PETITIONER:TIRUVENIBAI & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:SMT.  LILABAIDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/01/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  620		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 107 CITATOR INFO : D	    1975 SC1737	 (4)ACT:       Registration--Contract  to lease--Agreement not	creating  a       present and immediate demise--Whether requires registration-       " Agreement to lease ", Meaning of--Indian Registration Act,       1908 (16 of 1908), s. 2(7).HEADNOTE:A  document  purporting to be a receipt and bearing  a	fouranna  revenue  stamp  was executed by M	 in  favour  of	 therespondent  and	 recited, inter alia, as follows: "  I	havethis day given108to  you the land described below which is owned by me.	 Nowyou have become occupancy tenant of the same.  You may enjoythe same in any way you like from generation to	 generation.My estate and heirs or myself shall have absolutely no rightthereto.   You shall become the owner of the said land	fromdate 1-6-44.  I will have absolutely no right thereto  afterthe  said date......... The estate...... has been  given  toyou  in	 lieu of your Rs. 8,700 due to you, subject  to	 thecondition that in case your amount has not been paid to	 youon  date 1-6-44, You may fully enjoy the estate in  any	 wayyou  like  from generation to  generation."  The  respondentinstituted a suit against M for the specific performance  ofa contract to lease alleging that under the document he	 hadcontracted to lease to her in perpetuity in occupancy  righthis  lands in consideration of the debt of Rs. 8,7oo and  asthe  amount was not paid within the due date, he was  liableto  perform  and  give	effect	to  the	 said  contract.   Mcontended, inter alia, that the document was an agreement tolease  under S. 2(7) of the Indian Registration	 Act,  1908,and  that  as it was not registered it was  inadmissible  inevidence.Held, that an agreement to lease under S. 2(7) of the Regis-tration	 Act,  1908,  must be a document  which	 effects  anactual demise and operates as a lease.	An agreement betweentwo  parties which entitles one of them merely to claim	 theexecution of a lease from the other without creating a	pre-sent and immediate demise in his favour is not an  agreementto lease within the meaning of S. 2(7) of the Act.Held,  further,	 that on a construction of the	document  inquestion,  it  was not intended to, and did not,  effect  anactual	or  present demise in favour of the  respondent	 andconsequently it was not an agreement to leaseunders. 2(7) Ofthe   Act.   Accordingly,  the	document  did  not   requireregistration and was admissible in evidence.Hemanta Kumari Devi v. Midnapuy Zamindari Co., Ltd.,  (1919)L.R. 46 I.A. 240, relied on.Panchanan  Bose	 v. Chandya Charan Misra, (1910)  I.L.R,  37Cal. 808, approved.Narayanan Chetty v. Muthia Servai, (1912) I.L.R. 35 Mad. 63,Purmananddas  jiwandas	v. Dharsey Kirji, (1886)  I.L.R.  10Bom. 101, Balram v. Mahadeo, I.L.R. 1949 Nag. 849 and  Poolev. Bently, (1810) 12 East. 168; 104 E.R. 66, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 239 of 1955.Appeal from the Judgment and Decree dated the 30th November,1953,  of the former Nagpur High Court in First	 Appeal	 No.118  of 1947, arising out of the Judgment and  Decree  datedthe 12th August,1091947, of the Court of the Additional District Judge, Wardha,in Civil Suit No. 9-A of 1946.M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   J.	  B.Dadachanji,  S.	 N.  Andley  and  Rameshwar  Nath,  for	 theappellants.M.   Adhikari,	Advocate-General  for the  State  of  MadhyaPradesh and 1. N.  Shroff, for the respondent.1959.  January 21.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-This is an appeal by the widow, and	 theminor  son of Mangilal, defendant 1, and it has	 been  filedwith  a	 certificate  by the High  Court  of  Judicature  atNagpur.	  It  arises out of a suit filed by  the  respondentShrimati Lilabai w/o Vrijpalji, for the specific performanceof a contract to lease or in the alternative for damages andfor  a	declaration  against defendant 2,  the	daughter  ofdefendant 1 that she has no right, title or interest in	 theproperty in suit.  The respondent's case was that  defendantI  had	executed an instrument (Ex.  P-1) in favour  of	 therespondent  by	which he had contracted to lease to  her  inperpetuity  in	occupany  right	 his  four  khudkasht  landsadmeasuring  95.19  acres situated in Mouza  Mohammadpur  inconsideration  of the debt of Rs. 8,700.  According  to	 therespondent the instrument had provided that, if defendant  1did not repay to her the said debt on June 1, 1944, the saidcontract of lease would be operative on and from that  date.Defendant  1 did not repay the loan by the  stipulated	dateand  so he became liable to perform and give effect  to	 thesaid  contract	of lease on June 1,  1944.   The  respondentrepeatedly  called  upon  defendant 1 to  perform  the	saidcontract, but defendant I paid no heed to her demands and soshe  had to file the present suit for specific	performance.The  respondent had been and was still ready and willing  tospecifically  perform the agreement and to accept a deed  oflease for the lands in question in lieu of the said debt  ofRs.  8,700.  Defendant 1, however, had been guilty of  grossand  unreasonable delay in performing his part of  the	con-tract and that had caused the respondent the loss of110the  benefit of the lease and consequent damage.   On  theseallegations  the respondent claimed specific performance  ofthe  contract and an amount of Rs. 2,340 as compensation  orin the alternative damages amounting to Rs. 11,080.To this suit Mst.  Durgabai, the daughter of defendant I hadbeen  impleaded	 as defendant 2 on the ground that  she	 wassetting up her own title in respect of the lands in suit anda declaration was claimed against her that she had no right,title  or interest in the said lands.  Defendant 2  filed  awritten	 statement contesting the respondent's claim  for  adeclaration against her but she did not appear at the  trialwhich proceeded exparte against her.  In the result  defend-ant 1 was the only contesting defendant in the proceedings.Several	 pleas	were  raised  by  defendant  I	against	 therespondent's   claim.	 He  denied  the  receipt   of	 theconsideration  alleged	by  her	 and  he  pleaded  that	 thedocument (Ex.  P-1) was a bogus, sham and collusive documentwhich  had  been brought into existence for the	 purpose  ofshielding  his property from. his creditors and it  was	 notintended  to be acted upon.  It was also urged by  him	thatthe  said document, if held to be genuine, was an  agreementto  lease under s. 2(7) of the Indian Registration Act,	 andsince it was not registered it was inadmissible in evidence.The  learned trial judge framed appropriate issues on  thesepleadings  and	found against defendant I on  all  of  them.Accordingly  a	decree was passed ordering  defendant  1  toexecute	 a lease-deed in respect of the fields mentioned  inthe  plaint  on a proper stamp paper in occupancy  right  infavour	of  the respondent and to put her in  possession  ofthem.	A  decree  for the payment of Rs. 2,316	 by  way  ofcompensation  was also passed against him.  The	 declarationclaimed	 by  respondent	 against defendant  2  was  likewisegranted.This  decree  was challenged by defendant 1  by	 his  appealbefore the High Court of Judicature at Nagpur.	Pending	 theappeal defendant I died and his widow and his minor son cameon the record as his111legal  representatives and prosecuted the said appeal.	 TheHigh   Court  held  that  the  document	 was  supported	  byconsideration,	that it was not an agreement to lease  unders. 2(7) of the Indian Registration Act and therefore it	 didnot require registration and was admissible in evidence.  Inthe  result  the  decree  passed  by  the  trial  court	 wasconfirmed and defendant 1's appeal was dismissed.The  present appellants then applied to the High  Court	 forleave  to  appeal to this Court and the High  Court  grantedleave  because it held that the basic question	involved  inthe decision of the appeal was the legal effect of Ex.	 P-1and  that  the	construction  of  a  document  of  title  isgenerally regarded as a substantial question of law.  It  iswith  this  certificate	 that the present  appeal  has	comebefore	this  Court,  and it raises two	 questions  for	 ourdecision:  Is the document (Ex.	 P-1) an agreement to  leaseunder s. 2(7): If not, does it require registration under s.17  of the said Act ? All other issues which  arose  betweenthe parties in the courts below are concluded by  concurrentfindings and they have not been raised before us.Before	dealing	 with these points, we must  first  considerwhat the expression " an agreement to lease " means under s.2(7) of the Indian Registration Act, hereinafter referred toas  the Act.  Section 2(7) provides that a lease includes  acounterpart,  kabuliyat,  an undertaking  to  cultivate	 andoccupy and an agreement to lease.  In Hemanta Kumari Debi v.Midnapur  Zamindari Co. Ltd. (1) the Privy Council has	heldthat  " an agreement to lease, which a lease is by the	sta-tute  declared to include, must be a document which  effectsan actual demise and operates as a lease ". In other  words,an agreement between two parties which entitles one of	themmerely	to  claim the execution of a lease  from  the  otherwithout	 creating  a  present and immediate  demise  in	 hisfavour	is not included under s. 2, sub-s. (7).	 In  HemantaKumari	Debi's case (1) a petition setting out the terms  ofan agreement in compromise of a suit stated as one of the(1)  (1919) L. R. 46 1. A. 240.112terms  that  the plaintiff agreed that if she  succeeded  inanother suit which she had brought to recover certain  land,other  than that to which the compromised suit related,	 shewould  grant  to the defendants a lease of  that  land	uponspecified  terms.  The petition was recited in full  in	 thedecree	made  in  the compromised suit under s. 375  of	 theCode of Civil Procedure, 1882.	A subsequent suit was  brou-ght  for specific performance of the said agreement  and  itwas  resisted on the ground that the agreement	in  questionwas an agreement to lease under S. 2(7) and since it was notregistered  it was inadmissible in evidence.  This plea	 wasrejected  by  the  Privy  Council on  the  ground  that	 thedocument did not effect an actual demise and was outside theprovisions of s. 2(7).	In coming to the conclusion that theagreement to lease under the said section must be a documentwhich  effects	an  actual  demise  the	 Privy	Council	 hasexpressly 'approved the observations made by Jenkins, C. J.,in the case of Panchanan Bose v. Chandra Charan Misra (1) inregard	to  the	 construction  of s. 17	 of  the  Act.	 Thedocument  with	which the Privy Council	 was  concerned	 wasconstrued  by it as " an agreement that, upon the  happeningof a contingent event at a date which was indeterminate and,having	regard	to the slow progress of	 Indian	 litigation,might be-far distant, a lease would be granted "; and it washeld  that  "  until the happening of  that  event,  it	 wasimpossible to -determine whether there would be any lease ornot ". This decision makes it clear that the meaning of	 theexpression " an agreement to lease " " which, in the contextwhere  it  occurs and in the statute in which it  is  found,must  relate  to some document that creates  a	present	 andimmediate  interest in the land ". Ever since this  decisionwas  pronounced	 by  the  Privy	 Council  the  expression  "agreement to lease " has been consistently construed by	 allthe  Indian  High Courts as an agreement  which	 creates  animmediate  and a present demise in the property	 covered  byit.It would be relevant now to refer to the observations(1)  (1910) I.L.R. 37 Cal. 808.113of  Jenkins, C. J., in the case of Panchanan Bose  (1).	  Inthat  case,  a solehnama by which no immediate	interest  inimmoveable property was created was held not to amount to  alease within the meaning of cl. (d) of s. 17 of the Act	 butmerely	an agreement to create a lease on a future  day.   "Such a document ", it was observed, " fell within cl. (h) ofs.  17	and   as such  was  admissible	in  evidence withoutregistration  ".  Jenkins,  C. J., held	 that  "  on  a-fairreading of the document, no immediate interest was  created,there was no present demise, and the document was merely  anagreement  to create a lease on a future day, the  terms  ofwhich  were  to	 be defined by documents  to  be  thereafterexecuted  ". " This being so ", said the learned C. J., "  Ithink the appellants I-rave rightly contended before us thatthe  document was admissible in evidence as it falls  withincl.  (h)  of s. 17 of the Indian Registration  Act  ".	Thisdecision  would	 show  that an agreement  which	 creates  noimmediate  or  present demise was not deemed to be  a  leaseunder s. 2(7) and so it was hold to fall within s. 17(h)  ofthe Act and this view has been specifically affirmed by	 thePrivy Council in Hemanta Kumari Debi's case (2).It is true that in Narayanan Chetty v. Muthiah Servai (3)  aFull  Beach  of	 the  Madras High Court	 had  held  that  anagreement to execute a sub-lease and to get it registered ata  future  date	 was  a lease -within s.  3  of	 the  IndianRegistration Act of 1877 (III of 1877) and was	compulsorilyregistrable  under el. (d) of s. 17.  Such an  agreement  togrant  a  lease which requires registration,  it  was  held,affects	 immoveable  property  and  cannot  be	received  inevidence in a suit for specific performance of an agreement.The question which was referred to the Full Bench apparentlyassumed that the agreement in question required registrationand  the point on which the decision of the Full  Bench	 wassought for was whether such an agreement can be received  inevidence  in  a	 suit for  specific  performance  (1)  wherepossession  is given in pursuance of an agreement,  and	 (2)where it is not; and the Full Bench(1)  [1910]  I.L. R. 37 Cal. 808.  (2) [1919] L.R.  46	I.A.240.(3)  (1912) I.L.R. 35 Mad. 63.15114answered  this question in the negative.  " An agreement  tolease ", it was observed in the judgment of the Full  Bench,"  is expressly included in the definition of the  lease  inthe  Registration Act while it cannot be suggested  that  anagreement to sell falls within any definition of sale ".  Itis  clear that the question about  the construction  of	 thewords  "  agreement to lease " was not	specifically  arguedbefore the Full Bench, and the main point considered was theeffect	of  the	 provisions of s. 49 of the  Act.   In	thatconnection the argument had centred round the effect of	 theprovisions  of cl. (h) of s. 17 of the Registration Act	 ands. 54 of the Transfer of Property Act.	The Full Bench	tookthe view that in enacting s. 49 of -the Act the	 Legislaturemeant to indicate that the instrument should not be receivedin  evidence even where the transaction sought to be  proveddid  not  amount  to a transfer of  interest  in  immoveableproperty  but  only created an. obligation to  transfer	 theproperty.  A contract to sell immovable property in writing,though	it  may	 affect	 the  property	without	 passing  aninterest in it, is exempted from registration by clause	 (h)(now cl. 2 (v)) of section 17 but an agreement in writing tolet, falling within cl. (d) of s. 17, is not.  That is	why,according  to  the Full Bench, such an agreement  cannot  bereceived  in evidence of the transaction which	affects	 theimmovable  property comprised therein.	Thus  this  decisiondoes not directly or materially assist us in construing	 theexpression " agreement to lease ".Besides,  the  said decision has not been  followed  by	 theMadras	High  Court  in	 Swaminatha  Mudaliar  v.  RamaswamiMudaliar (1) on the ground that it can no longer be regardedas good law in view of the decision of the Privy Council  inHemanta	 Kumari	 Debi's	 case(2), and, as  we  have  alreadypointed	 out,  all  the	 other High  Courts  in	 India	haveconsistently followed the said Privy Council decision.The learned Attorney-General has, however, contended  beforeus that the correctness of the decision of the Privy Councilin  Hemanta Kumari Debi's case (2) is open to doubt and	 -hehas suggested that we(1) (1921) I.L.R. 44 Mad. 399.(2) (1919) L.R. 46 I A. 240.115should re-examine the point on the merits afresh.  We do notthink there is any substance in this contention because,  ifwe  may	 say so with respect, the view taken  by  the  PrivyCouncil in the said case is perfectly right.  Section  17(1)of  the	 Act deals with documents of which  registration  iscompulsory.  It is obvious that the documents falling  undercls.  (a), (b), (c) and (e) of sb-s. (I') are all  documentswhich  create an immediate and present demise  in  immovableproperties   mentioned	therein.   The	 learned   Attorney-General's  argument is that cl. (d) which deals with  leasesdoes  not  import any such limitation because it  refers  toleases	of  immoveable properties from year to year  or	 anyterm exceeding one year or reserving a yearly rent; and	 theAct  deliberately gives an inclusive definition of the	term'lease'	 in s. 2(7).  This argument, however, fails to	takeinto  account  the relevant provisions of the  Transfer'  ofProperty  Act.	Section 4 of the said Act provides  that  s.54,  paragraphs	 2 and 3, 59, 107 and 123 shall be  read  assupplemental to the Indian Registration Act, 1908.   Section107 is material for our purpose.  Under this section a leaseof  immoveable	property from year to year or for  any	termexceeding  one year or reserving a yearly rent can  be	madeonly under a registered instrument.  This section also	laysdown that where a lease of immoveable property is made by  aregistered instrument, such instrument, or, where there	 aremore  instruments  than	 one,  each  instrument,  shall	  beexecuted  by  both the lessor and the lessee.  It  would  benoticed that if s. 107 has to be read as supplemental to theAct,  the definition of the word I lease' prescribed  by  s.105 would inevitably become relevant and material; and thereis no doubt that under s. 105 a lease of immoveable propertyis  a transfer of right to enjoy such property made  in	 themanner	specified in the said section.	Therefore, it  wouldnot  be right to assume that leases mentioned in cl. (d)  ofs.  17, sub-s. (1), would cover cases of documents which  donot  involve a present and immediate transfer  of  leaseholdrights.	 It would thus be reasonable to hold that, like	 theinstruments mentioned in cls. (a), (b) and (c) of s.  17(1),leases also are instruments116which transfer leasehold rights in the property	 immediatelyand   in  presenti.   We  have	already	 referred   to	 therequirement of s. 107 of the Transfer of Property Act that alease  must be executed both by the lessor and	the  lessee.It  may be pertinent to point out that an instrument  signedby  the lessor alone which  may not be a lease under s.	 107may  operate as an agreement to lease under s. 2(7)  of	 theAct.The legislative history of the provisions of s. 17(2)(v) mayperhaps	 be of some assistance in this connection.   Section17(h) of Act III of 1877 which -,corresponds to the  presents. 17(2) (v) did not appear in the earlier Registration Actsof 1864,1866 and 1871.	Its introduction in Act III of	1877became	necessary as a result of the decision of  the  PrivyCouncil	 in  Fati Chand Sahu v. Lilambar Singh	Das  (1)  inwhich  it  was	held that an agreement	to  sell  immoveableproperty  for Rs. 22,500 coupled with an  acknowledgment  of-the  receipt of Rs. 7,500 and a promise to execute a  sale-deed  on  the  payment	of  the	 balance  was	compulsorilyregistrable  under s. 17 of the Act (2).  Section 17(h)	 wastherefore  enacted in 1877 to make it clear that a  documentwhich  does not itself create an interest in the  immoveableproperty does not require registration even if it  expresslycontemplates and promises the creation of that interest by asubsequent  document; in other words, contracts of sale	 andpurchase  of  which specific performance  would	 be  grantedunder  certain circumstances fall within this provision	 andwould  no  longer be governed by the said  decision  of	 thePrivy  Council	in the case of Fati Chand Sahu	v.  LilambarSingh  Das (1).	 Thus the policy of the Legislature  clearlyis to exclude from the application of cls. (b) and (c) of s.17(1) agreements of the said character.	 On principle, thereis  no	difference  between  such  agreements  of  sale	  orpurchase-  and agreements to lease.  Under both	 classes  ofdocuments no present or immediate demise is made though bothof  them  may  lead to a successful  claim  for	 a  specificperformance.  That is why the Privy Council observed in the(1) (1871) 9 Beng. L. R. 433; 14 M. L. A. 129.(2) Act XX of 1866.117case  of  Hemanta Kumari Debi (1) that the context  and	 thescheme	of the statute justified the view taken by  Jenkins,C. J., in the case of Panchanan Bose (2).It  may	 also  be relevant to bear in mind  that  the  otherdocuments which are included within the word I lease' by  s.2(7) of the Act support the same conclusion.  A counterpart,as it is usually understood, is a writing by which a  tenantagrees to. pay a specified rent for the property let to	 himand  signed  -by him alone.  It is thus in the nature  of  acounterpart of a lease and as such it is included within themeaning	 of  the word I lease' under s. 2(7).  Same  is	 theposition  of a kabuliyat and an undertaking to cultivate  oroccupy.	  In  other  words, it is clear that  all  the	fourinstruments  which,  under the inclusive  definition  of  s.2(7),  are treated as leases satisfy the test  of  immediateand  present  demise in respect of the	immoveable  propertycovered	 by  them.   We	 must,	therefore,  hold  that	 theexpression  "  an  agreement to lease  "  covers  only	suchagreements as create a present demise.Let  us now proceed to deal with the question as to  whetherthe document (Ex.  P-1) constitutes " an agreement to  lease"It  purports  to  be a receipt executed in  favour  of	 therespondent  by	defendant  I and bear a	 four  anna  revenuestamp." I have this day giver to you ", says the document, "the land described below which is owned by me.	Now you havebecome occupancy tenant of the same.  You may enjoy the samein  any	 way  you like from generation	to  generation.	  Myestate	and heirs or myself shall have absolutely  no  rightthereto.   You shall become the owner of the said land	fromdate 1-6-1944. 1 will have absolutely no right thereto afterthe  said date ". The the document proceeds to	mention	 theproperties  and describes them in detail, and it adds "	 allthe above fields are situate at Mouza Mohammadpur, mouz	 No.312,  tahsil  Arvi, district Wardha.   The  estat  describedabove has been given to you in lieu of you Rs. 8,700 due  toyou, subject to the condition that case your amount has	 notbeen  paid to you on date 1-6-1944, you may fully enjoy	 theestate describe,(1) (1919) L.R. 46 I.A. 240.(2) (1910) I.L.R. 37 Cal. 808.118above  in any way you like from generation to generation  ".The question for our decision is: Does this document  amountto an agreement to lease under s.  2(7) of the Act ?In construing this document it is necessary to remember thatit has been executed by laymen without legal assistance, andso  it	must  be liberally  construed  without	recourse  totechnical  considerations.   The heading  of  the  document,though	relevant, would not determine its character.  It  istrue  that  an agreement would operate as a  present  demisealthough its terms may commence at a future date.  Similarlyit  may amount to a present demise even though	parties	 maycontemplate to execute a more formal document in future.  Inconsidering  the  effect  of the document  we  must  enquirewhether	 it contains unqualified and unconditional words  ofpresent demise and includes the essential terms of a  lease.Generally  if rent is made payable under an  agreement	fromthe date of its execution or other specified date, it may besaid  to create a present demise.  Another relevant test  isthe intention to deliver possession.  If possession is givenunder an agreement and other terms of tenancy have been	 setout,  then the agreement can be taken to be an agreement  tolease.	As in the construction of other documents, so in theconstruction of an agreement to lease, regard must be had toall the relevant and material terms; and an attempt must  bemade to reconcile the relevant terms if possible and not  totreat any of them as idle surplusage.The learned Attorney-General contends that this document  isnot a contingent grant of lease at all.	 According to him itevidences a grant of -lease subject to a condition and	thatshows  that a present demise is itended by the parties.	  Henaturally relies upon the opening recitals of the  document.According  to him, when the document says that	defendant  Ihas  given  to the respondent the land described  below	 andthat the respondent has become occupancy tenant of the same,it  amounts  to a clear term of present demise.	  A  similarrecital	 is  repeated -in the latter part  of  the  documentwhere it is stated that the estate described119above has been given to the respondent in lieu of Rs.  8,700due  to	 her.  In our opinion, it would be  unreasonable  toconstrue these recitals by themselves, apart from, the otherrecitals in the document.  We cannot lose sight of the	factthat the document expressly states that the respondent shallbecome	the  owner  of	the  land  from	 1-6-1944  and	thatdefendant  I' would have no title over it after	 that  date.This  recital  also is repeated in the latter  part  of	 thedocument;  and it makes the intention of the  parties  clearthat  it  is  only if the amount of debt  is  not  rapid  bydefendant I on the date specified that the agreement was  tocome into force.  In other words, reading the document as  awhole  it  would  be difficult to spell	 out  a	 present  orimmediate  demise of the occupancy rights in favour  of	 therespondent.   In this connection the fact that the  documentis  described as a receipt may to some extent  be  relevant.It  is clear that by executing this document  the  defendantwanted	 to  comply  with  the	respondent's   request	 foracknowledging  the  receipt of the amount coupled  with	 thepromise	 that the amount would be repaid on  1-6-1944.	 Thedefendant also wanted to comply with the respondent's demandthat,  if  the amount was not repaid on the  said  date,  hewould  convey  the  occupancy rights in his  lands  to	her.Besides, it is significant that the document does not  referto the payment of rent and does not contemplate the deliveryof possession until 1-6-1944.  If the document had  intendedto convey immediately the occupancy rights to the respondentit  would  undoubtedly	have referred  to  the	delivery  ofpossession  and	 specified the rate at which, and  the	datefrom  which..  the rent had to be paid to  her.	  The  stamppurchased   for	  the  execution  of   the   document	alsoincidentally  shows that the document was intended to  be  areceipt	 and  nothing  more.   Under s.	 2  of	the  CentralProvinces  Land	 Revenue Act, 1917 (C.	P. II  of  1917)  anagricultural year commences on the first day of June and  itis from this date that the agreement would have taken effectif defendant I had not repaid the debt by then.	 It is clearthat the respondent was not intended to be treated as an120occupancy  tenant between the date of the document and	June1, 1944.  During that period the agreement did not come intooperation at all.  In other words, it is on the	 contingencyof defendant's failure to repay the amount on June 1,  1944,that  the agreement was to take effect.	 We  have  carefullyconsidered  the	 material terms of the document and  we	 aresatisfied  that it was not intended to, and did not,  effectan actual or present demise in favour of the respondent.  Inour opinion, therefore, the High Court was right in  holdingthat  the  document was not an agreement to lease  under  s.2(7) of the Act and so did not require registration.We would now briefly refer to some of the decisions on whichthe  learned  Attorney-General	relied	in  support  of	 hisconstruction  of the document.	In Purmananddas Jiwandas  v.Dharsey	 Virji	(1), the agreement between the	parties	 hadexpressly  provided  that  the	lease  in  question  was  tocommence  from	October 1, 1882, though	 the  agreement	 wasexecuted  seven	 days later, that the rent was	to  commencefrom  that day and the rent then due was to be paid  by	 thenext  day.  It is in the light of these specific terms	thatthe  Bombay High Court held that the relevant words  in	 thedocument  operated  as	an actual  demise.   None  of  theseconditions  is	present in the document with  which  we	 areconcerned.Similarly  in  Pool  v. Bentley (2), by	 the  instrument  inquestion, Poole had agreed to let unto Bentley, and  Bentleyhad agreed to take, all that piece of land described for theterm  of 61 years at the yearly rent of pound 120  free	 andclear of all taxes, the said rent to be paid quarterly,	 thefirst  quarter's rent within 15 days after Michaelmas  1807,and  that in consideration of the lease, Bentley had  agreedwithin the space of four years to expend and lay out in 5 ormore  houses of a third-rate or class of building  2000	 andPoole had agreed to grant a lease or leases of the said landand  premises as soon as the said 5 houses were covered	 in.In dealing with the construction of this document Lord(1)  (1886) I.L.R. 10 Bom. 101.(2)  (1810) 12 East. 168; 104 E.R. 66.121Ellenborough, C. J., observed that the rule to be  collectedfrom  the relevant decisions cited before him was  that	 theintention  of the parties as described by the words  of	 theinstrument  must  govern  the  construction  and  that	 theintention of the parties to the document before him appearedto be that the tenant, who was to have spent so much capitalupon  the premises within the first four years of the  term,should	have a present legal interest in the term which	 wasto  be	binding	 upon both  parties;  though,  when  certainprogress  was made in the building, a more formal  lease  orleases might be executed.- This decision only shows that  ifthe intention is to effect a present demise the fact that  afurther formal document is contemplated by the parties wouldnot detract from the said intention.  It would, however,  benoticed	  that	the  document  in  that	 case  contained   astipulation  for the payment of the rent and the tenant	 wasto be let into possession immediately.	This case also	doesnot assist the appellant.In  Satyadhyantirtha  Swami  v.	  Raghunath  Daji  (1)	 thecontract  of  lease  was contained in  two  documents  whichshowed	that the lands were being cultivated by	 Appaji	 andRavji who had signed the first document. and that they	wereauthorised to continue ' in occupation of the lands on termsmentioned  in the first document.  The argument that a	partof  the	 agreement would not come into operation  till	someyears  later,  it  was held, did not  operate  to  make	 thedocument  other than a present demise.	It is  difficult  toappreciate how this decision can assist us in construing thepresent document.In  Balram v. Mahadeo (2) the Nagpur High Court was  dealingwith  an instrument which purported to be a receipt and	 theterms  of  which seemed to contemplate the  execution  of  asale-deed in respect of the properties covered by it.	Evenso, the material clause was that "I it is agreed to give  toyou both the above fields in occupancy rights ". It was heldthat,  on a fair and reasonable construction,  the  documentwas(1)  A.I.R. 1926 Bom. 384.(2) I.L.R. 1949 Nag. 849.16122intended  to  affect a transfer of the	occupancy  right  inpresenti  and was as such an agreement to lease.  No  doubt,as  observed  by Bose, J., " on a superficial  view  of	 thedocument  it would not appear to be an agreement  to  lease.But in construing a transaction one has to look beneath	 theverbiage  and ascertain what are the real rights  which	 arebeing transferred.  When that is done, we consider that thisdocument  is an agreement to lease despite the fact that  itcalls itself a receipt and speaks throughout of a sale ". Itis unnecessary to consider the merits of the conclusion rea-ched  by  the Nagpur High Court in this case.  It  would  beenough	to say that the said decision would not	 afford	 anyassistance in construing the document before us.  Besides itis  obvious that in construing documents, the usefulness  ofthe precedents is usually of a limited character; after	 allcourts	have to consider the material and relevant terms  ofthe  document with which they are concerned; and it is on  afair and reasonable construction of the said terms that	 thenature and character of the transaction evidenced by it	 hasto be determined.  In our opinion, the High Court was  rightin  holding  that  the	instrument (Ex.	  P-1)	was  not  anagreement to lease under s. 2(7) of the Act.The  result is the appeal fails and must be  dismissed	withcosts.			 Appeal dismissed.123