PETITIONER:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, NAGPUR	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAI BAHADUR JAIRAM VALJI AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/10/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  291		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 110 CITATOR INFO : E&D	    1959 SC 814	 (24,52,54) R	    1959 SC1352	 (8) RF	    1961 SC1579	 (30,31,34) RF	    1964 SC 758	 (12) RF	    1965 SC  65	 (5,31,33) R	    1971 SC1590	 (9) R	    1972 SC 386	 (12) R	    1973 SC 515	 (9) R	    1973 SC1011	 (15,20) D	    1987 SC 500	 (36) RF	    1992 SC1495	 (31)ACT:       Income  Tax-Capital  or	Revenue	 receipt-Compensation	for       premature  termination of contract-Whether  trading  receipt       -Liability to tax-lndian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922).HEADNOTE:The respondent had been carrying on business in the  produc-tion  and  supply  of limestone since  1920,  and  under  anagreement  entered  into with the Bengal  Iron	Company	 wassupplying  all its requirements of limestone  and  dolomite.Sometime  later the Indian Iron and Steel Company took	overall  the  assets  and liabilities  of  the  former  company.Subsequently   differences   having   arisen   between	 therespondent  and	 the  Indian Iron  and	Steel  Company	theyentered	 into an agreement on May 9, 1940, in settlement  ofall  the  disputes  between them whereby,  inter  alia,	 therespondent was to work a quarry of the company for a  periodOf  25 years and to supply the limestone quarried  therefromto the company according to its requirements and to get fromthe  railway  authorities facilities  for  transporting	 thelimestone  more	 economically; and it was agreed  that	tillsuch  facilities were given, the respondent was to  be	paidRs. 4000/- every month.	 Under the agreement the  respondenthad  the right to work other quarries of his own and  supplylimestone  so  quarried to other  purchasers.	The  railwayauthorities  having declined to grant facilities, it  becameimpossible  to	carry  out  the	 agreement  in	the   mannercontemplated by the parties, who, thereupon, entered into  afresh agreement on August 2, 1941, terminating111the  agreement	dated May 9, 1940, on  certain	terms.	 Theagreement  provided inter alia (1) that the  Company  shouldpay " Rs. 2,50,000/- to the sellers as solatium besides	 themonthly	 instalments of Rs. 4000/-", remaining unpaid  underthe contract dated May 9, 1940, (2) that the company  shouldpurchase  limestone from the respondent for a period  of  12years,	and (3) that the respondent was to be appointed	 theloading contractors of the Company for loading iron ore.  Ona  question as to whether the the sum of Rs. 2,50,000/-	 wasliable	to  tax,  the respondent claimed that  it  was	not,'being a capital receipt but the income-tax authorities heldthat  it was a trading receipt and was income chargeable  totax.   The High Court however held on a reference  under  s.66(1), that the income was not chargeable to tax, and  hencethe  present appeal.  In support of the appeal, the  respon-dent contended inter alia that (1) the contract dated May 9,1940,  was  for a period of 25 years of which more  than  23years had still to run at the time of the settlement, and itwas therefore an asset of an enduring character, capital  incharacter, and the compensation paid therefor was a  capitalreceipt,  and (2) that the true character of  the  agreementwas  that  it brought into existence  an  arrangement  whichwould  enable the respondent to carry on a business and	 wasnot  itself  any  business, and any  payment  made  for	 thetermination of such an agreement was a capital receipt.Held, that the contract of May 9, 1940, was entered into  bythe  respondent in the ordinary course of his  business	 andthat  the sum of Rs. 2,50,000/- which was paid	as  solatiumfor the cancellation of that contract, was a revenue receiptand was chargeable to tax.There  is a distinction between a contract entered  into  inthe usual course of business and an agency contract.   Whileit  may	 be  possible  to regard  the  latter  as  merely  aframework  for	doing business, the former  constitutes	 thebusiness  itself, and, therefore, compensation paid for	 thetermination  of the former kind of contract must be held  tobe revenue, whereas compensation paid for the termination ofthe latter might be capital in character.It would make no difference in the character of the receipt,when  it  is  compensation for	cancellation  of  a  tradingcontract, whether its performance is to consist of a  singleact or a series of acts spread over a period.Case law reviewed.Van   Den   Berghs   Ltd.  v.  Clark,	[1935]	 A.C.	431,distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 109 of 1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril  21,  1950, of the former Nagpur High Court  in  Misc.Civil Case No. 135 of 1949.112R.   Ganapathy Iyer and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.Radhavinod  Pal,  J.  M. Thakar and I. N.  Shroff,  for	 therespondents.1958.  October 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byVENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-This is an appeal against the  judgmentof the High Court of Nagpur in a reference under s. 66(1) ofthe Indian Income-tax Act (XI of 1922), hereinafter referredto  as	the  Act,  and the point  that	is  raised  for	 ourdetermination  is whether a sum of Rs. 2,50,000 received  bythe  respondent on August 2, 1941, is chargeable to  income-tax.   While,  according to the Department,  the  amount  inquestion  is a revenue receipt liable to be included in	 thechargeable income, according to the respondent it is capitalreceipt	 not  liable to tax.  The Appellate  Tribunal  held,affirming  the decisions of the Income-tax Officer  and	 theAppellate   Assistant  Commissioner,  that  the	 amount	  inquestion was a trading receipt, and was income liable to  beassessed.  On the application of the respondent, it referredthe following question for the decision of the High Court:"  Whether in the circumstances of the case the sum  of	 Rs.2,50,000 received by the assessee as damages or compensationfor  the  premature termination of the contract of  9th	 May1940  is income assessable within the meaning of the  IndianIncome-tax Act."The  reference	was  heard by Sen and Deo,  JJ.,  who  held,disagreeing with the Tribunal, that the sum of Rs.  2,50,000was  a capital receipt in the hands of the  respondent,	 andthat  it,  was not liable to be taxed.	The  appellant	thenfiled  an  application under s. 66(A)(2) of the	 Act  for  acertificate to appeal to this Court, but that was dismissed,the  learned judges holding that the law on the subject	 waswell  settled.	 The appellant thereafter  applied  to	thisCourt  for  special leave under Art. 136, and the  same	 wasgranted, and hence this appeal.113The  question  whether a receipt is capital  or	 income	 hasfrequently  come  up for determination	before	the  courts.Various	 rules have been enunciated as furnishing a  key  tothe  solution of the question, but as often observed by	 thehighest	 authorities,  it is not possible to  lay  down	 anysingle	test  as  infallible  or  any  single  criterion  asdecisive  in the determination of the question,	 which	mustultimately  depend on the facts of the particular case,	 andthe authorities bearing on the question are valuable only asindicating the matters that have to be taken into account inreaching a decision.  Vide Van Den Berghs Ltd. v. Clark (1).That,  however,	 is not to say that the question is  one  offact, for, as observed in Davies (H.  M. Inspector of Taxes)v.  The	 Shell Company of China Ltd. (2) "  these  questionsbetween	 capital  and income, trading profit or	 no  tradingprofit, are questions which, though they may depend no doubtto a very great extent on the particular facts of each case,do involve a conclusion of law to be drawn from those  facts".  Vide  also	the observations of Lord Greene,  M.  R.  inRustproof Metal Window Co., Ltd. v. Commissioners of  InlandRevenue (3).  That being so, we must first examine the factsof  the	 present -case, and then consider whether  on  thosefacts and in the light of the applicable principles, the sumof Rs. 2,50,000 received by the respondent is a capital or arevenue receipt.The respondent is a businessman whose trading activities runin several channels.  He is a railway contractor; he runs  arice mill and a sugar factory; he is a supplier Of limestoneand dolomite.  It is with the last of these businesses	thatwe  are concerned in these proceedings.	 The respondent	 hadacquired  a quarry at Paraghat and had been himself  workingit  and	 selling  limestone quarried out  of  it  to,  amongothers,	 a Company called the Bengal Iron Company, Ltd.	  OnJanuary 5, 1935, the said Company entered into an  agreementwith the respondent for the purchase of all its requirementsof limestone and dolomite from(1) [1935] A.C. 431.	    (2) (1951) 32 Tax Cas. 133 151.(3)  (1947) 29 Tax Cas. 243, 266.15114the latter at rates specified therein, and these rates	weresubsequently  modified	by  another  agreement	between	 theparties	 dated December 21, 1935.  In 1936 the Company	wentinto liquidation, and its assets and liabilities were  takenover  by  another Company called the Indian Iron  and  SteelCompany, Ltd. under a scheme of amalgamation dated September8,  1936.  This Company continued to purchase limestone	 anddolomite  from the respondent for some time, but  later	 on,finding that the rates were uneconomic owing to increase  inthe railway freight, it decided to purchase its requirementsfrom  other  sources,  and by notice  dated  May  29,  1939,informed   the	respondent  accordingly.    Thereupon,	 therespondent  filed Suit No. 211 of 1940 in the High Court  ofCalcutta  for  specific performance of	the  contract  datedJanuary	 5, 1935, as modified on December 21, 1935, and	 foran injunction restraining the Indian Iron and Steel Company,Ltd.  from purchasing limestone or dolomite from any  personother  than  the  plaintiff,  and  on  March  13,  1940,  aninjunction  in those terms was actually issued	against	 theCompany.Thereafter,  the Company and the respondent entered into  anagreement  in settlement of all the disputes  between  them,and  the same was embodied in a document dated May 9,  1940.As it is this document that forms the source for the paymentof Rs. 2,50,000 to the respondent, it is necessary to  referto the terms thereof in some detail.  Under this  agreement,the  respondent	 was to work a quarry of the  Company  at  aplace called Gangapur for a period of 25 years and to supplythe limestone quarried therefrom to the Company according toits  requirements.   This quarry, it should be	stated,	 wassituated  near	Kulti  where  the  Company  carried  on	 itssmelting  operations,  and  obviously it  would	 reduce	 theworking	 expenses, if limestone required therefor  could  begot  from Gangapur.  There were, however, no  facilities  inGangapur railway station for transporting the goods from thequarry,	 and so it was arranged that the authorities  shouldbe  moved for permission to construct a siding at  Gangapur,and that the cost thereof should be borne115by  the	 Company.   It was expected that it  would  take  18months	before	the siding could be completed,	and  it	 wasagreed that during that period the respondent was to be paidRs. 4,000 every month.	Thereafter, the respondent was to bepaid  at  the rate of Rs. 2-9-0 per ton of  limestone  whichmight be loaded in the railway wagons to be arranged for  bythe Company.  The working of the quarry was left entirely inthe hands of the respondent.  It was he that was to purchasethe  machinery and the appliances necessary  for  quarrying.He  was	 to  engage  his own workmen  and  put	up  all	 therequisite  superstructures.  After the limestone was  raisedfrom  the  quarry,  he was to get it  cleaned  and  Tenderedmerchantable,  and  it was thereafter to be  loaded  in	 thewagon.	 There	are two clauses in the	agreement  to  whichreference might be made.  Under cl. 6, the respondent agreed"  to  supply  to  the	Company	 such  other  quantities  oflimestone,  if any, as the Company may order  besides  Kultirequirements ". Clause 13 of the agreement enjoined that therespondent was not to engage, during the subsistence of	 theagreement, in any other contract business for the working ofany  quarry  within an area of 20 miles from  the  Company'squarry,	 but  this  was	 subject to  the  proviso  that	 therespondent was free to work any quarry belonging to and heldby him.To  continue the narration, the railway authorities did	 notagree  to  the construction at Gangapur of a  siding  and  aloopline to the quarry, and so it became impossible to carryout the agreement in the manner contemplated by the parties.It is in this situation that the parties came together,	 andon  August  2,1941, entered into a new agreement and  it  iswith  this  that we are directly concerned in  this  appeal.The agreement recites that the Company feeling difficulty inworking their mines referred to in the contract dated May 9,1940,  made a proposal for termination of the said  contracton certain terms, and that was agreed to.  The terms of	 theagreement are (1) that the Company should pay " Rs. 2,50,000to  the sellers as solatium besides the monthly	 instalmentsof  Rs. 4,000 ", remaining unpaid under the  contract  datedMay 9, 1940; (2)116that the Company should take all the limestone required	 forits furnaces at Kulti from the respondent for a period of 12years  on terms and conditions set out in an agreement;	 (3)that  the  respondent  was  to	be  appointed  the   loadingcontractors  of	 the  Company for loading all  iron  ore  atMonoharpore  for a period of 12 years from January 1,  1942,on  the	 terms	and  conditions	 specified  in	a   separateagreement.   Pursuant to this agreement, the respondent	 waspaid  a sum of Rs. 2,50,000 and the two agreements  relatingto the purchase of limestone and the loading of iron ore  atMonoharpore were also executed.	 The balance due on  accountof monthly payment of Rs. 4,000 provided in the agreement ofMay  9, 1940, was also duly paid.  Now, on these facts,	 thequestion is whether the sum of Rs. 2,50,000 received by	 therespondent was capital or revenue.Before discussing the principles applicable to the facts  asstated	above,	it is necessary to deal	 with  a  contentionraised on the facts of the case on behalf of the respondent.Dr. Radha Binode Pal, who appeared for him, argued that	 forthe  purpose of carrying out the agreement dated January  5,1935, the respondent had executed works of a capital  naturesuch  as construction of quarters, tenements and  the  like,and  had  incurred expenses exceeding Rs. 4 lakhs  -on	thataccount,  that	all this had to be thrown away when  the  ifquarry	at Paraghat had to be abandoned, and the sum of	 Rs.2,50,000  was really a reimbursement of the amount spent  byhim as above and was therefore a respondent, the position inlaw  would  no doubt be as contended for by him.   But	havethose  facts been established ? In his statement before	 theIncome-tax  Officer, the respondent merely stated  that	 theamount	in  question  was  paid	 as  consideration  for	 thetermination of the contract of 1935 and not of 1940, and  itis  pointed out by the Tribunal that the respondent did	 notsubstantiate  even this assertion.  There was no  allegationthat capital expenses had been incurred in the execution  ofthe  contract of 1935, and that the amount in  question	 waspaid as compensation therefor;117nor  is there any evidence on that question.  In deed,	whenit  is	remembered  that the quarry  at	 Paraghat  had	beenabandoned before the contract dated May 9, 1940, was enteredinto,  it  is difficult to imagine how any  amount  paid  ascompensation for the cancellation of that contract can	haveany connection with expenses incurred with reference to thatquarry.	  We must hold that the sum of Rs. 2,50,000 was	 notpaid as compensation for expenses thrown away and cannot  beheld to be a capital receipt on that account.Now,  the contention on behalf of the appellant is that	 thecontract  dated	 May 9, 1940, was one entered  into  by	 therespondent in the ordinary course of his business, that	 thesum of Rs. 2,50,000 was paid admittedly as solatium for	 thecancellation  of  that	contract, that	the  payment  reallyrepresents the profits which the respondent could have made,had the contract been performed, and that it is therefore  arevenue receipt; and a number of authorities were quoted  insupport of this contention.  We shall now refer to the	moreimportant   of	 them.	 ID  Short  Bros.    Ltd.   v.	 TheCommissioners of Inland Revenue (1), the facts were that theappellant   Company  which  was	 carrying  on  business	  asshipbuilders  had  entered  into a  contract  to  build	 twosteamers and later on, agreed to its cancellation on receiptof  a sum of pound 1,00,000.  The question was whether	thiswas a capital or revenue receipt.  Rowlatt, J., held that itwas merely a receipt in a going concern and was revenue, andthat  was  affirmed by the Court of Appeal,  Lord  Hanworth,M.R.,  observing that such a contract as the one before	 himwas liable in the ordinary course of business to be  alteredor terminated on terms and the payment of pound 1,00,000  insettlement   of	 the  rights  under  the  contract  was	  anadjustment made between the appellants and their clients  inthe  ordinary course of business.  Similar observations	 areto be found in the judgment of Sargant, L. J. and  Lawrence,L. J. It may be noted on the facts of the present case	thatthe  agreement of January 5, 1935, was modified on  December21,  1935,  and	 the disputes  which  arose  with  referencethereto(1)  (1927) 12 Tax Cas. 955.118were settled by the agreement of May 9, 1940, which was,  inturn,  replaced	 by  agreement dated August  2,	 1941.	 Theagreements  dated  May 9, 1940, and August  2,	1941,  couldtherefore  be  properly said to be adjustments made  in	 theordinary course of business.In  The Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. The	North  fleetCoal and Ballast Co., Ltd. (1), the respondent Company whichwas the owner of a chalk quarry had entered into a  contractwith a purchaser for the supply of certain quantity of chalkfor  a period of ten years.  After some time, the  purchaserwanted to be relieved from the contract, and the  respondentagreed	to its termination on receipt, of pound 3,000.	 Thepoint  for  decision  was whether that was a  capital  or  arevenue	 receipt.   In	holding	 that  it  was	the  latter,Rowlatt, J., observed:"  If  the contract had gone forward those sums	 would	havecome  into  profits  every  year  and  now  that  they	 arerepresented  by a commutation, so far as that is  concerned,the point seems to be concluded by Short's case (2) ".One  of the contentions urged on behalf of the assessee	 wasthat the contract being for a term was a capital asset, thatthe  effect  of the subsequent agreement terminating  it  onpayment	 of  pound  3,000 was in  substance  to	 assign	 theunexpired  portion of the contract for a consideration,	 andthat  it  would be a capital receipt on the  principle	laiddown  in  John Smith & Son v. Moore(1).	 In  repelling	thiscontention, Rowlatt, J., observed :"These	contracts  are not being sold.	They are  not  beingeven   extinguished  really  for  this	purpose.   What	  ishappening  is that the profits under them are  being  taken;something is being taken in respect of the profits of  them.That  is the position.	This sum represents the	 profits  ofthe  Company -on the contracts, treating them  as  contractswhich nationally have earned or are going to earn a profit."And  the  decision  in	John  Smith  &	Son  v.	 Moore	 wasdistinguished.(1) (1927) 12 Tax Cas. 1102.(2) (1927) 12 Tax Cas. 955.(3) (1921) 12 Tax Cas. 266,119In John Smith & Son v. Moore (1), it may be stated that	 theexecutors sold some outstanding contracts for the supply  ofcoal to the son of the testator for a consideration, and  itwas  held that the payment made by the son for the  purchaseof  the contracts was in his hands a capital  expense.	 Thepayment	 was  not given by one party to a  contract  to	 theother in cancellation of the agreement but by a stranger  tothe contract to one of the parties thereto for an assignmentof his rights thereunder.  In Jessee Robinson & Sons v.	 TheCommissioners  of  Inland  Revenue (2),	 the  appellant	 hadentered	 into  two  contracts for the sale  of'	 yarn.	 Thepurchaser  cancelled the contracts and paid pound 12,500  insettlement  of the claims.  The contention of the  appellantwas  that this payment was not a trading receipt  or  profitarising	 from  his  trade.  In	rejecting  this	 contention,Rowlatt, J. observed:"  It  seems  to  me that there is no  reason  why  the	 sumreceived in that respect for breach of contract is not a sumwhich is part of the receipts of the business for which thatcontract was made."Examining the facts of the present case in the light of	 theabove  decisions, the question to be considered	 is  whetherthe  contract  dated May 9, 1940, was entered  into  by	 therespondent in the usual course of his business.	 If it	was,then  the  amount paid for the termination of  the  contractmust  be held to be a trading receipt.	That the  respondenthas  been carrying on business in the production and  supplyof limestone is amply established.  The record shows that hehad been supplying limestone and dolomite to the Bengal IronCompany,  Ltd.,	 from  about  the year	1920  and  that	 thecontracts of 1935 were entered into only in the carrying  onof  that business.  Vide para. 4 in the plaint in  Suit	 No.211  of	 1940 already referred to.  The contract of  May  9,1940,  was  made  in settlement of the	rights	under  thosecontracts.  It is to be noted that under the agreement datedAugust	2,  1941,  under  which he received  a	sum  of	 Rs.2,50,000,  he  also  secured a contract for  the  supply  oflimestone  for a period of 12 years.  On these facts, it  isimpossible to(1) (1921) 12 Tax Cas. 266.(2) (1929) 12 Tax Cas. 1241.120come  to  any  conclusion other than that  the	contract  inquestion was entered into by the respondent in the  ordinarycourse	of  his business.  The learned Judges  in  the-Courtbelow observe that the assessee was not a dealer in,  thoughhe was a supplier of, limestone.  This appears to us to be adistinction  without  a difference.  Moreover, it  would  bewholly	immaterial  for	 the  present  purpose	whether	 therespondent was a dealer in or supplier of limestone, as,  ineither	view,  he  would be carrying  on  business  and	 thecontract  in  question	would be one  entered  into  in	 thecarrying  on of that business.	We should also observe	thatthe  statement that the respondent was only a  supplier	 butnot  a	dealer	in limestone does riot appear  to  be  quiteaccurate on the facts.	Under cl. 13 of the agreement  datedMay  9,	 1940, the respondent had the right  to	 work  otherquarries  of  his own, and the evidence shows  that  he	 didsupply limestone so quarried to other purchasers.In  support  of	 the judgment of the  Court  below,  learnedcounsel for the respondent urged the following contentions :(1)  The contract dated May 9, 1940, was for a period of  25years  of which more than 23 years had still to run  at	 thetime of the settlement, and it was therefore an asset of  anenduring   character,	capital	 in   character,   and	 thecompensation paid therefor was a capital receipt.(2)  The true character of the agreement was that it broughtinto  existence	 an  arrangement  which	 would	enable	 therespondent  to	carry on a business and was not	 itself	 anybusiness and any payment made for the termination of such anagreement is a capital receipt.(3)  The business which was to be carried on pursuant to thecontract  was of a specialised character, that there was  nogeneral market for limestone and dolomite, that the contractin  question formed practically the entire business  of	 therespondent and the compensation paid for the closure of thatbusiness  would	 not  be a revenue  receipt  but  a  capitalreceipt on account of sterilisation of a capital asset.	  Itis argued by Dr. Radha Binode Pal that the features121stated above were not present in the contracts which came upfor consideration in the decisions cited for the  appellant,and  that they are therefore distinguishable, and he  reliedon  other authorities as applicable to the fact,,;  of	thiscase.	These  contentions  and	 the  authorities  cited  insupport thereof must now be considered.(1)  Is	 the receipt of Rs. 2,50,000 a capital	receipt	 forthe reason that it was compensation for the settlement of  acontract  which had a long life before it ? The argument  ofthe  respondent	 is that there is in the  Income-tax  law  awell-defined   distinction   between   fixed   capital	 andcirculating  capital  (Vide John Smith & Son  v.  Moore)(1),that  where there is a contract the performance of which  isto  be	not  once and for all but spread over  a  period  ofyears, it is in the nature of a fixed capital and a  paymenton  account  of	 it  must be held  to  be  capital  receipt.Reliance  is  placed in support of this	 contention  on	 thedecisions  in Commissioner of Income-tax v. Shaw  Wallace  &Co.  (2)  and Barr, Crombie & Co. Ltd. v.  Commissioners  ofInland	Revenue	 (3)  and certain  observations	 in  KelsallParsons & Co. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue (4) and TheCommissioner of Income-tax and Excess Profits Tax, Madras v.The South India Pictures Ltd., Karaikudi (5).In  Income-tax Commissioner v. Shaw Wallace. & Co. (2),	 therespondent Company had been acting for several years as	 thedistributing agents of two oil Companies.  In 1927-28, theseCompanies   decided   to   make	  their	  own	distributionarrangements  and accordingly terminated the agency  of	 therespondent and paid compensation therefor.  The question waswhether	 this amount was a revenue receipt in the  hands  ofthe  respondent.  It was held by the Privy Council  that  itwas  a capital receipt, because it represented	compensationpaid  for cessation of business, not profits earned  in	 thecarrying  on  of  it.	In  Barr,  Crombie  &  Co.  Ltd.  v.Commissioners of Inland Revenue (3), the facts were that(1)  (1921) 12 Tax Cas. 266.(3)  (1945) 26 Tax Cas. 4o6.(5)  [1956] S.C.R. 223.(2)  (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 2o6.(4)  (1938) 21 Tax Cas. 608.16122under  an  agreement dated May 25, 1937, the  appel]ant	 hadbeen appointed manager of a shipping company for a period of15 years, and one of the terms of the agreement was that  ifthe  company went into liquidation, the entire	remunerationfor the remaining period -was payable forthwith.  On  Novem-ber 5, 1942, the company went into liquidation, and a sum ofpound  16,306  16s. 11d. was paid to the  appellant  as	 itsremuneration for the period of about 8 years which was stillto  run.  On a question as to whether this was taxable as  arevenue receipt, it was held that as virtually the whole  ofthe asets of the appellant company consisted of the managingagency agreement, a payment for its extinction was a capitalreceipt	 and was therefore not taxable.	 Distinguishing	 thedecision  in Kelsall's case (1) where compensation paid	 forthe  termination  of an agency agreement was held  to  be  arevenue	 receipt, the Lord President Normand  observed:	 (atpage 411)."  Here we are not dealing with a single payment  in  returnfor  the surrender of the prospect of making profits in	 thefinal  year  of the agreement, but with a  payment  for	 thesurrender   of	an  agreement  while  there  was   still   asubstantial  period-indeed, more than half of the period  ofthe agreement-to run ".Lord Moncrieff agreeing with this conclusion observed that "so  far from this being a prepayment of future	remunerationfor  services, this was, if regard be had to 'the  substanceof the matter a price paid upon the purchase and sale of themain asset of a business."In  Kelsall's case (1), the assessee carried on business  ascommission  agents and acquired a number of agencies in	 thecourse	of that business.  One of these agencies  which	 wasfor a period of three years was cancelled at the end of	 thesecond year on payment of pound 1,500 as compensation.	 Thequestion  was  whether	this  was a  capital  or  a  revenuereceipt.   In  holding	that it was  the  latter,  the	LordPresident,  Normand  observed  that  the  business  of	 theappellant was to acquire as many agencies as it could,	thatit was incidental to that agency that it should be modified,altered or discharged(1)  (1938) 21 Tax Cas. 6o8.123and  that as the period outstanding was one year,  it  couldnot be said that the appellant was parting with an  enduringasset  of the business.	 Lord Fleming in agreeing with	thisconclusion  stated that he attached importance to  the	factthat  the  agreement  had  Only one year  to  run  and	thatdifferent  considerations  might &rise	if  the	 outstandingperiod was considerable."  A  different	 case  would have  arisen  for	decision  heobserved, (at p. 622) " if the agreement had been terminatedwhen  it  had still, say, a period of 10 years	to  run.   Apayment	 made  in respect of a loss to be sustained  over  aperiod	of years may well have a different character from  apayment	 made  in respect of a loss to be sustained  in	 theyear in which the payment is received."All  these  cases  were	 considered by	this  Court  in	 TheCommissioner of Income-tax and Excess Profits Tax, Madras v.The  South India Pictures Ltd., Karaikudi (1).	 There,	 theassessee  was  carrying on business in the  distribution  offilms, and in the course of such business entered into threecontracts  dated September 17, 1941, July 16, 1942, and	 May5,  1945, with a company called the Jupiter Pictures,  Ltd.,for  the  production and distribution of three films  for  aperiod	of 5 years.  On October 31, 1945, the  assessee	 andthe  Jupiter  Pictures,	 Ltd.,	entered	 into  an  agreementterminating  the contracts in consideration of a payment  ofRs.  26,000 as compensation to the assessee.   The  questionhaving	been  raised whether this was a capital	 or  revenuereceipt,  this	Court held that it was the  latter  and	 wasliable to be taxed, and the decision in Barr, Crombie &	 Co.Ltd.   v.   Commissioners   of	Inland	 Revenue   (2)	 wasdistinguished  on the ground that there the whole  trade  ofthe assessee was built on the agreement dated May 25,  1937,that it was a fundamental asset of the assessee's  business,and that the payment on account of it was a capital receipt.Now, it is the contention of the respondent that the presentcase  is governed by the principles laid down in  the  abovedecisions and not those enunciated in the authorities  citedfor the appellant, and that the(1) [1956] S.C.R. 223.(2) (1945) 26 Tax Cas. 406.124payment	 of Rs. 2,50,000 as compensation on account  of	 theagreement  dated  May  9,  1940,  falls	 within	  Income-taxCommissioner  v. Shaw Wallace & Co. (1) and Barr, Crombie  &Co.  Ltd.  V.  Commissioners of Inland Revenue (2  )  ratherthan  Kelsall's case (3) and The Commissioner of  Income-taxand  Excess Profits Tax, Madras v. The South India  PicturesLtd., Karaikudi (4) because the contract dated May 9,  1940,formed	practically the only business of the respondent	 andthe  contract  had  at the time of the	settlement  still  aperiod	of  23	years  to run.	It will	 be  seen  that	 thereceipts, the chargeability of which was in question in	 thedecisions  cited for the respondent, were all payments	madeas  compensation  for the termination of  agency  contracts,whereas we are concerned with an amount paid as solatium forthe cancellation of a contract entered into by a businessmanin  the	 ordinary course of his business, and that,  in	 ourjudgment,  makes all the difference in the character of	 thereceipt.   In  an  agency  contract,  the  actual   businessconsists  in  the  dealings between the	 principal  and	 hiscustomers, and the work of the agent is only to bring  aboutthat  business.	  In other words, what he does	is  not	 thebusiness  itself  but  something  which	 is  intimately	 anddirectly  linked  up with it.  It is therefore	possible  toview  the  agency as the apparatus which leads	to  businessrather	than  as the business itself on the analogy  of	 theagreements in Van Den Berghs Ltd. v. Clark (5).	  Consideredin  this  light, the agency right can be held to be  of	 thenature	of a capital asset invested in business.   But	thiscannot	be said of a contract entered into in  the  ordinarycourse of business.  Such a contract is part of the businessitself,	 not anything outside it as is the agency,  and	 anyreceipt on account of such a contract can only be a  tradingreceipt.That there is a distinction between an agency agreement	 anda contract made in the usual course of business will furtherbe clear, if we have regard to one(1) (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 206.  (2) (1945) 26 Tax Cas. 406.(3) (1938) 21 Tax Cas. 608.   (4) [1956] S.C.R. 223.(5)  [1935] A. C. 431.125of  the	 reasons on which the conclusion  that	compensationpaid for cancellation of agency rights is a capital  receiptis  sometimes rested.  It is that, in substance,  the  agentassigns the agreement to the principal and the	compensationis  price  paid	 therefor.  Vide the  observations  of	LordMoncrieff  in Barr, Crombie & Co. Ltd. v.  Commissioners  ofInland Revenue (1) at page 413 already quoted.	It no  doubtsounds somewhat strange that an arrangement between  partiesto a contract settling claims thereunder should be  regardedas an assignment of the rights of one of them to the  other,but  it	 at  least emphasises that the agreement  is  to  beregarded as a capital asset of the agent, which is saleable.Such  a	 concept will be out of place with  reference  to  acontract  entered  into	 in the	 course	 of  business.	 Anypayment made for the non-performance or cancellation of sucha  contract can only be damages or compensation and  cannot,in  law or fact, be regarded as an assignment of the  rightsunder  the  contract.	A  claim for  damages  is,  in	law,incapable  of  being transferred, though the  benefit  of  acontract could be assigned while it is subsisting, and	suchassignment  can only be in favour of third persons,  not  infavour of the other party to the contract, in which case  itwill be a new contract.	 Reference may in this connection bemade   to   the	 observations  of  Rowlatt,   J.,   in	 TheCommissioners  of Inland Revenue v. The Northfleet Coal	 andBallast	 Co., Ltd. (2) already quoted, that  such  contractswere not sold.If,  then, contracts entered into in the course of  businesscannot,	 unlike	 agency contracts, be regarded	as  ,capitalassets	of  the business, would it make	 any  difference  intheir  character  that	they are to be in  operation  for  aperiod ? On principle, it is difficult to see why it should.If  under  the	terms of a contract a businessman  A  is  tosupply goods, let us say, 100 bales of yarn, on a particularday  and  he does that, the price received by  him  thereforwill  be  a revenue receipt.  And in the above case  if	 thepurchaser  cancels  the	 contract and pays  damages  to	 theseller, that would also be a revenue receipt.  If under	 thesame(1) (1945) 26 Tax Cas. 406(2) (1927) 12 Tax Cas. 1102.126contract  A  is	 to  deliver the  bales	 in  four  quarterlyinstalments,  and he does so and receives the price in	fourinstalments,  all  the receipts would be  revenue  receipts.And  if	 after one instalment is  delivered,  the  purchasercancels the contract as regards future instalments and	payscompensation  therefor	to  the seller,	 such  payment	willundoubtedly be a revenue receipt.  If the contract is that Ais  to	supply whatever goods are ordered by  the  purchaserduring	a  certain period, let us say, 10 years,  the  pricereceived for the goods ordered and delivered will be revenuereceipt.  Now, if the purchaser under this contract puts  anend to the contract after some time, say, at the end of	 twoyears  and pays compensation for the breach of the  contractas  regards the remaining period, does the  receipt  thereofbecome	a capital receipt ? It sounds illogical so to  hold.How   does  it	affect	the  true  position,   whether	 thecontracting  parties agree to carry on business in the	saleand  purchase of goods for a stated period on terms  settledbetween	 them,	or whether they enter into a  succession  ofcontracts for that purpose ?Two  decisions	have been quoted before us as  showing	thatpayments  under	 a  contract entered into  in  the  ordinarycourse	of business would be revenue receipts,	even  thoughthe  agreement may be for a period.  In The Commissioner  ofInland	Revenue v. The Northfleet Coal and Ballst Co.,	Ltd.(1)  cited above, the contract was for the supply  of  chalkfor a period of ten years, and the compensation paid was forthe cancellation of the contract for the unexpired period offour  years,  and it was held to be a trading  receipt.	  InShove (H.  M. Inspector of Taxes) v. Dura Manufacturing	 Co.Ltd.  (2), the respondent company had introdticed company  Ato  company B, as the result of which the former obtained  aremunerative  business with the latter.	 In return for	thisservice, A agreed to pay the respondent a commission on	 thebusiness   so  obtained.   Later  on,  this  agreement	 wasterminated  on payment of a sum of pound 1,500 by A to	the,respondent.  The question was whether this was a revenue(1)  (1927) 12 Tax Cas. 1102.  (2) (1941) 23 Tax  Cas.	779,783.127receipt.  In answering it in the affirmative, Lawrence,	 J.,observed:" Reliance was also placed on certain dicta in the Court  ofSession in Kelsall Parsons & Co. v. Commissioners of  InlandRevenue,  at pages 620, 622 and 624, which suggest  that  ifthe  contract cancelled has more than one year to  run,	 thesum  received  for  its cancellation way  be  capital.	 Thelearned Judges who expressed this view did not say that suchsum  must  be capital.	They were dealing  with	 a  contractdifferent  from	 the present, namely,  an  agency  contract,which  constituted  a  very large  part	 of  the  taxpayer'sbusiness "."  In  view  of	 the  decision	in  Short  Bros.,  Ltd.	  v.Commissioners  of  Inland Revenue and  in  Commissioners  ofInland Revenue v. Northfleet Coal and Ballast Co.  Ltd.	 andthe  differences  of facts, I do not feel that	those  dictaought to be applied to the present case."In  our	 opinion, therefore, when once it is  found  that  acontract  was  entered	into  in  the  ordinary	 course	  ofbusiness,  any	compensation received  for  its	 terminationwould  be  a revenue receipt, irrespective  of	whether	 itsperformance  was to consist of a single act or a  series  ofacts  spread over a period, and in this respect, it  differsfrom an agency agreement.In  holding that compensation paid on the cancellation of  atrading contract differs in character from compensation paidfor  cancellation  of an agency contract, we should  not  beunderstood as deciding that the latter must always, and as amatter	of  law	 be held to be a  capital  receipt'  Such  aconclusion  will  be directly opposed to  the  decisions  inKelsall's  case (1) and The Commissioner of  Income-tax	 andExcess Profits Tax, Madras v. The South India Pictures Ltd.,Karatkudi  (2).	 The fact is that an agency  contract  whichhas  the  character of a capital asset in the hands  of	 oneperson may assume the character of a trading receipt in	 thehands  of another, as, for example, when the agent is  foundto make a trade of acquiring agencies and dealing with them.The principle was(1) (1938) 21 Tax Cas. 608.(2) [1956] S.C.R. 223.128thus  stated  by Romer, L. J., in Golden Horse	Shoe,  (New)Ltd. v. Thurgood (1):" The determining factor must be the nature of the trade  inwhich  the  asset  is  employed.   The	land  upon  which  amanufacturer  carries on his business is part of  his  fixedcapital..  The	land  with which a  dealer  in	real  estatecarries OD. his business is part of his circulating capital.The  machinery with which a manufacturer makes the  articlesthat  he sells is part of his fixed capital.  The  machinerythat  a	 dealer in machinery buys and sells is part  of	 hiscirculating  capital,  as is the coal that a  coal  merchantbuys and sells in the course of his trade.  So, too, is	 thecoal  that  a  manufacturer of gas buys and  from  which  heextracts his gas."Therefore,  when  a  question arises whether  a	 payment  ofcompensation for termination of an agency is a capital or  arevenue receipt, it would have to be considered whether	 theagency	was in the nature of capital asset in the  hands  ofthe  assessee, or whether it was only part of his  stock-in-trade.	 Thus, in Barr, Crombie & Son Ltd. v.  Commissionersof   Inland  Revenue  (2),  the	 agency	 was  found  to	  bepractically  the  sole	business of the	 assessee,  and	 thereceipt	 of  compensation on account of it  was	 accordinglyheld  to be a capital receipt, while in Kelsall's  case	 (3)the agency which was terminated was one of several  agenciesheld  by the assessee and the compensation  amount  receivedtherefor was hold to be a revenue receipt, and that was alsothe  case  in  The Commissioner	 of  Income-tax	 and  ExcessProfits	 Tax,  Madras  v. The  South  India  Pictures  Ltd.,Karaikudi  (4).	  It  is, however,  unnecessary	 to  furtherelaborate  this point, as we are concerned in  this  appeal,not  with  an agency agreement but with a  contract  enteredinto  in  the  ordinary	 course of  business,  and,  in	 ourjudgment,  compensation	 received  on  account	of  such   acontract must be held to be a revenue receipt.(2)  The  above	 discussion answers to a  large	 extent	 thecontention of the respondent that the contract(1)  (1933) 18 Tax Cas.	 280, 300.(3)  (1938) 21 Tax Cas. 6o8.(2)  (1945) 26 Tax Cas. 4o6.(4)  [1956] S.C.R. 223.129dated  'May 9, 1940' was merely a framework of his  businessand  not the business itself, and that a receipt on  accountof  it	must be treated as a capital receipt.  The  decisionrelied	on in support of this contention is Van	 Den  BerghsLtd.  v. Clark (1).  There, two companies, one	English	 andthe  other Dutch, which were engaged in the manufacture	 andsale  of  margarine  entered into  certain  agreements,	 theobject	of  which was to avoid competition  and	 to  augmenttheir profits.	An elaborate scheme was devised under  whichthe  two companies were to carry on their business  indepen-dently but "in friendly alliance" and in accordance with thescheme;	 and the profits were to be shared between  the	 twocompanies in certain proportions.  The agreements were to bein  operation till 1940, but differences arose	between	 theparties in the working of the scheme and the "alliance " wasterminated in 1927, the Dutch company paying to the  Englishcompany	 a  sum	 of pound  4,50,000  as	 compensation.	 Thequestion was as to the character of this receipt, whether itwas  a capital or a revenue receipt, and it was held by	 theHouse  of  Lords  that	it was a  capital  receipt  and	 nottaxable.Now,  it  will	be seen that the contracts  which  were	 thesource	of  the receipt in question did	 not  in  themselvesconstitute the business which yielded the profits to the twocompanies.   Those  profits were derived by  them  from	 themanufacture and sale of margarine, and there was nothing  inthe agreements providing that the companies were to join  inthe  manufacture  and sale of the margarine.   The  positionunder  the agreement is thus stated by Lord  Macmillan,	 whodelivered the leading judgment:"  The	three agreements which the appellants  consented  tocancel	were not ordinary commercial contracts made  in	 thecourse	of carrying on their trade; they were not  contractsfor the disposal of their products, or for the engagement ofagents or other employees necessary for the conduct of theirbusiness; nor were they merely agreements as to how their(1)  (1935) A.C. 431.17130trading profits when earned should be distributed as betweenthe  contracting  parties.  On the  contrary  the  cancelledagreements related to the whole structure of the appellants'profit-making  apparatus.   They regulated  the	 appellants'activities, defined what they might and what they might	 notdo, and affected the whole conduct of their business."Thus,  the  agreements in question were intended  to  ensurethat  the business in margarine was carried on to  the	bestadvantage,  but	 did not, in themselves, form  part  of	 thebusiness.   They  were	merely collateral  to  it.  For	 thereasons given in discussing the nature of agency agreements,the agreements between the two companies must be regarded asnot  pertaining	 to the trading	 activities,  which  yieldedprofits, and the payment on account of those agreements mustbe  held to be a capital receipt.  But these  considerationswould  be inapplicable to the agreement, with which  we	 areconcerned.   The business which the respondent was to  carryon  and	 which	was to yield profits to	 him  was  the	verybusiness  to which the agreement relates.  It is under	thisvery  agreement that he was to be paid Rs. 2-9-0 per ton  oflimestone loaded by him, and the business which he had to doto  earn  the amount was to raise and  supply  limestone  asprovided  in the agreement.  There is here no  profit-makingapparatus  set up by the agreement &part from  the  businesswhich  is  to be carried on under it.	We  are	 accordinglyunable	to agree that the present case is governed' 'by	 thedecision in Van Den Berghs Ltd. v. Clark(3)  It	  remains  to  deal  with  the	contention  of	 therespondent that the business which he was to have carried onunder  the contract dated May 9, 1950, was  practically	 theentirety of his trading activities, and that the terminationof  such  a  contract is tantamount to	stopping  his  doingbusiness  and  the compensation paid therefor is  a  capitalreceipt.  Reliance is placed in support of this argument  onthe decision in The Glenboig Union Fireclay Co. Ltd. v.	 TheCommissioners of Inland Revenue (2).  Now, to appreciate the(1) (1935) A.C. 431.(2) (1922) 12 Tax Cas. 427.131truer position, it is necessary to bear in mind the distinc-tion between compensation on account of business carried  onunder  an  agreement  with  a  third  party  when  that	  isterminated, and compensation which is received on account ofa business which the assessee is prevented from carrying  onby  a third person in exercise of an overriding	 power.	  Inthe  former case, the payment would in general be a  tradingreceipt	 referable to the business activities carried on  orto be carried on under the agreement and would be taxable asa  revenue  receipt.  There may be exceptions  to  this.   Afamiliar instance is when the parties agree, as part of	 thecontract to do business, that one of them shall not carry onsimilar	 business for a stated period after the	 terminationof the contract, and a compensation is paid therefor.	Thathas been held to be a capital receipt.	Vide Beak v.  Robson(1).  The reason is that it is a payment made not on accountof  profits which might have been earned in the carrying  onof  the	 business but as solatium for not  carrying  on	 thebusiness.   A payment made in a similar covenant to  operateduring the period of the contract, however, has been held tobe a revenue receipt, because it arises out of the  carryingon  of the business.  Vide Thompson v.	Magnesium  Elektron,Ltd.  (2).  It might also happen that one of the parties  tothe  contract  might  have, in the  carrying  out  -thereof,incurred expenses of a capital character and as a result  ofthe cancellation of the contract, those expenses would	havebeen  thrown  away.   A payment made  on  account  of  thoseexpenses would bear the character of a capital receipt.	 Butapart  from  these  and similar	 in-stances,  it  might,  ingeneral,  be  stated  that payments made  in  settlement  ofrights under a trading contract are trading receipts and areassessable  to revenue.	 But where a person who is  carryingon  business  is  prevented from doing	so  by	an  externalauthority  in exercise of a paramount power and	 is  awardedcompensation  therefor,	 whether that receipt is  a  capitalreceipt or a revenue receipt will depend upon whether it  iscompensation for injury inflicted on a capital asset or on a(1) (1942) 25 Tax Cas. 33.(2) (1943) 26 Tax Cas. 1.132stock-in-trade.	 The decision in The Glenboig Union FireclayCo. Ltd. v. The Commissioners Of Inland Revenue (1)  appliesto this category of cases.  There, ,he assessee was carryingon  business in the manufacture of fire clay goods and	had,for  the performance of that business, acquired a fire	clayfield  on lease.  The Caledonian Railway which	passed	overthe field prohibited the assessee from excavating the  fieldwithin	 a,  certain  distance	of  the	 rails,	  and	paidcompensation therefor in accordance with the provisions of astatute.  It was held by the House of Lords that this was  acapital	 receipt and was not taxable on the ground that	 thecompensation was really the price paid " for sterilising theasset  from which otherwise profit might have been  obtained".  That  is say, the fire clay field was  a  capital  assetwhich was to be utilised for the carrying on of the businessof  manufacturing fire clay goods and when the assessee	 wasprohibited  from  exploiting  the field, it  was  an  injuryinflicted  on  his  capital  asset.   Where,  however,	 thecompensation is referable to injury inflicted on the  stock-in-trade,   it	would  be  a  revenue  receipt.	  Vide	 TheCommissioners of Inland Revenue v. Newcastle Breweries	Ltd.(2).   The principle of these decisions has  no	 applicationwhere the compensation paid is in respect of rights  arisingunder  a trading contract.  A payment made in settlement  ofthat  contract	is an adjustment of the	 rights	 under	thatcontract, and must be referred to the profits which could bemade in the carrying out of that contract.In  the	 present case, the contract dated May 9,  1940,	 wassimply an agreement to carry on business.  In settlement  ofthat  contract,	 Rs. 2,50,000 was paid	to  the	 respondent.That was not a payment on account of any capital expenditureincurred  by  him in the execution of  the  contract.	Thatindeed was the point sought to be raised by the	 respondent,but  therein he has failed.  It is also to be noted that  atno time was he prevented from carrying on business.   Clause6 of the agreement dated May 9, 1940, contemplates that	 therespondent was to carry on generally the business(1) (1922) 12 Tax Cas. 427.(2) (1927) 12 Tax Cas. 927.133of  supply  of	limestone even apart from his  work  in	 theGangapur  quarry,  and the agreement dated August  2,  1941,provides  for  his supplying limestone for the	furnaces  atKulti  for  a  period of 12 years and for  loading  iron  atMonoharpore  for a like period.	 There was therefore  at  notime  any agreement which operated as a bar to the  carryingon of business by the respondent.On  a consideration of all the facts established, we are  ofopinion	 that the receipt of Rs. 2,50,000 by the  respondentis a revenue receipt. and is chargeable to tax.In  the result, the appeal is allowed, the judgment  of	 theHigh Court set aside and the order of the Tribunal restored.The   respondent  will	pay  the  costs	 of  the   appellantthroughout.					Appeal allowed.