PETITIONER:SALES TAX OFFICER, BANARAS & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:KANHAIYA LAL MUKUNDLAL SARAFDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/09/1958BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  135		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)1350 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC 149	 (30) R	    1964 SC1006	 (14) R	    1965 SC1942	 (34) RF	    1970 SC 898	 (18,25,32,46,63) RF	    1976 SC2243	 (29) R	    1984 SC 971	 (9) E&R	    1985 SC 901	 (12) E	    1986 SC1556	 (1,27) R	    1990 SC 313	 (18)ACT:Mistake	 of  Law-Payment-Sales tax on forward  transactions,subsequently   held  invalid--Claim   for   refund-Voluntarypayment-Equitable  considerations-Indian Contract Act,	1872(9 of 1872),s. 72.HEADNOTE:Under S. 72 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872: " A person  towhom  money has been paid ... by mistake or  under  coercionmust repay or return it ".The respondent, a registered firm, paid sales tax in respectof  its forward transactions in pursuance of the  assessmentorders	passed by the sales tax officer for the years  1949-51,  but  in 1952, the Allahabad High Court having  held  inMessrs.	  Budh	Prakash jai Prakash v.	Sales  Tax  Officer,Kanpuy,	 1952  A. L. J. 332, that the levy of sales  tax  onforward transactions was ultra vires, the respondent appliedfor  a refund of the amounts paid, by a writ petition  underArt.  226  of the Constitution.	 It was	 contended  for	 thesales  tax authorities that the respondent was not  entitledto a refund because (1) the amounts in dispute were paid  bythe  respondent	 under a mistake of law and  were  thereforeirrecoverable,	(2)  the payments were in discharge  of	 theliability  under  the  Sales  Tax  Act	and  were  voluntarypayments  without  protest, and (3) inasmuch as	 the  monieswhich  had  been  received by the Government  had  not	beenretaine	 but had been spent away by it, the  respondent	 wasdisentitled to recover the said amounts.Held, that the term " mistake " in s. 72 Of the Indian	Con-tract  Act  comprises within its scope a mistake of  law  aswell  as  a mistake of fact and that, under that  section  aparty is entitled to recover money paid by mistake or  undercoercion,  and if it is established that the  payment,	eventhough it be of a tax, has been made by the party  labouringunder  a  mistake of law, the party receiving the  money  isbound  to repay or return it though it might have been	paidvoluntarily,  subject,	however, to questions  of  estoppel,waiver, limitation or the like.Shib  Prasad Singh v. Maharaja Srish Chandra  Nandi,  (1949)L.R. 76 I.A. 244, relied on.Where  there  is a clear and unambiguous  provision  of	 lawwhich  entitles	 a  party  to the  relief  claimed  by	him,equitable  considerations  cannot be imported  and,  in	 theinstant case, the fact that the Government had not  retainedthe monies paid by the respondent but had spent them away inthe ordinary course1351of business of the State would not make any difference,	 andunder the plain terms of s. 72 Of the Act the respondent wasentitled to recover the amounts.Observations  in Nagorao v. Governor-General in Council,  A.1.  R. 1951 Nag. 372, 374, to the effect that where a  partyreceiving money paid under a mistake has no longer the moneywith him, equitable considerations might arise, disapproved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE- JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.87 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated December 1,  1955,of  the	 Allahabad High Court in Special Appeal	 No.  18  of1955,  arising out of the judgment and order dated  November30, 1954, of the' said Court in Civil Misc.  Writ No. 355 of1952.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,G.   C. Mathur and C.  P. Lal, for the appellants.P.   R. Das and B. P. Maheshwari, for the respondent.B.   P. Maheshwari, for Agra Bullion Exchange (Intervener).K.   Veeraswami	 and  T.  M. Sen, for the  State  of  Madras(Intervener).R.   C. Prasad, for the State of Bihar (Intervener).H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,B.   Gopalakrishnan  and T. M. Sen, for the Union  of  India(Intervener).1958.	September  23.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byBHAGWATI J.-The facts leading up to this appeal lie within anarrow	compass.  The respondent is a firm registered  underthe  Indian  Partnership Act dealing in	 Bullion,  Gold	 andSilver ornaments and forward contracts in Silver Bullion  atBanaras	 in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	 For the  assessmentyears  1948-49, 1949-50 and 1950-51 the Sales  Tax  Officer,Banaras, the appellant No. 1 herein assessed the  respondentto  U.	P. Sales Tax on its forward transactions  in  SilverBullion.  The respondent had deposited the sums of Rs.	150-12-0, Rs. 470-0-0 and Rs. 741-0-0 for the said1352three  years  which  sums  were	 appropriated  to-wards	 thepayment	 of  the sales tax liability of the firm  under	 therespective assessment orders passed on May 31, 1949, October30, 1950 and August 22, 1951.The levy of sales tax on forward transactions was held to beultra vires, by the High Court of Allahabad by its  judgmentdelivered on February 27, 1952, in Messrs.  Budh Prakash JaiPrakash v. Sales Tax Officer, Kanpur (1) and the  respondentby its letter dated July 8, 1952, asked for a refund of	 theamounts	 of sales tax paid as aforesaid.  The appellant	 No.2,  the Commissioner of Sales Tax, U. P., Lucknow,  however,by  his	 letter dated July 19, 1952, refused to	 refund	 thesame.The  respondent	 thereafter  filed  in	the  High  Court  ofAllahabad  the	Civil Misc.  Writ Petition No. 355  of	1952under  Art. 226 of the Constitution and asked for a writ  ofcertiorari  for	 quashing  the	aforesaid  three  assessmentorders	and a writ of mandamus requiring the  appellants  torefund the aforesaid amounts aggregating to Rs.	 1,365-12-0.The  judgment of the Allahabad High Court was  confirmed  bythis Court on May 3, 1954, in Sales Tax Officer, Pilibhit v.Budh Prakash Jai Prakash () and the writ petition  aforesaidwas  heard  by Chaturvedi J. The learned judge by  an  orderdated November 30, 1954, quashed the said assessment  ordersin  so	far as they purported to assess	 the  respondent  inrespect	 of  forward contracts in silver and also  issued  awrit  of  mandamus directing the appellants  to	 refund	 theamounts paid by the respondent.The appellants filed a Special Appeal No. 18 of 1955 in	 theHigh  Court of Allahabad against that order of	the  learnedJudge.	 A Division Bench of the said High Court  heard	 thesaid  appeal  on  December 1, 1955.  It was  argued  by	 theAdvocate-General  on,  behalf  of the  appellants  that	 theamounts	 in  dispute  were paid by the	respondent  under  amistake	 of  law  and  were  therefore	irrecoverable.	 TheAdvocate-General  also	stated categorically  that  in	thatappeal he did not contend that the respondent ought to have(1) (1952) A.L.J- 332.(2) [I955] 1 S.C.R. 243.1353proceeded  for the recovery of the amount claimed  otherwisethan   by  way	of  a  petition	 Under	Art.  226   of	 theConstitution.  The High Court came to the conclusion that s.72  of the Indian Contract Act applied to the  present	caseand  the State Government must refund the moneys  unlawfullyreceived by it from the respondent on account of Sales	Tax.It accordingly dismissed the appeal with costs.The  appellants	 then applied for a certificate	 under	Art.133(1)(b) of the Constitution which certificate was  grantedby  the	 High  Court  on July 30,  1956,  on  the  Advocate-General's giving to the Court an undertaking that the  Statewill,  in  any event, pay the costs,  charges  and  expensesincurred by or on behalf of the respondent as taxed by	thisCourt.	This appeal has accordingly come up for hearing	 andfinal  disposal before us at the instance of the  Sales	 TaxOfficer,  Banaras, appellant No. 1, the Commissioner,  SalesTax,  U.P., Lucknow, appellant No. 2 and the State of  U.P.,appellant No. 3.The  question  that  arises for our  determination  in	thisappeal	is whether s. 72 of the Indian Contract Act  appliesto the facts of the present case.The  learned Additional Solicitor-General appearing for	 theappellants  tried to urge before us that the procedure	laiddown  in  the  U.P. Sales Tax Act by way  of  appeal  and/orrevision against the assessment orders in question ought  tohave  been  followed by the respondent and that	 not  havingbeen done the respondent was debarred from proceeding in thecivil  courts for obtaining a refund of the monies  paid  asaforesaid.   He also tried to urge that in any event a	writpetition  could not lie for recovering the monies thus	paidby  the respondent.  Both those contentions  were,  however,not available to him by reason of the categorical  statementmade  by  the Advocate-General before the High	Court.	 Thewhole matter had proceeded on the basis that the  respondentwas  entitled  to  recover the amount claimed  in  the	writpetition  which	 was filed.  No such point  had	 been  takeneither in the grounds of appeal or in the statement of	casefiled before us in this Court and we did not feel  justifiedin allowing the1354learned	 Additional Solicitor-General to take this point  atthis stage.Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act is in thefollowing terms:"  A  person  to  whom money  has  been	 paid,	or  anythingdelivered by mistake or under coercion, must repay or returnit."As  will be observed the section in terms does not make	 anydistinction  between a mistake of law or a mistake of  fact.The term " mistake " has been used without any qualificationor  limitation	whatever and comprises within  its  scope  amistake	 of  law  as well as a mistake	of  fact.   It	was,however,  attempted  to	 be argued on  the  analogy  of	 theposition in law obtaining in England, America and  Australiathat  money  paid  under  a mistake  of	 law  could  not  berecovered and that that was also the intendment of s. 72  ofthe Indian Contract Act.The position in English law is thus summarised in Kerr on  "Fraud and Mistake " 7th Edn., at p. 140:" As a general rule it is well-established in equity as wellas at law, that money paid under a mistake of law, with fullknowledge of the facts, is not recoverable, and that even  apromise to pay, upon a supposed liability, and in  ignoranceof the law, will bind the party.  "The ratio of the rule was thus stated by JamesL.   J. in Rogers v. Ingham(1) :" If that proposition were trite in respect of this case  itmust  be true in respect to every case in the High Court  ofJustice	 where	money has been paid under a  mistake  as  tolegal  rights, it would open a fearful amount of  litigationand  evil  in the cases of distribution of estates,  and  itwould be difficult to say what limit could be placed to thiskind  of  claim, if it could be made after  an	executor  ortrustee	 had distributed the whole estate among the  personssupposed to be entitled, every one of them having  knowledgeof all the facts, and having given a release.  The thing hasnever been done, and it is not a thing which, in my opinion,is to be encouraged.  Where people have a(1)  (1876) 3 Ch.  D. 351,356.1355knowledge of all the facts and take advice, and whether theyget  proper  advice  or not, the money is  divided  and	 thebusiness is settled, it is not for the good of mankind	thatit  should  be reopened..." (See also National	Pari  MutualAssociation  Ltd. v. The King (1) and Pollock  on  Contract,13th Edn., at pp. 367 & 374).The American doctrine is also to the same effect as  appearsfrom the following passage in Willoughby on the Constitutionof the United States, Vol. 1, p. 12:"  The general doctrine that no legal rights  or  obligationcan accrue under an unconstitutional law is applied in civilas  well as criminal cases.  However, in the case  of  taxeslevied	and  collected	under  statutes	 later	held  to  beunconstitutional,  the	tax payer cannot recover  unless  heprotested the payment at the time made.	 This, however, is aspecial	 doctrine applicable only in the case of taxes	paidto  the	 State.	  Thus,	 in  transactions  between   privateindividuals, moneys paid under or in pursuance of a  statutelater  held  to be unconstitutional, may  be  recovered,  orrelease from other undertakings entered into obtained.	"The High Court of Australia also expressed a similar opinionin  Werrin  v. The Commonwealth (2) where Latham C.  J.	 andMacTiernan  J.	held  that money paid  voluntarily  under  amistake	 of  law  was irrecoverable.  Latham C.	 J.  in	 thecourse	of  his judgment at p. 157 relied upon	the  generalrule,  as stated in Leake on Contracts, 6th Edn. (1911),  p.63  " that money paid voluntarily, that is to  say,  withoutcompulsion  or	extortion  or undue  influence	and  with  aknowledge  of. all the facts, cannot be	 recovered  althoughpaid without any consideration.	 "It  is no doubt true that in England, America and  Australiathe position in law is that monies paid voluntarily, that isto  say, without compulsion or extortion or undue  influenceand with a knowledge of	 all  facts,  cannot  here   coveredalthough paid without any consideration.Is the position	 thesame in India ?     (1) 47 T.L.R. 110.	 (2) 59 C.L.R. 150.1721356It  is necessary to observe at the outset that what we	havegot  to consider are the plain terms of s. 72 of the  IndianContract  Act as enacted by the Legislature.  If  the  termsare  plain  and	 unambiguous we cannot have  resort  to	 theposition  in  law  as it obtained in  England  or  in  othercountries  when the statute was enacted by the	Legislature.Such  recourse	would be permissible only if there  was	 anylatent	or patent ambiguity and the courts were required  tofind  out what was the true intendment of  the	Legislature.Where, however, the terms of the statute do not admit of anysuch  ambiguity,  it  is the clear duty	 of  the  courts  toconstrue the plain terms of the statute and give them  theirlegal effect.As was observed by Lord Herschell in the Bank of England  v.Vagliano Brothers (1) :"  I  think the proper course is in the	 first	instance  toexamine	 the language of the statute and to ask what is	 itsnatural	 meaning uninfluenced by any considerations  derivedfrom  the previous state of the law, and not to	 start	withenquiring  how the law previously stood, and then,  assumingthat it was probably intended to leave it unaltered, to	 seeif the words of the enactment will bear an interpretation inconformity with this view.  ""If  a	Statute, intended to embody in a code  a  particularbranch	of  the law, is to be treated in  this	fashion,  itappears	 to  me	 that its utility will	be  almost  entirelydestroyed,  and	 the very object with which it	was  enactedwill  be frustrated.  The purpose of such a  statute  surelywas that on any point specifically dealt with by it, the lawshould	be  ascertained by interpreting	 the  language	usedinstead	 of,  as before, by roaming oyer a  vast  number  ofauthorities   in  order	 to  discover  what  the  law	was,extracting it by a minute critical examination of the  priordecision...............This passage was quoted with approval by their Lordships  ofthe  Privy  Council in Narendranath Sircar  v.	Kamal-BasiniDasi  (2) while laying down the proper mode of dealing	withan Act enacted to codify a particular branch of the law.(1) [1891] A.C. 107, 144.(2) (1896) I.L.R. 23 Cal. 563, 571.1357The  Privy  Council adopted a similar  reasoning  in  MohoriBibee v. Dhurmodas Ghose (1) where they had to interpret  s.11  of	the Indian Contract Act.  They had before  them	 thegeneral	 current of decisions in India that ever  since	 thepassing of the Indian Contract Act the contracts of  infantswere voidable only.  There were, however, vigorous  protestsby  various  judges from time to time; and there  were	alsodecisions   to	the  contrary  effect.	 Under	these	cir-cumstances, their Lordships considered themselves at libertyto  act	 on  their own view of the law as  declared  by	 theContract Act, and they had thought it right to have the casereargued before them upon this point.  They did not considerit  necessary  to examine in detail the	 numerous  decisionsabove referred to, as in their opinion the " whole  questionturns upon what is the true construction of the Contract Actitself	".  They  then	referred  to  the  various  relevantsections  of  the  Indian  Contract  Act  and  came  to	 theconclusion  that the question whether a contract is void  orvoidable presupposes the existence of a contract within	 themeaning of the Act and cannot arise in the base of an infantwho is not " competent to contract.  "In Satyabrata Ghose v. Mugneeram Bangur & Co. (2), s. 56  ofthe  Indian Contract Act came up for consideration  by	thisCourt.	B. K. Mukherjea J. (as he then was) while deliveringthe judgment of the Court quoted with approval the followingobservations  of  Fazl Ali J. in Ganga Saran v.	 Ram  Charan(3):" It seems necessary for us to emphasise that so far as	 thecourts	in  this  country  are	concerned,  they  must	lookprimarily  to the law as embodied in sections 32 and  56  ofthe Indian Contract Act, 1872. and proceeded to observe :"  It  would  be incorrect to say that	section	 56  of	 theContract Act applies only to cases of physical impossibilityand that where this section is not applicable, recourse	 canbe  had	 to the principle of English law on the	 subject  offrustration.   It must be held also that to the extent	thatthe Indian Contract Act deals(1) (1902) L.R. 30 I.A. 114.  (2) [1954] S.C.R. 310.(3) [1952] S.C.R. 36, 52.1358with  a particular subject, it is exhaustive upon  the	sameand  it	 is  not permissible to	 import	 the  principles  ofEnglish	  law  dehors  these  statutory	  provisions.	 Thedecisions  of the English courts possess only  a  persuasivevalue  and  may	 be helpful in showing	how  the  courts  inEngland	 have decided cases under circumstances	 similar  tothose which have come before our courts.  "It is, therefore, clear that in order to ascertain the	truemeaning and intent of the provisions, we have got to turn tothe  very  terms of the statute itself,	 divorced  from	 allconsiderations as to what was the state of the previous	 lawor  the	 law in England or elsewhere at the  time  when	 thestatute	 was enacted.  To do otherwise would be to make	 thelaw,  not  to interpret it. (See Gwynne v. Burnell  (1)	 andKumar Kamalranjan Royv.   Secretary of State (2).The  courts  in	 India do not appear  to  have	consistentlyadopted this course and there were several decisions reachedto the effect that s. 72 did not apply to money paid under amistake of law, e.g., Wolf & Sons v. Dadyba Khimji & Co. (3)and  Appavoo  Chettiar v. S. 1. Ry.  Co. (4).	In  reachingthose  decisions the courts were particularly influenced  bythe  English decisions and also provisions of s. 21  of	 theIndian	Contract Act which provides that a contract  is	 notvoidable because it was caused by a mistake as to any law inforce  in  British India.  On the other hand,  the  CalcuttaHigh Court had decided in Jagdish Prasad Pannalal v. ProduceExchange Corporation Ltd. (5), that the word " mistake "  ins. 72 of the Indian Contract Act included not only a mistakeof fact but also a mistake of law and it was further pointedout  that this section did not conflict with s.	 21  becausethat  section dealt not with a payment made under a  mistakeof law but a contract caused by a mistake of law, whereas s.72  dealt  with	 a  payment which was  either  not  under  acontract  at all or even if under a contract, it was  not  acause of the contract.(1)  7	Cl. & F. 696. (2) L. R. 66 I. A. 1, 10.	 (3)  (1919)I.L.R. 44 Bom. 631, 649. (4) A.I.R. 1929 Mad. 177.(5)  A.I.R. 1946 Cal. 245.1359The  Privy  Council resolved this conflict in  Shiba  PrasadSingh  v.  Srish Chandra Nundi(1).  Their Lordships  of	 thePrivy Council observed that the authorities which dealt withthe meaning of " mistake " in the section were	surprisinglyfew  and  it could not be said that there  was	any  settledtrend of authority.  Their Lordships were therefore bound toconsider  this matter as an open question, and stated at  p.253:"  Those learned judges who have held that mistake  in	thiscontext must be given a limited meaning appear to have	beenlargely	 influenced  by the view expressed  in	Pollock	 andMulla's	 commentary  on s. 72 of the  Indian  Contract	Act,where it is stated (Indian Contract & Specific Relief  Acts,6th  Edn.,  p.	402):  " Mistake of  law  is  not  expresslyexcluded by the words of this section; but s. 21 shows	thatit  is not included ". For example, Wolf & Sons	 v.  DadyabaKhimji	& Co. (2).  Macleod J. said referring to s. 72 "  onthe  face of it mistake includes mistake of law.  But it  issaid  that  under s. 21 a contract is not  voidable  on	 theground	that the parties contracted under a mistaken  beliefof the law existing in British India, and the effect of thatsection	 would be neutralized if a party to such a  contractcould  recover	what he had paid by means of  s.  72  thoughunder s. 21 the contract remained legally enforceable.	Thisseems  to be the argument of Messrs.  Pollock and Mulla	 andas  far	 as I can see it is sound." In Appavoo	Chettiar  v.South Indian Rly. (3), Ramesam and Jackson JJ. say: " Thoughthe word ' mistake' in s. 72 is not limited it must refer tothe  kind of mistake that can afford a ground for relief  aslaid  down in ss. 20 and 21 of the Act.........	 Indian	 lawseems to be clear, namely, that a mistake, in the sense thatit is a pure mistake as to the law in India resulting in thepayment	 by  one person to another and making  it  equitablethat  the  payee should return the money is  no	 ground	 forrelief."  Their	 Lordships have found no case  in  which  anopinion	 that  ',mistake" in s. 72 must be given  a  limitedmeaning has been based on any other ground.  In their(1) (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 244.  (2) (1919) I.L.R. 44 Bom. 631.	  (3) A.I.R. 1929 Mad. 648.1360Lordships'  opinion  this  reasoning is	 fallacious.   If  amistake of law has led to the formation of a contract, s. 21enacts	that that contract is not for that reason  voidable.If money is paid under that contract, it cannot be said thatthat  money  was  paid under mistake of law ;  it  was	paidbecause it was due under a valid contract, and if it had notbeen  paid payment could have been enforced.  Payment  "  bymistake	 "  in s. 72 must refer to a payment which  was	 notlegally	 due and which could not have been enforced ; the  "mistake	 " is thinking that the money paid was due when,  infact,  it  was not due.	 There is  nothing  inconsistent  inenacting  on  the  one hand that if  parties  enter  into  acontract  under mistake in law that contract must stand	 andis  enforceable, but, on the other hand, that if  one  partyacting	under  mistake of law pays to  another	party  moneywhich  is not due by contract or otherwise, that money	mustbe repaid.  Moreover, if the argument based on inconsistencywith  s. 21 were valid, a similar argument based  on  incon-sistency  with	s. 22 would be valid and would lead  to	 theconclusion  that  s. 72 does not even apply  to	 mistake  offact.  The argument submitted to their Lordships was that s.72  only applies if there is no subsisting contract  betweenthe  person making the payment and the payee, and  that	 theIndian Contract Act does not deal with the case where  thereis  a subsisting contract but the payment was not due  underit.   But  there appears to their Lordships to	be  no	goodreason	for  so limiting the scope of the Act.	Once  it  isestablished  that  the payment in question was not  due,  itappears	 to  their Lordships to be  irrelevant	to  considerwhether	 or  not there was a contract  between	the  partiesunder which some other sum was due.  Their Lordships do	 notfind   it  necessary  to  examine  in  detail	the   Indianauthorities  for the wider interpretation of " mistake "  ins.  72.	  They	would  only refer to  the  latest  of  theseauthorities, Pannalal v. Produce Exchange Corp. Ltd. (1), inwhich  a  carefully reasoned judgment was given	 by  Sen  J.Their Lordships agree with this judgment.  It may be well toadd that their(1)  A.I.R. 1946 Cal. 245.1361Lordships' judgment does not imply that every sum paid undermistake is recoverable, no matter what the circumstances maybe.   There may in a particular case be circumstances  whichdisentitle a plaintiff by estoppel or otherwise."We  are	 of opinion that this interpretation  put  by  theirLordships  of the Privy Council on s. 72 is correct.   Thereis no warrant for ascribing any limited meaning to the	wordI mistake' as has been used therein and it is wide enough tocover not only a mistake of fact but also a mistake of	law.There is no Conflict between the provisions of s. 72 on	 theone hand and ss. 21 and 22 of the Indian Contract Act on theother and the true principle enunciated is that if one partyunder  a  mistake, whether of fact or law, pays	 to  anotherparty  money which is not due by contract or otherwise	thatmoney must be repaid.  The mistake lies in thinking that themoney  paid  was due when in fact it was not  due  and	thatmistake, if established, entitles the party paying the moneyto recover it back from the party receiving the same.The learned Additional Solicitor-General, however, sought tobring his case within the observations of their Lordships ofthe  Privy  Council that their judgment did not	 imply	thatevery  sum paid under mistake is recoverable no matter	whatthe  circumstances  might be and that there might  be  in  aparticular  case circumstances which disentitle a  plaintiffby  estoppel  or otherwise.  It was thus urged	that  havingregard	to the circumstances of the present case, (i) in  sofar as the payments were in discharge of the liability underthe  U.P. Sales Tax Act and were voluntary payments  withoutprotest and also (ii) inasmuch as the monies which had	beenreceived by the State of U. P. had not been retained but hadbeen  spent  away by it, the respondent was  disentitled  torecover	 the said amounts.  Here also, we may  observe	thatthese  contentions were not specifically urged in  the	HighCourt or in the statement of case filed by the appellants inthis court; but we heard arguments on the same, as they werenecessarily involved in the question whether s. 72 of1362the Indian Contract Act applied to the facts of the  presentcase.Re:  (i):-The  respondent was assessed for the said  amountsunder  the U. P. Sales Tax Act and paid the same; but  thesepayments were in respect of forward transactions in  silver.If the State of U. P. was not entitled to receive the  salestax  on	 these transactions, the provision  in	that  behalfbeing  ultra vires, that could not avail the State  and	 theamounts	 were paid by the respondent, even though they	werenot due by contract or otherwise.  The respondent  committedthe  mistake in thinking that the monies paid were due	whenin  fact  they	were  not due  and  that  mistake  on  beingestablished  entitled it to recover the same back  from	 theState  under  s.  72 of the Indian Contract  Act.   It	was,however,  contended  that the payments having been  made  indischarge  of the liability under the U. P. Sales  Tax	Act,they were payments of tax and even though the terms of s. 72of  the	 Indian	 Contract Act applied to the  facts  of	 thepresent	 case  no  monies  paid	 by  way  of  tax  could  berecovered.   We do not see any warrant for this	 propositionwithin	the terms of s. 72 itself.  Reliance  was,  however,placed on two decisions of the Madras High Court reported in(1) Municipal Council, Tuticorin v. Balli Bros. (1) and	 (2)Municipal Council, Rajahmundry v. Subba Rao (2).  It may  benoted,	however, that both these decisions proceeded on	 thebasis  that the payments of the taxes there were made  undermistake	 of law which as understood then by the Madras	HighCourt  was  not within the purview of s. 72  of	 the  IndianContract  Act.	 The High Court then proceeded	to  considerwhether	 they  fell within the second part of s.  72,  viz.,whether the monies had been paid under coercion.  The  courtheld on the facts of those cases that the payments had	beenvoluntarily  made  and	the parties  paying  the  same	weretherefore  not entitled to recover the same.  The  voluntarypayment was there considered in contradistinction to paymentunder coercion and the real ratio of the decisions was	thatthere was no coercion or duress exercised by the authoritiesfor(1) A.I.R. 1934 Mad. 420.     (2) A.I.R, 1937 Mad. 559.1363exacting the said payments and therefore the payments havingbeen voluntarily made, though under mistake of law, were notrecoverable.  The ratio of these decisions, therefore,	doesnot  help  the	appellants before  us.	 The  Privy  Councildecision  in Shiba Prasad Singh v. Srish Chandra  Nandi	 (1)has  set  the whole controversy at rest and if	it  is	onceestablished  that the payment, even though it be of  a	tax,has been made by the party labouring under a mistake of	 lawthe  party  is entitled to recover the same  and  the  partyreceiving  the	same  is bound to repay or  return  it.	  Nodistinction  can,  therefore, be made in respect  of  a	 taxliability and any other liability on a plain reading of	 theterms of s. 72 of the Indian Contract Act, even though	sucha distinction has been made in America vide the passage fromWilloughby on the Constitution of the United States, Vol. 1,p. 12 opcit.  To hold that tax paid by mistake of law cannotbe recoverd under s. 72 will be not to interpret the law butto make a law by adding some such words as " otherwise	thanby way of taxes " after the word " paid ".If this is the true position the fact that both the parties,viz., the respondent and the appellants were labouring undera  mistake  of	law and the  respondent	 made  the  paymentsvoluntarily would not disentitle it from receiving the	saidamounts.  The amounts paid by the respondent under the U. P.Sales  Tax  Act in respect of the  forward  transactions  insilver,	 had  already been deposited by	 the  respondent  inadvance	 in  accordance with the U. P. Sales Tax  Rules	 andwere  appropriated  by	the  State  of	U.  P.	towards	 thedischarge  of  the liability for the sales tax on  the	res-pective	 assessment  orders having been	 passed.   Both	 theparties	 were  then labouring under a mistake  of  law,	 thelegal  position as established later on by the	decision  ofthe  Allahabad	High  Court in	Messrs.	  Budh	Prakash	 JaiPrakash	 v.  Sales  Tax	 Officer,  Kanpur  (2)	subsequentlyconfirmed  by this Court in Sales Tax Officer,	Pilibhit  v.Budh  Prakash Jai Prakash (3) not having been known  to	 theparties at the relevant(1) (1949) L. R. 76 1. A. 244.	(2) (1952) A.L.J. 332.(3) [1955] I S.C.R. 243.1731364dates.	 This mistake of law became apparent only on May  3,1954,  when  this Court confirmed the said decition  of	 theAllababad High Court and on that position being	 establishedthe  respondent	 became entitled to recover  back  the	saidamounts which had been paid by mistake of law.	The state ofmind  of the respondent would be the only thing relevant  toconsider in this context and once the respondent establishedthat  the payments were made by it under a mistake  of	law,(and  it may be noted here that the whole  matter  proceededbefore	the High Court on the basis that the respondent	 hadcommitted a mistake of law in making the said payments),  itwas entitled to recover back the said amounts and the  Stateof  U.	P.  was bound to repay or return  the  same  to	 therespondent  irrespective of any other consideration.   Therewas  nothing in the circumstances of the case to  raise	 anyestoppel against the respondent nor would the fact that	 thepayments  were	made in discharge of a	tax  liability	comewithin	the dictum of the Privy Council	 above	referred-to.Voluntary  payment of such tax liability was not  by  itselfenough	to preclude the respondent from recovering the	saidamounts, once it was established that the payments were madeunder  a mistake of law.  On a true interpretation of s.  72of the Indian Contract Act the only two circumstances  thereindicated  as entitling the party to recover the money	backare that the monies must have been paid by mistake or  undercoercion.    If	 mistake  either  of  law  or  of  fact	  isestablished,  he is entitled to recover the monies  and	 theparty  receiving the same is bound to repay or	return	themirrespective  of  any consideration whether the	 monies	 hadbeen  paid  voluntarily,  subject however  to  questions  ofestoppel,  waiver,  limitation or the like.   If  once	thatcircumstance  is  established the party is entitled  to	 therelief	claimed.  If, on the other hand, neither mistake  oflaw nor of fact is established., the party may rely upon thefact of the monies having been paid under coercion in  orderto  entitle  him  to the relief claimed and it	is  in	thatposition  that it becomes relevant to consider	whether	 thepayment	 has  been a voluntary payment or  a  payment  undercoercion.  The1365latter	position has been elaborated in English law  in	 themanner	following in Twyford v. Manchester  Corporation	 (1)where Romer J. observed:"  Even so, however, I respectfully agree with the  rest  ofWalton J.'s judgment, particularly with his statement that ageneral	 rule  applies, namely, the rule that, if  money  ispaid  voluntarily, without compulsion, extortion,  or  undueinfluence,  without fraud by the person to whom it  is	paidand  with  full	 knowledge of all the facts,  it  cannot  berecovered,  although  paid  without  consideration,  or	  indischarge  of a claim which was not due or which might	havebeen successfully resisted."The principle of estoppel which has been adverted to by	 thePrivy  Council in Shiba Prasad Singh v. Srish Chandra  Nandi(2) as disentitling the plaintiff to recover the monies paidunder mistake can best be illustrated by the decision of theAppeal	Court in England reported in Holt v. Markham (3)  "-here  it was held that as the defendant had been led by	 theplaintiffs' conduct to believe that he might treat the moneyas  his own, and in that belief had altered his position  byspending it, the plaintiffs were estopped from alleging thatit  was	 paid  under  a mistake; and this  brings  us  to  aconsideration of point No. 2 above stated.Re:  (ii):  Whether  the principle of  estoppel	 applies  orthere are circumstances attendant upon the transaction whichdisentitle  the	 respondent  to	 recover  back	the  monies,depends	 upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	  Noquestion of estoppel can ever arise where both the  parties,as  in the present case, are labouring under the mistake  oflaw  and  one  party is not more to blame  than	 the  other.Estoppel  arises  only	when the plaintiff by  his  acts  orconduct makes a representation to the defendant of a certainstate  of facts which is acted upon by the defendant to	 hisdetriment;  it is only then that the plaintiff	is  estoppedfrom  setting up a different state of facts.  Even  if	thisposition  can be availed of where the representation  is  inregard to a position in law, no(1) [1946] 1 Ch. 236, 241.  (2) [1949] L. R. 76 I. A. 244.(3)  [1923] 1 K.B. 504.1366such  occasion arises when the mistake of law is  common  toboth the parties.  The other circumstances would be such  aswould entitle a court of equity to refuse the relief claimedby  the plaintiff because on the facts and circumstances  ofthe case it would be inequitable for the court to award	 therelief	to  the plaintiff.  These  are,	 however,  equitableconsiderations and could scarcely be imported when there  isa clear and unambiguous provision of law which entitles	 theplaintiff to the relief claimed by him.Such  equitable considerations were imported by	 the  NagpurHigh Court in Nagorao v. G. G.-in-Council where KaushalendraRao J. observed:"  The	circumstances in a particular case,  disentitle	 thepltf. to recover what was paid under mistake.""  If  the reason for the rule that a  person  paying  moneyunder  mistake	is  entitled to recover it  is	that  it  isagainst conscience for the receiver to retain it, then	whenthe  receiver has no longer the money with him or cannot  beconsidered as still having it as in a case when he has spentit on his own purposes-which is not the case  here-differentconsiderations must necessarily arise."We  do not agree with these observations of the Nagpur	HighCourt.	 No  such equitable considerations can	be  importedwhen the terms of s. 72 of the Indian Contract Act are clearand  unambiguous.   We may, in this context,  refer  to	 theobservations  of  their Lordships of the  Privy	 Council  inMohori	Bibee v. Dhurmodas Ghose (2) at p. 125.	 In  dealingwith  the  argument which was urged there in regard  to	 theminor's	 contracts which were declared void, viz., that	 onewho  seeks equity must do equity and that the minor  againstwhom  the  contract  was  declared  void  must	refund	 theadvantage which he had got out of the same, their  Lordshipsobserved  that this argument did not require further  noticeexcept	by  referring to a recent decision of the  Court  ofAppeal in Thurstan v. Nottingham Permanent Benefit  BuildingSociety (3)(1)  A.I.R. 1951 Nag. 372,374.	 (2) [19O2] L. R. 30  I.  A.114.(3)  [I9O2] 1 Ch. 1.1367since  affirmed by the House of Lords and they	quoted	withapproval the following passage from the judgment of Romer L.J., at p. 13 of the earlier report:" The short answer is that a Court of Equity cannot say thatit is equitable to compel a person to pay moneys in  respectof   a	transaction  which  as	against	 that	person	 theLegislature has declared to be void."That  ratio was applied by their Lordships to the  facts  ofthe  case,  before them and the	 contention  was  negatived.Merely	because	 the  State of U. P. had  not  retained	 themonies paid by the respondent but had spent them away in theordinary course of the business of the State would not	makeany difference to the position and under the plain terms  ofs.  72	of the Indian Contract Act the respondent  would  beentitled to recover back the monies paid by it to the  Stateof U.P. under mistake of law.The result, therefore, is that none of the contentionsurged before us on behalf of the appellants in regard to thenon-applicability of s. 72 of the Indian Contract Act to thefacts  of  the	present case avail them and  the  appeal  isaccordingly dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.