PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUBDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/11/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1028		  1961 SCR  (2) 729 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC1722	 (9) F	    1972 SC 159	 (4) R	    1972 SC 397	 (5)ACT:Income	Tax-Expenditure	 for  preservation  of	business--Ifwholly	 and  exclusively  laid	 out  for  the	Purpose	  ofbusiness--Indian  Income Tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922),  S.  10(2)(XV).HEADNOTE:The business of the respondent club was to run race meetingson a commercial scale.	The club did not own any horse,	 andtherefore  did not employ jockeys. it was a matter  of	someimportance to the club that there were jockeys of  requisiteskill  and  experience in sufficient numbers  who  would  beavailable  to the owners and trainers because otherwise	 therunning	 of  the  race meetings would  not  be	commerciallyprofitable  and its interest would suffer and it might	havehad to abandon its business if it did not take steps to makejockeys	 of the necessary calibre available.   Therefore  itestablished  a	school for the training of  Indian  boys  asjockeys	 and  claimed the sums spent on the running  of	 theschool	as  deductable	amount under s. 10  (2)(XV)  of	 theIndian Income Tax Act.The  question was whether in the circumstances of  the	casethe  expenditure  claimed  was	one  which  was	 wholly	 andexclusively  laid  out for the purpose of  the	respondent'sbusiness.Held, that any expenditure which was incurred for preventingthe extinction of a business would be expenditure wholly andexclusively laid opt for the purpose of the business of	 theassessee and would be an allowable deduction.In  the	 instant  case the amount in dispute  was  laid	 outwholly	and exclusively for the purpose of the	respondent'sbusiness,  because  if the supply of  jockeys  of  requisiteefficiency and skill failed, the business of the  respondentwould no longer be possible.Eastern Investments Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, WestBengal,	 [1951] S. C. R. 594 and Commissioner of  Income-taxv.  Chandulal Keshavlal & Co., [1960] 38 I.T.R. 601;  reliedon,British	 Insulated and Helsby Cables v. Atherton, [1926]  A.C.  205,  Morgan v. Tate & Lyle Ltd., [1955] A.	 C.  21	 andBoarland  v.  Kramat Pulai Ltd., [1953] 2 All, E.  R.  1122,discussed.Strong	& Co. v. Woodifield, [1906] A. C. 448 and  Smith  v.Incorporated  Council of Law Reporting, [1914] 3  K.B.	674,referred to.Ward & Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Taxes, [1923] A. C.	145,distinguished.730JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 419 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedAugust 20, 1957, of the Calcutta High a Court in  Income-taxReference No. 1 of 1956.Hardyal Hardy and D. Gupta, for the appellant.N.  C. Chatterjee, Dipak Choudhri and B. N. Ghosh,  for	 therespondent.1960.  November 28.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyKAPUR,	J. - This is an appeal by special leave against	 thejudgment  and  order  of the High  Court  of  Judicature  atCalcutta  in  a reference made by the  Income-tax  AppellateTribunal  under	 s.  66(1)  of	the  Income-tax	 Act.	 Thefollowing question was referred:"Whether  in the facts and circumstances of this  case,	 theAppellate  Tribunal  was right in holding  that	 Rs.  61,818spent  by the assessee to train Indian boys as jockeys,	 didnot  constitute	 expenses of the business  of  the  assesseeallowable under s. 10(2)(xv)?" which was answered in  favourof the respondent.  The Commissioner is the appellant beforeus and the assessee is the respondent.The  respondent is an association of persons whose  businessis to hold race meetings in Calcutta on a commercial  basis.It holds two series of race meetings during the two  seasonsof  the	 year.	The respondent does not own any	 horses	 andtherefore  does not employ jockeys but they are employed  byowners	and trainers of horses which are run in	 the  races.It  is	a matter of some importance to the  respondent	thatthere  should  be  jockeys  available  to  the	owners	withsufficient skill and experience because the success of racesto  a  considerable extent depends upon the  experience	 andskill  of a jockey who rides a horse in a race.	 Because  itwas  of	 the opinion that there was a risk  of	the  jockeysbecoming  unavailable  and that	 such  unavailability  wouldseriously  affect  its business which might  result  in	 itsclosing731down the business, the respondent considered it expedient toremedy	that defect.  Therefore in 1948, it,  established  aschool	for the training of Indian boys as jockeys  so	thatafter their training they might be available for purposes ofrace meetings held under its auspices.	The school, however,did  not prove a success and after having been in  existencefor three years it was closed down.During the year ending March 31, 1949, the respondent  spenta sum of Rs. 62,818 on the running of its school and claimedthat amount as a deduction under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Income-tax  Act  and  also in the  assessment	under  the  BusinessProfits	 Tax  for the chargeable  accounting  period  endingMarch 31, 1949.	 This claim was disallowed by the Income TaxOfficer	 and on appeal by Appellate  Assistant	Commissionerand  also  by  the Income-tax Appellate	 Tribunal.   At	 theinstancc  of the respondent the question already quoted	 wasreferred to the High Court and was answered in favour of therespondent.  This appeal is brought by special leave againstthat judgment.The  decision  under the Business Profits Tax  Act  will  beconsequential  upon the decision of the deduction under	 theIncome-tax  Act.   The Tribunal found that it  was  not	 thebusiness of the respondent to provide jockeys to owners	 andtrainers,  that	 the  jockeys trained  in  the	respondent'sschool	were not bound to ride only in the races run by	 therespondent  and that the benefit, if any, which accrued	 wasof  an enduring nature.	 It also found that  the  respondenthad  been conducting race meetings since long, that  it	 wasnot  the  case	of the assessee that if	 it  did  not  trainjockeys	 they  would become unavailable and  that  the	merepolicy	of  producing  efficient Indian jockeys	 was  not  asufficient consideration for treating the expenditure as oneincurred  for  the business of the  respondent.	  For  thesereasons the expenditure was disallowed.Before	 the  Appellate	 Assistant  Commissioner,   it	 wascontended  by the respondent, that the reason for  incurringthe  expenditure was "to promote efficient  Indian  jockeys"and it was in the interest of the respondent to see that theraces are not abandoned on732account	 of  the scarcity of jockeys.  In the order  of	 theTribunal  it  is stated that this was not the  case  of	 therespondent,   and  therefore  when  the	 respondent   wantedparagraph  5  of  the statement to  be	substituted  by	 thefollowing:"It  was  the case of the assessee that	 unless	 it  trainedIndian	Jockeys,  time	may  come  when	 there	may  not  besufficient  number of trained jockeys to ride horses in	 theraces conducted by the assessee." the Tribunal did not agreeto do so.Counsel for the appellant raised three points before us; (1)The question as to whether an item of expenditure is  whollyand exclusively laid out for the purposes of business or notis  a  question	 of  fact; (2)	the  connection	 between  anexpenditure  and  profit-earning of the assessee  should  bedirect	and  substantial  and  not  remote  and	 (3)  to  beadmissible  as revenue expenditure it should not be  in	 thenature of a capital expense, i.e., it should not bring	intoexistence an asset of an enduring nature.As  to	the first question this court has  held	 in  EasternInvestments Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, West  Bengal(1)  that "though the question must be decided on the  factsof  each  case,	 the final conclusion is one  of  law".	  InCommissioner of Income Tax v. Chandulal Keshavlal & Co. (2),this Court said:-"Another test is whether the transaction is properly enteredinto  as  a  part of the  assessee's  legitimate  commercialundertaking  in order to facilitate the carrying on  of	 itsbusiness;  and	it  is immaterial that a  third	 party	alsobenefits  thereby. (Eastern Investment Ltd. v.	Commissionerof Income-Tax, (1951) 20 I.T.R.1).  But in every case it is a question of fact whether	 theexpenditure  was  expended wholly and  exclusively  for	 thepurpose of trade or business of the assessee. In the presentcase the finding is that it was laid out for the purpose  ofthe  assessee's	 business and there is evidence	 to  supportthis finding."But those observations must be read in the context.  In thatcase  the assessee firm was the Managing Agent of a  Companyand at the request of the Directors of(1) [1951] S.C.R. 594, 598.  (2) [1960] 38 I.T.R. 601, 610.733the latter agreed to accept a lesser commission for the yearof  account than it was entitled to.  It was found,  by	 theAppellate  Tribunal there that the amount was  expended	 forreasons	 of  commercial expediency and was not	given  as  abounty but to strengthen the managed company so that if	 itsfinancial position became strong the assessee would  benefitthereby,  and  an  the evidence the  Tribunal  came  to	 theconclusion  that the amount was wholly and  exclusively	 forthe purpose of such business.  It was on this evidence	thatthe  expense was held to be wholly and exclusively laid	 outfor the purpose of the assessee's business and this was	 thefinding	 referred  to.	In that case the  Tribunal  had	 notmisdirected  itself as to the true scope and meaning of	 thewords  "wholly and exclusively laid out for the	 purpose  ofthe  assessee's business".  In the present case the  Income-tax Appellate Tribunal had misdirected itself as to the truescope  and meaning of these words.  In our opinion,  in	 thecircumstances  of  this	 case, it cannot be  said  that	 thefinding of the Tribunal was one of fact.The  question  as  to whether the expenses  of	running	 theschool	for jockeys is deductible has to be  decided  takinginto  consideration  the circumstances of  this	 case.	 Thebusiness  of -the respondent was to run race meetings  on  acommercial scale for which it is necessary to have races  ofas  high  an order as possible.	 For the popularity  of	 theraces  run  by	the  respondent and  to	 make  its  businessprofitable  it	was  necessary that there  were	 jockeys  ofrequisite  skill  and experience in sufficient	numbers	 whowould  be  available  to the  owners  and  trainers  becausewithout such efficient jockeys the running of race  meetingswould  not  be	commercially profitable.  It  was  for	thispurpose that the respondent started the school for  trainingIndian	jockeys.,  If there were not  sufficient  number  ofefficient  Indian jockeys to ride horses its interest  wouldhave suffered, and it might have had to abandon its businessif  it did not take steps to make jockeys of  the  necessarycalibre	 available.   Therefore any  expenditure  which	 wasincurred for preventing the extinction93734of  the	 respondent's  business would, in  our	opinion,  beexpenditure wholly and exclusively laid out for the  purposeof  the business of the assessee and would be  an  allowablededuction.   This  finds  support from	decided	 cases.	  InCommissioner of Income-tax v. Chandulal Keshavlal & Co. (1),this  Court  held that in order to justify a  deduction	 thedisbursement  must be for reasons of commercial	 expediency;it  may	 be  voluntary	but  incurred  for  the	  assessee'sbusiness; and if the expense is incurred for the purpose  ofthe  business  of the assessee it does not matter  that	 thepayment	 also  enures  to  the benefit	of  a  third  party.Another	 test  laid  down was that  if	the  transaction  isproperly entered into as a part of the assessee's legitimatecommercial  undertaking in order to facilitate the  carryingon of its business it is immaterial that a third party	alsobenefits thereby.  In British Insulated and Helsby Cables v.Atherton  (2), Viscount Cave L. C. held that a Bum of  moneyexpended,  not of necessity and with a view to a direct	 andimmediate  benefit to the trade, but voluntarily and on	 theground	of commercial expediency and in order indirectly  tofacilitate  the	 carrving  on of the  business	may  yet  beexpended  wholly  and  exclusively for the  purpose  of	 thetrade.	 In  a case more recently decided Morgan v.  Tate  &Lyle  Ltd.  (3) the assessee company was  engaged  in  sugarrefining  business and it incurred expenses in a  propagandacampaign  to  oppose the threatened nationalisation  of	 theindustry.   It was held by the House of Lords by a  majoritythat  the  object of the expenditure being to  preserve	 theassets	of the company from seizure and so to enable  it  tocarry  on its business and earning profits, the expense	 wasan  admissible deduction being wholly and  exclusively	laidout for the purpose of the company's trade.  Lord Morton  ofHenryton  said:"Looking  simply  at the words of the rule I  would  ask:"Ifmoney so spent is not spent for the purpose of the company'strade, for what purpose is it spent?"If the assets are seized, the company can no longer(1) (1960) 38 I.T.R. 601, 610.	  (2) [1926] A.C. 205.(3)  [1955] A.C. 21.735carry  on the trade which has been carried on by the use  ofthese assets.  Thus the money is spent to preserve the	veryexistence of the company's trade".See also Strong & Co. v. Woodifield(1), the observations  ofLord  Davey;  and  Smith  v.  Incorporated  Council  of	 LawReporting (2).Counsel	 for the appellant relied upon the judgment  of	 thePrivy Council in Ward & Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Taxes (3),  but that decision proceeds on a different statute  wherethe  words were of a very restrictive character,  the  wordsbeing:".....................	Expenditure or loss of any kind	 notexclusively  incurred  in the production of  the  assessableincome derived from that source............... This case wasdistinguished in Morgan v. Tate & Lyle(4) on the ground thatthe  language of the Now Zealand statute was  much  narrowerthan the language of r. 3A in England.Reference  was	also made by the appellant  to	Boarland  v.Kramat	Pulai  Ltd. (5).  In that case	Directors  of  threeCompanies   engaged  in	 tin  mining  in   Malaya   incurredexpenditure  on printing. and circulating to shareholders  apamphlet containing remarks of the Chairman of the  Company.The  pamphlet  was an attack on the policy and acts  of	 theSocialist  Government  and  it was held	 that  the  questionwhether	 the  money was wholly and exclusively laid  out  orexpended  for  the purpose of trade within  the	 meaning  ofrules  applicable  to the question was one of law but  on  aconsideration	of  the	 question  it  was  held  that	 theexpenditure was not solely incurred with that object.  It isnot  necessary	to discuss that case at any  length  becausewhat  was  held in that case was that the pamphlet  was	 notwholly	and  exclusively for the purpose  of  the  company'strade.Applying  the  law,  as laid down in  those  cases,  to	 thepresent	 case the conclusion is that the amount	 in  disputewas  laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of	 therespondent's business because if the(1) [1906] A C. 448.		 (2) [19I4] 3 K.B. 674.(3) [1923] A.C 145.		(4) [1955] A.C. 21.(5) [1953] 2 All E.R. 1122.736supply	of  jockeys  of	 efficiency  and  skill	 failed	 thebusiness  of  the respondent would no  longer  be  possible.Thus the money was spent for the preservationof the respondent's business.As  to	the  third  point  there  is  no  substance  in	 thesubmission  that  the  expenditure was in the  nature  of  acapital	 expense  because no asset of  enduring	 nature	 wasbeing created by this expense.In  our	 opinion the High Court has rightly  held  that	 theexpenditure claimed was one which was wholly and exclusivelylaid  out for the purpose of the respondent's business.	  Itwas to prevent the threatened extinction of the business  ofthe respondent.	 In the result this appeal is dismissed withcosts.		     Appeal dismissed.