PETITIONER:THE STATE OF ANDHRA	Vs.RESPONDENT:GADDAM VENKATAPPAYYADATE OF JUDGMENT:08/12/1960BENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALABENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.MUDHOLKAR, J.R.CITATION: 1961 AIR  779		  1961 SCR  (3)	 45ACT:Police Service-Officiating Sub-Inspector-Order of  reversionas  Head  Constable-Validity-Rules retating  to	 the  MadrasPolice Subordinate Service, rr. 3, 4 and 5.HEADNOTE:The  respondent,  holding  the substantive rank	 of  a	HeadConstable  in  the Madras Police Service,  was	promoted  toofficiate  as  a  probationary	Sub-Inspector  and,  on	 thecompletion  of	the  period  of	 probation,  placed  in	 thecategory  of  approved probationers  for  confirmation	whensubstantive vacancies arose.  Instead of being confirmed  hewas, for administrative reasons, reverted to his substantivepost  as  the  number  of vacancies  in	 the  post  of	Sub-Inspectors was not sufficient to include him.  Having failedto  obtain  redress from the Government, he moved  the	HighCourt under Art. 226 of the Constitution.Annexure  1 of r. 3 of the service rules provided  that	 thepercentage of promotions from the- rank of Head Constable tothat  of Sub-Inspector was to be "upto not more than 30%  ofthe   cadre",	but  provided  no  limitation	for   directrecruitment,  r. 4 provided that no vacancy shall be  filledby the appointment of a person who had not yet commenced hisprobation when an approved probationer or a probationer	 wasavailable;  cl.	 (a)  of r. 5 provided	that,  for  want  ofvacancy,  the  probationers were to be discharged  first  inorder of juniority and thereafter the approved	probationersin  order of juniority and cl. (b) provided that this  orderof  discharge  might be departed from  in  cases  involving,among others, exceptional administrative inconvenience.The Single judge, who heard the matter, held that there	 wasa  violation of r. 3 of the Service Rules and  directed	 theState  not  to give effect to the order of reversion  if  byvirtue of his seniority he could be included within the	 30%prescribed  for rank-promotees by that rule.   The  DivisionBench,	on appeal, disagreed with the trial judge as to	 thescope of r. 3 but dismissed the appeal holding that the ruleas to juniority prescribed by r. 5 of the service rules	 hadnot been strictly observed.  The State filed an appeal on  acertificate granted by the High Court.Held,  that  the words "upto and not more than	30%  Of	 thecadre"	in the Annexure 1 to r. 3, construed in the  contextof   the  provision  relating  to  direct   recruits   whichprescribes  no	limitation, clearly fix 30  as	the  maximumpercentage of promotions46from  the  rank	 of  Head Constables to	 the  post  of	Sub-Inspectors  and	 leave the appointing  authorities  free  toadopt any other percentage below that figure.  There  could,therefore, be no infraction of the rule if the percentage ofrank-promotees was less than 30% of the total number of	 theSub-Inspectors on' the date of the reversion in question.Rule  4,  which	 regulates the	right  of  probationers	 andapproved  probationers to confirmation, applies only to	 thestage  prior  to confirmation when the	integration  of	 therank-promotees and the direct recruits takes place so as  toform a united service and the proportion prescribed by r.  3has effect.  That rule has to be separately applied to	the-two  classes  and, consequently, there was no  violation  ofthat rule in appointing direct recruits to substantive postsin preference to the respondent.Under  r. 5(a) the juniority for purposes of reversion	has,on  the same reasoning, to be determined separately for	 thedirect	recruits  and  the  rank-promotees  who	  constituteseparate classes.Even otherwise, the impugned order could be sustained  underr. 5(b) in view of the case of administrative  inconveniencemade by the Government and accepted by the Courts below.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 506 of 1957.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated July 21, 1955,  ofthe High Court of Andhra, Guntur, in Writ Appeal No. 122  of1954.K.   N. Rajagopala Sastri and D. Gupta, for the appellant.T.   V. B. Tatachari, for the respondent.1960.	December 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyAYYANGAR., J.-This appeal by the State of Andhra is from thejudgment of the High Court, Andhra, dated July 21, 1955,  ona' certificate under Art. 133(1) (c) of the Constitution.The respondent joined the Madras Police Force as a Constableon September 1, 1939.  He became a permanent Head  Constablein 1946 and was promoted to officiate as a Sub-Inspector  onOctober	 1,  1947, when his probation commenced.   By  orderdated	September  24,	1950,  he  was	declared   to	havesatisfactorily	completed  his period of probation  and	 wasbrought to the "A" list with effect from September 10, 1950.He47was still merely officiating as a Sub-Inspector, the  effectof his being placed in List "A" being that he came into	 thecategory  of an "approved probationer", i.e., fit for  beingconfirmed as Sub-Inspector when substantive vacancies arose.On  August 3, 1952, the District Superintendent	 of  Police,Krishna,  issued  an order reverting the respondent  to	 therank  of  Head Constable with effect from August  14,  1952,i.e.,  to  the	post which he substantively  held,  for	 thereason	that there was not a sufficient number of  vacanciesin  the post of Sub-Inspectors for being filled by him.	  Itmay be mentioned that such reversion was not confined to therespondent  alone  but extended to 'a very large  number  ofofficiating  Sub-Inspectors,  who were	similarly  promotersfrom  the  rank of Head Constables.  The  reverted  officerspetitioned  to the Inspector-General of Police and in  replythereto and in further explanation and clarification of	 thereasons for the reversions the Inspector-General of  Police,Madras,	 issued	 a memorandum on January 15,  1953,  in	 thefollowing terms: "MEMORANDUM.	      Sub:  Officiating Sub-Inspector  Reverting as	      Head    Constables-Seniority    over    direct	      recruits Petitions.	      As  direct  recruits  are	 recruited   against	      vacancies	 specially  reserved  for  them	 and	      cannot  be  reverted for	want  of  vacancies,	      seniority	 between  directly  recruited	Sub-	      Inspectors and promoted Sub-Inspectors  should	      be  determined separately.   Their  contention	      that  they  should not have been	reverted  in	      preference   to	direct	recruits   is	not,	      therefore,  correct.  Their reversion as	Head	      Constables is in order."The respondent thereafter submitted a memorial to Governmentin  which  the principal challenge was to the  view  of	 theGovernment that the directly recruited Sub-Inspectors formeda category distinct from the promotee-Sub-Inspectors as	 notbeing  countenanced  by the relevant rules relating  to	 theconstitution  of  the  Police  Establishment.	Not   havingobtained  any  redress	by  reason  of	his  memorial,	 therespondent48filed before the High Court of Madras a petition under	Art.226 of the Constitution (Writ Petition No. 524 of 1953)	 andprayed	therein that the State of Madras may be directed  bythe  issue of a writ of mandamus to refrain  from  enforcingthe  order reverting him as Head Constable but	to  considerhis  claim to be confirmed as Sub-Inspector on the basis  ofhis   seniority	 in  the  list	of  approved   probationers.Balakrishna Iyer, J., who heard the petition allowed it	 andissued	a  direction to the State "to  forbear	from  givingeffect	to  the'  order of reversion if	 the  petitioner  byvirtue	of his seniority among promoters can be included  inthe 30 per cent. already referred to".	We shall be  dealingin detail with the nature and scope of the rule as to the 30per  cent. referred to here, which formed the basis  of	 thelearned	 Judge's  order	 in its proper place  and  will	 notinterrupt the narration of the events which have led to	 theappeal	now before us.	The State preferred an	appeal	fromthis  judgment	which was transferred to the High  Court  ofAndhra after that Court. was formed.  The learned Judges whoheard  the appeal differed from the learned Single Judge  inhis view as to the scope of the rule as to 30 per cent.	 butdismissed   the	 appeal	 holding  that	the  Government	  indirecting the reversion of the promotee-probationers had notobserved   strictly  the  relevant  rule  as  to   juniorityprescribed in rule 5 of the Service Rules, to which rule  weshall  refer in due course.  The State of Andhra  thereaftermoved  the  High Court for the grant of	 a  certificate	 andhaving obtained it, has filed this appeal.Though in his petition under Art. 226 filed before the	HighCourt  of  Madras,  the	 petitioner  had  alleged  that	 hisreversion from the officiating post of Sub-Inspector to	 hissubstantive  post as Head Constable was a reduction in	rankwithin the meaning of Art. 311(2) of the Constitution, i.e.,a reduction by way of punishment effected without giving himan  opportunity to show cause therefor, this contention	 wasabandoned early in the proceedings before the Court and	 thecase  has proceeded throughout on both sides on the  footingthat the reversion was effected solely for administrative			     49reasons	 and  not for any misconduct by way  of	 punishment.Indeed,	 it  may be mentioned that when the  respondent	 wasnormally  due for promotion to the substantive post of	Sub-Inspector-without  reference  to the judgment  of  the	HighCourt-he was duly promoted to that post and he now  occupiesthe  post  of  a Sub-Inspector drawing	the  increments	 andsalary fixed therefor.Article	 311(2)	 being out of the way.	the  questions	thatarise fall under two heads: (1) Was there a violation of theService	 Rules	when  the respondent was  reverted  as	HeadConstable? (2) If there was such a violation, do breaches ofService	 Rules by themselves constitute an  infringement  ofthe  legal rights of officers to whom they apply,  entitlingthem to seek remedies therefor before Courts.The  rules  on the construction of which the answer  to	 thefirst  point depends are those framed, inter alia, under  s.243  of the Government of India Act, 1935,  entitled  "Rulesrelating to the Madras Police Subordinate Service".  Rule  3which  relates	to  recruitment and which  was	held  to  beviolated, by the learned Single Judge ran in these terms:"Rule 3. Method of appointment and promotions:-(a)  Appointment to the several classes and categories shallbe made as indicated in Annexure 1.			ANNEXURE   ICategory 2    Method of	   Limitation	Appointing	      appointment		authority     (1)	 (2)	     (3)	  (4)Sub-Inspec-  Promotion	 Up to not	In the mofus-tors	     from Head	 more than	sil the D.I.G.	     Constables	 30% of the	Police con-			 Cadre		cerned	  Direct	  recruitment	 Nil		doThis is followed by rules 4 and 5 which read:	      "Rule 4. Right of probationers and approved	      probationers to appointment to vacancies:-A 7	      50	      vacancy in any class or category shall not  be	      filled by the appointment of a person who	 has	      not yet commenced his probation in such  class	      or category when an approved probationer or  a	      probationer  therein  is	available  for	such	      appointment."	      "Rule  5. Order of discharge  of	probationers	      and approved probationers:-	      (a)   The	 order	in  which  probationers	 and	      approved probationers. shall be discharged for	      want of vacancies shall be-	      first, the probationers in order of juniority;	      and  ,second,  the  approved  probationers  in	      order of juniority.	      (b)   The order of discharge laid down in sub-	      rule(a)  may be departed from in	cases  where	      such order would involve excessive expenditure	      on   traveling   allowance   or	 exceptional	      administrative inconvenience."The  other rules merely carry out the principles  underlyingthose extracted and do not need to be set out.To  appreciate	the points urged before us  by	the  learnedcounsel for the appellant-State on the proper interpretationof  these rules, it is necessary to set out the	 contentionsrespectively  urged by the two parties in the  Courts  belowand  how they were dealt with.	On behalf of the  respondentthe points urged were:(1)  That on a proper construction of Rule 3,  promotee-Sub-Inspectors  referred  to in departmental parlance  as  rank-promotees,  as distinguished from those	 directly  recruitedwere  entitled to be appointed to a minimum of 30 per  cent.of  the	 cadre strength and that this rule was	violated  inthat  at  the time of the respondent's reversion  the  forceconsisted  only of less than 25 per cent. of  rank-promoteesand more than 75 per cent. of those directly recruited.	  Ifthe  rule as to the proportion of appointments as laid	downin  Rule 3 had strictly been followed there would have	beenno necessity for reverting the respondent as Head Constable.(2)  The3O per cent. and the 70 per cent. laid51down  in  r.  3 applied only at the  stage  of	the  initialrecruitment  of	 Sub-Inspectors	 and  that  when  once	thatrecruitment  was  made	and the probation  of  the  officersstarted,  no difference could under the rules be  thereaftermade between the two classes of appointees but that both  ofthem constituted one unified force the members of which wereentitled  to  be  appointed to	substantive  posts  as	fullmembers of the Service solely on the basis of their inter seseniority (apart from misconduct or inefficiency, etc.). Theappointment  to	 substantive  posts  of	 officers   directlyrecruited  in  preference to persons  like  the	 respondentwhose  probation  had  commenced  at  an  earlier  date	 wastherefore a violation of r. 4 of the Service Rules.(3)  If	 at any time the cadre strength was reduced  by	 theabolition  of  temporary  posts	 there	might  have,  to  bereversions,  but  in  reverting	 officers  the	rule  as  tojuniority laid down by r. 5(a) had to be strictly  followed.This   rule  made  no  distinction  between   Sub-Inspectorsappointed directly and rank-promotees.	Both formed a singlecategory  and among them those who had not  completed  theirprobation  had	to  be reverted	 first	and  thereafter	 theapproved  probationers in the order of their juniority.	  Inthe   present  case  the  respondent  urged  that   approvedprobationers like himself who were senior to several of	 theofficiating  Sub-Inspectors  directly  recruited  had	beenreverted out of turn in violation of r. 5(a).(4)  If in the circumstances stated by the Government (whichwould  be  mentioned  later), the  directly  recruited	Sub-Inspectors  could  not properly be reverted because  of	 theassurances  given to them, Government were bound  to  retainall rank-promotee approved probationers as officiating	Sub-Inspectors  until  they could be  appointed  in	 substantivevacancies as full members thereof.In answer to these contentions the case which the State	 putforward was as follows:-(1)  The  rule	as  to	the  proportion	 between  the  rank-promotees  and direct recruits laid down by r. 3  read	withthe  Annexure,	fixed only the maximum percentage  of  rank-promotees.  The words "up to, not52more  than" meant and could in the context mean	 only,	thatthe  maximum proportion of rank-promotees could be  only  30per cent.  This was made clear by there being no  limitationplaced	on  the	 proportion of direct  recruits.   In  otherwords,	the 30 per cent. was the ceiling fixed and  not	 anyminimum and the rule in effect guaranteed direct recruits  aminimum	 proportion of 70 per cent.  There was therefore  noviolation  of  this  rule  when	 the,  proportion  of  rank-promotees  fell	 to  a	little below 25	 per  cent.  at	 therelevant date.(2)  Even if r. 3 had been strictly followed the  respondentwould  have  derived no benefit from the operation  of	thatrule  because he was well below the level of  rank-promoteeswho would even then had to be absorbed. It may be  mentionedthat  it  was  because of this feature	that  the  order  ofBalakrishna lyer, J., took    the  form	 of  directing	 theGovernment"to  forbear	from giving effect to the  order  ofreversion if the petitioner by virtue of his seniority amongpromotees can be included among 30 per cent."(3)  On a proper construction of the rules, the	 proportionslaid down in r. 3 applied whether or not at the stage of theinitial recruitment, certainly at the stage of	appointmentsto  substantive posts, i.e., absorption as full	 members  ofthe  permanent strength of the cadre.  It was their  furthercontention   based  on	the  above,  that  for	 consideringconfirmations  provided for by r. 4 the category  of  directrecruits  had  to be treated as a class different  from	 thecategory  of  rank-promotees and there was  no	question  ofseniority  as  between members of the two  groups  but	onlywithin each group.  On this basis the State Government urgedthat at the stage of absorption governed by r. 4 the rule asto  proportion	had to be worked out and  that	consequentlythere had been no violation of that rule.(4)  There  had	 been no violation of r. 5  either,  on	 twogrounds	 (1)  based  on denying that  there  was  a  unifiedcategory  of Sub-Inspectors and in putting forward that	 thetwo classes which made up the Service, viz., direct recruitsand rank-promotees formed53different  categories, and (ii) that even if they  formed  asingle	category  of officers after their  initial  appoint-ments,	there  had been no violation of the rule  fixed	 forreversion by r. 5(a) by reason of the special  circumstancesof  the case which brought their action within the  specificprovision  in  r.  5(b).   In  connection  with	 this	lastsubmission it was pointed out that at the time of the policeaction in Hyderabad a large number of persons were recruiteddirect as Sub-Inspectors to whom an assurance had been giventhat  they  would not be reverted.  A large number  of	suchtemporary   appointments  were	made  and   these   directlyrecruited Sub-Inspectors had to be provided with posts whentemporary posts were getting abolished.	 This introduced  anadministrative	problem	 which	could  be  solved  only	  byreverting the rank-promotees.We  shall now proceed to a consideration of the points	thusin  controversy between the parties and which were urged  oneither side before us.	The first point to be dealt with  isas  to whether there had been an infraction of r. 3  of	 theService Rules by reason of the proportion of  rank-promoteesbeing  less  than 30 per cent. of the total number  of	Sub-Inspectors  in	service	 at the	 date  of  the	respondent'sreversion.   As	 has already been pointed out,	the  learnedSingle	Judge  had  rested his decision	 in  favour  of	 therespondent  on an infraction of this rule, but	the  learnedJudges	of  the High Court in appeal had taken	a  differentview.  Learned Counsel for-the respondent sought to  supportthe  view that the words "up to, not more than 30 per  cent"in the rule meant up to a minimum of 30 per cent. the effectof the addition of the words "	not more than" being  merelyto  eliminate fractions and permit the number to be  roundedoff to the nearest lower integer.  It would be seen that thelearned	 Single Judge had stressed the use of the words	 "upto" and practically gave no effect to the words "  not	morethan"  in arriving at the construction that he adopted.	  Weconsider  that this construction is erroneous,	particularlyin the context of the provision as regards direct  recruits,in  regard  to	whom there is no limitation  placed  on	 theproportion which they54could  have in the Service.  Taken in conjunction with	thisprovision it is clear that the words "up to, not more  than"merely	fix the maximum percentage of rank-promotees in	 thecategory, leaving it to the appointing authorities to  adoptany  percentage below this figure.  We consequently  endorsethe  view which the learned Judges of the Andhra High  Courttook  in dissenting from the construction which the  learnedSingle	Judge placed on the scope of r. 3. The reversion  ofthe  respondent	 cannot,  therefore, be	 challenged  on	 theground that there had been an infraction of r.	  3  of	 theService Rules.The next question is as to whether r. 4 of the Service Rulesby which confirmations were regulated, had been violated  inpromoting  the	more junior direct recruits  to	 substantiveposts in preference to rankpromotees like the respondent whowere  senior  to  them	in service in  the  sense  that	 thelatter's  probation as officiating Sub-Inspectors  commencedearlier.   The application of these rules in the context  ofthe  facts  of this case depends largely  on  whether  rank-promotees  and	officers directly recruited form or  do	 notform  the same class or category becoming  integrated  into,one Service on their initial appointment to the Service.  Itis  common ground that the two classes become integrated  asmembers	 of  a	unified Service after  appointment  as	fullmembers of the Service.	 The point in controversy is limitedto the period between the date of their initial	 appointmentand  their absorption as full members.	If up to  that	datethey  formed two categories and the seniority in each  groupha,,; to be reckoned separately, the order of the Governmentwould be perfectly in order and constitute no breach of	 therules.	 But  if  on the other hand  officers  recruited  byeither	of  the two modes-promotions from the rank  of	HeadConstables  and	 Sub-Inspectors directly  recruited-form  anintegrated  and unified force from the very commencement  oftheir  appointments,  then  on	the  application  of  r.   4confirmations ought to depend on mere seniority (subject  tofactors	 relevant to merit or demerit) as  officiating	Sub-Inspectors  without regard to the manner in which they	wereoriginally appointed.  Though the55learned	 Single	 Judge	did not directly  pronounce  on	 theeffect of r. 4, the Andhra High Court held that the rule  ofseniority.prescribed  by the rule had been violated.   Afterexpressing their disagreement with the learned Single  Judgein his view that the minimum of 30 per cent. laid down by r.3 had been violated, they observed:	      "Nor  does it follow that we  can	 countenance	      the argument of the learned Government Pleader	      that   irrespective  of  the   percentage	  of	      promoters	 on the cadre at a given  time,	 all	      vacancies can be filled up, if the  Government	      so  chooses,  only with direct  recruits.	  We	      think  that from both the classes of  approved	      probationers,  be it direct recruits or be  it	      candidates from the ranks, selection should be	      made  without  any  distinction,	provided  of	      course that so far as promotees are  concerned	      the percentage of 30 is not exceeded.  Now, it	      is   admitted  by	 the  Government  that	 the	      percentage of promotees, was only 24.5 at	 the	      time when the petitioner was sent back as Head	      Constable.   That being so, it cannot be	con-	      tended for the State that the ceiling will  be	      exceeded if the petitioner is promoted.  As we	      read the rules, when once an officer qualifies	      as an approved probationer, no distinction can			    be	made  between  him  and	 a  direct  recruit	      approved probationer."We are unable to agree with the reasoning or the  conclusionhere  expressed.  It would be seen that the  learned  Judgeshave,  though tacitly, accepted the case put forward by	 theGovernment, and in our view correctly, that the	 integrationof  the two groups is only after the stage of absorption  asfull members of the Service, and that at that stage the ruleas to the proportion laid down in the annexure to r. 3 comesinto operation.	 If the 30% which is the limit set for rank-promotees for absorption as full members is merely a ceilingimposed for the benefit of direct recruits, as rightly	heldby  the learned Judges, it is difficult to see how the	rulecould be Held to be violated because the proportion of rank-promotees  confirmed  fell  below the  figure  of  30.	 We,therefore, consider that there was no violation of the	ruleas to seniority56prescribed by r. 4 in the appointment of the direct recruitsto substantive posts before the absorption of rank promoteeslike the respondent.We shall next proceed to deal with r. 5 which deals with thepower of Government to effect reversions and the  conditionsand limitations prescribed there for.It would be seen that cl. (a) of r. 5 substantially reversesfor the purpose of discharge or reversion the order in whichconfirmations  are  to be made as set out in r. 4.  We	haveheld  that  the respondent had no right under the  rules  toinsist on his being confirmed, on the terms of r. 4 read  inthe  light of r. 3. On the same line of reasoning  it  wouldfollow	that as direct recruits and rank-promotees  belongedto  distinct classes the juniority for reversion had  to  bedetermined separately for each class and not on the basis ofthe two classes forming part of a unified force before	con-firmation.   If'  this	test  were  applied,  it  cannot  becontended that the reversion of the respondent infringed  r.5(a).But  this apart, the impugned order could also be  sustainedon  the basis of the provision contained in cl. (b) of r.  5which reads:	      "The order of discharge laid down in  sub-rule	      (a)  may be departed from in cases where	such	      order  would involve excessive expenditure  on	      travelling     allowance	  or	 exceptional	      administrative inconvenience."In  the present case the Government explained  their  reasonfor  the  order	 for  reversion	 of  rank-promotees  in	 theaffidavit  which  they filed to the writ petition  in  theseterms:	      "His  reversion was necessitated by  the	fact	      that a large number of Sub-Inspectors on other			    duty in Hyderabad State reverted to this  State	      and  that a number of temporary posts  created	      for  special  purposes  during  the  disturbed	      period immediately following the police action	      in Hyderabad had to be abolished and that	 the	      direct	 recruited    Sub-Inspectors	 had	      necessarily  to be absorbed as  Sub-Inspectors	      as they cannot be asked to work in any lower				    57	      post  being  direct recruits to  a  particular	      category,	 viz.,	that of	 the  Sub-Inspector.	      This reversion of rank-promoted Sub-Inspectors	      was  rendered  absolutely	 necessary  in	 the	      exigencies  of service and for  administrative	      purposes	and as such, it cannot be deemed  to	      be  arbitrary or contrary to rules or  in	 the	      nature  of punishment as alleged by the  peti-	      tioner."It  was	 this circumstance that was stated before  the	HighCourt  of Madras in the Writ Petition as that which  broughtthe   impugned	order  of  reversion   within	"exceptionaladministrative inconvenience" provided for by the last wordsof  the rule.  The learned Single Judge accepted as  correctthe  facts  stated by the Government as the reason  for	 thereversion, stating:	      "Mr.     Seshachalapathi	  explained	that	      Government  were in a difficult position as  a	      consequence of the members taken in connection	      with the police action in Hyderabad.  A  large	      number  of persons were directly recruited  as	      Sub-Inspectors  on  the  assurance  that	they	      would  not be ousted.  I do not  suggest	that	      Government  should  go back on  any  assurance	      that  they  may  have given  to  these  direct	      recruits.	  Far  be it from  me  to  encourage	      anything that might savour of bad faith on the	      part of Government...... But I would still say	      that  in order that Government may keep  faith	      with  those  whom they recruited	directly  as	      Sub-Inspectors they cannot break faith with or	      ignore  the rights of those who were  promoted	      as Sub-Inspectors."If  the facts were accepted as correct, and we	might  pointout  that their accuracy was never challenged at  any  stageeither in the High Court or before us, it appears to us thatthe  order of reversion passed would be justified  as  beingcovered by the last words of cl. (b) even if the order	laiddown  in r. 5(a) were infringed.  In these circumstances  itis not clear why the learned Judge should have observed:"The Government do not rest their case on Rule 5(b)"when the facts stated by Government and accepted by 858him  brought  their  action well within the  scope  of	thatclause.	  In their memorandum of grounds in Writ Appeal	 No.122  of	 1954 which the State filed to the  High  Court	 theappellants  urged: "The learned Judge failed  to  appreciatethe  special circumstances of the situation  which  renderedthe  reversion	necessary in the instant  case".   When	 thematter	was  before  the High Court of	Andhra	the  learnedJudges	observed"The learned Judge stated in  his,  judgmentthat  the Government do not rest their case on	Rule  5(b)".In  their turn they too accepted the case of the  Governmentas regards the circumstances which necessitated the order ofreversion  and	observed: "The	Government  frankly  stated,however, that they were in a difficult position because	 ofcertain	 measures  which  they were  compelled	to  take  inconnection with the police action in Hyderabad when a  largenumber of persons were directly recruited as  Sub-Inspectorswith  the  assurance  that they would  be  entertained	per-manently.  In order to keep that assurance with such personsthey were constrained to revert the rank-promotees but thereis  no rule which enables the Government to do so." We	mustexpress our dissent from the last sentence extracted  above,because	 r.  5(b) makes specific provision for an  order  ofdischarge laid down in cl. (a) being departed from in  caseswhere  such order would entail	"exceptional  administrativeinconvenience" and on the facts accepted both by the learnedSingle	Judge  and  by the High Court of  appeal  the  wordsextracted were attracted.Before	leaving r. 5 there is one other matter to  which  wedesire to advert and that relates to the observation of	 theHigh  Court in the judgment now under appeal which seems  toimply  that  if the Government found  itself  in  difficultyowing  to  the	assurances given to  the  officers  directlyrecruited, they could under the rules have solved it, not byordering   the	reversion  of  the  rank-promotees  but	  bycontinuing them in their officiating posts until they  couldbe absorbed as full members of the Service.  This was one ofthe  contentions  urged by the respondent  and	the  learnedJudges say:59	      "It  seems  to  us  clear	 that  whether	they	      imposed  merely a ceiling or whether there  is	      an  obligation upon the Government to fill  up	      30  per  cent.  of the  vacancies	 from  among	      promotees, the State cannot say, on the facts,	      before  us,  that there are no  vacancies	 for	      promotees as such."It  looks  to  us impossible to support	 this  view  on	 anyconstruction  of the rules.  In effect it means either	thattemporary  posts  could not be abolished, or  that  approvedprobationers  could not be reverted.  The first	 alternativecould not obviously have been meant and the other is plainlycontrary  to the terms of r. 5(a) which makes provision	 forthe  reversion	of approved probationers.  Of course,  as  ameasure	 of  relief  to	 their	subordinates  and  to  avoidhardship  to  them Government might retain people  in  theirofficiating  posts,  but it is quite a	different  thing  toimport	a legal and enforceable obligation on their part  todo so.In the view that we have taken that there has been no breachof  the	 Service  Rules in ordering  the  reversion  of	 therespondent  as a Head Constable, the question as to  whetheran infraction of a Service Rule confers a legal right  whichcould  be  agitated  in Court does not	arise.	 We  do	 notpropose, therefore, to consider that question and indeed  wedid not call upon learned counsel for the appellant to arguethat part of his case.The appeal is accordingly allowed, the judgment of the	HighCourt set aside and Writ Petition No. 524 of 1953 dismissed.In  view  of the order of the High Court dated	February  3,1956, by which the appellant was granted a certificate underArt. 133(1)(c) of the Constitution subject to the  conditionthat  the  respondent would be entitled to his	taxed  costsincurred  in  this Court in any event  from  the  appellant,there will be an order that the appellant will pay the costsof the respondents in the appeal, in this Court.Appeal allowed.60