PETITIONER:MOBARIK ALI AHMED	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/09/1957BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  857		  1958 SCR  328ACT:Criminal   Law-Foreigner-Resident   outside    India-Offencecommitted  in  lndia--Conviction by Indian Court  under	 thelndian	Penal Code-Legality-Offendey extradited and  broughtto India Arrest for a fresh offence and conviction-Validity-Charge under s.	    420 read with s. 34 Of the Indian  PenalCode-Conviction under s. 420   alone-Legality'	 ExtraditionAct, 1870 33 & 34 Vict. C. 52),s.  3(2)-Fugitive   OffendersAct,  1881, (44 & 45 Vict. c. 69). s. 8- Indian	 Penal	Code(Act XLV of 1860), ss. 2, 34, 420.HEADNOTE:The  appellant,	 a  Pakistani  national	 doing	business  inKarachi,  was convicted of the offence of cheating under  s.420 Of the Indian Penal Code.  The prosecution case was thatwith a dishonest intention he made false representations  tothe  complainant  at Bombay through letters,  telegrams	 andtelephone  talks, that he had ready stock of rice,  that  hehad reserved shipping space and on receipt of money he wouldbe  in a position to ship the rice forthwith, and  that	 thecomplainant who was anxious to import rice urgently sent theamount	 to   the   appellant  on   the	  belief   of	suchrepresentations.   It was contended for the  appellant	thatthe conviction was bad on the grounds inter alia (1) that hewas  a Pakistani national who, during the entire  period  ofthe commission of the offence, never stepped into India	 andwas  only  at Karachi and that he could not be tried  by  anIndian Court nor be punishable under the Indian Penal  Code,(2) that lie329was  brought over from England, where he happened to be,  byvirtue of extradition proceedings in connection with anotheroffence the trial for which was then pending in the SessionsCourt at Bombay, and that he could not be validly tried	 andconvicted for a different offence like the present, and	 (3)that  the charge being one under s. 42o read with s.  34  ofthe  Indian Penal Code for alleged conjoint acts of  himselfalong with three others and those three not being before theCourt,	and himself not having been in Bombay at  the  time,the conviction was unsustainable.Held:	  (1)  that,  on  the  facts,  all  the	 ingredientsconstituting  the  offence of cheating under S. 420  Of	 theIndian Penal Code having occurred in Bombay, the offence wascommitted  there  and  that, though the	 appellant  was	 notcorporeally  present in India at the time of the  commissionof  the offence, his conviction under the Indian Penal	Codewas valid in view of the terms of s. 2 of the Code;(2)  that,  as the appellant was surrendered to	 the  Indianauthorities  under  the Fugitive Offenders  Act,  1881,	 andthere  was  no provision in that Act  preventing  arrest  inIndia  for  the	 purpose of a trial in respect	of  a  freshoffence, his conviction following upon his trial was valid.H.   N.	 Rishbud  v. The State of Delhi, (1955)	 1  S.C.  R.II50, relied on.(3)  that the conviction of the appellant of the offence ofS.   420  was valid, though the charge was one under S.	 420read  with s. 34, as the actual findings in the	 case  couldsupport a conviction under S. 420 itself.Willie	(William  Slaney) v. The State	of  Madhya  Pradesh,(1955) 2 S.C.R. II40, relied on.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION	  Criminal Appeal No. 200 of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly  20, 1954, of the Bombay High Court in Criminal  AppealNo.  1596  of 1953, arising out of the	judgment  and  orderdated  September  23, 1953, of the Court of  the  AdditionalChief  Presidency Magistrate, 3rd Court, Esplanade,  Bombay,in Case No. 31/W of 1953.A.   P. Gandhi and J. B. Dadachanji, for the appellant.H.   J. Umrigar and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1957.  September 6. The following Judgment of the Court	 wasdelivered by330JAGANNADHADAS  J.-This is an appeal by special	leave.	 Theappellant before us was convicted by the learned  PresidencyMagistrate, Third Court, Esplanade, Bombay, for the  offenceof cheating under s. 420 read with s. 34 of the Indian PenalCode  on three counts of cheating, viz., the first  relatingto a sum of Rs. 81,000, the second relating to a sum of	 Rs.2,30,000,  and the third relating to a sum of Rs.  2,36,900.He  was	 sentenced by-the learned Magistrate  to  two  yearsrigorous  imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1,000 on the  firstcount, to twenty-two months rigorous imprisonment and a fineof  Rs. 1,000 on the second count, and two  months  rigorousimprisonment  on the third count.  It was directed that	 thesubstantive  sentences only on the second and  third  countsare to run concurrently.The  prosecution was initiated on a private complaint  filedby  one	 Louis Anton Cornea on June 30, 1952,  against	fourpersons of whom the appellant was designated therein as	 thefirst accused and one Santram as the fourth accused and	 twoother  persons, A. A. Rowji and S. A. Rowji, as	 second	 andthird  accused respectively.  Bailable warrants were  issuedagainst	 all  the  four by the	learned	 Magistrate  but  itappears that warrants could not be executed against  accused2, 3 and 4. They were reported as absconding.  The trial wasaccordingly separated as against them and proceeded only  asagainst	 (the  first  accused) the  appellant  herein.	 Theconvictions  and sentences have been confirmed on appeal  bythe High Court at Bombay.The  complainant  is  a businessman from  Goa  and  was	 thedirector  of a firm in Goa which was trading in the name  ofColonial  Limitada doing business in import and export.	  Atthe relevant time there was severe scarcity of rice in	Goa.The  complainant  was  accordingly anxious  to	import	riceurgently  into Goa.  He got into touch with a friend of	 hisby name Rosario Carvalho in Bombay who was doing business asa  commission  agent.  Carvalho in his turn got	 into  touchwith one Jasawalla who was also doing business of commissionagent at Bombay in the name of Universal Supply Corporation.This Jasawalla was previously331in correspondence with the appellant about business in rice.The  appellant	was  at the time in Karachi  and  was  doingbusiness  in  the  name	 of  Atlas  Industrial	and  TradingCorporation and also in the name of Ifthiar Ahmed & Co.	 Thetelegraphic  address of the complainant was  Colodingco	 andthat of the appellant was Ifthy.  As a result of exchange oftelegrams, letters and telephone messages between  Jasawallaand the appellant on one side, Jasawalla and the complainanton  the	 other, followed up by direct contacts	between	 theappellant  and the complainant through telephone,  telegramsand  letters, a contract was brought about for purchase,  bythe complainant from the appellant, of 1,200 tons of rice atthe rate of pound 51 per ton, to be shipped from Karachi  toGoa.   The  contract  appears originally to  have  been	 forpayment of the price in sterling at Karachi.  But it is	 theprosecution case (which has been accepted by both the courtsbelow) that a subsequent arrangement was arrived at  betweenthe parties by which the payment was to be made in Bombay inIndian currency, in view of the difficulties experienced  inopening a letter of credit in a Bank at Karachi through	 thePortuguese  Bank at Goa.  It is also the  prosecution  case,which has been accepted, that the understanding was that 25%of the price was to be paid as advance by the complainant toJasawalla as the agent of the appellant for this purpose andthat  on receiving intimation thereof the appellant  was  toship the rice and that the balance of the purchase money wasto  be paid on presentation of the shipping  documents.	  Itappears	 that  at a later stage the quantity of rice  to  besupplied was raised to 2,000 tons and advance to be paid  to50%  of	 the  total  stipulated	 price.	  It  is  also	 theprosecution  case that the appellant represented at  variousstages	by  telephone  talks,  telegrams,  and	letters,  toJasawalla as well as to the complainant directly that he hadadequate  stock	 of rice and that he had  reserved  shippingspace in certain steamers which were about to leave for	 Goaand  that  he was in a position to ship the  rice  on  beingsatisfied  that	 the requisite advance was paid.  It  is  inevidence that on receiving such assurances, the complainant43332paid  moneys  as  shown	 below	to  Jasawalla  and  obtainedreceipts  from	him,  purporting  to be	 the  agent  of	 theappellant.     1. On July 23, 1951	  ...Rs. 81,000     2. On August 28, 1951	   ...Rs. 2,30,000     3. On August 29, 1951	  ... Rs. 2,36,900     All these amounts are held to have been received by theappellant in due course.  It is admitted, however., that  norice was in fact shipped to the complainant and the  amountshave not been returned back to the complainant.	 The defenceof the appellant is to the effect that the amounts were	 notin fact paid to any person who was his agent and not in factreceived by him at all and that he was unable to supply	 therice as the complainant did not comply with the terms of thecontract by opening a letter of credit at Karachi or  payinghim  in	 Pakistani  currency.  This  defence  has  not	beenaccepted and the appellant has been found guilty as  chargedby  the	 courts	 below.	  He  was  therefore  convicted	 andsentenced as above stated.It is necessary to set out somewhat in detail the  essentialfacts  held  to	 have been proved by  the  courts  below  toappreciate the legal contentions that have been urged beforeus.   As previously stated, the complainant got	 into  touchwith  his friend Carvalho of Bombay to help him	 in  gettingrice  for consumption in Goa and Carvalho in turn  contactedJasawalla for the purpose.  Before that time, Jasawalla,  inthe course of his usual business, had received a letter, Ex.0,  dated June 5, 1951, from the appellant offering that  hewould  be  prepared to do business in rice if  a  letter  ofcredit	is  opened  or	cash payment  is  made	in  Karachi.Carvalho  came to know of this from Jasawalla  and  informedthe  complainant.   Jasawalla  also wrote a  letter  to	 thecomplainant.   The complainant sent a telegram	showing	 hiswillingness  to open credit, if 1,200 tons of rice could  beshipped	 to  Goa.  Jasawalla wrote a letter, Ex.   P,  datedJune  6, 1951, to the appellant quoting the telegram of	 thecomplainant  and asking for an offer.  The appellant by	 hisletter dated June 10 to Jasawalla, offered to supply as333much  rice  as he wanted and demanded 25%  cash	 payment  asadvance.    After   some  tripartite   correspondence,	 theappellant  by  his letter dated June 26,  agreed  to  acceptmoney in Bombay, at the price of  pound 51 per ton of  rice.Jasawalla  by  telegram	 dated July 5,	1931,  informed	 theappellant  that the Goa party accepted the 25%	arrangement.The  appellant by a letter dated July 7, accepted the  offerbut  wanted  50%  deposit  and	gave  time  till  the  10th,suggesting  that since the rice was scarce the deal must  befinished   at  once.   Jasawalla  intimated  this   to	 thecomplainant  and asked him to start at once with  money	 andinformed him that if there was delay the party at the  otherend  would  claim damages.  The appellant did  not  get	 anyinformation for the next few days.  He accordingly sent	 oneSantram (accused 4 in the complaint) to Bombay as his  agentfor discussing the matter in question and authorising him tofix the deal on the spot.  Santram appears to have fixed thebargain	 for shipping 1,200 tons of rice on the	 complainantpaying	an  advance  sum of Rs. 1,50,000 at  Bombay  as	 25%deposit	 towards the price of the said 1,200 tons  of  rice.On receipt of this information the appellant wrote a  letterdated  July  12,  to  Jasawalla	 wherein  he  confirmed	 thearrangement arrived at by Santram.  Jasawalla was  thereupontaken by Santram to accused 2 and 3. They were introduced tohim  as the agents of the appellant who were to receive	 themoneys in this transaction on appellant's behalf At the sametime  the  appellant was also writing letters  to  Jasawallawhich  seem  to	 indicate that he was trying  to  shift	 hisposition  by asking for 50% as advance deposit.	 For  a	 fewdays  thereafter the complainant did not turn up  at  Bombaywith the funds and the appellant by his telegram dated	July16,  asked  Jasawalla why there is  no	further	 informationabout  the  transaction.  By a telegram dated  July  17,  heinformed  Jasawalla that S. S. Olinda was sailing in  a	 fewdays and that it would be too late to ship the rice and thatthe matter should be hurried up. On July 18, the complainantsent  a	 telegram  to Jasawalla informing him  that  he	 wascoming with334funds and that if the rice was not shipped it may be shippedby  S.S.  Olinda which was about to start on July  21.	 Theappellant  also	 sent a telegram to Jasawalla  on  July	 18,asking	why  the  deal was not coming on  and  that  he	 hadalready reserved space by the steamer of the 21st.  On	July19  again Jasawalla received a telegram from  the  appellantinforming  him	definitely that space was  reserved  in	 thesteamer.  The complainant also sent a telegram to  Jasawallaon the same day informing him that he was coming and that atleast  500  tons must be shipped at once.   The	 complainant-arrived  at  Bombay on July 20.  The indent,  Ex.   A,	 wasprepared in triplicate and signed by the complainant on	 thesame day.  The complainant brought cheques and drafts to thetune of Rs. 81,000.  It would appear that at this stage	 thecomplainant  was asking that, he should be allowed (for	 thetime  being)  to deposit only Rs. 50,000 as  deposit  for  ashipment  of  500  tons.  But appellant	 insisted  that	 Rs.1,50,000  should be paid as advance for 1,200 tons.   On  orabout July 21, the appellant sent a letter to Jasawalla witha  pro-forma  receipt for Rs. 1,50,000 signed by him  to  bemade  use  of  by Jasawalla in whatever	 manner	 he  thoughtproper	in connection with the transaction then	 under	way.The said receipt was shown to the complainant who Was  shownalso  the  other correspondence that was received  from	 theappellant.   Jasawalla by his letter dated July 22,  to	 theappellant  confirmed the shipment of the deal of 1,200	tonsof  rice  and intimated that some portion of the  money	 wasimmediately ready and some portion would be brought in a dayor two, totalling over Rs. 80,000 and that the balance wouldbe  paid after hearing about shipment of 1,200	tons.	Thiswas  agreed  to	 by the appellant.  On	July  23,  Jasawallatelephoned  to	the appellant that he was going to  pay	 themoney  to  accused 2 as directed by the	 appellant.  In	 theafternoon of that very day the parties went to the office ofaccused 2 and there was again a further conversation on	 thephone  with  the appellant who, on the phone,  conveyed	 theassurance  that	 payment to accused 2 would be	as  good  aspayment to himself.335The  complainant and Carvalho were hearing both the  morningand afternoon talks between the appellant and Jasawalla,  ona  second line.	 Thereupon the complainant paid the  sum  ofRs.  81,000  to	 Jasawalla who passed  a  receipt  (Ex.	  B)therefor on behalf of the appellant and the said amount	 waspassed	on  to	accused	 2. The fact  of  this	payment	 wasintimated  to  the appellant by telephone as well  as  by  atelegram.   A  letter  was also written on July	 24  to	 theappellant referring to the telephone calls and telegram	 andinforming  him that the amount was paid.  He was also  askedtherein to ship the rice at once promising that the  balancewill  be  paid in a week.  On July 23 itself  the  appellantsent a telegram saying that he had received the messages andwas trying to book 1,000 tons.	According to the prosecutioncase the appellant having received the sum of Rs. 81,000  asabove, changed his front from July 24, 1951.  The facts heldto  have been proved in respect of this change of front	 maynow be stated.On July 24, 1951, the appellant sent to Jasawalla a telegrammentioning  difficulties created by the Exchange  Controllerin shipping the goods.	When Jasawalla conveyed his  protestand  insisted  upon the shipping of the goods at  once,	 theappellant sent a telegram on July 25, informing him that thedifficulties  were of a minor character and that  the  spacefor shipping was already booked.  Jasawalla by his  telegramof the same date asked for confirmation of loading of  1,200tons  by  S. S. Olinda and requested him that  if  the	fullquantity  could	 not be loaded, a portion thereof  might  besent  immediately.  The appellant by his letter	 dated	July26,  acknowledged Jasawalla's letter dated  23rd  (informinghim about the payment of Rs. 81,000) and intimated that	 therice  would  be	 shipped by the next steamer  S.  S.  Umariasailing	 for Malaya and that the said steamer can touch	 Goaif  the	 quantity of rice to be shipped is raised  to  2,000tons.	By  a  letter dated  July  26,	Jasawalla  protestedagainst	 the new condition.  The complainant sent  a  letterdated  July  27, to Jasawalla asking whether  the  rice	 wasshipped by S. S. Olinda336or  not.   On  July 27, the appellant  sent  a	telegram  toJasawalla   asking  for	 bank-guarantee	 (for	payment	  ofbalance)..  It	does not appear that any question  of  bank-guarantee  was	raised	in the	correspondence	between	 theparties, after Santram (accused 4) fixed up the deal on	 thefooting	 of payment of advance of Rs. 1,50,000, in  cash  atBombay	by  way of 25% deposit.	 On  receiving	this  letterraising the question of bank-guarantee, Jasawalla wrote backon  the 27th to the appellant about the change of front	 andcharging  him with cheating and not fulfilling his  part  ofthe  contract after receiving the money.  By a letter  datedJuly  30 and also a telegram of the same date the  appellantreplied to Jasawalla wherein he promised to send the rice byS.  S. Umaria and also threatened to break off	negotiationsif  the	 parties  bad  no  confidence  in  him.	   Jasawallathereupon asked the appellant by telegram to fix the sailingdate  of S. S. Umaria and inform him.  The  appellant  wroteback  on  August  1,  admitting	 receipt  of  letters	fromJasawalla  and attempting to pacify him.  Jasawalla  repliedthanking him and asked for a clear date of the sailing of S.S.  Umaria.  By that time Jasawalla had made enquiries	withMackinons  &  Mackenzie (shipping agents) and  was  informedthat  no shipping space had been reserved by  the  appellantand  found the statement of the appellant in this behalf  tobe  false.   Jasawalla sent copies  of	this  correspondencebetween	 him  and the appellant to  the	 complainant.	Thatcorrespondence indicated the appellant's position to be thatthe  rice would be shipped by S. S. Umaria only if the	loadcould  be  increased to 2,000 tons and	that  the  appellantstated	that he got the sailing of S. S. Umaria	 delayed  bytwo  days  for	the  purpose.	The  complainant   thereuponinformed  Jasawalla that he was prepared to accept  the	 newdeal for 2,000 tons.  Jasawalla by his telegram dated August2,  to the appellant confirmed this new arrangement  and  byanother	 telegram  dated August 3, asked  the  appellant  tohurry up with the shipment.  Thereafter the appellant raiseda  fresh matter.  On August 6, the appellant sent  a  directtelegram to the complainant337and  asked  him	 to request  the  portuguese  Pro-Consul  atKarachi to obtain exchange-guarantee.  Between August 7	 and12,  several  letters  and  telegrams  passed  between	 thecomplainant and Jasawalla on the one hand and the  appellanton the other.  As a result of efforts made in this interval,it appears that the Pro.  Consul, Mr. Alphonso, was preparedto give the exchange-guarantee of the State Bank of Pakistanfor payment in sterling of the price of rice.  The appellantthen by his letter dated August 13, informed Jasawalla	thatthe  State Bank was not insisting on exchange guarantee	 butthat  it would be sufficient if a certificate was issued  bythe  Portuguese	 authority that the rice  was  required	 forreplenishing the ration shops in Goa.  A similar letter	 wasalso  written  by  the	appellant  on  August  14,  to	 thecomplainant.	Thereupon  the	complainant  and   Jasawallaapproached  the	 concerned authority at Goa, viz.,  one	 Mr.Campos,	 the Trade Agent to the Portuguese Government.	 Mr.Campos	thereupon sent telegrams on August 16, to the  StateBank  of Pakistan, to the Pro-Consul, Mr. Alphonso,  and  tothe   appellant	 certifying  that  rice	 was  required	 forreplenishing the ration shops in Goa.After  this  there was a further change of  tactics  by	 theappellant.   By	 a  telegram  dated  August  20,  1951,	 theappellant  informed the complainant that the  papers  beforethe Government were ready and that he had done his best	 butthat payment must be made.  In reply the complainant sent  atelegram  to the appellant on the same date stating that  hedid not understand the contents of his telegram and promisedto  send  the  balance on  loading.   The  complainant	alsoinformed Jasawalla about these telegrams exchanged.  betweenhim and the appellant.	This was followed up by some furthercorrespondence	between	 the  parties  on  August  22.	 Theappellant  sent	 telegrams both to the	complainant  and  toJasawalla demanding 90% deposit as advance and threatened tobreak off if it was not complied with.	Thereupon  Jasawallasent  a telegram; on the 22nd to the complainant to come  toBombay.' He informed the appellant the same day that the338complainant  was coming down to Bombay to arrange  'for	 50%deposit	 and asked the appellant to start loading.   On	 the24th  he wrote also a letter to the appellant to the  effectthat the complainant would pay 50% advance minus the  amountalready paid and informed him that the complainant would flyto   Karachi  to  supervise  the  loading.   The   appellantthereupon sent a telegram dated the 25th informing Jasawallathat everything was ready but hinted about the opening of  aletter of credit.  Again on August 27, the appellant sent  atelegram  to  Jasawalla that stocks could  not	be  releasedunless	the arrangement was fulfilled, i.e., 90% amount	 waspaid.	The  complainant  came to  Bombay  with	 drafts	 andcheques	 to  the tune of about Rs.  4,75,000  and  contactedJasawalla.   He contacted also the appellant on	 phone.	  Hepaid  the  sum	of  Rs. 2,30,000  on  August  28,  1951,  toJasawalla who passed a receipt, Ex.  F, therefor, on  behalfof  the	 appellant.   On August	 29,  the  complainant	paidanother	 sum  of  Rs. 2,36,900 to Jasawalla  who  passed  a,receipt,  Ex.  G, therefor, on behalf of the appellant.	  Itis  the	 case of the prosecution that both these  were	alsopassed	on  to	the second accused and through	him  to	 theappellant  and	that the appellant acknowledged	 receipt  ofthese  amounts in his correspondence and that case has	beenalso  accepted.	  On the 29th itself. the appellant  sent  atelegram to Jasawalla as follows:"Part consignment received, rest tomorrow, Pentakota for the1st  certain goods required alongside.	" on  receiving	this telegram Jasawalla informed  him  by  atelegram dated August 31, that he was shocked that no  spacewas  reserved, though everything had been done on his  side.The  appellant sent a reply by telegram dated  September  1,1951,  protesting against the language used by Jasawalla  inthe  telegram and informed him that space was  reserved	 butthe  Company  could  not  wait as the  goods  could  not  beshipped.   On September 5, the appellant informed  Jasawallaby  a letter that space was reserved by S.S.  Pentakota	 andthat  everything  was  ready for  shipment.   Meanwhile	 thecomplainant  feeling  very  nervous and	 anxious  about	 thefulfilment of the transaction proceeded in339person	 to  Karachi  on  September  4.	 According  to	 thecomplainant  he stayed at Karachi for about two	 weeks.	  Hewas shown some godowns containing rice bags suggesting	thatthey belonged to the appellant and were ready for  shipmentsBut  he was not afforded any opportunity for verifying	thatthe  stock  was	 intended for shipment	in  respect  of	 histransaction.  The complainant went to Karachi on a Visa	 forthree  months.	But after a stay of less than two  weeks  hewas served with a quit-order from the Pakistan Government onSeptember  18,	and was bundled out of Karachi.	 It  is	 thecomplainant's  impression  that this was manoeuvred  by	 theappellant.   On	 his return back, correspondence  was  againresumed	 between  the appellant and the complainant.   By  aletter	dated September 21, the appellant promised  to	shipthe  goods  by S.S. Ismalia which would not  be	 sailing  inSeptember but would leave on October 3. On September 23, theappellant sent another letter stating that S.S. Ismalia	 wasarriving-on  October 3 and not on September 26.	 On  October3,  the	 appellant wrote another letter to  the	 complainantinforming  him	that S.S. Ismalia was  not  available.	 Thecomplainant  thereafter	 sent a telegram  to  the  appellantdated  September 29, calling upon him to ship the  goods  byS.S.  Shahjehan	 if  S.S. Ismalia was  not  available.	 Thecomplainant by a further letter dated October 1, called uponthe appellant to ship the rice at once.	 By a telegram datedOctober 2, the appellant informed the complainant that	S.S.Shahjeban was arriving the, next day and that he would	wirethe  position.	By his telegram dated the 3rd,	he  informedthe complainant that the loading had commenced.	 On  October6,  the	 complainant  received	another	 telegram  from	 theappellant  that he would not ship per S.S.  Shahjehan  untildemands in his letter dated September 29 are complied  with.It  is the complainant's case that no such letter  was	everreceived by him., Jasawalla also informed the appellant thatno  letter  dated September 29 was  received.	By  telegramdated  October 8, 1951, Jasawalla called upon the  appellantto refund the money and cancel the contract.  On October 12,the appellant sent a telegram 44340which conveyed a suggestion that he would ship rice by	S.S.Shahjehan  arriving  on October 19, instead  of	 October  9.There  were  some further telegrams exchanged.	Finally	 thecomplainant sent a telegram on October 26, calling upon	 theappellant  to  ship rice immediately or	 refund	 the  money.This  was  followed by further	exchange  of  correspondencewhich  ultimately resulted in a letter by the  appellant  tothe   complainant  dated  November  17,	 denying   all	 theallegations made against him.The above facts were held to have been proved by the  courtsbelow on the basis of a good. deal of correspondence betweenthe   parties  consisting  of  telegrams  and  letters	 andsupported  by  the oral evidence mainly	 of  three  persons,viz.,  (1)  the complainant, (2) Jasawalla, and (3)  an	 ex-employee of the appellant at Karachi by name Sequeria.	 Allthis  evidence has been accepted by the courts	below  afterfull  consideration of the various comments  and  criticismsagainst acceptability of the same.In  a  case of this kind a question may well  arise  at	 theoutset whether the evidence discloses only a breach of civilliability  or  a  criminal offence.  That  of  course  woulddepend	upon  whether the complainant in  parting  with	 hismoney  to  the tune of about Rs. 5 1/2 lakhs  acted  on	 therepresentations of the appellant and in belief of the  truththereof and whether those representations, when made were infact false to the knowledge of the appellant and whether theappellant  had a dishonest intention from the outset.	Boththe courts below have found these facts specifically againstthe  appellant in categorical terms.  These being  questionsof fact are no longer open to challenge in this Court beforeus in an appeal on special leave.Learned counsel for the appellant accordingly raised  beforeus the following contentions:1.The  appellant  is a Pakistani national, who,	 during	 theentire period of the commission of the offence never steppedinto  India and was only at Karachi.  Hence he committed  nooffence punishable under the Indian Penal Code and cannot betried by an Indian Court.3412.The  appellant  was brought over from	 England,  where  hehappened  to  be, by virtue of	extradition  proceedings  inconnection  with another offence, the' trial for  which	 wasthen pending in the Sessions Court at Bombay and accordinglyhe could not be validly tried and convicted for a  differentoffence like the present.3.   The various telegrams and letters relied upon by theprosecution were held to have been proved on legallyinadmissible material.4.   The  charge being under s. 420 read with s. 34  of	 theIndian Penal Code for alleged conjoint acts of the appellantalong with the persons designated as accused 2, 3 and 4,  inthe  complaint and the said three accused not  being  beforethe Court and the appellant not having been in Bombay at thetime, the conviction is unsustainable.We  have heard elaborate arguments on all these matters	 buthave   felt  satisfied	that  there  is	 no   substance	  incontentions  2, 3 and 4 above.	Accordingly we did not	callupon the counsel for the State to reply to the same.  It is,therefore,  unnecessary	 to deal with them  at	any  length.They will be disposed of in the first instance.To  understand	contention 3, it is convenient to  take	 theletters	 and telegrams separately.  The letters	 which	havebeen relied on for the prosecution fall under the  followingcategories.1.   Letters  from the appellant either to Jasawalla  or  tothe complainant.2.   Letters   to  the	appellant  from	 Jasawalla  or	 thecomplainant.Most of the letters from the appellant relied upon bear whatpurport to be his signatures.  A few of them are admitted bythe  appellant.	  There	 are  also  a  few  letters  withoutsignatures.  Both the complainant and Jasawalla speak to thesignatures  on	the  other letters.  The  objection  of	 thelearned	 counsel for the appellant is that neither  of	themhas actually seen the appellant write any of the letters norare  they shown to have such intimate acquaintance with	 hiscorrespondence,342as  to	enable	them to speak to the  genuineness  of  thesesignatures.   Learned  trial Judge as well  as	the  learnedJudges	of  the	 High  Court  have  found  that	 there	weresufficient number of admitted or proved letters which  mightwell  enable Jasawalla and the complainant to  identify	 thesignatures  of the appellant in the disputed letters.	Theyalso  laid  stress  substantially on  the  contents  of	 thevarious	 letters,  in the context of the other	letters	 andtelegrams to which they purport to be replies and which formthe chain of correspondence as indicating the genuineness ofthe  disputed  letters.	 Learned counsel  objected  to	thisapproach on a question of proof.  We are, however, unable tosee  any  objection.   The proof of  the  genuineness  of  adocument  is proof of the authorship of the document and  isproof  of a fact like that of any other fact.  The  evidencerelating  thereto may be direct or circumstantial.   It	 mayconsist of direct evidence of a person who saw the  documentbeing  written	or the signature being affixed.	 It  may  beproof  of  the	handwriting  of	 the  contents,	 or  of	 thesignature, by one of the modes provided in ss. 45 and 47  ofthe Indian Evidence Act.  It may also be proved by  internalevidence  afforded  by the contents of the  document.	Thislast  mode of proof by the contents may be  of	considerablevalue where the disputed document purports to be a link in achain  of correspondence, some links in which are proved  tothe  satisfaction  of the court.  In such  a  situation	 theperson who is the recipient of the document, be it either  aletter or a telegram, would be in a reasonably good positionboth with reference to his prior knowledge of the writing orthe  signature of the alleged sender, limited though it	 maybe, as also his knowledge of the subject matter of the chainof  correspondence,  to	 speak to  its	authorship.   In  anappropriate  case  the court may also be in  a	position  tojudge whether the document constitutes a genuine link in thechain	of   correspondence  and  thus	to   determine	 itsauthorship.   We  are  unable, therefore, to  say  that	 theapproach  adopted  by the courts below in  arriving  at	 theconclusion  that  the  letters are genuine is  open  to	 anyserious legal objection.  The question, if any, can343only  be  as to the adequacy of the material  on  which	 theconclusion  as to the genuineness of the letters is  arrivedat.   That however is a matter which we cannot permit to  becanvassed before us.A  few	of the letters said to have been received  from	 theappellant,  as	stated above, do not  bear  his	 signatures.These were held to have been proved by the,,  circumstantialevidence as pointed out and we see no objection thereto.The  next objection is as regards the letters said  to	havebeen sent by Jasawalla and the complainant to the appellant.Jasawalla  and the complainant have produced copies  of	 theoriginals.   It	 has been contended that  these	 copies	 areinadmissible.  But such a contention is obviously untenable.The  appellant cannot be expected to produce them, if  true,since  be disputes them.  There is also the evidence of	 hisex-employee, Sequeria, that the originals were received	 buttaken  away by his son.	 The main contention in	 respect  ofthese  letters	is  that there is no proof  that  they	werereceived by the appellant at Karachi.  It is contended	thatevidence  given by either Jasawalla or the complainant	thatthe  originals	were written and posted is not	relevant  toshow that the same have been received.	It is urged that theproof  of  mere	 posting  of a	letter	is  not	 presumptiveevidence  of  the receipt thereof by  the  addressee  unlessthere is also proof that the original has not been  returnedfrom  the Dead Letter Office.  Illustration (b) to s. 16  ofthe Indian Evidence Act, 1872, is relied on for the  purposeand  it	 is  urged that a combination of the  two  facts  isrequired  to raise such a presumption.	We are	quite  clearthat  the  illustration only means that each  one  of  thesefacts  is  relevant.  It cannot be read as  indicating	thatwithout	 a  combination of these facts	no  presumption	 canarise.	'Indeed that section with the illustrations  theretohas nothing to do with presumptions but only with relevance.Some  cases relating to this have been cited before us.	  Wehave considered the same but it is unnecessary to deal	withthem.Next  taking  the question relating to	telegrams  the	mainobjection is as to the proof of the genuineness of344the  various telegrams said to have been received  from	 theappellant.  In this case since we are largely concerned withthe nature and contents of the representations said to	havebeen made by the accused to the complainant or to Jasawalla,it  is obvious that what are relevant or important  are	 thetelegraphic   messages	delivered  to  the  complainant	  orJasawalla  provided the authorship of the original  is	madeout.   These  messages	have been proved  by  producing	 themessages actually handed over. to either of these persons orthe  transit  copies  of  the  originals  recorded  at	 thereceiving  end.	 The real objection, however, appears to  bethat  there is no proof as to the appellant having been	 theauthor	of these messages.  It is true that under s.  88  ofthe  Evidence  Act  there is a	presumption  only  that	 themessage	 received  by  the addressee  corresponds  with	 themessage delivered for transmission at the office of  origin.There is no presumption as to the person who delivered	sucha  message  for	 transmission.	 But  here  again  proof  ofauthorship  of	the message need not be direct	and  may  becircumstantial	as has been explained above in the  case  ofletters.   The	contents of the messages  received,  in	 thecontext	 of  the chain of correspondence  may  well  furnishproof  of the authorship of the messages at the	 dispatchingend.   A  number of other minor objections  have  been	alsoraised	 before	 us  connected	with  the  proof  of   thesetelegrams.   They have all been fully dealt with by  one  ofthe  learned  Judges  of  the High  Court.   Most  of  theseobjections ate unsubstantial and it is enough to say that weare  in general agreement with the conclusions of  the	HighCourt in this matter.As  regards both the letters and the telegrams	considerableargument  was  attempted before us as to the mode  in  whichthey were let in for proof in the course of the	 examinationof  the	 witnesses.   But  in  the  absence  of	 any   clearindication  on the record that any objection in that  behalfwas  seriously taken, we could not permit any  challenge  inthis behalf.We  may	 add  that as regards the  main	 objection  both  inrespect	 of letters as well as telegrams, viz., the  use  ofthe contents of the disputed documents, for proof345thereof	 there is this that could be said, viz., in view  ofthe fact that quite a large number of the documents are	 notadmitted  and only a few have been held to be'	admitted  orindubitably  proved it may have been a question open  beforethe  Court  of	appeal whether the  internal  evidence	withreference to such a large mass of correspondence  subtantialportion	 of  which is disputed was adequate to arrive  at  asatisfactory  conclusion  as  to the  genuineness  of  thesedocuments.   That question is not open before us.  But	evenif we were inclined to go into this, it was well nigh impos-sible, having regard to the fact that most of the  documentsrelied	upon  by the trial court as well  as  the  appellatecourt  have  not  been	printed in  the	 record	 before	 us.However, there is no reason to think that the learned Judgeswho  have  considered the matter very elaborately  have	 notcome  to  a satisfactory conclusion.  They  have  acted	 notmerely on the internal evidence of the documents but also onthe  oral evidence of three main witnesses, viz.,  the	com-plainant,  Jasawalla  and  Sequeria, each  set	of  evidencehaving	been considered as affirmative of the other  and  inthe  aggregate	as proving the authorship  of  the  disputeddocuments.The  fourth  contention raised by  the	appellant's  counselrelates to the validity of the conviction under s. 420/34 ofthe Indian Penal Code.	Learned counsel argued that  personsdesignated as accused 2, 3 and 4 in the complaint, were	 allin Bombay and the appellant in Karachi and that therefore noconjoint offence could be committed by them within the mean-ing  of s. 34 of the Indian Penal Code.	 He relies upon	 thedictum	in  Shreekantiah Ramayya Munipalli v. The  State  ofBombay	(1)  to	 the effect that it is	essential  that	 theaccused	 should join in the " actual doing " of the act	 andnot  merely in planning its perpetration.  We do  not  thinkthat case or the dictum therein relied on, have any  bearingon  the facts of the present case.  It is also necessary  toobserve that what in fact has been found in this case is thecommission of the offence by the appellant himself.   Thoughthe  trial Magistrate and one of the learned Judges  of	 theHigh(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 177, 1188.346Court  referred to the conviction as a conviction  under  s.420/34 of the Indian Penal Code, the actual findings supporta  conviction of the appellant under s. 420 itself.  Such  aconviction would be valid though the charge is under s.	 420read  with  s.	34 of the Indian  Penal	 Code,	(See  Willie(William) Slaney v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1),  unlessprejudice is shown to have occurred.Thus there is no substance in contentions 3 and 4.Contention  No. 2 arises under the following  circumstances.It  appears  that the appellant	 was  previously  undergoingtrial  in the Court of the Sessions Judge at Bombay for	 theoffences of forgery and fraud and was on bail in  connectionwith  that trial.  While thus on bail he fled away first  toPakistan and from there to England.  The Indian	 authoritiesmade  an  application to the  Metropolitan  Magistrate,	 BowStreet,	 under	the Fugitive Offenders Act,  for  his  beingarrested  and surrendered.  That application was granted  bythe  Magistrate.  Thereupon the appellant moved	 the  QueensBench  Division of the High Court in England for a  writ  ofhabeas	corpus	challenging the validity of his	 arrest	 andsurrender  to  the  Indian authorities.	  Judgment  of	LordGoddard	 C. J. dealing with this matter is reported  as	 Re.Government  of	India  and  Mubarak  Ali  Ahmed	 (2).	 Theapplication  was dismissed and the order for surrender	madeunder  the  Fugitive Offenders Act was upheld.	 It  appearsthat  when  he was brought back to Bombay and  was  in	jailcustody	 with reference to the resumed sessions	 trial,	 thecomplainant got to know about it and filed his complaint  onJune  30., 1952.  The Presidency Magistrate took it  on	 hisfile  and  issued warrant against the accused  and  had	 himbrought	 up  before  his  court	 in  due  course  for  trial(presumably  after the sessions trial was  completed).	 Theobjection raised before us is that the appellant having beensurrendered by the order of the Metropolitan Magistrate onlyfor  the  sessions trial which was pending  against  him  inBombay, he could not be tried for any other offence said  tohave been committed by him in India.(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1140.(2) [1952] 1 All E.R. 1060.347Learned	 counsel relies on s. 3(2) of the  English  Extradi-tion Act, 1870 (33 & 34 Vict. c. 52) which shows that, it iscontemplated thereby that a fugitive criminal' who has	beensurrendered  under  the	 Extradition Act  in  respect  of  aparticular offence should not be tried for any other offenceuntil he has been restored or has been given an	 opportunityof returning.  This section, however, has no bearing in	 thepresent	 case, since, as already stated, the  appellant	 wassurrendered under the Fugitive Offenders Act which  containsno analogous provision.	 Section 8 of the Fugitive OffendersAct  only  provides  for an  optional  repatriation  of	 thesurrendered person at his request if he is acquitted of	 theoffence for which he is surrendered.  Learned counsel  urgesthat  the  principle  underlying  s.  3(2)  of	the  EnglishExtradition  Act  is  a general one and that  it  should  beapplied	 by analogy also to a surrender under  the  FugitiveOffenders Act.	We are unable to accede to that	 contention.It  may also be mentioned that even if his arrest  in  Indiafor the purpose of a trial in respect of a fresh offence  isconsidered  not	 to  be justified,  this  by  itself  cannotvitiate	 the conviction following upon his trial.   This  isnow  well-settled  by  a series of  cases.  (See  Parbhu  v.Emperor(1)  ; Lumbhardar Zutshi v. The King (2) ; and H.  N.Rishbud	 v.  The State of Delhi (3 ). This  contention	mustaccordingly be overruled.We are left, therefore, with the first contention raised  bythe  learned  counsel for the appellant which  is  the	onlysubstantial   question	that  has  been	 raised	 before	  usrequiring careful consideration.The  first contention is raised on the assumption  that	 theappellant is a Pakistani national.  At the outset, it may bestated that it is doubtful whether in fact the appellant  atthe  time  of the offence could be  considered	a  Pakistaninational.   The complainant asserted in his complaint,	thathe  came to know the appellant to be an Indian	citizen	 anddescribed  him	as hailing from Hyderabad  (Deccan)  and  ashaving absconded to Pakistan and from there to England.	 In(1)  A.I.R. (1944) P.C. 73.(2)  A.I.R. (1950) P.C. 2645(3) (1955) 1 S.C R. 1150, 1 163.348a long written-statement filed after the prosecution  closedits case, the appellant himself gave details of his previoushistory	 from  the year 1928.  He stated that  he  became  aGraduate  with Honours from the Punjab University  in  1928,that  he  joined the Indian Finance Service  and  served  invarious capacities and at various places, that he ultimatelyresigned  from the Government service in 1943 and joined  anindustrial concern at Hyderabad (Deccan), that he did a	 lotof business there and that he entered into a large  businesscontract with the Government of Hyderabad, which was revivedby  the	 Military Government after the	Police	Action.	  Hewinds  up  the narration of his previous  history  with	 thefollowing significant statement."  The	contract was satisfactorily fulfilled  prior  to  mymigration to Pakistan in July, 1950.  "This  is  a categorical statement of the  appellant  himselfwhich shows that he continued to be in India till July 1950.If  so, it appears _prima facie that by virtue of Art. 5  ofthe Constitution read with Art. 7 thereof, he was a  citizenof India on the date of the Constitution and continued to beso  at the date of the offence in July-August, 1951,  unlesshe  shows  that	 under	Art.  9	 of  the  Constitution,	  hevoluntarily  acquired  the citizenship of a  foreign  State.Prima facie mere migration to Pakistan is not enough to showthat he bad lost Indian citizenship.  This question has	 notbeen considered or dealt with in the courts below,  probablybecause	 it  was not properly raised at	 the  early  stages.Being  a fundamental objection to jurisdiction	this  shouldhave been raised at the trial by the appellant (accused), atany  rate, soon after the charge was framed.  We might	wellhave   declined,  therefore,  to  permit  the  question	  ofjurisdiction  in this specific form to be argued before	 us.But the learned Judges of the High Court have entertained itand  dealt  with  it  on  the  stated  assumption  that	 theappellant   is	a  Pakistani  national.	  To  overrule	 theobjection at this stage without finally deciding whether theappellant continues to be an Indian citizen (after remandingfor  additional finding, if need be,) would not be  fair  orsatisfactory.  In the circumstances we have felt it349desirable  to  allow  arguments	 to  proceed  on  the	sameassumption  which the High Court has made.   We,  therefore,proceed to deal with it.The  learned  Judges of the High Court decided	against	 theobjection  of  the appellant as to the jurisdiction  of	 thecourt to try him for the alleged offence relying on s. 179of the Code of Criminal Procedure which provides as follows:" When a person is accused of the commission of any  offenceby  reason  of	anything which has been	 done,	and  of	 anyconsequence  which has ensued, such offence may be  inquiredinto  or tried by a Court within the local limits  of  whosejurisdiction  any  such	 thing has been done,  or  any	suchconsequence has ensued." In view of the above provision, thelearned Judges say as follows :" Even upon the footing that the representations were  made,or  the deception was practised by the appellant,  while  hewas  in Pakistan, the consequence of the deception,  namely,the delivery of the property, took place in Bombay.  "They  held that the appellant could, therefore, be tried  inBombay	in respect of the delivery of the money	 in  Bombay.The  argument  of the learned counsel for the  appellant  isthat  s. 179 of the Code of Criminal Procedure	proceeds  onthe assumption that the person to be tried is  substantivelyliable	for an offence under the Indian Penal Code and	thats. 179 prescribes the place of trial but does not create theliability.  He urges that since the appellant is a Pakistaninational  who  was not physically present at Bombay  at	 anystage  of  the commission of the offence, the  Indian  PenalCode has no application to him.	 He is therefore not  liablefor an offence under the Penal Code and hence is not triableunder s. 179 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	 It  appearsfrom  s.  5(1) of the Code of Criminal	Procedure  that	 theprovisions  of the said Code relating to the place of  trialassume	the  existence of substantive  liability  under	 theIndian Penal Code or under any other law.  Section 5(1) saysthat  "	 all offences under the Indian Penal Code  shall  beinvestigated, inquired into, tried and otherwise dealt			    350with according to the provisions hereinafter contained." Nowthe  point raised by the learned counsel is that to  hold  aperson in the position of appellant substantively liable forthe offence charged against him in the circumstances of thiscase,  would  be to give extraterritorial operation  to	 theprovisions of the Indian Penal Code.  He contends that	suchextra-territorial  operation  can  only	 be  by	 reason	  ofspecific legislation in this behalf and does not arise	fromany general provisions of the Indian Penal Code.To deal with this contention, it is necessary to  appreciateclearly the basic facts found in this case.  The offence  ofcheating under s. 420 of the Penal Code as defined in s. 415of the Code has two essential ingredients, viz., (1) deceit,i.e., dishonest or fraudulent misrepresentation to a person,and  (2)  the  inducing of that person	thereby	 to  deliverproperty.   In the present case the volume of  evidence	 setout  above  and	 the facts found to be true  show  that	 theappellant  though at Karachi was making	 representations  tothe  complainant  through letters, telegrams  and  telephonetalks, some times directly to the complainant and some timesthrough Jasawalla, that he had ready stock of rice, that  hehad reserved shipping space and that on receipt of money  hewould  be in a position to ship the rice  forthwith.   Theserepresentations	 were  made to the  complainant	 at  Bombay,notwithstanding	  that	 the  appellant	  was	making	 therepresentations	 from Karachi.	The position is quite  clearwhere the representations were made through the trunk phone.The  statement	of the appellant at the Karachi-end  of	 thetelephone  becomes a representation to the complainant	onlywhen it reaches cognition of the complainant at the  Bombay-end.   This  indeed  has not been  disputed.   It  makes  nodifference in principle if the representations have in	somestages	been  conveyed	by telegrams or by  letters  to	 thecomplainant  directly  or  to some one	of  the	 appellant'sagents, including Jasawalla in that category.  There is alsono question that it is as a result of these  representationsthat  the complainant' parted with his money to the tune  ofabout Rs. 5 1/2 lakhs on three different dates.	 It has beenfound that the351representations	 were  made without being supported  by	 therequisite facts and that this was so to the knowledge of theappellant and that the representations were so made with  aninitial	 dishonest  intention.	On these facts it  is  clearthat  all the ingredients necessary for finding the  offenceof  cheating under s. 420 read with s. 415 have occurred  atBombay.	  In that sense the entire offence was committed  atBombay	and  not merely the consequence, viz.,	delivery  ofmoney,	which  was one of the ingredients  of  the  offence.Learned	  counsel  for	the  appellant	has  not   seriouslycontested  this	 position.  But he urges that  even  so	 theappellant  who was not corporeally present in India  at	 therelevant time does not fall within the purview of the IndianPenal Code.  Now there can be no doubt that prima facie	 theIndian Penal Code is intended to deal with all unlawful actsand  omissions defined to be offences and  committed  withinIndia  and  to	provide for the punishment  thereof  of	 theperson	or persons found guilty therefor.  This is  implicitin the preamble and s. 2 of the Indian Penal Code.  What is,therefore,  to	be seen is whether there is  any  reason  tothink  that a foreigner not corporeally present at the	timeof  the commission of the offence does not fall	 within	 therange  of  persons punishable therefor under the  Code.	  Itappears to us that the answer must be in the negative unlessthere  is  any	recognised legal  principle  on	 which	suchexclusion can be founded or the language of the Code compelssuch  a	 construction.	 It is	strenuously  urged  that  toconsider  a  foreigner guilty under the Penal  Code  for  anoffence committed in India though attributable to him and topunish	him therefor in a case where he is  not	 corporeallypresent in India for the commission of the offence, would beto give extraterritorial operation to the Indian Penal	Codeand   that  an	interpretation	which  brings  such   extra-territorial  operation	must be avoided.  The  case  of	 thePrivy  Council in Macleod v. Attorney-General for New  SouthWales(1)  is relied upon.  But this argument is based  on  amisconception.	 The  fastening of criminal liability  on  aforeigner in respect of culpable acts or omissions(1)  (1891) A.C. 455.352in   India  which  are	juridically  attributable   to	 himnotwithstanding that he is corporeally present outside Indiaat the time, is not to give any extra-territorial  operationto  the	 law;  for it is in respect  of	 an  offence,  whoselocality is in India, that the liability is fastened on	 theperson	and  the punishment is awarded by the  law,  if	 hispresence  in India for the trial can be secured.  That	thisis part of the ordinary jurisdiction of a Municipal Court iswell recognised in the common law of England as appears fromHalsbury's Laws of England (Third Edition) Vol. 10, p.	318.Paragraph  580 therein shows that the exercise	of  criminaljurisdiction  at common law is limited to  crimes  committedwithin	the  territorial  limits of England  and  para.	 581states	the jurisdiction in respect of acts outside  Englishterritory as follows:"  For the purposes of criminal jurisdiction, an act may  beregarded  as  done within English  territory,  although	 theperson	who  did the act may be outside the  territory;	 forinstance,  a person who, being abroad procures	an  innocentagent  or uses the post office to commit a crime in  Englandis  deemed to commit an act in England.	 If a person,  beingoutside England, initiates an offence, part of the essentialelements of which take effect in England, he is amenable  toEnglish	 jurisdiction.	 It  appears that  even	 though	 theperson who has initiated such an offence is a foreigner,  hecan be tried if he subsequently comes to England.  "Thus  the  exercise of criminal jurisdiction in	 such  casesunder  the common law is exercise of municipal	jurisdictionand  much more so in a case like the present, where all	 theingredients  of	 the  offence  occur  within  the  municipalterritory.It  would be desirable at this stage to notice certain	wellrecognised  concepts of International Law bearing on such  asituation.  Wheaton in his book on Elements of InternationalLaw  (Fourth  Edition)	at p.  183,  dealing  with  criminaljurisdiction states as follows:By  the	 Common Law of England, which has been	adopted,  inthis  respect, in the United States, criminal  offences	 areconsidered as altogether local, and are353justiciable  only  by the courts of that country  where	 theoffence is committed.  "At p. 182 thereof it is stated as follows:"  The	judicial power of every independent  State,  extends(with	the   qualifications  mentioned	 earlier)   to	 thepunishment of all offences against the municipal laws of theState, by whomsoever committed, within the territory.  "In  Hackworth's Digest of International Law (1941  Edition),Vol. 11, at p. 188 there is reference to opinions of certaineminent	 American  Judges.   It	 is  enough  to	 quote	 thefollowing dictum of Holmes J. noticed therein :"Acts  done outside a jurisdiction, but intended to  produceand producing detrimental effects within it, justify a Statein punishing the cause of the harm as if he had been presentat  the effect, if the State should succeed in	getting	 himwithin its power.  "In Hyde's International Law (Second Edition), Vol. 1, at  p.798,  the  following  quotation from  the  judgment  of	 thepermanent Court of International Justice dated September  7,1927,  in  the	case  relating	to  S.	S.  Lotus  is	veryinstructive:"  It is certain that the courts of many countries, even  ofcountries  which  have given their  criminal  legislation  astrictly  territorial character, interpret criminal  law  inthe sense that offences, the authors of which at the  momentof  commission	are in the territory of another	 State,	 arenevertheless to be regarded as having been committed in	 thenational  territory, if one of the constituent	elements  ofthe  offence,  and more especially its effects,	 have  takenplace there.  "This  quotation is also noticed in Openheim's  InternationalLaw (Eighth Ed.),   Vol.   1 at p. 332 in the footnote.	  Innoticing the provisions of International Law in this contextwe  are	 conscious  that what we have to deal  with  in	 thepresent	 case is a question merely of municipal law and	 notof  any	 International	Law.   But as  is  seen	 above,	 theprinciples recognised in(1) Publications, Permanent Court of International  justice,Series A,Nos. 10, 23.354International Law in this behalf are virtually based on	 therecognition  of	 those principles in the  municipal  law  ofvarious	 countries  and	 is  really  part  of  the   generaljurisprudence  relating	 to  criminal  responsibility  undermunicipal  law.	  No  doubt some of  the  above	 dicta	havereference  to offences actually committed outside the  Stateby  foreigners and treated as offences committed within	 theState  by specific legislation.	 But the principle  emergingtherefrom  is  clear that once it is  treated  as  committedwithin the State the fact that he is a foreigner corporeallypresent	 outside  at  the  time of  such  commission  is  noobjection  to the exercise of municipal	 jurisdiction  underthe  municipal	law.   This emphasizes	the  principle	thatexercise of criminal jurisdiction depends on the locality ofthe  offence  and  not on the  nationality  of	the  allegedoffender   (except  in	a  few	specified  cases   such	  asambassadors, Princes etc.).Learned	 counsel  for the appellant has	 relied	 on  variouspassages in the judgment of Cockburn C.J. in the  well-knowncase  The  Queen v. Keyn (Franconia's case)  (1).   Fourteenlearned	 Judges	 participated  in that	case  and  the	caseappears to have been argued twice.  Eight of them  includingCockburn  C.J. formed the majority.  Undoubtedly  there	 arevarious	 passages  in the judgment of  Cockburn	 C.J.  which_prima	facie seem capable of being urged in favour  of	 theappellant's contention.	 In particular the following passageat p. 235 may be noticed:"The  question	is not whether the death  of  the  deceased,which no doubt took place in a British ship, was the act  ofthe  defendant in such ship, but whether the  defendant,  atthe  time  the	act was done,  was  himself  within  Britishjurisdiction."The  learned  Chief Justice, however, recognised at  p.	 237that there were certain American decisions to the  contrary.Now  the main debate in that case was whether the sea up  tothree mile limit from the shore is part of British territoryor whether in respect of such three mile limit only  limitedand defined extra territorial British jurisdiction  extendedwhich did not(1)  (1876) 2 Ex.D. 63.355include	 the  particular criminal  jurisdiction	 under	con-sideration.  In respect of this question, as a result of thejudgment, the Parliament had to enact the Territorial WatersJurisdiction  Act,  1878  (41 & 42 Vict., c.  73)  which  insubstance  overruled  the view of the majority	and  of	 thelearned Chief Justice on this point.  The main principle  ofcriminal jurisdiction, however, relevant for our purpose wasenunciated  in the minority judgment of Amphlett, J. A.,  atp.  118,  that	"it  is the locality  of  the  offence	thatdetermines' the jurisdiction " implying by contrast that  itis not the nationality of the offender.The question, however, that still remains for  considerationis whether there is anything in the language of the sectionsof  the Indian Penal Code relating to the general scheme  ofthe  Code  which compels the construction that	the  varioussections  of the Penal Code are not intended to apply  to  aforeigner  who has committed an offence in India  while	 notbeing  corporeally  present therein at the time.   For	thispurpose	 we are not concerned with such of the	sections  ofthe  Penal Code, if any, which indicate the actual  presenceof the culprit as a necessary ingredient of the offence.  Ofcourse,	 for  such  offences a foreigner  ex  hypothesi	 notpresent	 at  the time in India cannot be guilty.   The	onlygeneral sections of the Indian Penal Code which indicate itsscheme	in this behalf are ss. 2,3, and 4 and as they  standat present, they are as follows:"  2. Every person shall be liable to punishment under	thisCode and not otherwise for every act or omission contrary tothe  provisions thereof, of which he shall be guilty  withinIndia.3.   Any  person liable, by any Indian law, to be tried	 foran  offence  committed	beyond India  shall  be	 dealt	withaccording  to  the  provisions	of this	 Code  for  any	 actcommitted beyond India in the same manner as if such act hadbeen committed within India.4.   The  provisions of this Code apply also to any  offencecommitted by-(1)  any  citizen of India in any place without	 and  beyondIndia;46356(2)  any person on any ship or aircraft registered in  Indiawherever it may be.Explanation:-In	 this  section the word	 'offence'  includesevery  act  committed outside India which, if  committed  inIndia, would be punishable under this Code."Sections  3  and 4 deal with offences committed	 beyond	 theterritorial  limits  of	 India and s.  2  obviously  and  bycontrast  refers  to offences committed	 within	 India.	  Itappears	 clear	that  it is s. 2 that has to  be  looked  todetermine  the liability and punishment of persons who	havecommitted  offences  within  India.   The  section   assertscategorically	that  every  person  shall  be	 liable	  topunishment under the Code for every act or omission contraryto  the	 provisions  of the Code and of which  he  shall  beguilty within India.  This recognises the general  principleof criminal jurisdiction over persons with reference to	 thelocality  of  the offence committed by	them,  being  withinIndia.	 The use of the phrase " every person " in s.  2  ascontrasted with the use of the phrase "any person " in s.  3as  well as s. 4 (2) of the Code is indicative of  the	ideathat  to the extent that the guilt for an offence  committedwithin	India  can  be attributed to a	person,	 every	suchperson without exception is liable for punishment under	 theCode.	Learned counsel for the appellant suggests that	 thephrase " within India " towards the end of s. 2 must be readwith the phrase " every person " at the commencement thereofBut this is far-fetched and untenable.	The plain meaning ofthe  phrase  "	every person " is that	it  comprehends	 allpersons without limitation and irrespective of	nationality,allegiance,  rank,  status, caste, colour  or  creed.	Thissection	 must  be understood as comprehending  every  personwithout	 exception barring such as may be  specially  exemptfrom criminal proceedings or punishment thereunder by virtueof  the Constitution (See Art. 361 (2) of the  Constitution)or any statutory provisions or some wellrecognised principleof   international   law,  such	  as   foreign	 sovereigns,ambassadors, diplomatic agents and so forth, accepted in themunicipal law.357Learned	 counsel drew our attention to a number of  sectionsin the Penal Code, viz., ss. 108A, 177, 203, 212, 216,	216Aand 236.  The argument based on reference to these  sectionsis  that wherever the legislature in framing the Penal	Codewanted	to  legislate about anything that has  reference  tosomething done outside India it has specifically said so andthat  therefore it may be expected that if it  was  intendedthat the Penal Code would refer to a person actually presentoutside India at the time of the commission of the  offence,it would have specifically said so.  We are unable to acceptthis argument.	These sections have reference to  particulardifficulties  which  arose  with reference to  what  may  becalled,	 a related offence being committed in India  in	 thecontext	  of  the  principal  offence  itself  having	beencommitted  outside  India-that is  for	instance,  abetment,giving	false  information and harbouring  within  India  inrespect of offences outside India.  Questions arose in	suchcases as to whether any criminal liability would arise	withreference  to  the related offence,  the  principal  offenceitself not being punishable in India and these sections wereintended  to  rectify  the lacunas.  On the  other  hand,  areference  to s. 3 of the Code clearly indicates that it  isimplicit  therein  that a foreigner who commits	 an  offencewithin	India is guilty and can be punished as such  withoutany limitation as to his corporeal presence in India at	 thetime.  For if it were not so, the legal fiction implicit  inthe phrase "as if such act had been committed within  India"in s. 3 would not have been limited to the supposition	thatsuch  act  had been committed within India, but	 would	haveextended  also to a fiction as to his physical	presence  atthe time in India.In the argument before us, there has been some debate as  towhat exactly is the implication of the clause " of which  heshall  be guilty within India " in s. 2 of the Code.  It  isunnecessary  to come to any definite conclusion	 in  respectthereto.   But	it  is clear that it does  not	support	 thecontention of the appellant's counsel.	We have,  therefore,no doubt that on a plain reading of s. 2 of the Penal  Code,the Code does358apply  to  a foreigner who has committed an  offence  withinIndia  notwithstanding	that  he  was  corporeally   presentoutside.It  has	 next  been urged before us  that  the	exercise  ofjurisdiction over a foreigner by municipal courts depends onthe theory of temporary allegiance to the State by reason ofhis  entry  into  the  State,  which  carries  with  it	 theprotection of its laws and therefore his submission thereto.Dicta from some of the decided cases have been cited  beforeus.  It is unnecessary to deal with any of those cases.	  Onan  examination	 of  those  cases  it  will  be	 found	thatallegiance,  temporary or otherwise, has not been laid	downanywhere  as  a limiting principle in  respect	of  criminaljurisdiction, which is primarily concerned with questions ofsecurity of the State and of the citizens of the State.A  number  of early cases of the High Courts in	 India	havebeen  brought lo our notice as bearing on the  question	 nowunder  consideration. (See Reg. v. Elmstone, Whitwell (1)  ;Reg. v. Pirtai (2) ; Mussummat Kishen Kour v. The Crown	 (3); and Gokaldas Amarsee v. Emperor (4).	As against them	 maybe  noticed the case in Emperor v. Chhotalal Babar (5).	  Itis unnecessary to consider them at any length.	 Undoubtedlysome  of them seem to support the view pressed before us  onbehalf	of the appellant that criminal	jurisdiction  cannotextend to foreigners outside the State.	 These, however, aredecisions  rendered  at a time when the	 competence  of	 theIndian	Legislature was considered somewhat  limited,  underthe  influence	of  the decisions like	those  in  Macleod'scase(1)	 in  spite of the decision in Queen  v.	 Burah	(1).However	 that  may be these concepts are no  longer  tenableafter India became a Dominion by the Indian Independence Actof  1947 and after it became an independent  free  sovereignrepublic  under the present Constitution.  It is  enough  torefer to the case of Croft v. Dunphy(1) and to the  decisionof Spens, C.J., in Governor-General v. Raleigh(1)  (1870)  7 Bom. H.C.R. 89 (Cr.  Ca.).(5)  (1912)  I.L.R.36 Bom. 524.(2) (1873) 10 Bom. H.C.R. 356.	   (6) (1891) A.C. 455.(3) (1878) 13 P.R. 49	 (7) (1878) 3 A.C. 889.(Criminal judgments).	 (8) (1933) A.C. 156.(4)  (1934) 35 Cr.L.J. 585.359Investment (1).	 In the latter case Spens, C.J.,  indicates.that  there has been considerable change in the	 concept  ofthe doctrine of extra-territorial legislation, subsequent toMacleod's  case (2) and the criticism of Macleod's case	 (2)in  certain  Canadian  decisions and of	 the  Privy  Councilitself has been adverted to.Learned counsel invited our attention to a passage from	 thereport	of the Indian Law Commissioners quoted at p. 274  ofRatanlal's  Law of Crimes (Eighteenth Ed.). It is enough  tosay  that though this quotation may be valuable as a  matterof  history,  it  cannot  be  a	 legitimate  guide  for	 theconstruction  of  the section.	That  construction  must  bebased  on  the	meaning of the words used,  to	be  gatheredaccording  to  the ordinary rules of interpretation  and  inconsonance   with  the	generally  accepted  principles	  ofexercise of criminal jurisdiction.  It is not necessary	 andindeed not permissible to construe the Indian Penal Code  atthe  present day in accordance with the notions of  criminaljurisdiction  prevailing  at  the time	when  the  Code	 wasenacted.   The	notions relating to this  matter  have	veryconsiderably  changed between then and now during  nearly  acentury that has elapsed.  It is legitimate to construe	 theCode  with reference to the modern needs, wherever  this  ispermissible, unless there is anything in the Code or in	 anyparticular section to indicate the contrary.After  giving  our careful consideration  to  the  questionsraised before us, we are clearly of the opinion that even onthe assumption that the appellant has ceased to be an Indiancitizen	 and  was a Pakistani national at the  time  of	 thecommission  of	the  offence, he must  be  held	 guilty	 andpunished under the Indian Penal Code notwithstanding his notbeing corporeally present in India at the time.We have been asked to consider the question of sentence.  Ashas been stated ,it the outset the substantive sentences  ofimprisonment  are  two	years tinder  the  first  count	 andtwenty-two  months  under the second.	The  sentences	wereconcurrent on the second(1) A.I.R. (1944) F.C. 51, 60,61.(2) (1891) A.C. 455.360and third counts.  As a result, the total imprisonment whichhas been awarded against the appellant would be a period  ofthree years and ten months.  We are not prepared to say thatthe discretion of the trial Court in awarding that  sentencehas been wrongly exercised.The appeal is accordingly dismissed.Appeal dismissed.