PETITIONER:THAIVALAPPIL KUNJUVARU VAREED	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF TRAVANCORE-COCHIN.DATE OF JUDGMENT:01/12/1955BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.DAS, SUDHI RANJANBOSE, VIVIANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1956 AIR  142		  1955 SCR  (2)1022ACT:Constitution  of  India, Arts. 72, 161	and  238-Prerogativeright  of  pardon  vested  in the  Maharaja  of	 Cochin	 andaffirmed  by  Art.  XXI	 of Covenant  dated  29th  May	1949entered	 into between the Rulers of Travancore	and  Cochin-Whether	 superseded and abrogated in view of the,  accessionand  integration of United State of Travancore	Cochin	withDominion  of  India  and  the  Union  of  India-Whether	 itscontinuance  consistent	 with Arts. 62, 161 and 238  of	 theConstitution.HEADNOTE:A sentence of death passed on the appellant by the  SessionsJudge  of  Trichur  (now situated in  the  United  State  ofTravancore  Cochin  and previously in the  former  State  ofCochin)	 was confirmed by the High Court.   Mercy  petitionspresented to the Raj Pramukh of Travancore-Cochin and to thePresident   of	India  were  rejected.	 The  question	 fordetermination  was whether the appellant could rely  on	 thepre-existing power of the Maharaja of Cochin to exercise thepower of pardon in respect of a sentence of death passed  bythe  courts in his State, the prerogative right having	beenaffirmed  by  Art.  XXI of the Covenant dated the  29th	 May1949,  entered	into between the Rulers	 of  Travancore	 andCochin.Held  that  the	 pre-existing prerogative  right  of  pardonvested in the Maharaja of Cochin must be taken to have	beensuperseded  and abrogated having regard to the events  whichculminated in the accession and integration of the State  ofTravancore-Cochin with the Dominion of India and  thereafterits absorption into the Union of India when the Constitutionof  India  came	 into force on the 26th	 January  1950,	 thecontinuance  of	 such prerogative  being  inconsistent	withArts. 72, 161 and 238 of the Constitution.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 90  of1955.On appeal by special leave from the Judgment and order datedthe  17th June 1955 of the Travancore-Cochin High  Court  atErnakulam in Criminal Miscellaneous Petition No. 113 of 1955(R.T. 'No. 4 of 1954 and Criminal Appeal No. 136 of 1954).B. R. L. Iyengar, for the appellant.Sardar Bahadur, for the respondent,10231955.	December 1. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyJAGANNADHADAS  J-This  is  an appeal by	 special  leave	 andarises under somewhat unusual circumstances.  The  appellantwas  convicted of murder in Sessions Case No. 20 of 1954  bythe   Sessions	Judge  of  Trichur  now	 in  the  State	  ofTravancore-Cochin and sentenced to death.  The sentence	 wasin due course confirmed by the High Court and an applicationfor  leave to appeal against it to this Court was  rejected.The  appellant filed mercy petitions to the  Raj-Pramukh  ofTravancore-Cochin and to the President of India and both  ofthem  were rejected.  After all these attempts	had  failed,the Sessions Judge issued a warrant on the 29th March, 1955,fixing	6th April, 1955, for the execution of the  prisoner.Meanwhile,  the Superintendent, Central Jail, Viyyur,  wherethe  condemned	prisoner was lodged, informed  the  SessionsJudge  by  his letter dated the 1st April,  1955,  that	 theprisoner had sent a mercy petition to the Maharaja of Cochinand  requested	for  directions, since no  orders  had	beenreceived  in respect of that petition. it may  be  mentionedthat  the Sessions Division of Trichur is admittedly in	 theformer State of Cochin.	 It does not appear from the  recordwhether	 this mercy petition to the Maharaja of	 Cochin	 wassent before or after the mercy petitions to the	 Raj-Pramukhof Travancore-Cochin and to the President were disposed	 of.On receipt of the letter dated the 1st April, 1955, from theSuperintendent,	 Central Jail, the Sessions Judge passed  anorder  that the circumstances of the case demanded that	 theexecution of the sentence should not take place on the	datealready	 fixed.	  He  accordingly issued  an  order  stayingexecution of the sentence, previously ordered by his warrantdated the 29th March, 1955.  At this stage, the Public	Pro-secutor	 filed an application to the Sessions Judge  on	 the30th  May,  1955, praying that the stay may be	vacated	 andthat fresh directions to execute the warrant may be  issued.On  that  application,	the  Public  Prosecutor	 raised	 thequestion that a mercy1024petition  to the Maharaja of Cochin, who as such,  has	lostsovereignty over the territory forming part of	the previousCochin State, and hence also lost his prerogative of pardon,was  incompetent  and  could not stand in  the	way  of	 thewarrant	 being executed.  The learned Sessions	Judge  dealtwith  this  question and agreed with the contention  of	 thePublic	Prosecutor.  Accordingly, he vacated  the  stay	 andissued a fresh warrant for execution of the prisoner  givinga  week's time to the prisoner to take the matter on  appealto  the	 High Court, if so advised.  The prisoner  filed  anappeal to the High Court and the learned Judges of the	HighCourt  after  consideration of the arguments on	 both  sidesagreed	with the view taken by the learned  Sessions  Judge,and  dismissed	the appeal by its judgment  dated  the	17thJune, 1955.  The present appeal is against this order of theHigh Court.For  the hearing of this appeal counsel was assigned to	 theappellant amicus curiae and all the relevant  constitutionalprovisions  have  been fully and fairly	 placed	 before	 us.Learned counsel appearing for the State has also been heard.We are satisfied that the question that has been raised doesnot admit of substantial argument and that the view taken byboth the Courts below is correct.The entire basis for any argument on behalf of the appellantis  the	 pre-existing  undoubted power of  the	Maharaja  ofCochin to exercise the prerogative of pardon in respect of asentence  of  death passed by the courts within	 his  State.That prerogative right has been 'affirmed in Article XXI  ofthe Covenant dated the 29th May, 1949, entered into  betweenthe Rulers of Travancore and Cochin for the formation of theUnited State of Travancore and Cochin.	Thearticle is in the following terms:"Notwithstanding   anything  contained	in   the   precedingprovisions  of this Covenant, the Rulers of  Travancore	 andCochin	shall continue to have, and exercise, their  presentpowers	of  suspension, remission or  commutation  of  deathsentences in respect of any person who may have been, or  ishereafter, sentenced1025to   death   for  capital  offence  committed	within	 theterritories of Travancore or Cochin as the case may be'It is only on the assumption that the power thus  recognisedin  this  article  of the Covenant  still  survives  in	 theMaharaja  of  Cochin, notwithstanding that he had  lost	 hissovereignty over the territories which constituted the Stateof  Cochin  that the appellant has any statable	 case.	 Butthis  assumption is clearly unfounded having regard  to	 theevents which culminated in the accession and integration  ofthe  State of Travancore-Cochin with the Dominion  of  Indiaand thereafter its absorption into the Union of India,	whenthe  Constitution of India came into operation on  the	26thJanuary,  1950.	 The relevant historical events may  brieflybe stated.In August, 1947, the Rulers of the States of Travancore	 andCochin	executed  separate instruments of accession  to	 theDominion  of  India on the same lines as most  other  IndianStates	did,  at  the time.  In May, 1949,  the	 two  Statesformed	into a United State under a Covenant signed by	eachof the Maharajas, the provisions of which were guaranteed bythe Government of India.  It is Article XXI of this Covenantwhich  has already been referred to and which  provides	 forthe continuance of the prerogative of the Maharaja of Cochinfor commutation of death sentences within his State.   Underthis  Covenant it was also provided that the then  Ruler  ofTravancore  should  be the first Raj-Pramukh of	 the  UnitedState of Travancore-Cochin.  It was specifically provided byArticle IX thereof as follows:"The Raj Pramukh shall, within, a fortnight of the appointedday, execute on behalf of the United State an Instrument  ofAccession in accordance with the provisions of section 6  ofthe  Government	 of  India Act, 1935, and in  place  of	 theInstruments of Accession of the Covenanting States".By Article X(4) of the Covenant it was provided that"The  Legislature of the United State shall, subject to	 theprovisions of this Covenant, have full power1026to  make laws for the United State, including provisions  asto  the	 Constitution  of  the	United	State,	within	 theframework of this Covenant and the Constitution of India".In  pursuance of article IX, the Raj Pramukh of	 Travancore-Cochin	executed an Instrument of Accession dated  the	14thJuly,  1949, which was accepted by the	Governor-General  ofIndia  on  the	15th August, 1949.  By	article	 I  of	thisInstrument it was declared that the 'United State acceded tothe  Dominion  of India.  In pursuance of Article  X(4)	 thelegislative  assembly  of  the	State  of  Travancore-Coobinresolved  that	the Constitution framed by  the	 ConstituentAssembly  be adopted by the State.  In	consequence  thereofthe  Raj Pramukh of Travancore-Cochin issued a	proclamationdated the 24th November, 1949, which runs as follows:"Whereas  with the inauguration of the new Constitution	 forthe  whole  of	India now being framed	by  the	 ConstituentAssembly of India, the Government of India Act, 1935,  whichnow  governs  the constitutional relationship  between	thisState and the Dominion of India will stand repealed;and  whereas' in the best interests of the United  State  ofTravancore and Cochin, which is closely linked with the restof  India  by  a community of  interests  in  the  economic,political  and	other  fields,	it  is	desirable  that	 theconstitutional	relationship established between this  Stateand  the Dominion of India, should not only be continued  asbetween	 this  State  and the contemplated  Union  of  Indiafurther	 strengthened,	and  the Constitution  of  India  asdrafted by the Constituent Assembly of India, which includesduly  appointed	 representatives of this State,	 provides  asuitable basis for doing so;And  whereas by virtue of the power vesting in it under	 theCovenant  establishing this State, the Legislative  Assemblyof  the State has resolved that the Constitution  framed  bythe Constituent Assembly of India be adopted by this State;I now hereby declare and direct-1027That the Constitution of India shortly to be adopted by	 theConstituent Assembly of India shall be the Constitution	 forthe  United State of Travancore and Cochin as for the  otherparts  of India and shall be enforced as such in  accordancewith the tenor of its provisions:That  the provisions of the said Constitution shall as	fromthe  date  of its commencement, supersede and  abrogate	 allother constitutional provisions inconsistent therewith whichare at present in force in this State".For  our  present  purposes,  the  last	 paragraph  in	thisProclamation is important.  On the coming into force of	 theConstitution  of India on the 26th January, 1950, the  Stateof Travancore-Cochin became a part of the Union of India andwas  one  of the Part B States as provided under  article  1clause	(2)  taken with Part B of the First  Schedule.	 TheConstitution  specifically provided for the  prerogative  ofmercy  in respect of sentences of death in articles 72,	 161and  238.  Article 72 provides for the power of	 the  Presi-dent, article 161 for the power of the Governor in a Part  AState,	and article 238 (1) taken with article 161  for	 thepower of the Raj Pramukh of a Part B State.  In the light ofthese  provisions the continuance of the prerogative of	 theMaharaja  of Cochin relating to the execution of  the  deathsentences with reference to the ex-State of Cochin would  beinconsistent with the new Constitution.	 Such power,  there-fore, must be taken to have been superseded and abrogated asstated in the last para of the Proclamation above mentioned.It  would  follow that article XXI of the Govenant  of	May,1949, no longer survives.Article 372(1) of the Constitution has also been relied uponon behalf of the appellant.  This runs as follows:"Notwithstanding  the  repeal by this  Constitution  of	 theenactments  referred  to in article 395 but subject  to	 theother provisions of this Constitution, all the law in  forcein   the   territory  of  India	  immediately	before	 thecommencement  of this Constitution shall continue  in  forcetherein until altered or re-1301028pealed	or  amended  by a  competent  Legislature  or  othercompetent authority".The argument based on this article is that the criminal	 lawof the ex-Cochin State continued to be in force in spite  ofthe  new  Constitution having come into force and  that	 theexercise  of  the prerogative by the Maharaja of  Cochin  inrespect	 of the ex-State of Cochin was an integral  part  ofthat law.  Apart from the question whether such	 prerogativewhich was incidental to his sovereignty, could survive afterhe  lost his sovereignty over the territory, the  difficultyin the way of this argument is twofold. (1) The	 continuanceis subject to the other provisions of the Constitution;	 and(2)  The  continuance is only until altered or	repealed  oramended by a competent Legislature.  As already pointed out,the continuance of the prerogative of the Maharaja of Cochinwould  be inconsistent with articles 72, 161 and 238 of	 theConstitution.  Further it is to be noticed that by the	Codeof Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1951, (Central Act  Iof  1951),  passed  by the Union Legislature,  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure, 1898, has been made applicable  to	 thewhole  of  India by amending section I of the  Code  and  bysubstitution  therein for the words "whole of  India  exceptPart B States", the words "whole of India except the  Statesof  Jammu  and Kashmir and Manipur".  The Code	of  CriminalProcedure  and	along with it sections 401, 402,  and  402-Athereof,  relating to commutation of sentences	having	thusbeen  made specifically applicable to all Part B  States  byCentral Act I of 1951, the prerogative under the old  Cochinlaw  must  in any case be deemed to have  been	repealed  orabrogated  by  competent  legislative  authority  after	 thecoming into force of the Constitution.	It was suggested  inthe  Courts  below that in so far as the  Maharaja's  prero-gative	was  concerned the Legislature	was  incompetent  toabrogate it in view of article 362 of the Constitution.	 Butthat  article  has no bearing.	It refers only	to  personalrights,	 privileges  and dignities of the Rulers  of  IndianStates.	  It  is obvious even from the	Covenant,  in  whicharticle XXI appears, that the1029power  of  pardon  thereunder is  different  from  "personalrights, privileges and dignities" which have been dealt withunder articles XVI and XVII in the following terms."XVI.	The  Ruler of each Covenanting State,  as  also	 themembers of his family, shall be entitled to all the personalprivileges,  dignities and titles enjoyed by  them,  whetherwithin or outside the territories of the State,	 immediatelybefore the 15th day of August,1947.XVII.(1) The succession, according to law and  custom to thegaddi of each Covenanting State and to the personal  rights,privileges,  dignities	and titles of the Ruler	 thereof  ishereby guaranteed".There is thus no substance in any of the arguments on  whichthe case for the appellant can possibly be presented.This appeal is accordingly dismissed.