PETITIONER:MACHERLA HANUMANTHA RAOAND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH(with connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/09/1957BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAKAPUR, J.L.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  927		  1958 SCR  396ACT:Sessions  Trial-Commitment Proceeding instituted  on  Policereport-Procedure, if makes for inequality before law-Code ofCriminal Procedure (Act V of 1898) as amended by the Code ofCriminal  Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1955 (26 of 1955),	 ss.207, 207A-Constitution of India, Art.  14.HEADNOTE:The point in controversy in this appeal was whether SS.	 207and 207A inserted into the Code of Criminal Procedure by theamending  Act 26 of 1955, violated the provision of Art.  14of  the	 Constitution and were, therefore, invalid  in	law.The  appellants	 were committed for trial to  the  Court  ofSession by the inquiring397Magistrate  in	a proceeding instituted against	 them  on  aPolice report and he followed the procedure laid down in  s.207A  of  the Code as required by s. 207 Of the	 Code.	 Theappellants  moved the High Court for quashing the  order  ofcommitment  on	the ground that the provisions	of  S.	207Aintroduced discrimination as against accused persons againstwhom proceedings were' instituted on Police report and	wereunconstitutional in character.	The High Court held  againstthem.	The contention was reiterated in this Court  and  itwas sought to be made out that the provisions Of S. 207A  ofthe Code, in comparison and contrast to other provisions  ofCh.   XVIII  of	 the Code, prescribed  a  less	advantageousprocedure for the accused persons in a proceeding started onPolice report than the procedure prescribed for other  casesin the succeeding sections of the chapter.Held,	that  ss.  207	and  207A  of  the  Code  were	 notdiscriminatory	and  did  not contravene  Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution  and their constitutional validity	 was  beyondquestion.Although  there can be no doubt that the  impugned  sectionsintroduced substantial difference in the procedure  relatingto  commitment proceedings applicable to the two classes  ofcases,	they did not in any way affect the procedure at	 thetrial,	and the true test of the constitutional validity  ofthe classification they made, was whether it was  reasonableand  pertinent	to the object the Legislature had  in  view,namely,	 a speedy trial of offences with the least  possibledelay.So  judged there could be no doubt that the  Legislature  inprescribing  the two different procedures at the  commitmentstage,	one for proceedings instituted on Police report	 andthe  other  for	 those	that  were  not,  had  acted  on   aconsideration  that  was reasonable and connected  with	 theobject it had in view.Budhan	Choudhry v. The State of Bihar, (1955) S.C.R.  1045,applied.Matajog Dobey v. H. C. Bhari, (1955) 2 S.C.R. 925, ChiranjitLal Chowdhuri v. The Union of India, (1950) S.C.R. 869,	 TheState  of  Bombay v. F. N. Balsara, (1951) S.C.R.  682,	 TheState of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar, (1952) S.C.R. 284,Kathi Raning Rawat v. The State of Saurashtra, (1952) S.C.R.435,  Lachmandas  Kewalram  Ahuja v. The  State	 of  Bombay,(1952)	S.C.R. 710, Qasim Razvi v. The State  of  Hyderabad,(1953)	 S.C.R.	 581,  Habeeb  Mohamad	v.  The	  State	  ofHyderabad,  (1953)  S.C.R. 661 and The State  of  Punjab  v.Ajaib Singh, (1953) S.C.R. 254, referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 57  of1957 and Criminal Misc.	 Petition No. 294 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 28, 1956,of  the	 former	 Andhra High Court  at	Guntur	in  CriminalRevision Case No. 241 of 1956.398T.   V. Sarma, K. Ramaseshayya Chaudhury and T.	  S.Venkataraman, for the appellants.T.   V. R. Tatachari and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India and T.    M.Sen, for the Intervener (Union of India).1957.  September 17.  The following Judgment of theCourt was delivered bySINHA J.-The only question that arises for determination  inthis  appeal on a certificate granted by the High  Court  ofAndhra	Pradesh	 at Hyderabad, under Art. 134(1)(c)  of	 theConstitution, is the constitutionality of the provisions  ofss.  207 and 207A, Code of Criminal  Procedure	(hereinafterreferred  to  as  the  Code),  which,  read  together,	wereintroduced  into  the  Code by Act XXVI	 of  1955.   The  26appellants  have  been committed to the	 Court	of  Session,Guntur Division, to take their trial for offences punishableunder  ss. 147, 148, 323, 324 and 302, read with ss. 34	 and149, Indian Penal Code.	 They impleaded the State of  AndhraPradesh as the sole respondent.	 The Union of India has beenallowed	 to intervene on an application made in that  behalfin  view of the fact that the provisions of the Central	 Acthave been impugned as unconstitutional.For  the  purposes of this appeal, it is only  necessary  tostate  the following relevant facts.  The local police	tookcognizance of a serious occurrence of rioting with murder onDecember 22, 1955.  The local police investigated the  case,and  after  recording such evidence as it could	 collect  inrespect	 of the occurrence, submitted a	 charge-sheet  underthe  aforesaid	sections of the Indian Penal  Code,  to	 themagistrate  having jurisdiction to entertain the case.	 Themagistrate, following the procedure laid down in s. 207 A ofthe  Code committed the persons shown in the chargesheet  asthe accused persons, to take their trial before the Court ofSession.   A number of applications in revision,  under	 ss.435 and 439 of the Code, were made on behalf of the  accusedpersons, to the High Court of399Andhra Pradesh, to quash the order of commitment, chiefly onthe ground that the said order having been passed under	 theprovisions  of	s.  207A of the Code(  was  void,  as  thoseprovisions  were unconstitutional for the reason  that	theyintroduced  discrimination  as against	accused	 persons  inrespect	 of whom a police charge-sheet had  been  submitted.The revisional applications were heard by Krishna Rao J. whodismissed  them, holding that the provisions  impugned	werenot  unconstitutional  and  that, therefore,  the  order  ofcommitment was valid in law.  The appellants applied for andobtained  the necessary certificate under Art. 134(1)(c)  ofthe  Constitution that the case was a fit one for appeal  tothis Court.The arguments addressed to the High Court have been repeatedin  this Court and are to the effect that ss. 207 and  207A,as  they now stand, provide for two separate  procedures  inthe  committing	 court,	 namely, (1) in respect	 of  a	caseinstituted  on	a  police report  for  which  the  procedurespecified  in s. 207 A is prescribed, and (2) in respect  ofany  other  proceeding,	 the procedure laid  down  in  otherprovisions of Chapter XV111 is prescribed.  The argument  isthat  a	 comparison  and  contrast  of	the  two   differentprocedures  prescribed	in  respect of the  two	 classes  ofcases,	when  examined	in  their  details,  show  that	 theprocedure in respect of a case instituted on a police reportis   less  advantageous	 to  the  accused  than	 the   otherprocedure.   Thus,  it is further argued,  in  the  sectionsfollowing s. 207A in Chapter XVIII of the Code, the  accusedhave been granted facilities which are not available to themin  the	 procedure  laid  down	in  s.	207A.	By  way	  ofillustration, it was urged that under s. 208(3), it is	opento  an	accused person to apply to the magistrate  to  issueprocess	 to  compel  the attendance of any  witness  or	 theproduction of any document, but sub-s. (2) of s. 207A, whichcorresponds  to the provisions of s. 208(3), speaks only  ofthe  prosecution  and  not of the  accused.   Again,  it  ispointed out that sub-s. (4) of s. 207A, makes reference onlyto  the prosecution evidence, whereas the  corresponding  s.208(1) makes reference to the evidence that may be  producedin200support	 of  the prosecution or on behalf  of  the  accused.Similarly,  it	has  been  pointed out	that  there  are  no'provisions in s. 207A corresponding to those of s.  209(2),and  s. 213(2), empowering the magistrate to  discharge	 theaccused; nor is there any provision in the impugned s.	207Acorresponding to s. 215 relating to quashing of commitments.Further, it was pointed out that whereas s. 209(1)  containsthe  words  "  not sufficient  grounds	for  committing	 theaccused	 person", sub-s. (6) of s. 207A has the words  "  nogrounds	 for committing the accused".  It has  further	beenargued that in the new procedure adopted in the impugned  s.207A,  the accused person has been deprived of the  benefitsunder ss. 162 and 215 of the Code, and under ss. 27, 101  to106  and  114-1ll. (g) of the Evidence Act.  It	 has,  thus,been  sought to be made out that the procedure laid down  ins. 207A in the matter of commitment is less advantageous  tothe   accused  persons	than  the  one	prescribed  in	 thesucceeding sections of Chapter XVIII.We   shall   assume  for  the  purpose	of   examining	 theconstitutionality of the impugned provisions of the  amendedCode  that  there  are	differences  in	 the  two  kinds  ofprocedure  envisaged in Chapter XVIII of the Code,  relatingto commitment proceedings, but it is by no means clear	thatthe changes introduced by the amending Act XXVI of 1955	 arealways	to  the	 disadvantage or  prejudice  of	 an  accusedperson.	  It  is  a well-known fact that  the  amending	 Actaforesaid  introduced changes into the old Code with a	viewto simplifying and expediting procedure relating to trial ofoffences  and  to inquiries preceding such trials.   It	 hasalso  to be remembered that the Code has  always  prescribeddifferent procedures for trial of offences varying with	 thegravity	 of the offences charged, or with the power  of	 thecourt  before  which an accused person is placed  on  trial.Generally  speaking, minor offences have been  made  triablesummarily,  or	the  same accused person in  respect  of  anoffence	 triable summarily, may be so tried by a  magistratespecially  empowered  in  that	behalf,	 or  may  be   triedaccording to the ordinary procedure by a magistrate not so       401       empowered.  Less serious offences are triable by magistrates       and more serious offences are triable by a Court of  Session       or  by a High Court after there has been a  preliminary	in-       quiry  and investigation by a police officer, or an  inquiry       by  a magistrate, commonly described as commitment  proceed-       ings,  or,  after inquiry by a Civil or	Revenue	 Court,	 in       connection with certain specified offences committed in	the       course  of  or in relation to judicial  proceedings  or	in'       respect	of  proceedings	 affecting  the	 administration	 of       justice.	  The Code has further classified offences  triable       by  magistrates	of any class or by  magistrates	 of  higher       classes.	  There is, again, a cross-division of	cases  into       warrant	cases  and summons cases.  With	 reference  to	the       powers of police officers, offences have been classified	 as       cognizable offences and non-cognizable offences.	 Thus,	the       principle  of  classification of offences and  of  different       categories  of cases relating to the trial of offences is  a       well-establisbed	 rule  of criminal procedure.  It  is  true       that  for  the first time, the impugned sections	 have  pre-       scribed	two different procedures in respect  of	 commitment       proceedings  as already indicated, but we have  to  remember       that  there is absolutely no difference in the procedure	 at       the trial in contra-distinction to the procedure relating to       the enquiry leading up to commitment of an accused person to       a  Court of Session or a High Court in cases triable  exclu-       sively  by  such a Court.  It must also be  remembered  that       every  case  involving  a serious offence  comes	 under	the       category	 of 'cognizable case' in respect of which a  police       officer	may  arrest  a person named as	an  accused  person       without	warrant and investigate the case without any  order       of  a magistrate in that behalf Hence, ordinarily  speaking,       as  soon	 as information of the commission of  a	 cognizable       offence has been laid before a police officer in-charge of a       police  station,	 it becomes his duty to	 record	 the  first       information; and even in the absence of such a first  infor-       mation if such an officer receives information reading to  a       suspicion  that a cognizable offence has been committed,	 he       has to investigate the case and take all steps necessary for       the apprehension and       402       arrest  of the persons alleged to have been  concerned  with       the  crime.  Even in cases which are not, in the	 first	in-       stance,	of  cognizable	nature, it becomes the	duty  of  a       police  officer to investigate such a case if he is  so	or-       dered  by a competent magistrate, taking cognizance  of	the       offence	under  s. 190 of the Code.  In all such	 cases,	 it       becomes	the duty of a police officer in-charge of a  police       station, or of a superior officer if deputed to	investigate       a case, to follow the procedure laid down .in Chapter XIV of       the Code.  Under s. 169 of the Code, if, as a result of	the       investigation  under Chapter XIV, the police officer  making       the investigation, comes to the conclusion that there is	 no       sufficient  evidence  or reasonable ground of  suspicion	 to       justify	the forwarding of the accused to a  magistrate,	 he       has to release the accused person if in custody.	 If, on the       other  hand,  on such an investigation, it  appears  to	the       investigating  officer that there is sufficient evidence	 or       reasonable  ground  of  suspicion, it becomes  his  duty	 to       forward	the  accused to a competent magistrate to  try	the       accused or to commit him for trial.  Section 173 of the Code       requires	 the  investigation  to be  concluded  without	any       unnecessary delay and the submission of a report	 containing       the result of the investigation, to a competent	magistrate.       After the submission of the police report, the police  offi-       cer  in-charge of a police station, before the  commencement       of  the inquiry or trial by a magistrate, has to furnish	 to       the  accused, free of cost, a copy of the report	 aforesaid,       of  the first information report and of all other  documents       or relevant extracts thereof, on which prosecution  proposes       to  rely,  including  statements and  confessions,  if  any,       recorded	 under	s. 164, and the statements  recorded  under       sub-s.  3  of s. 161, of all persons  whom  the	prosecution       proposes to examine as witnesses.       On receipt of the police report and the documents aforesaid,       under  s. 173 of the Code, the magistrate concerned  has	 to       make up his mind whether the case has to be tried by him	 or       by some other competent magistrate or by a Court of  Session       or  a High Court.  If the magistrate finds that the case	 is       triable	exclusively by a Court of Session or a High  Court,       he has       403       to  follow  the new procedure laid down in s.  207A  At	the       commencement of the inquiry before the magistrate, when	the       accused	appears before him, the magistrate has	to  satisfy       himself	that the documents referred to in s. 173 have  been       furnished  to the accused and to have them furnished if	the       police  officer has not done his duty.  The magistrate  then       has  to record the evidence of such witnesses as	 figure	 as       eyewitnesses  to	 the occurrence.- and are  produced  before       him.  'He has also the power, in the interest of justice, to       record  such  other evidence of the prosecution	as  he	may       think  necessary, but he is not obliged to 'record any  evi-       dence.  Without recording any evidence but after considering       all the documents referred to in s. 173 and after  examining       the accused person and after hearing the parties, it is open       to  the	magistrate to discharge the  accused  person  after       recording  his  reasons that no ground  for  committing	the       accused	for trial has been made out, unless he	decides	 to       try the accused himself or to send him for trial by  another       magistrate.   If, on the other hand, he finds that  the	ac-       cused  should  be committed for trial,, he  is  required	 to       frame a charge disclosing the offence with which the accused       is  charged.  The accused is then required to submit a  list       of  persons whom he wishes to be summoned, to give  evidence       at his trial.  After all this, the case is placed before the       Court  of Session or the High Court for trial in	 accordance       with the procedure laid down by the Code.       But if the investigating police officer, instead of  submit-       ting  a charge-sheet as required by a. 173, submits what	 is       popularly called the "final report" to the effect that there       was no evidence in support of the prosecution case and  that       it was not a fit case for a trial either by a magistrate	 or       by a Court of Session or High Court, the matter may not	end       there.	It  is	open to the first informant  or	 any  other       person interested in prosecuting the accused person, to make       a  regular petition of complaint before a  competent  magis-       trate under s. 190 of the Code.	The magistrate, upon taking       cognizance  under that section, may start an inquiry of	his       own, notwithstanding the fact that the police       52       404       has  refused  to prosecute the case.  The magistrate,  in  a       case triable exclusively by a Court of Session or by a  High       Court,  has to follow the procedure laid down in s. 208	and       subsequent sections of Chapter XVIII.  The magistrate  natu-       rally  has  to make a record of the evidence  given  by	the       complainant  and such other witnesses as may have been  pro-       duced  in  support of the prosecution or on  behalf  of	the       accused	if  the accused chooses to adduce any  evidence	 at       that  stage.  Ordinarily, an accused person does not  choose       to do so for the fear that he might disclose his defence too       early.	After recording the evidence adduced on	 behalf	 of       the  prosecution	 as also on behalf of the accused,  if	ad-       duced, and examining the accused for the purpose of enabling       him  to explain any circumstances appearing in the  evidence       against him, the magistrate may either discharge the accused       person  if he finds that there is no sufficient	ground	for       committing  him	for trial after recording his  reasons,	 or       direct him to be tried by himself or some other	magistrate.       The order of discharge may be made by the magistrate even at       an  earlier stage if he records the reasons for	considering       the  charge to be groundless, or, he may commit the  accused       for trial after framing a charge declaring the offence  with       which  the accused has been charged.  It is also open to	 an       accused	person, if the magistrate in his discretion  allows       him to do so, to examine more witnesses.	 If after examining       those additional witnesses, the magistrate is satisfied that       there are no sufficient grounds for committing the  accused,       he may cancel the charge and discharge the accused.       It  will, thus, be seen that where the  magistrate  conducts       commitment proceeding as on a complaint, the accused has the       advantage of three stages at which he may be discharged.	 It       has, therefore,. been contended on behalf of the	 appellants       that the procedure under s. 207A is less advantageous to the       accused	than the other procedure.  The answer to this  con-       tention is that the Legislature, in its wisdom, has proceed-       ed  on  the basis that it is primarily the function  of	the       State through its police officers who are charged with the				   405       duty  of preventing the commission of crime and of  bringing       offenders  to  justice, to prosecute  criminals	or  alleged       criminals' in serious cases, that is to say, cases involving       not only personal injury to the complainant but also  public       peace and order.	 Such police officers have been enjoined by       law  to	see  to it that all persons alleged  to	 have  been       concerned  in a crime of that character, should be  speedily       brought	to  justice.  Chapter XIV of the  Code,	 as  stated       above, lays down the procedure which police officers have to       follow.	Hence, the Code has provided that all cases involv-       ing public peace and order, should be investigated by public       servants	 who  are expected to be vigilant in  bringing	all       offenders  to justice without any avoidable delay.   If	the       police  have not thought it necessary or feasible to  do	 so       after following the procedure laid down in Chapter XIV,	the       private party may figure before the magistrate as  complain-       ant  The magistrate has got, therefore, to be more  vigilant       in  seeing  that private vendetta and  considerations  other       than those of vindicating justice, are not allowed to inter-       fere with the administration of public justice.	Hence,	the       procedure laid down in section 208 and the sections  follow-       ing  that  section, naturally gives  greater  facilities	 to       persons accused of an offence, to vindicate their character.       As indicated above, there is no doubt that there are materi-       al differences in the two procedures relating to	 commitment       according  as the case has been investigated by a  competent       police officer who has submitted a charge-sheet and a report       under  section 173 of the Code, or, a  competent	 magistrate       has  taken cognizance of an offence on a complaint.  In	the       latter case, the procedure before the committing	 magistrate       is more elaborate.  But is it always to the advantage of	 an       accused	person that there should be an elaborate  procedure       before  such a magistrate and not a summary one?	 It is	the       avowed  policy of the Legislature and there can be no  doubt       that  it	 is in the general interest  of	 administration	 of       justice,	 that crimes should be investigated  and  criminals       brought to justice as expeditiously as circumstances of	the       case would       406       permit.	 That  must also be in the interest of	an  accused       person himself if he claims not to be guilty of any offence.       Generally speaking, therefore, only a real offender would be       interested  in  prolonging  the inquiry or trial	 so  as	 to       postpone the day of judgment.  If a person has been  falsely       or wrongly accused of an offence, it is in his interest that       he should get himself declared innocent by a competent court       as  early  as possible.	In view	 of  these  considerations,       there  cannot  be the least doubt that the  Legislature	has       been well-advised to amend the procedure relating to commit-       ment proceedings in cases which have been investigated by  a       competent  police  officer.   The  Legislature  has  rightly       retained	 the old elaborate .procedure only in  those  cases       which  have not been investigated by such a public  officer,       or, after investigation, have been declared not to be fit to       be proceeded with in public interest.       Having  found that there are substantial differences  intro-       duced  by the impugned provisions, we have to  consider	the       question	 of the constitutionality of those provisions.	 At       the threshold, it is pertinent to observe that these  provi-       sions  have  not in any way affected the	 procedure  at	the       trial.	After a case has been committed to a Court of  Ses-       sion,  the  procedure for the trial of  offences	 in  either       class  of cases, remains the same.  Hence, all  those  cases       which  came up to this Court in which it was laid down  that       the  law introduced substantial changes in the procedure	 at       the  trial, to the disadvantage of an accused  person,  have       absolutely  no  relevance  to the present  case.	  The  main       attack on the constitutionality of those provisions is based       on Art. 14 of the Constitution.	This Court had to  consider       the provisions of that article in a series of cases, namely,       Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. The Union of India (1), The State       of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara (2), The, State of West Bengal v.       Anwar  Ali  Sarkar (3), Kathi Raning Rawat v. The  State	 of       Saurashtra(4), Lachmandas       (1) [1950] S.C.R. 869.	     (3) [1952] S.C.R. 284.       (2) [1951]S.C.R. 682.	     (4) [1952] S.C.R. 435.				   407       Kewalram	 Ahuja v. The State of Bombay (1), Qasim  Razvi	 v.       The  State of Hyderabad(2), Habeeb Mohamad v. The  State	 of       Hyderabad(3)  The State of Punjab v. Ajaib Singh(4),       which were all referred to in the case of Budhan Choudhry v.       The State of Bihar(5), which is the nearest case to the case       now  before  us, with this distinction that  in	that  case,       there  was a difference at the trial stage itself.  In  that       case,  the  same accused person in respect of the  same	of-       fence,  could  be tried under section 30 of the	Code  by  a       magistrate  empowered under that section, and by a Court	 of       Session,	 if the offence happened to have taken place  in  a       jurisdiction  to which section 30 had not been applied.	 In       that  case, this Court upheld the constitutionality of  that       section	of the Code, and repelled the Contention  that	the       provisions  of that section infringed the fundamental  right       to  equality guaranteed by art. 14 of the Constitution.	 In       the course of his judgment, Das J. (as he then was) made the       following observations which apply to the case in hand  with       full force :       "......... It is now well-established that while article	 14       forbids	class  legislation, it does not	 forbid	 reasonable       classification  for the purposes of legislation.	 In  order,       however, to pass the test of permissible classification	two       conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (1) that the classifi-       cation must be founded on an intelligible differentia  which       distinguishes  persons or things that are  grouped  together       from others left out of the group and (II) that that differ-       entia must have a rational relation to the object sought	 to       be achieved by the statute in question.	The  classification       may be founded on different basis; namely, geographical,	 or       according  to objects or occupations or the like.   What	 is       necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of       classification  and the object of the Act  under	 considera-       tion.  It is also well-established by the decisions of  this       Court that article 14 condemns       (1)  [1952] S.C.R..710.       (2)  [I953] S.C.R. 581.       (3)[1953] S.C.R. 661.       (4)  [1953] S.C.R. 254.       (5)  [1955] 1 S.C. R. 1045, 1049.       408       discrimination  not only by a substantive law but also by  a       law of procedure."       The later case before this Court dealing with. the  question       of  discrimination in respect of provisions of the  Code	 is       the one reported in Matajog Dobey v. H.C. Bhari(1).  In that       case, the constitutionality of section 197 of the Code,	was       questioned.  The contention raised in that case was that the       section vested arbitrary power in the Government to grant or       withhold sanction which could be withheld or granted at	the       sweet  will  of the Executive.  This  Court  overruled  that       contention and held that a discretionary power is not neces-       sarily discriminatory.       Applying the principles laid down by this Court to the  case       in hand to judge whether or not there has been objectionable       discrimination, there could not be the least doubt that	the       Legislature has provided for a clear classification  between       the  two kinds of proceedings at the commitment stage  based       upon  a very relevant consideration, namely, whether or	not       there  has been a previous inquiry by a	responsible  public       servant	whose  duty it is to discover crime  and  to  bring       criminals  to speedy justice.  This basis of  classification       is clearly connected with the underlying principle of admin-       istration  of  justice that an alleged  criminal	 should	 be       placed  on  his trial as soon after the	commission  of	the       crime  as  circumstances	 of the case  would  permit.   This       classification cannot be said to be unreasonable and not	 to       have any relation to the object of the legislation,  namely,       a more speedy trial of offences without any avoidable delay.       For  the reasons given above, it must be held that there	 is       no discrimination and that the provisions of Art. 14 of	the       Constitution  have not been contravened.	 The provisions	 of       the Code, impugned in this case, must, therefore, be held to       be constitutional.  The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed.       Appeal dismissed.       (1) 1955] 2 S.C.R. 925.				   409