PETITIONER:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH	Vs.RESPONDENT:C.   TOBIT AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/02/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.BOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1958 AIR  414		  1958 SCR 1275ACT:Criminal Procedure-Petition of appeal-If must be accompaniedby certified copy of judgment or order appealed against-Codeof Criminal Procedure (Act V of 1898), s. 419.HEADNOTE:The word 'Copy' occurring in s. 419 Of the Code of  CriminalProcedure  means a certified copy and a petition  of  appealfiled under that section must, therefore, be accompanied  bya certified copy of the judgment or order appealed against.Ram  Lal v. Ghanasham Das, A.I.R. (1923) Lah. 150,  referredto.Firm  Chota  Lal-Amba Parshad v. Firm Basdeo  Mal-Hira	Lal,A.I.R. (1926) Lah. 404, distinguished.Consequently,  where  a	 State Government  filed  an  appealagainst	 an order of acquittal under s. 417 of the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  with  a  plain  copy  of  the  judgmentappealed against and put in a certified copy of it after theperiod	of limitation prescribed for the appeal had  expiredand the High Court dismissed the appeal as time-barred, thatorder was correct and must be affirmed.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CriminalAppeal No. 128 of 1955.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated February 8,  1955,of the Allahabad High Court in Government Appeal No. 165  of1954,  arising out of the judgment and order dated July	 24,1953,  of  the	Court of the Civil  and	 Sessions  Judge  atGorakhpur in Sessions Trial No. 5 of 1953.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the appellant.S.   N. Andley, for the respondents.1958.  February 14.  The following Judgment of the Court wasdelivered byDAS  C. J.-The respondents before us were put up  for  trialfor  offences under ss. 147, 302, 325 and 326, Indian  PenalCode  read with s. 149 of the same Code.  On July 24,  1953,the  temporary	Civil Sessions Judge,  Gorakhpur,  acquittedthem, The State of Uttar Pra-1621276desh  apparently  felt	aggrieved  by  this  acquittal	 andintended  to  appeal to the High Court under s. 417  of	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure.  Under art. 157 of	 the  IndianLimitation  Act	 an  appeal under the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure from an order of acquittal is required to be filedwithin six months from the date of the order appealed  from.The  period  of limitation for appealing from the  order  ofacquittal  passed  by the Sessions Judge  on  July  24,1953,therefore,  expired on January 24, 1954.  That day  being  aSunday	the Deputy Government Advocate on January 25,  1954,filed  a.  petition of appeal on behalf of  that  State.   Aplain  copy of the judgment sought to be appealed  from	 wasfiled with that petition.  The High Court office immediatelymade  a note that the copy of the judgment filed along	withthe  petition  of appeal did not appear to  be	a  certifiedcopy.	After  the  judicial records of the  case  had	beenreceived  by the High Court, an application for a  certifiedcopy  of the judgment of the trial court was made on  behalfof  the State on February 12, 1954.  The certified copy	 wasreceived  by  the  Deputy Government  Advocate	on  February23,1954	 and  he  presented it before  the  High  Court	 (inFebruary 25, 1954, when Harish Chandra J. made an order thatthe certified copy be accepted and that three days'  furthertime  be granted to the appellant for making an	 applicationunder  s. 5 of the Indian Limitation Act for  condoning	 thedelay  in the filing of the certified copy.  Accordingly  anapplication  for  the condonation of delay was made  by	 theappellant on the same day and that application was  directedto be laid before a Division Bench for necessary orders.The application came up for hearing before a Division  Benchconsisting of M. C. Desai and N. U. Beg JJ.  Ai the  hearingof  that  application  learned	counsel	 appearing  for	 theappellant  urged that as there was, in the circumstances  ofthis  case,  sufficient cause for not filing  the  certifiedcopy  along with the petition of appeal the delay should  becondoned  and  that, in any event, the filing of  the  plaincopy  of  the  judgment of the trial court  along  with	 thepetition of appeal constituted a sufficient compliance	withthe requirements			    1277of  s.	419  of the Code of Criminal  Procedure.   By  theirjudgment  delivered  on December 7, 1954, both	the  learnedJudges	took  the view that no case had been  made  out	 forextending the period of limitation under s. 5 of the  IndianLimitation  Act and  dismissed the  application	 and nothingfurther	 need  be said on that point.  The  learned  judges,however,  differed on the question as to whether the  filingof  a  plain  copy  of the  judgment  appealed	from  was  asufficient  compliance with the law, M. C. Desai J.  holdingthat it was and N. U. Beg J. taking the contrary view.	 Thetwo Judges having differed they directed the case to be laidbefore	the  Chief  Justice for obtaining  a  third  Judge'sopinion	 on  that question.  Raghubar Dayal J. to  whom	 thematter was referred, by his judgment dated January 31, 1955,expressed the opinion that the word " copy " in s. 419 meanta certified copy, and directed his opinion to be laid beforethe  Division  Bench.  In view of the opinion of  the  thirdJudge, the Division Bench held that the memorandum of appealhad not been accompanied by " a copy " within the meaning ofs. 419 and that on February 25, 1954, when a certified	copycame  to  be filed the period of  limitation  for  appealingagainst the order of acquittal passed on July 24, 1953,	 hadalready expired and that as the application for extension ofthe  period of limitation had been dismissed the appeal	 wastime barred and they accordingly dismissed the appeal.	 Thelearned	 Judges,  however,  by	the  same  order  gave	 theappellant  a  certificate that the case was a  fit  one	 forappeal to this Court.  Hence this appeal. Section 419 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, under  whichthe appeal was filed, provides as follows:-" 419.	Every appeal shall be made in the form of a petitionin  writing presented by the appellant or his  pleader,	 andevery  such petition shall (unless the Court to which it  ispresented otherwise directs) be accompanied by a copy of thejudgment or order appealed against, and, in cases tried by ajury,  a  copy	of the heads of the  charge  recorded  undersection 367.1278The  sole  question raised in this appeal  is  whether	thissection requires a petition of appeal to be accompanied by acertified  copy of the judgment or order appealed from.	  Itwill be noticed that the section requires " a copy " of	 thejudgment  to  be filed along with the  petition	 of  appeal.There  can be no doubt that the ordinary dictionary  meaningof  the word " copy " is a reproduction or transcription  ofan  original  writing.	As the section does not,  in  terms,require	 a  certified  copy, it is urged on  behalf  of	 theappellant  that	 the  word  " copy "  with  reference  to  adocument has only one ordinary meaning namely: a  transcriptor  reproduction  of the original document  and	 that  therebeing  nothing uncertain or ambiguous about the word "	copy",  no	question of construction or  interpretation  of	 thesection	 can at all arise.  It is contended that it  is	 theduty  of  the  court to apply  its  aforesaid  ordinary	 andgrammatical meaning to the word " copy " appearing in s. 419and  that it should be held that the filing of a plain	copyof  the	 judgment along with the petition of  appeal  was  asufficient compliance with the requirements of that section.The  matter, however, does not appear to us to be  quite  sosimple.	  A  "	copy " may be a plain copy, i.	e.,  an	 un-official copy, or a certified copy, i. e., an official copy.If  a  certified  copy of the judgment	is  annexed  to	 thepetition  of appeal nobody can say that the requirements  ofs. 419 have not been complied with, for a certified copy  isnone the less a " copy ". That being the position a questionof  construction does arise as to whether the word " copy  "used in s. 419 refers to a plain copy or to a certified copyor covers both varieties of copy.  It is well settled that "the  words  of a statute, when there is	 doubt	about  theirmeaning,  are  to be understood in the sense in	 which	theybeat  harmonise	 with the subject of the enactment  and	 theobject which the Legislature has in view.  Their meaning  isfound not so much in a strictly grammatical or	etymologicalpropriety  of language, nor even in its popular use,  as  inthe  subject or in the occasion on which they are used,	 andthe  object to be attained.  " (Maxwell's Interpretation  ofStatutes, 10th Edition,			    1279page 52).  In order, therefore, to come to a decision as  tothe  true  meaning of a word used in a Statute	one  has  toenquire	 as to the subject-matter of the enactment  and	 theobject which the Legislature had in view.  This leads us  toa  consideration  of some of the relevant   sections  of theCode  of  Criminal Procedure and other enactments  having  amaterial bearing on the question before us.Section	 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is  inChapter	 XXVI headed "Of the Judgment ", requires  that	 thejudgment  in every trial in any criminal court	of  originaljurisdiction  shall be pronounced in open court and  in	 thelanguage  of  the court.  Section 367  requires	 every	suchjudgment to be written by the presiding officer (or from hisdictationtion ) in the language of the court or in  English,containing  the	 point	or  points  for	 determination,	 thedecision  thereon  and the reasons for	the  decision.	 Thejudgement  has	to  be dated land signed  by  the  presidingofficer in open court.	Except as otherwise provided by law,s. 369 forbids the court, after it has signed its  judgment,from  altering or reviewing the same except to correct	mereclerical  errors.   After  the judgment	 is  pronounced	 andsigned it has, under s. 372, to be filed with the record  ofproceedings and becomes a part of the record and remains  inthe custody of the officer who is in charge of the  records.Under  s. 371, when an accused is sentenced to death and  anappeal lies from such judgment as of right, the court is  toinform	him  of	 the period within which he may,  if  he  sowishes,	 prefer	 his  appeal and when  he  is  sentenced  toimprisonment  a	 copy of the findings and sentence  must  assoon  as may be after the delivery of the judgment be  givento him free of cost without any application.  This, however,is without prejudice to his right to obtain free of cost  onan  application made by him, a " copy " of the	judgment  ororder  and  in	trials by jury a " copy " of  the  heads  ofcharge	to  the	 jury.	The copy that  is  supplied  to	 theaccused under sub-s. (4) of s. 371 is not a full copy of theentire	judgment, but the copies supplied to him under	sub-ss. (1) and (2) of s. 371 on application made by 1280him  are  full copies of the judgment or the  heads  of	 thecharge	to  the jury as the case may be.  The  copy  of	 thefindings' and the sentence which is supplied to the  accusedunder  sub-s.  (4)  without   his asking  for  the  same  ispresumably  to enable him to decide for himself	 whether  hewould  appeal against his conviction and the sentence.	 Thecopies, which are supplied to the accused under sub-ss.	 (1)and  (2) on his application for such copies,  are  obviouslyfull  copies of the entire judgment or the heads of  chargesas the case may be and are intended to enable him to preparehis grounds of appeal should he decide to prefer one and  tofile the same along with his petition of appeal as  requiredby  s. 419 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  There are  noprovisions  corresponding to s. 371 for giving any  copy  ofthe   judgment	to  the	 State	or  the	 public	  prosecutorrepresenting  the  State  in case of  an  act  uittal.	 If,therefore,  the	 State	desires to file	 an  appeal  againstacquittal under s. 417 of the Code of Criminal Procedure theState  will have to -procure a copy of the judgment  or	 theheads of charge in order to enable it to file the same alongwith  its petition of appeal and thereby to comply with	 therequirements  of s. 419.  According to s. 74 of	 the  IndianEvidence Act a judgment, being the Act or record of the	 actof a judicial officer, would be included in the category  ofpublic	documents.   Under s. 548 of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure if a person affected by a judgment desires to havea copy of the judge's charge to the jury or of any order  ordeposition or other part of the record he has the right,  onapplying for such copy, to be furnished therewith.  A persondesirous  of such a copy has to apply for it to	 the  publicofficer	 having	 the custody of it and, under s. 76  of	 theIndian	Evidence Act, such public officer is bound to.	givethat person, on demand, a copy of it on payment of the legalfees thereof together with a certificate written at the footof  such copy that it is a true copy of such document,	thatis  to	say, to supply to the applicant what is known  as  acertified copy.	 Therefore, whether it is the accused personwho applies for a copy under s. 371 ,1281sub-ss.	 (1) and (2) or it is the State which applies for  acopy,  the  copy supplied by the public officer	 must  be  acertified  copy.  Then when s. 419 requires that a  copy  ofthe  judgment or of the heads of charge be filed along	withthe petition of appeal, it is not unreasonable to hold	thatit is the certified copy so obtained that must be filed.Under  arts. 154, 155 and 157 of the Indian  Limitation	 Actthe  petition  of  appeal has to be filed  within  the	timespecified in those articles.  Obviously it may take a littletime  to apply for and procure a certified copy.   In  orderthat  the  full	 period of limitation be  available  to	 theintending appellant s. 12 of the Limitation Act permits	 thededuction  of the time requisite for obtaining the  copy  ofthe judgment or the heads of charge in ascertaining  whetherthe  appeal is filed within time.  A certified copy  of	 thejudgment  will	on  the face of it show when  the  copy	 wasapplied for, when it was ready for delivery and when it	 wasactually  delivered and the court may at a glance  ascertainwhat  time  was requisite for obtaining the copy  so  as  todeduct	the  same  from the computation	 of  the  period  oflimitation.   Taking all relevant facts into  consideration,namely,	 that  a St copy " of the judgment has to  be  filedalong  with the petition of appeal, that the copies  of	 thejudgment  which the accused gets free of cost under  s.	 371(1)  and (2) read with s. 76 of the Indian Evidence Act	 andwhich  the  State can obtain on an application	made  by  itunder s. 76 of the last mentioned Act can only be  certifiedcopies, that the time requisite for obtaining such copies isto  be	excluded  from	the computation	 of  the  period  oflimitation  all quite clearly indicate that the copy  to  befiled with the petition of appeal must be a certified copy.Section	 419  requires	a  copy of  the	 judgment  or  orderappealed against to be filed not without some purpose.	Thatpurpose becomes clear when we pass on to s. 421 of the	Codeof  Criminal Procedure.	 That section enjoins the court,  onreceiving the petition of appeal and copy of the judgment ororder  appealed	 from under s. 419, to peruse the  same	 andafter1282perusing the same to do one of the two things, namely, if itfinds that there is no sufficient ground for interfering, todismiss	 the  appeal summarily or when the  court  does	 notdismiss	 the appeal summarily, then  under s. 422  to  causenotice	to be given to the appellant or his pleader  and  tosuch  officer as the Provincial Cxovernment may	 appoint  inthis behalf, of the time and place at which such appeal willbe heard and furnish such officer with a copy of the groundsof  appeal and in a case of appeal under s. 417, as  in	 thepresent	 case,	to cause a like notice to be  given  to	 theaccused.   The	act  of summarily rejecting  the  appeal  oradmitting  it and issuing notice is necessarily	 a  judicialact  and obviously it must be founded on  proper  materials.The authenticity or correctness of the copy of a judgment isalso  essential	 in order to enable the appellate  court  tomake   interlocutory   orders	which	may   have   seriousconsequences.	In the case of an appeal by the	 accused  hemay ask for the stay of the execution of the order, e.g., ofthe  realisation  of the fine or he may move the  court	 forbail.	Likewise in the case of an appeal by the State,	 theState may ask for the accused to be apprehended and  broughtbefore	the court under warrant of arrest.  Orders  made  onthese applications are all judicial acts and accordingly  itis essential that the appellate court in order to take thesejudicial   decisions  have  proper  materials	before	 it.Therefore,  it is of the utmost importance that the copy  tobe  filed with the petition of appeal is a full and  correctcopy of the judgment or order appealed against.	 Under s. 76of  the	 Indian Evidence Act the public officer	 who  is  tosupply a copy is required to append a certificate in writingat the foot of such copy that it is a true copy and then  toput,  the date and to subscribe the same with his  name	 andofficial  title.  Therefore, the production of	a  certifiedcopy ipso facto and without anything more will show ex faciethat  it is a correct copy on which the appellate court	 maysafely	act.   The fact that the appellate court is  by	 lawenjoined  to  peruse  the  copy of  the	 judgment  and	takejudicial  decision on it indicates that it must have  beforeit a correct copy of -the judgment			    1283and  this  further indicates that the copy  required  to  befiled  with the petition of appeal under s. 419 should be  acertified  copy which will ipso facto assure  the  appellatecourt of its correctness.It is said that the appellate court may not summarily rejector  admit the appeal or make an inter' locutory order  untilthe  record  is produced or until a certified  copy  of	 thejudgment or order is presented before it.  There is no doubtthat  the  court can under s. 421 of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure call for the record of the case, but the court  isnot  bound to do so.  The calling for the records  in  everycase  or  keeping  the	proceedings  in	 abeyance  until   acertified  copy	 is presented before the court is  bound  toinvolve	 delay	and there is no apparent  reason  why  thereshould	be  any	 delay	in  disposing  of  criminal  mattersinvolving  the	personal liberty of the	 convicted  accused.All  this inconvenience may easily be obviated if s. 419  beread and understood to require a certified copy to be  filedalong with the petition of appeal.Learned	 counsel  for the appellant urges that	in  case  ofurgency	 the  court need not wait until the  record  or	 thecertified copy is received, but may call upon the  appellantto adduce evidence to prove the correctness of the  judgmentin  order  to  induce the court to act upon it	and  take  ajudicial  decision thereon.  In the first place there is  nosuch procedure envisaged in the Code of Criminal  Procedure.In  the	 next place adoption of such a procedure  may  causemuch  delay  and in the third place no	question  ordinarilyarises	under  s.  419 of proving  the	correctness  of	 thejudgment  under appeal in the way in which a document is  tobe  proved  in order to tender it in evidence in  the  case.But  assuming  that the correctness of	the  judgment  underappeal is to be established then as soon as the appellant isout  to " prove" by oral evidence of witnesses the  contentsof the original judgment so as to establish the	 correctnessof  the plain copy filed along with his petition  of  appealthe question will immediately arise whether such evidence isadmissible  under the law.  As already stated s. 367 of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure requires the judgment to be1631284reduced	 to writing.  Section 91 of the Indian Evidence	 Actprovides, inter alia, that in all cases in which any  matteris required by law to be reduced to the form of a  document-and  a judgment is so required,,no evidence shall  be  givenfor  the  proof	 of  the terms of  such	 matter	 except	 thedocument  itself  or secondary evidence of its	contents  incases  in which secondary evidence is admissible  under	 theearlier	 provisions  of	 that Act.  In the  absence  of	 theproduction  of,	 the original judgment if a witness  is	 putinto  a	 witness box and is asked to say  whether  the	copyproduced before the appellate court is a correct copy of theoriginal judgment filed of record in the trial court he willnecessarily  have to say that he read the original  judgmentand  from  his	memory he can say that	the  copy  correctlyreproduces  the text of the original judgment.	 This  meansthat  he will give secondary evidence as to the contents  ofthe original judgment which under the law is required to  bereduced to the form of a document.  A further question will,therefore,  arise  if  such  evidence,	which  at  best	  issecondary evidence, is admissible under the Indian  EvidenceAct.  As already stated the judgment, which under s. 367  ofthe  Code  of Criminal Procedure has to be  in	writing	 andunder  s.  372	has  to be filed  with	the  record  of	 theproceedings,  becomes,	under s. 74 of the  Indian  EvidenceAct,  a	 public	 document.' As the original  judgment  is  apublic	document  within  the  meaning	of  s.	74,  only  acertified  copy	 of  such  document and	 no  other  kind  ofsecondary   evidence  is  admissible  under  S.	 65.	Thiscircumstance also indicates that the word " copy " in s. 419means,	in the context, a certified copy and so it was	heldin  Ram	 Lat  v. Ghanasham Das (1).  The  decision  in	FirmChhota	LalAmba	 Parshad v. Firm Basdeo	 Mal-Hira  Lal	(2),proceeded on its peculiar facts, namely , that no  certifiedcopy could be obtained as the original judgment could not betraced	in the record and the decision can be  supported  onthe  ground  that  the	court  had,  in	 the  circumstances,dispensed with the production of a certified copy.(i) A.I.R. (1923)Lab. 150.   (2) A.I.R. (1926) Lah. 404.			    1285Learned	 counsel for the appellant next urges that the	factthat the appellate court to which the petition of appeal  ispresented  is given power to dispense with the filing  of  acopy  of  the judgment appealed against indicates  that	 theLegislature did not consider the c. filing of the copy to beessential  and	that  if  the filing  of  the  copy  is	 notessential  and	copy can be wholly dispensed with,  a  plaincopy  should be sufficient for the purpose of s. 419.	Thispower of dispensation had to be given to the court for	verygood  reasons.	 In  certain  cases  an	 order	staying	 theoperation  of  the order sought to be appealed from  may  beimmediately  necessary and the matter may be so urgent	thatit  cannot brook the delay which will inevitably occur if  acertified copy of the judgment or order has to be  obtained.In  some cases it may be that a certified copy of  the	samejudgment is already before the same court in an analogous orconnected appeal and the filing of another certified copy ofthat  very  judgment may be an unnecessary  formality.	 Thecircumstance  that the court may, in urgent cases,  dispensewith  the  filing of a copy does not imply that	 in  a	casewhere  the  court does not think fit to do so it  should  becontent	 with  a plain copy of the document which  ex  faciecontains no guarantee as to its correctness.Reference has been made to a number of sections of the	Codeof Criminal Procedure where the word " copy " has been	usedand  to	 ss. 425, 428, 442 and 511 which, it is	 said,	talkabout certified copy and on this circumstance is founded theargument   that	 where	the  Legislature  insists   on	 theproduction of a certified copy it says so expressly and thatas  the word "copy" used in s. 419 is not qualified  by	 theword  " certified " the inference is irresistible  that	 thefiling of a plain copy was intended to be sufficient for thepurpose of that section.  Turning to the four last mentionedsections,  it will be noticed that the first three  sections425,  428 and 442 do not really refer to any certified	copyof any document at all.	 Section 425 requires that  whenevera case is decided on appeal by the High Court under  ChapterXXXI it shall certify its judgment or order to the court  bywhich the finding, sentence or1286order  appealed against was recorded or passed.	  It  reallymeans  that  the High Court is to formally  communicate	 itsdecision  on the appeal to the court against whose  decisionthe  appeal  had been taken.  Likewise s. 428 requires	thecourt taking additional evidence to certify such evidence tothe appellate court.  Section 442 requires the High Court tocertify	 its decision on revision to the court by which	 thefinding,  sentence or order revised was recorded or  passed.Lastly	s.  511 lays down the mode of proof  of	 a  previousconviction  or	acquittal, namely, by the production  of  anextract	 certified under the hand of the officer having	 thecustody	 of  the records of the court to be a  copy  of	 thesentence  or order.  Therefore, the four sections relied  ondo  not in reality refer to certified copy of a judgment  ororder  supplied to a party on his application for such	copyand  consosuently no argument such as has been sought to  beraised	is maintainable.  The question whether a copy  in  aparticular  section means a plain copy or a  certified	copymust  depend on the subject or context in which the  word  "copy " is used in such section.	 In many sections relied on,the  " copy " is intended to serve only as a notice  to	 theperson	concerned  or the public and is not intended  to  beacted  upon by a court for the purpose of making a  judicialorder  thereon.	 We think that N. U. Beg J. rightly  pointedout  that  the	object	and purpose  of	 such  sections	 aredistinguishable	 from  those  of s. 419 where  the  copy  isintended  to  be acted upon by the appellate court  for	 thepurpose of founding its judicial decision on it.  We do	 notconsider it desirable on the present occasion to express anyopinion	 as  to	 whether any of	 those	sections  relied  onrequires a plain copy or a certified copy.  It will  sufficefor  us to hold that so far as s. 419 is  concerned,  havingregard	to the context and the purpose of that section,	 thecopy to be filed along with the petition of appeal must be acertified copy.We  have also been referred to several sections of the	Codeof  Civil Procedure where the word " copy " is used.  We  donot consider it right to enter upon a1287discussion as to the true interpretation of the word " copy"occurring  in any of those sections for we think  that	eachsection	 in each Act must, for its true meaning and  effect,depend on its own language, context and setting.In  the result, for reasons stated above, we agree that	 theorder passed by the Allahabad High Court on February 8, 1955was correct and this appeal should be dismissed.Appeal dismissed.