PETITIONER:AHER RAJA KHIMA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF SAURASHTRA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:22/12/1955BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANAIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR  217		  1955 SCR  (2)1285ACT:Appeal against Acquittal--Scope of--Powers of  Court-Guidingprinciples--Code  of Criminal Procedure (Act V of 1898),  s.417.HEADNOTE:  Per BOSE, and CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR JJ. (VENKATKRAMA  AYYARJ.  dissenting).   It is well settled that  the	 High  Courtshould	not set aside an order of acquittal under s. 417  ofthe  Code  of Criminal Procedure simply because	 it  differsfrom the trial Court as to the appreciation of the evidence;there  must be substantial and compelling reasons for  doingso.  Where the trial Court takes a reason. able view of	 thefacts  of the case, interference is not	 justifiable  unlessthere are really strong reasons for holding otherwise.  Amar	Singh  v. State of Punjab ([1953]  S.C.R.  418)	 andSurajpal Singh v. State ([1952] S.C.R. 193), referred to.   The accused in a criminal case must be given the  benefitof  every reasonable doubt and, therefore, when he offers  areasonable  explanation of his conduct, although  he  cannotprove  it,  that explanation should ordinarily	be  acceptedunless the circumstances indicate that it is false.  Consequently,	 in a case where an accused person,  chargedunder  SS. 302 and 447 of the Indian Penal Code,  repudiatedhis  confession at the earliest opportunity as	having	beenmade under Police threats administered to him at night whilein  jail  custody and there was evidence to  show  that	 thePolice	had  access to him there, and there was	 nothing  todisplace  his statement that he was threatened by them,	 thefinding	 of the Sessions Judge that the confession  was	 notvoluntary  in character was fair and reasonable and  in	 theabsence	 of any compelling reason the High Court should	 nothave set aside the order of acquittal.1286As  the	 evidence otherwise was insufficient  to  warrant  aconviction the accused was acquitted.  Per  VENKATARAMA AYYAR J. This is not a case in which	 theSupreme	 Court	should	interfere  under  Art.	136  of	 theConstitution.	The Constitution by  specifically  providingfor an appeal on facts under Art. 134(1) intended to excludeit under Art. 136 and like the Privy Council this Court willnot  function  as  a further Court of  appeal  on  facts  incriminal cases. The fact that the appeal in the High Court was one  againstan  order of acquittal makes no difference as the powers  ofan  appellate  Court are the same in  all  appeals,  whetheragainst acquittal or against conviction. Pritam Singh v. The State ([1950] S.C.R. 453), Sheo  Swarupv.  King-Emperor ([1934] L.R. 61 I.A. 398) and Nur  Mohammadv. Emperor (A.I.R. 1945 P.C. 151), relied on. The  expression  "compelling  reasons"	 used  in   SurajpalSingh's case should be read only in the context of that caseand  should  not  be treated as a rigid	 formula  so  as  torestrict  the  powers of the Court, or the right  of  appealconferred  on the State by s. 417 of the Code or to place  ajudgment of acquittal in a position of vantage and give	 theaccused a protection which the law does not afford to  them.Such  a formula can be of use only as guiding principle	 forthe appellate Courts in deter-mining questions of fact.  Surajpal   Singh  v.	The  State  ([1952]   S.C.R.   193),considered.  Consequently,	 the findings arrived at by the	 High  Courtwere not open to review by this Court under Art. 136 of	 theConstitution  and  as  there was  evidence  apart  from	 theretracted  confession to support the view, it had  taken  onmerits, the appeal must be dismissed.JUDGMENT: CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 64  of1955.  On  appeal  by special leave from the judgment  and  orderdated the 27th February 1954 of the Saurashtra High Court atRajkot in Criminal Appeal No. 108 of 1953 arising out of thejudgment and order dated the 5th March 1953 of the Court  ofSessions  Judge, Halar Division in Sessions Case -No. 26  of1952. V.  N. Sethi, for the appellant. R.  Ganapathy Iyer and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1955.  December 22.BOSE J.-The only question in this appeal is whether the HighCourt bad in mind the principles1287we  have enunciated about interference under section 417  ofthe Criminal Procedure Code when it allowed the appeal filedby the State against the acquittal of the appellant.  It is,in  our opinion, well settled that it is not enough for	 theHigh  Court to take a different view of the evidence;  theremust also be substantial and compelling reasons for  holdingthat  the  trial  Court was wrong: Amar Singh  v.  State  ofPunjab(1) and if the trial Court takes a reasonable view  ofthe facts of the case, interference under section 417 is notjustifiable  unless  there  are really	strong	reasons	 forreversing that view: Surajpal Singh v. State(2).  The appellant was prosecuted under sections 302 and 447 ofthe Indian Penal Code for the murder of Aher Jetha Sida.  Itis not necessary at the moment to set out the facts.  It  isenough to say that the High Court based its conviction on  aretracted  confession plus certain circumstances  which	 thelearned Judges regarded as corroborative.  The learned Sessions Judge excluded the confession on	 theground that it was neither voluntary nor true.	The  learnedJudge's	 reasoning  about its falsity is weak.	 We  do	 notthink  there is material on which a positive  finding  aboutits  falsity can be reached but *hen he says that he is	 notsatisfied that it was made voluntarily we find it impossibleto  hold that is a view which a judicial mind acting  fairlycould not reasonably reach.  The  facts  about that are as follows.   The	offence	 wascommitted  during the night of the 18th/19th May 1952.	 Thepolice	were  informed	on the 19th morning  at	 9-30.	 Thepolice	station	 was only 4 miles distant and  they  startedinvestigation  immediately.  The appellant was	arrested  onthe  20th.  He says in his examination under  section,	342,Criminal Procedure Code, that three other persons were	alsoarrested  but were later released.  They are Bhura,  Dewayatand Kana.  The investigating officer was not examined, so hecould  not  be asked about this and the point could  not  bedeveloped further.  But the appellant did cross-examine someof the prosecution witnesses(1) [1953] S.C.R. 418, 423.(2) [1952] S.C.R. 193, 201,1288about  this and elicited contradictory replies.	 Kana,	P.W.4, said-  "I  was  not arrested.  Dewayat,  Barat  Lakhmansingh	 wasarrested first........ All the three of us were released thesame evening.  We were not put under arrest at all".   Dewayat,  P.W.  5, denied that either he or	any  of	 theothers were arrested and Maya, P.W. 15, said the same  thingbut  Meraman, P.W. 11, insisted that Dewayat  was  arrested.In  the absence of the SubInspector it is difficult  to	 saydefinitely that the appellant is wrong.	 It is evident	thatthe others were at least suspected, especially as one of thepoints	made  against  the appellant is	 that  he  was	seensharpening an axe on the evening of the murder and  Meraman,P.W. II, says that not only was the appellant sharpening  anaxe  but so was Dewayat.  If this was a matter of  suspicionagainst	 the appellant it must equally have been so  againstDewayat	 and accordingly there is nothing improbable in	 theappellant's statement about these other arrests; and as	 theSubInspector was not there to clear up the matter it is onlyfair to accept what the appellant says. The  appellant	 was sent to a Magistrate at 8 p.m.  on	 the21st  for the recording of a confession but  the  Magistratedid not record it till the 3rd of June.	 He was examined  asP.W.  21 and explained that be gave the appellant  ten	daysfor  reflection.   The	length of time	is  unusual  but  noobjection about its fairness to the accused could reasonablyhave  been  raised  bad it not been for the  fact  that	 thejudicial  lock-up  is in charge of a police guard  which  isunder the direct control, orders and supervision of the verySubInspector  who  had conducted the investigation  and	 hadearlier	 suspected and, according to the  accused,  actuallyarrested three other persons; and two of them are now calledas  prosecution	 witnesses to depose against  the  appellantabout	a  matter  on  which  the  prosecution	 lay   greatimportance,  namely  the sharpening of an axe.	 The  dangerthat  they  might  exaggerate their stories  or	 give  falseevidence  in their anxiety to avert further  suspicion	fromthemselves is1289one that cannot be overlooked.  But  apart  from  that.  This is the	description  of	 thejudicial  look-up  which  the Magistrate  who  recorded	 theconfession (P.W. 21) gives us:  "A  police  guard  is	 on 24 hours  duty  at	the  BhanwadJudicial  lock-UP.   The prisoner is so	 placed	 within	 thecompound  wall that he can see the police all the  24  hoursthrough	 the bars and can talk.	 These police  officers	 areunder  the  police  Sub-Inspector.  A  peon  is	 working  aswarder.	 He stays there on duty by day.	 At night he is	 notthere.  Clerk	 Jailor does not remain present there.	 The  policelock-up	 is within the ail itself.  Inside the jail gate  isthe police lock-up.  The police can go into the police lock-up when they choose".  Now  the  appellant  repudiated  his	confession  at	 theearliest  opportunity.	 He  told the  Committing  Court  on12-12-1952 in a written statement that-  "After  my  arrest by the police I was sent to  jail.	  Atnight	time  the  police,  having  arrived  at	 the   jail,threatened  me	to  make confession  before  Court  as	theydirected.   The police frightened me with beating if  I	 didnot  confess.  As a result of which, through fright, I	havemade a false confession as directed by the police and  whichI now deny".  And  in  his	examination  under  section  342,   CriminalProcedure Code, he said- "I  have  made	 the  confession  because  the	police	werethreatening to beat me in the jail.  He  repeated these statements in the Sessions	 Court.	  Hesaid he was beaten at the time of his arrest and then  afterhe had been sent to the jail he said-  "I  was daily threatened.  They said 'confess the  offenceof murder.  We shall get you on remand.	 You will live as animpotent man'.	On the morning of the 3rd date, they took meto  a big police officer after	administering  extraordinarythreats.    Only  now  I  come	to  know  that	he  is	 theMagistrate"..,  Now it may be possible to take two views of this statementbut there are two important factors in every criminal  trialthat weigh heavily in favour of an accused person,: I one isthat the accused is entitled1290to the benefit of every reasonable doubt and the other.,  anoff-shoot of the same principle, that when an accused personoffers	a reasonable explanation of his conduct, then,	eventhough	 be  cannot  prove  his	 assertions,   they   shouldordinarily  be	accepted unless the  circumstances  indicatethat  they are false.  What the appellant said in this	caseis  not	 impossible;  such  things  do	happen	and  it	  isunderstandable	 that  the  police,  frustrated	  in   theirendeavour  to  find the culprit among three  other  persons,should make an all out endeavour to make sure of the fourth.We  do not say that happened here.  But that it	 might	havehappened  is obvious, and when the police absent  themselvesfrom  the  witness  box and  forestall	attempts  at  cross-examination,  we  find it impossible to hold  that  a  judgeacting	judicially,  and  hearing  in  mind  the   importantprinciples that we have outlined above, can be said to	havereached	 an  unreasonable or an unfair	conclusion  when  hededuces from these circumstances that there is a  reasonableprobability  that  the appellant's story is  true  and	thattherefore the confession was not voluntary.  The  only reason that the learned High Court	Judges	givefor displacing this conclusion is that   "in	Saurashtra........ though judicial and police  lock-ups  are placed under a common guard the  judicial  lock-upsare  in charge of Magistrates and are looked after by  theirclerks and peons, who are assigned the duties of jailors andwarders respectively" and they conclude-   "It	is therefore difficult to say that the police  couldhave effectively threatened him".  But what the learned Judges overlook is the fact that thiscontrol	 is only effective during the day and that at  nightneither the peon nor the clerk is there; and even during theday  the "clerk-cum-jailor does not remain  present  there".The  appellant said in his written statement that "at  nighttime the police, having arrived at the jail, threatened	 me,etc".	There  is  nothing on the record  to  displace	thisstatement.   Had  the Sub-Inspector or some  policeman	beenexamined as a witness and had the appellant omitted to1291cross-examine  him  about this, that might  have  raised  aninference   that   what	 the  accused  said  was   only	  anafterthought.  But here we find that this defence about	 theinvoluntary  nature of the confession due to threats by	 thepolice	was  raised at the outset, even	 in  the  CommittingMagistrate's Court, and was persisted in throughout and	 theappellant  did	what he could to build up this part  of	 hiscase  by cross examining the only official witness  who	 didappear,	 namely the Magistrate who recorded the	 confession;and  he	 succeeded  in establishing  that  there  was  ampleopportunity  for  coercion and threat.	The fact  that	thisdefence	 was raised in the Committal Court should  have	 putthe  prosecution on its guard and the absence of  refutationin  the Sessions Court is a matter that can legitimately  beused in the appellant's favour.	 In the circumstances, we donot  think  the	 High Court has	 squarely  met	the  learnedSessions Judge's reasoning and shown that there are  compel-ling reasons for holding that he was wrong; on the contrary,the learned Sessions Judge's hesitation is grounded on	wellestablished judicial principles.  Now  the  law is clear that a confession  cannot  be	usedagainst an accused person unless the Court is satisfied thatit  was voluntary and at that stage the question whether  itis  true  or false does not arise.  It is abhorrent  to	 ournotions of justice and fair play, and is also dangerous,  toallow a man to be convicted on the strength of a  confessionunless	it is made voluntarily and unless he  realises	thatanything he says may be used against him; and any attempt bya  person  in  authority to bully a  person  into  making  aconfession   or	 any  threat  or  coercion  would  it	onceinvalidate it if the fear was still operating on his mind atthe time he makes the confession and if it "would appear  tohim reasonable for supposing that by making it he would gainany  advantage	or avoid any evil of a	temporal  nature  inreference to the proceedings against him": section 24 of theIndian	Evidence  Act.	 That  is why  the  recording  of  aconfession  is hedged around with so many safeguards and  isthe1631292reason	why  magistrates  ordinarily  allow  a	period	 forreflection  and	 why an accused person is remanded  to	jailcustody	 and  is put out of the reach of  the  investigatingpolice	before he is asked to make his confession.  But	 theforce  of  these precautions is destroyed when,	 instead  ofisolating  the accused from the investigating police, he  isfor all practical purposes sent back to them for a period often  days.   It can be accepted that this was done  in	goodfaith  and we also think that the police acted	properly  insending the appellant up for the recording of his confessionon  the	 21st;	they could not have  anticipated  this	longremand to so-called "jail custody".  But that is hardly	 thepoint.	 The fact remains that the remand was made and	thatopened up the very kind of opportunities which the rules andprudence  say should be guarded against; and, as the  policeare  as	 human as others, a reasonable apprehension  can  beentertained  that they would be less than human if they	 didnot avail themselves of such a chance.  If  the confession is excluded, then there is not, in	 ouropinion, sufficient evidence against the appellant on  whicha conviction can be based.  It will now be necessary to set out the facts.  The murdered man is one Jetha.  He married Sunder, P.W. 3,about  three years before he was killed, but we gather	thatshe  had not gone to live with her husband; anyway, she	 wasliving	in the appellant's village Shiva with her people  atthe  time  of  the occurrence and  this	 afforded  the	pairopportunities for a long continued course of illicit amours,chances	 which	it seems they were not slow to	seize.	 Thehusband	 lived	in a village Kalawad which  is	three  milesdistant.  At the time of the murder arrangements were  beingmade  for Sunder to go to her husband and  preparations	 forthe  ceremonial	 appropriate to such occasions were  in	 thecourse	of progress.  The prosecution case is that this	 wasresented  by the appellant who wanted the girl for  himself;so he went to the husband's village Kalawad on the night  ofthe 18th/ 19th and murdered him with an axe which the prose-1293cution	say  belongs  to him and which	they  say  he  laterproduced. Both Courts hold that the motive is proved; and that can beaccepted. Next comes the evidence about the sharpening of the axe  onthe  evening  of  the 18th at Kana's house  in	the  villageShiva.	 The axe was produced in Court and Dewayat (P.W.  5)tells us that it was blunt.  Now there is nothing suspiciousor  unusual in a villager sharpening a blunt axe and, as  wehave  pointed out, Meraman (P.W. 11) says that	Dewayat	 wasalso  sharpening  an  axe at the same time  and	 place;	 andDewayat is one of the other three against whom suspicion wasdirected; also, the fact that the axe was sharpened in	thisopen  way in the presence of a number of persons,  includingtwo  strangers to the village, (the two	 Satwara  witnesses,P.Ws. 9 and 10), points to innocence rather than guilt. But  the  prosecution	do not rely on	this  alone.   Theirwitnesses  say that when the appellant was asked why he	 wassharpening his axe (Dewayat does not seem to have been put asimilar	 question  though he was doing the  same  thing)  hereplied	 that  he wanted to offer a green  coconut  to	LordShanker.   All	the witnesses are agreed that  this  has  nospecial	 significance and that they attributed	no  sinistermeaning	 to  it at the time.  It has  acquired	significanceonly in the light of after events.  Even	here, there seems to us to be some danger that	whatthe appellant really said has got mixed up, with what  thesewitnesses  say and, no doubt, honestly believe he said.	  Wesay this because Sunder, P.W. 3, and her mother Vali, P.W. 2tell  us that the appellant came to the mother that  eveningand offered her eight annas in lieu of a coconut.  It  seemsthat this is a customary offering given by relatives when  adaughter  leaves her parents' home for	her  father-in-law'splace.	The appellant is distantly related to Sunder and  sosuch  an  offering would be normal, and as it was  made	 thesame  evening, apparently shortly after the other  incident,we think there is a strong probability that his remark aboutthe offering of a1294coconut had reference to this and was later thought to	havereference  to  a  vow:	the sort  of  mistake  that  personsreconstructing	a crime might easily make and then  honestlybelieve;  and we are the more prone to think that  this	 waswhat probably happened because the conduct attributed to theappellant  is  so  unlike that of  a  murderer	deliberatelyplanning  a cold blooded crime while, on the other band,  itis  wholly  consistent with innocence.	A  reasonable  doubtarises and the appellant is entitled to its benefit.  Next comes the evidence of Samant, P.W. 16, who says	thatbe saw the appellant that night on the outskirts of  Kalawadwhere  the  murder was committed.  He was  wearing  a  falsebeard  and a mask.  That of course is an important piece  ofevidence  but the danger of mistaking the identity of a	 manso  disguised at night cannot be disregarded, especially  asthis  witness  qualified  his statement at the	end  of	 hiscross-examination by saying: "The person was just like him".It is evident to us that his statement about identity is notbased  on his recognition of the appellant but on  the	factthat he saw a man who looked like the appellant and so, whenhe found that the appellant was under suspicion, he inferredthat the man must have been the appellant.  But that is	 thevery  question that the Court has to decide.  The only	factthat this witness can be said to prove is that be saw a	 manthat  night wearing a false beard and mask who	looked	likethe appellant. Then  we come to the recoveries.  The false beard and	maskwere found buried in the grounds of Dewayat's house and	 theappellant is said to have recovered them in the presence  ofpanchas.  But those discoveries are inadmissible in evidencebecause	 the  police already knew where	 they  were  hidden.Their  information  was not derived from the  appellant	 butfrom  Dewayat  (one  of the other suspects).   The  way	 thepolice	came to find this out was this.	 Dewayat  says	thatthe appellant confessed the murder to him and told him	thathe had gone there wearing a false beard and a mask and	thathe had buried these articles1295under  the  Shami  tree in the grounds	of  Dewayat's  bada.Dewayat says-  "Next the police called me to go to Kalawad.	At that timeRaja  had been arrested............ I was  interrogated.   Ispoke about the beard at that time.  Then the police came tomy field with Raja".If Meraman (P.	W. 11), read with the Confused statement  ofKana  (P.W.  4), is to be believed, Dewayat was	 also  underarrest either at the time or on the day before.	 As the Sub-Inspector  was not examined, we are unable to clear this  upand  so	 are bound to give weight to the  criticism  of	 theSessions Judge where he says-   "However,  Dewayat confesses that his statement  was	 notrecorded  on the 19th of May 1952 but was recorded on  20-5-1952 only after he was questioned by the police".  In  our opinion, not only is this evidence about  recoverynot admissible but the danger that Samant (P.W. 16)  mistookDewayat,  who  was also under strong suspicion,	 or  someoneelse  who looked like the appellant, for the appellant,	 hasnot been excluded.  Lastly,  there is the recovery of the axe.  But  this	 wasnot  hidden.   It  was kept behind an  earthen	jar  in	 theappellant's  house just as an axe might be normally kept  inany average household.	The only point of suspicion is	thatthe axe had stains of human blood on it.  But the difficultywe are faced with there is that the extent of the stains andtheir  position is not disclosed.  We have had	occasion  tocomment	 before on the very slovenly and ineffective way  inwhich  some  Chemical  Analysers do  their  duty.   This  isanother	 case  in  which what might otherwise  have  been  avaluable  piece of evidence has to be disregarded.  The	 axewas  not recovered till the 21st and was standing  where  itcould  have been handled by other members of the  household.In  any	 case,	villagers frequently  have  slight  cuts  orscratches or a prick from a thorn on their persons and a fewdrops  of  blood could easily be transferred to	 an  articlelike  an  axe  without anybody	noticing  or  knowing.	 Theimportant thing in a case like this, where everything1296is now seen to hang on this one fact, would be the extent ofthe blood and its position.  The postmortem reveals that theinjuries were incised and that the bleeding was profuse.  Iftherefore  there  was blood all along the cutting  edge	 andaround	it, that would have been a strong circumstance;	 butif  there was only a small smear of blood, say, on the	backof  the	 axe and none on or near the edge, then	 that  wouldhave  been  a circumstance for complete	 exoneration.	Wheneverything hangs on this one point, we cannot assume withoutproof  that  stains which might be  compatible	with  eitherguilt or innocence must have been of what we might term	 theguilty kind.On  a careful examination of the evidence in this  case,  weare  not satisfied that the circumstances  disclose  "strongand compelling reasons" to set aside the acquittal.The appeal is allowed.	The conviction and sentence are	 setaside and the appellant is acquitted.VENKATARAMA AYYAR J.-I regret I am unable to agree with	 thejudgment just delivered. The  appellant	 belonged  to the village  of  Katkora,	 anddeveloped intimacy with an unmarried woman called Sunder  inthe neighboring village of Shiva.  Subsequently, Sunder	 wasmarried	 to  one Jetha of Kalawad, a village about  3  milesdistant from Shiva.  It had been arranged to take Sunder  toher  husband's	house  on the 19th May 1952,  and  for	thatpurpose, Sida, the father of Jetha, had come to Shiva on the18th.	The case of the prosecution was that  the  appellantwas  determined to prevent Sunder from joining her  husband,and with that object he went to Kalawad on the night of	 the18th,  and  killed Jetha with his axe, when be	was  asleep.The  murder came to light next morning, and the	 matter	 wasreported to the police.	 The appellant was arrested on 20-5-1952.	On  his information the police	recovered  from	 hishouse at Katkora an axe, and the panchnama discloses that itthen bad stains of blood which was subsequently found by theChemical Analyst to be human.  The appellant next showed  tothe police1297a false beard, which was buried under a tree in the  villageof Shiva.  It is alleged that this was worn by the appellantat the time of the murder.  On  21-5-1952 the police sent the appellant to the  First-Class Magistrate (P.  W. 21), with a letter stating that  hewanted	to  make  a confession.	  The  Magistrate,  however,decided	 to  give him time "to cool down", and	put  him  injudicial  lock-up.  He then went on duty to  another  place,and on his return, recorded the confession of the appellant,which is as follows:  "  I,	 having gone to his Wadi, have killed him.   I	havekilled	him  with axe.	I have killed him for  the  sake  ofSunderbai.   Sunderbai is the wife of Jetha.  I had  illicitconnection  with her.  I have murdered Jetha Sida  with	 theidea  of marrying Sunderbai.  I gave him an axe-blow on	 theneck.	At  that  time I had put on a tunic and	 a  pair  oftrousers.  I bad a turban on my head.  I had worn artificialbeard.	After the murder, the artificial beard buried in thefield of Dewanand Mope.	 I took the axe to my house".  The	appellant  retracted  this  confession	before	 theCommitting  Magistrate,	 as made under police  beatings	 andthreats.  He was then sent up to the Sessions Court,  Halar,to  take  his trial, which took place with the aid  of	fourassessors.There  was  no	direct	evidence  that	the  appellant	 hadcommitted the murder.  The circumstantial evidence on  whichthe prosecution sought to establish his guilt consisted of aconfession  made by him to the Magistrate, the	recovery  ofthe  axe  and the false beard, and the existence  of  strongmotive.	 There was, besides, a considerable body of evidencethat on the 18th May the appellant was haunting the  villageof Shiva where Sunder was residing, with an axe in his	handand  threats in his tongue.  The assessors were	 unanimouslyof  the	 opinion  that the appellant  was  guilty,  but	 theSessions  Judge	 disagreed  with them,	and  held  that	 theconfession  was neither true nor voluntary, and that  thoughthere  were strong grounds for suspecting him, the  evidencewas not sufficient to convict him, and so acquitted him.  There was an appeal against this judgment by the1298State to the High Court of Saurashtra.	The learned  Judges,differing from the Sessions Judge, held that the  confessionwas  true and voluntary, that there was ample  corroborationthereof	 in the evidence, and that even apart from  it,	 theother  facts proved by 'the prosecution were  sufficient  toestablish the guilt of the appellant.  They accordingly	 setaside  the order of acquittal passed by the Sessions  Judge,convicted the appellant under section 302 and sentenced	 himto  transportation  for life.  It is against  this  judgmentthat the present appeal by special leave has been brought.  The question is whether having regard to the principles onwhich  this Court exercises its jurisdiction  under  article136,  there  are grounds for interference  in  this  appeal.Those  principles  are	well-settled  and  may	briefly	  berecapitulated.	 Prior to the abolition of the	jurisdictionof  the	 Privy Council, the law of this country did  not  ingeneral	 provide for appeals against judgments of  the	HighCourts	in  criminal  matters.	Indeed, the  policy  of	 thelegislature as expressed in sections 404 and 430 of the Codeof  Criminal  Procedure and departing in this  respect	fromthat  adopted  in the Civil Procedure Code,  has  been	thatdecisions  of  courts passed in criminal appeals  should  befinal  and  subject to specified exceptions, not open  to  afurther	 appeal on facts.  So far as judgments of  the	HighCourts	are  concerned,	 the limitation	 on  further  appealimposed	 by  the  Indian  statutes  could  not	affect	 thejurisdiction  of  the  Privy Council  to  entertain  appealsagainst	 them  in  the exercise of the	prerogative  of	 theCrown.	 That was a power which the Privy Council  possessedin  respect  of	 orders passed by the courts  all  over	 theDominions,   and  the  limits  within  which  the   JudicialCommittee  exercised  that power were thus  stated  by	LordWatson in In re Abraham Mallory Dillett(1):  "The	rule  has been repeatedly laid down,  and  has	beeninvariably  followed,  that Her Majesty will not  review  orinterfere with the course of criminal proceedings, unless itis shown that, by a disregard of (1) [1887] 12 A.G. 459, 467.1299the  forms  of legal process, or by some  violation  of	 theprinciples of natural justice, or otherwise,substantial	 andgrave injustice has been done".These principles were followed in quite a number of  appealsagainst judgments of Indian courts in criminal matters.	  InDal Singh v. King-Emperor(1), the Privy Council, stating thepractice of the Judicial Committee in dealing with an appealin a criminal case., observed:  "The	general principle is established that the  Sovereignin Council does not act, in the exercise of the	 prerogativeright to review the course of justice in criminal cases,  inthe  free fashion of a fully constituted Court	of  criminalappeal.	  The exercise of the prerogative takes	 place	onlywhere	it  is	shown  that  injustice	of  a  serious	 andsubstantial  character has occurred.  A mere mistake on	 thepart  of the Court below., as for example, in the  admissionof improper evidence, will not suffice if it has not led  toinjustice  of  a  grave	 character.   Nor  do  the  JudicialCommittee advise interference merely because they themselveswould  have  taken a different view  of	 evidence  admitted.Such questions are, as a general rule, treated as being	 forthe  final decision of the Courts below".  In Taba Singh  v.Emperor(2)    ,	  Lord	 Buckmaster   observed	 that	 theresponsibility	for the administration of  criminal  justicerested	with the courts in India, and that the	Board  wouldnot  interfere "unless there has been some violation of	 theprinciples   of	  justice  or  some   disregard	  of   legalprinciples".  In George Gfeller v. The King(3), which was anappeal from the Supreme Court of Nigeria, Sir George  Rankinobserved:  "Their  Lordships have repeated ad nauseam  the  statementthat  they  do not sit as a Court of Criminal  Appeal.	 Forthem  to  interfere with a criminal sentence there  must  besomething so irregular or so outrageous as to shock the verybasis  of  justice: per Lord Dunedin in	 Mohindar  Singh  v.Emperor(4).  Cf.  Muhammad Nawaz v. Emperor(5)(1)  [1917] L.R. 44 I.A. 187, 140.   (2)     [1924]   I.L.R.48 Bom. 515.(3)  A.I.R. 1943 P.C. 211.   (4)   [1932] L.R. 59 I.A.	233,235.(5) [1941] L.R. 68 I.A. 126, 129.1641300On these principles, the Privy council refused in Macrea, Exparts(1)  leave to appeal on the ground of  misdirection  tothe  jury and in Mohindar Singh v. Emperor'(2)on the  groundthat a wrong view had been taken of the law.  Thus,	 the  law was well-settled that	 the  Privy  Councilwould  not entertain appeals against judgments	in  criminalcases, unless there was an error of . procedure or disregardof legal principles amounting to a denial of fair trial	 andresulting  in grave injustice.	Under the Constitution,	 theposition of the Supreme Court which has taken t he place  ofthe Privy Council is this.  Its jurisdiction as that of	 thePrivy Council in respect of criminal appeals may be  classedunder  two  categories,	 cases where a right  of  appeal  isexpressly granted by the Constitution or by the statutes, asfor example, articles 132(1) and 134 (1) of the Constitutionor  section 411-A(4) of the Code of Criminal  Procedure,  inwhich the scope of the appeal would depend upon the terms ofthe  enactments which confer the right; and cases' where  itis  called  upon to exercise its powers under  article	136,which	corresponds   substantially   to   the	 prerogativejurisdiction  exercised by the Privy Council with  referenceto  which  the	practice of  the  Judicial  Committee  mightusefully   be  referred	 to  for  indicating  the  area	  ofinterference. The  question was considered by this Court in Pritam  Singhv. The State(3), where the law was thus laid down:  "On  a careful examination of article 136 along  with	 thepreceding   article,   it   seems  clear   that	  the	widediscretionary power with which this Court is invested  underit  is	to be exercised sparingly and in  exceptional  casesonly .... The Privy Council have tried to lay down from timeto  time  certain principles for granting special  leave  incriminal cases, which were reviewed by the Federal Court  inKapildeo  v. The King(4).  It is sufficient for our  purposeto say that though we are not bound to follow them too(1)  [1893] L.R. 20 I.A. 90.   (2) [1932] L.R. 59 I.A.	233,235.(3)  [1950] S.C.R. 458, 458.	 (4) A.I R. 1950 F.C. 80.1301rigidly since the reasons constitutional and administrative,which  sometimes  weighed with the Privy Council,  need	 notWeigh  with us, yet some of those -principles are useful  asfurnishing  in	many cases a sound basis  for  invoking	 thediscretion   of	 this  Court  in  granting  special   leave.Generally speaking, this Court will not grant special leave,unless	 it   is   shown  that	 exceptional   and   specialcircumstances  exist, that substantial and  grave  injusticehas  been  done	 and  that the	case  in  question  presentsfeatures  of sufficient gravity to warrant a review  of	 thedecision appealed against".  The  preceding article referred to in the opening  passageis  clearly article 134.  Article 134(1) confers a right  ofappeal to this Court in certain cases, in terms unqualified,on questions both of fact and of law, and if the scope of anappeal	under  article	136 is to be  extended	likewise  toquestions   of	fact,  then  article  134(1)  would   becomesuperfluous.   It  is  obvious, that the  intention  of	 theConstitution  in  providing  for an appeal  on	facts  underarticles 134(1) (a) and (b) was to exclude it under  article136,  and  it strongly supports the  conclusion	 reached  inPritam	Singh  v. The State(1) that like the  Privy  Councilthis, Court would not function as a further court of  appealon facts in criminal cases.    Having  regard  to	the principles	enunciated  in	thisdecision.,  the	 question is whether  there  are  sufficientgrounds for interfering with the judgment of the High  Courtin  the present appeal.	 The point which the learned  Judgeshad to decide in the appeal was whether it was the appellantwho  had  murdered Jetha.  That is a pure question  of	factturning	 on  appreciation of evidence. -The High  Court	 hasgone into the matter fully, examined the entire evidence ex-haustively,  and in a judgment which is as closely  reasonedas  it	is elaborate, has come to the  conclusion  that	 theguilt  of  the	appellant has been  established	 beyond	 allreasonable   doubt.   Does  that  decision  call   for	 ourinterference in special appeal?.No, unless this Court is  to'function as a court of appeal on facts. (1) [1950] S.C.R. 453, 458.1302But then, it is argued that the appeal before the High Courtwas  one against acquittal, that such an appeal was  subjectto  the limitation that there should be	 compelling  reasonsfor  reversing an order of acquittal, and that it  would  beopen  to  this Court in special appeal to  consider  whetherthat limitation bad been duly observed.	 On this contention,two  questions	arise for determination: (1)  what  are	 thepowers of a court which hears an appeal against an order  ofacquittal?   And  (2)  what are the  grounds  on  which	 thedecision  of that court ban be reviewed by this Court  underarticle 136?   The	right  to appeal against an order  of  acquittal  isconferred  on  the  State  by section 417  of  the  Code  ofCriminal   Procedure,	and   is   in	terms	unqualified.Nevertheless, the view was taken at one time in some of	 thedecisions  that	 appeals against acquittals were in  a	lessfavoured position than appeals against convictions, and thatan  order  of  acquittal should not be	interfered  with  inappeal except "where through the incompetence, stupidity  orperversity   of	 certain  tribunal  such   unreasonable	  ordistorted  conclusions have been drawn from the evidence  soas  to produce a positive miscarriage of justice",  or	were"the lower court has so obstinately blundered or gone  wrongas  to	produce a result mischievous at once  to  the  admi-nistration  of	justice and the interests  of  the  public".Vide  Empress v. Gayadin(1), Queen-Empress  v.	Robinson(2),Deputy Legal Remembrancer v. Amulya Dwan(3) and King-Emperorv.  U  San Win(4).  In Sheo Swarup  v.-King-Emperor(5),	 thequestion  was raised for determination by the Privy  Councilwhether	 there was any legal basis for the limitation  whichthe above decisions had placed on the right of the State  toappeal	under  section 417.  Answering it in t	e  negative,Lord  Russell observed that there was "no indication in	 theCode  of any limitation or restriction on the High Court  inthe  exercise of its powers as an appellate tribunal",	thatno distinction was drawn(1) [1881] I.L.R. 4 All. 148.	  (2) [1894] I.L.R. 16	All.212.(3) [1914] 18 C.W.N. 666.  (4) [1982] I.L.R. 10 Rang. 312,(5)[1934] L.R. 61 I.A. 398, 403, 404.			    1303"between  an  appeal  from an order of	'acquittal  and	 an-appeal from a conviction", and that "no limitation should beplaced	upon that power unless it be found expressly  statedin the Code".. He went on to remark at page 404 that,  "the High Court should and will always give proper  weightand consideration to such matters as (1)     the  views	  ofthe  trial Judge as to the credibility of the  witness,	 (2)the  presumption  of innocence in favour of the	 accused,  apresumption  certainly not weakened by the fact that he	 hasbeen acquitted at his trial, (3) the right of the accused tothe  benefit  of  any  doubt, and (4)  the  slowness  of  anappellate  Court in disturbing a finding of fact arrived  atby a Judge who bad the advantage of seeing the witnesses".   These  observations, however, do not mean that the  scopeof  appeals  against acquittals is different  from  that  ofother appeals.	They merely embody the principles applicableto all appeals, civil and criminal, to appeals alike againstconviction  and	 acquittal.  Thus, if A files a	 suit  on  apromissory  note against B and the latter denies  execution,the burden is on the plaintiff to establish its genuineness.If  the trial Judge does not accept the evidence adduced  byhim and dismisses his suit and he appeals, he has the burdenstill  on  him	to prove on the evidence  adduced  that	 the-promissory note is genuine, and in discharging that  burdenhe has to show that the judgment appealed against is clearlywrong.	In Naba Kishore Mandal v. Upendra Kishore Mandal(1),Lord Buckmaster stated:  "The only further observation that their Lordships  desireto  make is to call attention once more to the fact that  inappeals	 the  burden of showing that the  judgment  appealedfrom  is wrong lies upon the appellant.	 If all he can	showis  nicely  balanced calculations which lead  to  the  equalpossibility  of the judgment on either the one side  or	 theother being right, he has not succeeded".  Adapting  these observations to criminal trial,  when	 theState appeals against an order of acquittal, it(1)  [1921] 42 M.L.J. 253, 257 (P.C.).1304has to establish on the evidence that the accused is guilty,and  to establish it, it has to satisfy the court  that	 thejudgment of the trial court is erroneous.  The	oft-repeatedobservation  that on acquittal the presumption of  innocencebecomes reinforced is merely this principle stated in  termsof criminal law.  Likewise, the weight to be attached by  anappellate  court to a finding of the trial court based	uponappreciation  of  oral evidence is the same  whether  it  isgiven  in a civil litigation or a criminal  trial.   Dealingwith  the  position of an appellate court  hearing  a  civilappeal,	  the  Privy  Council  observed	 in  Bombay   CottonManufacturing Co. v. Motilal Shivlal(1):   "It	is  doubtless true that on appeal  the	whole  case,including  the	facts,	is within the  jurisdiction  of	 theAppeal Court.  But generally speaking, it is undesirable  tointerfere  with the findings of fact of the Trial Judge	 whosees  and  hears  the witnesses and has	 an  opportunity  ofnoting their demeanour, especially in cases where the  issueis simple and depends on the credit which attached to one orother  of  conflicting	witnesses........  In  making  theseobservations their Lordships have no desire to restrict	 thediscretion   of	 the  Appellate	 Courts	 in  India  in	 theconsideration of evidence".    It is clearly these principles that Lord Russell had  inmind  when  he	made the observations at page  404  in	SheoSwarup	v.  King-Emperor2') quoted above, and that  will  beclear from the observation next following:   "To	state  this, however, is only to say that  the	HighCourt  in its conduct of the appeal should and will  act  inaccordance   with  rules  and  principles  well	 known	 andrecognized in the administration of justice".   The	scope  of  the	decision  in  Sheo  Swarup  v.	KingEmperor(2)  with  special  reference  to  the	observationsdiscussed above was thus explained by the Privy .Council  inNur Mohammad v. Emperor(3):   "Their  Lordships  were referred, rightly enough  to	 thedecision of this Board in the case in Sheo(1)  [1915] L.R. 42 I.A. 110; 118.  (2) [1934] L.R. 61	I.A.398.(3) A.I.R.1945 P.C. 151.1305Swarup v. King-Emperor(1), and in particular to the  passageat p. 404 in the judgment delivered by Lord Russell.   TheirLordships  do not think it necessary to read it	 all  again,but  would  like to observe that there really  is  only	 oneprinciple,  in the strict use of the word, laid down  there;that  is  that the High Court has full power  to  review  atlarge all the evidence upon which the order of acquittal wasfounded, and to reach the conclusion that upon that evidencethe order of acquittal should be reversed". These authorities establish beyond all controversy that  anappeal	against	 acquittal  under  section  417	 stands,  asregards	 the  powers  of an appellate  court,  on  the	samefooting as appeals against conviction.  If that is the true scope of an appeal under section	417,where  then does the doctrine of "compelling  reasons"	comein?  And how do we fit it among the powers of a court  underthat  section?	 The  words compelling reasons"	 are  not  alegislative expression.	 They are not found in section	417.As far as I have been able to discover, it was first used inSurajpal  Singh and others v. The State(2), wherein  it	 wasobserved:  "It  is well established that in an appeal  under  section417 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the High Court has	fullpower  to  review  the	evidence upon  which  the  order  ofacquittal  was founded, but it is equally well-settled	thatthe  presumption  of innocence of the  accused.	 is  furtherreinforced  by	his acquittal by the trial  court,  and	 thefindings  of  the  trial court which had  the  advantage  ofseeing	the  witnesses	and hearing their  evidence  can  bereversed only for very substantial and compelling reasons".  Do  the  words "compelling reasons" in the  above  passageimport	a  limitation on the powers of a  court	 hearing  anappeal	under section 417 not applicable to a court  hearingappeals	 against conviction?  If they do, then it is  merelythe  old  doctrine that appeals against acquittal are  in  aless  favoured	position,  dressed in a new  garb,  and	 thereasons for rejecting it as unsound are as powerful as thosewhich found favour with the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup  v.King-Em-(1) [1934] L.R. 61 I.A. 398.  (2) [1952] S.C.R. 193, 201.1306peror(1) and Nur Mohammad v. Emperor(2).  But it is probablethat  these  words  were intended to express,  as  were	 thesimilar	 words	of  Lord Russell in  Sheo  Swarup  v.  King-Emperor(1),  that the court hearing an appeal under  section417  should  observe the rules which  all  appellate  courtsshould, before coming to a conclusion different from that ofthe   trial  court.   If  so  understood,   the	  expression"compelling reason s" would be open to no comment.   Neitherwould  it be of any special significance in its	 applicationto appeals against acquittals any more than appeals  againstconviction.   But  the expression has been quoted  in  laterjudgments,  especially	of the courts below, as if  it	laiddown  that  in appeals against acquittal,  the	standard  ofproof required of the appellant was far higher than what thelaw  casts on appellants in other appeals, and as the  words"compelling  reasons" are vague and indefinite to a  degree,the result has not seldom been that even when Judges hearingappeals under section 417 were convinced of the guilt of theaccused,  they	refrained from setting aside  the  order  ofacquittal   owing  to  the  dark  and  unknown	 prohibitioncontained in the expression.  That is the impression which Ihave  formed  in the appeals which have come before  me.  inthis  Court.  There is always a danger in taking  a  phrase,attractive  and	 telling-in  its context,  out	of  it,	 anderecting  it  into a judicial formula as if it laid  down  aprinciple universal in its application.	 And this danger  isall the greater when the phrase is of undefined import,	 andrelates to appreciation of evidence.  It is in the interestsof the public that crimes should be punished, and it is withthis object that section 417 confers on the State a right toappeal against acquittal.  To fetter this right through suchexpressions  as "compelling reasons" would not merely be  tolegislate   but	 to  defeat  the  plain	 intention  of	 thelegislature  that an accused in an appeal against  acquittalshould. have only those rights which the State in an  appealagainst	 conviction or a respondent in a civil	appeal	has,and that he is to enjoy no special protection.(1) [1934] L.R. 61 I.A. 398.	  (2) A.I.R. 1945 P.C. 151.1307The  fundamental  objection  to	 regarding  the	  expression"compelling  reasons"  as  a  rigid  formula  governing	 thedecision  of an appeal under section 417 is that it  puts  ajudgment  of acquittal, however rendered, in a	position  ofvantage	 which	the  law did not accord to  it,	 and  throwsaround	the  accused who gets an order of acquittal  in	 thetrial  court  a protection which the law did not  intend  togive  him.   In my judgment, this is a	situation  in  whichgreat mischief must result, and the interests of the  publicmust suffer'  If  the expression "compelling reasons" does not impose  arestriction on the powers of a court hearing an appeal undersection	 417,  and  if	its true scope is  to  guide  it  inarriving at a decision, the question whether this Court	 caninterfere  with	 that  decision on the	ground	that  it  iserroneous  presents no difficulty.  The decision would	thenbe one on a question of fact depending upon the appreciationof  evidence,  and  this court	cannot,	 on  the  principlesenunciated  in Pritam Singh v. The State(1)  interfere	withit.   This position is, in fact, concluded by the  decisionsin  Sheo  Swarup  v. King-Emperor(2)  and  Nur	Mohammad  v.Emperor(3).  In Sheo Swarup v. King-Emperor(2), the SessionsJudge bad characterised the prosecution witnesses as  liars,and  disbelieving their evidence had acquitted the  accused.On  appeal,  the  High	Court  reviewed	 the  evidence,	 anddiffering  from	 the  trial court as to	 the  weight  to  beattached  to  it,  convicted  the  accused.   Declining	  tointerfere  with	 this judgment, the Privy  Council  observedthat  even  though  there  was no  express  mention  in	 thejudgment  of the High Court that it had considered  all	 theparticulars  which  an appellate court	should	consider  indeciding  an appeal, there was "no reason to think that	 theHigh  Court  had  failed to take  all  proper  matters	intoconsideration in arriving at their conclusions of fact".  InNur  Mohammad v. Emperor(3), the judgment of the High  Courtdid  not  disclose  that  it  had  considered  the   mattersmentioned by Lord Russell at page 404(1) [1950] S.C.R. 453.	     (2) [1934] L R. 61 I.A. 398,(3) A.I.R 1945 P.C. 151.1651308in Sheo Swarup v. King-Emperor(1).  Nevertheless, the  PrivyCouncil dismissed the appeal observing:  "In  the present case the High Court judgment	 shows	thatthey  have been at pains to deal in detail with the  reasonsgiven  by the Sessions Judge for disbelieving the  group  ofwitnesses,  the	 Patwari and the other	three  alleged	eye-witnesses.  They have dealt in detail with them, showing  onthe  face  of their judgment that there is no  necessity  topresume in this case that they have not done their duty...."  These decisions are authorities for the position that whenin  an	appeal	under section 417 the  court  considers	 theevidence  and  comes  to its  own  conclusion  the  findingsrecorded by it are not, even when they result in a  reversalof  the order of acquittal, open to interference in  specialappeal.	  Different considerations would have arisen if	 thelaw  bad  provided a further appeal on facts  against  thoseorders	of reversal, in which case the appreciation  of	 theevidence  by the appellate court would be a matter  open  toreview	in  the superior court.	 That,	as  already  stated,would  be the position in an appeal under articles  132	 (1)and  134(1)  (a) and (b), but where, as in the	present,  noappeal on facts is provided, the decision of the High  Courtis not open to review by this Court under article 136 on theground that there were no compelling reasons for the learnedJudges to reverse an order of acquittal.  This is sufficient to entail the dismissal of this appeal.But, having gone through the evidence, I am of opinion	thateven  on  the  merits  the decision of	the  High  Court  iscorrect.   The	evidence  against the  appellant  is  whollycircumstantial, and consists mainly of (1) the existence  ofa strong motive, (2) the conduct of the appellant on the daywhen the murder was committed, (3) the recovery of a  blood-stained	 axe  and  a  false beard at  the  instance  of	 theappellant,  and	 (4) a confession made by  him	'before	 theMagistrate,  P.W. 21, on 3-6-1952.  Taking the above  items-seriatim,  it  is  the	case of	 the  prosecution  that	 theappellant was living on terms of inti- (1) [1934] L.R. 61 I.A. 398.1309macy with Sunder, and as she was to be taken on the 19th May1952  to Kalawad to join her husband, he wanted to  do	awaywith  him.   The  appellant admitted  that  he	had  illicitconnection  with  Sunder for some years,  and  the  SessionsJudge	also  found,  basing  himself  on  the	 prosecutionevidence, that the appellant  was very much agitated on	 thenight of the 18th.  A	 number	 of witnesses  deposed	thatthey saw him   on 18-5-1952 at Shiva sharpening his axe, andthat when questioned, he stated that be was going to offer agreen  coconut	to  Mahadevji, "can  expression	 "  say	 thelearned Judges "which in common parlance means sacrifice  ofa head".  The appellant denied that he went to Shiva on	 the18th,  but  his statement was, disbelieved by  the  SessionsJudge  who  was impressed by the quality and number  of	 theprosecution witnesses, and both the courts have concurred inaccepting their evidence on this point.   As  for the recovery of the axe, the	 appellant  admittedit, but he stated in his examination under section 342	thatthere  was no blood on it when he showed it to	the  police.The  Sessions  Judge,  was  not	 prepared  to  accept	thisstatement and observed:  "Accused  admits  that  this	is his	axe.   In  light  ofchemical analysis, there is no doubt that there were  stainsof  human  blood on the axe.  It is also  mentioned  in	 thePancbnama,  Ex. 21 itself that the Panch had suspected	thatthere were marks of human blood on this axe".  But  all  the same, he discounted the value of  this	evi-dence,	because	 according  to	him,  in  view	of   certaincircumstances "the presence of human blood on the axe is  byno  means  conclusive",	 and  that  "at	 best  it  raises  asuspicion  against  the accused".  Those  circumstances	 arethree:	Firstly,  the panch who witnessed  the	recovery  atKatkora	 belonged  to Kalawad, and the criticism is  that  alocal panch ought to have been got to witness the same.	 Thelearned Judges of the High Court did not think much of	thiscriticism,  as	the recovery at Katkora had to	be  made  inpursuance  of  the  statement  given  by  the  appellant  atKalawad,1310and  the police might have reasonably thought that the	samepanch should be present at both the places.  As the SessionsJudge has accepted the evidence of the panch that there wereblood  stains  at the time of the recovery of the  axe,	 hiscriticism  on this point lacks substance.  Secondly,  thoughthe  recovery  was  made on 21-5-1952, it was  sent  to	 themedical officer for report only on 27-5-1952, and the  delayis  suspicious.	 It is difficult to follow  this  criticism.When once the conclusion is reached that there was blood  onthe axe when it was recovered, this criticism has no meaningunless	it is intended to suggest that the  police  requiredsome  time  to wash the blood which was on the axe  at	the,time   of  its	recovery  and  to  substitute  human   bloodtherefore.   There is nothing in the evidence to  support  asuggestion  so	grotesque, and as observed  by	the  learnedJudges, if the police wanted to substitute blood, they wouldnot have taken so much time over it. Thirdly, in despatching the blood to the Chemical  Analyst,the  medical  officer sent the parcel containing  the  bloodscrapings  to the railway station, not through his own	peonor  the	 compounder in the hospital but	 through  the  localpolice,	 and  that, according to the Sessions  Judge,  is  asuspicious circumstance.  As the parcel was received  intactby  the Chemical Analyst at Bombay, it is difficult  to	 seewhat  the  point of the criticism is.	The  Sessions  Judgehimself observes:"I  do	not believe that the police  have  intercepted	thisparcel	and they deliberately sent an axe with human  blood.However, there is no doubt that the procedure adopted by thedoctor is wrong, and is capable of mischief".  It has not been explained and it is not possible to divinewhat  that mischief could have been in this case.   And	 whocould have been the mischief-maker unless it be the  police?The  Sessions  Judge  stated that be  did  not	believe	 thesuggestion made against the police, but that nevertheless isthe  assumption underlying his comment.	 "Anxious to  wound,afraid	 to   strike"  would  appropriately   describe	 thesituation.  The learned Judges disagreed with the  reasoningof1311the  Sessions  Judge,  and held that as	 the  appellant	 hadadmitted  the  recovery of the axe and as  there  was  humanblood  on it at that time, it was clear and cogent  evidencepointing  to his guilt.	 I am unable to find any  answer  tothis reasoning.   Pausing  here,  it will be seen that in   discussing	 thequestion of the recovery of the blood-stained axe, as indeedthroughout  the	 judgment, the learned	Sessions  Judge	 hastaken  up  an, attitude of distrust towards the	 police	 forwhich  it  is  difficult to find any  justification  in	 theevidence-an  attitude which, I regret to say, is becoming  agrowing	 feature  of judgments of  subordinate	Magistrates.When  at  the trial, it appears to the court that  a  policeofficer	 has,  in  the discharge of  his  duty,	 abused	 hisposition  and acted oppressively, it is no doubt  its  clearduty  to express its stern disapproval of his conduct.	 Butit  is	equally its duty not to assume such conduct  on	 thepart of the officer gratuitously and as a matter of  course,when  there is, as in this case, no reasonable basis for  itin  the evidence or in the circumstances.   The	 presumptionthat  a person acts honestly applies as much in favour of  apolice officer as of other persons, and it is not a judicialapproach  to distrust and suspect him without  good  groundstherefore.  Such an attitude could do neither credit to	 themagistracy nor good to the public.  It can only run down theprestige of the police administration.   It  is  the case of the prosecution	that  the  appellantunearthed  a false beard, which he had buried  underneath  ashami tree in Shiva, and that he had worn it at the time  ofthe  murder.  The appellant did not deny the  recovery,	 butstated	that  it was not he that had uncovered	it  but	 thejamadar.  Both the courts below have accepted the version ofthe  prosecution as true, but while the Sessions Judge	heldthat  it was not sufficient to implicate the appellant,	 thelearned Judges held otherwise.	P.W. 16 deposed that he	 sawthe  appellant at midnight on the 18th May on the  outskirtsof  Kalawad  wearing a false beard, and the comment  of	 theSessions Judge on this evidence is:" I do not see bow this evidence will prove the1312prosecution case beyond reasonable doubt.  At best, it	willsuffice to raise suspicion against the accused".  But if thebeard  was discovered by the appellant, then surely it is  avaluable link in the chain ofevidence against him.Then we come to the confession made by the appellant to P.W.21.   The  Magistrate  has deposed  that  he  had  satisfiedhimself	 that it was voluntary, before he recorded it.	 TheSessions  Judge did not discredit his testimony, but was  ofopinion that in view of certain circumstances the confessionwas  not voluntary.  Now, the facts relating to this  matterare these, The appellant was, as already stated, arrested onthe 20th May and discoveries of the axe and the false  beardwere  made through him, and on the 21st he was sent  to	 theMagistrate  with  a  letter  that  he  desired	to  make   aconfession.   The Magistrate has given evidence that he	 didnot  record  the  confession  at  once,	 as  he	 wanted	 theappellant "to cool down", and accordingly gave him ten	daysto reflect, and committed him to judicial lock-up.  There isnothing	 improper in this, and indeed ' it is a	 commendableprecaution  for	 ensuring  that	 the  confession  was	madevoluntary.    From  21-5-1952  to  3-6-1952  the   appellantcontinued  in judicial lock-up, and this is  a	circumstancewhich  normally	 should negative the  possibility  of  therehaving been a threat or inducement.  But the Sessions  Judgedeclined to attach any weight to it, because both the policelock-up	 and the judicial lock-up were situated in the	samecompound,  separated  by  a distance of 20  feet,  and	wereguarded by the same police officers, and though the judiciallockup had its own warder and clerk jailor, they kept  watchonly  during daytime, and therefore even though	 the  policecould have had no access inside the lock-up, they had "everyopportunity  to	 threaten  and	bully  the  accused".	 TheSessions Judge accordingly held that the confession was	 notvoluntary.   On	 appeal,  the  learned	Judges	came  to   adifferent conclusion.  They considered that the	 possibilityof  threats  having been uttered through the  bars  was	 tooremote and unsubstantial to form the 'basis for any1313conclusion,  and that all the circumstances  indicated	thatthe confession was voluntary.  These are the salient  pointsthat emerge out of the evidence.The position may be thus summed up:(1)  No	 special  weight  attaches to the  findings  of	 theSessions  Judge	 on the -around that they are based  on	 theevidence of witnesses whom he had the advantage of seeing inthe  box,  and believed.  The oral evidence was all  on	 theside of the prosecution, and that was substantially acceptedby  the	 Sessions  Judge.   His judgment  is  based  on	 theprobabilities  of the case, and of them, the learned  Judgeswere at least as competent to judge, as he.(2)  The  finding  of  the Sessions Judge in so	 far  as  itrelated	 to  the recovery of bloodstained  axe	was  clearlyerroneous, as it did not follow on his reasoning.(3)  As	 regards  the  confession,  the	 conclusion  of	 theSessions  Judge	 rests on nothing tangible, and	 is  largelycoloured  by a general distrust of the police, not based  onevidence or justified by the circumstances.(4)  The  learned  Judges  were of  the	 opinion  that	evenexcluding the confession, the other evidence in the case wassufficient to establish the guilt of the appellant.(5)  All  the  four assessors were of the opinion  that	 theappellant was guilty.  Now, returning to the two questions which have formed	 thebasis  of the preceding discussion, (1) what is it that	 theHigh Court has to do in exercise of its powers under section417, having regard to the findings reached by it and set outabove,	and  how does the doctrine of  "compelling  reasons"bear  upon  it?	 (2) What are the grounds on  which  we	 caninterfere  with	 its decision?	A court	 hearing  an  appealunder	section	  417  might  be   confronted	with   threepossibilities:	(i) It might come to the same conclusion  asthe trial court on the questions in issue, in which case, ofcourse, it should dismiss the appeal; (ii) It might considerthat  the evidence was not clear and conclusive one  way  orthe other, in which case its duty1314as  an	appellate court would be not to interfere  with	 thejudgment  appealed  against; and (iii) it might	 come  to  aconclusion  on an appreciation of the evidence	opposite  tothat  reached by the court of first instance, in which	caseit would clearly be its duty in exercise of its powers undersection	 417 to set aside the order of	acquittal.   Whereindoes the theory of "compelling reasons" come in the  scheme?There is no need for it in the second category, because evenapart  from  it, the same result must,	as  already  stated,follow on the principles applicable to all courts of appeal.Then,  there  remains the third category of cases.   If	 theHigh Court comes to the conclusion on an appreciation of theevidence that the appellant is guilty, has it, nevertheless,to  confirm  the  order of acquittal on the  basis  of	thistheory?	  Surely  not,	as  that  would	 render	 the   rightconferred  by section 417 illusory.  Thus, the	doctrine  of"compelling  reasons"  would appear to have use	 only  as  aguide  to  the appellate court in determining  questions  offact.  It has no independent value as bearing on its  powersunder section 417.  If that is the true position, it followson  the	 principles  laid  down	 in  Sheo  Swarup  v.  King-Emperor(1)  and	 Nur Mohammad v. Emperor(2)  and  in  PritamSingh v. The State(3) that this Court cannot interfere	withthe  orders  passed under section 417 merely on	 the  groundthat the findings of fact were not justified, having  regardto the doctrine of "compelling reasons".In my opinion, this appeal ought to be dismissed.			   ORDER. BY  THE  COURT.-In  accordance with  the  Judgment  of	 themajority  this	Appeal	is  allowed.   The  conviction	 andsentence are set aside and the Appellant is acquitted.(1) [1934] L.R. 61 I.A.398.   (2) A.I.R. 1945 P.C. 151.(3) [1950] S.C.R. 453.1315