PETITIONER:PREM NATH KAUL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF JAMMU & KASHMIRDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/03/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  749		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 270 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC1737	 (11) RF	    1972 SC1738	 (16) F	    1973 SC 231	 (15) R	    1976 SC1031	 (11) RF	    1990 SC2072	 (44)ACT:       Landed	Estate,	  Abolition   of-Validity   of	 enactment-       Legislative  Competency	of Yuvaraj  Karan  Singh-Jammu	and       Kashmir Big Landed Estate Abolition Act, XVII of 2007.HEADNOTE:This appeal challenged the validity of the Jammu and KashmirBig  Landed  Estate Abolition Act, XVII Of  2007  which	 wasenacted	 by  Yuvaraj  Karan Singh on October  17,  1950,  inexercise  of the powers vested in him by S. 5 of  the  Jammuand Kashmir Constitution Act 14 of 1996 (1930) and the finalproclamation issued by Maharaja Hari Singh on June 20, 1949,by  which  he entrusted all his powers and function  to	 theYuvaraj.  The object of the Act was to improve	agriculturalproduction by abolishing big landed estates and transferringland  to  the actual tillers of the soil.  The suit  out  ofwhich the present appeal arises was brought by the appellantin a representative capacity for a declaration that the	 Actwas  void,  inoperative	 and ultra vires  and  that  he	 wasentitled  to retain peaceful possession of his lands.	Boththe  trial  Court  as also the High Court  in  appeal  foundagainst	 him and dismissed the suit.  Hence this  appeal  byspecial leave.The validity of the Act was challenged mainly on the  groundthat Yuvaraj Karan Singh had no authority to promulgate	 theAct.   It  was contended that (i) when Maharaja	 Hari  Singhconveyed  his powers to the Yuvaraj by his  proclamation  ofJune  20, 1949, he was himself a constitutional monarch	 andcould  convey  no higher powers, (2) the  said	proclamationcould  not  confer  on	the  Yuvaraj  the  powers  specifiedtherein,  (3) the powers of the Yuvaraj	 were  substantiallylimited by his own proclamation issued on November 25, 1949,by  which  he  sought to make applicable to  his  State	 theConstitution  of India, that was soon to be adopted  by	 itsConstituent Assembly, in so far as it was applicable, (4) asa  result of the application of certain specified  Articles,including Art. 370 of the Constitution of India to the Stateof  Jammu  Kashmir,  the  Yuvaraj  became  a  constitutionalmonarch without any legislative authority or powers and	 (5)the decision of the Constituent Assembly of the State not topay  compensation was invalid since the Assembly itself	 wasnot properly constituted.Held,  that  Yuvaraj Karan Singh, when lie  promulgated	 theAct,  had  the power to do so and its  validity	 was  beyondquestion.271It  was	 indisputable  that  prior to  the  passing  of	 theIndependence  Act,  1947,  Maharaja  Hari  Singh  like	 hispredecessors, was an absolute monarch so far as the internaladministration of his State was concerned.  Section 3 Of theRegulation 1 of 1991 (1934) issued by the Maharaja not	onlypreserved all his preexisting powers but also provided	thathis  inherent right to make any regulation, proclamation  orordinance would remain unaffected.  The Constitution Act  14of  1996  (1939)  promulgated  by  him	did  not  alter	 theposition.   Sections 4 and 5 of that Act preserved  all	 thepowers	that he had under s. 3 of the Regulation 1  of	1991and S. 72 preserved his inherent powers so that he  remainedthe same absolute monarch as he was before.With the lapse of British paramountcy on the passing of	 theIndependence  Act,  1947, the Maharaja continued to  be	 thesame  absolute monarch, subject to the agreements  saved  bythe  proviso  to  S.  7	 Of the Act,  and  in  the  eyes  ofinternational  law could conceivably claim the status of  anindependent sovereign.It  was unreasonable to suggest that the provisions  of	 theInstrument  of Accession signed by the Maharaja	 on  October25,  1947,  affected  his  sovereignty, in  view  of  cl.  6thereof,  which expressly recognised its continuance in	 andover his State.There  was no substance in the argument that as a result  ofhis proclamation issued on March 5, 1948, which replaced theemergency  administration  by a popular	 interim  Governmentheaded by Sheik Mohammad Abdullah and constituted a  Councilof Ministers who were to function as a cabinet, the Maharajabecame	a constitutional monarch.  The cabinet had still  tofunction under the Constitution Act 14 of 1996 (1939)  underthe overriding powers of the Maharaja.When  the Maharaja- on June 20, 1949, therefore, issued	 theproclamation  authorising  the Yuvaraj to exercise  all	 hispowers,	 although  for	a temporary period,  it	 placed	 theYuvaraj	 in  the  same	position  as  his  father  till	 theproclamation  was  revoked.   The Maharaja  was	 himself  anabsolute  monarch and there could be no question as  to	 hispower of delegation.In  Re.	 Delhi Laws Act, 1912, [1951] S.C.R.  747,  referredto.The proclamation issued by the Yuvaraj on November 25, 1949,did  not vary the constitutional position as it stood  afterthe execution of the Instrument of Accession by the Maharajanor  could it in any way affect the authority  conferred  onthe Yuvaraj by his father.The  contention	 that the application of  certain  specifiedArticles  of  the Indian Constitution to the  State  by	 theConstitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) Order (C. O.10)  issued by the President on January 26,  1950,  affectedthe sovereign powers of the Yuvaraj was not correct.Neither	 the scheme of Art. 370 nor the explanation  to	 cl.(1) of that Article Contemplated that the Maharaja was to bea  constitutional ruler.  The temporary provisions  of	thatArticle were272based  on  the	assumption that	 the  ultimate	relationshipbetween India and the State should be finally determined  bythe  Constituent  Assembly of the State	 itself.   So,	thatArticle	 could not, either expressly or by  implication,  beintended  to  limit the plenary legislative  powers  of	 theMaharaja.   Till  the  Constituent Assembly  of	 the  State,therefore,  made its decision, the Instrument  of  Accessionmust hold the field.The  initial formal application of Art. 385, which was	sub-sequently  deleted from the list of Articles applied to	 theState,	could  not  justify  the  conclusion  that  it	 hadadversely affected the legislative powers of the Yuvaraj.There  was no substance in the contention that the  decisionof  the	 Constituent Assembly not to  pay  compensation	 wasinvalid	 as the Assembly itself was not properly  called  orconstituted.   There  could be doubt that  the	Yuvaraj	 wasperfectly  competent to issue the proclamation	dated  April20,  1951  in variation of the Maharaja's, under  which	 theAssembly was ultimately constituted, and so the Assembly wasproperly convened.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 152 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch 25, 1953, of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court in CivilFirst Appeal No. 4 of 2009.N.C. Chatterjee, Gopi Nath Kunzru and Naunit Lal, for theappellants.H.N.  Sanyal,  Additional  Solicitor  General  of  India,Jaswant	 Singh, Advocate General for the State of Jammu	 andKashmir, R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1959.  March 2. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal by special leave arises	froma  suit filed by the appellant in a representative  capacity(Civil	Suit  No. 4 of 2008) against the State	of  Jammu  &Kashmir	 praying for a declaration that the Jammu &  KashmirBig  Landed Estate Abolition Act, XVII of 2007	(hereinaftercalled	the  Act) is void, inoperative and  ultra  vires  ofYuvaraj	 Karan	Singh  who  enacted it	and  for  a  furtherdeclaration  that the appellant was entitled to	 retain	 thepeaceful possession of his lands.273It  appears  that  the validity of  the	 Act  was  similarlychallenged by Maghar Singh by his suit filed on the OriginalSide of the High Court of Jammu & Kashmir (Civil Suit No. 59of 2007); and Mr. Justice Kilam who had heard the said	suithad  rejected the plaintiff's contentions and held that	 theAct was valid.When the appellant' suit came for trial before the  DistrictCourt  it was conceded on his behalf that the points  raisedby  him against the validity of the Act had been decided  byMr.  Justice Kilam and that, in view of the  said  decision,the  appellant could not usefully urge anything more  beforethe  District  Court.  The learned District  Judge  who	 wasbound by the decision of Mr. Justice Kilam applied it to thesuit before him and held that the Act was valid and that theappellant  was not entitled to the two declarations  claimedby him.	 In the result the appellant's suit was dismissed.Against this decree the appellant preferred an appeal in theHigh Court of Jammu & Kashmir (Civil Appeal No. 4 of  2009).Maghar	Singh whose suit had been dismissed by	Mr.  JusticeKilam  had also preferred an appeal (No. 29 of 2008)  beforethe  High Court.  The two appeals were heard together  by  a-Division  Bench of the High Court which held that  the	 Actwas  valid and that the appellants were not entitled to	 anydeclaration   claimed  by  them.   Both	 the  appeals	wereaccordingly dismissed.Against	 the decree passed by the High Court dismissing	 hisappeal the appellant applied to the High Court for leave  toappeal	to this Court.	The said application  was,  however,dismissed.    Thereupon	 the  appellant	 applied  for,	 andobtained, special leave to appeal to this Court.In  dealing with this appeal it is necessary to	 narrate  insome  detail the events which took place in Kashmir and	 theconstitutional	changes	 which	followed them  in  order  toappreciate fully the background of the impugned legislation.A  clear  understanding of this background will help  us  todeal  with the appellant's case in its	proper	perspective.In 1925 Maharaja35274Hari  Singh succeeded Maharaja Pratap Singh as the Ruler  ofKashmir.  It appears that for some time prior to 1934  therewas  public  agitation in Kashmir for the  establishment  ofresponsible government.	 Presumably as a sequel to the	saidagitation  Maharaja Hari Singh issued Regulation 1  of	1991(1934).	 The -Regulation began with the statement of  policythat  it  was  the declared intention  of  the	Maharaja  toprovide for the association of his subjects in the matter oflegislation and the administration of' the State and that itwas  in pursuance of the said intention that the  Regulationwas  being  promulgated.  This Regulation  consisted  of  46sections  which	 dealt with the legislative,  executive	 andjudicial  powers  of the Maharaja himself, referred  to	 thesubjects which should be reserved from the operation of	 theRegulation,  made  provision  for the  constitution  of	 theLegislature of the State, conferred authority on the Councilto  make rules for specified purposes and referred to  otherrelevant  and material topics.	It is relevant to  refer  toonly  two sections of this Regulation.	Section	 3  providesthat  all  powers  legislative, executive  and	judicial  inrelation to the State and its government are hereby declaredto  be, and to have been always, inherent in  and  possessedand retained by His Highness the Maharaja of Jammu & Kashmirand  nothing contained in the Regulation shall affect or  bedeemed	to  have affected the right and prerogative  of	 HisHighness  to  make and pass regulations,  proclamations	 andordinances by virtue of his inherent power.  Section 30 laysdown that Do measure shall be deemed to have been passed  bythe Praja Sabha until and unless His Highness has  signifiedhis  assent  thereto.	The  Regulation	 leaves	 it  to	 theabsolute  discretion  of His Highness whether to  assent  tosuch a measure or not.Five  years  later  the Maharaja  promulgated  the  Jammu  &Kashmir	 Constitution  Act  14 of  1996	 (1939).   From	 thepreamble  to this Constitution it appears that,	 before	 itspromulgation,  the  Maharaja had issued	 a  proclamation  onFebruary  11, -1939, in which he had announced his  decisionas to the further steps to275be taken to enable his subjects to make orderly progress  inthe direction of attaining the ideal of active	co-operationbetween	 the executive and the Legislature of the  State  inministering  to	 the maximum happiness of  the	people.	  Inaccordance  with  this desire the text of  the	Constitutioncontained in Regulation 1 of 1991 was thoroughly  overhauledand an attempt was made to bring the amended text into	linewith  that of similar Constitutions of its type.  This	Con-stitution  is  divided	into  six  parts  and  includes	  78sections.   Part 1 is introductory.  Part 2 deals  with	 theexecutive;  Part  3 with the Legislature; Part	4  with	 theJudicature;  Part 5 contains miscellaneous  provisions;	 andPart   6  provides  for	 repeal	 and  saving  and   includestransitional  provisions.   It is significant that s.  5  ofthis  Act, like s. 3 of the earlier  Regulation,  recognisesand preserves all the inherent powers of His Highness, whiles.  4 provides that the State was to be governed by  and  inthe  name  of His Highness, and all  rights,  authority	 andjurisdiction  which  appertain	or  are	 incidental  to	 thegovernment  of	the State are exercisable  by  His  Highnessexcept	in so far as may be otherwise provided by  or  underthe  Act  or as may be otherwise directed by  His  Highness.The other provisions of the Act are all subject to the over-riding	powers of His Highness specifically preserved by  s.5.  As	we  will  point	 out  later  on,  in  substance	 theConstitutional powers of the Maharaja under the present	 Actwere exactly the same as those under the earlier Act.While the State of Jammu & Kashmir was being governed by theMaharaja and the second Constitution as amended from time totime  was  in operation, political events were	moving	veryfast  in  India and they culminated in the  passing  of	 theIndian	Independence Act, 1947.	 Under s. 7 (1) (b) of	thisAct  the  suzerainty of His Majesty over the  Indian  Stateslapsed	and  with it lapsed all treaties and  agreements  inforce  at  the date of the passing of the  Act	between	 HisMajesty and the Rulers of the Indian States, all obligationsof  His Majesty existing at that date towards Indian  Statesor the Rulers thereof, and all powers,276rights, authority or jurisdiction exercisable by His Majestyat  that date in or in relation to Indian States by  treaty,grant,	usage, sufferance or otherwise.	 The proviso to	 thesaid  section,	however,  prescribed  that,  notwithstandinganything  in para. (b), effect shall, as nearly as  may	 be,continue to be given to the provisions of any such agreementas   therein  referred	to  in	relation  to  the   subjectsenumerated  in the proviso or other like matters  until	 theprovisions  in	question are denounced by the Ruler  of	 theIndian State on the one hand or by the Dominion or  Provinceconcerned on the other hand, or are superseded by subsequentagreements.  Thus, with the lapse of British paramountcy theState of Jammu & Kashmir, like the other Indian States,	 wastheoretically free from the limitations imposed by the	saidparamountcy  subject to the provisions of the  proviso	justmentioned.On  October  22,  1947,	 the  tribal  raiders  invaded	 theterritory  of  the  State; and	this  invasion	presented  aproblem of unprecedented gravity before the Maharaja.	Withthe progress of the invading raiders the safety of the Statewas  itself in grave jeopardy and it appeared that,  if	 themarch  of the invaders was not successfully  resisted,	theywould soon knock at the doors of Srinagar itself.  This	 actof  aggression	set in motion a chain  of  political  eventswhich	ultimately   changed  the  history   and   politicalconstitution of Kashmir with unexpected speed.On  October 25, 1947, the Maharaja signed an  Instrument  ofAccession  with India which had then become  an	 IndependentDominion.   By	the  First  Clause  of	the  Instrument	 theMaharaja  declared  that he had acceded to the	Dominion  ofIndia  with the intent that the Governor-General  of  India,the  Dominion, Legislature, the Federal Court and any  otherDominion  Authority  established  for  the  purpose  of	 theDominion  shall, by virtue of the Instrument  of  Accession,subject	 always	 to the terms thereof and for  the  purposesonly  of the Dominion, exercise in relation to the State  ofJammu  & Kashmir such functions as may be vested in them  byor  under the Government of India Act, 1935, as in force  inthe Dominion of India on August 15, 1947.			    277We may usefully refer to some other relevant clauses of thisInstrument.   By el. 3 the Maharaja agreed that the  mattersspecified  in  the Schedule attached to	 the  Instrument  ofAccession  were	 the  matters  with  respect  to  which	 theDominion Legislature may make laws for this State.  Clause 5provides  that	the Instrument shall not be  varied  by	 anyamendment  of the Government of India Act, 1935, or  of	 theIndian	Independence  Act, 1947, unless	 such  amendment  isaccepted  by the Maharaja by an Instrument supplementary  tothe  original  Instrument  of Accession.  By el.  7  it	 wasagreed that the Maharaja would not be deemed to be committedto  the acceptance of any future Constitution of  India	 norwould  his discretion be fettered to enter  into  agreementswith   the  Government	of  India  under  any  such   futureConstitution.	Clause	8 is very important.  It  says	thatnothing	 in  the Instrument affects the continuance  of	 theMaharaja's  sovereignty in and over his State, or,  save  asprovided  by  or under the Instrument, the exercise  of	 anypowers, authority and rights then enjoyed by him as Ruler ofthe  State, or the validity of any law then in force in	 theState.	 The Schedule attached to the Instrument  refers  tofour  topics, defence, external affairs, communications	 andancillary,  and under these topics twenty matters have	beenserially  enumerated  as  those	 in  respect  of  which	 theDominion  Legislature  had the power to make  laws  for	 theState.	 Thus, by the Instrument of Accession, the  Maharajatook  the very important step of recognising the  fact	thathis State was a part of the Dominion of India.Meanwhile,, the invasion of the State had created tremendouspopular fervour and patriotic feelings in resisting the	 actof aggression and this popular feeling inevitably tended  toexercise   pressure   on  the	Maharaja   for	 introducingresponsible  and  popular  government  in  the	State.	 TheMaharaja  tried	 to pacify the popular demand by  issuing  aproclamation  on  March 5, 1948.  By  this  proclamation  hestated that in accordance with the traditions of his dynastyhe had from time to time provided for increasing associationof his people with the administration of the State with	 theobject of278realising  the	goal of full responsible  government  at  asearly  a  date as possible, and he added that he  had  notedwith  gratification and pride the progress made so  far	 andthe  legitimate	 desire	 of his	 people	 for  the  immediateestablishment  of a fully democratic constitution  based  onadult franchise with a hereditary  Ruler from his dynasty asthe  constitutional head of an executive responsible to	 theLegislature.   It appears that before this proclamation	 wasissued	the Maharaja had already appointed  Sheikh  MohammedAbdullah  who was then the popular leader of the  people  asthe  head  of  the emergency administration.   By  the	pro-clamation the Maharaja replaced the emergency administrationby a popular interim government and provided for its powers,duties	and  functions	pending the  formation	of  a  fullydemocratic  constitution.   Clause  1  of  the	proclamationprovides for the composition of the Ministry, whereas by cl.2  the	Prime Minister and other ministers are	required  tofunction  as  a cabinet and act on the	principle  of  jointresponsibility.	 A Dewan appointed by the Maharaja is  to-bea member of the Cabinet.  Clause 4 provides that the Councilof Ministers shall take appropriate steps, as soon as resto-ration of normal conditions has been completed, to convene aNational Assembly based on adult franchise having due regardto  the	 principle that the number of  representatives	fromeach   voting  area  should,  as  far  as  practicable,	  beproportionate to the population of that area.  Clause 5 thenlays down that the Constitution to be framed by the NationalAssembly   shall   provide  adequate  safeguards   for	 theminorities  and contain appropriate provisions	guaranteeingfreedom	 of  conscience, freedom of speech  and	 freedom  ofassembly.  Clause 6 states that when the work of framing theConstitution  is  completed  by the  National  Assembly	 theConstitution  would  be	 submitted through  the	 Council  ofMinisters   to	the  Maharaja  for  his	  acceptance.	 Theproclamation  ended  with the expression of  hope  that	 theformation   of	 a  popular  interim  government   and	 theinauguration  in  the  near future  of	a  fully  democraticConstitution would ensure the contentment, happiness and themoral and material advancement270of the people of the State. Through under this	proclamationa popular interim government was set up, the  constitutionalposition   still  was  that  the  popular   government	 hadtheoretically  to function under the Constitution  of  1939.It  appears  that  before the popular  government  was	thusinstalled   in	 office	 the  Maharaja	had   deputed	fourrepresentatives	 of the State to represent the State in	 theConstituent  Assembly  called in the Dominion  of  India  toframe the Constitution of India.After  the popular interim government began to function	 thepolitical  events  in the State gathered  momentum  and	 thepublic	began  to clamour for the framing  of  a  democraticConstitution  at an early date.	 When the atmosphere in	 theState  was  thus surcharged, the Maharaja issued  his  finalproclamation  on  June 20, 1949, by which  he  entrusted  toYuvaraj Karan Singh Bahadur all his powers and functions  inregard to the government of the State because he had decidedfor  reasons  of health to leave the State for	a  temporaryperiod.	 " Now therefore I hereby direct and declare ", saysthe  proclamation,  "  all  powers  and	 functions   whetherlegislative, executive or judicial which are exercisable  byme in relation to the State and its government including  inparticular  my	right  and prerogative of  making  laws,  ofissuing proclamations, orders and ordinances, or  remitting,commuting or reducing sentences and of pardoning  offenders,shall,	during the period of my absence from the  State,  beexercisable by Yuvaraj Karan Singh Bahadur ". As  subsequentevents	show this was the last official act of the  Maharajabefore he left the State.After  Yuvaraj	Karan Singh took the  Maharaja's  place	 andbegan  to function under the powers assigned to him  by	 thesaid proclamation, the interim popular government  installedearlier	 was functioning as before.  On November  25,  1949,Yuvaraj	 Karan	Singh  issued a	 proclamation  by  which  hedeclared and directed that the Constitution of India shortlyto be adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India shall, inso far as it is applicable to the State of Jammu &  Kashmir,govern the constitutional relationship between280the  State and the contemplated Union of India and shall  beenforced  in the State by him, his heirs and  successors  inaccordance  with  the  tenor of	 its  provisions.   He	alsodeclared  that	the  provisions of  the	 said	Constitutionshall,	as from the date of its commencement, supersede	 andabrogate  all other constitutional  provisions	inconsistenttherewith  which  were	then in force  in  the	State.	 Thepreamble to this proclamation shows that it was based on theconviction  that  the best interests of the  State  requiredthat the constitutional relationship established between theState  and the Dominion of India should be continued as	 be-tween the State and the contemplated Union of India; and  itrefers	to the fact that the Constituent Assembly  of  Indiawhich had framed the Constitution of India included the dulyappointed  representatives  of the State and that  the	saidConstitution  provided	a  suitable basis  to  continue	 theconstitutional	relationship  between  the  State  and	 thecontemplated  Union  of	 India.	 On January  26,  1950,	 theConstitution of India came into force.This   proclamation   was  followed  by	  the	Constitution(Application  to  Jammu & Kashmir) Order, 1950	(C.  O.	 10)which  was issued on January 26, 1950, by the  President  inconsultation  with the Government of Jammu & Kashmir and  inexercise  of the powers conferred by cl. (1) of Art. 370  ofthe  Constitution.  It came into force at once.	 Clause	 (2)of this order provides that for the purposes of sub-cl.	 (i)of  Art. 370 of the Constitution, the matters  specified  inthe  First  Schedule  to the  Order  correspond	 to  mattersspecified  in  the  Instrument of  Accession  governing	 theaccession of the State of Jammu & Kashmir to the Dominion ofIndia  as  the	matters with regard to	which  the  DominionLegislature  may make laws for that State;  and	 accordinglythe power of Parliament to make laws for that State shall belimited to the matters specified in the said First Schedule.Clause	(3) provides that, in addition to the provisions  ofArt.   1  and Art. 370 of the Constitution  the	 only  otherprovisions  of	the Constitution which shall  apply  to	 theState of Jammu & Kashmir shall be those specified in the281Second	Schedule to the Order and shall so apply subject  tothe  exceptions	 and  modifications specified  in  the	saidSchedule.   The	 First Schedule to the	Order  specified  96items occurring in the Union List; while the Second Scheduleset out the Articles of the Constitution made applicable  tothe  State together with the exceptions	 and  modifications.Later  on  we will have occasion to refer to some  of  theseArticles on which the appellant has relied.It  appears that, after the interim popular Government	tookoffice, the Revenue Minister made a statement of policy at ameeting of the special staff of revenue officers held in theGovernor's  office on August 13, 1950.	The Minister  statedthat  whatever the difficulties, the Cabinet was  determinedto  go ahead and transfer the proprietorship of the land  tothe   tiller.	The  main  idea	 underlying   the   proposedagricultural  reform was that a land-lord shall not  possessmore  than 20 acres of agricultural land.  In  addition,  hewould  be  allowed  8 kanals for his use and  Sagzar  and  4kanals	for his second house if in existence, and 10  kanalsfor  Bedzar  or	 Safedzar.   It	 was  contemplated  that   acommittee would be appointed to settle the details and othermatters incidental to the said agricultural plan.It  was presumably in pursuance of this plan adopted by	 theinterim	 Cabinet  that the Act was  promulgated	 by  YuvarajKaran  Singh on October 17, 1950.  The preamble to  the	 Actshows that it was promulgated because no lasting improvementin  agricultural  production  and  efficiency  was  possiblewithout the removal of the intermediaries between the tillerof  the	 soil  and  the State, and so  for  the	 purpose  ofimproving  agricultural	 production,  it  was  expedient  toprovide	 for  the abolition of such proprietors as  own	 biglanded estates and to transfer the land held by them to	 theactual	tiller.	 The Yuvaraj enacted the law in exercise  ofthe -powers vested in him under s. of the.  Constitution Actof  1996 and the'proclamation issued by Maharaja Hari  Singhon  June  20,  1949.  The Act consists of  47  sections	 andpurports to, carry out its 36282policy of improving the agricultural production of the Stateby  providing for the extinction of the proprietors'  titlesand the transfer of the lands to the tillers, and by settingup  a self-contained machinery for the carry ing out of	 thescheme	of  the	 Act and for settlement	 of  all  incidentaldisputes arising thereunder.For the purpose of this appeal, however, it is necessary  torefer  to a few relevant sections which deal with the  broadfeatures  of the extinction of the proprietors'	 rights	 andthe transfer of lands to the tillers.  S. 2 of the Act interalia  defines  land,  proprietor  and  tiller,	while  s.  3excludes  certain specified lands from the operation of	 theAct.   Section 4, sub-s. (1) provides for the extinction  ofthe  right  of ownership in certain lands and it  lays	downthat not withstanding anything contained in any law for	 thetime  being  in	 force, the right of  ownership	 held  by  aproprietor  in land other than the land mentioned in  sub-s.(2)  shall,  subject  to the other provisions  of  the	Act,extinguish  and cease to vest in him from the date  the	 Actcomes into force.  Sub-section (2) of s. 4 enumerates  landswhich  are excluded from the operation of sub-s. (1).	Theyare  (a)  units of land not exceeding 182  kanals  includingresidential  sites, Bedzars and Safedzars,  (b)	 Kahikrishmiareas,	Araks, Kaps and unculturable wastes including  thoseused  for  raising fuel or fodder, and	(c)  orchards.	 Theproviso to sub-s. (2) gives government the power to  disposeof  lands  mentioned in cl. (b) in such a manner as  may  berecommended by the committee to be set up for that  purpose.Section 26 of the Act deals with the question of payment  tothe  proprietors.  It provides that there shall,  until	 theConstituent  Assembly of the State settles the	question  ofcompensation,  with respect to the land	 expropriated  underthis Act, be paid by the government to every proprietor	 whohas been expropriated, an annuity in the manner indicated inthe section.  In other words, subject to the final  decisionof the Constituent Assembly, s. 26 contemplates the  paymentof annuity to the expropriated proprietors according to	 thescale  prescribed  in  the section.  With the  rest  of	 thesections we are not concerned in the present appeal.283After  the  Act	 was  enacted by the  yuvaraj  he  issued  aproclamation on April 20, 1951, directing that a ConstituentAssembly consisting of representatives of the people electedon  the	 basis	of  adult  franchise  shall  be	 constitutedforthwith for the purpose of framing a Constitution for	 theState  of  Jammu & Kashmir.  The proclamation sets  out	 themanner	in  which members of the said  Constituent  Assemblywould be elected and makes provisions for the holding of thesaid elections.	 It also authorised the Constituent Assemblyto  frame its own agenda and make rules for  regulating	 itsprocedure and the conduct of its business.  The preamble  tothis proclamation shows that the Yuvaraj was satisfied	thatit  was the general desire of the people that a	 ConstituentAssembly  should  be brought into being for the	 purpose  offraming	 a  Constitution  for  the State  and  that  it	 wascommonly felt that the convening of the said Assembly  couldno  longer be delayed without detriment to the future  well-being of the State.  The Yuvaraj also felt no doubt that theproclamation  issued  by the Maharaja on March 5,  1948,  inregard to the convening of the national assembly as per cls.4  to 6 no longer met the requirements of the  situation  inthe  State.   Thus this proclamation was  intended  to	meetexpeditiously  the  popular  demand for	 the  framing  of  ademocratic  constitution ; and it indicates that a  decisivestage  bad  been  reached in the political  history  of	 theState.In accordance with this proclamation a Constituent  Assemblywas  elected and it framed the Constitution for	 the  State.By  the Constitution thus framed the hereditary rule of	 theState  was  abolished,	and a provision	 was  made  for	 theelection  of  a	 Sadar-i-Riyasat to be at the  head  of	 theState.	On November 13, 1952, the Yuvaraj was elected to theoffice	of  the Sadar-i-Riyasat and with  his  election	 thedynastic rule of Maharaja Hari Singh came to an end.On November 15, 1952, the Constitution (Application to Jammu&  Kashmir)  Second  Amendment Order, 1952 (C.	O.  43)	 wasissued;	 and  it came into force on November 17,  1952.	  Bythis Order the earlier Order of 1950 was amended as a resultof which all references284in  the said Order to the Rajpramukh shall be  construed  asreferences  to	the  Sadar-i-Riyasat  of  Jammu	 &  Kashmir.Similarly  in  the Second Schedule to the  said	 Order	someamendments were made.  On the ,same day a Declaration (C. O.44)  was made by the President under Art. 370, sub-art.	 (3)of  the Constitution that from November 17, 1952,  the	saidArt.  370 shall be operative with the modification that	 forthe explanation in el. (1) thereof the new explanation shallbe substituted.	 The effect of this new explanation was thatthe  government of the State meant the person for  the	timebeing recognised by the President, on the recommendation  ofthe  Legislative  Assembly  of the State,  as  the  Sadar-i-Riyasat	 of  Jammu  & Kashmir acting on the  advice  of	 theCouncil	 of  Ministers of the State for the  time  being  inforce.	 On  November  18, 1952,  Yuvaraj  Karan  Singh	 wasrecognised as the Sadar-i-Riyasat of Jammu & Kashmir.On May 14, 1954, another Constitution (Application to  Jammu& Kashmir) Order (C. O. 48) was made by the President  whichinter  alia  applied  Art. 31A and 31B	to  the	 State	withcertain	 modifications	and included the Act  in  the  NinthSchedule  of  the Constitution.	 The last  two	Orders	wereissued	subsequent to the enactment of the Act and  so	theywould  have no bearing on the decision of the points  raisedbefore us.  We have briefly referred to them for the sake ofcompleting the narrative of the material events.The  validity of the Act is impeached mainly on	 the  groundthat Yuvaraj Karan Singh had no authority to promulgate	 thesaid  Act.  It is this argument which has been urged  beforeus by Mr. Chatterjee in different and alternative forms thatneeds  careful	examination.  The first attack	against	 thecompetence of Yuvaraj Karan Singh proceeds on the assumptionthat  at  the  time when Maharaja Hari	Singh  conveyed	 hispowers	to Yuvaraj Karan Singh by his proclamation  of	June20,  1949,  he	was himself no more  than  a  constitutionalmonarch	 and as such he could convey to Yuvaraj Karan  Singhno  higher  powers.  Let us first deal with  this  argument.Prior  to  the passing of the Independence  Act,  1947,	 thesovereignty of Maharaja			    285Hari Singh over the State of Jammu & Kashmir was subject  tosuch  limitations as were constitutionally imposed on it  bythe paramountcy of the British Crown and by the treaties andagreements entered into between the Rulers of the State	 andthe  British Government.  It cannot be disputed that so	 faras  the internal administration and governance of the  Statewere  concerned Maharaja Hari Singh, like his  predecessors,was  an absolute monarch ; and that all powers	legislative,executive  and	judicial in relation to his  State  and	 itsgovernance inherently vested in him.  This position has beenemphatically  brought  out by s. 3 of Regulation 1  of	1991(1934).	 Though by this Regulation Maharaja Hari Singh	gaveeffect	to his intention to provide for the  association  ofhis subjects in the matter of legislation and administrationof  the State, by s. 3 he fully preserved in himself all  ofhis pre-existing legislative, executive and judicial powers.Section	 3 not only preserves the said powers but  expresslyprovides  that	nothing contained in  the  Regulation  shallaffect	or  be	deemed	to  have  affected  the	 right	 andprerogative  of His Highness to make and  pass	regulations,proclamations  and  ordinances	by virtue  of  his  inherentauthority.  It is thus clear that the rest of the provisionsof  the	 Regulation were subject to  the  overriding  powerspreserved by His Highness.It is, however, urged that this constitutional position	 wassubstantially altered by the subsequent Constitution Act  of1996  (14 of 1996).  We are unable to accept this  argument.Sections  4 and 5 of this Act in terms continue to  preserveall  the powers legislative, executive and judicial as	wellas the right and prerogative of His Highness just as much ass.  3 of Regulation 1 of 1991.	It is significant  that	 theprovisions  of Pt.  II which deals with the executive,	likethose  of Pt.  III which deals with the	 Legislature,  beginwith  the  express provision that they are  subject  to	 theprovisions  of	ss.  4 and 5. In  other	 words,	 the  powersconferred on the executive and the Legislature, limited	 andqualified  as  they are, are made expressly subject  to	 theoverriding powers of His Highness,286Besides,  there	 are specific provisions in  the  Act  whichclearly	 emphasise  the	 preservation of  the  said  powers.Section 24 which enumerates the reserved matters over  whichthe  Praja Sabha had no authority to legis late provides  bycl.  (i) that the provisions of the Act and the	 rules	madethereunder  and	 their repeal or   modifications  constitutereserved  matters.  Besides cl.(j) confers on  His  Highnessthe authority to add other specified matters to the list  ofreserved  matters from time to time.  These provisions	makeit  clear  that	 his  Highness could  enlarge  the  list  ofreserved  matters thereby limiting the jurisdiction  of	 thePraja Sabha.  Similarly the legislative procedure prescribedby s. 31, sub-ss. (2) and (3) clearly shows that it is	onlysuch  bills as received the assent of His Highness that	 be-came law, His Highness's power to assent or not to assent tothe bills submitted to him being absolutely unfettered.	 Theordinances  issued  by His Highness under s.  38  cannot  berepealed or altered by the Praja Sabha by virtue of s. 39  ;and lastly s. 72 expressly preserves the inherent power	 andprerogative  of	 His Highness.	Thus there can be  no  doubtthat  though  this Act marked the second step taken  by	 HisHighness  in actively associating his subjects with the	 ad-ministration  of  the State, it did not	 constitute  even  apartial surrender by His Highness of his sovereign rights infavour	of the Praja Sabha.  So far as the said	 powers	 areconcerned,  the	 constitutional position under this  Act  issubstantially the same as under the earlier Act.It  is	contended  by Mr. Chatterjee  that  the	 prerogativerights	which  are  preserved by ss. 5 and 72  of  this	 Actrepresent only such rights as had not been entrusted to	 thePraja Sabha and in support of this contention he referred usto  the observation made by Dicey that "  the  discretionaryauthority  of the Crown originates generally not in  Act  ofParliament,  but in the prerogatives term which	 has  causedmore  perplexity  to  students	than  any  other  expressionreferring  to the constitution.	 The prerogative appears  tobe both historically and as a matter of actual fact  nothingelse than the residue of discretionary or arbitrary287authority,  which it any given time is legally left  in	 thehands  of  the Crown"(1).  This observation has	 been  citedwith approval by the House of Lords in the case of Attorney-General v. De Keyser's Royal Hotel Ltd. (2).  We do not	 seehow  this  statement  can    assist  us	 in  determining theconstitutional	status,	 and the extent of  the	 powers,  ofMaharaja  Hari	Singh in relation to the governance  of	 theState.	  The  said  discussion	 in  Dicey's  treatise	 hasreference to the special features of the history of  Englishconstitutional development; and it would naturally be of  norelevance in dealing with the effect of the Constitution  of1996 with which we are concerned.  As we have just indicatedthis Constitution emphatically brings out the fact that	 theMaharaja  was an absolute monarch and in him vested all	 thelegislative,  executive and judicial powers along  with	 theprerogative rights mentioned in ss. 5 and 72.Whilst	this  was  the	true  constitutional  position	 theIndependence   Act,   1947,  was  passed  by   the   BritishParliament;  and with the lapse of the	British	 paramountcythe   Rulers  of  Indian  States  were	released  from	 thelimitations  imposed  on  their	 sovereignty  by  the	saidparamountcy  of	 the British Crown and by  the	treaties  inforce  between the British Government and the  States;	thiswas,  however, subject to the proviso prescribed by s. 7  ofthe  Independence Act under which effect had to be given  tothe  provisions of the agreements specified in the  proviso,until  they  were denounced by the Rulers of the  States  orwere  superseded by subsequent agreements.  In	the  result,subject	 to  the agreements saved by the  proviso,  MaharajaHari Singh continued to be an absolute monarch of the State,and  in the eyes of international law he  might	 conceivablyhave  claimed  the  status of a	 sovereign  and	 independentState.	But it is urged that the sovereignty of the  Maharajwas   considerably  affected  by  the  provisions   of	 theInstrument of Accession which he signed on October 25, 1947.This argument is clearly untenable.  It is true that by	 cl.I of the(1)  Dicey on " Law of the Constitution ", 9th Ed., P. 424.(2)  [1920] A.C. 508, 526.288Instrument  of	Accession  His	Highness  conceded  to	 theauthorities  mentioned	in  the said  clause  the  right  toexercise  in relation to his State such functions as may  bevested	in  them by or under the Government of	India	Act,1935,  as in force in the said Dominion on August 15,  1947,but  this was subject to the other terms of the	  Instrumentof Accession itself; and el. 6 of the Instrument clearly andexpressly  recognised the continuance of the sovereignty  ofHis  Highness  in and over his State.  We  must,  therefore,reject the argument that the execution of the Instrument  ofAccession affected in any manner the legislative,  executiveand judicial powers in regard to the government of the Statewhich then vested in the Ruler of the State.There is one more argument which has been urged before us onthe  question of Maharaja Hari Singh's powers.	It  is	saidthat  when  Maharaja Hari Singh issued his  proclamation  onMarch  5, 1948, replacing the emergency administration by  apopular	  interim  government  headed  by  Sheikh   MohammadAbdullah and constituting a Council of Ministers who were tofunction  as  a Cabinet and act on the	principle  of  jointresponsibility, he virtually introduced a popular democraticgovernment  in the State, surrendered his sovereign  rights,and became a constitutional monarch.  There is no  substancein this argument.  The proclamation merely shows that, underpressure of public opinion and as a result of the  difficultand delicate problem raised by the tribal raid, the Maharajavery  wisely chose to entrust the actual  administration  ofthe  government to the charge of a popular Cabinet; but	 thedescription  of the Cabinet as a popular interim  governmentdid not make the said Cabinet a popular Cabinet in the	trueconstitutional	sense  of the expression.  The	Cabinet	 hadstill  to  function under ,the Constitution Act 14  of	1996(1939) and whatever policies it pursued, it had to act underthe  overriding	 powers of His Highness.  It is	 thus  clearthat until the Maharaja issued his proclamation on June	 20,1949, all his powers legislative, executive and judicial  aswell  as his right and prerogative vested in him as  before.That is why the argument that Maharaja,289Hari Singh had surrendered his sovereign powers in favour ofthe Praja Sabha and the popular interim government,  therebyaccepting  the status of a constitutional monarch cannot  beupheld.The  next point which calls for our decision is .  What	 wasthe effect of the proclamation issued by Maharaja Hari Singhin  favour  of Yuvaraj Karan Singh on June 20,	1949  ?	 Theterms of this proclamation have already been set out by	 us.There is no doubt that, during the temporary period that theMaharaja wanted to leave the State for reasons of health, heconferred  on  Yuvaraj	Karan  Singh  all  his	powers	 andfunctions  in regard to the government of the State.   Sincethe  Maharaja was himself an absolute monarch, there was  nofetter	or limitation on his power to appoint somebody	elseto  exercise  all  or  any of  his  powers.   There  was  noauthority or tribunal in the State which could question	 hisright  or  power to adopt such a course.  As  Chief  JusticeKania  has  observed  in Re: Delhi Laws Act, 1912  (1)	"  Alegislative body which is sovereign like an autocratic Rulerhas  power  to	do anything.  It may, like a  Ruler,  by  anindividual decision, direct that a certain person may be putto  death  or a certain property may be taken  over  by	 theState.	A body of such character may have power to  nominatesomeone	 who  can exercise all its powers and make  all	 itsdecisions.  This is possible to be done because there is  noauthority or tribunal which can question the right or  powerof  the	 authority to do so ". Similarly, Mahajan,  J.,	 hasobserved  in  the same case that " The	Parliament  being  alegal  omnipotent  despot, apart -from being  a	 legislaturesimpliciter,  it  can  in exercise of  its  sovereign  powerdelegate its legislative functions or even create new bodiesconferring  on	them power to make laws "; and	the  learnedJudge  added  that  "  whether it  exercises  its  power  ofdelegation  of legislative power in its capacity as  a	merelegislature  or in its capacity as an omnipotent despot,  itis  not	 possible to test it on the touchstone	of  judicialprecedent  or  judicial	 scrutiny as courts  of	 justice  inEngland cannot inquire into it ". In his judgment  MukherjeaJ., has also made similar(1)[1951] S.C.R. 747. 765. 766, 889, 969.37290observations  after quoting the words of Sir Edward	Cokein  regard  to	the " transcendent and	absolute  power	 andjurisdiction  of Parliament ". What is true of	the  BritishParliament  would be truer about an  absolute  and  despoticmonarch, the exercise of whose J.  paramount   power  as   asovereign  is  not subject to any  popular  and	 legislativecontrol.   If  that be the true position,  the	proclamationissued	by  Maharaja Hari Singh	 authorising  Yuvaraj  KaranSingh to exercise all his -powers would clothe him with	 allsuch  powers  and he would be in the same  position  as	 hisfather so long as the proclamation stood.Besides, it would be permissible to observe that though	 theproclamation purports to have been issued on the ground thatMaharaja  Hari Singh was leaving the State for	a  temporaryperiod	for reasons of health, it was clear even  then	thatthe  temporary	departure of the Maharaja really  meant	 hispermanent retirement from the State.  It was realised by himas  much  as  by his subjects that to face  the	 stress	 andstrain	caused by the unusual problems raised by the act  ofaggression  against  the  State, it was	 necessary  that  heshould	quit and young Yuvaraj Karan Singh should  take	 hisplace.	Thus considered the proclamation really amounted  tohis  abdication	 and installation by him  of  Yuvaraj  KaranSingh  as  the	Ruler of the State.   It  is,  however,	 notnecessary to consider any further this aspect of the  matterin  dealing  with  the authority  of  Yuvaraj  Karan  Singh,because,  as  we  have just held, Maharaja  Hari  Singh	 wascompetent to delegate his powers to Yuvaraj Karan Singh	 fora temporary period as his proclamation purported to do;	 andby  virtue  of	such delegation,  Yuvaraj  Karan  Singh	 wasclothed with all the authority which his father possessed asthe- Ruler of the State until the proclamation was  revoked.Therefore   the	  argument  that   Maharaja   Hari   Singh'sproclamation  issued  on June 20, 1949, did  not  confer  onYuvaraj Karan Singh the specified powers cannot be accepted.The  next  contention is that the powers  of  Yuvaraj  KaranSingh were substantially limited by the proclamation  issuedby  him on November 25, 1949.  We are not impressed even  bythis argument.	By this291proclamation   Yuvaraj	 Karan	Singh  purported   to	makeapplicable to his State the Constitution of India which	 wasshortly	 going to be adopted by the Constituent Assembly  ofIndia  in  so far as was applicable; in	 other	words,	thisproclamation  did not carry the constitutional position	 anyfurther	 than  where it stood after and as a result  of	 theexecution  of the  Instrument of Accession by  Maharaja HariSingh.	 It  is	 thus clear that the  proclamation  did	 notaffect	Yuvaraj	 Karan Singh's authority and powers  as	 theRuler  of the State which had been conferred on him  by	 theproclamation of his father issued in that behalf.Mr.  Chatterjee, however, has very seriously pressed  beforeus  his contention that, as a result of the  application  ofcertain specified articles of the Constitution to the  Stateof  Jammu  &  Kashmir, all  vestiges  of  sovereignty  whichYuvaraj Karan Singh could have claimed had vanished; and  inconsequence he had become merely a constitutional monarch ofthe  State  without  any legislative  authority	 or  powers.Indeed	it is this part of the case on which Mr.  Chatterjeeplaced considerable emphasis.  In this connection, it  wouldbe relevant to recall that by the Constitution Order 10,  inaddition to the provisions of Art.  1 and Art. 370,  certainother provisions of the Constitution were made applicable tothe State with exceptions and modifications as specified  inthe  Second Schedule.  Articles 245, 254 and 255 as well  asArt.  246 as modified from Pt.	XI of the Constitution	wereapplied to the State.  Similarly from Pt.  XIX Art. 366	 wasapplied,  and from Pt.	XXI Arts. 370 and 385 were  applied.In this connection it is also necessary to bear in mind thatPt.   VI which deals with the States in Pt.  A of the  FirstSchedule  has  not  been applied, nor  has  Pt.	  VII  whichconsisted  of Art. 238 been applied.  Art. 238 provides	 forthe application of provisions of Pt.  VI to States in Pt.  Bof the First Schedule.	Schedule Seven which consists of thethree  Legislative Lists has also not been applied.   It  isthus  clear  that though by the application of Art.   I	 theState  became  a  part of the territory of  India  and	con-stituted a State under Part B, the provisions of292Pt. VI and Pt.	VII did not apply to it nor did the Scheduleprescribing  the three Legislative Lists.  This fact  is  ofconsiderable importance and significance in dealing with theappellant's contention. Since Mr. Chatterjee has strongly relied on the applicationof Art. 370 of the Constitution to the State  in support  ofhis argument that the Yuvaraj bad ceased to hold the plenarylegislative   powers,  it  is  necessary  to   examine	 theprovisions  of this Article and their effect.  This  Articlewas  intended to make temporary provisions with	 respect  tothe State of Jammu & Kashmir.  It reads thus:"   Art.   370:	 (1)  Notwithstanding	anything   in	thisConstitution,-(a)the	provisions  of	article 238  shall  not	 apply	inrelation to the State of Jammu & Kashmir;(b)the power of Parliament to make laws for the said Stateshall be limited to-(i)those  matters  in the Union List and  the  Con-currentList  which,  in  consultation with the	 Government  of	 theState,	are  declared  by the  President  to  correspond  tomatters	 specified in the Instrument of Accession  governingthe  accession of the State to the Dominion of India as	 thematters	 with respect to which the Dominion Legislature	 maymake laws for that State; and(ii)such  other	 matters  in the said Lists  as,  with	theconcurrence  of the Government of the State,  the  Presidentmay by order specify.Explanation.-For   the	 purposes  of  this   article,	 theGovernment of the State means the person for the time  beingrecognised  by	the President as the Maharaja of  Jammu	 andKashmir acting on the advice of the Council of Ministers forthe  time being in office under the Maharaja's	Proclamationdated the fifth day of March, 1948;(c)the	provisions of article I and of this article  shallapply in relation to that State;(d)such of the other provisions of this Constitution shallapply  in relation to that State subject to such  exceptionsand modifications as the President may by order specify;293Provided  that	no such order which relates to	the  mattersspecified  in  the  Instrument of  Accession  of  the  Statereferred  to  in paragraph (i) of sub-clause  (b)  shall  beissued	except	in consultation with the Government  of	 theState:Provided further that no such order which relates to mattersother  than those referred to in the last preceding  provisoshall  be  issued  except  with	 the  concurrence  of	thatGovernment.(2)  If	 the  concurrence of the  Government  of  the  Statereferred  to in paragraph (ii) of sub-clause (b)  of  clause(1)  or	 in  the Second proviso to sub-clause  (d)  of	thatclause	be  given before the Constituent  Assembly  for	 thepurpose	 of  framing  the  Constitution	 of  the  State	  isconvened,  it shall be placed before such Assembly for	suchdecision as it may take thereon.(3)Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions ofthis  article,	the President may, by  public  notification,declare	 that  this article shall cease to be  operative  orshall	be   operative	only  with   such   exceptions	 andmodifications and from such date as he may specify:Provided that the recommendation of the Constituent Assemblyof  the State referred to in clause (2) shall  be  necessarybefore the President issues such a notification."Clause	(1)  (b) of this Article deals with the	 legislativepower  of the Parliament to make laws for the State; and  itprescribes  limitation in that behalf.	Under paragraph	 (1)of sub-cl. (b) of cl. (1) Parliament has power to make	lawsfor  the State in respect of matters in the Union  List	 andthe Concurrent List which the President in consultation withthe  Government	 of  the State	declares  to  correspond  tomatters specified in the Instrument of Accession; whereas inregard	to other matters in the said Lists  Parliament	may,under paragraph (ii), have power to legislate for the  Stateafter such other matters have been specified by his order bythe President with the concurrence of the Government of	 theState.	 It  is	 significant that paragraph  (i)  refers  toconsultation   with  the  Government  of  the  State   whileparagraph (ii) requires its concurrence,294Having	 thus  provided	 for  consultation  with,  and	 theconcurrence of, the Government of the State, the explanationshows  what  the  Government  of the  State  means  in	thiscontext.   It  means according to the  ,appellant,  not	 theMaharaja  acting by himself in his own discretion,  but	 theperson	who is recognised as the Maharaja by the  -Presidentacting	on  the advice of the Council of Ministers  for	 thetime  being in office.	It is on this explanation  that	 theappellant has placed considerable reliance.Sub-clauses  (c) and (d) of cl. (1) of the  Article  providerespectively  that  the	 provisions of Art.  I	and  of	 thepresent	 Article shall apply in relation to the	 State;	 andthat the other provisions of the Constitution shall apply inrelation  to  it  subject to  exceptions  and  modificationsspecified  by the Presidential order.  These provisions	 arelikewise  made subject to consultation with, or	 concurrenceof, the Government of the State respectively.Having provided for the legislative power of the  Parliamentand for the application of the Articles of the	Constitutionto  the	 State, Art . 370, el. (2) prescribes  that  if	 theconcurrence  of the Government of the State required by	 therelevant  sub-cls.  of	cl. (1) has been  given	 before	 theConstituent  Assembly  of Kashmir has  been  convened,	suchconcurrence  shall be placed before such Assembly  for	suchdecision as it may take thereon.  This clause shows that theConstitution  makers attached great importance to the  finaldecision of the Constituent Assembly, and the continuance ofthe  exercise of powers conferred on the Parliament and	 thePresident  by  the  relevant temporary	provisions  of	Art.370(1) is made conditional on the final approval by the saidConstituent Assembly in the said matters.Cl.  (3)  authorises  the President  to	 declare  by  publicnotification  that this article shall cease to be  operativeor  shall  be operative only with  specified  exceptions  ormodifications;	but  this  power can  be  exercised  by	 thePresident  only	 if the Constituent Assembly  of  the  Statemakes  recommendation in that behalf.  Thus the	 proviso  toel. (3) also emphasises the importance295which was attached to the final decision of the	 ConstituentAssembly  of  Kashmir  in regard  to  the  relevant  matterscovered by Art. 370.The  appellant	contends  that the scheme  of  this  Articleclearly shows that the person who would be recognised by thePresident as the Maharaja of Jammu & Kashmir was treated  asno more than a constitutional Ruler of the State.  In regardto matters covered by this Article he could not function  ordecide	by  himself  and in his own  discretion.   The	con-sultation  contemplated by this Article had to be  with	 theMaharaja  acting on the advice of the Council  of  Ministersand  the  concurrence prescribed by it had to  be  similarlyobtained  and given, and that brings out the limitations  onthe powers of the Maharaja.  It is also urged that the finaldecision in these matters has been deliberately left to	 theConstituent Assembly which was going to be convened for	 theframing	 of  the Constitution of the State, and	 that  againemphasises  the	 limitations imposed on the  powers  of	 theMaharaja.This  argument	assumes that under the explanation  to	Art.370(1)	it is the person recognised by the President as	 theMaharaja  who  has to act on the advice of' the	 Council  ofMinisters in relation to matters covered by Art. 370.	But,it is possible to take the view that the said clause  reallyindicates that in recognising any person as the Maharaja  ofthe  State  the President has to act on the  advice  of	 theCouncil of Ministers for the time being in office under	 theMaharaja's proclamation dated March 5, 1948.  If that be thetrue  construction  of the explanation,	 then  the  argumentthat, before the Maharaja is consulted or his concurrence isobtained,  he must act on the advice of his Ministers  wouldnot  be	 valid.	 We would, however, like to  deal  with	 theargument even on the assumption that the construction put bythe appellant on the explanation is right.On  the	 said construction the question which  falls  to  bedetermined  is: Do the provisions of Art. 370(1) affect	 theplenary	 powers	 of  the  Maharaja  in	the  matter  of	 thegovernance  of the State ? The effect of the application  ofthe present Article has to be judged in296the  light  of its object and its terms	 considered  in	 thecontext	 of the special features of the	 constitutional	 re-lationship  between the State and India.  The  Constitution-makers	were  obviously anxious that the  said	relationshipshould be finally determined by the Constituent Assembly  ofthe  State itself; that is the main basis for,	and  purportof,  the temporary provisions made by the present Article  ;and so the effect of its provisions must be confined to	 itssubject-matter.	  It would not be permissible or  legitimateto hold that, by implication, this Article sought to  imposelimitations  on	 the  plenary  legislative  powers  of	 theMaharaja.  These powers had been recognised and specificallyprovided by the Constitution Act of the State itself; and itwas not, and could not have been, within the  contemplation,or  competence	of the Constitution-makers to  impinge	evenindirectly on the said powers.	It would be recalled that bythe Instrument of Accession these powers have been expresslyrecognised   and  preserved  and  neither   the	  subsequentproclamation issued by Yuvaraj Karan Singh adopting, as	 faras  it was applicable, the proposed Constitution  of  India,nor  the  Constitution	Order  subsequently  issued  by	 thePresident,  purported to impose any limitations on the	saidlegislative  powers of the Ruler.  What form  of  governmentthe  State  should adopt was a matter which had to  be,	 andnaturally  was	left  to  be,  decided	by  the	 ConstituentAssembly  of  the  State.  Until  the  Constituent  Assemblyreached	 its  decision in that	behalf,	 the  constitutionalrelationship  between  the State and India continued  to  begoverned basically by the Instrument of Accession.  It wouldtherefore be unreasonable to assume that the application  ofArt. 370 could have affected, or was intended to affect, theplenary	 powers	 of  the  Maharaja  in	the  matter  of	 thegovernance  of the State.  In our opinion,  the	 appellant'scontention based on this Article must therefore be rejected.The  application of Arts. 245, 254 and 255, and of Art.	 246as  modified,,	does  not seem to have any  bearing  on	 thequestion  of  the authority and powers of the Ruler  of	 theState.	 Their application merely serves to provide for	 thelegislative powers of the Parliament297to  make  laws in respect of matters covered  by  Art.	370.Incidentally we may point out that the application of  Arts.246 and 254 as provided by the Constitution Order 10 of 1950has been subsequently modified by the Constitution Order  48of 1954.  Similarly Art. 255 which was originally applied bythe first Order has been deleted by the latter Order.	Thisshows  that it was subsequently realised that  the  originalapplication  of the said Articles prescribed by the  earlierOrder was more anticipatory and notional and required eithersuitable modification or cancellation.The  appellant has then relied upon the provisions  of	Art.385.  It provides:" Art. 385.-Until the House or Houses of the Legislature  ofa  State  specified in Part B of the First Schedule  has  orhave  been  duly constituted and summoned to  meet  for	 thefirst session under the provisions of this Constitution, thebody   or  authority  functioning  immediately	before	 thecommencement of this Constitution as the Legislature of	 thecorresponding  Indian  State shall exercise the	 powers	 andperform	  the  duties  conferred  by  provisions   of	thisConstitution  on the House or Houses of the  Legislature  ofthe State so specified."It  is	difficult  to see how  this  Article   supports	 theappellants contention.	In fact it is not easy to appreciatewhat  the  application of this Article to the  State  reallymeant.	 As we have already pointed out the  application  ofthe  specified	Articles to the State was  not	intended  toaffect,	 and constitutionally could not have  affected,	 theform  of  the  government prevailing in the  State  and	 theplenary legislative powers of the Maharaja in regard to	 thegovernment of the State.  As in regard to the application ofArts.  245,  254 and 255, so in regard to  this	 Article  aswell,  it was subsequently realised that the application  ofthe Article was purely notional and could serve no  purpose.That  is  why  by C. O. 48 of 1954  this  Article  has	beendeleted from the list of Articles applied to the State.	  Itseems  to  us that the initial formal  application  of	thisArticle cannot justify the appellant's case that the plenarylegislative powers vesting in the Ruler of the State38298were  not  only	 affected but, as  the	appellant  contends,completely  extinguished.   The constitutional	position  inregard	to the government of the State continued to  be	 thesame  despite the application of this Article.	 In  dealingwith the application of this Article and Arts.	245, 254 and255,  it  would	 be  permissible to  rely  on  the  rule  ofconstruction  set  out in Maxwell that " a  thing  which  iswithin the letter of a statute is generally to be consideredas  not	 within	 the  statute unless it	 is  also  the	realintention  of  the  Legislature	 It  is	 evident  that	 theConstitution-makers have treated the problem of Kashmir on aspecial	 basis	and that though the association	 of  Kashmirwith India which began with the Instrument of Accession	 hasbeen  steadily and gradually growing closer and closer on  ademocratic  basis, it still presents features not common  toany other State included in the Union of India.	 We have  nodoubt  that at the time when the Act was passed the  plenarylegislative  powers of the Yuvaraj had not been affected  inany  manner.   The result is that Yuvaraj  Karan  Singh	 wascompetent  to enact the Act in 1950 and so the challenge  tothe  validity  of  the Act on the ground  that	he  did	 notpossess	  legislative  competence  in  that  behalf   cannotsucceed.It  is	clear that the validity of the Act cannot  be  chal-lenged	on the ground that the Act did not provide  for	 thepayment of compensation.  For one thing s. 26 of the Act didcontemplate  the payment of compensation.  Besides,  as	 thelaw of the State then stood, there was no limitation on	 thelegislative power of the Ruler such as is prescribed by Art.31  of	the  Constitution; and Art. 31	had  not  been	thenapplied	 to  the State.	 Subsequently when  Art.  31(2)	 wasextended  to the State the Act no doubt became the  existinglaw and it has been saved by the new and modified cl. (5) ofthe said Article.There  is  another aspect of the matter to  which  referencemust  be  made.	 Section 26 of the Act had  left  the  finaldecision  on the question of the payment of compensation  tothe  Constituent  Assembly of the State; and  it  is  commonground that the Constituent Assembly has decided not to	 payany   compensation.   Mr.  Chatterjee  contends	 that	thisdecision is(1)  Maxwell on " Interpretation of Statutes ", 10th Ed., P.17.invalid	 because  the Constituent Assembly itself  was,	 notproperly  called and constituted.  There is no substance  inthis argument.	After Yuvaraj Karan Singh was put in  chargeof the duties of governing the State by Maharaja Hari  Singhby  his	 proclamation issued on June 20, 1949, he  began  tofunction  as  a Ruler and was entitled to exercise  all	 hispowers in that behalf He realised that the original plan  ofMaharaja  Hari	Singh to call a national assembly  which  heannounced on March 5, 1948, would not meet the	requirementsof  the	 situation  which had  radically  changed;  and	 theYuvaraj	 thought  that a Constituent Assembly on  a  broaderbasis should be called and should be entrusted with the taskof framing a Constitution without any delay.  It is idle  tosuggest	 that the Yuvaraj was bound to convene the  nationalassembly  on  the same lines as were laid down	by  MaharajaHari Singh in his proclamation and with the same object, forthe  same purpose, and subject to the same  conditions.	  Itwas  for  the  Yuvaraj	to  consider  the  situation   whichconfronted  him and it was within his competence  to  decidewhat solution would satisfactorily meet the requirements  ofthe  situation.	  We  have no doubt  that  the	Yuvaraj	 wasperfectly  competent to issue the proclamation on April	 20,1951,  under which the Constituent Assembly ultimately	cameto be elected and convened.  If the Constituent assembly wasproperly   constituted	and  it	 decided  not  to  pay	 anycompensation to the landlords it is difficult to  understandhow  the  validity  of	this  decision	can  be	 effectivelychallenged.That  leaves  only  one question to be	considered.   It  iscontended  that	 the Act is invalid under Art.	254  of	 theConstitution because it is inconsistent with the two earlierActs,  No. 10 of 1990 and No. 4 of 1977.  It is	 unnecessaryto  enquire whether there is any repugnancy between the	 Actand the earlier Acts to which the appellant refers.  In	 ouropinion	 the  argument based on the provisions of  Art.	 254must  be  rejected  on the preliminary	ground	that  it  isimpossible   to	 invoke	 the  assistance  of  this   Articleeffectively  because in terms the essential  conditions	 forits  application  are  absent in  the  present	case.	Thisargument  assumes  that	 under	Art.  254(1)  if  there	  isrepugnancy between300any  provision of a law made by the Legislature of  a  Stateand any provision of an existing law with respect to One  ofthe matters enumerated in the Concur-rent List, then subjectto  the	 provisions  of	 cl.  (2),  the	 law  made  by	 theLegislature of the State was to the extent of the repugnancyvoid.	The  appellant concedes that there is no  scope	 forapplying  the provisions of el. (2) of Art. 254 which  dealswith  cases where the subsequent law has been  reserved	 forthe  consideration  and assent of the  President;  but	thisaspect	of  the matter itself shows that the  whole  Articlewould in substance be inapplicable to the State.  Clause (2)of  Art.  254,	which is its integral  and  important  part,postulates that the Legislature of the State, in enacting  alaw on the relevant matter may reserve it for  considerationof  the	 President  and his assent,  and  thereby  save	 theconsequences of cl. (1) ; and cl. (2) was clearly  inapplic-able to the State.  Besides, it is clear that the  essentialcondition  for	the application of Art. 254(1) is  that	 theexisting  law  must be with respect to one  of	the  mattersenumerated in the Concurrent List; in other words, unless itis shown that the repugnancy is between the provisions of  asubsequent  law and those of an existing law in	 respect  ofthe  specified matters, the Article would  be  inapplicable;and,  as we have already pointed out, Schedule	Seven  whichcontains  the three Legislative Lists was not then  extendedto the State; and it is, therefore, impossible to  predicatethat  the  matter  covered by the prior law is	one  of	 thematters enumerated in the Concurrent List.  That is why Art.254 cannot be invoked by the appellant.	 On this view, it isnot necessary to consider whether the construction sought tobe  placed  by the appellant on this  Article  is  otherwisecorrect or not.The  result is that all the grounds urged by  the  appellantagainst the validity of the Act fail, and so it must be heldthat  the High Court was right in taking the view  that	 theplaintiff  had not shown that the Act was ultra vires.	 Theappeal accordingly fails and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.301