PETITIONER:H.   C. NARAYANAPPA AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MYSORE AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/04/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1073		  1960 SCR  (3) 742 CITATOR INFO : F	    1961 SC  82	 (6,14) D	    1963 SC1047	 (28) R	    1974 SC 669	 (9) R	    1977 SC 441	 (24) R	    1978 SC 215	 (30) R	    1981 SC 711	 (7) RF	    1986 SC1785	 (5) R	    1992 SC1888	 (8)ACT:Transport  Business-Stage  carriages-Exclusion	of   Privateoperators-Competence  of  Parliament to	 create	 monopolies-Grant  of  monopoly to State for  transport  business-Schemeframed	 by   State   for   State   Transport,	 UndertakingLegality--Motor	 Vehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 1939), Ch.	IVA,ss. 68C, 68D (2)-Constitution of India, Arts.  12,  13(3)(a)19(1)(g),  19(6), 298, Seventh Schedule, List II, entry	 26,List III, entries 21, 35.HEADNOTE:In exercise of the powers conferred by s. 68C of the  Motor-Vehicles  Act,	1939,  the General  Manager  of	 the  MysoreGovernment Road Transport Department published a scheme	 forthe  exclusion of private operators on certain routes  in  aspecified area and reservation of those routes for the StateTransport  Undertaking.	  The  scheme was  approved  by	 theGovernment  under  s,  68D(2) of the  Act  after  the  ChiefMinister  of  the  State had given  an	opportunity  to	 theoperators  affected  by the scheme to  make  representationsobjecting to it, The petitioners who were743private operators challenged the validity of the scheme	 andthe  action  taken by the Government pursuant to it  on	 thegrounds,  inter	 alia,	(1)  that  the	petitioners  have  afundamental  right to carry on the business of plying  stagecarriages  and that the provisions of Ch.  IVA of the  MotorVehicles Act, 1939, which provide for the right of the Stateto exclusive right to carry on motor transport business	 areinvalid,(2)that by Ch.	IVA Parliament had merely  attemptedto  regulate the procedure for entry by the State  into	 thebusiness  of motor transport in the State, and that  in	 theabsence of legislation expressly undertaken by the State  inthat  behalf, that State was incompetent to enter  into	 thearena  of  motor  transport business  to  the  exclusion  ofprivate	 operators,  and (3) that the  scheme  violated	 theequal  protection  clause of the Constitution  because	onlyfourteen out of a total of thirty one routes on which  stagecarriages  were	 plied	for public  transport  in  the	areaspecified were covered by the scheme :Held,  (1) that the expression " commercial  and  industrialmonopolies " in entry 21 of List III of the Seventh Scheduleof the Constitution of India is wide enough to include grantor  creation of commercial or industrial monopolies  to	 theState and citizens as well as control of monopolies.(2)  that  it is competent for the Parliament to  enact	 Ch.IVA  of	 the Act under entry 21 read with entry 35  of	ListIII.(3)that the scheme framed under s. 68C of the Motor VehiclesAct  may  be regarded as "law" within the  meaning  of	Art.19(6)  of  the	Constitution, made by  the  State  excludingprivate	 operators from notified routes or  notified  areas,and immune from the attack that it infringes the fundamentalright guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g).(4)that	 on  a	true reading, the  scheme  in  question	 wasapproved in relation to the fourteen notified routes and notin relation to a notified area and that as a scheme under s.68C  of	 the Act may be one in relation to an  area  or	 anyroute or portion thereof, the scheme could not be challengedas discriminatory.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 2 of 1960.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental Rights.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastry and B. B. L.  Iyengar,  for	 thepetitioner.G.   S.	 Pathak,  R. Gopalakrishnan and T. M. Sen,  for	 therespondents.C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of  India	 and  B.R.L.Iyengar, for the Intervener (D.	 R. Karigowda).1960.  April 28.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySHAH,  J.-The petitioners pray for a writ quashing a  schemeapproved under s. 68D(2) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, bythe Government of the State of744Mysore and for a writ restraining the respondents, i.e., theState of Mysore, the General Manager, the Mysore  GovernmentRoad   Transport  Department  and  the	Regional   TransportAuthority,  Bangalore,	from taking action pursuant  to	 thescheme.The petitioners are operators of Stage carriages on  certainroutes	in the sector popularly known as " Anekal area "  inthe  Bangalore District.  On January 13, 1959,	the  GeneralManager,  Mysore Government Road Transport  Department,	 whowill hereinafter be referred to as the 2nd respondent,	pub-lished	a scheme in exercise of the powers conferred  by  s.68C  of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, for the  exclusion  ofprivate operators on certain routes and reservation of thoseroutes	for  the State transport undertaking in	 the  Anekalarea.	The  Chief  Minister of the Mysore  State  gave	 theoperators  affected by the scheme an opportunity  of  makingoral representations and on perusing the written  objectionsand  considering  the  oral  representations,  approved	 thescheme as framed by the 2nd respondent.	 On April 23,  1959,the  scheme  was published in the  Mysore  State  Governmentgazette' On June 23, 1959, renewal applications submitted bypetitioners  1	to 3 for permits to ply Stage  carriages  oncertain	 routes covered by the scheme were rejected  by	 theTransport  Authority  and  the	2nd  respondent	 was   givenpermanent  permits  operative  as from June  24,  1959,	 forplying	buses on those routes.	In Writ Petition No. 463  of1959  challenging  the	validity of  the  permanent  permitsgranted to the 2nd respondent, the High Court of Mysore heldthat  the issue of permits to the 2nd respondent before	 theexpiry	of  six weeks from the date Of the  application	 wasillegal.  To petitioners 1 to 3 and certain other  operatorsrenewal	  permits  operative  till  March  31,	1961,	werethereafter   issued  by	 the  third  respondent.   The	 2ndrespondent  applied  for fresh permits in pursuance  of	 thescheme	approved  on  April  15,  1959,	 for  plying   Stagecarriages  on  routes specified in the	scheme	and  noticesthereof returnable on January 5, 1960, were served upon	 theoperators  likely  to be affected thereby.   On	 January  4,1960, the five petitioners745applied to this court under Art. 32 of the Constitution	 forquashing the scheme and for incidental reliefs.The petitioners claim that they have a fundamental right  tocarry  on  the business of plying stage	 carriages  and	 thescheme	framed	by the 2nd respondent and  approved  by	 theState	of   Mysore  unlawfully	 deprives  them	  of   theirfundamental  right to carry on the business of plying  stagecarriages in the Anekal area.  The diverse grounds on  whichthe writ is claimed by the petitioners need not be Bet	out,because,  at  the hearing of the petition, counsel  for	 thepetitioners  has  restricted his argument to  the  followingfour heads:(1)  that the scheme violates the equal protection clause ofthe  Constitution, because only fourteen out of a  total  ofthirty	one routes on which stage carriages were  plied	 forpublic	transport  in the Anekal area were  covered  by	 thescheme	and  that  even	 from among  the  operators  on	 thefourteen  routes  notified,  two operators  were  left	out,thereby	  making  a  flagrant  discrimination  between	 theoperators even on those fourteen routes;(2)  that  by Chapter IVA of the Motor Vehicles	 Act,  1939,Parliament  had merely attempted to regulate  the  procedurefor entry by the States into the business of motor transportin  the State, and in the absence of  legislation  expresslyundertaken by the State of Mysore in that behalf, that Statewas  incompetent to enter into the arena of motor  transportbusiness to the exclusion of private operators;(3)that	 the Chief Minister who heard the objections to	 thescheme	was biased against the petitioners and that  in	 anyevent,	the  objections	 raised by the	operators  were	 notconsidered judicially; and(4)  that  the	Chief  Minister	 did  not  give	 "   genuineconsideration " to the objections raised by the operators tothe scheme in the light of the conditions prescribed by	 theLegislature.Re. 1:In  column  1 of the scheme " part  of	Bangalore  District,viz,, Bangalore North, Bangalore South, Anekal and  HosakoteTaluks	"  is set out as the area in relation to  which	 thescheme is approved; and in746column 3, " the routes (with their starting points, termini,intermediate  stations and route length) in which the  Statetransport  undertaking	will introduce its services  to	 theexclusion  of  private	operators " are	 those	set  out  instatement  1 appended to the scheme.  Statement 1  sets	 outthe  description of fourteen routes with their	intermediatepoints, route length, number of buses to be operated and themaximum	 number of trips to be performed on each route.	  Bycolumn	4 " the number of existing stage carriages  on	eachroute with the number of trips and the names of their opera-tors  "	 are  described	 " as in  statement  2	appended  ".Statement  2  sets out the names and places of	business  offifty-six  operators together with the routes  operated	 andthe  numbers of the stage carriages and trips made by  thoseoperators.  In the Anekal area, there are thirty-one routes,which  are  served by stage carriages  operated	 by  privateoperators, and by the approval of the scheme, only  fourteenof those routes are covered by the scheme'Section	 68C, in so far as it is material, provides  that  aState transport undertaking, if it is of opinion that it  isnecessary  in  the  public  interest  that  road   transportservices in relation to any area or route or portion thereofshould	be  run	 and  operated by  itself,  whether  to	 theexclusion,   complete  or  partial,  of	 other	persons	  orotherwise, it may prepare a scheme giving particulars of thenature of the services proposed to be rendered, the area  orroute	proposed  to  be  covered  and	 other	 particularsrespecting  thereto  as may be prescribed.   Section  68D(1)provides for inviting objections by persons affected by	 thescheme.	  Sub-section  2  of s.	 68D  authorises  the  StateGovernment  after considering the objections and  giving  anopportunity  to	 the  objectors to  approve  or	 modify	 thescheme; and by sub-s. 3, the scheme as approved or  modifiedand  published	by  the State  Government  in  the  officialgazette	 shall	"  become  final and  shall  be	 called	 theapproved  scheme and the area or route to which	 it  relatesshall  be  called  the notified	 area  or  notified  route."Counsel for the petitioners contended that exercising powersunder s. 68C, the State transport undertaking may prepare  ascheme in respect of an747area  or a number of routes in that area, but not  a  schemefor  an area which is to apply to some only and not to,	 allroutes	on  which  public transport  vehicles  in  the	areaoperate.  In this case, it is unnecessary to decide  whetherit  is open to a State transport undertaking under a  schemeframed for a notified area to limit its application to	someonly of the routes, because on a true reading of the scheme,it  is amply clear that the scheme was approved in  relationto  fourteen  notified	routes	and not	 in  relation  to  anotified  area.,,  The	approved  scheme  is  in  the	formprescribed  by	the rules, and in the  form  prescribed,  bycolumn	1,  the	 area in relation to  which  the  scheme  isapproved  is required to be set out.  But a scheme under  s.68C  must  be  one in relation to an area or  any  route  orportion	 thereof  wherein  the transport service  is  to  beundertaken  by	the  State transport  under  taking  to	 theexclusion,  either complete or partial, of other  operators.Column	1 of the approved scheme undoubtedly  describes	 thearea in relation to which the scheme is approved, but by thedesignation  of	 the area, in the scheme,  an  intention  toexclude	 either wholly or partially the operators  of  stagecarriages from that area is not evinced either expressly  orby  implication.  By column 3, the scheme expressly  directsthat  the  State transport undertaking	will  introduce	 itsservice	 to  the  exclusion  of	 private  operators  on	 thespecified routes.  The scheme must therefore be regarded  asone for the fourteen notified routes and not in relation  tothe area described in column 1.Counsel	 for the petitioners submitted that an order  passedon  October  22, 1959, by the 3rd  respondent  the  RegionalTransport  Authority-rejecting applications for permits	 forone  of the fourteen routes to an applicant, indicated	thatin the opinion of the third, respondent, the scheme  relatedto  a notified area and not to notified routes.	  The  orderstates	that.	"  an  approved	 scheme	 for  the  exclusiveoperation  in the notified area of Bangalore District  "  bythe  second respondent " has come into existence  after	 thenotification  of  the  route Bangalore to  Nallur,  and	 themajor, portion of the route applied for lie in the  notifiedarea and as such it was not desirable, to grant any permit748to operators to pass through notified area in the intraStateroute."	 The  third respondent may have in  considering	 theapplication  assumed that the scheme related to	 a  notifiedarea,  but the true interpretation of the scheme  cannot  beadjudged  in  the  light  of  that  assumption.	  The  otherdocument  relied upon is a statement of objections filed  bythe  second  respondent on October 24, 1959,  resisting	 theapplication for stage carriage permits to a private operatoron the route Siddalaghatta-Bangalore via Nallur.  In para. 4of  the	 statement,  it was submitted that  "  the  existingnotification dated October 15, 1959, came under the notifiedarea of the department" of the second respondent " and	thatwould  overlap	certain	 services of  the  department".	 Butbecause	 in  making his defence, the second  respondent	 hasreferred to the scheme as dealing with " the notified area",the  scheme  will  not	necessarily be hold  to	 be  one  inrelation to the notified area.The  argument  that  among the	operators  on  the  fourteenroutes, two have been selected for special treatment and  onthat  account,	the scheme is discriminatory,  has,  in	 ourjudgment,  no substance.  It is averred in para. 13  of	 thepetition that two persons, Chikkaveerappa operating on routeChikkathirupathi  to Bangalore via Surjapur,  Domsandra	 andAgara and Krishna Rao operating on route Bangalore to  Chik-kathirupathi  via Agara and Surjapur are not  amongst  thosewho  are  excluded  from operating  their  vehicles  on	 thenotified  routes.  In the affidavit filed by the  State	 andthe second respondent, it is submitted that the plea of	 thepetitioners  that the two persons operating stage  carriageson specified routes were not amongst those to be excluded isincorrect,  and that those two persons had been notified  bythe  Secretary	of  the third respondent that  they  were  "likely	to  be	affected on giving effect  to  the  approvedscheme." Undoubtedly, route-item No. 2 in statement 1 to thescheme	is " Bangalore to Surjapur or any portion thereof  "and  the  route operates via Agara and	Domsandra,  but	 therecord does not disclose that the two named persons are,  inplying	their  stage carriages, entitled to operate  on	 theroute  specified with right to stop at the named places	 forpicking up passengers.749It  is not clear on the averments made in the petition	thatthe  route  on which the stage carriages of  the  two  namedpersons	 ply are identical; even if the routes on which	 thestage  carriages  of  these two operators  ply	overlap	 thenotified route, in the absence of any evidence to show	thatthey  had  the	right to pick up passengers  en	 route,	 thediscrimination	alleged cannot be deemed to have  been	madeout.Re. 2:Article	  298  of  the	Constitution  as  amended   by	 theConstitution  (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956. recognises	 theexecutive power of the Union and of each State as  extendingto the carrying on of any trade or business.  That power  ofthe Union is subject in so, far as the trade or business  isnot  one  in respect of which Parliament may make  laws,  tolegislation by the State and the power of each State, in  sofar  as	 the trade or business is not one  with	 respect  towhich  the  State Legislature may make laws, is	 subject  tolegislation  by	 Parliament.  Like  ordinary  citizens,	 theUnion  and the State Governments may carry on any  trade  orbusiness subject to restrictions which may be imposed by theLegislatures  competent	 to  legislate	in  respect  of	 theparticular  trade or business.	Under Article 19(6)  of	 theConstitution  as amended by the First Amendment	 Act,  1951,nothing	 in sub-cl. (g) of cl. (1) of Art. 19 is  to  affectthe  operation of any existing law in so far as	 it  relatedto, or prevent the State from making any law relating to thecarrying  on  by  the State or by  a  Corporation  owned  orcontrolled by the State of any industry or business, whetherto  the	 exclusion,  complete or  partial,  of	citizens  orotherwise.   The State may therefore carry on any  trade  orbusiness,  and	legislation relating to the carrying  on  oftrade or business by ,the State, is not liable to be  calledin question on the ground that it infringes the	 fundamentalfreedom of citizens under Art. 19(1)(g).  The Motor VehiclesAct.1939, was enacted by the Central Legislative Assembly inexercise  of  its power under the Government of	 India	Act,1935,  to  legislate in respect of  mechanically  'propelledvehicles.   Chapter  IVA  containing  ss.  68A	to  681	 wasincorporated  into that Act by the Parliament by Act 100  of1956 whereby special provisions97750relating  to  the conduct of transport undertakings  by	 theStates or Corporations owned or controlled by the State weremade.  Section 68A defines the expression " State  transportundertaking  "	as meaning among others an  undertaking	 forproviding  transport  service  carried	on  by	the  CentralGovernment  or	a  State Government or	any  Road  TransportCorporation  established under Act 44 of 1950.	By  s.	68B,the provisions of that chapter and the rules and orders madethereunder  are	 to override Chapter IV and  other  laws  inforce.	  Section   68C	 authorises  the   State   transportundertaking  to	 prepare  and  publish	a  scheme  of	roadtransport   services  of  a  State  transport	undertaking.Section	 68D  deals with the lodging of	 objections  to	 thescheme	framed	under the preceding section,  the  of  thoseobjections and the publication of the final scheme  approvedor modified by the State Government.  Section 68F deals withthe  issue  of permits to State	 transport  undertakings  inrespect	 of a notified area or notified route  and  providesthat  the  Regional  Transport Authority  shall	 issue	suchpermits	 to the State transport undertaking  notwithstandinganything  contained  in	 Chapter IV.  It  also	enables	 theRegional  Transport  Authority,	 for giving  effect  to	 theapproved scheme, to refuse to entertain any application	 forthe  renewal  of any other permit, to  cancel  any  existingpermit, to modify the terms of any existing permit so as  torender	the permit ineffective beyond a specified  date,  toreduce	the number of vehicles authorised to be	 used  underthe  permit and to curtail the area or route covered by	 thepermit.	  Section 68G sets out the principles and method  ofdetermining  compensation to persons whose existing  permitsare cancelled.By  Chapter  IVA, the State transport undertaking  which  iseither	a department of the State or a corporation owned  orcontrolled  by	the State on the approval of  a	 scheme,  isentitled,  consistently with the scheme, to exclusive  rightto,  carry  on	motor  transport  business.   The   RegionalTransport Authority is, bound to grant permit for the routescovered	 by the,, scheme to the State transport	 undertakingif  that  authority applies for the same  and  the  RegionalTransport Authority is751also  bound  in	 giving effect to the  approved	 scheme,  tomodify	the  terms  of existing permits	 and  to  refuse  toentertain  applications	 for renewal of permits	 of  privateoperators.   Chapter  IVA is not merely	 regulatory  of	 theprocedure for carrying on business of road transport by	 theState;	it enables the State transport undertaking,  subjectto  the	 provisions  of	 the  scheme,  to  exclude   privateoperators and to acquire a monopoly, partial or complete, incarrying  on  transport business, in a notified area  or  onnotified routes.The  authority	of  the Parliament to  enact  laws  grantingmonopolies  to the State Government to conduct the  businessof  road transport is not open to serious challenge.   EntryNo.  21 of List III of the Seventh Schedule  authorises	 theUnion Parliament and the State Legislatures concurrently  toenact	laws  in  respect  of  commercial   and	  industrialmonopolies,  combines  and  trusts.   The  argument  of	 thepetitioners that the authority conferred by entry No. 21  inList  III  is  restricted  to  legislation  to	control	  ofmonopolies  and	 not to grant or creation of  commercial  orindustrial monopolies has little substance.  The  expression"  commercial and industrial monopolies " is wide enough  toinclude	 grant	or monopolies to the State and	Citizens  aswell  as  control of monopolies, The expression	 used  in  aconstitutional enactment conferring legislative powers	mustbe construed not in any narrow or restricted sense but in  asense  beneficial  to the widest possible amplitude  of	 itspowers: Navinchandra Mafatlal v. The Commissioner of Income-tax,   Bombay  City(1),	 The  United  Provinces	 v.   AtiquaBegum(2).   Entry No. 26 of List II of the Seventh  Schedulewhich  invests	the  States  with  exclusive  authority	  tolegislate in respect of trade and commerce within the State,subject. to the provisions of entry No. 33 of List III, doesnot  derogate  from the authority conferred by entry  21  ofList  III  concurrently	 to the	 Parliament  and  the  StateLegislatures,  to  grant  or create  by	 law  commercial  orindustrial  monopolies.	 The amplitude of the  powers  underthe  entry  in the concurrent list  expressly  dealing	withcommercial  and industrial monopolies cannot be presumed  tobe restricted by the(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 829, 836.(2) [1940] F. C. R. 110.752generality  of	the expression " trade and commerce  in	 theState  List.   If the argument of the  petitioners  and	 theintervener that legislation relating to monopoly in  respectof trade and industry is within the exclusive competence  ofthe State be accepted, the Union Parliament cannot legislateto  create monopolies in the Union Government in respect  ofany commercial or trading venture even though power to carryon any trade or business under a monopoly is reserved to theUnion  by  the combined operation of Art. 298, and  the	 lawwhich  is  protected from the attack that it  infringes	 thefundamental freedom to carry on business by Art. 19(6).	  Weare therefore of the view that Chapter IVA could competentlybe  enacted by the Parliament under entry No. 21  read	withentry No. 35 of the Concurrent List.The  plea sought to be founded on the phraseology,  used  inArt.  19(6)  that the State intending to carry on  trade  orbusiness  must itself enact the law authorising it to  carryon  trade  or  business is equally  devoid  of	force.	 Theexpression " the State " as defined in Art. 12 is  inclusiveof the Government and Parliament of India and the Governmentand the Legislature of each of the States.  Under entry	 No.21 of the Concurrent List, the Parliament being competent tolegislate  for creating, commercial or	trading	 monopolies,there  is, nothing in the Constitution which deprives it  ofthe power to create a commercial or trading monopoly in	 theConstituent   States.	Article	 19(6)	is  a  mere   savingprovision:  its	 function is not to create a power  but	 to,immunise  from	attack	the exercise  of  legislative  powerfalling	 within its ambit.  The right of the State to  carryon  trade  or business to the exclusion of others  does	 not&rise  by virtue of Art. 19(6).	 The right of the  State  tocarry  on  trade  or business is  recognised  by  Art.	298;authority to exclude competitors in the field of such  tradeor business is conferred on the State by entrusting power toenact  laws  under  entry  21 of List  III  of	the  SeventhSchedule,, and the exercise of that power in the context  offundamental rights is secured from attack by Art. 19(6),In  any	 event, the expression " law " as, defined  in	Art.13(3)(a) includes any ordinance, order, bye-law,753rule, regulation, notification custom, etc., and the  schemeframed	under  s. 68C may properly be regarded as  "  law  "within the meaning of Art. 19(6) made by the State excludingprivate	 operators from notified routes or  notified  areas,and immune from the attack that it infringes the fundamentalright guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g).Be.3:The  plea  that the Chief Minister who approved	 the  schemeunder  S., 68D was biased has no substance.  Section 68D  ofthe  Motor  Vehicles Act undoubtedly imposes a duty  on	 theState  Government  to  act  judicially	in  considering	 theobjections and in approving or modifying the scheme proposedby the transports undertaking.	Gullapalli Nageswara Rao  v.Andhra	 Pradesh  State	 Road  Transport   Corporation	 andanother(1).  It is also true that the Government on whom theduty  to decide the dispute rests, is substantially a  partyto  the	 dispute but if the Government or the  authority  towhom the power is delegated acts judicially in approving  ormodifying  the scheme, the approval or modification  is	 notopen to challenge on a presumption of bias.  The Minister orthe officer of the Government who is invested with the powerto  hear objections to the scheme is acting in his  officialcapacity and unless there is reliable evidence to show. thathe  is biased, his decision will not be liable to be  calledin question, merely because he is, a limb of the Government.The  Chief Minister of the State has filed an  affidavit  inthis  case  stating that the contention of  the	 petitionersthat he was " biased in favour of the scheme was baseless hehas   also  stated  that  he  heard  such   objections	 andrepresentation& as were made before him and he had given thefullest	 opportunity  to  the  objectors  to  submit   theirobjections  individually.   The Chief  Minister	 has  given.detailed reasons for approving the scheme and has dealt withsuch of the objections as he says were urged before him.  Inthe last para. of the reasones given, it is stated that	 theGovernment  have heard all the arguments advanced on  behalfof  the operators and " after: giving full  consideration-tothem, the Government have come to(1959) Supp. 1 S.C.R.319754the conclusion that the scheme is necessary in the  interestof  the	 public and is accordingly approved subject  to	 themodifications  that it shall come into force on May 1,	1959".  In	the  absence of	 any  evidence	controverting  theseaverments, the plea of bias must fail.Be. 4:The  argument that the Chief Minister did not  give  genuineconsideration " to the objections raised by operators to thescheme	in  the light of the conditions	 prescribed  has  noforce.	 The  order  of the  Chief  Minister  discusses	 thequestions of law as well as questions of fact.	There is  nospecific reference in the order to certain objections  whichwere raised in the reply filed by the objectors, but we are,on that account, unable to hold that the Chief Minister	 didnot  consider those objections.	 The guarantee conferred  bys.  68D of the Motor Vehicles Act upon persons likely to  beaffected  by  the  intended  scheme is	&  guarantee  of  anopportunity  to	 put  forth their objections.  and  to	makerepresentations	  to  the  State  Government   against	 theacceptance  of	the  scheme.   This  opportunity  of  makingrepresentations and of being heard in support thereof may beregarded  as  real  only  if in	 the  consideration  of	 theobjections,   there  is	 a  judicial  approach.	   But	 theLegislature  does  not contemplate an appeal to	 this  Courtagainst	 the order passed by the State Government  approvingor  modifying the scheme.  Provided the	 authority  investedwith   the  power  to  consider	 the  objections  gives	  anopportunity  to the objectors to be heard in the matter	 anddeals  with  the  objections  in the  light  of	 the  objectintended  to  be secured by the scheme, the  ultimate  orderpassed by that authority is not open to challenge either  onthe ground that another view may possibly have been taken onthe objections or that detailed reasons have not been  givenfor  upholding	or rejecting the contentions raised  by	 theobjectors.In  the	 view  taken by us, the contentions  raised  by	 thepetitioners  fail  and the petition is	therefore  dismissedwith costs.				 Petition dismissed.755