PETITIONER:THE STATE OF ORISSA AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:M/s.  CHAKOBHAI GHELABHAI AND COMPANYDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/09/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  284		  1961 SCR  (1) 719 CITATOR INFO : R	    1968 SC 565	 (20)ACT:Sales Tax-Sales tax authorities-Whether courts-Levy of	feeson memorandum of    appeal and application    for  revision-Whether	  taxes-Legislative  competence	 place	where	saleeffected-Question  of  law or	 fact-Issue  of	 one  noticefor  several  quarters-Legality-Orissa Sales Tax  Act,	1947(Orissa 14 of 1947), ss. 2(g), 12(5), 29(2)(s)-Orissa  SalesTax  Rules, 1947, rr.  20, 59-Government of India Act,	1935(25  & 26 Geo. 5, Ch. 42), Seventh Schedule, List II,  Items1, 48, 54.HEADNOTE:The  respondent firm, which had its headquarters  in  MadhyaPradesh	 and was, during the years 1948 to 1951, engaged  incollecting  bidi leaves from certain forest areas in  Orissaand  dispatching  them to various destinations	outside	 theState  of Orissa, did not get itself registered as a  dealerunder  the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947, and did not submit  areturn in spite of the notice issued to it, It was asked  toshow  cause  why a penalty should not be  imposed  under  s.12(5) of the Act.  The assessing authority then proceeded toassess	the tax to the best of its judgment  and  determinedthe  taxable turnover for each of the twelve  quarters,	 thefirst quarter ending on June 30, 1948, and the last  quarterending	on  March 31, 1951.  A penalty of Rs. 500  for	eachquarter	 was also imposed.  The respondent's appeal  to	 theAssistant  Collector  of  Sales Tax against  the  orders  ofassessment  and	 penalty  was dismissed,  and  the  revisionpetition  was rejected by the Collector of Commercial  Taxesas  having been filed out of time.  One of the	pleas  takenbefore	the appellate authority was that the respondent	 wasnot a dealer in Orissa inasmuch as the sales of bidi  leaveswere  not  effected  in Orissa, but at the  hearing  of	 theappeal it was admitted by the respondent's pleader that	 thesales  were completed in Orissa.  The High Court, on a	writpetition filed by the respondent, set aside the	  orders  ofassessment and penalty on the grounds, inter alia, (i)	thatthe assessment orders were bad because of the repeal of	 thesecond	proviso to S. 2(g) of the Act defining " sale ",  bythe  Adaptation	 of Laws Order, 1950, (2) that the  levy  offees  on  the memorandum of appeal and	the  application  inrevision on a graded scale under r. 59 read with s. 29(2)(s)of  the	 Act amounted to the imposition of a tax  which	 wasbeyond the competence of the State, and (3) that the  noticeissued under s. 12(5) of the Act was not in accordance	withlaw,  inasmuch as separate notices were not issued for	eachquarter.92720Held, (i) that the question as to where a sale was completeddepended  on facts and was not a pure question of  law	and,therefore,  the admission made by the  respondent's  pleaderwas  binding  on the respondent; and that as  the  admissionbrought	 the  sales  within  s. 2(g)  of  the  Act,  it	 wasunnecessary to consider the second proviso  to s.  2(g)	 andthe sales,were liable to tax ;(2)  that the sales-tax authorities including the AssistantCollector of  Sales  Tax  and the  Collector  of  CommercialTaxes, though they exercised quasi-judicial functions  underthe  Act, were not courts in the strict sense of the term  "Court " ;(3)  that  fees levied under r. 59 read with s. 29(2)(s)  ofthe  Act  were	not  taxes but	were  imposed  for  servicesrendered  by a governmental agency.  Section  29(2)(s)	was,not invalid on the ground of legislative incompetence and r.59 did not go beyond what was permitted under that section;The Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v.	 SriLakshmindra  Thirtha  Swamiar  of Sri  Shirur  Mutt,  [1954]S.C.R. 1005, relied on.(4)  that the issue of one notice under s. 12(5) of the	 Actfor several quarters was not contrary to law as the  sectionmakes reference to a period which might consist of more thanone quarter.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION  Civil Appeal No. 710 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 5,  1955,of the Orissa High Court in O. J. C. No. 92 of 1954.N.   C.	 Chatterjee,  H. J. Umrigar and T. M. Sen,  for	 theappellants.J.   M. Thakar and J. B. Dadachanji for the respondents.R.   Gopalakrishnan   and   J.	B.   Dadachanji,   for	 theIntervener.1960.	September  20.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered by   S. K. DAS J.-This is an appeal on a certificate granted bythe  High Court of Orissa.  The appellants are the State  ofOrissa	and the Collector of Commercial Taxes, Orissa.	 Therespondent  is a partnership firm called Messrs.   ChakobhaiGhelabhai and Company dealing in " bidi ' leaves.The  short  facts are these.  The respondent firm'  has	 itsheadquarters in Bagbehera in Madhya Pradesh.721During the years 1948 to 1951 it was engaged, in  collecting'  bidi'  leaves from certain forest areas in  Orissa.	 Theleaves so collected were made up into bundles and stored  inthe respondent's godowns in Orissa.  They were then sold anddispatched  to	various destinations outside  the  State  ofOrissa.	  The respondent did not get itself registered as  adealer under the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Orissa Act	 XIVof  1947), hereinafter called the Act.	On July 21, 1950,  anotice	was issued to the respondent by the Assistant  SalesTax  Officer, Patna Circle, requiring it to submit a  returnin  Form  No. IV showing separately the particulars  of	 itsturnover for each of the quarters commencing October,  1947,and  upto June 30, 1950.  The respondent was also  asked  toshow  cause why a penalty should not be imposed on it  unders.  12(5) of the Act.  To this notice the respondent sent  areply  to the effect, substantially, that it carried  on  noselling	 business  in Orissa and was,  therefore  tinder  noliability to register itself as a dealer in Orissa or to paysales tax under the Act.  Thereafter, the respondent took nopart  in the assessment proceedings and made  no  appearancebefore the assessing authority except on June 30, 1951, whenone  of	 its partners Narvaram Popatbhai appeared  and	saidthat  the accounts were at Bagbehera and the  dispatches  of'bidi'	 leaves	 from  Orissa  were  mixed  up	with   otherdispatches and, therefore, he was not in a position to	givea  correct  account  of	 the business  in  Orissa.   It	 wasadmitted, however, that the 'bidi ' leaves were collected inOrissa,	 were processed and manufactured for sale  and	thenstored	in  godowns  in	 Orissa; they  were  then  sold	 anddispatched  to	different  customers  outside  Orissa.	 Theassessing authority held on the materials before it that thetransfer  of  property	in  the	 'bidi	'  leaves  sold	 anddispatched to customers as aforesaid was completed in Orissaand   the  respondent  wailfully.  failed  to	get   itselfregistered  and	 to submit a return of	its  turnover.	 Theassessing authority then proceeded to assess the tax to	 thebest of its judgment and determined the taxable turnover  tobe  Rs.	 61,250 for each of the twelve quarters,  the  firstquarter ending722on  June 30, 1948, and the last quarter ending on March	 31,1951.	It  also  imposed  a penalty of	 Es.  500  for	eachquarter.  The orders of assessment were made on two dates-onJuly 4, 1951, for four quarters and on August 29, 1951,	 forthe  remaining	eight  quarters.  Against  these  orders  ofassessment the respondent went up in appeal to the AssistantCollector  of Sales Tax, Sambalpur.  One of the pleas  takenbefore	the appellate authority was that the respondent	 wasnot  a	dealer in Orissa inasmuch as the sales of '  bidi  'leaves	were not effected in Orissa.  In the course  of	 thehearing	 of the appeal this plea. was given up, and  it	 wasadmitted  by the respondent's pleader that "the	 sales	werecompleted  in  Orissa ". The appeal was then  heard  on	 thecontentions that (1) the turnover determined was  excessive,and  (2)  that no penalty should have been  imposed.   Thesecontentions  were rejected by the appellate authority.	 Therespondent then moved in revision, but the revision petitionhaving been filed out of time was rejected by the  Collectorof Commercial Taxes, Orissa.The respondent then moved the High Court of Orissa by  meansof  a writ petition- in which it was contended that (1)	 therespondent was not a dealer in Orissa; (2) that the sales ofthe  post-Constitution period were sales within the  meaningof  the Explanation to Art. 286(1)(a) as it then  stood	 andOrissa	could  not tax them ; (3) that the notice  under  s.12(5)  of the Act was bad on various grounds; (4)  that	 thefees  levied  under rule 59 of the Orissa Sales	 Tax  Rules,1947, on the respondent's 'Memorandum of appeal and revisionapplication,  were  not justified in law; and (5)  that	 theassessment was illegally made and so also the penalty  unders.  12(5) of the Act.  On these contentions  the  respondentasked for a writ quashing the assessment proceedings and thenotices	 of demand and for a direction for a refund  of	 thefees  paid.   The  High Court allowed the  petition  by	 itsJudgment  and order dated September 5, 1955.  It  set  asidethe  assessment orders, directed a refund of the  fees	paidand  further  made  an order that the  respondent  shall  bedirected " to furnish a return of its transactions 723under,s. 11 for the period for which it had been served witha  notice  under s. 11(1) of the Act ". In  support  of	 itsorders	the High Court came to the following  findings:	 (1)that the assessment orders were bad because of the repeal ofthe second proviso-to s. 2(g) of the Act defining "Sale", bythe  Adaptation	 of Laws Order, 1950; (2) that the  levy  offees  on a graded scale amounted to the imposition of a	 taxwhich  was unwarranted and beyond the rule making  power  ofthe  State Government; and (3) that the notice issued  unders. 12(5) was not in accordance with law.On  behalf of the appellants it has been contended that	 theHigh Court was in error in respect of all the three findingsat  which  it had arrived.  As to the finding  of  the	HighCourt  that  the assessment orders were bad because  of	 therepeal of the second proviso to s. 2(g) of the Act, we thinkthat  the High Court was clearly in error.  In view  of	 theadmission  made	 on behalf of the respondent, it  was  quiteunnecessary  to deal with the second proviso s. 2(g) of	 theAct  or	 to  consider  the  effect  of	its  repeal  by	 theAdaptation of Laws Order, 1950, or the effect of the  savingclause in paragraph 20 thereof.	 The admission on behalf  ofthe respondent, made in very clear terms as recorded by	 theappellate  authority, was that the sales were  completed  inOrissa.	 Section 2(g) of the Act states:"S. 2(g)-" sale " means, with all its grammatical variationsand  cognate expressions, any transfer of property in  goodsfor   cash   or	  deferred   payment   or   other   valuableconsideration,	including  a transfer of property  in  goodsinvolved in the execution of contract but does not include amortgage, hypothecation, char or pledge."The admission made in this case clearly brings the sales  of'bidi'	leaves within s. 2(g) of the Act; and as  the  saleswere completed in Orissa, they were liable to tax under	 theAct.   It was quite unnecessary to go to the second  provisoto s. 2(g) in view of the admission of the respondent.Learned	 Counsel  for  the  respondent	suggested  that	 theadmission made by the respondent's pleader was an  admissionon a question of law and, therefore, not724binding	 on the respondent.  We do not agree.  The  questionwhere a sale is completed depends on facts and is not a purequestion  of  law.  It is worthy of note, that at  no  stagesubsequent to the admission did the respondent repudiate  itor challenge its correctness.  Even in the writ' petition itwas not stated that a wrong admission had been made; on 'thecontrary  the  appellate  authority's  order  in  which	 theadmission was set out was an annexure to the writ  petition.It  is	indeed	true that is paragraph	13(a)  of  the	writpetition a contention was raised with regard to the sales ofthe post-Constitution period and a reference was made to theExplanation  to	 Art. 286(1)(a) as it then stood.   But	 thenecessary  averments  to attract the  Explanation  were	 notmade,  and  nowhere  was  it  stated  that  the	 goods	weredispatched outside Orissa for the purpose of' consumption inthe delivery State.  In other words, no foundation was	laidfor  making a distinction between the  pre-Constitution	 andpost-Constitution  sales, and with regard to all of them  itwas admitted that they were completed in Orissa-an admissionwhich	was  never  repudiated	or  challenged.	   We	are,therefore,  of the opinion that the High Court, was  clearlyin error in its first finding as to the	 unconstitutionalityof the assessment orders made.We  think  that	 the High Court was also  in  error  in	 itsfinding	 as  to	 the  legality of the  fees  levied  on	 thememorandum  of	appeal	and  the  application  in  revision.Section 29 of the Act deals with the rule making power.	  Itstates:"  S.  29(1)-The  State	 Government  may,  subject  to	 thecondition  of previous publication, make rules for  carryingout the purposes of this Act.(2)  In	 particular and without prejudice to the  generalityof the foregoing power, such rules may prescribe-(s)  the  procedure for and other matters  (including  fees)incidental to, the disposal of appeals and applications	 forrevision and review under s. 23."Rule 59 of the Orissa Sales Tax Rules, 1947, so far as it isrelevant for our purpose says:-725R. 59. Fees-Subject to the provisions of rule60 the following fees shall be payable:-(i) .....................	.....................(ii) On a memorandum of		Five per cent of the amountappeal against an order of	amount in dispute calculatedassessment or penalty or both	to the nearest rupee subjector an application for revision	to a minimum of one rupeeor review of such order.	and maximum of one hundred				rupees.(iii) .....................	..........................(iv) On an application for    One rupee."      revision.The  first  question is if s. 29(2)(s) in so far as  it	 em-powers the State Government to make a rule prescribing	feesfor  appeals  and applications in revision  was	 within	 thelegislative  competence of the Provincial Legislature.	 TheAct was enacted in 1947 and the source of legislative  powermust be found in the Government of India Act, 1935.  Item 48of  List  II (Provincial Legislative List)  in	the  SeventhSchedule  of the said Act related to "Taxes on the  sale  ofgoods  " and item 54 read: " Fees in respect of any  of	 thematters	 in this list, but not including fees taken  in	 anycourt".	  Item	"related inter alia to	"  constitution	 andOrganisation  of  all courts except the Federal	 Court,	 andfees taken therein." The High Court held that the  assessingauthorities  including the Assistant Collector of Sales	 Taxand  the  Collector of Commercial Taxes,  Orissa,  were	 notcourts	in  the strict sense of the term " Court  ",  thoughthey  exercised quasi judicial functions under the Act.	  Wethink  that is a correct view.	But it does not	 necessarilyfollow	that  the  fees imposed under r.  59  read  with  s.29(2)(s)  are  illegal.	  Under items 48  and  54  the	thenProvincial Legislature had power to make a law for taxes  onthe  sale  of goods and for fees in respect  thereof.	Evenwith  regard to Court-fees, the Provincial  Legislature	 hadpower  to make a law under item 1. We do not think  that  s.29(2) (s) can be held to be bad on the ground of legislativeincompetence.	Nor do we think that r. 59 goes beyond	whatis  permitted  under a. 29(2)(s). The fees imposed  are	 nottaxes; they726come within the expression " other matters (including  fees)incidental  to the disposal of appeals and applications	 forrevision  etc.". We are unable to agree with the High  Courtthat  the  word "incidental' has reference to  a  matter  ofcasual nature only.  The procedure for disposal of an appealincludes  as a necessary incidental matter the filing of  anappeal on a proper fee.	 The distinction between a tax and afee was considered by this Court in The Commissioner,  HinduReligious  Endowments,	Madras v.  Sri	Lakshmindra  ThirthaSwamiar	 of  Sri  Shirur Mutt(1) and it	 is  unnecessary  torepeat	what  was  said there.	We consider  that  the	feesimposed by r. 59 are for services rendered by a Governmentalagency and though ordinarily fees are uniform, there may  bevarious kinds of fees and it is not possible to formulate  adefinition that would be applicable to all cases.Now,  the last finding of the High Court is that the  noticeunder  s. 12(5) was not in accordance with law.	 Here  againwe  think that the High Court was in error.  The notice	 wasissued	in  Form no.  VI, which is a combined form  for	 thepurposes of ss. 11 and 12.  A foot-note appended to the formrequired  the assessing authority to score  out	 unnecessarywords.	 The High Court points out, that this was not  done.We  are, however, unable to agree with the High	 Court	thatthe  failure to score out unnecessary words made the  noticebad  in law.  The respondent sent a reply to the notice	 andclaimed that it was not a dealer in Orissa.  Obviously,	 therespondent  had	 no  difficulty in  understanding  that	 thenotice was one under s. 12(5) of the Act.  The notice statedin terms that the respondent should show cause why a penaltyshould	not be imposed under s. 12(5) of the  Act.   Section12(5) as it stood at the relevant time was in these terms:"S.  12(5).   If upon information which has  come  into	 hispossession,  the Collector is satisfied that any dealer	 hasbeen  liable  to pay tax under this Act in  respect  of	 anyperiod	and  has nevertheless wilfully failed to  apply	 forregistration, the Collector shall, after giving the dealer areasonable  opportunity of being heard, assess, to the	bestof his judgment, the(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1005.			    727amount	of  tax, if any, due from the dealer in	 respect  ofsuch period and all subsequent periods and the Collector maydirect	that  the dealer shall pay, by way  of	penalty,  inaddition to the amount so assessed, a sum not exceeding	 oneand a half times that amount." It has been argued before  usthat  one  notice  was issued for several  quarters  and  anassessment   was  made	for  each  quarter   separately-fourquarters  on July 4, 1951, and eight quarters on August	 29,1951.  This, it is contended, was illegal.  We are unable toaccept this contention as correct.  Section 12(5) talks of aperiod, and the period may consist of more than one quarter.The  return has, however, to be submitted in Form  IV  whichread  with  r.	20  of the Orissa  Sales  Tax  Rules,  1947,requires the assessee to furnish details of his turnover foreach  quarter.	The assessment must,, therefore, be made  onthe taxable turnover of each quarter.Lastly, it has been argued that there was no notice under s.12(5)  for  the last three quarters and,  there.  fore,	 forthose quarters the assessment orders must be held to be bad.The  appellate authority has pointed out that even  for	 thelast three quarters the assessing officer, after he had madehis  orders  of assessment in the first five  quarters,	 haddirected  the  respondent to produce his  accounts,  but  DOaccounts were produced.	 Section 12(5) enables the assessingauthority  to  make  a best judgment assessment	 for  "	 allsubsequent  periods " after giving the dealer  a  reasonableopportunity  of being heard.  Such an opportunity was  givenin  the	 present  case even in respect	of  the	 last  threequarters, and we are unable to hold that the assessment	 forthe last three quarters was bad.For the reasons given above, we must allow this appeal,	 setaside  the  judgment  and  order of  the  High	Court  datedSeptember  5,  1955, and dismiss the writ  petition  of	 therespondent.  The appellants will be entitled to their  costsof the proceedings in the High Court and in this Court.Appeal allowed,93728