PETITIONER:GHERULAL PARAKH	Vs.RESPONDENT:MAHADEODAS MAIYA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:26/03/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  781		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 406 CITATOR INFO : R	    1965 SC 364	 (238) D	    1974 SC1924	 (30) E	    1975 SC1223	 (6,17) D	    1978 SC 694	 (14,39) C	    1991 SC 101	 (20)ACT:Wager-Collateral contract-Agreement of Partnership  to enterinto  wagering	transactions-Legality-Indian  Contract	Act,1872 (9 of 1872), ss. 23, 30.HEADNOTE:The question for determination in this appeal was whether anagreement  of partnership with the object of  entering	intowagering  transactions was illegal within the meaning of  s.23  Of	the  Indian Contract Act.   The	 appellant  and	 therespondent No. 1 entered into a partnership with the  objectof entering into forward contracts for the purchase and saleof wheat with two other firms and the agreement between themwas  that the respondent would enter into the  contracts  onbehalf	of the partnership and the profit or loss  would  beshared by the parties equally.	The transactions resulted inloss  and the respondent paid the entire amount due  to	 thethird  parties.	 On the appellant denying his liability	 forthe  half  of  the loss, the respondent	 sued  him  for	 therecovery  of the same and his defence, inter alia, was	thatthe  agreement	to  enter into the  wagering  contracts	 wasunlawful  under s. 23 Of the Contract Act.  The trial  Courtdismissed  the	suit.  The High Court on  appeal  held	thatthough	the wagering contracts were void under s. 30 Of	 theIndian	Contract Act, the object of the partnership was	 notunlawful within the meaning of the Act and decreed the suit.It  was	 contended  on behalf of the appellant	(1)  that  awagering contract being void under S.	30  Of the  ContractAct, was also forbidden by law within the407meaning	 of S.23 Of the Act, that (2) the concept of  publicpolicy	 was   very  comprehensive  in	 India	 since	 theindependence,  and such a contract would be  against  publicPolicy,	 (3) that wagering contracts were illegal under	 theHindu  Law  and (4) that they were immoral,  tested  by	 theHindu Law doctrine of pious obligation of sons to  dischargethe father's debts.Held, that the contentions raised were unsustainable in	 lawand must be negatived.Although  a  wagering contract was  void  and  unenforceableunder S. 30 Of the Contract Act, it was not forbidden by lawand  an	 agreement  collateral to such a  contract  was	 notunlawful within the meaning of s. 23 Of the Contract Act.  Apartnership   with  the	 object	 of  carrying  on   wageringtransactions was not, therefore, hit by that section.Pringle v. Jafer Khan, (1883) I.L.R. 5 All. 443, Shibho	 Malv. Lachman Das, 1901) I.L.R. 23 All. 165, Beni Madho Das  v.Kaunsal Kishor Dhusar, (1900) I.L.R. 22 All. 452, Md.  GulamMustafakhan v. Padamsi, A.I.R. (1923) Nag. 48, approved.ThacKer v. Hardy, (1878) L.R. 4 Q.B. 685, Read v.  Anderson,(1882)	L.R. 10 Q.B. 100, Bridger v. Savage, (1885) L.R.  15Q.B. 363, Hyams v. Stuart King, [1908] 2 K.B. 696,  Thwaitesv. Coulthwaite, (1896) 1 Ch. 496, Brookman v. Mather, (1913)29  T.L.R. 276 and Jaffrey & Co. v. Bamford, (1921)  2	K.B.351, Ramloll Thackoorseydass v. Soojumnull Dhondmull, (1848)4   M.l.A.   339,   Doolubdas	Pettamberdass	v.   RamlollThackoorseydass	 and Ors. (1850) 5 M.I.A.  109,	 RaghoonauthShoi  Chotayloll v. Manickchund and Kaisreechund,  (1856)  6M.I.A. 251, referred to.Hill v. William Hill, (1949) 2 All E.R. 452, considered.The doctrine of public policy was only a branch of the	com-mon law and just like its any other branch, it was  governedby  precedents ; its principles had been crystallised  underdifferent heads and though it was permissible to expound andapply them to different situations, it could be applied onlyto  clear  and	undeniable  cases of  harm  to	the  public.Although  theoretically it was permissible to evolve  a	 newhead  of public policy in exceptional cirumstances,  such  acourse would be inadvisable in the interest of stability  ofsociety.Shrinivas  Das Lakshminarayan v. Ram  Chandra  Ramrattandas,I.L.R.	 (1920)	 44  Bom.  6,  Bhagwanti  Genuji  Girme	  v.Gangabisan Ramgopal, I.L.R. 1941 Bom. 71, and Gopi Tihadi v.Gokhei Panda, I.L.R. 1953 Cuttack 558, approved.Egerton	 v.  Brownlow, 4 H.L.C. 1 ; 10 E.R. 359,  Janson  v.Driefontein  Consolidated  Mines,  Ltd.,  (1902)  A.C.	484,Fender v. St.  John-Mildmay, (1938) A.C. :1 and Monkland  v.Jack Barclay Ltd., (1951) 1 All E.R. 714, referred to.Like the common law of England, which did not recognise	 anyprinciple  of  public policy  declaring	 wagering  contractsillegal,  the  Indian  Courts, both  before  and  after	 thepassing of408Act  21 Of 1848 and also after the enactment of	 the  IndianContract  Act, 1872, held that wagering contracts  were	 notillegal	 as being contrary to public policy  and  collateralcontracts in respect of them were enforceable in law.Ramloll	 Thackoorseydass v. Soojumnull Dhondmull,  (1848)  4M.I.A. 339, referred to.Gambling  or  wagering contracts were never declared  to  beillegal	 by  courts  in India as being	contrary  to  publicpolicy as offending the principles of ancient Hindu Law	 andit was not possible to give a novel content to that doctrinein respect of gaming and wagering contracts.The  State  of	Bombay v. R. M.	 D.  Chamaybaugwala,  [1957]S.C.R. 874, considered.The  common  law of England and that of India  never  struckdown  contracts of wager on the ground of public policy	 andsuch  contracts	 had  always been held	not  to	 be  illegalalthough the statute declared them to be void.The  moral prohibitions in Hindu Law texts against  gamblingwere  not  legally enforced but were allowed  to  fall	intodesuetude and it was not possible to hold that there was anydefinite  head	or  principle of public	 policy	 evolved  bycourts	or  laid down by precedents directly  applicable  towagering contracts.There  was  neither any authority nor any  legal  basis	 forimporting  the doctrine of Hindu Law relating to  the  piousobligation  of	sons  to  pay the  father's  debt  into	 thedominion of' contracts.	 Section 23 Of the Contract Act	 wasinspired  by  the  common  law	of  England  and  should  beconstrued in that light.'The  word " immoral " was very comprehensive and varying  inits  contents and no universal standard could be laid  down.Any law, therefore, based on such fluid concept would defeatits purpose.  The provisions of S. 23 of the Indian ContractAct  indicated	that the Legislature intended to  give	thatword a restricted meaning.  The limitation imposed on it  bythe  expression " the Court regards it as immoral "  clearlyindicated  that it was also a branch of the common  law	 andshould, therefore, be confined to principles recognised	 andsettled by courts. judicial decisions confined it to  sexualimmorality,  and wager could not be brought in as  new	headwithin its fold.JUDGMENT:    CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  215  of1955.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 1, 1953,  ofthe  Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Original Decree	 No.89  of 1946, arising, out of the judgment and  decree  datedDecember  4, 1945, of the Subordinate Judge, Darjeeling,  inMoney Suit No. 5 of 1940.409L.   K. Jha and D. N. Mukherjee, for the appellant.C.   B.	 Aggarwala,  K.	 B. Bagchi and	Sukumar	 Ghosh,	 forRespondents Nos.  1 to 5.1959.  March 26.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySUBBA RAO, J.-This appeal filed against the judgment of	 theHigh Court of Judicature at Calcutta raises the question  ofthe  legality  of  a partnership to  carry  on	business  inwagering contracts.The facts lie in a small compass.  They, omitting those	 notgermane	 to the controversy before us, are as  follows:	 Theappellant,  Gherulal  Parakh,  and  the	 first	 respondent,Mahadeodas  Maiya,  managers of two joint  families  enteredinto  a partnership to carry on wagering contracts with	 twofirms  of Hapur, namely, Messrs.  Mulchand  Gulzarimull	 andBaldeosahay  Surajmull.	 It was agreed between the  partnersthat  the  said contracts would be made in the name  of	 therespondents  on behalf of the firm and that the	 profit	 andloss resulting from the transactions would be borne by	themin  equal shares.  In implementation of the said  agreement,the first respondent entered into 32 contracts with Mulchandand 49 contracts with Baldeosahay and the nett result of allthese  transactions  was a loss, with the  result  that	 thefirst  respondent  had	to pay to the  Hapur  merchants	 theentire	amount	due to them.  As the  appellant	 denied	 hisliability  to  bear  his  share	 of  the  loss,	 'the  firstrespondent  along 'With his sons filed O. S. No. 18 of	1937in  the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Darjeeling, for	 therecovery  of half of the loss incurred in  the	transactionswith Mulchand.	In the plaint he reserved his right to claimany further amount in respect of transactions with  Mulchandthat  might  be	 found due to him after	 the  accounts	werefinally	 settled  with	him.   That  suit  was	referred  toarbitration  and on the basis of the award, the	 SubordinateJudge  made a decree in favour of the first  respondent	 andhis  sons for a sum of Rs. 3,375.  After the final  accountswere  settled  between	the first  respondent  and  the	 twomerchants of Hapur and after52410the  amounts  due to them were paid,  the  first  respondentinstituted  a suit, out of which the present appeal  arises,in  the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Darjeeling, for	 therecovery  of  a	 sum of Rs.  5,300  with  interest  thereon.Subsequently  the  plaint  was amended and  by	the  amendedplaint	the  respondents asked for the same  relief  on	 thebasis  that the firm had been dissolved.  The appellant	 andhis sons, inter alia, pleaded in defence that the  agreementbetween	 the  parties to enter into wagering  contracts	 wasunlawful  under	 s.  23 of the Contract	 Act,  that  as	 thepartnership was not registered, the suit was barred under s.69(1) of the Partnership Act and that in any event the	suitwas  barred  under  S.	2,  Rule 2  of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure.   The  learned Subordinate Judge found  that	 theagreement  between  the parties was to enter  into  wageringcontracts depending upon the rise and fall of the market andthat  the  said agreement was void as the  said	 object	 wasforbidden  by  law and opposed to public  policy.   He	alsofound  that  the claim in respect of the  transactions	withMulchand  so far as it was not included in the earlier	suitwas not barred under s. 2, Rule 2, Code of Civil  Procedure,as the cause of action in respect of that part of the  claimdid  not  arise	 at the time the said suit  was	 filed.	  Hefurther found that the partnership was between the two jointfamilies   of  the  appellant  and  the	  first	  respondentrespectively,  that  there  could  not	be  in	law  such  apartnership and that therefore s. 69 of the Partnership	 Actwas  not applicable.  In the result, he dismissed  the	suitwith costs.On  appeal, the learned Judges of the High Court  held	thatthe  partnership was not between the two joint families	 butwas  only between the two managers of the said families	 andtherefore it was valid.	 They found that the' partnership todo  business was only for a single venture with each one  ofthe two merchants of Hapur and for a single season and	thatthe said partnership was dissolved after the season was overand  therefore the suit for accounts of the  dissolved	firmwas not- hit by the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) ofs. 69 of the Partnership Act.411They  further found that the object of the partnere  was  todeal  in differences and that though the said  transactions,being  in the nature of wager, were void under s. 30 of	 theIndian Contract Act, the object was not unlawful within	 themeaning of s. 23 of the said Act.In regard to the claim, the learned Judges found that  therewas  no satisfactory evidence as regards the payment by	 thefirst  respondent  on  account	of  loss  incurred  in	 thecontracts with Mulchand but it was established that he	paida  sum	of  Rs. 7,615 on account of loss  in  the  contractsentered	 into  with Baldeosahay.  In the  result,  the	HighCourt gave a decree to the first respondent for a sum of Rs.3,807-8-0  and	disallowed interest thereon for	 the  reasonthat  as  the suit in substance was one for  accounts  of  adissolved firm, there was no liability in the  circumstancesof the case to pay interest.  In the result, the 'High Courtgave a decree in favour of the first respondent for the saidamount	together with another small item and  dismissed	 thesuit  as  regards  " the plaintiffs  other  than  the  firstrespondent and the defendants other than the appellant ".Before we consider the questions of law raised in the  case,it  would  -be	convenient  at	the  outset  to	 dispose  ofquestions  of  fact  raised by either  party.	The  learnedCounsel	 for the appellant contends that the finding of	 thelearned Judges of the High Court that the partnership  stooddissolved after the season was over was not supported by thepleadings  or  the  evidence adduced in the  case.   In	 theplaint	as  originally drafted and presented to	 the  Court,there was no express reference to the fact that the businesswas  dissolved and no relief was asked for accounts' of	 thedissolved  firm.  But the plaint discloses that the  partiesjointly	 entered into contracts with two  merchants  betweenMarch  23,  1937,  and June 17, 1937,  that  the  plaintiffsobtained  complete  accounts  of  profit  and  loss  on	 theaforesaid  transactions from the said merchants	 after	June17, 1937, that they issued a notice to the defendants to paythem  a	 sum  of  Rs. 4,146-4-3, being	half  of  the  totalpayments made by them on account of412the  said  contracts and that the  defendants  denied  theirliability.   The  suit was filed for recovery  of  the	saidamount.	 The defendant filed a written-statement on June 12,1940,  but  did	 not raise the plea based on s.	 69  of	 thePartnership  Act.  He filed an additional  written-statementon  November  9,  1941,	 expressly  setting  up	 the   plea.Thereafter  the plaintiffs prayed for the amendment of	the,plaint	by adding the following to the plaint  as  paragraph10:" That even Section 69 of the Indian Partnership Act is	 nota bar to the present suit as the joint business referred  toabove  was dissolved and in this suit the Court is  requiredonly to go into the accounts of 'the said joint business ".On August 14, 1942, the defendant filed a further additionalwritten-statement alleging that the allegations in paragraph2  were	 not  true  and	 that as  no  date  of	the  allegeddissolution   had   been  mentioned  in	 the   plaint,	 theplaintiffs'  case based on the said alleged dissolution	 wasnot  maintainable.   It	 would be seen	from  the  aforesaidpleadings  that though an express allegation of the fact  ofdissolution of the partnership was only made by an amendmenton  November  17, 1941, the plaint as  originally  presentedcontained  all	the  facts sustaining the  said	 plea.	 Thedefendants  in their written-statement, inter  alia,  deniedthat  there  was  any  partnership  to	enter  into  forwardcontracts  with	 the said two merchants and  that  thereforeconsistent  with their case they did not  specifically	denythe  said  facts.  The said facts, except in regard  to	 thequestion  whether  the	partnership  was  between  the	 twofamilies or only between the two managers of the families onwhich there was difference of view between the Court of	 theSubordinate  Judge  and the High  Court,  were	concurrentlyfound by both the Courts.  It follows from the said findingsthat  the  partnership	was  only  in  respect	of   forwardcontracts   with  two  specified  individuals  and   for   aparticular  season.  But it is said that the  said  findingswere not based on any evidence in the case.  It is true thatthe  documents did not clearly indicate any period  limitingthe  operation	of the partnership, but	 from  the  attitudeadopted by the413defendants  in the earlier suit ending in an award and	thatadopted	 in  the  present  pleadings,  the  nature  of	 thetransactions  and  the	conduct of  the	 parties,  no  otherconclusion  was-possible  than that arrived at by  the	HighCourt.	If so, s. 42 of the Partnership Act directly appliesto  this  case.	  Under that section in	 the  absence  of  acontract  to  the contrary, a firm is dissolved,  if  it  isconstituted   to  carry	 out  one  or  more  adventures	  orundertakings,  by  completion thereof.	In  this  case,	 thepartnership  was  constituted to carry	out  contracts	withspecified persons during a particular season and as the saidcontracts were closed, the partnership was dissolved.At this stage a point raised by the learned Counsel for	 therespondents  may conveniently be disposed of.	The  learnedCounsel contends that neither the learned Subordinate  Judgenor  the  learned Judges of the High Court  found  that	 thefirst respondent entered into any wagering transactions witheither	of  the	 two merchants of  Hapur  and  therefore  noquestion of illegality arises in this case.  The law on	 thesubject is wellsettled and does not call for any citation ofcases.	 To  constitute a wagering contract  there  must  beproof that the contract was entered into upon terms that theperformance of the contract should not be demanded, but onlythe  difference in prices should be paid.  There  should  becommon intention between the parties to the wager that	theyshould not demand delivery of the goods but should take onlythe  difference	 in  prices on the happening  of  an  event.Relying	 upon the said legal position, it is contended	thatthere is no evidence in the case to establish that there wasa  common  intention between the first	respondent  and	 theHapur merchants not to take delivery of possession but	onlyto gamble in difference in prices.  This argument, if we maysay so, is not really germane to the question raised in thiscase.	The  suit  was filed on the  basis  of	a  dissolvedpartnership for accounts.  The defendants contended that theobject	 of  the  partnership  was  to	carry  on   wageringtransactions,  i. e., only to gamble in differences  withoutany  intention	to  give or take  delivery  of	goods.	 TheCourts, on the evidence, both414direct	and circumstantial, came to the conclusion that	 thepartnership  agreement was entered into with the  object  ofcarrying  on  wagering	transactions wherein  there  was  nointention  to ask for-or to take delivery of goods but	onlyto  deal with differences.  That is a concurrent finding  offact,  and, following the usual practice of this  Court,  wemust  accept it.  We, therefore, proceed on the	 basis	thatthe  appellant	and  the first	respondent  entered  into  apartnership  for carrying on wagering transactions  and	 theclaim related only to the loss incurred in respect of  thosetransactions.Now  we come to the main and substantial point in the  case.The problem presented, with its different facets, is whetherthe  said  agreement of partnership is unlawful	 within	 themeaning of s. 23 of the Indian Contract Act.  Section 23  ofthe said Act, omitting portions unnecessary for the  presentpurpose, reads as follows :"  The	consideration or object of an agreement	 is  lawful,unless-it is forbidden by law, orthe  Court  regards  it as immoral,  or	 opposed  to  publicpolicy.In  each of these cases, the consideration or object  of  anagreement is said to be unlawful.  Every agreement of  whichthe object or consideration is unlawful is void."Under  this section, the object of an agreement, whether  itis  of	partnership  or	 otherwise, is	unlawful  if  it  isforbidden  by  law  or the Court regards it  as	 immoral  oropposed	 to  public policy and in such cases  the  agreementitself is void.The learned Counsel for the appellant advances his  argumentunder  three sub-heads: (i) the object is forbidden by	law,(ii)  it  is  opposed  to public policy,  and  (iii)  it  isimmoral.  We shall consider each one of them separately.Re.  (i)--forbidden  by	 law:  Under s.	 30  of	 the  IndianContract  Act, agreements by way of wager are void;  and  nosuit shall be brought for recovering anything415alleged	 to be won on any wager, or entrusted to any  personto abide the result of any game or other uncertain event  onwhich any wager is made.  Sir William Anson's definition  of"  wager " as a promise to give money or money's worth	uponthe  determination  or ascertainment of an  uncertain  eventaccurately brings out the concept of wager declared void  bys. 30 of the Contract Act.  As a contract which provides forpayment	 of  differences only without any intention  on	 thepart  of either of the parties to give or take	delivery  ofthe goods is admittedly a wager within the meaning of s.  30of   the  Contract  Act,  the  argument	 proceeds,  such   atransaction,  being  void under the said  section,  is	alsoforbidden by law within the meaning of s. 23 of the ContractAct.  The question, shortly stated, is whether what is	voidcan be equated with what is forbidden by law.  This argumentis not a new one, but has been raised in England as well  asin  India and has uniformly been rejected.  In	England	 thelaw  relating to gaming and wagering contracts is  containedin  the	 Gaming	 Acts of 1845 and 1892.	  As  the  decisionsturned	upon  the relevant provisions of the said  Acts,  itwould  help  to	 appreciate  them  better  if  the  relevantsections of the two Acts were read at this stage:Section 18 of the Gaming Act, 1845:" Contracts by way of gaming to be void, and wagers or	sumsdeposited  with stakeholders not to be recoverable  at	law-Saving	for  subscriptions for	prizes.................	 Allcontracts or agreements, whether by parole or in writing, byway  of	 gaming	 or  wagering,	shall  be  null	 and   void;and.........  no suit shall be brought or maintained in	 anycourt  of law and equity for recovering any sum of money  orvaluable  thing alleged to be won upon any wager,  or  whichshall  have  been deposited in the hands of  any  person  toabide-the  event  on which any wager shall have	 been  made:Provided always, that this enactment shall not be deemed  toapply  to any subscription or contribution, or agreement  tosubscribe or contribute, for or towards any plate, prize  orsum of money to be awarded -to the winner or winners of	 anylawful game, sport, pastime or exercise."416Section 1 of the Gaming Act, 1892:" Promises to repay sums paid under contracts void by 8 &  9Viet.  c  109 to be null and void.-Any promise,	 express  orimplied,  to  pay any person any sum of money  paid  by	 himunder  or in respect of any contract or	 agreement  renderednull and void by the Gaming Act, 1845, or to pay any sum  ofmoney  by  way of commission, fee, reward, or  otherwise  inrespect of any such contract, or of any services in relationthereto	 or in connexion therewith, shall be null and  void,and no action shall be brought or maintained to recover	 anysuch sum of money."While the Act of 1845 declared all kinds of wagers or  gamesnull  and void, it only prohibited the recovery of money  orvaluable  thing	 won  upon  any	 wager	or  desposited	withstakeholders.	On the other hand, the Act of  1892  furtherdeclared  that moneys paid under or in respect	of  wageringcontracts dealt with by the Act of 1845 are not	 recoverableand  no commission or reward in respect of any wager can  beclaimed	 in  a	court of law by agents employed	 to  bet  onbehalf	of  their principals.  The law of England  till	 thepassing	 of the Act of 1892 was analogous to that  in  Indiaand  the  English  law on the subject  governing  a  similarsituation  would  be of considerable help  in  deciding	 thepresent	 case.	 Sir William Anson in his book " On  Law  ofContracts " succinctly states the legal position thus,at page 205:"................  the	law may either	actually  forbid  anagreement  to  be made, or it may merely say that if  it  ismade the Courts will not enforce it.  In the former case  itis illegal, in the latter only void; but inasmuch as illegalcontracts  are	also  void, though void	 contracts  are	 notnecessarily  illegal, the distinction is for  most  purposesnot  important, and even judges seem sometimes to treat	 thetwo terms as inter- changeable."The  learned  author  proceeds to  apply  the  said  generalprinciples to wagers and observes, at page 212, thus:"Wagers 'beidg only void, no taint of illegality attached toa transaction, whereby one man employed another to make betsfor him; the ordinary rules which417govern the relation of employer and employed applied in sucha case."Pollock	 and Mulla in their book on Indian  Contract  definethe phrase ',forbidden by law " in s. 23 thus, at page 158:"An  act or undertaking is equally forbidden by law  whetherit violates a prohibitory enactment of the Legislature or  aprinciple  of  unwritten  law.	 But  in  India,  where	 thecriminal  law  is  codified,  acts  forbidden  by  law	seempractically  to consist of acts punishable under  the  PenalCode  and of acts prohibited by special legislation,  or  byregulations or orders made under authority derived from	 theLegislature."Some of the decisions, both English and Indian, cited at theBar which bring out the distinction between a contract whichis  forbidden  by  law and that which is  void	may  now  benoticed.  In Thacker v. Hardy (1), the plaintiff, a  broker,who was employed by the defendant to speculate for him	uponthe stock Exchange, entered into contracts on behalf of	 thedefendant  with a third party upon which he (the  plaintiff)became	personally  liable.   He  sued	the  defendant	 forindemnity  against  the liability incurred by  him  and	 forcommission as broker.  The Court held that the plaintiff wasentitled to recover notwithstanding the provisions of 8 &  9Viet.  c. 109, s. 18 (English Gaming Act,  1845).   Lindley,J., observed at page 687:"  Now, if gaming and wagering were illegal, I should be  ofopinion that the illegality of the transactions in which theplaintiff and the defendant were engaged would have tainted,as  between themselves, whatever the plaintiff had  done  infutherance   of	 their	illegal	 designs,  and	would	haveprecluded  him	from  claiming,	 in  a	court  of  law,	 anyindemnity  from the defendant in respect of the	 liabilitieshe  had	 incurred:  Cannan  v. Bryce  (3  B.  &	 Ald.  179);McKinnell  v. Robinson (3 M. & W. 434); Lyne v. Siesfeld  (1H. & N. 278).  But it has been held that although gaming andwagering contracts cannot be enforced, they are(1)  (1878) L.R. 4 Q.B. 685.53418not  illegal.	Fitch v. Jones (5 E. & B. 238) is  plain  tothat  effect.	Money paid in discharge of a bet is  a	goodconsideration for a bill of exchange: Oulds v. Harrison	 (10Ex.  572);  and if money be so paid by a  plaintiff  at	 therequest	 of  a	defendant, it can  be  recovered  by  actionagainst him : Knight v. Camber (15 C.B. 562);	Jessopp	  v.Lutwyoho (10 Ex. 614); Rosewarne v.	Billing	 (15  C.  B.(N.   S.) 316); and it has been held that a request  to	 paymay be inferred from an authority to bet: Oldham v.  Ramsden(44 L. J. (C.  P.) 309).  Having regard to these  decisions,I  cannot hold that the statute above referred to  precludesthe plaintiff from maintaining this action."In Read v. Anderson.(1) where an agent was employed to	makea bet in his own name on behalf of his principal, a  similarquestion  arose for consideration.  Hawkins, J., states	 thelegal position at page 104 :"  At  common law wagers were not illegal,  and	 before	 thepassing	 of  8	& 9 Vict. c.  109  actions  were  constantlybrought and maintained to recover money won upon them.	 Theobject	of  8 & 9 Viet. c. 109 (passed in 1845) was  not  torender illegal wagers which up to that time had been lawful,but  simply  to make the law no longer available  for  theirenforcement, leaving the parties to them to pay them or	 notas their sense of honour might dictate."After  citing  the  provisions of s. 18	 of  that  Act,	 thelearned Judge proceeds to observe thus, at page 105 :"  There is nothing in this language to affect the  legalityof  wagering  contracts, they are simply rendered  null	 andvoid; and not enforceable by any process of law.  A host  ofauthorities  have settled this to be the true effect of	 theStatute."This  judgment	of  Hawkins, J.,  was  confirmed  on  appeal(reported  in  13 Q. B. 779) on the ground that	 the  agencybecame	irrevocable on the making of the bet.  The  judgmentof  the Court of Appeal cannot be considered to be a  directdecision  on the point.	 The said principle was affirmed  bythe  Court of Appeal again in Bridger v. Savage (2).   Therethe plaintiff sued his(1) (1882) L.R. 10 Q.B. 100.(2) (1885) L.R. 15 Q.B. 363.419agent  for  the	 amount received by him in  respect  of	 thewinnings  from the persons with whom the agent	had  betted.Brett, M. R., observed at page 366 :"............  the  defendant has received  money  which  hecontracted  with the plaintiff to hand over  to him when  hehad  received it.  That is a perfectly legal contract ;	 butfor the defendant it has been contended that the statute 8 &9  Vict.  c. 109, s. 18, makes that contract  illegal.	 Theanswer	is  that it has been held by the Courts	 on  severaloccasions  that	 the statute applies only  to  the  originalcontract -made between the persons betting, and not to	sucha  contract  as	 was made here	between	 the  plaintiff	 anddefendant."Bowen, L. J., says much to the same effect at page 367:"Now with respect to the principle involved in this case, itis  to be observed that the original contract of betting  isnot  an	 illegal one, but only one which is  void.   If	 theperson	who has betted pays his bet, he does nothing  wrong;he only waives a benefit which the statute has given to him,and Confers a good title to the money on the person to	whomhe pays it.  Therefore when the bet is paid the	 transactionis  completed, and when it is paid to an agent it cannot  becontended  that	 it  is not a good  payment  for  his  prin-cipal............  So  much, therefore,	 for  the  principlegoverning  this case.  As to the authorities, the  cases  ofSharp v. Taylor (2 Phil. 801), Johnson v. Lansley (12 C.  B.468), and Beeston v. Beeston (I Ex.  D. 13), all go to	shewthat this action is maintainable, and the only authority theother  way is that of Beyer v. Adams (26 L. J.	(Ch.)  841),and  that  case cannot be supported, and is not	 law."	Thiscase  lays  down the correct principle and is  supported  byearlier	  authorities.	  The  decision	 in   Partridge	  v.Mallandaine  (1)  is to the effect  that  persons  receivingprofits	 from betting systematically carried on by them	 arechargeable with income-tax on such profits in respect of a "vocation  "  under 5 & 6 Vict. c. 35 (the  Income  Tax	Act)Schedule D. Hawkins, J., rejecting the argument that the(1)  (1887) L.R. 18 Q.B. 276.420profession of bookmakers is not a calling within the meaningof the Income Tax Act, makes the following observations,  atpage 278:"Mere betting is not illegal.  It is perfectly lawful for  aman to bet if he likes.	 He may, however, have a  difficultyin getting the amount of the bets from dishonest persons whomake bets and will not pay."The  decision  in Hyams v. Stuart King (1)  deals  with	 theproblem of the legality of a fresh agreement between partiesto  a  wager for consideration.	 There, two  bookmakers	 hadbetting	  transactions	together,  which  resulted  in	 thedefendant  giving the plaintiff a cheque for the  amount  ofbets  lost  to him.  At the request of	the  defendant,	 thecheque	was held over by the plaintiff for a time, and	partof  the	 amount	 of the cheque was paid	 by  the  defendant.Subsequently  a fresh verbal agreement was come	 to  betweenthe  parties,  by which, in consideration of  the  plaintiffholding	 over the cheque for a further time  and  refrainingfrom  declaring	 the  defendant	 a  defaulter  and   therebyinjuring  him with his customers, the defendant promised  topay the balance owing in a few days.  The balance was  neverpaid and the plaintiff filed a suit to recover the money  onthe  basis  of	the fresh verbal agreement.   The  Court  ofAppeal, by a majority, Fletcher Moulton, L. J.,	 dissenting,held  that the fresh verbal agreement was supported by	goodconsideration  and therefore the plaintiff was	entitled  torecover	 the  amount due to him.  At page  705,	 Sir  GorellBarnes posed the following three questions to be decided  inthe case: (1) Whether the new contract was itself one  whichfalls  within the provisions of 8 & 9 Vict. c. 109,  s.	 18;(2)   whether  there  was  any	illegality  affecting	thatcontract;  and	(3)  whether  that  contract  was  a  lawfulcontract  founded on good consideration.  Adverting  to	 thesecond question, which is relevant to the present case,	 thePresident made the following observations at page 707:"............... it is to be observed that there was nothingillegal in the strict sense in making the bets.(1)  [1908] 2 K.B. 696.421They  were merely void under 8 & 9 Vict. c. 109,  and  therewould  have been no illegality in paying them.	There is  nodoubt  whatever about this.  There was also nothing  illegalin  giving  the	 cheque	 nor  would  there  have  been	 anyillegality  in	paying it, though the defendants  could	 nothave  been compelled by the plaintiff to pay it, because  bystatute it was to be deemed and taken to have been made	 andgiven  for an illegal consideration, and therefore  void  inthe hands of the plaintiff........ The statutes do not	makethe  giving or paying of the cheque illegal, and  impose  nopenalty	 for  so doing.	 Their effect and  intention  appearonly,  so  far as material, to be that	gaming	or  wageringcontracts   cannot  be	enforced  in  a	 Court	of  Law	  orEquity..............."The view expressed by the President is therefore  consistentwith  the view all along accepted by the Courts in  England.This   case  raised  a	now  problem,  namely,	 whether   asubstituted  agreement	for consideration between  the	sameparties	 to  the wager could be enforced, and  the  majorityheld  that it could be enforced, while Fletcher Moulton,  L.J., recorded his dissent.  We shall have occasion to  noticethe  dissenting view of Fletcher Moulton, L. J., at a  laterstage.	 The aforesaid decisions establish  the	 propositionthat in England a clear distinction is maintained between  acontract which is void and that which is illegal and it	 hasbeen  held  that  though a wagering  contract  is  void	 andunenforceable  between	parties,  it  is  not  illegal	 andtherefore  it does not affect the validity of  a  collateralcontract.'The same principle has been applied to collateral contractsof  partnership	 also.	In Thwaites v. Coulthwaite  (1)	 thequestion  of  legality of a partnership	 of  bookmaking	 andbetting was raised.  There the plaintiff and defendant	werepartners  in  a-bookmakers and betting business,  which	 wascarried	 on  by	 the defendant;	 the  plaintiff	 claimed  anaccount of the profits of the partnership, and the defendantcontended that, having regard to the nature of the business,no such relief could be obtained.  Chitty, J., rejected the(1)  (1896) 1 Ch. 496.422plea  holding  that  the  partnership  was  valid,  for	 thefollowing reasons, among others, and stated at page 498: -"  The Gaming Act, 1845 (8 & 9 Vict. c. 109), did  not	makebetting	 illegal;  this statute, as is	well  known,  merelyavoided the wagering contract.	A man may make a single	 betor  many  bets;	 he may habitually bet; he may	carry  on  abetting or bookmakers business within the statute,  providedthe  business as carried on by him does not fall within	 theprohibition of the Betting Act, 1853."In  Thomas v. Day (1), a similar question arose.  There	 theplaintiff   claimed  an	 account  and  money  due  under   apartnership which he alleged had existed between himself andthe  defendant	to  take an office and carry  on  a  bettingbusiness   as	bookmakers.   Darling,	J.,  held   that   apartnership to carry on the business of a bookmaker was	 notrecognized  by	law,  that even if there was  such  a  legalpartnership, an action for account would not lie as  betweenthe   two  bookmakers  founded	on  betting   and   gamblingtransactions.	 This	judgment  certainly   supports	 theappellant; but the learned Judge did not take notice of	 theprevious   decision  on	 the  subject  and  the	  subsequentdecisions  have not followed it.  When a  similar  objectionwas  raised in Brookman v. Mather (2), Avery,  J.,  rejectedthe  plea  and gave a decree to the  plaintiff.	  There	 theplaintiff  and the defendant entered into a  partnership  tocarry on a betting business.  Two years thereafter, in 1910,the partnership was dissolved and a certain amount was founddue to the plaintiff from the defend ant and the latter gavethe  former a promissory note for that amount.	A  suit	 wasfiled  for  the	 recovery of the amount	 payable  under	 thepromissory  note.  Avery, J., reiterated the principle	thatbetting was not illegal per se.	 When the decision in Thomasv.  Day(1) was cited in support of the broad principle	thatthe  betting business could not be recognized as legal in  aCourt  of Justice, the learned Judge pointed out  that	thatcase was decided without reference to Thwaites(1)  (1908) 24 T.L.R. 272.(2)  (1913) 29 T.L.R. 276.423v.   Coulthwaite  (1).	This judgment, therefore,  correctedthe deviation made by Darling, J., in Thomas v. Day(2 )	 andput the case law in line with earlier precedents.The earlier view was again accepted and followed in Keen  v.Price  (3)  where  an action by one of	the  partners  in  abookmakers  and	 betting business against the other  for  anaccount	 of the partnership dealings was  entertained.	 Butthe  Court  gave  liberty  to the  defendant  to  object  torepaying   anything  which  represented	 profits   in	suchbusiness.  The reason for this apparent conflict between thetwo  parts of the decision is found in the express terms  ofthe  provisions of the Gaming Act of 1892.  Commenting	uponThwaites  v. Coulthwaite (1) in which Chitty, J., held	thatsuch  an action would lie for an account of the	 profits  ofthe partnership, Sargant, J., pointed out that in that	casethe Gaming Act, 1892, was not referred to.  At page 101, thelearned Judge says:"  Curiously enough, in that case the Gaming Act, 1892,	 wasnot referred to, and although the decision is a good one  onthe general law, it cannot be regarded as a decision on	 theAct of 1892."This  judgment	confirms the principle that a wager  is	 notillegal, but states that after the Gaming Act, 1892, a claimin respect of that amount even under a collateral  agreementis not maintainable.In  O'Connor and Ould v. Ralston (4), the plaintiff, a	firmof bookmakers, filed a suit claiming from the defendant	 theamount of five cheques drawn by him upon his bank in paymentof  bets  which	 he  had lost to them  and  which  had	beendishonoured on presentation.  Darling, J., held that as	 theplaintiffs formed an association for the purpose of carryingon a betting business, the action would not lie.  In  comingto  that  conclusion  the  learned  Judge  relied  upon	 thedissenting  view  of Fletcher Moulton, L. J.,  in  Hyams  v.Stuart	King  We  shall consider that decision	at  a  laterstage.(1) (1896) 1 Ch. 496.	    (2) (1908) 24 T.L.R. 272.(3) (1914) 2 Ch. 98.	   (4) (1920) 3 K.B. 451.(5)  [1908] 2 K.B. 696.424The opinion of Darling, J., was not accepted in Jeffrey	 Co.v. Bamford (1) wherein McCardie, J., held that a partnershipfor  the  purpose of carrying on a  betting  and  bookmakersbusiness  is not per se illegal or impossible in  law.	 Thelearned Judge says at page 356:"............  betting or wagering is not illegal at  commonlaw...... .It  has	 been repeatedly pointed out that  mere	 betting  onhorse races is not illegal ".The  learned  Judge, after noticing  the  earlier  decisionsalready	 considered by us and also some of the	observationsof Fletcher Moulton, L. J., came to the conclusion that	 thepartnership was not illegal.We shall now scrutinize the decision in Hill v. William Hill(I) to see whether there is any substance in the argument ofthe  learned  Counsel for the appellant that  this  decisionaccepted the dissenting view of Fletcher Moulton, L. J.,  inHyams  v.  Stuart King (3) or the view of  Darling,  J.,  inThomas v. Day (4) and O'Connor and Ould v. Ralston (5).	 Thefacts	in  that  case	were:  The  appellant  had   bettingtransactions with the respondents, a firm of bookmakers.  Asa  result  of those transactions, the appellant	 lost  pound3,635-12-6.  As the appellant was unable to pay the  amount,the matter was referred to the committee of Tattersalls, whodecided that the appellant should pay the respondents a	 sumof  pound 635-12-6 within fourteen days and the	 balance  bymonthly instalments of pound 100.  It was laid down that  ifthe  appellant failed to make those payments, he was  liableto  be reported to the said committee which would result  inhis   being  warned  off  Newmarket  Heath  and	 posted	  asdefaulters  The appellant informed the respondents  that  hewas  unable to pay the pound 635-12-6 within the  prescribedtime  and offered to send them a cheque for that  sum  post-dated  October 10, 1946, and to pay the monthly	 instalmentsof  pound  100 thereafter.  On the respondents	agreeing  tothat course, the appellant sent a post-dated cheque to(1) (1921) 2 K.B. 351.	       (2) (1949) 2 All E.R. 452.(3) [1908] 2 K.B. 696.	       (4) (1908) 24 T.L.R. 272.(5)  (1920) 3 K.B. 451.425them and also enclosed a letter agreeing- to pay the monthlyinstalments.   As the post-dated cheque was dishonoured	 andthe   appellant	 failed	 to  pay  the  entire  amount,	 therespondents  filed  a suit claiming the amount due  to	themunder  the subsequent agreement.  The respondents  contendedthat the sum the appellant had promised to pay was not moneywon upon a wager within the meaning of the second branch  ofs. 18, but was money due under a new lawful and	 enforceableagreement and that even if the sum was to be regarded as wonon  a  wager,  the agreement was outside the  scope  of	 thesecond	branch of s. 18 of the Gaming Act, 1845.  The  Houseof  Lords  by a majority of 4 to 3 held that  the  agreementcontained  a new promise to pay money won upon a  wager	 andthat the second branch of s. 18 applied to all suits broughtto  recover  money alleged to have been won on a  wager	 andtherefore the contract was unenforceable.  In coming to thatconclusion, Viscount Simon, one of the Judges who  expressedthe  majority view, agreed with Fletcher Moulton, L. J.,  inholding that the bond constituted an agreement to pay  moneywon upon a wager, notwithstanding the new consideration, andwas thus unenforceable under the second limb of s. 18.In  Hyams  v.  Stuart King(1), the facts of  which  we	havealready	 given,	 the  suit  was filed  on  the	basis  of  asubsequent agreement between the same parties to the  wager.The  majority  of  the	Judges	held  that  the	  subsequentagreement   was	 supported  by	good  consideration,   whileFletcher  Moulton,  L. J., dissented from  that	 view.	 Thebasis  for the dissenting view is found at page 712.   Afterreading	 s.  18 of the Gaming Act, 1845, the  learned  Judgeproceeded to state:"  In my opinion too little attention has been paid  to	 thedistinction between the two parts of this enactment, and thesecond	part  has been treated as being in effect  merely  arepetition  of	the  first part.  I cannot  accept  such  aninterpretation.	  So far as the actual wagering contract  isconcerned,  the earlier provision is ample.  It	 makes	thatcontract absolutely void,(1)  [1908] 2 K.B. 696.54426and  it	 would	be idle to enact in addition  that  no	suitshould	be  brought  upon  a contract  that  had  thus	beenrendered  void	by  statute.   The  language  of  the  laterprovision  is  in my opinion much wider.  It  provides	withcomplete  generality  that  no action shall  be	 brought  torecover	 anything alleged to be won upon any wager,  withoutin any way limiting the application of the provision to	 thewagering contract -itself.  In other words, it provides thatwherever the obligation under a contract is or includes	 thepayment	 of money won upon a wager, the Courts shall not  beused  to  enforce  the	performance  of	 that  part  of	 theobligation ".These observations must be understood in the context of	 thepeculiar  facts	 of  that case.	 The suit  was	between	 theparties	 to the wager.	The question was whether the  secondpart  of the concerned section was comprehensive  enough  totake  in an agreement to recover the money won upon a  wagerwithin	the meaning of that part.  Fletcher Moulton, L.	 J.,held that the second part was wide and comprehensive  enoughto  take  in such a claim, for the suit was, though  on	 thebasis  of a substituted agreement, for the recovery  of	 themoney  won upon a wager within the meaning of the  words  ofthat part of the section.  The second question considered bythe learned Judge was whether the defendants' firm which wasan association formed for the purpose of a betting  businesswas a legal partnership under the English Law.	The  learnedJudge  relied upon the Gaming Act. 1892 in holding  that  itwas  not  possible under the English law to  have  any	suchpartnership.  At page 718, the learned Judge observed :In my opinion no such partnership is -possible under Englishlaw.  Without considering any other grounds of objection  toits existence, the language of the Gaming Act, 1892, appearsto me to be sufficient to establish this proposition.  It isessential to the idea of a partnership that each partner  isan agent. of the partnership and (subject to the  provisionsof  the partnership deed) has authority to make payments  onits  behalf  for  partnership  purposes,  for  which  he  isentitled427to  claim  credit  in  the  partnership	 accounts  and	thusreceive,  directly  or indirectly, repayment.	But  by	 theGaming Act, 1892, all promises to pay any person any sum  ofmoney paid by him in respect of a wagering contract are nulland  void.   These  words are wide  enough  to	nullify	 thefundamental   contract	which  must  be	 the  basis   of   apartnership, and therefore in my opinion no such partnershipis  possible,  and  the action for  this  reason  alone	 waswrongly framed and should have been dismissed with costs ".It  would be seen from the said observations  that  FletcherMoulton,  L. J., laid down two propositions: (i) The  secondpart  of  s. 18 of the Gaming Act, 1845,  was  comprehensiveenough to take in a claim for the recovery of money  allegedto be won upon a wager though the said claim was based	upona substituted contract between the same parties; and (ii) byreason	of the wide terms of the Gaming Act, 1892, even	 thefundamental contract, which was the basis of a	partnership,was  itself  a nullity.	 The learned Lord  Justice  did	 notpurport	 to  express  any opinion on the effect	 of  a	voidcontract of wager on a collateral contract.  In Hill's	case(1) the only question that arose was whether the second partof s. 18 was a bar to the maintainability of a suit under  asubstituted  agreement for the recovery of money won upon  awager.	The majority accepted the view of Fletcher  Moulton,L.  J., on the first question.	The second question did	 notarise  for consideration in that case.	The House  of  Lordsneither expressly nor by necessary implication purported  tohold  that  collateral	contract of  either  partnership  oragency	was illegal; and that the long catena  of  decisionsalready	 referred  to  by us  were  wrongly  decided.	Thisjudgment  does not therefore support the contention  of	 thelearned Counsel for the appellant.The  legal position in India is not different.	 Before	 theAct  for Avoiding Wagers, 1848, the law relating  to  wagersthat  was  in force in British India was the common  law  ofEngland.  The Judicial Committee in Ramloll  Thackoorseydassv. Soojumnull Dhondmull (2)(1) (1921) 2 K.B. 351.(2) (1848) 4 M.I.A. 339.428expressly ruled that the common law of England was in  forcein India and under that law an action might be maintained ona  wager.   The wager dealt with in that case was  upon	 theaverage price which opium would fetch at the next Governmentsale at Calcutta.  Lord Campbell in rejecting the plea	thatthe wager was illegal observed at page 349:" The Statute, 8 & 9 Viet. c. 109, does not extend to India'and  although  both parties on the record  are	Hindoos,  nopeculiar  Hindoo law is alleged to exist upon  the  subject;therefore  this case, must be decided by the common  law  ofEngland ".It  is a direct decision on the point now mooted  before  usand  it	 is in favour of the respondents.  Again  the  PrivyCouncil	  considered  a	 similar  question   in	  DoolubdassPettamberdass  v. Ramloll Thackoorseydass and  others  Thereagain  the  wager was upon the price that  the	Patna  opiumwould fetch at the next Government sale at Calcutta.   Therethe  plaintiff	instituted a suit in the  Supreme  Court  ofBombay	in  January,  1847, to recover the money  won  on  awager.	After the suit was filed, Act 21 of 1848 was  passedby the Indian Legislature where under all agreements whethermade in speaking, writing, or otherwise, by way of gaming orwagering,  would  be  null and void and	 no  suit  would  beallowed in any Court of Law or Equity for recovering any sumof  money or valuable thing alleged to be won on any  wager.This  section was similar in terms to that of s. 18  of	 theGaming	Act, 1845.  Their Lordships held that  the  contractwas not void and the Act 21 of 1848 would not invalidate thecontracts  entered  into  before the Act  came	into  force.Adverting  to  the next argument that under Hindu  Law	suchcontracts  were void, they restated their view expressed  inRamloll	 Thackoorserdas v. Soojumnull Dhondmull (2) thus  atpage 127:"  Their  Lordships  have already said	that  they  are	 notsatisfied from the authorities referred to, that such is thelaw among the Hindoos... . "The  Judicial  Committee again restated the law	 in  similarterms in Raghoonauth Sahoi Chotayloll v.(1) (1850) 5 M.I.A. 109.(2) (1848) 4 M.I.A. 339.429Manickchund  and  Kaisreechund	(1).   There  the   JudicialCommittee  held that a wagering contract in India  upon	 theaverage price opium would fetch at a future Government sale,was  legal  and	 enforceable  before  the  passing  of	 theLegislative Act, No. 21 of 1848.The  aforesaid three decisions of the Privy Council  clearlyestablish  the legal position in India before the  enactmentof the Act 21 of 1848, namely, that wagering contracts	weregoverned by the common law of England and were not void	 andtherefore  enforceable in Courts.  They also held  that	 theHindu Law did not prohibit any such wagers.The  same view was expressed by the Indian Courts  in  casesdecided	 after the enactment of the Contract Act.  An  agentwho  paid the amount of betting lost by him was	 allowed  torecover the same from his principal in Pringle v. Jafar Khan(2).  The reason for that decision is given at page 445:"  There  was nothing illegal in the  contract;	 betting  athorse-races could not be said to be illegal in the sense  oftainting any transaction connected with it. This distinctionbetween an agreement which is only void and one in which theconsideration is also unlawful is made in the Contract	Act.Section 23 points out in what cases the consideration of  anagreement  is unlawful, and in such cases the  agreement  isalso  void,  that is, not enforceable at  law.	 Section  30refers to cases in which the agreement is only void,  thoughthe consideration is not necessarily unlawful.	There is  noreason why the plaintiff should not recover the sum paid  byhim...... ."In  Shibho  Mal	 v. Lachman Das (3) an agent  who  paid	 thelosses	on the wagering transactions was allowed to  recoverthe  amounts he paid from his principal.  In Beni Madho	 Dasv. Kaunsal Kishor Dhusar (4) the plaintiff who lent money tothe  defendant to enable him to pay off a gambling debt	 wasgiven  a  decree  to recover the same  from  the  defendant.Where  two partners entered into a contract of wager with  athird(1)  (1856) 6 M.I.A. 251.(3)  (1901) I.L.R. 23 All. 165.(2)  (1883) I.L.R. 5 All. 443.(4)  (1900) I.L.R. 22 All. 452.430party  and  one partner had satisfied his own  and  his	 co-partner's  liability  under the contract,  the	Nagpur	HighCourt,	in Md.	Gulam Mustafakhan v. Padamsi (1)  held	thatthe  partner  who paid the amount could	 legally  claim	 theother  partner's  share	 of the	 loss.	 The  learned  Judgereiterated  the	 same principle accepted  in  the  decisionscited supra, when he said at page  49:"  Section  30 of the Indian Contract Act  does	 not  affectagreements	or	transactions	  collateral	  towagers.........	   ."The   said  decisions  were  based  upon  the	well-settledprinciple  that a wagering contract was only void,  but	 notillegal,  and  therefore  a  collateral	 contract  could  beenforced.Before	closing	 this branch of the discussion,	 it  may  beconvenient  to	consider a subsidiary point  raised  by	 thelearned Counsel for the appellant that though a contract  ofpartnership  was not illegal, in the matter  of	 accounting,the   loss  paid  by  one  of  the  partners   on   wageringtransactions,	could  not  be	taken  into   consideration.Reliance is placed in support of this contention on Chitty'sContract, p. 495, para. 908, which reads:" Inasmuch as betting is not in itself illegal, the law doesnot refuse to recognise a partnership formed for the purposeof  betting.  Upon the dissolution of such a partnership  anaccount may be ordered.	 Each partner has a right to recoverhis  share of the capital subscribed, so far as it  has	 notbeen  spent;  but he cannot claim an account of	 profits  orrepayments  of amounts advanced by him which  have  actuallybeen applied in paying the bets of the partnership."In support of this view, two decisions are cited.  They are:Thwaites  v. Coulthwaite (2 ) and Saffery v. Mayer(3).	 Thefirst  case  has  already been	considered  by	us.   There,Chitty,	 J.,  in giving a decree for account left  open	 thequestion  of  the legality of certain transactions  till  itarose on the taking of the(1) A.I.R. (1923) Nag. 48.	   (2) (1896) 1 Ch. 496.(3) L.R. (1901) 1 K.B. 11.431account.   Far from helping the appellant, the	observationsand   the   actual  decision  in  that	case   support	 therespondents' contention.  The reservation of the question ofparticular  transactions  presumably  related  only  to	 thetransactions  prohibited by the Betting Act, 1853.  Such  ofthe transactions which were so prohibited by the Betting Actwould  be illegal and therefore the contract of	 partnershipcould not operate on such transactions.	 The case of Safferyv. Mayer(1) related to a suit for recovery of money advancedby  one	 person	 to another for the purpose  of	 betting  onhorses	on  their joint account.  The appellate	 Court	heldthat  by reason of the provisions of the Gaming	 Act,  1892,the  action  was not maintainable.   This  decision  clearlyturned upon the provisions of the Gaming, Act, 1892.  Smith,M.  R.,	 observed that the plaintiff paid the money  to	 thedefendant  in respect of a contract rendered null  and	voidand  therefore it was not recoverable under the second	limbof  that section.  The other Lord Justices also based  theirjudgments on the express words of the Gaining Act, 1892.  Itwill  be also interesting to note that the Court  of  Appealfurther pointed out that Chitty, J., in Thwaites' Case(2) indeciding in the way he did omitted to consider the effect ofthe  provisions of the Gaming Act, 1892, on the question  ofmaintainability	 of  the action before him.   The  aforesaidpassage in Chitty's Contract must be understood only in	 thecontext of the provisions of the Gaming Act, 1892.The  aforesaid discussion yields the following results:	 (1)Under the common law of England a contract of wager is validand  therefore	both  the primary contract as  well  as	 thecollateral agreement in respect thereof are enforceable; (2)after the enactment of the Gaming Act, 1845, a wager is madevoid but not illegal in the sense of being forbidden by law,and  thereafter a primary agreement of wager is void  but  acollateral  agreement  is  enforceable;	 (3)  there  was   aconflict on the question whether the second part of s. 18 ofthe Gaming Act, 1845, would cover a case for the recovery ofmoney or valuable thing alleged to be won upon(1) L.R. (1901) 1 K.B. 11.     (2) (1896) 1 Ch. 496.432any  wager  under a substituted contract  between  the	sameparties:  the House of Lords in Hill's Case,(1) had  finallyresolved  the conflict by holding that such a claim was	 notsustainable whether it was made under the original  contractof  wager  between  the	 parties  or  under  a	 substitutedagreement  between them; (4) under the Gaming Act, 1892,  inview  of  its  wide  and  comprehensive	 phraseology,	evencollateral contracts, including partnership agreements,	 arenot  enforceable;  (5) s. 30 of the Indian Contract  Act  isbased upon the provisions of s. 18 of the Gaming Act,  1845,and  though  a wager is void and unenforceable,	 it  is	 notforbidden  by law and therefore the object of  a  collateralagreement  is not unlawful under s. 23 of the Contract	Act;and (6) partnership being an agreement within the meaning ofs. 23 of the Indian Contract Act, it is not unlawful, thoughits  object  is	 to carry  on  wagering	 transactions.	 We,therefore, hold that in the present case the partnership  isnot unlawful within the meaning of s. 23(A) of the  ContractAct.Re.   (ii)-Public  Policy:  The	 learned  Counsel  for	 theappellant contends that the concept of public policy is verycomprehensive	and  that  in  India,	particularly   afterindependence,  its content should be measured having  regardto  political,	social and economic policies  of  a  welfareState, and the traditions of this ancient country  reflectedin  Srutis, Smritis and Nibandas.  Before adverting  to	 theargument  of the learned Counsel, it would be convenient  atthe  outset to ascertain the meaning of this concept and  tonote how the Courts in England and India have applied it  todifferent situations.  Cheshire and Fifoot in their book  on" Law of Contract ", 3rd Edn., observe at page " 280 thus: 'The  public  interests which is designed to protect  are  socomprehensive and heterogeneous, and opinions as to what  isinjurious must of necessity vary so greatly with the  socialand moral convictions, and at times even with the  politicalviews, of different judges, that it forms a treacherous	 andunstable(1)  (1921) 2 K.B. 351.433ground for legal decision  These questions have agitated theCourts	in the past, but the present state of the law  wouldappear to be reasonably clear.	Two observations may be madewith some degree of assurance.First,	although the rules already established by  precedentmust  be  moulded to fit the new conditions  of	 a  changingworld, it is no longer legitimate for the Courts to invent anew head of public policy.  A judge is not free to speculateupon what, in his opinion, is for the good of the community.He  must be content to apply, either directly or by  way  ofanalogy,  the' principles laid down in	previous  decisions.He  must expound, not expand, this particular branch of	 thelaw.Secondly, even though the contract is one which prima  faciefalls under one of the recognized heads of public policy, itwill  not be held illegal unless its harmful  qualities	 areindisputable.	The  doctrine, as Lord Atkin remarked  in  aleading	 case,	" should only be invoked in clear  cases  inwhich the harm to the public is substantially incontestable,and  does not depend upon the idiosyncratic inferences of  afew judicial minds    .......... In popular language ... thecontract should be given the benefit of the doubt "."Anson  in his Law of Contract states the same rule thus,  atp. 216:"Jessel,  M. R., in 1875, stated a principle which is  stillvalid  for  the	 Courts,  when	he  said:  '-You  have	thisparamount  public  policy  to consider,	 that  you  are	 notlightly to interfere with the freedom of contract '; and  itis  in	reconciling freedom of contract	 with  other  publicinterests which are regarded as of not less importance	thatthe difficulty in these cases arises.....We  may	 say, however, that the policy of the  law  has,  oncertain	 subjects,  been  worked into  a  set  of  tolerablydefinite  rules.   The application of  these  to  particularinstances  necessarily	varies with the	 conditions  of	 thetimes and the progressive development of public opinion	 andmorality, but, as Lord Wright has said	public policy,	likeany other branch of the Common	   Law,	 ought to be, and  Ithink is, governed by55434the judicial use of precedents.	 If it is said that rules ofpublic policy have to be moulded to suit new conditions of achanging  world, that is true; but the same is true  of	 theprinciples of the Common Law generally.	 "In  Halsbury's	Laws  of  England, 3rd	Edn.,  Vol.  8,	 thedoctrine is stated at p. 130 thus:" Any agreement which tends to be injurious to the public oragainst the public good is void as being contrary to  publicpolicy................. It seems, however, that this  branchof the law will not be extended.  The determination of	whatis  contrary to the so-called policy of the law	 necessarilyvaries from time to time.  Many transactions are upheld	 nowwhich  in  a former generation would have  been	 avoided  ascontrary  to  the  supposed policy of  the  law.   The	ruleremains,  but  its application varies  with  the  principleswhich for the time being guide public opinion.	"A  few of the leading cases on the subject reflected in	 theauthoritative statements 'of law by the various authors	 mayalso  be  useful to demarcate the limits  of  this  illusiveconcept.Parke,	B.,  in Egerton v. Brownlow(1), which is  a  leadingjudgment  on the subject, describes the doctrine  of  publicpolicy thus at p. 123:"'I  Public policy' is a vague and unsatisfactory term,	 andcalculated to lead to uncertainty and error, when applied tothe  decision  of  legal  rights; it  is  capable  of  beingunderstood  in	different senses; it may, and does,  in	 itsordinary sense, mean I political expedience', or that  whichis  best for the common good of the community; and  in	thatsense  there may be every variety of opinion,  according  toeducation, habits, talents, and dispositions of each person,who is to decide whether an act is against public policy  ornot.   To  allow this to be a ground of	 judicial  decision,would lead to the greatest uncertainty and confusion.  It isthe  province  of  the statesman, and  not  the	 lawyer,  todiscuss,  and of the Legislature to determine, what is	bestfor  the  public  good,	 and to provide	 for  it  by  properenactments.  It 1s the province of the judge(1)  4 H.L.C. 1, 123; 10 E.R. 359,408.435to expound the law only; the written from the statutes;	 theunwritten   or	common	law  from  the	decisions   of	 ourpredecessors  and of our existing Courts, from text  writersof  acknowledged  authority, and upon the principles  to  beclearly	  deduced  from	 them  by  sound  reason  and	justinference;  not to speculate upon what is the best,  in	 hisopinion, for the advantage of the community.  Some of  thesedecisions may have no doubt been founded upon the prevailingand  just  opinions of the public good ; for  instance,	 theillegality  of covenants in restraint of marriage or  trade.They  have become a part of the recognised law, and  we	 aretherefore  bound by them, but we are not thereby  authorisedto  establish as law everything which we may think  for	 thepublic	 good,	and  prohibit  everything  which  we   thinkotherwise.  "In  Janson  v. Driefontein Consolidated	 Mines,	 Ltd.(1)  anaction	raised	against British underwriters in	 respect  ofinsurance  of treasures against capture during	its  transitfrom  a foreign state to Great Britain was resisted  by	 theunderwriters  on the ground that the insurance	was  againstpublic policy.	The House of Lords rejected the plea.	Earlof Halsbury, L.C., in his speech made weighty  observations,which  may usefully be extracted.  The learned Lord says  atpage 491:In  treating of various branches of the law learned  personshave  analysed	the sources of the law, and  have  sometimesexpressed  their opinion that such and such a  provision  isbad because it is contrary to public policy; but I deny thatany  Court  can invent a new head of public policy  ;  so  acontract   for	marriage  brokerage,  the  creation   of   aperpetuity,  a contract in restraint of trade, a  gaming  orwagering contract, or, what is relevant here, the  assistingof the King's enemies, are all undoubtedly unlawful  things;and  you  may say that it is because they  are	contrary  topublic	policy	they are unlawful; but it is  because  thesethings	have  been either enacted or assumed to	 be  by	 thecommon law unlawful, and not because a judge or Court have aright to declare that such and such(1)  (1902) A.C. 484.436things	are in his or their view contrary to public  policy.Of  course,  in	 the  application  of  the  principles	hereinsisted on, it is inevitable that the particular case	mustbe  decided by a judge; he must find the facts, and he	mustdecide	whether the facts so found do or do not come  withinthe principles which I have endeavoured to describe-that is,a  principle of public policy, recognised by the law,  whichthe  suggested	contract is infringing, or  is	supposed  toinfringe.  "These  observations  indicate that the	doctrine  of  publicpolicy	is  only  a  branch of common  law  and	 unless	 theprinciple of public policy is recognised by that law,  Courtcannot	apply it to invalidate a contract.  Lord Lindley  inhis  speech  at p. 507 pointed out that public policy  is  avery  unstable	and dangerous foundation on which  to  builduntil made safe by decision.  A promise made by one  spouse,after a decree nisi for the dissolution of the marriage	 hasbeen  pronounced, to marry a third person after	 the  decreehas  been made absolute is not void as being against  publicpolicy:	 see Fender v. St. John-Mildmay (1).  In  that	caseLord Atkin states the scope of the doctrine thus at p. 12:"  In popular language, following the wise aphorism  of	 SirGeorge Jessel cited above, the contract should be given	 thebenefit of the doubt.But there is no doubt that the rule exists.  In cases  wherethe promise to do something contrary to public policy  whichfor  short  I  will  call a  harmful  thing,  or  where	 theconsideration for the promise is the doing or the promise todo a harmful thing a judge, though he is on slippery ground,at  any rate has a chance of finding a	footing........	 Butthe doctrine does not extend only to harmful acts, it has tobe applied to harmful tendencies.  Here the ground is  stillless safe and more treacherous ".Adverting  to the observation of Lord Halsbury in Janson  v.Driefontein  Consolidated Mines Ltd.  Lord  Atkin  commentedthus, at page 11:"...............  Lord	Halsbury indeed appeared  to  decidethat the categories of public policy are closed,(1) (1938) A. C. 1.(2) (1902) A.C. 484.437and that the principle could not be invoked anew unless	 thecase could be brought within some principle of public policyalready recognised by the law.	I do not find, however, thatthis  view received the express assent of the other  membersof  the House; and it seems to me, with respect, too  rigid.On  the	 other	hand,  it  fortifies  the  serious   warningillustrated  by the passages cited above that  the  doctrineshould	only be invoked in clear cases in which the harm  tothe  public  is substantially incontestable,  and  does	 notdepend	upon the idiosyncratic inferences of a few  judicialminds ".Lord Thankerton summarised his view in the following  terms,at p. 23:" In the first place, there can be little question as to theproper	function  of  the Courts,  in  questions  of  publicpolicy.	  Their duty is to expound, and not to expand,	suchpolicy.	  Thai	does not mean that they are  precluded	fromapplying  ail existing principle of public policy to  a	 newset  of circumstances, where such circumstances are  clearlywithin	the  scope of the policy.  Such a  case	 might	wellarise in the case of safety of the State, for instance.	 Butno such case is suggested here.	 Further, the Courts must bewatchful  not  to be influenced by their view  of  what	 theprinciple of public policy, or its limits, should be ".Lord Wright, at p. 38, explains the two senses in which	 thewords " public policy" are used :"  In  one  sense every rule of law, either  common  law  orequity,	 which	has been laid down by the  Courts,  in	thatcourse of judicial legislation which has evolved the law  ofthis  country,	has been based on considerations  of  publicinterest  or policy.  In that, sense Sir George	 Jessel,  M.R.,  referred  to the paramount public	policy	that  peopleshould	fulfil	their contracts.  But public policy  in	 thenarrower sense means that there are considerations of publicinterest  which	 require  the Courts to	 depart	 from  theirprimary	 function of enforcing contracts, and  exceptionallyto  refuse to enforce them.  Public policy in this sense  isdisabling438Then  the  noble  Lord proceeds to lay	down  the  followingprinciples  on which a judge should exercise  this  peculiarand  exceptional jurisdiction: (1) It is clear	that  publicpolicy is not a branch of law to be extended ; (2) it is theprovince  of the judge to expound the law only;	 (3)  publicpolicy, like any other branch of the common law, is governedby  the	 judicial use of precedents ; and (4)  Courts  applysome recognised principles to the new conditions, proceedingby  way of analogy and according to logic  and	convenience,just  as Courts deal with any other rule of the common	law.The learned Lord on the basis of the discussion of case	 lawon the subject observes at p. 40:" It is true that it has been observed that certain rules ofpublic policy have to be moulded to suit now conditions of achanging  world	 :  but that is true of	 the  principles  ofcommon law generally.  I find it difficult to conceive	thatin  these  days	 any  new head of  public  policy  could  bediscovered ".The  observations  of  the aforesaid Law  Lords	 define	 theconcept	 of  public policy and lay down the  limits  of	 itsapplication in the modern times.  In short, they state	thatthe  rules  of	public	policy	are'  well-settled  and	 thefunction  of  the Courts is only to expound them  and  applythem  to  varying  situations.	While Lord  Atkin  does	 notaccept Lord Halsbury's dictum that the categories of  publicpolicy	are  closed, he gives a warning	 that  the  doctrineshould	be invoked only in clear cases in which the harm  tothe  public is substantially incontestable, Lord  Thankertonand  Lord  Wright  seem to suggest that	 the  categories  ofpublic - policy are well-settled and what the Courts at bestcan   do  is  only  to	apply  the  same  to  new   set	  ofcircumstances.	Neither of them excludes the possibility  ofevolving  a new bead of public policy in a  changing  world,but  they  could  not  conceive	 that  under  the   existingcircumstances any such head could be discovered.Asquith,  L.  J.,  in  Monkland v.  Jack  Barclay  Ltd.	 (1)restated the law crisply at p. 723:"The Courts have again and again said, that where a contractdoes not fit into one or other of these(1)  (1951) 1 All E.R. 714.439pigeon-holes  but  lies	 outside this  charmed	circle,	 thecourts	should use extreme reserve in holding a contract  tobe void as against public policy, and should only do so whenthe  contract is incontestably and on any view	inimical  tothe public interest ".The Indian cases also adopt the same view.  A division benchof the Bombay High Court in Shrinivas Das Lakshminarayan  v.Ram Chandra Ramrattandas observed at p. 20:"  It  is  no  doubt open to the  Court	 to  hold  that	 theconsideration  or object of an agreement is unlawful on	 theground	that  it  is opposed to what the  Court	 regards  aspublic	policy.	  This	is laid down in section	 23  of	 theIndian	Contract  Act and in India therefore  it  cannot  beaffirmed as a matter of law as was affirmed by Lord Halsburyin  Janson v. Driefontein Consolidated Mines, Limited  (1902A. C. 484 at p. 491) that no Court can invent a new head  ofpublic policy, but the dictum of Lord Davey in the same casethat  "	 public policy is always an unsafe  and	 treacherousground	for  legal  decision " may be accepted	as  a  soundcautionary maxim in considering the reasons assigned by	 thelearned Judge for his decision ".The  same  view	 is  confirmed	in  Bhagwant  Genuji   Girmev.Gangabisan  Ramgopal (2) and Gopi Tihadi v.  Gokhei  Panda(3).  The doctrine of public policy may be summarized  thus:Public	policy	or  the policy of the  law  is	an  illusiveconcept; it has been described as " untrustworthy guide ", "variable  quality  ", " uncertain one ", " unruly  horse  ",etc.  ; the primary duty of a Court of Law is to  enforce  apromise	 which	the  parties have made	and  to	 uphold	 thesanctity  of contracts which form the basis of society,	 butin  certain cases, the Court may relieve them of their	dutyon  a rule founded on what is called the public policy;	 forwant  of  better words Lord Atkin describes  that  somethingdone  contrary to public policy is a harmful thing, but	 thedoctrine  is extended not only to harmful cases but also  toharmful tendencies; this doctrine of public policy is only abranch of common law, and,(1) I.L.R. (1920) 44 Bom. 6.  (2) I.L.R. 1941 Bom- 71.(3) I.L.R. 1953 Cuttack 558.440just like any other branch of common law, it is governed  byprecedents;  the  principles have  been	 crystallized  underdifferent  heads and though it is permissible for Courts  toexpound	 and apply them to different situations,  it  shouldonly be invoked in clear and incontestable cases of harm  tothe  public;  though  the heads are not	 closed	 and  thoughtheoretically  it  may be permissible to evolve a  new	headunder  exceptional circumstances of a changing world, it  isadvisable  in  the interest of stability of society  not  tomake any attempt to discover new heads in these days.This leads us to the question whether in England or in Indiaa  definite principle of public policy has been	 evolved  orrecognized  invalidating  wagers.   So	far  as	 England  isconcerned,  the passages from text-books extracted  and	 thedecisions  discussed  in  connection with  the	first  pointclearly	 establish that there has never been such a rule  ofpublic policy in that country.	Courts under the common law'of  England till the year 1845 enforced such contracts	evenbetween	 parties to the transaction.  They held that  wagerswere  not illegal.  After the passing of the English  GamingAct, 1845 (8 & 9 Vict. c. 109), such contracts were declaredvoid.	Even  so;  the Courts held that	 though	 a  wageringcontract  was  void,  it was not illegal  and  therefore  anagreement  collateral  to  the wagering	 contract  could  beenforced.  Only after the enactment of the Gaming Act,	1892(55  Vict.  c.	9), the	 collateral  contracts	also  becameunenforceable  by reason of the express words of  that	Act.Indeed, in some of the decisions cited supra the question ofpublic	policy	was  specifically raised  and  negatived  byCourts: See Thacker v. Hardy (1); Hyams v. Stuart King (2) ;and  Michael  Jeffrey  &  Company v.  Bamford  (3).   It  istherefore  abundantly clear that the common law	 of  Englanddid  not recognize any principle of public policy  declaringwagering contracts illegal.The legal position is the same in India.  The Indian Courts,both before and after the passing of the Act(1) (1878) L.R. 4 Q.B. 685.    (2) [1908] 2 K.B. 696.(3) (1949) 2 All E. R. 452.44121 of 1848 and also after the enactment of the Contract Act,have  held that the wagering contracts are not	illegal	 andthe  collateral	 contracts  in	respect	 of  GI.  them	 areenforceable.   We have already referred to these in  dealingwith  the first point and we need not A,, cover	 the  groundonce  again, except to cite a passage from the	decision  ofthe   Judicial	Committee  in  Ramloll	Thackoorseydass	  v.Soojumnull Dhondmull (1), which is directly in point.  TheirLordships  in considering the applicability of the  doctrineof public policy to a wagering contract observed at p. 350:" We are of opinion, that, although, to a certain degree, itmight  create a temptation to do what was wrong, we are	 notto presume that the parties would commit a crime; and as  itdid  not interfere with the performance of any duty, and  asif  the	 parties were not induced by it to commit  a  crime,neither	 the interests of individuals or of  the  Governmentcould  be affected by it, we cannot say that it is  contraryto public policy."There  is not a single decision after the above cited  case,which was decided in 1848, up to the present day wherein theCourts	either	declared wagering contracts  as	 illegal  orrefused	 to  enforce any collateral contract in	 respect  ofsuch  wagers,  on  the ground of  public  policy.   It	may,therefore,  be	stated without any  contradiction  that	 thecommon	law of England in respect of wagers was followed  inIndia  and  it	has always been held  that  such  contracts,though	void after the Act of 1848, were not  illegal.	 Northe  legislatures  of the States excepting Bombay  made	 anyattempt	 to  bring  the	 law in	 India	in  line  with	thatobtaining  in  England	after the  Gaming  Act,	 1892.	 TheContract  Act was passed in the year 1872.  At the  time  ofthe  passing of the Contract Act, there was a Central  -Act,Act 21 of 1848, principally based on the English Gaming Act,1845.	There  was also the Bombay Wagers  (Amendment)	Act,1865,  amending the former Act in terms analogous  to  thoselater enacted by the Gaming Act, 1892.	Though the Contract(1)  (1848) 4 M.I.A. 339.56442Act  repealed the Act 21 of 1848, it did not incorporate  init  the provisions similar to those of the Bombay  Act;	 norwas  any  amendment made subsequent to the  passing  of	 theEnglish Gaming Act, 1892.  The legislature must be deemed tohave had the knowledge of the state of law in England,	and,therefore,  we may assume that it did not think fit to	makewagers	illegal	 or  to hit at	collateral  contracts.	 Thepolicy	of  law in India has therefore been to	sustain	 thelegality of wagers.The history of the law of gambling in India would also	showthat  though gaming in certain respects was  controlled,  ithas  never  been absolutely prohibited.	 The  following	 aresome of the gambling Acts in India: The Public Gambling	 Act(111 of 1867); The Bengal Public Gambling Act (11 of  1867);The  Bombay Prevention of Gambling Act (IV of 1887);  MadhyaBharat	Gambling  Act(LI  of 1949);  Madhya  Pradesh  Public-Gambling  Act; Madras Gaming Act (111 of 1930); The  OrissaPrevention of Gambling Act (XVII of 1955); the Punjab PublicGambling  Act (111 of 1867); the Rajasthan  Public  GamblingOrdinance  (Ordinance  XLVIII of 1949) and the	U.P.  PublicGambling  Act.	 These Acts do not prohibit  gaming  in	 itsentirety,  but aim at suppressing gaming in  private  houseswhen carried on for profit or gain of the owner or  occupierthereof	  and  also  gaming  in	 public.    Gaming   withoutcontravening  the  provisions  of the said  Acts  is  legal.Wherever the State intended to declare a particular form  ofgaming illegal, it made "an express statute to that  effect:See  s. 29-A of the Indian Penal Code.	In  other  respects,gaming and wagering are allowed in India.  It is also commonknowledge that horse races are allowed throughout India	 andthe State also derives revenue therefrom.The  next  question  posed by the learned  Counsel  for	 theappellant is whether under the Hindu Law it can be said thatgambling  contracts  are held to be  illegal.	The  learnedCounsel	 relies upon the observations of this Court  in	 TheState  of  Bombay  v.  R. M.  D.  Chamarbaugwala  (1).	 Thequestion raised in that case was(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 874.443whether the Bombay Lotteries and Prize' Competition  Controland Tax (Amendment) Act of 1952 extending the definition  of" prize competition " contained in s. 2(1)(d) of the  BombayLotteries and Prize Competition Control and Tax Act of 1948,so  as	to  include prize  competition	carried	 on  throughnewspapers  printed  and published outside  the	 State,	 wasconstitutionally  valid, It was contended, inter alia,	thatthe  Act offended the fundamental right of the	respondents,who were conducting prize competitions, under Art. 19(1) (g)of the Constitution and also violated the freedom of  inter-State trade under Art. 301 thereof This Court held that	 thegambling  activities in their very nature and  essence	wereextra  commercium and could not either be trade or  commercewithin the meaning of the aforesaid provisions and thereforeneither the fundamental right of the respondents under	Art.19(1)(g) or their right to freedom of interState trade underArt.  301  is  violated.  In that context Das,	C.  J.,	 hascollected   all	  the  Hindu  Law  texts  from	 Rig   Veda,Mahabharata,  Manu,  Brihaspati, Yagnavalkya, etc.,  at	 pp.922-923.  It is unnecessary to restate them here, but it  isclear  from  those texts that Hindu sacred  books  condemnedgambling in unambiguous terms.	But the question is  whetherthose ancient text-books remain only as pious wishes of	 ourancestors or whether they were enforced in the recent centu-ries.	All  the  branches of the Hindu Law  have  not	beenadministered  by Courts in India; only	questions  regardingsuccession, inheritance, marriage, and religious usages	 andinstitutions are decided according to the Hindu Law,  exceptin  so	far  as such law has  been  altered  by	 legislativeenactment.  Besides the matters above referred to, there arecertain additional matters to which the Hindu Law is appliedto   the  Hindus,  in  some  cases  by	virtue	of   expresslegislation  and  in  others on the  principle	of  justice,equity	and  good conscience.  These matters  are  adoption,guardianship, family relations, wills, gifts and  partition.As  to	these matters also the Hindu Law is  to	 be  appliedsubject to such alterations as have been made by legislativeenactments: See Mulla's Hindu Law, para.4443,  p.	2. In other respects the ancient Hindu Law  was	 notenforced  in  Indian  Courts and it may be  said  that	theybecame	obsolete.  Admittedly there, has not been  a  singleinstance  in  recorded cases holding  gambling	or  wageringcontracts  illegal on the ground that they are	contrary  topublic	policy	as they offended the principles	 of  ancientHindu  Law.  In the circumstances, we find it  difficult  toimport	the tenets of Hindu Law to give a novel	 content  tothe  doctrine  of public policy in respect of  contracts  ofgaming and wagering.To  summarize: The common law of England and that  of  Indiahave  never struck down contracts of wager on the ground  ofpublic policy ; indeed they have always been held to be	 notillegal	 notwithstanding the fact that the statute  declaredthem void.  Even after the contracts of wager were  declaredto  be void in England, collateral contracts  were  enforcedtill  the passing of the Gamina Act of 1892, and  in  India,except in the State of Bombay, they have been enforced	evenafter  the  passing  of	 the  Act  21  of  1848,  which	 wassubstituted  by	 s.  30	 of the	 Contract  Act.	  The  moralprohibitions  in Hindu Law texts against gambling  were	 notonly  not  legally enforced but were allowed  to  fall	intodesuetude.   In practice, though gambling is  controlled  inspecific matters, it has not been declared illegal and thereis  no law declaring wagering illegal.	Indeed, some of	 thegambling  practices are a perennial source of income to	 theState.	 In  the circumstances it is not -possible  to	holdthat  there  is	 any definite head or  principle  of  publicpolicy	evolved by Courts or laid down by  precedents  whichwould  directly apply to wagering contracts.  Even if it  ispermissible for Courts to evolve a new head of public policyunder	 extraordinary	 circumstances	 giving	  rise	  toincontestable harm to the society, we cannot say that  wageris one of such instances of exceptional gravity, for it	 hasbeen recognized for centuries and has been tolerated by	 thepublic and the State alike. If it has any such tendency,  itis  for	 the  legislature to make  a  law  prohibiting	suchcontracts and declaring them illegal and not for this  Courtto resort to judicial legislation.445Re.  Point  3-Immorality: The argument under  this  head  israther	broadly	 stated	 by  the  learned  Counsel  for	 theappellant.  The learned counsel attempts to draw an  analogyfrom  the  Hindu  Law  relating to  the	 doctrine  of  piousobligation  of	sons to discharge their father's  debts	 andcontends that what the Hindu Law considers to be immoral  inthat context may appropriately be applied to a case under s.23 of the Contract Act. - Neither any authority is cited norany  legal basis is suggested for importing the doctrine  ofHindu  Law into the domain of contracts.  Section 23 of	 theContract Act is inspired by the common law of England and itwould be more useful to refer to the English Law than to theHindu  Law texts dealing with a different matter.  Anson  inhis Law Of Contracts states at p. 222 thus :" The only aspect of immorality with which Court of Law havedealt  is sexual immorality............. ." Halsbury in	 hisLaws  of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. makes a similar  statement,at p. 138:" A contract which is made upon an immoral consideration  orfor  an	 immoral purpose is unenforceable and  there  is  nodistinction  in	 this respect between  immoral	and  illegalcontracts.   The  immorality  here  alluded  to	 is   sexualimmorality."In the Law of Contract by Cheshire and Fifoot, 3rd Edn.,  itis stated at p. 279:"  Although  Lord  Mansfield laid it down  that	 a  contractcontra	bonos mores is illegal, the law in  this  connectiongives  no extended meaning to morality but  concerns  itselfonly  with what is sexually reprehensible." In the  book  onthe Indian Contract Act by Pollock and Mulla it is stated atp. 157:" The epithet " immoral " points, in legal usage, to conductor  purposes which the State, though disapproving  them,  isunable, or not advised, to visit with direct punishment."The learned authors confined its operation to acts which areconsidered  to	be  immoral according to  the  standards  ofimmorality approved by Courts.	The case law both in Englandand  India confines the operation of the doctrine to  sexualimmorality.  To cite446Only   some  instances:	 settlements  in  consideration	  ofencubinage,  contracts of sale or hire of things to be	usedin  a brothel or by a prostitute for purposes incidental  toher  profession, agreements to pay money for future  illicitcohabitation,	promises   in	regard	 to   marriage	 forconsideration,	or  contracts facilitating divorce  are	 allheld to be void on the ground that the object is immoral.The  word  "  immoral  "  is  a	 very  comprehensive   word.ordinarily  it	takes in every aspect  of  personal  conductdeviating  from the standard norms of life.  It may also  besaid  that what is repugnant to good conscience is  immoral.Its  varying content depends upon time, place and the  stageof  civilization  of  a particular society.   In  short,  nouniversal  standard  can be laid down and any law  based  onsuch fluid concept defeats its own purpose.  The  provisionsof  s.	23  of the Contract  Act  indicate  the	 legislativeintention   to	 give	it  a	restricted   meaning.	 Itsjuxtaposition  with  an	 equally  illusive  concept,  publicpolicy,	 indicates  that it is used in a  restricted  sense;otherwise  there would be overlapping of the  two  concepts.In  its	 wide sense what is immoral may	 be  against  publicpolicy,	 'for  public policy covers  political,	 social	 andeconomic   ground   of	 objection.    Decided	 cases	 andauthoritative  text-book' writers, therefore,  confined	 it,with  every justification, only to sexual  immorality.	 Theother  -  limitation  imposed on the word  by  the  statute,namely, " the court regards it as immoral ", brings out	 theidea  that  it is also a branch of the common law  like	 thedoctrine  of  public  policy,  and,  therefore,	 should	  beconfined to the Principles recognized and settled by Courts.-Precedents confine the said concept only to sexual  immora-lity and no case has been brought to our notice where it hasbeen  applied to any head other than sexual immorality.	  Inthe  circumstances,  we cannot evolve a new head  so  as  tobring in wagers within its fold.Lastly	it  is	contended by the  learned  Counsel  for	 theappellant that wager is extra-commercium and therefore therecannot be in law partnership for wager within the meaning ofs.  4  of the Partnership Act; for  partnership	 under	thatsection is relationship between447persons who have agreed to share the profits of a  business.Reliance  is  placed in respect of this	 contention  on	 thedecision  of this Court in The State of Bombay v. R.  M.  D.Chamarbaugwala	(1).   This question was not raised  in	 thepleadings.   No issue was framed in respect of it.  No	suchcase  was argued before the learned Subordinate Judge or  inthe High Court; nor was this point raised in the applicationfor  certificate  for leave to appeal to the  Supreme  Courtfiled  in  the	High Court.  Indeed,  the  learned  Advocateappearing  for the appellant in the High Court	stated	thathis  client  intended to raise one  question  only,  namely,whether	 the partnership formed for the purpose of  carryingon a business in differences was illegal within the  meaningof  s.	23 of the Contract Act.	 Further this plea  was	 notspecifically disclosed in the statement of case filed by theappellant in this Court.  If this contention had been raisedat  the earliest point of time, it would have been  open  tothe  respondents  to  ask for a suitable  amendment  of	 theplaint to sustain their claim.	In the circumstances, we  donot  think  that  we  could  with  justification  allow	 theappellant  to raise this new plea for the first time  beforeus,   as  it  would  cause  irreparable	 prejudice  to	 therespondents.  We express no opinion on this point.For  the  foregoing  reasons  we must  hold  that  the	suitpartnership was not unlawful within the meaning of s. 23  ofthe Indian Contract Act.In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.(1) [1957] S.C.R. 874.448