PETITIONER:F. N. ROY	Vs.RESPONDENT:COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS, CALCUTTA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:16/05/1957BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  648		  1957 SCR 1151ACT:Sea    Customs-Import	without	  licence-Confiscation	  ofgoods--Validity of Order-Discretion of	Customs-authorities-Validity of Enactment--Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878),ss.  167(8),  183 Imports and Exports  (Control)  Act,	1947(XVIII Of 1947), S. 3(1) (2)-Constitution of India, Art. 14.HEADNOTE:Section 167, item 8, of the Sea Customs Act, 1878,  providesthat  if any goods the importation of which is for the	timebeing  prohibited or restricted by or under Ch.	 IV  of	 theAct,  which Chapter includes s. 19, be imported	 into  Indiacontrary  to  such prohibition or  restriction,	 such  goodsshall be liable to confiscation and any person concerned  insuch importation shall be liable to a penalty not  exceedingthree  times  the value of the goods or	 not  exceeding	 onethousand  rupees.   By s. 183 of this Act it  is  provided:"Whenever confiscation is authorised by this Act, the officeradjudging it shall give the owner of the goods an option  topay in lieu of confiscation such fine as the officer  thinksfit.  " The Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947,  by  s.3(1)  empowers	the Central Government by an order  to	makeprovision   for	 prohibiting,  restricting,   or   otherwisecontrolling,  the  import, export,  carriage  coast-wise  orshipment  as  ships'  stores  of  goods	 of  any   specifieddescription.  Sub-section (2) of that section provides	thatall goods to which any order under sub-s. (1) applies, shallbe deemed to be goods of which the import or export has beenprohibited or restricted under s. 19 of the Sea Customs Act,1878,  and all the provisions of that Act shall have  effectaccordingly,1152except	that s. 183 thereof shall have effect as if for	 theword 'shall' the word 'may' are substituted.The  petitioner imported certain goods the import  of  whichhad been prohibited by the Central Government under S.	3(1)Of  the Imports and Exports (Control) Act.  By an  order  ofthe Collector of Customs, made under s. 167, item 8, of	 theSea Customs Act, these goods were confiscated and a  penaltyof Rs. 1,000, was imposed on the petitioner.  The petitionerchallenged the validity of this order.Held-: (1) Section 3(2) of the Imports and Exports (Control)Act, 1947, does not offend Art. 14 of the Constitution.	  Itdoes  not  by  its  own force give  any	 discretion  to	 theCustoms-authorities at all, and its only effect is to  applythe Sea Customs Act, 1878,. to certain cases.(2)  Section  183  Of the Sea Customs Act,  1878,  does	 notauthorise confiscation of goods.  It assumes that a power toconfiscate under other provisions of the Act exists.  It  isnot a statutory provision in two parts with regard to  whichit may be said that one part offends Art. 14 while the otherpart  does  not.  The section contains	only  one  statutoryprovision.(3)  Section  167, item 8, of the Sea Customs  :'Act,  1878,does not offend Art. 14 of the Constitution.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 438 of 1955.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.H.   J. Umrigar and N. H. Hingorani, for the petitioner.Porus  A. Mehta, B. Ganapati Iyer and R. H. Dhebar, for	 therespondents.1957.  May 16.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR	J.-By  a  notification dated  March  16,  1953,	 theGovernment  of India gave general permission to all  personsto import into India from certain countries any goods of anyof the descriptions specified in the schedule annexed to thenotification.	Among  the goods specified in  the  Schedulewere the following:Iron and steel chains of all sorts assessable under item  63(28)  of  the Indian Customs Tariff,  excluding	 chains	 forautomobiles and cycles whether cut to length or in rolls.1153The  petitioner	 is an importer of goods.   He	states	thatrelying	 on  the notification mentioned above he  placed  anorder with a company in Japan sometime in August, 1953,	 forthe supply of certain goods called in the trade, Zip Chains.The goods arrived in the port of Calcutta in due course	 andthe petitioner's bank paid the price of the goods  amountingto  Rs. 11,051-4-0.  Before the goods could be cleared	fromthe   port   of	  Calcutta,  the   petitioner	received   acommunication  from the Assistant Collector of	Customs	 forAppraisement, Calcutta, dated November 19, 1953, in which itwas  stated that it had been found that the  petitioner	 didnot possess valid import licence for the goods and requiringhim  to show cause why the goods should not  be	 confiscatedand  action taken against the petitioner under s. 167,	item8, of the Sea Customs Act.  The communication also  enquiredif  the	 petitioner  wanted  to be  heard  in  person.	 Thepetitioner submitted in answer a written explanation statingthat the Zip Chains imported by him were chains of the	kindfree import of which had been permitted by the	notificationof  March 16, 1953, and therefore no licence to import	themwas  necessary.	  He  was  thereafter  again  asked  by	 theCustoms-authorities whether he wanted a personal hearing  towhich  he replied that he did not.  Thereafter	on  December25,   1953,   the  Collector  of  Customs  made	  an   orderconfiscating  the goods and imposing a penalty of Rs.  1,000on  the petitioner.  This order bore an endorsement that  ithad  been despatched to the petitioner on February 1,  1954.It  reached him on February 3, 1954.  The order stated	thatan  appeal  would  lie against it to the  Central  Board  ofRevenue, New Delhi, within three months from the date of itsdespatch as noted on it.  The petitioner preferred an appealand  posted  the memorandum of appeal on May 4,	 1954.	 Thememorandum  reached the Central Board of Revenue on  May  6,1954,  and  was	 dismissed on the ground that  it  had	beenpreferred  after  the  expiry of the time  limited  for	 thepurpose.   The	petitioner then made an application  to	 theGovernment of India for revision of the order of the CentralBoard of Revenue but this application was1481154rejected.   The	 petitioner thereafter applied to  the	HighCourt  of Punjab under Art. 226 of the Constitution  for  anappropriate  writ to quash the order confiscating his  goodsand  imposing the fine on him but this application  too	 wasdismissed.The  petitioner has now applied to this Court under Art.  32of  the Constitution challenging the validity of  the  ordermade  against him.  Learned counsel for the  petitioner	 didnot  challenge the decision of the Customs-authorities	thatthe goods were not covered by the notification of March	 16,1953.	He  conceded  that  he	could  not  do	so  in	thisapplication.  Nor did he challenge the	Customs-authorities'power  to  confiscate the goods.   Learned  counsel  howeverchallenged the order of confiscation because it did not givethe  petitioner	 an  option  to	 pay  a	 fine  in  lieu	  ofconfiscation.	This contention was based on s. 183  of	 theSea Customs Act which provides as follows:Whenever confiscation is authorised by this Act, the officeradjudging it shall give the owner of the goods an option  topay in lieu of confiscation such fine as the officer  thinksfit.This section undoubtedly requires an option to pay a fine inlieu of confiscation, to be given and this was not done.   Adifficulty however is caused in the way of this argument  bys.  3 of the Imports and Exports (Control) Act,	 1947.	 Therelevant portion of s. 3 is set out below:3.   (1)  The Central Government may, by order published  inthe  official  Gazette,	 make  provision  for	prohibiting,restricting  or	 otherwise controlling, in all cases  or  inspecified classes of cases, and subject to such	 exceptions,if any, as may be made by or under the order,-(a)  the  import, export, carriage coastwise or shipment  asships' stores of goods of any specified description ;(b)...............................(2)  All  goods	 to  which any order  under  subsection	 (1)applies	 shall be deemed to be goods of which the import  orexport has been prohibited or restricted under section 19 ofthe Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VIII1155of  1878),  and all the provisions of that  Act	 &hall	haveeffect	accordingly, except that section 183  thereof  shallhave  effect  as if for the word "shall"  therein  the	word"may" were substituted.It  is admitted that the Imports and Exports  (Control)	 Actapplies to the goods with which we are concerned and in thiscase  the action that was taken was by virtue of  this	Act.That  being  so,  s.  183 of  the  Sea	Customs	 Act  becameapplicable because of the Imports and Exports (Control)	 Actand it could hence be applied only as modified by the latterAct.   So applied the section did not make it obligatory  onthe Customsauthorities when ordering confiscation, 'to	givean option to the owner to pay a fine in lieu of confiscationbut  gave  them a discretion whether to do so or  not.	 Theorder  of confiscation was not therefore bad even though  ithad not given the petitioner an option to pay a fine in lieuof  confiscation.  Learned Counsel for the  petitioner	thencontended  that	 the portion of s. 3(2) of the Act  of	1947which  read  "except  that section 183	thereof	 shall	haveeffect as if for the word " shall " therein the word " may "were, substituted ", left an uncontrolled discretion in	 theCustoms-authorities to give or not to give an option to	 paya  fine	 in lieu of compensation and  consequently  offendedArt.  14 of the Constitution.  He therefore said  that	thisportion of the section should be struck out of it.  He	saidthat after the offending portion was deleted from s. 3(2) ofthe  Act of 1947 it would require s. 183 of the Sea  CustomsAct  to	 be  applied without any  modification	at  all	 andtherefore it would be obligatory on the	 Customs-authoritieswhen  making an order of confiscation to give an  option  tothe  petitioner to pay a fine in lieu of  compensation	evenwhere the Act of 1947 applied.	Learned counsel said that asthis  had not been done, the order of confiscation  made  inthis case was bad.This  argument is based on the contention that a portion  ofs. 3(2) of the Act of 1947 offends Art. 14 and has thereforeto be deleted.	This contention is wrong.  By its own  forceno  part of s. 3(2) purports to give any discretion  to	 theCustoms-authorities at all.  There1156is  nothing  in it therefore to offend Art.  14.   The	onlyeffect of s. 3(2) is to apply the Sea Customs Act to certaincases.	 It is impossible to say that a statute	 which	onlymakes  another statute applicable to certain cases,  offendsArt.  14.  Such a statute has obviously nothing to  do	withArt.  14.  It is true that s. 3(2) of the Act of 1947  makess.   183   of  the  Sea	 Customs  Act  applicable   with   amodification.	It was said that s. 183 so modified  offendsArt. 14.  Assume that s. 183 as modified infringes Art.	 14.What  then?  Clearly on this assumption s. 183	as  modifiedbecomes	 ultra	vires  and illegal and it goes	out  of	 thestatute book.  But that does not affect the question  beforeus  at	all.   It does not make the  order  of	confiscationwithout	 an option to pay a fine in lieu thereof  bad.	 Theconfiscation  is  not made under s. 183.  It is	 made  underanother section of the Sea Customs Act, namely, s. 167, item8, which so far as is relevant is in these terms:167.  The  offences  mentioned in the first  column  of	 thefollowing  schedule  shall  be	punishable  to	the   extentmentioned in the third column of the same with reference  tosuch offences respectively:		      Sections of the Act to	  Penalties     Offences	       Wich offence has			 reference8, If any goods, thei	  8 & 19	  Such goods shallimportation or expor-			  be liable to con-tatipn of which is for			  fication; and anythe time being prohi-			  such offence shallbited or restricted by			  be liable to a pe-or under Chapter IV of			  nalty not exceed-this Act, be imported			  ing theree timesinto or exported from			  the value of theIndiacontrary to such			  goods, or not exc-prohibition or restric-			  eeding one thousa-tion.					  nd rupees.Chapter IV of the Sea Customs Act contains s. 19.  It has tobe  remembered that s. 3(2) of the Act of 1947	states	thatall goods to which any order under sub.s. (1) applies  shallbe  deemed  to	be  goods  of  which  the  import  has	beenprohibited  under s. 19 of the Sea Customs Act.	  Admittedlysub-s.	(1) of s. 3 of the Act of 1947 applies to the  goodswith which this case is concerned.  Under s. 3(2) of the Actof 1947 the import1157of these goods is to be deemed to have been prohibited unders. 19 of the Sea Customs Act.  It follows that action  unders.  167,  item	8, of the Sea Customs Act can  be  taken  inrespect	 of these goods and they can be confiscated and	 theperson	concerned  in the illegal import made  liable  to  apenalty.   Resort  to s. 183 of the Sea Customs Act  is	 notnecessary to justify the order of confiscation made in	thiscase at all.  Indeed s. 183 does not authorise confiscation.It assumes a confiscation authorised by other provisions  ofthe  Sea  Customs Act and provides that	 on  a	confiscationbeing adjudged, an option to pay a fine in lieu of it  shallbe given.  It cannot therefore be said, even on the  assump-tion  that learned counsel was right in his contention	thats.  183	 as  modified  offends Art. 14	that  the  order  ofconfiscation  is  bad.	 As to	whether	 the  contention  oflearned	 counsel is right or not we decide nothing as it  isnot necessary to do so.It  was	 then contended that the effect of Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution  on s. 183 of the Sea Customs Act, as  modifiedby  the	 Act  of 1947, was not to make	the  entire  s.	 183illegal but to invalidate the amendment in it as it was thisamendment alone which offended Art. 14, so that s. 183 as itstands in the Sea Customs Act had to be applied to this caseand  therefore	again  it was  obligatory  on  the  Customs-authorities  to	 give an option to the petitioner to  pay  afine  in lieu of confiscation.	To accept this	argument  wewould  have  to say that s. 3(2) of the Act of	1947  itselfoffends	 Art.  14, and it cannot modify s. 183	of  the	 SeaCustoms	 Act  as it purports to do.  We are  unable  to	 saythis.	In order to say that a statutory  provision  offendsArt.  14, we have to examine that provision.  We  have	heretwo statutory provisions.  One is s. 3(2) of the Act of 1947and that does not offend Art. 14.  The reasons for this viewwe  have  stated earlier.  The other is s. 183	of  the	 SeaCustoms Act as modified by the Act of 1947.  As so  modifiedwe have for the present purpose assumed that it offends Art.14.  If it does it goes out as a whole.	 It is not really  astatutory  provision  in two parts with regard to  which  itmight  have been possible to say that one part offends	Art.141158while the other part does not.	Section 183 with or  withoutthe modification really contains one statutory provision andtherefore  it must go out of the statute book as a whole  ornot  at	 all.  This contention on behalf of  the  petitionermust therefore fail.Learned counsel said that s. 183 was bad also for the reasonthat  it  left	it to the  uncontrolled	 discretion  of	 theCustoms-authorities to decide the quantum of the' fine to beimposed in lieu of confiscation.  On the facts of this case,it is an academic argument.  Even if it was right the entires. 183 would have to be ignored but that would not have	 theeffect	of making the order of confiscation passed in,	thiscase invalid.  All that the petitioner is concerned with  isto show that the order of confiscation was bad.	 The presentargument  does not touch that point and therefore it is	 notnecessary  to consider it at all.  Another similar  argumentwas  that  s.  167, item 8, of the Sea	Customs	 Act  itselfoffended  Art.	14  in	that it	 left  to  the	uncontrolleddiscretion  of the Customs-authorities to decide the  amountof  the penalty to be imposed.	The section makes  it  clearthat  the maximum penalty that might be imposed under it  isRs.  1,000.  The discretion that the section gives  must  beexercised  within  the	limit  so fixed.   This	 is  not  anuncontrolled  or unreasonable discretion.  Furthermore,	 thediscretion is vested in high Customs officers and there	 areappeals	 from  their order.  The imposition of the  fine  isreally a quasijudicial act and the test of the quantum of itis in the gravity of the offence.  The object of the Act  isto  prevent  unauthorised  importation	of  goods  and	 thediscretion has to be exercised with that object in view.Learned	  counsel   then  contended  that   the	  order	  ofconfiscation  had been made mala fide.	It was said that  ithad  been  passed  ex-parte.  This is not  correct  for	 thepetitioner had been asked before the order was made  whetherhe wanted a personal hearing and he had stated in reply thathe did not and had ample confidence in the authorities.	  Itis  not therefore open to the petitioner to contend that  hehad  no opportunity of being heard before the order  againsthim was1159passed.	  He  had  been given an  opportunity  and  had	 notavailed himself of it.	It was also stated that in  decidingnot  to give the petitioner an option to pay a fine in	lieuof confiscation the Customs-authority had gone into  certainother	transactions  without  giving  any  notice  to	 thepetitioner  that this would be done.  It was said  that	 thepetitioner  was not given an opportunity of being  heard  inrespect	 of  these  transactions.   The	 notice	 which	 theCustoms-authorities gave to the petitioner to show cause whythe  goods  should  not be  confiscated	 also  informed	 himnecessarily  that  an order for confiscation might  be	madewithout	 an  option to pay a fine in  lieu  of	confiscationbeing  given  and therefore it was his fault if he  did	 notappear	at  the hearing and showed cause why  the  order  ofconfiscation  should not be absolute but should give him  anoption	to  pay a fine.	 It was also said that he  had	beendeprived  of  the  option because of  the  differences	thatexisted between him and the Public Relations Officer of	 theCustoms	 Department  in Calcutta.  This point  of  view	 wassought	to  be supported by citing the cases  of  two  otherpersons who had imported similar goods at or about the	sametime, and who had been given the option.  The facts of theseother cases were however substantially different.  There wasnothing	 to  show in these that goods had been	imported  indeliberate violation of the order of the Government while inthe case of the petitioner there are materials on which sucha  view could be formed.  It appears that the petitioner  asthe  Manager  of a firm called Federal Clearing	 Agency	 hadreceived  a  communication from the  Customs-authorities  onJuly  30,  1953,  that Zip Chains were not  covered  by	 thenotification  of March 16, 1953, and within a  fortnight  ofthat  communication he had placed the orders  for  identicalgoods which he now claims to be within the notification.  Itwas  not unreasonable for the Customs authorities  to  thinkthat  the petitioner had deliberately imported the goods  inbreach	of the order of the Government and without  specificlicence	 for  that purpose, and on that ground to  think  itproper not to give him the option.  This would be so even ifit was1160assumed	 that  in  the dispute	with  the  Public  RelationsOfficer the petitioner was in the right.It  was then stated that the petitioner had not	 been  givenpersonal  hearing  of the appeal that he  preferred  to	 theCentral Board of Revenue and the application in revision  tothe  Government.   But there is no rule of  natural  justicethat  at  every	 stage a person is entitled  to	 a  personalhearing.   Furthermore,	 the appeal was out  of	 time.	 Thememorandum  of	appeal to the Central Board of	Revenue	 wasposted	on  May	 4,  1954.  The time  to  file	the  appeal,however, expired on May 1, 1954, so that even if the date ofthe  posting  is  taken	 as  the  date	of  the	 appeal	 thepetitioner  was out of time.  The petitioner states that  hereceived  the  order of confiscation on	 February  3,  1954.Even  so, on May 4, 1954, he would not be within time.	 Thememorandum  of	appeal however was received by	the  CentralBoard  of Revenue on May 6, 1954.  That must be taken to  bethe  date when the appeal was filed, and that being  so	 theappeal must be taken to have been filed clearly out of time.The   petitioner   stated  that	 the   Customs	 authoritieswrongfully  and	 maliciously procured his arrest on  May  1,1954,  and he obtained his release on May 2, 1954.   It	 wassuggested that this arrest was procured in order to  preventhim  from  filing his appeal in time.	This  contention  isentirely  idle.	  Admittedly, the petitioner had  time	fromFebruary  3, 1954, till May 1, 1954, to file his appeal	 buthe  did not take advantage of this long period.	  He  waitedtill  the  end for filing the appeal.  There is	 nothing  toshow that the arrest was wrongful or that at the date of thearrest	the Customs-authorities had any knowledge  that	 thepetitioner  had not filed his appeal.  The contentions	thatthe order complained of was malafide or that the appeal	 hadnot been filed out of time are entirely untenable.The  result  is	 that  this  application  fails	 and  it  isdismissed with costs.				     Petition dismissed.1161