PETITIONER:DHRANGADHRA CHEMICAL WORKS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE DHRANGADHRA MUNICIPALITY(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:19/05/1959BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1271		  1960 SCR  (1) 388ACT:  Municipality-Regulation of discharge of effluent-Issue  ofnotice-Objection  to such notice and  requisition  specifiedthere  in Scope of enquiry by Special  Officer-Existence  ofnuisance, if can be gone into-Bombay District Municipal Act,1901, as adapted and applied to the State of Saurashtra	 andas amended by Act XI of 1955, s. 153A(3).HEADNOTE: The  respondent Municipality issued a notice  under  sub-s.(1)  Of s. 153A of the Bombay District Municipal Act,  1901,as  adapted  and applied to the State of Saurashtra  and  asamended	 by  Act XI Of 1955, calling upon the  appellant  toshow  cause why it should not be directed to  discharge	 theeffluent  Of it's chemical works in the manner specified  inthe  notice.  On the appellant objecting to the	 notice	 andthe  requisition  contained therein, a Special	Officer	 wasappointed by the Government under sub-s. (3) of that sectionto  hold  an  enquiry in the matter.   The  Special  Officertreated some of the issues raised,, as preliminary issues oflaw and held that the question whether the discharge of	 theeffluent  polluted  the	 water and  adversely  affected	 thefertility  of  the  soil was a	matter	for  the  subjectivesatisfaction of the Municipality and binding on him and	 wasas  such beyond the scope of his enquiry.  The question	 fordetermination in this appeal was whether the Special Officerwas  right in the view he took of s. 153A(3) Of the Act	 andin restricting the scope of the enquiry in the way he did.389  Held,	 that  Special	Officer took a	wrong  view  of	 hisjurisdiction under s. 153A(3) Of the Act and was in error inrestricting the scope of the enquiry.  There	 could be no doubt on a proper appreciation  of	 thescheme	laid  down by the provision of s. 153A of  the	Act,correctly construed, that while the subjective	satisfactionof  the	 Municipality as to the existence  of  the  nuisancecould not be questioned at the initial stage when it  soughtto  put	 the machinery provided by sub-s. (1) in  motion  orunder  sub-s.  (2) where such existence	 was  admitted,	 thesituation  contemplated by sub-s. (3) where the	 notice	 andthe   requisition   were  wholly  disputed,  and   no	meremodification   of  the	requisition  sought,  was   entirelydifferent.   The	language of sub-s. (3) and particularly the words  "to  hold  an enquiry into the matter " used  by	 it  clearlyindicated  that where there was such a contest, it  was	 theduty of the Special Officer to enquire into the existence ofthe alleged nuisance and come to a finding of his own.	 Thestatus	of the Special Official and powers conferred on	 himby  the	 relevant provisions of the Act,  clearly  indicatedthat  sub-s.  (3) was intended by the Legislature  to  be  aprotection  against any arbitrary exercise-of its  power  bythe Municipality.  It  was  of the utmost importance  that  such	 proceedingsshould in the interest of the community, be disposed of withall possible expedition.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.  173  of1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly  16,  1958,  of the  Special  Officer  appointed  undersection	 153(3) of the Bombay District Municipal  Act,	1901(Bombay	 Act No. 1 1 1 of 1901), as applied  to	 Saurashtra,Zalawad Division, Surendarnagar.			    ANDORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 174 of 1958.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental Rights.Purshottam Tricumdas, P. N. Bhagwati, Tanibhai D. Desai	 andI. N. Shroff, for the appellant and petitioner.  N. C.	 Chatterjee, S. K. Kapur and A. G. Ratnaparkhi,	 forthe  respondent	 in  appeal  and respondent  No.  2  in	 thepetition.  B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 3 in petition.390   1959.   May 19.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby   IMAMJ.-The  case of the respondent Municipality was	thatthe  appellant's chemical works discharged effluent in	verylarge quantities containing calcium, sodium and other  saltsthrough Katcha Channels thereby corrupting potable water  ofthe  wells in the surrounding area so as to render it  unfitfor  use and also prejudicially affecting the  fertility  ofthe  soil  in  the surrounding	area  by  percolation.	 Therespondent  Municipality accordingly, after having  obtainedthe  approval of the Government, issued a notice  dated	 the14th June, 1956, to the appellant under s. 153 A (1) of	 theBombay District Municipal Act, 1901, as adapted and  appliedto the State of Saurashtra and as amended by Act XI of	1955(hereinafter  referred	to  as the Act), to  show  cause  inwriting	 within a period of one month from the date  of	 thereceipt	 of  the  notice why it should not  be	directed  toarrange within a period of nine months from the date of suchdirection  for	the  discharge of  the	effluent  through  acovered pucca drainage and for pumping it over a distance ofabout 8 miles in the  Ran' area of Cutch near Kuda, as shownin the plan annexed to the notice.   The	appellant replied to this notice by a  letter  datedthe  10th  of July, 1956.  According to the  appellant,	 theeffluent  was being discharged until 1943 through  a  KatchaChannel	 running  parallel  to	the  railway  line  in	 thedirection of Halvad.  In 1944 it was felt that as the  waterof  some of the wells in the areas known as  Harijanvas	 andKolivas	 close	to  the vicinity of  the  channel  might  beaffected another channel was constructed for discharging theeffluent,  which  was at a considerable distance  away	fromKolivas and Harijanvas and still further away from the	citywhich lies on the western side of the railway lines  whereasthe  factory  is  at a considerable  distance  away  on	 theeastern side of the railway lines.  It was pointed out	thatduring	the  last 3 or 4 years, periodical  surveys  of	 thewater  of  various wells in the city had been taken  by	 theappellant  and these tests had shown that the water was	 notin' any way polluted by reason of the effluent391being discharged through the existing channels, that all thepapers	and  reports  relating	to  the	 tests	carried	 outperiodically by the appellant were available for  inspectionby  the	 respondent  Municipality and  that  they  could  beinspected  by appointment.  The appellant  further  enquiredwhether	  before   issuing   the   notice   the	  respondentMunicipality had carried out similar tests for analyzing thewater  of  the various wells and that if such  analysis	 hadbeen  made  it might be allowed to inspect  and	 survey	 thereports	 and  other  relevant  papers  connected  therewith.Regarding   the	  fertility  of	 the  soil   the   appellantemphatically  denied  that  the same had  been	in  any	 wayadversely affected by the discharge of the effluent  throughthe  existing channels.	 The appellant further	pointed	 outthat  the  respondent  Municipality's  direction  that	 theappellant  should  arrange  the discharge  of  the  effluentthrough a covered pucca drain for pumping it over a distanceof  about  8  miles as shown in the plan  would	 involve  anexpenditure  of nearly 8 to 9 lakhs of rupees which,  havingregard to the prevailing conditions, would involve a capitaloutlay	of  such  an  enormous	amount	as  to	cripple	 theappellant's  activities.  The appellant further pointed	 outthat the scheme suggested by the respondent Municipality wasimpracticable  and  difficult  to  implement  for  technicalreasons and that the appellant's engineer had been consultedin  that  respect.   Finally,  the  appellant  informed	 therespondent  Municipality  that	in  these  circumstances  itobjected to the requisitions and expressed its inability  tocarry out the same.  The respondent then requested the Government to appoint  aSpecial Officer under the provisions of s. 153 A (3) of	 theAct.   The  Government by its order dated the 17th  of	May,1958, appointed Mr. T.U. Mehta, District and Sessions Judge,Jhalawad  District, as a Special Officer to hold an  enquiryinto the matter and to complete it within three months	fromthe date of the Notification.   When	 the  matter  came before  the	Special	 Officer  herecorded  the  order  which is the  subject  matter  of	 thepresent	 appeal by special leave.  The Special	Officer	 hadframed 7 Issues of which Issues Nos. 1 to 4 were392treated	 by  him  as preliminary Issues of law.	  Of  the  7Issues framed Issue No. 4 was one of the most important onesfor consideration and it was to the following effect:-	      "	 Is it shown that the question	whether	 the	      discharge of the effluent from the factory  of	      the respondent company is polluting water	 and	      adversely	 affects the fertility of the  soil,	      is  a question of the subjective	satisfaction	      of the Municipality and that this question  is	      beyond the scope of the present enquiry ? "Along  with  this Issue, Issue No. 6 had  to  be  consideredwhich was as follows:-it  If	the Point No. 4 is decided in the  negative,  is  itproved	that the effluents discharged by the factory of	 therespondent  corrupt  potable  waters of	 the  wells  in	 thesurrounding area so as to render them unfit for any use, andalso  affect prejudicially the fertility of the soil in	 thesurrounding  area  by  percolation?"  The  Special   Officerdecided	 Issue	No. 4 in the affirmative and held  that	 thequestion whether the discharge of the effluent polluted	 thewater  and adversely affected the fertility of the soil	 wasone  for  the  subjective  satisfaction	 of  the  respondentMunicipality and was beyond the scope of the enquiry  beforehim.   Having  found this he held that Issue No. 6  did	 notarise  for  consideration.   In dealing	 with  Issue  No.  5whether the notice issued by the respondent Municipality wasmala fide, arbitrary, capricious and that the same had	beenissued	without	 the  respondent  Municipality	sufficientlyapplying  its mind, the Special Officer was of	the  opinionthat  it wag, " out of the purview of the present  enquiry."Issues 2 and 3 were decided by the Special Officer in favourof the appellant and need not be referred to for the purposeof the present appeal.	Issue No. I dealt with the  questionwhether ss. 153A to 153G of the Act violated the fundamentalrights of the appellant guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and31  of the Constitution.  It was pointed out by the  SpecialOfficer that during the course of the argument on behalf  ofthe appellant it was not pressed that the393fundamental  rights  covered  by Articles  14  and  31	wereinfringed.  The submission was confined to the	infringementof  Art.  19  of  the  Constitution.   This  contention	 wasrejected by the Special Officer.  The Special Officer in hisorder stated that "The result of the above findings is	thatthis Tribunal shall now proceed to decide the only remainingIssue which is Issue No. 7. I therefore order that the	caseshould proceed with the determination of this Issue."This Issue was in these words:-	      "	 If  it is found that the effluents  of	 the	      factory of the respondents corrupt the potable	      waters  and fertility of the soil, what  final	      recommendation should be made about the method	      and   manner   of	 the  discharge	  of   these	      effluents?"It  was	 urged on behalf of the appellant that	the  SpecialOfficer	 had unduly restricted the scope of the	 enquiry  bytaking	an  erroneous view as to the scope  of	the  enquirybefore	him  and thus had refused to  exercise	jurisdictionwhich  was  vested  in him under the Act.   It	was  furthersubmitted  that	 s. 153A of the Act offends Art. 19  of	 theConstitution.On  behalf  of	the respondent it  was	contended  that	 theSpecial Officer has not erred in holding that the  existenceof a nuisance of the kind mentioned in s. 153A(1) of the Actwas  a	matter	for  the  subjective  satisfaction  of	 therespondent Municipality and beyond the scope of his enquiry.S.  153A  of  the  Act	did  not  offend  Art.	19  of	 theConstitution because it would be a reasonable restriction tothe exercise of the fundamental right under Art. 19(1)(C) toprevent a nuisance which would affect the public health	 andfertility  of  the soil.  Having regard to  the	 submissionsmade  on  behalf of the appellant and the respondent  it  isnecessary  to quote the provisions of ss. 153A and  153B  ofthe Act.	      Section 153A states	      "Regulation    of	  discharge   of    effluent	      containing   salt	  or  other   chemicals	  by	      factories.	      (1)   If	it be shown to the  satisfaction  of	      the Municipality that the owner or manager  of	      a factory,50394situated  or  located  within the limits  of  the  MunicipalDistrict,   is	discharging  from  such	  factory   effluentcontaining  salt  or  other  chemicals	in  such  manner  asrenders,  or is likely to render, saline the potable  watersof  wells,  tanks,  ponds or  other  water  receptacles,  orcorrupts, or is likely to corrupt, such water in such a	 wayas  to	render	it unfit for any use by	 the  public  or  isprejudicially  affecting,  or is likely to  so	affect,	 thefertility  of  the soil, in the surrounding area  either  bypercolation  or	 otherwise, the Municipality may,  with	 theprevious approval of the Government, issue a written  noticeto  the manager or the owner of such factory, requiring	 himto show cause in writing within a fixed period why he shouldnot  be	 directed to arrange within such period	 as  may  befixed  in  such notice, or as may be extended from  time  totime, for the discharge of such effluents in such manner  asmay  have been previously approved by the Government and  asmay  be	 specified in the notice, so that the  discharge  ofsuch  effluents may not have the effect of rendering  salineor  corrupting	the waters of wells, tanks, ponds  or  otherwater	receptacles,  or  of  prejudicially  affecting	 thefertility of the soil, in surrounding area.(2)  If no reply to the notice given under subsection (1) isreceived from the manager or the owner of the factory withinthe  fixed period, or if a reply is received to	 the  effectthat  the manager or the owner consents to comply with,	 therequisition  in such notice, the Municipality may  forthwithpass  such  order  as may be necessary for  the	 purpose  ofregulating   the  discharge  of	 effluents  in	the   mannerspecified in such notice.(3)  If a reply to the notice given under subsection (1)  isreceived  from	the  manager or the owner  of  the  factory,objecting  or  consenting  subject to  modification  to	 therequisition specified in such notice, the Government  shall,on  a request made to it by the Municipality in this  behalfappoint	 a special judicial officer, who shall not be  belowthe rank of a District Judge (hereinafter referred to as theSpecial Officer), to hold an inquiry into the395	      matter.	The Special Officer shall  make	 the	      inquiry  in  such	 manner	 and  perform	such	      functions	 and  within  such time	 as  may  be	      specified in the order of appointment."	      Section 153B states:	      "	 Report by Special Officer and order  to  be	      passed   by  Municipality	 with  sanction	  of	      Government.	      The Special Officer shall on completion of the	      inquiry entrusted to him under subsection	 (3)	      of  Section  153A,  send	his  report  to	 the	      Municipality  & the Municipality	shall,	with	      the previous approval of the Government,	pass	      an  order in terms of the	 recommendations  of	      such officer."It  was contended on behalf of the appellant that  prior  tothe  issuing of notice under s. 153A (1) the existence of  anuisance  in the terms of the sub-section may be within	 thesubjective  satisfaction  of  the  Municipality	 but   afterissuing the notice different considerations would arise whenthe  provisions	 of sub-s. (3) are (riven  effect  to.	 Thescheme of s. 153A of the Act is to permit the  Municipality,if  it is satisfied that a nuisance in the terms  of  sub-s.(1)  exists' to issue a notice requiring the person to	whomthe  notice  is issued to show cause why he  should  not  bedirected  to  arrange for the discharge of the	effluent  insuch  manner  as may have been previously  approved  by	 theGovernment and as mentioned in the notice so that  renderingsaline	or corrupting the water -of the wells, tanks,  pondsor  other water receptacles, or prejudicially affecting	 thefertility  of  the  -,oil in the surrounding  areas  may  bestopped.  In showing cause the person to whom the notice hasbeen issued may under sub-s. (2) consent to comply with	 therequisition in such, notice upon which the Municipality	 mayforthwith  pass	 such  orders as may be	 necessary  for	 thepurpose	 of regulating the discharge of the effluent in	 themanner	specified in such notice.  Upto this stage there  isno  contest between the Municipality and the person to	whomthe notice has been issued.  The question whether a nuisancein  the terms of sub-s. (1) exists or not did not  arise  asthe person to whom the notice has been issued by his consentand willingness396to comply with the requisition admits the existence of	sucha nuisance. -Different considerations, however, arise  wherethe circumstances attract the provisions of sub-s. (3) and aSpecial Officer has to be appointed.  Under this sub-sectionif the reply to the notice given under sub-s. (1) objects tothe  requisition specified in the notice or consents  to  itsubject to modification, the Government shall on the requestof the Municipality appoint a special judicial officer "  tohold. an inquiry into the matter." It is urged on behalf  ofthe  appellant	that  if the requisition in  the  notice  isobjected  to,  the  objection  includes	 not  only  to	 theallegation of the existence of the nuisance in terms of sub-s.  (1) but also to the direction as to the manner in  whichthe discharge of the effluent shall be made.  The  objectionbeing in regard to both the matters, it was the bounden dutyof  the Special Officer to hold an enquiry with	 respect  tothe   entire  matter  in  dispute.   At	 this	stage,	 thesatisfaction of the Municipality as to the existence of	 thenuisance   alleged  inevitably	becomes	 justiciable.	 TheSpecial	 Officer was bound to enquire into the	dispute	 andmake  its report both as to the, existence of  the  nuisanceand  the  direction as to the manner in which  the  effluentshall be discharged.On  behalf of the respondent Municipality it  was  submittedthat  under  sub-s. (1) the satisfaction is  the  subjectivesatisfaction of the Municipality and of no other  authority.The  requisition under this subsection is to the  person  onwhom the notice is issued to show cause why he should not bedirected to arrange for the discharge of the effluent in themanner specified in the notice and not to show cause againstthe  existence of the nuisance.	 Sub-s. (3) deals with	thisrequisition  which is the subject of the enquiry before	 theSpecial	 Officer and not the existence of a  nuisance  whichwas  purely a matter for the subjective satisfaction of	 theMunicipality.	It is contended that where  the	 Legislaturehas conferred on the Municipality jurisdiction to  determinewhether	 a  particular state of fact exists and	 on  findingthat it does exist to proceed further and to do something397more,  then the fact in question is not collateral but is  apart of the very issue which the Municipality has to enquireinto and that ceases to be justiciable. Having	 regard	 to the submissions made on  behalf  of	 theappellant and the respondent it is necessary to construe theprovisions  of	s. 153A of the Act -and	 to  understand	 thescheme set out in its provisions for dealing with a nuisanceof'  the  kind mentioned in subs. (1).	In our	opinion,  tojustify	 the issuing of a notice by the	 Municipality,	withthe  previous approval of the Government, there must  be  inexistence  such	 a  nuisance  to  the  satisfaction  of	 theMunicipality.	The  satisfaction  here	 is  the  subjectivesatisfaction  of  the Municipality and	no  other  authoritycould question the action of the Municipality in issuing thenotice	on  the	 ground	 that it should	 not  have  been  sosatisfied.   Once the notice has issued ordering the  personto whom the notice is issued to show cause why he should notbe directed to arrange for the discharge of the effluent  inthe manner specified in the notice, it is open to the personto whom the notice is issued to accept the assertion of	 theMunicipality  that  the nuisance in question exists  and  toagree to comply with the direction to arrange the  dischargeof  the effluent in the manner specified by the notice.	  Insuch a case, the Municipality may forthwith pass such ordersas  may	 be  necessary for the	purpose	 of  regulating	 thedischarge  of  the effluent in the manner specified  in	 thenotice.	  In  our opinion, this authority is  given  to	 theMunicipality because the person to whom the notice has	beenissued	does  not  deny the existence  of  the	nuisance  inquestion  and is prepared to comply with requisition in	 thenotice	without	 any objection.	 If the person to  whom	 thenotice	has  been issued does not reply to  the	 notice	 theMunicipality  may forthwith pass a similar order.   In	boththese  cases there is no dispute about the existence of	 thenuisance   in	question  and  what   was   the	  subjectivesatisfaction  of  the  Municipality is	admitted  to  be  inaccordance with the existing facts.  Sub-s. (2) of s. 153  Acovers such a situation,398Sub-s.	(3)  of	 s. 153A deals	with  a	 situation  entirelydifferent  from that which arises under sub-s.	(2).   Undersub-s. (3) two situations arise (1) where the person to whomthe notice has been issued objects to it and the requisitioncontained therein and (2) where he consents to it subject tomodification.	In  both cases the Government shall  on	 therequest made by the Municipality, appoint a judicial officernot  below the rank of a District Judge to hold	 an  enquiryinto the matter.  It will be noticed that while under sub-s.(2)   the  consent  and	 willingness  to  comply  with	 therequisition  in the notice is absolute under sub-s.(3)	evenif the person to whom the notice has been issued consents tothe  requisition subject to modification the consent is	 notabsolute.   That is to say, some dispute between the  personconcerned and the Municipality remains outstanding as to themanner	of  carrying it out and that dispute  would  be	 thesubject	 of  an	 enquiry by the Special	 Officer.   In	thissituation also, the existence of the nuisance is  implicitlyadmitted  at-id need not be enquired into.  Where,  however,the   person  concerned	 objects  to  the  notice  and	 therequisition contained therein absolutely the objection is insubstance to the issue of the notice itself, which means  heobjects	 to  the  declaration of  the  Municipality  that  anuisance  exists  as  well  as	to  the	 direction  of	 theMunicipality as to the manner in which the effluent shall bedischarged.   If  sub-s. (3) was intented to mean  that	 theperson	to whom the notice has been issued could not  objectto the assertion of the Municipality that a nuisance existedthen  the  words  "   objecting	 or  consenting	 subject  tomodification to the requisition " would not find a place  inthe subsection because in that case it would have been quitesufficient  to	have  used in the sub-section  the  words  "consenting subject to the modification to the  requisition."The  words  "to hold an enquiry into the  matter  "  clearlysuggest	 that  the  Special Officer must  enquire  into	 theentire matter where a party objects absolutely to the noticeand  the  requisition contained therein.  There	 would	havebeen  no  need	for the appointment of	a  special  judicialofficer not below the rank of a District Judge as a  SpecialOfficer if such399Officer	 was not required to enquire into the  existence  ofthe  nuisance.	If the existence of a nuisance	was  assumedbecause that was a matter for the subjective satisfaction ofthe  Municipality,  then  it would not	require	 a  judicialofficer	 of  the  rank of a District Judge  to	enquire	 andreport only as to the manner in which the effluent should bedischarged.   That task could be performed by engineers	 andexperts in such matters.In  our opinion, the scheme under s. 153A is to leave it  tothe  subjective satisfaction of the Municipality as  to	 theexistence  of  a nuisance before a notice is issued  to	 theparty  concerned. Sub-s. (1) does not deal with any  enquiryinto  the matter.  It merely provides a machinery  by  whichthe  scheme  of s. 153 A is set in  motion.   No  difficultyarises once a notice has been issued and the party concernedconsents to it absolutely or does not choose to reply to it.Under  sub-s.(3),  however,  the appointment  of  a  SpecialOfficer was considered necessary because the dispute betweenthe   Municipality   and  the	party	concerned   requiredinvestigation and a report from the Officer.  Under s. 153Ethe Special Officer shall have the same powers as a    CivilCourt has while trying a suit under the Code of	  CivilProcedure in the following matters:-	      "(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of	      any person and examining him on oath;	      (b) requiring the discovery and production  of	      any documents;	      (c)   receiving evidence on affidavits;	      (d)   requisitioning any public record or copy	      there of from any court or office;	      (e)   issuing commissions for the	 examination	      of witnesses or documents;	      (f)   any	  other	  matters   which   may	  be	      prescribed."Under  s. 153F there is a provision for the  appointment  ofassessors  to  advise the Special Officer on  any  technicalmatter.	  Under s. 153G the proceedings before	the  SpecialOfficer	 shall be deemed to be judicial	 proceedings  withinthe  meaning  of sections 193 and 228 of  the  Indian  PenalCode.	These provisions make it clear that the	 Legislatureintended, where there was400an  absolute  objection to the notice  and  the	 requisitioncontained  therein as in the present case, that the  disputebetween	 the Municipality and the party concerned 'would  beenquired  into	by  a  judicial officer of  the	 rank  of  aDistrict  Judge.  Sub.s. (3) was a protection to  the  partyobjecting  to the requisition.	In these circumstances,	 theenquiry	 must necessarily relate to the entire	dispute	 andthe  words "  to hold an enquiry into the matter " are	wideenough	to suggest this.  The Legislature intended that	 theparty to whom. the notice had been issued should not be	 thevictim	of exercise of any power vested in the	Municipalityin a capricious manner.The  Special Officer apparently made no attempt to  construethe provisions of sub-s. (3) of s. 153A of the Act.  In	 ouropinion, he erred in holding that it was beyond the scope ofhis  enquiry to enquire into the question whether, in  fact,the  nuisance alleged by the Municipality existed.   He	 hadthus  denied. himself the jurisdiction-which he did  possessand  which  he ought to have exercised.	 It  is	 plain	thatbefore the appellant could be called upon to comply with therequisition of the respondent Municipality involving severallakhs of rupees as expenditure the Special Officer ought  todecide and report whether a nuisance of the kind alleged  bythe respondent Municipality existed.  The appellant  rightly-contends that the order of the Special Officer declining togo  into  the  question whether	 the  nuisance	in  questionexisted was one which ought to be set aside.  As,  in  our	opinion, the  Special  Officer	had  wronglydecided that lie could not go into the question whether	 thenuisance  existed  his order must - be	set  aside.   Havingregard	to the view which we take, the contention on  behalfof  the appellant that the provisions of s. 153A of the	 Actoffend	Art. 19 of the Constitution does not require  to  bedecided; this position is conceded by the appellant.  We  must  point out, however, that the enquiry  should  becompleted  without undue delay.	 The notice was	 issued	 ;inJune,  1956, nearly 3 years ago.  Proceedings of  this	kindought to be handled with the utmost401expedition because if a nuisance exists it should be removedwithout	 delay	in  order  to preserve	the  health  of	 thecommunity and the fertility of the soil.The appeal is accordingly allowed with costs. A  petition  (No.  174	 of  1958)  under  Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution  was  also	 filed	by  the	 appellant.   It  isunnecessary  to pass any formal order on this  petition	 as,the  appellant has succeeded in the Civil Appeal No. 173  of1959,  and it is disposed of accordingly except	 that  therewill be no order for costs in this petition.			      Appeal allowed.