PETITIONER:SHRI B. P. HIRA, WORKS MANAGER,CENTRAL RAILWAY, PAREL, BOMBA	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI C. M. PRADHAN ETC.DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/05/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1226		  1960 SCR  (1) 137ACT:Overtime  Wages-Claim  by  employees  in  railway   factory-Validity-Factories  Act, 1948 (LXIII of 1948), SS.  2(1),59-The  Bombay Shops and Establishments Act, 1948 (Bom.  79  of1948). SS. 4, 70.HEADNOTE:These appeals by special leave arose from applications	madeby the respondents, who were employed as timekeepers in	 thetime  office  of the Central Railway Workshop  and  Factory,Parel, Bombay, claiming payment of overtime wages under	 thePayment	 of  Wages Act, 1936 (4 of 1936).  The case  of	 therespondents was that they were workers within the meaning ofS.  2(1) of the Factories Act, 1948 (LXIII Of 1948)  and  assuch were entitled to overtime wages under s. 59 of the saidAct.   Alternatively, they urged that even if they were	 notworkers within the meaning of S. 2(1) of the said Act,	theywould  nevertheless be entitled to overtime wages under	 thes.  59	by  reason  Of	s.  70	of  the	 Bombay	 Shops	 andEstablishments Act, 1948 (Bom. 79 of 1948).  The validity ofthe claim on both the grounds was disputed by the appellant.The Authority under the Payment of Wages Act found that onlyfour of the respondents, who were required to do the work ofprogress  timekeepers,	could claim the	 status	 of  workerswithin	the meaning Of S. 2(1) Of the Factories Act and	 therest  were  merely  employees  of  the	workshop,  but	 theAuthority accepted the alternative case made by the respond-ents and directed the appellant to file a statement  showingthe  overtime  wages  due to each  of  the  respondents	 andordered it to pay the same.Held, that the Authority was right in the view that it	tookOf  S. 70 Of the Bombay Shops and Establishments Act,  1948,and its decision must be affirmed.On  a  proper construction Of S. 70 Of the Act it  is  clearthat  the first part of the section excludes a	factory	 andits employees from the operation of the Act; but the  secondpart  makes  the relevant provisions of	 the  Factories	 Actapplicable to them.  The non-obstante clause in the  sectionshows  that the employees in a factory, although they  mightnot  be	 workers  within  the meaning  Of  S.  2(1)  of	 theFactories  Act,	 are  entitled to claim	 overtime  wages  asprovided for by that Act.It  is not correct to say that S. 4 Of the Bombay Shops	 andEstablishments	Act, 1948, has the effect of  excluding	 theoperation  Of S. 70 Of the Act.	 Section 4 applies  only  toestablishments and not to factories; but even if it applied,to factories18138that cannot materially affect the application Of s. 70 whichis intended to operate not withstanding the other provisionsof the Act.Consistently  with its policy, the Act, which  provides	 forovertime wages for employees in all establishments, providesfor  overtime  wages for employees in factories as  well  bymaking	 the  relevant	provisions  of	the  Factories	 Actapplicable to them.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos.131 to	 304of 1957.Appeals by special leave from the judgments and order  datedOctober	 19,  1955 and January 31, 1956,  of  the  Authorityunder  Payment	of Wages Act, Bombay, in  Applications	Nos.950-961,  963-967, 970-989, 992, 994-1013, 1015-1016,  1049-1050 and 11510-11511 and 11513-11517 of 1955 respectively.M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, R. Ganapathy Iyerand R. H. Dhebar, for the appellants.Purshottam   Tricumdas	and  G.	 N.  Srivastava,   for	 therespondents in all the appeals except C. A. No. 186 of 1957.1959 May 8. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR J.-This group of 174 appeals by special leavearises from the several applications made against Mr. B.  P.Hira,  Works Manager, Central Railway Workshop and  Factory,Parel,	Bombay	(hereafter  called  the	 appellant)  by	 theemployees   at	the  said  factory  (hereafter	called	 therespondents)  under  the Payment of Wages Act, 1936  (IV  of1936)  claiming payment of overtime wages since	 1948.	 Allthese  applications  were  heard by  the  Payment  of  WagesAuthority,  Bombay, as companion matters and they have	beendisposed  of by a common judgment.  The main  judgment	has,however,  been	delivered  by  the  said  Authority  in	 theapplication filed by Mr. C. M. Pradhan (hereafter called therespondent) which gives rise to Civil Appeal No. 131 of 1957before	us.  We would, therefore, deal with this  appeal  inparticular  and our decision in this appeal will govern	 therest of the appeals in this group.139In  his	 application  made  before  the	 Payment  of   WagesAuthority  the respondent alleged that he had been  employedin  the	 factory  called the Central  Railway  Workshop	 andFactory,  Parel,  Bombay,  and that he	had  not  been	paidovertime  wages due to him from April 1, 1949, to  September30, 1954.  The respondent claimed that the delay made by himin filing the present application should be condoned becausejointly	 with his co-workers he had been  in  correspondencewith  the  railway  administration in  regard  to  the	saidpayment	 of  overtime wages since, 1948 and that  the  claimmade by him and his colleagues had been finally rejected  bythe railway administration on August 31, 1954.	His case wasthat  he had filed the present application  soon  thereafterand so the delay made by him ,in making the claim before theAuthority  should  be  condoned.  The  Authority  heard	 theparties	 on the; question of delay and held that  the  delayonly  in respect of the claim for the period after May	1953should	be condoned.  In the result the claim  for  overtimewages for the period prior to May 19, 1953, was rejected  onthe  preliminary ground of delay whereas the claim. for	 theperiod	subsequent  to the said date was considered  on	 themerits.The  respondent's  case	 was that he  was  entitled  to	 theovertime  wages	 for work on such Sundays when	he  was	 notgiven  a  holiday within three days prior to or	 three	dayssubsequent to the Sundays on which he worked.  The appellantconceded  that the respondent had not been given  a  holidaywithin the three days prior to or the three days  subsequentto  the Sundays on which he had worked as required by s.  52of the Indian Factories Act.  The respondent alleged that hewas  a worker within the meaning of s. 2, sub-s. (1) of	 thesaid  Factories	 Act  (LXIII of 1948) and  as  such  he	 wasentitled  to  overtime	wages under s 59 of  the  said	Act.Alternatively  he  urged that even if he was  not  a  workerwithin	the  meaning of s. 2(1) of the said  Act,  he  wouldnevertheless be entitled to overtime wages under the said s.59 by reason of s. 70 of the Bombay Shops and EstablishmentsAct,  1948  (Bom. 79 of 1948) (hereafter  called  the  Act).Thus the claim for140overtime wages was made by the respondent on two alternativegrounds.The  appellant disputed the validity of this claim.  It	 wasurged  on  its behalf that the respondent was not  a  workerunder s. 2(1) of the Factories Act and that s. 70 of the Actdid   not  justfy  the	claim  alternatively  made  by	 therespondent for overtime wages.The  Authority	considered  the evidence led  before  it  inrespect	 of  all  the repondents  for  overtime	 wages.	  Itappears that these respondents are employed by the appellantin  the	 time office of the Parel Workshop and	not  in	 thefactory	 itself.   The duties of these	timekeepers  are  tomaintain initial records of attendance of workshop staff, toprepare	  pay-sheets  for  them	 to  maintain  their   leaveaccounts,  to dispose of final settlement cases of the	saidstaff  and to maintain records for statistical	information.The   Authority	 held  that  the  time	office	 where	 thetimekeepers  work is an integral part of the factory and  soit came to the conclusion that the timekeepers are  employedin  the	 factory  called the Central  Railway  Workshop	 andFactory, Parel, Bombay.The  Authority then examined the question as to whether	 thetimekeepers are workers within the meaning of s. 2(1) of theFactories  Act.	 Evidence showed that four timekeepers,	 arerequired to do the work of progress timekeepers.  This	workconsists in preparing the progress time-sheets and operationtime-sheets  of machine-shop staff working on  various	jobsdealing	 with  the production of railway spare	parts.	 TheAuthority  was disposed to take the view that having  regardto  the	 nature of the work assigned to the  progress  time-keepers	 they  must be held to be persons employed  in	workincidental  to, or connected with the manufacturing  processor the subject of the manufacturing process and as such theyare  workers within the meaning of s. 2(1) of the  FactoriesAct.   In the result, the finding made by the Authority	 wasthat timekeepers are employees of the workshop, but are	 notworkers	 under the Factories Act; while the  progress  time-keepers can claim the status of workers under the said Act.141The Authority then considered the respondent's argument thateven  if he was not a worker under the Factories Act he	 wasneverthless  entitled to claim the benefit of s. 59  of	 thesaid  Act  by  virtue of s. 70 of the  Act.   The  Authorityaccepted  this	contention  and	 held  that,  even  if	 therespondent  was not a worker under the Factories Act, s.  70of the Act entitled him to claim overtime wages under s.  59of  the	 Factories Act.	 That is why the  Authority  orderedthat the respondents would be entitled for the period  19-5-1953  to 30-9-1954 to overtime wages at double the  ordinaryrate for the Sundays on which they worked when they were notgiven  a  a  holiday on one of the  three  days	 immediatelypreceding  or  after  the said Sunday.	 The  appellant	 wasaccordingly  directed  to  file	 a  statement  showing	 theovertime  wages	 to  which  the	 several  respondents	wereentitled  and  orders  were  passed  on	 each  one  of	 theapplications  directing the appellant to pay the  respectiveamounts	 to.  each one of the respondents.  -It	 is  againstthese orders that the appellant has filed the present  groupof appeals by special leave.The  first  point  which has been urged	 before	 us  by	 thelearned Attorney-General on behalf of the appellant is	thatthe  Authority	was in error in holding	 that  the  progresstimekeepers are workers under s. 2(1) of the Factories	Act.A  worker under s. 2(1) means a person employed directly  orthrough	 any  agency,  whether	for wages  or  not,  in	 anymanufacturing  process,	 or  in cleaning  any  part  of	 themachinery or premises used for manufacturing process, or  inany other kind of work incidental to, or connected with, themanufacturing  process, or the subject of the  manufacturingprocess;  and the manufacturing process under s. 2(k)  meansany process for inter alia (1) making, altering,  repairing,ornamenting, finishing, packing, oiling, washing,  cleaning,breaking-up,  demolishing or otherwise treating or  adaptingany  article  or  substance with a view to  its	 use,  sale,transport,  delivery  or  disposal.  It is  clear  that	 theduties	of the progress timekeepers do not fall	 within	 thefirst part of a. 2(k).	The Authority has however,142held  that the said duties can be treated as incidental	 to,or connected with, the manufacturing process or the  subjectof  manufacturing  process; it is the  correctness  of	thisfinding that is challenged by the appellant.On  the	 other hand, Mr. Purshottam,  for  the	respondents,argues	that the Authority was in error in holding that	 thetimekeepers are not workers under s. 2 (1).  His  contentionis  that the expression "incidental to, or  connected  with,the  manufacturing process " is wide enough to	include	 notonly the cases of the progress timekeepers but the cases  ofall timekeepers as a class.  It is true that the finding  ofthe.Authority  in respect of the timekeepers is against	 therespondents; but Mr. Purshottam says that he is entitled  tosupport	 the  final  order passed by the  Authority  on	 theadditional ground that the time. keepers, like the  progresstimekeepers, are workers under s. 2(1) and as such they	 areentitled  to  claim  overtime  wages  under  s.	 59  of	 theFactories Act.The  final decision of the Authority is, however,  based  onthe  view that under s. 70 of the Act the respondents  wouldbe  entitled to overtime wages under s. 59 of the  FactoriesAct even if they are not workers under s. 2(1).	 That  beingso,  we	 think	it  is	necessary  first  to  consider	 thecorrectness  of	 this  view.   If  the	conclusion  of	 theAuthority on the scope and effect of the provisions of s. 70of  the	 Act  is correct, then it would	 be  unnecessary  toconsider   whether   the  timekeepers	and   the   progresstimekeepers are workers under s. 2(1) of the Factories	Act.We would, therefore, deal with that question first.It appears that there are three statutes which pro. vide forthe  payment of extra wages for overtime work.	The  provisoto  s. 71 (c) of the Indian Railways Act (IX of	 1890)	laysdown that the exempted railway servant specified in it shallbe  paid  for overtime at not less than one  and  a  quartertimes  his  ordinary rate of pay.  This provision  has	beensubsequently amended by Act 59 of 1956, which makes the ratefor  overtime  one and one-half times the ordinary  rate  ofpay; but it is common ground that we are not143concerned with the amended provision in these appeals  sincethe respondents' claim is for. a period prior to the date ofthe  amendment.	 It is suggested by the appellant  that	 therespondents are railway servants under s. 3 (7) of the	saidAct,  and as such they may be entitled to make a  claim	 forovertime  wages under the said proviso; but the	 respondentshave  not made, and do not wish to make, a claim  under	 thesaid provision; and so the question as to the application ofthe  said section need not detain us.  If  the	constructionplaced on s. 70 of the Act by the Authority is correct,	 theclaims	of  employees who are working in a  factory  in	 theState  of Bombay would be governed by that  provision;	thisposition is not seriously disputed before us.Section 59 of the Factories Act also deals with the questionof extra wages for overtime.  It provides for the payment ofwages  in respect of overtime work at the rate of twice	 theordinary rate of wages.	 This benefit is, however, availableonly  to  persons who are workers within the meaning  of  s.2(1)  of the said Act Since we are dealing with the case  onthe  assumption that the respondents are not -workers  unders'  2(1)  it  follows  that s. 59 by  itself  would  not  beapplicable to them.The Bombay Shops and Establishments Act, 1948, is the  thirdstatute	 which	makes a provision for the payment  of  extrawages  for overtime work.  Section 63 of the Act deals	withthis  topic.   Section	63(1) provides for  the	 payment  ofovertime  work at the rate of 1-1/2 times the ordinary	rateof wages in the case of employees in any establishment otherthan  a	 residential  hotel,  restaurant,  or  eating-house,whereas	 sub-s. (2) provides for wages for overtime  at	 therate  of  twice	 the ordinary rate of wages  in	 respect  ofemployees in a residential hotel, restaurant or eatinghouse,subject	 to  the  other conditions  specified  in  the	saidsection.   It is clear that this section does not  apply  tothe respondents because they are employees in a factory	 andnot in any of the establishments enumerated in its two	sub-sections.144The respondents' case, however, is that by virtue of s. 70of  the.  Act the provisions of the Factories  Act,includinga.  59,	 are  extended	to the cases  of  all  employees  infactories,  and	 so  they are entitled to  claim  wages	 forovertime under the said section of the Factories Act.	Thiscontention  has	 been upheld by the Authority.	 It  is	 notdisputed  by the appellant that the Bombay  Legislature	 wascompetent  to prescribe for the extension of the  provisionsof  the Factories Act to employees in the  factories  withinthe territory of the State of Bombay; and since sanction forthis  legislation has been duly obtained from the  Governor-General	 of India on January 3, 1949(1), no  question  aboutany repugnance between the provisions of s. 70 and those  ofthe Factories Act can possibly arise.  Thus the validity  ofthe  said section is not in dispute; and so the	 only  pointwhich calls for our decision is one of construction: Does s.70  supplement	the  provisions	 of  the  Factories  Act  byextending  them	 to  all employees  in	factories  like	 therespondents though they are not workers under s. 2(1) of thesaid Act ?Before	dealing	 with this point it is	necessary  to  referbriefly to the broad features of the Act.  The Act no  doubtis  a  piece of beneficent social  legislation	intended  toserve  the cause of labour welfare.  It has been  passed  inorder  to  consolidate	and amend the law  relating  to	 theregulation  and conditions of work and employment in  shops,commercial establishments, residential hotels,	restaurants,eating-houses,	theaters, other places of public  amusementsand  entertainments  and other establishments.	 Section  2,sub-ss.	  (3),	 (4)  and  (27)	  define   respectivly	 theestablishment,	commercial  establishment  and	shop.	 Thedefinitions  of	 commercial establishment and  shop  excludeinter  alia factory.  Establishment is defend as  meaning  ashop,	 commercial   establishment,   residential    hotel,restaurant,  eating-house, theatre or other place of  publicamusement  are	entertainment to which the Act	applies	 andincludes  such other establishment as the  State  Governmentmay by notification in the official gazette declare(1) Published in the Bombay Government Gazette, Part IV,dated 11-1-1949.145to  be, an establishment for the purposes of this  Act.	  Itwould  be  noticed that the definition of  establishment  isvery wide, and it does not purport to be exhaustive  becauseit expressly empowers the State Government to include withinits   purview  by  notification	 other	establishments	 notspecified in it.  Section 2, sub-s. (6) defines an  employeeas  meaning a person wholly or principally employed in,	 andin  connection	with,  any establishment,  and	includes  anapprentice  but does not include a member of the  employer'sfamily.	  This	definition  shows that the  Act	 intends  toconfer the benefit of its provision on all persons who	fallwithin the wide definition of the expression " Employee ".It is necessary at this stage to refer to the definition  of"factory" under the Act.  Section 2(9) defines a factory  asmeaning	 any premises which is a factory within the  meaningof  cl. (m) of s. 2 of the Factories Act or which is  deemedto be a factory under s. 85 of the said Act.Now  s.	 2(m)  of the Factories Act  defines  a	 factory  asmeaning	 any premises including the precincts  thereof"  (i)	whereon	 ten or more workers are  working,  or	wereworking	 on any day of the preceding twelve months,  and  inany  part of which a manufacturing process is being  carriedon with the aid of power, or is ordinarily so carried on, or(ii) whereon  twenty  or more workers are working,  or	wereworking	 on any day of the preceding twelve months,  and  inany  part of which a manufacturing process is being  carriedon  without  the aid of power, or is ordinarily	 so  carriedon,-but does not include a mine subject to the operation of	 theMines Act, 1952 (XXXV of 1952), or a railway running shed; "and  s.	 85  confers authority on the  State  Government  toextend the definition of factory to other places subject  tothe  requirements  specified  in the said  section.   It  iscommon	ground	that  the place where  the  respondents	 areemployed  is a factory under s. 2(m) of the  Factories	Act,and so it satisfies the definition of s. 2(9) of the Act.19146The  scheme of the Act shows that it deals  separately	withshops  and commercial establishments (ch. 111),	 residentialhotels, restaurants and eating-houses (ch., IV) and theatersand  other  places of public amusement (ch.   V).   Separateprovisions   are   made	  to   regulate	  these	   differentestablishments	having regard to the special needs  of	eachone  of	 them.	 There	are,  however,	general	  provisionsapplicable  to and regulating all the  establishments  alikeand  these  are found in chs.  VI to IX. It  is	 significantthat  with the exception of s. 70, no other section  of	 theAct deals with factories.We  have  already  noticed that	 in  defining  "  commercialestablishment  "  and  " shop "	 respectively  the  Act	 hasexpressly excluded " factories " from the said	expressions.It is true that the definition of " establishment " does notexpressly  exclude factory; but it is plain that factory  istreated by the Act as separate and distinct and there can beno  doubt  that	 the provisions in the Act  which  apply  toestablishment  are  not intended to, and do  not,  apply  tofactories.   In	 other	words, though the  definition  of  "establishment " is wide enough, it does not include  factoryfor  the  purposes  of the Act.	 It is	conceivable  that  akitchen	 attached  to an establishment	like  a	 residentialhotel may satisfy the definition of factory; but it seems tous  that such an adjunct of an establishment is prima  facienot  intended by the Act to be treated apart and  separatelyfrom the main establishment itself, and so it would be takenas  a  part  of the establishment and  be  governed  by	 theprovisions  of	the Act in relation  thereto.	The  factorywhere  the respondents are employed is not  connected  with,much less an inseparable adjunct of, any establishment,	 andso this academic aspect of the matter which was incidentallyposed before us by the learned Attorney-General need not  bepursued any further in the present appeal.The  conclusion of the Authority has been challenged by	 theappellant  on  the ground that s. 70 on which  it  is  basedcannot	be invoked by the respondents.	In support  of	thisargument  reliance is placed on s. 4 of the Act.  Section  4provides that notwithstanding anything contained in the	 Actits provisions mentioned			    147in  the	 third	column of sch. 11 shall	 not  apply  to	 theestablishments,	  employees  and  other	 persons   mentionedagainst them in the second column of the said schedule.	 Theproviso	 to this section authorises the State Government  toadd  to,  omit	or  alter any of the  entries  in  the	saidschedule  in the manner indicated( by it.  It is urged	thatthe establishment of any railway administration is mentionedas sr. no. 5 in sch.  II and the entry against it in col.  3of  the said schedule shows that the provisions of  the	 Actare  inapplicable  to  the  said  establishments.   If	 theestablishment  in question is exempted from the	 applicationof  all the provisions of the Act, how can s. 70 be said  toapply  to  it?	asks the learned  Attorney-General.   It  isobvious	  that	 s.   4	 mentions  and	 applies   only	  toestablishments	and it has no application to factories;	 andwe  are dealing with employees in a factory.  Indeed  as  wehave already observed, no provision of the Act except s.  70applies	 to factories and so it would not be  legitimate  tobase any argument on the assumption that s.  4 is applicableto the present case.Incidentally the learned Attorney-General suggested,  thoughfaintly, that the establishments mentioned at sr. nos.	1 to6  in col. 2 of sch.  II are wider than and  different	fromthe  establishment as defined by s. 2(8).  We do  not  thinkthat this suggestion is well-founded.  There can be no doubtthat s. 4 grants exemptions to the said establishments	fromthe  application  of the provisions mentioned in col.  3  ofsch.   II;  and	 that itself postulates	 that  but  for	 theexemption thus granted the provisions of the Act would	haveapplied	 to them.  Indeed the scheme of sch. 11	 shows	thatwhereas all the provisions of the Act are made	inapplicableto the establishments and offices enumerated at sr. nos.   1to  6 including 6(a) to 6(k), in regard to the others  whichare  enumerated	 at  sr.  nos.	7 to  55  it  is  only	someprovisions of the Act specified in col. 3 that are excluded.In  other  words, the remaining sections  not  so  specifiedwould  apply to them.  If that is so, they must be  and	 areestablishments under s. 2(8) of the Act.148In this connection it must be borne in mind thats.     2(8)empowers the State Government to include by notification anyoffice	  or   institution   within   the   definition	  ofestablishment;	and so the inclusion of any such  office  orinstitution  in	 col.  2  of  sch.  11	would  make  it	 -anestablishment  under  the  Act,	 and as	 such  it  would  begoverned by it subject of course to the corresponding  entryin  col. 3. That is why we think that the suggestion of	 thelearned Attorney-General as to the denotation and  characterof  establishments enumerated in sr. nos.  1 to 5 in col.  2of   sch.   11	cannot	be  accepted.	All   the   offices,establishments and other institutions mentioned in col. 2 ofsch.  II are and must be held to be establishments under  s.2(8).In regard to the argument that the operation of s.     4excludes the application of s. 70 we have held that s. 4applies	 only  to establishments and not to  factories.	 Buteven if s. 4 is assumed to be applicable to factories, we donot  think it would materially affect the application of  s.70.   The  plain  object underlying s. 70  and	its  contextemphatically  point  out  that it  is  intended	 to  operateindependently of the other provisions of the Act and in thatsense  it stands apart from them.  It is this aspect of	 thematter which is clarified by the Legislature by laying	downin s. 70 that nothing in the Act shall be deemed to apply toany  persons  employed	in  the	 factory.   That,   however,anticipates the argument on the construction of s., 70.	 Letus therefore,cite the said section and construe it.Section 70 provides that nothing in this Act shall be deemedto  apply to any person employed in or within the  precinctsof a factory and the provisions of the Factories Act  shall,notwithstanding	 anything  in the said Act,  apply  to	suchperson.	 This section consists of two parts.  The first partmakes it clear that no provision in the Act shall be  deemedto  apply to the persons specified in it.   The	 Legislatureknew  that in fact the Act contained no provision  which  interms or expressly applies to any such person; but in  orderto  remove  any	 possible  doubt it  has  provided  that  noprovision  in the Act shall even by inference or fiction  bedeemed to apply to them.  In other words this clause			    149is intended to clarify the position that though factory	 hasbeen defined by s. 2(9) of the Act, no provision of the	 Actis intended to be applied to a factory or employees in.	 it.Having	clarified  this	 position the  second  part  of	 thesection extends the application of the Factories Act to	 thesaid persons.It  would have been possible for the Legislature to  includein  the present statute all the relevant provisions  of	 theFactories  Act	and  make them applicable  to  factories  asdefined	 by s. 2(9); but apparently the Legislature  thoughtthat the same object can be achieved by enacting the  secondpart  of s. 70.	 This part provides that the  provisions  ofthe  Factories	Act shall apply to the persons	in  questionnotwithstanding	 anything  contained in the said  Act.	 Thesaid Act contains the provision by which workers are definedunder  s. 2(1), and it necessarily involves the	 consequencethat  the relevant provision about the payment	of  overtimewages  applies	only  to  workers  as  defined	and  not  toemployees  in  factories  who are not  workers.	  It  is  inreference  to  this provision that s. 70 has  provided	thatnotwithstanding	 the said provision the relevant  provisionsof  the	 Factories Act will apply to persons employed  in  afactory.   The non-obstante clause in s. 70 thus serves	 thepurpose of clarifying the position that the Factories Act ismade applicable to employees in factories and that they	 arenot  governed  by any of the provisions of  the	 Act.	Thisconclusion  is obviously consistent -with the policy of	 theAct.   It  has	itself made provision  for  the	 payment  ofovertime wages to employees in all establishments by s.	 63;and   it  has  made  applicable	 inter	alia  the   relevantprovisions  of the Factories Act in regard to  employees  infactories.  That is the view which the Authority has  taken,and  in our opinion its validity or correctness is not	opento doubt.In  the	 result	 the  orders passed  by	 the  authority	 areconfirmed  and the appeals are dismissed with costs  in	 oneset.			     Appeals dismissed.150