PETITIONER:BIPIN BEHARI SARKAR AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/09/1958BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR   13		  1959 SCR 1324ACT:Criminal  Trial - Pardon, tender of - Refusal by accused  toturn  approver	- Trial of such accused jointly	 with  otheraccused	 Legality  of  - Code of Criminal  Procedure  (V  of1898), ss. 337 and 339.HEADNOTE:The  two  appellants and one other person  were	 accused  ofcommitting a murder.  The second appellant made a confessionbefore	a Magistrate.  The police submitted a  charge  sheetagainst the three accused.  Thereafter the prosecution	madea  prayer to the sub-divisional Magistrate that	 the  secondappellant  may	be tendered a pardon under s. 337,  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure and the Magistrate recorded an order  tothe  effect  that he was tendered a pardon under s.  337  oncondition  of his making a full and true disclosure  of	 thewhole of the circumstances within his knowledge.  Before theCommitting  Magistrate the second appellant stated that	 theconfession made by him was not voluntary and that he did notwish  to become an approver.  The appellants were  committedto  the Court of Sessions and were convicted of	 the  murderand  were  sentenced  to death.	 On appeal  the	 High  Courtconfirmed the conviction and sentence.	It was contended  bythe  appellants	 that  the  second  appellant  having	beentendered  a  pardon the joint trial of	the  appellants	 wasvitiated as it was barred by the proviso to s. 339(I) Of theCode.Held, that there was no effective pardon under s. 337 Of theCode and consequently the provisions of S. 339 did not	comeinto  operation in this case.  A mere tender of pardon	doesnot  attract  the provisions of S. 339 ; there	must  be  anacceptance  of the pardon by the accomplice and he  must  beexamined  as a witness.	 It is only after this that  S.	 339comes  into  play  if the accomplice who  has  accepted	 thepardon	fails  to comply with the conditions  on  which	 thepardon was tendered.  In the present case though a tender ofpardon	was made to the second appellant there was no  proofthat it was accepted by him and as such it could not be saidthat  there  was in existence an effective pardon  under  S.337.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos.	 102and 103 of 1958.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedMarch  28,  1958,  of the Calcutta High	 Court	in  CriminalAppeal No. 428 of 1957 and reference u/s. 374 Cr.  P. C. No.8 of 1957 arising out of the1325judgment and order dated September 21, 1957, of the Court ofthe Sessions Judge of Cooch Behar in Sessions Trial No. 2 of1957 (Sept.  Sessions) (Sessions Case No. 18 of 1957).S.   K. Kapur, for the appellants.B.   Sen, P. K. Ghosh for P. K. Bose, for the respondent.1958.	September  19.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byIMAM  J.-In these appeals the appellants were convicted	 forthe  murder  of Malchand Bhadani.  A charge  under  s.	302,Indian Penal Code had been framed against each of them.	 TheSessions  Judge found that the murder had been committed  inthe  furtherance of their common intention.  In his  opinionas appellant Bipin Behari Sarkar had actually committed	 themurder	he  convicted  this appellant under s.	302  of	 theIndian Penal Code.  He convicted the appellant Bishnu CharanSaha under s. 302/34 of the Indian Penal Code.	He sentencedboth  the appellants to death.	The appellants	appealed  tothe  Calcutta  High Court while the Sessions  Judge  made  areference for the confirmation of the death sentence  passedby him.	 The High Court found the appellants guilty under s.302/34	of the Indian Penal Code.  It accordingly  confirmedthe  sentence  of  death imposed on the	 appellants  by	 theSessions Judge.According  to the prosecution, one Tarachand Bhadani  had  acloth  shop at Mathabhanga in the district of  Cooch  Bihar.He  was	 joint	in  business and mess  with  his  two  sons,Prithiraj  and the deceased Malchand.  The annual  turn-overof  the	 shop  was between Rs. 50,000  to  Rs.	60,000.	  OnDecember  18,  1956,  Tarachand had gone  to  Rajasthan	 andPrithiraj had gone to Falakata Hat.  Accordingly at the shopon  that day Malchand was the only person in-charge  of	 it.At about 8-30 p. m., after the close of the day's  business,Malchand was counting the cash in the iron safe in an  ante-room  of the shop when the appellants with one Sanatan	Das,who was acquitted -at the trial,1326called at the shop.  Malchand came out of the anteroom	intothe  shop  to attend to these late customers.  He  had	leftopen  the  safe and one of its drawers on  the	floor.	 Theappellants purported to make certain purchases and  examinedvarious pieces of cloth.  After selection of the cloth	theywere  put  into	 packets.  Cash	 memoes	 in  duplicate	wereprepared  and signed by Malcliand and the  appellant  BishnuCharan Saha.  The cash memoes had been completely filled in.Two of them had been separated from the cash-memo book,	 butbefore	the 3rd cash-memo could be detached from  the  book,Malchand  was  struck down by the appellants  with  a  heavycutting instrument which they had carried.  The neck was  soseverely  cut  that  the head was nearly  severed  from	 thetrunk.	Just about then, a neighbour called out to  Malchandby  way	 of casual enquiry before retiring  for	 the  night.This so frightened the miscreants that they fled.  The moneyin  the	 open safe was left untouched.	The motive  for	 themurder was to steal the money from the safe.On  December  25, 1956, the police seized  a  sharp  cuttingweapon	variously described as a sword or a dagger.  It	 wasfound  lying close to some shrubbery near  Malchand's  shop.It was stained with human blood.It  was	 a  practice of the shop  of  Tarachand	 Bhadani  todespatch  from	time to time, after  obtaining	Hundis,	 theaccumulated  proceeds of the business to Calcutta.   On	 themorning	 of December 18, 1956, Prithiraj, before he went  toFalakata Hat, had made enquiries from the firm of BhairabhanBhowrilal whether any Hundi was available.  As Bhowrilal wasnot  able to supply him the Hundi the cash remained  in	 theshop.  The contents of the safe showed that on December	 18,1956,  before Malchand was murdered there was a sum  of	 Rs.3,913  in  cash	 and  8-1/4  tolas  of	gold.	There	was,therefore,  a  substantial amount in the safe  at  the	shopwhich would have been stolen were it not that the miscreantsfled after murdering Malchand because of a neighbour callingout to him.The conviction of the appellants, as pointed out by the HighCourt, depended entirely on circumstantial1327evidence.  The High Court did not rely upon the confessionalstatement  made	 by the appellant Bishnu Charan	 Saha  to  aMagistrate,  as,  in  its opinion, it was  not	a  voluntarystatement.   Reference	will be made to	 the  circumstantialevidence,  upon which the High Court relied, in due  course.Before we deal with that aspect of the case it is  necessaryto  refer to a submission made on behalf of  the  appellantsconcerning the tender of pardon under s. 337 of the Code  ofCriminal Procedure to Bishnu Charan Saha and, the failure ofthe  prosecution to comply with the provisions of s. 339  ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure.It  was urged that the provisions of s. 339 of the Code	 nothaving	been  complied with the trial ",as vitiated  as	 theappellant  Bishnu Charan Saha could not be  tried  alongwiththe  appellant Bipin Behari Sarkar.  In order to  understandthis  submission  it  is necessary to  state  a	 few  facts.Bishnu Charan Saha was arrested at about 3 p. m. on December19, 1956.  His confession was recorded by the Magistrate Mr.S.  C.	Chaudhury  on December	20,  1956.   A	charge-sheetagainst the appellants and Sanatan Das was submitted by	 thepolice	on  June 20, 1957.  On June 22, 1957, a	 prayer	 wasmade  to  the  Sub-divisional Magistrate on  behalf  of	 theprosecution that Bishnu Charan Saba may be tendered a pardonunder  s.  337	of the Code of Criminal	 Procedure  and	 theMagistrate  recorded  an  order	 to  the  effect  that	thisappellant  was tendered pardon under s. 337 of the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  on condition of his making a  full	 andtrue disclosure of the whole of the circumstances within hisknowledge relating to the offence and to every other  personconcerned whether as principal or abettor in the  commissionthereof.  The Sub-divisional Magistrate bad already reportedon  June 20, 1957, to the District Magistrate that  both  heand the other Magistrate of Mathabhanga should not hold	 thecommitment proceedings as they had had something to do	withthe  investigation.  On August 1, 1957, the  Magistrate	 Mr.Sinha,	to  whom the case had been  ultimately	transferred,recorded  an order to the effect that the three accused	 hadbeen produced before him and that he had seen the Court1328Inspector's petition praying that the accused Bishnu be madean approver in the case under s. 337 of the Code of CriminalProcedure.   This accused had, however, stated that he	madethe   confessional  statement  before  the   Magistrate	  atMathabhanga as he had been assaulted by the police and	thathe did not wish to become an approver.	After the completionof the enquiry before commitment, the appellants and SanatanDas  were committed to the Court of Session to	stand  theirtrial for the murder of Malchand.Section	 339(1) of the Code provides that " where  a  pardonhas  been  tendered under s. 337 or s. 338, and	 the  PublicProsecutor certifies that in his opinion any person who	 hasaccepted  such	tender has, either  by	wilfully  concealinganything essential or by giving false evidence, not compliedwith the condition on which the tender was made, such personmay be tried for the offence in respect of which the  pardonwas  so	 tendered,  or for any other offence  of  which	 lieappears	 to  have been guilty in connection  with  the	samematter	".  The proviso to this	 sub-section  prohibits	 thetrial  of such person jointly with any of the other  accusedand  that  such person shall be entitled to  plead  at	suchtrial  that  he had complied with the condition	 upon  whichsuch  tender  was  made.  The  provisions  of  this  sectionclearly pre-suppose that the pardon which had been  tenderedto  a  person had been accepted by him and  that  thereafterthat person had wilfully concealed anything essential or hadgiven false evidence and therefore bad not complied with thecondition on which the tender was made to him.	Section	 337of  the Code, under which a pardon is tendered,	 shows	thatsuch tender is made on the condition that the person to whomit is tendered makes a full and true disclosure of the wholeof  the circumstances within his knowledge relative  to	 theoffence	 and  to every other person concerned whether  as  aprincipal  or  an abettor to the commission  thereof.	Sub-section	 (2) of this section requires that every person	 whohas accepted a tender shall be examined as a witness in	 thecourt of the Magistrate taking cognizance of the offence andin the subsequent trial, if any.1329 It  is clear, therefore, that a mere tender of pardon	doesnot  attract  the provisions of s. 339.	 There	must  be  anacceptance of it and the person who has accepted the  pardonmust be examined as a witness.	It is' only thereafter	thatthe  provisions of s. 339 come into play and the person	 whoaccepted the pardon may be tried for the offence in  respectof  which the pardon was tendered, if the Public  Prosecutorcertifies  that	 in  his opinion  he  has,  either  wilfullyconcealed anything essential or had given false evidence andhad not complied with the condition on which the tender	 wasmade.	In the present case, there is nothing on the  recordto  show that on July 22, 1957, although Bishnu Charan	Sahahad  been  tendered a pardon, he had  accepted	the  tender.Indeed, the order-sheet of the Sub-divisional Magistrate  ofthat date does not even disclose that Bishnu Charan Saha hadbeen  produced before him.  On the other hand,	when  BishnuCharan	Saha  and his co-accused were  produced	 before	 theMagistrate Mr. Sinha, to whom the case had been transferred,the prosecution made a prayer to the Magistrate that  BishnuCharan Saha may be made an approver in the case under s. 337of  the	 Code of Criminal Procedure.  This would  show	thatupto  that  time  Bishnu Charan Saha had  not  accepted	 thetender	of pardon made to him by the  Sub-divisional  Magis-trate on June 22,1957.	On the prayer of the Prosecutor madeto  Mr. Sinha on August 1, 1957, Bishnu Charan	Saba  flatlydenied that he wished to be an approver and had stated	thatthe confessional statement made by him to Mr. Chaudhury	 wasnot  a	voluntary one.	On the facts of	 the  present  case,therefore,  all that is proved is that at one stage  of	 theproceedings  a	tender	of pardon had been  made  to  BishnuCharan Saba.  There was, however, no proof that that  tenderhad been accepted by him.  Such being the situation it couldnot be said that there was in existence an effective  pardonunder s. 337 and that its provisions applied to the facts ofthe  present case.  Consequently, no question  arises  aboutthe  applicability of s. 339 to the proceedings	 before	 theMagistrate  holding an enquiry before commitment or  to	 thetrial of the appellants, because the1330provisions  of s. 339 can only come into operation if  thereis  in	existence an effective pardon under s.	337  of	 theCode.	In  our opinion, on the facts of the  present  case,there  is  no foundation for the submission which  had	beenmade.Coming	now to the circumstantial evidence in the case	uponwhich the High Court relied for upholding the conviction  ofthe appellants, which may be summed up as follows:(1)  The  evidence clearly established that  the  appellantswere  local men who lived or worked not far from  Malchand'sshop.  They accordingly had the means and the opportunity ofknowing	 the  state  of things obtaining at his	 shop  at  aparticular date.(2)  The  association  of  the appellants  and	Sanatan	 Dasimmediately prior to the murder.(3)  The  evidence of their movements towards the  directionof Malchand's shop.(4)  The  evidence concerning their presence in the shop  ofMalchand shortly before the latter was murdered.(5)  The  evidence  concerning the  appellant  Bipin  BihariSarkar	hurrying away from the direction of Malchand's	shopclosely followed by the appellant Bishnu Charan Saha.(6)  The evidence of injuries on the palms or fingers of theappellants  found  at the time of their	 arrest	 which	tookplace within 24 hours, or shortly thereafter, of the murder.(7)  The  evidence of the presence of human  bloodstains  onthe  shirt  of	Bishnu Charan Saha and	bloodstains  on	 thewrapper	 of Bipin Behari Sarkar with burnt holes  at  placeswhere the stains were found.(8)  The  cash-memoes with the signatures of  the  appellantBishnu Charan Saha.(9)  In the opinion of the doctor the nature of the injurieson  Malchand  showed  that probably he	was  overpowered  bysomeone	 first	and then another person pressed	 the  weaponagainst his neck.The  matter for consideration is whether the  circumstantialevidence, as stated above, is sufficient to prove1331that  the  appellants  had participated	 in  the  murder  ofMalchand.Two findings of the High Court may be stated at, this  stagebefore	the  circumstantial evidence is	 referred  to.	 Oneconcerned  the cash-memoes signed by Bishnu Charan Saha	 andthe other concerned the colour of the wrapper worn by  BipinBehari Sarkar when he was seen by Kali Mohan Sarkar, P. W. 7going away from a place near the shop of Malchand after	 themurder.	 The cash-memoes bore the date 11-12-56 and not	 18-12-56.	 The High Court gave good reasons for  holding	thatthe  date 11-12-56 was wrongly entered in these	 cash-memoesafter examining the account books of Malchand's shop and theother circumstances in the case as well as the admission  ofBishnu	Charan Saha that on December 18, 1956, between	1-30and 2 p. m. be had caused three cash memoes to be issued  inthe  shop  of  Malchand.   We  find  ourselves	in  completeagreement  with	 the  findings of the  High  Court  in	thisrespect.   The	wrapper worn by Bipin Behari Sarkar  at	 thetime  he was seen by Kali Mohan Sarkar was described by	 thewitness	 as blue in colour whereas, in fact,  the  recoveredwrapper	 from  the  house of this  appellant  was  green  incolour.	 The High Court thought and, in our opinion, rightlythat what was in fact green in colour might have appeared tobe  blue to a witness when seen at night by him.  A  mistakein describing the colour accurately in the circumstances  ofthe present case did not materially affect the evidence thatBipin Behari Sarkar was wearing a wrapper at the time he wasseen  at  a  spot near Malchand's  shop	 after	the  murder.Further	 reference  to	the wrapper will  be  made  when  weconsider the case of this appellant.Mohan Lal Sarma, P. W. 4 had stated that at about 8 p.m.  onDecember  18, 1956, he had seen the appellants	and  SanatanDas  sitting in the latter's shop.  Bishnu Charan  Saha	 wasthe  first to leave the shop. 10 or 15 minutes later,  BipinBehari	 Sarkar	 and  Sanatan  Das  left  after	  padlockingSanatan's shop.	 The evidence of this witness had been fullyaccepted 1691691332by  the High Court.  Sudhir Ranjan De, P. W. 8 deposed	thatin  the evening of December 18, 1956, at about 7-30 p.m.  hehad  seen  Bishnu Charan Saha passing in front	of  Gostha'sshop  which was nearly opposite Malchand's shop.  He had  onhis body a Sujni Chaddar. 4 or 5 minutes later, Bipin BehariSarkar	and  Sanatan  Das  were	 seen  going  in  the	samedirection.   The  High Court believed the evidence  of	thiswitness.  It came to the conclusion that on the evidence  ofMohan Lal Sarma and Sudhir Ranjan De it was established thatat  about 8 p.m. the appellants and Sanatan Das were  movingtowards	  Malchand's   shop.   There  was  no	doubt	somediscrepancy about the timing but, as was pointed out by	 theHigh Court, the witnesses were giving the time approximatelyand did not purport to give the exact time.  Kumud Lal Saha,P. W. 2 deposed that at about 8-30 p.m. on December 18,1956,he  saw the appellants and Sanatan sitting with Malchand  inthe latter's shop.  Malchand was at that time placing  clothfor  their  inspection.	  The High  Court  referred  to	 thevarious	 criticisms levelled against the testimony  of	thiswitness	 and after dealing with them came to the  conclusionthat  the witness was a truthful witness and that  his	evi-dence  established that the appellants were at the  shop  ofMalchand at about 8-30 p.m. and that Malchand was last	seenalive with them.  The evidence of Khum Chand Bothers, P.W. 3proved	that at about 8-30 p.m. on the night  of  Malchand'smurder	he had called out "Malchand " " Malchand ", but	 hadreceived  no reply.  Kali Mohan Sarkar, P. W. 7 proved	thatat  about 8 p.m. on the night in question when he was  goinghome he met the appellant Bipin Behari Sarkar who was  goingaway  hurriedly	 from the direction of the Bazar.   On	someenquiry	 made by the witness this appellant stated  that  hehad  been  pressed  by a call of  nature.   Thereafter,	 theappellant  Bishnu Charan Saha was seen coming  behind  BipinBehari Sarkar.	Bipin Behari Sarkar had on his person a bluecoloured  wrapper.   The  spot	at  which  he  had  met	 theappellant Bipin Behari Sarkar was at a distance of about 100cubits to the south of the passage meant for sweepers1333of  Malchand's	house.	 He had	 heard	Bishnu	Charan	Sahacalling	 out  "	 Hei, Hei " to Bipin  Behari  Sarkar-.	 Theevidence of these witnesses, which had been accepted by	 theHigh Court, established that the appellants were seen  goingin the direction of Malchand's shop.  Thereafter, they	wereseen  with Malchand at his shop.  Subsequent to that,  BipinBehari	Sarkar was seen going away hurriedly at a place	 notfar from Malchand's shop followed by Bishnu Charan Saha	 whowas  calling  out to him " Hei, Hei ". The  last  time	thatMalchand   was	seen  alive  was  in  the  company  of	 theappellants.   The existence of the cash-memoes,	 which	werestained	 with  human blood, with the  signatures  of  BishnuCharan Saha clearly established that at least Bishnu CliaranSaha  must  have  been present at the  time  of	 the  murderbecause the cash memoes were being made out for him and theywere stained with human blood which shows that Malchand	 wasmurdered while he was handling the cash-memoes.	 It had beenfurther	 proved that Bishnu Charan Saha had on	him  certaininjuries  of which one was an incised injury.  The  evidenceof the doctor was that this injury could have been caused bythe  same instrument with which the neck injury of  Malchandhad  been caused.  It had been further established that	 theshirt  of Bishinu Charan Saha was stained with human  blood.The  explanation  offered  by Bishnu  Charan  Saba  for	 theinjuries  on his person was not accepted by the	 High  Courtand, in our opinion, rightly.  Bishnu Charan Saha had statedto the doctor at the time of his examination that injury No.1  was caused as the result of contact with a grass  cuttingdao and injuries Nos. 2 and 3 by having drawn his hand	overa  rough piece of wood, but to the doctor  this	 explanationwas  unacceptable inasmuch as this appellant was not a	lefthanded person-a fact which appeared clear from his formationand development.  When examined under s. 342 of the Code  ofCriminal Procedure Bishnu Charan Saha told the Court that  2days  prior  to his examination by the doctor lie  had	beencutting	 straw	for his cattle with his left hand  when	 hisdaughter aged about13344  came up from behind and pushed him which resulted in	 theinjury to his finger by its contact with the dao and that hehad  also  received injuries on the back of  his  finger  bystriking  it against a piece of wood.  So far as  the  shirtstained	 with human blood, which was found on his person  atthe  time of his arrest, was concerned, Bishnu	Charan	Sahaseriously disputed the identity of the shirt.  The  identityof  the shirt, however, had been clearly  established.	 Hisexplanation  to	 the Court was that some of the	 stains	 hadbeen  caused  by betel spit and that one or two	 might	havebeen  caused by some drops of blood falling on the shirt  atthe  time he had sustained his injuries.   This	 explanationwas  also  not	accepted by the High Court  and,  we  think,rightly.  The evidence therefore established that so far  asBishnu Charan Saha was concerned he was seen in the  companyof Bipin Behari Sarkar and Sanatan Das near about 8 p. m. Hewas seen shortly thereafter, as were the other two, going ina direction which was towards the shop of Malchand.  He	 wasseen  along  with  the	other two persons  at  the  shop  ofMalchand at about 8-30 p.m. Thereafter, he was seen not	 farfrom  the  shop of Malchand going in the same  direction  asBipin Behari Sarkar and calling out to him.  The cash-memoesat Malchand's shop had been signed by him.  He had  injurieson his person consistent with their having been caused whilethe  murder of the deceased took place.	 The shirt  that  hewas wearing at the time of his arrest was stained with humanblood  for which he gave no reasonable explanation.  In	 ouropinion, the sum total of the evidence against Bishnu CharanSaha  established  beyond any reasonable doubt that  he	 hadparticipated in the murder of Malchand.Coming	now to the case of Bipin Behari Sarkar the  evidenceagainst him is the same as against Bishnu Charan Saha  aboutthe movements towards the shop of Malchand, presence at	 theshop  of Malchand and being seen going away at a place	nearthe  shop of Malchand and the existence of injuries  on	 hisperson.	  In addition there was the evidence that a  wrapperwas seized the next morning after his arrest with marks of1335burning round which there were traces of blood.	 Unlike	 thecase  of Bishnu Charan Saba no signatures of his were  foundon  the	 cash-memoes.	It is  a  matter  for  considerationwhether in the case of this appellant' any reasonable  doubtcould  arise  as  to  his guilt.  It  was  urged  that	meremovements towards the shop of Malchand, his presence at	 theshop  of Malchand and his being seen going away at  a  placenear   the  shop  of  Malchand	would  not   be	  sufficientcircumstantial	evidence  to  convict him.  So	far  as	 theinjuries  were concerned the doctor had admitted  that	theycould have been caused by a split bamboo.  The doctor had atno time stated that they could have been caused by the	sameweapon	which caused injuries to the neck of Malchand.	 Theexistence  of  the injuries, therefore,	 was  no  additionalincriminating  circumstance from which any conclusion  couldbe drawn against this appellant.   So far as the wrapper wasconcerned, there was	 no  evidence that the	burnt  marksfound on it    were  not  there before	December  18,  1956.Although blood-stains had been found on this wrapper it	 hadnot been established that they were human blood-stains.	 Thewrapper	 was  also, therefore, n0  additional  incriminatingcircumstance against this appellant.  It is, however, to  beremembered  that this appellant was with Bishnu Charan	Sahaand that Malchand was last seen alive in the company of	 theappellants.  The murder of Malchand had already taken  placewhen this appellant followed by Bishnu Charan Saha was	seengoing away hurriedly at a spot near the shop of Malchand andBishnu Charan Saha was calling out " Hei, Hei " to him.	  Itis  remarkable that this appellant was seen not only at	 theshop  of  Malchand  but near that shop	after  he  bad	beenmurdered  and  that he was found to have  injuries  oil	 hisperson	when he was arrested at 10-30 p.m. on  December	 19,1956.  It would be a remarkable coincidence that both he andBishnu Charan Saha should have injuries on their persons  soshortly	 after	the  murder.   Bipin  Behari  Sarkar  deniedownership of the wrapper.  His explanation was not that	 theburnt marks on the wrapper were there before December 18.1336This  wrapper  had  blood-stains.  They were  too  small  inquantity  to enable a Serologist to determine their  origin,but  it	 is remarkable that wherever  the  bloodstains	werefound  on the wrapper an attempt had been made to  burn	 outthose marks.  Unfortunately, for the appellant, his  attemptto burn out the bloodstains on the wrapper was not  entirelysuccessful.   This  was	 in our	 opinion,  an  incriminatingcircumstance  against  this appellant.	 The  circumstantialevidence  taken as a whole leaves no room for  a  reasonabledoubt in our minds -about the guilt of this appellant.In our opinion, the High Court rightly found the  appellantsguilty	under s. 302/34 of the Indian Penal Code.  It  couldnot  be said that the sentence of death for a murder of	 thekind proved in this case was unduly severe.  The appeals areaccordingly dismissed.Appeals dismissed.