PETITIONER:CLERKS OF CALCUTTA TRAMWAYS	Vs.RESPONDENT:CALCUTTA TRAMWAYS CO.  LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:11/10/1956BENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDABENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR   78		  1956 SCR  772ACT:Industrial  dispute-Dearness  allowance-Clerks-Middle  classemployees-Whether  uniform rates to be adopted-Decisions  ofTribunals-Power of the Supreme Court to interfere.HEADNOTE:It  is	well  settled that the decisions of  a	Tribunal  onquestions of fact are final and that the Supreme Court wouldinterfere  only	 in  cases where (1) the  Tribunal  acts  inexcess	of  the	 jurisdiction conferred upon  it  under	 thestatute	 or  regulation creating it or where  it  ostensiblyfails  to  exercise a patent jurisdiction; (2) there  is  anerror apparent on the face of the decision; (3) the Tribunalhas   erroneously   applied  well-accepted   principles	  ofjurisprudence.The  Bengal  Chamber  of Commerce of  which  the  respondentCompany	 was  a member, had made an investigation  into	 thecost  of  living index for the middle  class  families	and,fixed the dearness allowance payable to the employees of themercantile   firms  in	Calcutta.   Before  the	  IndustrialTribunal as well as the Labour Appellate Tribunal the  claimwas  put forward on behalf of the appellants (the clerks  ofthe respondent Company) that the dearness allowance for themshould	be  at the same rates as those decided upon  by	 theBengal Chamber of Commerce in respect of the middle  classesto which the appellants belonged and they contended that theprocedure adopted by the Labour, Appellate Tribunal  leavingout  20 points of the living cost index	 un-neutralised	 wasnot justifiable.Held,  that  in matters of the grant of	 dearness  allowancethere cannot be a hard and fast rule applicable to all kindsof  employees and except in the very lowest class of  manuallabourers it is not proper to neutralise the entire rise  inthe  cost  of  living  by  dearness  allowance.	  There	 aredifferent grades among the middle classes and the appellantscannot claim to have the same rates of dearness allowance asthose  fixed for the clerks of the mercantile firms  by	 theBengal Chamber of Commerce.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 105 of 1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember 6, 1952, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, Calcuttain Appeal No. Cal-3 of 1952773arising	 out of the award dated September 25, 1951,  of	 theCourt  of District Judge, Industrial Tribunal,	Calcutta  inCase No. VIII-23 of 1951.S.   C.	 Isaacs,  A.  K. Datt and  Sukumar  Ghose,  for	 theappellants.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, D. B. Das	 andS. N. Mukherji, for the respondent.B.   Sen  and  P.  k. Bose, for Intervener  (State  of	WestBengal).1956.  October 11.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGOVINDA MENON J.-This appeal is by special leave against thedecision   of  the  Labour  Appellate  Tribunal	 of   India,Calcutta, which modified the award, passed by the IndustrialTribunal,  Calcutta, in the matter of a dispute referred  toit  by the Government of West Bengal, for adjudication	withregard	to  the rates of dearness allowance for	 clerks	 andDepot  cashiers,  employed by the  Calcutta  Tramway's	Coy.Ltd., numbering about 600, out of a total of 10,000 workmen.Disputes  having arisen between the workmen of the  CalcuttaTramways  Coy,	Ltd.  (which may hereafter  be	called	'TheCompany')  on the one hand, and the employers on the  other,relating  to the dearness allowance payable to the  workmen,there  were two previous awards, one dated May 16, 1947,  bySri S. N. Guha Roy, and the other dated October 27, 1948, bySri  P. K. Sircar.  Both of these awards related to all	 theemployees  of  the Company and not to the clerks  and  Depotcashiers  alone.  Subsequently a reference was made  by	 theWest  Bengal  Government  on June  13,	1951,  concerning  adispute relating to the dearness allowance of the workmen ofthe Company, excluding clerks and Depot cashiers.  There wasan  award and an appeal, and in that appeal the Appel.	lateTribunal  increased the dearness allowance by Rs. 7/8/-	 forworkmen	 in  the pay ranges below Rs. 50 and up to  the	 payrange of Rs. 250 and by a flat rate774of Rs. 5 in the higher pay ranges taking the cost of  livingindex of the workmen class at 370 points.In  the present award, which relates to the clerks  and	 theDepot  cashiers	 alone,	 the Industrial	 Tribunal  gave	 Rs.47/8/-	as dearness allowance for a pay range of Rs.  51  toRs. 100 and provided for a progressive increase of Rs. 5 foreach	slab	of    Rs.   50	  in	the    pay    range.The Appellate Tribunalincreasedthe amounts so awarded by Rs.2/8/- more than what was granted to the other workmen of theCompany.   The	cost of living index for  the  middle  classfamilies  had  been fixed by an investigating  body  of	 theBengal	Chamber of Commerce during the relevant year at	 382points,	 whereas the index in the case of working class	 wasfixed  at 370 points.  The increased amount awarded for	 thevarious	 pay ranges and shown in the decision of the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  which need not be repeated	 again,	 wasfounded	 on these cost of living indices though	 the  amountwas  not  the same as recommended by the Bengal	 Chamber  ofCommerce.Before	the  -Labour  Appellate Tribunal,  as  well  as	 theIndustrial Tribunal, the claim put forward on behalf of	 theclerks	and Depot cashiers was that the	 dearness  allowanceshould	be on the same rates as decided upon by	 the  BengalChamber of Commerce of which the company is a member and  nodifference should have been made between the dearness allow-ance recommended by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and	thatto be awarded by the Industrial Tribunal.  In fact, what wasurged  was that the recommendation of the Bengal Chamber  ofCommerce ought to have been accepted in its entirety for thereason not only that the Company is a first class member  ofthe  Chamber but also that the class of persons, namely	 themiddle	classes	 for whom the recommendation  was  intended,includes  clerks and Depot cashiers of the Company as  well,and  the  same	having	been  accepted	,by  the  MercantileTribunal which dealt with the dearness allowance payable  tothe  employees	of  the mercantile firms  in  Calcutta,	 theIndustrial  Tribunal,  as  well as  the,   Labour  AppellateTribunal, should have775followed  the  same.  The learned Judges  of  the  AppellateTribunal  held that those recommendations were made  to	 themercantile  firms where the workmen consist  practically  ofthe  clerical and subordinate staff as -opposed to  TramwaysCompany	 where	the large percentage of	 workmen  belong  toother categories, the clerks and Depot cashiers being only asmall  minority, though they found that the cost  of  livingindex  found  by the Bengal Chamber of	Commerce  should  beaccepted  as  the  criterion  for  awarding  the   increaseddearness  allowance  in	 the case of the  employees  of	 theCompany as well.On  behalf  of the appellants it is urged before us  that  adifferent mode of treatment than the one recommended by	 theBengal Chamber of Commerce should not have been resorted  toin  the	 case of the appellants, for the reason	 that  thoserecommendations	 are intrinsically  reasonable,	 consideringthe  uniformity	 of life and modes of habit  of	 the  middleclasses to which the clerks and Depot cashiers belong.	The,respondent  Company being a member of the Bengal Chamber  ofCommerce should, instead of ignoring the recommendation haveacted  upon it as a mandate, so that its action as a  membershould	not  be inconsistent with that	followed  by  othersespecially  since there have been no valid  reasons  allegedfor the non-acceptance of the recommendation.  It-is furtherurged  that there is no acceptable defence put forward	thatthe   abovementioned  recommendation  will  not	  apply	  toinstitutions  having  a	 mixed	staff  as  the	Company	  inquestion.  On the other hand, what is stated in the  writtenstatement  of the Company is that according to the  previousaward it had been paying a uniform sliding scale of dearnessallowance  for	all  categories of workmen  as	detailed  inParagraph  6(b).  It is, therefore, contended that what	 theIndustrial  as	well as the Appellate Tribunal	should	havedone  was  to have evolved a principle to fix  the  dearnessallowance in relation to the' basic salaries and the cost ofliving	index,	as  that  alone	 would	satisfy	 the  recom-mendations of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce.776,We have, therefore, to see whether in following the  coursenow  adopted  by the Tribunals below they have	ignored	 anylegal principle or acted in violation of any statute.  Therecan  be no doubt whatever that if the scheme  adumbrated  bythe  Bengal  Chamber of Commerce is adopted in the  case  ofclerks	and  Depot cashiers, they would get amounts  far  inexcess and out of all proportion to what were awarded to theother  workmen whose appeal had already been disposed of  bythe  Appellate Tribunal though it has to be recognized	thatthe  cost of living index in the case of the appellants	 hasto be considered to be more than the index of workmen  whoseavocations are the result of physical labour rather than  ofmental	faculties.  In short, the clerks and Depot  cashiersshould be considered as the white collared fraternity.In  these  circumstances, we have to find  out	whether	 theprocedure followed by the Labour Appellate Tribunal,  namelyleaving out 20 points un-neutralised and allowing Rs. 5	 per20  points  rise in the living cost index  but	taking	intoconsideration a higher living cost index of 382 in the	caseof the appellants as compared with the average index of	 theworkmen of 370, is a justifiable method to be adopted.It  is	difficult to hold that the middle  classes  in	thiscountry	 can be said to form a separate stratum	 of  societyeven  in a city like Calcutta having the same mode of  life,the  same  necessities, uniform requirements  and  comforts.There are different grades even among the middle classes andit  is unwise to predicate the same degrees of comforts	 andnecessities for everyone who is said to belong to the middleclasses.  Such being the case, to say that the clerks in themercantile firms can be considered equal in all respects  tothe  600  clerks and Depot cashiers of the  Company,  is  anargument  which	 cannot be accepted as	sound.	 The  LabourAppellate   Tribunal   has  not	  completely   ignored	 therecommendations of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce, for it isseen that in raising the amount awarded by the Industrial777Tribunal the Appellate Tribunal has based its conclusion  onthe higher cost of living index in the case of middle  classemployees.Such being the case, the point for consideration is  whetherany  question of principle is involved, so that	 this  courtmight  interfere  with	the conclusions arrived	 at  by	 theLabour	Appellate  Tribunal.   Wide  and  undefinable	withexactitude  as the powers of the Court are  (see  DhakeswariCotton	Mills  Ltd.  v. Commissioner  of  Income  Tax,	WestBengal(1)),  it	 is  now well  settled	that  generally	 thenecessary  pre-requisites for this court's  interference  toset   right   decisions	 arrived  at  by   Tribunals   whoseconclusions on questions of fact are final can be classifiedunder  the  following  categories, namely,  (1)	 where'	 theTribunal  acts in excess of the jurisdiction conferred	uponit  under the statute or regulation creating it or where  itostensibly  fails  to exercise a patent	 jurisdiction;	(ii)where there is an apparent error on the face of the decisionand  (iii) where the Tribunal has erroneously applied  well-accepted  principles  of  jurisprudence.  It  is  only	whenerrors	of  this nature exist, that interference  is  calledfor.  In the present case the appellants have not been	ableto  show that there is any deviation from those	 principles.If  the	 Tribunal  below had failed  to-resort	to  a  basicprinciple, then something might have been said but what	 hasbeen  done is, that in computing the dearness  allowance  ithas  considered	 various methods and adopted  one  of  them.That  being the case, it is' difficult to say that there  isany question of principle at all.The  report  of the Central Pay Commission at  page  46,  inParagraph 71, made the following recommendation:"Without adopting such a complicated procedure, we think  itsufficient  to	provide by slabs for  persons  on  differentlevels of pay, as shown in the accompanying table which alsoprovides for diminishing rates of dearness allowance as	 thecost  of living index falls, taking the stages by 20  pointsat a time".(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 941, 949.778It  refrained  from recommending the neutralisation  of	 theentire higher cost of living by means of dearness allowance.The  report of the Committee on Fair Wages appointed by	 theGovernment  of	India  in  Chapter  IV,	 dealing  with	WageAdjustments considered in paragraph 43 the various modes andmethods	 of granting relief to meet the burden of  increasedcost  Of living and came to the conclusion that there is  nopractice  of uniformity in the extent of compensation  givento  employees  to  meet the increased cost  of	living.	  Itobserved as follows:-"The  Pay  Commission has accepted, the principle  that	 thelowest paid employee should be reimbursed to the full extentof  the	 rise  in  the	cost  of  living  and  that,  highercategories  of	employees should receive a  diminishing	 butgraduated  scale of dearness allowance.	 The Pay  Commissionhas rejected the principal of a flat rate for all categoriesof employees, irrespective of their basic salaries".Finally	 it  came  to the conclusion "that  for	 the  lowestcategories  of	employees  the target  should  obviously  becompensation to the extent of 100 per cent. of the  increasein  the cost of living.	 For categories above the lowest  weagree  that the same consideration will not apply.   A	flatrate equal to the rate allowed to the leastskilled worker isnot likely to satisfy higher categories".In  the analysis regarding the Industrial Awards, issued  bythe Government of India, Ministry of Labour, the question ofdearness  allowance is considered somewhat elaborately.	  Atpage  33  there	 is a discussion regarding  the	 linking  ofdearness  allowance to the cost of index numbers and  as  towhether	 a flat rate of dearness allowance  irrespective  ofthe  income  group should be allowed or not.   They  furtherconsidered the linking of dearness allowance to the cost  ofliving	index numbers on the scale of income groups, but  atrates  diminishing with the income received.  A	 perusal  ofthe fairly elaborate discussion in Chapter779III  shows  that  there	 cannot be  a  hard  and  fast	ruleapplicable to all kinds of employees.  Very much will dependupon  the conditions of labour, the nature of  the  localityand the mode of living.In  Buckingham and Carnatic Company Ltd., Madras v.  Workersof  the Company(1) the Tribunal considered the	question  ofneutralisation	of  the rise of the cost of  living  by	 thegrant of dearness allowance and was of the opinion that centper cent neutralisation cannot be allowed, as it would	leadto a vicious circle and add fillip to the inflatory  spiral.It further held that there was no reason why the  Industrialworker	should not make sacrifices line all other  citizens.We  can now take it as settled that in matters of the  grantof  dearness  allowance except tothe very  lowest  class  ofmanual	labourers whose income is just' sufficient  to	keepbody  and  soul	 together, it is  impolitic  and  unwise  toneutralise the entire rise in the cost of living by dearnessallowance.  More so in the case of the middle classes.The  criterion	to be adopted in the  fixation	of  dearnessallowance is also considered in Mahomad Rai Akbarali Khan v.The  Associated	 Cement Companies Limited(2)  where  similarprinciples are discussed.On  behalf  of the appellants our attention was	 invited  tocertain	  observations	 contained   in	  The	 Millowners'Association, Bombay v. The Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor  Sangh(3),but  we	 do  not  think	 that  any  different  principle  isenunciated  there at all.  Mr. Isaacs, the  learned  counselfor  the  appellants, laid great stress on the	decision  inWorkmen	 of the Firestone Tyre and Rubber Company  of  IndiaLtd.,  Bombay v. Firestone Tyre and Rubber Company of  IndiaLtd., Bomba(4) where the Tribunal expressed the opinion thatdearness  allowance  is intended to neutralise rise  in	 thecost of living and as there is a well recognised  differencebetween	 the clerical staff and other workmen in their	costof living, the latter are not entitled.(1) [1952] L.A.C. 490, 519, 520.  (2) [1953] L A.C. 677.(3) [1955] L.A.C. 371.		 (4) [1953] L.A.C. 509.101780to  claim  the allowance on-the same basis.  From  this	 thelearned	 counsel  contends that the recommendations  of	 theBengal	Chamber of Commerce should be accepted in toto.	  Inour  opinion, the decision does not help the point  of	viewput  forward  on behalf of' the appellants.   In  fact,	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal has made a distinction between thephysical  labourers  and the clerks and	 Depot	cashiers  inwhose  work  it is not alone the physical exertion  that  isessential but some kind of mental and brain work as well andaccordingly  the  higher  cost of living  index	 taken	intoaccount.In  such  circumstances,  it seems to  us  that	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal has, after considering the various pointsof  view,  come to the correct conclusion  in  awarding	 thedearness allowance it did.  There is no question of -law  orprinciple  involved and the appeal has to be dismissed	withcosts of the Calcutta Tramways Coy.  Ltd.The  State of West Bengal, which has intervened	 during	 theappeal, will bear its own costs.781