PETITIONER:THE OKARA ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO.  LTD., AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:13/11/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)SUBBARAO, K.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  284		  1960 SCR  (2) 239 CITATOR INFO : R	    1969 SC 239	 (14) RF	    1989 SC1741	 (11)ACT:Constitution--Electricity  undertaking-Grant  of   temporarysanction   for	 supplying  energy-Condition   imposed	 forcompulsory   acquisition  of  undertaking  on	Payment	  ofcompensation-Whether	ultra	vires-Statute	 authorisingimposition  of such condition-Whether infringes	 fundamentalrights-Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (IX of 1910), s.  28(1)-Constitution of India, Arts. 19(1)(f) and Art. 31.HEADNOTE:Section 28(1) of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 authorisedthe State Government to grant sanction to a non-licensee  toengage	in  the	 business  of supplying	 energy	 on  "	suchconditions   in	 this  behalf  "  as  it  may  fix.   By   anotification  dated May 26, 1948, issued under S. 28(1)	 thefirst  respondent granted sanction to the first	 petitioner,to  engage in the business of supplying energy	to  Muktsar.Clause	11 of the notification provided that the  ProvincialGovernment   shall   have  the	option	of   acquiring	 theundertaking at anytime after October 21, 1950, after  givingone year's notice and that it shall pay the price of  lands,buildings, works, material and plant that may be acquired atthe  fair  market  value.  On January  3,  1958,  the  firstrespondent issued a notice exercising the option given undercl.  11	 and  intimated to the first  petitioner  that	uponexpiry of one year its undertaking shall vest and become theabsolute  property of the first respondent.  On	 January  4,1959,	the   first  respondent	 took  possession   of	 theundertaking  in	 pursuance of the notice.   The	 petitionerscontended that cl. 11 of the notification was ultra vires S.28 and that if cl. 11 was justified by S. 28 then S. 28	 wasvoid as it offended Arts. 19 and 31 of the Constitution. Held,	that cl. 11 of the notification was intra  vires  S.28.   A	 statutory provision which dealt with the  grant  ofsanction to240a person to engage in the business of supplying energy must,having	regard	to  the special features  of  the  business,necessarily  deal with the position which would arise on thetermination  of the sanction ; so it could be  assumed	thatsuch  statutory	 provision  would  make	 adequate  provisionempowering   the  State	 Government  to	 provide   for	 thecompulsory  acquisition	 of the assets of  the	supplier  onpayment	 of  proper compensation.  Though S. 28(1)  did	 notspecifically  provide for compulsory acquisition on  paymentof  compensation, the expression " such conditions  in	thisbehalf " in S. 28(1) in the context would include conditionsdealing with the position which would inevitably arise	whenthe business came to an end.  The sanction under S. 28 beingnecessarily temporary it was in the interest of	 the:granteehimself	 that  some  provision	was  made  for	payment	  ofcompensation to him.  A condition for 'acquisition like	 cl.11 was, therefore, within the scope of S. 28(1).  New  Orleans	Gas Light Co. v. Louisiana  Light  and	HeatProducing  and	Manufacturing Co. 115 U.S. 650; 29  L.	 Ed.516, referred to.    Held,  further, that S. 28 was valid and did not  offendeither Art. 19 or Art. 31.  The Act could not be  challengedon the ground of violating Art. 31(2) as it was an  existinglaw  which  was	 saved	by  clause  (5)	 of  the  Art.	 31.Similarly,  it was saved by S. 299(4) of the  Government  ofIndia  Act,  1935,  from  an attack  under  s.	299(2).	 Therestrictions  imposed  by S. 28 of the Act  were  reasonablerestrictions imposed in the interests of the general  publicwithin	the  meaning of Art. 19(5).  Such  limitations	weregenerally imposed on the business of supplying energy.JUDGMENT:  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 19 of 1959.  Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution  of  India,for enforcement of fundamental rights.  Veda	 Vyasa,	 S.  K.	 Kapur	and  Ganpat  Rai,  for	 thepetitioners.   S.	  M.  Sikri,  Advocate-General	for  the  State	  ofPunjab,   N.	  S. Bindra and D. Gupta, for the respondents.  1959.	 November  13.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered by  GAJENDRAGADKAR  J.-The  Okara Electric  Supply  Co.  Ltd.,which  is a Joint Stock Company and Shrimati V.	 V.  Oberoi,one  of	 the  principal shareholders  of  the  said  company(hereinafter  called petitioners 1 and 2 respectively)	havefiled  the present petition against the State of Punjab	 andthe Punjab241State  Electricity Board (hereinafter called  respondents  1and 2 respectively) in which they have claimed a writ, orderor direction in respect of a notice issued The by respondent1 on January 3, 1958.  The petition was presented on January3,  1959  and it claimed an order or  writ  restraining	 therespondents  from  giving  effect to the  said	notice.	  Itappears	 that on January 4. 1959, in pursuance of  the	saidimpugned  notice  the  respondents took	 possession  of	 thepetitioners'  property	in  question, and so,  by  an  orderpassed	by  the learned Chamber Judge the  petitioners	wereallowed	 to make an additional claim for a writ or order  ordirection   in	 the  nature  of  mandamus   directing	 therespondents  to	 hand  over  to	 the  petitioners  the	saidproperty  in question.	This petition is made on the  groundthat the impugned notice and action taken by the respondentsin  pursuance  of it are illegal and unauthorised  and	theyaffect	the petitioners' fundamental rights under  Arts.  19and 31 of the Constitution. The  first petitioner was granted sanction under s.  28  ofthe  Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (9 of	 1910)	(hereinaftercalled the Act) authorising it to engage in the business  ofsupplying  energy at Muktsar by Government Notification	 No.1766-1 & C-48/28784 published on May 26, 1948.	By virtue ofthe  said sanction the first petitioner has ever since	beenengaged in the business of supplying electric energy at	 thesaid  place and for the purpose of its business it  has	 settip  an electricity undertaking at considerable	 cost.	 On,January	 3, 1958, the Secretary to respondent 1, P.  W.	 D.,Irrigation  and	 Electricity  Branches,	 Chandigarh,  issuednotice	against the first petitioner purporting to  exercisethe  option  given  to respondent 1 by cl. 11  of  the	saidnotification.  By this notice the first petitioner was	toldthat  respondent 1 had exercised its option under  the	saidclause,	 and -that on -the expiry of the period of one	yearafter the receipt of the notice by the first petitioner	 itsundertaking  shall vest in and become the absolute  propertyof respondent 1. The first petitioner has been having bulk supply from P. W.D. Electricity branch of respondent 1, and,31242according  to the petition, respondent 1 could not and	willnot  take  over	 the plant and yet  has	 ordered  the  firstpetitioner that it cannot sell the plant without  permissionof respondent 1. The imposition of this condition is  whollyillegal and it amounts to an unreasonable restriction on thepetitioners'  right  to carry on business and  to  hold	 anddispose of its property. The  petition alleges that cl. 1 1 of the  notification  onwhich the impugned notice is founded is ultra vires s. 28 ofthe  Act,  and that alternatively, if the inclusion  of	 thesaid clause in the notification is justified by s. 28 of theAct,  s. 28 itself is ultra vires since it  offends  againstArts.  19  and	31  of the Constitution.   It  is  on  theseallegations  that originally the petition claimed  an  orderagainst the enforcement of the notice and subsequently addedthe prayer for a writ of mandamus directing respondent 1  torestore to the petitioners possession of the property  whichhas been taken over by' respondent 1 after the filing of thepresent petition. The claim thus made is denied by both the respondents.	  Itis urged that the petitioners cannot challenge the  validityof cl. 11 which was accepted by them before the Constitutioncame  into force.  It is further urged that the said  clauseis justified by the provisions of s. 28 of the Act and	thatboth  the said clause and s. 28 are intra vires	 and  valid.The  respondents further alleged that after  possession	 wastaken of the property of the first petitioner in exercise ofthe  option  under  cl. 11 the	first  petitioner  had	beenrepeatedly called upon by the respondents to assist them  inmaking	a  proper  valuation  of the  assets  of  the  firstpetitioner taken over by the respondents.  In fact an amountof Rs. 60,000 has been paid to the first petitioner in	partpayment	 by way of compensation and it has been accepted  byit  though  under protest; but the work	 of  completing	 thevaluation of the total assets has been delayed and  hamperedby the non-cooperative attitude of the first petitioner. Thus  the first question which falls to be decided on	thispetition is whether cl.	 11 of the notification is243justified  by s. 28 of the Act.	 The notification  consistsof  14	clauses and it sets out exhaustively the  terms	 andconditions  on which sanction had been granted to the  firstpetitioner  under s. 28 of the Act.  For the purpose of	 thepresent	 petition  it would be enough to refer to  11  only.This  clause provides that the provincial  Government  shallhave  the  option  to acquire the undertaking  at  any	timeOctober	 21  1950, provided firstly That not less  than	 oneYear-,'	 notice in writing of the election to acquire  shallbe  served upon the supplier by the  Provincial	 Government;provided secondly that the generating station shall not formpart  of the undertaking for the purpose of  acquisition  ifthe undertaking is acquired after grid supply from the	EastPunjab	Public	Works Department,  Electricity	Branch,	 hasreached Muktsar; provided thirdly that the price to be	paidto the supplier for such lands, buildings, works,  materialsand  plant as may be acquired by the  Provincial  Governmentunder this clause will be the fair market value at the	timeof  purchase (without any addition in respect of  compulsorypurchase  or of goodwill or of any profits which may  be  ormight have been made from the undertaking) such value to  bein  case of difference or dispute determined by	 arbitrationin  the	 manner	 prescribed in s. 52 of	 the  Act;  providedfourthly that the Provincial Government shall pay the  priceof  the property acquired under this clause within a  periodof six months after the price has been determined." Mr. VedaVyas, for the petitioners, contends that the condition whichgives respondent 1 the option to acquire the property of thepetitioners is ultra vires. We  are  concerned  with s. 28 as it  stood  prior  to	 itsamendment by Act 32 of 1959.  Section 28(1) reads thus :"  No  person, other than a licensee, shall  engage  in	 thebusiness  of  supplying	 energy	 except	 with  the  previoussanction of the State Government and in accordance with suchconditions  as the State Government may fix in this  behalf,and any agreement to the contrary shall be void."244The Act which was passed in 1910, to amend the law  relatingto  the supply and use of electrical energy was intended  toprovide for and regulate the supply of	energy	by  grantinglicences  and so the provisions in respect of  licences	 aredealt with by ss. 3 to 27 in	   Part	 11.   Part  III  inwhich  s.  28 occurs deals with the supply  of	energy	non-licensees.   It	 appears that the  Legislature	intended  toadopt  the  course of sanctioning the supply  of  energy  bylion-licensees as a temporary measure and in areas  whereverit  was expedient to do so.  A person other than a  licenseecannot	engage	in the business of supplying  energy  exceptwith  the previous sanction of the State Government  and  s.28(1)  authorises the State Government to impose  conditionssubject	 to  which  it proposes	 to  grant  sanction.	Thisposition  is  not  disputed; but the argument  is  that	 theconditions  which  can be legitimately imposed	in  grantingsanction must be such as would relate to or have bearing  onthe business of supplying energy.  Such conditions " in thisbehalf	", it is urged, cannot include any conditions as  tocompulsory acquisition of the property of the person to whomsanction  is intended to be given.  The acquisition of	suchproperty does not relate and has no bearing on the  businessof  supplying energy and is in no manner connected with	 it.It would be competent to the State Government to provide forthe  area  of supply, the aerial lines, the  nature  of	 thesupply,	 the  limitation  of prices to be  charged  for	 thesupply of energy and the purchase of energy in bulk.   Theseand  other  similar conditions can be properly	regarded  asconditions " in behalf of " the business if supplying energy;  but	the  condition	of  compulsory	acquisition  of	 thesupplier's  property cannot be treated as falling  under  s.28(1).In  support of this construction reliance is placed  on	 theprovisions  of ss. 5 and 6 which specifically deal with	 thequestion about the acquisition of the undertaking.   Section3 of the Act provides for the granting of licences and s.  4for  the  revocation  and  amendment  of  licences.   Havingprovided  for  the grant, revocation and  amendment  of	 thelicences s. 5 deals inter			    245alia  with  the	 question of  paying  compensation.  to	 thelicensee whose licence has been revoked similary s. 6  makesappropriate  provisions for compensation  where	 the licenceof  local  authority has been revoked.	Section	 7  makes  aprovision  for the purchase of an undertaking and lays	downthe  procedure for determining the value of the	 properties.The  petitioners urge that where the Legislature thought  itnecessary  to acquire properties of the licensees either  onthe  revocation or the cancellation of the licences  it	 hasmade express provisions in that behalf; a similar  provisionwould  have  been  made in respect  of	persons	 other	thanlicensees to whom sanction is granted under s. 28 if it	 wasin the contemplation of the Legislature that the  propertiesof  such  persons  may be  acquired.   Thus  presented,	 theargument  no  doubt appears to be  plausible.	Prima  faciethere is. some force in the contention that conditions "  inthis  behalf " in the context should mean  conditions  whichare relevant to or connected with the business of  supplyingenergy.	 In deciding this question, however, it is essentialto bear in mind the Specialnature    of	  the	 article,viz., energy for the supply ofwhich	sanction     isgranted, and to take intoaccount the scheme of the  Actin regard to the conditions which are intended to be imposedon the business of its supply.In this connection it would not be unreasonable to ascertainhow  the  supply  of. energy is	 regulated  in	England	 andAmerica.   It  is  clear  that	the  Act  is  based  on	 theprovisions  of	the English law and it would  be  useful  toinquire,  whether  conditions  for the	acquisition  of	 thesupplier's property were treated as a part of the conditionson  which the supplier was allowed to carry on the  businessof  supplying  electricity.  This aspect  is  considered  byHalsbury  under	 the heading Acquisition of  undertaking  by-Local	Authority  In Local Authority ", it is	observed,  "within whose jurisdiction the area of supply or any part  ofit is situated may within six months after the expiration of42  years  or any shorter period specified  in	the  specialorder from the coming to force of the said246order ... by a notice in writing require the undertakers  tosell and thereupon the undertakers must sell too them  theirundertaking  or so much -of it as within  its  jurisdiction)upon terms of paving the then value of all lands, buildings,works,	materials and plant of the undertakers	suitable  toand  used by them for the purpose of the undertaking  withinsuch jurisdiction such value to be determined by arbitrationin case of difference (1)".  It would thus appear that wheresanction was given to a person for carrying on the  businessof supplying electricity under a special order, a  conditionwas  introduced in the said order itself for the  compulsoryacquisition  of	 the  undertaking  on  payment	of  adequatecompensation to the person concerned.  Subsequently,	 after the passing of the Electric  LightingAct, 1909, powers to supply electricity were not granted  byprovisional  orders but a large number of such orders  stillremained in force; and, as Halsbury has observed, " many  ofthese  orders  are in a standard form but a  number  containspecial clauses of which the most common is a clause  givingspecial purchase rights to local Authorities.  These specialorders were confirmed by Acts and contained special  clausesfor the protection of county bridges, for the breaking up ofstreets,  for the connection of the generating stations	 andsystems	 of  different	undertakings and  the  use  of	suchgenerating  stations  in  common for  the  purpose  of	suchundertakings  " (2).  It is thus clear that where a  licencewas  given  to a person to supply electricity  it  generallyincluded the right of the licensing authority to acquire thelicensee's property on terms and conditions included in	 thelicence by the provisional order. The  American	lawyers describe the right or  privilege  tosupply electricity as a franchise.  This right falls under aclass  of rights " in public streets which are	granted	 forfurtherance  of public purposes but which involving as	theydo  the right to use the streets in(1)  Halsbury's "Laws of  England", Vol. 12, 2nd  Ed.,	page597, Art. 1152.(2)  Halsbury's	 "Laws of England", Vol. 12, 2nd  Ed.,	page668, footnote (t).247 various ways, give rise to a series of questions as betweenthe   grantee  of  the	right  on  the	one  hand  and	 themunicipality  or abutting owners on the other " Dillon in  "Muncipal   Corporations	 "  further  observes  that  "	 forconvenience these rights are described as franchises to	 usethe  public streets and highways, and whether  correctly  orincorrectly denominated franchises, they answer in essentialrespects to the definition and elements of a franchise	fromthe State ". " The business of furnishing water and light ",observes  the author, " when carried on by a corporation  orindividual,  of	 necessity involves the use of	streets	 andhighways  of the municipality; and the right to	 lay  pipes,mains  and  conduits, and to erect poles and  stretch  wirestherein	 and  to  maintain,  operate  and  use	them,  is  afranchise vested in the State, and it can only be  exercisedby  a  corporation or individual pursuant to  the  authoritygranted by the State "(2). The  question	of  the purchase of works  of  companies  bymunicipality  is  also	considered by  Dillon:	"    Where amunicipal corporation has granted a franchise to a water  orgas company to construct its plant, to use the city  streetsfor  pipes and mains, and to furnish water or light  to	 thecity  and  its	inhabitants,  it  has  been  held  that	 thelegislature  under special constitutional  restrictions	 waswithout	 authority  to	compel	the  city  to  purchase	 theproperty or plant of the company if it desired to acquire orconstruct   works  of  its  own;  but  in  the	absence	  ofconstitutional	limitations  statutes  may  be	enacted	 andcontracts made which in their effect prevent  municipalitiesfrom  establishing water works of their own until they	haveat  least  offered  to purchase the  works  of	corporationsorganised  and	existing  within their limits  "  (3).	 Thelearned author also says that " If a municipality stipulatesin  a contract with a water or other public service  companythat  it shall have the- right to purchase the works of	 thecompany at a time and in a  (1)	  Dillon's  "Municipal Corporations", 5th Ed.,	Vol.111, P. 1905, S. 1210.  (2)	  Dillon's  ,Municipal Corporations", 5th Ed.,	Vol.111, p. 213637 S. 1304. (3) Ibid, P. 2183, s. 1312,248manner specified, and if such stipulation is inserted in andbecomes	  a   part  of	a  grant  of  the   right   to	 useElectric  the streets and public places of the	municipalityfor  the  purpose  of laying mains and	pipes,	the  corpor-ation is estopped to deny the authority of the	municipalityto make and enforce the stipulation " (1).  In  New Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Louisiana Light and	HeatProducing and Manufacturing Co. (2), it has been held by theSupreme	 Court	of the United States of America that  "	 themanufacture and distribution of gas by means of pipes, mainsand  conduits  placed  under legislative  authority  in	 thepublic	ways of a municipality, is not an ordinary  businessin  which everyone may engage as of common right upon  termsof  equality;  but is a franchise, relating  to	 matters  ofwhich the public may assume control and, when not  forbiddenby  the	 organic  law of the State, may be  granted  by	 theLegislature  as a means of accomplishing public	 objects  towhomsoever, and upon what terms, it pleases ". In that	casethe  question which arose for decision of the court  relatedto the validity of the constitutional prohibition upon Statelaws  impairing	 the obligation of contracts but  with	thataspect	of  the matter we are not concerned in	the  presentappeal.	 It thus appears that American lawyers describe	 thebusiness  of  supplying energy as well as  the	business  ofsupplying water and gas as a franchise, and it also  appearsthat  in granting licence or sanction to a person to  engagein  such  business, a condition is usually imposed  for	 thecompulsory  acquisition of the business when the licence  orsanction comes to an end.  Let  us  look at this question from a practical  point  ofview.	If  a person is granted sanction to  engage  in	 thebusiness of supplying energy it is not denied that s.  28(1)would justify the imposition of a time limit on the grant ofsanction.  If sanction is granted for a specified number  ofyears,	and  it	 comes to an end what would  happen  to	 theconstructions  made  by	 the supplier  for  the	 purpose  ofsupplying energy ? He(1)  Ibid.   P. 2187, S. 1312. (2) 115 U.S. 650; 29  L.	 Ed.516.249cannot dismantle them because thereby he would cause  damageto  public property such as streets, and so he	cannot	takethem away.  In such a case the Legislature may well  providefor  the  acquisition  of such	constructions  in  order  tosafeguard  the	interest  of the person	 to  whom  temporarysanction  is granted.  Such a provision also serves  anotherpublic	purpose. It guarantees the availability of  suitableconstructions	and  works  which  may	be  used   for	 thecontinuance of the supply of electricity by another  agency.In other words, the statutory provision which deals with thegrant  of sanction to a person to engage in the business  ofsupplying energy must, having regard to the special featuresof  the business, necessarily deal with the  position  whichwould  arise on the termination of the sanction; and  so  itwould  not  be	unreasonable to assume	that  the  statutoryprovisions  which  deals with this question would  think  ofmaking adequate provision empowering the State Government toprovide for the compulsory acquisition of the assets of	 thesupplier  on payment of proper compensation.  It is  in	 thelight  of this special feature of the business of  supplyingenergy that we must construe s. 28(1) of the Act.Besides,  the  provisions  of ss. 5, 6	and  7	also  affordassistance  in	the matter.  They clearly show that  in	 thecase of a licence specific provisions have been made for theacquisition  of	 the undertaking in cases of  revocation  orcancellation of licences.  The reason for thus providing forcompulsory acquisition of licensee's undertaking is  equallyrelevant  in  the case of the sanction with which  s.  28(1)deals.	 It  is true that s. 28 does  not  specifically	 andexpressly provide for compensation as the other sections do;but  that must be because recourse to the provisions of	 Pt.III was intended not to be the rule but only as a  temporarymeasure	 wherever it was deemed necessary to do so;  and  sothe  Legislature left it to the State Government to  providefor  compulsory	 acquisition in the light  of  the  guidancegiven by the provisions contained in ss. 5, 6 and 7.Let  us	 then look at s. 28(1) in the light  of	 these	con-siderations.  It authorises the State Government to32250give  sanction	to  a person to engage in  the	business  ofsupplying   energy  on	conditions  in	that  behalf.	 Theexpression " such conditions in this behalf " in the contextshould	  -take	   in	conditions    dealing	 with	 thePosition  which	 would inevitably arise	 when  the  businesscomes	to   an	  end.	 There	is   no	  doubt	  that	 thegrant of sanction contemplated by s. 28 cannot be permanent.It-was	always	bound to be temporary, issued on an  ad	 hocbasis  according to the requirement of each case,  and	whengranting  sanction for a specified number of years it is  inthe  interest  of the grantee himself  that  some  provisionshould	be  made  for payment of  compensation.	 to  him  inrespect	 of the investment made by him in carrying  out	 thebusiness  of  supplying energy when otherwise  it  would  bedifficult  for	him to collect his assets  in  that  behalf.That  is why we think that the relevant words should not  begiven  a  narrow  and limited  construction  for  which	 thepetitioners  contend.  In our opinion, the context  requiresthat  the  said	 words should receive a	 wider	and  liberalconstruction.	A  condition  for  the	acquisition  of	 theproperty  of the petitioners, like cl. 11 would,  therefore,fall  within  the scope of s. 28(1).  The challenge  to	 thevalidity  of this condition on the ground that it  is  ultravires s. 28(1) must accordingly fail.  If  s. 28 permits the imposition of such a condition	doesit violate Art. 19 or Art. 31 of the Constitution ?  That isthe  next  question  which must be considered.	 It  is	 notseriously  disputed  that Art. 31(2) on	 which	reliance  isplaced by the petitioners cannot be of much help to them forArt. 31(5) provides inter alia that nothing in cl. (2) shallaffect the provisions of any existing law other than the lawto which the provisions of cl. (6) applies.  It is  concededthat  cl. (6) does not apply to the Act, so that it  followsthat Art. 31(2) cannot be invoked to challenge the  validityof  the	 Act. Mr. Veda Vyas attempted to  contend  that	 thevires of the Act could be challenged if not under Art. 31(2)at  least  under s. 299(2) of the Government of	 India	Act,1935;  but  he	realised that he was up	 against  a  similardifficulty created by the provisions of s. 299(4) which saysthat nothing in s. 299 shall affect the provisions251of  any law in force at the date of the passing of the	Act;and  he	 conceded that in 1910 when the Act was	 passed	 theLegislature  was competent to -pass it and it then  sufferedfrom  no infirmity.  That is why though an attempt was	madeto  press into service	Art. 31(2) it  was  ultimately givenup.  We need not, therefore, discuss this point any further. In  regard  to the attack on s. 28 on the  ground  that  itoffends	 Art.  19(f)  or (g) the  answer  is  obvious.	 Thelimitations  imposed by s. 28 quite clearly  are  reasonablerestrictions  and have been imposed in the interests of	 thegeneral	 public	 within	 the meaning of	 Art  19(5)  of	 theConstitution.  As we have already seen such limitations	 aregenerally  imposed on the business of supplying	 energy	 andtheir  reasonableness  cannot be and has in  fact  not	beenseriously  challenged.	Therefore, we have no hesitation  inholding that the vires of s.  28   cannot  be	successfullychallenged.Incidentally  we  may  observe	that on	 the  day  when	 theConstitution came into force what vested in the	 petitionerswas  the property subject to the liability imposed on it  bycl.  11 of the notification; and so, when  the	Constitutioncame into force the only rights which the petitioners had intheir  property	 in  question  were  rights  of	 a   limitedcharacter which were subject to the exercise by the State ofits  election  to  acquire  the	 said  property.   In	thisconnection  the	 respondents rely on, the decision  of	thisCourt in Director of Endowments, Government of Hyderabad  v.Akram  Ali(1)  and  seek to urge that the  exercise  of	 theoption	given to respondent 1 by cl. 11 of  the-notificationcannot be successfully challenged as ultra vires under	Art.19 of the Constitution; we do not, however, think it  neces-sary  to  decide this point because it was  fairly  concededbefore us that if s. 28 is valid and is construed to includea condition like cl.  It of the notification no other  pointwould survive.There  is  one more minor point to which  reference  may  bemade.	In the petition the validity of the notice given  byrespondent   to the petitioners prohibiting them from dealingwith the property was(1)  A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 60.252challenged;  but  that	is no longer  a	 matter	 in  disputebetween	 the  parties since respondent I  has  in  substancewithdrawn the said notice.  This fact, however, would  berelevant on the question of costs.The result is the petition fails but in the circumstances ofthis case there would be no order as to costs.				 Petition dismissed.253