PETITIONER:RAGHUVANSHI MILLS, LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/12/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.KAPUR, J.L.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  743		  1961 SCR  (2) 978 CITATOR INFO : F	    1961 SC1154	 (6,8) R	    1967 SC 768	 (13) RF	    1976 SC1141	 (3,13)ACT:Income Tax--Majority shares of the assessee company held  byDirectors and their relations, if can be treated as held  bythe Public--Test--Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of  1922),S. 23A, Third Proviso, Explanation (before amendment by	 theFinance Act, 1955).HEADNOTE:One  Maganlal Parbhudas who was a Director of  the  assesseecompany held 6,344 shares out of a total of 10,000 shares ofthe company and he made a gift of 1000 shares to each of hisfive  sons.   During the accounting period the	company	 hadeight  Directors including the said Maganlal  Parbhudas	 andtwo  of	 his  sons  and they held  4695	 shares	 as  betweenthemselves.   Out of the balance of the shares	4754  shareswere held by the relatives of some of the Directors.   Threesons  of Maganlal Parbhudas were Directors of  the  ManagingCompany.   The	Income-tax  Officer applied s.	23A  of	 theIncome-tax  Act	 as it stood prior to its amendment  by	 theFinance Act, 1955 to the company holding that this was not acompany	 in which the public were substantially	 interested.The order of the Income Tax Officer was confirmed on  appealboth  by the Assistant Commissioner and the  Tribunal.	 TheHigh Court remitted the case to the Tribunal for a statementwhether the Directors were exercising de facto control	overany of the other shareholders.	The Tribunal thereupon	gavethe finding that the Directors, particularly the three	sonsof  Maganlal  Parbhudas	 who formed  the  Directors  of	 theManaging  Company were under the de facto control  of  theirfather.	  The  High  Court agreed with the  finding  of	 thetribunal and held that on the facts and circumstances of thecase the shares held by the three sons of Maganlal Parbhudascould not be considered to be shares held by the members  ofthe  public  within the meaning of the	Explanation  to	 thethird proviso to S. 23A of the Income Tax Act.	On appeal bythe assessee company,Held,  that in the Explanation the word "public" is used  incontradistinction  to one or more persons who act in  unisonand  among  whom the voting power constitutes a	 block.	  Ifsuch a block exists and possesses more than seventy five percent of the voting power, then the company cannot be said tobe one in which the public are substantially interested.Sardar Baldev Singh v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi andAjmer, [1961] 1 S.C.R. 482, considered.The test is first to find out whether there is an individualor  a group which controls the voting power as a block.	  Ifthere  is such a block the shares held by it cannot be	saidto be held979"unconditionally"  or  "beneficially" by the  public.	Onlythose shares which are "unconditionally" and  "beneficially"held by the public uncontrolled by the controlling group canbe   treated  as  shares  held	by  the	 public	 under	 theExplanation.   The  group may be composed  of  Directors  ortheir  nominees or relations in different combinations,	 butnone can be said to belong to that c group, be he a Directoror   a	relative  unless  he  does  not	 hold	the   sharesunconditionally	 and beneficially for himself.	It  is	onlysuch  a	 person	 who  can fall	properly  outside  the	word"public".The  view  that Directors merely by reason  of	their  beingDirectors stand outside the "public" is erroneous.Commissioner of Income-tax v. H. Bjordal, [1955] A. C.	309,followed.Mere  relationship is of no consequence unless it is  provedthat  the  voting  power of one relative  is  controlled  byanother relative.Tatem  Steam Navigation Co. v. Commissioner of Inland  Reve-nue, (1941) 24 T.C. 56, followed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 30 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  1, 1955, of the Bombay High Court  in  Income-taxReference No. 37 of 1952.N.   A. Palkhivala and I. N. Shroff, for the appellant.K.   N.	  Rajagopala   Ayyangar	 and  D.  Gupta,   for	 therespondent.1960.	December 7. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyHIDAYATULLAH,  J.-The  Raghuvanshi  Mills  Ltd.,  Bombay  (apublic	limited Company), has filed this appeal	 by  specialleave  against the judgment and orders of.the High Court  ofBombay dated March 10, 1953, and September 1, 1955.  By	 thefirst  order, the Bombay High Court directed the  Income-taxTribunal to submit a supplementary statement in the case  inthe  light  of its judgment, giving the parties	 liberty  tolead  further  evidence, if any.  By the second	 order,	 theHigh  Court re-framed the question, and answered it  againstthe assessee.The assessee Company's issued and subscribed capital was, atthe material time, Rs. 10,00,000 divided into 10,000  sharesof Rs. 100 each.  Prior to980November  14,  1941,  one  Maganlal  Parbhudas,	 who  was  aDirector of the Company, held 6,344 shares.  On November 14,1941,  he  made a gift of 1,000 shares to each of  his	fivesons,  Ravindra, Surendra, Bipinchandra,  Hareshchandra	 andKrishnakumar.  We are concerned with the account year of theCompany,  April 1, 1942, to March 31, 1943,  the  assessmentyear  being 1943-44.  In that year, the dividend  which	 wasdeclared at the Annual General Meeting held on December	 17,1943,  was less than what was required under s. 23A  of	 theIndian	Income-tax  Act.   The	question,  therefore,  arosewhether	 the  Company could be said to be one  to  which  s.23A(1)	of the Act was applicable, regard being had  to	 thethird proviso and the Explanation under it.During	 the  accounting  period,  the	Company	 had   eightDirectors,  whose names along with the	shares	respectivelyheld by them are given below:						 Shares(1)  Shri Maganlal Parbhudas			 1,344(2)  Ravindra Maganlal				 1,168(3)  Surendra Maganlal...			 1,100(4)  Amritlal Chunilal (jointly with     Babulal Chunilal)...			  833(5)  Babulal Chunilal....			  100(6)  Bhagwandas Harakchand....			   50(7)  Haridas Purshottam..			   50(8)  Sir Chunilal B. Mehta (jointly    with Lady Tapibai Chunilal)			   50					      -----------					  Total	 4,695					-----------------Out of the balance of the shares, 4,754 shares were held  bythe  relatives	of  some of the	 above-named  Directors,  asstated below:					    Shares(1)  Shrimati Kantabai Maganlal (wife of a Director)			     771(2)  Shri Bipinchandra Maganlal		     1,000(3)  Shri Hareshchandra Maganlal(son of a Director)			      1,000(4)  Shri Krishnakumar Maganlal (do)	      1,000981(5)  Shrimati Dhanlaxmi Mohanlal(6)  Srimati Prabhavati Nanalal Harilal(5 and 6 daughters of a Director)	       50(7)  Shri Hirjibhai Purshottam and HaridasPurshottam (brothers of a Director)	       25(8)  Shri Dhanjibhai Purshottamand Haridas Purshottam (brothersof a Director)				       25(9)  Shri Chimanlal Vithaldas(cousin of a Director)			      833					 ------------				     Total  4,754					---------------The  remaining	551 shares were held by the members  of	 thepublic,	 who  were not connected with the Directors  of	 theCompany in any way.Before	March,	1942, Messrs.  Ravindra Maganlal  and  Bros.were the Managing Agents of the Company.  Maganlal Parbhudaswas the sole proprietor of that firm.  On March 7, 1942, theCompany	 appointed  Ravindra  Maganlal &  Co.  Ltd.  as	 theManaging  Agents  for. a period of 20 years.   The  ManagingCompany	 had  a total issued and subscribed capital  of	 Rs.5,000 and the five sons of Maganlal Parbhudas who have	beennamed  before had subscribed that capital  equally.   Duringthe  account year, Maganlal Parbhudas and two of  his  sons,Ravindra  Maganlal and Surendra Maganlal, were three of	 theDirectors   of	 the  Company.	  Ravindra,   Surendra	 andBipinchandra were Directors of the Managing Company.On these facts, the Income-tax Officer applied s. 23A (as itstood  prior to its amendment by the Finance Act,  1955)  tothe  Company, holding that this was not a Company  in  whichthe public were substantially interested.  The order of	 theIncome-tax  Officer  was confirmed on appeal,  both  by	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner and	the  Tribunal.	 TheTribunal also refused to state a case under s. 66(1) of	 theIncometax  Act, but the High Court of Bombay   acting  unders.   66(2) called for a statement of the case on thequestion:"Whether on the facts and circumstances of the124982case  the provisions of s. 23A of the Indian Income-tax	 Act(XI of 1922) are applicable to the petitioners?" In  statingthe  cases  the	 Tribunal  pointed  out	 that  probably	 thequestion ought to have been:"Whether  on the facts and circumstances of the	 case  1,000shares	each  held  by	Bipinchandra,  Haresh  chandra	 andKrishnakumar in the capital of the assessee Company are heldby  members  of	 the  public  within  the  meaning  of	 theExplanation to the third proviso to s. 23A?"The  members of the Tribunal in deciding the  appeal  beforethem,  gave  slightly different reasons.  According  to	 theAccountant Member, the shares held by persons interested  inthe Managing Company were under the control of the Directorsof  the	 appellant Company, and those persons could  not  beconsidered to be members of the public.	 The Judicial Memberheld that the Directors were controlling the shareholders ofthe Company, that their relatives were mere nominees,  whosevoting	power was controlled by the Directors, and that	 thepublic	could  not, therefore, be said to  be  substantiallyinterested,  as	 required by the Explanation  to  the  thirdproviso to the section.When  the  High	 Court heard the case,	the  learned  Judgesaddressed  themselves to the question, what was	 the  propermeaning	 of  the  expression "held by  the  public"  in	 theExplanation.  They came to the conclusion that the object ofthe  third proviso and the Explanation was that	 the  votingpower to be exercised by the public should be independent ofthe control of the Directors, and that the word "Public" wasused in contradistinction to the Directors.  They apparentlythought that a holding by a Director could not be described,in  any event, as a holding by the public.  The	 High  Courtcame to the tentative opinion that both the tests stated  bythe   Accountant  Member  and  the  Judicial   Member	wereincorrect, and held that what the law required was de  factocontrol,  4 c a control which is, in fact,  exercised,"	 andthat no finding appeared to have been given on that point bythe Tribunal.  The case was accordingly remitted to983the Tribunal for submission of a fresh statement of the casewhether the Directors were exercising de facto control. overany  of the other shareholders, who belonged to	 the  secondcategory mentioned by us above.	 The Tribunal thereupon	 re-stated the case, and after examining further evidence,	gavethe finding that the Directors, particularly the three	sonsof  Maganlal  Parbhudas	 who formed  the  Directors  of	 theManaging  Company were under the de facto control  of  theirfather.	 At no stage in the case did the Tribunal alter	 thefinding	 reached  by the Department that the shares  of	 theCompany	 were  not,  in fact,  freely  transferable  by	 theholders to members of the public.The  High  Court  then reheard the case,  and  came  to	 theconclusion  that  there was evidence on which  the  Tribunalcould  hold  that  Maganlal  Parbhudas	exercised  de  factocontrol	 over his three sons.  In view of this finding,	 theHigh  Court  held that the order made by  the  Tribunal	 wascorrect,  and  answered the question in	 the  negative,	 re-framing it as follows:"Whether  on  the facts and circumstances of  the  case	 theshares held by Bipinchandra, Harishchandra and	Krishnakumarcan be considered to be shares held by members of the publicwithin	the meaning of the explanation to the third  provisoto  Section  23A?"  The	 High  Court  refused  to  grant   acertificate; but the Company has obtained special leave fromthis Court, and has filed this appeal.It is first contended that the test that the shares held  bythe  Directors	of  a company are not shares  in  which	 thepublic are substantially interested is incorrect.  Accordingto  learned counsel, all the authorities, the  Tribunal	 andthe High Court have proceeded on this wrong assumption,	 andhave  failed  to  apply the proper test	 laid  down  by	 theExplanation  to	 the third proviso.  It may be	pointed	 outthat  there  is no dispute that 551 shares, were,  in  fact,held  by the public.  The total shares of the Company  being10,000,	 the  Company can only avoid the application  of  s.23A, if the public hold shares carrying not less than 25 percent.  of  the voting power, that is to say,  2,500  shares.The Directors between them hold 4,695 shares.  These984have been held by the High Court to be shares, which  cannotbe said to be beneficially held by the public.	Even so,  ifthe rest of the shares can be said to be held by the public,then  the minimum 25 per cent. would still be  reached.	  Itwas in this context that the shares of the sons of Maganlal,Bipinchandra,	 Harishchandra	 and   Krishnakumar,	wereconsidered.  If those shares can be said to fall outside thecategory  of  shares beneficially held by the  public,	thenthose  shares  along with the shares held by  the  Directorsreduced	  the  number  of  shares  held	 by  the   remainingshareholders to less than 25 per cent.	It was on this	viewthat the case was remitted to the Tribunal by the High Courtto obtain a further statement whether Maganlal Parbhudas wasde facto controlling these three shareholders.Two  questions, therefore, arise in this appeal.  The  firstis  whether the shares held by the Directors must always  beregarded  as not held by the public.  The second is what  isthe meaning of the provision:"a  company  shall be deemed to be a company  in  which	 thepublic are substantially interested, if its shares  carryingnot less than twenty-five per cent. of the voting power havebeen	allotted    unconditionally    to,    or    acquiredunconditionally by, and are at the end of the previous	yearbeneficially held by the public." In this connection, we maypoint out that a ruling of the Privy Council appears to takea  different  view  from that taken by the  High  Court,  inregard	to  an	Uganda Ordinance in pari  materia  with	 theproviso and the Explanation.  We shall refer to that case asalso to a case of the House of Lords, where also a differentconclusion  in	law  from that of the High  Court  has	beenreached.Section	 23A (as it stood prior to its amendment  in  1955),omitting the portions not material, read as follows:"23A.	Power  to  assess  individual  members	of   certaincompanies.-Where the Income-tax Officer is satisfied that inrespect	  of  any  previous  year  the	profits	 and   gainsdistributed as dividends by any company up to the end of thesixth month after its accounts for that985previous year are laid before the company in general meetingare  less than sixty per cent. of the assessable  income  ofthe company of that previous year, as reduced by the  amountof  income-tax	and  super-tax payable	by  the	 company  inrespect thereof he shall, unless he is satisfied that havingregard to losses incurred by the company in earlier years orto the smallness of the profit made, the payment of a  divi-dend  or  a  larger dividend than  that	 declared  would  beunreasonable,  make  with  the	previous  approval  of	 theInspecting  Assistant Commissioner an order in writing	thatthe  undistributed portion of the assessable income  of	 thecompany	 of  that previous year as computed  for  income-taxpurposes and reduced by the amount of income-tax and  super-tax  payable  by  the company in respect  thereof  shall  bedeemed	to  have been distributed as dividends	amongst	 theshareholders   as  at  the  date  of  the  general   meetingaforesaid, and thereupon the proportionate share thereof  ofeach  shareholder shall be included in the total  income  ofsuch  shareholder  for the purpose of  assessing  his  totalincome:  ........................................Provided  further that this sub-section shall not  apply  toany company in which the public are substantially interestedor to a subsidiary company of such a company if the whole ofthe share capital of such subsidiary company is held by	 theparent company or by the nominees thereof.Explanation.-For  the purpose of this sub-section a  companyshall  be  deemed to be a company in which  the	 public	 aresubstantially  interested if shares of the company  carryingnot less than twentyfive per cent. of the voting power	havebeen	allotted    unconditionally    to,    or    acquiredunconditionally by, and are at the end of the previous	yearbeneficially held by the public...... and if any such shareshave in the course of such previous year been the subject ofdealings  in  any  stock  exchange or  are  in	fact  freelytransferable by the holders to other members of the public."It is clear from the third proviso that the sub-section986does  not  apply  to  a company	 in  which  the	 public	 aresubstantially interested.  The Explanation lays down,  amongthe  tests,  the  minimum  interest  which  can	 be   calledsubstantial'  by saying that shares of the company  carryingnot  less  than	 25 per cent. of the voting  power  must  beallotted unconditionally to, or acquired unconditionally by,the public and they must be beneficially held by the public.The  essence of the Explanation lies not in  the  percentagewhich  only  shows the limit of the minimum holding  by	 thepublic,	  but  lies  in	 the  words  "unconditionally"	 and"beneficially".	  These	 words underline the  fact  that  noperson	who holds a share or shares not for his own  benefitbut  for  the benefit of another and who does  not  exercisefreely his voting power, can be said to belong to that body,which is designated 'public'.  The word 'Public' is used  incontradistinction  to one or more persons who act in  unisonand  among  whom the voting power constitutes a	 block.	  Ifsuch a block exists and possesses more than seventy-five percent.  of the voting power, then the company cannot be	saidto be one in which the public are substantially	 interested.In  Sardar Baldev Singh v. The Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Delhi and Ajmer (1), this Court took the following view:"The section thus applies to a company in which at least  75per  cent. of the voting power lies in the hands of  personsother  than  the  public, which can only mean,	a  group  ofpersons	 allied together in the same interest.	The  companywould  thus have to be one which is controlled by  a  group.The  group  can	 do what it likes with the  affairs  of	 thecompany, of course, within the bounds of the Companies	Act.It  lies  solely in its hands to decide whether	 a  dividendshall be declared or not."judged	from  the test we have indicated, it is	 clear	thatsuch  a	 group may be formed by the Directors of  a  companyacting	in concert, or by some Directors acting	 in  concertwith  others or even by some , shareholder or  shareholders,none of whom may be a Director.	 Such a group which may, forconvenience, be(1)  [1961] 1 S.C.R. 482.987designated a block, must hold a controlling interest, and ifthe voting power of the block is 75 per cent. or more,	thenobviously  it can do anything at a meeting, whether  generalor special.When a company starts, the promoters may subscribe a portionof its capital and release the other unconditionally to	 thepublic.	 This is a case of unconditional allotment of sharesto the public.	The public may also unconditionally  acquirea  portion of the shares which were previously held  by	 thegroup  which  promoted the company.  If at the	end  of	 theprevious year 25 per cent. or more of the voting power is soheld by the public, the company can take the benefit of	 thethird proviso.	But if more than 75 per cent. of shares haveagain  passed  into  the hands of a group which	 acts  as  ablock, the third proviso ceases to apply.In  deciding if there is such a controlling interest,  thereis  no	formula applicable to all cases.   Relationship	 andposition  as  Director are not by themselves  decisive.	  Ifrelatives  act, not freely, but with others, they cannot  besaid to belong to that body, which is described as  'public'in the Explanation.  But it would be otherwise if they	werefree.  Similarly, if Directors or some of them do not act asa body or in concert with others, the fact that they are Di-rectors	 is  of no significance.  The case  of	Tatem  SteamNavigation Co., Ltd. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue	 (2)illustrates  the  first proposition.  There,  the  assessingCommissioners had made directions under s. 21 of the FinanceAct, 1922, against which the Company appealed on the  groundthat it was a Company in which the public were substantiallyinterested,  inasmuch as shares of the Company carrving	 notless than 25 percent. of the voting power had been  allottedunconditionally to or acquired unconditionally by, and were,at the end of the relevant periods, beneficially held by thepublic	and the decision of the Special	 Commissioners	that16,000	shares given by Lord Glanely to his niece  were	 notallotted  to or acquired by the public and that the  Companywas, therefore, not(1)  (1941) 24 T.C. 57.988a   Company   in  which	 the  public   were   "substantiallyinterested"  was  erroneous.  It was held by  Lawrence,	 J.,that merely because she was a niece of Lord Glanely did	 notmake  her cease to be a member of the public.  The Court  ofAppeal	agreed with Lawrence, J. No doubt, there were  otherprovisions  which laid down the kind of	 relationship  whichwould  lead to the inference that the holder was  controlledby another, and a niece was not such a relative.  The Act weare  considering did not lay down the kind  of	relationshipwhich would show such a control, and the same principle willapply.	Mere relationship thus is not of consequence, unlesscontrol	 of  the voting power held by such  a  relative,  byanother relative, is proved.The other test adopted in the case by the Bombay High  Courtthat  Directors	 stand	outside the  'public'  is  also	 notdecisive.  In Commissioner of Income-tax v.  H. Bjordal (1),the Judicial Committee dealt with s.	21(1) of the  IncomeTax Ordinance No. 8 of 1940 (Uganda), as amended by s. 5  ofthe Income Tax (Amendment) Ordinance, 1943.  That  provisionof  law	 is  completely in pari materia with  s.  23A.	 Twobrothers,  H. Bjordal and S. Bjordal, held 73.96  and  25.09per  cent.  of the voting power.  Five others  held  04	 percent.  of the voting power.  The shares held by	 S.  Bjordalwere  purchased	 for  full value by him	 from  his  brother.There  was  no	suggestion  that he was	 a  nominee  of	 therespondent  or	that  he  was acting  in  concert  with	 hisbrother.   Both brothers were Directors of the Company.	  Itwas  held by the Judicial Committee that shareholders  in  acompany	 who are members of the 'public' do not cease to  beso, because they become Directors.  In the Uganda  Ordinancealso, like our Act, there was no guidance as to the  meaningof  the word 'public', as there was in the  English  statuteconsidered in Tatem's case (2).It is significant that in Jubliee Mills Ltd. v. Commissionerof  Income-tax	(3),  Chagla, C. J., and S.  T.	 Desai,	 J.,speaking of the judgment under appeal and(1) [1955] A.C. 309.	   (2) [1941] 24 T.C. 57.(3)  [1958] 34 I.T.R. 30, 41.989taking into consideration the Privy Council case, observed:"It  may  be that our view is erroneous; and it	 may  be-andvery probably it is-that the view taken by the Privy Councilis the right one." In  our  judgment, the test is first to  find	out  whetherthere is an individual or a group which controls the  votingpower as a block.  If there be such a block, the shares heldby   it	  cannot  be  said  to	be   "unconditionally"	 and"beneficially"	held  by  members of  the  public.   In	 thecategory of shares held by the public, only those shares canbe  counted which are unconditionally and beneficially	heldby the public, or, in other words, which are uncontrolled bythe group, which controls the affairs.	The group itself maybe  composed of Directors or their nominees or relations  indifferent  combinations, but none can be said to be.long  tothat  group, be he a director or a relative unless  he	doesnot  hold  the shares unconditionally and  beneficially	 forhimself.   It is only such a person, who can  fall  properlyoutside the word 'public'.Judged	from this point of view, the judgment and orders  ofthe  High  Court  cannot be upheld.   Directors	 cannot,  byreason of being Directors, be said not to be members of	 thepublic.	  To that extent, the judgment is erroneous.   Thereis a finding by the Tribunal in the supplementary  statementof   the  case	that  the  shares  held	  by   Bipinchandra,Harishchandra  and  Krishnakumar were under the	 control  oftheir  father, Maganlal Parbhudas.  Their holding was  3,000and  with  Maganlal's holding of 1,344 shares,	makes  up  atotal of 4,344 shares.	Though the question as framed by theHigh  Court appears to have been correctly answered  in	 thenegative, it does not dispose of the matter.  The,  questionto be determined still is whether more than per cent. of theshares	are  not  beneficially	held  by  the  public.	  Weaccordingly  set aside the judgment and orders of  the	HighCourt,	and  direct the High Court to  decide  the  questionoriginally framed by it, viz.:"Whether on the facts and circumstances of the125990case the provisions of s. 23A of the Indian Income-tax	Act,XI of 1922, are applicable to the petitioners?"The High Court may call for a supplemental statement of	 thecase from the Tribunal, if it finds it neces  sary.The appeal is allowed.	The respondents shall bear the costsof this appeal.	 The costs in the High Court shall abide theresult.					  Appeal allowed.