PETITIONER:RAM PADARATH MAHTO	Vs.RESPONDENT:MISHRI SINGH & ANR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/11/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  480		  1961 SCR  (2) 470ACT:Election--Disqualification-Contract   with  Government	 forstocking  foodgrains-Whether  for  Performance	of  servicesundertaken  by Government-Representation of the People	Act,1951 (43 of 1951) S. 7(d).HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was a member of a joint Hindu  family  whichcarried	 on  the business of Government stockists  of  grainunder  a  contract  with  the  Government  of  Bihar.	 Hisnomination  for election to the Bihar  Legislative  Assemblywas rejected on the ground that he was disqualified under s.7(d)  of the Representation of the People Act, 195T,  as  hehad  an	 interest  in  a contract  for	the  performance  ofservices undertaken by the Bihar Government.  The  appellantcontended that the service undertaken by the Government	 wasthe sale of foodgrains under the Grain Supply Scheme and thecontract was not for the sale of such foodgrains and did notattract the provisions of S. 7(d).Held,  that the contract was not one for the performance  ofany  service undertaken by the Government and the  appellantwas not disqualified under s. 7(d).  A contract of  bailmentwhich  imposed	on the bailee the obligation  to  stock	 andstore  the foodgrains in his godowns was not a contract	 forthe  purpose  of  the service of sale  of  grain  which	 theGovernment  had undertaken.  The Government  had  undertakenthe work of supplying grain but the contract was not one forthe supply of grain.N.   Satyanathan  v. K. Subramanyam, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 83	 andV.   V. Ramaswamy v. Election Tribunal, Tirunelveli,  (1933)8 E.L.R. 233, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 388 of 1960.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary 3, 1959, of the Patna High Court in Election AppealNo. 10 of 1958.S.   P. Varma, for the appellant.L.   K. Jha and D. Govardhan, for respondent No. 1.L.   K. Jha and K. K. Sinha, for respondent No. 2.1960.  November 17.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredby471GAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-Is	the  appellant	Ram  Padarath  Mahtodisqualified  for membership of the Bihar Legislature  unders.  7(d)  of  the Representation of  the  People  Act,	1951(hereafter  called  the Act)?  That is	the  short  questionwhich  arises  for  our decision in the	 present  appeal  byspecial leave.	The appellant was one of the candidates	 forthe Dalsinghsarai Constituency in the District of  Darbhangain  Bihar for the State Legislature.  The said	Constituencyis  a Double-Member Constituency; it was required  to  electtwo  members,  one  for the general and the  other  for	 thereserved seat for scheduled castes in the Bihar	 LegislativeAssembly.  It appears that the said Constituency called uponvoters	to elect members on January 19, 1957.	January	 29,1957  was  fixed  as the last date for	the  filing  of	 thenomination papers.  The appellant filed his nomination paperon January 28, 1957, and on the next day seven other membersfiled  their  nomination papers.  On February 1,  1957,	 thenomination paper filed by the appellant was rejected by	 thereturning officer on two grounds; he held that the appellantbeing	an  Inspector  of  Co-operative	 Societies   was   aGovernment   servant  at  the  material	 time  and  so	 wasdisqualified from standing for election.  He also found thatthe  appellant was a member of a joint and  undivided  Hindufamily	which  carried	on the	business  of  Government  asstockiest  of grain under a contract between the  Governmentof Bihar and a firm of the joint family known as Nebi MahtonBishundayal  Mahto.  Thereafter the election was duly  held,and  Mr. Mishri Singh and Mr. Baleshwar Ram,  respondents  1and 2 were declared duly elected to the general and reservedseat  respectively.   The  validity  of	 this  election	 waschallenged by the appellant by his Election Petition No. 428of  1957.  To this petition he impleaded the two  candidatesdeclared  to have been duly elected and five others who	 hadcontested in the election.  Before the Election Tribunal theappellant  urged  that	he  was not in	the  employ  of	 theGovernment  of Bihar at the material time.  He	pointed	 outthat he had resigned his job on January 13,4721957,  and his resignation had been accepted on January	 25,1957,  relieving him from his post as from the	later  date.He  also contended that there was a partition in his  familyand  that  he had no share or interest in  the	contract  inquestion.   Alternatively  it was argued that  even  if	 theappellant  had an interest in the said contract it  did	 notfall within the mischief of s. 7(d) of the Act.	 These pleaswere  traversed	 by respondents 1 and 2	 who  contested	 theappellant's election petition.The  Election Tribunal found that the petitioner was  not  aGovernment servant on the day he filed his nomination paper,and  so according to it the returning officer was  wrong  inrejecting  his nomination paper on the ground that he was  aGovernment  servant  at	 the material  time.   The  ElectionTribunal  rejected  the appellant's case that  there  was  apartition in the family, and held that at the relevant	timethe  appellant continued to be a member of the	joint  Hindufamily which had entered into the contract in question	withthe  Government of Bihar.  However, in its  opinion,  havingregard	to  the	 nature	 of the said  contract	it  was	 notpossible  to hold that the appellant was disqualified  unders. 7(d), and so it came to the conclusion that the returningofficer was in error in rejecting the appellant's nominationpaper  on this ground as well.	In the result  the  Tribunalallowed the election petition, declared that the  nominationpaper had been improperly rejected, and that the election ofthe two contesting respondents was void.Against	 this decision the two contesting respondents  filedtwo  appeals  in the High Court at Patna  (Election  AppealsNos.  9 and 10 of 1958).  The High Court has  confirmed	 thefinding	 of  the  Tribunal  that the  appellant	 was  not  aGovernment servant at the material time.  It has also agreedwith  the  conclusion of the Tribunal that at  the  relevanttime  the  appellant  was a member of  the  undivided  Hindufamily.	  On the construction of the contract,	however,  itdiffered  from the view adopted by the Tribunal, and it	 hasheld that as a result of the said contract the appellant wasdisqualified under s. 7(d) of the Act.	This finding473inevitably  led	 to  the  conclusion  that  the	 appellant'snomination  paper had been properly rejected.  On that	viewthe  High  Court  did not think	 it  necessary	to  considerwhether	 the  Tribunal	was  right  in	declaring  void	 theelection  of  not only respondent 1 but of respondent  2  aswell.	It is against this decision of the High	 Court	thatthe appellant has come to this Court  by special  leave; andthe only question which is raised on his behalf is that	 theHigh Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that  hewas  disqualified  under  s. 7(d).   The  decision  of	thisquestion naturally depends primarily on the construction andeffect of the contract in question.Section	 7  of	the Act provides  for  disqualification	 formembership of Parliament or of State Legislatures.   Section7(d), as it stood at the material time and with which we areconcerned in the present appeal provides,, inter alia,	thata person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and	 forbeing,	a member of the Legislative Assembly of a State,  ifwhether	 by himself or by any person or body of	 persons  intrust  for him or for his benefit or on his account, he	 hasany share or interest in a contract for the supply of  goodsto, or for the execution of any works or the performance  ofany services undertaken by, the appropriate Government.	  Onthe  concurrent findings recorded by the High Court and	 theTribunal  it cannot now be disputed that the  appellant	 hasinterest in the contract in question; so that the first partof s. 7(d) is satisfied.  The High Court has found that	 thecontract  attracts  the	 last part of s.  7(d)	inasmuch  asaccording  to  the High Court the Government  of  Bihar	 hadundertaken  to discharge the service of supplying  grain  tothe  residents	of  Bihar and the firm	of  the	 appellant'sfamily	had entered into a contract for the  performance  ofthe said services.  The last part of s. 7(d) postulates thatthe appropriate Government has undertaken to perform certainspecific  services,  and it is for the performance  of	suchservices that the contract had been entered into by a  citi-zen.   In  other  words, if a citizen  has  entered  into  acontract with the appropriate Government for the60474performance   of  the  services	 undertaken  by	  the	saidGovernment  he	attracts the application of s.	7(d).	Thisprovision  inevitably  raises two questions:  what  are	 theservices  undertaken by the appropriate Government? Has	 thecontract  been entered into for the performance of the	saidservices?At this stage it is necessary to consider the material termsof  the	 contract.  This contract was made  on	February  8,1956, between the Governor of Bihar who is described as	 thefirst  party and the firm which is described as	 the  secondparty.	 The preamble to the contract shows that  the  firstparty  had  to	stock  and  store  foodgrains  in  DarbhangaDistrict for sale in pursuance of the Grain Supply Scheme ofthe  Government for which a proper custodian and bailee	 forreward was necessary.  It also recites that the second partyhad  applied  to become such custodian and  bailee  of	suchstock of foodgrains as the first party shall deliver to	 thesecond	party in one lump or from time to time on terms	 andin the manner expressly specified under the contract, or  asmay  be	 necessarily  implied.	Clause	1  of  the  contractprovides  that the second party shall, at the  direction  ofthe  first  party,  take over foodgrains  from	the  railwaywagons	or  from any place as directed by the  first  party;thereafter  the second party had to cause the grains  to  bestored	in his godown at Dalsinghsarai and had to  redeliverthe  same  to the first party after weighing either  at	 thesecond party's godown approved by the first party or at	 anyother place as directed by the first party.  The movement ofthe grain had to be done by the second party himself or by atransport contractor appointed by the first party.  Clause 2imposed	 on  the second party the liability  to	 maintain  aregister and keep accounts as prescribed thereunder.   Undercl.  3	the second party undertook to keep such	 stocks	 andestablishments	as  may	 be necessary at  his  own  expense.Clause	4  imposed upon the second party the  obligation  toprotect	 the stock of foodgrains or to make good the  lossesexcept	as  thereinafter provided: Clauses 5 to	 8  are	 notmaterial for our purpose.  Clause 9 provides that the secondparty shall deposit the sum of475Rs.  5,000 in a Savings Bank account which has been  pledgedto  the District Magistrate, Darbhanga, and comply with	 theother  conditions specified in the clause.  Clause 10  dealswith the remuneration of the second party.  It provides thatthe  first-party shall be liable to pay to the second  partyremuneration  for the undertaking in this agreement  at	 therate of Re. 1 per( cent on the value of the stocks moved  ortaken  over from his custody under the orders or  directionsof the first party or his agent calculated at the rate fixedby  the Government from time to time for wholesale sales  ofgrain.	 The  clause  adds that	 no  remuneration  shall  bepayable	 to the second party if the first party	 takes	overthe  whole of the balance stock lying with the second  partyfor  reasons of the termination of the agreement.  The	restof the clauses need not be recited.It would thus be seen that the agreement in terms is one  ofbailment.   The State Government wanted to entrust the	workof stocking and storing foodgrains to a custodian or bailee.In that behalf the appellant's firm made an application	 andultimately  was appointed a bailee.  There is no doubt	thatby  this contract the firm has undertaken to do the work  ofstocking  and  storing	foodgrains belonging  to  the  StateGovernment;  and  if  it can be	 reasonably  held  that	 theservice	 undertaken by the State Government in	the  presentcase  was  that of stocking the foodgrains the	contract  inquestion would obviously attract the provisions of s.  7(d).Mr. Varma, however, contends that the service undertaken  bythe  State  Government is the sale of foodgrains  under	 itsGrain Supply Scheme; and he argues that unless the  contractshows  that  it	 was for sale of the said  goods  it  cannotattract the provisions of s. 7(d).  Unfortunately the schemeadopted by the State Government for the supply of grain	 hasnot  been produced before the Election Tribunal, and so	 theprecise nature and extent of the services undertaken by	 theState  Government fall to be determined solely by  referenceto  the contract in question.  It is true that the  contractrelates to the stocking and storing of foodgrains which	 theState  Government wanted to sell to the residents of  Bihar;but can it be said476that stocking and storing of foodgrains was such an integralor  essential part of the selling of goods that	 a  contractfor  stocking and storing foodgrains should  necessarily  beregarded  as a contract for their sale?	 In our opinion,  itis  difficult  to  accept the  argument	 that  stocking	 andstoring	 of foodgrains is shown to be such an essential	 andintegral  part	of the supply scheme adopted  by  the  StateGovernment.Theoretically  speaking	 stocking  and	storing	  foodgrainscannot	be said to be essential for the purpose of  carryingout  the  scheme  of sale of foodgrains,  because  it  wouldconceivably be possible for the State Government to adopt  ascheme	whereby	 goods	may be supplied	 without  the  StateGovernment having to store them; and so the work of stockingand  storing of foodgrains may in some cases be	 conceivablyincidental to the scheme and not its essential part.  It  issignificant that sale of goods under the contract was  neverto  take place at the godown of the firm.  It had always  totake  place  at other selling, centers or shops;  and  thus,between	 the  stocking and storing of goods and	 their	salethere  is an element of time lag.  The only obligation	thatwas  imposed  on  the  firm by this contract  was  to  be  acustodian  or bailee of the goods, keep them in	 good  orderand  deliver them after weighment as directed by  the  firstparty.	 It cannot be denied that the remuneration  for	 thebailee has been fixed at the rate, of Re.  1 per cent on thevalue  of the stocks moved or taken over from  his  custody;but  that only shows the mode or method adopted by the	con-tract for determining the remuneration including rent of thegodowns;  it  cannot possibly show the relationship  of	 thecontract with the sale of goods even indirectly.  Can it  besaid that the contract entered into by the State  Governmentfor purchasing foodgrains from agriculturists who grow	themor  for transporting them after purchase to the godowns	 arecontracts  for	the sale or supply of  goods?	Purchase  ofgoods  and their transport are no doubt preparatory  to	 thecarrying  out  of the scheme of selling	 them  or  supplyingthem,  and yet it would be difficult to hold that  contractsentered into by the State Government with the agriculturistsor the transport agency is a contract for the477sale  of goods.	 We have carefully considered  the  materialterms  of this contract, and on the record as it  stands  weare unable to accept the conclusion of the High Court that acontract  of  bailment	which  imposed	on  the	 bailee	 theobligation  to stock and store the foodgrains in his  godowncan be said to be a contract for the purpose of the  serviceof  sale of grain which the State Government had  undertakenwithin the meaning of s. 7(d).It appears that before the High Court it was not disputed bythe  appellant that the service whose performance  had	beenundertaken  by the State Government consisted in the  supplyof  grain to the people of the State of Bihar; and the	HighCourt  thought	that  from  this  concession  it  inevitablyfollowed that the firm had a share and was interested in thecontract  for the performance of the service  undertaken  bythe Government of Bihar.  It seems to us that the concessionmade  by  the appellant does not inevitably  or	 necessarilylead  to  the  inference drawn by the High  Court.   If	 theservice	 undertaken  by	 the  State  Government	 is  one  ofsupplying  grain  how  does it	necessarily  follow  that  acontract  by which the bailee undertook to store  the  grainwas  a	contract  for the supply of  grain?   It  may  soundtechnical,  but in dealing with a statutory provision  whichimposes	 a  disqualification  on  a  citizen  it  would	  beunreasonable  to  take merely a broad and general  view	 andignore	the  essential points of distinction on	 the  groundthat  they  are technical.  The narrow question is:  if	 theState Government undertook the work of supplying the  grain,is  the	 contract  one	for the supply	of  grain?;  in	 ouropinion,  the  answer  to  this	 question  must	 be  in	 thenegative;  that	 is  why we think the  High  Court  did	 notcorrectly appreciate the effect of the contract when it heldthat  the said contract brought the appellant's case  withinthe mischief of s. 7(d).In coming to its conclusion the High Court thought that	 itsview  was  supported  by  a decision of	 this  Court  in  N.Satyanathan  v.	 K.  Subramanyan  (1).	 In  that  case	 theappellant who was a contractor had entered into an agreementwith the Central Government(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 83.478whereby he had offered to contract with the Governor-Generalfor the provision of a motor vehicle service for the transitand  conveyance	 of  all  postal  articles  for	 the  periodspecified  in  the contract, and  the  Governor-General	 hadaccepted  the  offer.  As a consideration for the  same	 theGovernment  had agreed to pay to the contractor Rs. 200	 permonth  during  the  subsistence of  the	 agreement  "as	 hisremuneration  for  the service to be rendered by  him".	  Itappears	 that  on this contract two  questions	were  raisedbefore this Court.  First it was urged that it could not  besaid that the Central Government had undertaken any  servicewithin	the  meaning  of s. 7(d) of the	 Act  when  it	madearrangements  for  the	carriage  of  mailbags	and   postalarticles  through  the	contractor.   This  contention	 wasrejected  on the ground that though the Government  was	 notbound in the discharge of its duties as a sovereign State tomake  provision	 for  postal mail service, it  had  in	factundertaken  to do so under the Indian Post Offices  Act	 forthe  convenience  of the public.  "It cannot  be  gainsaid",observed  Sinha,  J.,  as  he then  was,  "that	 the  postaldepartment is rendering a very useful service, and that	 theappellant has by his contract with the Government undertakento render that kind of service on a specified route"; and headded,	"the present case is a straightforward	illustrationof  the kind of contract contemplated under s. 7(d)  of	 theAct".	This straightforward illustration, in  our  opinion,clearly	 brings	 out the class and type of  contracts  whichfall  within s. 7(d) of the Act.  Government must  undertaketo render a specified service or specified services and	 thecontract  must be for the rendering of the said	 service  orservices.  That was precisely what the contract in the	caseof  N. Satyanathan (1) purported to do.	 It is difficult  tosee  how this case can be said to support the conclusion  ofthe High Court that the contract for stocking and storing ofgoods  is a contract for rendering the service of  supplyingand selling the same to the residents of the place.In  this connection Mr. Jha, for the respondents, has  drawnour attention to a decision of the Madras High(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R, 83.479Court  in V. V. Ramaswamy v. Election Tribunal,	 Tirunelveli(1).   In  that	 case  the Court  was  concerned  with	fourcontracts by which the contracting party agreed "to hold thereserve	 grain stock belonging to the Government of  Madras,safely	store  it,  and	 dispose  of  it  according  to	 thedirections  of	the Government".  In other words, it  was  acontract not only for the stocking and storing of foodgrainsbut  also of disposing of it, and that naturally meant	thatthe contract was for service which the State Government	 hadundertaken  to	perform.  This decision	 cannot	 assist	 therespondents in the present appeal.In the result we hold that the High Court was not  justifiedin  reversing the finding of the Tribunal that the  contractin question did not attract the provisions of s. 7(d) of theAct.  The appeal must, therefore, be allowed and  the  orderpassed by the High Court set aside.	We  cannot   finallydispose of the matter, because	   one	  question     stillremains to be considered, and that is whether the conclusionthat  the appellant's nomination paper had  been  improperlyrejected would lead to the decision that the election of notonly  respondent 1 but also respondent 2 should be  declaredto  be void.  The Election Tribunal has declared  the  wholeelection  to be void, and in their respective appeals  filedbefore	the High Court both the respondents have  challengedthe  correctness of that finding.  The High Court,  however,thought	 that since in its opinion the nomination  paper  ofthe appellant had been properly rejected it was	 unnecessaryto deal with the other point.  The point will now have to beconsidered  by	the High Court.	 We  would,  therefore,	 setaside the order passed by the High Court and remand the pro-ceedings  to  it in order that it may deal  with  the  otherquestion  and  dispose	of  the	 appeals  expeditiously	  inaccordance  with law.  In the circumstances of this case  wedirect that the parties should bear their own costs in	thisCourt.	Costs in the High Court will be costs in the  appealbefore it.					  Appeal allowed.(1)  (1953) 8 E.L.R. 233.480