PETITIONER:RAI BAHADUR KANWAR RAJ NATHAND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:PRAMOD C. BHATT, CUSTODIAN OFEVACUEE PROPERTY.DATE OF JUDGMENT:10/11/1955BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAMUKHERJEE, BIJAN KR. (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR  105		  1955 SCR  (2) 977ACT:Evacuee	 Property-Lease granted by Custodian-Notice to	can-cel-Custodian's	 power-Administration  of  Evacuee  PropertyAct, 1960 (XXXI of 1950), s. 12(1).HEADNOTE:By  s.,12,  sub-s.  1,	of  the	 Administration	 of  EvacueeProperty Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950) as amended by Act XLII  of1954,  notwithstanding anything contained in any  other	 lawfor  the time being in force, the Custodian may	 cancel	 anyallotment  or terminate any lease or amend the terms of	 anylease or agreement under which any evacuee property is	heldor  occupied by a person, whether such allotment,  lease  oragreement  was granted or entered into before or  after	 thecommencement of this Act".The  respondent	 who was the Custodian of  evacuee  propertygranted a lease to the appellants and subsequently issued  anotice	to  them, among other things, calling upon  them  toshow  cause  why  the  lease should  not  be  cancelled	 forcommitting   breaches  of  the	conditions  on	 which	 theproperties   had  been	leased	to  them.   The	  appellantscontended  that	 the respondent had no power to	 cancel	 thelease on the ground that under s. 12(1) of the Act the powerof the Custodian to cancel the lease could be exercised onlyso  as	to  override a bar imposed by any law  but  not	 thecontract  under which the lease was held and relied  on	 thelanguage  of  the  non-obstante	 clause	 contained  in	 thesection.Held,  that  the  operative portion  of	 the  section  whichconfers	 power	on  the	 Custodian  to	cancel	a  lease  isunqualified  and  absolute  and could  not  be	abridged  byreference to the non-obstante clause which was only insertedex  abundanti  cautela	with  a view  to  repel	 a  possiblecontention  that the section does not by implication  repealstatutes conferring rights on lessees.Observations in Aswini Kumar Ghose v. Arabinda Bose ([1963]S.C.R. 1, 21, 24) and Dominion of India v. Shrinbai A. Irani([1955]	 1 S.C.R. 206, 213), on the scope of a	non-obstanteclause, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 205 of 1954.On appeal from the judgment and order dated the97813th April 1954 of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 49 of1954  arising out of the order dated the 31st day  of  March1954 of the said High Court exercising its Ordinary OriginalJurisdiction in Misc.  Petition No. 55 of 1954.K.   T.	 Desai, P. N. Bhagwati, Rameshwar Nath and  RajinderNarain, for the appellants.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, (PorusA.   Mehta and B. H. Dhebar, with him), for the respondent.1955.  November 10.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AYYAR J.-This appeal raises a question as to thepowers of a Custodian of Evacuee Property to cancel a  leasegranted	 by  him under section 12 of the  Administration  ofEvacuee Property Act (XXXI of 1950), hereinafter referred toas  the Act.  Messrs Abdul Karim and Brothers  owned,  alongwith  certain  other properties which are not  the  subject-matter of the present appeal, three mills with bungalows andchawls at Ambernath in Thana District and the Bobbin Factoryat  Tardeo  in Bombay.	They having  migrated  to  Pakistan,these properties were declared by a notification dated 12-9-1951 issued under section 7 of the Act as evacuee  property,and under section 8(1) of the Act, they became vested in therespondent  as the Custodian for the State.  The  appellantsare  displaced	persons,  and on  30-8-1952  the  respondententered into an agreement with them, Exhibit A, which is, asaptly  characterised by learned counsel for the	 appellants,of  a  composite  character, consisting	 of  three  distinctmatters.  There was, firstly, a demise under which the millsand  the factory in question were leased to  the  appellantsfor  a period of five years on the terms and conditions	 setout therein. Secondly, there was a sale of the stock of	 rawmaterials, unsold finished goods, spare parts, cars,  trucksand other movables which were in the mills and the  factory,with elaborate provisions for the determination and  paymentof the price therefor in979due course.  And thirdly, there was an agreement to sell themills  and the factory to the appellants in  certain  eventsand subject to certain conditions.  There was also a  clausefor   referring	  the  disputes	 between  the	parties	  toarbitration.In  pursuance of this agreement, the appellants were put  inpossession  of the mills and the factory on  31-8-1952.	  On12-2-1954 the respondent issued a notice to the	 appellants,Exhibit	 C,  wherein  be set out  that	the  appellants	 hadsystematically	committed breaches of the various  terms  onwhich  the  properties bad been leased to them,	 and  calledupon  them  to	show  cause why	 the  lease  should  not  becancelled  and why they should not be evicted.	 The  noticethen  went  on to state that the  respondent  considered  itnecessary to issue certain directions for the  "preservationof  the demised premises and the goods and stock  in  trade,etc.,  lying  in the demised premises", and  the  appellantswere  accordingly required not to remove the stock or  raiseany money on the security thereof, and to send daily reportsto  the	 Custodian,  of	 the  transactions  with   referencethereto.   Presumably,	these directions  were	given  undersection 10 of the Act.	On 13-2-1954 the appellants appearedbefore	the respondent, and contended that he had  no  auth-ority to issue the notice in question under section 12,	 andthat it was therefore illegal.	Apprehending that the  leasemight  be  cancelled, and that they might  be  evicted,	 theappellants  filed on 16-2-1954 the application out of  whichthe  present  appeal arises, for a writ	 of  certiorari	 forquashing   the	notice,	 Exhibit  C,  and  for	a  writ	  ofprohibition  restraining  the  respondent  from	 taking	 anyfurther action pursuant thereto.In  support  of	 the petition,	the  appellants	 urged	thatsection	 12  under  which the respondent  purported  to	 actauthorised  the cancellation of only leases granted  by	 theevacuee	 and  not  by the Custodian  himself,  and  that  nodirections  could  be given under section 10 as	 it  appliedonly  to properties of the evacuee, and that by	 reason-  ofthe  sale, the movables in question had become the  propertyof the appel-124980lants.	The petition was heard by Tendolkar, J., who  statedthe points for determination thus:(1)  "Whether  the Custodian has power under section  12  ofthe  Administration  of	 Evacuee  Property  Act,  1950,	  toterminate a lease granted by himself, and(2)  Whether  the  directions  given by	 the  Custodian	 arebeyond the jurisdiction conferred upon him by section 10  ofthe said Act?"On the first question, he held that section 12 applied	onlyto  leases granted by the evacuee and not by the  Custodian,and  that therefore the notice, Exhibit C, was	ultra  viresthe  powers  of the Custodian under that  section.   On	 thesecond	question,  he held that section 10 applied  only  toproperties of the evacuee, and that the movables in  respectof which directions were given, ceased to be the property ofthe  evacuee  by  reason  of  the  sale	 in  favour  of	 theappellants,  and  that in consequence, the  directions	withreference  to  them were unauthorised.	In the	result,	 theapplication was allowed.The respondent took the matter in appeal, and that was heardby Chagla, C.J. and Dixit, J. By their judgment dated  13-4-1954, they held that on the plain language of section 12  itwould  apply whenever there was a lease, and that lease	 wasin respect of property belonging to the evacuee, that  therewas  no	 warrant for imposing a further limitation  on	thatsection that that lease should also have been granted by theevacuee,  and  that accordingly the Custodian had  power  toissue  the notice, Exhibit C, for cancelling the lease.	  Asregards	 movables, however, they agreed with  Tendolkar,  J.that  for  the	reasons given by him the  Custodian  had  noauthority  under  section 10 to issue  any  directions	withreference thereto.  The appeal was accordingly allowed in sofar  as	 it related to the lease but  dismissed	 as  regardsmovables.Against	 this judgment, the appellants have  preferred	thisappeal	on  a certificate granted by the  High	Court  underarticle	 133(1)	 (b),  and the only point  that	 arises	 fordetermination therein is as to whether the Custodian has thepower under section 12 to981cancel	a lease granted by himself and not by  the  evacuee.But  that question is no longer open to argument,  as  therehas  been  subsequent  to the decision of  the	court  belowlegislation  which concludes the matter.  Section 5  of	 theAdministration	of  Evacuee Property (Amendment)  Act,	1954(XLII  of 1954) enacts the following Explanation to  section12 of Act XXXI of 1950:"In this sub-section 'lease' includes a lease granted by theCustodian and 'agreement' includes an agreement entered intoby the Custodian".And it provides that the Explanation "shall be inserted	 andshall  be  deemed  always  to have  been  inserted"  in	 thesection.Mr. Desai, learned counsel for the appellants, concedes thatthis  amendment	 which is retrospective in  operation  wouldgovern the rights of the parties in the present appeal,	 andthat  under the section as it now stands, the Custodian	 hasthe power-and had always the power-to cancel leases  creatednot merely by the evacuees but also by himself.	 But he con-tends  that  this  power could be exercised only  so  as  tooverride a bar imposed by any law but not the contract underwhich the lease is held, and this result flows according  tohim  from the language of the non-obstante clause, which  islimited to anything contained in any other law for the	timebeing  in  force",  and does not include  "or  any  contractbetween the parties".  This was a contention which was	opento  the appellants on the terms of the section as  it  stoodeven before the amendment, but it was not put forward at anystage prior to the bearing of this appeal and that by itselfwould  be  sufficient ground for declining to  entertain  itwhich  it  may	be noted is now sought to  be  raised  by  asupplemental  proceeding  under	 Order 16,  rule  4  of	 theSupreme	 Court Rules.  On the merits also it is without	 anysubstance.   The section expressly authorises the  custodianto  vary  the  terms  of  the  lease,  and  that  cannot  bereconciled  with  the contention of the appellants  that  itconfers	 no  authority	on  him to  go	back  upon  his	 owncontracts.   The  operative  portion of	 the  section  whichconfers power on982the  Custodian to cancel a lease or vary the  terms  thereofis  unqualified	 and  absolute, and  that  power  cannot  beabridged  by  reference to the provision that  it  could  beexercised  "notwithstanding anything contained in any  otherlaw  for  the  time  being in  force".	 This  provision  isobviously  intended  to	 repel a  possible  contention	thatsection	  12  does  not	 by  implication   repeal   statutesconferring rights on lessees, and cannot prevail as  againstthem and has been inserted ex abundanti cautela.  It  cannotbe  construed  as  cutting down the  plain  meaning  of	 theoperative portion of the section.  Vide the observations  inAswini	Kumar Ghosh v. Arabinda Bose(1) and the Dominion  ofIndia  v.  Shrinbai  A. Irani(1) on the	 scope.	 of  a	non-obstante   clause.   We	 must  accordingly  bold  that	 therespondent  was	 acting	 within his  authority	in  'issuingExhibit	 C  in so far as it concerned the lease	 granted  infavour of the appellants.It  was	 next  contended  by Mr.  Desai	 that  even  if	 theCustodian had the power under section 12 to cancel the leasein  favour  of the appellants, be bad no  power	 under	thatsection	 to cancel the agreement to sell the mills  and	 thefactory	 to them, which was one of the matters contained  inExhibit	 A, that the notice, Exhibit C, was to	that  extentwithout	 juris,diction,	 and  that  the	 respondent   shouldaccordingly  be prohibited from cancelling that	 portion  ofExhibit A in pursuance of Exhibit C. But the notice in termsrefers firstly to the lease which it is proposed to  cancel,and  secondly  to the movables in respect of  which  certaindirections were given.	In their petition under article 226,it  was	 the  validity	of  the	 notice.,  Exhibit  C,	withreference   to	these  two  matters  that   the	  appellantschallenged.  Tendolkar, J. stated in his judgment-and  quitecorrectly-that	these  were the two points  that  &rose	 fordetermination.	  The  question	 of  -the  rights   of	 theappellants in so far as they related to the purchase by themof the mills and the factory was not raised in the petition,and  no contentions were put forward in support	 thereof  atany  stage of the proceedings.	It is for the first time  inthe argu-(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1, 21, 24.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 206, 213.983ment before us that those rights are sought to be  agitated.Under  the circumstances, we must decline to consider  them.It  will be sufficient if we observe that the rights of	 theappellants,  if	 any, other than those arising	out  of	 thelease, are left open to the determination of the appropriateauthorities,  and  that nothing in our	decision  should  betaken as a pronouncement on those rights.In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.