PETITIONER:PURANMALL AGARWALLA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ORISSADATE OF JUDGMENT:19/08/1958BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1958 AIR  935		  1959 SCR 1162ACT:       Double Punishment-Person convicted of transporting opium	 If       can  be	convicted  of being in possession  of  opium  also-       Sentence-opium Act (1 of 1878) ss. 4 and 9-Code of  Criminal       Procedure,  (V  of  1890) s. 33-Indian Penal  Code  (XLV	 of       1860), s. 71.HEADNOTE:The  appellant was caught while he was himself	transportingopium.	He was convicted under s. 9(a) of the Opium Act	 forposession  "  of opium and under s. 9(b) of the	 Act  for  "transport  of  opium and was sentenced to  undergo  rigorousimprisonment   for  three  months  under  each	count,	 thesentences  to  run consecutively.  The	appellant  contendedthat " transport " included " possession " and so the doublepunishment for possession and transport was not warranted bylaw :Held,  that possession of opium and transport of  opium	 aretwo  separate offences and the appellant could be  convictedfor1163both  the  offences.   Transport of opium  may,	 in  certaincases,	include	 the  element of possession,  and  in  othercases,	it  may not.  A person	transporting  opium  throughother agencies may not be in possession of it at the time itwas  transported.  But a person transporting  opium  himselfwould  be  in possession of it and would be guilty  of	bothoffences.The  sentence passed upon the appellant did  not  contravenethe  provisions of S. 71 of the Indian Penal Code.   Section71 provides that where anything is an offence falling withintwo  or more separate definitions of the law,  the  offendershall  not  be punished with a more severe  punishment	thanthat provided for any one of such offences.  Though separatesentences     were    passed	against	   the	   appellantunders .9(a)and(b),the sum total of these sentences did	 notexceed one year's imprisonment the maximum provided for	 anyof these offences.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 69  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember  18, 1955, of the Orissa Hioh Court at Cuttack,  inCriminal Revision No. 20 of 1955 arising out of the Judgmentand  order  dated  December 23, 1954, of the  Court  of	 theSessions Judge at Sambalpur in Criminal Appeal No. 111(S) of1954.Tara Chand Mathur and K. L. Arora, for the appellant.N.S.  Bindra  and  R. H. Dhebar for  the  respondent. 1958.	August 19.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyIMAM  J.-This  appeal  by special leave is  limited  to	 thequestion' whether transport includes possession, and so	 thedouble	punishment  for	 possession  and  transport  is	 notwarranted by law's stated in ground (xi) of the petition forspecial leave.On  the	 facts	found  there can be  no	 question  that	 theappellant went in a rickshaw from the Sambalpur Road RailwayStation to the State Transport Bus Stand with a trunk and  abedding	 in order to proceed to a place called Bargarh.	  Hebought	a  ticket for Bargarh and took his seat in  the	 busafter  loading	his  trunk and bedding on  top	of  it.	  Oninformation  received  by  the	Officer-in-charge  of  SadarPolice Station of Sambalpur, the bus was detained near the1481164police	station,  while on its way, and all the	 trunks	 andbeddings on it were unloaded, and the passengers of the	 buswere  asked  to take their respective trunks  and  beddings.The  passengers took their trunks and beddings.	  One  trunkand  a	bedding,  however,  remained  on  the  ground.	 Theappellant claimed the bedding to be his own, but denied	 thetrunk  to be his property.  The bedding and the	 trunk	werebrought	 to the thana and the trunk was opened.	  The  trunkcontained  opium  weighing  six	 seers	and  six  and	halfchhataks.   On the facts found, the trunk was identified  asthat of the appellant, and there can be no question that  hewas  in	 possession  of the opium.  The	 only  question	 forconsideration,	having	regard to the  limited	ground	uponwhich  special leave was granted, is whether  the  appellantcould also be punished for being in possession of opium,  asit is suggested that transport' includes I possession'.The  appellant was sentenced under s. 9 (a) for	 possession'of  opium  and under s. 9(b) for 'transport' of	 opium,	 andsentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three  monthstinder each count, the sentences to run consecutively.Section	 4 of the Opium Act, 1878 (Act 1 of 1878)  reads  asfollows:"Except as permitted by this Act, or by any other  enactmentrelating  to opium for the time being in force, or by  rulesframed	under this Act or under any such enactment,  no	 oneshall-(a)  possess opium;(b)  transport opium;  ....................................................It  is clear from the provisions of s. 4 that no  one  shallpossess	  opium	 or  transport	opium,	except	 under	 thecircumstances mentioned in the section.	 Section 9  providesthat:" Any person who, in contravention of this Act, or of  rulesmade and notified under section 5 or section 8-(a)  possesses opium, or(b)  transports opium ........................................................1165shall,	on conviction before a Magistrate, be  punished	 foreach  such  offence with imprisonment for a term  which	 mayextend	to  one year, or with fine which may extend  to	 onethousand rupees, or with both."This  was the provision in s. 9 before its amendment by	 Act111  of	 1957  which provided that on  conviction  before  aMagistrate,  a	person	convicted of  any  of  the  offencesmentioned in s. 9 shall be punishable for each such  offencewith  imprisonment which may extend to three years, with  orwithout	 fine.	 We  are, however,  not	 concerned  in	thisparticular   case  with	 the  punishment  provided  by	 theamendment, as the offence was committed previous to it.	 Theprovisions of the Opium Act make it clear that possession ofopium  and transport of opium contrary to the provisions  ofthe  Act  or any other enactment relating to  opitum  or  torules framed under the Act, are two separate offences.	Merepossession  of	opium  may not, on the	proved	facts  of  aparticular  case, involve any question of  transporting	 it.Transport  of opium may, in certain  circumstances,  includethe element of possession, while in other cases, it may not.A  person may transport opium through various  agencies	 andyet  not  be in possession of it at the time it	 was  trans-ported.	 On the other hand, a person may transport opium andyet  be	 in possession of it.  In the latter  case,  such  aperson would be guilty both of transporting opium and  beingin  possession of it.  Under the Act, 'transport'  means  toremove from one place to another within the,-same State'.  Aperson	may  remove opium and be in possession of  it  whileremoving  it, and he can also remove, it from one  place  toanother	 within the same State in circumstances	 when  whileremoving  it  he  is not in possession of  the	opium.	 Theintention  of  the  Legislature appears to  have  been	thatneither	 possession of doium nor transporting of  opium	 waspermissible,  if  such	possession or  transporting  was  incontravention  of  the provisions of the Opium	Act  or	 anyother enactment relating to opium, or rules framed under theOpium	Act.   It  seems  therefore  that  where  a   persontransports  opium and is in possession of it at the time  hewas transporting it, he has committed1166two  offences, viz., (1) of transporting opium; and  (2)  ofpossessing  opium.  He can therefore be convicted  for	boththe offences.As to the sentence which can be imposed, reference to s.  35of  the Code of Criminal Procedure and s. 71 of	 the  IndianPenal Code is necessary.  Section 35 of the Code of CriminalProcedure  provides that where a person is convicted at	 onetrial of two or more offences, the Court may, subject to theprovisions of s. 71 of the Indian Penal Code, sentence	him,for  such  offences, to the several  punishments  prescribedtherefor  which	 such Court is competent to inflict  ;	suchpunishments, when consisting of imprisonment to commence theone  after the expiration of the other in such order as	 theCourt  may  direct,  unless  the  Court	 directs  that	suchpunishment  shall  run concurrently.  Section  35  thereforepermits	 the  passing of separate  sentences  for  differentoffences and for them to run consecutively unless the  Courtdirects that they shall run concurrently.  This, however, issubject to the provisions of s. 71 of the Indian Penal Code.Section 71 of the Indian Penal Code provides:"  Where anything which is an offence is made up  of  parts,any of which parts is itself an offence, the offender  shallnot be punished with the punishment of more than one of suchhis offences, unless it be so expressly provided.Where  anything	 is an offence falling within  two  or	moreseparate definitions of any law in force for the time  beingby which offences are defined or punished, orwhere  several acts, of which one or more than one would  byitself or themselves constitute an offence, constitute, whencombined, a different offence,the  offender  shall  not be punished  with  a	more  severepunishment  than the Court which tries him could  award	 forany one of such offences."It is clear from these provisions that where anything is  anoffence	 falling within two or more separate definitions  ofany  law in force for the time being by which  offences	 aredefined or punished, the offender shall not be punished witha more severe punishment than the1167Court  which  tries  him could award for  any  one  of	suchoffences.   The	 maximum  sentence  which  could  have	beenimposed	 upon the appellant for any one of the	offences  ofwhich he had been convicted was one year's imprisonment.  Inother words, even if separate sentences were passed under s.9,  sub-ss.  (a) and (b), the sum total of  these  sentencesshould	not exceed one year's imprisonment.  In the  presentcase,  the sentence imposed upon the appellant has  been  inall  6 months, 3 months' imprisonment under each count.	  Itwould  appear, therefore, that the sentence passed upon	 theappellant did not contravene the provisions of s. 71 of	 theIndian	Penal Code.  In our opinion, the  appellant  -,-%,asrightly	 convicted under s. 9 (a) and (b) of the Opium	Act,and  there  has been no illegality in the  sentence  imposedupon him.It was strongly urged on behalf of the appellant that  theremight be a reduction in the sentence.  Instead of a sentenceof   imprisonment  being  imposed,  the	 appellant  may	  besentenced  to a substantial fine.  In our opinion,  offencesagainst the Opium Act are serious ones, and we cannot accedeto  the request made.  A sentence of 6 months'	imprisonmentcannot be considered as unduly severe.The appeal is accordingly dismissed.