PETITIONER:P.   V. SIVARAJAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/12/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  556		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 779 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1970 SC 564	 (191) R	    1986 SC1541	 (10)ACT:       Coir  Industry,	Regulation and Control	of-Registration	 of       exporter	  and	licensee-Quantitative	test-Constitutional       validity-Coir  Industry Act, 1953 (45 of 1953), S.  26,	rr.       18,  19, 20(1)(a), 21, 22(a) -Constitution of  India,  Arts.       19, 14.HEADNOTE:The  petitioner, an unsuccessful applicant for	registrationas  an	exporter and licensee for exporting  coir  products,challenged  the	 vires of the rr. 18, 19, 20(1)(a),  21	 and22(a)  made  by the Central Government in  exercise  of	 itspowers under S. 26(1) of the Coir Industry Act, 1953 (45  Of1953).	 The  Act  had for its	object	the  regulation	 andcontrol	 of  the Coir industry in public interest.   It	 wascontended  on  his  behalf that the  impugned  rules,  whichprescribed  the quantitative, and not the qualitative,	testfor registration of established exporters, were inconsistentwith the provisions of the Act and as such, ultra vires	 theAct and that they tended to create a monopoly in the  exporttrade  of coir commodities and thereby destroy the  businessof small dealers and discriminated between those who carriedon large scale business and those who carried on small scalebusiness   and	thus  impugned	Arts.  19  and	14  Of	 theConstitution.Held,  that the contentions were without substance and	mustbe negatived.There was no provision in the Coir Industry Act, 1953,	thatexcluded  or prohibited the application of the	quantitativetest and the rules were in no way inconsistent with the	 Actnor  in	 excess	 of  the powers	 conferred  on	the  CentralGovernment by s. 26 of the Act.Where  an  Act	sought	to control  an	industry  in  publicinterest it would obviously be for the rule making authorityto  decide  which  rules  and  regulations  would  meet	 therequirement of public interest.	 Such rules and regulations,though	reasonable within the meaning of Art.  19(6),  mightcause hardship to those who failed to comply with them.	 Butonce it was conceded that the regulation and control of	 thetrade were justified in public interest, Art. 19(1)(g) couldnot be invoked to challenge the validity of the rules.Nor did the impugned rules violate Art. 14 Of the  Constitu-tion.  The classification of traders under rr. 18 and 19 wasclearly	 founded on an intelligible differentia that  had  arational  relation to the object of the Act.  The  exemptionmade  by the rules in favour of co-operative societies	fromsome  of the relevant tests indicated that  the	 Legislatureintended to encourage small780traders.   It  was not, therefore, correct to say  that	 therules would lead to a monopoly in the trade.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 121 of 1958.Petition   under   Article  32	of  the	  Constitution	 forenforcement of Fundamental rights.G.   B. Pai and Sardar Bahadur, for the petitioner.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and  T.M. Sen, for the respondents.1958.  December 11.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-The petitioner has been doing business asan  exporter of coir products to foreign countries  for	 thelast  twenty  years.   On  July	 4,  1958,  he	applied	  torespondent   2,	  the  Chairman,  Coir	 Board,	  Ernakulam,requesting  that he should be registered as  an	 establishedexporter.  This application was accompanied by an income-taxclearance  certificate	and  attested  copies  of  bills  oflading.	 Respondent 2 declined to register the petitioner onthe  ground that his application was defective	inasmuch  asthe requisite certificate regarding his financial status badnot  been  produced and no evidence had been given  to	showthat  he  had exported the minimum  quantity  required	(500Cwts.). The petitioner was told that unless he complied withthe requirements asked for within seven days his applicationwould  be rejected without further notice.   The  petitionerfound that he could not comply with the directions issued byrespondent 2 and so it became impossible for the  petitionerto get registration and licence applied for by him.  That iswhy  he	 filed	the present petition under Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution and prayed for the issue of a writ or order  inthe  nature of mandamus to direct the second  respondent  togrant the petitioner registration and licence as applied forby him and to prohibit or restrain the said respondent	fromacting on, or implementing, the rules issued under the	CoirIndustry  Act,	1953,  by issue of  a  writ  of	 certiorari,prohibition  or	 such  other writ or  order  appropriate  toprotect	 his rights.  The petitioner also prayed that  "  iffound necessary " the said		       781rules should be declared to be ultra vires the powers of theCentral	 Government  and invalid being in violation  of	 thefundamental  rights  guaranteed by Arts. 14 and	 19  of	 theConstitution.	The  Union of India has, been  impleaded  asrespondent 1 to the petition.Before	dealing	 with the points raised by the	petition  itwould  be necessary to refer briefly to the  provisions(  ofthe Coir Industry Act, 1953 (45 of 1953), hereinafter calledthe  Act, and the rules framed under it in 1958.   This	 Actwas  enacted  by  the  Parliament  because  it	was  thoughtexpedient in the public interest that the Union should	takeunder its control the coir industry (s. 2). Section 4 of theAct  provides for the establishment and constitution of	 theCoir  Board and s. 10 enumerates its functions	and  duties.Under s. 10(1) it shall be the duty of the Board to  promoteby such measures as it thinks fit the development under	 thecontrol	 of  the Central Government of	the  coir  industry.Sub-section (2) enumerates the measures which the Board	 maytake with the object of developing the coir industry withoutprejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-s. (1).Amongst the measures thus enumerated, sub-s. (2) (b)  refersto  the	 regulation  under the supervision  of	the  CentralGovernment  of the production of husks, coir yarn  and	coirproducts   by  registering  coir  spindles  and	 looms	 formanufacturing  coir products, as also manufacturers of	coirproducts, licensing exporters of coir yarn and coir productsand   taking  such  other  appropriate	steps  as   may	  beprescribed.   Sub-section (2)(g) refers to the promotion  ofco-operative  Organisation  among producers of	husks,	coirfibre and coir yarn and manufacturers of coir products,	 andsub-s. (2)(1) refers to the licensing of retting places	 andwarehouses and otherwise regulating the stocking and sale ofcoir  fibre, coir yarn and coir products both  for  internalmarket	and  for  exports.  Section  26(1)  confers  on	 theCentral Government power to make rules for carrying out	 thepurposes  of  the Act subject to the condition	of  previouspublication.  Sub-section (2) enumerates the matters in res-pect  of which rules may be made, in particular and  withoutprejudice to the generality of the power782conferred by sub-s. (1).  Sub- section (2) (k) refers  interalia  to the registration of manufacturers of coir  productsand the conditions for such registration and the ,,grant  orissue  of  licences under the Act; and sub-s.  (2)(1)  dealswith the form of applications for registration and  licencesunder the Act and the fee, if any, to be paid in respect  ofany such applications.Under  the powers conferred by s. 26 the Central  Governmentframed	rules  in  1958.  For the purposes  of	the  presentpetition  it  would be relevant to refer to rr.	 17  to	 22.Rule  17 deals with registration and licensing	of  exports;and it provides that no person shall, after the coming	intoforce  of  the rule, export coir fibre, coir  yarn  or	coirproducts  unless he has been registered as an  exporter	 andhas  obtained  an  export licence under	 these	rules.	 Theproviso	 deals	with  exemptions  with	which  we  are	 notconcerned.  Rule 18 lays down that any person who has in anyof the three years immediately preceding the commencement ofthe  rules exported not less than twenty-five tons  of	coiryarn or coir products other than coir rope, or exported	 anyquantity  of coir fibre or coir rope, may be  registered  anexporter of coir yarn, coir products other than coir rope orcoir  fibre  or	 coir  rope as the case	 may  be.   Rule  19provides  for the registration of persons other	 than  thosecovered	 by  r.	 18 and it lays down inter  alia  that	suchpersons	 may  be registered as exporters of  coir  yarn	 if,during the period of twelve months immediately preceding thedate of application, a minimum quantity of twenty-five	tonsof  coir yarn had been rehanked or baled in a factory  ownedor otherwise possessed by the applicant and registered underthe Indian Factories Act, 1948, or, if the applicant has hada total purchase turnover of one hundred tons of coir  yarn.The  proviso  to  this	rule  authorises  the  Chairman	  bynotification  to exempt from the operation of this rule	 anyco-operative  society  the members of which  are  owners  ofindustrial   establishments  or	 any  Central	Co-operativeMarketing  Society.  Rules 20 and 22 prescribe the  mode  ofmaking	an application for registration as an  exporter	 andfor licence respectively while r. 21 provides for the783cancellation of registration.  The present petition does notchallenge the validity of any of the provisions of the	Act.It,  however,  seeks to challenge the vires of rr.  18,	 19,20(1)(a), 21 and 22(a).There  is  no  doubt that coir and  coir  products  play  animportant   role   in  our  national  economy.	  They	 arecommodities which earn foreign exchange, the total' value ofour  exports  in  these commodities being of  the  order  ofRupees	Ten  Crores  per year.	It was	found  that  severalmalpractices  had  crept  in  the  export  trade  of   thesecommodities  such as non-fulfilment of contracts,  supplyinggoods of inferior qualities and cut-throat competition;	 andthese  in  turn	 considerably -affected the  volume  of	 thetrade.	That is why Parliament thought it necessary that theUnion  should  take under its control the coir	industry  inorder  to regulate its export trade.  It is with the  objectof developing the coir industry that the Coir Board has beenestablished and the registration and licensing of  exportershas  been introduced.  The petitioner does not dispute	thisposition  and  makes no grievance or complaint	against	 therelevant provisions in the Act.It  is,	 however,  urged  that	the  relevant  rules   whichprescribe  the	quantitative test for  the  registration  ofestablished   exporters	  are  ultra   vires   because	 theintroduction  of  the  said test is  inconsistent  with	 theprovisions of the Act.	In this connection Mr. Pai, for	 thepetitioner,  sought to rely on the report submitted  by	 theAd-Hoc Committee for external marketing which the Coir Boardhad appointed on August 20, 1954.  His grievance is that thereport of the said Committee does not recommend the adoptionof  the	 quantitative  test, but seems	to  suggest  that  aqualitative  test  would  be more appropriate  ;  and  that,according  to Mr. Pai, also indicates that the	quantitativetest  had been improperly prescribed by the rules.   We	 arenot impressed by these arguments.  It is clear that there isno  provision  in the Act which excludes  or  prohibits	 theapplication  of	 the quantitative test in making  rules	 forregistration of exporters or for issuing licences for exporttrade.	 In  fact the Act has deliberately left	 it  to	 therule-making authority to frame rules784which it may regard as appropriate for regulating the trade;and  so it would be impossible to accept the  argument	thatthe  rule-making  authority  was  bound	 to  prescribe	 thequalitative rather than the quantitative test.	Besides,  itdoes  not appear that the report of the Committee  on  whichMr.  pai relied definitely indicated its partiality for	 theadoption  of the qualitative test.  Indeed Appx.  XI to	 thesaid report would suggest that the Committee in fact was notaverse	to the adoption of a quantitative test; but even  ifthe  Committee had expressly recommended the adoption  of  aqualitative, not a quantitative, :test, it would be idle  tosuggest	 that  the Coir Board was bound to accept  the	saidrecommendation	or  that  the  Central	Government  was	 notcompetent  to make rules contrary to the recommendations  ofthe   Committee.    The	 validity  of  the  rules   can	  besuccessfully  challenged  if  it  is  shown  that  they	 areinconsistent  with  the provisions of the Act or  that	theyhave  been  made in excess of the powers  conferred  on	 therule-making authority by s. 26 of the Act.  In our  opinion,no  such  infirmity has been established in respect  of	 theimpugned rules.It   is	 then  contended  that	the  relevant  rules   wouldultimately tend to establish a monopoly in the export  tradeof  coir commodities and would thereby extinguish the  tradeor  business  of small dealers like the petitioner.   It  isalso contended that the application of the quantitative-testdiscriminates  between	persons carrying on  business  on  alarge  scale  and  those who carry on business	on  a  smallscale.	That is how Arts. 19 and 14 of the Constitution	 areinvoked and the validity of the relevant rules is challengedon  the ground that they violate the fundamental  rights  ofthe  petitioner under the said Articles.  We think there  isno substance in this contention.If  it is conceded that the regulation of the coir  industryis  in	the public interest, then it would be  difficult  toentertain  the argument that the regulation or control	mustbe  introduced only on the basis of a qualitative test.	  Itmay   well  be	that  there  are  several  difficulties	  inintroducing and effectively enforcing the qualitative  test.It is well-known that granting		   785permits or licences to export or import dealers on the basisof  a quantitative test is not unknown in regard  to  exportand import of essential commodities.  It would obviously  befor  the  rule-making authority to decide which	 test  wouldmeet  the  requirements of public interest and	what  methodwould be most expedient in controlling the industry for	 thenational'   good.    Beside,%,	even  the  adoption   of   aqualitative  test may tend to extinguish the trade of  thosewho  do not satisfy the said test; but such a result  cannotobviously be treated as contravening the fundamental  rightsunder Art. 19.	Control and regulation of any trade,  thoughreasonable within the meaning of Art. 19, sub-Art. (6),	 mayin  some cases lead to hardship to some persons carrying  onthe said trade or business if they are unable to satisfy therequirements  of the regulatory rules or provisions  validlyintroduced ; but once it is conceded that regulation of	 thetrade and its control are justified in the public  interest,it  would not be open to a person who fails to	satisfy	 therules  or regulations to invoke his fundamental right  underArt.  19(1)(g) and challenge the validity of the  regulationor  rule  in  question.	  In  our  opinion,  therefore,	 thechallenge to the validity of the rules on the ground of Art.19 must fail.The  challenge	to  the validity of the said  rules  on	 theground of Art. 14 must also fail, because the classificationof traders made by rr. 18 and 19 is clearly rational and  isfounded	  on  an  intelligible	differentia   distinguishingpersons falling under one class from those falling under theother.	It is also clear that the differentia has a rationalrelation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.  Aswe  have already pointed out, the export trade in coir	com-modities disclosed the existence of many malpractices  whichnot  only  affected  the  volume  of  trade  but  also	 thereputation  of Indian traders; and one of the  main  reasonswhich  led  to this unfortunate result	was  that  exporterssometimes accepted orders far beyond their capacity and thatinevitably  led to non-fulfilment of contracts or to  supplyof inferior commodities.  In99786order to remedy this position the trade had to be  regulatedand  so the intending exporter was required to	satisfy	 thetest  of the prescribed minimum capacity  and  to  establishthe  prescribed	 minimum status before his  application	 forregistration is granted.  In this connection it may also  berelevant  to point out that -the rules seem  to	 contemplatethe granting of exemption from the operation of some of	 therelevant  tests	 to co-operative societies; and	 that  showsthat the intention of the Legislature is to encourage  smalltraders	 to form co-operative societies and carry on  exporttrade  on behalf of such societies; and so it would  not  bepossible  to  accept the argument that	the  impugned  ruleswould  lead  to a monopoly in the trade.  It is	 thus  clearthat  the main object which the rules propose to achieve  isto  remove the anomalies and malpractices prevailing in	 theexport	trade of coir commodities and to put the said  tradeon  a  firm and enduring basis in the interest	of  nationaleconomy.  We are, therefore, satisfied that the challenge tothe impugned rules on the ground of infringement of Art.  14of the Constitution must also fail.In  the	 result we hold that there is no  substance  in	 thepetition.  It accordingly fails and is dismissed with costs.				Petition dismissed.787