PETITIONER:NARENDRA KUMAR AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:03/12/1959BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  430		  1960 SCR  (2) 375 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC1080	 (32) F	    1961 SC1471	 (7,9) R	    1962 SC 386	 (23,25) RF	    1970 SC  93	 (9) R	    1974 SC 366	 (60) R	    1978 SC 597	 (82) F	    1978 SC 771	 (18) RF	    1978 SC1296	 (67) R	    1979 SC  25	 (20) R	    1979 SC 314	 (11) RF	    1979 SC 916	 (47) D	    1979 SC1149	 (30) RF	    1981 SC 873	 (18) RF	    1985 SC 660	 (15,16) F	    1987 SC1802	 (9) R	    1988 SC 526	 (9,12) RF	    1992 SC1033	 (68) R	    1992 SC1519	 (6)ACT:Fundamental Rights-Restrictions on such	 rights-Restriction,if  includes  Prohibition-Provision  of	 law  placing  totalrestraint   on	 the   exercise	  of   fundamental   rights-Constitutionality-Trade in imported copper-Law Providing forfixation  of  Price  and  issue	 of  permits,  resulting  inelimination  of dealers from such trade-Validity  -EssentialCommodities  Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), s. 3-Non-ferrous  MetalControl Order, 1958, cls. 3, 4-Constitution of India,  Arts.14, 19(1)(f), 19(1)(g), 19(5), 19(6).HEADNOTE:On  different dates prior to April 3, 1958, the	 petitionersentered into contracts of purchase of copper with 'importersat Bombay and Calcutta, but before they could take  deliveryfrom  the importers the Government of India, in exercise  ofits  powers  under s. 3 of the	Essential  Commodities	Act,1955, issued on April 2, 1958, the Non-ferrous Metal ControlOrder, 1958.  Clause 3 of the Order provided that no  personshall  sell  or purchase any non-ferrous metal	at  a  pricewhich exceeded the amount represented by an addition of 321%to  its	 landed	 cost, while under cl.	4  no  person  shallacquire any non-ferrous metal except under and in accordancewith  a	 permit issued in this behalf by the  Controller  inaccordance  with such principles as the	 Central  Governmentmay from time to time specify.	No such principles, however,were published in the Gazette or laid before the two  Housesof Parliament, though certain principles governing the issueof   permits   by  the	Controller  were  specified   in   acommunication  addressed  by  the Deputy  Secretary  to	 theGovernment  of	India  dated April 18, 1958,  to  the  ChiefIndustrial Adviser, by virtue of which the Controller  couldissue  permits only to certain manufactures and not  to	 anydealer.	  On  April 14, 1958, the  petitioners	applied	 forpermits	 to  enable them to take delivery of the  copper  inrespect	 of which they had entered into contracts,  but	 theapplications were refused.  Thereupon, the petitioners fileda  petition  under  Art. 32 of	the  Constitution  of  Indiachallenging the validity of the order refusing the grant  ofthe permit and contended, inter alia, (1) that the  fixationof  the price under cl. 3 of the Non-ferrous  Metal  ControlOrder, 1958, which had the effect of driving the dealer	 outof  business in imported copper and likewise, cl. 4  of	 thesaid Order read with the communication dated April 18, 1958,which  had the effect of completely eliminating the  dealersfrom  the  trade  in  imported	copper,	 contravened   Arts.19(1)(f)  and  19(1)(g) of the Constitution, and  that	suchtotal  elimination  of the dealer amounting as	it  will  toprohibition  of any exercise of the right to carry on  tradeor to acquire property   376was not a mere restriction on the rights and was outside thesaving provision of cls. (5) and (6) of Art 19, (2) that theprinciples  specified in the communication dated  April	 18,1958,	being  discriminatory  in  nature  as  between	 themanufacturers and   dealers  in copper, infringed  Art.	 14,(3)  that  the said principles,	 in any case,  had  no legalforce,	as they were not mentioned in the Non-ferrous  MetalControl	 Order,	 nor  were they	 notified  in  the  OfficialGazette	 and  laid before both Houses of Parliament  in	 themanner	laid  down  in sub-ss. (5) and (6) of s.  3  of	 theEssential Commodities Act.  It was found that the result  ofthe  abuse by the importers of the practical monopoly  givento  them  of  the  copper  market  seriously  affected	 theinterests  of  the  general public in  India,  and  that  toprotect	  these	 interests  of	the  public   the   impugnedlegislation  in the form of Non-ferrous Metal Control  Orderand the subsequent specification of principles was made.Held:(1)  that the word " restriction	      in  Arts.19(5)  and  19(6)  of the  Constitution	 includes  cases  ofprohibition  "	also; that where a restriction	reaches	 thestage  of total restraint of rights special care has  to  betaken by the Court to see that the test of reasonableness issatisfied  by considering the question in the background  ofthe facts and circumstances under which the order was  made,taking	into account the nature of the evil that was  soughtto be remedied; by such law, the ratio of the harm caused toindividual  citizens by the proposed remedy, the  beneficialeffect reasonably expected to result to the general  public,and  whether the restraint caused by the law was  more	thanwas necessary in the interests of the general public.Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1950]  S.C.R.759, Cooverjee B. Bharucha v The Excise Commissioner and TheChief Commissioner, Ajmer and Others, [1954] S.C.R. 873	 andMadhya	Bharat	Cotton Association Ltd. v. Union  of  India,A.I.R. 1954 S.C. 634, followed.(2)that	 in  the  present  case, the  evil  sought  to	beremedied  being the rise in price which led to higher  priceof consumers' goods in the production of which copper formeda major ingredient, the fixation of a price and a system  ofpermits for the acquisition of the material were  reasonablerestrictions  in the interests of the general public  ;	 andthat  cls.  3 and 4 of the Nonferrous Metal  Control  Order,1958,  were accordingly, reasonable restrictions within	 themeaning of Arts. 19(5) and 19(6)(3)that	 the differentia which distinguished dealers as	 aclass  from  manufacturers placed in the other class  had  areasonable  connection with the object of  the	legislation,and,   consequently,   the  principles	specified   in	 thecommunication dated April 18, 1958, did not contravene	Art.14 of the Constitution ; and(4)that	 the cl. 4 of the Non-ferrous Metal Control  Orderwas not effective without the principles to be specified  bythe  Central Government in the manner laid down	 by  sub-ss.(5) and (6) of		     377S.   3	 of  the  Essential  Commodities  Act  and  as	 theprinciples  specified in the Communication dated  April	 18,1958, were not notified in the Gazette nor laid before	bothHouses of Parliament, as required under by S. 3, sub-ss. (5)and  (6),  of  the  Act,  cl.  4  could	 not  be   enforced.Accordingly, cl. 4 of the Order, as it stood, was void	tillsuch  time  as the principles are published  in	  accordancewith S. 3, sub-ss. (5) and (6).JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION :Petition No. 85 of 1958.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.C.   B. Agarwala, R. Gopalakrishnan and K. P. Gupta, for thepetitioners.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor--General of India, B.   Senand R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents.1959.	December 3. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyDAS  GUPTAJ.-The three persons who have filed this  petitionunder  Art. 32 of the Constitution for enforcement of  theirfundamental  rights conferred by Art. 14, Art. 19(1)(f)	 andArt.  19(1)(g)	thereof are dealers in imported	 copper	 andcarry on their business at Jagadhri in the State of  Punjab.On different dates prior to April 3, 1958, they entered intocontracts of purchase of copper with importers at Bombay andCalcutta.   Before, however, they could take  delivery	fromthe  importers	the Government of India issued on  April  2,1958, an order called the " Non-ferrous Metal Control Order,1958 " hereafter referred to as " the order " in exercise ofits powers under s. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act	(ActX  of  1955)-referred to hereafter as " the Act ".  In	thisorder  " non-ferrous metal " was defined to mean "  importedcopper, lead, tin and zinc in any of the forms specified  inthe  Schedule  of the order." The Order was  from  the	verybeginning made applicable to imported copper.  The price wascontrolled by cl. 3 of the Order which provides in its firstsub-clause that " no person shall sell or offer to sell	 anynon-ferrous  metal  at	a price	 which	exceeds	 the  amountrepresented  by an addition of 3 1/2% to its  landed  cost,"and in its second sub-clause that " no person shall purchaseor offer to378purchase from any person non-ferrous metal at a price higherthan   at   which   it	is  permissible	  for	that   otherperson	to  sell  to him under sub-cl.	(i)."  Clause  4  isdesigned   to  regulate	 the  acquisition   of	 non-ferrousmetal  by  permit   only  and  provides	 that  "  no  personshall  acquire	or agree to -acquire any  non-ferrous  metalexcept under and in accordance with a permit issued in	thisbehalf by the Controller in accordance with such  principlesas  the Central Government may from time to time specify  ".Clauses	 5  and	 6 of the Order made it	 obligatory  on	 theimporters to notify quantities of non-ferrous metal importedand  to	 maintain certain books of account, while  the	lastclause,	 i.e..	cl. 7 confers powers on	 the  Controller  toenter  and search any premises in order to inspect any	bookor  document and to seize any non-ferrous metal	 in  certaincircumstances.	 This Order was published in the Gazette  ofIndia  on  April 2, 1958.  No principles  specified  by	 theCentral	 Government  in accordance with cl. 4 of  the  Orderwere  however  published either on this date  or  any  otherdate.	Certain	 principles were however  specified  by	 theCentral	 Government  in	 a communication  addressed  by	 theDeputy Secretary to the Government of India dated April	 18,1958,  to the Chief Industrial Adviser to the Government  ofIndia,	New  Delhi.   The  relevant  portion  of  this	com-munication is in these words:" The following principles shall govern the issue of permitsby the Controller :-(1) In respect of the scheduled industries under the Controlof the Development Wing, the Controller will determine the 6monthly	  requirements	of  actual  users  based  on   theirproduction in the year 1956;(2)  In	 the  case  of	small  scale  industries  the  ChiefController of Imports and Exports on the certificate of	 theState Directors of Industries will inform the Controller  ofthe  quantities	 that  the units would be  entitled  to	 andthereupon the Controller will make such quantities availableto these units from time to time;(3)  Tile  Controller  shall normally  release	one  month'srequirements at a time to the consuming units			    379and  the permit shall be valid for a period of	two  months;but if heavy imports are reported the Controller shall	havethe discretion to issue stocks in larger quantities."The position immediately on the issue of the Order  on April2, 1958, thus was that no person could buy or sell  importedcopper	at a price above the landed Cost plus 31/2%  thereofand  that no person could acquire or agree to  acquire	suchcopper	except under a permit issued by the Controller.	  Inissuing	 such permits the Controller was to be	governed  bysuch  principles  as the Central Government  would  specify.After  the  principles were specified in the letter  of	 the18th  of  April, the Controller could no  longer  issue	 anypermit to a dealer and could issue permits only to  certain.manufacturers as indicated in paras.  1 and 2 of the letter.In  view  of  the  requirement of cl. 4	 of  the  Order	 thepetitioners applied on April 14, 1958, for permits to enablethem to take delivery of the copper in respect of which theyhad  entered into contracts with different parties.   Thoughno  formal  order  appears  to have  been  passed  on  theseapplications,  it is not disputed that the applications	 forpermits	 were  refused and no permits were issued  to  thesepetitioners.  The main contention of the petitioners is two-fold.	First, it is said that cl. 4 of the Order read	withthe  principles	 specified in the letter of the	 18th  Aprilviolates the right conferred on them as citizens of India byArt.  19(1)(f) of the Constitution of India to acquire	pro-perty  and also the right conferred by Article	19(1)(g)  tocarry  on  trade, that these violations are not	 within	 thesaving	 provisions   of  Art.	19(5)  and  19(6)   of	 theConstitution  and therefore are void.  Secondly, it is	saidthat the fixation of the price at the landed cost plus 31  %as the maximum also abridge the rights conferred on them  byArts.  19(1)(f)	 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution  and	thatthis also is not saved by the provisions in Arts. 19(5)	 and19(6)  and  so are void.  A further contention is  that	 theprinciples  specified  being  discriminatory  in  nature  asbetween	 the  manufacturers  and  dealers  in  copper	haveresulted in violating the right to equal protection of	lawsto the380petitioners and thus infringe the right guranteed by Art. 14of the Constitution.  As regards the principles specified inthe letter of the 18th April it wag further  contended	thatas  they  form an integral part of the " Order	"  by  whichalone  the Central Government can regulate the	distributionand supply of essential commodities under s. 3 of the Act itwas  necessary	for  them to be	 notified  in  the  OfficialGazette	 as required by its 5th sub-section and to  be	laidbefore both Houses of Parliament as required by its 6th sub-section	 and as these requirements were not  fulfilled,	 theprinciples  have  no  legal force.   Alternatively,  it	 wascontended that if the principles are considered not to	formpart  of  the  order  made by  the  Central  Government	 theregulation  in	so far as it was by  these  principles,	 wasoutside the Act as s. 3 empowers the Central, Government  toprovide	 for  regulating or prohibiting the  production	 andsupply	of essential commodities and trade and	commerce  inessential commodities by an order only and not otherwise.The  petitioners  pray for an appropriate writ or  order  ordirection  (1)	restraining the respondents,  the  Union  ofIndia,	the  Chief Industrial Adviser to the  Government  ofIndia and the Development Officer, Ministry of Industry fromenforcing  cls.	 3 and 4 of the order; (2) to  quashing	 theorder of the Development Officer rejecting the	petitioners'application  for grant of permit by a direction to  the	 2ndand  3rd respondents to grant the applications	for  permitsand  (3)  restraining them from granting permits  to  othersthan  the petitioners in respect of copper covered by  theircontracts with importers.The  application was opposed by the respondents, their	maincontention  being that cls. 3 and 4 of the Order and  the  "principles  "  specified are laws -which  impose  reasonablerestrictions  on the exercise of rights conferred  by  Arts.19(1)(f) and 19(1)(g) in the interest of the general public.While	this   was  the	 main  contention   on	 behalf	  ofthe   respondents,  it	was  also  contended  that  as	 thepetitioners   have  not	 challenged  the  validity  of	 theEssential Commodities Act and have admitted the			    381power of the Central Government to make an order in exerciseof the powers conferred by s. 3 of the Act it is not open tothe Court to consider whether the law made by the Governmentin  making  the	 nonferrous  metal  control  order  and	  inspecifying the principles under cl. 4 of the order  violatesany of the fundamental rights under the Constitution.  It isurged  that once it is found that the Government  has  powerunder  a valid law to provide for regulating or	 prohibitingthe  production,  supply and distribution  of  an  essentialcommodity and trade and commerce therein as soon as it is ofopinion	 that  it  is necessary or expedient so	 to  do	 formaintaining   or  increasing  supplies	of   the   essentialcommodity  or  for securing its equitable  distribution	 andavailability  at fair prices, the order made by them can  beattacked  only	if it is outside the power  granted  by	 thesection	 or  if it is mala fide.  Malafides  have  not	beensuggested  and we are proceeding on the assumption that	 theCentral	 Government  was  honestly of opinion  that  it	 wasnecessary  and	expedient  to make an  order  providing	 forregulation and prohibition of the supply and distribution ofimported copper and trade and commerce therein.	 So long  asthe Order does not go beyond such provisions, the Order,  itis  urged, must be held to be good and the consideration  ofany question of infringement of fundamental rights under theConstitution   is   wholly  beside  the	 point.	   Such	  anextravagant  argument has merely to be mentioned to  deserverejection.   If there was any reason to think that s.  3  ofthe  Act  confers  on the Central  Government  power  to  doanything which is in conflict with the Constitutionary thingwhich  violates any of the fundamental rights conferred	 by-the  Constitution, that fact alone would be  sufficient	 andunassailable  ground for holding that the section itself  isvoid  being ultra vires the Constitution.  When, as in	thiscase,  no  challenge is made that s. 3 of the Act  is  ultravires  the  Constitution, it is on the assumption  that	 thepowers	granted thereby do not violate the Constitution	 anddo  not empower the Central Government to do anything  whichthe  Constitution  prohibits.	It is  fair  and  proper  topresume that49382in  passing this Act the Parliament could not possibly	haveintended the words used by it, viz., " may by order  providefor  regulating	 or prohibiting the production,	 supply	 anddistribution thereof, and trade and commerce in," to includea  power to make such provisions even though they may be  incontravention of the Constitution.  The fact that the  words" in accordance with the provisions of the articles  ofthe  Constitution"  are	 not used in the section  is  of  noconsequence.   Such  words  have to  be	 read  by  necessaryimplication  in	 every provision and every law made  by	 theParliament  on	any  day after the  Constitution  came	intoforce.	 It is clear therefore that when s. 3 confers  powerto provide for regulation or prohibition of the	 production,supply and distribution of any essential commodity it  givessuch  power to make any regulation or prohibition in so	 faras  such  regulation  and prohibition  do  not	violate	 anyfundamental rights granted by the Constitution of India.It  is therefore necessary for us to consider,	even  thoughmala  fides on the part of the Government are  not  alleged,whether	 the  law made by the Central Government by  way  ofsubordinate legislation, is a law, which though abridging ortaking	away the rights conferred by Art. 19(1)(f) and	(g),is within the saving provisions of 19(5) and 19(6).  On	 theface  of  it  cl. 4 of the Order read  with  the  principlesspecified in the letter of the 18th April has the effect  ofcompletely  eliminating	 the  dealers  from  the  trade	  inimported   copper.   It	 is  also  reasonably	clear	thatindependently  of  Cl.	4  read	 with  the  principles,	 thefixation of the price at which the copper can be bought	 andsold  at  3  1/2% above the landed cost has  the  effect  ofdriving the dealer out of business in imported copper.	 Thestatement made on behalf of the Union of India in  paragraph11  of the counter affidavit that an addition of 3  1/2%  ofthe  landed cost was made in fixing the price in para. 3  ofthe Order in order to enable the importers to earn a  marginof  profit  justifies the conclusion that this will  be	 theminimum price at which the importers will sell.	 Any  dealerwould  have  thus to pay at the rate of landed cost  plus  31/2% thereof in getting anY			    383supply of copper from the importers.  Such dealer is howeverprevented from charging from his customer anything more thanthe landed cost plus 3 1/2% thereof.  The position thereforeclearly	 is  that  henceforth any  aCtual  consumer  of	 thecommodity would have to get it	direct from the importer andthe  channel  of  distribution	through	 the  dealer   woulddisappear.In  deciding whether this total elimination of	dealer	fromtrade' in imported copper is within the saving provisions ofArt.  19(5)  and Art. 19(6) we have first  to  coNsider	 thequestion   whether   such  total  elimination  is   a	mererestriction on the rights under Arts. 19(1)(f) and  19(1)(g)or goes beyond " restriction."On  behalf  of the petitioners it has been  urged  that	 theprohibition of the exercise of a right must be distinguishedfrom  restriction on the exercise of a right, and  when	 theConstitution speaks of laws imposing reasonable restrictionson  the	 exercise  of rights it does  not  save	 laws  whichprohibit  the exercise of any such right.  It is urged	thatthe total elimination of the dealer amounting as it will  toprohibition  of any exercise of the right to carry on  tradeor  to	acquire	 property would therefore  be  in  any	caseoutside the saving provisions of cls. 5 and 6 of Art. 19.Certain observations made by Kania, C. J., and S. R. Das, J.(as he then was) in Gopalan'S Case (1) appear at first sightto lend support to this argument.  At p. 106 of the  Report,Kania,	C. J., after pointing out that the  'deprivation  ofpersonal liberty has not the same meaning as restriction  offree   movement	 in  the  territory  of	 India	 observed:-"Therefore  Art.	 19(5)	cannot apply to	 a  substantive	 lawdepriving  a  citizen of personal liberty.  I am  unable  toaccept the contention that the word " deprivation " includeswithin	its scope " restriction " when interpreting  article21".Das, J., at p. 301 of the Report, says :-" Clause (5) of Art. 19, qualifies sub-clause (d) of  clause(1)  which  should, therefore, be read in the light  of	 cl.(5).  The last mentioned clause permits the State to  imposereasonable restrictions on the[1950] S.C.R. 88.384exercise   of	the  right  of	free   movement	  throughoutthe  territory of India as explained above.   Imposition  ofreasonable  restrictions clearly implies that the  right  offree  movement is not entirely destroyed but that  parts  ofthe right remain."It   has  to  be  noticed,  however,  that   these   observ-ations	were made in the context of an argument of  conflictbetween Art. 19(5) and Art. 21 of the Constitution and couldnot  have been intended for general  application.  ChintamanRao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1) the constitutionalityof the Central Provinces and Berar Regulation of Manufactureof   Bidis   (Agricultural  Purposes)  Act,  came   up	 forconsideration,	Mahajan, J., delivering the judgment of	 theCourt, after pointing out that the question was whether	 thetotal prohibition of carrying on the business of manufactureof  bidis  within  the agricultural  season  amounted  to  areasonable  restriction of the fundamental rights  mentionedin  Art.  19(1)(g) of the Constitution, based  his  decisionthat  the  impugned  law  did not  come	 within	 the  savingprovisions  of	Art. 19(6) of the Constitution on  the	viewthat the test of reasonableness was not satisfied and not ona view that " prohibition " went beyond " restriction ".  Atp. 764 of the Report the learned Judge says:"  The effect of the provisions of the Act, however, has  noreasonable relation to the object in view but is so  drasticin  scope that it goes much in excess of that  object.	 Notonly  are  the provisions of the statute in  excess  of	 therequirements of the case but the language employed prohibitsa  manufacturer	 of bidis from employing any person  in	 hisbusiness,  no matter wherever that person may  be  residing.In  other  words, a manufacturer of bidis residing  in	thisarea  cannot import labour from neighbouring places  in	 thedistrict  or province or from outside the province.  Such  aprohibition  on	 the face of it is of  an  arbitrary  natureinasmuch  as  it has no relation whatsoever  to	 the  objectwhich the legislation seeks(1)[1950] S.C.R. 759.			    385to  achieve  and as such cannot be said to be  a  reasonablerestriction on the exercise of the right."The law was struck down because the restriction in this caseamounting to prohibition was not reasonable and not  becauseit was a prohibition.In Saghir Ahamad's Case (1) and in Chamarbaugwala's  Case(2)the question whether prohibition of the exercise of a  rightwas within the meaning of restrictions on the exercise of  aright  used  in cl. 6 was raised but the  Court	 decided  toexpress no final opinion in the matter and left the questionopen.	In  Cooverjee's	 Case (3)  the	Court  extended	 theprovisions of Cl. 6 of Art. 19 to a law which had the effectof prohibiting the exercise of a right to carry on trade  tomany citizens.	Mahajan, J., delivering the judgment of	 theCourt observed:"   In	order  to  determine  the  reasonableness   of	 therestriction regard must be had to the nature of the businessand the conditions prevailing in that trade.  It is  obviousthat  these factors must differ from trade to trade  and  nohard and fast rules concerning all trades can be laid  down.It  can also not be denied that the State has the  power  toprohibit trades which are illegal or immoral or injurious tothe  health  and welfare of the	 public.   Laws	 prohibitingtrades in noxious or dangerous goods or trafficking in womencannot	be held to be illegal as enacting a prohibition	 andnot  a	mere regulation.  The nature of	 the  business,	 is,therefore,    an   important   factor	in   deciding	 thereasonableness of the restrictions."In Madhya Bharat Cotton Association Ltd. (4), the Court	 hadto  consider  the  constitutionality of an  order  which  ineffect prohibited a large section of traders, from  carryingon their normal trade in forward contracts.  In holding	 theorder to be valid, Bose, J., delivering the judgment of	 theCourt said " Cotton being a commodity essential to the	lifeof  the	 community, it is reasonable  to  have	restrictionswhich may, in certain(1)[1955] 1 S.C.R. 707.(2)[1957] S.C.R. 874.(3)[1954] S.C. R. 873, 879.(4)A.I. R. 1954 S.C. 634~,386circumstances,	extend	to  total prohibition  for  a  time,of  all normal trading in the commodity."It is clear that in these three cases, viz., Chintaman Rao'sCase   (1),   Cooverjee's  Case	 (2)   and   Madhya   BharatCotton	Association Ltd.  Case (3) the Court considered	 thereal  question	to  be whether	the  interference  with	 thefundamental  right,  was  "  reasonable	 "  or	not  in	 theinterests  of the general public and that if the  answer  tothe question was in the affirmative, the law would be  validand  it would be invalid if the test of	 reasonableness	 wasnot  passed.  Prohibition was in all these cases treated  asonly a kind of " restriction ". Any other view would, in ouropinion, defeat the intention of the Constitution.After  Art. 19(1) has conferred on the citizen	the  severalrights	set out in its seven sub-clauses, action is at	oncetaken by the Constitution in cls. 2 to 6 to keep the way  ofsocial	control	 free  from  unreasonable  impediment.	 Theraison detre of a State being the welfare of the members  ofthe   State   by  suitable   legislation   and	 appropriateadministration,	 the  whole purpose of the creation  of	 theState  would be frustrated if the conferment of these  sevenrights	would  result  in cessation of	legislation  in	 theextensive  fields  where these seven  rights  operate.	 Butwithout the saving provisions that would be the exact resultof  Art.  13 of the Constitution.  It was to  guard  againstthis  position that the Constitution provided in its cls.  2to 6 that even in the fields of these rights new laws  mightbe made and old laws would operate where this was  necessaryfor  general welfare.  Laws imposing reasonable	 restrictionon the exercise of the rights are saved by cl. 2 in  respectof rights under sub-cl. (a) where the restrictions are "  inthe  interests of the security of the State; " and of  othermatters mentioned therein; by cl. 3 in respect of the rightsconferred by sub-cl. (b) where the restrictions are " in theinterests of the public order; by cls. 4, 5 and 6 in respectof the rights conferred by sub-cls. (c), (d), (e), (f) & (g)the restrictions are " in the interest of the general public"-in  cl. 5 which is in respect of rights conferred by	sub-cls. (d),(1) [1950] S.C.R. 759.			(2) [1954] 873. 879.(3)  A.I.R. 1954 S.C. 634.			    387(e)  &	(f) also where the restrictions are ',for  the	pro-tection	 of the interests of any scheduled tribe ". But	 forthese  saving  provisions  such laws would  have  been	voidbecause	 of Art. 13, which is in these words " All  laws  inforce  in  the territory of India  immediately	  before thecommencement  of  this Constitution, in so far as  they	 areinconsistent with the provisions of this Part, shall, to theextent,	 of such inconsistency be void; (2) The State  shallnot  make  any law which takes away or abridges	 the  rightsconferred by this Part and any law made in contravention  ofthis  clause shall, to the extent of the  contravention,  bevoid . . . "As it was to remedy the harm that would otherwise be  causedby  the provisions of Art. 13, that these saving  provisionswere made, it is proper to remember the words of Art. 13  ininterpreting  the words " reasonable restrictions "  on	 theexercise of the right as used in cl. (2).  It is  reasonableto think that the makers of the Constitution considered	 theword  restriction  " to be sufficiently wide  to  save	lawsinconsistent " with Art. 19(1), or " taking away the  rights"  conferred by the Article, provided this inconsistency  ortaking away was reasonable in the interests of the differentmatters	 mentioned  in the clause.  There can  be  no  doubttherefore  that	 they intended the word " restriction  "  toinclude cases of " prohibition " also.	The contention	thata law prohibiting the exercise of a fundamental right is  inno  case  saved, cannot therefore be accepted.	 It  is	 un-doubtedly  correct,  however, that when, as in	the  presentcase,  the  restriction	 reaches the  stage  of	 prohibitionspecial	 care has to be taken by the Court to see  that	 thetest  of  reasonableness  is  satisfied.   The	greater	 therestriction,  the more the need for strict scrutiny  by	 theCourt.In  applying  the test of reasonableness, the Court  has  toconsider  the  question in the background of the  facts	 andcircumstances  under which the order was made,	taking	intoaccount	 the  nature  of  the evil that	 was  sought  to  beremedied  by  such  law, the ratio of  the  harm  caused  toindividual   citizens  by  the	proposed  remedy,   to	 thebeneficial effect reasonably expected to388result to the general public.  It will also be necessary  toconsider in that connection whether the restraint caused  bythe law is more than was necessary in the  interests of	 thegeneral public. The position of the copper trade at the end of March, 1958,within	two  days of which the impugned order  was  made  isfairly	clear.	 Copper	 is  so	 largely   required  by	 theindustries  in India for producing various consumer's  goodsand  also sheets and other articles which are needed as	 rawmaterial in other industries that the position that it is anessential  commodity  cannot be and has not  been  disputed.The  quantity  of copper produced in India is  so  small  ascompared with the normal needs of the Industry that for manyyears the Industry had to depend on imports from abroad.  Itwas  apparently because of the importance of this metal	 forthe industries in India that copper was kept for a long timein  the	 Open General List and free  import  was  permitted.When  however the foreign exchange position of	the  countrydeteriorated  and  it  was  felt  necessary  in	 the  largerinterests  of  the country to conserve foreign	exchange  asmuch  as possible copper was excluded from the Open  GeneralList from July 1, 1957, and it became necessary to obtain  alicence before copper could be imported.  During the  periodJuly  to  September  1957  licences  were  granted  to	bothEstablished importers of coppers as also to actual users notbeing established importers.  During the period October 1957to   March  1958,  licences  were  granted  to	 establishedimporters  only.  Whatever the motive of such  exclusion  ofactual	users  might have been, the result  was	 disastrous.Having	a  practical monopoly of this imported	commodity  ahandful	 of importers was in a position to dictate terms  toconsumers and by March 1958 the price of copper in India perton was Rs. 3,477 as against the international price of	 Rs.2,221.	 It is not disputed that result of the abuse by	 theimporters  of  the practical monopoly given to them  of	 thecopper	market	seriously  affected  the  interests  of	 thegeneral public in India.  Nor is it disputed that it was  inan  honest effort to protect these interests of	 the  publicthat the			    389impugned  legislation  in  the	form  of  Non-ferrous  MetalControl Order and the subsequent specification of principleswas made.The  first evil sought to be remedied by the law being	thusthe  rise in price-which was bound to be reflected    in thehigher	price of the consumers' goods in the  production  ofwhich copper formed a major ingredient -an order controllingthe  price  would of course be the first  obvious  step	 forfighting  this evil.  Experience has shown however  that  ifnothing	 else is done it is practically impossible  to	makethe  control of price effective.  The  essential  subsidiarystep therefore was to introduce a system of permits so	thatthe  persons acquiring copper could be known.  A  system  ofpermits would also be of great help in ensuring that the rawmaterial  would go to those industries where it	 was  neededmost   and  distributed	 in  such  quantities	to   severalindustries  in	different  parts of  the  country  as  wouldprocure the greatest benefit to the general public.   Clause3  of  the  Order fixes a pi-ice while cl.  4  introduces  asystem of permits for the acquisition of the material., Somefixation  of  price, being essential to keep  prices  withinreasonable limits, must therefore be held to be a reasonablerestriction in the interests of the general public.  Was  itnecessary, however, that the prices should be fixed in	sucha manner as to eliminate the dealer completely, as has	beendone in the instant case ?  The introduction of a system  ofpermits	 was also clearly necessary in the interests of	 thegeneral	 public.   Was it necessary however to	specify	 theprinciples  that  would drive the dealer  out  of  business?These  questions  require  careful  consideration,  for	 theinjury	inflicted on the dealer by such elimination is	verygreat  and in spite of the presumption of  Constitutionalitythat  attaches to every law the Court ought to examine	withspecial	 care laws which result, as in the present case,  intotal restraint of rights conferred by the Constitution.That  middleman's profits increase the price of goods  whichthe consumer has to pay is axiomatic.  It is entirely  wrongto think that the middleman gets his profits for nothing andone has to remember that the50390middleman  by forming the distribution channel	between	 theproducers  and	consumers  relieves the	 procedures  of	 theburden of storing goods for a length of	     time  and	 therisk  attendant thereto and relieves the   consumers  of thetrouble and expense of going to the producer who may be	 andoften  is a long distance away.	 It is however in  the	verynature	of things that the middleman has to charge not	onlyas regards the interest on the capital invested by him,	 anda reasonable remuneration for management but also in respectof the risks undertaken by him-what the economists call	 the"  entrepreneur's  risk."  These  charges  often  add  to  aconsiderable  sum.  It has therefore been the  endeavour  atleast  in  modern  times for those  responsible	 for  socialcontrol to keep middlemen's activities to the minimum and toreplace	 them  largely	by co-operative	 sale  societies  ofproducers   and	 co-operative  purchase	 societies  of	 theconsumers.   While  it	is clear  that	the  middleman	doesperform	 important  services, it is equally clear  that	 theinterests  of  the  public would be best  secured  if  theseservices  could be obtained at a price lower than  what	 themiddleman would ordinarily charge.  If the middleman  ceasesto function because of the fixation of price at landed	costplus  3 1/2%, the manufacturers who require copper as  theirraw material will have to establish contacts with importers.This will mean some trouble and inconvenience to them but itis  reasonable	to  think that the saving  in  the  cost  ofobtaining  the raw material would more than compensate	themfor this.  The lower cost of the raw material is also likelyto  be reflected-in a competitive market-in the lower  priceof the consumer's goods, of which copper is a raw  material,and thus redound to the benefit of the general public.It  must  therefore  be held that cl. 3 of  the	 Order	eventhough it results in the elimination of the dealer from	 thetrade  is a reasonable restriction in the interests  of	 thegeneral public.	 Clause 4 read with the principles specifiedmust  also  be held for the same reason to be  a  reasonablerestriction.It  was next urged that these principles are  discriminatoryas between manufacturers and dealers and so			    391violate	 Art.  14 of the Constitution.	 Quite	clearly	 thedealers and manufacturers are by these principles placed  indifferent classes and while some manufacturers are  eligiblefor  permits dealers are not.  It is equally  clear  howeverfrom  what has already been said about that the	 differentiawhich  distinguish  dealers as a  class	 from  manufacturersplaced in the other class have a reasonable connection	withthe  object  of	 the legislation.   There  is  therefore  nosubstance  in the contention that the specification  of	 theprinciples violates Art. 14 of the Constitution.While however cl. 3 of the Order is clearly within the	Act,the  question  whether	cl. 4 read with	 the  principles  iswithin	the Act or not is not free from difficulty.  If	 theprinciples had been specified in the Order itself and/or hadbeen  notified in the Official Gazette and laid before	boththe Houses of Parliament in the manner indicated in  sub-ss.(5)  and  (6) of s. 3 of the Act, the regulation  by  cl.  4would  have been within the Act.  These principles were	 nothowever	 mentioned  in the Order nor were they	notified  orlaid  before  both Houses of Parliament in the	manner	laiddown  in sub-ss. (5) and (6) of s. 3. The regulation  in  sofar  as	 it  is	 by these  principles  is  therefore  not  aregulation  by	an order under s. 3 of the  Act	 but  whollyoutside	 it and so would not come within the  protection  ofthe  saving  provisions of cls. 5 and 6 of Art.	 19  of	 theConstitution.But  without  the  principles, cl. 4 of	 the  Order  is	 noteffective.   The  system  of permits which  this  clause  isdesigned  to introduce can come into existence only  if	 thepermits	 can  be issued; but permits can be issued  only  inaccordance  with  the principles laid down  by	the  CentralGovernment.   It is not possible to build on the use of	 thewords  " may specify " in cl. 4 an argument that so long  asno  principles	are  specified	the  Controller	 would	haveauthority to issue permits by exercise -of his own  judgmentand discretion.	 The words used in cl . 4 do not permit sucha construction and compel the conclusion that so long as theprinciples  are not specified by the Central  Government  nopermit can be issued by the Controller.	 Enforcement of	 theprovision that no person shall acquire or agree392to  acquire except under a permit, would thus, so  long	  asthe  principles	 are  not specified in	a  legal  manner  asrequired  by  sub-ss. (5) and (6) of s. 3 of  the  EssentialCommodities  Act,  would  mean	a  total  stoppage  of	 theCopper trade-not only of the transactions of dealers but  ofany transaction whatever in imported copper.  On the face ofit  this  could	 not  be a  reasonable	restriction  in	 theinterests  of  the  general  public.   There  is  no  escapetherefore from the conclusion that so long as principles arenot specified by the Central Government by an Order notifiedin accordance with sub-s. (5) and laid before both Houses ofParliament  in	accordance  with  sub-s.  6  of	 s.  3	 theregulation by cl. 4 as it is now ,Worded is not within the -saying	 provisions  of	 Arts.	19(5)  and  19(6)   of	 theConstitution,  and  is	void  as  taking  away	the   rightsconferred by Arts. 19(1)(f) and 19(1)(g).All  that is necessary to make cl. 4 effective is that	someprinciples  should be specified, and these notified  in	 theGazette and laid before the Houses of Parliament.  It may benecessary  from	 time to time to specify new  principles  inview  of the changed circumstances; these have again  to  benotified  in  the  Gazette and laid  before  the  Houses  ofParliament,  in	 order	to be effective.   So  long  as	 newprinciples do not come into operation, by being specified byGovernment, and thereafter notified in the Gazette and	laidbefore	Houses of Parliament, the previous  principles	lastspecified, notified in the Gazette and laid before Houses ofParliament,   will  remain  effective.	 As,  however,	 theprinciples  specified in the letter of the 18th	 April	havenot  been notified in the Gazete, nor laid before Houses  ofParliament, and no principles appear to have been  specifiedbefore	or  after that date, cl. 4 of the order, as  it	 nowstands, must be struck down as void.The  petitioners  are therefore entitled to relief  only  inrespect	 of cl. 4 of the order.	 We direct that an order  beissued	restraining the respondents from enforcing cl. 4  ofthe  Non-ferrous Metal Control Order, so long as  principlesin  accordance with law, are not published in  the  OfficialGazette and laid before the			    393Houses of Parliament in accordance with sub-s. (5) and	sub-s. (6) of s. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act.As the petition has succeeded in part and failed in part, weorder that the parties will bear their own costs.Petition partly allowed.