PETITIONER:CHANDRIKA PRASAD TRIPATHI	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI SIV PRASAD CHANPURIA & OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:09/04/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  827		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 527 CITATOR INFO : R	    1983 SC 558	 (25)ACT:Election Petition--Security deposit-Dismissal of Petition byElection  Tribunal  for	 defect in  deposit-Appeal  to	HighCourt,	if competent-Representation of the People Act,	1951(43 Of 1951), ss. 90(3), 98, 116-A and 117.HEADNOTE:Respondent  I  filed an election  petition  challenging	 theelection  of  the appellant.  The security  required  to  bedeposited  under s. 117 Of the Representation of the  PeopleAct, 1951, was made in the following terms:" Security deposits for Election Petition of Bargi  AssemblyConstituency  No.  97,	Distt.	 Jabalpur,  Madhya  Pradesh.Refundable by order of the Election Commission of India, NewDelhi."Before the Election Tribunal the appellant made an  applica-tion  alleging	that  there  was  non-compliance  with	 theprovisions  s.	117 inasmuch as (i) the deposit was  not  infavour of the Secretary to the Election Commission, and (ii)the  amount was only refundable to the depositor  and  wouldnot  be	 payable  to  appellant in  case  the  petition	 wasdismissed   under  s.  90(3).	The  Tribunal	upheld	 theobjections  and	 dismissed  the	 petition  under  s.  00(3).Respondent  I preferred an appeal under s. 116-A of the	 Actto  the High Court.  The High Court allowed the appeal,	 setaside ,the order of the Tribunal and sent back the  petitionfor  trial.  The appellant contended that no appeal  lay  tothe  High Court and that there was non-compliance  with	 theprovisions of s.117.Held,  that, an appeal lay to the High Court under s.  116-Aof   the Act against the dismissal of the election  petitionunder S.  90(3)	 by the Tribunal.  The order passed  by	 theTribunal  under	 s.  90(3)  was	 an  order  passed  at	the,conclusion of the trial of the petition and was in substanceand  in law one under s. 98.  Once an election petition	 wasentrusted  to the Tribunal the trial started and  any  orderpassed	by  the Tribunal which concluded the  trial  was  anorder at the conclusion of the trial.Harish	Chandra Bajpai v. Tirloki Singh, [1957] S.C.R.	370,referred to.Gulsher Ahmad v. Election Tribunal, A.I.R. 1958 Madh.	Pra.224, approved. Held,	further that, there had been substantial  compliancewith  the provisions of s. 117 of the Act.  Section 117	 wasnot   to  be  strictly	or  technically	 construed   and   asubstantial compliance with its requirements was sufficient.The security in this case528had  been  made	 in  respect of	 the  election	petition  inquestion  and it had been credited towards the	accounts  ofthe Election Commission.  The use of the words "  refundable"  would not prevent the Election Commission from making  anorder of payment of the amount to the successful party.Kamraj	Naday  v.  Kunju Thevar,  A.I.R.  [1958]  S.C.	687,applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 343 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  8,  1958, of the Madhya Pradesh High Court  in  FirstAppeal	No.  141 of 1957, arising out of  the  judgment	 andorder  dated  December 5, 1957, of  the	 Election  Tribunal,Jabalpur, in Election Petition Case No. I of 1957.G.   C. Mathur, for the appellant.P.   Rama Reddy and R., Mahalingier, for respondent No. 1.1959.  April 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADIKAR, J.-This appeal by special leave arises	 outof  an election petition filed by respondent I (No.  320  of1957) before the Election Commission, New Delhi, in which heprayed	that the appellant's election to the Madhya  PradeshLegislative  Assembly  from  Bargi  constituency  should  bedeclared  to be void and that it should be further  declaredthat  he  had  himself	been  duly  elected  from  the	saidconstituency.  The polling for the election in question	 wastaken on March 9, 1957, and the result was declared on March12,  1957.   Of	 the  three candidates	who  had  stood	 forelection,  the appellant secured 9308 votes,  respondent  1,8019  votes  and  the third candidate,	respondent  2,	3210votes.The  petition  filed by respondent I was  entrusted  to	 theElection  Tribunal,  Jabalpur, for trial.   On	October	 12,1957,  the-appellant filed before the Election Tribunal,  anobjection  under s. 90, sub-s. (3) of the Representation  ofthe People Act, 1951 (hereinafter called the Act),  allegingthat respondent 1 had not complied with the provisions of s.117 of the Act in regard to529the  making  of the deposit of the security  for  costs	 andpraying	 that his election petition should be  dismissed  onthat account under s. 90, sub-s. (3) of the Act.  RespondentI  disputed  these allegations and urged that there  was  nojustification for dismissing his petition under s. 90,	sub-s. (3) of the Act.By  its	 order	passed on December  5,	1957,  the  ElectionTribunal  held that the provisions of s. 117 were  mandatoryand that they had not been complied with by respondent 1. IDthe  result  the  application filed  by	 the  appellant	 wasallowed, his objection was upheld and the election  petitionpresented by respondent I was dismissed under s. 90,  sub-s.(3) of the Act.On  December 27, 1957, respondent I preferred an  appeal  inthe  High  Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur	against	 thesaid  order (Appeal No. 141 of 1957).  In the High  Court  apreliminary  objection was urged on behalf of the  appellantthat  the appeal preferred by respondent I  was	 incompetentunder s. 116A of the Act.  This objection was overruled	 andthe merits of the appeal were considered by the High  Court.On  the	 merits the High Court held that  respondent  I	 hadsubstantially  complied with s. 117 and so the order  passedby  the Election Tribunal dismissing the  election  petitionfiled  by respondent I was set aside and the  said  petitionwas  sent  back	 to the Election Tribunal  for	disposal  inaccordance with law.On  February  22, 1958, the appellant applied  to  the	HighCourt  for a certificate of fitness but his application	 wasdismissed.    Thereupon	 the  appellant	 applied  for,	 andobtained, special leave to appeal from this.  Court on April14, 1958.  That is how this appeal has come to this Court.The first point which calls for our decision in this  appealis  whether  the High Court was right in  holding  that	 theappeal	preferred before it by respondent I  was  competent.The  appellant's contention is that the impugned  order	 waspassed	under  s. 90, sub-s. (3) and no appeal	is  providedagainst such an order under s. 116A.  Section 116A  providesthat  an  appeal  shall lie from every	order  made  by	 thetribunal under s. 98 67530or  s.	99  to	the High Court of the  State  in  which	 thetribunal  is  constituted.   We are  not  concerned  in	 thepresent	 appeal	 with s. 99.  The case for respondent  I  isthat  in  substance and in law the impugned  order  must  bedeemed	to have been passed under s. 98.  That is  the	viewwhich the High Court has taken and we are satisfied that theHigh Court is right.It  is true that in terms and in form the order	 was  passedunder  s. 90 sub-s. (3); and it is also true that the  rightto  prefer  on appeal is a creature of the  statute  and  noappeal	can be held to be competent unless it is shown	thatsuch  a	 right flows from the relevant	statutory  provisionitself,	 In order to decide whether or not an  order  passedunder  s.  90,	sub-s. (3) can be regarded  in	law  and  insubstance  as  an  order passed under s.  98,  it  would  berelevant to consider the scope and effect of the  provisionsof  the said two sections.  Section 98(a) provides  that  atthe  conclusion	 of the trial of an  election  petition	 thetribunal  shall	 make  an  order  dismissing  the   electionpetition.   There is no doubt that in the present  case	 theElection Tribunal has dismissed the election, petition filedby respondent 1. But the appellant's contention is that thisdismissal  cannot be said to be under s. 98(a)	because	 theorder  dismissing  the petition has not been passed  at	 theconclusion  of	the trial of the  election  petition.	Thisargument  is not well-founded.	Section 90, subs. (3)  underwhich the impugned order purports to have been passed occursin  ch.	  III  of  Pt.	VI which deals	with  the  trial  ofelection  petitions.   In other words., s.  90,	 sub-s.	 (3)confers	 power	on  the tribunal  to  dismiss  the  electionpetition  after	 the  trial of	the  election  petition	 hascommenced.   The scheme of ch.	III clearly  indicates	thatonce  an  election  petition  is  referred  to	an  ElectionTribunal for trial under s. 86 the tribunal is possessed  ofthe  petition and all proceedings before it are	 proceedingsin  the trial of the said petition.  Section 85	 shows	thatfor failure to comply with the provisions of ss. 819 82	 and117,  the  Election Commission is empowered to	dismiss	 theelection petition.  If the Election Commission exercises itsjurisdiction and passes an order531dismissing  any election petition, it may be said  that	 theelection  petition  never reached the stage of trial  ;	 butonce  the petition has passed the scrutiny of  the  ElectionCommission  under  s. 85 and it has been  referred.  to	 theElection  Tribunal for trial, any, further action  taken  bythe  parties or any order passed by the tribunal  under	 thesaid  petition would constitute a part of the trial  of	 thesaid   petition.   This	 question  has	 been	incidentallyconsidered by this Court in Harish Chandra Bajpai v. TrilokiSingh (1) while it was dealing with s. 90, sub-s. (2) of theAct; and it has been held that " the provisions of ch.	 IIIread  as  a whole clearly show that I the trial is  used  asmeaning the entire proceedings before the tribunal from	 thetime the petition is transferred to it under s. 86 until thepronouncement  of  the award ". Therefore, there can  be  nodoubt  that the order passed under s. 90, sub-s. (3)  is  anorder  passed  at the conclusion of the trial.	It  is	truethat it is an order on a preliminary point of law raised  bythe  appellant; but even so the decision of the	 preliminaryissue is undoubtedly a part of the trial of the petition andit  cannot  be	said  that  the	 order	passed	on  such   apreliminary  point is not an order passed at the  conclusionof the trial when it, in fact, concludes the trial.Section	 90,  sub-s. (3) provides that	the  tribunal  shalldismiss an election petition which does not comply with	 theprovisions of ss. 81, 82 or 117 notwithstanding that it	 hasnot  been dismissed by the Election Commission under s.	 85.It would thus be clear that an objection raised against	 thecompetence  of the election petition on the ground that	 theprovisions of the aforesaid sections have not been  compliedwith  can be considered by the Election Commission suo	motuunder s. 85 and if it is upheld the election petition can bedismissed  without any further enquiry; but if the  ElectionCommission  does not dismiss the petition under s. 85,	thenthe  same  objection  can  be  raised  before  the  ElectionTribunal  by the respondent to the election petition  ;	 andwhen  it  is  so  raised  it  assumes  the  character  of  apreliminary objection and(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 370,387.532is  dealt with by the Election Tribunal as  any	 preliminaryobjection  would  be dealt with by a civil court  under	 theCode  of  Civil	 Procedure.  That being	 so,  a	 preliminaryobjection has been tried and the decision on the preliminaryobjection  being  in favour of the respondent  the  electionpetition  is  dismissed.  Though the order of  dismissal  inform  may be under s. 90, subs. (3), it is in substance	 andin law an order of dismissal passed at the conclusion of thetrial  and  must be deemed to be an order  under  s.  98(a).That  is  the view which the Madhya Pradesh High  Court	 hastaken  in Gulshar Ahmed v. Election Tribunal(1) and  it	 wasthis  decision which was followed by the High Court  in	 thepresent	  proceedings.	 In  our  opinion,  therefore,	 thecontention raised by the appellant that the appeal preferredby respondent I- before the High Court was incompetent	mustbe rejected.The  question  of construing s. 90 can	be  considered	fromanother point of view.	It provides for the procedure beforethe tribunal and lays down that it is open to	  thetribunal to dismiss an election petition under s. 90, sub-s.(3); but this being a procedural provision is	  would	 notbe  unreasonable  to  hold  that,  when	 the  actual   orderdismissing the petition is passed, it would be referable  tothe  provisions	 of  s. 98(a).	The  same  conclusion  wouldfollow	if  we consider the provisions of ss. 103,  106	 and107.   It cannot be suggested that the order passed  by	 thetribunal dismissing the election petition for  noncomplianceof s. 117 is not required to be communicated to the ElectionCommission  under  s.  103 or transmitted  by  the  ElectionCommission  to	the  appropriate  authority  under  s.	106.Similarly  it  cannot be said that such an order  would	 nottake  effect  as soon as it is pronounced  by  the  tribunalunder  s.  107.	 It would thus be noticed  that	 though	 theprovisions of these sections are obviously applicable to  anorder dismissing the election petition on the ground of non-compliance  of s. 117, in terms the said sections  refer  toorders passed under s. 98 or s. 99.  Therefore, we think  itwould  be  reasonable  to  hold	 that,	where  the  tribunaldismisses an election petition by virtue of the provi-(1)  A.I.R. 1958 Madh.	Pra, 224.533sions contained in s. 90, sub-s. (3), the order of dismissalmust be deemed to have been made under s. 98.  Similarly  s.99(1)  (b)  which  empowers the tribunal to  fix  the  totalamount of costs payable and to specify the person by and  towhom  that shall be paid in terms refers to cases  where  anorder  is  made under s. 98.  It cannot be  suggested  that,where  an order of dismissal is passed under s.	 90,  sub-s.(3),  the  tribunal  cannot, make an  appropriate  order  ofcosts.	This provision also indicates that-the order  passedunder s. 90, sub-s. (3) is in law and in substance an  orderpassed under s.	    98(a).   It is true that in cases  wheresuch  ail  order is passed s. 99(1)(a) would not  come	intooperation,  but that can hardly affect the position that  anorder'	under  s. 90, sub-s. (3) is  nevertheless  an  orderunder s. 98.We  would like to add that by Act 58 of 1958 an	 explanationhas  been  added to s. 90, sub-s. (3)  which  clarifies	 thelegislative  intention	on  this  point.   This	 explanationprovides  that	an  order  of  the  tribunal  dismissing  anelection petition under this sub-section shall be deemed  tobe  an	order  made  under cl. (a)  of	s.  98.	  After	 theenactment of this explanation there can be no doubt that ailorder passed under s.	 90, sub-s. (3) would be  appealableunder s. 116 A of the	 Act.That  takes us to the second point raised by  the  appellantthat the High Court was in error in holding that  respondentI  bad	complied with the provisions of s. 117 of  the	Act.Section 117 provides that the petitioner shall enclose	withthe  petition a Government Treasury Receipt showing  that  adeposit	 of  Rs.  1,000/has been made by  him  either  in  aGovernment  Treasury  or  in the Reserve Bank  of  India  infavour	of  the	 Secretary to  the  Election  Commission  assecurity  for costs of the petition.  In the  present  case,respondent 1 has deposited the requisite security, but it isurged  that the security has not been deposited as  requiredby s. 117.  This is how the security deposit has been made534				  Under Amount.By whom On what account. rupees inbrought.				words.	   Rs. A. P.Shiv Prasad	Security deposits for	 Rs. One 1,000-0-0.Chanpuria.	Election Petition of	 Thous-	 Bargi Assembly Con- and and	 stituency  No. 97 one	 D i s t t., Jabalpur, only.	 Madhya Pr ad es h.	 Refundable  by	 order	 of  the  Election Commission	 of India, New Delhi.				  Total ... 1000-0-0.The argument is that the security has not been deposited  inthe  name  of the Secretary to the  Election  Commission  asrequired  by s. 117 and it is deposited with  the  conditionthat  it  is  refundable  by  the  order  of  the   ElectionCommission  of India.  In other words, the only power  whichthe Election Commission of India can exercise in respect  ofthe  security is to refund the amount to respondent I ;	 andit  would not be competent to the Commission to	 direct	 theamount	to  be paid to the appellant even  if  the  electionpetition filed by respondent I is dismissed with costs.	  Inour  opinion, this objection is purely, technical.   It	 hasrecently  been held by this Court in Kamaraj Nadar V.  KunjuThevar (1) that s.117 should not be strictly or	 technicallyconstrued and that wherever it is shown that there has	beena substantial compliance with its requirements the  tribunalshould not dismiss the 'election petition under s. 90,	sub-s.  (3) on technical grounds.  Indeed it is clear  that	 thereceipt	 with which this Court was concerned in the case  ofKamaraj Nadar (1), was perhaps slightly more defective	thanthe receipt in the present case.  The argument based on	 theuse  of	 the word " refundable " ignores the fact  that	 thesecurity  in terms has been made in respect of the  electionpetition  in  question	and it has  been  duly	credited  astowards the account of the Election Commission.	  Therefore,there can be no doubt that if an(1)  A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 687.535occasion arises for the Election Commission to make an orderabout the payment of this amount to the successful party theuse  of	 the  word "refundable"	 will  cause  no  difficultywhatever.   We	hold  that the security has  been  made	 by,respondent. 1 as required by S. 117 of the Act and would  beat  the disposal of the Election Commission in	the  presentproceedings.We would like to add that even s. 117 has been	subsequentlyamended by Act 58 of 1958 and the reference to the Secretaryhas been deleted.The  result is the appeal fails and must be  dismissed	withcosts.Appeal dismissed.