PETITIONER:M/S.  S. C. CAMBATTA & CO.  PRIVATE LTD., BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF EXCESS PROFITS  TAX BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:30/11/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.KAPUR, J.L.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1010		  1961 SCR  (2) 805 CITATOR INFO : R	    1972 SC2373	 (11)ACT:Excess	 Profits   Tax--Assessment--Sale  of   theatre	 andrestaurant--Goodwill--Value  of--Principle  of	computation-Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940 (XV of 1940).HEADNOTE:The appellant carried on various businesses and one such wasthe running of a Theatre and Restaurant.  In October,  1943,a subsidiary company was formed which was using the premisesof the Theatre under a lease granted to it from April, 1944.In  working out the capital of the two companies for  excessprofits	 tax, a claim of rupees five lakhs for	goodwill  aspart of the capital of the subsidiary company was not  takeninto account.On  reference  to the High Court it held that  the  Tribunalshould	have allowed the value of the goodwill	whatever  itthought was reasonable at the date of transfer.	  Thereafterthe Tribunal took into account only the value lease-hold  ofthe  site  to  the  subsidiary	company	 and  came  to	 theconclusion  that  no  goodwill	had  been  acquired  by	 thebusiness of the Theatre as such and whatever goodwill  therewas  related to the site of building itself,  and  estimatedthe  value of goodwill at rupees two lakhs.  Petition  underss.  66(1) and 66(2) read with	S. 21 of the Excess  ProfitsTax  Act being rejected by the Tribunal and the High  Court,the appellants came appeal by special leave.Held,  that  the  goodwill  of	a  business  needed  to	  beconsidered  in a broader way. It depended upon a variety  ofcircumstances  or  a combination of them.  The	nature,	 thelocation, the(1) (1959) 36 I.T.R. 222.102806service, the standing of the business, the honesty of  thosewho  run  it,  and the lack of competition  and	 many  otherfactors	 went  individually  or	 together  to  make  up	 thegoodwill,  though the locality always played a	considerablepart.  Shift the locality, and the goodwill may be lost	 butit was not everything.	The power to attract custom dependedon one or more of the other factors as well.In the instant case a question of law did arise, whether thegoodwill  of  the  Eros	 Theatre  and  Restaurant  Ltd.	 wascalculated in  accordance with law.Cruttwell v. Lye, (1810) 17 ves. 335, Trego v. Hunt, (1896)A.   C. 7 (H.  L.), Inland Revenue Commissioners v. Muller &Co.'s  Margarin, Ltd., 9101 A. C. 217 (H.  L.),	 Daniell  v.Federal Commissioner of Taxation, (1928) 42 C. L. R. 296 andFederal	 Commissioner of Taxation v. Williamson,  (1943)  67C.L.R. 561, discussed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 776 and 777of 1957.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedSeptember  25, 1956, of the Bombay High Court in  Income-taxApplication No. 48 of 1956; and from the judgment and  orderdated  March 17,1954, of the Income-tax Appellate  Tribunal,Bombay,	 in  E.P.T.A.  Nos. 757, 903  and  944	of  1948-49,respectively.A. V. Viswanatha Sastri and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the appellants.A.   N. Kripal and D. Gupta. for the respondent.1960.  November 30.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyHIDAYATULLAH, J.-These are two appeals, with special  leave,against	 an  order of the High Court of Bombay	rejecting  apetition under s. 66(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act and theorder  of  the	Income-tax Appellate  Tribunal,	 Bombay,  inrespect	 of which the petition to the High Court  was  made.Messrs.	  S. C. Cambatta & Co. (Private) Ltd., Bombay,	havefiled these appeals, and the Commissioner of Excess  ProfitsTax, Bombay, is the respondent.We  are	 concerned in these appeals  with  three  chargeableaccounting periods, each ending respectively on December 31,beginning  with	 the year, 1943 and ending  with  the  year,1945.807The  appellants	 carry on various businesses, and  one	suchbusiness was the running of a theatre and restaurant, calledthe  Eros  Theatre  and Restaurant.   In  October,  1943,  asubsidiary  Company called the Eros Theatre and	 Restaurant,Ltd.  was  formed.  The paid up capital	 of  the  subsidiaryCompany	 was Rs. 7,91,100 divided into 7,911 shares  of	 Rs.100  each.  7,901  shares were	allotted  to  the  appellantCompany	 as  consideration for assets,	goodwill,  stock-in-trade and book debts which were taken over by the subsidiaryCompany,  and the remaining 10 shares were held by the	Cam-batta  family.	 The assets which were transferred  were  asfollows:     Assets:Assets transferred..	     Rs.1,28,968Stock-in-trade.		     Rs.40,000Book debts.....		     Rs.100			 ------------------			     Rs.1,69,068			 ------------------They together with the capital reserve of Rs. 6,21,032	madeup  the	 amount	 of  Rs. 7,90,100.   In	 the  books  of	 thesubsidiary  Company,  the share capital	 account  was  shownseparately as follows:Rs.  2,50,000	 debited to the various assets account.Rs.  5,00,000	 debited to the goodwill account.Rs.  40,000	 debited to the stock-in-trade account.Rs.  100	  debited to the book debts account.It  will thus appear that goodwill was not shown  separatelyin  the appellants' account books, but only in the  accountsof  the subsidiary Company.  In working out the	 capital  ofthe  two  Companies  for excess profits tax, a	sum  of	 Rs.5,00,000  was claimed as goodwill as part of the capital  ofthe subsidiary Company.	 Both the Department as well as	 theTribunal  held	that s. 8(3) of the Excess Profits  Tax	 Actapplied;  and  the goodwill was not taken  into	 account  inworking	 out the capital.  The Tribunal declined to state  acase,  but the High Court directed that a reference be	madeon two questions, which were framed as follows:808"(1)  Whether  on  the	facts of  the  case,  the  AppellateTribunal  was right in applying section 8(3) of	 the  ExcessProfits Tax Act?(2)..Whether in the computation of the capital employed..inthe business of the assessee, the Tribunal erred in....notincluding  the	value  of  the	goodwill  or  any   "portionthereof?"The High Court by its judgment and order answered the  firstquestion in the negative and the second, in the affirmative.It  held that sub-s. (5) and not sub-s. (3) of s. 8  of	 theExcess Profits Tax Act was applicable.	It, therefore,	heldthat "the Tribunal should have allowed for the value of	 thegoodwill  whatever it thought was reasonable at the date  ofthe transfer."When  the  matter  went before	the  Tribunal  again,  threeaffidavits  and a valuation report by a firm  of  architectswere  filed.  The goodwill, according to the report  of	 thearchitects,  amounted to Rs. 25 lakhs.	It may be  mentionedhere  that  the subsidiary Company was	using  the  premisesunder a lease granted on November 20, 1944, for three  yearsbeginning  from April 1, 1944, on a rental of Rs. 9,500	 permonth.	The Tribunal came to the conclusion that no goodwillhad  been acquired by the business of the Theatre  as  such,and  that whatever goodwill there was, related to  the	siteand  building itself.  They then proceeded to consider	whatvalue  should  be set upon the goodwill on the date  of	 thetransfer  of the subsidiary Company as directed by the	HighCourt.	 They took into account certain factors in  reachingtheir  conclusions.   They  first  considered  the   earningcapacity  of the business, and held that prior to  1942	 thebusiness  had  not made profits, and that the name  of	ErosTheatre	 and  Restaurant thus by itself had no	goodwill  atall.   They,  therefore, considered that the  only  goodwillwhich  had  been acquired attached to the lease,  which	 thetrustees had given to the Eros ;Theatre and Restaurant Ltd.,and computing the goodwill as the value of the lease to	 thesubsidiary Company, they felt that Rs. 2 lakhs was a liberalestimate  of the value of the goodwill in the hands of	ErosTheatre and Restaurant, Ltd. at the material time.809Petitions  under ss. 66(1) and 66(2) read with a. 21 of	 theExcess	Profits	 Tax Act were respectively rejected  by	 theTribunal  and  the High Court; but the	appellants  obtainedspecial leave from this Court, and filed these appeals.In  our	 opinion, a question of law did arise  in  the	casewhether	 the goodwill of the Eros Theatre  and'	 Restaurant,Ltd.,  was calculated in accordance with law.  The  Tribunalseems  to  have	 taken into account only the  value  of	 theleasehold  of  the  site  to  the  subsidiary  Company,	 andrejected  other	 considerations	 which go  to  make  up	 thegoodwill  of a business.  No doubt, in Cruttwell v.  Lye(1),Lord  Eldon, L. C. observed that goodwill was "nothing	morethan the probability that the old customers would resort  tothe  old  place".  The description given by Lord  Eldon	 hasbeen considered always to be exceedingly narrow.  The matterhas  to	 be  considered from the  nature  of  the  business,because	 the goodwill of a public inn and the goodwill of  ahuge  departmental stores cannot be calculated on  identicalprinciples.  The matter has been considered in two cases  bythe  House of Lords.  The first case is Trego v.  Hunt	(2),where all the definitions previously given were	 considered,and  Lord  Macnaghten observed that goodwill is	 "the  wholeadvantage,  whatever  it  may  be  of  the  reputation	 andconnection  of	the firm, which may have been  built  up  byyears  of  honest work or gained by  lavish  expenditure  ofmoney".	  In  a subsequent case reported in  Inland  RevenueCommissioners  v.  Muller & Co.s.Margarin,  Ltd.  (3),	LordMacnaghten   at	  pp.  223  and	 224  made   the   followingobservations:."What  is  goodwill?  It is a thing very easy  to  describe,very  difficult to define.  It is the benefit and  advantageof the good-name, reputation, and connection of a  business.It  is the attractive force which brings in custom.   It  isthe   one  thing  which	 distinguishes	an   old-establishedbusiness    from    a	new   business	  at	its    firststart.................. If there is one attribute common  toall cases of goodwill in it is the attribute(1) (1810) 17 Ves. 335. 346.(2) (1896) A. C. 7 (H.L.).(3) (1901) A.C. 217 (H.L.).810of locality.  For goodwill has no independent existence.  Itcannot	subsist	 by  itself.   'It must	 be  attached  to  abusiness.   Destroy the business, and the goodwill  perisheswith  it,  though  elements  remain  which  may	 perhaps  begathered up and be revived again".These	two  cases  and	 others	 were  considered   in	 two'Australian  cases.   The first is Daniell v.  Federal	Com-missioner of Taxation (1), where, Knox, C. J. observed:"My opinion is that while it cannot be said to be absolutelyand necessarily inseparable from the premises or to have  noseparate value, prima facie at any rate it may be treated asattached  to  the premises and whatever its  value  may	 be,should	be  treated as an enhancement of the  value  of	 thepremises".In  the	 second	 case reported in  Federal  Commissioner  ofTaxation v. Williamson (2), Rich, J., observed at p.   564as follows:"Hence to determine the nature of the  goodwill in any givencase,  it is necessary to consider the type of business	 andthe  type  of customer which such a business  is  inherentlylikely	  to   attract	 as   well   as	  the	 surroundingcircumstances............  The goodwill of a business  is  acomposite  thing referable in part to its locality, in	partto  the way in which it is conducted and the personality  ofthose  who  conduct  it, and in part to	 the  likelihood  ofcompetition, many customers being no doubt actuated by mixedmotives in conferring their custom".In  Earl  Jowitt's  Dictionary of English  Law,	 1959  Edn.,"goodwill" is defined thus:"The goodwill of a business is the benefit which arises fromits  having  been carried on for some time in  a  particularhouse, or by a particular person or firm, or from the use ofa particular trade mark or trade name"It will thus be seen that the goowill of a business  dependsupon  a variety of circumstances or a combination  of  them.The location, the service, the standing of the business, thehonesty of those who run it, and the lack of competition andmany  other factors go individually or together to  make  upthe goodwill,(1) (1928) 42 C.L.R. 296.(2) (1943) 67 C.L.R. 561.811though locality always plays a considerable part.  Shift thelocality,  and the goodwill may be lost.  At the same  time,locality  is  not everything.  The power to  attract  customdepends on one or more of the other factors as well.  In thecase  of a theatre or restaurant, what is catered,  how	 theservice is run and what the competition is, contribute	alsoto the goodwill.From  the above, it is manifest that the matter of  goodwillneeds  to be considered in a much broader way than what	 theTribunal has done.  A question of law did arise in the case,and, in our opinion, the High Court should have directed theTribunal to state a case upon it.Civil  Appeal  No. 776 of 1957 is allowed.  The	 High  Courtwill  frame a suitable question, and ask for a statement  ofthe  case  from	 the Tribunal, and decide  the	question  inaccordance  with  law.	The costs of this  appeal  shall  beborne  by  the respondent; but the costs in the	 High  Courtshall  abide  the result.  There will be no order  in  CivilAppeal No. 777 of 1957.		     C.	 A. No. 776 of 1957 allowed.