PETITIONER:M.  K. VENKATACHALAIVI, I. T. O. ANDANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:BOMBAY DYEING AND MFG.	CO., LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/04/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  875		  1959 SCR  703ACT:       Income-tax-Rectification	 of order of  assessment--Amendment       of  law with retrospective enforcement-Error resulting  from       such  enforcement, if an error apparent from  the  record-If       such error can be rectified Indian Income-tax Act, 1922	(XI       of 1922), ss. 18-A and 35-Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Act,       1953 (XXV Of 1953), ss. 1 and 13.HEADNOTE:The Income-tax Officer, by his order dated October 9,  1952,assessed the respondent for the assessment year 1952-53	 andgave him credit for Rs. 50,603-15-0 as representing intereston  tax paid in advance under s. 18-A(5) of  the  Income-taxAct.   On  May 24, 1953, the Indian  Income-tax	 (Amendment)Act, 1953, came into force adding a proviso to s.18-A(5)  ofthe  Act  to the effect that the assessee  was	entitled  tointerest not on the whole of the advance tax paid by him butonly  on  the difference between the payment  made  and	 theamount	assessed.  The Amendment Act provided that it  shallbe  deemed  to have come into force on April 1,	 1952.	 TheIncome-tax Officer, acting under S. 35 of the Act, rectifiedthe assessment order holding that the assessee was  entitledto a credit of only Rs. 21,157-6-0 by way of interest on taxpaid  in advance as a result of the retrospective  operationof  the	 amendment  in s. 18-A(5), and issued  a  notice  ofdemand against the assessee for the balance of Rs. 29,446-9-0.   The  assessee  filed a petition in the  High  Court  ofBombay.	 under	Art. 226 of the Constitution praying  for  awrit prohibiting the appellants from enforcing the rectifiedorder and notice of demand.  The High Court issued the	writholding that s.	    35 was not applicable to the case as themistake mentioned in S.	 35  had to be apparent on the	faceof  the order and the question could only be judged  in	 thelight of the law as it stood on the day when the order	was,passed:Held,	that  the  Income-tax  Officer	was   justified	  inexercising  his	 powers	 under	s.  35	and  rectifying	 themistake.   As  a  result of, the  legal	 fiction  about	 theretrospective	operation   of	the   Amendment	  Act,	 thesubsequently inserted proviso must be read as. forming	partof  s. 18-A(5) of the principal Act as from April  1,  1952,and  consequently the order of the income-tax Officer  datedOctober 9, 1952, was inconsistent with the provisions of theproviso,  and  suffered	 from a mistake	 apparent  from	 therecord.Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay Presidency and Aden v.704Khemchand Ramdas, (1938) L.R. 65 I.A. 236 and Moka Venkatap-paiah  v. Additional Income-tax Officer,  Bapatla,  (1957)32I.T.R. 274, referred to.The order passed by the Income-tax Officer under s. 18-A wasnot final in the literal sense of the word; it was and	con-tinued to be liable to be modified under s. 35.	 It is	alsonot  correct to say that the retrospective operation of	 theamended	 s.18-A(5)  was	 not intended  to  affect  concludedtransactions.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.122 of 1956.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated March 5, 1954,  ofthe   Bombay  High  Court  in  Appeal  from   its   OriginalJurisdiction Misc.  Application No. 1 of 1954.H.   N. Sanyal, Addl.  Solicitor-General, G. N. Joshi and R.H. Dhebar, for the appellants.N.   A. Palkhivala, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji,P.   L. Vohra and Rameshwar Nath, for the respondent.1958.  April 28.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This	 is  an	 appeal	 by  the  Income-taxOfficer,  Companies  Circle I (1), Bombay and the  Union  ofIndia and it raises a short question about the	constructionof  s. 35 of the Income-tax Act read with s. 1,	 sub-s.	 (2)and  s.	 13 of the Indian Income-tax (Amendment)  Act,	1953(XXV  of  1953).   It arises in this  way.   The  Income-taxOfficer,  by his assessment order made on October  9,  1952,for  the assessment year 1952-53, assessed  the	 respondent,the Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Co. Ltd., under the Act.In  the	 said  assessment order the  respondent,  was  givencredit for Rs. 50,603-15-0 as representing interest at 2% ontax  paid in advance under s. 18A of the Act.	This  creditwas  given to the respondent in pursuance of the  provisionscontained in s. 18A, sub-s. (5) of the Act as it then stood.On May 24, 1953, the Amendment Act came into force.  Section1,  sub-s. (2) of the Amendment Act provides that "  subjectto  any	 special  provision  made  in  this  behalf  in	 theAmendment Act, it shall be deemed to have come into705force  on  the first day of April, 1952 ". By s. 13  of	 theAmendment Act, a proviso was added to s. 18A (5) of the Act.The  effect  of the amendment made by the insertion  of	 thesaid  proviso  to  s. 18A (5) was  that	 the.  assessee	 wasentitled  to  get  interest at 2% not on the  whole  of	 theadvance amount of tax paid by him as before but only on	 thedifference between the payment made and the amount at  whichthe   assessee	was  assessed  to  tax	under  the   regularassessment under s. 23 of the Act.  After the Amendment	 Actwas passed, the first appellant exercised his power under s.35 of the Act and purported to rectify the mistake  apparentfrom the record in regard to the credit for Rs.	 50,603-15-0allowed	 by him to the assessee.  The first  appellant	heldthat  the assessee was really entitled to a credit  of	onlyRs. 21,157-6-0 by way of interest on tax paid in advance  asa  result  of the retrospective operation of  the  amendmentmade in s. 18A (5) by the Amendment Act.  In accordance withthis  order  a notice of demand under s. 29 of the  Act	 wasissued against the assessee for the sum of Rs. 29,446-9-0 onthe ground that the assessee had been given credit for	thisexcess amount through mistake.	Aggrieved by this notice  ofdemand, the respondent filed a petition in the High Court ofBombay	 on  January  4,  1954,	 under	Art.  226   of	 theConstitution praying for a writ against the appellants interalia  prohibiting  them from, enforcing the  said  rectifiedorder  and the said notice of demand.  It appears that	thispetition  was admitted by Tendolkar J. on January  6,  1954,and  a rule issued on it.  Thereafter the said petition	 wasreferred  to  a	 Division Bench by  the	 Hon'ble  the  ChiefJustice	 for final disposal.  Accordingly on March 5,  1954,the petition was heard by Chagla C. J. and Tendolkar J.	 anda  writ was issued against the appellants.  The	 High  Courtheld  that s. 35 of the Act had no application to the  factsof  the	 case because the mistake apparent from	 the  recordcontemplated  by the said section is not a mistake which  isthe  result  of	 the amendment of the law  even	 though	 theamending  law may be retrospective in operation.   In  otherwords, in the opinion of the High Court, the706mistake mentioned by s. 35 had to be apparent on the face ofthe order and it can only be judged in the light of the	 lawas  it	stood on the day ,When the order  was  passed.	 Theappellants then applied for and obtained a certificate	fromthe  High  Court on October 8, 1954; on their behalf  it  isurged  '-that the High Court of Bombay has erred in  law  intaking the view that the appellant No. I was not entitled torectify	 the  mistake in question under s. 35  of  the	Act.Thus  the  short  question which arises	 before	 us  in	 thepresent	 appeal	 is whether an order which  was	 proper	 andvalid  when  it was made can be said to disclose  a  mistakeapparent  from	the  record  if	 the  said  order  would  beerroneous  in  view of a subsequent amendment  made  by	 theAmendment Act when the Amendment Act is intended to  operateretrospectively ?It  is unnecessary to refer to the provisions of s. 18A	 (5)as   well  as  the  provision  of  the	proviso	 which	 wassubsequently  added  by s. 13 of the Amendment Act.   It  iscommon	ground	that,  in the absence  of  the	subsequentlyinserted proviso, the assessee would be entitled to obtain acredit for Rs. 50,603-15-0.  It is also common ground  that,if the subsequently inserted proviso covered the  assessee'scase, he would be entitled to a credit only of Rs. 21,156-9-0.   It is thus obvious that the order giving  the  relevantcredit	to the assessee was valid when it was made and	thatit would be erroneous under the subsequent amendment.  Underthese  circumstances, was the first appellant  justified  inexercising his power of rectification under s.	  35 of	 theAct ?In deciding this question it would be necessary to determinethe true legal effect of the retrospective operation of	 theAmendment  Act.	 Section 1, sub-s. (2) of the Amendment	 Actexpressly  provides that subject to the	 special  provisionsmade  in the said Act it shall be deemed to have  come	intoforce  on the first day of April 1952.	The result  of	thisprovision is that the amendment made in the Act by s, 13  ofthe Amendment Act must, by legal fiction, be deemed to	havebeen included in the principal Act as from the first of707April,	1952,  and this inevitably means that, at  the	timewhen  the  Income-tax Officer passed his original  order  onOctober	 9, 1952, allowing to the respondent credit for	 Rs.50,603-15-0, the proviso added by s. 13 of the Amendment Actmust  be  deemed  to  have been inserted  in  the  Act.	  Asobserved  by  Lord  Asquith  of	 Bishopstone  in  East	 EndDwellings Co. Ltd. v. Finsbury Borough Council (1), " if youare  bidden to treat an imaginary state of affairs as  real,you  must  surely,  unless prohibited from  doing  so,	alsoimagine as real the consequences and incidents which, if theputative  state	 of  affairs  had  in  fact  existed,	mustinevitably have flowed from or accompanied it.	One of thosein  this case is emancipation from the 1939 level of  rents.The  statute says that you must imagine a certain  state  ofaffairs; it does not say that having done so, you must causeor  permit your imagination to boggle when it comes  to	 theinevitable  corollaries	 of that state of affairs  ".  Thus,there  can be no doubt that the effect of the  retrospectiveoperation of the Amendment Act is that the proviso  insertedby the said section in s. 18A (5) of the Act would, for	 alllegal  purposes, have to be deemed to have been included  inthe Act as from April 1, 1952.But  it is urged for the respondent that  the  retrospectiveoperation  of  the  relevant provision is  not	intended  toaffect	completed assessments.	It is conceded that, if	 anyassessment  proceedings in respect of the assessee's  incomefor  a	period subsequent to the first of  April  1952	werepending	 at the time when the Amendment Act was passed,	 theproviso inserted by s. 13 would govern the decision in	suchassessment  proceedings; but where an assessment  proceedinghas  been completed and an assessment order has been  passedby  the	 Income-tax  Officer against the  assessee,  such  acompleted  assessment  would not be affected and  cannot  bereopened  under	 s.  35	 by  virtue  of	 the   retrospectiveoperation  of  the  Amendment  Act.   In  support  of	thiscontention,  reliance is placed on the observations  of	 thePrivy Council in Delhi Cloth and(1) [1952] A. C. 109, 132.90708General Mills Co. Ltd. v. Income-tax Commissioner, Delhi andAnr. (1).  Lord Blanesburg who delivered the judgment of theBoard  referred	 to  the Board's earlier   decision  in	 theColonial  Sugar Refining Company v. Irving (2) where it	 wasin  effect  laid down that, while provisions  of  a  statutedealing	 merely	 with matters of   procedure  may  properly,unless	that  construction be textually	 inadmissible,	haveretrospective  effect attributed to them,  provisions  whichtouch a right in existence at the passing of the statute arenot to be applied retrospectively in the absence of  expressenactment  or necessary intendment.  The learned Judge	thenadded  that  "	Their  Lordships  have	no  doubt  that	 theprovisions which, if applied retrospectively, would  depriveof  their existing finality orders which, when that  statutecame  into  force, were final, are  provisions	which  touchexisting rights.  " The argument for the respondent is	thatthe assessee has obtained a right under the order passed  bythe  Income-tax	 Officer to claim credit for  the  specifiedamount	under s. 18A(5) and the said right cannot  be  takenaway  by  the  retrospective  operation	 of  s.	 13  of	 theAmendment Act.	The same argument is put in another form  bycontending  that  the finality of the order  passed  by	 theIncometax  Officer cannot be impaired by  the  retrospectiveoperation  of the relevant provision.  In our opinion,	thisargument does not really help the respondent's case  becausethe  order passed by the Income-tax Officer under s.  18A(5)cannot be said to be final in the literal sense of the word.This  order  was and continued to be liable to	be  modifiedunder  s.  35 of the Act.  What the Income-tax	Officer	 haspurported  to  do in the present case is not to	 revise	 hisorder in the light of the retrospective amendment made by s.13  of	the Amendment Act alone, but to exercise  his  powerunder  s. 35 of the Act; and so the question which falls  tobe  considered	in  the present appeal.	 centres  round	 theconstruction  of the expression "mistake apparent  from	 therecord " used in s. 35.	 That is why we think the  principleof the finality of the orders or the sanctity of(1)[1927] L.R. 54 I.A. 421.(2)[1905] A.C. 369.709the  existing  rights cannot be effectively invoked  by	 therespondent in the present case.The respondent then urged that the Amendment Act should	 notbe  given greater retrospective operation than its  languageand its general scheme render necessary.  This convention isbased  on the provisions of s. 3, sub-s. (2), s.  7,  sub-s.(2)  and s. 30, sub-s. (2) of the Amendment Act.  Where	 theAmendment  Act	intended that its provisions  should  affecteven  concluded	 orders	 of assessment it  is  expressly  soprovided.   Since s. 13 does not specifically authorise	 thereopening  of concluded assessments it should be  held	thatits  retrospective operation is not intended to	 cover	suchconcluded  assessments.	 That in brief is the argument.	  Weare,   however,	  not  satisfied  that	this   argument	  iswellfounded.   Let us examine the three provisions  of,	 theAmendment Act on which the argument rests.  Section 3,	sub-s.  (1)	 of the Amendment Act makes  several  additions	 andmodifications in s. 4 of the principal Act.  Section 3, sub-s.  (2) then provides that, the amendments made	 by  sub-cl.(3) of cl. (b) of sub-s. (1) shall be deemed to be operativein  relation  to all assessments for any year  whether	suchassessments have or have not been concluded before the	com-mencement of the Amendment Act of 1953.	 It would be noticedthat  the main object of this sub-section is to	 extend	 theretrospective  operation of the relevant provisions  of	 theAmendment Act beyond the first of April 1952 mentioned by s.1,  sub-s. (2) of the Amendment Act.  Since it was  intendedto  provide for such further retrospective operation of	 therelevant  provision the legislature thought it advisable  toclarify	 the  position	by saying  that	 the  said  extendedretrospective operation would cover all assessments  whetherthey  had been completed or not before the  commencement  ofthe Amendment Act.  Section 7, sub-s. (1) adds two  provisosto  s.	9 of the principal Act by cls. (a)  and	 (b).	Sub-section (2) of s. 7 then lays down that the amendments	madein cl. (a) of sub-s. (1) shall be deemed to be operative forany  assessment for the year ending the 31st day  of  March,1952, whether made before or after the commencement of	thisAct and, where any such710assessment  has	 been  made  before  such  commencement,  heIncome-tax  Officer  concerned	shall  revise  it   whenevernecessary  to give effect to this amendment.   The  positionunder	s.   30,  sub-s.  (2)  of  the	Amendment   Act	  issubstantially  similar.	  By  sub-s.  (1)  of  this  sectioncertain additions and amendments are made in the schedule tothe principal Act by cls. (a), (b), (c) and (d). sub-s.	 (2)then  provides	for  the  retrospective	 operation  of	 theamendment made by sub-s. (1) in terms similar to those	usedin s. 7, sub-s. (2).  It is clear that the Provisions in ss.7  and 30 are intended for the benefit of the assessees	 andso  the legislature may have thought it necessary to  conferon  the	 Income-tax Officer specific and  express  power  torevise	his  orders in respect of the  relevant	 assessmentswherever  necessary  to	 give effect to	 the  amendments  inquestion.   The	 effect	 of this provision  is	to  make  itobligatory  on he Income-tax Officer to revise his  originalorders	in he light of the amendments and also to confer  onthe  assessee right to claim such revision.  It may be	con-ceded that in respect of the other retrospective  provisionsof  the	 Amendment Act such a power to	revise	the  earlierorders	cannot	be claimed or exercised	 by  the  Income-taxOfficer.  In other words, a distinction can be drawn betweenthere  two provisions of the Amendment Act and the  rest  inrespect	 of  the  power which  the  Income-tax	Officer	 canpurport to exercise to give effect to the amendments made bythe  Amendment Act.  Whereas, in respect of  the  amendmentsmade by s. 7 and s. 30 of the Amendment Act, the  Income-taxOfficer can and must revise his earlier orders covered by s.7,  sub-s.  (2)	 and  s. 30, sub-s. (2),  such	a  power  ofrevision  has  not been conferred on him in  the  matter  ofgiving effect to the other amendments made in the  AmendmentAct.   Even  so, we do not think it would be  legitimate  orreasonable  to	hold that the provisions of s. 7(2)  and  s.30(2)	lead  to  the  infference  that	 the   retrospectiveoperation  of the other provisions of the Amendment  Act  isnot  intended to affect concluded assessments in any  mannerwhatever.   In	this connection, it would  be  pertinent  toremember  that the power to revise which has been  conferredon711the  Income-tax	 Officer  by s. 7(2) and  s.  30(2)  of	 theAmendment  Act is distinct and independent of the  power  torectify	 mistakes which the Income-tax Officer can  exerciseunder s. 35 of the Act.It  is in the light of this position that the extent of	 theIncome-tax Officer's power under s. 35 to rectify:  mistakesapparent  from the record must be determined; and  in  doingso,  the  scope	 and  effect of	 the  expression  "  mistakeapparent  from the record " has to be ascertained.   At	 thetime  when  the Income-tax Officer applied his mind  to	 thequestion of rectifying the alleged mistake, there can be  nodoubt  that he had to read the principal Act  as  containingthe inserted proviso as from April 1, 1952.  If that be	 thetrue position then the order which he made giving credit  tothe respondent for Rs. 50,603-15-0 is plainly and  obviouslyinconsistent  with  a specific and clear  provision  of	 thestatute and that must inevitably be treated as a mistake  oflaw apparent from the record.  If a mistake of fact apparentfrom  the  record of the assessment order can  be  rectifiedunder s. 35, we see no reason why a mistake of law which  isglaring	 and obvious cannot be similarly  rectified.   Primafacie it may appear somewhat strange that an order which wasgood  and  valid  when	it was made  should  be	 treated  aspatently  invalid and 'wrong by virtue of the  retrospectiveoperation  of  the  Amendment Act.  But	 such  a  result  isnecessarily   involved	in  the	 legal	fiction	 about	 theretrospective  operation  of the Amendment Act.	  If,  as  aresult	of  the said fiction we must read  the	subsequentlyinserted  proviso  as  forming	part of	 s.  18A(5)  of	 theprincipal  Act	as  from April 1, 1952,	 the  conclusion  isinescapable that the order in question is inconsistent	withthe  provisions	 of the said proviso and must be  deemed  tosuffer from a mistake apparent from the record.	 That is whywe  think that the Income-tax Officer was justified  in	 thepresent	 case  in  exercising  his power  under	 s.  35	 andrectifying  the said mistakes.	Incidentally we may  mentionthat in Moka Venkatappaiah v. Additional Income-Tax Officer,Bapatla	 (1),  the High Court of Andhra has taken  the	sameview.(1)(1957) 32 I. T. R. 274.712In  this  connection  it would be useful  to  refer  to	 thedecision  of  the  Privy  Council  in  the  Commissioner  of[Income-Tax, Bombay Presidency and Aden v. Khemchand  Ramdas(1).  In Khemchand's case, the assessees were registered  asa firm and they were assessed under s. 23(4) on an income ofRs.  1,25,000 at the maximum rate.  Being a registered	firmno  super-tax was levied.  A notice of demand was also	madebefore March 1927.  On February 13, 1928, the  Commissioner,in  exercise of his powers under s. 33, cancelled the  orderregistering the assessee as a firm and directed the  Income-tax  Officer  to  take	necessary  action.   The  Income-taxOfficer accordingly assessed the firm to super-tax on May 4,1929.	The Privy Council held that the assessment  made  onJanuary	 17, 1927, was final both in respect of the  income-tax and super-tax.  The fresh action taken by the Income-taxOfficer	 on May 4, 1929, was out of time though it had	beentaken in pursuance of the directions of the Commissioner andthat the order of May 4, 1929, was one which the Income-tax-Officer	 had  no power to make.	 One of	 the  points  raisedbefore	the  Privy Council was whether, under  the  relevantcircumstances  the Income-tax Officer had power to make	 theimpugned order in view of the provisions of ss. 34 and 35 ofthe Act.  The Privy Council dealt with this question on	 thefooting	  that	the  Commissioner's  order  cancelling	 theregistration  had been properly made.  On this	basis  theirLordships  thought  that  it  was  unnecessary	to  considerwhether	 the. case would attract the provisions of s.  34  "inasmuch  as  in Their Lordships' opinion the  case  clearlywould  have  fallen within the provisions of s. 35  had	 theIncome-tax  Officer exercised his powers under	the  sectionwithin	one year from the date on which the  earlier  demandwas  served upon the respondents ". The judgment shows	thatTheir Lordships took the view that looking at the record  ofthe assessments made upon the respondents as it stood  afterthe  cancellation of the respondents' registration  and	 theorder  effecting the cancellation would have formed part  ofthe record-it would be apparent that a mistake(1)(1938) L.R. 65 I.A. 236.713had  been  made in stating that no super-tax  was  leviable.This decision clearly shows that the subsequent cancellationof  the assessees' registration was held by Their  Lordshipsof   the   Privy  Council  to  form  part  of	the   recordretrospectively	 in the light of the said subsequent  event,and  the order was deemed to suffer from a mistake  apparentfrom  the  record  so  as to justify  the  exercise  of	 therectification powers under s. 35 of the Act.  It is  becauseTheir  Lordships thought that s. 35 would have been  clearlyapplicable  that  they	did not decide the  question  as  towhether	 s. 34 could also have been invoked.  This  decisionlends considerable support to the view which we are disposedto take about the true meaning and scope of the expression "the mistake apparent from the record " occurring in s. 35.We  must accordingly hold that the High Court of Bombay	 wasin error in coming to the conclusion that the notice  issuedby the Income-tax Officer calling upon the respondent to pay9the  sum of Rs. 29,446-9-0 was not warranted by  law.	 Theresult is the order passed by the High Court issuing a	writagainst the appellant is set aside and the appeal is allowedwith costs throughout.Appeal allowed.