PETITIONER:THE TATA OIL MILLS CO.	LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMEN AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1065		  1960 SCR  (1)	  1 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC 571	 (10) R	    1960 SC1346	 (6) F	    1961 SC 941	 (4) RF	    1968 SC 963	 (32,41) R	    1972 SC 330	 (10) RF	    1973 SC2394	 (8,10)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Bonus-Gross	 Profits-Extraneous   income-Profit	 unrelated  to effort of  labour-Available  surplus-Prior charges-Return on depreciation reserve used as workingcapital.HEADNOTE:In  resisting  the workmen's claim for bonus  for  the	year1955-56	 the appellant contended that in  calculating  grossprofits	 for  the  purpose of the  Full	 Bench	formula	 thefollowing items of income should be excluded :-(i)  Income earned by way of rent, light and power;(ii) estate  revenue  derived from sale of  excess  coconutsused in preparing oil grown in the appellant's groves;(iii)	  profit from sale of empty barrels; and(iv) sale  proceeds  of	 tin  cans,  scraps,  logs,  planks,gunnies etc.as  they were extraneous income unrelated to the efforts  ofthe workmen.The  appellant	also  claimed that a profit of	Rs.  3	lacsappearing  in the accounts due to a change in the method  ofvaluation  was no real profit due to the efforts  of  labourand  should not be taken into account.	In  calculating	 theavailable surplus the appellant claimed that it was entitledto  4% interest on the depreciation reserve used as  workingcapital.Held,  that the four items were earned by the  appellant  inthe  normal course of its business and could no be  excludedfrom  the gross profits on the ground that it had  not	beenproved	that they were the result of the direct	 efforts  oflabour in the bonus year.  Though there must be contributionof  the	 workmen  in earning profits before  they  could  beentitled to profit bonus, it was not necessary to  establishdirect	connection  between the efforts of the	workmen	 andeach  item of profit earned.  Profits earned in	 the  normalcourse	of business were generally the result of  the  jointeffort	of  capital  and labour.  Income or  profit  may  beextraneous if it either did not really arise in that year orit   arose  out	 of  fortuitous	  circumstances	  altogetherunconnected with the efforts of labour or arose out of	saleof fixed or capital assets.2Mill  Owners  Association,  Bombay  v.	The  Rashtriya	MillMazdoor	 Sangh,	 Bombay, (1950) L.L.J. 1247,  Shalimar	RopeWorks  Mazdoor	Union Howrah v. Shalimar  Rope	Works  Ltd.,Howrah, (1956) 2 L.L.J. 371, referred to.The  profit  of Rs. 3 lacs due to change in  the  method  ofaccounting was extraneous income and had to be excluded.  Itwas  not income in the normal course of business as  it	 wasnot likely. to arise again.  It had arisen out of fortuitouscircumstances  and  had nothing whatsoever to  do  with	 theefforts of labour.The  appellant was entitled to a 4% return on the  deprecia-tion reserves used as working capital.	If reserves were notused for this purpose the concern would have to borrow moneyand pay interest thereon.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 321 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the Award dated the  September27,  1957 of the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay,  in  Reference(I.T.) No. 119 of 1957.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   J.	  B.Dadachanji and S. N. Andley, for the appellant.Rajani Patel and Janardan Sharma for respondent No. 1.1959.  May 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO	 J.-This is an appeal by special leave	against	 theaward  of  the	Industrial Tribunal, Bombay,  in  a  disputebetween	 the  Tata Oil Mills Co. Ltd.,	Bombay	(hereinafterreferred  to as the company) and its workmen, in the  matterof  profit  bonus for the year 1955-56.	 The  dispute  aroseover   a   demand   made  by   the   workmen   for   paymentunconditionally	 as  bonus  for the year 1955-56  of  a	 sumequivalent  to four months' wages/salary for  all  employeesdrawing wages/salary of less than Rs. 500 per menses.	Thisdispute	 was  referred	to the Industrial  Tribunal  by	 theGovernment of Bombay by its order dated June 18, 1957.	 Thecompany had already paid 21 months' basic wages as bonus  toits  workmen  and the real dispute was thus only  about	 theremaining bonus for a month and half.3The case of the workmen was that the company had made recordprofits	 during the year and declared a dividend of  12	 percentum	free  of income-tax, the workmen were  getting	muchless than the living wage and the dearness allowance was notsufficient to fill the gap, and, therefore, profit bonus  atthe rate of four months' basic wages should be granted.	 Thecompany,  on  the other hand, contended that it	 was  payinggraded	scale of wages with annual and	biennial  incrementsand had already paid profit bonus for 2-1/2 months.  It	 wasnot possible for the company to pay more than that as bonus,as the available surplus according to the Full Bench formuladid not justify it.  It was also pointed out that though thecompany started as far back as 1917, the shareholders  beganto get dividends only from 1940, and, therefore, a  dividendof 12 per centum free of income-tax was in the circumstancesnot   high.   The  company  also  claimed  that	 in   makingcalculations  for  the purposes of the	Full  Bench  formulacertain items of extraneous income should not be taken	intoaccount.   Next	 it  claimed that a profit  of	Rs.  3	lacsappearing in the accounts due to the change in the method ofvaluation  was no real profit due to the efforts  of  labourand  should  not be taken into account in  arriving  at	 theavailable  surplus.   Lastly, it also claimed  that  it	 wasentitled  to 4 per centum interest on the  working  capital,including the amount in the depreciation fund.The Industrial Tribunal disallowed the claim of the  companyon  all	 these	three  points  and  after  making   relevantcalculations  came  to	the  conclusion	 that  there  was  asufficient  surplus available to permit the grant  of  bonusfor  3-1/2  months calculated on basic wages  and  thereforeawarded the same.  The company thereupon applied for specialleave  to  appeal, which was granted; and that	is  how	 thematter has now come up before us for decision.We shall first take the question of extraneous income.	 Sixitems  were  sought  to	 be  excluded  by  the	company	  asextraneous income, and they were these:4					   In lacs					     Rs.(i)  Income earned by way of rent, light and power.....0-24(ii)Estate Revenue....				       0-08(iii) Profit on sale of empty barrels		       0-89(iv) Excess provision for expenses in the previous year					       0-31(V)  Refund of income-tax on revision ofCochin assessment of Excess Profits Tax		       0-49(vi) Sale proceeds of tin cans, scraps, logs,planks, gunnies &c.				       2-11				      Total	       4-12The  Tribunal rejected the claim with respect to  all  theseitems,	though in the judgment it mentioned only items	(i),(ii), (iii) and (vi) as those in dispute.  Apparently, items(iv) and (v) were not in dispute before it; but while makingcalculations,  it  seems  to have lost	sight  of  this	 anddisallowed  the claim with respect to these two items  also.Learned counsel for the respondents appearing before us	 hasstated that the claim with respect to items (iv) and (v) wasconceded  by  the workmen before the Tribunal and  it  seemsthat by over-sight these items were not excluded by it.	  Hefairly	concedes that these two items may be  excluded	fromconsideration  in  making calculations for arriving  at	 theavailable surplus.  We are thus left with four items,  whichwere  disallowed by the Tribunal.  The reason given  by	 theTribunal  for disallowing these items was that	they  formedpart  of the profits earned in the course of  the  company'sbusiness  and  there was no good reason for  deducting	themfrom the profits.  It further went on to say that as regardsincome	earned	by way of rent, light and power it  was	 notdisputed that expenditure in respect of buildings from whichthe rent was derived, such as on repairs and maintenance, isincluded  in the expenditure side of the account, and  taxesand  rates  for these buildings were paid  by  the  company.There was thus no reason for deducting this amount from	 theprofits.  It did not consider the5other  three items specifically and was content	 to  includethem on the general ground that they were profits earned  inthe course of the company's business.Mr.  Daphtary  appearing  for  the  company  has  drawn	 ourattention  to  a  number  of  cases  decided  by  industrialtribunals as well as labour appellate tribunals, where	suchitems  of income have been excluded on the ground that	theyare  extraneous	 income	 unrelated to  the  efforts  of	 theworkmen.  We do not think it necessary to refer to all thesedecisions  and it is sufficient to say that these  decisionssupport	 the contention put forward.  The main reason  givenin  these  decisions  for  excluding  what,  is	 termed	  asextraneous income is that they are unrelated to the  effortsof workmen.  We may refer only to two of these decisions  ofthe  labour appellate tribunal in this connection.   In	 TheMill-Owners'  Association,  Bombay  v.	The  Rashtriya	MillMazdoor	 Sangh, Bombay (1) in which the Full  Bench  formulawas evolved, the appellate tribunal remarked at page 1257:" No scheme of allocation of bonus could be complete if	 theamount	out of which a bonus is to be paid is  unrelated  toemployees' efforts."The  Appellate	Tribunal reiterated this  in  Shalimar	RopeWorks Mazdoor Union, Howrah v. Messrs.	Shalimar Rope  WorksLtd., Shalimar, Howah (2) by observing at page 372 that " itis  however  too late in the day to question the  view	thatthere are profits unrelated to workers' efforts and referredto  as	'extraneous profits' and that such profits  must  beleft  out of account in deciding the question whether  thereis  available  surplus	in  any	 particular  year."   Incomereceived  by way of rent of quarters and by sale  of  scrap-materials has generally been treated as extraneous income bythe industrial tribunals on the basis of these decisions  ofthe  Labour  Appellate Tribunal.  It is the  correctness  ofthis view which has been canvassed before as in this appeal.Reliance  has  also  been placed by some  tribunals  on	 thedecision of this Court in Muir Mills Co. Ltd. v. Suti  MillsMazdoor(1) 1950 L.L.J. 1247.(2) 1956 (11) L.L.J. 371.6Union, Kanpur (1), in this connection.	This Court ,observedat page 998 as follows:"There are however two conditions which have to be satisfiedbefore	a demand for bonus can be justified, and  they	are,(1) when wages fall short of the living standard and (2) theindustry  makes	 huge profits part of which are due  to	 thecontribution   which   the  workmen   make   in	  increasingproduction."It was further observed at page 999-"It is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be  madeby  the	 employees  only  if  as  a  result  of	 the   jointcontribution  of capital and labour the	 industrial  concernhas  earned profits.  If in any particular year the  workingof  the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is  nobasis nor justification for a demand for bonus."It is clear from these observations that this Court was	 notdealing	 with the question of extraneous income as  such  inthe  Muir Mills Case (1).  The principles laid down in	thatcase show that there must be profits in the particular	yearfor  which  bonus  is claimed,	resulting  in  an  availablesurplus before profit bonus can be awarded.  It is only whenprofits	 are made that profit bonus can be awarded,  subjectto  two further conditions, namely, (1) wages fall short  ofthe living standard and (2) the industry makes large profitspart of which are due to the contribution which the  workmenmake _in production.  It is this last condition which  seemsto have been relied upon by industrial tribunals in  holdingthat there must be direct connection between the efforts  oflabour and the profits, and unless that direct connection isestablished the profits must be treated as unrelated to	 theefforts of labour and thus become extraneous income.   Thereis  no doubt that there must be contribution of the  workmenin earning profits before they are entitled to profit bonus;but  it	 was not laid down in the Muir Mills Case  (1)	thatdirect connection between the efforts of the workmen and theparticular item of profit earned must be established  beforethe  profit  can be taken into account for the	purposes  ofarriving at the available(1)..1955 (1) S.C.R. 991.7surplus.   An  industrial  concern  carries  on	 a   certainbusiness.  In carrying on that business it employs.  capitalas well as labour, and generally speaking the profits earnedin the normal course of business at the end of year are	 theresult of the joint effort of capital and labour.  Even	 so,it  may	 be  recognized	 that  there  may  be  instances  ofextraneous income for the purpose  of the Full Bench formuladue (i) either to some part   of the profits not having beenearned in that year, (ii)     or  to  some part	 of  profitsarising	  out	of   fortuitous	  circumstances	  altogetherunconnected  with the efforts of labour.  A  third  categorymay  be the income arising out of sale of fixed	 or  capitalassets.	  Such	income or profit may  be  called  extraneousincome	as  either it did not really arise in that  year  orthough	 it  has  arisen  in  that  year,  labour  has	 notcontributed  anything towards its accrual; it may  thereforenot  be taken into account in calculations according to	 theFull  Bench formula.  But apart from these cases, we  cannotsee how income arising during the year in the normal  courseof  business of the concern can be called extraneous  incomemerely	on the ground that no direct connection between	 theefforts	 of  labour and the accrual of the income  has	beenestablished.   In this very case we find an instance of	 thefirst  category	 in two items relating to return  of  excessprovision  for	expenses and refund of excess  profits	tax.These  two  amounts have gone to swell the profits  of	thisyear; but they have not arisen in this year and may,  there-fore, properly be treated as extraneous income.	 An instanceof  the	 second kind is to be found in the profit of  Rs.  3lacs  made  in	this  year by a	 change	 in  the  method  ofvaluation  of  the  company's  assets,	which  is   entirelyunconnected  with the efforts of labour.  But so far as	 theother  four  items  are concerned, they are  earned  by	 thecompany in the normal course Of its business and there is noreason why they should be excluded on the ground that it hasnot  been proved that they are the result of direct  effortsof, labour in this year.Let  us take these four items one by one.  The first is	 theitem of income earned by way of rent, light and8power.	 It  is	 well known that  many	industrial  concernsprovide	 amenities for their workmen by	 building  quarters,which  are provided with light and power from the  concern'spower house.  The quarters and power-house are built out  ofcapital or profits earned in past years.  If they are  builtout  of	 capital, there is provision for a return  which  isgenerally  at 6 per centum on the paid-up capital.  Even  ifthey  are  built out of past profits, the  depreciation	 andrehabilitation charges fall on the gross profits before	 theavailable surplus is arrived at.  Besides, expenditure	withregard	to repairs and maintenance, and rates and  taxes  isall  paid out of the income of the concern before the  grossprofits	 are arrived at.  In other words these expenses	 arepaid out of the profits in the earning of which the  workmenhave contributed their labour.	How can the company claim toexclude	 the rent etc., from the profits while	meeting	 theexpenditure relating to such assets out of the profits, partof  which  is  attributable to the efforts of  labour  ?  Inshort, income by way of rent, light and power arises in	 thenormal	course	of business of the concern and there  is  noreason	why a direct contribution by labour during the	yearin  question  must  be insisted upon in	 the  case  of	suchincome.	 The company must also be employing some labour	 forpurposes  of  maintenance and repairs of  the  quarters	 andpowerhouse,  even  though  the	labour	may  not  be  whollyallocated to this work only.  We are, therefore, of  opinionthat income from rent, light and power arises in the  normalcourse	of  business of a concern and cannot be	 treated  asextraneous income in the sense described above.The  next  item	 is estate revenue.  We are  told  that	 thecompany	 has coconut groves, which produce coconuts used  inpreparing  oil	which  is  one of  the	main  items  of	 thecompany's  business.   We are also told that  sometimes	 theentire	 produce  of  these  groves  is	 not  used  in	 themanufacture of oil and therefore some part of the produce issold.	This income is out of this part sold in the  market.Here  again  the  income  arises in  the  normal  course  ofbusiness and the expenses for looking after and	 maintainingthe groves are paid			     9by  the company and entered into its account.	The  companymust also be employing labour to look after the groves.	  Inthese circumstances. we fail to see why this income by	saleof surplus coconuts should be excluded from the profits	 forthe purpose of the Full Bench formula.Then we come to the profit on sale of empty barrels and saleproceeds  of  tin cans, scraps, logs, planks,  gunnies	etc.These  items  may be taken together, for the nature  of	 thereceipt	 is  the same, though on account of  the  method  ofaccounting  employed, the income in the case of	 barrels  isshown  as  profit while in the case of scraps  etc.,  it  isshown  as sale proceeds: It is said that this is  extraneousincome because it is unrelated to the efforts of labour.  Wecannot	accept this contention, for this income again is  inthe  normal  course of business.  Further when	the  companybuys  chemicals (for example), it pays for the chemicals  aswell  as  the  containers, namely, the	barrels.   When	 thechemicals  are	used  up  these	 empty	barrels	 are   sold.Whatever is the income from the sale of these barrels is  inreality	 a reduction in the cost price of chemicals  to	 thecompany, though by the method of accounting employed it	 mayappear	as profit on the sale of barrels.  We see no  reasonwhy  the reduction in cost price of chemicals should not  betaken  into  account for the purpose of	 arriving  at  grossprofits	 in making calculations for the Full Bench  formula.Some  scraps  are  normally  left over	in  the	 process  ofmanufacture.   Whatever income is derived from	such  scrapsalso  goes  to reduce the cost price of	 materials  used  inproduction and thus-to increase the profits.  We do not see:why  this  income  arising  in	the  normal  course  of	 thecompany's  business should not be taken into account on	 theplea  that  labour  has not,  directly	contributed  in	 itsaccrual.   We are, therefor, of opinion that all these	fouritems  were  rightly taken into account by the	Tribunal  inarriving at the gross. profits.Then we come to the profit of Rs. 3 lacs made by a change inthe method of accounting.  The Tribunal did not accept	thisincome	as  extraneous and in so doing it fell	into  error.This income of Rs. 3 lacs has10nothing	 whatsoever to do with the efforts of  labour,	eventhough	it  has arisen this year.  It has arisen  out  of  afortuitous  circumstance inasmuch as this year there  was  achange in the basis of valuation of stock.  It is not incomein  the normal course of business, because it is not  likelyto  arise ever again.  In the circumstances this  income  ofRs. 3 lacs must be treated as extraneous income and excludedfor  the  purpose of calculations based on  the	 Full  Benchformula.The  last item with which we are concerned is the return  onthe amount of depreciation reserve\ used as working capital.An  affidavit was made on behalf of the company that it	 hadused  its  reserve  funds  comprising  premium	on  ordinaryshares,	 general  reserve, depreciation	 reserve,  workmen'scompensation  reserve, employees' gratuity reserve, bad	 anddoubtful  debt	reserves  and  sales  promotion	 reserve  asworking capital.  The Tribunal, however, allowed return at 4per  centum  on a working capital of Rs. 31.88	lacs.	Thisexcluded  the  depreciation reserve but included  all  otherreserves  which were claimed by the company and having	beenused  for working capital.  The Tribunal gave no reason	 whyit  excluded  the  amount of  the  depreciation	 reserve  inarriving  at  the figure of working capital.   A  return  isallowed	 on  the  reserves used as working  capital  on	 theground that if these reserves are not used for this purpose,the  concern would have to borrow money and pay interest  onthat.	This being the basis on which a return	on  reservesused as working capital is allowed, there is no reason	why,if  there  is in fact money available  in  the	depreciationreserve	 and if that money is actually used during the	yearas  working capital, a return should not be allowed on	suchmoney  also.  Further if the money has been  converted	intosuch assets as stock in trade and stores etc., (i.e.,  otherthan  capital  or  fixed  assets),  it	will  be   obviouslyavailable  from	 year  to year to  that	 extent	 as  workingcapital subject to adjustments on account of loans,  securedor otherwise.  Learned counsel for the respondents wanted tocontest	 that the whole amount in the  depreciation  reservewas not available for being used as working capital.  It  isenough to say that the11affidavit  of  the Chief Accountant filed on behalf  of	 thecompany was not challenged before the Industrial Tribunal onbehalf	 of  the  respondents.	 It  would,  therefore,	  beimpossible   for  us  now  to  over-look   that	  affidavit,particularly when the Tribunal gave no reason why it treatedthe  working  capital  as  Rs.	31.88  lacs  only.   So	 fartherefore  as the present year is concerned, we must  acceptthe  affidavit	and hold that the working  capital  was	 Rs.139.09	lacs.  It will, however, be open to the	 workmen  infuture to show by proper cross-examination of the  company'switnesses or by proper evidence that the amount shown as thedepreciation  reserve was not available in whole or in	partto  be	used  as working capital and that  whatever  may  beavailable  was	not in fact so used in the  sense  explainedabove.	 In the present appeal, however, we must accept	 theaffidavit  of the Chief Accountant.  The Tribunal allowed  4per centum interest on the working capital and that must  beallowed on the total sum of Rs. 139-09 lacs.We now come to the calculations in accordance with the	FullBench formula, subject to what we have said above:			       Rs. in lacs	Rs. in lacsProfit for the year.				 15-53Add provision for -(i) tax...				14-51(ii) depreciation			119-75(iii) bonus....				 7-76	  34-02Gross Profits.					  49-55Less extraneous income				   3-80	      Balance....			  45-75     Less notional normal depreciation		11-12     Balance...					  34-63     Less income-tax payable according to     Meenakshi Mills case (1) (Per Note A     Below)....					  15-90     Balance...					  18-7312				     Rs. in lacs Rs. in lacsLess dividend on paid-up		     5-54     capitalLess return on Reserves used		     5-56     as working capital of Rs.     139-09 @ Rs. 4 per cent.			     11-10     Available surplus				      7-63Less bonus actually paid		      7-90Less rebate of income-tax at		      3-40     -/7/- in the rupee..			       4-50Amount remaining with the Company.....		       3-13     Note A.			   Rs. in lacsGross Profits			       49-55Less total statutory     depreciation		       13-19      Balance......		       36-36Income-tax at -/7/-in		       15-90     a rupeeThe  available surplus of profit thus works out at Rs.	7-63lacs.	The  company has, already paid 2-1/2  months'  bonusamounting  to  Rs. 7-90 lacs to the  workmen.	The  companywould  be entitled to a rebate of Rs. 3-40 lacs on this	 sumand  therefore the-amount which the company has actually  topay  is	 Rs. 4-50 lacs.	 This will leave a sum of  Rs.	3-13lacs  out of the available surplus with the company for	 itsuse.   It  will be seen that more than	half  the  availablesurplus	 has  already gone to labour according to  what	 thecompany has paid.  There are three sharers in the  availablesurplus, namely, the industry, share-holders and labour.  Inthe  circumstances no case has been made out for  increasingthe  profit bonus beyond what the company has already  paid,particularly  when we find that the company has	 claimed  norehabilitation	charges in this year.  We, therefore,  allowthe  appeal, set aside the order of the Industrial  Tribunaland dismiss the claim of the workmen for any bonus  13beyond what has already been granted by the company.  In theparticular circumstances of this case, we order the  partiesto bear their own costs.		      Appeal allowed.