PETITIONER:WORKMEN OF DIMAKUCHI TEA ESTATE	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE MANAGEMENT OF DIMAKUCHITEA ESTATEDATE OF JUDGMENT:04/02/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  353		  1958 SCR 1156ACT:     Industrial Dispute-Definition, lnterpretation  of-Test-'Any person', Meaning of-Industrial Disputes Act, 1947	(ActXIV of 1947),S. 2(k).HEADNOTE:    The	 question for decision in this appeal was whether  adispute raised by the workmen' relating to a person who	 wasnot  a workman could be an industrial dispute as defined  byS.  2(k) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as  it  stoodbefore the amendments Of 1956.	The appellants, who were theworkmen	 of Dimakuchi Tea Estate, espoused the cause of	 oneDr. K. P. Banerjee, Assistant Medical Officer, who had	beendismissed  unheard with a month's salary in lieu  of  noticebut  who had accepted such payment and left the	 garden	 andthe dispute raised was ultimately referred by the Governmentfor adjudication under s. 10 of the Act.  Both the  Tribunaland the Appellate Industrial Tribunal took the view that  asDr.  Banerjee was not an workman within the meaning  of	 theAct,  the, dispute was not an industrial dispute as  definedby S. 2(k):    Held,  (per Das, C. J., and S. K. Das, J.,	Sarkar,	 J.,dissenting),  that the expression 'any person' occurring  inS.  2(k)  of the Industrial Disputes Act,  1947,  cannot  begiven  its ordinary meaning and must be read and  understoodin the context of the Act and the object the Legislature hadin  view.   Nor	 can  it be equated  either  with  the	word'workman' or 'employee'.   The two tests of an industrial dispute as defined by	 thesection must, therefore, be,-(1) the dispute must be a	realdispute,  capable  of being settled by relief given  by	 oneparty  to the other, and (2) the person in respect  of	whomthe dispute is raised must be one in whose employment,	non-employment, terms of employment, or conditions of labour (asthe  case may be), the parties to the dispute have a  director  substantial interest, and this must depend on the  factsand circumstances of each particular case.    Applying  these tests, the dispute in the  present	casewhich  was in respect of a person who was not a workman	 andbelonged  to a different category altogether, could  not  besaid  to be a dispute within the meaning of S. 2(k)  of	 theAct and the appeal must fail.     Narendra  Kumar  Sen v. All India	Industrial  Disputes(Labour	 Appellate)  Tribunal,	(1953) 55  Bom.	  L.R.	125,approved.     Western India Automobile Association v. The  IndustrialTribunal, Bombay, [1949] F.C.R 321, distinguished			    1157   Case-law discussed.   Per	Sarkar,	 J.-There is no reason why  the	 words	'anyperson'	 in  s. 2(k) of the Act should not  be	given  theirnatural	 meaning so as to include an employee who is  not  aworkman	 within	 the meaning of the  Act.   Consequently,  adispute	 concerning a person who is not a workman may be  anindustrial dispute within that section.   The	primary	 object	 which the Act has in  view  is	 thepreservation of the industrial peace.   The Act does not make the interest of the workmen in	 thedispute	 a  condition  of the  existence  of  an  industrialdispute.   Such interest is incapable of definition  and  tomake  it a condition of an industrial dispute  would  defeatthe object of the Act.   Western  India Automobile Association v.  The  IndustrialTribunal of Bombay, [1949] F.C.R. 321; Narendra Kumar Sen v.The   All  India  Industrial  Disputes	(Labour	  Appellate)Tribunal,  (1953)  55 Bom.  L.R. I25 and  United  CommercialBank Ltd. v. Kedar Nath Gupta, (1952) 1 L.L.J. 782, referredto.   Even	 assuming  that the workmen must  be  interested  inorder  that there can be an industrial dispute, the  presentcase satisfies that test and falls within the purview of  s.2(k) of the Act.JUDGMENT:    CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  297  of1956.    Appeal  by	special leave from the	judgment  and  orderdated  August 30, 1955, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal  ofIndia, Calcutta in Appeal No. Cal. 220 of 1954.    C.	  B. Aggarwala and K. P. Gupta, for the appellants.    Purshottam	Tricumdas  for	N.  C.	Chatterjee,  P.	  K.Goswami, S. N. Mukheree and B. N. Ghosh, for the respondent.    1958.  February 4. The Judgment of Das, C. J., and S. K.Das J., was delivered by S. K. Das, J. Sarkar, J., delivereda separate Judgment.    S.	  K.  DAS J.-This appeal by special leave  raises  aquestion  of some nicety and of considerable  importance  inthe  matter  of industrial relations in this  country.	 Thequestion  is  the true scope and effect	 of  the  definitionclause	in  s. 2 (k) of the Industrial	Disputes  Act,	1947(hereinafter  referred	to as the Act).	  The  question	 hasarisen in the following circumstances.1158   The appellants before us are the workmen of the Dimakuchitea estate represented by the Assam Chah Karmachari  Sangha,Dibrugarh.    The  respondent  is  the	management  of	 theDimakuchi tea estate, district Darrang in Assam.  One Dr. K.P.  Banerjee was appointed assistant medical officer of	 theDimakuchi tea estate with effect from November 1, 1950.	  Hewas  appointed subject to a satisfactory medical report	 andon probation for three months.	It was stated in his  letterof appointment: " While you are on probation or trial,	yoursuitability for permanent employment will be considered.  Ifduring the period of probation you are considered unsuitablefor  employment,  you -",ill receive seven days'  notice  inwriting terminating your appointment.  If you are guilty  ofmisconduct, you are liable to instant dismissal.  At the endof the period of probation, if you are considered  suitable,you will be confirmed in the garden's service." In  February1951  Dr.  Banerjee  was given an increment  of	 Rs.  5	 permensem, but on April 21, Dr. Banerjee received a letter fromone  Mr. Booth, manager of the tea estate, in which  it	 wasstated	:  " It has been found necessary to  terminate	yourservices  with effect from the 22nd instant.  You  will	 of'course receive one month's salary in lieu of notice." As  noreasons	 were  given  in  the  notice  of  termination,	 Dr.Banerjee  wrote to the manager to find out why his  serviceswere  being  terminated.  To this Dr.  Banerjee	 received  areply to this effect The reasons for 'your discharge are  onthe  medical side, which are outside my	 jurisdiction,	bestknown  to  Dr.	Cox  but a main reason	is  because  of	 thedeceitful   manner  in	which  you  added  figures  to	 therequirements  of the last medical indent after it  had	beensigned by Dr, Cox, evidence of which is in my hands."    The	 cause	of  Dr. Banerjee was then  espoused  by	 theMangaldai Circle of the Assam Chah Karmachari Sangha and thesecretary  of  that  Sangha  wrote to  the  manager  of	 theDimakuchi  tea estate, enquiring about the reasons  for	 Dr.Banerjee's  discharge.	The manager wrote back to  say	thatDr.- K. P. Banerjee was discharged on the ground			    1159of incompetence in his medical duties and the chief  medicalofficer	  (Dr.	 Cox)  had  found  that	 Dr.  Banerjee	 wasincompetent  and  did  not have sufficient  "  knowledge  ofsimple	everyday  microscopical and  laboratory	 work  whichbefalls	 the lot of every assistant medical officer  in	 teagarden	practice." It was further stated that  Dr.  Banerjeegave a faulty, inexpert and clumsy quinine injection to	 oneMr.  Peacock,  and assistant in the  Dimakuchi	tea  estate,which  produced an extremely acute and severe  illness	verynearly	causing	 a  paralysis of  the  patient's  leg.	 Thereasons	 given	by the manager for the	termination  of	 theservices  of  Dr.  K.  P.  Banerjee  did  not  satisfy	 theappellants  herein  and	 certain  conciliation	proceedings,details	 whereof  are not necessary for	 our  purpose,	were-unsuccessfully held over the question of the termination ofthe  service of Dr. Banerjee.  The matter was then  referredto   a	Board  known  as  the  tripartite  Appellate   Boardconsisting  of	the  Labour  Commissioner,  Assam,  and	 tworepresentatives	 of  the  Assam branch	of  the	 Indian	 TeaAssociation   and   the	  Assam	  Chah	 Karmachari   Sangharespectively.	This  Board recommended	 that  Dr.  Banerjeeshould	be  reinstated	with effect from  the  date  of	 hisdischarge.   After  the	 recommendation of  the	 Board,	 therespondent herein appears to have offered a sum equal to  28month's salary and allowances in lieu of re-instatement;  tothis,  however,	 the  appellants  did  not  agree.   In	 themeantime,  Dr. K. P. Banerjee received a sum of Rs.  306-1-0on May 22, 1951 and left the tea garden in question.   Then,on  December 23, 1953, the Government of Assam	published  anotification  in  which	 it  was  stated  that	whereas	  anindustrial dispute had arisen between the appellants and therespondent  herein  and whereas it was	expedient  that	 thedispute	 should be referred for adjudication to	 a  Tribunalconstituted under s. 7 of the Act, the Governor of Assam waspleased	 to  refer  the	 dispute  to  Shri  U.	K.   Gohain,Additional  District  and Sessions Judge, under cl.  (c)  ofsub-s. (1) of s. 10 of the Act.	 The dispute which was	thusreferred to the Tribunal was described in these terms:1160    " (i) Whether the management of Dimakuchi Tea Estate wasjustified in dismissing Dr. K. P. Banerjee, A. M. O.?      (ii)     If  not, is he entitled to  reinstatement  orany other relief in lieu thereof ?"   Both	 parties filed written statements before  Mr.  ohainand the respondent took the plea that Dr. K. P. Banerjee wasnot  a "workman" within the meaning of the  Act;  therefore,there  was no industrial dispute in the sense in which	thatexpression  was defined in the Act and the Tribunal  had  nojurisdiction to make an adjudication on merits.	 Mr.  Gohaintook up as a preliminary point the question if Dr.  Banerjeewas a " workman " within the meaning of the Act and came  toa conclusion which may be best expressed in his own words:   "Dr.	  Banerjee being not a ' workman', his case  is	 notone  of	 an  " industrial dispute  "  under  the  IndustrialDisputes   Act	and  his  case	is  therefore	beyond	 thejurisdiction of this Tribunal and the Tribunal has thereforeno jurisdiction to give any relief to him."   There was then an appeal to the Labour Appellate Tribunalof  India, Calcutta.  That Tribunal affirmed the finding  ofMr. Gohain to the effect that Dr. Banerjee was not a workmanwithin the meaning of the Act.	The Appellate Tribunal	thensaid:    " A dispute between the employers and employees to be anindustrial  dispute within the meaning of section 2  (k)  ofthe  Industrial Disputes Act, must be between the  employersand  the  workmen.  There cannot be any	 industrial  disputebetween	 the  employers	 and  the  employees  who  are	 notworkmen."    The	 appeal	 was  accordingly dismissed  by	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal.  The appellants herein then moved	thisCourt  for  special leave and by an order  dated  March	 14,1956,  special leave was granted, but was " limited  to	 thequestion  whether a dispute in relation to a person  who  isnot  a workman falls within the scope of the  definition  ofindustrial  dispute contained in s. 2 (k) of the  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947."    It is clear from what has been stated above that the			    1161question  whether Dr. K. P. Banerjee is or is not a  workmanwithin	the  meaning  of the Act is no longer  open  to	 theparties	 and we must proceed on the footing that Dr.  K.  P.Banerjee was not a workman within the meaning of the Act andthen  decide the question if the dispute in relation to	 thetermination  of his service still fell within the  scope  ofthe  definition of the expression " industrial dispute "  inthe Act.   We  proceed	now  to	 read  the  definition	clause	 theinterpretation	of  which is the only  question	 before	 us.That definition clause is in these terms:   "  S. 2 (k) : " Industrial dispute" means any dispute  ordifference  between  employers	and  employers,	 or  betweenemployers and workmen, or between workmen and workmen, whichis  connected with the employment or non-employment  or	 theterms of employment or with the conditions of labour, of anyperson;"    It must be stated here that the expression " workman  isalso  defined  in  the	Act, and  the  definition  which  isrelevant  for  our  purpose  is	 the  one  previous  to	 theamendments  of	1956;  therefore,  in  reading	the  varioussections of the Act, we shall read them as they stood  priorto  the amendments of 1956 and refer to the amendments	onlywhen  they  have a bearing on the question before  us.	 Thedefinition  of	'workman' as it stood at the  relevant	timestated :   "  S.  2  (s):  " Workman "	means  any  person  employed(including an apprentice) in any industry to do any  skilledor unskilled manual or clerical work for hire or reward	 andincludes, for the purposes of any proceedings under this Actin  relation to an industrial dispute, a workman  dischargedduring	that  dispute,	but  does  not	include	 any  personemployed  in  the  naval, military or  air  service  of	 theGovernment.  "   Now,	 the question is whether a dispute in relation to  aperson	who is not a workman within the meaning of  the	 Actstill falls within the scope of the definition clause in  s.2 (k).	If we analyse the definition clause it falls  easilyand  naturally	into  three parts: first, there	 must  be  adispute	 or  difference; second, the dispute  or  differencemust   be  between  employers  and  employers,	or   betweenemployers and workmen or1162between	  workmen  and	workmen;  third,  the	dispute	  ordifference  must  be connected with the employment  or	non-employment or the terms of employment or with the conditionsof  labour, of any person.  The first part obviously  refersto  the factum of a real or substantial dispute; the  secondpart  to  the parties to the dispute; and the third  to	 thesubject	 matter	 of that dispute.  That subject	 matter	 mayrelate	to  any	 of  two  matters-(i)  employment  or	non-employment,  and (ii) terms of employment or  conditions  oflabour,	 of any person.	 On behalf of the appellants  it  iscontended  that the conditions referred to in the first	 andsecond parts of the definition clause are clearly  fulfilledin  the	 present  case,	 because  there	 is  a	dispute	  ordifference  over  the termination of service of	 Dr.  K.  P.Banerjee  and  the  dispute or	difference  is	between	 theemployer, namely, the management of the Dimakuchi tea estateon  one side, and its workmen on the other, even taking	 theexpression " workmen " in the restricted sense in which thatexpression  is	defined	 in the Act.   The  real  difficultyarises	when  we come to the third part	 of  the  definitionclause.	  Learned counsel for the appellants  has  submittedthat the expression " of any person " occurring in the thirdpart of the definition clause is an expression of very	wideimport	and there are no reasons why the words "any  person"should	be  equated with " any workman ", as  the  Tribunalsbelow  have  done.   The argument is that  inasmuch  as	 thedispute	 or difference between the employer and the  workmenis connected with the non-employment of a person called	 Dr.K.  P.	Banerjee  (even though he was not  a  workman),	 thedispute	 is an industrial dispute within the meaning of	 thedefinition  clause.   At first sight, it  does	appear	thatthere  is  considerable force in the  argument	advanced  onbehalf	of the appellants.  It is rightly pointed  out	thatthe  definition	 clause	 does  not  contain  any  words	  ofqualification or restriction in respect of the expression  "any person " occurring in the third part, and if any limita-tions  as to its scope are to be imposed, they must be	suchas  can	 be reasonably inferred from the  definition  clauseitself or other provisions of the Act.			    1163    A little careful consideration will show, however,	thatthe expression " any person " occuring in the third part  ofthe  definition clause cannot mean anybody and everybody  inthis  wide  world.   First of all,  the	 subject  matter  ofdispute	 must relate to (i) employment or non-employment  or(ii)  terms  of employment or conditions of  labour  of	 anyperson;	 these necessarily import a limitation in the  sensethat  a	 person	 in respect of	whom  the  employer-employeerelation never existed or can never possibly exist cannot bethe  subject  matter  of a  dispute  between  employers	 andworkmen.   Secondly, the definition clause must be  read  inthe context of the subject matter and scheme of the Act, andconsistently  with the objects and other provision's of	 theAct.  It is well settled that " the words of a statute, whenthere is a doubt about their meaning are to be understood inthe  sense in which they best harmonise with the subject  ofthe  enactment and the object which the Legislature  has  inview.	Their  meaning is found not so much  in	 a  strictlygrammatical or etymological propriety of language, nor	evenin its popular use, as in the subject or in the occasion  onwhich  they  are  used,	 and the  object  to  be  attained."(Maxwell, Interpretation of Statutes, 9th Edition, p. 55).   It  is necessary, therefore, to take the Act as  a  wholeand  examine its salient provisions.  The long	title  showsthat  the object of the Act is " to make provision  for	 theinvestigation and settlement of industrial disputes, and forcertain	 other	purposes.  " The preamble  states  the	sameobject and s. 2 of the Act which contains definitions statesthat  unless there is anything repugnant in the	 subject  orcontext,  certain  expressions will have  certain  meanings.Chapter	 11 refers to the authorities set up under the	Act,such as, Works Committees, Conciliation officers, Boards  ofConciliation,  Courts of Enquiry, and Industrial  Tribunals.The primary duty of a Works Committee is to promote measuresfor securing and preserving amity and good relations betweenthe  employer and his workmen and, to that end,	 to  commentupon matters of their common1481164interest  or concern and endeavour to compose  any  materialdifference   of	  opinion  in  respect	of   such   matters.Conciliation Officers are charged with the duty of mediatingin  and promoting the settlement of industrial disputes.   ABoard  of Conciliation may also be constituted for the	samepurpose,   namely,  for	 promoting  the	 settlement  of	  anindustrial dispute.  A Court of Enquiry may be appointed forenquiring into any matter which appears to be connected withor relevant to an industrial dispute.  Section 7 of the	 Actempowers the appropiate Government to constitute one or moreTribunals  for	the adjudication of industrial	disputes  inaccordance  with  the provisions of the	 Act.	Chapter	 IIIcontains provisions relating to the reference of  industrialdisputes  to  Boards of Conciliation, Courts of	 Enquiry  orIndustrial Tribunals, and the reference in the present	casewas made under s. 10 of that Chapter.  Under s. 10(c) of theAct  where an appropriate Government is of opinion that	 anyindustrial disputes exist or are apprehended, it may, at anytime,  by order in writing, refer the dispute or any  matterappearing to be connected with or relevant to the dispute toa  Tribunal for adjudication.  Chapter IV of the  Act  dealswith procedure, powers and duties of the authorities set  upunder  the  Act.   Where  an  industrial  dispute  has	beenreferred to a Tribunal for adjudication, s. 15 requires thatthe  Tribunal shall hold its proceedings  expeditiously	 andshall  as  soon	 as practicable on  the	 conclusion  thereofsubmit its award to the appropriate Government.	 Section  17lays  down  inter alia that the award of  a  Tribunal  shallwithin a period of one month from the date of its receipt bythe appropriate Government be published in such manner as itthinks	fit.   Section 17-A lays down that the	award  of  aTribunal  shall become enforceable on the expiry  of  thirtydays  from the date of its publication under s. 17; it	alsocontains   certain  other  provisions  which   empower	 theappropriate  Government	 to  modify  or	 reject	 the  award.Section 18 is important for our purpose, and in so far as itrelates	 to awards it states that an award which has  becomeenforceable ,shall be binding on-			    1165   (a)	  all parties to the industrial dispute;   (b)	  all  other  parties  summoned	 to  appear  in	 theproceedings  as parties to the dispute, unless the  Tribunalrecords	 the  opinion  that they were  so  summoned  withoutproper cause;   (c)	  where	 a  party referred to under  clause  (a)  orclause (b) is an employer, his heirs, successors or  assignsin  respect  of	 the  establishment  to	 which	the  disputerelates; and   (d)	  where a party referred to in clause (a) or clause(b)  is composed of workmen, all persons who are employed inthe  establishment or part of establishment as the case	 maybe, to which the dispute relates on the date of the  disputeand  all  persons who subsequently become employed  in	thatestablishment or part.Section 19 lays down the period of operation of	 settlementsand  awards  and  states inter alia  that  an  award  shall,subject	 to  the  provisions  of  the  section,	 remain	  inoperation  for a period of one year.  Chapter V of  the	 Actdeals  with strikes and lock-outs, Chapter V-A with  lay-offand retrenchment, Chapter VI with penalties and Chapter	 VIIwith  miscellaneous matters.  It is important to  note	thatthough in the definition of "lock-out", s. 2 (1) of the Act,and  "strike",	s.  2 (q) of the  Act,	the  expression	 anyperson' has been used, in ss. 22 (2) and 23 of the Act whichdeal  with "lock-out" and "strike", only the word  'workmen'has been used.	Section 33 provides that during the pendencyof any conciliation proceedings or any proceedings before  atribunal  of any industrial dispute, no employer  shall	 (a)alter  to  the	prejudice  of  the  workmen  concerned,	 theconditions of their service etc. or (b) discharge or  punishby  dismissal  or  otherwise any workman  concerned  in	 thedispute.   Section 33 A, however, uses the word	 'employee',but  read  with s. 33, the word employee must mean  there  aworkman.   Section  36 which deals  with  representation  ofparties	 has  some bearing on the question  before  us.	  Itlayns down that a workman who is a party to a dispute  shallbe  entitled to be represented in any proceeding  under	 theAct by-1166   (a)	  an officer of a registered trade union of which heis a member;   (b)	  an  officer  of a federation of  trade  unions  towhich  the  trade  union  referred  to	in  clause  (a)	  isaffiliated; and   (c) where the worker is not a member of any trade  union,by  an officer of any trade union connected with, or by	 anyother  workman employed in the industry in which the  workeris  employed  and  authorised  in  such	 manner	 as  may  beprescribed.An employer who is a party to a dispute shall be entitled tobe represented in any proceedings under the Act by-   (a)	  an officer of an association of employers of whichhe is a member;   (b)	  an  officer  of a federation	of  associations  ofemployers to which the association referred to in clause (a)is affiliated; and   (c)	  where	 the  employer	is  not	 a  member  of	 anyassociation  of employers, by an officer of any	 associationof  employers  connected  with, or  by	any  other  employerengaged	 in, the industry in which the employer	 is  engagedand authorised in such manner as may be prescribed.Sub-section  (3) of s. 36 states that no party to a  disputeshall be entitled to be represented by a legal	practitionerin  any	 conciliation proceedings under the Act	 or  in	 anyproceedings before a court.  Sub-section (4) states that  inany proceeding before a Tribunal a party to a dispute may berepresented by a legal practitioner with the consent of	 theother  parties to the proceeding and with the leave  of	 theTribunal.  The point to note is that there is no  particularprovision  for	the representation of a party other  than  aworkman or an employer, presumably because under the  secondpart  of the definition clause the parties to an  industrialdispute	 can only be employers and employers, employers	 andworkmen, or workmen and workmen.    Thus,  an examination of the salient provisions  of	 theAct shows that the principal objects of the Act are-			    1167   (1)	  the	promotion  of  measures	 for  securing	 andpreserving amity and good relations between the employer andworkmen;   (2)	  an  investigation  and  settlement  of  industrialdisputes,  between  employers and employers,  employers	 andworkmen,   or	workmen	 and  workmen,	with  a	  right	  ofrepresentation by a registered trade union or federation  oftrade unions or association of employers or a federation  ofassociations of employers;   (3)	  prevention of illegal strikes and lock-outs;   (4)	  relief to workmen in the matter of lay-off andretrenchment; and   (5) collective bargaining.The  Act is primarily meant for regulating the relations  ofemployers and workmen-past, present and future.	 It draws  adistinction between 'workmen' as such and the managerial  orsupervisory staff, and confers benefit on the former only.    It is in the context of all these provisions of the	 Actthat the definition clause in s. 2(k) has to be interpreted.It  seems fairly obvious to us that if the  expression	"anyperson"	 is given its ordinary meaning, then the  definitionclause will be so wide as to become inconsistent not  merelywith  the objects and other provisions of the Act, but	alsowith  the other parts of that very clause.  Let us  see	 howthe definition clause works if the expression " any person "occurring  therein  is	given  its  ordinary  meaning.	 Theworkmen	 may then raise a dispute about a person  with	whomthey have no possible community of interest; they may -raisea  dispute  about  the employment of  a	 person	 in  anotherindustry  or  a different establishments  dispute  in  whichtheir own employer is not in a position to give any  relief,in  the matter of employment or non-employment or the  termsof employment or conditions of labour of such a person.	  Inorder  to make our meaning clear we may take a more  obviousexample.   Let us assume that for some reason or  other	 theworkmen of a particular industry raise a dispute with  theiremployer about the employment or terms of employment of	 theDistrict Magistrate or District1168Judge of the district in which the industry is situate.	  Itseems  clear  to us that though the District  Magistrate  orDistrict Judge undoubtedly comes within the expression " anyperson " occurring in the definition clause, a dispute abouthis employment or terms of  employment is not an  industrialdispute;  firstly,  because  such a dispute  does  not	comewithin the scope of the Act, having regard to the definitionof the words " employer" industry ", and " workman and	alsoto  other  provisions  of the Act;  secondly,  there  is  nopossible   community  of  interest  between   the   DistrictMagistrate  or	District  Judge	 on the	 one  hand  and	 thedisputants, employer and workmen, on the other.	 The  absurdresults	 that will follow such an interpretation  have	beenforcefully  expressed  by Chagla C. J., in his	decision  inNarendra Kumar Sen v. All India Industrial Disputes  (LabourAppellate) Tribunal (1):    "  If  "any person " were to be read  as  an  expressionwithout any limitation and qualification whatsoever, then wemust  not  put	even any  territorial  restriction  on	thatexpression.  In other words, it would be open to the workmennot  only  to raise a dispute with regard to  the  terms  ofemployment  of	persons	 employed in the  same	industry  asthemselves,  not only to raise a dispute with regard to	 theterms of employment in corresponding or similar	 industries,not only a dispute with regard to the terms of employment ofpeople employed in our country, but the terms of employmentof any	  workman or any labourer anywhere in the world Theproposition has only to be stated in order to make     onerealise how entirely untenable it is.   Take,  for example, another case where the workmen  raisean objection to the salary or remuneration paid to a Manageror  Chief  Medical  Officer  by	 the  employer	but  withoutclaiming any benefit for themselves, and let us assume	thata  dispute or difference arises between the workmen  on	 oneside  and the employer on the other over such an  objection.If such a dispute comes within the definition clause and  isreferred  to  an industrial tribunal for  adjudication,	 theparties to the(1)  (1953) 55 Bom.  L.R. 125,129, 130.			    1169dispute will be the employer on one side and his workmen  onthe other.  The Manager or the Chief Medical Officer  cannotobviously  be a party to the dispute, because he is  riot  a'workman'within	 the  meaning  of the Act and  there  is  nodispute	 between  him  and his	employer.   That  being	 theposition, the award, if any, 7 given by the Tribunal will bebinding,  under	 cl.  (a) of s. 18, on the  parties  to	 thedispute and not on the Manager or the Chief Medical Officer.It is extremely doubtful if in the circumstances stated	 theTribunal can summon the Manager or the Chief Medical Officeras  a  party  to the dispute, because there  is	 no  disputebetween the Manager or Chief Medical Officer on one side andhis  employer oil the other.  Furthermore, s. 36 of the	 Actdoes not provide for representation of a person who is not aparty  to the dispute.	If, therefore, an award is  made  bythe  Tribunal  in  the case which we have taken	 by  way  ofillustration,  that award, though binding on  the  employer,will not be binding on the Manager or Chief Medical Officer.It  should  be obvious that the Act could not  have  contem-plated	an eventuality of this kind, which does not  promoteany of the objects of the Act, but rather goes against them.    When  these	 difficulties were pointed  out	 to  learnedcounsel	  for	the  appellants,  he  conceded	 that	somelimitations must be put on the width of the expression " anyperson " occurring in the definition clause.  He  formulatedfour such limitations:    (1)	  The dispute must be a real and substantial one  inrespect of which one of the parties to the dispute can	giverelief	to  the other; e. g., when the	dispute	 is  betweenworkmen and employer, the employer must be in a position  togive  relief  to the workmen.  This,  according	 to  learnedcounsel	 for  the appellants, will exclude  those  cases  inwhich the workmen ask for something which their employer  isnot  in	 a  position to give.  It would	 also  exclude	mereideological differences or controversies.    (2)	  The  industrial dispute if raised by workmen	mustrelate	 to   the  particular  establishment  or   part	  ofestablishment in which the workmen are employed so1170that the definition clause may be consistent with s. 18of the Act.    (3)	  The  dispute must relate to the  employment,	non-employment or the terms of employment or with the conditionsof labour of any person, but such person must be an employeedischarged  or	in service or a	 candidate  for	 employment.According to learned counsel for the appellants, the  personabout  whom  the dispute has arisen need not  be  a  workmanwithin	the  meaning of the Act, but he must answer  to	 thedescription of an employee, discharged or in service, or acandidate for employment.    (4)	  The workmen raising the dispute must have a  nexuswith  the  dispute,  either  because  they  are	  personallyinterested  or	because	 they have taken  up  the  cause  ofanother	 person in the general interest of  labour  welfare.The  further argument of learned counsel for the  appellantsis that even imposing the aforesaid four limitations on	 thewidth  of  the expression " any person "  occurring  in	 thedefinition  clause,  the dispute in the present case  is  anindustrial  dispute  within the meaning of s. 2 (k)  of	 theAct,  because  (1)  the employer could give  relief  in	 thematter of the termination of service of Dr. K. P.  Banerjee,(2)  Dr. K. P. Banerjee belonged to the same  establishment,namely,	 the same tea garden, (3) the dispute related  to  adischarged  employee  (though  not a workman)  and  (4)	 theworkmen raising the dispute were vitally interested in it byreason of the fact that Dr. Banerjee (it is stated) belongedto  their  trade  union and the	 dismissal  of	an  employeewithout	 the formulation of a charge and without giving	 himan  opportunity to meet any charge was a matter	 of  generalinterest to all workmen in the same establishment.    We	now  propose  to examine the  question	whether	 thelimitations formulated by learned counsel for the appellantsare  the only true limitations to be imposed with regard  tothe  definition clause.	 In doing so we shall also  considerwhat  is the true scope and effect of the definition  clauseand what are the correct tests to be applied with regard  toit.   We think that there is no real difficulty with  regardto the first two limitations.			    1171They  are,  we	think, implicit	 in  the  definition  clauseitself.	 It is obvious that a dispute between employers	 andemployers,  employers  and workmen, or between	workmen	 andworkmen	 must  be a real dispute capable  of  settlement  oradjudication by directing one of the parties to the  disputeto give' necessary relief to the other.	 It is also  obviousthat the parties to the dispute must be directly or substan-tially	interested  therein,  so that  if  workmen  raise  adispute,  it  must relate to the establishment	or  part  ofestablishment  in which they are employed.  With  regard  tolimitation  (3),  while we agree that the expression  I	 anyperson ' cannot be completely equated with 'any workman'  asdefined in the Act, we think that the limitation  formulatedby  learned  counsel for the appellants is much	 too  widelystated	and is not quite correct.  We recognise that if	 theexpression  '  any person' means 'any workman '	 within	 themeaning	 of the Act, then it is difficult to understand	 whythe  Legislature  instead  of  using  the  expression	'anyworkman' used the much wider expression 'any person' in	 thethird part of the definition clause.  The very	circumstancethat  in  the  second  part of	the  definition	 clause	 theexpression  used  is  " between	 employers  and	 workmen  orbetween	 workmen and workmen " while in the third  part	 theexpression   used  is  "any  person"  indicates	  that	 theexpression "any person cannot be completely equated with'anyworkman'.   The reason for the use of the expression  "	 anyperson"	 in  the definition clause is, however, not  far  toseek.  The word 'workman' as defined in the Act (before	 theamendments  of	1956)  included, for  the  purposes  of	 anyproceedings  under  the	 Act in relation  to  an  industrialdispute,  a.  workman discharged during the  dispute..	Thisdefinition  corresponded  to  s.  2.(j)	 of  the  old  TradeDisputes  Act,	1929 except that the  words  ,,including  anapprentice  "  were  inserted and  the	words  "  industrialdispute " were substituted for the words " trade dispute  ".It  is worthy of note that in the Trade Disputes Act,  1929,the word 'workman' meant any person employed in any trade orindustry to doI491172any skilled or unskilled manual or clerical work for hire orreward.	  It  is clear enough that prior to  1956  when	 thedefinition  of ' workman' in the Act was further widened  toinclude	 a  person dismissed, discharged  or  retrenched  inconnection with, or as a consequence of the dispute or whosedismissal,  discharge or retrenchment led to the dispute,  aworkman	 who had been discharged earlier and not during	 thedispute was not a workman within the meaning of the Act.  Ifthe  expression	 "  any person " in the third  part  of	 thedefinition  clause  were to be strictly	 equated  with	'anyworkman',  then there could be no industrial dispute,  priorto  1956, with regard to a workman who had  been  dischargedearlier	 than the dispute, even though the discharge  itselfhad led to the dispute.	 That seems to be the reason why theLegislature  used the expression 'any person' in  the  thirdpart  of  the definition clause so as to put it	 beyond	 anydoubt  that the non-employment of such a  dismissed  workmanwas  also within the ambit of an industrial dispute.   Therewas  a wide gap between a 'workman' and an 'employee'  underthe definition of the word 'workman' in s. 2 (s) as it stoodprior to 1956; all existing workmen were no doubt employees;but  all employees were not workmen.  The supervisory  staffdid  not  come	within the definition.	 The  gap  has	beenreduced	 to some extent by the amendments of 1956;  part  ofthe  supervisory  staff (who draw wages not  exceeding	fivehundred	 rupees	 per mensem) and those	who  were  otherwiseworkmen	 but were discharged or dismissed earlier have	alsocome  within  the  definition.	 If  and  when	the  gap  iscompletely  bridged,  I	 workmen  will	be  synonymous	with'employees',  whether  engaged in any skilled  or  unskilledmanual,	 supervisory, technical or clerical work, etc.	 Buttill   the  gap	 is  completely	 obliterated,  there  is   adistinction   between  workmen	and  non-workmen  and	thatdistinction has an important bearing on the question  beforeus.  Limitation no. (3) as formulated by learned counsel forthe  appellants	 ignores  the  distinction  altogether	 andequates 'any person' with any employee'-past,			    1173present or future: this we do not think is quite correct  orconsistent  with the other provisions of the Act.   The	 Actavowedly  gives a restricted meaning to the word I  workman'and  almost  all the provisions of the Act are	intended  toconfer	benefits  on  that class of  persons  who  generallyanswer	to the description of workmen.	The expression	'anyperson'	 in the definition clause means, in our	 opinion,  aperson	in whose employment, or non-employment, or terms  ofemployment,  or conditions of labour the workmen as a  classhave  a direct or substantial interest-with whom they  have,under  the scheme of the Act, a community of interest.	 Ourreason	for  so holding is not merely that the Act  makes  adistinction  between workmen and non-workmen, but because  adispute	 to  be	 a real dispute must be	 one  in  which	 theparties	 to  the  dispute  have	 a  direct  or	 substantialinterest.   Can	 it  be said that workmen  as  a  class	 aredirectly or substantially interested in the employment, non-employment, terms of employment or conditions of lab our  ofpersons	 who belong to the supervisory staff and are,  underthe  provisions of the Act, non-workmen on whom the Act	 hasconferred no benefit, who cannot by themselves be parties toan  industrial dispute and for whose representation the	 Actmakes  no particular provision ?  We venture to	 think	thatthe  answer  must  be  in  the	negative.   Limitation	 (4)formulated by learned counsel for the appellants is also toogenerally stated.  We recognise that solidarity of labour orgeneral	 interest  of tabour welfare may  furnish,  in	somecases, the necessary nexus of direct or substantial interestin  a  dispute	between	 employers  and	 workmen,  but	 theprinciple  of solidarity of the labour movement	 or  generalwelfare	 of  labour must be based on or	 correlated  to	 theprinciple of community of interest; the workmen can raise  adispute	 in respect of those persons only in the  employmentor  non-employment  or	the  terms  of	employment  or	 theconditions  or	labour	of  whom  they	have  a	 direct	  orsubstantial interest.  We think that Chagla C. J., correctlyput  the crucial test when he said in Narendra Kumar Sen  v.All  India Industrial Disputes (Labour	Appellate)  Tribunal(1).(1)  (1953) 55 Bom.  L.R. 125,129, 130.1174    "  Therefore, when s. 2 (k) speaks of the employment  ornon-employment or the terms of employment or the  conditionsof labour of any person, it can only mean the employment  ornon-employment or the terms of employment or the  conditionsof  labour of only .those persons in the employment or	non-employment or the terms of employment or with the conditionsof  labour of whom the workmen themselves are  directly	 andsubstantially interested.  If the workmen have no direct  orsubstantial interest in the employment or non-employment  ofa person or in his terms of employment or his conditions  oflabour, then an industrial dispute cannot arise with  regardto such person."   We reach the same conclusion by approaching the  questionfrom  a	 somewhat different standpoint.	 Ordinarily,  it  isonly  the  aggrieved party who can raise a dispute;  but  anindustrial dispute' is put on a collective basis, because itis  now settled that an individual dispute, not espoused  byothers of the class to which the aggrieved party may belong,is not an industrial dispute within the meaning of a. 2 (k).As  Isaacs  J.	observed in the Australian  case  of  GeorgeHudson Ltd. v. Australian Timber Workers' Union(1):    "The  very	nature	of,  an	 I  industrial	dispute'  asdistinguished  from an individual dispute, is to obtain	 newindustrial   conditions,   not	merely	for   the   specificindividuals then working from the specific individuals	thenemploying  them,  and not for the moment only, but  for	 theclass	 of    employees    from   the	  class	   of	 em-ployers.....................   It   is	a  battle   by	 theclaimants, not for themselves alone."Section	 18 of the Act supports the aforesaid  observations,in  so far as it makes the award binding not merely  on	 theparties to the dispute, but where the party is an  employer,on  his heirs, successors or assigns and where the party  iscomposed  of  workmen,	on  all	 persons  employed  in	 theestablishment  and  all	 persons  who  subsequently   becomeemployed   therein.   If,  therefore,  the  dispute   is   acollective dispute, the party raising the dispute must	haveeither a direct interest in the subject matter of dispute ora  substantial interest therein in the sense that the  classto which the(I)  32 C.L.R. 4I3,441.			    1175aggrieved party belongs is substantially affected there. by.It  is	the community of interest of the class	as  a  whole-class of employers or class of workmen-which furnishes	 thereal  nexus  between  the dispute and  the  parties  to	 thedispute.  We see no insuperable difficulty in the  practicalapplication of this test.  In a case where the party to	 thedispute is composed of aggrieved workmen themselves and	 thesubject	 matter of dispute relates to them or any  of  them,they clearly have a direct interest in the dispute.   Where,however, the party to the dispute also composed of  workmen,espouse	 the  cause of another person whose  employment,  ornon-employment,	  etc.,	 may  prejudicially   affect   theirinterest,  the	workmen have a substantial interest  in	 thesubject matter of dispute.  In both such bases, the  disputeis an industrial dispute.   Learned  counsel  for the appellants has also  drawn	 ourattention  to  the definition of a ' trade dispute'  in	 theIndian	Trade Unions Act, 1926.	 That definition is also  inthe same terms, but with this vital difference that the word'  workmen'  means there "all persons employed in  trade  orindustry  whether or not in the employment of  the  employerwith whom the trade dispute arises." It is obvious that	 thevery  wide definition of the word 'workmen'  determines	 theambit  of the definition, of a 'trade dispute' in the  TradeUnions Act, 1926.  The provisions of that Act have differentobjects	 in  view, one of which is the	expenditure  of	 thefunds of a registered Trade Union I on the conduct of  tradedisputes on behalf of the Trade Union or any member thereof.We do not think that that definition for the purposes of  anAct  like  the	Trade Unions Act is  of	 any  assistance  inconstruing  the definition in the Act with which we are	 nowconcerned, even though the words employed are the same;	 forone  thing,  the meaning of the	 word  `workman'  completelychanges the ambit of the definition clause, and for another,the objects, scheme and purpose of the two Acts are not	 thesame.	For  the  same reasons, we do not  think  that	withregard to the precise problem before us much assistance	 canbe obtained by a detailed examination of English,1176American  or Australian decisions given with regard  to	 theterms of the statutes in force in those countries.  Each Actmust  be interpreted on its own terms particularly when	 thedefinition  of	a 'workman' varies from statute	 to  statuteand,  with  changing  conditions, from	time  to  time,	 andcountry to country.    The	 interpretation of s. 2 (k) of the Act has been	 thesubject	 of consideration in various Indian  decisions	fromdifferent  points  of view.  Two recent	 decisions  of	thisCourt considered the question if an individual dispute of  aworkman was within the definition of an industrial  dispute.The  decision in C. P. Transport Services Ltd. v.  Raghunath(1),  related  to the C. P. and	 Berar	Industrial  DisputesSettlement  Act	 (No.  XXIII of 1947) and  the	decision  inNewspapers  Ltd. v. State Industrial Tribunal, U. P.(2),  tothe  U.	 P. Industrial Disputes Act (No.  XXVIII  of  1947).Both  these  decisions considered s. 2 (k) of the  Act,	 butwith  reference	 to  a different  problem.   The  definitionclause	in  s. 2 (k) was considered at some  length  by	 theFederal Court in Western India Automobile Association v. TheIndustrial Tribunal, Bombay (3), and learned counsel for theappellants  has	 placed	 great	reliance  on  some  of	 theobervations  made  therein.   The question  which  fell	 fordecision  in  that case was whether  "	industrial  dispute"included   within  its	ambit  a  dispute  with	 regard	  toreinstatement  of  certain dismissed workmen.  It  was	heldthat  reinstatement was connected with	non-employment	and,therefore,  fell  within the words of  the  definition.	  Itappears that the finding of the Court from which the  appealwas  preferred	to the Federal Court was  that	the  workmenwhose  reinstatement was in question were discharged  duringthe dispute and were, therefore, workmen within the  meaningof  the Act, Therefore, the problem of	interpretation	withwhich  we are faced in this case was not the problem  beforetheir  Lordships of the Federal Court.	The observations  onwhich  learned	counsel for the appellants  has	 relied	 arethese:   " The question for determination is whether the   (1)	[1956]	S. C. R. 956.	 (2) A. 1. R. (1957)  S.  C.532.   (3) [1949] F. C. R- 321, 329-330 346-347.1177definition  of the expression "industrial dispute" given  inthe  Act includes within its ambit, a dispute in  regard  toreinstatement  of dismissed employees........ The  words  ofthe definition may be paraphrased thus: " any dispute  whichhas connection with the workmen being in, or out of  serviceor  employment	". " Non-employment " is the negative  of  "employment"  and would mean that disputes of workmen out  ofservice	 with  their employers are within the ambit  of	 thedefinition.   It is the positive or the negative act  of  anemployer that leads to employment or to non-employment.	  Itmay  relate to an existing employment or to  a	contemplatedemployment,  or	 it may relate to an existing fact  of	non-employment or a contemplated non-employment.  The  followingfour illustrations elucidate this point: (1) An employer hasalready employed a person and a trade union says " Please donot  employ  him  ".  Such a dispute  is  a  dispute  as  toemployment or in connection with employment. (2) An employergives notice to a union saying that he wishes to employ	 twoparticular  persons.   The  union says " no  ".	 This  is  adispute	 as to employment.  It arises out of the  desire  ofthe employer to employ certain persons. (3) An employer	 maydismiss a man, or decline to employ him.  This matter raisesa dispute as to non-employment. (4) An employer contemplatesturning	 out  a	 number of people who  are  already  in	 hisemployment.   It  is  a	 dispute  as  to  contemplated	non-employment.   " Employment or non-employment  "	 constitutesthe subject matter of one class of industrial disputes,	 theother two classes of disputes being those connected with theterms  of  employment  and the conditions  of  labour.	 Thefailure	 to employ or the refusal to employ are	 actions  onthe part of the employer which would be covered by the terms"   employment	or  non-employment  ".	 Re-instatement	  isconnected  with non-employment and is therefore	 within	 thewords of the definition."    "  It  was	contended  that	 the  re-instatment  of	 thedischarged workmen was not an industrial dispute1178because	 if the union represented the discharged  employees,they were not workmen within the definition of that word  inthe Industrial Disputes Act.  This argument is unsound.	  Wesee  no difficulty in the respondents (union) taking up	 thecause of the discharged workmen and the dispute being  stillan industrial dispute between the employer and the  workmen.The  non-employment  "	of any person "	 can  amount  to  anindustrial  dispute  between the employer and  the  workmen,falling under the definition of that word in the  IndustrialDisputes  Act.	 It  was argued	 that  if'  the	 respondentsrepresented the undischarged employees, there was no disputebetween	 them and the employer.	 That again  is	 fallacious,because	 under the definition of industrial dispute,  it  isnot necessary that the parties to the proceedings can be thedischarged  workmen only.  The last words in the  definitionof  industrial dispute, viz., " any person " are a  completeanswer to this argument of the appellants." It is true	thattwo  of	 the  illustrations-Nos. (2) and  (3)-given  in	 theaforesaid observations seem to indicate that there can be anindustrial dispute relating to persons who are not  strictlyspeaking  "workmen"; but whether those persons would  answerto  such  description  or what	community  of  interest	 theworkmen	 had with them is not stated and in any view  we  donot think that illustrations given to elucidate a  differentproblem can be taken as determinative of a problem which wasnot before the court in that case.    A reference was also made to the decision of this  Courtin D. N. Banerji v. P. R. Mukherjee (1).  The question therewas  whether the expression " industrial dispute "  includeddisputes  between  municipalities  and	their  employees  inbranches of work analogous to the carrying on of a trade  orbusiness.     More in point is the decision of the Full Bench of	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal in a number of appeals reported in1952  Labour  Appeal Cases, p. 198, where the  question	 nowbefore	us, arose directly for decision.  The same  questionarose  for  decision  before  the  All	India.	  IndustrialTribunal  (Bank	 Disputes)  and	 the  majority	of   members(Messrs.  K. C. Sen and   (1)	  [1953] S.C.R. 302.1179J.   N. Majumdar) expressed the view that a dispute  betweenemployers  and	workmen might relate to employment  or	non-employment  or	the  terms of employment  or  conditions  oflabour	of persons who were not workmen, and the  words	 anyperson' used in the definition clause were elastic enough toinclude	 an  officer, that is, a member of  the	 supervisorystaff.	 The majority view will be found in Chap.  X of	 theReport.	 The minority view was expressed by Mr. N. Chandra-sekhara Aiyar, who said:   " It is fairly clear to my mind that "any person') in theAct  means any one whe belongs to the employer class or	 theworkmen class and the cases in whose favour or against	whomcan  be	 said  to be adequately presented by  the  group  orcategory of persons to which he belongs.   As stated already it should be remembered that the  casesrelied	upon for the view that 'any person' may mean  othersalso besides the workmen were all cases relating to workmen.They  were  discharged or dismissed workmen and	 when  theircases  were  taken up by the Tribunal the point	 was  raisedthat  they  had	 ceased to be  workmen	and  were  thereforeoutside the scope of the Act.  This argument was repelled.    In	my opinion, there is no justification  for  treatingsuch  cases as authorities for the wider proposition that  avalid industrial dispute can be raised by workmen about	 theemployment  or non-employment of someone else who  does	 notbelong and never belonged to their class or category.    My	view  therefore is that the Act does  not  apply  tocases  of  non	workmen,  or officers, if  they	 may  be  socalled."Both these views as also other decisions of High Courts	 andawards of Industrial Tribunals, were considered by the	FullBench  of the Labour Appellate Tribunal and the Chairman  ofthe  Tribunal  (Mr. J. N. Majamdar)  acknowledged  that	 hisearlier	 view  was not correct and  expressed  his  opinion,concurred in by all the other members of the Tribunal, atp. 210-1501180   "  I am, therefore, of opinion that the  expression	'anyperson'	 has  to be interpreted in terms of  'workmen.'	 Thewords 'any person' cannot have, in my opinion, their  widestamplitude,  as that would create incongruity and  repugnancyin the provisions of the Act.  They are to be interpreted ina   manner  that  persons,  who	 would	come   within	thatexpression,   can  at  some  stage  or	other,	answer	 thedescription of workman as defined in the Act."   It  is  necessary to state here that earlier	 a  contraryview  had  been taken by the Calcutta High  Court  in  BirlaBrothers, Ltd. v. Modak (1), by Banerjee J. in The DalhousieJute  Co.  Ltd. v. S. N. Modak (2), and	 by  the  IndustrialTribunal, Madras, in East India Industries (Madras) Ltd.  v.Their  Workmen (3).  It is necessary to emphasise  here	 twoconsiderations which have generally weighed with some of thelearned	 Judges	 in support of the view expressed  by  them:these two Considerations are that (1) normally workmen	willnot  raise  a  dispute in which they  are  not	directly  orsubstantially interested and (2) Government will not make  areference  unless the dispute is a real or substantial	one.We think that these two considerations instead of leading toa strictly grammatical or etymological interpretation of theexpression " any person " occurring in the definition clauseshould lead, on the contrary, to an interpretation which, touse  the words of Maxwell, is to be found in the subject  orin  the occasion on which the words are used and the  objectto be attained by the statute.We are aware that anybody may be a potential workman and theconcept	 of "a potential workman" introduces an	 element  ofindefiniteness	and  uncertainty.  We also  agree  that	 theexpression  "  any  person " is not  co-extensive  with	 anyworkman,  potential or otherwise.  We think,  however,	thatthe  crucial  test is one of community of interest  and	 theperson	regarding whom the dispute is raised must be one  inwhose  employment,  non-employment, terms of  employment  orconditions of labour (as the case may be) the parties  (1) I.L.R. (1948) 2 Cal. 209.	 (2) [1951] 1 L.L.J. 145.		  (3) [1952] 1 L.L.J. 122.1181to  the	 dispute  have a  direct  or  substantial  interest.Whether	 such  direct  or  substantial	interest  has	beenestablished  in a particular case will depend on  its  factsand circumstances.   Two	other later decisions have also been brought to	 ournotice : Prahlad Rai Oil Mills v. State of Uttar Pradesh (1)in which Bhargava J. expressed the view that the  expression'any person' in the definition clause did not mean a workmanand  the  decision  in	Narendra  Kumar	 Sen  v.  All  IndiaIndustrial  Disputes (Labour Appellate) Tribunal (2),  beingthe decision of Chagla C. J. and Shah J. from which we	havealready quoted some extracts.   An  examination  of	the  decisions	referred  to   aboveundoubtedly  discloses a divergence of opinion :  two  viewshave  been expressed, one based on the ordinary	 meaning  ofthe  expression	 'any  person' and the other  based  on	 thecontext, with reference to the subject of the enactment	 andthe  objects  which the legislature has in  view.   For	 thereasons	 which	we  have already given, we  think  that	 thelatter view is correct.   To summarise.  Having regard to the scheme and objects ofthe  Act,  and	its other provisions,  the  expression	'anyperson ' in s. 2 (k) of the Act must be read-subject to suchlimitations  and qualifications as arise from  the  context;the  two crucial limitations are (1) the dispute must  be  areal  dispute  between	the  parties  to  the  dispute	 (asindicated  in the first two parts of the definition  clause)so  as	to be capable of settlement or adjudication  by	 oneparty  to the dispute giving necessary relief to the  other,and (2) the person regarding whom the dispute is raised mustbe  One	 in  whose  employment,	 non-employment,  terms	  ofemployment, or conditions of labour (as the case may be) theparties to the dipute have a direct or substantial interest.In  the absence of such interest the dispute cannot be	saidto be a real dispute between the parties.  Where the workmenraise  a  dispute  as against  their  employer,	 the  personregarding   whose  employment,	non-employment,	  terms	  ofemployment  or	conditions of labour the dispute  is  raisedneed  not  be, strictly (1) A.I.R.  (1955)  NUC	 (Allahabad)2664. (2) (1953) 55 Bo-.  L.R. 125.1182speaking, a 'workman' within the meaning of the Act but mustbe  one	 in  whose  employment,	 non-employment,  terms	  ofemployment  or conditions of labour the workmen as  a  classhave a direct or substantialinterest.    In	the  case  before us, Dr. K.P. Banerjee	 was  not  aworkman'.   He belonged to the medical or technical  staff-adifferent category altogether from workmen.  The  appellantshad no direct, nor substantial interest in his employment ornon-employment,	 and even assuming that he was a  member  ofthe  same Trade Union, it cannot be said, on the tests	laiddown  by us, that the dispute regarding his  termination  ofservice	 was an industrial dispute within the meaning of  s.2(k) of the Act.   The	result, therefore, is that the appeal fails  and  isdismissed.  In the circumstances of this case there will  beno order for costs.   SARKAR  J.-On  November 1, 1950, Dr. K. P.  Banerjee	 wasappointed the Assistant Medical Officer of the Dimakuchi TeaEstate,	 whose management is the respondent in this  appeal.On April 21, 1951, the respondent terminated Dr.  Banerjee'sservice with effect from the next day and he was offered onemonth's	 salary in lieu of notice.  He accepted this  salaryand  later  left  the Tea Estate.  The workmen	of  the	 TeaEstate	raised	a dispute concerning the  dismissal  of	 Dr.Banerjee.   On	December 23, 1953, the Government  of  Assammade an order of reference for adjudication of that  disputeby the Industrial Tribunal under the provisions of s. 10  ofthe  Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.  The order of  referencewas in the following terms:   Whereas  an industrial dispute has arisen in the  mattersspecified in the schedule below between:   (1)	  The  workmen	of  Dimakuchi  Tea  Estate,  P.	  O.Dimakuchi,  District  Darrang,	Assam  represented  by	 theSecretary, Assam Chah Karmachari Sangha, I.N.T.U.C.  Office,P.O. Dibrugarh, Assam and,   (2)	  The  management  of  Dimakuchi  Tea  Estate,	P.O.Dimakuchi, District Darrang, Assam whose agents are  Messrs.Williamson Magor and Company Limited, Calcutta.1183   And	whereas it is considered expedient by the  Govt.  ofAssam  to  refer  the said dispute  for	 adjudication  to  aTribunal  constituted  under  section 7	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947 (Act XIV of 1947).   Now,	 therefore, in exercise of the powers  conferred  byclause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 10, as amended,  ofthe  Industrial Disputes Act (XIV of 1947), the Governor  ofAssam is pleased to refer the said dispute to Sri Uma  KantaGohain, Additional District and Sessions Judge (retired) whohas  been  appointed  to constitute  a	Tribunal  under	 theprovisions of the said Act.			 SCHEDULE.   (i)	  Whether the management of Dimakuchi Tea Estate wasjustified in dismissing Dr. K. P. Banerjee, A. M. 0. ?   (ii)If not, is he entitled to reinstatement or any  otherrelief in lieu thereof ?   The Tribunal held that Dr. Banerjee was not a workman  asdefined in the Act and, therefore, the dispute referred	 wasnot  an	 industrial  dispute  and  consequently	 it  had  nojurisdiction to adjudicate upon such a dispute.	 The workmenpreferred an appeal to the Labour Appellate Tribunal.	ThatTribunal dismissed the appeal holding that Dr. Banerjee	 wasnot a workman within the definition of that term in the	 Actand as the dispute was connected with his employment or non-employment,  it	 was  not an  industrial  dispute,  and	 wastherefore   beyond  the	 jurisdiction  of   the	  IndustrialTribunal.   From  that decision the present  appeal  by	 theworkmen of the Tea Estate arises with leave granted by	thisCourt  under Art. 136 of the Constitution.  In granting	 theleave  this  Court  limited it to  the	question  whether  adispute in relation to a person who is not a workman,  fallswithin the scope of the definition of " Industrial Dispute "contained  in s. 2(k) of the Act.  That, therefore,  is	 theonly question before us.   Section 2(k) is in these terms:   "  Industrial  dispute means any  dispute  or  differencebetween employers and employers or1184between	 employers  and	 workmen,  or  between	workmen	 andworkmen,  which	 is connected with the	employment  or	non-employment or the terms of employment or with the conditionsof labour, of any person."    The dispute that was raised was between an employer, therespondent  in this appeal and its workmen,  the  appellantsbefore us and concerned the employment or non-employment  ofDr. Banerjee, a person employed by the same employer but whowas not a workman.  The question that we have to decide	 hasarisen because of the use of the words " any person " in thedefinition.  These words are quite general and very wide andaccording to their ordinary meaning include a person who  isnot  a	workman.  If this meaning is given to  these  words,then  the  dispute  that  arose	 concerning  Dr.  Banerjee'sdismissal would be an industrial dispute because the disputewould  then be clearly within s. 2(k).	This indeed  is	 notdisputed.   Unless there are reasons to the  contrary  thesewords  have  to be given their ordinary meaning.   In  BirlaBrothers  Ltd. v. Modak (1) and in Western India  AutomobileAssociation  v. -Industrial -Tribunal of Bombay (2)  it	 washeld  that the words " any person " were not meant to  referonly  to  workmen as defined in the Act but  were  wide	 andgeneral and would include others who were not such  workmen.In The Dalhousie Jute Co. Ltd. v. S. N. Modak (3),  BanerjeeJ.  said, " Any person means whatever individual is  chosen.I  see	no  reason  to restrict	 the  meaning  of  the	word'Person'".  The	 same  view  was  expressed  in	 East  IndiaIndustries (Madras) Ltd. v. Their Workmen (4), which was thedecision  of  an Industrial Tribunal.  There  is  then	somesupport	 for  the view that the words I any  person'  shouldhave no restriction put upon them.    It is pointed out on behalf of the respondent that it isnot  its  contention that the words 'any person'  should  beunderstood as referring only to a " workman " as defined  inthe Act but that those words, should include all persons  ofthe workman class and(1)  I.L.R. (1948) 2 Cal. 209.(2)  [1949] F.C.R. 321.(3)  [1951] 1 L.L.J. 145.(4)  [1952] 1 L.L.J. 122.1185so they would include discharged workmen.  It is then statedthat  the  first  two  of the  cases  mentioned	 above	wereconcerned  with a dispute regarding discharged	workmen	 anddid  not  therefore  decide that the words  (I	any  person'included  all.	 It is no doubt true that these	 cases	wereconcerned with a dispute regarding discharged workmen but  Ido  not	 understand the decision to have proceeded  on	thatbasis.	 Sen  J. said in Birla Brothers case  (1)  (p.	213)that, " It cannot be argued that workmen dismissed prior  tothe  Act  are  not 'persons"'.	And  in	 the  Western  IndiaAutomobile Association case (2), it was said (p. 346-7),   "  It  was  contended  that	the  reinstatement  of	 thedischarged workmen was not an industrial dispute because  ifthe  union represented the discharged employees,  they	werenot  workmen  within  the definition of	 that  word  in	 theIndustrial Disputes Act.  This argument is unsound.  We	 seeno difficulty in the respondents (union) taking up the causeof  the	 discharged workmen and the dispute being  still  anindustrial  dispute  between the employer and  the  workmen.The  non-employment  "	of any person "	 can  amount  to  anindustrial  dispute  between the employer and  the  workmen,falling under the definition of that word in the  IndustrialDisputes  Act.	 It  was  argued  that	if  the	 respondentsrepresented the undischarged employees, there was no disputebetween	 them and the employer.	 That again  is	 fallacious,because	 under the definition of industrial dispute,  it  isnot necessary that the parties to the proceedings can be thedischarged  workmen only.  The last words in the  definitionof industrial dispute, viz., " any person ", are a  completeanswer to this argument of the appellants."    The	 last  two of the cases mentioned earlier  were	 nothowever	 concerned  with any  dispute  regarding  dischargedworkmen.   In The Dalhousie Jute Co. -case (3)	the  disputewas  with  regard to the employment of	persons	 who  soughtemployment  as	workmen	 and in the  East  India  Industries(Madras) Ltd. case (4) the(1)  I.L.R. (1948) 2 Cal. 209.(2) [1949] F.C.R. 321.(3)  [1951] 1 L.L.J. I45.(4)[1952] 1 L.L.J. 122.1186dispute	  concerned  the  dismissal  of	 a  member  of	 thesupervisory  staff,  that is, another employee of  the	sameemployer who was not a workman.	 It is however said that  innone  of  these cases the arguments that  are  now  advancedappear to have been advanced and they were not considered inthe   judgments.   This	 comment  is  justified.   I   shalltherefore  lay	these cases aside in deciding  the  questionthat has arisen.    Are there then good reasons for not giving to the  words"  any	persons " their plain meaning ?	 Several  have	beenadvanced  and I shall examine them a little later.   I	wishnow to discuss how it is proposed to restrict the meaning ofthese  words.  I have already stated that the contention  isthat the words are not confined to a workman but refer	onlyto a person of the workman class.  This, I confess, I do notfollow.	 The word " workman " is a term defined in the	Act.Outside	 the  definition it, is impossible to say who  is  aworkman and who is not.	 That being so, the words "  workmanclass  " would be meaningless unless they meant all  personswho were workmen as defined in the Act.	 So read the words "any person " would mean only a workman.	 But it is  concededthat this is not so.  And, of course, it cannot be so,	for,if   that  was	intended,  there  was  no  reason  for	 thelegislature  not  to  have used the words "  any  workman  "instead of the words it any person ". Again if this was	 theintention,  then  a dispute concerning the  dismissal  of  aworkman	 would not be an industrial dispute for a  dismissedworkman was not a workman within the definition of that wordin  the	 Act as it stood in 1953, that being  the  Act	withwhich  we  are	concerned.  Such a  result  is	against	 allconceptions  of industrial disputes laws.  It is indeed	 notcontended  that	 a  dispute concerning the  dismissal  of  aworkman	 would not be an industrial dispute.   It  thereforeseems to me that the words " any personal cannot be said  torefer only to persons of the workman class.  If they  cannotbe restricted as being understood to refer only to a  personof  the workman class, it is not suggested that they can  berestricted in any other manner.    It is then said that the words refer to "workmen1187dismissed  as  well as in employment as also those,  who  infuture,	 become	 "workmen".  Again I am in  difficulty.	  Sounderstood  the words would not include a person  who  seeksemployment as a workman because he has not become a  workmantill  he  is employed.	That being so, it would have  to  besaid that a dispute raised by workmen in employment when newworkmen	 are  to  be  appointed,  that	only  those  of	 thecandidates as agree to join their union should be  appointedand  others  should  not  be, would  not  be  an  industrialdispute.   That	 again seems to me to be  against  all	con-ceptions  of  industrial dispute laws.	 Furthermore,  I  amwholly	unable	to  appreciate what is meant  by  a  disputeconcerning  a  person, who is not at the  time	the  disputearises, a workman but in future becomes one.  When is such aperson to become a workman ? I find no answer.	Again, is itto  be said that whether a dispute is an industrial  disputeor not may have to depend on future circumstances for  thereis no knowing whether the person concerning whom the disputearises	will later become a workman or not ? If	 he  becomesone,  there can be no dispute concerning him referable to  apoint of time before he became one, and, if he does not,  hecannot be one who in future becomes a workman.   It is said that the words "any person " were used insteadof  the	 word  workman because it was  intended	 to  includewithin	them  persons  who had	been  dismissed	 before	 thedispute	 arose	and who were not within	 the  definition  ofworkmen	 in  the Act as it stood in 1953.  If that  was	 thereason,	 why  could  not the legislature  use  the  words  "workmen	 and  dismissed	 workmen ?"  There  was	 nothing  toprevent	 that  being  done.   In  fact	the  definition	  of"workman"  has	been  amended in  1956	to  include  workmendischarged in consequence of an industrial dispute or  whosedischarge  has led to that dispute.  So, as  the  definitionnow stands, it includes persons dismissed before the disputearose.	Yet the words " any person " have been left untouch-ed  in s. 2 (k) and not been replaced by the  word  workman.This, to my mind, shows that it was not the11511188intention  to confine the words " any person to	 workmen  inemployment or discharged.    But it is said that the words " any person were left  inthe Act because it was intended to include not only  workmenin employment and dismissed workmen bat	 also persons who infuture	become	workmen.  It is said that, that this  is  soappears	 from s. 18 of the Act.	 I shall presently  considerthis section but I desire to observe now that this  argumentmuch weakens the argument noticed in the preceding paragraphfor  if the words " any person " were used so  that  personswho in future become workmen might be included in them, theycould not have been used to avoid such dismissed workmen  aswere  not workmen as defined in the Act being excluded	fromthem.  It seems to me that if it is argued that the words  "any person " were used so that persons who in future  becomeworkmen	 may be included in them,; it cannot be argued	thatthose words were used instead of the word "workman"  becauseit  was	 intended to include within them  certain  dismissedworkmen	 who were not workmen within the definition of	thatterm in the Act as it stood in 1953.   Coming now to s. 18 it is in these terms:   A  settlement  arrived at in the course  of	conciliationproceedings  under  this Act or an award  which	 has  becomeenforceable shall be binding on-  (a) all parties to the industrial dispute;  (b) all other parties summoned to appear in theproceedings  as parties to the dispute, unless the Board  orTribunal, as the case may be, records the opinion that	theywere so summoned without proper cause;  (c)  where  a party referred to in clause  (a)  or  clause(b)is  an  employer,  his heirs, successors  or	 assigns  inrespect of the establishment to which the dispute relates;  (d)  where  a party referred to in clause  (a)  or  clause(b)is composed of workmen, all persons who were employed  inthe establishment or part of the establishment, as the	casemay  be,  to which the dispute relates on the  date  of	 thedispute and all persons who subsequently become employed  inthat establishment or part.11891  entirely fail to see how that section assists at  all  infinding	 out who were meant to be included in the words	 anyperson	".  Is it to be said that s. 18(d)  by,	 making	 theaward binding on those who become in future employed in	 theestablishment  as workmen, indicates that such	persons	 aretreated in the same way as  workmen in actual employment andtherefore it must have been intended to include them  withinthe  words " any person " along with present  and  dismissedworkmen.   I  am wholly unable to agree.  The object  of  s.18(d)  is  quite clear.	 The Act is intended  to  compose  adispute between an employer and his workmen by a  settlementor  an award brought about by the machinery provided  in  itand  the period during which an award or a settlement is  toremain in force is also provided.  The idea behind s. 18  isthat  whoever  takes  up appointment as	 a  workman  in	 theestablishment  to which the dispute relates during the	timewhen the award or settlement is in force, would be bound  byit.   If it were not so, the award or settlement would	havelittle effect in settling a dispute, for any newly recruitedworkmen	 could again raise the dispute.	 Any one having	 anyexperience  of industries knows that workmen are  largely  ashifting population and that the need for replacement of theworkmen	 leaving  and for addition to the  strength  of	 theworkmen	 employed, is not infrequent.  To meet the  exigencyarising	 from this need and to make the award or  settlementeffective  it was necessary to enact s. 18(d).	 Its  objectwas not to place workmen in employment and workmen recruitedin future in the same position for all purposes of the	Act.On  the	 same reasoning, in view of s. 18(a), it has  to  besaid that it was the intention of the Act to give the heirs,successors or assignees of an employer the same position forall  purposes of the Act as that of the employer.  But	thatwould  be absurd.  Section 18(d) deals with a person who  infuture becomes employed.  The section does not say  employedas  a workman but I will assume that that is what is  meant.I  do  not understand what is meant by saying  that  such  aperson is within the words " any person " in s. 2(k).	Whatis the point of time that has to be considered ?1190If it is after he has become employed, then he is a  workmanand  admittedly within the words "any person ". Is it to  besaid  that  before  such employment also he  is	 within	 themeaning of those words.	 But it is difficult to follow this.It is conceivable that	any person whatsoever may in  futurebe employed as a workman for there is nothing in the qualityof  a human being that marks him out as a workman.  In	thisway  the  words	 " any person " would  include	all.   That,however, is not meant, for it will defeat the very  argumentbased on s. 18(d).  Is it to be said then, only such  futureworkmen	 are  meant  as apply for jobs as  such	 ?  But	 thesection makes no reference to such people at all and  cannottherefore  be  of  any assistance in  showing  that  it	 wasintended  that such applicants would be included within	 thewords " any person ". I am therefore wholly unable to acceptthe  argument  that s. 18(d)shows that future  workmen	wereintended  to be included within the words "any	person".   Iwish  also to say this.	 Assume that s. 18(d) shows that  itwas  intended to include within the words ,any person "	 onewho  in future becomes a workman.  But where is	 the  reasonfor  saying  that  the words do not also  include  others  ?Section 18 provides none.   I  proceed  now  to	discuss	 the  reasons  advanced	 forrestricting  the generality of the words " any	person	Theywere put as follows:   1.	  In  certain  sections of the Act the words  "	 anyperson	"  have	 been used but there  the  reference  is  toworkmen,  and therefore in s. 2(k) the words " any person  "should mean persons of the workman class.   2.	  The  scheme and the purpose of the  Act  generallyand  the  object  of  the Act  specially  being	 to  benefitworkmen,  the  words  "any person " should  be	confined  topeople of the workman class.   3.	  The  word  "dispute" in s. 2(k)  itself  indicatesthat  the person raising the dispute must be  interested  inthe dispute and therefore since the dispute must concern theemployment,  non-employment,  terms  of	 employment  or	 theconditions of labour of a person, that person must be of theworkman class.1191    The first reason, then, is that in certain sections, theAct uses the words " any person".  I will assume that by theuse of these words only workmen are intended to be  referredto  in these sections.	But the question arises why is	suchintention  to  be inferred?  Clearly,  because	the  contextrequires it.  I will refer to some of these sections to makemy  point clear.  Section 2(1) defines a lock-out as  "	 theclosing of a place of employment, or the suspension of work,or  the	 refusal by the employer to continue to	 employ	 anynumber	of persons employed by him." Section 2(q) defines  astrike	as  "  a  cessation of work by	a  body	 of  personsemployed  in  any  industry  acting  in	 combination,  or  aconcerted   refusal,   or   a	refusal	  under	  a   commonunderstanding, of any number of persons who are or have beenso  employed to continue to work or to	accept	employment."Lock-outs and strikes are dealt with in ss. 22, 23 and 24 ofthe  Act.  Section 22(2) says that no employer	carrying  onany public utility service shall lock-out any of his workmenexcept	on  certain  conditions mentioned  in  the  section.Section 23 says that no employer of any workman employed  inany industrial establishment shall declare a lock-out duringthe  periods  mentioned in the section.	 Section  24  statesthat a strike or a lock-out shall be illegal if commenced ordeclared   in  contravention  of  s.  22  or  s.  23.	 Thedefinitions of lock-outs and strikes are for the purposes ofss. 22, 23 and 24.  There are other sections in which  lock-outs  and strikes are mentioned but they make no  differencefor  our present purpose.  The lock-outs and  strikes  dealtwith  in ss. 22(2), 23 and 24 are lock-outs of	and  strikesby,  workmen.  It may hence be said that in s. 2(1) and	 (q)by  the	 word person a workman is meant.  Therefore,  it  isthese sections, viz., 22(2), 23 and 24, which show what	 themeaning of the word 'person' in the definitions is.  I wouldlike  to  point out in passing that s. 22(1)  says  that  noperson	employed  in a public utility service  shall  go  onstrike except on certain conditions and there is nothing  inthe  Act  to show that the word "person" in s.	22(1)  meansonly a workman.	 Proceeding however with the point we are1192concerned  with, the question is, is there any provision  inthe Act which would show that the words " any person" in  s.2(k)  were  meant only to refer to persons  of	the  workmanclass.	 I have not been able to find any and none has	beenpointed	 out.  Therefore the fact that in s. 2, sub-ss.	 (1)and (q) the word "  persons " means workmen is no reason forconcluding  that  the  same  word must	be  given  the	samerestricted meaning in s. 2(k).	The position with regard  tos. 33A, in which the word employee has to be read as meaninga workman because of s. 33, is the same and does not requireto be dealt with specially.  I may add that if it has to  besaid  that  because  in	 certain  other	 sections  the	word"person"  has  to be understood as referring  to  a  workmanonly,  in  s.  2(k) also the same word must  have  the	samemeaning, then we have to read the words " any person" in  s.2(k) as meaning only a workman as defined in the Act.	Thishowever is not the contention of the learned counsel for therespondent.   I	 may further say that it was  not  contendedthat the word " person" in s. 2, sub-ss. (1) and (q) and theword employee in s. 33A has to be read as including not onlya workman in employment but also a discharged workman and  aperson	who in future becomes a workman, and it seems to  methat such a contention would not have been possible.   I  proceed now to deal with the second group	 of  reasonsbased on the object and scheme of the Act.  It is said	thatthe  Act  makes	 a distinction	between	 employees  who	 areworkmen	 and all other employees, and that the focus of	 theAct is on workmen and it was intended mainly for them.	Thiswas  the view taken in United Commercial Bank Ltd. v.  KedarNath  Gupta  (1).  I will assume all this.  It may  also  betrue that the Act is not much concerned with employees otherthan  workmen.	But I am unable to see that all this is	 anyreason for holding that the words " any person " must mean aperson	of  the workman class.	The definition	in  s.	2(k)would  be fully concerned with workmen however the  words  "any person " in it may(1)  [1952] 1 L. L. J. 782.1193be  understood	because the dispute will be one to  which  aworkman	 is  a partyl  Is it to be said that the  Act  wouldcease  to  be  intended	 for workmen  or  the  focus  of  itdisplaced  from	 workmen  or that  the	distinction  betweenworkmen	 and  other  employees would  vanish  if  a  disputerelating  to  the dismissal of one who is not a	 workman  isheld to be an industrial dispute, even though the dispute isone to which workmen are parties ? I am unable to  subscribeto such an argument.  But it is said that in such a case theworkmen would not be interested in the dispute, the  disputewould  not really be with them and they would not be in	 anyreal  sense of the word parties to it.	So put the  argumentcomes  under the last of the three reasons  earlier  stated,,namely,  that	in  order that there may  be  an  industrialdispute	 the  workmen must be interested  in  that  dispute.This  contention I will consider later.	 It is also said  inthe United Commercial Bank Case (1) that the main purpose ofthe  Act  is to adjust the relations between  employers	 andworkmen	 by securing for the latter the benefit provided  bythe  Act.   It	is really another way  of  saying  that	 theworkmen	 must be interested in the dispute, for if they	 arenot  interested	 no  benefit  can accrue  to  them  from  anadjustment  of	it.  This, as I have said,  I  will  discusslater.   It  is  also	 said that the Act is  for  the	 benefit  ofworkmen	 and therefore if a dispute concerning a person	 whois not a workman, is an industrial dispute capable of  beingresolved  by adjudication under the Act, then, if the  awardgoes  in favour of the workmen raising it, a  benefit  wouldresult	to a person whom the Act did not intend to  benefit.So  it	is said, an industrial dispute cannot be  a  disputeconcerning  one	 who  is not a	workman.   But	the  benefitresulting  to  the  person  in such a  case  would  only  beincidental.  The workmen themselves would also be  benefitedby it at the same time.	 To adopt this argument would be  todeprive	 the  workmen  of  this	 benefit  and  there  is  nojustification  for  doing  so.	How  the  workmen  would  bebenefited would appear later when I discuss the question  ofthe workmen's interest in the dispute.	I will show later(1)  [1952] 1 L. L. J . 782.1194that  if the workmen were not interested in the	 dispute  sothat  they could get no benefit under it, there would be  noreference by the Government and there would be no benefit toa  person  who was not a workman.  Further, I am  unable  toagree  that  the  Act  is intended   to	 confer	 benefit  onworkmen.   Its	object	is  admitted  by  all  to   preserveindustrial peace.  It may confer some benefit on workmen butat  the	 same time it takes away their power  and  right  tostrike and puts them under a disadvantage.   We  were referred to the note of dissent to the award  ofthe  majority  of the All India	 Industrial  Tribunal  (BankDisputes),  dated  July	 31, 1950.  This  note	was  by	 Mr.Chandra Sekhar Aiyer who later became a Judge of this Court.In that note he expressed the view that " any person " in s.2(k) means any one who belongs to the employer class or	 theworkmen class and the cases in whose favour or against whom,can  be	 said to be adequately represented by the  group  orcategory  of  persons to which he belongs.  I  have  alreadystated	my  difficulties  in agreeing that  the	 words	"anyperson	" mean only persons of the work. man class.  I	willpresently  deal with the reasoning on which Mr. Aiyer  baseshis view but I wish to say now that it seems to me that	 thewords  "any person" cannot refer to anyone belonging to	 theemployer  class	 because the dispute must be  in  connectionwith the employment, non-employment, or terms of  employmentor  the	 conditions of labour of any person and	 it  is	 notpossible to conceive of any such thing in connection with  aperson in his capacity as an employer.   Mr. Aiyar first stated that a necessary limitation to  beput  on the words " any person " is that the  person  shouldhave something to do with the particular establishment wherethe  dispute has cropped up.  He said that it could  not  bethat  the  workmen  in	Bank  A	 could	raise  a  valid	 andlegitimate  industrial dispute with their  employer  becausesome  one  in  Bank  B had not	been  treated  well  by	 hisemployer.  Assume this is so. But it does not follow that anindustrial  dispute must be one concerning a person  of	 theworkman	 class alone, for, a person having something  to  dowith an1195establishment  need  not necessarily belong to	the  workmanclass.	 An  officer in an establishment where	the  disputecrops  up would be as much a person having something  to  dowith  that establishment as a workman there and,  therefore,even  assuming	that the limitation suggested by  Mr.  Aiyarapplies,  there	 would	be  nothing  in	 it  to	 prevent  anindustrial dispute concerning him arising.  The question  isnot whether the person concerning whom an industrial disputemay arise, has to be employed in the establishment where thedispute arises, but whether he must belong to what has	beencalled	the  workman  class.  The  decision  of	 the  formerquestion  which has not arisen in this case, -is of no	helpin  deciding  the  question that has arisen  and  I  do	 nottherefore  feel	 called	 upon to express  any  opinion	withregard to it.   Mr. Aiyar next referred to a case where workmen of a Bankraise  a  dispute with that Bank, about an employee  of	 theBank  who was not a workman, for example an officer who	 hadbeen  dismissed.  He assumed that the Bank and	the  officerhad  no dispute as between themselves.	In his view,  if  insuch a case the dispute was an industrial dispute and  couldbe  made  the subject matter of an award  by  an  IndustrialTribunal,  the	award would not be binding  on	the  officerbecause	 he had no concern with the dispute.   According  tohim,  it would be absurd to suggest that the Bank was  underan  obligation to give effect to the award.   Therefore,  inhis view, such a dispute would not be an industrial dispute.Now,  whether the award would be binding on the	 officer  ornot, would depend on whether he could be made a party to thedispute under s. 18(b).	 It is not necessary to discuss thatquestion now.  But assume that the award was not binding  onthe officer.  Why should not the bank be under an obligationto give effect to the award in so far as it lay in its powerto  do	so ? If the dispute was an industrial  dispute,	 theaward  would be binding on the Bank and it must give  effectto it.	Then the argument comes to this that the dispute  isnot an industrial dispute because the award would not, as1521196assumed,  be  binding  on the officer  concerning  whom	 thedispute arose.	I cannot accept this view.  Take this  case.An  employer  dismisses five of his  workmen.	The  workmendismissed  make	 no  grievance.	  Three	 months	 later	 theemployer  dismisses twenty five more and again	neither	 thedismissed  workmen nor the workmen in employment  raise	 anydispute.  Two months after the second dismissal the employerdismisses  fifty workmen.  These workmen make  no  complaintand  leave.   The workmen in employment now  begin  to	takenotice	of  the dismissals and think that  the	employer  isacting	on  a set policy and raise a dispute about  all	 thedismissals.   The dispute is then referred for	adjudicationand an award is made in favour of the workmen.	Assume	thatall  the  dismissed  workmen could be made  parties  to	 theadjudication proceedings but for one reason or another, werenot  made parties.  This award would not be binding  on	 thedismissed  workmen and certainly not on those who  had	beendismissed  on the two earlier occasions.  They would not  becovered by any of the provisions of s. 18.  Is it to be saidthat  for  that	 reason the dispute  is	 not  an  industrialdispute?  I am wholly unable to agree.	Such a dispute wouldbe  entirely  within the definition even on  the  assumptionthat the words "any person" mean only persons of the workmanclass.	 It  follows,  therefore, that in  order  to  decidewhether	 a dispute is or is not an industrial  dispute,	 thequestion  whether the award would be binding on	 the  personconcerning  whose employment the dispute was raised,  is  notest.  I therefore find nothing in the minute of dissent  ofMr.  Aiyar to justify the putting of any restriction on	 theplain  meaning of the words "any person" in s. 2(k).   As  Ishall show later, if certain disputes concerning foremen whoare not workmen and who I will assume would not be bound  bythe award, are not to be industrial disputes, the object  ofthe Act would clearly be defeated.  I cannot therefore agreethat the fact that an award is not binding on one affords  areason	for  holding  that there  cannot  be  an  industrialdispute concerning him.   The matter was put from another point of view.  It1197is  said that if workmen could raise an	 industrial  disputewith their employer concerning the salary of a manager,	 whowas  not  a  workman, and an award was	made  directing	 theemployer  to  pay  a  smaller salary  to  the  manager,	 theemployer  would be bound by the award but not  the  manager.Then  it is said, suppose, the employer had made a  contractwith  the manager to employ him at the higher salary  for  anumber of years.  It is pointed out that in such a case	 theaward  being binding on the employer, he would be  compelledto  commit  a breach of his contract and be  liable  to	 themanager in damages.  It is said that it could not have	beenthe  intention	of the Act to produce a	 result	 whereby  anemployer would become liable in damages and therefore such adispute cannot be an industrial dispute.  But I do not agreethat  the  employer would be liable in damages.	  The  awardbeing  binding on him under the Act, the performance of	 hiscontract  with the manager would become unlawful  after	 theaward  and therefore void under s. 56 of the  Contract	Act.The  employer  would  not, by carrying	out  the  award,  becommitting any breach of contract nor would he be liable  indamages.   To  hold  that the  dispute	contemplated  is  anindustrial  dispute,  would not produce	 the  absurd  resultsuggested.   The  reason  suggested  for  not  holding	thatdispute to be an industrial dispute, therefore, fails.     Take another case.	 Suppose there was a dispute betweentwo employers A and B concerning the wage to be paid by B tohis workmen, A complaining that B was paying too high wages,and the dispute was referred for adjudication by a  Tribunaland an award was made that B should reduce the wages of	 hisworkmen.  Assume the workmen were not parties to the disputeand were not made parties even if it was possible to do	 so.The  award  would not be binding on  the  workmen  concernedunder  s.  18.	 None the less it cannot be  said  that	 thedispute	 was  not  an  industrial  dispute.   It  completelysatisfies  the definition of an industrial dispute  even  onthe basis that the words SC any person " mean only  workmen.So again it would appear that the words may include one on1198whom the award would not be binding.    I  may add here, though I do not propose to	 decide	 thequestion it being wholly unnecessary for the case before us,that  it seems to me that when a dispute concerns  a  personwhether	 a  workman  or	 not, who is riot  a  party  to	 thedispute, he can, under s. 18(b), be properly made a party toappear	in the proceedings arising out of that	dispute.   Ifind nothing in that section to prevent such a course  beingadopted.  If he is made a party, there is no doubt that	 thedecision, whichever way it went, would be most	satisfactoryto all concerned.  If this is the right view, then all argu-ments  based on the fact that the words " any person  "	 canonly  include one on whom the award would be  binding  woulddisappear,  for	 on being made a party the  award  would  bebinding on that person.	 It would on the contrary show	thatit was intended that the words " any person " should includeone who is not a party to the dispute, and therefore not  inthe workman class.    An	argument based on s. 33 was also advanced.  That  isthis.	The  section provides that during  the	pendency  ofconciliation proceedings or proceedings before a Tribunal inrespect	 of an industrial dispute the conditions of  serviceof workmen concerned in the dispute cannot be changed by theemployer,  nor such workmen dismissed or otherwise  punishedby him except with the permission of the Board or  Tribunal.It  is said that this section shows that it was intended  toprotect only workmen and therefore the words " any person  "in s. 2(k) should be understood as meaning workmen only.   Ido  not	 follow	 this argument at  all.	  Section  33  givesprotection  to	workmen concerned in the dispute  which	 canonly mean workmen who are parties to the dispute.  A workmanconcerning  whom a dispute arises may or may not be a  partyto  the	 dispute.  The object of the section is	 clear.	  Ifworkmen	 could	be  punished  during  the  pendency  of	 theproceedings,  then no workman would raise a dispute or	wantto take part in the proceedings under the Act concerned withits  adjudication.   Further, such punishment  would  surelygive rise to1199another dispute.  All this would defeat the entire object ofthe  Act  which	 is to compose	disputes  by  settlement  oradjudication.	Section 33 gives protection to	workmen	 whoare  parties to the dispute and does not purport to  concernitself	with the person concerning whom the dispute  arises.Such  being the position, the section can throw no light  onthe meaning of the words "any person " in s. 2(k).   Supposea  workman  was	 dismissed and	thereupon  a  dispute  arosebetween	 the  employer and the other workmen  in  employmentconcerning   such  dismissal.	Such  a	 dispute  would	  beundoubtedly an industrial dispute.  And it is none the	lessso,  though  no	 protection can be given  to  the  dismissedworkman under s. 33 for he is already dismissed.Reference  was	also made to s. 36 which  provides  for	 therepresentation	of the parties to a dispute in a  proceedingarising under the Act out of such dispute.  Sub-section	 (1)of  s. 36 provides how a workman, who is a party,  shall  berepresented and sub-section (2) provides how an employer whois likewise a party, shall be represented.  The section doesnot  provide for representation of any other person.  It  issaid that this shows that the words " any person " must meanonly  a workman, because they must mean an  employee,  past,present or future and only such employees as are workmen canbe parties to the dispute under the definition.	 I am unableto  agree.   Section 36 provides for the  representation  ofworkmen besides employers and of no one else, because no onebut a party need be represented in the proceedings and underthe definition, a party to an industrial dispute must eitherbe an employer or a workman.  This section has nothing to dowith  the  person concerning whom the dispute  arises.	 If,however, he is also a party to the dispute, then the sectionmakes a provision for his representation in the	 proceedingsarising	 out of that dispute as such a party and not as	 oneconcerning whom the dispute has arisen.	 I have earlier saidthat  there  may  be  a case  in  which	 though	 the  personconcerning  whom the dispute arises is a workman,  still  hemay not be a party to it.  The fact that besides an em-1200ployer,	 the Act makes provision for the  representation  inthe  proceedings  arising out of an  industrial	 dispute  ofworkmen	 alone does not show that an industrial dispute	 canonly  arise concerning a workman.  In my view, therefore  s.36  is	of no assistance in finding out the meaning  of	 thewords " any person ".I  come	 now  to  the  last  of	 the  reasons  advanced	 forrestricting the natural meaning of the words " any person ".It  is	said that the word dispute in the  definition  showsthat  the person raising it must have an interest in it	 andtherefore  since  the dispute must concern  the	 employment,non-employment, terms of employment or conditions of  labourof  a person that person must be a workman.  I confess I  donot follow the reasoning.  It is said that this is the	viewexpressed by a Bench of the Bombay High Court consisting  ofChagla	C. J. and Shah J. in Narendra Kumar Sen v.  The	 AllIndia  Industrial Disputes (Labour Appellate) Tribunal	(1).I  have	 some  difficulty in seeing that this  is  the	viewexpressed  in  that  case.  What  happened  there  was	thatcertain	 workmen  raised a dispute  against  their  employerwhich  included	 a demand for fixing scales of pay  and	 forbonus  not only for themselves but also for the foremen	 anddivisional heads under the same employers who were not work-men and this dispute had been referred by the Government foradjudication  by  the  Industrial  Tribunal.   The  Tribunalrefused to adjudicate the dispute in so far as it  concernedthe  pay  and  bonus of persons who  were  not	workmen	 as,according  to  it, to this extent it was not  an  industrialdispute.   The workmen then applied to the High Court for  awrit  directing the Tribunal to decide the dispute  relatingto the claims made for the pay and bonus of the persons	 whowere not workmen.  The High Court held that the dispute	 wasnot  an industrial dispute and refused the writ.  Chagla  C.J. expressed himself in these words (p. 130):"A  controversy	 which is connected with the  employment  ornon-employment	or  the	 terms of  employment  or  with	 theconditions  of labour is an industrial controversy.  But  itis not enough that it(1)  (1953) 55 Bom.  L.R. 125.1201should	be an industrial controversy; it must be a  dispute;and  in	 my  opinion it is not every  controversy  or  everydifference of opinion between workmen and employers which isconstituted a dispute or difference within the meaning of s.2(k).	A workman may have ideological differences with	 hisemployer;  a workman may feel sympathetic consideration	 foran  employee  in his own industry or in	 other	industry;  aworkman may feel seriously agitated about the conditions  oflabour outside our own country; but it is absurd to  suggestthat  any of these factors would entitle a workman to  raisean  industrial dispute within the meaning of s.	 2(k).	 Thedispute	 contemplated by s. 2(k) is a controversy  in  whichthe  workman is directly and substantially  interested.	  Itmust  also  be	a grievance felt by the	 workman  which	 theemployer  is in a position to remedy.  Both  the  conditionsmust  be  present;  it must be a grievance  of	the  workmanhimself;  it  must be a grievance which the employer  as  anemployer is in a position to remedy or set right.  "Then he said (p. 131):" It is only primarily in their own employment, in their ownterms of employment, in their own conditions of labour	thatworkmen	 are  interested and it is with regard	these  that,they  are  entitled  to	 agitate  by  means  of	 raising  anindustrial dispute and getting it referred to a Tribunal  bythe Government under s. 10."I  find	 some difficulty in accepting all that	the  learnedChief  Justice said.  But assume he is right.  How  does  itfollow	that because an industrial dispute is one  in  whichworkmen must be interested it must be concerning  themselves? I do not see that it does.  Neither do I find Chagla C. J.saying	so.   In the case before him the  dispute  concernedpersons	 who  were  not workmen and he found  on  the  factsbefore	him  that the workmen were not	interested  in	thatdispute	 and  thereupon	 held that the dispute	was  not  anindustrial  dispute.   But  that  is  not  saying  that	  anindustrial dispute can only be a dispute concerning workmen.Even  the observations that I have read from p. 131  of	 thereport would not support this view.  It is not1202difficult to conceive of a dispute concerning the employmentof  a person who is not a workman which at the same time  isone  which  affects  the conditions of labour  or  terms  ofemployment of the workmen themselves.  I shall give examplesof  such  disputes later.. What I wish now to point  out  isthat  even if an industrial dispute has to be one  in  whichworkmen	 are interested, that would be no reason for  sayingthat  it can only be a dispute concerning workmen  and	thattherefore the words " any person " in s. 2(k) must mean onlyworkmen.   I  also  think  it right to	say  now  that	thisargument  is  not  really open to the  respondent,  for	 thecontention of the learned counsel for the respondent is,  asI  have earlier stated, that the words " any person" do	 notmean  a	 workman only but mean all persons  of	the  workmanclass,	or  past, present and future workmen.	Now  I	findnothing	 in  the  judgment of Chagla, C.  J.  to  show	thatworkmen can be interested in the workman class or in past orfuture	workmen.  On the contrary be says that	workmen	 areinterested  primarily-and by the word " primarily " I  thinkhe  means,  directly  and substantially-only  in  their	 ownemployment,  terms  of employment or conditions	 of  labour.Reliance  on  the  judgment of the Bombay  High	 Court	willtherefore land the respondent in contradiction.I find great difficulty in saying that it is a condition  ofthe existence of an industrial, dispute that workmen must beinterested in it.  The Act does not say so.  But it is	saidthat  the  word dispute in the definition  implies  it.	  Nodoubt, one does not raise a dispute unless he is  interestedin it, and as the Act must be taken to have in contemplationnormal men it must have assumed that workmen will not  raisea dispute unless they are interested in it.  But that is notto  my mind saying that it is a condition of  an  industrialdispute	 as  contemplated by the Act that  workmen  must  beinterested in it.  So to hold would, in my opinion, lead  tograve  difficulties and might even result in  defeating	 theobject of the Act.  This I will endeavour to show presently.What I have to say will also show that even assuming that anindustrial1203dispute	 is one in which workmen have to be interested,	 thedispute that we have in this case concerning Dr.  Banerjee'sdismissal is an industrial dispute for the appellant workmenare directly and substantially interested in it.The  question  that  first  strikes me, is  what  is  the  2interest  which workmen must have?  I find it impossible  todefine that interest.  If it cannot be defined, it cannot ofcourse be made a condition of the existence of an industrialdispute,  for  we would then never know what  an  industrialdispute	 is.  Now, " interest ", as we understand that	wordin   courts  of	 law,  means  the  well-known  concepts	  ofproprietary  interest or interest in other recognised  civilrights.	  Outside  these the matter  becomes  completely  atlarge.and  well nigh impossible of definition.	To say	thatthe interest that the workmen must have is one of the  well-known  kinds of interest mentioned above is, to my mind,  tomake  the Act largely infructuous.  We cannot lose sight  ofthe  fact  that	 the Act is not	 dealing  with	interest  asordinarily  understood.	 It cannot be kept in mind too	wellthat the Act is dealing with a new concept, namely, that  ofthe relation between employer and employed or to put it moresignificantly,	between capital and labour, a concept  whichis undergoing a, fast and elemental change from day to	day.The numerous and radical amendments made in the Act since itcame  on  the Statute book not so long ago, testify  to	 thefast  changing	nature of the concept.	 Bearing  all  thesethings	in  mind,  I find it  almost  impossible  to  defineadequately  or	with any usefulness an interest	 which	willserve the purposes of the Act.	I feel that an attempt to doso  will  introduce a rigidity which will work harm  and  nogood.  Nor does it, to my mind, in any manner help to definesuch interest by calling it direct and substantial.I  will illustrate the difficulty that I feel by an  exampleor two.	 Suppose a workman was dismissed by the employer andthe other workmen raised a dispute about it.  Such a disputecomes  completely within the definition even  assuming	thatthe words1531204"any person " only refer to persons of the workman class, asthe  respondent contends.  There is therefore no doubt	thatsuch a dispute is an industrial dispute.  The question	thenis   what  interest  have  the	disputing  workmen  in	 thereinstatement of the dismissed work man if they must have aninterest  ? The reinstatement would not in any	way  improvetheir financial condition or otherwise enhance any  interestof theirs in any sense of the term, in common use.  The onlyinterest  that	I  can	think  of  the	workmen	 having	 forthemselves  in such a dispute is the solidarity	 of  labour.It is only this that if the same thing happens to any one ofthem,  the  others would rally round and by  taking  up	 hiscause  prevent the dismissal.  Apart from the Act how  wouldthe workmen have prevented the dismissal from taking  effect? They would have, if they wanted to prevent the  dismissal,gone  on  strike and thereby tried to force  the  employer'shands not to give effect to the dismissal.  That would	havedestroyed  the industrial peace which the object of the	 Actis to preserve.	 It is in order to achieve this object	thatthe Act recognises this dispute as an industrial dispute andprovides  for its settlement by the methods of	conciliationor adjudication contained in it and preserves the industrialpeace  by  preventing the parties being left  to  their	 owndevices.   If what I have described as solidarity of  labouris  to be considered as direct and substantial interest	 forthe purposes of an industrial dispute, as I conceive is	 notdisputed  by  any  one, then it will  appear  that  we	haveembarked  on  a new concept of interest.  I  will  now	takeanother case which in regard to interest is the same as	 theprevious one.  Suppose the employer engages some workmen  ata  low rate of wages and the other workmen raise  a  disputedemanding  that	 the  wages of these  low  paid	 workmen  beincreased.   This  case	 would	be  completely	within	 thedefinition  of an industrial dispute even according  to	 themost restricted meaning that may be put upon the words	"anyperson	",  namely  that they refer only  to  work.  men  asdefined	 in the Act, because the dispute concerns the  termsof employment of such a workman.1205So  this  has  admittedly to be held  to  be  an  industrialdispute.   What then is the interest of the workmen in	thisdispute ? The increase in the wages claimed would not in anymanner	improve	 the financial condition  of  the  disputingworkmen,  nor  serve any of their  interests  as  ordinarilyunderstood.   It  would however help the workmen  in  seeingthat  their  own wages were not reduced	 by  preventing	 theemployer  from being able to engage any low paid workman  atall.  Apart from this I can think of no other interest	thatthe disputing workmen may have in the dispute.	If thereforeit  is	essential that the disputing workmen  must  have  aninterest in the dispute, this must be that interest, for, asalready	 stated,  the dispute is undoubtedly  an  industrialdispute.If  this is sufficient interest to constitute an  industrialdispute	 I  fail to see why the workmen have  no  sufficientinterest in a dispute in which they claim that a foreman whois  particularly rude and brutal in his behaviour should  beremoved and they should have a more human foreman.  This  issurely	a  matter in which the workmen raising	the  disputehave  a personal and immediate interest and not, as  in	 thelast  case,  an	 interest in  the  prevention  of  somethinghappening  in future, which conceivably may never happen  atall.   Such  an interest is plainly nearer to  the  ordinarykinds of interest than the interest in solidarity of  labouror  in the prevention of future harm which in the  precedingparagraphs  have been found to be sufficient to	 sustain  anindustrial   dispute.	The  dispute  last  imagined   wouldundoubtedly  be an industrial dispute if the foreman  was  aworkman for then it would be entirely within the  definitionof an industrial dispute.  Now suppose the foreman was not aworkman.  Can it be said that then the dispute would not  bean industrial dispute ? Would the interest of the workmen inthe dispute be any the less or in any way different  becausethe foreman whose dismissal was demanded was not a workman ?I conceive it impossible to say so. Therefore if interest isthe test, the dispute that I have imagined would have to  beheld to be an industrial dispute whether or not1206the foreman concerned was a workman.Now  assume that the dispute did not arise out of  a  demandfor the dismissal of a foreman but against his dismissal  onthe  ground that he was a particularly kind and	 sympatheticman and the workmen were  happy to work under him.  In	sucha  case the interest of the workmen in the dispute would  bethe  same  as their interest in the  dispute  demanding	 theforeman's dismissal.  They would be demanding his reinstate-ment  in their own interest; they would be demanding  it  tomake sure that their work would be easy and smooth and	thatthey would be happy in the discharge of it.  Such a  disputetherefore  also has to be held to be an	 industrial  disputeand  as	 in the last case, it would make no  difference	 forthis purpose that the foreman concerned was not a workman.If  this  is  right, as I think it is,	then  similarly	 thedispute concerning the dismissal of Dr. Banerjee would be anindustrial dispute for the workmen have sufficient  personaland immediate interest in seeing that they have a doctor  oftheir  liking to look after them.  It is indeed the case  ofthe workmen that by his devotion to duty and good  behaviourDr. Banerjee became very popular with the workmen.   Whetherthe  contention	 of  the workmen is  justified	or  not	 andwhether	 it  would  be upheld by the Tribunal  or  not,	 arewholly	different  matters and do not  affect  the  questionwhether	 in  an	 industrial dispute the work.  men  must  beinterested.   It is enough to say that I find no  reason  tothink  that  the appellant had no interest  in	the  disputeconcerning  the	 dismissal of Dr.  Banerjee.   Therefore,  Iwould  hold  that even if it is necessary to  constitute  anindustrial dispute that workmen must have an interest in it,the dispute before us is one in which the appellants' have adirect	and  substantial interest and it  is  an  industrialdispute.For  myself  however I would not make the  interest  of	 theworkmen	 in the dispute a condition of the existence  of  anindustrial dispute.  The Act does not do so.  I repeat	thatit would be impossible to de no1207such  interest.	 In my view, such a condition  would  defeatthe  object  of	 the Act.  It is  said	that  otherwise	 theworkmen	 would be able to raise disputes in which they	werenot  interested.  Supposing they did, the Government is	 notbound  to  refer  such disputes for  adjudication.   Take  aconcrete case.	Suppose the workmen raise a dispute that themanager	 of the concern should have a higher pay.  It  wouldbe for the Government to decide whether, the dispute  shouldbe referred for adjudication or not.  The Government is	 notbound to refer.	 Now, how is the Government to decide ? Thatmust depend on the Government's evaluation of the situation.That this is the intention is clear from the object that theAct has in view.  I will here read from the judgment of	 theFederal Courtin Western India Automobile Association case(1)what the object of the Act is.	It was said at PP. 331-332." We shall next examine the Act to determine its scope.	 TheAct  is stated in the preamble to be one providing  for	 theinvestigation  and settlement of industrial  disputes.	 Anyindustrial dispute as defined by the Act may be reported  toGovernment  who may take such steps as seem to it  expedientfor  promoting conciliation or settlement.  It may refer  itto  an Industrial Court for advice or it may refer it to  anIndustrial  Tribunal  for  adjudication.   The	 legislationsubstitutes  for  free	bargaining  between  the  parties  abinding award by an impartial tribunal.	 Now, in many  casesan  industrial dispute starts with the making of  number  ofdemands by workmen.  If the demandsare not acceptable to theemployer-and  that  is what often happens-it  results  in  adismissal  of  the leaders and eventually in a	strike.	  Nomachinery for reconciliation and settlement of such disputescan  be considered effective unless it provides	 within	 itsscope a solution for cases of employees who are dismissed insuch conditions and who are usually the first victims in  anindustrial dispute.  If reinstatement of such persons cannotbe brought about by(1)  [1949] F.C.R- 321.1208conciliation  or adjudication, it is difficult, if  not	 im-possible, in many cases to restore industrial peace which isthe object of the legislation ".This  is the view of the object of the Act that is  acceptedby  all	 including the decisions in  Narendra	Kumar  Sen'scase(2)	 and United Commercial Bank case (2).	In  NarendraKumar Sen's case (1) Chagla C. J.said at p. 130:"The  Industrial  Disputes  Act was enacted,  as  Mr.  Desairightly	 says,	to  bring  about  industrial  peace  in	 thecountry, to avoid conflicts between employers and labourers,to prevent strikes and lock-outs, to see that the productionin  our	 country does not suffer by reason of  constant	 andcontinuous labour troubles ". Therefore in deciding  whetherto  refer  or  not, the Government is to be  guided  by	 thequestion  whether  the	dispute is such as  to	disturb	 theindustrial   peace  and	 hamper	 production.   I   find	  nodifficulty  in	thinking that the Government  would  realisethat  there  was  no risk of the peace	being  disturbed  orproduction being hampered by the dispute raised by the work-men  demanding	a higher salary for the manager,  for  beingnormal	men  the  workmen  were not  likely  to	 suffer	 theprivations  of a strike to enforce their demand for a  causeof this nature.	 The Government must be left to decide	thisprimary	 question for itself, and therefore  the  Governmentmust be left to decide in each case whether the workmen	 hadsufficient  interest in the dispute.  If Government  thoughtthat the workmen had no such interest as would lead them  todisturb	 industrial  peace  by strike or  otherwise  if	 thedispute	 was  not  ended, the Government might	not  in	 itsdiscretion refer the dispute for adjudication by a tribunal.It  must  be left free to decide as it thinks  best  in	 theinterest  of  the country.  It is not for the Court  to	 laydown  rigid principles of interest which interfere with	 theGovernment's discretion, for that might defeat the object ofthe  Act.  If the Government feels that the dispute is	suchthat it might lead to the disruption of industrial peace, itis the policy of the Act that it should exercise its  powersunder it(1) (1953) 55 Bom.  L.R. I25(2) [1952]  L.L.J. 782.1209to prevent that.  Assume a case in which the workmen  raiseda dispute without having what the court considers sufficientinterest to make it an industrial dispute and therefore,  onthe  matter coming to the court the dispute was held not  tobe an industrial dispute.  Upon that the Government's  handswould be tied and it would not be able to have that  disputeresolved by the processes contemplated in the Act.   Supposenow that, the workmen then go on strike and industrial peaceis  disturbed and production hamper. ed. The object  of	 theAct would then have been defeated.  And why ? Because it wassaid  that  it was not a dispute in which the  workmen	wereinterested and therefore not a dispute which was capable  ofbeing adjusted under the provisions of the Act.	 It would beno answer to say that the workmen would not go on strike  insuch  a	 case.	 If  they  would  not,	neither	 would	 theGovernment refer the dispute for adjudication under the	 Actand  it	 would	not be necessary for  the  court  to  decidewhether the workmen were interested in the dispute or not orwhether	 the  dispute  was an  industrial  dispute  or	not.Therefore,  I think that it is not necessary to say  that  adispute	 is an industrial dispute within the meaning of	 theAct only when workmen are interested in it.  Such a test  ofan  industrial dispute would make it justiciable  by  courtsand also introduce a rigidity in the application of the	 Actwhich is incompatible with the fast changing concepts it hasin  view and so defeat the object of the Act.  It is  enoughto  assume  that as normal men, workmen would  not  raise  adispute or threaten industrial peace on account of it unlessthey are interested in it.I wish however to make it clear, should any, doubt exist  asto  this,  that I do not intend to be understood  as  sayingthat the question whether a dispute is an industrial disputeor  not	 is never justiciable by courts of law	and  that  adispute is an industrial dispute only if the Government saysso.   Such  a larger question does not arise in	 this  case.All  that  I  say  is  that it is  not	a  condition  of  anindustrial dispute that workmen must be interested in it andno question of interest1210falls  for decision by a court if it can be called  upon  todecide	whether a dispute is an industrial dispute  or	not.The  question of interest can only be of practical value  inthat  it  helps the Government to decide whether  a  disputeshould be referred for adjudication or not.Then  it  is said that if workmen were allowed	to  raise  adispute	 concerning a person who was not a workman, then  itwould be possible for such a person to have his dispute withthe employer adjudicated through the workmen.  This case wasput.  Suppose the manager wanted his salary to be  increasedbut  could  not make the employer agree to  his	 demand,  hecould  then  instigate	the workmen and make  them  raise  adispute	 that his salary should be increased and if  such  adispute	 is  an	 industrial dispute and the  award  goes  infavour of the workmen then the result would be that the	 Actcould be used for settling disputes between the manager	 andhis  employer,	a dispute which the Act did  not  intend  toconcern	 itself	 with.	So it is said that the words  "	 anyperson" in s. :2 (k) cannot include an employee who is not awork. man.  I am unable to agree.  First, in interpreting anAct, the Court is not entitled to assume that persons  woulduse its provisions dishonestly.	 The words in the Act cannothave a different meaning than their natural meaning  becauseotherwise there would be a possibility of the Act being usedfor  a	purpose	 for which it was  not	meant.	 The  remedyagainst this possibility is provided in the Act, in that  ithas  given complete freedom to the Government not  to  refersuch  a	 dispute.  It is not necessary to  meet	 a  somewhatremote	apprehension that the Act may be used  for  purposesother  than  those for which it was meant, to  construe	 itslanguage  in a manner different from that which	 it  plainlybears,.	  Lastly,  in  doing  this  many  cases	 like  Chose-earlier mentioned including the present, which are  clearlycases  of industrial disputes would have to be	excluded  inthe   attempt	to  prevent  by	 interpretation	  a   remoteapprehension  of  a misuse of the Act.	This would  do	moreharm than good.12111  have	 therefore  come to the conclusion  that  a  disputeconcerning  a  person  who  is	not  a	workman	 may  be  anindustrial dispute within s. 2 (k).  As it has not been saidthat  the  dispute with which we are concerned	is  for	 anyother  reason  not an industrial dispute, I  hold  that	 theIndustrial Tribunal had full jurisdiction to adjudicate thatdispute and should have done so.I would therefore allow the appeal and send the case back tothe Industrial Tribunal for adjudication in accordance	withlaw.ORDER OF THE COURT.In  view  of  the opinion of the  majority,  the  appeal  isdismissed.  But there will be no order as to costs.Appeal dismissed.