PETITIONER:THE TATA IRON & STEEL CO., LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHARDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/02/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.BOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1958 AIR  452		  1958 SCR 1355ACT:Sales  Tax-Provincial  legislation imposing tax	 in  certaincircumstances-Validity-Power   of  Provincial	Legislature-Retrospective levy, legality of-Theory of territorial nexus,if  applicable Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947 (No.  XIX of  1947)as  amended by Bihar Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1948 (VI  of1949), ss. 4(1), 2(g).HEADNOTE:The appellant company, carrying on business as	manufacturerof iron and steel, with its factory and works at  Jamshedpurin Bihar, was assessed to sales tax for two periods prior tothe  Constitution, under the Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947	(No.XIX  Of 1947), enacted by the Bihar Legislature in  exerciseof  its exclusive power under the Government of	 India	Act,1935.  The company used to send its goods from Jamshedpur tovarious parts of India.	 In the railway receipt the  companyitself figured as the consignee, it paid the freight and thereceipt was sent either to its branch offices or bankers  tobe  handed  over to the purchaser when he  paid	 the  price.From the amounts shown as gross turn-over in the two returnsfor  the  two  periods, the  company  claimed  deduction  ofcertain	 amounts, being the valuable consideration  for	 thegoods manufactured in Bihar but sold, delivered and consumedoutside,  on the ground that in none of the transactions  inrespect	 of the said sums did property in the goods pass  tothe  purchasers	 in Bihar.  The	 appellant  claimed  furtherdeductions  on	account of the railway freight paid  by	 it.The  Sales Tax Officer disallowed both the claims and  addedthe amounts of sales tax realised by the appellant from	 itspurchasers  to the taxable turnover.  The  company  appealedagainst	 the orders of assessment, but the  Commissioner  ofSales  Tax dismissed its appeals.  The Board of Revenue,  inrevision,  confirmed  the orders of  the  Commissioner	withcertain modifications and remanded the matters to the  SalesTax  Officer.  On the appellant's application for  referenceof certain questions of law, the Board referred them to	 theHigh  Court.  One of them related to the legality of  addingthe Sales Tax to the turn-over and was answered in favour ofthe appellant and the respondent did not appeal.  The  otherquestions  decided by the High Court against  the  appellantrelated	 to  the  vires	 of the	 Act  and  the	validity  ofretrospective  levy of sales tax under S. 4(1) of  the	Act.The appellant's contentions in the appeals were that the taxlevied	under s. 4(1) read with S. 2(g) second proviso,	 cl.(II), of the Act, was not a sales tax within the meaning  ofEntry  48 in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the  Govern-ment  of  India Act, 1935, but was in the nature  of  exciseduty 1721356which a provincial legislature had no power to impose,	thatthe  theory of territorial nexus was inapplicable  to  salestax and, in  any case, there was no real or sufficient nexusin  the	 present cases and that retrospective  levy  of	 thesales  tax under s. 4(1) Of the Act destroyed  the  indirectnature	of  the	 tax, thus making it a	direct	tax  on	 thedealer which could not be passed on to the consumer:Held, (per Das, C. J., Venkatarama Aiyar, S. K. Das and A.K.Sarkar,	 jj.,  Bose, J. dissenting),  that  the	 contentionsraised	on     behalf  of the appellant must  be  negatived.The provisions of S.	 4(1)  read  with  S.  2(g),  secondproviso, of the Bihar Sales Tax Act, as amended by the BiharSales  Tax (Amendment) Act, 1948, (VI Of 1949), were  withinthe  legislative  competence  of  the  Legislature  of	 theProvince of Bihar.  Both before and after the amendment, theword 'sale' as used in s. 4(1) and as defined by S. 2(g)  ofthe  Act, meant the transfer of property in the goods  sold.The second proviso added by the amending Act did not  extendthat  meaning so as to include a contract of sale.  What  itactually did was to lay down certain circumstances in  whicha  sale, although completed elsewhere, was to be  deemed  tohave  taken  place in Bihar.  Those  circumstances  did	 notconstitute the sale, but only located the situs of the sale.Sales  Tax  Officer, Pilibhit v. Messrs.  Budh	Prakash	 jaiPrakash, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 243, distinguished.Nor  was it correct to contend that the tax levied under  s.4(1)  read  with  S. 2(g) Of the Act was in  the  nature  ofexcise	duty.	Under cl. (ii) of the second proviso  to  S.2(g)  of the Act the producer or manufacturer became  liableto  pay the tax not because he produced or manufactured	 thegoods but because he sold them.Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna and Sons, [1942] F.C.R.go  and Governor General v. Province of Madras, (1945)	L.R.72 I.A. 91, referred to.There  can be no doubt that the theory of territorial  nexusdoes apply to sales tax legislation.  Although sales tax canbe levied only on a completed sale, this theory has its	 usein  indicating	the circumstances in which the	tax  may  beenforced  in a particular case.	 One or more of the  severalingredients of a sale may furnish the connection between thetaxing State and the sale.State of Bombay v. United Motors (India) Ltd., [1953] S.C.R.1069,  Poppatlal Shah v. The State of Madras, [1953]  S.C.R.677 and The State of Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala, [1957]S.C.R. 874, relied on.Bengal	Immunity  Co. Ltd. v. The State of Bihar,  [1955]  2S.C.R. 603, considered.Case law reviewed.1357As  in a sale of goods, the goods must necessarily  play  animportant  part, the circumstances mentioned in the  provisoto s. 2(g) of the Act, namely, the presence of the goods  inBihar  at  the	date  of the  agreement	 of  sale  or  theirproduction or manufacture there must be held to constitute asufficient  nexus between the taxing province and  the	salewherever that might take place.Governor  General v. Raleigh Investment, [1944] F.C.R.	229,relied on.Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna and Sons, [1942] F.C.R.go, distinguished.It would not be correct to contend that the theory of  nexusmight  lead  to multiple taxation  or  obstruct	 inter-Statetrade.	Article 286(2) of the Constitution and the  relevantentries in the Legislative List are a complete safeguard  toany such contingency.Although as a matter of economic theory, sales tax maybe  anindirect  tax realisable from the consumer, it need  not  belegally	 so  and is not so under the Bihar  Sales  Tax	Act,1947, which imposes the primary liability on the seller.   Abuyer,	moreover,  is not bound to pay sales  tax  over	 andabove  the agreed sale price unless he is by contract  boundto  do	so.   There  can, therefore, be	 no  scope  for	 theargument that the retrospective enforcement of the tax underS. 4(1) of the Act could destroy the character of the tax orthat  it was beyond the legislative competence of the  BiharLegislature.Love  v. Norman Wright (Builders) Ltd., L.R. (1944)  1	K.B.484, referred to.Per Bose, J.-Sales tax can be imposed only on the sale.	  Itis,  therefore, wrong to look to the goods or the  agreementto  sell  or any other elements that constitute	 a  sale  inorder to impose the tax.A State can tax a sale of goods that takes place within	 itsboundary.   It has no power to tax extra-territorially,	 andsince  a  completed sale can have only one  situs  no  StateLegislature  can  be  allowed to break up a  sale  into	 itscomponent  parts, which are separate and distinct  from	 thesale  itself, and by an application of the theory  of  nexusclaim that ,,he sale wholly took place within it.  The nexuscan  only be in respect of the entire sale, wherever it	 maytake place and not of its several parts.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 412 and 413of 1956.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedOctober 17, 1955, of the Patna High Court in M.J.C. No.	 577of 1953, made on reference by the Board of Revenue, Bihar inAppeals Nos. 495 and 496 of 1952.1358M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General, for  India,  RajeshwariPrasad and S. P. Varma, for the appellant.Mahabir Prasad, Advocate-General for the State of Bihar	 andR. C. Prasad, for the respondent.1958.	February 19.  The Judgment of Das, C.J.	 VenkataramaAiyar,	S. K. Das and Sarkar, JJ.  ",as delivered by Das  C.J. Bose, J. delivered a separate judgment.DAS C.	J.-These two appeals, which have been filed with thespecial	 leave	granted by an order made by  this  Court  onApril 3, 1956, and which have been consolidated together  bythe same order, are dire-led against the judgment pronouncedby   the   Patna  high	Court  on  October  17,	  1955,	  inMiscellaneous  Judicial	 Case  No.  577	 of  1953,  decidingcertain questions refer. red to it by the Board of  Revenue,Bihar under s. 25 of the Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947 (No.	 XIXof 1947) hereinafter referred to as the 1947 Act.  The	saidreferences  arose out of two orders passed by the  Board  ofRevenue in revision of two sales tax assessment orders	madeagainst the appellant company.The  appellant company is a company incorporated  under	 theIndian	Companies Act.	Its registered office is in  Bombay;its  factory  and works are at Jamshedpur in  the  State  ofBihar and its head sales' office is in Calcutta in the Stateof West Bengal.	 It has store yards in the States of Madras,Bombay,	 West  Bengal,	Uttar  Pradesh,	 Hyderabad,   MadhyaPradesh,  Punjab  and  Andhra.	It carries  on	business  asmanufacturer  of iron and steel and is a  registered  dealerunder  the 1947 Act, the registration No. being S.  C.	905.Its  course  of dealing is thus described  in  the  judgmentunder appeal:-"  The intending purchaser has to apply for a permit to	 theIron  and  Steel Controller at Calcutta,  who  forwards	 therequisition  to	 the  Chief Sales Officer  of  the  assesseeworking	 in  Calcutta.	The Chief Sales	 Officer  thereaftermakes a "works order" and for. wards it to Jamshedpur.	 The"  works order " mentions the complete specification of	 thegoods required.1359After  the  receipt  of the  "works  order"  the  Jamshedpurfactory	 initiates  a  "  rolling "  or	 "  manufacturing  "programme.  After the goods are manufactured, the Jamshedpurfactory sends the invoice to the Controller of Accounts	 whoprepares  the  forwarding notes, and on the basis  of  theseforwarding notes, railway receipts are prepared.  The  goodsare  loaded  in the wagons at Jamshedpur and  despatched  tovarious	 stations, but the consignee in the railway  receiptis  the assessee itself and the freight also is paid by	 theassessee.   The	 railway  receipts are sent  either  to	 thebranch offices of the assessee or to its bankers, and  afterthe purchaser pays the amount of consideration, the  railwayreceipt	 is delivered to him.  These facts are admitted	 andthe correctness of these facts are not disputed by the Stateof Bihar."The  appellant	company	 was  separately  assessed  for	 twoperiods:  (1) from July 1, 1947 to March 31, 1948,  and	 (2)from April 1, 1948 to March 31, 1949.  For the first  periodthe  appellant company filed a return under s. 12(1) of	 the1947  Act  before  the Sales Tax  Officer  showing  a  grossturnover of Rs. 12,80,15,327-8-5.  From this gross  turnoverthe  appellant	company	 claimed  to deduct  a	sum  of	 Rs.2,88,60,787-13-0 being the amount of valuable  considerationfor  the  goods manufactured at Jamshedpur in the  State  ofBihar but sold, delivered and consumed outside that State onthe  ground that in none of the transactions in	 respect  ofthe  said  sum	did the property in the goods  pass  to	 thepurchasers  in	the State of Bihar.  The  appellant  companyfurther	 claimed  a  deduction of  Rs.	1,10,87,125-13-0  onaccount	 of  railway freight, actually paid by	it  for	 thedespatch  of  the  goods.  The	Sales-tax  Officer,  by	 hisassessment  order dated July 22, 1949, disallowed  both	 theclaims	for deduction and, on the other hand added a sum  ofRs.  13,66,496-11-0, being the amount of sales tax  realisedby the appellant company from its purchasers, to its taxableturnover  and  assessed the appellant company to  sales	 taxamounting  to Rs. 15,31,374-5-9.  For the second period	 theappellant company filed a return showing a gross turnover ofRs. 21,64,45,450-0-0.1360From  this  gross turnover the appellant company  claimed  adeduction  of  Rs.  10,71,66,233-11-0 being  the  amount  ofvaluable consideration for goods manufactured at  Jamshedpurin  the	 State of Bihar, but  sold, delivered  and  consumedoutside	 that  State  on the  same  ground  as	hereinbeforementioned.   The appellant company also claimed a  deductionof Rs. 40,89,973-9-0 on account of railway freight  actuallypaid  by  it for the despatch of the goods.  The  Sales	 TaxOfficer	 by his assessment order dated September  24,  1949,disallowed  both  the  claims  and  added  the	sum  of	 Rs.22,37,919-4-0, being the amount of sales tax realised by theappellant  company  from  its  purchasers,  to	its  taxableturnover  and  assessed the appellant company to  sales	 taxamounting to Rs. 28,30,458-6-0.Against	 these two assessment orders the  appellant  companypreferred  two	appeals under S. 24 of the 1947 Act  to	 theCommissioner of Sales Tax of Chota Nagpur who, on April	 29,1950, dismissed both the appeals. The appellant company wentup  to	the Board of Revenue on	 two  revision	applicationsagainst the two	    orders  of the Commissioner.  The  Boardof Revenue,by its order dated August 30, 1952, confirmed theorders	of the Commissioner with certain  modifications	 andremanded the cases to the Sales Tax Officer.  The  appellantcompany applied under S. 25 of the 1947 Act-to the Board  ofRevenue	 in  Reference Cases Nos. 495 and 496  of  1952	 forreference of certain questions of law to the High Court.  Bya  common order dated October 5, 1953, made in the said	 tworeferences  the	 Board	of Revenue  referred  the  followingquestions of law to the High Court for its decision" (1) Is the Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947, as amended in  1948,ultra  vires  the  Provincial Legislature  in  view  of	 theextended  meaning of the expression taxes on sale  of  goodsgiven  in  the	Act in the light of the	 provisions  of	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935 ?(2)Are the provisions of section 2(g) of the 1947 Act  ultravires the Provincial Legislature ?1361(3)  Is	 it  legal  to	include sales  tax  in	the  taxableturnover  of an assessee like the petitioner ?(4)  Was the Bihar Sales Tax (Amendment) Act of 1948 legallyextended  to Chotanagpur ? (5) Were the levy and collection of sales taxes for periodsprior to the 26th January 1950, under the Sales Tax Act thenin   force  rendered  illegal  by  the	provisions  of	 theConstitution ?(6)  Was  the  Commissioner, who passed orders,	 in  appeal,after the Constitution came into force, bound to decide	 theappeal	according to the provisions of the  Constitution  inrespect	 of taxes levied or sought to be levied for  periodsprior to the 26th January, 1950, when the Constitution	cameinto force ?"Out  of these six questions, question No. 3 was	 decided  infavour of the appellant company and the respondent State hasnot preferred any appeal against that decision or questionedits correctness.  Question No. 4 was not pressed before	 theHigh  Court and does not survive before us.  Questions	Nos.1, 2, 5 and 6 were decided against the appellant company andthe  two consolidated appeals are directed against the	HighCourt's	 decision  on these questions.	It will	 be  noticedthat  questions	 Nos.  I and 2, in effect,  raise  the	sameproblem,  namely,  as  to  the vires of	 the  1947  Act	 andquestions  Nos. 5 and 6 are concerned with the	validity  ofthe  retrospective  levy  of  sales tax	 by  reason  of	 theamendment of s. 4 of the 1947 Act.The following points, as formulated by the learned Attorney-General appearing for the appellant company, have been urgedbefore us in support of these appeals:" (1) The tax levied under s. 4(1) read with s. 2(g), secondproviso, cl. (ii), is not a tax on sale within the  meaningof  Entry  48  in List II of the  Seventh  Schedule  to	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935.(2)  The doctrine of nexus is not applicable to sales tax.(3)  In any event the nexus in the present case is not	realand sufficient but is illusory.1362(4)Having  regard  to the provisions of	 the  law  mentionedabove,	the  tax levied is in the nature of duty  of  exciserather than a tax on sale.(5)The	retrospective levy by reason of the amendment of  s.4(1)  destroys its character as a sales tax and makes  it  adirect	tax on the dealer instead of an indirect tax  to  bepassed on to the consumer."In order to appreciate the arguments that have been advancedbefore	us  on the points noted above, it  is  necessary  torefer  to the relevant statutory provisions, which  were  inforce at the material times.  Section 99, of the  Governmentof  India  Act, 1935, authorised a  Provincial	Legislature,subject to the provisions of that Act, to make laws for	 theProvince  or for any part thereof.  Section 100(3)  of	thatAct  provided  that,  subject  to  the	two  preceding	sub-sections,  the Provincial Legislature had, and	the  FederalLegislature had not, power to make laws for any Province  orany  part  thereof  with  respect  to  any  of	the  mattersenumerated  in List 11 of the Seventh Schedule to that	Act.The matter enumerated in Entry 48 in List II was as follows:"  Taxes on the sale of goods and on advertisements." It  isin  exercise of this legislative power that  the  ProvincialLegislature of Bihar passed the 1947 Act which received	 theassent	of the Governor General on June 21, 1947,  and	cameinto force on July 1, 1947, by virtue of a notification madein the official gazette under s. 1(3) of the said Act.	 Therelevant  portion of s. 4(1) of the 1947 Act, which was	 thecharging  section, was, prior to its  amendment	 hereinaftermentioned, expressed in the following terms:-"  Subject to the provisions of sections 5, 6, 7 and  8	 andwith effect from such date as the Provincial Government may,by notification in the official gazette, appoint, being	 notearlier	  than	 30  days  after  the  date  of	  the	saidnotification, every dealer whose gross turnover -during	 theyear  immediately preceding the commencement of this Act  onsales  which  had  taken place both  in	 and  outside  Biharexceeded  Rs. 10,000 shall be liable to pay tax	 under	thisAct1363on sales which have taken place in Bihar after the date	 wasnotified."It  should  be noted that, although the 1947 Act  came	intoforce on July 1, 1947, by virtue of a notification publishedin the official gazette under s. 1(3) thereof, the  chargingsection quoted above did not come into operation because, byits  own  terms, it required a further notification  in	 theofficial gazette to bring it into effect.  For some  reason,not  apparent on the record, the Provincial  Government	 didnot  issue any notification as contemplated by s. 4(1).	  Tocure this omission Ordinance III of 1948 was promulgated  bythe  Governor amending s. 4(1)(a) of the 1947 Act.   Section4(1), as amended, read as follows:"  Subject to the provisions of sections 5, 6, 7 and  8	 andwith effect from the commencement of this Act, every dealer,whose  turnover	 during the year immediately  preceding	 thedate  of such commencement, on sales which have taken  placeboth  in  and outside Bihar exceeded Rs.  10,000,  shall  beliable	to pay tax under this Act on sales which have  takenplace in Bihar on and from the date of such commencement."On  March  22, 1949, Ordinance III of 1948 was	replaced  byBihar	Sales  Tax  (Amendment)	 Act,  1948  (VI  of   1949)hereinafter referred to as the amending Act.  Section 16  ofthis  amending	Act provided that the  substituted  s.	4(1)should form part of the 1947 Act and should always be deemedto   have   formed  part  thereof  with	 effect	  from	 itscommencement,  that  is	 to  say,  from	 July  1,  1947,  ashereinbefore mentioned.	 Two things should be noted, namely,(1)  that the person sought to be charged was  every  dealerwhose  gross  " turnover" during the specified period  on  "sales  "  which had taken place both in	 and  outside  Biharexceeded  Rs. 10,000 and (2) that the liability to  pay	 taxwas on " sales " which had taken place in Bihar on and	fromthe  date  of such commencement.  This takes us back  to  s.2(g)  which  defines  " sale ". The  material  part  of	 thedefinition  of " sale ", previous to the amendment  made  bythe amending Act,1731364 read as follows:"  'Sale'  means, with all its	grammatical  variations	 andcognate	 expressions, any transfer of property in goods	 forcash  or deferred payment or other valuable   consideration,including  a transfer of property in goods involved  in	 theexecution  of  contract	 but does not  include	a  mortgage,hypothecation, charge or pledge:Provided ..................................................Provided  further  that	 notwithstanding  anything  to	 thecontrary  in  the  Indian Sale of Goods Act,  1930  (III  of1930), the sale of any goods which are actually in Bihar  atthe  time when, in respect thereof, the contract of sale  asdefined	 in section 4 of that Act is made,  shall,  whereverthe said contract of sale is made be deemed for the  purposeof this Act to have been made in Bihar. ..........................................................Section	 2 of the amending Act amended s. 2(g) of  the	1947Act  by	 substituting  a  new proviso to  cl.  (g)  for	 theoriginal  second proviso thereto.  The material part  of  s.2(g), thus amended, read as follows:"  'Sale  'means, with all its	grammatical  variations	 andcognate	 expressions, any transfer of property in goods	 forcash  or deferred payment or other  valuable  consideration,including  a transfer of property in goods involved  in	 theexecution  of  contract	 but does not  include	a  mortgage,hypothecation, charge, or pledge:Provided .................................................Provided  further  that	 notwithstanding  anything  to	 thecontrary  in  the  Indian Sale of Goods Act,  1930  (111  of1930), the sale of any goods-(i)  which  are	 actually  in Bihar at	the  time  when,  inrespect thereof, the contract of sale as defined in  section4 of that Act is made, or(ii) which  are	 produced or manufactured in  Bihar  by	 theproducer  or  manufacturer  thereof,  shall,  wherever	 thedelivery or contract of sale is made, be1365deemed	for the purposes of this Act to have taken place  inBihar.The amending Act by s. 3 substituted for the old sub-s.	 (1)of s. 4 of the 1947 Act the following sub-' section, namely:"  (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 5, 6, 7  and  8and  with  effect from the commencement of this	 Act,  everydealer	whose  gross turnover during  the  year	 immediatelypreceding the date of such commencement, on sales which havetaken  place both in and outside Bihar exceeded	 Rs.  10,000shall  be  liable to pay tax under this Act on	sales  whichhave taken place in Bihar on and from the date of such	com-mencement:Provided that the tax shall not be payable on sales involvedin  the	 execution  of	a contract which  is  shown  to	 thesatisfaction  of the Commissioner to have been entered	intoby the dealer concerned on or before the 1st day of October,1944.  "Although  the  amending	 Act  received	the  assent  of	 theGovernor  General on March 15, 1949, it came into  force  onOctober 1, 1948, as provided in s. 1(2) thereof.  Section 16of  the amending Act, however, provided that  the  amendmentmade by s. 3 should form part and should be deemed always tohave formed part of the 1947 Act as if the said Act had beenenacted as so amended from the commencement thereof, that isto say, from July 1, 1947.  The 1947 Act was further amendedin 1951 by Bihar Act VII of 1951 and again in 1953 by  BiharAct  XIV  of  1953, but we are not,  in	 the  present  case,concerned with those amendments.Although the charging section, namely, s. 4(1), as  amended,operates  from	July  1, 1947, the  definition	of  sale  asamended,  became  operative  only  from	 October  1,   1948.Therefore, the definition of " sale ", as it stood prior  tothe  amendment,	 was  applicable to all sales  made  by	 theappellant   throughout	 the   first   period	hereinbeforementioned,  i.e., the period from July 1, 1947 to March	 31,1948 and also to those made during the period from April  1,1948  to  October 1, 1948, which was only a portion  of	 thesecond1366period	hereinbefore  mentioned and the	 amended  definitionapplied	 to  all  sales made by	 the  appellant	 during	 theremaining  portion of the second period, i.e., from  October1, 1948 to March 31, 1949.Bearing	 in mind the relevant provisions of the 1947 Act  asthey  stood  both  before and after the	 amendment  and	 theperiod of their applicability we now proceed to consider thepoints	urged  before  us by the  learned  Attorney  Generalappearing for the-appellant company.Re.   Points Nos. 1 and 4: It will be convenient to take  upthose  two  points together for they have  been	 dealt	withtogether  by the learned Attorney General.  The validity  ofs. 4(1) read with s. 2(g), second proviso, is challenged  intwo ways.  In the first place it is urged that s. 100(3)  ofthe Government of India Act, 1935 read with Entry 48 in ListII   of	  the  Seventh	Schedule  thereto   authorised	 theLegislature  of Bihar to make a law with respect to  tax  onthe sale of goods.  " Sale of Goods ", as a legal topic, haswell  defined  and  well  understood  implications  both  inEnglish and Indian Law.	 The English Common Law relating  tosale of goods has been codified in the English Sale of GoodsAct,  1893.  In India the matter was originally governed  bythe  provisions of Chapter VII of the Indian  Contract	Act,1872.	Those  provisions have since been  replaced  by	 theIndian	Sale of Goods Act, Act III of 1930.   Our  attentionhas been drawn to s. 4 of the Indian Sale of Goods Act whichclearly makes a distinction between a sale and an  agreementfor  sale.   It is pointed out that that section  groups   "sales " and " agreements to sell " under the single  genericname of " contract of sale ", following in this respect	 thescheme	of  English  Sale of Goods Act, 1893,  and  that  ittreats	" sales " and "agreements to sell " as two  separatecategories,  the  vital point of  distinction  between	thembeing that whereas in a sale there is a transfer of propertyin  goods from the seller to the buyer, there is none in  anagreement to sell.  It is then urged, on the authority of  adecision of this Court in the Sales Tax Officer, Pilibhit v.Messrs.	 Budh Prakash1367Jai  Prakash (1) that there having thus existed at the	timeof  the	 enactment of the Government of India Act,  1935,  awell  defined and well established distinction between	a  "sale  " and an " agreement to sell " it would be  proper  tointerpret  the expression " sale of goods " in Entry  48  inthe  sense  in	which it was used  in  legislation  both  inEngland	 and  in  India and to hold that  it  authorised  animposition  of	a tax only when there was a  completed	saleinvolving   the	 transfer  of  title  in  the  goods   sold.Reference is then made to the decision of the Federal  Courtin the case of Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna and Sons(2) where the Federal Court at page 101 observed that in thecase of sales tax the liability to tax arose on the occasionof a sale " which Patanjali Sastri C. J. in his judgment  inthe  State  of	Bombay v. United  Motors  (India)  Ltd.	 (3)described  as " the taxable event.  " The argument  is	thatthe  Bihar Legislature could only make a law imposing a	 taxon  the sale of goods, that is to say, on a  concluded	saleinvolving  the transfer of property in the goods  sold	fromthe seller to the buyer as contemplated by the Sale of GoodsAct. The Bihar Legislature could not, by giving an  extendeddefinition to the word "sale", extend its legislative  powerunder  Entry  48 in List II of the Seventh Schedule  to	 theGovernment  of	India Act, 1935, so as to impose  a  tax  onanything which is short of a sale.  For our present  purposeno   exception	need  be  taken	 to  the  proposition	thusformulated and indeed in Budh Prakash Jai Prakash's case (1)this  Court  struck down that part of the definition  of  itsale " in s. 2(h) of the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act,  1948,which enlarged the definition of " sale " so as to include "forward contracts".  But is the position the same here?	  Wethink  not.  It will be noticed that s. 4(1) imposed on	 thedealer the liability to pay a tax on " sale " as defined  ins. 2(g).  Both before and after the amendment of s. 2(g) theprincipal  part of the definition meant the transfer of	 theproperty in goods.  All that the second proviso did was	 notto extend the(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 243, 247.	   (2) [1942] F.C.R. 90.(3) [1953] S.C.R. 1069, 1088.definition  of "" sale but only to locate the I" sale  "  incertain	 circumstances mentioned in that proviso  in  Bihar.The  basis  of liability under s 4(1)  remained	 as  before,namely,	 to pay tax on " sale . The fact of the goods  beingin  Bihar  at  the  time of the	 contract  of  sale  or	 theproduction  or	manufacture  of goods in Bihar	did  not  byitself	constitute a " sale " and did not by itself  attractthe  tax.   The taxable event still remained the  "  sale  "resulting  in  the transfer of ownership in the	 thing	soldfrom  the  seller to the buyer.	 No tax	 liability  actuallyaccrued	 until	there was a concluded sale in the  sense  oftransfer of title.  It was only when the property passed andthe " sale " took place that the liability for paying  salestax  under the 1947 Act arose.	There was no enlargement  ofthe  meaning  of  " sale " but the  proviso  only  raised  afiction	 on the strength of the facts mentioned therein	 anddeemed	the  " sale " to have taken place in  Bihar.   Thosefacts  did not by themselves constitute a" sale " but  thosefacts were used for locating the situs of the sale in Bihar.It follows, therefore, that the. provisions of s. 4(1)	readwith   s.  2(g),  second  proviso,  were  well	within	 thelegislative competency of the Legislature of the Province ofBihar.The  vires of s. 4(1) read with s. 2(g), second proviso,  isalso  questioned on the ground that it is in reality  not  atax  on	 the  sale of goods but is in substance	 a  duty  ofexcise	within	the  meaning of Entry 45 in List  I  of	 theSeventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935,	withrespect to which the Provincial Legislature could not, unders. 100 of that Act, make any law.  Our attention is drawn tocl. (ii) of the second proviso which contemplated a sale  ofthe  goods by the producer or manufacturer thereof.   It  isurged that, according to this clause, tax was not imposed onall  sales of goods produced or manufactured in	 Bihar,	 butwas imposed only on those goods produced or manufactured  inBihar  which were sold by the producer or manufacturer.	  Itis  pointed out, as and by way of an illustration,  that  ifthe  goods produced or manufactured in Bihar were taken	 outof  the	 Province  of  Bihar and then  gifted  away  by	 theproducer or1369manufacturer to a person 'outside Bihar and that person soldthe  goods, he would not be liable under the proviso.	Thisargument,  however, overlooks the fact that under  cl.	(ii)the  producer or manufacturer became liable to pay  the	 taxnot  because  he  produced or manufactured  the	 goods,	 butbecause he sold the goods.  In other words the tax was	laidon the producer or manufacturer only qua seller and not	 quamanufacturer or producer as pointed out in Boddu. Paidanna'scase  (1).  In the words of their Lordships of the  JudicialCommittee in Governor General v. Province of Madras (2), " aduty of excise is primarily a duty levied on a	manufactureror  producer  in respect of the	 commodity  manufactured  orproduced.   It	is a tax on goods and not on  sales  or	 theproceeds  of  sale  of	goods." If  the	 goods	produced  ormanufactured in Bihar were destroyed by fire before sale themanufacturer  or producer would not have been liable to	 payany  tax under s. 4 (1) read with s. 2 (g), second  proviso.As Gwyer C. J. said in Boddu Paidanna's Case (1) at page 102the manufacturer or producer would be "liable, if at all, toa sales tax because he sells and not because he manufacturesor produces; and he would be free from liability if he choseto give away everything which came from his factory." In ourjudgment both lines of the argument advanced- by the learnedAttorney  General in support of points and 4  are  untenableand cannot be accepted.Re.  point  No. 2: The theory of nexus has been	 applied  insupport of tax legislation in more cases than one, not	onlyin  this  country  but also in Australia  and  England.	  InWanganui-Rangitikei  Electric  Power  Board  v.	  AustralianMutual Provident Society (3) Dixon J. observed:" So long as the statute selected some fact or	circumstancewhich  provided some relation or connection with  New  SouthWales,	and adopted this as the ground of its  interference,the  validity of an enactment......... would not be open  tochallenge."The same learned Judge in Broken Hill South Ltd. v.(1)  [1942] F.C.R. 90.(3)  (1934) 50 C.L.R. 581, 600.(2) (1945) L.R. 721.A. 91, 103.1370Commissioner of Taxation (N.  S. W.)(1), said at page 375:"  If  a  connection exists, it is for	the  legislature  todecide how far it should go in the exercise of its  ,powers.As in other matters of jurisdiction or authority courts mustbe  exact  in distinguishing between ascertaining  that	 thecircumstances  over  which  the	 power	extends	 exist	 andexamining  the mode in which the power has  been  exercised.No doubt there must be some relevance to the circumstance inthe exercise of the power.  But it is of no importance	uponthe  question of validity that the liability imposed is,  ormay be, altogether disproportionate to the territorialconnection."Even  the  dissenting Judge Rich J. accepted the  theory  ofnexus at page 361:"  I  do not deny that once any connection  with  New  SouthWales  appears, the legislature of that State may make	thatconnection  the occasion or subject of the imposition  of  aliability.  But the connection with New South Wales must  bea  real one and the liability sought to be imposed  must  bepertinent to that connection."The  Estate  Duty  Assessment Act  1914-1928  which  chargedestate duty on moveable properties situate abroad which	 hadpassed from a deceased person domiciled in Australia by giftintervivos  made by him within a year of his death  was	 notstruck	down  for  extra territoriality but  was  upheld  asconstitutional in The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd.v. The Federal Commissioner of Taxation (2).The  nexus  theory  was applied in full	 force	in  GovernorGeneral v. Raleigh Investment Co. (3); Wallace Brothers	 andCo. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay	  City	 (4)and A. H. Wadia v. Commissioner of Income    Tax,     Bombay(5).  In Raleigh Investment Co.'s case(3)    the    assesseecompany	  was  a  company  incorporated	 in  England.	 Itsregistered  office  was in England. It held shares  in	nineSterling Companies incorporated(1)  (1937)  56	 C.L.R.	 337.  (2)  (1933)  49	C.L.R.	220.(3)[1944) F.C.R. 229. (4) [1948] F.C.R. 1. (5)	  [1948]F.C.R. 121.1371in  England.   Those  nine  Sterling  Companies	 carried  onbusiness  in  British India and earned	income,	 profits  orgains  in British India and declared and paid  dividends  inEngland to its shareholders including the assessee  company.Tile  assessee company was charged to income-tax under s.  4(1)  of the Indian Income-tax Act.  It should be noted	thatthe  assessee  company was not resident	 in  British  India,carried on no business in British India and made no  income,profits	 or  gains out of any business carried on by  it  inBritish India.	It invested its money and acquired shares inEngland	 in the nine Sterling Companies which  were  EnglishCompanies.   It was only when those nine Companies  declaredand  paid  dividends in England that  the  assessee  companyreally	earned	its  income, profits or gains,	out  of	 itsinvestments in England in shares of nine Sterling Companies.The  circumstance that the nine Sterling  Companies  derivedtheir  income, profits or gains, out of business carried  onby them in British India out of which they paid dividends tothe assessee company was regarded as sufficient nexus so  asto  fasten  the	 tax liability on the  assessee	 company  inrespect of the income, profits or gains, it derived from thenine  Sterling Companies.  Even such a distantly  derivativeconnection  with  the  source  of  income  was	held  as   asufficient  nexus  to enable the British Indian	 tax  autho-rities to charge the assessee company with income-tax.	 Theconclusions  reached  by Spens C. J. in	 Raleigh  InvestmentCo.'s case, (1) are formulated thus at page 253:"  If  some  connection	 exists,  the  legislature  is	 notcompelled  to measure the taxation by the degree of  benefitreceived in particular cases by the taxpayer.  This  affectsthe policy and not the validity of the legislation ".In Wallace Brothers case (2) the connection of the  assesseecompany	 with British India was not so remote as in  RaleighInvestment  Co.'s  case	 (1), for in  the  former  case	 theassessee company was a partner in a(1)  [1944] F.C.R. 229. 174(2) [1948] F.C.R. 1.1372firm  which  carried on business in British India  but	thatconnection  was	 held  to be sufficient nexus  to  bring  toBritish	 Indian	 tax not only the income, profits  or  gainsmade  by the assessee as a partner in the firm but also	 itsincome, profits or gains which accrued without British Indiain the previous year.  In Wadia's case (1), also an  income-tax  case, it was held that a law imposing a tax  cannot  beimpugned  on  the ground that it is  extra  territorial,  ifthere is a connection between a person who is subjected to atax and the country which imposes that tax.  The  connectionmust, however, be a real one and the liability sought to  beimposed	 must be pertinent to that connection.	At page	 140Chief Justice Kania observed:" Generally, States can legislate effectively only for theirown  territories, but for purposes of taxation	and  similarmatters,  a State makes laws designed to operate beyond	 itsterritorial limits."The learned Attorney General points out that the three	lastmentioned  cases in which the nexus theory was applied	wereincome-tax  cases and submits that that principle cannot  beextended  to sales tax laws.  He points out that  in  BengalImmunity  Co.  Ltd.  v. The State of Bihar  (2)	 this  Courtexpressly  left	 open the question, whether  the  theory  ofnexus applied to legislation with respect to sales tax.	 Thepassage	 at  page 639 relied upon by  the  learned  AttorneyGeneral	 only  refers to the fact that the  different  StateLegislatures  considered  themselves  free  to	make  a	 lawimposing  tax  on sales or purchases of goods  provided	 theState  concerned had some territorial nexus with such  salesor  purchases and went on to say that the  question  whetherthey  were right or wrong in so doing had not  been  finallydecided	 by the courts.	 That passage, properly	 understood,can hardly be said to indicate that the theory of nexus doesnot apply to sales tax legislation at all.  The drift of themeaning	 of  the  passage was that the	sufficiency  of	 thedifferent  next	 relied on by the different States  had	 notbeen tested by the courts.  The passage strongly relied uponby the learned Attorney General is to be(1) [1948] F.C.R. 121.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.1373found  at page 708 where Bhagwati J. after referring to	 theearlier cases, observed :"  It  is a moot point whether this  theory  of	 territorialconnection or nexus which has been mainly applied in income-tax cases, is also applicable to sales tax legislation,	 thesphere	of income-tax legislation and sales tax	 legislationbeing  quite  distinct.	 Whereas in the case  of  income-taxlegislation  the  tax is levied either on a  person  who  iswithin the territory by exercising jurisdiction over him  inpersonam  or upon income which has accrued or arisen to	 himor is deemed to have or arisen to him or has been derived byhim from sources within the territory and it is,  therefore,germane	 to  enquire  whether any part of  such	 income	 hasaccrued	 or arisen or has been derived from a source  withinthe  territory, in the case of sales tax legislation  it  isthe sale or purchase of goods which is the subject-matter oftaxation  and  it  cannot be predicated	 that  the  sale  orpurchase  takes	 place	at  one or  more  places  where	 thenecessary  ingredients	of sale happen to be  located.	 Thetheory of territorial connection or nexus was not put to thetest at any time prior to the enactment of the	Constitutionand  it	 is  not necessary also for us to  give	 a  definitepronouncement on the subject."Apart from the fact that the concluding words in the passagequoted above may be read as indicating that the observationswere  obiter, it appears to us to be too late in the day  tocontend that the theory of nexus does not apply to sales taxlegislation at all.  Indeed an examination of the  decisionsof  this Court will clearly show that the  applicability  ofthe  theory  of	 nexus to sales	 tax  legislation  has	beenclearly recognised by this Court.In The State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd. (1)this  Court  bad  to  interpret	 the  true  meaning  of	 theexplanation  to	 Art. 286(1)(a) of the	Constitution.	Thatexplanation  created a fiction locating the situs of a	saleor  purchase  in the State in which the goods  had  actuallybeen delivered as a result of such sale or purchase for	 thepurpose of consumption in that(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069, 1088.1374State  notwithstanding the fact that, under the general	 lawrelating to sale of goods, the property in the goods had, byreason	of such sale or purchase, passed in  another  State.This  Court  by	 a majority then held that in  view  of	 thefiction	 created  by the explanation the sale which  was  inreality	 an inter-State sale became an intrastate  sale	 andconsequently the delivery and consuming State had the, rightto  impose tax on that sale.  It is true that that  decisionhas been departed from in the Bengal Immunity Co.'s case (1)on  the	 question of the interpretation of Art. 286  of	 theConstitution,  but on the point we are now  discussing	thatdecision clearly implies a recognition of the  applicabilityof  the	 nexus theory to the imposition of sales  tax.	 Theobservations  of Patanjali Sastri C. J. on the	question  ofnexus  in  that	 case  cannot,	therefore,  be	said  to  beunnecessary  for  the decision of that case.   In  PoppatlalShah v. The State of Madras (2) Mukherjea J. delivering	 theunanimous  judgment of the Constitution Bench of this  Courtdefinitely  applied  the  theory  of  nexus  to	 sales	 taxlegislation.  Support for that conclusion was found directlyin  the	 decision  of  the  Judicial  Committee	 in  WallaceBrothers and Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax,  BombayCity (3) which, it was said, had been applied by this  Courtto sales tax legislation in the United Motors' case (4), butit  is quite clear that the decision had,  independently  ofthe  United  Motors'  case (4),	 adopted  the  principle  ofWallace	 Brothers and Co.'s case (3) to sales  tax  legisla-tion.	In  a  recent case, The State of  Bombay  v.  R.M.D.Chamarbaugwala(5),  which was concerned with tax  on  cross-word competition, this Court applied the theory of nexus andupheld the legislative competency of the Bombay	 Legislatureto  impose  tax on the gambling competitions.  At  page	 901this Court said:" The doctrine of territorial nexus is well established	 andthere is no dispute as to the principles.  As enunciated  bylearned	  counsel  for	the  petitioners,  if  there  is   aterritorial  nexus between the person sought to	 be  chargedand the State seeking to tax him the(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.(3)  [1948] F.C.R. 1.(5) [1957] S.C.R. 874,901.(2)  [1953] S.C.R. 677.(4)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069, 1088.1375taxing	 statute   may	be  upheld.   Sufficiency   of	 theterritorial  connection	 involve  a  consideration  of	 twoelements,  namely, (a) the connection must be real  and	 notillusory and (b) the liability sought to be imposed must  bepertinent to that connection.  It is conceded that it is  ofno importance on the question of validity that the liabilityimposed	 is  or may be altogether  disproportionate  to	 theterritorial  connection.  In other words, if the  connectionis  sufficient in the sense mentioned above, the  extent  ofsuch  connection  affects  merely the  policy  and  not	 thevalidity of the legislation."Applying  these	 principles to the facts of that  case	thisCourt	came  to  the  conclusion  that	  they	 constitutedsufficient  territorial	 nexus which entitled the  State  ofBombay	to  impose  a tax on the gambling  that	 took  placewithin	its boundaries and that the law could not be  struckdown  on  the  ground of extra-territoriality.	 It  is	 notnecessary  for	us on this occasion to lay  down  any  broadproposition  as	 to  whether  the  theory  of  nexus,  as  aprinciple  of  legislation, is applicable to  all  kinds  oflegislation.  It will be enough, for disposing of the  pointnow under consideration, to say that this Court has found noapparent  reason  to confine its application  to  income-taxlegislation  but has extended it to sales tax and to tax  ongambling  and  that we see no cogent reason  why  the  nexustheory should not be applied to sales tax legislation.The  learned  Attorney General submits that  the  theory  ofnexus  cannot  be applied to sales tax	legislation  becausesuch legislation is concerned with a tax on the	 transactionof sale,, that is to say, a completed sale and to break up asale  into  its component parts and to take one or  more  ofsuch parts and to apply the theory to it will. mean that theState will be entitled to impose a tax on one or more of theingredients  or constituent elements of the  transaction  ofsale  which  by itself or themselves will not  amount  to  asale.  This argument overlooks the fact that the  provisionsof  the sales tax legislation we are considering  limit	 itscharging  section  to  " sale ". In  order  to	attract	 thecharging section there must be a completed1376sale  involving the transfer of property in the	 goods	soldfrom  the  seller to the buyer.	 The nexus theory  does	 notimpose the tax.	 It only indicates the circumstance in whicha tax imposed by an act of the ,Legislature may be  enforcedin  a  particular  case and unless  eventually	there  is  aconcluded  sale in the sense of passing of the	property  inthe  goods no tax liability attaches under the Act.  One  ormore  of  the several ingredients constituting a  sale	onlyfurnished  the connection between the taxing State  and	 the"sale".	 The learned Attorney General also said that one andthe  same  transaction	of sale may be	taxed  by  differentStates	by  applying  the nexus theory	and  there  will  bemultiple  taxation  which  will obstruct the  free  flow  ofinter-State trade.  There is no force in this argument,	 forArt. 286(2) of the Constitution, as it stood originally, wasa complete safeguard against such eventuality and after	 theamendment  of that Article and the relevant entries  in	 theLegislative  List such contingency will not arise.   In	 ouropinion	 the  arguments	 advanced by  the  learned  AttorneyGeneral on this point cannot be accepted.Re. point No. 3: The learned Attorney General next  contendsthat in any case the nexus must be real and pertinent to thesubject-matter	of taxation.  He contends that the  presenceof the goods in Bihar referred to in the old second proviso,which  is  reproduced in el. (i) of the	 second	 proviso  asamended,   is	of  no	consequence.   The   production	  ormanufacture,  according to him, has no connection  with	 andnever  enters into the transactions of sale.  He  relies  onthe observations of Chief Justice Gwyer in Boddu  Paidanna'scase  (1),  at	page  102, namely, that	 "  a  sale  bad  nonecessary  connection with manufacture or production."	Thatobservation  was made by the learned Chief Justice in  orderto emphasise the fact that the tax levied on the first	saleby the manufacturer or producer was a tax imposed on him quaseller	and not qua manufacturer or producer.  The  questionwhether	 the fact of production or manufacture of goods	 maylegitimately  form a nexus between the transaction  of	saleand the taxing(1)  [1942] F. C. R. 90.1377State  was  not	 in issue in that case at all.	 It  is	 un-necessary in this case to lay down any hard and fast test asto  the	 sufficiency of nexus which will enable a  State  toimpose	a  tax	or  to	enumerate  the	instances  of	suchconnection.   For  the purpose of the present,	case  it  issufficient  to state that in a sale of goods the goods	mustof necessity play an important part, for it is the goods  inwhich, as a result of the sale, the property will pass.	  Inour  view  the	presence of the goods -it the  date  of	 theagreement for sale in the taxing State or the production  ormanufacture  in	 that State of goods  the  property  whereineventually  passed  as a result of the	sale  wherever	thatmight  have  taken  place, constituted	a  sufficient  nexusbetween	 the taxing State and the sale.	 In the	 first	casethe  goods are actually within the State at the date of	 theagreement  for	sale and the property in  those	 goods	willgenerally pass within the State when they are ascertained byappropriation by the seller with the assent of the purchaserand  delivered -to the purchaser or his agent.	Even if	 theproperty  in  those  goods  passes  outside  the  State	 theultimate  sale relates to those very goods.  In	 the  secondcase the goods, wherein the title passes eventually  outsidethe  State,  are produced or manufactured in Bihar  and	 thesale  wherever	that takes place is by the same	 person	 whoproduced or manufactured the same in Bihar.  The producer ormanufacturer  gets his sale price in respect of goods  whichwere  in  Bihar	 at the date when  the	important  event  ofagreement  for	sale  was made or  which  were	produced  ormanufactured  in Bihar.	 These are relevant facts  on  whichthe  State could well fasten its tax.  If the facts  in	 theRaleigh	 Investment  Co.'s case (1), were  sufficient  nexusthere  is no reason why the facts mentioned in	the  provisoshould not also be sufficient.	Whatever else may or may notconstitute  a sufficient nexus, we are of opinion  that	 thetwo  cases  with  which we are concerned in  this  case	 aresufficient to do so.Re.  point No. 5: The argument on this point is	 that  salestax is an indirect tax on the consumer.	 The(1)  [1044] F.C.R. 229.1378idea is that the seller will pass it on to his purchaser andcollect	 it from them.	If that is the nature of  the  salestax  then, urges the learned Attorney General, it cannot  beimposed retrospectively after the, sale transaction has beenconcluded  by  the passing of title from the seller  to	 thebuyer,	for  it cannot, at that stage, be passed on  to	 thepurchaser.   According to him the seller collects the  salestax from the purchaser on the occasion of the sale.  On thattime goes past, the seller loses the chance of realising  itfrom  the  purchaser and if it cannot be realised  from	 thepurchaser,  it cannot be called sales tax.  In our  judgmentthis  argument is not sound.  From the point of view of	 theeconomist  and	as an economic theory, sales tax may  be  anindirect  tax on the consumers, but legally it need  not  beso.   Under  the 1947 Act the primary liability to  pay	 thesales  tax,  so	 far as the State is concerned,	 is  on	 theseller.	 Indeed before the amendment of tile 1947 Act by theamending  Act  the sellers had no authority to	collect	 thesales  tax  as such from the purchaser.	  The  seller  couldundoubtedly have put up the price so as to include the salestax, which he would have to pay but he could not realise anysales  tax  as such from the purchaser.	  That	circumstancecould not prevent the sales tax imposed on the seller to  beany  the  less	sales  tax  on	the  sale  of  goods.	 Thecircumstance  that  the	 1947  Act,  after  the	  amendment,permitted the seller who was a registered dealer to  collectthe  sales tax as a tax from the purchaser does not do	awaywith  the primary liability of the seller to pay  the  salestax.   This  is	 further made clear by the,  fact  that	 theregistered  dealer  need not, if he so pleases	or  chooses,collect	 the tax from the purchaser and sometimes by  reasonof competition with other registered dealers he may find  itprofitable to sell his goods and to retain his old customerseven at the sacrifice of the sales tax.	 This also makes  itclear  that  the  sales tax need not be	 passed	 on  to	 thepurchasers  and this fact does not alter the real nature  ofthe tax which, by the express provisions of the law, is castupon  the  seller.  The buyer is under no liability  to	 paysales tax in addition to the agreed sale price1379unless	the  contract specifically provides  otherwise.	 SeeLove  v. Norman Wright (Builders) Ltd. (1).  If that be	 thetrue  view  of sales tax then the Bihar	 Legislature  actingwithin	its  own  legislative  field had  the  powers  of  asovereign  legislature and could make its law  prospectivelyas  well as retrospectively.  We do not think that there  isany substance in this contention either.For  reasons stated above none of the contentions  urged  bythe learned Attorney General in support of these appeals canbe sustained.  The result, therefore, is that these  appealsmust be dismissed with costs.BOSE  J.-With great respect I cannot agree.  It will not  benecessary  to elaborate my point of disagreement  at  lengthbecause	 this  is pro-Constitution legislation and  much  ofwhat   we  decide  in  this  case  wilt	 not  affect   post-Constitution  Acts.   Put  very shortly, my  view  is  this.First,	a State can only impose a tax on the sale of  goods.It has no power to tax extra territorially, therefore it canonly  tax sales that occur in the State itself.	 With  greatrespect I feel it is fallacious to look to the goods, or  tothe  elements that constitute a sale, because the  power  totax  is limited to the sale and the tax is not on the  goodsor on the agreement to sell or on the price as such but onlyon the sale.  Therefore, unless the sale itself takes  placein the State, the State cannot tax.That brings me to the next point, the situs of a sale.	 NowI  know that this is a matter on which many different  viewsare  possible but what is clear to me is that a sale  cannothave more than one situs.  It is not a mystical entity	thatcan be one in many and many in one at one and the same time,here,  there and everywhere all at once nor is it a  puckishelf  that pops up now here, now there and  next	 everywhere.It  is	a very mundane business transaction, of	 the  earth.earthy.	  It  can  have only one existence  and	 one  situs.Opinions  may  differ on where that is and how it is  to  bedetermined, but it is our duty, as the supreme authority  onthe law of the land, to choose(1)  L.R. (1944) 1 K. B. 484. I751380one of those many views and say that that is the law of	 ourland  and that in India the situs is determined in this	 wayor that and, having determined it, makeit uniform for the whole country.I am conscious that the selection must be arbitrary, but forall  that,  it must be made.  Left to myself, I	 would	havepreferred  Chesbire's  view  about the	proper	law  of	 thecontract  set  out  by him in Chapter VIII of  his  book  onPrivate International Law, 4th edition.	 I referred to	thisin  The	 Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co.  Ltd.  v.  HarnamSingh(1).  I quote him again:"The  proper  law  is the law of the country  in  which	 thecontract  is localised.	 Its localisation will be  indicatedby  what  may  be called the grouping  of  its	elements  asreflected in its formation and in its terms.  The country inwhich  its elements are most densely grouped will  representits natural seat."He  is not dealing with this question.	He is  dealing	withInternational Law and the difficulties that arise in dealingwith  contracts	 whose	elements are  grouped  in  differentStates	with different, and often conflicting, laws.  He  isdeveloping the theme that for any one contract there  shouldbe  but one law to govern it in all its stages and that	 themost logical conclusion is to select the law of the  countryin which the contract has its natural seat.  But whether hisview is accepted or any of the others that he discusses,  hestresses  the  need  for one  objective	 rule  and  contendsstrongly  that the choice should not be left to the  partiesto the deal, even as I say that it should not be left to theStates.	  He  quotes an American Judge, at page 203  of	 hisbook, who says that-" Some law must impose the obligation, and the parties	havenothing	 whatsoever  to	 do with that,	no  more  than	withwhether their acts are torts or crimes."Now  none  of that is of immediate application here  but  itcontains the germ of an idea and points to the embarrassmentand folly of letting differing laws run amuck in governing asingle	transaction.  Following up that thought I would	 saythat we are dealing here with a Constitution Act that speakswith one voice(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 402, 418.1381and  authority	throughout the land.  It tells	the  variousStates,	 as one day some international voice that will	rulethe  world will say to the peoples in it, " you may do	thisand may not do that " ; and " this " and " that " mean,	 butone thing everywhere.  One writ runs throughout the land andit has but one meaning and one voice.  " When I say that youmay  only legislate for your own territory and that you	 maytax certain sales, you must realise that the meaning that  Igive  to I sale' is the meaning that my Supreme Court  shallgive  to  it  and that it cannot mean  differing  things  indifferent  areas ; and you must realise that the only  salesthat  you  may	tax  are  the ones  that  lie  in  your	 ownterritory.  My Supreme Court shall determine where a sale issituated  and once that is determined it cannot be  situatedanywhere  else.	  If  it  does not  happen  to	be  in	yourterritory you cannot tax it."Our present Constitution did not adopt Cheshire's view.	  Itmade  another  choice.	In the old Explanation to  Art.	 286(now  repealed)	 it selected the place where the  goods	 areactually  delivered,  as  a direct result  of  the  sale  orpurchase, as the situs.	 Well, so be it.  That is as good asany  other and I would have been as happy to select that  asany of the other possibilities.	 But what I do most stronglypress is that a Constitution Act cannot be allowed to  speakwith  different	 voices in different parts of the  land	 andthat  a	 mundane  business  concept  well  known  and	wellunderstood  cannot be given an ethereal omnipresent  qualitythat enables a horde of hungry hawks to swoop	  down	 anddevour it simultaneously all over the land:  "	some   sale;some hawks " as Winston Churchill would say.I  would therefore reject the nexus theory in so far  as  itmeans  that  any  one sale can	have  existence	 and  entitysimultaneously in many different places.  The States may taxthe sale but may not disintegrate it and, under the guise oftaxing	the  sale  in truth and in  fact,  tax	its  variouselements,  one its head and one its tail, one  its  entrailsand  one its limbs by a legislative fiction that deems	thatthe whole is within its claws simply because, after  tearingit apart, it finds a hand1382or  a  foot  or a heart or a liver still  quivering  in	 itsgrasp.	 Nexus, of course, there must, be but nexus  of	 theentire	entity that is called a sale, wherever it is  deemedto  be situate.	 Fiction again.	 Of course, it	is  fiction,but it is a fiction as to situts imposed by the ConstitutionAct  and  by the Supreme Court that speaks for it  in  thesematters and only one fiction, not,a dozen little ones.My point is simple.  If you are allowed to tax a dog it mustbe   within   the  territorial	limits	of   your   taxable,jurisdiction.  You cannot tax it if it is born elsewhere andremains there simply because its mother was with you at somepoint  of  time during the period  of  gestation.   Equally,after  birth, you cannot tax it simply because its  tail  iscut off (as is often done in the case of certain breeds) andsent back to the fond owner, who lives in your jurisdiction,in a bottle of spirits, or clippings of its hair.  There  isa  nexus  of sorts in both cases but the  fallacy  lies	 in.thinking  that	the entity is with you just because  a	partthat  is quite different from the whole was once there.	  Sowith a sale of a motor car started and concluded wholly	 andexclusively in New York or London or Timbuctoo.	 You  cannottax that sale just because the vendor lives in Madras,	evenif the motor car is brought there and even assuming there isno  bar on international sales, for the simple	reason	thatwhat  you are entitled to tax is the sale, and	neither	 theowner  nor the car, therefore unless the sale is situate  inyour  territory,  there is no real nexus.  And	once  it  isdetermined objectively by the Constitution Act or in SupremeCourt how and where the sale is situate, its situs is  fixedand  cannot be changed thereafter by a succession  of  Statelegislatures   each  claiming  a  different  situs  by	 theconvenient fiction of deeming.The  only question is whether it is too late in the  day  totake  this view because of our previous decisions and  thoseof  the	 Federal Court.	 I say not, for, though there  is  aconsensus of opinion that there must be a territorial  nexusand that it must not be illusory, no decision that I know ofsays  that  when you are given the right to  tax  a  certainthing which is a composite1383entity,	 quite	separate  and  distinct	 from  the   variouselements  of which it is composed, you may tear	 that  wholeapart  and seize on some, element that is quite a  differentthing from that which you are entitled to tax and hold	thatthe  taxable entity is in your State simply because at	somerelevant  point of time one of the ingredients that went  tomake up the whole but which is a separate and distinct thingfrom  the  whole,  as different from it	 as  chalk  is	fromcheese,	 happened  to  be within your clutches.	  I  do	 notintend	to  analyse the cases on this point  because  it  ispointless  to pursue a matter that will only be of  academicinterest.   All	 I  will do therefore is  to  say  that	 thequestion  of  nexus has been referred to  in  the  followingcases  and  that  none of them reaches a  decision  on	thisparticular  point.  These  cases  are  Governor-General	  inCouncil v. Ratleigh Investment Co., Ltd. (1), A. H. Wadia v.Commissioner  of  Income-tax, Bombay Poppatlal Shah  v.	 TheSlate of Madras (3), State of Travencore-Cochin v. ShanmughaVilas  Cashew Nut Factory (4), and The Bengal Immunity	Co.,Ltd. v. The State of Bihar (5).I would allow the appeals.ORDER OF THE COURT.In  view  of the opinion of the majority,  the	appeals	 aredismissed with costs.Appeals dismissed.(1) [1944]-229, 247, 253.(2)  [1048] F.C.R. 121, 153, 154, 165.(3)  [1953] S.C.R. 677.(4)  [1954]S.C.R. 53, 101.(5)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603, 708, 768, 769.1384