PETITIONER:CROMPTON PARKINSON (WORKS) PRIVATELTD., BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMEN AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/05/1959BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1089		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 936 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC 819	 (14) RF	    1969 SC 612	 (23)ACT: Industrial   Dispute-Bonus-Gross Profits-Expenditure,	whenmay be disallowed-Service Fee-Whether allowable expenditure-Available Surplus-Bonus, deducted as prior  charge-Proprietyof.HEADNOTE:Initially the appellant was a 100% subsidiary of the Britishcompany,  Crompton  Parkinson  Ltd.  In	 1947  an  agreementcalled " Technical Aid Agreement " was concluded between thetwo companies under which the appellant agreed to pay to theparent	company 5% Of the net value of its sales every	yearas  service  fee  for the use of  their	 patterns,  valuabledesigns,  technical aid, benefit of research  and  ancillaryservices  and  facilities.  As the  appellant  obtained	 thebenefit	 of  the parent company's  technical  knowledge	 andresearch   it	did  not  maintain   a	 separate   researchestablishment on which it would otherwise have had to  spendfar  more than the service fee it paid.	 The  agreement	 hadreceived  the  approval of the	Government;  the  income-taxauthorities  had,  every year, allowed the  service  fee  aslegitimate  expenditure ; and the remittances to the  parentcompany	 had been sanctioned by the Reserve Bank  of  India.In  the	 claim for bonus by the workmen,  the  Tribunal,  incalculating  the  gross profits, pruned down  the  allowableexpenditure  on account of the service fee to one fourth  onthe  grounds  that  the	 amount	 of  service  fee  paid	 wasexcessive   and	 beyond	 the  requirements   of	  commercialnecessity  and that a large part of the payment was  in	 thenature of capital expenditure.	In calculating the availablesurplus the Tribunal deducted as a first charge 4 1/2 monthsbasic  wages  as  bonus before	deducting  depreciation	 andincome-tax contrary to the terms of the Full Bench formula.Held,  that the entire amount of service fee paid  ought  tohave  been  allowed as proper expenditure.   Unless  it	 wasdefinitely  found that a purported expenditure was  sham  orhad  been  made with the express object	 of  minimising	 theprofits	 with a view to deprive the workmen of their  bonus,the  Tribunal  could not substitute its own judgment  as  towhat was or was not commercially justified in place of	thatof  the appellant and its directors.  The service fee was  agenuine	 expenditure and represented a	binding	 contractualobligation  which  could  legally be  enforced	against	 theappellant  and	a  breach  thereof  may	 have  had   seriousconsequences affecting its business.Held further, that the Tribunal acted wrongly in deducting937bonus as a prior charge even before the recognised items  ofprior charges.	Such departures from the Full Bench  Formulaby Tribunals were to be deprecated.Associated  Cement Companies Ltd. v. Its Workmen, C.A.	Nos.459 and 460 of 1957, decided on 5-5-59, followed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 756 &	 757of 1957.Appeal	by  special leave from the Award  dated	 January  8,1957,  of  the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in	1.  T.	Ref.Nos. 109 and 147 of 1956.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   Y.	  A.Palkhivala and S. N. Andley, for the appellant.Rajani Patel and Janardan Sharma, for the respondents.1959.  May 6. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS,  C.  J.-These  are appeals by special  leave  filed  byCrompton   Parkinson  (Works)  Private	 Ltd.	(hereinafterreferred  to as the company) against that part of the  awardmade  in  References (IT) Nos. 109 and 147 of  1956  by	 theIndustrial  Tribunal,  Bombay,	on January  8,	1957,  whichconcerns  the  demand  of  its workmen	for  bonus  for	 thecompany's financial year 1954-55.  That award was  publishedin  the	 Bombay Government Gazette of January 17,  1957,  inPart IL at pages 351-364.The  material facts and circumstances leading upto the	saidaward,	as  they appear from the evidence placed  on  recordbefore the Tribunal, may shortly be stated as follows:-	 Thecompany	 was  incorporated in India in the year	 1937.	 Theregistered  office  of	the  company  is  at  Bombay.	 Theauthorised  capital  of the company is Rs. 75  lacs  dividedinto  75,000 ordinary shares of the value of Rs.  100  each.Out of the authorised capital, shares of the value of Rs. 60lacs  have been issued, subscribed and fully paid.   At	 itsinception the company was 100% subsidiary of the well  knownBritish	 company named Crompton Parkinson Ltd.	(hereinaftercalled the Parent company).  In 1937938the  company  commenced	 its business which was	 and  is  tomanufacture  electrical	 equipment  such  as   transformers,motors, fans, starters and switch gears and to sell the samein   the   market.   All  the  goods,  which   the   companymanufactures,  are  manufactured wholly in  accordance	withpatterns,  designs, specifications and	technical  processesdeveloped  by and belonging to the Parent company which	 thelatter	makes  available  to  the  company.   The  company'sproducts are sold under the trade names and marks  belongingto  the	 Parent company, namely, " Crompton Parkinson  ",  "Crompton  ", " Parkinson " and " C. P. ". Between  1937	 and1947 the company's business is said to have been in a  stageof  development	 and progress and it is	 admitted  that	 theParent	company made no charge for the several services	 andfacilities  given by it to the company.	 In the	 year  1947,after the company's business had been established on a	firmfooting,   an  agreement  was  concluded  between  the	 twocompanies in order to provide, on a long term basis, for thecontinuance  of	 the technical assistance  and	service	 andother facilities afforded by the Parent company on which thecompany was wholly dependent.  That agreement, which is saidto be of a type commonly executed between the  manufacturingand  industrial	 concerns  in  India  and  their  respectiveassociates, parents or affiliates abroad and generally knownas " Technical Aid Agreements " is said to have received theapproval   of  the  Government	of  India  to  promote	 theindustrial  development of the country.	 That agreement	 wasactually executed on August 12, 1947, and provided that	 fora period of 20 years the Parent company would render to	 thecompany various facilities and services, including,  amongstothers, the following :(1) the use of the latest designs, manufacturing informationand production methods discovered and developed by  CromptonParkinson Ltd.;(ii) the  fullest  information	and advice as  to  the	mostsuitable   machine  tools  and	production   machinery	 andequipment and as to the correct operation and use thereof;(iii)	  the supply at cost of machinery, equipment,,939raw materials and manufacturing parts.	Under this  facilitythe  appellants	 obtain the benefit of bulk  purchase  termsunder  which  Crompton	Parkinson Ltd.	purchase  their	 rawmaterials;(iv) the benefit of the knowledge and experience of CromptonParkinson  Ltd.'s  executive  in  all  matters	relating  totechnical, mechanical and financial management;(v)  the  service of the Crompton Parkinson  Ltd.'s  expertsand technical personnel;(vi) facilities	 for training of selected employees  of	 thepetitioners in Crompton Parkinson Ltd.'s Works, and(vii)	  licence  to  use on the appellants'  products	 theworld-famous trademarks, "Crompton Parkinson", " Crompton "," Parkinson " and " C. P. " belonging to Crompton  ParkinsonLimited."In  lieu  of  all royalties, licence  fees  and	 other	con-siderations  usually allowed for services and facilities  ofthis  kind, the company agreed to pay to the Parent  companyservice fee calculated at the rate of 5% of the net value ofthe  sales made by the company from year to year.   For	 theyear  1954-55  the company had actually paid the  amount  ofservice fee and the same, after deducting the Indian income-tax, had been remitted to the Parent company.  Shortly afterthe  execution of the aforesaid agreement, 26% of shares  ofthe  company  were acquired by Messrs.	Greaves	 Cotton	 Co.Ltd.,  which is an Indian Company and the company ceased  tobe a 100% subsidiary of the Parent company.  It is said thatwhen negotiations for the aforesaid agreement were going  onnegotiations  were  also  in progress for  the	transfer  ofshares	to  the	 Indian	 company and  that  the	 latter	 wasapprised of the terms of the proposed agreement and approvedof the terms of payment of 5% of the net value of sales.On August 25, 1955, the General Engineering Employees  Unionrepresenting  the workmen who are respondents Nos. 1  and  2submitted  certain  demands to the  company.   No  agreementhaving	been  arrived  at, the matter was  referred  to	 theConciliation Officer.  As940no settlement was arrived at as a result of the conciliationproceedings,  the Conciliation Officer submitted his  reportto  the Government of Bombay under sub-s. 4 of s. 12 of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1947.	 The Government of  Bombay,'after  considering  the said report and in exercise  of	 thepowers	conferred  on  it  by  sub-s. 5	 of  s.	 12  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1947, made an order on  August  6,1956,  referring  the disputes between the company  and	 itsworkmen (other than those of the Watch and Ward staff)	overtheir  demands mentioned in the schedule to that  order	 foradjudication  to the Tribunal from whose award	the  presentappeals have been filed.  This reference was marked as	(IT)No. 109 of 1956.  By another order made on October 10, 1956,the  Government of Bombay referred the disputes between	 thecompany	 and  its workmen belonging to the  Watch  and	Wardstaff over the latter's demands mentioned in the schedule tothat  order  for adjudication to the  same  Tribunal.	Thatreference was marked as (IT) No. 147 of 1956.On September 10, 1956, a statement of claim was filed by theGenera	Secretary, General Engineering Employees  Union,  onbehalf	of  the workmen (other than those of the  Watch	 andWard  staff)  in Reference (IT) No. 109	 of  1956  claiming,inter  alia, that all workmen should be given  bonus  either(i) equivalent to 331 % of their earnings during 1954-55  or(ii)  a prorate bonus equivalent to their six months'  basicwages, basic wage being calculated at the daily rate of	 paywhich  the  workmen drew on June 30, 1955, and	bonus  beinggiven without attaching any conditions.	 In the statement ofclaim the Union contended: (i) that during the year  1954-55the  company had made huge profits, (ii) that the  company'sbusiness had expanded by leaps and bounds and production hadmounted	 up very much and the company had made huge  profitsand (iii) that the wages paid to its employees fell terriblyshort  of the living wage standard and extremely out of	 anyreasonable proportion to the tremendously high salaries paidto the company's officers.  The Union requested the Tribunalto  take  into consideration the company's  practice,  interalia, of writing off941of  very substantial amounts as service fees to	 the  Parentcompany.The  company  filed its written statement in  reply  to	 thestatement of claim filed by the Union in Reference No.	(IT)109  of	 1956.	While agreeing that it had  made  reasonableprogress,  the company did not admit that the  progress	 hadbeen as rapid or phenomenal as the Union had suggested.	 Thecompany	 stated	 that it had been able	to  accumulate	onlysmall  reserves, that, in spite of its	increased  turnover,its profit for the year in question was quite low on accountof  stiff  competition, that the wages paid to	the  workmencompared favorably with those paid by similar concerns, thatthey  paid  to	the Parent company a  service  fee  as	con-sideration for the use of their patterns, valuable  designs,technical  aid, benefit -of research and ancillary  servicesand  facilities.   For the purposes of	the  reference,	 thecompany filed a copy of its audited balance-sheet and profitand  loss  account for the year 1954-55	 as  a	confidentialexhibit.   In the said profit and loss account, service	 feeof  5%	so  paid  for  the year was  shown  as	an  item  ofexpenditure.The  Union on behalf of the workmen belonging to  the  Watchand Ward staff filed a statement of claim in Reference	(IT)No.  147 of 1956 regarding certain special claims  of  thoseworkmen	 to  which  the	 company  replied  by  its   writtenstatement.   It is not necessary to refer to that  statementof  claim by the Union or the company's	 written  statement,for they are not relevant to the question of bonus.In the course of hearing of the References, which were takenup  together, the workmen, through their counsel,  submittedto  the Tribunal, amongst other things, that the payment  ofthe  said service fee by the company was not  justified	 andthat the same should be disallowed as an item of expenditurefor the purpose of calculating bonus payable to the  workmenfor  the year 1954-55.	The Tribunal thereupon	called	uponthe company to bring on record by an affidavit all  relevantfacts  and circumstances relating to the payment of  servicefee.   The  company submitted that it was not  open  to	 theworkmen to question an item of942expenditure  actually  incurred and paid in  the  course  ofbusiness or to request that such an item. already debited tothe accounts, which had duly been audited and passed, shouldbe disallowed.	The company submitted that in any event	 thesaid  payment was fully justified and reasonable.   However,in compliance with the Tribunal's directions, the company onDecember  18, 1956, filed an affidavit affirmed on  December14, 1956, by Shri V. V. Dhume. the Secretary to the  companysetting forth the relevant facts and circumstances  relatingto  the	 payment of the said service fee.   At	the  furtherdirection  of  the Tribunal, a copy of the  agreement  datedAugust 12, 1947, was also filed by the company.	 Shri V.  V.Dhume  was  examined  before  the  Tribunal  and  his	oraltestimony was also recorded.The  material provisions of the said agreement have  alreadybeen  summarised  above.  From the affidavit  and  the	oralevidence of Shri V. V. Dhume referred to above, it is  clearthat  all  the	goods which  the  company  manufactures	 aremanufactured   wholly  in  accordance  with  the   patterns,designs,  specifications and technical -processes  developedby  and	 belonging  to the Parent  company  which  it  makesavailable to the company and that the company's products aresold  exclusively under the trade names and marks  belongingto the Parent company.	There can be and is no dispute	thatthe  company  has thus at its disposal the  benefit  of	 theParent	company's  accumulated	knowledge  and	 experience,technical data and goodwill and the reputation attaching  toits products.  It is clear upon the evidence on record	thatthe   manufacture  of  specialised  electrical	 goods	 andequipment  of the types produced by the company is a  highlyspecialised business of a very competitive nature  requiringthe use of the most up to date technique.  In order to	keepabreast with the latest development in the field of manufac-ture of this kind of equipment, the company will  ordinarilyhave   to  maintain  its  own  research	  laboratories	 andspecialised staff to develop new methods and innovations andprocesses.   The  company,  however,  does  not	 maintain  aseparate research establishment -Of its own but obtains	 thebenefit of the Parent943company's  invaluable  services under  the  said  agreement.According  to Shri V. V. Dhume the service fee paid  by	 thecompany to the Parent company constitutes, in a	 substantialmeasure,  a mere reimbursement of expenses incurred  by	 thelatter	in  the maintenance and operation  of  its  researchdepartment and rendering of facilities to the company.	ShriV. V. Dhume further stated that, had the company to maintainits  own  research department to provide  such	service	 andfacilities, the annual expense of the company would have farexceeded  the service fee actually paid by it to the  Parentcompany.   It also appears from the affidavit of Shri V.  V.Dhume  that the independent shareholders of the company	 whohad  acquired 26% shares of the company about the time	whenthe  " Technical Aid Agreement " was executed had  willinglyaccepted  that	agreement.   Apart from the  fact  that	 theagreement  had	received the approval of the  Government  ofIndia in the Ministry of Finance as well as in the  Ministryof  Commerce and Industry, the income-tax  authorities	havefrom year to year allowed the full amount of the service feepaid by the company to the Parent company as an	 expenditureincurred  wholly  and exclusively for the  purposes  of	 thecompany's  business.  Likewise every payment and  remittancemade  by  the company representing the service	fee  to	 theParent	company has been sanctioned by the Reserve  Bank  ofIndia  ever since 1947.	 The payment of the service  fee  nodoubt  represents  a binding contractual obligation  on	 thecompany	 which	can  be legally enforced against  it  and  abreach	thereof on the part of the company may well lead  tothe  cancellation thereof by the Parent company as a  resultwhereof	 the  company will be deprived of the  services	 andfacilities  obtained by it under the agreement and may	evenbe  prevented from carrying on its business.  There  was  noserious	 cross-examination  of Shri V.	V.  Dhume  regardingthese  matters by counsel appearing for the workmen  and  nosubstantive  evidence  on  these questions was	led  by	 theworkmen.The  Tribunal  made  its award in  both	 the  References  onJanuary 8, 1957.  As regards the service fee,944the Tribunal held (i) that the amount of service fee paid bythe  company to the Parent company was excessive and  beyondthe  requirements of commercial necessity and was  allowableas  an expense only as to one quarter thereof and (ii)	thatin any event even if the commercial necessity of the paymentcould not be challenged, a large part of the payment was  inthe nature of capital expenditure and that only the balance,being  in fact a quarter thereof, was allowable	 as  revenueexpense for the purpose of determining the surplus availablefor  the payment of bonus to the workmen.  Thus, as  regardsthe  service  fee, the Tribunal in its	award  proceeded  to"prune	it  down ". In the actual calculations made  by	 theTribunal for determining the available surplus according  tothe  bonus  formula  appearing in what has  been  marked  asconfidential exhibit T-1, the Tribunal has allowed only	 Rs.2  lacs out of the total of Rs. 7.67 lacs actually  paid  asservice fee and added back Rs. 5.67 lacs to the profits.  Itwill also be noticed from that confidential exhibit T-1 thatthe  Tribunal has deducted as a first charge 4	1/2  months'basic wages as bonus before depreciation as well as tax,  onno better ground than that, in the view taken by it, income-tax  should not be deducted as a prior charge on  the  grossprofits	 in preference to bonus.  In so doing  the  Tribunalhas not, quite clearly, followed but has made variations  inthat  formula.	The bonus formula enjoins the  Tribunals  toarrive at the available surplus after providing for  certainprior charges mentioned therein and then to determine, aftertaking	into consideration all material	 circumstances,	 howthat  available surplus should be distributed'	between	 thethree interests, namely, the industry, the shareholders	 andthe workmen.  To deduct bonus as a prior charge even  beforethe  recognised items of prior charges appears to us to	 putthe cart before the horse.  Such a process is certainly	 notgiving	effect to. the bonus formula but amounts to  ad	 hocdetermination which may vary according to the length of	 theproverbial foot of the Lord Chancellor and is bound to	leadto  chaos  and	industrial unrest.  The	 bonus	formula	 wasevolved by945the Labour Appellate Tribunal as far back as 1950 and it hasbeen generally approved by this Court in more decisions thanone  and what is more it has worked  fairly  satisfactorily.In  our	 judgment  in the,'  appeals  of  Associated  CementCompanies  Ltd. v. Its Workmen (1) we have  deprecated	suchdeparture  from the bonus formula by  individual  Tribunals,for   clearly  such  departure	is  not	 conducive  to	 theharmonious  and peaceful relations between the	workmen	 andtheir employers.The only other question which calls for our decision is	 thecorrectness of the Tribunal's award as to the service  fees.The  conclusion of the Tribunal on that point is founded  onthe ground that the test of " commercial necessity " appliedby  the income-tax authorities for determining	whether	 theexpenditure  was allowable under s. 10(2)(xv) of the  IndianIncome-tax Act should also be applied by the Tribunal.	 TheTribunal  evidently overlooked the fact that the  income-taxauthorities  are  entitled to apply the test  of  commercialnecessity  by  reason  of  the	express	 provisions  of	  s.10(2)(xv)  which  authorise them to arrive  at	the  taxableincome,	 profits  and  gains  after  making  allowance	 forexpenditures  laid out and expended wholly  and	 exclusivelyfor the purpose of the business.  There is no such provisionin  the Industrial Disputes Act.  In tile absence of  cogentand  compelling evidence leading to the definite  conclusionand  finding  that a purported expenditure was sham  or	 hadbeen made with the express object of minimising the  profitswith a view to deprive the workmen of their bonus, it is  nopart of the duty of an Industrial Tribunal to substitute itsown  judgment  as  to  what  was  or  was  not	commerciallyjustified  in  the place of the judgment  exercised  by	 thecompany and its Directors in whom. in law the management  ofthe  company  is  confided.   The  Tribunal  has  completelyoverlooked  the	 fact that the company's accounts  bad	beenduly audited by its auditors who were duly appointed by	 thecompany and that the said auditors had duly certified(1) [1950].S.C.R 925.119946in the manner provided for by the Indian Companies Act, thatthe said accounts had been drawn  up in conformity with	 thelaw  and exhibited a true and correct view of the  state  ofthe  company's affairs.	 The Tribunal has paid no  attentionto the fact, appearing in the evidence on record before him,that the income-tax department had allowed such service	 feeas  legitimate revenue expense and the entire amount of	 theservice	 fee  was  allowed  as	a  deduction  by  income-taxauthorities  every year as a revenue expenditure wholly	 andexclusively incurred as a matter of commercial necessity  ofthe  company's	business.  Nor does the Tribunal  appear  tohave adverted to the fact that the remittances to the Parentcompany	 were  allowed	by the	Reserve	 Bank  which  alwaysexercises  close  scrutiny  on every payment  made  to	non-residents  with	 a view to prohibit payments which  are	 notjustified.  Nor has the Tribunal taken note of the fact thatthe  Ministry  of Finance and the Ministry of  Commerce	 andIndustry have approved of the payment of the service fee  asprovided  in  the  agreement.  A  conclusion  drawn  by	 theTribunal without adverting to the evidence before it amountsto  an	error  of  law and  cannot  possibly  be  sustained.Further, the Tribunal appears to have been led away by threefacts, namely, (i) that the company did not pay any  servicefee  during the period 1937-47, (ii) that the agreement	 wasexecuted  on  August  12, 1947, that is to  say	 three	daysbefore the attainment of our independence and (iii) that  atthe date of the agreement the company was a 100%  subsidiaryof  the	 Parent company.  As regards the first	reason,	 theexplanation may well be that during the period 1937 to	1947the  growth was still in a stage of development and  growth.In any case,the fact that no fees had been charged during  aparticular  'period when the company was 100% subsidiary  ofthe Parent company cannot reasonably be	 taken' as a  reasonfor  not allowing them in future.  It will be recalled	thatnegotiations  were  going  on  for  the	 acquisition  of   aconsiderable block of shares by an Indian company simultane-ously with the negotiations for the execution of the947agreement  and that in fact 26% of the shares were  acquiredby Messrs.  Greaves Cotton Co. Ltd.  Further, such  service,fee has been paid year after year from 1947 right up to	 thebonus  year  in	 question.  The	 second	 reason	 is  equallyunsustainable.	The fact that a great constitutional  changewas envisaged may well and properly have been the reason forplacing	 the legal relationship between the company and	 theParent company on a firmer and permanent legal footing.	 TheTribunal seems to have overlooked the fact stated by Shri V.V.  Dhume,  that " the payment of the service  fee  for	 theservices  of this nature is quite a common feature in  India".  The reasonableness and legality of the payment  of	suchfee  is	 also  supported by the	 fact  that  the  income-taxauthorities and the Reserve Bank of India have not taken anyexception  to such payment.  The last reason adopted by	 theTribunal  clearly overlooks the fact that shortly after	 theexecution  of  the  agreement about 26%	 of  shares  in	 thecompany	 were acquired by an Indian company and	 year  afteryear  ever since then these independent shareholders of	 theIndian company had willingly accepted the service agreement.Finally	 the award does not disclose any basis on which	 theTribunal  has purported to " prune it down " to one  quarterof the amount actually paid by the company.After  a careful consideration of the evidence on record  wehave  come  to the conclusion that this part  of  the  awardconcerning disallowance of the major portion of the  servicefees  cannot  be supported or upheld.  The Tribunal  in	 theaward  itself  has pointed out, as already stated,  that  incase the whole of this service, fee is to be allowed, as  wethink it should be, then on that basis the available surpluswould permit the payment of bonus of one month's basic wagesto the workmen.	 The company has no objection to payment  ofbonus  to the workmen amounting to one month's basic  wages,subject	 to  the conditions laid down in the award  in	thisbehalf	and  indeed  it has done so since the  date  of	 theaward.	 The  result,  therefore, is that  we  allow,  theseappeals	 to  the extent that the award of  the	Tribunal:'bevaried and modified by948allowing only one month's basic wages to its workmen who arerespondents to these appeals instead of 2 1/2 months'  basicwages  as provided in the award, subject, of course, to	 theconditions  laid down in the award.  Be it noted  here	thatthe  company  has  paid this bonus to  the  respondents	 andnothing	 remains  due  and payable for	bonus  for  1954-55.Considering  all circumstances of these appeals,  we  directeach party to bear its own costs of these appeals.Appeal allowed in part.