PETITIONER:S. VEERABADRAN CHETTIAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:E. V. RAMASWAMI NAICKER & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:25/08/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERWANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1958 AIR 1032		  1959 SCR 1211ACT:Insult to Religion-Ingredients of offence--Interpretation ofstatute-Duty  of Court-Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of  1860),s. 295.HEADNOTE:The words " any object held sacred by any class of  persons"occurring in S. 295 Of the Indian Penal Code are of  generalimport	and cannot be limited to idols in temples  or  idolscarried	 on festival occasions.	 Not merely idols or  sacredbooks,	but any other object which is regarded as sacred  byany  class of persons, whether actually worshipped  or	not,fall within the description.Queen  Empress	v. Imam Ali, (1887) I.L.R. 10 All.  150	 andRomesh Chunder Sannyal v. Hiru Mondal, (1890) I.L.R. 17 Cal.852, considered.Consequently, in a case where the allegation in the petitionof  complaint was that one of the accused broke the idol  ofGod  Ganesa in public and the two others actually aided	 andabetted	 him with the intention of insulting  the  religiousfeeling	 of the complainant and his community who  held	 thedeity in veneration and the trial Magistrate, on receipt  ofthe  Police  report that the alleged  occurrence  was  true,dismissed the complaint under S. 203 of the Code of CriminalProcedure holding that the breaking of a mud image of Ganesawas not an offence under s. 295 of the Indian Penal Code andthe Sessions judge and the High Court in revision,  agreeingwith the view of the trial Court, refused to direct  furtherenquiry :Held, that the courts below were clearly in error in  inter-preting	 S.  295 of the Indian Penal Code in  the  way	they(lid,  but  since  the complaint stood	long  dismissed,  nofurther enquiry need be directed into the matter.Held,  further, that the Courts must be circumspect in	suchmatters and pay due regard to the religious susceptibilitiesof  different  classes of persons  with	 different  beliefs,whether	 they shared those beliefs or not or  whether  thosebeliefs in the opinion of the Court were rational or not.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CriminalAppeal No. 49 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober	 13,  1954,  of the Madras High	 Court	in  CriminalRevision Case No. 267 and 19541541212(Criminal Revision Petition No. 249 of 1954) arising out  ofthe judgment and order dated January 12, 1954, of the  Courtof  the	 District and Sessions Judge  as  Tiruchirapalli  inCriminal Revision Petition No. 17 of 1953.R.   Ganapathy	 Iyer	and  G.	 Gopalakrishnan,   for	 theappellant.No one appeared for the respondents.1958.	August 25.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySINHA J.-The only question for determination in this  appealby  special  leave, is whether the  petition  of  complaint,disclosed  a prima facie offence under s. 295 of the  IndianPenal  Code.  The courts below have taken the view  that  itdid  not, and on that ground, it stood summarily  dismissed,before evidence pro and con had been recorded.It appears that the appellant filed a petition of  complaintin  the	 court	of the	Additional  First-Class	 Magistrate,Tiruchirappalli,  against the respondents, three in  number.The petition of complaint alleged inter alia that the  firstaccused	 is  the leader of Dravida Kazakam (a  community  ofpersons who profess to be religious reformers, one of  whosecreeds is to carry on propaganda against idol worship),	 andas  such,  be was out to " vilify a certain section  of	 theHindu  community and do propaganda by holding  meetings	 andwriting	 articles.  " It is further alleged in the  petitionof  complaint that " recently, the first  accused  announcedhis  intention of breaking the image of God Ganesa, the	 Godsacred	to the Saiva Section of the Hindu Community on	27thMay,  1953, in a public meeting at Town Hall.	This  causedterror-commotion  in the mind of the Saivite Section of	 the-Hindu Community.  " The complainant claims to be a Saivite.The complainant further alleged in his petition that on	 May27,  1953, at about 5-30 p.m., the accused broke an idol  ofGod  Ganesa  in public at the Town Hall Maidan,	 and  beforebreaking  the idol, lie made a speech, and expressly  statedthat  he  intended  to	insult the  feelings  of  the  Hinducommunity by breaking the idol of God1213Ganesa.	  The said act of breaking the idol was	 alleged  tohave  been  actively abetted by instigation and aid  by	 theother  two  accused persons, who also  made  speeches.	 Thepetition  of  complaint also alleged that the  said  act  ofbreaking the image of God Ganesa was done with the intentionof  insulting the religious feelings of certain sections  ofthe Hindu community, who hold God Ganesa in veneration,	 andthat the acts complained of, amounted to offences under	 ss.295   and  295A	 of  the  Indian  Penal	 Code.	  On   thoseallegations, the petition of complaint (dated June 5,  1953)prayed that processes might issue against the three  accusedpersons.  In the list of witnesses appended to the petition,figured	  the  Additional  District  Magistrate,  the	Sub-Divisional  Magistrate,	 the Town Sub-Inspector	 of  police,Tiruchi Fort, and Sub-Magistrate, Tiruchy Town.	 On the samedate,  the  learned magistrate examined the  complainant  onoath.	The  complainant made statements in support  of	 hisallegations  in the petition of complaint.   Thereupon,	 thelearned	 magistrate directed that the petition of  complaintbe  sent  to  the Circle Inspector of  police,	Trichy,	 forinquiry	 and report under s. 202, Criminal  Procedure  Code.On  June 26, 1953, on receipt of the police report  which  "showed that though the occurrence as alleged had taken placeit was a point of law if the act of the accused would amountto  any offence ", the learned magistrate passed his  order,dismissing  the	 complaint  under s.  203  of  the  CriminalProcedure  Code.   In the course of his order,	the  learnedmagistrate observed as follows:-"The  mud  figure of Ganesa alleged to have been  broken  byaccused	 is not an object held sacred or worshipped  by	 anyclass  of  persons.   Simply because it	 resembled  the	 GodGanesa	held in veneration by a section it cannot become  anobject	hold  sacred.	Even Ganesa idol  abandoned  by	 thepeople	as unworthy of worship loses its sanctity and it  isno longer an object held sacred by anybody, since such givenup  idols are found in several places of defilement.  It  isnot  an offence if a person treads union any such  abandonedidol.  Therefore the breaking of mud figure of Ganesa1214does  not  amount to an offence under  Section	295,  IndianPenal Code.  ""The  speeches delivered by the accused with deliberate	 andmalicious  intention  of outraging religious feelings  of  acommunity, no doubt amount to an offence under Section	295-A, Indian Penal Code.  But for laying a complaint under thissection	 the sanction of the Government is necessary.	Thissection	 has been clearly mentioned in the complaint and  itcannot	be  said it was included by  oversight.	  Without  aproper	 sanction   an	offence	 under	 this	section	  isunsustainable.	 I  therefore see no sufficient	 ground	 forproceeding  with the complaint and I dismiss the same  undersection 203, Criminal Procedure Code.  "The   complainant  moved  the  learned	Sessions  Judge	  ofTiruchirappalli, by his petition in revision, filed on	July9,  1953,  under ss. 435 and 436 of the	 Criminal  ProcedureCode,  for  setting  aside the order  of  dismissal  of	 thecomplaint.   In the petition filed in the Court of  Session,the complainant stated that the petition was confined to thecomplaint  in respect of the alleged offence under  s.	295,Indian	Penal Code, and that it did not seek to	 revise	 theorder of dismissal of the complaint in respect of an offencetinder	s.  295-A  of the Indian Penal	Code.	The  learnedSessions  Judge	 dismissed the petition by  an	order  datedJanuary	 12,  1954, holding, in agreement with	the  learnedmagistrate, that the acts complained of did not amount to anoffence	 under s. 295, Indian Penal Code.  In the course  ofhis  order,  the learned Sessions Judge made  the  followingobservations:-"  I  agree  with  the	learned	 Magistrate  that  the	actscomplained of do not amount to an offence.  The accused, whoprofess	 to  be religious reformers in	a  campaign  againstidolatory organized a public meeting at which they broke  anearthern  image	 of the God Ganesa.   The  particular  imagebroken	was the private property of the accused and was	 notin itself an object held sacred by any class of persons; nordo  I  think  that  idol  breaking  by	a  non-believer	 canreasonably  be	regarded by a believer as an insult  to	 hisreligion ; and the ingredients of Section 295, Indian  PenalCode, are therefore not made out.  "1215The complainant then moved the High Court in its  revisionaljurisdiction under s. 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.The  matter  was  heard by a learned single  Judge  of	thatCourt.	The learned single Judge also agreed with the courtsbelow  in  the	reasons given by  them	for  dismissing	 thepetition of complaint, and refused to order further inquiry.In  the	 course of his judgment, he discussed  the  questionwhether a mud image of God Ganesa, came within the scope  ofthe words " any object held. sacred by any class of  persons"  in s. 295, and he answered the question in the  negative.In this connection, he referred to the judgment of the	FullBench  of  the	Allahabad High Court in the  case  of  QueenEmpress v. Imam Ali (1), which is directly an authority	 forthis  proposition only that the word 'object' in s.  295  ofthe  Indian  Penal Code, does not include  animate  objects.That  case dealt with the complaint of killing a cow.	EdgeC.  J.	in the course of his judgment, made  an	 observationthat  the  word	 ' object ' should  be	interpreted  ejusdemgeneris with the words 'place of worship', and by way of  anexample	 of such an inanimate object, he mentioned an  idol.That   observation,   if  anything,  is	 not   against	 thecomplainant.  The learned single Judge also referred to	 thecase  of  Romesh Chunder Sannyal v. Hiru Mondal	 (2),  whichalso is not in point inasmuch as it dealt with the case of adedicated  bull.  But the learned Judge seemed to draw	fromthose  cases  the inference which may be stated in  his	 ownwords, as follows:-"  Interpreted	like that, it would mean  that	the  sectionwould  apply  only  to cases where an idol in  a  temple  issought to be destroyed, damaged, or defiled.  The words 'anyobject	held sacred by any class of persons' even  otherwisewill  apply  only  to idols in a temple	 or  when  they	 arecarried	 out  in  processions on  festival  occasions.	 Theobject	held  sacred' will mean only the  idols	 inside	 thetemple	and  when  they	 are taken  out	 in  processions  onfestival occasions.  In such circumstances as in the presentcase the breaking is nothing more than a doll taken from theshop.(1) (1887) I.L.R. 10 All. 150.(2) (1890) I.L.R. 117 Cal. 852.1216Though the intention of the respondents may be to decry	 thefeelings  and wound the susceptibilities of a large  sectionof  the people, still the intention alone is not  sufficientunless	it is carried out by an act which must	fall  withinthe  scope of this section.  The dolls in the  shop,  thoughthey  may  resemble several of the deities  in	the  temple,cannot	be  held to be objects held sacred by any  class  ofpersons.  In modern society there are several images of	 thedeities	 in the drawing rooms of several houses.  It  cannotfor a moment be suggested that these images are objects heldsacred.	 These have got to be distinguished from the objectsheld sacred, which can only be when they are duly  installedin  a temple and from which they are subsequently taken	 outin  procession	on  festival  occasions.   What	 was  brokentherefore  by  the respondents is nothing more than  a	dolltaken  either from a shop or made for the occasion,  and  itcannot	by any means be called ail object held sacred.	 Theoffence	 is  not  made out and the  dismissal  is  thereforejustified."The  petitioner	 moved	the High  Court	 for  the  necessarycertificate  of fitness for making an appeal to this  Court.The  learned Judge, who had heard the case on  merits,	alsodealt  with  this application, and refused to  certify	thatthis  was  a fit case for appeal to this  Court	 under	Art.134(1)(c)  of the Constitution.	 The petitioner	 moved	thisCourt and obtained the necessary special leave to appeal.It  is	regrettable that the respondents  have	remained  exparts in this Court.  The learned counsel for the  appellanthas  urged that the courts below had unduly  restricted	 themeaning	 of the words of s. 295, particularly, the  words  "any  object held sacred by any class of persons ", and	thatthe  words have been used in their fullest amplitude by	 theLegislature,  in order to include any object consecrated  orotherwise, which is held sacred by any class of persons, notnecessarily belonging to a different religion or creed.	  Inthe  first place, whether any object is held sacred  by	 anyclass of persons, must depend upon the evidence in the case,so  also  the effect of the words " with  the  intention  ofthereby insulting the religion of any class1217of  persons or with the knowledge that any class of  personsis likely to consider such destruction, damage or defilementas  an	insult to their religion." In this case,  the  factsalleged	 in  the  petition,  do	 not  appear  to  have	beencontroverted,  but  the	 learned  magistrate,  as  also	 thelearned	 Sessions  Judge and the learned Judge in  the	HighCourt,	have thrown out the petition of complaint solely  onthe  ground  that the image of God Ganesa,  treated  by	 therespondents as alleged by the complainant, could not be saidto  be held sacred by any class of persons.  In the  instantcase, the insult alleged was by destruction of the image  ofGod Ganesa.  Apart from the question of evidence, which	 hadyet  to be adduced, it is a well-knonwn fact that the  imageof Lord Ganesa or any objective representation of a  similarkind,  is  held sacred by certain classes  of  Hindus,	eventhough the image may not have been consecrated.The  learned  Judge in the Court below, has given  much	 toorestricted a meaning to the words any object held sacred  byany  class  of	persons ", by holding  that  only  idols  intemples	  or  idols  carried  in  processions  on   festivaloccasions,  are	 meant to be included  within  those  words.There  are no such express words of limitation in s. 295  ofthe Indian Penal code, and in our opinion, the learned Judgehas clearly misdirected himself in importing those words  oflimitation.  Idols are only illustrative of those words.   Asacred	book,  like the Bible, or the Koran, or	 the  GranthSaheb,	is clearly within the ambit of those general  words.If  the courts below were right in their  interpretation  ofthe  crucial  words  in s. 295,	 the  burning  or  otherwisedestroying  or	defiling such sacred books,  will  not	comewithin	the 'Purview of the penal statute.  In our  opinion,placing	 such  a restricted interpretation on the  words  ofsuch  general import, is against all established  canons  ofconstruction.	Any object however trivial or  destitute  ofreal value in itself, if regarded as sacred by any class  ofpersons would come within the meaning of the penal  section.Nor is it absolutely necessary that the object, in order1218to be held sacred, should have been actually worshipped.  Anobject	may  be held sacred by a class	of  persons  withoutbeing worshipped by them.  It is clear, therefore, that	 thecourts	below  were rather cynical in  so  lightly  brushingaside  the  religious  susceptibilities	 of  that  class  ofpersons	 to  which the complainant claims  to  belong.	 Thesection	  has  been  intended  to  respect   the   religioussusceptibilities   of	persons	  of   different   religiouspersuasions   or  creeds.   Courts  have  got  to  be	verycircumspect  in such matters, and to pay due regard  to	 thefeelings  and  religious emotions of  different	 classes  ofpersons	  with	different  beliefs,  irrespective   of	 theconsideration  whether or not they share those	beliefs,  orwhether	 they are rational or otherwise, in the	 opinion  ofthe court.As  a result of' these considerations, it must be held	thatthe  courts below have erred in their interpretation of	 thecrucial	 words of s. 295 of the Indian Penal Code.  But	 thequestion  still remains whether, even after  expressing	 ourstrong	disagreement with the interpretation of the  sectionby  the	 courts below, this Court should  direct  a  furtherinquiry	 into the complaint, which has stood  dismissed	 forthe  last about 5 ),ears.  The action complained of  againstthe accused persons, if true, was foolish, to put it mildly,but  as the case has become stale, we do not direct  furtherinquiry	 into this complaint.  If there is a  recurrence  ofsuch  a foolish behaviour on the part of any section of	 thecommunity, we have no doubt that those charged with the dutyof  maintaining	 law and order, will apply the	law  in	 thesense in which we have interpreted the law.  The appeal	 is,therefore, dismissed.Appeal dismissed.1219