PETITIONER:M/S.  SWADESHI COTTON MILLS CO.,LTD., KANPUR	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAJESHWAR PRASHAD AND ORS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:14/11/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  429		  1961 SCR  (2) 359ACT:Industrial Dispute--Compromise during pendency of  appeal---Validity--Procedure--The U. P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947(U.   P. XXVIII of 1947), ss. 6-c, 2(t)--U.   P.  IndustrialDisputes  Rules, 1957, r. 5(1)--Payment of Wages  Act,	1936(Act 4 of 1936), s. 23.HEADNOTE:While	this  appeal  by  special  leave,  relating  to	  anindustrial  dispute was pending in this Court a Director  ofthe   appellant	 employer  and	a  representative   of	 therespondents  employees	made  an application  to  the  Courtpraying	 that  an  order  might be  passed  in	terms  of  acompromise  since  an  agreement was alleged  to  have	beenentered into by the appellants and the respondents.  Some ofthe respondents contested this compromise and the court sentissues to the Tribunal for finding whether the alleged	com-promise actually took place between the parties, and if	 so,was it valid.  The Tribunal returned findings to the  effectthat  the compromise did actually take place and was  valid.Those findings were contested in the appeal.Held,  that  a	compromise agreement seeking  to  settle  anindustrial dispute which was still pending decision in	thisCourt  would not contravene the provisions of S. 23  of	 thePayment of Wages Act which contemplated rights not likely tobe modified or reversed in any judicial proceedings.The  procedure prescribed by s. 6-C of the U. P.  IndustrialDisputes  Act and the provisions thereof did not affect	 thepowers	of this Court, or the competence of the parties,  toamicably settle a dispute pending before it.The  procedure for obtaining an order in terms of  the	com-promise entered into between the parties pending the  appealin  this  Court	 is  prescribed by its	own  rules  and	 theprovisions  of S. 2(t) of the U. P. Industrial Disputes	 Actand  rule  5(1)	 of  the  Rules	 made  thereunder  have	  noapplication to such case.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 53 of 1958.Appeal by special leave from the Decision dated February 28,1957,  of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, Bombay,  in  AppealNo. 111-160 of 1956.S.   P. Varma, for the appellants.360L.   K. Jha, Janardan Sharma, R. C. Prasad and Maqbool AhmadKhan, for the respondents.1960.  November 14.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal by special leave arises	froman   industrial	 dispute  between  the	 appellant   Messrs.Swadeshi  Cotton Mills and the respondents,  its  employees,and  the short preliminary question which is raised for	 ourdecision  is whether an order should not be passed  in	thisappeal in terms of the compromise agreement alleged to	havebeen reached between the appellant and the respondents.	  Itappears	 that  on December 28, 1955, an	 industrial  disputebetween the parties was referred by the Government of  UttarPradesh	 to the Industrial Tribunal, U. P.,  Allahabad,	 foradjudication  under ss. 3, 4 and 8 of the U.  P.  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947  (U.P.  Act  XXVIII  of  1947)  and  inpursuance  of  the  provisions of cl. 11 of  G.	 O.  No.  U-464(LL)/XXXVI-B-257 (LL)/1954 issued on July 14, 1954.	 Thedispute	 thus  referred was whether the	 existing  rates  ofwages  of jobbers mentioned in the annexure employed in	 theweaving	 department of the appellant need any  revision;  ifso,  with  what details and from what date  ?  The  Tribunaltried this issue and came to the conclusion that no case forrevision had been made out by the respondents.	Against thisdecision of the Tribunal the respondents preferred an appealbefore	 the  Labour  Appellate	 Tribunal.    Their   appealsucceeded and the Appellate Tribunal directed that the awardof  the original Tribunal should be set aside, and that	 theappellant  "  shall introduce from the date of	reference  auniform	 rate  of two annas in both the old  and  new  shedsirrespective  of  the number of looms assigned to  the	linejobbers	 ".  It would be noticed that as a  result  of	thisdecision  the  existing	 rates have  been  revised  and	 therevision  has  been ordered to take  effect  retrospectivelyfrom the date of reference.  It is against this decision  ofthe  Labour  Appellate	Tribunal  that	the  appellant	 haspreferred the present appeal by special leave.361Pending this appeal in this Court the appellant purported toenter  into a compromise with the respondents and the  termsof the compromise were reduced to writing, and in  pursuanceof the said compromise an application was made to this Courton  February 26,1958, signed by Mr. Bagla, on behalf of	 theappellant  in his capacity as a Director of  the  appellant,and  Mr.  Maqbool Ahmad Khan, for the  respondents,  in	 hiscapacity  as the General Secretary of the Suti Mill  MazdoorSabha, Kanpur.	This application set out the material  termsof  the compromise.  One of the terms of the  compromise  isthat  the revised rate should take effect not from  December28,  1955, which is the date of reference but from  July  1,1957.	Certain other modifications have also been  made  inthe decision under appeal.Before	the appeal could be placed on the Board for  passingorders	in terms of this compromise an application was	madeon  behalf  of	some of the respondents	 alleging  that	 theGeneral	 Secretary  Mr. Khan had no authority  or  power  toenter  into  any  compromise  as  a  representative  of	 therespondents,  and that the compromise alleged to  have	beenentered into by him with the appellant was not acceptable tothe  respondents.  In support of this case  the	 applicationreferred  to a resolution passed by the General	 Council  ofthe  Mazdoor  Sabha whereby it was declared that  no  officebearer could conclude an agreement with an employer about anindustrial  dispute  without  the  consent  of	the  GeneralCouncil,  and  reliance	 was also  placed  on  the  relevantprovisions in the constitution of the Mazdoor Sabha.Thereafter  the	 petition for compromise was  placed  beforethis  Court  for hearing on April 10, 1960,  and  the  Courtdirected  that the application for recording  compromise  aswell as the appeal itself should both be placed together forhearing	 before the Court as soon as the parties file  theirrespective  statements	of the case.  After  the  statementswere  filed the appeal and the petition were  placed  beforethis Court on May 5, 1960, and the Court by an interlocutoryjudgment46362sent two issues to the Tribunal with a direction that the  Tribunalshould hear the parties on those issues and  make	 itsfindings thereon.  The two issues were: (1)  Has	 thecompromise  set up by the appellant taken place between	 theparties; (2) If yes, is the compromise valid ? In  pursuanceof this order the Tribunal has recorded evidence, heard	 theparties	 and  made its	 findings.  It has  found  that	 thecompromise  in	fact  has  taken place	as  alleged  in	 thepetition made before this Court in that behalf, and that thesaid  compromise  is  valid.   In  dealing  with  the  firstquestion  of fact the Tribunal has considered  the  evidenceexhaustively  in the light of the background of the  disputebetween the parties; it has found that negotiations went  onbetween	 the  parties for a fairly long	 time  during  whichperiod	the  parties  discussed the pros  and  cons  of	 thecompromise,  that  during these negotiations  Mr.  Khan	 waswatchful  of  the  interests of the  respondents,  that	 thecompromise had been approved by the workmen concerned,	thaton  the whole it is to their advantage and does not  at	 allmilitate  against  the	accepted  principles  of  industrialadjudication,  and what is more it has been acted  upon	 andhas not remained a mere paper transaction.  It has explainedthat  the  opposition  to  the	compromise  proceeded	sub-stantially from the dispute between Mr. Khan, the Secretary,and  Mr.  Bajpai, the President, and the  Tribunal  felt  nodoubt  that  the  compromise was the  result  of  bona	fideattempt	 on  the  part of both the  parties  to	 settle	 thedispute	 amicably  in  order  to  create  goodwill  and	 co-operation amongst the employer and the employees.On  the	 question  of law raised by  the  second  issue	 theTribunal  has held that the compromise is  perfectly  valid.It   has   considered  the  relevant   provisions   of	 theconstitution  of  this	Sabha, the  practice  prevailing  inregard	to  such compromises and to  several  agreements  ofcompromise entered into consistently with the said practice.It  was	 urged before the Tribunal that	 the  compromise  isinvalid	 under s. 6-B of the U.P. Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947, as well as s. 2(vi). (c)	   of  the Payment of  WagesAct, 1936 (Act 4 of 1936).363These  contentions have been rejected by the  Tribunal.	  Inthe  result the findings recorded on both the issues are  infavour of the compromise.After  these  findings	were received in  this	Court,	the'appeal	and the compromise petition have now come before  usfor  final  disposal.  The finding of fact recorded  by	 theTribunal  on  the  first issue has not been  and  cannot  bechallenged  before us.	It must( therefore be taken to	havebeen established that at the relevant time Mr. Khan was	 theGeneral Secretary of the respondents Sabha, and as such	 wasentitled to represent them and did represent them during thecourse of the present adjudication proceedings, and that thecompromise  reached  between him and the  appellant  is	 theresult	of mutual discussions carried on for some  time	 andits  terms on the whole are beneficial to  the	respondents.The practice prevailing in this Sabha and a large number  ofprecedents  which  are	consistent with	 the  said  practiceindicate  clearly  that	 the  Secretary	 of  the  Union	 whorepresents  the	 workmen in industrial disputes	 has  alwaysbeen  authorised and has exercised his authority  to  settlesuch  disputes when it was thought reasonable and proper  todo  so.	 As we have often indicated it is  always  desirablethat industrial disputes should be amicably settled  becausesuch  settlement conduces to happy  industrial	relationshipand  encourages co-operation between the parties.   That  iswhy  when industrial disputes are brought before this  Courtunder  Art.  136 of the Constitution  this  Court  generallyappreciates  attempts made to settle disputes amicably,	 andin  proper cases encourages such settlements.  Mr. Jha,	 forthe  respondents,  however, contends  that  though  amicablesettlement   of	  industrial  disputes	may   otherwise	  bedesirable, in law such settlement or compromise is  illegal.If  we come to the conclusion that compromise of  industrialdisputes  pending  an  appeal is prohibited by	law,  or  isotherwise  inconsistent	 with  such  provisions	 it  may  benecessary to hold that the present compromise is bad in	 lawhowever much amicable settlement of industrial disputes	 mayotherwise be desirable.	 Therefore the question which arisesfor our364decision  on  the  present compromise petition	is:  Is	 thecontention raised by Mr. Jha correct that the compromise  isinvalid in law ?The first point urged by Mr. Jha in support of this argumentis that the present compromise is prohibited by a. 23 of thePayment of Wages Act.  This Act has been passed to  regulatethe payment of wages to certain classes of persons  employedin  industry,  and  there is no doubt  that  the  wages asrevised by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the present casewould constitute wages under s. 2 (vi) of this Act.  Section23  provides  that any contract or agreement,  whether	madebefore	or  after the commencement of this Act,	 whereby  anemployed person relinquishes any right conferred by this Actshall  be null and void in so far as it purports to  deprivehim  of	 such right.  The relevant provisions  of  this	 Actrequire	 the fixation of wage periods, provide for the	timeof  payment  of wages, authorises  certain  deductions,	 andpermits	 the  imposition  of  fines  only  subject  to	 theconditions specified in that behalf.  Section 15 of the	 Actprovides  for  the determination of claims  arising  out  ofdeduction of wages or delay in payment of wages and penaltyfor  malicious or vexatious claims.  Section  16  prescribesfor the making of an application in which such claims can beset  up;  and  a.  18  provides	 for  the  powers  for	 theauthorities appointed under the Act.  Mr. Jha contends	thatthe revised wage structure directed by the Labour  AppellateTribunal  entitles the respondents to claim  the  respectiveamounts	 there indicated as their wages, and the  effect  ofthe   impugned	compromise  is	that  the  respondents	 arerelinquishing a part of their right in that behalf.  Mr. Jhacon. tends that in giving up their claim for the  retrospec-tive  operation	 of  the decision of  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  for  a  substantial part of the  period  the	res-pondents  are required to contract themselves out  of  theirlegal  rights  conferred  by  the  award  and  there.	forereferable  to  this  Act,  and	that  makes  the  compromiseinvalid.    This   argument  is	 misconceived	because	  itfallaciously  assumes  that the decision  under	 appeal	 hasbecome final and that the rights accruing under365the said decision would not be and cannot be affected by anycompromise.   The most significant fact to remember in	thisconnection is that the decision on( which the alleged rightsare based is itself subject to an appeal before this  Court,and  in that sense it is not a final decision at all; it  isliable	to  be reversed or modified, and that being  so	 therights claimable  under the said decision are also liable tobe  defeated,  or materially affected.	In such a  case	 theindustrial' dispute would undoubtedly be pending before thisCourt,	and it would be idle for Mr. Jha to contend that  anattempt	 to  settle  such  a dispute and  not  to  invite  adecision  of this Court contravenes the provisions of a.  23of this Act.  Just as an industrial dispute could have	beensettled	 between the parties either before it  was  referredfor adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, or after it wasreferred  and  before  the  award  was	pronounced  by	 theTribunal,  so would it be open to the parties to settle	 thedispute	 so long as it was pending either before the  LabourAppellate Tribunal or before this Court.  The provisions  ofs.  23 of this Act postulate certain definite  rights  whichare  not likely or liable to be modified or reversed in	 anypending	 judicial  proceedings,	 and since  this  factor  isabsent in cases where an appeal is pending before this Courtit  would not be reasonable to rely on the  said  provisionsand  contend  that  they in substance  prevent	or  prohibitamicable settlement of disputes.The  other  argument  urged  against  the  validity  of	 thecompromise is based on the provisions of s. 6-C of the U. P.Industrial  Disputes  Act, 1947.  This	section	 correspondssubstantially to s. 19 of the Industrial Disputes Act XIV of1947.	It provides, inter alia, that an award shall in	 thefirst  instance	 remain in operation for the period  of	 oneyear or such shorter period as may be specified therein, andgives  the  State Government power to extend the  period  ofoperation  from	 time  to time if it thinks  fit.   It	alsoprovides that the State Government, either on its own motionor  on	the  application of any party bound  by	 the  award,shorten	 the  period of its operation, if it is	 shown	thatthere has been a material change in the circumstances366on  which  the award was based.	 The argument  is  that	 anymodification  in the award can only be made by adopting	 theprocedure prescribed by s. 6-C.	 In our opinion there is  nosubstance in this argument.  Section 6-C undoubtedly confersupon the State Government certain powers to fix the durationof  the	 operation of the award, but there can be  no  doubtthat  the section can have no bearing on the powers of	thisCourt  in dealing with an industrial dispute brought  beforeit  under Art. 136 of the Constitution.	 The award to  whichs.  6-C	 refers is an award which has become  final  in	 thesense  that it is no longer subject to consideration by	 anyTribunal or Court.  So long as an award is pending before  aTribunal or a Court the jurisdiction of the Tribunal or	 theCourt to deal with it in accordance with law is not affectedby s. 6-C, and the competence of the parties to settle theirdispute pending before the Tribunal or the Court is also notaffected  or impaired by the said section.  In other  words,what we have said about the argument based on the provisionsof  s.	23 of the Payment of Wages Act	applies	 with  equalforce to the present argument as well.Then it is contended that the impugned compromise is   asettlement within the meaning of s. 2(t) of the	 U.    P.Act  and  as  such it can be executed  only  in	 the  mannerprescribed by the Act.	Section 2(t) defines a settlement asone  which  is	arrived at in  the  course  of	conciliationproceedings and as including a written agreement between theemployer  and the workmen arrived at otherwise than  in	 thecourse	of conciliation proceedings when such  an  agreementhas  been signed between the parties thereto in such  manneras may be prescribed and a copy thereof has been sent to theState Government and the conciliation officer.	Rule 5(1) ofthe  U. P. Industrial Disputes Rules, 1957,  prescribes	 theprocedure for recording a settlement as defined by s.  2(t).It is true that this procedure has not been followed, but itis  difficult  to understand how s. 2(t)  or  the  procedureprescribed  by	r.  5(1)  can  have  any  application  to  acompromise agreement which has been entered into between theparties pending the367appeal	in  this  Court.   The	compromise  in	question  isintended  to  be  filed in this Court  for  the	 purpose  ofenabling the parties to request this Court to pass an, orderin  terms  of  the  said  compromise.	The  procedure	 forobtaining  such	 an order which has to be  followed  is	 theprocedure prescribed by the rules of this Court, just as  ifa  compromise was reached before the Tribunal the  procedureto be followed before it would be, the procedure  prescribedby  its	 rules.	  Therefore  we	 have  no  doubt  that	 thecompromise   in	 question  cannot  attract   the   procedureprescribed by r. 5(1).The result is that the finding recorded by the Tribunal thatthe  compromise in question is valid is obviously right	 andmust be confirmed.  Since it is found that the compromise infact  has  taken place and is otherwise valid,	we  have  nohesitation  in	directing that an order should be  drawn  interms of the said compromise in the present appeal.Order accordingly.