PETITIONER:BALDEO SINGH AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHAR AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/04/1957BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  612		  1957 SCR  995ACT:Gram  Cutcherry-Criminal jurisdiction--Concurrent  jurisdic-tion	of   ordinary	criminal    Courts--Enactment,	  ifdiscriminatory	in character--Bihar Panchayat Raj Act,	1947(Bihar	Act  7	of  1948),  ss. 60,  62,  68,  69,  70,	 73-Constitution of India, Art.  14.HEADNOTE:The appellants were convicted of an offence under s. 379  ofthe Indian penal Code by a full bench of the Gram  Cutcherryconstituted under the provisions of the Bihar Panchayat	 RajAct,  1947.   It was contended for the appellants  that	 theconviction was bad on the grounds, inter alia, that s. 62 ofthe Act which provided for the criminal jurisdiction of GramCutcherries  gave  concurrent jurisdiction to  the  ordinarycriminal Courts and left it open to a party to go either  tothe  ordinary  criminal	 Courts or to a bench  of  the	GramCutcherry,  and	 as the procedure followed in  the  ordinarycriminal  Courts  was  substantially  different	 from	thatfollowed by a Gram Cutcherry, the Act was discriminatory  innature and as such infringed Art. 14 of the Constitution.Held,  that  the  impugned provisions of  the  Act  are	 notdiscriminatory in nature.The  scheme  of the Act is that a case	or  suit  cognizableunder the Act by a Gram Cutcherry should be tried only by itunless the Sub-Divisional Magistrate or the Munsif concernedchooses to take action under s. 70 or S. 73 of the Act.	 The996reference to concurrent jurisdiction in s. 62 is explainableby reason of the provisions in ss. 69, 7o and 73, so that onthe transfer or withdrawal of a case from the Gram Cutcherryor the cancellation of the jurisdiction of the bench, it maynot  be said that the ordinary criminal Courts also have  nojurisdiction to try it.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 145 of1955.  Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order  datedJuly  20,  1954,  of  the  Patna  High	Court  in   CriminalMiscellaneous No. 228 of 1954.    S.	  P. Verma, for the appellants.    R.	  C. Prasad, for the respondents.   1957.  April 22.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyS.K. DAS J.-This is an appeal by special leave from    anorder of summary dismissal passed by the High	  Court	  ofPatna  on July 20, 1954, on an application under  Arts.	 226and  227 of the Constitution of India.	The  relevant  factsare these.  One Uma Shankar Prasad instituted a case againsteight  persons,	 including the three appellants	 before	 us,Baldeo	Singh,	Ramdeo	Singh and  Sheodhar  Singh,  on	 theallegation that they had forcibly cut and removed 'urad' andKodo  crops from his field in village Darwan on	 October  1,1953,  at about 10 a.m. Uma Shankar said that  he  objected,but  was threatened with assault.  The case  was  institutedbefore	the  Gram  Cutcherry of Bankat in  the	district  ofChamparan,  constituted	 under the provisions of  the  BiharPanchayat  Raj Act, 1947 (Bihar Act 7 of 1948),	 hereinafterreferred  to  as the Act.  Altogether  four  witnesses	wereexamined  in the case, two on behalf of the prosecution	 andtwo  for  the accused persons.	The defence of some  of	 theaccused	 persons was that the land on which the crops  stoodbelonged to one Yogi Sahni, who had sold it to Sunder Singh,accused,  on September, 25, 1953.  On December 28,  1953,  abench  of  the	Gram Cutcherry	acquitted  all	the  accusedpersons.   On January 7, 1954, Uma Shankar Prasad  preferredan  appeal under s. 67 of the Act.  The appeal was heard  onJune 24, 1954,997and  the  full bench by a majority, with  three	 dissentientpanches,  held	the three appellants guilty of	the  offenceunder  s.  379,	 Indian Penal Code, and	 sentenced  them  toimprisonment  for  fifteen days each.  The  appellants	thenmoved the High Court of Patna under Arts. 226 and 227 of theConstitution, with the result stated above.  The  appellantsthen moved this Court and obtained special leave under	Art.136 of the Constitution.  Learned  counsel  for	 the  appellants  has  pressed	 thefollowing  contentions	before us.  His first  and  foremostcontention is that the Act, by reason of certain  provisionscontained  therein, is discriminatory in nature and  offendsagainst	 Art. 14 of the Constitution.  It I s  advisable  toset  out first those provisions of the Act which,  accordingto learned counsel for the appellants, are discriminatory incharacter.   Section 62 of the Act, which provides  for	 thecriminal  jurisdiction	of  Gram Cutcherries,  is  in  theseterms:   "  Notwithstanding  anything	 contained in  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure, 1898, and subject to the provisions  ofthis  Act,  a  bench  of  the  Gram  Cutcherry	shall	havejurisdiction  concurrent  with that of	the  Criminal  Courtwithin	the local limits of whose jurisdiction the bench  issituate	 for the trial of the following offences as well  asabetment  of  and attempts to commit any  such	offence,  ifcommitted  within  the	local limits  of  its  jurisdiction,namely:  (a)offences  under  the Indian Penal Code,  sections	140,143, 145, 147, 151, 153, 160, 172, 174, 178, 179, 269,	277,279, 283, 285, 286, 289, 290, 294, 323, 334, 336, 341,	352,356, 357, 358, 374, 379, 380, 381, 403, 411, 426, 428,	430,447, 448, 461, 504, 506, 510;  (b)offences under the Bengal Public Gambling Act, 1867;  (c)offences  under  sections	24  and	 26  of	 the  CattleTrespass Act, 1871;  (d) except as otherwise provided, offences under this	 Actor under any rule or bye-law made thereunder;(e)any other offence under any other enactment, if empoweredin this behalf by the Government:998Provided  that	the bench shall not take cognizance  of	 anyoffence	 under sections 379, 380, 381 or 411 of	 the  IndianPenal Code in which the value of the property alleged to  bestolen exceeds fifty rupees or in which the accused-(i)has	been previously convicted of an	 offence  punishableunder	Chapter	  XVII	of  the	 Indian	 Penal	 Code	withimprisonment of either description for a term of three yearsor upwards; or(ii)has been previously fined for theft by any bench of	 theGram Cutcherry; or(iii)	  is  a registered member of a criminal tribe  undersection 4 of the Criminal Tribes Act, 1924; or (iv) has beenbound over to be of good behaviour in proceedings institutedunder section 109 or 110 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure,1898."  It  is  worthy  of  note that	 the  section  contains	 twoimportant  qualifications:  one	 is contained  in  the	non-obstante clause with which the section begins and the  otheris contained in the expression 'subject to the provisions ofthis Act.' The importance of this second qualification	willbe apparent when some of the other provisions of the Act areset out.  Subject to the two qualifications mentioned above,s.  62	gives  a bench of the  Gram  Cutcherry	Jurisdictionconcurrent  with that of the ordinary criminal Court  withinthe local limits of whose jurisdiction the bench is  situatefor the trial of the offences mentioned therein.  Section 63vests the bench with the powers of a Magistrate of the thirdclass.	Section 64 is not relevant for our purpose and	neednot  be	 read.	 Section 65  provides  for  exclusive  civiljurisdiction  of  a bench of the Gram Cutcherry	 in  certainclasses	 of suits, subject to certain provisos.	 Section  66says that certain suits shall not be heard by a bench of theGram  Cutcherry.   Section 67 provides	for  appeals.	Thencomes  s.  68, which is very important for our	purpose	 andmust be quoted in extenso--"  No court shall take cognizance of any case or suit  whichis cognizable under the Act by a bench of the Gram Cutcherryunless an order to the contrary has been passed by the	Sub-Divisional Magistrate or999the Munsif concerned under the provisions of the Act or	 anyother law for the time being in force."Section 69 gives the Sub-Divisional Magistrate or the Munsifpower to transfer a case or suit pending before a Magistrateor  a  Munsif  to  a bench  of	the  Gram  Cutcherry  havingjurisdiction to try it.	 Section 70 gives the Sub-DivisionalMagistrate or the Munsif power to withdraw any case or	suitpending	 before a bench of the Gram Cutcherry  and  transferthe same to the ordinary Courts.  Section 71 provides, interalia, that no legal practitioner shall appear, plead or	 acton  behalf of any party in any suit or case before the	GramCutcherry.   Section  73 gives power to	 the  Sub-DivisionalMagistrate  and	 the Munsif to take  necessary	action	whenthere  has  been  a miscarriage of justice or  there  is  anapprehension  of a miscarriage of justice.  Sub-section	 (2)of  s. 73 says that when an order under sub-s. (1) has	beenmade in respect of any suit or case, the complainant or	 theplaintiff,  as	the case may be, may institute the  case  orsuit afresh in the Court of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate ora Munsif of competent jurisdiction.The  argument of learned counsel for the appellants is	thatinasmuch  as  s. 62 gives only concurrent  jurisdiction,  itleaves	it  open  to a party to go either  to  the  ordinarycriminal  Courts  or  to  a bench  of  the  Gram  Cutcherry.According  to him, this opens the door	for  discrimination,because	 the  procedure followed in  the  ordinary  criminalCourts	is substantially different from that followed  by  aGram Cutcherry.	 The procedure to be followed by the  latteris indicated in s. 60 which states:" Subject to the provisions of this Act and to any rules  ordirections  that may be made or issued by the Government  inthis behalf, the procedure to be followed by a bench of	 theGram  Cutcherry	 shall be such as it may consider  just	 andconvenient  and the bench shall not be bound to	 follow	 anylaws  of  evidence  or procedure other	than  the  procedureprescribed by or under this Act."This argument as to discrimination fails to take note of theother provisions of the Act which we have set1000out  above.   Section 62 is, in express	 terms,	 subject  toother  provisions  of the Act; therefore, it is	 subject  tos.68 which states that no Court shall take cognizance of anycase or suit which is cognizable under the Act by a bench ofthe Gram Cutcherry, unless an order to the contrary has beenpassed	by  the	 Sub-Divisional	 Magistrate  or	 the  Munsifconcerned  under the provisions of the Actor any  other	 lawfor the time being in force.  On a proper construction of s.62  and	 s.  68,  it  is  clear	 that  there  is  really  nodiscrimination and a case cognizable by a bench of the	GramCutcherry  must	 be tried there, unless there  has  been  anorder  to  the	contrary in the	 exercise  of  his  judicialdiscretion  by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate or	 the  Munsifconcerned as contemplated by the latter part of s. 68.	 Theprovisions  of	the  Act under which such an  order  can  bepassed	are  contained in the  succeeding  sections  alreadyreferred to by us.  The whole scheme of Ch.  VII of the	 Actis  that a case or suit cognizable under the Act by  a	GramCutcherry  should be tried by a bench of the Gram  Cutcherrysave  in those exceptional cases which are provided  for  inss. 70 and 73.	The reference to concurrent jurisdiction  ins. 62 is explainable by reason of the provisions in ss.	 69,70  and 73, so that on the transfer or withdrawal of a	casefrom   the  Gram  Cutcherry  or	 the  cancellation  of	 thejurisdiction  of  the  bench, it may not be  said  that	 theordinary  criminal Courts also have no jurisdiction  to	 tryit.  For  these reasons, we are of the view that  the  impugnedprovisions of the Act are not discriminatory in nature,	 andthere is no merit in the first contention pressed before us.  Secondly, learned counsel for the appellants has  referredus to rr. 60 and 61 of the Bihar Gram Cutcherry Rules, 1949.Rule  60(2)  requires that the decision of  the	 full  benchshall  be  signed  by the members and  where  a	 dissentientjudgment  has  been delivered, the minute of  dissent  shallalso  be  recorded under the signatures	 of  the  dissentingmembers.   These requirements were fulfilled in the  presentcase' and no materials have been placed before us which	 maylead  to  the  conclusion  that rr.  60	 and  61  have	beenviolated.1001  The third and last contention on behalf of the  appellantsis  that  the conviction of two of  the	 appellants,  RamdeoSingh  and  Sheodhar  Singh, is bad, because  there  was  noevidence at all against them.  The two witnesses examined onbehalf	of  the prosecution definitely said  that  they	 sawBaldeo	Singh  (appellant) and two other named	persons	 whohave  been  acquitted, but did not  identify  the  remainingpersons	 who  also forcibly cut and removed the	 crops.	  Onthis  evidence, there was no legal basis for the  convictionof Ramdeo Singh and Sheodhar Singh.  Our attention has	beendrawn to Ramdeo Singh's own statement in which he said	thathe had removed the crops of his own field'.  That statement,standing by itself, is not an admission of guilt.  We  agreewith  learned counsel for the appellants that there  was  noevidence whatever to sustain the conviction of Ramdeo  Singhand Sheodhar Singh.  Their conviction was manifestly, and onthe face of the record, erroneous.The  High Court was moved for the exercise of its  power  ofsuperintendence under Art. 227, and it is open to us in thisappeal	to  exercise the same power.  We  would	 accordinglyallow this appeal so far as Ramdeo Singh and Sheodhar  Singhare  concerned and set aside their conviction and  sentence.They  will  now be discharged from bail.  So far  as  BaldeoSingh  is concerned, he was rightly convicted.	We  do	not,however,  think	 that any useful purpose will be  served  bysending	  him  to  jail	 for  a	 short	period.	  We   wouldaccordingly reduce his sentence to a fine of Rs. 30/only  orin default imprisonment as directed by the full bench of theGram Cutcherry.	 The appeal is disposed of accordingly.		     Appeal disposed of accordingly.1291002