PETITIONER:BHOGILAL CHUNILAL PANDYA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:04/11/1958BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  356		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 310 CITATOR INFO : F	    1966 SC  40	 (5)ACT:       Evidence-Notes  of attendance	prepared  by	 Solicitor-       Admissibility of for corroborating Solicitor --statement	 if       communication to another necessary for admissibility  Indian       Evidence Act, 1872 (1 Of 1872) s. 157.HEADNOTE:The  appellant,	 a cashier of a Company,  was  charged	withcommitting  criminal breach of trust.  When the	 defalcationwas discovered certain conversations took place between	 theChairman  and Secretary of the Company and the appellant  inthe presence of a Solicitor.  Soon afterwards, the Solicitorprepared notes of attendance of these conversations.  At thetrial these notes were produced to corroborate the testimonyof  the Solicitor.  The appellant objected that these  noteswere  not admissible under s. 157 of the Evidence  Act.	  Hecontended that the word " statement " in s. 157 required thecommunication  of  the	statement by the  maker	 to  anotherperson and that it did not include any writing or memorandummade  by  a  person  for  his  own  use	 when  it  was	 notcommunicated to another person.311Held, that the notes of attendance were admissible under  s.157.  The word "statement" in s. 157 means only "  somethingthat  is  stated " and the element of communication  is	 notnecessary  before  " something that is stated  "  becomes  astatement under that section.The  King  v.  Nga Myo, A.I.R. (1938)  Rang.  177,  BhogilalBhikachand  v. The Royal Insurance Co. Ltd.,  A.I.R.  (1928)P.C. 54, referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION Criminal Appeal No.  31  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedAugust	8,  1957,  of  the Bombay  High	 Court	in  CriminalReference  No.	129  of 1957, arising out of  the  order  ofReference  to the High Court dated December 1, 1956, of	 theCourt of Session for Greater Bombay in Case No. 82 of 1956.Purshottam  Tricumdas, G. R. Ganatra and 1. N.	Shroff,	 forthe appellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General  of India	 and  R.  H.Dhebar, for the respondent.1958.	November 4. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyWANCHOO,  J.This appeal by special leave is limited  to	 thequestion of admissibility in evidence of a certain  documentin a criminal trial.  The brief facts of the case  necessaryfor elucidation of the question are these: Bhogilal ChunilalPandya appellant was tried for committing criminal breach oftrust in respect of Rs. 4,14,750 and the trial was with	 theaid  of	 a jury.  He was the cashier in	 the  employment  ofMessrs.	  Morarji  Gokuldas Spinning and Weaving  Co.  Ltd.,Bombay.	  As  such he was entrusted with the  funds  of	 thecompany.  The charge against him was that between July 1 andDecember  1, 1954, he embezzled the amount mentioned  above.Among  the  witnesses for the  prosecution  were  Gopikisan,Chairman,  Modi, Secretary, and Santook, a solicitor of	 thecompany.   When	 the  defalcation  was	discovered,  certainconversations took place between Gopikisan, Modi and Santookwho  was  consulted in this connection, and  the  appellant,between January 21 and 27,3121955.  Santook prepared what are called notes of  attendanceof these conversations soon afterwards.	 In his evidence  incourt,	Santook deposed to what has taken place between	 himand  these persons on those dates.  The notes of  attendancemarked	Ex.   V	 were  also  produced  to  corroborate	 thetestimony  of  Santook.	 An objection was taken	 before	 thetrial  judge  to the admissibility of these  notes  oil	 twogrounds, namely(1)  that they could not be admitted in evidence as  ,copieshad  not  been supplied to the accused under s. 173  of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure, and(2)  that they could not be given in evidence unders.  157 of the Evidence Act (hereinafter called the Act)  ascorroboration of Santook's evidence.The  trial  judge  negatived  both  these  contentions	 andadmitted the notes in evidence.	 He referred to them in	 hischarge to the jury.  Eventually, however, the jury  returneda  verdict of not guilty by a majority of 5 : 3.  The  trialjudge thereupon made a reference to the High Court under  s.307 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	The High Court	wentthrough	 the entire evidence, including Ex.  V.,  found	 thecase proved, and convicted the appellant.Learned counsel for the appellant has given up the attack onthe  admissibility of these notes on the basis of s. 173  ofthe  Code of Criminal Procedure in view of the	decision  ofthis  Court in Narayan Rao v. The State, of  Andhra  Pradesh(1).  He has, however, strenuously contended that the  notescannot be admitted in evidence under s. 157 of the Act.Section 157 is in these terms- In  order to corroborate the testimony of a wit. ness,	 anyformer	statement made by such witness relating to the	samefact,  at  or about the time when the fact  took  place,  orbefore	any authority legally competent to  investigate	 thefact, may be proved."The contention is that the words 'statement made by' in thissection	 require that there must be a communication  of	 thestatement  by the maker of it to another person and  that  astatement within the meaning of s. 157 does not include	 anywriting or(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 283.313memorandum  made by a person for his own use when it is	 notcommunicated to, any other; person.  It is said that: such awriting	 may  be used to refresh the memory of	a,  witness,under s. 159; but: it does not become admissible in evidenceunless	the  other party crossexamines the witness  on	the,document under s.. 161. In this	   there, was no question ofcross-examination upon	 the  document	as  the	 prosecutionitself produced the  notes, during, the examination-in-chiefof  Santook  in	 order to corroborate  him,  In	 short,	 thecontention, of the, learned Counsel is that such a  writing,can  only,  be	used under s. 159  And	cannot	be  called.astatement  within  the	meaning	 of s.	157,  for  the	word'statement ' used in s. 157  implies that it must have	beencommunicated to ,another person.Now, the word statement is not defined in the Act.  We have,therefore  to go to the dictionary meaning of the  word,  inorder  to  discover what it means.  Assistance may  also  betaken  from the use of the ' word statement' in other  partsof  the	 Act  to discover in what sense	 it  has  been	usedtherein.The primary meaning of the word I statement' to be found  inShorter	 Oxford Engligh Dictionary and Webster's  New  WorldDictionary  is I something that is stated.  Another  meaningthat is given in the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary is  Iwritten	 or oral communication'.  There is no doubt  that  astatement may be made to some one in the sense of a communi-cation.	  But  that  is not  its  primary  meaning,  Unless,therefore,  there  is something in s. 157 or  in  the  otherprovisions  of the Act, which.compels us to depart from	 theprimary meaning of the word 'statement', there is no  reasonto  hold  that communication to another person	is  of	tileessence and there can be no statement within the meaning  ofs. 157 without such communication.  The word 'statement' hasbeen used in a number of sections of the Act in its  primarymeaning	 of  'something	 that is stated'  and  that  meaningshould	be given to it under S. 157 also unless there  i  s,something  that	 cuts down that meaning for the	 purpose  ofthat section.. Words are generally used in40314the  same  sense  throughout in a statute  unless  there  issomething repugnant in the context.The  first group of sections in the Act in which the word  Istatement'  occurs,  are  ss.  17 to  21,  which  deal	withadmissions.  Section 17 defines the word I admission ss.  18to  20	lay down what statements are admissions, and  s.  21deals  with the proof of admissions against  persons  makingthem.  The words used in ss. 18 to 21 in this connection areI  statements made by'.	 It is not disputed that  statementsmade by persons may be used as admissions against them	eventhough	they  may not have been communicated  to  any  otherperson.	  For example, statements in the account books of  aperson	showing that he was indebted to another	 person	 areadmissions  which can be used against him even though  thesestatements  were  never communicated to	 any  other  person.Illustration  (b)  of  s.  21  also  shows  that  the	word'statement'  used  in these sections  does  not	 necessarilyimply  that  they must have been communicated to  any  otherperson.	 In the Illustration in question entries made in thebook  kept  by a ship's captain in the	ordinary  course  ofbusiness are called statements, though these entries are notcommunicated   to   any	 other	person.	   An	examination,therefore,  of these sections show that in this part of	 theAct  the  word	I statement' has been used  in	its  primarymeaning,   namely,   'something	  that	 is   stated'	 andcommunication  is  not necessary in order that it may  be  astatement.The next section to which reference may be made is s. 32  ofthe  Act.  It deals with statements made by persons who	 aredead,  or cannot be found or who become incapable of  givingevidence  or whose attendance cannot be procured without  anamount	of  delay  or expense which  appears  to  the  courtunreasonable.	Subsection (2) in particular shows that	 anyentry  or  memorandum  made in books kept  in  the  ordinarycourse of business or in the discharge of professional	dutyis a statement, though there is no question of communicatingit to another person.  Similarly, sub-section (6) shows thatstatements relating to the existence of an relationship madein any will or deed relating to the			    315affairs	 of the family, or in any family pedigree,  or	uponany  tombstone,	 or family portrait  are  statements  thoughthere  is  no  question of their  communication	 to  anotherperson.Again,	s. 39 shows that a statement may be contained  in  adocument  which	 forms part of a book.	In  this  case	alsothere is no question of any communication of that  statementto another person in order to make it a statement.Then, there is s. 145, which lays down that a witness may becross-examined	as  to previous statements made	 by  him  inwriting	  or  reduced  into  writing  for  the	purpose	  ofcontradicting  him.   Under this section a  witness  may  becontradicted  by statements in a diary kept by	him,  thoughthere	is  no	question  of  any  communication  of   thosestatements to another person.Then  comes  s. 157, which we have already  set	 out  above.Here also the words used are ,statement made by'.  We see noreason why the word 'statement' should not have been used inits primary meaning in this section also.  There is  nothingin the section which in any way requires that an element  ofcommunication to another person should be imported into	 themeaning of the word 'statement' used therein.  It was  urgedthat  if we do not imply communication to another person  inthe  meaning  of the word 'statement' in  this	section,  itwould result in a witness corroborating himself by producingsome writing made by him and kept secret and that this wouldbe very dangerous.  Now, a distinction must be made  betweenadmissibility of such a writing and the value to be attachedto  it.	 Section 157 makes previous statements even of	thistype  admissible  ; but what value should be attached  to  acorroboration  of  this nature is a different matter  to  bedecided	 by  the court in the circumstances of	each  case,.The witness who is sought to be corroborated is produced  inthe  witness-box  and is liable to  cross-examination.	 Thecross-examiner may show that no reliance should be placed onsuch an earlier statement.  The danger, therefore, which thelearned	 counsel for the appellant emphasized is  really  nodanger	at  all	 for  the  witness  is	subject	 to   cross-examination.  The main316evidence is the statement of the witness in the witness	 boxand  a document of this nature is only used  to	 corroboratehim.  If the main evidence' is shaken by  cross-examination,corroboration by such a document would be Of no use.   Thereis, therefore'no reason to give a different meaning 'to the'word  -'statement' in this section because of  this  allegeddanger, which really does not exist-.Learned	 counsel for the appellant particularly referred  tos. 159 of the Act to show that notes like Ex.  V can only beused  for  refreshing memory and can be evidence  under	 theconditions  prescribed	under s. 161.  He does	not  suggestthat  what comes under s. 159 is necessarily  excluded	fromthe  meaning  of  the word 'statement' under  s.  157.	 Forexample,  a man may write a letter to another  referring  tocertain	 facts at or about the him when they took place	 andmay   use  it  to  refresh  his	 memory.   A  letter  is   acommunication- to another person ; it would; even  accordingto  the learned counsel; for the appellant, be	a  statementwithin	the  meaning  of  s. 157  'and	be'  admissible	 forpurposes  of  corroboration.  Therefore, it cannot  be	saidthat because a document call be used to refresh memory unders.   159 it cannot be a statement within the meaning ofs.   157.   Section 159 deals with a particular sot of	cir-cumstances and the word 'statement' does not appear  thereinat  all.   Section 159 is, in our opinion, - of no  help  indeciding  what	the  word  'statement'	means  in  s.	157.Refreshing memory under s. 159 is confined to statements  inwriting made under the conditions mentioned in that section,while  corroboration  under s. 157 may be by  statements  inwriting	 or even by oral statements.  That is why  there  isdifference  in	language  of  ss. 157  and  159.   But	thatdifference does not, in our opinion, lead to any  conclusionwhich  would cut down the meaning of the  word	'statement',under s. 157 to those statements only which are communicatedto an, other person.  On a consideration, therefore, of	 theprimary	 meaning  of the word `statement'  and	the  varioussections  of  the  Act	we come	 to  the  conclusion  that,%`statement'  under  s.	157 means only	'something  that  isstated' and the element of communication to 'another317person	is not necesssary before `something that is  stated'becomes a statement under that sections In this view of	 thematter	the notes of attendance Would be  statements  withinthe 'meaning of. 157 and would be admissible to	 corroborateS antook's evidence under s. 157.Let us now turn to the cases cited at the bar.	In The, Kingv.  Nga Myo (1), a Full Bench of the Rangoon High Court	 wasconsidering   questions	  relating   to	  the	nature	  ofcorroboration  and the circumstances in which it' should  besought when a person is accused of a. crime and the evidenceagainst	 him  is partly or wholly that of an  accomplice  oraccomplices.   The point, therefore, which is'	specificallyraised before us was not before the Rangoon High Court.	  Inpassing,  the learned Judges referred to s. 157 of  the	 Actand  stated  that it was settled law that  a  person  cannotcorroborate  himself.	In making  these  observations,	 thelearned	 Judges	 must  be referring to the  settled  law  inEngland	 before the amendment by the 'English Evidence	Act.1938.  A change was, however, introduced in the English	 lawby the Evidence, Act, 1938, (I &,2 Geo. 6, c. 28).  That Actprovides  that	in any civil proceeding	 where	direct	oralevidence  of a fact would be admissible, any statement	madeby a person in a document and tending to establish that factshall on production of the original document, be  admissibleas evidence of that fact, if the maker of, the statement hadpersonal,  knowledge  of  the  matters	dealt  with  by	 thestatement  and	if  lie.  is called  as	 a  witness  in	 theproceeding.   Thus  notes  of an  interview  prepared  by  asolicitor similar to Ex., V are now admissible as statementsin  a document under certain conditions in England. (See  inRe.   Powe (deceased) Powe v. Barclays Bank Ltd (2)  ).	 Forthis reason and also because the judgment does not  considerthe specific question raised before us it is of no help.The next case is Bhogilal Bhikachand v. The Royal  lnsuranceCo.  Ltd.  (3).	 Reliance is placed on the  observations  oftheir  Lordships  of  the Privy Council it p.  63  in  thesewords-(1)  A.I.R. 1938 Rang. 177.(2)  [1955] 3 All E.R. 448.(3)  A.I.R. 1928 P. C. 54, 63.318,,The  second  matter  on  which  their	 Lordships  feel  itdesirable  to  observe	is the tendering  and  reception  inevidence  of  the  letter written by  Bhattacharjee  to	 hisofficial chief on 30th June, 1923.  This letter was tenderedand  received  under s. 157, Evidence Act,  Their  Lordshipsdesire	emphatically to say that the letter was	 not,  underthat section, properly receivable for any purpose."These  observations do not in our opinion help	the  learnedcounsel	 for the appellant.  His contention  throughout	 hasbeen that a statement within the meaning of s. 157 has to becommunicated  to  another person.  These  observations	showthat  the  letter which their Lordships were  rejecting	 wascertainly  a  statement which was  communicated	 to  anotherperson.	 Therefore, when their Lordships rejected the letterit  could  not be on the ground that the statement  was	 notcommunicated to another person ; it must be due to the valueof  the evidence of Bhattacharjee, which was  considered  inthe previous paragraph.It is clear, therefore, the word I statement used in s.	 157of the Act means ',something that is stated' and the elementof  communication to another person is not -included in	 it.As  such  the notes of attendance prepared by  Santook	werestatements  within the meaning of s. 157 and  admissible  inevidence.The result is that the appeal fails and is hereby dismissed.Appeal dismissed.319