PETITIONER:SHAMRAO VISHNU PARULEKAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE DISTRICT MAGISTRATE, THANA(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/09/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR   23		  1956 SCR  644ACT:Preventive  detention-Order  of detention  by  the  DistrictMagistrate-Report  sent to the State Government-Approval  bythe  State-Grounds  for	 the order  sent  later-Validity  ofdetention-"Grounds  on	which  the  order  has	been  made",Interpretation	of-Preventive  Detention Act,  1960  (IV  of1950), ss. 3(2)(3), 7.HEADNOTE:Sub-section  (3)  of s. 3 of the Preventive  Detention	Act,1950, provides that when an order of detention is made undersubsection  (2)	 by an officer mentioned therein,  he  shallforthwith  report the fact to the State Government  togetherwith the grounds on which the order has been made ... and nosuch order...shall remain in force for more then twelve daysafter the making thereof unless in the meantime it has	beenapproved by the State Government.Under  s. 7(1) "when a person is detained in pursuance of  adetention  order, the authority making the order  shall	 ...communicate  to him the grounds on which the order has	beenmade,  and  shall  afford him the  earliest  opportunity  ofmaking a representation against the order to the appropriateGovernment".The petitioners were arrested on 27th January 1956 in pursu-anoe of the orders of detention passed under s. 3(2) of	 thePreventive  Detention Act, 1950, by the District  Magistratewho  sent  his report the next day to the  State  Governmentwhich approved of the same on 3rd February 1956.   Meantime,the grounds on which the orders of detention were made	wereformulated by the District Magistrate who furnished the sameto  the petitioners on 31st January 1966 under s. 7  of	 theAct.   A  copy	of  these grounds  was	sent  to  the  StateGovernment on 6th February 1956.  The petitioners challengedthe  validity  of the detention and contended,	inter  alia,that as the expression "grounds on which the order has	beenmade" occurring in S. 3(3) is word for word, the same as  ins.  7 of the Act, it must have the same meaning and  as	 thecopy  of the grounds referred to in s. 7 had not  been	sentalong with the report under s. 3(3) to the State  Governmentbefore it had approved of the orders of detention there	 wasa  violation of the procedure prescribed by the statute	 andconsequently  the  detention became illegal.  It  was  foundthat the report sent by the District Magistrate set out	 notmerely the fact of the making of the order of detention	 butalso the materials on which he had made the order.Held,  that  the  failure  on  the  part  of  the   DistrictMagistrate to645send  along with his report under s. 3(3) the  very  groundswhich  he subsequently furnished the detenu under s.  7,  isnot  a	breach of the requirements of that  sub-section	 andthat it was sufficiently complied with when he reported	 thematerials on which he made the order.The scope and intendment of the expression " the grounds  onwhich the order has been made" in ss. 3(3) and 7 of the	 Actare quite different and it is not essential that the groundswhich are furnished to the detenu must have been before	 theState Government before it approves of the order.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 100 and 101 of 1956.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution for writs  inthe nature of Habeas Corpus.N.   C.	 Chatterjee,  Sadhan  Chandra  Gupta  and  JanardhanSharma, for the petitioners.C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General for India, Porus A.  Mehtaand R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents.1956.	September  17.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byVENKATARAMA AYYAR J.-These are petitions under article 32 ofthe  Constitution for the issue of a writ in the  nature  ofhabeas	 corpus.    On	26th  January  1956   the   DistrictMagistrate,  Than;, passed orders under section 3(2) of	 thePreventive Detention Act IV of 1950 (hereinafter referred toas  the	 Act) for the detention of the petitioners,  and  inexecution of the orders, they were arrested on 27th  January1956.  The next day, the District Magistrate sent his reportto the State Government which on 3rd February 1956  approvedof  the same.  Meantime, on 30th January 1956  the  DistrictMagistrate  formulated	the grounds on which the  orders  ofdetention  were made, and the same were communicated to	 thepetitioners  on 31st January 1956.  A copy of these  groundswas sent to the State Government on 6th February 1956.The  petitioners challenge the validity of the detention  ontwo grounds.  They contend firstly that the grounds for	 theorder  of  detention  which were  furnished  to	 them  undersection 7 of the Act are vague,646and  secondly that the requirements of section 3 (3) of	 theAct  had not been complied with, in that those	grounds	 hadbeen   sent  to	 the  State  Government	 by   the   DistrictMagistrate, not along with, his report on 28th January 1956,but  on	 6th February 1956, after the State  Government	 hadapproved of the order.There  is no substance whatsoever in the  first	 contention.The communication sent to the petitioners runs as follows:"During the monsoon season in the year 1955, you held secretmeeting of Adivasis in Umbergaon, Dhanu, Palghar and  JawharTalukas	 of  Thana  Distric't  at  which  you  incited	 andinstigated  them to have recourse to intimidation,  violenceand  arson  in order to prevent the labourers  from  outsidevillages hired by landlords from working for landlords.	  Asa  direct result of your incitement and	 instigation,  therewere  several cases of intimidation, violence and  arson  inwhich  the  Adivasis from these Talukas indulged.   Some  ofthese cases are described below............"Then  follows  a  detailed statement of the  cases.   It  isargued for the petitioners that no particulars were given asto  when  and where the secret meetings were held  in  whichthey  are  alleged to have participated, and that  the	baldstatement that they took place during the monsoon season wastoo  wide  and vague to be capable of  being  refuted.	 Butthen,  the particulars Which follow give the dates on  whichthe several incidents took place, and it is obvious that themeetings  must have been held near about those	dates.	 Thecommunication  further states that it is not in	 the  publicinterests   to	 disclose  further   facts.    Reading	 thecommunication  as  a  whole, we are of opinion	that  it  issufficiently  definite	to apprise the petitioners  of	whatthey  were  charged with and to enable them  to	 give  theirexplanation therefor.  That was the view taken by Chagla, C.J.  in	the  applications  for	habeas	corpus,	 which	 thepetitioners moved in the High Court of Bombay under  article226  of the Constitution, and we are in agreement  with	 it.The  complaint	that the grounds are  vague  must  thereforefail.As regards the second contention, it will be usefu647to  set out the relevant sections of the Act bearing on	 thequestion:Section 3(1) "The Central Government or the State Governmentmay-(a)if satisfied with respect to any person that with a	viewto preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to-(i)the defence of India, the relations of India with foreignpowers, or the security of India, or(ii)the	 security of the State or the maintenance-of  publicorder, or(iii)the  maintenance of supplies and services essential  tothe community; or(b)if  satisfied  with	respect	 to  any  person  who  is  aforeigner  within  the meaning of the Foreigners  Act,	1946(XXXI of 1946), that with a view to regulating his continuedpresence in India or with a view to making arrangements	 forhis expulsion from India, it is necessary so to do, make  anorder directing that such person be detained.(2)  Any of the following officers, namely,-(a)  District Magistrates,(b)  Additional District Magistrates specially empowered  inthis behalf by the State Government,(c) the	  Commissioner of Police for Bombay, Calcutta, Madrasor Hyderabad,(d)  Collector in the State of Hyderabad may if satisfied asprovided in sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of clause (a) of sub-section	 (1)  exercise	powers conferred by  the  said	sub-section.(3)  When any order is made under this section by an officermentioned  in sub-section (2) he shall forthwith report	 thefact  to  the State Government to which	 he  is	 subordinatetogether  with the grounds on which the order has been	madeand such other particulars as in his opinion have a  bearingon the matter, and no such order made after the commencementof  the Preventive Detention (Second Amendment)	 Act,  1952,shall  remain in force for more than twelve days  after	 themaking	thereof unless in the meantime it has been  approvedby the State Government.648(4)  Where  any	 order	is made or  approved  by  the  StateGovernment  under this section, the State Government  shall,as soon as may be, report the fact to the Central Governmenttogether  with the grounds on which the order has been	madeand  such -other particulars as in the opinion of the  StateGovernment have bearing on the necessity for the order".Section 7 (1) "Where a person is detained in pursuance of  adetention  order, the authority making the order  shall,  assoon  as may be, but not later than five days from the	dateof  detention  communicate to him the grounds on  which	 theorder  has  been  made, and shall afford  him  the  earliestopportunity of making a representation against the order  tothe appropriate Government.(2)  Nothing in sub-section (1) shall require the  authorityto  disclose  facts  which it considers to  be	against	 thepublic interest to disclose".On  these sections, the argument of Mr. Chatterjee  for	 thepetitioners  is	 that section 3 (3) requires  that  when  anorder  of  detention  is  made by  one	of  the	 authoritiesmentioned in section 3(2)-in this case it was so made-	thatauthority  should  forthwith report the fact  to  the  StateGovernment together with the grounds on which the order	 wasmade;  that this provision is clearly intended to  safeguardthe  rights  of the detenu, as it is on a  consideration  ofthese  grounds that the Government has to decide whether  itwill  approve of the order or not;, that when therefore	 thegrounds had not been made available to the State  Governmentbefore	they had approved of the order, as happened  in	 thepresent	 case, there was a clear violation of the  procedureprescribed  by	the statute, and that the  detention  becameillegal.Now,  it is clear from the affidavit filed on behalf of	 therespondent  that when the District Magistrate sent a  reportunder  section	3(3)  on 28th January 1956, he	did  send  areport not merely of the fact of the making of the order  ofdetention,  but also of the materials on which he  had	madethe  order.   The contention of the petitioner is  that	 thegrounds which649were  formulated  on 30th January 1956 and  communicated  tothem  on 31st January 1956 should also have been sent  alongwith the report.  The question is whether what the  DistrictMagistrate   did   was	sufficient   compliance	  with	 therequirements of section 3 (3), and that will depend upon theinterpretation	to be put upon the words "grounds  on  whichthe  order  has	 been  made"  occurring	 in  that   section.Construing  these words in their natural and ordinary  sensethey would include any information or material on which	 theorder  was based.  The Oxford Concise Dictionary  gives	 thefollowing meanings to the word "ground": 'Base,	 foundation,motive, valid reason'.	On this definition, the materials onwhich  the District Magistrate considered that an  order  ofdetention  should  be made could properly  be  described  asgrounds	 therefor.   But it is contended by  Mr.  Chatterjeethat  the  expression "grounds on which the order  has	beenmade" occurring in section 3(3) is, word for word, the	sameas  in section 7, that the same expression occurring in	 thesame  statute must receive the same construction, that	whatsection	 3  requires is that on the making of an  order	 fordetention,  the	 authority is to formulate the	grounds	 forthat order, and send the same to the State Government  undersection	 3(3)  and to the detenu under section 7,  and	thattherefore it was not sufficient merely to send to the  StateGovernment a report of the materials on which the order	 wasmade.	Reliance  was  placed on the  following	 passage  inMaxwell's  Inter predation of Statutes, 10th  Edition,	page522:"it  is, at all events, reasonable to presume that the	samemeaning	 is  implied by the use of the	same  expression  inevery part of an Act".The rule of construction contended for by the petitioners iswell-settled, but that is only one element in deciding	whatthe true import of the enactment. is) to ascertain which  itis  necessary  to  have regard to  the	purpose	 behind	 theparticular  provision and its setting in the scheme  of	 thestatute.   "The	 presumption", says Craies, "that  the	samewords  are used in the same meaning is however very  slight,and650it  is	proper	'if sufficient reason can  be  assigned,  toconstrue  a word in one part of an Act in a different  sensefrom  that  which  it bears in another	part  of  an  Act"'.(Statute Law, 5th Edition, page 159).  And Maxwell, on whosestatement of the law the petitioners rely, observes  furtheron:"But the presumption is not of much weight.  The same  word.may  be	 used in different senses in the same  statute,	 andeven in the same section". (Interpretation of Statutes, page322).Examining  the two provisions in their context, it  will  beseen that section 3(1) confers on the Central Government andthe  State  Government	the  power  to	pass  an  order	  ofdetention,  when  the grounds mentioned in  that  sub-clauseexist.	 When  an order is made under  this  provision,	 theright of the detenu under section 7 is to be informed of thegrounds	 of  detention, as soon as may be, and	that  is  toenable	him  to make a representation  against	that  order,which is a fundamental right guaranteed under article 22(5).Coming next to section 3(2), it provides for the power whichis  conferred  on the State Government	under  section	3(1)being exercised by certain authorities with reference to thematters	 specified therein.  This being a delegation of	 thepower conferred on the State Government under section  3(1),with  a	 view to ensure that the delegate  acts	 within	 hisauthority  and	fairly	and  properly  and  that  the  Stateexercises  due	and effective control and  supervision	overhim, section 3(3) enacts a special procedure to be  observedwhen  action  is taken under section  3(2).   The  authoritymaking the order under section 3(2) is accordingly  requiredto report the fact of the order forthwith to the State alongwith the grounds therefor, and if the State does not approveof  the	 order within twelve days, it  is  automatically  tolapse.	These provisions are intended to regulate the courseof   business	between	 the  State  Government	  and,	 theauthorities  subordinate  to it exercising its	power  understatutory delegation and their scope is altogether differentfrom  that  of section 7 which deals with the right  of	 thedetenue as against the State651Government  and' its subordinate authorities.  Section	3(3)requires  the authority to communicate the, grounds  of	 itsorder  to  the State Government, so that  the  latter  mightsatisfy	  itself  whether  detention  should  be   approved.Section	 7 requires the statement of grounds to be  sent  tothe detenu, so that he might, make a representation  againstthe order.  The purpose of 'the two sections is so differentthat it cannot, be presumed that the expression "the groundson  which the order has been made" is used in section'	3(3)in the same sense 'Which it bears in section 7.That  the legislature could not have contemplated  that	 thegrounds mentioned in section 3(3) should be, identical	withthose  referred to in section 7 could also be seen from	 thefact  that  whereas  under section 7(2) it is  open  to	 theauthority  not	to  disclose  to  the  detenu  facts  if  itconsiders  that it would be against public interests  so  todo,  it	 is these facts that will figure  prominently  in  areport by the subordinate authority to the State  Governmentunder section 3(3),and form the basis for approval.  If	 thegrounds which are furnished under section 3(3) could containmatters	 which need not be communicated to the detenu  undersection	 7, the expression "grounds on which the  order	 hasbeen  made"  cannot  bear  the	same  meaning  in  both	 thesections.There is also another reason in support of this	 conclusion.When  the authority mentioned in section 3(2) decides, on  aconsideration  of  the materials placed before	it,  to	 actunder  that section and orders detention, it is required  bysection 3(3) to, report that fact with the grounds thereforeto the State Government forthwith.  But under section 7, theduty  of the authority is to communicate the grounds to	 thedetenu,	 as soon as may be.  Now, it has been held  that  asthe  object  of	 this provision is to  give  the  detenu  anopportunity to make a representation against the order,	 thegrounds must be sufficiently definite and detailed to enablehim to do so.  It is obvious that the communication that hasto  be served on the detenu under section 7 of the Act is  aformal	document setting out the grounds for the  order	 andthe652Particulars  in	 support  thereof, subject,  of	 course,  tosection 7(2); whereas the report to the State under  section3(3)  is  a  less  formal  document  in	 the  nature  of   aconfidential  inter-departmental communication, which is  tocontain	 the  particulars on which the order was  made.	  Itcould  not have been intended that the contents of  the	 twocommunications	which are so Dissimilar in their  scope	 andintendment should be identical.Mr.  N.	 C. Chatterjee also cited  certain  observations  ofKania C.J. in State of Bombay v. Atma Ram Sridhar  Vaidya(1)as  supporting	his contention that the	 grounds  which	 arefurnished  to  the detenu must have been  before  the  StateGovernment  before  it	approves of  the  order.   Said	 thelearned Chief Justice:"It  is	 obvious that the grounds for making  the  order  asmentioned  above,  are the grounds on  which  the  detainingauthority  was satisfied that it was necessary to  make	 theorder.	 These grounds therefore must be in  existence	whenthe order is made".But  the grounds referred to in the above passages  are	 thereasons for making the order, not the formal expressions  inwhich  they are. embodied, and that will be clear  from	 thefollowing observation further on:"By  their very nature the grounds are conclusions of  factsand not a complete detailed recital of all the facts".Our  conclusion	 is  that the failure on  the  part  of	 theDistrict  Magistrate of Thana to send along with his  reportunder  section 3(3), the very grounds which he	subsequentlycommunicated  to the detenu under section 7 is not a  breachof  the	 requirements of that sub-section, and that  it	 wassufficiently complied with when he reported the materials onwhich he made the order.The  second  contention of the petitioners also	 fails,	 andthese applications must therefore be dismissed.(1) [1951] S.C.R. 167, 178.653