PETITIONER:SHRI VIRINDAR KUMAR SATYAWADI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB.DATE OF JUDGMENT:22/11/1955BENCH:ACT:Representation	of the People Act, (XLIII of 1951), ss.	 33,36-Criminal Procedure Code (V of 1898), ss. 195(1)(b),	476,476-  B	 -  Returning Officer-Deciding on  the	validity  orotherwise  of nomination paper under ss. 33, 36 of the	Act-Whether a court within the meaning of ss. 195(1)(b), 476 and476-B of the Code of Criminal Procedure.HEADNOTE:Held that a Returning Officer acting under se. 33 and 36  ofthe  Representation of the People Act, 1951 and deciding  onthe  validity  or otherwise of a nomination paper is  not  acourt within the meaning of ss. 195(1)(b), 476 and 476-B  ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure.Shell  Co. of Australia v. Federal Commissioner of  Taxation([1931]	 A.C.  275  at 296), B.	 v.  London  County  Council([1931]	 2 K.B. 215), Cooper v. Wilson ([1937] 2 K.B.  309),Huddart	 Parker and Co. v. Moorehead ([1908] 8 C.L.R.  330),Rola Co. v. The Commonwealth ([1944] 69 C.L.R. 185),  BharatBank  Ltd. v. Employees of Bharat Bank Ltd.  ([1950]  S.C.R.459),  Mehar  Singh  v. Emperor,  (A.I.R.  1933	 Lah.  884),Emperor v. Nanak Chand (A I.R. 1943 Lah. 208), Har Prasad v.Emperor,  (A.I.R.  1947	 All. 139) and	Channu	Lal  v.	 Rex([1950] 51 Cr.	L.J. 199), referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 62  of1954.Appeal	by special leave from the Judgment and	0rder  datedthe  10th  June 1953 of the Punjab High Court  at  Simla  inCriminal Revision No. 86 of 1953 arising out of the Judgmentand  Order  dated  the	7th January 1953  of  the  Court  ofSessions Judge, Karnal in Criminal Appeal No. 355 of 1952.N.   C.	 Chatterjee, (Vir Sen Sawhney and  Rajinder  Narain,with him) for the appellant.Gopal Singh and P. G. Gokhale, for the respondent.10141955.  November 24.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AYYAR  J.-The  appellant was  a  candidate	 forelection to the House of the People from the Karnal ReservedConstituency during the last General Elections.	 The provisoto  section  33(3) of the Representation of the	 People	 Act(XLIII of 1951), omitting what is not material, enacts "thatin  a  constituency  where  any seat  is  reserved  for	 theScheduled  Castes,  no	candidate  shall  be  deemed  to  bequalified  to be chosen to fill that seat unless  his  nomi-nation paper is accompanied by a declaration verified in theprescribed  manner  that the candidate is a  member  of	 theScheduled Castes for which the seat has been so reserved andthe declaration specifies the particular caste of which	 thecandidate is a member and also the area in relation to whichsuch  caste is one of the Scheduled Castes". Rule 6  of	 theElection Rules provides that the declaration referred to  inthe above proviso shall be verified by the candidate on oathor  solemn  affirmation before a  Magistrate.	Schedule  Ifcontains  the form of nomination paper to be used, with	 theterms  in  which  the  declaration is  to  be  made  by	 thecandidate and verified by the Magistrate.  On 5-11-1951	 theappellant signed two nomination papers, each containing	 thefollowing declaration:"I  hereby declare that I am a member of the  Balmiki  Castewhich has been declared to be a Scheduled Caste in the Stateof Punjab".The  Balmiki  Caste is one of the castes declared  to  be  aScheduled  Caste under the "Constitution (Scheduled  Castes)Order,	1950".	 The above declaration was  made  on  solemnaffirmation  before the First Class Magistrate, Karnal,	 andthe nomination paper& with the above declaration were  filedbefore	 the  District	Magistrate,  Karnal,  who  was	 thereturning  officer.   One  Jai Ram Sarup, a  member  of	 theChamar caste, which is one of the Scheduled Castes, was alsoa  candidate for the seat, and he raised the objection	thatthe  appellant was not a Balmiki by caste, and that  he	 wastherefore  not	qualified to stand for election to  the	 re-served Constituency.  Acting on the declaration afore-1015said,  the  returning officer overruled the  objection,	 andaccepted the nomination paper of the appellant as valid.  Atthe polling, the appellant got the majority of votes, and on6-3-1952 he was declared duly elected.On  27-8-1952  Jai Ram Sarup filed the	application  out  ofwhich the present appeal arises, under sections 476 and	 195of  the	 Code  of Criminal  Procedure  before  the  DistrictMagistrate,  who  functioned as the returning  officer.	  Hetherein	 alleged that the declaration made by the  appellantthat  he belonged to the Balmiki caste was false,  that,  infact,  be  was	born  a Muslim and  had	 been  converted  toHinduism,  and that therefore "in the interests of  justice"and  "for  safeguarding	 the  interests	 of  the   ScheduledCastes",  proceedings should be taken for  his	prosecution.In his counter-affidavit the appellant stated:"I  am not a Muhammadan by birth.  On the other hand, I	 wasborn in Balmiki Hindu family.  I am a Hindu".The  District Magistrate held an enquiry in which one  PrithSingh Azad, President of the Depressed Classes, Delhi,	gaveevidence  that	the appellant was a Muslim of  the  name  ofKhaliq Sadiq, that in 1938 he applied to the Suddhi Sabha tobe converted to Hinduism, that be was so converted, and thatthereafter he came to be known as Virindar Kumar.  In cross-examination,  he  stated  that the  appellant  bad  admittedbefore him that he was a Muslim by birth.  He added that  hebad  two Muslim wives living at the time of the	 conversion.The  applicant,	 Jai Ram Sarup, also  produced	ten  lettersstated to be in the handwriting of the appellant in proof ofthe  above  facts.  On 17-9-1952 the  Magistrate  passed  anorder  that there was a prima facie case for taking  action,and on 29-9-1952 he filed a complaint before the First ClassMagistrate,  Karnal,  charging the appellant  with  offencesunder sections 181, 182 and 193 of the Indian Penal Code.Against this order, the appellant preferred an appeal to theCourt of the Sessions Judge, Karnal, who dismissed the	sameon  the ground that the returning officer was not a  Court,,that the proceedings before1016him did	  not fall under section 476, and that there fore noappeal	lay  under section 476-B.  The	appellant  took	 thematter	in revision before the High Court, Punjab, and	thatwas heard by Harnam Singh, J., who held, differing from	 theSessions Judge, that the returning officer was a Court,	 andthat his order was therefore appealable.  He, however,	heldthat  on the merits there was no case for interference,	 andaccordingly  dismissed	the revision.  It  is  against	thisorder that the present appeal by special leave is directed.On behalf of the appellant Mr. N. C. Chatterjee argues	thathaving	held  that the order of the  returning	officer	 wasappealable,  the  learned Judge ought to have  remanded	 thecase  for hearing by the Sessions Judge on the	merits,	 andthat  his  own	disposal  of  the  matter  was	summary	 andperfunctory.   The  contention of Mr. Gopal  Singh  for	 therespondent  is that the view of the Sessions Judge that	 thereturning  officer  was not a court and that his  order	 wasnot,  therefore, appealable was correct', and  that  furtherthe order of the High Court in revision declining to  inter-fere  on  the  merits was not liable  to  be  questioned  inspecial appeal in this Court.The  first question that arises for our decision is  whetherthe order of the District Magistrate passed on 17-9-1952  asreturning   officer  is	 open  to  appeal.   The   statutoryprovisions  bearing on this point are sections 195, 476	 and476-B of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  Section  195(1)(a)provides that no court shall take cognizance of any  offencepunishable  under  sections 172 to 188 of the  Indian  PenalCode  except  on  the complaint in  writing  of	 the  publicofficer	 concerned  or of his superior.	  Section  195(1)(b)enacts	that no Court shall take cognizance of the  offencesmentioned therein, where such offence is committed in, or inrelation  to,  any proceeding in any Court,  except  on	 thecomplaint in writing of such Court or a Court to which it issubordinate.  The offence under section 193 is one of  thosementioned  in section 195 (1) (b).  Section  476  prescribesthe procedure to be followed where a Court is moved to lay acomplaint, and that applies1017only to offences mentioned in sections 195(1) (b) and 195(1)(c)  and  not  to those mentioned  in  section	195(1)	(a).Section	 476-B provides for an appeal from an  order  passedunder section 476 to the appropriate Court.  The result thenis  that if the complaint relates to offences  mentioned  insections  195(1)  (b)  and 195(1) (c), an  appeal  would  becompetent,  but not if it relates to offences  mentioned  insection 195(1) (a).  Now, the order of the Magistrate  dated17-9-1952  directs that the appellant should  be  prosecutedfor  offences under sections 181, 182 and 193.	There is  nodispute	 that the order in so far as it relates to  offencesunder  sections 181 and 182 is not appealable, as they	falldirectly under section 195(1) (a).  The controversy is	onlyas regards the charge under section 193.  Section 193  makesit  an	offence to give false evidence whether it  be  in  ajudicial  proceeding  or not, and it likewise  makes  it  anoffence	 to fabricate false evidence for use in	 a  judicialproceeding or elsewhere.  If the offence is not committed ina  judicial  proceeding, then it will fall  outside  section195(1)(b), which applies only when it is committed in or  inrelation  to  a	 proceeding  in	 Court,	 and  there  is	  inconsequence  no	 bar to a complaint being  made	 in  respectthereof unaffected by the restrictions contained in  section195(1)	(b).   But  if	the offence  under  section  193  iscommitted  in or in relation to a proceeding in Court,	thenit  will  fall	under section 195 (1)  (b),  and  the  orderdirecting  prosecution under section 476 will be  appealableunder  section 476-B.  The point for decision  therefore  iswhether the returning officer in deciding on the validity ofa  nomination paper under section 36 of the Act can be	heldto act as a Court.  The question thus raised does not appearto  be	covered by authority, and has to be decided  on	 thetrue character of the functions of the returning officer andthe nature and the extent of his powers."There	has  been  much	 difference of	opinion	 as  to	 theprecise)  character  of the office of a	 returning  officer,viz.,  as  to  whether	he  is	a  judicial  or	 ministerialofficer",  says	 Parker	 on  Election  Agent  and  ReturningOfficer, Fifth Edition, page 30.  The true1018view,  according  to  him,  is	that  he  partakes  of	bothcharacters, and that in determining objections to nominationpapers,	 he  is a judicial officer.  That is also  the	viewtaken in Indian decisions.  But before we can hold that	 theproceedings  before  a returning officer  resulting  in	 theacceptance  or rejection of a nomination paper	fall  withinsection 195(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it mustbe shown not merely that they are judicial in character	 butthat further he is acting as a Court in respect thereof.  Itis a familiar feature of modern legislation to set up bodiesand  tribunals,	 and  entrust to -them work  of	 a  judicialcharacter, but they are not Courts in the accepted sense  ofthat  term,  though they may possess, as  observed  by	LordSankey,	 L.C.  in  Shell Company  of  Australia	 v.  FederalCommissioner  of  Taxation(1), some of the  trappings  of  aCourt.	  The  distinction  between  Courts  and   tribunalsexercising  quasi-judicial  functions is  well	established,though	whether	 an authority constituted  by  a  particularenactment falls within one category or the other may, on theprovisions of that enactment, be open to argument.There  has  been considerable discussion in  the  Courts  inEngland	  and  Australia  as  to  what	are  the   essentialcharacteristics of a Court as distinguished from a  tribunalexercising quasi-judicial functions.  Vide Shell Company  ofAustralia  v.  Federal Commissioner of	Taxation(1),  R.  v.London	County	Council(2),  Cooper  v.	 Wilson(3),  HuddartParker	and  Co.  v.  Moorehead(4),  and  Rola	Co.  v.	 TheCommonwealth(5).  In this Court, the question was consideredin  some fulness in Bharat Bank Ltd. v. Employees of  BharatBank Ltd.(6). It is unnecessary to traverse the same  groundonce   again.	 It  may  be  stated   broadly	 that	whatdistinguishes a Court from a quasi-judicial tribunal is thatit  is charged with a duty to decide disputes in a  judicialmanner	and  declare the rights of parties in  a  definitivejudgment.  To decide in a judicial manner involves that	 theparties are entitled as(1)  [1931] A.C. 275,296.(3)  [1937] 2 K.B. 309.(5)  [1944] 69 C.L.R. 185.(2)  [1931] 2 K.B. 215.(4)  [1908] 8 C.L.R. 330.(6)  [1950] S.C.R. 459.1019a matter of right to be heard in support of their claim	 andto  adduce evidence in proof of it.  And it also imports  anobligation on the part of the authority to decide the matteron a consideration of the evidence adduced and in accordancewith law.  When a question therefore arises as to whether anauthority created by an Act is a Court as distinguished froma quasi-judicial tribunal, what has to be decided is whetherhaving regard to the provisions of the Act it possesses	 allthe attributes of a Court.We  have  now to decide whether in view	 of  the  principlesabove  stated and the functions and powers entrusted to	 thereturning  officer  under  the	Act, be	 is  a	court.	 Thestatutory  provision bearing on this matter is	section	 36.Under  section 36(2), the returning officer has	 to  examinethe nomination paper and decide all objections which may  bemade  thereto.	 This  power  is  undoubtedly  judicial	  incharacter.   But in exercising this power, he is  authorisedto  come to a decision "after such summary enquiry, if	any,as  he thinks necessary".  That means that the parties	haveno  right  to insist on producing evidence  which  they	 maydesire	to  adduce in support of their case.   There  is  nomachinery  provided  for  summoning  of	 witnesses,  or	  ofcompelling  production	of  documents in  an  enquiry  undersection	 36.  The returning officer is entitled to  act	 suomotu  in the matter.  When one compares this procedure	withthat  prescribed  for  trial of election  petitions  by	 theElection  Tribunal under sections 90 and 92 of the Act,	 thedifference  between  the  two  becomes	marked.	  While	 theproceedings before the Election Tribunal approximate in	 allessential  matters  to	proceedings  in	 civil	courts,	 theproceedings  under section 36 present a	 different  picture.There  is no lis, in which persons with opposing claims	 areentitled  to  have their rights adjudicated  in	 a  judicialmanner, but an enquiry such as is usually conducted by an adhoc  tribunal  entrusted with a	 quasi-judicial	 power.	  Inother  words, the function of the returning  officer  actingunder section 36 is judicial in character, but he is not  toact  judicially in discharging it.  We are of  opinion	thatthe returning officer deciding on1291020the  validity of a nomination paper is not a Court  for	 thepurpose	 of  section  195 (1) (b) of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure, and the result is that even as regards the chargeunder  section	193,  the order of the	Magistrate  was	 notappealable,  as	 the  offence was not  committed  in  or  inrelation  to any proceeding in a Court.	 In this  view,	 thelearned Sessions Judge was right in dismissing the appeal asincompetent, and the question argued by Mr. N. C. Chatterjeethat  the  learned  Judge of the High Court  ought  to	haveremanded  the case for hearing by the Sessions Judge on	 themerits does not arise.It was next argued for the appellant that as the applicationfor initiating prosecution under section 193 was made  undersection 476 on the assumption that the returning officer wasa court, the order passed thereon must, in the view that  hewas  not a Court, be quashed as without	 jurisdiction.	 Butthen, it should be noted that the application was  presentedunder  section	195 also, and it was necessary to  move	 thereturning officer under section 195(1)(a) with reference  tothe offences under sections 181 and 182, and there could  beno  question of quashing the order as without  jurisdiction.Even as regards section 193, the position is this: It has nodoubt  been  held  that	 section 476 must  be  taken  to  beexhaustive  of	all the powers of a Court as such to  Jay  acomplaint,  and that a complaint filed by it otherwise	thanunder that section should not be entertained.  But there  isabundant  authority that section 476 does not  preclude	 theofficer	 presiding  over a Court from himself  preferring  acomplaint,  and	 that the jurisdiction.	 of  the  Magistratebefore	whom the complaint is laid to try it like any  othercomplaint  is  not taken away by that section.	 Vide  MeherSingh v. Emperor(1) , Emperor v. Nanak Chand(2), Har  Prasadv.  Emperor(3) and Channu Lal v. Rex(4).  There is  thus  nolegal  impediment to a returning officer filing a  complaintunder  sections 181 and 182 as provided in section  195	 (1)(a) and charging the accused therein with also an offence(1)  A.I.R. 1933 Lah. 884.(3)  A.I.R. 1947 All. 139.(2)  A.I.R. 1943 Lah. 208.(4)  [1950] 51 Cr.  L.J. 199.1021under  section	193.   In  this	 connection,  it  should  bementioned  that	 the appellant himself	took  the  objectionbefore the Magistrate that qua returning officer he was	 nota  Court  and that the proceedings under  section  476	wereincompetent, and that that was overruled on the ground	thatit was an enabling section.  There is, therefore, no  groundfor  holding  that  the order dated  17-9-1952	was  withoutjurisdiction.It  was	 finally contended that the Magistrate was  under  amisapprehension	 in stating that the appellant had  declaredthat  he  was  born a Balmiki, whereas,	 in  fact,  he	onlydeclared  that	he was a Balmiki by caste.  But it  was	 theappellant himself who pleaded in his counter-affidavit	thathe  was	 not a Muslim by birth, and was born  in  a  BalmikiHindu family, and the observation of the Magistrate has	 ob-vious  reference  to  what was pleaded	and  argued  by	 theappellant.   And it should also be noted that  no  objectionwas  taken either in the grounds of appeal to  the  SessionsCourt or in revision to the High Court with reference to theabove remark.  Moreover, the charge as laid in the complaintis  that the declaration of the appellant in the  nominationpaper that he "was a member of the Balmiki caste" was false.There is accordingly no substance in this contention.It must be emphasised that in the view that the order of theMagistrate  dated  17-9-1952 was final,	 this  appeal  beingreally directed against that order there must be exceptionalgrounds	 before we can interfere with it in special  appeal,and  none  such has been established.  On  the	other  hand,whether action should be taken under section 195 is a matterprimarily for the Court which hears the application, and itsdiscretion  is not to be lightly interfered with in  appeal,even  when  that  is competent.	 But  where,  as  here,	 thelegislature   does  not	 provide  for  an  appeal,   it	  ispreposterous  on  the part of the appellant to	invite	thisCourt to interfere in special appeal.This appeal is accordingly dismissed.1022