PETITIONER:SARDAR KAPUR SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:15/12/1959BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  493		  1960 SCR  (2) 569 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1245	 (20) R	    1963 SC 779	 (7) F	    1964 SC 295	 (2,3,7,9,20,22,24,51)ACT:Public Servant, Dismissal of--Member of Indian Civil Service-Enquiry  Commissioner	a  appointed  by  State	 Government-Validity    -'Government',    meaning	 of-Procedure,	  ifdiscriminatory	President,  if	must  hear  evidence  beforePassing	 order-Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850 (37  of1850),	S.  2, Civil Services (Classification,	Control	 andAppeal) Rules, r. 55-Constitution of India, Arts. 511, 314.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was  a member of the  Indian  Civil  Serviceposted in the Punjab.  The East Punjab Government  suspendedhim and appointed the Chief justice of the East Punjab	HighCourt  as  Enquiry Commissioner under  the  Public  Servants(Inquiries)  Act,  1850	 (37 Of 1850), to  hold	 an  enquiryagainst	 him  on  diverse charges  of  misappropriation	 andmisdemeanour framed against him.  After a protracted enquiryon  evidence, the Commissioner found him guilty on  most  ofthe  charges and submitted his report to the  Government  ofthe  East Punjab.  The appellant was supplied a copy of	 thereport by the Secretary to the Government of India, Ministryof   Home   Affairs,  and  informed  that   on	 a   carefulconsideration of the report and the findings of the  EnquiryCommissioner,  the  President had provisionally	 decided  todismiss	 the  appellant from service and  desired  that	 theappellant  should have an opportunity of showing  cause	 andmaking	a representation against the proposed  action.	 Theappellant   submitted  a  lengthy   representation.    Afterconsultation  with the Union Public Service Commission,	 thePresident   dismissed  the  appellant  from   service	withimmediate effect.  The appellant challenged the	 President'sorder  under  Art 226 of the Constitution.  The	 High  Courtdismissed  his	petition and, on a  certificate	 of  fitnessgranted	 by it, the appellant filed the present appeal.	  Itwas  contended, inter alia, on his behalf that (i) the	EastPunjab Government had no power to direct the enquiry againstthe  appellant	since he was a member of  the  Indian  CivilService	 and  not employed under that  Government,  (2)	 theenquiry	 could	only  -be  held under r.  55  of  the  CivilServices (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules and	 notthe  Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 185o and (3) that	 theenquiry held under that Act was discriminatory and infringedArt. 14 Of the Constitution.Held,  that the contentions were without substance and	mustfail.The  word  "  Government " in s. 2 of  the  Public  Servants(Inquiries)  Act,  1850, means, as defined by S. 23  of	 theAct, the73570Central	 Government  in the case of persons  employed  underthat  Government  and the State Government in  the  case  ofpersons	 employed under the State Government.  A  member  ofthe Civil  service of the Union undoubtedly holds his officeduring	the  pleasure  of the President, but  the  power  ofdismissal  cannot be   equated with the authority to  directan  enquiry  under  the	 Act and there	is  nothing  in	 theConstitution which takes away the authority of the State  todirect an enquiry under S. 2 of the Act.  There was no doubtthat appellant who was posted in the Punjab, was at the dateof  the enquiry employed under the East	 Punjab	 Government.Consequently,  its  order directing an enquiry	against	 himunder the Act was perfectly valid in law.There  is no foundation for the contention that the  membersof  the Indian Civil Service are beyond the purview  of	 theAct which is meant to regulate enquiries into the conduct ofsuperior  public  servants  not removable  except  with	 thesanction of the Government.  The members of the lndian CivilService,whether	 employed under the Union or the State,	 arenot employees of the President ; and they are not liable  tobe dismissed from their appointment without the sanction  ofthe Government.Rule  55 of the Civil Services (Classification, Control	 andAppeal)	 Rules	contemplates an enquiry,  either  under	 theprocedure  prescribed  by the Public  Servants	(Inquiries),Act,  1850, or the procedure prescribed by it.	It does	 notrequire	 that once an enquiry is held under the	 Act,  theremust be another under it before a member of the Indian CivilService	  can  be  dismissed.	The  expression	 "   withoutprejudice " in the opening clause of the rule does not	mean'notwithstanding'.S.   A.	 Venkataraman v. The Union of India,  [1954]  S.C.R.1150, referred to.It  is not correct to say that an enquiry under the  Act  isdiscriminatory	and infringes Art. 14 of  the  Constitution.While  guaranteeing  to	 all public  servants  a  reasonableenquiry into their conduct under Art- 311 (2), as  explainedby  this Court in Khem Chand v. The Union of  India,  [1958]S.C.R. 1080, the Constitution does not guarantee an  enquiryunder  any  specific statutory provision  or  administrativerules.	 Article  314 of the Constitution no  doubt  furtherguarantees  to the members of the Indian Civil	Service	 thesame rights- in regard to disciplinary actions as they	wereentitled  to  immediately  before the  commencement  of	 theConstitution,  which must mean an enquiry either  under	 thePublic	Servants  (Inquiries)  Act or r.  55  of  the  CivilServices (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, then inoperation,  the primary constitutional guarantee to them  isone  of a reasonable enquiry as mentioned above.  There	 is,therefore, no discrimination simply because the one and	 notthe  other procedure is adopted unless it is shown  that  itoperated to the prejudice of the public servant.Khem  Chand  v.	 The Union of  India,  [1958]  S.C.R.  1080,referred to,571Although  the  procedure prescribed by the  Public  Servants(Inquiries) Act, 1850 is more detailed than that  prescribedby  r.	55,  it is in substance	 not  materially  different.Under either form of enquiry, notice has to be given of	 thecharges,  the materials on which the charge is sought to  besustained have to be furnished and, if the public servant sodesires,  he can demand an oral hearing for the	 examinationof witnesses.  It is not, therefore, correct to contend thatprovisions  such as those of ss' 11 and 19 of the  Act	madethe  procedure laid down by it discriminatory.- Although  r.55  lays down a somewhat more elastic procedure,  provisionssimilar to those contained in the two sections are  implicitin r. 55.An  opportunity	 of making an oral representation is  not  anecessary  postulate  of  an opportunity  of  showing  causewithin	the meaning of Art. 311 Of the Constitution and	 thePresident of India is 'not bound under that Article to	hearevidence   of  witnesses  before  he  passes  an  order	  ofdismissal.  That Article does not contemplate that before anorder of punishment can be passed against a public  servant,although  a full and fair enquiry has already  taken  place,there  must  be	 a  further enquiry  at	 which	evidence  ofwitnesses viva voce is recorded.The High Commissioner of India and Another v. 1. M. Lal,  75I.A. 225 and Khem Chand v. The Union of India, [1958] S.C.R.1080, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION :Civil Appeal No. 230 of 1959.Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 7, 1955, ofthe  Punjab  High Court, in Civil Writ Petition No.  322  of1953.I.   M.	 Lal, K. S. Chawla and K. R. Krishnaswami,  for	 theappellant.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India, N.   S.Bindra,	 R.  H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for  the	respondents.1959. December 15.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySHAH J.-Sardar Kapur Singh (who will hereinafter be referredto as the appellant) was admitted by the Secretary of  Statefor  India in Council to the Indian Civil Service  upon	 theresult	of a competitive examination held at Delhi in  1931.After  a  period  of training in  the  United  Kingdom,	 theappellant returned to India in November, 1933 and was postedas Assistant572Commissioner,  Ferozepore  in  the Province  of	 Punjab.  Heserved	in  the Province in various capacities	between	 theyears 1933 and 1947.  In July, 1947, he was posted as DeputyCommissioner at Dharamsala  India and continued to bold thatoffice	till February 11, 1948, when he was  transferred  toHoshiarpur at which place he continued to hold the office ofDeputy	Commissioner till a few days before April 14,  1949.On  April 13, 1949, the appellant was served with  an  orderpassed by the Government of East Punjab suspending him	fromservice.   On  May  5,	1950,  the  appellant  submitted   arepresentation to the President of India protesting  againstthe  action of the Government of East Punjab suspending	 himfrom service and praying that he be removed from the controlof the Punjab Government and that if any disciplinary actionwas  intended to be taken against him, it be  taken  outsidethe   Province	of  Punjab  by	persons	 appointed  by	 theGovernment  Of	India  and  in an  atmosphere  "  free	fromprejudice and hostility ". The Government of East Punjab  onMay  18, 1950, appointed Mr. Eric Weston, Chief	 Justice  ofthe East Punjab High Court as Enquiry Commissioner under thePublic Servants (Inquiries) Act, XXXVII of 1850, to bold  anenquiry against the appellant on twelve articles of charges.Notice	was  issued to the appellant of those  charges.	  OnNovember   5,  1950,  at  the  suggestion  of  the   EnquiryCommissioner, the Government of East Punjab withdrew chargesNos.  11  and 12 and the Enquiry Commissioner  proceeded  tohold  the  enquiry on the remaining  ten  charges.   Charges1,2,7,8,9 and 10 related to misappropriation of diverse sumsof  money  received by or entrusted to	the  appellant,	 forwhich he failed to account.  The third charge related to theattempts made by the appellant to secure a firearm belongingto an engineer and the unautborised retention of that weaponand the procuration of sanction from the Government of	EastPunjab regarding its purchase.	The fourth charge related tothe  granting of sanction under the Alienation of  Land	 Actfor  sale  of a plot of land by an agriculturist to  a	non-agriculturist, the appellant being the beneficiary under the573transaction  of	 sale,	and  to the  abuse  by	him  of	 hisauthority  as  Deputy  Commissioner  in	 getting  that	landtransferred  to his name, without awaiting the	 sanction ofthe  Government.  The fifth charge related to the  grant  toSardar Raghbir Singh of a Government contract for the supplyof  fire-wood'	without inviting tenders or  quotations,  atrates  unreasonably  high and to the acceptance of  wet	 andinferior  wood	which  when  dried  weighed  only  half	 thequantity purchased, entailing thereby a loss of Rs.,  30,000to  the	 State.	 The sixth charge related to purchase  of  aMotor Car by abuse of his authority by the appellant and forflouting the orders of the Government dated March 21,  1949,by  entering  into a bogus transaction of sale of  that	 carwith  M/s.   Massand  Motors  and  for	deciding  an  appealconcerning that car in which he was personally interested.Charges	 Nos.	1 to 4 and 7 to 10 related to  the  officialconduct	 of  the  appellant when he  was  posted  as  DeputyCommissioner at Dharamsala and charges Nos. 5 and 6  relatedto  the period when he was posted as Deputy Commissioner  atHoshiarpur.The Enquiry Commissioner heard the evidence on behalf of theState  at  Dharamsala between July 31 and August  21,  1950.Enquiry	 proceedings  were then resumed on  September  5  atSimla  and were continued till October 23 on which date	 theevidence on behalf of the State was closed.  On October	 27,the appellant filed a list of defence witnesses.  A detailedwritten	 statement  was filed by the appellant and  he	gaveevidence  on  oath between November 28 and December  5.	 Thedefence witnesses were then examined between December 5	 andDecember 28.  It appears that the appellant did not, at thatstage  desire  to  examine  any	 more  witnesses,  and	 theappellant's  case was treated as closed on December 28.	  Onand  after  December 28, 1950, the appellant  filed  severalapplications and affidavits for obtaining certain directionsfrom the Enquiry Commissioner and for eliciting	 informationfrom   the   State.   On  January  2,  1951,   the   EnquiryCommissioner   adjourned  the  proceeding  for	the   wintervacation.  The proceedings were resumed574on  March 12, 1951, and after recording formal	evidence  oftwo  witnesses,	 S. Gurbachan Singh, Sub-Inspector  and	 Ch.Mangal	Singh, Sub-Inspector about the state-ments  made  bycertain	    witnesses	 for	the    defence	  in	 thecourse	of  the investigation which it	was  submitted	werematerially  different  from those made	before	the  EnquiryCommissioner  and after hearing arguments, the	enquiry	 wasclosed.	 On May 14, 1951, the Enquiry Commissioner  preparedhis report.  He held that the appellant had taken the amountreferred to in charge No. 1 from the Government on the basisof  a claim of Raja Harmohinder Singh which was made at	 theappellant's  instance, that the appellant had also  receivedthe  amount  which was the subject matter of charge  No.  2,that  the  appellant admitted to have received	the  amountswhich  were the subject matter of charges Nos. 7, 9 and	 10,that the amount which was the subject matter of charge No. 8was  obtained by the appellant from the Government  under  afraudulent  claim  sanctioned  by the  appellant  with	fullknowledge  of  its  true nature	 and  that  accordingly	 theappellant had received an aggregate amount of Rs. 16,734-11-6 and that even though he had made certain disbursements  torefugees,  the	appellant  had failed  to  account  for	 thedisbursement  of  the  amount received by  him	or  anythingapproximate to that amount and therefore the charge  againstthe  appellant	for  misappropriation must  be	held  provedalthough the amount not accounted for could not be preciselyascertained.   On charges 3 and 4, the Enquiry	Commissionerdid  not record a finding against the appellant.  On  chargeNo. 6, he recorded an adverse finding against the  appellantin  so far as it related to the conduct of the appellant  indeciding an appeal in which he was personally concerned.  Heheld that the conduct of the appellant in giving a  contractto  Sardar  Raghbir Singh which was the	 subject  matter  ofcharge	No.  5 was an act of dishonest	preference  and	 theappellant  knowingly permitted the contractor to  cheat	 theGovernment  when  carrying  out	 the  contract	and  therebyconsiderable loss was occasioned to the Government for whichthe appellant was responsible.575This report was submitted to the Government of East  Punjab.On  February  11, 1952, the Secretary to the  Government  ofIndia,	Ministry  of  Home Affairs supplied a  copy  of	 thereport	to the appellant and informed him that on a  carefulconsideration  of  the	 report	 and  in  particular  of theconclusions  reached by the Enquiry Commissioner in  respectof  the	 charges framed, the President of India was  of	 theopinion that the appellant was " unsuitable to continue " inGovernment  service  and  that	the  President	 accordinglyprovisionally decided that the appellant should be dismissedfrom  Government service.  The appellant was  informed	thatbefore	the  President took action, he desired to  give	 theappellant an opportunity of showing cause against the actionproposed  to be taken and that any representation which	 theappellant may make in that connection will be considered  bythe  President	before	taking	the  proposed  action.	 Theappellant  was called upon to submit his  representation  inwriting	 within	 twenty	 one days from the  receipt  of	 theletter.	 The appellant submitted a detailed statement on May7, 1952, which runs into 321 printed pages of the record.The President consulted the Union Public Service Commission,and  by order dated July 27, 1953, dismissed  the  appellantfrom service with immediate effect.  The order passed by thePresident  was	challenged by a petition filed in  the	EastPunjab High Court for the issue of a writ under Art. 226  ofthe Constitution.  The appellant prayed that a writ quashingthe  proceeding and the report of the  Enquiry	Commissionerand  also a writ of Mandamus or any other appropriate  Writ,Direction  or  Order  commanding  the  Union  of  ,India  toreinstate  the appellant into the Indian Civil Service	fromthe  date  of  suspension  be  issued.	 By  separate,	 butconcurring judgments, Chief Justice Bhandari and Mr. JusticeKhosla of the East Punjab High Court dismissed the petition.Against the order of dismissal of the petition, this  appealhas been filed by the appellant pursuant to a certificate offitness granted by the High Court,577in  so	far  as it is material, it was	enacted	 that  everyperson	appointed  by  the Secretary of	 State	to  a  civilservice	 of the Crown in India who continued on	 and   afterthe  appointed	day  to serve under the	 Government  of	 theDominion  of India or of any Province or   part	 thereof wasentitled  to  receive  the same. conditions  of	 service  asrespects remuneration, leave and pension and the same rightsas respects disciplinary matters, or as the case may be,  asrespects the tenure of his office.  By sub-s. 2 of s. 240 ofthe  Government of India Act as amended, a person  appointedby the Secretary of State who continued in the establishmentof  the Dominion of India was not liable to be dismissed  byany  authority	subordinate to the Governor General  or	 theGovernor according as that person was serving in  connectionwith   the  affairs  of	 the  Dominion	or   the   Province.Indisputably, since India became a Republic, by Art.  310(1)of the Constitution, every person who is a member of a civilservice of the Union or of an all-India service or holds anycivil post under the Union, holds office during the pleasureof the President.  But the power to dismiss a member of	 thecivil  service of the Union or of an all-India	service	 maynot be equated with the authority conferred by statute	uponthe State under which a public servant is employed to directan enquiry into the charges of misdemeanour against him.  Bys.  2  of the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850,  it  isprovided that :"Whenever the Government shall be of opinion that there	 aregood grounds for making a formal and public inquiry into thetruth of any imputation of misbehaviour by any person in theservice of the Government not removable from his appointmentwithout	 the  sanction of the Government, it may  cause	 thesubstance  of  the  imputations to be  drawn  into  distinctarticles  of  charge,  and may order  a	 formal	 and  publicinquiry to be made into the truth thereof ",and  the expression 'Government' is defined by s. 23 of	 theAct  as	 meaning  Central  Government  in  case	 of  personsemployed under that Government and the74579of the Indian Civil Service are accordingly not liable to bedismissed from their appointment without the sanction of theGovernment  and	 are not excluded  from the  purview  of thePublic Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850.Rule  55 of the Civil Services (Classification, Control	 andAppeal) Rules provides:"Without prejudice to the provisions of the Public  Servants(Inquiries)  Act, 1850, no order 'of dismissal,	 removal  orreduction  shall be passed on a member of a  Service  (otherthan  an  order	 based	on  facts  which  have	led  to	 hisconviction in a criminal court or by a Court Martial) unlesshe  has been informed in writing of the grounds on which  itis  proposed  to  take	action, and  has  been	afforded  anadequate  opportunity of defending himself.  The grounds  onwhich it is proposed to take Action shall be reduced to	 theform  of  a  definite  charge or  charges,  which  shall  becommunicated to the person charged together with a statementof the allegations on which each charge is based and of	 anyother  circumstances  which  it is  proposed  to  take	intoconsideration  in passing orders on the case.  He  shall  berequired,  within  a reasonable time, to put  in  a  writtenstatement of his defence and to state whether he desires  tobe  heard in person.  If he so desires, or if the  authorityconcerned so direct, an oral inquiry shall be held.  At thatinquiry	 oral  evidence	 shall be heard as to  such  of	 theallegations  as	 are not admitted, and	the  person  chargedshall  be  entitled to crossexamine the witnesses,  to	giveevidence  in person and to have such witnesses called as  hemay  wish, provided that the officer conducting the  inquirymay,  for  special and sufficient reason to be	recorded  inwriting,  refuse to call a witness.  The  proceedings  shallcontain a sufficient record of the evidence and a  statementof the findings and the grounds thereof.This  rule shall not apply where the person con. cerned	 hasabsconded, or where it is for other reasons impracticable tocommunicate  with him.	All or any of the provisions of	 therule,  may in exceptional cases, for special and  sufficientreasons to be recorded in writing, be waived, where there isa difficulty in580observing  exactly  the requirements of the rule  and  thoserequirements  can be waived without injustice to the  personcharged."It   was   submitted  relying  upon  that  rule,   that	  noorder  for  dismissal or removal of a member of	 the  IndianCivil  Service	can  be passed unless  an  enquiry  is	heldagainst	 him as prescribed by r. 55.  But the rule in  termsstates	that the enquiry contemplated therein is "  'withoutprejudice   to	the  provisions	 of  the   Public   Servants(Inquiries)  Act, 1850 ". The rule apparently means that  anorder  of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank shall	 notbe  passed  without  an	 enquiry  either  according  to	 theprocedure prescribed by the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act,1850,  or  the procedure prescribed by the Rule.   The	Ruledoes  not support the submission that even if an enquiry  beheld under the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850, beforean  order  of dismissal or removal or  reduction  is  passedagainst	 a  member  of the  civil  service  another  enquiryexpressly  directed under r. 55 shall be made. The  argumenton behalf of the appellant proceeds upon an assumption whichis  not	 warranted by the language used, or by	the  contextthat  the expression without prejudice' is used in the	ruleas meaning notwithstanding'.The observations made in S. A. Venkataraman v. The Union  ofIndia and Another(1) by Mr. Justice Mukherjea, in deliveringthe judgment of the court, that :"Rule 55, which finds a place in the same chapter, lays downthe  procedure	to be followed before passing  an  order  ofdismissal,  removal or reduction in rank against any  memberof  the service.  No such order shall be passed	 unless	 theperson	concerned  has	been informed, in  writing,  of	 thegrounds	 on which it is proposed to take action against	 himand  has been afforded an adequate opportunity of  defendinghimself.   An enquiry has to be made regarding	his  conductand  this  may	be  done  either  in  accordance  with	 theprovisions  of the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act of  1850,or  in a less formal and less public manner as	is  providedfor in the rule itself(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1150.581dispel doubt, if there be any, as to the true meaning of theopening clause of the rule.Does  the  holding of an enquiry against a  public   servantunder the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850 -violate theequal protection clause of the Constitution ? The  appellantsubmits	 that the Government is invested with  authority  todirect	an  enquiry in one of two alternative modes  and  bydirecting  an enquiry under the Public Servants	 (Inquiries)Act  which  Act	 it is	submitted  contains  more  stringentprovisions  when  against another public  servant  similarlycircumstanced  an enquiry under r. 55 may be directed,	Art.14  of the Constitution is infringed.  The  Constitution  byArt.  311(2)  guarantees to a public  servant  charged	withmisdemeanour  that  he shall not be  dismissed,	 removed  orreduced	 in  rank  unless he has  been	given  a  reasonableopportunity of -showing cause against the action proposed tobe  taken in regard to him.  The content of  that  guaranteewas  explained	in  Khem Chand v. The  Union  of  India	 andOthers(1).  It was observed that:"the reasonable opportunity envisaged by the provision underconsideration includes- (a)An	opportunity  to	 deny his guilt	 and  establish	 hisinnocence,  which  he  can only do if he is  told  what	 thecharges	 levelled  against him are and	the  allegations  onwhich such charges are based ;(b) an opportunity to defend  himself by cross-examining thewitnesses  produced against him and by examining himself  orany  other witnesses in support of his defence; and  finally(c) an opportunity to make his representation as to why	 theproposed punishment should not be inflicted on him, which hecan only do if the competent authority, after the enquiry isover and after applying his mind to the gravity or otherwiseof  the	 charges  proved  against  the	government   servanttentatively proposes to inflict one of the three punishmentsand communicates the same to the government servant."By the Constitution, to public servants who are not  membersof the Indian Civil Service charged with(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 1080 at 1096-97.582misdemeanour  a	 guarantee  to a  fair	enquiry	 into  theirconduct is given: i. e., the public servant must be affordeda  reasonable opportunity of defending himself	against	 thecharges	 by  demonstrating that the evidence  on  which	 thecharges	 are sought to be founded is untrue  or	 unreliable,and also by leading evidence of himself and his witnesses tothat  end; he must, besides, be afforded an  opportunity  ofshowing	  cause	 against  the  proposed	  punishment.	 TheConstitution however does not guarantee an enquiry  directedin  exercise of any specific statutory powers or  administr-ative rules.  But the guarantee in favour of members of	 theIndian Civil Service is slightly different.  By Art. 314,  apublic	servant who was appointed by the Secretary of  Stateto a civil service of the Crown in India continues except asexpressly  provided  by	 the Constitution on  or  after	 thecommencement   of  the	Constitution  to  serve	 under	 theGovernment  of	India or of the State subject  to  the	sameconditions  of service as respects remuneration,  leave	 andpension and the same rights as respects disciplinary mattersor  rights as similar thereto as changed  circumstances	 maypermit as that person was entitled to immediately before theConstitution.	  Rule	  55   of   the	   Civil    Services(Classification,  Control and Appeal) Rules before the	dateof  the	 Constitution assured the public  servants  that  noorder of dismissal, or removal from service shall be  passedexcept following upon an enquiry, and by Art. 314, to  civilservants appointed by the Secretary of State the same rightsin  disciplinary  matters  as  were  available	before	 theConstitution  are guaranteed.  A member of the Indian  CivilService, before disciplinary action is taken against him  istherefore  entitled by the force of guarantees enshrined  inthe Constitution to an enquiry into his alleged misdemeanoureither under the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act or under r.55  of	the  Civil  Services  (Classification,	Control	 andAppeal) Rules, in operation at the date of the Constitution.But the guarantee being one of an enquiry directed under oneof  two alternative powers, the exercise of authority  underone of the two alternatives is not prima facie illegal.583The procedure to be followed in making an enquiry under	 thePublic Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850, is prescribed in somedetail.	  The Enquiry Commissioner is required to supply  tothe  person  accused a copy of the articles of	charges	 andlist of the Documents and witnesses by which the charges areto be sustained at least three days before the beginning  ofthe  enquiry.	By  s. II, the	prosecutor  is	required  toexhibit	 articles of charges which are read and	 the  personaccused is required to plead ' guilty ' or ' not guilty ' toeach  of  them;	 then  the plea of  the	 person	 accused  isrequired  to  be  recorded and if that	person	refuses,  orwithout	 reasonable cause neglects to appear to	 answer	 thecharge	either	personally or by his counsel  or  agent,  heshall be taken to admit the truth of the articles of charge.By ss. 13, 14, 15 and 16, the sequence to be followed in theexamination   of  witnesses  is	 prescribed.	Section	  18prescribes the method of maintaining notes of oral evidence.By s. 19, after the person accused has made his defence, theprosecutor  is given an opportunity to make a  general	oralreply  on  the	whole  case  and  to  exhibit  evidence	  tocontradict  any evidence exhibited for the defence; but	 theperson	accused	 is not entitled to any adjournment  of	 theproceedings although such new evidence were not included  inthe list furnished to him.  By s. 20, power is given to	 theEnquiry Commissioner to amend the charge.  This procedure isevidently  prescribed in greater detail than  the  procedureprescribed  by r. 55.  Under r. 55, the grounds on which  itis  proposed  to  take action  against	the  public  servantconcerned  must be reduced to the form of a definite  chargeand  be communicated to him together with the  statement  ofthe  allegations  on which each charge is based and  of	 anyother  circumstances  on which it is proposed to  take	intoconsideration  in  passing orders on the case.	 The  publicservant	 must be given reasonable time to put in  a  writtenstatement of his defenee and to state whether he desires  tobe heard in person, and if he desires or if the authority sodirects,  an  oral enquiry must be held.  At  that  enquiry,opportunity is given to the public servant to  cross-examinewitnesses584to give evidence in person and to examine his own witnesses.The provisions of the Public Servants	(Inquiries)	Act,1850, were made more detailed for the obvious reason that atthe  time when that Act was  enacted, there was no  codifiedlaw  of evidence in force. But the procedure  prescribed  byAct XXXVII of 1850 and the procedure to be followed under r.55 are in substance not materially different.  Under  eitherform  of  enquiry, the public servant concerned	 has  to  begiven  notice  of  the charges against him;  he	 has  to  besupplied with the materials on which the charge is sought tobe  sustained  and if he so desires, he may demand  an	oralhearing	 at which the witnesses for the prosecution and	 hisown witnesses shall be examined.Counsel for the appellant submitted that the procedure underthe  Act  was  more  onerous  against  the  public   servantconcerned in two important respects: (1) under s. 11 of	 ActXXXVII of 1850, if the accused refuses or without reasonablecause  neglects to appear to answer the charge, he shall  betaken to admit the truth of the articles of charge,  whereasthere is no similar provision in r. 55; (2) that under s. 19of  the	 Act,  even after the evidence for  the	 defence  isclosed, it is open to the prosecutor to exhibit evidence  tocontradict  evidence  exhibited	 for  the  defence  and	 theCommissioner is not bound to adjourn the proceeding althoughthe  new evidence was not included in the list furnished  tothe accused whereas there is no similar provision in r.	 55.The  procedure prescribed by r. 55 is  undoubtedly  somewhatmore elastic, but the provisions similar to those which havebeen   relied	upon  by  counsel  for	the   appellant	  asdiscriminatory	are also implicit in r. 55.  If	 the  publicservant	 concerned  does not desire an oral  enquiry  to  beheld,  there is no obligation upon the authority to hold  anenquiry.  Again, there is nothing in the rule which preventsthe  authority from exhibiting evidence for the	 prosecutionafter the case of the defence is closed if that evidence  isintended  to contradict the evidence of the  public  servantconcerned.The primary constitutional guarantee, a member of the IndianCivil Service is entitled to is one of being585afforded  a  reasonable opportunity of the content  set	 outearlier,  in an enquiry in exercise of powers  conferred  byeither	the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act or r. 55 of	 theCivil  Services (Classification Control and  Appeal)  Rules,and  discrimination is not practised  merely  because resortis  had	 to  one of two alternative  sources  of  authority,unless	it is shown that the procedure adopted	operated  tothe prejudice of the public servant concerned.	In the	casebefore us, the enquiry held against the appellant is not  inmanner different from the manner in which an enquiry may  beheld  consistently with the procedure prescribed by  r.	 55,and  therefore on a plea of inequality before the  law,	 theenquiry held by the Enquiry Commissioner is not liable to bedeclared  void	because	 it  was held  in  a  manner  thoughpermissible  in law, not in the manner, the appellant  says,it might have been held.The plea that the Enquiry Commissioner held the enquiry in amanner violative of the rules of natural justice, may now beconsidered.   The  appellant  examined	at  the	 enquiry  82witnesses and he produced a considerable body of documentaryevidence.  The High Court held that the Enquiry Commissionerdealt with each charge exhaustively and the enquiry was heldin  a  manner just and thorough.  According to	the  learnedJudges of the High Court, on all the applications  submittedby  the	 appellant,  orders  were  passed  by  the   EnquiryCommissioner  and  in  a majority  of  the  orders  detailedreasons	 for  refusing	to  accede to  the  request  of	 theappellant were given.  They also held that the appellant hadno  inherent  right to require the  Commissioner  to  summonevery  witness	cited and failure to  summon  the  witnessescould  not by itself be regarded reasonably as a  ground  onwhich  the procedure could be challenged as contrary to	 therules of natural justice.In  his	 petition before the High Court, in para. 7  it	 wassuggested  by the appellant that his written request to	 theEnquiry Commissioner to hold the enquiry at Delhi or  Simla,but  not at Dharamsala where the appellant had a  reasonableapprehension that the witnesses will be	 freely suborned andinterfered with75586was  summarily rejected'; but admittedly, all the  witnessesof  the	 appellant  were  examined  at	Simla  and  not	  atDharamsala. In  paras.  8,	 9  and 10  of	his  petition  he  submittedthat even though he had brought to the notice of the EnquiryCommissioner that there was a conspiracy among certain	highfunctionaries  of  the Government  and	certain	 influentialpoliticians  against him, the Enquiry Commissioner  declinedto  permit the evidence about the alleged conspiracy  to  bebrought on the record and observed that he will not give anydefinite finding against any functionary or high officer  ofthe Government and on this account the enquiry was vitiated.Before us, this contention was not pressed.  By para. 10  ofhis petition, the appellant stated that even those documentswhich  the appellant desired to be called for to  rebut	 thespecific  charges were not ordered to be called for  by	 theEnquiry	 Commissioner  and he merely directed  that  if	 theappellant  possessed  any copies of such documents,  he	 mayfile  them  in the court and that those	 documents  will  betreated as legal substitute for the original documents.	 Theappellant   submitted  that  this  extraordinary   procedureresulted  in  the exclusion of the admissions  of  the	highfunctionaries  of the Punjab Government to the	effect	thatthe charges framed against the appellant directly arose	 outof a conspiracy carried out against the appellant.   Neitherof  these  grounds was sought to be pressed before  us.	  Inpara.	II, the appellant stated that the proceedings  takenand  the charges framed against him were mala fide  and	 theresult	of  a  conspiracy,  that  the  Enquiry	Commissionerexcluded  other	 evidence, documentary and oral,  which	 wassought	to be produced to show that the specific charges  asframed	against him were the result of acts of	conspiracy,,that  the Enquiry Commissioner insisted on a  discriminatoryprocedure  requiring  the appellant to state in	 advance  incase  of  each item of evidence or witness, as to  what	 thedocument  contained  or the witness had to state  before  hewould  agree to summon or record the defence evidence  whilethis   procedure  was  not  adopted  in	 the  case  of	 theprosecution.  Before this court, the587plea  of mala fides or that discrimination was made  betweenthe facilities given to the prosecutor and the appellant wasnot adverted to.  But reliance was Kapur Singh sought to  beplaced upon the ground that the appellant was not  permittedan  opportunity to examine the witnesses whom he desired  toexamine	 and  to produce certain documentary  evidence,	 andthat on some of the applications which had been submitted bythe  appellant, the Enquiry Commissioner had not passed	 anyorders.	  Our attention was invited to certain	applicationswhich were filed on or after December 28, 1950.	 As  alreadyobserved  on  December 28, 1950, the last  witness  for	 theappellant  was	examined.   His counsel	 then  submitted  anapplication dated December 28, 1950, praying that  documentsand files which had been admitted by the parties as part  ofthe record of the case be formally exhibited for facility ofreference.   This indicates that the appellant had  no	moreevidence  to lead after December 28, 1950.  It is not  clearon  the record whether any express order was passed on	thisapplication;  but assuming that there was no such  directiongiven  for exhibiting the documents, we fail  to  appreciatehow the procedure followed operated to the prejudice of	 theappellant.  On December 29, 1950, the appellant applied thatthe  Advocate  General	appearing  for	the  prosecution  bedirected  to  give 'final and complete answers'	 to  certainqueries and to produce relevant documents in support of	 hisanswers,  and as many as seven questions were set  out.	  Itappears from the application dated December 30, 1950,  filedby  the	 appellant that the Enquiry Commissioner  asked	 theappellant  to remodel the questions and accordingly a  freshapplication  with questions re-modelled was  submitted.	  Onthat  application, the Commissioner ordered that he  had  noobjection to allow the appellant to give evidence as to someincident  about	 '  Pauji Mela' even  though  there  was  noreference to that matter at any earlier stage.	He, however,declined  to  allow any further evidence to  be	 called	 andobserved that he had not given to the Prosecutor any specialprivilege,  and that it was not the case of  the  Prosecutorthat there existed express588instructions to District Officers in the management of trustfunds.	 The  appellant also submitted	another	 applicationdated December 30, 1950, praying that the Prosecutor may  beasked  to  reply  to the questions set out  therein  and  toproduce	 documents  in support of is answers.	The  EnquiryCommissioner  ordered that answers to the questions  may  begiven  on  affidavits  obviating thereby  the  necessity  ofconsidering  the prayer for further evidence, and he  calledupon  the Prosecutor to file answers within one	 month.	  Inthe  meanwhile,	 on  December 29, 1950,	 the  appellant	 badsubmitted an affidavit in which he had set out what happenedat a meeting between the Governor of East Punjab, the  ChiefSecretary and the Deputy Commissioners of various  districtsand   the  superintendents  of	police,	 and  made   certainsubmissions  with  regard  to  the  record  which  had	beenproduced.   On	December 31, 1950, referring  to  the  orderpassed	 by  the  Commissioner	giving	the   appellant	  anopportunity to give evidence regarding the 'Fauji Mela', thelatter	requested the Commissioner to direct the  Prosecutorto file an affidavit on certain facts stated in the  applic-ation  with a view to enable him to take  further  necessarysteps  to establish his contentions in the matter.  On	thatapplication,  the  Enquiry  Commissioner  ordered  that	 theProsecutor  was	 unable	 to  make  statements  and  in	 thecircumstances 'of the case he could not accept that  furtherenquiries  be allowed.	On January, 2, 1951,  the  appellantproduced  a post card alleged to have been received  by	 himand which he contended had a bearing on his evidence in	 theenquiry	 and prayed that if the Enquiry Commissioner had  noobjection,' the writer of the enclosure be heard as  defencewitness	 before	 the defence was closed'.  But it  does	 notappear that any attempt was made to summon the writer, SurajParkash	 Bakhshi or to keep him present before	the  EnquiryCommissioner.	When  the Enquiry Commissioner	resumed	 hisenquiry	 after the winter vacation, on March 12,  1951,	 theappellant's  counsel  submitted a  narrative  regarding	 thealleged	 victimisation	of certain witnesses.	The  EnquiryCommissioner ordered thereon that he could not enter589upon  an  enquiry  as to the alleged  victimisation  of	 thewitnesses.   On	 March	12, 1951,  the	appellant  submittedanother	 application  requesting that  immediate    steps betaken  to examine one Tikka Nardev Chand of Guler in  the  "light of certain extra judicial state-	ments " made  by himand  also  the	clerk of the Court of Wards  of	 the  DeputyCommissioner's Office may be summoned with necessary  papersand  files  to show as to when the property of the  Aaja  ofGuler  was taken possession by the Deputy  Commissioner	 andwhen  the  allowances  of the Raja of Guler  and  his  otherdependants  were fixed.	 The Enquiry  Commissioner  observedthat  the application was belated and that although  he	 wasaway  from  Simla,  he	was  accessible	 by  post  and	 hiswhereabouts  were ascertainable and that he could not  allowfurther evidence of that nature to go on the record.  At theinstance of the Prosecutor, the Enquiry Commissioner allowedtwo  witnesses, S. Gurbachan Singh and Ch.  Mangal Singh  toformally prove the statements made by two witnesses,  BishanDas  Gupta and Shahbaz Singh who it was claimed had made  inthe  course of the enquiry statements on  oath	inconsistentwith the statements made in the course of the investigation.Pursuant  to  the order of the	Enquiry	 Commissioner  datedDecember  30, 1950, the Prosecutor filed certain answers  onMarch  13, 1951, to the questions which were ordered by	 theEnquiry Commissioner to answer.The appellant's counsel has conceded that the entire  recordof  -the  Enquiry  Commissioner is not before  us  Both	 thelearned	 Judges	 of the High Court have held that  on  everyapplication   submitted	 by  the  appellant,   the   EnquiryCommissioner  had passed his orders and in a large  majorityof the orders, detailed reasons were given.  We are in	thiscase not concerned to adjudicate upon the correctness of theorders	 passed	 by  the  Enquiry  Commissioner	  on   thoseapplications.	We are only concerned to decide whether	 theproceedings  were  conducted in a manner  violative  of	 therules  of natural justice.  In the petition before the	HighCourt,	beyond a vague reference in para.   1 that  evidencewas excluded and documentary and oral evidence to show that590the specific charges framed against him were the result of aconspiracy " was not allowed to go in", no particulars	werefurnished.  In the circumstances, we are unable to hold thatthe proceedings were conduct-ed in a manner violative of therules of natural justice.  The appellant has not set out  indetail in his  petition	 before	 the  High  Court   specificinstances  in  which  evidence	was  sought  to	 be   given,explaining  how	 the  evidence	was  relevant  and  how	 theappellant was prejudiced by the evidence being shut out.  Inthe absence of any express pleading and adequate material tosupport the plea, we are unable to disagree with the view ofthe High Court that the enquiry was not vitiated on  accountof violation of the rules of natural justice.The President of India was not bound before passing an orderdismissing the appellant, to hear the evidence of witnesses.He  could arrive at his conclusion on the  evidence  alreadyrecorded  in  the enquiry by the Enquiry  Commissioner.	  ByArt.  311 of the Constitution, a public servant is  entitledto  show  cause against the action proposed to be  taken  inregard	to  him, but exercise of the authority	to  pass  anorder	to  the	 prejudice  of	a  public  servant  is	 notconditioned  by the holding of an enquiry at which  evidenceof witnesses viva voce, notwithstanding an earlier fair	 andfull  enquiry before the Enquiry Commissioner, is  recorded.In  The High Commissioner for India and Another v. I.M.	 Lal(1)  dealing with s. 240, cl. 3, Lord Thankerton in  dealingwith similar contentions observed:"  In the opinion of their Lordships, no action is  proposedwithin	the  meaning  of the sub-section  until	 a  definiteconclusion  has been come to on the charges and	 the  actualpunishment to follow is provisionally determined on.   Priorto  that stage, the charges are unproved and  the  suggestedpunishments  are merely hypothetical.  It is on	 that  stagebeing  reached that the statute gives the civil servant	 theopportunity  for  which	 sub-section  (3)  makes  provision.Their  Lordships would only add that they see no  difficultyin the statutory opportunity being reasonably afforded at(1)  75 I.A. 225.591more than one stage.  If the civil servant had been  throughan inquiry under rule 55, it would not be reasonable that heshould ask for a repetition of that  stage, if	duly carriedout; but that would not exhaust his statutory right, and  hewould still be entitled to represent against the  punishmentproposed as the result of the findings of the inquiry."And  this view was affirmed by this court in Khem  Chand  v.The  Union of India and Others (1) where at p. 1099, it	 wasobserved by Chief Justice S. R. Das:"  Of course if the government servant has been through	 theenquiry	 under	r. 55, it would not be	reasonable  that  heshould	ask for a repetition of that stage, if duly  carriedout.  "By the Constitution, an opportunity of showing cause againstthe action proposed to be taken against a public servant  isguaranteed  and	 that  opportunity  must  be  a	  reasonableopportunity.   Whether	opportunity  afforded  to  a  publicservant in a particular case is reasonable must depend	uponthe  circumstances of that case.  The enquiry in  this	casewas  held by the Enquiry Commissioner who occupied the	highoffice of Chief Justice of the East Punjab High Court.	 Theappellant himself examined 82 witnesses and produced a largebody of documentary evidence and submitted an  argumentativedefence	 which covers 321 printed pages.  An opportunity  ofmaking	an  oral  representation not being  in	our  view  anecessary  postulate  of  an opportunity  of  showing  causewithin the meaning of Art. 311 of the Constitution, the pleathat  the  appellant  was  deprived  of	 the  constitutionalprotection of that Article because he was not given an	oralhearing by the President cannot be sustained.The appeal therefore fails and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.(1) [1958] S.C.R. 1080,592