PETITIONER:CORPORATION OF CALCUTTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:MULCHAND AGARWALLA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/11/1955BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAIMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR  110		  1955 SCR  (2) 995ACT:Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923, (Bengal Act III of 1923),	 ss.363,  488  and Rule 62 of  Schedule  XVII-Prior	 proceedingstaken by Corporation of Calcutta under s. 488 read with Rule62  of	Schedule  XVII	-Whether a  bar	 to  the  subsequentproceedings  under  s.	363 of	the  Act  -Inconvenience  toneighbours-Whether   relevant  for  making  an	 order	 fordemolition  under s. 363 of the Act-Proceedings on the	samefacts  competent  to be taken under two	 different  sectionsproviding different penalties-Whether distinct	proceedings-Word  "may"  in s. 363 of the Act,  whether  means  "shall"-Discretion  vested  in	the Magistrate	under  s.  363-Orderpassed	by  on authority entrusted with discretion  to	passsuch  order-When liable to be interfered with by the  appel-late Court.HEADNOTE:The  Corporation  of Calcutta is not precluded	from  takingproceedings under s. 363 of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923by  reason  of its having taken	 proceedings  prior  theretounder s. 488 of the Act read with Rule 62 of Schedule XVII.The question of inconvenience to neighbours is not  relevantfor the purpose of deciding whether an order for  demolitionshould be made under s. 363 of the Act.When  the  Legislature	provides  that	on  the	 same  factsproceedings could be taken under two different sections	 andthe  penalties provided in those sections are not the  same,it  obviously  intends	to  treat  them	 as  distinct,	and,therefore,  where  no question under s. 403 of the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  arises,  proceedings  taken  under	 onesection cannot be treated as falling within the other.The word.  "may" in s. 363 of the Act does not mean  "shall"and the Magistrate has under that section discretion whetherhe should pass an order for demolition or not.It  is	a well-settled principle that when  the	 legislatureentrusts  to an authority the power to pass an order in	 itsdiscretion an order passed by that authority in exercise  ofthat discretion is, in general, not liable to be  interferedwith  by an appellate court, unless it can be shown to	havebeen  based on some mistake of facts or	 misapprehension  ofthe principles applicable thereto.In the present case, however, the orders of the courts belowwere based on mistakes and misdirections and therefore couldnot be supported.But  the Supreme Court did not think this to be a  fit	casefor an order for the demolition of the buildings in view  ofcertain	 special circumstances, viz, (1) though s.,  363(2),which directs that no appli-126996cation for demolition shall be instituted after the lapse offive  years  from the date of the work, did not,  in  terms,apply  as the proceedings had been started in time,  it	 wasnearly five years since the building bad been completed	 andthe interests of the public did not call for its demolition,and (2) the appeal came on a certificate granted under	art.134(1)(c)  with	 a  view to obtaining the  decision  of	 theSupreme Court on certain questions of importance.Abdul  Samzad v. Corporation of Calcutta ([1905]  I.L.R.  33Cal. 287), referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 60  of1954.Appeal under Article 134(1)(c) of the Constitution of  Indiafrom  the Judgment and order dated the 19th January 1954  ofthe Calcutta High Court in Criminal Revision No. 865 of 1953arising	 out of the Judgment and Order dated the 29th  April1953 of the Court of Third Municipal Magistrate, Calcutta inCase No. 108-A of 1951.N.   C. Chatterji, (S.	K. Bose and Sukumar Ghose, with him)for the appellant.G.   P.	 Kar,  (A.  K. Mukherjee and D. N.  Mukherjee,	withhim) for the respondent.1955.  November 17.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AYYAR J.-This is an appeal against the  judgmentof  the	 High Court of Calcutta affirming the order  of	 theMunicipal  Magistrate, whereby he dismissed  an	 applicationfiled  by  the appellant under section 363 of  the  CalcuttaMunicipal Act, 1923, hereinafter referred to as the Act, fordemolition of certain constructions on the ground that	theyhad  been  erected without the previous	 permission  of	 theauthorities  and in contravention of the prescriptions	laiddown in the building rules.The  respondent	 is  the owner of  house  No.  36,  ArmenianStreet,	 Calcutta.  On 28-10-1950 the Building Inspector  ofthe Corporation discovered that some new masonry  structureswere being constructed on the fifth storey of that house.  Anotice	under section 365 of the Act was immediately  servedon  the respondent directing him to stop  forthwith  furthercon-997structions  pending an application to the  Magistrate  undersection	  363  of  the	Act.   What  followed	thereon	  isgraphically  described by the learned Chief Justice  of	 theHigh  Court  in his order dated 9-4-1954 granting  leave  toappeal	to this Court, as a hide-and-seek game.	 On  receiptof  the	 notice, the respondent stopped the work for  a	 fewdays,  and  thereby lulled the Building Inspector  into	 thebelief	that no further constructions would be	made.	Whenthe  Inspector	ceased to inspect the  premises	 daily,	 therespondent  resumed  the  work, and on	7-11-1950  when	 theInspector  came	 again	on  the scene,	he  found  that	 theconstruction was being proceeded with.	A police  -constablewas then posted for watch under section 365 (3) of the	Act,-and  he continued there till 10-11-1950, on which date	 therespondent  wrote  to  the Corporation	that  he  would	 notproceed further with the construction.	The police watch wasthereupon  withdrawn on the respondent paying Rs.  40  beingthe  charges payable therefor.	On 7-12-1950  the  Inspectoragain  inspected the premises, and found that the  construc-tion  was being proceeded with, and had a  constable  postedagain  for  watch.   On 13-12-1950 the	appellant  lodged  acomplaint before the Magistrate under section 488 read	withRule  62  of  Schedule XVII  charging  the  respondent	withconstructing two rooms in the fifth storey without obtainingpermission.   Section 488(1)(a) enacts that whoever  commitsany  offence  by contravening any provisions of any  of	 thesections  or rules of the Act mentioned in the first  columnof the table annexed thereto, shall be punished with fine asspecified  in  the said table.	Rule 62	 provides  that	 theerection of a new building shall not be commenced unless anduntil  the Corporation have granted written  permission	 forthe execution of the same.  The complaint was heard on 11-4-1951.  The respondent pleaded guilty, and was fined Rs. 200.While the proceedings under section 488 were pending  beforethe  Magistrate,  the  Corporation  would  appear  to	haveexamined  the  nature  of the constructions put	 up  by	 therespondent, and found that they contravened Rules 3, 14,  25and 32 of Schedule XVII,998and  decided  to  take	action	under  section	363.	Theyaccordingly issued a notice to the respondent to show  causewhy  action  should not be taken under	that  section.	 Therespondent  appeared  by  counsel on  13-2-1951,  and  afterhearing	 him, the appellant decided on 6-3-1951 to move	 thecourt  for an order under section 363, and the petition	 outof which the present appeal arises, was actually filed on 4-4-1951.	  There	 was delay in serving  the  respondent,	 andafter  he  was actually served which was on  17-9-1951,	 thecase  underwent several adjournments, and finally  on  29-4-1953 the Magistrate passed an order dismissing the petition.There  was  no	dispute that the  building  rules  had	beencontravened.   The Magistrate, however, held that he  had  adiscretion  under  section  363	 whether  he  should  directdemolition,  and  that this was not a fit case in  which  anorder	should	 be  made  for	 demolition,   because	 theconstructions  being on the fifth storey could not  obstructlight and air and thereby inconvenience the neighbours,	 andthere  was no complaint from the residents of the  locality,and  that as the respondent had already been fined  in	pro-ceedings under section 488, an order for demolition would beto penalise him twice over for the same offence.Against	 this order, the appellant preferred a	revision  tothe  High  Court  of  Calcutta.	 That was  heard  by  K.  C.Chunder, J. He agreed with the Magistrate that under section363  the  court	 had a discretion whether  it  should  orderdemolition  or	not, and that as the Corporation  had  takenproceedings under section 488 and was content to have a fineimposed on the respondent for breach of Rule 62, it would beunjust	to permit it thereafter to start  proceedings  undersection	 363  for the further relief of	 demolition  of	 thebuilding.  He also commented on the undue ,delay on the partof  the Corporation in taking out the application, and	tookinto  account the fact that no complaint had  been  receivedfrom  the  locality.   In  the	result,	 he  dismissed	the-revision.The  appellant applied under article 134(1)(c) for leave  toappeal to this Court.  Chakravarti, C. J. and999S.  R. Das Gupta, J. who heard this application,  consideredthat  two questions of general importance arose on which  itwas desirable to have the decision of this Court, viz.,	 (1)whether	  the	Corporation  was   precluded   from   takingproceedings  under section 363 of the Act by reason  of	 itshaving taken proceedings prior thereto under section 488  ofthe Act read with Rule 62 of Schedule XVII, and (2)  whetherthe question of inconvenience to neighbours was relevant forthe  purpose  of deciding whether an  order  for  demolitionshould	be  made  under	 section  363  of  the	Act.	Theyaccordingly granted leave under article 134 (1)(c), and thatis how the appeal is now before us.The  first  question that arises for  our  determination  iswhether the present proceedings under section 363 are barredby  reason of the application which was filed under  section488.   It is conceded that there is nothing express  in	 thestatute enacting such a bar, but it is contended that it  isto  be implied from the proviso to section 363	that  "wherethe  Corporation have instituted proceedings  under  section493,  no  application  shall be made  under  this  section".Admittedly,  the appellant instituted no  proceedings  undersection 493; but it is argued that proceedings under section488  substantially  fall within section 493,  and  that	 theproviso	 should therefore be held to be	 applicable.   Undersection	 493,  if  the	erection  of  any  new	building  iscommenced  without  obtaining the writen permission  of	 theCorporation, the owner of the building shall be liable to  afine  which  may  extend up to Rs. 500.	 Then,	there  is  aproviso	 that  where  an application  had  been	 made  undersection	 363, no proceeding shall be instituted	 under	thissection.  This corresponds to the proviso to section 363 setout above, and reading the two provisions, it is clear	thatthe   proceedings  under  the  two  sections  are   mutuallyexclusive.  Now, the contention of the respondent is that  aprosecution  under  section  488 for breach of	rule  62  ofSchedule  XVII is, in essence, a prosecution  under  section493(a),	 and  that, therefore, the proviso  to	section	 363becomes applicable.  We are1000unable to agree with this contention.  When the	 Legislatureprovides  that on the same facts proceedings could be  takenunder  two different sections and the penalties provided  inthose  sections	 are not the same, it obviously	 intends  totreat  them as distinct, and, therefore, where	no  questionunder section 403 of the Code of Criminal Procedure  arises,proceedings  taken  under one section cannot be	 treated  asfalling within the other.  The penalty prescribed in section488 for breach of rule 62 of Schedule XVII is fine up to thelimit of Rs. 200, whereas the penalty provided for the	sameoffence under section 493(a) is fine which may extend to Rs.500.   It  will	 not therefore be  in  consonance  with	 theintention of the Legislature to hold that proceedings  undersection	 488 are in substance the same as proceedings  undersection	 493, so as to be subject to the disability  enactedin  the	 proviso to section 363.  If the  intention  of	 theLegislature  was  that proceedings taken under	section	 488read  with rule 62 of Schedule XVII should  bar	 proceedingsunder section 363, it could have said so expressly as it didwith  reference to proceedings taken under section 493.	  Toaccede to the contention of the respondent would be to	readinto  section  363  limitations which are not  to  be  foundthere.	We cannot accept such a construction.It  was	 next argued by learned counsel for  the  respondentthat  it  was  open to the Corporation	to  have  asked	 fordemolition  of the building in the proceedings taken  by  itunder  section	488, and as it did not ask for	it  and	 wascontent	 with the imposition of fine, it was precluded	fromclaiming  that	relief	in the	present	 proceedings.	Thisargument is based on section 536, which is as follows:"When  under  this  Act	 or under any  rule  or	 bylaw	madethereunder any person is liable, in respect of any  unlawfulwork,-(a)  to pay a fine, and(b)  to be required to demolish the work,a  Magistrate  may,  in his discretion and  subject  to	 theprovisions  of	sections 363, 364 and 493, direct  the	saidperson to pay the fine and also to demolish the work".1001In  his	 order	dated 9-4-1954, the  learned  Chief  Justiceexpressed a doubt whether the Corporation could apply for  ademolition  order,  when instituting  an  application  undersection 488 for breach of Rule 62 of Schedule XVII.  We	 areinclined to share this doubt.  What Rule 62 prohibits is theerection  of a building without permission, and	 under	thatRule,	the  breach  is	 complete  when	 the  erection	 hascommenced, without reference to whether the construction  isbeing  carried	on or completed.  A question  of  demolitioncannot	therefore arise with reference to a breach  of	Rule62.  It can arise only when the construction of the buildingis carried on or completed otherwise than in accordance withthe  terms  of	the permission or in breach of	any  of	 theprovisions  of	the  Act or the rules.	Now,  in  the  tableannexed	 to  section  488,  while a breach  of	Rule  62  ofSchedule XVII is made punishable with fine which may  extendto Rs. 200, there is no similar provision with reference  tobreach	of  Rules 3, 14, 25 and 32 of  that  Schedule.	 Butthere  is,  instead, a provision that when  a  direction  isasked for under section 363(1) for demolition, an order	 canbe passed imposing fine which may extend to Rs. 250.   Underthat  section,	it should be noted, an	application  for  anorder for demolition can be made on three grounds, viz., (1)that  the  erection of building has been  commenced  withoutpermission,  (2)  that it has been carried on  or  completedotherwise   than  in  accordance  with	the  terms  of	 thepermission, or (3) that it has been carried on or  completedin  breach  of the provisions contained in the	Act  or	 therules.	But there is this difference between an	 applicationbased  on ground No. 1 aforesaid and one founded on  groundsNos.  2	 and 3, that while a question of  demolition  cannotarise  with reference to the former when the charge is	com-mencement or the construction without permission and at thatstage  no question of demolition of, a building	 necessarilyarises, it does arise as regards the latter. Therefore, whenan  application is made under section 488, whether an  ordercould  be made under section 536 for demolition will  dependon the ground on which it is founded.  And, where, as in the1002present	  case,	 the  application  was	based	solely	 andexclusively  on	 a breach of Rule 62 of	 Schedule  XVII,  noorder  could have been passed for demolition  under  section536.   It  is immaterial for the present  purpose  that	 thebuilding had been completed when the order was passed on 11-4-1951	on  the application under section 488,	because	 thepower  to  pass an order under section 536 would  depend  onwhat the charge as actually laid in the petition was and noton what it might have been.But  even if the Magistrate had the power under section	 536to order demolition of the building, we cannot hold that theappellant  is precluded from asking for such an order  undersection 363 merely by reason of the fact that the Magistratehad  failed  to	 pass  such  an	 order,	 or  even  that	 theCorporation  did  not ask for it in the	 prior	proceedings.There is no question of the application of any principle  ofconstructive  res  judicata,  and there is  nothing  in	 thestatute which bars the appellant from claiming relief  undersection 363.  We cannot therefore uphold the contention thatthe  appellant	is  precluded in any  manner  by  the  priorproceedings  taken  under section 488 from  instituting	 thepresent petition under section 363.In  this view, the point for decision is whether  the  orderpassed	by  the	 Municipal Magistrate and  affirmed  by	 thelearned	 Judge in revision is open to attack on the  merits.The  respondent	 contends  that	 the  Magistrate  has  undersection 363 a discretion whether he should pass an order fordemolition or not, and that this Court should not in  appealinterfere  with the exercise of that  discretion  especiallywhen  it has been concurred in by the High Court.  Now,	 thelanguage  of section 363 is that the Magistrate may pass  anorder  for demolition of the building, and though  the	word'may'  might  in  some	contexts  be  construed	 as  meaning'shall',  that	is  not the sense in which  it	is  used  insection 363.  We agree with the respondent that section	 363does not require that when a building is shown to have	beenerected	 without permission or completed otherwise  than  inaccordance with the terms of the permission or in breach1003of the building rules, an order for its demolition should bemade  as a matter of course.  In our opinion, it  does	givethe Magistrate a discretion whether he should or should	 notpass such an order.  That was the construction put in  AbdulSamad  v. Corporation of Calcutta(') on section 449  of	 theCalcutta  Municipal  Act,  (Bengal Act III  of	1899)  whichcorresponds  to section 363 of the present Act	on  languagewhich  is,  so far as the present matter is  concerned,	 thesame.  in re-enacting the present section in the same  termsas  section 449 of Bengal Act III of 1899, it must be  takenthat the legislature has accepted the interpretation put  onthem  in  Abdul	 Samad	v.  Corporation	 of  Calcutta(1)  ascorrectly representing its intention.  It should accordinglybe  held  that the word 'may' in section 363 does  not	mean"shall',  and that the Magistrate has under that  section  adiscretion whether be should pass an order for demolition ornot.Then the question is whether the exercise of that discretionby the courts below is open to review by this Court.  It  isa well-settled principle that when the legislature  entruststo  an	authority  the	power  to  pass	 an  order  in	 itsdiscretion, an order passed by that authority in exercise ofthat discretion is, in general, not liable to be  interferedwith  by an appellate court, unless it can be shown to	havebeen based on some mistake of fact or misapprehension of theprinciples applicable thereto.	The appellant contends	thatthe   orders  under  appeal  are  based	 on   mistakes	 andmisapprehensions,  and are therefore liable to be  reversed,and  that contention must now be examined.  The	 grounds  onwhich the orders of the courts below are based are (1)	thatthere  has  been  considerable	delay on  the  part  of	 theappellant  in  moving  in the matter, (2)  that	 as  in	 theproceedings taken under section 488 the respondent has	beenfined,	an order for demolition was not called for, and	 (3)that  the breach of the building rules has not	resulted  inany  inconvenience  to the public, nor has  there  been	 anycomplaint  from	 the residents of the locality	about  this.The materials placed before us do not show(1)  [1905] I.L.R. 33 Cal. 287.127			    1004that  there  has  been any great delay on the  part  of	 theappellant,  The	 learned Judge has stated that	the  presentproceedings  for  demolition were taken	 subsequent  to	 theimposition  of	fine on 11-4-1951 in the  proceedings  undersection	 488.	This is a mistake.   The  proceedings  undersection	 363  bad been commenced as early as  February	1951when   notice  was  issued  to	the  respondent	 under	 theprovisions  of that section, and the petition  was  actuallyfiled in court on 4-4-1951.  It is true that the proceedingswere pending for nearly two years before the Magistrate, butas  observed  by  the learned Chief Justice,  far  from	 theCorporation  being  responsible for it, it appears  to	havebeen the victim of delay on the part of the respondent.Both  the courts below have mainly based their order on	 thefact  that the, Corporation having taken  proceedings  undersection	  488  and  a  fine  having  been  imposed  on	 therespondent,  it would be unjust to impose a further  penaltyfor  the same offence by way of demolition.  The  assumptionon  which this reasoning rests is that the charge  on  whichthe present proceedings have been taken is the same as	thaton  which the petition under section 488 was laid.  But,  asalready	 pointed out, that is not correct.  The	 proceedingsunder section 488 were taken for erecting a building withoutpermission   whereas  the  present  proceedings	 are   takensubstantially for breaches of the building rules, which	 arequite  independent  of	the charge under Rule  62,  and	 therespondent is therefore not punished twice over for the samedefault.  The learned Judge observes that this was not a fitcase  for  exercising  the  discretion	in  favour  of	 theappellant,  because in the prior proceedings  under  section488,  it  did not ask for an order for demolition,  nor	 wassuch  an  order made by the Magistrate.	 That  is  obviouslywith  reference	 to  section 536 which we have	held  to  beinapplicable  to  the present case.  Moreover  ,  when	thatsection enacts that the Magistrate could both impose a	fineand order demolition of the building, that clearly indicatesthat  the  fact that a fine has been imposed should  not  byitself and with-1005out  more,  be	taken  as  sufficient  ground  for  refusingdemolition.The courts below were also influenced by the fact that therewas  no complaint from the neighbours about the erection  ofthe building.  It must be remembered that the building rulesare  enacted  generally for the benefit of the	public,	 andwhere  those  rules have been violated and  proceedings	 aretaken  for  an order for demolition of	the  building  undersection 363, what has to be decided is whether the  breachesare of a formal or trivial character, in which case the	 im-position of a fine might meet the requirements of the  case,or  whether they are serious and likely to affect  adverselythe  interests	of  the public, in which case  it  would  beproper	to pass an order for demolition.  Whether there	 hasbeen  a	 complaint  from the public would  not	as  such  bematerial for deciding the question, though if there was one,it  would  be a piece of evidence in  deciding	whether	 theinterests  of  the  public have suffered by  reason  of	 thebreaches.The  position, therefore, is that the orders of	 the  courtsbelow are based on mistakes and misdirections, and cannot besupported.   The  conduct of the respondent  in	 adopting  ahide-and-seek  attitude in completing the  constructions  indeliberate defiance of the law calls for severe action.	  Itwould  be most unfortunate, and the interests of the  publicwill  greatly  suffer, if the notion were to  be  encouragedthat  a person might with impunity break the building  rulesand put up a construction and get away with it on payment offine.	All this would be good justification for  making  anorder for demolition.  But then, it is now nearly five yearssince the building was completed, and though section  363(2)which  directs that no application for demolition  shall  beinstituted after a lapse of five years from the date of	 thework does not, in terms, apply as the proceedings have	beenstarted in time, we do not feel that after the lapse of	 allthis  time,  an order for demolition is called	for  in	 theinterests of the public.  We also take into account the factthat the orders in question would not have come before Us inthe normal course by way of appeal,1006were it not that the appellant desired that the decision  ofthis  Court  should  be obtained  on  certain  questions  ofimportance,  and  that	purpose has  been  achieved.   On  aconsideration of all the circumstances, we do not think thatthis  is  a fit case in which we should pass  an  order	 fordemolition.   We  should,  however,  add  that	we  find  nojustification for the strictures passed on the appellant  bythe court below.In the result, the appeal is dismissed.