PETITIONER:BRIJENDRALAL GUPTA AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:JWALAPRASAD AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:22/04/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR 1049		  1960 SCR  (3) 650 CITATOR INFO : D	    1972 SC 580	 (23) R	    1975 SC1274	 (2)ACT:       Election-Nomination,  rejection	of-Non-mention	of  age	 in       nomination  Paper-If defect of substantial  nature-Omission,       if   amounts  to	 defect-Scrutiny-When  enquiry	 necessary-       Electoral  Roll-Entry  regarding	 age  How  far	conclusive-       Representation  of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) ss.	 33       and 36-Representation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of  1950),       ss. 16 and 19.HEADNOTE:Thirteen  candidates  filed  their  nomination	papers	 forelection to the Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh.	 Thenomination of U was rejected on the ground that he failed togive  a	 declaration  as  to his  age  as  required  in	 thenomination  paper.   After  the	 poll  the  appellants	weredeclared  duly elected.	 Thereupon one of  the	unsuccessfulcandidates  J  filed an election  petition  challenging	 theelection  of the appellants, inter alia, on the ground	thatthe  nomination	 of  U had  been  improperly  rejected.	 TheElection Tribunal dismissed the petition holding that U madeno attempt before the returning officer to remedy the defectin  the nomination paper, that the defect could not  in	 lawhave  been  remedied at the stage of the scrutiny  that	 thedefect was of a substantial character and that the rejectionof the nomination was proper.  On appeal the High Court heldthat at the time of the scrutiny U had offered to supply theomission but the returning officer had refused to allow	 himto  do	so, that the returning officer was bound to  make  asummary	 enquiry before rejecting the nomination,  that	 thenon-mention of age in the nomination paper was not a  defectof  a  substantial character and that the rejection  of	 thenomination was improper and consequently allowed the  appealand set aside the election of the appellants:651Held, that the omission to give the declaration as to age inthe  nomination paper was a defect of substantial  characterwithin the meaning of s. 36(4), Representation of the PeopleAct,  1951, and the rejection of the nomination for such  anomission wasproper.Rattan Anmol Singh v. Atma Ram, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 481, PranlalThakorlal  Munshi  v.  lndubhai Bhailabhai  Amin,  (1952)  1E.L.R.	182, Rup Lal v. jugaraj Singh, (1958) 5 E.L.R.	484,Brij  Sundar Sharma v. Election Tribunal, Jaipur, (1956)  12E.L.R. 216, Balasubyahmanyan v. Election Tribunal,  Vellore,(1953)	7 E.L.R. 496 and Ramayan Shukla v.  Rajendra  PrasadSingh (1958) 16 E.L.R. 491, referred to.Durga  Shankar Mehta v. Thakur Raghuraj Singh,	[1955]	S.C.140 and Karnail Singh v. Election Tribunal Hissar, [1954] 10E.L.R. 189, distinguished.Pt.   Charanjit	 Lal Ram Sarup v. Lohri	 Singh	Ram  Narain,A.I.R. 1958 Punj. 433, disapproved.The  word  "  defect" in S. 36(4) included  an	omission  tospecify	 the  details  prescribed in  the  nomination.	 Thedistinction  drawn in English cases between an " omission  "and  "	inaccurate description" depended upon  the  specificprovisions of the English statutes and did not obtain  underthe Indian Law.The  Queen  v.	Tugwell, (1868) 3 Q.B. 704  and	 Baldwin  v.Ellis, (1929) 1 K.B. 273, distinguished.Cases failing under s. 36(2) (b) must be distinguished	fromthose  falling	under s. 36(2) (a).   Where  the  nominationpaper did not comply with the provisions of s. 33 of the Actthe  case  fell	 under	s.  36(2)  (b)	and  the   defectivenomination  had to be accepted or rejected according as	 thedefect	 was  of  an  unsubstantial  or	 of  a	 substantialcharacter.   In	 such a case it was not	 necessary  for	 thereturning officer to hold any enquiry.JUDGMENT:       CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 151 of 1960.       Appeal  by special leave from the judgment and  order  dated       November	 23,  1959,  of	 the  Madhya  Pradesh  High  Court,       Jabalpur, in First Appeal No. 78 of 1959, arising out of the       judgment	 and  order  dated May 12, 1959,  of  the  Election       Tribunal, Raigarh, in Election Petition No. 76/1957.       G.   S. Pathak and G. C. Mathur, for the appellants.       N.C. Chatterjee, S . K. Kapur, Y. S. Dharamadhikaree  and       A. G. Ratnaparkhi, for respondent No. 1.       1960.  April 22.	 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by       GAJENDRAGADKAR,	J.-Does	 the failure of a  candi-  date	 to       specify	his age as required by the prescribed form  of	the       nomination paper amount to a defect of a       652       substantial  character under s. 36(4) of the  Representation       of the People Act, 43 of 1951 (hereinafter called the  Act)?       That  is the point of law which arises for our  decision	 in       the present appeal.  The said point arises in this way.	 On       February	 25,  1957,  polling  took  place  at  the  General       Election to the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly from the       Mamendragarh    Double	Member	 Constituency.	   Thirteen       candidates  had offered themselves for election	either	for       the general or the reserved seat at the said election.	Mr.       Brijendralal  Gupta, appellant I and Thakur Raghubir  Singh,       appellant 2, were the Congress candidates while	respondents       1  and  7  had been adopted by the  Praja  Socialist  Party,       respondent  4  and  one Sadhuram by the Jan  Sangh  and	the       remaining   candidates  had  filed  their   nominations	 as       independent  candidates.	 Udebhan Tiwari, respondent 5,	bad       omitted	to  make the declaration regarding his age  in	his       nomination paper.  This defect was discovered at the time of       the  scrutiny of the nomination papers on February 1,  1957,       and  as	a result his nomination paper was rejected  by	the       returning  officer.  Subsequently respondent 6 withdrew	his       candidature with the result that eleven candidates took part       in the contest.	After the polling took place and the  votes       secured by the contesting candidates were counted appellants       1  and 2 were declared duly elected to the General  and	the       Reserved	   seat	  respectively.	  Thereupon    Jwalaprasad,       respondent 1, filed an election petition under s. 81 of	the       Act  challenging the election of the appellants	on  several       grounds, one of which was that the nomination of	 respondent       5 had been improperly rejected.	He, therefore, played  that       the  election of the appellants should be declared void	and       he  himself should be declared as having been duly  elected.       This  election  petition	 was made over	for  trial  to	the       Election Tribunal, Raigarh.       On  the	contentions  raised by the parties  before  it	the       Election	 Tribunal framed as many as 49 issues; but  in	the       present	appeal	we are concerned with only  three  of  them       which  related  to  the	rejection  of  the  nomination	 of       respondent  5.  These  three issues  were  (1)  whether	the       nomination  paper  of respondent 5 was  improperly  rejected       because of the omission to       653       fill in the age in the prescribed column, (2) whether at the       time of the scrutiny respondent 5 was personally present and       brought to the notice of the returning officer that his	age       was above 25 and the omission is simply accidental, and	(3)       if  so, whether the rejection of the said  nomination  paper       has  rendered  the whole election void ab  initio  under	 s.       100(1)(c)  of the Act.  The Tribunal held that respondent  5       did  not	 make  any attempt to rectify  the  defect  in	the       nomination  paper, that the returning officer could  not	 in       law  have allowed respondent 5 to remedy the said defect	 at       the  stage of the scrutiny of the nomination, and  that	the       error  in  the  nomination was a	 defect	 of  a	substantial       character  with	the  result  that  the	rejection  of	the       nomination  paper was according to the Tribunal proper.	 In       accordance  with these findings the Tribunal  dismissed	the       election petition.       Respondent  1 then preferred an appeal against the  decision       of  the Tribunal before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh	 at       Jabalpur	 under	s.  116A of the Act.  The  High	 Court	has       allowed the appeal; it has held that respondent 5 had at the       time of the scrutiny offered to supply the omission but	the       returning  officer refused to allow him to do so,  that	the       returning officer was bound to make a summary enquiry before       rejecting respondent 5's nomination paper, and that the non-       mention of the age in the nomination paper was not a  defect       of  a substantial character.  In consequence,  according	 to       the  High Court, the rejection of respondent 5's	 nomination       paper was improper; that is why the High Court set aside the       election	 of the appellants under s. 100(1)(c) of  the  Act.       It  is  against	this decision of the High  Court  that	the       appellants have come to this Court by special leave.       The  learned counsel for the appellants wanted to  challenge       the  correctness of the finding recorded by the	High  Court       that  respondent	 5  offered to correct the  defect  in	his       nomination  paper  by supplying evidence about his  age	and       that  the  returning  officer had refused  to  give  him	 an       opportunity to do so.  It is true that on this question	the       Tribunal had found in favour of the appellants; but, in	our       opinion,	 it  was  open to the High Court  to  consider	the       correctness or the       85       654       propriety of the said finding because the jurisdiction a	 of       the  High Court under s. 116A of the Act is wide enough	and       is  not	confined to questions of law.  It  has	been  urged       before us that the decision on this Darrow question of  fact       depends	upon the appreciation of oral evidence led  by	the       parties,	 and it was suggested that the High Court  was	not       justified in interfering with the conclusion of the Tribunal       on  that point.	We are not impressed by this argument.	 We       would, therefore, deal with the present appeal on the  basis       that respondent 5 attempted to rectify the omission but	was       not  allowed to do so by the returning officer.	 Therefore,       if  the defect in the nomination paper of respondent  5	was       not  of	a substantial character the High  Court's  decision       would be right on the other hand, if the said defect is of a       substantial  character then the rejection of respondent	5's       nomination   paper  would  be  proper  and  the	fact   that       respondent  5 was not allowed an opportunity to rectify	the       said omission would make no difference in law.  That is	how       the  only point which calls for our decision is whether	the       omission, in question is a substantial defect under 36(4) of       the Act.       Before dealing with this question it is relevant to refer to       ss.  33,	 34 and read s. 36.  Section 33	 provides  for	the       presentation  of	 the nomination paper  and  prescribes	the       requirements  for  a  valid nomination.	 Section  33(1)	 is       important  for our purpose.  It provides that on	 or  before       the  date appointed under el. (a) of IS. 30  each  candidate       shall,  either  in person or by his  proposer,  between	the       hours of eleven o'clock in the forenoon and three o'clock in       the afternoon deliver to the returning officer at the  place       specified in this behalf in the notice issued under s. 31  a       nomination paper completed in the prescribed form and signed       by  the candidate and by an elector of the  constituency	 as       proposer.   Section 33(2) lays down that a  candidate  shall       not  be	deemed	to  be qualified to be	chosen	to  fill  a       reserved	 seat  unless  his  nomination	paper  contains	  a       declaration  prescribed by it.  Sub-section (3)	deals  with       the case of a candidate who, having held any office referred       to  in el. (f) of s. 71, hag been dismissed and a period	 of       five years has not elapsed since the       655       dismissal, and lays down that the nomination paper of such a       person  shall be accompanied by a certificate as	 specified.       Sub-section  (4)	 requires  that on the	presentation  of  a       nomination paper the returning officer shall satisfy himself       that  the names and electoral roll numbers of the  candidate       and his proposer as entered in the nomination paper are	the       same  as those entered in the electoral rolls.  The  proviso       to this subsection requires the returning officer to  permit       any  clerical or technical error in the nomination paper	 in       regard  to  the said names or numbers to be  corrected,	and       where  necessary,  it  authorises him  to  direct  that	any       clerical	 or  printing  error in the  said  entry  shall	 be       overlooked.   We	 are not concerned with the  remaining	two       sub-sections  of s. 33.	Section 34 deals with deposits	and       provides	 that  a  candidate shall not  deemed  to  be  duly       nominated  for  election	 from  a  constituency	unless	 he       deposits or causes to be deposited the amounts as prescribed       in  cls.	 (a),  (b)  and (c).  Section  36  deals  with	the       scrutiny of nomination&, authorises the returning officer to       hold  an enquiry,, ,prescribes the procedure to be  followed       by  him in holding such an enquiry, required him to  endorse       his  decisions on the points raised in the scrutiny, and	 to       prepare	a list of validly nominated candidates that  is	 to       say,  whose nominations have been found valid, and to  affix       it to his notice board.	Section 36(1) provides that on	the       date fixed for the scrutiny of nominations under s. 30,	the       candidates and the other persons specified in it may  attend       at such time and place as the returning officer may appoint,       and  the	 returning officer shall give them  all	 reasonable       facilities  for	examining  the	nomination  papers  of	all       candidates which have been delivered within the time and	 in       the  manner laid down in s. 33.	Sub-section (2) deals  with       the  examination	 of  nomination	 papers	 by  the  returning       officer, and it provides that the said officer shall  decide       all objections which may be made to any nomination, and may,       either  on  such objection or on his own motion	after  such       summary enquiry, if any, as he thinks necessary, reject	any       nomination  on  any of the-following grounds,-(a)  that	the       candidate  either  is not qualified or is  disqualified	for       being chosen to till       656       the  seat under any of the following provisions that may	 be       applicable,  viz., Arts. 84, 102, 173 and 19 1, and Part	 11       of  this	 Act, (b) that there has been a failure	 to  comply       with  any of the provisions of section 33 or section 34,	 or       (c)  that the signature of the candidate or the proposer	 on       the  nomination paper is not genuine.  Sub-section (4)  lays       down  that  the	returning  officer  shall  not	reject	any       nomination paper on the ground of any defect which is not of       a  substantial  character.  Sub-section (5)  prescribes	the       procedure for the scrutiny, and subs. (6) requires that	the       returning officer shall endorse on each nomination paper his       decision	 accepting  or rejecting the same and  in  case	 of       rejection  he shall record in writing a brief  statement	 of       his  reasons for such rejection.	 Sub-section  (7)  provides       that for the purpose of this section a certified copy of	 an       entry in the electoral roll for the time being in force of a       constituency  shall be conclusive evidence of the fact  that       the person referred to in that entry is an elector for  that       constituency  unless  it is proved that he is subject  to  a       disqualification mentioned in s. 16 of the Representation of       the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950).  Sub'section (8) requires       the returning officer to prepare a list of validly nominated       candidates and affix it to his notice board.       It is clear that s. 33 requires that a nomination paper must       be  completed  in  the prescribed form  and  signed  by	the       candidate  and  by  the	elector	 of  the  constituency	 as       proposer.   The form prescribed in that behalf is  Form	No.       2B.   The  relevant  portion of the  prescribed	form  reads       thus:-       Form 2B.       Nomination Paper       (See rule 4)       Election to the Legislative Assembly of.........(State)       (To be filled in by the proposer)       I hereby nominate................as a candidate for election       from the..................  Assembly Constituency.       1.   Full name of proposer..................       2.   Electoral roll number of proposer............       3.   Name of candidate's ++father/husband..............       4.   Full postal address of candidate...........       5.   Electoral roll number of candidate...........       Date ......			 Signature of proposer.657	  (To be filled by the candidate)1, the above-mentioned candidate, assent to this  nominationand hereby declare-(a)  that I have completed............. years of age;(b)  that  the	symbols	 I  have  chosen  are  in  order  ofpreference(i)   ...............................(ii)  ...............................	and(iii) ...............................Date	     Signature of candidate.	Strike out one of the alternatives as necessary.It  is common ground that the first part of  the  nominationpaper which has to be filled in by the proposer was in orderand  the second part was duly 'signed by the  candidate	 butfailed to declare his age as prescribed by (a) above.	Whenthe returning officer noticed this omission he made an orderrejecting respondent 5'S nomination.  The brief statement ofreasons which the returning officer has recorded shows	thathe held that the failure of respondent 5 to declare his	 agecannot be treated as clerical or technical error, but is  ofa  substantial	nature	since  declaration  as	to  age	 wasnecessary  in order to entitle a candidate to  be  qualifiedunder  Art. 173 of the Constitution.  The returning  officerhas  also  noted  that he took the objection  suo  moto	 andrejected the nomination paper of respondent 5. Thus there isno  doubt  that respondent 5's omitted to  specify  his	 agebefore he signed his nomination paper and in that sense	 hisnomination  paper has not been completed in  the  prescribedform.  The question which arises for our decision is whetherrespondent   5's  omission  to	specify	 his  age   in	 hisnomination paper amounts to a defect, and if yes,whether  itis a defect of a substantial character under s.	  36(4)	  ofthe Act.On  behalf of the appellants it has been conceded before  usthat  the  omission  in	 question  undoubtedly	 constitutesfailure to comply with the provisions of A.  33,  and so  itattracts the provisions of s. 36(2)(b) of the Act, but it isurged  that  the said omission does not amount to  a  defectunder s. 36(4) much less a defect which is of a	 substantialcharacter.  The argument is658that s. 36(4) can apply only to such cases of non-compliancewith  s. 33 which can be said to amount to defects  and	 notothers,	 and since the omission in question is not a  defectthere is no scope for invoking the provisions of that,	sub-section.   In  support of this argument	 reliance  has	beenplaced	on two English decisions.  In The Queen	 v.  Tugwell(1)  Cockburn, C. J., held that the 9 votes  whose  validitywas  impeached	had to be struck off because  they  had	 notcomplied with s. 32 of the Municipal Corporation Act (5 &  6Wm.  4,	 c. 76) and so s. 142 could not cure  their  defect.The  voting papers in question contained the Christian	nameand the surname of the candidate and his place of abode	 andnothing	 more, whereas s. 32 required that they should	alsocontain	 the description of the candidate.  In other  words,there  was  a  total  omission	to  supply  the	 descriptionrequired  by  s. 32.  It was, however, urged that  the	saidomission should be treated as inaccurate description, and sothe validity of the impugned votes should be sustained unders.  142	 which	provides, inter	 alia,	that  no  inaccuratedescription of any person shall hinder the full operation ofthe  Act  in  respect  of  such	 person	 provided  that	 thedescription  of	 such  person  is such	as  to	be  commonlyunderstood.  Cockburn, C. J., held that in the cases of	 the9  votes  in  question	they  were  not	 dealing  with	 theinaccurate  description but a total omission of	 descriptionwhich is one of the things required by s. 32, and so s.	 142was  inapplicable.  It appears that Lush,J.,  and  Hannen,J.agreed	with the conclusion of the Chief Justice  with	somehesitation.   To the same effect is the decision in  Baldwinv.  Ellis  (2). In that case the omission to  state  in	 thenomination paper the name of the parish for which the personnominated  was qualified as a local government	elector	 washeld to be non compliance with the requirements of rule 4 ofthe  Rural  District Councillors Election Order,  1898,	 andthat  the said omission could not be cured by s. 13  of	 theBallot Act of 1872 since that section applied only to  caseswhere  there had been a wrongful admission of  a  nominationpaper  and  not to those where a nomination paper  had	beenrejected.  It was also(1) (1868) 3 Q.B 704(2) (1929) 1 K.B 273.650held  that  the omission in question cannot  be	 treated  asinaccurate description of the person nominate within rule 13of the Order of 1898 but was a clear non-compliance with therequirements of rule 4 of that Order and as such it was	 notcured  by rule 33.  It would thus be seen that in  both	 thedecisions the question as to whether the particular omissionamounted  to  an inaccurate description was decided  in	 thelight of the specific provision of the statute, and so	theycannot	sustain	 the  broad argument that  in  no  case	 canomission  be treated as a defect.  We may also	incidentallypoint out that Halsbury has read these decisions in the sameway (3).On  the	 other	hand the dictionary meaning of	the  word  "defect"	 is  "lack  or absence	of  something  essential  tocompleteness", and in that sense omission to specify the agecall  and  would  be treated as a  defect  under  s.  36(4).Defect	also means " a flaw or a fault or an  imperfection";but whether or not it includes an omission must	 necessarilydepend	upon the context in which the word is used.  In	 ouropinion,   having  regard  to  the  context  it	  would	  beunreasonable to hold that the word " defect " under s. 36(4)excludes  all  cases  of omission  to  specify	the  detailsprescribed by the statute in the nomination paper.  We	mustaccordingly   reject  the  appellants'	argument  that	 theomission in question is not a defect under s. 36(4).The  next question which we must consider is whether in	 thecase of such an omission it was obligatory on the  returningofficer	 to hold an enquiry under s. 36(2) of the Act.	 TheHigh Court has held that the returning officer ought to haveheld  an  enquiry under s. 36(2)(a)  and  satisfied  himselfwhether	 or not respondent 5 was eligible to stand  for	 theelection.   In	our opinion the High Court was in  error  incoming	to  this  conclusion.  If the  nomination  paper  ofrespondent 5 did not comply with the provisions of s. 33 thecase  fell squarely under s. 36(2)(b) and the only  questionwhich can arise in such a case is whether or not the  defectarising from the failure to comply with the provisions of s.33  is of a substantial character or not.  If the defect  isnot of a substantial(3)  Halsbury's	 'Laws	of  England",  Vol.  14,  3rd	Ed.,paragraphs foot-note (a) on p. 95.660character  the	returning  officer  shall  not	reject	 thenomination  paper on the ground of the said defect;  if,  onthe other hand, the defect is of a substantial character thereturning officer has to reject the nomination paper on	 theground	of  the	 said  defect, That is	the  effect  of	 theprovisions of s. 36(2)(b) and (4) read together.  An enquirywhich is necessary under s. 36(2)(a) may and can be held forinstance  in cases where the nomination paper shows the	 ageof  the	 candidate as above 25, but an	objection  has	beenraised-that  in fact he is below 25 and as such	 incompetentto stand for election under Art. 173 of the Constitution; inother  words, the impugned nomination has complied with	 theprovisions  of	s.  33 and as such does Dot  fall  under  s.36(2)(b) at all, nevertheless the validity of the nominationcan  be challenged on the ground that, in fact Art.  173  isnot  complied with.  Cases falling under this class must  bedistinguished-from cases falling under s. 36(2)(b).  In	 thelatter	class  of  cases  the failure  to  comply  with	 theprovisions of s. 33 being established there is no scope	 forany  enquiry  under  s. 36(2) (a).  Once  the  alleged	non-compliance  is proved, the defective nomination falls to  beaccepted  or  rejected	according as the  defect  is  of  anunsubstantial or of a substantial character.  Therefore,  itis  not right to hold that even after the returning  officerwas  satisfied that the omission to specify his	 age  showedthat  the nomination paper of respondent 5 had not  compliedwith the provisions of s.     33, he should still have	heldan enquiry under s. 36(2)  (a).	  Non- compliance  with	 theprovisions of s.    33 itself would justify the rejection ofthe  nomination	 paper provided of course  that	 the  defectarising	 from  the  non-compliance  in	question  is  of   asubstantial character.That  takes us to the question as to whether the failure  tospecify the age in the nomination paper amounts to a  defectof a substantial character under s. 36(4) or not.  There  islittle	doubt that the age of the candidate is as  importantas  his identity, and in requiring the candidate to  specifyhis age the prescribed form has given a place of  importanceto the declaration about the candidate's age.  Just as the661nomination  paper must show the full name of  the  candidateand  his electoral roll number, and just as  the  nominationpaper  must  be	 duly signed by the candidate,	so  must  itcontain the declaration by the candidate about his age.	  Itis  significant	 that  the statement about the	age  of	 thecandidate is required to be made by the candidate above	 hissignature and is substantially treated as his declaration inthat  behalf.  That being the requirement of the  prescribednomination form it is difficult to hold that the failure  tospecify the age does not amount to a defect of a substantialcharacter.   The  prima facie eligibility of the  person  tostand  as  a candidate which depends under Art. 173  of	 theConstitution, inter alia, on his having completed the age of25  years  is an important matter, and it is in	 respect  ofsuch  an important matter that the prescribed form  requiresthe candidate to make the declaration.	It would, we  think,be unreasonable to hold that the failure to make a  declara-tion  on  such	an  important  matter  is  a  defect  of  anunsubstantial character.  In this connection, it is relevantto refer to the fact that the declaration as to the  symbolswhich	the   prescribed  form	of  the	  nomination   paperrequires  the candidate to make is by the proviso to rule  5given a subsidiary place.  The proviso to rule 5 shows	thatany  non-compliance with the provisions of sub-rule  (2)  ofrule  5 shall not be deemed to be a defect of a	 substantialcharacter within the meaning of s. 36, sub-s. (4).  In otherwords, this proviso seems to suggest that, according to	 therule  making authority, failure to comply with the  require-ments as to the declaration of symbols as specified in	rule5,  sub-rule (2), would have been treated as a defect, of  asubstantial  character;	 that is why the  proviso  expresslyprovides to the contrary.  This would incidentally show thatthe  failure  to specify the age can. not be  treated  as  adefect of an unsubstantial character.On  behalf  of the respondents it has, however,	 been  urgedbefore us that the returning officer should not be astute toreject the nomination papers on technical grounds, and	thatin the present case the returning officer should have lookedat the electoral roll and satisfied himself that  respondent5 was duly qualified 86662to stand for the election.  His age is 48 and it was   shownin  the	 electoral  roll against his name.  It	was  thus  asimple matter of looking at the electoral roll be  satisfiedthat the omission to specify the age in the nomination	formwas  no more than a technical breach of the requirements  ofs.  33.	 We are not impressed by this argument.	 As we	havealready	 observed,  in cases of non-compliance	with  s.  33which attract the provisions of s. 36(2)(b), there would  beno occasion to hold an enquiry under s. 36(2)(a).  The	onlypoint to consider in such cases would be whether the defectsin question are substantial or not; and so the argument thatthe returning officer could have easily verified the age  ofrespondent 5 is not really material in construing s. 36(4).In this connection it is relevant to consider the effect  ofthe  presumption which is raised under s. 36(7) of  the	 Actand its effect.	 As we have already noticed, under s.  36(7)a certified copy of the entry in the electoral roll shall beconclusive evidence of the fact that the person referred  toin  that entry is an elector for that constituency ; but  itmust  be remembered that this presumption is raised for	 thepurposes of this section and it is made expressly subject tothe  last  clause of this subsection, that is  to  say,	 thepresumption can arise unless it is proved that the person inquestion  is  subject to any of the  disqualifications	men-tioned	in  s.	16  of the Act of  1950.   The	use  of	 theadjective  "  conclusive " which qualifies"  evidence  "  istechnically  inappropriate because the	presumption  arisingfrom  the  production of the certified copy is by  no  meansconclusive.It  is	also significant that in regard	 to  the  conclusivecharacter of the relevant evidence the material provision asit stood originally has been subsequently amended by Act  27of  1956.   Originally the provision was that  the  relevantentry  shall  be  conclusive evidence of the  right  of	 anyelector	 named	in that entry to stand for  election  or  tosubscribe  the	nomination paper as the case  may  be.	 TheLegislature   apparently   thought  that   the	 presumptionauthorised  by these words was unduly wide, and so,  by	 theamendment, the prima facie and rebuttable presumption is nowlimited			    663to the capacity of the person concerned to be treated as  anelector	 and nothing more, and that too unless it is  provedthat  he suffers from any disqualification' mentioned in  s.16.   Section  16  to which reference  has  thus  been	madeprescribes   disqualifications	 for  registration   in	  anelectoral roll under three heads,-(a) that the person is nota  citizen  of	India, (b) that he is of  unsound  mind	 andstands so declared by a competent court, or (c) is  for	 thetime being disqualified from voting under the provisions  ofany law relating to corrupt and illegal practices and  otheroffences in connection with elections.	Thus the position isthat  the certified copy of the relevant entry	would  primafacie  show that the person concerned is not subject to	 anyof   the  said	disqualifications,  but	 this  prima   faciepresumption can be rebutted by evidence to the contrary.There  is  yet	another	 aspect	 of  this  matter  to  whichreference  may	be made.  The rebuttable  presumption  whicharises	under  s. 36(7) merely refers to the status  of	 theperson	concerned as an elector.  Let us consider what	thispresumption means.  An elector under s. 2, sub-s.1, (e),  ofthe Act in relation to a constituency means " a person whosename  is entered in the electoral roll of that	constituencyfor the time being in force and who is not subject to any ofthe  disqualifications	mentioned  in s. 16 of	the  Act  of1950".That  takes us to the conditions prescribed by s. 19 of	 theAct of 1950 for registration in the electoral roll.  Section19 provides that subject to the foregoing provisions of PartIII of the said Act every person who, on the qualifying date(a) is not less than 21 years of age, and (b) is  ordinarilyresident  is  a	 constituency,	shall  be  entitled  to	  beregistered  in	the electoral roll  for	 that  constituency.Thus when a presumption is raised under s. 36(7) it may meanprima  facie that the person concerned is not less  than  21years	of   age  and  is  ordinarily	resident   in	thatconstituency;  but for the validity of the nomination  paperit  has	 to be proved that the candidate  has  completed  25years of age.  Art. 173 of the Constitution which prescribesthe  qualification  for	 membership  of	 State	 Legislatureprovides664that  a person shall not be qualified in that behalf  unlesshe (a) is a citizen of India, (b) is, in the case of a	seatin the Legislative Assembly, not less than 25 years of	age,and  (c)  possesses  such other	 qualifications	 as  may  beprescribed  in	that  behalf by or under  any  law  made  byParliament.   Confining ourselves to the  requirement  aboutage it is obvious that the presumption raised under s. 36(7)would  not be enough to justify the plea about	validity  ofthe nomination paper because the said presumption only tendsto show that the person concerned has completed 21 years  ofage.It	is clear that in regard to persons between 21 to  25years  of  age	their  names  would  be	 registered  in	 theelectoral  and	so  they  would	 be  electors  if  otherwisequalified  and yet they would not be entitled to  stand	 forelection  to  the State Legislature.  Thus it would  not  becorrect to assume that a reference to the certified copy  ofthe electoral roll would in every case decisively show	thatthe  age of the candidate satisfied the test  prescribed  byArt.   173  of	the  Constitution;  in	other	words,	 therequirement  about  the	 completion of 25 years	 of  age  isoutside the presumption under s. 36(7), and that must be thereason why the prescribed nomination form requires that	 thecandidate  in signing the said form must make a	 declarationabout  his age.	 This consideration supports our  conclusionthat the declaration about the age is a matter of importanceand  failure to comply with the said requirement  cannot  betreated as a defect of an unsubstantial character.It now remains to consider some of the decisions which	werecited before us by the learned counsel for both the parties.In  Rattan  Anmol Singh v. Atma Ram(1) this Court  has	heldthat  the attestation required in the case of proposers	 andseconders  who	are not able to write their names is  not  atechnical  or  unsubstantial matter, and so the	 failure  tocomply with the said requirement would amount to a defect ofa  substantial character.  The appellants contend, and	withsome force, that this decision supports their case that likethe  attestation  required  in the  case  of  an  illiterateproposer or seconder the declaration as to the(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R 481,665age of the candidate is a matter of substantial	 importance,and failure to comply with the requirement of the prescribedform  in that behalf cannot be treated as a defect which  isnot of a substantial character.	 In Pranlal Thakorlal Munshiv.  Indubhai  Bhailabhai Amin (1),  the	 Election  Tribunal,Baroda,	 has  held  that the omission by  the  candidate  tomention	 his  age in the nomination paper is a defect  of  asubstantial character and that his nomination paper had beenproperly  rejected  on that account.   The  appellants	havenaturally relied on this decision in support of their  case.The  appellants have then referred us to  certain  decisionswhere  the  effect of the failure to specify  the  electoralroll number or other particulars has been considered, and ithas  been  held that the failure in question  amounts  to  asubstantial defect under s. 36(4) of the Act. (Vide: Rup Lalv.  Jugraj  Singh  (2  ); Brij	Sundar	Sharma	v.  ElectionTribunal,   Jaipur  (3	);  Balasubrahmanyan   v.   ElectionTribunal, Vellore (4); and Ramayan Shukla v. Rajendra PrasadSingh  (5).  By parity of reasoning the	 appellants  contendthat  the  failure  to	mention the  age  is  undoubtedly  asubstantial  defect.  It is unnecessary for us	to  considerthe merits of these decisions.On  the	 other	hand  the respondents  have  relied  on	 thedecision of this Court in the case of Durga Shankar Mehta v.Thakur	Raghuraj  Singh	 (6).  Indeed it  appears  from	 thejudgment  of the High Court under appeal that in  coming  toits  decision  the  High Court	was  influenced	 by  certainobservations  made  by	Mukherjea, J., as he  then  was,  indealing	 with the case of Durga Shankar (6).  In  that	casethe  validity of the election of Vasant Rao,  respondent  2,was  challenged before the Election Tribunal on	 the  groundthat he was not eligible to stand for election since at	 allmaterial  times he was under 25 years of age.  It was,	how-ever, clear that no objection was taken before the returningofficer in respect of the nomination paper of respondent  2,and the said nomination paper had  been	    accepted	  bythere turning officer. The question(1) (1952) 1 E.L.R. 182.(2) (1958) 15 E.L.R 484.(3) (1956) 12 E.L.R. 216.(4) (1953) 7 E.L.R. 496.(5) (1958) 16 E.L.R. 491.(6) [1955] S.C.R. 267.666which	was  raised  before  this  Court  was  whether	 theacceptance of respondent 2's nomination paper could be	saidto  be	improper, and this Court held  that  the  acceptancewould  have been improper if the want of  qualification	 wasapparent on the electoral roll itself or on the face of	 thenomination  paper and the returning officer overlooked	thatdefect or if any objection was raised and enquiry made as tothe  absence  of  qualification in  the	 candidate  and	 thereturning  officer  came  to the  wrong	 conclusion  on	 thematerials placed before him.  Since neither of these  thingshad  happened  in  that	 case,	the  Court  held  that	 theacceptance  must be deemed to be a proper acceptance.	Evenso  it	was  observed that the validity	 of  respondent	 2'selection could be challenged under s. 100(2)(c) of the	Act.With  that  aspect  of	the  matter  we	 are,  however,	 notconcerned  in  the present appeal.  It would thus  be  clearthat  in  the case of Durga Shankar (1) this  Court  had  nooccasion to consider the scope and effect of s. 36(2Xb)	 and(4)  of the Act at all, and so the observations made in	 thejudgment   on  which  reliance	had  been  placed   by	 therespondents in support of their plea that an enquiry  shouldhave  been held in the present case do not really  help	 us.The  said  observations must, with respect, be read  in	 thecontext of the dispute which was raised before this Court inthat  case.   The  respondents have  also  relied  upon	 thedecision of this Court in Pratap Singh v. Shri Krishna Gupta(2).   In  that case this Court has no doubt  observed	thatcourts should not adopt a technical attitude in dealing withelection  matters and that " it is the substance  that	mustcount and it must take precedence over mere form  ;  but  inappreciating   the  effect  of	these  observations  it	  isnecessary to bear in mind the points which   arose	 fordecision in that case.	It was the failure of the  candidateto  mention his occupation as required by rule 9  (1)(i)  onwhich  the validity of his nomination was impeached, and  indealing	 with  that  point this Court had  to  consider	 theeffect of s. 23 of the C. P. and Berar Municipalities Act, 2of 1922, which provided that anything done or any proceedingtaken under the said Act shall not be questioned on account(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 267(2) A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 140, 141,667of  any defect or irregularity not affecting the  merits  ofthe case.  So the short point which the Court had to  decidewas  whether the defect in the nomination form affected	 themerits of the case, and it held that there was no doubt thatthe  said failure, could riot possibly affect the merits  ofthe case.  It was in the context of this legal position thatthe  Court disapproved of the technical attitude adopted  bythe High Court in dealing with the question of the  validityof  the	 impugned nomination.  It is  significant,  however,that even in that case the Court has referred with  approvalto  its earlier decision in the case of Rattan	Ammol  Singh(1).   There is another decision of this Court on which	 therespondents have relied.  That is the case of Karnail  Singhv.  Election Tribunal, Hissar (2).  It appears that in	thatcase the nomination paper of Sher Singh had been rejected onthe ground that column 8 in the nomination form was not dulyfilled up.  The defect to which objection was taken was thatthe  name of the sub-division had not been stated under	 therelevant columns, though on evidence it was quite clear thatthere  was no defect in identifying the candidate  and	thatthe  candidate himself pointed out to the returning  officerthe entry of his name in the electoral roll, and this  Courtheld  that the defect in question was purely  technical	 andthat  the Tribunal was perfectly right in holding  that	 thenomination  paper  had	been  improperly  rejected.   It  isdifficult   to	see  how  this	decision  can	assist	 therespondents  at	 all.  As we have already  pointed  out	 theomission  to  make a declaration about the age	is,  in	 ouropinion,   an  omission	 to  comply  with  the	 substantialrequirement prescribed by the form and it cannot be comparedwith the omission with which this Court was concerned in thecase of Karnail Singh (2).There  is  one more decision on which the  respondents	haverelied.	 In Pt.	 Charanjit Lal Ram Sarup v. Lahri Singh	 RamNarain	(3)  the Punjab High Court was dealing with  a	casewhere the nomination paper of a candidate had been  rejectednot only on account of the omission to state the age in	 thenomination  paper but also for the reason that	no  evidencewas led by the(1) [1955) 1 S.C.R. 481.  (2) (1954) 10 E.L.R. 189.(3) A.I.R, 1958 Punj. 433.668candidate  concerned or by his representatives or agents  toshow  that the candidate had completed his 25  years  thoughthe returning officer had directed that such evidence shouldbe  led.  It appears that the Election Tribunal	 also  foundthat  on  the  evidence	 adduced  before  it  could  not  bedetermined with any amount of certainty as to whether at thetime of filing the nomination paper Mr. Pirthi,the candidatein  question, was above or below 25 years of age.   That  iswhy  it was held that the rejection of the nomination  papercould  not be said to be improper.  One of the points  urgedbefore the Punjab High Court was that the omission to  statethe age was not a defect of a substantial character but	 theHigh  Court did not feel called upon to give a firm  findingon  this point, because in the case before it there was	 notonly  the impugned omission but there was also	no  materialbefore the returning officer whereby that omission could  bemade  good.   We ought, however, to add that though  on	 thefacts proved in that case the election petition should	havebeen dealt with under s. 36(2)(b) and (4) it was  apparentlyconsidered as falling under s. 36(2)(a) and that, as we havealready	 pointed  out,	is  not	 the  true  legal  position.Besides	 there are certain general observations made in	 thejudgment  which	 would	indicate that  the  High  Court	 wasinclined to hold that the defect arising from the failure todeclare	 the  age  in  the nomination  form  was  not  of  asubstantial character.	It is unnecessary to add that  theseobservations  do  not correctly represent the effect  of  s.36(2)(b) and s. 36(4) of the Act.In  the	 result the appeal is allowed, the decision  of	 theHigh  Court is set aside and that of the  Tribunal  restoredwith costs throughout.			  Appeal allowed.669