PETITIONER:RAJPUTANA AGENCIES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF I. T., BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:09/10/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  265		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 142 CITATOR INFO : D	    1960 SC1016	 (18) D	    1966 SC 279	 (4)ACT:       Income-tax-Assessment of company-Declaration of dividend	 in       excess of statutory limit-Additional income-tax-Computation"       Rate  applicable	 to  the total income  of  the	company	 ",       Meaning of --Indian Finance Act, 1951, First Schedule  Para.       B, proviso (ii), explanation (ii)(b).HEADNOTE:The  assessee, a private limited company in Saurashtra,	 wasassessed  for the assessment year 1952-53 on a total  incomeof Rs. 26,385.	It was assessable at the rate of four  annasper rupee but in view of the provisions of the Part B States(Taxation Concession) Order, 1950, it was actually  assessedat  the	 rate of sixteen pies per rupee.  The  assessee	 haddeclared dividend of Rs. 30,000 out of which Rs. 15,159	 wasfound  to be excess dividend.  On this excess  dividend	 theassessee  was  liable to pay additional income-tax  and	 thedispute	 was  regarding	 the rate at which  tax	 was  to  becomputed.   Clause (ii) of the proviso to para.	 B of  Part.I  of  the First Schedule to the Finance  Act,	1951,  whichapplied to the case, provided that the additional income-taxwas to be equal to the sum by which the aggregate amount  ofincome-tax actually borne by the excess amount fell short ofthe amount Calculated at the rate of five annas per rupee onthe  excess  dividend.	Sub-clause (b) of cl.  (ii)  to	 thesecond explanation to proviso to para.	B provided that	 theaggregate amount of income-tax actually borne by the  excessdividend was to be determined at the rate applicable to	 thetotal  income of the company.  The assessee  contended	thatthe words 'at the rate applicable to the total income of thecompany'  meant the rate prescribed by para. 8 of  the	Act,i.e.  four annas per rupee, and not the rate as	 reduced  bythe  Order at which the income-tax had actually and in	factbeen  levied  and  that consequently it was  liable  to	 payadditional income-tax on the excess dividend at the rate  ofone anna per rupee only.Held,  that  the expression 'rate applicable  to  the  totalincome of -the company' meant the rate actually applied	 andthat the assessee was rightly charged at the rate of  forty-four  pies  per rupee being the rate by which  the  rate  atwhich  the assessee was actually assessed fell short of	 therate  of five annas per rupee.	The clause referred  to	 thespecific  or  definite	rate which  -was  determined  to  beapplicable  to	the taxable income of the company  for	thatspecific year and not to the rate prescribed by the Act	 forthe  relevant  year  generally in reference  to	 incomes  ofcompanies.143Elphinstone  Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. v.  Commis-sioner of Income-tax, Bombay City, [1955] 28 I.T.R. 81, con-sidered.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 91 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated March 29, 1956,  ofthe Saurashtra High Court at Rajkot in Civil Reference No. Iof 1955.Shankarlal G. Bajaj and P. C. Aggarwal, for the appellant.K.   N.	 Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D.	 Gupta,	 forthe respondent.1958.  October 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-This appeal arises from  the  assessmentproceedings taken against the appellant, Rajputana  AgenciesLtd., Lavanpur, for its income for the assessment year 1952-53,  the accounting period being the  corresponding  MarwadiYear  ending in October, 1951.	The appellant is a'  privatelimited company and it was assessed to income-tax and super-tax  by	 the Income-tax Officer, Morvi Circle, Morvi,  on  atotal  income  of Rs. 26,385.  The  appellant  had  declareddividend  of Rs. 30,000.  The Income-tax Officer  held	thatout  of the said amount of dividend, Rs. 15,159	 was  excessdividend.   On this basis the Income-tax Officer  determinedthe  additional income-tax payable by the appellant  at	 therate  of  forty-four  pies in a rupee  on  the	said  excessdividend.    The  additional  income-tax  payable   by	 theappellant  in  that behalf was computed at  Rs.	 3,473-15-0.This order was passed on November 25, 1952.The appellant filed an appeal against this order before	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax	 at  Rajkot.The appellate authority determined the additional income-taxpayable	 by  the appellant at Rs. 2,084-12-0 on	 August	 29,1953.  An appeal was preferred by the appellant against	 theappellate  order before the Income-tax	Appellate  Tribunal,Bombay, but the appellate tribunal confirmed the order underappeal on November 27, 1954.  The144appellant  then moved the appellate tribunal under s.  66(1)of  the	 Income-tax Act and the appellate tribunal,  by	 itsorder  passed on April 25, 1955, referred two  questions  tothe  High  Court  at Saurashtra for  its  opinion.   In	 thepresent	 appeal,  we are concerned with ,the second  of	 thesaid two questions.  This question as framed by the tribunalwas: Whether the expression " at the rate applicable to	 thetotal income of the company " as appearing in sub-cl. (b) ofel. (ii) to the second explanation to proviso to paragraph Bof  Part I of the First Schedule to the Indian Finance	Act,1952,  means the rate at which a company's total  income  isactually  assessed or the rate prescribed by the  respectiveFinance	 Act  without taking into consideration	 the  rebateallowed	 in  the  respective years in  accordance  with	 theprovisions  of the Part ' B ' States (Taxation	Concessions)Order,	1950 (hereinafter called the Order).  Section  2  ofthe Finance Act, 1952, provides that the provisions of s.  2of,  and the First Schedule to the Finance Act, 1951,  shallapply  in  relation  to income-tax  and	 super-tax  for	 thefinancial  year	 1952-53 as they apply in  relation  to	 theincome-tax and super-tax for the financial year 1951-52 withthe  modification  that,  in the  said	provisions  for	 thefigures 1950, 1951 and 1952 wherever they occur, the figures1951, 1952 and 1953 shall be respectively substituted ;	 andso  in	the present case we are really	concerned  with	 thematerial provisions of the Finance Act, 1951 (herein.  aftercalled the Act).By its judgment delivered on March 29, 1956, the High  Courtanswered  this question against the appellant and held	thatthe expression " at the rate applicable to the total  incomeof the company " means the rate at which the company's totalincome is actually assessed.  The appellant then applied forand  obtained a certificate from the High Court	 under	Art.133(1)(c)  of  the Constitution read with s. 66A(2)  of	 theIncome-tax Act that the case is a fit one for appeal to thisCourt.	It is with this certificate that the present  appealhas been brought to this Court; and the only point which  itraises	for our decision relates to the construction of	 theexpression " at the rate applicable145to  the	 total	income of the company  "  appearing  in	 therelevant provision of the Act. The  appellant	 does  not  dispute  its  liability  to	 payadditional  income-tax	under  cl. (ii) of  the	 proviso  toparagraph B of Part I of the First Schedule to the Act.	 Thedispute	 between  the parties is in regard to  the  rate  atwhich  the additional income-tax has to be charged.   I	 Theappellant  has	paid income-tax on its total income  in	 therelevant  assessment year at the rate of sixteen pies  in  arupee in accordance with the computation prescribed by para.6  of  the Order; and it is urged on its  behalf,  that	 therebate	to which it is entitled under the provisions of	 thesaid  Order is irrelevant in determining the rate  at  whichthe  additional income-tax can be computed against  it.	  Onthe other hand, the respondent contends that the  additionalincome-tax  has	 to  be computed at the rate  at  which	 theappellant's  income  has been actually assessed and  so	 therebate granted to the appellant under the said Order must betaken  into  account  in determining the said  rate  of	 theadditional tax.It  would  be  relevant,  at this stage,  to  refer  to	 theprovisions  of	the  Order under  which	 the  appellant	 hasadmittedly  obtained  rebate as a company  carrying  on	 itsbusiness   in  Saurashtra.   By	 the  Order,   the   CentralGovernment  made exemptions, reductions in the rate  of	 taxand modifications specified in the Order in exercise of	 thepowers	conferred  by s. 60A of the  Income-tax	 Act.	ThisOrder applied to Part 'B' states which included all Part 'B'States other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir.  Paragraph5  of  the  Order  deals with  income  of  a  previous	yearchargeable  in the Part 'B' States in  1949-50.	  Sub-clause(3)  of	 paragraph 5 shows that the  State  assessment	year1949-50	 means	the assessment year which commences  on	 anydate  between April 1, 1949 and December 31, 1949.   We	 arenot  concerned	with  the  provisions  of  this	  paragraph.Paragraph 6(iii) applies to the present case.  The effect ofpara. 6(1), (ii) and (iii) is that in respect of so much  ofthe  income, profits and gains included in the total  incomeas accrue or arise in any State other19146   than	 the States of Patiala and East-Punjab States  Unionand Travancore-Cochin(i)  the  tax  shall be computed (a) at the Indian  rate  oftax;  and (b) at the State rate of tax in force	 immediatelybefore the appointed day;(ii) where the amount of tax computed under subclause (a) ofclause,	 (1) is less than or is equal to the amount  of	 taxcomputed under sub-clause (b) of clause (1)  the  amount  ofthe first mentioned tax shall be the tax     payable;(iii)  where the amount of tax computed under subclause	 (a)of clause (1) exceeds the tax computed. under sub-clause (b)of clause (1), the excess shall be allowed as a rebate	fromthe  first  mentioned  tax  and	 the  amount  of  the  firstmentioned tax as so reduced shall be the tax payable.Thus under el. (iii) the amount of income-tax levied againstthe appellant is not the amount computed at the Indian rate;it represents the difference between the amounts  calculatedat  the Indian rate of tax and that calculated at the  Staterate of tax.  The excess of the first amount over the secondis allowed as a rebate.	 In other words, the Indian rate  oftax  prescribed by the relevant provisions of the  Act	doesnot  by	 itself determine the amount of tax payable  by	 theappellant for the relevant year.It  is	well  known that when different Part '	B  '  Statesmerged with the adjoining States or Provinces and were	madetaxable territories under the Income-tax Act, the  operationof  the	 Indian	 rate of tax was introduced  by	 phases	 andrebates	 on a graduated scale were allowed to the  assesseesunder  the  provisions of this Order.  As  we  have  alreadymentioned,  it	is  common ground  that	 the  appellant	 wasentitled  to and has obtained rebate under sub-cl. (iii)  ofparagraph  6 of 'the Order, with the result that  his  totalincome	has been taxed to income-tax at the rate of  sixteenpies  in  a rupee.  The point for determination	 is  whetherthis rebate is relevant in determining the rate at which theadditional   income-tax	 has  to'  be  levied  against	 theappellant under the relevant provisions of the Act.147Let  us	 now consider the relevant provisions  of  the	Act.Section	 3  of	the Income-tax Act  which  is  the  chargingsection	 provides that " where any Central Act	enacts	thatincome-tax  shall  be charged for any year at  any  rate  orrates, tax at that rate or those rates shall be charged	 forthat year in accordance with, and subject to the  provisionsof, this Act in respect of the total income of the  previousyear  of  the'	assessee ". Thus,  when	 levying  income-taxagainst the total income of the assessee, the rate at  whichthe  tax has to be levied is prescribed by the Act  for	 therelevant year.	Section 2 of the Act provides that,  subjectto  the provisions of sub-ss. (3), (4) and  (5),  income-taxshall  be charged at the rates specified in Part I  -of	 theFirst  Schedule;  and  sub-s. (7) provides that	 "  for	 thepurpose	 of  this section, and of the rates of	tax  imposedthereby, the expression " total income " means total  incomeas  determined for the purposes of income-tax or  super-tax,as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of theAct  ". So we must turn to the First Schedule to the Act  tofind  the  rate	 at which the  appellant  can  be  assessed.Paragraph B of the said Schedule deals with companies and itprovides that, in the case of every company, on the whole oftotal  income the tax is leviable at the rate of four  annasin the rupee.  There is a proviso to this paragraph and	 theclause	which  calls  for our construction  in	the  presentappeal	occurs	in  the	 explanation to	 el.  (ii)  of	thisproviso.   This	 proviso deals with the case  of  a  companywhich in respect of its profits liable to tax under the	 Actfor  the relevant year has made the prescribed	arrangementsfor  the  declaration and payment within  the  territory  ofIndia  excluding  the  State of Jammu  and  Kashmir  of	 thedividends  payable out of such profits and has deducted	 thesuper-tax   from  the  dividends  in  accordance  with	 theprovisions of  sub-s. (3D) or (3E) of s. 18 of that Act; andin that connection, it provides:(1)  where  the total income, as reduced by seven  annas  inthe rupee and by the amount, if any, exempt from  income-taxexceeds	 the  amount of any dividends  (including  dividendspayable at a fixed rate) declared148in  respect of the whole or, part of the previous  year	 forthe assessment for the year ending on the 31st day of March,1951,  and  no order has been made under subsection  (1)  ofsection	 23A  of  the Income-tax Act,,	a  rebate  shall  beallowed, at  the rate of one anna per rupee on the amount ofsuch excess(ii) where  the	 amount of dividends referred to  in  clause(1i)  above  exceeds the total income as  reduced  by  sevenannas  in the rupee and by the amount, if, any, exempt	fromincome-tax,  there shall be charged on the total  income  anadditional income-tax equal to the sum, if any, by which theaggregate amount of income-tax actually borne by such excess(hereinafter  referred to as " the excess dividend ")  fallsshort of the amount calculated at the rate of five annas perrupee on the excess dividend.It would thus be seen that the object of the legislature  inenacting  this proviso is to encourage companies  to  ploughback  some  of	their  profits	into  the  industry  not  todistribute unduly large portions of their. profits to  theirshareholders  by  declaring unreasonably high  or  excessivedividends.   In order to give effect to this  intention	 thelegislature  has offered an inducement to the  companies  bygiving	them  a	 certain  rebate.  If  a  company  does	 notdistribute as dividends more than roughly nine annas of	 itsprofits which is specified as distributable, then the rebateof  one anna is given to the company to the extent that	 thedividend  paid	by  it	was  less  than	 the   distributabledividend.   If the company pays more than the  distributableamount	of  dividend then it was not entitled to  claim	 anyrebate;	 but, on the contrary, it becomes liable to  pay  anadditional  income-tax	as  provided  in  cl.  (ii)  of	 theproviso.   In other words, the intention of the	 legislatureappears to be that companies should no doubt declare reason-able  dividend and thereby invite the investment of  capitalin  business;  but  they should	 not  declare  an  excessivedividend  and should plough back part of their profits	intothe industry.  It is with this object that the provision forrebate	has  been  made.   It would  be	 noticed  that,,  inaddition  to the rebate received by the appellant under	 therelevant provisions of the		  149Order,	it  would have been entitled to receive	 the  rebateunder el. (1) of the proviso to paragraph B if the  dividenddeclared by it had not exceeded the specified  distributableamount.	 In fact the dividend declared by the appellant	 hasexceeded  the said amount and the appellant has thus  becomeliable to pay additional income-tax in respect of the excessdividend under cl, (ii) of the proviso to paragraph B. Underthis  clause, " the appellant shall be charged on the  totalincome an additional income-tax equal to the sum, if any, bywhich  the aggregate amount of income-tax actually borne  bysuch  excess  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "	 the  excessdividend ") falls short of the amount calculated at the rateof  five  annas	 per rupee on the excess  dividend  ".	Thisprovision  raises the problem of determining  the  aggregateamount of income-tax actually borne by the excess  dividend;and  it	 is  to help the solution of this  problem  that  anexplanation  has been added which says, inter alia,  that  "for the purposes of cl. (ii) of the above proviso the aggre-gate  amount  of  income tax actually borne  by	 the  excessdividend shall be determined as follows:(i)  the  excess dividend shall be deemed to be out  of	 thewhole  or such portion of the undistributed profit,% of	 oneor  more  years immediately preceding the previous  year  aswould  be just sufficient to cover the amount of the  excessdividend and as have not likewise been taken into account tocover an excess dividend of a preceding year;(ii) such portion of the excess dividend as is deemed to  beout  of the undistributed profits of each of the said  yearsshall  be deemed to have borne tax(a) if an order  has	beenmade under sub-section (1) of section 23A of the  Income-taxAct,  in respect of the undistributed profits of that  year,at the rate of five annas in the rupee, and(b)  in respect of any other year, at the rate applicable tothe total income of the company for that year reduced by therate   at  which  rebate,  if  any,  was  allowed   on	 theundistributed profits."Clause (1). explains what shall be deemed to be the150excess	dividend and how it, should be ascertained.   Clause(ii) lays down how the portion of the excess dividend as  isdeemed to be out of the undistributed profits of each of theyears  mentioned in cl. (ii) of the proviso shall be  deemedto have borne tax.  Sub. clause (a) of cl. (ii) is concernedwith cases where an order has been made under s. 23A (1)  inrespect	 of  the undistributed profits of that year  at	 therate  of five annas in a rupee.	 We are not  concerned	withthis clause in the present appeal.  It is sub-cl. (b) of el.(ii)  of the explanation to the proviso to paragraph B	thatfalls for consideration in the present appeal.The  appellant's case is that the expression " at  the	rateapplicable  to the total income " means the rate  prescribedby paragraph B of the Act and not the rate at which  income-tax  has actually and in fact been levied.  This  contentionhas been rejected by the High Court and the appellant  urgesthat the High Court was in error in rejecting its case.	 Theargument  is that the words " at the rate applicable to	 thetotal income of the company " must be strictly and literallyconstrued  and	reliance  is placed on	the  principle	thatfiscal	statutes must be strictly construed.  On  the  otherhand,  as  observed  by Maxwell "  the	tendency  of  moderndecisions  upon	 the  whole  is	 to  narrow  materially	 thedifference  between what is called a strict  and  beneficialconstruction  (1) ". Now the words " the rate  applicable  "may  mean either the rate prescribed by paragraph B  or	 therate actually applied in the light of the relevant statutoryprovisions.    "Applicable",   according   to	its    plaingrammatical  meaning,  means  capable of  being	 applied  orappropriate;   and  appropriateness  of	 the  rate  can	  bedetermined only after considering all the relevant statutoryprovisions.   In this sense it would mean the rate  actuallyapplied.   In the present case, if sub-cl. (b) is read as  awhole, and all the material words used are given their plaingrammatical  meaning,  its  construction  would	 present  noserious	 difficulty.   When the clause refers  to  the	rateapplicable,  it is necessary to remember that it  refers  tothe rate applicable to- the total income of the company	 for(1)  Maxwell on " Interpretation of Statutes ", 10th Ed.  p.284.151that year. In other words, the clause clearly refers to	 thespecific  or  definite	rate  which  is	 determined  to	  beapplicable  to	the taxable income of the  company  for	 thespecific year; and it is not the rate prescribed by the	 Actfor  the relevant year generally in reference to incomes  ofcompanies.    The  result  is  that,  for  determining	 theaggregate amount of income-tax actually borne by the  excessdividend, the department must take into account the rate  atwhich the income of the company for the specific year has infact been applied or levied.Besides, in construing the words "I the rate applicable " wemust  bear in mind the context in which they are used.	 Thecontext	 shows that the said words are intended	 to  explainwhat  should. be taken to be " the tax actually borne ".  Ifthe  legislation  had intended that the tax  actually  borneshould in all, cases be determined merely by the applicationof  the	 rate  prescribed  for	companies  in  general,	 theexplanation  given by the material clause would	 really	 nothave  been  necessary.	 That is why  in  our  opinion,	 thecontext justifies the construction which we are inclined  toplace on the words " the rate applicable ".The same position is made clear by the further provision  insub-cl. (b) itself which requires that the relevant rate hasto  be reduced by the rate at which the rebate, if any,	 hasbeen allowed on the undistributed profits; which means that,for determining the rate in sub-cl. (b), it is necessary  totake into account the rebate which may have been allowed  tothe company under el. (1) of the proviso to paragraph B,  sothat  in such a case the rate applicable cannot be the	rateprescribed in paragraph B of the Act; it must be the rate soprescribed reduced by the rate at which the rebate has beengranted under cl. (1) of the proviso to paragraph B.  It  isthus clear that the words " rate applicable  in	 such  casesmean  the  rate	 determined after deducting  from  the	rateprescribed by paragraph B the rate of rebate allowed by	 el.(1)  of	 the proviso to the said paragraph.   Therefore,  atleast  in  these  cases, the material words  mean  the	rateactually  applied.  If that be the true position,  the	rateapplicable must in152all  cases mean the rate actually applied.  The	 same  wordscannot have two different meaning,% in the same clause.Incidentally we may point out that the provision of the	 Actin regard to the payment of additional income-tax appears tobe  intended to impose a penalty for distributing  dividendsbeyond	the  distributable.limit mentioned by  the  statute.The  method  prescribed for determining the amount  of	thisadditional income-tax is this.	Calculate the amount at	 therate  of  five annas per rupee on the  excess  dividend	 anddeduct from the amount so determined the aggregate amount ofincome-tax  actually  borne  by such  excess  dividend;	 thebalance	 is  the amount of  additional	income-tax  leviableagainst	 the  company.	In adopting this method,  if  rebateadmissible under cl. (1) of the proviso to para. graph B hasto be deducted from the rate prescribed, it is difficult  tounderstand  why a rebate granted under paragraph  6(iii)  ofthe  Order should not likewise be deducted.  We	 accordinglyhold that the rate applicable in sub-cl. (b) of cl. (ii)  ofthe  explanation  read	with  cl. (ii)	of  the	 proviso  toparagraph  B  of  Schedule  I of the  Act  means  the,	rateactually applied in a given case.  On, this construction therate at which the appellant is liable to pay the  additionalincome-tax would be the difference between the rate of	fiveannas  and the rate of sixteen pies in a rupee at which	 theappellant has in fact paid income-tax in the relevant  year.That is to say, the additional income-tax is leviable at therate of forty-four pies in a rupee.In  its judgment, the High Court of Saurashtra has  referredwith  approval to the decision of the Bombay High  Court  inElphinstone   Spinning	and  Weaving  Mills  Co.,  Ltd.	  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax, Bombay City(1).  In this  case,Chagla	C. J. and Tendolkar J. have held that if  a  companyhas no taxable income at all for the assessment year 1951-52and in that year it pays dividends out of the profits earnedin the preceding year or years, additional income-tax cannotbe  levied on the company by reason of the fact that it	 haspaid an excess dividend within the meaning of that[1955] 28 I.T.R. 811.153expression  in, the proviso to paragraph B of Part I of	 theAct.  We are not concerned with this aspect of the matter inthe  present appeal.  However, in dealing with the  questionraised	before	them, the learned judges  have	incidentallyconstrued  the relevant words " rate applicable" as  meaningthe rate actually applied; and their observations do supportthe  view taken by the Saurashtra High Court in the  presentcase.The result is the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.			      Appeal dismissed.