PETITIONER:L.   J. LEACH AND COMPANY LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:JARDINE SKINNER AND CO.DATE OF JUDGMENT:22/01/1957BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  357		  1957 SCR  438ACT:Amendment of plaint-Addition of alternative ground for claim--Necessary  allegations  Present in  Plaint-Fresh  suit  onamended claim barred by limitation -Whether amendment shouldbe allowed-Action in trover-when maintainable.HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 filed	a suit for  damages  for  conversionagainst	  the  respondents  on	the  allegations  that	 therespondents  were  the agents of the appellants,  that	the-appellants  had	 placed orders for certain  goods  with	 therespondents, and that the respondents had actually  importedthe  goods  but refused to deliver them to  the	 appellants.The  suit  was dismissed on the findings  that	the  partiesstood  in the relationship of seller and purchaser, and	 notagent  and principal and that the title in the	goods  couldonly   pass   to  the  appellants   when   the	 respondentsappropriated  them to the appellants' contracts.  In  appealbefore	the  Supreme  Court,  the  appellants  applied	 foramendment  of the plaint by raising, in the  alternative,  aclaim for damages for breach of contract for nondelivery  ofthe  goods.  All the allegations necessary for sustaining  aclaim  for  damages  for breach	 of  contract  were  alreadypresent	 in the plaint and the only allegation	lacking	 wasthat  the appellants were, in the alternative,	entitled  toclaim damages for breach of contract by the non-delivery  ofthe goods.  But a fresh suit on the amended claim was barredby limitation on the date of the application.Held, that this was a fit case in which the amendment shouldbe allowed.  The fact that a fresh suit on the amended claimwas(1)  A.I.R. [1954] Raj. 211.439barred	 by  limitation	 is  a	factor	to  be	taken	intoconsideration  in  the	exercise of  the  discretion  as  towhether	 the amendment should be ordered or not,  -and	doesnot  affect the power of the court to order it, if  that  isrequired in the interests of justice. Charan Das v. Amir Khan, L.R. 47 I.A. 225 and Kisan Dasv.   Rachappa, (1909) I.L.R. 33 Bombay 644, followed.To  maintain  an  action  in  trover  the  plaintiffs	mustestablish  that they had title to the goods in question	 andthat  further they were entitled to possession thereof	whenthey  called  upon the defendants to deliver them.   If	 theparties stood in the relation of sellers and purchasers withreference to the transactions, then the plaintiffs must showthat the property in the goods, which initially was with thedefendants  had	 passed	 to them  in  accordance  with	the-provisions  of	the  Sale of Goods Act.	  If,  however,	 thedefendants  imported the goods as agents of the	 plaintiffs,then the title to them would undoubtedly be with the latter,and the only question then would be whether the former	wereentitled to retain possession, as they would be if they	 hadpaid the price on behalf of the principals, and had not beenreimbursed that amount.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.219 of 1953.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated June 26, 1952,  ofthe  Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 20 of 1952 arising	 outof  the judgment and decree dated December 17, 1951, of	 the-said High Court in its ordinary Original Civil Jurisdictionin Suit No. 1623 of 1948.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   M.	  N.Gharekhan and M. S. K. Sastri, for the appellants.H.   D.	 Banaji, D. P. Madon, S. N. Andley,  Rameshwar	Nathand J. B. Dadachanji, for the respondents.1957.  January 22.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AYYAR  J.-This  appeal arises  out	 of  a	suitinstituted by the appellants in the High Court of Bombay fordamages for conversion estimated at Rs. 4,71,670-15-0.	 Thesuit  was decreed by Shah J. sitting on the  Original  Side,but his judgment was reversed on appeal. by Chagla C.J.	 andGajendragadkar J. Against this judgment, the plaintiffs have57440preferred  the	present appeal on a certificate	 under	Art.133(1)(a) of the Constitution.Messrs.	  Maitland  Craig  Lubricants Ltd.  is	an  AmericanCompany	 engaged in the manufacture and sale of	 lubricants.It  carried  on business in India with its  head  office  atCalcutta  and  a  branch  office  at  Bombay.	The   secondplaintiff,  H. J. Leach, was employed during the years	1933to   1935  in  the  Bombay  branch  of	the  said   Company.Subsequent  thereto, the Company closed its  Bombay  branch,and  eventually	 wound up its Calcutta office as  well,	 andthereafter its business was taken over firstly by Ewing	 andCompany	 and  then  by the defendants.	After  he  left	 theservice of Maitland Craig Lubricants Ltd., Mr. Leach startedbusiness as seller of lubricants on his own account and	 wasimporting  them	 through the defendants.  On June  6,  1941,they  entered  into an agreement, Ex.  A,  under  which	 Mr.Leach was given an exclusive right to sell lubricants of themake of Maitland Craig Lubricants Ltd., within the limits ofBombay	Presidency,  Central Provinces, Rajputana  and	suchparts of Central India and Hyderabad as might be  determinedby  the	 defendants.  The agreement was to  continue  for  aperiod of five years "unless sooner determined in the mannerhereunder - provided.  " Clause 14 of the agreementruns as follows:"Notwithstanding   anything  hereinbefore   contained	thisagreement  shall  be  terminable by either  of	the  partieshereto	upon  giving  to the  other  three  calendar  monthsprevious notice in writing expiring at any time but  withoutprejudice  to  the  rights and liabilities  of	the  partiesrespectively   which  shall  have  accrued  prior  to	suchtermination.  "Clause	16 provides that the agreement was personal  to	 theselling	 agent, and that he was not to assign or attempt  toassign	his  rights thereunder without the  consent  of	 thedefendants  in writing first obtained.	It is common  groundthat the dealings between the parties continued on the basisof this agreement during therelevant period.On  March  18, 1944, the first plaintiff, which is  a  JointStock Company, was incorporated -under the provisions441of  the	 Indian Companies Act, and on March  30,  1944,	 thesecond	plaintiff assigned his business to it.	On June	 13,1945, the defendants wrote to the second plaintiff that theywere  cancelling the agency constituted under the  agreementdated June 6, 1941, as he had assigned the same to the firstplaintiff  without  obtaining their consent  in	 writing  asprovided therein.  Before that date, however, the defendantshad  placed orders for import from America of certain  goodswhich  the  plaintiffs had required, but  these	 goods	wereactually  received  by them after the  cancellation  of	 thecontract.  The plaintiffs called upon them to deliver  thosegoods  to them, but they refused to do so.   Thereupon,	 theplaintiffs  instituted	the  present suit  for	damages	 forconversion  alleging that the goods in question were due  tothem under Government quotas comprised in Nos.	P.L. 1004 to1007, and that the defendants who had ordered them on  theirbehalf had themselves no title to them.	 The plaintiffs alsoaverred	 that in importing those goods the  defendants	wereacting	as  their agents.  The	defendants  repudiated	thisclaim.	 They contended that far from they being the  agentsof the plaintiffs, it was the second plaintiff who was theiragent,	and  that  the property in the goods  was  with	 thedefendants  and that the action for damages  for  conversionwas not maintainable.The  suit was tried by Shah J. who held that the  plaintiffswere  not  the agents of the defendants, that the  goods  inquestion  had been imported by the latter on behalf  of	 theformer,	 and that in refusing to deliver the same  to  them,the  defendants were guilty of conversion.   He	 accordinglypassed	a decree referring the suit to the Commissioner	 forascertaining  the  damages.   On  appeal,  Chagla  C.J.	 andGajendragadkar	J. held that on the terms of  the  agreementdated  June 6, 1941, on which the suit was based, the  titleto the goods imported by the defendants vested in them,	 andthat  it  would	 pass  to  the	plaintiffs  only  when	 thedefendants endorsed the shipping documents in their  favour,and that as that had not been done, the claim for damages onthe basis of conversion was misconceived.  They	 accordinglyallowed the appeal, and dismissed the suit.442Now,  the contention of the appellants before us is that  onthe facts proved, they were entitled to damages on the basisof conversion.There  is no dispute as to the position in law.	 Before	 theplaintiffs  can	 maintain  an action in	 trover,  they	mustestablish  that they had title to the goods in question	 andthat  further they were entitled to possession thereof	whenthey  called  upon the defendants to deliver them.   If	 theparties stood in the relation of sellers and purchasers withreference to the transactions, then the plaintiffs must showthat the property in the goods, which initially was with thedefendants, passed to them in accordance with the provisionsof  the	 Sale  of Goods Act.  If,  however,  the  defendantsimported  the  goods as agents of the plaintiffs,  then	 thetitle to them could undoubtedly be with the latter, and	 theonly question then would be whether the former were entitledto retain possession, as they would be if they had paid	 theprice  of the goods on behalf of the principal, and had	 notbeen reimbursed that amount.  This question, however,  wouldnot  arise  on	the facts of this case,	 as  the  defendantsdenied	the title of the plaintiffs to the goods, and  therewas  no	 refusal by the latter to pay the price.   The	mainquestion that arises for determination, therefore, is as  tothe  relationship in which the parties stood with  referenceto the suit transactions.It is conceded that to start with, it is the agreement,	 Ex.A, that governs the rights of the parties.  It is  thereforenecessary  to  examine	its  terms  to	ascertain  the	truerelationship of the parties thereunder.	 It has been alreadymentioned   that   under  this	agreement  Mr.	 Leach	 wasconstituted  the selling agent of the defendants in  certainareas specified therein.  Under Ex. A, the second  plaintiffwas  not to sell the goods below a certain price,  and	theywere  also  to	be  sold with  the  mark,  Mait	 land  CraigLubricants Ltd.	 The course of business was that the  secondplaintiff   used   to  intimate	 to   the   defendants	 hisrequirements.	They would then import those goods in  theirown  names  from  America  under  c.i.f.  contracts.   Afterimporting  them,  they would fix their own price  for  thosegoods and			    443endorse	 the  shipping	documents in favour  of	 the  secondplaintiff,  who	 would	be entitled to	clear  them  at	 theharbour on payment of 80 per cent. of the price, the balanceof  20 per cent. being payable on the delivery of the  goodsby  him to his purchasers.  The sales to be effected by	 thesecond	plaintiff within the area to his own customers	werematters	 which concerned only him and his  purchasers.	 Thedefendants  had nothing to do with them.  Under cl.  6,	 thesecond plaintiff had to "keep the value of his stocks at alltimes  fully  insured against fire risk." Clause  13  is  asfollows:"  The relationship between parties hereto shall be that  ofprincipal  and	principal only and the selling	agent  shallhave no authority whatsoever except such as may be conferredupon him in writing by the firm to transact any business  inthe  name of the firm or to bind the firm by  any  contract,agreement or undertaking with or to any third party."In contrast with these terms, there is cl. 4, which providesthat  the defendants would themselves supply to	 the  IndianStores	Department  all	 their	requirements  of  lubricantswithin	the territory allotted to the second plaintiff,	 whowas  to	 act  as  their agent  in  clearing  the  goods	 anddelivering  them  to  the authorities.	And  for  this,	 thesecond plaintiff was to be paid a commission.It  is	clear  that  the agreement read	 as  a	whole  is  acomposite one consisting of two distinct matters.  So far ascl. 4 is concerned, the second plaintiff was merely an agentof  the defendants.  As regards the other clauses, the	truerelationship  is,  as  stated in cl.  13,  that	 the  secondplaintiff  was purchaser of the goods from  the	 defendants,and  the conditions relating to the minimum price  at  whichthey  could  be sold and the marking of the goods  with	 thename of Maitland Craig Lubricants Ltd. were only intended toprotect	 their	trade interests but that once  the  shippingdocument  were	endorsed  by the defendants  to	 the  secondplaintiff,  he became the owner of those goods.	 The  objectof  the	 insurance  clause was obviously  to  safeguard	 theinterests  of the defendants with reference to	the  balanceprice payable by the second plaintiff.	In this case, we444are not concerned with any goods consigned by the defendantsfor  supply  to the Government under cl. 4  but	 with  goodswhich were imported by them for meeting the requirements  ofthe  plaintiffs.   The	relationship  of  the  parties	withreference  to  those  goods,  if  it  is  governed  by	thisagreement, is undoubtedly that neither party is agent of theother,	and  that  the defendants are the  sellers  and	 theplaintiffs  are	 the purchasers.  If so, the  title  to	 thegoods would pass to the plaintiffs only when the  defendantsappropriated  them  to	the contract,  as  for	example,  byendorsing  the shipping documents, and as that had not	beendone,  the  claim for damages on the  ground  of  conversionwould be misconceived.The   learned	Solicitor-General  who	appeared   for	 theappellants, did not dispute that this was the position underEx.  A. But he contended that the relationship of seller andpurchaser created by the agreement became modified when	 theGovernment   introduced	 the  licence  system.	  That	 wasintroduced in August ,September, 1941, while the war was on,with  a	 view to regulate and control imports.	 The  systemadopted	 was  that  every importer was required	 to  give  astatement  as to they extent of his import  business  duringthe  preceding years, and on the basis of that statement,  alicence	 was  given  to him to import up  to  a	 limit.	  OnSeptember  26,	1941, the second plaintiff  applied  to	 theController  for a licence to import lubricants stating	thathe  had been doing that business for seven years and  givingparticulars  as to the volume of his business.	Sometime  inNovember,  a licence was granted to him by  the	 Government.The  defendants	 also  applied	for  a	licence	 to   importlubricants  based  on  the  volume  of	their  business	 andobtained  it.	That licence did not -include  the  quantitywhich  they sold to the second plaintiff, and thus  the	 twolicences were mutually exclusive.  Mr. Leach would have beenhimself entitled under the licence to import goods  directlyfrom  America,	but  he chose to  import  them	through	 thedefendants  as	before,	 because  under	 the  terms  of	 theagreement, Ex.	A, he would have to pay only 80 per cent. ofthe price when clearing the goods.  There was,445however,  this change in the character of  the	transaction,that  whereas before the licence system the defendants	werethe   purchasers  from	American  Companies   under   c.i.f.contracts  and	they  then  sold the  goods  to	 the  secondplaintiff on a price fixed by them, under the licence systemthe price payable to them was only what they themselves	 hadto  pay to the American sellers with an addition by  way  ofcommission on the transaction.Now, the argument of the appellants is that as they were thepersons	 entitled  to  import the goods	 under	the  licencegranted to them, in importing them on their requisition	 thedefendants  must be held -to have acted for them,  and	thatthe  relationship between them was no longer one  of  sellerand  purchaser under Ex.  A but of agent and principal.	  Tothis,  the  answer of Mr. Banaji, learned  counsel  for	 therespondents,  was  twofold.  He contended  firstly  that  inapplying for and obtaining the licence in his own name,	 thesecond	plaintiff  was	merely acting as the  agent  of	 thedefendants, and secondly that the present contention was notraised	in  the plaint and was, therefore, not open  to	 theappellants.   On the first contention he referred us to	 thecorrespondence	which  passed  between the  parties  at	 therelevant period.  On September 5, 1941, the defendants wroteto  the	 second	 plaintiff to send  particulars	 of  certainshipments  consigned to him so that they could include	themin their application for licence, and on September 11, 1941,they  further wrote to him that those goods were not  to  beincluded  in hi,, application for licence.  But	 the  secondplaintiff  was obviously not agreeable to it,  and  actuallyincluded those very shipments in his application for licencedated September 26, 1941.  The defendants did not pursue thematter	further,  and  wrote  to  the  second  plaintiff  orDecember  10, 1941, to intimate to them the number and	dateof his import licence and continued to import goods for	 himon  the	 basis	of that licence.   Counsel  for	 respondentsrelied	on  a letter dated December 11, 1941  in  which	 thedefendants  advised the second plaintiff to join a group  ofoil  merchants, which was to be formed at Bombay,  but	thatwas obviously by way of adviced446to him as a customer.  This evidence is too inconclusive andtoo  slender  to  support the  contention  that	 the  secondplaintiff   obtained  the  licence  as	the  agent  of	 thedefendants.  On the other hand, if the true position of	 thesecond	plaintiff under Ex.  A was that he was a.  purchaserof goods, then the sales by him of those goods were as ownerand  the licence issued to him on the basis of	those  salesmust  have  been given to him in his own right	and  not  asagent  of the defendants.  This wag the finding of  Shah  J.and  that  has not been reversed on appeal, and	 we  are  inagreement with it.It is next contended that the entire plaint is framed on thefooting	 that the rights of the parties are governed by	 Ex.A, that there is no averment therein that that agreement hadbeen  cancelled	 or modified, and that a new  agreement	 hadbeen  substituted after the licence system  was	 introduced,that the evidence of Mr. Leach in the box was also that	 Ex.A was in force throughout the period, and that therefore  itwas not open to the appellants now to contend that the rela-tionship  of  seller  and purchaser under Ex.	A  had	beenaltered	 into one of agent and principal.  It is  true	thatthe  plaint proceeds on the basis that Ex.  A is  in  force,and  there is no allegation that it had been modified.	 ButEx.  A had not been wholly abandoned.  It was still in forcegoverning  the	relationship of the parties  in	 respect  ofvarious	 matters such as delivery of goods on payment of  80per  cent.  of	the price.  The plaint	does  refer  to	 theintroduction  of  the  licence system,	and  the  defendantsclearly knew as much of the true position thereunder as	 theplaintiffs,  and  there	 could be  no  question's  surprise.Under the circumstances, if the rights of the parties had tobe  determined on the basis of the licence system, we  wouldhave  hesitated	 to non-suit the appellants  merely  on	 theground that the effect of that system had not been expresslystated in the plaint.But then, the licence system itself came to an end in March-April,	1942, and was replaced by what is known as  "  Leaseand Lend " scheme.  It was under this scheme that the  goodswhich  form  the  subjectmatter	 of  this  litigation	wereimported,  and we have therefore to examine what the  rightsof the parties			    447are  with  reference to the incidents of that  scheme  takenalong  with Ex.	 A, which is admitted by the  appellants  tohave  been  in	force.	This scheme was	 introduced  by	 theGovernment  of	India  as a war measure	 to  facilitate	 theimport	of certain essential goods and to conserve them	 forthe  effective prosecution of the war.	Oil  and  lubricantswere  among  the  goods which  were  controlled	 under	thisscheme.	  Under	 it, the Government  prohibited	 the  directimport	of oil and lubricants from America  through  privateagencies,  whether individuals, firms or companies and	tookupon itself to import the required quantity.An  association of importers and dealers in Calcutta  calledthe  Central  Lubricants Advisory Committee  (C.L.A.C.)	 wasformed,	 and importers were to write to the  Committee	whatquantity they required to be imported on their behalf.	ThisCommittee  was	a  private body, and  served  as  a  liaisonbetween	 the  importers	 and  the  Government.	 A   similarCommittee was formed at Bombay called the Bombay  LubricantsAdvisory Committee (B.L.A.C.). The procedure adopted in	 theimport of goods was this: the importers were to state  theirrequirements  to  the Committee which sent the same  to	 theGovernment.   Then  on intimation given	 by  the  Governmentauthorities,  the  dealers would have to  make	deposits  onaccount	 of  the  price	 to be	paid  for  the	goods.	 TheGovernment had a purchasing agent in America and he would berequired  by  them to purchase the requisite  goods  and  toarrange to get them transhipped to the destinations in Indiamentioned  by the several dealers.  The	 shipping  documentswould be taken in the name of the Government and on  paymentof the bills endorsed over to the importer for clearance  atthe  harbour.  The features of the system to be noticed	 arethat it was the Government who was the importer of the goodsand  the  dealers became entitled to the goods only  on	 theshipping documents being endorsed to them by the Government.Now,  so far as the plaintiffs are concerned, the facts	 arethat they made no deposits with the Government,58448and their names were not in the list of traders for whom theGovernment  imported  the goods.  They had  direct  dealingsonly  with  the defendants and sent  their  requirements  tothem.	The  defendants would in their	application  to	 theGovernment  include what the plaintiffs required as well  aswhat  they  themselves	required  and  make  the   necessarydeposits  for all the goods.  But all that would stand	onlyin their name.	Though it would be possible to ascertain  byreference to the correspondence between the parties which ofthe  orders  placed by the defendants  with  the  Governmentrelated to the requirements of the plaintiffs, so far as theGovernment  itself  was	 concerned  it	knew  only  of	 thedefendants  as importers, and it was in their name that.  itwould  endorse the shipping documents, and it was only	whenthe defendants in their turn endorsed the same to them	thatthe  plaintiffs	 would	get  title to  the  goods,  and	 theevidence of Mr. Leach makes it clear that this had not	beendone,  as regards the shipments with which the suit is	con-cerned.	 This is what he says in his deposition." The goods were shipped all to the order of the  Governmentof India  Separate documents were drawn up in respect of theconsignments which were to be supplied to each of the traderaccording  to his requirement submitted to Government.	 Thetraders	 who submitted their requirements cleared the  goodsby paying the amount of the bills.... The Government did notmake any allocation to me.  I depended on the defendants forobtaining  my requirements from the Government.	 I  did	 notmake  any cash deposit as required of the dealer. 1 made  nodeposit with the Government in respect of the quantity whichI  wanted.  The entire deposit was made with the  Governmentby the defendants even in respect of my requirements...	 Thedefendants  endorsed  over the documents in  my	 favour	 forgoods which were meant for me... Excepting for the  admittedportions  the  documents for remaining part of PL.  1004  to1007  were not handed over to me or endorsed in	 my  favour,except to the extent to which the goods were delivered,"449The evidence of Sir John Burder for the defendants was	"theshipping  documents  were  received  in	 the  name  of	 thedefendants  ".	It  is thus clearly  established  that	withreference to the goods comprised in P.L. 1004 to 1007, whichformed	 the  subject-matter  of  the  suit,  the   shippingdocuments  had	not  been  made	 out  in  the  name  of	 theplaintiffs, nor had the defendants in whose names they	weretaken, endorsed the same to them.  That being so, unless theplaintiffs  established that the defendants  were  importingthe  goods  as their agents, they would not  have  title  tothem,  and the claim for damages on the basis of  conversionmust fail.We should mention that the appellants relied on some of	 theletters	 written  by  the defendants as	 showing  that	theyrecognised the plaintiffs as having the title to the  goods.Thus,  on  August  12, 1944, the  defendants  wrote  to	 theplaintiffs  " We confirm that the consignment is for you  ",and  on March 24, 1945, they wrote, " We enclose herewith  astatement  showing  quantities	and grades  that  have	beenordered	 by  Government on your account against	 order	P.L.1006/10"  But these statements are quite consistent with theposition  of the defendants as sellers who had	ordered	 thegoods  on  the	requisition of the plaintiffs,	and  do	 notimport that title thereto had passed to them, which could beonly   after  the  goods  came	into  existence	  and	wereappropriated.	That  did not happen in this case,  and	 theshipping documents continued in the name of the	 defendants.We  therefore  agree  with the learned Judges  that  on	 thepleadings  and on the evidence the claim for damages on	 thefooting of conversion must fail.That  would  entail the dismissal of this  appeal,  but	 theplaintiffs  have applied to this Court for amendment of	 theplaint	by raising, in the alternative, a claim for  damagesfor breach of contract for non- delivery of the goods.	 Therespondents  resist the application. They contend  that	 theamendment  introduces anew cause of action, that a  suit  onthat cause of action could now be barred by limitation, thatthe plaintiffs had ample opportunity to amend450their  plaint but that they failed to do so, and that  owingto   lapse  of	time  the  defendants  would  be   seriouslyprejudiced  if	this new claim were allowed  to	 be  raised.There  is  considerable force in the objections.  But  aftergiving due weight to them, we are of opinion that this is  afit  case in which the amendment ought to be  allowed.	 Theplaintiffs do not claim any damages for wrongful terminationof the agreement, Ex. A, by the notice dated June 13,  1945.What they claim is only damages for non-delivery of goods inrespect	 of  orders  placed  by them  and  accepted  by	 thedefendants prior to the termination of the agreement by thatnotice.	 Clause 14 of the agreement expressly reserves	thatright to the plaintiffs.  The suit being founded on Ex.	  A,a claim based on Cl. 14 thereof cannot be said to be foreignto the scope of the suit.  Schedule E to the plaint mentionsthe  several indents in respect of which the defendants	 hadcommitted default by refusing to deliver the goods, and	 thedamages	 claimed  are also stated therein.   The  plaintiffsseek by their amendment only to claim damages in respect  ofthose  consignments.   The prayer in the  plaint  is  itselfgeneral	  and	merely	claims	damages.   Thus,   all	 theallegations  which are necessary for sustaining a claim	 fordamages	 for breach of contract are already in	the  plaint.What  is lacking is only the allegation that the  plaintiffsare,  in  the  alternative, entitled to	 claim	damages	 forbreach	of contract by the defendants in not delivering	 thegoods.It  is no doubt, true that courts would, as a rule,  declineto  allow amendments, if a fresh suit on the  amended  claimwould	be  barred  by	limitation  on	the  date   of	 theapplication.  But that is a factor to be taken into  accountin exercise of the discretion as to whether amendment shouldbe  ordered, and does not affect the power of the  court  toorder  it, if that is required in the interests of  justice.In Charan Das v.    Amir   Khan	  (1)  the   Privy   Councilobserved:" That there was full power to make the amendment cannot  bedisputed, and though such a power(1)  [1920] 47 I.A. 255.451should	not as a, rule be exercised where the effect  is  totake  away from a defendants, legal right which has  accruedto  him	 by lapse of time, yet there are  cases	 where	suchconsiderations are out-weighed by the special  circumstancesof the case.Vide also Kisan Das v. RachappaIn  the present case, apart from the contents of the  plaintalready	 set  out,  there is the fact  that  the  defendantscancelled  the contract without strictly complying with	 theterms  of cl. 14.  The ground on which they  repudiated	 thecontract  was  that the second plaintiff  had  assigned	 hisinterests to the first plaintiff ; but the record shows thatsubsequent  to	the assignment the defendants  had  businesstransactions  with  both the plaintiffs	 and  therefore	 theground	for cancellation appears to have been a mere  deviceto  deprive  the plaintiffs of the benefits  of	 the  orderswhich  they had placed.	 We are of opinion that the  justiceof  the case requires that the amendment should be  granted.The  plaintiffs	 will accordingly be allowed  to  amend	 theplaint as follows:"  12(a)  In the alternative and without  prejudice  to	 theclaim on the footing of conversion, the plaintiffs say	thatby  reason  of	the facts aforesaid, there  was	 a  contractbetween	 the  parties whereby the  defendants  undertook  tosupply and deliver to the plaintiffs (or either of them) thegoods  ordered out by Government on-their (the	plaintiffs')account	 and included in the quotas PL. 1004-PL. 1007.	 Thesaid goods arrived in Bombay, but the defendants failed	 andneglected  to deliver the same though demanded, and in	factrepudiated their obligation to deliver.	 The plaintiffs	 saythat they were always ready and willing to pay for and	takedelivery of the same.The  defendants	 at all material times well  knew  that	 theplaintiffs  had	 purchased  the	 same  for  resale  and	 forfulfilment of contracts of sale and supply.  The  plaintiffsclaim damages as per particulars.  "This  appeal must accordingly be allowed, the  decree  underappeal set aside, and the suit remanded for(1)  [1909] I.L.R. 33 Bombay 644.452rehearing  to  the trial court.	 The  defendants  will	filetheir  written statement to the amended claim and  the	suitwill be tried and disposed of in accordance with law.There remains the question of costs.  As the plaintiffs	 aregetting	 an  indulgence,  they must pay	 the  costs  of	 thedefendants both in the suit and in the appeal to the  BombayHigh  Court.  So far as costs of this appeal are  concerned,as  the	 defendants persisted in their contention  that	 theplaintiffs  were only acting as their agents,  a  contentionwhich,	if upheld, would have furnished a conclusive  answerto the amended claim as well, we direct the parties to	beartheir own costs in this Court.Appeal allowed.Case remanded.