PETITIONER:WILLIE (WILLIAM) SLANEY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH.DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/10/1955BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARADAS, SUDHI RANJANJAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR  116		  1955 SCR  (2)1140ACT:Sessions  Trial-Charge under s. 304 read with s. 34  of	 theIndian	Penal  Code against two	 persons-Acquittal  of	one-Omission  to  frame alternative charge	against	 the  other-Conviction   under  s.	302   simpliciter-Validity-Code	  ofCriminal Procedure (Act V of 1898), ss. 225, 226, 227,	228,232,  233, 237, 238, 535, 537-Indian Penal Code (Act XLV  of1860), ss. 34,149,302.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	and  his brother were put up  for  trial  oncharges	 under	s. 302 read with s. 34 of the  Indian  PenalCode.  The appellant was specifically charged with murder inprosecution of the common intention.  There was evidence  toshow that he and not his brother had struck the fatal  blow.The  brother was acquitted and the appellant  was  convictedunder s. 302 and sentenced to transportation for life.	 TheHigh Court upheld the conviction and sentence and  dismissedthe appeal.  The question was whether the omission to  framean  alternative	 charge	 under s.  302	simpliciter  was  anillegality  that  vitiated  the trial  and  invalidated	 theconviction and whether there was a conflict of decisions  ofthis Court on the matter in controversy.Held  per curiam, that the omission to frame an	 alternativecharge	under s. 302 in the facts and circumstances  of	 thecase was not an illegality that vitiated the trial but was acurable irregularity as it had not occasioned any  prejudiceto the appellant and the conviction was not liable to be setaside.That  s.  34  of the Indian Penal Code by  itself  does	 notcreate any offence and where, as in the present case, it  ispossible  to ascertain who struck the fatal blow,  the	factthat  another  was also sought to be made  liable  does	 notinvalidate   a	conviction  for	 murder	 unless	 there	 wasprejudice.That the expression 'illegality' used in Nanak Chand's casemust be read with reference to the facts of that case  wherethe court1141found  prejudice, and the apparent conflict of view  betweenthe  judgment in that case and that in Suraj Pal's case	 hadreally no bearing on the present one.Nanak  Chand v. The State of Punjab ([1955] 1 S.C.R.  1201),and  SurajPal v. The State of U.P. ([1955] 1  S.C.R.  1332),explained.That the Code does not use the word 'illegality' nor  define'irregularity'	and 'illegality' can only mean an  incurableirregularity,  incurable because of prejudice leading  to  afailure of justice.  The question of prejudice is a questionof fact to be decided by the court in each particular case.That  the offence committed by the appellant fell under	 thesecond	part of s. 304 of the Indian Penal Code and  not  s.302  and  the conviction must be altered to one	 under	thatsection.N.   A.	 Subramania Iyer v. King-Emperor ([1901] L.R. 28  I.A. 257), explained.Babulal Choukhani v. The King-Emperor ([1938] L.R. 65 I.  A.158), Pulukuri Kotayya v. King-Emperor ([1947] L.R. 74	I.A.65), Abdul Rahman v. King-Emperor ([1926] L.R. 54 I. A. 96),Atta  Mohammad	v. King-Emperor ([1929] L.R.  57  I.A.	71),Karnail Singh v. The State of Punjab ([1954] S.C.R. 904) andBegu v. KingEmperor ([1925] I.L.R. 6 Lah. 226), referred to.Per  S. R. DAS, ACTING C.J. and BOSE J.-Like all  procedurallaws the Code of Criminal Procedure is designed to  subservethe  ends  of  justice and not to  frustrate  them  by	moretechnicalities.	 It regards some of its provisions as  vitalbut  others  not, and a breach of the latter  is  a  curableirregularity  unless the accused is prejudiced thereby.	  Itplaces	errors in the charge, or even a total absence  of  acharge in the curable class.  This is made clear by ss.	 535and 537 of the Code.The  object of the charge is to give the accused  notice  ofthe   matter  he  is  charged  with  and  does	 not   touchjurisdiction.	If, therefore, the necessary information  isconveyed to him in other ways and there is no prejudice, thetrial  is not invalidated by the mere fact that	 the  chargewas not formally reduced to writing.  The essential part  ofthis  part of the law is not any technical formula of  wordsbut  the  reality, whether the matter was explained  to	 theaccused	 and whether he understood what he was	being  triedfor.It  is	not correct to say that s. 535 of the  Code  has  noapplication to a case in which there is no charge at all  orthat  it cannot apply except where ss. 237 and 238 apply  orthat it is governed by s. 233.Sections   237,	 238,  535  and	 537  should  not  be	readdisjunctively.	They cover every possible case that  relatesto  the	 charge and they place all failures to	observe	 therules	about  the  charge  in	the  category	of   curableirregularities.Sections 535 and 537 apply to every case in which there is a1142departure from the rules set out in Chapter XIX ranging fromerror,	omissions  and irregularities in  charges  that	 areframed, down to charges that might have been framed and werenot and include a total omission to frame a charge at all atany stage of the trial.In judging a question of prejudice, as of guilt, courts mustact with a broad vision and look to the substance and not totechnicalities;	 and  their main concern should	 be  to	 seewhether	 the accused had a fair trial, whether he knew	whathe was being tried for, whether the main facts sought to  beestablished  against  him were explained to him	 fairly	 andclearly	 and whether he was given a full and fair chance  todefend himself.There  is  no conflict of view between Nanak  Chand  v.	 TheState  of  Punjab and Suraj Pal v. The State of U.P.  and  aclose  consideration of the reasons given in  Nanak  Chand'scase show that there was in fact no difference of opinion asregards	 cases	where  there  is a  charge  to	start  with.Neither	 case, however, deals with the position where  thereis no charge at all.  The remarks made in Nanak Chand's casemust  be read in the perspective indicated  and	 expressionswhich  appear  to  travel  wider  do  not  give	 a   correctexposition of the law.The effect of charging two persons with murder committed  inpursuance  of a common intention under s. 34 of	 the  IndianPenal Code is that the accused is unmistakably told that  heparticipated  in the crime.  Where it cannot be	 ascertainedwho struck the fatal blow no conviction can follow unless  acommon intention is proved.  But the converse does not	holdgood.Per  JAGANNADHADAS  and CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR  JJ.  (IMAM  J.agreeing).   Sections  226, 227, 232(1), 237,  535  and	 537indicate  that	in the generality of cases the	omission  toframe  a charge is not per se fatal.  It is not,  therefore,correct to say that where there is no charge the  convictionmust  be  illegal,  prejudice or no prejudice.	 Nor  is  itcorrect to say that s. 535 is sufficiently wide to apply  toevery  case  where there is no charge of any kind  from	 theoutset.	  The  section	cannot	be  construed  in  such	  anunlimited  sense  and  must normally be	 read  in  the	samecontext as ss. 225,226 and 232, that is, with reference to atrial that validly commenced, for there may be cases where atrial  without	any kind of charge from the outset  will  bewholly	contrary to the provisions of the Code and  as	suchillegal without the necessity of a positive finding of	pre-judice.The   provisions  of  S.  535  mainly  apply  to  cases	  ofinadvertence  to frame a charge induced by the	belief	thatthe matter on record is sufficient to warrant the convictionfor  a particular offence without express specification	 andwhere  the facts proved constitute a separate  and  distinctoffence	 but  closely relevant to and springing out  of	 thesame set of facts connected with the one charged.The Code requires that in a sessions trial there should be a1143charge	in  writing.   A deliberate  breach  of	 this  basicrequirement  cannot be covered by the assertion	 that  everything was orally explained to the accused, the assessors  orjurors	and  there  was no prejudice.	So  also  where	 theconviction  is for a totally different offence from the	 onecharged and not covered by ss. 236 and 237 of the Code,	 theomission  to frame a separate charge would be  an  incurableirregularity amounting to illegality.In  cases  coming under ss. 34, 114 and 149  of	 the  IndianPenal  Code the charge against persons actuated by a  commonintention is a rolled-up one.  It involves direct  liabilityand  constructive liability without distinct  specification.The  absence of a charge under one or other of	the  variousheads of criminal Liability for the offence in such cases isnot  fatal  and a conviction for  the  substantive  offence,without	 a  charge,  can be set aside only  where  there  isprejudice.In  considering	 whether  a  defect  is	 illegal  or  merelyirregular,  several  facts  will  have	to  be	 considered,including  its gravity to determine if it falls	 within	 oneclass or the other.  The answer must depend on the facts andcircumstances of each case.  If the defect is so grave	thatprejudice would necessarily be implied, it is an illegality.If less serious, it will be an irregularity and prejudice byway of failure of justice must be established.Howard v. Bodington ([1877] 2 P.D. 203), referred to.Per  IMAM J.-On the facts of the present case  the  questionraised	by  the	 reference  does not  arise.   There  is  nosubstantial  conflict of view between the two  decisions  ofthis court in Nanak Chand's case and Suraj Pal's case.Section	 233  of the Code is a mandatory provision  and	 theforce  of  its direction is not weakened by  the  fact	thatanother provision of the Code permits the conviction of	 theaccused for an offence with which he had not been charged.The total absence of a charge from the beginning to the	 endwhere  it  is incumbent that a charge must be  framed  is  acontravention  of  the Code regarding the mode of  trial  itprescribes and a conviction of the accused in such a case isinvalid	 and no question of prejudice can arise.  In  cases,however,  where a charge is framed but there is an  omissionor  irregularity but the mode of trial is not  affected	 theCode  provides that the conviction may be set aside  if,  infact, a failure of justice as resulted.	 It is difficult  tolay  down any hard and fast rule as to the applicability  ofs. 535.	 That will depend on the facts of each case.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.  6  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  3rd November, 1953 of the High Court of  Judicature  atNagpur in Criminal Appeal1144No. 220 of 1953 arising out of the judgment and order  datedthe  21st  July	 1953  of the Court  of	 Sessions  Judge  atJabalpur in Sessions Trial No. 32 of 1953.H.J.  Umrigar and Rajinder Narain, for the  appellant.	 Thecourts	below  were  wrong in convicting  the  appellant  ofmurder under s. 302 of the Indian Penal Code in the  absenceof  a  charge  framed for the offence.	 The  charge  framedagainst the appellant was different and he was never chargedindividually  of  having committed murder.  When  the  otherperson	was acquitted the charge of an offence under s.	 302read  with  s.	34 of the Indian Penal Code  falls  and	 theappellant  is  bound to be acquitted.  It is  a	 fundamentalprinciple  of  criminal law as administered  in	 India	thatthere should be a separate charge for every distinct offenceas  the accused person must have notice of the charge  whichhe  has to meet.  The only exceptions are contained  in	 ss.236,  237  and 238 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure.	 Theoffence	 of  murder under s. 302 of the	 Indian	 Penal	Codebeing separate, distinct and different from an offence unders. 302 read with 34 or an offence under s. 302 read with 149which creates a distinct head of criminal liability known asconstructive liability a conviction under s. 302 simpliciterwithout	 a charge being framed therefor is an illegality  inthe mode of trial.  Where a person has been convicted of  anoffence	 with which he has not been charged (unless  allowedby  exceptions) the prejudice is inherent in the absence  ofthe charge itself and it is unnecessary to look any further.Where  there  is  an  illegality in the	 mode  of  trial  ascontemplated in ss. 233 to 239 it is an illegality, which isnot cured by the provisions of ss. 535 and 537.	 There is nodifference  in principle between a charge under s. 302	readwith 34 and a charge under s. 302 read with 149 [See:  NanakChand v. State of Punjab ([1955] 1 S.C.R.1201), Suraj Pal v.State  of U. P. [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1332)].	 It is incorrect  tosay  that  the decision of the Privy Council  in  SubramaniaIyer's case as to what is an illegality has been modified bythe subse-1145quent  decisions  of  the Privy Council, and,  in  fact,  inBabulal	 Chowkhani's  case  Lord Wright	 in  delivering	 thejudgment  of the Board actually stated that it was taken  assettled law by both sides that the breach of the  provisionsof  s.	239 of the Code of Criminal Procedure  would  be  an'illegality'  which would vitiate the trial as opposed to  amere  'irregularity'  which  would not	vitiate	 the  trial.Similarly the courts in India have also taken the view	thata breach of any of the mandatory -provisions relating to ss.233 to 239 of the Code, would be an 'illegality' in the modeof  trial  which would vitiate the trial, as opposed  to  an'irregularity' in the course of trial which could be  cured.[See  N.A. Subramania Iyer v. King-Emperor ([1901]  28	I.A.257), Abdul Rahman v. The King-Emperor ([1926] 54 I. A. 96),Pulukuri Kotayya and Others v. King-Emperor ([1946] 74 I. A.65), Babulal Chowkhani v. King-Emperor ([1938] L.A. 65	I.A.158), Chintaman v. KingEmperor ([1945] I.L.R. 24 Patna 303),Begu and Others v. The King-Emperor ([1925] I.L.R. 6  Lahore226),  In re Boreddi Kondamma and Another (A.I.R  1948	Mad.293),  Thakur Singh and Others v. Emperor (A.I.R. 1939	All.665),  Govind Prosad v. Gomti and Others ([1908]  I.L.R.  30Cal. 288), Lang v. Willis ([1934] 52 C.W.N. 637 ), Sita Ahirv. Emperor ([1917] I.L.R. 40 Cal. 168), Bijo Gope and Othersv. Emperor (A.I.R. 1945 Pat. 376)].  Section 535 appears  inChapter	 XLV  of  the  Code  and  is  headed  "Of  irregularproceedings"  and cannot possibly apply to breaches  of	 themandatory  provisions of ss. 233 to 239 of the Code; it	 mayrelate	to  those  cases where it is  optional	to  frame  acharge.	 See ss. 263, 362(4).Assuming  that	actual prejudice is necessary, then  as	 theonly  charge  against the appellant being one under  s.	 302read with s. 34, and that having failed due to the acquittalof  the	 co-accused, and the appellant	having	successfullyshown  that there was no "common intention" as	contemplatedby  s.	34 of the Indian Penal Code prejudice  is  bound  tooccur  due to his conviction under s. 302 simpliciter,	withwhich he was never charged. In any event, the1146offence	 committed  in the case, even though  the  blow	 wasstruck	on  the	 head, could never be murder,  as  even	 themedical evidence showed that the bead injury "was likely" toresult	in fatal consequences.	The offence committed  wouldeither	 be   one  of  grievous	 hurt  under  s.   325,	  oralternatively,	it is covered by exception 4 to s. 300,	 andpunishable under the second part of s. 304.B.Sen  and  I.	N. Shroff, for	the  respondent.   The	word'illegality'  which is frequently used in the  judgments  isnowhere	 defined in the Code of Criminal.  Procedure.	Thisword  had been used by the judges to convey that  the  trialhas been irregular and the irregularity is not curable underthe provisions of the Code.  The word has been used in threesenses, namely: (a) In cases where the trial and  convictionare  ab initio void due to some inherent defect, which	goesto the root and is by itself enough to vitiate the trial, asin cases of lack of jurisdiction, e.g., where s. 197 of	 theCode  has  not	been complied with; (b)	 In  cases  where  amandatory  prohibition of the Code has been disregarded	 andit is apparent from the provision itself that, having regardto its objects and purposes, such disregard is bound to leadto  prejudice;	(c)  In a more popular sense,  that  is,  inrespect of a particular case or cases where having regard tothe facts and circumstances, whether it be due to  prejudiceor   otherwise,	  the  conviction   cannot   be	  sustained.Proceeding  on the basis that an offence under s.  302	readwith  s.  149  is a distinct and separate  offence  from  anoffence under s. 302, the question is whether in the absenceof actual prejudice the conviction of a person of the latteroffence,  when	he  is	only charged  with  the	 former,  isillegal.  The  answer  depends on the  determination  as  towhether the failure to frame a charge is such a disregard ofthe  mandatory Provisions of the Code so as to lead  to	 theconclusion  that prejudice must have been caused.  In N.  A.Subramania  Iyer  v. King-Emperor ([1901] 28 I.A.  257)	 thedecision was based on the facts of the case in which  actualprejudice  was caused.	In any event, that  decision  standsmodified by the1141decisions  of  the Privy Council in the later  cases:  [See,Abdul  Rahman  v. The King-Emperor ([1926] 54 I.A.  96)	 andPulukuri Kotayya and Others v. King-Emperor ([1946] 74	I.A.65).  It is clear from those decisions that every breach  ofa  mandatory  provision	 is not such  as  would	 ipso  factovitiate a trial.  If one looks at the relevant sections, theobject	behind	the enactment of those	provisions  and	 theintention  of the legislature, it is clear that the  framingof a charge though mandatory is not of a vital nature.	 Seess. 210, 254,271, 221, 222, 223, 225, 226, 227, 232 and 535.All  that  the Code contemplates is that an  accused  personmust  in fact receive notice of what be is being tried	for.When  a person is charged with an offence under s. 302	readwith  s. 149 of the Indian Penal Code there is no  objectionto  his being convicted under s. 302 without a charge  beingframed,	 if  it	 appears  from	the  evidence  that  he	 hascommitted  the actual murder and it appears from the  recordthat  either by the trend of cross-examination or by  reasonof  questions  being put to him under s. 342  he  understoodthat  he was actually being tried for murder:  [See  KarnailSingh  and  Another v. The State of Punjab ([1954].  8	C.R.904)  and  Lachman  Singh and Others v.	 The  State  ([1952]S.C.R. 839)].  A case of this nature may even be covered  bythe provisions of s. 237 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure.The cases of Nanak Chand v. State of Punjab ([1955] 1 S.C.R.1201) and Suraj Pal v. State of U.P. ([1955] 1 S.C.R. 1332),do not lay down the proposition that even in the absence  ofprejudice conviction of a person under s. 302 who is chargedwith an offence under s. 302 read with s. 149, would be ipsofacto illegal.	Whatever view the Court takes in respect  ofa  conviction under s. 302 when a person is charged with  s.302 read with s. 149, it is quite clear that a person can bevalidly	 convicted of murder when he is charged with s.	 302read  with  s. 34.  Section 34 does not	 create	 a  specificoffence	 and a person who is charged under s. 302 read	withs.  34	is really being charged for his act  in	 the  murderitself.	  It is therefore not necessary to frame a  separatecharge under s. 302.  The Privy Council as well as the High1148Courts in India have always taken this view.  See' The King-Emperor	 v.  Barendra Kumar Ghose (A.I.R.  1924	 Cal.  257),Emperor v. Destrali ([1930] 58 Cal. 822), Debiprasad Kalowarv. Emperor ([1932] 59 Cal. 1192), Devki Nandan and Others v.Emperor	 (A.I.R.  1941	Lah. 423) and Bhondu  Das  v.  King-Emperor	 ([1928]  7 Patna 758).	 In this case there  was  noactual	prejudice  as  the accused knew that  he  was  beingcharged with murder which is clear from the trend of  cross-examinations  of witnesses and his examination under s.	 342of  the Code of Criminal Procedure.  The facts clearly	showthat  the offence committed by the accused is one of  murderas the deceased died as a result of injuries and the  injurywas  sufficient	 to cause death according  to  the  doctor'sevidence.Umrigar in reply.  If s. 535 is given its literal meaning itwould  mean that a trial for any offence could be  held	 andterminated without the framing of any charge whatsoever.  Itwould also mean that a person could be charged with a  minoroffence and convicted of a major offence, whereas s.  238(2)only allows conviction of a minor offence without a  charge,if the major offence with which the person is charged is notmade  out.   It	 would	further	 mean  that  the   elaborateprocedure set out in ss. 226 to 231 as to the alteration andamendment  of charges could be ignored.	 Further s. 271	 (1)which  provides	 that  the  charge shall  be  read  out	 andexplained  to  the accused would  also	become	meaningless.Such  a wide meaning which would lead to absurdities  shouldnot be given to s. 535. 1955.	October 31.  The judgment of S. R. Das, Acting	C.J.and  Bose  J.  was  delivered by Bose  J.  The	judgment  ofJagannadhadas and Chandrasekhara Aiyar JJ. was delivered  byChandrasekhara	Aiyar J. Jafer Imam J. delivered a  separatejudgment.BOSE  J.-This appeal was referred to a Bench of five  Judgesin  order to determine whether there was a conflict of	viewbetween Nanak Chand v. The State of Punjab(1) and Suraj	 Palv. The State of U.P.(2) and(1) [1955] I S.C.R. 1201.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1332.1149if so, to determine it.The  appeal is against a conviction for murder in which	 thelesser	sentence  was given.  The main ground  is  that	 theappellant was charged under section 302 of the Indian  PenalCode read with section 34. His co-accused was acquitted, so,it was urged, the element of common intention drops out	 andaccordingly  section  34 cannot be called in aid.   But	 theCourts	below  hold that the appellant inflicted  the  fatalblow  and have made him directly liable for the murder.	  Hecontends that as he was not charged with having murdered theman personally be cannot be convicted under section 302.  Herelies	on certain observations in Nanak Chand v. The  Stateof  Punjab(1)  and  contends  that  the	 conviction  is	  anillegality  which  cannot be cured and claims that  he	musteither	be acquitted or, at the most, be retried, though  beadds  further  that in the circumstances of  this  case	 theCourt  should not in the exercise of its discretion order  aretrial.  As against this it is contended for the State thatan  omission to frame a separate charge in  the	 alternativeunder  section	302 simpliciter is  a  curable	irregularityprovided  there is no prejudice to the accused.	  Therefore,the  only  matter for determination is a  question  of	factwhether there was prejudice in this case.  The charge was as follows:"That  you,  on or about the 12th day of February  1953,  atCivil Lines, Jabalpur, went with your brother Ronnie  Slaneyto the house of Mrs. Waters (P.W. 20) at about 7 p.m. and infurtherance  of	 the common intention did commit  murder  byintentionally or knowingly causing the death of her  brotherD. Smythe and thereby committed an offence punishable  undersection 302 of the Indian Penal Code read with section 34 ofthe Indian Penal Code...........".An exactly similar charge with the necessary change of	namewas framed against the co-accused Ronnie Slaney.It was contended on behalf of the State that this is  reallya charge under section 302 of the Indian(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1201,1150Penal  Code and that the references to common intention	 andto section 34 are mere surplusage.  There is much to be saidfor  this  but	we  will assume in  this  case	(without  sodeciding)  that	 the charge is ambiguous and that  it  meanswhat  the  appellant says it means, namely  a  charge  undersection	 302 read with section 34 and not one under  section302  simpliciter.  On that assumption the question  for	 ourdecision  is  whether the omission to frame  an	 alternativecharge	under  section 302 of the Indian Penal	Code  is  anillegality that cuts at the root of the conviction and makesnot invalid or whether it is a curable irregularity in whichall  that  we  are concerned to see  is	 whether  there	 wasprejudice.   What it narrows down to is this: Is the  chargeto  be	regarded  as a ritualistic  formula  so	 sacred	 andfundamental that a total absence of one, or any departure init  from the strict and technical requirements of the  Code,is  so vital as to cut at the root of the trial and  vitiateit from the start, or is it one of many regulations designedto  ensure a fair and proper trial so that  substantial,  asopposed to purely technical, compliance with the spirit	 andrequirements  of the Code in this behalf is enough  to	curedepartures from the strict letter of the law?Before	we  proceed to set out our answer  and	examine	 theprovisions  of the Code, we will pause to observe  that	 theCode  is a code of procedure and, like all procedural  laws,is  designed  to  further the ends of  justice	and  not  tofrustrate    them   by	 the   introduction    of    endlesstechnicalities.	 The object of the Code is to ensure that anaccused	 person	 gets a full and fair  trial  along  certainwell-established and well-understood lines that accord	withour notions of natural justice.	 If he does, if he is  triedby a competent court, if be is told and clearly	 understandsthe  nature of the offence for which he is being  tried,  ifthe  case against him is fully and fairly explained  to	 himand he is afforded a full and fair opportunity of  defendinghimself, then, provided there is substantial compliance withthe  outward forms of the law, mere mistakes  in  procedure,mere in consequential errors and omissions1151in the trial are regarded as venal by the Code and the trialis  not	 vitiated unless the accused  can  show	 substantialprejudice.   That, broadly speaking, is the basic  principleon which the Code is based.Now  here,  as in all procedural laws,	certain	 things	 areregarded as vital.  Disregard of a provision-of that  natureis   fatal  to	the  trial  and	 at  once  invalidates	 theconviction.    Others  are  not	 vital	and   whatever	 theirregularity  they  can	 be cured; and	in  that  event	 theconviction  must  stand unless the Court is  satisfied	thatthere  was prejudice.  Some of these matters are dealt	withby  the Code and wherever that is the case full effect	mustbe given to its provisions.  The question here is, does	 theCode deal with the absence of a charge and irregularities init,  and  if so, into which of the two	categories  does  itplace  them?  But before looking into the Code, we  deem  itdesirable to refer to certain decisions of the Privy Councilbecause	 much of the judicial thinking in this	country	 hasbeen  moulded  by their observations.  In our  opinion,	 thegeneral	 effect	 of  those decisions can  be  summarised  asfollows.First comes a class of case in which the Code deals with thematter expressly.  In that event, full effect must be  givento the plain meaning of the words used."The  language	of  that Code is  conclusive,  and  must  beconstrued  according to ordinary principles, so as  to	giveeffect to the plain meaning of the language used.  No doubt,in the case of an ambiguity, that meaning must be  preferredwhich is more in accord with justice and convenience, but ingeneral the words used read in their context must  prevail".Babulal Choukhani v. The King-Emperor(1).And at page 177-"But,  even so, that can be no ground why the  Court  shouldmisconstrue the section".and at page 178-,"Their Lordships decide the question on what they regard asthe plain meaning of the language used".(1)  [1938] L.R. 65 I.A. 158, 175.1152Next  comes  a class of case for which there is	 no  expressprovision in the Code, or where there is ambiguity.  In thatevent, the question is whether the trial has been  conductedin  substantial	 compliance  with the Code or  in  a  mannersubstantially different from that prescribed."When  a trial is conducted in a manner different from	thatprescribed  by	the  Code (as in  N.  A.  Subramania  Iyer'scase(1)),  the	trial is bad and no question  of  curing  anirregularity   arises;	but  if	 the  trial   is   conductedsubstantially in the manner prescribed by the Code, but someirregularity  occurs  in  the course of	 such  conduct,	 theirregularity  can be cured under section 537, and  none	 theless  so because the irregularity involves, as	must  nearlyalways	be  the case, a breach of one or more  of  the	verycomprehensive provisions of the Code".	Pulukuri Kotayya  v.King-Emperor(2).Now   it  is  obvious  that  the  question  of	 curing	  anirregularity can only arise when one or more of the  expressprovisions  of the Code is violated.  The question  in	suchcases is whether the departure is so violent as to strike atthe root of the trial and make it no trial at all or is of aless vital character.  It is impossible to lay down any hardand  fast rule but taken by and large the  question  usuallynarrows	 down to one of prejudice.  In any case, the  courtsmust  be guided by the plain provisions of the Code  withoutstraining  at  its  language wherever there  is	 an  expressprovision.For  a time it was thought that all provisions of  the	Codeabout  the  mode  of  trial were so vital  as  to  make	 anydeparture  therefrom an illegality that could not be  cured.That  was due- to the language of the Judicial Committee  inN.A. Subramania Iyer v. KingEmperor(1).Later this was construed to mean that that only applies whenthere is an express prohibition and there is prejudice.	  InSubramania Iyer's case(1), the Privy Council said-"The remedying of mere irregularities is familiar(1) [1901] L.R. 28 I.A. 257, 263.(2) [1917] L.R. 74 I.A. 66, 75.1153in  most  systems  of  jurisprudence, but  it  would  be  anextraordinary  extension of such a branch  of  administeringthe criminal law to say that when the Code positively enactsthat  such a trial as that which has taken place here  shallnot  be permitted that this contravention of the Code  comeswithin the description of error, omission or irregularity".This was examined and explained in Abdul Rahman v.     King-Emperor(1) as follows:"The  procedure	 adopted was one which the  Code  positivelyprohibited,  and it was possible that it might	have  workedactual injustice to the accused".In  our	 opinion, the key to the problem lies in  the  wordsunderlined.  Except where there is something so vital as  tocut at the root of jurisdiction or so abhorrent to what	 onemight term natural justice, the matter resolves itself to  aquestion of prejudice.	Some violations of the Code will  beso  obvious  that  they will speak for	themselves  as,	 forexample, a refusal to give the accused a hearing, a  refusalto  allow  him to defend himself, a refusal to	explain	 thenature	of the charge to him and so forth.  These go to	 thefoundations  of natural justice and would be struck down  asillegal	 forthwith.  It hardly matters whether this  is	 be-cause prejudice is then patent or because it is so abhorrentto well-establisbed notions of natural justice that a  trialof  that  kind is only a mockery of a trial and not  of	 thekind  envisaged by the laws of our land, because either	 waythey  would be struck down at once.  Other  violations	willnot be so obvious and it may be possible to show that havingregard to all that occurred no prejudice was -occasioned  orthat  there was no reasonable probability of prejudice.	  Instill  another class of case, the matter may be so near	 theborder line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possi-bility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of theaccused.This, in our opinion, has been the trend of the more  recentdecisions  of  the Privy Council and  indeed  of  latter-daycriminal jurisprudence in England as well as in India.	 Theswing of the pendulum has been(1)  [1926] L.R. 54 I.A. 96, 109.1154away  from  technicality, and a greater endeavour  has	beenmade  to regard the substance rather than the shadow and  toadminister  Justice fairly and impartially as it  should  beadministered;  fair  to the accused, fair to the  State	 andfair  to  the vast mass of the people for  whose  protectionpenal laws are made and administered.The more recent attitude of the Judicial Committee is summed-up  by	 Sir  John Beaumont in	Pulukuri  Kotayya  v.  King-Emperor(1) where he says that-"The distinction drawn in many of the cases in India betweenan  illegality and an irregularity is one of  degree  ratherthan of kind"and by Viscount Sumner in Atta Mohammad v. King-Emperor(2)-"In  the complete absence of any substantial  injustice,  inthe  complete absence of anything that outrages what is	 dueto  natural justice in criminal cases, their Lordships	findit impossible to advise His Majesty to interfere".We  prefer this way of stating the law, for the	 distinctionthat  was  once	 sought	 to  be	 drawn	between	 an  expressprohibition  and  an equally  express  provision  positivelystated	strikes	 us  as unreal.	 The real  question  is	 notwhether	 a  matter is expressed positively or is  stated  innegative  terms	 but  whether  disregard  of  a	  particularprovision  amounts  to	substantial denial  of	a  trial  ascontemplated by the Code and understood by the comprehensiveexpression  "Natural  justice".	 It will  be  observed	thatdisregard of ail express Prohibition was regarded as curablein Zahiruddin v. King-Emperor(3), so the question whether  aparticular  provision is stated in positive or	in  negativeterms is not the true criterion.It  is possible (though we need not so decide in this  case)that  the  recent amendment to section 537 in  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  (Amendment)  Act XXVI  of	1955,  wheremisjoinder  of	charges	 has  been  placed  in	the  curablecategory, will set at rest the(1) [1947] L.R. 74 I.A. 65, 75.	 (2) [1929] L.R. 57 I.A. 71,76.   (3) [1947] L.R. 74 I.A. 80,1155controversy that has raged around the true meaning of N.  A.Subramania  Iyer  v.  King-Emperor(1).	 In  any  case,	 ouropinion	 is  that the real object of the Code  is  to  leavethese matters to the discretion and vigilance of the courts.Slightly  to  alter  the language of the  Privy	 Council  inBabulal Choukhani v. The KingEmperor(2) we would say-"It must be hoped, and indeed assumed, that magistrates	 andjudges will exercise their jurisdiction fairly and honestly.Such  is the implied condition of the exercise	of  judicialpower.	 If they do not, or if they go wrong in fact  or  inlaw, the accused has prima facie a right of recourse to	 thesuperior courts by way of appeal or revision; and the  casesshow bow vigilant and resolute the High Courts are in seeingthat  the  accused  is	not  prejudiced	 or  embarrassed  byunsubstantial  departures from the Code and bow closely	 andjealously  the	Supreme	 Court guards the  position  of	 theaccused.   These  safeguards may well have appeared  to	 theLegislature to be sufficient when they enacted the  remedialprovisions of the Code and have now left them  substantiallyunaltered in the new Code recently introduced".This,  we  feel, is the true intent and purpose	 of  section537(a) which covers every proceeding taken with jurisdictionin  the	 general  phrase "or other  proceedings	 under	thisCode".	It is for the Court in all these cases to  determinewhether	 there	has been prejudice to the  accused;  and  indoing  so  to  bear  in mind that  some	 violations  are  soobviously opposed to natural justice and the true intendmentof  the Code that on the face of them and  without  anythingelse  they  must  be struck, down, while in  other  cases  acloser	examination of all the circumstances will be  calledfor  in order to discover whether the accused has been	pre-judiced.We now proceed to examine the relevant sections of the Code.Chapter	 XLV  deals generally  with  irregular	proceedings.There  are certain irregularities which do not	vitiate	 theproceedings.  They are set out in section 529.	No  questionof prejudice arises,(1)  [1901] L.R. 28 I.A. 257. 146(2) [1938] L.R. 5 I.A. 158,177.1156in  this  class	 of case because the  section  states  cate-gorically  that	 they  shall not  vitiate  the	proceedings.Certain other irregularities are treated as vital and  therethe  proceedings are void irrespective of prejudice.   Theseare set out in section 530.  A third class is dealt with  insections  531,	532,  533, 535, 536  (2)  and  537.   There,broadly	 speaking,  the question is whether  the  error	 hascaused prejudice to the accused or, as some of the  sectionsput  it, has occasioned a failure of justice.  The  exampleswe have given are illustrative and not exhaustive.  What  weare  seeking to demonstrate is that the Code  has  carefullyclassified  certain kinds of error and	expressly  indicatesbow they are to be dealt with.	In every such case the Courtis  bound  to  give effect to the express  commands  of	 thelegislature: there is no scope for further speculation.	 Theonly  class of case in which the Courts are free to reach  adecision is that for which no express provision is made.The present case is concerned with the nature of the  chargeand  we	 find  that the Code expressly deals  with  this  inseveral	 of  its sections.  Our only task  therefore  is  tointerpret them and, having propounded their meaning, to giveeffect to whatever they say.Now there is no doubt that a charge forms the foundation  ofa  sessions trial and is a most important step in  it.	 Theaccused must know and understand what he is being tried	 forand must be told in clear and unambiguous terms: section 271(1).  There can be no shirking that or slurring over it, andthis  must appear on the face of the record.  It  cannot  beestablished  by evidence taken after the trial.	  But  thereis, in our opinion, equally no doubt that the Code expresslydeals  with  this  and expressly  provides  that  no  error,omission  or  irregularity  in the  charge,  or	 even  totalabsence of a charge, shall vitiate a trial unless  prejudiceto the accused is shown.  This is repeatedly reiterated in anumber of sections.  The whole question therefore is whetherthe  "charge"  must  be	 formally  reduced  to	writing	 andexpressed  as  a ritualistic formula in order  to  save	 thetrial	from  the'  fundamental	 defect.  of  an   incurableillegality or1157whether the information that is the substance of the  mattercan  be conveyed in other ways.	 The question is whether  weare  to grasp at the substance or play hide and	 seek  amongthe shadows of procedure.First  of  all,	 sections  221 to 223  of  the	Code,  whichundoubtedly envisage a formal written charge, set out what acharge must contain.  A perusal of them reveals the  reasonswhy a charge is required.  It must set out the offence	withwhich  the accused is charged and if the law  which  createsthe  offence does not give it any specific name, so much  ofthe definition of the offence must be stated "as to give theaccused notice of the matter with which he is charged".	 Thecharge	must  also contain such particulars of	date,  time,place  and person "as are reasonably sufficient to give	 theaccused notice of the matter with which he is charged";	 andsection 223 says-"When.the  nature of the case is such that  the	 particularsmentioned  in sections 221 and 222 do not give	the  accusedsufficient  notice of the matter with which he	is  charged,the charge shall also contain such particulars of the mannerin  which  the	alleged offence was  committed	as  will  besufficient for that purpose".It  is clear to us that the object of the charge is  not  tointroduce a provision that goes to the root of	jurisdictionas, for example, the requirement of previous sanction  undersection 197, but to enable the accused to have a clear	ideaof  what  he is being tried for and of the  essential  factsthat he has to meet.  But there are other ways of  conveyingthis  information.  For example, in summons cases no  formalcharge	is  required: all that is necessary is to  tell	 theaccused	 the  substance of the accusation made	against	 him(section  242).	 The whole question is whether,	 in  warrantcases and in sessions trials, the necessary information mustbe conveyed in one way and one way only, namely in a  formalcharge in order that the entire trial may not be ipso  factovitiated because of an incurable illegality, or whether thatcan  be done in other and less formal ways, provided  alwaysthat it is in fact conveyed in a clear and unambiguous	man-ner and in circumstances that the court will regard'1158as fair and in substantial, as opposed to purely  technical,compliance with the requirements of the Code. The law  couldhave provided one way as easily as another, but what it	 haschosen to do is set out in the following sections.The  marginal  note  to section 225  is	 headed	 "Effect  oferrors." and the section states that-"No  error in stating either the offence or the	 particularsrequired  to  be stated in the charge, and  no	omission  tostate the offence or those particulars, shall be regarded atany stage of the case as material, unless the accused was infact misled by such error or omission, and it has occasioneda  failure of justice".	 Therefore, when there is  a  chargeand  there  is either error or omission in it or  both,	 andwhatever  its nature, it is not to be regarded	as  materialunless	two  conditions	 are fulfilled	both  of  which	 arematters of fact: (1) the accused has in fact been misled  byit and (2) it has occasioned a failure of justice.  That, inour opinion, is reasonably plain language.Next, sections 226 and 227 show that errors in a charge, andeven  the total absence of a charge, do not vitiate a  trialfrom  the start so as to render it no trial at all as  wouldthe absence of sanction under section 197.  This is  evidentbecause	 these errors and omissions can be remedied  at	 anytime  during the course of the trial in the  sessions  Court(section 226) or even at the very end of the trial  (section227),  and when this is done the trial need not	 proceed  denovo  but can go on from the stage at which  the  alterationwas made provided neither side is prejudiced (section  228).That is conclusive to show that no error or omission in	 thecharge,	 and not even a total absence of a charge,  cuts  atthe  root of the trial.	 The proceedings up to the stage  ofthe alteration, which, as ,we have seen, can be at the	veryend  of	 the  trial,  are  not	vitiated  unless  there	  isprejudice; they are good despite these imperfections.	Thatis  impossible when the error is so vital as to cut  at	 theroot  of the trial.  It follows that errors in	the  charge,and even a total absence of a charge, are not placed in	 thenon-curable class.1159Next, we have a case in which the error is not observed	 andcorrected during the trial and the accused is convicted.  Insuch a case, the High Court is empowered to direct a retrialonly  if,  in its opinion, the accused was  "misled  in	 hisdefence"  (section 232).  It is to be observed that this  isso  whether there was a total absence of a charge or  merelyan  error  in it.  It is evident that  a  conviction  cannotstand if the defect cuts at the root of the trial, thereforedefects even of this nature are not regarded as fatal.From there we proceed to section 535.  The marginal note  is"Effect	 of  omission to prepare charge",  and	the  sectionsays-"No finding or sentence pronounced or passed shall be deemedinvalid	 merely	 on the ground that no	charge	was  framed,unless, in the opinion of the Court of appeal or revision, afailure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby".Here again the language is clear and wide and emphatic.	 Thesection	 summarises what was already indicated	in  sections226, 227, 228 and 232.  Next, there is section 537:"Subject  to etc no finding, sentence or order passed  by  aCourt of competent jurisdiction shall be reversed or alteredunder Chapter XXVLI or on appeal or revision on account-(a)  of	   any	 error,	  omission   or	  irregularity	  inthe  .......... charge...... or other proceedings before  orduring trial..........      ........................................unless	such  error,  omission,	 irregularity  has  in	factoccasioned a failure of justice".The Explanation is also important:"In determining whether any error, omission or	irregularityin  any proceeding under this Code has occasioned a  failureof justice, the Court shall have regard to the fact  whetherthe  objection	could  and should have	been  raised  at  anearlier stage in the proceedings".This  repeats what was set out in greater detail in  section225 and is all the more impressive because1160even  when a death sentence is under review in	confirmationproceedings  under  Chapter  XXVII the	Court  is  expresslydirected  not to regard any error, omission or	irregularityin  the charge as fatal unless it has in fact  occasioned  afailure	 of justice.  Reading these provisions as  a  whole,there is, in our opinion, no room left for doubt about	whatwas intended.It was argued on behalf of the appellant that these sectionsmust be read along with sections 236, 237 and 238.   Counselconceded that there are occasions when an accused person canbe  convicted  in the absence of a charge but he  said	thatthey  are expressly set out in sections 237 and 238  and  hecontended that no further departure is permissible.  He	 puthis argument as follows.  He said that sections 237 and	 238deal with cases in which there is a charge to start with butnone to support a conviction for an offence which the  Courtfeels  is made out by the evidence.  These  sections  definethe  limits within which the Court may convict in  spite  ofthe  fact  that	 there	is no  charge  for  that  particularoffence.   When	 section 535 is read along  with  these	 twosections it is seen that it cannot apply to a case in  whichthere is no charge at all, nor can it apply to any case thatis  not	 covered by these two sections.	 It  is	 limited  tocases  in  which sections 237 and 238  permit  a  convictionwithout a charge.In answer to this the following argument was put to  counseland  be was asked to meet it.  The point was put  this	way.Section 535 cures convictions that would be invalid but	 forits  provisions.  This, it was said, follows from the  words"shall	be  deemed invalid".  It was  suggested	 that  thesewords  show that a conviction without a charge is  in  truthand  in	 fact invalid but that it can be  cured	 in  certaincases, and when that is done, that which in truth is invalidis deemed not to be invalid because of this section.  But assections 237 and 238 expressly permit convictions in certaincases without a charge for those offences, provided there isa  charge  in  the case to start with,	the  convictions  sopermitted  cannot  be invalid or even irregular	 because  itwould  be  wrong to say that that which the  Code  expresslyallows is, or can be,1161irregular.   Therefore,	 section 535 cannot apply  to  casescovered	 by  sections 237 and 238.  The result	is  that  inthese  cases  no  question  of	prejudice  can	arise;	 theconvictions  are good, prejudice or no	prejudice.   Counselreplied	 that  even  if that is so,  section  535  is  stillgoverned  by  section 233 and so cannot apply  to  cases  inwhich there is no charge at all.We do not agree with either view.  In our opinion, the casescontemplated  by  section 237 are just as much	a  departurefrom  section  233 as are those envisaged in  sections	225,226,  227, 228, 535 and 537 Sections 236, 237 and  238	dealwith joinder of charges and so does section 233.  The  firstcondition is that there shall be a separate charge for	eachoffence	 and  the second is that each charge must  be  triedseparately  except in the cases mentioned in  sections	234,235  and 236.  It is to be observed that the exceptions	 areconfined  to the rule about joinder of charges and  that  noexception  is  made to that part of the rule  that  requiresseparate  charges  for each offence.  It will be  seen	thatthough	sections 234, 235 and 236 are  expressly  mentioned,section	 237  is  not  referred	 to,  nor  is  section	238.Therefore, so far as section 233 is concerned, there can  beno doubt that it requires a separate charge for each offenceand  does not envisage a situation in which there is  eitherno  charge  at all or where, there being a charge  for	someother  offence of which the accused is acquitted, he can  beconvicted  instead  of something else for which be  was	 notcharged.   We  are  unable to hold  that  the  Code  regardssections 237 and 238 as part of the normal procedure.What  then is the position if there is some  departure	fromthe  normal procedure?	In our opinion, sections  225,	226)227, 228, 535 and 537 furnish the answer and they apply withequal  force  to every kind of departure from that  part  ofsection	 233  that  requires  a	 separate  charge  for	eachoffence.  Section 237 is only a corollary to section 236 andis  there  to emphasise that even when a number	 of  chargescould be joined together in the cases set out in section 236and  one  or more are not put in, oven then,  there  can  beconvictions in respect of those offences despite the1162absence of a charge or charges.	 But all these sections	 aregoverned by the overriding rule about prejudice mentioned inone form or another in sections 225, 226, 227, 228, 535	 and537.   We  think  it  would be	monstrous  to  bold  that  aconviction cannot be set aside even when gross prejudice  isproved in cases covered by section 237 just because it	doesnot  speak of prejudice.  We can envisage cases where  therewould be grave prejudice under that section just as  clearlyas  we	can see cases where there would be  none  under	 theothers.The sort of problem that we are now examining can only arisewhen  an express provision of the Code is violated and	thenthe root of the matter is not whether there is violation  ofan express provision, for the problem postulates that  theremust  be,  nor is it whether the provision is  expressed  inpositive or in negative terms, but what are the consequencesof  such  disregard.  Does it result in an  illegality	thatstrikes	 at the root of the trial and cannot be cured or  isit an irregularity that is curable?We  have  used	the terms  "illegality"	 and  "irregularity"because they have acquired a technical significance and	 areconvenient to demarcate a distinction between two classes ofcase.	They were first used by the Privy Council in  N.  A.Subramania  Iyer v. KingEmperor(1) and repeated	 in  BabulalChoukhani  v.  King-Emperor(2 ) and in Pulukuri	 Kotayya  v.King-Emperor(3), but it is to be observed that the Code doesnot use the term "illegality".	It refers to both classes as"irregularities"; some vitiate the proceedings (section 530)and  others  do not (section 529).   Proceedings  that	comeunder  the  former head are "void".  Section  535  uses	 thewords "shall be deemed invalid" which indicate that a  totalomission  to  frame  a charge would  render  the  convictioninvalid but for section 535 which serves to validate it whenthat sort of "irregularity" has not occasioned a "failure ofjustice".  Section 537 does not use any of these expressionsbut merely says that no conviction or(1)  [1901] L.R. 28 I.A. 257.  (2) [1938] L.R. 65 I.A.	158,174. (3) [1947] L.R. 74 I.A. 65,75.1163sentence "shall be reversed or altered" unless there has  infact been a failure of justice.We  do not attach any special significance to  these  terms.They are convenient expressions to convey a thought and thatis  all.  The essence of the matter does not lie there.	  Itis embedded in broader considerations of justice that cannotbe  reduced  to a set formula of words or rules.   It  is  afeeling,  a  way  of thinking and of living  that  has	beencrystallized  into judicial thought and is summed up in	 theadmittedly   vague   and  indefinite   expression   "naturaljustice": something that is incapable of being reduced to  aset formula of words and yet which is easily recognisable bythose  steeped	in judicial thought and tradition.   In	 theend, it all narrows down to this: some things are "illegal",that  is  to say, not curable, because	the  Code  expresslymakes  them so; others are struck down by the good sense  ofjudges who, whatever expressions they may use, do so becausethose  things occasion prejudice and offend their  sense  offair play and justice.	When so struck down, the  convictionis  "invalid";	when not, it is good whatever  the  "irregu-larity".   It  matters	little whether	this  is  called  an"illegality",  an "irregularity that cannot be cured" or  an"invalidity",  so  long as the terms are used in  a  clearlydefined sense.Turning	 next  to the second branch of	the  argument  aboutsection 535.  We cannot agree that because sections 237	 and238  expressly	permit convictions without a charge  in	 thecases contemplated by them, therefore they lift them out  ofthe Chapter on Irregularities, because, if they do, then  sodoes  section  232  (1) in the cases with  which  it  deals.Between	 them,	these sections cover every kind of  case  inwhich  there  is  an error, omission or	 irregularity  in  acharge	and an omission to frame a charge, so,	if  sections232(1) and 237 and 238 save departures from section 233 frombeing  irregularities,	then  there  is	 nothing  left	 forsections  535  and 537 to operate on.  In our  opinion,	 thetruth  is that the Code deals with the	same  subject-matterunder different heads, so there is some overlapping.1471164Sections  222  to  224 deal with the form of  a	 charge	 andexplain	 what a charge should contain.	Section,  225  dealswith  the effect of errors relating to a  charge.   Sections233  to 240 deal with the joinder of charges.  Sections	 535and  537 are in the Chapter that deals	with  irregularitiesgenerally and these two sections deal specifically with	 thecharge and make it clear that an omission to frame a  chargeas  well as irregularities, errors and omission in a  chargeare  all irregularities that do not vitiate or invalidate  aconviction unless there is prejudice.But,  apart from that, if we examine the  learned  counsel'scontention more closely the fallacy in his argument  becomesclear.	Sections 237 and 238 deal with cases in which  thereis a charge to start with and then they go on to say that incertain	 cases	the  trial can	proceed	 beyond	 the  matteractually  charged and a conviction for an offence  disclosedin  the evidence in that type of case will be  good  despitethe  absence  of a charge in respect of it.   But  what	 arethose cases?  Only those- in which the additional charge  orcharges	 could have been framed from the start; and that  iscontrolled  by sections 234, 235 and 239 which set  out	 therules about joinder of charges and persons.It  is	evident	 that if charges A and	B  cannot  be  triedtogether because of the prohibition in section 233 read withsections  234,	235  and 239, then no  conviction  could  besustained  on  either A or B, and if that is the  case	whenspecific  charges  are drawn up it is all the more  so	whenthough	there is a charge in respect of A there is  none  inrespect	 of  B, for clearly you cannot	do  indirectly	thatwhich you are prohibited from doing directly.In our  opinionsections  233 to 240 deal with joinder of charges  and	theymust  be read together and not in isolation. They  all	dealwith  the same subject-matter and set out different  aspectsof it.	When they are read as a whole, it becomes clear thatsections  237  and 238 cover every type of case in  which  aconviction can be sustained when there is no charge for thatoffence provided there is a charge to start with.1165They do not deal with a case in which there is no charge  atall,  and  anything travelling beyond that when there  is  acharge would be hit by sections 233,234, 235 and 239 read asa whole, for the reasons we have just given.  But if that isso,  and if section 535 is excluded where sections  237	 and238  apply,  then what is there left for it  to	 operate  onexcept	cases in which there is a total omission to frame  acharge?	  We do not think these sections should be  regardeddisjunctively.	In our opinion, they between them (includingsections 535 and 537) cover every possible case that relatesto  the	 charge and they place all failures to	observe	 therules	about  the  charge  in	the  category	of   curableirregularities.	  Chapter  XIX	deals  comprehensively	withcharges	 and sections 535 and 537 cover every case in  whichthere is a departure from the rules set out in that Chapter.Such   departures   range   from   errors,   omissions	 andirregularities' in charges that are framed, down to  chargesthat might have been framed and were not and include a totalomission to frame a charge at all at any stage of the trial.In all these cases the only question is about prejudice.  Wesay this because the Code repeatedly says so in express	 andemphatic  terms and because that is the foundation on  whichrules  of  procedure  are based.  We  say  it  because	thataccords	 with logic and principle and reason and because  ittouches the deep verities on which the structure of  justiceis erected and maintained.With  the  utmost respect we cannot read the words  "by	 theabsence	 of a charge" in section 232(1) and "no	 charge	 wasframed" in section 535 to mean not what they would appear tomean  on the face of them but "where there is a	 charge	 butnone  for  the offence of which the accused  is	 convicted".That  would necessitate reading into the section words	thatare not there.	We see no reason for straining at the  mean-ing of these plain and emphatic provisions unless ritual andform  are  to  be regarded as of  the  essence	in  criminaltrials.	  We  are unable to find any magic or charm  in	 theritual of a charge.  It is the substance of these provisionsthat count and not their outward1166form.	To  hold  otherwise is only to	provide	 avenues  ofescape	for  the  guilty and afford  no	 protection  to	 theinnocent.  We agree that a man must know what offence he  isbeing  tried  for  and that he must be	told  in  clear	 andunambiguous terms and that it must all be "explained to	 him" so that he really understands (section 271(1) in  sessionstrials,	 section 255(1) in warrant cases) but to say that  atechnical  jargon  of words whose significance	no  man	 nottrained to the law can grasp or -follow affords him  greaterprotection or assistance than the informing and the explain-ing  that  are the substance of the matter, is	to  base  onfanciful theory wholly divorced from practical reality;	 andthe  same applies to the vast bulk of jurors who attend	 ourcourts.	 They are none the wiser because of a formal  chargeexcept	in a vague and general way that is of  no  practicalaccount.   The	essence	 of the matter is  not	a  technicalformula	 of  words but the reality.  Was he  told?   Was  itexplained to him?  Did he understand?  Was it done in a fairway?We  attach  equal importance to other sections of  the	Codethat  are just as emphatic as section 233, namely,  sections342 and 364; and yet no one doubts that irregularities thereare  curable.  It is the spirit of section 271 that must  beobserved in a sessions trial rather than its letter and	 theessence of that lies in the words "and explained to him".We do not mean to imply that laxness of procedure should  beencouraged  in the matter of the charge any more  than	thisCourt encourages it in matters relating to section 342;	 nordo  we mean to suggest that a trial can be regarded as	goodwhen  the accused does not know what be is being  tried	 forand  is not told and the matter is not explained to  him  assection 271 requires.  Of course, the rules should and oughtto  be punctually observed.  But judges and magistrates	 arefallible and make mistakes and the question is what is to bedone  in  the exceptional class of case in which  there	 hasbeen a disregard of some express provision.As an illustration, we give a case in which a Sessions Judgein a sessions trial having no charge1167before	him  from  the committal court omits  to  frame	 onehimself	 but instead, carefully and painstakingly,  explainsthe  particulars  and  the substance of the  offence  as  insection	 242  and  complies with the spirit  and  object  ofsection 271 but omits to observe its technical form.   Then,when  the witnesses are examined, the accused shows  by	 hiscross-examination that he knows just what he is being  triedfor.  He is examined fully and fairly under section 342	 andhis  answers  show that he is under no delusion.   He  callswitnesses  in defence to meet the very point or	 points	 theprosecution  seek  to make out against him.  He	 puts  in  awritten	 statement  and is defended by an  able	 lawyer	 whoraises no objection from start to finish.  Will a  technicaldefect	in a case like that vitiate the trial?	If the	Codesays  Yes, then there is an end of the matter.	But, in	 ouropinion,  the  Code very emphatically says No; but  even  ifthat  is not the case and even if the very plain  and  clearwords  of  sections  232  and 535  are	susceptible  of	 twomeanings,  surely they should be construed so as  to  accordwith what will best serve the ends of justice.	We have	 puta  case	 in which there neither is, nor can  be,  prejudice.Surely	it  would  be  a travesty  of  justice	to  brand  aconviction  in	a case like that as illegal.  And  yet	thatmust  be  done if these words that are otherwise  plain	 areconstrued in a strained and unnatural manner.  On the  otherhand,  there  is nothing in the view we take to	 imperil  orharass an accused however innocent he may be.  How does	 thetechnical formula of a charge afford greater protection thanthe "explaining" under section 271 (1) -and the	 examinationunder  section 342?  And yet, on the argument before us,  anomission  to  observe  these other rules  that	are  of	 thesubstance is curable when there is no prejudice but not	 thesacred	ritual	of the framing of the charge; once  that  isthere,	the accused cannot be heard to say that be  did	 notunderstand however much that may be the fact.  Surely,	thiscannot be right.Now,  as  we have said, sections 225, 232,  535	 and  537(a)between	 them,	cover every conceivable typo, of  error	 andirregularity referable to a charge that1168can  possibly arise, ranging from cases in which there is  aconviction  with no charge at all from start to finish	downto  cases  in  which  there is a  charge  but  with  errors,irregularities	and omissions in it.  The Code	is  emphaticthat  whatever the irregularity it is not to be regarded  asfatal  unless there is prejudice.  It is the substance	thatwe must seek.  Courts have to administer justice and justiceincludes  the  punishment  of  guilt just  as  much  as	 theprotection of innocence.  Neither can be done if the  shadowis  mistaken  for the substance and the goal is	 lost  in  alabyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.  Broad vision  isrequired,  a nice balancing of the rights of the  State	 andthe protection of society in general against protection fromharassment  to	the  individual	 and  the  risks  of  unjustconviction.   Every  reasonable	 presumption  must  be	madeinfavour of an accused person; he must be given the  benefitof  every  reasonable doubt.  The same broad  principles  ofjustice	 and  fair  play  must	be  brought  to	 bear	whendetermining  a	matter of prejudice as in  adjudging  guilt.But when all is said and done, what we are concerned to	 seeis  whether  the accused bad a fair trial, whether  he	knewwhat  be was being tried for, whether the main facts  soughtto  be established against him were explained to him  fairlyand clearly and whether he was given a full and fair  chanceto  defend himself.  If all these elements are there and  noprejudice  is shown the conviction must stand  whatever	 theirregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a	wantof one.In  adjudging  the question of prejudice the fact  that	 theabsence	 of a charge, or a substantial mistake in it,  is  aserious lacuna will naturally operate to the benefit of	 theaccused and if there is any reasonable and substantial doubtabout whether he was, or was reasonably likely to have been,misled in the circumstances of any particular case, be is asmuch  entitled to the benefit of it here as  elsewhere;	 butif, on a careful consideration of all the facts,  prejudice,or  a  reasonable and substantial likelihood of it,  is	 notdisclosed the conviction must stand; also it will always  bematerial to consider whether objec-1169tion  to the nature of the charge, or a total want  of	one,was   taken  at	 an  early  stage.   If	 it  was  not,	 andparticularly where the accused is defended by counsel  [AttaMohammad  v.  King-Emperor(1)], it may in a  given  case  beproper	to conclude that the accused was satisfied and	knewjust  what  he was being tried for and knew what  was  beingalleged	 against  him  and wanted  no  further	particulars,provided it is always borne in mind that "no serious  defectin the mode of conducting a criminal trial can be  justifiedor  cured  by the consent of the advocate  of  the  accused"[Abdul	-Rahman v. King-Emperor(2)].  But these are  mattersof fact which will be special to each different case and  noconclusion  on these questions of fact in any one  case	 canever be regarded as a precedent or a guide for a  conclusionof fact in another, because the facts can never be alike  inany two cases however alike they may seem.  There is no suchthing  as a judicial precedent on facts though counsel,	 andeven  judges, are sometimes prone to argue and to act as  ifthere were.Endeavour  was	made in the argument to draw  a	 distinctionbetween	 cases falling under section 34 of the Indian  PenalCode  and those under section 149 of the Indian Penal  Code.It  was	 contended  that  even	if  no	separate  charge  isnecessary  when section 34 is called in aid because  section34 does not create a separate offence, one is essential	 fora conviction under section 149 and that there, at any  rate,the absence of a separate charge is fatal.This  is  not a case under section 149 of the  Indian  PenalCode  so  the  question	 does not really  arise	 but  it  isnecessary to advert to the argument because, on the view  wetake of sections 225, 535 and 537, it is immaterial what theoffence	 is and whether there is a charge at all.  The	onlyquestion is whether the irregularity occasioned prejudice.We  now	 turn to an examination of the cases of	 this  Courtthat  are said to give rise to a conflict of view.   In	 ouropinion, there is in reality no conflict and(1)  [1929] L.R. 57 I.A. 71, 74.(2)  [1926] L.R. 54 I.A. 96,104, 110.1170though	the language used in one case might suggest that,  aclose consideration of its reasons will disclose that  therewas in fact no difference of view in the type of case  wherethere  is a charge to start with.  None of the	cases  dealswith the position where there is no charge at all.The  following	cases  afford  no  difficulty  because	theydirectly  accord  with the view we have set  out  at  lengthabove.	 In Lachman Singh v. The State(1) it was  held	thatwhen there is a charge under section 302 of the Indian PenalCode read with section 149 and the charge under section	 149disappears because of the acquittal of some of the  accused,a conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code readwith  section  34 is good even though there is	no  separatecharge under section 302 read with section 34, provided	 theaccused could have been so charged on the facts of the case.The  decision in Karnail Singh v. The State of Punjab(2)  isto the same effect and the question about prejudice was alsoconsidered.Pandurang,  Tukia and Bhillia v. State of Hyderabad(3)	alsopresents no difficulty because though the point was taken inthat case it was expressly left open at page 1093.From  there we come to Suraj Pal v. The, State of U.P.	(4).That  was a case in which a number of accused  were  chargedunder  sections 307/149 and sections 302/149 of	 the  IndianPenal Code.  It was found that there was no common object tokill,  so all the accused were acquitted under section	149.But the evidence disclosed that the appellant had himselfmade an attempt on the life of one man and had himself	shotanother	 dead.	 Accordingly the High  Court  convicted	 himunder  sections	 307  and  302	of  the	 Indian	 Penal	Coderespectively,  though  there was no  separate  charge  undereither	of those sections.Those convictions were  challengedhere.	This Court held that the omission to frame a  chargeis  a serious lacuna but despite that the real	question  iswhether that caused prejudice.	The learned Judges then(1)[1952] S.C.R. 839, 848.(2)[1954] S.C.R. 904,911(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1083.(4)[1955] I.S.C.R, 13321171proceeded  to  determine the question of  prejudice  on	 thefacts of that case.  The conclusion reached on the facts wasthat prejudice was disclosed, so an acquittal was ordered.It  was	 argued before us that the ground  of  the  decisionthere was that the absence of charges under sections 307 and302  simpliciter  was  in  itself  conclusive  to  establishprejudice and that therefore one need go no further.  It  isenough to say that that was not the decision and though thatwas  one  of  the  matters  taken  into	 consideration,	 theconclusion was based on a careful and lengthy  investigationof  all the facts in the case including the way in which  itwas  conducted,	 the  evidence	of  several  witnesses,	 themedical	 evidence, the first information report and  certaindocuments including two filed by the accused.Next comes Nanak Chand v. The, State of Punjab(1).  That wasalso a case in which the charge was under section 302/149 ofthe Indian Penal Code with the conviction under section	 302simpliciter without any separate charge under that  section.The Sessions Judge had convicted under section 302/34 of theIndian Penal Code holding that the charge of rioting was notproved.	  The High Court held that no common  intention	 wasproved	either	but  as	 the  evidence	indicated  that	 theappellant had done the actual killing he was convicted undersection 302.Now  it	 is true that there are	 observations  there  which,without	 close	examination,  would appear  to	support	 thelearned	 counsel for the appellant.  But those	observationsmust be construed in the light of the facts found, the	mostcrucial fact being that/ patent prejudice was disclosed.  Itwas found that the appellant there was in fact misled in hisdefence and one of the factors taken into consideration,  asindeed	must always be the case, was that when he  was	toldthat he was to be tried under section 302 read with  section149  of the Indian Penal Code that indicated to him that  hewas not being tried for a murder committed by him personallybut that he was only being(1)  [1955] I S.C.R. 1201.148			    1172made vicariously liable for an act that another had done  inprosecution of the common object of an unlawful assembly  ofwhich he was a member.	But that was only one of the mattersconsidered and it does not follow that every accused will beso misled.  It all depends on the circumstances.  The entireevidence  and facts on which the learned Judges founded	 arenot set out in the judgment but there is enough to  indicatethat  had  the appellant's attention been drawn to  his	 ownpart  in  the actual killing he would probably	have  cross-examined  the doctor with more care and there was enough  inthe  medical  evidence to show that had that been  done	 theappellant  might  well have been exonerated.  As  judges  offact  they  were  entitled, and indeed bound,  to  give	 theaccused	 the benefit of every reasonable doubt and  so	werejustified in reaching their conclusion on the facts of	thatcase.	Illustrations  (c)  and (e) to section	225  of	 theCriminal  Procedure Code show that what the accused  did  oromitted	 to  do in defence are relevant on the	question  ofprejudice.  If the Court finds that a vital witness was	 notcross-examined	when be might have been, and that if he	 hadbeen,  the  further  facts elicited  might  well  have	beencrucial, then material from which prejudice can be  inferredis  at once apparent: that is exactly Illustrations (c)	 and(e).  That, however, was, and remains, a pure conclusion  offact  resting  on  the evidence and  circumstances  of	thatparticular  case.  The decision was special to the facts  ofthat  case  and no decision on facts can ever be used  as  aguide for a conclusion on facts in another case.Now having reached the conclusion that there was  prejudice,the   learned	Judges	were  of  the	opinion	  that	 theirregularity,  if  it  can be so called	 when  prejudice  isdisclosed was incurable and from that they concluded that anincurable  irregularity	 is  nothing but  an  illegality:  aperfectly  possible  and logical conclusion when  the  words"irregularity" and "illegality" are not defined.  As we havealready	 said,	section 535 of the Criminal  Procedure	Codesays  that  no finding or sentence "shall be  deemed  to  beinvalid"  unless  etc. and it can well be argued  from	thisthat this indicates1173that  an omission to follow the provisions of the Code	doesin truth and in fact render the decision invalid but becauseof  section 535 that which is in truth and in  fact  invalidmust  be deemed to be valid unless prejudice  is  disclosed.As  there  was	prejudice in that  case,  the  decision	 wasinvalid	 and  being invalid it was illegal.  We do  not	 saythat that is necessarily so but it is a reasonably plausibleconclusion and was what the learned Judges had in mind.It  is	to  be. observed that section 535  of  the  Code  ismandatory  in its terms, just as mandatory as  section	233.If it be accepted that an absence of a charge would, but forits  provisions, render a conviction invalid,  this  sectioncures  such  an	 invalidity when there is in  fact,  not  intheory	but in fact, no failure of justice.  The section  isjust  as  mandatory  as	 section  233  and  we	can  see  nojustification  for giving it less weight than  section	237.If  section 237 validates a departure from section  233	 andsaves  it from the stigma of an irregularity, then  so	doessection	 535, for it says very expressly that no  convictionshall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no  chargewas  framed  unless  that in fact occasioned  a	 failure  ofjustice;  and if section 535 is held not to apply  to  casescovered by sections 237 and 238, then it must apply to casesthat  lie outside the scope of those' sections and the	onlykind  of  case	left is a case in which	 there	is  a  totalabsence	 of  a charge, for any other type of case  would  beexcluded   because  of	misjoinder.   If  section   233	  ismandatory, that part of it which prohibits misjoinder exceptin the cases mentioned in sections 234, 235) 236 and 239  isjust  as mandatory as the portion that requires	 a  separatecharge for each offence.  It is unfortunate that we have  nodefinition  of	the terms "illegality",	 "irregularity"	 and"in-.  validity"  because  they can  be	 used  in  differingsenses,	 but  however that may be, the decision we  are	 nowexamining and the remarks made in that case must be read  inthe  light  of this background.	 We agree that some  of	 theexpressions used in the judgment appear to travel wider thanthis but in order to dispel misconception we would now	holdthat the1174true view is the one we have propounded at lengthin the, present judgment.We  now turn to the question of fact: is there	material  inthis case to justify a finding of prejudice? that will	turnlargely on the differences between section 302 of the IndianPenal  Code  and  section 302 read with section	 34  of	 theIndian	Penal Code and on the measure of criminal  liabilityto which the appellant would be exposed in those two  cases;and here again, the matter must be viewed broadly and not inany technical or pettifogging way.Now  what  is an accused person entitled to  know  from	 thecharge	and  in what way does the charge in this  case	fallshort  of that?	 All he is entitled to get from	 the  chargeis-(1)  the offence with which he is charged, section221(1),Criminal Procedure Code,(2)  the law and, section of the law against whichthe offence is said to have been committed, section 221(4),(3)  particulars of the time, section 222(1) and(4)  of the place, section 222(1), and(5)  of the person against whom the offence is said to	havebeen  committed, section 222(1), and (6) when the nature  ofthe  case  is such that those particulars do  not  give	 himsufficient  notice of the matter with which he	is  charged,such particulars of the manner in which the alleged  offencewas  committed	as  will be  sufficient	 for  that  purpose,section 223.He is not entitled to any further information in the charge:see Illustration (e) to section 223 of the Code:"A is accused of the murder of B at a given time and  place.The charge need not state the manner in which A murdered B".It  is clear from this that when the case is one of  murder,the accused is not entitled to be told in the charge how  itwas committed, whether with a pistol or a lathi or a  sword.He  is not entitled to know from the charge simpliciter	 anyfurther	 circumstance.	 How then is he expected  to  defendhimself?   He  has the police challan, he has  the  evidencerecorded in the1175Committal  Court, he hears the prosecution witnesses and  heis  examined  under section 342 of the Code.   It  is  theseproceedings  that  furnish him with all the  necessary,	 andindeed	vital, information, and it is his duty to look	intothem and defend himself.  It will be seen that if the  logicof  the	 appellant's contention is carried  to	its  fullestextent	the accused could complain of prejudice	 because  bewas not told in the charge whether a pistol was used for thecrime  or a sword and if a pistol, its calibre and bore	 andthe type of cartridge.Now  when several persons join in the commission of a  crimeand  share  a common intention, it means that each  has	 therequisite  intention in himself; the fact that others  shareit  does not absolve any one of them individually, and	whenthe  crime is actually committed in pursuance of the  commonintention and the accused is present at its commission,	 thecrime  becomes	the offence actually  committed	 because  ofsection 114 of the Indian Penal Code.  Section 114 does	 notcreate	the  offence nor does section  34.   These  sectionsenunciate a principle of criminal liability.  Therefore,  insuch  cases all that the charge need set out is the  offenceof  murder punishable under section 302 of the Indian  PenalCode  committed by the accused with another and the  accusedis  left to gather the details of the occurrence as  allegedby the prosecution from other sources.	The fact that be  istold  that  he is charged with murder committed	 by  himselfwith another imports that every legal condition required  bylaw  to constitute the offence of murder committed  in	thisway was fulfilled: section 221(5) of the Criminal  ProcedureCode.Now what are those legal conditions?  What is the effect  ofcharging two persons with a murder committed in pursuance ofa   common  intention?	 It  means  that  the	accused	  isunmistakably told that be participated in the crime; exactlyhow is no more a matter for the charge than it is to set outthe  circumstances  in which the murder was  committed.	  Italso  means  that he is informed that it is  immaterial	 whostruck the fatal blow.	The charges here against the appel-1176lant  and his brother Ronnie are identical.  'As  there	 wasonly  one  fatal  blow and as only  one	 person	 could	haveinflicted  it  and as both are charged in this way,  it	 canonly mean that each is put on his guard and made to  realisethat  the  prosecution	allege	that  one  of  the  two	 wasresponsible  for that and which must be discovered from	 theevidence and not from the charge, just as surely as it	mustwhen  the question turns on who possessed or used  a  pistoland who a sword.It  is true that if it cannot be ascertained who struck	 thefatal blow, then the accused cannot be convicted unless	 thecommon	intention  is  proved and in that type	of  case  anacquittal of the co-accused may be fatal to the prosecution.But  the converse does not hold good, and if the  part	thatthe accused played can be clearly brought home to him and ifit  is	sufficient to convict him of murder  simpliciter  hecannot escape liability because of the charge unless he	 canshow prejudice.Put at its highest, all that the appellant can urge is	thata charge in the alternative ought to have been framed, whichin itself imports that it could have been so framed.  As wassaid  by  the Privy Counsel in Begu v.	King-Emperor(1)	 andalso by this Court in Lachman Singh v. The State(2)-"A  man may be convicted of an offence, although  there	 hasbeen no charge in respect of it, if the evidence is such  asto  establish a charge that might have been made.   That  iswhat  happened here............ They were not  charged	withthat formally, but they were tried on evidence which  bringsthe case under section 237"(1).The  variation between murder and concealing evidence  afterthe  crime is no more than the variation between  killing  aman jointly with another, sharing his intention, or allowingthe  other  to do the actual killing with  the	same  commonintention.Now  what do the proceedings in this case show?	 The  policecharge-sheet states that the appellant hit the deceased witha hockey stick while his brother(1) [1925] I.L.R. 6 Lah. 226, 231.(2) [1952] S.C.R. 839, 848.1177only  threw  stones.  From there we go	to  his	 examinationunder  section	342 of the Criminal Procedure  Code  in	 theCommittal Court.  He is specifically told that the only eye-witness	 in  the  case accuses him and not  his	 brother  ofhaving	hit the deceased over the head with a hockey  stick.No  one could misunderstand that.  In the Sessions Court  wefind  the same evidence repeated.  No witness suggests	thatanyone else hit the deceased on the head.  There was no pos-sibility of misunderstanding or mistake.  The fact that	 theappellant  did not attempt to confront any of the  witnesseswith   their   statements  before  either   the	  CommittingMagistrate  or	the  police on this  point  shows  that	 thewitnesses told a consistent story from the start.  Next, theappellant  was	examined under section 342 in  the  SessionsCourt and was asked the same questions and was confronted inhis  examination  with the same eye-witness.   He  was	toldclearly and unambiguously that the evidence was that he	 hitthe deceased over the head.Now what was his defence?  A curious procedure was  adopted,a procedure that has been condemned by the Nagpur High Courtin  other cases and which we regret to see  still  persists.Instead	 of  the  accused speaking for	himself	 he  made  astatement  through his advocate.  However, the	defence	 wasthis:(1)  an alibi: "I wasn't there".(2)  It	 was dark and the deceased rushed at  the  appellant(who is now said to have been there despite the alibi), felldown the stairs and broke his head;(3)  The deceased was the aggressor and the appellant struckhim in self defence.There  is no suggestion here that the other accused hit	 thedeceased  or that anyone other than the appellant did.	 Theappellant places it beyond doubt that he knew that the	caseagainst	 him  was that he is said to have struck  the  fatalblow.Next,  what  was  the cross-examination	 of  the  only	eye-witness?   There was no suggestion that she was mistaken  inher identity, whereas she was crossexamined about this	verymatter	of self defence and questions were put to show	thatthe deceased1178and  not his brother had threatened the appellant  with	 hisfist.In the High Court the plea of alibi was dropped and the onlyargument  advanced was self defence.  There was no  hint  ofprejudice  even	 in  the grounds of appeal.   There  was  nopretence in the arguments that the appellant did not know hewas  being  accused  of having hit  the	 deceased.   On	 thecontrary, there was a clear admission in the High Court thathe did hit the man but that he acted in self defence.As the appellant knew that the case against him was that  heis the one who is said to have struck the fatal blow, and ashe  was	 told in the charge that the offence he is  said  tohave  committed was that of murder and was informed  of	 thedate  and place and person, we find it impossible  to  inferprejudice.  As the Privy Council said in Atta Mohammadv. Emperor(1)-		      I"He  appeared  by  an advocate on the appeal  and  had	beenlegally	 defended  at  the  trial, and it  is  as  clear  aspossible  that, with full knowledge of the course which	 thetrial had taken, neither the appellant himself nor those whorepresented him bad any sense whatever of the injustice thatis now urged or any idea of his having been deprived of	 theopportunity  of knowing the charge on which he was tried  orof raising defences appropriate to that charge".We  would  hold	 that there was no prejudice  and  that	 theconviction  is	not  invalid because of the  nature  of	 thecharge.We now come to the merits, and the question is whether	thisis  a  case under section 302 or under the  second  part  ofsection	 304  of  the Indian Penal  Code.   The	 injury	 wasinflicted  with a hockey stick.	 The head was fractured	 butthe deceased lived for ten days.  The doctor says-"I  consider the head injury on the head of Smythe was of  avery  serious  nature  and was likely  to  result  in  fatalconsequences".Therefore, the doctor in whose care the patient was(1)  [1929] L.R. 57 I.A. 71, 74.1179till  he died places the injury no higher than	"likely"  tocause death.The  learned Sessions Judge exonerated the appellant of	 anyintention to kill and the learned High Court Judges say thatthey agree with his findings.  If there was no intention  tokill, then it can be murder only if(1)  the  accused  knew that the injury inflicted  would  belikely to cause death or(2)  that  it would be sufficient in the ordinary course  ofnature to cause death or(3)  that  the	accused	 knew  that  the  act  must  in	 allprobability cause death.If the case cannot be placed as high as that and the act  isonly  likely  to  cause	 death	and  there  is	no   specialknowledge,  the	 offence  comes under  the  second  part  ofsection 304 of the Indian Penal Code.The  doctor thought that it was only likely to cause  death.The appellant is only 22 years old and not a doctor and	 canhardly be presumed to have bad this special knowledge at thetime  he  struck  the blow.  All blows on the  head  do	 notnecessarily  cause death, and as the deceased lived for	 tendays, we are unable to deduce from the nature of the  injuryand  from the mere fact of death that the appellant had,  orshould	have had, the special knowledge that section 300  ofthe  Indian Penal Code requires.  Admittedly, there  was  nopremeditation and there was a sudden fight, so we are unableto ascribe the necessary knowledge to the appellant; nor wasthe  injury sufficient in the ordinary course of  nature  tocause death.  So the offence falls under the second part  ofsection 304 of the Indian Penal Code.On the question of sentence.  There was no enmity  accordingto the finding of the learned Sessions Judge.  The appellantdid  not go there armed with a stick.  He was in  love	withthe  deceased's	 sister who reciprocated his  affection	 butcould not marry him be-cause her husband had turned her	 outin  England ,and she had no divorce.  The deceased, who	 wasthe  girl's brother, resented this.  The appellant  went  tothe house and asked the sister to come down.  The1180brother came instead and there was a quarrel.  The appellantslapped the deceased across the face.  The deceased, who wasa big and strong man, shook his fist in the appellant's faceand  the appellant snatched a hockey stick from his  youngerbrother	 Ronnie and hit the deceased one blow over the	beadand  two blows on the hips.  In the circumstances, we  thinkfive years' rigorous imprisonment will suffice.We  would acquit the appellant on the-charge of	 murder	 andalter the conviction to one under the second part of section304 of the Indian Penal Code and reduce the sentence to	 oneof five years' rigorous imprisonment.CHANDRASEKHARA	AIYAR  J.-This appeal comes before us  on  areference owing to a conflict between two decisions of	thisCourt,	Nanak Chand v. The State of Punjab(1) and Suraj	 Palv. The State of U. P. (2).Where  there  is a charge against an accused  under  section302,  read  with section 149, if section 149 of	 the  IndianPenal Code is inapplicable to the facts, can the accused  beconvicted  under section 302 without a separate charge?	  Inthe  first  case, it was held that the omission	 to  have  aspecific charge under section 302 amounted to an illegality.In  the latter case, the view was taken that it was  a	mereirregularity,  curable	if no prejudice was  caused  to	 theaccused.Section 149 creates a specific offence and without  applyingits provisions a member of an unlawful assembly could not bemade  liable  for the offence committed not by	him  but  byanother member of that assembly.  Therefore the case is	 notsimilar	 to  the one where there is a charge  under  section302,  read with section 34 of the Indian Penal	Code.	Whensection 149 is ruled out, the liability for murder ceases tobe  constructive;  it  becomes direct and there	 must  be  aseparate  charge  therefor under section 302 of	 the  IndianPenal Code.  This was the line of reasoning in Nanak Chand'scase.	In Suraj Pal's case, the same line is taken but	 theabsence of a specific charge(1) [1955] 1 S.C R. 1201.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1332.1181is  treated as a serious lacuna merely; and not regarded  asan illegality.This conflict does not arise in the case before us where theoffence charged against two brothers, William and Ronnie forthe  murder  of	 Donald was under  section  302,  read	withsection 34 of the Indian Penal Code.  Ronnie was  acquitted.But William was found guilty and sentenced to transportationfor  life.   As pointed out by Lord Sumner  in	his  classicjudgment  in  Barendra Kumar Ghosh v.  The  King-Emperor(1),there  is much difference in the scope and applicability  ofsections  34 and 149, though they have some resemblance	 andare to some extent overlapping.	 The two sections are  againcompared and contrasted in Karnail Singh and another v.	 TheState  of Punjab(2).  Section 34 does not by  itself  createany offence, whereas it has been held that section 149 does.In a charge under section 34, there is active  participationin  the commission of the criminal act; under  section	149,the  liability	arises by reason of 'the membership  of	 theunlawful assembly with a common object, and there may be  noactive	 participation	at  all	 in  the   perpetration	  orcommission  of the crime.  The overlapping arises  in  thosecases  where  two  or  more  persons  commit  a	 murder	  infurtherance of the common intention, but it is not  possibleto  say which of them was responsible for the fatal  injury,or whether any one injury by itself was responsible for	 thedeath.	There may also be a case where it is known that	 outof the assailants one in particular was responsible for	 thefatal injury and the others are sought to be made liable forthe  result  owing to the common  intention  involved.	 Butwhereas	 in this case, the appellant has  been	individuallycharged with murder and there is proof that his band  causedthe injury, the fact that his brother was also sought to  bemade liable owing to the existence of a common intention, isneither	 here  nor  there, so far as  the  legality  of	 theconviction  is concerned, as there has been no prejudice  byway of failure of justice.It is, however, necessary having regard to the(1) [1924] L.R. 52 I.A. 40.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 904.1182lengthy	 arguments  addressed to us, to	 consider  the	mainquestion  arising  on the reference.  Though the  two  caseswhich  gave  rise to this reference were cases	relating  tosection	 149 of the Indian Penal Code and not to section  34of the Indian Penal Code, as the Present case is, the  orderof  reference  was  occasioned by the  fact  that  in  NanakChand's	 case it was stated specifically that  the  parallelcase  under section 34 also stood on the same  footing.	  Inour attempt to resolve the conflict, we covered a wide	areaof sections and decisions.  A detailed discussion of all thedecisions  cited at the Bar is not of much use as it is	 notpossible to gather from a study of those cases anything verydecisive  by  way of any guiding principle.  But  a  few  ofthem, more important than the rest, must be noticed.The   Criminal	Procedure  Code	 does  not  use	  the	word"illegality".	Even defects or violations that vitiate	 theproceedings  and  render  them void are spoken	of  only  asirregularities in section 530.	The word illegality was usedalmost	for  the  first time in the judgment  of  the  PrivyCouncil,  L.R.	28 Indian Appeals 257 (familiarly  known  asSubramania   Aiyar's   case),	where  they   speak   of   acontravention  of  section 234 of the Code, resulting  in  amisjoinder  of charges, as an illegality.  The idea that  itwas a mere irregularity was repelled in these words:-"Their Lordships are unable to regard the disobedience to anexpress	 provision  as	to  a  mode  of	 trial	as  a	mereirregularity.	 Such  a  phrase  as  irregularity  is	 notappropriate  to the illegality of trying an  accused  personfor  many  different offences at the same  time,  and  thoseoffences being spread over a longer period than by law couldhave   been   joined  together	in  one	  indictment.	 Theillustration  of the section itself sufficiently shows	whatwas meant".Again, they say:-"........  it would be an extraordinary extension of such  abranch	of administering the criminal law to say  that	whenthe  Code positively enacts that such a trial as that  whichhas  taken  place  here shall not  be  permitted  that	thiscontravention of the Code comes1183within	the  description  of  error,  omission,	 or  irregu-larity".Subsequently,  however, there have been systematic  attemptsto explain away the said decision and restrict its scope  tonarrow	limits.	 This was possibly because it  was  realisedeven by the Judicial Committee itself that the view taken bythem  to  the  effect  that a  violation  of  the  mandatoryprovisions of the Code would be an illegality was rather  anextreme	 one.  It may be pointed out that even in that	casethe question of prejudice was not entirely absent from theirLordships'  minds.  Both sides referred to it in the  courseof  the	 arguments, and the Lord Chancellor alludes  to	 theprejudice  inherent in the trial on a multitude of  charges.In  passing, it may be mentioned here that  the	 legislaturehas now specifically included misjoinder of charges in	sub-clause	(b)  of	 section  537.	The  exact  effect  of	thisinclusion may require consideration in an appropriate case.Before dealing with the other relevant sections of the Code,let us examine some of the later decisions   of	  the  PrivyCouncil which seem to indicate a swing of    the pendulum tothe other side.	 In Abdul Rahman v.	The King-Emperor(1),there  was  a  violation of section 360 of  the	 Code  whichprovides  that the deposition of each witness shall be	readover  to him in the presence of the accused or his  pleader.The  High Court held that this was a mere irregularity,	 andconfirmed  the	conviction  as no  failure  of	justice	 hadresulted.   It	was  contended on appeal  before  the  PrivyCouncil	 that  the  section was obligatory,  and  that	non-compliance  with such a mandatory provision was illegal,  onthe principle laid down in Subramania Aiyar's case(2).	 Buttheir  Lordships rejected this contention pointing out	thatin the earlier case the procedure adopted was one which	 theCode  positively  prohibited, and it was  possible  that  itmight have worked actual injustice to the accused; and	theyconfirmed the conviction.  The question was again raised  inBabulal Choukhani v. The King-Emperor(3)(1) [1926] L.R. 54 I.A. 96.  (2) [1901] L.R. 28 I.A. 257.		  (3) [1938] 65 I.A. 158.1184as  to what would be an illegality as distinguished from  anirregularity.  Lord Wright who delivered the judgment of theBoard assumed that an infringement of section 239(b) of	 theCode would be an illegality, and proceeded to state that thequestion   did	not,  however,	arise,	and  it	 was   henceunnecessary to discuss the precise scope of what was decidedin  Subramania Aiyar's case(1).	 The matter cropped up	onceagain  in  Pulukuri Kotayya and others	v.  KingEmperor	 (2)where there was a breach of the statutory requirement  foundin section 162 of the Code, inasmuch as the accused were notsupplied  with copies of the statements first recorded by  apolice	 officer   for	 cross-examining   the	 prosecutionwitnesses.   The  defect was recognized to be  a  matter  ofgravity,   and	if  the	 statements  bad   been	  completelydestroyed,  or if there had been a total refusal  to  supplycopies	to  the accused, the convictions were liable  to  bequashed.   But	in the case before them, as  the  statementswere  made available, though too late to be  effective,	 andthe Circle Inspector's notes of the examination of witnesseswere  put into the hands of the accused, it was taken to  bean  irregularity merely.  Referring to the  contention	thatthe  breach of a direct and important provision of the	Codecannot	be  cured  but	must lead to  the  quashing  of	 theconviction, Sir JohnBeaumont observed:-"............ In their Lordships' opinion, this argument  isbased on too narrow a view of the operation of section	537.When  a trial is conducted in a manner different  from	thatprescribed  by	the  Code (as in  N.  A.  Subramania  Iyer'scase(1)),  the	trial is bad, and no question of  curing  anirregularity   arises;	but  if	 the  trial   is   conductedsubstantially in the manner prescribed by the Code, but someirregularity  occurs  in  the course of	 such  conduct,	 theirregularity can be cured under section 537, and nonethelessso because the irregularity involves, as must nearly  alwaysbe the case, a breach of one or more of the very  comprehen-sive provisions of the Code.  The distinction drawn in	manyof the cases in India between an illegality and(1) [1901] L. R. 28 I.A. 257.(2) [1947] L.R. 74 I.A. 65.1185ail irregularity is one of degree rather than of kind.	Thisview finds support in the decision of their Lordships' Boardin  Abdul  Rahman v. The King-Emperor (1) where	 failure  tocomply	with section 360 of the Code of	 Criminal  Procedurewas  held to be cured by sections 535 and 537.	The  presentcase  falls under section 537, and their Lordships hold	 thetrial valid notwithstanding the breach of section 162".Of course, lack of competency of jurisdiction, absence of  acomplaint by the proper person or authority specified,	wantof  sanction  prescribed  as a	condition  precedent  for  aprosecution, in short, defects that strike at the very	rootof  jurisdiction  stand	 on  a	separate  footing,  and	 theproceedings  taken  in disregard or  disobedience  would  beillegal.   The	difficulty  arises  only  when	we  have  toconsider  the  other provisions in the Code  Which  regulateprocedure and which are found in a mendatory form,  positiveor  negative.	It  is	in this	 class	of  cases  that	 thedistinction  becomes important and material.  The  scope  ofthe  decision in Subramania Aiyar's case(2) has'  become  socircumscribed  that  it	 is dobutful if it  applies  to	 thegenerality  of	cases  of omissions and	 defects  that	comebefore	the  courts, excepting where they  bring  about	 theresult	that the trial was conducted in a  manner  differentfrom that prescribed by the Code.Let  us now turn our attention to the relevant	sections  ofthe  Code  bearing  on	the requirement	 of  a	charge,	 theomission  of  a charge and the effect thereof.	Section	 233provides as follows:-"For  every distinct offence of which any person is  accusedthere  shall  be a separate charge, and	 every	such  chargeshall be tried separately, except in the cases mentioned  insections 234, 235, 236 and 239".  A power to alter or add toa  charge,  at any time before judgment	 is  pronounced,  isconferred on a court under section 227.	 Sections 228 to 231provide	 for  the  steps  to be	 taken	consequent  on	suchalteration.   Section 225 shows what would be the effect  ofany errors in the framing of a charge.	It runs as follows:-(1) [1926] L.R. 51 I.A. 96.(2) [1901] L.R. 28 I.A. 257.1186"No  error in stating either the offence or the	 particularsrequired  to  be stated in the charge, and  no	omission  tostate the offence or those particulars, shall be regarded atany stage of the case as material, unless the accused was infact misled by such error or omission, and it has occasioneda failure of justice".Section 232(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure refers morespecifically to the effect of such error where an  appellateCourt  or  the	High Court in revision	or  in	confirmationproceedings,  notices such an error and is in the  followingterms:-"If  any Appellate Court, or the High Court in the  exerciseof  its	 powers of revision or of its powers  under  ChapterXXVII, is of opinion that any person convicted of an offencewas  misled in defence by the absence of a charge or  by  anerror  in the charge, it shall direct a new trial to be	 hadupon a charge framed in whatever manner it thinks fit".Then  we  have	section 237, dealing with a  case  where  anaccused	 charged  with one offence for which he	 might	havebeen  charged under the provisions of section 236  could  beconvicted  of  a different offence.  This  applies  only  tocases  where  it is doubtful which of several  offences	 thefacts  which can be proved will constitute.  Begu's  case(1)is  an example; the conviction was under section 201 of	 theIndian Penal Code for causing the disappearance of  evidencerelating  to a murder, though the charge was  under  section302 of the Indian Penal Code.  Viscount Haldane observes:-"............	A  man	may  be	 convicted  of	an  offence,although  there has been no charge in respect of it, if	 theevidence  is such as to establish a charge that	 might	havebeen  made.  That is what happened here.  The three men	 whowere  sentenced to rigorous imprisonment were  convicted  ofmaking	away with the evidence of the crime by assisting  intaking away the body.	 They  were  not charged  with	thatformally,  but they were tried on evidence which brings	 thecase under section 237".(1)  11925] L.R. 52 I.A. 191.1187Finally, we come to sections 535 and 537 of theCode.  The former is in these terms:-"  (1) No finding or sentence pronounced or passed shall  bedeemed	invalid	 merely	 on the ground that  no	 charge	 wasframed,	 unless,  in the opinion of the Court of  appeal  orrevision,  a failure of justice has in fact been  occasionedthereby.(2)  If	 the  Court  of appeal or  revision  thinks  that  afailure	 of  justice has been occasioned by an	omission  toframe a charge, it shall order that a charge be framed,	 andthat  the  trial be recommenced from the  point	 immediatelyafter the framing of the charge".The latter runs thus:-"Subject  to  the  provisions  hereinbefore  contained,	  nofinding,  sentence or order passed by a Court  of  competentJurisdiction  shall  be reversed or  altered  under  ChapterXXVII or on appeal or revision on account-(a)  of	  any  error,  omission	 or  irregularity   in	 thecomplaint,  summons, warrant, charge,  proclamation,  order,judgment  or other proceedings before or during trial or  inany inquiry or other proceedings under this Code, or(b)....................................(c)  of	 the  omission	to  revise any	list  of  jurors  orassessors in accordance with section 324, or(d)  of	 any  misdirection in any charge to a  jury,  unlesssuch  error, omission, irregularity or misdirection  has  infact occasioned a failure of justice".A case of complete absence of a charge is covered by section535, whereas an error or omission in a charge is dealt	withby  section  537.   The consequences  seem  to	be  slightlydifferent.  Where there is no charge, it is for the court todetermine  whether there is any failure of justice.  But  inthe  latter,  where there is mere error or omission  in	 thecharge,	 the court is also bound to have regard to the	factwhether	 the objection could and should have been raised  atan earlier stage in the proceedings.The sections referred to indicate that in the generality  ofcases the omission to frame a charge is1501188not  per se fatal.  We are unable, therefore, to  accept  assound the very broad proposition advanced for the appellantsby Mr. Umrigar that where there is no charge, the convictionwould  be illegal, prejudice or no prejudice.  On the  otherhand, it is suggested that the wording of section 535 of theCode  of  Criminal Procedure is sufficiently wide  to  coverevery case of 'no charge'.  It is said that it applies	alsoto the case of a trial in which there has been no charge  ofany kind even from the very outset.  We are unable to  agreethat section 535 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is to  beconstrued  in  such an unlimited sense.	 It may	 be  noticedthat this group of sections relating to absence of a charge,namely, sections 225, 226 and 232 and the powers exercisablethereunder' are with reference to a trial which has  alreadycommenced  or taken place.  They would, therefore,  normallyrelate	to errors or omissions which occur in a	 trial	thathas  validly  commenced.  There is no reason to	 think	thatsection 535 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is not also tobe understood with reference to the same context.  There maybe  cases where, a trial which proceeds without any kind  ofcharge	at  the	 outset can be said to	be  a  trial  whollycontrary  to what is prescribed by the Code.  In such  casesthe  trial  would  be illegal without  the  necessity  of  apositive  finding of prejudice.	 By way of illustration	 thefollowing classes of cases may be mentioned:-(a) Where thereis  no charge at all as required by the Code from  start  tofinish-from the Committing Magistrate's court to the end  ofthe Sessions trial; the Code contemplates in section 226 thepossibility of a committal without any charge and it is	 notimpossible to conceive of an extreme case where the Sessionstrial  also proceeds without any formal charge which has  tobe  in	writing and read out and explained  to	the  accused(section  210(2) and section 251 (A) (4) and  section  227).The  Code  requires  that there should be a  charge  and  itshould	be  in writing.	 A deliberate breach of	 this  basicrequirement cannot be cured by the assertion that everythingwas  orally  explained to the accused and the  assessors  orjurors, and there was1189no possible or probable prejudice. (b) Where the  convictionis for a totally different offence from the one charged	 andnot  covered  by  sections 236 and 237 of the  Code.   On  acharge for a minor offence, there can be no conviction for amajor  offence, e.g., grievous hurt or rioting	and  murder.The  omission  to frame a separate and- specific  charge  insuch cases will be an incurable irregularity amounting to anillegality.Sections  34, 114 and 149 of the Indian Penal  Code  providefor  criminal  liability viewed from  different	 -angles  asregards actual participants, accessories and men actuated bya  common object or a common intention; and the charge is  arolled-up  one,	 involving  the	 direct	 liability  and	 theconstructive  liability without specifying who are  directlyliable and who are sought to be made constructively  liable.In  such a situation, the absence of a charge under  one  orother  of the ,various heads of criminal liability  for	 theoffence	 cannot be said to be fatal by itself, and before  aconviction  for the substantive offence, without  a  charge,can  be set aside, prejudice will have to be made  out.	  Inmost  of the cases of this kind, evidence is normally  givenfrom the outset as to who was primarily responsible for	 theact which brought about the offence and such evidence is  ofcourse relevant. After all, in our considering whether the defect is illegalor  merely  irregular, we shall have to	 take  into  accountseveral	 factors, such as the form and the language  of	 themandatory  provisions,	the  scheme and	 the  object  to  beachieved,  the nature of the violation, etc.   Dealing	withthe  question whether a provision in a statute is  mandatoryor   directory,	  Lord	Penzance  observed  in	 Howard	  v.Bodington(1).	"There	may be many provisions	in  Acts  ofParliament which, although they are not strictly obeyed, yetdo not appear to the court to be of that material importanceto  the	 subject-matter	 to which they refer,  as  that	 thelegislature  could have intended that the non-observance  ofthem  should  be followed by a total failure  of  the  wholeproceedings.  On the other hand, there are(1)  [1877] 2 P D. 203.1190some provisions in respect of which the court would take  anopposite  view, and would feel that they are  matters  whichmust  be  strictly obeyed, otherwise the  whole	 proceedingsthat subsequently follow must come to an end".	These  wordscan  be applied mutatis mutandis to cases where there is  nocharge	at all.	 The gravity of the defect will have  to  beconsidered to determine if it falls within one class or	 theother.	Is it a mere unimportant mistake in procedure or  isit substantial and vital?  The answer will depend largely onthe facts and circumstances of each case.  If it is so gravethat  prejudice will necessarily be implied or imported,  itmay  be described as an illegality.  If the  seriousness  ofthe  omission  is  of  a  lesser  degree,  it  will  be	  anirregularity and prejudice by way of failure of justice willhave to be established.This  judgment should not be understood by  the	 subordinatecourts	as  sanctioning	 a deliberate  disobedience  to	 themandatory requirements of the Code, or as giving any licenseto  proceed with trials without an appropriate charge.	 Theomission  to frame a charge is a grave defect and should  bevigilantly  guarded  against.  In some cases, it may  be  soserious	 that by itself it would vitiate a trial and  renderit  illegal,  prejudice	 to  the  accused  being  taken	 forgranted.   In the main, the provisions of section 535  wouldapply to cases of inadvertence to frame a charge induced  bythe  belief  that  the matter on  record  is  sufficient  towarrant	 the  conviction for a	particular  offence  withoutexpress	 specification,	 and where the facts proved  by	 theprosecution  constitute a separate and distinct offence	 butclosely	 relevant  to and springing out of the same  set  offacts connected with the one charged.Coming now to the facts of the present case; William was  onterms of intimacy with Beryl P.W. 13.  She was the sister ofDonald Smythe.	The accused was practically living with	 herin  her house.	The brother did not like their intimacy	 andwas making attempts to separate Beryl from the accused.	  Onthe  evening  of the day of the occurrence, Donald  and	 hismother went to Beryl's house, There was a quarrel1191between them and the accused was asked to get away.  He leftthe  place  but	 returned a little later  with	his  brother(Ronnie) and asked Beryl who was on the first floor to	comedown to him.  She did not come but Donald came down into thecourtyard.   There  was	 a heated exchange  of	words.	 Theaccused	 slapped  Donald on the cheek.	 Donald	 lifted	 hisfist.	The accused gave one blow on his head with a  hockeystick with the result that his skull was fractured.   Donalddied  in the hospital ten days later.  A plea of  alibi	 wasgiven up in the High Court.  The suggestion that Donald felldown  and  sustained the head injury  while  descending	 thestairs	was ruled out by the evidence of the  eye-witnesses.Nothing was established to justify any exercise of the rightof private defence.On  these facts, which have been proved, the  only  questionthat  arises  is whether the appellant is guilty  of  murderunder  section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, or guilty	onlyof  culpable  homicide, not amounting to murder,  under	 thesecond part of section 304.  The High Court did not  addressitself to the nature of the offence.  It is obvious that theappellant did not intend to kill the deceased.	The evidenceof  the	 doctor is that the injury was likely to  result  infatal  consequences.  This by itself is not enough to  bringthe case within the scope of section 300.  There is  nothingto  warrant us to attribute to the appellant knowledge	thatthe  injury  was  liable to cause death or that	 it  was  soimminently  dangerous that it must in all probability  causedeath.	 The fact that Donald lived for ten days  afterwardsshows  that it was not sufficient in the ordinary course  ofnature	to cause death.	 The elements specified	 in  section300 of the Indian Penal Code are thus wanting.	We take	 theview, considering all the circumstances that the offence  isthe lesser one.The  appellant is acquitted of the charge of murder  but  isconvicted  under  the  second  part  of	 section  304,	 andsentenced to five years' rigorous imprisonment.IMAM  J.-I  agree  with the judgment just  delivered  by  mylearned brother, Chandrasekhara Aiyar, J. but1192would add some observations of my own as I was party to	 thejudgment of this Court in Nanak Chand's case.The  appellant was charged with murder and nothing short  ofit,  although it was stated in the charge that	the  offencewas  committed by him in furtherance of a common  intention.If  the evidence failed to prove that the offence  committedby him was in furtherance of a common intention, it would benonetheless  his offence, namely, murder, if his act in	 lawamounted to murder.  The law does not require in such a casethat a separate charge for murder should be framed,  becausethe charge of murder was already on the record.Strictly  speaking,  on the facts of the present  case,	 thequestion  raised by the reference does not arise.  Since  ithas  been raised, it must be considered.  In  Nanak  Chand'8case  the  view taken was that when an	accused	 is  chargedunder section 302 read with section 149 of the Indian  PenalCode, it is illegal to convict him under section 302 of	 theIndian	Penal  Code  without a	charge	having	been  framedagainst	 him under that section.  It was also held  that  ifthis was only an irregularity then on the facts of the case,the accused was misled in his defence.	In Suraj Pal's case,in similar circumstances, it was held that failure to  framea  charge  under section 302 was a serious  lacuna  and	 theconviction was set aside on the ground that the accused	 hadbeen  prejudiced.  A careful examination of these two  casesdoes not reveal any substantial conflict between them.As  I  understand  the provisions of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure, a separate procedure is set out for various classof  cases  triable by a court exercising  powers  under	 theCode.	So far as the framing of a charge is concerned,	 theCode  expressly states the kind of cases in which no  chargeis to be framed.  In trial of warrant cases, cases before  aCourt of Sessions and a High Court, a charge must be framed.Failure	 to  frame  a  charge  in  such	 cases	would  be  acontravention  of  the	mandatory provisions  of  the  Code.Would such contravention amount to an illegality?  Prima1193facie a conviction of an accused person for an offence	withwhich he had not been charged but for which he ought to havebeen charged, is invalid.  It is said that by virtue of	 theprovisions  of sections 535 and 537 of the Code	 failure  toframe  a charge or an omission or irregularity in a  charge,which	is  framed,  does  not	by  itself  invalidate	 theconviction,  unless  the Court is satisfied that in  fact  afailure of justice has resulted. It is, therefore, necessaryto examine how far these provisions of the Code override itsprovisions relating to the framing of charges.Section	 233  of the Code expressly states  that  for  everydistinct offence of which any person is accused there  shallbe  a separate charge and every such charge shall  be  triedseparately,  except in the cases mentioned in sections	234,235, 236 and 239.  There is no ambiguity in the language  ofthis  section.	While it insists upon a separate charge	 forevery distinct offence it permits a single trial on  severalcharges in the cases mentioned in sections 234, 235, 236 and239.  Section 233 is a mandatory provision and the force  ofits  direction	is  not weakened by the	 fact  that  anotherprovision of the Code does permit a conviction of an accusedfor an offence with which he had not been charged.  In	sucha case no question of illegality or irregularity arises,  asthe  conviction	 is expressly authorized by the	 Code.	 Theconviction  is valid because of the statute itself  and	 notbecause of section 535.The framing of a charge in trial of crises in which a chargeis  required to be framed, is one of the important  elementsin the mode of a trial.	 On the charge framed, after it	 hasbeen  explained	 to the accused, the plea of guilty  or	 notguilty	is recorded.  If the accused pleads guilty,  certainconsequences  follow.	If he pleads not guilty,  the  trialmust proceed according to law.	When a charge is not framed,obviously  no  plea of the accused with reference to  it  istaken  and the trial has proceeded without such a plea.	  Isthe framing of a charge and the recording of the plea of theaccused	 merely a ritual or a fundamental provision  of	 theCode concerning procedure1194in  a  criminal trial?	I think it is the latter.   Are	 theexpress	 provisions of the Code as to the manner in which  atrial  is  to  proceed	to  be	ignored,  or  considered  assatisfied, merely because the Court explained to the accusedas to what he was being tried for?  I a prehend not.  For todo  so	is  to	replace the provisions	of  the	 Code  by  aprocedure unwarranted by the statute itself.  In my opinion,a  total absence of a charge from start to finish in a	casewhere  the  law	 requires  a  charge  to  be  framed,  is  acontravention  of the provisions of the Code as to the	modeof  trial and a conviction of the accused of an	 offence  insuch  a case is invalid and the question of  prejudice	doesDot  arise.   None  of the decisions of	 the  Privy  Councilsuggest that in such a case the conviction will be deemed tobe valid by virtue of the provisions of section 535,  unlessthe  Court  is satisfied that there has been  a	 failure  ofjustice.In  cases  where a charge has been framed and  there  is  anomission  or irregularity in it, it is difficult to see	 howthe  mode  of  trial is affected.  In any  event,  the	Codeexpressly  provides that in such cases the  conviction	neednot be set aside, unless, in fact, a failure of justice	 hasresulted.Under the provisions of section 232 of the Code an appellateCourt  or a High Court exercising its powers of revision  orits powers under Chapter XXVII, must direct a new trial of acase  in  which an accused person has been convicted  of  anoffence	 with  which  he  had not been	charged,  if  it  issatisfied  that	 he had been misled in his  defence  by	 theabsence of a charge.  In such a case a court is bound to actaccording to its provisions.  But this does not mean that byvirtue	of these provisions that which was invalid shall  bedeemed to be valid, unless, prejudice was shown.  It is	 theprovision of section 535 to which reference must be made  inorder  to ascertain whether that which was invalid shall  bedeemed	to  be valid, unless the court	was  satisfied	thatthere had been a failure of justice.  I regard with concern,if  not	 with  dismay,	a too  liberal	application  of	 itsprovisions  to all cases in which there is an absence  of  acharge,1195although  a  charge  ought  to	have  been  framed.   It  isdifficult to lay down any hard and fast rule as to when	 theprovisions  of section 535 will or will not  be	 applicable.The  facts  of	each case, as they arise, will	have  to  becarefully considered in order to decide that that which	 wasprima  facie invalid is deemed to be valid by virtue of	 itsprovisions.  There may be cases where the omission to  framea charge was merely a technical defect in which case section535  would  apply.  On the other band, there  may  be  caseswhere failure to frame a charge affects the mode of trial orit is such a substantial contravention of the provisions  ofthe  Code relating to the framing of charges that  prejudicemay  be inferred at once and the conviction which was  primafacie  invalid	continued  to be so.  In  a  criminal  trialinnocence  of  an  accused is  presumed,unless	there  is  astatutory presumption against him, and the prosecution	mustprove that the accused is guilty of the offence for which heis being tried.	 The prosecution is in possession of all theevidence upon which it relies to establish its case  againstthe accused.  It has the privilege to ask the Court to framecharges	 with  respect to the offences which  it  wishes  toestablish  against the accused.	 On the Court itself a	dutyis  cast  to  frame  charges  for  offences  which,  on	 theevidence,  appear to it prima facie to have been  committed.If in spite of this a charge under section 302 read with 149of  the Indian Penal Code only is framed against an  accusedperson	and not under section 302 of the Indian Penal  Code,it  will be reasonable to suppose that neither the  prosecu-tion  nor  the Court considered the evidence  sufficient  toprove  that  murder  was committed by the  accused  and	 theomission  to  frame  a	charge under  section  302  must  beregarded  as a deliberate act of the Court by way of  noticeto the accused that he was not being tried for that offence.It  would not be a case of mere omission to frame a  charge.If, therefore, the accused is convicted under section 302, Iwould  consider his conviction as invalid, as he was  misledin his defence.In  conclusion I would point out that the provisions of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure are meant to be151			    1196obeyed.	 Contravention of its provisions are unnecessary andneither	 the  prosecution  nor the Courts  of  trial  shouldignore	its  provisions	 in the hope that  they	 might	findshelter	 under sections 535 and 537 of the Code.  Where	 thecontravention	is   substantial  and  a   retrial   becomesnecessary,  public time is wasted and the accused is put  tounnecessary harassment and expense.I  agree  that the appellant's conviction  be  altered	fromsection	 302 of the Indian Penal Code to 304 of	 the  IndianPenal Code and that he be sentenced to five years'  rigorousimprisonment.