PETITIONER:THE COTTON AGENTS LTD., BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,BOMBAY.DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/05/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1279ACT:Income-tax-Managing Agency Agreement-Proper construction of-Commission  on	sale proceeds of  the  managed	company-Timeof accruing.HEADNOTE:Messrs.	  Shivnarayan  Surajmal	 Nomani	 were  the  managingagents	of  the New Swadeshi Mills of  Ahmedabad  Ltd.	 TheNemani group and the appellant-company which is the assesses811held  a	 substantial  number of shares of  the	said  mills.Sometime  in 1944 some difference arose between them and  itwas  decided that the Nemani group should sell its block  ofshares to the appellant company at an agreed price and	thenthe  appellant company would become the managing  agents  ofthe  mills company on payment of Rs. 5,00,000 to the  Nemanigroup  and  would  be  entitled to  the	 emoluments  of	 themanaging agents as from April 1, 1944.	The relevant portionof the Managing AgencyAgreement ran thus:-"  (2) The remuneration of the agents as such agents of	 thecompany as aforesaid shall be as follows:-A  commission at the rate of three and a half per  cent.  onthe  gross proceeds of all sales of the yarn,  cloth,  wasteand other articles manufactured by the company earned in anyyear  or other period for which the accounts of the  companyare made up and laid before the General Meeting.""  (3) The said commission shall become due to the  ManagingAgents at the end of each financial year or other period forwhich the accounts of the company are to be laid before	 theGeneral	 Meeting and shall be payable and  paid	 immediatelyafter  such  accounts  have  been  passed  by  the   GeneralMeeting.,,The  assessment year was 1946-47, and the year	ending	withDiwali, 1945 (October 18, 1944, to November 4, 1945) was theaccounting year.  The managing agency commission from  April1, 1944, to December 31, 1944, amounted to Rs. 2,20,433	 andfrom January 1, 1945, to March 31, 1945, to Rs. 67,959.	 Thecase  of the appellant-company was that for  the  assessmentyear 1946-47 it was liable to pay tax only on the commissionof  Rs.	 67,959 which it had earned by working	as  managingagent of the Mills company and it was not liable to pay	 taxon  the	 sum of Rs. 2,20,433.  On a  difference	 of  opinionhaving	arisen between the departmental	 taxing	 authoritiesand the Tribunal the following question was referred to	 theHigh Court for decision :-"  Whether  on the facts and circumstances of the  case	 themanaging agency commission of 3-1/2 on sales made by the NewSwadeshi Mills of Ahmedabad Ltd., between April 1, 1944, andDecember 31, 1944, accrued to Shivnarayan Surajmal Nemani orto the assessee ? "The  High Court following the decision of the Supreme  Courtin  E.	D.  Sassoon and Company	 Ltd.	V.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax, Bombay City, held that the appellant company wasliable	to  pay tax on the whole of the	 commission  as	 thecommission  accrued due on March 31, 1945, and	they  becameentitled to receive it at the end of the year; it also	heldthat  no debt was created in favour of the agents  when	 thegoods  were  sold.  On appeal by the assessee company  on  acertificate of the High Court:Held,  that  the view of the High Court	 was  correct.	 Thecommission of the managing agents accrued  and became due atthe end of the financial year and that neither any debt	 norany  right to receive payment arose in favour of the  agentswhen each812transaction of sale took place.	 No income arose or  accruedon the sale proceeds at the time of each sale.E.   D. Sassoon and Company Ltd. v. Commissioner of  Income-tax, Bombay, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 313, referred to.Lakshminarayan	Ram  Gopal  and Sons v.	 The  Government  ofHyderabad, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 393, followed.Commissioners  of  Inland  Revenue  v.	Gardner	 Mountain  &D'Ambrumenil  Ltd., (1947) 29 T.C. 69 and Turner Morrison  &Co.  Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, West Bengal, [1953]23 I.T.R. 152, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 100 of 1.959.Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 11,  1957,of  the Bombay High Court in Income-tax Reference No. 53  of1956.R.   J.	 Kolah, Dwarkadas, S. N. Andley; J. B.	 Dadachanji,Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellants.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  May 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.K.  DAS, J.-This is an appeal on a certificate granted  bythe  High  Court of Bombay, under s. 66A (2) of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922.	  The short facts  are	these.	 TheCotton	Agents	Limited,  Bombay, are  a  limited  liabilitycompany	 registered under the Indian Companies Act and	willbe called the assessee Company in this judgment.  It held  asubstantial  number of shares of the New Swadeshi  Mills  ofAhmedabad,  Ltd.  (hereinafter called  the  Mills  Company).Messrs.	  Shivnarayan  Surajmal Nemani	(called	 the  Nemanigroup)	also  held a block of shares of	 the  Mills  Companyalong  with  its managing agency.  The assessment  year	 was1946-47, and the year ending with Diwali, 1945 (October	 18,1944,  to  November  4,	 1945)	was  the  accounting   year.Sometime in 1944 some differences arose between the assesseeCompany	 and  the  Nemani  group;  these  differences	werereferred  to  one Govindram Seksaria, who decided  that	 theNemani group should sell its block of shares to the assesseeCompany at an agreed price, It was further decided813that  a sum of Rs. 5,00,000 be paid by the assessee  Companyto  the	 Nemani group as the price of the,  managing  agencyrights.	 This arrangement was approved by the  share-holdersof the Mills Company by a resolution dated January 4,  1945,and came into effect immediately.  The agreement further wasthat  the assessee Company would come in as managing  agentsof the Mills Company in place of the Nemani group and  wouldbe entitled to the emoluments of the managing agents as fromApril 1, 1944.	The managing agency commission from April 1,1944,  to  December 31, 1944, amounted to Rs.  2,20,433	 andfrom January 1, 1945, to March 31, 1945, to Rs. 67,959.	 Thecase  of  the assessee Company was that for  the  assessmentyear 1946-47 it was liable to pay tax only on the commissionof  Rs.	 67,959 which it had earned by working	as  managingagent of the Mills Company and it was not liable to pay	 taxon the sum of Rs. 2,20,433.  This contention of the assesseeCompany	  was  not  accepted  by  the  departmental   taxingauthorities;  but the Tribunal decided in its  favour.	 Theassessee Company's case before the Tribunal was that as	 themanaging agency commission was based on the sales, the	com-mission accrued to the managing agents as and when the saleswere  made and furthermore the sum of Rs. 5,00,000  paid  bythe  assessee  Company	to  the	 retiring  managing   agentsincluded   the	purchase  price	 of  the   managing   agencycommission  which had accrued in the hands of  the  retiringagents.	  The  Tribunal expressed the view that	 on  a	trueconstruction of the relevant managing agency agreement,	 the31 per cent. commission on sales made when the Nemani  groupwas the managing agent accrued to that group and not to	 theassessee  Company and thus a debt was created in  favour  ofthe Nemani group on every sale during its period of managingagency	and only the payment of the debt was  deferred	tillthe  accounts of the Mills Company were passed at a  generalmeeting; therefore, the commission prior to the close of theyear  1944 was assessable in the hands of the  Nemani  groupand  thereafter in the hands of the assessee  Company.	 TheDepartment, however, contended that the whole106814of  the managing agency commission accrued to the  assessee.Thereupon,  at the instance of the Department, the  Tribunalreferred the following question of law to the High Court fordecision :-"  Whether  on the facts and circumstances of the  case	 themanaging agency commission at 3-1/2 on sales made by the NewSwadeshi Mills of Ahmedabad Ltd., between April 1, 1944, andDecember  31, 1944, accrued to Shivnarayan Surajmal  Nemani,or to the assessee ?"The  High  Court held that the matter was concluded  by	 thedecision  of this Court in E. D.Sassoon and Company Ltd.  v.Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay City (1).  With referenceto the argument of learned counsel for the assessee  Companythat the commission was payable on the sale proceeds and noton the profits as in Sassoon's case (1), it said:" We would have given serious thought to this aspect of	 thematter	but  for the view we take that the decision  of	 theSupreme Court with regard to the question of creation of thedebt  and with regard to the serving by the managing  agentsfor a term of one year being a condition precedent for theirbeing  entitled to receive payment, is indistinguishable  onthe  facts of this case.  We may point out that here  as  inthe Sassoon's case (1) the commission of 31 per cent. is  tobe earned in any year, and also by clause 3 of the agreementthe  commission is to become due to the managing  agents  atthe end of each financial year.	 Therefore, till the end  ofthe  financial year there is no debt whatsoever	 created  infavour	of  the	 managing agents and  also  their  right  toreceive payment depends upon their having served for a wholeyear.	Under the circumstances we must hold, following	 thedecision of the Supreme Court, that the assessees are liableto pay tax on the whole of the commission as the  commissionaccrued	 due on March 31, 1945, and they became entitled  toreceive it at the end of the year.  We do not agree with theview of the Tribunal that according to the agreement of	 themanaging agents the debt was(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 313.815created in favour of the agents when the goods were sold  bythe  company  and that the payment was deferred	 to  a	dateafter the accounts having been passed by the shareholders inthe general meeting of the company.  In no view of the	casecan  it be said that the debt was created in favour  of	 theagents when the goods were sold ".The answer to the question really depends on a	constructionof the relevant terms of the managing agency agreement datedMarch  15, 1925, entered into between the Mills Company	 andthe  Nemani group.  Before we proceed to a consideration  ofthose terms it is necessary to state that the Department hasassessed  the  Nemani group also to tax in  respect  of	 thecommission  for	 the period April 1, 1944, to  December	 31,1944.	That  circumstance has, however, no bearing  on	 thequestion  of  construction  and	 learned  counsel  for	 theDepartment  has stated before us that there is no  intentionto  tax two parties for the same income and if the  tax	 hasbeen realised from both for the same income, it will have tobe refunded to one of the two parties after the decision  ofthis  Court.   We  are	not considering	 in  this  case	 thevalidity  or  otherwise of what are known as  protective  orprecautionary assessments, and nothing said in this judgmenthas any bearing on that question.We  go at once to the Managing Agency Agreement dated  March15,  1925.   Under that agreement the managing	agents	wereappointed for a period of fifty. one years, but with libertyto them to resign the appointment and retire from the agencyat  any time by twelve calendar months' notice	in  writing,such  notice to expire at the end of any financial  year  ofthe  Mills  Company.   Then came cls. (2)  and	(3)  of	 theagreement,  which are material and must be quoted so far  asthey are necessary for our purpose:-", (2) The remuneration of the Agents as such Agents of	 theCompany as aforesaid shall be as follows:-A  commission at the rate of three and a half per  cent.  onthe  gross proceeds of all sales of the yarn,  cloth,  wasteand other articles manufactured816by the Company earned in any year or other period for  whichthe accounts of the Company are made up and laid before	 theGeneral Meeting."Provided, etc., (it is unnecessary to quote the proviso)."  (3) The said commission shall become due to the  ManagingAgents at the end of each financial year or other period forwhich the accounts of the Company are to be laid before	 theGeneral	 Meeting and shall be payable and  paid	 immediatelyafter  such  accounts  have  been  passed  by  the   GeneralMeeting".Clauses	 (6)  to (11) recited the rights and duties  of	 themanaging  agents,  one	of  such  rights  being	 to  retain,reimburse  and pay themselves " all sums due to	 the  agentsfor commission ". Clauses (13) and (14) dealt with the rightto assign the remuneration and the managing agency, and saidinter  alia  that  " it shall be lawful for  the  agents  toassign	this  agreement and the benefit	 thereof  and  theirrights	and  privileges,  etc., to any	person	or  firm  orcompany having authority by its constitution to become boundby	the	 obligations	 undertaken	 by	 theagents...........................  and the Company shall  bebound to recognise the person, firm or company aforesaid  asthe  agents of the Company".  It is unnecessary to read	 theother clauses of the managing agency agreement,The  controversy  before us hinges really on the  scope	 andeffect	of clauses (2) and (3), read in the context  of	 theagreement as a whole.  On behalf of the assessee Company theargument   is  that  under  el.	 (2)  the  managing   agencyremuneration  accrued  at the rate of 31 per  cent.  on	 thegross proceeds of all sales; the word " all " is emphasised,and it is argued that the remuneration accrued as each	saletook  place,  the totality of sales giving  the	 gross	saleproceeds.   It is argued that embedded in each sale was	 themanaging  agency commission of the assessee Company.  It  isfurther	 suggested  on behalf of the assessee  Company	thatthough	cl. (3) uses the word " due ", it  merely  indicatedthe time of payment and not that of accrual.817We  do	not think that this reading of the  two	 clauses  iscorrect.   In our view, cl. (3) is the accrual	clause;(  itshows  that  the commission became due at the  end  of	eachfinancial year or other period for which the accounts of theMills  Company were to be laid before the  General  Meeting.Significantly enough, the clause consists of two parts;	 onepart says when the commission becomes due and the other sayswhen it is to be payable and paid.  In very clear terms, theclause says that the commission becomes due normally at	 theend of the financial year, but is payable after the accountshave  been passed by the General Meeting.  Let	us  contrastel.   (3)  with	 cl.  (2).   Clause  (2)  states   how	 theremuneration  has to be calculated.  It says in effect	thatthe  remuneration has to be calculated at the rate of  3-1/2per  cent. on the gross proceeds of all sales, etc.,  earnedin  any year or other period for which the accounts  of	 theMills Company are made up.  Putting the two clauses side  byside,  the  conclusion at which we have arrived is  that  intheir  true scope and effect cl. (3) determines the time  ofaccrual	 of  the managing agency remuneration  and  cl.	 (2)determines  the	 rate  at which the remuneration  is  to  becalculated;  and  as  to  the  time  of	 payment,  that	  isdetermined by the second part of cl. (3).This  view  of the managing agency agreement  of  March	 15,1925, concludes the appeal.  If the remuneration accrued  atthe  end of the financial year, then undoubtedly it  accruedin  the	 hands of the assessee Company.	 It remains  now  torefer briefly to some of the decisions cited at the Bar.As  to the decision in Sassoon's case(1) it is	pointed	 outthat the commission there payable by way of remuneration wasa  percentage on the net profits and this, it is argued	 forthe  assessee Company, distinguishes that decision from	 thepresent case.  Indeed, it is true that in Sassoon's case (1)the  remuneration  was	fixed at a  percentage	on  the	 netprofits,  but the real point of the decision was as to	whenthe  remuneration  accrued.  On this point the	majority  oflearned Judges said:(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 313.818"  It  is  clear  therefore that income	 may  accrue  to  anassessee  without  the actual receipt of the same.   If	 theassessee acquires a right to receive the income, the  incomecan be said to have accrued to him though it may be receivedlater  on  its being ascertained.  The basic  conception  isthat  he must have acquired a right to receive	the  income.There must be a debt owed to him by somebody.  There must beas is otherwise expressed debitum in presenti, solvendum  infuturo: see W. S. Try Ltd. v. Johnson(1) and Webb v. Stenton(2).  Unless  and until there is created in  favour  of	 theassessee  a debt due by somebody it cannot be said  that  hehad  acquired a right to receive the income or	that  incomehas accrued to him".It  has	 been argued before us that  the  decision  requiresreconsideration	  because  it  failed  to  make	 a   furtherdistinction, a distinction which it is stated arises in law,between	 the right to receive payment and the creation of  adebt.	We  consider  it  unnecessary  to  consider  such  adistinction,  if any such exists, in the present  case.	  Onour view of the managing agency agreement, the commission ofthe  managing agents became due at the end of the  financialyear and that is when it accrued; and there were neither anydebt  created  nor any right to receive	 payment  when	eachtransaction  of sale took place.  We were also addressed  atsome length on the further question whether managing  agencyis  service and if so, whether it must be for one full	yearor whether apportionment is permissible.  These questions donot fall for decision in the present case and we express  noopinion	 thereon.   We have proceeded in this  case  on	 thefooting	 that  the  managing agency  work  of  the  assesseeCompany constituted business within the rule of the decisionin Lakshminarayan Ram Gopal and Sons Ltd. v. The  Governmentof  Hyderabad  (3) and on that footing we have	decided	 thequestion of accrual.  In Commissioners of Inland Revenue  v.Gardner	 Mountain & D'Ambrumenil Ltd. (4), on which  learnedcounsel	 for the appellant placed reliance, the	 facts	werequite(1)  [1946] 1 All E.R. 532, 539.(2)  [1883] 11 Q.B D. 518, 522,527.(3)  [1955] (1) S.C.R. 393.(4)  [1947] 29 T.C. 69.819different  and	on  a true construction	 of  the  agreementsthere, it was held that the commission payable under certainunder-writers'	agreements  arose in the year in  which	 thepolicies  were underwritten.  That decision proceeded  on  aconstruction  of the agreements there considered; and it  isno authority for construing other agreements of a  differentcharacter.   Learned  counsel for the  appellant  relied  onTurner	Morrison & Co.	Ltd. v. Commissioner of	 Income-tax,West Bengal(1) for his contention that in the sale  proceedsof  each  transaction  of sale	were  embedded	the  income,profits	 or gains to be earned by the managing	agents	and,therefore,  the accrual took place on each  transaction,  ofsale.	The observations at page 160 of the report on  whichreliance  was  placed  were made  in  a	 different  context,namely, in the context of the place of receipt of income  inrelation  to the provisions of s. 4(1)(a) of the  Income-taxAct.Learned	 counsel  for the respondent has pointed out  to  usthat  the observations of Lord Justice Fry in  Colquhoun  v.Brooks	(2)  were not very accurately reproduced  in  RogersPyatt  Shellac and Co. v. Secretary of State for India	(3).He  submitted  that Lord Justice Fry did not  say  that	 thewords  "  accrual  " or "  arising  "  represented  a  stageanterior  to  the  point of time  when	the  income  becomesreceivable  and connote a character of the income  which  ismore or less inchoate.	He has argued that there is  nothinginchoate  about	 the income when it arises or  accrues.	  Weconsider it unnecessary to embark on a discussion as to	 howfar the aforesaid observations require consideration by us.It is enough to say that on the view which we have taken  ofthe  relevant clauses of the managing agency  agreement,  noincome arose or accrued on the sale proceeds at the time  ofeach  transaction of sale; the income accrued at the end  ofthe financial year at the rate of 31 per cent. on the  grossproceeds of all sales of yarn, cloth, waste, etc., earned inany  one year.	In that view of the matter, the	 High  Courtcorrectly answered the question.The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.				 Appeal dismissed.(1) [1953] 23 I.T.R. 152.      (2) (1888) 21 Q.B.D. 52, 59.(3) (1924) 1 I.T.C. 363, 372.820