PETITIONER:KANAIYALAL CHANDULAL MONIM	Vs.RESPONDENT:INDUMATI T. POTDAR AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/02/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERSUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  444		  1958 SCR 1394ACT:Municipal  Law-Water Supply-Landlord  withholding  essentialsupply-Tenant not in enjoyment after enactment-Conviction oflandlord-Legality-Bombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House RatesControl Act (Bom.  LVII of 1947), S. 24.HEADNOTE:Section	 24(1) of the Bombay Rents Hotel and  Lodging  HouseRates  Control	Act, 1947, provides: "	No  landlord  eitherhimself or through any person acting or purporting to act onhis behalf shall without just or sufficient cause cut off orwithhold  any  essential supply or service  enjoyed  by	 thetenant	 in  respect  of  the  premises	 let  to  him."	  ByExplanation  11	 :  "  For the	purposes  of  this  section,withholding  any essential supply or service  shall  includeacts or omissions attributable to the landlord on account ofwhich  the  essential supply or service is cut	off  by	 thelocal authority or any other competent authority."The appellant was prosecuted under S. 24 of the Bombay RentsHotel  and  Lodging  House Rates Control  Act,	1947,  on  acomplaint  by the tenant, the first respondent, on June	 14,1954,  for  having  refused  or	 neglected  to	have   waterconnection  made for the premises.  The water supply to	 thepremises was cut off by the Municipality in 1947 due to	 thedefault	  in   payment	of  the	 municipal  taxes   by	 thepredecessor-in-title  of  the appellant,  but  the  tenants,including  the first respondent, continued in occupation  ofthe  premises  without	having the use	of  municipal  watersupply.	  It  was  contended  for  the	appellant  that	 hisconviction was invalid because (1) he was not liable for thedefault	 made  by his predecessor-in-title, and (2)  in	 anycase,  s.  24 was not applicable inasmuch as the  supply  ofmunicipal water was not enjoyed by the first respondent whenthe Act came into force:1395Held:	  (1) that though the appellant might not have	beendirectly  responsible for the cutting off of the  supply  ofmunicipal  water, it was within his power to get the  supplyrestored  by the Municipality on payment of  the  prescribedfee  and in so far as he omitted to do so, such an  omissionwas  attributable to him within Explanation 11 of s.  24  ofthe  Act,  and	therefore he was  withholding  an  essentialsupply within the meaning of S. 24(1) Of the Act;(2)  that under S. 24 Of the Act the essential supply shouldhave  been available for the use of the tenant at some	timewhen the Act was in force, and as, in the instant case,	 thefirst  respondent  was	not in enjoyment of  the  supply  ofmunicipal water at any time after the coming into effect  ofAct,  the  appellant  could  not  be  convicted	 under	thatsection.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 65  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril  22,  1955,  of  the Bombay  High	 Court	in  CriminalRevision  Application  No. 449 of 1955, arising out  of	 thejudgment and order dated March 24, 1955, of the Court of thePresidency Magistrate, Seventh Court, Dadar, Bombay in	CaseNo. 215/S of 1955.Rameshwar  Nath, S. N. Andley and J. B. Dadachanji, for	 theappellant.T.   Satyanarayan, for respondent No. 1.N.   S. Bindra and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 2.1958.  February 20.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySINHA J.-The only question for determination in this appeal,is  whether an offence punishable under s. 24(1)(4)  of	 theBombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act	LVIIof  1947  (hereinafter	referred to as the  Act),  has	beenbrought home to the appellant.The facts of this case are short and simple.  The  appellantis  the	 owner,	 by purchase in 1945,  of  certain  premisessituate	 in Vile Parle, Bombay.	 Under	the  predecessor-in-title  of  the appellant, was a tenant, named  Thirumal	 RaoPotdar, in respect of a room in1771396those premises, at a monthly rent of Rs. 20 including  waterrate of Rs. 2. After the, appellaiit's purchase, the  tenantaforesaid continued to hold the tenancy on those very terms.The said premises used to enjoy the amenity of water  supplyfrom  a	 municipal tap.	 As the	 appellant's  predecessor-in-title	had made default in payment of municipal taxes,	 thewater  supply had been cut off by the Municipality early  inMay, 1947.  Since after that, the tenants including the saidThirumal  Rao, had the use of well water only from a  neigh-bouring	 tenant.   Thirumal Rao died in or  about  the	year1950,  and  his widow, the first  respondent,  continued  inoccupation  of	the  premises, without	having	the  use  ofmunicipal  water  supply  though she continued	to  pay	 theoriginal  rent	plus  annas 10 more  by	 way  of  'permittedincrease'.    Thus,  the  landlord  the	 appellant-went	  onreceiving  the	monthly rent of Rs. 20-10-0 from  the  firstrespondent  without giving her the benefit of  water  supplyfrom the municipal tap.	 The Act came into force on February13, 1948.  The tenancy appears to have been recorded in	 hername  some time in 1951.  Nothing appears to  have  happeneduntil  April, 1954, when the first respondent brought it  tothe  notice of the Municipal authorities that the supply  ofwater  from the municipal tap had been stopped	since  1947.The  Municipality answered the first respondent's  complaintby  a  letter  dated May 24, 1954,  saying  that  the  waterconnection could be restored on payment of Rs. 11-4-0  only,being  the  fee	 for doing so, if the  owner's	consent	 wasproduced.    Before   receiving	  this	 answer	  from	 theMunicipality,  the  tenant  got	 a  letter  written  to	 theappellant,  through a pleader, asking him to refund  Rs.  72being  the  amount  charged for water supply at	 Rs.  2	 permonth,	which was included in the total rent  aforesaid	 forthree years after the tenancy had been mutated in her  name.The  letter  also stated that the supply of water  had	beenwithheld  by  the landlord by allowing the  Municipality  todisconnect the water connection for non-payment of municipaldues.	The landlord was also called upon to get  the  waterconnection restored, and if he failed to do so,	 prosecutionunder1397s.24  of  the  Act, was threatened.  As	 the  appellant	 hadrefused or neglected to have the water connection  restored,the  tenant filed a petition of complaint on June 14,  1954,for the prosecution of the appellant under s. 24 of the Act.The  appellant	was  convicted. after a	 trial	by  the	 7thPresidency  Magistrate,	 Dadar, by his	judgment  and  orderdated March 24, 1955.  He was sentenced to undergo one day'ssimple	imprisonment, and to pay a fine of Rs. 150,  and  indefault of payment, to undergo one month's simple  imprison-ment.	The  appellant	moved the High Court  of  Bombay  inrevision  against  the	order  of  conviction  and  sentenceaforesaid.  The matter was heard by a judge sitting  singly,who  summarily	rejected the application by an	order  datedApril  22, 1955.  The appellant moved the High Court  for  acertificate  that  this was a fit case for  appeal  to	thisCourt,	which  was refused by a Division Bench	on  May	 16,1955.	Thereafter,  the  appellant  moved  this  Court	 forspecial	 leave'	 which	was granted  on	 October  10,  1955.Hence, this appeal.The  learned  counsel for the appellant raised a  number  ofcontentions against the conviction and sentence imposed uponthe appellant, but in the view we take of the provisions  ofs. 24 of the Act, it is not necessary to pronounce upon	 allthose  contentions.   The most important question  which  wehave to determine in this appeal, is whether the constituentelements of an offence under s. 24(1), have been made out onthe facts found in this case.  Section 24 is in these terms"  24. (1) No landlord either himself or through any  personacting or purporting to act on his behalf shall without justor sufficient cause cut off or withhold any essential supplyor service enjoyed by the tenant in respect of the  premiseslet to him.(2)  A	tenant	in occupation of the premises  may,  if	 thelandlord  has contravened the provisions of subsection	(1),make an application to the Court for a direction to  restoresuch supply or service.(3)  If the Court on inquiry finds that the tenant has	beenin enjoyment of the essential supply or1398service and that it was cut off or withheld by the  landlordwithout	 just or sufficient cause, the Court shall  make  anorder  directing  the  landlord to restore  such  supply  orservice	 before	 a date to be specified in the	order.	 Anylandlord  who fails to restore the supply or service  beforethe  date so specified shall for each day during  which	 thedefault	 continues  there,after	 be liable  upon  a  furtherdirection  by  the Court to that effect to  fine  which	 mayextend to one hundred rupees.(4)  Any   landlord,  who  contravenes	the  provisions	  ofsubsection  (1)	 shall, on conviction,	be  punishable	withimprisonment for a term which may extend to three months  orwith fine or with both.Explanation  I.-In this section essential supply or  serviceincludes  supply of water, electricity, lights	in  passagesand  on	 staircases,  lifts  and  conservancy  or   sanitaryservice.Explanation   II.-For	the  purposes	of   this   section,withholding  any essential supply 'or service shall  includeacts or omissions attributable to the landlord on account ofwhich  the  essential supply or service is cut	off  by	 thelocal authority or any other competent authority."The explanation II was inserted by s. 16 (2) of the AmendingAct,  namely, Bombay Act 61 of 1953, and the explanation  1,as  it	now  stands, was the  only  explanation	 before	 theamending  Act was passed.  It has not been denied before  usthat  the  supply of tap water is an essential	supply,	 andthat  is beyond controversy in view of explanation  1.	Whathas  been argued, is that the supply of municipal water	 hadbeen cut off by the Municipality as a result of the  defaultin   payment   of  municipal  dues,   by   the	 appellant'spredecessor-in-title.  It may be that the appellant was	 notto  blame for the default in payment of municipal dues,	 butit  was	 open to him to pay Rs. 11-4-0 and  have  the  waterconnection   restored.	 He  may  not  have  been   directlyresponsible for the .cutting off of the supply of  municipalwater,	but  it	 was  within his power	to  get	 the  supplyrestored  by the Municipality on payment of  the  prescribedfee.  Hence,1399in  so	far  as	 the appellant omitted to  do  so,  such  anomission  is  attributable  to him  within  the	 meaning  ofexplanation  II	 which was inserted into the  Act  in  1953.There  can,  therefore, be no doubt that the  appellant	 wascontinuing  to	withhold  an  essential	 supply	 within	 themeaning of s. 24, as it stood in 1953.But that is not the only essential ingredient of the offencecreated	 by  s. 24.  In order to attract the  provisions  ofthat   section,	 it  is	 also  necessary  that	the   secondingredient  of	the offence, should be there,  namely,	thatthat essential supply-tap water supply by the  Municipality-should	have been enjoyed by the tenant.  Is it enough	thatthis  essential supply should have been " enjoyed "  by	 thetenant	at any past time, however remote, or that it  shouldhave  been  " enjoyed " at any time after  the	coming	intoeffect of the Act?  We are assuming for the purposes of thisdecision  that	the first respondent was the tenant  at	 allmaterial  times.   In  our opinion,  the  section  makes  itessential that the particular essential supply should  -havebeen  available for the use of the tenant at some time	whenthe  Act was in force.	If, on the other hand,	the  sectionwere construed in the sense that the supply should have been" enjoyed " at some time in the remote past, that is, beforethe  Act was enforced, the act of the landlord, when it	 wascommitted,  may not have been penal; but the same act  wouldbecome penal on the coming into effect of the Act.  In	thatsense, it would amount to ex post facto legislation, and  wecannot accede to the argument that such was the intention ofthe  Legislature-an  intention which would come	 within	 theprohibition of Art. 20 (1) of the Constitution.But  it	 has been said that the expression "enjoyed  by	 thetenant " in s. 24, does not necessarily mean that the tenantshould have physically made use of the essential supply, andthat  the requirements of the section are satisfied  if	 thetenant	had  the  right vested in him to  call	for  such  asupply.	  In  other words, the argument is that the  word  "enjoyed	 "  does not import physical use of the	 amenity  inquestion, but1400the  juridical aspect of it in the sense that the supply  ofthe  water, was one of the rights vested in the tenant.	  Onthis  construction, if the tenant had, as in this  case	 thefirst  respondent  had,	 the right to enjoy  the  supply  ofwater, that would amount to her having " enjoyed the supply,and,  thus,  both  the	requirements  of  s.  24  would	  befulfilled.   In	 our  opinion, it  would  be  straining	 thelanguage of the section to say that" enjoyed" should mean  "had  the right to enjoy ". If that was the intention of	 theLegislature,  those words would have been  different.	Thatthis was not the intention of the Legislature, becomes clearon  an	examination  of	 the terms of  sub.s.  (3)  of	thatsection.  It speaks of " the tenant has been in enjoyment ofthe  essential supply or service and that it was cut off  orwithheld by the landlord " which imports recent " enjoyment"until  the  supply was cut off, and not "enjoyment"  in	 theremote	past.  If the intention was that "enjoyment"  shouldhave been at any time in the past, irrespective of the	con-sideration  when  the Act came into force,  the	 Legislaturewould have used some other words to indicate that intention,even assuming that the Legislature could have done so.	 Butit  was	 suggested  that  sub-s. (1) of	 s.  24,  was  self-contained,  and	 that it was not necessary to  construe	 itsterms in the light of the provisions of sub-ss. (2) and	 (3)which go together.  But it is clear from the terms of sub-s.(2) that it cannot come into operation without the  landlordhaving contravened the provisions of sub-s. (1).  Therefore,the provisions of s. 24 have to be construed as a whole,  inorder to find out the true intention of the Legislature.It,  may  also be pointed out that it is  doubtful  whether,before the second explanation was inserted into the section,as  aforesaid, in 1953, the cutting off of the water  supplyby the Municipality, or the omission of the landlord to takesteps  to  have	 the connection restored,  would  have	comewithin	the  mischief of the penal section.   Supposing	 thesecond	explanation  was not there,  could  the	 prosecutionattribute  the cutting off of the connection by the  Munici-pality, and the subsequent refusal of the landlord1401to get the connection restored, as an act or omission of thelandlord within the meaning of s. 24 (1) ?  It has got to beremembered  that the provisions of s. 24 are meant to be  anadditional  guarantee  to  the	tenant,	 of  his   continuedenjoyment  of  the  rights  created in	his  favour  by	 thecontract of tenancy apart from his rights under the  generallaw.   The landlord could not only be penalized	 for  havinginterrupted  the  enjoyment of any one	of  these  essentialrights,	 the tenant could approach the court  under  sub-ss.(2)  and  (3)  of the section, to issue	 a  mandate  to	 thelandlord  to  restore  the supply or the  service  before  aspecified  date, the infringement of which would entail	 theliability  to  recurring fines until the  mandate  had	beencarried	 out  by the landlord.	These are provisions  of  anexceptional character, meant to be in force for a  specifiedperiod during which the Legislature thought it advisable andexpedient to provide for such extraordinary remedies.	Suchremedies  which are inroads upon the landlord's	 freedom  ofaction, have to be construed strictly in accordance with thewords  actually used by the Legislature, and they cannot  begiven an extended meaning.In  view of these considerations, it must be held  that	 thecomplainant-the first respondent-has not shown that she	 hadenjoyed	 the  amenity of the supply of tap  water  from	 theMunicipality at any time after the Act came into force,	 andas  that  is  one of the two essential	conditions  for	 theapplication of the section, it must be held that the offenceunder s. 24 (1) of the Act, has not been brought home to theappellant.   The  appeal is, accordingly, allowed,  and	 theconviction and sentence are set aside.Appeal allowed.1402