PETITIONER:SIRAJUL HAQ KHAN & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE SUNNI CENTRAL BOARD OF WAQF,U. P. & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/09/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  198		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)1287 CITATOR INFO : R	    1974 SC 968	 (49) R	    1979 SC 289	 (35) RF	    1987 SC1161	 (4) RF	    1991 SC2160	 (18)ACT:Waqf-Suit against Central Board -  Notice--Limitation-UnitedProvinces Muslims Waqf Act (U.	P. XIII of 1936), ss. 5, 53-The Indian Limitation Act (IX of 1908), s. 15.HEADNOTE:The respondent No. 1, a Central Board constituted under	 theUnited	Provinces Muslims Waqf Act, 1936, by a	notificationunder s. 5(1) Of the Act dated February 26, 1944, took into'management  the properties of a Darga Sharif and on  October18,  1946, the appellants, three of the five members of	 theManaging  Committee  of the said Darga Sharif,	brought	 thesuit,  out  of	which  the  present  appeal  arises,  for  adeclaration  that the Darga properties did not constitute  awaqf  within the meaning of the Act and that the  respondentNo. 1 had no lawful authority to, issue the notification andassume	management of the said properties.  It was urged  onbehalf	of  respondent	No. 1 that the	suit  had  not	beenbrought within one year as prescribed by s. 5(2) of the Act,and  was as such barred by limitation; and, that  since	 thenotice	prescribed  by s. 53 Of the Act had  admittedly	 notbeen served on the respondent, the suit was incompetent.  Itwas found that in an earlier suit, brought with the sanctionof the Advocate General, against the Managing Committee	 fortheir  removal and the framing of a fresh scheme,  a  decreehad  been passed against the appellants on October 16  1941,and  it directed them not to interfere with the	 affairs  ofthe  Darga  as members of the said Committee and  to  complywith the direction removing them from office.  On appeal thesaid  decree  was set aside by the Chief Court on  March  7,1946.  It was contended on behalf of the appellants that  S.5(2)  Of the Act had no application and even if it had,	 thesuit was within time by virtue of the provisions of s. 15 ofthe Limitation Act.Held,	that  the  contentions	raised	on  behalf  of	 theappellants must be negatived.The  expression " any person interested in a waqf " used  ins. 5(2) Of the United Provinces Muslims Waqf Act, 1936, pro-perly	construed,   means  any	 person	 interested   in   atransaction  that is held to be waqf by the Commissioner  ofWaqfs  appointed  under the Act and as such  the  appellantsfell within that category.Where  a  literal  construction defeats the  object  of	 thestatute	 and makes part of it meaningless, it is  legitimateto adopt a liberal construction that gives a meaning to	 theentire provision and makes it effective.Chaturbhuj Mohanlal v. Bhicam Chand Choroyia & Sons,  (1948)3 C.W.N. 410, Mathu Kutty v. Varoe Kutty, A.I.R. 1950 Mad. 4and  Lal  Chand v. Messrs.  Basanta Mal Devi Dayal  &  Ors.,1947) 49 P.L.R. 246, referred to.Rules	of  limitation	are  arbitrary	in  nature  and	  inconstruing  hem	 it is not permissible to  import  equitableconsiderations,	 and  effect must be given  to	tile  strictgrammatical  meaning  of he words used.	 Section 15  of	 theLimitation  Act can be attracted only where a suit has	beenstayed	by  an	injunction or order and the  test  would  bewhether	 its  institution would or would not be	 an  act  incontempt of the court's order.Nagendra  Nath Dey V. Suresh Chandra Dey, (1932) 34 Bom.  R.1065,  Narayan Jivangouda v. Puttabai, (1944) 47 Bom.	L.R.Beti  Maharani v. The Collector of Etawah, (1894) I.L.R.  17All.  198 and Sundaramma v. Abdul Khader, (1932)  I.L.R.  56Mad. 490, relied on.Musammat Basso Kaur v. Lala Dhua Singh, (1888) 15 I.A.	211,held inapplicable.The  order of the court in the earlier suit was	 neither  aninjunction nor an order of the nature contemplated by s.  15Of the Limitation Act and so that section was inapplicable.Offerings  made from time to time by the  devotees  visitingthe Darga Sharif were by their very nature an income of	 theDarga, and failure to mention them in the notification unders.   5(1)  Of  the  Act, did  not  render  the	notificationdefective.The  provision	as  to notice under S. 53  Of  the  Act	 wasapplicable to suits in respect of acts of the Central  Boardas well as suits for any relief in respect of the waqf.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 121 of 1955.Appeal	from  the  judgment  and  decree  dated	 April	 22,1953/24th  February,  1954,  of	 the  Allahabad	 High  Court(Lucknow Bench) in F. C. Appeal No. 50 of 1947, arising	 outof  the	 judgment and decree dated April 15,  1947,  of	 theCourt  of the Civil Judge, Bahraich, in Regular Suit No.  25of 1946.S.   K.	 Dar,  Ch.  Akhtar Hussain and C. P.  Lal,  for	 theappellants.Ch.  Niyamatullah, Onkar Nath Srivastava, J. B.	 Dadachanji,S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for respondent No. 1.1958.	September  16.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered by1289GAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-The	suit from which this  appeal  arisesrelates	 to  a shrine and tomb known as Darga  Hazarat	SyedSalar Mahsood Ghazi situated in the village of Singha Parasiand  properties appurtenant to it.  The plaintiffs who	havepreferred  this appeal are members of' the  Waqf  Committee,Darga  Sharif,	Bharaich,  and, in  their  suit,  they	haveclaimed	 a declaration that the properties in suit were	 notcovered	 by the provisions of the United  Provinces  MuslimsWaqfs  Act (U.	P. XIII of 1936) (hereinafter  described  asthe Act).  The declaration, the consequential injunction andthe  two  other	 subsidiary reliefs  are  claimed  primarilyagainst	 respondent  1,	 the Sunni Central  Board  of  Waqf,United Provinces of Agra and Oudh.  Two trustees who did notjoin the appellants in filing the suit are impleaded as	 proforma  defendants 2 and 3 and they are respondents 2  and  3before	us. It appears that respondent 1 purported to  exer-cise  its  authority over the properties in suit  under	 theprovisions of the Act and that led to the present suit whichwas  filed  on	October	 18, 1946 (No.	25  of	1946).	 Theappellants' case is that the properties in suit are  outsidethe  operative provisions of the Act and not subject to	 thejurisdiction  of  respondent 1, arid so,  according  to	 theappellants,  respondent	 1 has acted illegally	and  withoutjurisdiction  in assuming authority over the  management  ofthe  said  properties.	 That is the basis  of	the  reliefsclaimed by the appellants in their plaint.The  appellants'  claim	 was resisted  by  respondent  I  onseveral grounds.  It was alleged that the properties in suitdid  form a waqf as defined by the Act and were	 covered  byits  operative provisions.  It was urged that  respondent  Iwas  a	duly  constituted Sunni Central	 Board	and  it	 wasauthorised  to exercise supervision over the  management  ofthe said waqf.	The case for respondent I also was that	 theappellants'   suit   was  barred  by  limitation   and	 wasincompetent  inasmuch as before the filing of the  suit	 theappellants had not given the statutory notice as required bys. 53 of the Act.On these pleadings several issues were framed by the1290learned	 trial	judge; but the principal points	 in  disputewere three :(1)  Are the properties in suit governed by the Act ?(2)  Is the suit in time ? and(3)  Is the suit maintainable without notice as required  bys. 53 of the Act ?The  learned  trial judge held that the properties  in	suitcannot	be  held to be waqf as defined by the Act.   In	 hisopinion it was not the village Singha Parasi but its profitsfree  from land revenue that had been granted in  trust	 forthe  shrine and its khadims; and since the usufruct  of	 theprofits was subject to the condition of resumption and sincethe  profits had not been vested in the Almighty, the  grantcannot	be  construed  to  be  a  waqf	as  contemplated  byMuhamniadan Law.  On the question of limitation the  learnedjudge  held  that s. 5(2) of the Act applied to the  suit  ;but, according to him, though the suit was filed beyond	 theperiod	of one year prescribed by the said section,  it	 waswithin time having regard to the provisions of s. 14 of	 theLimitation Act.	 The plea raised by respondent 1 under s. 53of the Act was partly upheld by the learned trial judge;  hetook the view that the first three relief,-, claimed by	 theappellants  were  barred  but the fourth was  not.   In	 theresult the learned judge granted a declaration in favour  ofthe  appellants to the effect that " the shrine in  questiontogether  with its attached buildings and the Chharawa	werenot  waqf  properties within the meaning of the Act."  As  aconsequence, an injunction was issued restraining respondent1 from removing or dissolving the committee of management ofthe appellants and respondents 2 and 3 " not otherwise	thanprovided  for  under  s.  18 of the Act in  so	far  as	 themanagement and supervision of those properties are concernedin respect of which the appellants were not being granted  adecree	for a declaration sought for by them in view of	 theabsence of the notice under s. 53 of the Act ". The rest  ofthe appellants' claim was dismissed.  This decree was passedon April 15, 1947.1291Against this decree respondent I preferred an appeal in	 theHigh  Court of Judicature at Allahabad (Lucknow	 Bench)	 andthe  appellants filed cross objections.	 The High Court	 hasreversed  the finding of the trial court on the question  asto  the character of the properties in suit.   According  tothe  High  Court  the said properties  constituted  waqf  asdefined	 by the Act.  The High Court has also held that	 thesuit  filed by the appellants was barred by  limitation	 andwas  also  in-'	 competent  in view of	the  fact  that	 thestatutory  notice required by s. 53 of the Act had not	beengiven  by  the appellants prior to its	institution.   As  aresult of these findings the appeal preferred by  respondentI   was	 allowed,  the	appellants'  cross-objections	weredismissed,  the	 decree passed by the trial  court  was	 setaside  and the appellants' suit dismissed (April 22,  1953).The  appellants then applied for and obtained a	 certificatefrom the High Court to prefer an appeal to this Court  underArt.  133 of the Constitution.	That is how this appeal	 hascome to this Court.Though	the  dispute between the parties raises	 only  threeprincipal  issues, the facts leading to the  litigation	 aresomewhat  complicated ; and it is necessary to mention	themin  order  to get a clear picture of the background  of	 thepresent	 dispute.   It is believed that Syed  Salar  MahsoodGhazi  was a nephew of Muhammad Ghazni and he met his  deathat  the hands of a local chieftain when he paid a  visit  toBahraich.   On his death his remains were buried in  villageSingha	Parasi by his followers and subsequently a tomb	 wasconstructed.   In course of time this tomb became an  objectof  pilgrimage and veneration.	Urs began to be held at	 theshrine	every year and it was attended by a large number  ofdevotees who made offerings before the shrine.	It is partlyfrom  the  income  of  these  offerings	 that  the  tomb  ismaintained.  Certain properties were endowed by the Emperorsof Delhi in favour of this tomb and accretions were made  tothe  said properties by the savings from the income  of	 theendowed	  properties  and  the	offerings  brought  by	 thedevotees.1641292The tomb was managed by a body of persons known as  Khuddamsof  the Darga.	This body had been looking after  the  Dargaand the performance of ceremonies and other services at	 theshrine.	  Whilst the management of the Darga was being	thuscarried	 on,  Oudh  came  to be	 annexed  in  1856  and	 theproclamation issued by Lord Canning confiscated all  privateproperties  and	 inams in the said  State.   The  propertiesattached to the Darga were no exception.  Fresh	 settlementswere,  however,	 subsequently made by the  Government  as  aresult	of  which previously existing  rights  were  revivedusually	 on  the  same terms as before.	  This	happened  inregard to the properties appertaining to the Darga.It  would  appear  that in 1859 or 1860	 a  Sanad  had	beengranted	 to  Fakirulla who was the head of  the	 khadims  inrespect	 of rent-free tenure of the village  Singha  Parasi.The  grantee was given the right to collect the usufruct  ofthe  village  which  was  to  be  appropriated	towards	 themaintenance of the Darga.  The grantee's son Inayatulla	 wasapparently  not	 satisfied with the limited  rights  grantedunder  the Sanad and so he brought an action, Suit No. 1  of1865,  claiming proprietary rights in the  said	 properties.Inayatulla's  suit was substantially dismissed	on  November11,  1870, by the Settlement Officer.  It was held that	 theproprietary  rights  of	 the Government in  respect  of	 theproperties  had	 been alienated for ever in  favour  of	 thecharity	 and so the properties were declared to vest in	 theendowment.  Inayatulla's right to manage the said propertiesunder the terms of the grant was, however, recognized.	Soonafter  this  decision, it was brought to the notice  of	 theChief  Commissioner  in 1872 that the khadims at  the  Dargawere  mismanaging the properties of the Darga and  were	 notproperly  maintaining the Darga itself.	 On  receiving	thiscomplaint a committee of mussalmans was appointed to examinethe  affairs  of  the  Darga and  to  make  a  report.	 Thecommittee  submitted  its report on February 20,  1877,	 andmade  recommendations for the improvement of the  managementof   the  Darga	 and  its  properties.	 According  to	 thecommittee, it wasnecessary  to appoint a jury of five persons  including	 twokhadims	 to manage the Darga and its properties.   Meanwhilesome of the lands appurtenant to the Darga had been sold andofferings  made by the devotees as well as other  propertieshad  become  the  subject-matter  of  attachment.   In	 theinterest  of  the  Darga, Government then  decided  to	takepossession  of	the  properties	 under	the  provisions	  ofPensions  Act,	(XXIII of 1873.) This decision	was  reachedafter  the Government had considered the report made by	 theDeputy	Commissioner  on  August 31, 1878.   The  result  ofdeclaring   that  the  properties  were	 governed   by	 theprovisions  of the Pensions Act was to free  the  propertiesfrom  the mortgages created by the khadims.  The  managementof the Darga and its properties by the Government  continueduntil 1902.During this period Inayatulla attempted to assert his rightsonce more by instituting a suit in the civil court in  1892.In  this suit Inayatullah and two others who had joined	 himclaimed possession of the Darga together with the  buildingsappurtenant thereto and village Singha Parasi.	Their  claimwas  decreed  by  the trial court; but on  appeal  the	saiddecree was set aside on July 20, 1897.	The appellate  courtof the Judicial Commissioner held that Inayatulla's  allega-tion that the proprietary interest in the properties  vestedin  him	 was not justified.  Even so,  the  appellate  courtobserved  that	it  was	 not proper  or	 competent  for	 theGovernment  to interfere in the management of the  waqf	 andits  properties;  the Darga was	 a  religious  establishmentwithin the meaning or Religious Endowments Act (XX of  1863)and  the assumption of the management of the Darga  and	 itsproperties was unauthorised and improper.As a result of these observations the Legal Remembrancer  tothe  Government	 of the United Provinces of  Agra  and	Oudhfiled a suit, No. 9 of 1902, under s. 539 (present s. 92) ofthe Code of Civil Procedure.  This suit ended in a decree onDecember 3, 1902.  By the decree the properties in suit weredeclared  "  to vest in the trustees when appointed  ".	 Thedecree further provided for a scheme for the management of1294the  Darga and its properties.	The scheme thus framed	cameinto operation and the trustees appointed under it began  tomanage the Darga and its properties.  The scheme appears  tohave  worked  smoothly until 1934.  In 1934 Ashraf  Ali	 andothers clamed (Suit No. 1 of 1934) that an injunction shouldbe issued restraining the defendants from taking part in themanagement of the affairs of the Darga.	 The plaintiffs alsoprayed	that  the  defendants  should  be  prohibited	fromspending   monies  belonging  to  the  waqf   on   frivolouslitigations  due  to party feelings.  On May  7,  1934,	 thelearned	 District Judge expressed his regret that  animosityand  party feelings should find their way in the  managementof  a  trust  and issued an order  directing  the  defendantcommittee  that	 no money out of the Darga funds  should  bespent either in the litigation pending before him, or in anyother litigation, without the sanction of the court.For nearly six years after the date of this order the  Dargaand  its  properties  appear  to have  been  free  from	 anylitigation.   This  peace was, however, again  disturbed  in1940  when  a  suit  was filed (No.  1	of  1940)  with	 thesanction of the Advocate-General by five plaintiffs  againstthe  managing committee and its trustees for  their  removaland for the framing of a fresh scheme.	On October 16, 1941,the  suit  was	decreed.  The  managing	 committee  and	 thetrustees, however, challenged the said decree by  preferringan appeal to the Chief Court.  Their appeal succeeded and onMarch 7, 1946, the decree under appeal was set aside, thougha  few minor amendments were made in the original scheme  ofmanagement.Whilst this litigation was pending between the parties,	 theUnited	Provinces Muslim Waqfs Act (U.P. XIII of  1936)	 waspassed	in  1936 for better governance,	 administration	 andsupervision  of	 the  specified muslim waqfs  in  U.  P.  Inpursuance  of  the provisions of the Act, respondent  I	 wasconstituted  and, under s. 5(1), it issued the	notificationon February 26, 1944, declaring the properties in suit to bea  Sunni  Waqf under the Act.  After this  notification	 wasissued, respondent 1 called upon the committee of managementof1295the waqf to submit its annual budget for approval and to getits  accounts  audited by its auditors.	 Respondent  I	alsopurported  to levy the usual contributions against the	waqfunder  s.  54 of the Act.  The members of the  committee  ofmanagement  and	 the  trustees with  the  exception  of	 twopersons held that the properties in suit did not  constitutea  waqf within the meaning of the Act and that respondent  1had no authority or jurisdiction to supervise the managementof the said properties.	 That is how the appellants came  toinstitute  the	present suit on October	 18,  1946,  againstrespondent  1.	That  in brief is the  back  ground  of	 thepresent dispute.For  the appellants Mr. Dar has raised three  points  beforeus.  He contends that the High Court was in error in  comingto the conclusion that the properties in suit constituted  awaqf  over which respondent I can exercise its authority  orjurisdiction  and  he argues that it was erroneous  to	haveheld that the appellants' suit was barred by s. 5(2) and wasincompetent under s. 53 of the Act.  Mr. Dar has fairly con-ceded that if the finding of the High Court on the  questionof limitation or on the question of the bar pleaded under s.53  was	 upheld,  it would be unnecessary  to  consider	 themerits of his argument about the character of the propertiesin suit.  Since we have reached the conclusion that the HighCourt was right in holding that the suit was barred under s.5(2) and was also incompetent under s. 53 of the Act, we  donot  propose  to  decide  the question	as  to	whether	 theproperties  in	dispute are waqf within the meaning  of	 theAct.   The plea of limitation under s. 5(2) as well  as	 theplea  of  the bar under s. 53 are in  substance	 preliminaryobjections  to the maintanability or competence of the	suitand  we propose to deal with these objections on  the  basisthat  the properties in dispute are outside the	 purview  ofthe Act as alleged by the appellants.Before dealing with the question of limitation, it would  beuseful	to refer to the relevant part of the scheme  of	 theAct.  Section 4 of the Act provides for the survey of  waqfsto be made by the Commissionerof Waqfs appointed under sub-s. (1) of s. 4. Subsection	 (3)requires  the Commissioner to ascertain and determine  interalia  the  number of Shia and Sunni Waqfs in  the  district,their  nature, the gross income of the properties  comprisedin them as well as the expenses incurred in the	 realisationof   the  income  and  the  pay	 of  the   mutawalli.	 TheCommissioner has also to ascertain and determine whether thewaqf  in  question  is	one  of	 those	exempted  from	 theprovisions of the Act under s. 2. The result of this enquiryhas to be indicated by the Commissioner in his report to theState Government under subs. (5).  Section 6 deals with	 theestablishment  of two separate Boards to be called the	ShiaCentral Board and the Sunni Central Board of Waqfs.  Section18  defines the functions of the Central Boards and  confersoil   them  general  powers  of	 superintendence  over	 themanagement of the waqfs under their jurisdiction.  After theBoards	are constituted a copy of the Commissioner's  reportreceived  by the State Government is forwarded to them	and,under  s. 5, sub-s. (1), each Central Board is	required  assoon as possible to notify in the official gazette the waqfsrelating  to the particular sect to which, according to	 thesaid  report, the provisions of the Act apply.	It is  afterthe  prescribed notification is issued by the Board that  itcan proceed to exercise its powers under s. 18 in respect ofthe  waqfs thus notified.  It is the notification issued  byrespondent under s. 5 (1) and the subsequent steps taken  byit in exercise of its authority that have led to the presentsuit.Mr.  Dar  contends that the provisions of s. 5	(2)  do	 notapply to the present suit, and so the argument that the suitis  barred  by	limitation under  the  said  section  cannotsucceed.   It is clear that the notification was  issued  onFebruary  26, 1944, and the suit has been filed	 on  October18, 1946.  Thus there can be no doubt that if the one year'slimitation  prescribed	by s. 5 (2) applies to	the  presentsuit  it would be barred by time unless the  appellants	 areable  to  invoke the assistance of s. 15 of  the  LimitationAct.  But, according to Mr. Dar, the present suit is outsides. 5 (2)1297altogether  and	 so  there is no question  of  invoking	 theshorter period of limitation prescribed by it.Let  us	 then proceed to consider whether the  present	suitfalls within the mischief of s. 5 (2) or not.  Section 5 (2)provides that:" The mutawalli of a waqf or any person interested in a waqfor  a  Central Board may bring a suit in a  civil  court  ofcompetent   jurisdiction   for	a   declaration	  that	 anytransaction  held by the Commissioner of waqfs to be a	waqfis not a waqf, or any transaction held or assumed by him notto  be	a  waqf is a waqf, or that a waqf  held	 by  him  topertain	 to a particular sect does not belong to that  sect,or  that  any waqf reported by such  Commissioner  as  beingsubject	 to  the provisions of this Act	 is  exempted  undersection 2, or that any waqf held by him to be so exempted issubject to this Act."The  proviso  to this section prescribes the period  of	 oneyear's	limitation  to	a suit by a mutawalli  or  a  personinterested in the waqif.  Sub-section (4) of s. 5 lays	downthat  the  Commissioner of the waqf's shall not	 be  made  adefendant to any suit under sub-s. (2) and no suit shall  beinstituted  against  him for anything done by  him  in	goodfaith under colour of this Act.The  appellants'  argument is that before s. 5	(2)  can  beapplied	 to  their suit it must be shown that  the  suit  isfiled  either  by  a  mutawalli of  a  waqf  or	 any  personinterested  in	the waqf.  The appellants  are	neither	 themutawallis  of the waqf nor are they persons  interested  inthe waqf.  Their case is that the properties in suit do	 notconstitute  a  waqf under the Act but are held	by  them  asproprietors, and that the notification issued by  respondentI  and	the  authority purported to be exercised  by  it  inrespect of the said properties are wholly void.	 How can theappellants  who claim a declaration and	 injunction  againstrespondent  I  on these allegations be said  to	 be  personsinterested in the waqf, asks Mr. Dar.  The word ' waqf '  asused  in this subsection must be given the meaning  attachedto it by the definition in s. 3 (1) of the Act and since theappellants  totally deny the existence of such a  waqf	theycannot be said to be interested in the ' waqf '. The1298argument thus presented appears prima facie to be attractiveand  plausible;	 but on a close examination of s. 5  (2)  itwould appear clear that the words " any person interested ina  waqf	 "  cannot  be construed  in  their  strict  literalmeaning.   If the said words are given their strict  literalmeaning,  suits for a declaration that any transaction	heldby the Commissioner to be a waqf is not a waqf can never  befiled  by a mutawalli of a waqf or a person interested in  awaqf.	The scheme of this sub-section is clear.   When	 theCentral Board assumes jurisdiction over any waqf tinder	 theAct it proceeds to do so on the decision of three points  bythe Commissioner of Waqfs.  It assumes that the property  isa  waqf, that it is either a Sunni or a Shia waqf, and	thatit is not a waqf which falls within the exceptions mentionedin  s.	2. It is in respect of each one of  these  decisionsthat  a	 suit is contemplated by s. 5, sub-s. (2).   If	 thedecision is that the property is not a waqf or that it is  awaqf  falling within the exceptions mentioned by s.  2,	 theCentral Board may have occasion to bring a suit.   Similarlyif  the decision is that the waqf is Shia and not  Sunni,  aSunni  Central Board may have occasion to bring a  suit	 andvice  versa.  Likewise the decision that the property  is  awaqf  may  be  challenged  by  a  person  who  disputes	 thecorrectness  of	 the  said decision.  The  decision  that  aproperty does not fall within the exceptions mentioned by s.2  may	also be challenged by a person who claims  that	 thewaqf attracts the provisions of s. 2. If that be the  natureof the scheme of suits contemplated by s. 5 (2) it would  bedifficult  to  imagine how the mutawalli of a  waqf  or	 anyperson	interested in a waqf can ever sue for a	 declarationthat  the transaction held by the Commissioner of the  waqfsto  be a waqf is not a waqf.  That is why we think that	 theliteral	  construction	of  the	 expression  "	any   personinterested  in	a  waqf " would render a part  of  the	sub-section wholly meaningless and ineffective.  The legislaturehas  definitely	 contemplated  that  the  decision  of	 theCommissioner of the Waqfs that a particular transaction is awaqf  can  be challenged by persons who do  not	 accept	 thecorrectness  of the said decision, and it is, this class  ofpersons who -are1299obviously  intended to be covered by the words	"any  personinterested  in	a  waqf	 ".  It	 is  well-settled  that	  inconstruing the provisions of a statute courts should be slowto adopt a construction which tends to make any part of	 thestatute	 meaningless or ineffective; an attempt must  alwaysbe  made  so  to reconcile the	relevant  provisions  as  toadvance the remedy intended by the statute.  In our opinion,on  a reading of the provisions of the relevant	 sub-sectionas  a whole there can be no doubt that the  expression	"anyperson	interested in a waqf " must mean "any person  inter-ested in what is held to be a waqf ". It is only persons whoare  interested in a transaction which is held to be a	waqfwho  would  sue for a declaration that the decision  of	 theCommissioner of the Waqfs in that behalf is wrong, and	thatthe  transaction  in fact is not a waqf under the  Act.	  Wemust accordingly hold that the relevant clause on which	 Mr.Dar has placed his argument in repelling the application  ofs.  5  (2)  to	the present suit must  not  be	strictly  orliterally construed, and that it should be taken to mean anyperson	interested  in a transaction which is held to  be  awaqf.	On  this construction the appellants  are  obviouslyinterested  in the suit properties which are notified to  bewaqf by the notification issued by respondent 1, and so	 thesuit  instituted by them would be governed by s.  5,  sub-s.(2)  and  as such it would be barred by time  unless  it  issaved under s. 15 of the Limitation Act.In  this  connection,  it may be relevant to  refer  to	 theprovisions  of	s. 33 of the Indian Arbitration	 Act  (X  of1940).	  This	section	 provides  that	 any  party  to	  anarbitration agreement desiring to challenge the existence orvalidity  of  an arbitration agreement shall  apply  to	 thecourt and the court shall decide the question on affidavits.It  would be noticed that the expression " any party  to  anarbitration agreement " used in the section poses a  similarproblem of construction.  The party applying under s. 33 maydispute	 the  very existence of the agreement  and  yet	 theapplicant is described by the section as a party to the1651300agreement.  If the expression " any party to an	 arbitrationagreement " is literally construed it would be difficult  toconceive  of a case where the existence of an agreement	 canbe  impeached  by a proceeding under s.	 33.   The  materialclause must therefore be read liberally and not literally orstrictly.  It must be taken to mean a person who is  allegedto  be a party to an arbitration agreement; in other  words,the  clause must be construed to cover cases of persons	 whoare  alleged to be a party to an arbitration  agreement	 butwho  do not admit the said allegation and want to  challengethe existence of the alleged agreement itself.	This liberalconstruction  has  been	 put  upon  the	 clause	 in  severaljudicial  decisions:  Chaturbhuj Mohanlal  v.  Bhicam  ChandChororia  & Sons Mathu Kutty v. Varoe Kutty (2) ; Lal  ChandV.  Messrs. Basanta Mal Devi Dayal & Ors. (3).	We may	alsopoint  out incidentally that in dealing with an	 applicationmade  under  s. 34 of the Arbitration Act, it  is  incumbentupon  the  court to decide first of all whether there  is  abinding	 agreement for arbitration between the	parties;  inother  words,  the allegation by one party  against  anotherthat  there is a valid agreement of reference  between	themdoes  not  preclude  the latter	 party	from  disputing	 theexistence  of the said agreement in proceedings taken  unders. 34.	These decisions illustrate the principle that  wherethe  literal  meaning  of  the words  use&  in	a  statutoryprovision  would  manifestly defeat its object by  making  apart of it meaningless and ineffective, it is legitimate andeven necessary to adopt the rule of liberal construction  soas to give meaning to all parts of the provision and to makethe whole of it effective and operative.Before we part with this part of the appellants'  case it isnecessary to point out that the argument urged by Mr. Dar onthe construction of s. 5(2) is really inconsistent with	 theappellants'   pleas  in	 the  trial  court.   The   materialallegations  in	 the plaint clearly amount to  an  admissionthat  the Darga and its appurtenant properties constitute  awaqf Under the(1) (1948) 53 C.W.N. 410.	(2) A.I.R. 1950 Mad. 64.	  (3) (1947) 49 P.L.R. 246.1301Act; but it is urged that they do not attract its provisionsfor  the reason that the waqf in question falls	 within	 theclass  of exemptions enumerated in s. 2 (ii)(a) and  (c)  ofthe Act.  " The Darga waqf ", says the plaint in para.	 11,,is  of	 such  a nature as makes it an	exception  from	 thepurview of the Act as provided by s. 2 of the Act ". Indeed,consistently  with this part of the appellants'	 case,,	 theplaint	expressly  admits that the cause of action  for	 thesuit accrued on February 26, 1944, and purports to bring thesuit within time by relying on ss. 14, 15, 18 and 29 of	 theLimitation   Act.   In	their  replication  filed   by	 theplaintiffs   an	 attempt  was  made  to	 explain  away	 theadmissions  contained  in the plaint by alleging that  "  ifever in any paper or document the word I waqf had been	usedas  a  routine	or  hurriedly then it is  vague	 and  of  nospecific  meaning  and its meaning or  connotation  is	onlytrust or amanat " ; and yet, in the statement of the case bythe  appellants' counsel, we find an express admission	thatthe subject-matter of the suit is covered by the  exemptionsof s. 2, cls. (ii) (a) and (ii) (c).  Thus, on the pleadingsthere can be no doubt that the appellants' case was that theDarga  and its properties no doubt constituted a waqf  underthe Act, but they did not fall within the purview of the Actbecause	 they  belong  to the category of  waqfs  which	 areexcepted by s. 2(ii) (a) and (c).  The argument based on theapplication of s. 2 has not been raised before us and so  ona consideration of the pleadings of the appellants it  wouldbe  open to respondent 1 to contend that the appellants	 areadmittedly  interested	in  the waqf and  their	 suit  fallswithin	the mischief of s. 5 even if the words " any  personinterested in a waqf " are literally and strictly construed.The  next question which calls for our decision	 is  whetherthe appellants' suit is saved by virtue of the provisions ofs. 15 of the Limitation Act.  That is the only provision  onwhich reliance was placed before us by Mr. Dar on behalf  ofthe appellants.	 Section 15. provides for " the exclusion oftime  during which proceedings are suspended " and  it	laysdown that " in computing the period of limitation prescribedfor any1302suit  or  application  for the execution of  a	decree,	 the,institution  or  execution of which has been staved  by  aninjunction  or	order, the time of the	continuance  of	 theinjunction or order, the day on which it was issued or	madeand the day on which it was withdrawn, shall be excluded  ".It is plain that, for excluding the time under this section,it  must  be  shown  that the institution  of  the  suit  inquestion had been stayed by an injunction or order; in otherwords, the section requires an order or an injunction  whichstays the institution of the suit.  And so in cases  fallingunder  s. 15, the party instituting the suit would  by	suchinstitution be in contempt of court.  If an express order orinjunction  is	produced by a party that clearly  meets	 therequirements  of s. 15.	 Whether the requirements of  s.  15would  be  satisfied  by  the  production  of  an  order  orinjunction   which  by	necessary  implication	 stays	 theinstitution  of	 the  suit is open  to	argument.   We	are,however,  prepared to assume in the present case that s.  15would apply even to cases where the institution of a suit isstayed	by  necessary  implication of the  order  passed  orinjunction  issued in the previous litigation.	But, in	 ouropinion,  there would be no justification for extending	 theapplication  of s. 15 on the ground that the institution  ofthe subsequent suit would be inconsistent with the spirit orsubstance  of the order passed in the  previous	 litigation.It  is	true  that rules of limitation are  to	some  extentarbitrary and may frequently lead to hardship; but there canbe  no doubt that, in construing provisions  of	 limitation,equitable  considerations are immaterial and irrelevant	 andin  applying  them  effect  must  be  given  to	 the  strictgrammatical meaning of the words used by them: Nagendra NathDey v. Suresh Chandra Dey (1).In considering the effect of the provisions contained in  s.15, it would be useful to refer to the decision of the PrivyCouncil	 in Narayan Jivangouda v. Puttabai (2).	  This	casewas  an	 offshoot  of the well-known  case  of	Bhimabai  v.Gurunathgouda (3).  It is apparent that the dispute  betweenNarayan and Gurunathgouda(1) (1932) 34 Bom.  L.R. 1065.	(2) (1944) 47 Bom.  L. R. I.(3) (1932) 35 Bom.  L. R. 200 P.C.1303ran through a long and protracted course and it reached	 thePrivy Council twice.  The decision of the, Privy Council  inBhimabai's  case  (1) upholding the  validity  of  Narayan'sadoption  no doubt led to a radical change in  the  acceptedand  current view about the Hindu widow's power to adopt  inthe  State  of	Bombay,	 but  this  decision  was  of	poorconsolation  to	 Narayan because the judgment of  the  PrivyCouncil	 in  Narayan,  Jivangouda's  case  (2)	shows	thatNarayan's  subsequent  suit  to recover	 possession  of	 theproperties in his adoptive family was dismissed as barred bytime.	The  dispute was between Narayan  and  his  adoptivemother	Bhimabai  on the one hand and Gurunathgouda  on	 theother.	 On  November  25,  1920,  Gurunathgouda  had	suedBhimabai  and  Narayan	for a declaration  that	 he  was  inpossession  of	the  lands and for  a  permanent  injunctionrestraining   the  defendants  from  interfering  with	 hispossession.   On  the same day when the suit was  filed,  aninterim injunction was issued against the defendants and  itwas  confirmed	when  the  suit was  decreed  in  favour  ofGurunathgouda.	 By  this  injunction  the  defendants	wereordered " not to take the crops from the fields in suit, notto interfere with the plaintiff's wahiwat to the said lands,not to take rent notes from the tenants and not to  obstructthe  plaintiff from taking the crops raised by him  or	fromtaking monies from his tenants ". Two important issues whicharose for decision in the suit were whether Narayan had beenduly  adopted by Bhimabai in fact and whether  Bhimabai	 wascompetent to make the adoption.	 These issues were  answeredagainst	 Narayan by the trial court.  Bhimabai	and  Narayanappealed  to the Bombay High Court, but their appeal  failedand was dismissed: Bhimabai v. Gurunathgouda (3).  There wasa  further appeal by the said parties to the Privy  Council.The  Privy  Council held that the adoption  of	Narayan	 wasvalid and so the appeal was allowed and Gurunathgouda's suitwas  dismissed	with costs throughout.	In  the	 result	 theinjunction  granted  by the courts below  was  dissolved  onNovember 4, 1932.  Oil(1) (1932) 35 Bo-.  L. R. 200 P. C.(2) (1944) 47 Bom.  L. H. I.(3) (1928) 30 Bom.  L. R. 859.1304November 25, 1932, Narayan and Bhimabai filed their suit  torecover	 possession  of the properties	from  Gurunathgouda.They sought to bring the suit within time inter alia on	 theground that the time taken up  in litigating the former suitor  at	least  the  period  commencing	from  the  grant  oftemporary  injunction  on February 25, 1920 to	November  4,1932,  when  the  injunction  was  dissolved  by  the  PrivyCouncil,  should be excluded under s. 15 of  the  LimitationAct.   This  plea  was rejected by the trial  court  and  onappeal	the  same view was taken by the Bombay	High  Court.Rangnekar   J.	 who  delivered	  the	principal   judgmentexhaustively  considered  the  relevant	 judicial  decisionsbearing on the question about the construction of s. 15	 andheld that the injunction issued against Narayan and Bhimabaiin  Gurunathgouda's suit did not help to attract s.  15	 -tothe  suit  filed by them in 1932: Narayan  v.  Gurunathgouda(1).  The matter was then taken to the Privy Council by	 theplaintiffs;  but the Privy Council confirmed the view  takenby  the	 High  Court of Bombay	and  dismissed	the  appeal:Narayan v. Puttabai (2).In dealing with the appellants' argument that the injunctionin  the	 prior	suit had been issued in wide  terms  and  insubstance  it  precluded the plaintiffs	 from  filing  theirsuit, their Lordships observed that there was nothing in theinjunction or in the decree to support their case that	theywere  prevented	 from instituting a suit for  possession  in1920  or  at  any time before the expiry of  the  period  oflimitation.   It appears from the judgment that	 Sir  ThomasStrangman  strongly contended before the Privy Council	thatsince  the title of the contending parties was	involved  inthe  suit,  it would have been quite futile to	institute  asuit  for  possession.	This argument was  repelled  by	 thePrivy  Council with the observation that " we are unable  toappreciate  this  point, for the institution of a  suit	 cannever  be said to be futile if it would thereby prevent	 therunning of limitation ". There can be little doubt that, if,on  considerations of equity the application of s. 15  couldbe extended, this was pre-(1) (1938) 40 Bom.  L.R. 1134.(2) (1944) 47 Bom.  L. R. I.1305eminently  a cast for such extended application of the	saidprovision; and yet the Privy Council construed the  materialwords used in s. 15 in their strict grammatical meaning	 andheld  that no order or injunction as required by s.  15	 hadbeen issued in the earlier litigation.	We would like to addthat,  in dealing with this point, their Lordships  did	 notthink  it  necessary  to consider  whether  the	 prohibitionrequired by s. 15 must be express or can even be implied.There  is  another decision of the Privy  Council  to  whichreference may be made.	In Beti Maharani v. The Collector ofEtawah	(1), their Lordships were dealing with a case  whereattachment before judgment under s. 485 of the Code of CivilProcedure had been issued by the court at the instance of  athird party prohibiting the creditor from recovering and thedebtor	from  paying the debt in question.   This  order  ofattachment  was	 held  not  to	be  an	order  staying	 theinstitution of a subsequent suit by the creditor under s. 15of Limitation Act of 1877.  " There would be no violation ofit  "  (said  order), observed Lord Hobhouse,  "  until	 therestrained  creditor  came  to receive	his  debt  from	 therestrained debtor.  And the institution of a suit might	 formore than one reason be a very proper proceeding on the partof the restrained creditor, as for example in this case,  toavoid  the bar by time, though it might also be	 prudent  tolet  the court which had issued the order know what  he	 wasabout  ". In Sundaramma v. Abdul Khader (2) the Madras	HighCourt,	while dealing with s. 15 of the Limitation Act,	 hasheld  that  no equitable grounds for the suspension  of	 thecause of action can be added to the provisions of the IndianLimitation Act.It  is true that in Musammat Basso Kaur v. Lala	 Dhua  Singh(3) their Lordships of the Privy Council have observed	thatit  would  be an inconvenient state of the law	if  it	werefound  necessary  for a man to institute  a  perfectly	vainlitigation under peril of losing his property if he does not; but this observation must be read in the context of  factswith which(1) (1894) I.L.R. 17 All. 198, 210, 211.(2) (1932) I.L.R.56 Mad. 490,(3) (1888) 15 I.A. 211.1306the Privy Council was dealing in this case.  The  respondentwho  was  a  debtor of the appellant had  agreed  to  conveycertain property to him setting off the debt against part ofthe price.  No money was paid by the respondent and disputesarose  as  to  the  other  terms  of  the  agreement.	 Therespondent  sued to enforce the terms of the said  agreementbut  did not succeed.  Afterwards when he sued for the	debthe  was met with the plea of limitation.  The Privy  Councilheld  that the decree dismissing the respondent's  suit	 wasthe  starting point of limitation.  The said decree  imposedon the respondent a fresh obligation to pay his debts  unders.  65	of  the	 Indian Contract  Act.	 It  was  also	heldalternatively  that  the  said decree  imported	 within	 themeaning	 of Art. 97 of Limitation Act of 1877 a	 failure  ofthe consideration which entitled him to retain it.  Thus  itis  clear  that	 the  Privy Council  was  dealing  with	 theappellants'  rights to sue which had accrued to him  on	 thedismissal  of  his  action  to	enforce	 the  terms  of	 theagreement.  It is in reference to this right that the  PrivyCouncil	 made  the  observations to which  we  have  alreadyreferred.   These observations are clearly obiter  and	theycannot, in our opinion, be of any assistance in interpretingthe words in s. 15.It  is	in  the light of this legal position  that  we	mustexamine	 the  appellants' case that the institution  of	 thepresent	 suit  had  been stayed by an  injunction  or  orderissued	against them in the earlier litigation of 1940.	  Wehave already noticed that Civil Suit No. 1 of 1940 had	beeninstituted  against the appellants with the sanction of	 theAdvocate-General for their removal and for the settlement ofa  fresh scheme.  The appellants were ordered to be  removedby  the	 learned  trial judge on October 16,  1941;  but  onappeal the decree of the trial court was set aside on  March7,  1946.   It is the period between October 16,  1941,	 andMarch  7,  1946,  that	is sought  to  be  excluded  by	 theappellants  under  s.  15 of the Limitation  Act.   Mr.	 Darcontends that the order passed by the trial judge on October16, 1941, made it impossible for the appellants to file	 thepresent suit until the final decision of the1307appeal.	  By this order the appellants were told  that	theyshould	not  in any way interfere with the  affairs  of	 theDarga  Sharif as members of the committee and should  complywith the decree of the court by which they were removed fromthe  office.   It  is  obvious that  this  order  cannot  beconstrued   as	an  order  or  an  injunction  staying	 theinstitution  of the present suit.  In fact the present	suitis the result of the notification issued by respondent I  onFebruary  26, 1944, and the subsequent steps taken by it  inthe purported exercise of its authority under the Act.	 Thecause  of action for the suit has thus arisen subsequent  tothe making of the order on which Mr. Dar relies; and on	 theplain  construction  of the order it is impossible  to	holdthat it is an order which can attract the application of  s.15  of	the Limitation Act.  We have already held  that	 therelevant  words	 used in s. 15 must  be	 strictly  construedwithout	 any consideration of equity, and so  construed,  wehave  no  doubt that the order on which Mr. Dar	 has  placedreliance  before  us  is  wholly  out  side  s.	 15  of	 theLimitation  Act.  We would, however, like to add  that	thisorder  did  not	 even in  substance  create  any  difficultyagainst the institution of the present suit.  The claim madeby the appellants in the present suit that the properties insuit  do  not  constitute a waqf  and  the  declaration	 andinjunction  for which they have prayed do not  infringe	 theearlier order even indirectly or remotely.  We must  accord-ingly hold that the High Court was right in taking the	viewthat s. 15 did not apply to the present suit and that it wastherefore filed beyond the period of one year prescribed  bys. 5(2) of the Act.That  takes us to the consideration of the next	 preliminaryobjection against the competence of the suit under s. 53  ofthe  Act.   Section  53 provides that "	 no  suit  shall  beinstituted  against  a Central Board in respect of  any	 actpurporting to be done by such Central Board under colour  ofthis Act or for any relief in respect of any waqf until	 theexpiration  of two months next after notice in	writing	 hasbeen  delivered to the Secretary, or left at the  office  ofsuch1661308Central	 Board,	 stating  the cause  of	 action,  the  name,description and place of residence of the plaintiff and 'therelief	which  he  claims; and the plaint  shall  contain  astatement that such notice has been so delivered or left  ".This  section  is similar to s. 80 of  the  Civil  ProcedureCode.	It is conceded by Mr. Dar that if s. 53	 applies  tothe  present suit the decision of the High Court  cannot  besuccessfully  challenged 'because the notice required by  s.53  has	 not  been  given  by  the  appellants	before	 theinstitution of the present suit.  His argument, however,  isthat the notification issued by respondent I on February 26,1944,  did not refer to the Darga and offerings made by	 thedevotees  before the Darga and he contends that the  presentsuit   in  respect  of	these  properties  is  outside	 theprovisions  Of s. 53 and cannot be held to be barred on	 theground	that the requisite notice had not been given by	 theappellants.  We are not impressed by this argument.   Column1  of the notification in question sets out the name of	 thecreator of the waqf as Shahan-e-Mughalia and the name of thewaqf as Syed Salar Mahsood Ghazi.  In col. 2 the name of themutawalli is mentioned while col. 3 describes the propertiesattached to the waqf.  The tomb of Syed Salar Mahsood  Ghaziwhich  is  the	object of charity in  the  present  case  isexpressly mentioned in col. 1 and so it is futile to suggestthat  the tomb or Darga had not been notified as a  waqf  byrespondent  1 under s. 5(1).  In regard to the offerings  wedo  not see bow offerings could have been mentioned  in	 thenotification.  They are made from time to time by the  devo-tees  who  visit  the Darga and by their  very	nature	theyconstitute  the income of the Darga.  It is unreasonable  toassume that offerings which would be made from year to	yearby  the	 devotees should be specified  in  the	notificationissued	under  s.  5(1).  We  must,  therefore,	 reject	 theargument that any of the suit properties have riot been dulynotified by respondent I under s. 5(1) of the Act.  If	thatbe  so, it was incumbent upon the appellants to	 have  giventhe  requisite	notice under s. 53  before  instituting	 thepresent suit.  The requirement as to notice applies to1309suits  against a Central Board in respect of their  acts  aswell as to suits for any relief in respect of any waqf.	  Itis  not	 denied	 that the present  suit	 would	attract	 theprovisions  of s. 53 if the argument that the Darga and	 theofferings are not notified is rejected.	 The result is	thatthe suit is not maintainable as a result of the	 appellant'sfailure to comply with the requirements of s. 53.  We  wouldaccordingly  confirm the finding of the High Court that	 theappellants' suit is barred by time under s. 5(2) and is alsonot  maintainable  in view of the fact that  the  appellantshave not given the requisite notice under s. 53 of the Act.The  result is that the appeal fails and is  dismissed	withcosts.Appeal dismissed.