PETITIONER:R.   M. D. CHAMARBAUGWALLA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA(with connected petitions)DATE OF JUDGMENT:09/04/1957BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1957 AIR  628		  1957 SCR  930ACT:Prize  Competition--Definition-- Construction-- If  includescompetition  other  than of a gambling	nature--Validity  ofenactment--Principle   of   severability--Application--PrizeCompetitions Act, (42 of 1955), ss. 2(d), 4, 5, rr. 11, 12.HEADNOTE:The  petitioners, who were promoting 'and  conducting  prizecompetitions  in the different States of  India,  challengedthe   constitutionality	 Of  ss.  4  and  5  Of	 the   PrizeCompetitions Act (42 of 955) and rr. xi and 12 framed  underS.  20	Of  the	 Act.	Their  contention  was	that  'prizecompetition'  as defined in S. 2(d) of the Act included	 notmerely competitions that were of a gambling nature but	alsothose  in which success depended to a substantial degree  onskill  and  the	 sections  and	the  rules  violated   theirfundamental   right   to  carry	 on   business,	  and	wereunsupportable  under  Art. 19(6) of the	 Constitution,	thatthey   constituted  a  single  inseverable  enactment	and,consequently, must fail entirely.  On behalf of the Union ofIndia  this was controverted and it was contended  that	 thedefinition, properly construed, meant and included only suchcompetitions as were of a gambling nature, and even if	thatwas  not  so, the impugned provisions,	being  severable  intheir	application,   were  valid   as	  regards   gamblingcompetitions.Held, that the validity of the restrictions imposed by SS. 4and  5	and  rr. ii and 12 of the Act  as  regards  gamblingcompetitions  was  no longer open to  challenge	 under	Art.19(6)  of the Constitution in view of the, decision of	thisCourt that gambling did not fall within the purview of	Art.19(i) (g) of the Constitution.The  State  of	Bombay v. R. M.	 D.  Chamarbaugwala,  (1957)S.C.R. 874, followed.On  a proper construction there could be no doubt  that	 thePrize  Competitions Act (42 Of 1955), in defining  the	word'prize	competition' as it did in S. 2(d), had in view	onlysuch  competitions  as	were of a  gambling  nature  and  noothers.In interpreting an enactment the Court should ascertain	 theintention  of  the  legislature not merely  from  a  literalmeaning of the words used but also from such matters as	 thehistory of the legislation, its purpose and the mischief  itseeks to suppress.The  Bengal Immunity Company Limited v. The State  of  Biharand others, (1955) 2 S.C.R. 603, referred to.931Even  assuming that prize competition as defined by S.	2(d)of  the	 Act included not merely gambling  competitions	 butalso  others  in which success depended	 to  a	considerabledegree on skill, the restrictions imposed by ss. 4 and 5 andrr.  ii	 and 12 of the Act were clearly severable  in  theirapplication to the two, distinct and separate categories  ofcompetitions  and,  consequently,  could    not	 be  void asregards gambling competitions.The principle of severability is applicable to laws  enactedby legislatures with limited powers of legislation, such  asthose  in  a  Federal Union, which fall	 partly	 within	 andpartly	outside	 their	legislative  competence,  where	 thequestion  arises  as to whether the valid can  be  separatedfrom  the invalid parts and that is a question which has  tobe  decided  by the Court on a consideration of	 the  entireprovisions of the Act.	There is, however, no basis for	 thecontention   that  the	principle  applies  only  when	 thelegislature exceeds its powers as regards the subject-matterof   legislation   and	 not   when   it   contravenes	 anyconstitutional prohibitions.In  re Hindu Women's Rights to Property Act,  (1941)  F.C.R.12, The State of Bombay and another v. F.N. Balsara,  (1951)S.C.R.	682,  and  The State of Bombay and  another  v.	 TheUnited	Motors (India) Ltd. and others, (,953)	S.C.R.	106,relied on.Punjab Province v. Daulat Singh and others, (1946) F.C.R. 1,Romesh	Thappar	 v. State of Madras, (1950) S.C.R.  594	 andChintaman Rao v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1950) S.C.R. 759,distinguished.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION :Writ Petitions Nos. 78-80, 93 and 152of 1956.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental Rights.Sir  N. P. Engineer, N. A. Palkhivala, R. A. Gagrat  and  G.Gopalakrishnan, for the petitioners in Petitions Nos. 78, 79and 80 of 1956.  Ganpat Rai, for the petitioner in petition No. 93 of 1956.  K. C.	 Jain  and B. P. Maheshwari, for the  petitioner  inPetition No. 152 of 1956.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, Porus A. Mehtaand R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent No. 1 in	  PetitionsNos. 78/56 and 152/56 and Respondents in     Petitions	Nos.79, 80 and 93 of 1956.G.  R. Ethirajulu Naidu, Advocate-General, Mysore, Porus  A.Mehta and T. M. Sen, for respondent No. 2 in Petition No. 78of 1956.932April 9. 1957.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byVENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-Pursuant to resolutions passed by	the'legislatures  of several States under Art. 252, el.  (1)  ofthe Constitution, Parliament enacted Prize Competitions Act,(42  of 1955), hereinafter referred to as the Act, and by  anotification   issued  on  March  31,  1956,   the   CentralGovernment  brought  it into force on April  1,	 1956.	 Thepetitioners   before  us  are  engaged	in   promoting	 andconducting prize competitions in different States of  India,and  they  have filed the present petitions  under  Art.  32questioning  the validity of some of the provisions  of	 theAct and the rules framed thereunder.  It will be convenient first to refer to the provisions  ofthe  Act and of the rules, so far as they are  material	 forthe  purpose  of the present petitions.	 The object  of	 thelegislation  is,  as stated in the short title	and  in	 thepreamble,  "  to provide for the control and  regulation  ofprize competitions ". Section 2(d) of the Act defines "prizecompetition"  as meaning "any competition (whether called  across-word   prize   competition,   a	missing-word   prizecompetition,  a	 picture prize competition or by  any  othername),	in which prizes are offered for the solution of	 anypuzzle based upon the building up, arrangement,	 combinationor  permutation of letters, words or figures ".	 Sections  4and 5 of the Act are-. the provisions which are impugned  asunconstitutional, and they are as follows:  4. "No   person  shall  promote  or  conduct	 any   prizecompetition or competitions in which the total value of	 theprize or prizes (whether in cash or otherwise) to be offeredin any month exceeds one thousand rupees; and in every prizecompetition,  the  number of entries shall  not	 exceed	 twothousand.  5. Subject to the provisions of section 4, no person shallpromote	 any prize competition or competitions in which	 thetotal  value  of  the prize or prizes (whether	in  cash  orotherwise)  to be offered in any month does not	 exceed	 onethousand  rupees  unless he has obtained in  this  behalf  alicence granted in933accordance  with  the provisions of this Act and  the  rulesmade thereunder.  " Then  follow  provisions as to	 licensing,  maintaining  ofaccounts  and penalties for violation thereof.	 Section  20confers	 power on the State Governments to frame  rules	 forcarrying  out  the purpose of the Act.	In exercise  of	 thepowers conferred by this section, the Central Government hasframed	rules  for  Part C States, and they  have  been,  ingeneral,  adopted  by all the States.  Two of  these  rules,namely,	 rules 11 and 12 are impugned by the petitioners  asunconstitutional, and they are as follows: 11.  "	 Entry	fee-(1) Where an entry	fee  is	 charged  inrespect	 of a prize competition, such fee shall be  paid  inmoney only and not in any other manner.(2)  The maximum amount of an entry fee shall not exceed Re.I where the total value of the prize or prizes to be offeredis  rupees  one	 thousand  but not  less  than	rupees	fivehundred;  and  in all other cases the maximum amount  of  anentry fee shall be at the following rates, namely-  (a)	  as 8 where the total value of the prize or  prizesto be offered is less than rupees five hundred but not	lessthan rupees two hundred and fifty; and (b) as.  4 where the total value of the prize or prizes  tobe offered is less than rupees two hundred and fifty.12.  Maintenance of Register.-Every licensee shall  maintainin respect of each prize competition for which a licence hasbeen granted a register in Form C and shall, for the purposeof  ensuring  that not more than two  thousand	entries	 arereceived  for scrutiny for each such competition,  take	 thefollowing steps, that is to say,shall-(a)  arrange to receive all the entries only at the place ofbusiness mentioned in the license;(b) serially  number the entries according to their order ofreceipt;(c)  post  the relevant particulars of such entries  in	 theregister in Form C as and when the entries are received	 andin  any	 case not later than the close of business  on	eachday; and120934(d)  accept  for  scrutiny  only  the  first  two  thousand.entries as they appear in the register in Form C and  ignorethe  remaining entries, if any, in cases where no entry	 feeis charged and refund the entry fee  received in respect  ofthe  entries  in  excess of the first two  thousand  to	 therespective  senders thereof in cases where an entry fee	 hasbeen charged after deducting the, cost (if any) of refund."Now,  the  contention of Mr. Palkhiwala, who  addressed	 themain  argument	in support of the petitions, is	 that  prizecompetition  as	 defined in s. 2(d) would include  not	onlycompetitions  in  which success depends on chance  but	alsothose  in which it would depend to a substantial  degree  onskill; that the conditions laid down in ss. 4 and 5 and	 rr.II  and	 12  are  wholly  unworkable  and  would  render  itimpossible  to run the competition, and that they  seriouslyencroached  on the fundamental right of the  petitioners  tocarry  on business; that they could not be  supported  underArt.  19(6)  of the Constitution as they  were	unreasonable-and amounted, in effect, to a prohibition and not merely  aregulation  of	the business; that even	 if  the  provisionscould  be  regarded as reasonable  restrictions	 as  regardscompetitions which are in the nature of gambling, they couldnot  be	 supported as regards competitions  wherein  successdepended  to a substantial extent on skill, and that as	 theimpugned law constituted a single inseverable enactment,  itmust  fail  in its entirety in respect of  both	 classes  ofcompetitions.  Mr. Seervai who appeared for the	 respondent,disputes  the correctness of these contentions.	  He  arguesthat  'prize competition' as defined in s. 2(d) of the	Act,properly construed, means and includes only competitions  inwhich  success does not depend to any substantial degree  onskill and are essentially gambling in their character;	thatgambling  activities  are not trade or business	 within	 themeaning	 of  that  expression in  Art.	19(1)(g),  and	thataccordingly  the petitioners are not entitled to invoke	 theprotection of Art. 19(6); and that even if the definition of'prize	competition'  in s. 2(d) is wide enough	 to  includecompetitions  in  which	 success depends  to  a	 substantialdegree on skill and ss. 4 and 5935of  the	 Act  and rr. 11 and 12 are to	be  struck  down  inrespect	 of such competitions as  unreasonable	restrictionsnot  protected	by  Art. 19(6), that would  not	 affect	 thevalidity of the enactment as regards the competitions  whichare  in the nature of gambling, the Act	 being	severable inits application to such competitions.These  petitions were heard along with Civil Appeal No.	 134of  1956, wherein the validity of the Bombay  Lotteries	 andPrize Competitions Control and Tax Act, 1948 was impugned ongrounds	 some of which are raised in the present  petitions.In our judgment in that appeal, we have held that trade	 andcommerce  protected by Art. 19(1)(g) and Art. 301  are	onlythose  activities which could be regarded as lawful  tradingactivities,  that  gambling  is	 not  trade  but  res  extracommercium, and that it does not fall within the purview  ofthose Articles.	 Following that decision, we must hold	thatas regards gambling competitions, the petitioners before  uscannot	seek the protection of Art. 19(1)(g), and  that	 thequestion whether the restrictions enacted in ss. 4 and 5 andrr.  11	 and 12 are reasonable and in the  interest  of	 thepublic	within	Art.  19(6) does  not  therefore  arise	 forconsideration. As  regards competitions which involve	 substantial  skill,however, different considerations arise.  They are  businessactivities,  the protection of which is guaranteed  by	Art.19(1)(g), and the question would have to be determined	withreference to those competitions whether ss. 4 and 5 and	 rr.1  1  and 12 are reasonable restrictions enacted  in  publicinterest.   But	 Mr. Seervai has fairly conceded  before  usthat  on  the materials on record in these  proceedings,  hecould not maintain that the restrictions contained in  thoseprovisions  are saved by Art. 19(6) as being reasonable	 andin the public interest.	 The ground being thus cleared,	 theonly questions that survive for our decision are (1)   whether,on the definition of 'prize competition' in s.2(d), the	 Actapplies to competitions which involve substantial skill	 andare  not  in  the nature of gambling; and (2)  if  it  does,whether	 the  provisions of ss. 4 and 5 and rr.	 II  and  12which  are, ex concessi void, as regards such  competitions,can on the principle of severability936be enforced against competitions which are in the nature  ofgambling.1.   If	 the question whether the Act applies also to  prizecompetitions  in  which success depends to  a  sub  stantialdegree	on  skill  is to be answered  solely  on  a  literalconstruction of s. 2(d), it will be difficult to resist	 thecontention of the petitioners that it does.  The  definitionof 'prize competition' in s. 2(d) is wide and unqualified inits  terms.  There is nothing in the wording, of  it,  whichlimits	it to competitions in which success does not  dependto  any	 substantial extent on skill but on chance.   It  isargued by Mr. Palkhiwala that the language of the  enactmentbeing  clear and unambiguous, it is not open to us  to	readinto  it  a limitation which is not there, by  reference  toother  and extraneous considerations.  Now, when a  questionarises	as to the interpretation to be put on an  enactment,what  the  court has to do is to ascertain " the  intent  ofthem that make it", and that must of course be gathered fromthe words actually used in the statute.	 That, however, doesnot  mean  that	 the  decision	should	rest  on  a  literalinterpretation	of the words used in disregard of all  othermaterials.   " The literal construction then", says  Maxwellon  Interpretation of Statutes, 10th Edn., p. 19,  "has,  ingeneral, but prima facie preference.  To arrive at the	realmeaning,  it is always necessary to get an exact  conceptionof the aim, scope and object of the whole Act; to  consider,according  to Lord Coke: 1. What was the law before the	 Actwas  passed; (2) What was the mischief or defect  for  whichthe  law  had not provided; (3) What remedy  Parliament	 hasappointed;  and	 (4).	The  reason  of	 the  remedy."	 Thereference   here  is  to  Heydon's  case  (1).	 These	 areprinciples  well settled, and were applied by this Court  inThe  Bengal Immunity Company Limited v. The State  of  Biharand  others  (2 ). To decide the true scope of	the  presentAct,  therefore, we must have regard to all such factors  ascan  legitimately be taken into account in ascertaining	 theintention  of  the legislature, such as the history  of	 thelegislation and the purposes thereof, the mischief which  itintended to(1) (1584) 3 W. Rep. 16; 76 E.R. 637.(2) (1955) 2 S.C.R. 603, 633.937suppress  and  the  other provisions  of  the  statute,	 andconstrue  the  language	 of  s. 2(d) in	 the  light  of	 theindications furnished by them.Turning first to the history of the legislation, its genesisis   to	 be  found  in	the  Bombay  Lotteries	and,   PrizeCompetitions Control and Tax Act (Bom.	LIV of 1948).	ThatAct  was  passed with the object of controlling	 and  taxinglotteries  and	prize competitions within  the	Province  ofBombay,	 and  as  originally enacted,  it  applied  only  tocompetitions  conducted	 within	 the  Province	of   Bombay.Section	 7  of the Act provided that  "a  prize	 competitionshall be deemed to be an unlawful prize competition unless alicence in respect of such competition has been obtained  bythe  promoter  thereof."  Section 12 imposed a	tax  on	 theamounts	 received in respect of competitions which had	beenlicensed under the Act.	 With a view to avoid the  operationof the taxing provisions of this enactment, persons who	 hadthere  to before been conducting prize	competitions  withinthe Province of Bombay shifted the venue of their activitiesto neighbouring States like Mysore, and from there continuedto  receive entries and remittances of money  therefor	fromthe residents of Bombay State.	In order to prevent  evasionof the Act and for effectually carrying out its object,	 thelegislature  of Bombay passed Act XXX of 1952 extending	 theprovisions  of	the Act of 1948	 to  competitions  conductedoutside the State of Bombay but operating inside it, the taxhowever being limited to the amounts remitted or due on	 theentries sent from the State of Bombay.	The validity of thisenactment  was	impugned by a number of promoters  of  prizecompetitions in proceedings by way of writ in the High Courtof Bombay, and dealing with the contentions raised by  them,Chagla C.J. and Dixit J. who heard the appeals arising	fromthose  proceedings, held that the competitions	in  questionwere   gambling	 in  character,	 and  that   the   licensingprovisions  were according valid but that the taxes  imposedby  ss.	 12  and 12-A of the Act were really  taxes  on	 thecarrying  on of the business of running prize  competitions,and  were  hit	by Art. 301 of the  Constitution,  and	weretherefore bad. it is938against	 this  decision that Civil Appeal No. 134  of  1956,already referred to, was directed. The  position created by this judgment was that though	 theStates	could regulate the business of running	competitionswithin	their respective borders, to the extent that it	 hadramifications  in  other  States they  could  deal  with  iteffectively  only  by  joint  and  concerted  action   amongthemselves.  That precisely is the situation for which	Art.252(1) provides.  Accordingly, following on the judgment  ofthe Bombay High Court, the States of Andhra, Bombay, Madras,Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Hyderabad, Madhya Bharat, Patiala andEast  Punjab States Union and Saurashtra passed	 resolutionsunder Art. 252(1) of the Constitution authorising Parliamentto  enact  the	requisite legislation for  the	control	 andregulation   of	  prize	 competitions.	 Typical   of	suchresolutions is the one passed by the legislature of  Bombay,which is in these terms:  "  This  Assembly  do resolve that it	 is  desirable	thatcontrol and regulation of -prize puzzle competitions and allother matters consequential and incidental thereto in so faras  these  matters  are concerned  with	 respect  ,to  whichParliament has no power to make laws for the States,  shouldbe regulated by Parliament by law." It was to give effect tothese  resolutions that Parliament passed the Act now  underconsideration,	and that fact is recited in the preamble  tothe Act.Having	 regard	 to  the  circumstances	 under	 which	 theresolutions   came  to	be  passed,  there  cannot  be	 anyreasonable  doubt that the law which the State	legislaturesmoved  Parliament  to  enact under Art. 252(1)	was  one  tocontrol	 and  -regulate	 prize competitions  of	 a  gamblingcharacter.    Competitions   in	  which	  success   dependedsubstantially  on skill could not have been in the minds  ofthe  legislatures  which passed	 those	resolutions.   Thosecompetitions had not been the subject of any controversy  incourt.	 They  had  done  no harm  to  the  public  and	 badpresented  no  problems to the States, and at  no  time	 hadthere been any legislation directed to regulating them.	 Andif  the State legislatures felt that there was any  need  toregulate even those competitions, they could have themselveseffectively done939so  without  resort to the special jurisdiction	 under	Art.252(1).	 It should further be observed that the language  ofthe  resolutions  is that it is desirable  to  control	com-petitions.   If	 it  was  intended  that  Parliament  shouldlegislate  also on competitions involving skill,  the  word,,control'  would seem to be not appropriate.  While  controland  regulation would be requisite in the case of  gambling,mere  regulation  would	 have  been  sufficient	 as  regardscompetitions involving skill.  The use of the word  control'which is to be found not only in the resolution but also  inthe short title and the preamble to the Act appears to us toclearly	 indicate  that	 it was	 only  competitions  of	 thecharacter  dealt  with	in the Bombay  judgment,  that	werewithin the contemplation of the legislature.  Our attention was invited by Mr. Seervai to the  statementof   objects  and  reasons  in	the  Bill  introducing	 theenactment.    It  is  therein  stated  that   the   proposedlegislation  falls under Entry 34 of the State	List,  viz.,"Betting  and gambling".  If we could legitimately  rely  onthis, that would be conclusive against the petitioners.	 ButMr. Palkhiwala contends, and rightly, that the Parliamentaryhistory	 of the enactment is not admissible to construe	 itsmeaning, and Mr. seervai also disclaims any intention on hispart to use the statement of objects and reasons to  explains.   2(d).   We	 must  accordingly  exclude  it	  from	 ourconsideration.	But even apart from it, having regard to thehistory of the legislation, the declared object thereof	 andthe  wording  of  the statute, we are of  opinion  that	 thecompetitions which are sought to be controlled and regulatedby the Act are only those competitions in which success doesnot depend to any substantial degree on skill.  (2)	  Assuming,  however,  that  prize  competitions  asdefined in s. 2(d) include those in which success depends toa  substantial degree on skill as well as those in which  itdoes   not   so	 depend,  the  question	 then	arises	 fordetermination whether ss. 4 and 5 of the Act and rr. 11	 and12 are void not merely in their application to the former-asto  which  there is no dispute-, but also the  latter.	 Mr.Palkhiwala  contends that they are, because, he argues,	 therule as to severability of940statutes can apply only when the impugned legislation is  inexcess	of legislative competence as  regards  subjectmatterand   not  when	 it  is	 in  violation	 of   constitutionalprohibitions,  and further because the	impugned  provisionsare one and indivisible.  On the other hand, Mr. Seervai forthe  respondent contends that the principle of	severabilityis applicable when a statute is partially void for  whateverreason	that might be, and that the impugned provisions	 areseverable and therefore enforceable as against	competitionswhich are of a gambling character.  It is on the correctnessof these contentions that we have to pronounce.  The question whether a statute which is void in part is tobe  treated  as void in toto, or whether it  is	 capable  ofenforcement as to that part which is valid is one which	 canarise only with reference to laws enacted by bodies which donot  possess  unlimited	 powers	 of  legislation,  as,	 forexample,   the	legislatures  in  a  Federal   Union.	 Thelimitation  on their powers may be of two kinds: It  may  bewith  reference	 to the subject-matter on which	 they  couldlegislate,  as,	 for example, the topics enumerated  in	 theLists  in the Seventh Schedule in the  Indian  Constitution,ss. 91 and 92 of the Canadian Constitution, and s. 51 of theAustralian Constitution; or it may be with reference to	 thecharacter  of  the  legislation which they  could  enact  inrespect	 of  subjects assigned to them, as for	example,  inrelation to the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III ofthe  Constitution  and	similar	 constitutionally  protectedrights	in  the American and other  Constitutions.   When  alegislature  whose  authority  is  subject  to	 limitationsaforesaid  enacts  a law which is wholly in  excess  of	 itspowers, it is entirely void and must be completely  ignored.But  where  the legislation falls in part  within  the	areaallotted  to  it and in part outside it, it  is	 undoubtedlyvoid  as to the latter; but does it on that  account  becomenecessarily  void  in  its entirety?   The  answer  to	thisquestion  must	depend	on whether what is  valid  could  beseparated from what is invalid, and that is a question whichhas  to	 be decided by the court on a consideration  of	 theprovisions of the Act.	This is a principle well941established   in  American  Jurisprudence,   Vide   Cooley'sConstitutional Limitations, Vol. 1, Chap.  VII, Crawford  onStatutory Construction, Chap. 16 and Sutherland on StatutoryConstruction,  3rd Edn, Vol. 2, Chap. 24.  It has also	beenapplied	 'by the Privy Council in deciding on the  validity,of laws enacted by the legislatures of Australia and Canada,Vide  Attorney-General for the Commonwealth of Australia  v.Colonial  Sugar Refining Company Limited (1)  and  Attorney-General	 for Alberta v. Attorney-General for Canada(1).	  Itwas  approved  by the Federal Court in In re  Hindu  Women'sRights to Property Act (3 ) and adopted by this Court in TheState  of  Bombay and another v. F. N. Balsara (4)  and	 TheState  of  Bombay  v. The United Motors	 (India)  Ltd.,	 andothers(1).  These decisions are relied on by Mr. Seervai  asbeing decisive in his favour.  Mr. Palkhiwala disputes	thisposition,  and maintains that on the decision of  the  PrivyCouncil	 in Punjab Province v. Daulat Singh and	 others	 (6)and  of	 the decisions of this Court in	 Romesh	 Thappar  v.State  of  Madras(7 ) and Chintaman Rao v. State  of  MadhyaPradesh	 (8), the question must be answered in	his  favour.We must now examine the precise scope of these decisions.  In  In  re Hindu Women's Rights to property Act  (3),	 thequestion arose with reference to the Hindu Women's Rights toProperty  Act XVIII of 1937.  That was an Act passed by	 theCentral	 Legislature,  and had conferred  on  Hindu  widows.certain	 rights over properties which devolved by  intestatesuccession   and   survivorship.   While  the	subject	  ofdevolution  was	 within the competence of the  Centre  underEntry 7 in List III, that was limited to property other thanagricultural land, which was a subject within the, exclusivecompetence of the Provinces under Entry 21 in List 11.	 ActNo.  XVIII of 1937, dealt generally with property,  and	 thecontention raised was that being admittedly incompetent	 andultra  vires as regards agricultural lands, it was  void  inits entirety.(1) [1914] A.C. 237.	  (5) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.(2) L.R. [1947] A.C. 503. (6) [1946] F.C.R. 1.(3) [1941] F.C.R. 12.	 (7) [1950] S.C.R. 594.(4) [1951] S.C.R. 682.	 (8) [1950] S.C.R. 759.121942It   was  held	by  the	 Federal  Court	 that  the   CentralLegislature  must, on the principle laid down in Macleod  v.Attorney-General  for New, South Wales (1), be	presumed  tohave  known  its own limitations and must  be held  to	haveintended  to  enact only laws within  its  competence,	thataccordingly  the word I property' in Act No. XVIII  of	1937must be construed as property other than agricultural  land,and  that,  in that view, the legislation was  wholly  intravires.	It is contended by Mr. Palkhiwala that this decisiondoes not proceed on the basis that the Act is in part  ultravires  and  that the remainder however	could  be  separatedtherefrom,  but	 on  the  footing that the  Act	 is  in	 itsentirety  intra	 vires,	 and  that  thus,  no  question	  ofseverability  was  decided.   That is  true;  but  that	 theprinciple  of  severability had the approval of	 that  Courtclearly	 appears  from	the following  observations  of	 SirMaurice Gwyer C. J.:  "It  should  not  however be thought that  the  Court	 hasoverlooked  cases cited to it in which the same	 words	havebeen applied in an Act to a number of purposes, some  withinand some without the power of the Legislature, and the wholeAct  hag  been	held  to be  bad.   If	the  restriction  ofthegeneral  words  to  purposes	 within	 the  power  of	 theLegislature would be to leave an Act with nothing or next tonothing	 in it, or an Act different in kind, and not  merelyin degree, from an Act in which the general words were giventhe wider meaning, then it is plain that the Act as a  wholemust  be 'held invalid, because in such circumstances it  isimpossible   to	  assert  with	any  confidence	  that	 theLegislature intended the general words which it has used  tobe construed only in the narrower sense.  If the Act -is  tobe upheld, it' must remain, even when a narrower meaning  isgiven  to  the	general words,	an Act	which  is  complete,intelligible and valid and which can be executed by itself;'Wynes:	Legislative and Executive Powers in,  Australia,  p.51, citing Presser v. Illinois (2).  "  There	 is  nothing in these observations to.	support	 thecontention   of	 the  petitioners  that	 the   doctrine	  ofseverability applies only when the legislation is in(1) [1891] A.C. 455.	(2) (1886) 116 U.S. 252.943excess	of  the	 competence of	the  legislature  quoad	 itssubject-matter,	   and	 not   when   it   infringes	someconstitutional prohibitions.  In The State of Bombay and another v. F. N. Balsara(1) thequestion  was as to the validity of the	 Bombay	 ProhibitionAct.  Sections 12 and 13 of the Act imposed restrictions  onthe  possession, consumption and sale of liquor,  which	 hadbeen  defined  in  s. 2(24) of the Act as  including  "	 (a)spirits	 of wine, methylated spirits, wine, beer, toddy	 andall liquids consisting of or containing alcohol, and (b) anyother intoxicating substance which the Provincial Governmentmay, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare to  beliquor for the purposes of this Act ". Certain medicinal andtoilet preparations had been declared liquor by notificationissued	by the Government under s. 2(24) (b).  The  Act	 wasattacked  in  its  entirety  as	 violative  of	the   rightsprotected  by Art. 19(1) (f) ; but this Court held that	 theimpugned provisions were unreasonable and therefore void  inso far as medicinal and toilet preparations were  concerned,but  valid as to the rest.  Then, the contention was  raisedthat " as the law purports to authorise the imposition of  arestriction  on a fundamental right in language wide  enoughto cover restrictions both within and without the limits  ofconstitutionally  permissible legislative  action  affectingsuch right, it is not possible to uphold it even so -far  asit may be applied within the constitutional limits, as it isnot  severable	". In rejecting this contention,  the  Courtobserved (at pp. 717-718):  "  These  items  being  thus	treated	 separately  by	 thelegislature  itself  and being severable, and it  not  beingcontended,  in	view of the directive  principles  of  Statepolicy regarding prohibition, that the restrictions  imposedupon  the right to possess or sell or buy or consume or	 usethose	categories  of	properties  are	 unreasonable,	 theimpugned  sections  must  be  held valid  so  far  as  thesecategories are concerned."   This	 decision is clear authority that the  principle  ofseverability is applicable even when the partial(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 682.944invalidity of the Act arises by reason of its  contraventionof  constitutional  limitations.   It  is  argued  for	 thepetitioners  that in that case the legislature	had  throughthe rules framed under the statute classified medicinal	 andtoilet	preparations  as a separate category, and  had	thusevinced	 an  intention to treat them as severable,  that  nosimilar classification had been made in the present Act, andthat  therefore the decision in question does not  help	 therespondent.   But this is to take too narrow a view  of	 thedecision.   The	 doctrine  of severability  rests,  as	willpresently   be	shown,	on  a  presumed	 intention  of	 thelegislature  that  if a part of a statute turns	 out  to  bevoid, that should not affect the validity of the rest of it,and that that intention is to be ascertained from the  termsof the statute.	 It is the true nature of the subject-matterof the legislation that is the determining factor, and whilea classification made in the statute might go far to supporta  conclusion in favour of severability, the absence  of  itdoes not necessarily preclude it.  It is a feature usual  inlatterday legislation in America to enact a clause that	 theinvalidity of any part of the law shall -not render the restof  it	void,  and  it has been	 held  that  such  a  clausefurnishes  only prima facie evidence of severability,  whichmust in the last resort be decided on an examination of	 theprovisions  of the statute.  In discussing the effect  of  aseverability clause, Brandies J. observed in Dorchy v. Stateof  Kansas  (1) that it "provides, a rule  of  construction,which may sometimes aid in determining that intent.  But  itis an aid merely; not an inexorable command".  The weight tobe  attached  to a classification of subjects  made  in	 thestatute itself cannot, in our opinion, be greater than	thatof  a severability clause.  If the decision in The State  ofBombay	and another v. F. N. Balsara(2) is examined  in	 thelight  of the above discussion, it will be seen	 that  whilethere  is  a  reference in the judgment	 to  the  fact	thatMedicinal and toilet preparations are treated separately  bythe legislature, that is followed by an independent  findingthat they are severable.  In other words, the decision as toseverability was reached on(1) [1924] 264 U.S. 286; 68 L. Ed. 686, 690.(2) [1951] S.C.R. 682.945the  separability in fact of the subjects dealt with by	 thelegislation  and the classification made in the rule  merelyfurnished support to it.  Then, there are the observations of Patanjali Sastri	C.J.in The State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd.(1).Dealing	 with  the  contention that a  law  authorising	 theimposition  of a tax on sales must be declared to be  whollyvoid   because	 it  was  bad  in  part	  as   transgressingconstitutional	limits, the learned Chief  Justice  observed(at p. 1099):  "It  is  a sound rule to extend  severability	 to  includeseparability  in  enforcement in such cases, and we  are  ofopinion that the principle should be applied in dealing withtaxing statutes in this country.  " The  petitioners contend that the rule of  severability  inenforcement  laid  down in the above passage  following	 thedecision  in  Bowman v. Continental Co.(2)  is	confined  inAmerican  law to taxing statutes, that it is really  in	 thenature	of an exception to the rule against severability  oflaws  which are partially unconstitutional, and that it	 hasno  application	 to the present statute.  We are  unable  tofind   any   basis  for	 this  argument	 in   the   Americanauthorities.   That  the  decision in  Bowman's	 case  (2  )related	 to a taxing statute is no ground for  limiting	 theprinciple  enunciated  therein to taxing statutes.   On	 theother hand, the discussion of the law as to severability  inthe  authoritative text-books shows that no  distinction  ismade  in American Jurisprudence between taxing statutes	 andother  statutes.   Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol.	82,  dealingwith   the  subject  of	 severability,	states	 first	 theprinciples  applicable	generally and to all  statutes,	 andthen proceeds to consider those principles with reference todifferent  topics,  and	 taxation laws	form  one  of  thosetopics.  We  have now to consider the decisions in Punjab  Provincev.  Daulat Singh and others (3), Romesh Thappar v. State  ofMadras (4) and chintaman Rao v. State of Madhya Pradesh	 (5)relied on by the petitioners.  In Punjab Province v.  DaulatSingh and others (3), the(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1069 at 1098-99.  (3) [1946] F.C.R. 1.(2)  [1921]  256  U.S. 642 ; 65 L. Ed.	 II37.	 (4)  [1950]S.C.R. 594.(5)[1950] S.C.R. 759.946challenge  was	on  the validity of s. 13A  which  had	beenintroduced  into the Punjab Alienation of Land Act  XIII  of1900  by an Amendment Act X of 1938.  That  section  enactedthat  an alienation of land by a member of  an	agriculturaltribe  in  Punjab in favour of another member of  the  tribemade  either  before  or  after	 the  commencement  of	 theamendment  Act	was  void for all purposes,  when  the	realbeneficiary  under the transaction was not a member  of	 thetribe.	 Section  4  of	 the Act  had  empowered  the  localGovernment to determine by notification the body or group ofpersons who are to be declared to be agricultural tribes forthe purpose of the Act.	 A notification dated April 18, 1904issued under that section provided that,"  In each district of the Punjab mentioned in column  I  ofthe  Schedule  attached to this	 notification,	all  personseither holding land or ordinarily residing in such  districtand  belonging to any one of the tribes	 mentioned  oppositethe  name of such district, in column 2, shall be deemed  tobe an 'agricultural tribe' within the district". The question was whether s. 13A was void as contravening s.298(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, which  providedinter alia that no subject of His Majesty domiciled in Indiashall  on  grounds  only  of  descent  be  prohibited	fromacquiring, holding or disposing of property.  It was held bythe  Federal  Court that s. 13A was void  as  infringing  s.298(1) to the extent that it prohibited alienation on groundof descent, but that it was valid in so far as it related toa  prohibition of the transaction in favour of a person	 whobelonged  to the tribe but did not hold land  or  ordinarilyreside in the district, as a prohibition on that ground	 wasnot within s. 298(1) and that accordingly an enquiry  shouldbe  made as to the validity of the impugned alienation	withreference to the qualifications of the alienee. (Vide PunjabProvince v. Daulat Singh (1). Before	 the  Privy  Council, Mr.  Privy,  counsel  for	 theappellant,  "  conceded	 that  membership  of  a  tribe	 wasgenerally a question of descent ", and the Board accordinglyheld that s. 13A wag repugnant to a. 298(1) (1) [1942] F.C. R. 67.947and  was  void.	  Dealing next with the	 enquiry  which	 wasdirected  by the Federal Court as to the  qualifications  ofthe  alienee, the Privy Council observed as follows  (at  p.20):" The majority of the Federal Court appear have contemplatedanother form of severability namely, by a classification  ofthe particular cases or which the impugned Act may happen tooperate, involving an inquiry into the circumstances of eachindividual  case.  There are no words in the Act capable  ofbeing  so  construed,  and such a  course  would  in  effectinvolve	 an amendment of the Act by the court, course  whichis beyond the competency of the court, as has long been wellestablished."  It  will be noticed that, in the above case, there was  noquestion  of  the  application	of  the	 Act  to   differentcategories which were distinct and severable either in	factor under the provisions of the Act.  The notification issuedunder  s. 4 on which the judgment of the Federal  Court	 wasbased  did  not classify those who did' not  belong  to	 thetribe  and those who did not hold property or reside in	 thedistrict  as  two distinct groups.  It	described  only	 onecategory,  and that had to satisfy both the conditions.	  Tobreak  up that category into two 'distinct groups was to  goagainst	 the  express  language	 of  the  enactment  and  tosubstitute  the	 word " for "and".  The Privy  Council	heldthat  that could not be done, and it also observed that	 theseverability  contemplated  in the judgment of	the  FederalCourt  was  an	ad  hoc	 determination	with  reference	  toqualifications	of  each  alienee as  distinguished  from  adistinct  category  with reference  to	the  subject-matter.This  is  not  an authority for the  position  that  if	 thesubject-matter	of what is valid is severable from  that  ofwhat  is  invalid,  even then, the Act must be	held  to  bewholly	 void.	 More  to  the	point  are   the   followingobservations  (at  pp. 19-20) on a question which  was	alsoraised	in  that  case	whether s.  13A	 which	avoided	 thealienations made both before and after the Act, having	beenheld to be void in so far as it was retrospective, was	voidin toto:"....If	 the retrospective element were not  severable	fromthe rest of the provisions, it is established beyond948controversy  that  the whole Act would have to	be  declaredultra  vires  and  void.  But,	happily,  the  retrospectiveelement	 in the impugned Act is easily Severable and by	 thedeletion of the words 'either before or' from the early partof  sub-s.  (1) of the new 3. 13A, enacted by s.  5  of	 theimpugned  Act, the rest ,if the provisions of  the  impugnedAct may be left to operate validly."  Discussing  this  decision in The State of Bombay  v.	 TheUnited	 Motors	 (India)  Ltd.(1),  Patanjali  Sastri	C.J.observed (at p. 1098):  " The subject of the constitutional prohibition was singleand indivisible, namely, disposition of property on  groundsonly  of (among other things) descent and if, in its  actualoperation, the impugned statute was found to transgress	 theconstitutional mandate, the whole Act had to be held void asthe  words  used  covered  both	 what  was  constitutionallypermissible and what was not." That  is  to say, the notification issued under  s.  4	 wassingle and indivisible, and therefore it was not  severable.Agreeing  with	this  opinion, we are of  opinion  that	 thedecision  in Punjab Province v. Daulat Singh(2)	 cannot,  inview of the decision of this Court in The State of Bombay v.P. N. Balsara (3), be accepted as authority for the positionthat  there could be no severability, even if  the  subject-matters are, in fact, distinct and severable.  In Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras (4), the question wasas  to the validity of s. 9 (1-A) of the Madras	 Maintenanceof Public Order Act XXIII of 1949.  That section  authorisedthe   Provincial  Government  to  prohibit  the	 entry	 andcirculation within the State of a newspaper "for the purposeof  securing the public safety or the maintenance of  publicorder".	  Subsequent to the enactment of this  statute,	 theConstitution  came  into  force, and  the  validity  of	 theimpugned  provision depended on whether it was protected  byArt.  19(2)  which  saved " existing law in  so	 far  as  itrelates to any matter which undermines the security(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.		 (3) [1951] S.C.R. 682.(2) [1946] F.C.R. 1.		 (4) [1950] S.C.R. 594.949of  or	tends to overthrow the State." It was held  by	thisCourt  that  as the purposes mentioned in s. 9(1-A)  of	 theMadras	Act were wider in amplitude than those specified  inArt. 19(2), and as it was not possible to split up s. 9(1-A)into what was within and what was without the protection  ofArt.  19(2), the provision must fail in its entirety.	Thatis really a decision that the impugned provision was on	 itsown  contents inseverable.  It is not an authority  for	 theposition that even when a provision is severable, it must bestruck down on the ground that the principle of severabilityis  inadmissible when the invalidity of a statute arises  byreason of its contravening constitutional prohibitions.	  Itshould	be mentioned that the decision in Romesh Thappar  v.State  of Madras (1) was referred to in The State of  Bombayv. F. N. Balsara (2 ) and The State of Bombay v. The  UnitedMotors (India) Ltd. (3) and distinguished.In  Chintaman  Rao  v.	State of  Madhya  Pradesh  (4),	 thequestion related to the constitutionality of s. 4(2) of	 theCentral	 Provinces and Berar Regulation of Manufacturers  ofBidis  (Agricultural Purposes) Act No. LXIV of	1948,  whichprovided  that, " No person residing in a village  specifiedin  such order shall during the agricultural  season  engagehimself	 in  the manufacture of bidis, and  no	manufacturershall  during  the  said season employ any  person  for	 themanufacture   of   bidis  ".  This  Court  held	  that	 therestrictions  imposed by s. 4(2) were in excess of what	 wasrequisite for achieving the purpose of the Act, which was  "to  provide measures for the supply of adequate	 labour	 foragricultural  purposes in bidi manufacturing areas  ",	thatthat  purpose  could  have been	 achieved  by  limiting	 therestrictions  to agricultural labour and to  defined  hours,and  that, as it stood, the impugned provision could not  beupheld	as a reasonable restriction within Art.	 19(1)	(g).Dealing	 next with the question of severability,  the  Courtobserved (at p. 765) that,  "  The  law even to the extent that it could	be  said  toauthorise the imposition of restrictions in regard to(1)  [1950] S.C.R. 594.	       (3)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.(2)  [1951] S.C.R. 682.	       (4) [1950] S.C.R. 759.  1222950agricultural  labour  cannot  be  held	valid  because	 thelanguage employed is wide enough to cover restrictions	bothwithin	 and   without	the   limits   of   constitutionallypermissible legislative action affecting the right."Now,  it  should be noted that the  impugned  provision,  a.4(2), is by its very nature inseverable, and it could not beenforced  without re-writing it.  The observation  aforesaidmust  be  read in the context of  the  particular  provisionwhich was under consideration.	This really is nothing	morethan  a	 decision  on the  severability	 of  the  particularprovision which was impugned therein, and it is open to	 thesame  comment as the decision in Romesh Thappar v. State  ofMadras	 (1).	 That  was  also  one	of   the   decisionsdistinguished in The, State, of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara (2).The resulting position may thus be stated: When a statute isin  part void, it will be enforced as regards the  rest,  ifthat  is severable from what is invalid.  It  is  immaterialfor  the purpose of this rule whether the invalidity of	 thestatute arises by reason of its subject-matter being outsidethe  competence	 of  the legislature or	 by  reason  of	 itsprovisions contravening constitutional prohibitions.That  being  the  position in law, it is  now  necessary  toconsider  whether the impugned provisions are  severable  intheir  application to competitions of a gambling  character,assuming   of  course  that  the  definition  of   1   prizecompetition'  in  s.  2(d) is wide enough  to  include	alsocompetitions  involving	 skill to a substantial	 degree,  Itwill  be  useful for the determination of this	question  torefer  to  certain rules of construction laid  down  by	 theAmerican Courts, where the question of severability has beenthe subject of consideration in numerous authorities.	Theymay be summarised as follows: 1.In  determining whether the valid parts of a statute	 areseparable  from	 the  invalid  parts  thereof,	it  is	 theintention of the legislature that is the determining factor.The test to be applied is whether the legislature would haveenacted the valid part if it had known that the rest of	 thestatute	 was invalid.  Vide Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol.	 82,p.  156; Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Vol.  2,	 pp.176-177.(1) [1950] S.C.R. 594.	      (2) [1951] S.C.R. 682.951   2.If the valid and invalid provisions are so inextricablymixed  up  that they cannot be separated from  one  another,then  the  invalidity  of  a  portion  must  result  in	 theinvalidity  of the Act in its entirety.	 On the other  hand,if they are so distinct and separate that after striking outwhat  is invalid, what remains is in itself a complete	codeindependent   of   the	rest,  then  it	  will	 be   upheldnotwithstanding	 that  the rest	 has  become  unenforceable.Vide  Cooley's	Constitutional Limitations, Vol.  1  at	 pp.360-361; Crawford on Statutory Construction, pp. 217-218.  3.Even  when the provisions which are valid  are  distinctand separate from those which are invalid, if they all	formpart of a single scheme which is intended to be operative asa  whole, then also the invalidity of a part will result  inthe  failure  of  the whole.   Vide  Crawford  on  StatutoryConstruction, pp. 218-219.   4.Likewise, when the valid and invalid parts of a statuteare independent and do not form part of a scheme but what isleft  after  omitting  the invalid portion is  so  thin	 andtruncated  as to be in substance different from what it	 waswhen it emerged out of the legislature, then also it will berejected in its entirety.  5.The separability of the valid and invalid provisions  ofa  statute does not depend on whether the law is enacted  inthe  same  section  or different  sections;  (Vide  Cooley'sConstitutional Limitations, Vol. 1, pp. 361-362); it is	 notthe form, but the substance of the matter that is  material,and that has to be ascertained on an examination of the	 Actas  a  whole and of the setting of the	relevant  provisionstherein.  6.If	after  the  invalid portion  is	 expunged  from	 thestatute	 what  remains	cannot be  enforced  without  makingalterations and modifications therein, then the whole of  itmust be struck down as void, as otherwise it will amount  tojudicial   legislation.	   Vide	 Sutherland   on   StatutoryConstruction, Vol. 2, p. 194.  7.In determining the legislative intent on the question ofseparability, it will be legitimate to take into account thehistory of the legislation, its object,952the  title  and the preamble to it.   Vide.   Sutherland  onStatutory Construction, Vol. 2, pp. 177-178.  Applying these principles to the present Act, it will	 notbe questioned that competitions in which success depends  toa  substantial extent on skill and competitions in which  itdoes   not  so	depend,	 form  two  distinct  and   separatecategories.   The  difference  between the  two	 classes  ofcompetitions is as clear-cut as that between commercial	 andwagering contracts.  On the facts, there might be difficultyin  deciding  whether a given competition falls	 within	 onecategory or not ; but when its true character is determined,it  must  fall	either	under the one  or  the	other.	 Thedistinction between the two classes of competitions has longbeen  recognised  in the legislative practice  of  both	 theUnited	Kingdom and this country, and the courts have,	timeand  again,  pointed out the characteristic  features  whichdifferentiate them.  And if we are now to ask ourselves	 thequestion, would Parliament have enacted the law in  questionif  it had known that it would fail as regards	competitionsinvolving skill, there can be no doubt, having regard to thehistory of the legislation, as to what our answer would	 be.Nor	does	the    restriction    of    the	    impugnedprovisions  to competitions of a gambling  character  affecteither	the  texture or the colour of the Act;	nor  do	 theprovisions require to be touched and re-written before	theycould be applied to them.  They will squarely apply to	themon their own terms and in their true spirit, and form a codecomplete  in themselves with reference to the subject.	 Theconclusion  is	therefore  inescapable	that  the   impugnedprovisions,  assuming  that  they apply by  virtue  -of	 thedefinition  in	s. 2(d) to all kinds  of  competitions,	 areseverable  in  their application to  competitions  in  whichsuccess does not depend to any substantial extent on skill.  In the result, both the contentions must be found  againstthe petitioners, and these petitions must be dismissed	withcosts.	There will be only one set of counsel's fee.		     Petitions dismissed.953