PETITIONER:V.C. K. BUS SERVICE LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE REGIONAL TRANSPORT AUTHORITY, COIMBATOREDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/02/1957BENCH:ACT:Road  Transport-Permit for stage carriage-Rerewal-Whether  acontinuation  of  the  original	 Permit-Whether	 subject  toimplied	 condition of validity of the original	Permit-MotorVehicles Act, 1939 (IV Of 1939), ss. 57, 58.HEADNOTE:The appellant was granted a permit for stage carriage by theRegional  Transport  Authority under the provisions  of	 theMotor  Vehicles	 Act, 1939, but on appeal to  the  appellateauthority,   the   Central  Road  Traffic  Board,   by	 theunsuccessful  applicants the order granting the	 permit	 wasset  aside and the order of the Central Road  Traffic  Boardwas approved by the Government in revision.  The  appellant,thereupon, moved the High Court for a writ of certiorari  toquash the proceedings of the Central Road Traffic Board	 andthe  Goverment.	  During the pendency of  these	 proceedingsthere was a stay of operation of the order setting aside thegrant  of the permit to the Appellant, with the result	thatbe   continued	 to  run  his  buses   notwithstanding	 thecancellation of his permit.  Before the expiry of the periodfixed in the original664permit, he applied for and got a renewal of the permit	fromthe  Regional  Transport Authority under s. 58 of  the	Act.The High  Court finally dismissed the application for a writof certiorari and 'the question arose as to the validity  ofthe  renewal  of  the permit in view  of  the  High  Court'sdecision.  The matter was raised before the High Court	onceagain by proceedings under Art. 226 of the Constitution	 andthe High Court held that the renewal having been obtained onthe basis of a permit which had been subsequently cancelled,it  could not be regarded as a fresh permit, that  when	 theoriginal  permit was set aside, it must be taken to  be	 nonest for all purposes, and I that the renewal must  thereforebe  held  to be a nullity.  The appellant  appealed  to	 theSupreme Court.Held:(1)  Under	 the provisions of the Motor  Vehicles	Act,1949  and  the	rules  framed thereunder,  a  renewal  is  acontinuation  of  the original permit.	 When  the  originalpermit was renewed in favour of the appellant it was subjectto  the decision of the High Court in the proceedings  underArt.  226 of the Constitution which were then  pending	and,therefore, when the order granting the original permit	 wasfin ally set aside the renewed permit became void.Anjiah	v. Regional Transport Officer, Guntur,	1956  AndhraLaw Times, 347, disapproved.(2)When	 the appellant applied for a renewal of	 his  permitunder s. 58 of the Act and not merely for a fresh permit theorder  of  the	Regional Transport  Authority  granting	 therenewal	 must  be  held to have been  made  subject  to	 theimplied	 condition  that the right of the appellant  to	 theoriginal  permit  is recognized by the High Court  and	thataccordingly,  in  the event that had happened,	the  renewedpermit ceased to, be effective.,.Veerappa  Pillai v. Raman & Raman Ltd., (1952)	S.C.R.	583,explained and distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals No&323 and	 324of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and orders dated April 27, and July13,  1956, of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeals Nos.  42and 88 of 1956 arising out of the orders dated March 23, andJuly 9, 1956, of the said High Court in Writ Petitions	Nos.333 and 564 of 1956.A.   V.	 Viswanatha Sastri, J. B. Dadachanji, S.  N.  Andleyand Rameshwar Nath, for the appellant.Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of India,, R. Gan.	 pathy	Iyerand R. Gopalkrishnan, for respondents Nos. 3 and 4.6651957.  February 19.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AYYAR J.-These are appeals against the  judgmentof  the	 High Court of Madras on a certificate	given  underArt.  133  (1)	(c) of the Constitution, and  they  raise  aquestion  of some importance as to the true legal  characterof  a permit when it is renewed under the provisions of	 theMotor  Vehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 1939) hereinafter  referredto as the Act.In order to appreciate the contentions of the parties, it isnecessary  to  state the material facts leading	 up  to	 thepresent	 dispute.  Towards the end of 1952, the	 appropriateauthorities  under the Act decided to grant  two  additionalpermits	 for stage carriages in	 the  Ondipudur-AgriculturalCollege	 route	in the town of Coimbatore in  the  State  ofMadras,,  and invited applications therefor under s.  57  ofthe  Act.  There were as many as 39 applicants, and  by	 hisorder  dated  December	3,  1952,  the	Regional   TransportAuthority  granted  one	 permit to  applicant  No.  24,	 theThondamuthur Trading Company Ltd., and another to  applicantNo. 30, the V.C.K. Bus Service.	 There were appeals by	someof  the unsuccessful applicants to the Central Road  TrafficBoard, which by its order dated February 19, 1953, set asidethe  order of the Regional Transport Authority	and  grantedthe  permits, one to Stanes Transports Ltd., and another  toThirumalaiswami	 Goundar.  Revisions were preferred  againstthis order by the aggrieved applicants under s. 64-A of	 theAct,  and  by its order dated July 9, 1953,  the  Governmentconfirmed  the	grant  of the permit  to  Stanes  Transports,Ltd.,	but  set aside the permit given	 to  ThirumalaiswamiGoundar,  and granted it instead to Annamalai Bus  TransportLtd. Thereupon,  applicants Nos. 24 and 30 moved the High  Courtof  Madras under Aft. 226 for a writ of certiorari to  quashthe  order of the Central Road Traffic Board dated  February19,  1953 and of the Government dated July 9, 1953; but	 theapplications  were  dismissed by Rajagopala Ayyangar  J.  onMarch  8,  1954.   Against the	orders	of  dismissal,	WritAppeals Nos. 31 and 32 of 1954 were preferred, and they were666dismissed  by Rajamannar C. J. and Panchapakesa Ayyar J.  onMarch  21, 1956.  It should be mentioned that the  operationof 'the order dated February 19, 1953 was stayed pending thedisposal  of  the  revision  under  s.	64-A  and  the	writproceedings  in	 the High Court, with the result  that	bothThondamuthur  Trading  Company Ltd. and V.C.K.	Bus  Servicewhich  had  been granted permits by the	 Regional  TransportAuthority on December 3, 1952, continued to run their  busesnotwithstanding	 cancellation of those permits	on  February19, 1953.  It should also be mentioned that in June 1954 thebusiness of the V.C.K. Bus Service which was the grantee  ofone of the permits under the order of the Regional TransportAuthority  dated  December  3, 1952, was  taken	 over  by  aCompany	 called	 the V.C.K. Bus Service Ltd., which  is	 theappellant  before  us,	and  by an  order  of  the  RegionalTransport Authority dated July 7, 1954, it was recognised asthe transferee of the permit granted to V.C.K. Bus Service.To continue the narrative, the permit which was the subject-matter	of the litigation aforesaid was for a period of	 oneyear  and a half, and it expired on June 30,  1954.   Beforeits  expiry, the appellant applied on April 15, 1954, for  arenewal	  thereof  for	a  period  of  three  years.	Thisapplication was duly notified under s.57, and objections  tothe grant were preferred by both Stanes Transports Ltd., andAnnamalai  Bus	Transport Ltd.	On September  5,  1954,	 theRegional  Transport  Authority	granted	 a  permit  to	 theappellant for a period of one year from July 1, 1954 to June30,  1955,  obviously in the expectation that  Writ  AppealsNos. 31 and 32 of 1954 would by then have been decided.	  OnMarch 19, 1955,the appellant again applied for a renewal  ofthe  permit, and that was also notified under s. 57, and  noobjections  having  been  filed to the	grant  thereof,	 theRegional  Transport  Authority by his order dated  June	 23,1955,  renewed the permit for a period of three	 years	fromJuly 1, 1955 to June 30, 1958.	It is this permit that formsthe subject-matter of the present litigation.It has been already stated that Writ Appeals Nos. 31 and  32of 1954 were dismissed on March 21, 1956.667Apprehending that the Regional Transport Authority might, inview  of the judgment of the High Court, cancel	 the  permitwhich was renewed on June 23, 1955, the appellant filed WritPetition  No.  333  of	1956  for  a  Writ  of	 Prohibitionrestraining the Regional Transport Authority from Cancellingthe permit, and that was dismissed by Rajagopala Ayyangar J.on  the ground that when the original permit was set  aside,the renewal thereof fell to the ground.	 The appellant filedWrit Appeal No. 42 of 1956 against this order, and that	 washeard  by Rajamannar C. J. and Panchapakesa Ayyar J. who  bytheir  judgment	 dated	April 27, 1956,	 held,	following  aprevious  decision  of	that Court in  K.  Muthuvadivelu  v.Regional  Transport Officer(1) that the renewal having	beenobtained   on  the  basis  of  a  permit  which	  had	beensubsequently cancelled, it could not be regarded as a  freshpermit, that when the original permit was set aside, it mustbe  taken  to  be non est for all  purposes,  and  that	 therenewal	 must  therefore be held to be a  nullity.   In	 theresult, they dismissed the appeal, but granted a certificateunder Art. 133(1)(c), observing that the case raised a pointof  general  importance, which was stated by them  in  theseterms:When  an  application for renewal of a permit  is  made	 andgranted	 and eventually it is held that the original  permitwas itself wrongly granted, does the renewed permit  subsistfor  the  period  for  which it	 was  renewed,	or  does  itautomatically  cease  to  be in force  when  it	 is  finallydecided that the original permit was not granted validly ?This  matter now comes before us in Civil Appeal No, 323  of1956.After  the High Court delivered its judgment in Writ  AppealNo.  42 of 1956 on April 27, 1956, the	respondents  herein,viz.,  Stanes Transports Ltd., and Annamalai  Bus  TransportLtd.,  applied to the Regional Transport Authority to  grantthem  permits in accordance with the decisions of  the	HighCourt, and on May 5, 1956, the Regional Transport  Authoritycancelled  the	permit granted by him on June 23,  1955,  infavour(1)  A.I.R. 1956 Mad. 143.86668of  the	 appellant,  and  granted  permits  instead  to	 therespondents.   Thereupon, the appellant filed Writ  PetitionNo. 554 of 1956 for a writ of certiorari to quash the  orderdated May 5, 1956, on the grounds which had been put forwardin  Writ Petition No. 333 of 1956 and Writ Appeal No. 42  of1956.  That petition was dismissed by Rajagopalan J. on July9,  1956, and the Writ Appeal No. 88 of 1956  filed  againstthat  order was dismissed by Rajamannar C. J. and  Panchapa-kesa  Ayyar  J. on July 13, 1956.  Leave to  appeal  againstthat judgment was also given under Art. 133 (1) (c), as	 thesubject-matter	thereof was the same as that of Writ  AppealNo.  42 of 1956 in respect of which leave had  already	beengranted.   Civil  Appeal No. 324, of 1956  relates  to	thismatter.	  Thus, both the appeals relate to the same  matter,and raise the same point for determination.Mr. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, learned counsel who appeared insupport of the appeals, contends that the view taken by	 thelearned	 Judges of the High Court that when a permit is	 setaside by higher authorities, it should be treated as  whollynon-existent,  and that, in consequence, a  renewal  thereofmust  be  held to be void, is not sound, that on  a  correctinterpretation of ss. 57 and 58, a renewal is practically inthe nature of a new grant, that the permit which was grantedto  the	 appellant for the period July 1, 1955 to  June	 30,1958,  though  styled a renewal, was in	 substance  a  freshpermit, and that the fact that the old permit was set  asidedid  not therefore affect the rights of the appellant  underthis  permit.	He also argues that the Act  and  the  rulesframed thereunder contain elaborate provisions as to when  apermit could be cancelled, forming in themselves a  completecode  on the subject, that the cancellation of the  originalpermit	is not one of the grounds on which a renewed  permitcould  be  set	aside, and that the order  of  the  RegionalTransport  Authority dated May 5, 1956, was therefore  ultravires.	The contention of the learned Solicitor-General	 forthe.  respondents  is  that when a permit  is  renewed,	 therenewal is, on a true construction of the provisions of	 theAct, in substance as in name a continuation of the669previous  permit, and that, in consequence, when the,  grantof a permit is set aside by a higher authority, the  renewalthereof	 must also stand automatically set aside,  and	thatfurther even if a renewed permit is not to be regarded as  acontinuation  of  the original permit,, seeing	that  it  isgranted on the basis of that permit it should be held to  besubject	 to  an	 implied term that it should  cease  if	 theoriginal permit is cancelled.  The two points that arise fordecision  on  these contentions are: (1) when  a  permit  isrenewed, is it a continuation of the original permit, or  isit, in fact, a new one? and (2) if a renewed permit is not acontinuation  of  the original permit, is the  grant  of  itsubject	 to  the implied condition that it is liable  to  becancelled, if the original permit is cancelled ?On  the first question, it is necessary to refer to  certainprovisions   of	 the  Act  material   thereto.	  Section,57prescribes  the	 procedure to be followed in  the  grant  ofstage  carriage	 permits.  Under  sub-s.  (2),	applicationstherefor have to be made not less than six weeks before	 thedate appointed by the Regional Transport Authority therefor.Sub-section  (3) requires that they should be: published  inthe   prescribed   manner,  and	 provision   is	  made	 forrepresentations	 being made in connection  therewith.	Whenany representation is so received, sub-s. (5) provides	thatthe person making it is to be given an. opportunity of beingheard	thereon	  in  person  or  by  a,   duly	  authorisedrepresentative, and that the application for permit is to bedisposed  of  at a public hearing.  Section  58	 deals	withrenewals, and is as follows:(1)  "	A permit other than a temporary permit issued  undersection	 62  shall  be effective without  renewal  for	suchperiod,	 not  less than three years and not more  than	fiveyears,	as  the	 Regional Transport  Authority	may  in	 itsdiscretion specify in the permit:Provided  that	in the case of a permit	 issued	 or  renewedwithin two years of the commencement of this Act, the permitshall  be effective without renewal for such period of	lessthan three years as the Provincial Government may prescribe.670(2)  A	permit	may be renewed on an  application  made	 anddisposed of as if it were an application for a permit:Provided that, other conditions being equal, an	 applicationfor renewal shall be given preference over new	applicationsfor permits.  "The  contention	 of the learned counsel	 for  the  appellantbased on s. 58 (2) is that under the Act an application	 forrenewal is to be dealt with exactly as an application for  anew  permit,  that  it is to be notified  under	 s.  57	 andrepresentations have to be called for in connection herewithand considered at a public hearing, that though the grant ofthe previous permit furnishes a ground of preference, it  issubject	 to  the limitation that the  other  conditions	 areequal  and is thus only one of several factors to  be  takeninto account, and that therefore when a renewal is  actuallygranted, it is on an independent consideration of the meritsand  it cannot be distinguished from a fresh grant.  It	 wasfurther	 argued that the proviso to s. 58(2)  meant  little,because	 it was well established that the grant of a  permitwas not a matter of right, and the authorities under the Actwould  be  acting  within their powers if  they	 refused  anapplication for renewal and granted a fresh permit to a	 newapplicant.   It was also contended that though	the  statutespoke  of  a renewal of a permit, that	expression  did	 notaccurately  bring  out the true position, because  in  legalterminology,  renewal imports that the transaction which  isrenewed,  as  for  example, a lease, is	 to  operate  for  afurther period but on the same terms, but that when a permitwas  renewed, it was open to the authorities to	 impose	 newconditions,  to	 alter	the period during which	 it  was  tooperate	 and  generally	 to  modify  its  terms,  and	thattherefore the use of the word ,renewal " should not lead  tothe.  inference	 that it was the original  permit  that	 wasbeing continued.There  is  force in these contentions, but there  are  otherprovisions  bearing  on	 this question, and  when  they	 arereviewed  as  a	 whole,	 it is	abundantly  clear  that	 theintention  of  the legislature was to treat a renewal  as  acontinuation of the previous permit.  To671start with, s. 58(1) enacts that a permit shall be effectivefor  the period specified therein, but this is qualified  bythe  words " without renewal ". Therefore, when there  is  arenewal,  the  effective period is not the  original  periodspecified,  but	 the  period  up to  which  the	 renewal  isgranted.   That indicates that the life of a renewed  permitis  one and continuous.	 The matter is placed  beyond  doubtwhen  we turn to the rules which have been framed under	 theAct.  Rule 184 (1) provides that when a renewal is  granted,it shall be endorsed on the permit itself, and Form No.	 33,which is prescribedtherefor is as follows:" This permit is hereby renewed up to the day of....... 19Thus,	what  is  renewed  is  "  this	permit".   In	thisconnection,  reference must be made to the definition  of  "permit " in s. 2(2) of the Act 'as " the document issued  bya  Provincial or Regional Transport Authority Rule  1985  isvery material for the purpose of the present discussion, andit runs as follows:If an application for the renewal of a permit has been	madein  accordance with these rules and the prescribed fee	paidby  the	 prescribed date, the permit shall  continue  to  beeffective  until  orders are passed on	the  application  oruntil the expiry of three months from the date of receipt ofthe  application  whichever is earlier.	 If  orders  on	 theapplication are not passed within three months from the dateof  receipt of the application, the permit-holder  shall  beentitled  to  have  the	 permit	 renewed  by  the  TransportAuthority for the period specified in the application or forone year whichever is less and the Transport Authority shallcall  upon  the permit-holder to  produce  the	registrationcertificate  or certificates and Part B or Parts A and B  ofthe  permit, as the case may be, and endorse the renewal  inParts  A and B of the permit accordingly and return them  tothe permit holder ".Under  this rule, when an application for renewal  is  made,the permit already granted is to be in force 'until an orderis  passed thereon, and what is more important, if no  orderis passed within three months,672the  permit 'becomes automatically renewed for the  ,,periodmentioned in the rule.	This goes a long way to support	 thecontention of the respondents that on the scheme of the Act,renewal is a continuation of the original permit.  It shouldalso be mentioned that the rules provide for different formsfor an application for fresh permit and one for renewal, andthe  fee  to be paid along with those applications  is	alsodifferent.  A reading of the relevant provisions of the	 Actand of the rules leads indubitably to the conclusion that  arenewal is a continuation of the permit previously  granted.The  fact  that	 the grant of renewal is  not  a  matter  ofcourse,	 or  that it is open to the  authorities  to  imposefresh  conditions at the time of renewal does not, when	 thepermit is in fact renewed, alter its character as a renewal.We  shall  now	consider the authorities  cited	 by  learnedcounsel	 for  the appellant as supporting the  view  that  arenewal	 under	the Act is in the same position as  a  freshpermit.	  In Mahabir Motor Co. v. Bihar State(1), the  pointfor  decision  was  whether an appeal lay under	 s.  64	 (f)against	 an  order  granting a renewal	of  a  permit.	 Thecontention  before  the	 Court	was  that  the	Act  made  adistinction  between  the grant of a permit  and  a  renewalthereof, and that as s. 64 (f), provided only for an  appealagainst an order granting a permit, no appeal lay against anorder granting a renewal.  In repelling this contention	 theCourt observed"Both  grant.  and renewal stand more or less  on  the	samefooting by reason of ss. 47, 57 and 58 of the Motor VehiclesAct............This  observation  has	reference to  the  procedure  to  befollowed in the renewal of a permit and the right of  appealgiven  under  a. 64 as part of that procedure.	It  has,  no-bearing  on the character of a permit when it	is  renewed.Another	 decision on which the appellant strongly relied  isAnjiah	v.  Regional Transport Officer, Guntur	There,	the,facts  were that an order of suspension had been passed	 forbreach of one of the(1)  [1556] I.L.R. 34 Patna 429.(2)  [1956] Andhra Law Times 347.]			    673conditions of the permit. - The correctness of the order waschallenged  before higher authorities, but without  success.Meantime, the period fixed in the permit had expired, and ithad  been renewed.  The question was whether the  period  ofsuspension could be enforced against the renewed permit.  Itwas  held  by the Andhra High Court that it  could  not	 be,because the renewal was, in essence, a new permit and not  amere  continuance  of  the old one.  The  reason  for'	thisdecision was thus stated in the judgment:" There is no right of renewal as such and when a permit  isrenewed,  there	 is  no right either, on  the  part  of	 thepermit-holder  to  insist upon the continuance	of  the	 oldterms.	 It  would be undesirable that there should  be	 anysuch restrictions upon the right of the authorities to grantthe  permit  to	 anybody  they	choose	or  subject  to	 anyconditions  that they think -it to be necessary	 to  impose,provided  that	they are acting all the time in	 the  publicinterest and subject to the provisions of the Motor VehiclesAct and the.  Rules made thereunder."These considerations, though not without force, can. not, inour  opinion,  outweigh the inference to be drawn  from	 theother provisions to which we have made reference and for thereasons	 already  given, we are unable to  agree  with	thisdecision.In the view that we have taken that under the provisions  ofthe  Act and the rules, a renewal is a continuation  of	 theoriginal permit, there can be no doubt as to what the rightsof  the appellant are.	When the proprietor of V. C. K.	 BusService	 was  granted  a permit by  the	 Regional  TransportAuthority on December 3, 1952, that grant was subject to theresult	of  the	 decision of  the  higher  authorities.	  OnSeptember 5, 1954, when the permit was renewed in favour  ofthe appellant, that was subject to the decision of the	HighCourt in Writ Appeal No. 32 of 1954, which was then pending.When  the renewed permit dated September 5, 1954, was  againrenewed	 on June 23, 1955, that was likewise subject to	 theresult of the decision in Writ Appeal No. 32 of 1954.	Whenthe High Court by its judgment dated March67421,  1956,  passed  in	the  said  Writ	 Appeal	 upheld	 thecancellation  of  the permit which had been granted  by	 theRegional Transport Authority on December 3, 1952 to V. C. K.Bus  Service,  the permit renewed on June 23,  1955,  becameineffective  at	 least	as from	 that  date.   The  RegionalTransport  Authority was therefore right in treating  it  ashaving	become void, and granting by his order dated May  5,1956, permits to the respondents.The  second  question arises on the  alternative  contentionadvanced  by the respondents that even if the renewal is  tobe  regarded, not as a continuation of the  original  permitbut  as an independent grant, it must be held to  have	beensubject to an implied condition that if the original  permitis ultimately set aside, the renewal thereof should come  toan  end.   Mr. Sastri, learned counsel	for  the  appellant,disputes the correctness of this contention.  He argues thatwhen there is a document embodying the terms' of a contract,it is not permissible to imply therein a condition, if	thatwill  contradict or vary any terms contained in it, that  toread into the permit a condition that it is to cease if	 thedecision  of  the High Court went  against  the	 appellant,'would be to modify the terms contained therein that it is tobe  effective  upto  June 30, 1958, and that  it  could	 nottherefore  be  implied.	  He also relies  on  the  followingobservation  of	 Lord  Parker in  P.  A.  Tamplin  SteamshipCompany	 Limited v. AngloMexican Petroleum Products  CompanyLimited (1) :"  This principle is one of contract law, depending on	someterm  or condition to be implied in the contract itself	 andnot  on something entirely dehors the contract which  bringsthe  contract  to an end.  It is, of course,  impossible  toimply in a contract any term or condition inconsistent	withits express provisions, or with the intention of the partiesas gathered from those provisions."It  is	undoubted law that when the terms of a	contract  orgrant  are reduced to writing, no condition can	 be  impliedtherein, which will be inconsistent with its express  terms.But the contention of the respondents(1)  [1916] 2 A.C. 307, 422.675involves no conflict with this principle.  They do not	seekto obtain any modification or alteration of the terms of thepermit, -leaving it to operate subject to such	modificationor alteration.	They want that the whole permit with all itsterms  as to duration and otherwise should be held  to	havebecome	inoperative.  What they are pleading is a  conditionsubsequent on the happening of which the permit will  cease,and  to that situation the observation quoted above  has  noapplication.   Reference may be made in this  connection  tothe  following observation occurring later in the speech  ofLord  Parker in F. A. Tamplin Steamship Company	 Limited  v.Anglo-Mexican Petroleum Products Company, Limited (supra):" Moreover, some conditions can be more readily implied thanothers.	 Speaking generally, it seems to me easier to  implya  condition  precedent	 defeating  a  contract	 before	 itsexecution   has	 commenced  than  a   condition	  subsequentdefeating the contract when it is part performed."Thus,  there  is no legal obstacle to implying	a  conditionthat the renewal should stand cancelled if the right of	 theappellant  to the original permit was negatived by the	HighCourt.That  brings  us on to the question of fact, whether  on  anexamination  of the permit and of the circum. stances  underwhich  it came to be granted, we can infer that it  was	 theintention  of the Regional Transport Authority to renew	 thepermit	subject	 to the result of the decision of  the	HighCourt  in the appeal which was then pending before it.	 Thepermit	granted to the V. C. K. Bus Service on	December  3,1952,  had been cancelled on February 19, 1953, and  it	 wasonly by reason of the stay orders that the bus was permittedto run.	 When the appellant applied for renewal on April 15,1954,  there was opposition to the grant thereof  from	boththe  respondents  herein,  based  on  the  decision  of	 theGovernment  dated July 9, 1953, and it was in view of  theirobjection that the Regional Transport Authority renewed	 thepermit for one year from July 1, 1954 to June 30, 1955.	  Itis true that87676when  the appellant applied again for renewal on  March	 19,1955,  the respondents did not raise objection thereto,	 butas  the appeals in the High Court were still  pending,	theyhad good reason to believe that the renewal would not affectwhatever  rights  might be declared in their favour  by	 theHigh Court.  As all the papers relating to the grant of	 theoriginal permit and the subsequent proceedings were part  ofthe  record before the Regional Transport Authority when  herenewed	 the  permit on June 23, 1955, it is  impossible  toresist	the conclusion that he really intended to renew	 thepermit only subject to the decision of theHigh Court.It is of the utmost importance in this connection to bear inmind  that the appellant applied not for a fresh permit	 butfor a renewal, and in sanctioning it, the Regional TransportAuthority  expressly acted in exercise of his  powers  underRule  134-A  read with s. 58 of the Act, and if he  did	 notexpressly provide that it was subject to the decision of theHigh Court, it must be because he must have considered	thatthat  was implicit in the fact of its being only a  renewal.That that is how the appellant understood it is clear beyonddoubt from the proceedings taken by it immediately after theHigh Court pronounced its judgment.But  it is argued for the appellant on the strength  of	 thedecision  in Veerappa Pillai v. Raman & Raman  Ltd.(1)	thatthe  mere knowledge on the part of the authorities that	 therights	of  the	 parties  were under  litigation  is  not  asufficient  ground to import a condition in the permit	thatit is subject to the result of that litigation, when in	 itsterms it is unconditional.  We do not read that decision  asauthority  for	any  such  broad  contention.	There,	 thequestion related to five permits, which had been  originallygranted	 to  one  Balasubramania.   Raman  and	Raman	Ltd.obtained  a transfer of the relative buses, and	 applied  tothe  transport	authorities for transfer of the	 permits  toitself.	  Then,	 Veerappa  having  subsequently	 obtained  atransfer of the same buses from Balasubramania,(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 583.677applied	 to  have the permits transferred in his  name.	  OnOctober 3, 1944, he also instituted a suit in the Sub-Court,Kumbakonam,  to	 establish his title to	 the  buses  againstRaman and Raman Ltd., and that was decreed in his favour  onMay  2,	 1946.	Raman and Raman Ltd. appealed  against	thisdecision  to  the Madras High Court, which by  its  judgmentdated  September  2, 1949, reversed the decree of  the	Sub-Court  and  held that it was entitled to the  buses.   Whilethese  proceedings were going on, the transport	 authoritiessuspended  on  March 28, 1944, the permits  which  had	beengranted	 to  Balasubramania and instead, they  were  issuingtemporary  permits  from time to time to Veerappa,  who	 hadbeen  appointed	 receiver  in the  suit	 in  the  Sub-Court,Kumbakonam.   On March 29, 1949, the Government	 decided  todiscontinue   the  policy  of  granting	 temporary   permitsindefinitely, and accordingly granted permanent permits,  toVeerappa.   Then on October 14, 1949, Veerappa	applied	 forrenewal of these permanent permits, and that was granted  bythe  Regional  Transport Authority on January  3,1950.	 Thequestion  was whether this order was bad on the ground	thatit was inconsistent with the decision of the High Court thatit was Raman and Raman Ltd., that had obtained a valid titleto  the	 buses.	 This Court held that the ownership  of	 thebuses  was only one of the factors to be taken into  accountin granting the permits, and that as the Regional  TransportAuthority granted the renewal on an appreciation of all	 thefacts,	his  decision  was not liable to  be  questioned  inproceedings  under  Art. 226.  It should be noted  that	 therenewal	 which	was  granted  on January  3,  1950,  was  ofpermanent permits granted in pursuance of the, order of	 theGovernment  dated  March 29, 1949, which had  quite  plainlydeclared  as  a matter of policy  that	notwithstanding	 thependency  of  litigation  between  the	parties,   permanentpermits	 should	 be granted to Veerappa.  There	 can  be  noquestion  of implying thereafter a condition that they	weresubject to the decision of the Court.  Moreover, the renewalwas  granted  on January 3, 1950, after the  litigation	 hadended  on  September 2, 1949, and any attack on	 that  ordercould only be by678way of appeal against it, and that had not been done, We areof  opinion that the decision in Veerappa Pillai v. Raman  &Raman Ltd. (1) is of no assistance to the appellant.In the result, we affirm the decision of the High Court bothon  the	 ground that the renewal dated June 23, 1955,  is  acontinuation of the permit granted on December 3, 1952,	 andmust fall to the ground when that stood finally set aside bythe judgment of the High Court in Writ Appeal No. 32 of 1954dated  March  21,  1956, and on the ground that	 it  was  animplied condition of that renewal that it was to be  subjectto  the decision of the High Court in that appeal, and	thatin  the	 event	which  had happened, it	 had  ceased  to  beeffective.These  appeals fail, and are dismissed with costs  in  CivilAppeal No. 323 of 1956.Appeals dismissed.