PETITIONER:THE PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK, LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/09/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1960 AIR  160		  1960 SCR  (1) 806 CITATOR INFO : F	    1960 SC 762	 (13) R	    1960 SC1262	 (4) R	    1961 SC 689	 (7) R	    1961 SC 860	 (8) R	    1963 SC 601	 (6) F	    1965 SC 917	 (5) R	    1965 SC1803	 (11) F	    1968 SC 231	 (14) R	    1971 SC2171	 (5) R	    1971 SC2417	 (7,11) R	    1972 SC 136	 (33) R	    1972 SC 277	 (10) RF	    1972 SC1031	 (21,51) E	    1973 SC1227	 (18,20) F	    1978 SC 995	 (6,10,12) R	    1978 SC1380	 (8) RF	    1978 SC1428	 (18,20) RF	    1979 SC1652	 (18) RF	    1980 SC1896	 (148) RF	    1981 SC 422	 (4) RF	    1990 SC1054	 (19)ACT:Industrial    Dispute-Dismissal	   by	 employer    pendingadjudication  -Omission	 to hold proper	 enquiry  or  obtainpermission of the Tribunal-Such dismissal, if wholly  void--Jurisdiction of Tribunal, Scope of-Pen-down strike-Legality_If  disentitles	 a  dismissed  employee	 to   reinstatement-Industrial  Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), ss.  2(q),	 10,33, 33A.HEADNOTE:The  employees	of  the appellant  Bank	 commenced  pen-downstrikes,  which were followed by a general  strike,  pendingarbitration  of	 an industrial dispute	between	 them.	 TheGovernment  of	India  intervened and as the  result  of  anagreement   that  followed  the	 Bank  reinstated  all	 theemployees   except  150,  against  whom	 it   had   positiveobjections, and the Government referred their cases under s.10  of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047, to the  IndustrialTribunal  for  adjudication.   The  two	 issues	 before	 theIndustrial Tribunal were whether the 150 employees had	beenwrongly dismissed and what wages and allowances would the807employees be entitled to on reinstatement.  The case of	 theemployees  was that the Bank wanted to penalise	 the  activetrade  union workers by the said dismissals while  the	Bankmaintained  that the employees were guilty of  participationin  illegal  strikes intended to paralyse its  business	 andscare  away its customers.  The Industrial Tribunal did	 nothear  evidence	and,  by its final  award,  held  that,	 thestrikes	 being illegal, the Bank was, on that ground  alone,justified in dismissing the employees.	Even so, it directedthe  Bank  to  make certain payments  to  the  employees  oncompassionate  grounds.	 The Bank as well as  the  employeesappealed.   The	 Labour Appellate Tribunal  held  that	eventhough the strikes were illegal under s. 23(b) read with  s.24(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the Bank had, byentering  into the agreement with the Government  of  India,waived its right to take penal action against the  employeesfor  joining  the illegal strikes and  that,  therefore,  anenquiry should be held on additional evidence to decide	 thedisputes  on merits.  Against this interlocutory  order	 theBank  appealed to this Court and it was held by	 this  Courtthat while the strikes were no doubt illegal under s.  23(b)of the Act, the orders of dismissal passed by the Bank	wereno  less  so under s. 33 of the Act, and  it  dismissed	 theappeal.	 The Appellate Tribunal, thereafter, heard the caseson  merits,  directed-the reinstatement of 136 of  the	saidemployees,  but refused to reinstate the rest whom it  foundguilty	of issuing posters and circulars subversive  of	 thecredit	of  the	 Bank.	Both the parties  appealed  to	thisCourt.	Preliminary objections were raised on behalf of	 thesaid  employees	 that, (1) in view of the decision  of	thisCourt	dismissing  the	 Bank's	 appeal	 against  the	saidinterlocutory  order the subsequent inquiry by the  Tribunaland the orders of dismissal must be held to be void and, (2)no  charges  having been admittedly framed  nor	 any  properenquiry	 held by the Bank against the employees, the  ordersof dismissal were wholly invalid.  It was urged, inter alia,on behalf of the Bank in the appeals that participation in apen-down strike by itself amounted to misconduct  sufficientto  disentitle	an employee to reinstatement  and  that	 theentire body of strikers, being collectively responsible	 forthe publication of the subversive documents in question, thedismissed employees could by no means escape liability.Held  (per curiam), that the preliminary objections must  benegatived  and	the  decision  of  the	Appellate   Tribunalaffirmed  with	this  modification  that,  in  view  of	 itsinconsistent  findings, the appeal of one of  the  employeesmust be allowed.Per   Sinha   and  Gajendragadkar,   JJ.-The   purpose	 theLegislature had in view in enacting s. 33 of the  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947,  was to maintain	the  status  quo  byplacing	 a  ban	 on  any  action  by  the  employer  pendingadjudication.But the jurisdiction conferred on the Industrial Tribunal byS. 33 of the Act was a limited one.  Where a proper  enquiryhad been held and no victimisation or unfair labour practicehad been808resorted to, the Tribunal in granting permission had only tosatisfy itself that there was a Prima facie case against theemployee  and not to consider the propriety or	adequacy  ofthe ,proposed action.  But to such permission, when granted,the Tribunal could attach no conditions; it can either grantor refuse it.The  effect  of such permission was only to remove  the	 banimposed	 by s. 33 of the Act.  It could neither	 validate  adismissal  nor	prevent	 it  from  being  challenged  in  anindustrial dispute; but in such a dispute, when raised,	 theemployer  could justify its action only on such	 grounds  aswere specified in the original charge-sheet and no others.There was substantial difference between non-compliance withs. 33 of the Act and that with Art. 311(2) of the  Constitu-tion.  Compliance with s. 33 only avoided the penalty  unders.  31(1) of the Act, while compliance with Art.  311(2)  ofthe Constitution made the order of dismissal final.Atherton  West	&  Co. Ltd.  V. Suti  Mills  Mazdoor  Union,[1953] S.C.R. 780, The Automobile Products of India Ltd.  v.Rukmaji Bala, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1241, Lakshmi Devi Sugar MillsLtd.  v. Pt.  Ram Sarup, [1956] S.C.R. 916, Indian lron	 andSteel  Co.  Ltd.  v. Their Workmen, [1958]  S.C.R.  667	 andMcKenzie  & Co. Ltd. v. Its Workmen, [1959] S.C.R.  (Suppl.)222 referred to.It  was	 not,  therefore,  correct  to	contend	 that	non-compliance with s. 33 of the Act could render the orders  ofdismissal  wholly void or take away the jurisdiction of	 theTribunal to hold the enquiry.  Nor could the failure to holda proper enquiry have that effect.Under  s.  33A of the Act, as construed by this	 Court,	 thejurisdiction  of the Tribunal was not limited to an  enquiryas  to the contravention of s. 33 of the Act.  Even if	suchcontravention  was proved, the employer could still  justifythe impugned dismissal on merits and there was no differencein  this regard between a reference under s. 10 of  the	 Actand a dispute raised under s. 33A of the Act.The  Automobile	 Products  of India Ltd.  v.  Rukmaji  Bala,[1955]	1  S.C.R. 1241 and Equitable Coal  Co.Ltd.  v.	AlguSingh, A.I.R. 1958 S C. 761, referred to.Although  there	 can be no doubt that in  proper  cases	 theIndustrial Tribunal has the power to direct reinstatement indisputes  arising out of dismissal of employees, it  is	 notpossible to Jay down any hard and fast rule to be applied tosuch  cases.   In  coming to its  decision,  the  IndustrialTribunal  has  to reconcile the conflicting  claims  of	 theemployer and the employee,--the latter's right to protectionagainst	 wrongful dismissal, and in such a case	 the  normalrule  is reinstatement, and the interest and safety  of	 theindustry  itself.   Its approach to such a  problem  cannot,therefore, be legalistic or doctrinaire or as is permissible809in  a civil court deciding the validity of dismissals  underS. 240 of the Government of India Act, 1935, or Art.  311(2)of the Constitution.Western India Automobile Association v. Industrial Tribunal,Bombay,	 [1949] F.C.R. 321 and Buckingham &  Carnatic  MillsLtd. v.	  Their Workmen, (1955) 11 L.L.J. 314, referred to.If  no enquiry is held by the employer before it  passes  anorder  of dismissal, the propriety of such dismissal can  beadjudged by the Tribunal on evidence and no employer can  beallowed	 to  object to it on the ground that  it  interfereswith the exercise of its managerial function.The  Madras Electric Tramways, (1904) Ltd.  Madras v.  TheirWorkers,  (1951)  11  L.L.J.  204,  distinguished  and	heldinapplicable.The  propriety	of reinstatement in a case  of	wrongful  orillegal	 dismissal is normally a question of fact and  wherethe  Industrial	 Tribunal on a proper consideration  of	 therelevant  factors refuses to pass such an order	 this  Courtwould be reluctant, in absence of any general or substantialquestion  of  law,  to	interfere under	 Art.	136  of	 theConstitution.A  pen-down strike falls within the definition of  a  strikecontained  in S. 2(q) of the Industrial Disputes Art,  1947,and  is	 not Per se illegal.  Even if it  might	 involve  anelement	 of  civil  trespass as in the	present	 case,	thatcannot disentitle an employee to reinstatement.M/s.   Burn  & Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, A.I.R.  1959	S.C.529, referred to.It is not safe to extend principles of American decisions tosuch  a	 strike without a careful scrutiny of  the  relevantprovisions  of the American Statute and the facts  on  whichthe said decisions are based.National  Labour Relations Board v.  Fansteel  MetallurgicalCorporation, 306 U.S. 238, considered and held inapplicable.William	 Truax	v.  Michael  Corrigan,	66  Law.   Ed.	311,referred to.Since  in  the instant case, the  peaceful  and	 non-violentconduct of the strikers, as found by the Appellate Tribunal,could not amount to criminal trespass within, the meaning ofs.  441 of the Indian Penal Code, mere participation in	 thepen-down strike did not disentitle them to reinstatement.T.   H.	 Bird  v. King-emperor, (1934) L.R. XIII  Pat.	268,held inapplicable.The mere fact that the employer had engaged new hands duringthe  strike,  was  not sufficient to  defeat  the  claim  toreinstatement  of such employees as were subsequently  foundto have been wrongfully dismissed.National Transport and General Co. Ltd. v. The Workmen, C.A.NO. 312 of 1956, decided on January 22, 1957, referred to.810But  where, as in the instant case, the	 Appellate  Tribunaltook a common-sense view of the matter of evidence and	heldcertain	 office-bearers and leaders of the union liable	 forsubversive  acts and refused to extend such liability to theentire body of strikers on theoretical and academic grounds,no principles of natural justice could be said to have	beencontravened by it.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 519 to	 521of 1958.Appeal	by  special leave from the  decision  dated  January4,1955, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, Calcutta,in Appeals Nos.	 Cal. 69152 and Cal. 70/52.			    ANDCivil Appeal No. 521 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the decision dated January  4,1955, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, Calcutta inAppeal No. Cal 70/52.Ram Lal Anand and Naunit Lal, for the appellant in C.A.	 No.519 of 58.H.   N.	 Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,	 RamLal  Anand  and Naunit Lal, for the appellants in  C.A.	 No.520/58 and respondents in C.A. NO. 521 of 58.M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   C.	  K.Daphtary,   Solicitor-General,	M.   K.	  Ramamurthi,	SyedMahummud,  B.  K.  Garg, Miss.	A.  B.	Varma  and  JanardanSharma, for respondent No. 1 in C.A. Nos. 519 and 520 of  58and appellant in C.A. No. 521 of 58.Hardyal Hardy and M. B. Krishna Pillai, for respondent No. 2in C.As, Nos. 519 & 520 of 58.1959.	 September   24.    The	 judgment   of	 Sinha	 andGajendragadkar,	 JJ.,  was delivered by	 Gajendragadkar,  J.Subba Rao, J., delivered a separate judgment.J.GAJENDRAGADKAR  J.-These  three appeals arise	 out  of  anindustrial  dispute between the Punjab National	 Bank,	Ltd.(hereinafter called the Bank) and two sets of its  employeesrepresented   by  the.	 All-India  Punjab   National	BankEmployees'  Federation (hereinafter called  the	 Federation)and  the U.P. Bank Employees' Union hereinafter	 called	 theUnion) respectively.811On  July 2, 1951, this dispute was referred by	the  CentralGovernment  for adjudication to the industrial	tribunal  ofwhich Mr. A. N. Sen, a retired Judge of,, the Calcutta	HighCourt,	was  the sole member.  It raised  two  issues.	 Thefirst  was  whether  the 150 workmen mentioned	in  Sch.  11attached  to the reference had been wrongfully dismissed  bythe  Bank,  and the second had reference to  the  claim	 forreinstatement  and payment of wages and allowances from	 thedate  of  dismissal  to	 the  date  of	reinstatement.	 Thereference  thus made has gone through a long and  protractedcareer	and  the  final decision of  the  dispute  would  bereached	 after we dispose of the present appeals.  In  orderto  appreciate the points raised for our decision  in  theseappeals	 it is necessary to indicate briefly at	 the  outsetthe  salient points of controversy between the parties,	 thefindings  made	by the original	 tribunal,  the	 conclusionsreached	  by   the   Labour  Appellate	 Tribunal   in	 itsinterlocutory  and final judgments and the decision of	thisCourt in the appeal which had been brought before it by	 theBank  against  the  interlocutory  judgment  of	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal.The  150  employees, whose dismissal has given rise  to	 thepresent	 dispute  are spread over several  branches  of	 theBank.  52  of them work at its head office in Delhi,  15  inBombay, 73 in East Punjab and 10 in U.P. 140 workmen in	 thefirst  three areas are represented by the  Federation  whilethe  last 10 in U.P. are represented by the Union.   All  ofthese employees took part in strike which, according to	 theBank, were illegal.  The strikes in which the two respectivegroups	of  workmen took part were, however,  for  differentreasons.The strike in which the Federation took part was the  resultof  the	 suspension  by the Bank  of  its  typist  Sabharwalemployed in the Delhi Branch of the Bank on April 17,  1951.It  appears  that Sabharwal, who was the  Secretary  of	 thePunjab	National Bank Employees' Union, Delhi,	had  appliedfor  leave  for	 seven	days  on  April	 3,  1951,  but	 hisapplication  was rejected; even so he absented himself	fromduty  and went to Bombay.  As soon as he resumed his  dutieson812April  14, 1951, he was supplied with a written	 chargesheetfor  absence without leave which he refused to	accept.	  Itwas then sent to him by registered post, and on April 17  hewas suspended.	This suspension was followed by an immediatepen-down  strike  at  the head office of  the  Delhi  Branchsubsequent  to which the Bank suspended 60 other  employees.This  led  to  a  general strike in  Delhi  and	 many  otherbranches  and it commenced at different dates from April  18to 20, 1951.  On April 21-22, 1951, the Bank issued  noticescalling upon all striking members of the staff to report forduty by 10 a. m. on April 24, 1951, and it warned them	thatif  they  did not comply with the notice it would  be  takenthat  they  had voluntarily ceased to be its  employees	 andtheir services would be deemed to have terminated from	thatdate.  This was followed by another notice on April 24 whichannounced  that	 the strikers who had failed to	 report	 forduty as aforesaid had ceased to be the employees of the Bankfrom  April 24, 1951.  An option was, however, given to	 thestrikers  who were still willing to rejoin duty to apply  inthat behalf and explain their action in staying away.  It iscommon	ground	that the 140 employees	represented  by	 theFederation  who had taken part in the strike were  dismissedby  the	 Bank for absence due to the strike.   That  is	 thegenesis	 of the dispute between the Bank and the  Federationin relation to the 140 employees of the Bank.The  strike in which the remaining 10 employees of the	Bankfrom the U.P. branches are concerned commenced on April	 23,1951.	This  strike was in pursuance of the  strike  noticeserved	by  the Union on the Bank on April 22,	1951.	Thispen-down  strike  was  a part of the  general  strike  whichaffected  not only the Bank but also the Allahabad Bank	 andother  banks  in  the  U.P.  region.   The  Regional  LabourCommissioner of the U.P. Government who intervened suggestedthat the general strike should be called off and recommendedthat  some  of the demands made by the	strikers  should  bereferred  to  the industrial tribunal for  adjudication;  inaccordance with this request, on April 30, 1951, the  strikecommittee decided to call off the strike and813Advised workmen to join duty from May Is 1951.	This advice,however,  did  not reach all the branches in time  with	 theresult	that  some of the employees of the Bank	 offered  toresume	work  on May 3,1951.  The other banks  in  the	U.P.region took back their employees who rejoined on May 3,	 butthe  Bank refused to take back its employees on	 the  groundthat  they' had not offered to rejoin on or before the	datefixed;	and so it proceeded to dismiss them.  The  dismissalof  the said 10 employees is also the subject-matter of	 thepresent	 reference.  That is bow the reference is  concernedwith the dismissal of 150 employees of the Bank in all.The  strikes in question which affected the head office	 andthe  large number of branches of the Bank operating in	morethan  one  State and a very large number  of  its  employeescaused	public	concern, and so the Prime Minister  and	 theLabour	Department  of	the Central  Government	 thought  itnecessary to intervene; and a conference was arranged at NewDelhi  between the officers of the Government and the  Bank.To this conference the representatives of the Federation  orthe  Union were, however, not invited.	This conference	 ledto  an agreement as a result of which the Bank undertook  toreinstate  all	its  employees who had	taken  part  in	 thestrikes	 except	 those	to  whose  reinstatement  it  had  "positive  objections".	 This, however, was subject  to	 thereservation  that  the number of such employees was  not  toexceed	150 and that their case,-, would be referred by	 theCentral	 Government  for adjudication by a  tribunal.	Thisagreement  was	the result of several meetings	between	 therepresentatives of the Bank and the Labour Department of theCentral	 Government  and it was reached on or about  May  9,1951.Thereafter  the	 head  office of the Bank  sent	 a  circularletter	to  all	 its  branches	calling	 for  names  of	 theemployees who according to the branch managers could not  beconsidered  for reinstatement.	The list of  such  employeesreceived by the head office from the respective managers  ofits  branches was examined by the head office and  the	Bankthen compiled the103814list  of 150 workmen whom it was not prepared to  reinstate.This list was in due course communicated by the Bank to	 theCentral	 Government;  and  in  pursuance  of  the  agreementaforesaid  the	Central Government referred the	 dispute  inrespect of the said 150 workmen for adjudication before	 thetribunal by its notification issued on July 2, 1951.Before	the  tribunal the case for the	Federation  and	 theUnion was that the refusal of the Bank to take back the	 150workmen	 in  question  was  a  part  of	 the  concerted	 anddeliberate  plan adopted by the management of the  Bank	 forvictimising  the President, the Vice-President, the  GeneralSecretary  and Secretaries and Treasurer of  the  Federationand of the working committees of the different trade  unionsof workers and the members of the strike committees, and  itshowed that the sole object of the Bank in refusing to	takeback those employees was to teach a lesson to the Federationand  -the  Union  and to penalise  all	active	trade  unionworkers who supported the cause of the employees.On  the other hand, the Bank contended that the	 strikes  inwhich  the 150 employees had participated were	illegal	 andhad  been resorted to not with a view to obtain	 relief	 forthe  employees but with a view to paralyse the	business  ofthe Bank and to scare away its customers.  The Bank  furtheralleged	 that  the  said  150 employees	 were  guilty  of  "unpardonable  acts of violence, intimidation,  coercion	 andvictimisation."The  tribunal gave two interim awards by which	it  directedthe  Bank to make some payments to the 150 employees by	 wayof allowance pending the final disposal of the dispute.	  OnFebruary  2, 1952, the tribunal pronounced its final  award.It held that the strikes were illegal and that the' Bank wasentitled to dismiss the employees solely on the ground	thatthe  said employees had participated in an  illegal  strike.On  this  view the tribunal did not think  it  necessary  toallow  evidence	 to be given on the question as	 to  whethersome  of the strikers were guilty of specific subversive  orviolent acts.  It also did not allow815evidence to be led by workmen in support of their plea	thattheir dismissal was the result of victimisation.  It decidedthe  dispute  on  the sole ground,  that  the  strikes	wereillegal	 and participation in illegal strikes justified	 thedismissal  of the employees.  Even so the tribunal  made  anorder directing the Bank to pay certain amounts to the	saidemployees on compassionate grounds.The direction issued by the tribunal for the payment of	 thesaid amount was challenged by the Bank by its appeal (No. 25of  1952) before the Labour Appellate Tribunal	(hereinaftercalled the appellate tribunal), whereas the decision of	 thetribunal  that	the  150  employees  were  not	entitled  toreinstatement was challenged by the two sets of employees bytwo  different	appeals	 (Nos.	69 and	70  of	1952).	 Theappellate  tribunal recorded its interlocutary	decision  onSeptember  22,	1952.	As a result  of	 this  decision	 thedispute	 was  set  down for further hearing  on	 the  pointsindicated  by  it.   It was urged by  the  Bank	 before	 theappellate  tribunal  as	 a preliminary	objection  that	 theappeals	 preferred by the employees were incompetent.	Thisobjection  was	overruled.   The  appellate  tribunal	thenproceeded  to consider two questions of law, (1) whether  anemployer has the right to dismiss a workman for his  absencefrom duty by reason of his mere participation in an  illegalstrike,	 and (2) if he has, can the tribunal scrutinise	 theexercise  of that right and grant relief to such  a  workmanwhen  it  comes to the conclusion that the  right  has	beenexercised  capriciously or by unfair labour  practice.	 Theappellate  tribunal  held  that the strike  started  by	 theFederation  was illegal under s. 23 (b) read with s. 24	 (1)of  the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947)  (herein-after  called  the Act).  It appears that  on  February	 21,1950,  an  industrial  dispute	between	 the  Bank  and	 theFederation  had	 been  referred to the	arbitration  of	 Mr.Campbell  Puri,	 and  whilst the  proceedings  in  the	saidreference  were pending before the tribunal the	 strike	 wascommenced  on  or  about April 17, 1951.  That	is  why	 thestrike	was illegal.  The appellate tribunal, however,	heldthat, even if mere participation816in  an	illegal	 strike by workmen is assumed  to  give	 theemployer  certain rights against the striking workmen,	 theemployer  can  waive these rights, that is to  say,  rafrainfrom exercising those rights against the workmen.  Accordingto the appellate tribunal such waiver or relinquishment	 canbe inferred from conduct, and it thought that the conduct ofthe  Bank evidenced by the agreement which it  reached	withthe  Central  Government on or about May  9,  1951,  unambi-guously proved that it had waived or relinquished its rightsto  take any penal action against its employees	 merely	 fortheir participation in the illegal strike.  In other  words,the  effect  of the findings of the appellate  tribunal	 wasthat, though the strike was illegal, by its conduct the Bankhad  precluded itself from exercising its alleged  right  todismiss	 its  employees for their participation in  such  anillegal strike.The appellate tribunal also considered the general  questionof law as to whether participation in an illegal strike	 canbe  said to deserve dismissal of the striking  workmen.	  Ittook the view that an illegal strike absolves the  liabilityof  the	 employer to pay to its employees wages	 during	 theperiod	of  absence  of the striking workmen,  but  that  itcannot be stated as a general proposition that participationin an illegal strike would by itself necessarily involve thepenalty	 of  dismissal.	 The Bank attempted to	justify	 thedismissal  in  the  present  case by  urging  that  the	 150employees were guilty of violent or subversive acts but	 theappellate tribunal held that it was not open to the Bank  atthat stage to plead in justification of their dismissal	 anysuch  acts  of	violence or subversive	acts.	"  There  isabundant  authority ", observed the appellate,	tribunal,  "for the proposition that an employer can justify before	 thetribunal  a  dismissal	only  on  the  ground  on  which  hepurported to dismiss him and not a ground different from  it".  That is why in the end the appellate tribunal held	thatthe dismissals were wrongful.  The appellate tribunal had nodoubt  that  mere participation by a workman in	 an  illegalstrike	or his absence due to such participation   does	 notentitle an employer to dismiss him and that it is817open to a tribunal to order reinstatement in a proper  case.Having	reached	 this  conclusion  the	appellate   tribunalobserved that "though in the case of wrongful dismissals thenormal	rule  is  that the  employees  wrongfully  dismissedshould be reinstated, it would nevertheless be necessary  toconsider  the question of reinstatement in the case of	eachindividual  employee in the light of requirements of  socialjustice	 and  fair play for which the  employee	 claims	 andindustrial   peace   and  discipline  which   the   employeremphasizes."  In  order to decide the cases of	the  severalemployees  from	 this twofold point of	view  the  appellatetribunal  thought it was necessary to allow the	 parties  tolead additional evidence on relevant points.  The  employeeswanted	to  lead  evidence  in	support	 of  their  case  ofvictimisation  and  they  were	allowed	 to  do	 so  by	 theappellate  tribunal.   The Bank wanted to lead	evidence  onfive  points.  The appellate tribunal held that evidence  onitems  (3) and (5) would be irrelevant and it  thought	thatitem  (4) was too vague.  That is why 'the Bank was  allowedto lead evidence only in respect of item (2) and some  headsmentioned in item (1).	In the result opportunity was  givento the parties to lead evidence on the following points: (1)victimisation,	 (2)  past  service  records  of   the	 150employees, (3) conduct of those 150 employees or any of themduring the strike confined to acts of violence, intimidatingloyal workers and acts subversive of the credit of the Bank,(4) employment which any of those 150 persons got after thisdismissal,  the period during which they were in  employmentand  the wages or emoluments they received.   The  appellatetribunal then directed the Bank to file a statement within amonth giving particulars of the acts confined to the matterson which the Bank was allowed to lead evidence in respect ofeach one of the 150 employees after supplying a copy of	 thesame,  one to the Federation and one to the Union.   In	 themeanwhile  the appellate tribunal directed the Bank to	makeinterim payments to the employees as indicated in its order.This  interlocutary  judgment  was challenged  by  the	Bankbefore this Court by its appeal under Art. 136818of  the	 Constitution.	On behalf of the Bank it  was  urgedthat the conclusion of the appellate tribunal that the	Bankhad   condoned	the  illegal  strike  by  its  workmen	 wasunjustified  and that it was open to the Bank to  rely	uponthe  illegal strike as justifying the dismissal of the	saidworkmen.   The	case  of the Bank thus was  that  the  orderpassed	by the appellate tribunal setting down	the  disputefor  further  enquiry was illegal and should be	 set  aside.The judgment of this Court delivered by Patanjali Sastri, C.J., shows that this Court thought it unnecessary to  expressany opinion on the question of condonation or waiver of	 theillegal strike because, in its opinion, even if there was nosuch  condonation or waiver and even if it was open  to	 theBank  to rely upon the illegal strike as a valid ground	 fordismissing its employees, there was no doubt that the  orderof dismissal was illegal having regard to the provisions  ofs. 33 of the Act.  The said section furnished a short answerto the Bank's contention that the appellate tribunal had  nojurisdiction to order reinstatement of the 150 workmen.	  Inother words, just as the strike of the employees was illegalso was the order of dismissal passed by the Bank illegal andfor  a similar reason.	S. 23(b) of the Act made the  strikeillegal	 while	s.  33 of the Act made	the  dismissal	alsoillegal.  In the result the appeal preferred by the Bank wasdismissed;  and it was held that there was no  substance  inthe  plea  of the Bank that the appellate  tribunal  had  nojurisdiction to direct reinstatement of the employees.	Thisjudgment was pronounced on April 10, 1953.The   proceedings   before  the	 appellate   tribunal	weresubsequently resumed and they terminated on January 4, 1955,when  the appellate tribunal directed the  reinstatement  ofthe  136  employees and passed incidental orders  about	 thepayment	 of  their  wages.   It	 refused  to  reinstate	 theremaining  14  employees  but passed  orders  in  regard  topayment	 of  compensation even in their cases.	 Before	 theappellate  tribunal  four general points were sought  to  beraised at this subsequent hearing.  The first was in  regardto  the invalidity of the reference itself.  The second	 wasin regard to819the ultra vires character of the relevant provisions of	 theAct.   Both these contentions were not allowed to be  raisedby  the	 appellate  tribunal and they have  not	 been  urgedbefore	us  either.  The third contention' raised  was	thatboth  the  strikes were not bona fide and  so  the  strikingworkmen	 were  not entitled to reinstatement; and  the	lastcontention  was	 that the pen-down strike  was	illegal	 andparticipation  in it should be considered as a	circumstancedisqualifying	the   strikers	from   reinstatement.	 Theappellate  tribunal  has held that the strikes	in  questionwere  bona fide and that mere participation in the  pen-downstrike	cannot	be treated as a valid  ground  for  refusingreinstatement  to the strikers.	 It considered the  evidenceled by the parties in regard to the character of the strike,and  it	 held that the definite instruction  issued  to	 theemployees was to continue occupation of their seats till thepolice intervened and threatened to arrest and so it was notprepared  to  accept the employees' case that  the  pen-downstrikers  "vacated  their seats on the mere  asking  by	 themanagement"  According to the finding, the persons who	tookpart  in  the pen-down strike not only ceased  to  work	 butcontinued  to  occupy their seats.  The	 appellate  tribunalalso  found  that  the	pen-down  strikers  were  quiet	 andpeaceful,  that	 no  slogans were  shouted,  no	 attempt  atviolence or coercion was made and that they simply  occupiedtheir seats without doing any work.It was conceded before the appellate tribunal that  pen-downstrike	falls within the definition of strike prescribed  bys.  2(q)  of the Act; but it was urged that the act  of	 notvacating  their seats when asked by the management to do  sointroduced  an element of illegality and made  the  strikersliable	in  a  civil  court  for  trespass.   The  appellatetribunal  was not impressed with this argument but  it	heldthat  even if the striking workmen are assumed to have	madethemselves  liable for civil trespass that itself would	 notbe sufficient ground for refusing reinstatement.It  appears that the Bank relied upon several  documents  toshow  that the employees were guilty of	 subversive  actionsduring the course of the strike.  The820appellate  tribunal was not satisfied that  these  documentswere  genuine and could be effectively pressed into  serviceby  the Bank in support of its case.  It was also  urged  bythe  Bank that during the course of the strike	posters	 andcirculars  were issued which were clearly subversive of	 thecredit	of the Bank and it was contended that employees	 whowere  guilty of issuing such posters and circulars  did	 notdeserve	 reinstatement.	  The  appellate  tribunal  examinedthese documents and held that three of them amounted to sub-versive	 acts.	 They are Exs. 255(a), 255(c) and  302.	  Inregard	to  Ex. 302 the findings recorded by  the  appellatetribunal  in  two  places  of  its  decision  are   somewhatinconsistent;  but  the operative portion  of  the  decisionshows that the appellate tribunal was inclined to hold	thatEx.  302  was also objectionable and that it amounted  to  asubversive  act.   The rest of the documents no	 doubt	usedstrong	and intemperate language but the appellate  tribunalwas  not prepared to treat them as  constituting  subversiveactivity.  On this finding a question which arose before theappellate tribunal was : Who should be held responsible	 forthe  offending	documents ? The appellate tribunal  was	 notprepared to hold all the 150 employees responsible for them.In this connection it considered the statement made by H. N.Puri  in  this	evidence and it field that  since  Puri	 hadadmitted that he consulted 11 specified persons in preparingExs. 255(a) and 255(c) as well as other documents they	mustshare  the responsibility for the said documents along	withPuri.	Similarly  the	appellate  tribunal  held  that	 thepersons who were shown to have been responsible for Ex.	 302must  be treated on the same basis.  It was as a  result  ofthis  finding that the appellate tribunal refused to  directreinstatement  of 14 employees.	 In regard to the  remaining136 employees the appellate tribunal held that it would	 notbe right to impute the responsibility for the publication ofthe  three subversive documents to them merely because	theywere  members  of the working committee	 or  were  otherwiseactive	leaders	 of the Union.	The appellate  tribunal	 theconsidered  the	 voluminous evidence led by the	 parties  inrespect821of each one of the 150 employees, and it held that in regardto  the 136 employees no case had been made out by the	Bankfor refusing them reinstatement.It is clear from the decision of the appellate tribunal thatit was not at all satisfied with a substantial part ,of	 thedocumentary evidence adduced by, the Bank.  It held that theaffidavits  filed  by the Bank were  sometimes	prepared  enmasse and the deponents simply put their signatures on them.In  most of the affidavits there were blank spaces  for	 thename, parentage and age of the deponents and they have	beensubsequently  filled up in ink.	 Some of them, though  swornat different places, used identical language; while in	someothers	material  additions and alterations have  been	madewhich do not bear the initials either of the deponents or ofthe  oath  commissioner.   It  appeared	 to  the   appellatetribunal  that some of the statements made by the  witnessesof  the Bank showed that their affidavits had been  preparedby  the Bank's lawyers and they simply put their  signaturesthereon	 and  affirmed them before  the	 oath  commissioner.Indeed the appellate tribunal apparently thought that  therewas  some  force in the contention raised by  the  employeesthat  some  of the documents produced by the Bank  had	beenmanufactured  or  tampered with long after  the	 strike	 wasover,  It  has noticed the argument urged by the  Bank	thateven  if it was so the Bank cannot be condemned for the	 actor acts of its branch managers in that behalf. This argumentdid  not  appeal  to,  the  appellate  tribunal.   Thus	 thedecision of the appellate tribunal substantially upheld	 thecase  made  by the employees in that it directed  the  rein-statement  of the 136 out of the 150' employees and  orderedpayment	  of   compensation  to	 the  remaining	  14   whosereinstatement was not granted.This  decision has given rise to the three  present  appealsbefore	us.  Civil Appeal No. 519 of 1958 has been filed  bythe  Bank against the order of reinstatement in	 respect  of126  employees	represented by	the  Federation.   SimilarlyCivil  Appeal  No. 520 of 1958 has been filed  by  the	Bankagainst the order directing104822the reinstatement of 10 employees represented by the  Union;and  Civil  Appeal  No. 521 of 1958 has been  filed  by	 theFederation on behalf of the 14 employees the claim for whosereinstatement has been rejected.  In regard to the first twoappeals	 preferred by the Bank special leave was granted  tothe Bank on February 21, 1958, limited to grounds (b),	(c),(d), (f) and (g) set out in paragraph 162 of its  petitions.These grounds are:-(b)  Whether  employees, who have been	propagating  againstthe stability and solvency of the Bank by propaganda oral aswell as written through open letters, posters, leaflets	 andhand-bills  amongst  the customers and constituents  of	 theBank  and  the public at large before, during and  after  anillegal strike are entitled to an order of reinstatement ?(c)  Whether  after  the declaration of an  illegal  strike,forcible occupation of the seats and refusal to vacate them,when ordered to do so by the Management, does not constituteas  act	 of criminal trespass, it having been  held  by	 theappellate tribunal that the employees formed a large riotousassembly  in  and  outside  the premises  of  the  Bank	 anddelivered fiery and provocative speeches to accompaniment ofscurrilous slogans directed against the institution and	 itshigh officers with a view to render impossible the  businessof   the   institution,	 are  entitled	to   an	  order	  ofreinstatement ?(d)  Whether  a 'pen-down' strike of such a  character	doesnot contravene the provisions of the law of the land and  isexempted  under	 the  Trade Unions  Act	 or  the  IndustrialDisputes Act ?(f  ) Whether employees, who, notwithstanding the fact	thatthey  resorted	to  an illegal strike  and  were  guilty  ofrioting, had been invited by the Management to come back andresume	work  and who spurned at this offer and in  so	manywords  treated	it  with  contempt  and	 whose	places	had,therefore, to be replaced by fresh recruits are entitled  toan order that those fresh recruits be dismissed and replacedby the strikers ? 23(g)  Whether  it  is open to the employees of a	 concern  toraise  with  their Employers a question as  to	whether	 theEmployers  should  employ in their service  employees  of  aconcern	 other	than their own and whether such	 a  questionconstitutes  an 'industrial dispute' within the	 meaning  ofthe Industrial Disputes Act ?It  may	 be mentioned that the Bank's petitions	 had  raisedseveral	 other grounds in paragraph 162 -but leave  has	 notbeen granted to the Bank to raise any of them.Almost	a  month  and a half after limited  leave  was	thusgranted	 to the Bank the Federation filed its  petition	 forspecial	 leave	on  April  4,  1955,  and  it  applied	 forcondonation  of delay made in presenting the  petition.	  OnApril 9, 1956, this Court granted the employees' applicationfor  condonation of delay and gave special leave to them  toprefer their appeal.  This leave has not been limited to anyparticular  grounds.  Broadly stated these are the  relevantfacts which give rise to the three present appeals.Before	dealing	 with the merits of these  appeals  we	mustconsider  two preliminary objections raised by	the  learnedAttorney-General on behalf of the employees.  He has claimedthat if these objections are upheld the Bank's appeals wouldhave  to  be  dismissed and the	 employees'  appeal  allowedwithout	 considering the merits of the orders under  appeal.In  pressing  these objections he urged that  the  questionsraised	were  of  considerable importance,  and,  though  heconceded that some aspects of the matter were covered by theprevious decisions of this Court, he requested us to examinethe  whole question afresh once more.  We would	 accordinglydeal with these contentions at some length.The first contention is that as a result of the decision  ofthis  Court in the appeal preferred by the Bank against	 theinterlocutary judgment of the appellate tribunal, the  wholeof  the	 enquiry held by the said tribunal pursuant  to	 thesaid  interlocutary  judgment is  invalid  and	infructuous.This Court has held that the dismissal of the 150  employeesis illegal having824regard	to  the	 provisions  of s. 33 of  the  Act;  if	 thedismissal is illegal it is void and inoperative and as	suchit  cannot  be said to have terminated the  relationship  ofmaster	and  servant  between the Bank	and  its  employees.Despite the said order of dismissal the employees  continuedto  be	in the employment of the, Bank and are	entitled  toreinstatement  without	any further enquiry.   That,  it  issaid, is the effect of the Bank's failure to comply with theprovisions of s. 33.It is next contended that the Bank does not dispute the factthat  it had held no enquiry into the alleged misconduct  ofits  employees	before	it passed the  impugned:  orders  ofdismissal  against them.  It is well established  that	evenwhere  an employer is justified in terminating the  servicesof his employees he is bound to give them a charge-sheet andhold a proper enquiry at which they would have, a chance  tomeet the said charge-sheet.  This requirement is universallytreated as,consistent with natural justice and fairplay	 andsince the Bank has not complied with it the impugned  ordersof dismissal are wholly invalid for this additional  reason;and  the  result  again would be that the  said	 orders	 areinoperative  and  void	and the employees  are	entitled  toreinstatement as a matter of course.In support of this argument reliance has been placed on	 thedecision  of  the  Privy Council in the	 case  of  The	HighCommissioner  for India and High Commissioner  for  Pakistanand  I.M. Lall (1).  This decision holds that the  order  ofdismissal  passed  against a person who is a member  of	 theCivil  Service of the Crown in India without complying	withthe   mandatory	 relevant  provisions  of  s.  240  of	 theGovernment of India Act,  1935, is void and inoperative, andthat the Civil Servant against whom such an order is  passedis  entitled to a declaration that he remained a  member  ofthe  Indian Civil Service at the date of the institution  ofthe suit in which he challenged the validity of the impugnedorder.	 Similarly in Khem Chand v. The Union  of  India(2),this  Court  has  held that an	order  of  dismissal  passedagainst	 a public servant specified in Art.  311(a)with	 outcomplying with the mandatory(1) 75 1. A. 225.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 1080.825provisions  of	Art.  311 (2) is void and  that	 the  publicservant	 sought	 to be dismissed by such  an  invalid  ordercontinued  to be a member of the service at the date of	 theinstitution  of	 the  suit.  It is in  the  light  of  thesedecisions that the learned Attorney-General asks us to	holdthat  the  relationship between the Bank and  its  employeesremains wholly unaffected by the' orders of dismissal passedby the Bank against them; and so, as soon as the orders	 areheld to be void nothing more remains to be done but to	makea declaration about the the continuance of the	relationshipof  master  and servant between the parties  and  to  directreinstatement.	Thus presented the argument no doubt appearsprima facie to be attractive; but in our opinion, a  carefulexamination  of the relevant sections of the Act shows	thatit is not valid.The three sections of the Act which are relevant are ss. 33,33A and 10.  Let us first consider s. 33.  This section	 hasundergone several changes but we are concerned with it as itstood  in  1951.   It provides inter alia  that	 during	 thependency of any proceedings before a tribunal in respect  ofany  industrial	 dispute  no  employer	shall  discharge  orpunish,	 whether  by  dismissal or  otherwise,	any  workmanconcerned  in such dispute save with the express  permissionin  writing of the tribunal.  It is clear that in  cases  towhich  this  section applies a ban has been imposed  on	 thepower  of the employer to dismiss his employees	 -save	withthe  express  permission in writing of the  ,tribunal.	 Theobject	of  the	 Legislature in	 enacting  this	 section  isobvious.  By imposing the ban s. 33 attempts to provide	 forthe  continuance and termination of the pending	 proceedingsin  a  peaceful	 atmosphere undisturbed	 by  any  causes  offriction  between  the	employer  and  his  employees.	  Insubstance it. insists upon the maintenance of the status quopending	 the disposal of the industrial dispute between	 theparties; nevertheless it recognises that occasions may arisewhen  the  employer  may  be  justified	 in  discharging  orpunishing  by dismissal his employees; and so it allows	 theemployer  to take such action subject to the condition	thatbefore doing so he must obtain the826express	 permission in writing of the tribunal.	 It is	truethat the ban is imposed in terms which are mandatory and  s.31(1) makes the contravention of the provisions of s. 33  anoffence punishable as prescribed therein.  But the  questionwhich calls for our decision is: What is the effect of	suchcontravention  on  the decision of  the	 industrial  disputearising from it ?Where  an  application	is  made by  the  employer  for	 therequisite  permission  under s. 33 the jurisdiction  of	 thetribunal in dealing with such an application is limited.  Ithas to consider whether a prima facie case has been made outby  the	 employer  for	the dismissal  of  the	employee  inquestion.   If the employer has held a proper  enquiry	intothe  alleged misconduct of the employee, and if it does	 notappear	that the proposed dismissal of the employee  amountsto victimisation or an unfair labour practice, the  tribunalhas to limit its enquiry only to the question as to  whethera  prima  facie	 case has been made out or  not.   In  theseproceedings  it	 is  not open to the  tribunal	to  considerwhether	 the order proposed to be passed by the employer  isproper	or  adequate  or  whether it errs  on  the  side  ofexcessive  severity; nor can the tribunal grant	 permission,subject to certain conditions, which it may deem to be fair.It  has	 merely to consider the prima facie  aspect  of	 thematter	and  either  grant  the	 permission  or	 refuse	  itaccording  as it holds that a prima facie case is or is	 notmade out by the employer.But it is significant that even if the requisite  permissionis granted to the employer under s. 33 that would not be theend  of the matter.  It is not as if the permission  grantedunder  s.  33 validates the order of dismissal.	  It  merelyremoves	 the  ban;  and	 so the validity  of  the  order  ofdismissal  still  can be, and often is,	 challenged  by	 theunion by raising an industrial dispute in that behalf.	 Theeffect	of compliance with the provisions of s. 33  is	thussubstantially  different from the effect of compliance	withs. 240 of the Government of India Act, 1935, or Art.  311(2)of  the	 Constitution.	In the latter classes of  cases,  anorder of dismissal passed after duly complying with the827relevant  statutory provisions is final and its validity  orpropriety  is no longer open to dispute; but in the case  ofs. 33 the removal -of the ban merely enables the employer tomake  an  order of dismissal and thus  avoid  incurring	 thepenalty	 imposed by s. 31(1).  But if an industrial  disputeis  raised  on	such a dismissal, the,	order  of  dismissalpassed	even with the requiste permission obtained under  s.33 has to face the scrutiny of the tribunal.The decisions of this Court show that this position is	wellestablished.   In  Atherton West & Co. Ltd.  v.	 Suti  MillsMazdoor Union (1) this Court was dealing with the provisionsof  cl.	 23 of the relevant U.	P.  Government	notificationwhich  is similar to the provisions of s. 33 of the Act.   "The  enquiry  to be conducted by the  Regional	ConciliationOfficer	 under the said clause ", observed Bhagwati,  J.,  "was not an enquiry into an industrial dispute as to the non-employment  of	workmen who was sought to be  discharged  ordismissed which industrial dispute would only arise after anemployer,  his agent or manager discharged or dismissed	 theworkman	 in accordance with the written permission  obtainedfrom  the officer concerned.  The only effect  of  obtainingpermission from the officer concerned was to remove the	 banimposed on the employer.  But the order of dismissal  passedafter  obtaining the requisite permission can  still  becomethe subject-matter of an industrial dispute under s. 2(k) ofthe  Act  and the workman who has been	dismissed  would  beentitled  to  have the industrial dispute  referred  to	 theappropriate authority.	"In The Automobile Products of India, Ltd. v. Rukmaji Bala  &Ors.  (2),  this Court was dealing with	 a  similar  problemposed  by the provisions of s. 22 of Act 48 of 1950, and  s.33  of the Act.	 Dealing with the effect of  these  sectionsthis Court held that the object of s. 33 was to protect	 theworkmen	 against  the victimisation by the employer  and  toensure the termination of the proceedings in connection withthe  industrial	 disputes in a	peaceful  atmosphere.	Thatbeing so, all that the tribunal, exercising its jurisdictionunder s. 33, is(1) [1953] S.C.R. 780,(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1241.828required to do is to grant or withhold the permission,	thatis  to	say, either- to lift or to maintain the	 ban.	Thissection	 does  not  confer any power  on  the  tribunal	 'toadjudicate upon any other dispute or to impose conditions asa prerequisite for granting the permission asked for by	 theemployer.  The same view has been ,expressed in Lakshmi DeviSugar Mills Ltd. v. Pt.	 Ram Sarup (1).In cases where an industrial dispute is raised on the groundof  dismissal  and  it	is  referred  to  the  tribunal	 foradjudication,-the  tribunal naturally wants to know  whetherthe  impugned dismissal was preceded by a proper enquiry  ornot.   Where  such  a  proper  enquiry	has  been  held	  inaccordance  with  the provisions of  the  relevant  standingorders	and it does not appear that the employer was  guiltyof  victimisation  or  any  unfair  labour  practice,	thattribunal  is  generally	 reluctant  to	interfere  with	 theimpugned  order.  The limits of the tribunal's	jurisdictionin dealing with such industrial disputes have been  recentlyconsidered  by	this Court in the -Indian Iron &  Steel	 Co.Ltd.  v.  Their Workmen (2 ) and it has been held  that	 thepowers of the tribunal to interfere with cases of  dismissalare  not  unlimited because the tribunal does not act  as  acourt of appeal and substitute its own judgment for that  ofthe  management.  In this judgment this Court has  indicatedthe  classes  of  cases	 in  which  the	 tribunal  would  bejustified   in	interfering  with  the	impugned  order	  ofdismissal.  It would and should interfere when there is wantof good faith, when there is victimisation or unfair  labourpractice,  when	 the management has been guilty of  a  basicerror  or violation of the principle of natural justice,  orwhen,  on  the materials, the finding of the  management  iscompletely  baseless  or perverse.  The same view  has	beenagain  expressed by this Court in O. McKenzie &	 Co.,  Ltd.,and Its Workmen (3).There  is  another principle which has to be borne  in	mindwhen  the tribunal deals with an industrial dispute  arisingfrom the dismissal of an employee.  We have already  pointedout that before an employer can(1) [1956] S.C.R. 916.		(2) [1958] S.C.R. 667.(3)  (1959) 1 L.L.J. 285.829dismiss	 his employee he has to hold a proper  enquiry	intothe  alleged  misconduct of the employee and  that  such  anenquiry	 must  always begin with the supply  of	 a  specificcharge-sheet to the employee.  In Lakshmi Devi Sugar  Mills,Ltd.  (1),  it has been held by this Court that	 in  dealingwith the merits of the dismissal of an employee the employerwould  be confined to the' charge-sheet given by him to	 hisemployee  when	an enquiry was held into  his  conduct.	  Itwould not be open to the employer to add any further chargesagainst	 the  employee	and  the  case	would  have  to	  beconsidered on the original charge-sheet as it was framed. Itis significant that in the case of Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills,Ltd.  (1),  this Court was apparently inclined to  take	 theview  that the additional acts of insubordination  on  whichthe appellant-mills wanted to rely would have justified	 theemployee's  dismissal;	but even so it was  not	 allowed  toraise that plea because the said plea had not been  includedin  the original charge-sheet.	It, therefore, follows	thatwhere  a  proper enquiry has been held by the  employer	 andfindings   are	recorded  against  the	employee  that	 theprinciples  laid  down by this Court in the case  of  IndianIron  &	 Steel	Co.  Ltd. (2)would  be	applicable;  and  inapplying the said principles the employer would be  confinedto  the grounds set out by him in his  charge-sheet  againstthe employee.This position is not disputed before us.  Indeed the learnedAttorney-General contends that the principles applicable  tothe  decision  of  an industrial dispute  arising  from	 thedismissal  of  an employee to which we	have  just  referredserve	to  emphasise  the  obligatory	character   of	 thelimitation  imposed on the employer by s. 33 of the Act	 andby the requirements of	 natural    justice    that    everydismissal must be preceded    by  a proper  enquiry.   Wherethe ban imposed by s.	 33  of	 the  Act  has	been  defiedand/or	where a proper enquiry has not been held at all	 theaction	of the employer in dismissing his employee  must  betreated as void and inoperative.  Such a case(1) [1956] S.C.R. 916.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 667,105830stands	outside the principles which we have  discussed,  sofar.   That  in brief is the main contention raised  by	 theemployees.This  contention  is,  however, untenable  in  view  of	 thedecisions of this Court where the provisions of s.     33Ahave been construed and considered, and so we	  must	 nowturn to s. 33A.	 This section was inserted in	  the Act in1950.	Before it was enacted the only remedy  available  tothe  employees against the breach of s. 33 was to  raise  anindustrial   dispute  in  that	behalf	and  to	  move	 theappropriate Government for its reference to the adjudicationof  a  tribunal	 under s. 10 of the Act.   The	trade  unionmovement in the country complained that the remedy of askingfor  a	reference under s. 10 involved delay  and  left	 theredress	 of the grievance of the employees entirely  in	 thediscretion  of the appropriate Government; because  even  incases  of contravention of s. 33 the appropriate  Governmentwas  not bound to refer the dispute  under s. 10.   That  iswhy  s. 33A was enacted for making a special  provision	 foradjudication as to whether s. 33 has been contravened.	Thissection enables an employee aggrieved by such  contraventionto make a complaint in writing 'in the prescribed manner  tothe tribunal and it adds that on, receipt of such  complaintthe tribunal shall adjudicate upon it as if it is a  disputereferred to it in accordance with the provisions of the Act.It  also  requires the tribunal to submit its award  to	 theappropriate  Government and the provisions of the Act  shallthen apply to the said award.  It would thus be noticed thatby this section an employee aggrieved by a wrongful order ofdismissal  passed against him in contravention of s.  33  isgiven  a  right	 to  move the tribunal	in  redress  of	 hisgrievance  without having to take recourse to s. 10  of	 theAct.After this section was thus enacted the scope of the enquirycontemplated by it became the subject matter of	 controversybetween	 the  employers and the employees.  This  Court	 badoccasion  to deal with this controversy in the case  of	 theAutomobile Products of India Ltd. (1).	Das, J., as he	thenwas, who delivered(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1241.831the  judgment of the Court construed s. 33A of the  Act	 andthe corresponding s. 23 of Act 48 of 1950, which applied  tothe  Labour  Appellate	Tribunal  then	in  existence,	 andobserved that " the scheme of the section clearly  indicatesthat  the  authority  to whom the complaint is	made  is  todecide	 both	the  issues,  viz.,  (1)   the	 effect	  ofcontravention, and (2) the merits of the act or order of theemployer  ".  "	 The  provision	 in  the  section  that	 thecomplaint shall be dealt with by the tribunal as if it	werea  dispute  referred to or pending before it  quite  clearlyindicates ", said the learned Judge, "that the	jurisdictionof  the	 authority is not only to decide whether  there	 hasbeen  a	 failure on the part of the employer to	 obtain	 thepermission of the authority before taking action but also togo  into the merits of the complaint and  grant	 appropriatereliefs (p. 1253) ". It was urged before this Court that  inholding an enquiry under s. 33A the tribunal's duty was onlyto find out whether there had been a contravention of s. 33,and if it found that there was Such a contravention to	makea  declaration	to that effect.	 The argument  was  that  nofurther	 question  can or should be considered	in  such  asenquiry.  This contention was, however, rejected.The same question was raised before this Court in  EquitableCoal  Co. Ltd. v. Algu Singh (1) and following the  previousdecision  of  this  Court  in the  case	 of  the  AutomobileProducts  of India Ltd. (2) it was held that in	 an  enquiryunder s. 23 two questions fall to be considered: Is the factof contravention of the provisions of s. 22 proved ? If yes,is  the	 order passed by the employer against  the  employeejustified  on the merits ?  Thus there can be no doubt	thatin an enquiry under s. 33A the employee would not succeed inobtaining  an  order  of  reinstatement	 merely	 by  provingcontravention of s. 33 by the employer.	 After such  contra-vention- is proved it would still be open to the employer tojustify	 the  impugned dismissal on the merits.	 That  is  apart  of  the  dispute which the tribunal  has	to  considerbecause the complaint made by the employee is treated as  anindustrial dispute and all the relevant(1) A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 761.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1241.832aspects	 of the said dispute fall to be considered under  3.33A.   Therefore, we cannot accede to the argument that	 theenquiry	 under s. 33A is confined only to the  determinationof  the question as to whether the alleged contravention  bythe  employer of the provisions of s. 33 has been proved  ornot.In  the present case the impugned orders of  dismissal	havegiven rise to an industrial dispute which has been  referredto  the tribunal by the appropriate Government under s.	 10.There can be no doubt that if under a complaint filed  unders. 33A a tribunal has to deal not only with the question  ofcontravention  but  also  with the merits of  the  order  ofdismissal,  the	 position  cannot be any  different  when  areference is made to the tribunal like the present under  s.10.  What is true about the scope of enquiry under s. 33A isa fortiori true in the case of an enquiry under s. 10.	Whatis  referred to the tribunal under s. 10 is  the  industrialdispute	 between  the Bank and its employees.	The  allegedcontravention  by the Bank of s. 33 is no doubt one  of	 thepoints which the tribunal has to decide; but the decision onthis  question does not conclude the enquiry.  The  tribunalwould  have also to consider whether the impugned orders  ofdismissal are otherwise justified; and whether, in the lighto  the	relevant  circumstances of the	case,  an  order  ofreinstatement  should or should not be passed.	It  is	onlyafter all these aspects have been considered by the tribunalthat  it  can adequately deal with  the	 industrial  disputereferred to it and make an appropriate award.In this connection it would be relevant to remember that  indealing with industrial disputes arising out of dismissal ofemployees  the	tribunal  undoubtedly  has  jurisdiction  todirect	reinstatement in proper cases.	The  question  aboutthe  jurisdiction  of  an  industrial  tribunal	 to   directreinstatement  was  raised  as early  as  1949,	 before	 theFederal	 Coort	in Western India Automobile  Association  v.Industrial  Tribunal, Bombay (1).  In this case the  FederalCourt  considered  the larger question about the  powers  ofindustrial tribunals in(1)  [1949] F.C.R. 321.833all  its aspects and rejected the argument of  the  employerthat  to invest the tribunal with jurisdiction to order	 re-employment amounts to giving it authority to make a contractbetween	 two persons when one of them is unwilling to  enterinto  a contract of employment at all.	" This	argument  ",observed  Mahajan, J., as he then was, "overlooks  the	factthat when dispute arises about the employment of a person atthe  instance of a trade union or a trade union	 objects  tothe  employment	 of  a certain	person,	 the  definition  ofindustrial dispute would cover both those cases.  In each ofthose  cases, although the employer may be unwilling  to  doso, there will be jurisdiction in the tribunal to direct theemployment  or non-employment of the person by the  employer". The learned Judge also added that " the disputes of	thischaracter being covered by the definition of the  expression'industrial  disputes, ' there appears no logical ground  toexclude	 an award of reinstatement from the jurisdiction  ofthe industrial tribunal." Since this judgment was pronouncedthe   authority	 of  the  industrial  tribunals	 to   directreinstatement	in   appropriate  cases	  has	never	beenquestioned.In  exercising its jurisdiction to direct  reinstatement  ofdismissed  employees  industrial  tribunals  have  indicatedcertain	 general considerations for their own guidance.	  Inthe case of a wrongful dismissal the normal rule adopted  inindustrial  adjudication  is that  reinstatement  should  beordered.   "But",  observed  the Full Bench  of	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal in Buckingham & Carnatic Mills Ltd.,	 AndTheir Workmen (1), " in so ordering the tribunal is expectedto be inspired by a sense of fair play towards the  employeeon  the	 one hand and considerations of	 discipline  in	 theconcern on the other.  The past record of the employee,	 thenature of his alleged present lapse and the ground on  whichthe  order of the management is set aside are also  relevantfactors	 for consideration." It is obvious that no hard	 andfast  rule  can be laid down in dealing with  this  problem.Each  case  must be considered on its own  merits,  and,  inreaching the(1)  [1951] 11 L.L.J.314.834final  decision	 an attempt must be made  to  reconcile	 theconflicting  claims made by the employee and  the  employer.The  employee is entitled to security of service and  shouldbe protected against wrongful dismissals, and so the  normalrule would be reinstatement in such cases.  Nevertheless  inunusual	 or  exceptional  cases the  tribunal  may  have  toconsider whether, in the interest of the industry itself, itwould be desirable or expedient not to direct reinstatement.As  in	many  other matters arising  before  the  industrialcourts	for  their  decision this question also	 has  to  bedecided	 after	balancing the relevant factors	and  withoutadopting  any legalistic or doctrinaire approach.   No	suchconsiderations	can  be	 relevant in cases  where  in  civilcourts	the  validity  of dismissals is	 challenged  on	 theground	of non-compliance with s. 240 of the  Government  ofIndia Act, 1935 or Art. 311(2) of the Constitution.There is one more point which still remains to be consideredand that is the effect of the Bank's default it not  holdingan  enquiry in the present case.  If the Bank has  not	heldany enquiry it cannot obviously contend before the  tribunalthat it has bona fide exercised the managerial functions andauthority  in passing the orders of dismissal and  that	 thetribunal  should be slow to interfere with the said  orders.It  is	true  as we have already pointed  out  that  if	 theemployer holds a proper enquiry, makes a finding in  respectof the alleged misconduct of the employee and then passes anorder  of dismissal the tribunal would be glow to  interferewith  such  an	order and would	 exercise  its	jurisdictionwithin	the limits prescribed by this Court in The  case  ofIndian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. (1).But  it follows that if no enquiry has in fact been held  bythe  employer;	the issue about the merits of  the  impugnedorder  of dismissal is at large before the tribunal and,  onthe  evidence adduced before it, the tribunal has to  decidefor itself whether the misconduct alleged is 'roved, and  ifyes, what would be proper order to make.  In such a case thepoint  about the exercise of managerial functions  does	 notarise at(3)  [1958] S.C.R. 667,835all.  This answers the argument which Mr. Sanyal has  raisedbefore us in his appeal.Mr. Sanyal, however, seeks to derive support to his argumentfrom  the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal  in	 TheMadras	Electric  Tramways  (1904)  Ltd.  Madras  And  TheirWorkers (1).  In that case the order of reinstatement passedby  the	 tribunal was reversed in appeal  by  the  appellatetribunal  which	 observed  that in  dealing  with  cases  ofdismissal where the management had acted bona fide and	withknowledge and experience of the problems which confronted inthe daily work of the concern it should be considered to  bewell qualified to judge what sentence would be	appropriate,and  the sentence imposed by the management should  normallystand  subject	to  the qualification that it  must  not  beunduly	severe.	  It  is  obvious  that	 in  that  case	 themanagement had held a proper enquiry and the question  whicharose	for  decision  was  what  are  the  limits  of	 thejurisdiction  of the tribunal in dealing with an  industrialdispute	 arising  from an order of dismissal  passed  by  anemployer  after	 holding a proper enquiry.   The  principlesapplicable  to such a case have been already  considered  byus;  but  they can have no application to the  present	casewhere  the employer has held no enquiry at all.	  Therefore,this decision on which Mr. Sanyal relies is irrelevant.The  position then is that the effect of the double  defaultcommitted by the employer is not to limit the enquiry to thedecision  of the sole question as to the commission  of	 thesaid   default,	 and  so,  despite  the	 said  default	 thesubsequent  enquiry held by the appellate tribunal  pursuantto its interlocutory judgment was proper and legal.  The twopreliminary    objections    raised    by    the     learnedAttorney_General must, therefore, fail.Let  us	 now  deal with the two appeals filed  by  the	Bank(Civil	Appeals Nos. 519 and 520 of 1958).  We have  alreadyindicated that in dealing with these appeals we have to bearin mind the limitations imposed by the nature of the limitedleave granted to(1)  (1951) 11 L L. J. 204.836the Bank; it is only the grounds specifically covered by theleave  which fall to be considered, and even  these  groundswill  necessarily have to be dealt with in the light of	 thefindings  already recorded by the appellate  tribunal  whichare  no	 longer open to challenge.  The	 subsequent  enquiryheld  by the appellate tribunal was limited to the  questionas  to	whether	 the Bank was able  to	prove  any  specificcircumstances which disentitled the employees from  claimingreinstatement.	 In  other  words, the object  of  the	saidenquiry	 was  to  ascertain  the  nature  of  the  "positiveobjections"  which  the Bank had against each one  of  them.The  rest of the matters in dispute between the parties	 areconcluded  by  the other findings which have  become  final.Considered in the light of these limitations the grounds  onwhich  leave  has  been granted to the Bank  must  first  beexamined.   A  bare perusal of the said grounds	 would	showthat  some  of	them  are  vague  and  they  are  urged	  onassumptions  of	 fact  which run  counter  to  the  findingsrecorded by the appellate tribunal.  That is why when  thoseappeals were urged before us, Mr. Anand and Mr. Sanyal	haverecast	their  contentions  within the	frame,-work  of	 thegrounds in respect of which leave has been granted and	haveurged the following points before us: (1) that participationin  a  pen-down	 strike	 is itself an  activity	 of  such  asubversive character that it disqualifies the employees	 whotook  part in it from claiming the relief of  reinstatement,(2)  that  the	publication and	 circulation  of  subversivedocuments was the result of a concerted plan and represent acollective activity of all the strikers and as such all	 theemployees before us should be held responsible for it and onthis  ground  reinstatement should be refused to  them,	 (3)that  the  finding recorded by the appellate  tribunal	thatonly  14 persons were directly and actively  concerned	withthe preparation and publication of the subversive  documentsis  opposed to the weight of evidence and is  perverse,	 (4)that the appellate tribunal erred in law in not taking	intoaccount the fact that after the 150 employees were dismissedthe   Bank  has	 engaged  fresh	 hands	and  the  order	  ofreinstatement would, therefore, be unjust and837unfair,	 and  (5) that the appellate tribunal  was  also  inerror  in not taking into account the fact that some of	 theemployees have in the meanwhile taken employment  elsewhere.It  is these five grounds which we are asked to consider  bythe Bank in its present appeals.Before dealing with these contentions we would like to	makeone  general observation.  Though not in the, same form,  insubstance these contentions were raised before the appellatetribunal in support of the plea that the dismissed employeesshould	not  be reinstated.  As we have	 already  emphasizedwhether	 or not reinstatement should be ordered in cases  ofwrongful  or  illegal dismissals is normally a	question  offact and in deciding it several relevant factors have to  beborne  in mind.	 If the appellate tribunal applied its	mindto those relevant factors and came to the conclusion that 14employees  did	not  deserve  to  be  reinstated  while	 theremaining  136 did, we would be reluctant to interfere	withthe  said order under Art. 136 unless it is shown  that	 theorder  suffers	from  an error which  raises  a	 general  orsubstantial question of law.The first contention raised by the Bank is in regard to	 theconduct of the employees in entering upon a pen-down  strikeand  its  effect  on their  claim  for	reinstatement.	 Thefinding	 of the tribunal on this point is that	the  personswho took part in the pen-down strike not only ceased to workbut continued to occupy their seats.  A tumultuous crowd hadgathered  outside the premises of the Bank and some  personsin the crowd were shouting slogans in support of the strike.The  strikers  had been definitely instructed  to  stick  totheir  seats  until  the police	 intervened  and  threatenedarrest	or  until  orders of discharge	or  suspension	wereserved	on them.  There has been some argument before us  asto the number of persons who actually took part in this kindof  pen-down strike.  For the Bank Mr. Anand has urged	thatthe finding, of the appellate tribunal suggests that most ofthe  strikers  took part in this strike; and in	 any  event,according  to him, at least 52 persons took part in it.	  Hehas  filed in this Court a list of these 52  employees.	  Onthe other hand,106838the  learned  Attorney-General	has contended  that  on	 thefindings recorded by the appellate tribunal not more than 10persons	 can be said to have taken part in it.	 In  dealingwith  the present contention of the Bank we are prepared  toassume	that most of the strikers participated in  the	pen-down or sit-down strike as generally found by the tribunal.Is  this pen-down strike a strike within s. 2(q) of the	 Actor not?	 S. 2(q) defines a strike as meaning a cessation  ofwork by a body of persons employed in any industry acting incombination,  or a concerted refusal, or a refusal  under  acommon	understanding, of any number of persons who  are  orhave  been  so	employed to continue to work  or  to  acceptemployment.   It was conceded before the appellate  tribunalthat  a	 pen-down strike falls within this  definition,	 andthis  position is not seriously disputed before	 us  either.On  a plain and grammatical construction of this  definitionit  would  be difficult to exclude a  strike  where  workmenenter  the premises of their employment and refuse  to	taketheir  tools  in hand and start their usual  work.   Refusalunder  common understanding to continue to work is a  strikeand  if	 in  pursuance	of  such  common  understanding	 theemployees  entered the premises of the Bank and	 refused  totake  their  pens in their hands that would no	doubt  be  astrike	under  s. 2(q).	 The main grievance of the  Bank  isthat these employees not only sat in their places and refus-ed  to work but they would not vacate their seats when	theywere  asked  to	 do so by  their  superior  officers.	Suchconduct may introduce an element of insubordination but thatis a different matter.	In our opinion, therefore, the	pen-down  strike  in  which the employees  participated  in	 thepresent	 case  cannot be said to be outside s. 2(q)  of	 theAct.It was, however, urged that the entry of the strikers in thepremises  of  the  Bank amounted  to  civil  trespass.	 Theargument is that by virtue of their employment the employeeshad  a	licence to enter the premises of the Bank  but	thislicence	 is subject to the condition that the employees	 arewilling to carry out their obligation of the contract and dotheir allotted work during the,839office hours.  If the employees had decided not to work theywere  not entitled to the licence in question and  so  theirentry into the Bank itself constituted a civil trespass.  Ontheir	hand,	the  employees	contend	 that	during	 thecontinuance  of their employment they are entitled to  enterthe  premises of the Bank and having thus entered they	werealso  entitled to exercise their right of going	 on  strike.They  entered  the  premises as employees of  the  Bank	 andhaving	taken  their  seats they exercised  their  right  ofstriking  work.	 If the Bank had suspended the employees  itwould  have  been  another  matter;  but  so  long  as	 therelationship  of master and servant continued the  employeescould not be said to have committed civil trespass when theyentered the premises at the time.In  support  of	 its  case  the	 Bank  has  relied  on	 theproposition that " even if a person has a right of entry  onthe  land  of another for a specific purpose  he  commits  atrespass  if  he enters for any other purpose or  under	 anyother  claim or title apart from that under which  he  mightlawfully  enter.  As an illustration of this proposition  itis  stated  that if a person having a licence for  entry  onland  enters the land not by virtue of the said licence	 butin  order  to  contest the licensor's title,  he  commits  atrespass  " (1).  " But this proposition is subject  to	 theexception that if a person enters for a lawful purpose he isnot  a	trespasser  unless  the case is	 one  to  which	 thedoctrine  of  trespass	ab initio applies  "  (2).   So	 thedecision of this technical point would depend on whether  ornot the employees are given a limited or conditional licenceto enter the premises and that if they have decided to go onstrike the said conditional or limited licence is no  longeravailable to them.  We do not think it necessary to considerthis  academic question in the present proceedings  because,in  our opinion, the appellate tribunal was obviously  rightin  holding that even if civil trespass was involved in	 theconduct	 of the employees that by itself cannot justify	 therejection of their claim for reinstatement.  Incidentally wemay add that even(1)  Salmond on Torts, 12th Ed., p. 158.(2)  Salmond on Torts, 12th Ed., p. 159.840in  America  "	the  simple  act  of  trespassing  upon	 theemployer's  property is no bar to reinstatement nor  is	 theact which at most a civil tort " (1).Does  the conduct of the strikers as found by the  appellatetribunal  constitute  criminal trespass unders. 441  of	 theIndian Penal Code?That	is the next point which calls  fordecision.It  is	 argued that the conduct of  the  employeesamountsto  criminal trespass which is an offence  and  assuchthose  who	committed criminal trespass  would  not	 beentitled  to  reinstatement.   According  to  the  Bank	 theemployees  committed the criminal trespass inasmuch as	theyeither	 entered  unlawfully  or  having  lawfully   enteredcontinued to remain there unlawfully with intent thereby  toinsult	or  annoy  their superior  officers.   It  would  benoticed that there are two essential ingredients which	mustbe  established	 before	 criminal  trespass  can  be  provedagainst	 the employees.	 Even if we assume that the  employ-ees'  entry  in	 the premises was  unlawful  or	 that  theircontinuance in the premises became unlawful, it is difficultto appreciate the argument that the said entry was made withintent	to insult or annoy the superior officers.  The	soleintention  of the strikers obviously was to put pressure  onthe  Bank  to concede their demands.  Even if  the  strikersmight  have  known that the strike may annoy or	 insult	 theBank's officers it is difficult to, hold that such knowledgewould  necessarily  lead to the inference of  the  requisiteintention.   In every case where the impugned  entry  causesannoyance or insult it cannot be said to be actuated by	 theintention to cause the said result.  The distinction betweenknowledge and intention is quite clear, and that distinctionmust  be  borne in mind in deciding whether or	not  in	 thepresent	 case  the strikers were actuated by  the  requisiteintention.   The  said intention has always to	be  gatheredfrom  the circumstances of the case and it may be  that	 thenecessary or inevitable consequence of the impugned act	 maybe  one	 relevant  circumstance.  But it  is  impossible  toaccede	to the argument that the likely consequence  of	 theact and its possible knowledge(1)  Ludwig   Teller's	 "Labor	 Disputes   and	  CollectiveBargaining" Vol.  11, p.855841must necessarily import a corresponding intention.  We thinkit  is	unnecessary to elaborate this point; we	 would	onlylike to add that the decision of the Patna High Court, in T.H. Bird v. King-Emperor (1) on which reliance was placed  bythe  Bank is wholly inconsistent with the contention  raisedby  it.	 Thus our conclusion is that the Bank has failed  toprove  that  the  conduct of the strikers as  found  by	 theappellate tribunal amounted to criminal trespass under s.441of the Code.In  resisting the employees' claim for reinstatement on	 theground that participation in a pendown strike creates a	 baragainst	 such  a claim the Bank has strongly relied  on	 thedecision  of the Supreme Court of America in National  LaborRelations  Board v. Fansteel  Metallurgical  Corporation(2).Both  Mr.  Anand  and Mr. Sanyal have  contended  that	thisdecision   is	an  authority  for  the	  proposition	thatparticipation  in pen-down strikes necessarily	disqualifiesthe strikers from claiming reinstatement.  It is, therefore,necessary to examine this case carefully.  In this case, theNational   Labor   Relations   Board   bad   directed	 thereinstatement  of  participants in a sit-down  strike  whom,upon  their  refusal  to leave	the  employer's	 plant,	 theemployer declared to be discharged.  The Board had held thatdespite	 the  illegal  strike and the  consequent  order  ofdischarge the status of the employees continued by virtue ofthe definition of the term " employee " in s. 2, sub-s.	 (3)of the National Labor Relations Act.  It had also taken	 theview that it had jurisdiction to direct reinstatement of thesaid employees under s. 10(c) of the said act with a view toeffectuate the policies of the Act.  Both these	 conclusionswere  reversed by the Supreme Court by a majority  judgment.According  to the majority view, when the  Congress  enactedthe  National  Labor Relations Act it " did  not  intend  tocompel	 employers  to	retain	persons	 in   their   employregardless of their unlawful conduct,-to invest those who goon  strike  with  an immunity from  discharge  for  acts  oftrespass or violence against the employer's property,  whichthey(1) (1934) I.L.R. XIII Pat. 268.(2) 306 U.S. 238; 83 Law.  Ed. 627.842would  not have enjoyed had they remained at work."  It	 wasalso  held that " the Congress was intent upon	,.protectionof   employees'	 right	to  self-organisation  and  to	 theselection  of  representatives	of their  own  choosing	 forcollective  bargaining without restraint or coercion.  "  Onthe facts the conclusion of the majority was that the strikewas  illegal  in its inception and  prosecution.   This	 wasreally not the exercise of the right to strike to which	 theAct referred.  It was an illegal seizure of the building  inorder  to  prevent  their use by the employer  in  a  lawfulmanner,	 and thus by acts of force and violence	 compel	 theemployer  to submit.  The conclusion, therfore, was that  toprovide for the reinstatement or re-employment of  employeesguilty	of  the acts which even according to the  Board	 hadbeen  committed would not only not effectuate any policy  ofthe  Act but would directly tend to make abortive  its	planfor peaceable procedure.  Mr. Justice Reed, who delivered  adissenting judgment thought that both labour and  managementhad  erred grievously in their respective conduct and so  itwould  not be unreasonable to restore both to  their  formerstatus.	  That	is why he was not prepared  to	reverse	 theorder  of  reinstatement  passed by  the  Board.   The	Banknaturally  relies upon the majority decision in	 support  ofits  contention that its employees who participated  in	 thepen-down strike are not entitled to reinstatement.In  considering	 the question as to  whether  the  principleunderlying  the	 majority decision should be, applied  to  apen-down  strike in India it is necessary to  remember	thatthe  pen-down strike properly so-called is recognised  as  astrike under s. 2(q) of the Act and so it would not be	safeto  extend the principles of American decisions	 bearing  onthis  question	without a careful scrutiny of  the  relevantprovisions  of the American statute and the facts  on  whichthe  said  decisions are based.	 Let us	 then  consider	 thefacts on which the majority decision was based.	 It  appearsthat  an acrimonious dispute had been going on	between	 theCorporation and its employees for some time before  February17,1937 when the pen-down strike commenced. The	 Corporationwas not prepared to recognise the843outside	 union	and had employed a labor spy  to  engage  inespionage  within the union and continued the employment  ofthe said spy.  It also appears that the, super intendant  ofthe Corporation when requested to meet the deputation of theunion  required that the deputation should consist  only  ofemployees   of	five  years'  standing.	  Subsequently	 thesuperintendent'	 refused  to confer with  the  committee  inwhich  the outside Organisation had been included; and as  apunitive  measure he required the president of the union  towork  in  a room adjoining his office with  the	 purpose  ofkeeping	 him  away from the other workers.  It was  in	thisbackground of bitter relationship that the strike commenced.In the afternoon of February 17 the union committee  decidedupon a sit-down strike by taking over and holding two of therespondent's  key  buildings.  These were then	occupied  byabout  95 employees, as a result of which work in the  plantstopped.   In the evening the superintendent accompanied  bypolice	officials went to each of the building and  demandedthat  the men leave.  They, however, refused  whereupon	 therespondent's counsel who had accompanied the  superintendentannounced  in loud tone that all the men in the	 plant	weredischarged  for the seizure and detention of the  buildings.Even  so  the men continued to occupy  the  buildings  untilFebruary  26.	Their  fellow  members	brought	 them  food,blankets, stoves, cigarettes and other supplies.   Meanwhileon February 18, the respondent obtained from the state courtan  injunction requiring the men to surrender the  premises.The  men refused to obey the order and a writ of  attachmentfor  contempt was served on them on February 19.   When	 themen  refused to submit a pitched battle ensued and  the	 mensuccessfully  resisted the attempt by the sheriff  to  evictand  arrest them.  Efforts at mediation failed.	  Ultimatelyon  February  26,  the sheriff with An	increased  force  ofdeputies made a further attempt and this time, after anotherbattle,	 the men were ousted and placed under arrest.	Theywere subsequently prosecuted and most of them were fined andgiven jail sentence for violating844the  injunctions.   A bare statement of	 these	facts  wouldclearly	 bring	out the true character of  the	strike	withwhich  the Supreme Court was dealing.  It was not merely  anillegal	 but violent strike, ; it was a strike	which  beganwith the wrongful seizure of the employer's property and hisexclusion  from it; a strike accompanied by  violence  whichled  to	 pitched  battles  between  the	 strikers  and	 thesheriff's men; a strike continued by the strikers even afterthey  were  formally  discharged  from	the  employment	 andagainst an order of injunction by a competent court.  It  isdifficult  to  accede  to the  argument	 that  the  majoritydecision  in that case can be extended to the  facts  beforeus.  As Teller has observed " the strike in question can  bemore accurately defined as a strike in the traditional senseto  which is added the element of trespass of  the  strikersupon  the property of the employer ". (1) Therefore, in	 ouropinion,  this decision does not assist the Bank in  supportof its case that mere-participation in the illegal strike inthe  present  case  can by itself defeat the  claim  of	 theemployees for reinstatement.In  this  connection  we may point out	that,  according  toTeller the Fansteel decision marks " what is hoped to be  anend  of	 an unfortunate chapter in the history	of  Americanlabor  activity";  he  has added that  "  there	 is  danger,however,  in  viewing  the  sitdown  strike  solely  as	 thereflection of lawless labour leadership.  The causes of	 itsemergence  are	deeper.	 Indeed labour	has  contended	thatcapital	 and labor share equal responsibility for  its	riseand development.  No analysis of a sit-down strike can claima  broad  view of the subject, says labor,  without  a	fullmeasure	 of  consideration  of the  infamous  Mohawk  Valleymethods used by Remington-Rand to break strikes, nor to	 thefacts  elicited in the recent Rand-Bergoff trial  under	 theByrnes	Act........ The anarchy of law which  resulted	fromunlawful employer utilisation of instruments of violence andchicanery in disregard of law needed the sit-down(1)  Ludwig   Teller's	"Labour	 Disputes   and	  CollectiveBargaining", Vol 1, p. 311, s. 106.845strike	as an effective counterpoise " ; and so	 the  authorsignificantly  concludes  that " it is no  coincidence	thatstatistics show a precipitate drop in the prevalence of sit-down  strikes  immediately  upon validation  by	 the  UnitedStates	Supreme Court of the National Labor Relations  Act."It is in the light of this background that the Supreme Courthad been( called upon to decide the question of	 reinstatingemployees in the Fansteel case (1).The history of the trade union legislation in England  showsthat the trade union movement had to wage a long and  bitterstruggle  to secure recognition for the workmen's  right  toorganise themselves into unions and to exercise their  rightof  collective	bargaining if necessary by the	use  of	 theweapon	of  strikes.   In America a  similar  struggle	tookplace,	and, as we have just pointed out, it was  marked  byviolence on the part of both capital and labour, because theemployer's  theory of " hire and fire "	 offered  relentlessresistence  to	the workmen's claim to form  unions  and  toresort	to  strikes for trade union purposes.	In  WilliamsTruax  v. Michael Corrigan(2) Mr. Justice Brandeis,  in	 hisdissenting judgment, has given a, very illuminating  accountof  the history and progress of the trade union movement  inthe   United  States,  in  England  and	 the  Colonies.	   "Practically every change in the law ", observed Mr.  JusticeBrandeis,  " governing the relation of the employer and	 theemployees  must	 abridge  in some  respect  the	 liberty  orproperty  of one of the parties, if liberty and property  ismeasured by the standard of the law theretofore	 prevailing.If such changes are made by acts of the Legislature we	callthe  modification  an  exercise of  the	 police	 power,	 andalthough  the  change  may  involve  an	 interference	withexisting liberty or property of individuals, the statue willnot be declared a violation of the due process clause unlessthe   court   finds  that  interference	 is   arbitrary	  orunreasonable,  or that, considered as a means,	the  measurehas   no  real	or  substantial	 relation  of  cause  to   apermissible end".(1)  306 U.S. 238; 83 Law.  Ed. 627.(2)  66 Law.  Edn. 311 ; 257 U.S. 254.107846In that case the validity of the prohibition of Ariz.  CivilCode 1913, cl. 1464 against the interference ,.by injunctionbetween	 employers and employees in cases growing out  of  adispute	 concerning  terms or conditions of  employment	 waschallenged;  and the challenge was upheld by a	majority  ofthe  learned  -judges  who  took  the  view  that  the	saidprovision  was	contrary  to  the  14th	 Amendment  of	 theConstitution.	Holmes,	 Pitney, Clarke and  Brandeis,	JJ.,however,  dissented.  The main decision in that case is	 notof  direct assistance in the present appeals.  No doubt	 Mr.Anand  has attempted to contend that the acts of  which	 thestrikers  were held guilty in that case are similar  to	 theacts  alleged against the employees in the present  appeals;but  this argument would be relevant only if it is shown  bythe Bank that the specific subversive acts alleged have beencommitted  by  the specific individual employees.   To	thatpoint  we  will refer later on.	  Incidentally	the  presentdecision  is  of  some	importance  because  the  dissentingopinion	  delivered  by	 Mr.  Justice  Brandeis	  has	beensubsequently  treated as an authoritative exposition of	 theproblem of trade unionism and the history of its growth	 anddevelopment.Fortunately,  as  the Indian Trade Unions Act 1926,  (16  of1926), the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act	1946(20  of 1946), and the Industrial Disputes Act 1947  (14  of1947)  show, our Legislature has very wisely  benefitted  bythe  experiences  of other countries in the  matter  of	 thedevelopment   of   trade  union	 movement,  and	  has	madeprogressive,   just  and  fair	provisions   governing	 theimportant problem of industrial relationships, the formationof trade unions, and the settlement of industrial  disputes,It  can	 be  justly claimed that though	 we  have  witnessedcapital-labour	conflicts  in  our  country,  on  the  wholeneither	 party	has departed from the  pursuit	of  peacefulmethods,  and  both  parties submit  their  disputes  to  beresolved  in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	  Indealing with industrial disputes like the present, we  must,therefore,   primarily	consider  the	relevant   statutoryprovisions and the material Indian decisions,847Thus  considered the conclusion is inevitable that the	pen-down  strike  is a strike within s. 2(q) and so	 per  se  itcannot	be  treated  as illegal; it has	 been  found  to  beillegal	  in   this  case  because  it	was   commenced	  incontravention of s. 23(b) of the Act; but, as has been	heldby this Court in M/s.  Burn & Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen	 (1)mere   participation  in  such	an  illegal  strike   cannotnecessarily involve the rejection of the striker's claim forreinstatement.	 As  we	 have  already	indicated,  on	 thefindings  of the appellate tribunal nothing more  than	suchparticipation  has been proved against the  employees  whosereinstatement  has  been ordered; and so,  unless  the	saidfinding is reversed, the first contention raised by the Bankmust fail.It has been strenuously urged before us that in the case  ofa  Bank which is a credit institution a pen-down strike,  ifcontinued   for	  a  long  period,  is	likely	 to   affectprejudicially  the credit of the Bank.	It is  also  pointedout that, even in regard to industrial concerns, if strikersentered the premises of the factory and sit around the plantin large numbers, in the heat of the moment unfortunate	 andugly incidents are likely to happen, and so such pen-down orsit-down  strikes should be positively discouraged.  We	 areprepared to concede that in the surcharged atmosphere  whichgenerally accompanies strikes and when passions are aroused,a  large  scale and continuous pen-down strike may  lead  tountoward consequences.	But, on the other hand, even in	 thecase of such a strike, the employer is not without a remedy.He may bar the entry of the strikers within the premises  byadopting effective and legitimate methods in that behalf  asin fact the Bank did in the present case from April 23.	  Hemay call upon the employees to vacate, and, on their refusalto  do so, take due steps to suspend them  from	 employment,proceed	 to hold proper enquires according to  the  standingorders,	 and pass proper orders against them subject to	 therelevant  provisions  of  the Act.  If	the  Bank  had	beenproperly  advised  to  adopt  such a  course,  many  of	 thedifficulties which it had to face in the present proceedingswould not(1)  A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 529.848probably  have arisen.	Therefore, we do not think that	 thegeneral hypothetical consideration that pendown strikes	 mayin  some  cases lead to rowdy demonstrations  or  result  indisturbances  or  violence or shake the credit of  the	Bankwould  justify the conclusion that even if the strikers	 arepeaceful  and  non-violent and have done nothing  more	thanoccupying   their   seats   during   office   hours,   theirparticipation in the strike would by itself disqualify	themfrom claiming reinstatement.Let  us	 then consider the second contention raised  by	 theBank.	It is urged on behalf of the Bank that it is  reallyunnecessary   to  examine  which  particular  employee	 wasdirectly associated with the preparation and circulation  ofthe  subversive circular or posters.  The offensive  postersand  circulars had been drafted, printed and  circulated  inpursuance of the common object of the strikers, and each oneof  them must, therefore, share the responsibility  for	 thesaid  act.  It is really an argument based on the theory  ofconspiracy  which makes all conspirators liable for the	 actof any one of them.This  argument	is  countered  by  the	employees  with	 thecontention  that the activities of the Union do not fall  tobe  considered	in the present enquiry.	 It is the  acts  ofindividual strikers who have been dismissed that have  givenrise to the dispute and the enquiry must be confined to thatdispute alone.	The learned Attorney-General seriously askedus  to bear in mind that the application of the doctrine  ofconspiracy  to the decision of the present dispute may	havefar-reaching  consequences on the future of the trade  unionmovement  itself, and he suggested that since the Union	 andits  activities were not the subject matter of	the  presentenquiry	 we need not consider the argument of conspiracy  atall.  Besides, according to him, if the theory of conspiracywas  upheld it would mean that if any office bearers of	 theUnion	were  guilty  of  any  subversive  acts	 the   wholemembership of the Union would be constructively	 responsibleand  that  is plainly unreasonable.  In this  connection  healso  referred us to ss. 17, 18 and 19 of the  Indian  TradeUnions Act 1926849(16 of 1926).  We have indicated this argument at this placeby  anticipation.  In fact this argument has been raised  bythe  employees	in their appeal but we thought it  would  beconvenient to deal with both these aspects of the matter  inone place.Now  the  answer  to  both  these  technical  and   academiccontentions   is  the  same.   In  industrial	adjudicationtribunals  should  be  slow  to	 adopt	any  doctrinaire  orlegalistic  approach.  They should as far as  is  reasonablypossible   avoid  the  temptation  of  formulating   generalprinciples  and laying down general rules which	 purport  tocover  all cases.  Let us recall the nature of	the  enquirywhich the appellate tribunal had directed as a result of itsinterlocutary  judgment.   This enquiry is confined  to	 thequestion as to whether in' regard to the case of each one ofthe  dismissed	employees, the Bank has shown  any  positivecircumstances  as a result of which reinstatement, which  isthe normal rule, should not be directed.  Thus considered wedo  not think it necessary to deal with the academic  pointsraised by both the parties before us.The  third  argument urged by the bank is in regard  to	 thefinding	 of the tribunal that only 14 employees named by  itare  responsible for the subversive posters and hand  bills.It  is	urged  that this finding is perverse.	We  are	 notimpressed  by  this argument.  There is no  doubt  that	 thethree posters Exs. 255 (a), 255 (c) and 302, to which strongexception  has been taken by the Bank are subversive of	 thecredit of the Bank.  They make imputations about the honestyof the management of the Bank and in terms suggest  improperuse  of the funds of the Bank for personal purposes.  It  isalso  true that a large number of other documents issued  bythe   Union   before  and  during  the	strike	 have	usedexaggerated, and unduly militant intemperate, language,	 andin  our	 opinion  the appellate tribunal  was  justified  inexpressing its disapproval of the use of such language;	 butthe appellate tribunal thought that none of these  documentscould really be taken to be subversive of the credit of	 theBank  and  with that conclusion we are	in  full  agreement.Therefore  the	only question which we have to	consider  iswhether850the  view  taken by the appellate tribunal that	 14  personswere  actively concerned with these offensive documents	 canbe successfully challenged by the Bank before us.In  making its finding on this point the appellate  tribunalhas  substantially  relied on the statement made  by  H.  L.Puri.  He was asked whether the drafts of the letters issuedby  him	 had  been approved at the meeting  of	the  workingcommittee or on his individual responsibility and he repliedthat  they were never written on  individual  responsibilitybut  were  based  on consultation with the  members  of	 theworking committee.  Then he was asked whether he could	namethe  persons whom he consulted in drafting the poster  datedJuly 5, 1949 (Ex. 222).	 In reply to this he enumerated	 thenames  of 9 persons and added the word " so on." It  appearsthat  the appellate tribunal asked him several questions  onthe same topic and the effect of his admissions clearly	 wasto  show  that	most of the documents  were  issued  by	 thesecretary  or  the  president after  he	 had  consulted	 thepersons	 named	by Puri.  In this connection Puri  gave	 thenames of the office bearers of the Federation at Delhi.	  Itwas  in	 the light of these admissions	that  the  appellatetribunal came to the conclusion that 14 persons named by himcan  be safely taken to have been actively  associated	withthe   drafting	and  the  publication  of   the	  subversivedocuments.Mr.   Anand  contends  that  the  list	of  office   bearersseparately supplied by Puri includes a much larger number ofactive workers of the Union and on the evidence of Puri	 allthese  active workers should have been held responsible	 forthe said documents.  In this connection he has relied on theaffidavit filed by Amar Singh on behalf of the Bank.  We  donot  think  that  this	argument  is  wellfounded.   It	  issignificant that though the appellate tribunal had  directedthe  Bank by its interlocutary judgment to file a  statementgiving	particulars of the acts alleged against each one  ofthe  employees no such statement -was filed.  Besides it  isfairly conceded before us by Mr. Anand that most851of  the	 employees  who made affidavits	 in  the  subsequentenquiry	 were  not asked any general  question	about  theiralleged subversive activities and no particular question wasput to them in regard to the relevant subversive  documents.The  judgment of the appellate tribunal shows that it  firstconsidered  the general points and the evidence relied	uponby  the	 parties in that behalf; and  then  it	exhaustivelydealt with the whole of the evidence bearing on the case  ofeach  individual employees.  We are satisfied that the	Bankis  not	 justified  in	contending  that  in  excluding	 136employees from the responsibility of direct participation inthe drafting and publication of the subversive circulars andhand-bills the appellate tribunal has ignored any  importantevidence.  The argument that the said finding is opposed  tothe  weight of evidence and as such perverse must  thereforebe rejected.Then  Mr. Anand has invited us to consider  some  individualcases.	According to him the case against Joshi had not beenproperly  considered  by the appellate	tribunal.   It	doesappear	that  Joshi admitted that he had taken part  in	 thedrafting  of  documents P. 272, 274, 279, 280 and  286;	 butnone of these documents has been found to be subversive	 andso it is idle to contend that Joshi's connection with any ofthe three subversive documents is established.	So there  isno  substance  in the argument that Joshi's case  should  bereconsidered.Then our attention has been drawn to the cases of five otheremployees Narain Das, Chuni Lal, Som Datt, Trilok Chand	 andCharan	Singh.'	 In regard to these  persons  the  appellatetribunal  has found that the Bank had failed to	 -prove	 anysubversive  acts  against them, and that  undoubtedly  is  aquestion  of fact and the finding of the appellate  tribunalcannot	be  reopened.	But  Mr.  Anand	 has  attempted	  tochallenge the correctness of this finding on the ground thatit  is entirely inconsistent with one material	document  onthe  record.  This document is the report made by Dina	Nathon April 24 in which the incidents that took place on  April23  and	 24 have been set out and the names of	persons	 whotook prominent part in the said incidents852have  been enumerated.	This list includes the names of	 thefive  persons in question.  Dina Nath had, however, died  atthe  date of the enquiry and so he could not give  evidence.Jagan  Nath,  who  was then the	 Superintendent	 of  Police,proved	this report.  Mr. Anand's grievance 'is that  thoughthe  evidence  of  Jagan  Nath	had  been  accepted  by	 theappellate  tribunal in a part of its judgment it has  failedto consider his testimony in dealing with the cases of thesefive  persons.	 In our opinion this  argument	is  entirelymisconceived.	It is not correct to say that the  appellatetribunal has accepted the whole of Jagan Nath's evidence  inany  part of its judgment; while dealing with  the  questionabout  the  conduct  of the  crowd  the	 appellate  tribunalconsidered the evidence of Rajinder Nath, Mehta, Ram  Pratapand  Amar Singh and held that part of their  evidence  whichwas  corroborated by Jagan Nath and also partially  by	Purimust  be  believed; that is all.  Besides, the	evidence  ofJagan Nath itself does not carry the Bank's case any furtheragainst	 the  five  persons.  No doubt,	 while	proving	 thereport of Dina Nath, Jagan Nath first stated that the  factsnarrated therein were correct; but in crossexamination	whenhe  was asked about some details mentioned in the report  headded that the report was written by Dina Nath and he  couldnot  say anything about it.  Further he also  admitted	thatduring the course of his visit and stay at the Bank when thestrike was going on he only knew three persons who took partin  the	 activity which was described by Dina  Nath  in	 hisreports	 Thus the evidence of Jagan Nath does not show	thathe  clearly  knew  any of the five employees  and  the	samecomment	 obviously falls to be made about Dina Nath  himselfwho  made the report.  Therefore it is not accurate  to	 saythat  the conclusion of the appellate tribunal in regard  tothese, five cases suffers from any infirmity on which it canbe  successfully  challenged  before us;  besides  the	Bankapparently  relied  upon other evidence against	 these	fivepersons, and not the report of Dina Nath, and that  evidencehas been disbelieved,853Mr. Anand has then urged that in directing reinstatement  of136 employees the appellate tribunal failed to consider	 thefact that in the meanwhile the Bank has employed  additionalhands  and  it would be unfair to the Bank  to	direct	thatthese  dismissed  employees  should  be	 taken	back.	 Thereinstatement order would lead to complications and the Bankmay have to face the claims of those who have been  employedin  the meanwhile.  Mr. Anand wanted to prove that the	Bankhad  employed  a large number of hands in the  meanwhile  byreferring to the statement made by the Union in the bulletinand posters issued during the strike.  These statements seemto  indicate  that  the Union complained  that	pending	 thestrike	the Bank was employing new hands.  But if  the	Bankwanted to urge this plea seriously it should have proved therelevant facts, e.g., how many employees have been appointedand  on	 what terms.  These are matters within	the  specialknowledge  of the Bank and they could have been proved	veryeasily.	  The  Bank  did not choose to	prove  these  facts.Indeed	it  does not appear that this plea was	urged  as  aseparate plea against the order of reinstatement before	 theappellate  tribunal.   In  any	case,  in  the	absence	  ofsatisfactory  materials it would be difficult to  deal	withthis plea on the merits.  Besides, if the Bank has failed toestablish   its	 specific  case	 against  any  of  the	 136employees, there is no reason why the normal rule should notprevail	 and  the  employees should not get  the  relief  ofreinstatement.	 The  mere  fact  that	the  Bank  may	haveemployed  some	other  persons in the  meanwhile  would	 notnecessarily  defeat such a claim for reinstatement.  As	 hasbeen  held  by	this Court in  the  National  Transport	 andGeneral Co. Ltd. v. The Workmen (1), however much the  courtmay sympathise with the employer's difficulty caused by	 thefact  that after the wrongful dismissals in question he	 hadengaged fresh hands, the court cannot " overlook the  claimsof  the	 employees  who, on the findings  of  the  tribunalsbelow,	had been wrongly dismissed.  " In the case  of	suchwrongful(1)Civil Appeal No. 312 of 1956- Decided by this Court	onJanuary 22, 1957.108854dismissal  the normal rule would be that the employees	thuswrongfully dismissed must be reinstated.  " The hardship  inquestion ", observed this Court, " has been brought about bythe  precipitate  action of the	 appellants  themselves	 whodismissed their workmen without holding the usual  enquiriesafter  framing	a proper charge against them.  If  they	 hadproceeded  in  the  usual  way and given  a  full  and	fairopportunity  to the workmen to place their case	 before	 theenquiring  authority, the result may not have been so  bard."  These observations are equally applicable to the  conductof the Bank in the present appeals.The last argument urged by Mr. Anand is that a large  numberof  employees  who  are clamouring  for	 reinstatement	havesecured employment on a fairly permanent basis and so it  isunnecessary  that they should be forced on the	Bank.	Thisargument cannot be entertained because it has not been urgedbefore	the appellate tribunal, and though it was sought  tobe  raised before us, Mr. Anand fairly conceded that in	 theabsence of any material it would not be possible for him  topress this point.  Indeed it is the first two general pointswhich were seriously pressed before us by Mr. Anand and	 Mr.Sanyal	on  behalf of the Bank.	 Mr. Anand no  doubt  raisedthree  additional subsidiary points in Civil Appeal No.	 519of  1958, in which he appeared, but as we have	pointed	 outthere  is no substance in any one of them.  In Civil  AppealNo.  520 of 1958, in which Mr. Sanyal appeared for the	Bankhe did not challenge the findings recorded by the  appellatetribunal  in  respect of the 10 employees concerned  in	 thesaid  appeal.  In the result both the appeals  preferred  bythe Bank fail and are dismissed with costs.That takes us to Civil Appeal No. 521 of 1958, filed by	 theemployees.   In this appeal we are concerned with the  orderrefusing reinstatement to 14 employees.	 In addition to	 thetwo preliminary objections which we have already  consideredthe  learned Attorney-General raised two general points	 forthe appellant. The first is that the appellate tribunal	 haserred  in law in virtually penalising the 14  employees	 forthe  activities	 of the Union, and in  that  connection	 theraised the