PETITIONER:RAGHUBAR MANDAL HARIHAR MANDAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHARDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/05/1957BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  810		  1958 SCR   37ACT:Sales Tax-Assessee's accounts rejected as unreliable-Assess-ment  made  on	guess  without	reference  to  evidence	  ormaterialValidity-Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1944 (Bihar Act VI  of1944),S.I0(2)(b)-Indian	 Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI Of  1922),S. 23(3).HEADNOTE:The  appellant filed the necessary returns, as	required  bythe  provisions	 of  the  Bihar Sales  Tax  Act,  1944,	 andproduced   the	account	 books.	  The  Sales   Tax   Officerconsidered  that the account books were not dependable	and,after  rejecting them as well as the returns,  proceeded  toestimate  the  gross turnover by adopting a figure  by	pureguess,	without reference to any evidence or  material,	 andmade the assessment under s. 10 (2) (b) of the Act.Held,  that under S. 1O (2) (b) of the Bihar Sales Tax	Act,1944,  a duty is imposed on the assessing authority to	makethe  assessment after hearing such evidence as the  assesseemay  produce  and  such	 other	evidence  as  the  assessingauthority may require on specified points, and, in case	 thereturns	 of  the  assessee  and his  books  of	account	 arerejected, the assessing authority must make an estimate, butthis  must  be	based on such evidence or  material  as	 theassessing authority has before him, including the assessee'scircumstances,	knowledge of previous returns and all  othermatters which the assessing authority thinks will assist himin arriving at a fair and proper estimate.Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income	Tax,West Bengal, (1955) 1 S.C.R. 941 and Income-tax Commissionerv.  Badridas  Ramrai Shop, Akola, (1937) L.R. 64  I.A.	102,relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.249 of 1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 8, 1952, of the Patna High Court in Misc.   JudicialCases Nos. 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 -of 1949.38Bhawani Lal and K. L. Mehta, for the appellants.L.K.  Jha,  B.	K.  P.	Sinha and  R.  C.  Prasad,  for	 therespondent.1957.  May 22.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.K.  DAS J.-The appellant Messrs.  Raghubar Mandal  HariharMandal,	 hereinafter referred to as the assessee, is a	firmof bullion dealers carrying on its business at	Laheriasaraiin  the	 district of Darbhanga in the State of	Bihar.	 Theassessee was assessed to sales tax for seven quarters endingDecember 31, 1945, March, 31, 1946, June 30, 1946, September30,  1946,  December 31, 1946, March 31, 1947 and  June	 30,1947,  respectively.  For three of the	aforesaid  quarters,namely those ending on December 31, 1945, March 31, 1947 andJune  30,  1947, the assessee failed to file  the  necessaryreturns as required by the provisions of the Bihar Sales TaxAct,  1944 (hereinafter referred to as the Act),  which	 wasthe Act in force during the material period; therefore,	 theassessee was assessed for those three quarters under  sub-s.(4)  of s. 10 of the Act.  For the remaining four  quarters,the  assessee  did  file returns.   The	 Sales	Tax  Officerrejected those returns as also the books of account filed bythe  assessee  for all the seven quarters and  assessed	 theassessee  under el. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of  the	Act.The  Sales Tax Officer passed separate orders assessing	 thetax for all the seven quarters simultaneously on October  9,1947.	He  assessed the tax on a taxable  turnover  of	 Rs.2,94,000  for each of the five quarters ending December	 31,1945, March 31, 1946, September 30, 1946, December 31,	1946and  March  31, 1947; for the other two quarters  ending  onJune  30, 1946, and June 30, 1947, he assessed the tax on  ataxable	 turnover of Rs. 3,92,000.  The assessee then  movedin  appeal  the	 Commissioner of  Commercial  Taxes,  TirhutDivision, but the Commissioner dismissed the appeals by	 hisorder  dated  February 23, 1948.  The Board of	Revenue	 wasthen  moved  in revision but, by its order  dated  July	 31,1948, the Board refused to interfere.  The Board expressed39the  view that the finding of the Sales Tax Officer and	 theCommissioner  that  the books of account maintained  by	 theassessee  were	not dependable was a finding of	 fact  whichcould  not be interfered with in revision ;  -therefore	 theassessing  officer was bound to assess to' the best  of	 hisjudgment.   The Board was then moved under s. 21 of the	 Actto refer certain questions of law to the High Court of Patnawhich,	the assessee contended, arose out of its order.	  Byits  order dated December 10, 1948, the Board  rejected	 theapplications for making a reference to the High Court on thesame  ground, namely, that no question of law  was  involvedand  the  assessment orders were concluded by  a  concurrentfinding of fact.  The assessee then moved the High Court andby  its order dated April 27, 1949, passed in  MiscellaneousJudicial  Cases	 Nos. 13 to 19 of of 1949,  the	 High  Courtdirected  the  Board  of  Revenue to state  a  case  on	 thefollowing question:"  Whether the Sales Tax.Officer is entitled  under  section10(2)(b) of the Act to make an assessment on any figures  ofgross  turnover	 without  giving any basis  to	justify	 theadoption of that figure ?"The Board of Revenue then stated a case, and the High  Courtdisposed  of the reference by answering the question in	 theaffirmative by its judgment and order dated January 8, 1952.The  assessee  then moved this Court  and  obtained  specialleave to appeal from the said judgment and order of the HighCourt.The  main contention of the assessee is that the High  Courthas  not correctly answered the question of law referred  toit.   Before we proceed to consider this contention  of	 theassessee, it is necessary to clear the ground by  delimitingthe  precise  scope  of the question referred  to  the	HighCourt.	It is well settled that the jurisdiction of the HighCourt in the' matter of incometax references is an  advisoryjurisdiction  and under the Income-tax Act the	decision  ofthe   Tribunal	on  facts  is  final,  unless  it   can	  besuccessfully  assailed	on  the ground	that  there  was  noevidence  for  the  conclusion	on  facts  recorded  by	 theTribunal or the conclusion was such as no reasonable body ofpersons	 could have arrived at.It is also well settled	thatthe duty40of the High Court is to start with the statement of the caseas  the	 final	statement of the facts	and  to	 answer	 thequestion  of  law  with reference to  that  statement.	 Theprovisions of the Indian Income-tax Act are in pari  materiawith the provisions of the Act under our consideration,	 themain scheme of the relevant provisions of the two Acts beingsimilar	 in nature, though the wording of the provisions  isnot  exactly  the same.	 Under s. 21 of the  Act,  the	HighCourt  exercises a similar advisory jurisdiction, and  undersub-s.	(3) of that section, the High Court may require	 theBoard  of Revenue to state a case and refer it to  the	HighCourt, when the High Court is satisfied that the refusal  ofthe Board to make a reference to the High Court under sub-s.(2)  is not justified.	Under sub-s. (5) of s. 21  the	HighCourt  hears the reference and decides the question  of	 lawreferred  to  it, giving in a judgment the  grounds  of	 itsdecision.  In the case under our consideration, the questionwhich  was  referred  to  the  High  Court  related  to	 theassessments  made  under s. 10(2)(b) of the  Act;  in  otherwords, the question related to those four quarters only	 forwhich  the  assessments were made under	 s.  10(2)(b).	 Thequestion did not relate to the three quarters for which	 theassessee  had  filed no returns and  assessments  were	madeunder  s. 10(4) of the Act.  At one place in  its  judgment,the  High  Court  referred to a	 slight	 inaccuracy  in	 thequestion  framed, but it did not reframe the question so  asto widen its scope and include the three quarters for  whichassessments  were  made	 under s. 10(4)	 of  the  Act.	 Thequestion,  as  it stood and as it was answered by  the	HighCourt,	did not relate to the propriety or legality  of	 theassessments  made  under  s. 10(4) of  the  Act.   We  must,therefore,  make  it  clear  at the  very  outset  that	 thequestion  relates  to  those four quarters  only  for  whichassessments were made under s. 10(2)(b) of the Act, and	 theanswer given to the question will govern those four quartersonly.  Having  thus  indicated	the  precise  scope  of	 thequestion  referred  to	the High Court, we  proceed  now  toconsider the main contention of the assessee.  We must firstread the relevant provisions of the statute41under  which the assessments were made.	 Sub-section (1)  ofs.  10	of  the	 Act states  that  if  the  Commissioner  issatisfied  without  requiring the presence of  a  registereddealer	or  the production by him of any evidence  that	 thereturns	 furnished in respect of any period are correct	 andcomplete,  he  shall assess the amount of tax due  from	 thedealer	on the basis of such returns.  Clause (a) of  sub-s.(2)  states  what the Commissioner shall do, if	 he  is	 notsatisfied  without  requiring the presence of  a  registereddealer	who furnished the returns or production of  evidencethat  the  returns furnished in respect of  any	 period	 arecorrect	 and complete; the clause states that in that  eventthe  Commissioner shall serve on the dealer a notice in	 theprescribed  manner requiring him either to attend in  personor to produce or cause to be produced any evidence on  whichsuch dealer may rely in support of his returns.	 Then  comescl. (b) of sub-s. (2) which must be quoted in extenso:"  (b)	On  the	 day specified in  the	notice	or  as	soonafterwards  as may be, the Commissioner, after hearing	suchevidence as the dealer may produce, and such other  evidenceas  the Commissioner may require on specified points,  shallassess the amount of tax due from the dealer."These provisions are similar to the provisions contained  ins.  23 of the Indian Income-tax Act.  Sub-section (1) of  s.10  of	the Act corresponds to sub-s. (1) of s.	 23  of	 theIndian Income-tax Act; clause (a) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10  ofthe  Act  corresponds to sub-s. (2) of s. 23 of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act; and clause (b) of sub-s. (2) of S. 10 of theAct corresponds to sub-s. (3) of s. 23 of the Indian Income-tax  Act, though there are some verbal	differences  betweenthe two provisions.  Sub-section (3) of s. 23 of the  IndianIncome-tax Act requires the Income-tax Officer to assess thetotal  income of the assessee and determine the sum  payableby  him	 on the basis of such assessment, by  "an  order  inwriting";  but	cl. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10	of  the	 Actrequires  the Commissioner to assess the amount of  tax	 duefrom the dealer and does not impose any liability as to	 "anorder in writing." In spite of these differences, the42two provisions are substantially the same and impose on	 theassessing  authority a duty to assess the tax after  hearingsuch  evidence	as  the dealer may produce  and	 such  otherevidence as the assessing authority may require on specifiedpoints.The  point  for	 our  consideration  is-can  the   assessingauthority,  purporting to act under s. 10(2)(b) of the	Act,assess	the  amount of tax due from a dealer  more  or	lessarbitrarily   or  without  basing  the	assessment  on	 anymaterials whatsoever ? In the question referred to the	HighCourt,	the expression used is, "make an assessment  on	 anyfigure of gross turnover without giving any basis to justifythe adoption of that figure".  That expression is perhaps  alittle	ambiguous, but read in the context of the  statementof  the	 case,	the question can only  mean  this:  can	 theassessing authority adopt a figure of gross turnover by pureguess  and without referring to any materials on  which	 thefigure	is  based ?  It is clear to us that,  understood  inthat  sense,  the  High	 Court	has  answered  the  questionincorrectly.	The  High  Court  went	into  an   elaborateconsideration, by way of comparison and contrast, of  sub-s.(4)  and el. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.   It  isunnecessary for us to make any pronouncement in this  appealwith  regard to the precise scope of sub-s. (4) of s. 10  ofthe Act, which corresponds more or less to sub-s. (4) of  s.23 of the Indian Income-tax Act; nor is it necessary for  usto decide if an assessment made under el. (b) of sub-s.	 (2)of s. 10 of the Act, when the account books of the  assesseeare  disbelieved, stands exactly on the same footing  as  anassessment made under sub-s. (4) of s. 10 when the  assesseehas  failed  to	 furnish his  returns.	 In  some  decisionsrelating  to  the  corresponding provisions  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act, it has been said that the difference betweenthe  two is one of degree only, the one being  more  summarythan  the  other.  These are questions which do	 not  reallyfall  for decision in the present appeal, which is  confinedto interpreting the true nature and scope of el. (b) of sub-s.   (2)  of  s.  10  of  the  Act.   With  regard  to	 thecorresponding provision in sub-s. (3) of s. 23 of the IndianIncome-tax Act, there is a decision of this43Court which, in our opinion, answers the question before us.The  decision  is that of Dhakeswari Cotton  Mills  Ltd.  v.Commissioner  of  Income Tax, West  Bengal(1).	 This  Courtobserved:"As  regards  the  second  contention,	we  are	 in   entireagreement  with the learned Solicitor-General when  he	saysthat  the  Income-tax Officer is not fettered  by  technicalrules of evidence and pleadings, and that he is entitled  toact  on material which may not be accepted as evidence in  aCourt  of law, but there the agreement ends; because  it  isequally clear that in making the assessment under sub-s. (3)of s. 23 of the Act, the Income-tax Officer is not  entitledto  make  a  pure  guess  and  make  an	 assessment  withoutreference  to  any evidence or any material at	all.   Theremust  be something more than bare suspicion to	support	 theassessment under s. 23(3)."In  our view, the aforesaid observations clearly  show	thatthe High Court was in error in answering the question in theaffirmative.   Firstly, the High Court treated the  questionreferred to it as a pure question of fact; if that were	 so,then  the High Court should have rejected the  reference  onthe ground that it was not competent to answer a question offact.	Then, the High Court proceeded to  consider  certaindecisions relating to the interpretation of sub-ss. (3)	 and(4)  of	 s. 23 of the Indian Income-tax Act, and  held	thatthere  was no difference between an assessment under  sub-s.(3)  and an assessment under sub-s. (4) of s. 23.  The	HighCourt applied the same analogy and on that footing held thatthere  being no difference between an assessment  under	 cl.(b)  of sub-s. (2) and an assessment under sub-s. (4) of  s.10  of	the Act, the answer to the question must be  in	 theaffirmative.  In our view, the approach of the High Court tothe  question  referred to it was erroneous and	 the  answergiven  to the question by it solely on the basis  of  sub-s.(4) of s. 10 of the Act was vitiated by that wrong approach.It  was	 not sub-s. (4) of s. 10 of the Act which  the	HighCourt had to consider; it had to consider the true scope andeffect of cl. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 941, 949.44Learned	 counsel for the respondent has strongly  urged	 twopoints	in support of the answer which the High Court  gave.Firstly,  he has contended that, on a proper reading of	 theassessment  orders  and the orders of the  Commissioner,  itwould  appear  that the gross turnover for the	quarters  inquestion  was  based on certain	 materials;  therefore,	 theargument of learned counsel is that it is not correct to saythat the figure of gross turnover was arbitrarily adopted orwas  adopted  without  reference  to  any  evidence  or	 anymaterial at all.  We have examined the assessment orders  inquestion, which form part of the statement of the case.	  Itis  clear  to  us that what the Sales Tax  Officer  and	 theCommissioner did was to hold, for certain reasons, that	 thereturns made by the assessee and the books of account  filedby it were incorrect and undependable.	It is not  necessaryto repeat those reasons, because we must accept the  findingof  fact  arrived at by the assessing authorities  that	 thereturns	 and the books of account were not dependable.	 Theassessing  authorities	rightly	 pointed  out  that  severaltransactions were not entered in the books of account; and asurprise inspection made on July 15, 1947, disclosed certaintransactions with a Bombay firm known as Messrs.   KishundasLekhraj,  which were not mentioned in the books of  account;and  finally, the assessee Was importing silver in the	nameof five confederates in order to suppress the details of thetransactions etc.  The assessing authorities further pointedout  that there was a discrepancy between the  return  filedfor the quarter ending June 30, 1946, and the accounts filedin support of it; the return showed a gross turnover of	 Rs.2,28,370-12-0  while the accounts revealed a gross  turnoverof  Rs.	 1,48,204.   All these we must	accept	as  correct.Having	rejected the returns and the books of  account,	 theassessing  authorities	proceeded  to  estimate	 the   grossturnover.  In so estimating the gross turnover, they did notrefer  to  any	materials  at all.  On	the  contrary,	theyindulged  in  a	 pure guess and	 adopted  a  figure  withoutreference  to any evidence or any material at all.   Let  ustake,  for  example, the assessment order  for	the  quarterending June 30, 1946.45The Sales Tax Officer said: "I reject the dealer's  accountsand  estimate  a gross turnover of Rs. 4,00,000. 1  allow  adeduction  at  2%  on the turnover and	assess	him  on	 Rs.3,92,000  to  pay sales tax of Rs. 6,125." For	the  quarterending on September 30, 1946, the Sales Tax Officer said: "Ireject	his irregular account and estimate a gross  turnoverof  Rs.	 3,00,000  for the quarter and	assess	him  on	 Rs.2,94,000  to pay tax of Rs. 4,593-12-0." These	and  similarorders	do  not	 show  that the	 assessment  was  made	withreference to any evidence or material; on the contrary, theyshow  that  having  rejected  the  books  of  account,	 theassessing  authorities indulged in -pure guess and  made  anassessment without reference-to any evidence or any materialat all.	 This the assessing authorities were not entitled todo under cl. (b) of sub.s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.Secondly, learned counsel for the respondent has referred usto several decisions on which the High Court relied and	 hasargued that on the basis of those decisions, it must be heldthat  the  answer given by the High Court  to  the  questionreferred to it was a correct answer.  We propose to  examinebriefly	 some of those decisions, though, as we have  statedearlier, the question is really answered by the observationsmade  by  this Court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills'  case	(1).The first decision is the Privy Council decision in  Income-tax  Commissioner v. Badridas Ramrai Shop, Akola (2).	LordRussell	 of  Killowen in delivering the	 judgment  of  theirLordships  made the following observations as respects	a  "best  of judgment " assessment within the meaning of  s.  23(4) of the Indian Income-tax Act:"  The officer is to make an assessment to the best  of	 hisjudgment  against  a  person who is in	default	 as  regardssupplying  information.	  He must not  act  dishonestly,  orvindictively  or  capriciously,	 because  he  must  exercisejudgment  in  the  matter.  He must make  what	he  honestlybelieves  to  be  a fair estimate of the  proper  figure  ofassessment,  and for this purpose he must,  their  Lordshipsthink,	be able to take into consideration  local  knowledgeand  repute in regard to the assessee's	 circumstances,	 andhis  own knowledge of previous returns by,  and	 assessmentsof, the assessee,(1) [1955] S.C.R. 94I, 949.(2) (1937) 64 I.A. 102, 114-115.46and  all  other matters which he thinks will assist  him  inarriving  at  a fair and proper estimate: and  though  theremust  necessarily  be guess-work in the matter, it  must  behonest guess-work.  "We find nothing in those observations which runs counter  tothe  observations made in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills'  case(1).No  doubt it is true that when the returns and the books  ofaccount	 are  rejected, the assessing officer must  make  anestimate,  and to that extent he must make a guess; but	 theestimate must be related to some evidence or material and itmust  be  something more than mere suspicion.	To  use	 thewords of Lord Russell of Killowen again, " he must make whathe  honestly  believes to be a fair estimate of	 the  properfigure of assessment" and for this purpose he must take intoconsideration  such materials as the assessing	officer	 hasbefore	 him,	including  the	 assessee's   circumstances,knowledge  of previous returns and all other  matters  whichthe assessing officer thinks will assist him in arriving  ata  fair	 and  proper  estimate.	  In  the  case	 under	 ourconsideration, the assessing officer did not do so, and thatis where the grievance of the assessee arises.The next decision is Ganga Ram Balmokand v. Commissioner  ofIncome Tax, Punjab (2).	 It was held therein that where	 theincome-tax   authorities   were	 not  satisfied	  with	 thecorrectness or completeness of the assessees' accounts	and,taking	into consideration the state of affairs	 in  generaland the fact that the assessees had a large business and theprofit	shown by them was abnormally low in comparison	withthat  of other persons carrying on the same business in	 thelocality,  calculated the taxable income by applying a	flatrate  of  7  per cent., the authorities	 were  justified  inapplying  such	a  flat	 rate, and the	burden	was  on	 theassessees  to  displace	 the  estimate.	  There	 again,	 theestimate  made	was not a pure guess and was based  on	somematerials which the Income-tax Officer had before him.	 DinMohammad  J. who gave the leading judgment, observed:  "  Itcannot be denied that there must be some material before theIncome-tax Officer on which(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 941, 949.(2) [1937] 5 I.T.R. 464.47to base his estimate, but no hard and fast rule can be	laiddown  by  the  Court  to define what  sort  of	material  isrequired  on which his estimate can be founded."  With	thatobservation we generally agree.	 If, in this case, the SalesTax  authorities had based their estimate on  some  materialbefore	them,  no objection could have been taken;  but	 thequestion  which	 was referred to the High, Court  and  whicharose  out  of the orders of assessment was whether  it	 wasopen  to  the said authorities to make an  assessment  on  afigure	 of  gross,  turnover,	without	 referring  to	 anymaterials  to  justify	the adoption  of  that	figure.	  Inanswering  that question in the affirmative, the High  Courthas  given a carte blanche to the Sales Tax authorities	 andhas, in our opinion, misdirected itself as to the true scopeand effect of cl. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.The  next  decision  is Gunda Subbayya	v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  Madras (1).  This decision also does  not	helpthe  respondent.  It was held in that decision	that  thoughthere is nothing in the Indian Income-tax Act which  imposesa  duty	 on an Incometax Officer, who  makes  an  assessmentunder s. 23 (3), to disclose to the assessee the material onwhich  he proposes to act, natural justice requires that  heshould	draw the assessee's attention to it and give him  anopportunity to show that the officer's information is  wrongand  he	 should also indicate in his order the	material  onwhich  he  has made his estimate.  This decision  is  reallyagainst the respondent and does not lay down any rule  whichmay be said to be inconsistent with the observations made bythis Court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills' case (2).The decision of the Lahore High Court in Seth Gurmukh  Singhv.  Commissioner of Income-tax, Punjab (3) was	specificallyapproved by this Court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills' case (2).The  rules laid down in that decision were these: (1)  Whileproceeding under sub-s. (3) of s. 23 of the Income-tax	Act,the  Income-tax	 Officer  is  not bound	 to  -rely  on	suchevidence  produced  by the assessee as he  considers  to  befalse;(2)  if he proposes to make an estimate in disregard of(1)  [1939] 7 I.T.R. 2 1.(2)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 941, 949.(3)   [1944] 12 I.T.R. 393.48the  evidence, oral or documentary, led by the assessee,  heshould in fairness disclose to the assessee the material  onwhich  he  is going to found that estimate; (3)	 he  is	 nothowever	  debarred  from  relying  on  private	sources	  ofinformation,  which  sources  he may  not  disclose  to	 theassessee at all; and (4) in case he proposes to use  againstthe  assessee  the result of any private inquiries  made  byhim,  he must communicate to the assessee the  substance  ofthe information so proposed to be utilised to such an extentas to put the assessee in possession of full particulars  ofthe case he is expected to meet and should further give	 himample  opportunity  to meet it, if possible.   The  decisiondoes not lay down that it is open to the Income-tax  Officerto  make an estimate on pure guess and without reference  toany material or evidence before him.The  last  decision to which we have been  referred  is	 thedecision in Malik Damsaz Khan v. Commissioner of  Income-tax(1).   That  again is a decision of the Privy  Council.	  Inthat case, the validity of the assessment under s. 23 (3) ofthe Indian Income-tax Act was not challenged by the assesseeand  the  appeal  was  directed	 solely	 to  the  amount  ofassessment.  Their Lordships observed:'But  it appears to them that it was clearly  competent	 forthe  Income-tax Officer in the circumstances of the  presentcase  to accept the return as a valid return and proceed  toassessment  under  section 23 (1) or section 23 (3)  as	 thecase  might be.	 Since he was not satisfied that the  returnwas correct and complete he could not proceed under  section23  (1);  he, therefore, as appeared upon the  face  of	 theassessment, proceeded under section 23 (3).  Neither in	 theincompleteness	of  the return nor in the fact that  in	 anyaccompanying statement the appellant referred to his  returnas  an	estimate  can  their  Lordships	 find  any  possiblejustification	for  the  plea	that  the   assessment	 wasincompetent or that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner hadno  jurisdiction to entertain the appeal  proceedings  whichthe appellant himself initiated.  "(1)  [1947] 15 I.T.R. 445.49These  observations do not help the respondent in  any	way;nor  do	 they lay down any rule contrary to the	 rules	laiddown in Seth Gurmukh Singh's case (1).For these reasons we hold that the High Court, was in  errorin  answering  the question referred to it.  The  appeal  isaccordingly  allowed and the judgment and order of the	HighCourt are set aside.  The answer to the question referred tothe  High Court is in the negative.  The appellant  will  beentitled  to  its costs both in this Court and in  the	HighCourt.Appeal allowed.