PETITIONER:BABULAL BHURAMAL AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:NANDRAM SHIVRAM AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:31/03/1958BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  677		  1959 SCR  367ACT:       Bombay  City Civil Court, Jurisdiction of-Suit to  establish       status  as  tenants  and	 sub-tenants  for  Protection  from       eviction	 Whether  can  be  entertained	Rents,	Hotel	and       Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947 (Bom.  LVII Of  1947),       SS. 28 and 29A.HEADNOTE:A  who was a tenant of N sub-let the premises to B and C.  Nfiled  a suit for ejectment against A, B and C in the  Courtof  Small  Causes,  Bombay, on the ground  of  illegal	sub-letting.   The	suit was decreed.  Thereafter, A,  B  and  Cfiled the present suit in the Bombay City Civil Court for  adeclaration that A was a tenant of N and was protected	fromeviction  by the provisions of the Bombay Rents,  Hotel	 andLodging House Rates Control Act, 1947, and that B and C werelawful	sub-tenants  of	 A  and were  as  such	entitled  topossession,  use and occupation of the premises.   The	CityCivil  Court held that it had jurisdiction to entertain	 thesuit but dismissed it on the ground that there was no lawfulsubletting.  On appeal, the Bombay High Court held that	 theCity  Civil Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the	suitand dismissed the appeal without going into the merits :Held, that the High Court was right in holding that s. 28 ofthe  Act barred the City Civil Court from  entertaining	 thesuit.	Section	 28 explicitly confers on  courts  specifiedtherein jurisdiction to entertain a suit between a  landlordand  a tenant in respect of a claim which arose out  of	 theAct or any of its provisions,368and   expressly	  prohibits  any  other	  court	  exercisingjurisdiction with respect thereto.  In the present suit	 theclaim  being one  which arose out of the Act, and  the	CityCivil  Court not being a court specified in s. 28, it  couldnot  entertain	the suit.  Though S. 29A of the	 Act  allowsquestions  of  title to be regarded in a   civil  court,  itapplies only to titles which do not arise out of the Act  orany  of	 its  provisions; and titles  which  could  riot  beestablished  outside  the  Act but  which  arose  under	 theprovisions  of the Act by virtue of a claim made  thereundermust be determined by a court specified in S. 28.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 84 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated November 7,  1955,of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 629 of 1955,  arisingout of the judgment and decree dated August 9, 1955, of the.City Civil Court, Bombay, in Suit No. 2178 of 1954.A.V. Viswanatha Sastri and I. N. Shroff, for the appellants.Purshotam Tricumdas and C. P. Lal, for the respondents.1958.	March 31.  The following Judgment of the  Court	 wasdelivered byIMAM J.-The sole question considered and decided by the HighCourt  was whether the suit filed by the appellants  in	 theCity Civil Court could be entertained by that Court,  havingregard to the provisions of s. 28 of the Bombay Rents, Hoteland  Lodging  House  Rates Control  Act,  1947	(hereinafterreferred to as the Act).  The High Court was of the  opinionthat  the City Civil Court had no jurisdiction to  entertainthe suit.  It did not pronounce any opinion on the merits ofthe appellants' case.  The only question which requires con-sideration  in	this  appeal  is  whether  the	High   Courtcorrectly   decided  that  the	City  Civil  Court  had	  nojurisdiction to entertain the suit filed by the appellants.The first plaintiff in the suit before the City Civil Court,was  a	tenant of the premises in question under  the  firstdefendant.  The second and third plaintiffs were persons  towhom the said premises were sublet by369the first plaintiff.  The first defendant as landlord of thepremises in suit gave notice to quit to the first  plaintiffon  December  6,  1947.	  Thereafter,  he  filed  suit'	 No.483/4400  of  1948 in the Court of Small  Causes  Bombay  onApril  29,1948,	 whereby  he  sought  to  evict	 the   firstplaintiffs  To that suit the first defendant also  made	 thesecond	and the third plaintiffs parties alleging that	theywere  trespassers  and had no right to be on  the  premises.The  Small  Cause  Court  held that  the  second  and  thirdplaintiffs were not lawful subtenants and the subletting  bythe first plaintiff to them being contrary to law the latterhad  deprived  himself	of the protection of  the  Act.	  Itaccordingly  passed  a	decree	for  eviction  of  all	 theplaintiffs  of	the  present suit.  An	appeal	against	 thedecree was unsuccessful and a revisional application to	 theHigh Court of Bombay was summarily dismissed by that  Court.Thereafter,  the present suit No. 2178 of 1954 was filed  bythe  appellants in the Bombay City Civil Court on  September20, 1954.  In this suit the appellants prayed for a declara-tion that the first plaintiff was a tenant of the defendantsand  was entitled to protection under the Act and  that	 thesecond	and the third plaintiffs were lawful  subtenants  ofthe first plaintiff and were entitled to possession, use andoccupation of the premises as subtenants thereof.  The	CityCivil  Court held that it had jurisdiction to entertain	 thesuit  but  dismissed the suit on the ground that  there	 badbeen  no  lawful subletting, by the first plaintiff  of	 thepremises  to  the  second and the third	 plaintiffs  as	 theprovisions  of	s. 10 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel  Rates	 andLodging House Rates (Control) Act, 1944 (Bombay Act No.	 VIIof  1944) (hereinafter referred to as the Bombay Rents	Act,1944)  had  not been properly complied with.   Against	thatdecision  the appellants appealed to the Bombay	 High  Courtwhich was dismissed.  The High Court disagreed with the viewof   the  Judge	 of  the  City	Civil  Court  that  he	 hadjurisdiction  to entertain the suit but did not	 record	 anydecision on the merits of the appellants' case.The preamble of the Act states that it was expedient47370to amend and consolidate the law relating to the control  ofrents  and repairs of certain premises, of rates  of  hotelsand lodging houses and of evictions.  The entire  provisionsof  the Act read as a whole show that the Act was passed  toachieve that purpose.  The Act defines " landlord " to	mean"  any	person	who is for the	time  being,  receiving,  orentitled to receive, rent in respect of any premises whetheron  his own account or on account, or on behalf, or for	 thebenefit	 of any other person or as a trustee,  guardian,  orreceiver  for any other person or who would so	receive	 therent or be entitled to receive the rent if the premises werelet to a tenant ; and includes any person not being a tenantwho  from time to time derives title under a  landlord;	 andfurther	 includes in respect of his subtenant a	 tenant	 whohas  sublet  any  premises " and " tenant " to	mean  "	 anyperson	by whom or on whose account rent is payable for	 anypremises and includes -(a) such subtenants and other personsas have derived title under a tenant before the coming	intooperation  of this Act, (a) any person to whom	interest  inpremises  has been transferred under the proviso to  s.	 15,(b)  any  person remaining, after the determination  of	 thelease,	in  possession, with or without the  assent  of	 thelandlord,  of  the  premises leased to such  person  or	 hispredecessor  who  has derived title before the	coming	intooperation of this Act, (c) any member of the tenant's familyresiding with him at the time of his death as may be decidedin  default  of agreement by the Court."  Section  12  givesprotection to a tenant from eviction if he pays or is  readyand  willing to pay standard rent and  permitted  increases.Section	 13  states the grounds upon which the	landlord  isentitled to recover possession of any premises.	 Amongst thenumerous  grounds one is if the tenant had since the  cominginto  operation of the Act sublet the whole or part  of	 thepremises or assigned or transferred in any other manner	 hisinterest  therein.  Section 14 states: ,,Where the  interestof  a tenant of any premises is determined for	any  reason,any subtenant to whom the premises or any part thereof	havebeen lawfully371sublet	before the coming into operation of this  Act  shallsubject	 to the provisions of this Act, be deemed to  becomethe tenant of the landlord on the same terms and  conditionsas  he	would have held from the tenant if the	tenancy	 hadcontinued." Section 28 of the Act deals with jurisdiction ofcourts	and it states: " (1) Notwithstanding  anything	con-tained -in any law and notwithstanding that by reason of theamount	of  the claim or for any other reason, the  suit  orproceeding would not, but for this provision, be within	 itsjurisdiction,  (a)  in Greater Bombay, the  Court  of  SmallCauses, Bombay, (aa) in any area for which, a Court of SmallCauses	is  established	 under the  Provincial	Small  CauseCourts Act, 1887, such Court and (b) elsewhere, the Court ofthe Civil Judge (Junior Division) having jurisdiction in thearea  in which the premises are situate or, if there  is  nosuch  Civil  Judge,  the court of the  Civil  Judge  (SeniorDivision)   having   ordinary	jurisdiction,	shall	havejurisdiction  to  entertain and try any suit  or  proceedingbetween a landlord and a tenant relating to the recovery  ofrent  or  possession of any premises to which  -any  of	 theprovisions of this Part apply and to decide any	 applicationmade  under this Act and to deal with any claim or  questionarising out of this Act or any of its provisions and subjectto  the provisions of subsection (2), no other	court  shallhave jurisdiction to entertain any such suit, proceeding  orapplication or to deal with such claim or question." Section29  deals with appeals.	 It provides that there will  be  nofurther	 appeal	 from  the appellate  order.   Section	29A,however, states that nothing contained in ss. 28 or 29 shallbe  deemed  to bar a party to a suit, proceeding  or  appealmentioned  therein in which a question of title to  premisesarises and is determined, from suing in a competent court toestablish his title to such premises.The  plaint in the suit filed by the appellants in the	CityCivil  Court  clearly asserts that the first  plaintiff	 wasentitled  in law to sublet the premises in question  to	 thesecond,	 and  third  plaintiffs and that there	had  been  alawful subletting of the premises to them.  It372was not necessary for the first plaintiff to comply with theprovisions  of	s.  10 of the Bombay Rents  Act,  1944.	  Itfurther	 alleged  that the Appeal Court of Small  Causes  ofBombay	erred  in  holding that the  first  plaintiff  couldsublet	the  premises  only  if he  had	 complied  with	 theprovisions  of	s. 10 of the aforesaid	Act.   According  topara.  11  of the plaint the plaintiffs asserted  that	theywere always ready and willing to pay the rent in respect  ofthe  said premises and to observe and perform the terms	 andconditions   of	 the  tenancy.	 Paragraph  12	states	 thedeclaration  which  the plaintiffs prayed for in  the  suit,which  is  in the following terms: " The  plaintiffs  submitthat  they are entitled to a declaration that 1st  plaintiffis  a tenant of the said premises within the meaning of	 theBombay	Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act  of1947,  and that the 2nd and 3rd -plaintiffs are entitled  tothe  possession, use and occupation of the said premises  asthe lawful subtenants of the 1st plaintiff in respect of thesaid  -premises".   Clauses (a) and (b) of para. 18  of	 theplaint	contain the relief sought by the  plaintiffs.	Theyare  in	 substance  what  is  stated  in  para.	 12   thoughseparately  stated  for the first plaintiff and	 second	 andthird prayer in cl. (c) of the defendants, their  plaintiffsrespectively.	The para an injunction against	servants  oragents	restraining  them from proceeding further  with	 theexecution of the decree of the Court of Small Causes in suitNo. 483/4400 of 1948.It  is	manifest from the assertion in the  plaint  and	 thenature	of  the relief asked for that the  plaintiffs  basedtheir case on the provisions of the Act.  According to them,the  Act gave the first plaintiff protection and the  secondand  third plaintiffs were entitled to remain in  possessionas  subtenants	of the first  plaintiff.   They	 accordinglysought	to avoid eviction by seeking an	 injunction  againstthe  execution	of  the decree for  eviction.	One  of	 thegrounds upon which a landlord is permitted to evict a tenantunder s. 13 of the Act is that he has since the coming	intooperation  of  the Act, sublet the premises or	assigned  ortransferred in any other manner his interest therein.  The373Act,  however, saved a subletting before  its  commencement,provided  the premises had been lawfully sublet.  "Tenant  "in the Bombay Rents Act, 1944, means " any person by whom oron  whose  account  rent is payable for	 any  premises,	 andincludes  every	 person I from time to time  deriving  titleunder  a  tenant.  " It was never pretended here or  in	 theHigh Court, as indeed it could not be, that outside the	 Acta  subtenancy would continue to subsist and  the  sub-tenantwould  become the tenant when the principal  tenancy  itselfhad been lawfully terminated.  As the definition of  "tenant" in the Bombay Rents Act, 1944, included a subtenant,	thatAct required, under s. 10, certain conditions to be compliedwith for the creation of a lawful subtenancy, as a statutorystatus	of  a  tenant was being	 conferred  on	a  subtenantunknown	 to the ordinary law.  Even a lawful termination  ofthe  principal tenancy would not affect the  subtenant.	  Insuit  No. 483/4400 it was finally held by the  Appeal  Courtthat  the  first  plaintiff  had  not  lawfully	 sublet	 thepremises  and as his tenancy had been terminated he and	 hissubtenants  were liable to be evicted.	The plaintiffs	seekfor  a redetermination of these very questions in  the	suitfiled by them in the City Civil Court.The plaintiffs rely upon s. 29A of the Act in  justificationof  the	 suit  filed  by  them	in  the	 City  Civil  Court.According to them, questions of title are expressly  allowedto be reagitated in a competent Civil Court other than thosespecified  in  s. 28 even if such a question arose  and	 wasdetermined  by	a court exercising jurisdiction	 under	thatsection.   This	 contention  of	 the  plaintiffs  makes	  itnecessary  to construe the provisions of ss. 28 and  29A  ofthe Act.In a suit for recovery of rent where admittedly one party isthe  landlord  and the other the tenant, s. 28	of  the	 Actexplicitly confers on courts specified therein	jurisdictionto  entertain and try the suit and expressly  prohibits	 anyother  court exercising jurisdiction with  respect  thereto.Similarly,  in	a suit relating to  possession	of  premiseswhere  the  relationship of landlord and  tenant  admittedlysubsists between the parties, jurisdiction to entertain	 andtry such a suit is in the374courts	specified in s. 28 and no other.   All	applicationsmade  under the Act are also to be entertained and  disposedof  by the courts specified in s. 28 and no other.   In	 allsuch  suits  or proceedings the courts	specified  in  s. 28also have the jurisdiction to decide all claims or questionsarising out of the Act or any of its provisions.  The  wordsemployed in s. 28 make this quite clear.  Do the  provisionsof s. 28 cover a case where in a suit one party alleges thathe  is the landlord and denies that the other is his  tenantor vice versa and the relief asked for in the suit is in thenature of a claim which arises out of the Act or any of	 itsprovisions  ?  The answer must be in the  affirmative  on  areasonable  interpretation of s. 28.  Suit No.	483/4400  ofthe  Court  of	Small Causes, Bombay  was  admittedly  by  alandlord.   Eviction of the tenant and those to whom he	 hadsublet the premises was sought on the ground that the latterwere  trespassers and the former was not entitled to  remainin  possession, that is to say, that none of the  defendantsto  that  suit were protected from eviction by	any  of	 theprovisions of the Act.	The suit, in substance, was a denialof the right of the defendants as tenants.  The claim of thedefendants was that they were protected by the provisions ofthe Act.  In such a suit the claim of the defendants was onewhich arose out of the Act or any of its provisions and onlythe courts ,specified in s. 28 and no other could deal	withit and decide the issue.The  present  suit filed in the City Civil Court  raised  insubstance a claim to the effect that the plaintiffs were thetenants of the premises within the meaning of the Act.	Sucha  claim  was one which arose out of the Act or any  of	 itsprovisions.  The suit related to possession of the  premisesand the right of the landlord to evict any of the plaintiffswas  denied  on the ground that the first  plaintiff  was  atenant	within the meaning of the Act and the  premises	 hadbeen  lawfully	sublet	by  him	 to  the  second  and  thirdplaintiffs.   The City Civil Court was thus called  upon  todecide	whether	 the  first plaintiff was a  tenant  of	 thepremises within the meaning of the Act and whether he had375lawfully sublet the same to the second and third plaintiffs.The  City Civil Court, therefore, had to  determine  whetherthe  plaintiffs	 had  established  their  claim	 to  be	  inpossession of the premises in accordance with the provisionsof the Act.  As the tenancy of the first plaintiff had	beenterminated  by	the landlord, this  plaintiff  could  resisteviction  only	if he established his right to	continue  inpossession  under  the	provisions  of	the  Act.   On	 thetermination  of the tenancy of the first plaintiff,  outsidethe  provisions of the Act, the subtenancy would come to  anend and the landlord would be entitled to possession.	Thiscould  be  denied  to  him only	 if  the  second  and  thirdplaintiffs  could  establish  that  the	 premises  had	beenlawfully sublet to them and under s. 14 of the Act they mustbe deemed to be tenants of the premises. in other words, theCity Civil Court could not decree the suit of the plaintiffsunless	their claim to remain in possession was	 establishedunder the Act or any of its provisions.	 Independent of	 theAct  the plaint in this suit disclosed no cause	 of  action.Section	 28  obviously contemplates the filing of  any	suitrelating to possession. of any premises to which any of	 theprovisions  of Part 11 of the Act apply between	 a  landlordand  a tenant and it authorizes the court to deal  with	 anyclaim  or  question  arising out of the Act or	any  of	 itsprovisions in such a suit.  The suit of the plaintiffs filedin  the	 City  Civil  Court certainly  is  one	relating  topossession of premises to which the provisions of Part 11 ofthe Act apply and in that suit claims and questions  arisingout  of	 the Act or any of its provisions had  to  be  dealtwith.  It was, however, suggested that the suit in the	CityCivil  Court  was not one between a landlord  and  a  tenantbecause	 the defendants of this suit did not admit that	 theplaintiffs  were  the tenants of the premises  in  question.Section	  28  applies  to  a  suit  where   admittedly	 therelationship  of landlord and tenant within the	 meaning  ofthe  Act  subsists between the parties.	 The plaint  in	 thesuit in the City Civil Court admits that the defendants werelandlords  of  the  premises  at  various  stages  and	 theplaintiffs were their tenants.	The suit, therefore, was376essentially  a	suit between a landlord and a  tenant.	 Thesuit  did  not cease to be a suit between a landlord  and  atenant merely because the defendants denied the claim of theplaintiffs.   Whether the plaintiffs were the tenants  wouldbe a claim or question arising out of the Act or any of	 itsprovisions  which had to be dealt with by the  court  tryingthe  suit.  On a proper interpretation of the provisions  ofs.  28 the suit contemplated in that section is not  only  asuit  between  a  landlord  and	 a  tenant  in	which	thatrelationship  is  admitted but also a suit in  which  it  isclaimed	 that  the relationship of a landlord and  a  tenantwithin the meaning of the Act subsists between the  parties.The courts which have jurisdiction to entertain and try sucha suit are the courts specified in s. 28 and no other.No doubt s. 29A expressly provides that nothing contained ins.  28	or s. 29 shall be deemed to bar a party to  a  suit,proceeding or appeal, mentioned therein, in which a questionof title to premises arises and is determined, from suing ina  competent court to establish his title to such  premises.Even if it be assumed that a claim to a right to tenancy  ofpremises  is a question of title to the premises, is that  atitle  which s. 29A permits a party to establish in  a	com-petent	court other than that specified in s. 28 ? If it  ispossible to avoid a conflict between the provisions of s. 28and s. 29A on a proper construction thereof, then it is	 theduty of a court to so construe them that they are in harmonywith each other.  It is possible to conceive of cases  wherein a suit under s. 28 a question of title to premises  whichdoes  not arise out of the Act or any of its provisions	 maybe determined incidentally.  Any party to the suit aggrievedby such a determination would be free to sue in a  competentcourt  to establish his title to such premises by virtue  ofthe  provisions	 of s. 29A.  On the other band,	 in  a	suitwhere a question of title entirely arises out of the Act  orany  of its provisions, the jurisdiction to try such a	suitwas exclusively vested in the courts specified in s. 28	 andno  other.   That  is to say, a title  which  could  not  beestablished outside the Act but377which  arose under the provisions of the Act by virtue of  aclaim  made  thereunder	 must  be  determined  by  a   courtspecified  in  s.  28 and a title de hors  the	Act  may  bedetermined  in	any other court of  competent  jurisdiction.The Act purported to amend and consolidate the law  relatingto  the	 control  of  rents  of	 certain  premises  and	  ofevictions.  It defined " landlord " and " tenant " to have ameaning	 wider	in scope and concept than those	 words	haveunder  the ordinary law.  Any one, who was a landlord  or  atenant, as defined in the Act, would have to conform to	 theprovisions of the Act and all claims to such a status  wouldhave  to  be determined under the provisions of the  Act  asthey  would be claims arising out of it.  The Act  speciallyprovided  that the courts specified in s. 28 shall have	 thejurisdiction to deal with any claim or question arising	 outof  the Act or any of its provisions and expressly  excludedany  other  court  from having	such  jurisdiction.   It  isdifficult  to  accept the suggestion  that  the	 legislatureintended,  after  setting up special courts under s.  28  todeal  with such matters, that the same should be  reagitatedand redetermined in another suit by a court not specified ins. 28.	By enacting s. 29A the legislature clearly  intendedthat  no  finality should be attached to the decision  of  acourt  trying a suit under s. 28 on a question of  title  dehors the Act.  The provisions of the Act, on the other hand,clearly indicate that all claims or questions arising out ofthe Act or any of its provisions, even though they may be inthe nature of a title to the premises, were to be determinedby the courts specified in s. 28 and no other.Some  reference	 was made to s. 49 of the  Presidency  SmallCause  Courts  Act,  1882 which provides  that	recovery  ofpossession  of any immovable property under Ch.	 VII of	 theAct shall be no bar to the institution of a suit in the HighCourt for trying the title thereto.  The provisions of	thissection render no assistance in the matter of interpretationof ss. 28 or 29A.; Chapter VII of the Presidency Small CauseCourts Act deals with the recovery of possession of48378immovable  property from a person including a  tenant.	 Theprovisions  of	s. 41 onwards prescribe a summary  mode	 forrecovery  of  possession which could even be stayed  by	 theSmall  Cause Court if the provisions Of s. 47 were  compliedwith.	Indeed,	 under	s.  41	no  claims  or	rights	 aredetermined.    In   such   a   situation   it	is   clearlyunderstandable that nothing contained in Ch. VII could be  abar  to	 the  institution of a suit in the  High  Court	 fortrying the title to the immovable property.  In a suit unders.  28 the court has to determine all questions relating  torecovery of rent or relating to possession and all claims orquestions  arising out of the Act or any of its	 provisions.Section	 29 provides for an appeal against the	decision  ofthe  court.   Under Ch.	 VII of the Presidency	Small  CauseCourts	Act there is no provision for an appeal	 against  anorder directing recovery of possession.In  our opinion, the High Court correctly decided  that	 thesuit filed by the plaintiffs, who are the appellants in thisappeal, could not be determined by the City Civil Court.On  behalf of the appellants a request was made that if	 theappeal	should fail, they may be given some time  to  vacatethe  premises.	The High Court in dismissing the appeal	 haddirected  " Decree not to be executed for a fortnight ".  Ingranting  special leave this Court had granted	an  ex-partestay,  staying	the  execution of the  decree  in  suit	 No.483/4400 of 1948 of the Court of Small Causes, Bombay  untilthe 16th day of January, 1956 and had directed that the stayapplication  be	 posted for hearing on that date.   On	that(lay the application for stay was allowed on two  conditionsbeing fulfilled and on the non-compliance of which the	stayorder  would stand vacated.  On February 19,  1957,  anotherorder was passed by this Court when its attention was  drawnto the non-compliance of the conditions stated in the  orderof  January  16, 1956, on the part of the  appellants.	 Thestay order was not vacated as the appellants were ordered todo  certain things and because of the undertaking  given  bythem  that  they would deliver forthwith possession  of	 thepremises to the respondents in379the  event of the appeal being dismissed or decided  againstthem.  -Having regard to the undertaking given, as also	 thefact  that execution of the decree in suit No.	483/4400  ofthe  Court  of Small Causes, Bombay has	 been  delayed	longenough., we are unable to accede to the request made by	 theappellants.The appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.					    Appealdismissed.