PETITIONER:MATAJOG DOBEY	Vs.RESPONDENT:H. C. BHARI(WITH CONNECTED APPEAL)DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/10/1955BENCH:AIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARABENCH:AIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARADAS, SUDHI RANJANBOSE, VIVIANJAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR   44		  1955 SCR  (2) 925ACT:Constitution of India, Art. 14-Criminal Procedure Code	(ActV  of  1898), s. 197-Whether ultra vires  the  Constitution-Sanction under s. 197-Reasonable connection between the	 actand discharge of Official duty-Need for sanction-When to  beconsidered-Power conferred or duty imposed-Implies power  ofemploying all means for execution thereof.HEADNOTE:In pursuance of a search - warrant issued under s. 6 of	 theTaxation  on  Income (Investigation  Commission)  Act,	1947authorising  four  Officials  to  search  two  premises	  inCalcutta,  they	 went  there and  forcibly  broke  open	 theentrance door of a flat in one case and the lock of the doorof  a  room in the other case.	On being challenged  by	 thedarwan	and the proprietor of the respective  premises	theywere  alleged to have tied the darwan with a  rope,  causinghim   injuries	 and  to  have	assaulted   the	  proprietormercilessly with the help of two policemen and kept him in alock up for some hours.	 Two separate complaints-one by	 thedarwan	and the other by the proprietor-under ss. 323,	342,etc.,  of the Indian Penal Code were instituted	 before	 twodifferent    Magistrates.    The   common    question	 fordetermination  in both the complaints was whether under	 thecircumstances  sanction	 was necessary under s. 197  of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure.Held that sanction was necessary as the assault and the	 useof criminal force related to the performance of the officialduties	of the accused within the meaning of s. 197  of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure. Art.  14  does not render s. 197 of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  ultra vires as the discrimination on the part  ofthe Government to grant sanction against one public  servantand   not   against   another  is  based   on	a   rationalclassification.A  discretionary power is not necessarily  a  discriminatorypower  and abuse of power is not easily to be assumed  wherethe  discretion	 is vested in the Government and  not  in  aminor official.In the matter of grant of sanction under s. 197 of the	Codeof  Criminal  Procedure, the offence alleged  to  have	beencommitted by the accused must have something to do, or	mustbe  related  in some manner with the discharge	of  officialduty.  In other words there must be a reasonable  connectionbetween the act and the discharge of official duty; the	 actmust bear such relation to the duty that the926accused could lay a reasonable claim, but not a pretended orfanciful  claim,  that	he  did it in  the  course  of	thisperformance of his duty.The  need for sanction under s. 197 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure is not necessarily to be considered as soon as thecomplaint   is	lodged	and  on	 the   allegations   thereincontained.   The  question  may arise at any  stage  of	 theproceedings.   The complaint may not disclose that  the	 actconstituting the offence was done or purported to be done inthe  discharge	of  official duty;  but	 facts	subsequentlycoming to light on a police or judicial inquiry, or even  inthe  course  of the prosecution evidence at the	 trial,	 mayestablish ,the necessity for sanction.	Whether sanction  isnecessary  or  not may have to be determined from  stage  tostage.	The necessity may reveal itself in the course of theprogress of the case.Where  a power is conferred or a duty imposed by statute  orotherwise,  and there is nothing said  expressly  inhibitingthe exercise of the power or the performance of the duty  byany  limitations or restrictions, it is reasonable  to	holdthat it carries with it the power of doing all such acts  oremploying  such means as are reasonably necessary  for	suchexecution, because it is a rule that when the law commands athing to be done, it authorises the performance of  whatevermay be necessary for executing its command.Gill  and another v. The King, (1948) L.R. 76 I.A. 41,	HoriRam Singh v. The Crown, (1939) F.C.R. 159, 178, Albert	WestMeads  v.  The	King, (1948) L.R. 75  I.A.  185,  LieutenantHector	Thomas	Huntley v. The King-Emperor,  (1944)  F.C.R.262, Shreekontiah Bamayya Munipalli v. The State of  Bombay,(1955)	1  S.C.R. 1177, Amrik Singh v. The State  of  PEPSU,(1955)	1  S.C.R. 1302, Sarjoo Prasad v. The  King  Emperor,(1945) F.C.R. 227, Jones v. Owen, (1823) L.J. Reports (K.B.)139 and Hatton v. Treeby, (1897) L.R. 2 Q.B.D. 452, referredto.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal by  SpecialLeave from the Judgment and Order dated the 4th July 1952 ofthe Calcutta High Court in Criminal Revision No. 312 of 1952arising	 out of the Order dated the 12th March 1952  of	 theCourt  of  Presidency  Magistrate at Calcutta  in  Case	 No.C/2867 of 1950.S.   C.	 Isaacs (C.  P. Lal with him) for the  appellant  inboth appeals.C.  K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India (Porus A.  Mehtaand  P.	 G. Gokhale with him) for the  respondents  in	bothappeals.9271955.  October 31.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyCHANDRASEKHARA	AIYAR  J.-These appeals come  before  us  onspecial	 leave	to appeal granted under article 136  of	 theConstitution  against two orders of the Calcutta High  Courtdismissing Criminal Revision Petitions Nos. 559 of 1951	 and312 of 1952 preferred by the appellants respectively.In  Criminal  Revision Petition No. 559 of  1951,  the	HighCourt  (Harries, C.J. and Banerjee, J.) confirmed  an  ordermade  by a Presidency Magistrate discharging the accused  onthe  ground of want of sanction under section 197,  CriminalProcedure Code.In  Criminal Revision Petition No. 312 of 1952,	 Lahiri	 andGuha,  JJ.  set aside an order made  by	 another  PresidencyMagistrate  that no sanction was required and  they  quashedthe proceedings against the accused.The  incidents	which gave rise to the	two  complaints	 areclosely	 inter-related	and  can be  set  out  briefly.	  Inconnection  with  certain  proceedings	pending	 before	 theIncome	Tax Investigation Commission it was found  necessaryto  search two premises 17, Kalakar Street and 36,  ArmenianStreet	to  inspect, take copies and  secure  possession  ofcertain books, papers and documents believed to be in  them.A  warrant was issued by the Commission for this purpose  infavour of four persons, namely, H. C. Bhari, A. D. De, A. K.Bose and P. Mukherjee, to carry out the search.The   authorised  officials  went  to  the  Kalakar   Streetpremises,  third  floor	 on the morning	 of  December  1950.Matajog	 Dobey, (Appellant in Criminal Appeal No.  67),	 thedarwan	of Kasbiram Agarwala, says that when he	 found	themforcibly  breaking  open the entrance door of  the  flat  hechallenged them and requested them to desist.  They paid  noheed to him, broke open the door, went inside and interferedwith some boxes and drawers of tables.	They tied him with arope and assaulted him causing injuries.  On these facts, hefiled a complaint on 27-12-1950 against H.C. Bhari and threeothers (names unknown) under sections 323, 341, 342 and 109,Indian Penal Code,928Armenian  Street  premises  on the  evening  of	 26-12-1950.Nandram	 Agarwala (father of Kashiram Agarwala) came to	 theplace  and found that they had forcibly opened the  lock  ofthe  door of the room in which there were several books	 andpapers, which they were collecting and packing into  bundlesfor  removal.  He protested, pointed out that their  actionswere  illegal and oppressive, and he wanted a proper  searchlist  to be prepared and proper receipts to be given to	 himfor the books and documents sought to be seized and removed.Thereupon, two policemen held him down and he was  assaultedmercilessly,  kicked,  dragged downstairs, put in  a  policevan,  and taken to the Burra Bazar thana, where he  was	 as-saulted	 again	before being sent to the hospital.   He	 wasbrought	 back and kept in the lock up till midnight when  hewas released on bail.  Setting out these facts, he lodged  acomplaint against the four officials, other subordinates andpolice	officers whose names he did not then know but  couldsupply	later.	The offences mentioned in the complaint	 aresections  323, 342 and 504, Indian Penal Code.	 Later,	 thenames of two police officers were given-Bibhuti	 Chakravartiand Nageswar Tiwari.The  two complaints were sent over for judicial	 inquiry  totwo  different	magistrates.  On 21-2-1951,  the  magistrateheld  on  Agarwala's complaint that a prima facie  case	 hadbeen  made  out	 under section 323  against  all  the  four-accused and under section 342 against the two policemen.  Onthis report, summonses were directed to issue under  section323  against all the accused.  On 1-5-1951, two	 prosecutionwitnesses  were	 examined  in  chief  and  the	case   stoodadjourned to 22-5-1951.	 It was on this latter date that the1st accused Bhari filed a petition, taking the objection  ofwant of sanction under section 197, Criminal Procedure Code.The objection was upheld and all the accused disc barged  on31-5-1951.   Nandram Agarwala went up to the High  Court  inrevision,  but	the order of the Presidency  Magistrate	 wasaffirmed.In Matajog Dobey's complaint, after the termina-929tion  of the inquiry, process was issued only against  Bhariunder  sections 323 and 342 , Indian Penal Code	 for  22-12-1951.  After some adjournments, accused filed on 26-2-1952 apetition  as in the other case raising the  same  objection.The magistrate on whose file the case was pending  overruledthe  objection	and directed that the case  should  proceed.Accused Bhari took the matter on revision to the High  Courtand succeeded.In  Nandram Agarwala's case (Criminal Revision Petition	 No.559  of	 1951) Chief Justice Harries and Banerjee,  J.	heldthat  the  test formulated by the Privy	 Council  in  Gill'scase(1) applied and that on a fair reading of the complaint,bereft	of exaggerations and falsehoods, the officers  couldreasonably claim that what they did was done by them in	 theexercise  of their official duty.  In Matajog  Dobey's	case(Criminal  Revision Petition No. 312 of 1952),	the  learnedJudges (Lahiri and Guha, JJ.) came to the same conclusion inthese  words: "From the nature of the allegations  thereforeagainst	 the petitioner, it is abundantly clear	 that  therewas something in the acts alleged against him which attachedthem  to the official character of the petitioner, that	 is,which attached them to his official character in holding thesearch".Mr.  Isaacs, learned counsel for the appellants in  the	 twoappeals,  challenged the soundness of these conclusions	 andadvanced  three	 categorical contentions  on  their  behalf.Firstly, an act of criminal assault or wrongful	 confinementcan  never  be	regarded  as an act  done  while  acting  orpurporting  to	act  in	 the  discharge	 of  official  duty;secondly,  that in a case where the duty is clearly  definedby  statute and warrant of authority, such acts could  nevercome  within the scope of employment; and thirdly,  that  inany  case  it  was  the	 duty of  the  court  to  allow	 theprosecution to proceed and not stifle it in limine.  He alsourged  that  as the entry on the 23rd December	was  into  awrong  place,  P-17,  Kalakar Street, and  not	17,  KalakarStreet	which  was the authorised premises, the	 search	 wasillegal from the commencement.	He raised the(1)  [1948] L.R. 75 I.A. 41.930constitutional	point that section 5(1) of the	Taxation  onIncome	(Investigation	Commission)  Act XXX  of  1947)	 andsection	 197, Criminal Procedure Code were ultra  vires,  asthey  were  discriminatory  in their  nature,  and  offendedarticle 14 of the Constitution.In  the	 course of his arguments, he referred to  section  6sub-sections   (7)  and	 (9)  of  the  Taxation	 on   Income(Investigation Commission) Act (XXX of 1947) and rule 10 andthe  search  warrant that was issued under them.   His	mainargument was that there was no power conferred by statute orunder  common law on the authorised officials to assault  oruse  force in the execution of their duty and any such	actsmust therefore be deemed to be entirely outside the scope oftheir employment.  He drew our attention to the sections  ofthe Criminal Procedure Code relating to searches and  quotedtwo old English cases to reinforce this position.The search warrant is in these terms:"Warrant  of Authorisation under sections 6(7) and 6(9)	 andRule 8.Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947.Whereas information has been laid before the Commission	 andon the consideration thereof the Commission has been led  tobelieve that certain books, documents and papers, which	 areor may be relevant to proceedings under the above Act in thecases  compendiously known as the S. Jhabbarmull  group	 (R.C. No. 313) and connected cases have been kept and are to befound  in (i) the third floor, 17, Kalakar Street,  Calcutta(ii)  47  Khengraputty	Street, Calcutta-7,  and  (iii)	 thesecond	'floor	and adjoining rooms,  36,  Armenian  Street,Calcutta,  compound, offices and out-houses or other  placesin that locality.This is to authorise and require you,Sri H. C. Bhari,Authorised Official,Income-tax Investigation Commission,(a)  to	 enter	and search with such  assistance  of  policeofficers as may be required, the said premises or any  otherplace or places where you may have931reason	to believe that such books, documents or papers	 maybe found;(b)to  place identification marks on such  books,  documentsand papers as may be found and as you may consider  relevantto  the	 proceedings aforesaid and to make  a  list  thereoftogether with particulars of the identification marks;(c)  to make copies or extracts from such  books,  documentsand papers;(d)  to	 seize	such books, documents and  papers  and	takepossession thereof; and(e)to  exercise all other powers and duties under  the	saidsections and the Rules relating thereto".Straightaway,  it may be conceded that the warrant  set	 outabove specifies precisely the scope of the duties  entrustedto   the  authorised  officials.   Whether  they  took	 anypolicemen with them even at the commencement or whether theywere only sent for when resistance was offered is not clear.This,  however,	 does not matter as the	 warrant  authorisespolice assistance at the search.The  version of the complainants as to what happened at	 thesearch	is set out in the two complaints.  The story of	 theaccused is found in the petitions filed by Bhari urging	 theobjection  under  section  197,	 Criminal  Procedure   Code.Details about the occurrences were also elicited at the	 twojudicial  enquiries.   There are  two  medical	certificatesspecifying  the	 injuries  found  on  Nandram  Agarwala	 andMatajog Dobey.The  minor  contentions may be disposed of  at	the  outset.Even  if  there was anything sound and	substantial  in	 theconstitutional point about the vires of section 5(1) of	 theAct,  we declined to go into it as it was not raised  beforethe High Court or in the grounds of the petition for specialleave  to appeal.  Article 14 does not render  section	197,Criminal Procedure Code ultra vires as the discrimination isbased upon a rational classification.  Public servants	haveto be protected from harassment in the discharge of officialduties while ordinary citizens not so engaged do not requirethis safeguard.	 It was argued that118932section	 197, Criminal Procedure Code vested  an  absolutelyarbitrary  power  in  the government to	 grant	or  withholdsanction   at  their  sweet  will  and	pleasure,  and	 thelegislature  did not lay down or even indicate	any  guidingprinciples to control the exercise of the discretion.  Thereis no question of any discrimination between one person	 andanother in the matter of taking proceedings against a publicservant	 for  an act done or purporting to be  done  by	 thepublic servant in the discharge of his official duties.	  Noone can take such proceedings without such sanction.  If thegovernment  gives  sanction against one public	servant	 butdeclines  to  do  so against another,  then  the  governmentservant	  against  whom	 sanction  is  given  may   possiblycomplain,  of discrimination.  But the petitioners  who	 arecomplainants  cannot  be  heard to say so for  there  is  nodiscrimination	as  against any complainant.  It has  to  beborne in mind that a discretionary power is not	 necessarilya discriminatory power and that abuse of power is not to  beeasily assumed where the discretion is vested in the govern-ment  and not in a minor official.  Further, we are not	 nowconcerned  with	 any such question.  We have merely  to	 seewhether the court could take cognisance of the case  withoutprevious sanction and for this purpose the court has to findout  if	 the  act complained against was  committed  by	 theaccused	 while acting or purporting to act in the  dischargeof  official duty.  Once this is settled, the case  proceedsor is thrown out.  Whether sanction is to be accorded or notis  a matter for the government to consider.   The  absolutepower  to  accord  or withhold	sanction  conferred  on	 thegovernment is irrelevant and foreign to the duty cast on thecourt, which is the ascertainment of the true nature of	 theact.The  objection based on entry into the wrong premises is  ofno  substance;	it  is	quite  probable	 that  the   warrantspecified  17  instead of P. 17 by a bona  fide	 mistake  orerror;	or it may be that the party made an honest  mistake.As  a matter of fact, the account books, etc. were found  inP. 17, the premises raided.Slightly differing tests have been laid down in the933decided oases to ascertain the scope and the meaning of	 therelevant  words occurring in section 197 of the	 Code;	"anyoffence	 alleged to have been committed by him while  actingor purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty".But the difference is only in language and not in substance.The  offence  alleged  to  have	 been  committed  must	havesomething to do, or must be related in some manner, with thedischarge  of  official duty.  No question of  sanction	 canarise under section 197, unless the act complained of is  anoffence;  the  only  point to determine is  whether  it	 wascommitted in the discharge of official duty.  There must  bea  reasonable connection' between the act and  the  officialduty.	It does not matter even if the act exceeds  what  isstrictly  necessary for the discharge of the duty,  as	thisquestion  will	arise only at a later stage when  the  trialproceeds  on the merits.  What we must find out	 is  whetherthe act and the official duty are so inter-related that	 onecan postulate reasonably that it was done by the accused  inthe  performance  of the official duty, though	possibly  inexcess	of the needs and requirements of the situation.	  InHori Ram Singh v. The Crown(1), Sulaiman, J. observes:"The  section  cannot be confined to only such acts  as	 aredone by a public servant directly in pursuance of his publicoffice,	 though	 in excess of the duty or under	 a  mistakenbelief	as  to	the  existence of  such	 duty.	 Nor  is  itnecessary  to  go  to  the length of  saying  that  the	 actconstituting the offence should be so inseparably  connectedwith  the  official duty as to form part and parcel  of	 thesame transaction".The interpretation that found favour with Varadachariar,  J.in  the	 same case is stated by him in these terms  at	page187:  "There  must  be something in the nature	of  the	 actcomplained of that attaches it to the official character  ofthe person doing it".  In affirming this view, the  JudicialCommittee of the Privy Council observe in Gill's case(1)  "Apublic servant can only be said to act or purport to act  inthe discharge of his official duty, if his act is such as to(1) [1939] F.C.R. 159,178.(2) [1948] L.R. 75 I.A. 41.934lie within the scope of his official duty .... The test	 maywell  be  whether  the public servant,	if  challenged,	 canreasonably  claim that, what he does, he does in  virtue  ofhis office". Hori Ram's case(1) is referred to with approvalin the later ease of Lieutenant Hector Thomas Huntley v. TheKing-Emperor(1)	 but  the  test laid down that	it  must  beestablished  that the act complained of was an official	 actappears	 to  us	 unduly	 to narrow down	 the  scope  of	 theprotection afforded by section 197 of the Criminal ProcedureCode  as  defined and understood in the earlier	 case.	 Thedecision  in  Meads  v. The King(1) does not  carry  us	 anyfurther; it adopts the reasoning in Gill's case(1). There are two cases of this Court to which reference may bemade  here.  In Shreekantiah Ramayya Munipalli v. The  Stateof  Bombay(1),	Bose,  J. observes as follows:	"Now  it  isobvious	 that  if  section  197	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  is  construed  too  narrowly,  it  can  never  beapplied, for of course, it is no part of an official's	dutyto  commit an offence and never can be.	 But it is  not	 theduty  we  have	to examine so much as the  act,	 because  anofficial  act can be performed in the discharge of  officialduty  as  well	as in dereliction of it.   The	section	 hascontent	 and  its  language must  be  given  meaning".	 Thequestion  of previous sanction also arose in Amrik Singh  v.The  State of PEPSU(6).	 A fairly lengthy discussion of	 theauthorities  is followed up with this summary: "If the	actscomplained  of are so integrally connected with	 the  dutiesattaching to the office as to be inseparable from them, thensanction  under	 section 197(1) would be necessary;  but  ifthere  was  no	necessary connection between  them  and	 theperformance of those duties, the official status  furnishingonly  the  occasion  or opportunity for the  acts,  then  nosanction would be required".The  result of the foregoing discussion is this: There	mustbe a reasonable connection between the act and the dischargeof official duty; the act must bear such(1)  [1939] F.C.R. 159,178,(2)  [1944] F.C.R. 262.(3)  [1948] L.R. 75 I.A. 185.(4)  [1948] L.R. 75 I.A. 41.(5)  [1955] 1 S.C.R 1177, 1186.(6)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1302, 1307, 1308.relation   to  the  duty  that	the  accused  could  lay   areasonable,  but not a pretended or fanciful claim, that  hedid it in the course of the performance of his duty.Is  the	 need for sanction to be considered as soon  as	 thecomplaint   is	lodged	and  on	 the   allegations   thereincontained?  At first sight, it seems as though there is somesupport for this view in Hori Ram's case and also in  SarjooPrasad	v. The King-Emperor(1).	 Sulaiman, J. says  that  asthe  prohibition  is  against the  institution	itself,	 itsapplicability  must be judged in the first instance  at	 theearliest  stage	 of  institution.   Varadachariar,  J.	alsostates	that the question must be determined with  referenceto  the	 nature of the allegations made against	 the  publicservant	 in the criminal proceeding.  But a careful  perusalof  the later parts of their judgments shows that  they	 didnot  intend to lay down any such proposition.  Sulaiman,  J.refers (at page 179) to the prosecution case as disclosed bythe  complaint	or  the police report and he  winds  up	 thediscussion  in these words: "Of course, if the case  as	 putforward	 fails	or  the defence	 establishes  that  the	 actpurported   to	be  done  is  in  execution  of	 duty,	 theproceedings  will  have	 to be	dropped	 and  the  complaintdismissed  on  that ground".  The other learned	 Judge	alsostates	at  page  185, "At this stage we have  only  to	 seewhether the case alleged against the appellant or sought  tobe proved against him relates to acts done or purporting  tobe  done by him in the execution of his duty".	It  must  beso.  The question may arise at any stage of the proceedings.The complaint may not disclose that the act constituting theoffence was done or purported to be done in the discharge ofofficial  duty; but facts subsequently coming to light on  apolice	or  judicial inquiry or even in the  course  of	 theprosecution  evidence  at  the	trial,	may  establish	 thenecessity  for sanction.  Whether sanction is  necessary  ornot  may  have to be determined from stage  to	stage.	 Thenecessity may reveal itself in the course of the progress ofthe case.We are not prepared to concede in favour of the(1)  [1945] F.C.R. 227,936appellants   the  correctness  of  the	extreme	  proportionadvanced by Mr. Isaacs on their behalf that when obstructionis  laid  or resistance offered against	 an  authorised	 andtherefore  lawful  search, the officials  conducting  the  -search	have no right to remove or cause to be	removed	 theobstruction  or resistance by the employment  of  reasonableforce,	and their remedy is only to resort to the police  orthe  magistracy	 with  a  complaint.   Such  a	view   wouldfrustrate the due discharge of the official duty and  defeatthe very object of the search, as the books, etc.. might  besecreted  or  destroyed	 in  the  interval;  and  it   wouldencourage obstruction or resistance even to lawful acts.  Itmay be that more than reasonable force is used to clear	 theobstruction  or remove the resistance, but that would  be  afit  subject-matter for inquiry during the  proceedings;  itwould not make the act of removal improper or unlawful.	  Itis a matter for doubt if Chapters V and VII of the  CriminalProcedure  Code can be read as an exhaustive enumeration  ofall  the powers of a search party.  Anyhow, section 6,	sub-section	 (9) of the Investigation Commission Act  makes	 theprovisions  relating to searches applicable only "go far  asthey can be made applicable".The  two English cases relied on are scarcely of  any  help.In Jones v. Owen"), a rather startling view was taken that apower to apprehend a person for a statutory offence did	 notinclude a power to move that person gently aside.  Hatton v.Treeby(2)  was	a  case where the Act  of  Parliament  whichcreated a new offence did not in itself provide for a  powerof detention of the offender.Where  a power is conferred or a duty imposed by statute  orotherwise'  and there is nothing said  expressly  inhibitingthe exercise of the power or the performance of the duty  byany  limitations or restrictions, it is reasonable  to	holdthat it carries with it the power of doing all such acts  oremploying  such means as are reasonably necessary  for	suchexecution.   If	 in  the  exercise  of	the  power  or	 theperformance(1)  [1823] L.J. Reports (K.B.) 139; 2 D. & R. 600.(2)  [1897] L.R.2 Q.B.D. 452.937of  the official duty, improper or unlawful  obstruction  orresistance  is encountered, there must be the right  to	 usereasonable  means to remove the obstruction or overcome	 theresistance.  This accords with commonsense and does not seemcontrary  to  any principle -of law.  The true	position  isneatly	stated	thus in Broom's Legal Maxims, 10th  Ed.,  atpage  312: "It is a rule that when the law commands a  thingto be done, it authorises the performance of whatever may benecessary for executing its command".Let  us	 however  assume that Mr. Isaacs  is  right  in	 hiscontention.   Still, it can be urged that the accused  couldclaim  that  what  they did was in the	discharge  of  theirofficial duty.	The belief that they had a right to get	 ridof  the	 obstruction  then and there  by  binding  down	 thecomplainants  or  removing  them from  the  place  might  bemistaken,  but, surely, it could not be said that their	 actwas  necessarily  mala fide and entirely  divorced  from  orunconnected  with the dig' charge of their duty that it	 wasan  independent act maliciously done or perpetrated.,  They.could  reasonably claim that what they did was in virtue  oftheir  official duty, whether the claim is found  ultimatelyto be well-founded or not.Reading	 the  complaints  alone in  these  two	cases,	evenwithout the details of facts as narrated by the witnesses atthe judicial inquiries, it is fairly clear that the  assaultand use of criminal force, etc. alleged against the  accusedare definitely related to the performance of their  officialduties.	 But taken along with them, it seems to us to be  anobvious	 case  for  sanction.	The  injuries  a  couple  ofabrasions  and	a  swelling  on	 Nandram  Agarwala  and	 twoecohymosis on Matajog--indicate nothing more than a  scufflewhich  is  likely  to  have ensued  when  there	 were  angryprotests  against  the	search and a pushing  aside  of	 theprotestors so that the search may go on unimpeded.Mr.  Isaacs  finally  pointed out that	the  fourth  accusedNageswar  Tewari  was a constable and the case	should	havebeen allowed to proceed against him at least.  This questionarises only in Nandram Agarwala's case.	 The Magistrate	 whodismissed the com-938plaint	took  the view that theme was no use  in  proceedingagainst	 him alone, as the main attack was directed  againstthe  Income-Tax	 Officials.   No such  grievance  was  urgedbefore	the High Court and it is not raised in	the  groundsfor special leave.We  hold that the orders of the High Court are	correct	 anddismiss these two appeals.