PETITIONER:LILACHAND TULJARAM GUJAR AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:MALLAPPA TUKARAM BORGAVI AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/09/1959BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR   85		  1960 SCR  (1) 693ACT:Occupancy,     relinquishment	  of-Registered	    occupantsurrendering occupancy-Such surrender, if and when can	bindother occupants -Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 (Bom.  V  of1879) s. 74.HEADNOTE:The  suit out of which the present appeal arose was one	 forredemption  of some occupancy lands, owned and mortgaged  bytwo  brothers, S and A, the Khata of the lands	standing  inthe name of S as the registered occupant under s. 74 of	 theBombay	Land Revenue Code, 1879.  The mortgage, which was  ausufructuary one, was executed by S and A in 1888 in  favourof  the	 predecessors-in-interest of the appellants.   By  aRajinama  filed under s. 74 of the Code in 1900, S  made  anunconditional88694surrender of the occupancy.  On the same day the  mortgageesby  a Kabuliyat prayed that the occupancy in  the  mortgagedproperty  might be granted to them.  Both the  Rajinama	 andthe  Kabuliyat	were  granted  by  the	Mamlatdar.   By	 theRajinama  S  did  not, however, purport	 to  relinquish	 theoccupancy on behalf of A. After the death of S, A applied tothe Mamlatdar for the cancellation of the transfer in favourof the mortgagees and registering the mortgaged property  inhis  name.  That application was rejected.  The heirs of  S,claiming  also	to be the heirs of A, brought the  suit	 forredemption.   The  defence of the appellants  was  that	 theplaintiffs  were  not the heirs of A and that the  right  ofredemption in the entire occupancy had been extinguished  bythe  Rajinama.	The administrators of the estate of  A	werethen added as defendants but were later on transposed to thecategory  of co-plaintiffs.  The courts below found  againstthe  appellants.  Hence this appeal by special	leave.	 Thequestion  for determination was whether the surrender  by  Samounted  to  a	 relinquishment	 of  the  entire   occupancyincluding the share of A.Held, that the Rajinama could in no way affect the right  ofA to his share, in the occupancy and the right of redemptionin respect of his share still subsisted.Under  s. 74 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879,  rightlyconstrued,  the	 registered  occupant  had  no	inherent  orindependent right, in the absence of any authority,  expressor  implied,  which  must be clearly  pleaded  and  strictlyproved,	 to give a notice of relinquishment so as to  affectthe  interest  of  other occupants as  well.   Although	 thesection	  conferred  certain  rights  and  imposed   certainobligations on the registered occupant, it was not  intendedto take away the rights of other occupants.Lalchand  Sakharam  Marwadi v. Khendu Kedu Ugbade,  22	Bom.L.R. 1431, referred to.Held,  further, that even though A's application to get	 themortgaged  property  registered his name had  failed,  therecould  be  no  question	 of  adverse  possession  since	 thepossession  of	the mortgagees had a lawful  origin  in	 theusufructuary  mortgage.	  Nor  could  a	 mere  assertion  ofadverse title affect the subsisting equity of redemption  orshorten the prescribed period of limitation for the suit.Khiarajmal v. Diam, I.L.R. 32 Cal. 296, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 24 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedMarch 11, 1949, of the Bombay High Court, in Letters  PatentAppeal	No.  22	 of 1945, arising out of  the  judgment	 anddecree	dated  August  3, 1944, of the said  High  Court  inSecond Appeal No. 754 of1942.695M. S. K. Sastri, for the appellants.Naunit Lal, for respondents.1959.	September  11.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byDAS  C.	 J.-This appeal by special leave has arisen  out  ofOriginal  Suit	No. 582 of 1937 filed in the  Court  of	 theSubordinate Judge of Chikodi by one Tukaram Shidappa Borgavialias  Teli  (since deceased) and his son  Mallappa  TukaramBorgavi	 alis  Teli  (1st  respondent  herein)	against	 theappellants for the redemption of certain mortgaged  propertyand possession thereof free from encumbrances and for  otherancillary reliefs.  The mortgaged property consists of R. S.No. 301	  which	 is Devasthan Inam Lands burdened  with	 theobligation to supply oil for Nand Deep, i.e., keeping a lampalways	burning before Shri Tholaba Deity in the village  ofNipani.	  The  said  property  originally  belonged  to	 twobrothers  Shiddappa  and Annappa.  The khata  of  the  land,however,  stood in the name of Shiddappa as  the  registeredoccupant  under s. 74 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code,	1879(Bombay Act V of 1879).The  facts  material  for our present  purpose	may  now  bestated. On January 23, 1888, Shiddappa and  Annappa executeda  usufructuary	 mortgage (Ex.D-51) in	favour	of  LalchandBhavanchand  Gujar  and Tuljaram Bhavanchand Gujar  for	 Rs.1,300 made up of Rs. 1,100 due under a previous mortgage andRs. 200 presently advanced in cash.  That deed provided thatthe mortgage money would be repaid within a period of  threeyears  and that the mortgagors would pay the judi and  incurthe  expenses  of the Nand Deep and that on failure  of	 themortgagors to meet the said out goings, the mortgagees wouldincur  the said expenses and add the same to their claim  onthe mortgage.  On March 10, 1900, Shiddappa alone executed asimple	mortgage  (Ex.	D-52) for Rs. 600 in favour  of	 thesame  mortgagees.   A  part of the  consideration  for	thissimple	mortgage  consisted of moneys borrowed by  both	 thebrothers  on  bonds executed by both of them.	This  simplemortgage deed provided696that the mortgagees would bear the expenses of the Nand Deepand  debit  the	 same  to the  mortgagors  in  the  mortgageaccount.  On March 22, 1900, before the simple mortgage deedwas  presented	for  registration,  Shidappa,  who  was	 theregistered  occupant,  gave a Rajinama under s.	 74  of	 theBombay	Revenue	 Code  recording his  desire  to  submit  anunconditional  surrender of the above mentioned khata of  R.S.  No. 307 from the end of the then current year.   On	 thesame  day,  the mortgagees by a Kabuliyat  prayed  that	 theoccupancy in the mortgaged property may be granted to  them.Both  the Rajinama and the Kabuliyat were sanctioned by	 theMamlatdar on May 5,1900.  Shiddappa having died, Annappa  in1905  applied to the Mamlatdar alleging that  the  mortgagedproperty was Devasthan Inam and praying for the cancellationof the transfer in favour of the mortgagees and for  placingthe  mortgaged property in his name.  This  application	 wasrejected.   In	1907 Shiddappa's son Tukaram  (the  originalfirst	plaintiff   herein)and	Annappa,  the	brother	  ofShiddappa,  filed suits against the mortgagees for  accountsto  be	taken under the Deccan Agriculturists'	Relief	Act.That  suit  having  been dismissed,  they  appealed  to	 theDistrict  Court, Belgaum, but that appeal was  dismissed  onMarch  15, 1909.  Annappa again applied for the lands  beingput  in	 his  possession,  but	that  application  also	 wasrejected on August 4, 1910.  Thereafter, in 1911 Annappa andTukaram,  the  brother and son	respectively  of  Shiddappa,filed  C.  S.  No.  362	 of  1911  under  the  same   DeccanAgriculturists' Relief Act for the same reliefs.  That	suitwas also dismissed and the appeal there from met with a likefate  on  March 17,1914.  In 1922 Annappa died	without	 anyissue.	 The  mortgagee	 Lalchand  died	 issueless  and	 themortgagee  Tuljaram  died  leaving  a  son  named  LilachandTuljaram   who	became	entitled  to  the  entire   mortgagesecurities.   On  November  1, 1937, Tukaram  and,  his	 sonGanpat, alleging that they were the legal representatives ofboth  Shiddappa and Annappa, filed Original Suit No. 586  of1937,	out  of	 which	this  appeal  arises,  against	 theappellants  Lilachand and his three sons for the  redemptionof the mortgages.  In the697written statement the defendants-appellants pleaded that thedeceased Shiddappa having sold the mortgaged property to themortgagees, the equity of redemption became extinguished andthat  as  Shiddappa alone was the registered  occupant,	 theRajinama  given	 by him, was valid and binding	on  Annappa.They further alleged that the plaintiffs were not the  heirsof  the	 deceased  Annappa, for the latter  had	 died  afterhaving transferred his interests in the mortgaged propertiesto  others.  It transpires that Annappa died in	 1922  afterhaving	made  and  published his  last	will  and  testamentbequeathing his interest in the mortgaged properties to	 oneKrishna Kallappa, that Krishna Kallappa applied for  Lettersof Administration in respect of Annappa's estate and that inspite	of   the   opposition	of   Tukaram,	Letters	  ofAdministration	with a copy of the will annexed was  grantedto Krishna Kallappa.  Krishna Kallappa having died, his foursons were added as party defendants to this suit and then ontheir  own application they were transposed to the  categoryof plaintiffs.The trial Court held that the Rajinama executed by Shiddappadid  not  extinguish  the title of  the	 mortgagors  in	 themortgaged property, that the plaintiffs were agriculturists,that they were bound to pay the amount also under the simplemortgage  and  that  on taking accounts	 the  mortgages	 hadredeemed  themselves.  Accordingly the trial court passed  adecree for possession declaring that both the mortgages	 hadbeen satisfied.	 The mortgagees, defendants 1 to 4, appealedto the District Court, Belgaum, in Regular Civil Appeal	 No.322 of 1940.  The District Court held that by the  Rajinama,Shiddappa  intended to convey the title in the suit land  tothe mortgagees and hence Shiddappa's heirs, the plaintiffs 1and  2, could not claim redemption of Shiddappa's  one	halfshare  in  the suit land.  As regards Annappa's	 share,	 thelearned	 Judge held that the Rajinama had not the effect  oftransferring  the interest of Annappa to the mortgagees	 andthat   inasmuch	 as  the  mortgages  were  subsisting,	 thedefendants  could not acquire title by	adverse	 possession.In  this view he allowed the appeal in part with the  resultthat698the suit was dismissed so far as the claims of plaintiffs  1and 2 were concerned but the claims of plaintiffs 3 to 6  asthe  legal representatives of Annappa were upheld  and	theywere  allowed to redeem Annappa's one half share of  and  inthe mortgaged property on payment of one half of the amountsdue under the two mortgages.  The mortgagee-defendants 1  to4  appealed  to the High Court in Second Appeal No.  754  of1942  against that part of the decree which  rejected  theirclaim  to  Annappa's share and the plaintiffs 1 and  2	alsofiled  Second Appeal No. 1011 of 1942 against the  dismissalof their claim for redemption of one half share of Shiddappain  the mortgaged property.  Both the appeals were  disposedof by a common judgment by Weston, J. The learned Judge heldthat,  so  far	as  Shiddappa's	 share	was  concerned,	 theRajinama was a complete relinquishment of his interest,	 butas  regards  Annappa's share, he agreed	 with  the  DistrictJudge's	 conclusion that Shiddappa could not bind  Annappa'sshare  by  the Rajinama and in this view of  the  matter  hedismissed  both the appeals.  Against this decree  both	 theparties preferred Letters Patent Appeals, namely, L.P.A. No.22  of 1945 which was filed by defendants 1 to 4 and  L.P.A.No.  16 of 1945 which was filed by plaintiffs 1 and  2.	 TheDivision  Bench	 dismissed both the  appeals.	The  presentplaintiff  No.	1, the son of Tukaram (the deceased  son  ofShiddappa who was the original plaintiff No. 1) has not comeup  to	this  Court  and, therefore,  the  decision  of	 theDivision  Bench has become final so far as he is  concerned.The  High Court having refused to grant leave to  appeal  tothis Court, the mortgagees defendants 1 to 4 applied to	 andobtained from this Court special leave to appeal against thedecision  of the Division Bench in so far as it	 upheld	 therejection  of  their claims to Annappa's half share  in	 themortgaged   property.	Hence  the  present   appeal.	 Theplaintiffs respondents, who are the legal representatives ofAnnappa	 and  against whom the present appeal  is  directed,have not entered appearance in this appeal.Learned	 advocate appearing in support of the  appeal  urgesthat the Rajinama and the Kabuliyat taken699together  evidenced a transfer of title from the  mortgagorsto the mortgagees and, therefore, operated to extinguish theequity	of  redemption	not only of Shiddappa  but  also  ofAnnappa,  for  there is sufficient evidence on	record	thatShiddappa was the manager and karta of the joint family	 andthat  in the matter of passing the Rajinama he had acted  inthat  capacity and, therefore, the Rajinama was	 binding  onhis  brother Annappa.  As pointed out by the Division  Benchin their judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal, this case ofShiddappa  having  acted as karta was nowhere  made  by	 thedefendants-appellants  in  their written statement  and,  inagreement with the High Court, we declined to allow  learnedadvocate  for  the appellants to make out such a  new  case.This  case being thus out of the way, learned  advocate	 forthe  appellants	 urges that under s. 74 of the	Bombay	LandRevenue Code, as Shiddappa was the registered occupant,	 theRajinama filed by him operated upon the entire occupancy andamounted  to  a	 relinquishment of the rights  of  both	 thebrothers  Shiddappa and Annappa.  Section 74 of	 the  BombayLand Revenue Act, as it stood at all material times, ran  asfollows :"  An  occupant	 may,  by  giving  written  notice  to	 theMamlatdar  or  Mahalkari, relinquish his  occupancy,  eitherabsolutely or in favour of a specified person; provided thatsuch  relinquishment applied to the entire occupancy  or  towhole  survey  numbers,	 or  recognized	 shares	 of   SurveyNumbers.An absolute relinquishment shall be deemed to to have effectfrom the close of the current year, and notice thereof	mustbe given before the 31st March in such year, or before	suchother  date as may be from time to time prescribed  in	thisbehalf for each district by the Governor in Council.A relinquishment in favour of a specified person may be madeat any time.When  there  are  more occupants than  one,  the  notice  ofrelinquishment must be given by the registered occupant; andthe  person,  if  any,	in  whose  favour  an  occupancy  isrelinquished, or, if such700occupancy  is  relinquished in favour of more  persons	thanone,  the  principal  of such persons,	must  enter  into  awritten agreement to become the registered occupant, and hisname shall thereupon be substituted in the records for	thatof the previous registered occupant."Reliance  is  placed  on the  concluding  paragraph  of	 thesection which provides that when a relinquishment is made infavour	of more persons than one the principal one  of	suchpersons	 must enter into a written agreement to	 become	 theregistered   occupant  and  his	 name  shall  thereupon	  besubstituted  in	 the  records  for  that  of  the   previousregistered  occupant.  This provision, it is said, makes  itclear that so far as the revenue authorities are  concerned,it  is	the registered occupant who  represents	 the  entireoccupancy  and	the fact that the notice  of  relinquishmentmust, under the section, be given by the registered occupantalso supports the contention that the Rajinama passed by theregistered occupant binds all the occupants.  We are  unableto   accept  this  argument  as	 correct.   The	  concludingparagraph   of	the  section  clearly  recognises   that   arelinquishment	may be in favour of more persons  than	one.It is true that the principal one of such persons must enterinto a written agreement to become the registered  occupant.This is for facilitating the purpose of the Code but it doesnot  mean  that	 the  other  persons  in  whose	 favour	 theoccupancy  is  relinquished cease to have any  right.	Thattheir  right as occupants remains is clearly  recognised  bythe opening paragraph of the section which gives an occupanta right to relinquish his occupancy either absolutely or  infavour	of a specified person.	This right is given  to	 alloccupants,  if	there are more than one,  for  the  singularincludes  the plural.  It is true that where there are	moreoccupants  than one, the notice of relinquishment on  behalfof  any occupant must be given by the  registered  occupant.That does not mean, in the absence of any specific  pleadingand  cogent proof, that a notice of relinquishment given  bythe  registered	 occupant must necessarily be  a  notice  onbehalf	of  all occupants or any particular  occupant  otherthan the701registered occupant, or that the registered occupant has theright  to give such a notice without reference to the  otheroccupants  so as to effect their interest in the  occupancy.Turning to the Rajinama, it is clear that Shiddappa did	 notpurport	 to file, the same on behalf of Annappa nor  had  heany  right  to	do  so; by reason  only	 of  his  being	 theregistered occupant.  In Lalchand Sakharam Marwadi v. KhenduKedu Ughade (1) one out of four brother mortgagors, who	 wasthe  registered	 occupant  of the mortgage  land,  passed  aRajinama  of  the  land	 in favour  of	the  mortgagee,	 whoexecuted  a  Kabuliyat for the same.   The  remaining  threemortgagors  sued  to redeem the mortgage alleging  that	 theRajinama passed by their brother conveyed only his  interestand  nothing  more.  It was held that though  the  conveyingbrother	 was a co-mortgagor with the plaintiffs, he  had  noright to sell their interest in the equity of redemption andthat,  so far' as they, were concerned, he was in  the	sameposition  as  an  outsider.  It is  true  that	no  specificreference  was made in the judgment to s. 74 of	 the  BombayLand Revenue Code, but the actual decision in that case, thefacts  of  which are very similar to those  of	the  instantcase,  quite clearly indicates the court's understanding  ofthe  law applicable to those facts and that law was  nothingbut the provisions of s. 74 of the Code.  In our opinion, ona  correct  interpretation of s. 74, where  there  are	moreoccupants  than	 one in respect of the same  occupancy	eachoccupant has his own rights and the fact of registration  ofone  of	 them  as  the	registered  occupant  attracts	 theoperation of the Code and confers certain rights or  imposescertain obligations on the registered occupant as laid	downin  the	 Code  but does not take away the  rights  of  otheroccupants.   It is true that if any of the  occupants  otherthan  the  registered  occupant desires	 to  relinquish	 hisoccupancy. he cannot himself give a notice of relinquishmentbut  must  give it by and through  the	registered  occupantNevertheless the registered occupant, in the absence of	 anyauthority,  express  or implied, to be clearly	pleaded	 andstrictly proved, has no inherent or independent(1)  22 Bom L.R. 1431,89702right to give any such notice so as to affect the  interestsof the other occupants.	 In our opinion the Rajinama  passedby  Shiddappa  did not affect the right of Annappa  and	 hisequity	of redemption subsisted at all material	 times.	  Inour  judgment  the conclusion of the Division Bench  of	 theHigh Court in the Letters Patent Appeals was correct and theprincipal contention urged before us must be repelled.Learned	 Advocate for the appellant then faintly urges	thatAnnappa's  interest  in	 the property  was  extinguished  byreason of the adverse possession exercised by the mortgageesSince at least 1905 when the claim of the Annappa to get themortgaged property registered in his name failed.  It shouldbe  remembered that the mortgagees came into  possession  ofthe   property	pursuant  to  the   usufructuary   mortgage.Therefore  their  possession had a lawful  origin.   A	mereassertion of an adverse title on the part of the  appellantscannot	affect	the subsisting equity of redemption  of	 themortgagors  or operate to shorten the period  of  limitationprescribed  for	 a  suit for redemption.   In  view  of	 theobservation of the Judicial Committee in Khiarajmal v.	Daim(1),  the  learned  advocate  for  the	appellants  did	 notseriously press the point of limitation any further.No  other point having been urged before us in this  appeal,the appeal must, for reasons stated above, be dismissed.  Asthe respondents did not appear, there will be no order as tocosts.Appeal dismissed.(1) (1904) L. R. 32 Ind.  App. 23.703