PETITIONER:S.   B. ADITYAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:S. KANDASWAMI AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:30/04/1958BENCH:ACT:Election  Petition-Corrupt  Practice-Bribery-Acceptance	  ofgratification, if corrupt Practice of bribery-Representationof the people Act, 1951 (43 Of 1951), ss.82, 90(3) and 123.HEADNOTE:After  the  poll the appellant was declared elected  to	 theMadras	Legislative  Assembly.	Respondent No.	1  filed  anelection  petition  praying  that it be	 declared  that	 theelection of the appellant was void.  In the petition it	 wasalleged that two of the candidates at the election  acceptedmoney  paid to them by the appellant and his election  agentto  induce  them to abandon the contest	 and  they  actuallyabandoned  the contest.	 These two candidates were not	madeparties	 to  the  petition.  The appellant  applied  to	 theElection Tribunal to dismiss the petition under s. 90(3)  Ofthe  Representation  of	 the  People  Act,  1951,  for	non-compliance  with the provisions of s. 82 of the Act  on	 theground	that  allegations of a corrupt	practice  were	madeagainst	 the two candidates and Respondent No. 1 had  failedto make them parties to the petition as required by s. 82:Held, that the acceptance of gratification is not a  corruptpractice  within  the meaning of s. 123(1) Of  the  Act	 andconsequently  it  could	 not be	 said  that  allegations  ofcorrupt	 practice had been made against the two	 candidates.There  was thus no non-compliance with the provisions of  s.82 and the election petition was not liable to be  dismissedunder s. 90(3).JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.130 of 1958.Appeal	by  certificate	 granted by the	 Madras	 High  Courtagainst its judgment and order dated November 1, 1957, in W.P. Nos. 623 and 624 of 1957.1958.	April  30.  May 1. A. V. Viswanatha  Sastri,  T.  R.Venkatarama  Iyer, K. R. Sharma and K. R. Choudhri, for	 theappellant.  The petition is liable to be dismissed for	non-joinder	 of  Muthu  and Meganathan who	were  candidates  asdefined in s. 79(b) of the Representation of the People Act,1951.  The allegation is that Meganathan accepted a gift  ofRs.   10,000   and  in	pursuance   thereof   withdrew	 hiscandidature, and also that Muthu accepted a gratification ofRs. 5,000 and in pursuance thereof, he retired from869the contest.  On the language of s. 123(1) of the Act,	suchacceptance constitutes a  corrupt practice'.  The words I bya  candidate  or his agent or by any other  person'  in	 thesection are to be read with the words offer or promise'	 andnot  with gift'.  In view of the provisions of the  Transferof  Property  Act,  a  I gift' is a  bilateral	Act  and  itincludes  both the giving of the gift and the acceptance  ofthat gift.  Section 99 of the Act shows that a receipt of  abribe  is a corrupt practice.  See ss. 82 (b), 98 and 99  ofthe Representation of the People Act, 1951.  Under s. 99 theTribunal has to record a finding whether a corrupt  practicehas been committed with the consent of any candidate.	Whena  candidate accepts a gift with the object of inducing	 himto  withdraw  his candidature, he consents  to	the  corruptpractice of bribery being committed and such a candidate  isliable	to be named under the section.	 Alternatively,	 theterm  gratification in s. 123 is very wide and includes	 thewithdrawal  of candidature by a candidate to induce  anothercandidate  to  stand  at an  election.	 Affording  of	suchgratification  amounts to a corrupt practice within s.	123.Section	 82(b)	talks  of  I  allegations  of  any   corruptpractice'  and	it, therefore, contemplates  any  allegationrelating to or concerning, a corrupt practice.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, A.  N.  Sinhaand  N. H. Hingorani for respondent No. 1. A  candidate	 whoaccepts	 a  gift from a returned candidate does	 not  commitcorrupt	 practice'  within  the meaning	 of  s.	 123(1)	 andtherefore  is not necessary party to the  election  petitionunder s. 82(b) of the Act.  The section defines the  corruptpractice  of bribery and the words I gift, offer or  promiseby a candidate or his agent or by any other person'  clearlycontemplates the making of a gift.  Further, s. 123(1)	doesnot include the acceptance of a gift as a corrupt  practice.This is also apparent from consideration of s. 124(3) of theAct  which  was deleted by the amending Act XXVII  of  1956.Section 124(3) made receipt of gratification by candidate orintending candidate a minor corrupt practice and s. 123	 (1)made bribery by a candidate or his agent, a major870corrupt	 practice.  The amending Act has done away with	 theclassification	of major and minor corrupt practices.	Someof the minor corrupt practices have been retained as corruptpractices and the rest dropped altogether.  The amending Acthas dropped the provision making acceptance and agreement toaccept	a bribe, a corrupt practice with no material  changein s. 123(1) to bring within it these cases.  By omitting s.124(3)	from  the Act Parliament, therefore,  intended	thatacceptance  of	a  bribe was no longer to be  treated  as  acorrupt	 practice.  Section 99 does not purport to define  acorrupt	 practice mentioned in s. 82(b) ; s. 99 read in	 thelight of definition section does not support the appellant.Cur. adv. vult.1958.  May 20.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR J.-In the 1957 general elections, nine persons  filednomination  papers  for election to the	 Madras	 LegislativeAssembly from the Sathankulam constituency all of which werefound on scrutiny to be valid.	Among these persons were theappellant,  the respondent Kandaswami and two others  calledM.  R.	Meganathan and G. E. Muthu.  Meganathan,  Muthu	 andthree  others whom it is not necessary to name as  they	 arenot  concerned with this appeal, did not go to the poll	 anddropped	 out  of  the  election earlier.   At  the  end	 theelection  was  actually	 contested  by	the  appellant,	 therespondent  Kandaswami	and two other candidates  with	whomalso  this  appeal  is	not  concerned.	 The  appellant	 wassuccessful  at	the poll and was on March  6,1957,  declaredelected.On  April 15, 1957, the respondent Kandaswami whom  we	willhereafter refer to as the respondent, preferred an  electionpetition  under the provisions of the Representation of	 thePeople Act, 1951, for a declaration that the election of theappellant  was	void.	The appellant  was  made  the  firstrespondent to the petition but Meganathan and Muthu were notmade parties to it at all.  Some of the other candidates  atthe election were also made parties to the petition but871it is unnecessary for the purpose of this appeal to refer tothem.The petition was referred to an Election Tribunal for trial.The  appellant	then  made an application  to  the  ElectionTribunal  which	 was  marked I. A. No. 1  of  1957  for	 thedismissal  of the petition under s. 90(3) of the Act.	Thatsection	 provides  that,  " The Tribunal  shall	 dismiss  anelection petition which does not comply with the  provisionsof section 81, section 82 or section 117 ". The	 appellant'scase  was  that	 the  petition had  not	 complied  with	 theprovisions of s. 82.  Section 82 states:" A petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition-(b)  any  other	 candidate against whom allegations  of	 anycorrupt practice are made in the petition."The appellant contended that allegations of corrupt practicewere  made in the petition against Meganathan and Muthu	 andthey  should,  therefore,  have been  made  parties  to	 thepetition  under	 s. 82 and as that had not been	 done,	thatsection	 had not been complied with and so the petition	 hadto  be dismissed under s. 90(3).  It is not in dispute	thatnon-compliance	with  the provisions of s.  82	entails	 thedismissal of an election petition.  The respondent's  answerto  the	 application  was  that	 no  allegation	 of  corruptpractice had been made in the petition against Meganathan orMuthu.	  The  Tribunal	 accepted  the	contention  of	 therespondent and dismissed the application of the appellant.The  appellant	then moved the High Court at Madras  by	 twoapplications,  one  for the issue of a	writ  of  certiorariquashing   the,	 order	of'  the  Tribunal  dismissing	 hisapplication  and  the  other  for the issue  of	 a  writ  ofprohibition  directing the Tribunal not to proceed with	 thehearing	 of  the election petition.  The High Court  by	 itsjudgment   dated  November  1,	1957,  dismissed  both	 theapplications,  taking the same view as the Tribunal.   Hencethis appeal.872It  is	not  in	 dispute that Meganath	an  and	 Muthu	werecandidates.   A candidate has been defined in s. 79  of	 theAct  as	 meaning among others, a person who  has  been	dulynominated as a candidate at any election and both  Meganthanand Muthu had been so nominated.The  only  question that arises in this	 appeal	 is  whetherallegations of corrupt practice are made against them in theelection  petition.  The statements in- the  petition  whichare said to constitute such allegations are in these terms:" IV-A.	 The returned candidate has committed the  followingact,%  of  bribery-corrupt practices  according	 to  section123(1) of Act 43 of 1951 :-(2)  Sri M. R. Meganathan was candidate for Sattankulam	 andTiruchandur  Assembly Constituencies at the  election.	 Thefirst  respondent and his election Agent paid him a gift  ofRs. 10,000 to induce him to withdraw from being a  candidateat  the	 election  from	 Sattankulam  Constituency  and	  inpursuance   thereof  Sri  M.  R.  Meganathan  withdrew	 hiscandidature    at    the    election	from	 SattankulamConstituency,..............................................(4)  One Sri G. E. Muthu, candidate at the election in	thisConstituency  was paid a gratification of Rs. 5,000  by	 thefirst  respondent and his Election Agent for the purpose  ofmaking	him retire from contest and in pursuance thereof  heretired on the contestPutting it shortly, the allegations in the petition are thatthe  appellant	and his election agent paid  Meganathan	 Rs.10,000 and Muthu Rs. 5,000 to induce them to drop out of theelection   and	they  accordingly  abandoned  the   electioncontest.   So all that is said here against  Meganathan	 andMuthu  and  we are concerned only with	allegations  againstthem-  is  that they accepted money paid to them  to  inducethem873to abandon the contest and actually abandoned the contest.Is an allegation then, that a candidate accepted money	paidto  him to induce him to drop out of the election  test	 andactually  so dropped out, an allegation of corrupt  practiceagainst such a candidate ?  The High Court field that it wasnot  and  that	only the giving of a  bribe  was  a  corruptpractice  and not an acceptance of it.	We are in  agreementwith this view.The Act contemplates various kinds of corrupt practices	anddefines	 them in s. 123.  We are concerned with the  corruptpractice of bribery which is the corrupt practice alleged inthe  petition.	Bribery again is of several  varieties.	  Weare concerned with a gift to a candidate for inducing him toabandon his candidature.  This form of the corrupt  practiceof bribery is thus defined in the Act:"Section  123-The  following shall be deemed to	 be  corruptpractices for the purposes of this Act:(1) Bribery, that is to say, any gift, offer or promise by acandidate  or  his  agent or by any  other  person,  of	 anygratification  to  any person whomsoever,  with	 the  objectdirectly or indirectly of inducing(a)  a	person to stand or not to stand as, or	to  withdrawfrom  being, a candidate, or to retire from contest,  at  anelection;Explanation.-For  the purposes of this clause the  term	 "gratification	 "   is	  not	restricted   to	   pecuniarygratifications	or gratifications estimable in money and  itincludes  all  forms  of  entertainment	 and  all  forms  ofemployment  for reward; but it does not include the  paymentof any expenses bona fide incurred at, or for he purpose of,any  election  and duly entered in the account	of  electionexpenses referred to in section 78."is  an acceptance of a bribe, by which word we mean  a	giftmade with the intention specified, a corrupt practice withinthis  definition  ?  We	 do not	 think	it  is.	  What	thisdefinition  makes  the corrupt practice of bribery  is	a  "gift, offer or promise by a candidate or his agent or by anyother  person,	of any gratification" made with	 the  objectmentioned.  The words " gift,874offer or promise by a candidate or his agent or by any otherperson	"  clearly  show that what is  contemplated  is	 themaking	of a gift.  These words are wholly inappropriate  todescribe  the  acceptance of a gift.  The words "  with	 theobject,	 directly or indirectly, of inducing" also  indicatethat  only  the making of a gift is  contemplated,  for	 theobject is of the person making the gift, and clearly not  ofthe  person accepting it.  Mr. Sastri who appeared  for	 theappellant  contended that the words " by a candidate or	 hisagent  or by any other person " are not to be read with	 theword " gift " but only with the words " offer or promise  ".It  seems  to us that this is an impossible reading  of	 thesection as it is framed.  Even on this reading, the  sectionwould  still  contemplate  a  gift " to	 any  person  "	 andtherefore only the giving and not an acceptance, of it.That s. 123(1) does not contemplate the acceptance of a giftto   be	 a  corrupt  practice  is  also	 apparent   from   aconsideration  of s. 124 of the Act which was deleted by  anamendment made by Act XXVII of 1956.  Under el. (3) of	thatsection	 the  receipt of or an agreement to receive  a	giftwith  substantially the same object as mentioned in  s.	 123was  a corrupt practice.  As legislative provisions are	 notduplicated,  such a receipt of or an agreement to receive  agratification  was clearly not a corrupt practice within  s.123(1)	as it stood before the amendment.  The amending	 Acthas dropped the provision making acceptance and an agreementto accept a bribe, a corrupt practice but has made no changein s. 123(1) to bring within it these cases.  Section 123(1)cannot therefore be read as including within the  definitionof a bribe contained in it an acceptance of it.	 By omittings.  124(3) from the Act therefore the  legislature  intendedthat acceptance of a bribe was no longer to be treated as  acorrupt	 practice.   In	 view of this  clear  indication  ofintention,  it would be idle to enquire why the	 legislaturethought	 fit to exclude the acceptance of a bribe  from	 thedefinition   of	 corrupt  practice.   If  the  omission	  isaccidental,  then  it  is for the legislature  to  take	 thenecessary action in that behalf.  We cannot allow any875consideration  of the reason for the omission to affect	 theplain meaning of the language used in s. 123(1).Mr. Sastri then contended that in view of the provisions  ofthe  Transfer of Property Act, there can be no gift  withoutan  acceptance of it by the donee, and therefore whenever  agift is mentioned both the giving and the acceptance of	 thething given are necessarily simultaneously contemplated.  Hesaid  that, it followed from this that the corrupt  practiceof  bribery  by a gift mentioned in s. 123(1)  included	 theacceptance of the gift.	 It is true that a gift contemplatesboth a giving and an acceptance; but these are none the lessdifferent  acts and it is open to the legislature to  attachcertain consequences to one of them only.  It was  thereforeopen  to  the legislature in enacting s. 123(1)	 to  providethat the making, that is to say, the giving of a gift  aloneshould be a corrupt practice.  This is what it has done:  ithas  not made the receipt of a gift a corrupt practice.	  Ithas  deliberately  omitted  the acceptance of  a  gift	fromcorrupt	 practices  described  in the Act.   Though  a	giftcannot	 be  mad(,,  without  an  acceptance  of  it,	suchacceptance has not been made a corrupt practice.Mr. Sastri also contended that s. 99 of the Act showed	thatthe  receipt of a bribe was a corrupt practice.	 Section  98states	that at the conclusion of the trial of	an  electionpetition the Tribunal shall make one or other of the  orderstherein	 mentioned.  Then comes s. 99 which states  that  incertain	 circumstances besides these orders,  certain  otherorders	have also to be made by the Tribunal.  The  materialportion of this section is in these terms:" S. 99-(1) At the time of making an order under section  98the Tribunal shall also make an order-(a)  Where any charge is made in the petition of any corruptpractice having been committed at the election, recording-(i)  a	finding whether any corrupt practice has or has	 notbeen  proved to have been committed by, or with the  consentof,  any  candidate or his agent at the	 election,  and	 thenature of that corrupt practice; and876(ii) the names of all persons, if any, who have been  provedat the trial to have been guilty of any corrupt practice andthe ture of that  practice;and.Mr.  Sastri contended that under this section  the  Tribunalhas to record a finding whether a corrupt practice has	beencommitted  with the consent of any candidate.  He said	thatwhen a candidate accepts a gift made to him with the  objectof inducing him to withdraw his candidature, he consents  tothe  corrupt practice of bribery being committed and such  acandidate is liable to be named under the section.  He addedthat in order that such a candidate can be Bo named a chargeof  the corrupt practice has to be made against him  in	 theelection petition.  The result, therefore, according to	 Mr.Sastri,	 is that a candidate who consents to a	bribe  beingpaid  to  him  to withdraw his candidature is  guilty  of  acorrupt	 practice  and	therefore an allegation	 of  such  acorrupt	 practice  can	be made in the	petition  if  it  isintended  to  have him named under s. 99 and  once  such  anallegation  is	made  in the petition,	s.  82(b)  would  beattracted  and the candidate has to be made a party  to	 thepetition.   He	says  such  allegations	 were  made  againstMeganathan and Muthu.This  contention  seems	 to us	to  be	clearly	 fallacious.Section	 99 does not purport to define a  corrupt  practice.The definition of corrupt practice occurs in s. 123 and	 thecorrupt	 practice  mentioned in s. 99 has to  be  a  corruptpractice  as so defined.  A corrupt practice committed	withthe  consent of a candidate is not in itself a new  kind  ofcorrupt	 practice.  When s. 99 talks of a  corrupt  practicehaving	been  committed with the consent of a  candidate  itmeans  a corrupt practice as defined in s. 123	having	beencommitted   and	  a  candidate	having	consented   to	 itscommission.  The consent by a candidate to the commission ofa  corrupt  practice  by some one  else	 whatever  its	con-sequences  under  the Act may be, is not  itself  a  corruptpractice.  Therefore, to say that a candidate consented to acorrupt practice being committed by accepting a gift made tohim to induce him to withdraw his877candidature,  is  not  to say that he  himself	committed  acorrupt practice.  Such a statement in an election  petitionis  not	 an  allegation	 of  corrupt  practice	against	 theconsenting candidate.  Hence s. 82(b) does not require	thathe should be made a party to the petition.  We wish to	makeit clear that we are not to be understood as holding that  acandidate  accepting  a gift made to him to  induce  him  towithdraw  his candidature is one who consents to  a  corruptpractice  being committed.  We do not think it necessary  tosay anything on that question in this case.Mr.  Sastri then said that the term gratification in s.	 123was  very  wide	 and would include  the	 withdrawal  of	 hiscandidature  by a candidate to induce another  candidate  tostand  at an election.	He contended that the  affording  ofsuch  a	 gratification would amount to	a  corrupt  practicewithin s. 123.	He submitted that such corrupt practices hadbeen  alleged in the petition against Meganathan  and  Muthuand  they  should therefore have been made  parties  to	 thepetition under s. 82(b).  We are wholly unable to agree thatthe  withdrawal of his candidature by a candidate to  induceanother	  candidate  to	 stand	at  an	election  would	  begratification  within  s. 123.	But assume it is  so.	Thatdoes  not  help	 the appellant at all.	Here,  there  is  noallegation  in the petition that Meganathan and Muthu  with-drew  their candidature in order to induce the appellant  tostand  at  the election, so there is no	 allegation  in	 thepetition of corrupt practices having been committed by	themby  so withdrawing their candidature.  It was therefore	 notnecessary  to  make  Meganathan and  Muthu  parties  to	 thepetition under s. 82(b).Lastly,	 Mr.  Sastri  contended	 that  s.  82(b)  talked  ofallegations  of	 any  corrupt practice "  and  it  thereforecontemplated  any  allegation relating to or  concerning,  acorrupt	 practice.   He	 said  that  the  election  petitioncontained allegations against Meganathan and Muthu, relatingto  a  corrupt	practice inasmuch as  it  stated  that	theyaccepted  the gratifications paid to them to withdraw  theircandidature and actually withdrew878such  candidature.  Hence, he said, s. 82(b)  required	thatthey should have been made parties to the petition.  We	 areof  opinion  that  when s. 82(b)  talks	 of  allegations  ofcorrupt	 practice against a candidate it  means	 allegationsthat   a  candidate  has  committed  a	 corrupt   practice.Allegations can hardly be said to be " against " one  unlessthey impute some default to him.  So allegations of  corruptpractice  against a candidate must mean that  the  candidatewas  guilty  of	 corrupt practice.  We are  also  unable  toappreciate  how	 an allegation that a candidate	 accepted  agratification paid to him to withdraw his candidature is allallegation  relating to a corrupt practice.  The  acceptanceof  the	 gratification	does  not  relate  to  any   corruptpractice,  for	we  have  earlier  shown  that	the  corruptpractice consists in the giving of the gift andriot in the acceptance of it.In  the	 result this appeal fails and it is  dismissed	withcosts.Appeal dismissed.