PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:PARSHOTTAM KANAIYALAL.DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/08/1960BENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALABENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALADAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1961 AIR    1		  1961 SCR  (1) 458 CITATOR INFO : F	    1977 SC 912	 (4) R	    1986 SC2160	 (12)ACT:Criminal  Trial-Statute	 barring  prosecution  except	withwritten consent of competent authority-Whether consent	mustbe  in favour of named person Food Adulteration	 Act,  1954(37.  of 1954), S. 20(1).HEADNOTE:A  complaint  was filed against the respondent by  the	FoodInspector  for selling adulterated milk.  Section  20(1)  ofthe   Food   Adulteration  Act,	 1954,	provided   that	  noprosecution  shall be instituted under the Act " except	 by,or  with  the written consent of, the  State  Government  orlocal authority or a person authorised in this behalf by theState Government or a local authority ". On the	 applicationof  the	 Food Inspector consent in writing was	given  by  aperson	authorised  by	the local  authority.	But  it	 wascontended by the respondent that the written consent was  ofno  avail  as it did not in terms name the person  in  whosefavour it was given.Held, that where a prosecution was launched on the basis  ofa  written  consent  granted  by  the  competent  person  orauthority,  it was not necessary to name the complainant  inthe  consent.	The Act did not in terms  require  that	 thecomplainant shall be named in the written consent nor  couldsuch  a limitation or condition be gathered as	a  necessaryintendment  of the provision.  The written consent  was	 forthe  launching	of  a specified	 prosecution  and  need	 notnecessarily be in favour of a complainant authorising him tofile a complaint.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION  Criminal Appeal No. 56  of1959.Appeal by special leave. from the judgment and order  dated-December  18,  1957,  of the former  Bombay  High  Court  inCriminal  Revision  No.	 1671 of 1957, arising	out  of	 thejudgment  and  order  dated June 7, 1957,  of  the  SessionsJudge, Baroda, in Criminal Appeal No. 33 of 1957.H.   B. Khanna and D. Gupta, for the appellant.G.   C. Mathur, for the respondent.1960.	August 31.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby			    459AYYANGAR  J.-This  appeal  by special leave  of	 this  Courtraises	a very short point regarding the construction of  s.20(1)  of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954	 (37of 1954).The respondent owned a milk shop within the Municipal limitsof   the  city	of  Baroda.   The  Food	 Inspector  of	 theMunicipality visited the shop on July 9, 1956 and  purchasedmilk for analysis.  This was sent to the Public Analyst	 andwhen  his  report  was to the effect  that  the	 sample	 wasadulterated,  the  Inspector applied to the  Chief  Officer,Borough Municipality, Baroda, for the latter's consent,	 forinstituting  criminal  proceedings under the  Prevention  ofFood  Adulteration Act, 1954 (referred to hereafter  as	 theAct),  against the respondent.	A consent in writing to	 theinitiation  of	this  prosecution was  given  by  the  ChiefOfficer	 and  thereafter  the complaint out  of	 which	thisappeal arises was instituted charging the respondent with anoffence	 under s. 16 read with s. 7 of the Act	for  sellingadulterated food.The case was tried by the Special Judicial Magistrate, FirstClass,	Baroda.	  Besides  denying his	guilt,	the  accusedraised various technical objections, the principal of  whichwas  that  the prosecution was incompetent because  of	non-compliance  with  the terms of s. 20(1) of  the	 Act.	Thisprovision,  omitting the proviso to which it is	 unnecessaryto refer, runs:"  No  prosecution for an offence under this  Act  shall  beinstituted  except by, or with the written consent  of,	 theState Government or a local authority or a person authorisedin   this  behalf  by  the  State  Government  or  a   localauthority."The  Magistrate overruled these objections and	holding	 theaccused guilty of the offence charged sentenced him to pay afine  of Rs. 300/- and in default to  rigorous	imprisonmentfor  three months.  Dealing with the objection based  on  s.20(1)  of  the Act with which alone we	are  concerned,	 thelearned Magistrate said:" In the present case Baroda Municipal Borough is the  localauthority  and it has authorized the Chief Officer  and	 thehealth officer of the Municipality to59460grant  sanction to institute proceedings under this  Act  byits  resolution No. 222 dated May 7,1956, the Chief  Officerhas  given  consent  in writing to lodge  this	coin  plaintagainst	 the  present accused under the Act on	October	 13,1956.  The said consent in writing is on record at Ex.	10/7and   the  copy	 of  the  Resolution  of  the	Municipalityempowering the Chief Officer and the health officer is	alsoon record at Ex. 18/8.	Thus in the present case there is  avalid consent in writing given by the Chief Officer who	 hasbeen duly authorised in this behalf by the Baroda  MunicipalBorough, to institute proceeding against the present accusedunder  the Act............... The Food Inspector  can  lodgethe complaints under the Act if consent in writing is  givenby a local authority or a person empowered in this behalf bythe local authority.  The food inspector had in the  presentcase  submitted all the papers to the Chief Officer who	 hasbeen  invested with the powers by the Municipality  to	giveconsent	 in order to seek his necessary consent	 in  writingbefore	lodging the complaint against the  present  accused.And  after going through the said papers the  Chief  Officerhad  duly given consent to him to lodge this complaint.	  Itis true that the consent does not bear the name of the	foodinspector  but	it impliedly follows that  the	consent	 wasgiven  by  the	Chief  Officer	to  the	 person,  viz.,	 thecomplainant  food  inspector who sought the  permission	 andnone else."Against his conviction and sentence the respondent filed  anappeal	to the Court of the Sessions Judge at  Baroda.	 TheAppellate  Court  set  aside the  order	 of  conviction	 andsentence  on  the  ground that the Food	 Inspector  was	 notcompetent to institute the prosecution under s. 20(1) of theAct.   Relying	on  the decision of a single  Judge  of	 theMadras	High  Court in Cannanore  Milk	Supply	Co-operativeSociety,  In  re(1), the learned Sessions  Judge  held	thatunder  the  terms of the section, the  only  authority	withwhose " written consent " a prosecution could be  institutedwas the State Government and that neither " the local autho-rity " nor " the person authorized in that behalf by the(1)  (1956) 2 M.L.J. 465.461State Government or the local authority " were competent  togrant	"   written  consents  "  for  the   initiation	  ofprosecutions.	He, therefore, set aside the conviction	 andsentence and discharged the respondent.The  matter was thereafter brought up before the High  Courtof  Bombay by the State by an appeal later converted into  aCriminal Revision petition.  The learned Judges of the	HighCourt  affirmed	 the order passed by  the  learned  SessionsJudge.	 They  disagreed  with the  Sessions  Judge  in	 hisinterpretation	of s. 20(1) that a prosecution could not  beinstituted  with  " the written consent"  of  any  authorityother than the State Government.  They, however, held that "the  written  consent  " should name the  person  who  couldinstitute  the complaint and that as " the consent " in	 thepresent case bad not named the Food Inspector as the  personauthorized  to file the complaint, the prosecution  was	 notlegally	 initiated.   It is from this decision of  the	HighCourt  that  the State of Bombay,  having  obtained  specialleave of this Court, has brought this matter up before us.There  is  here no dispute that " the local  authority theBaroda Municipality, had authorized the Chief Officer of theMunicipality to grant consents under s. 20(1) of the Act forthe  filing  of complaints in regard to offenses  under	 theAct.   There  is no dispute either that	 the  Chief  Officergranted on October 13, 1956, his " written consent " to	 thefiling	of  this complaint against the	respondent.   The  "consent " is in the following terms:"Under	authority vested in the Chief Officer of the  BarodaBorough Municipality............... sanction is hereby givenfor  instituting  prosecution  against	the  following	milkvendors	 for  contravening the provisions of  Government  ofIndia's Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954."The name of the respondent, his address and the date of	 theoffence are then set out and it is followedby a paragraph which runs:"  This	 sanction  is  accorded	 after	going  through	MilkAnalysis Report and other pertinent documents and the natureof offence committed by each of the462above persons as required by s. 20 of the Prevention of FoodAdulteration Act, 1954."We may, at the outset, point out that we entirely agree withthe  learned Judges of the High Court in their view that  onthe terms of a. 20(1) a prosecution could be instituted withthe written consent not merely of the State Government but "of  a  focal authority " or " a person	authorised  in	thisbehalf	by the State Government or a local authority  ".  Inour  opinion,  on the language of the sub-section  no  otherconstruction  appears possible.	 The learned Judges  of	 theHigh Court said:"  The	construction  which  has been  put  by	the  learnedSessions  Judge	 obviously  ignores the	 two  commas,  whichappear in the section before and after the clause " or	withthe  written consent of ". One of the commas  precedes,	 andthe  other follows the clause " or with the written  consentof  " The plain grammatical meaning of this section is	thatthe  written  consent may be of the State Government,  or  alocal  authority, or a person authorised in that  behalf  bythe State Government or local authority.  In our view, underthis  section, the prosecution can be instituted (1) by	 theState Government, (2) by- a local authority, (3) by a personauthorised in that behalf by the State Government, or (4) bya   person  similarly  authorised  by  a  local	  authority.Further,  a  prosecution  can also be  instituted  with	 theconsent of any of these four authorities."Even apart from-the two commas, the construction which foundfavour	with the learned Judge of the Madras High  Court  inCannanore Milk Supply Cooperative Society, In re (1) is	 notpossible  without the sub-section being rewritten  in  theseterms:"  ............ shall be instituted by or with	the  writtenconsent of the State Government or by a local authority or aperson authorised in this behalf by the State Government  ora local authority."Without the insertion of the word " by " before the words  "a local authority ", it would not be possible to exclude thewritten consents of local authorities etc. from the  contentof the sub-section.(1)  (1956) 2 M.L.J. 465.			    463As  already  stated, the reasoning, however,  by  which	 thelearned Judges of the High Court held the prosecution to  beincompetent  was  that " the written consent "	did  not  interms, name the person " in whose favour " the sanction or "written consent " was given.  The learned Judges stated:"  A  written sanction of the nature which we  have  in	 thepresent	 case, or a written consent, without mentioning	 theperson to whom such consent or sanction is given, would,  inour  view, not be a sufficient compliance with the terms  ofthe  sanction................  The present  written  consentdoes  not  mention  the name of the Food  Inspector  as	 theperson competent to institute the prosecution, and thereforewe  must hold that the institution of the  prosecution,	 waswithout jurisdiction".The  learned Counsel for the appellant-State challenged	 thecorrectness  of	 this construction.  He referred us  to	 theanalogy of the decisions rendered on s. 197 of the  CriminalProcedure Code where it has been held that " the sanction  "referred to need not name the person who could institute theprosecution.   We  consider it unnecessary  to	canvass	 therelative  scope	 of the language of s. 197 of  the  CriminalProcedure  Code	 and of s. 20(1) of the Prevention  of	FoodAdulteration  Act.   We prefer to rest our decision  on	 theterms  of s. 20(1) itself.  To start with, the Statute	doesnot  in terms prescribe that the complainant shall be  namedin the " written consent ". The only question, therefore, iswhether such. a limitation or condition could be gathered asa  necessary  intendment  of the provision.   In  the  firstplace,	the  reason of the rule could not suggest  or  implysuch a condition.  The rule has undoubtedly been designed toprevent the launching of frivolous or harassing prosecutionsagainst	 traders.  It therefore provides that the  complaintshould be filed, either by a named or specified authority orwith  the  written consent of such authority.	To  read  byimplication  that  before granting a  written  consent,	 theauthority  competent to initiate a prosecution should  applyits mind to the facts of the case and satisfy itself that  aprima facie case exists for the464alleged	 offender  being  put  up  before  a  Court  appearsreasonable, but the further implication that the complainantmust  be  named	 in the written consent	 does  not,  in	 ouropinion, follow.  In the present case, the Analyst's  Reportwas before the Chief Officer of the Municipality and it	 wasafter  considering that report and the	connected  documentsthat  the  written consent or sanction was  given.   In	 thesecond	place, the subsection itself contains an  indicationthat the written consent is for the launching of a specifiedprosecution,  and  not one " in favour "  of  a	 complainantauthorising  him  to file the complaint.  Omitting  for	 themoment	the  State Government and " the	 local	authority  "which  are  specified  in  the	provision  as  competent  bythemselves to initiate prosecutions, persons " authorised by"   these  two	authorities  are  further   included.	 Theexpression  " person authorised in this behalf	"  obviouslyrefers to a named person who is so authorized.	In the	caseof these four categories, the authority or person filing thecomplaint   has	  itself   or  himself	 to   consider	 thereasonableness	and  propriety	of the	prosecution  and  besatisfied  that	 the  prosecution is not  frivolous  and  iscalled	for.  Turning next to the other class, the  relevantwords are " no prosecution  shall be instituted except	withthe written consent of	Here the emphasis is on the  consentto  the filing of the prosecution, not to the person  filingit.   The preliminary examination of the facts to  ascertainthe desirability and propriety of the prosecution is in thislast  case,  the responsibility of the person  or  authoritygiving the written consent-not of the person who figures  asthe  complainant.   The	 two classes are  distinct  and	 theemployment  of	different phraseology to designate  the	 twotypes of devolution of authority, constitutes an  indication that  in thesecond class of cases-where  prosecutions  arefiled  on  the	basis of written  consents  granted  by	 thecompetent person or authority, the specification of the nameof  the	 complainant  is  not  a  statutory  requirement-theconsent	 being to a specified prosecution.  We,	 therefore,,consider  that	the  prosecution in  the  present  case	 wasinstituted on a465complaint  which fulfilled the requirements of s.  20(1)  ofthe Act.One part of the reasoning of the learned Judges of the	HighCourt was, that in the absence of persons being named in thewritten consent, a complaint might be lodged by persons overwhom " the local authority " would have no control and	thatfor  this reason it was necessary to adopt the	constructionwhich they did of s. 20(1), namely, that the written consentshould name the person authorized to file the complaint.  Inour  opinion,  this apprehension is not justified,  for	 thewritten consent has to be filed by the complainant in  orderto enable the complaint to be entertained, and it is not  asif  the written consent will be available to all and  sundryto  be	filed before the Magistrate.  Besides, even  on	 thereasoning  of the learned Judges of the High Court there  isno  restriction	 as  to the person who	might  be  named  asauthorised to file the complaint.  Normally,, of course, theperson	named would be an officer of the  Municipality,	 buttheoretically  there is a possibility that the person  namedmight  not  be	a Municipal servant, and if  "	the  writtenconsent"  is  in  favour of such  a  person,  the  Municipalauthority  would  have no administrative control  over	him.The  complication  referred to by the learned  Judges  wouldstill be there, even though a person be named in the writtenconsent	 given	by  the local  authority.   We,	 therefore,,consider that this is not a circumstance which of  necessityleads  to the construction that the complainant ought to  benamed in the written consent under s. 20(1).The respondent was not represented before this Court, and inview  of the importance of the matter, Mr. G. C. Mathur	 wasrequested  by  the Court to appear as amicus-curiae  and  weexpress our thanks to him for the assistance he rendered us.The  appeal  is accordingly allowed, the order of  the	HighCourt is set aside, and that of the Magistrate restored.			     Appeal allowed.466