PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:R.   M. D. CHAMARBAUGWALADATE OF JUDGMENT:09/04/1957BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1957 AIR  699		  1957 SCR  874ACT:  Lottery--Prize  competitions,	 if and when of	 a  gamblingmature--Legislation  taxing  Promoters of  such	 competitioncarried	 on through newspaper printed and Published  outsidethe  State--Validity-Test-Territorial  nexus--Gambling,	  iftrade	 and   commerce	  within   the	 meaning   of	 theConstitution--Constitutionality	    of	   enactment--BombayLotteries  and Prize Competition Control and Tax  Act  (Bom.LIV  of 1948), as amended by the Bombay Lotteries and  PrizeCompetition  Control and Tax (Amendment) Act (Bom.   XXX  of1952),	ss.  2(I) (d), 12 A--Constitution  of  India,  Arts.19(1) (g), 301.HEADNOTE:  The first respondent was the founder and Managing Directorof a company, the second respondent in the appeal, which wasincorporated  in the State of Mysore and conducted  a  PrizeCompetition  called  the R. M. D. C. Cross-words  through  aweekly	newspaper printed and published at Bangalore.	Thispaper  had a wide circulation in the State of Bombay,  wherethe  respondents set up collection depots to  receive  entryforms  and fees, appointed local collectors and invited	 thepeople by advertisements in the paper to participate in	 thecompetitions.  On November 20, 1952, the Bombay	 Legislaturepassed	the Bombay Lotteries and Prize Competitions  Controland  Tax (Amendment) Act of 1952, and widened the  scope  ofthe definition of 'prize competition ' contained in S.	2(1)(d)  of the Bombay Lotteries and Prize	Competition  Controland  Tax  Act of 1948, so as to include	 prize	competitionscarried on through newspapers printed and published  outsidethe State and inserted a new section, S. 12A, levying a	 taxon  the	 promoters of such competitions for  sums  collectedfrom  the  State.   Thereupon, on  December  18,  1952,	 therespondents moved the High Court of Bombay under Art. 226 ofthe  Constitution and contended that the Act as amended	 andthe  Rules  framed thereunder in so far as they	 applied  tosuch   prize  competitions  were  ultra	 vires	 the   StateLegislature and violated their fundamental rights under Art.19(1) (g) and freedom of inter-State trade under Art. 301 ofthe Constitution.  The Single Judge who heard the matter  inthe  first  instance as also the court of  appeal  found  infavour	of  the respondents, though  on	 somewhat  differentgrounds, and the State of Bombay preferred the appeal.	 Theprincipal  question canvassed in this Court related  to	 thevalidity.  or  otherwise  of  the  impugned  Act.   It	 wascontended  on behalf of the appellant that the impugned	 Actwas -a law relating to betting and gambling and as such	 wascovered875by  Entries 34 and 62 of List II in the Seventh Schedule  tothe Constitution, whereas the contention of the	 respondentswas that the Act was with respect to trade and commerce	 andcame under Entries 26 and 60 of that List.Held,  that  in	 testing  the validity	of  an	Act  it	 wasnecessary, in the first place, to decide whether it was withrespect	 to  a	topic  assigned	 to  the  legislature	and,secondly,  where it was so and the legislature was  a  StateLegislature  and  the Act purported to	operate	 beyond	 theState,	whether	 there was sufficient territorial  nexus  tovalidate  such operation and, lastly, whether the powers  ofthe  legislature  were	in any other  way  fettered  by	 theConstitution.	So judged, the impugned Act was a  perfectlyvalid  legislation  and	 its  constitutionality	 was  beyondquestion.Regard being had to the purpose and scope of the Act read asa  whole there could be no doubt that all the categories  ofprize  competitions included in the definition contained  ins.  2(1)  (d)  of the Act were of a  gambling  nature.	 Thequalifying'  clause  appearing at the end of  cl.  (1)	mustapply to each of the five kinds enumerated therein, and	 theword  'or' appearing after the word I promoters' and  beforethe  word  'for'  in  the clause  must	be  read  as  'and'.Similarly,  cl. (ii), properly construed, could not  includeany  prize  competitions  other than  those  of	 a  gamblingnature.Elderton  v. Totalisator Co. Ltd., (1945) 2 All E.  R.	624,held inapplicable.The impugned Act was, therefore, a legislation with  respectto  betting and gambling and fell under Entry 34 of List  IIof  the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and was  withinthe competence of the State Legislature.Taxes  on gambling are a well recognised group	of  indirecttaxes  and  s. 12A of the Act in seeking to  tax  the  grosscollections  in	 the hands of the promoters, and  not  theirprofits,  was only following an easy and convenient  way  ofgetting at the gambler's money in their hands and this	madeno  difference in the character of the tax, essentially	 oneon  betting  and  gambling  and	 not  on  any  trade,	and,consequently, the section fell within Entry 62 and not Entry6o of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.A  prize  competition that did not to a	 substantial  degreedepend upon the exercise of skill for its solution would  beof   a	gambling  nature  and  a  scrutiny  of	 the   prizecompetitions offered by the respondents clearly showed	thatthere  was  an	element	 of  chance  to	 start	with,	and,consequently,  they  must be of a gambling nature  and	fellwithin the mischief of the Act.The  doctrine  of territorial nexus was	 a  well-establisheddoctrine  and  could  apply only when  (1)  the	 territorialconnection  between the persons sought to be taxed  and	 thelegislating  State  was real and not illusory  and  (2)	 theliability  sought  to  be  imposed  was	 pertinent  to	thatconnection.  The existence of sufficient876territorial  nexus  in a particular case was  essentially  aquestion  of fact.  There could hardly be any doubt  in	 theinstant case that the impugned Act satisfied all these testsand,  consequently,  it was unassailable on  the  ground  ofextra-territoriality.  Gambling activities were in their very nature and  essenceextra-commercium although they might appear in the trappingsof  trade.   They  were	 considered  to	 be  a	sinful	 andpernicious vice by the ancient seers and law-givers of Indiaand  have been deprecated by the laws of England,  Scotland,United	States of America and Australia.  The  Constitution-makers of India, out to create a welfare State, could  neverhave intended to raise betting and gambling to the status oftrade, business, commerce or intercourse.  The petitioners, therefore, had no fundamental right underArt. 19(1) (g) or freedom under Art. 301 Of the Constitutionin  respect  of	 their	prize  competitions  that  could  beviolated  and the validity of the impugned Act, in pith	 andsubstance  an Act relating to gambling, did not fall  to  betested by Arts. 19(6) and 304 Of the Constitution.judicial  decisions  on	 Art. 1, s. 8,	sub-s.	(3)  Of	 theConstitution  of  the  United  States  and  S.	92  of	 theAustralian  Constitution  should be used  with	caution	 andcircumspection in construing Arts. 19(1) (g) and 301 of	 theIndian Constitution.State  of  Travancore-Cochin v. The Bombay Co.	Ltd.  (1952)S.C.R.	1112  and P. P. Kutti Keya v. The State	 of  Madras,A.I.R. (1954) Mad. 621, referred to. The  King  v. Connare, (1939) 61 C.L.R. 596,  The  King  v.Martin,	 (1939) 62 C.L.R. 457, Commonwealth of Australia  v.Bank  of New South Wales, L.R. (195o) A.C. 235,	 Mansell  v.Beck,  Australian  Law	journal	 Vol. 3o,  NO.	7,  P.	346,Champion  v. Ames, 47 L.Ed. 492, Hipolite Egg Co. v.  UnitedStates,	 55 L.Ed. 364, Hoke v. United States, 57 L.Ed.	523,United States v. Kahriger, 97 L.Ed. 754 and Lewis v.  UnitedStates, 99 L.Ed.475, discussed.JUDGMENT:    CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  134  of1956.   Appeal  under  articles 132 (1) and 133 (I)	(c)  of	 theConstitution  of  India from the Judgment  and	Order  datedJanuary 12, 1955, of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No.  72of  1954 arising out of the Judgment and Order	dated  April22,  1954,  of the Bombay High Court in its  Original  CivilJurisdiction in Miscellaneous Application No. 365 of 1952. C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. M.  Seervai,Porus A. Mehta and R. H.   Dhebar, for the appellant.877   M.  C.  Setalvad, Attorney-General for India,  Sir  N.  P.Engineer, N. A. Palkhivala, R. A. Gagrat, S. V. Subramanian,and G. Gopal Krishnan, for the respondents.G.   R.	 Ethirajulu Naidu, Advocate-General, Mysore,   PorusA. Mehta and T. M. Sen, for the intervener.1957.  April 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS  C.J.-This is an appeal by the State of Bombay from	 thejudgment and order passed on January 12, 1955, by the  Courtof  Appeal  of.	 the  High Court  of  Judicature  of  Bombayconfirming,  though  on	 somewhat  different  grounds,	 thejudgment  and  order passed on April 22, 1954, by  a  singleJudge of the said High Court allowing with costs the presentrespondents' petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution  ofIndia.	 The  said petition was presented  before  the	HighCourt of Judicature at Bombay on December 18, 1952.  In	 thesaid petition there were two petitioners who are now the tworespondents  to	 this appeal.  The first  petitioner  is  anindividual  who	 claims	 to be a citizen of  India  and	 thefounder	 and  Managing Director of  the	 second	 petitioner,which  is a company incorporated in the State of Mysore	 andhaving	its  registered head office at	2,  Residency  Road,Bangalore   in	that  State.   That  petition  was   furthersupported  by an affidavit sworn by the first petitioner  onthe same day.The allegations appearing in the said petition and affidavitmay  now  be  shortly  stated.	 In  July,  1946  the  firstpetitioner applied for and obtained from the then  Collectorof  Bombay a licence, being Licence No. 84 of 1946, for	 theperiod	ending March 31, 1947, to conduct what was known  asthe Littlewood's Football Pool Competitions in India.	Thatlicence	 was  granted  to the  first  petitioner  under	 theprovisions  of the Bombay Prize Competitions Tax Act,  (Bom.XI of 1939) (hereinafter referred to as the 1939 Act), whichwas  then  in  force.  The said licence was  renewed  for  aperiod	of  one year from April 1, 1947 to March  31,  1948.During	that  period the first petitioner paid,	 by  way  ofcompetition tax, to the Bombay Provincial113878Government  a  sum  of	rupees	one  lakh  per	annum.	 TheGovernment  of	Bombay having declined to  renew  the  firstpetitioner's  licence  for  a  further	period,	 the   firstpetitioner  filed  a petition under s. 45  of  the  SpecificRelief	 Act  in  the  High  Court  of	Bombay,	 which	 waseventually,  after  various proceedings,  dismissed  by	 thecourt of appeal on or about March 28, 1949.In  the	 meantime, in view of the delay	 and  difficulty  inobtaining  a  renewal of the licence in	 Bombay,  the  firstpetitioner in or about August, 1948, shifted his  activitiesfrom Bombay to the State of Mysore, where he promoted and onFebruary 26,1949, got incorporated a company under the	nameof   R.M.D.C.  (Mysore)	 Limited,  which  was	the   secondpetitioner  in the High Court and is the  second  respondentbefore	us.  The first petitioner, who was the	promoter  ofthe  second petitioner became the Managing Director  of	 thesecond	petitioner.  All the shareholders and  Directors  ofthe second petitioner are said to be nationals and  citizensof India.  The second petitioner also owns and runs a weeklynewspaper  called " Sporting Star ", which was and is  stillprinted and published at Bangalore in a Press also owned  bythe  second petitioner.	 It is through this  newspaper	thatthe second petitioner conducts and runs a Prize	 Competitioncalled	the  R.M.D.C.  Crosswords  for	which  entries	 arereceived from various parts of India including the State  ofBombay through agents and depots established in those placesto  collect entry forms and fees for being forwarded to	 thehead office at Bangalore.The 1939 Act was replaced by the Bombay Lotteries and  PrizeCompetition  Control  and  Tax	Act  (Bom.   LIV  of  1948),(hereinafter  referred to as the 1948 Act) which  came	intoforce on December 1, 1948.  The 1939 Act as well as the 1948Act,   as  originally  enacted,	 did  not  apply  to   prizecompetitions contained in a newspaper printed and  publishedoutside	 the Province of Bombay.  So the  Prize	 Competitioncalled the R.M.D.C. Crosswords was not affected by either ofthose two Acts.On June 21, 1951, the State of Mysore, however, enacted	 theMysore Lotteries and Prize Competition879Control and Tax Act, 195 1, which was based- upon the  linesof  the	 said 1948 Act.	 That Mysore Act  having  come	intoforce on February 1, 1952, the second petitioner applied forand obtained a licence under that Act and paid the requisitelicence fees and also paid and is still paying to the  Stateof  Mysore the tax at the rate of 15% (latterly	 reduced  to121%)  of  the	gross receipts in respect  of  the  R.M.D.C.Crosswords  Prize  Competition and continued  and  is  stillcontinuing  the	 said  Prize Competition  through  the	saidweekly	newspaper "The Sporting Star" and to  receive  entryforms  with  fees from all parts of the territory  of  Indiaincluding the State of Bombay.	It is said, on the  strengthof the audited books of account, that after distribution  ofprizes to the extent of about 33% of the receipts and  afterpayment	 of  taxes  in Mysore amounting	 to  about  15%	 andmeeting the other expenses aggregating to about 47%, the netprofit of the second petitioner works out to about 5% only.  On  November	20,  1952, the State of	 Bombay	 passed	 TheBombay	Lotteries  and Prize Competitions  Control  and	 Tax(Amendment)  Act (Bom.	XXX of 1952).  This Act amended	 theprovisions  of the 1948 Act in several	particulars.   Thus,the  words  "  but  does not  include  a  prize	 competitioncontained  in a newspaper printed and published outside	 theProvince  of  Bombay", which occurred in the  definition  ofPrize  Competition  in s. 2 (1) (d) of the  1948  Act,	weredeleted	 and the effect of this deletion was that the  scopeand  the  application  of the 1948  Act	 so  amended  becameenlarged  and  extended so as to  cover	 prize	competitionscontained  in newspapers printed and published	outside	 theState of Bombay.  After cl. (d) of s. 2 (1) the Amending Actinserted a new cl. (dd) which defined the word "Promoter  ".A new section was substituted for the old s. 12 and  anothernew section was inserted after s. 12 and numbered as a. 12A.By  this  new  s. 12A provision was made  for  the  levy  inrespect of every prize competition contained in a  newspaperor  a  publication printed outside the State of	 Bombay	 forwhich a licence was obtained under the Act of a tax at	suchrates as might be specified not exceeding the880rates  specified in s. 12 or in a lump sum having regard  tothe   circulation  or  distribution  of	 the  newspaper	  orpublication in the State of Bombay.  It is pointed out	thatthe  margin  of net profit being only 5%, if tax has  to  bepaid to the State of Bombay under the 1948 Act, as  amended,(hereinafter  referred	to as the impugned Act)	 the  secondpetitioner will be unable to carry on its prize	 competitionexcept at a loss.  Reference is also made to the rules framed by the State ofBombay	called the Bombay Lotteries -and  Prize	 CompetitionControl and Tax Rules, 1952 (herein-' after called the	saidRules), which came into force on and from December 8,  1952.The  said  Rules  require the petitioner to  apply  for	 andobtain a licence in Form " H " which imposes certain onerousconditions.   The  petitioners point out that  it  would  beimpossible  for	 them,	in a commercial	 sense	and  from  apractical  point of view, to run the prize  competitions  inthe  territory of India if they are required to	 comply	 notonly  with  the restrictions and conditions imposed  by	 theMysore	State where the newspaper is printed  and  publishedbut  also  with	 the  varying  and  different  restrictions,conditions  and	 taxes imposed by the State  of	 Bombay	 andother  States  in  the territory of  India  where  the	saidnewspaper  containing the advertisements; of the said  prizecompetitions  are circulated.  The petitioners	submit	thatthe provisions of the impugned Act and the Rules, in so	 faras they apply to prize competitions contained in  newspapersand  other  publications printed and published	outside	 theState  of  Bombay, are ultra vires void and  inoperative  inlaw. Upon  the  presentation of the petition a Rule	 was  issuedcalling	 upon the State of Bombay to appear and show  cause,if any it had, why the writ or orders prayed for should	 notbe  issued or made.  The State of Bombay filed an  affidavitraising	  several   technical  legal   objections   to	 themaintainability of the petition and refuting the allegationsand  submissions  contained therein and	 in  the  supportingaffidavit.  It submitted that, as the second petitioner	 wasa corporation , and the first petitioner, who was a ManagingDirector881thereof, had no rights independent of the second petitioner,neither of them could lay any claim to any fundamental rightunder  Art.  19(1) (g) and no question could  arise  of	 anyviolation  of the petitioner's alleged	fundamental  rights.It further submitted that, having.  Regard to the fact	thatlotteries  and	prize competitions were	 opposed  to  publicpolicy,	 there	could  be no " business	 "  in	promoting  alottery	 or  a	prize competition and the  question  of	 theviolation  of  the petitioners' alleged	 rights	 under	Art.19(1)  (g) of the Constitution did not arise.  It  was	alsocontended  that if the provisions of the Act and  the  Rulesoperated as restrictions, then the same were reasonable	 andin  the	 interest of the general public.   Likewise  it	 wassubmitted that, having regard to the fact that lotteries andprize competitions are opposed to public policy, there couldbe  no	"business  "  in promoting  a  lottery	or  a  prizecompetition  and  the  question	 of  the  violation  of	 theprovisions  of Art. 301 of the Constitution did	 not  arise.It  was	 denied that ss. 10 and 12 of the Act  violated	 theequal  protection clause of the Constitution.  An  affidavitin  reply was filed by the first petitioner  traversing	 theallegations,  submissions and contentions set forth  in	 theaffidavit  in  opposition filed on behalf of  the  State  ofBombay.The  main contentions of the present respondents before	 thetrial Judge were:-(a)The	impugned Act and particularly its taxing  provisionswere  beyond  the competence of the  State  Legislature	 andinvalid	 inasmuch as they were not legislation with  respectto  betting and gambling under Entry 34 or with	 respect  toentertainments and amusements under Entry 33 or with respectto  taxation on entertainments and amusements, betting.	 andgambling under Entry 62 of the State List.  The	 legislationwas with respect to trade and commerce and the tax levied bythe  Impugned  Act  was a tax on the  trade  or	 calling  ofconducting  prize competitions and fell within Entry  60  ofthe State List.(b)  The  respondents' prize competition was not  a  lotteryand could not be regarded as gambling882inasmuch  as it was a competition in which skill,  knowledgeand judgment had real and effective play.(c)  The  impugned Act itself contained distinct  provisionsin  respect  of prize competitions and	lotteries  ,-therebyrecognising that prize competitions were not lotteries. (d)  The said tax being in substance and fact a tax on	 thetrade  or  business  of carrying on  prize  competitions  itoffended against s. 142A (2) of the Government of India Act,1935 and Art. 276 (2) of the Constitution which respectivelyprovide	 that such a tax shall not exceed fifty	 rupees	 andtwo hundred and fifty rupees per annum.(e)  The impugned Act was beyond the legislative  competenceof the Bombay Legislature and invalid as it was	 legislationwith  respect to trade and commerce not within	but  outsidethe State.(f)  The impugned Act operated extra-territorially  inasmuchas  it	affected the trade or business of  conducting  prizecompetitions ' outside the State and was, therefore,  beyondthe competence of the State Legislature and invalid.(g)  The  impugned  Act	 offended against Art.	301  of	 theConstitution  inasmuch as it imposed restrictions on  trade,commerce  and  intercourse between the States  and  was	 notsaved by Art. 304 (b) of the Constitution.(h)  The  restrictions	imposed by the impugned Act  on	 thetrade  or  business of the petitioners were  not  reasonablerestrictions  in  the interests of the general	public	and,therefore,   contravened  the  fundamental  right   of	 thepetitioners,  who were citizens of India, to carry on  theirtrade or business under Art. 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution.(i)  That  ss.	10,  12 and 12A of  the	 said  Act  offendedagainst	 Art.  14  of  the  Constitution  inasmuch  as	theyempowered   discrimination   between   prize	competitionscontained   in	newspapers  or	publications   printed	 andpublished  within the State and those printed and  publishedoutside the State.The  State of Bombay, which is now the appellant before	 us,on the other hand, maintained that883(a)  The  prize	 competitions conducted by  the	 petitionerswere a lottery.(b)  The  provisions  of  the impugned Act  were  valid	 andcompetent  legislation	under Entries 33, 34 and 62  of	 theState List.(c)The	impugned  Act  was  not	 extra-territorial  in	 itsoperation.(d)The prize competitions conducted by the petitioners	wereopposed	 to  public policy and there could therefore  be  notrade or business of promoting such prize competitions.  (e)As	 the  petitioners were not carrying on	a  trade  orbusiness, no question of offending their fundamental  rightsunder  Art. 19 (1) (g) or of a violation of Art. 301 of	 theConstitution could arise.  (f)The  second  petitioner being a Corporation was  not  acitizen	  and  could  not  claim  to  be  entitled  to	 thefundamental right under Art. 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution.  (g)In	 any event the restrictions on the alleged trade  orbusiness  of  the  petitioners	imposed	 by  the  Act	werereasonable  restrictions in the public interest with in	 themeaning of Art. 19 (6) and Art. 304 (b) of the Constitution.The trial Judge held:   (a)The tax levied under ss. 12 and 12A of the Act was nota  tax on entertainment, amusement, betting or gambling	 butthat it was a tax on the trade or calling of the respondentsand fell under Entry 60 and not under Entry 62 of the  StateList.  (b)The prize competition conducted by the petitioners	 wasnot a lottery and it could not be said to be either  bettingor gambling inasmuch as it was a competition in which skill,knowledge  and judgment on the part of the competitors	wereessential ingredients. (c)The levy of the tax under the said sections was void  asoffending against Art. 276 (2) of the Constitution.(d)The	restrictions  imposed by the impugned  Act  and	 theRules	thereunder   offended  against	Art.  301   of	 theConstitution and were not saved by Art,884304(b)	inasmuch  as the restrictions imposed  were  neitherreasonable nor in the public interest.(e)The	second petitioner, although it was a company, was  acitizen of India and was entitled to the protection of	Art.19 of the Constitution.(f)The	restrictions  imposed by the impugned  Act  and	 theRules  made  thereunder were neither reasonable nor  in	 theinterests  of the general public and were void as  offendingagainst Art. 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution.In  the	 result the rule nisi was made absolute and  it	 wasfurther	 ordered that the State of Bombay, its servants	 andagents,	 do  forbear from enforcing or taking any  steps  inenforcement, implementation, furtherance or pursuance of anyof  the	 provisions of the impugned Act and the	 1952  Rulesmade thereunder and particularly from -enforcing any of	 thepenal  provisions against the petitioners, their  Directors,officers,  servants or agents and that the State of  Bombay,its  servants and agents, do allow the petitioners to  carryon their trade and business of running the Prize Competitionmentioned  in  the petition and do forbear  from  demanding,collecting  or	recovering from the petitioners any  tax  asprovided in the impugned Act or the said Rules in respect ofthe  said Prize Competition and that the State of Bombay  dopay to the petitioners their costs of the said applications.  Being	 aggrieved by the decision of the trial	 Judge,	 theState  of Bombay preferred an appeal on June 8,	 1954.	 TheCourt of Appeal dismissed the appeal and confirmed the orderof  the trial Judge, though on somewhat	 different  grounds.It differed from the learned trial Judge on the view that hehad  taken that there was no legislative competence  in	 theLegislature  to	 enact the legislation.	 It  held  that	 thetopic of legislation was I gambling' and the Legislature wascompetent to enact it under Entry 34 of the State List.	 It,however,  agreed with the learned trial Judge that  the	 taxlevied	under s. 12A was not a tax on gambling but  that  itwas a tax which fell under Entry 60. It held that there was885legislative competence in the Legislature to impose that taxbut that the tax was invalid because it did not comply	withthe   restriction  contained  in  Art.	 276  (2)   of	 theConstitution.	It  also took the view that  the  tax,	evenassuming  it was a tax on betting or gambling, could not  bejustified  -because it did not fall under Art. 304 (b).	  Itdiffered  from	the learned trial Judge when he found  as  afact  that the scheme underlying the prize competitions	 wasnot  a	lottery	 and came to the  conclusion  that  the	 Actapplied	 to the prize competitions of the  respondents.	  Itheld  that the challenge of the petitioners to the  impugnedprovisions  succeeded because the restrictions contained  inthe impugned Act controlling the business of the petitionerscould not be justified as the requirements of the provisionsof Art. 304 (b) had not been complied with.  The High  Courtagreed	with the learned trial Judge that  the	petitioners'prize competitions were their "business " which was entitledto  the	 protection guaranteed under the  Constitution.	  Ittook the view that although the activity of the	 petitionerswas  a	lottery, it was not an activity	 which	was  againstpublic interest and, therefore, the provisions of Part	XIIIof the Constitution applied to the respondents' business.  Being	 aggrieved  by	the said judgment of  the  Court  ofAppeal,	 the appellant applied for and obtained under  Arts.132(1)	and  133(1)  of the Constitution  a  certificate  offitness	 for  appeal  to this Court and	 hence	this  appealbefore us. The  principal question canvassed before us relates to	 thevalidity  or  otherwise of the impugned Act.  The  Court  ofAppeal has rightly pointed out that when the validity of  anAct is called in question, the first thing for the court  todo is to examine whether the Act is a law with respect to  atopic  assigned to the particular Legislature which  enactedit.   If it Is, then the court is next to consider  whether,in  the	 case  of  an Act passed by  the  Legislature  of  aProvince  (now	a State), its operation extends	 beyond	 theboundaries  of	the  Province or the State,  for  under	 theprovisions   conferring	 legislative  powers  on   it	suchLegislature  can only make a law for its territories or	 anypart thereof114886and its laws cannot, in the absence of a territorial  nexus,have  any extra territorial operation.	If the impugned	 lawsatisfies  both these tests, then finally the court  has  toascertain  if  there is anything in any other  part  of	 theConstitution  which  places any fetter	on  the	 legislativepowers	of such Legislature.  The impugned law has  to	passall these three tests. Taking	 the first test first, it will be recalled that	 the1948 Act was enacted by the Provincial Legislature of Bombaywhen the Government of India Act, 1935, was in force.  Underss.  99	 and 100 of that Act the Provincial  Legislature  ofBombay had power to make laws for the Province of Bombay  orany  part  thereof  with  respect  to  any  of	the  mattersenumerated  in List 11 in the Seventh Schedule to that	Act.It will also be remembered that the 1948 Act was amended  byBombay	Act XXX of 1952 after the Constitution of India	 hadcome  into operation.  Under Arts. 245 and 246,	 subject  tothe  provisions of the Constitution, the Legislature of	 theState of Bombay has power to make laws for the whole or	 anypart  of  the  State of Bombay with respect to	any  of	 thematters enumerated in List II of the Seventh Schedule to theConstitution.	The State of Bombay, which is the  appellantbefore us, claims that the impugned Act including s. 12A  isa law made with respect to topics covered by Entries 34	 and62  of List II in the Seventh Schedule to  the	Constitutionwhich reproduce Entries 36 and 50 of List II in the  SeventhSchedule to the Government of India Act, 1935.	On the otherhand,  the  petitioners,  who  are  respondents	 before	 us,maintain that the impugned Act is legislation under  Entries26  and	 60  in	 List 11 of  the  Seventh  Schedule  to	 theConstitution  corresponding to Entries 27 and 46 of List  IIin  the Schedule to the	 Government of India Act, 1935,	 andthat, in any event, s. 12A of the impugned Act, in so far asit  imposes  a tax, comes under Entry 60 of List II  in	 theSeventh Schedule to the Constitution corresponding to  Entry46  of List II in the Seventh Schedule to the Government  ofIndia  Act, 1935, and not under Entry 62 of List 11  in	 theSeventh Schedule to the Constitution corresponding to  Entry50 of List 11 in the Seventh Schedule to the887Government  of India Act, 1935, and that as the tax  imposedexceeds	 Rs.  250/-  it is void under  Art.  276  (2)  whichreproduces  s.	142A of the Government of India	 Act,  1935.Reference  will	 hereafter  be made  only  to  the  relevantEntries	 of  List  II  in the Seventh  Schedule	 r,  to	 theConstitution,  for they are substantially in the same  termsas  the	 corresponding	Entries of List 11  in	the  SeventhSchedule  to  the Government of India Act, 1935.   For	easyreference,  the relevant Entries in List II in	the  SeventhSchedule to the Constitution are set out below:"  26.	Trade and commerce within the State subject  to	 theprovisions of Entry 33 of List III.34.  Betting and gambling.60.  Taxes    on   professions,	  trades,   callings,	 andemployments.62.  Taxes  on luxuries, including taxes on  entertainments,amusements, betting and gambling."  In order to correctly appreciate the rival contentions andto come to a decision as to the particular Entry or  Entriesunder  which the impugned Act including s. 12A	thereof	 hasbeen  enacted, it is necessary to examine and  to  ascertainthe  purpose and scope of the impugned legislation.  It	 maybe  mentioned that the 1939 Act was enacted to regulate	 andlevy a tax on prize competitions in the Province of  Bombay.It  did	 not  deal  with lotteries at  all.   That  Act	 wasrepealed by the 1948 Act which was enacted to control and tolevy  a tax not only on prize competitions but on  lotteriesalso.  It is not unreasonable to conclude that the  clubbingtogether of lotteries and prize competitions in the 1948 Actindicates that in the view of the Legislature the two topicswere, in a way, allied to each other.  As already indicated,the  1948 Act was amended in 1952 by Bombay Act XXX of	1952so  as	to  extend  its	 operation  to	prize	competitionscontained  in newspapers printed and published	outside	 theState of Bombay.  In s. 2(1) (d) of the impugned Act will befound  the  definition	of " prize competition	"  to  whichreference will be made hereafter in greater detail.   Clause(dd)  was inserted in s. 2(1) in 1952  defining	 "promoter".Section 3 declares that subject to the888provisions  of	the Act, all lotteries and  all	 prize	com-petitions are unlawful.	 This is a clear indication that thelegislature regarded lotteries and prize competitions as  onthe  same footing and declared both of them to be  unlawful,subject, of course, to the provisions of the Act.  Section 4creates	 certain offences in connection with  lotteries	 andcompetitions punishable, as therein mentioned.	We may	skipover  ss. 5 and 6 which deal exclusively with lotteries	 andpass on to s. 7. Section 7 provides that a prize competitionshall be deemed to be an unlawful prize competition unless alicence in respect of such competition has been obtained  bythe promoter thereof.  There are two provisos to the sectionwhich  are not material for our present purpose.  Section  8imposes	 certain a additional penalty for  contravention  ofthe provisions of s. 7. -Section 9 regulates the granting oflicences on such fees and conditions and in such form as maybe prescribed, that is to say prescribed by rules.   Section10 makes it lawful for the Government, by general or specialorder,	to,  inter alia, prohibit the grant of	licences  inrespect	 of  a	lottery or prize  competition  or  class  oflotteries  or prize competitions throughout the State or  inany  area.  Section II empowers the Collector to suspend  orcancel	 a  licence  granted  under  this  Act	in   certaincircumstances therein specified.  Section 12 authorises	 thelevy  of  a tax on lotteries and prize competitions  at	 therate  of 25% of the total sum received Or due in respect  ofsuch  lottery  or prize competition.  This  section  directsthat  the tax shall be collected from the promoter  of	suchlottery or prize competition as the case may be. Sub-section(2) of s. 12 empowers the State Government by a Notificationin  the official Gazette, to enhance the rate of tax  up  to50%  of	 the total sum received or due in  respect  of	suchprize  competition as may be specified in the  Notification.Section	 12A, which is of great importance for -the  purposeof this appeal, runs as follows:"  12A.	 Notwithstanding anything contained in	section	 12,there  shall be levied in respect of every lottery or  prizecompetition contained in a newspaper or publication  printedand published outside the State,889for which a licence has been obtained under section 5, 6  or7  ,  a tax at such rates as may be specified by  the  StateGovernment  in	a notification in the Official	Gazette	 notexceeding  the	rates specified in section 12  on  the	sumsspecified  in the declaration made under section 15  by	 thepromoter of the lottery or prize competition as having	beenreceived  or  due  in  respect	of  such  lottery  or  prizecompetition   or  in  a	 lump  sum  having  regard  to	 thecirculation or distribution of the newspaper or	 publicationin the State."Section	 15  requires every person promoting  a	 lottery  orprize competition of any kind to keep and maintain  accountsrelating to such lottery or prize competition and to  submitto the Collector statements in such form and at such  periodas  may be prescribed.	It is not necessary for the  purposeof this appeal to refer to the remaining sections which	 aredesigned to facilitate the main purpose of the Act and	dealwith procedural matters except to s. 31 which confers  poweron  the	 State Government to make rules for the	 purpose  ofcarrying  out  the provisions of the Act.   In	exercise  ofpowers	so  conferred on it, the State	Government  has,  byNotification  in  the Official Gazette, made  certain  rulescalled	the Bombay Lotteries and Prize Competitions  Controland  Tax  Rules,  1952,	 to which  reference  will  be	madehereafter. The petitioners contend that the object of the impugned Actis  to control and to tax lotteries and prize  competitions.It  is	not the purpose of the Act to  prohibit	 either	 thelotteries  or  the prize competitions.	They urge  that	 theimpugned  Act deals alike with prize competitions which	 maypartake	  of   the  nature  of	gambling  and	also   prizecompetitions which call for knowledge and skill for  winningsuccess and in support of this contention reliance is placedon  the definition of "prize competition" in s.	 2(1)(d)  ofthe impugned Act.  We are pressed to hold that the  impugnedAct  in its entirety or at any rate in so far as  it  coverslegitimate  and	 innocent prize competition is	a  law	withrespect	 to trade and commerce under Entry 26 and  not	withrespect	 to betting and gambling under Entry 34.  They	alsourge that in any event the taxing provisions,890namely	ss.  12 and 12A, are taxes on the trade	 of  runningprize  competitions under Entry 60 and not taxes on  bettingand  gambling under Entry 62.  We are unable to	 accept	 thecorrectness  of the aforesaid contentions for reasons  whichwe proceed immediately to state.As it has already been mentioned, the impugned Act  replacedthe  1939  Act	which dealt only  with	prize  competitions.Section 2(2) of the 1939 Act defined "prize competition"  inthe terms following:----  2(2) "Prize Competition " includes-  (a)	  crossword   prize   competition,   missing   wordscompetition,   picture	prize  competition,   number   prizecompetition,  or  any  other  competition,  for	 which	 thesolution  is  prepared beforehand by the  promoters  of	 thecompetition or for which the solution is determined by lot; (b)any	  competition  in  which  prizes  are  offered	 forforecasts  of the results either of a future event or  of  apast event the result of which is not yet ascertained or notyet generally known; and(c)  any other competition success in which does not  dependto a substantial degree upon the exercise of skill,but  does  not include a prize competition  contained  in  anewspaper  or periodical printed and published	outside	 theProvince of Bombay."The  1948  Act	s.  2(1)(d),  as  originally  enacted,	sub-stantially reproduced the definition of " prize	 competition"  as given in s. 2(2) of the 1939 Act.	 Section 2(1)(d)  ofthe 1948 Act, as originally enacted, ran as follows:2(1)(d)	 "Prize Competition " includes(i)  cross-word	 prize	competition,  missing  wordsprize  competition, picture prize competition, number  prizecompetition, or any other competition for which the solutionis, prepared beforehand by the promoters of the	 competitionor for which the solution is determined by lot;(ii)any	  competition  in  which  prizes  are  offered	 forforecasts  of the results either of a future event or  of  apast event the result of which is not yet ascertained or notyet generally known; And891(iii)any other competition success in which does not  dependto a substantial degree upon the exercise of skill,  but  does not include a prize competition contained  in  anewspaper  printed  and published outside  the	Province  ofBombay; " The  collocation  of  words in the first  category  of	 thedefinitions  in	 both  the  1939 Act and  the  1948  Act  asoriginally  enacted made it quite clear that the  qualifyingclause "for which the solution is prepared beforehand by thepromoters  of the competition or for which the	solution  isdetermined  by	lot " applied equally to each  of  the	fivekinds  of prize competitions included in that  category	 andset  out  one after another in a  continuous  sentence.	  Itshould also be noted that the qualifying clause consisted oftwo parts separated from each other by the disjunctive	word"or".	Both parts of the qualifying clause  indicated	thateach  of  the five kinds of prize  competitions	 which	theyqualified   were  of  a	 gambling  nature.   Thus  a   prizecompetition for which a solution was prepared beforehand wasclearly	 a gambling prize competition, for  the	 competitorswere  only  invited  to guess  what  the  solution  preparedbeforehand by the promoters might be, or in other words,  asLord  Hewart  C. J. observed in Coles v. Odhams	 Press	Ltd.(1), " the competitors are invited to pay certain number  ofpence  to  have the opportunity of taking blind shots  at  ahidden target." Prize competitions to which the second	partof the qualifying clause applied, that is to say, the  prizecompetitions  for which the solution was determined by	lot,was necessarily a gambling adventure.  On the language	usedin the definition section of the 1939 Act as well as in	 the1948  Act,  as originally enacted, there could be  no  doubtthat  each of the five kinds of prize competitions  includedin the first category to each of which the qualifying clauseapplied	 was  of  a  gambling  nature.	 Nor  has  it	beenquestioned  that the third category, which comprised  "	 anyother  competition  success in which does not  depend  to  asubstantial degree upon the exercise of skill constituted a(1)  L.R. (1936) 1 K.B. 416.892gambling  competition.	At one time the notion was  that  inorder to be branded as gambling the competition must be	 onesuccess	 in  which depended entirely on chance.	 If  even  ascintilla of skill was required for success the	 competitioncould not be regarded as of a gambling nature.	The Court ofAppeal	in the judgment under appeal has shown how  opinionshave  changed since the earlier decisions were given and  itis  not	 necessary for us to discuss the matter	 again.	  Itwill  suffice to say that we agree with the Court of  Appealthat a competition in order to avoid the stigma of  gamblingmust  depend  to a substantial degree upon the	exercise  ofskill.	 Therefore, a competition success wherein  does	 notdepend to a substantial degree upon the exercise of skill isnow  recognised to be of a gambling nature.  From the  abovediscussion  it follows that according to the  definition  ofprize  competition given in the 1939 Act as in the 1948	 Actas originally enacted, the five kinds of prize	competitionscomprised  in the first category and the competition in	 thethird  category were all of a gambling nature.	 In  betweenthose two categories of gambling competitions were  squeezedin,  as the second category, "competitions in  which  prizeswere offered for forecasts of the results either of a futureevent  or  of a past event the result of which	is  not	 yetascertained   or   is  not  yet	  generally   known."	Thisjuxtaposition	is  important  and  significant	  and	willhereafter be discussed in greater detail.As already stated the 1948 Act was amended in 1952 by BombayAct  XXX  of  1952.   Section 2(1)(d)  as  amended  runs  asfollows:  Prize competition " includes-    (i)	  (1) cross-word prize competition,	 (2)   missing word prize competition,	(3)    picture prize competition,	 (4)   number prize competition, or	 (5)   any other prize competition, for whichthe  solution  is  or  is not  prepared	 beforehand  by	 thepromoters or for which the solution is determined by lot  orchance; (ii)	  any  competition in which prizes are	offered	 forforecasts of the results either of a future event or of893a  past event the result of which is not yet ascertained  ornot yet generally known; and(iii) any other competition success in which does not dependto a substantial degree upon the exercise of skill;It  will be noticed that the concluding sentence " but	doesnot  include  a prize competition contained in	a  newspaperprinted	 and published outside the Province of	Bombay"	 hasbeen  deleted.	This deletion has very far reaching  effect,for   it  has  done  away  with	 the  exclusion	  of   prizecompetitions contained in a newspaper printed and  publishedoutside	  the  State  of  Bombay  from	the  scope  of	 thedefinition.  In the next place, it should be noted that	 thedefinition  of	prize  competition  still  comprises   threecategories  as before.	The second and the third  categoriesare  couched  in  exactly the same language  as	 were  theircounterparts in the earlier definitions.  It is only in	 thefirst  category	 that certain changes are  noticeable.	 Thefive  kinds of prize competitions that were included in	 thefirst  category of the old definitions are still  there	 butinstead	 of  their  being set out one  after  another  in  acontinuous  sentence,  they  have been	set  out  one  belowanother	 with  a separate number assigned to each  of  them.The  qualifying	 clause has been amended  by  inserting	 thewords  "or is not" after the word "is" and before  the	word"prepared"  and by adding the words "or chain ce" after	 theword "lot".  The qualifying clause appears, as before, afterthe  fifth item in the first category.	It will	 be  noticedthat there is a comma after each of the five items includingthe fifth item.	 The mere assigning a separate number to thefive  items  of	 prize competitions included  in  the  firstcategory  does	not, in our judgment, affect  or  alter	 themeaning,  scope and effect of this part of  the	 definition.The  numbering of the five items has not dissociated any  ofthem  from the qualifying clause.  If the qualifying  clausewere  intended to apply only to the fifth item,	 then  therewould  have  been  no comma after the fifth  item.   In	 ouropinion, therefore, the qualifying clause continues to applyto each of the five items as before the amendment.  There isgrammatically no difficulty in reading115894the  qualifying	 clause as lending colour to each  of  thoseitems. Accepting that the qualifying clause applies to each of thefive  kinds  of	 prize competitions included  in  the  firstcategory, it is urged that the qualifying clause as  amendedindicates that the Legislature intended to include  innocentprize competitions within the definition so as to bring	 allprize  competitions,  legitimate or  otherwise,	 within	 theoperation of the regulatory provisions of the Act  includingthe taxing sections.  The argument is thus formulated.	As aresult	of  the	 amendment the qualifying  clause  has	beenbroken up into three parts separated from each other by	 thedisjunctive word " or ". The, three parts are (1) for  whichthe  solution is prepared beforehand by the  promoters,	 (2)for  which  the solution is not prepared beforehand  by	 thepromoters  and (3) for which the solution is  determined  bylot  or	 chance.   The	first and the  third  parts  of	 thequalifying clause, it is conceded, will, when applied to thepreceding five kinds of prize cometitions, make each of themgambling  a  ventures;	gut  it	 is  contended	that   prizecompetitions  to  which the second part	 of  the  qualifyingclause	may  apply, that is to say  prize  competitions	 forwhich  the solution is not prepared beforehand, need not  beof a gambling nature at all and at any rate many of them maywell  be  of an innocent type.	This argument hangs  on	 thefrail peg of unskilful draftsmanship.  It has been seen thatin  the	 old  -definitions  all	 the  five  kinds  of  prizecompetitions  included	in  the first  categorv	 were  of  agambling nature.  We find no cogent reason-and none has beensuggested-why  the Legislature_which treated  lotteries	 andprize  competitions  on	 the same  footing  should  suddenlyenlarge	 the first category so as to include innocent  prizecompetitions.	To  hold that the first	 category  of  prizecompetitions  include  innocent prize competitions  will  goagainst the obvious tenor of the impugned Act.	The 1939 Actdealt with prize competitions only and the first category inthe   definition   given  there	 comprised   only   gamblingcompetitions.	The 1948 Act clubbed together lotteries	 andprize  competitions  and  the first category  of  the  prizecompetitions			    895included in the definition 'as originally enacted was purelygambling  as  both parts of the	 qualifying  clause  clearlyindicated.  Section 3 of the Act declared all lotteries	 andall  prize competitions unlawful.  There could be no  reasonfor  declaring	innocent prize competitions  unlawful.	 Theregulatory provisions for licensing and taxing apply to	 allprize  competitions.   If  it  were  intended  to   include.innocent prize competitions in the first category, one wouldhave   expected	 the  Legislature  to  have  made   separateprovisions  for the legitimate prize  competitions  imposingless  rigorous	regulations than what had  been	 imposed  onillegitimate  prize competitions.  It will become  difficultto  apply the same taxing sections to legitimate as well  asto    illegitimate   competitions.    Tax   on	  legitimatecompetitions may well be a tax under Entry 60 on the  traderwho  carries  on  the  trade  of  innocent  and	  legitimatecompetition.   It may be and indeed it has been the  subjectof  serious controversy whether an illegitimate	 competitioncan  be	 regarded A a trade at all and in one  view  of	 thematter the tax may have to be justified as a tax on  bettingand gambling under Entry 62.  Considering the nature,  scopeand  effect  of	 the  impugned Act  we	entertain  no  doubtwhatever  that the first category of prizecompetitions	doesnot include any innocent prize competition.  Such is what weconceive  to  be the clear intention of the  Legislature  asexpressed  in the impugned Act read as a whole and  to	giveeffect to this obvious intention, as we are bound to do,  wehave  perforce	to  read  the word  "or"  appearing  in	 thequalifying  clause after the word "promoter" and before	 theword  "for" as "and".  Well known canons of construction  ofStatutes   permit  us  to  do  so.  (See  Maxwell   on	 theInterpretation of Statutes, 10th edition, page 238).A similar argument was sought to be raised on a constructionof  cl. (ii) of s. 2(1) (d).  As already stated, in  betweenthe  first  and the third categories of	 prize	competitionswhich,	as  already  seen,  are of  a  gambling	 nature	 thedefinition has included a second category of competitions inwhich prizes are offered for forecasts of the results eitherof a future event or of a past event896the  result  of	 which is not yet  ascertained	or  not	 yetgenerally  known.  It is said that forecasts of such  eventsas are specified in the section need not necessarily  dependon chance, for it may be accurately done by the exercise  ofknowledge  and	skill  derived from a  close  study  of	 thestatistics  of similar events of the past.  It may  be	thatexpert statisticians may form some idea of the result of  anuncertain  future  event but it is difficult  to  treat	 theinvitation  to	the general public to participate  in  thesecompetitions  as  an  invitation to a game  of	skill.	 Theordinary   common   people  who	 usually   join	  in   thesecompetitions  can hardly be credited with such abundance  ofstatistical skill as will enable them, by the application oftheir  skill, to attain success.  For most, if not  all,  ofthem the forecast is nothing better than a shot at a  hiddentarget.	 Apart from the unlikelihood that the Legislature inenacting   a  statute  tarring	both  lotteries	 and   prizecompetitions with the same brush as indicated by s' 3  wouldsqueeze	 in  innocent  prize  competitions  in	between	 twocategories  of	purely gambling varieties of them,  all	 theconsiderations	and  difficulties  we have  adverted  to  inconnection with the construction of the ,first category	 andthe qualifying clause therein will apply mutatis mutandis tothe interpretation of this second clause.Reliance  is  placed  on s. 26 of the  English	Betting	 andLotteries Act, 1934 (24 and 25 Geo.  V c. 58) in aid of	 theconstruction  of the second category of	 prize	competitionsincluded  in the definition given in the impugned Act.	 Therelevant portion of s. 26 of the aforesaid Act runs thus:  "  26. (1) It shall be unlawful to conduct in	 or  throughany  newspaper, or in connection with any trade or  businessor the sale of any article to the public(a)  any  competition	in  which  prizes  are	offered	 forforecasts  of the result either of a future event, or  of  apast event the result of which is not yet ascertained or notyet generally known;(b)  any other competition success in which does not  dependto a substantial degree upon the exercise of skill.			    897It  will  be noticed that this section is not  a  definitionsection	 at all but is a penal section which  makes  certaincompetitions mentioned in the two clauses unlawful.   Clause(a) of that section which corresponds to our second categoryis  not sandwiched between two categories of gambling  prizecompetitions.	In Elderton v. Totalisator Co. Ltd.  (1)  onwhich  the  petitioners rely the question  was	whether	 thefootball  pool	advertised in newspapers  by  the  appellantcompany	 came  within the wide language of cl. (a)  of	thatsection	 which	was  in Part II of  the	 Act.	Whether	 theappellant  company's football pool called for any  skill  onthe part of the "investors" or whether it was of a  gamblingnature	was not directly relevant to the discussion  whetherit fell within cl. (a).	 The penal provisions of the EnglishAct  and the decision of the Court of Appeal throw no  lighton  the construction of our definition clause.	Seeing	thatprize competitions have been clubbed together with lotteriesand  dealt with in the same Act and seeing that	 the  secondcategory  of  the definition of	 "  prize competition  "  issandwiched  in	between the other two categories  which	 areclearly	 of  a	gambling nature and in	view  of  the  otherprovisions  of the impugned Act and in particular s.  3	 andthe  taxing  sections, we are clearly of  opinion  that	 thedefinition of " prize competition " on a proper constructionof  the	 language of s. 2(1) (d )in the light of  the  otherprovisions  of the Act read as a whole comprises only  prizecompetitions  which  are of the nature of a lottery  in	 thewider sense, that is to say, of the nature of gambling.	 TheCourt  of Appeal took the view that although as a matter  ofconstruction  the  definition  did  include  innocent  prizecompetitions,  yet by the application of another  principle,namely,	 that  a  literal construction	will  make  the	 lawinvalid because of its overstepping the limits- of Entry 26,which  comprises only trade and commerce within	 the  State,the  definition should be read as limited only	to  gamblingprize  competitions so as to make it a law with	 respect  tobetting	 and gambling under Entry 34.  It is  not  necessaryfor us in this case to consider whether the(1)  (1945) 2 A.E.R. 624.898principle  laid	 down  by Sir Maurice Gwyer  C.	 J.  in	 theHindu  Women's Right to Property Act case (1) can be  calledin aid to cut down the scope of a section by omitting one oftwo  things  when  the	section	 on  a	proper	constructionincludes two things, for we are unable, with great  respect,to  agree  with	 the  Court  of	 Appeal	 that  on  a  properconstruction   the  definition	covers	both  gambling	 andinnocent competitions.	In our view, the section, on a	trueconstruction,  covers only -gambling prize competitions	 andthe Act is a law with respect to betting and gambling  underEntry  34.  As, for the foregoing reasons, we  have  alreadyarrived at the conclusion just stated, it is unnecessary forus  to refer to the language used in the third category	 andto invoke the rule of construction which goes by the name ofnoscitur  a  sociis  relied on by learned  counsel  for	 theappellant.The  next  point urged is that, although the  Act  may	comeunder  Entry 34, the taxing provisions of s. 12A  cannot  besaid to impose a tax on betting and gambling under Entry  62but imposes a tax on trade under Entry 60.  Once it is	heldthat  the  impugned  Act  is on the  topic  of	betting	 andgambling under Entry 34, the tax imposed 'by such a statute,one  would  think, would be a tax on  betting  and  gamblingunder  Entry  62.  The Appeal Court has expressed  the	viewthat  s. 12A does not fall within Entry 62, for it does	 notimpose	a tax on the gambler but imposes a tax on the  peti-tioners	 who do not themselves gamble but who  only  promotethe  prize  competitions.   So	far  as	 the  promoters	 areconcerned, the tax -levied from them can only be regarded astax  on the trade of prize competitions carried on by  them.This.'	with  respect, is taking a very narrow view  of	 thematter.	 Entry 62 talks of taxes on betting and gambling andnot  of	 taxes	on  the	 men  who  bet	or  gamble.   It  isnecessary,,  therefore, to bear in mind the real  nature  ofthe  tax.   The	 tax  imposed by s.  12A  is,  in  terms,  apercentage  of	the sums specified in the  declaration	madeunder  a. 15 by the promoter or a lump sum having regard  tothe circulation and distribution of the newspaper, or(1) (1941) F.C.R. 12.			    899publication  in	 the State.  Under s. 15 the promoter  of  aprize  competition carried on in a newspaper or	 publicationprinted	 and  published	 outside  the State  is	 to  make  adeclaration  in	 such  form and at such	 period	 as  may  beprescribed.   Form 'J' prescribed by r. 11 (c) requires	 thepromoter to declare, among other things, the total number oftickets/coupons received for the competition from the  Stateof  Bombay  and the total receipts out of the  sale  of	 thetickets/coupons	 from the State of Bombay.   The  percentageunder a. 12A is to be calculated on the total sums specifiedin  the declaration.  It is clear, therefore, that  the	 taxsought to be imposed by the impugned Act is a percentage  ofthe  aggregate of the entry fees received from the State  ofBombay.	 On ultimate analysis it is a tax on each entry	 feereceived from each individual competitor who remits it	fromthe  State of Bombay.  In gigantic prize competitions  whichthe  prize competitions run by the  petitioners	 undoubtedlyare,  it  is  extremely	 difficult  and	 indeed	 well	nighimpossible   for  the  State  to  get  at  each	  individualcompetitor and the provision for collecting the tax from thepromoters  after  the entry fees come into  their  hands  isnothing	 but a convenient method of collecting the tax.	  Inother words, the taxing authority finds it convenient in thecourse	of administration to collect the duty in respect  ofthe  gambling activities represented by each of the  entrieswhen  the same reaches the hands of the promoters.  The	 taxon gambling is a well recognised group of indirect taxes  asstated by Findlay Shirras in his Science of Public  Finance,vol.  II p. 680.  It is a kind of tax which, in the languageof J. S. Mill quoted by Lord Hobhouse in Bank of Toronto  v.Lambe (1), is demanded from the promoter in the	 expectationand intention that he shall indemnify himself at the expenseof  the	 gamblers who sent entrance fees to him.   That,  wethink,	is the general tendency of the tax according to	 thecommon	understanding of men.  It is not difficult  for	 thepromoters  to pass on the tax to the gamblers, for they	 maycharge the proportionate percentage on the amount of(1)  L.R. (1887) 12 A.C. 575.900each  entry as the seller of goods charges the sales tax  orhe  may increase the entrance fee from 4 annas to 5 annas  6pies to cover the tax.	If in particular circumstances it iseconomically  undesirable or practically impossible to	passon  the	 tax  to the gamblers, that circumstance  is  not  adecisive  or even a relevant consideration for	ascertainingthe  true  nature  of the tax, for it does  not	 affect	 thegeneral	 tendency of the tax which remains.  If taxation  onbetting	 and  gambling	is  to be regarded  as	a  means  ofcontrolling  betting  and  gambling  activities,  then	 theeasiest	 and  surest  way  of doing so	is  to	get  at	 thepromoters who encourage and promote the unsocial  activitiesand  who  hold	the gamblers' money in their  -	 hands.	  Tocollect	 the  tax  from	 the promoters is  not	to  tax	 thepromoters  but	is a convenient way of imposing the  tax  onbetting	 and  gambling and indirectly  taxing  the  gamblersthemselves.   It is to be noted that the tax here is not  onthe  profits made by the petitioners but it is a  percentageof  the total sum received by them from the State of  Bombayas entrance fees without the deduction of any expense.	Thiscircumstance also indicates that it is not a tax on a trade.According to the general understanding of men, as stated  byLord  Warrington of Clyffe in Rex v.  Caledonian  CollieriesLtd.  (1),  there are marked distinctions between a  tax  ongross  collection  and a tax on income	which  for  taxationpurposes  means gains and profits.   Similar  considerationsmay  apply  to tax on trade.  There is	yet  another  cogentreason	for holding that the tax imposed by s. 12A is a	 taxon  betting  and  gambling.  In	 enacting  the	statute	 theLegislature  was  undoubtedly making a law with	 respect  tobetting	 and  gambling	under Entry 34	as  here  in  beforementioned.  By the amending Act XXX of 1952 the	 Legislatureby deleting the concluding words of the definition of 'prizecompetition',  namely, " but does not include etc., etc.,  "extended  the  operation of the Act  to	 prize	competitionscarried	 on in newspapers printed and published outside	 theState  of  Bombay.   They knew that  under  Art.  276  whichreproduced s. 142A of the Government of India Act,(1)  L.R. (1928) A.C. 358.9011935,  they could not impose a tax exceeding the sum of	 Rs.250 on any trade or calling under Entry 60.  If the tax	 canbe  referable  either to Entry 60 or to Entry 62,  -then  inview of the fact that s. 12A will become at least partially,if  not wholly, invalid as a tax on trade or  calling  underEntry 60 by reason of Art. 276(2), the court must, in  orderto uphold the section, follow the well established principleof construction laid down by the Federal Court of India	 andhold  that the Legislature must have been  contemplating  tomake a law with respect to betting and gambling under  Entry62,  for there is no constitutional limit to the quantum  oftax  which  can be imposed by a law made under	that  Entry.For  reasons stated above, we are satisfied that s.  12A  issupportable as a valid piece of legislation under Entry 62.The next point urged by the petitioners is that under  Arts.245  and 246 the Legislature of a State can only make a	 lawfor  the  State or any part thereof and,  consequently,	 theLegislature overstepped the limits of its legislative  fieldwhen by the impugned Act it purported to affect men residingand carrying on business outside the State.  It is submittedthat  there is no sufficient territorial nexus	between	 theState  and the activities of the petitioners who are not  inthe  State.   The  doctrine of	territorial  nexus  is	wellestablished  and there is no dispute as to  the	 principles.As  enunciated	by learned counsel for the  petitioners,  ifthere is a territorial nexus between the person sought to becharged and the State seeking to tax him the taxing  statutemay  be upheld.	 Sufficiency of the  territorial  connectioninvolves  a  consideration of two elements, namely  (a)	 theconnection  must  be  real  and not  illusory  and  (b)	 theliability  sought  to be imposed must be pertinent  to	thatconnection.   It is conceded that it is of no importance  onthe  question of validity that the liability imposed  is  ormay  be	 altogether  disproportionate  to  the	 territorialconnection.  In other words, if the connection is sufficientin the sense mentioned above, the extent of such  connectionaffects	 merely	 the  policy and not  the  validity  of	 thelegislation.   Keeping these principles in mind we  have  toascertain if in the case before us there116902was  sufficient	 territorial nexus to  entitle	the  Bombay.Legislature to make the impugned law.  The question  whetherin  a  given case there is sufficient territorial  nexus  isessentially  one  of fact.  The trial court took  the'	viewthat the territorial nexus was not sufficient to uphold	 thevalidity of the law under debate.  The Court of Appeal	tooka  different view of the facts and upheld the law.  We	findourselves  in  agreement  with the  Court  of  Appeal.	 Thenewspaper "Sporting Star" printed and published in Bangaloreis   widely  circulated	 in  the  State	 of   Bombay.	 Thepetitioners  have set up collection depots within the  Stateto  receive entry forms and the fees.  They  have  appointedlocal collectors.  Besides the circulation of the copies  ofthe  "	Sporting Star ", the petitioners print	over  40,000extra coupons for distribution which no doubt are  availablefrom   their   local   collectors.    The   most   importantcircumstance   in   these  competitions	 is   the   alluringinvitation  to	participate in the  competition	 where	verylarge prizes amounting to thousands of rupees and  sometimesrunning into a lakh of rupees may be won at and for a paltryentrance fee of say 4 annas per entry.	These advertisementsreach  a  large number of people resident within  the  Stat.The gamblers, euphemistically called, the competitors,	fillup the entry forms and either leave it along with the  entryfees at the collection depots set up in the State of  Bombayor-  send the same by poet from Bombay.	 All the  activitiesthat  the gambler is ordinarily expected to  undertake	takeplace,	mostly if not entirely, in the State of	 Bombay	 andafter sending the entry forms and the fees the gamblers holdtheir  soul in patience in great expectations  that  fortunemay  smile  on them.  In our judgment the  standing  invita-tions, the filling up of the forms and the payment of  moneytake place within the State which is seeking to tax only theamount received by the petitioners from the State of Bombay.The  tax  is on gambling although it is collected  from	 thepromoters.   All  these,  we  think,  constitute  sufficientterritorial  nexus  which entitles the State  of  Bombay  toimpose	a  tax on the gambling that takes place	 within	 itsboundaries  and the law cannot be struck down on the  groundof extra territoriality.903Assuming   that	 the  impugned	Act  is	 well	within	 thelegislative competence of the Bombay Legislature and that itis not invalid on the ground of extra territorial operation,we have next to examine and see if there is anything else inthe Constitution which renders it invalid.  The	 petitionerscontend	 that  even  if the  prize  competitions  constitutegambling  transactions,	 they  are  nevertheless  trade	  orbusiness activities and that that being so the impugned	 Actinfringes  the	petitioners' fundamental  right	 under	Art.19(1)(g)  'of  the Constitution to carry on their  trade  orbusiness and that the restrictions imposed by the Act cannotpossibly  be  supported as reasonable  restrictions  in	 theinterests  of  the  general public  permissible	 under	Art.19(6).	 The  petitioners also point out that the  trade  orbusiness  carried  on  by them is not  confined	 within	 thelimits	of the State of Mysore but extends across the  Stateboundaries into other States within the territories of Indiaand even into lands beyond the Union of India and they	urgethat  in  view of the inter-State nature of their  trade  orbusiness the restrictions imposed by the impugned Act offendagainst	 Art. 301 which declares that, subject to the  otherprovisions of Part XIII of the Constitution, trade, commerceand  intercourse throughout the territory of India shall  befree  and  cannot be supported under Art.  304(b),  for	 therestrictions cannot be said to be reasonable or required  inthe public interest and because the procedural	requirementsof  the	 proviso thereto had not been  complied	 with.	 TheState  of  Bombay repudiates these contentions	and  submitsthat  as  prize competitions are opposed  to  public  policythere can be no "trade" or "business"" in promoting a  prizecompetition   and   the	 question  of  infraction   of	 thepetitioner's fundamental right to carry on trade or businessguaranteed  by	Art.  19(1)(g) or of the  violation  of	 thefreedom	 of trade, commerce or intercourse declared by	Art.301  does  not arise at all and that in any  event  if	Art.19(1)(g)  or  Art.  301 applies	 at  all,  the	restrictionsimposed	 by  the impugned Act  are  reasonable	restrictionsnecessary in the interest of the general public and saved byArt. 19(6) and by Art. 304(b),of the Constitution.  It is904conceded  that	the bill which became Act XXX  of  1952	 andamended the 1948 Act in the manner here in before stated wasintroduced  in	the  Legislature of the	 State	without	 theprevious  sanction of the President and,  consequently,	 thecondition precedent to the validity of the resulting Act  aslaid  down in the proviso had not been complied with but  itis submitted, we think correctly, that the defect was cured,under  Art.  255, by the assent given  subsequently  by	 thePresident to the impugned Act.	It is, however, admitted  bylearned counsel appearing for the appellant State that underArt.  255 the subsequent assent of the President  will	savethe Act if the other condition embodied in Art. 304(b) as tothe  restrictions  imposed  by it being	 reasonable  in	 thepublic interest is held to be satisfied but it will not savethe  rules framed under a. 31 of the impugned Act which	 hadnever  been  placed before the President or assented  to  orapproved  by him.  We now proceed to examine and  deal	withthese rival, contentions.The first branch of the argument on this part of the  appealraises	a  question  of a very	far  reaching  nature.	 Thequestion  posed	 before us is: Can the	promotion  of  prizecompetitions,  which  are  opposed  to	public	policy,	  becharacterised as a " trade or business " within the  meaningof Art. 19(1)(g) or "trade, commerce and intercourse" withinArt.  301 ? The learned trial Judge has expressed  the	viewthat  if  he were able to hold that the	 prize	competitionsconducted  by the petitioners were of a gambling nature,  hewould  have had no difficulty in concluding that  they	wereoutside	 the protection of the Constitution.  The  Court  ofAppeal,	 however, took a different view.  What weighed	withthe  Court of Appeal was the fact that the  legislature	 hadnot  prohibited gambling outright but only  made  provisionsfor  regulating	 the  same and further that  the  State	 wasmaking	a profit out of these prize competitions by  levyingtaxes  thereon.	 It is necessary to consider  the  argumentsthat have been adduced before us by learned counsel for	 theparties in support of their respective contentions.905It will be noted that Art. 19(1) (g) in very general  -termsguarantees  to	all  citizens  the right  to  carry  on	 anyoccupation,  trade  or	business  and el.  (6)	of  Art.  19protects  legislation  which  may, in the  interest  of	 thegeneral	 public,  impose  reasonable  restrictions  on	 theexercise of the right conferred by Art. 19(1) (g).  LikewiseArt.  301  declares  that trade,  commerce  and	 intercoursethroughout  the territory of India shall be free  but  makessuch  declaration  subject to the other provisions  of	PartXIII  of the Constitution.  Arts. 302305, which are in	thatPart,  lay  down certain restrictions subject to  which	 thedeclaration  contained in Art. 301 is to  operate.   Article302 empowers Parliament by law to impose restrictions on thefreedom of trade, -commerce or intercourse not only  betweenone State and another but also within the State, provided ineither	case  such restrictions are required in	 the  publicinterest.  Article 304 (b) authorises the State Legislaturesto  impose reasonable restrictions on the freedom of  trade,commerce or intercourse with or within the States as may  berequired in the public interest, provided the formalities ofprocedure  are complied with Arts. 19(1) (g) and 301, it  ispointed out are two facets -of the same thing-the freedom oftrade	Art. 19(1)(g) looks at the matter from the point  ofview   of  the	individual  citizens  and   protects   theirindividual right to carry on their trade or business,	Art.301  looks  at	the matter from the point  of  view  of	 thecountry's  trade and commerce as a whole, as  distinct	fromthe  individual interests of the citizens and it relates  totrade,	commerce  or intercourse both with  and	 within	 theStates.	 The question which calls for our decision is as  tothe  true  meaning,  import  and scope	of  the	 freedom  soguaranteed  and declared by our Constitution.  We have	beenreferred  to  a large number of -decisions  bearing  on	 theAustralian   and  American  Constitutions  in  aid  of	 theconstruction of the relevant articles of our Constitution.In the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act (63 and 64Vic.  c. 12) there is s. 92 from which our Art. 301  appearsto have been taken.  The material part of a. 92 -runs thus:906On  the	 imposition  of uniform duties	of  customs,  trade,commerce and intercourse among the States, whether by  meansof   internal  carriage	 or  ocean  navigation,	  shall	  beabsolutely free.It  has been held in James v. Commonwealth of Australia	 (1)that  the word"' absolutely " adds nothing but	emphasis  tothe width of the section.  In the same case it has also beenstated and decided that the section imposes a fetter on	 thelegislative  power not only of the  Commonwealth  Parliamentbut  also  of  the Parliament of the States.   It  has	beenequally	 authoritatively  held that the words "	 whether  bymeans  of internal carriage or ocean navigation "  occurringin the section do not restrict its operation to such  thingsand  persons  as  are carried by land or sea  but  that	 thesection	 extends  to all activities carried on by  means  ofinterState  transactions (Commonwealth of Australia v.	Bankof  New	 South Wales (2) ). The Privy Council  in  the	lastmentioned case has also said at p. 299 that it is no  longerarguable that freedom from customs or other monetary chargesalone  is secured by the section.  The idea  underlying	 thesection was that the Federation in Australia should  abolishthe  frontiers between the different States and	 create	 oneAustralia and that conception involved freedom from  customsduties,	 import&,  border prohibitions and  restrictions  ofevery kind, so that the people of Australia would be free totrade with each other and to pass to and fro from one  Stateto  another  without any let or hindrance,  or	without	 anyburden	or  restriction based merely on the fact  that	theywere not members of the same State (James v. Commonwealth ofAustralia(1)).One  cannot  but  be struck by the  sweeping  generality  oflanguage  used in the section.	Such a wide  enunciation  ofthe  freedom of inter-State trade, commerce and	 intercoursewas bound to lead to difficulties.  The full import and truemeaning of the general words had to be considered, as  yearswent past, in relation to the vicissitudes of altering factsand  circumstances  which from time to	time  emerged.	 Thechanging  circumstances	 and the necessities  compelled	 thecourt(1) L.R. (1936) A.C. 578, 627.(2) L.R. (1950) A.C. 235, 302$-303.907to  reach the conclusion that the conception of	 freedom  oftrade, commerce and intercourse in a community regulated  bylaw   presupposed   some  degree  of  restriction   on	 theindividual.   Cases  arose  out	 of  statutes  enacted	 forrestricting  competition of privately owned  motor  vehicleswith publicly owned railways, or to compel users of motor tocontribute to the upkeep of the roads e.g. Willard v. Rawson(1); R. v. Vizzard(2) and O. Gilpin Ltd. v. Commissioner  ofRoad  Transport	 and Tramways(1).  In each  of	these  threecases  the State law was upheld as not offending against  s.92.   Cases  arose under statutes which were  sought  to  besupported on the ground of health.  In Ex parte Nelson	(No.1) (4) a New South Wales statute prohibited entry of  cattlefrom   tick  infected  area  until  dipped.   Applying	 theprinciple  of  pith  and substance, it	was  held  that	 therestrictions looked at in their true light, were aids to andnot  restrictions  upon the freedom  of	 inter-State  trade,commerce and intercourse.  In Tasmania v. Victoria (5).	 theabsolute prohibition of imports of potatoes from Tasmania toVictoria could not on facts be supported as a health measureand  consequently was struck down as a violation of  s.	 92.In  James  v.  Commonwealth  of	 Australia(6)  came  up	 forconsideration the Dried Fruits Act 1928-35 which  prohibitedthe  carrying of any dried fruit from one State	 to  anotherexcept	under a licence and which provided for	penalty	 forits contravention.  The regulations authorised the  Ministerto  direct  the licensee to export a certain  percentage  ofdried  fruits  from  Australia.	 The Minister  by  an  orderdetermined that it would be a condition of the licence. thatthe licensee should export a percentage of the dried  fruitsas therein mentioned.  The appellant having refused to applyfor a licence, his consignments of dried fruits shipped fromAide for delivery at Sydney in performance of contracts	 forsale  were  seized.   The appellant brought  an	 action	 fordamages for what he alleged to be a wrongful seizure.  Afterholding that the section bound the Parliament of(1)  (1933) 48 C.L.R.316.    (4)   (1928) 42.C.L.R. 209.(2)  (1933) 50 C.L.R. 30.    (5)(1935) 52 C.L.R. 157.(3)  (1935) 52 C.L.R. 189.   (6)   L.R.	 (1936)	 A.C.	578,627.908Commonwealth  equally with those of the States the  JudicialCommittee  proceeded to say that the freedom declared in  s.92  must  be somehow limited and the only  limitation  whichemerged	 from  the  context and which  could  logically	 andrealistically  apply  was freedom at what  was	the  crucialpoint in inter-State trade, namely at the State barrier	 (p.631).	In  the later case of Commonwealth of  Australia  v.Bank  of  New South Wales (1) it has been  said	 that  thosewords were to be read secundum subjectam materiam and  couldnot be interpreted as a decision either that it was only thepassage	 of goods which is protected by s. 92 or that it  isonly  at the frontier that the stipulated freedom  might  beimpaired (p. 308).Learned	 counsel  for the State has strongly relied  on	 twodecisions of the Australian High Court in both of which	 thevalidity  of a New South Wales Statute called the  Lotteriesand  Art  Unions  Act  1901-1929  was  called  in  question.Section	 21 of that Act provided: "Whoever sells  or  offersfor sale or accepts any money in respect of the purchase  ofany ticket or share in a foreign lottery shall be liable  toa  penalty."  In the first of those two	 cases-The  King  v.Connare(2)-the appellant offered for sale in Sydney a ticketin  a  lottery	lawfully  conducted  in	 Tasmania  and	 wasconvicted  of  an offence under s. 21.	 He  challenged	 thevalidity  of the law on the ground that it  interfered	withthe  freedom  of trade, commerce and intercourse  among	 theStates	and consequently violated the provisions of  s.	 92.It  was	 held  by Starke, Dixon,  Evatt	 and  McTiernan	 JJ.(Latham C.J. and Rich J. dissenting) that the provisions  ofs.  21	did  not  contravene s. 92  and	 the  appellant	 wasproperly convicted.  Starke J. discussed the question as  towhether the sale in -question was an 'inter-State or  intra-state  transaction but did not think it necessary to  decidethat question.	After referring to the observations of	LordWright	in  James v. The Commonwealth (3) that	the  freedomdeclared by s. 92 meant freedom at the frontier, the learnedJudge observed that the question(1) L.R. (1950) A.C. 235, 302-303:  (2) (1939) 51 C.L.R.596.(3) L.R. (1936) A.C. 578,627.909whether	 that  freedom	had  been  restricted  or   burdeneddepended upon the true character and effect of the Act.	  Hetook  the view (at p. 616) that the main purpose of the	 Actwas  to prevent or suppress lotteries and  particularly,  inss.  19, 20 and 21, foreign lotteries and that it was  aimedat preventing what he graphically described as "illegitimatemethods	 of  trading",	if sales  of  lottery  tickets	wereregarded  as  trading.	The learned Judge took note  of	 thefact  that New South Wales law allowed State  lotteries	 andconcluded that the true character of the impugned Act was tosuppress  gambling in foreign lottery tickets  and  examinedfrom  the historical point of view, from, the  character  ofthe  Act,  its	function and its effect	 upon  the  flow  ofcommerce,  the Act did not, in his view, restrict or  hinderthe freedom of any trade across the frontier of the  States.Dixon J., as he then was, gave two reasons for his  opinion,namely that the transaction was not in itself a	 transactionof inter-State trade' commerce or intercourse but was a salein  New South Wales of a ticket then in New South Wales	 andthat, apart from the State lottery and permitted  charitableraffles,  the  Act  suppressed uniformly  the  sale  of	 alllottery	 tickets  in  New South	 Wales.	  Adverting  to	 theargument  which,  in substance, asked the Court	 to  declarethat s. 92 had created an overriding constitutional right totraffic or invest in lotteries so long as the trafficker  orinvestor  could	 succeed in placing some boundary  or  otherbetween	 himself and the conductor of the lottery  Evatt  J.said at pp. 619-20:it  in my opinion such a proposition cannot be supported  inprinciple  or by reference to authority.  For it is  obviousthat the appellant's argument also involves the assertion ofthe  constitutional  right of a citizen, so long as  he	 canrely upon, or if necessary artificially create, some  inter-State  connection  in  his business, to	 sell  indecent	 andobscene	  publications,	 diseased  cattle,   impure   foods,unbranded  poisons, unstamped silver, ungraded fruit and  soforth."The obvious inconvenience and undesirability of the  effectsto be produced if such extravagant arguments117910were  to prevail led the learned Judge to think (at p.	620)that  in the interpretation of s. 92 it was  permissible  toaccept	some  postulates  or axioms demanded  alike  by	 thedictates  of common sense and by some knowledge of what	 wasbeing	attempted   by	the  founders  of   the	  AustralianCommonwealth.	Making	these  assumptions  and	 concessionsEvatt J. opined (at p. 621) that the guarantee contained  ins.  92 had nothing whatever,/ to say on the topic of  inter-State  lotteries and could not be invoked to prevent  eitherthe suppression or the restriction in the public interest ofthe  practice  of gambling or investing in  such  lotteries.The  learned Judge did not think that lottery tickets  couldbe  regarded as goods or commodities which were entitled  tothe protection of s. 92 and concluded thus at p. 628: "  If they are goods or commodities they belong to  a	veryspecial	 category, so special that in the interests  of	 itscitizens  the  State may legitimately exile  them  from	 therealm  of trade, commerce or business.	 The  indiscriminatesale  of  such tickets may be regarded as  causing  businessdisturbance  and loss which, on general grounds	 of  policy,the State is entitled to prevent or at least minimize."  McTiernan J. was even more forthright in placing  gamblingoutside the pale of trade, commerce and intercourse.  At  p.631 he said:"  Some	 trades	 are more adventurous  or  speculative	thanothers, but trade or commerce as a branch of human  activitybelongs	 to  an	 order entirely	 different  from  gaming  orgambling.   Whether a particular activity falls	 within	 theone or the other order is a matter of social opinion  ratherthan   jurisprudence......   .....................   It	  isgambling,  to  buy a ticket or shard in a lottery.   Such  atransaction  does not belong to the commercial	business  ofthe  country.	The purchaser stakes money in a	 scheme	 fordistributing prizes by chance.	He is a gamester."   A little further down the learned Judge observed:  "It  is  not a commercial arrangement to  sell  a  lotteryticket; for it is merely the acceptance of money911or  the	 promise of money for a chance.	 In  this  case	 thepurchase  of  a	 lottery ticket merely founds  a  hope	thatsomething will happen in Tasmania to benefit the purchaser."  Naturally  enough learned counsel for the appellant  Stateseeks to fasten upon the observations quoted or referred  toabove  in support of his thesis that gambling is not  trade,commerce or intercourse within the meaning alike of s. 92 ofthe  Australian Constitution and our Art. 19(1)(g) and	Art.301.  In  the  second  case-The  King  v.  Martin  (1)-the	samequestion  came up for reconsideration.	The only  differencein  fact was that there was no actual sale by delivery of  alottery ticket in New South Wales but money was received  bythe  agent of the Tasmania promoter in New South  Wales	 andtransmitted to Tasmania from where the lottery ticket was tobe  sent.   The State law was again  upheld.   Latham  C.J.,Rich,  Starke,	Evatt  and Mctiernan JJ.  adhered  to  theirrespective  opinions  expressed in the earlier case  of	 TheKing  v. Connare (2 ). Dixon J., as he then was, gave a	 newreason for his opinion that notwithstanding the	 inter-Statecharacter  of the transaction s. 21 of the impugned Act	 wasvalid.	Said the learned Judge at pp. 461-462:  " The reason for my opinion is that the application of thelaw does not depend upon any characteristics of lotteries orlottery	 transactions in virtue of which they are  trade  orcommerce or intercourse nor upon any inter-State element  intheir  nature.	The only criterion of its operation  is	 thealeatory description of the acts which it forbids.  There isno   prohibition  or  restraint	 placed	 upon  any  act	  inconnection  with  a lottery because either the	act  or	 thelottery	 is or involves commerce or trade or intercourse  ormovement  into	or out of New South Wales  or  communicationbetween		that	    State	 and	     anotherState.................................	To say	that  inter-State trade, commerce and intercourse shall be free, means,,I think, that no restraint or burden shall be placed upon anact  falling under that description because it is  trade  orcommerce or(1) (1939) 62 C.L.R. 457.   (2) (1939) 61 C.L.R. 596.912intercourse    or   involves   inter-State    movement	  orcommunication."  In  this view of the matter Dixon J. now upheld s.  21  ofthe  impugned  Act on the ground that the criterion  of	 itsapplication   was  the	specific  gambling  nature  of	 thetransactions  which  it	 penalised and	not  anything  whichbrought	 the  transactions under the description  of  trade,commerce  or  intercourse or made them interState  in  theirnature.  Then	came the case of  Commonwealth of Australia v.	Bankof New South Wales(1) commonly called the Bank case where itwas held that s. 46 of the Banking Act, 1947, was invalid asoffending  against  s. 92 of  the  Australian  Constitution.Sub-section (1) of s. 46 provided that a private bank shouldnot,  after  the commencement of the Act, carry	 on  bankingbusiness  in  Australia except as required by  the  section.Subsection (2) laid down that each private bank should carryon  banking business in Australia and should not, except  onappropriate  grounds,  cease  to  provide  any	facility  orservice provided by it in the course of its banking businesson the fifteenth day of August one thousand nine hundred andforty seven.  Sub-section (4) authorised that the  Treasurermight,	by  notice  published in the gazette  and  given  inwriting	 to  a private bank, require that  private  bank  tocease,	upon  a date specified in the  notice,	carrying  onbusiness  in Australia.	 Sub-section (8) provided that	uponand  after the date specified in a notice under	 sub-s.	 (4)the  private bank to which that notice was given should	 notcarry on banking business in Australia.	 It also provided  apenalty	 of pound 10,000 for each day on which	the  contra-vention	 occurred.  The question was: Whether  this  sectioninterfered   with   the	 freedom  of  trade,   commerce	  orintercourse  among  the	 States declared by  s.	 92  of	 theAustralian  Constitution ? It was held that the business  ofbanking	 which	consisted of the creation  and	transfer  ofcredit,	 the making of loans, the purchase and	disposal  ofinvestments  and  other kindred	 transactions  was  includedamong  those  activities described as  trade,  commerce	 andintercourse in s. 92(1) L.R. (1950) A.C. 235.913and,  accordingly,  the impugned s. 46 which  while  leavinguntouched the Commonwealth and State Banks,, prohibited	 thecarrying  on  in  Australia of the business  of	 banking  byprivate	 banks,	 was invalid as contravening  s.  92.	LordPorter	delivering  the judgment of the	 Judicial  Committeepointed out that it was no longer arguable that freedom fromcustoms	 or other monetary charges alone was secured by	 thesection.  Then after reviewing and explaining at some lengththe two cases of James V. Cowan (1) and James v. The Common-wealth(2),   his   Lordships  proceeded	 to   make   certainobservations  on the distinction between restrictions  whichare  regulatory	 and do not offend against s. 92  and  thosewhich  are something more than regulatory and do so  offend.His  Lordship  deduced	two general  propositions  from	 thedecided cases, namely (1) that regulation of trade, commerceand  intercourse  among	 the  States  was  compatible	withabsolute freedom and (2) that s. 92 was violated only when alegislative  or	 executive act operated to  restrict  trade,commerce   and	intercourse  directly  and  immediately	  asdistinct  from	creating  some	indirect  or   consequentialimpediment  which might fairly be regarded as  remote.	 Theproblem	 whether  an enactment was regulatory  or  somethingmore  or whether a restriction was direct or only remote  oronly  incidental involved, his Lordship pointed out, not  somuch legal as political, social or economic  considerations.Referring  to  the  case  of  Australian  National   AirwaysProprietory  Ltd.  v.  The  Commonwealth  (3)  his  Lordshipexpressed   his	  agreement  with  the	view   that   simpleprohibition  was  not regulation.  A  little  further  down,however,  his  Lordship made a reservation that he  did	 notintend	to  lay	 down that in  no  circumstances  could	 theexclusion of competition so as to create a monopoly,  eitherin  a  State  or Commonwealth agency, or in  some  body,  bejustified  and	that every case must be judged	on  its	 ownfacts and in its own setting of time and circumstances,	 andthat it might be that in regard to some economic  activitiesand at some stage of social development it might be(1) L.R. (1932) A.C. 542.     (3) (1945) 71 C.L.R. 29.(2)L.R. (1936) A.C. 578, 627.914maintained  that prohibition with a view to  State  monopolywas the only practical and reasonable manner of	 regulation,and  that inter-State trade, commerce and  intercourse	thusprohibited  and thus  monopolised remained absolutely  free.His  Lordship further added that, regulation of trade  mightclearly	 take  the  form of denying  certain  activities  topersons by age or circumstances unfit to perform them or  ofexcluding  from	 passage  across the  frontier	of  a  Statecreatures  or  things  calculated to  injure  its  citizens.Referring  to  the  doctrine of	 "pith	and  substance"	 hisLordship  observed that it, no doubt, raised  in  convenientform  an appropriate question in cases where the real  issuewas  one of subject matter as when the point was  whether  aparticular piece of legislation was a law in respect of somesubject within the permitted field, but it might also  servea  useful  purpose  in the process of  deciding	 whether  anenactment   which  worked  some	 interference  with   trade,commerce and intercourse among the States was, nevertheless,untouched by s.	    92	as being essentially  regulatory  incharacter.The  last  Australian case on the point cited before  us  isMansell v. Beck(1).  In this case also the provisions of theLotteries and Art Unions Act of New South Wales came up	 forconsideration and the decisions in the King v. Connare	(11)and  the  King v. Martin(1). were considered  and  approved.Dixon C.J. and Webb J. observed that the true content of theState  law must be ascertained to see whether the  law	thatresulted  from	the whole impaired the freedom which  s.  92protected.   Their Lordships pointed out that lotteries	 notconducted under the authority of Government were  suppressedas  pernicious.	  The  impugned legislation  was,  in  theirLordships'  view,  of a traditional  kind  directed  againstlotteries   as	such  independently  altogether	 of   trade,commerce  and  intercourse  between  States.   McTiernan  J.reiterated  the	 views he had expressed in the case  of	 theKing v. Connare (2) in the following words:(1)  (Australian Law journal, Vol. 3o.	No. 7 P. 346).(2)  (1939) 61 C.L.R. 596.(3)  (1939) 62 C.L.R. 457.915It is important to observe the distinction that gambling  isnot trade, commerce and intercourse within the meaning of s.92  otherwise the control of gambling in Australia would  beattended with constitutional difficulties."  Williams  J. did not consider it necessary to express	 anyfinal opinion on the question whether there could be  inter-State  commerce in respect of lottery tickets.	He took	 theview  that ss. 20 and 21 of the New South Wales Act were  ontheir  face  concerned and concerned only  with	 intra-Statetransactions  and  that their provisions  did  not  directlyhinder,	 burden or delay any inter-State trade, commerce  orintercourse.   His Lordship observed that there was  nothingin  the	 reasoning in the judgment in the Bank	case  or  insubsequent decisions to indicate that the King v. Connare(1)and' King v. Martin(2) were not rightly decided.  He quoted,with  approval,	 the observations of Dixon  J.	in  Martin'scase.	Fullagar  J. also took the view	 that  the  previousdecisions  of  the  High Court in  Connare's  case  (1)	 andMartin's case(2) were rightly decided for the reasons  givenby  Dixon  J.  Kitto J. dissented from	the  majority  view.Taylor	J.  who was also in favour of the  validity  of	 theimpugned law, observed:  " No simple legislative expedient purporting to  transmutetrade  and commerce into something else will remove it	fromthe  ambit of s. 92.  But whilst asserting the width of	 thefield in which s. 92 may operate it is necessary to  observethat not every transaction which employs the forms of  tradeand  commerce  will,  as  trade	 and  commerce,	 invoke	 itsprotection.  The sale of stolen goods, when the	 transactionis  juristically analysed, is no different from the sale  ofany other goods but can it be doubted that the Parliament ofany  State  may prohibit the sale of  stolen  goods  withoutinfringing  s.	92 of the Constitution ?  The  only  featurewhich  distinguishes  such  a  transaction  from  trade	 andcommerce  as  generally	 understood is to be  found  in	 thesubject	 of the transaction; there is no difference  in	 themeans adopted for carrying it out.  Yet it may be said	thatin essence such a transaction(1) (193) 61 C.L.R. 596.   (2) (1939) 62 C.L.R. 457.916constitutes no part of trade and commerce as that expressionis   generally	understood.   Numerous	examples  of   othertransactions  may  be given, such as the sale  of  a  forgedpassport,  or, the sale of counterfeit money, which  provokethe same comment and, although legislation prohibiting	suchtransactions  may,  possibly,  be  thought  to	be   legallyjustifiable  pursuant  to  what	 has,  on  occasions,	beenreferred to as a "Police power", I prefer to think that	 thesubjects  of  such transactions are not, on  any  view,	 thesubjects of trade and commerce as that expression is used ins.  92 and that the protection afforded by that section	 hasnothing	 to do with such transactions even though  they	 mayrequire,  for their consummation, the employment of  instru-ments,	whereby inter-State trade and commerce	is  commonlycarried on."  After referring to the history of lotteries in England thelearned Judge concluded:  "  The foregoing observations give some indication of	 theattitude  of  the  law for over two  and  a  half  centuriestowards	 the carrying on of lotteries.	But they  show	alsothat,  in this country, lotteries were, from the  moment  ofits first settlement, common and public nuisances and  that,in  general,  it was impossible to conduct  them  except  inviolation  of the law.	Indeed it was impracticable for	 anyperson to conduct a lottery without achieving the status  ofa rogue and a vagabond."  In the Constitution of the United States of America  thereis  no counterpart to Art. 301 of our Constitution or s.  92of  the	 Australian Constitution.  The problem	of  gamblingcame  up  before the courts in America	in  quite  differentsetting.  Article 1, s. 8, sub-s. (3) of the Constitution ofthe  United States compendiously called the commerce  clausegives  power  to  the Congress	to  regulate  commerce	withforeign	 nations and among the several States and  with	 theIndian tribes.	Congress having made law regulating gamblingactivities  which  extended across the	State  borders,	 thequestion arose whether the making of the law was within	 thelegislative  competence	 of  the Congress, that	 is  to	 saywhether it could be brought within the commerce917clause.	 The question depended for its answer on the furtherquestion whether the gambling activities could be said to becommerce amongst the States.  If it could, then it was	opento  Congress to make the law in exercise of its	 legislativepowers	under  the  commerce clause.  More  often  than	 notgambling activities extend from State to State and, in	viewof the commerce clause, no State Legislature can make a	 lawfor  regulating	 inter-State  activities in  the  nature  oftrade.	 If  betting and gambling does not fall	 within	 theambit of the commerce clause, then neither the Congress	 northe  State Legislature can in any way control the same.	  Insuch circumstances, the Supreme Court of America thought  itright to give a wide meaning to the word "commerce" so as toinclude	 gambling  within the commerce	clause	and  therebyenable the Congress to regulate and control the same.	Thusin Champion v. Ames(1) the carriage of lottery tickets	from'one  State to another by an express company was held to  beinter-State  commerce and the court upheld the law  made  byCongress  which made such carriage an offence.	In  HipoliteEgg  Co.  v.  United  States(2)	 the  Pure  Food  Act  whichprohibited the importation of adulterated food was upheld asan  exercise  of  the  power of	 the  Congress	to  regulatecommerce.   The prohibition of transportation of  women	 forimmoral purposes from one State to another or to a  foreign,land  has  also been held to be within the  commerce  clause(see Hoke v. United States (3) ). SO has the prohibition  ofobscene literature and articles for immoral use.   Referencehas  also  been	 made  to the  cases  of  United  States  v.Kahriger(4)  and Lewis V.  United States(5) to	support	 thecontention of the appellant State that the Supreme Court  ofthe  United States looked with great disfavour	on  gamblingactivities.   In  the  last mentioned case  it	was  roundlystated	at p. 480 that "there is no constitutional right  togamble ".(1)  [1903] 188 U.S. 321 ; 47 L. Ed. 492.(2)  [1911] 220 U.S. 45 ; 55 L. Ed. 364.(3)  [1913] 227 U.S. 308 ; 57 L. Ed. 523.(4)  [1953] 345 U.S. 22 ; 97 L. Ed. 754.(5)  [1955] 348 U.S. 419; 99 L. Ed. 475.918In  construing	the  provisions	 of  our  Constitution	 thedecisions  of  the American Supreme Court  on  the  commerceclause and the decisions of the Australian High Court and ofthe  Privy Council on s. 92 of the  Australian	Constitutionshould,	 for reasons pointed out by this Court in  State  ofTravancore-Cochin  1. The Bombay Co. Ltd. (1), be used	withcaution	 and circumspection.  Our Constitution differs	fromboth  American	and  Australian	 Constitutions.	  There	  isnothing	 in the American Constitution corresponding  to	 ourArt.  19(1)  (g)  or Art. 301.	In  the	 United	 States	 theproblem	 was  that  if	gambling did  not  come	 within	 thecommerce  clause,  then neither the Congress nor  any  StateLegislature  could  interfere with or  regulate	 inter-Stategambling.  Our Constitution, however, has provided  adequatesafeguards in cl. (6) of Art. 19 and in Arts. 302-305.	 Thescheme of the Australian Constitution also is different fromthat of ours, for in the Australian Constitution there is nosuch provision as we have in Art. 19(6) or Arts. 302-304  ofour Constitution.  The provision of s. 92 of the  AustralianConstitution  being in terms unlimited and  unqualified	 thejudicial  authorities  interpreting the same had  to  importcertain	 restrictions  and limitations	dictated  by  commonsense and the exigencies of modern society.  This they	did,in  some cases, by holding that certain activities  did	 notamount	to  trade,  commerce or intercourse  and,  in  othercases,	by applying the doctrine of pith and  substance	 andholding that the impugned law was not a law with respect  totrade, commerce or intercourse.	 The difficulty which  facedthe   judicial	authorities  interpreting  s.  92   of	 theAustralian Constitution cannot arise under our Constitution,for our Constitution did not stop at declaring by Art. 19(1)(g) a fundamental right to carry on trade or business or  atdeclaring  by  Art. 301 the freedom of trade,  commerce	 andinter. course but proceeded to make provision by Art.  19(6)and  Arts.  302-305  for imposing in  the  interest  of	 thegeneral	 public reasonable restrictions on the	exercise  ofthe  rights guaranteed and declared by Art. 19 (1)  (g)	 andArt. 301.  As one of us said in P. P. Kutti Keya(1)  (1952) S.C.R. 1112 at p. 1121919v.   The State of Madras(1) the framers of our Constitution,being  aware  of  the problems	with  which  the  AustralianGovernment had been confronted by reason of s. 92, sought tosolve  them by enacting limitations in Part XIII  itself  onthe  freedom guaranteed in Art. 301.  Our  task,  therefore,will be to interpret our Constitution and ascertain  whetherthe prize competitions falling within the definition of	 theimpugned Act, all of which are of a gambling nature, can  besaid to be a "trade or business" within the meaning of	Art.19(1)  (g) or "trade, commerce and intercourse " within	 themeaning of Art. 301 of our Constitution.The scheme of our Constitution, as already indicated, is  toprotect	 the freedom of each individual citizen to carry  onhis trade or business.	This it does by Art. 19(1)(g).	Thisguaranteed  right is, however, subject to Art.	19(6)  whichprotects a law which imposes, in the interest of the generalpublic,	 reasonable  restrictions  on the  exercise  of	 thefundamental  right  guaranteed	by  Art.  19(1)	 (g).	 OurConstitution  also  proclaims  by Art. 301  the	 freedom  oftrade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory  ofIndia'	subject	 to the provisions of  Arts.  302-305  whichpermit	 the   imposition  of  reasonable   restriction	  byParliament and the State Legislatures.	The 'underlying ideain  making trade, commerce and intercourse with, as well  aswithin,	 the  States free undoubtedly was to  emphasise	 theunity  of India and to ensure that no barriers might be	 setup  to break up the national unity.  One important point  tonote  is that the language used in Art. 19(1) (g)  and	Art.301 is quite general and that the provisions for restrictingthe  exercise  of  the fundamental right  and  the  declaredfreedom of the country's trade, commerce and intercourse aremade  separately,  e.g., by Art. 19(6)	and  Arts.  302-305.This  circumstance is fastened upon by learned	counsel	 forthe petitioners for contending that the right guaranteed  byArt.  19(1)(g) and the freedom declared by Art. 301  should,in  the	 first	instance and to start with,  be	 widely	 andliberally construed and then reasonable restrictions may  besuperimposed on that right under Art. 19(6) or Arts. 302-305in the interest of the general public.	According(1)  A.I.R. (1954) mad. 621.920to him the words "trade" or "business" or "commerce"  shouldbe  read in their widest amplitude as meaning  any  activitywhich  is  undertaken or carried on with a view	 to  earningprofit.	  There is nothing in those two Arts.  19(1)(g)	 and301, which, he says, may qualify or cut down the meaning  ofthe   critical	words.	 He  contends  that  there   is	  nojustification for excluding from the meaning of those  wordsactivities  which may be looked upon with disfavour  by	 theState or the Court as injurious to public morality or publicinterest.  The argument is that if the trade or business  isof  the	 last  mentioned  character,  then  the	 appropriateLegislature   may   impose  restrictions   which   will	  bejusticiable  by	 the  courts and this  restriction  may,  inappropriate  cases, even extend to total  prohibition.	 Ourattention has been drawn to Art. 25 where the limiting words"  subject to public order, morality and health "  are	usedand it is pointed out that no such limiting words are to  befound  in Art. 19(1)(g) or Art. 301.  In short the  argumentis  that Art. 19(1) (g) and Art. 301 guarantee	and  declarethe freedom of all activities undertaken and carried on witha  view to earning profit and the safeguard is	provided  inArt.  19(6) and Arts. 302-305.	The proper approach  to	 thetask   of   construction   of  these   provisions   of	 ourConstitution*,	it  is	urged, is  to  start  with  absolutefreedom	 and  then to permit the State to cut  it  down,  ifnecessary,  by restrictions which may even extend  to  totalprohibition.  On this argument it will follow that  criminalactivities undertaken and carried on with a view to  earningprofit	will be protected as fundamental rights	 until	theyare  restricted	 by law.  Thus there will  be  a  guaranteedright to carry on a business of hiring out goondas to commitassault or even murder, of housebreaking, of selling obscenepictures,  of trafficking in women and so on until  the	 lawcurbs  or  stops such activities. This appears to us  to  becompletely  unrealistic and incongruous.  We have  no  doubtthat   there  are  certainactivities  which  can  under	  nocircumstance  be regarded as trade or business	or  commercealthough  the  usual  forms  and  instruments  are  employedtherein.   To exclude those activities from the	 meaning  ofthose words is not to cut down their meaning at all921but to say only that they are not within the true meaning ofthose words.  Learned counsel has to concede that there	 canbe  no "trade" or "business" in crime but submits that	thisprinciple should not be extended and that in any event thereis no reason to hold that gambling does not fall within	 thewords  "trade"	or "business" or "commerce" as used  in	 theArticles  under consideration.	The question arises  whetherour  Constitution makers ever intended that gambling  shouldbe  a fundamental right within the meaning of Art.  19(1)(g)or within the protected freedom declared by Art. 301.  The  avowed  purpose of our Constitution is  to  create  awelfare State.	The directive principles of State policy setforth  in Part IV of our Constitution enjoin upon the  Statethe  duty to strive to promote the welfare of the people  bysecuring and protecting, as effectively as it may, a  socialorder  in  which justice, social,  economic  and  political,shall inform all the institutions of the national life.	  Itis the duty of the State to secure to every citizen, men andwomen,	the right to an adequate means of livelihood and  tosee that the health and strength of workers, men and  women,and  the tender age of children are not abused,	 to  protectchildren  and youths against exploitation and against  moraland material abandonment.  It is to be the endeavour of	 theState to secure a living wage, conditions of work ensuring adecent	standard of life and full enjoyment of	leisure	 andsocial	and  cultural opportunities, to protect	 the  weakersections  of the people from social injustice and all  formsof  exploitation,  to raise the standard of  living  of	 itspeople	and the improvement of public health.  The  questioncanvassed  before us is whether the Constitution makers	 whoset up such an ideal of a welfare State could possibly	haveintended  to  elevate betting and gambling on the  level  ofcountry's trade or business or commerce and to guarantee  toits citizens, the right to carry on the same.  There can  beonly one answer to the question.  From	ancient times seers and law givers of  India  lookedupon gambling as a sinful and pernicious vice and deprecatedits practice.  Hymn XXXIV of the922Rigveda proclaims the demerit of gambling.  Verses 7, 10 and13 say:"  7  Dice verily are armed with goads	and  driving  hooks,deceiving  and tormenting, causing grievous woe.  They	givefrail  gifts  and  then destroy the man	 who  wins,  thicklyanointed with the player's fairest good. 10  The  gambler's wife is left forlorn and  wretched:	 themother mourns the son who wanders homeless. In  constant fear, in debt, and seeking riches, he goes  bynight unto the home of others. 11 Play not with dice: no, cultivate thy corn-land.  Enjoy the gain, and deem that wealth sufficient.  There are thy cattle, there thy wife, O gambler.  So	thisgoodSavitar himself hath told me."  The  Mahabharata  deprecates	gambling  by  depicting	 thewoeful conditions of the Pandavas who had gambled away theirkingdom.   Manu	 forbade  gambling  altogether.	  Verse	 221advises	 the  king to exclude from his	realm  gambling	 andbetting,  for those two vices cause the destruction  of	 thekingdom	 of  princes.  Verse 224 enjoins upon the  king	 theduty  to  corporally  punish all those	persons	 who  eithergamble	or bet or provide an opportunity for it.  Verse	 225calls  upon the king to instantly banish all  gamblers	fromhis town.  In verse 226 the gamblers are described as secretthieves	 who  constantly harass the good subjects  by  theirforbidden  practices.	Verse  227  calls  gambling  a	vicecausing great enmity and advises wise men not to practise iteven for amusement.  The concluding verse 228 provides	thaton  every  man	who  addicts himself  to  that	vice  eithersecretly or openly the king may inflict punishment accordingto his discretion.  While Manu condemned gambling  outright,Yajnavalkya  sought to bring it under State control  but  hetoo  in	 verse 202(2) provided that  persons  gambling	withfalse  dice  or	 other instruments  should  be	branded	 andpunished by the king.  Kautilya also advocated State controlof gambling and, as a practical person that he was, was923not-averse  to	the State earning  some	 revenue  therefrom.Vrihaspati dealing with gambling in chapter XXVI, verse 199,recognises that gambling had been totally prohibited by Manubecause it destroyed truth, honesty and -wealth, while otherlaw givers permitted it when conducted under the control  ofthe  State so as to allow the king a share of  every  stake.Such  was the notion of Hindu law givers regarding the	viceof  gambling.  Hamilton in his Hedaya, vol.  IV, book  XLIV,includes  gambling as a kiraheeat or abomination.  He  says:"It  is an abomination to play at chess, dice or  any  othergame;  for  if anything is staked it is gambling,  which  isexpressly prohibited in the Koran; or if, on the other band,nothing	 be hazarded it is useless and vain."  The  wageringcon.  tracts of the type which formed the subject-matter  ofthe case of Ramloll v. Soojumnull (1) and was upheld by	 thePrivy  Council	as not repugnant to the English	 Common	 Lawwere  subsequently prohibited by Act XXI of 1948  which	 wasenacted on the suggestion of Lord Campbell made in that caseand  introduced in India provisions similar to those of	 theEnglish	 Gaming Act (8 & 9 Vict. c. 109).   Bengal  GamblingAct (Ben.  II of 1867) provided for the punishment of publicgambling  and  the  keeping of common gaming  house  in	 theterritories  subject to the Lieutenant Governor	 of  Bengal.Lottery has been, since 1870, made an offence, under s. 294Aof  the	 Indian Penal Code.  Gambling agreements  have	beendeclared to be void under the Indian Contract Act, 1872	 (s.30).  This in short is how gambling is viewed in India.  Before  the Legislature intervened, gambling and  wageringwere  not prohibited by the English Common Law although	 theEnglish courts looked upon it with disfavour and discouragedit  on	grounds	 of  public  policy  by	 denying  proceduralfacilities  which  were	 granted to  other  litigants.	 TheScottish  courts, however, have always refused to  recognisethe  validity  of  wagering contracts  and  have  held	thatsponsiones ludicroe, as they style such contracts, are	voidby the Common Law of Scotland.	Gambling and Betting Act,(1)  (1848) 4 M.I.A. 339.9241664 (16 Car. 11, c. 7) was directed against fraudulent	 andexcessive gambling and betting at games or sports.  This wasfollowed by the Gaming Act of 1710 (9 Anne.c.	  19).	 TheMarine Insurance Act 1745 (19 Geo. 11 C.     37)   for	 thefirst  time prohibited wagering policies on risks  connectedwith British shipping.	This was supplemented by the  Marine-Insurance  Act	 1788  (28  Geo.   III	c.  56).   The	LifeInsurance Act, 1774 (14 Geo.  III c. 48) though not intendedto  prohibit wagering in general, prohibited wagering  underthe cloak- of a mercantile document which purported to be  acontract of insurance.	Then came the Gaming Act of 1845  (8and  9 Vict. c. 109) which for the first time  declared	 allcontracts   made   by  way  of	gaming	or   wagering	voidirrespective   of   their  form	 or   subject-matter.	 Theprovisions  of this Act were adopted by our Act XXI of	1948as here in before mentioned.  The Gaming Act of 1892 (55 and56 Viet. c. 9) further tightened up the law.As  far back as 1850 the Supreme Court of America in  Phalenv. Virginia(1) observed:   " Experience has shown that the common forms of  gamblingare  comparatively  innocuous when placed in  contrast	withwidespread pestilence of lotteries.  The former are confinedto  a  few persons and places, but the	latter	infests	 thewhole community; it enters every dwelling; it reaches  everyclass;	it  preys  upon the hard earnings of  the  poor;  itplunders the ignorant and the simple.  The observations were quoted, with approval, in Douglas v.Kentucky  (2  ). After quoting the passage  from  Phalen  v.Virginia (1) the judgment proceeded:  "Is  the state forbidden by the supreme law 'of  the	landfrom protecting its people at all times from practices whichit  conceives to be attended by such ruinous  results?	 Canthe  Legislature  of  a State contract	away  its  power  toestablish such regulations as are reasonably necessary	fromtime to time to protect the public morals against the, evilsof lotteries ?"(1)  [1850] 49 U.S. 163; 12 L. Ed. 1030,1033.(2)  [1897] 168 U.S. 488 ; 42 L.  Ed. 553, 555.925It will be abundantly clear from the foregoing	observationsthat  the  activities  which have  been	 condemned  in	thiscountry	 from  ancient	times appear to	 have  been  equallydiscouraged  and  looked  upon with  disfavour	in  England,Scotland,  the United States of America and in Australia  inthe cases referred to above.  We find it difficult to acceptthe  contention	 that  those activities	 which	encourage  aspirit of reckless propensity for making easy gain by lot orchance,	 which lead to the loss of the hard earned money  ofthe  undiscerning  and improvident common  man	and  therebylower  his standard of living and drive him into  a  chronicstate  of indebtedness and eventually disrupt the peace	 andhappiness  of  his  humble home	 could	possibly  have	beenintended  by  our Constitution makers to be  raised  to	 thestatus of trade, commerce or intercourse and to be made	 thesubject-matter	of' a fundamental right guaranteed  by	Art.19(1) (g).  We find it difficult to persuade ourselves	thatgambling was ever intended to form any part of this  ancientcountry's  trade, commerce or intercourse to be declared  asfree under Art. 301.  It is not our purpose nor is it neces-sary  for us in deciding this case to attempt an  exhaustivedefinition    of   the	 word	"trade",   "business",	  or"intercourse".	 We  are, however, clearly of  opinion	thatwhatever  else may or may not be regarded as falling  withinthe  meaning  of these words, gambling cannot  certainly  betaken  as one of them.	We are convinced and satisfied	thatthe  real  purpose  of Arts. 19(1) (g)	and  301  could	 notpossibly  have been to guarantee or declare the	 freedom  ofgambling.  Gambling activities from their very nature and inessence	 are extra-commercium although the  external  forms,formalities  and  instruments of trade may be  employed	 andthey are not protected either by Art. 19 (1) (g) orArt. 301 of our Constitution.  The  Court of Appeal; we have already said, took the	viewthat it was not open to the State, which had not thought fitto prohibit these prize competitions but had sought to	makea  profit  out of them by levying a tax, to contend  at	 thesame  time that it was illegal or was not a "trade" at	all.But as pointed out in United119926States	v.  Kahrigar (1), the fact of issuing a	 licence  orimposing a tax means nothing except that the licensee  shallbe  subject  to no penalties under the law if  he  pays	 it.Lewis  v. United States of America (2) also recognises	thatthe Federal Government may tax what it also forbids and thatnobody	has a constitutional right to gamble but that if  heelects	to  do, so, though it be unlawful, he must  pay	 thetax.   In  this	 connection reference may  be  made  to	 theobservation of Rowlatt J. in Mann v. Nash  (3) :   "  The revenue authorities, representing the	 State,	 aremerely looking at an accomplished fact.	 It is not condoningit or taking part in it.Further down he said:"  It  is  merely taxing the individual	 with  reference  tocertain	 facts.	  It  is not a partner or a  sharer  in	 theillegality."  That	crime is not a business is also recognised in F.  A.Lindsay,  A. E. Woodward and W. Hiscox v. The  Commissionersof Inland Revenue (4)(per Lord President Clyde and per	LordSands) and in Southern (H.  M. Inspector of Taxes) v. A.  B.The  fact  that regulatory provisions have been	 enacted  tocontrol	 gambling by issuing licences and by imposing  taxesdoes  not in any way alter the nature of gambling  which  isinherently vicious and pernicious.We  also arrive at the same result by applying the  doctrineof 'pith and substance'.  As Lord Porter pointed out: "	 Thephrase	raised in a convenient form an appropriate  questionin  cases where the real issue is one of subject matter	 andit  may	 also  serve  a useful purpose	in  the	 process  ofdeciding  whether  a  particular enactment  is	a  law	withrespect to trade, commerce or intercourse as such or whetherit  is	a  law	with respect to	 some  other  subject  whichincidentally trenches upon trade, commerce and intercourse."Reference has already been made to the observations (1) 345 U.S. 22; 97 L. Ed. 754.(2)  348 U.S. 49 ; 99 L. Ed- 475.(3) L. R.(1932) 1 K.B.D. 752 at P. 757.(4)  18 T.C. 43.(5)  L.R. (1933) 1 K.B. 713; 18 T.C. 59.927of Dixon J., as he then was, in King v. Martin (1).   Adapt-ing  his  language,  we	 may say  that	when  Art.  19(1)(g)guarantees  or Art. 301 declares the freedom of	 trade	theydescribe human activities in a specific aspect.	 They singleout  attributes	 which the act or transaction may  wear	 andmake  the  freedom,  which they confer,	 depend	 upon  thoseattributes.   The  freedom secured by the two  Articles,  wethink,	implies	 that no unreasonable  restraint  or  burdenshall  be placed upon an act falling under that	 descriptionbecause	 it  is trade or commerce or intercourse.   We	haveanalysed the provisions of the impugned Act and it is  quiteclear  that the Act does not purport directly  to  interferewith  trade,  commerce	or  intercourse	 as  such,  for	 thecriterion of its application is the specific gambling natureof  the transaction which it restricts.	 The purpose of	 theAct   is   not	to  restrict  anything	which	brings	 thetransactions  under  the description of trade,	commerce  orintercourse.   In  other  words,  the Act  is  in  pith	 andsubstance  an Act with respect to betting and gambling.	  Tocontrol	 and  restrict	betting	 and  gambling	is  not	  tointerfere with trade, commerce or intercourse as such but tokeep  the flow of trade, commerce and intercourse  free	 andunpolluted  and to save it from anti-social activities.	  Inour opinion, therefore, the impugned Act deals with gamblingwhich is not trade, commerce or business and, therefore, thevalidity  of the Act has not to be decided by the  yardstickof  reasonableness  and public interest laid down  in  Arts.19(6)  and  304.   The appeal  against	the  stringency	 andharshness,  if	any, of the law does not lie to a  court  oflaw. In  the view we have taken, it is not necessary for  us  toconsider  or express any opinion on this occasion as to	 thevexed  question	 whether restriction, as con.  templated  inArts. 19(6) and 304(b), may extend to total prohibition	 andthis is so because we cannot persuade ourselves to hold thatArt.   19(1)(g)	 or  Art.  301	comprises   all	  activitiesundertaken  with  a  view to profit as	"trade"	 within	 themeaning	 of those Articles.  Nor is it necessary for  us  onthis occasion to consider (1) (1939) 62 C.L.R. 457.928whether a company is a citizen within the meaning of Art' 19and indeed the point has not been argued before us.The  last  point urged by the petitioners is  that  assumingthat  the  impugned Act deals only with	 gambling  and	thatgambling is not "trade" or "business" or "commerce" and	 is,therefore,   not   entitled  to	 the   protection   of	 ourConstitution, the prize competitions run by them are in factnot  of	 a gambling nature.  The trial court  accepted	thiscontention  while the Court of Appeal rejected it.  We	haveexamined the scheme and the rules and the official solutionsand the explanations in support thereof and we have come  tothe  conclusion that the competition at present run  by	 thepetitioners  under the name of R.M.D.C. Crosswords are of  agambling  nature.  Our view so closely accords with that  ofthe  Court of Appeal that we find it unnecessary to go	intothe details of the scheme.  To start with, we find that	 theBoard of Adjudicators pick up nine of the clues and  -selectonly  those competitors whose answers correspond  with	'theofficial solution of those nine clues.	Those nine clues maybe  from the top, may be from the bottom or may be  selectedat  random.  It is said that they-are like  nine  compulsoryquestions  in  a  school examination but then  in  a  schoolexamination,  the  students  are told  which  are  the	ninecompulsory questions and they can take particular care	withregard	to  those; but in this scheme there  is	 no  knowingwhich  nine  will be selected and  those  competitors  whoseanswers	 do  not  accord  with	the  official  solution	 aredebarred  from	being  considered for the  first  prize.   Acompetitor  may have given correct answers to eight  of	 thenine  selected clues and may have given correct	 answers  tothe  remaining eight so that he has sent in sixteen  correctanswers but he will, nevertheless, not be considered for thefirst  prize  because  his  answers  to	 the  nine  selectedquestions did not agree with the official solutions of thosenine  clues.   This is a chance element to start  with.	  Wehave then seen that the competing words out of which one  isto  be selected are in some cases equally apt.	We  are	 notsatisfied that the word selected by the Board is the929more  apt  word in many. cases.	 The reasons given  by	themappear	to  us	to  be	laboured  and  artificial  and	evenarbitrary in some cases.  On the whole, we have come to	 theconclusion  that  the  Court  of Appeal	 was  right  in	 itsconclusion that in point of fact the prize competitions	 runby  the	 petitioners  partake  of  a  gambling	nature	and,therefore, fall within the definition and are to be governedby the regulatory and taxing provisions of the Act. For  the  reasons  stated  above,  we	have  come  to	 theconclusion  that the impugned law is a law with	 respect  tobetting and gambling under Entry 34 and the impugned  taxingsection is a law with respect to tax on betting and gamblingunder  Entry  62  and that- it was  within  the	 legislativecompetence  of	the State Legislature to  have	enacted	 it.There  is sufficient territorial nexus to entitle the  StateLegislature  to	 collect the tax from  the  petitioners	 whocarry  on  the prize competitions through the  medium  of  anewspaper printed and published outside the State of Bombay.The  prize  competitions being of a  gambling  nature,	theycannot	be  regarded as trade or commerce and  as  such	 thepetitioners  cannot claim any fundamental right	 under	Art.19(1)(g)  in  respect  of such competitions,  nor  are	theyentitled  to  the  protection  of  Art.	 301.	The  result,therefore, is that this appeal must be allowed and the orderof the lower court set aside and the petition dismissed	 andwe do so with costs throughout.				Appeal allowed.930