PETITIONER:KANHAIYALAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:Dr. D. R. BANAJI AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:31/03/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERSUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  725		  1959 SCR  333ACT:       Revenue	Sale--Property in Possession of Receiver  appointed       by  Court-Absence  of  leave of	Court  for  sale-Notice	 to       Receiver	 not given--Whether sale illegal---Whether suit	 to       set  aside  sale by civil court	barred-Berar  Land  Revenue       Code, 1928, ss. 155, 156, 157, 192.HEADNOTE:The appellant was the auction-purchaser of the property at arevenue	 sale  held under the provisions of the	 Berar	LandRevenue	 Code, 1928, for recovery of land revenue due.	 Theproperty  at the time of the attachment and sale was in	 thepossession of a Receiver appointed under Or. 40, R. i of theCode of Civil Procedure by the Bombay High Court.  Notice tothe  Receiver, however, was not given of the attachment	 andsale  of the property, nor was any leave of the Court  takenfor  the sale.	In a suit instituted by the Receiver  for  adeclaration that the sale was a nullity or, at any rate, wasillegal	 and liable to be set aside,  the  auction-purchasercontended that the sale without notice to334the Receiver or without impleading him was not void but onlyvoidable and that, in any event, the suit was barred by	 theprovisions  of	ss.  I57 and 192 of the Berar  Land  RevenueCode, 1928:Held,  (i) that the sale was illegal in the absence  of	 theleave of the Court and the necessary notice to the Receiver;(2)  that  the suit was not barred by any of the  provisionsof the Code.Sub-section  (1)  of  s.  I57 of the  Code  which  bars	 theinstitution  of a suit to set aside a sale is confined	onlyto  claims  on	the ground of  irregularity  or	 mistake  inpublishing  or conducting the sale as referred to in s.	 56,and  suits based on other grounds, including those  referredto  in sub-s. (2) Of S. 157, are not within the	 prohibitionof sub-s. (1).Section 192 of the Code is not applicable as the suit is notone  simpliciter to set aside the sale held by	the  revenueauthorities,  but  one for a declaration  and  consequentialrelief	on the grounds taken by the Receiver not covered  bythe  specific provisions of the Code for setting  aside	 thesale which the several authorities under the Code have	beenempowered  to  determine, decide or dispose  of	 within	 themeaning of s. 192(I).JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 128 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 25,  1951,of  the	 Nagpur High Court in L. P. Appeal No. 10  of  1945,arising out of the judgment and decree dated March 29, 1945,of  the	 said High Court in Second Appeal No. 453  of  1941,against	 judgment  and decree dated April 5,  1941,  of	 theAddl.	District Judge, Yeotmal in Civil Appeal No. 47-A  of1940 arising out of the judgment and decree dated  September14,  1940, of the Addl.	 Sub-Judge, First Class, Yeotmal  inCivil Suit No. 72-A of 1940.Radhey Lal, for the appellant.P.   N.	 Bhagwati,  J.	B.  Dadachanji,	 S.  N.	 Andley	 andRameshwar Nath, for respondent No. 1.R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 2.1958.	March 31.  The following Judgment of the  Court	 wasdelivered bySINHA J.-The main question in controversy in this appeal  ona  certificate	of  fitness granted by	the  High  Court  ofJudicature at Nagpur (as it then was), is335whether the provisions of the Berar Land Revenue Code,	1928(which will hereinafter be referred to as the Code), bar thesuit out of which this appeal arises.In  order  to appreciate the points in controversy  in	thisappeal,	 it is necessary to state the following	 facts:	 OneBhagchand Jairamdas was the occupant of a plot, situated  inthe  District  town of Yeotmal in what was then	 called	 theProvince of Central Provinces and Berar, measuring  1,91,664square	feet in area, on which stood a ginning	factory	 andits appurtenant buildings.  Bhagchand aforesaid had executeda  mortgage-bond in favour of one Abubakar.   The  mortgageeaforesaid  instituted  a suit on the original  side  of	 theBombay	High  Court, being Civil Suit No. 1543 of  1934,  toenforce	 the  said mortgage.  A Receiver  was  appointed  onOctober 20, 1936, during the pendency of the suit in respectof  the	 mortgaged properties including the  plot  describedabove.	 The  land and the buildings and the  factory,	havebeen  valued by the courts below at about Rs.  70,000.	 Therevenue	 payable in respect of the plot in question, at	 therate  of  Rs.  129 per year, appears  to  have	remained  inarrears	 for  two years, namely, 1936-37 and  1937-38.	 TheSub-Divisional Officer of Yeotmal, functioning as the DeputyCommissioner  under  the Code, sold at auction the  plot  inquestion,  free of all encumbrances, on December  17,  1937,without impleading or giving notice to the Receiver who	 wasin-charge  of  the estate of Bhagechand, as  aforesaid.	  Atthat  auction,	Kanhaiyalal, the  appellant,  purchased	 theproperty  for  Rs.  270 only.  The sale in  his	 favour	 wasconfirmed on January 26, 1938, bit, it appears that the thenReceiver had sent Rs. 275 by a cheque to the  Sub-DivisionalOfficer	 concerned, in full payment of the arrears  of	landrevenue,  and thus, to have the sale set aside.	 But it	 wasreceived  two  days  after the	confirmation  of  the  sale.-Before the confirmation of the sale, the Receiver had	madean  application on Januaryt 19, 1938, to the  Sub-DivisionalOfficer,  offering to pay the arrears, but it  appears	thatthrough	 some bungling in the office, the attention  of	 theSub-Divisional	Officer	 was not drawn	to  the	 applicationuntil after the336confirmation of the sale.  The Receiver then applied for  a,review	of  the	 order confirming the  sale,  and  the	Sub-Divisional Officer allowed the application and set aside thesale.	 The   Deputy	Commissioner,	Yeotmal,   and	 theCommissioner, Berar, also upheld the order setting aside thesale.  Thereupon, the auction-purchaser, Kanhaiyalal,  movedin  revision  the Financial Commissioner who  was  then	 thehighest Revenue authority under the Code, against the  orderof the Commissioner, and ultimately, the order setting asidethe  sale, was vacated by the Financial Commissioner on	 theground	that there was no application under s.155 or s.	 156of the Code.The  then Receiver, having ultimately failed in	 having	 thesale of the valuable properties by the revenue	authorities,set  aside,  instituted the suit out of	 which	this  appealarises,	 impleading  the Provincial  Government	 of  CentralProvinces  and Berar, as the first  defendant,	Kanhaiyalal,the   auction-purchaser,  as  the  second   defendant,	 andDulichand Bhagchand as the third defendant.  He prayed for adeclaration that the auction-sale held on December 17, 1937,was void, on a number of grounds including the grounds	thatno  notice of demand had been sent to the Receiver  who	 wasin-charge  of  the property; that the  attachment  and	saleproclamation  had  not been effected according to  law,	 andthat  though  the  revenue authorities	were  aware  of	 theappointment  of	 a Receiver of the property, by	 the  BombayHigh  Court, they did not implead the Court Receiver.	Thissuit  was  contested on the preliminary ground that  it	 wasbarred 157 and 192 of the Code.	 That  with the trial  courtand  the  onal	District  Judge,  Yeotmal).  High  Court  ofJudicature at Nagpur, the case was heard by a Single  Judge,Nivogi J. who allowed the appeal by judgment dated March 29,1945.  On a Letters Patent appeal by the  auction-purchaser,Kanhaiyalal,  the  matter  was heard  by  a  Division  Bench(Mangalmurti and Deo JJ.) The Bench affirmed the decision ofthe learned Single337Judge,	and held that the suit was not barred.	Hence,	thisappeal.It  was	 urged	on behalf of  the  appellant,  the  auction-purchaser, who was the second defendant in the suit, and whoonly is interested in having the sale in question, sustainedby  the Court, that the sale without notice to the  Receiveror without impleading him, was not void but only  irregular,and secondly, that in any event, the suit was barred by	 theprovisions  of	ss.  157 and 192 of  the  Code.	  The  firstdefendant,  the State Government, which was  represented  byMr.  Dhebar, prayed that, in any event, there should  be  noorder  for  costs  either  in  favour  of  or  against	 theGovernment.On  behalf  of the plaintiff-respondent, it was	 urged	thatproperty  in the hands of a Receiver is custodia legis,	 andis  exempt from all judicial processes except to the  extentthat the Court which has appointed the Receiver, may  accordpermission to the Receiver or to third parties to  instituteproceedings in respect of the property;, that no  permissionof  the Bombay High Court which had appointed the  Receiver,having	been  taken for the sale of the property,  the	saleheld  without such a permission, is a nullity; that, at	 anyrate,  such  a	sale  was not a	 mere  irregularity  but  anillegality and could be avoided by suit; that there being novalid  attachment  of  the  property  with  notice  to	 theReceiver,  the	attachment itself was illegal, and  on	thatground	also, the sale was void; and lastly, that  the	suitwas not barred by the provisions of the Code, as held by theHigh Court.The facts as set out above, are not in controversy.   Duringthe time that the proceedings culminating in the sale of theproperty,  had	been  pending in  the  Revenue	Courts,	 theReceiver  was  in effective control and	 management  of	 theproperty.  The revenue authorities had been apprised of	 thefact  that the Receiver appointed by the Bombay High  Court,was  in-charge	of the property.  As a matter  of  fact,  anattempt	 had  been made by the revenue authorities,  in	 thefirst  instance,  to approach the Collector  of	 Bombay	 forrealising the43338arrears of land revenue in respect of the plot in  question,but the mistake was that no approach was made to the  BombayHigh Court or even to the Receiver for paying up the arrears-of  the Government demands.  It was certainly the  duty  ofthe Receiver to see to it that all public demands in respectof the properties in his charge, were paid in due time,	 andin. this case, certainly, the arrears in respect of the year1937-38,  which	 fell due in August, 1938,  accrued  in	 histime,  if  not also the arrears in respect of  the  previousyear 1936-37.  If the Receiver had been more vigilant, or ifthe  revenue  authorities  had	made  the  demand  from	 theReceiver in respect of the arrears, they may have been	paidup  in	due  course without the	 necessity  of	putting	 theproperty to sale.So far as the Indian Courts are concerned, it is settled lawthat a sale held without making attachment of the  property,or  without  duly complying with the provisions of  the	 lawrelating  to  attachment of property, is not void  but	onlyvoidable.  Rule 52 of 0. 21 of the Code of Civil  Procedure,requires  that where the property is in the custody  of	 anycourt  or  public  officer, attachment shall be	 made  by  anotice to such court or officer.  But the absence of such  anotice would not render the sale void ab initio, because thejurisdiction  of  the court or the  authority  ordering	 thesale,  does  not  depend upon the issue	 of  the  notice  ofattachment.   It is also settled law that proceedings  takenin  respect  of a property which is in	the  possession	 andmanagement of a Receiver appointed by Court under 0. 40,  r.I of the Code of Civil Procedure, without the leave of	thatCourt,	are illegal in the sense that the  party  proceedingagainst	 the  property	without	 the  leave  of	 the   Courtconcerned,  is	liable to be committed for contempt  of	 theCourt,	and that the proceedings so held, do not affect	 theinterest in the hands of the Receiver who holds the propertyfor  the  benefit  of  the party  who,	ultimately,  may  beadjudged  by  the  Court to be entitled to  the	 same.	 Thelearned counsel for the respondent was not able to bring  toour notice any ruling of any Court in India, holding that  asale held without notice to the Receiver or339without	 the leave of the Court appointing the	Receiver  inrespect of the property, is void ab initio.  In the  instantcase,  we do not think it necessary to go into the  questionraised	by  the learned counsel for the respondents  that  asale  of  a property in the hands of the Court	through	 itsReceiver, without the leave of the Court, is a nullity.	 TheAmerican  Courts appear to have taken the view that  such  asale  is  void.	 In our opinion, it is enough to  point	 outthat the High Court took the view that the sale was voidableand  could be declared illegal in a proper proceeding or  bysuit.	We shall assume for the purposes of this  case	thatsuch a sale is only voidable and not void ab initio.On  the assumption that the sale held in this  case  withoutthe  leave of the Court and without notice to the  Receiver,is  only voidable and can be declared illegal on  that	veryground,	 the  suit had been instituted for  the	 declarationthat the sale by the revenue courts was illegal.  The plaintwas  subsequently amended by adding the relief for  recoveryof  possession,	 because  in  the  meanwhile,  the  auction-purchaser  had	obtained  delivery  of	possession  of	 theproperty through the revenue authorities, some time in 1940.The general rule that property in custodia legis through itsduly  appointed	 Receiver is exempt  from  judicial  processexcept	to the extent that the leave of that court has	beenobtained, is based on a very sound reason of public  policy,namely,	 that  there should be no conflict  of	jurisdictionbetween	 different  Courts.  If a court	 has  exercised	 itspower  to appoint a Receiver of a certain property,  it	 hasdone  so  with	a view to preserving the  property  for	 thebenefit of the rightful owner as judicially determined.	  Ifother  Courts  or  Tribunals  of  co-ordinate  or  exclusivejurisdiction   were   to  permit  proceedings  to   (lo	  onindependently  of the Court which has placed the custody  ofthe  property  in  the hands of the Receiver,  there  was  alikelihood of confusion in the administration of justice anda  possible conflict of jurisdiction.  The Courts  representthe  majesty of law, and naturally, therefore, would not  doanything  to  weaken  the  rule of law,	 or  to	 permit	 anyproceedings340which  may have the effect of putting any party in  jeopardyfor  contempt of court for taking recourse  to	unauthorisedlegal proceedings.  It is on that very sound principle	thatthe rule is based.  Of course, if any Court which is holdingthe  property  in  custodia  legis  through  a	Receiver  orotherwise,  is	moved to grant permission for  taking  legalproceedings   in  respect  of  that  property,	 the   Courtordinarily would grant such permission if considerations  ofjustice require it.  Courts of justice, therefore, would notbe a party to any interference with that sound rule.  On theother hand, all Courts of justice would be only too  anxiousto  see that property in custodia legis is not subjected  touncontrolled attack, while, at the same time, protecting therights of' all persons who may have claims to the property.After making these general observations, we have to  examinethe provisions of the Code, to find out how far that generalrule of law is affected by those provisions.  The Berar LandRevenue	 Code provides that " land revenue assessed oil	 anyland shall be a first charge on that land and on the  crops,rents and profits thereof " (s. 131).  Section 132 makes theoccupant  in  respect of the land in  question	"  primarilyliable	for  the payment of the land revenue ", but  s.	 133provides that in case of default of payment of land  revenueby the person who is 'primarily liable', " the land  revenueincluding  arrears shall be recoverable from any  person  inpossession  of the land." Hence, in this case,	the  revenueauthorities could legally call upon the Receiver to pay	 thearrears of land revenue, and as pointed out above, it  wouldhave been the duty of the Receiver to pay up those  arrears.Under  s.  135,	 the Receiver would be deemed  to  be  a,  Idefaulter'  in	respect of the land  revenue.	Section	 140makes  the  statement of account, certified  by	 the  DeputyCommissioner  or the Tahsildar, conclusive evidence  of	 theexistence of the arrears and of the person shown therein  asthe defaulter, for the purposes of the Chapter in which	 thesection	 finds	a place, namely, Chapter XII, headed  as,  "Realization of Land Revenue ". One of the modes laid down in  341s.141  (e)  of	the Code for the recovery  of  arrears	landrevenue,  is " attachment and sale of the, holding on  whichthe  arrear is due." If a sale is held under the  provisionsof s. 141 (c), s. 149 (2) provides that such a sale "  shalltransfer  the holding free of all encur brances	 imposed  onit..................... Thus, the appellant, if the sale  inhis  favour was a valid on acquired the property said to  beworth  Rs. 70,000, from from all encumbrances including	 themortgage-money	due on the property, and for which the	suitin the Bombay High Court had been instituted, even though hepaid Rs. 270 only for it.The  principal	question for determination  in	the  appeal,therefore, is whether, in view of the special provisions  ofthe Land Revenue Code, the presesuit could be entertained bythe civil court.  It beyond question that the Code lays downa special machinery for the realization of Government  revenwhich  has  been  declared  as	the  paramount	charge	 theproperty.   It	lays  down  a  summary	procedure  for	 therealization  of	 public	 revenue, and  all  question  comingwithin the purview of the Code, must I determined  accordingto  the procedure laid down that Code.	Hence, in so far  asthe  Code has laid do," specific rules of  procedure,  thoserules  and no other must apply in the determination  of	 allcontroversies  coming  strictly	 within	 the  terms  of	 thestatute One thing is absolutely clear, namely that the	Codedoes not lay down any specific rules in respect of pro partywhich	has  been  placed  in  custodia	 legis.	  The	Codecontemplates  regular payment of Government revenue  by	 theowner, possessor or the occupant, the property in respect ofwhich  Government revenue is payable.  It also takes  noticeof devolution of interest by transfer or succession, but  itdoes notice contemplate the inter-position of a Receiver  inrespect of the property subject to the payment of Governmentrevenue.   This	 aspect	 of  the  matter  becomes  importantbecause the only point for determination 'in, the appeal, iswhether	 the auction-sale held under the Code,	without	 theleave  of  the	Court  or without  notice  to  the  Receiverappointed by the Court, should affair342Le interest which the Bombay High Court had, by pointing theReceiver,  sought  to protect, if the sale   favour  of	 theappellant, stands.  The mortgagee's security for the paymentof the mortgage-debt, in the vent of the auction-sale  beingsustained,  is to that -tent adversely affected without	 hishaving any voice the matter.  Perhaps, if the Receiver	werenot there, the mortgagee may have been more vigilant and  byhave  taken  timely steps to pay the  Government  demand  inrespect	 of  the  property if only  for	 conserving  it	 forsatisfying  his	 own  dues on the  mortgage.   It  has	beenstrenuously  argued  on	 behalf of the	appellant  that	 thepresent	 suit cannot be maintained in few of the  provisionsof the Code, particularly,  157 and 192 which we now proceedto examine. action 157 is in these terms:"  157.	 (1)  If no application under section  156  is	madewithin	the time allowed therefor, all claims on the  groundof  irregularity or mistake shall be barred. (2) Nothing  insub-section  (1) shall bar the institution of a suit in	 thecivil  court to set aside a sale on the ground of  fraud  oroil  the  ground that the arrear for which the	property  issold   was  not	 due."	his  section  makes   reference	  toproceedings   under   the  previous.   156.    Section	 156contemplates an application for setting aside the sale "  onthe  ground  of	 some material irregularity  or	 mistake  inpublishing or conducting it ", at the instance of a person "whose interests are affected by the sale ". Assuming that inthe  instant case, the Receiver is a person  whose  interestcan be said to have been affected by the sale, the ground onwhich he could have moved the Revenue athorities for settingaside  the  sale, was limited to  material  irregularity  ormistake in publishing or Inducting the sale.  This provisionproceeds  on the assumption that the necessary parties	havebeen apprised of the proceedings relating to the realizationGovernment  revenue.  It assumes that the  proceedings	havebeen  properly taken, but there may have been some  materialirregularity  or mistake at a later age of the	proceedings,namely,	 in publishing or enducting the sale.  It  is  clearthat the ground on343which the present suit is based, would not be covered by thecrucial	 words quoted above, on which alone s. 156 could  beavailed	 of  " Publishing " the sale has reference  to	thatpart   of  the	proceedings  which  relates  to	  the	saleproclamation, and conducting' the sale has reference to actsor  omissions,	at a still later stage, of some	 officer  orpublic authority who is entrusted with holding the sale.  Itis  clear, therefore, that the provisions of s. 156 are	 outof  the way of the plaintiff in this suit.  So also are	 theprovisions  of	s. 155 which relate to	an  application	 forsetting	 aside a sale on deposit of arrears within  30	daysfrom the date of the sale.  An application under s. 155	 canonly  be  made by a person "either owning such	property  orholding	 an interest therein by virtue of a  title  acquiredbefore such sale ". A Receiver appointed under 0. 40 of	 theCode  of Civil Procedure, unlike a Receiver appointed  underthe  Insolvency Act, does not own the property or  hold	 anyinterest therein by virtue of a title.	He is only the agentof  the	 court for the safe custody and	 management  of	 theproperty   during   the	 time  that  the   court   exercisesjurisdiction over the litigation in respect of the property.Section	 157(1) of the Code, 'which positively bars a  suit,is in express terms, confined to " all claims oil the groundof  irregularity  or mistake ". It does	 not  cover  groundsother  than those-for example, if a sale is attacked on	 theground	that the owner of the property was dead at the	dateof the sale, or that there had been some fraud in connectionwith the sale proceedings, or that he had been kept out	 of'his  remedy under the Code by some fraudulent act,  or	thatthere  was really no arrear due in respect of  the  propertysold,  or  such allied grounds-suits based on  grounds	likethese,	would  not be within the prohibition of	 s.  157(1).Section 157(2) specifically saves certain suits of the	kindreferred to therein, but it does not necessarily follow thatsuits not directly within the terms of sub-s. (2) of s. 157,are covered by the provisions of the positive bar laid	downby  s.	157(1).	  There may be a tertium  quid	between	 thegrounds	 covered  by s. 157(1) and s. 157(2).  It  is  clearthat344the  present suit is not covered either by the terms  of  s.157(1)	or  those of s. 157(2).	 As already  indicated,	 theposition emerging in the present controversy, is not coveredby the express provisions of s. 157.But it has been argued on behalf of the appellant that	eventhough	the  provisions of s. 157 do not  cover	 the  groundraised in the present suit, s. 192(1) of the Code, bars	 thesuit.  Section 192(1) is in these terms:"  192. (1) Except as otherwise provided in this Law, or  inany  other enactment for the time being in force,  no  civilcourt  shall  entertain any suit instituted  or	 applicationmade to obtain a decision or order on any matter which,	 theProvincial  Government or any Revenue Officer . is, by	thisLaw,  empowered to determine, decide or dispose of;  and  inparticular  and without prejudice to the generality of	thisprovision,  no civil court shall exercise jurisdiction	overany of the following matters:-"It is not necessary to set out the clauses (a) to (p)  undersub-s.	(1)  of s. 192, because none of those  clauses,	 hasbeen claimed clearly to cover the present suit.Learned	 counsel  for the appellant contended  that  settingaside a sale has been specifically provided for by the Code,which  the  several  authorities under the  Code  have	beenempowered  to  determine, decide or dispose of,	 within	 themeaning	 of the section.  There is no doubt that the  matterof  the	 setting aside of a sale by payment of	the  arrearsunder  s. 155, and on the specific grounds under s. 156,  asdiscussed above, has been provided for in the Code, but,  asalready	 observed, the suit does not raise any ground  whichis  covered  by	 the specific provisions  of  the  Code	 forsetting aside a sale.  Strictly speaking, this is a suit fora declaration that the sale held by the revenue courts, doesnot  affect  the interests which are in the custody  of	 theCourt  through its Receiver, and for recovery of  possessionas  against  the auction-purchaser who is alleged to  be  inwrongful  possession-of	 the  property	which  should	havecontinued   in	possession  of	the  Receiver,	 under	 thedirections of the Bombay High Court.  In short, this is	 nota suit simpliciter to345set  aside  the sale held by the revenue authorities  but  asuit for a declaration and a consequential relief A suit forsuch a declaration on the grounds taken by the Receiver	 andfor   possession,  is  not  a  matter,	which  the   severalauthorities   under  the  Code,	 have  been   empowered	  todetermine, decide or dispose of.But the learned counsel for the appellant further  contendedthat  s. 192 takes in its sweep all the relevant  provisionsof the Code bearing on the rights of the Receiver to have  asale set aside.	 Undoubtedly, it is so, but, as pointed	 outabove,	the  Receiver  could not have  brought	the  presentcontroversy  within the terms of any one of those  sections.In  this  connection,  reliance	 was-  also  placed  on	 theprovisions  of	ss.  32, 38 and 159 of	the  Code.   In	 ouropinion,  those	 sections  have no bearing  on	the  presentcontroversy.   Section 32 deals with appeals  and  appellateauthorities, and lays down the hierarchy of officers to dealwith  an appeal.  Section 38 prescribes the  authorities  todeal with revisional matters, and s. 159 conserves the powerof  the Deputy Commissioner to pass orders suo moto that  isto  say, where no application has been made under s. 155  ors.  156, or even beyond the period of thirty days, which  isthe  prescribed period for making applications	under  thosesections.   Thus, if the leave of the Bombay High Court	 hadbeen  taken to initiate proceedings under the Code, for	 therealization  of Government revenue, or if the  Receiver	 hadbeen  served with the notice of demand, it would  have	beenhis  bounden duty to pay up the arrears of land revenue	 andto  continue  -paying Government demands in respect  of	 theProperty  in  his charge, in order to conserve	it  for	 thebenefit	 of the parties which were before the Court  in	 themortgage  suit.	 If such a step had been taken, and  if	 theReceiver,  in spite of notice, had allowed the	auction-saleto  be held for non-payment of Government demands, the	salewould  have been valid and subject only to such	 proceedingsas  are contemplated under ss. 155 and 156 of the Code.	  Inthat   case,   there  would  have  been	  no   conflict	  ofjurisdiction, and therefore, no question 44346of infringing the sound principle discussed above.  But	 theabsence	 of  the  leave of the Court and  of  the  necessarynotice	to the Receiver, makes all the difference between  avalid  and an illegal sale.  The High Court has also  reliedupon  the  well-known rule of natural  justice-audi  alterampartem-as another reason for holding the sale to be illegal.It  is	not  necessary	for the purposes  of  this  case  topronounce upon the difficult question of how far a principleof natural justice can override the specific provisions of astatute.For the reasons given above, we agree with the High Court inits conclusion that the auction-sale impugned in this  case,was  illegal,  and  that  the suit was	not  barred  by	 theprovisions  of	the  Code.   The  appeal  is,	accordingly,dismissed with costs to the Receiver who alone has contestedthe appeal.			    Appeal dismissed.