PETITIONER:VISHWANATH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:03/09/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1960 AIR   67		  1960 SCR  (1) 646ACT:       Criminal	 Trial-Right  of Private  defence-When	extends	 to       causing death-Whether mere abduction which is not Punishable       gives right of private defence to cause death of	 abductor--       Husband trying to take away wife forcibly from her  father's       house-Wife's  brother  stabbing husband and  killing  him-If       protected  by  right of private defence-Indian  Penal  Code,       1860 (XLV of 1860), ss. 97, 99 and 100.HEADNOTE:The  relations between one G and his wife were strained	 andshe  went to live with her father B and her brother  V,	 theappellant.   G, with three others, went to the quarter of  Band he went inside and came out dragging his reluctant	wifebehind	him.   She  caught hold of the door  and  G  startedpulling	 her.  At this the appellant shouted to	 his  fatherthat G was adamant and thereupon B replied that he should bebeaten.	 The appellant took out a knife from his pocket	 andstabbed G once.	 The knife penetrated the heart of G and  hedied.  B and the appellant were647tried for the murder of G; B was acquitted and the appellantwas  convicted	under S. 304 Part II Indian Penal  Code	 andsentenced   to	three  years  rigorous	imprisonment.	 Theappellant  contended  that  he had acted  in  the  right  ofprivate defence of person under s. 100 fifthly Indian  PenalCode,  which  extended	to the causing of  death  as  G	 hadassaulted his wife with the intention of abducting her.	 Therespondent  urged that s. 100 fifthly applied only when	 theabduction  was of such a nature as was punishable under	 thePenal Code.Held, that the appellant had the right of private defence ofthe  body  of his sister which extended to  the	 causing  ofdeath of G. The extended right under s. 100 arose when therewas the offence of assault of one of the types mentioned  inthe six clauses of that section.  It was not necessary	thatthe  intention	with which the assault	was  committed	mustalways bean offence itself.  The word " abduction " used. inthe fifth clause of s. 100 meant nothing more than what	 wasdefined	 as  "	abduction  "  in s.  362,  and	it  was	 notnecessary,  to get the protection of this clause,  that	 theabduction must be of a type punishable under the Penal Code.Further, the appellant had not inflicted more harm than	 wasnecessary and was not guilty of any offence.Emperor v. Ram Saiya, I.L.R. 1948 All. i65, overruled.jagat  Singh v. King-Emperor, A.I.R. 1923 Lah.	155,  DarogaLohar v. Emperor, A.I.R. 1930 Pat. 347, Sakha v. The  State,I.L.R 195o Nag. 508 and Dayaram Laxman v. State, A.I.R	I953Madhya Bharat 52, referred to.JUDGMENT:       CRIMINAL	 APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 32	 of       1958.       Appeal  by special leave from the judgment and  order  dated       April  25,  1957, of the Allahabad High	Court  in  Criminal       Appeal  No.  992 of 1954, arising out of	 the  judgment	and       order  dated  January 25, 1954, of the  Additional  Sessions       Judge, Gorakhpur in Sessions Trial No. 71 of 1953.       S.   P. Sinha and S. D. Sekhri, for the appellant.       G.   C.	Mathur and C. P. Lal (for G. N. Dikshit),  for	the       respondent.       1959.  September 3. The Judgment of the Court was  delivered       by       WANCHOO	J.-This is an appeal by special leave  against	the       judgment	 of the Allahabad High Court in a criminal  matter.       The  facts of the case, as found by the High Court,  are	 no       longer in dispute and the       648       question	 that  is  raised in this  appeal  is  whether	the       appellant  had  exceeded	 the right of  private	defence	 of       person.	 The  relevant facts for our  purposes	are  these.       Gopal  deceased was married to the sister of the	 appellant.       The appellant and his father Badri were living in a  railway       quarter	at  Gorakhpur.	Gopal's sister was married  to	one       Banarsi,	 who  was also living in  another  railway  quarter       nearby.	 Gopal	had  been living for  some  time  with	his       father-in-law.  They did not, however, pull on well together       and Gopal shifted to the house of Banarsi.  Badri  persuaded       Gopal  to come back to his house but the relations  remained       strained	 and eventually Gopal shifted again to the  quarter       of Banarsi about 15 days before the present occurrence which       took  place on June 11, 1953, at about 10 p.m. Gopal's  wife       had  continued to live with her father as she was  unwilling       to  go  with  Gopal.   Her  father  Badri  and  her  brother       Vishwanath  appellant sided with her and refused to let	her       go  with	 Gopal.	  Gopal also suspected that  she  had  been       carrying on with one Moti who used to visit Badri's quarter.       Consequently, Gopal was keen to take away his wife, the more       so  as he had got a job in the local department some  months       before and wanted to lead an independent life.  On June	11,       there was some quarrel between the appellant and Gopal about       the  girl;  but	nothing	 untoward  happened  then  and	the       appellant  went back to his quarter and Gopal went  away	 to       Bansari's  quarter.  Gopal asked Banarsi's sons to help	him       in  bringing back his wife.  Banarsi also arrived  and  then       all  four of them went to Badri's quarter to bring back	the       girl.  On reaching the place, Banarsi and his two sons stood       outside	while Gopal went in.  In the meantime,	Badri  came       out  and	 was asked by Banarsi to let the girl go  with	her       husband.	  Badri was not agreeable to it and  asked  Banarsi       not to interfere in other people's affairs.  While Badri and       Banarsi were talking, Gopal came out of the quarter dragging       his reluctant wife behind him.  The girl caught hold of	the       door  as she was being taken out and a  tug-of-war  followed       between	her  and Gopal. -The appellant was also	 there	and       shouted to his father       649       that  Gopal was adamant.	 Badri, thereupon replied  that	 if       Gopal was adamant he should be beaten (tomaro).	On this the       appellant took out a knife from his pocket and stabbed Gopal       once.   The knife penetrated into the heart and	Gopal  fell       down  senseless.	  Steps	 were taken  to	 revive	 Gopal	but       without success.	 Thereupon, Gopal was taken to the hospital       by Badri and the appellant and Banarsi and his sons and some       others,	but  Gopal  died  by  the  time	 they  reached	the       hospital.       On these facts the Sessions Judge was of opinion that  Badri       who  had merely asked the appellant to beat Gopal could	not       have realised that the appellant would take out a knife from       his pocket and stab Gopal.  Badri was, therefore,  acquitted       of abetment.  The Sessions Judge was further of opinion that       the  appellant had the right of private defence	of  person,       and that this right extended even to the causing of death as       it  arose on account of an assault on his sister	 which	was       with  intent to abduct her.  He was further of opinion  that       more  harm than the circumstances of the case  required	was       not caused; and therefore the appellant was also acquitted.       The  State  then	 appealed to the  High	Court  against	the       acquittal  of  both  accused.  The  High	 Court	upheld	the       acquittal  of Badri.  The acquittal of - the  appellant	was       set aside on the ground that the case was not covered by the       fifth clause of s. 100 and the right of -private defence	 of       person in this case did not extend to the voluntary  causing       of  death  to the assailant and therefore it  was  exceeded.       The  High Court relied on an earlier decision of its own	 in       Emperor	v.  Ram	 Saiya (1).  The  appellant  was  therefore       convicted  under	 s.  304, Part 11, of the  Penal  code	and       sentenced to three years' rigorous imprisonment.	 He applied       for a certificate to enable him to appeal to this Court	but       this  was refused.  Thereupon he applied to this	 Court	for       special leave which was granted; and that is how the  matter       has come up before us.       The main question therefore that falls for consideration	 in       this appeal is whether the decision in Ram       (1)  I.L.R. 1948 All. 165.       650       Saiya's	case  (1) is correct.  It appears that	four  other       high  Courts  have taken a view which is different  on  that       taken  in Ram Saiya's case (1-), namely Jagat singh v.  King       Emperor	(2) Daroga Lokar v. Emperor Lohar v. The State	(4)       and Dayaram Laxman v. State 'here is, however, no discussion       of  the	point in these our cases and we need not  refer	 to       them further. the view taken in Ram Saiya's case (1) is that       the lord " abducting " used in the fifth clause of s. 100 of       the  Penal  Code refers to such abducting as is	an  offence       under  that Code and not merely to the act of  abduction	 as       defined in s. 362 thereof.  Mere abduction is not an offence       and,  therefore,	 cannot give rise of any right	of  private       defence	and the extended right of private defence given	 by       s.  100	only  arises if the  offence  which  occasions	the       exercise of the right is of the Of the kinds mentioned in s.       100.       Section	97  gives the right of private	defence	 of  person       against	any offence affecting the human body.	Section	 99       lays  down  that	 the right of private  defence	a  no  case       extends to the inflicting of more harm than it is  necessary       to  inflict  for the purpose of defence.	 Section  100  with       which we are concerned is in these terms:-       "  The right of private defence of the body  extends,  under       the restrictions mentioned in the last preceding section, to       the  voluntary causing of death or of any other harm to	the       assailant,  if the offence which occasions the  exercise	 of       the  right  be  of  any	of  the	 descriptions	hereinafter       enumerated, namely-       "  First-Such  an  assault  as  may  reasonably	cause	the       apprehension that death will otherwise be the consequence of       such assault;       Secondly-Such  an  assault  as  may  reasonably	cause	the       apprehension  that  grievous  hurt  will	 otherwise  be	the       consequence of such assault;       Thirdly-An assault with the intention of committing rape ;       (1) I.L.R. 1948 All. 165.   (3) A.I. R. 1930 Pat. 347 (2).       (2) A.I.R. 1923 Lab.  155 (1).  (4) 1 L.R. 1950 Nag 508.       (5)  A 1. R. 1953 Madhya Bharat 182.       651       Fourthly-An   assault  with  the	 intention  of	 gratifying       unnatural lust;       Fifthly-An  assault  with the intention	of  kidnapping	or.       abducting;       Sixthly-An   assault  with  the	intention   of	 wrongfully       confining a person under circumstances which may	 reasonably       cause  him  to  apprehend that he will  be  unable  to  have       recourse to the public authorities for his release."       The right of private defence of person only arises if  there       is an offence affecting the human body.	Offences  affecting       the human body are to be found in Ch.  XVI from s. 299 to s.       377 of the Penal Code and include offences in the nature	 of       use of criminal force and assault.  Abduction is also in Ch.       XVI  and	 is  defined  in s.  362.   Abduction  takes  place       whenever a person by force compels or by any deceitful means       induces another person to go from any place.  But  abduction       pure  and  simple is not an offence under  the  Penal  Code.       Only  abduction	with  certain intent is	 punishable  as	 an       offence.	  If the intention is that the person abducted	may       be  murdered  or so disposed of as to be put  in	 danger	 of       being  murdered,	 s. 364 applies.  If the  intention  is	 to       cause  secret and wrongful confinement, s. 365 applies.	 If       the abducted person is a woman and the intention is that she       may  be compelled or is likely to be compelled to marry	any       person  against	her  will or may be forced  or	seduced	 to       illicit intercourse or is likely to be so forced or seduced,       s. 366 applies.	If the intention is to cause grievous  hurt       or so dispose of the person abducted as to put him in danger       of  being  subjected  to grievous hurt, or  slavery  or	the       unnatural  lust	of  any person, s.  367	 applies.   If	the       abducted	 person	 is a child under the age of  ten  and	the       intention  is to take dishonestly any movable property  from       its  person,  s.	 369 applies.  It is said  that	 unless	 an       offence	under  one  of	these  sections	 is  likely  to	 be       committed,   the	 fifth	clause	of  s.	100  can  have	 no       application.   On a plain reading, however, of  that  clause       there  does not seem to be any reason for holding  that	the       word " abducting " used there means anything more than  what       is defined as " abduction " in s. 362.       652       It  is  true  that the right of private	defence	 of  person       arises  only  if	 an  -offence against  the  human  body	 is       committed.   Section 100 gives an extended right of  private       defence	of  person  in	cases  where.  the  offence   which       occasions  the  exercise	 of  the right is  of  any  of	the       descriptions enumerated therein.	 Each of the six clauses of       s. 100 talks of an assault and assault is an offence against       the human body; (see s. 352).  So before the extended  right       under  s. 100 arises there has to be the offence of  assault       and this assault has to be of one of the six types mentioned       in the six clauses of the section.  The view in Ram  Saiya's       case  (1) seems to overlook that in each of the six  clauses       enumerated in s. 100, there is an offence against the  human       body,  namely,  assault.	 So the right  of  private  defence       arises  against that offence, and what s. 100 lays  down	 is       that if the assault is of an aggravated nature, as enumerat-       ed  in  that section, the right of private  defence  extends       even to the causing of death.  The fact that when describing       the nature of the assault some of the clauses in s. 100	use       words  which  are  themselves offences, as  for	example,  "       grievous	 hurt  ", " rape ", " kidnapping  ",  "	 wrongfully       confining ", does not mean that the intention with which the       assault	is committed must always be an offence	in  itself.       In  some	 other	clauses, the words  used  to  indicate	the       intention  do not themselves amount to an offence under	the       Penal  Code.   For example, the first clause says  that	the       assault	 must	be  such  as  may  reasonably	cause	the       apprehension of death.  Now death is not an offence anywhere       in  the Penal Code.  Therefore, when the word " abducting  "       is used in the fifth clause, that word by itself reed not be       an offence in order that clause may be taken advantage of by       or  on  behalf of a person who is assaulted with	 intent	 to       abduct.	 All that the clause requires is that there  should       be an assault which is an offence against the human body and       that assault should be with the intention of abducting,	and       whenever	 these	elements  are present the  clause  will	 be       applicable.       Further	the  definition of " abduction " is in	two  parts,       namely, (i) abduction where a person is compelled,       (1)  I.L.R. 1948 All. 165.       653       by  force  to go from any place and (ii) abduction  where  a       person  is  induced by any deceitful means to  go  from	any       place.	Now  the fifth clause of s. 100	 contemplates  only       that kind of abduction in which force is used and where	the       assault	is  with the intention of abducting, the  right	 of       private	defence	 that  arises by  reason  of  such  assault       extends	even up to the causing of death.  It would  in	our       opinion	be not right to expect from a person who  is  being       abducted by force to pause and consider whether the abductor       has further intention as provided in one of the sections	 of       the Penal Code quoted above, before he takes steps to defend       himself,	 even to the extent of causing death of the  person       abducting.   The framers of the Code knew that abduction	 by       itself  was  not an offence unless there	 was  some  further       intention  coupled with it.  Even so in the fifth clause	 of       s.  100	the word " abducting " has been	 used  without	any       further qualification to the effect that the abducting  must       be  of  the  kind  mentioned in	s.  364	 onwards.   We	are       therefore of opinion that the view taken in Ram Saiya's case       (1)  is not correct and the fifth clause must be given  full       effect according to its plain meaning.  Therefore, when	the       appellant's  sister was being abducted, even though  by	her       husband,	 and there was an assault on her and she was  being       compelled  by force to go away from her father's place,	the       appellant  would	 have the right of private defence  of	the       body of his sister against an assault with the intention	 of       abducting  her by force and that right would extend  to	the       causing of death.       The  next question is whether the appellant was	within	the       restrictions  prescribed	 by s. 99.  It was urged  that	the       right of private defence never extends to the inflicting	 of       more  harm  than	 what  is  necessary  for  the	purpose	 of       defending and that in this case the appellant inflicted more       harm than was necessary.	 We are of opinion that this is not       so.  The appellant gave only one blow with a knife which	 he       happened to have in his pocket.	It is unfortunate that	the       blow  landed right into the heart and therefore Gopal  died.       But considering that the appellant had given       (1)  I.L.R. 1948 All. 165.       83       654       only one below with an ordinary knife which, if it had  been       a  little  this way or that, could not have been	 fatal,	 it       cannot  be  said	 that  he  inflicted  more  harm  than	was       necessary  for the purpose of defence.  As has been  pointed       out in Amjad Khan v. The State (1), " these things cannot be       weighed in too fine a set of scales or in golden scale"'.       We, therefore, allow the appeal and hold that the  appellant       had  the right of private defence of person under the  fifth       clause  of  s.  100 and did not cause  more  harm  than	was       necessary and acquit him.					Appeal allowed.