PETITIONER:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:M/S.  AMRITLAL BHOGILAL & CO.DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/04/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  868		  1959 SCR  713ACT:       Income Tax-Registration and assessment of firm by Income Tax       Officer-Appeal	against	  orders  of   assesment-Power	 of       Appellate  Assistant Commissioner in appeal-Cancellation	 of       order  of  registration	by Commissioner of  income  Tax	 in       revision Pending such appeal-Validity-Indian Income-tax Act,       1922 (XI of 1922), Ss. 26A, 31 and 33B(1).       714HEADNOTE:The  respondent	 firm  was assessed to	income-tax  for	 theassessment  years  1947-48,  1948-49 and  1949-50  under  S.23(3).	 The Income-tax Officer renewed the registration  ofthe  firm under S. 26A of the Income-tax Act and  passed  anorder  under S. 23(6) allocating the shares of	the  variouspartners.   The	 respondent preferred  appeals	against	 theorders	 of   assessment   to	the   Appellate	   AssistantCommissioner.  Oil November 4, 1950, the Appellate AssistantCommissioner  partly accepted the appeals in respect of	 theassessment  years  1947-48  and 1948-49 but  the  appeal  inrespect	 of the assessment year 1949-50 was  still  pending.Meanwhile  after issuing notice to the parties	and  hearingthem  the  Commissioner, acting under s. 33B(1),  passed  anorder  on June 5, 1952, cancelling the registration  grantedunder  S. 26A on the ground that one of the partners of	 thefirm  was  a minor, and directed the Income-tax	 Officer  tomake fresh assessments for the three years.  The  respondentpreferred  appeals  to	the Appellate  Tribunal	 which	wereallowed.   On the application of the appellant the  Tribunalreferred, under s. 66(1) of the Act, three questions to	 theHigh  Court  of Bombay.	 In regard to the  assessment  years1947-48	 and 1948-49 the High Court held that the orders  ofthe  Income-tax Officer granting registration had merged  inthe appellate orders of the Assistant Appellate Commissionerand the revisional power of the Commissioner under S. 33B(1)could  not be exercised in respect of them.  With regard  tothe  renewal of registration for the year 1949-50  the	HighCourt  held  that the Commissioner could  not  exercise	 hisrevisional power as the propriety of this order was open  toconsideration by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner in therespondent's  appeal  pending  before  him.   The  appellantobtained special leave and appealed:Held,  that  the  Commissioner had the	authority  under  s.33B(1)	to set aside the orders of registration made by	 theIncome-tax  Officer.   An order of  the	 Income-tax  Officergranting   registration	 was  not  appealable	before	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner.  Such an order  could  becancelled by the Commissioner in exercise of his  revisionalpowers	under s. 33B(1) ; but it could not be  cancelled  bythe Appellate Assistant Commissioner even in the exercise ofhis appellate jurisdiction when dealing with an appeal by anassessee.  The theory that the order of a tribunal merges inthe  order of the appellate authority did not apply  to	 theorder of registration passed by the Incometax Officer.Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay North v. Tejaji  FarasramKharawala, [1953] 23 I.T.R. 412, referred to.Durgabati  and Narmadabala Gupta v. Commissioner of  Income-tax, [1956] 30 I.T.R. 101, disapproved.But  the  Commissioner	has no power  while  exercising	 hisrevisional  jurisdiction under S. 33B(1) of the Act  to	 setaside  the  assessment	orders.	 The  Commissioner,  in	 thepresent case, did715not  really  intend to set aside the assessment	 orders	 butmerely	to  direct the Income-tax Officer to  make  suitableconsequential  amendments  in  regard to  the  machinery  orprocedure.  to be adopted to recover the tax payable by	 therespondent.  The registration or non-registration of a	firmdoes not at all affect the computation of taxable income; itmerely governs the procedure to be adopted in recovering thetax found due.Shapurji  Pallonji  v. Commissioner of	Income-tax,  Bombay,[1945] 13 I.T.R. 113, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 128 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  5, 1953, of the Bombay High Court in I. T. R. No.  40of 1952.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,K.   N.	 Rajagopala  Sastri  and  R.  H.  Dhebar,  for	 theappellant.B. R. L. Aiyangar, for the respondent.1958.  April 28.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This is an appeal by the Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  Bombay, by special leave and it raises a  shortquestion  of  law under s. 33B of the Income-tax  Act.	 Therespondent  assessee had been registered as a firm under  s.26A  of	 the Act for the year 1946-47.	For  the  assessmentyears  1947-48, 1948-49 and 1949-50, the Income-tax  Officermade the assessment on the respondent on June 7, 1949,	June7, 1949, and September 23, 1949, respectively under s. 23(3)of  the Act.  The Income-tax Officer made an estimate  aboutthe profits of the respondent under the proviso to s. 13 andcomputed  the total income of the respondent at Rs.  95,053,Rs.  93,430 and Rs. 83,752 for the said years  respectively.The  respondent	 had  applied for and  obtained	 renewal  ofregistration  of the firm.  The Income-tax Officer had	alsopassed an order under s. 23(6) of the Act and allocated	 theshares of the various parties.Against the said assessment orders the respondent  preferredan  appeal  to	the Appellate  Assistant  Commissioner.	  OnNovember 4, 1950, the Appellate91716Assistant  Commissioner reduced the  respondent's  estimatedprofit	by Rs. 28,250 in the assessment year 1947-48 and  byRs. 19,000 in the assessment year 1948-49.  The respondent'sappeal in regard to the assessment year 1949-50 was  pendingbefore the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.Meanwhile  it had come to the notice of the Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  that the respondent firm which had been  grantedrenewal of registration by the Income-tax Officer was not  afirm  which could be registered under the Act as one of	 thepartners  of  the firm was a minor.  The  Commissioner	thentook action under s. 33B(1) of the Act and issued notice  tothe respondent to show cause why the assessments made  unders.  23(3) of the Act and the registration granted  under  s.26A should not be cancelled.  After hearing the parties, theCommissioner passed an order under s. 33B(1) on June 5, 1951by which he cancelled the registration of the firm under  s.26A  and  directed  the Income-tax  Officer  to	 make  freshassessments  against the respondent as an unregistered	firmfor  all  the three years.  As a result of  this  revisionalorder passed by the Commissioner of Income-tax, the  Income-tax Officer passed fresh orders.The  respondent preferred five appeals to the tribunal;	 twoof  these  were against the orders passed by  the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner	 under	s. 31  and  related  to	 theassessment  years  1947-48 and 194849; while  the  remainingthree  challenged the orders passed by the  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  under  s. 33B(1) of the Act and related  to	 theassessment  years  1947-48, 1948-49 and 1949-50.   In  thesethree  appeals, with which we are concerned, the  respondenthad urged that the Commissioner was not competent in law  topass  an  order setting aside an assessment which  had	beenconfirmed   or	 modified   by	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner;  that  the orders passed by  the	Commissionerunder s. 33B(1) were bad in law as they directed the Income-tax Officer to pass an order in a particular manner and thatthe  orders passed by the Income-tax Officer  subsequent  tothe  cancellation of the respondent's registration were	 badin law as they were passed with-717out  giving  notice  to, or  hearing,  the  respondent.	  OnJanuary 2, 1952, the tribunal upheld the contentions  raisedby the respondent and allowed the appeals.The appellant then moved the tribunal under s. 66(1) of	 theAct for referring the questions specified in its applicationfor the opinion of the High Court.  The tribunal accordinglyframed	the following three questions and referred  them  tothe High Court of, Bombay:" 1. Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case	 theCommissioner  of Income-tax acting under s. 33B(1)  can	 setaside	the  orders  passed  by	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner, for the assessment years 1947-48 and 1948-49 ?2.Whether  on  the facts and circumstances of the  case	 theorder  passed  by the Commissioner of Income-tax  dated	 5thJune,  1951,  is  bad in law as it  directs  the  Income-taxOfficer to pass an order in a particular manner ?3.Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case  orderspassed	by the Income-tax Officer dated 21-6-52 are  bad  inlaw,  as fresh notices as required by Sections 22 and 23  ofthe Income-tax Act were not given by the Income-tax  Officerto the assessee ? "This  matter was heard by the High Court on March  5,  1953.In regard to the assessments made for the years 1947-48	 and1948-49 the High Court held that the question raised by	 theappellant was concluded by the judgment already delivered byit in the Commissioner of Income-Tax, Bombay North v. TejajiFarasram Kharawala (1).	 In Tejaji's case the High Court hadheld that when an appeal is provided from a decision of	 thetribunal  and  the appeal court, after hearing	the  appeal,passes	an order, the order of the original court ceases  toexist  and is merged in the order of the appeal	 court;	 andalthough  the appeal court may merely confirm the  order  ofthe  trial court, the order that stands and is operative  isnot the order of the trial court but the order of the appealcourt.	 In  that view of the matter, since  the  Income-taxOfficer's order(1)  [1953] 23 I.T.R. 412.718granting registration to the respondent was assumed to	havemerged	in the appellate order, the revisional power of	 theCommissioner  could not be exercised in respect of it.	 Thesame  view  has been taken in the majority decision  of	 thePatna  High  Court  in Durgabati and  Narmadabala  Gupta  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax (1).  In respect of the  Income-tax Officer's order renewing registration to the  respondentfor the year 1949-50, the High Court took the view that	 therevisional power of the Commissioner could not be  exercisedeven  in respect of this order because the propriety or	 thecorrectness  of this order was open to consideration by	 theAppellate Assistant Commissioner in the respondent's  appealthen  pending  before  him, Commissioner  of  Income-tax  v.Amritlal  Bhogilal (subnom) (2).  In respect of	 this  orderthe High Court had framed an additional question.  It was inthese terms: " Whether the order of the Commissioner  actingunder  s. 33B(1) setting aside the order of  the  Income-taxOfficer	 where	an  appeal against that	 order	was  pendingbefore	the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was  valid?   "The  High  Court answered this additional question  also  infavour	of the assessee.  In the result the High Court	heldthat  the Commissioner's order cancelling  the	respondent'sregistration  for  all	the  three  years  in  question	 wasinvalid.   That	 is  why the High Court	 did  not  think  itnecesssary  to answer the remaining two questions framed  bythe tribunal.The  application subsequently made by the appellant  to	 theHigh  Court for a certificate under s. 66A (2) was  rejectedby the High Court.  Thereupon the appellant applied for	 andobtained  special leave from this Court on March  22,  1954.The  appellant's  contention is that the view taken  by	 theHigh  Court  that the Commissioner of Income-tax  could	 nothave  exercised	 his  revisional power	in  respect  of	 theIncome-tax  Officer's  order granting  registration  to	 therespondent with regard to all the three years in question isbased  on  a misconstruction of the relevant  provisions  ofs.33B of the Act.Section 33B (1) which confers revisional power on(1) [1956] 30 I.T.R, 101.(2) [1953] 23 I.T.R. 420.719the Commissioner provides that the Commissioner may call forand  examine the record of any proceeding under the Act	 andif he considers that any order passed therein by the Income-tax  Officer is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial  tothe  interests	of  the revenue, he may,  after	 giving	 theassessee an opportunity of being heard and, after making andcausing to be made such enquiry as he deems necessary,	passsuch order thereon as the circumstances of the case  justifyincluding an order enhancing or modifying the assessment  orcancelling  the assessment or directing a fresh	 assessment.Sub-section  (2) provides that orders of re-assessment	madeunder s. 34 cannot be revised under s. 33B (1) and adds thatthe  said  revisional power cannot be  exercised  after	 thelapse  of two years from the date of the order sought to  berevised.   Sub-section (3) gives the assessee the  right  toprefer an appeal to the appellate tribunal against the	Com-missioner's  revisional order within the prescribed  period;and sub-s. (4) provides for the procedure for filing such anappeal.In the present appeal two short questions fall to be decidedunder  s. 33B (1).  Does the order passed by the  Income-taxOfficer granting registration to the assessee firm  continueto  be an order passed by the Income-tax Officer even  afterthe  assessee's	 appeal against the assessment made  by	 theIncome-tax  Officer  on the basis that the  assessee  was  aregistered  firm  has  been disposed  of  by  the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner ? In other words, where	 the  appealpreferred  by  an assessee against his assessment  has	beenconsidered   and   decided  by	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner, does the order of registration along with	 thesubsequent order -of assessment merge in the appellate order? If, in law, the order of registration can be said to mergein   the   final   appellate   order,	then   clearly	 theCommissioner's	revisional  power  cannot  be  exercised  inrespect	 of  it.   This question arises in  respect  of	 theregistration  order  in regard to the two  assessment  years1947-48 and 1948-49.  The other question which also falls tobe  decided is whether the order of registration in  respectof the assessment year7201949-50	 can be made the subject-matter of the	exercise  ofthe   Commissioner's  revisional  power	 even	though	 theassessee's  appeal against the assessment for the said	yearis  pending before the Appellate Assistant  Commissioner  atthe material time.There can be no doubt that, if an appeal is provided againstan order passed by a tribunal, the decision of the appellateauthority  is  the  operative  decision	 in  law.   If	 theappellate authority modifies or reverses the decision of thetribunal,  it is obvious that it is the	 appellate  decisionthat is effective and can be enforced.	In law the  positionwould be just the same even if the appellate decision merelyconfirms  the decision of the tribunal.	 As a result of	 theconfirmation  or affirmance of the decision of the  tribunalby  the appellate authority the original decision merges  inthe  appellate	decision and it is  the	 appellate  decisionalone  which  subsists	and  is	 operative  and	 capable  ofenforcement; but the question is whether this principle	 canapply	to   the   Income-tax	Officer's   order   grantingregistration to the respondent.In dealing with this question it would be necessary first torefer to the relevant provisions of the Act in regard to thegranting of registration.  Section 26A of the Act lays	downthe procedure for the registration of firms.  An applicationhas  to	 be made by the firm in that behalf  specifying	 theparticulars  prescribed	 by  the said  section	and  by	 thematerial  rules	 framed under the Act.	If  registration  isgranted by the Income-tax Officer it enables the  Income-taxOfficer	 to adopt the procedure prescribed by s. 23 (5)	 (a)for  making assessment orders in respect of  the  registeredfirm.  If a firm is not registered the Income-tax Officer isrequired to follow the procedure prescribed by s. 23 (5) (b)in  making  assessment	orders in  respect  of	unregisteredfirms.	 A firm is an assessee under s. 2 (2) whether it  isregistered under s. 26A or not.	 The Act does not impose  anobligation  on firms to apply for and  obtain  registration.The  Act in terms does not purport to define the  effect  ofregistration nor does it enumerate the rights of parties  onregistration  of firms.	 Section 23 (5) (a) and (b)  providefor, the machinery for721collecting or recovering the tax and in no sense can they betreated	 as  charging sections.	 Broadly stated, even  if  afirm is registered in pursuance of an application made unders. 26A, no difference arises in the liability of the firm orits individual partners to be taxed for the total income  asmay be determined by the Income-tax Officer under ss. 3	 and4  of the Act.	The computation of taxable income is not  atall  affected by the machinery provided by s. 23  (5).	 Thedecision in Shapurji Pallonji v. Commissioner of Income-Tax,Bombay	(1)  on which Mr. Ayyangar  himself  relied  clearlybrings	out and emphasizes this position.  It is  true	thatthe  Income-tax	 Officer  is empowered	to  follow  the	 twomethods	 specified in s. 23 (5) (a) and (b)  in	 determiningthe  tax  payable  by  registered  and	unregistered   firmsrespectively and making the demand for the tax so found due;but this does not affect the computation of taxable  income.It  is	important to bear in mind that	the  order  grantingregistration  to  an  assessee firm is	an  independent	 andseparate  order	 and  it  merely  affects  or  governs	 theprocedure to be adopted in collecting or recovering the	 taxfound due.  It is not disputed that the registration grantedby  the	 Income-tax  Officer  to an  assessee  firm  can  becancelled by him either under s. 23 (4) or under r. 6B.	  Itis  also clear that the Income-tax Officer's order  grantingregistration  can be cancelled by the Commissioner under  s.33B (1).  The argument for the respondent, however, is that,as  a result of the decision of the appeal preferred by	 himagainst	 the Income-tax Officer's order of  assessment,	 theorder  of registration passed by the Income-tax	 Officer  infavour	of the respondent has ceased to be the order  passedby the Income-tax Officer as such.It  is therefore necessary to inquire whether the  order  ofregistration  passed  by  the  Income-tax  Officer  can	  bechallenged by the department before the Appellate  AssistantCommissioner where the assessee firm has preferred an appealagainst	 the  order  of assessment.  The  decision  of	thisquestion would obviously depend upon the relevant provisionsof the(1)[1945] 13 1. T. R. 113722Act  in	 respect  of  appeals  to  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  and  the	powers of  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner.	Section 30 (1) gives the assessee the  rightto  prefer appeals against the orders specified in the	saidsection.  The assessee firm can, for instance, object to theamount of income assessed under s. 23 or s. 27. The assesseefirm  can also object to the order passed by the  Income-taxOfficer	 refusing to register it under s. 23 (4) or s.	26A.It can likewise object to the cancellation by the Income-taxOfficer	 of  its  registration	under  s.  23  (4).   It  issignificant  that,  whereas an appeal  is  provided  againstorders	passed by the Income-tax Officer under s. 23 (4)  ors.  26A either refusing to register the firm  or  cancellingregistration  of  the firm, no appeal can be  filed  by	 thedepartment against the order granting registration.   Indeedit  is	patent	that the scheme of the	Act  in	 respect  ofappeals	 to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner is that  itis only the assessee who is given a right to make an  appealand not the department.	 Thus there can be no doubt that theIncome-tax  Officer's order granting registration to a	firmcannot	become	the subjectmatter of an	 appeal	 before	 theAppellate Assistant Commissioner.The  next question which must be considered is	whether	 theIncome-tax  Officer's order granting registration to a	firmcan  be challenged by the department during the	 hearing  ofthe firm's appeal against the final order of assessment madeby  the	 Income-tax Officer ? The powers  of  the  AppellateAssistant Commissioner are to be found in s. 31 of the	Act.Section	 31  (3)  (a)  authorises  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  to  confirm,  reduce,  enhance  or  annul	 theassessment  under appeal.  Under s. 31 (3) (b), wide  powersare  given  to	the appellate authority	 to  set  aside	 theassessment  or direct the Income-tax Officer to	 make  freshassessment after making such further enquiry as the  Income-tax  Officer  may think fit or as  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner   may   direct.	The   Appellate	   AssistantCommissioner is also given the authority, in the case of  anorder  cancelling the registration of the firm under  sub-s.(4) of s. 23 or723refusing to register a firm under sub-s. (4) of s. 23 or  s.26A  or to make a fresh assessment under s. 27,	 to  confirmsuch order or cancel it and direct the Incometax Officer  toregister the firm or to make a fresh assessment as the	casemay  be.   This	 section  further lays	down  that,  at	 thehearing,  of  an appeal against the order of  an  Income-taxOfficer,  the Income-tax Officer shall have the right to  beheard either in person or by his representative.  It is thusclear that wide powers have been conferred on the  AppellateAssistant Commissioner under s. 31.  It is also clear  that,before	the appellate authority exercises his powers, he  isbound  to  hear	 the Income-tax Officer	 or  his  represent.ative.	 It  has been urged before us by Mr.  Ayyangar	thatthese  provisions  indicate that, in exercise  of  his	widepowers the Appellate Assistant Commissioner can, in a propercase,	after	hearing	 the  Income-tax  Officer   or	 hisrepresentative,	 set aside the order of registration  passedby  the Income-tax Officer.  We are not -prepared to  acceptthis  argument.	  The  powers  of  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner, however wide, have, we think, to be  exercisedin  respect  of	 the matters  which  are  specifically	madeappealable under s. 30(1) of the Act.  If any order has beendeliberately left out from the jurisdiction of the AppellateAssistant Commissioner it would not be open to the appellateauthority  to  entertain  a  plea,  about  the	correctness,propriety  or  validity of such an order.   Indeed,  if	 therespondent's contention is accepted, it would virtually givethe  department	 a  right of appeal  against  the  order  inquestion  and there can be no doubt that the scheme  of	 theAct  is not to give the department a right of appeal to	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner against any orders  passedby the Income-tax Officer.  The order granting	registrationcan  be cancelled by the Income-tax Officer  himself  eitherunder  r. 6B or under s. 23(4).	 It may be cancelled by	 theCommissioner in exercise of his revisional power under s. 33B;  but	 it cannot be cancelled by the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner in exercise of his appellate jurisdiction unders. 31 of the Act.  It is true that,92724in  dealing with the assessee's appeal against the order  ofassessment, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may  modifythe  assessment,  reverse  it or send it  back	for  furtherenquiry	 ;  but	 any  order  that  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  may  make	 in respect of any  of	the  mattersbrought before him in appeal will not and cannot affect	 theorder  of registration made by the Income-tax  Officer.	  Ifthat be the true position, the order of registration  passedby the Income-tax Officer stands outside the jurisdiction ofthe  Appellate Assistant Commissioner and does not  strictlyform part of the proceedings before the appellate authority.Even  after  the appeal is decided and	in  consequence	 theappellate  order  is  the  only order  which  is  valid	 andenforceable  in law, what merges in the appellate  order  isthe  Income-tax	 Officer's order under appeal  and  not	 hisorder  of registration which was not and could never  becomethe  subject-matter  of	 an  appeal  before  the   appellateauthority.  The theory that the order of the tribunal mergesin  the	 order of the appellate authority  cannot  thereforeapply to the order of registration passed by the  Income-taxOfficer in the present case.In  this connection we may refer to the argument  which	 Mr.Ayyangar  seriously pressed before us.	He  contended  that,when   the  Appellate  Assistant  Commissioner	 hears	 theassessee's appeal, he is himself computing the total taxableincome of the assessee and, in discharging his obligation inthat behalf, he may be entitled to consider all relevant andincidental  questions.	 In  support of	 this  argument	 Mr.Ayyangar  referred us to the decision in Rex v. The  SpecialCommissioner  of  Income-Tax (ex parte Elmhirst)  (1).	 Thepoint  which arose before the King's Bench Division in	thiscase was whether, when a notice of appeal has been given, itwas  open  to the assessee to withdraw his  appeal  and	 theCourt held that once notice of appeal is given the appellateauthority  was entitled and indeed bound to see that a	trueassessment  of	the amount of the taxpayer's  liability	 wasarrived	 at.   We are unable to see how	 this  decision	 canreally help the(1)  [1935] 20 Tax Cas. 381.725respondent  in	the present case.  When an appeal  is  takenbefore	the Appellate Assistant Commissioner undoubtedly  heis  bound to examine the case afresh but that  cannot  bringwithin	the  purview of his appellate  jurisdiction  matterswhich  are  deliberately left out by the Act.  If  s.  30(1)does  not provide for an appeal against a particular  order,legislature  obviously intends that the correctness  of	 thesaid   order  cannot  be  impeached  before  the   appellateauthority.   The  jurisdiction and powers of  the  appellateauthority must inevitably be determined by the specific	 andrelevant provisions of the Act.In this connection it may be useful to compare the  relevantand material features of the revisional -powers conferred onthe  Commissioner  by  ss. 33A and  33B	 respectively.	 TheCommissioner's	revisional  power  under s.  33A  cannot  beexercised to the prejudice of the assessee in any case.	  Itcan  be	 exercised  in	respect	 of  orders  passed  by	 anyauthority  subordinate to the Commissioner; but in  no	casecan the revisional order prejudicially affect the  assessee.It  is significant that the explanation to s. 33A  expresslyprovides that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner shall  bedeemed	to be an authority subordinate to the  Commissioner.In  other  words, in exercise of this revisional  power	 theCommissioner may modify or reverse in favour of the assesseeeven   the   orders  passed  by	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner.	The  position  Under  s.  33B,	however,  isdifferent.  The Commissioner's revisional power under s. 33Bcan  be	 exercised only in respect of orders passed  by	 theIncome-tax  Officer.  The appellate orders are	outside	 thepurview	 of  s.	 33B.  That  is	 one  important	 distinctionbetween	 the  two revisional powers.   The  other  importantdistinction  is	 that, whereas under s. 33A  the  revisionaljurisdiction  cannot  be exercised to the prejudice  of	 theassessee, under s. 33B the Commissioner can, in exercise  ofhis  revisional power, make orders to the prejudice  of	 theassessee.   It is not disputed that under s.  33B  erroneousorders	 passed	  by  the  Income-tax  Officer	 which	 areprejudicial   to   the	revenue	 can  be  revised   by	 theCommissioner.  Now,726the  Income-tax Officer's order registering the firm is	 notappealable  and so it cannot become the subjectmatter of  anappeal before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.  Such anorder can therefore be revised by the Commissioner under  s.33B  whenever  he  considers that it  has  been	 erroneouslypassed.	  In  the present case there is no doubt  that	the,respondent firm cannot be validly registered in view of	 thefact  that  one of its partners is a minor and	so,  on	 themerits, the Commissioner's order is clearly right.  We	mustaccordingly hold that the High Court was in error in  takingthe view that the Commissioner had no authority to set asidethe  registration  order passed by  the	 Income-tax  Officergranting registration to the respondent for the years  1947-48 and 1948-49.The  case in regard to the subsequent year 1949-50  presentsno  difficulty.	  The  appeal preferred	 by  the  respondentagainst the Income-tax Officer's assessment order in respectof  this  year was pending at the material time	 before	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner; and so  no	question  ofmerger	arose  in respect of the order granting	 renewal  ofregistration  for this period.	There can be no	 doubt	thateven  on the theory of merger the pendency of an appeal	 mayput the order under appeal in jeopardy but until the  appealis  finally  disposed  of the said  order  subsists  and  iseffective in law.  It cannot be urged that the mere pendencyof  an appeal has the effect of suspending the operation  ofthe order under appeal.	 The High Court, however, appears tohave  taken  the  view	that  the  revisional  power  is  anextraordinary  power and can be exercised only	for  unusualand extraordinary reasons.  It was also assumed by the	HighCourt that, in the pending appeal, the department would havean alternative remedy because, according to the High  Court,the  department	 could have challenged the validity  or	 thepropriety  of the respondent's registration and	 could	haveasked the Appellate Assistant Commissioner to cancel it.  Aswe  have  already  pointed out,	 the  department  could	 notchallenge  the	validity of the registration  order  in	 theassessee's appeal before the appellate authority and so	 theargument that the.727department had an alternative remedy is not correct.  It  isclear  from  the judgment of the High Court that it  is	 theassumption  that  the department had an	 alternative  remedywhich  weighed	with the learned judges	 in  reaching  theirfinal conclusion.  Then the argument that the  extraordinaryrevisional  power must be exercised only  for  extraordinaryreasons	 is  really not very material.	Whether or  not	 therevisional  power can be exercised in a given case  must  bedetermined  solely  by	reference to the  terms	 of  s.	 33Bitself.	   Courts  would  not  be  justified   in   imposingadditional limitations on the exercise of the said power  onhypothetical  considerations of policy or the  extraordinarynature of the power.  We must, therefore, hold that the HighCourt was also in error in holding that the Commissioner wasnot  authorised in cancelling the order of the	respondent'sregistration  for the year 1949-50.  The result is that	 theview taken by the High Court must be reversed and the  firstquestion  framed by the tribunal as well as  the  additionalquestion framed by the High Court must be answered in favourof the appellant.Then  there remain two other questions which were framed  bythe tribunal but have not been considered by the High Court.The  learned  counsel appearing for both the  parties  agreethat we need not remit these two questions to the High Courtwith the direction that the High Court should deal with themin accordance with law; it has been conceded before us that,if  the	 principal question about the  Commissioner's  powerunder  s. 33B(1) to cancel the respondent's registration  isanswered in favour of the appellant, then the two  remainingquestions  would become academic and answers to	 them  wouldalso have to be in favour of the appellant.  It is true,  byhis  order  the	 Commissioner purported	 to  set  aside	 theassessment orders made under s. 23(3) and s. 55 and directedthe Incometax Officer to make fresh assessments according tolaw for each of the years in question.	If this part of	 theorder is literally construed it would clearly be open to theobjection  raised by the respondent.  The assessment  orderspassed	by the Income-tax Officer for the years 1947-48	 and1948-49 had been modified by the728Appellate Assistant Commissioner and in that sense they	 hadceased to be the orders of assessment passed by the  Income-tax  Officer himself and so the Commissioner could not	haveexercised his revisional power under s. 33B(1) in respect ofthe said appellate orders but we are inclined to think	thatthe Commissioner did not intend to set aside the assessmentsin  this sense.	 It is clear from the order read as a  wholethat,  having  cancelled the respondents  registration,	 theCommissioner wanted to direct the Income-tax Officer to makesuitable consequential amendment in regard to the  machineryor procedure to be adopted to recover the tax payable by therespondent.  In fact it is conceded that, in his  subsequentorder, the Income-tax Officer has accepted the figure of thetaxable	 income	 of  the respondent  as	 determined  by	 theappellate authority for the relevant years and has proceededto act under s. 23(5)(b) on the basis that the respondent isan  unregistered  firm.	 Therefore we cannot hold  that	 theorder passed by the Commissioner is bad in law on the groundthat " he directed the Income-tax Officer to pass the  orderin a particular manner ". The answer to question No. 2 wouldaccordingly  be in the. negative.  Then as regards  questionNo.  3, it is difficult to understand how this question	 canbe  said to arise from the proceedings before the  tribunal.This  question	challenges  the validity  of  the  procedureadopted	 by the Income-tax Officer in passing  fresh  ordersagainst	  the  respondent.   This  proceeding	is   clearlysubsequent  to the impugned order of the Commissioner  unders.  33B(1)  and	 so we are unable to see  how  the  tribunalallowed	 the respondent to raise this contention in  appealswhich	had  been  filed  by  the  respondent  against	 theCommissioner's order under s. 33B(1).  Besides, it has	beenfairly	conceded  by Mr. Ayyangar before us that,  when	 theIncome-tax  Officer  merely proceeded to adopt	a  differentmachinery  to  recover the tax due from	 the  respondent  inconsequence   of  the  cancellation  of	  the	respondent'sregistration, there was no occasion or need to issue anothernotice	against the respondent.	 We must accordingly  answerquestion No. 3 also in the negative.729In  the	 result all the questions framed in  this  case	 areanswered  in favour of the appellant.  The order  passed  bythe  High Court is set aside and the appeal is allowed	withcosts throughout.Appeal allowed.