PETITIONER:PHULBARI TEA ESTATE	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/05/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1111		  1960 SCR  (1)	 32 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC1342	 (18) R	    1960 SC 160	 (66) C	    1963 SC 375	 (7) R	    1963 SC1756	 (2,6) D	    1965 SC 155	 (8) R	    1965 SC1803	 (11) R	    1972 SC 136	 (33) R	    1972 SC1031	 (51) E	    1976 SC1760	 (7,8,9,10,11) RF	    1979 SC1652	 (18) D	    1984 SC 273	 (37)ACT:Industrial Dispute-Tribunal-Question of competency-when	 canbe  raised-Dismissal of workmen on enquiry -Rule of  naturaljustice-Defect in Procedure, if curable-Industrial  DisputesAct 14 of 1947), s. 7.HEADNOTE:Two  workmen Das and another were arrested by the police  onthe complaint of the appellant company for an alleged theft.The  manager held an enquiry and dismissed Das from  servicefor gross misconduct.At  the enquiry, Das stated that he had nothing to  say	 andknew  nothing  about  the  theft.   Certain  persons   whosestatements   had  been	recorded  by  the  manager  at	 theinvestigation  stage in the absence of Das, were present  atthe  said enquiry.  Das was told to ask those  persons	whatthey  had  to say, though he was neither supplied  with	 thecopies	of  the statements made by them nor  the  statementswere  read  over  to him at the time of	 the  enquiry.	 Dasreplied	 that  he  would not put  any.	questions  to  them.Thereupon  these witnesses were asked whether  the  evidencethey  had given before the manager was correct, and if	not,they were at liberty to amend it, to which they replied thatthe evidence they had given was correct.Some  time later, the Magistrate on the final report of	 thepolice discharged Das.	Thereafter the Union had the  matterreferred  to the Tribunal.  Before the Tribunal the  companyproduced  only the statements of the witnesses but  did	 notproduce	 the  witnesses themselves.  The Tribunal  found  infavour	of  the workman.  The company came up in  appeal  byspecial	 leave	to the Supreme Court, where, for  the  firsttime  it  raised  the  question	 of  the  qualification	 andcompetency of the one member Tribunal under S. 7 Of the Act.Held, that the question whether the Tribunal was a competentone  under s. 7 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947,  priorto  the	 amending Act 36 of 956, must be raised	 before	 theTribunal  itself  as it was a matter  of  investigation	 andcould  not be raised for the first time before	the  SupremeCourt.Held further, that the basic principle of natural justice inan  enquiry  was  that	the  opponent  must  be	 given	 theopportunity  of questioning the witnesses after	 knowing  infull  what they had to state against him.  The witnesses  onwhom  the party relied should generally be examined  in	 thepresence of the opponent and he must also be informed  aboutthe  material  sought to be used against him, and  given  anopportunity to explain it,			     33Union of India v. T. R. Varma [1958] S.C.R. 499, followed.New Prakash Transport Co. Ltd. v. New Suwvarna Transport Co.Ltd. [1957] S.C.R. 98, referred to.Held,  further, that if there was defect in the	 conduct  ofthe  enquiry  by the employer it could be cured if  all	 therelevant  evidence  including  the witnesses  who  were	 notexamined in the presence of the workman were produced beforethe  Tribunal,	thereby giving the party an  opportunity  tocross-examine  them,  and  leaving it  to  the	Tribunal  toconsider the evidence and decide the case on merits.M/s.  Sasa Musa Sugar Works (P) Ltd. v. Shobrati Khan  C.As.Nos. 746 & 747 Of 1957 decided on 29-4-1959, followed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 205 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober	 23,  1956,  of the Industrial	Tribunal,  Assam  inReference No. 16 of 1956.M.C.   Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for	 India,	  S.   N.Mukherjee and B. N. Ghosh, for the appellant.C.B. Agarwala and K. P. Gupta, for the respondents.1959.  May 6. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO	 J.-This  is  an  appeal  by  special  leave  in  anindustrial matter.  The appellant is the Phulbari Tea Estate(hereinafter  called the company).  The case relates to	 thedismissal  of  one workman namely, B.  N.  Das	(hereinaftercalled	Das),  which  had been taken up by  the	 Assam	ChahKarmchari  Sangh.  which  is a registered  trade  union.   Areference  "Was made by the Government of Assam on March  8,1956, to the Industrial Tribunal on the question whether thedismissal  of Das was justified; and if not, whether he	 wasentitled  to reinstatement with or without  compensation  orany other relief in lieu thereof.  Das was dismissed by	 thecompany on March 12, 1955.  The charge against him was	thaton  the	 night	of February 6/7, 1955,	he  along  with	 oneSamson, also an employee of the company, committed theft  oftwo wheels complete with tyres and tubes from the  company'slorry,534which  amounted	 to  gross  misconduct	under  the  StandingOrders.	  The  case was reported to the police and  'Das  aswell  as Samson were arrested.	Das remained in jail  up  toFebruary  25,  1955,  when  he was  released  on  bail.	  Hereported for duty on February 28 ; but the manager suspendedhim  for  ten days from March 1. Thereafter, he	 was  servedwith  a charge-sheet on March 10, 1955, asking him  to	showcause why he should not be dismissed for gross misconduct asmentioned  above.  He gave a reply on March 11, that as	 thecase  was sub judice in the criminal court, the question  ofdismissal  did not arise at that stage and  the	 allegationsagainst him would have to be proved in the court.  On  March12,  the  manager  held an enquiry, which  was	followed  bydismissal,  on	that very day.	We shall  mention  later  indetail	what  happened at the enquiry, as that is  the	mainpoint  which  requires	consideration in  this	appeal.	  Tocontinue  the  narrative, however, the	police	submitted  afinal report and the magistrate discharged Das on March	 23,1955.	Thereafter, his case was taken up by the  union	 andeventually  reference was made to the Tribunal on  March  8,1956.	The  Tribunal  came  to	 the  conclusion  that	 thedismissal  of Das was not justified on the ground of  properprocedure  not	having been followed and also  for  want  oflegal  evidence.  It went on to say that normally Das  wouldhave  been  entitled to reinstatement but  in  the  peculiarcircumstances of this case it was of opinion that he  shouldbe   granted  the  alternative	relief	 for   compensation.Consequently,  it ordered that Das would be entitled to	 hispay  and allowances from February 28, to March 11, 1955	 andfull  pay  and allowances from March 12, till  the  date  ofpayment.   It  also  ordered that he would  be	entitled  tofifteen day's pay for every completed year of service  alongwith all benefits that accrued to him till the date of finalpayment.  This award, was given on October 23, 1956, and wasin  due	 course published and came into	 force.	  Thereupon,there was an application to this Court for special leave  toappeal,	 which was granted; and that is how the	 matter	 hascome up before us.			     35Two  points  have  been urged before us	 on  behalf  of	 thecompany, namely-(1)the Tribunal was not a competent tribunal under s. 7 ofthe  Industrial Disputes Act, No. XIV of  1947	(hereinaftercalled the Act) as it then stood; and(2)the award of the Tribunal is not sustainable in law	asit  shows  as if the Tribunal was sitting in appeal  on	 theenquiry held by the company, and this it was not entitled todo.Re. (1).Reference in this case was made on March 8, 1956, before theamending  Act  No. XXXVI of 1956 came into  force.   At	 therelevant  time, therefore, s. 7 of the Act,  which  providedthe qualifications of a tribunal, required that where it wasone member tribunal, he (a) should be or should have been  aJudge of a High Court, or (b) should be or should have	beena district judge, or (c) should be qualified for appointmentas  a  Judge of a High Court.  The contention is  that	ShriHazarika  who  was  the	 tribunal  in  this  case,  was	 notqualified  under  this provision.  This contention  was	 notraised before the Tribunal and therefore the facts necessaryto  establish  whether	Shri Hazarika was  qualified  to  beappointed  as  a tribunal or not were not gone	into.	ShriHazarika was an Additional District & Sessions Judge,  LowerAssam  Division,  at  the  time	 the  reference	 was   made.Assuming  that he was not qualified under clause (a)  above,he  might well have been qualified under clause (b),  if  hehad been a District Judge elsewhere before he became an	 Ad-ditional   District  Judge  in	this  particular   division.Further even if he had never been a District Judge, he mightbe  qualified  for  appointment as Judge of  a	High  Court.These matters needed investigation and were not investigatedbecause	 this question was not raised before  the  Tribunal.In  the	 circumstance,	we are not  prepared  to  allow	 thecompany to raise this question before us for the first	timeand so we reject the contention under this head.Re. (2).The Tribunal gave two reasons for holding that the dismissalwas unjustified; namely--(1) that36proper	procedure had not been followed, and (2) that  legalevidence  was  wanting.	  So far as  the  second  reason  isconcerned, there is force in the criticism on behalf of	 thecompany that the Tribunal had proceeded as if it was sittingin  appeal  on	the  enquiry  held  by	the  company.	 Butconsidering  that  the	Tribunal Was also  of  opinion	thatproper procedure had not been followed we have still to	 seewhether	  that	finding	 of  the  Tribunal   justifies	 theconclusion  at which it arrived.  We may in this  connectionset out in detail what happened at the enquiry on March	 12,as  appears  from  the	testimony of  the  manager  and	 thedocuments  produced by him before the Tribunal.	  They	showthat when the enquiry was held on March 12, certain persons,whose  statements  had been recorded by the manager  in	 theabsence	 of  Das  during the course of what  may  be  calledinvestigation by the company were present.  The first  ques-tion  that  Das	 was asked on that day was  whether  he	 hadanything to say in connection with the disappearance of	 twolorry wheels and tyres from the garage.	 He replied that  hehad  nothing to say, adding that he knew nothing  about	 thetheft.	 He  was  then told that the people  who  had  givenevidence  against  him were present and he should  ask	themwhat  they  had	 to say.  He replied that he  would  put  noquestions  to them.  Then the witnesses present	 were  askedwhether	 the evidence they had given before the manager	 wascorrect	 or not; and if that was not correct, they  were  atliberty	 to  amend it.	They all replied that  the  evidencethey had given before the manager was correct.	This was allthat had happened at the enquiry on March 12, and thereafterthe  order  of	dismissal was passed by	 the  manager.	 Themanager's  testimony  shows  that  the	witnesses  who	werepresent at the enquiry were not examined in the presence  ofDas.   It also does not show that copies of  the  statementsmade  by  the witnesses were supplied to Das before  he	 wasasked to question them.	 Further his evidence does not	showthat  the statements which had been recorded were read	overto  Das at the enquiry before he was asked to  question	 thewitnesses.  It is37true  that the statements which were recorded were  producedon  behalf  of	the company before  the	 Tribunal;  but	 thewitnesses  were	 not produced so that they might  be  cross-examined even at that stage on behalf of Das.  The  questionis  whether  in these circumstances it can be said  that  anenquiry	 as  required by principles of natural	justice	 wasmade in this case.We  may in this connection refer to Union of India v. T.  R.Varma  (1).  That was a case relating to the dismissal of  apublic servant and the question was whether the enquiry heldunder  Art.  311  of  the  Constitution	 of  India  was	  inaccordance  with  the principles of natural  justice.	ThisCourt,	speaking  through Venkatarama Ayyar J.	observed  asfollows in that connection at p. 507:-"  Stating  it	broadly	 and  without  intending  it  to  beexhaustive, it may be observed that rules of natural justicerequire that a party should have the opportunity of adducingall relevant evidence on which he relies, that the  evidenceof the opponent should be taken in his presence, and that heshould	be  given  the opportunity  of	cross-examining	 thewitnesses  examined  by that party, and	 that  no  materialsshould	be relied on against him without his being given  anopportunity of explaining them."It will be immediately clear that these principles were	 notfollowed  in  the  enquiry which took  place  on  March	 12,inasmuch  as the witnesses on which the company relied	werenot  examined in the presence of Das.  It is true  that	 theprinciples  laid  down	in that case are  not  meant  to  beexhaustive.  In another case New Prakash Transport Co.	Ltd.v. New Suwarna Transport Co. Ltd. (2), this Court held	that"rules	 of   natural	justice	 vary	with   the   varyingconstitutions  of statutory bodies and the rules  prescribedby  the	 legislature under which they have to act,  and	 thequestion  whether  in  a  particular  case  they  have	beencontravened must be judged not by any preconceived notion ofwhat  they may be but in the light of the provisions of	 therelevant Act ". In that case, it(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 499.(2) [1957] S.C.R. 98.38was  held  that	 " the reading out of the  contents  of	 thepolice	report by the Chairman at the hearing of the  appealwas  enough compliance with the rules of natural justice  asthere was nothing in the rules requiring a copy of it to  befurnished to any of the parties.  That was, however, a	casein  which  the	police officer making  the  report  was	 notrequired  to be crossexamined; on the other hand, the  partyconcerned was informed about the material sought to be	usedagainst him and was given an opportunity to explain it.	 Thenarration of facts as to what happened on March 12, which wehave given above, shows that even this was not done in	thiscase,	for  there  is	no  evidence  that  copies  of	 thestatements, of witnesses who had given evidence against	 Daswere supplied to him or even that the statements made by thewitnesses  to the manager were read out in extensor  to	 Dasbefore	 he   was  asked  to  question	 them.	  In   thesecircumstances one of the basic principles of natural justicein  an enquiry of this nature was not observed, and,  there-fore, the finding of the Tribunal that proper procedure	 hadnot been followed is justified and is not open to challenge.The  defect  in the conduct of the enquiry could  have	beencured  if the company had produced the witnesses before	 theTribunal  and given an opportunity to Das  to  cross-examinethem  there.   In Messrs.  Sasa Musa Sugar  Works  (Private)Ltd. v. Shobrati Khan (1), we had occasion to point out thateven  where  the employer did not hold	ail  enquiry  beforeapplying under s. 33 of the Act for permission to dismiss anemployee,  he  could make good the defect by  producing	 allrelevant  evidence  which would have, been examined  at	 theenquiry,  before  the tribunal, in which case  the  tribunalwould  consider the evidence and decide	 whether  permissionshould be granted or not.  The same principle would apply incase  of adjudication under s. 15 of the Act, and  if  therewas defect in the enquiry by the employer he could make goodthat  defect  by  producing necessary  evidence	 before	 thetribunal.  But even that was not done in this case, for	 allthat the company did(1)  C. As.  Nos. 746 & 747 Of 1957 decided on 29-4-1059.39before	the Tribunal was to produce the statements  recordedby  the	 manager during what we have  called  investigation.This  left the matters where they were and Das had never  anopportunity  of questioning the witnesses after	 knowing  infull   what  they  had	stated	against,  him.	  In   thesecircumstances  we  are of opinion that the  finding  of	 theTribunal  that	the enquiry in this case was not  proper  iscorrect and must stand.We  therefore dismiss the appeal.  We should, however,	liketo make it clear that the order of the Tribunal fixing grantof compensation till the date of payment must be taken to belimited	 to the sum of Rs. 11,125, which has been  depositedin  this Court in pursuance of this Court's order  of  April22,  1957 and Das will not be entitled to anything more,  asfurther	 stay of payment was pursuant to the order  of	thisCourt.	 In  the circumstances we are of  opinion  that	 theparties should bear their own costs of this Court.Appeal dismissed.