PETITIONER:THE INDIAN MOLASSES CO. (PRIVATE) LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, WESTBENGAL.DATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1049		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 964 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC1722	 (9) R	    1970 SC2067	 (2,6) D	    1986 SC 383	 (7) R	    1986 SC 484	 (24)ACT:Income-tax-Deduction  -Business expenditure-Payment of	sumsfor getting annuities to provide pension-Liability dependingon  contingency-Expenditure,  meaning  of-Indian  Income-taxAct, 1922 (XI Of 1922), S. 10(2)(XV).HEADNOTE:With  a view to provide a pension to H who was the  managingdirector  of the appellant company, after his retirement  atthe  age  Of  55 years on September 20,	 1955,	the  companyexecuted  a trust deed on September 16, 1948, in  favour  ofthree  trustees	 to  whom  the company paid  a	sum  of	 Rs.1,09,643 and further undertook to pay annually Rs. 4,364 forsix  consecutive years.	 The trustees undertook to hold	 thesaid  sums  upon  trust to spend the same in  taking  out  aDeferred  Annuity  Policy with an Insurance Society  in	 thename  of  the trustees but on the life of H  under  which  acertain sum of money was payable annually to H for life fromthe date of his superannuation.	 It was also provided in thedeed  that  notwithstanding  the main  clause  the  trusteeswould,	if  so desired by the company, take  out  instead  adifferent  kind of policy for the benefit of both H and	 hiswife,  with  a further provision for His wife should  H	 diebefore he attained the age Of 55.  On January 12, 1949,	 thetrustees  took out a policy, wherein the amount of  DeferredAnnuity to be paid per annum was fixed according as  whetherboth  H and his wife were living on September 20,  1955,  orone of them died earlier.  The policy also contained,  interalia,  two clauses: " (i) Provided the contract is in  forceand  unseduced, the Grantees (i. e., the trustees) shall  beentitled to surrender the Annuity on the Option	 Anniversary(i.e.,	Sept. 20, 1955) for the Capital sum of pound  10,169subject	 to  written notice of the  intention  to  surrenderbeing  received by the Directors of the Society	 within	 thethirty	days preceding the Option Anniversary. (2)  If	boththe Nominees shall die whilst the Contract remains in  forceand  unreduced	and before the Option Anniversary  the	saidfunds  and Property of the Society shall be liable  to	makerepayment to the Grantees of a sum equal to a return of	 allthe premiums which shall have been paid under this  Contractwithout	  interest  after  proof  thereof  and	subject	  ashereinbefore provided."The  appellant company paid the initial sum and	 the  yearlypremia	for  some years before H died.	For  the  assessmentyears  1949.50, 1950.51, 1951-52 and 1952-53, the  appellantclaimed a deduction of these sums from its profits or  gainsunder s. 10(2)(XV)965of  the	 Indian	 Income-tax Act, 1922,	but  the  Income-taxauthorities disallowed the claim on the ground that the sumsclaimed did not amount to expenditure within the meaning  ofthe section.  The appellant's contention was that payment ofpension	 was  an expenditure of a revenue character  and  soalso  the  payment of a lump sum to get rid of	a  recurringliability  to  pay  such pension  and  that  expenditure  oninsurance was not contingent, because though the contingencyrelated	 to life and depended on it, the probabilities	wereestimated   on	 actuarial  calculations   and,	  that	 theexpenditure was, therefore, real.Held, that expenditure which is deductible for the  purposesof  income-tax under s. 10(2)(xv) of the  Indian  Income-taxAct, 1922, is one which must be towards a liability actuallyexisting  at the time, but the putting aside of money  whichmay  become expenditure on the happening of an event is	 notexpenditure.In  the	 present case, on the terms of the  deed  of  trust,money  was placed in the hands of trustees for the  purchaseof  annuities  of different kinds, if required,	 but  to  bereturned  if the annuities were not bought, and the  clausesin  the	 policy taken out by the trustees showed  that	tillSeptember  20, 1955, the appellant had dominion through	 thetrustees over the premia paid.	The payment to the  trusteeswas   therefore	  towards  a  liability	  depending   on   acontingency.   Consequently,  the  amount  claimed  was	 notliable to be deducted as an expenditure under S.  IO(2)(XV)Of the Act.Cases on English Income-tax law reviewed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 395 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember 21, 1955, of the Calcutta High Court in  Income-taxReference No. 15 of 1954.A.   C. Sampath Iyengar, Dipak Dutta Choudhury and B.  N.Ghosh, for the appellant.M.C.  Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, R.	GanapathyIyer, B. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1959.  May 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH,  J.-The  Indian Molasses Co.  (Private)  Ltd.,Calcutta  (hereinafter	called the assesses  Company),	havebrought	 this appeal, with the special leave of	 this  Courtgranted	 on  November 9, 1956, against the judgment  of	 theHigh  Court of Calcutta dated December 21, 1955, in  Income-tax Reference,966No.  15 of 1954.  The question of law referred to  the	HighCourt was:" Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case,and  on	 a true construction of the Trust Deed,	 dated	16thSeptember,  1948,  and the Policy dated	 the  13th  January,1949, the payments made by the assessee Company and referredto in paragraph 4 above constitute 'expenditure' within	 themeaning	 of  that  word in section  10(2)(xv)of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922, in respect of which a claim for deduc-tion  can be made,subject to the other conditions  mentionedin that clause being satisfied ".The question was answered in the negative.The facts of the case are as follows: One John Bruce RichardHarvey was the Managing Director of the assessee Company  in1948.	He had by then served the Company for 13 years,	 andwas  due to retire at the age of 55 years on  September	 20,1955.	There  was, it appears, an agreement  by  which	 theCompany	 was  under an obligation to provide  a	 pension  toHarvey	after  his retirement.	On September 16,  1948,	 theCompany executed a Trust Deed in favour of three trustees towhom  the  Company  paid  a sum	 of  pound  8,208-19-0	(Rs.1,09,643)  and further undertook to pay annually  Rs.  4,364(pound	326-14	sh.)  for six  consecutive  years,  and	 thetrustees  agreed  to execute a declaration  of	trust.	 Thetrustees undertook to hold the said sums upon trust to spendthe  same in taking out a deferred -Annuity Policy with	 theNorwich	 Union	Life Insurance Society in the  name  of	 thetrustees but on the life of Harvey under which pound 720 perannum  were payable to Harvey for life from the date of	 hissuperannuation.	  It  was  also provided in  the  deed	thatnotwithstanding	 the main clause the trustees would,  if  sodesired by the assessee Company, take out instead a deferredlongest	 life  policy, with the said Insurance	Company,  intheir names, but in favour of Harvey and Mrs. Harvey for  anannuity	 of  pound 558-1-0 per annum  payable  during  theirjoint  lives  from the date of Harvey's	 superannuation	 andduring	the lifetime of the survivor, provided further	thatif Harvey died before he attained the age of 55 years the967annuity	 payable  to Mrs. Harvey would	be  pound,  611-12-0during her life.  It was further provided that should Harveydie before attaining the age of 55 years, the trustees wouldstand possessed of the capital value of the Deferred AnnuityPolicy,.  upon	trust to purchase therewith an	annuity	 forMrs.  Harvey with the above 2 Insurance Company	 or  anotherInsurance  Company of repute.  The other conditions  of	 thedeed  of trust need Dot be considered, because they  do	 notbear upon the controversy.In  furtherance of these presents, the trustees took  out  apolicy on January 12, 1949.  In addition to conditions usualin such policies, it provided for the following benefits:Amount	per  annum ofdeferred Annuitypound 563-5-8 p. a. if both   Mr. and Mrs. Harvey be  livingon September 20,1955.pound,	720-0-0	 p.  a.	 if  Mrs.Harvey	 should	 die  beforeSeptember 20, 1955, leaving Harvey surviving her.pound, 645-0-0 p. a. if Harvey should die before September 20,1955, leaving Mrs. Harvey surviving him.There was a specialprovision which must be reproduced:"  Provided  the  contract is in force	and  unreduced,	 theGrantees  (i.  e.,  the	 trustees)  shall  be  entitled	  tosurrender the Annuity on the Option Anniversary (i.e., Sept.20,  1955)  for the Capital sum of pound 10,169	 subject  towritten notice of the intention to surrender being  receivedby  the	 Directors  of the Society within  the	thirty	dayspreceding the Option Anniversary."Two  other clauses of the second schedule of the Policy	 mayalso be quoted:(III)	  "If  both  the  Nominees  shall  die	whilst	 theContract  remains  in force and unredressed and	 before	 theOption	Anniversary  the  said funds  and  Property  of	 theSociety shall be liable to make repayment to968the Grantees of a sum equal to a return of all the  premiumswhich  shall  have  been paid under  this  Contract  withoutinterest  after	 proof thereof and subject  as	hereinbeforeprovided.(IV) The  Grantees shall before the Option  Anniversary	 andafter  it  has	acquired a Surrender Value  be	entitled  tosurrender the Contract for a Cash Payment equal to a  returnof  all	 the premiums (at the yearly rate) which  have	beenpaid less the first year's premium or five per cent. of	 theCapital Sum specified in the Special Provision of the  FirstSchedule whichever shall be the lesser sum, provided that ifthe   Deferred	Annuity	 has  been  reduced  an	  equivalentreduction  in the guaranteed Surrender Value  as  calculatedabove will be made.  "The  assessee  Company paid the initial sum and	 the  yearlypremia for some years before Harvey died.  In the assessmentyears  1949-50, 1950-51, 1651-52 and 1952-53, it  claimed  adeduction  of these sums from its profits or gains under  s.10(2)(xv)  of the Indian Income-tax Act (hereinafter  calledthe Act), which provides:"  Such profits or gains shall be computed after making	 thefollowing allowances, namely,any  expenditure  (not	being  in  the	nature	of   capitalexpenditure  or personal expenses of the assessee) paid	 outor expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of	suchbusiness, profession or vocation.  "This  claim  was  disallowed  by  the  Department  and	 theAppellate  Tribunal.   The  Tribunal held that	it  was	 notnecessary  to  decide  if  the	expenditure  was  wholly  orexclusively for the purposes of the Company's business,	 andif  so, whether it was of a capital nature, because  in	 theTribunal's  opinion  there was no expenditure at  all.	 Thereason	why the Tribunal held this way may be stated in	 itsown words:" Clauses (1) and (II) do not contain any provision having amaterial bearing upon Clause (111).  Therefore if it happensthat  both  Mr. and Mrs. Harvey die before  20th  September,1955, all the payments till made through the Trustees to theInsurance  Society  will come back to the  Trustees  and  asthere is not the969slightest trace of any indication anywhere that the Trusteesshould have any beneficient interest in these moneys,  therewould  be  a  resultant trust in favour of  the	 Company  inrespect	 of the moneys thus far paid out.  In  other  words,what has been done amounts to a provision for a	 contingencywhich  may  never  arise.  Such a  provision  can  hardly betreated as payment to an employee whether of remuneration orpension	 or  gratuity,	and cannot  be	a  proper  deductionagainst the incoming of the business of the Company for	 thepurpose	 of computing its taxable profits.  In short,  therehas  been no expenditure by the Company yet; there has	beenonly an allocation of a part of its funds for an expenditurewhich may (or may not) have to be incurred in future.  "The  Tribunal, however, referred the  above-stated  questionfor  the opinion of the High Court.  The High Court  noticedthe limited scope of the question, and pointed out that	 theTribunal had stated at the end of the Statement of the Case:"  In the event of the High Court holding that there was  anexpenditure  in this case, it would still be  necessary	 forthe  Tribunal  whether the money was laid  out	or  expendedwholly	and  exclusively for the purposes of  the  assesses'business  and,	if so, whether the expenditure	was  in	 thenature of capital or revenue expenditure.  "The  learned  Chief  Justice  of  the  Calcutta	 High  Court(Sarkar,  J., concurring) felt the difficulty of  the  ques-tion.  He analysed the ingredients of cl. (xv), and  pointedout  that the question referred to but one such	 ingredient.The   Divisional  Bench,  however,  did	 not  call  for	  anadditional  statement of fact, or ask that the rest  of	 thematter	be  referred,  so that the  whole  of  the  questioninvolved might get disposed of It observed :"  This Court has always construed questions referred to  itwith a certain degree of strictness and has not allowed	 anypoint  to be canvassed before it which had not	been  raisedbefore	the Appellate Tribanal and which was not covered  bythe Tribunal's122970appellate  order.   I  am, therefore, of  opinion  that	 thequestion  should be taken as covering only the	ground	uponwhich the Tribunal held the payments to be not allowable  asdeductions as not embracing any other ground.  "   We must express our regret that the case  took the courseit  did.  The order of assessment was passed as far back  as1952, and seven years have now passed during which only	 onequestion  out  of three is before the Courts  for  decision.Section 10(2)(xv) was analysed by the learned Chief  Justicein these words:"  It will be noticed that three ingredients of	 the  clauselie  on	 the  surface  of its language.	  In  order  that  adeduction  may	be claimed under its provisions it  must  beproved	first that there was an expenditure, secondly,	thatthe  expenditure  was  not  in	the  nature  of	 a   capitalexpenditure-  I am leaving aside the personal  expenses-and,thirdly,  that	it  was	 laid out  or  expended	 wholly	 andexclusively for the purposes of the assessee's business-I amleaving out profession or vocation.  "We  must  not  be  understood  as  finding  fault  with	 theDivisional Bench.  It decided the question as framed.  It isthe  Tribunal  which  referred the question  in	 this  form,keeping	 to  itself  the right to  decide  about  the  otheringredients  of the clause later.  Whether the question	 canbe  answered in the bland form it is posed, is a  matter  towhich  we will have to address ourselves presently.  But  itappears	 to us that this is a very unsatisfactory way to  goabout the business.  Perhaps, the Tribunal decided this casein  this  way and referred the question it did,	 because  itfelt  that  if	this Court in Allahabad Bank  Ltd.  v.	Com-missioner of Income-tax, West Bengal (1) was able to  decidewhether	 a  particular	outlay was  '  expenditure'  withoutreference  to  the other ingredients of cl. (xv),  the	samecould  be done in this case also.  That case,  however,	 wasvery  different in its facts.  There, certain  contributionson trust for payment of pensions to employees were held	 notto be I expenditure', because on the original trust failing,the money was(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 195.971deemed	to be held by the trustees on a resulting trust	 forthe  benefit of the maker.  If the same can be said in	thiscase,  namely,	that the money continued to  belong  to	 theassessee  Company in the account years, its payment  to	 thetrustees or the Insurance Company notwithstanding, there maybe  a possibility of answering the question as was  done  inthe  decision  of this Court cited earlier.  But if  such  aclear-cut proposition cannot be laid down, then,  obviously,there  is  considerable	 difficulty in deciding	 what  is  Iexpenditure  ' within the clause, without reference  to	 therest  of its provisions.  Of course, to find the meaning  ofthe  word  I  expenditure ', a dictionary  is  ill  that  isneeded,	 but to go further and to decide whether the  outlayin  this case was I expenditure ', the context in which	 theword is used in the clause cannot successfully be left out.Mr.  Sampath  Iyengar for the  assessee	 Company  complainedbefore	us of the narrowness of the question, though  beforethe High Court be was opposed to any extension of the  ambitof the question.  The following passage from the judgment ofthe  Chief  Justice shows the respective  attitudes  of	 theDepartment and the assessee Company before the Bench:"  Mr. Meyer contended that language entitled him  to  arguenot only that there had been no expenditure in fact at	all,but  also  that	 even  assuming	 that  there  bad  been	  anexpenditure  in the sense of a physical spending, still	 theexpenditure was not such as could be claimed as an allowanceunder  the  clause  against  the  profits  of  the  relevantaccounting  year  in view of the fact that it  was,  in	 anyevent,	an expenditure made to meet a contingent  liability.Mr.  S.	 Iyengar, who appeared on behalf  of  the  assessee,objected to the scope of the question being so enlarged	 andhe referred to the appellate order of the Tribunal which hadproceeded on a single ground.  "The learned Attorney-General who appeared for the Departmentat  once conceded the difficulty of answering the  question,but contended that the question in its present form could beanswered,  though he agreed that if it could not, the  Courtwould be free to say so.972We  cannot  help saying that though the Tribunal may  be  atliberty	 to  decide a case as appears best to it,  there  isconsiderable hardship to the tax-payers, if questions of laware  decided piecemeal and repeated references to  the	HighCourt are necessary.  The jurisdiction of-the High Court  isadvisory  and consultative, and questions of  interpretationof  the	 law in this attenuated form can  well	be  avoided.This will tend to cut down the duration of litigation.In deciding that the payment of the lump sum and premia	 wasnot  'expenditure',  different views were expressed  as	 thecase  progressed.  The Income-tax Officer held that  in	 theabsence	 of a written agreement covering the  conditions  ofservice,  remuneration, etc., the arrangement could only  betaken as a provision for a gratuity, more so as there was  aprovision in the deed of trust for payment of an annuity  toMrs.  Harvey in the event of Harvey's demise.  According  tohim,  there  were so many alternative arrangements  for	 thedisbursement  of the money laid out, that it was  impossibleto say what shape the annuity would ultimately take and tillcertain	  events  happened,  the  I  expenditure'  was	 noteffective.   Following, therefore, the case in	Atherton  v.British	  Insulated   and  Helsby  Cables,  Ltd.   (1)	 anddistinguishing	 Hancock   v.	General	  Reversionary	 andInvestment  Co.	 Ltd.  (2),  the  claim	 for  deduction	 wasrejected by the Income-tax Officer.The Appellate Assistant Commissioner considered that in	 theabsence	 of an agreement the payment must be regarded as  anex gratia payment of a capital nature, so Iona as the  trustintervened.   The  Appellate  Assistant	 Commissioner	alsocommented  upon	 the  existence	 of  a	provision  for	Mrs.Harvey's pension which could not be a part of the agreement.He  was	 thus of the opinion that the case fell	 within	 therule laid down in Atherton',s case (1).	 This opinion of theTribunal  which	 has already been  reproduced  earlier,	 wasshortly	 that  there was no 'expenditure' yet and  this	 wasonly an allocation of funds for an I expenditure which mightor might not be incurred in the future.The High Court analysed the terms of the deed of(1) (1925) 10 Tax Cas. 155.(2) (1918) 7 Tax Cas. 358.973trust, and pointed out that there were two contingencies  inwhich  money was likely to revert to the  assessee  Company.The  first  contingency was if both Harvey and	Mrs.  Harveydied before September 20, 1955.	 The second contingency	 wasdue to an omission in el. (III) to provide for a pension  toHarvey, if Mrs. Harvey died before the above date.  In	thatevent,	the  trust would have failed, unless  a	 policy	 wastaken  out under 61. (II).  The High Court held that if	 anyof  these two circumstances happened, then there would	havebeen  a resulting trust in favour of the  assessee  Company,and  it would have been entitled to get back all  the  moneylaid out by it.	 We must say here that the High Court was inerror as to the second of the two contingencies because	 thepolicy	which  was  taken out provided	for  all  the  threealternatives,  and  pension was payable to  both  or  eithersurvivor, though in different sums.  Even in the trust deed,the  three  alternative pensions were provided	as  follows:pound  720, if the annuity was payable to Harvey  alone;  orpound  558-1-0, during the joint lives of both or  survivor;or  pound  611-12-0, to Mrs. Harvey if	Harvey	died  beforeSeptember  20, 1955.  The special provision in	the  policy,however,   covered  the	 first	contingency  of	  both	 theprospective annuitants dying before September 20, 1955,	 andif  that  happened, the assessee Company would have,  if  itchose  to  surrender the policy, got back the sum  of  pound10,169	subject	 to  a written notice of  the  intention  tosurrender  being  received by the Insurance  Company  withinthirty days preceding September 20, 1955.The High Court then observed in addition that there was no 'instant	 necessity ' for the expenditure, nor was the  money'laid  out for a business purpose of an instant	 character',nor  did  it bring in a 'present asset	which  would  alwaysremain	an  asset in that form, the money  having  gone	 forever'.	 The High Court pointed out that there was always  apossibility  ,of a resulting trust in favour of the  Companyand the money could not, therefore, be held to have been ex-pended.	  The conclusion of the High Court,  therefore,	 wasthat the assessee Company must be held to have974set  apart  I tentatively' a sum of money in order  that  itmight  be  available for the payment of a I  gratuity  '  toHarvey	and Mrs. Harvey, but there being I no provision	 forthe  application  of  the  money  in  the  event  of   thosecontingencies not occurring and no annuity being payable  toany  one',  there  was no I expenditure'  in  any  real	 andpractical sense of the term'.The arguments in this appeal have ranged, as they did beforethe  High Court, over a very wide field.  No useful  purposewill   be  served  in  following  them	through	 all   theirconvolutions.	The  main  points urged	 on  behalf  of	 theassessee   Company  are	 that  payment	of  pension  is	  anexpenditure  of a revenue character and so also the  paymentof  a  lump sum to get rid of a recurring liability  to	 paysuch pension.  This is illustrated from some English  cases,and  reference is made also to Ch.  IX-B of the Act.  It  isalso  submitted	 that in so far as payment by  the  assesseeCompany	 was concerned, it was, in point of fact, made,	 andthis was I expenditure' within the dictionary meaning of theword.	The  argument  of  the	Department  is	that  by   Iexpenditures  meant  a laying out of money  for	 an  accruedliability   and	 not  for  a  contingent  liability,   whichcontingency  may  or may not take place;  that	the  presentarrangement  was  only	a  setting  apart  of  money  for  aContingent  liability  and till the liability  became  real,there  was no expenditure.  The assessee  Company,  however,contends  that expenditure on insurance is  not	 contingent,because	 though the contingency relates to life and  dependson  it,	 the  probabilities are	 great	being  estimated  onactuarial  calculations and the expenditure is	real.	Bothsides rely on a large number of English decisions.  We shallnow  consider  the arguments in detail and  refer  to  thoseauthorities, which are relevant.In  dealing with cases expounding the English  In.  come-taxlaw,  it  must always be borne in mind that  the  scheme  oflegislation  there  is not the same as in our  country.	  Nodoubt, a certain amount of assistance can, with caution,  betaken from them, but the' problems under our Income-tax lawsmust  be resolved, in the ultimate analysis, with  referenceto our laws.975It  has been ruled under the English statute that sums	paidto  an	employee as pension or gratuity	 are  deductible  asmoney  laid  out  and expended for  the	 purpose  of  trade,profession  or vocation.  See Smith v. Incorporated  Councilof  Law	 Reporting for England and Wales (1).  It  has	alsobeen  ruled  that a single payment to  avoid  the  recurringliability  of  an  employee's  pension	is  also  a   properdeduction.   The leading case on the subject is	 Hancock  v.General	 Reversionary and Investment Co. Ltd. (1).  In	thatcase, the taxpayer was under a liability to pay a pension toa  retired actuary, and pension had, in fact, been paid	 forsome  years.   Subsequently,  the  tax-payer  purchased	  anannuity for the employee, which he accepted in place of	 hispension.  The sum paid in purchasing the annuity was allowedas  a  deduction in computing the  tax-payer's	profits,  itbeing held that it was money wholly and exclusively laid outor  expended  for the purposes of the trade,  profession  orvocation.On the other hand, a sum which a company put into a fund forthe  relief  of	 invalidity, etc., was held  not  to  be  anadmissible   deduction,	  and  the  case  last	 cited	 wasdistinguished.	 See  Rowntree, & Co. Ltd.  v.	Curtis	(3).Pollock, M. R., drew pointed attention to the words of Lush,J., in the earlier case, where lie observed at p. 698:-"It  seems tome as impossible to hold that the fact  that  alump  sum was paid instead of a recurring series  of  annualpayments  alters  the character of the	expenditure,  as  itwould  be  to  hold that, if an employer  made	a  voluntaryarrangement  with  his servant to pay the servant  a  year'ssalary in advance instead of paying each year's salary as itfell due, he would be making a capital outlay.",and added that Lush, J., had described the actuarial paymentmade  in  Hancock's case (2) as a pension in  another  form,which could not be said of the invalidity, claims for  whichwere wholly uncertain.	Warrington, L. J., pointed out	thatthe test to apply was first(1)  [1914] 3 K. B. 574 ; 6 Tax Cas. 477.(2)  (1918) 7 Tax Cas. 358.(3)  [1925] 1 K. B. 328; 8 Tax Cas. 678.976whether	 there was an expenditure which he held	 there	was,and  next  whether  it	could  be  said	 to  be	 wholly	 andexclusively  for  the purposes of the trade  which,  in	 hisopinion, could not be said of the expenditure in that  case.The  words  of	the  learned  Lord  Justice  on	 'the  firstproposition have a bearing upon the present case, and may bereproduced here(at p. 703) :I  am  inclined to agree with Mr. Latter in  his  contentionthat the money has actually been expended. There is  nothinglike  a	 resulting trust in favour of the  company  althoughthere  is  that	 provision  which  I  have  already   calledattention to in the trust deed, that one of the things whichmight  be done would be to abrogate altogether the trust  orthe provisions of the deed and to substitute other rules andprovisions.  But it seems to me that cannot be said to be  aresulting  trust in favour of the company having  regard  tothe  other objects which are pointed out as those  to  whichthe scheme was directed."Similarly,  a  sum of money paid to the trustees to  form  anucleus	 of  a pension fund for the benefit of some  of	 itsemployees by a company was also not held to be an admissiblededuction  in  Atherton's case (1).  Viscount Cave,  L.	 C.,recalled  the test laid down in a rough way by Lord  Dunedinin Vallambrosa Rubber Co. v. Farmer (2) (at p. 192) that,capital	 expenditure  is a thing that is going to  be  spentonce and for all and income expenditure is a thing which  isgoing  to recur every year " but added that it was  not	 andwas  not meant to be a decisive test.  The  Lord  Chancellorobserved, however, that,"  when an expenditure is made, not only once and  for	all,but  with a view to bringing into existence an asset  or  anadvantage for the enduring benefit of a trade, I think	thatthere  is  very	 good  reason (in  the	absence	 of  specialcircumstances	leading	 to  an	 opposite  conclusion)	 fortreating such an expenditure as properly attributable not torevenue but to capital."(1)  (1925) 10 Tax Cas. 155.(2)  (1910) 5 Tax Cas. 529.977Again,	in Morgan Crucible Co. Ltd. v. The Commissioners  ofInland	Revenue (1), the payment to an insurance company  totake  out  a  policy  was  held	 not  to  be  an  admissiblededuction.  There, the company operated a scheme for paymentof pensions to retired or incapacitated employees, reservingto  itself  the	 uncontrolled discretion to  vary  or  ceasepayment	 of  pensions.	When pensions were paid,  they	werededucted  -but when the company took out a policy,  without,informing   their  employees,  for  payment  to	 itself	  ofannuities  equal to the pensions, it was held that  by	thisthe company had acquired an asset and this was in the natureof   a	capital	 asset.	  Rowlatt,  J.,	 in   distinguishingHancock's  case	 (2),  observed that unlike  that  case	 theliability  to pay pensions was not got rid of and  that	 thecompany had acquired an asset.	The learned Judge  continued(at p. 317):"  It is true they have got an asset which would give  them,in all probability, nothing on balance, because they use  itto pay these pensions; but they have got an asset; they	 hadnot  any  pension fund to pay these pensions with,  and	 nowthey have got an insurance company which will in the  futurenot  extinguish	 the liability but countervail it  and	theyhave got the command of this policy to the extent that	theyare entitled to get their capital money say ' capital  money'  without  prejudice-back  from the  insurance	 company  onsurrendering the policies."From these cases, there are deducible certain principles  ofa   fundamental	 character.   The  first  is  that   capitalexpenditure cannot be attributed to revenue and vice  versa.Secondly,  it is equally clear that a payment in a lump	 sumdoes not necessarily make the payment a capital one.  It maystill possess- revenue character in the same way as a seriesof  payments.  Thirdly, if there is a lump sum	payment	 butthere is no possibility of a recurrence, it is probably of acapital nature, though this is by no means a decisive  test.Fourthly, if the payment of a lump sum closes the(1)  [1932] 2 K. B. 185 ; 17 Tax Cas. 311, 317.(2)  (1918) 7 Tax Cas. 358.123978liability  to  make repeated and periodic  payments  in	 thefuture,	 it  may  generally be regarded as a  payment  of  arevenue character (Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd. v. Dale)	(1),and  lastly, if the ownership of the money whether in  pointof fact or by a resulting trust be still  in the  tax-payer,then  there  is acquisition of a capital asset	and  not  anexpenditure of a revenue character.Side  by side with these principles, there are others  whichare also fundamental.  The Income-tax law does not allow  asexpenses  all the deductions a prudent trader would make  incomputing his profits.	The money may be expended on groundsof commercial expediency but not of necessity.	The test  ofnecessity  is  whether	the intention was  to  earn  tradingreceipts or to avoid future recurring payments of a  revenuecharacter.    Expenditure   in	this  sense  is	  equal	  todisbursement which, to use a homely phrase, means  somethingwhich  comes out of the trader's pocket.  Thus,	 in  findingout  what profits there be, the normal accountancy  Practicemay be to allow as expense any sum in respect of liabilitieswhich have accrued over the accounting period and to  deductsuch sums from profits.	 But the Income-tax laws do not takeevery  such allowance as legitimate for purposes of tax.   Adistinction is made between an actual liability in praesentiand a liability de futuro which, for the time being, is onlycontingent.   The former is deductible but not	the  latter.The  case  which  illustrates  this  distinction  is   PeterMerchant  Ltd.	v. Stedeford (2).  No doubt, that  case	 wasdecided	 under	the system of Income-tax laws  prevalent  inEngland,  but  the,  distinction is real.   What  a  prudenttrader sets apart to meet a liability, not actually  presentbut  only contingent, cannot bear the character	 of  expensetill the liability becomes real.We may here refer to two other cases.  In Alexander Howard &Co.  Ltd  v.  Bentley (3), a business  of  blouse  and	gownmanufacture  was carried on by one A. C. Howard.  His  threebrothers were employed by him as salaried managers.  In 1933A. C. Howard remarried(1)  [1932] 1 K. B. 124; 16 Tax Cas. 253.(2)  (1948) 30 Tax Cas. 496.(3) (1948) 30 Tax Cas. 334.979and  under pressure from his brothers a company	 was  formedand the directors were authorised to enter into an agreementto  purchase the business.  A. C. Howard was  the  governingdirector  of the company and his three	brothers,  permanentdirectors.    The  company  also  entered  into	 a   serviceagreement with them, and Art.  107 thereof provided :"  After the death of the said Alexander Charles Howard	 andduring	such.  time as his  legal  personal  representativesshall hold at least Ten Thousand Shares in the Company,	 anywidow surviving him shall receive out of the profits of	 theCompany	 an annuity of One Thousand Pounds per annum  duringher life."This service agreement was executed on January 3, 1934.	  In1943  by  a  deed of release A. C. Howard  released  to	 thecompany	 all right to a claim in respect of the	 annuity  inconsideration of the payment to him of a sum of pound 4,500.This amount was based upon the findings of an actuary.	 Thetaxpayer  submitted that the sum paid in redemption  of	 theannuity	 was  a	 proper	 charge	 against  revenue,  and	 wasdeductible.   The Commissioners held against the company  ontwo main grounds.  They held that in order to decide whetherthe  sum paid to obtain release of the annuity was  properlyallowable  as a deduction, they had to decide first  whetherthe  annuity itself would have been properly  chargeable  torevenue,  (Anglo-Persian Oil Co.  Ltd. v. Dale (1) and	Beanv. Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries Ltd. (2) per Lord  Simonat  pp. 311-312); and they held next that the redemption  ofthe  annuity freed the company from a  contingent  liabilityand   the  company  had.  thus	secured	 only  an   enduringadvantage.Singleton, J., before whom the case came in appeal, affirmedthe decision.  He pointed out that this was not a case of  acompany	 providing an annuity or pension for an employee,  "for  "	(to quote him) " the wife of Mr.  Alexander  CharlesHoward	had nothing whatever to do with the Company  ".	 If,therefore,(1)  [1932] 1 K. B. 124; 16 Tax Cas. 253.(2)  (1946) 27 Tax CaS. 296.980the original annuity was not chargeable to revenue, the	 sumof pound 4,500 paid to avoid it, could not also be.The other case is Southern Railway of Peru Ltd. v. Owen (1).In  that  case,	 the English company was  bound	 to  providecompensation  to  all its employees on	the  termination  oftheir services.	 Legislation to this effect was deemed to bea  part	 of the contract of service.  Such  right  arose  ondismissal  or  on  termination	of  the	 employment  by	 theemployer  after	 proper	 notice.  The  compensation  was  anamount	equal  to  one	month's salary	for  every  year  ofservice.   There  were, however,  certain  exceptions  underwhich the compensation was not payable.	 The company  soughtto deduct an amount equal to the burden cast on it each yearbut  the  claim was refused.  It was held by  majority	thatthough	'the  company  was entitled to	charge	against	 oneyear's	receipts  the  cost  of	 making	 provision  for	 theretirement payments which would ultimately be payable as  ithad the benefit of the employees services during that  year,provided  the present value of the future payments could  befairly estimated ', since the factor of discount was ignoredin making the deduction, the claim could not be entertained.These  two  cases  illustrate  the  propositions  that	 therecurring liability of a pension which is compressed into  alump payment should itself be a legal obligation, and  that,if  contingent,	 the present value of  the  future  paymentsshould	be fairly estimable.  If the pension itself  be	 notpayable as an obligation, and if there be a possibility thatno such payment may be necessary in the future, the whole ofthe amount cannot be deducted but only the present value  ofthe  future  liability,	 if  it can  be	 estimated.   It  issignificant  that the case in Sun Insurance Office v.  Clark(2) was applied to the last corollary.So  far,  we have dealt with the principles  which  underlieleading cases decided in England, some of which were in	 theforefront of the arguments.  We have already stated that theEnglish decisions should be read with considerable  caution.Under  the  English Income-tax Act, the law is stated  in  anegative(I) [1957] A.C. 334.(2) [1912] A.C. 443.981form.	Section 137 of 15 & 16, Geo. 6 & I Eliz. 2,  c.	 10,which  prescribes the general rules regarding deductions  isexpressed  in the negative, and r. (a) which was  applicableto the cited cases reads as follows:"  Subject to the provisions of this Act, in  computing	 theprofits	 or gains to be charged under Case I The Case 11  ofschedule D, no sum shall be deducted in respect of-(a)  any  disbursements or expenses, not being money  whollyand exclusively laid out or expended for the purposes of thetrade,	profession  or vocation." In  these  several  cases,emphasis  was  sometimes  laid on the  words  "	 wholly	 andexclusively  ",	 sometimes on " laid out or expended  "	 andsometimes on " for the purposes of the trade...". It was thenature of the liability or the time of payment or the  valueof  the payment or all of them which determined whether	 theamount should be deducted or not.Clause	(xv)  of  s. 10(2) of the Act,	with  which  we	 areconcerned, reads as follows:10.  " Business-(1) The tax shall be payable by an  assesseeunder  the head I Profits and gains of business,  professionor  vocation'  in  respect of the profits or  gains  of	 anybusiness, profession or vocation carried on by him.(2)  Such  profits or gains shall be computed  after  makingthe following allowances, namely-(xv) any  expenditure not being an allowance of	 the  naturedescribed in any of the clauses (i) to (xiv) inclusive,	 andnot  being in the nature of capital expenditure or  personalexpenses  of  the assessee laid out or expended	 wholly	 andexclusively for the purpose of such business, profession  orvocation."This section, though it enacts affirmatively what is  statedin   the   negative  form  in  the   English   statute,	  issubstantially in pari materia with the English enactment andwould have justified our considering the English authoritiesas aids to the interpretation thereofBut  there is no case directly on what is I expenditure	 andif the authorities under the English statute982were  to  be  of real assistance, the whole  of	 the  mattershould	have been before us.  The question, however,  limitsthe  approach  to  whether the	payments  made	towards	 thepolicy	were expenditure within cl.(xv). I  Expenditure'  isequal  to  I  expense' and 'expense' is money  laid  out  bycalculation  and intention though in many uses of  the	wordthis element may not be present, as when we speak of a	jokeat  another's expense.	But the idea of I spending'  in	 thesense of I paying out or away' money is the primary  meaningand  it	 is  with that meaning that  we	 are  concerned.   IExpenditure' is thus what is 'paid out or away' and is some-thing which is gone irretrievably.To  be an allowance within cl. (xv), the money paid  out  oraway  must  be (a) paid out wholly and exclusively  for	 thepurpose	 of  the business and further (b) must	not  be	 (i)capital	 expenditure,  (ii) -personal expense  or  (iii)  anallowance  of the character described in cls. (i) to  (xiv).But whatever the character of the expenditure, it must be  apaying	out  or away, - and we are not	concerned  with	 theother  qualifying aspects of such expenditure stated in	 theclause either affirmatively or negatively.So,  the question is whether in a business sense the  amountwas  spent, that. is to say, paid out or away.	 To  discussthis, we must go to the terms of the policy.No  doubt, under the general terms of the policy an  annuitywas  to be provided for the Harveys.  We are  not  concernedwith Mrs. Harvey, because she had no claim to the annuity orpension any more than Mrs. Howard bad in Alexander Howard  &Co.  Ltd. v. Bentley (1) already discussed by us  elsewhere.That consideration involves a finding on whether an  annuityto  Mrs. Harvey was an expense made wholly  and	 exclusivelyfor  the purpose of the business, and that is not  a  matteropen to us by the limited question posed.  In any event, the-provision  for a pension or annuity to Mrs.  Harvey  cannotrank higher than an annuity to Harvey, and the matter can beconsidered  on the limited aspect that a pension or  annuityto Harvey was also contemplated.(1)  (1948) 3o Tax Cas, 334.983In the years of account the assessee Company did hand out tothe  trustees,	the  sums of money for	which  deduction  isclaimed.  But was the money spent in so far as the  assesseeCompany was concerned ? Harvey was then alive and it was notknown if any pension to him would be payable at	 all.'Harveymight not have the lived to be 55 years.  He might even haveabandoned c his service or might have been dismissed.	TillSeptember  20,	1955,  the  assessee  Company  had  dominionthrough	 the grantees over the premia paid, at least in	 twocircumstances.	 They  are  to	be  found  in  the   specialprovision,  and the third clause of the second	schedule  ofthe policy.  These provisions have been quoted already,	 butmay again be reproduced:" Special provision:Provided  the  contract	 is  in	 force	and  unseduced,	 theGrantees  shall be entitled to surrender the Annuity on	 theOption	Anniversary  for  the Capital sum  of  pound  10,169subject	 to  written notice of the  intention  to  surrenderbeing  received by the Directors of the Society	 within	 thethirty days preceding the Option Anniversary." -Cl.  (III):  "	If both the Nominees shall  die	 whilst	 theContract  remains  in  force and unreduced  and	 before	 theOption	Anniversary  the  said funds  and  Property  of	 theSociety shall be liable to make repayment to the Grantees ofa sum equal to a return of all the premiums which shall havebeen  paid under this Contract without interest after  proofthereof and subject as hereinbefore provided."To be a payment which is made irrevocably there should be nopossibility of the money forming, once again, a part of	 thefunds  of  the assessee Company.  If this condition  be	 notfulfilled  and	there  is a possibility	 of  there  being  aresulting trust in favour of the Company, then the money hasnot been spent, i. e., paid out or away, but the amount mustbe  treated as set apart to meet a contingency.	 There is  adistinction  between  a contingent liability and  a  paymentdepending  upon a contingency.	The question is	 whether  inthe  years  of	account,  one  can  describe  the   assesseeCompany's liability as contingent or merely depending984upon  a	 contingency.	In our opinion,	 the  liability	 wascontingent and not merely depending upon a contingency.That such a distinction is real was laid down in the  speechof  Lord Oaksey in Southern Railway of Peru	Ltd. v. Owen(1),  and  was recognised generally in the speeches  of	 theother Law Lords.  Now, the question is what is the effect ofthe I payment of premia in the	 present case ?Learned counsel for the assessee Company referred us to	 theprovisions of Chapter IX-B of the Act, particularly ss. 58R,58S  and 58V thereof.  We regret we are not able to see	 bowthese  provisions help in the matter.  We are not  concernedwith  the provisions of this Chapter, because the  allowancedoes not fall within any of the provisions, and we have onlyto decide the question whether the amounts -paid to purchasethe policy involved an expenditure in the accounting years.Next  learned  counsel relied upon Joseph v.  Law  IntegrityInsurance Company, Limited (2), Prudential Insurance Companyv.  Inland  Revenue Commissioners (3 ) and  In	re  NationalStandard  Life Assurance Corporation (4) to show that  therewas  no contingent liability but a liability depending on  acontingency, namely, the duration of life, the probabilitiesof  which  were	 estimated on  actuarial  calculations.	  Nodoubt, these cases deal with insurance of human life but theobservations therein are not material here.  In the first ofthese  cases,  it was held that the kind of  policies  whichwere  issued were policies of insurance on human lives,	 andthat  the  company  was carrying on  the  business  of	lifeinsurance contrary to its memorandum of association and	 thepolicies  were ultra vires the company.	 The  policies	werealso  illegal  within s. I of the Assurance  Companies	Act,1909..	In this context, the definition that I a  policy  oflife insurance' means I any instrument by which the  paymentof  monies, by or out of the funds of an assurance  company,on the(1)  [1957] A.C. 334.(3)  [1904] 2 K.B. 658.(2)  [1912] 2 Ch. 581.(4)  [1918] 1 Ch. 427, 430.985happening  of any contingency depending on the	duration  ofhuman  life,  is  assured or secured was  referred  to.	 Thepolicies  issued by the company, though ostensibly called  Iinvestment  policies' were held to be really life  insurancepolicies.  The next case arose under s. 98 of the Stamp Act,1891.	 It   was  held	 that	 a  contract   by   which inconsideration  of  the	payment	 by a  person  of  a  weeklypremium,  a sum certain was payable to him on his  attainingthe  age  of  65 or, in the event of his  dying	 earlier,  Asmaller sum was to be paid to his executors, was a policy ofinsurance  upon a contingency depending upon a	life  withinthe meaning of the section.  In the last case, the  questionarose under s. 30 of the Assurance Companies Act, 1909,	 andit  was decided that a certificate-holder held a  policy  onhuman  life  because  money  was payable  not  only  at	 theexpiration  of	a certain number of years but  all  premiumswere   repayable  in  the  event  of  death  to	 the   legalrepresentative.These cases may help to determine the nature of the contractwith the insurance company but cannot help in the solving ofthe  question whether the payments to the insurance  companywere expenditure.  That insurance of human lives involves  acontingency relating to the duration of human life is a verydifferent proposition from the question whether the  paymentin the present case to the trustees was towards a contingentliability or towards a liability depending on a contingency.In  our opinion, the payment was not merely  contingent	 butthe liability itself was also contingent.  Expenditure whichis  deductible	for  income-tax purposes  is  one  which  istowards	 a liability actually existing at the time, but	 theputting	 aside of money which may become expenditure on	 thehappening  of an event is not expenditure.  In	the  presentcase, nothing more was done in the account years.  The moneywas  placed  in the hands of trustees and/or  the  insurancecompany	 to  purchase  annuities  of  different	 kinds,	  ifrequired,  but	to  be returned if the	annuities  were	 notbought and124986the setting apart of the money was not a paying out or	awayof these sums irretrievably.In  our opinion, the question was correctly answered by	 theCalcutta High Court.  We, therefore, dismiss the appeal withcosts.Appeal dismissed.