PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAY CITY II	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI SITALDAS TIRATHDASDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/11/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.KAPUR, J.L.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  728		  1961 SCR  (2) 634 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1059	 (6,7) F	    1967 SC 383	 (9,10) R	    1969 SC1160	 (7) RF	    1972 SC 404	 (17) F	    1976 SC1973	 (4) R	    1977 SC1343	 (5) R	    1977 SC1523	 (30) RF	    1977 SC1657	 (8) F	    1989 SC1443	 (8)ACT:Income-tax--Maintenance payable to wife and children underdecree--Whether deductible from total income.HEADNOTE:A  consent decree was passed against the  assessee  awardingmaintenance  to his wife and children.	The decree  did	 notcreate	any  charge upon the income of	the  assessee.	 Theassessee  claimed in the assessment of income tax  deductionof the amount paid under the decree from his total income.Held,  that the assessee was not entitled to the  deduction.Where by the obligation income was diverted by an overridingtitle before it reached the assessee, it was deductible; butwhere the income was required to be applied to discharge  anobligation  after such income reached the assessee,  it	 wasnot deductible.	 The true test was whether the amount soughtto be deducted, in truth, never reached the assessee as	 hisincome.	  In the present case, the wife and children of	 theassessee  received a portion of the income of the  assessee,after the assessee had received the income as his own.Bejoy Singh Dudhuria v. Commissioner of Income-tax, (1933) II.T.R. 135, not applicable.P. C. Mullick v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bengal,  (1938)6 I.T.R. 206, applied.Diwan  Kishen Kishore v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  (1933)11  I.T.R. 143, Seth Motilal Menekchand v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  (1957) 31 I.T.R. 735, Prince Khanderao  Gaekwayv.  Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  (1948)  16  I.T.R.	294,Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay v. Makanji Lalji,  (1937)5  I.T.R. 539, Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay V.  D.  R.Naik,  (1939)  7 I.T.R. 362, D. C. Aich, It;  re,  (1940)  9I.T.R. 236, Hira Lal, In re, (1945) 13 I.T.R. 512 and V.  M.Raghavalu Naidu & Sons v. Commissioner of Income-tax, (1950)18 I.T.R. 787, referred toJUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Appeal No.  528, of 1959.Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 20, 1957,of the former Bombay High Court in I.T.R. No. 15 of 1957.Hardayal Hardy	and D. Gupta, for the appellant.R. J. Kolah, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar	Nathand P. L. Vohra, for the respondent.6351960.  November 24.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyHIDAYATULLAH, J.-The Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay City11, has filed this appeal with a certificate under s. 66A(2)of the Income-tax Act, against the judgment and order of theHigh Court of Bombay dated September 20, 1957, in Income-taxReference No. 15 of 1957.The  question referred to the High Court for its opinion  bythe Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay was:"Whether  the  assessee is entitled to a  deduction  of	 Rs.1,350  and Rs. 18,000 from his total income of the  previousyear relevant to the assessment years, 1953-54, 1954-55?"The assessee, Sitaldas Tirathdas of Bombay, has many sourcesof  income,  chief  among them being  property,	 stocks	 andshares,	 bank deposits and share in a firm known as  Messrs.Sitaldas  Tirathdas.  He follows the financial year  as	 hisaccounting year.  For the assessment years 1953-54 and 1954-55, his total income was respectively computed at Rs. 50,375and  Rs. 55,160.  This computation was not disputed by	him,but he sought to deduct therefrom a sum of Rs. 1,350 in	 thefirst assessment year and a sum of Rs. 18,000 in the  secondassessment  year  on the ground that under a decree  he	 wasrequired  to pay these sums as maintenance to his wife,	 BaiDeviben and his children.  The suit was filed in the  BombayHigh Court (Suit No. 102 of 1951) for maintenance allowance,separate  residence and marriage expenses for the  daughtersand  for arrears of maintenance, etc.  A decree	 by  consentwas  passed on March 11, 1953, and maintenance allowance  ofRs.  1,500  per	 month was decreed  against  him.   For	 theaccount	 year  ending March 31, 1953 only  one	payment	 wasmade,  and deducting Rs. 150 per month as the rent  for	 theflat  occupied by his wife and children, the amount paid  asmaintenance  under  the decree came to Rs. 1,350.   For	 thesecond year, the maintenance at Rs. 1,500 per month came  toRs. 18,000 which was claimed as a deduction.636No  charge on the property was created, and the matter	doesnot  fall to be considered under s. 9(1)(iv) of the  Income-tax  Act.  The assessee, however, claimed this deduction  onthe strength of a ruling of the Privy Council in Bejoy SinghDudhuria v. Commissioner of Income-tax (1).  This contentionof  the assesses was disallowed by the	Income-tax  Officer,whose  decision	 was  affirmed on appeal  by  the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner.   On further appeal,  the  Tribunalobserved:"This  is  a  case, pure and simple, where  an	assessee  iscompelled  to  apply  a	 portion  of  his  income  for	 themaintenance of persons whom he is under a personal and legalobligation to maintain.	 The Income-tax Act does not  permitof   any   deduction   from  the  total	  income   in	suchcircumstances."The  Tribunal  mentioned in the statement of the  case	thatcounsel for the assessee put his contention in the followingwords:"I  claim  a deduction of this amount from my  total  incomebecause my real total income is whatever that is " computed,which  I  do not dispute, less the maintenance	amount	paidunder the decree."The assessee appears to have relied also upon a decision  ofthe   Lahore   High  Court  in	Diwan  Kishen	Kishore	  v.Commissioner  of  Income-tax(2).   The	Tribunal,   however,referred  the  above question for the opinion  of  the	HighCourt.The  High Court followed two earlier decisions of  the	sameCourt reported in Seth Motilal Manekchand v. Commissioner ofIncome-tax (3) and Prince Khanderao Gaekwar v.	Commissionerof  Income-tax (4), and held that, as observed in those	 twocases,	the  test  was the same, even though  there  was  nospecific  charge  upon	property so long  as  there  was  anobligation upon the assessee to pay, which could be enforeedin  a  Court of law.  In Bejoy Singh  Dudhuria's  case	(1),there  was  a  charge for maintenance  created	against	 theassessee, and the Privy Council had observed that the incomemust be deemed to have never reached that assessee,(1)  (1933) 1 I.T.R. 135.(3)  (1957) 31 I.T.R. 735.(2)  (1933) 1 I.T.R. 143.(4)  (1948) 16 I.T.R. 294.637having	been  diverted to the maintenance-holders.   In	 thejudgment  under appeal, it was held that the income  to	 theextent of the decree must be taken to have been diverted  tothe wife and children, and never became income in the  handsof the assessee.The Commissioner of Income-tax questions the correctness  ofthis  decision and also of the two earlier decisions of	 theBombay	High Court.  We are of opinion that  the  contentionraised by the Department is correct.Before	we  state the principle on which  this	and  similarcases  are to be decided, we may refer to  certain  rulings,which illustrate the aspects the problem takes.	 The leadingcase  on  the  subject	is  the	 decision  of  the  JudicialCommittee  in  Bejoy Singh Dudhuria's case(1).	 There,	 thestepmother  of the Raja had brought a suit  for	 maintenanceand   a	 compromise  decree  was  passed  under	 which	 thestepmother was to be paid Rs. 1,100 per month, which  amountwas  declared a charge upon the properties in the  hands  ofthe  Raja,  by the Court.  The Raja sought  to	deduct	thisamount	from his assessable income, which was disallowed  bythe High Court at Calcutta.  On appeal to the Privy Council,Lord Macmillan observed as follows:"But  their Lordships do not agree -with the  learned  ChiefJustice	 in his rejection of the view that the sums paid  bythe  appellant to his step-mother were not 'income'  of	 theappellant  at all.  This in their Lordships' opinion is	 thetrue view of the matter.When the Act by Section 3 subjects to charge 'all income' ofan  individual, it is what reaches the individual as  incomewhich  it  is intended to charge.  In the present  case	 thedecree	of  the	 court by  charging  the  appellant's  wholeresources with a specific payment to his step-mother has  tothat extent diverted his income from him and has directed itto  his stepmother; to that extent what he receives for	 heris  not his income.  It is not a case of the application  bythe appellant of part of his income in a particular way,  itis rather the allocation of a sum out of his revenue  beforeit becomes income in his hands."(1)  (1933) 1 I.T.R. 135.81638Another	 case of the Privy Council may well be seen in	thisconnection.   That  case  is reported in P.  C.	 Mullick  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax, Bengal (1).  There, a  testatorappointed  the appellants as executors and directed them  topay  Rs.  10,000 out of the income on the  occasion  of	 hisaddya  sradh.	The  executors	paid  Rs.  5,537  for	suchexpenses,   and	 sought	 to  deduct  the  amount  from	 theassessable  income.   The Judicial Committee  confirmed	 thedecision   of  the  Calcutta  High  Court  disallowing	 thededuction,  and observed that the payments were made out  ofthe  income  of	 the  estate coming  to	 the  hands  of	 theexecutors  and	in pursuance of an obligation  imposed	uponthem by the testator.  It observed that it was not a case inwhich a portion of the income had been diverted by an  over-riding	title  from the person who would  have	received  itotherwise,  and	 distinguished	the  case  in  Bejoy   SinghDudhuria's case (2).These  cases have been diversely applied in India,  but	 thefacts  of  some	 of  the cases	bring  out  the	 distinctionclearly.  In Diwan Kishen Kishore v. Commissioner of Income-tax (3), there was an impartible estate governed by the	 lawof  primogeniture,  and under the custom applicable  to	 thefamily,	 an  allowance	was payable to	the  junior  member.Under  an award given by the Deputy Commissioner  acting  asarbitrator  and according to the will of the father  of	 theholder	of  the estate and the junior member, a sum  of	 Rs.7,200  per  year  was payable to the  junior  member.	Thisamount was sought to be deducted on the ground that it was anecessary  and obligatory payment, and that  the  assessableincome must, therefore, be taken to be pro tanto diminished.It  was	 held  that the income never became a  part  of	 theincome of the family or of the eldest member but was a	kindof  a  charge  on the estate.  The allowance  given  to	 thejunior	member,	 it was held, in the case of  an  impartibleestate was the separate property of the younger member	uponwhich  he could be assessed and the rule that  an  allowancegiven  by the head of a Hindu coparcenary to its members  byway of maintenance was liable to be assessed(1) (1938) 6 I.T.R. 206.	(2) (1933) 1 I.T.R. 135.(3) (1933) 1 I.T.R. 143.639as  the	 income of the family, had no application.   It	 wasalso  observed	that  if the estate had	 been  partible	 andpartition could have taken place, the payment to the  juniormember	out of the coparcenary funds would have stood  on  adifferent footing.  In that case, the payment to the  juniormember	was a kind of a charge which diverted a	 portion  ofthe income from the assessee to the junior member in such  away  that it could not be said that it became the income  ofthe assessee.In Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay v. Makanji Lalji	(1),it  was	 stated	 that in computing the	income	of  a  Hinduundivided  family  monies paid to the widow  of	 a  deceasedcoparcener  of	the  family  as	 maintenance  could  not  bededucted,  even	 though the amount of maintenance  had	beendecreed	 by  the  Court and had been made a  charge  on	 theproperties  belonging to the family.  This case is  open  toserious	 doubt, because it falls within the rule  stated  inBejoy  Singh Dudhuria's case (2); and though the High  Courtdistinguished the case of the Judicial Committee, it appearsthat  it was distinguished on a ground not  truly  relevant,namely,	 that  in  Bejoy  Singh	 Dudhuria's  case  (2)	 theAdvocateGeneral	 had abandoned the plea that the  stepmotherwas  still a member of the undivided Hindu family.   It	 wasalso  pointed out that this was a case of assessment  as  anindividual  and	 not  an assessment  of	 a  Hindu  undividedfamily.In Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay v. D. R. Naik (3), theassessee was the sole surviving member of a Hindu  undividedfamily.	  There was a decree of Court by which the  assesseewas  entitled to receive properties as a residuary  legatee,subject,  however,  to certain payments	 of  maintenance  towidows.	  The widows continued to be members of the  family.It  was held that though s. 9 of the Income-tax Act did	 notapply, the assessee's assessable income was only the balanceleft  after payment of the maintenance charges.	 It  appearsfrom the facts of the case, however, that there was a chargefor the maintenance(1) (1937) 5 I.T.R. 539.      (2) (1933) 1 I.T.R. 135.(3) (1939) 7 I.T.R. 362.640upon the properties of the assessee.  This case also  bringsout  correctly	the  principles laid down  by  the  JudicialCommittee  that if there be an overriding  obligation  whichcreates a charge and diverts the income to some one else,  adeduction can be made of the amounts so paid.The last case may be contrasted with the case reported in P.C.  Mullick and D. C. Aich, In re(1).  There, under  a	willcertain payments had to be made to the beneficiaries.  Thesepayments  were	to be made gradually together  with  certainother  annuities.  It was held that the payments could	onlybe  made  out of the income received by	 the  executors	 andtrustees  from the property, and the sum was  assessable  toincome-tax  in the hands of the executors.  It	was  pointedout that under the wilt it was stated that the amounts	wereto  be	paid "out of the income of my property",  and  thus,what  had been charged was the income of the assessees,	 theexecutors.   The  case is in line with the decision  of	 thePrivy Council in P. C.	Mullick v. Commissioner	 of  Income-tax,  Bengal(2).  In Hira Lal, In re,(3) there was  a  jointHindu family, and under two awards made by arbitrators whichwere  made  into a rule of the	Court,	certain	 maintenanceallowances were payable to the widows.	These payments	werealso  made  a charge upon the property.	 It  was  held	thatinasmuch  as the payments were obligatory and subject to  anoverriding  charge  they must be excluded.   Here  too,	 theamount payable to the widows was diverted from the family tothem by an overriding obligation in the nature of a  charge,and  the  income could not be said to accrue  to  the  jointHindu family at all.In  Prince Khanderao Gaekwar v. Commissioner  of  Income-tax(4), there was a family trust out of which two grandsons  ofthe settlor had to be paid a portion of the income.  It	 wasprovided  that	if their mother lived separately,  then	 thetrustees  were to pay her Rs. 18,000 per year.	 The  motherlived  separately, and two deeds were executed by which	 thetwo  grandsons	agreed	to pay Rs. 15,000 per  year  to	 themother,(1)   (1940) 8 I.T.R. 236.(3)  (1945) 13 I.T.R. 512.(2)  (1938) 6 I.T.R. 206.(4)  (1948) 16 I.T.R. 294.641and created a charge on the property.  The sons having	paidRs.  6,000 in excess of their obligations, sought to  deductthe amount from their assessable income, and it was  allowedby the Bombay High Court, observing that though the  paymentwas a voluntary payment, it was subject to a valid and legalcharge	which  could be enforced in a Court of law  and	 theamount	was thus deductible under s. 9(1)(iv).	There is  Dodistinction  between a charge created by a decree  of  Courtand  one created by agreement of parties, provided  that  bythat  charge  the  income from property can be	said  to  bediverted so as to bring the matter within s. 9(1)(iv) of theAct.   The  case was one of application	 of  the  particularsection of the Act and not one of an obligation created by amoney  decree, whether income accrued or not.  The case	 is,therefore, distinguishable from the present, and we need notconsider  whether in the special circumstances of that	caseit was correctly decided.In  V. M. Raghavalu Naidu & Sons v. Commissioner of  Income-tax (1), the assessees were the executors and trustees of  awill, who were required to pay maintenance allowances to themother	and  widow  of the testator.  The  amount  of  theseallowances  was	 sought to be deducted, but  the  claim	 wasdisallowed.   Satyanarayana Rao and Viswanatha	Sastri,	 JJ.distinguished  the  case from that of the Privy	 Council  inBejoy Singh Dudhuria (2).  Viswanatha Sastri, J. observedthat the testator was under a personal obligation under	 theHindu  law  to maintain his wife and mother, and if  he	 hadspent a portion of his income on such maintenance, he  couldnot have deducted the amount from his assessable income, andthat   the   position  of  the	executor  was	no   better.Satyanarayana  Rao,  J.	 added that the amount	was  not  anallowance  which was charged upon the estate by a decree  ofCourt  or  otherwise and which the testator himself  had  noright or title to receive.  The income which was received bythe executors included the amount paid as maintenance, and aportion	  of  it  was  thus  applied  in   discharging	 theobligation.(1) (1950) 18 I.T.R. 787.(2) (1933) 1 I.T.R. 131.642The last cited case is again of the Bombay High Court, whichseems to have influenced the decision in  the instant  case.That is reported in Seth Motilal Manekchand v.	Commissionerof  Income-tax(1).   In	 that case,  there  was	 a  managingagency,	 which belonged	 to a Hindu joint family  consistingof  A, his son B and A's wife.	A partition took place,	 andit was agreed  that the managing agency should be divided, Aand   B	 taking	 a  moiety  each  of  the  managing   agencyremuneration  but each of them paying A's wife 2 as. 8	piesout  of their respective 8 as. share in the managing  agencyremuneration.	Chagla,	 C. J. and Tendolkar, J.  held	thatunder the deed of partition A and B had really intended thatthey  were to receive only a portion of the managing  agencycommission and that the amount paid to A's wife was divertedbefore	it  became  the	 income of A  and  B  and  could  bededucted.  The learned Judge observed at p. 741 as follows:"We are inclined to accept the submission of Mr. Kolah	thatit  does  constitute  a charge, but in our  opinion,  it  isunnecessary  to decide this question because  this  questioncan  only  have	 relevance  and	 significance  if  we	wereconsidering  a	claim  made  for  deduction  under   section9(1)(iv)  of  the Income-tax Act where a claim	is  made  inrespect	 of immovable property where the immovable  propertyis  charged  or mortgaged to pay a certain  amount.   It  issufficient  for the purpose of this reference if we come  tothe  conclusion that Bhagirathibai had a  legal	 enforceableright  against the partner in respect of her 2 annas  and  8pies share and that the partner was under a legal obligationto pay that amount."These  are the cases which have considered the problem	fromvarious	 angles.   Some of them appear to have	applied	 theprinciple correctly and some, not.  But we do Dot propose toexamine the correctness of the decisions in the light of thefacts in them.	In our opinion, the true test is whether theamount	sought to be deducted, in truth, never	reaches	 theassessee as his income.	 Obligations, no doubt, there are inevery case, but it is the nature of the obligation which  isthe(1) (1957) 31 I.T.R. 735.643decisive  fact.	  There is a difference	 between  an  amountwhich a person is obliged to apply out of his income and  anamount which by the nature of the obligation cannot be	saidto  be a part of the income of the assessee.  Where  by	 theobligation   income  is	 diverted  before  it  reaches	 theassessee,  it  is  deductible;	but  where  the	   income isrequired to be applied to discharge an obligation after suchincome	reaches the assessee, the same consequence, in	law,does not follow.  It is the first kind of payment which	 cantruly be excused and not the second.  The second payment  ismerely	an obligation to pay another a portion of one's	 ownincome,	 which has been received and is since applied.	 Thefirst  is  a  case in which the	 income	 never	reaches	 theassessee, who even if he were to collect it, does so, not aspart  of his income, but for and on behalf of the person  towhom it is payable.  In our opinion, the present case is onein which the wife and children of the assessee who continuedto be members of the family received a portion of the incomeof the assessee, after the assessee had received the  incomeas  his own.The case is one of application of a	 portion  ofthe  income  to discharge an obligation and not	 a  case  inwhich  by  an overriding charge the assessee became  only  acollector  of another's income.	 The matter in	the  presentcase would have been different, if such an overriding chargehad  existed  either upon the property or upon	its  income,which  is  not	the case.  In our opinion,  the	 case  fallsoutside	 the rule in Bejoy Singh-Dudhuria's case and  ratherfalls within the rule stated by the Judicial Committee in P.C. Mullick's caseFor these reasons, we hold that the question referred to theHigh Court ought to have been answered in the negative.	 We,accordingly,  discharge the answer given by the High  Court,-and  the  question will be answered in the  negative.	 Theappeal	is  thus  allowed with costs here and  in  the	HighCourt.			   Appeal allowed.(1) (1933) 1 I.T.R. 135.      (2) (1938) 6 I.T. R. 206.644