PETITIONER:M/S.  TITAGHUR PAPER MILLS CO.	LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1095		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2)1012 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC 896	 (5) F	    1960 SC 985	 (12) RF	    1961 SC 867	 (8) R	    1963 SC 325	 (19,20) R	    1963 SC1474	 (9,12) F	    1963 SC1480	 (5) F	    1964 SC 472	 (3) E	    1968 SC 963	 (30) RF	    1972 SC1436	 (11) RF	    1972 SC2148	 (22)ACT: Industrial Dispute-Production Bonus, nature of-jurisdictionof Tribunal to revise production bonus scheme introduced  byemployer-Profit	 Bonus-If  can	be awarded  in	addition  toProduction     bonus-Available	   surplus-Deduction	 forrehabilitation, how calculated.HEADNOTE:In 1949 the appellant framed a scheme called " Tonnage	Pro-duction Bonus Scheme " whereunder the workmen were to get 13days' basic wages by way of bonus on a production Of  30,000tons  and thereafter an additional one day's basic wage	 forevery  46o  tons  produced upto a maximum  Of  36,000.	 Thescheme	was  accepted by the workmen.  In 1953	the  workmenraised	industrial  disputes claiming profit bonus  for	 theyears  1950-51	and 1951-52 in addition	 to  the  productionbonus and asked for revision of the production bonus scheme.The   Industrial  Tribunal,  to	 which	the  disputes	werereferred,   rejected  both  the	 claims.   On  appeal,	 theAppellate Tribunal awarded profit bonus equal to one month'sbasic  wage for 1951-52 but dismissed the claim for  1950-51as  having  been made too late.	 It revised  the  productionbonus  scheme by providing for i day's basic wage  for	eachincrease  Of 460 tons over 30,000 tons uPtO 36,000 tons	 andfor  2	days, basic wage for each increase Of  46o  tons  inexcess Of 36,000 tons.	The appellant contended (i) that theTribunal  had no jurisdiction to vary the  production  bonusscheme	;  (ii) that such a scheme could only be  varied  byagreement  ; (iii) that no proper grounds had been made	 outfor varying the scheme ; (iv) that profit bonus could not beawarded	 in  addition' to production bonus ;  (v)  that	 theproduction bonus in this case was really profit bonus ;	 and(vi) that there was no available surplus out of which profitbonus could be paid.Held, that the Tribunal had jurisdiction to revise the	pro-duction	 bonus	scheme.	  Payment of  production  bonus	 waspayment	 of  further  emoluments depending  not	 upon  extraprofits, but, upon extra production, as an incentive to	 theworkmen	 to  put  in more  than	 the  standard	performance.Though it was discretionary with the appellants to introducethe  scheme,  once the scheme was introduced  and  put	intooperation, it became a term of employment of the workmen andany  dispute with respect to such term of employment was  anindustrial  dispute  which could properly be referred  to  aTribunal.   The	 power of the Tribunal	in  considering	 thescheme1013was  not confined to the question of mala fides etc. of	 theemployer's action but it had power to vary the terms of	 thescheme if circumstances justified it.There  was no justification for interfering with the  schemeupto  a production Of 36,000 tons in view of  the  agreementbetween	 the  parties.	But the scheme did not	provide	 forproduction  above  36,000  tons and as	such  there  was  noagreement  with respect to this, and as the  production	 hadgone  up beyond 36,000 tons it was necessary to provide	 forproduction  bonus  beyond  this quantity.   There  were	 tworeasons	 for increase in the rates of payment of  productionbonus,	viz., (i) the intensification of the efforts of	 theworkmen	 in increasing production, and (ii) the	 progressivegoing  down  of	 the labour cost of production	per  ton  asproduction  increased.	 The  rates  had  to  be   increasedprogressively  with production.	 Consequently, for each	 46otons increase in production the proper rates for payment  ofproduction  bonus  would be 1-1/4, 1-3/4 and 2	days'  basicwages respectively or production between. 36,000 and  42,000tons,  42,000  and 48,000 tons, 48,000 and 54,000  tons	 and54,000 and 60,000 tons.The  " Tonnage Production Bonus Scheme " introduced  by	 theappellant was in fact also a production bonus scheme and nota  profit bonus scheme.	 The fact that one of the  terms  ofthe  scheme empowered the directors to cancel or reduce	 thepayment of production bonus in case the gross profit was notsufficient  to meet fixed dividends, interest,	depreciationcharges, taxation and 10% dividend to ordinary	shareholdersdid  not make it a profit bonus scheme as the  circumstancesmentioned  are	not  the same that have	 to  be	 taken	intoaccount	 in arriving at the available surplus  according  tothe Full Bench formula.	 Nor was the position altered by theclause in the scheme which empowered the appellant to cancelor  modify  the	 scheme	 in  case  Government  enforced	  bylegislation  any scheme for bonus or profit sharing as	thisdid  not mean that the scheme itself was for profit  sharingor  profit bonus.  The other clauses of the  scheme  clearlyindicated that it was for production bonus.  If there was anavailable  surplus  of profits according to the	 Full  BenchFormula	 the  workmen were entitled to get profit  bonus  inaddition to the production bonus.Mathuradas Kanji v. Labour Appellate Tribunal, A.I.R. [1958]S.C. 899, distinguished.Held  further, that there was available surplus	 of  profitsand  the profit bonus equal to one month's basic  wages	 wasproperly  awarded  by the Appellate Tribunal  for  [1951-52.The  claim  for deduction for rehabilitation was made  on  awrong  basis  by  the appellant.  In order to  arrive  at  arealistic figure for rehabilitation	the   total    blockshould be divided into three heads : (i) land,(ii)buildings,railway sidings and things of that nature which had a..muchlonger	 life  and  where  no  imports	were   needed,	 and(iii)machinery.	  In  the case of land	no  replacement	 wasnecessary and no provision need be made for  rehabilitation.In the1014case of buildings etc. the multiplier would be smaller whilethe divisor would be larger.  Machinery bad again to be sub-divided	 according to when it was purchased so as to  arriveat correct multipliers and divisors.  As machinery purchasedbefore	the last war stood on one footing there would  be  apre-1939  block.   The	second block  may  be  of  machinerypurchased  during  the war and the third of  that  purchasedafter the war.	The last two- were not rigid divisions.	  Inthe   circumstances   of  the  present	case,	the   propermultipliers  for  these	 three bocks would be  4,  2  and  1respectively.	As  both Tribunals had accepted	 10  as	 thedivisor	 that may be accepted as. the divisor for the  threeblocks.	 Calculating on that basis the rehabilitation  costsdid not wipe out the entire gross profits as claimed by	 theappellants  and there was an available surplus out of  whichprofit bonus could be paid.The clerical staff, budli workers and temporary workers werenot entitled to claim attendance bonus as they were  differ-ent from other workmen.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 450 &	 451of 1957.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedJuly  31, 1956, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal  of  India,Calcutta, in Appeals Nos.  Cal. 282/55 and 6/56.C....K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. N.  Sanyal,Additional  Solicitor-General of India, D. N. Mukherjee	 andB. N. Ghose, for the Appellant (In C.A. No. 450/57).A....Roy  Mukherjee and H. N. Hingorani, for the  respondent(In C. A. No. 450/57.)M....C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   C.	  K.Daphtary,  Solicitor-General  for India and  H.	 N.  Sanyal,Additional  Solicitor-General of India, D. N. Mukherjee	 andB. N. Ghose, for the appellants (In C. A. No. 450/57).Sadhan Chandra Gupta, Janardhan Sharma and M. K. Ramamurthi,for the respondents (In C. A. No. 451/57).Sadhan Chandra Gupta, Janardhan Sharma and M. K. Ramamurthi,for the appellant (In C. A. No. 451/57).1015M....C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, H. N.  Sanyal,Additional  Solicitor-General of India, D. N. Mukherjee	 andB. N. Ghose, for the respondent (In C.	A. No. 514/57).G....D, Ambukar for the Secretary, for the Intervener No. 1.Sadhan	Chandra Gupta and Janardhan Sharma,  for  IntervenerNo. 2.1959.  May 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.-These are three appeals by special	 leave	fromthe same decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of  Indiaand  will  be dealt with together.  The	 first	two  appeals(Nos.  450 & 451) are by Messrs.  Titaghur Paper  Mills	 Co.Ltd., and the third (No. 514) by its workmen.Titaghur Paper Mills Co., Ltd. (hereinafter called  company)own two paper mills one at Titaghur (hereinafter called MillNo. 1) and the other at Kankinarah (hereinafter called	MillNo.  2).  It appears that there had been a  dispute  betweenthe  company and its workmen in 1948, which was referred  tothe adjudication of a tribunal.	 That was disposed of by thetribunal  on  November	5, 1949.   Among  the  matters	thenreferred  was  the question of profit bonus  for  the  years1945-46	 and  1946-47.	 When  that  matter  was  under	 theconsideration  of  the tribunal, the company put  forward  ascheme	of  production	bonus  on the  basis  of  a  minimumproduction  of	30,000 tons of paper in a year	in  the	 twomills  together.   The	basis of the  scheme  was  that	 theworkmen would get 13 days' basic wage (this being equivalentto  half  of one month's basic wage) by way of	bonus  on  aproduction  of 30,000 tons for both mills.   Thereafter	 theworkmen	 were to get an additional one day's basic wage	 forevery  460 tons produced upto a maximum of 36,000 tons	whenthe  production bonus would come up to 26 days'	 basic	wage(which	would  be  equivalent  to  one	month's	 basic	wageincluding weekly holidays).  The company in putting  forwardthe scheme said that "as an admittedly rough basis for	sucha scheme something on the1016following  lines  might, we think, be equitable".   It	thengave the scheme mentioned above.  The tribunal dealing	withthe question of profit bonus for the years 1945-46 and 1946-47 observed that the scheme of production bonus put  forwardby   the  company  had	been  accepted	by  the	  union	  assatisfactory  and  for	the purpose of	that  proceeding  itaccepted  the scheme as a measure for awarding profit  bonusfor  the years 194546 and 1946-47.  The actual bonus  workedout  to 17 days'- basic wage for 1945-46 and 19 days'  basicwage  for 1946-47 ; (see award of Sri M. C. Banerji, in	 thepublication of Government of West Bengal, Labour Department,I  Awards  made	 by the Tribunals  for	the  quarter  endingDecember,  1949 ", pp. 130_ 150).  It further  appears	thatthe  detailed scheme was later communicated to the union  inJuly 1950 and as the principle had already been accepted  bythe union before Sri Banerji the scheme was put in operationfrom April 1, 1949,- and production bonus has all along beenpaid in accordance with it after that date.Disputes, however, arose between the company and its workmenin 1953.  The workmen of Mill No. 2 were the first to  raisea dispute in August 1953, in which inter alia they  demandedprofit	bonus  for the years 1950-51 and  1951-52  and	alsoprayed	for certain changes in the production bonus  scheme.The  workmen  of  Mill	No. I  also  raised  a	dispute	 andpresented  a  charter of demands to the company	 in  October1953.	They  also demanded profit bonus for the  two  yearsmentioned above and revision of the production bonus scheme.These  disputes	 were  referred by the	Government  of	WestBengal to the Fifth Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal.  Therewere  two references, one relating to each mill.  They	wereheard  separately by the Industrial Tribunal which gave	 twoseparate  awards  rejecting  all the  demands  made  by	 theworkmen.   Consequently, two appeals were preferred  by	 theworkmen before the Labour Appellate Tribunal.  There the twoappeals	 were heard together at the request of	the  partiesand disposed of by the Tribunal by the same judgment on July31, 1956. The Fifth Industrial Tribunal rejected the claim of1017the workmen for revision of the production bonus scheme	 andfor grant of profit bonus for the years 1950-51 and 1951-52.It  was of opinion that the claim for profit bonus  for	 thetwo years was not maintainable as the workmen had been givenproduction bonus and that met the profit bonus claim of	 theworkmen	 for the two years and all claims for  profit  bonusfor  these  two	 years	must be taken  to  have	 been  fullysatisfied.  The question of delay in making the profit bonusclaim was also raised; but the Fifth Industrial Tribunal wasof  the	 view  that  the profit bonus  claim  could  not  bedefeated merely on the ground of delay.	 As to the  revisionof  production	bonus scheme, it held that scheme  had	beenaccepted  by the union and no reason had been shown why	 therate  of one day's basic wage as production bonus for  everyincrease  of 460 tons over 30,000 tons should be  disturbed.It  was also of the view that increased production  was	 notdue to increased efforts on the part of the workmen but	 wasdue  mainly  to	 increase  in labour  strength	as  well  asinstallation of new machinery.On  appeal the Labour Appellate Tribunal rejected the  claimfor profit bonus for the year 1950-51 on the ground that  itwas made too late.  It, however, disagreed with the view  ofthe  Fifth  Industrial Tribunal that  the  production  bonusscheme	fully satisfied the claim of the workmen for  profitbonus and therefore DO profit bonus should be given even forthe  year 1951-52, with regard to which it %-as	 of  opinionthat  the claim was not belated.  It, therefore,  went	intothe figures of profits and arrived at the available  surplusin  accordance	with  the formula known as  the	 Full  BenchFormula	 evolved in The Mill-Owners' Association, Bombay  v.The Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, Bombay(1).  Having arrivedat the available surplus it granted one month's profit bonusin addition to what. the workmen were entitled to under	 theproduction  bonus  scheme  as  revised by  it.	 As  to	 theproduction bonus scheme, it was of the view that there	werereasons	 for  revising it and therefore revised	 (1)  [1950]L.L.J. 1247.1281018it, providing for 112 days' basic wage for each increase  of460 tons over 30,000 tons up to the limit of 36,000 tons andtwo days' basic wage for each increase of 460 tons in excessof  36,000  tons.  It may be mentioned,	 however,  that	 thechange	 in  the  production  bonus  scheme  was  not	maderetrospective and would therefore come into force from afterthe judgment of the Labour Appellate Tribunal.	The  appealsof the workmen were therefore allowed in these two respects,which have led to the two appeals by the company be-fore us.The  workmen through their union have also filed  an  appealagainst	 those	portions  of  the  decision  of	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal which rejected their demands.In  the two appeals by the company two matters	relating  to(i) production bonus and (ii) profit bonus have been  raisedbefore	us.   We shall first take up these two	matters	 andthen come to the appeal by the workmen.The  main contentions on behalf of the company with  respectto the production bonus scheme are threefold, namely,(1)The	Industrial Tribunal has no jurisdiction to  go	intothe  question of production bonus scheme at all, for such  ascheme by its very nature can only be a matter of  agreementbetween the employer and the employees and cannot be imposedby a tribunal;(2)Even	 where	a production bonus scheme is in	 force,	 itsterms  cannot be varied by a tribunal and any variation	 canonly be the outcome of an agreement between the employer andthe employees, because initiation or introduction of such  ascheme	is what may be called a I management function';	 and(3) Even if an industrial tribunal has the power to vary theproduction  bonus  scheme,  no material was  placed  on	 therecord in this case on the basis of which the tribunal couldorder  a variation in the scheme in force in the  company.As  to	the award of profit bonus for the year	1951-52	 theattack was two-fold, namely,(4)It  was not open to a tribunal to award  both  productionbonus and profit bonus and in any case it1019could  not  be done in the present case	 as  the  productionbonus here was nothing more than profit bonus; and(5) Even if both production bonus and profit bonus could  beawarded, there was no available surplus in this case out  ofwhich profit bonus for that year could be paid.Re. (1).Before we go into the question of jurisdiction of a tribunalunder the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (hereinafter calledthe  Act), we should like to consider what production  bonusessentially  is.   The payment of production  bonus  dependsupon production and is in addition to wages.  In effect,  itis  an incentive to higher 'production and is in the  natureof an incentive wage. -There are various plans prevalent  inother  countries  for this purpose known as  Incentive	WagePlans  worked  out  on various bases,  for  example,  HalseyPremium Plan, Bedaux Point Premium Plan, Haynes Manit Systemand Emerson Efficiency Bonus Plan; (see Labour Law by Smith,Second Edition, P. 723).  The simplest of such plans is	 thestraight piece-rate plan where payment is made according  toeach  piece produced, subject in some cases to a  guaranteedminimum	 wage  for so many hours' work.	  But  the  straightpiece-rate system cannot work where the finished product  isthe  result of the co-operative effort of a large number  ofworkers	 each  doing a small part which contributes  to	 theresult.	  In  such  cases,,  production	 bonus	by   tonnageproduced,  as  in this case, is given.	There is a  base  orstandard  above	 which	extra  payment	is  made  for  extraproduction  in	addition  to the basic wage.   Such  a	plantypically guarantees time wage up to the time represented bystandard  performance  and  gives workers  a  share  in	 thesavings	 represented by superior performance.  But  whatevermay  be the nature of the plan the payment in effect  is  anextra emoluments for extra effort put in by workmen over thestandard  that	may be fixed.  That is -the reason  why	 allthese plans are known as Incentive Wage Plans and  generallyspeaking have little to do with profits.  The extra -paymentdepends not on1020extra  profits but on extra production.	 This extra  paymentcalculated  on	the basis of extra production is in  a	caselike the present where the payment is made after the  annualproduction is known, in the nature of emoluments paid at theend  of the year.  Therefore generally speaking, payment  ofproduction bonus is nothing more nor less than a payment  offurther emoluments depending upon production as an incentiveto the workmen to put in more than the standard performance.Production bonus in this case also is of this nature and  isnothing more than additional emoluments paid as an incentivefor higher production.	We shall later consider the argumentwhether in this case the production bonus is anything  otherthan  profit bonus.  It is enough to say at this stage	thatthe  bonus  under  the	scheme in  this	 case  also  dependsessentially on production and therefore is in the nature  ofincentive wage.Let  us	 now  turn to the question of  jurisdiction  of	 thetribunal under the Act to consider a production bonus schemeat  all.   The	argument  is  that  the	 introduction  of  aproduction  bonus  scheme is purely discretionary  with	 theemployer and no tribunal can impose such a scheme.   Whetherthere should be increased production in a particular concernis  a matter to be determined entirely by the  employer	 anddepends	 upon  a consideration of so many  complex  factors,namely, the state of the market, the demand for the product,the range of prices, and so on.	 It is, therefore,  entirelyfor  the employer to introduce a production bonus scheme  ornot.  There is good deal of force in the argument up to thispoint  ; but the argument goes further and it is  said	thateven  after  the scheme is introduced, it is  for  the	samereasons	 in  the  discretion  of  the  employer	 whether  tocontinue  it  or  not.	 Therefore, it	is  urged  that	 thetribunal  cannot have jurisdiction to consider a  productionbonus  scheme at all, for the tribunal would then  be  doingsomething   which  the	employer  can  set  at	 naught	  bywithdrawing  the scheme or by nullifying the effect  of	 thetribunal's  order by so arranging that the  production	doesnot  reach  the	 level at  which  production  bonus  becomespayable, for1021example,  by  not  providing enough  raw  material  for	 thepurpose.  It is further urged that if it is entirely in	 thediscretion of the employer to introduce or not to  introducea  production  bonus  scheme, the  fact	 that  the  employerintroduces  a  scheme  will not	 give  jurisdiction  to	 thetribunal to interfere with it in any way, for otherwise	 thetribunal would be compelling the employer in the guise of  arevision  of the scheme to do something which  the  tribunalcould not initially do. Our attention in this connection wasdrawn  to  Shalimar  Rope Works	 Mazdoor  Union,  Howrah  v.Messrs;	 Shalimar  Rope Works Ltd.,  Shalimar,	Howrah	(1),where it was observed that though a production bonus  schememay be desirable in the interest of harmonious	relationshipbetween	 the employer and employees, there is no  obligationon  the part of the management to give production bonus	 andno  decision  had been brought to the notice of	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal holding that a scheme of production bonuswas  obligatory on the part of the company ; (see  p.  504).We  are-,  however, not called upon to decide in  this	casewhether a demand for the introduction of a production  bonusscheme	where there-was none before can be made	 a  subject-matter	of industrial dispute as defined in s. 2 (k) of	 theAct  or	 whether a scheme of production bonus  can  for	 thefirst  time be imposed on the employer by a  tribunal  underthe  Act.   The	 problem that is before us  is	whether	 thetribunal tinder the Act will have jurisdiction to deal	witha  production  bonus scheme in a concern where it  has	beenintroduced.   The answer to this question depends  upon	 theterms  of the Act and not on the consideration	whether	 thescheme	can be initiated only by the employer in  the  firstinstance.  In order that the tribunal may have	jurisdictionall  that is necessary is that an industrial dispute  withinthe  meaning  of  s. 2 (k) of the Act  should  exist  or  beapprehended and there should be a reference of such  disputeby  the appropriate government to the tribunal under s.	 10.Now  '	industrial dispute' has been defined  in  very	wideterms in s. 2 (k) and for our purpose it means any(1)..(1957) L.A.C. 496.1022dispute	 or  difference between the  employers	and  workmenwhich is connected with the employment or non-employment  orthe terms of employment or with the conditions of labour, ofany person.  We have already held that the production  bonusscheme	in this case is an incentive wage plan and  what  ispaid  under  the  scheme over and above the  basic  wage  issupplementary emolument depending upon annual production.  Adispute arising about such an emolument clearly comes withinthe  words " terms of employment ". As soon therefore as  anemployer  introduces a production bonus scheme and the	sameis put in operation and the workmen accept it becomes a termof  employment	of  the workmen working under  him  and	 anydispute	 with  respect to such a term of  employment  is  anindustrial dispute and if it is referred to a tribunal unders.  10, as has been done in this case, it  has	jurisdictionunder s. 15 to deal with it.  The argument therefore on thishead must be rejected and it must be held that the  tribunalhad  jurisdiction under the Act to deal with the  scheme  ofproduction  bonus which had been introduced in this  companyand was in force at all material times.Re. (2).This  brings  us  to the second question,  namely,  where  ascheme of this kind is in force and there is a dispute	withregard	to its terms, what is the extent of the powers of  atribunal to deal with it.  The argument is put in this	way.The  introduction  and	continuance of	a  production  bonusscheme	is one of the functions of  management.	  Therefore,when a question of revision of such a scheme comes up beforea  tribunal,  all  that the tribunal  should  look  into  iswhether this matter is an exclusive management function ? Ifit  comes  to  the  conclusion	that  it  is  an   exclusivemanagement  function,  it  should  not	interfere  with	 thedetails	 of  the scheme, unless it also comes  to  the	con-clusion	  that	the  employer  is  guilty  of  mala   fides,victimization,	fraud or unfair labour practice through	 theintroduction or continuance of the scheme.  It is said	thateven  though the tribunal may have jurisdiction to  considersuch a scheme, it should refuse to interfere1023with it as soon as it comes to the conclusion that it is  anexclusive  management function and there is no	question  ofmala fides, etc.We think it unnecessary for present purposes to embark on  adiscussion  of	what  is  and  what  is	 not  an   exclusivemanagement  function.  Basically, everything connected	withthe  management	 of an industrial concern  is  a  managementfunction, except the internal affairs of any union which mayexist.	The Act has made no distinction between what may  becalled	exclusive  management functions and others.   It  isalso  well  settled that the tribunals tinder the  Act	havepower to interfere with management functions falling  withintheir  purview in the interest of industrial peace  and	 theAct  was  enacted with that object.  Therefore, once  it  isconceded,  as  is  the	case here,  that  the  tribunal	 hasjurisdiction  to entertain such an industrial dispute  whichcomes  within the terms of s. 2(k) we see no reason why	 thepower  of  the	tribunal  to  take  into  consideration	  anincentive  wage plan like a production bonus scheme  alreadyintroduced should be limited merely to the consideration  ofthe  question  whether the employer's action is	 mala  fide,etc.   Where a production bonus scheme is in force  and	 hasbecome	a  term of employment, there is no  reason  why	 thetribunal  should  not have the power to vary  its  terms  ifcircumstances justify it.  Nor can the power of revision  bedenied	to  the	 tribunal in respect of	 a  scheme  actuallyintroduced  on	the ground that the introduction of  such  ascheme was an exclusive management function and therefore itshould be immune from being touched at all.  Therefore, evenassuming that the initiation of a production bonus scheme isan exclusive management function and the final decision withrespect to its introduction rests initially with the manage-ment,  the right of the tribunal to take into  considerationsuch  an  initiated  scheme  (which has	 become	 a  term  ofemployment) and to revise it cannot for a moment be  doubtedunder  the  Act.   It is true that  the	 tribunal  will	 notlightly interfere with a scheme introduced by the managementand  accepted  by  the	union.	It is  also  true  that	 thetribunal would only1024make a change in the rates for good and sufficient  reasons.There  can  be	no doubt, however,  that  the  tribunal	 hasjurisdiction  under  the Act to take  into  consideration  aproduction bonus scheme which has been introduced and is  inoperation and in proper cases to revise it, and if necessaryto change the rates and other conditions on which such bonusis  payable.  Our attention in this connection was drawn  toIndian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen(1), where	 thelimits of the power of a tribunal to interfere with an orderof  dismissal were considered.	That case is in our  opinionof  no help to the appellant.  It was laid down	 there	thatundoubtedly the management of a concern had power to  directits  own  internal administration and  discipline;  but	 thepower was not unlimited and when a dispute arose, IndustrialTribunals  had the power to see whether the  termination  ofservices of a workman was justified and to give	 appropriaterelief	It was further laid down under what  conditions	 theIndustrial  Tribunal  will  interfere  with  the  order	  ofdismissal.   On	 a  parity  of	reasoning,  the	  IndustrialTribunal  has  the  power  under  the  Act  to	revise	 theproduction bonus scheme once it has been initiated.  It willdo  so only for good and cogent reasons, such as a  materialchange	in  method,  product, tools,  material,	 design,  orproduction  Conditions, or a saving in labour cost  and	 thelike,  maintaining  as	far  as	 possible  the	 establishedrelationship between earnings and effort and avoiding  rateswhich  will give results out of all proportion to the  basicwage.	We are therefore of opinion that the argument  underthis head must also be rejected.Re. (3).The  main  contention under this head is that there  was  nomaterial  before  the  Appellate  Tribunal  to	justify	 theincrease  in  the rate which it ordered.   We  have  alreadypointed	 out that the scheme put forward by the company	 wasto  pay	 a  production bonus of 13 days'  basic	 wage  on  aminimum	 production  of 30,000 tons.  Thereafter  one  day'sbasic wage was to(1)..[1958] S.C.R. 667.1025be  paid  for every 460 tons produced up to the	 maximum  of36,000 tons, the rated capacity of the mills being then saidto be over 36,000 tons.	 The Appellate Tribunal has kept theminimum	 production at 30,000 tons with a bonus of 13  days'basic  wage.  Between 30,000 and 36,000 tons it	 has  raisedthe rate to 1-1/2 days' basic wage for each increase-of	 460tons  over  30,000  tons to the limit of  36,000  tons,	 andthereafter to two days' basic wage for each increase- of 460tons  in  excess of 36,000 tons.  It gave,, two	 reasons  insupport	 of  this  increase,  namely,  (i)  that  the  greatincrease in production since the introduction of the  schemewas  attributable  to  a very  considerable  extent  to	 theincrease  of efforts on the, part of labour and therefore  areasonable proportion of the increased _income on account ofincreased production should go to labour, and (ii) that	 oneday's wage only as bonus for every 460 tons over 30,000 tonsis  not commensurate with the actual increase of  income  onthat  increased block of production.  It is not clear to  uswhat  exactly  the Appellate Tribunal had in  mind  when  ittalked of the increase of income as a reason for increase inthe  rate.  The question of increase in the rate has  to  beconsidered  in two stages, namely, (i) the increase  between30,000 and 36,000 tons and (ii) the increase when productiongoes  beyond 36,000 tons.  It appears from what Mr.  Banerjisaid  in his award of 1949 that the basic principle  of	 thescheme,	 as it was put forward before him, was	accepted  bythe  union as satisfactory, meaning thereby that  the  unionconsidered that 13 days' basic wage for a minimum productionof  30,000 tons and one day's basic wage for every 460	tonsbeyond	that  upto 36,000 was fair to labour.  It  has	beenurged  that there was no agreement between the	workmen	 andthe company in connection with this scheme.  It does  appearthat  all the terms, which were incorporated in	 the  schemecommunicated  to  labour in July 1950,	were  not  initiallyevolved with the agreement of the union ; but so far as	 therate  of bonus was concerned that was accepted by the  unionas satisfactory.  In the company's appeals, we are1291026concerned  only	 with the rate.	 The question  therefore  iswhether	 the  Appellate Tribunal was justified	in  changingthis  rate which was agreed to as satisfactory by the  unionup  to a production of 36,000 tons.  We are of opinion	thatin  view  of  the  agreement between the  parties  up  to  aproduction of 36,000 'tons there was no such material beforethe  Appellate Tribunal as would justify  interference	withthe  agreed rate.  The intensification of labour  must	havebeen taken into account when the union agreed to the rate upto 36,000 tons, and there is nothing to show that since thenthere  has been any change in the conditions to call  for  achange in the rate.  The order of the Appellate Tribunal  sofar as it relates to production up to 36,000 tons cannot  besustained, as no material was placed before it to warrant  achange in that agreed rate.Then  we  come	to the rate after 36,000  tons.	  There	 theconsiderations	in our view are different.  The scheme	onlyprovided  for a production of 36,000 tons.  It is true	thatthereafter the production has gone up beyond 36,000, and thecompany	 has  been paying the same flat rate  of  one  day'sbasic  wage for every 460 tons for the extra production	 andthe  workmen have been accepting that payment.	At the	sametime  there  was no-collective acceptance by  the  union  onbehalf	of  the workmen of this rate being  satisfactory  orfair  for  production above 36,000  tons.   Production	wentbeyond	36,000	tons  for the first time in  1951-52  and  adispute	 was raised in October 1953 by the workmen  of	MillNo.  1	not  very long after production for  that  year	 wasknown.	 There was no dispute as to the general revision  ofthe  rate by the workmen of Mill No. 2; but it was  concededon behalf of the company that the two mills must be  treatedon  the same footing in this matter.  The company  thereforecannot	say  that  the Appellate Tribunal  should  not	haveinterfered  with the rate above 36,000 tons,  because  therewas  a	collective agreement by the union on behalf  of	 theWorkmen	 and there was no material before it to	 change	 therate even beyond 36,000 tons.  Two reasons were given by theAppellate Tribunan for the1027change	it  ordered.  Of these the second  is  difficult  tounderstand as it is not clearly or happily expressed, thoughthe  first reason, (namely, increased effort on the part  oflabour)	 would certainly apply when we	consider  productionbeyond	36,000	tons.  It stands to reason  that  where	 thelabour force is more or less the same, production beyond theoriginal   target   of	 36,000.  tons	 would	 mean	moreintensification	 of  effort  by labour, for  it	 is  not  indispute	 that  the  working hours have	remained  the  same.Other things being equal, the greater the production by	 thesame labour force in the same space of time, there is  boundto be more intensification of labour to achieve this result.This  is  certainly a matter which  the	 Appellate  Tribunalcould  take  into account in considering  whether  the	rateafter 36,000 tons should be raised.  A comparison of figuresof  production	and labour force employed between  1948	 and1952 (assuming other factors to be the same) would show thatthere must have been intensification of labour effort to gotthe  increased production.  In 1948, total labour  force  inthe two mills was 5,860 (Exs.  F & H).	In 1952, it went  upto  6,213, an increase of just over 6 per cent.	  Productionon  the other hand was 28,244 tons in 1948-49 while  it	 was37,738 tons in 1951-52, an increase of slightly above 33 percent.	So it is obvious that the increase in production  ismuch  more  than the increase in labour force.	It  is	truethat  in 1950 a new paper-making machine was substituted  inone  of	 the mills, and some bamboo-crushers  and  digesterswere  also added during this period and other large  amountsspent  on machinery, and that fact certainly accounts for  apart  of  the  increase.  It is, however,  not	possible  toascertain,  with anything like mathematical accuracy, as  tohow  much of the increase in production is  attributable  toimproved  machinery  and  how much of  it  is  referable  tointensification	  of   labour  of   the	  workmen.    It-maynevertheless be taken as fairly certain that the increase inproduction is referable to a great extent to intensificationof  the	 efforts  of  the workmen, for	there  has  been  noappreciable  increase in the labour force.  We have not	 gotthe figures of labour force in the1028later years, though production has gone on increasing,	tillit is said it will reach 54,000 tons mark in 1958-59.  It isapparent,  therefore, that there must have been	 progressiveintensification	 of  labour as the  production	rose  beyond36,000	tons,  and in the premises that was  a	circumstancewhich  the Appellate Tribunal was properly entitled to	takeinto  account  when  considering a change in  the  rate	 forproduction over 36,000 tons.The  second  ground given by the Appellate Tribunal,  as  wehave said above, is not quite clear to us.  Learned  counselfor  the  workmen  have, however, explained  that  what	 theTribunal means is that as the production increases more	 andmore the labour cost per ton goes down; and thus there is  asaving	in  labour cost to the company and the	workmen	 areentitled to share in this progressive saving of labour cost.The  principle which is inherent in this explanation  is  infact  the basis of progressive increase in production  bonusrates  as production increases.	 This will be clear from  anillustration,  which  we shall give just now.	This  illus-tration is based as nearly as possible on the conditions  inthese  two  mills with this difference that -we	 have  takenround  figures for facility of multiplication ;	 the  resultwill be more or' less the same if actual figures are  taken.For the purposes of this illustration, we shall assume	thatthe labour force and other relevant factors remain constant.Let  us start with a basic production of 30,000 tons with  alabour	force of 6,000 and an average wage of all  kinds  atRs. 110/per menses (Ex.	 E).  The total labour cost on	thisbasis  for 30,000 tons per year comes to 79.2  lacs,  givinglabour	cost  per ton as Rs. 264/-.   Now,  when  productionincreases to 36,000 tons and a production bonus of Rs.	25/-per year (Ex.  E) is added to the wage, labour cost for	 theextra  production of 6000 tons comes to Rs. 1.5	 lacs.	 Thetotal labour cost, therefore, for 36,000 tons is 80.7  lacs,which  works out to slightly above Rs. 224/- per ton.	Whenproduction goes up to 42,000 tons, the labour cost increasesby  3 lacs, giving a labour outlay of 82.2 lacs; this  worksout  to	 just  below  Rs.  196	per  ton.   When  productionincreases1029to 48,000 tons, the extra labour cost is 4.5 lacs, making  atotal of 83.7 lacs for 48,000 tons; thus the cost per ton isslightly above Rs. 174/-.  When production goes up to 54,000tons,  labour cost increases by 6 lacs, giving a total	costof 85.2 lacs for 54,000 tons, which works out to just  belowRs.  158/-  per ton.  When production reaches  60,000  tons,which  is  double the basic production, the  additional	 sumpaid to labour in bonus is 7.5 lacs and the total cost	86.7lacs  for 60,000 tons which works out to Rs. 144.5 per	ton.This  is on the basis of the production bonus  above  36,000tons being kept at the same rate at which it is provided  inthe scheme in this case.  It will be clear, therefore,	thatas  production	increases (if other factors  are  the  same,namely, labour force and machinery), there is a	 progressiveincrease  in  the  saving  of labour  cost.   This,  in	 ouropinion,  makes out a clear case, where one is dealing	withtonnage production bonus, for a progressive increase in	 thebonus.	 We  know  that	 in this  case	there  has  been  anincrease,  but of a small order, in the labour force  duringthe period of increased production; we also know that a	 newpaper-making machine has been put in the place of an old oneand new bamboo-crushers and digesters have been added ;	 andwe know that during the period from April 1, 1948, to  April1,  1959,  there has been a total outlay  on  machinery	 andplant,	worth 223.94 lacs including the above.	There is  nodoubt, therefore, that when production is expected to  reachthe  figure  of	 54,000	 tons in  1958.59,  this  outlay  onmachinery  and plant must also have contributed to it.	 Theincrease  in labour force, if any, after April 1, 1952,	 mayalso have made its contribution.  But it appears to us	thatit is still valid to say that there is saving in labour costwhich  increases  progressively as production  goes  up	 andlabour	can  therefore legitimately  claim  a  progressivelyhigher	rate.	Therefore, though the  Appellate  Tribunal'ssecond	 reason	 does  not  appear  to	have  been   clearlyexpressed, something like what we have said above must	havebeen  at the back of its mind when it decided to change	 therate  above  36,000 tons.  There can be no  doubt  that	 theconsideration we have1030set  out above, will be valid to support the view  taken  bythe Appellate Tribunal that there should be a change in	 therate,  though  it  may not necessarily	support	 the  actualchange ordered by it.  We must not forget that there was  nocollective bargaining resulting in an agreement between	 theunion and the company so far as production above 36,000 tonsis  concerned  as  was the case so far	as  production	upto36,000 tons went.  A case has, therefore, been made out	 fora change in the rate when production goes above 36,000 tons.The  next  question is whether the flat rate  of  two  days'basic  wage  for  every 460 tons allowed  by  the  AppellateTribunal can be supported.  Usually, when tonnage productionbonus  is worked out, the rates progressively increase.	  Wemay in this connection refer to the illustration given in  "Payment	 by Results " published by the International  LabourOffice, Geneva, at p. 102.  We think, therefore, that thoughthere is a case for increasing the rate when production goesabove  36,000  tons,  it should be on  a  progressively	 in-creasing  system.  The -present scheme, as we  have  pointedout earlier, was evolved as an admittedly rough basis  whichwas thought to be equitable.  Following the same rough basisand  using  the same block of 6,000 tons with slabs  of	 460tons,  we  think that on the data available at	present,  itwould be fair to give progressive rates for production	fromover  36,000 tons up to 60,000 tons.  We need not go  beyondthis  for  the present, and if production  increases  beyond60,000	tons,  the  matter  can	 be  gone  into	 again.	  Weconsider,  therefore,  that the rate should  be	 changed  asfollows	 for production over 36,000 tons:1-1/4  days' basic wage on the same scale as is provided  inthe sebeme from 30,000 to 36,000 tons.1-1/2 days' basic wageon the same conditions as above. 1-3/4 days' basic wage -do-(i) From over36,000 tons to42,000 tons.(ii) From over42,000 tons to48,000 tons.(iii) From over48,000 tons to54,000 tons.1031(iv)  From over 54,000 tons to 2 days' basic wage do  60,000tons.We  therefore modify the change in the rate ordered  by	 theAppellate Tribunal as above.Re. (4).The  contention under this head is that though this.  schemeis  called  a production bonus scheme, in reality it  is  nomore than a profit bonus scheme; and therefore, the  workmenare not entitled to any profit bonus worked out on the	FullBench formula referred to above in addition to what they getunder  this  production bonus scheme.	In  this  connectionreliance is placed particularly on clauses (14) and (18)  ofthe  scheme.  Let us therefore determine the true nature  ofthe scheme.  The scheme is headed " Tonnage Production BonusScheme " and not a scheme for profit bonus based on the FullBench  formula.	  It is true that this nomenclature  is	 notdecisive but is nevertheless a factor which may properly  betaken  into consideration.  The primary and basic object  ofthe  scheme,  as  given	 in el. (2),  is  to  stimulate	 theinterests  and	endeavors of the clerks and workers  of	 thecompany	 in increasing the production of saleable paper	 andto  ensure that the workers will get by way of incentive  anincreased  return  for	their  labour  contributing  to	 thebenefits   which   would   accrue   from   such	   increasedproductivity.	This again shows that this is  a  productionbonus  scheme and nothing else.	 Then comes cl.	 (4),  whichlays down that upto a minimum of 30,000 tons the bonus wouldbe 13 days' basic wage; thereafter there is increase of	 oneday's  basic wage for every 460 tons till the figure  of  26days' basic wage is reached for a total production of 36,000tons.  Here again there is no connection between profits andbonus that accrues under this clause.  If, for example, pro-duction	 falls below the minimum of 30,000 tons, there	willbe  no	bonus at all under the scheme whatever	may  be	 theprofits.  This one circumstance clearly brings out the	truenature	of  this  scheme, namely, that it  is  a  scheme  ofproduction bonus and not of1032profit bonus under the Full Bench formula.  That formula hadnothing	 to do with production.	 Bonus tinder  that  formuladepended entirely on the available surplus of profits workedout in the manner provided therein.  Then we come to  clause(14).  That clause lays down that the scheme will be subjectto  one most important general exception, namely,  that	 theprofit earning capacity of the company, irrespective of	 thevolume of production of saleable paper, remains satisfactoryduring	 the   financial  year.	  Accordingly	the   clauseprescribes  that the directors may at their sole  discretioneither	cancel	altogether or reduce in	 scale	of  monetarypayments  the  bonus in any one or more financial  years  inwhich the gross profit earned by the company over the  wholefinancial year is not sufficient to meet fixed dividends andinterest,  depreciation charges and taxation and  thereafterpay  for the whole year dividend not less than 10 per  cent.to  the	 ordinary shareholders of the company.	It  is	saidthat  this makes the scheme a profit bonus scheme.   We	 areunable	to agree with this contention.	It is true that	 thescale  of payment is likely to go down or there may even  beno payment of bonus at all in the circumstances mentioned incl.  (14).   But  the  circumstances  mentioned	 there	 areadmittedly not the same which have to be taken into  accountin  arriving at the available surplus according to the	FullBench  Formula.	  Clause (14) appears to us to be  just	 onecondition  upon which the payment of production bonus  woulddepend, like some other clauses in the scheme.	For example,cl. (5) seems to provide that workers who work for less thanhalf the total number of working days in the financial	yearfor which bonus is being paid, shall not get any bonus,	 forit only makes those workers who work for more than half	 thetotal number of working days, worked out according to  otherrules,	entitled  to bonus.  Clause (6)	 says  that  certainkinds  of  workers will not be entitled	 to  bonus,  namely,Bungalow servants, Budli clerks or workers, temporary clerksor workers, casual workers or clerks.  It also provides thatany person guilty of any major misdemeanour may at the	solediscretion of the Mill Manager or the1033Cost Accountant not be given this bonus either in part or inwhole  as  a punishment, and that this would be	 done  aftertaking	proceedings in writing for the purpose.	 Clause	 (7)provides  another  condition as to what service	 will  counttowards earning bonus and what will not; for example,  leaveon full or part pay shall count as bonus service while leavewithout	 pay  will not count as Qualifying  service  towardsbonus.	 Again	cl.  (8) lays down that	 a  worker  will  beentitled  to  the  maximum bonus if he	works  for  all	 theworking days during the financial year, for which the  bonusis declared.  Clause (9) then provides how the maximum bonuscan  be	 reduced,  if a worker does not	 work  for  all	 theworking days.  Clause (14) therefore is also another  clausewhich may either lead to no payment of bonus or less paymentthan  prescribed under cl. (4).	 Further the fact that	thisis  not a profit bonus scheme but a production bonus  schemewill also be clear from what cl. (14) actually provides.  Itsays  that  if	the  conditions	 mentioned  in	it  are	 notfulfilled,  the workers would riot be entitled to  bonus  ormay  get  less.	  This	means that  if	the  conditions	 arefulfilled,  workers  would  be	entitled  to  bonus.	Now,suppose,  that the gross profit in a year is  sufficient  tomeet fixed dividends and interest, depreciation charges	 andtaxation   and	 10  percent.  dividend	 to   the   ordinaryshareholders.	Theereafter  the balance of profit  left  isOnly  (let  us say) Rs. 5/-.  But as the conditions  of	 cl.(14)  are  fulfilled,  the  workers  would  be	entitled  toproduction  bonus,  though  the	 amount	 of  Rs.  5/-  whichremains,  cannot  possibly meet the claim of bonus.   It  isclear  therefore that this bonus scheme is not the  same  asthe  profit bonus worked out under the Full  -Bench  formulaand  it cannot be called a profit bonus scheme	even  other-wise.  This is nothing more nor less than a pure  productionbonus	scheme	based  on  tonnage,  depending	on   certainconditions  one	 of which is related to profits	 also.	 Thenature of this bonus, therefore, in our opinion, is entirelydifferent  from	 the nature of profit bonus under  the	FallBench formula and we do not see why if there is an availablesurplus of profits1301034according to the Pull Bench formula, the workmen should	 notget  profit bonus in accordance with that formula.  The	 twothings,	 in  our opinion, are different.  Under	 the  schemewhat the workers get is a supplementary emolument worked outon  certain basis.  Under the Full Bench formula, what	theyget  is	 something  out	 of the	 profits,  if  there  is  anavailable surplus on the ground that both capital and labourcontribute  to	the accrual of profits and it  is  only-fairthat labour should get a part of it.In  this  connection our attention was drawn  to  MathuradasKanji  v.  Labour  Appellate  Tribunal	(1),  where  it	 wasobserved that " one of the categories of bonus is  describedas " incentive bonus ". The name indicates that it is  givenas  a  cash incentive to greater effort on the part  of	 thelabour.	  But  the essential condition for  the	 payment  ofincentive  bonus just like any other kind of bonus, is	thatthe  industry concerned must earn profits part of  which  isdue to the contribution which the workmen made in increasingproduction." That was not a case of production bonus at all.The  bonus  dealt with there was included  in  an  agreementbetween	 the  government and its contractors in	 a  contractrelating   to	clearing  and	transporting   of   importedfoodgrains.   It was provided that if the rate of  dischargefrom  a	 ship exceeded 1,500 tons per 24 hours and  no	sheddemurrage  was	incurred, the government would	pay  to	 thecontractors  remuneration  at the prescribed  rates  plus  abonus  of annas four per ton.  The workmen employed  by	 thecontractors claimed that this bonus should be given to them.That  claim  was negatived on the ground  that	the  workerscould  not  claim, on the terms of the	contract,  that	 thebonus  of  annas four-per ton was payable  to  them.   Theseobservations  made in a different setting have therefore  norelevance in the context of the production bonus scheme withwhich  we  are dealing here and which has become a  term  ofemployment of theworkmen.As for el. (18), it provides that if during the currency  ofthree years for which the scheme was to(1)..A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 899.1035remain	in force in the first instance, the  government	 en-forced	by legislation any scheme or provision for bonus  orprofit	sharing, the company may decide to cancel or  modifythe  scheme  in its entirety.  It is urged that	 this  showsthat the scheme was one for profit sharing or profit  bonus,because	 it  was  likely  to be	 cancelled  or	modified  iflegislation was introduced with respect to these.  It may bethat  the  scheme might have been cancelled or	modified  ifsuch  legislation was passed.  But that does not  mean	thatthe  scheme  itself provided for profit	 sharing  or  profitbonus.	It is one thing to cancel or modify a scheme becausethe  legislature steps in to provide for extra	payment	 forworkmen.  But the nature of the provision of law, which	 wasthen expected, cannot be imposed on this scheme, which	mustbe judged on its own terms; these leave no doubt that it  isnot  a	profit	bonus  scheme but  an  incentive  wage	plandepending  upon	 production  in the  main.   The  contentiontherefore that the bonus under the scheme is a profit  bonusand  therefore	the workmen are not entitled to	 the  profitbonus under the Full Bench formula must fail.Re. (5).The contention under this head is that even if profit  bonusis  payable  in addition to production bonus, there  was  noavailable  surplus  of	profits	 to  justify  the  AppellateTribunal  in  granting one month's bonus.  The	workmen	 hadasked  for  two month's bonus; but  the	 Appellate  Tribunalafter working out the available surplus on the basis of	 theFull Bench formula granted them one month's bonus.  The FullBench formula was evolved in 1950 in connection with a	caserelating  to  the textile industry and has been	 since	thengenerally applied to many- other industries.  The  necessityfor  evolving that formula arose in this way:  When  prices.are  stable  or	 falling, there is no  necessity  of  makingfurther	  provision   for  rehabilitation  for	 the   usualdepreciation,  provided for the purposes of  the  Income-taxAct,  is  sufficient to build up a fund for  replacement  ofplant and machinery when they are worn out; but when  pricesare  rising  the usual depreciation fund is  not  enough  toreplace plant and1036machinery  which become useless.  This was  particularly  soafter  the  end	 of  the last  war,  when  the	question  ofreplacing  machinery purchased before the war, i.e.,  before1939, came up before the Full Bench of the Labour  AppellateTribunal  in  1950.   In  order,  therefore,  to  meet	thisparticular situation arising out of a steep rise in  prices,the Full Bench formula was evolved to provide for a  furthersum  for  rehabilitation  out of  the  profits	besides	 thestatutory  depreciation.  This was on a notional  basis	 anddepended  upon a multiplier which was used to find  out	 thecurrent	 prices	 of machinery to be replaced and  a  divisorbased  on the useful life of the machinery to find out	whatsum  should  be	 provided  each year  for  what	 was  calledrehabilitation.	 In order, however, that this sum nationallyprovided  for  rehabilitation  each  year  has	a  realisticconnection  with  the  amount  in  fact	 necessary  for	 thepurpose, it is, in our opinion, necessary that what is knownas  the total block of a concern including land,  buildings,plant  and  machinery, should be  properly  sub-divided,  asotherwise  a flat multiplier at the same rate for the  totalblock  might not give an accurate amount to be provided	 forrehabilitation.	  It  is, therefore, necessary in  order  toarrive	 at   an   approximately   realistic   figure	 forrehabilitation	that the total block should be divided	intothree  heads,  namely,	(i) land,  (ii)	 buildings,  railwaysidings	 and things of that nature which have a much  longerlife and where imports are not needed, and (iii)  machinery.In  the	 case  of  land, no  replacement  is  necessary	 andtherefore nothing need be provided for rehabilitation  underthis  head.  Even where land is leasehold and the  lease  isexpiring,  any	payment	 for renewal of	 lease	will  be  anexpense	  and	need  not  enter   into	  calculations	 forrehabilitation.	 Further if there are buildings belonging tothe  concern on leasehold land, their rehabilitation  chargebe will allowable under the head buildings.  In the case  ofbuilding,-,,  railway sidings etc., the multiplier  will  besmaller while the divisor will be larger.  As for machinery,there  is  again  the  necessity  of  further  sub-division,according   to	when  the  machinery  was  purchased.	 Themachinery purchased1037before	the  last war stands on one footing and	 thus  therewill be a block of machinery which may be know as  pre-1939.The  second  block of machinery may well be  that  purchasedduring	the war and the last block that purchased after	 thewar.   The  last  two  are not	rigid  divisions;  but	theyindicate  that	machinery  has to  be  divided	into  blocksaccording  to  years  of purchase to  arrive  at  a  correctmultiplier and a correct divisor.Bearing	 these principles in mind, let us see how  the	FullBench formula works in this case.  We may mention that thereis  no	dispute	 in this case as to the	 components  of	 theformula,  the  only  dispute being confined  to	 its  actualapplication.  The company claimed a multiplier of 4.5 and  adivisor	 of  10, and on that basis gave a  chart  showing  adeficit	  of   112   lacs  in  the   amount   required	 forrehabilitation for 1951-52.  Another chart was also filed bythe company in which the multiplier was taken as 3.5 and thedivisor	 as 10, and the deficit was worked out at  65  lacs.What the company did was to take the total block  consistingof land, buildings, railway sidings and machinery, valued at468  lacs  and	multiply  it  by  4.5  or  3.5,	 making	  nodistinction between land, buildings and railway sidings, andmachinery.   The  divisor was also taken as  10,  making  nodistinction  again  between  these  three  categories,	 andfurther	  making  no  distinction  between   the   machinerypurchased  before  1939, during the last war and  after	 thelast   war.    This,  in  our  opinion,	 was   a   completelyunrealistic  way  of  working out the  amount  required	 forrehabilitation, and that is why the company was able to showin its charts such a large deficit.The Appellate Tribunal did not accept these charts.  It leftout  of	 account land altogether, and rightly  so.   As	 forbuildings, it applied a different multiplier and a differentdivisor, and so far as that is concerned no dispute has beenraised	before us.  As for machinery, consisting  of  plant,machinery,  bamboo  forest block,  furniture,  flotilla	 andvehicles,  it  divided the block for this purpose  into	 twoparts, namely, the block as it existed on April 1, 1947, andthe additions made1038between	 April	1, 1947, to March 31, 1951.   It  applied  amultiplier of 3 so far as the block upto April 1, 1947,	 wasconcerned and took the block of additions after 1-4-1947  atcost  price, thus using one as multiplier.  It is not  clearwhy  the  Appellate Tribunal did not include  the  additionsmade  in 1951-52.  The Appellate Tribunal also accepted	 thedivisor 10 for all this plant, machinery, etc., and made  nodifference   between  the  useful  life	 of  the   machinerypurchased at different times.  Eventually, after making	 therelevant calculations, it came to the conclusion that  therewas  an available surplus of profits amounting to  22  lacs.It,  therefore,	 awarded one month's profit bonus  on  basicnormal wage.It  is contended on behalf of the company that evidence	 hadbeen  produced	on  its behalf to show that  the  prices  ofmachinery  had	appreciated 4-1/2 times as compared  to	 theprices in 1939, and therefore, the multiplier of 4.5  shouldhave  been allowed at least on the block of machinery up  to1939.	Thereafter it is claimed that some multiplier  aboveone should be given for the block 1939-1947 and also for theblock  1947-51.	 It is further contended that the  additionsmade in 1951-52 should also have been taken into account.It may be mentioned that the Labour Appellate Tribunal whichevolved	 the  Full  Bench  formula  in	1950  had  used	 themultiplier  2.7	 in  that case for  prewar  block  and	thatmultiplier has been used since then in many other cases.  itis,  however,  contended  on  behalf  of  the  company	thatmultiplier is not sacrosanct, and if in fact there has	beena  greater  rise in price, there is no reason why  a  highermultiplier  should not be used.	 It may be accepted that  ifan  employer is able to prove that in fact there has been  agreater	 rise  in  price,  he  should  be  given  a   highermultiplier.  But there has to be good proof tendered by	 theemployer for the multiplier which he claims.Let  us see, therefore, what proof the company has  tenderedin this case for a multipler of 4.5 for the block upto April1, 1939.  In its written-statement the company said that  itwas a known fact that the1039price of plant and machinery had increased by 300 per  cent.to  400 percent. since before the war.	At that stage  therewas no claim that the price had increased 4-1/2 times  afterApril  1, 1939.	 The company's claim, therefore, as  put  inthe written-statement, was for a maximum multiplier of 4 forthe  block  upto  April 1, 1939.  In  the  evidence  of	 Mr.Taylor, who appeared as a witness for the company,  however,claim was made that prices had gone up by 4-1/2 times.	Thiswas  based  on	Ex.  D produced by  the	 company  which	 wascompiled  on the basis of inquiries about certain  machineryfrom certain firms and copies of the correspondence with thefirms were also produced.  Nineteen items were mentioned  inEx.   D and the average multiplier was worked out  as  4.56.Among  the  items  listed in Ex.  D  were  motors,  beaters,machine drive, paper-making machine, turbo-alternator, couchroll,  bamboo-crushers, bamboo-digesters,  boiler,  circulartanks  and three roaster smelter units.	 The total price  ofthese  items  was 19 lacs, (we have  converted	pounds	intorupees	for  this purpose). Besides these, there  are  otheritems,	like steam piping., steam tee, galvanized  bend	 andsteam bends, which are probably required in large quantitiesand the price per foot or per piece has been mentioned.	 Thecorrespondence which was attached to Ex.  D consists of fourletters,  one  of  September 1954 and three  of	 June  1955,relating   to  one  paper-making  machine  similar  to	 oneinstalled  in Mill No. 2, a turbo-alternator similar to	 oneinstalled  in  Mill No. 1, a machine drive  similar  to	 oneinstalled  in  Mill  No.  I and	 a  boiler  similar  to	 oneinstalled in Mill No. 1. Now, the cost of machinery block asat April 1, 1939, was of the order of 153 lacs while Ex.   Donly  deals  with  machinery  of the value  of	19  lacs  asmentioned  above.   Mr. Taylor did not say in  his  evidencethat Ex.  D was a sample and that other machines were of thesame type as mentioned in Ex. D or that the prices of  othermachinery bad gone up similarly or to the same extent.	Exs.D- 1 to D-4 indicate that the price of one out of ten paper-making machines was ascertained and nothing was	 ascertainedabout nine others.  Similarly prices of one1040turbo-alternator,  one machine drive and one boiler of	MillNo.  I were ascertained.  We do not know how many more	suchmachines  are  in  the two mills; nor do we  know  that	 theincrease  in prices of these types of machines is also	fourand  a half times.  In the circumstances, we feel  that	 thecompany	 has  failed to provide sufficient material  on	 thebasis  of which it can claim 4.5 as the multiplier.   It  isthe  company which is claiming that a certain multiplier  beused for calculating rehabilitation reserve, and it was	 itsduty  to  produce  good and sufficient evidence	 as  to	 thecorrect	 multiplier if it wants that multiplier to be  used.We  cannot  also forget that in	 its  written-statement	 thecompany	 only  claimed a rise of 300 per cent.	to  400	 percent.  on prewar price.	 In the circumstances, the  tribunalwas not unjustified in not giving the multiplier of 4.5.  Wealso  feel  that  in these circumstances  we  shall  not  bejustified in giving the company a multiplier higher than  4,for  that  was the maximum claim it had put forward  in	 itswritten-statement.   We	 should, however, like	to  make  itclear  that  though we are using the multiplier	 4  for	 theblock as at April 1, 1939, this should not be taken to be  aprecedent  for future years, even for this company,  and  itwill  be open to either party to adduce proper	evidence  toshow  what  the exact multiplier should be for	this  block,whether more than 4 or less.Then  we come to the block from April 1, 1939 to  March	 31,1947.	The  Tribunal gave the multiplier 3 for	 this  blockalso.  But that was because it gave the same multiplier	 forthe  entire  block as at 1947, including the  prewar  block.As, however, we are giving a multiplier of 4 for the  prewarblock, the multiplier 3 for the block April 1, 1939 to March31,  1947, can only be justified, if the company has  provedthat was the rise in the prices after 1939.  So far as	thatis  concerned,	the  company did not  produce  any  evidencebefore	the  Industrial Tribunal.  It seems,  however,	thatcertain	  documents  were  produced  before  the   AppellateTribunal  on June 12, 1956, when the appeals were ready	 forargument.  The order-sheet of June 12, 1956, shows that the1041Appellate Tribunal allowed four statements regarding certainmachines  given	 by  different, firms to  be  admitted	intoevidence.   Learned  counsel for the workmen object  to	 ourlooking into these statements on the ground that they  neverknew  that  any such statements had been filed at  the	lastmoment	before	the Appellate Tribunal and nobody  seems  tohave  relied  on  these	 statements  before  the   AppellateTribunal  and  the judgment also makes no mention  of  them.There seems to be a good deal of force in these contentions.However, looking at these statements, which have been  takenon  record, we find that they relate to ten items.  Four  ofthem  are  of the years 1945-48 and the	 increase  of  pricevaries	from 60 per cent. to 75 per cent.  Two are  of	1950and  the increase varies from 15 per cent. to 50 per  cent.,three  are  of 1951 and the increase varies  from  99.5	 percent. to 116 per cent., and one is of 1954 and the  increaseis  60 per cent.  The increased price is as of	1956.	Eventaking	these  documents  into account,	 we  feel  that	 thecompany	 cannot ask for a multiplier higher than 2  for	 theblock between 1939-1947.  But even this will not be taken asa  precedent for future and it will be open to either  partyto give better evidence in order to vary this multiplier oneway or the other.As  for	 the block after 1947, it appears that	the  companyadded machinery to the tune of 87 lacs between April 1, 1949and  March 31, 1952, while the prices quoted for  the  years1950 and 1951 in these documents were only of machines worth5  lacs.   We do not know whether this machinery is  of	 thesame  kind  as	that mentioned	in  these  documents.	Theycannot, therefore, be a guide for arriving at any multiplierhigher than one for this period relating to this block of 87lacs.  Here again we should like to make it clear that if infuture	years better evidence is produced, the	question  ofgiving	a  multiplier higher than I for this  block  can  beconsidered.This  disposes of the multipliers on the blocks of  machinesdivided	 into  three periods.  We now come to  the  divisor.Both the Tribunals have accepted 101311042as  the divisor on the evidence of Mr. Taylor.	We must	 saythat  it  looks	 odd to us that there  should  be  the	samedivisor	 for pre 1939 machinery, and  post-1939-but-pre-1947machinery,  and post-1947-but-pre1952 machinery.  It  standsto  reason that newer the machinery the larger must  be	 thedivisor	 for the newer machinery would have a longer  usefullife.	However, as both the Tribunals have accepted  to  asthe divisor for the entire machinery in this case, we  shallalso have to accept it; but we should like to make it  clearthat this should also not be taken as a precedent for futureyears  and it will be open to either party to show that	 thedivisor	 should be different, whether more or less than	 10,for  various  blocks  of machinery  relating  to  the  threeperiods.Let  us now work out the figures on the basis of  the  aboveconsiderations.	 We have taken the basic figures as suppliedto us by the learned counsel for the company :REHABILITATIONCOST     In lacsIn lacs     of.Rs.of Rs.(a) Plant & machinery as153.43 x4 = 613.72     at 1-4-1939:Machinery added between22.41 x2 = 44.82     1-4-1939 and 31-3-1947:Additions between 87.27 x 1 = 87.27 1-4-1947 and 31-3-1952:     Total745.81Less 5% breakdown value...13.15     Balance732.66Less depreciation upto 31-3-1951176.03     Balance556.63Less Reserves-     General Reserve25.49     Plant Replacement67.9893.47    Balance463.16     Dividing by 10.46.311043(b)  Buildings:Value of building   42.85 x 2.596.41as at 31-3-47:Additions between   21.1921.191-4-47 and 31-3-52:	     Total 117.60Less 5% breakdown   3.20   Balance			114.40Less depreciation upto			 47.21     31-3-1951:     Balance				  67.19Dividing by 27				  2.48Rehabilitation for-     (a) Plant & Machinery		   46.31     (b)Building			    2.48			      Total...48.79Less depreciation for 1951-52.		     16.50			      Balance  32.29Rehabilitation Amount for 1951-52:32.29Rehabilitation amount for 1951-52 thus comes to 32.29  lacs.In the charts supplied by the company the net profits  afterdeducting prior charges other than rehabilitation cost	wereworked out air 36.09 lacs.  We find, however, that there  isone  mistake in this calculation inasmuch as 76.3 lacs	havebeen included in working capital, though this 'was merely  abook entry and there was no cash corresponding to it. 4	 percent. interest was allowed on working capital and this wouldmean  that the net profits should increase by 3.05  lacs  asthat  interest	was  allowed extra in  the  company's  chartbefore	the  Appellate	Tribunal.  Thus the  amount  of	 netprofits	 available, before the allowance  of  rehabilitationcharges, comes to 39.14 lacs (36.09 + 3.05). Deducting 32.29lacs we arrive at the available surplus of profits amountingto  6.85  lacs	(39.14-32.29), which is	 to  be	 distributedequitably between the three sharers mentioned in the1044very decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal which evolvedthe  formula.  The total cost of one month's bonus on  basicwages  allowed	by the Appellate Tribunal is about  3  lacs.Taking all the circumstances of this case into considerationwe  do	not  think  that any case  has	been  made  out	 forinterference with this order of the Appellate Tribunal.	  Wemay  point out that we have not taken into  account  bamboo-mills  and  grass-block for reasons given by  the  AppellateTribunal, which commend themselves to us.This  brings  us to the appeal by the workmen.	 Only  threepoints	have been urged before us out of the many  taken  inthe  grounds  of appeal, and we shall deal only	 with  thesethree.	They are-(i)..The minimum basic wage should have been raised from Rs.30 to Rs. 35;(ii).Clerical  staff as well as Buidl and temporary  workersshould	have been included in the attendance  bonus  scheme;and(iii).....Profit  bonus	 should	 have been  allowed  at	 twomonths' basic wages for 1951-52 instead of one month's.Re. (i).Both  the Tribunals have rejected the claim for raising	 thebasic wage on the principle of " Industrycum-Region Rate  ofBasic  Wages ". The workmen relied on the wages paid in	 theBengal Paper Mills Ltd. at Raniganj, which is also a  paper-making	concern.  The minimum basic wage there is Rs.  38-3,dearness allowance Rs. 35 and the incentive wage is said  towork out to Rs. 7-5-6 per mensem, making the total Rs. 80-8-6.   In the present company, minimum basic wave is  Rs.	 30;dearness  allowance  is Rs. 35; house allowance	 is  Rs.  2;attendance bonus works out to Rs. 8 and production bonus  isabout Rs. 3, making a total of Rs. 78.	It will thus be seenthat   the  difference	is  not	 great.	  Further,  if	 theproduction  bonus  and	incentive wage are  not	 taken	intoaccount,  the present company pays Rs. 75 per  mensem  whilethe  Raniganj company pays Rs. 73-3.  In the  circumstances,we  see no reason for interfering with the concurrent  orderof the two Tribunals.1045Re. (ii).The   Tribunals	 rejected  the	claim  for   extending	 theattendance bonus scheme to clerical staff, budli workers andtemporary workers.  They were of the view that these workmenstand  on a different footing.	For the clerical  staff	 thereason	given  was that they enjoyed the  advantage  of	 theincremental  scales  which were till then  denied  to  othercategories  of mill hands for whose benefit  the  attendancebonus scheme was introduced.  As for the budli and temporaryworkers,  the  Tribunals said that the scheme could  not  beapplied	 to them on account of uncertainty of the tenure  oftheir  service.	 So far as the budli and  temporary  workersare  concerned,	 the  reason  given  by	 the  Tribunals	 fortreating  them	differently appears to us to  justify  theirbeing  excluded.  As to clerical staff, it appears from	 thecorrespondence	which  ensued  between	the  union  and	 thecompany on the introduction of attendance bonus scheme	thatthe  scheme was introduced primarily in connection with	 theinstallation  of  a  time keeping office.   The	 clerks	 areobviously  in a different category from the workmen  engagedin actual production.  In the circumstances, apart from	 theconsiderations	which were considered by the two  Tribunals,there is, in our opinion, justification for treating  clerksin  a  different way from other workmen.  The  company	alsotold  the  union  that	so far as they	knew  no  scheme  ofattendance  bonus had ever been applied to clerks,  probablybecause	 absenteeism among clerks is not so great  as  amongother workmen.	We see no reason, therefore, to disturb	 theconcurrent finding of the two Tribunals in this matter.Re. (iii).We  have already worked out above the available	 surplus  ofprofits, from which profit bonus can be given, The amount ofavailable  surplus comes to 6.85 lacs and one month's  basicwages,	which  have been allowed as profit  bonus,  come  toabout	3  lacs.   The	percentage  therefore	is   alreadysufficiently high and if profit bonus is allowed at the rateof two months' basic wages it will come to about 6 lacs and1046would be more or less equal to the entire available surplus.It  is	well settled that the available surplus	 has  to  bedivided	  in  a	 fair  manner  between	the  industry,	 theshareholders  and  the workmen.	 We cannot forget  that	 theworkmen	 have also got production bonus for this  Year.	  Inthe  circumstances,  there  is no scope	 for  grant  of	 anyfurther	 profit bonus beyond that allowed by  the  AppellateTribunal.We,  therefore, partly allow the appeals of the company	 andvary  the  production  bonus rate in  the  Manner  indicatedabove.	 We dismiss the appeals of the company with  respectto profit bonus.  We also dismiss the appeal of the workmen.In  view of the fact that the parties have partly  succeededand partly failed, we order them to bear their own costs  ofthis court in all the appeals.Appeals Nos. 450 and 451 allowed in part.Appeal No. 514 dismissed.