PETITIONER:MUKTI LAL AGARWALA	Vs.RESPONDENT:TRUSTEES OF THE PROVIDENT FUND OFTHE TIN PLATE CO.  OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:14/02/1956BENCH:AIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARABENCH:AIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARABOSE, VIVIANIMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR  336		  1956 SCR  100ACT:Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 (V of 1920), s. 4-Insolvencyof employees of a company-Having certain amounts standing totheir  credit  in the Provident Fund of	 the  said  company-Whether	 the  said  amounts  were  the	properties  of	 theinsolvents over which they had disposing power and were thusavailable  for distribution amongst the	 creditors-ProvidentFund-Rules-Construction-Word  "Property" in  the  InsolvencyAct-Meaning of.HEADNOTE:The  six employees in the Tin Plate Co. of India  Ltd.	wereadjudged insolvents.  They were members in a Provident	Fundof  the	 said company, having certain  amounts	standing  totheir credit in the Fund.The appellants creditor of the said employees-filed applica-tions  under s. 4 of the Insolvency Act against the  companyand Trustees of the Fund for orders that amounts standing tothe  credit of the insolvents in the Provident Fund  accountwere  their properties and had vested in the court and	wereavailable   for	 distribution  amongst	the  creditors	 andtherefore should be brought into court.The respondent pleaded in answer that the amount standing tothe   credit  of  each	insolvent  in  the  Provident	Fundrepresented  the  contributions of the company	and  of	 theemployees and that the corpus was a trust fund in the  handsof the trustees of the fund; so they were not properties  ofthe  insolvents	 over which they had a disposing  power	 andthat they were not debts due to the insolvents.	 It was saidthat according to the rules governing the Provident Fund themonies become payable to the employee or any other member ofhis  family only on the happening of  certain  contingenciessuch  as retirement, discharge, dismissal or death and	thattill then no right accrued to the insolvent.  It was furtherurged  that  the  trustees could not  be  removed  from	 thecustody and control of the fund by the Official Receiver.On  a construction of the Rules of the Provident  Fund,	 theInsolvency Court held in favour of the creditor.  On appeal,the  High Court held that under the rules of the  Fund,	 theinsolvents  had no present disposing power over	 the  moniesstanding to their credit and that the Fund had vested in theTrustee.  On appeal to the Supreme Court:Held  that  it is reasonably clear from these rules  that  asubscriberhas  a	present interest in the Fund though the	 moneys	 maybecome	payable to him, or his nominee or heirs only in	 thefuture.	 Even where there is a declaration about the nomineewho is to receive payment after the subscriber's death,	 thefund  would still be the property of the subscriber  in	 thehands  of the nominee for the satisfaction of his debts,  asthere is no present gift to take effect immediately.It  could  not	be maintained that the	subscribers  had  noright,	title or interest in the fund or that such  interestas   they  may	possess	 was  dependent	 upon	a   possiblecontingency which may or may not occur.	 The amount standingto  the	 credit of a subscriber even if	 payable  in  futurewould be a debt due by the company to him within the meaningof  s.	60 of the Code and hence liable	 to  attachment	 andsale.  A person cannot enter into any arrangement or agreement bywhich  his own title will cease in the event  of  bankruptcyfor  it would then be a fraud perpetrated on the  InsolvencyLaw.The liability of the estate to be attached by creditors on abankruptcy or judgment is an incident of the estate, and  noattempt to deprive it of that incident by direct prohibitionwould be valid.Notwithstanding	 the rules of the Fund in the present  case,the  subscribers  have an interest in the moneys  which	 canvest in the Official Receiver on their adjudication.The  word  "property" in the Insolvency Act is used  in	 thewidest possible sense which includes even property which maybelong	to  or	is  vested in another  but  over  which	 theinsolvent  has a disposing power which he may  exercise	 forhis  own  benefit;  and	 this part  of	the  definition	 hasreference  obviously to powers of appointment and the  powerof  a  Hindu  father who is the managing ember	of  a  jointfamily.	  The fact that on the date of the adjudication	 theinsolvent could not transfer the property does not  militateagainst the view that he has a vested interest in the same.  Banchharam  Mojumdar	v. Adyanath  Bhattacharjee,  ([1909]I.L.R.	36 Cal. 936), Dugdale v. Dugdale ([1888] 38 Ch.	  D.176),  Ex  parte Dever.	 In re Suse and	 Sibeth	 ([1887]  18Q.B.D.	  660),	 Hudson v. Gribble ([1903] 1 K.B.  517),  D.Palaiya v.T.   P.  Sen and another (A.I.R. 1935	 Pat.  211),Secretary, Burma OilSubsidiary  Provident  Fund (India) Ltd. v.  Dadibhar  Singh(A.I.R.	  1941	Rang.  256),  Gajraj  Sheokarandas  v.	 SirHukamchand  Sarupchand	and another (A.I.R. 1939  Bom.	90).Anandrao  alias Adkoba s/o Risaram-ji v.  Vishwanath  WatujiKalar  and others, (A.I.R. 1944 Nag. 144), Ismail Jokaria  &Co.  v. Burmah Shell Provident Trust Ltd. (A.I.R. 1942	Sind47), Bishwa Nath Sao v. The Official Receiver ([1936] I.L.R.16 Pat. 60), and Sat Narain v. Behari Lal and Others ([1924]52 I.A. 22), referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil AppealsNos. 123 to 127 and 135 of 1953.102On  appeal from the judgment and decree dated the  12th	 May1950 of the Patna High Court in Appeal from Original  OrdersNos. 266, 267, 268, 271, 274 and 280 of 1948 arising out  ofthe  Order  dated  the 26th June 1948 of the  Court  of	 theDistrict  Judge,  Purulia  in Insolvency  Cases	 Nos.  1/44,13/46, 12/46, 10/46 and 44/41, respectively.S.   C.	 Isaacs	 (P.   K.  Chatterjee,	with  him)  for	 theappellant.  Bhabananda  Mukherji, S. N. Mukherji and B. N. Ghose,	 forthe respondents.1956.  February 14.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyCHANDRASEKHARA	AIYAR J.-These appeals are by a creditor  ofsix  employees	in the Tin Plate Co. of India Ltd.  who	 hadbeen  adjudged insolvents.  The employees are members  in  aProvident  Fund of the Tin Plate Co. and there were  amountsstanding to their credit in the said Fund.  The creditor, Mukti Lal Agarwala, filed applications undersection 4 of the Insolvency Act for orders that the  amountsstanding  to the credit of the insolvents in  the  ProvidentFund  account  were their properties and had vested  in	 thecourt  and  were  available  for  distribution	amongst	 thecreditors.   He	 sought a direction that the monies  may  bebrought	 into Court.  The petitions were directed  primarilyagainst	 the  Tin  Plate Co. Ltd. and the  Trustees  of	 theProvident  Fund.   They pleaded in answer  that	 the  amountstanding  to the credit of each insolvent in  the  ProvidentFund represented the contributions of the Company and of theemployees and that the corpus was a trust fund in the  handsof the trustees of the fund; so they were not properties  ofthe  insolvents	 over which they had a disposing  power	 andthat they were not debts due to the insolvents.	 It was saidthat according to the rules governing the Provident Fund themonies become payable to the employee or any other member ofhis  family only on the happening of certain  contingencies'such as retirement, discharge,103dismissal  or death and that till then no right	 accrued  tothe insolvent.	It was further urged that the trustees couldnot  be removed from the custody and control of the fund  bythe Official Receiver.  The Insolvency Court, which was the court of the  DistrictJudge  at  Purulia,  heard  the petitions  and	found  on  aconstruction  of  the rules of the Provident Fund  that	 themonies standing to the credit of A & C accounts in the	nameof  each  insolvent  was his property over which  he  had  adisposing   power   and	 hence	they  were   available	 fordistribution among the creditors under the Insolvency Act.  The trustees of the Fund and the Tin Plate Co. carried thematter	on  appeal to the High Court at Patna and  the	theywere  successful.   The	 learned Judges	 (V.  Ramaswami	 andSarjoo Prasad, JJ.) held that under the rules governing	 theFund the insolvents had no present disposing power over	 themonies standing to their credit and that the Fund was reallyvested in the trustees.  As  the  amount involved in the  several  petitions  takentogether  was over Rs. 20,000, the High Court granted  leaveto the creditors to appeal to this court.The  main contentions urged by Mr. Isaacs on behalf  of	 theappellants were three in number:-  (a)	  The	monies	standing  to  the  credit  of	eachinsolvent  in  the Provident Fund are his  property,  thoughpayable	 at  a	future	date and  the  question	 of  presentdisposing power arises only for bringing within the scope ofthe  definition	 what  may  not	 otherwise  be	regarded  as"property".  (b)	  Though  the Provident Fund rules speak of a  trustFund  and  trustees, in reality, there was  no	transfer  ofownership  by  the employees in favour of the  trustees	 andthat there is no trust as such. (c) In	 any  event, even on the footing that  a  trust	 wascreated over the Fund, the beneficial interest continues  inthe  employees and this interest would vest in the  OfficialReceiver for the benefit of the creditors in insolvency. We have to examine the soundness of these contentions.104The  Provident	Fund was started on the 1st  January,  1929.The rules and regulations of this Fund are found in the deedof  trust  dated the 15th July, 1930, marked as	 Exhibit  1.These  rules,  as  amended  from time  to  time	 in  certainrespects  by supplementary deeds, are given in the  appendixto this judgment.  On  the making of an order of adjudication, the  whole  ofthe property of the insolvent shall vest in the court or  ina  Receiver and shall become divisible among the  creditors.(Section  28  (2) of the Provincial  Insolvency	 Act).	 Theproperty of the insolvent for the purposes of vesting  shallnot  include any property which is exempted by the  Code  ofCivil  Procedure,  or by any other enactment  for  the	timebeing  in  force from liability to attachment  and  sale  inexecution of a decree (section 28(5)).	Section 2(d) of	 theAct states:" 'Property' includes any property over which  orthe profits of which any person has a disposing power  whichhe  may	 exercise  for his own benefit".   A  person  has  adisposing power over property which he may exercise for	 hisown benefit, such as a power of appointment conferred on himunder a will or a settlement, or the power of a Hindu fatherwho  is	 the  manager of a joint Hindu family  to  sell	 theshares	of his sons in the family property in  discharge  oftheir pious obligation to pay off his debts.  In clause	 (b)of  sub-section (2) of section 38 of the English  BankruptcyAct, 1914, this power is specified in these words:-  "The	capacity  to exercise and to  take  proceedings	 forexercising  all	 such  powers in or over or  in	 respect  ofproperty  as might have been exercised by the  bankrupt	 forhis  own  benefit at the commencement of his  bankruptcy  orbefore	his discharge, except the right of nomination  to  avacant ecclesiastical benefice;".  All  that  we	 have to find out  is  whether	the  amountsstanding  to  the credit of the several subscribers  in	 thefund  who have been adjudged insolvents are divisible  amongtheir creditors.  If so, they would vest105in  the	 court	or the Official Receiver  and  would  becomeavailable  for distribution.  Whether they have any  presentinterest in the monies is the primary question that falls tobe considered.  Section  60  of  the Civil Procedure Code  sets  out	whatproperty is liable to attachment and sale and what items arenot.  The first part of section 60 runs in these terms:  "The	following property is liable to attachment and	salein  execution  of a decree namely, lands, houses,  or  otherbuildings,  goods,  money,  bank-notes,	 cheques,  bills  ofexchange,  hundis, promissory notes, Government	 securities,bonds  or  other securities for money, debts,  shares  in  acorporation  and, save as hereinafter mentioned,  all  othersaleable  property, movable or immovable, belonging  to	 thejudgmentdebtor,	 or over which, or the profits of which,  hehas  a	disposing power which he may exercise  for  his	 ownbenefit,  whether  the	same  be held in  the  name  of	 thejudgment-debtor or by another person in trust for him or  onhis behalf".  The  exempted items do not apply.  Clause (k)	 deals	withfunds  governed by the Provident Fund Act.   Reference	has,however,  been	made  to  clause (m)  which  speaks  of	 "anexpectancy  of	succession by survivorship or  other  merelycontingent or possible right or interest".  Let us now advert to the relevant rules of the Fund.	 Theobject of the Fund as set out in rule 2 is to accumulate forthe  benefit of the Company's employees who have joined	 theFund  certain  sums as a future provision for them  and	 fortheir  families.   Under  rule	3,  any	 employee,  who	 hascompleted  one	year's service with the	 Company,  shall  beeligible for membership.  Rule 4 provides for a	 declarationas  regards  the  disposition of the Fund in  the  event  ofdeath.	This declaration can be cancelled and changed.	Rule5  provides  that if the declaration becomes  obsolete,	 thetrustees could decide who were to be recognized as the next-of-kin	and that payment by them to such person will  be  anabsolute  discharge.   Every  member  shall  be	 allowed  tocontribute any11106sum  not  exceeding one-twelfth of his or her  earnings	 andsuch amounts would be credited in the name of each member inan account called 'A' Account  (Rule 6).  At the end of eachyear,  an  amount equal to the contribution  by	 the  membershall be paid by the Company and credited to another accountto be opened in the name of the member and to be denominatedhis  or her 'B' Account.  An increased contribution  by	 theCompany	 in certain events at particular specified rates  iscontemplated by rule 7(B).  This further sum will go into  a'C' account to be opened in the name -of each member.	Rule8 provides that the moneys of the Fund shall be invested  bythe Trustees in accordance with the provisions from time  totime  in force under the Indian Income-tax (Provident  FundsRelief)	 Act, 1929.  Every year the A, B and C Accounts	 areto  be	made up including the income  from  the	 investmentsaccording to certain calculations.  Then come the important rules 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17 &18.   Though the Fund is intended as a future provision	 forthe  employees and their families, the membership is  purelyvoluntary  and arises on an application to the Company,	 thetrustees  having  nothing to do with the admission.   It  isonly the management of the Fund and the control of its fundswhich  vests  in  the trustees under rule  1.  There  is  notransfer  of the ownership of the Fund.	  The  contributionsmade by the members are not compulsory in their nature.	 Themonies	of  the	 Fund  may, no doubt,  be  invested  by	 thetrustees,  but	the subscriber does not	 divest	 himself  orherself of control over the Fund in certain respects.  He orshe  can  declare to whom the monies are to be paid  in	 theevent of his or her death.  This declaration can be  changedat any time.  If the service terminates after fifteen years,the  subscriber	 can  get the full amount in  the  A,B	&  CAccounts.   If he or she retires with the Company's  consentbefore	completion of fifteen years' service, he or she	 canget  the amounts standing in A & C Accounts together with  aportion	  in  B	 account.   Dismissal,	or  misconduct,	  orresignation without the107Company's  consent before completion of the 15	years  wouldstill entitle the subscriber to the payment of the moneys inA & C Accounts.	 The provision in rule 16 that on the  deathof  any member, the amount will be paid to the	next-of-kin,of  course  proceeds on the same footing that  the  propertybelongs to the subscriber. , Whether the provisions that  inthe event of the declaration becoming obsolete, or a  memberbecoming  insane or demented, the moneys can be paid at	 theabsolute  discretion  of  the trustees	to  whomsoever	theydetermine to be the next-of-kin, or hold to be a proper	 andsuitable  person  to  receive payment, are valid  is  not  aquestion that arises in these appeals.  Retirement  or death is not a mere possibility.  It  is  acontingency  that  is  sure  to	 happen,  sooner  or  later.Dismissal  for	misconduct or  resignation  without  consentbefore 15 years' service will secure earlier payment.  (Rule11).  It is reasonably clear from these rules that a  subscriberhas  a	present interest in the Fund though the	 moneys	 maybecome	payable to him, or his nominee or heirs only in	 thefuture.	 Even where there is a declaration about the nomineewho is to receive payment after the subscriber's death,	 thefund  would still be the property of the subscriber  in	 thehands  of the nominee for the satisfaction of his debts,  asthere is no present gift to take effect immediately.  It is not easy to see how it could be maintained that	 thesubscribers have no right, title or interest in the fund, orthat  such interest as they may possess is dependent upon  apossible contingency which may or may not occur.  The amountstanding  to the credit of a subscriber even if	 payable  infuture would be a debt due by the Company to him within	 themeaning	 of  section  60 of the Code  and  hence  liable  toattachment  and sale.  See Banchharam Majumdar	v.  AdyanathBhattacharjee(1). Rule  17,  which provides that on the adjudication  of	 thedebtor as an insolvent the amounts standing to his credit inthe Fund shall be liable to be forfeited(1)  [1909] I.L.R. 36 Cal 936.108to  the Fund, was strongly relied upon by  the	respondents.But  such  a condition or agreement is invalid.	 A  man	 maygive  (in  India only by will) property or its income  to  adonee with a condition that the donee's interest will  ceaseon  bankruptcy	and the property will in that  event  go  toanother;  if  insolvency supervenes, the property  will	 notvest in the Official Receiver.	If there is no gift over  onthe cesser of the donee's interest, the property will revertto  the donee and will vest in the Official Receiver on	 thedonee's	 insolvency.   But a person cannot  enter  into	 anyarrangement  or agreement by which his own title will  ceasein  the	 event of bankruptcy, for it would then be  a  fraudperpetrated on the Insolvency Law.  This principle has	beenenunciated  in an early English case Wilson v.	Greenwood(1)in the following words and adopted in later cases too:  "The	general distinction seems to be, that the  owner  ofproperty  may,	on alienation, qualify the interest  of	 hisalienee,  by a condition to take effect on  bankruptcy;	 butcannot,	 by contract or otherwise, qualify his own  interestby  a like condition, determining or controlling it  in	 theevent of his own bankruptcy, to the disappointment or  delayof his creditors".In Re Dugdale(2) we find the following observations of	Kay,J.-  "The	liability of the estate to be attached by  creditorson  a bankruptcy or judgment is an incident of	the  estate,and  no	 attempt to deprive it of that	incident  by  directprohibition would be valid.  If a testator, after giving  anestate in fee simple to A, were to declare that such  estateshould	not  be subject to the bankruptcy laws,	 that  wouldclearly be inoperative.	 I apprehend that this is the  test.An  incident  of the estate given which cannot	be  directlytaken  away or prevented by the donor cannot be	 taken	awayindirectly  by a condition which would cause the  estate  torevert	to  the	 donor, or by a	 conditional  limitation  orexecutory devise which would(1)  [1818] 86 E.R. 469, 476; 1 Swans. 471, 485.(2)  (1888) 38 Ch. 1). 176, 182.109cause it to shift to another person".The proposition is thus stated in Williams on Bankruptcyt(1)at page 293: "But the owner of property cannot, by  contractor  otherwise,	qualify	 his own  interest  by	a  conditiondetermining  or	 controlling  it in the	 event	of  his	 ownbankruptcy to the prejudice of his creditors".  It  appears  to us to be unnecessary to refer to  all	 thedecisions  cited  and  relied  upon in	the  course  of	 thearguments  on  either side.  A few cases  may,	however,  bedealt  with.   The  English decisions  relied  upon  by	 thelearned	 counsel  for  the appellant  do  not  furnish	muchguidance.   Ex part Dever.  In re Suse and Sibeth(2)  was  acase  of what is obviously a contingent	 interest  dependentupon  a	 mere  possibility.   The  decision  in	 Hudson	  v.Gribble(3)  dealt  with	 a  different  question	 altogether.Under a scheme framed by the Municipal Corporation,  personsin  its	 service  were	to contribute  to  a  Fund  for	 theencouragement of thrift among their officers and servants  acertain	 percentage  of their salaries to be  deducted	fromtime  to  time from those salaries.  Were they	exempt	frompayment of income-tax under the first rule of section 146 ofthe Income-Tax Act, 1842, was answered in the negative.	 Thepoint  was whether they were exempt because they were  "sumspayable	 or chargeable on the salaries by virtue of any	 Actof Parliament where the same have been really and bona	fidepaid and borne by the party to be charged".  It is true thatLord Justice Vaughan Williams says at page 525 that the sumscontributed  never ceased to be the property of the  personsfrom  whose salaries or wages they were deducted;  and	LordJustice	 Stirling observes at page 528 "It is obvious  that,though	the amounts so deducted are not immediately paid  tothe  person  employed, they remain his property to  a  greatextent".    Both  of  them  refer  to  the  fact  that	 thesubscribers  were entitled to get back	their  contributionsupon retiring from the service.	 But they were dealing	withparticular words employed in an Act of Parliament(1) 16th Eaition.	       (2) [1887] 18 Q.B.D. 660.(3)  [1903] 1.K.B. 517,110and  the  rules	 made  under  a	 Corporation  Act.   Generalobservations  of the kind should not be extracted  from	 thecontext	 in which they were used and applied to other  factsand different language.  Coming  to the Indian decisions, D. Palaiya v. T.  P.	 Senand another(1) is a case where the rules of a provident fundcreated by the Tata Steel Company were similar to the  ruleswe have before us but the forfeiture clause was construed asapplying only to the portion of the amount at the credit  ofmembers' account contributed by the -company and it was readto  mean  that it was inapplicable to the  subscribers'	 owncontributions.	 Secretary, Burma Oil  Subsidiary  ProvidentFund  (India) Ltd. v. Dadibhar Singh(2) which  held  againstthe  vesting  proceeded upon the footing that  there  was  atrust  created in favour of the trustees.  Even if so,	whatwas to happen to the beneficial interest was not dealt with.The relevant observations are:  "The	forfeiture does not vest the money in the  trustees,the  money having already vested in them.  The money  cannotbe attached as a 'debt' due to the judgment-debtor,  becausethe word 'debt' as used in S. 60 and in 0. 21, R. 46,  CivilProcedure  Code	 means an actually existing debt that  is  aperfected and absolute debt, not merely a sum of money whichmay  or	 may not become payable at some future time  or	 thepayment of which depends upon contingencies which may or maynot happen". The  decision	of  Beaumont,, C. J. and  Rangnekar,  J.  inGajraj	 Sheokarandas  v.  Sir	Hukamchand  Sarupchand	 andanother(1)  does not apply because in that case there was  aclause in the articles providing that all moneys received bythe East India Cotton Association from its members would  beunder  the absolute control of the Association and could  beused  by  it  as if the moneys belonged	 to  it	 absolutely.Further	 the  deposit  was also subject	 to  certain  liens.Subject	  to  the  liability  to  forfeiture  and   to	 thesatisfaction  of  the liens, the deposit with  interest	 wasrepayable to(1) A.I.R. 1935 Pat. 211.  (2) A.I.R. 1941 Rang. 256, 259.(3) A.I.R. 1939 Bom.90.111the  member  on his ceasing from any cause to be  a  member.The  facts were, therefore, very different.  Anandrao  aliasAdkoba	 s/o  Risaramji	 v.  Vishwanath	 Watuji	 Kalar	 andothers(1)  is again a case where the money ceased to  belongto  the	 employee  and	the  title  was	 in  the   trustees.Referring to a Karachi case reported in Ismail Jakaria & Co.v.   Burmah-Shell   Provident  Trust   Ltd.(2),	  Bose,	  J.distinguished it on the ground that there the money was	 notvested in the trustees but was only handed over to them	 forthe  purposes of management, which was not the	case  beforehim.The  learned counsel for the respondents strongly relied  onBishwa Nath Sao v. The Official Receiver(3) and argued	thatthere  can  be	no  property  within  the  meaning  of	 theInsolvency  Act unless the insolvent had a present  absolutepower  of disposal over the same but the decision  which  isthat  of a Full Bench and which interpreted the decision  ofthe  Privy Council in Sat Narain v. Behari Lal(4)  does	 notsupport any such position- all that was held was that on theinsolvency of a father, his power to sell the shares of	 hissons  in  the joint family property to discharge  the  piousobligation vests in the Official Receiver, though the sharesthemselves do not so vest. Sufficient  has  been	stated	above  to  show	 that	not-withstanding the rules of the Fund in the present case,	 thesubscribers have an interest in the moneys which can vest inthe  Official  Receiver on their adjudication.	Even  if  weregard	the  deed  creating  the  fund	as  a  trust   deed,notwithstanding	 that, no ownership has been transferred  tothe trustees and all that they have got is the right of	 themanagement and control, the subscribers, who joined the fundhave  undoubtedly got a beneficial interest which will	vestin  the Official Receiver as property liable  to  attachmentand  sale under section 60 which uses the language  "whetherthe  same be held in the name of the judgment-debtor  or  byanother person in interest for him or in his behalf".(1)  A.I.R. 1944 Nag. 144.(3)  [1937] I.L.R. 16 Patna 60.(2)  A.I.R. 1942 Sind 47.(4)  [1924] L.R. 52 I.A. 22,112 The  learned  Judges  of  the	High  Court  held  that	 the'property' mentioned in the Insolvency Act must be such thatthe  insolvent	has an absolute	 and  unconditional  presentdisposing  power over the same.	 With great  respect,  this,however, does not seem to be a correct interpretation.	 Theword  'property' is used in the widest possible sense  whichincludes  even property which may belong to or is vested  inanother	 but over which the insolvent has a disposing  powerwhich  he may exercise for his own benefit; and	 as  pointedout  already,  this  part of the  definition  has  referenceobviously to powers of appointment and the power of a  Hindufather	who  is the managing member of a joint	family.	 Thefact that on the date of the adjudicationthe insolvent couldnot transfer the property doesnot militate against the	viewthat  be has a vested interest in the same.   Reference	 wasmade to section 56(3) of the Provincial Insolvency Act whichprovides  that "Where the Court appoints a receiver, it	 mayremove	the person in whose possession or custody  any	suchproperty  as  aforesaid is from the  possession	 or  custodythereof:  Provided  that nothing in this  section  shall  bedeemed to authorise the court to remove from the  possessionor custody of property any person whom the insolvent has nota present right so to remove".  This	has  no relevancy to the point at  issue.   Wheneverpossession  and custody could be taken by the Receiver,	 theperson	in whose possession and custody the property is	 canbe  evicted.  If possession or custody could not  be  taken,still  the right of the insolvent will vest in the  OfficialReceiver.  Mention has been made of three accounts in the Fund calledA,  B and C; the first represents monies contributed by	 thesubscriber,  the  second  consists of  monies  paid  by	 theCompany	 and  the  third  represents  what  may	 be  roughlydescribed  as  bonus which represents deferred	wages.	 Thelearned	 counsel  for the appellant confined the  relief  hewanted	to  the	 .amounts standing to  the  credit  of	eachsubscriber  in his A and C Accounts and conceded that the  BAccount monies would stand on a different footing.  In113fact,  even in the Insolvency Court the	 creditor  concernedhimself only with the A & C Accounts. Mr.  Isaacs contended at first that he was entitled  to  anorder  that  the  monies in the A &  C	Accounts  should  bebrought to the Insolvency Court but later he abandoned	thiscontention.   For the respondents, it was urged	 that  undersection	 10  of the Employees' Provident  Funds	 Act,  1952,which	came  into  force  after  these	  proceedings	wereinstituted,  there could be no attachment.  This again is  aquestion   which  is  outside  the  scope  of  the   presentproceedings.   Once  it is held that the  right,  title	 andinterest  of the insolvents in the A & C Accounts  with	 theFund vest in the Official Receiver, it is for him under	 thedirections of the Insolvency Court to take steps to  realizethe same, in whatever manner the law allows him to do. The  learned  counsel for the respondents handed  to  us  apaper showing which of the respondents was still in  serviceand which have been discharged, their dates of	appointmentsand  of	 joining  the  posts.	Mohibulla,  Anjab  Alli	 andHasimulla,  respondents insolvents in Civil Appeal No.	124,Civil  Appeal  No. 127 and Civil Appeal No. 126,  have	beenshown  as discharged from service.  A.M. Joseph, Rasid	Allialias  Tasim  Alli, and Baldev Singh, respondents  in  CivilAppeals 135, 125 and 123, joined the Fund in 1933, 1932	 and1936 respectively and are still in service. In  the  result, the appeals are partly allowed  and  therewill be a declaration that the right, title and interest  ofthe  above  mentioned insolvents in the moneys	standing  totheir credit in A & C Accounts respectively will vest in theOfficial Receiver.  In other respects the appeals will standdismissed.  The Tin Plate Co. which is the respondent No. 2,will  pay  to the appellant his costs here and in  the	HighCourt.	But the costs in this Court will be limited only  toone set.			 APPENDIX.This Indenture made the fifteenth day of July, one  thousandnine hundred and thirty BETWEEN THE15114TINPLATE COMPANY OF INDIA LIMITED a Joint Stock Company withLimited	  Liability  duly  incorporated	 under	the   IndianCompanies  Act	and having its Registered Office at  No.  4,Bankshall Street in the City of Calcutta (hereinafter called"the  Company"	of  the first part  HARRY  DOUGHLAS  TOWNENDCHARLES ROLAND HATFIELD AND JAMES PERCY AINSCOUGH all of No.4, Bankshall Street aforesaid Merchants (hereinafter  calledthe  "the Trustees" which expression shall mean and  includethe  said Harry Douglas Townend Charles Roland Hatfield	 andJames  Percy Anscough or other the -"-Trustees of  the	fundherein mentioned for the time being appointed as hereinaftermentioned)  of the Second Part and the PERSONS	whose  namesappear	in  the	 Schedule  hereto or  who  may	by  separatewritings agree to become parties hereto and bound hereby  ofthe  third part WHEREAS the Company has decided to start  asfrom the first day of January one thousand nine hundred	 andtwenty-nine  a	Provident  Fund	 for  the  benefit  of	 theemployees  of  the  Company (hereinafter  called  "the	saidfund")	and  has accepted contributions from  the  employeesfrom  the  first  January, one	thousand  nine	hundred	 andtwenty-nine  and for the management and regulations of	suchfund  has framed rules and 'regulations NOW  THIS  INDENTUREWITNESSETH  and	 it  is hereby agreed  between	the  partieshereto that the said Fund shall be governed by the followingrules and regulations:		   Rules and Regulations1.   The Fund shall be called "THE PROVIDENT FUND OF THE TINPLATE COMPANY OF INDIA LIMITED".  The management of the Fundand the control of its funds shall be vested in the Trusteeswho will undertake such management without remuneration.2.   The object of the Fund is to accumulate for the benefitof the Company's Employees who have joined  115the Fund certain sums as a future provision for them and fortheir families.3.   All  employees  of	 the Company  (excepting  only	suchcovenanted  employees on the higher grades of pay as may  beexcluded   by  the  Trustees  at  their	  discretion)	uponcompletion of one year's services with the Company shall  beeligible  for membership of the Fund.  Applications to	jointhe  Fund shall be in writing to the Company in a  specifiedform and written notification shall be given by the  Companyto applicants of their inclusion as members.4.   Every  application for membership shall be	 accompaniedby a declaration in a specified form signed by the applicantin the presence of two witnesses who shall not be in any wayrelated to the applicant.  Such declaration shall set  forththe  disposition  in the event of his or her death  while  amember	of the Fund of the money which shall be standing  tothe applicant's credit in the Fund.  Should a member at	 anytime  desire to cancel his or her form of declaration be  orshe  may  do so by submitting to the Company  a	 revised  orsubstituted form in writing duly signed and witnessed in thesame manner as in the case of the original form which shouldspecifically   cancel  and  annul  all	previous  forms	  ofdeclaration deposited by the member with the Fund.5.In the event of the declaration as made under rule   4having become obsolete full discretion shall rest with	 theTrustees as to the disposition of any sums   standing to thecredit	of a member on his or her decease and no  person  orpersons	 shall	be recognised as having any  claims  theretosave and except such as shall be ascertained by the Trusteesor their delegate duly appointed to make enquiry in that be-half  upon  satisfactory evidence adduced as  to  which	 theTrustees or their delegate appointed to conduct the  enquiryshall  be sole judge to be the next-of-kin of  the  deceasedmember	and payment by the Trustees the moneys	representinghis or her share in the fund116to the persons or person so ascertained shall operate as  anabsolute discharge to the Trustees from all liability  therefor to all persons whomsoever.6.   Each  member shall be allowed to contribute a  definiteproportion not exceeding one-twelfth of his or her  earningsduring any one year which shall be deducted from his or	 herearnings in monthly or weekly instalments.  Contributions asabove  shall be credited to an account to be opened  in	 thename  of  each	member	to be denominated  his	or  her	 'A'Account.    For the purpose of this fund, earnings shall be deemed tomean  solely the monthly or weekly sum paid to the  Employeefor  wages  excluding  from the purview	 of  such  term	 allaccretions  thereto  and perquisites in the  way  of  actingallowance   commissions	 bonus	payments  overtime   messinghousing allowance lodging money travelling expenses and	 allsuch similar   payments.7.(a) On or as at the thirty first December in each    yeara sum equal to the amount contributed by each	  member  tohis or her 'A' account during that year shall be credited bythe  company to another account to be opened in the name  ofeach  member and to be denominated his or her  'B'  Account.The Company reserves to itself liberty to make such  furthercontributions  as may be requisite for the purposes of	Rule14 below.  (b)	  If  the  net dividend paid by the Company  on	 itsordinary  share	 capital in respect of	any  financial	yearshall  be  at a rate of not less than seven and a  half	 percent on such ordinary share capital a further sum calculatedas hereinafter set out shall be paid by the Company.  Unlessthe Company shall decide that such further sum shall be paidinto  a separate Fund or otherwise than into this Fund	suchfurther sum shall be paid into this Fund to another  accountto be opened in the name of each person who shall have	beena  member  on the thirty-first day of December in  the	saidfinancial year and to be denominated his or her 'C' account.The amount of such further sum117shall depend upon the rate of such net dividend and shall beascertained according to the following scale:-Rate of net dividend paid      Amount of the further sumas aforesaid.			   sum payable.Not less than 7-1/2% and not	   One week's wages.exceeding 8-3/4%Exceeding 8-3/4 but not ex-	Two week's wages.ceeding 11-1/4%Exceeding 11-1/4 but not	 Three weeek's wages.exceeding 13 3/4%Exceeding 13 3/4% but not	 Four week's wages.exceeding 16-1/4%Exceeding 16-1/4% but not	 Five week's wages.exceeding 181%Exceeding 18-3/4% but not	Six week's wages.exceeding 211%For each additional 2-1/2%     An additional week's				  wages.For the purpose of this clause one week's wages 'shall	meanin the case of a worker in receipt of daily wages six  timeshis daily rate of pay at the thirty first day of December insuch financial year as aforesaid and in the case of a workerin  receipt of monthly pay one fifty-second part  of  twelvetimes  his  monthly rate of pay at the thirty-first  day  ofDecember in such financial year".   "Provided  always  that  if at  any	time  the  Company'sOrdinary share capital shall be increased by  capitalisationof  any of its undistributed profits (not including  profitsarising	 from  a  revaluation of assets, from  the  sale  ofassets or from the sale of shares at a premium) or  reduced,then the rate of net dividend paid by the Company in respectof  any	 financial year after the coming into force  of	 anysuch  increase or reduction shall for the purposes  of	thisclause be deemed to be the rate of net dividend actually  sopaid  by the company altered in the ratio which the  nominalvalue  of the Company's paid up capital at the end  of	suchfinancial year (excluding therefrom all118portions of such capital which represent capitalised profitsderived	 from revaluation of assets sale of assets or  issueof  shares  at a premium) shall bear to the value  which  itwould have had if such increase or increases or reduction orreductions  of capital as shall come into effect  after	 thefirst  day of January one thousand nine hundred	 and  thirtyeight had never taken place".  "The payment into each member's 'C' Account in  accordancewith  the  above  provisions  shall  be	 made  as  soon	  asconveniently may be after the holding of the annual OrdinaryGeneral Meeting of the Company at which such net dividend asaforesaid is finally declared and ascertained".8.   The  moneys  of  the  Fund shall  be  invested  by	 theTrustees in accordance with the provisions from time to timein  force  under  the  Indian  Income-tax  (Provident  FundsRelief) Act, 1929.9.   (1) (a) On or as soon as may be after the thirty  firstday  of December in each year the Trustees  shall  determinethe amount standing to the credit of each member in  his'A',B and C accounts on that date and for that purpose a generalaccount shall be taken of the assets of the fund and of	 thereceipts  payments dealings and transactions  in  connectiontherewith  during  the	calendar year  terminating  on	suchthirty first day of December (hereinafter referred to as theperiod of account).  (b)	  Each	such  general account shall  comprise  threerevenue Accounts to be known as the 'A' Revenue Account, the'B'   Revenue	Account	  and  the   "C"   Revenue   Accountrespectively.	The  "A" Revenue Account shall	be  creditedwith  all  income  accrued or profits  realised	 during	 theperiod of account in respect of the investments representingmoneys	lying  to  the credit of the "A"  accounts  and	 theappreciation (if any) of such investments during the  periodof  account.  The "A" Revenue Account shall be debited	withall losses (if say) in respect of119depreciation  of such investments and all sums	paid  duringthe   period   of  account  in	respect	  of   interest	  oncontributions to retiring members or the representatives  ofdeceased members as herein before provided.  The 'B' RevenueAccount	 shall be credited with all forfeits and all  incomeaccrued	 or profit realised during the period of account  inrespect of the investments representing moneys lying to	 thecredit of the 'B' Accounts and the appreciation (if any)  ofsuch  investments  during the period of	 account.   The	 'B'Revenue account shall be debited with all losses (if any) inrespect of depreciation of such investments and all expensesof the Fund.  The "C" Revenue Account shall be credited withall  income accrued or profit realised during the period  ofaccount	 in respect of the investments	representing  moneyslying to the credit of the 'C' Accounts of the members,	 theappreciation  (if any) of such investments during  the	saidperiod	and  all  interest received  by	 the  Trustees	or.,withdrawals  made  under Rule 18 hereof.   The	"C"  RevenueAccount shall be debited with all losses (if any) in respectof depreciation of such investment as last aforesaid.  (c)	  The  balance	of  the "A",  "B"  and	"C'  RevenueAccounts respectively shall be appropriated to the "A",	 "B"and  "C" accounts of the members in each case in  proportionto  the amounts standing to the credit of  their  respective"A",  "B"  and "C' accounts at the close of  the  period  ofaccounts  provided  always  that for  the  purpose  of	suchappropriation  the Trustees may if they think fit  disregardany sum standing to the credit of any member in his "A"	 "B"or  the "C" Revenue Account not exceeding on( rupee and	 maycarry forward to the next period of account any part of	 thebalance of the "A" revenue account, the "B" revenue  accountor  the "C" Revenue account which will not suffice to pay  acomplete  one half percent on the total amount	standing  tothe "B" or "C" accounts as the casecredit of the "A", may beof all the members.  Provided also that in ascertaining	 theamount at credit of a member's "C'120account	 for  the  purpose of  calculating  the	 proportionsherein	mentioned  there  shall be deducted  from  such	 "C"Account	 only those sums withdrawn under the  provisions  ofRule  18 hereof on which interest is not payable by  him  tothe Fund.  (d)For  the purpose of such Revenue Account  the  Trusteesshall value the investments and securities of the Fund,	 andif the same shall in their opinion, which shall be final andconclusive,  have appreciated or depreciated since the	dateof  purchase, or if a general account shall have been  takensubsequent  to the date of purchase then since the  date  ofthe last preceding general account the amount of such appre-ciation or depreciation shall be credited or debited to suchrevenue account as though the same were a realised profit orloss as the case may be. (2)Notwithstanding  the  terms of Rule	 9(1)  the  Trusteesshall  have  the  right should they  in	 their	uncontrolleddiscretion deem it necessary in the interests of the membersas  a whole to take out a general account of the  assets  ofthe  fund  as  at  any date in any year	 other	than  or  inaddition  to  the thirty first day of December	and  Members"A", "B" and "C" accounts shall be adjusted accordingly. (3)In	the  case of the taking of a general  account  underrule 9(2) the words "the period of account" used  throughoutthese rules shall mean and refer to (where the context shalladmit) the period whereof such general account of the assetsof the fund was taken under rule 9(2).10.On  retirement  of  any member with the  consent  of	 theGeneral	 Manager  of the Company before completion  of	morethan fifteen years service with the company he or she  shallbe  paid  the entirety of the amount then  standing  to	 thecredit of his or her "A" and "C" account together with	one-fifteenth of the moneys standing to the credit of his or her"B" account for such completed years service.11.  If any member before completion of fifteen121years  service	with  the company  shall  be  dismissed	 formisconduct or shall resign therefrom without the consent  ofthe General Manager he or she shall be paid only the  amountthen  standing to his or her credit in "A" account  and	 'C"Account.12.  The  residue of any moneys standing to the credit of  amember's "B" account after payment of the moneys payable  tohim or her there out under Rule 10 and the entirety  thereofif   he	 or  she  shall	 be  dismissed	or  resign  in	 thecircumstances as mentioned in rule 11 shall be forfeited  tothe Fund and carried to the "B" Revenue Account to be  dealtwith under Rule 9 (1)13.  Upon termination by any means of a member's service  ifmore  than  fifteen  years  thereof  shall  then  have	beencompleted he or she shall be paid the entirety of the amountthen  standing	to  the credit of his or  her  "B"  and	 "C"account. For  the  computation	of  length  of	service	 under	 theforegoing rules continuous service only shall be reckoned asfrom the date or last date on which the employee entered  orre-entered service.14.  If	 in  consequence of depreciation of  securities	 theamount as received by a member or his or her representativesin  respect  of	 his  or her  "A"  account  under  the	lastpreceding  rules  shall	 fall  short of	 the  total  of	 thecontributions  as  made	 thereto the  company  may  make  anadditional  and contingent contribution to the fund  to	 theamount of the deficiency for payment thereof to the member.15.  If it shall be proved to the satisfaction of any of thetrustees  that	any member has become  insane  or  otherwiseincapacitated  from  exercising	 proper	 control  over	 hisaffairs they make payment out of the moneys standing to	 hisor her credit in the Fund and at such time or times to	suchperson or persons on his or her account as they may in theirabsolute  discretion think expedient.  The above  provisionsfor16122payment	 shall not apply to moneys forfeited under  Rule  17which shall be dealt with by the Trustees at their  absolutediscretion thereunder.16.  On	 the death of any member while still in the  serviceof the Company the sum standing to his or her credit in "A","B" and 'C" accounts shall be paid to the person or  personsnamed in the declaration form signed under Rule 4 or failingsuch  declaration  to  the person or persons  who  shall  beascertained  to be next-of-kin under the provisions of	Rule5.17.  No	 member	 of  the Fund shall have any  claim  on	 themoneys standing to his or her credit therein otherwise	thanin  accordance	with the provisions of these  rules  and  noperson	or persons other than a member save and except	suchas   shall  be	nominated  in  the  declaration	 under	 theprovisions  of	Rule  4 or shall be ascertained	 to  be	 themember's  next-of-kin  under  Rule 5 shall  have  any  claimthereto in any right whatsoever.  Any assignment by a memberof the moneys which would otherwise be payable to him or herunder these rules whether absolute or by way of charge shallbe wholly void and in the event of any member executing	 anysuch  assignment  or being adjudicated insolvent or  if	 anyorder  shall be served upon the Trustees of the Company	 forpayment	 of the moneys standing to his or her credit to	 anyperson	under any attachment or -other process of any  Courtthe  said  moneys  shall at the time when  they	 would	haveotherwise  become  payable  to	the  member  but  for	suchassignment   insolvency	 or  attachment	 be  liable  to	  beforfeited  to  the FUND PROVIDED ALWAYS	 that  the  Trusteesshall  at  their absolute discretion and without  any  legalobligation  so to do pay and apply the same for the  benefitof the member or his or	 her dependents and relatives.18.  Withdrawals by members of the money standing to   theircredit	with the Fund shall not be allowed by  the  Trusteesexcept	that  withdrawals from the amount  standing  to	 thecredit of a member's 'C'123account may be allowed on the special grounds to -the extentand  subject  to  the conditions laid  down  by	 the  IndianIncome-Tax Act and the Rules made thereunder in that  behalfas in force from time to time.19.  There shall be not less than three Trustees of the saidFund.20.  If and whenever any Trustees shall die resign or becomeincapable of acting or shall permanently leave India one  ormore persons in his place shall be appointed by the  Companyas such Trustees.21.  No copy shall be furnished to any member of his or	 heraccount but member may have inspection thereof in the  Booksof the Fund at all reasonable times.22.  These  Rules  may	from time to  time  be	altered	 andamended	 and  other Rules and Regulations may  be  added  orsubstituted  for the management and working of the  Fund  inevery  case  by the Company and the Trustees  and  with	 outreference to the parties hereto of the third part,  providedalways	that should such addition or alteration curtail	 therights	or  increase the obligations of the members  of	 theFund  any member shall be entitled to withdraw from  and  athis or her own request in writing to the Fund, cease to be amember of the Fund in which case he or she shall be paid themoney  standing to his or her credit in the  Fund  (providedthat the same shall not have become forfeited under Rule 17)or  such  portion  thereof  as he or  she  would  have	beenentitled  to if he or she had then retired from the  serviceof  the Company with the consent of the General	 Manager  ofthe Company.Any  such  alteration  or amendment shall,  be	notified  inwriting to the parties responsible for according recognitionto  the Fund under the provisions of the  Indian  Income-Tax(Provident Fund Relief) Act, 1929.12423.  The Company may at any time in its discretion  dissolveor  terminate the Fund and shall in such case carry out	 thewinding	 up  of the Fund and the members of the	 Fund  shallreceive	 all  the moneys standing to their  credit  providedthey  shall  not then have  become forfeited under  Rule  17'A', 'B' and C'.24.  Any  payment made in accordance with the Rules  of	 theFund  to  the  member,	his  nominee  or  next	of  kin	  asascertained  or	 to  any person or persons  other  than	 theforegoing shall operate as a full and efficient discharge ofall liability of the Fund in respect thereof25  These Rules and Regulations shall come into	 force	witheffect from the 1st day of January, 1929.125