PETITIONER:STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:BASTI SUGAR MILLS CO., LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:11/11/1960BENCH:MUDHOLKAR, J.R.BENCH:MUDHOLKAR, J.R.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  420		  1961 SCR  (2) 330 CITATOR INFO : D	    1975 SC1735	 (2,3) E&R	    1979 SC 262	 (28,30)ACT:Industrial  Dispute--Bonus-Statute empowering Government  todirect	 Payment   of	bonus	by    notification--Validityof--Whether   retrospective--United   Provinces	  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947,  (U.  P. 28  of  1947),  s.  3(b)	 and(d)--Constitution of India, Art. 19(1)(f).HEADNOTE:The  Government of U. P. appointed a Court of enquiry  underss.  6	and 10 of the United Provinces	Industrial  DisputesAct,  1947,  and referred to it the  present  dispute.	 TheCourt  of  enquiry submitted its report to  the	 Government,whereupon  the	Government issued a  notification  in  July,1950, directing the various sugar factories to pay bonus  totheir  workmen	for  the years 1948-49 as  well	 as  to	 paycertain amounts as bonus for the years 1947-48.331Court against the Government, prohibiting it from  enforcingthe  notification.  The State Government came up in  appeal,urging, that the provisions of cl. (b) of S. 3 of the UnitedProvinces Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, were wide enough topermit it to issue such a direction to the employer  becauseby  doing  so  the  State Government  would  be	 imposing  acondition of employment in    future.The  respondents, inter alia, contended that (1) clause	 (b)of s.	  3  of the Act does not operate  retrospectively  ;(2)  bonus could only be a term of employment  by  agreementand could not be imposed by statute ; (3) where there was anindustrial  dispute cl. (d) and not cl. (b) of s. 3  of	 theAct  would  apply and (4) if cl. (b) was applicable  it	 wasultra vires being discriminatory and violative of Art. 14 ofthe  Constitution  and also violative of Art. 19(i)  of	 theConstitution  as  it confers arbitrary powers on  the  StateGovernment.Held,  that  (i)  though  cl. (b) of  s.  3  of	 the  UnitedProvinces Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, could not be  givena retrospective effect, yet there was nothing therein  whichprohibited the State Government from giving a direction withregard	to  the	 payment  of bonus  and	 by  giving  such  adirection the State Government was not giving  retrospectiveeffect to the provisions of that clause nor did it add a newterm  or a condition for a period which was over, it  merelyrequired  the employer to pay an additional sum of money  totheir  employees  as a term and condition of  employment  infuture;(ii) though  normally wage is a term of contract it  can  bemade  a condition of employment by statute, and it was	opento  the State Government under cl. (b) of s. 3 to  make	 thepayment of bonus to workmen a condition of their  employmentin future;(iii)	  where the employees bargained in their  collectivecapacity,  the fact that the personnel of the  factory	whenthe  order  for	 the  payment  of  bonus  was  made  by	 theGovernment and in the year to which dispute related were notthe same, did not affect the power of the Government as	 theorder  would  apply only to those employees who	 had  workedduring the period in question and not to new employees ;(iv) the  normal way of dealing with an	 industrial  disputewould be to have it dealt with judicially and not by  resortto  executive  action,	but cl. (b) of	s.  3  empowers	 theGovernment to act promptly in case of an emergency and	armsit with additional powers to deal with such an emergency  inthe public interest;(v)  when the Government had made an executive or per  undercl.  (b)  of s. 3 on the ground that it was  in	 the  publicinterest to do so it was open to the aggrieved party to movethe   Government  to  refer  the  industrial   dispute	 forconciliation  or adjudication under cl. (b) of S. 3  of	 theAct.332(vi) the provisions of cl. (b) of s. 3 are not in any  sensealternative  to	 those of cl. (d) and the  former  could  beavailed of by the State Government only in an emergency	 andas  a temporary measure.  The right of the employer  or	 theemployee   to  require	the  dispute  to  be  referred	 forconciliation or adjudication would still be there and  couldbe exercised by them by taking appropriate steps;(vii)	  clause (b) of s. 3 of the Act is not violative  ofthe  provisions of Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution  as  itpermits action to be taken thereunder by the Government onlyin an emergency and in the public interest.  The restrictionplaced upon the employer is only a temporary one and  havingbeen  placed in the public interest falls under cl.  (6)  ofArt. 19 of the Constitution.Ram  Nath  Koeri and Anr. v. Lakshmi Devi  Sugar  Mills	 andOrs., (1956) 11 L.L.J. 11, approved.L.   D.	 Mills	v. U. P. Government, A.I.R. 1954  All.	705,overruled.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 790 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated February 10, 1954,of the Allahabad High Court in Civil Misc.   Writ No. 280 of1950.C.   B.	 Aggarwala,  G.	 C. Mathur and C. P.  Lal,  for	 theappellants.G.   S. Pathak and D. N. Mukherjee, for the respondent No.1.1960.  November 11.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyMUDHOLKAR J.-This is an appeal by the State of Uttar Pradeshagainst the decision of the Full Bench of the Allahabad HighCourt  in  a  writ  petition.	In  the	 writ  petition	 therespondents challenged certain orders made by the Governmentof Uttar Pradesh under s. 3, cl. (b) of the United ProvincesIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1947, (XXVIII of  1947)  requiringthe respondents to pay bonus at certain rates for the  years1947-48	 and  1948-49 to their workers and also	 payment  ofretaining  allowances  to the skilled seasonal	workmen	 andclerical  staff.  The circumstances under which	 the  orderswere made are briefly these:333The   Indian  National	Sugar  Mills  Workers'	 Federation,Lucknow, served notices on various sugar factories in  UttarPradesh	 on  December  15,  1949, in  which  they  made	 sixdemands.  We need, however, mention only one of them as thatalone is in controversy in this appeal.	 That demand relatedto the bonus for the year 1948-49 and to the restoration  ofthe  reduction	which had been made in the  previous  year'sbonus.	By that notice the Federation threatened a strike inthe  industry  with  effect from January 16,  1960,  if	 thedemands	 were  not met by the sugar factories.	 Since	thissituation brought into existence an industrial dispute,	 theGovernment  of	Uttar  Pradesh, in  exercise  of  the  powerconferred  by ss. 6 and 10 of the Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947,  (XIV  of	 1947)	appointed a  Court  of	Inquiry	 andreferred  the dispute to it.  The notification	also  statedthe  points  which were referred to the	 Court	of  Inquiry.That  notification  was twice amended but nothing  turns  onthose  amendments.  A full enquiry was held by the Court  ofInquiry	 at which the representatives of both the  employersas  well as the employees were represented and material	 wasplaced	before the Court of Inquiry by both the sides.	 TheCourt  of Inquiry submitted its report to the Government  onApril 15, 1950.	 On receipt of this report the Government ofUttar  Pradesh	published the report in	 the  Uttar  Pradeshgazette	 on  May 8, 1950, as provided for in s.	 17  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act,  1947.   On	July  5,  1950,	 theGovernment  of	Uttar  Pradesh, in exercise  of	 the  powersconferred  by  s.  3(b)	 of  the  Uttar	 Pradesh  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947, issued a	notification  directing	 thevarious	 sugar factories to pay bonus to their	workmen	 forthe year 1948-49 as well as to pay certain amounts as  bonusfor  the year 1947-48.	A further direction was made in	 thenotification  for  payment  of retaining  allowance  to	 theskilled seasonal workmen and clerical staff with effect fromthe off season in the year 1950.  Thereupon the Indian SugarMillers	 Association,  which  is  an  Association  of  sugarfactories  in India and is registered under the Trade  UnionAct made a petition before the High Court at Allahabad under334Art. 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ againstthe  Government of Uttar Pradesh prohibiting the  Governmentfrom  enforcing	 the notification.  The	 writ  petition	 wasdismissed  by the High Court on September 14, 1950,  on	 theground	that  the Association had no legal interest  in	 thematter.	  Thereupon various sugar mills	 preferred  separatewrit petitions before the High Court, the respondents beforeus  being  one of them.	 As many as  fourteen  grounds	weretaken  on  their  behalf in their writ	petition.   We	are,however,  concerned with only three of them to which Mr.  G.S.  Pathak,  who appears for the  respondents  confined	 hisarguments.   Before  we	 refer to  those  grounds  we  wouldcomplete  the  narration  of  facts.   The  High  Court	  ofAllahabad  allowed  the	 writ petitions, in so	far  as	 thequestion  of payment of bonus was concerned,  though  Sapru,J., one of the judges constituting the Full Bench, expresseda doubt as to the correctness of the view that the order  ofthe  State  Government as regards the payment of  bonus	 wasinvalid.  After the decision of the High Court, the State ofUttar Pradesh applied for a certificate under Art. 133(1)(b)and  Art.  133(1)(c) of the Constitution.   The	 High  Courthaving granted the certificate, the present appeal has	beenbrought to this Court.In  order  to  appreciate the points raised  by	 Mr.  G.  S.Pathak, it is necessary to set out the provisions of s. 3 ofthe  Uttar Pradesh Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.  They	 areas follows:"  If,	in  the	 opinion of  the  State	 Government,  it  isnecessary  or  expedient so to do for  securing	 the  publicsafety or convenience, or the maintenance of public order orsupplies   and	services  essential  to	 the  life  of	 thecommunity, or for maintaining employment, it may, by generalor special order, make provision-(a)  for  prohibiting,	subject	 to the	 provisions  of	 theorder, strikes or look-outs generally, or a strike or  lock-out in connection with any industrial dispute;(b)  for requiring employers, workmen or both to observe forsuch  period, as may be specified in the order,	 such  termsand  conditions	 of  employment	 as  may  be  determined  inaccordance with the order;335(c) for appointing industrial courts;(cc)  for appointing committees representative both  of	 theemployer  and workmen for securing amity and good  relationsbetween the employer and workmen and for settling industrialdisputes  by  conciliation; for consultation and  advice  onmatters	 relating to production, organization,	welfare	 andefficiency;(d)  for  referring any industrial dispute for	conciliationor adjudication in the manner provided in the order ;(e)  for  requiring  any  public  utility  service,  or	 anysubsidiary undertaking not to close or remain closed and  towork  or  continue  to work on such  conditions	 as  may  bespecified in the order;(f)  for exercising control over any public utility service,or  any	 subsidiary undertaking, by authorising	 any  person(hereinafter  referred	to as an authorised  controller)  toexercise, with respect to such service, undertaking or	partthereof such functions of control as may be specified in theorder;	and,  on  the making of	 such  order   the  service,undertaking or part thereof such functions of control as maybe specified in the order; and, on the making of such  orderthe service, undertaking or part, as the case may be,  shallso  long  as  the  order  continues  to	 be  carried  on  inaccordance  with  any  directions given	 by  the  authorisedcontroller  in accordance with the provisions of  the  orderand every person having any functions of management of	suchservice, undertaking or part thereof shall comply with	suchdirections;(g)  for  any  incidental  or  supplementary  matters  whichappear	to the State Government necessary or  expedient	 forthe purposes of the order: Provided that no order made underclause (b)(i)  shall   require  an  employer  to	observe	 terms	 andconditions of employment less favourable to the workmen thanthose which were applicable to them at any time within threemonths preceding the date of the order;(ii) shall,  if	 an  industrial	 dispute  is  referred	 foradjudication  under  clause  (d),  be  enforced	 after	 thedecision  of the adjudicating authority is announced  be  orwith the consent of, the State Government."336The view taken by the High Court was that clause (b)   of s.3 of the Uttar Pradesh Industrial DisputesAct, 1947, is prospective in operation in that thereunder itis  open  to the State Government to ask an employer  or  anemployee  to observe a term or a condition of employment  infuture and that consequently it is not competent  thereunderto require an employer to pay bonus to workmen in respect ofa  period of employment which is already past.	The view  ofthe  High  Court was challenged before us on behalf  of	 theState.	 According  to	the  State  the	 provisions  of	 theaforesaid  clause  are wide enough to permit the  making  ofsuch  a	 direction to the employer because by doing  so	 theState  Government  would  only be imposing  a  condition  ofemployment  in	future.	 In answer to  this  contention	 Mr.Pathak has, as already stated, raised three points and	theyare as follows:(1)  Clause (b) of s. 3 does not operate retrospectively andmust be construed as having a prospective operation only.(2)  This  clause does not apply at all where an  industrialdispute has arisen and that the appropriate provision  underwhich  the  State  Government  can  take  action  where	  anindustrial dispute has arisen is cl. (d).(3)  If cl. (b) is susceptible of the interpretation that itis  applicable	even when an industrial dispute	 has  arisenthen  it  is ultra vires in as much as it would	 enable	 theState Government to discriminate between an industry and  anindustry  or an industrial unit and another industrial	unitor  between a workman and a workman by referring some  casesfor  adjudication to an industrial court under cl.  (d)	 andpassing	 executive order itself in respect of  others.	 Theprovisions  of cl. (b), according to him, are  violative  ofArt.  14  of the Constitution.	Further, according  to	him,they  are also violative of the provisions of Art.  19(1)(g)of  the Constitution in as much as they confer an  arbitrarypower on the State Government to require an employer to	 paywhatever  it  thinks fit to an employee and  thus  place  anunreasonable  restriction on the rights of the	employer  tocarry on his business.337We  entirely agree with the learned judges of the  AllahabadHigh  Court  that  cl.	(b)  of	 s.  3	cannot	be  given  aretrospective effect.  But we are unable to agree with	themthat  the  State  Government in making a  direction  to	 theemployers  to pay bonus for the years in question  purportedto give a retrospective operation to the provisions of	thatclause.	 The order made by the State Government in regard tobonus  is to the effect that it shall be paid for  the	year1947-48 to those persons who worked during that year and forthe  year 1948-49 to those persons who worked in that  year.This payment was directed to be made within six weeks of themaking	of  the order.	By giving this direction  the  StateGovernment  did	 no  more than attach  a  condition  to	 theemployment of workmen in the year 1950-51 in sugar factoriesaffected  by the order.	 That is all that it has done.	 Mr.Pathak contended that bonus has certain attributes of a wageand  wage being a matter of contract can only be a  term  ofemployment  agreed to between the employer and the  employeebut  could not be a condition of employment which  could  beimposed	 by  a	statute	 or which  could  be  imposed  by  aGovernment  acting under a statute.  We agree that  normallywage  is  a term of contract but it would be futile  to	 saythat  it  cannot  be made a condition  of  employment.	 TheMinimum	 Wages Act provides for the fixation of a  statutoryminimum wage payable to a worker in respect of certain typesof  employments	 and  is an instance of wage  being  made  acondition of employment.  That apart, whether wage or  bonusis  a term of a contract or a condition of employment it  isclear that s. 3 empowers the State Government to require theemployers  and	workmen	 or  both to  observe  any  term  orcondition  of employment for a specified period.  Since	 thelaw  enables  the State Government to impose a	term  it  isapparent that the legislature which enacted that law did notimport	into  that word a con. sensual	sense.	 We  cannot,therefore, accept the argument that under cl. (b) it was notopen to the State Government to make the payment of bonus to338workmen	 a condition of their employment in future and	thusaugment their past wages.Mr.  Pathak then referred to the following  observations  inthe  judgment of Bhargava, J. s " Obviously there can be  noquestion of requiring any one to observe for a future periodterms  and  conditions	of  employment	which  have  alreadyremained  effective  and have already been  carried  out  bythose persons ".According  to  Mr.  Pathak the effect of the  order  of	 theGovernment  is to add a new term or a condition with  regardto employment for a period which is already over.  We  wouldagain point out that this is not the effect of the order  ofthe  Government.   The	effect of that order  is  merely  torequire	 the employer to pay an additional sum of  money  tohis  employees	as a term and condition of work	 in  future.Mr. Pathak, however, said that this would involve payment ofbonus  even  to new employees, that is, those  who  had	 notparticipated  in  earning the profits in the past  and	thatthis would be contrary to the very conception of bonus.	 Theanswer	to  that is that under the order of  the  Governmentsuch  bonus is payable only to those workers who had  workedduring	the years in question and not to new employees.	  Itis  further  to	 be borne in mind that	in  the	 dispute  inquestion  the employees were bargaining in their  collectivecapacity and, therefore, the question whether the  personnelforming	 the employees of the factories in July, 1950,	whenthe order was made by the Government, and in the years 1947-48 and 1948-49 to which the dispute relates was the same  isquite immaterial.  As has been rightly pointed out by Sapru,J., " The employees might well have taken in the  industrialdispute the line that the payment of bonus in respect of theyears  1947-48 and 1948-49 to the workmen employed in  thoseyears was regarded by those who were employed in future as apreliminary  and  essential  condition	for  not  only	 thesettlement  of the industrial dispute in progress  but	alsofor  carrying on their future work in sugar factories ".  Wealso concur with the observations of the learned judge	thatby coming			    339conceded the State Government was not passing an order whichwill  have  retrospective effect but was  passing  an  orderwhich was to ensure that the work. men to be employed in theyear 1950 would work in a contented manner.  It must not  beforgotten  that the dispute was in the present, that is,  itexisted when the impugned order was made, though its  originwas  in	 the past.  What the order did was to  resolve	thatdispute and this it could only do by removing its cause.Mr.  Pathak then relied upon the following  observations  ofBhargava, J., in L. D. Sugar Mills v. U. P. Government (1):"  The	expression 1 to observe for such period	 as  may  bespecified, such terms and conditions of employment as may bedetermined'  gives an indication that clause (b) of s. 3  ofthe  U. P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, is meant  for	 thepurpose	 of  passing orders by which  the  Government  givesdirections about what the terms and conditions of employmentshould	be  and not how a particular term and  condition  ofemployment already in existence should be acted upon."Bhargava,  J.'s decision was, however, reversed in Ram	NathKoeri  and Another v. Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills and Ors.	 (2)by  a division bench of the Allahabad High Court in  LettersPatent	Appeal brought against Bhargava, J.'s decision.	  Weagree with the view taken by the Appellate Bench.In our opinion, therefore, there is nothing in cl. (b) of s.3  of  the Act which prohibited the  State  Government	frommaking a direction to the sugar factories with regard to thepayment of bonus for the years 1947-48 and 1948-49 in  theirorder  of July 7, 1950 and that by making such	a  directionthe  State Government was not giving a retrospective  effectto the provisions of that clause.  In this connection it  isrelevant  to  remember that any direction as to	 payment  ofbonus must inevitably be based on the available surplus, andsuch  surplus can be determined only at the end of  a  givenyear.  Therefore, what the impugned(1) A.I.R. 1954 All. 705, 714.(2) (1956) II L. L. J. 11.340order  purports	 to do is to require the  employers  to	 payspecified  amounts in future, though the said  ,amounts	 arefixed by reference to the profits made in the two  precedingyears.	If a direction as to payment ;of bonus can be issuedunder	s.  3(b)  it  cannot,  therefore,  be  said  to	  beretrospective.The next argument of Mr. Pathak appears, at first sight,  tobe  more  formidable.	He points out  that  undoubtedly  anindustrial  dispute had arisen, and indeed it is  upon	thatbasis that the State Government proceeded to appoint a Courtof Inquiry.  Therefore, according to Mr. Pathak resort couldbe  taken  by  the  State Government  only  to	the  specialprovisions of cl. (d) and not to the more general provisionsof  cl.	 (b)  of s. 3. In other words,	where  there  is  anindustrial dispute, the appropriate thing for the Governmentto do is to refer it for conciliation or adjudication  underthe provisions of cl. (d) and not to deal with the matter byan executive order as it has done in this case.	 Mr.  Pathakthen  refers  to  a further passage  from  the	judgment  ofBhargava, J., just cited which is as follows:"  It appears from the language that this provision was	 notmeant  for the purpose of dealing with	individual  disputesarising	 out  of the application of a term or  condition  ofemployment and no power was granted to the State  Governmentunder  this  provision of law, to sit as an  adjudicator  todecide	a  dispute that might have arisen  relating  to	 theworking	 and actual application of terms and  conditions  ofemployment  already  in force.	The provision  was  for	 thepurpose	 of  enabling  the  State  Government  to  vary	 theagreed	terms  and  conditions of  employment  for  purposesspecified  in a. 3 of U. P. Industrial Disputes	 Act,  1947,under the pressing necessities or expediency justifying suchcourse of action."We  entirely  agree with Mr. Pathak that the normal  way  ofdealing with an industrial dispute under the Act would be tohave  it dealt with judicially either by conciliation or  byadjudication   and   that   judicial   process	 cannot	  becircumvented by resort to executive action.  The  proceedingbefore a conciliator or an341adjudicator  is, in a sense, a judicial	 proceeding  becausetherein	 both  the  parties to the dispute  would  have	 theopportunity  of	 being	heard and of  placing  the  relevantmaterial  before the conciliator or adjudicator.  But  theremay  be	 an  emergency and the Government may  have  to	 actpromptly " for securing the public safety or convenience  orthe.  maintenance of public order or supplies  and  servicesessential  to  the  life of  the  community  or	 maintainingemployment."  It  was, therefore, necessary to arm  it	withadditional  powers  for	 dealing  with	such  an  emergency.Clause (b) of s. 3 was apparently enacted for this  purpose.An order made thereunder would be in the nature of a tempor-ary or interim order as would be clear from the words "	 forsuch period as may be specified " appearing therein and fromthe  second  proviso to s. 3. Under this  proviso  where  anindustrial  dispute is referred for adjudication  under	 cl.(d) an order made under cl. (b) cannot be enforced after thedecision  of the adjudicating authority is announced  by  orwith  the  consent  of	the  State  Government.	  It  would,therefore,  follow from this that where the  Government	 hasmade  an executive order, as it did in this case, under	 cl.(b)  of s. 3, it is open to the aggrieved party to move	 theGovernment to refer the industrial dispute for	conciliationor adjudication under cl. (d) of s. 3. Mr. Pathak,  however,stated	that  under  this  section,  the  Government  has  adiscretion   whether   or  not	to  refer  a   dispute	 forconciliation  or  adjudication under cl. (d).	But  in	 ouropinion where once the Government has acted under cl. (b) onthe  ground that it was in the public interest to do so,  itwould  not be open to the Government to refuse to refer	 thedispute under cl. (d) for conciliation or adjudication.	 Mr.C.  B. Agarwal, who appeared for the State of Uttar  Pradeshconceded,  and we think rightly, that this would be  so	 andadded that in case the State Government was recalcitrant  itcould  be  forced to do its duty by the issue of a  writ  ofmandamus   by  the  High  Court	 under	Art.  226   of	 theConstitution.There  is  a further argument of Mr. Pathak  which  must  benoticed and that argument is that there is342nothing	 in  cl.  (b)  which  limits  its  operation  to  anemergency  and	that  it is, therefore, not open  to  us  toplace  a  construction thereon of the kind we  are  placing.The  opening  words of s. 3 themselves	indicate   that	 theprovisions thereof are to be availed of in an emergency.  Itis  true  that	even  a reference  to  an  arbitrator  or  aconciliator  could  be made only if there is  an  emergency.But  then an emergency may be acute.  Such an emergency	 maynecessitate the exercise of powers under cl. (b) and a	mereresort to those under cl. (d) may be inadequate to meet thissituation.  Whether to resort to one provision or other mustdepend	upon  the  subjective  satisfaction  of	 the   StateGovernment  upon  which powers to act under s. 3  have	beenconferred  by  the legislature.	 No doubt,  this  result  isarrived	 at  by	 placing a particular  construction  on	 theprovisions of that section but we think we are justified  indoing so.  As Mr. Pathak himself suggested in the course  ofhis arguments, we must try and construe a statute in such  away, where it is possible to so construe it, as to obviate aconflict  between its various provisions and also so  as  torender the statute or any of its provisions  constitutional.By limiting the operation of the provisions of cl. (b) to anemergency we do not think that we are doing violence to	 thelanguage  used by the legislature.  Further,  assuming	thatthe   width  of	 the  language	could  not  be	limited	  byconstruction it can be said that after the coming into forceof  the Constitution the provisions can, by virtue  of	Art.13,  have only a limited effect as stated above and  to	 theextent	that  they are inconsistent with  the  Constitution,they have been rendered void.In  our view, therefore, the provisions of cl. (b) of  s.  3are  not  in any sense alternative to those of cl.  (d)	 andthat the former could be availed of by the State  Governmentonly in an emergency and as a temporary measure.  The  rightof the employer or the employee to require the dispute to bereferred  for  conciliation or adjudication would  still  bethere  and could be exercised by them by taking	 appropriatesteps.	Upon the construction we place on the343provisions  of cl. (b) of s. 3 it is clear that no  questionof  discrimination at all arises.  Similarly the  fact	thataction	was taken by the Government in an emergency  in	 thepublic	interest would be a complete answer to the  argumentthat  that action is violative of the pro- visions  of	Art.19(1)(g).  The restriction placed upon the employer by	suchan  order is only a temporary one and having been placed  inthe public interest would fall under cl. (6) of Art. 19	 of,the Constitution.Upon  this view we hold that the High Court was in error  inissuing	 a writ against the State Government quashing  theirorder  in  so far as it related to payment  of	bonus.	 Theappeal is allowed and order of the High Court is set  aside.Costs of this appeal will be paid by the respondents.Appeal allowed.