PETITIONER:M/s.  U. P. ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO., LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE WORKMEN OF M/s.  S. N. CHOUDHARY,CONTRACTORS AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/03/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1960 AIR  818		  1960 SCR  (3) 189ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Tyibunal deciding issue not referred  toit--jurisdiction-U.P.  Industrial Dispute Act, 1947  (XXVIIIOf 1947), ss. 34 (Proviso) 5, 8.HEADNOTE:The  appellant company used to employ Messrs.  S.  M.  Chou-dhary  as its contractors for doing certain work for it	 andthe contractors in their turn used to employ some workmen tocarry  out the work which they took on contract.  A  disputehaving	arisen between the contractors and their workmen  anapplication  was made before the conciliation board  by	 theworkmen	 in which both the company and the contractors	wereparties and four matters were referred, namely, non-grant ofbonus  for two years, non-grant of festival  holidays,	non-fixation  of minimum wages of those workmen at par with	 theworkmen	 of  the company and non-abolition of  the  contractsystem.	 As conciliation failed the Government referred	 thedispute to the Industrial Tribunal under the U.P. IndustrialDisputes  Act  in which only three points out  of  the	fourmentioned  above  were	referred and the  question  of	non-abolition  of  the contract system was	not  referred.	 Theparties	 to  this reference were the contractors  and  theirworkmen	 and  not the appellant company.   By  a  subsequentnotification, however, the Government impleaded the  Companyas  a  party to the dispute but did not amend  the  previousreferring order by190adding	the  fourth point of dispute which  was	 before	 theconciliation   board,  namely,	the  non-abolition  of	 thecontract system.  The Industrial Tribunal framed a number ofissues	the most important of which was whether the  workmenconcerned were the employees of the appellant company or  ofthe  contractors  and  came to	the  conclusion	 that  thoseworkmen	 were  in fact and in reality the employees  of	 thecompany.  On appeal by the company by special leave,Held,	that  on  such	a  reference  there  could   be	  nojurisdiction in the tribunal to decide the question  whetherthese  workmen	were the workmen of the company	 or  of	 thecontractors,  for  such a question was not referred  to	 thetribunal.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 481 of 1958.Appeal by special leave from the Award dated June 29,  1957,of  the State Industrial, Tribunal U.P. Allahabad,  in	Ref.No. 98 of 1956.M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, S. N.  Andley,J.  B. Dadachanji, Rameshuar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for	the,appellants.A.   D. Mathur, for respondent No. 1.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lat, for respondent No. 2.G.   N. Dikshit and C. P. Lal, for the intervener.1960.  March, 8. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.-This is an appeal by special leave against	 theorder of the Industrial Tribunal, Allahabad.  The  appellantis the U. P. Electric Supply Co. Ltd., Lucknow, (hereinaftercalled	the company).  It appears that the company  used  toemploy	Messrs. s M.  Choudhary (hereinafter referred to  asthe  contractors) as its contractors for doing certain	workfor  it.  The  contractors in their turn used  to  employ  anumber of persons to carry out the work which they had takenon  contract.  A dispute arose between the  contractors	 andtheir workmen in 1956 and an application was made on June 6,1956, by the workmen before the conciliation board.  To thisapplication both the company as well as the contractors wereparties and four matters were referred by the workmen to theconciliation  board, namely, (i) non-grant of bonus for	 theyears  1953-54	and  1954-55;  (ii)  nongrant  of   festivalholidays;  (iii)  non-fixation	of minimum  wages  of  theseworkmen at par with the191workmen	 employed by the company; and (iv)  nonabolition  ofthe  contract  system.	Efforts at conciliation	 failed	 andthereupon  the Government of Uttar Pradesh made a  referenceto  the	 Industrial  Tribunal under  the  U.  P.  IndustrialDisputes  Act, No. XXVIII of 1947, (hereinafter	 called	 theAct).  In this reference only three points were referred outof  the	 four  which were  before  the	conciliation  board,namely,	 those	relating  to bonus,  festival  holidays	 andpayment of wages to these workmen at par with the workmen ofthe  company.  The fourth point which was raised before	 theconciliation  board (namely, non-abolition of  the  contractsystem)	 was  not referred.  The parties to  this  referencewere two, namely-(i) the contractors and (ii) their workmen.The appellant was not a party to this reference.  On  August13,  1956,  another  notification was issued by	 the  U.  P.Government  under  ss. 3, 5 and 8 of the Act  by  which	 thecompany was impleaded as a party to the dispute referred  bythe  notification  of  July 31,	 1956.	 It  is	 remarkable,however, that the matters of dispute which were specified inthe reference dated July 31, 1956, were not amended as	theycould  have  been under the proviso to s. 4 of the  Act,  byadding the fourth point 'of dispute before the	conciliationboard,	namely,	 the non-abolition of the  contract  system.When  the  matter  came up before the  industrial  court  itframed a number of issues; and the first and most  importantissue ran thus: "Are the workmen concerned employees of	 theU. P. Electric Supply Co. Ltd., Lucknow or of Messrs.  S. M.Chaudhary, contractors ? "The  main objection of the company was that the dispute,  ifany was between the contractors and their employees and thatthere  was no dispute between the company and  its  workmen.It  was	 further objected that there was no valid  or  legalorder  of the Government referring any dispute	between	 thecompany	 and its workmen to the tribunal and  therefore	 thetribunal  had no jurisdiction.	On the merits it  was  urgedthat  the  workmen  concerned were not the  workmen  of	 thecompany	 and  there  was no  relationship  of  employer	 andemployee between the company and these workmen and thereforethe company could not be regarded192as a party to the dispute between the contractors andtheir workmen.It  is	therefore  clear that the main	question  which	 wasconsidered by the tribunal was whether the workmen concernedwere  the workmen of the company or of the contractors.	  Asthe  tribunal itself says, " the crux of the whole case	 waswhether	 the  workmen concerned were the  employees  of	 thecompany	 ".  The  tribunal went into the  evidence  in	thisconnection  and	 came to the conclusion that  these  workmenwere in fact and in reality the employees of the company.The  main contention on behalf of the company before  us  isthat even assuming that the Government had power under s.  5read   with  cl.  12  of  G.  O.  No.	U-464	(LL)XXXVI-B-257(LL)/1954, dated July 14, 1954, to implied the company asa  party,  the main issue decided by the  tribunal  was	 notreferred to it and the tribunal could only decide the  threematters	 of  dispute included in the order of  reference  ofJuly  31, 1956.	 Therefore, in so far as the  tribunal	wentbeyond	the,  three  matters of	 dispute  specified  in	 thereference  and	decided	 the question  whether	the  workmenconcerned  were	 in  the employ of the	company	 or  of	 thecontractors  it	 was  acting without  jurisdiction  as	thismatter was never referred to it.We are of opinion that this contention must prevail.  As  wehave already pointed out, there were four matters before theconciliation  board including the question of  non-abolitionof  the	 contract system.  Further before  the	conciliationboard  not only the contractors but the company was  also  aparty,	for obviously the question of non-abolition  of	 thecontract  system  would	 necessitate  the  presence  of	 thecompany	 as  a party to the proceedings.  When	however	 theGovernment referred the dispute to the tribunal on July	 31,it  did	 not include the fourth item which  was	 before	 theconciliation  board  relating to the  non-abolition  of	 thecontract  system among the matters in dispute.	It also	 didnot  include  the  company  as one of  the  parties  to	 thedispute, for the reference-order refers only to two  partiesto  the dispute, namely, the contractors and their  workmen.On such a reference there could be no jurisdiction in193the  tribunal to decide the question whether  these  workmenwere  the workmen of the company or of the contractors,	 forsuch  a	 question was not referred to the tribunal.   It  istrue that on August 13, 1956, the company was impleaded as aparty to the dispute referred by the notification of July 31;  but	the matters in dispute remained	 unmended,  and	 thequestion  of  non-abolition of the contract  system  or	 thequestion  whether  these workmen were the employees  of	 thecompany	 in  fact  and in reality was not  included  in	 thematters of dispute by amendment under the proviso to s. 4 ofthe  Act.   In	these  circumstances  it  is  immaterial  toconsider whether the impleading of the company as a party onAugust 13, 1956, was legal and valid or not.  Assuming	thatit  was legal and valid, the fact remains that issue  No.  1set  out  above by us which is undoubtedly the crux  of	 thequestion  in this case was not referred to the	tribunal  atall  and did not arise out of the three matters	 of  disputespecified in the reference order of July 31, 1956.  In thesecircumstances  the  order of the tribunal by which  it	heldthat  these  workmen  were the workmen of  the	company	 wasbeyond	its jurisdiction.  The entire order of the  tribunalis  directed against the company and must therefore  be	 setaside  in  whole  as without jurisdiction and  we  need	 notexpress	 any opinion on the merits.  We therefore allow	 theappeal	and set aside the order of the tribunal against	 theappellant.   In	 the circumstances we pass no  order  as  tocosts.Appeal allowed.25194