PETITIONER:THE MANAGEMENT OF CHANDRAMALAIESTATE, ERNAKULAM	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMEN AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:04/04/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  902		  1960 SCR  (3) 451 CITATOR INFO :	    1963 SC 601	 (6) RF	    1969 SC 998	 (23) RF	    1970 SC 867	 (43) RF	    1973 SC1156	 (11) RF	    1981 SC 340	 (14)ACT:Industrial  Dispute--Failure of conciliation--Union to	takeProper and reasonable course before calling a strike.HEADNOTE:The  management	 having refused to comply with some  of	 thedemands	 raised	 by  workmen, the matter  was  referred	 forconciliation.	Efforts at conciliation failed	on  November30,  1955.  on	the very next day the union  gave  a  strikenotice and actually went on strike with effect from December9,  1958.  On January 3, 1956, the Government  referred	 thedispute to the Industrial Tribunal and the strike was calledoff  on	 January 5, 1956.  The question as  to	whether	 theworkmen	 were entitled to get wages for the period  of	the'strike	was  along with some other grounds referred  to	 theTribunal.  The Tribunal took the view that both the  partieswere  to  blame	 for the strike and that  the  workmen	wereentitled  to  get 50% of the emoluments for  the  period  ofstrike:Held,  that  on	 the  facts  of	 the  case  the	 strike	 wasunjustified  and that the workmen were not entitled  to	 anywages for the period.When conciliation attempts failed it was reasonable for	 theunion  to take the normal and reasonable course provided  bylaw to settle the dispute by asking . the Government to makea reference to the Industrial Tribunal before it decided  tostrike.	 A strike which is a legitimate weapon in the  handsof the workmen would not be ordinarily justified if  hastilyresorted  to  without  exhausting  reasonable  avenues	 forpeaceful achievement of the object.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 347/1959.Appeal	by  special  leave  from  the  Award  dated  October17,1957,  of the Industrial Tribunal No. 11,  Ernakulam,  inIndustrial Dispute No. 63 of 1956.S. Govind Swaminadhan and P. Ram Reddy, for the appellant.Jacob  A.  Chakramakal and K. Sundararajan,  for  respondentNo.1K. R. Choudhry, for respondent No. 2.1960.  April 4. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by452DAS GUPTA, J.-On August 9, 1955, the Union of the workmen ofthe  Chandramalai  Estate submitted to the  Manager  of	 theEstate a memorandum containing fifteen demands.	 Though	 themanagement  agreed  to	fulfil	some  of  the  demands	 theprincipal demands remained unsatisfied.	 On August 29, 1955,the  Labour Officer, Trichur, who had in the  meantime	beenapprised  of  the  position by both the	 management  of	 theEstate	 as  well  as  the  Labour  Union   advised   mutualnegotiations  between the representatives of the  managementand  workers.  Ultimately the matter was recommended by	 theLabour	Officer	 to the Conciliation Officer,  Trichur,	 forconciliation.  The Conciliation Officer's efforts proved  invain.	The  last meeting for Conciliation appears  to	havebeen  held on November 30, 1955.  On the following  day	 theUnion gave a strike notice and the workmen went on a  strikewith  effect  from December 9, 1955.  The  strike  ended  onJanuary	 5,  1956.   Prior  to	this,  on  January  5,	 theGovernment  had referred the dispute as regards five of	 thedemands	  for  adjudication  to	 the  Industrial   Tribunal,Trivandrum.  Thereafter by an order dated June 11, 1956, thedispute	 was  withdrawn	 from the  Trivandrum  Tribunal	 andreferred  to  the Industrial Tribunal,	Ernakulam.   By	 itsaward  dated  October  17, 1957, the  Tribunal	granted	 theworkmen's  demands on all these issues.	 The present  appealhas  been  preferred by the management of  the	ChandramalaiEstate	against	 the  Tribunal's award	on  three  of  theseissues.	  These	 three issues are stated  in  the  referencethus:"  1. Was the price realised by the management for the	ricesold  to the workers after decontrol excessive; and  if	 so,are  the  workers entitled to get refund  of  the  excessivevalue so collected?2.   Are  the workers entitled to get cumbly allowance	withretrospective  effect from the date it was stopped and	whatshould	be  the rate of such allowance? 3. Are	the  workersentitled to get wages for the period of the strike ?On  the	 first issue the workmen's case was that  after	 thecontrol	 on  rice  was	lifted	by  the	 Travancore   CochinGovernment in April, 1954, the management453which continued to sell rice to the workmen, charged at	 theexcessive  rate of 12 annas per measure for rice  bought  inexcess	of  a  quota  for  1-1/2  measure  per	head.	Thisaccording  to the workmen was improper and  unjustified	 andthey claimed refund of the excess which they have been	madeto pay.	 The management's case was that the workmen were notbound to buy rice from the Estate's management and secondly,that only the actual cost price and not any excess had	beencharged.   The tribunal held on a consideration of oral	 anddocumentary  evidence that the management had  charged	morethan the cost price and held that they were bound to  refundthe same.The  second  issue  was in respect of  a  claim	 for  cumblyallowance.   Chandramalai Tea Estate is situated at  a	highaltitude.  It is not disputed that it had been customary forthe  Estates  in  this region to pay  blanket  allowance  toworkmen	 to enable them to furnish themselves with  blanketsto  meet the rigours of the weather and that it	 had  reallybecome	a part of the terms and conditions of service.	 Butin spite of it the management of this Estate stopped paymentof the allowance from 1949 onwards and resumed payment	onlyin 1954.  The management's defence was that any dispute	 nothaving been raised about this till August 9, 1955, there wasno  reason for raising it at this late stage.  The  Tribunalrejected this contention and awarded cumbly allowance of Rs.39 per workman-made up of Rs. 7 per year for the years 1949,1950  and  1951 and Rs. 9 per year for the  years  1952	 and1953.On the third issue while the workmen pleaded that the-strikewas  justified the management contended that it was  illegaland  unjustified.  The Tribunal held that both parties	wereto  blame for the strike and ordered the management  to	 payworkers 50% of their total emoluments for the strike period.On  the	 question  of  excess  price  of  rice	having	beencollected the appellant's contention before us is limited tothe question of fact, whether the Tribunal was right in	 itsconclusion  that  more than cost price	was  realised.	 TheTribunal  has  based  its conclusion as	 regards  the  pricerealised by the management on entries made in58454the  management's own documents.  As regards what such	ricecost  the management it held that for the months  of  April,July  and  August and September the price was shown  by	 themanagement's   documents  while	 for  May  and	June   thesedocuments did not disclose the price.  For these two  monthsthe Tribunal held the market price of rice as proved by	 theworkers'  witness No. 6 to have been the price at which	 theEstate's  management procured their rice.  We are unable  tosee anything that would justify us in interfering with theseconclusions  of	 facts.	 Indeed the documents on  which	 theTribunal  has based its conclusions were not even made	partof the Paper-Book so that even if we had wanted to  considerthis question ourselves it would be impossible for us to  doso.   We  are satisfied that the Tribunal was right  in	 itsconclusions as regards the cost price of rice to the manage-ment and the price actually realised by the management	fromworkmen.   The	management's  case  that  the  workmen	werecharged	 only  the  cost  price of  rice  has  rightly	beenrejected  by the Tribunal.  The fact that workmen  were	 notcompelled  to  purchase rice from the management  is  hardlymaterial;  the	management had opened the shop to  help	 theworkmen and if it is found that it charged excess rates,  infairness,  the workmen must be reimbursed.  The award in  sofar as it directed refund of the excess amount collected  onthe  basis  of	the figures found  by  the  Tribunal  cannottherefore be successfully challenged.On  the question of the cumbly allowance it is important  tonote  that the only defence raised was that the	 demand	 hadbeen  made  too late.  The admitted fact that  it  had	beenregularly  paid year after year for many years till  it	 wasstopped	 in  1949 is sufficient to establish  the  workmen'scase that payment of a proper cumbly allowance had become  apart  of their conditions of service.  We do not think	thatthe mere fact that the workmen did not raise any dispute  onthe  management's  refusal to implement	 this  condition  ofservice till August 9, 1955, would be a sufficient reason torefuse	 them  such  payment.	The  management	 had   actedarbitrarily  and  illegally  in stopping  payment  of  theseallowances from 1949 to 1954.  They455cannot now be heard to say that they should not be asked  topay it merely because the years have already gone by.  It isreasonable to think that even though the management did	 notpay  the allowance the workmen had to provide  blankets	 forthemselves  at	their own expense.  The Tribunal  has  actedjustly in directing payment of the allowances to the workmenfor  the years 1949 to 1953.  The correctness of  the  ratesawarded	 by the Tribunal is not challenged before  us.	 TheTribunal's award on this issue also is therefore maintained.This  brings  us to the question whether  the  tribunal	 wasright in awarding 50% of emoluments to the work. men for thestrike	period.	 It is clear that on November 30, 1955,	 theUnion knew that conciliation attempts had failed.  The	nextstep would be a report by the Conciliation Officer, of	suchfailure to the Government and it would have been proper	 andreasonable  for the Union to address the Government  at	 thesame time and request that a reference should be made to theIndustrial  Tribunal.  The Union however did not  choose  towait  and  after giving notice on December 1, 1955,  to	 themanagement  that it had decided to strike from	December  9,1955,  actually	 started the strike from that day.   It	 hasbeen urged on behalf of the appellant that there was nothingin  the nature of the demands to justify such  hasty  actionand  in fairness the Union should have taken the normal	 andreasonable  course provided by law by asking the  Governmentto make a reference under the Industrial Disputes Act beforeit  decided to strike.	The main demands of the	 Union	wereabout  the  cumbly  allowance and the  price  of  rice.	  Asregards	 the  cumbly allowance they had said  nothing  since1949  when it was first stopped till the Union raised it  onAugust	9,  1955.  The grievance for  collection  of  excessprice of rice was more recent but even so it was not of suchan  urgent  nature that the interests of labour	 would	havesuffered irreparably if the procedure prescribed by law	 forsettlement of such disputes through industrial tribunals wasresorted  to.	After all it is not the	 employer  only	 whosuffers	 if production is stopped by strikes.  While on	 theone456hand it has to be remembered that strike is a legitimate andsometimes  unavoidable weapon in the hands of labour  it  isequally important to remember that indiscriminate and  hastyuse of this weapon should not be encouraged.  It will not beright  for  labour to think that for any kind  of  demand  astrike	can  be commenced with impunity	 without  exhaustingreasonable   avenues  for  peaceful  achievement  of   theirobjects.  There may be cases where the demand is of such  anurgent and serious nature that it would not be reasonable toexpect	labour to wait till after asking the  Government  tomake a reference.  In such cases, strike even before such  arequest has been made may well be justified.  The present isnot  however one of such cases.	 In our opinion the  workmenmight  well  have waited for some  time	 after	conciliationefforts failed before starting a strike and in the  meantimeto  have asked the Government to make the  reference.	Theydid  not  wait at all.	The conciliation efforts  failed  onNovember  30, 1955, and on the very next day the Union	madeits  decision on strike and sent the notice of the  intendedstrike from the 9th December, 1955, and on the 9th December,1955,  the  workmen actually struck  work.   The  Governmentappear	to  have acted quickly and referred the	 dispute  onJanuary	 3,  1956.  It was after this that  the	 strike	 wascalled	off.   We are unable to see how the strike  in	suchcircumstances could be held to be justified.The Tribunal itself appears to have been in two minds on thequestion.   Its	 conclusion appears to be  that	 the  strikethough	not  fully justified, was half	justified  and	halfunjustified   we find it difficult to appreciate this curiousconcept	  of   half  justification.   In   any	 case,	 thecircumstances  of  the	present	 case  do  not	support	 theconclusion  that  the strike was justified at all.   We	 arebound  to hold in view of the circumstances mentioned  abovethat  the Tribunal erred in holding that the strike  was  atleast partially justified.  The error is so serious that  weare  bound  in	the interests of justice to  set  aside	 thedecision.   There  is,	in  our view,  no  escape  from	 theconclusion  that  the  strike was  unjustified	and  so	 theworkmen are not entitled to any wages for the strike period.       457       We  therefore  allow the appeal in part and  set	 aside	the       award  in  so far as it directed the payment of 50%  of	the       total emoluments for the strike period but maintain the rest       of the award.  There will be no order as to costs.       Appeal allowed.