PETITIONER:MESSRS MELA RAM & SONS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,PUNJAB.DATE OF JUDGMENT:21/02/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, SUDHI RANJANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.CITATION: 1956 AIR  367		  1956 SCR  166ACT: Indian Income Tax Act,1922 (XI of 1922),ss.23,30(1)(2),31,33-Assessment of Income-tax-Notice of demand-Appeal  againstassessment-Received  in Appellate  Assistant  Commissioner'sOffice out of time-Prayer for condonation of delay rejected-Order of Assistant Commissioner dismissing an appeal as	 outof time-Whether one under s. 30(2)or under s. 31 of the Act-Whether appeal competent therefrom.HEADNOTE:The appellant firm filed appeals against orders assessing itto  income-tax	and super-tax for the  years  1945-1946	 and1946-1947  beyond  the time prescribed by s.  30(2)  of	 theIncome-tax Act.	 The appeals were numbered, and notices wereissued for their hearing under s. 31.  At the hearing of theappeals	 before	 the Appellate Assistant  Commissioner,	 theDepartment  took the objection that the appeals were  barredby time.  The appellant prayed for condonation of delay, butthat  was refused, and the appeals were dismissed  as  time-barred.	  The appellant then preferred appeals	against	 theorders of dismissal to the Tribunal under s. 33 of the	Act,and  the  Tribunal  dismissed them on the  ground  that	 theorders	of  the	 Assistant Commissioner	 were  in  substancepassed	under  s. 30(2) and not under s. 31 of the  Act	 andthat no appeal lay against them under s. 33 of the Act.On a reference under s. 66(1) of the Act the High Court heldthat the orders of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner weremade  under s. 30(2) and were not appealable under s. 33  ofthe Act.On appeal by special leave to the Supreme Court the questionfor determination was whether an order dismissing an  appealpresented under s. 30 as out of time was one under s.  30(2)or under s. 31 of the Act because if it was the former therewas  no appeal provided against it; if it was the latter  itwas open to appeal under s. 33.Held that the orders of the Appellate Assistant Commissionerfell within s. 31.A  right of appeal is a substantive right and is a  creatureof the statute.	 S. 30(1) confers on the assessee a right ofappeal	against	 certain orders and an order  of  assessmentunder  s. 23 is one of them.  The appellant had therefore  asubstantive  right under s. 30(1) to prefer appeals  againstorders of assessment made by the Income Tax Officer.167An  appeal presented out of time is an appeal and  an  orderdismissing it as time-barred is one passed in appeal.Section 31 is the only provision relating to the hearing anddisposal of appeals and if an order dismissing an appeal  asbarred by limitation as in the present case is one passed inappeal	it  must fall within s. 31 and as s.  33  confers  aright  of appeal against all orders passed under s.  31,  itmust also be appealable.To  fall  within s. 31 it is not necessary  that  the  ordershould expressly address itself to and decide on the  meritsof  the assessment and it is sufficient that the  effect  ofthe order is to confirm the assessment as when the appeal isdismissed on a preliminary point.An  order rejecting an appeal on the, ground  of  limitationafter it had been admitted is one under s. 31, though  thereis no consideration of the merits of the assessment.Held  therefore that the orders of the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  holding that there were no sufficient  reasonsfor  excusing the delay and rejecting the appeals  as  time-barred would be orders passed under s. 31 and would be	opento  appeal, and it would make no difference in the  positionwhether	 the orders of dismissal were made before  or  afterthe appeals were admitted.Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  Madras v. Mtt.  `r.   S.	 Ar.Arunachalam Chettiar, ([1953] S.C.R. 463), explained.Case-law discussed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 17 of 1954.Appeal	by Special Leave from the Judgment  and	 Order-datedthe 11th day of June 1951 of the Punjab High Court in  CivilReference No. 2 of 1951.Hardyal Hardy and Sardar Singh, for the appellant.C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India (G.	N.Joshi and R. H. Dhebar, with him) for the 'respondent.1956.  February 21.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARIAMA  AYYAR J.--The appellant is a firm carrying  onbusiness at Ludhiana in the Punjab.  The Income-tax  Officerassessed  its  income for 1945-1946 at Rs.  71,186,  and  on17-9-1947  a  notice  of demand -was served on	it  for	 Rs.29,857-6-0  on	account of income-tax  and  super-tax.	 Theappellant preferred an168appeal against the assessment, and it was actually  receivedin the office of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner on  5-11-1947.  It was then out of time by 19 days; but the appealwas  registered	 as  No. 86, and notice	 for  hearing  undersection	 31 was issued for 13-12-1947, and after  undergoingseveral	 adjournments, it was actually heard  on  1-10-1948.For the year 1946-1947, the Income-tax Officer assessed	 theincome	of  the	 firm at Rs. 1,09,883, and  on	29-9-1947  anotice	of  demand was served on it for Rs.  51,313-14-0  onaccount	  of  income-tax  and  super-tax.    The   appellantpreferred  an  appeal against this assessment,	and  it	 wasactually  received in the office of the Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  on  5-11-1947, and it was then 7 days  out  oftime.	It was registered as No. 89, and notice for  hearingunder  section 31 was issued for 24-6-1948.  Eventually,  itwas heard along with Appeal No. 86 on 1-10-1948.  At the hearing, the Department took the objection that theappeals	 were  presented  out of time,	and  were  thereforeliable	 to   be  dismissed.   The  appellant	prayed	 forcondonation of the delay on the ground that following on thepartition of the country the conditions were very unsettled,that curfew order had been promulgated and was in force, andthat the post office did not accept registered letters,	 andthat  the traffic on the Grand Trunk Road was  closed.,	 andthat  in  view of these exceptional  circumstances,  it	 badsufficient cause for not presenting the appeals in time.  On31-12-1948  the	 Appellate  Assistant  Commissioner   passedorders	in  both  the appeals, holding that  there  was	 notsufficient  ground  for condoning the delay,  and  rejectingthem  in limine.  These orders were purported to  be  passedunder section 31 read along with section 30(2).  Against  these  orders, the  appellant  preferred  appealsunder section 33 of the Act to the Appellate Tribunal  whichby  its	 order dated 4-4-1950 dismissed them on	 the  groundthat  the  orders  of the  Assistant  Commissioner  were  insubstance passed under section 30 (2) and not under  section31 and that no appeal lay against them under section 33,  Onthe applica-169tions of the appellant, the Tribunal referred under  section66(1)  of the Income Tax Act the following question for	 thedecision of the High Court of Punjab: "Whether  in the circumstances of the case appeals  lay  tothe  Tribunal  against	orders of  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner dismissing the appeals against the	 assessmentsfor the years 19451946 and 1946-1947 in limine".  The  reference was beard by Khosla and Harnam	 Singh	JJ.,who  held  following an earlier decision of  that  court  inDewan Chand v. Commissioner of Incometax(1) that the  ordersof  the Appellate Assistant Commissioner were under  section30(2)  and not appealable under section 33.  Certificate  toappeal to this Court against this order having been  refusedby  the High Court, the appellant applied for  and  obtainedleave to appeal to this Court under article 136 of the	Con-stitution, and that is how the appeal comes before US.  The provisions of the Act bearing on the question may	 nowbe  referred  to.  Section 30(1) confers on the	 assessee  aright  of  appeal against orders passed under  the  sectionsspecified  therein.  Section 30(2) provides that the  appealshall  ordinarily  be presented within thirty  days  of	 theorder	of   assessment,   but	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner may admit an appeal after the expiration of theperiod if he is satisfied that the appellant bad  sufficientcause  for  not presenting it within that  period.   Section30(3)  provides that "the appeal shall be in the  prescribedform  and  shall  be verified  in  the	prescribed  manner".Section	 31(1) enacts that "the Appellate Assistant  Commis-sioner	shall  fix a day and place for the  hearing  of	 theappeal,	 and  may from time to time  adjourn  the  hearing".Section	 31(3)	specifies the orders that may be  passed  inappeals according as they are directed against orders passedunder the one or the other of the sections of the Act  whichare specified in section 30(1).	 When the appeal is  againstan order of assessment under section 23-and this is what  weare con-(1)  (1951] 20 1 T.R. 621,170cerned with in this appeal-it is provided in section  31(3),clauses	 (a)  and (b) that in disposing of  the	 appeal	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner may (a)  confirm,  reduce,enhance	 or  annul  the assessment, or	(b)  set  aside	 theassessment  and	 direct the.  Incometax Officer	 to  make  afresh  assessment after making such further enquiry  as	 theIncome-tax Officer thinks fit.	Section 33(1) enacts that,"Any  assessee objecting to an order passed by an  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner under section 28 or section  31	 mayappeal	to the Appellate Tribunal within sixty days  of	 thedate on which such order is communicated to him". Stated succinctly, section 30 confers a right of appeal  onthe  assessee,	section	 31 provides  for  the	hearing	 anddisposal  of the appeal, and section 33 confers a  right  offurther appeal against orders passed under section 31, Now,  on these provisions the question is whether an  orderdismissing  an appeal presented under section 30 as  out  oftime  is one under section 30(2) or under section 31 of	 theAct.   If  it  is the former, there is	no  appeal  providedagainst it; if it is the latter, it is open to appeal  undersection	 33.   On  this question, there	 has  been  a  sharpconflict  of  opinion among different High Courts  and	evenamong different Benches of the same High Court.	 The  BombayHigh Court has held that when an appeal is presented out  oftime,  and there is no order of condonation of	delay  undersection	 30(2),	 there	is, in law,  no	 appeal	 before	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner, and that an order by	 himrejecting the appeal does not fall within section 31 and  isnot  appealable: Commissioner of Income-tax v.	Mysore	Ironand Steel Works(1) and K. K. Porbunderwalla v.	Commissionerof  Income-tax(2); but that if the appeal is admitted  afteran  order  of condonation is made under	 section  30(2),  anorder  subsequently  passed dismissing it on the  ground  oflimitation  would  be  one under section  31  and  would  beappealable under section 33 and the result will be the	sameeven when the appeal is admitted without(1) .[1949] 17 I.T.R. 478,(2) [1952] 21 I.T.R. 63.171any  order of condonation under section 30(2):	Champalal  Asharam v. Commissioner of Income-tax(1). The  High Court of Allahabad has also taken the same  view,and  held  that	 an  order refusing  to	 condone  delay	 andrejecting an appeal before it was admitted was not one undersection	 31 and was not appealable: Vide Shivnath Prasad  v.Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  Central	and  U.	 P.(3)	 andMunicipal Board, Agra v. Commissioner of Income-tax, U.	 P.(3 ); but that ail order dismissing the appeal as time-barredafter it had been admitted was one under section 31 and	 wasappeable: Mohd.	 Nain Mohd.  Alam v. Commissioner of Income-tax(1).	  The  High  Court  of	Punjab	has  held  followingShivnath  Prasad v. Commissioner of  Incometax, Central	 andU.  P.(2) and Commissioner of Incometax v. Mysore  Iron	 andSteel	Works(5)   that	  when	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner  declines	to  condone delay  and	rejects	 theappeal,	 it is one under section 30(2) and  not	 appealable.It  has	 further  held	that even if  the  appeal  bad	beenadmitted  without an order of condonation and  dismissed  atthe  hearing  on the ground of limitation, it would  not  beunder section 31, because the scheme of the Act contemplatedthat an order to be passed under that section must relate tothe  merits of the assessment.	It is on this decision	thatthe judgment under appeal is based It may be mentioned	thatthe decision in Dewan Chand v. Commissioner of Income-tax(6)was  dissented from in a recent decision of the Punjab	HighCourt in General Agencies v. Income-tax Commissioner(7) .In  Commissioner of Income-tax v. Shahzadi Begum the  MadrasHigh Court has held that an order-declining to excuse  delayand rejecting the appeal is one under section 31, whether itis made before the appeal is admitted or after, and that  anappeal which is filed out of time is, nonetheless, an appealfor purposes of section 31, and that an order dismissing  itwould be appealable under section 33.  In Gour Mohan(1)  [1953] 23 I.T.R. 464,(3)  [1951] 19 I.T.R. 63.(5)  [1949] 17 I.T.R. 478.(7)  A.I R. 1956 Punjab 26.(2)  [1936] 3 I.T.R. 200.(4)  [1951] 19 I.T.R. 58.(6)  [1951] 20 I.T.R. 621.(8)  [1952] 21 I.T.R. 1.172Mullick	 v. Commissioner of Agricultural Income-tax(1),	 theCalcutta  High Court has, after a full discussion,  come  tothe  conclusion that an order of dismissal on the ground  oflimitation  at	whatever  stage was  one  which	 fell  undersection	 31.   It  is  unnecessary to  refer  to  the  viewsexpressed  in decisions of other High Courts, as  the  pointnow  under  discussion did not directly arise  for  decisiontherein.  The question is which of these views is the correct one toadopt.	We start with this that under section 33 it is	onlyorders	under section 31 that are appealable.  The  questiontherefore narrows itself to this whether an order  decliningto condone delay and dismissing the appeal as barred by timeis  an order under section 31.	It will be, if it is  passedin  appeal against an order of assessment, and is one  whichaffirms	 it.   Now, the conflicting views expressed  by	 theseveral	 High  Courts centre round two points: (1)  when  anappeal is presented out of time and there has been a refusalto condone delay under section 30(2), is an order  rejectingit as time-barred one passed in appeal; and (2) if it is, issuch  an order one confirming the assessment within  section31(3)(a)?  On the first point, as already stated, it has been held bythe  Bombay  High Court that while an  order  dismissing  anappeal	as  time-barred after it is admitted  is  one  undersection 31, a similar order passed before it is admitted  isone  under section 30(2).  The ratio of this distinction  isstated	to  be that in law there is no appeal unless  it  ispresented in time, and if presented beyond time, unless	 thedelay  is excused.  In Commissioner of Income-tax v.  MysoreIron  and Steel Works(2), Chagla, C.J. stated  the  positionthus:  "An  asseesee has a statutory right to present  an  appealwithin thirty days without any order being required from theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner  for	 admission  of	thatappeal.	  But  if  the time prescribed	expires,  then	thatstatutory right to present an appeal goes; and an appeal canonly be entertained provided it is admitted by the AppellateAssistant Commissioner after condoning the delay.(1) [1952] 22 I.T.R. 131.(2) [1949] 17 I.T.R. 478.173Therefore  before an appeal could be admitted in this  case,an  order  from	 the Appellate	Assistant  Commissioner	 wasrequisite  that the delay had been condoned and it was	onlyon  such  an  order  being made that  the  appeal  could  beentertained  by the Appellate Assistant	 Commissioner.	 Nowsection 31 deals only with such appeals which are  presentedwithin the prescribed period or admitted after the delay hasbeen  condoned,	 and the procedure laid down in	 section  31with  regard to the hearing of appeals only applies to	suchappeals.   Therefore,  in  my opinion,	when  the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner refused to condone the delay,  therewas no appeal before him which he could hear and dispose  ofas  provided under section 31 of the Act.  Section  33	thengives the right of appeal to the assessee from an order madeby the Appellate Assistant Commissioner either under section28  or under section 31.  Therefore the Legislature did	 notgive  the right of appeal to the assessee against  an  ordermade  by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner under  section30 of the Act".Learned	 counsel for the appellant disputes the	 correctnessof  the	 last  observation that an order  of  the  AppellateAssistant  comissioner refusing to condone the delay is	 oneunder  section 30(2), and contends that the only order	thatcould  be passed under that section was one excusing  delay,and  an order refusing to condone it will fall	outside	 it,and that such an order could only be made under section	 31.We  find  it difficult to accede to this  contention.	Whenpower  is  granted to an authority to be  exercised  at	 hisdiscretion, it is necessarily implicit in the grant that  hemay  exercise it in such manner as the	circumstances  mightwarrant.  And if the Appellate Assistant Commissioner has  adiscretion to excuse the delay, he has also a discretion  inappropriate cases to decline to do so.	We are therefore  ofopinion	 that the refusal to excuse delay is an order  undersection 30(2.). But  the question still remains whether the view  taken  inCommissioner of Income-tax v. Mysore Iron23174and  Steel Works(1) and K. K. Porbunderwalla v	Commissionerof  Income-tax (2) that an appeal which is filed beyond	 theperiod	of  limitation	is, in the eye of  law,	 no  appeal,unless and until there is a condonation of delay, and  that,in consequence, an order passed thereon cannot be held to bepassed	in appeal so as to fall within section 31 is  right.Now,  a	 right of appeal is a substantive right,  and  is  acreature  of  the  statute.  Section 30(1)  confers  on	 theassessee  a right of appeal against certain orders,  and  anorder  of assessment under section 23 is one of	 them.	 Theappellant  therefore had a substantive right  under  section30(1) to prefer appeals against orders of assessment made bythe  Income-tax	 Officer.  Then, we come to  section  30(2),which enacts a period of limitation within which this  rightis  to be exercised.  If an appeal, is not presented  withinthat time, does that cease to be an appeal as provided undersection	 30(1)?	  It  is  well	established  that  rules  oflimitation,  pertain  to the domain of adjectival  law,	 andthat  they  operate  only  to bar  the	remedy	but  not  toextinguish  the	 right.	 An appeal preferred  in  accordancewith section 30(1) must, therefore, be an appeal in the	 eyeof  law,  though  having been presented	 beyond	 the  periodmentioned  in section 30(2) it is liable to be dismissed  inlimine.	  There might be a provision in the statute that  atthe  end of the period of limitation prescribed,  the  rightwould  be  extinguished, as for example, section 28  of	 theLimitation  Act; but there is none such here.  On the  otherhand,  in conferring a right of appeal under  section  30(1)and  prescribing  a period of limitation  for  the  exercisethereof separately under section 30 (2), the legislature hasevinced	 an  intention	to maintain  the  distinction  well-recognised   under  the	 general  law  between	what  is   asubstantive  right and what is a matter of  procedural	law.In  Nagendranath  Dey v. Suresh Chandra Dey(3)	Sir  DinshawMulla  construing the word ' appeal' in the third column  ofarticle 182 of the Limitation Act observed: "There is no definition of appeal in the Civil Pro-(1) [1949] 17 I.T.R. 478.     (2) [1952] 21 I.T.R. 63.(3)  59 I.A. 283, 287.175cedure	Code,  but their Lordships have no  doubt  that	 anyapplication by a party to an appellate, Court, asking it  toset aside or revise a decision of a subordinate Court, is anappeal within the ordinary acceptation of the term, and thatit  is	no  less  an  appeal  because  it  is  irregular  orincompetent". These	observations  were  referred to	 with  approval	 andadopted by this Court in Raja Kulkarni and others v.   TheState of Bombay(1).  In Promotho Nath Roy v. W.	  A. Lee(2),an  order dismissing an application as barred by  limitationafter  rejecting  an  application under	 section  5  of	 theLimitation Act to excuse the delay in presentation was	heldto  be one "passed on appeal" within the meaning of  section109  of	 the Civil Procedure Code.  On the  principles	laiddown in these decisions, it must be held that an appeal pre-sented out of time is an appeal, and an order dismissing  itas time-barred is one passed in appeal.Then,  the  next question is whether it is an  order  passedunder  section	31  of the Act.	 That section  is  the	onlyprovision  relating to the hearing and disposal of  appeals,and if an order dismissing an appeal as barred by limitationis  one	 passed in appeal, it must fall within	section	 31.And  as	 section 33 confers a right of	appeal	against	 allorders passed under section 31, it must also be	 appealable.But  then,  it	is  contended  that  in	 an  appeal  againstassessment the only order that could be passed under section31 (3)(a) is one which confirms, reduces, enhances or annulsthe  assessment, that such an order could be made only on  aconsideration of the merits of the appeal, and that an orderdismissing it on the ground of limitation is not within	 thesection.   That	 was  the  view	 taken	in  Dewan  Chand  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax(3).	 But there is practically  aunanimity of opinion among all the other High Courts that tofall within the section it is not necessary that the-  ordershould expressly address itself to and decide on the  meritsof the assessment, and that it is sufficient that the effectof the order is to confirm the assessment(1) [1954] S.C.R. 384, 388.   (2) A.I.R. 1921 Cal. 415.		 (3) [1951] 20 I.T.R. 621.176as when the appeal is dismissed on a preliminary point.	  InCommissioner	of   Income-tax	  v.   Shahzadi	   Begum(1),Satyanarayana Rao, J. said: "If  the appeal is dismissed as incompetent or is  rejectedas  it	was filed out of time and no  sufficient  cause	 wasestablished,  it  results  in an affirmation  of  the  orderappealed against". In  Gour  Mohan  Mullick v.  Commissioner  of	AgriculturalIncome-tax(2),	construing  sections 34, 35 and	 36  of	 theBengal	Agricultural  Income-Tax  Act  which  are  in  termsidentical with those of sections 30, 31 and 33 of the IndianIncome-Tax Act, Chakravarti, J. observed:  "I  would base that view on the ground that the order,  ineffect,	 confirmed the assessment or, at any rate,  disposedof  the	 appeal	 and was thus an  order	 under	section	 35,because what that section really contemplates is a  disposalor  conclusion	of  the	 appeal	 and  the  forms  of  ordersspecified in it are not exhaustive.  An appellate order	 maynot,  directly and by itself, confirm, or reduce or  enhanceor  annul an assessment and may yet dispose of	the  appeal.If  it	does so, it is immaterial whether the  ground  is  afinding that the appeal is barred by limitation or a findingthat  the  case is not a fit one for extension	of  time  orboth". This  reasoning is also the basis of the decisions  of	 theBombay	and Allahabad High Courts which bold that  an  orderrejecting an appeal on the ground of limitation after it hadbeen  admitted is one under section 31, though there  is  noconsideration of the merits of the assessment.	Thus, in  K.K. Porbunderwalla v. Commissioner of Income-tax(3),  Chagla,C. J. observed:``....	although the Appellate Assistant Commis	 sioner	 didnot  hear the appeal on merits and held that the appeal	 wasbarred by limitation his order was under section 31 and	 theeffect of that order was to confirm the assessment which badbeen made by the Income-tax Officer".In Special Manager of Court of Wards v. Commissioner(1) [1952] 21 I.T.R. 1.		 (2) [1952] 22 I.T.R. 131.(3)  [1952] 21 I.T.R. 63.177of  Income-tax(1), the Allahabad High Court stated that	 theview was "possible that even though the period of limitationis  prescribed	under  section 30 and  the  power  to  grantextension is also given in that section the power is  reallyexercised  under  section  31  as  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  when  he decides not to extend the  period  oflimitation  may	 be said in a sense to	have  confirmed	 theassessment".  The  respondent  relied  on  a  later	 decision  of	the)'Allahabad  High  Court	 in Mahabir  Prasad  Niranjanlal  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax(2), wherein it was held  by	 thelearned	 Judges,  departing  from  the	previous  course  ofauthorities  of that court, that an order of  the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner dismissing an appeal as	 time-barredwas  one under section 30(2) and not under section  31,	 andwas  therefore	not appealable.	 This conclusion  they	feltthemselves bound to adopt by reason of certain	observationsof this Court in Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras v.	Mtt.Ar.  S. Ar.  Arunachalam Chettiar(3).  But when read in	 thecontext	 of  the point that actually arose for	decision  inthat  case,  those  observations  lend	no  support  to	 theconclusion reached by the learned Judges.  There, the  factswere  that  an appeal was preferred by	the  assessee  undersection	 30(1) against an order of the	Income-tax  Officer,and   that   was  dismissed  by	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner  on 19-11-1945 as incompetent.  No	 appeal	 wasfiled  against this order, and it became final.	 But  actingon  a  suggestion made in the order  dated  19-11-1945,	 theassessee filed an original miscellaneous application  beforethe  Appellate Tribunal for relief, and by its	order  dated20-2-1946 the Tribunal set aside the findings of the Income-tax  Officer, and directed him to make a fresh	computation.Then, on the application of the Commissioner of	 Income-tax,the Tribunal referred to the High Court under section  66(1)of the Income-tax Act the following question:  "Whether in the facts and circumstances of thecase, the order of the Bench dated 20th February,(1) [1950] 18 I.T.R. 204, 212.	(2 ) [1955] 27 I.T.R. 268.(3)  [1953] S.C.R. 463: 474-475,1781946  in  the miscellaneous application	 is  an	 approoriateorder	and   is  legally  valid  and  passed	within	 thejurisdiction and binding on the Income-tax Officer".  The  High Court declined to answer this reference  on	 theground that the order of the Tribunal was not one passed  inan appeal under section 33(1), and that In consequence,	 thereference  under section 66(1) was itself incompetent.	 Thecorrectness  of	 this decision was challenged on  appeal  tothis Court, and in affirm ing it, this Court observed:  ........  when  on  19th  November  1945,  the   AppellateAssistant  Commissioner	 declined to admit the	appeal,	 theassessee  did  not  prefer  any	 appeal	 but  only  made   amiscellaneous  application  before the	Appellate  Tribunal.There  is  no  provision  in  the  Act	permitting  such  anapplication.   Indeed,	in  the statement of  the  case	 theAppellate   Tribunal  states  that  in	 entertaining	thatapplication  and  correcting  the error	 of  the  Income-taxOfficer	 it  acted in exercise of what it  regarded  as	 itsinherent powers.  There being no appeal under section  33(1)and  the order having been made in exercise of its  supposedinherent jurisdiction, the order cannot possibly be regardedas  one under section 33(4) and there being no	order  undersection	 33(4)	there could be no  reference  under  section66(1) or (2), and the appellate Court properly refused toentertain it".  There is, of course, nothing in the decision itself  whichbears  on  the	point now  under  discussion.	But  certainobservations occurring at pages 474 and 475 were referred toby  the learned Judges as leading to the conclusion that  anorder  dismissing  an appeal as barred by  time	 would	fallundersection 3O(2).  Now, those observations came to be madeby  way	 of answer to a new contention put  forward  by	 thelearned,  Attorney-General in support of the  appeal.	Thatcontention was that the miscellaneous application  presentedto  the Tribunal might be treated as an appeal	against	 theorder  dated  19-11-1945,  in which case  the  order  passedthereon on 20-2-1946 would fall under section 33(4) and	 thereference would be com-179petent.	  'In disagreeing with this contention,	 this  Courtobserved   that	 the  appeal  to  the  Appellate   AssistantCommissioner was incompetent under section 30(1), that	evenif it was competent, the order dated 19-11-1945 was not	 onecontemplated  by  section 31, and there could be  no  appealagainst	 such an order under section 33(1).  Now, it  shouldbe noticed that the question actually referred under section66(1)  was the correctness and legality of the order  passedin a miscellaneous application and not of any order made  inan  appeal preferred under section 33(1).  In this  context,the  point  sought to be raised by  the	 learned,  Attorney-General	 did  not  arise  at  all  for	decision,  and	 theobservations   in  answer  thereto  cannot  be	read  as   apronouncement on the question of the maintainability of	 theappeal, much less as a decision that an order dismissing  anappeal	as barred by limitation is one under section  30(2).Accordingly,  the  question whether an order  dismissing  anappeal as barred by limitation falls under section 30(2)  orsection 31 remains unaffected by the observations in Commis-sioner	of Income-tax, Madras v. Mtt.  Ar.  S.	Ar.   Aruna-chalam Chettiar(1).  Then again, under the provisions of the Act, limitation isnot the only preliminary ground on which an appeal could  bedisposed of without a consideration of the merits.   Section30(3)  provides that an "appeal shall be in  the  prescribedform  and shall be verified in the prescribed  manner".	  Ifthe  Appellate Assistant Commissioner holds that the  appealdoes not comply with the requirements of this enactment	 andrejects it on that ground, the order must be one made  undersection 31, since section 30(3) makes no provision for	suchan  order, as does section 30(2) in the case of	 limitation.All  the  orders  under section 31  being  appealable  undersection	 33, the order of dismissal for	 noncompliance	withsection 30(3) must also be appealable, and it was so decidedin  Maharani Gyan Manjari Kuari v. Commissioner	 of  Income-tax(2)	.  How	is  this view  to  be  reconciled  with	 thecontention that section 31 contemplates only orders on the(1) [1953] S.C.R. 463.(2) (1944) 12 I.T.R. 59.180merits	of  the assessment and not  on	preliminary  issues?Vide also the decision in Kunwarji Ananda v. Commissioner ofIncome-tax(1),	which was followed in Maharani Gyan  ManjariKuari  v. Commissioner of Income-tax(2), and in	 RamnarayanaDas Mandal v. Commissioner of Income-tax(3).  There is	thusabundant  authority for the position that section 31  shouldbe  liberally  construed so as to include  not	only  orderspassed	on a consideration of the merits of  the  assessmentbut  also orders which dispose of the appeal on	 preliminaryissues, such as limitation and the like.  The  learned	Solicitor-General sought to get	 over  thesedecisions  by taking up the position that section 31(3)	 (a)construed  in  its  literal and	 ordinary  sense,  conferredjurisdiction on the Appellate Assistant Commissioner only topass orders on the merits of the assessment, that it was nottherefore  open to him to entertain any question  which	 didnot directly relate to such merits, and that accordingly  hecould  not hear or decide any issue of a preliminary  naturesuch as limitation, and dispose of the appeal on the  ,basisof  the	 finding  on  that issue.   He	conceded  that	thiscontention  would run counter to numerous  authorities,	 butargued	 that  they  were  all	wrong.	 Having	 given	 dueconsideration to this contention, we are of opinion that  itis not well-founded.  Taking  the  plea  of	 limitation-which  is  what  we	 areconcerned  with in this appeal when there is a	judgment  ororder  against which the statute provides a right of  appealbut  none is preferred within the time prescribed  therefor,the respondent acquires a valuable right, of which he cannotbe  deprived by an order condoning delay and  admitting	 theappeal behind his back.	 And when such an order is passed expartehe	 has  a right to challenge its	correctness  at	 thebearing	 of  the  appeal.  That is the	position  under	 thegeneral	 law  (vide  Krishnasami .  Panikondar	v.  RamasamiChettiar(4),  and there is nothing in the provisions of	 theIncome Tax Act, which enacts a different principle.(1)  I	L.R. 11 Patna 187; A.I.R. 1931 Patna 306;  5  I.T.C.417.(2) [1944]12 I.T.R. 59.	       (3) (1950) 18 I.T.R. 660.(4) [1918] I.L.R. 41 Mad. 412; 45 I.A. 25.  181Therefore,  if	an appeal is admitted without  the  fact  ofdelay  in presentation having been noticed, clearly it	mustbe open to the Department to raise the objection at the timeof the hearing of the appeal.  That would also appear to  bethe  practice obtaining before. the Income-tax Tribunal,  asappears from the decisions cited before us, and that, in ouropinion,  is right.  Similar considerations would  apply  toother  objections  of a preliminary character, such  as	 onebased on section 30, sub-section (3).  We should be slow  toadopt  a  construction which deprives  parties	of  valuablerights.	  We  are  therefore  of  opinion  that	 contentionsrelating to preliminary issues are open to consideration  atthe  time  of  the  hearing of	the  appeal,  and  that	 thejurisdiction of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner is	 notlimited	 to the bearing of the appeal on the merits  of	 theassessment only.  In this view, the orders of the  AppellateAssistant Commissioner holding that there were no sufficientreasons for excusing the delay and rejecting the appeals  astime-barred  would  be orders passed under  section  31	 andwould be open to appeal, and it would make no difference  inthe  position whether the order of dismissal is made  beforeor after the appeal is admitted.The  question referred must accordingly be answered  in	 theaffirmative.  This appeal will therefore be allowed, and theorder of the court below set aside.  The appellant will havehis costs here and in the court below.24182