PETITIONER:E.   M. MUTHAPPA CHETTIAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE INCOME-TAX OFFICER, SPECIALCIRCLE, COIMBATOREDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/09/1960BENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALABENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALADAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  204		  1961 SCR  (1) 788ACT:Excess	Profits	 Tax-Assessment	 by service  of	 notices  onmanaging  Partner-Validity-If binding on the other  Partner-Tax,  if  can be recovered by  issue  of  certificate-ExcessProfits	 Tax  Act, 1940 (XV of 1940), ss. 8,  13,  21-IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), ss. 29, 44, 46(2).HEADNOTE:The  firm consisting of the appellant and another,  carryingon managing agency business, was on March 31, 1951, assessedto  excess  profits  tax for the year 1942  and	 the  brokenperiod from January, 1943 to March 4, 1943.  The  prescribednotices	 were served not on the appellant but on  the  otherpartner	 who, under the terms of the partnership  deed,	 wasthe  managing  partner.	  On March  4,	1943,  the  managingpartner gave notice of dissolution of the firm and thereuponthe  appellant	sued him for dissolution from such  date  asmight be specified by the court.  The trial Court upheld thedissolution  as and from the date notified by  the  managingpartner	 but  on  appeal  the High  Court  by  its  judgmentrendered  in 1953 fixed March 10, 1949, as the date  of	 thedissolution.  An appeal taken to the Supreme Court from thisdecision of the High Court was still pending.  The appellantchallenged  the validity of the order of assessment and	 theconsequent  proceedings	 for recovery of the  tax  assessed,under Art. 226 of the Constitution on the grounds, (a)	thatthere  was a dissolution of the firm on March 4,  1943,	 andthat notices served thereafter on the managing partner wouldnot  bind him, (b) that there was no demand of the  tax	 duefrom him under s. 29 of the Indian Income-tax Act and  that,consequently, the tax could not be recovered from him  unders.  46(2)  of  the Act, but the	 High  Court  dismissed	 hisapplication.Held,  that  the appellant could not be allowed to  plead  aprior dissolution and the assessment was binding on him.Even  assuming that the partnership stood dissolved  on	 thedate of the assessment, his position would not be different.Under  the  Excess  Profits  Tax  Act,	1940,  the  unit  ofassessment  was not the firm but the business, and an  orderof  assessment passed after notice to the  managing  partnerwould  be valid and binding on the appellant under S. 44  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, as modified by the  CentralBoard of Revenue under S.     21  of the Excess Profits	 TaxAct, 1940.A.G. Pandu Rao v. Collector of Madras, (1954) 26 I.T.  R.99  and Bose v. Manindra Lal Goswami, (1957) 33 I.T.R.	435,approved.789No  separate  notice  of demand under S. 29  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act, specifically addressed to the appellant, wasnecessary in order to recover the tax by the mode prescribedby  s. 46(2) of the Act.  Under the proviso to s. 21 of	 theExcess Profits Tax Act, 1940, the appellant was an  assesseewithin	the meaning of s. 29 of the Indian  Income-tax	Act,1922,  and  the	 notice of demand  served  on  the  managingpartner	 was notice to the appellant by virtue of s.  63  ofthe latter Act made applicable by s. 21 of the former.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 107 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 21, 1954, of the Madras High Court in W. P. No.	 498of 1952.			    WithPetition No. 130 of 1958.Petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution of India for	 theenforcement of Fundamental Rights.M.R. M. Abdul Karim and K. R. Choudhri, for the appellant(in C. A. No. 107156) and Petitioner (In Petn. 130/58).K.N. Rajagopala Sastri and D. Gupta, for the  respondents(in both the appeal and petition).1960.	September  21.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byAYYANGAR J.-Muthappa Chettiar, the appellant in Civil Appeal107  of	 1956  was sought to be proceeded  against  for	 therecovery from him of Excess Profits Tax assessed in  respectof the business of Muthappa & Co. of which he was a partner.He  disputed  the legality of the recovery  proceedings	 andfiled  Writ  Petition 498 of 1952 before the High  Court  ofMadras for the issue of a writ of prohibition for  directingthe Income-Tax Officer, E. P. T. Circle, Madras, not to takecoercive  steps	 against  him for the recovery	of  the	 taxassessed.  This petition was dismissed and Civil Appeal	 107of  1956 has been filed on special leave obtained from	thisCourt.	 During	 the  hearing by the  High  Court,  of	WritPetition  498  of  1952,  Muthappa  Chettiar  (referred	  tohereafter  as  the  appellant) sought  also  to	 impugn	 thelegality of the order of assessment to Excess lox790Profits	 Tax.  The learned Judges held however that, such  acontention  was not germane to the writ of  prohibition	 forwhich  he had prayed, adding also that there were no  meritsin the grounds urged.  To avoid any	technical objection,the  appellant has filed in this Court Petition 130 of	1958under Art. 32 of the Constitution in which the prayer is forthe grant of a writ of certiorari or other appropriate	writto quash the order of assessment to Excess Profits Tax,	 andthe  Appeal  and the Petition being thus  interrelated	havebeen heard together.We  shall first take up for consideration the matters  urgedin  the Writ Petition, as logically having  precedence	overthe  challenge	to the legality of the proceedings  for	 therecovery of the tax.  The facts necessary to appreciate	 thepoints urged are briefly these: The appellant and ThyagrajanChettiar (impleaded as the second respondent in Civil Appeal107  of 1956) were partners in a firm named Muthappa  &	 Co.started	 in  November, 1940, and the firm was  the  managingagent  of  a textile Mill called Saroja Mills Ltd.,  in	 theCoimbatore   district.	 The  assessment  which	  is   underchallenge  is for the Excess Profits Tax liability  of	thismanaging   agency  business  and  the  relevant	  chargeableaccounting periods are the calendar year 1942 and the brokenperiod January 1, 1943, to March 4, 1943.  The liability  ofthe firm to Income-Tax for the same periods was assessed  bythe  Income-Tax Officer by his orders dated March 15,  1948,by applying the provisions of s. 23(5)(b) of the  Income-taxAct, 1922, arid the appellant paid, when demanded, his shareof  the tax and there is now no dispute about the  proprietyof  that  assessment.	The income of  the  managing  agencybusiness  was  computed for Excess Profits Tax at  the	samefigure	as for assessment to Income Tax, and the  assessmentfor  the two chargeable accounting periods was completed  bythe Excess Profits Tax Officer by his order dated March	 31,1951,  and  it is the validity of this order  of  assessmentthat is challenged in Petition 130 of 1958.The first matter urged in support of the petition may be setout thus: Ail assessment to be valid must			    791be  after notice to the assessee.  In the present case,	 theassessment   was  admittedly  completed	 by   serving,	 theprescribed   notices  on  Thyagrajan  Chettiar	alone,	 whoaccording  to  the  terms of  the  partnership	between	 theparties	 was  the managing partner.  But it was	 urged	thatthere  had been a dissolution of the firm as and from  March4,  1943, that thereafter the partnership ceased  to  exist,and with it the mutual agency between the partners, with theresult that Thyagrajan Chettiar could not represent the firmwhich  had  ceased  to exist nor the  appellant.   On  thesepremises  it  was  submitted  that  the	 assessment  of	 thebusiness  to  Excess  Profits  Tax  after  notices  only  toThyagrajan Chettiar could not bind the firm nor at any	ratebind the appellant.In  our	 opinion there are two answers to  this	 submission,either	of  which would suffice to  reject  the	 appellant'splea:  (1)  That  on  the facts	 of  the  present  case	 theappellant is precluded from pleading that the firm had	beendissolved  at  the date of the assessment in 1951  and	fromraising	 any  objection to the representative  character  ofThyagrajan  Chettiar, (2) That on a proper  construction  ofthe provisions of the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940, even  ifthe  firm  of  Muthappa & Co. should be held  to  have	beendissolved  before  1951	 when the order	 of  assessment	 waspassed,	 the assessment of the managing agency	business  toExcess	Profits	 Tax was properly and  legally	effected  bynotice to Thyagrajan Chettiar.The  facts to which we have made reference are these:  Priorto the assessment year 1943-44, Thyagrajan Chettiar, as	 themanaging  partner of Muthappa & Co. was	 submitting  returnsfor Income-tax and was conducting the assessment proceedingson behalf of the firm.	Thyagrajan Chettiar published in thenewspaper  " Hindu " a notice announcing the dissolution  ofthe  firm as and from March 4, 1943, and followed it  up  byinforming  the	Income	Tax Officer  of	 this  circumstance.Thereafter  the	 Income Tax Officer wrote to  the  appellantenquiring  whether  the	 firm of Muthappa  &  Co.  had	beendissolved  and	if  so	from what  date.   By  letter  datedFebruary 1, 1945, the appellant792replied " I wish to inform you that Messrs.  Muthappa &	 Co.has  been  formed  as  per the	deed  of  partnership  datedNovember  4, 1940, and the rights of the partners  are	alsoretracted  therein.  But Mr. Thyagrajan Chettiar my  partnerhas  acted deliberately beyond the scope of the	 partnershipdeed in issuing a notice of dissolution of partnership on meon  March 4, 1943, and a suit has been filed against him  inthe  Coimbatore Sub-Court and is pending.  Pending  disposalof  the said suit  regret I am unable to accept the  allegeddissolution   or  to  give  the	 date  of   dissolution	  ofpartnership  called  for  in  your  letter  ".	Taking	 theappellant   at	his  word  the	income-tax  assessment	 wascompleted  after  notice  to  Thyagrajan  Chettiar  as	 thecontinuing  managing  partner.	In line	 with  the  positiontaken up by him, disputing that the firm had been  dissolvedby the acts or conduct of Thyagrajan Chettiar, the appellantfiled  a suit in the Sub-Court at Coimbatore contesting	 thevalidity  of  Thyagrajan Chettiar's  notice  of	 dissolutiondated  March  4, 1943, praying for a  declaration  that	 thepurported dissolution of the firm by Thyagrajan Chettiar wasinvalid	 and  inoperative,  himself  seeking  a	 decree	 fordissolution from a date to be specified by the Court and forrendition  of accounts on foot of a  subsisting	 partnershiptill  the date so fixed.  The Subordinate Judge	 upheld	 thevalidity of the dissolution by Thyagrajan Chettiar in  1943.From this judgment rendered in 1948 the appellant  preferredan appeal to the High Court.  This appeal was heard in	1953when the High Court allowed the appeal and fixed the date ofdissolution  as	 on  March 10, 1949.  It is  stated  that  afurther	 appeal	 from  this judgment of the  High  Court  ispending in this Court, so that even now the precise date  onwhich the firm should be held to be dissolved is a matter ofuncertainty.From the above it would be seen that it has always been	 thecase  of the appellant that the firm had not been  dissolvedin 1943.  At the date of the proceedings for the  assessmentto  Excess Profits Tax in 1951, with which Petition  130  of1958  is concerned, the position therefore was	as  follows:The  assertion	by the appellant that  the  partnership	 wasundissolved			    793and continued its existence, contained in his letter to	 theIncome	Tax Officer in February, 1945, still held  good	 andwas backed up by the proceedings he took in the Civil Courtsto  maintain that stand.  No doubt, his claim had  not	beenupheld	by the Subordinate Judge, but by the appeal that  hefiled,	he rendered the matter res sub-judice and  till	 thedecision of the High Court in 1953, the appellant could	 notobviously  suggest  any particular date as the date  of	 thedissolution.   The  submission	of  learned  Counsel   whichproceeds  on the assumption that there was a dissolution  ofthe  firm on March 4, 1943 ; or on March 10, 1949-which	 wasthe  date fixed by the High Court by its judgment  of  1953,has   to  be  rejected	as  wholly  inconsistent  with	 thecontentions urged by the appellant in the Civil suit and theappeal	therefrom.   In the circumstances,  the	 Income	 TaxOfficer	 could	not be blamed for treating the	firm  as  inexistence and similarly the Excess Profits Tax Officer also.It was common ground that at the date the Excess Profits TaxOfficer	 started proceedings for assessment,  the  appellanthad filed an appeal against the judgment of the	 SubordinateJudge  in O. S. 50 of 1946 and the same was pending  in	 theHigh Court and that it was only in 1953 that the appeal	 wasdisposed  of.  The contention now urged before us was,	thatas  the High Court had held that the firm should be  treatedas  having  been dissolved as and from March 10,  1949,	 theissue  of any notice to Thyagrajan Chettiar as the  managingpartner	  of  the  firm	 was  invalid  and  the	  assessmentproceedings  completed on that basis would also be  illegal.If the contention of the appellant were to prevail it  wouldmean that the validity or otherwise of the assessment  orderwould  be  retrospectively determined by the result  of	 theappellant's appeal which was pending before the High  Court,so  that if the High Court had held that the firm should  betreated	 as  dissolved only on the date of its	judgment  in1953,  the  assessment would be valid but that if  the	highCourt bad fixed the date of dissolution on some date earlierthan March 31, 1951, the assessment would be deemed invalid.This  argument has only to be stated to be  rejected.	Whenthis794aspect	of  the matter was put to learned  Counsel  for	 theappellant, he fairly conceded that he could not on the factsof  this  case	maintain  the position	that  the  order  ofassessment to Excess Profits Tax was vitiated because of thealleged disruption of the firm of Muthappa & Co. before	 thedate of that order.The  other  answer to the submission is that  even  assumingthat  the firm of Muthappa & Co. had been in fact  dissolvedon  some  date anterior to the assessment  of  the  managingagency business to Excess Profits Tax, that would not affectthe  validity of an assessment order passed after notice  tothe  person  in	 management  of	 the  business	during	 thechargeable  accounting periods, since, it was not  the	firmbut  " the business " that was the unit of  assessment.	  Inthis  connection learned Counsel for the appellant drew	 ourattention  to a decision of the Madras High Court in  A.  O.Pandu Rao v. Collector of Madras (1), and stated that it wasagainst	 him and directly covered the point and	 if  correctwould leave no scope for any further argument.	In that casea  firm	 consisting of three partners  carried	on  businessunder  the  name of P. Nagoji Rao & Son, with  one  of	themGannu  Rao as managing-partner.	 The  chargeable  accountingperiods concerned were the years from April 1, 1944 to March31, 1946.  There were quarrels among the partners which	 ledto  the	 filing	 of  a	suit  on  February  26,	 1947,	 fordissolution and accounts by two of the partners against	 themanaging-partner.   The	 suit was decreed  on  November	 14,1947,	declaring  the	firm  dissolved	 as  and  from	 theinstitution  of the suit-February 26, 1947.  The  assessmentof  the	 business  to Excess Profits Tax  was  completed  bynotices	 issued	 subsequent  to that date to  Gannu  Rao  asmanaging-partner  and the order of assessment was passed  onDecember 31, 1949, and a notice of demand under s. 29 of theIncome	Tax Act was served on him.  No demand  notices	wereserved	on the other two partners, but proceedings  for	 therecovery of the tax were taken against them on the  strengthof  the	 notices served on Gannu Rao.	These  two  partnersmoved the High Court(1) (1954) 26 I.T.  99.795under Art. 226 of the Constitution for the issue of writs ofCertiorari  to	quash  the orders of  assessment  to  ExcessProfits Tax and the proceedings for recovery of the tax	 duethereunder.   The  order of assessment was impugned  on	 thearound	that by virtue of the decree in the suit, there	 hadbeen  a	 dissolution of the firm and that Gannu	 Rao  havingceased to have authority to represent the firm or the  otherpartners,  the assessment could have been legally  completedonly  by notices under s. 13 of the Excess Profits  Tax	 Actbeing  served individually on the other partners,  and	thatthe  tax  could be recovered only after notices to  each  ofthem under s. 29 of the Income Tax Act.	 The learned  Judgesrepelled these objections by reference to the provisions  ofss. 8 and 13 of the Excess Profits Tax Act under which it isthe  " business " producing the income which is the unit  ofassessment  for	 Excess Profits Tax as contrasted  with	 theprovisions of the Indian Income tax Act under which the unitof  assessment	is either the  individual,  Hindu  undividedfamily, firm, company or association of persons, carrying onthe  income-earning  activity (vide s. 3 of the	 Income	 TaxAct-which has not been made applicable to the Excess ProfitsTax  Act  under	 s.  21	 of  the  latter  Act).	  Under	 theprovisions   of	 the  Excess  Profits  Tax  Act,   where   apartnership carrying on a business becomes disrupted and theExcess Profits earned by the business before its dissolutionhave  to be assessed the assessment has to be made under  s.44 of the Income tax Act as modified by the Central Board ofRevenue	 under the power vested in that behalf by s.  21  ofthe Act and as so modified s. 44 runs:" Where any business carried on by a firm or association  ofpersons	 has been discontinued, every person who was at	 thetime  of  such discontinuance a partner of such	 firm  or  amember of such association shall, in respect of the  profitsof the firm or association, be jointly and severally  liableto  assessment	under section 14 of the Excess	Profits	 TaxAct,  1940, and for the amount of tax payable, and  all	 theprovisions of the said Act shall, so far as may be, apply toany such assessment."796The  effect  of this and other cognate provisions  was	thusexplained by the learned Judges of the Madras High Court :"The  result  of s. 44 as amended by the  Central  Board  ofRevenue	 is  to	 attract  the  procedure  applicable  to  anundissolved firm to a dissolved firm, and, therefore, if twoor three persons carry on business as a firm, the assessmentcould be made on the partnership in the partnership name andthe  persons,  who  carried  on	 the  business	during	 thechargeable  accounting period will be liable to pay the	 taxas provided by sub-s. (2) of s. 14, read with s. 44, Income-tax Act, as modified by the Central Board of Revenue.As  s.	63,  Income-tax	 Act, is  also	made  applicable  toproceedings under the Excess Profits Tax Act, if, during thechargeable  accounting period, the firm carried on  businessas  an undissolved firm and even if it	became	subsequentlydissolved,  by	virtue	of  the provisions  of	s.  44,	 theassessment could be made as if it  were an undissolved firm.Under the provisions of s.    63,  Income-tax  Act,   noticeunder s. 13 may be issued     to and served on a partner  ofa firm.	 Section 63(2) says that" Any such notice or requisition may, in the case of a	firmor  a Hindu undivided family, be addressed to any member  ofthe  firm or to the manager or any adult male member of	 thefamily	and in the case if any other association of  personsbe addressed to the principal officer thereof"So  far as the assessment in the present case is  concerned,even  assuming	that  by the date notice  under	 s.  13	 wasissued,	 the firm became dissolved, the	 machinery  providedunder  the Act for the service of notice under s. 63 can  beavailed	 of  by	 serving notice	 on  the  partner.   Notice,therefore, to a partner is treated as notice to all."As observed by Chakravartti, C. J., in Bose v. Manindra	 LalGoswami (1):"  It will thus be seen that in the case of  excess  profitstax,  there  is no difference in the  method  of  assessmentprescribed  for the assessment of the profits of  a  runningbusiness and that prescribed for(1) (1957) 33 I.T.R. 435, 447.797the assessment of the past profits of a business carried  onby  a  firm,  since dissolved.	In the	case  of  a  runningbusiness  too, the assessment is to be made on the  persons,carrying  on  the  business, jointly.  In the  case  of	 thebusiness  of  a firm which has been dissolved, it is  to  bemade  on  the  partners jointly	 and  severally;  and  sincesection	 44 of the Act is made applicable to the  assessmentof  pre-dissolution profits of the business of	a  dissolvedfirm,	such  assessment  can  obviously  be  made  in	 thepartnership  name.   It	 was  obviously	 in  view  of  theseprovisions that the learned Judge in the Madras case  statedthat  even assuming that the firm had been dissolved by	 thedate of the issue of the notice under section 13, still, themachinery  provided  for by sections 13 and 14	of  the	 Actcould  be availed of and the partners would continue  to  bejointly and severally liable to assessment under section  14of  the	 Act  and  for	the  amount  of	 tax  payable  afterdetermination."In our opinion, the passages extracted correctly express thelegal position resulting from the relevant provisions of theExcess Profits Tax Act, 1940.  We, therefore, hold that	 thenotice	served	on  Thyagrajan Chettiar was  valid  and	 wasbinding	 on  the appellant and that there is  no  basis	 forchallenging the legality of the assessment to Excess ProfitsTax.Before leaving the question of the validity of this order ofassessment  dated March 31, 1951, a minor point was made  towhich it is necessary to advert.  The business income of themanaging  agency  of  Muthappa & Co.  was  computed  at	 Rs.1,02,219 for the 1st chargeable accounting period, viz., thecalender  year 1942, and at Rs. 6,387 for the broken  periodJanuary	 1,  1943, to March 4, 1943.  These  figurers  whichwere the same as those in the assessment for income-tax werebased on the remuneration to which the firm became  entitledon  its	 managing agency agreement, with  the  Saroja  MillsLtd., and with which amount the latter debited itself in itsaccounts.   The	 company  however  did	not  disburse	thisremuneration  in cash, but this would make no difference  tothe  tax-liability  of the firm, since the  firm's  accountswere102798made  on the mercantile basis.	The Mills raised  a  disputethat  the managing agents had not fulfilled certain  of	 theobligations undertaken by them in regard to the extension ofthe mills by increasing the spindle age, by reason of  whichdefault	 they claimed to have suffered a loss of income	 andfor. that reason carried    the amount	of their cross claimfor damages to a suspense account, instead of crediting	 theentire	amount of managing agency remuneration to the  firm.The sum of which immediate payment was thus withheld was Rs.89,137.	  At the time of the Income Tax assessment  for	 thecorresponding	period,	 Thyagrajan  Chettiar-who   as	 themanaging-partner   of	the  firm  participated	  in   theseproceedings, had urged the contention that as the Mills	 hadwithheld  remuneration to the extent of Rs. 89 thousand	 oddand had not credited that amount to the managing agents, thesum  could not be treated as the income of the firm for	 theassessment year.  This objection was overruled on the groundthat the Mills had never disputed that the entire amount  ofRs. one lakh odd was due by them to the firm and in fact hadclaimed to deduct that entire sum as part of their  businessexpenditure.  The sum of Rs. one lakh odd was due by them tothe  firm and in fact had claimed to deduct that entire	 sumas  part of their business expenditure.	 The sum of Rs.	 onelakh  odd was therefore held to have accrued to the firm  asits  income  and  that	this  remained	unaffected  by	 theexistence  of  the cross claim.	 The  contention  which	 wasrepelled by the Income Tax Officer was addressed to us as  aground	for disputing the inclusion of the Rs.	89  thousandodd  as	 the income of the firm in its	Excess	Profits	 Taxassessment.   We  see  no  substance  in  the  point  urged.Learned Counsel referred us to the decision of this Court inCommissioner  of  Income-tax,  Madras  v. K.  R.  M.  T.  T.Thiagaraja  Chetty & Co. (1) and to the observations  at  p.261.  We consider that the decision far from supporting	 theappellant is really against him.There are therefore no legal grounds for impugning(1) [1954] S.C.R. 258.			    799the validity of the order of assessment to Excess Pro.	fitsTax dated March 15, 195 1, and we consider that. the same isbinding	 on the business and on the owners of that  businessincluding the appellant.  As a result, Writ Petition 130  of1958 fails and has to be dismiss. ed.The point that next calls for consideration is the   subjectmatter	of Civil Appeal 107 of 1956 and this is whether	 theExcess Profits Tax assessed could be validly recovered	fromthe  appellant	by resort to the  machinery  for  collectionprovided by s. 46 of the Income Tax Act.The argument of learned Counsel for the appellant in  regardto this point ",as on the following lines:Sections 45 to 47 of the Income Tax Act, 1922, which providefor the recovery of Income-tax by coercive process, no doubtapply  for the recovery of Excess Profits Tax by  virtue  oftheir  inclusion in s. 21 of the Excess Profits Tax  Act  asprovisions  applicable to the latter Act, and by  reason  ofthe  assessment on the firm of Muthappa & Co. the  appellantbecame	liable to pay the Excess Profits Tax  assessed.	  Itwag  nevertheless urged that the coercive process for  reco-very  of his tax liability under s. 46(2) of the Income	 TaxAct  could  not	 be  invoked  against  the  appellant,	 thesubmission being rested on two propositions : (1) That	 theappellant was not an " assessee " but only a " person liableto  pay the tax " within s. 29 of the Income  Tax  Act-whichruns: "When any (tax, penalty or interest) is due in	 consequenceof  any order passed under or in pursuance of this Act,	 theIncome-tax  Officer shall serve upon the assessee  or  otherperson	liable	to  pay such (tax, penalty  or	interest)  anotice	of demand in the prescribed form specifying the	 sumso payable."It  was further urged that as in the present case there	 hadbeen  no notice of demand under s. 29 of the Income Tax	 Actspecifically addressed to and served on theappellant,	hecould not become an " assessee in  default neither would thetax  payable  by  him become an arrear " as  to	 permit	 theinvocation  of	the  coercive process  under  s.  46(2)	 forrecovery. (2)800That  the  procedure for recovery enacted in ss.  45  to  47including  s. 46(2) were confined in their application to  "assessees  " and " assessees in default " and did not  applyto  the class of " other persons liable to pay the tax "  asagainst	 whom the filing of a suit for the recovery  of	 thetax and the execution of decrees in such  Suits was the onlymachinery  through  which the tax liability  of	 this  classcould be enforced.  For the purposes of this case we do	 notconsider  it  necessary	 to  deal  with	 the  larger  secondquestion  as  to whether the expression " assessee "  and  "assessee in default " in ss. 45 & 46 of the Income Tax	Act,1922,  should  be held to be confined to "  assessees  "  asdistinguished from " other persons liable to pay such tax  "as  these expressions occur in s. 29 of the Act, or  whetherthe  expression " assessee " when it occurs in ss. 45 to  47should	be understood as defined in s. 2(2) as	including  "every person by whom income-tax............... is payable ",since  we are clearly of the Opinion that the appellant	 wasan  " assessee ". Section 21 of the Excess Profits  Tax	 Actcarries a proviso which reads :   "Provided  that references in the said provisions to	 theassessee shall be construed references to a person to  whosebusiness this Act applies ".In  view of this provision the appellant as the	 partner  ofthe " business " to which " this Act applies " would be " anassessee "and not merely an" other person liable to pay	 thetax".	He  would also be an "assessee in default"  and	 theamount	due from him would be an arrear since the notice  ofdemand	under s. 29 of the Income Tax Act was served on	 themanaging partner-Thyagrajan Chettiar, and such service wouldbe tantamount to a notice served on the appellant himself byreason	of s. 63 of the Income Tax Act.	 Indeed	 the  entirebasis  on which the assessment proceedings  completed  afternotice	to  Thyagrajan Chettiar as the	managing-partner  ofMuthappa  &  Co. have been held by us to be binding  on	 theappellant  would preclude any argument of the type  advancedto  challenge the binding character of the  notices  served.The appellant was clearly an " assessee in default " within 801 s.46(1)  of  the Income-tax Act and the amount	 of  tax  and penalty due from him would be " an arrear within s. 46(2). We  therefore hold that the proceedings for the recovery  of the Excess Profits Tax could properly be taken and that  the order of the High Court dismissing the appellant's  petition for the issue of a writ of prohibition was correct. The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	The  petition is also dismissed but as these two have been heard  together there will be no order as to costs in the petition. Both the Appeal and the Petition dismissed.