PETITIONER:MAHANT RAM SAROOP DASJI	Vs.RESPONDENT:S.   P.	  SAHI,	 SPECIAL  OFFICER-IN-CHARGE  OF	 THE   HINDUDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/04/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  942		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 503 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC 951	 (4) R	    1959 SC1002	 (6) F	    1959 SC1073	 (9,14) R	    1960 SC 554	 (8,9) E	    1980 SC 161	 (12) RF	    1991 SC 672	 (33)ACT:Hindu Religious Trusts Private Trusts-Applicability of BiharHindu Religious Trusts Act-Religious Endowments, public	 andprivate-Distinction between-Definition of " religious trust"-scope	and  Effect-Bihar Hindu Religious Trusts  Act,	1950(Bihar 1 of 1951), SS. 2(1), 4(5), 30(1), 32, 48.HEADNOTE:The  appellant as the Mahant of the Salouna asthal  made  anapplication  in	 the  High  Court  under  Art.	226  of	 theConstitution  praying  inter alia for the issue	 of  a	writquashing  the  order of the Bihar State Board  of  ReligiousTrusts requiring the appellant to submit a return of  incomeand  expenditure  under s. 59 Of the Bihar  Hindu  ReligiousTrusts	Act,  1950,  on the grounds, inter  alia,  that	 theSalouna	 as  that  was	a  private  institution	 and  not  areligious  trust within the meaning of the Act and that	 theAct  did not apply to private trusts.  The High	 Court	tookthe  view  that the language of s. 2(1) of  the	 Act,  whichdefined	 a  " religious trust ", was wide  enough  to  coverwithin	its ambit both private and public trusts  recognisedby Hindu law and that the Salouna asthal did not come withinany of the two exceptions recognised by the section.Held,  that on a true and proper construction of the  provi-sions  of the Act, considered in the background of  previouslegislative history with regard to religious, charitable  orpious  trusts in India, the definition clause in s. 2(1)  ofthe Act does not include within its ambit private trusts andthat the provisions of the Act do not apply to such trusts.The  essential	distinction in Hindu law  between  religiousendowments  which are public and those which are private  isthat in a public trust the beneficial interest is vested  inan  uncertain  and fluctuating body of persons,	 either	 thepublic at large or some considerable portion of it answeringa   particular	description  ;	in  a  private	 trust	 thebeneficiaries  are definite and ascertained  individuals  orwho  within a time can be definitely ascertained.  The	factthat  the  uncertain and fluctuating body of  persons  is  asection	 of  the public following  as  particular  religiousfaith  or is only a sect of persons of a  certain  religiouspersuasion  would not make any difference in the matter	 andwould not make the trust a 'private trust.584JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 343 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 13, 1954,of  the	 Patna High Court in Misc.  Judl.  Case	 No.  39  of1954.L.   K.	 Jha,  B.  K. P. Sinha and R.  C.  Prasad,  for	 theappellant.Mahabir	 Prasad,  Advocate-General for the State  of  Bihar,Ishwari Nandan Prasad and S. P. Varma, for the respondents.1959.	April 1,5.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K. DAS, J.-This appeal on a certificate granted by	 theHigh  Court  of Patna is from a judgment of  the  said	HighCourt  dated  September	 13,  1954,  in	 a  writ  proceedingnumbered  as Miscellaneous Judicial Case No. 39 of  1954  inthat  court,  which  the  appellant  had  instituted  on  anapplication  made under Art. 226 of the Constitution in	 thecircumstances stated below.It was alleged that one Mahatma Mast Ram" Hindu saint, ownedand  possessed	considerable properties in the	district  ofMonghyr in the State of Bihar.	About two hundred years ago,he  built a small temple at Salouna in which he installed  adeity called Sri Thakur Lakshmi Narainji.  This temple	cameto  be	known as the Salouna asthal.  Mast Ramji  died	nearabout  the year 1802.  He was succeeded in turn by  some  ofhis  disciples,	 one of whom was Mahant Lakshmi	 Dasji.	  Hebuilt  a new temple in 1916 into which he removed the  deityfrom  the old temple and installed two new deities, Sri	 Ramand Sita. in 1919 Mahant Lakshmi Dasji died.  He left  threedisciples,  Vishnu  Das, Bhagwat Das and Rameshwar  Das.   Adispute arose among these disciples about succession to	 thegaddi, which was settled sometime in February 1919.  By thatsettlement  it	was arranged that Vishnu Das  would  succeedMahant Lakshmi Das as the shebait and would be succeeded  byBhagwat	 Das,  and thereafter the ablest "bairagi "  of	 theasthal,	 born  of  Brahmin parents, would  be  eligible	 forappointment as585shebait.   Bhagwat  Das died sometime in 1935  and  again  adispute arose between one Rameshwar Das, the youngest  chelaof Mahant Lakshmi Das, and Ram Saroop Das who is the presentMahant and appellant before us.	 Rameshwar Das, it  appears,filed  an  application under the  Charitable  and  ReligiousTrusts	Act  (XIV of 1920) for a direction upon	 Mahant	 RamSaroop	Das  to	 render an account of the  usufruct  of	 theasthal.	 This application was contested by Mahant Ram SaroopDas,  who  said	 that the  properties  appertaining  to	 theSalouna asthal did not constitute a public trust within	 themeaning	 of the provisions of the Charitable  and  ReligiousTrusts	 Act  (XIV  of	1920)  and  therefore  he  was	 notaccountable  to	 any  person.  Mahant Ram  Saroop  Das	alsoapplied	 for  and  obtained permission under  s.  5  of	 theaforesaid Act to institute a suit for a declaration that theSalouna asthal and the properties thereof did not constitutea public trust.	 Such a suit was brought in the court of theSubordinate  Judge  of Monghyr who, however,  dismissed	 thesuit.  Then, there was an appeal to the High Court of  Patnaand by the judgment and decree passed in First Appeal No. 10of  1941  dated	 March	5,  1943,  the	High  Court  gave  adeclaration  to the effect that the Salouna asthal  and	 theproperties appertaining thereto did not constitute a  publictrust within the meaning of the provisions of the Charitableand  Religious Trusts Act, (XIV of 1920).  Some eight  yearslater, the Bihar Hindu Religious Trust Act, 1950 (Bihar I of1951), hereinafter referred to as the Act, was passed by theBihar  Legislature  and received the President's  assent  onFebruary  21, 1951.  It came into force on August 15,  1951.The  Bihar  State  Board of Religious  Trusts  (one  of	 therespondents  before  us) was constituted under this  Act  todischarge  in  regard to religious trusts  other  than	Jainreligious  trusts  the functions assigned to  it  under	 theseveral	 provisions of the Act.	 On November 14, 1952,	thisBoard, in exercise of the powers conferred on it under s. 59of  the Act, asked the appellant to furnish to the  Board  areturn of the income and expenditure of the asthol.74586The  appellant replied by a letter dated December  1,  1952,that  the Salouna asthal was a private institution to  whichthe  Act did not apply, and also drew the attention  of	 theBoard to the judgment and decree of the High Court in  FirstAppeal No. 10 of 1941.	The Board, however, gave a reply  tothe effect that it was not bound by the declaration made  bythe  High  Court  and  asked  the  appellant  to  obtain   adeclaration in respect of his claim under the provisions  ofthe  Act or to submit a return.	 Thereafter' on January	 22,1954,  the appellant made his application under Art. 226  ofthe  Constitution in which he averred (a) that	the  Salounaasthal	was not a religious trust within the meaning of	 theAct;  (b) that the properties appertaining thereto  did	 notconstitute  a  religious trust and the appellant was  not  atrustee within the meaning of the Act; (e) that the Act	 didnot apply to private trusts; and (d) that the demand made bythe  respondent Board amounted to an interference  with	 theappellant's fundamental right to hold the asthal properties.The  appellant	accordingly prayed for the issue of  a	writquashing  the  order of the respondent Board  requiring	 theappellant  to submit a return of income and expenditure	 andalso  for  an order directing the respondent Board  and	 itsofficers  to refrain from interfering with the appellant  inhis  right  of	management of the  Salouna  asthal  and	 theproperties appertaining thereto.The  High Court of Patna by its judgment complained  againstdismissed the petition on the main ground that the  languageof  s. 2(1) of the Act, which defined a I  religious  trust'for the purposes of the Act, was wide enough to cover withinits ambit both private and public trusts recognised by Hindulaw  to	 be  religious, pious or  charitable  and  that	 theSalouna asthal did not come within any of the two exceptionsrecognised  by the section, namely, (1) a trust created	 ac-cording	 to Sikh religion or purely for the benefit  of	 theSikh community; and (2) a private endowment created for	 theworship	 of  a	family	idol in which  the  public  are	 notinterested.  The High Court also held that the materials  onthe record were not sufficient to decide587the  question whether the Salouna asthal and the  propertiesthereof constituted a religious trust of a public character;but  proceeding	 on  the footing that  the  Act	 applied  toprivate trusts, it expressed the view that the	restrictionsimposed on the trustee by the several provisions of the	 Actwere not violative of the fundamental right guaranteed underArt. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution, inasmuch as there was  nolegal reason why the State should not exercise	superintend-ence  and control over the administration of private  trustsas  in	the  case of public trusts.   In  a  judgment  datedOctober	 5,  1953, dealing with the same  question  in	someearlier	 cases,	 the High Court had,  however,	expressed  asomewhat  different  view.   It had  then  referred  to	 theprinciple  that when a legislature with limited power  makesuse  of a word of wide and general import,  the	 presumptionmust be that it is using the word with reference to what  itis  competent to legislate, and adopting that  principle  itsaid that s. 2(1) of the Act should be read in a  restrictedsense  so as to include only Hindu religious  or  charitabletrusts	of a public character and the provisions of the	 Actwould accordingly apply to such trusts only.The  principal	point  urged  before us	 on  behalf  of	 theappellant  is one of construction-do the provisions  of	 theAct  apply to private religious trusts?	 The  contention  ofthe appellant is that they do not.  It is necessary to referat this stage to some of the relevant provisions of the Act.In  connected Civil Appeals Nos. 225, 226, 228, 229 and	 248of 1955 (1) in which also we are delivering judgment  today,we  have referred to the provisions of the Act	in  somewhatgreater	 detail.   In  this appeal we shall  refer  to	suchprovisions only as have a bearing on the principal point.We start with the definition clause in s. 2 (1).  It says-"  religious trust' means any express 6r constructive  trustcreated or existing for any purpose recognised by Hindu	 Lawto be religious, pious or charitable, but shall not  includea trust created according to the Sikh religion or purely forthe benefit of the Sikh(1)  Mahant Moti Das v. S.P. Sahi, see P. 563 ante.588community and a private endowment created for the worship ofa family idol in which the public are not interestedThe  expression	 'trust	 property ' in a. 2  (p)  means	 theproperty   appertaining	 to  a	religious  trust   and	 theexpression 'trustee' in s. 2 (n) is defined in the followingterms-"  I  trustee'	means any person,  by  whatever	 designationknown,	appointed  to administer a  religious  trust  eitherverbally  or  by  or  under any deed  or  instrument  or  inaccordance  with the usage of such trust or by the  DistrictJudge  or  any other competent authority, and  includes	 anyperson	appointed  by a trustee to perform the duties  of  atrustee	 and any member of a Committee or any  other  personfor the time being managing or administering any trust	pro-perty as such; ".The  next  important  section for our purpose  is  s.  4  asamended	 by  Bihar Act, XVI of 1954, which gives  effect  tocertain amendments and repeals.	 Sub-section (5) of s. 4  isin these terms-"The  Religious	 Endowments  Act, 1863	(XX  of	 1863),	 andsection 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (V of 1908),shall  not  apply to any religious trust in this  State,  asdefined in this Act."Chapter	 V  of the Act contains a series of  sections  whichdelimit	 the  powers  and  duties  of  the  State  Board  ofReligious  Trusts.  Section 28, the opening section  of	 thechapter, states the general powers and duties of the  Board.Section 29(1) has a bearing on the question at issue  beforeus.   It states inter alia that where the supervision  of  areligious  trust is vested in any committee  or	 associationappointed  by  the  founder  or	 by  a	competent  court  orauthority,  such committee or association shall continue  tofunction  under the general superintendence and	 control  ofthe Board unless superseded by the Board under sub-S. (2) ofthe  section.  If an order of supersensible is	passed,	 thecommittee  or association or any other person interested  inthe  religious trust may within 30 days of the order of	 theBoard  under sub-s. (2) make an application to the  DistrictJudge for varying, modifying or setting aside589the  order  of supersession.  Section 30, so far  as  it  isrelevant for our purpose, states-"  When any object of a religious trust has ceased to  existor  has, in the opinion of the Board, become  impossible  ofachievement,  the  Board may, of its own motion	 or  on	 theapplication  of	 any  Hindu, after  issuing  notice  in	 theprescribed manner, to the trustee of such trust and to	suchother  person  as may appear to the Board to  be  interestedtherein	 and  after making such inquiry as  it	thinks	fit,determine  the object (which sfiall be similar or as  nearlysimilar	 as  practicable to the object which has  ceased  toexist  or  become impossible of achievement)  to  which	 thefunds,	property or income of the trust or so much  of	suchfund,  property or income as was previously expended  on  orapplied	 to the object which has ceased to exist  or  becomeimpossible  of	achievement, shall be a plied."	 Section  32defines the power of the Board to settle schemes for  properadministration of religious trusts.  It states:" 32(1).  The Board may, of its own motion or on applicationmade to it in this behalf by two or more persons  interestedin any trust,-(a)  settle  a scheme for such religious trust after  makingsuch  inquiry  as  it thinks fit and giving  notice  to	 thetrustee of such trust and to such other person as may appearto the Board to be interested therein; (b)  in  like manner and subject to  the  like	 conditions,modify	any scheme settled under this section or  under	 anyother law or substitute another scheme in its stead:Provided that any scheme so settled, modified or substitutedshall be in accordance with the law governing the trust	 andshall not be contrary to the wishes of the founder so far assuch  wishes  can  be ascertained.  (2)	 A  scheme  settled,modified or substituted instead of another scheme under thissection	 shall,	 unless otherwise ordered  by  the  DistrictJudge on an application, if any, made under sub-section	 (3)come  into  force on a day to be appointed by the  Board  inthis behalf and shall be published in the official gazette.590(3)  The trustee of, or any other person interested in, suchtrust,	may  within  three  months  from  the  date  of	 thepublication  in	 the  official	gazette	 of  the  scheme  sosettled, modified or substituted instead of another  scheme,as  the	 case may be, make an application  to  the  DistrictJudge  for varying, modifying or setting aside	the  scheme;but, subject to the result of such application, the order ofthe Board under sub-sections (1) and (2) shall be final	 andbinding	 upon  the trustee of the religious trust  and	uponevery other person interested in such religious trust.(4)  An	  order	 passed	 by  the  District  Judge   on	 anyapplication  made under sub-section (3) shall be final."  Itmay  be here stated that the expression " person  interestedin religious trust " is defined in s. 2(g).  The  definitionis in these terms-"  "  person  interested in a religious trust  "  means	 anyperson	who  is entitled to receive any pecuniary  or  otherbenefit	 from a religious trust and includes,(1) any person who has a right to worship or to perform	 anyrite,  or  to attend at the performance of  any	 worship  orrite, in any religious institution connected with such trustor   to	  participate  in  any	 religious   or	  charitableministration under such trust;(ii) the founder and any descendant of the founder;    and(iii)	  the trustee;".The only other section which need be quoted in full is s.   48of the Act which is in these terms:-"  48(1).  The Board, or with the previous sanction  of	 theBoard,	any person interested in a religious trust may	makean application to the District Judge for an order-(a)  removing  the trustee of such religious trust, if	suchtrustee-(1)  acts  in  a manner prejudicial to the interest  of	 thesaid trust; or(ii) defaults  on three or more occasions in the payment  ofany amount payable under any law for the time-being in forcein  respect of the property or income of the said  trust  orany other statutory charge on such property or income; or591(iii)	  defaults on three or more occasions in the paymentof any sum payable to any beneficiary under the said  trust,or in discharging any other duty imposed upon him under	 it;or(iv)   is guilty of a breach of trust.(b)  appointing a new trustee;(e)  vesting any property in a trustee;(d)  directing accounts and inquiries; or(e)  granting such further or other relief as the nature  ofthe case may require.(2)  The order of the District Judge under sub-. section (1)shall be final ".Now,  the argument on behalf of the appellant is that  on  atrue and proper construction of the aforesaid provisions  ofthe   Act,   considered	 in  the  background   of   previouslegislative history with regard to religious, charitable  orpious trusts in India, the definition clause in s. 2 (1)  ofthe Act is confined to religious, pious or charitable trustsof  a  public nature recognised as such by  Hindu  law.	  Inorder  to appreciate this argument it is necessary to  statefirst  the  distinction	 in  Hindu  law	 between   religiousendowments which are public and those which are private.  Toput  it	 briefly,  the essential distinction is	 that  in  apublic	trust  the  beneficial	interest  is  vested  in  anuncertain and fluctuating body of persons, either the publicat  large  or some considerable portion of  it	answering  aparticular description; in a private trust the beneficiariesare  definite  and ascertained individuals or who  within  adefinite time can be definitely ascertained.  The fact	thatthe  uncertain and fluctuating body of persons is a  sectionof  the public following a particular religious faith or  isonly  a	 sect of persons of a certain  religious  persuasionwould  not make any difference in the matter and  would	 notmake the trust a private trust (see the observations in NabiShirazi v. Province of Bengal) (1).  The distinction in thisrespect	 between  English law and Hindu law  has  been	thusstated	by Dr. Mukherjea in his Tagore Law Lectures  on	 theHindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trusts (1952  Edition,pp.  392-396):	,,In  English  law  charitable	trusts	 aresynonymous(1)  (1942) I.L.R. I cal. 211, 228.592with  public  trusts and what is called religious  trust  isonly  a	 form of charitable trust.  The beneficiaries  in  acharitable  trust being the general public or a	 section  ofthe  same  and not a determinate body  of  individuals,	 theremedies  for enforcement of charitable trust  are  somewhatdifferent   from   those  which	 can  be   availed   of	  bybeneficiaries in a private trust.  In English law the  Crownas  parens  patriae is the constitutional protector  of	 allproperty  subject  to charitable trusts, such  trusts  beingessentially   matters	of   public   concern........	 Onefundamental distinction between English and Indian law	liesin  the fact that there can be religious trust of a  privatecharacter  under Hindu law which is not possible in  Englishlaw ".On  behalf of the appellant it has been pointed out that  sofar as public religious and charitable trusts are concerned,there  are a number of legislative enactments, both  generaland  local,  which  aim at controlling	the  management	 andadministration	of such trusts and provide for	remedies  incases  of  maladministration, So far  as  private  religioustrusts	are  concerned,	 there	are  no	 specific  statutoryenactments and such trusts are regulated by the general	 lawof  the	 land.	The British Government, when  it  was  firstestablished in India, following the tradition of the  formerrulers,	 asserted by virtue of its sovereign  authority	 theright  to visit public religious and  charitable  endowmentsand  to prevent and redress abuses in their  management.   ARegulation  for	 that purpose was passed in Bengal  in	1810(Regulation  XIX  of  1810)  and  one  for  Madras  in	1817(Regulation  VII  of  1817).  In Bombay	 also  there  was  aRegulation (XVII of 1827) which related to endowments of thesame character.	 In 1863 was passed the Religious EndowmentsAct  (XX  of  1863), which repealed the	 Bengal	 and  MadrasRegulations  in so far as they related to  purely  religiousinstitutions  and  their control was  transferred  from	 theBoard  of  Revenue  to-non-official  committees	 constitutedunder the Act of 1863.	It is worthy of note, however,	thatthe Act of 1863 also applied to public religious  endowmentsonly.	In course of time it was found that the Act of	1863did not provide adequate protec.593tion  to public religious trust against abuses which led  totheir control by the State and the remedies provided by thatAct  did  not  go  far enough.	 Then  came  the  CharitableEndowments  Act, 1890 (VI of 1890), and the  Charitable	 andReligious  Trusts  Act, 1920 (XVI of 1920),  both  of  whichrelated to public trusts ; the former related exclusively topublic	trusts	for  charitable	 purposes  unconnected	withreligious  teaching or worship while the latter	 related  totrusts	created	 for  public purposes  of  a  charitable  orreligious  nature.   In the Civil Procedure Code of  1877  aspecific section was introduced, viz., s. 539, under which asuit  could be instituted in case of any alleged  breach  ofany  express  or  constructive	trust  created	for   publicreligious  or charitable purposes.  This section  was  lateramended,  and  in this amended form it became s. 92  of	 thepresent Civil Procedure Code, the first condition  necessaryto bring a case within its purview being the existence of  atrust,	whether express or constructive for public  purposesof  a  religious or charitable nature.	It is  clear  beyonddoubt  that a private trust is outside the operation  of  s.92,  Civil Procedure Code.  Of the local Acts, the  earliestwas that of the Bombay Presidency of the year 1863.  In morerecent	 years	were  passed  the  Orissa  Hindu   ReligiousEndowments  Act, 1939, the Bombay Public Trusts	 Act,  1950,and  the  Madras Hindu Religious and  Charitable  EndowmentsAct,   1951,  all  of  which  relate  to  public   religiousinstitutions and endowments.  No local Act has been  broughtto  our	 notice	 which clearly	or  unmistakenly  sought  toinclude within its ambit private religious trusts.On behalf of the appellant it has been submitted that thoughthe definition clause in s. 2 (1) of the Act is expressed inwide  language,	 other provisions of the Act make  it  clearthat it is confined to public trusts only.  Section 2 (1) ofthe  Act,  we have pointed out, recognises  two	 exceptions:first,	a  trust created according to the Sikh	religion  orpurely for the benefit of the Sikh community; and, second, aprivate endowment created for the worship of a family  idol,in which the public are not interested.	 It is not  disputed75594that the second exception is an instance of a private trust,in which the public are not interested.	 The High Court	 hastaken  the  view  that inasmuch	 as  the  definition  clausementions  by  way  of an exception only one  instance  of  aprivate endowment, all private endowments created  otherwisethan  for  the	worship of a family idol  must	be  includedwithin	the  definition	 Of the maxim  of  expression  uniusexclusio alterius.  We do not think that this view is  quitecorrect.  First of all, let us examine some other provisionsof the Act which specifically refer to the definition clauseand  see what the legislature has itself taken it  to  mean.Take, for example, s. 4 of the Act, as amended by Bihar Act,XVI  of	 1954.	 This section  amends  and  repeals  certainearlier	 Acts like the Charitable Endowments Act, 1890,	 andthe Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920, both of whichwe  have already pointed out related exclusively  to  publictrusts.	  Sub-s.  (5)  of s. 4	states	that  the  ReligiousEndowments  Act,  1863,	 and  s. 92 of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure,  1908, shall not apply to any religious trust  inthe State, as defined in this Act.  The Religious EndowmentsAct,  1863, and s. 92, Civil Procedure Code,-both  apply  topublic	trusts; they have no application to private  trusts.If the definition clause was intended to include within	 itsambit private trusts (other than those created for the	wor-ship  of a family idol), then it is difficult to  understandwhy sub-s. (5) of s. 4 should be worded as it has been done.That sub-section in effect says that two earlier  enactmentswhich apply exclusively to public trusts shall not apply  toany trust (we emphasise the word ' any ') as defined in	 theAct.   If  private  trusts created otherwise  than  for	 theworship of a family idol were included in the definition  ofreligious  trust,  then sub-s. (5) was	entirely  otiose  orredundant so far as those private trusts were concerned	 forthe  earlier enactments never applied to them.	The  obviousindication is that all trusts defined in the Act are  publictrusts	and, therefore, it became necessary to	exclude	 theoperation of earlier enactments which but for the  exclusionwould have applied to such trusts.  If the intention of sub-s. (5) of s. 4 was to exclude some, trusts595only out of many included within the definition clause	fromthe operation of the earlier enactments, as is contended forby  the learned Advocate-General of Bihar, then the  use  ofthe word 'any' appears to us to be particularly inapt.	Sub-section	 (5) of s. 4 was amended by Bihar Act XVI  of  1954.Before the amendment it read as follows:" S. 4(5).  The Religious Endowments Act, 1863, and  section92 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, shall not apply  toany Hindu Religious Trust in the State of Bihar."Prior to the amendment, sub-s. (5) made no reference to	 thedefinition  clause; it merely said that two of	the  earlierenactments  shall not apply to any Hindu Religious Trust  inthe  State  of	Bihar.	 The  amended  subsection,  however,specifically refers to the definition clause and states thattwo  of the earlier enactments, which apply only  to  publictrusts,	 shall	not apply to any trusts, as defined  in	 theAct.  In our opinion, by sub-s. (5) of s. 4 the	 Legislatureitself has spoken and indicated the true scope and effect ofthe definition clause.Secondly, it may be asked why the legislature having  beforeit  the	 earlier enactments which applied to  public  trustsonly,  failed  to  use the word 'public '  before  the	word'purpose'  in the definition clause ?  This is	a  pertinentquestion  which	 must be faced.	 The answer,  we  think,  isthis.	Charitable trusts are public trusts, both under	 theEnglish and Indian law; in England a religious trust being aform  of  charitable  trust is also public,  but  in  India,according  to  Hindu law, religious trust may be  public  orprivate.  But the most usual and commonest form of a privatereligious  trust is one created for the worship of a  familyidol in which the public are not interested.  Any other pri-vate  religious	 trust must be very rare  and  difficult  tothink  of.' Dealing with the distinction between public	 andprivate endowments in Hindu law, Sir Dinshah Mulla has	saidat p. 529 of his Principles of Hindu Law (11th edition)-"  Religious endowments are either public or private.  In  apublic endowment the dedication is for596the  use  or benefit of the public.  When  property  is	 setapart  for the worship of a family god in which	 the  publicare not interested, the endowment is a private one ".Obviously  enough, the definition clause merely	 quotes	 thetypical example of a private endowment mentioned above.	  Itis  also  significant  that the exclusion  of  an  endowmentcreated	 for  the worship of a family idol is based  on	 theadjectival  clause  which follows it, viz., " in  which	 thepublic	are not interested ". In other words, the  exclusionis  based on the essential distinction between a public	 andprivate trust in Hindu law.  If the test is that the  publicor any section thereof are not interested in the trust, sucha test is characteristic of all private trusts in Hindu law.It  also  shows that there may be a trust  created  for	 theworship	 of  a	family	idol in	 which	the  public  may  beinterested.   Those  are  cases of trust which	began  as  aprivate trust but which eventually came to be thrown open tothe  public.   This also indicates that the  definition	 wasintended to cover only public trusts.We  now	 turn to some of the other provisions  of  the	Act,which we have earlier quoted.  Section 29(1) which talks  ofsupervision  of	 a  religious  trust  being  vested  in	 anycommittee  or association appointed by the founder or  by  acompetent  court or authority is ordinarily  appropriate  inthe  case  of  a public trust  only.   Section	30(1)  whichembodies  the doctrine of cypress permits any Hindu to	makean  application	 for  invoking the power  of  the  Board  todetermine the object to which funds, property and income  ofa religious trust shall be applied where the original objectof the trust has ceased to exist or has become impossible ofachievement.  This section is also inappropriate in the caseof  a private trust, the obvious reason being that  any	 andevery Hindu cannot be interested in a private trust so as togive him a locus stand to make the application.	 Further, itis difficult to visualise that a Hindu private rebutter willfail, for a deity is immortal.	Even if the idol gets brokenor  is lost or stolen, another image may be consecrated	 andit  cannot  be said that the original object has  ceased  toexist.	Sec-597tion 32 is an important section of the Act and confers poweron the Board to settle schemes for proper administration  ofreligious trusts.  Now, the section says that the Board	 mayexercise the power of its own motion or on application	madeto  it in this behalf by two, or more persons interested  inany trust.  The language of the section follows closely	 thelanguage of s. 92,  Civil  Procedure  Code, so	far  as	 thephrase " two or	    more  persons interested in any trust  "is concerned. It    is	difficult to understand why  in	 thecase of a private trust, it should be necessary that two  ormore   persons	interested  in	the  trust  must  make	 theapplication  to	 settle	 a scheme for such a  trust.   In  aprivate	 or family rebutter the beneficiaries are a  limitedand defined class of persons, as for example, the members ofa   family.   If  the  trustee	or  shebait  is	 guilty	  ofmismanagement,	 waste,	 wrongful  alienation  of   debutterproperty or other neglect of duties, a suit can certainly beinstituted  for remedying these abuses of trust.  Under	 thegeneral law of the land the founder of the endowment, or anyof  his	 heirs is competent to institute a suit	 for  properadministration	of  the	 debutter, for removal	of  the	 oldtrustee	 and  for  appointment	of a new  one.	 It  is	 notnecessary in such a case that two or more persons interestedin the trust must join in order to institute the suit.	 Thecondition of " two or more persons " is appropriate only  toa  public trust, the reason being that a public trust  is  amatter	of  public concern.  Section 48 of the Act  is	alsoanalogous to s. 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure and one ofthe reasons for excluding the operation of s. 92 of the Codeof Civil Procedure from trusts as defined by the Act is	 theexistence of provisions in the Act which are analogous to s.92  of	the Code of Civil Procedure.  This section  is	alsomore  appropriate to public trusts than to  private  trusts.In  fact,  the	Act contains  provisions,  as  the  preamblestates,	 for  the better administration of  Hindu  religioustrusts	in  the State of Bihar and for	the  protection	 andpreservation  of properties appertaining to such trusts	 andfor  that  purpose  certain  earlier  enactments  like	 theReligious  Endowments Act, 1863, the  Charitable  EndowmentsAct, 1890,598the Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920 and the  CivilProcedure  Code, 1908, have either been amended or  excludedfrom  operation.  All those earlier enactments related	onlyto public trusts and if the intention was that the Act wouldapply  to  private  trusts as well, one	 would	expect	thatintention would be made clear by the use of unambiguous lan-guage.	We find, on the contrary, that though the definitionclause	in s. 2(1) is expressed in somewhat  wide  language,sub-s.	(5)  of	 s. 4 makes clear what the  true  scope	 andeffect of the definition clause is.For  the  reasons given above, we hold that  the  definitionclause does not include within its ambit private trusts	 andthe Act and its provisions do not apply to such trusts.Learned	 counsel  for the appellant has in  the	 alternativeargued before us that if the Act applies to private  trusts,several	  of  its  provisions  will  be	 violative  of	 thefundamental right guaranteed to citizens under Art. 19(1)(f)of  the	 Constitution inasmuch as the  restrictions  imposedthereby	 on trustees of private trusts, in which the  publicare  not  interested,  cannot  be  justified  as  reasonablerestrictions  in the interests of the general public  withinthe meaning of cl. (5) of Art. 19.  The High Court negativedthis  argument by adopting the rule of English law  that  inthe case of a charitable corporation where the founder is  aprivate person, he and his heirs become visitors in law	 andwhere  such heirs are extinct or incompetent,  their  powersdevolve	 on the Crown or the State; therefore, it is in	 theinterests  of  the  general public  that  the  State  shouldexercise superintendence and control over the administrationof  private  trusts as in the case of public  trusts.	Thisview  of the High Court has been seriously contested  beforeus, and learned counsel for the appellant has submitted thatthere  is  no  war. rant for the adoption  of  the  rule  ofEnglish	 law in view of the fundamental distinction  betweenEnglish	 and Hindu law as to private religious	trusts.	  Hehas  also drawn our attention to the following	observationsof  Dr.	 Mukherjea (Hindu Law of  Religious  and  CharitableTrust, 1952 Edition, p. 393) on this point:599,,In English law there is a ' visitatorial ' power  attachedto  all eleemosynary corporations.  A visitor has the  rightto  settle disputes between members of the  corporation,  toinspect and regulate their actions and generally to  correctall  abuses  and  irregularities in  the  administration  ofcharity.   The law allows to the founder of an	eleemosynaryinstitution full powers to make regulations for its creationand  such powers include the right of  nominating  visitors.Under  the  law	 of England as it stood before	1926,  if  aprivate person was the founder of a charitable	corporation,then  he  and his heirs became automatically  the  visitors.The descent of the rights of a visitor to heirs has now beenabolished by the Administration of Estates Act, 1925, and itis  not	 clear	as to who would be  visitor  in	 default  ofappointment by the founder.  Most probably such rights woulddevolve upon the Crown as they did when the founder's  heirsbecame	extinct	 or  could not be found or the	heir  was  alunatic."He  has further submitted that whatever be the	position  inEnglish	 law,  the  guarantee of a  fundamental	 right	mustdepend on the terms of Art. 19 of the Constitution and	suchguarantee  cannot be whittled down by  importing  artificialrules of English law.In  view of our finding on the question of  construction  ofthe  definition	 clause	 read  with  s.	 4  (5)	 and   otherprovisions  of	the  Act,  we  consider	 it  unnecessary  topronounce  finally  on the contentions referred	 to  in	 thepreceding  paragraph, except merely to state that a  seriousquestion   of	the  constitutional  validity	of   severalprovisions  of the Act would have undoubtedly arisen if	 theAct were held to apply to private trusts as well.On  our	 finding  that, the Act does not  apply	 to  privatetrusts, the appellant is entitled to succeed in his  appeal.The High Court has said that the materials on the record  ofthe  case are not sufficient to decide the question  whetherthe  Salouna  asthal  and  the	properties  of	the   mahantconstitute  a trust of a public character.   This  question,however,  was the subject of a contested litigation and	 theappellant had obtained a declaration in First Appeal No.  10of 1941 that the Salouna asthal600and the properties appertaining there to did not  constitutea  public trust.  The respondents were not parties  to	thatlitigation  and	 may not be bound by that judgment;  but  onbehalf	of the respondents no affidavit was filed  nor	wereany materials placed to show that the position is  differentfrom  what was declared by the High Court.  The	 High  Courtcommented  on  the fact that the appellant did	not  producebefore	the  court all the documents in his  possession.   Apetition has been filed before us for taking in evidence thedocuments  which were considered by the High Court in  FirstAppeal	No.  10	 of  1941.  We do  not	think  that  in	 thecircumstances of this case it is necessary to consider	thatevidence  afresh.   As long as the declaration made  by	 theHigh Court in First Appeal No. 10 of 1941 stands and in	 theabsence	 of some evidence to the contrary, the appellant  isentitled  to say that the Salouna asthal and the  propertiesappertaining  thereto do not 'Constitute a public trust	 andthe Act and its provisions do not apply to it.Our attention has been drawn to s. 43 of the Act as  amendedby Act XVII of 1956.  That section says inter alia that	 alldisputes as to whether any immovable property is or is not atrust  property	 shall be inquired into, either on  its	 ownmotion	or on an application, by the authority appointed  inthis  behalf by the State Government by notification in	 theofficial gazette.  Without. expressing any opinion as to theconstitutional validity of s. 43 of the Act we merely  pointout  that no decision has been given under s. 43 of the	 Act(as  it	 stood	prior or after the  amendment)	against	 theappellant   in	respect	 of  the  Salouna  asthal  and	 theproperties  appertaining thereto.  It would be open  to	 therespondents  to take such steps as may be available to	themin  law to get it determined by a competent  authority	thatthe trust in question is a public trust.We  would  accordingly	allow this  appeal,  set  aside	 thejudgment  and  order of the High Court dated  September	 13,1954,  and direct the issue of an appropriate writ  quashingthe order of the respondent Board calling upon the appellantto file a statement of income and expenditure with regard tothe properties of the Salouna601asthal and also prohibiting the respondents from interferingwith  the rights of the appellant in the management  of	 theSalouna	 asthal	 and the  properties  appertaining  thereto,unless and until the respondents have obtained the necessarydetermination  that  the Salouna asthal is a  public  trust.The appellant will be entitled to his costs throughout.Appeal allowed.