PETITIONER:J.K.CHAUDHURI	Vs.RESPONDENT:R. K. DATTA GUPTA & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/04/1958BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  722		  1959 SCR  455ACT:University  of	Gauhati, Powers of Principal   dismissed  byGoverning  Body	 of  College-If	 University  can  interfere-Gauhati University Act (Ass.  XVI of 1947), SS. 2, 9, 12 and21, Statutes of the University, cls. 1, 2 and 3.HEADNOTE:R  was	appointed  Professor of	 Mathematics  in  a  Collegeaffiliated   to	 the  Gauhati  University.   He	 was   laterappointed  Principal  of the College.  On  complaints  beingmade  against  R the Governing Body of the College  held  anenquiry and ordered his dismissal as Principal and Professorof  Mathematics.   R  made  representations  to	 the   Vice-Chancellor  of	the  Gauhati University	 and  the  ExecutiveCouncil of the University appointed a committee to report onthe  propriety of the action taken.  Upon the report of	 thecommittee that there was no reasonable ground justifying thedismissal  of R, the Executive Council passed  a  resolutiondirecting the Governing Body to reinstate R :Held, that the Executive Council acted without	jurisdictionin  so far as it interfered with the action taken against  Ras  the	 Principal of the College.  The	 Gauhati  UniversityAct,  1947, and the Statutes framed under s.  21(g)  thereofmade  a	 distinction  between a	 Principal  and	 a  teacher.Clause	3(g)(v)	 Of  the Statutes  empowered  the  ExecutiveCouncil	 to  interfere	only with the action  taken  by	 theGoverning  Body of an affiliated College against  a  teacherand not with action taken against a Principal.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.321 of 1957.456Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJune 13, 1956, of the Assam High Court in Civil Rule No.  80of 1955.Ranadeb Chaudhury and D. N. Mukherjee, for the appellant.N.   C.Chatterjee,  and Naunit Lal, for respondents  Nos.  2and 3.Naunit Lal, for respondent No. 1.1958.	April  7. The following Judgment of  the  Court	 wasdelivered byKAPUR J.-This is an appeal by special leave brought by J. K.Chaudhuri  for and on behalf of the Governing Body  of	GuruCharan	College, Silchar (which will be referred to in	thisjudgment as the College) against a judgment and order of theHigh  Court  of	 Judicature in Assam dated  June  13,  1956,dismissing  the	 appellant's petition under  Art.  226.	  Itraised	the  question  as to the nature and  extent  of	 thejurisdiction  of the Executive Council of the University  ofGauhati	 in  regard  to disciplinary  action  taken  by	 theGoverning  Body of the College against its Principal, R.  K.Datta Gupta, respondent No. 1.In  1937,  respondent  No.  I  was  appointed  Professor  ofMathematics in the college.  He was appointed Vice-Principalin   1947   and	  Principal  in	 1950.	  Due	to   certainrepresentations	  made	 to  the  Governing   Body   againstrespondent No. 1, a committee was appointed by the GoverningBody  to enquire into the allegations.	This committee	heldseveral	 sittings and made a report after considering  whichthe Governing Body held a prima facie case made out  againsthim,  placed  him under suspension and called  upon  him  toanswer the charges within 15 days.  This he failed to do butlater on submitted an explanation which was duly considered.As  fresh  material  was  disclosed  after  the	 suspension,respondent   No.1  was	called	upon  to  give	 a   furtherexplanation.   He  then requested for the  previous  chargesbeing  decided before enquiry into fresh charges  was  made.The  Governing Body held a meeting on November 1, 1953,	 andafter considering457the   matter  found  him  guilty  of  moral  turpitude	 anddishonesty  and also gross negligence of duty,	inefficiencyand  insubordination and ordered his dismissal as  Principaland Professor of Mathematics of the college. r,On  November 30, 1953, respondent No. I filed a	 suit  beingTitle  Suit No. 282 of 1953, in the Court of  Munsif  Sadar,Silchar, challenging the legality of the proceedings of	 thecommittee  appointed  by  the  Governing  Body	and  of	 theproceedings  and  decision  taken by it and  prayed  for  aninjunction  restraining the Governing Body  from  appointinganother	  Principal.   He  also	 applied  for  a   temporaryinjunction.   This suit was transferred to the Court of	 theSubordinate Judge U. A. D., at Silchar and was renumbered asTitle  Suit No. 10 of 1954 which has not yet  been  decided.On November 11, 1953, respondent No. I made a representationto the Vice-Chancellor of the Gauhati University against hisdismissal and prayed that the Governing Body be directed notto fill up the post of Principal pending the disposal of hisappeal which was filed on November 30, 1953, and which was areiteration of the allegations made by him in the plaint  inthe  suit  in  the Court of  Munsif  Sadar.   The  ExecutiveCouncil of the University, i. e., respondent No. 2 thereuponappointed  under para. 3(h) of the Statutes framed under  s.21(g)  of  the Gauhati University Act (Assam  XV1  of  1947)(hereinafter called the Act) a committee, respondent No.  3,consisting  of the Vice-Chancellor, the Director  of  PublicInstruction and the Legal Remembrance of the State of  Assamto  report  on	the propriety of the  action  taken.   Afterconsidering  the matter and giving full opportunity to	bothsides  respondent No. 3 on March 30, 1955, made a report  torespondent No. 2 that:" there was no reasonable ground justifying the dismissal ofShri R. K. Datta Gupta from the post of the Principal,	GuruCharan College Silchar."On April 20,1955, this report was accepted by respondent No.2 and it passed the following resolution :"..................  Resolved  that  the  findings  of	 theCommittee  be accepted and in view of the facts that Sri  R.K. Datta Gupta was not dismissed on any458reasonable  grounds,  the  Governing  Body  be	directed  toreinstate him before 31st July, 1955."Against this order the Governing Body of the college   fileda petition under Art. 226 in the High Court of Assam but thepetition was dismissed on June 13,1956.Although  in  the High Court the  appellant  challenged	 thepower  of the University to interfere with the	decision  ofthe Governing Body of the college removing respondent No.  Iboth   from   Principalship  and   from	  Professorship	  ofMathematics,  in this Court the arguments were	confined  tothe former only.  The two categories, it was submitted, weredistinct and were dealt with in the Act and the Statute madethereunder   separately.   The	Principal  was	merely	 theadministrative	head  of the 'College and a  teacher  solelyengaged	 in  imparting	instructions.	The  Act   thereforecontemplates  their  discharging  different  functions.	  Tosupport	 this contention, various provisions of the Act	 andthe Statutes made under the Act were referred to.  The words" Principal " and " Teacher"' are defined in s.	  2  of	 theAct :"  2  (h)  I Principal' means the head	of  a  College,	 andincludes  where	 there is no Principal, the person  for	 thetime  being duly appointed to act as Principal, and, in	 theabsence of the Principal, a Vice-Principalduly appointed as such. .......................................2(k)  'Teacher' includes Professors, Readers, Lecturers	 andother persons imparting instructions in the University or inany College or HallThe distinction finds further support from other  provisionsof  the	 Act which maintain a clear  distinction  between  aPrincipal  ' and a ' Teacher '. Section 9 of the  Act  dealswith  the constitution of the Court which has three  classesof  members:  Ex-Officio  members, Life	 Members  and  OtherMembers.  Principals fall under class I and are mentioned insub-s.	(vii).	 Teachers  come under the  heading  I  OtherMembers'   enumerated  in  class  111.	 In   sub-s.   (xiv)representation is given to 'Teachers' elected from their ownbody who are not Professors or Readers of the University.459Similarly  in  the  constitution of  the  Executive  Councilcontained  in  s. 12, a distinction  is	 maintained  betweenPrincipals who are in class 1, i. e., Ex-officio members andProfessors  of the University who are in,; class 11, i.	 e.,Other  members.	 Amongst the former have to be included	 twoPrincipals  of	recognised colleges elected from  their	 ownbody  and in Class 11 representation is given to  Professorsof  the	 University  and none to  the  teachers.   Thereforewherever  the  provisions  of the Act  mention	the  word  a'Principal'  or	 a  'Teacher'  two  distinct  entities	 areindicated and one is not to be included in the other.The  Statutes made under s. 21(g) of the Act  also  maintainthis distinction in their various clauses and where the word'principal'  occurs  it	 is  used  in  its  distinctive	 andrestrictive  sense  and	 where the word I  teacher'  or	 thephrase 'member of the teaching staff , or any other  similarword or phrase is used the reference is to a teacher and notto  a  principal.   Clause I of	 the  Statute  requires	 theexistence   of	a  Governing  Body  for	 each  college	 notmaintained  by	the  University.  Clause  2  (a)  gives	 itsconstitution  which  includes the Principal  and  the  Vice-Principal   as	 ex-officio   members  and   so	  also	 tworepresentatives of the teaching staff to be elected annuallyshowing	 that a Principal as such is distinct from a  memberof the teaching staff which must necessarily mean  employeesof  colleges  engaged in the teaching of  various  subjects.Clause 2 (c) nominates the Principal as the Secretary of theGoverning  Body.   Sub-cls. (a), (b), (c) and (d) of  el.  3deal  with  a  teacher's appointment, pay,  scales  of	pay,probation and period of appointment.  Sub-el. (e) deals withincrements. It provides:" An increment according to the pay scale will be drawn as amatter	of course..................... The increment may  bewithheld  on  the  ground  of  unsatisfactory  work  of	  anemployee..................... "The word 'employee' here must necessarily refer to a teacherbecause	 it provides for increments according to pay  scalesand the withholding of increments for unsatisfactory work ofan  employee dealt with in the first four sub-clauses  whichin terms apply to a teacher.460Sub-cl. (f) deals with the period of service.  Sub-cls (i)and (ii) are as follows:"  (i)	The services of a permanent employee  shall  not  bedetermined except on reasonable grounds.(ii)  The  services  of a permanent employee  shall  not  beterminated  in the course of an academic session  except  onvery  special  grounds,	 such  as  moral  turpitude,  provedincapacity and inefficiency.If  the Governing Body of a college considers  it  advisablethat  the  services  of	 a  permanent  employee	 should	  beterminated  on	any of the grounds mentioned in	 clause	 (g)(ii),  the  matter  shall  be  forthwith  reported  to	 theExecutive Council ".The use of the phrase 'academic session' indicates that	 the'Permanent  employee'  must  be	 a  person  connected	withteaching  for otherwise it lacks meaning.  The	language  ofsub-cl. (g) (iii) which is as follows:"A  teacher  whose services are dispensed  with	 on  groundsother than those mentioned in clause (g) (ii) shall be	paidcompensation  equal to as many months' pay as the number  ofcompleted  years  of his service, subject to  a	 maximum  oftwelve	months' pay " further supports	this  interpretationthat  a 'permanent employee' mentioned in sub- el. (g)	(ii)refers	to  a teacher and to no one else.  This	 is  furtherstrengthened by the use of the word 'teacher' in sub-cl. (g)(iv) which provides for the procedure for an enquiry where ateacher	 has to be dismissed, suspended or reduced  in	pay.Sub-cl.	 (g)  (v) reserves to the Executive Council  of	 theUniversity the power to enquire into causes of dismissal  ofa  teacher whether on its own motion or on an appeal by	 theteacher.  Sub-el. (h) which is in the following words:"All  cases of dismissal, suspension, or any  other  seriousgrievance  of  the teaching staff will be  considered  by  aCommittee of the following members uses the words " teachingstaff  "  and this again shows that the reference is  to theteacher	 and  not to a Principal because el. 3	taken  as  awhole  clearly	deals with the conditions of  service  of  ateacher, compensation to be paid to him and the procedure tobe followed461in  cases of disciplinary action taken against	him.   Thesewords  cannot  in- the context in which they appear  in	 theStatutes or in the context of the language of the Act itselfhave  reference	 to  anybody  other than  a  member  of	 theteaching staff, i. e., teacher.	 It shows therefore that  incl.  3	of  the	 Statute where	the  expression	 used  is  "permanent employee " or the "teacher" or " teaching staff  "the reference is to members of the college who are  teachersas  such and it hag no application to any other employee  ofthe college such as a Principal.Deka J. was of the opinion that as respondent No. I held twocapacities-that	 of  the  Principal and	 membership  of	 theteaching staff, respondent No. 2 could order his restorationto both the offices because the two capacities could not  beseparated.   As shown above the two capacities are  distinctwith separate functions and have been separately dealt	within  the Act and the Statutes under the Act and	the  learnedjudge was in error in holding otherwise.  Sarjoo Parshad  C.J.  gave  to the phrase I permanent employee'  used  in	 theStatutes an extended meaning so as to include a Principal aswell as a college teacher.  This again is an  interpretationwhich is contrary to the interpretation which stems from theanalysis  we  have given above and is  therefore  erroneous.Relying	 on  sub-el,  3(h)  of	the  Statutes  counsel	 forrespondent No. 2 contended that as respondent No. I was a soa  member  of  the  teaching  staff  being  a  Professor  ofMathematics his case fell within the wordsor any    otherserious grievance of the teaching staffThese	 wordsrefer to grievances which a memberof the    teaching  staffmay have in his capacity of ateacher  and not in any  othercapacity  and these words cannot be extended to include	 thegrievances  of a teacher in connection with something  whichis  dehors the words of the clause and would  not  thereforeinclude	 his grievances which he may have if he is also	 thePrincipal.As has been pointed out above the relevant provisions of theAct and of the Statutes made under59462s.21(g)	 of  the  Act show the separate	 capacities  of	 thePrincipal  and the Teacher.  The jurisdiction of  respondentNo.  2 to interfere with the action taken by  the  GoverningBody  arises  only in the case of a teacher  and  would	 notextend	to  a  case where the same person  holds  these	 twooffices,  as  there  is	 no provision in  the,	Act  or	 theStatutes  giving  the University such  power  to  interfere.Consequently so far as Respondent No. 2 interfered with	 theaction taken by the Governing Body against respondent No.  1in  his	 capacity as the Principal of the college  it  actedwithout jurisdiction and therefore that part of the order ofrespondent No. 2 and the judgment of the High Court to	thatextent	cannot	be  sustained  and  must  be  set  aside  asrespondent No. 2 there acted in excess of jurisdiction.We would, therefore, allow this appeal, modify the order  ofthe  High Court and hold that the order of respondent No.  2in  regard to respondent No. I qua his office  as  Principalwas  without jurisdiction and the order of reinstatement  ofrespondent No. 1 by the University to the post of  Principalmust  be  set  aside.  As the  special	leave  was  directedagainst the judgment of the High Court both in regard to theoffice of Principal and the office of teacher of the collegeand  it	 was  at the stage of arguments that  the  case	 wasconfined  to  the ' Principal' of the  college,	 the  properorder for costs should be that the parties do bear their owncosts in this Court as well as in the High Court.	       Appeal allowed.		     463