PETITIONER:BHAGWAN DAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF RAJASTHANDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/04/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.CITATION: 1957 AIR  589		  1957 SCR  854ACT: Appeal	   against    acquittal-When	High	Court	 mayinterfere--Dying	declaration--Value	   of-Expertevidence--Discrediting	   by	  reference	to	textbooks-Practice--Appreciation  of evidence--Inter-ference  bySupreme Court.HEADNOTE: The  High  Court should not set aside an  acquittal  unlessthere are "substantial and compelling" reasons for doing so.  Surajpal Singh v. State, (1952) S.C.R. 193, Ajmer Singh v.The  State of Punjab, (1953) S.C.R. 418, Aher Raja Khima  v.The State of Saurashtra, (1955) 2 S.C.R. 1285, followed.It is not a satisfactory way of disposing of the evidence ofan expert witness to discredit it by reference to text booksunless	the  passages  which are  sought  to  discredit	 hisopinion are put to him.Sunderlal v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, A.I.R. (1954) S.C.28, followed.Although the Supreme Court will not interfere with the find-ings  of  the  High Court because  its	conclusions  on	 theevidence as to the guilt or innocence of the accused  differfrom that of the High Court, yet where the evidence is	suchthat  no tribunal could legitimately infer from it that	 theaccused	 is  guilty the Supreme Court would  set  aside	 theconviction.Stephen	 Seneviratne  v. The King, A.I.R. (1936)  P.C.	289,relied on.JUDGMENT:   CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION:Criminal Appeal No. 50 of1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 27, 1956, of the Rajasthan High Court at Jodhpur  inCriminal Appeal No. 119 of 1954 arising out of the  judgmentand order dated March 23, 1954, of the Court of the SessionsJudge  at  Ganganagar in Original Criminal Case	 No.  74  of1953.Mohan Behari Lal, for the appellant.Kan Singh and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1957 April 2. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR  J.-Bhagwandas and Netram are two brothers  who  alongwith Mt.  Rameshwari, a daughter855of  the	 former,  were	tried  by  the	Sessions  Judge	  ofGanganagar  for an offence under s. 302 of the Indian  PenalCode  but  were acquitted.  On appeal to the High  Court  ofRajasthan,  the order of acquittal of Bhagwandas and  Netramwas  reversed and they were convicted under s.302 read	withs.  34 and sentenced to transportation for life.  The  orderas  to Mt.  Rameshwari was affirmed and she  was  acquitted.The convicted persons have obtained Special Leave to  appealunder Art. 136 of the Constitution.he appeal is founded on two grounds:(1)  that  there  was  no evidence  against  the  appellantssufficient  to warrant a conviction and (2) that there	wereno  compelling	reasons	 for reversal  of  the	judgment  ofacquittal. According  to the prosecution the canal after a  temporary'closure	 restarted flowing on May 5, 1953.  And although  itwas  not his turn of water the deceased Shivlal was  allowedto  take  the water to irrigate his fields.  On	 May  6	 thecanal  was flowing to its full capacity and Shivlal  was  totake his turn of water which was of 6 hours duration from  8a.m. to 2 p.m. but he watered his lands from 8 a.m. to 10-30a.m. because the village diggi (pond) which was empty had tobe  filled up.	Mirab Ram Karan P. W. 1 with the consent  ofShivlal diverted the water for the purpose of filling up thediggi,	promising him (Shivlal) to. get him the rest of	 histurn  of  water, i.e., for 3-1/2 hours after the  diggi	 hadbeen  filled up.  The diggi was filled up by 1 p.m.  on	 the7th.  Shivlal then wanted to divert the water into his fieldbut Bhagwandas prevented him from doing so claiming the turnto be his.  According to Ram Karan Mirab P. W. I the turn ofBhagwandas  was after Surta whose turn was next to  that  ofShivlal.As  Shivlal was prevented from taking his turn of  water  hestarted walking towards the village saying that he would  goand speak to Mirab.  Bhagwandas thereupon shouted that " theenemy was going " and hit Shivlal on the head with a kassi.Netram	then hit Shivlal with lathi as a result of which  hefell down and then both beat Shivlal, and856Mt. Rameshwari also, it was alleged, joined in this  beatingwith  a	 wooden	 handle of a  kassi.   This  occurrence	 waswitnessed  by Hazari P. W. 3 who was grazing his  camels  inthe  field  of	Surta.	He went up to the  place  where	 thebeating	 was  going on and shouted to the assailants  who  "went  away  "  leaving their  kassi  behind.   Hazari  foundShivlal	 seriously  injured and unconscious.   He  sprinkledsome water on his face which revived Shivlal and the  latterasked Hazari to take him to the Thana but Hazari helped	 himto walk up to the Khala (threshing floor) of Hukma which wasat  a  short distance from that place.	Hazari P. W.  3	 hasstated	that  he  left Shivlal with  Jora,  Jagmal,  Bhogar,Begaram and Binja, and on their asking him he (Hazari)	toldthem   what  he	 had  seen.   Shivlal  was  then  taken	  toRaisinghnagar  by  Bhaggu and Jagmal on a she-camel  to	 theshop of Gyani ham P. W. 4. There Shivlal told Gyani Ram alsothat  Bhagwandas,  Netram and Rameshwari had  assaulted	 himbecause	 of the water' dispute and also asked Gyani  Ram  tosend for his son Ram Pratap and his Artya (Commission Agent)Ishardas.  Ram Pratap came at about 6 p. m. Shivlal repeatedthe  story  to	him and was then taken to  the	hospital  byJagmal,	 Bhaggu and others.  At the hospital he was  treatedby the doctor P. W. I I but died the following day (8th)  at8-15 a. m.  The First Information Report was based on a written reportEx.  P-1 by Ram Pratap s/o Shivlal.  It was recorded on	 May7  at about 7-30 p. m. The prosecution supported their	caseby  the	 evidence of two eye witnesses,	 dying	declarationsmade  to 3 persons and on the recovery of the  kassi.	Theyproduced two eye witnesses Begaram P. W. 2 and Hazari P.  W.3.  The dying declarations were made to three persons  firstto  Jora P. W. 7, later to Gyaniram P. W. 4 at his shop	 andlastly to Ram Pratap P. W. 5 who arrived at the shop at 6 p.m. If the dying declaration was made to this witness it musthave been at that time. According to the doctor's evidence Shivlal was	 unconsciouswhen  he  was brought to the hospital at 5 p. m, He  had  15injuries on his body, out of which857injury No. 1 was with a sharp-edged weapon and injury No.  2with  a blunt weapon and both these injuries  were  grievousand were " individually and collectively fatal sufficient tocause death."The  learned Sessions Judge disbelieved the  whole  evidenceand  acquitted the accused.  He was of the opinion that	 theevidence  produced  by the prosecution was not "  free	fromsuspicion  and not sufficient to convict them ". Begaram  P.W. 2 was disbelieved both by the Sessions Judge and the HighCourt.	 The learned Sessions Judge described Hazari as a  "facile	fluent liar " but his testimony was accepted by	 theHigh  Court.   Both  courts rejected the  statement  of	 RamPratap but the statements of Gyaniram and Jora were acceptedby  the	 High  Court  although they  were  rejected  by	 theSessions Judge.The  High  Court has relied upon the testimony	of  one	 eyewitness Hazari P. W. 3 and two witnesses before whom Shivlalis  alleged to have made two dying declarations.  There	 areapparent contradictions between the testimony of Hazari	 andBega.	The  learned High Court Judges disposed of  this  bysaying that Bega's presence"on the spot is open to grave doubts.  As such it is, inour opinion, not proper to contradict the statement of a manwho  was  present  on the spot by  using  the  statement  ofanother man who was in all probability not there."The  learned  Judges  have made	 the  following	 significantobservation in regard to Hazari:"  It  seems  to us that Hazari had said  this	because	 theprosecution was producing Bega, and he must have been  askedto  say that Bega was also present.  So far as the story  ofHazari about -the incident itself is concerned, nothing	 hasbeen brought out in his cross-examination to throw doubts onthis part of his statement."They also pointed out, but attached no importance, to  othercontradictions	in the statements of Hazari made before	 thetrial  court and before the Police.  If as observed  by	 thelearned	 Judges of the High Court, Hazari had mentioned	 thepresence of Bega merelyI858because	 the  latter  was to be produced  as  a	 prosecutionwitness	 and because he (Hazari) had been asked	 to  mentionit, then it would detract so materially from his reliabilitythat it would be dangerous to accept his testimony as  beingof  any	 great value which is still more diminished  by	 thefinding as to the innocence of Mt. Rameshwari.'The  other  piece of evidence which the	 prosecution  reliedupon  was  the	two dying declarations made  by	 Shivlal  toGyaniram  P. W. 4 and Jora P. W. 7. Besides the	 infirmitieswhich the testimony of these two witnesses (Gyaniram P. W. 4and   Jora   P.	 W.  1)	 suffered  from	 due   to   materialcontradictions	in  their  respective  statements  made	  atvarious	 stages of the case and which have been pointed	 outby the learned Sessions Judge who said about Gyaniram:" In such a state of affairs I refuse to put any weight	 andvalue to the statement of Gyaniram.........   ........... ..their evidence cannot be a sure	 foundation for	 maintainingthe  conviction	 if  the statement of Hazari  the  sole	 eyewitness	 is disregarded, as it must be disregarded  in	thiscase;  because	ordinarily a dying declaration of  the	kindwhich	the  prosecution  has  relied  upon  is	 by   itselfinsufficient  for  sustaining a conviction on  a  charge  ofmurder.The  learned  Sessions	Judge was of the  opinion  that	 theevidence of the doctor P. W. II made the story that  Shivlalcould walk for a little distance upto the Khala of Hukma  orwas  able  to  talk  so as  to	make  a	 dying	declaration,improbable.   But  the	learned Judges	of  the	 High  Courtdisposed  of  this  matter by saying  that  the	 doctor	 wascomparatively young and that his statement was not in accordwith the opinion expressed in books on Medical Jurisprudenceby  authors like Modi and Lyon.	 But it cannot be said	thatthe  opinions  of  these authors were  given  in  regard  tocircumstances  exactly similar to those which arose  in	 thecase  now  before  us  nor is this  a  satisfactory  way  ofdisposing of the evidence of an expert unless, the  passageswhich  are sought to discredit his opinion are put  to	him.This  Court in Sundarlal v. The State of Madhya Pradesh	 (1)disapproved of Judges drawing(1)  A.I.R. 1954 S. C. 28859conclusions  adverse  to the accused by	 relying  upon	suchpassages  in  the  absence of their  being  put	 to  medicalwitnesses.   The  learned  Judges of the  High	Court  were,therefore,  in	error in accepting the	testimony  of  thesewitnesses  in  support of the correctness of the  two  dyingdeclarations nor could the statement of the deceased allegedto  have  been	made in the circumstances of  this  case  beconsidered  sufficient	to  support the	 conviction  of	 theaccused.   The	recovery of the kassi is  a  wholly  neutralcircumstance because it has not been proved that it belongedto Bhagwandas.Although this Court will not interfere with the findings  ofthe High Court because its conclusions on the evidence as tothe  guilt or innocence of the accused differ from  that  ofthe  High  Court,  yet where the evidence is  such  that  noTribunal  could legitimately infer from it that the  accusedis  guilty this court would set aside the  conviction.	 TheJudicial   Committee  of  the  Privy  Council	in   StephenSeneviratne  v.	 The King (1) in setting aside an  order  ofconviction said :".  ...... there are here no grounds on the evidence,  takenas  a  whole, upon which any Tribunal could properly,  as  amatter of legitimate inference, arrive at a conclusion	thatthe appellant was guilty......... In  our  view the evidence in the present case is  of	suchquality and no legitimate inference of guilt of the  accusedcould -properly be drawn.The second point on which the judgment of the High Court  isassailed is the lack of compelling reasons for setting asidethe judgment of acquittal. This  court  has held that the High Court  should  not	 setaside  an  acquittal  unless there  are	 "  substantial	 andcompelling  "  reasons	for doing  so.	 Surajpal  Singh  v.State(1)  Ajmer	 Singh v. The State of Punjab (3) Aher	RajaKhima  v. The State of Saurastra (4).  The judgment  of	 theHigh  Court  does not disclose any such	 reasons  justifyinginterference with the findings of the trial Court.(1)  A.I.R. 1936 P.C. 289, 299.(2)  [1952] S.C.R. 193, 201.(3)  [1953] S.C. R. 418, 423,(4)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1285.860We  would,  therefore,	allow this  appeal,  set  aside	 thejudgment  of the Rajasthan High Court, restore that  of	 theSessions Judge and order the acquittal of the accused.			Appeal allowed.