PETITIONER:M.CT. MUTHIAH & 2 OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, MADRAS & ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/12/1955BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJANBOSE, VIVIANJAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1956 AIR  269		  1955 SCR  (2)1247ACT:  Constitution	 of  India,  Art.  14-Taxation	 on   Income(Investigation	Commission) Act, 1947 (Act XXX of 1947),  s.5(1)-Whether  ultra vires the Constitution in view of s.  34of  Indian Income-Tax Act, 1922 (Act XI of 1922) as  amendedby the Income-Tax and Business Profits Tax (Amendment)	Act,1948  (Act  XLVIII  of	1948)  and  the	 Indian	  Income-Tax(Amendment) Act, 1954 (Act XXXIII of 1954).HEADNOTE:   Held	 (Per S. R. DAs, ACTING C.J., VIVIAN BOSE,  BHAGWATIand  B.P. SINHA, JJ.  JAGANNADHADAS J., dissenting) that  s.5(1)  of the Taxation on Income	 (investigation	 Commission)Act, 1947 (Act XXX of 1947) is ultra vires the	Constitutionas  it	is discriminatory and violative of  the	 fundamentalright guaranteed by Art. 14 of the Constitution by reason oftwo  amendments	 which	were made in s.	 34  of	 the  IndianIncome-Tax  Act,  1922 (Act XI of 1922) one in 1948  by	 theenactment of the Income-Tax and Business Profits Tax1248(Amendment) Act, 1948 (Act XLVIII of 1948) and the other  in1954  by the enactment of the Indian Income-Tax	 (Amendment)Act, 1954 (Act XXXIII of 1954).   If  the provisions of s. 34(1) of the  Indian  Income-taxAct  as it stood before its amendment by Act XLVIII of	1948had  been  the only provisions to be considered,  the  Courtwould  have  reached  the same conclusion as it	 did  in  A.Thangal	 Kunju	Musaliar v. M. Venkitachalam Potti  &  Anr.,([1955]	 2  S.C.R. 1196), but the  position  was  materiallyaffected by reason of two amendments made in that section bytwo Acts, one in 1948 and the other in 1954.    Amended  s.	 34(1)	of the	Indian	Income-tax  Act	 wassubstantially  different from the old s. 34(1) which was  inoperation  up to the 8th September 1948.  The words  "if  inconsequence of definite information which has come into	 hispossession  the	 lncome-tax.Officer discovers  that  income,profits	 or  gains  chargeable to  income-tax  have  escapedassessment in any year.............. which appear in the oldsection	 were  substituted by the words "if  the  Income-taxOfficer has reason to believe that by reason of the omissionor  failure on the part of the assessee............  income,profits	 or gains chargeable to income-tax have escaped	 Therequisites  of	(i)"definite" information (ii) which  had  "come  into"  possession	 of the Income-tax  Officer  and  inconsequence  of	 which	(iii) he  "discovers"  that  income,profits	 or  gains  chargeable	to  income-tax	bad  escapedassessment,  were  no longer necessary and  the	 only  thingwhich was required to enable the Income-tax Officer to	takeproceedings  under  S. 34(1) as amended was that  he  shouldhave  reason  to believe that by reason of the	omission  orfailure on the part of the assesses income, profits or gainschargeable  to	income-tax  had	 escaped  assessment  for  aparticular year.  Whereas before this amended s. 34(1)	cameto  be	substituted for the old s. 34(1) there was  no	com-parison between the provisions of s. 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947and s. 34(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act as it then  stood,the  provisions	 of  s.	 34(1)	as  amended  after  the	 8thSeptember 1948 could stand comparison with the provisions ofs. 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947 and the cases which were  coveredby s. 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947 could be dealt with under	 theprocedure  laid	 down in s. 34(1) of the  Indian  Income-taxAct.   After the 8th September 1948, therefore, even in	 thecase  of  substantial  evaders	of  income-tax	who  were  adistinct  class by themselves intended to be treated by	 thedrastic and summary procedure laid down by Act XXX of  1947,some  cases  that  were	 already  referred  by	the  CentralGovernment  for	 investigation by the  Commission  could  bedealt  with under that Act and other cases,  though  fallingwithin the same class or category, could be dealt with underthe  procedure	prescribed in the amended s.  34(1)  of	 theIndian Income-tax Act.	The persons who were thus dealt withunder s. 34(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act had available tothem the whole procedure laid down in that Act including theright  to  inspect documents and the right to  question	 thefindings of fact arrived at1249by  the	 Income-tax Officer by the procedure of	 appeal	 andrevision  and ultimate scrutiny by the Income-tax  AppellateTribunal  which was denied to those persons whose cases	 hadbeen referred by the Central Government for investigation bythe Commission under s.5(1) of Act XXX of 1947.   Different persons, though falling under the same class orcategory  of  substantial  evaders  of	income-tax,   would,therefore, be subject to different procedures, one a summaryand drastic procedure and the other a normal procedure whichgave  to the assessees various rights which were  denied  tothose  who  were  specially  treated  under  the   procedureprescribed in Act XXX of 1947.  Per JAGANNADHADAS J.-The class of persons falling under S.5(1)  of the Taxation on Income	 (Investigation	 Commission)Act,  1947 (Act XXX of 1947) is totally different from	thatwhich  falls within-amended s. 34 of the  Indian  Income-TaxAct  1922 (Act XI of 1922) and therefore s. 5(1) of Act	 XXXof 1947 is not unconstitutional as offending Art. 14 of	 theConstitution.  Suraj Mall Mohta v. A. V. Visvanatha Sasttrii and  Another([1955]	 1 S.C.R. 448), Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. A.  V.Visvanatha  Sastri  and Another ([1955] 1  S.C.R.  787),  A.Thangal Kunju Musaliar v. M. Venkitachalam Potti & Anr.	 andM. Venkitachalam Potti & Anr. v. A. Thangal Kunju  Musaliar,([1955]	 2  S.C.R. 1196), Syed Qasim Bazvi v. The  State  ofHyderabad and Others ([1953] S.C.R. 581), Habeeb Mohamed  v.The  State  of Hyderabad ([1953] S.C.R. 661)  and  GangadharBaijnath and others v. Income-tax Investigation	 Commission,etc. (A.I.R. 1955 All. 515), referred to.JUDGMENT:  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 646 of 1954.   Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.    C.	  R.  Jagadisan, Naunit Lal and T. V.  Balakrishnan,(T.  V. Balakrishnan, with the permission of the court)	 forthe petitioners.   C.	  K.  Daphtary, Solicitor-Genral of India,  (G.	  N.Joshi, B. Ganapathy lyer and R. H. Dhebar, with him) for therespondents.  1955.	 December 20.   BHAGWATI  J.-This  petition	under  Article	32  of	 theConstitution   also   raises   the   question	about	 theconstitutionality of section 5(1) of the Taxation on  IncomeInvestigation Commission Act, 1947 (XXX of 1947).1250The  facts which led to the filing of this petition  may  beshortly stated.  Sir M. Ct.  Muthiah Chettiar who carried on a	 flourishingbanking	 business in India and foreign countries died in  orabout	1929  leaving  behind  him  two	 sons  M.  Ct.	  M.Chidambaram Chettiar (since deceased) and M. Ct.  M. MuthiahChettiar, petitioner 3, and his widow Devanai Achi.  M.	 Ct.M.  Chidambaram	 Chettiar continued  the  ancestral  bankingbusiness  and also started several  commercial	enterprises.He  died  by an accident while traveling in a plane  in	 theyear 1954 leaving behind him his two sons, the petitioners 1& 2. Devanai Achi had predeceased him.	The petitioners 1  &2  are the legal representatives of the deceased M. Ct.	  M.Chidambaram  Chettiar and also the representatives of  theirgrandmother Devanai Achi.  The  Central Government, in exercise of its  powers  undersection 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947, referred to the  Income-taxInvestigation  Commission  R.  C.  Nos.	 516,  517  and	 518relating  to  M. Ct.  M. Chidambaram Chettiar,	M.  Ct.	  M.Muthiah	 Chettiar,  petitioner	3, and	Devanai	 Achi.	 TheCommission, after holding an enquiry in all the three cases,recorded  their findings and held that an aggregate  sum  ofRs. 10,07,322-4-3 represented the undisclosed income  duringthe  investigation period and directed distribution of	thissum  over the several years in the manner indicated by	themin Schedule A to their report.	This report was submitted bythe  Commission to the Government on the 26th  August  1952.The Central Government considered the report and, purportingto act under section 8(2) of the Act directed by their orderNo.  74	 (26)  I.T./52 dated the 16th  September  1952	thatappropriate action under the Indian Income-tax Act be  takenagainst the assessees with a view to assess or re-assess theincome which had escaped assessment for the years 1940-41 to1948-49.  In  pursuance	 of  the  said	directions  of	the  CentralGovernment  the Income-tax Officer, City Circle	 1,  Madras,issued notices under section 34 of the Indian Income-tax Actand made the reassessment for the1251years 1940-41, 1941-42 and 1943-44 to 1948-49 based upon thefindings  of the Commission which were treated as final	 andconclusive.   The assessment orders for the  years  1940-41,1941-42 and 1948-49 were served on the assessees on the 20thFebruary  1954.	 Assessment orders for the years 1943-44  to1947-48 were served on the 12th May 1954.  There  assessmentorder  for  the year 1942-43 was -Dot  made  though  noticesunder  section	34  of the Indian Income-tax  Act  had	beenissued	by the Income-tax Officer on the assessees   on	 the19th  March  1954.   It	 appears  that	these  re-assessmentproceedings  for  the year 1942-43 are yet  pending  and  noassessment order in respect of that year has yet been servedon the petitioners.  In  regard to the assessment orders which were  served  onthe  20th  February 1954, the petitioners preferred  on	 the18th  May 1954 applications to the Commissioner	 of  Income-tax, Madras, under section 8(5) of the Act for references tothe High Court on questions of law arising out of those	 re-assessment orders passed by the Income-tax Officer.  Similarapplications were preferred thereafter in respect of the re-assessment  orders which were served on the  petitioners  onthe 12th May 1954.  These applications are still pending.  On  the  6th	December 1954,	the  petitioners  filed	 thepresent	 petition contending that the provisions of the	 ActXXX  of 1947 were illegal, ultra vires and  unconstitutionalmainly	on  the	 ground	 that they  were  violative  of	 thefundamental  right  guaranteed	under  article	14  of	 theConstitution.  The  grounds urged in support of this contention were	 notfelicitously  expressed.   The petitioners  appear  to	havemixed up the contentions which could be urged as a result ofour judgments in Suraj Mall Mohta v. A. V. Visvanatha Sastriand  Another(1)	 and  Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd.  v.  A.  V.Visvanatha  Sastri  and Another(2).  They contended  in	 thefirst instance that after the amendment of section 34 of theIndian Income-tax Act by Act XXXIII of 1954, which inter (1)[1955] 1 S.C.R. 448. 158	(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 787.1252alia,  added sub-sections (1-A) to (1-D) to section 34,	 theprovisions of section 5(1) of the Act became discriminatory,as on a reading of both the enactments, Act XXX of 1947	 andthe  Income-tax	 Act  as amended in 1954  showed  that	theyapplied	 to  the  same category of  persons  and  there	 wasnothing	 in section 5 (1) of the Act or any other  provisionof   the  said	Act  disclosing	 any  valid  or	  reasonableclassification.	  The  provisions of Act XXX of	 1947  couldnot, therefore,be sustained on the ground of  classificationto  avoid  the mischief of article 14 of  the  Constitution.The petitioners obviously relied upon our decision in  ShreeMeenakshi Mill's case, supra, in support of this contention.   The	petitioners  thereafter proceeded to set  out  theiralternative contention based upon our decision in Suraj MallMohta's case, supra, though it was not so stated in  expressterms.	 They  contended that Act XXX of  1947	enabled	 theCentral	 Government to discriminate between one	 person	 andanother inasmuch as they were authorised to pick and  choosecases of persons who fell within the group of those who	 hadsubstantially evaded taxation on income, that the act of theGovernment  in referring some evaders to the Commission	 waswholly	arbitrary  and there was nothing  to  eliminate	 thepossibility of a favouritism or a discrimination against  anindividual by sending or not sending cases to the Commissionas  between  two persons both of whom might  be	 within	 thegroup of those who have evaded the payment of tax to a	sub-stantial extent.  They further contended that the  procedureprescribed  under  the impugned Act was	 substantially	moreprejuducial  and  more	drastic to  the	 assessee  than	 theprocedure prescribed under the Indian Income-tax Act.  Therewas  no	 reasonableness	 or justification  that	 one  personshould have the advantage of the procedure prescribed by theIndian Income-tax Act while another person similarlysituated should be deprived of it.   They,  therefore, contended that section 5(1) of the	 Actwas  discriminatory  and  violative of	article	 14  of	 theConstitution and asked for the issue of a writ of1253certiorari or any other appropriate writ, direction or orderquashing   the	report	of  the	  Income-tax   InvestigationCommission dated the 29th August 1952 enclosed as Annexure Ato the petition and the assessment orders of the  Income-taxOfficer for the years 1940-41, 1941-42, and 1943-44 to 1948-49  as being unconstitutional, null and void and also  of  awrit of prohibition calling upon the Commissioner of Income-tax,  Madras, respondent 1 and the Income-tax Officer,	CityCircle 1, Madras, respondent 2 or their subordinate officersto   forbear   from  implementing  the	 findings   of	 theInvestigation Commission with regard to the year 1942-43.    This petition was heard along with Civil Appeals Nos. 21and   22   of  1954,  A.  Thangal  Kunju  Musaliar   v.	  M.Venkitachalam  Potti & Another and M. Venkitachalam Potti  &Another	 v. A. Thangal Kunju Musaliar(1), which also  raisedinter alia the cognate question about the  constitutionalityof section 5(1) of the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 which	 wasin pari materia with section 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947.   In  regard  to the question whether there is	 a  rationalbasis  of  classification to be found in  the  enactment  ofsection	 5(1)  of  the Act, the preamble  and  the  relevantprovisions  of	Act  XXX  of  1947  are	 the  same  as	wereconsidered by us in considering this question in relation tothe  Travancore	 Act  XIV of 1124,  The	 words	"substantialextent"	 also  have been used in both the Acts	and  in	 thepresent	 case as in the cases of the Travancore	 petitionersconcerned in the Evasion Cases Nos.  I and 2 of 1125 (M.E.),Gauri	 Shanker,   Secretary,	 Income-tax    InvestigationCommission  made an affidavit dated the 21st September	1955wherein he set out the events and circumstances under  whichAct  XXX of 1947 came to be passed.  In paragraph 4 of	thataffidavit he stated:   "It	was  found that during the period of  the  last	 warlarge  fortunes	 had  been made	 by  businessmen.   Controlsimposed by Government on prices and distribution, were oftenevaded	and  secret profits were made and kept	outside	 thebooks  and often kept invested in shares and  real  propertyacquired in the (1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1196.1254names of benamidars or in cash purchases of gold, silver andjewellery.   The machinery of Income-tax administration	 wasunable	to cope with the large number of complex cases	thathad  to be dealt with, during the war years and a few  yearsafter  its  termination.  As there had been  a	large  scaleevasion	 of tax during this period, it became  necessary  inthe public interests to investigate cases of evasion of	 in-come-tax  and  bring under assessment huge profit  that	 hadescaped	  assessment.	As  a  preliminary  step   in	thisdirection, a demonetisation Ordinance was passed in  January1946 sterilising the High Denomination Notes in which secretprofits earned during the war years had been partly kept andcalling	 for  a	 statement  regarding  the  source  of	suchprofits.  This was followed by the Income-tax  InvestigationCommission  Bill.  In view of the prolonged and	 complicatedenquiries  that bad to be made to unearth these	 secret	 warprofits and bring them under assessment a special Commissionwas constituted to enquire into the profits made since	1939but  which  had	 escaped assessment.  I	 say  that  what  isintended  to investigate is evasion of payment	of  taxationwhich could reasonably be called "Substantial" and thereforethe  classification  is real  classification.	The  statutemerely	leaves	the selective application of the law  to  bemade  by  the executive authorities in accordance  with	 thestandards indicated in the Act itself".  This	 affidavit   furnished	the   background   and	 thesurrounding circumstances obtaining at the time when Act XXXof  1947  was enacted and if this background is	 taken	intoaccount it would be obvious that the substantial evaders  ofpayment	 of  income-tax	 whose cases were  referred  by	 theCentral	 Government  to	 the Commission formed	a  class  bythemselves and there was a rational basis of  classificationin the enactment of section 5(1) of the Act.   The	argument that the terms of section 5(1) enabled	 theCentral	  Government  to  pick	and  choose  the  cases	  ofparticular individuals falling within that category  leavingthe cases of other persons falling within the same  categoryto be dealt with in accord-1255ance  with  the provisions of section 34(1)  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act as it stood prior to the amendment  of	1948has  been already dealt with in our judgment in	 A.  ThangalKunju  Musaliar v. M. Venkitachalam Potti & Another,  supra,while  dealing with the corresponding provisions of  section5(1) of the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 and section 47 of theTravancore Act XXIII of 1121 and we have pointed out that sofar  as the Indian Income-tax Act as it was in existence  onthe 18th April 1947 (which was the date on which Act XXX  of1947  received	the assent of  the  Governor-General)  stoodunamended  by Act XLVIII of 1948, the cases of	persons	 whofell within the category of substantial evaders of incometaxwithin the meaning of section 5(1) of the Act could not havebeen dealt with under the provisions of section 34(1) of theIndian	 Income-tax  Act  and,	therefore,  there   was	  nodiscrimination	and  no violation of the  fundamental  rightguaranteed under article 14 of the Constitution.   The	other  argument that the selection  of	the  personswhose  cases were to be referred by the	 Central  Governmentfor investigation to the Commission was left to the unguidedand   uncontrolled  discretion	of  the	 executive  or	 theadministrative	officials also has been dealt with  in	thatjudgment  and we need not repeat our reasons  for  rejectingthe same.   If the provisions of section 34(1) of the Indian  Income-tax  Act as it stood unamended by Act XLVIII of 1948  (whichcorresponded  with  the	 provisions of	section	 47  of	 theTravancore  Act XXIII of 1121) had been the only  provisionsto  be considered we would have reached the same  conclusionas we did in A.	    Thangal    Kunju	Musaliar    v.	  M.Venkitachalam Potti& Another, supra.  The position, however,in the present case is materially affected by reason of	 thetwo  amendments which were made in section 34 of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act, one in 1948 by the enactment of Act  XLVIIIof 1948 and the other in 1954 by the enactment of Act XXXIIIof 1954.  Section 34 as amended by Act XLVIII of 1948 read as under;1256"Section 34 (1): If-  (a)	  the Income-tax Officer has reason to believe	thatby  reason  of	the omission or failure on the	part  of  anassessee to make a return of his income under section 22 forany  year or to disclose fully and truly all material  factsnecessary for his assessment for that year, income,  profitsor  gains chargeable to income-tax have	 escaped  assessmentfor  that year, or have been under-assessed or	assessed  attoo low a, rate, or have been made the subject of  excessiverelief	under  the Act, or excessive  loss  or	depreciationallowance has been computed, or   (b)	  notwithstanding that there has been no omission orfailure	 as  mentioned	in clause (a) on  the  part  of	 theassessee,  the	Income-tax  Officer has	 in  consequence  ofinformation in his possession reason to believe that income,profits	 or  gains  chargeable to  income-tax  have  escapedassessment  for	 any year, or have been	 under-assessed,  orassessed at too low a rate, or have been made the subject ofexcessive  relief under this Act, or that excessive loss  ordepreciation  allowance has been computed,he may in cases falling under clause (a) at any time  withineight  years  and in cases falling under clause (b)  at	 anytime within four years of the end of that year, serve on theassessee, or, if the assessee is a company, on the principalofficer	 thereof,  a  notice containing all or	any  of	 therequirements  which may be included in a notice	 under	sub-section	 (2) of section 22 and may proceed to assess or	 re-assess	such income, profits or gains or recompute the	lossor  depreciation allowance; and the provisions of  this	 Actshall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the  noticewere a notice issued under that sub-section:Act  XXXIII of 1954 introduced into section 34	sub-sections(1-A)  to (1-D).  Section 34(1-A) which is material for	 ourpurposes provided:"Section  34  (1-A): If, in the case of	 any  assessee,	 theIncome-tax Officer has reason to believe-(i)  that income, profits or gains chargeable to  income-taxhave escaped assessment for any year in1257respect of which the relevant previous year falls wholly  orpartly	within	the  period  beginning on  the	1st  day  ofSeptember, 1939, and ending on the 31st day of March,  1946;and,(ii)that the income, profits or gains which have so  escapedassessment for any such year or years amount, or are  likelyto amount, to one lakh of rupees or more;  he may, notwithstanding that the period of eight years or,as the case may be, four years specified in sub-section	 (1)has  expired in respect thereof, serve on the assessee,	 or,if  the	 assessee  is a company, on  the  principal  officerthereof, a notice containing all or any of the	requirementswhich  may be included in a notice under sub-section (2)  ofsection	 22,  and  may proceed to assess  or  re-assess	 theincome,	 profits or gains of the assessee for all or any  ofthe  years  referred  to in clause (i),	 and  thereupon	 theprovisions of this Act (excepting those contained in clauses(i) and (iii) of the proviso to sub-section (1) and in	sub-sections  (2) and (3) of this section) shall, so far as	 maybe, apply accordingly:  Provided  that- the Income-tax Officer shall not  issue  anotice	under  this sub-section unless he has  recorded	 hisreasons	 for doing so, and the Central Board of	 Revenue  issatisfied on such reasons recorded that it is a fit case forthe issue of such notice:Provided  further that no such notice shall be issued  afterthe 31st day of March, 1956".Amended	 section  34(1)	 of the Indian	Income-tax  Act	 wassubstantially different from the old section 34(1) which wasin operation up to the 8th September 1948.  The words "if inconsequence -of definite information which has come into hispossession  the	 Income-tax Officer discovers  that  income,profits	 or  gains  chargeable to  income-tax  have  escapedassessment  in	any year " which appear in the	old  sectionwere substituted by the words "If the Incometax Officer	 hasreason to believe that by reason of the omission or  failureon the part of the assessee ................ income, profitsor gains chargeable to income-tax have escaped assessment ".The1258requisites  of (i) "definite" information (ii) which  had  "come  into"  possession	 of the Income-tax  Officer  and  inconsequence  of	 which	(iii) he  "discovers"  that  income,profits	 or  gains  chargeable	to  income-tax	had  escapedassessment,  were  no longer necessary and  the	 only  thingwhich  was required to enable the Incometax Officer to	takeproceedings  under  section  34(1) as amended  was  that  heshould have reason to believe that by reason of the omissionor  failure on the part of the assessee income,	 profits  orgains chargeable to income-tax had escaped assessment for  aparticular year.  Whereas before this amended section  34(1)came  to be substituted for the old section 34(1) there	 wasno comparison between the provisions of section 5(1) of	 ActXXX  of 1947 and section 34(1) of the Indian Income-tax	 Actas it then stood, the provisions of section 34(1) as amendedafter the 8th September 1948 could stand comparison with theprovisions of section 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947 and the  caseswhich were covered by section 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947  couldbe dealt with under the procedure laid down in section 34(1)of the Indian Income-tax Act.  After the 8th September 1948,therefore,  even  in  the case	of  substantial	 evaders  ofincome-tax who were a distinct class by themselves  intendedto be treated by the drastic and summary procedure laid downby Act XXX of 1947, some cases that were already referred bythe  Central Government for investigation by the  Commissioncould  be dealt with under that Act and other cases,  thoughfalling	 within the same class or category, could  be  dealtwith  under the procedure prescribed in the amended  section34(1)  of the Indian Income tax Act.  The persons  who	werethus dealt with under section 34(1) of the Indian  IncometaxAct  had available to them the whole procedure laid down  inthat  Act including the right to inspect documents  and	 theright  to  question the findings of fact arrived at  by	 theIncome-tax  Officer by the procedure of appeal and  revisionand  ultimate scrutiny by the Income-tax Appellate  Tribunalwhich  was  denied  to those persons whose  cases  had	beenreferred by the Central Government for investigation by the1259Commission under section 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947.  The  juxtaposition of dates is also very instructive.	  Itmay  be noted that in Act XXX of 1947 as it  was  originallyenacted, the period up to which the Central Government couldmake the references to the Commission for investigation	 waslaid  down in section 5(1) of the Act to be 30th June  1948.This  period was extended to the 1st September 1948  by	 theTaxation   on  Income  (Investigation	Commission)   SecondAmendment  Act, 1948 (XLIX of 1948).  Act XLIX of  1948	 waspassed by the Central Legislature and received the assent ofthe Governor-General on the 8th September 1948, the same dayon  which Act XLVIII of 1948 which amended section 34(1)  ofthe  Indian Income-tax Act also received the assent  of	 theGovernor-General.  Both these Acts, viz., Act XLVIII of 1948and  Act  XLIX	of  1948  were	passed	simultaneously	 andobviously  with	 a view to bring the provisions	 of  section5(1)  of  Act XXX of 1947 and section 34(1)  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act in tune with each other.	 It appears to	havebeen realized that the substantial evaders of income-tax  inrespect	 of  whom  the Central Government  had	prima  faciereasons for believing that they had to a substantial  extentevaded	payment of taxation on income could not	 have  theircases referred for investigation by the Commission after the30th  June 1948, that having been the time limit  originallyprescribed  in section 5(1) of the Act.	 It also appears  tohave  been  felt  that	the period  could  not	possibly  beextended beyond the 1st September 1948 with the result	thatapart  from the cases of substantial evaders  of  income-taxwhich  were referred by the Central Government for  investi-gation to the Commission up to the 1st September 1948  therewould  be  a large number of such cases	 which	though	theycould  not be referred for investigation to  the  Commissionwould  have to be dealt with under the	ordinary  provisionsfor taxation of income that had escaped assessment availablein section 34 and the cognate sections of the Indian Income-tax Act.  As section 34(1) then stood, the requisites of1591260definite  information  coming  into the	 possession  of	 theIncome-tax  Officer  in consequence of which  be  discoveredthat  income, profits or gains chargeable to income-tax	 hadescaped	 assessment  would certainly not  have	availed	 theGovernment  in	tracking down these substantial	 evaders  ofincome-tax  and it appears, therefore, to have been  thoughtnecessary  that section 34(1) of the Indian  Income-tax	 Actshould be amended so as to enable the Income-tax Officer  totake proceedings thereunder if he had reason to believe thatby  reason  of	omission  or failure  on  the  part  of	 theassessee............ income, profits or gains chargeable  toincome-tax  had escaped assessment for the relevant  period.An  amendment of section 34(1) in this manner  would  enableGovernment  to pass on the requisite information which	theyhad obtained in regard to the substantial evaders of income-tax to the Income-tax Officers concerned and ask the Income-tax  Officers to take proceedings against those	 evaders  ofincome-tax  under  the amended section 34(1) of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act.  That appears to have been the real  objectof  the amendment of section 34(1) of the Indian  Income-taxAct with effect from the 8th September 1948.  The Commissionwould proceed with the references which were made to them upto  the	 1st  September 1948  and  the	Income-tax  Officersconcerned would take the requisite proceedings under section34(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act as amended after the	 8thSeptember 1948 against all persons whose income, profits  orgains  had escaped assessment including substantial  evadersof income-tax whose cases would certainly have been referredby  the Central Government for investigation to the  Commis-sion  if it had been possible for them to do so	 before	 thefirst  September 1948.	After the 8th September 1948,  therewere  two  procedures simultaneously in operation,  the	 oneunder Act XXX of 1947 and the other under the Indian Income-tax  Act with reference to persons who fell within the	sameclass or category, viz., that of the substantial evaders  ofincome-tax.   After the 8th September 1948, therefore,	somepersons who fell within the class of substantial evaders of1261income-tax  were  dealt with under the drastic	and  summaryprocedure  prescribed  under Act XXX of	 1947,	while  otherpersons	 who  fell  within the	same  class  of	 substantialevaders	 of  income-tax	 could	be  dealt  with	 under	 theprocedure  prescribed  in the Indian  Income-tax  Act  afterservice of notice upon them under the amended section  34(1)of  the	 Act.  Different persons, though falling  under	 thesame class or category of substantial evaders of income-tax,would, therefore, be subject to different procedures, one  asummary	 and  drastic  procedure  and  the  other  a  normalprocedure  which gave to the assessees various rights  whichwere  denied to those who were specially treated  under	 theprocedure prescribed in Act XXX of 1947.   The legislative competence being there, these provisions,though discriminatory, could not have been challenged beforethe   advent  of  the  Constitution.   When,  however,	 theConstitution  came into force on the 26th January 1950,	 thecitizens  obtained the fundamental rights enshrined in	PartIII  of the Constitution including the right to equality  oflaws  and  equal protection of laws enacted  in	 article  14thereof, and whatever may have been the position before	 the26th  January  1950, it was open to the persons	 alleged  tobelong to the class of substantial evaders thereafter to askas  to	why some of them were subjected to the	summary	 anddrastic	 procedure prescribed in Act XXX of 1947 and  otherswere subjected to the normal procedure prescribed in section34  and the cognate sections of the Indian  Income-tax	Act,the procedure prescribed in Act XXX of 1947 being  obviouslydiscriminatory and, therefore, violative of the	 fundamentalright guaranteed under article 14 of the Constitution.  It  would be no answer to suggest that  those	 substantialevaders whose cases were referred by the Central  Governmentfor investigation by the Commission before the 1st September1948  formed  a class by themselves  leaving  others  thoughbelonging  to  the  same class or  category  of	 substantialevaders of1262income-tax  to	be  dealt with	by  the	 ordinary  procedureprescribed  in the Indian Income-tax Act without  infringingthe  fundamental  right guaranteed under article 14  of	 theConstitution.  A similar argument had been, advanced  beforeus  by	the  learned  Attorney-General	appearing  for	 theCommission in Shree Meenakshi Mills case, supra.  The groundwhich he had urged was "that the class of persons dealt withunder section 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947 was not only the classof  substantial	 tax dodgers but it was a class	 of  personswhose cases the Central Government, by 1st September,  1948,had  referred  to  the Commission and that  class  had	thusbecome	determined finally on that date, and that  class  ofpersons could be dealt with by the Investigation  Commissionunder the drastic procedure of Act XXX of 1947 while section34  of	the Indian Income-tax Act as amended  empowered	 theIncome-tax Officer to deal with cases other than those whosecases	had  been  referred  under  section  5(1)   to	 theInvestigation  Commission  ......... " Mahajan,	 C.  J.	 whodelivered the judgment of the Court dealt with this argumentat page 795(1) as under:  "As regards the first contention canvassed by the  learnedAttorney-General  it  seems  to	 us  that  it  cannot  standscrutiny. , The class of persons alleged to have been  dealtwith  by section 5(1) of the impugned Act was  comprised  ofthose unsocial elements in society who during  recent  yearsprior to the passing of the Act had made substantial profitsand  bad  evaded payment of tax on those profits  and  whosecases  were referred to the Investigation Commission  before1st  September,	 1948.	Assuming that evasion of  tax  to  asubstantial  amount could form a basis of classification  atall  for  imposing a drastic procedure' on that	 class,	 theinclusion of only such of them whose cases had been referredbefore	1st  September, 1948, into a class for	being  dealtwith by the drastic procedure, leaving other tax evaders  tobe  dealt  with	 under	the ordinary law  will	be  a  cleardiscrimination	for  the  reference of	the  case  within  aparticular time (1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 787, 795.1263has  no	 special or rational nexus with	 the  necessity	 fordrastic procedure..........These  observations  were  made	 to  repel  the	  particularargument  of the learned Attorney-General but they  did	 notlay  down that in fact section 5(1) was confined to  such  alimited class.  We are further supported in this view by the fact that  bythe  later amendment of section 34 of the Indian  Income-taxAct  effected by Act XXXIII of 1954, the time limit for	 theissue of notice under section 34(1-A) of the Indian  Income-tax  Act has been fixed as the 31st day of March  1956.	  Itis,  therefore, clear that the period originally  fixed	 forthe reference of the cases of substantial evaders of income-tax  for  investigation by the Commission, viz.	 30th  June,1948 or the extended period, viz., I St September, 1948 pro-vided in section 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947 or the period fixedby  the	 new section 34(1-A) of the Indian  Income-tax	Act,viz.,  31st day of March 1956 was not a necessary  attributeof  the class of substantial evaders of income-tax  but	 wasmerely	 an  accident  and  a  measure	 of   administrativeconvenience  and was not an element in the formation of	 theparticular class of substantial evaders of income-tax. It  follows, therefore, that after the inauguration of	 theConstitution  on the 26th January, 1950, the  persons  whosecases were referred for investigation by Central  Governmentto  the Commission up to the 1st September, 1948  could,  touse the words of Mabaian C.   J.  in Shree  Meenakshi  Millscase, supra, at page 794ask:"........    why  are  we  now	being  dealt  with  by	 thediscriminatory and drastic procedure of Act XXX of 1947 whenthose  similarly situated as ourselves can be dealt with  bythe  Income-tax	 Officer  under the  amended  provisions  ofsection	 34 of the Act?	 Even if we once bore a	 distinctivelabel that distinction no longer subsists and the label	 nowborne  by us is the same as is borne by persons who  can  bedealt with under section 34 of the Act as amended; in  otherwords, there is nothing uncommon either in properties or  incharacteristics between us and those evaders of1264income-tax who are to be discovered by the Incometax Officerunder the provisions of amended section 34".  We  may also add, adopting the same phraseology,  that  inour judgment, no satisfactory answer can be returned to thisquery  because the field on which the amended section  34(1)operated  from and after the 26th January 1950 included	 thestrip  of territory which was also occupied by section	5(1)of  Act XXX of 1947 and two substantially different laws  ofprocedure,  one being more prejudicial to the assessee	thanthe other, could not be allowed to operate on the same fieldin view of the guarantee of article 14 of the Constitution.  The  result,	therefore,  is that  barring  the  cases  ofpersons which were already concluded by reports made by	 theCommission   and   the	directions  given   by	 the-CentralGovernment under section 8(2) of Act XXX of 1947 culminatingin  the	 assessment or reassessment of the  escaped  income,those cases which were pending on the 26th January 1950	 forinvestigation  before the Commission as also the  assessmentor  reassessment proceedings which were pending on the	26thJanuary	 1950  before the Income-tax Officers  concerned  inpursuance of the directions given by the Central  Governmentunder section 8(2) of the Act would be hit by article 14  ofthe Constitution and would be invalidated.  The R. C.  Cases516,  517  and	518  relating  to  M.  Ct.   M.	 ChidambaramChettiar,  M.  Ct. Muthiah Chettiar and	 Devanai  Achi	werepending before the Commission on the 26th January 1950,	 thereport	therein not having been made by the Commission	tillthe 26th August 1952 and the Commission had, after the	26thJanuary 1950, no jurisdiction to complete the  investigationand  make their report, the whole procedure being  violativeof the fundamental right guaranteed to the petitioners underarticle 14 of the Constitution.  This	position  was not in terms argued before us  by	 thelearned	 counsel for the petitioners.  It was urged  in	 thefirst instance that the case was governed by our decision inShree, Meenakshi Mills' case, supra, on1265the  basis  that  by  reason  of  the  applications  to	 theCommissioner of Income-tax, Madras, made by the	 petitionersunder  section	8(5) of the Act for reference  to  the	HighCourt  on  questions of law arising out	 of  the  Income-taxOfficer's  re-assessment  orders  above	 referred  to,	 theproceedings  under Act XXX of 1947 had not become final	 andthe  petitioners were, therefore, entitled to relief on	 theratio of our judgment in that case.  Reliance was placed  insupport	 of this position on the provisions of section	8(4)of the Act:  "In  all assessment or re-assessment proceedings taken  inpursuance of a direction under sub-section (2), the findingsrecorded  by  the Commission on the case or  on	 the  pointsreferred  to  it shall, subject to the	provisions  of	sub-sections (5) and (6), be final; but no proceedings taken  inpursuance of such direction shall be a bar to the initiationof  proceedings	 under section 34 of the  Indian  Income-taxAct,1922 (XI of 1922)".  Sub-section (5) has reference to, the application made  bythe  assessee to the Commissioner of Income-tax to refer  tothe  High  Court  any question of law  arising	out  of	 theassessment  or re-assessment orders and sub-section (6)	 hasreference to the power of the Commission either of their ownmotion	or on the application of the person concerned or  ofthe  Central Government to correct clerical or	arithmeticalmistakes in their report or errors therein arising from	 anyaccidental  slip or omission.............. These  provisionscontained  in sub-sections (5) and (6), however,  would	 notmake  the findings recorded by the Commission any  the	lessfinal.	 These findings were invested with finality  subjectto  this  that if the High Court, on  reference	 under	sub-section (5), gave any opinion which would require a revisionof  those  findings  or	 if  any  clerical  or	arithmeticalmistakes  were	found or errors were detected  arising	fromaccidental  slip  or  omission within the  meaning  of	sub-section	 (6)  which also required some	alterations  in	 thefindings, these findings would be divested of their finalityand would have to be revised accordingly.  The assessment orre-assessment orders made by the Income-1266tax Officers based upon those findings would also be bindingon  the	 assessees  subject  only  to  the  result  of	 thereference,  if any, made to the High Court on  questions  oflaw arising out of such orders.  If this was the true position, it could not be urged	thatby reason of the pendency of the applications for  referenceto the High Court the proceedings under Act XXX of 1947	 hadnot been concluded against the petitioners and it could	 notalso  be  urged	 that when Act XXXIII of  1954	was  enactedintroducing  section  34(1-A)  in the  Income-tax  Act	witheffect	from the 19th July 1954, the R.C. Cases 516  to	 518were pending and the whole proceedings under Act XXX of 1947against	 the petitioners were invalidated.  As a  matter  offact the -report had been made by the Commission against thepetitioners  as early as the 26th August 1952,	the  CentralGovernment had given the directions under section 8 (2)	 forre-assessment of the petitioners on the 16th September	1952and  the re-assessment orders for all the years	 except	 theyear 1942-43 had been made by the Income-tax Officer againstthem  by  the 12th May 1954 which was long  before  the	 ActXXXIII	 of  1954  came	 into  operation.   All	 these	 re-assessments  had thus become binding on the petitioners	 andwere  not affected by the mere pendency of the	applicationsfor  reference	to  the	 High Court  made  by  them  to	 theCommissioner of Incometax, Madras, under section 8(5) of theAct. There	is  also a further point to be	considered  in	thisconnection and it is that whatever discriminatory  procedurethe petitioners were subjected to by reason of the referenceof  their cases by the Central Government to the  Commissionunder section 5(1) of the Act had been completed long beforethe  Act  XXXIII of 1954 came into operation  and  the	onlyfurther	 procedure which they would be subjected  under	 theprovisions  of Act XXX of 1947 would be that of a  referenceto  the	 High Court on questions of law arising out  of	 theorders	of re-assessment if these applications were  grantedeither by the Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras, or by	 theHigh  Court  on further application.  In the event  of	suchreference being1267 made,	the  petitioners  had the  additional  advantage  ofhaving	their references heard by the High Court in a  Benchconstituted of not less than three Judges as contrasted withthe normal procedure obtaining under sections 66 and 66-A ofthe  Indian Income-tax Act under which the references  couldbe beard a Division Bench of the High Court.  Whatever	was,therefore,  the procedure to which the petitioners would  besubjected  under  Act  XXX of 1947, after  the	coming	intooperation  of  Act XXXIII of 1954 it was, instead  of  beingprejudicial  to	 them,	really	advantageous  to  them,	 andfollowing our decisions in the cases of Syed Qasim Razvi  v.The  State of Hyderabad and Others(1) and Habeeh Mohamed  v.The  State of Hyderabad(2), we are of the opinion  that	 thefurther proceedings, if any, which could be taken under	 theprovisions  of	Act  XXX  of  1947  would  not	be  at	 alldiscriminatory	and  violative	of  the	 fundamental   rightguaranteed under article 14 of the Constitution.  The  only  relief which the petitioners  would  have	beenentitled  to in that event would have been one in regard  tothe  re-assessment  proceedings for the year  1942-43  whichwere  pending before the Incometax Officer by virtue of	 thenotice under section 34 issued by him to the petitioners  onthe 19th March 1954.  Reliance was placed upon a decision ofthe Allahabad High Court reported in Gangadhar Baijnath	 andothers	v. Income-tax Investigation Commission,	 etc.(3)  insupport of this position.  The learned Solicitor-General didnot  contest  this position but undertook on behalf  of	 theIncome-tax  authorities that they will not  proceed  againstthe  petitioners for the re-assessment for the year  1942-43in pursuance of the notice under section 34 served upon themin that behalf.  This	would  have  been  the	only  relief  to  which	 thepetitioners   would  have  become  entitled  on	  the	maincontention urged by them in their petition.  The petitionersare,  however,	entitled  to  succeed  on  the	 alternativecontentions which were raised by them as(1) [1953] S.C.R. 589.		 (2) [1953] S.C.R. 661.(3) A.I.R. 1955 All. 515.1601268the result of the conclusion which we have reached above  inregard	to  the proceedings pending  before  the  Commissionhaving become discriminatory after the 26th January 1950  byreason	 of   section  5(1)  of	 the   Act   having   becomeunconstitutional    after    the   inauguration	   of	 theConstitution,on that date.In the result, the petitioners will be entitled to the issueof  a writ of certiorari quashing the report of the  Income-tax Investigation Commission dated the 29th August 1952	 andthe assessment orders of the Incometax Officer for the years1940-41,   1941-42   and  1943-44  to	1948-49	  as   beingunconstitutional, null and void, and also to the issue of  awrit   of   prohibition	  against   the	  respondents	fromimplementing  the findings of the  Investigation  Commissionreferred  to above with regard to the ear 1942-43 and we  doorder  that  such  writs do issue  against  the	 respondentsaccordingly.   The  respondents will  pay  the	petitioners'costs of this petition. JAGANNADHADAS J.-This petition raises the question  whethersection	 5(1)  of  the	Taxation  on  Income  (InvestigationCommission)  Act,  1947	 (Act  XXX  of	1947)	(hereinafterreferred   to  as  the	Investigation  Commission  Act)	  isunconstitutional as offending article 14 of the Constitutionand  has therefore become void on the coming into  force  ofthe  Constitution on the 26th January, 1950.  This  questionwas specifically left open in the two previous decisions  ofthis  Court,  viz.  in	Suraj Mall Mohta  &  Co.  v.  A.  Y.Visvanatha Sastri(1) and Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. A. V.Visvanatha  Sastri(2).	Almost the identical question  arosein the Travancore Appeals(3) in which judgment has just	 nowbeen delivered.	 The provision with which we were  concernedin  those appeals is section 5(1) of Travancore Act  XIV  of1924  which is almost in identical terms as section 5(1)  ofthe  Investigation Commission Act.  We have held  that	thissection of the Travancore Act did not, on the coming(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 448.      (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 787.(3) A.	Thangal Kunju Musaliar Y. Authorised Official, I. T.[1955] 2 S.C.R. 1196.1269into  operation	 of  the Constitution,	violate	 article  14thereof and that it accordingly continued to be valid.	Thisresult was based on the following conclusions.  (a)	  The expression "a person who has to a	 substantialextent	evaded	payment	 of taxation on income"	 has  to  beinterpreted   having  regard  to  the  background   or	 thecircumstances that preceded at the time the section came  tobe  enacted and which were disclosed in the affidavit  filedin  this  Court	 by  the  Secretary  of	 the   InvestigationCommission   and  so  interpreted  the	word   "substantial"indicates  with	 reasonable certainty the class	 of  personsintended  to  be subjected to the drastic procedure  of	 theAct.  (b)	  The selective application of the law to persons inthis class cannot be considered invalid since the  selectionis  guided  by the very objective set out  in  section	5(1)itself  (c)	  The  fact  that some persons may  escape  the	 ap-plication  of the law is not necessarily destructive of	 theefficacy of the provision.  It  was also held, on a comparison with section 47 of	 theTravancore  Act XXIII of 1121, corresponding to -section  34of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922) as it  stoodprior  to its amendment in 1948, that the persons  who	fallunder the class of substantial evaders of income-tax  withinthe meaning of section 5(1) of the Investigation  CommissionAct  were not intended to be and could not have	 been  dealtwith  under the provisions of section 47 of  the  TravancoreAct  XXIII  of	1121 and that therefore there  would  be  nodiscriminatory	 application  of  two	parallel   statutoryprovisions.  In  the present case, however, the majority of  the  Courthas  taken the -view that section 5(1) of the  InvestigationCommission  Act has become unconstitutional by the  date  ofthe  Constitution  in  comparison with	section	 34  of	 theIncome-tax Act as amended in 1948.  It was pointed out	thatsection 47 of the Travancore Act XXIII of 1121 which was thesame  as section 34 of the Income-tax Act as it	 stood	from1939  to 1948 did not undergo any amendment by the  date  ofthe Constitution but continued as be-1270fore  and it is said that this makes a difference.   I	feelconstrained, however, with the utmost respect, to hold, on acareful	 consideration that there is no room for making	 anysuch distinction which is relevant for the purposes if	thisquestion.   Undoubtedly	 it is true that section 34  of	 theIncome-tax Act as it stood prior to 1948 is more restrictivein  its operation than the same section as amended in  1948.But  I am unable to see how the class falling under  section5(11)  of  the	Investigation Commission Act  is  still	 notdifferent  from that which falls within amended	 section  34of the Income-tax Act.  Under	 section 5 (1) of the Investigation  Commission	 Actthe  requirement is that the Central Government	 has  "primafacie  reasons	for  believing	that  a	 person	 has  to   asubstantial  extent evaded payment of taxation	on  income".This is quite different from the criterion applicable  underthe amended section 34 of the Income-tax Act.  In the  firstplace, section 34 of the Income-tax Act relates to cases  ofevasion	  however   small,  while  section   5(1)   of	 theInvestigation  Commission  Act relates only  to	 large-scaleevaders	 comprised  within the term  "substantial  evasion".Secondly,  the belief of the Government as to the  existenceof evasion need not satisfy any rigorous standard because itneed  not be based on any material directly  connected	withthe suspected evasion.	It is enough if it is a "prima faciereason to believe" which having regard to the scheme of	 theAct  would  cover cases in which tell-tale  appearances	 maycall for probing and effective investigation.  This may wellbe no more than "well-grounded reason to suspect".  This  isquite  different  from the standard of "reason	to  believe"required  of the Income-tax Officer under section 34 of	 theIncome-tax Act.	 "Prima facie reason to believe" and "reasonto believe" are as different from each other as "prima facieproof"	and  "proof".	Therefore  "reason  to	believe"  issomething  definitely  higher  than  "reason  to   suspect".Indeed	it  is difficult to compare the	 standards  requiredunder	the  two  sections.   Though  no  doubt	 the   powerexercisable  by the Central Government under,, section	5(1)of the1271Investigation  Commission  Act and that exercisable  by	 theIncome-tax  Officer under section 34 of the  Income-tax	 Acthave  this in common that both have reference to "reason  tobelieve", the standard of belief and the basis of belief  isexpressed  in  such  different terminology that	 it  is	 notpossible to compare the two and equate the two as being	 thesame.	Nor indeed can it be posited that every case of	 theclass comprised in section 5(1) of the Investigation Commis-sion  Act  must necessarily fall within section	 34  of	 theIncome-tax Act. Apart,	 however,  from any question as	 to  the  comparisonbetween	 the two sections and as to the standards and  basisof  the	 belief required, once it is accepted (as  has	beendone in the Travancore Appeals(1) ) that substantial evasionis  a  definite legal standard determinative of	 a  distinctclass,	it is clear that the class comprised  thereunder  isnot  identical with the class comprised under section 34  ofthe,  Income-tax  Act.	In the alternative, it is  a  selectgroup  of  a wider class.  If the smaller grouping is  on  arational  basis relevant to the policy of the Act, it  wouldform a distinct class by itself for purposes of article 14.It  is	necessary at this stage to bear in mind	 the  entirescope  of  the	Investigation Commission  Act  in  order  todetermine  what	 the  class is	which  is  contemplated	 andcovered	 by  it.  Five main features may be noticed  of	 thescheme of the Investigation Commission Act.  (1)	  It  relates only to those in respect of  whom	 theGovernment  have ".prima facie reason to believe that  therehas been substantial evasion of tax".  (2)	  The	belief	does  not  result  straightaway	  inproceedings for reassessment (unlike under section 34 of theIncome-tax  Act)  but the question  of	reassessment  (i.e.,reopening  of the assessment) depends on investigation	intothe  correctness  of  that belief.  The first  step  in	 thescheme	 is  section  5(2)  which  contemplates	  that	 theinvestigation may result in substantial(1) A.	Thangal Kunju Musaliar v. Authorised official  I.T.,[1955] 2 S.C.R. 1196.1272evasion	 not being revealed.  If so the further	 proceedingswould  be  dropped  on a report by the	Commission  to	thateffect.	 Hence no reassessment starts in such a case. (3) An effective procedure for investigation is provided tobring out all the necessary and relevant facts and  materialto substantiate the evasion and quantum thereof (4) Proceedings  for  reassessment are taken  only  on	 theemergence  of such material and on a report to	that  effectand that too on a further direction by the Government as  tothe  exact nature of the proceedings to be taken and  as  tothe exact period to be covered falling within the limits  of31st  December, 1938 and 1st September, 1948. (See  sections8(2) and 5(3) of the Investigation Commission Act). (5) A	reference  could be made by the	 Government  to	 theCommission  only  up to a specified  date  line	 statutorilydetermined. If  all these facts which are essential part of the  schemeunder the Investigation Commission Act are borne in mind  itbecomes	 apparent that the class contemplated under  section5(1) of the Investigation Commission Act for reassessment istotally	 different  from that which could be got  at  eitherunder  section 34 of the Income-tax Act as it stood  between1939  and 1948 or as it stands since 1948.  One has only  tocompare the provisions in the Income-tax Act relating to themeans  by  which the normal income-tax authorities  can	 getinformation  or	 obtain	 material  which  might	 lead  to  areopening of the assessment under section 34 of the  Income-tax  Act  to appreciate that the  class	 contemplated  undersection	 5(1) of the Investigation Commission Act cannot  bethe same.  The only provisions in the income-tax law for thepurpose	 are  sections 37, 38 and 39 of the  Incometax	Act.The  primary scheme of the Income-tax Act is that the  basicmaterials  for	the  assessment	 are  the  returns  and	 theaccounts  or other evidence to be furnished by the  assesseehimself	 (sections 22 and 23 of the Income-tax Act)  or	 thechecking material that may be available from the returns andthe accounts1273of other assessees who have transactions with this assessee.It  may	 also  consist of information  received	 from  otherpublic	authorities,  etc., as well as	the  examination  ofpersons appearing to have interconnected transactions.	 TheIncome-tax   Officer  has  not	the  power  to	probe	intosuspicious   features  or  obtain  and	seize  material	  inverification  or support thereof.  All that normally he	 cando, where there is room for grave suspicion is to reject theaccounts  and  make  his assessment on the  basis  of  "bestjudgment"  ,(see section 23(4) of the Income-tax Act)  whichcannot	be  sustained if it is a wild guess  based  on	meresuspicion.   Now,  the	whole scheme  of  the  InvestigationCommission Act is obviously inspired by the realisation thatthe normal machinery available to the Income-tax Officer forthe  reassessment  of large scale suppressed income  is	 notadequate.   All	 the same, the	Legislature  realising	thatdrastic	 investigation	into  the affairs  of  assessees  onseemingly  well grounded suspicions might result in  seriousencroachment  of personal liberties, has not chosen to	vestthe Income-tax Officer with any such powers of investigationand has confined this drastic procedure to evasion of incomeduring	the period commencing 1st January, 1939 to  the	 1stSeptember,  1948  (vide	 sections  8(2)	 and  5(3)  of	 theInvestigation Commission Act) and limited the same to  casesof substantial evasion.	 In considering, therefore, what  isthe  ambit of the class contemplated by section 5(1) of	 theInvestigation  Commission Act, it is necessary	to  rememberthese  features	 of the scheme.	 It would  follow  that	 theclass comprised in section 5 (1) is the class of substantialevaders	 -whose evasion appeared 'to the Government to	callfor  a high-powered machinery for  effective  investigation,not available to an ordinary Income-tax Officer	 functioningunder section 34 of the Income-tax Act.	 So understood it isquite	clear,	to  my	mind,  that  section  5(1)  of	 theInvestigation  Commission  Act relates to  a  class  totallydifferent  from what can be brought in under -section 34  ofthe  Income-tax	 Act as it, either stood before,  or  standsafter, 1948.  That this class was1274really contemplated to be distinct is also indicated by	 thefollowing  provision  of section 8(4) of  the  InvestigationCommission Act.  "No  proceedings  taken  in pursuance	 of  such  direction(direction  made under section 8(2) for reassessment)  shallbe  a bar to the initiation of proceedings under section  34of the Indian Income-tax Act".  This	seems  to  indicate the	 possibility  of  concurrentassessment  proceedings as against any	particular  assesseeunder section 34 of the Income-tax Act as also under section8(2) of the Investigation Commission Act.  The idea  appearsto  be that section 34 proceedings may go on in	 respect  ofsuch  income of the assessee the escaping of which comes  tothe  knowledge of the officer by the normal  procedure,	 andthat the reassessment under the Investigation Commission Actis expected to be in respect of such evaded income which  isto  be discovered only as a result of regular and  effectiveinvestigation.  It  has been suggested in the course of arguments that  noobjection   could  be  taken  to  Government   taking	onlysufficient  powers for investigation in	 appropriate  cases,without	 any  question	arising	 as  to	 discrimination	  orclassification	but that this cannot justify  discriminatoryprocedure  as  regards actual reassessment.  That  raises  adifferent aspect of the matter which will be presently dealtwith. Assuming  however  that  substantial  evaders	contemplatedunder section 5(1) of the Investigation Commission Act	fallalso within the larger class of evaders who fall within	 theclass contemplated by section 34 of the Income-tax Act as itstands,	 what  follows?	 The selective group  under  section5(1) of the Investigation Commission Act is determined	withreference  to  the criteria (1) that  they  are	 substantialevaders	 of  income-tax,  and (2) that	they  are  assesseeswithin the period 1939 to 1948 which is well-known to be theperiod of war profits and black-marketing and in respect  ofwhom  the Government get information before  1st  September,1948,  justifying investigation.  This is by itself a  well-defined class and the1275classification has a reasonable relation to the object to beachieved, viz., the catching up of the escaped	black-marketwar  profits, for assessment.  It is to be assumed that	 theGovernment   would  have  made	their  references   to	 theInvestigation  Commission of all the cases of persons  aboutwhom  they have the requisite belief or	 information  before1st  September,	 1948.	If there are any war  profiteers  ofthat  period against whom there was no information  by	thenand  against  whom information becomes available  later,  itwill  be probably found that the information so received  isnot  such  as to enable the ordinary Income-tax	 Officer  torope  him in.  It may turn out that he has evaded  once	 forall.   But  even if, in some cases,  the  Incometax  Officercould by the ordinary process get the escaped income of suchassessees for reassessment, that by itself is no ground	 forthinking that a classification of substantial war profiteerswho  have  evaded  income-tax and  against  whom  there	 wasinformation up to a specified date is not in itself a  validclassification.	 It is well-recognised that a classificationotherwise reasonable is not invalid by reason of the classi-fication not being comprehensive.In  Joseph  Patsone v. Commonwealth of	Pennsylvania(1)	 theSupreme	 Court	of the United States of	 America  laid	downthat- "a  state  may classify with reference to the	evil  to  beprevented, and that if the class discriminated against is orreasonably might be considered to define those from whom theevil mainly is to be feared, it properly may be picked	out.A. lack of abstract symmetry does not matter.  The  questionis a practical one dependent upon experience............. Itis  not enough to invalidate the law that others may do	 thesame thing and go unpunished, if, as a matter of fact, it isfound that the danger is characteristic of the class named".  Again	 in  West Coast Hotel Co. v. Ernest  Parrish(2)	 thesame Court stated-  "This Court has frequently held that the legisla- (1) 282 U.S. 138, 144; 58 L. Ed. 539, 543.(2)  300 U.S. 379, 400: 81 L.Ed. 703, 718.1611276tive authority, acting within its proper field, is not boundto  extend  it's  regulation to all  cases  which  it  mightpossibly  reach.   The	legislature 'is	 free  to  recognizedegrees of harm and it may confine its restrictions to thoseclasses	 of cases where the need is deemed to be  clearest'.If 'the law presumably hits the evil where it is most  felt,it is not to be overthrown because there are other instancesto  which  it  might  have  been  applied'.   There  is	  no'doctrinaire  requirement'  that the legislation  should  becouched in all embracing terms".   It  is  substantially  the  above  view  of	 permissibleclassification for the purposes of article 14 that has	beenrecognised  by	this Court in Sakhawat Ali v. The  State  ofOrissa(1) where this Court laid down as follows:  "Legislation	enacted for the achievement of a  particularobject or purpose need not be all embracing.  It is for	 thelegislature  to determine what categories it  would  embracewithin	the scope of legislation and merely because  certaincategories  which would stand on the same footing  as  thosewhich are covered by the legislation are left out would	 notrender	legislation  which has been enacted  in	 any  mannerdiscriminatory	and  violative	of  the	 fundamental   rightguaranteed by article 14 of the Constitution".  Even	if  therefore section 34 of the	 Income-tax  Act  asamended in 1948 is wide enough in its ambit to catch up	 anyand every case which could be dealt with under section	5(1)of   the  Investigation	 Commission  Act,  it  is  still   adistinctive and selective group out of a larger group and isa class by itself determined with reference to the  criteriaabove	 indicated.    It   is	 no   objection	   to	 theconstitutionality  of that classification that some  out  ofthem  who may have been left out may be-taken up  later	 forbeing proceeded against under the amended section 34 of	 theIncome-tax  Act.  The class falling within the scope of	 theInvestigation	Commission  Act	 is  a	class  closed	withreference  to  the date-line, 1st September,  1948,  and  itappears	 to me difficult to envisage the possibility of	 anymember (1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1004, 1010.1277of  that  class	 being available to be	dealt  with  by	 theIncome-tax  Officer  under  the amended section	 34  of	 theIncome-tax  Act	 which came into operation from	 after	thatdate-line except by imputing mala fides to the Government inthe   selective	  application  of  section   5(1)   of	 theInvestigation Commission Act.  It is true that the date-linewas  changed  by  legislature from 30th June,  1948  to	 1stSeptember, 1948.  But it was an essential part of the  wholescheme of the legislation that there was to be no  referencebeyond	a dateline to be fixed by the legislature, so as  tolimit  the  application	 of the Act.  Hence it	is  also  anattribute of the class contemplated by the Act.  I  am	 aware	that there are observations  in	 Suraj	MallMohta's	 case(1)  and Shree Meenakshi Mills'  case(2)  whichappear not to have accepted the idea of the class being withreference to a date-line.  But the actual decision in  SurajMall  Mohta's case(1) was based on the	distinction  betweensection	  5(4)	and  section  5(1)  of	 the   InvestigationCommission Act and the consequential parallelism between theclass  falling	under  section 5(4),  of  the  InvestigationCommission Act and section 34(1) of the Income-tax Act.	  InMeenakshi  Mills'  case(2) the decision was  rested  on	 theparallelism  between  section  5(1)  of	 the   InvestigationCommission  Act and section 34(1) of the Income-tax  Act  asamended in 1954.  The decision in neither of these cases wasbased  on any final determination of the scope of the  classcontemplated by section 5(1) of the Investigation CommissionAct.   The  actual decisions in those cases  are  of  coursebinding	 but  not  necessarily all  the	 reasoning  therein.Besides, with great respect, the relevancy of the date-line-in  section  5(1)  as  having  been  related  to  the	thencontemplated  date for the lapse, in 1948, of  the  controlsunder  the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers)  Act,	1946(Act  XXIV  of	1946) was not  noticed.	  The  principle  ofSakhawat Alis case(3) was not also by then laid down by thisCourt  (that  case-having been decided	later  in  November,1954). (1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 448.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 787.(3) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1004, 1010,1278   Further,  even if the date-line is not an essential	partof   the   classification   under  section   5(1)   of	 theInvestigation  Commission  Act,	 the  other  four  essentialfeatures of the scheme of the class contemplated in  section5(1)  as  set out by me above are by  themselves  enough  toconstitute  a complete and rational differentiation  of	 theclass  comprised  under section 5(1)  of  the  InvestigationCommission Act from that under section 34(1) of the  Income-tax  Act  as amended in 1948.  If on such  a  classificationsome cases of substantial evasion happen to have escaped themachinery  of the Investigation Commission Act,	 that  wouldnot invalidate the classification on the principle  acceptedin  Sakhawat  Ali's  case(1).  I am in any  case  unable  tovisualise  the reasonable possibility of any person  fallingwithin	the category contemplated under section 5(1) of	 theInvestigation	Commission   Act,   being   taken   up	 forreassessment  under  section  34 of the	 Income-tax  Act  asamended	  in   1948  and  consequently	 of   two   parallelreassessment proceedings relating to such persons  remainingpending	 by  the 26th January, 1950, so as  to	bring  aboutdiscriminatory operation between them and to render  section5(1)  of  the Investigation Commission Act  ultra  Vires  inrespect	 of  such  pending  matters.   It  appears  to	 me,therefore, that section 5(1) of the Investigation CommissionAct  and  the other sections following thereupon  cannot  bedeclared  unconstitutional  on	the  ground  of	 absence  ofreasonable classification.  One  other matter has been relied upon as being  relevant.It  was pointed out that the amendment of section 34 of	 theIncome-tax  Act in 1948 was simultaneous with the  amendmentof  section  5(3)  of  the  Investigation  Commission	Act,extending the time for a reference under section 5(1) by theCentral	 Government up to the 1st September, 1948.   It	 hasbeen suggested that this clearly shows the intention of	 thelegislature  to	 the effect that after	the  1st  September,1948,  all cases which might have fallen under section	5(1)of  the	 Investigation Commission Act are left to  be  dealtwith under section 34 of the(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1004, 1010.1279 Act  as amended.  It appears to me with respect that  thereis  no	basis  for this inference.  On	the  other  hand  itappears to me (if what I have said above as being the schemeof  the	 Investigation Commission Act is correct)  that	 thelegislature  deliberately  limited the	application  of	 theInvestigation  Commission Act by a date-line, realising	 theseriousness of its continued operation.	 It did not want  toperpetuate  the drastic provisions thereof to any new  casesin  view of the fact that the official war period ended	 andcontrols  had been lessened by the above date-line,  if	 nottotally	  abolished.	It   may  be   mentioned   that	  byproclamation,  the war situation was formally terminated  asfrom the 1st April, 1946, and that the Control Orders  underthe Defence of India Act ceased to be operative from the 1stOctober,  1946, and that the Essential	Supplies  (TemporaryPowers)	 Act, 1946, was passed in substitution thereof	This1946  Act  was intended originally to be in  operation	onlyuntil  March,  1948. (See Joylal Agarwala v.  The  State(1).The date-line of 1st September, 1948, in section 5(1)  seemsto be related to this situation.  It appears to me that withthe  full  consciousness  that any new	cases  of  the	samecategory,  if any, are not likely to be caught up under	 thenormal procedure, the legislature merely purported by virtueof  the	 amended section 34 of the Incometax Act  to  removecertain	 lacuna	 in  the normal machinery,  which  had	beennoticed	 and reported upon by the income-tax  administrationand  by	 the  Investigation Commission,	 with  reference  tosection 34 as it stood between 1939 to 1948. (See  paragraph22  of	the General Report of the  Income-tax  InvestigationCommission issued in 1948 making its recommendations for theimprovement  of the machinery at page 8 of that	 report	 andAppendix  A  thereto  which would  show	 that  amendment  ofsection 34 was not connected with the extension of the	datefor   making   references   under  section   5(1)   of	 theInvestigation  Commission Act).	 I am unable, therefore,  toassume that the simultaneous enactment of section 34 of	 theIncometax Act and the amendment of Investigation Com-(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 127, 130.1280mission Act in 1948 have a bearing on the question at issue.  Undoubtedly	the  re-assessment  proceedings	 under	 theInvestigation Commission Act appear to deprive the  assesseeof  certain  procedural advantages.  He is  deprived  of  anappeal on facts to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner	 andto  the	 Income,-tax Appellate Tribunal.  He  is  given	 theright  of  appeal  only	 on points of  law  by	means  of  areference  to the High Court.  But such reference is  to  beheard  by a Bench of not less than three Judges.  Now,	oncethere is a valid classification the nature and extent of theactual	discrimination	which results under  the  scheme  oflegislation  relating  thereto	is  largely  a	question  ofpolicy,	 which	the courts have nothing to do  with,  exceptpossibly where the discrimination has no reasonable relationto the policy and purpose of the classification.  The policyunderlying  the Investigation Commission Act is, as  alreadystated, to catch up for reassessment large scale evasions ofincome-tax  of the war period.	It -is obvious	that  havingregard	to the magnitude of the interests that would be	 in-volved	therein,  it was quite legitimate that	the  mattersconcerned  therewith,  should  be  entrusted  to  a  highly-qualified  and	high-powered  authority,  and  not  to	 theordinary  machinery.   No  grievance  can  be  made  if	 thelegislature  thought fit not to entrust	 the  responsibilityfor  fact-finding to the normal machinery  involving  lesserqualifications	 and  experience.   It	is  true  that	 theinvestigation  might  have been placed in the bands  of	 oneauthority  and the fact finding on the material so  gatheredin  the	 hands of another authority or that at	least  theremight have been provided one appeal on facts also to a high-placed	authority like the High Court.	It may	also  appearsomewhat  disquieting  that the same body is  invested	bothwith  the  power  of investigation and the  power  of  fact-finding and that there is no appeal provided as against	 itsfindings on facts.  But these are all matters of policy	 andcannot be said to be either unreasonable or unrelated to thepurpose and policy of the classification.  Investigation  isa com--1281prehensive  term and it will be seen that the  investigationprocedure itself under the Act is in two stages, one  beforethe  authorised	 official  at  which  the  assessee  is	 notentitled  to  be  represented  and  the	 other	before	 theInvestigation  Commission at which the assessee is  entitledto  be represented by a pleader, a registered accountant  oran  authorised employee (vide section 7(3) and	the  provisothereto).  These two stages may be taken roughly, though notnecessarily, to indicate two parts of the investigation, (1)the  process of probing into the evasion and collecting	 thematerial  in support of it, and (2) arriving at	 conclusionswith  reference to the material so collected and  presented.The  latter is the judicial part at which the Commission  isdirected under section 7(2) to follow the principles of	 theIndian	Evidence Act and to give the assessee  a  reasonableopportunity  of rebutting evidence and generally to  act  inaccordance  with  the principles of  natural  justice.	 Theprocedure  relating  to	 this  stage  is  assimilated  to  ajudicial  enquiry in a larger measure than is the  procedurebefore	the  Income-tax Officer or the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner,  in respect of whose proceedings there  is  noprovision  that they must follow as far as  practicable	 theprinciples  of the Indian Evidence Act, (See section  23  ofthe Income-tax Act).  It is wellsettled that the  assessmentproceedings  by the Income-tax Officer under section  23  ofthe Incometax Act-and hence also under section 34  thereforenot regulated by the technical standards of evidence  thoughof course they cannot be based on caprice or suspicion.	  Itwould, therefore, appear that according to the scheme of theInvestigation  Commission  Act,	 the  judicial	part  of  itapproximates  much  more  to  judicial	standards  than	 theassessment  proceedings	 by the income-tax  authorities	 andthat  though in theory there is a combination of  the  func-tions of an investigator and the judge in the  InvestigationCommission,  in	 normal	 practice it is likely	to  be	keptdistinct  by  the appointment of an authorised	official  toconduct the first portion.  It is also to be remembered thatthe combination of the investigator1282and  judge  is	inherent  even	in  the	 normal	  income-taxmachinery  where  the Income-tax Officer and  the  AssistantIncome-tax   Commissioner  are	in  the	 nature	 of   Judgesinterested in their own cause. -  It  has been suggested that there is something opposed  toordinary canons of judicial procedure or natural justice  inthe  matter  of making relevant documents available  to	 theassesee	  in  the  proceedings	before	 the   InvestigationCommission.   It appears to me, with respect, that  this  isbased on a misapprehension.  It is true that section 7(4) ofthe Investigation Commission Act says:  "No  person  shall be entitled to inspect,  call  for,  orobtain	copies	of, any documents, statement  or  papers  ormaterials  furnished to, obtained by or produced before	 theCommission  or	any authorised official in  any	 proceedingsunder this Act; but the Commission, and after the Commissionhas   ceased  to  exist	 ,such	authority  as  the   CentralGovernment   may  in  this  behalf  appoint,  may,  in	 itsdiscretion, allow such inspection and furnish such copies toany   person",	and  section  6(8)  of	 the   InvestigationCommission Act says:  "All material gathered by the Commission or the authorisedofficial and materials accompanying the reference under sub-section	 (1) of section 5 may be brought on record  at	suchstage as the Commission may think fit".  But  these  provisions  have to be  read  subject  to	 theproviso	 to section 7(4) and to the opening part of  section7(2)  of the Investigation Commission Act.  The	 proviso  tosection 7(4) is as follows:   "Provided  that, for the purpose of enabling	 the  personwhose  case  or	 points	 in  whose  case  is  or  are  beinginvestigated  to  rebut any evidence brought on	 the  recordagainst	 him, he shall, on application made in	this  behalfand  on payment of such fees as may be prescribed  by  Rulesmade  under this Act, be furnished with certified copies  ofdocuments,  statements, papers and materials brought on	 therecord by the Commission".Further, the opening part of section 7(2) says:1283"In  making an investigation under clause (b) of section  3,the  Commission shall act in accordance with the  principlesof  natural justice, shall follow as far as practicable	 theprinciples of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, and shall	givethe  person  whose case is being investigated  a  reasonableopportunity  of	 rebutting  any	 evidence  adduced   againsthim...............   The  above	 provisions   preclude	 thepossibility  of	 the Commission pushing in  into  the  finalrecord	on  which  the report is to be based  any  ex  partematerial  to  which the assessee has had no  access.   Thesealso preclude the possibility of depriving him of the use ofany  relevant material in the Commission's possession  whichthe assessee may call for.  All that section 7(4) implies isthat the assessee is not entitled to a roving inspection  ofthe material gathered by the Investigation Commission in thecourse of investigation, which may relate to the affairs  ofvarious	 other persons.	 Such a provision is not opposed  tonatural justice for even in the matter of criminal  judicialtrials the accused is not entitled to a roving inspection ofthe material gathered by the police during investigation. (Imay notice, with very great respect, that the observation inSuraj Mall Mohta's case(1) at page 464 that "the proceedingsbefore	the Income-tax Officer are judicial proceedings	 and(that	therefore)  all	 the  incidents	 of  such   judicialproceedings  have to be observed, i.e., in other words,	 theassessee  should be entitled to inspect the record  and	 allrelevant  documents"  seems  to have  failed  to  note	thatsection 37(1) specifically limits the judicial character  ofthe proceedings to the purposes covered by sections 193, 196and  228  of the Indian Penal Code and also  that  the	saidsection vests in the Income-tax authorities, the powers of acourt only for specified purposes).  If, therefore' in	viewof  all these circumstances the Legislature thought  fit  toentrust	 the combined responsibility for  investigation	 andfact-finding  to a single high-powered and highly  qualifiedbody consisting of three members of whom one is or has	beena Judge of the High Court and made their findings of (1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 448. 1621621284 fact  final,  without providing for access to	the  regularheirarchy  of  appeals to the Assistant Commissioner  and  aBench  of two members of the Income-tax Appellate  Tribunal,there  appears to be nothing unreasonable therein.   On	 theother	hand  there  are  counter,balancing  features	withreference  to  the  composition of the	Commission  and	 thestatutory  standards  by  which the  judicial  part  of	 itsproceedings have to be governed.  I am, therefore, unable tofeel that the discrimination brought about in the  procedurerelating  to assessment calls for any such adverse  reactionas  to	be  a  reasonable  basis  for  founding	 thereon  aninference  of  unconstitutional inequality.  However,  as  Ihave  already  said above, this appears to be  ultimately  aquestion of policy.  Once the classification is found to  bejustified  and reasonably related to the clearly  underlyingpolicy	of the Investigation Commission Act, I am unable  tofeel  that section 5(1) of the Investigation Commission	 Actcan  be	 struck	 down  as ultra vires  in  relation  to	 itssupposed concurrent operation with section 34 of the Income-tax Act as amended in 1948.  I hold, therefore, that section5(1)  of  the Investigation Commission Act was	not  hit  byarticle 14 of the Constitution notwithstanding amendment  ofsection	 34  of	 the  Income-tax Act in	 1948  and  that  itcontinued to be valid. On  all other points urged on behalf of the petitioners,  Iagree  with the view expressed in the judgment delivered  bymy  learned  brother  Justice  Bhagwati	 on  behalf  of	 themajority of the Court.	It is therefore, unnecessary for  meto deal with them.  In  the  result,  in my opinion,  this  petition  must  bedismissed  with	 costs	except	as  regards  the  incompletereassessment  for 1942-43 for which the	 learned  Solicitor-General	 has  given an undertaking not to  proceed  with  itunder the provisions of the Investigation Commission Act, asstated in the judgment of my learned brother.			   ORDERBY  THE	 COURT:	 In  accordance with  the  Judgment  of	 themajority  the petition is allowed and it is ordered  that  awrit of certiorari do issue quashing the1285report of the Income-tax Investigation Commission dated	 the26th August 1952 and the assessment orders of the Income-TaxOfficer for the years 1940-41, 1941-42 and 1943-44 to  1948-49,  and  that a writ of prohibition do	 issue	against	 therespondents restraining them from implementing the  findingsof  the	 investigation Commission with regard  to  the	year1942-43.   The respondents do pay the petitioners' costs  oftheir petition.