PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BIHAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:BASAWAN SINGHDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/03/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BOSE, VIVIANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  500		  1959 SCR  195ACT:Criminal  Law-Byibe-Trap-Testimony  of	the  raiding  Party-Reliability-Independent	 corroboration-Whether-	  essential-Whether	  circumstantial  evidence  sufficient-Evidence	  ofMagistrate  interested in the trap-Evidence  of	 accomplicesand partisans-Reliability.HEADNOTE:The respondent, a sub-inspector of police, was charged	withacceptance of Rs. 100 as a bribe from two persons, B and  P,for dropping a case which he had instituted against B  underthe  Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act,	 1946.	 Theprosecution case was that when the demand for the bribe madeby  the respondent could not be avoided, B and P  approachedthe  Anticorrosive Department, and it was arranged that	 therespondent  should be paid at the police station  the  bribemoney in the shape of currency notes produced by B and P andinitialled  by M, who was in charge of	the  Anti-CorruptionDepartment,  and that M, along with a Deputy  Superintendentof the Department and a first class Magistrate, should be atthe  police  station  at the time  of  payment,	 dressed  asordinary  villagers ; that as soon as the amounts  in  noteswere received by the respondent the officers disclosed theiridentity, that thereupon the respondent tried to throw	awaythe  currency  notes but that as a result  of  the  officerscatching hold of his hands the notes were found in his	handexcept	one  which  was missing and that as a  result  of  asearch	made in the presence of two search  witnesses  laterthe  missing note was also found.  The respondent was  triedby  the Special judge who accepted the prosecution  evidenceand  found  him guilty of the offence under s.	161  of	 theIndian Penal Code.  On appeal to the High Court the  learnedsingle	judge  who  disposed of the  appeal  held  that	 therespondent  could not be convicted because (1) there was  noindependent  witness  to  support the  testimony  of  the  "raiding	 party " consisting of the two bribegivers  and	 thethree  officers, (2) the search witnesses did not prove	 thetransaction nor were they present at the time of the  occur-rence,	and  (3) the decision in Rao Shiv Bahadur  Singh  v.State of Vindhya Pradesh, [1954] S.C.R. 1098, had laid	downan  invariable	rule  that  in	cases  of  this	 nature	 thetestimony  of those witnesses who form what is called "	 theraiding party " must be discarded, unless that testimony  iscorroborated  by independent witnesses.	 The State  appealedby special leave :Held,  (1)  that the evidence of the  two  search  witnessesprovided independent corroboration in a material  particularto196the  testimony	of the raiding party,  because	the  missingcurrency note, one of the series testified to by the raidingparty,	could be found where it was actually found  only  ifthe testimony of the raiding party was true.(2)that corroboration need not be by direct evidence  thatthe  accused  committed	 the crime; it	is  sufficient	eventhough	it  is	merely by  circumstantial  evidence  of	 hisconnection with the crime.Rameshwar v. The State of Rajasthan, [1952] S. C. R. 377,followed.(3)that the decision in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh v. State ofVindhya	 Pradesh, [1954] S.C.R. 1908, has not laid down	 anyinflexible  rule that the evidence of the witnesses  of	 theraiding party must be discarded in all cases in the  absenceof any independent corroboration.The correct rule is that if any of the witnesses are  accom-plices,	 their evidence is admissible in law but  the  judgemust  warn the jury of the danger of convicting the  accusedon  the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice ;  if	 thecase  is tried without the aid of a jury, the  judge  shouldindicate in his judgment that he had this rule of caution inmind  and  give reasons for considering	 it  unnecessary  torequire	 corroboration; if, however, the witnesses  are	 notaccomplices but are merely partisan or interested witnesses,who are concerned in the success of the trap, their evidencemust  be  tested  in the same way as  any  other  interestedevidence is tested, and in a proper case, the Court may lookfor independent corroboration before convicting the  accusedperson.	  If a Magistrate puts himself in the position of  apartisan  or interested witness, he cannot claim any  higherstatus and must be treated as any other interested witness.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 134  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and order  dated'January 13, 1955, of the Patna High Court in Criminal AppealNo. 339 of 1953, arising out of the judgment and order datedMay  22, 1953, of the Court of the Special Judge at Gaya  inSpecial Case No. 3  of 1952.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, A. K. Dutta     andS. P. Varina, for the appellant. H.  J. Umrigar and Ratnaparkhi, A. G., for the respondent.1958.  March 21.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by197 S. K. DAS J.-This appeal by special leave has been  broughtby  the	 State	of Bihar from the judgment and	order  of  alearned	 single	 Judge	of the High Court  of  Patna,  datedJanuary	 13, 1955, by which the learned Judge set aside	 theconviction   and   sentence  passed  against   the   presentrespondent Basawan Singh and acquitted him of a charge unders.  161,  Indian  Penal Code, on which charge  he  had	beenconvicted  by  the  learned Special Judge  of  Gaya  by	 hisjudgment and order, dated May 22, 1953.It is necessary to state here very briefly the salient factsof  the	 prosecution  case.  One  Bhagwan  Das	(prosecutionwitness	 no. 7) had a ration shop at a short  distance	frompolice	station Arwal in the district of Gaya.	One  of	 thepersons entitled to receive rationed articles from the	saidshop  was Mahabir Prasad (prosecution witness no.  10),	 whowas  a	brother	 of a businessman  named  Parmeshwar  Prasad(prosecution witness no. 11).  Mahabir Prasad held a  rationcard  for  ten units, and on October 4, 1951,  he  purchasedfive maunds of wheat on the strength of his ration card fromthe  shop  of Bhagwan Das.  A cash memo was issued  for	 thepurpose,  and  the sale was entered in the register  of	 theshop.  Mahabir Prasad carried the wheat in four bags on	 twoponies.	  He  himself went ahead on a cycle and	 the  poniesfollowed him.  A gentleman named Ram Singhasan Singh, statedto be the Secretary of Arwal Thana Congress Committee,	sentan  information	 to the police station to  the	effect	thatBhagwan	 Das  had sold the wheat in what was  called  the  "black  market  ". On receipt of	 this  information,  BasawanSingh, who is respondent before us and who was at that	timesubinspector of police attached to the said police  station,instituted  a  case  under s. 7 of  the	 Essential  Supplies(Temporary  Powers)  Act,  1946,  against  Bhagwan  Das	 andMahabir Prasad.	 He seized the wheat which was being carriedon  the	 two  ponies, went to the shop of  Bhagwan  Das	 andquestioned  him about the transaction.	Bhagwan	 Das  deniedthe   charge   of  blackmarketing  and	alleged	  that	 thetransaction  was  a  bona  fide sale  on  the  strength	 andauthority of a ration198card.  He showed the duplicate copy of the cash memo and theentry	in  the	 sale  register	 to  the  respondent.	 Therespondent  then checked the stock of wheat in thee shop  ofBhagwan	 Das  and  found that the  stock  tallied  with	 therelevant  entry	 in the, stock register.   In  the  meantimeMahabir	 Prasad who had been sent for also came to the	shopwith his cash memo and ration card.  These were shown to therespondent  who,  however,  arrested both  Bhagwan  Das	 andMahabir Prasad and took them to the police, station.  It wasalleged	 that at the police station the respondent  demandedRs.  500  as a bribe from Mahabir  Prasad.   Mahabir  Prasadcould not pay the amount, but said that he would consult hisbrother Parmeshwar Prasad and the latter would come and	 payto the respondent whatever sum was thought necessary.	BothBhagwan	 Das and Mahabir Prasad were then released on  bail.On the next day Bhagwan Das was called to the police stationand  a	bribe Rs. 500 was demanded from him  also.   It	 wasalleged that the respondent told Bhagwan Das that if he	 didnot pay the amount, the respondent would harass him; but  ifBhagwan	 Das paid the amount, the respondent would submit  afinal  report  and  no case would be  started  against	him.Bhagwan	 Das  expressed	 his inability to pay  such  a,	 bigamount	and  it was alleged that ultimately the	 amount	 wasreduced	 to Rs. 300.  Bhagwan Das, however, did not  pay  itfor  some  time,  and  the prosecution	case  was  that	 therespondent took wheat from the shop of Bhagwan Das,  withoutpayment of any price, between the date October 26, 1951, andNovember  30, 19 1 ;in this way, seven maunds and ten  seersof  wheat it was alleged, were taken by the respondent	fromthe shop of Bhagwan Das, though the sales were noted in	 thesale register in the names of various persons.	On  December1, 1951, the respondent, it was stated, agreed to accept Rs.50  from Bhagwan Das in addition to the wheat already  takenby him, in full satisfaction of the demand of Rs. 300.When Bhagwan Das found that he had no other alternative	 butto pay the amount demanded by the199respondent,  he	 decided  to  approach	the  Anti-CorruptionDepartment of the Government of Bihar.	One S. P.  Mukherji,Deputy	Secretary to the Government of Bihar, -was  then  incharge	of the Department.  Bhagwan Das met Mukherji on	 twodates,	December 3, 1951, and December 5, 1951, and filed  awritten	 petition  to  him.  Mukherji sent  for	 his  DeputySuperintendent	of  Police,  a	gentleman  named  DharnidharMisra,	 who  was  also	 attached  to  the   Anti-CorruptionDepartment.   Bhagwan  Das  produced  before  Mukherji	fiveGovernment  currency  notes of Rs. 10 each, the	 numbers  ofwhich were noted in his written petition.  Mukherji put	 hisinitials  on these notes and then returned them	 to  BhagwanDas.   Mukherji	 then requested the District  Magistrate  ofPatna to depute a first class Magistrate, and one Rudra	 DevSahai  was so deputed.	It was settled that on	December  8,1951,  at about 7 p.m. the bribe money in the shape  of	 theinitialled notes would be paid to the respondent, and it wasarranged that Bhagwan Das would meet the officers from Patnaon the canal road from Patna to Arwal at some distance	fromthe police station.  Nothing, however, happened on  December8,  1951,  because the respondent was away from	 the  policestation.   On  the next day, that is December 9,  1951,	 theofficers  from Patna, namely Mukherji, Misra and Sahai,	 metBhagwan	 Das  at  the appointed place  at  about  6.30	p.m.Bhagwan	 Das then told the officers that  Parmeshwar  Prasadhad  also  arrived there for paying Rs. 50 as bribe  to	 therespondent  for	 the  release of the wheat  which  had	beenseized	 and  which  was  still	 at  the   police   station.Parmeshwar Prasad was then brought to Mukherji at about 7.30p.m.  Mukherji	questioned him and  recorded  his  statementwhich  was  endorsed  by the Magistrate,  Rudra	 Dev  Sahai.Parmeshwar  Prasad then produced five notes of Rs. 10  each,the numbers of which were also noted in the statement.	 Thenotes  were  then initialled by Mukherji.  After  this,	 theparty  went  to the police station.  The  officers  who	 haddressed	 themselves  as ordinary villagers any posed  to  berelatives  of Bhagwan Das squatted on the ground a few	feetaway200from  the  verandah  of the quarters  which  the  respondentoccupied, and Bhagwan Das and Parmeshwar Prasad stood on thesteps  of  the	verandah  where	 the  respondent  met  them.Leaving	 out  details,	which  are  not	 necessary  for	 ourpurpose, what happened then was this.  Bhagwan Das paid	 Rs.50  in currency notes which the respondent took in his	lefthand.	Parmeshwar Prasad also paid his amount in  notes  tothe  respondent.   The	officers  were	then  called.	 TheMagistrate and the Deputy Superintendent of Police disclosedtheir  identity,  and  the Deputy  Superintendent  told	 therespondent  that  he had received a bribe.   The  respondenttried  to  throw away the currency notes,  but	the  'DeputySuperintendent	of Police caught hold of his left  palm	 andthe  Magistrate caught hold of his right hand.	There was  ascuffle,  and  the  respondent was  brought  down  from	 theverandah  and was taken to an open place south-west  of	 thepolice station.	 Nine currency notes were found 'in the handof  the respondent and they tallied with the  numbers  noteddown earlier.  One currency note was not found till a searchwas  made by means of a petromax lantern in the presence  oftwo search witnesses, Ganesh Prasad (prosecution witness no.5)  and Janki Sao (prosecution witness no. 4).	 The  searchwas made at about 9 p.m. and the missing note was found in acrumpled  condition  in	 the  southwestern  corner  of	 theverandah.  A report of the whole incident was then  preparedby  the Deputy Superintendent of Police and handed  over  tothe officer in charge of Arwal police station.	The case wasthen  investigated into by another Deputy Superintendent  ofPolice	one  Hasan  of	Aurangabad.   After  completion	  ofinvestigation  the  Deputy  Inspector  General	of   Police,C.I.D.,	  accorded  sanction  to  the  prosecution  of	 therespondent on April 1, 1952.  Thereafter, the respondent wastried by the Special Judge of Gaya who, by his judgment	 andorder dated May 22, 1953, found the respondent guilty of theoffence	 under s. 161, Indian Penal Code, and sentenced	 himto rigorous imprisonment for one year only.It may be here stated that the defence of the201respondent  was	 that in the case against  Bhagwan  Das	 andMahabir	 Prasad, he had submitted a final report on  October8, 1951, to the effect that there was a mistake of fact withregard	to  the allegation of black-marketing and  that	 thecase  should be entered as false-', mistake of fact ",	Thisreport was supported by the Inspector of Police,  Jehanabad,and accepted by the Sub-divisional Magistrate on October 19,1951.  The respondent denied that he ever demanded any bribefrom  either  of the two aforesaid persons or  that  he	 hadaccepted as a bribe ten currency notes from Bhagwan Das	 andParmeshwar  Prasad  on December 9, 1951.  It  was  suggestedthat the officers did not actually see what had happened  onthe  steps of the verandah and were, deluded  into  thinkingthat  nine currency notes were recovered from him and,	withregard	to the crumpled note found on the verandah,  it	 wassuggested  that Bhagban Das might have planted it,  when  hebowed down before the respondentThe learned Special judge accepted the prosecution  evidenceas  trustworthy	 and rejected the defences  as	unworthy  ofcredences.Against his conviction the respondent filed an appeal to theHigh  Court  and  the learned single Judge,  who  heard	 theappeal,	 acquitted  the respondent on the main	ground	thatthere was no independent witness to support the testimony ofthe  " raiding party " consisting of the  two  bribe-givers,Bhagwan	 Das and Parmeshwar Prasad, and the two	 Magistratesand the police officer, namely.	 Mukherji, Sahai and  Misra.The learned Judge referred to the decision of this Court  inRao Shiv Bahadur Singh v. State of Vindhya Pradesh (1),	 andhe  expressed  the  view that that  decision  laid  down  aninvariable  rule that in cases of this nature the  testimonyof  those  witnesses who form what is  called  the  "raidingparty"	 must  be  discarded,  unless  that   testimony	  iscorroborated  by independent witnesses.	 He then  posed	 thequestion  if  there were any independent  witnesses  in	 thepresent case, and observed-"  There  are no independent witnesses	on  the	 transactionitself.	 It was submitted, however, that there(1)  [1954] S C R. 1098.26202are  search witnesses and they are independent; indeed	theyare.   But they have proved nothing except this that at	 thequarters of the appellant a ten-rupee note crushed was foundand   a	 few  other  articles.	 They  did  not	 prove	 thetransaction  nor  they	were  present at  the  time  of	 theoccurrence  itself.   The prosecution case depends  for	 allpractical purposes on the evidence of the witnesses who	 aremembers of the raiding party."The  principal	questions which fall for  decision  in	thisappeal	are: (1) whether the learned Judge is right  in	 hisview  that the decision in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh (1),	laysdown any universal or inflexible rule that the testimony  ofwitnesses  who	form the raiding party	must  be  discarded,unless	corroborated by independent witnesses; (2)  if	not,what  is the correct rule with regard to such  testimony  incases  of this nature; and (3) whether the learned Judge  isright in his view that there is no independent corroborationof  the testimony of the witnesses of the raiding  party  inthe present case.  But before we consider these three  ques-tions,	it is advisable to dispose of the findings  of	factwhich  have  been affirmed on appeal or arrived	 at  by	 thelearned	 Judge.	  In  his judgment  the	 learned  Judge	 hasobserved:"  The first point to be determined in this case is  whetherBhagwan	 Das  was in fact, arrested in connection  with	 thecase  under the Essential Supplies (Temporary  Powers)	Act.That  has been well proved and it has not  been	 challenged.It is also established that the appellant did arrest BhagwanDas  as	 well as Mahabir Prasad and that on  that  very	 dayBhagwan Das was released.  It is also well established	thatBhagwan Das had gone to Mr. Mukherji at Patna and related anincident and as a result of that a trap was laid and on	 thealleged	 date of occurrence the three officers, namely,	 Mr.Mukherji,  Mr.	Sahai and Mr. Misra, had gone to  the  Arwalpolice	station followed by the Gorkha Police.	It  is	alsowell   established  that  the  appellant  on  the  date	  ofoccurrence  was	 in  his  quarters  and	 that  it  is	alsoestablished  beyond  doubt that Bhagwan Das  and  Parmeshwarwere with the appellant in his quarters that evening.(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1098.203It  is	also established that the three officers  were	justnear the quarters of the appellant and they were dressed  indhotis,	 kurtas,  etc.,	 like  "dehaties".   It	 is  furtherestablished  that the appellant was caught by Mr. Misra	 andMr. Sahai and in his possession were found the nine notes ofRs. 10 each and that it was established that one Rs. 10 notewas  found  in	the  verandah  of  the	quarters.   It	 is,therefore,  not necessary to discus& the evidence  on  thesepoints	because,  as  I	 have said,  these  facts  are	wellestablished  and  admitted before me in the  course  of	 theargument."It is fairly obvious from the observations quoted above thatthe learned Judge accepted the testimony of the witnesses ofthe  raiding  party  as	 to  the  essential  parts  of	 theprosecution  case and in particular, their evidence  to	 theeffect that nine initialled notes of Rs. 10 each were  foundin  the possession of the respondent; this finding which  istantamount  to	accepting the prosecution  case	 as  correctmilitates against his later observation that in the  absenceof independent corroboration, he cannot accept the testimonyof the witnesses of the raiding party.	We say this  withoutmeaning	 any  disrespect,  but	the  learned  Judge  perhapsthought	 that  the  witnesses  of  the	raiding	 party	wereintrinsically  trustworthy  and gave true evidence,  yet  hebased  his  order of acquittal on what he  thought  was	 theeffect	of  the	 decision in Rao  Shiv	Bahadur	 Singh	(1),namely, the adoption of an inflexible rule, in the words  ofthe learned Judge, " that the evidence of the raiding  partyis  necessarily	 tainted............ and on  their  evidencealone,	it would be difficult to carry the guilt home  "  tothe  respondent.  In two respects on questions of fact,	 thelearned	 Judge expressed a view different from that  of	 thetrial Court: first, with regard to the motive or reason	 forthe  bribe  and secondly, with regard to the purchase  of  7maunds 10 seers of wheat, without payment, between the datesOctober	 26,  1951 to November 30,1951.	 As to	motive,	 thelearned	  Judge	 referred  to  the  circumstance  that	 therespondent had already submitted a final report on(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1098.204October	 8, 1951, which was accepted by	 the  Sub-divisionalMagistrate on October 19, and, therefore, there was no	casepending	 against  Bhagwan  Das and Mahabir  Prasad  and	 themotive	for the bribe could not be what was alleged  by	 theprosecution.   The learned Judge then indulged in  a  highlyspeculative  finding to the effect that the " possession  ofthe nine notes can be reasonably explained by the fact	thathis (the present respondent's) advice was sought for a	landdispute	 between  the relations " (meaning thereby  the	 twoMagistrates  and  the Deputy Superintendent  of	 Police	 whoposed as relations of Bhagwan Das).  This line of  reasoningadopted	 by the learned Judge completely  overlooks  certainsalient facts and circumstances on which the trial Court hadrelied.	 The trial Court had found, on the evidence given inthe case, that Bhagwan Das had no information that the	caseagainst	 him had ended in a final report; besides the  wheatseized	had not been released and Mahabir  Prasad  naturallywanted	the wheat back.	 Then, again, there was	 nothing  toprevent the respondent from demanding a bribe even after thesubmission of a final report, saying that he would otherwiseharass	Bhagwan Das and Mahabir Prasad, and, lastly, it	 wasnobody's case, nor was there any evidence in support of	 it,that  the  nine notes were accepted by	the  respondent	 forgiving legal advice in a land dispute.	The suggestion of  aland dispute was made to allay any suspicion as to the	pre-sence  of  Mukherji, Sahai and Misra, who  were	 dressed  asordinary villagers; none of the witnesses said that the ninenotes  were  paid  for	advice in  connection  with  a	landdispute.  The respondent himself did not suggest that he hadaccepted  nine notes for giving legal advice; his  case	 wasthat  no  notes	 were found on him.  In this  state  of	 theevidence  the learned Judge was clearly in error in  holdingthat the motive for the bribe was something other than	whatwas  alleged by the prosecution.  His finding on this  pointis based on no evidence and is mere speculation.As to the 7 maunds and 10 seers of wheat, the learned  Judgefound  that  the prosecution had not  satisfactorily  provedthat the respondent was supplied			    205with  wheat without payment.  The trial Court  pointed	out,however,  that	at  least two of the  entries  in  the	saleregister  of Bhagwan Das (Ex. 10/10 and 11/11) stood in	 thename of the respondent, and it was not the respondent's casethat  he  had  paid for the wheat referred  to	in  the	 twoentries.   Whatever  be the correct finding with  regard  to-the sale or supply of these 7 maunds and 10 seers of wheat,we  agree with the trial Court that the prosecution case  isnot  essentially or vitally dependent on the sale or  supplyof  7  maunds  10  seers  of  wheat  free  of  cost  to	 therespondent.   The  charge  against  the	 respondent  is	 theacceptance  of	Rs.  100 as a bribe  from  Bhagwan  Das	 andParmeshwar Prasad on December 9, 1951.	That charge does notnecessarily depend upon the truth or otherwise of the supplyof  7 maunds and 10 seers of wheat between  certain  earlierdates.Having	dealt with the findings of fact, we proceed  now  toconsider the principal questions which arise in this appeal.We  take first the decision in Rao Shiv Bahadur	 Singh	(1).It  is not necessary to recapitulate -all the facts of	thatcase;  it is sufficient to state that in the trap  that	 waslaid  in  that	case, the most	important  witness  was	 oneNagindas  who  offered the sum of Rs. 25,000,  and  the	 twoimportant  witnesses  of  the  raiding	party  were   PanditDhanraj,   Superintendent,  Special  Police   Establishment,Delhi, and Shanti Lal Ahuja, Additional District Magistrate,Delhi.	Nagindas, who was acting on behalf of his master SirChinubhai  did not have the money to offer as a	 bribe,	 andthe money was provided by the police authorities which moneywas  offered by Nagindas in that case.	The first point	 forconsideration  in  the	case was whether  Nagindas  and	 onePannalal,  who was also a servant of Sir Chinubhai  and	 whoaccompanied Nagindas, were accomplices and, therefore, theirevidence should be treated on that basis.  This was answeredin  the negative, on the ground that neither of them  was  awilling	 party	to the giving of the bribe  and,  therefore,they  did  not	have the necessary  criminal  intent  to  betreated as abettors or accomplices.(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1098.206This brings out the first distinction which has to be  made:the  distinction between a witness who is an accomplice	 andone who is not.	 How the evidence of an accomplice is to  betreated is no longer open to any doubt; the matter has	beendealt  with  in	 a large number of  decisions,	and  as	 wasobserved  by  this  Court  in  Rameshwar  v.  The  State  ofRajasthan (1), the rule laid down in Rex v. Baskerville (2),with  regard  to  the admissibility  of	 the  uncorroboratedevidence  of  an accomplice is also the law in	India.	 Therule is that such evidence is admissible in law; but it	 haslong  been  a rule of practice, which has  virtually  becomeequivalent  to a rule of law, that the judge must  warn	 thejury  of  the  danger of convicting a prisoner	on  the	 un-corroborated  testimony	 of an accomplice.   In	 Rameshwar'scase(l) it was pointed out:"  The	only clarification necessary for  purposes  of	thiscountry is where this class of offence is sometimes tried bya  judge  without the aid of a jury.  In these cases  it  isnecessary that the Judge should give some indication in	 hisjudgment  that he has had this rule of caution in  mind	 andshould	 proceed   to  give  reasons  for   considering	  itunnecessary  to	 require corroboration on the facts  of	 theparticular case before him and show why he considers it safeto convict without corroboration in that particular case."If  the	 witnesses are not accomplices, what then  is  theirposition  ?  In	 Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh's case	(3)  it	 wasobserved,  with regard to Nagindas and Pannalal,  that	theywere partisan witnesses who were out to entrap the appellantin  that case, and it was further observed: " A	 perusal  ofthe evidence......... leaves in the mind the impression thatthey were not witnesses whose evidence could be taken at itsface  value."  We have taken the observations  quoted  abovefrom a full report of the decision, as the authorised reportdoes not contain the discussion with regard to evidence.  Itis  thus  clear	 that  the decision did	 not  lay  down	 anyuniversal  or inflexible rule of rejection even with  regardto  the evidence of witnesses who may be called partisan  orinterested witnesses.  It is plain and obvious(1) [1952] S.C.R. 377. 385(3)  [1954] S.C.R. I098.(2) [1916] 2 K.B. 658.207that  no  such rule can be laid down; for the value  of	 thetestimony of a witness depends on diverse factors,, such as,the  character	of the witness, to what extent and  in	whatmanner	he  is	interested,  how  he  has  fared  in  cross-examination,  etc.  There is no doubt that the testimony  ofpartisan  or interested witnesses must be  scrutinised	withcare and there may be cases, as in Rao Shiv Bahadur  Singh'scase (1), where the Court will as a matter of prudence	lookfor  independent  corroboration.  It is wrong,	however,  todeduce	from that decision any universal or inflexible	rulethat the evidence of the witnesses of the raiding party mustbe discarded, unless independent corroboration is available.With  regard to the other two witnesses, Pandit Dhanraj	 andShanti	Lal  Ahuja, it was observed that the  former  was  awilling	 tool  in  the hands of	 Nagindas,  and	 the  latterreduced	 himself  to  the  position  of	 a  police  witness;therefore,  their  evidence  " was not such  as	 to  inspireconfidence  in	the  mind  of the Court	 ".  Here  again  nouniversal or inflexible rule is being laid down.  It  shouldbe  noticed  that in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh's case  (1)	 thepolice	authorities provided the money, and that  was  takeninto  consideration in assessing the value of the  testimonyof  Pandit Dhanraj and Shantilal Ahuja.	 In the case  beforeus,  no	 such consideration arises, because  the  money	 wasprovided  by  Bhagwan  Das and Parmeshwar  Prasad,  and	 theofficers went there to see -what happened.  We must make  itclear  that we do not wish it to be understood that  we	 aredeciding  in this case that if the money offered as a  bribeis provided by somebody other than the bribe-giver, it makesa  distinction in principle.  That question does  not  arisefor decision here.  All that we say and have said so far  isthat  in assessing the value of the testimony of a  witness,diverse	 factors  must	arise  for  consideration  and	 thecomparative importance of this or that factor must depend onthe facts or circumstances of each case.  No standard higheror stricter than this can be laid down, or was laid down  inRao Shiv Bahadur Singh's decision (1).We  must advert here to two other aspects of that  decision.It was observed there in clear and emphatic(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1098.208words  that  it	 is the duty of the  police  authorities  toprevent	 crimes being committed; but it is no part of  theirbusiness  to provide the instruments of the  offence.	Withthese observations we are in agreement.	 In Brannan v.	Peck(1), a police officer went inside a public house and made  abet  on	 a  horse, which act amounted to  an  offence.	 Themotive	in making that bet was to detect the  offence  underthe  Street Betting Act, 1906, which was being committed  bythe  accused person in that case.  In  these  circumstances,Goddard C. J. made the following observations: " I hope	 theday is far distant, when it will become a common practice inthis  country  for police officers to be told to  commit  anoffence	 themselves  for  the purpose  of  getting  evidenceagainst	 someone  ". We also express the same hope  for	 ourcountry,  but must hasten to add that in the case before  usno  offence  was  committed by any of  the  three  officers,Mukherji, Sahai and Misra, in order to get evidence  againstthe respondent.	 This point was again emphasised in a  laterdecision  of  this Court in Ramjanam Singh v. The  State  ofBihar (2).  It was therein observed:"  The	very  best  of men  have  moments  of  weakness	 andtemptation, and even the worst, times when they repent of anevil  thought and are given an inner strength to  set  Satanbehind	them  and  if  they do, whether	 it  is	 because  ofcaution,  or because of their better instincts,	 or  becausesome  other  has  shown	 them either  the  futility  or	 thewickedness  of wrongdoing, it behaves society and the  Stateto protect them and help them in their good resolve; not to.place  further	temptation in their way and start  afresh  atrain of criminal thought which had been finally set  aside.This  is  the type of case to which the strictures  of	thisCourt  in  Shiv Bahadur Singh v. State of  Vindhya  Pradesh,A.I.R. 1954 S.C. 322 at p. 334 apply."The other aspect of the decision in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh'scase  (3) is the employment of Magistrates as  witnesses  ofpolice traps.  Here again, we are in full agreement with theview that the independence and impartiality of the judiciaryrequires that Magistrates(1)  [1947] 2 All E.R. 572.(3)  [1954] S.C.R. 1098.(2) A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 643,651.209whose normal function is judicial should not be relegated tothe position of partisan witnesses and " required to  deposeto  matters  transacted by them in their  official  capacityunregulated  by any statutory rules of procedure or  conductwhatever  At  the  same time it is necessary  to  make	somedistinctions.	In  a  large part of the  country  now,	 thedirective principle laid down in Art. 50 of the Constitutionhas been implemented, and there has been a separation of thejudiciary  from the executive.	The principles on which	 theemployment  of Magistrates as witnesses of police traps	 hasbeen  condemned	 have  hardly  any  application	 where	 theMagistrates concerned are executive Magistrates who  performno  judicial functions or where the officers  concerned	 areofficers of the Anti-Corruption Department whose duty it  isto  detect offences of corruption.  In the case	 before	 us,Mukherji and Misra belonged to such a department.  Moreover,however inexpedient it may be to employ Magistrates as	trapwitnesses,  their  evidence  has to be judged  by  the	samestandard  as  the evidence of other partisan  or  interestedwitnesses, and the inexpediency of employing Magistrates  astrap witnesses cannot be exalted into an inflexible rule  oftotal  rejection  of  their  evidence,	in  the	 absence  ofindependent  corroboration.  The  learned  Solicitor-Generalreferred in the course of his arguments to the difficulty ofdetecting  corruption  cases and of securing  conviction  insuch  cases.   We  do not think that  such  a  considerationshould	influence  the	mind of a judge.   Whatever  be	 thedifficulties,  admissible evidence given in a case  must  bejudged	on  its	 own merits, with due,	regard	to  all	 thecircumstances of the case.In  some  of the cases which have been cited at	 the  bar  adistinction  has  been drawn between two kinds	of  'traps'-legitimate and illegitimate-as In re M. S. Mohiddin (1), andin  some  other cases a distinction has	 been  made  betweentainted	 evidence of an accomplice and interested  testimonyof  a partisan witness and it has been said that the  degreeof  corroboration necessary is higher in respect of  taintedevidence than for partisan(1)  (1952) Cr.L.J. 1245.27210evidence (see Ram Chand Tolaram Khatri v. The, ,State  (1)).We  think  that for deciding the questions before  us,	suchdistinctions  are somewhat artificial, and in the matter  ofassessment  of	the  value of evidence	and  the  degree  ofcorroboration  necessary  to inspire  confidence,  no  rigidformula can or should be laid down. For the aforesaid reasons, we think that the learned  Judgeof the High Court did not correctly appreciate the effect ofthe  decision in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh's case (2 )  and  hewas  in error in thinking that that decision laid  down	 anyinflexible  rule that the-evidence of the witnesses  of	 theraiding	 party	must  be discarded in  the  absence  of	 anyindependent  corroboration.  The correct rule is this  :  ifany  of	 the  witnesses are accomplices	 who  are  particepscriminis  in  respect  of the actual  crime  charged,  theirevidence  must be treated as the evidence of accomplices  istreated;  if  they are not accomplices but are	partisan  orinterested  witnesses, who are concerned in the	 success  ofthe  trap, their evidence must be tested in the same way  asother  interested evidence is tested by the  application  ofdiverse	 considerations which must vary from case  to  case,and  in	 a  proper  case,  the	Court  may  even  look	 forindependent  corroboration  before  convicting	the  accusedperson.	  If a Magistrate puts himself in the position of  apartisan  or interested witness, he cannot claim any  higherstatus and must be treated as any other interested witness.This brings us to the last question: if in the present case,there is any independent corroboration.	 We have pointed outthat  the two search witnesses Janki Sao and  Ganesh  Prasad(prosecution witnesses 4 and 5) were independent  witnesses,who  had nothing to do with the raiding party.	 They  foundone crumpled ten-rupee note, one of the series initialled byMukherji  and  the  numbers  of	 which	were  noted  in	 thestatements  of	Bhagwan Das and Parmeshwar  Prasad,  at	 thesouthwestern  corner of the verandah, where  the  respondentwhen  seized  by the raiding party tried to throw  away	 thenotes.	In our view, the evidence of the two search(1) A.I.R. 1956 Bom. 287.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 1098.211witnesses  does	 provide  independent  corroboration,  in  amaterial particular, to the testimony of the raiding, party.The  crumpled note, one of the series testified' to  by	 theraiding party, could not come of itself to the verandah ; itcould  be  found  where it was actually found  only  if	 thetestimony of the raiding party was true.  The learned  Judgesaid  that the search witnesses came later and did  not	 seethe  actual transaction, that is, the giving and  taking  ofthe  bribe.  That is correct; but independent  corroborationdoes not mean that every detail of what the witnesses of theraiding party have said must be corroborated by	 independentwitnesses.  As was observed by Lord Reading in Baskerville'scase  (1) even in respect of the evidence of an	 accomplice,all that is required is that there must be " some additionalevidence  rendering  it	 probable  that	 the  story  of	 theaccomplice  is	true and that it is reasonably safe  to	 actupon  it ". In Rameshwar v. The State of Rajasthan  (2),  towhich  we have referred in an earlier paragraph, the  natureand  extent  of	 corroboration	required,  when	 it  is	 notconsidered  safe  to  dispense with it,	 have  been  clearlyexplained  and	it  is merely necessary	 to  reiterate	thatcorroboration  need  not  be by	 direct	 evidence  that	 theaccused committed the crime; it is sufficient even though itis merely by circumstantial evidence of his connection	withthe crime.While referring to the findings of fact we have pointed	 outthat  the  learned  Judge himself accepted  as	correct	 theprosecution  case in its essential parts.  There is  in	 ouropinion	 no  difficulty in accepting the testimony'  of	 theraiding	 party	in  this case, supported as  it	 is  by	 theindependent testimony of the two search witnesses.Learned counsel for the respondent has urged before us, as alast  resort, that we should not exercise the  extraordinaryjurisdiction vested in this Court by Art. 136, in a case  ofacquittal  by the High Court, unless exceptional or  specialcircumstances  are shown to exist or substantial  and  graveinjustice  has	been done.  He has drawn  attention  to	 ourdecision in The(1) [1916] 2 K. B. 658.	       (2) [1952] S.C.R. 377, 385.1212State  Government,  Madhya Pradesh v.  Ramkrishna  GanpatraoLimsey	and  others (1).  In this case,	 the  learned  Judgeaccepted as correct all the essential facts constituting theoffence with which the respondent was charged, but he passedan order of acquittal on a misconception as to the effect ofa decision of this Court.  We have no doubt whatsoever	thatthis  is  a fit case for the exorcise  of  our	jurisdictionunder Art. 136 of the Constitution.In  view of the findings of fact arrived at by	the  learnedJudge, the only reasonable conclusion is that the respondentis  guilty of the offence with which he was charged and	 theorder of acquittal is clearly erroneous.  A point about	 thevalidity  of  the  order  sanctioning  prosecution  of	 therespondent  was urged before the learned Special Judge,	 whoheld  that  the sanction was in order.	This point  was	 notdealt  with in the High Court.	But learned counsel for	 therespondent  has	 frankly conceded before us that  he  cannotsuccessfully  urge that point here.  It is,  therefore,	 un-necessary  to  remand the appeal for a	further	 hearing  onmerits.The result, therefore, is that this appeal is allowed.	 Thejudgment  and order of the learned single Judge of the	HighCourt  of Patna, dated January 13, 1955, are set aside;	 therespondent is convicted of the offence under s. 161,  IndianPenal  Code, and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for	 oneyear, namely, the same sentence as was passed by the learnedSpecial Judge of Gaya.	The respondent must now surrender toserve out his sentence.			    Appeal allowed.(1) A.I.R. 1954 S.C. 20.213