PETITIONER:SETABGUNJ SUGAR MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,CENTRAL, CALCUTTA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/11/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.KAPUR, J.L.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  360		  1961 SCR  (2) 488 CITATOR INFO : F	    1969 SC 946	 (4) RF	    1978 SC1320	 (9)ACT:Income Tax-Company having several activities-Set-off of lossin one, when can be claimed against profits in	another-Whe-ther   activities  constitute  one  business   or   separatebusinesses-Mixed question of law and fact-Indian Income	 TaxAct, 1922, (11 of 1922) SS. 24(2), 66(2).HEADNOTE:The  appellant company which had different ventures  claimedto set off against the profits of one venture the losses  ofits  other venture which were brought forward from the	backyears, contending that the losses were of the same  businessand  S.	 24(2) of the Indian Income-tax	 Act  applied.	 The'tribunal  rejected  the  appellants  contention  and	gavereasons why the various activities of the company could	 notbe construed as the same business for the application of  S.24(2).The  company then asked the Tribunal to make a reference  tothe High Court on questions of law arising out of Tribunal'sorder.	The Tribunal declined to make a reference.  The com-pany moved the High Court of Calcutta, under s. 66(2) of489Income-tax  Act,  for calling upon the Tribunal to  state  acase  but  the	application was	 summarily  dismissed.	 Thecompany	 appealed  to the Supreme Court, by  special  leave,against	 the decision of the Income-tax	 Appellate  Tribunaland also the order of the  Calcutta High Court.Held,  that the question whether different ventures  carriedon  by	an individual or a company form one  business  is  amixed  question of law and facts.  The principle is to	findout  whether there is any interconnection, any	interlacing,any  interdependence,  any  unity  at  all,  embracing	 theventures  as  laid down in Scales v. George Thompson  &	 Co.Ltd.   These  principles  have to be applied  to  the  factsbefore	a  legal inference can be drawn	 that  a  particularbusiness  is  composed of separate businesses  and  not	 onebusiness.  The ultimate conclusion is a legal inference fromfacts  proved  and  is one of mixed law and  fact  on  whichapplication of S. 24(2) of the Act depends.In the instant case a question of law did arise on which theHigh  Court should have asked for a statement of  the  case.The   question	of  law	 is  "whether  on  the	 facts	 andcircumstances  of the case, the business activities  of	 thecompany, to wit, manufacture and sale of sugar and sale	 andpurchase  of gunnies, jute, mustard seeds,  constituted	 thesame  business within the meaning of S. 24(2) of the  IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922".The  High Court is directed to call for a statement  of	 thecase from the Tribunal and dispose of it according to law.Scales	v. George Thompson & Co. Ltd., (1927) 13 T.  C.	 83,relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 143 of 1958.Appeal	by Special Leave from the Judgment and	Order  datedthe  15th March, 1955, of the Income-tax Appellate  Tribunalof India, Calcutta in I. T. A. No. 4309 of 1954.Civil Appeal No. 144 of 1958.Appeal	by Special Leave from the Judgment and	Order  datedthe 27th April, 1956, of the Calcutta High Court in  Income-tax Matter No. 9 of 1956.N.A.  Palkhivala (In both the Appeals) and B. P.  Maheshwarifor the Appellants.K.N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta for the Respondent.1960.  November 17.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredby62490HIDAYATULLAH,  J.-These	 are  two  consolidated	 appeals  byspecial leave.	The first is directed against ,.an order  ofthe  Income-tax	 Appellate Tribunal,  Calcutta	Bench  datedMarch  15,  1955,  and the other, against an  order  of	 theCalcutta  High Court dated April 27, 1956, declining to	 askfor  a	statement of the case under s. 66(2) of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act.The  facts are as follows: Setabgunj Sugar Mills,  Ltd.,  isthe  appellant.	 This Company was incorporated in 1934,	 andwas established to take over some sugar mills run by a firm.Included   in  the  objects  for  which	 the   Company	 wasestablished was the business of buyers, sellers and  dealersin jute, gunnies, oil seeds, etc.  For the first few  years,the Company carried on the business of manufacture and	saleof  sugar  only.  In the accounting year ending	 August	 31,1945, the Company had some transactions in gunnies and	madea  profit.   In the next accounting year ending	 August	 31,1946,  the  Company made also a profit	in  transactions  ingunnies and jute.  In the accounting year ending August	 31,1947,  (corresponding  assessment year being  1948-49),	 theCompany	 did business in mustard seeds, gunnies and  Hessianand  made profit.  After this assessment year,	the  Companyceased	to have any business other than the manufacture	 andsale of sugarWe   are  concerned  with  the	assessment   year   1948-49,corresponding to the accounting year ending August 31, 1947.In that year, the profits from the sale of gunnies,  mustardand jute amounted to Rs. 6,14,018.  Some-of the business wasdone by purchases or sales in the territory now in Pakistan.During the same accounting year, the sugar business resultedin  a loss of Rs. 2,09,306.  The loss in sugar business	 wasset off against the profits of the other businesses, and theIncome-tax  Officer by his order assessed the Company on  anincome	of  Rs. 4,04,712.  The Company claimed	to  set	 offagainst	 this profit, business losses of back years  in	 itsbusiness in sugar amounting to Rs. 13,43,069, which had beenbrought	 forward from the previous year.  The contention  ofthe Company was that these losses were of the same business,and491that  s. 24(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act  applied.	Thiscontention  was	 not accepted.	On appeal to  the  AppellateAssistant Commissioner, the contention of s the Company	 wasaccepted.  The Commissioner of Income-tax then preferred  anappeal before the Income-  tax Appellate  Tribunal (CalcuttaBench),	 which was allowed.  The Tribunal gave	reasons	 whythe various activities of the Company could not be construedas the same business for the application of s. 24(2).The  Company then asked the Tribunal to make a reference  tothe  High Court on four questions of law which,	 it  stated,arose out of the Tribunal's order.  The Tribunal declined tomake  a	 reference.  The Company next moved the	 High  Courtunder  s. 66(2) of the Act for calling upon the Tribunal  tostate a case on the four questions, but its application	 wassummarily  dismissed.	The Company has	 now,  with  specialleave, appealed against the order of the Tribunal  reversingthe  decision  of the Appellate Assistant  Commissioner	 andalso  against the order of the High Court declining to	callfor a statement of the case.The  question  whether, on the application  of	the  settledtests,	different ventures carried on by an individual or  acompany	 form the same business is a mixed question  of	 lawand  fact.   Certain  principles are  applied  to  determinewhether	 on the facts found a legal inference can  be  drawnthat  the different ventures constitute separate  businessesor  viewed  together,  can be said to  constitute  the	samebusiness.   These principles were stated by Rowlatt,  J.  inScales v. George Thompson & Co. Ltd. (1).  The learned Judgeobserved:"...........  the  real question is, was  there	 any  inter-connection, any interlacing, any inter-dependence, any unityat all embracing those two businesses."The learned Judge also observed that what one had to see waswhether	 the  different ventures were so interlaced  and  sodovetailed  into  each	other  as  to  make  them  the	samebusiness.  These principles have to be applied to the facts,before	a  legal inference can be drawn	 that  a  particularbusiness is composed of(1)  (1927) 13 T.C. 83, 89.492separate  businesses,  and is not one business.	  No  doubt,findings of fact are involved, because a variety of  mattersbearing	  on   the  unity  of  the  business  have   to	  beinvestigated,  such  as unity of  control  and	 management,conduct of the business through the same agency, the  inter-relation of the businesses, the employment of same  capital,the  maintenance of common books of account,  employment  ofsame staff to run the business, the nature of the  differenttransactions,  the possibility of one being  closed  withoutaffecting  the	texture of the other and  so  forth.   When,however,  the true facts have been determined, the  ultimateconclusion is a legal inference from proved facts, and it isone of mixed law and fact, on which depends the	 applicationof  s. 24(2) of the Act.  In our opinion, a question of	 lawdid  arise in the case, on which the High Court should	haveasked for a statement of the case.  That question of law is:"Whether  on  the facts and circumstances of the  case,	 thebusiness  activities of the Company to wit, manufacture	 andsale  of  sugar	 and sale and  purchase	 of  gunnies,  jute,mustard	 seeds	constituted  the same  business	 within	 themeaning of s. 24(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922?"We  accordingly	 allow Civil Appeal No. 144  of	 1958,	withcosts, and direct the High Court to call for a statement  ofthe case from the Tribunal on this question, and dispose  ofit, according to law.As regards Civil Appeal No. 143 of 1958, which questions theorder of the Tribunal, we express no opinion, though we	 maystate that the learned counsel for the Department  attemptedto show that the order of the Tribunal in the  circumstancesof the case was correct, and that no other decision but	 theone given by the Tribunal was possible.	 In view of the factthat  the  Appellate  Assistant Commissioner  had  drawn  aninference  contrary  to that of the Tribunal, it  cannot  besaid  that the legal inference was one and one	alone.	 We,however,  express  no  opinion either way,  because  we	 aresatisfied that a question of law did arise in the case,	 andhave,  therefore,  allowed  the other appeal,  so  that	 thematter may be examined by493the High Court in the first instance, on a statement of	 thecase by the Tribunal.Civil Appeal No. 143 of 1958, will, therefore, be dismissed,but without any order as to costs.		     C.	 A. No. 144 of 1958 allowed.		     C.	 A. No. 143 of 1958 dismissed.