PETITIONER:LAKSHMI DEVI SUGAR MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:PT. RAM SARUP.(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:24/10/1956BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR   82		  1956 SCR  916ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Application	 for permission	 to  dismissworkmen-Jurisdiction of Appellate Tribunal-Scope of enquiry-Interim order of suspension by employer pending enquiry	 andreceipt of permission-If amounts to a lock-out-If amounts topunishment  -Prior Permission of the Appellate Tribunal,  ifrequired-Enquiry  by  General  Manager-Non-co-operation	  byworkmen-Enquiry	 not  held within the prescribed  time-If  abreach	of  Standing Orders Industrial	Disputes  (AppellateTribunal)  Act	(XLVIII	 of  1950),  ss.  22,  23-IndustrialDisputes  Act (XIV of 1947), s.	 33(a)(b)--Standing  Orders,cl.  L 12.HEADNOTE:Seventy-six  workers of the appellant company resorted to  atools-down  strike in sympathy with a dismissed	 -co-worker.Repeated  attempts  to persuade them to resume	work  havingfailed	the  General Manager suspended	them  until  furtherorders.	  After	 midday	 recess	 the  Management  sought  toprevent	 the  workers  from  entering  the  mills  but	theyviolently entered the mills and the Police had to be  calledin by the company to keep the peace.  Charges of  misconductand  insubordination  were  thereafter	framed	against	 theworkers	 and they were called upon to show cause in an	openenquiry	 to be held by the General Manager why	disciplinaryaction	should	not be taken against them and the  order  ofsuspension  was extended pending the enquiry.	The  workerstook  up  an  attitude	of  total  non-cooperation  and	 theatmosphere was tense with the result that the enquiry  couldnot  be	 held  within 4 days.	The  Management	 decided  todismiss	 the  workers as a result of the enquiry but  as  anappeal	 was  then  pending  before  the  Labour   AppellateTribunal,  the	company applied to it under s.	22  -of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  (Appellate Tribunal) Act of  1950	 forpermission  to do so and extended the period  of  suspensionpending	 receipt of such permission.  The workmen  in  theirturn  filed  an application under a. 23 of the	Act  to	 theAppellate Tribunal for requisite action to be taken  againstthe  company for having contravened s. 22(b) of the  Act  byresorting to an illegal lock-out and thereby punishing	themwithout	 its prior permission.	The Appellate Tribunal	heldthat  the company had not held the enquiry within  the	timespecified  by el.  L 12 of the Standing Orders and  on	thatground	 dismissed   its  application.	  It   allowed	 theapplication  of	 the  workers  holding	that  the  wholesalesuspension   of	 the  workers  and  preventing	 them	fromcontinuing  work.  after the mid-day recess  amounted  to  alock-out917and  punishment by the company and contravened s.  22(b)  ofthe  Act  and  directed their  reinstatement.	The  companyappealed.   It was contended on behalf of the  company	thatthere had been neither a breach of el.	L 12 of the StandingOrders nor a contravention of s.   22(b) of the Act.Hold, that the contentions were correct and the appeals mustsucceed.The  conduct  of  the  company	did  not  come	within	 thedefinition of a lock-out and even if there was any  lock-outit  was in consequence of the illegal strike resorted to  bythe workmen and as such could not be deemed to be illegal byvirtue of s. 24(3) of the Industrial Disputes.Act, 1947.Moreover, even assuming that the company declared an illegallock-out  it  was  not	necessary  for	it  to	obtain	 thepermission of the Appellate Tribunal under s. 22 of the	 Actbefore it could do so.A  lock-out was neither an alteration of the  conditions  ofservice	 within	 the meaning of el. (a) nor a  discharge  orpunishment  by dismissal or otherwise within the meaning  ofel.  (b)  of s. 33 of the Industrial Disputes-Act,  1947  orunder s. 22 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate  Tribunal)Act, 1950 and no permission was, therefore, required for itsdeclaration.   If the lock-out was illegal the	workmen	 hadtheir remedy under s. 26 of the Industrial Disputes Act	 andin any event they had the right to have the dispute referredfor adjudication.Jute  Workers  Federation,  Calcutta  v.  Clive	 Jute  Mills([1951]	 11  L.L.J.  344)  and	Colliery  Mazdoor  Congress,Asansol v. New Beerbhoom Coal Co. Ltd. ([1952] L.A.C.  219),approved.The  Company having been declared a public utility  concern,the  workers had no right to go on strike without  giving  anotice in terms of s. 22(1) of the Industrial Disputes	Act,1947  and  the	tools-down strike resorted to  by  them	 wasillegal and the company was within its rights in  suspendingthem.Buckingham   and  Carnatic  Co.	 Ltd.  v.  Workers  of	 theBuckingham  and	 Carnatic  Co. Ltd.,  ([1953]  S.C.R.  219),referred to.Mere  failure to hold an enquiry within the period  of	fourdays  prescribed by el.	 L 12 of the Standing  Orders  couldnot  determine the matter before the Appellate Tribunal	 andwhere,	as  in the instant case, the delay was	due  to	 theconduct of the workers it was sufficiently explained.Where full and free opportunity was given to the workers  tobe present and defend themselves in a duly notified  enquiryand  they failed to do so, the Management was  quite  withinits  right to come to its own conclusion as to	their  guiltand  the punishment to be meted out to them and it  was	 notopen to the workmen thereafter to urge that such enquiry wasnot fair or impartial or violated the principles of  naturaljustice.918There could be no punishment so long as there was no offenceand  any  action  of the employer to the  detriment  of	 theworkers'  interest would not amount to punishment.  The	 lawdid not contemplate anything like a contingent punishment ofa worker and, consequently, where there was an interim orderof suspension pending an enquiry or the grant of  permissionby  the	 Appellate  Tribunal, the question of  pay  for	 theperiod	of such suspension depending on whether or  not	 thepermission  would  be  granted, such  suspension  would	 notamount	to  punishment even where it was  of  an  indefiniteduration so as to attract the operation of s. 22 of the	 In-dustrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950.Champdany  Jute Mills and Certain Workmen, ([1952) 1  L.L.J.554), Joint Steamer Companies and -Their Workmen, ([1954] IIL.L.J.	221), Assam Oil Co. Ltd. v. Appalswami,	 ([1954]  11L.L.J.	328), Standard Vacuum Oil Co. v. Gunaseelan,  M.  G.([1954] II L.L.J. 656), relied on.Under  that  section  the  only	 thing	that  the  AppellateTribunal had to consider was whether a prima facie case	 hadbeen made out by the employer for lifting the ban imposed bythe  section  and  if, on the materials before	it,  it	 wassatisfied  that	 there	bad  been  a  fair  enquiry  in	 thecircumstances  of the case and the Management had bona	fidecome  to  the  conclusion  that the  worker  was  guilty  ofmisconduct  with which he had been charged and it  would  bedetrimental to discipline and dangerous in the interests  ofthe  company  to continue him in its employ, a	prima  faciecase was made out and the Tribunal would be bound to  permitthe employer to punish the workman.  It would be no part  ofits  duty  to  judge whether the  punishment  was  harsh  orexcessive, except so far it might bear on the bona fides  ofthe  Management,  and  could only grant	 the  permission  assought for or refuse it and the question of the propriety ofthe  punishment	 could be decided only	by  the	 appropriateTribunal  appointed by the Government for  adjudicating	 theindustrial dispute which would ensue upon the action of	 themanagement.Atherton  West	& Co. Ltd. v. Suti Mills Mazdoor  Union	 andOthers,	 ([1953]  S.C.R. 780), The  Automobile	Products  ofIndia Ltd. v. Bukmaji Bala & Others, ([1955] 1 S.C.R.  1241)Champdany  Jute	 Mills and Shri Alijan,	 ([1952]  II  L.L.J.629), R.B.S. Lachmandas Mohan Lal & Sons Ltd. and Chini HillKarmachari  Union,  ([1952]  II L.L.J. 787)  and  Assam	 OilCompanies' Case, ([1954] L.A.C. 78), referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 244 and 245of 1954.Appeals	 from the judgment and order dated August 19,  1952,of  the	 Labour Appellate Tribunal of  India  (Calcutta)  atAllahabad in Miscellaneous Cases Nos, C-91 and 93 of 1952.919N.   C. Chatterji, H. J. Umrigar, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N.Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellant in	  bothappeals.Purshottam Tricumdas, R. Ganapathy Iyer and B.	  P.Maheshwari, for respondents in both appeals. M. C. Setalvad,Attorney-General for India, Porus A.	Mehta	and  R.	  H.Dhebar, for the Intervener.1956.  October 24.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI J.-These two appeals :by special leave arise out ofan order of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India,  LucknowBench,	by  which  it  dismissed  the  application  of	 theappellant under s. 22 of the Industrial Disputes  (AppellateTribunal) Act, 1950, hereinafter referred to as the Act	 forpermission  to dismiss the respondents from its	 employ	 andallowed	 the application of the respondents under s.  23  ofthe Act for reinstatement.The respondents are 76 employees of the appellant, a limitedcompany of Sugar Mills, situated in village Chitauni in	 thedistrict  of  Deoria  and were working	in  the	 engineeringdepartment of the mills in the mill house, boiling-house andthe  workshop  sections.  There were  disputes	between	 theappellant  and	its workmen and, on the	 date  in  question,i.e.,  May  27, 1952, there was pending	 before	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal an appeal which was registered  as	Cal-101/51.	  It appears that one Motilal Singh, an employee  ofthe  appellant,	 had  been dismissed by	 it  sometime  priorthereto and he had been inciting the workmen to make  commoncause  with him, and, at a meeting held the previous  night,some sort of action had been decided upon.  When the workmenof the appellant entered the mills on the morning of May 27,1952, these 76 workmen, though they entered their respectivesections of the engineering department, did not commence anywork  from 7 a.m. as they should have done.   The  sectionalengineers  in-charge asked these workmen as to why they	 didnot commence their work and became a ware of their intentionto resort920to a tools-down strike.	 They reported the fact to the ChiefEngineer  who sent a slip to the General  Manager  informinghim  that the workers had gone on a tools down strike.	 TheGeneral.  Manager thereupon personally went to the workshop,mill  house and -the boiling house and asked  these  workmennot to resort to such strike but the latter did not pay	 anyheed  to  his advice. -The General Manager  then  asked	 theChief  Engineer	 to persuade these workmen to  commence	 thework,  give them time for about 2 hours till 10-30 a.m.	 andreport to him if, in spite of his persuasions, they did	 notcommence  work.	 The persuasions of the Chief  Engineer	 andalso of the section engineers proved of no avail and the  76workmen persisted in their attitude with the result that thesection engineers made their reports to the General  Managerthrough	 the Chief Engineer giving the names of the  workmenbelonging  to their respective sections who had resorted  tothe  tools-down	 strike with effect from 7  a.m.  that	day.These reports were endorsed by the Chief Engineer and passedon  to the General Manager who,in his turn, passed an  orderat about 10-30 a.m. suspending these 76 workmen till furtherorders.	 The order for suspension was communicated to  theseworkmen through their sectional heads and was also pasted onthe  notice board of the mills.	 There was a recess  between11 a.m. and 1 p.m. and when the gates were opened at 1	p.m.these	76  workmen,  in  spite	 of  the  warnings  of	 thegatekeepers  and  Jemadar to the contrary, rushed  into	 themills,	entered	 their	respective sections  and  adopted  athreatening attitude.  The sectional engineers made  reportsto  the	 General -Manager in regard to this  occurrence	 andthese  reports also were endorsed by the Chief Engineer	 andpassed	on  by him to the General  Manager.   The  situationwhich  was  created by these workmen  by  forcibly  enteringtheir  respective sections and continuing there	 threateningviolence was explosive and the management had to call in thepolice	in  order  to  avert  violence	and  damage  to	 theproperty.  The police came in at 5 p.m. and order appears tohave been restored.  There was no untoward incident that day921but  the  management appears to have  viewed  the  situationwith,  seriousness and approached the Regional	ConciliationOfficer the next day in order to ask for advice in regard tothe  dismissal of these workmen.  The Regional	ConciliationOfficer,  however, pointed out to the General Manager  that,in  view  of the pendency of the appeal	 before	 the  LabourAppel,	late Tribunal, he had no jurisdiction  to  entertainany application for such permission and referred the GeneralManager	 to the Labour Appellate Tribunal.  The workmen,  onthe  other hand, got a letter dated May 28, 1952,  addressedto the General Manager by the General Secretary of the ChiniMill  Mazdoor Sangh to the effect that they had gone to	 thegates of 'the mills as usual at 7 a.m. that day to attend totheir work but they were not allowed to enter the mill	pre-mises.	 They charged the management with the  intention  tovictimise  them	 -on the charge of a tools down	 strike	 andstated	that they had neither struck nor intended to  strikebut had been prevented from attending to their work and	 hadtherefore  been advised to go back to their quarters with  aview  to maintain peace.  The last paragraph of that  letterwas very significant.  The General Manager was told that  ifhe  did not mend his illegal mistakes and did not  take	 theworkmen back on duty he would be responsible for any  breachof peace.After receipt of that letter it was evident that the workmenwould resort to violent measures in order to attend to theirwork and a breach of peace was apprehended.  The  managementevidently continued the police precautions and, after havingwaited for some time, the General Manager furnished to these76  workmen  on	 June 2, 1952,	a  charge-sheet	 wherein  hecharged	 them  with having committed misconduct	 within	 themeaning of cl.	L. I (a) and (b) and wailful insubordinationwithin	the  meaning of el.  L. I (a), (b) and	(w)  of	 theStanding  Orders.  He called upon them to show cause  within24 hours of the receipt of the charge-sheet why disciplinaryaction	should	not  be taken against  them  and  gave	themintimation that an open enquiry in connection with the	saidcharges120922would  be  held by him at 8 a.m. on June 6, 1952.   He	alsointimated  that	 if  all the  workmen  arranged	 to  presentthemselves  earlier than June 6, 1952, he would take up	 thesaid  enquiry earlier provided, however, an  intimation	 wasreceived to that effect from them or from their Union.	 Theworkmen	 were  to  remain suspended  till  the	enquiry	 wasfinished.The workmen addressed uniform letters to the General Managerdenying	 that  there was any tools down strike	on  May	 27,1952,  and alleging that the sectional heads and  the  ChiefEngineer  bad  conspired  together  "under  some  mysteriouspreconceived plans" and stated that no useful purpose  wouldbe served by holding an enquiry	 on the 1 1 th day of  theirsuspension.  They pointed out that such indefinite period ofsuspension  during  the pendency of the	 appeal	 before	 theLabour	Appellate  Tribunal  and  Reconciliation  Board	 wasillegal	 and unjustified and was in utter disregard  of	 theStanding  Orders.   By their further letter  dated  June  5,1952,  similarly  addressed  to the  General  Manager,	theyvoiced	their  apprehension  that they	would  not  get	 anyjustice	 from an enquiry held by the management	 itself	 andasked  for  investigation  by an  impartial  tribunal.	 Themanagement, however, held the enquiry as intimated at 8 a.m.on  June 6, 1952.  The workmen non-co-operated and  did	 notpresent themselves at the enquiry.The General Manager immediately addressed a letter to  theseworkmen	 putting  on  record that- in spite  of	 the  ordersconveyed by him earlier the workmen had disobeyed the.	sameand had not appeared at the appointed time and place for theenquiry into the tools-down strike.  He pointed out that  bynot appearing in this manner they had made themselves liableto  dismissal  for insubordination, and intimated  that	 themanagement  was	 applying  to  the  proper  authorities	 forpermission  to	dismiss them pending receipt  of  which	 theworkmen	 would	remain under suspension.   This	 letter	 wasreceived by the workmen at 9 a.m. that day and they  repliedthrough	 the  General Secretary of the	Chini  Mill  MazdoorSangh repeating that a demand had been made for an923investigation  by an impartial tribunal and in so far as  noimpartial   tribunal  had  been	 appointed  they  were	 notagreeable to present themselves and submit their defence  atthe enquiry which was conducted by the management itself.The  appellant	thereafter made	 the  necessary	 applicationunder s. 22 of the Act before the Labour Appellate  Tribunalof India, Lucknow Bench, for permission to dismiss these  76workmen.   In  the affidavit which was filed in	 support  ofthat application, all the facts herein before mentioned wereset  out  in  extenso  and  it	was  pointed  out  that	 themanagement,   after   giving  full  consideration   to	 theexplanations  and  offering every  possible  opportunity  tothese  workmen	to explain their conduct  coupled  with	 theunreasonable  attitude	adopted by them, had  adjudged	themguilty of misconduct under cl.	L. I (a), (b) and (w) of theStanding  Orders and considered that any further  employmentof   these  workmen  would  be	extremely   detrimental	  todiscipline and dangerous in the interests of the industry.The  workmen,  in  their turn, filed on	 June  9,  1952,  anapplication  under s. 23 of the Act for requisite action  tobe  taken  against the appellant for having  contravened  s.22(b) of the Act by inflicting on them the punishment in theshape  of harassment by resorting to an illegal lookout	 foran indefinite period with effect from May 27, 1952,  withoutobtaining  the	prior permission of the ,  Labour  AppellateTribunal  and "thereby acting contrary to law and  resortingto  mala fide actions in direct violation of the  provisionsof  the Standing Orders in continuation of the	management'santi-trade (Union) activities".Counter-affidavits  were  made by the workmen  as  also	 themanagement  in	reply to both the above	 applications.	 TheLabour	Appellate Tribunal held that the appellant  did	 notact  in	 strict compliance with cl.  L. 12 of  the  StandingOrders	 and  was,  therefore,	not  entitled  to  ask	 forpermission  to	dismiss	 the  76  workmen.   It	 accordinglydismissed  the	appellant's application under s. 22  of	 theAct.   In regard to the application of the workmen under  s.23 of the Act, it held924that  the wholesale suspension of the 76 workmen  and  theirprevention from resuming work at I p.m. after the lunch houramounted to a lockout and that this conduct of the appellantamounted  to punishment of the workers whether by  dismissalor  otherwise  and was, therefore, in  contravention  of  s.22(b) of the Act.  It accordingly ordered the  reinstatementof the workmen if they presented themselves at the office ofthe General Manager during office hours on any day within 15days  of  the  order and also ordered payment  of  half	 thesalary	and allowances for the period of non-payment,  viz.,from  the date of their suspension up to the date  on  whichthey were taken back in service.Shri  N.  C.  Chatterjee for the  appellant  before  us	 hasstrenuously  urged  that  the workmen had  resorted  to	 thetools-down strike which was an -illegal strike and that	 theappellant  was	well  within its rights	 in  suspending	 thepending	 enquiry  and  also  pending  the  application	 forpermission to dismiss them made before the Labour  AppellateTribunal.   Even  if  it  be held  that	 the  appellant	 haddeclared a lockout, such a lockout was in consequence of theillegal	 strike resorted to by the workmen and could not  bedeemed to be illegal.  He further urged that the  managementhad  held an enquiry into the illegal strike which had	beenresorted  to by the workmen and found that the workmen	wereguilty of misconduct and insubordination within the  meaningof cl.	L. I (a), (b) and (w) of the Standing Orders and theappellant  rightly came to the conclusion that	any  furtheremployment  of these workmen would be extremely	 detrimentalto  discipline and dangerous in the interests of the  indus-try.   He  also	 contended that the  delay  in	holding	 theenquiry	 was  not  unreasonable and the	 suspension  of	 theworkmen	 pending enquiry for more than four days was due  tosufficient  reason,  the  atmosphere  created  by  the	non-cooperation  of	 the  workers being so tense  as  not  beingappropriate for the holding of an enquiry within those	fourdays, that there was no breach of cl.  L. 12 of the StandingOrders	and that the Labour Appellate Tribunal was in  errorwhen it925refused to grant the application under s. 22 of the Act.Civil  Appeal No. 245 of 1954 which is directed against	 theorder  of the Labour Appellate Tribunal under s. 23  of	 theAct  may  be  disposed of at  once.   The  Labour  AppellateTribunal was of opinion that the conduct of the appellant inpreventing the workmen from continuing work after I p.m.  onMay  27, 1952, came within the definition of a	lockout	 andthe workmen being employed in a public utility concern	suchlockout	 would be illegal without a proper notice.   It	 wasfurther of opinion that this conduct amounted to  punishmentof  a  worker  whether by dismissal or	otherwise  and	was,therefore,  in contravention of s. 22(b) of the	 Act.	Thisconclusion  of	the Labour Appellate Tribunal  was,  in	 ouropinion,  based on a misapprehension of the whole  position.The  position  had been summed up by  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal in the following words:-   "As	a matter of fact the management never thought  of  alockout.   Their idea was to suspend the  suspected  personspending enquiry for which they gave a notice".If this was the correct position, the conclusion reached  bythe  Labour  Appellate	Tribunal that  the  conduct  of	 themanagement  came  within  the definition of  a	lockout	 wasabsolutely  unjustifiable.   The Labour	 Appellate  Tribunalrecorded  its inability to come to a definite finding as  towhat  was the position which obtained on May 27,  1952.	  Itobserved-"We  have  got	a number of affidavits	in  support  of	 theparties'  case	and there is oath against oath.	 We  do	 notfind  ourselves in a position to hold definitely as to	whatwas  the exact situation.  But it does appear to us  that  amountain  has been made of a mole hill and conclusions	havebeen arrived at without going deep into the matter".Even  if the parties had made a mountain of a mole hill	 andhad reached conclusions without going deep into the  matter,it  was	 certainly  the business  of  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal itself to record a finding of fact in regard to thesituation as it obtained on926that day.  This unfortunately the Labour Appellate  Tribunaldid  not do and it came to record its conclusion,  that	 theconduct	 of the management came within the definition  of  alockout	  without   realizing  that  such   conclusion	 wasinconsistent with what it' had stated a little earlier	thatthe  management	 as  a matter of fact  never  thought  of  alockout.  -We have been taken through the whole evidence  bythe  learned  counsel for the appellant and there  is  cleardocumentary evidence to show that the 76 workmen resorted toa  tools-down  strike  from 7 a.m. on  May  27,	 1952.	 Thereports which were made by the section engineers and sent tothe  General Manager through  the Chief Engineer were  clearand  categoric	in regard to such tools-down  strike  havingbeen resorted to by the workmen in question and the list  ofthe  76	 workmen which was prepared by the  General  Managerordering  their suspension was based on those reports.	 Thefurther	 reports  which were made by the  section  engineersagain sent by them to the General Manager through the  ChiefEngineer  in the afternoon of May 27, 1952, also were  clearand  categoric	in regard to the said  workmen	having	beenasked  not to enter the workshop, the boiling house and	 themill  house  at	 1 p.m. but their having  entered  the	samethreatening  violence.	A faint attempt was made  to  chargethe  section  engineers and the Chief Engineer	with  havingconspired "under some mysterious preconceived plans" but thesame  rested  merely  on  a  bare  allegation  and  was	 notsubstantiated  by any tangible evidence.  Even though  therewas some conflict of evidence in regard to the time when thenotice	of  suspension was given by the General	 Manager  tothese workmen and when the notice in that behalf was  pastedon the notice-board of the appellant, it is abundantly clearon  the documentary evidence above referred to that  the  76workmen	 resorted to a tools down strike from 7 a.m. on	 themorning	 of  May  27, 1952, that they  were  suspended	tillfurther orders immediately after the receipt by the  GeneralManager	 of  the first series of reports  from	the  sectionengineers,  that  they	were  prevented	 from  entering	 thepremises927at  I  p.m. but entered the same threatening  violence.	  Ifthis  is  the  true position it follows that  there  was  nolockout	 declared  by the appellant, much  less	 an  illegallockout.  The workmen bad resorted to an illegal strike	 andthe  General  Manager  rightly	ordered	 that  the   workmenindulging in such strike should be suspended pending furtherorders	which  obviously meant pending	enquiry	 into  theirconduct and the obtaining of the permission to. dismiss themas  a result of such enquiry if the management thought	fit.If there was thus no illegal lockout at all, the  conclusionreached by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in that behalf	 wasabsolutely unjustified.	 Even if there had been a lockout asconcluded  by the Labour Appellate Tribunal the same was  inconsequence of the illegal strike which had been resorted toby these workmen and could not by virtue of s. 24(3) of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947, be deemed to be illegal.There  is, however, a more fundamental objection that,	evenif the appellant be held responsible for having declared  anillegal	 lockout, the lockout would not come within the	 banof  s.	22 of the Act.	The Labour  Appellate  Tribunal	 hadbefore	it  an earlier decision of its own in  Jute  WorkersFederation,  Calcutta v. Clive Jute Mills(1), in  which	 thesame question had beed considered with reference to s. 33 ofthe Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.  In that case, a  lockouthad  been  declared  which involved  4,000  workers  of	 thecompany	 and a preliminary contention was urged	 that  therewas  no	 contravention	of the provisions of s.	 33  of	 theIndustrial   Disputes  Act,  1947.   The  Labour   AppellateTribunal considered the question whether the lockout had (1)in fact altered the conditions of service of the workmen  totheir prejudice, or (2) had the effect of discharge, or	 (3)amounted  to  punishment  of the workmen.  It  came  to	 theconclusion that a lockout had not the effect of a discharge,for a lockout does not automatically terminate the  servicesof  the workmen.  It did not also amount to punishment,	 forpunishment presup-(1)  [1951] II L.L.J. 344.928poses  an  offence or misconduct.  A  lockout  is  generallyadopted	 as a security measure and may in certain  cases  beused as a weapon corresponding to what the employees have inthe  shape of a strike and that, therefore, a.	33(b)  wouldnot  be contravened by the company by. declaring a  lockout.The  Labour  Appellate Tribunal then  considered  whether  alockout would attract the operation of s. 33(a).  It was  ofopinion that no automatic termination of the services of theemployees  was brought about by a lockout and  the  questionwas  whether  any of the conditions of service	was  alteredthereby to their prejudice.  The contention of the Union wasthat the conditions of service were altered to the prejudiceof the workmen because those employees did, not in fact	 gettheir  pay  during  the	 period	 of  the  lockout  with	 thepossibility of losing it.  This contention was negatived andthe  Labour  Appellate	Tribunal was  of  opinion  that	 theconditions of their service would be altered by the  lockoutif  the	 employees  lost their right to	 receive  their	 payduring	the period of lockout in 'all circumstances but	 thequestion  whether  they would be entitled to get  their	 payduring	that period could not be postulated  with  certaintyfor  that would depend on a variety of	considerations..  Inthe  opinion  of the Labour Appellate- Tribunal to  bring  acase  within  s.-33(a), the questioned act of  the  employermust directly and in fact alter the conditions of service tothe prejudice of the workmen concerned, that is to say,	 themoment the lockout was declared.  The possibility that	theymay  or may not get their pay meant that the lockout may  ormay  not  alter	 the conditions of their  service  to  theirprejudice.  Section 33(a) would not, therefore, be attractedby  the	 mere  fact  of a  lockout.   The  Labour  AppellateTribunal thus came to the conclusion that -neither s.  33(a)nor  s.	 33(b) would be contravened by the  company  in	 de-claring the lockout.This  decision	of  the	 Labour.   Appellate  Tribunal	 wasfollowed  in  Colliery	Mazdoor Congress,  Asansol,  v.	 NewBeerbhoom Coal Co. Ltd.(1) and the Labour(1) 11952] L A.C. 219.929Appellate  Tribunal there held that a lockout did  not	comewithin	the  ambit of s. 33 and,  therefore,  no  permissionunder that section was required for declaring a lockout.We  agree with the reasoning adopted in the above cases	 andare  of opinion that a lockout is neither an  alteration  tothe  prejudice of the workmen of the conditions	 of  serviceapplicable  to	them  within the meaning of cl.	 (a)  nor  adischarge or punishment whether by dismissal or otherwise ofthe  workmen within the meaning of cl. (b) of s. 33  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act) 1947, or s. 22 of  the  IndustrialDisputes   (Appellate	Tribunal)  Act,	 1950,	 and   that,therefore, no permission of the Conciliation Officer,  Boardor  Tribunal as the case may be is necessary to be  obtainedbefore a lockout can be declared.  If the lockout is  legal,no  question can at all arise.	If, on the other hand,,	 thelockout	 is  illegal, a remedy is provided in s. 26  of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947.	The employees affected by  alock-out  would	 in  any  event be  entitled  to  refer	 theindustrial  dispute  arising  between  themselves  and	 theemployer  for adjudication by adopting the proper  procedurein regard thereto.The  Labour  Appellate Tribunal was, therefore,	 clearly  inerror when it came to the conclusion that the conduct of theappellant  came within the definition of a lockout and	thatit  amounted  to  punishment  of  the  workmen	whether	  bydismissal or otherwise and was, therefore, in  contraventionof s, 22(b) of the Act.	 The application of the	 respondentsunder  s.  23  of  the Act  was	 accordingly  liable  to  bedismissed  and	should	have been dismissed  by	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal.   Civil Appeal No. 245  of	 1954  will,therefore, be allowed and the order of the Labour  AppellateTribunal  reinstating the respondents in the service of	 theappellant will be set aside.Coming	now  to	 Civil Appeal No. 244  of  1954,  the  firstquestion  to  determine	 is  whether  the  respondents	 hadresorted to an illegal strike.	We have already pointed	 outthe circumstances under which the 76 workmen resorted to thetools-down strike from 7 a.m. on May 27, 1952, and  recordedthe finding121930that they not only resorted to such strike but persisted  intheir  attitude	 in spite of the persuasions  of  the  ChiefEngineer  and  the General Manager of  the  appellant.	 Theappellant having been declared a public utility concern, theworkmen	 were not entitled to resort to such strike  withoutgiving to the appellant notice of the strike in terms of  s.22(1)  of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and the  tools-down strike which was resorted to by them was, therefore, anillegal	 strike.   The fact that the strike was of  a  shortduration  viz.,	 from  7  a.m. till  10-30  a.m.  would	 notexculpate  the respondents from the consequence"  of  havingresorted to such illegal strike, the avowed intention of thestrikers being not to resume work until their  pre-concertedplan  conceived at, the meeting held on the  previous  nightwas carried out.  The strike resorted to by the workmen	 wasof an indefinite duration. and the management, having failedin its attempts to persuade the workmen to resume their workwas well within its rights to suspend these workmen  pendingfurther	 orders. (Vide Buckingham and Carnatic Co.  Ltd.  v.Workers of the Buckingham' and Carnatic Co. Ltd.(1)).The  Labour Appellate Tribunal did not decide this issue  atall  but only considered the alleged non-compliance  by	 theappellant   of	cl.   L.  12  of  the  Standing	 Orders	  asdeterminative of the whole enquiry before it observing	that"although  the	delay  (in  holding  the  enquiry)  was	 notunreasonable,  there  was no doubt that the  management	 didviolate	 the letter of the rule".  It further observed	thatthere  was no sufficient reason indicated for extending	 theperiod of suspension beyond the period of four days providedin cl. L. 12 of the Standing Orders, the tension created  bythe   non-co-operation	of  the	 workers  not  having	beenconsidered  sufficient	to  preclude  the  management	fromcollecting  materials for conducting the enquiry within	 thesaid  period  of  4  days,  This  reasoning  of	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  was unsound.  Having once come  to	 theconclusion that the delay was not unreasonable, there was nojustification for the further(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 219.931conclusion reached by the Labour-Appellate Tribunal that thetension	 created by the non-co-operation of the workers	 wasnot  a	sufficient reason for extending the period  of	suchsuspension.   The workmen had forcibly entered the  premisesof  the mills in spite of the warnings of the  watchmen	 andthe  Jemadar and had also entered the workshop, the  boilinghouse  and  the	 mill  house and  continued  to	 stay  therethreatening  violence.	In their letter dated June 3,  1952,they had also threatened the General Manager that if he	 didnot  mend his illegal mistakes and did not take the  workmenback  on  duty	be would be responsible for  any  breach  ofpeace.	This was enough evidence of their mentality and	 themanagement  naturally enough apprehended breach of peace  atthe  hands  of	these  workmen.	  If  this  was	 the   tenseatmosphere  created by the non-co-operation of the  workmen,the  management	 was perfectly justified in  postponing	 theenquiry by a few days and continuing the workmen under	sus-pension.  The delay which was thus caused in furnishing	 thecharge-sheets  and  giving notice of the  enquiry  to  theseworkmen	 on  June  2,  1952,  was,  therefore,	sufficientlyexplained  and	if there was any one responsible  for  this.delay it was the workmen and not the management.  It did notthen lie in the mouth of the workmen to protest against thisdelay  in  the enquiry and trot out their suspension  for  aperiod exceeding four day's as an excuse for abstaining fromthe enquiry.  As a matter of fact, the management  intimatedto  the workmen that -in spite of June 6, 1952, having	beenfixed as the date for the open enquiry, the management wouldbe  prepared  to  take up the enquiry  earlier	provided  anintimation  was	 received either from the  workmen  or	fromtheir  Union to that effect.  Instead of responding to	thisgesture of the appellant the workmen persisted in asking foran   independent  enquiry  and	non-co-operated	  with	 themanagement in the enquiry which was ultimately held by it asnotified at 8 a.m. on June 6, 1952.  We are of opinion	thatunder  the  circumstances the appellant was  not  guilty  ofhaving contravened el.	L. 12 of the Standing Orders and theLabour Appellate932Tribunal  was  in  error  when	it  came  to  the   contraryconclusion  and dismissed the application of  the  appellantunder s. 22 merely on that ground without making any furtherenquiry into the circumstances of the case.  It appears thatthe  Labour Appellate Tribunal was driven to take this	stepbecause it found itself unable to hold definitely as to whatwas  the  exact situation on May 27, 1952.   We	 shall	onlyobserve that if the Labour Appellate Tribunal had really ap-plied  its mind to the question it would have come  -to	 theconclusion  that the respondents in fact did resort  to	 theillegal	 strike from 7 a.m. on May 27, 1952, and that  therewas no contravention of cl.  L. 12 of the Standing Orders bythe appellant.The next question that falls to be determined is whether theenquiry	 which was held by the management on June  6,  1952,was a fair enquiry and whether the General Manager  observedthe  principles	 of natural justice in the conduct  of	thatenquiry	 Due  notice  of  the  enquiry	was  given  to	 therespondents  by	 the letter of the management  addressed  tothem  on June 2, 1952, and if the respondents did not  availthemselves  of the opportunity of presenting themselves	 anddefending  their  action  at  the  enquiry  they  had	onlythemselves  to blame for it.  It was within the province  ofthe  management	 to hold such an enquiry  after	 giving	 duenotice	thereof	 to the respondents and to come to  its	 ownconclusion   as	 a  result  of	such  enquiry  whether	 therespondents  were  guilty  of the  charges  which  had	beenleveled	 against  them.	 If full and  free  opportunity	 wasgiven  to  the	respondents to	present	 themselves  at	 theenquiry and defend themselves it could not be said that	 theenquiry	 was  anything but fair.  No principles	 of  naturaljustice	 were violated and the management was at liberty  tocome to its own conclusions in regard to the culpability  ofthe respondents and also to determine what punishment shouldbe  meted  out	to the respondents for	the  misconduct	 andinsubordination	 proved against them.  If the ban  which  isimposed	 by s. 22 of the Act had not been in existence,	 themanagement would have been entitled to impose the punishmenton the933respondents  and dismiss them without anything more,  if  ithonestly  came	to the conclusion that	dismissal  of  theseworkmen was the only punishment which should be meted out tothem in all the circumstances of the case.  The	 respondentswould  no  doubt  then	have  been  entitled  to  refer	 theindustrial  dispute which arose out of their  dismissal	 foradjudication by adopting the proper procedure set out in theIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1947, and the Industrial  Tribunalappointed  by  the Government for the adjudication  of	suchdispute would have been in a position to thrash out all	 thecircumstances and award to them the appropriate relief	Thiscourse was, however, not open to the appellant by reason  ofthe  pendency  of  the appeal before  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  and the only thing which the appellant  could	 do,therefore,  was,  after coming to its own  conclusion  as  aresult	of  such enquiry, to apply to the  Labour  AppellateTribunal under s.22 of the Act for permission to dismiss therespondents and this the appellant did on June 8, 1952.	  Itwas  not open to the respondents then, having regard to	 theattitude  which they had adopted throughout in	relation  tothe  said enquiry, to urge that the enquiry was not fair  orimpartial or that the principles of natural justice had beenviolated  by  the General Manager of the  appellant  in	 theconduct of the enquiry.It was, however, urged on behalf of the respondents that thesuspension  for	 an indefinite period beyond the  period  offour days provided in cl.  L. 12 of the Standing Orders	 wasa  punitive measure and the appellant was not  justified  inimposing  that punishment on them without the permission  ofthe  Labour Appellate Tribunal.	 It was contended that	suchsuspension involved loss of pay by the respondents and beingof an indefinite duration inflicted such harassment on	themthat  it  could	 not  be deemed	 to  be	 anything  except  apunishment.  We do not accept this contention.	It has	beenrightly	  held	by  the	 Labour	 Appellate   Tribunal	thatsuspension  without  pay  pending enquiry  as  also  pendingpermission of the Tribunal under the relevant section  couldnot934be  considered	a  punishment  as  such	 suspension  withoutpayment would only be an interim measure and would last tillthe  application  for permission to punish the	workman	 wasmade  and the Tribunal bad passed orders thereupon.  If	 thepermission was accorded the workman would not be paid duringthe  period of suspension but if the permission was  refusedhe would have to be paid for the whole period of suspension.There  is nothing like a contingent punishment of a  workmanand  therefore such suspension could not be deemed to  be  apunishment of the workman at all.  Such suspension would  ofnecessity  be  of an indefinite duration because  to  get  awritten	 permission of the Tribunal would mean delay and  noTribunal  would	 likely issue any order without	 notice	 andwithout	 hearing  all  the parties  concerned.	 Orders	 forsuspension  were meant only as security measures or  precau-tionary ones taken in the interest of the industry itself orits  employees	in general.  These measures  were  sometimescalled	for  immediately after an incident  and	 any  delay,however	 small,	 might	defeat the purpose  for	 which	suchmeasures were intended.	 It would therefore be necessary  toadopt these measures immediately and to suspend the  workmanpending	 the enquiry as also the permission to	be  obtainedfrom  the  appropriate Tribunal for dismissing him if  as  aresult of the enquiry the, management thought fit to inflictsuch  punishment upon him.  The suspension., however,  wouldnot  be	 a punishment by itself.   The	ordinary  dictionarymeaning	 of the word "Punish" is "to cause the	offender  tosuffer	for  the  offence" or "to  inflict  penalty  on	 theoffender"  or "to inflict penalty for the offence"  (ConciseOxford	Dictionary,  4th Ed.). Punishment can  be  otherwisedefined	 (Vide	Law  Lexicon by P.R.  Aiyar,  1943  Ed.)  aspenalty	 for  the  transgression. of law, and  the  word  ccpunish"	 denotes or signifies some offence committed by	 theperson	who is punished. Any action of the employer  to	 thedetriment of the workman's interest would not be  punishmentso  long as no offence was found to have been  committed  bythe  workman.	The  suspension	 under	such  circumstances,therefore, could935not  be a punishment even though it may be of an  indefiniteduration and would not attract the operation of s. 22 of theAct.  It could not be contended, therefore, that  suspensionwithout pay even for an indefinite period pending enquiry orpending	 the  permission  of  the  appropriate	Tribunal  todismiss	 the  workman  would be	 a  punishment	which  wouldrequire	 permission under s. 22 of the Act before  the samecould  be  meted out to the workman.  (Vide  Champdany	JuteMills  And Certain Workmen(1); Joint Steamer  Companies	 AndTheir  Workmen(2);  Assam  Oil Co.  Ltd.  v.  Appalswami(3);Standard Vacuum Oil Co. v. Gunaseelan, M. O.(4)).The  scope  of	the  enquiry  before  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal under s. 22 of the Act has been the  subject-matterof  decisions by this Court in Atherton West & Co.  Ltd.  v.Suti  Mill  Mazdoor Union and Others(5) and  The  AutomobileProducts  of  India Ltd. v. Rukmaji Bala &  Others(6).	 TheTribunal  before  whom	an application is  made	 under	thatsection	 has not to adjudicate upon any	 industrial  disputearising	 between the employer and the workman but  has	onlygot  to	 consider whether the ban  which is imposed  on	 theemployer  in  the  matter  of  altering	 the  conditions  ofemployment 'to the prejudice of the workman or his dischargeor punishment whether by dismissal or otherwise during	tilependency  of the proceedings therein referred to  should  belifted.	  A  prima  facie case has to be  made	out  by	 theemployer   for	the  lifting  of  such	ban  and  the	onlyjurisdiction  which the Tribunal has is either to give	suchpermission  or	to refuse it provided the  employer  is	 notacting mala fide or is not resorting to any unfair  practiceor  victimization.  It cannot impose any conditions  on	 theemployer  before  such	permission is  granted	nor  can  itsubstitute another prayer for the one which the employer hasset  out in his application.  If the permission is  granted,the  ban  would	 be  lifted and the  employer  would  be  atliberty, if he so chooses thereafter, to deal out the(1)  [1952] I L.L.J. 554.(2)  [1954] II L.L.J. 328. [1953] S.C.R. 780.(4)  [1951] II L.L J. 221.(5)  [1954] II L.L.J. 656.(6)  [1965] 1 S.C.R. 1241,936punishment  to the workman.  On such action being  taken  bythe  employer  the  workman would be entitled  to  raise  anindustrial  dispute which would have to be referred  to	 theappropriate  Tribunal for adjudication by the Government  onproper	steps  being  taken  in	 that  behalf.	 When	suchindustrial  dispute  comes  to be adjudicated  upon  by	 theappropriate Tribunal, the workman would be entitled to	haveall the circumstances of the case scrutinized by the  Tribu-nal and would be entitled to get the appropriate relief -at.the  hands  of the Tribunal.  If, on the  other	 hand,	suchpermission is refused, the parties would be relegated to thestatus	quo and the employer would not be able to  deal	 outthe punishment which he intends to do to the workman.	Eventhen an industrial dispute might arise between the  employerand  the workman if the workman was not paid his  due  wagesand other benefits.  Such industrial dispute also would haveto be referred to the appropriate Tribunal by the Governmentand the Tribunal would award to the workman the	 appropriaterelief	having regard to all the circumstances of the  case.The Tribunal before whom such an 'application for permissionis made under s. 22 of the Act would not be entitled to	 sitin judgment on the action of the employer if once it came tothe conclusion that a prima facie case had been made out fordealing out the punishment to the workman.  It would not  beconcerned  with the measure of the punishment nor  with	 theharshness or otherwise of the action proposed to be taken bythe employer except perhaps to the extent that it might bearon  the	 question whether the action of the  management	 wasbona  fide or was actuated by the motive  of  victimization.If  on	the materials before it the Tribunal  came  to	the-conclusion that a fair enquiry was held by the management inthe  circumstances of the case and it bad bona fide come  tothe  conclusion	 that the workman was guilty  of  misconductwith  which he had been charged a prima facie case would  bemade out by the employer and the Tribunal would under  thesecircumstances  be bound to give the requisite permission  tothe employer to deal937out  the punishment to the workman.  If the  punishment	 washarsh or excessive or was not such as should be dealt out bythe  employer having regard to all the circumstances of	 thecase  the dealing out of such punishment by the employer  tothe  workman after such permission was granted would be	 thesubject-matter of an industrial dispute to be raised by	 theworkman	 and to be dealt with as aforesaid.   The  Tribunal,however, would have no jurisdiction to go into that questionand the only function of the Tribunal under s. 22 of the Actwould  be  to either grant the permission or to	 refuse	 it.(Vide  Champdani  Jute	Mills And  Shri	 Alijan(1);  R.B  S.Lachmandas Mohan Lal & Sons Ltd.  And Chini Mill  KarmachariUnion(2) Assam Oil Companies' case(3)).In the circumstances of the present case, once the appellantsucceeded  in establishing that the workmen had resorted  toan  illegal strike from 7 a.m. on May 27, 1952, that a	fairenquiry	 into the alleged misconduct and insubordination  ofthe  workmen  had  been	 held  by  the	management   withoutviolating  any	principles  of	natural	 justice,  that	 themanagement  had as a result of such enquiry found  that	 theworkmen	 had been guilty of misconduct	and  insubordinationwith  which they had been charged -and that  the  managementhad  come  to the bona fide conclusion that  continuing	 theworkmen	 in  its employ was detrimental	 to  discipline	 anddangerous  in  the interests of the  appellant,	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  ought to have held that a	prima  faciecase  for the dismissal of the workmen had been made out  bythe  appellant and ought to have granted the  appellant	 thepermission to dismiss the workmen.We  are,  therefore, of opinion that  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  was clearly in error in rejecting the	 applicationof the appellant under s. 22 of the Act and refusing it	 thepermission  to	discharge the respondents from	its  employ.Civil Appeal go. 244 of 1954 will, therefore, be allowed andthe order of(1) [1952] II L.L.J. 629.     (2) [1952] II L.L.J. 787,(8) [1954] L.A.C. 78.122938the  Labour  Appellate Tribunal dismissing  the	 applicationunder  s.  22 of the Act will be set aside.   The  appellantwill  be  granted  permission  under s. 22  of	the  Act  todischarge the respondents from its employ.Under the orders of the Court, one-half of their salary	 hasbeen  already paid by the appellant to the respondents	fromMay  27, 1952, onwards.	 As a result of this  decision,	 theappellant  would be entitled to recover the same  back	fromthem.	Shri  N. C. Chatterjee appearing on  behalf  of	 theappellant  has,	 however, stated that  the  appellant  wouldforego	the recovery of that amount and would also keep	 therespondents on the reserve list to be employed in the  millsas  and when there were vacancies in their permanent  cadre.We  hope  that the respondents will take this offer  in	 thetrue  spirit with, which it has been made on behalf  of	 theappellant  and	behave	better in the future.	Shri  N.  C.Chatterjee has also left the question of costs of both theseappeals to us and we do order that, in all the circumstancesof the case, it would be proper that each party do bear	 andpay its own costs of both these appeals.Appeals allowed.939