PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,WEST BENGAL, CALCUTTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAJA BENOY KUMAR SAHAS ROYDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/05/1957BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  768		  1958 SCR  101ACT:Income	Tax-Exemption-Income from sale of forest  trees,  ifand  when  agricultural	 income-"Agriculture",	Meaning	 of-Indian Income-tax Act (XI Of 1922), SS. 2(1), 4(3)(viii).HEADNOTE:The question for decision in this appeal by the Commissionerof  Income-tax was whether a sum of Rs. 51,978 shown by	 theassessee  in his return as income from his forest  land	 wasagricultural  income  within the meaning of S. 2(1)  Of	 theIndian	Incometax Act and was as such exempt  from  taxationunder  S.  4(3)(viii)  of  the	Act.   The  forest  was	  ofspontaneous growth, 150 years old, and consisted of sal	 andpiyasal	 trees.	 It was in parts denuded of trees from	timeto  time  by destructive elements and the  assessee  had  toplant  fresh trees in those parts.  Considerable  amount  ofhuman labour and skill had to be applied year after year formaintaining  the 'forest, protecting the offshoots from	 thestumps	of  the	 trees that had been cut  and  sold  and  inreviving  its denuded parts by fresh plantation.  The  staffemployed  by  the  assessee  performed	such  operations  aspruning,  weeding, felling, clearing, cutting  of  channels,guarding  the trees and sowing seeds by digging the soil  inthe  denuded  areas.  The Income-tax Officer  rejected	-theassessee's claim of exemption and added a sum of Rs.  34,430to  the assessable income, allowing a sum of Rs.  17,548  asexpenditure.   The  Assistant  Commissioner  of	  Income-taxconfirmed the assessment.  The Appellate Tribunal held	thatthe sowing of seeds were few and far between and the income,derived as it was from jungle products, was not agriculturalincome within the meaning of the Act.  The High Court took acontrary  view,	 held  that  tillage of	 the  soil  was	 notessential,  and the income was agricultural income as  humanlabour	and skill had been expended on the land	 itself	 andanswered the question in favour of the assessee.  No attemptwas,   however,	 made  by  the	Income-tax  Authorities	  toascertain the income actually derived from the trees plantedby the assessee, nor were any materials placed on the recordfrom which its exact amount could be ascertained, but havingregard	to  the magnitude of the expenditure  shown  by	 theassessee as against the total income this Court held that  asubstantial  portion of it must have been derived  from	 thetrees planted by the assessee.Held,  that  the  income actually  derived  from  the  treesplanted	 by the assessee was agricultural income within	 themeaning of 2(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act and no  attempthaving been102made to ascertain its exact amount and a fresh enquiry beingundesirable after such a long lapse of time, the appeal mustbe   dismissed.The term 'agriculture'in S. 2(1)(b)(i) of the Indian Income-tax  Act connotes the entire and integrated activity  of  anagriculturist  performed on the land in order to  raise	 itsproduce and consists of such basic and essential operations,requiring human skill and labour on the land itself, as	 thetilling	 of  the  soil, sowing of the  seeds,  planting	 andsimilar	 operations  on the land and such  other  subsequentoperations,  performed	after the produce sprouts  from	 theland,  as  weeding, digging of the soil around	the  growth,removal	 of  undesirable  under-growths,  tending,  pruning,cutting,  harvesting  and marketing.  But  these  subsequentoperations, if unconnected with the basic operations, cannotby  themselves constitute agriculture.	It is only when	 theland is subjected to such integrated activity, that :It	 canbe said to be used for ,agricultural purpose' and its incomecalled agricultural income within the meaning of the Act.Case-law discussed.Whatever is produced by such agriculture must be an agricul-tural product and the ambit of the term 'agriculture' cannotbe  confined merely to the production of grain and food	 formen  and cattle but must extend to all products of the	landthat  have some utility either for consumption or trade	 andcommerce.    Fruit   and  vegetable   plantations,   groves,pastures,  articles  of luxury such as betel,  coffee,	tea,spices, tobacco etc. or commercial crops like cotton,  flax,jute,  hemp,  indigo etc. as also forest  products  such  astimber, sal and Piyasal trees, Casuarina plantations,  tenduleaves, horranuts etc., can come within its ambit.Murugesa  Chetti v. Chinnathambi Goundan, (1901)  I.L.R.  24Mad.  421 and Raja of Venkatagiri v. Ayyappa  Reddy,  (1913)I.L.R. 38 Mad. 738, disapproved.Such  an extended meaning of the term 'agriculture' and	 itsprocesses  and products can be tenable only where  there  iscultivation, which means the basic operations, and can neverbe  dissociated from them.  There is, therefore, no  warrantfor its further extension so as to include activities  whichare in some way connected with or dependent on land, such asbreeding and rearing of livestock, dairy-farming, butter andcheese making and poultry farming.Moolji Sicka & Co., In re,(1925) 10 T.C.341 and Commissionerof  Income Tax v. K. E. Sundara Mudaliar, (1950)  18  I.T.R.259, disapproved.Although  human	 labour and skill are required both  in	 theperformance   of  the  basic  as  well	as   the   subseqentoperations,  it is only in the case of the basic  operationsalone  that such skill and labour can be said to  have	beenspent  on  the	land itself, and  this	distinction  becomesimportant where they are disjointed and do103not form an integrated activity, as in the case of  productsof land that are of spontaneous growth where human skill andlabour	 are   spent  merely  in   fostering   the   growth,preservation and regeneration of such products.Judicial opinion is unanimous that products which grow	wildon the land or are of spontaneous growth and do not  involveany  human  skill or labour on the land, and  all  that	 theassessee  has  to  perform in respect of  them	is  only  tocollect them for consumption and marketing, are not productsof  agriculture	 and  the income derived from  them  is	 notagricultural  income  within the meaning Of S. 2(1)  Of	 theAct.When,  however, the assessee performs subsequent  operationson  these products of land, the nature of  those  operationswill  have to be determined in the light of  the  principlesenunciated above.Held  further, that there is no basis for the argument	thatthe  demarcation  of agriculture and  forestry	as  separateheads of legislation in Entries 14 and 19 of List 11 of	 theSeventh	 Schedule  to  the Constitution has  the  effect  ofmaking them mutually exclusive.	 Income from forestry comingwithin	the definition of agricultural income' contained  inS.  2(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act will  be	agriculturalincome	under Entry 46 and thus fall within the	 purview  ofthat Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.165 of 1954.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated May 27,  1953,  ofthe  Calcutta High Court in Income-tax Reference No.  35  of1952.G. N. Joshi and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.Jyotish Chandra Pal and D. N. Mukherjee, for the respondent.1957.  May 23.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byBHAGWATI,  J.-This appeal with certificate of fitness  unders.  66A(2)  of	the Indian Income-tax Act (XI  of  1922)  isdirected against the Judgment and order of the High Court ofJudicature at Calcutta on a reference under s. 66(1) of	 theAct.The  respondent owns an area of 6,000 acres of	forest	landassessed  to  land revenue and grown with  Sal	and  Piyasaltrees.	 The  forest was originally of	spontaneous  growth,"not grown by the aid of human skill and104labour"	 and it has been in' existence for about 150  years.A considerable income is derived by the assessee from  salesof  trees  from this forest.  The assessment year  in  whichthis  forest income was last taxed under the Indian  Income-tax Act was 1923-24 but thereafter and till 1944-45 which isthe  assessment year in question, it was always left out  ofaccount.   The	assessment for 1944-45 also was	 first	madewithout	 including  therein  any  forest  income,  but	 theassessment  was	 subsequently  re-opened under	s.  34.	  Inresponse to a, notice under s. 22(2) read with s. 34 of	 theAct,  the  respondent submitted a return showing  the  grossreceipt	 of Rs. 51,978 from the said forest.  A	 claim	was,however, made that the said income was not assessable  underthe  Act as it was agricultural income and was exempt  unders. 4(3) (viii) of the Act.  The Income Tax Officer  rejectedthis  claim and added a sum of Rs. 34,430 to the  assessableincome	as income derived from the forest after	 allowing  asum  of Rs. 17,548 as expenditure.  The Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  confirmed	 the assessment and the	 Income	 TaxAppellate Tribunal also was of opinion that the said  incomewas not agricultural income but was income derived from	 thesale of jungle produce of spontaneous growth and as such wasnot  covered by s. 2(1) of the Act.  At the instance of	 theassessee  the Tribunal referred to the High Court  under  s.66(1)  of  the Act two questions of law arising out  of	 itsorder, one of which was:"Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of this case,the  sum of Rs. 34,430 is "agricultural income" and as	suchis  exempt from payment of tax under section  4(3)(viii)  ofthe Indian Income TaxAct?"The  Tribunal submitted a statement of case from  which	 thefollowing facts appear as admitted orestablished :"  (i) The area covered by the forest is about 6,000  acres,trees growing being Sal and Piyasal;(ii)It	is of spontaneous growth being about 150 years	old.It  is	not  a forest grown by the aid of  human  skill	 andlabour;105(iii)The  forest  is  occasionally  parcelled  out  for	 thepurposes of sale and the space from which trees sold are outaway is guarded by forest guards to protect offshoots;(iv)It	has  been satisfactorily  proved  that	considerableamount of human labour and care is being applied year  afteryear  for keeping the forest alive as also for reviving	 theportions  that	get denuded as a result	 of  destruction  bycattle and other causes;(v)The	staff  is employed by the assessee  to	perform	 thefollowing specific operations:(a)  Pruning,(b)  Weeding,(c)  Felling,(d)  Clearing,(e)  Cutting of channels to help the flow of rainwater,(f)  Guarding the trees against pests and other	 destructiveelements,(g)  Sowing  of seeds after digging of the soil	 in  denudedareas."The  Tribunal found that the employment of human labour	 andskill in items (a) to (f) was necessary for the	 maintenanceand  upkeep of any forest of spontaneous growth.   Regardingitem (g), however, it found that the said operation had beenperformed only occasionally and over a small fraction of thearea  where the original growth had been found to have	beencompletely denuded.  Such occasions were however few and farbetween,  the normal process being that whenever a tree	 wascut,  a stump of about 6" height was left intact which	sentforth  off-shoots all round bringing about fresh  growth  incourse of time.	 This went on perpetually unless an area gototherwise completely denuded.The  reference	was heard by the High Court  and-  the	HighCourt  held  that  actual cultivation of the  land  was	 notrequired  and as human labour and skill were spent  for	 thegrowth	of  the	 forest	 the  income  from  the	 forest	 wasagricultural  income.	It accordingly	answered  the  abovequestion in the affirmative.  The14106Revenue	 obtained the requisite certificate of	fitness	 forappeal to this Court and hence this appeal.The question that arises for consideration in this appeal iswhether	 income	 derived from the sale of  Sal	and  Piyasaltrees  in  the	forest	owned  by  the	assessee  which	 wasoriginally a forest of spontaneous growth "not grown by	 theaid  of	 human	skill  and labour"  but	 on  which  forestryoperations  described  in  the statement of  case  had	beencarried on by the assessee involving considerable amount  ofexpenditure of human skill and labour is agricultural incomewithin the meaning Ofs.   2(1) and as such exempt from payment of tax unders.   4(3)(viii) of the Indian Income-tax Act.Section 2(1) of the Act defines agricultural incomeand  states  (so far as it is relevant for the	purposes  ofthis appeal):(1)  "agricultural income" means(a)  any rent or revenue derived from land which is used foragricultural  purposes,	 and  is either	 assessed  to  land-revenue	 in  the taxable territories or subject to  a  localrate assessed and collected by officers of the Government assuch :(b)  any income derived from such land by:(i)  agriculture, or(ii) the performance by a cultivator or receiver of rent-in-kind  of any process ordinarily employed by a cultivator  orreceiver  of  rent-in-kind to render the produce  raised  orreceived by him fit to be taken to market, or(iii)	  the  sale by a cultivator or receiver	 of  rentin-kind of the produce raised or received by him, in respect ofwhich no process has been performed other than a process  ofthe nature described in sub- clause (ii)  ..............................................................Section 4(3) of the Act provides:-"  (3)	Any  income, profits or	 gains	falling	 within	 thefollowing classes shall not be included in the total  incomeof the person receiving them;  ...........................................................(viii) Agricultural income..................107Even though "agricultural income" which is exempted under s.4 (3) (viii) of the Act is defined ins.   2(1) as above, there is no definition of "agriculture"or   "agricultural purpose" to be found in the Act and ittherefore falls to be determined what is the connotation  ofthese terms.An  argument  based on entries 14 and 19 of List II  of	 theSeventh	 Schedule to the Constitution may be disposed of  atonce.	 It  was  urged	 that  entry  No.  14  referred	  toagriculture  including agricultural education  and  researchprotection  against pests and prevention of  plant  diseaseswhile  entry  No.  19  referred to  forests  and  there	 wastherefore  a clear line of demarcation	between	 agricultureand  forests  with  the result that forestry  could  not  becomprised  within  agriculture.	 If forestry  was  thus	 notcomprised within agriculture, any income from forestry couldnot  be	 agricultural income and the income derived  by	 theassessee  from	the sale of the forest trees  could  not  beagricultural income at all, as it was not derived from	landby  agriculture	 within	 the meaning of	 the  definition  ofagricultural  income  given in the  Indian  Income-tax	Act.This  argument, however, does not take account of  the	factthat the entries in the lists of the Seventh Schedule to theConstitution  are  heads  of legislation  which	 are  to  beinterpreted  in	 a liberal manner  comprising  within  theirscope all matters incidental thereto.  They are not mutuallyexclusive.   If the assessee plants on a vacant	 site  treeswith  a	 view that they should grow into a  forest,  as	 forexample, Casuarina plantations and expends labour and  skillfor  that purpose, the income from such trees would  clearlybe agricultural produce.  It has to be remembered that	eventhough this demarcation between agriculture and forestry wasavailable in the Lists contained in the Seventh Schedule  tothe  Government	 of  India Act, 1935,  no  such	 demarcationexisted in the Devolution Rules made under the Government ofIndia  Act, 1919, and in any event the definition  of  agri-cultural income with which we are concerned was incorporatedin  the	 Indian	 Income-tax Acts as early as  1886,  if	 notearlier: vide s. 5 of the Indian Income-tax108Act,  1886 (II of 1886).  It has also to be remembered	thatinspite of this demarcation between agriculture and  forestsin  the	 Constitution, taxes on agricultural  income  are  aseparate  head	under  entry 46 of List II  of	the  SeventhSchedule  and would comprise within their scope even  incomefrom  forestry	operations  provided  it  falls	 within	 thedefinition  of	agricultural income which according  to	 thedefinition given under Art. 366(1) means agricultural incomeas  defined for the purposes of the enactments	relating  toIndian Income-tax.The  terms " agriculture " and " agricultural  purpose"	 nothaving	been defined in the Indian Income-tax Act,  we	mustnecessarily  fall back upon the general sense in which	theyhave  been understood in common parlance.  "Agriculture"  inits root sense means ager, a field and culture, cultivation,cultivation  of field which -'of course implies	 expenditureof human skill and labour upon land.  The term has, however,acquired a wider significance and that is to be found in thevarious	 dictionary  meanings  ascribed to it.	 It  may  bepermissible  to look the dictionary meaning of the  term  inthe  absence  of  any definition  thereof  in  the  relevantstatutes.   As	was  observed by Lord Coleridge,  in  R.  v.Peters (1):I  am quite aware that dictionaries are not to be  taken  asauthoritative  exponents  of the meanings of words  used  inActs of Parliament, but it is a wellknown rule of courts  oflaw that words should be taken to be used in their  ordinarysense,	and we are therefore sent for instruction  to  thesebooks."Cozens-Hardy, M. R., also said in Camden (Marquis) v. I.R.C.(2):"It  is	 for the Court to interpret the statute as  best  itmay.  In so doing the Courts may no doubt assist  themselvesin the discharge of their duty by any literary help they canfind,  including  of  course the  consultation	of  standardauthors	  and  reference  to  wellknown	 and   authoritativedictionaries.  "(1) (1886) 16 Q.B.D. 636, 641.(2) [1914] 1 K. B. 64 1, 647.109Turning therefore to the dictionary meaning of agriculture "we find Webster's New International Dictionary describing itas " the art or science of cultivating the ground, includingrearing	 and  management of livestock,	husbandry,  farming,etc.  and  also	 including  in	its  broad  sense   farming,horticulture,  forestry,  butter and '	cheese-making  etc."Murray's'  Oxford Dictionary describes it as "	the  scienceand  art  of  cultivating the  soil;  including	 the  alliedpursuits  of gathering in the crop and	rearing	 live-stock;tillage,  husbandry,  farming  (in the	widest	sense)".  InBouvier's  Law Dictionary quoting the  Standard	 Dictionary"agriculture  " is defined as " the cultivation of  soil	 forfood products or any other useful or valuable growths of thefield  of  garden; tillage, husbandry; also,  by  extension,farming,  including any industry practised by cultivator  ofthe  soil in connection with such cultivation,	as  breedingand  rearing  of  stock, dairying, etc.	  The  science	thattreats of the cultivation of the soil.	"In Corpus Juris the term " agriculture " has been understoodto  mean:  "  art  or science  of  cultivating	the  ground,especially  in	fields or large	 quantities,  including	 thepreparation of the soil, the planting of seeds, the  raisingand  harvesting	 of  crops, and	 the  rearing,	feeding	 andmanagement  of live- stock; tillage, husbandry and  farming.In  its	 general sense the word also includes  gardening  orhorticulture.  "Bhashyam  Ayyangar  J. in Murugesa  Chetti  v.	ChinnathambiGoundan(1)   gave  the	following  dictionary  meanings	  ofagriculture  as culled out from the Century  Dictionary	 andAnderson's Dictionary of Law:"  The primary meaning of agriculture is the cultivation  ofthe ground (The Century Dictionary) and in its general senseit  is	the  cultivation of the ground for  the	 purpose  ofprocuring vegetables and fruits for the use of man and beastincluding  gardening  or  horticulture and  the	 raising  orfeeding of cattle and other stock (Anderson's Dictionary  ofLaw).	Its less general and more ordinary signification  isthe cultivation -with the plough and in large areas in orderto raise(1)  (1901) I.L.R. 24 Mad. 421,423.110food for man and beast (The Century Dictionary) or, in otherwords,	"that  species of cultivation which is	intended  toraise  grain  and  other field crops  for  man	and  beast."(Anderson's Dictionary of Law).	 Horticulture, which denotesthe  cultivation  of  garden or orchards, is  a	 species  ofagriculture in its primary and more general sense."Ramesam J. in Panadai Pathan v. Ramasami Chetti (1) referredto the following connotation of 'agriculture':"Wharton's   Law   Lexicon   adopts   the   definition	  of,,agriculture"	 in  8	Edw.   VII,  c.	 36,  as   including"horticulture, forestry, and the use of land for any purposeof  husbandry  etc.   In 10 Edw.  VII, c. 8 s.	41,  it	 wasdefined	 so  as to include the use of land  as	"meadow"  orpasture land or orchard or osier or woodland, or for  marketgardens,  nursery grounds or allotments, etc.  In 57 and  58Viet.  c.  30  s. 22, the term	agricultural  property'	 wasdefined	 so  as to include agricultural	 land,	pasture	 andwoodland, etc."These  are  the	 various meanings ascribed  to	the  term  "agriculture"  in various dictionaries and it is	 significantto note that the term has been used both in the narrow senseof  the	 cultivation  of the field and the  wider  sense  ofcomprising all activities in relation to the land  includinghorticulture,  forestry, breeding and rearing of  livestock,dairying, butter and cheesemaking, husbandry etc.It was urged on behalf of the assessee that the Court shouldaccept	the  wider  significance of  the  term	and  includeforestry operations also within its connotation even  thoughthey  did not involve tilling of the land, sowing of  seeds,planting,  or  similar work on the land.  The  argument	 wasthat  tilling of the land, sowing of the seeds	planting  orsimilar	 work  on  the	land  were  no	doubt	agriculturaloperations and if they were part of the forestry  operationscarried	 on by the assessee the subsequent operations  wouldcertainly be a, continuation of the same and would thereforeacquire the characteristic of agricultural operations.	 Butthe(1)  (1922) I.L.R. 45 Mad. 710.absence of these basic operations would not necessarily makeany difference to the character of the subsequent operationsand would not divest them of their character of agriculturaloperations,  so that if in a particular case one found	thatthe  forest was of spontaneous growth, even so	if  forestryoperations  were carried on in such forests for the  purposeof  furthering the growth of forest trees, these  operationswould  also enjoy the character of agricultural	 operations.If  breeding and rearing of live-stock, dairying butter	 andcheese-making  etc.,  could  be comprised  within  the	term"agriculture",	it was asked, why should these also  be	 notclassed as agricultural operations.Considerable stress was laid on the fact that s.  4(3)(viii)of the Act enacted a provision in regard to the exemption of"agricultural  income" from assessment and it was  contendedthat exemptions should be liberally construed.	Reliance wasplaced	on  the	 observations of Vishwanatha  Sastri  J.  inCommissioner of Income-tax, Madras v. K. E. Sundara Mudaliar(1):"  Exemption from tax granted by a Statute should  be  givenfull scope and amplitude and should not be whittled down  byimporting limitations not inserted by the Legislature."Mookerjee  J.  in Commissioner of  Agricultural	 Income-tax,West Bengal v. Raja Jagadish Chandra Deo Dhabal Deb (2) alsoexpressed himself similarly:"  and	the  present  day view seems to	 be  that  where  anexemption  is  conferred by statute, that clause has  to  beinterpreted liberally and in favour of the assessee but mustalways	be without any violence to the language	 used.	 Therule   must  be	 construed  together  with   the   exemptingprovisions, which must be regarded as paramount."He  also  quoted a passage from The Upper India	 Chamber  ofCommerce v. Commissioner of Income-tax, C.P. & U.P. (3) :(1)  [1950]  18 I.T.R. 259, 271. (3) [1947] 15	I.T.R.	263;A.I.R.1948 All.70(2)  [1949] 17 I.T.R. 426, 438.112" It is needless to observe that, as in the present case, weare concerned with the interpretation of an exemption clausein  a  taxing  statute,	 that clause  must  be,	 as  far  aspossible, liberally construed and in favour of the assessee,provided no violence is done to the language used."It was also pointed out that " Taxes on agricultural  income"  formed  a  head of legislation specified in	item  46  ofList.II	 of  the Seventh Schedule to  the  Constitution	 andshould	 be  liberally	construed,  with  the  result	thatagriculture  should be understood in the wider	significanceof  the	 term  and  all	 agricultural  income  derived	fromagriculture  or so understood should be included within	 thecategory.  There was authority for the proposition that	 theexpression  " agricultural land " mentioned in Entry  21  ofList  II of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of  IndiaAct,  1935, should be interpreted in its wider	significanceas  including lands which are used or are capable  of  beingused  for  raising any valuable plants or trees or  for	 anyother  purpose	of  husbandry.	(see  Sarojinidevi  v.	ShriKrishna	 Anjanneya  Subrahmanyam (1) and Megh Raj  v.  AllahRakhia (2).While  recognizing  the force of the  above  expressions  ofopinion	 we cannot press them into service in favour of	 theassessee  for the simple reason that "agricultural income  "has  been defined in the Constitution itself in Art.  366(1)to  mean agricultural income as defined for the purposes  ofenactments  relating  to  Indian incometax and	there  is  adefinition of " agricultural income " to be found in s. 2(1)of the Indian Income-tax Act.  We have therefore got to lookto the terms of the definition itself and construe the	sameregardless of any other consideration, though, in so far  asthe terms " agriculture " and " agricultural purposes "	 areconcerned, we feel free in view of the same not having	beendefined in the Act itself, to consider the various  meaningswhich have been ascribed to the same in the legal and  otherdictionaries.(1) I.L.R. [1945] Mad. 61.     (2) [1942] F.C.R. 53, 62.			    113We  may also note here the dictionary meanings of the  terms"Forestry" and "Cultivation." The Shorter Oxford Dictionary,Vol.1,	page  735, gives the meaning of	 "forestry"  as	 the"science  and  art  of	forming	 and  cultivating   forests,management of growing timber."Webster's  New International Dictionary, Vol. 1,  page	990,gives the following meaning of forestry:"  Science  and art of farming, caring for,  or	 cultivatingforests; the management of growing timber."Webster's New International Dictionary.	 Vol.  1, page	643,while talking of cultivation says that "to cultivate"  means"(i)  to prepare, or to prepare and use, for the raising  ofcrops;	to  till; as, to cultivate the soil;  to  loosen  orbreak  up  the soil about (growing crop or plants)  for	 thepurpose	  of   killing	weeds,	etc.,  especially   with   acultivator, as to cultivate the corn;(2)to  raise,  or  foster the growth of, by  tillage  or  bylabour	and  care; to produce by culture;  as  to  cultivateroses; to cultivate oysters."Whether	 the  narrower	or  the	 wider	sense  of  the	termagriculture" should be adopted in a particular case  dependsnot  only  upon the provisions of the  various	statutes  inwhich	the  same  occurs  but	also  upon  the	 facts	 andcircumstances  of each case.  The definition of the term  inone  statute does not afford a guide to the construction  ofthe same term in another statute and the sense in which	 theterm  has been understood in the several statutes  does	 notnecessarily throw any light on the manner in which the	termshould be understood generally.	 The decided cases  disclosea  variety of opinions in regard to the connotation  of	 theterms "agriculture" and "agricultural purposes." At one time"agriculture"  was  understood	in  its	 primary  sense	  ofcultivation  of	 field and that too for production  of	foodcrops	for   human  beings  and   beasts.    This   limitedinterpretation	could not be adhered to even though  tillingof  the land, sowing of the seeds, planting or similar	workon  the	 land were the basic operations, the  scope  of	 thecrops  produced	 was enlarged and all crops  raised  on	 theland, whether they be food crops or not were included in theproduce	 raised by agriculture.	 There was  however  anotherschool of thought15114which  extended the term "agriculture" and  included  withinits  connotation  not  only  the  products  raised  by	 thecultivation of the land but also allied activities which hadrelation to the land and operations which had the effect  offostering  the growth, preservation and maintenance as	alsothe regeneration of the products of the land, thus  bringingwithin	 its  compass  not  only  the	basic	agriculturaloperations but also the further operations performed on	 theproducts  of the land even though they were not	 necessarilyaccompanied  by	 these	preliminary  basic  operations.	  Asagainst these cases which dealt with these preliminary basicoperations  and	 also  the  further  operations	 either	  bythemselves or in conjunction with the former which of coursenecessarily  involved  the expenditure of  human  skill	 andlabour	 in  carrying  out  those  operations,	there	wereinstances  of  products of land which grew wild or  were  ofspontaneous  growth without the expenditure of	human  skilland labour and which it was agreed on all hands could not becomprised  within  "agriculture" and the income	 from  whichcould  not  fall  within  the  definition  of  "agriculturalincome".  We shall briefly discuss the various cases dealingwith  these  different	aspects	 and  try  to  evolve	someprinciple  therefrom  which would serve as a  guide  in	 thedetermination of the question before us.Kunhaven Haji v. Mavan (1) was the earliest case in which itwas  held  that	 a lease of a coffee garden  was  not  an  Iagricultural  lease  within  the  meaning  of  Transfer	  ofProperty  Act,	s. 117.	 The case however  concerned  itselfwith  the situation where as far as the Court  could  gatherfrom  the  Karar the lease was of the  coffee  plants  only.There was no further discussion of the legal position and itmay  be	 noted that Shephard, J., who was a  party  to	thisdecision  stated  in the later case of	Murugesa  Chetti  v.Chinnathambi Gounden (2) that he was wrong in the opinion heexpressed -with regard to a coffee garden in this case.Murugesa  Chetti  v.  Chinnathambi  Goundan  (2)  also	 wasconcerned with s. 117 of the Transfer of Property Act.	 Thelease there was a lease of land for(1) (1893) I.L.R. 17 Mad. 98.(2) (1901) I.L. R. 24 Mad. 421,423.115the  cultivation  of betel and the Court held  that  such  alease  was  an	agricultural lease  falling  under  s.	117.Bhashyam  Ayyangar, J., who delivered the main	judgment  ofthe  Court discussed the dictionary meanings of the  term  "agriculture  " and stated that in s. 117 of the Transfer  ofProperty  Act  it  was used in its  more  general  sense  ascomprehending  the raising of vegetables, fruits  and  othergarden	products  as food for men or beast, though  some  ofthem may be regarded in England as products of	horticultureas  distinguished  from	 agriculture.	The  learned   Judgeconsidered  the	 distinction between " agriculture "  and  "horticulture " and observed :"  The	distinction  between agriculture  when	it  is	usedotherwise  than	 in its primary and more general  sense	 andhorticulture  is  a fine one even in England and  in  India,especially,  it	 will be impossible in the case	 of  severalproducts of the land to draw a line between agriculture	 andhorticulture   according  to  English  notions.	  The	onlypractical distinction which I can suggest and one which willgive  effect to the policy of the Legislature  in  exemptingagricultural  leases  from the operations  of  section	107,etc.,  of  the	Transfer of Property Act  is  to  regard  asagriculture,  as distinguished from horticulture,  not	onlyall  field  cultivation	 by  tillage  but  also	 all  gardencultivation for the purpose chiefly of procuring  vegetablesor  fruits as food for man or beast and other  products	 fitfor human consumption by way of luxury, if not as an articleof diet."He  then discussed the policy of exemptions setting out	 theobservations of Cave J. in Ellis & Co. v. Hilse(l):" The very object of this exemption is the wellknown one  offavouring  agriculture-an old object of English	 Legislationin favour of a very important industry ",and stated:" This observation of Mr. Justice Cave will apply with	muchgreater	 force	in  this  country  where  the	agriculturalindustry is more, important than in England and is one	thatis common to wet cultivation(1)  (1889) L.R. 23 Q.B.D. 24.116as  to	garden and dry cultivation, the object of  all	suchcultivation being chiefly to procure food for men and cattleand other products of the soil which are usually consumed bythe people as gentle stimulants or by way of luxury.   Betelleaf is an article of daily consumption with all classes  inthis country as tobacco leaf is with most classes and  betelvine  is generally grown side by side with plantations,	 theproducts of which are among the chief articles of  vegetablefood."The  lease  in that case being one for	the  cultivation  ofbetel  was  therefore  held to	be  agricultural  lease	 andShephard,  J.,	agreed	with this  conclusion  revising	 theopinion	 which he had expressed earlier in Kunhavan Haji  v.Mavan (supra).In Raja of Venkatagiri v. Ayyappa Reddy (1) the question waswhether	 land usually fit only for pasturing cattle and	 notfor  cultivation, i.e., ploughing and  raising	agriculturalcrops,	was  "ryoti" land, though it might  have  been	"oldwaste" and a tenant of such land was a "ryot" and any amountagreed	to be paid for pasturing cattle was " rent "  withinthe definitions of s. 3 of the Madras Estates Land Act (Mad.I of 1908).  The Court held that such land was not " ryoti "land  inasmuch as it was not fit for ploughing	and  raisingagricultural crops.  The ordinary meaning of " agriculture "was taken to be " the raising of annual or periodical  graincrops  through	the operations of ploughing,  sowing,  etc."(Per Sadasiva Ayyar, J., at page 741).The Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras v. Zamindar  ofSingampatti   (2)  was	a  reference  arising  out  of	 theassessment  for	 income	 tax under Act VII of  1918  of	 theincome	derived by the Zamindar of Singampatti from  forestsand  fisheries	within	the ambit  of  his  Zamindari.	 Theassessee  objected to the assessment (i) on the ground	thatthe income was agricultural income within the meaning of  s.4  of the Act and, therefore, not chargeable to	 income-tax;(ii) that the(1) (1913) I.L.R..38 Mad. 738.(2) (1922) I.L. R. 45 Mad, 5 18 (F.B.)117assessment  was	 illegal as contravening the  terms  of	 hispermanent  sanad  for the Zamindari and	 the  provisions  ofRegulation  XXV	 of 1802.  The Court held'  that  where	 thepeishkush  of  a  permanently settled estate  was  fixed  incommutation not only of the rentals of the cultivated  landsbut  also of all income which might be derived from  forestsor fisheries, both under the terms of the sanad and s. I  ofRegulation  XXV	 of  1802, these incomes  were	exempt	fromfurther taxation by the Government, and s. 3 of the  Income-tax  Act did not abrogate this exemption.  In view  of	thisconclusion the Court did not think it necessary to determinewhether	 income	 from forests or fisheries  came  under	 thedefinition  of " agricultural income." The  Court,  however,pointed	 out  that " a reference to Murray's  and  Webster'sdictionaries  shows  that  the word  "agriculture  ",  whilesometimes used in the narrow sense of the art or science  ofcultivating  the ground, is also used in a much wider  senseso  as to include even " forestry ", according	to  Webster.In which sense it was used by the framers of the  Income-taxAct  would be a matter for determination and to this end  itwould  not be out of place to consider the  probable  reasonfor  the exemption of agricultural income  from	 income-tax.No  other reason is suggested than the equity  of  exemptingfrom  further burden income which had already paid  toll  tothe State in the shape of land revenue."The  question,	therefore, whether the income  from  forestswould be " agricultural income " within the meaning of s.  4of  the Income-tax Act' was thus left open and the  decisionthat  income from forests was not liable to  income-tax	 wasreached	 under the terms of the Sanad of s. I of  RegulationNo. 25 of 1802.Kaju  Mal  v. Salig Ram(1) was concerned inter alia  with  afield  in which tea was grown and the question	was  whetherthe  land  fell	 within the definition	of  Cc	agriculturalincome	" or " village immoveable property " as given in  s.3(i)  and  (ii) of the Punjab Pre-emption  Act,	 1905.	 TheCourt  held that fields planted with tea bushes were  fieldsused for agricultural(1)  (1919) P.R. NO. 19, P. 237.118purposes and this decision was affirmed by the Privy councilin Kaju Mall v. Salig Ram(1).  It was held that the words  "agricultural  purposes	"  in  s.  2  (iii)  of	 the  PunjabAlienation  of Land Act, 1900, included the  cultivation  oftea;  consequently, land which was not occupied as the	siteof  any building in a town or  Village, and was	 occupied orlet  for  the cultivation of tea was  "	 agricultural  land"within the meaning of s. 3(i) of the Punjab Pre-emption Act,1905.Emperor	 v. Probhat Chandra Barua  (2) was a case under	 theIndian Income-tax Act and the classes of income derived frompermanently settled estates were "1. Income from  fisheries.2. Income from land used for stacking timber. 3. Income frompasturage."  The  income  from	the  first  two	 heads	 wascertainly  not	agricultural income or income  derived	from"land  which is used for agricultural purposes"	 within	 themeaning of ss. 2 and 4 of the Act.  But income derived	frompasturage was held to be agricultural income which could notlawfully be charged with income-tax.  There was a differenceof  opinion between Rankin, J., and Page, J., in  regard  tothe liability of income from fisheries and income from	landused  for stacking timber based on the construction  of	 thePermanent  Settlement  Regulations  of 1793.   But  that  isimmaterial  for our present purposes.  What is	material  isthat both the learned Judges were unanimous in their opinionthat  income  from pasturage was income derived	 from  "landwhich is used for agricultural purposes" and was, therefore,within the exemption given by a. 4(3)(viii) to	agriculturalincome as defined by s. 2(1)(a) of the Act.In  Kesho  Prasad Singh v. Sheo Pragash Ojha (3)  the  PrivyCouncil	 held  that  a	grove  was  not	 land  "  held	 foragricultural  purposes " within the meaning of s. 70 of	 theAgra  Tenancy Act, 1901, affirming the decision of the	HighCourt of Allahabad that it was impossible to hold that	thatsection had, any application whatever to such a property -asthe grove in fact was.(1)(1923) I.L.R. 5 Lah. 50.(2)(1924) I.L.R. 51 Cal. 504.(3) (1924) I.L.R. 46 All. 831.119The  Commissioner  of  Income-tax, Madras  v.  T.  ManavedanTirumalpad (1) was also a decision under the Indian  Income-tax Act (XI of 1922) and the assessee there was assessed  bythe  Income Tax Officer for the year 1928-29 on	 the  amountreceived  by the sale of timber trees cut and  removed	fromthe  forests.  The question was whether these  amounts	wereliable as such to income-tax and the Court observedderived	 from the sale of paddy which is grown on  land	 andthe income derived from the sale of timber cut in a  forest;but  the  profits  earned from the sale of  paddy  would  beassessable to income-tax but for the special exemption givento that income in the Incometax Act, by reason of its  beingagricultural income.  There is such exemption in the case ofincome derived from the sale of timber."There  is no further discussion to be found in the  judgmentwhich  would  throw  light  on	the  question  whether	suchreceipts  by  the assessee were agricultural income  and  assuch exempt from income-tax.The   later   decision	 of  the  Madras   High	  Court	  inChandrasekhara	Bharathi  Swamigal v.  Duraisami  Naidu	 (2)however	  contains  an	elaborate  discussion  as   to	 theconnotation of the term "agriculture ". The case arose underthe  Madras  Estates  Land Act (Mad.  I	 of  1908)  and	 thequestion which the Court had to consider was whether growingCasuarina  trees, i.e., trees for fuel, was an	agriculturalpurpose so as to make the person who held the land for	thatpurpose a " ryot " within the meaning of the Madras  EstatesLand  Act.   The  Court	 held that  land  held	for  growingCasuarina   trees  was	not  land  held	 for   purposes	  ofagriculture and the person holding the land for that purposewas  not  a " ryot " within the meaning of the	Act.   Whiledelivering  the judgment of the Court Reilly,  J.,  embarkedupon a consideration of what the term " agriculture "  meantand  came  to the conclusion that agriculture could  not  bedefined	 by the nature of the product cultivated but  shouldbe defined rather by(1) (1930) I.L.R. 54 Mad. 21 (S.B.)(2) (1931) I.L.R. 54 Mad. 900.120the  circumstances in which the cultivation was carried	 on.He observed at page 902:"  I  agree  with the remark of Shephard,  J.,	in  MurugesaChetti	v. Chinnathambi Goundan(l) that a man who plants  ormaintains trees for firewood is not in ordinary parlance  anagriculturist.	  If  we  take	the  strict  meaning  of   "agriculture  "	according to its derivation,  it  means	 thecultivation of a field, the cultivation of an open space, asopposed to horticulture, the cultivation of a  comparativelysmall  enclosed space.	The cultivation either of the  fieldin  agriculture or of the garden in horticulture  cannot  beconfined,  I think, to any particular product.	 With  greatrespect,  I  do	 not  agree with  the  opinion	of  BhashyamAyyangar, J:, in Murugesa Chetti v. Chinnathambi  Goundan(l)that agriculture implies production of things useful as foodfor men or beast or other products fit for human consumptionby  way of luxury.  That appears to me to be too  narrow  aninterpretation.	  Still	 less do I agree  with	the  opinionexpressed  by Sadasiva Ayyar, J., in Raja of Venkatagiri  v.Ayyappa Reddi that agriculture is confined to the productionof grain crops.	 I can see no reason why the cultivation  inopen  spaces of such useful products as cotton,	 jute,	flaxand  hemp  should  not	be  agriculture.   Indeed  I   thinkagriculture cannot be defined by the nature of the  productscultivated but should be defined rather by the circumstancesin which the cultivation is carried on. In some cases it hasbeen  suggested that agriculture is confined to tillage.   Ithink it can easily be shown that agriculture was carried onin this world before ploughs were invented.  In the  presentday  in many places cultivation is done with spades and	 notwith ploughs, but the planting of timber or firewood  trees,which are to stand on the land for a considerable number  ofyears,	forming plantations or woods or forests, appears  tome to be opposed to the idea of agriculture, the cultivationof  an	open  space.  It is true that  for  the	 purpose  ofgrowing	 trees in a plantation it may be necessary first  toprepare the land.(1) (1901) I.L.R. 24 Mad. 42I, 423.(2) (1913) I.L.R..38 Mad. 738.121Later on it may be necessary to protect and water the  youngplants.	  Still	 later it may be necessary to thin  out	 theplantation.  But, when the land is covered with trees  whichhad to stand on it for a number of years, sometimes as	longas a century, during most of which period the land itself isuntouched,  to	describe that as agriculture appears  to  meinappropriate.	 To my mind it is something  very  differentfrom the cultivation of a field or of an open space.  It maybe  noticed that in Kesho Prasad Singh v. Sheo Pragash	Ojha(1)  their  Lordships of the Privy Council approved  of	 theopinion	 expressed  by two learned judges of  the  AllahabadHigh  Court  that land let for a grove was not	let  for  anagricultural purpose.  It happened that the case then  underconsideration  was one arising under the Agra  Tenancy	Act.But  in	 that Act there is no definition  of  'agriculture'.Therefore  both	 the learned judges of	the  Allahabad	HighCourt and their Lordships of the Privy Council were, we	 maytake  it,  considering	what is the meaning of	the  word  Iagriculture' in its general sense.  I may mention also	thatin Commissioner of Income Tax v. Manavedan Tirumalpad (2)  aFull  Bench of this Court remarked that income from  cuttingtimber was not agricultural income."It  may	 be  noticed that the  learned	Judge  enlarged	 theconnotation  of the term "agriculture " by having regard  tothe  circumstances in which the cultivation was	 carried  onrather	than  the  nature of  the  products  cultivated	 andembraced  within  the  scope  of the  term  not	 merely	 theproduction  of	things useful as food for man  or  beast  orother  products fit for human consumption by way  of  luxurybut  also  such useful products as cotton,  jute,  flax	 andhemp,  though  he  stopped  short  at  those  products	 andhesitated to include therein growing of trees in  plantationwhere the land was covered with trees which have to stand onit for a number of years.The last case to be referred in this series is that of	DeenMohammad Mian v. Hulas Narain Singh(2)(1)(1924) I.L.R. 46 All. 831.(2) (1942) 23 Pat.  L.T. 143, 152.16122where  it was held that an orchard is an agricultural  land.It was observed:it The case of an orchard is quite different.  Orchard treesordinarily are, and can be presumed to have been, planted bymen after preparation of the ground which is cultivation andseasonal  crops	 are  gathered.	 Fruit	trees  also  requireseasonal  attention such as pruning and digging of the	soilaround	the roots and it cannot be said that this ceases  tobe  cultivation	 merely	 because  the  whole  tree  is	 notreplanted  every  year.................. In my	opinion	 theland in suit is agricultural land; it is land from which  bypreparing  the soil and planting and cultivating  trees	 theraiyat	expects	 to enjoy periodical returns in the  way  ofproduce for food."This  was  a  further  extension  of  the  idea	 which	 had'germinated  in	 the  opinion expressed by  Reilly,  J.,  inChandrasekhara Bharathi Swamigal v. C. P. Duraisami Naidu(1)and  even  plantation  of trees in orchards  which  did	 notrequire	 to  be	 replanted every year was  included  in	 theconnotation of the term "agriculture".A still further extension of the term is to be found in	 thefollowing  observations	 of Vishwanatha Sastri, J.,  in	 TheCommissioner of Income-tax, Madras v. K. E. Sundara Mudaliar(2) at p. 273:"  It is a matter of ordinary experience, at least  in	thispart of the country, that mango, cocoanut, palmyra,  orange,jack, arecanut, tamarind and other trees are planted usuallyin an -enclosed land, and that these trees do not yield	 anyfruit  or  crop in the early years of  their  growth.	Theyremain on the land for a long number of years yielding fruitonly  after  their  maturity.There  is	no  reason  why	 theplanting, rearing,  watering, fencing and protection of suchtrees and the  gathering  of their fruits during the  annualseasons	  should not be held to be "agriculture".  There  issome kind  of  cultivation or prodding of the  soil  at	 theinception when the planting is done and subsequently also atintervals.   In	 the. case of coffee grown on  hill  slopes,there is no ploughing or tillage as in the(1) (1931) I.L.R. 54 Mad. 900.(2) [1950] 18 I.T.R. 259, 271.123case  of  wet and dry -fields; but it cannot  be  maintainedthat  growing  coffee  is  not	an  agricultural  operation.Coffee and tea plants stand on the soil for many years,	 andtheir  produce	is gathered periodically.   In	the  padugailands or lands lying between the sandy bed and flood bank ofrivers,	 plantains  are	 grown in  many	 places	 in  deltaictracts.	 Young plants are often brought and planted in	pitsdug  for the purpose in a row with  sufficient	interspaces.Trenches  are dug by the side of a row of plantain trees  inorder  to catch and detain water.  The plantain	 trees	lastfor about two years, and from each tree off-shoots spring upand  grow  in  place of the parent tree.  There	 is  thus  anatural replenishment of the plantain garden.  It cannot  besaid  that the raising of plantains is not  an	agriculturalpurpose.   Similarly  in the case of  sugarcane	 the  plantsstand on the land for two years or a little more, and  thereare  usually  two cuttings.  Castor plants  stand  for	someyears  on the soil and the seeds are  periodically  gatheredin.   Bamboo is often planted in enclosed lands	 by  diggingpits,  filling them with sand and manure and  then  plantingthe young stalks in a bunch at suitable distances.  Wateringis  done for the first 2 or 3 years.  Every year,  the	landsurrounding  each  bamboo cluster is dug with  a  spade	 andsmall  earthen ridges are put up so as to catch	 and  retainrain  water.  Bamboo plants attain maturity in about 3 or  4years,	and the thorny branches which grow on the main	stemare   then  fit	 to  be	 cut  off  and	used   for   fencingpurposes..............................	I am unable  to	 seewhy these operations are not agricultural operations."The  cases  above  noted  all of  them	interpret  the	term"agriculture"  in  its	narrower sense, though	there  is  amarked	progress from the extremely narrow construction	 putupon  it  by  Bhashyam Ayyangar J.  in	Murugesa  Chetti  v.Chinnathambi  Goundan(1) to the somewhat  wider	 connotationthereof	 adopted  by Reilly J.	in  Chandrasekhara  BharathiSwamigal  v.  C.P. Duraisami Naidu (2) and  by	Vishwanatha,Sastri J. in The Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras v. K. E.Sundara(1) (1901) I.L.R. 24 Mad. 421, 423.(2) (1931) I.L.R. 54 Mad. 900.124Mudaliar(1)  It is interesting- to note that all  throughoutthese  cases runs the central idea of either tillage of	 theland  or sowing of seeds or planting or similar work on	 theland which invests the operation with the characteristic  ofagricultural  operations and whenever that central  idea  isfulfilled  there  is  the  user	 of  land  for	agriculturalpurposes   and	 the  income   derived	 therefrom   becomesagricultural income.There  were, on the other hand, decisions which	 interpretedthe  term "agriculture" in the wider sense as including	 allactivities in relation to the land, even though they did notcomprise these basic agricultural operations.  King  Emperorv.  Alexander  Allen(2) involved the interpretation  of	 theexpression  "land used solely for agricultural purposes"  insub-s.	(3) of s. 63 of the Madras  District  MunicipalitiesAct  (Mad.   IV of 1884) as amended by the  Madras  DistrictMunicipalities	Amendment  Act (Mad.  III of 1897)  and	 theCourt  held  that  the	lands  on  which  potatoes,   grain,vegetables, etc., were grown, as well as pasture land,	wereused  solely for agricultural purposes " within the  meaningof  the	 sub-section.  The Court adopted the  definition  ofagricultural  land given in the Agricultural Rates  Act	 (59and 60 Vict., Chap. 16) s. 9:"  The expression " agricultural land " means any land	usedas  arable, meadow, or pasture ground only, cottage  gardensexceeding  one-quarter of an acre, market  gardens,  nurserygrounds, orchards, or allotments, but does not include	landoccupied together with a house as a park, gardens other thanas aforesaid, pleasure grounds or any land kept or preservedmainly or exclusively for purposes of sport or recreation orland used as a race course."and  also  the	meaning ascribed to it	in  Murray's  OxfordEnglish Dictionary quoted above and observed:"  We  also  note  that it is there  pointed  out  that	 therestriction  of the word agriculture to tillage, as  in	 thefollowing quotation, is rare.  The lands were not fields foragriculture  but  pastures for cattle.	We believe  that  wecannot do better than follow these definitions in(1)  [1950] 18 I.T.R. 259, 271.	 (2) (1901) I.L.R.  25	Mad.627, 629,630.125attempting  to decide what, for the purposes  of  subsection(3) of section 63 of the Municipalities Act, are or are	 notlands used solely for agricultural purposes ..... We do	 notconsider that any distinction can be	drawn between  largeand small plots of lands on which  roots   of	grain	 arecultivated.   All  such land must be held to  be  land	usedsolely for agricultural purposes   Counsel has urged  beforeus that these so-called	 waste	lands are pasture lands	 andas such should be   held   to  be  lands  used	solely	 foragricultural purposes  If, therefore, it could be shown thatthese so-called waste lands were in reality pasture  groundsor  lands used for "rearing livestock", we should  certainlydecide	that  they were lands used solely  for	agriculturalpurposes."The  learned Judges there were influenced by the  dictionarymeaning	 of  the term agriculture as given in  Murray's	 NewOxford Dictionary and understood the term agriculture in thewiden sense as including the user of-land for rearing  live-stock also.In Panadai Pathan v. Ramaswami Chetti(1) a lease of land wasgiven  for  growing  casuarina trees and  the  question	 waswhether	 such a lease was a lease for agricultural  purposeswithin	the  meaning of s. 117 of the Transfer	of  PropertyAct.   The Court held that it was a lease  for	agriculturalpurposes   and	therefore  did	not  require  a	  registeredinstrument for its creation.  Spence J. in the course of hisjudgment differed from the opinion of Bhashyam Ayyangar, J.,in Murugesa Chetti v. Chinnathambi Goundan (2) that the wordagriculture  in	 its  more  general  sense  comprehends	 theraising	 of vegetables, fruits and other garden products  asfood for man or beast, if the learned Judge intended therebyto  limit  it to the raising of food products.	 For  to  sorestrict  the  word  would be  to  exclude  flower,  indigo,cotton, jute, flax, tobacco and other such cultivation.	  Healso  differed from the opinion expressed by Sadasiva  AyyarJ. in Seshayya v. Rajah of(1)  (1922) I.L.R. 45 Mad. 710.(2)  (1901) I.L.R. 24 Mad. 42I, 423.126Pittapur  (1) and Rajah of Venkatagiri v. Ayyappa Reddi	 (2)that  agriculture meant the raising of annual or  periodicalgrain  crops  through the operation  of	 ploughing,  sowing,etc.,  as such definition would exclude sugar cane,  indigo,tea,   flower,	 tobacco,   and	  betel	  cultivation	fromagriculture.  He then referred to the dictionary meaning  ofthe term "agriculture" as given in the Oxford Dictionary andthe Bouvier's Law Dictionary set out above and observed:"  In my opinion agriculture connotes the raising of  usefulor  valuable products which derive nutriment from  the	soilwith  the  aid of human skill and labour; and thus  it	willinclude horticulture, arboriculture and silviculture, in allcases  where growth of trees is effected by the	 expenditureof  human care and attention in such operations as those  ofploughing,  sowing, planting, pruning,	manuring,  watering,protecting etc.	 "Ramesam, J., who delivered a concurring judgment referred tothe  definition	 of  agriculture adopted  in  Wharton's	 LawLexicon and was of opinion that it would include the use  ofland as " meadow or pasture or orchard or osier or woodland,or  for market gardens, nursery grounds or allotments  etc."but would exclude all cultivation of fibrous plants such  ascotton,	 jute  and  linen and all  plants  used	 for  dyeingpurposes,  such	 as indigo etc., and all  timber  trees	 andflowering  plants etc.	According to him, the rearing  of  aCasuarina plantation requires some preparation of the groundand  subsequent	 care  by watering the	plants	and  he	 wastherefore of Opinion that rearing of Casuarina trees was  anagricultural  purpose  within the meaning of s. 117  of	 theTransfer of Property Act.It  may	 be  observed however that  according  to  both	 thelearned	 Judges	 some  preparation of  the  ground  or	someexpenditure  of human care and attention in such  operationsas those of ploughing, sowing, planting etc., was consideredessential  for	constituting these  operations	agriculturaloperations.In  Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  Burma  v.  Kokine  Dairy,Rangoon(3) the question was whether income(1)  (1916)  31	 M.L.J. 284; 1916 M.W.N. 396. (3)  [1938]  6I.T.R. 502, 509.(2)  (1913) I.L.R. 38 Mad. 738.127from  a	 dairy farm and the milk derived from  the  farm  isagricultural  income  and  exempt as  such  from  incometax.Roberts	 C.J.  who  delivered  the  opinion'  of  the  Courtobserved:"Where cattle are wholly stall-fed and not pastured upon theland  at  all,	doubtless it is trade  and  no	agriculturaloperation  is  being  carried on;  where  cattle  are  beingexclusively  or	 mainly pastured and are none the  less	 fedwith  small amounts of oil-cake or the like, it may well  bethat  the  income  derived from the sale of  their  milk  isagricultural  income.	But between the two  extremes  theremust  be  a number of varying degrees, and the task  of	 theIncome-tax  Officer  is	 to  apply  his	 mind  to  the	 twodistinctions  and to decide in any particular case on  whichside of the fence, if I may use the term, the matter falls."He  then referred to the case of Lean and Dickinson v.	Ball(1)  where  Lord Cullen had said that he  proceeded  on	 thefooting	 that the case, which was one dealing with  poultry-farming,  was one in which poultry derived sustenance  to  amaterial extent from the produce of the ground.This method of approach was on a par with the one adopted byLord  Wright  in Lord Glanely v. Wightman(2)  where  it	 wasobserved:" If authority were needed, the provisions just quoted do atleast  show that profits of occupation' include	 gains	fromthe   animal   produce	 as  well   as	 the   agricultural,horticultural,	  or   arboricultural	produce	   of	 thesoil;......................  equally it is obvious that	 therearing of animals, regarded as they must be as products  ofthe  soil-since	 it is from the soil that  they	 draw  theirsustenance  and	 on the soil that they liveis  a  source  ofprofit	from the occupation of land, whether  these  animalsare  for  consumption  as food (such as	 bullocks,  pigs  orchickens), or for the provision of food (such as cows, goatsor  fowls),  or	 for recreation (such  as  hunters  or	racehorses),  or  for use (such as draught or  -plough  horses).All  these  animals  are appurtenant to	 the  soil,  in	 therelevant  sense	 for this purpose, as much as  trees,  wheatcrops,	flowers	 or  roots though no doubt  they  differ  inobvious respects.  Nor(1)  (1925) 10 Tax Cas. 341.128is it now material towards determining what are products  ofoccupation  that  farming  has	developed  in  its  use	  ofmechanical appliances and power, not only in such matters asploughing,  reaping, threshing, and so forth, but  in  such'ancient	 methods of preparing its products as making  cream,butter	or  cheese.  The farmer is still  dealing  with	 theproducts of the soil, and Schedule B covers the income."The  House  of	Lords  were  dealing  with  the	 profits  ofoccupation of land not with income derived from user of landfor  agricultural purposes and therefore not  restricted  intheir  interpretation  of the term " occupation	 "  and	 allthese activities which were described therein might as	wellhave been comprised within the scope of the taxing statutes.What  we have, however, to see is whether  these  activitiesfall within the connotation of the terms " agriculture " and"  agricultural	 purpose " which are the only  terms  to  beconsidered for bringing the income derived therefrom  withinthe definition of agricultural income in s. 2 (1) (a) of theIndian Income-tax Act.In  Moolji Sicka & Co., In re(1) Derbyshire C.J.  understoodthe  term  ,agriculture"  in  a	 wider	sense  as  includingoperations  not	 only on the land itself but on	 the  shrubswhich  grew on the soil and were according to him a part  ofthe soil.  The assessees were manufacturers of biri, a	kindof cigarette consisting of tobacco wrapped in tendu  leaves.The  tendu plant was of entirely wild growth and  propagateditself without human agency in jungle and waste lands.	 Theassessees  had	taken  several villages on  "  lease  "	 forplucking the leaves of such plants and the work done by	 theassessees  consisted  in pruning the trees and	burning	 thedead  branches	and dried leaves lying on the  ground.	 TheCourt held that the profits accruing to the assessees by thesale  of tendu leaves was not exempt as agricultural  incomebut  to	 the  extent to which pruning  of  the	tendu  shruboccurred,  there  was  in  a technical	and  legal  sense  acultivation of the soil(1)  [1939] 7 I.T.R. 493.129in which the shrub grew and therefore so much of the  incomeas was shown by the. assessee to be profit derived from	 thecollection  and	 preparation, so as to make them fit  to  betaken to the market, of tendu leaves produced by the pruningof the tendu shrubs was exempt as agricultural income  unders.  2 (1) and s. 4 (3) (viii) of the Indian Income-tax	Act.The learned Chief Justice observed:" Cutting back or pruning the wild tendu clearly contributesto the growth of the leaves in that shrub and I am  preparedto  hold that the pruning of the shrub is a  cultivation  ofthe  shrub and as the shrub grows in the soil and as a	partof it, is a cultivation of the soil in a legal and technicalsense."The  word  cultivation was here understood  by	the  learnedChief  Justice not only in the sense of cultivation  of	 thesoil  but  in the sense of cultivation of the  tendu  shrubswhich grew on the soil and were therefore a part of it.	 Theoperations which were performed on the shrubs were certainlynot operations performed on the soil itself and the  opinionexpressed  by the learned Chief Justice has certainly  givenan  extended meaning to the term cultivation and  used	withreference to the soil.	It is significant however to observethat  cultivation  of the soil was considered  an  essentialingredient which rendered the income derived from the  tenduleaves	agricultural  income  within  the  meaning  of	 itsdefinition in s. 2(1)(a) of the Act.Commissioner of Income-Tax, Madras v. K. E. Sundara Mudaliar(1)  contains  a  further  extension  of  this	idea   whereVishwanatha Sastri J. observed at p. 274:" Pasture land used for the feeding and rearing of livestockis land used for agricultural purposes: Emperor v. AlexanderAllen  (2) . Rearing of livestock such as  cows,  buffaloes,sheep and poultry is included in "husbandry".  These animalsare  considered	 to be the products of the soil,  just	likecrops,	roots, flowers and trees, for they live on the	landand  derive their sustenance from the soil and its  produce:Glanely	 v. Wightman(3) ; Commissioner of Income-tax,  Burmav.(1) [1950] 18 I.T.R. 259, 27I.	(3) [1933] 1 A.C. 618 (H.L.)638.(2)  [1901] I.L.R. 25 Mad. 627, 629, 630.17130Kokine	Dairy Co. (1) It is therefore not legitimate, in  myopinion,   to	confine	 the  word  "agriculture"   to	 thecultivation of an open field with annual or periodical cropslike   wheat,  rice,  ragi,  cotton,  tobacco,	jute,	etc.Casuarina  is usually raised on dry lands of  poor  quality,and  it	 is usual to find the same land	 used  alternatively"for  the cultivation of ordinary cereal crops	like  groundnut,  gingelly, cholam, kambu, etc., and for the raising  ofCasuarina  plantations.	 The land bears the  dry  assessmentwhatever be the nature of the crop raised."This enlarged connotation of the term "agriculture" has beentinged by the dictionary meanings ascribed to it in Murray'sOxford Dictionary and the Webster's Dictionary quoted  abovewhich  understood the term as including the allied  pursuitsof  rearing, feeding and management of live-stock  and	alsoincluding  husbandry,  farming horticulture,  etc.,  in	 thewidest	sense, as also butter, cheese-making etc.  We  shallhave to consider at the appropriate stage as to how far suchenlargement  is	 warranted,  by the definition	of  "  agri-cultural  income  " as given in s. 2 (1) (a) of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act.The  cases above noted all of them involve some	 expenditureof human skill and labour either on the land or the  produceof the land, for without such expenditure there would be  noquestion  of  the  income  derived  from  such	land   beingagricultural  income.  Where, however, the products  of	 theland  are  of  wild,  or  spontaneous  growth  involving  noexpenditure of human labour and skill there is unanimity  ofopinion that no agricultural operations were at all involvedand  there  is no agricultural income.	In  such  cases,  itwould be the absence of any such operations rather than	 theperformance thereof which would be the prime cause of growthof such products.The  cases  bearing on this aspect of the  question  may  benoted.Kaju  Mal  & others v. Salig Ram (2) is	 the  earliest	casewhere a stretch of natural forest came in for consideration.It was a forest land and it was held to(1) [1938] 6 I.T.R. 502, 509.(2) (1919) P.R. No. 19 P. 237.131be  agricultural land or land used for purposes	 subservientto  agriculture	 or for pasture, and therefore	exempt	frompre-emption under s. 4 of the Punjab Premption Act, 1905.There  was  no discussion of any legal	principles  in	thatdecision  but when we come to the next case of	Province  ofBihar  v. Maharaja Pratap Udai Nath Sahi Deo(l) which was  acase under the Bihar Agricultural Income Tax Act (Bihar	 VIIof 1938), we find the ratio of these decisions laid down  inclear terms.  The assessees there derived their income	from"  Bankar  " and " Palkar ". " Bankar " was  income  derivedfrom  the  sale of wood from virgin jungles or	jungles	 notactually  cultivated; and "Phalkar" was income derived	fromthe  fruits of wild jungle trees and bushes.   The  questionwas  whether this income was agricultural income within	 themeaning of the term as defined in the Act.  Harries C.J. whodelivered the judgment of the Court observed:"Bankar"  : It appears that this head of income was  derivedfrom virgin jungles or jungle land not actually	 cultivated.A few forest guards appear to have been employed to  protectthe  property,	but it cannot be said that  the	 trees	havegrown  as  the result of cultivation.  They appear  to	havegrown  naturally in the jungles without the intervention  ofthe  human agency, and in my view the growth of these  treescannot	be said to result from the cultivation of the  soil.In  fact, it was the absence of cultivation  that  permittedthe area to develop into a jungle...................... "" Phalkar ": This is income derived from wild jungle fruits,and it cannot be said that the fruit gathered is the  resultof  the cultivation, but, on the contrary, it is the  resultof  the absence of cultivation.	 Trees and  bushes  yieldingthese fruits grow not on cultivated soil but on the land notunder cultivation and frequently the more neglected and wildthe  land  is the thicker grow these wild bushes  and  treesyielding  such crop.  Practically in all cases the  crop  isthe  result  of want of cultivation and not  the  result  ofcultivation.(1)  [194I] 9 I.T.R. 313, 328.132In  my	judgment  it  is not  established  that	 the  incomedescribed  as phalkar in these cases is income derived	fromland  used  for	 agriculture or	 from  agriculture  and	 is,therefore, not assessable to agricultural income-tax."In  Raja Mustafa Ali Khan v. Commissioner of Income Tax,  U.P. & C. P. (1) which went up to the Privy Council, the	OudhChief  Court held that income from the sale of forest  treesgrowing	 on land naturally and without the  intervention  ofhuman agency, even if the land was assessed to land revenue,was not agricultural income within the meaning of s. 2(1)(a)of  the	 Income-tax  Act.  The	Court  followed	 an  earlierdecision  given by it in the case of Maharaja of  Kapurthalav. Commissioner of Income Tax C. P. & U. P. (2) in which thecourt  had discussed the meaning to be ascribed to the	term"agriculture" and observed at page 93:"A  fiscal  statute should no doubt be	construed  strictly,and,  if  there	 be any doubt about  its  construction,	 thesubject	 must be given the benefit.  But we do not feel	 anydoubt  that  the  expression  "land  used  for	agriculturalpurposes"  in the Income-tax Act does not extend to  forestsof spontaneous growth, where nothing is done to prepare	 thesoil  for trees to be planted therein, and where the  growthof  the trees is not fostered by tillage.  We should not  bejustified  in  giving  the  taxpayer  the  benefit  of	 thedictionary  definition	when  it is not	 disputed  that	 themeaning of the term  " agricultural" cannot be	extended forthe  purpose  of  the Income-tax Act to	 all  the  secondaryimplications  therein suggested.  We therefore construe	 theterm in its primary sense.  We accordingly hold that  incomefrom the sale of forest trees of spontaneous growth  growingon   land  which  is  assessed	to  land  revenue   is	 notagricultural income within the meaning of section 2(1)(a) ofthe Income Tax Act."Yuvarajah  of Pithapuram & Anr. V.  Commissioner  of  IncomeTax, Madras(3)was also a case where the(1) [1945] 13 I.T.R, 98.(2)[1945] 13 I.T.R. 74,93.(3)[1946] 14 I.T.R. 92,99.133assessee  derived income from forests of spontaneous  growthby the sale of wood, bark, leaves, other usufruct of  trees,minor  forest produce and licence fees and from	 trees	thathad  grown  wild  in non-forest	 areas.	  The  Zamindari  ofPithapuram  was	 a  permanently	 settled  estate  under	 thePermanent Settlement Regulation (Regulation XXV of 1802) andit  was	 contended  that the  imposition  of  income-tax  inrespect	 of  income other than agricultural  income  derivedfrom  a permanently settled estate would not be a breach  ofRegulation  XXV	 of 1802 relating to  permanent	 settlement.Reliance  was  placed  in support of this  position  on	 thedecision in Chief Commissioner of Income Tax v. Zamindar  ofSingampatti  (1).  It was, however, held that the  case	 wasimpliedly overruled by the decision of the Privy Council  inProbat	Chandra	 Barua	v. King Emperor (2)  and  the  Courtproceeded to consider whether income derived from forests ofspontaneous growth by the sale of wood, bark, leaves,  otherusufruct of trees, minor forest produce and licence fees andfrom  trees  which have grown wild in  nonforest  areas	 wasagricultural  income  within the meaning of s. 2(1)  of	 theIndian Income-tax Act.	The Court observed :"There	is ample authority for holding that  income  derivedfrom trees which have grown wild is not agricultural  incomebut  without  the  aid	of  authority,	we  should  have  nohesitation  in	saying	that to describe it  as	 such  wouldinvolve	  a   distortion  of  the  meaning   of	  the	wordagriculture'.and such income was accordingly held to be not	agriculturalincome within the meaning of s. 2 (1) of the Act. (It may benoted  that the appellant preferred an appeal to  the  PrivyCouncil	 against  this decision but the same  was  dismissedvide Yuvarajah of Pithapuram & Anr. v. Commr. of Income Tax,Madras (3)Benoy  Ratan  Banerji v. Commissioner of Income	 Tax,  U.P.,C.P.  &	 Berar (4) was another case in	which  the  assesseederived income from the sale of timber from(1)  (1922)  I.L.R. 45 Mad. 518 (F.B.).(2)  (1930) L.R. 57 I.A. 228.(3)  [1949] 17 I.T.R. 445.(4)  [1947] 15 I.T.R. 98.134the  Zamindari	on which there had been for  many  years,  anumber of forest trees, khar and wild plants.  There was  noevidence on the record to show that the growth of the  treesin  question was the result of any actual culivation by	 theassessee  at all.  The various trees which he sold  were  ofspontaneous  growth, not having grown as a result of  actualcultivation.   The Court held that in order to	come  withinthe  definition of " agricultural income ", the	 income	 hadnot  only  to  be  derived from	 land  which  was  used	 for"agricultural  purposes"  but  such income had	also  to  bederived	 by  the  process  of "	 agriculture  ".  The  Courtobserved that being trees of spontaneous growth, to the pro-duction	 of which the assessee had made no  contribution  byway  of cultivation, no question could arise either  of	 theland  on  which	 they  grew  being  "used  for	agriculturalpurposes"  or  of the trees themselves and the	income	theyproduced  being	 the  result  of  "agriculture."  The  Courtaccordingly  held  that the income from the sale  of  foresttrees  of spontaneous growth, growing on land naturally	 andwithout	  the	intervention  of  human	 agency,   was	 notagricultural income within the meaning of s. 2(1)(a) of	 theIncome Tax Act even if such land was subject to a local rateassessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such	 andsuch  income  was not exempt from income-tax under  s.	4(3)(viii) of the Act.A decision of the Nagpur High Court in Beohar Singh RaghubirSingh  v. Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P., C.P., and  Berar(1)  (delivered on September 4, 1946, but reported in  1948)may  be noted here.  There also the income in  question	 wasderived by the assessee from the sale of forest produce suchas  timber,  tendu leaves, mohua  flowers,  harranuts  etc.,derived from a forest which was not a cultivated one but wasof spontaneous growth.	The question was whether such incomewas  agricultural  income and as such exempt  from  taxationunder s. 4(3)(viii) of the Indian Incometax Act.  The  Courtconsidered the dictionary meanings of the term "agriculture"which included forestry within its compass but observed thatthe essence of(1)  [1948] 16 I. T.R. 433.135agriculture even when it was extended to include "forestry",was the application of human skill and labour; without	thatit  could  neither  be an art nor a  science  and  that	 wasaccording  to them the determining factor in such  class  ofcases.	 The  Court then referred to the  various  decisionsreferred  to  above and cited with  approval  the  followingpassage from the Judgment of the Federal Court in Meghraj v.Allah Rakhia (1)."Their	Lordships confirmed a decision of the  Punjab  ChiefCourt to the effect that land used as a tea garden was	usedfor  "agricultural purposes." In the judgment of  the  ChiefCourt  (which was generally approved by their Lordships)  itwas  observed that the term "agricultural land" is  used  inthe Act of 1905 in its widest sense to denote all land whichis  tilled............. The, Chief Court had held that	landcovered	 by a natural forest was not agricultural land,	 andthis  view  also would seem to have been  confirmed  by	 theJudicial Committee,"and they further proceeded to observe"  We  have  underlined the word "tilled"  because,  in	 ouropinion,  that	brings	out the distinction  which  we	havesought	 to  draw  between  an	agricultural  and   a	non-agricultural  purpose.	The decisions referred to  are	KajuMal v. Saligram and Kajumal v. Saligram (2)".The Court came to the conclusion that it was essential	thatthe  income  should  be derived	 from  some  activity  whichnecessitated  the employment of human skill and	 labour	 andwhich was not merely a product of man's neglect or  inactionexcept	for the gathering in of the spoils.  Not  only	mustthe  assessee labour to reap the harvest, but he  must	alsolabour	to  produce it and they accordingly  held  that	 theincome	in question was not agricultural income and was	 notexempt	from  taxation	under s. 4(3)(viii)  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act.We  now	 come to the decision of the Privy Council  in	RajaMustafa Ali Khan v. Commissioner of(1)  [1942] F.C.R. 53,62.(2)  [1919] P. R. No. 19 P. 237 and (1923) I.L.R. 5 Lah. 50.136Income-tax,  U. P. Ajmer and Ajmer Merwara (1).	 It will  berecalled  that the Oudh Chief Court had in Raja Mustafa	 AliKhan  v.  Commissioner	of Income Tax, U.  P. &	 C.  P.	 (2)decided that income from the sale of forest trees growing onland naturally and without the intervention of human  agencyeven  if  the  land was "assessed to land  revenue  was	 notagricultural income within the meaning of section 2(1)(a) ofthe Indian Income-tax Act.  The appellant took an appeal  tothe  Privy  Council  against  this  decision  and  the	mainquestion  for  consideration  before  their  Lordships	 waswhether the land was 'used for agricultural purposes and theincome	derived	 therefrom was agricultural  income.   TheirLordships  of the Privy Council observed that the income  inquestion-"  was	derived from the sale of trees described  as  foresttrees growing on land naturally and the case has  throughoutproceeded  upon the footing that there was nothing  to	showthat the assessee was carrying on any regular operations  inforestry  and that the jungle from which trees had been	 cutand  sold  was a spontaneous growth.  Upon those  facts	 thequestion  is whether such income is (within section  2(1)(a)of    the    Act)    rent    or	   revenue............	  oralternatively.........	whether	 such  income  was,   withinsection	  2(1)(b),   income  derived  from  such   land	  byagriculture.It  appears  to their Lordships that, whether  exemption  issought under section 2(1)(a) or section 2(1)(b), the primarycondition  must	 be satisfied that the land in	question  isused for agricultural purposes; the expression " such  land"in  (b). refers back to the land mentioned in (a)  and	musthave the same quality.	It is not then necessary to considerany  other  difficulty	which may stand in the	way  of	 theassessee.  His case fails if he does not prove that the landis  "used for agricultural purposes." Upon this point  theirLordships concur in the views which have been expressed	 notonly  in  the Chief Court of Oudh but in the High  Court  ofMadras (see Yuvarajah of Pithapuram v.(1) [1948] 16 I.T.R. 330.(2) [1945] 13 I.T.R. 98.137Commissioner  of Income Tax, Madras (1), and the High  Courtof  Allahabad  (see Benoy Ratan Banerji v.  Commissioner  ofIncome	Tax, U.P., C.P. & Berar(2) and elsewhere  in  India.The question seems not yet to have been decided whether landcan be said to be used for agricultural purposes within	 thesection, if it has been planted with trees and cultivated inthe regular course of arboriculture, and upon this  questiontheir  Lordships express no opinion.  It is  sufficient	 forthe  purpose of the present appeal to say (1) that in  theiropinion no assistance is to be got from the meaning ascribedto  the word "agriculture" in other statutes and  (2)  that,though	it must always be difficult to draw the	 line,	yet,unless	there  is some measure of cultivation of  the  land,some  expenditure of skill and labour upon it, it cannot  besaid to be used for agricultural purposes within the meaningof  the	 Indian Income-tax Act.	 In the present	 case  theirLordships  agree with the High Court in thinking that  thereis no evidence which would justify the conclusion that	thiscondition is satisfied."It  may be noted that the Privy Council also proceeded	uponthe footing that there was nothing to show that the assesseewas carrying on any regular operations in forestry and theseobservations  are  patient of argument that if	any  regularoperations  in	forestry had been carried on the  land	theymight have made a difference to the result.  Their Lordshipsalso  did  not express any opinion on the  question  whetherland can be said to be used for agricultural purposes withinthe section if it has been planted with trees and cultivatedin the regular course of arboriculture.	 They were, however,definite in their opinion that unless there is some  measureof  cultivation of the land, some expenditure of  skill	 andlabour	upon  it,  the land cannot be said to  be  used	 foragricultural  purposes	within	the  meaning  of  the	Act.Agricultural  operations  are  thus defined by	them  to  beoperations  where there was some measure of  cultivation  ofthe land, some expenditure of skill and labour upon it.	  Ifthese conditions were satisfied in regard to any  particularland, then(1) [1946] 14 I.T. R. 92, 99.(2) [1946] 15 I.T.R. 98,18138such  land can be said to be used for agricultural  purposesand  the  income derived therefrom  constitute	agriculturalincome	within	the meaning of s. 2(1)(a) of the  Act.	 Theterm "agriculture" for the purposes of the Indian Income TaxAct  was thus in effect defined by their Lordships  to	meansome measure of cultivation of the land and some expenditureof  skill  and	labour upon it and  unless  the	 operations,whether	  they	be  agricultural  operations   or   forestryoperations conformed with those definitions, they could	 notbe  styled agricultural operations so as to constitute	landon  which  they were performed land  used  for	agriculturalpurposes.One  should  have thought that this decision  of  the  PrivyCouncil would put an end to all controversies with regard tothe   connotation  of  the  term  "  agriculture  "  and   "agricultural purposes ". That was, however, not to be.	 Thewords used by their Lordships in their judgment were crypticand  the  controversy  arose immediately  thereafter  as  towhether " some measure of cultivation of the land" and "someexpenditure  of skill and labour upon it" were used by	themas cumulative or in the alternative.  Considerable ingenuitywas exercised in determining what were regular operations inforestry   and	 whether  they	could  be   assimilated	  toagricultural  operations  which	 could have  the  effect  ofconstituting  the land upon which they were  performed	landused  for  agricultural purposes within the meaning  of	 theIndian Income-tax Act so that income derived therefrom couldfall within the definition of agricultural income" containedtherein.The  first  case which came up for consideration  after	 theabove  decision	 of  the  Privy	 Council  was  the  case  ofCommissioner of Agricultural Income Tax, West Bengal v. RajaJagadish Chandra Deo Dhabal Deb (1) before the Calcutta HighCourt.	 The assessee was the Zamindar of Chilkigarh in	 thedistrict  of Midnapore the western part of  which  containedjungle	mahal.	The income in question was derived from	 thesale of Sal trees which grew in the forest.  The forest	 wasnot an uncared for virgin forest.  The assessee maintained astaff of one forester, 6 guards and 24 Chaukas to look afterthe(1)  [1949] 17 I.T.R. 426, 438.139forest and for the proper cultivation of the same.  The	 Saltrees were generally sold off in blocks when about 15  yearsold.   Annually	 blocks of about 1,000 acres were  sold	 up.All  the  trees in the blocks sold up were cut down  by	 thepurchasers  for	 sale as fuel and house posts.	 During	 therainy  season  from the stumps of the trees  cut  down,	 newshoots come out which grew into mature trees in 15 years, tobe cut down again.  In order to prevent damage to the  youngshoots	in  the early stages of their growth the  areas	 cutdown  were  closely guarded for one year at least  from	 thetime when the block in question had been completely  denudedof trees, in order to keep cattle and men off from the landsso  that they may not damage the young growing	shoots.	  Inorder  to promote the growth of shoots, the ground was	alsokept free from undergrowth jungle.  This was not cleared  atthe  assessee's	 expense but the villagers were	 allowed  toclear the grounds of the undergrowth and take the same	awayfree of cost.  The existing Sal trees in the forests and theSal  trees  which had been sold off in 1350  B.S.  had	beengrown in the same manner as described above.  From the abovefacts  it  was	clear that human care  and  skill  had	beenutilised  for  promoting the growth of the  Sal	 trees	fromwhich the income was derived in 1350 B.S.The  Court  discussed the dictionary meaning of the  term  "agriculture  "	and  following the  decision  of  the  PrivyCouncil	 in Raja Mustafa Ali Khan v. Commissioner of  IncomeTax  U.P., Ajmer & Ajmer Merwara(l) came to  the  conclusionthat  income from a virgin forest or forests of	 spontaneousgrowth	was  not  agricultural income.	The  view  that	 thetilling	 of  the soil was the sine qua non  for	 bringing  apursuit	 within the term agriculture was also held  to	havebeen exploded and it was observed at p. 440:"  Whether a particular forest is one of spontaneous  growthor  not has to be decided on one important consideration  asindicated  by the Judicial Committee in that decision  i.e.,whether	 there	has  been I some expenditure  of  skill	 andlabour upon it'."(1)  [1948] 16 1.L.R. 330.140Reliance  was  placed upon the further observations  of	 thePrivy  Council	that,  whether	there  were  "	any  regularoperations  in	forestry  " would be  a	 material  fact	 forconsideration and it was observed:"  To  put  it in another form, the  introduction  of  humanagency	and  the application of human efforts would  be	 thecriteria for consideration"and after discussing several cases on the subject the  Courtobserved at p. 441 :" On a careful analysis of the reasons given by the  learnedJudges in the various decisions referred to above it will beapparent  that	the facts of each particular  case  must  beconsidered for determining whether there has or has not beensufficient  application	 of human efforts before it  can  bedetermined  whether the income from a particular  forest  isagricultural or otherwise."On the findings of fact recorded by the Tribunal in the casebefore	them  the Court was of opinion that  the  forest  inquestion was not either a virgin forest or containing  treeswhich  grew  spontaneously and naturally without  any  humanintervention  whatever.	  The circumstance  that  there	 wasfelling	 of the trees, the new shoots appearing	 during	 therainy season without any human intervention, guarding of thenew  shoots from either being trampled under foot  or  beingbrowsed by animals and the removal of undergrowth of  fallenleaves were considered regular operations in forestry in theforests in question which required the application of  humanefforts	  sufficient   to  include  them  under	  the	headagricultural income.  It was further observed :" If the view of the Judicial Committee were to exclude	 allkinds  of  income from the category of	agricultural  incomeunless	there was actual cultivation of the soil,  referenceto   "regular  operations  of  forestry"  would	 have	beenunnecessary.   Not that there must always be " some  measureof cultivation of the land " and " some expenditure of skilland  labour upon it " but that the proof of either would  besufficient to bring the case within either clause (a) or (b)of section 2(1) of141the  Act.   " Regular operations in forestry  "	 do  requireexpenditure  of skill and labour upon the land on which	 theforest grows.  "The  Court,  therefore, came to the conclusion that  in	 thespecial	 circumstances as disclosed in the case, there	wereregular operations in forestry and the income, derived	fromforests	 in  question  was agricultural	 income	 within	 themeaning	 of s. 2 (1) (a) of the Bengal Agricultural  Income-tax Act, 1944.Jyotirindra  Narayan Sinha Choudhury v. The State  of  Assam(1) arose under the Assam Agricultural Income-tax Act,	1939and  the  question for the consideration of  the  Court	 waswhether	 the amounts realised by the assessee from the	saleof Sal tree,-, growing in the forest was agricultural incomewithin	the  meaning of s. 2 (1) of the Act.  There  was  noevidence  to show that these Sal trees were  of	 spontaneousgrowth.	   Even	 though	 the  possibility  of  the   forestsoriginally having been of spontaneous growth was recognised,it was an admitted fact that forest trees were protected andfostered  in growth by the application of human	 labour	 andskill.	 In these forests, operations' in forestry  such  asclearing jungles, creepers and climbers, thinning by removalof  less healthy trees from thickly grown areas, removal  ofunsound,  crooked and diseased trees, burning of  leaves  tofertilise  the ground, cutting of trees at special  heights,reservation of blocks by turns and their operation in cyclicorder, preservation of mother trees for the spread of  seed,protection  of	forests	 from  fire,  etc.,  were  regularlycarried on and regular operations were thus being undertakenfor their growth, preservation and regeneration.  The  Courtheld that as extensive operations in forestry were  employedin the forest of Sal trees, the income from the sale of suchtrees  would be agricultural income as defined in the  AssamAgricultural   Income-tax   Act.   In	arriving   at	thisconclusion,  the  Court relying on  the	 various  dictionarymeanings of the term "agriculture " observed at p. 390:(1)  [1950] 19 I.T.R. 379.142"  in spite of the diversity as to the scope and purpose  ofagriculture as revealed by the different definitions,  thereis one feature which is essentially common to all of  these.This  is the application of human skill and  labour  withoutwhich there can be no agriculture."The Court then referred to the decision of the Privy Councilin  Raja Mustafa Ali Khan v. Commissioner of  Income  Tax(1)and  after  quoting  the passage  from	the  judgment  abovereferred to proceeded to observe :"  Their Lordships have not laid down that some	 measure  ofcultivation  is absolutely necessary before it can  be	saidthat land is used for agricultural purposes.  In fact " somemeasure	 of  cultivation " is placed on a par  with  "	someexpenditure  of	 skill and labour ". If either	of  the	 twoconditions exists, the land could be said as being used	 foragricultural purposes.	Tillage or actual cultivation  wouldnot  in	 their	view  be an  essential	pre-requisite  of  "agriculture " in its wider implication."After referring to a decision of the Calcutta High Court  inHedayat	 Ali  v.  Kamalanand Singh(2)  and  Commissioner  ofAgricultural  Income Tax v. Jagadish Chandra Deo Dhabal	 Deb(3) the Court observed:"  The review of the authorities considered above  leads  tothe conclusion that purpose within the meaning of the  AssamAct  can  be agricultural even if its achievement  does	 notinvolve	 actual	 cultivation of the soil.  In the  words  oftheir Lordships of the Privy Council in the case of receiptsfrom  the  sale	 of  forest  trees,  the  income  would	  beagricultural  if  there	 is some expenditure  of  skill	 andlabour upon it.	 Regular operations in forestry	 necessarilyinvolve expenditure of skill and labour.  Where,  therefore,such  operations  take place, the income from  the  sale  oftrees	in  the	 forest	 would	be  within  the	  ambit	  ofagricultural income as defined in the Assam Act."In  Pratap  Singh Balbeer Singh v.  Commissioner  of  IncomeTax, U. P., C. P. & Berar (4), however, the(1)[1948] 16 I.T.R. 330.(2)[1913] 17 C.L.J. 411.(3)[1949] 7 I.T.R. 426, 438.(4)[1952] 22 I.T.R 1.143High  Court  of	 Allahabad struck  a  different	 note.	 Theassessee  there derived the income from the sale  of  foresttrees  growing on land naturally and  spontaneously  withoutthe intervention of any human agency but carried on forestryoperations  working  the forest for at least  some  time  onscientific  lines  in  accordance with a  scheme  of  makingprofits.  There was a regular working plan and the  assesseewas  deriving  regular income from the forest  and  spendingmoney  to  increase the profit.	 The Court held that  the  "agriculture  " and " agricultural purposes " with  referenceto land clearly implied that some operations must be carriedon on the land itself; human skill and labour should be usedfor the purpose of ploughing the land, manuring it, plantingthe  trees  or some similar process, and that  mere  weedingcare   and   preservation  of  forest	trees	which	grewspontaneously  were  not operations on the land	 which	werenecessary   to	 constitute  the  process   a	process	  ofagriculture.   In  the	course of the  judgment,  the  Courtinterpreted  the above passage	from the judgment  of  theirLordships  of the Privy Council in Raja Mustafa Ali Khan  v.Commissioner of Income Tax (1) a.-, under:"  It is quite clear that their Lordships were of  the	viewthat,  for income to be agricultural income,  the  essentialelement	 that  must  exist is that  there  should  be  "somemeasure of cultivation of the land" or " some expenditure ofskill  and  labour  upon it".  The language  used  by  theirLordships of the Privy Council shows that the expenditure ofskill  and labour must be upon the land and not	 merely	 oilthe  trees  which are already growing on it as a  result  ofspontaneous growth."Mere  regeneration  and preservation of trees could  not  besaid  to be expenditure of human skill and labour  upon	 theland  itself and the land could not under the  circumstancesbe held to be used for agricultural purposes nor could it beheld  that any process of agriculture was being carried	 on.The Court observed that planned and scientific	exploitationof a forest of spontaneous growth, though it might yield(1)  [1948] 16 I.T.R. 330.144regular	 income, would not be income from agriculture as  nooperations  were carried out and no human skill	 and  labourwas expended in such a case, on the land itself.Raja  Benoy Kumar Sahas Roy v. Commissioner of	Income	Tax,West  Bengal  (1) the judgment under appeal before  us	herestruck	a middle path.	The Tribunal had found	that  exceptthe  sowing  of seeds, the operations  carried	out,  thoughequally	 necessary  for the maintenance and  upkeep  of	 anyforest	 of  spontaneous  growth,  did	not   involve	suchexpenditure of human labour and skill as to constitute	themoperations  in agriculture.  The sowing of seeds were "	 fewand far between " and the normal process by which the forestgrew again, after a part of it had been cut down, was by thegrowing out off-shoots from the stumps left, the  operationswere  therefore	 in  the  main only  operations	 for  the  "maintenance,  preservation,  nursing and rearing ",  of	 theforest.	 It was urged before the High Court on behalf of theassessee  that	the exemption from  agricultural  income-taxdetermined in Commissioner of Agricultural Income Tax,	WestBengal	v. Raja Jagadish Chandra Deo Dhabal  Deb(2)  coveredthe case and it was submitted that the facts here were if atall far stronger in favour of the assessee.  The decision ofthe  Privy Council in Raja Mustafa Ali Khan v.	Commissionerof  Income  Tax,  U.P.,	 Ajmer	and  Ajmer-Merwara  (3)	 wasconsidered and the Court observed at p. 87:" I do not think that when the Privy Council said that theremust  be  'some	 measure of Cultivation on  the	 land,	someexpenditure  of skill and labour upon it ", their  Lordshipsintended  to  say that the expenditure of skill	 and  labourmust  always be in the form of cultivation.  The  word	"or"introduced  by	the  Allahabad High Court  between  the	 twophrases	 does not occur in the original, but I think  it  isimplied.  The idea, it seems to me, is that if the land	 hasbeen left to the forces of nature to grow what products suchforces could, there is no agriculture and there can be(1)  [1953] 24 I.T.R. 70, 87.(2)  [1049] 17 I.T.R. 426, 438.(3)   [1948] 16 I.T.R. 330.145SUPREME COURT REPORTSagriculture only if the labour and skill of man has operatedon the land to cause or aid the growth of certain  products.All  that is necessary is that the land should	be  activelyexploited with a view to procuring growth or better  growthsfrom the soil but it does not seem to be also necessary thatthe exploitation should be by tillage."The  Court  accordingly	 came to the  conclusion  that	eventhough	tillage	 was thus not essential,  human	 labour	 andskill must be expended on the land itself and not merely  onthe  growth from the land.  When income is derived from	 thenatural	 growths from the land, it is derived from land	 butnot derived from land by the process of agriculture.  It  isderived	 from  land  by agriculture only when  the  land  issubjected  to  the labour and skill of man, whether  in	 theform of cultivation or otherwise, in order to produce or theimprovement of the produce which yields the income.  On	 thefacts before them the learned Judges were of opinion that ifforest	of natural growth was taken over and then  the	landwas  regularly weeded and cleared, if it was  supplied	withmoisture, necessary for the nourishment of the trees, by thecutting	 of  channels across it and by the  distribution  ofrain-water  through them and if the land was dug,  and	sownwith seeds whenever bare patches appeared and while all thiswas  done,  if elaborate subsidiary arrangements  were	alsomaintained  for the protection of the trees and the  tendingof  new	 shoots springing from the stumps of old  trees	 cutdown till they themselves grew into new trees, it might wellbe  said that operations in forestry involving	agriculturaloperations  were  carried  on on the forest  land  and	thatincome derived from the land was derived from agriculture.Sir  Kameshwar Singh v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bihar  &Orissa (1) which is the subject-matter of C.A. Nos. 11 2  toII  7  of 1956 before us also was a case  under	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act (XI of 1922).  It was found by the  AppellateTribunal  that	the Sal and ebony trees which  grew  in	 theforest were conserved by allowing each a circle of 15  feet,that there was cutting down(1)  [1954] 26 I.T.R. 121,19146of  the	 trees	and jungles which fell	within	that  circleleaving	  sufficient  space  for  growth  and  that   forestconservancy  staff was maintained to look after the  forest.The Court construed the observations of the Privy Council inRaja Mustafa Ali Khan's case (1) to mean that " in order  toshow  that  an	income is  agricultural	 income	 within	 themeaning	 of the definition, it must be found that  the	landitself was cultivated and that there was some expenditure ofskill  and  labour  upon  it."	The  Court  held  that	evenconceding  that	 the two conditions laid down by  the  PrivyCouncil	 in Raja Mustafa Ali Khan's case were to be read  asalternative  conditions, there was no material on  which  tohold that there was any expenditure of skill and labour uponthe  land and therefore the income from the sale  of  foresttrees was not agricultural income.In  Jyotikana  Chowdhurani v. Commissioner  of	Income	Tax,Assam  (3)  which is also under appeal before  us  in  CivilAppeals	 Nos.  57 to 62, a Special Bench of the	 Assam	HighCourt  considered whether income, derived by  the  assesseesfrom the sale of trees of spontaneous growth where there wasno planting or sowing or employment of any human agency	 forthe  purpose of tilling the land but operations in  forestrywere  carried  on  by the  assessee  involving	considerableexpenditure  of	 human	skill and  labour  was	agriculturalincome	within	the meaning of s. 2 (1) (a)  of	 the  IndianIncome	Tax  Act.  The majority of the Court  consisting  ofSarjoo	Prasad C.J. and Ram Labhaya J. (Deka J.	 dissenting)held  that even though there was no tilling of the  land  orplanting  of  seed  or	saplings  and  the  trees  were	  ofspontaneous  germination, the operations carried on  by	 theassessees  were conducive to the growth and  development  ofthe  trees and in essence involved the expenditure of  humanskill and labour on the land itself.  Those operations	were"agricultural  operations" and the land on which  the  treesstood  was  being  used	 for  "agricultural  purposes"	and,therefore,  the	 income	 from  the sale	 of  the  trees	 was"agricultural income" and was exempt from taxation under  s.4(3)(viii) of the Income-tax Act.(1)  [1948] 16 I.T.R. 330.  (2) [1953] 26 I.T.R.  424,	439,461.147Sarjoo	Prasad	C.J. explained the test laid  down  in	RajaMustafa	 Ali  Khan v. Commissioner of  Incometax(1)  in	 themanner following:" The contention of Mr. Iyengar is that the expression "someexpenditure  of skill and labour upon it" is used merely  infurther clarification of the expression "cultivation of	 theland"  and,  therefore, all' that their Lordships  held	 wasthat  cultivation  of  the land was  necessary.	  I  do	 notconcede	  that	 the  word  "cultivation"   is	 necessarilysynonymous with ploughing or tillage.  But even if it  were,I  am  unable to accept the argument for the  simple  reasonthat   if  precision  is  the  hallmark	 of  Privy   Councildecisions, as I think it is, then their Lordships would havestopped	 short with the phrase "some measure of	 cultivationof the land".  This, in itself, was quite expressive and  nofurther	 expressions  were  needed to  clarify	the  matter.Therefore,  when they proceeded to add after a	'comma,	 thephrase "some expenditure of skill and labour upon it",	theyevidently  intended  to	 signify something  more  than	merecultivation.   There  is, of course, no	 conjunctive  phrasebetween the two expressions, but in the context the  meaningseems to be plain."Ram  Labhaya J. expressed himself in the test laid  down  bythe Privy Council in these words:" A test however was laid down for finding out when land maybe  said  to be used for agricultural  purposes.   The	testrequires  that there must be some measure of cultivation  ofthe land; some expenditure of skill and labour upon it.	  Ithas  however to be borne in mind that their  Lordships	whenstating the facts did point out that the case had  proceededon  the	 footing  that there was nothing to  show  that	 theassessee was carrying on any regular operations in forestry.This  statement	 has  an important  bearing  on	 the  inter-pretation  of  the test.  Such operations  in  forestry	 arecarried on in forests.	They involve the use of human labourand  skill on the soil.	 They aim at stimulating growth	 andcould easily satisfy the requirements of the(1)  [1948] 16 I.T.R. 330.148test evolved by their Lordships.  Due importance, therefore,has to be given to the absence of operations in forestry  inRaja Mustafa Ali Khan's Case (1) when interpreting the	testlaid down therein." Vikram	 Deo Varma v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  'Bihar  &Orissa	(2) is the last case of this series.   The  assesseederived income from extensive forest areas in the impartibleestate of which he was proprietor.  Over several decades thewhole  of the forest area had been subjected by hill  tribesto  a  process of "podu" cultivation-setting  fire  to'	 thetrees  and  cultivating the forest lands and  raising  cropsthereon-so that it was impossible to say that there was	 anyvirgin	forest	left.  Through a huge  forest  establishmentconsiderable amount of human labour and skill was spent	 (i)in  fostering the growth of trees and preserving  them	fromdestruction  by men and cattle; (ii) in cultivation  of	 thesoil  by felling and burning trees from time to time;  (iii)in  planned exploitation of trees by marking out  the  areasinto  blocks:  (iv) in systematic cutting down of  trees  ofParticular  girth and at particular heights (v) in  plantingnew trees where patches occur; and (vi) watering,   pruning,dibbling  and digging.	The Tribunal had held that as  therewas no forest cultivation or tilling as such the income	 wasnot due to agricultural operations and therefore not  exemptunder  s. 4(3)(viii) of the Indian Income Tax Act.   In	 thecourse	of the judgment the learned Judges referred  to	 theobservations of their Lordships of the Privy Council in RajaMustafa	 Ali  Khan's  Case  (1)	 but  observed	that   theirLordships  did	not  lay  down	what  the  measure  of	thatcultivation should be or what the nature of skill and labourexpended should be, in order to bring the operations  withinthe  meaning of the expression " agricultural purposes "  asused  in  the  definition  section.   The  question  to	  bedetermined  in each case should, therefore, be	whether	 theland  out of which the rent or revenue was derived was	usedfor " agricultural purposes." Unless the land was subject tosome measure of cultivation or there was some expenditure ofhuman skill and labour on it in order to(1) [1948] 16 I.T.R. 330.(2) [1951] 29 I.T.R. 76.149derive	the  rent  or  revenue, the  purpose  would  not  beagricultural.  It was observed that the cultivation was	 notmere tilling but the science and art of cultivating the soilmay  depend upon the nature of the soil the  atmosphere	 andvarious	 other	factors.  It was therefore idle	 to  regard"tilling " as the sole or indispensable test of	agriculture.On  the facts before it, the Court held that the  operationscarried on by the assessee through the forest  establishmentshowed	that there had been both cultivation of the soil  aswell  as the application of human skill and labour upon	 theland as well as on the trees themselves, and that  thereforethe income derived from the forest was exempt from  taxationunder s. 4(3) (viii) of the Indian Income-tax Act.Before	parting with these cases it may be apposite here  tonote the following observations of Vishwanatha Sastri J.  inCommissioner of Income Tax, Madras v. K.E. Sundara  Mudaliar(1) at page 277:" In Commissioner of Agricultural Income Tax v. Raja JagdishChandra	 Deo Dhabal Deb (2) it was held by a Division  Benchof the Calcutta High Court that income derived from the saleof sal trees growing spontaneously in forest and not plantedby man was "   agricultural  " income within the meaning  ofs.  2(1) of the Bengal Agricultural Income Tax	Act.   Therewas  no	 digging or ploughing of the land  nor	planting  oftrees  but  there were " operations in forestry	 "  such  asguarding  the forest trees to keep away cattle and  allowingleaves	and  undergrowth  to be removed	 by  people  of	 thelocality.   There was no breaking up of the soil, no  sowingor planting or watering or fencing.  Whether the decision iscorrect	 or not can only be authoritatively declared by	 theSupreme	 Court	of  India.  It seems to	 rest  on  an  undueextension  of  the  principle  laid  down  by  the  JudicialCommittee  in Raja Mustafa Ali Khan's Case(3) and goes	muchfurther than our decision in the present case."It  appears  from  the above survey that there	has  been  adivergence of opinion amongst the various(1)  [1950]  18 I.T.R. 259,271.	 (2) [1949] 17	I.T.R.	426,438.(3) [1948] 16 I.T.R. 330.150Courts	not only in regard to the connotation of  the  terms"agriculture' and "agricultural purposes" but also in regardto the nature of forestry operations performed in the forestwhich  can  be	styled	agricultural  operations  so  as  toconstitute the "land used for agricultural purposes"  withinthe  definition of agricultural income as given both in	 theIndian Income-tax Act and in the several Agricultural IncomeTax Acts passed by the various States.It  may	 be  noted  at the outset  that	 the  definition  of"agricultural income" given in s. 2(1) of the Indian Income-tax  Act is in identical terms with the definitions of	thatterm  as given in the various Agricultural  Income-tax	Actspassed by the several States.  It will be idle therefore  totreat  "Taxes on Agricultural Income" which fall within	 thelegislative competence of the State Legislature as having norelation  at  all  to the corresponding	 provisions  of	 theIndian	Income-tax  Act.   Once it is  determined  that	 theincome	 in   question	is  derived  from  land	  used	 foragricultural   purposes	  by-  agriculture,  it	  would	  beagricultural  income  and as such exempt from tax  under  s.4(3)(viii)  of	the  Indian Income-tax Act  and	 would	fallwithin the purview of the relevant provisions of the severalAgricultural  Income-tax Acts passed by the various  States.The result of this determination would be that the  assesseewould  not be liable to assessment under the Indian  Income-tax Act but he would have to pay the Agricultural Income-taxwhich	would  be  levied  upon	 him  under   the   relativeAgricultural Income-tax Acts.  The only enquiry which  wouldtherefore  be relevant is whether the income in question  isagricultural  income  within  the terms	 of  the  definitionthereof and that would have to be determined in each case bythe  Court having regard to the facts and  circumstances  ofthe particular case before it.In order that an income derived by the assessee should	fallwithin the definition of agricultural income two  conditionsare  necessary	to be satisfied and they are: (i)  that	 theland   from  which  it	is  derived  should  be	  used	 foragricultural  purposes	and  is	 either	 assessed  for	landrevenue in the taxable territories or is subject151to  local  rates assessed and collected by the	officers  of/the Government as such; and (ii) that the income should  bederived from such land by agriculture or by one or the otherof  the operations described in cls. (ii) and (iii) of s.  2(1) (b) of the Indian Income-tax Act.It  was at one time thought that the assessment of the	landto  land revenue in the taxable territories was intended  toexempt the income derived from that land from liability	 forpayment	 of income-tax altogether and that theory was  basedon  the	 assumption  that an assessee  who  was	 subject  topayment	 of land revenue should not further be subjected  tothe payment of income-tax, because if he was so subjected hewould be liable to pay double taxation.It  is interesting to note at this stage the genesis of	 theprovision  exempting  agricultural income derived  from	 thelands assessed to land revenue as understood by the  Courts.Vishwanatha  Sastri  J.	 in this  context  observed  in	 theCommissioner of Income Tax, Madras v.K.E.Sundara Mudaliar(l)at page 270:"I  shall  briefly advert to the genesis  of  the  provisionexempting agricultural income derived from lands assessed toland  revenue,	as I consider that the subject	matter	withwhich the Legislature was dealing, and the facts existing atthe time with respect to which the legislation was made, arelegitimate  topics  for consideration  in  ascertaining	 theobject and scope of the exemption from income-tax  conferredon  agricultural  income.   This  exemption,  it  would	  benoticed,  has  been a persistent feature of  the  Income-taxlegislation  of this country from 1867 onwards, and  nothinglike it is found in the English Income Tax Acts.  Even at  atime  when  there was no provision like Section 100  of	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935, with Federal and  ProvincialLists  and  there  was no incompetency on the  part  of	 theCentral	 Legislature to levy a tax on  agricultural  income,the Income Tax Acts passed from time to time by the  CentralLegislature  including	the existing Act of  1922,  exemptedfrom income-tax the agricultural income of land assessed  topublic revenue.(1)  [1950] 18 I.T.R. 259, 271.152This  exemption	 was granted for no other  reason  than	 thejustice	 and equity of exempting from further burden  incomewhich had already paid its toll to the State in the shape ofland  revenue either as a permanently fixed peishkush  underRegulation No. XXV of 1802 or as an assessment	periodicallyfixed  under  the ryotwari settlement.	Under  what  may  becalled the common law in India, the State had the immemorialprerogative  right to collect a share of the produce of	 theland  from  its owner, the latter having the full  right  toenjoyment  of the land and its produce, subject only to	 theaforesaid  contribution	 to  the  State.   Land	 revenue  iscollected  annually from the proprietor of the land  and  ispresumably  exigible  from  the income of  the	land.	Cashpayment	 in lieu of a share of the produce due to the  Statewas  substituted  long	ago  to	 facilitate  collection	  ofrevenue.  Income derived from the produce of the land havingbeen subjected to the payment of the annual land revenue, itwas thought inequitable to subject the same income again  toannual income-tax.  Hence the exemption of the	agriculturalincome	of  assessed lands or lands whose revenue  had	beenremitted  either in whole or in part, as in the case of	 theinams.	 Mines, minerals, and quarries having been  reservedby  the	 State, at any rate in respect of lands	 other	thanthose  comprised  in a permanently  settled  estate,  incomederived from such sources was not exempted from	 income-tax.The revenue assessment was based on the quality of the	soiland  the income derived from the produce of the	 lands,	 andtherefore  the	exemption  from income-tax  was	 limited  toagricultural  income derived from assessed lands.   Such  isthe  reason  for exemption from income-tax  of	agriculturalincome."Whatever  may  have  been the genesis of  the  exemption  ofagricultural  income from income-tax, the liability  to	 payland revenue or fixed peishkush under Regulation XXV of 1902was  not considered by Rankin J. as a deterrent against	 thelevy  of  incometax in appropriate cases,  even	 on  certainclasses	 of  income  derived from  the	permanently  settledestates, if that was the clear intention of the legislature.The153learned	 Judge observed in Emperor v. Probhat Chandra  Barua(1):,,Some reference was made at the bar to the practice of	 theRevenue	 Authorities  since  1886 as  regards  fisheries  inpermanently settled estates but there is no agreement as  towhat  that  practice-if	 there	be  any	 practice-has  been.Assuming  that it would have been open to us to	 place	somedegree	of  reliance  upon  an	interpretation	settled	  bypractice  as contemporanea expositio we are in fact  withoutany such assistance."  Some reference was also made to what has been  called  a"presumption  against double taxation ". In Manindra  ChandraNandi v. Secretary of State (2), royalties from a coal	minewere held liable both to cess under the Cess Act, 1880,	 andto  income tax under the Act of 1886, but it was  said	that"it may be considered that courts always look with disfavourupon  double  taxation, and Statute will  be  construed,  ifpossible,  to  avoid double taxes." Reference  was  made  tocertain dicta of American Courts and to the English case  ofCarr v. Fowle (3)-But the only observation in this case	 wasto  the	 effect that the statute presumably did	 not  intendthat  a vicar should in effect pay the same tax	 (land	tax)twice on the same hereditament.	 This is plain enough.	Thusthe  income-tax	 is one tax, and income assessed  under	 oneschedule  cannot be assessed all over again  under  another.That  there is any legal presumption of a general  characteragainst	 "  double  taxation  " in  any	 wider	sense  is  aproposition to which I respectfully demur as a principle forthe  construction of a modern statute.	In Manindra  ChandraNandi v. Secretary of State (2) it did not avail to cut downclear' though absolutely general language."This  view of Rankin J. was upheld by the Privy	 Council  inPrabhat Chandra Barua v. King Emperor(4).  In the later caseof  Yuvarajah of Pittapuram v. Commissioner -of Income	Tax,Madras	(5)  the Privy Council held that the  imposition  ofIncome-tax in respect of income derived from the permanentlysettled estate(1)  (1924) I.L.R. 51 Cal. 504.(2)  (1907) I.L.R. 34 Cal. 257, 287.(3)  (1893) 1 Q.B. 251.(4)  (1930) L.R. 57 I.A. 228.(5)  [1949] 17 I.T.R. 445.20154would  not  be a breach of the Madras  Permanent  SettlementRegulations No. XXV of 1802.  The assessment of land to landrevenue	 or  its being subject to local rates  assessed	 andcollected  by  the  officers of the Government	as  such  ismerely	an indication that the land is an agricultural	landas   distinguished   from  land	 which	can  be	  used	 foragricultural purposes but carries the matter no further.We have, therefore, to consider when it can be said that theland  is  used	for agricultural  purposes  or	agriculturaloperations  are performed on it.  Agriculture is  the  basicidea underlying the expressions "agricultural purposes"	 and"agricultural  operations" and it is pertinent therefore  toenquire	 what is the connotation of the term  "agriculture".As we have noted above, the primary sense in which the	termagriculture   is  understood  is  agar-field   and   cultra-cultivation,  i.e., the cultivation of the field and if	 theterm is understood only in that sense, agriculture would  berestricted  only  to cultivation of the land in	 the  strictsense  of  the term meaning thereby, tilling  of  the  land,sowing of the seeds, planting and similar operations on	 theland.  They would be the basic operations and would  requirethe  expenditure  of human skill and labour  upon  the	landitself.	  There are however other operations which have	 gotto  be	resorted  to  by the  agriculturist  and  which	 areabsolutely necessary for the purpose of effectively  raisingthe  produce  from  the land.  They  are  operations  to  beperformed  after  the produce sprouts from the	land,  e.g.,weeding,  digging  the soil around the	growth,	 removal  ofundesirable  under-growths and all operations  which  fosterthe  growth and preserve the same not only from insects	 andpests  but  also  from depredation  from  outside,  tending,pruning, cutting, harvesting, and rendering the produce	 fitfor  the  market.   The latter	would  all  be	agriculturaloperations   when  taken  in  conjunction  with	 the   basicoperations  above described, and it would be futile to	urgethat they are not agricultural operations at all.  But	eventhough	these  subsequent operations may be  assimilated  toagricultural  operations, when they are in conjunction	withthese basic operations, could it be said that even155though	they are divorced from these basic  operations	theywould nevertheless enjoy the characteristic of	agriculturaloperations  ?  Can  one	 eliminate  these  basic  operationsaltogether  and say that even if these basic operations	 arenot performed in a given case the mere performance of  thesesubsequent operations would be tantamount to the performanceof  agricultural operations on the land so as to  constitutethe  income derived by the assessee  therefrom	agriculturalincome within the definition on that term ?We  are	 of  opinion  that the	mere  performance  of  thesesubsequent  operations	on the products of the	land,  wheresuch  products	have  not been raised on  the  land  by	 theperformance of the basic operations which we have  describedabove	would  not  be	enough	to  characterise   them	  asagricultural  operations.  In order to invest them with	 thecharacter  of  agricultural  operations,  these	  subsequentoperations  must  necessarily be in conjunction with  and  acontinuation of the basic operations which are the effectivecause  of  the products being raised from the land.   It  isonly  if  the  products	 are raised from  the  land  by	 theperformance  of these basic operations that  the  subsequentoperations attach themselves to the products of the land andacquire the characteristic of agricultural operations.	 Thecultivation of the land does not comprise merely of  raisingthe  products of the land in the narrower sense of the	termlike tilling of the land, sowing of the seeds, planting, andsimilar	 work  done  on	 the  land  but	 also  includes	 thesubsequent operations set out above all of which operations,basic as well as subsequent, form one integrated activity ofthe  agriculturist and the term "agriculture" has got to  beunderstood  as	connoting this integrated  activity  of	 theagriculturist.	 One cannot dissociate the basic  operationsfrom the subsequent operations, and say that the  subsequentoperations,  even  though they are divorced from  the  basicoperations   can  constitute  agricultural   operations	  bythemselves.   If this integrated activity which	 constitutesagriculture  is	 undertaken and performed in regard  to	 anyland  that  land  can  be  said to  have  been	used  for  "agricultural purposes " and the income156derived	 therefrom can be said to be " agricultural  income"derived from the land by agriculture.In considering the connotation of the term " agriculture" wehave  so  far thought of cultivation of land  in  the  widersense  as comprising within its scope the basic as  well  asthe subsequent operations described above, regardless of thenature	of the products raised on the land.  These  productsmay be grain or vegetables or fruits which are necessary forthe  sustenance	 of human beings including  plantations	 andgroves,	 or  grass or pasture for consumption of  beasts  orarticles  of  luxury such as, betel,  coffee,  tea,  spices,tobacco etc., or commercial crops like, cotton, flax,  jute,hemp,  indigo etc.  All these are products raised  from	 theland and the term "agriculture" cannot be confined merely tothe  production of grain and food products for human  beingsand beasts as was sought to be done by Bhashyam Ayyangar  J.in Murugesa Chetti v. Chinnathambi Goundun (1) or  SadashivaAyyar  J. in Rajah of Venkatagiri v. Ayyappa Reddi  (2)	 butmust be understood as comprising all the products of the  I-and  which have some utility either for consumption  or	 fortrade  and commerce and would also include  forest  productssuch   as   timber,  sal  and	piyasal	  trees,   casuarinaplantations, tendu leaves, horranuts etc.The question still remains whether there is any warrant	 forthe  further  extension of the term " agriculture "  to	 allactivities in relation to the land or having connection withthe land including breeding and rearing of livestock, dairy-farming,  butter  and cheese making,  poultry-farming,	etc.This  extension is based on the dictionary meanings  of	 theterm  and  the	definitions of	agriculture  "	collated  inWharton's Law Lexicon, as also the dicta of Lord Cullen	 andLord  Wright  in  Lean	& Dickinson v.	Ball  (3)  and	LordGlaneley v. Wightman (4) quoted above.Derbyshire  C.J.  in Moolji Sicka & Co.,  In  re(5)  treatedtendu  plants  growing on the soil as part of the  soil	 andtherefore considered the pruning of the shrub(1)  (1901) I.L.R. 24 Mad. 421, 423.(2)  (1913) I.L.R. 38 Mad. 738.(3)  (1925) 10 Tax Cas. 341.(4)  [1933] A.C. 618 (H.L.) 638.(5)  [1939] 7 I.T.R. 493.157as  cultivation of the soil in a legal and  technical  senseand  this  extension  of the  term  "agriculture"  was	alsoapproved by Vishwanatha Sastri J. in Commissioner of  IncomeTax  v.	 K.  E. Sundara Mudaliar (1).	We  are	 however  ofopinion	 that  the  mere  fact that  an	 activity  has	someconnection  with or is in some way dependent on land is	 notsufficient to bring it within the scope of the term and suchextension  of  the term "agriculture" is  unwarranted.	 Theterm  "agriculture" cannot be dissociated from	the  primarysignificance  thereof  which is that of cultivation  of	 theland  and  even though it can be extended in the  manner  wehave  stated  before  both  in	regard	to  the	 process  ofagriculture and the products which are raised upon the land,there  is  no  warrant	at  all	 for  extending	 it  to	 allactivities which have relation to the land or are in any wayconnected with the land.  The use of the word agriculture inregard to such activities would certainly be a distortion ofthe term.A  critical examination of the definition  of  "agriculturalincome" as given in s. 2(1) of the Indian Income tax Act andthe relevant provisions of the several Agricultural  Income-tax  Acts of the various States also lends support  to	thisposition.   In the first instance, it is defined as rent  orrevenue	 derived  from land which is used  for	agriculturalpurposes; and it is next defined as income derived from suchland by agriculture or by the activities described in cls. 2and  3	of  s. 2(1)(b) of the  Act.   These  activities	 arepostulated to be performed by the cultivator or receiver  ofrent-in-kind  of such land in regard to the products  raisedor  received  by  him which necessarily	 means	the  produceraised	on  the	 land either by himself	 or  by	 the  actualcultivator  of the land who pays such rent-in-kind  to	him.If produce raised or received by the cultivator or  receiverof rent-in-kind is thus made the subject-matter of cls. (ii)and (iii) in s. 2 (1)(b) of the Act, the term  "agriculture"used  in  cl.  (i)  of s. 2(1)(b)  must	 also  be  similarlyrestricted to the performance of the basic operations on theland and there is no scope for reading the term	 agriculture" in the still wider sense indicated above.(1)  [1950] 18 I.T.R. 259, 271.158If the term " agriculture " is thus understood as comprisingwithin its scope the basic as well as subsequent  operationsin the process of agriculture and the raising on the land ofproducts  which have some utility either for consumption  orfor  trade  and commerce, it will be seen that	the  term  "agriculture " receives a wider interpretation both in regardto  its	 operations  as well as the results  of	 the  same'.Nevertheless there is present all throughout the basic	ideathat  there must be at the bottom of it cultivation of	landin  the sense of tilling of the land, sowing of	 the  seeds,planting,  and	similar work done on the  land	itself	Thisbasic  conception  is  the essential sine  qua	non  of	 anyoperation  performed on the land  constituting	agriculturaloperation.   If the basic operations are there, the rest  ofthe operations found themselves upon the same.	But if thesebasic  operations are wanting the subsequent  operations  donot acquire the characteristic of agricultural operations.All  these  operations no doubt require the  expenditure  ofhuman labour and skill but the human labour and skill  spentin the performance of the basic operations only can be	saidto  have  been spent upon the land.  The  human	 labour	 andskill  spent  in the performance  of  subsequent  operationscannot be said to have been spent on the land itself, thoughit  may	 have  the  effect  of	preserving,  fostering	 andregenerating the products of the land.This  distinction  is not so important in  cases  where	 theagriculturist  performs	 these operations as a part  of	 hisintegrated  activity  in cultivation of	 the  land.   Where,however, the products of the land are of spontaneous growth,unassisted  by human skill and labour, and human  skill	 andlabour	 are   spent  merely  in   fostering   the   growth,preservation and regeneration of such products of land,	 thequestion  falls	 to be considered whether  these  subsequentoperations  performed by the agriculturist are	agriculturaloperations  and	 enjoy the  characteristic  of	agriculturaloperations.It  is agreed on all hands that products which grow wild  onthe  land  or are of spontaneous growth	 not  involving	 anyhuman labour or skill upon the land are159not products of agriculture and the income derived therefromis  not	 agricultural  income.	 There	is  no	process	  ofagriculture  involved in the raising of these products	fromthe land.  There are no agricultural operations performed bythe assessee in respect of the same, and the only work whichthe assessee performs here is that of collecting the produceand  consuming	and  marketing the  same.   No	agriculturaloperations  have been performed and there is no question  atall  of	 the  income derived  therefrom	 being	agriculturalincome within the definition given in s. 2(1) of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act.   Where,  however,  the  assessee  performssubsequent operations on these products of land which are ofwild  or spontaneous growth, the nature of those  operationswould  have to be determined in the light of the  principlesenunciated above.Applying these principles to the facts of the present  case,we  no	doubt  start with the finding  that  the  forest  inquestion was of spontaneous growth.  If there were no  otherfacts  found,  that  would entail the  conclusion  that	 theincome	is not agricultural income.  But, then, it has	alsobeen found by the Tribunal that the forest is more than	 150years  old, though portions of the forest have from time  totime  been  denuded, that is to say, trees  have  completelyfallen and the proprietors have planted fresh trees in thoseareas, and they have performed operations for the purpose ofnursing the trees planted by them.  It cannot be denied thatso  far	 as those trees are concerned,	the  income  derivedtherefrom would be agricultural income.	 In view of the factthat the forest is more than 150 years old, the areas  whichhad  thus become denuded and replanted cannot be  consideredto be negligible.  The position therefore is that the  wholeof  the income derived from the forest cannot be treated  asnon-agricultural  income.  If the enquiry had been  directedon proper lines, it would have been possible for the Income-tax  authorities  to  ascertain how much of  the  income  isattributable to forest of spontaneous growth and how much totrees  planted by the proprietors.  But no such enquiry	 hadbeen directed, and in view of the long lapse of time, we  donot consider it desirable to direct any such160enquiry now.  The expenditure shown by the assessee for	 themaintenance  of the forest is about Rs. 17,000 as against  atotal  income  of about Rs. 51,000.  Having  regard  to	 themagnitude  of  this  figure, we	 think	that  a	 substantialportion	 of  the income must have been	derived	 from  treesplanted	 by the proprietors themselves.	 As no	attempt	 hasbeen  made by the Department to establish which	 portion  ofthe income is attributable to forest of spontaneous  growth,there  are  no	materials on which we  could  say  that	 thejudgment of the court below is wrong.The appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.161