PETITIONER:MAULANA ABDUL SHAKUR	Vs.RESPONDENT:RIKHAB CHAND AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/09/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR   52		  1958 SCR  387ACT:Election  Dispute-Disqualification for	Election-"Office  ofProfit	under  Government "-Manager of Durgah  Khwaja  SahebSchool,	 if holds office of Profit  under  Government-DurgahKhwaja	Saheb Act, 1955 (XXXVI Of 1955), ss. 4(1), 5, 6,  9,11, 20Constitution of India, Art. 102(1) (a).HEADNOTE:The appellant was the manager of a school run by a committeeof  management	formed under the provisions  of	 the  DurgahKhwaja	 Saheb	 Act,  1955.   He  was	appointed   by	 theadministrator of Durgah Khwaja Saheb and was being paid	 Rs.100  per month.	 He was elected to the Council of States  bythe   Electoral	 College  of  Ajmer  and  the	unsuccessfulcandidate, the first respondent, challenged the election  onthe  ground  that  the appellant wag holding  an  office  ofprofit under the Government at the time of the election	 andwas,  therefore,  disqualified to be chosen as a  member  ofParliament in view of Art. 102(1) (a) of the Constitution ofIndia.	It was contended for the first respondent inter aliathat as under ss. 5 and 9 of the Act the Government of Indiahad  the power of appointment and removal of members of	 thecommittee  of  management as also the power to	appoint	 theadministrator  in  consultation	 with  the  committee,	 theappellant  was	under  the control and	supervision  of	 theGovernment  and that therefore he was holding an  office  ofprofit under the Government of India.  But the appellant wasneither	 appointed by the Government of India nor  removableby it nor was his salary fixed by the Government and it	 waspaid out of the funds of the Durgah Endowment.Held, that the appellant was holding his appointment under acommittee  which  was  a statutory body	 and  could  not  beconsidered  as the holder of an office of profit  under	 theGovernment of India within the meaning of Art. 102(1) (a) ofthe Constitution of India.  Accordingly, the election of theappellant was valid.Shivnandan Sharma v. The Punjab National Bank Ltd., (1955) 1S.C.R. 1427, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 335 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary	 31,  1957,  of the  Election  Tribunal,  Ajmer,  inElection Petition No. 2 of 1956.50388Mukat Behari Lal Bhargava and Naunit Lal, for the appellant.Respondent No. 1 in person.1957.	September 12.  The following Judgment of  the  Courtwas delivered byKAPUR,J.-This  is an appeal from the order of  the  ElectionTribunal dated January 31, 1957, setting aside the  electionof the appellant, Maulana Abdul Shakoor, who was elected  tothe  Council  of States by the Electoral  College  of  Ajmerwhich  consisted  of  30  members  constituting	 the   StateLegislature  of	 Ajmer.	 He received 19 votes as  against  7polled	in favour of the other candidate who  is  respondentNo.  1	in  this appeal.  The total number  of	valid  votespolled was 26 and there were 3 invalid votes.  The result ofthe election was published in the Official Gazette on  March31,  1957,  declaring the election of  the  appellant.	 Theunsuccessful candidate, the present first respondent,  filedhis  election petition on May 2, 1956.	It is not  necessaryto  set out all the allegations in the petition because	 themain   controversy  between  the  parties  is  whether	 thesuccessful  candidate,	the  present appellant,	 held  an  "office	of  profit  " under the	 Government.   The  impugnedelection was held on March 22, 1956.By   a	notification  issued  on  February  17,	 1956,	 thenominations  for  candidature  were  to	 be  filed   betweenFebruary 28, 1956, and March 1, 1956.  The date for scrutinywas March 5, 1956, and for the polling March 22, 1956.	 Theappellant filed two nomination papers on February 28,  1956,and  a	third one on March 1, 1956.  The  respondent  RikhabChand  Jain  also filed his nomination papers  on  March  1,1956.	On March 5, 1956, the respondent Rikhab	 Chand	Jainraised certain objections to the validity of the appellant'snomination,  the  main ground being that the  appellant	 washolding	 an  office  of profit under  the  Government.	 TheReturning Officer by his order dated March 6, 1956, rejectedthe two nomination papers of the appellant filed on February28,  1956,  but accepted the third one, i.e.,  of  March  1,1956, because, according to that officer,389under  the  provisions of Durgah  Khwaja  Saheb	 (EmeregencyProvisions)  Act, 1950 (XVII of 1950) which was in force  upto February 29, 1956, the appellant was holding an office ofprofit under the Government but on the coming into force  ofthe  Durgah  Khwaja Saheb Act (XXXVI of 1955)  on  March  1,1956,  he no longer held such office under  the	 Government.On  May 3, 1956, the respondent filed an  election  petitionunder  s. 81 of the Representation of the People Act,  1951,in which he submitted that the third nomination paper of theappellant  should also have been rejected as even under	 theprovisions  of Durgah Khwaja Saheb Act (XXXVI of 1955),	 theappellant  was	holding	 an  office  of	 profit	 under	 theGovernment  and	 therefore  his	 case  was  covered  by	 theprovisions of Art. 102 (1)(a) of the Constitution.  He	alsoprayed that he be declared elected as the votes cast in	 theappellant's  favour  were  " thrown away  "  votes  and	 therespondent alone received a majority of valid votes.A  majority  of the Election Tribunal by their	order  datedJanuary 31, 1957, held that on March 1, 1956, the  appellantwas  holding  an office of profit under the  Government	 andtherefore his nomination paper was hit by Art. 102(1) (a) ofthe Constitution.  They set aside his election and acceptingthe  contention	 as to " thrown away "	votes  declared	 therespondent  elected.   Disagreeing with	 the  majority,	 theChairman  of  the Election Tribunal held that  on  March  1,1956,  the  appellant  was no longer holding  an  office  ofprofit	under  the  Government,	 his  nomination  paper	 wasrightly	 accepted and his election was valid  and  thereforethe  respondent	 could	not be	declared  elected.   On	 thequestion whether the two nomination papers of the  appellantdated  February	 28, 1956, were valid or  not  the  Tribunalunanimously  held them to be invalid on the ground that	 theappellant  held an office of profit under the Government  onthat date.It is not necessary to go into the question whether the	 twonomination  papers  filed by the appellant on  February	 28,1956,  were  valid or not because if  the  nomination  paperfiled  on  March  1, 1956, is valid the	 question  of  theirvalidity would not arise.  It may390here be stated that the argument before us has proceeded  onthe assumption that the appellant held an office of  profit.The  controversy between the parties was therefore  confinedto  whether  this  office  of  profit  was  held  under	 theGovernment  of India and therefore the disqualification	 formembership  under Art. 102(1)(a) applies to  the  appellant.In order to resolve this controversy the important  questionof construction that arises is: was the appellant holding anoffice of profit under the Government of India and does Art.102(1)(a)  of the Constitution operate ? This article is  asfollows:102(1) " A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as,and for being, a member of either House of Parliament-(a)  if	 he holds any office of profit under the  Governmentof  India  or  the Government of any State,  other  than  anoffice	declared by Parliament by law not to disqualify	 itsholder; "This  article occurs under the heading Disqualifications  ofMembers.   In the same part of the Constitution, i.e.,	PartV,  are	 given	the disqualifications for  election  to	 theoffices of President and Vice-President.  The relevant	partof  Art.  58 which lays down the  disqualification  for	 theoffice of the President is:Art.  58(1)  "No person shall be eligible  for	election  asPresident unless he-(a)...............................(b)...............................(c)................................(2)  A	person	shall  not  be	eligible  for  election	  asPresident  if  he  holds  any office  of  profit  under	 theGovernment of India or the Government of any State or  underany  local or other authority subject to the control of	 anyof the said Governments."There is a similar provision in regard to the Vice-Presidentin Art. 66(4).Counsel	 has  rightly  pointed out  the	 difference  in	 thelanguage  between the two articles.  Whereas in the case  ofthe President and Vice-President the holding of an office ofprofit under an authority subject to the391control of the Government is a, disqualification, it is	 notso prescribed in the case of members of the legislatures.The  Madarsa  Durgah  Khwaja  Saheb  Akbari  in	 which	 theappellant held the appointment of a manager (mohatmin) is  aschool	for  teaching Persian, Arabic and  Muslim  theology.Before 1951 it was managed and run by the Government of	 theNizam  of Hyderabad.  In 1951 this school was taken over  bythe  Durgah Committee.	On February 28, 1955, the  appellantwas  given an honorary appointment of mohatmin (manager)  ofthe school by the Administrator of Durgah Khwaja Saheb.	  Hewas  to work under the Administrator and was to hold  chargeof  the management of the school.  But from May 1955 he	 wasbeing  paid  Rs.  100 per month	 which	has  been  variouslydescribed as salary and honorarium.Counsel	  for  the  appellant  raised  three  questions	  ofconstruction that this appointment as manager of the  schoolamounted neither to an office nor to an office of profit norto  an	office of profit under the Government.	 A  decisionfavorable  to  the  appellant on the  last  question,  i.e.,office	of  profit under the Government,  would	 render	 thedecision  of the other two questions wholly unnecessary	 andtherefore  assuming  that the appellant held  an  office  ofprofit,	 the  question remains: was it an office  of  profitunder  the  Government and therefore fell  within  Art.	 102(1)(a)	of the Constitution.  In order to determine this  wehave  to examine the provisions of the Statute	under  whichthe appointing authority came into existence and its  powersunder the statute.  Before and up to 1936 the Durgah  KhwajaSaheb  Endowment was administered by a committee  which	 wasconstituted by the Chief Commissioner of Ajmer under s. 7 ofthe Religious Endowments Act (XX of 1863).  In 1936 the thenCentral	 Legislature  enacted the Durgah  Khwaja  Saheb	 Act(XXIII	of  1936).   By	 the  provisions  of  that  Act	 themanagement and administration was vested in Durgah Committeeconstituted under s. 4 of the Act.  It was a body  corporatewith  perpetual succession and common seal having the  rightto sue and be sued in the392name  of the president of the Committee.  Under s.  5  whichdealt  with  the  constitution of the Committee	 it  was  toconsist	 of  25 members some of whom were elected  and	somenominated.   Section 11(f) of the Act gave to the  Committeethe power to appoint all its servants.The  Act  of 1936 was replaced by the  Durgah  Khwaja  Saheb(Emergency  Provisions) Ordinance 3 of 1949, which  in	turnwas   replaced	by  the	 Durgah	 Khwaja	  Saheb	  (EmergencyProvisions)  Act  (XV11 of 1950).  By s. 3 of that  Act	 theDurgah	Committee  constituted	under the Act  of  1936	 wassuperseded and the management was vested in an Administratorappointed by the Central Government who under s. 7 was to beunder the control of the Central Government and had all	 thepowers	of the committee constituted under the Act of  1936.That  Act continued to be in force up to February 29,  1956,and  it was during its continuance that the appellant  filedtwo  nomination	 papers	 on February 28,  1956,	 which	wererejected by the Returning Officer.The Act of 1950 was replaced by the Durgah Khwaja Saheb	 Act(XXXVI of 1955) which, received the assent of the  Presidenton October 14, 1955, but came into force oil March 1,  1956.Under  s. 4(1) of this Act the administration,	control	 andmanagement  of the Durgah Endowment came to be vested  in  aCommittee,  which  is  a  body	corporate  having  perpetualsuccession  and	 common seal and which can sue and  be	suedthrough	 its  President.   Under s. 5 the  Committee  is  toconsist	 of not less than 5 and not more than 9 members.  ofthe  Hanafi Muslim faith all of whom are to be appointed  bythe  Central  Government.   Section 8  gives  power  to	 theCentral	 Government to supersede the Committee.	 Under s.  9the  Central Government in consultation with  the  Committeecan appoint a Nazim (administrator) of the Durgah who is  anex-officio secretary of the committee.	His salary is to  befixed by the Central Government but is to be paid out of therevenues  of  the  Durgah Endowment  funds.   The  Committeeexercises   its	  power	 of  administration,   control	 andmanagement through the Nazim,393The powers and duties of the Committee are given in s. 11 ofthe  Act; clause (i) of this section which is  relevant	 forthe purpose of this case when quoted runs as under:s.11 " The powers and duties of the Committee shall be-(i)  to appoint, suspend or dismiss servants of	 the  DurgahEndowment."Under s. 20 the Committee has the power to make bye-laws  tocarry  out  the	 purposes of the  Act,	and  the  respondentemphasised clause (1) of sub-s. 2 which provides:s.   20	 (2)  " In particular and without prejudice  to	 thegenerality of the foregoing power such bye-laws may  providefor-(i) the duties and powers of the employees of the Durgah."Sub-section 5 of this section is as follows:" (5) The Central Government may, after previous publicationof  its intention, cancel any bye-law which it has  approvedand confirmed, and thereupon the bye-law shall cease to haveeffect."The respondent contended that because under the Act of 1955,the  Committee	of  Management is to  be  appointed  by	 theGovernment  who	 also  appoint	the  Nazim   (administrator)through	 whom the Committee acts and because under  s.	6(2)the  Government has the power of removal from office of	 anymember	of the Committee and because the Committee can	makebylaws prescribing the duties and powers of the employees ofthe  Durgah,  the  appellant  was  under  the  control	 andsupervision  of the Central Government and therefore he	 washolding	 an office of profit under the Government of  India.It   is	 significant  to  note	that  in  laying  down	 thedisqualifications  of the President and	 the  Vice-Presidentthe	Constitution	has    expressly    provided	 thedisqualifications which include not only an office of profitunder the Government of India or			    394the  Government	 of any State but also an office  of  profitunder any local or other authority subject to the control ofany of the said Governments.  This last disqualification theConstitution does not make applicable to the members of	 thelegislatures.No  doubt  the Committee of the Durgah Endowment  is  to  beappointed  by  the  Government of India but  it	 is  a	bodycorporate  with perpetual succession acting within the	fourcorners	 of  the Act.  Merely because the Committee  or	 themembers of the Committee are removeable by the Government ofIndia  or  the Committee can make bye-laws  prescribing	 theduties	and  powers of its employees cannot in	our  opinionconvert the servants of the Committee into holders of officeof  profit under the Government of India.  The appellant  isneither	 appointed  by	the  Government	 of  India  nor	  isremoveable by the Government of India nor is he paid out  ofthe  revenues  of  India.  The power of	 the  Government  toappoint	 a person to an office of profit or to continue	 himin that office or revoke his appointment at their discretionand  payment from out of Government revenues  are  importantfactors	 in  determining whether that person is	 holding  anoffice of profit under the Government though payment from  asource	other  than  Government	 revenue  is  not  always  adecisive factor.  But the appointment of the appellant	doesnot come within this test.A  number  of election cases reported in  the  Election	 LawReports were cited before us but they were decided on  theirown  facts and are of little assistance in the	decision  ofthe present case.  The test of the power of dismissal by theGovernment  or	by an officer to whom such  power  has	beendelegated  which was pressed in support of his case  by	 therespondent  is	equally	 inapplicable to the  facts  of	 thepresent	 case because the appellant cannot be  dismissed  bythe  Government	 or  by	 a  person  so	authorised  by	 theGovernment.   He is a servant of a statutory body  which  inthe matter of its servants acts within the powers  conferredupon it by the statute.The  respondent then sought to fortify his sub. missions  byrelying on Shivnandan Sharma v. The,395Punjab	National Bank Ltd. (1).	 That was a case  under	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act and the question for  decision	 waswhether	 a  cashier  appointed by the  Bank's  treasurer  onbehalf of the Bank and paid by the Bank was a servant of theBank.	It was held that he was.  The rule of that  case  isthat  if the master employs a servant and authorises him  toemploy	a  number of persons to do a particular job  and  toguarantee   their   fidelity   and   efficiency	  for	cashconsideration,	the employees thus appointed by the  servantwould be, equally with the servant,, servants of the master.But  that  again  has no application to	 the  facts  of	 thepresent case because the appellant has not been employed  bya  servant  of the  Government who is authorised  to  employservants for doing some service for the Government nor is hepaid out of Indian revenues.  No doubt the non-payment	fromout  of the revenues of the Union is not always a factor  ofany  consequence  but  it  is  of  some	 importance  in	 thecircumstances of this case.A  comparison of the different articles of the	Constitution58(2),	66(4),	102  (1)(a) and 19  1  (1)(a)  dealing	withmembership  of the State Legislatures shows in the  case  ofmembers of the Legislatures unlike the case of the Presidentand  the  Vice-President of the Union  the  disqualificationarises	on account of holding an office of profit under	 theGovernment of India or the Governments of the States but notif  such  officer is under a local or  any  other  authorityunder the control of these Governments.	 As we have said thepower  of  appointment and dismissal by	 the  Government  orcontrol	  exercised  by	 the  Government  is  an   importantconsideration  which  determines  in favour  of	 the  personholding	 an office of profit under the Government,  but	 thefact  that he is not paid from out of the State revenues  isby itself a neutral factor.It has not been shown that the appellant's appointment as  amohatmin (manager) of the school satisfies any of the  testswhich have been discussed above.  On the other hand on March1, 1956, he was holding(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1427.51			    396his appointment under a Committee which is a statutory	bodyand  such appointment cannot be called an appointment by  orunder  the  control of the Government of India	nor  is	 hissalary paid out of the revenues of the Government but out ofthe  funds  of Durgah Endowment.  In the  circumstances	 themajority  of  the  Tribunal has erred in  holding  that	 theappellant held an office of profit under the Government	 andthe  opinion of the Chairman to the contrary lays  down	 thecorrect position.In  view of this finding in regard to the office  of  profitunder  the  Government, it is not necessary to go  into	 thequestion  whether  there were any " thrown away "  votes  orwhether	 the  respondent has been rightly declared  to	havebeen elected.We are of the opinion that the election of the appellant hasbeen wrongly set aside and we would allow the appeal   andset aside the order of the majority of the Tribunal.   Theappellant will have his costs in this court as	  alsobefore the Tribunal.Appeal allowed.