PETITIONER:NAGENDRA NATH BORA & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF HILLS DIVISIONAND APPEALS, ASSAM, AND OTDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/02/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  398		  1958 SCR 1240ACT:High  Court, Powers of-Writ of certiorari, if can be  issuedto  quash  an  error of fact apparent on  the  face  of	 therecord-judicial Supervision, Scope of-Appellate Authority ifand  when  acts	 in  quasi-judicial  capacity-Test-Plea	  offailure	 of  natural  justice,	when  can  be	entertained-Constitution  of  India, Arts. 226,  227Eastern	 Bengal	 andAssam  Excise  Act, 1910 (E.  B. & Assam Act I of  1910)  asamended by Ad. 23 Of 1955, s. 9, Rule 343.HEADNOTE:The High Court has no power under Art. 226 of the  Constitu-tion  to  issue a writ of certiorari in order  to  quash  anerror of fact, even though it may be apparent on the face ofthe record.  It can do so only where the error is one of lawand  that is apparent on the face of the record.  Any  errorof law or fact which it can correct as a court of appeal  orrevision  cannot be a ground for the exercise of  its  powerunder that Article.Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmed Ishaque and others,  [1955]I S.C.R. 1104, relied on.Queen v. James Bolton, (1841) (1) Queen's Bench 66, King  v.Nat  Bell  Liquors,  Limited,  [1922] 2	 A.C.  128,  Rex  v.Northumberland	Compensation Appeal Tribunal, (1951) 1	K.B.711 and Rex v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal  Tribunal,(1952) 1 K.B. 338, referred to.The  jurisdiction  of the High Court under Art. 226  of	 theConstitution  is  limited  to seeing that  the	judicial  orquasi-judicial tribunals or administrative bodies exercisingquasi-judicial	 powers,  do  not  exceed  their   statutoryjurisdiction  and correctly administer the law laid down  bythe statute under which they act.  So long as the  hierarchyof  officers and Appellate authorities created by a  statutefunction within their ambit, the manner in which they do  socan be no ground for interference.The  powers of judicial supervision of the High Court  underArt.  227  Of the Constitution are not	greater	 than  thoseunder  Art.  226  and must be limited  to  seeing  that	 thetribunal functions within the limits of its authority.Waryam	Singh  and another v. Amarnath and  another,  [1954]S.C.R. 565, referred to.Consequently, where the High Court in exercise of its powersunder Arts. 226 and 227 Of the Constitution interfered with			    1241certain orders made by the Excise Appellate Authority  underthe Assam Excise Act as being in excess of its	jurisdictionon  the	 ground that they were vitiated by  errors  of	factapparent  on the face of the record, such  interference	 waswithout jurisdiction and the orders passed by the High Courtmust be set aside.Held  further, that where an appellate Authority, as in	 theinstant	 case, is constituted the highest authority  by	 thestatute for deciding as between the claims of rival parties,its  powers  cannot be circumscribed nor can it be  held  tohave  acted in excess of its powers or without	jurisdictionon considerations foreign to the statute or the rules.Raman  and Raman Ltd. v. The State of Madyas, [1956]  S.C.R.256, referred to.In  the	 absence  of anything to  show	that  the  appellateAuthority  had	contravened any rules  of  natural  justice,which  must be understood in the context of the' rules	laiddown  by the statute itself, it would be wrong to  say	thatthere  has been a failure of natural justice simply  becausethe  view it took of the matter might not be  acceptable  toanother tribunal.New Prakask Transport Co. Ltd. v. New Suwarna Transport	 Co.Ltd., [1957] S.C.R. 98, relied on.The  question whether an administrative authority  functionsmerely in an administrative or quasi-judicial capacity	mustbe determined on an examination of the statute and its rulesunder  which  it  acts, and there can be no  doubt  on	suchexamination  that the Authorities mentioned in s. 9  of	 theEastern	 Bengal	 and Assam Excise Act, 1910, as	 amended  byAssam Act 23 Of 1953, are no mere administrative bodies	 andtheir  orders  are,  therefore, amenable to  the  powers  ofcontrol	 and supervision vested in the High Court  by  Arts.226 and 227 Of the Constitution.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil AppealsNos. 668, 669, 670 and 672 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedAugust 6, 1957, of the Assam High Court in Civil Rule No. 65of 1957.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri and Dipak Datta Choudhury, for theappellants  in	C.  As.	  Nos.	668  and  669  of  1957	 andrespondent No. 2 in C.A. No. 670 of 1957.S.   M. Lahiri, Advocate-General for the State of Assam	 andNaunit	Lai, for the appellants in C.A. No. 670 of 1957	 andrespondent No. 2 in C.A. No. 669 of 1957.1958.	February 7. The following Judgment of the Court	 wasdelivered by1342SINHA J.-These appeals by special leave are directed againstthe judgments and orders of the Assam High Court, exercisingits  powers under Arts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution,  inrespect	 of orders passed by the Revenue  Authorities  underthe  provisions of the Eastern Bengal and Assam Excise	Act,1910 (E.  B. and Assam Act I of 1910) (hereinafter  referredto  as	the Act).  They raise certain  common  questions  ofconstitutional	 law,  and  have,  therefore,	been   heardtogether, and will be disposed of by this Judgment.   Thoughthere  are  certain common features in the  pattern  of	 theproceedings  relating to the settlement of  certain  countryspirit shops, when they passed through the hierarchy of	 theauthorities  under  the	 Act, the facts	 of  each  case	 aredifferent, and have to be stated separately in so far as  itis necessary to state them.(1) Civil Appeal No. 668 of 1957.The two appellants Nagendra Nath Bora and Ridananda Dutt arepartners, the partnership having been formed in view of	 theGovernment  notification dated November 30,  1956,  amendingrule  232 of the Assam Excise Rules, to the effect that	 thesettlement of the country spirit shops which may be declaredby the Government to be 'big shops', shall be made with	 twoor more partners who shall not belong to the same family norshould be related to one another (vide correction slip at p.106  of the Assam Excise Manual, 1946).	 In accordance	withthe rules framed under the Act, tenders were invited by	 theDeputy	Commissioner  of  Sibsagar, for	 the  settlement  ofJorhat	country spirit shop for the financial year  1957-58,in  December,  1956.   The  appellants	as  members  of	 thepartnership aforesaid, submitted a tender in the  prescribedform.  Respondents 3 and 4, Dharmeshwar Kalita and  SomeswarNeog,  respectively, also were amongst the  tenderors.	 TheCommissioner of Hills Division and Appeals,, Assam, and	 theCommissioner of Excise, Assam, are the first and the  secondrespondents  in this case It is necessary to state  at	thisstage  that  in respect of the financial year  1956-57,	 theshop in1243question  was ordered by the first respondent as the  ExciseAppellate  Authority to be settled with the first  appellantNagendra Nath as an individual, setting aside the orders  ofthe  Deputy Commissioner and the Excise	 Commissioner.	 Theother competitors for the settlement of the said shop  beingdissatisfied with the orders of the first respondent,  movedthe  Assam  High, Court and challenged the validity  of	 thesettlement  made in the first appellant's  favour.   Similarwrit  cases  challenging orders of settlement by  the  firstrespondent  as	the  Excise Appellate  Authority,  had	beeninstituted  in the High Court.	All those cases	 were  heardtogether, and the High Court, by its judgment dated May	 22,1956,  quashed	the orders passed by the  first	 respondent,chiefly on the ground that the Appellate Authority had	beenillegally  constituted.	  The matter was brought by  way  ofspecial	  leave	 to  this  Court,  and	was  heard  by	 theConstitution Bench which, by its judgment dated January	 31,1957,  decided that the constitution of the Commissioner  ofHills  Division	 and  Appeals  as  the	ultimate   appellateAuthority  under  the Act, was	not  unconstitutional.	 Thejudgment of this Court is reported in the case of The  Stateof Assam v. A. N. Kidwai (1).  It will be necessary, in	 thecourse of this judgment, to make several references to	thatdecision  which, for the sake of brevity, we shall call	 theruling	of  this Court'.  The result of the ruling  of	thisCourt,	was that the determination by the Assam	 High  Courtthat  the orders passed by the first respondent, were  void,was  set aside, and the settlement made by  that  Authority,consequently,  stood restored.	But in the meantime, as	 theorders of the first respondent stood quashed as a result  ofthe judgment of the High Court, the direction of the  ExciseCommissioner  that  the shop in question be  resettled,	 wascarried	 out,  and the settlement was made  with  the  thirdrespondent  aforesaid  as an individual.   He  continued  inpossession  of	the shop until February 26, 1957,  on  whichdate, the first appellant was put in possession as a  resultof the ruling(1) [1957] S.C.R. 295.1581244of this Court.	Even so, the first appellant could  exercisehis  rights  as a lessee of the shop only for a	 few  monthsduring the financial year ending March 31,1957.For the financial year 1957-58, the Deputy Commissioner,  inconsultation with the local Advisory Committee, settled	 theshop in question with the third and the, fourth	 respondentsaforesaid.  The tender submitted by the appellants, was	 notconsidered  by	the  licensing authority  on  the  erroneousground that the orders passed by the first respondent as theultimate  Revenue Authority in the matter of  settlement  ofexcise shops, had been rendered null and void as a result ofthe  decision  of the High Court, referred  to	above.	 Theappellants,  as	 also others who were  competitors  for	 thesettlement  aforesaid,	preferred  appeals  to	the   ExciseCommissioner who set aside the settlement made in favour  ofthe respondents 3 and 4, and ordered settlement of the	shopwith  the  appellants.	The Excise  Commissioner  took	intoconsideration  the  fact that the order of the	High  Court,nullifying the proceedings before the first respondent,	 hadbeen set aside by the ruling of this Court.  The consequenceof  the	 order of this Court, was, as  the  Commissioner  ofExcise pointed out, that a supposed disqualification of	 theappellants as competent tenderers, stood vacated as a resultof  the first respondent's order.  The third and the  fourthrespondents, as also other dissatisfied tenderers  preferredappeals	 to  the first respondent against the order  of	 thesecond	respondent  (the Excise	 Commissioner).	  The  firstrespondent  dismissed those appeals and confirmed the  ordersettling  the shop with the appellants, by his	order  datedJune  10,  1957.  The respondents 3 and 4, then,  moved	 theHigh Court under Arts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution,	 foran  appropriate	 writ for quashing the order passed  by	 thefirst respondent.  The High Court, by its order dated August6, 1957, quashed the aforesaid order of settlement in favourof  the appellants by the first respondent.  The High  Courtfurther directed that all the tenders be reconsidered in thelight  of  the observation made by it.	The main  ground  ofdecision in the			    1245High  Court,  was that the Excise  Appellate  Authority	 hadacted in excess of its jurisdiction, and that its order	 wasvitiated by errors apparent on the face of the record.	 Theprayer	for  a certificate that the case was a fit  one	 forappeal to this Court, having been refused by the High Court,the appellants obtained special leave to appeal.(11) Civil Appeal No. 669 of 1957.This  appeal  relates  to the  settlement  of  the  Murmuriacountry	 spirit	 shop in the district of Sibsagar,  for	 thefinancial  year 1957-58.  The appellant Lakhiram Kalita	 andthe  first  respondent Bhanurani Pegu, amongst	others,	 hadsubmitted their tenders for the settlement of the shop.	 TheDeputy	 Commissioner,	 after	 consulting   the   AdvisoryCommittee,  settled  the  shop	with  the  first  respondentaforesaid.   The  appeals filed by the appellant  and  otherdisappointed   tenderers,  were	 dismissed  by	the   ExciseCommissioner by his order dated March 25, 1957.	 Against thesaid  order, the appellant and another party  filed  furtherappeals	 to the Commissioner of Hills Division and  Appeals,who,  by  his  order  dated May	 30,  1957,  set  aside	 thesettlement  in favour of the first respondent,	and  orderedsettlement with the appellant.	In pursuance of that  order,the  appellant took possession of the shop with effect	fromJune 5, 1957.  The first respondent's application for reviewof  the order aforesaid, stood dismissed on June  11,  1957.Against	 the aforesaid orders of the Commissioner  of  HillsDivision  and Appeals, the first respondent moved  the	HighCourt  under  Arts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution,  for  aproper	writ for quashing them.	 On June 17, 1957, the	writpetition  was  heard ex parte, and the High Court  issued  arule  to show cause why a writ as prayed for, should not  beissued.	  The rule was made returnable within  three  weeks.The High Court also made the further order in these terms:-"Meanwhile, the status quo ante will be maintained."This  last order was misinterpreted by the first  respondentand his advisers as entitling them to be put in1246possession  of	the shop, and it is stated  that  the  firstrespondent  threatened	the appellant to oust him  from	 theshop  on  the basis of the order of the	 High  Court  quotedabove.	  The	appellant  moved  the  High  Court   for   aclarification  of  its	order  aforesaid.   The	 High  Courtnaturally  observed that by I maintaining status quo  ante',the  High Court meant that whoever was in possession of	 theshop  on  June 17, 1957, will continue to be  in  possessionduring	the  pendency of the case in the High  Court.	But,curiously  enough, the Deputy Commissioner, by an  ex  parteorder, on June 21, 1957, directed that the first  respondentbe  put in charge of the shop forthwith, and the  order	 wascarried out.  When the Deputy Commissioner was approached bythe  appellant to restore him to possession in view  of	 theobservation  of	 the High Court, he asked the  appellant  toobtain	further order from the High Court.  Thereafter,	 theappellant  again  moved	 the High Court on  June  28,  1957,stating all the facts leading to his wrongful dispossession,and  seeking relief in the High Court.	No order was  passedon  that petition.  Ultimatey, the High Court, by its  orderdated July 31, 1957, set aside the order of the Commissionerof Hills Division and Appeals.	The appellant's prayer for acertificate  that the case was a fit one for appeal to	thisCourt, having been refused by the High Court, he moved	thisCourt and obtained special leave to appeal.(III) Civil Appeal No. 670 of 1957.This  appeal  is  on behalf of	the  Commissioner  of  HillsDivision and Appeals, Assam, against the judgment and  orderof the High Court relating to the Murmuria shop which is thesubject-matter	of Civil Appeal No. 669 referred to  in	 theprevious paragraph.  The first respondent to this appeal  isBhanuram  Pegu	who is also the first  respondent  in  CivilAppeal	No. 669 of 1957.  The second respondent is  LakhiramKalita who is the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 669 of 1957.Both  these  respondents,  as  already	indicated,  are	 thecompeting tenderers for the shop in question.  The facts  ofthis case have already been stated in relation1247to  Civil  Appeal  No. 669 of 1957.  This  appeal  has	beenbrought with a view to getting the legal position  clarifiedin view of the frequent appeals made to the appellant in thematter of settlement of excise shops.(IV) Civil Appeal No. 672 of 1957.This  appeal relates to the Tinsukia country spirit shop  inthe  district of Lakhimpur.  The appellants,  Rafiulla	Khanand  Mahibuddin	 Ahmad,	 are  partners,	 and  as  such,	 areinterested  in the settlement of the shop for the  financialyear  1957-58.	This shop had been jointly settled with	 thefirst  appellant and his father for a number of years.	 Forthe year 1956-57 also, the lease had been granted to them bythe   Deputy  Commissioner,  after  consultation  with	 theAdvisory  Committee.   A number	 of  unsuccessful  tenderersfiled  appeals before the Commissioner of Excise  questiningthe  settlement with the first appellant and his  father  inrespect	 of the year 1956-57.  The Excise  Commissioner	 setaside the settlement, and ordered a resettlement.  The firstappellant  and his father filed an appeal before the  ExciseAppellate  Authority, against the order of the	Commissionerof Excise.  The Appellate Authority allowed the appeal,	 andset  aside  the orders of the Commissioner  and	 the  DeputyCommissioner.	One Rafiqul Hussain, one of the	 competitorsfor  the shop, filed a writ petition before the	 High  Courtunder  Arts.  226 and 227 of the  Constitution.	  This	writapplication,  along  with other	 similar  applications,	 washeard and decided by the High Court, as afore. said, by	 itsjudgment  dated May 23, 1956.  Against the judgment  of	 theHigh  Court, the first appellant and his father appealed  tothis  Court  by	 special leave, with  the  result  indicatedabove.	 During the pendency of the appeal in this Court  inthe   absence  of  a  stay  order,  the	 direction  of	 theCommissioner  for  a  resettlement, was	 carried  out.	 TheDeputy	Commissioner,  with  the  unanimous  advice  of	 theAdvisory Committee settled the shop with the first appellanton  July  25, 1956.  The first respondent  and	some  otherspreferred appeals before the Commissioner of Excise, againstthe order aforesaid of the Deputy Commissioner.	 As the1248special	 leave	appeals to this Court were pending  at	thattime,  the Excise Commissioner, under a	 misapprehension  ofthe effect of this Court's order refusing interim stay,	 setaside  the  Deputy Commissioner's order,  and  directed	 thesettlement  to be made with the first respondent.  As  therewas no Excise Appellate Authority functioning at the time asa  result  of the decision, aforesaid, of  the	High  Court,declaring the constitution of such an Authority to be  void,the first appellant moved the High Court under Arts. 226 and227 of the Constitution, on the ground that the order of theExcise Commissioner was vitiated by an error apparent on theface  of  the record in so far as he had  misunderstood	 theorder of the Supreme Court passed on the stay petition.	 TheHigh Court admitted the application but rejected the  prayerfor  maintenance of status quo in the sense that  the  firstappellant's possession be maintained.  On the stay  petitionbeing rejected by the High Court, the first respondent	tookpossession of the shop from the first appellant as a  resultof the Excise Commissioner's order in his favour.  The	HighCourt ultimately dismissed the writ application by its orderdated  December 6, 1.956. The appeal filed by the  appellantand his father, already pending in this Court, was heard anddetermined  as	aforesaid,  in January,	 1957.	 This  Courtreversed  the decision of the High Court, and  restored	 thestatus	of the Excise Appellate Authority.  As a  result  ofthe ruling of this Court, the Excise Appellate Authority, byits  order  dated February 25, 1957,  directed	delivery  ofpossession  back  to  the first appellant  and	his  father,holding that the order of resettlement and the resettlement,itself,	 in  pursuance of that order, were  all	 wiped	out.Against the said order, the first respondent moved the	HighCourt  under  Arts.  226 and 227  of  the  Constitution	 forquashing the order for delivery of possession, on the groundof want of jurisdiction, and for ad interim stay.  The	HighCourt issued a rule and passed an order for interim stay  onFebruary 26, 1957.  The High Court made the rule absolute byits  order  dated March 26, 1957, taking the view  that	 theattention of this Court had not been drawn to the interim1249settlement  of the shop in the absence of an order of  stay.It appears further that during the pendency of the appeal inthis Court, fresh settlement for the financial year 1957-58,took  place  towards the end of 1956, and the  beginning  of1957.  The Tinsukia shop -was settled with respondents I and2 though the appellants also had jointly submitted a  tenderfor  the same.	The appellants and other  parties  preferredappeals	 against  the said order of settlement made  by	 theDeputy Commissioner.  The Excise Commissioner set aside	 thesettlement   by	 the  Deputy  Commissioner,   and   directedsettlement  in favour of the appellants by his	order  datedApril 16, 1957.	 Against that order, respondents I and 2 andothers	 preferred  appeals  before  the  Excise   AppellateAuthority who, by an order dated June 3, 1957, dismissed theappeals.  Accordingly, the appellants were given  possessionof the shop on June 7, 1957.  The respondents I and 2  againmoved  the High Court for quashing the order of	 the  ExciseAppellate   Authority,	 affirming  that   of	the   ExciseCommissioner,  and  also  prayed for the  status  quo  beingmaintained.   The  High	 Court	admitted  the  petition	 andordered	 " meanwhile, status quo ante be  maintained."	Thistook place on June 10, 1957.  In pursuance of the  aforesaidorder of the High Court, the appellants were dispossessed ofthe  shop even though they had been put in  possession	onlythree	days   earlier.	  This	was  done  on	a   completemisapprehension of the true effect of the order of the	HighCourt  maintaining status quo ante.  If the High  Court	 hadpassed	its  order in a less sophisticated and	more  easilyunderstood  language in that part of the  country,  perhaps,the party in possession, would not have been dispossessed ofthe  shop  settled with it.  The appellants moved  the	HighCourt against the Commissioner's order directing  possessionto  be	given  to the respondents 1 and 2.  The	 High  Courtissued a rule but refused to grant stay of the operation  ofthe  order  directing possession to be	given.	 During	 thefinal  hearing	of  the	 rule before  the  High	 Court,	 theappellants  again  moved  a petition on July  5,  1957,	 forvacating the1250order of possession which was based on a misapprehension  ofthe order of the High Court maintaining status quo ante, butapparently,  no	 order	was passed  because  possession	 hadalready	 been given to the respondents I and 2.	 During	 thehearing	 of  the  rule by the  High  Court,  an	 unfortunateincident   occurred,   for  which  the	 appellants   cannotaltogether  be absolved of some responsibility, as a  resultof which, one of the learned judges constituting the  Bench,namely, Deka J. expressed his unwillingness to proceed	withthe hearing of the case.  The hearing had, therefore, to  beadjourned  on  July  15, 1957, until a new  Bench  could  beconstituted.   The  appellants	renewed	 their	 applicationalready	 made  on  July 5, as  aforesaid,  for	undoing	 theunintended  effect of the order of the High Court, that	 thestatus quo ante was to continue.  But on July 30, the  ChiefJustice directed that the matter be placed before a DivisionBench.	 As  there  was	 no third judge	 at  the  time,	 thedisposal of the case, naturally had to stand over until	 thethird  judge  was  available.  The  matter  of	delivery  ofpossession was again mentioned before the Division Bench  ofthe  Chief Justice and Deka J. The High Court  rejected	 theapplication  on grounds which cannot bear a close  scrutiny.The   petitioners  also	 approached  the  Excise   AppellateAuthority,  but it refused to reconsider the matter  as	 thecase  was  then	 pending before the High  Court.   Again  onAugust	14, 1957, a fresh application was made to  the	HighCourt, along with a copy of the orders passed by the  ExciseAppellate Authority and the Deputy Commissioner,  Lakhimpur,giving	delivery of possession to respondents 1 and 2.	But,this  time,  Deka  J.  refused	to  hear  the  matter,	 andnaturally,  the	 Chief	Justice directed the  matter  to  beplaced	before him, sitting singly. on August 19, 1957,	 thematter	was placed before the Chief Justice sitting  singly,and he directed a rule to issue on the opposite party  citedbefore	that Court, to show cause.  Apparently, the  learnedChief Justice treated the matter as a new case and not as anoff-shoot of the case already pending before the High Court.The High Court closed for the long vacation on September  2,and was to reopen on			    1251November  3, 1957.  The vacancy of the third judge  had	 notbeen filled till then, and as the appellants felt that	theyhad  been wrongfully deprived of their right to	 hold  theirshop,  as  a result of an erroneous  interpretation  of	 theorder  of the High Court, passed on June 10,  as  aforesaid,and  as there was no prospect of the case being disposed  ofquickly,  the  appellants  moved  this	Court  and  obtainedspecial leave to appeal.As is evident from the statement of facts in connection witheach  one  of the appeals, set out above, these	 cases	havefollowed  a  common  pattern.	They  come  from  the  'non-prohibited  areas  in  the  State of  Assam  where  sale  of'country  spirit'  is regulated by licences  issued  by	 theauthorities under the provisions of the Act.  Settlement  ofshops for the sale of such liquor is made for one year AprilI to March 31.	According to the present practice  containedin   Executive	 lnstructions,	intending   candidates	 forlicences, have to submit tenders to the Deputy	Commissionerfor  the Sadar Division and to Sub-Divisional  officers	 forSub-Divisions,	in  accordance	with the  terms	 of  noticespublished  for	the purpose.  Such tenders  are	 treated  asstrictly  confidential.	  Settlement is made by	 the  DeputyCommissioner or the Sub-Divisional Officer concerned, as thecase  may  be, in consultation with  an	 Advisory  Committeeconsisting  of 5 local members or less.	 The selection of  aparticular   tenderer	is  more  or  less   a	 matter	  ofadministrative	discretion  with  the  officer	making	 thesettlement.   Under  the  Act, an appeal from  an  order  ofsettlement  made by a Deputy Commissioner or  Sub-Divisionalofficer,  lies	to the Commissioner of Excise, and  from  anorder of the Commissioner of Excise to the Excise  AppellateAuthority  whose decision becomes final.  Section 9  of	 theAct,  dealing  with  appeal and revision,  has	undergone  aseries of amendments, and the section as it has emerged	 outof the latest amendment by the Amending Act-The Assam Act 23of  1955-which received the assent of the Governor of  Assamon December 22, 1955, and was published in the Assam Gazettedated1591252December 28, 1955, is in these terms:"9. (1) Orders passed under this Act or under any rule	madehereunder  shall  be  appealable as follows  in	 the  mannerprescribed by such rules as the State Government may make inthis behalf-(a)  to	 the  Excise Commissioner, any order passed  by	 theDistrict  Collector or a Collector other than  the  DistrictCollector,(b)  to	 the  Appellate	 Authority appointed  by  the  StateGovernment  for the purpose, any order passed by the  ExciseCommissioner.(2)  In	 cases	not provided for by clauses (a) and  (b)  ofsub-section  (1), orders passed under this Act or under	 anyrules made hereunder shall be appealable to such authoritiesas the State Government may prescribe.(3)  The Appellate Authority, the Excise Commissioner or theDistrict Collector may call for the proceedings held by	 anyofficer or person subordinate to it or him or subject to itsor his control and pass such orders thereon as it or he	 maythink fit."Rules  339,  340, 341 and 345 of the  Assam  Excise  Manual,have,  thus,  become  obsolete and have been  deleted  as  aresult	of  the latest amendment aforesaid.   The  power  ofhearing appeals and revisions under the Act, has been vestedsuccessively  in the Board, the Assam Revenue Tribunal,	 theCommissioner for Hills Division and Appeals; and ultimately,under the amended section, in the Appellate Authority.	 Thehistory	 of the legislation relating to the highest  RevenueAuthority under the Act, has been traced in the judgment  ofthis Court in the State of Assam v.A.N. Kidwai (supra), and need not be repeated here.It is convenient, first, to deal with the general questions ofpublic importance raised on behalf of the appellant    inCivil Appeal No. 670 of 1957.  At the forefront	  of	 thearguments advanced on behalf of the Appellate Authority, wasthe  plea  that the several authorities	 already  indicated,concerned with the settlement of excise shops like those  inquestion in these appeals, are merely administrative bodies,and,1253therefore, their orders whether passed in the first instanceor   on	 appeal,  should  not  be  amenable  to	  the	writjurisdiction  or supervisory jurisdiction of the High  Courtunder Arts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution.  If the  matterhad  rested only with the provisions of the Act, apart	fromthe rules made under s. 36 of the Act, much could have	beensaid  in support' of this contention.  As observed  by	thisCourt  in  the case of Cooverjee B. Bharucha v.	 The  ExciseCommissioner and the Chief Commissioner, Ajmer and others(1)there is no inherent right in a citizen to sell liquor.	  Ithas  further been observed by this Court in the recent	caseof the State of Assam v. A. N. Kidwai, (supra), at page	 301as follows:" A perusal of the Act and rules will make it clear that  DOperson	has any absolute right to sell liquor and  that	 thepurpose of the Act and the rules is to control and  restrictthe  consumption of intoxicating liquors, such	control	 andrestriction  being obviously necessary for the	preservationof public health and morals, and to raise revenue."It  is true that no one has an inherent right to  settlementof  liquor  shops,  but when the State,	 by  public  notice,invites candidates for settlement to make their tenders, andin pursuance of such a notice, a number of persons make suchtenders each one makes a claim for himself in opposition  tothe  claims  of	 the  others,  and  the	 public	 authoritiesconcerned  with the settlement, have to choose from  amongstthem.	If  the choice had rested in the hands of  only	 oneauthority  like	 the District Collector	 on  his  subjectivesatisfaction  as  to the fitness of a  particular  candidatewithout his orders being amenable to an appeal or appeals orrevision, the position may have been different.	 But s. 9 ofthe  Act has laid down a regular hierarchy  of	authorities,one  above the other, with the right of hearing	 appeals  orrevisions.  Though the Act and the rules do not, in  expressterms,	require reasoned orders to be recorded, yet, in	 thecontext	 of  the  subject matter of the	 rules,	 it  becomesnecessary for the(I)  [1954] S. C. R. 873, 880.1254several	 authorities  to  pass what are	 called	 I  speakingorders'.   Where  there is a right vested  in  an  authoritycreated	 by statute, be it administrative or  quasijudicial,to  hear appeals and revisions, it becomes its duty to	hearjudicially,  that  is  to  say,	 in  an	 objective   manner,impartially  and after giving reasonable opportunity to	 theparties concerned in the dispute, to place their  respectivecases  before it.  In this connection, the  observations  ofLord  Haldane at p. 132, and of Lord Moulton at p.  150,  inLocal  Government  Board v. Arlidge (1),  to  the  followingeffect are very apposite:appeal is imposed, those whose duty it is to decide it	mustact  judicially.  They must deal with the question  referredto  them  without bias, and they must give to  each  of	 theparties	 the opportunity of adequately presenting  the	casemade.	The decision must be come to in the spirit and	withthe  sense of responsibility of a tribunal whose duty it  isto  mete  out  justice.	 But it does  not  follow  that	 theprocedure of every such tribunal must be the same."Lord   Moulton:	 "  In	the  present  case,   however,	 theLegislature  has provided an appeal, but it is an appeal  toan administrative department of State and not to a  judicialbody.	It is said, truthfully, that on such an	 appeal	 theLocal Government Board must act judicially, but this, in  myopinion, only means that it must preserve a judicial  temperand  perform  its  duties  conscientiously,  with  a  properfeeling of responsibility, in view of the fact that its actsaffect	the property and rights of individuals.	  Parliamenthas  wisely  laid down certain rules to be observed  in	 theperformance  of	 its functions in these matters,  and  thoserules must be observed because they are imposed by  statute,and  for  no  other reason, and whether they  give  much  orlittle	opportunity  for  what I  may  call  quasi-litigiousprocedure  depends  solely on what  Parliament	has  thoughtright.	These rules are beyond the criticism of the  Courts,and it is not their business to add to or(1)  [1915] A.C. 120.1255take  away  from  them, or even to discuss  whether  in	 theopinion	 of  the individual members of the  Court  they	 areadequate or not."The   legal  position  has  been  very	succinctly  put	  inHalsbury's Laws of England(1), as follows:-"Moreover an administrative body, whose decision is actuatedin  whole or in part by questions of policy, may be under  aduty  to  act judicially in the course of arriving  at	thatdecision.  Thus, if in order to arrive at the decision,	 thebody concerned had to consider proposals and objections	 andconsider  evidence,  if	 at some stage	of  the	 proceedingsleading up to the decision there was something in the natureof a lis before it, then in the course of such considerationand  at	 that stage the body would be under a  duty  to	 actjudicially.   If, on the other hand, an administrative	bodyin  arriving at its decision has before it at no  stage	 anyform of lis and throughout has to consider the question fromthe  point  of view of policy and expediency, it  cannot  besaid that it is under a duty at any time to act	 judicially.Even  where  the body is at some stage	of  the	 proceedingsleading	 up to the decision under a duty to act	 judicially,the supervisory jurisdiction of the Court does not extend toconsidering the sufficiency of the grounds for, or otherwisechallenging, the decision itself."The  provisions	 of the Act are intended  to  safeguard	 theinterest  of the State on the one band, by stopping,  or  atany  rate, checking illicit distillation, and on  the  otherband,  by raising the maximum revenue consistently with	 theobservance  of	the rules of  temperance.   The	 authoritiesunder  the Act, with Sub-divisional Officers at	 the  bottomand  the Appellate Authority at the apex of the	 'hierarchy,are charged with those duties.	The rules under the Act	 andthe executive instructions which have no statutory force butwhich are meant for the guidance of the officers  concerned,enjoin	upon those officers, the duty of seeing to  it	thatshops  are settled with persons of character and  experiencein the line, subject to certain reservations in(1)  Vol.  II. 3rd Edn., PP. 56-57.1256favour	of  tribal population.	Except	those  general	con-siderations, there are no specific rules governing the grantof  leases or licences in respect of liquor shops, and in  acertain contingency, even drawing of lots, is provided	for,vide  Executive	 Instructions 110 at p. 174 of	the  Manual.The  words of sub-s. (3) of s. 9 as amended, set out  above,vest  complete	discretion in the Appellate  Authority,	 theExcise Commissioner or the District Collector, to 'pass suchorders	thereon as it or he may think fit.' The sections  ofthe  Act  do  not make any reference  to  the  recording  ofevidence or hearing of parties or even recording reasons fororders	passed	by the authorities aforesaid.  But  we	havebeen  informed at the bar that as a matter of practice,	 theauthorities under the Act, hear counsel for the parties, andgive  reasoned	judgments,  so	as  to	enable	the   higherauthorities  to know why a particular choice has been  made.That is also apparent from the several orders passed by themin course of these few cases that are before us.But  when  we  come to the rules  relating  to	appeals	 andrevisions,  we	find that the widest scope for going  up  inappeal	or revision, has been given to	persons	 interested,because	 r.  344  only lays down that no  appeal  shall	 lieagainst	 the orders of composition, thus, leaving all  otherkinds  of  orders  open to appeal  or  revision.   Rule	 343provides that every memorandum of appeal shall be  presentedwithin	one  month  from  the date  of	the  order  appealedagainst,  subject  to  the requisite time  for	obtaining  acertified  copy	 of  the order	being  excluded.   Rule	 344requires  the  memorandum of appeal to be accompanied  by  acertified   copy  of  the  order  appealed   against.	 Thememorandum  of	appeal has to be stamped  with	a  requisitecourt-fee  stamp.   Rule  343 was  further  amended  by	 theNotification  dated March 14, 1957, by adding the  followingproviso and explanations to that rule:"  Provided further that the competent	Appellate  Authorityshall  have  the  power	 to  admit  the	 appeal	 after	 theprescribed period of limitation when the appellant satisfiesthe Appellate Authority that he had sufficient cause for notpreferring the appeal1257within such period.Explanation (1).  The fact that the appellant was misled  byany  order, practice or judgment of any Appellate  Authorityin  ascertaining  or  computing	 the  prescribed  period  oflimitation  may	 be sufficient cause within the	 meaning  ofthis Rule.Explanation (2).  The fact that the Appellate Authority	 wasunable to function for any period by reason of any  judicialpronouncement  shall be sufficient cause within the  meaningof this Rule.The amendment shall be deemed to have been made on 23rd May,1956,  and shall have retrospective effect since that  date."These rules, read along with the recent amendments, set	 outabove,	approximate  the  procedure to be  followed  by	 theAppellate Authorities, to the regular procedure observed  bycourts of justice in entertaining appeals.  As would  appearfrom  the  ruling  of  this  Court  at	p.  304,  where	 theprovisions   and  effect  of  the  Assam  Revenue   Tribunal(Transfer of Powers) Act, 1948, (Assam IV of 1948) have beenset  out,  the	ultimate jurisdiction to  hear	appeals	 andrevisions, was divided between the Assam High Court and	 theAuthority  referred to in s. 3(3) of that Act.	Appeals	 andrevisions arising out of cases covered by the provisions  ofthe  enactments specified in Schedule 'A' to that Act,	wereto  lie in and to be heard by the Assam High Court, and	 thejurisdiction  to entertain appeals and revisions in  mattersarising under the provisions of the enactments specified  inSchedule 'B' to that Act, was vested in the Authority to  beset  up under s. 3(3), that is to say, for the	purposes  ofthe   present  appeals	before	us,  the  Excise   AppellateAuthority.   Thus, the Excise Appellate Authority,  for	 thepurposes of cases arising under the Act, was vested with thepower  of the highest appellate Tribunal, even as  the	HighCourt  was,  in respect of the other group of  cases.	Thatdoes   not  necessarily	 mean  that  the  Excise   AppellateAuthority  was a Tribunal of co-ordinate  jurisdiction	withthe  High Court, or that that Authority was not amenable  tothe supervisory jurisdiction of the1258High Court under Arts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution.	 Butthe juxtaposition of the two parallel highest Tribunals, onein  respect of predominantly civil cases, and the other,  inrespect	 of predominantly revenue cases (without  attemptingany  clear  cut line of demarcation), would  show  that	 theExcise	 Appellate   Authority	 was   not   altogether	  anadministrative body which had no judicial or  quasi-judicialfunctions.Neither the Act nor the rules made thereunder, indicate	 thegrounds on which the first Appellate Authority, namely,	 theExcise Commissioner, or the second Appellate Authority	(theExcise	Appellate  Authority), has to exercise	his  or	 itsappellate or revisional powers.	 There is no indication thatthey   make   any  distinction	between	  the	grounds	  ofinterference on appeal and in revision.	 That being so,	 thepowers of the Appellate Authorities in the matter of settle-ment,  would be co-extensive with the powers of the  primaryauthority,  namely,  the  District  Collector  or  the	Sub-Divisional   Officer.	 See   in   this   connection,	 theobservations  of  the Federal Court  in	 Lachmeshwar  PrasadShukul	and others v. Keshwar Lal Chaudhuri and others	(1),and  of	 this  Court in Ebrahim	 Aboobakar  and	 another  v.Custodian  -General of Evacuee Property(2).  In	 the  lattercase,  this Court, dealing with the powers of  the  Tribunal(Custodian-General of the Evacuee Property), under s. 24  ofOrdinance No. 27 of 1949, observed:" Like all courts of appeal exercising general	jurisdictionin  civil  cases,  the respondent has  been  constituted  anappellate  court  in words of the widest amplitude  and	 thelegislature  has not limited his jurisdiction  by  providingthat  such  exercise  will depend on the  existence  of	 anyparticular state of facts.Thus, on a review of the provisions of the Act and the rulesframed	thereunder, it cannot be said that  the	 authoritiesmentioned  in  s. 9 of the Act, pass  purely  administrativeorders which are beyond the ambit of the High Court's  powerof   supervision   and	 control.    Whether   or   not	  anadministrative body or(1) [1940] F.C.R. 84, 102.(2) [1952] S.C.R. 696, 704.1259authority  functions as a purely administrative one or in  aquasi-judicial capacity, must be determined in each case, onan  examination	 of  the relevant statute  and	the  rule,,;framed thereunder.  The first contention raised on behalf ofthe appellant must, therefore, be overruled.Now, turning to the merits of the High Court's order, it wascontended on behalf of the appellant that the High Court hadmisdirected  itself in holding that the Appellate  Authorityhad  exceeded its jurisdiction in passing the order it	did.There is no doubt that if the Appellate Authority whose dutyit  is	to  determine  questions  affecting  the  right	  tosettlement of a liquor shop, in a judicial or quasi-judicialmanner, acts in excess of its authority vested by law,	thatis  to say, the Act and the rules thereunder, its  order  issubject to the controlling authority of the High Court.	 Thequestion, therefore, is whether the High Court was right  inholding that the Appellate Authority had exceeded its  legalpower.	In this connection, it is best to reproduce, in	 thewords of the High Court itself, what it conceived to be	 thelimits of the appellatejurisdiction:"In  other words, it is not for the Appellate  Authority  tomake  the choice, since the choice has already been made  bythe  officers below; and it is not only where the choice  isperverse  or  illegal and not in accordance with  the  Rulesthat  the Appellate Authority can interfere with  the  orderand make its own selected (sic.) out of the persons offeringtenders.   If the Appellate bodies chose to act	 differentlyand consider themselves free to make their own choice of theperson	 to  be	 offered  settlement  irrespective  of	 therecommendations	 of the Deputy Commissioner or	the  Officerconducting  the	 settlement, the Appellate  bodies  will  beobviously  exceeding  the jurisdiction, which  they  possessunder  the law or going beyond the scope of their  authorityas contemplated by the Rules.  "In  our	 opinion,  in so circumscribing the  powers  of	 theAppellate Authority, the High Court has erred.	See in	thisconnection, the decision of this Court in Raman1601260and  Raman  Ltd. v. The State of Madras(1).  In	 that  case,this  Court dealt with the powers of the  State	 Government,which had been vested with the final authority in the matterof grant of stage carriage permits.  This Court held that asthe   State  Government	 had  been  constituted	 the   finalauthority  under  the  "Motor Vehicles	Act,  to  decide  asbetween the rival claimants for permits, its decision  couldnot  be interfered with under Art. 226 of the  Constitution,merely	because	 the Government's view may have	 been  erro-neous.	 In  the instant cases, the Appellate  Authority  iscontemplated by s. 9 of the Act, to be the highest authorityfor  deciding  questions of settlement of liquor  shops,  asbetween	 rival	claimants.   The appeal	 or  revision  beingundefined and unlimited in its scope, the highest  authorityunder the Act, could not be deprived of the plenitude of itspowers	by introducing considerations which are	 not  withinthe Act or the rules.It  is true that the Appellate Authority should not  lightlyset aside the selection made by the primary Authority,	thatis to say, a selection made by a Subdivisions Officer or  bya District Collector, should be given due weight in view  ofthe  fact  that they have much greater opportunity  to	knowlocal	conditions  and	 local	business  people  than	 theAppellate Authority, even as the appeal courts are  enjoinednot  to interfere lightly with findings of fact recorded  bythe  original  courts which had the  opportunity  of  seeingwitnesses  depose  in  court,  and  their  demeanour   whiledeposing  in  court.   But it is not correct  to  hold	thatbecause the Appellate Authority, in the opinion of the	HighCourt, has not observed that caution, the choice made by it,is in excess of its power or without jurisdiction.The  next  ground of attack against the order  of  the	HighCourt,	under appeal, was that the High Court had  erred  incoming	to the conclusion that there had been a	 failure  ofnatural	 justice.   In this connection, the High  Court	 hasmade  reference	 to the several affidavits filed  on  eitherside, and the order in which they(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 256.1261had  been  filed, and the use made of  those  affidavits  orcounter-affidavits.  As already indicated, the rules make noprovisions   for   the	reception  of	evidence   oral	  ordocumentary,  or the hearing of oral arguments, or even	 forthe issue of notice of the hearing to the parties concerned.The  entire  proceedings are marked by a  complete  lack  offormality.  The several authorities have been left to  theirown   resources	 to  make  the	best  selection.   In	thisconnection,  reference	may be made to the  observations  ofthis Court in the case of New Prakash Transport Co., Ltd. v.New  Suwarna  Transport Co., Ltd. (1).	In that	 case,	thisCourt  has laid down that the rules of natural justice	varywith  the varying constitutions of statutory bodies and	 therules prescribed by the Act under which they function ;	 andthe question whether or not any rules of natural justice hadbeen  contravened,  should  be decided not  under  any	pre-conceived  notions, but in the light of the statutory  rulesand  provisions.   In the instant case, no such	 rules	havebeen brought to our notice, which could be said to have beencontravened  by the Appellate Authority.  Simply because  itviewed	a  case	 in  a particular light	 which	may  not  beacceptable to another independent tribunal, is no ground forinterference  either  under  Art. 226 or  Art.	227  of	 theConstitution.It remains to consider the last contention raised on  behalfof the appellants in these cases, namely, whether there	 hasbeen  any error apparent on the face of the record,  in	 theorder  of the Appellate Authority, which would	attract	 thesupervisory  jurisdiction  of  the  High  Court.   In	thisconnection, the following observations of the High Court arerelevant:"  But	the most glaring error on face of the order  of	 theAppellate  Authority is that it does not even refer  to	 thereport	of  the	 Deputy Commissioner  on  which	 the  ExciseCommissioner had so strongly relied.  In my opinion, it	 wasunder  the  Rules obligatory on the Appellate  Authority  toconsider that report before disposing of the appeal, and  infailing to do so, the officer(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 98.1262acted  arbitrarily  and	 in  excess  of	 his  powers  as  anAppellate Authority."It may be that durinly the prolonged hearing of these  casesbefore	the  High  Court where, counsel	 for  the  differentparties	 placed	 their respective view-points  after  makingcopious	 references to the documents, the ',-High Court	 wasgreatly	 impressed that the order of settlement in one	case(Murmuria  shop),  made	 by  the  Deputy  Commissioner,	  asconfirmed by the Excise Commissioner, was the right one	 andthat  the  choice made by the Appellate	 Authority  did	 notcommend	 itself to the High Court.  It may further  be	thatthe  conclusions  of  fact of the High Court  were  more  inconsonance  with the entire record of the  proceedings,	 andthat the choice made by the ultimate Revenue Authority,	 waswrong.	 But,  under the law as it stands,  the	 High  Courtexceeded  its  powers in pronouncing upon the  merits  of  acontroversy which the Legislature has left to the discretionof the Appellate Authority.  But is that a mistake  apparenton  the face of the record, as understood in the context  ofArt. 226 of the Constitution ?That leads us to a consideration of the nature of the  errorwhich can be said to be an error apparent on the face of therecord	which  would be one of the grounds  to	attract	 thesupervisory jurisdiction of the High Court under Art. 226 ofthe Constitution.  The ancient writ of certiorari which	 nowin  England  is known as the order of certiorari,  could  beissued	on  very limited grounds.  These grounds  have	beendiscussed by this Court in the cases of:Parry  &  Co. v. Commercial Employee's	Association,  Madras(1),Veerappa Pillai v.  Raman and Raman Ltd., andothers (2),Ibrahim Aboobaker v. Custodian General of EvacueeProperty (3),T. C. Basappa v. T. NagappaAll these cases have been considered by this Court in(1) [1952] S.C.R. 519.	     (2) [1952] S.C.R. 583.(3) [1952] S.C.R. 696.	     (4) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 250.1263the  case  of Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmad	Ishaque	 andothers	(1).   Venkatarama Ayyar J., speaking for  the	fullCourt, laid down four propositions bearing on the  characterand scope of the writ of certiorari as established upon	 theauthorities.   The third proposition out of those four,	 maybe stated in the words of that learned Judge, as follows:" The Court issuing a writ of certiorari acts in exercise ofa   supervisory	  and  not  appellate	jurisdiction.	 Oneconsequence  of	 this  is that the  Court  will	 not  reviewfindings of fact reached by the inferior Court or  Tribunal,even if they be erroneous."While  considering the fourth proposition whether  the	writcan be issued in the case of a decision which was  erroneousin  law, after considering the recent Authorities, the	samelearned	 Judge, in the course of his judgment, at  p.  1123,has observed as follows:"  It  may  therefore be taken as settled  that	 a  writ  ofcertiorari could be issued to correct an error of law.	 Butit is essential that it should be something more than a mereerror: it must be one which must be manifest on the face  ofthe record."The  High  Court appears to have been under  the  impressionthat  the  expression  "error apparent on the  face  of	 therecord"	 may  also be in respect of findings of	 fact.	 Forexample, in Civil Appeal No. 668 of 1957, relating to Jorhatshop, the High Court has observed as follows:"  The Appellate Authority further reinforced its  suspicionby  mentioning that Dharmeswar, his father and	brother	 aresummoned  in connection with some complaint, but that was  amatter	purely extraneous, ,to speak the least-and it  couldhave   found  that  the	 complaint  was	 filed	 after	 thesettlement.   The complaint had no reference to any  offenceof  smuggling or the like as has been conceded.	 These	wereerrors ap. parent on the face of the record."Later,	in  the	 course of the same judgment,  it  has	beenobserved as follows:" This is another instance where I find that theExcise Appellate Authority has misconceived its(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1104, 1121.1264powers as such and purported to decide the appeal either  onerrors	 of   record,	speculations   or   on	  irrelevantconsiderations,	 irrespective  of all that happened  in	 theearlier	 stages of the matter.	It starts with	an  apparenterror  of  record when it says that in the judgment  of	 theExcise	Commissioner it finds 'a clear admission  that	ShriGarela	Kalita,	 father	 of Shri  Dharmeswar  Kalita,  is  asuspected  smuggler.' In fact, there was no such  admission.It  was held by the Commissioner on the contrary  that	'thelearned	 Deputy	 Commissioner and members  of  the  AdvisoryCommittee thought that the major son who bears an  excellentcharacter should not be punished for the alleged sin of	 hisfather'."These  excerpts from the judgment of the High Court are	 notexhaustive,  but only illustrative of the  observation	thatthe  High Court appears to have treated an error of fact  onthe same footing as an error of law apparent on the face  ofthe  record.   The question, naturally,	 arises	 whether  anerror of fact can be invoked in aid of the power of the HighCourt to quash an order of a subordinate court or  Tribunal.The  High Court would appear to have approximated it  to  an'error	apparent on the face of the record' as used in r.  1of 0. 47 of the Civil Procedure Code, as one of the  groundsfor  review of a judgment or order; but that is clearly	 notthe  correct  position.	 Ordinarily, a mistake of law  in  ajudgment  or an order of a court, would not be a ground	 forreview.	 It is a mistake or an error of fact apparent on theface of the record, which may attract the power of review ascontemplated  by r. I of 0. 47.	 But is the power of a	HighCourt  under Art. 226 of the Constitution, to  interfere  oncertiorari, attracted by such a mistake, and not the reverseof it, in the sense that it is only an error of law apparenton the face of the record, which can attract the supervisoryjurisdiction of a High Court ?This  question,	 so far as we know, has not been  raised  inthis form in this Court in any one of the previous decisionsbearing	  on  the  scope  and  character  of  the  writ	  ofcertiorari.   It  is, therefore, necessary to  examine	thisquestion directly raised in this batch of appeals,			    1265because,  in each case, the High Court has been	 invited  toexercise  its  powers  under Art. 226, to issue	 a  writ  ofcertiorari  on the specific ground that the orders  impugnedbefore it, had been vitiated by errors apparent on the	faceof the record-errors not of law but of fact.The ancient case of the Queen v. James Bolton(1), is treatedas  a landmark on the question of the power to issue a	writor  order of certiorari.  That was a case in which an  orderof  justices for delivering up a house to  parish  officers,under  a statute, was called up on certiorari.	Lord  DenmanC.  J.	while  discharging  the	 rule,	made  the  followingobservations in the course of his judgment, which have	beentreated as authoritative and good law even now:" The first of these is a point of much importance,  becauseof  very general application ; but the principle upon  whichit  turns is very simple: the difficulty is always found  inapplying  it.	The  case to be supposed  is  one  like	 thepresent, in which the Legislature has trusted the  original,it may be (as here) the final, jurisdiction on the merits tothe   magistrates  below;  in  which  this  Court   has	  nojurisdiction  as  to  the merits  either  originally  or  onappeal.	  All  that we can then do, when their	decision  iscomplained of, is to see that the case was one within  theirjurisdiction, and that their proceedings on the face of themare  regular and according to law.  Even if  their  decisionshould upon the merits be unwise or unjust, on these groundswe cannot reverse it."While  dealing with the argument at the Bar, complaining  ofthe   unsoundness   of	the  conclusions  reached   by	 themagistrates  and  the  hardships  to  be  caused  by   theirerroneous  order, the Court made the following	observationswhich  are  very  apposite to the  facts  and  circumstancesdisclosed  in  the  instant appeals, and  which	 all  courtsentrusted with the duty of administering law, should bear inmind,  so that they may not be deflected from  the  straightpath  of  enforcing  the law,  by  considerations  based  onhardship or on vague(1)  [1841]  (I)  Queen's Bench p. 66, 72, 76;	113  EnglishReportsI054,1057,1058.1266ideas of what is sometimes described as justice of thecause:"  Beyond this we cannot go.  The affidavits,  being  beforeus,  were  used OD the argument; and much was  said  of	 theunreasonableness of the conclusion drawn by the magistrates,and of the hardship on the defendant if we would not  reviewit,  there being no appeal to the sessions.  We	 forbear  toexpress	 any  opinion on that which is not  before  us,	 the-propriety of the conclusion drawn from the evidence by	 themagistrates:   they  and  they	alone  were  the   competentauthority  to draw it; and we must not constitute  ourselvesinto a Court of Appeal where the statute does not make ussuch, because it has constituted no other.It  is	of  much more importance to hold  the  rule  of	 lawstraight  than, from a feeling of the supposed	hardship  ofany  particular	 decision,  to..  interpose  relief  at	 theexpense	 -of introducing a precedent full  of  inconvenienceand uncertainty in the decision of future cases"The case of Reg v. Bolton (supra) was approved and  followedby  the	 Privy Council in the case of the King v. Nat  B  11Liqutors, Limited (1).	In that case their Lordships of	 theJudicial  Committee held that a conviction by  a  magistratefor   a	 non-indictable	 offence,  cannot  be	quashed	  oncertiorari  on the ground that the record showed that  therewas  no	 evidence  to support the conviction,  or  that	 themagistrate  had	 misdirected  himself  in  considering	 theevidence.   It	was further laid down that  the	 absence  ofevidence  did not affect the jurisdiction of the  magistrateto  try the charge.  In the course of their judgment,  theirLord. ships further observed that the law laid down in Regv.  Bolton  (supra) has never been seriously  questioned  inEngland, and that the same rules were Applicable to    otherparts of the Commonwealth, except in so far as they may havebeen  modified	by  statute.  They also	 observed  that	 thedecision in Reg v. Bolton (supra) undoubtedly is a  landmarkin  the	 history  of certiorari, for  it  summarises  in  animpeccable  form the principles of  its	 application........But latterly, the rule(1)  [1922] 2 A.C. 128.			    1267laid  down  in Bolton's case, appears to have  been  slurredover  in some decided cases, in England, which purported  tolay  down  that	 a  writ or order  of  certiorari  could  beobtained  only if the order impugned disclosed an  error  ofjurisdiction, that is to say, complete lack of	jurisdictionor  excess  of	jurisdiction  or  the  refusal	to  exercisejurisdiction,  and  not	 to correct an error  of  law,	eventhough apparent on the face of the record.  The question wasbrought	 to  a	head in the case of  Rex  v.  NorthumberlandCompensation  Appeal  Tribunal	(1).  It  arose	 out  of  anapplication  for  an  order of	certiorari  for	 quashing  adecision   reached   by	  the	respondent    NorthumberlandCompensation Appeal Tribunal.  Lord Goddard C. J. began	 hisjudgment  by observing that the point involved in  the	casewas  "	of  the	 very greatest	importance  "  which  had  "necessitated the examination of a large number of cases	 andconsideration of the principles which apply to the  doctrineof  certiorari ". He further observed that certiorari  is  aremedy of a very special character.  He, then, discussed theobject	and scope of the writ of certiorari and the  historyof the jurisdiction as exercised in the English courts.	  Hethen  dealt  with  the contention directly  raised  for	 thedetermination of the court that an order of certiorari,	 canissue  only to remove a defect of jurisdiction and  that  itdoes  not extend to removing an order out of the way of	 theparties on account of a mistake of law apparent on the	faceof  the	 record.   The court then  considered  the  relevantauthorities, and came to the conclusion that it was wrong tohold that the ground of interference on certiorari, was onlyan  error  or excess of jurisdiction, and that	it  did	 notextend to correction of an error of law apparent on the faceof the record.	The Lord Chief Justice then pointed out thatthe  examination of the authorities bearing on the  exerciseof  the power of certiorari, yielded the result that it	 wasopen  to  the High Court to examine the record	and  to	 seewhether	 or  not there was an error of law apparent  on	 theface  of the record.  The Lord Chief Justice  concluded	 hisobservations with these remarks:-(1) [1951] 1 K.B. 711611268"  The	tribunal  have told us what  they  have	 taken	intoaccount,  what	they have disregarded, and  the	 contentionswhich  they accepted.  They have told us their view  of	 thelaw, and we are of opinion that the construction which	theyplaced	on  this  very complicated set	of  regulations	 waswrong. "This  decision was challenged, and on appeal, the  Court  ofAppeal	dealt  with  this point in  Rex	 v.  Northumberland,Compensation  Appeal  Tribunal(1).   The  Court	 of   Appealaffirmed the proposition laid down by the High Court that anorder for certiorari, can be granted and the decision of  aninferior court such as a statutory tribunal, quashed on	 theground	of  an	error of law apparent on  the  face  of	 therecord.	  Singleton  L. J. in the course  of  his  judgment,observed that an error on the face of the proceedings, whichin  that  case	was an error of law,  has  always  been	 re.cognized as one of the grounds for the issue of an order  ofcertiorari.   Denning  L.  J. also, in	the  course  of	 hisjudgment, examined the question whether the High Court couldintervene  to correct the decision of a	 statutory  tribunalwhich  is erroneous in point of law.  On an  examination  ofthe  authorities from ancient times, the Lord  Justice	madethe following observations:-" Of recent years the scope of certiorari seems to have beensomewhat forgotten.  It has been supposed to be confined  tothe correction of excess of jurisdiction, and not to  extendto the correction of errors of law ; and several judges havesaid  as  much.	  But the Lord Chief  Justice  has,  in	 thepresent	 case, restored certiorari to its rightful  positionand shown that it can be used to correct errors of law whichappear on the face of the record even though they do not  goto  jurisdiction.   I have looked into the  history  of	 thematter,	 and find that the old cases fully support all	thatthe  Lord  Chief Justice said.	Until about 100	 years	ago,certiorari  was regularly used to correct errors of  law  onthe face of the record.	 It is only within the last  centurythat  it  has fallen into disuse, and that is  only  becausethere  has,  until recently, been little  occasion  for	 itsexercise.(I)  [1952] 1 K.B. 338.1269Now,  with the advent of many new tribunals, and  the  plainneed for supervision over them, recourse must once again  behad  to	 this well-tried means of control." The	 other	LordJustice	 who took part in the hearing of the appeal,  MorrisL. J. also examined that question and concluded as follows:-"  It is plain that certiorari will not issue as the,  cloakof an appeal in disguise.  It does not lie in order to bringup an order or decision for rehearing of the issue raised inthe  proceedings.  It exists to correct error of  law  whererevealed   on  the  face  of  an  order	 or   decision,	  orirregularity,  or  absence of, or  excess  of,	jurisdictionwhere shown."I It is clear from an examination of the authorities of thisCourt  as  also of the courts in England, that	one  of	 thegrounds	 on  which  the jurisdiction of the  High  Court  oncertiorari  may be invoked, is an error of law	apparent  onthe face of the record and not every error either of law  orfact,  which  can  be  corrected by  a	superior  court,  inexercise  of  its statutory powers as a court of  appeal  orrevision.So far as we know, it has never been contended be. fore thisCourt  that  an error of fact, even though apparent  on	 theface  of the record, could be a ground for  interference  bythe  court exercising its writ jurisdiction.  No ruling	 wasbrought	 to our notice in support ,of the  proposition	thatthe  court  exercising	its powers under  Art.	226  of	 theConstitution, could quash an order of an inferior  tribunal,on  the ground of a mistake of fact apparent on the face  ofthe record.But  the  question  still remains as to what  is  the  legalimport of the expression 'error of law apparent on the	faceof  the record.' Is it every error of law that	can  attractthe supervisory jurisdiction of the High Court, to quash theorder impugned ? This court, as observed above, has  settledthe  law  in this respect by laying down that  in  order  toattract	 such jurisdiction, it is essential that  the  errorshould	be something more than a mere error of law; that  itmust be one which is manifest on the face of the record.  Inthis respect, the law in India and the law in England,	are,therefore, the same.  It is also clear, on an examination ofall1270the  authorities  of  this Court and of	 those	in  England,referred  to above, as also those considered in the  severaljudgments  of  this  Court, that the Common  Law  writ,	 nowcalled	order of certiorari, which was also adopted  by	 ourConstitution,  is not meant to take the place of  an  appealwhere  the statute does not confer a right of  appeal.	 Itspurpose	 is  only  to determine, on an	examination  of	 therecord,	 whether  the  inferior tribunal  has  exceeded	 itsjurisdiction  or  has not proceeded in accordance  with	 theessential  requirements	 of the law which it  was  meant  toadminister. ,Mere formal or technical errors, even though oflaw,  will not be sufficient to attract	 this  extraordinaryjurisdiction.The principle underlying the jurisdiction to issue a writ ororder  of  certiorari,	is no more in doubt,  but  the	realdifficulty  arises,  as	 it  often  does,  in  applying	 theprinciple  to the particular facts of a given case.  In	 thejudgments  and	orders impugned in these appeals,  the	HighCourt has exercised its supervisory jurisdic note in respectof errors which cannot be said to be errors of law  apparenton the face of the record.  If at all they are errors,	theyare  errors  in	 appreciation  of  documentary	evidence  oraffidavits,  errors  in drawing -inferences or	omission  todraw  inferences.  In other words, those are errors which  acourt sitting as a court of appeal only, could have examinedand,  if  necessary, corrected.	 As already  indicated,	 theAppellate  Authority had unlimited jurisdiction	 to  examineand appreciate the evidence in the exercise of its appellateor revisional jurisdiction.  Section 9(3) of the Act,  givesit  the power to pass such orders as it thought fit.   Theseare words of very great amplitude.  The jurisdiction of	 theAppellate  Authority,  to entertain the appeals,  has  neverbeen  in doubt or dispute.  Only the manner of the  exerciseof its appellate jurisdiction was in controversy, It has notbeen  shown  that in exercising its  powers,  the  AppellateAuthority  disregarded any mandatory provisions of the	law.The  utmost  that  has been suggested, is that	it  has	 notcarried out certain Executive Instructions.  For example, ithas been said that the Appellate  Authority did not  observethe1271instructions  that  tribal people have to be  given  certainpreferences,  or,  that persons on the debarred	 list,	like,smugglers,  should be kept out (see p. 175 of the  Manual).But all these are only Executive Instructions which have  nostatutory  force.  Hence, even assuming, though it is by  nomeans clear, that those instructions have been	disregarded,the  non-observance of those instructions cannot affect	 thepower of the Appellate Authority to make its own  selection,or affect the validity of the order passed by it.The  High  Court, in its several judgments and	orders,	 hasscrutinized,  in  great	 detail, the orders  passed  by	 theExcise	Authorities under the Act.  We have not	 thought  itfit to examine the record or the orders below in any detail,because, in our opinion, it is not the function of the	HighCourt  or  of this Court to do so.  The	 jurisdiction  underArt.  226 of the Constitution is limited to seeing that	 thejudicial  or  quasi-judicial  tribunals	 or   administrativebodies	exercising  quasijudicial powers,  do  not  exercisetheir powers in excess of their statutory jurisdiction,	 butcorrectly administer the law within the ambit of the statutecreating  them or entrusting those functions to	 them.	 TheAct has created its own hierarchy of officers and  Appellateauthorities, as indicated above, to administer the law.	  Solong  as  those Authorities function within the	 letter	 andspirit	of the law, the High Court has no concern  with	 themanner	in which those powers have been exercised.   In	 theinstant	 cases, the High Court appears to have	gone  beyondthe  limits  of its powers under Arts. 226 and	227  of	 theConstitution.In one of the cases, the High Court has observed that thoughit could have interfered by issuing a writ under Art. 226 ofthe  Constitution,  they would be content to  utilize  theirpowers	of  judicial superintendence under Art. 227  of	 theConstitution  vide  its	 judgment dated July  31,  1957,  inappeals	 relating to Murmuria shop (Civil Appeals  Nos.	 669and 670 of 1957).  In exercise of that power, the High Courtset aside the order of the Appellate Authority, and directedit  to re-hear the appeal 'according to law in the light  ofthe principles indicated in this judgment'.1272A  Constitution	 Bench of this Court examined the  scope  ofArt. 227 of the Constitution in the case of Waryam Singh andanother	 v. Amarnath a-rid another (1).	 This Court, in	 thecourse	of its judgment, made the following observations  atp. 571 :" This power of superintendence conferred by article 227 is,as pointed out by Harries C. J. in Dalmia Jain Airways	Ltd.v. Sukumar Mukherjee (2), to be exercised most sparingly andonly  in appropriate cases in order to keep the	 SubordinateCourts	within	the bounds of their authority  and  not	 forcorrecting mere errors."It is, thus, clear that the powers of judicial	interferenceunder  Art. 227 of the Constitution with orders of  judicialor  quasi-judicial nature, are not greater than	 the  powersunder  Art.  226 of the Constitution.  Under Art.  226,	 thepower  of  interference may extend to quashing	an  impugnedorder on the ground of a mistake apparent on the face of therecord.	  But under Art. 227 of the Constitution, the  powerof  interference  is  limited to seeing	 that  the  tribunalfunctions  within  the	limits	of  its	 authority.   Hence,interference by the High Court, in these cases, either underArt. 226 or 227 of the Constitution, was not justified.After  having dealt with the common arguments more  or	lessapplicable  to	all the cases, it remains  to  consider	 thespecial points raised on behalf of the respondents in  CivilAppeal	No.  672 of 1957, relating to the  Tinsukia  countryspirit shop.  It was strenuously argued that the appeal	 wasincompetent in view of the fact that the rule issued by	 theHigh Court, was still pending, and that this Court does	 notordinarily,  entertain	an appeal against  an  interlocutoryorder.	 It  is true that this Court does not  interfere  incases  which  have not been decided by the High	 Court,	 butthis  case has some extraordinary features  which  attractedthe  notice of this Court when special leave to	 appeal	 wasgranted.   As  already	stated, the  shop  in  question	 wassettled with the appellants by the Excise Commissioner,	 andhis   order   was  upheld  by	the   Appellate	  Authority.Accordingly, the appellants,(1) [1954] S.C.R. 565.	      (2) A.I. R. (195i) Cal. 193.1273had been put in possession of the shop on June 7, 1957.	 TheHigh  Court, while issuing the rule, passed an order on	 thestay  application,  which, as already  indicated,  had	beenmisunderstood  by the District Excise authorities,  and	 theappellants were dispossessed and the respondents I and 2 putback in possession, without any authority of law.  This	 wasa flagrant interference with the appellants' rights  arisingout  of the settlement made in their favour by	the  highestrevenue	 authorities.  The High Court had not and could	 nothave authorized the dispossession of the persons  rightfullyin  possession	of the shop.  The  appellants  brought	thisflagrant  abuse	 of power to the notice of  the	 High  Courtseveral times, but the High Court felt unduly constrained topermit the wrong to continue.  We heard the learned  counselfor  the respondents at great length as to whether he  couldjustify the continuance of this undesirable and	 unfortunatestate  of  affairs.   It  has  to  be  remembered  that	 theappellants,  as	 a result of fortuitous	 circumstances,	 hadbeen deprived of the possession of the shop during the	bestpart  of the financial year 1956-57 The appellants had	beendeprived  of  the fruits of their hard-won  victory  in	 therevenue	 courts, without any authority of law, and the	HighCourt  failed  to  right the wrong  in	time,  though  movedseveral	  times.   In  these  circumstances,  we  found	  itnecessary  to  hear both the parties on the  merits  of	 theorders	passed	by  the	 Commissioner  of  Excise  and	 theAppellate  Authority, in favour of the	appellants,  againstwhich,	the respondents had obtained a rule.   After  havingheard  both  sides, we have come to the conclusion  that  nogrounds	 have  been made out for interference  by  the	HighCourt,	under  its  powers under arts. 226 and	227  of	 theConstitution.  This case shares the common fate of the othercases  before us, of having run through the entire gamut  ofthe  hierarchy	created under the Act, read along  with	 theamending  Act and the rules thereunder.	 We do not find	 anygrounds in the orders of the Excise Authorities which  couldattract	 the  supervisory jurisdiction of  the	High  Court,there  being  no error of law apparent on the  face  of	 therecord,1274or a defect of jurisdiction in the Authorities whose  ordershave  been impugned in the- High Court.	 We would,  however,like  to  make	it clear that we are  interfering  with	 theinterlocutory  order passed by the High Court in  this	casebecause	 of  its unusual and exceptional  features.   It  isclear  that  our decision on the main points  urged  in	 theother appeals necessarily leads to the inference that,	evenif  all	 the allegations made by the  respondents  in  theirpetition  before the Assam High Court are accepted as  true,there would be no case whatever for issuing a rule.  Indeed,the respondent found it difficult to resist the	 appellant'sargument  that,	 if the other appeals were  allowed  on	 thegeneral contentions raised by the appellants, the  dismissalof  his	 petition  before the Assam High Court	would  be  aforegone  conclusion.	It  is	because	 of  these   specialcircumstances  that  we have decided to interfere  with	 theinterlocutory  order  in  this	case  in  the  interests  ofjustice.As  a  result of these considerations, the appeals  must  beallowed	 and  the  orders passed by the High  Court  in	 theseveral	 cases,	 set aside.  On the question  of  costs,  wedirect	that the appellants in each case, should  get  theircosts  here and in the High Court, except the  appellant  inCivil  Appeal  No.  670, who has failed on  the	 main  pointraised on his behalf, and who, therefore, must bear his	 owncosts.		      Appeals allowed.1275