PETITIONER:HARTWELL PRESCOTT SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UTTAR PRADESH GOVERNMENTAND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:19/09/1957BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  886		  1958 SCR  509ACT:       Government  Servant-Temporary appointment-Officiating  in  a       higher  post--Order of Reversion-Whether reduction  in  rank       Petitioner to establish reversion by way of Penalty-Termina-       tion  of service according to conditions of  service  rules-       Validity--Whether   dismissal  or  removal-Constitution	 of       India, Art. 311.HEADNOTE:       The appellant who was holding a post in a temporary capacity       in  the Subordinate Agriculture Service, Uttar Pradesh,	and       was  shown  in the gradation list as on probation,  was	ap-       pointed	with the approval of the Public Service	 Commission       of  the	United Provinces, to officiate in Class 11  of	the       said service as a Divisional Superintendent of  Agriculture.       After holding the said officiating post for about 10  years,       he was reverted to his original temporary appointment in the       face of his protest.  Thereafter his services were terminat-       ed by giving one month's notice under rule 25, clause (4) of       the Subordinate Agriculture Service Rules.       The  appellant contended that Art. 311 Of  the  Constitution       applied	even  to a temporary appointment because it  was  a       civil  post held under the Government; that the	termination       of service amounted to dismissal, or removal from his  post,       as it conveyed an imputation of inefficiency and unsatisfac-       tory  work, and that the order of reversion to his  original       post  amounted to a reduction in rank, as it was by  way	 of       penalty.       Held, that reversion from a temporary post held by a  person       does  not  per se amount to reduction in	 rank.	 To  decide       whether the reversion is a reduction in rank, the post  held       must be of a substantive rank; and further it must be estab-       lished that the order of reversion was by way of penalty.       Termination  of	service	 does not amount  to  dismissal	 or       removal	from service within the meaning of Art. 311 of	the       Constitution,  if it is in accordance with the terms of	the       conditions  of  service.	  In principle there  is  no  clear       distinction between the termination of services under the  "       terms  of  a contract", and that in accordance  with  the  "       terms of conditions of service."       Satish  Chandra Anand v. Union of India, [1953] S.C.R.  688,       and Shyam Lal v. The State of Uttar Pradesh, [1955] i S.C.R.       26, referred to.JUDGMENT:       CIVIL, APPELLATE JURISDICTION :		      Civil Appeal       No. 100 of 1957.       510       Appeal  by special leave from the judgment and  order  dated       October	21,  1955,  of the Allahabad High  Court  in  Civil       Miscellaneous Application 0. J. No. 120 of 1954. -       S.   N.	Andley,	 Rameshwar Nath and P. L.  Vohra,  for	the       appellants.       G.C.  Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent. 1957.   Sep-       tember  19.  The following Judgment of the Court was  deliv-       ered by       IMAM,  J.-This  is an appeal by special	leave  against	the       decision	  of  the  Allahabad  High  Court  dismissing	the       appellant's application under Art. 226 of the Constitution.       From the affidavits filed in the High Court by the  Personal       Assistant  to the Director of Agriculture of the	 Government       of Uttar Pradesh and the appellant, it would appear that the       appellant  was  appointed from time to time in  a  temporary       capacity	 to  the Subordinate Agricultural  Service  of	the       Uttar Pradesh Government by the Director of Agriculture.	 He       served in that service during the periods detailed below:-       (a) In	 Group II of the Subordinate Agricultural Service:	       (i)    From November 16, 1936 to March 18, 1937.	       (ii)   From April 1, 1937 to June 29, 1937.	       (iii)  From August 9, 1937 to December 31, 1937.	       (iv)   From January 6, 1938 to February 22, 1943.       (b)  In Group I of the Subordinate Agricultural Service	       From  February 23, 1943 to April 24, 1944. While	 he       was  still  in the Subordinate Agricultural Service  he	was       appointed to officiate in the United Provinces  Agricultural       Service Class 11 as a Divisional Superintendent of  Agricul-       ture  with effect from April 25, 1944, with the approval	 of       the  Public Service Commission of the United Provinces.	 He       served in       511       Class  II of the United Provinces Agricultural Service in  a       temporary capacity for about ten years when he was  reverted       to his original appointment in the Subordinate  Agricultural       Service	by an order of the Uttar Pradesh  Government  dated       May 3, 1954.  The appellant protested against his  reversion       and  handed  over charge on May 16, 1954 and went  on  leave       until  October  2, 1954.	 In the meanwhile, a  notice  dated       September 13, 1954, terminating the appellant's services	 in       the  Subordinate Agricultural Service was issued to  him	 by       the  Director  of Agriculture.  The notice purported  to	 be       under  r. 25 cl. (4) of the Subordinate Agriculture  Service       Rules.	This  notice stated that the  appellant's  services       would not be required after the expiry of one month from the       date  of	 the issue of the order terminating  his  services.       The  appellant  challenged  the validity	 of  the  aforesaid       orders  of reversion and termination of his  services.	The       High Court in dismissing his application came to the conclu-       sion  that the appellant had not been dismissed	or  removed       from  service and that Art. 311 of the Constitution did	not       apply  in  the circumstances of the case.   The	High  Court       dismissed  an  application filed by the	appellant  for	the       issue  of  a  certificate that the case was a  fit  one	for       appeal to this Court.       It was conceded before us on behalf of the appellant that at       no time was he confirmed in any post either in the  Subordi-       nate  Agricultural Service or in the United Provinces  Agri-       cultural	 Service Class 11.  In our opinion, the finding	 of       the  High Court that the appellant had failed  to  establish       that  he was confirmed as a member of the Subordinate  Agri-       cultural Service, based upon the materials before it, was  a       correct finding.	 The further finding of the High Court that       the appellant's contention that he had been absorbed in	the       permanent cadre of the United Provinces Agricultural Service       had  not been substantiated appears to us also to be a  cor-       rect finding upon the materials on the record.       In considering the case of the appellant we must proceed	 on       the basis that at no time was the appellant appointed perma-       nently either to the United Provinces       512       Agricultural  Service  or to  the  Subordinate  Agricultural       Service.	  At  all times he was temporarily  employed.	Mr.       Andley's contention on behalf of the appellant had been that       Art.  311  of the Constitution applied even to  a  temporary       appointment  because the appellant held a civil	post  under       the Government of the State of Uttar Pradesh although he may       not  have  been a member of a Civil Service of  that  State.       The order terminating his services amounted to dismissal	 or       removal from the post as it conveyed an imputation of  inef-       ficiency and unsatisfactory work and the order reverting him       from  the post held by him in the United Provinces  Agricul-       tural Service to his original appointment in the Subordinate       Agricultural Service amounted to a reduction in his rank, as       it was by way of penalty.  The mandatory provisions of  Art.       311  not	 having	 been complied with  the  aforesaid  orders       passed against the appellant were illegal.  The question for       consideration, therefore, is whether the orders	terminating       the  appellant's services and reverting him to his  original       appointment  in the Subordinate Agricultural Service  amount       to removal, dismissal or reduction in rank within the  mean-       ing of the provisions of Art. 311 of the Constitution.       The decisions of this Court in Satish Chandra Anand v.  -The       Union  of India (1) and in Shyam Lal v. The State  of  Uttar       Pradesh (2) clearly establish that termination of the  serv-       ices of a person employed by the Government does not  amount       in  all cases to dismissal or removal from service.  In	the       former case the termination was in accordance with the terms       of  the	contract and in the latter case it was	by  way	 of       compulsory  retirement of a member of a Service	under  Art.       465A of the Civil Service Regulations.  This Court held that       in  neither  case  the termination of the  services  of	the       person  concerned  amounted  to dismissal  or  removal  from       service within the meaning of Art. 311 of the  Constitution.       In  the present case the appellant was employed in a  tempo-       rary  capacity in the Subordinate Agricultural  Service	and       was shown in the Gradation List as on probation.	 His condi-       tions of service       (1) [1953] S.C.R. 655.       (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 26.       513       were governed by the Subordinate Agriculture Service  Rules.       Rule  25(4) of these Rules permits the Director of  Agricul-       ture  to terminate the services of a person on probation	 by       giving  him  one months notice if that person has  not  made       sufficient  use of his opportunities or if he has  otherwise       failed  to  give	 satisfaction.	 The  termination  of	the       appellant's  services  under  r. 25(4) does  not	 amount	 to       dismissal or removal from service within the meaning of Art.       311 as it was in accordance with the terms of the conditions       of  service applicable to the appellant.	 In  principle,	 we       cannot see any clear distinction between the termination	 of       the  services  of  a person under the terms  of	a  contract       governing him and the termination of his services in accord-       ance with the terms of his conditions of service.  The order       complained against did not contravene the provisions of Art.       311 and was therefore a valid order.       Reversion  from a temporary post held by a person  does	not       per  se	amount to reduction in rank because  the  temporary       post  held  by  him is not his substantive  rank.   For	the       purposes of this appeal it is unnecessary to decide in  what       circumstances a reversion would be regarded as reduction	 in       rank as the appellant has not established as a fact that the       order of reversion passed against him was by way of a penal-       ty.   The order of reversion, therefore, did not	 contravene       the provisions of Art. 311 and was a valid order.       The appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.				       Appeal dismissed.       514