PETITIONER:SHRI RAM KRISHNA DALMIA	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI JUSTICE S. R. TENDOLKAR & OTHERS(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/03/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  538		  1959 SCR  279ACT:       Commission  of Inquiry-Legislation empowering Government	 to       appoint Commission-Constitutionality-If	violates  guarantee       of   equality   before  the  law-Notification   setting	 up       Commission  and conferring Powers there upon Legality  of-If       ultra  vires  the  Act Whether  Commission  usurps  judicial       functions-Commissions of Enquiry Act, 1952 (LX of 1952),	 s.       3-Constitution  of   India,  Arts.  14  and  246	 :  Seventh       Schedule, Entry 94, List I and Entry 45, List III.HEADNOTE:In  exercise of the powers conferred upon it by S. 3 of	 theCommissions of Enquiry Act, 1952, the Central Government  bya   notification  dated	 December  11,	1956,  appointed   aCommission of Inquiry to inquire into and report in  respectof  certain companies mentioned in the Schedule attached  tothe notification and in respect of the nature and extent  ofthe control and interest which certain persons named in	 thenotification exercised over these companies.  By  subsequentnotifications the Central Government made all the provisionsof  sub-ss.  (2),  (3),	 (4) and (5) Of	 s.  5	Of  the	 Actapplicable  to the Commission and fixed a period Of 2  yearsfrom  February	11,  1957, as the period  within  which	 theCommission  was	 to exercise its function and  to  make	 itsreport.	  The  four persons named filed	 three	applicationsunder  Art. 226 of the Constitution before the	Bombay	HighCourt  questioning  the	 validity  of the  Act	and  of	 thenotification  and praying for writs for quashing  the  same.The  High Court dismissed the applications and ordered	thatthe  said notification was legal and valid except as to	 thelast  part of cl. 10 thereof which empowered the  Commissionto recommend the action which should be taken as and by	 wayof securing redress or punishment or to act as a  preventivein  future cases.  The petitioners as well as the  Union  ofIndia filed appeals :Held,  that the Act wag' valid and intra vires and that	 thenotification was also valid excepting the words " as and  byway  of securing redress or punishment " in cl.	 10  thereofwhich went beyond the Act.The  Act was enacted by Parliament under entry 94 of List  Iand  entry  45 of List III of the Seventh  Schedule  of	 theConstitution  which relate to inquiries for the purposes  ofany  of	 the  matters  in List I and in	 Lists	11  and	 IIIrespectively.  The inquiry which may be set up by a law madeunder these entries is not limited,280in its scope and ambit, to future legislative purposes only.Such  a law may also be for administrative purposes and	 thescope of the inquiry under such a law will cover all matterswhich  may  properly  be  regarded  as	ancillary  to	suchinquiries.The Act does not delegate to the Government any arbitrary oruncontrolled  power  and  does not offend  Art.	 14  Of	 theConstitution.  The discretion given to the Government to setup a Commission of Inquiry is guided by the policy laid downin  the	 Act that the executive action is to be	 taken	onlywhen  there  exists a definite matter of  public  importanceinto which an inquiry is necessary.Kathi  Raning Rawat v. State of Saurashtra, [1952] S. C.  R.435, applied.The Commission is merely to investigate, record its findingsand  make  its	recommendations which  are  not	 enforceableproprio vigore.	 The inquiry or report cannot be looked uponas judicial inquiry in the sense of its being an exercise ofjudicial  function  properly  so  called  and  consequently-Parliament or the Government cannot be said to have  usurpedthe functions of the judiciary.The notification was well within the powers conferred on theGovernment  by	s. 3 Of the Act and did not  go	 beyond	 theprovisions of the Act.	The conduct of an individual  personor  company  or a group of individual persons  or  companiesmay,  in certain circumstances, become a definite matter  ofpublic importance within the meaning Of s. 3(i) and call foran  inquiry.   Besides, s. 3 authorises	 the  Government  toappoint a Commission. of Inquiry not only for the purpose ofmaking	 an  inquiry  into  a  definite	 matter	 of   publicimportance  but	 also  for the purpose	of  performing	suchfunctions as may be specified in the notification.It  has not been established that the petitioners and  theircompanies have been arbitrarily singled out for the  purposeof  hostile and discriminatory treatment and subjected to  aharassing  and oppressive inquiry.  In matters of this	kindthe Government has of necessity to act upon the	 informationavailable to it.  It is the best judge of the reliability ofthe  source of the information and if it acts in good  faithand  honestly  comes  to the conclusion	 that  the  act	 andconduct	 of  the  petitioners  and  the	 affairs  of   theircompanies constitute a definite matter of public  importancethe  Court will be slow to adjudge the action to be bad	 andillegal.   The	bare  possibility that	the  powers  may  bemisused	 or  abused cannot Per se make the power  bad.	 Thepower  having been entrusted to the Central  Government	 andnot  to any petty official, abuse of power cannot be  easilyassumed.In determining whether there is any intelligible differentiaon  the basis of, which the petitioners and their  companieshave  been  grouped together it is permissible to  look	 notonly at the facts appearing in the notification but also thefacts  brought to the notice of the Court  upon	 affidavits.The facts in the present case281afford	 sufficient   support	to   the   presumption	  ofconstitutionality  of the notification and  the	 petitionershave failed to discharge the onus which was on them to provethat other people or companies, similarly situated have beenleft  out and that the petitioners and their companies	havebeen singled out for discriminatory and hostile treatment.The  recommendations  of the Commission of  Inquiry  are  ofgreat importance to the Government in order to enable it  tomake  up its mind as to what legislative  or  administrativemeasures should be adopted to eradicate the evil found or toimplement the beneficial objects it has in view.  There	 canbe   no	 objection  to	the  Commission	  recommending	 theimposition  of	some form of punishment which will,  in	 itsopinion, be sufficiently deterrent to delinquents in future.But  the Commission cannot be asked to make  recommendationsfor taking any action " as and by way of securing redress orpunishment " in respect of wrongs already done or  committedas this is the function of a Court of law.Even though the original notification appointing the Commis-sion did not fix the time within which the Commission was tocomplete its report the Government could validly do so by  asubsequent notification.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals 'Nos. 455 to 457and 656 to 658 of 1957.Appeals from the judgment and order dated April 29, 1957, ofthe  Bombay High Court in Misc.	 Applications Nos. 48 to  50of 1957.G.   S. Pathak, S. K. Kapur, P. N. Bhagwati and Ganpat	Rai,for  the appellant in C. A. No. 455 of 1957 & respondent  inC. A. No. 656 of 1957.Sachin	Choudhry, R. J. Joshi, J. B.  Dadachanji,  RameshwarNath  and St N. Andley, for the appellants in C.  As.	Nos.456 & 457 of 1957 and respondents inC.   As. Nos. 657 & 658 of 1957.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General for India, G. N.  Joshi,K.  H. Bhabha and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 4  in  C.As.   Nos. 455 to 457 of 1957 and appellant in C. As.	Nos.656 to 658 of 1957.1958.  March 28.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS  C. J.-These six several appeals are directed against  acommon judgment and order pronounced on36282April 29, 1957, by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Courtin  three several Miscellaneous Applications under Art.	 226of  the Constitution, namely, No. 48 of 1957 filed  by	ShriRam Krishna Dalmia (the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 455 of1957), No. 49 of 1957 by Shri Shriyans Prasad Jain and	ShriSital Prasad Jain (the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 456 of1957)  and No. 50 of 1957 by Shri Jai Dayal Dalmia and	ShriShanti	Prasad Jain (the appellants in Civil Appeal No.	 457of   1957).    By  those  Miscellaneous	  Applications	 thepetitioners  therein prayed for an appropriate direction  ororder  under  Art.  226	 for  quashing	and  ,setting  asidenotification  No.  S. R. 0. 2993 dated ]December  11,  1956,issued by the Union of India in exercise of powers conferredon it by s. 3 of the Commissions of Enquiry Act (LX of 1952)and  for other reliefs.	 Rules were issued and the Union  ofIndia appeared and showed cause.  By the aforesaid  judgmentand order the High Court discharged the rules and  dismissedthe applications and ordered that the said notification	 waslegal  and  valid  except as to the last part  of  cl.	(10)thereof	 from the words " and the action" to the words "  infuture	cases " and directed the Commission not	 to  proceedwith  the  inquiry  to the extent that	it  related  to	 theaforesaid  last part of cl. (10) of -the said  notification.The Union of India has filed three several appeals,  namely,Nos.   656,  657  and  658  of	1957,  in  the	said   threeMiscellaneous Applications complaining against that part  ofthe  said judgment and order of the Bombay High Court  whichadjudged the last part of el. (10) to be invalid.The  Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (hereinafter  referredto  as	the Act), received the assent of  the  President  onAugust 14, 1952, and was thereafter brought into force by  anotification issued by the Central Government under s. 1 (3)of  the Act.  As its long title states, the Act is one "  toprovide	 for the appointment of Commissions of	Inquiry	 andfor vesting such Commissions with certain powers ". Sub-sec-tion (1) of s. 3, omitting the proviso not material for	 ourpresent	 purpose, provides:The appropriate Government may, if it is of			    283opinion	 that  it  is necessary so to do, and  shall,  if  aresolution  in	this behalf is passed by the House  of	the,People	or, as the case may be, the Legislative Assembly  ofthe State, by notification in the Official Gazette,  appointa Commission of Inquiry for the purpose of making an inquiryinto any definite matter of public importance and performingsuch  functions and within such time as may be specified  inthe notification, and the Commission so appointed shall makethe Inquiry and perform the functions accordingly."Under sub-s. (2) of that section the Commission may  consistof one or more members and where the Commission consists  ofmore  than  one member one of them may be appointed  as	 theChairman  thereof.  Section 4 vests in	the  Commission	 thepowers	of a civil court while trying a suit under the	Codeof  Civil  Procedure  in  respect  of  the  several  mattersspecified   therein,   namely,	 summoning   and   enforcingattendance  of	any  person  and  examining  him  on   oath,requiring   discovery  and  production	of   any   document,receiving evidence on affidavits, requisitioning any  publicrecord	or copy thereof from any court or  officer,  issuingcommissions  for examination of witnesses or  documents	 andany other matter which may be prescribed. Section 5 empowersthe  appropriate  Government,  by  a  notification  in	 theOfficial  Gazette,  to confer on the  Commission  additionalpowers	as provided in all or any of the sub-ss.  (2),	(3),(4)  and  (5) of that section.	Section 6 provides  that  nostatement made by a person in the course of giving  evidencebefore	the  commission	 shall subject him to,	or  be	usedagainst	 him in, any civil or criminal proceeding  except  aprosecution  for  giving false evidence	 by  such  statementprovided that the statement is 'made in reply to a  questionwhich  he  is  required by the Commission to  answer  or  isrelevant  to  the  subject  matter  of	the  inquiry.	 Theappropriate  Government may under s. 7 issue a	notificationdeclaring that the Commission shall cease to exist from suchdate as may be specified therein.  By s. 8 the Commission isempowered,  subject  to	 any  rules that  may  be  made,  toregulate  its own procedure including the time and place  ofits284sittings  and may act notwithstanding the temporary  absenceof  any	 member or the existence of any	 vacancy  among	 itsmembers.    Section   9	 provides  for	indemnity   to	 theappropriate  Government,  the members of the  Commission  orother  persons acting under their directions in	 respect  ofanything which is done or intended to be done in good  faithin  pursuance of the Act.  The rest of the sections aye	 notmaterial for the purpose of these appeals.In exercise of the powers conferred on it by s. 3 of the Actthe  Central  Government published in the Gazette  of  Indiadated  December	 11, 1956, a notification in  the  followingterms:		    MINISTRY OF FINANCE	      (Department of Economic Affairs)			   ORDERNew Delhi, the 11th December, 1956S.   R.	 O. 2993-Whereas it has been made to appear  to	 theCentral Government that:(1)  a	large  number  of  companies  and  some	 firms	werepromoted and/or controlled by Sarvashri Ramakrishna  Dalmia,Jaidayal  Dalmia, Shanti Prasad Jain, Sriyans  Prasad  Jain,Shital Prasad Jain or some one or more of them and by othersbeing  either relatives or employees of the said  person  orpersons, closely connected with the said persons;(2)  large  amounts were subscribed by the investing  publicin the shares of some of these companies;(3)  there  have  been gross irregularities  (which  may  inseveral	 respects and materials amount to  illegalities)  inthe  management of such companies including manipulation  ofthe accounts and unjustified transfers and use of funds	 andassets;(4)  the moneys subscribed by the investing public were in aconsiderable  measure  used  not in  the  interests  of	 thecompanies  concerned but contrary to their interest and	 forthe  ultimate  personal benefit of those in  control  and/ormanagement; and(5)  the   investing  public  have  as	a  result   sufferedconsiderable losses.285And  Whereas the Central Government is of the  opinion	thatthere should be a full inquiry into these matters which	 areof  definite public importance both by reason of  the  graveconsequences  which appear to have ensued to  the  investingpublic and also to determine such measures as may be  deemednecessary in order to prevent a recurrence thereof;Now,  therefore,  in  exercise of the  powers  conferred  bysection	 3  of	the Commissions of Inquiry Act	(No.  60  of1952),	the Central Government hereby appoints a  Commissionof Inquiry consisting of the following persons, namely :Shri  Justice  S. R. Tendolkar, Judge of the High  Court  atBombay, Chairman.Shri  N.  R. Modi of Messrs A. F. Ferguson &  o.,  CharteredAccountants, Member.Shri S. C. Chaudhuri, Commissioner of Income-tax, Member.1.The  Commission  shall inquire into and report on  and  inrespect of:(1)  The  administration  of the affairs  of  the  companiesspecified in the schedule hereto;(2)  The  administration  of  the  affairs  of	such   othercompanies and firms as the Commission may during the  courseof its enquiry find to be companies or firms connected	withthe companies referred to in the schedule and whose  affairsought  to  be investigated and inquired into  in  connectionwith  or arising out of the inquiry into the affairs of	 thecompanies specified in the schedule hereto;(3)The	nature	and  extent  of	 the  control,	direct	 andindirect, exercised over such companies and firms or any  ofthem by the aforesaid Sarvashri Ram Krishna Dalmia, JaidayalDalmia,	 Shanti	 Prasad	 Jain, Sriyans	Prasad	Jain,  theirrelatives, employees and persons connected with them;(4)The	total amount of the subscription obtained  from	 theinvesting public -and the amount subscribed by the aforesaidpersons	 and the extent to which the funds and	assets	thusobtained   or	acquired   were	  misused,   misapplied	  ormisappropriated;(5)  The extent and nature of the investments by286and/or loans to and/or the use of the funds or assets by andtransfer of funds between the companies aforesaid;(6)The consequences or results of such investments,    loanstransfers and/or use of funds and assets ;(7)The	reasons	 or  motives  of  such	investments,   loanstransfers  and use and whether there was  any  justificationfor  the same and whether the same were made bona  fide,  inthe interests of the companies concerned ;(8)  The  extent  of the losses suffered  by  the  investingpublic,	 how  far the losses were avoidable and	 what  stepswere  taken by those in control and/or management  to  avoidthe losses;(9)  The  nature and extent, of the personal gains  made  byany  person  or persons or any group or	 groups	 of  personswhether	 herein named or not by reason of or through his  ortheir  connection with or control over any such	 company  orcompanies;(10) Any  irregularities  frauds  or breaches  of  trust  oraction	in  disregard  of  honest  commercial  practices  orcontravention  of any law (except contraventions in  respectof which criminal proceedings are pending in a Court of Law)in  respect  of the companies and firms	 whose	affairs	 areinvestigated  by  the  Commission  which  ma  come  to	 theknowledge  of  the Commission and the action  which  in	 theopinion	 of the Commission should be taken as and by way  ofsecuring redress or punishment or to act as a preventive  infuture cases.(11) The measures which in the opinion of the Commission arenecessary  in  order  to ensure in the future  the  due	 andProper	administration of the funds and assets of  companiesand  firms  in	the  interests	of  the	 investing   public.				 SCHEDULE1.   Dalmia Jain Airways Ltd.2.   Dalmia  Jain  Aviation Ltd., (now known as	 Asia  UdyogLtd.)3.   Lahore Electric Supply Company Ltd., (now known   asSouth Asia Industries Ltd.)4. Sir Shapurji Broacha Mills Ltd.2875.   Madhowji Dharamsi Manufacturing Company Ltd.6.   Allen Berry and Co. Ltd.7.   Bharat Union Agencies Ltd.8.   Dalmia Cement and Paper Marketing Company Ltd.,   (nowknown as Delhi Glass Works Ltd.)9.   Vastra  Vyavasaya	Ltd.  Ordered  that  the  Order	  bepublished  in the Gazette of India for	public	information.(No.  F. 107 (18INS/56)).				     H.M. Patel				     Secretary.It  should  be noted that the above   notification  did	 notspecify the time within which the Commission was to completethe inquiry and make its report.On  January 9, 1957, the Central Government  issued  another-notification  providing that all the provisions of  sub-ss.(2),  (3),  (4),  and  (5)  of s.  5  should  apply  to	 theCommission.   As the notification of December 11, 1956,	 didnot specify the time within which the Commission was to makeits  report,  the Central Government on February  11,  1957,issued	a third notification specifying two years from	thatdate  as  the time within which the  Commission	 of  Inquiryshould	exercise the functions conferred on it and make	 itsreport.	  On February 12, 1957, three several  MiscellaneousApplications  were filed under art. 226 of the	Constitutionquestioning  the  validity of the Act and  the	notificationdated December 11, 1956, on diverse grounds and praying	 fora writ or order for quashing the same.It  will be convenient to advert to a few  minor  objectionsurged  before us on behalf of the petitioners in support  oftheir  appeals before we come to deal with  their  principaland  major  contentions.  The first objection  is  that	 thenotification  has  gone beyond the Act.	 It is	pointed	 outthat  the Act, by s. 3, empowers the appropriate  Governmentin certain eventualities to appoint a Commission of  Inquiryfor  the  purpose  of making an inquiry	 into  any  definitematter	of public importance and for no other purpose.	 Thecontention is that the conduct of an individual person288or company cannot possibly be a matter of public  importanceand far less a definite matter of that kind.  We are  unableto  accept  this argument as  correct.	 Widespread  floods,famine and pestilence may quite easily be a definite  matterof  public importance urgently calling for an inquiry so  asto  enable  the	 Government to	take  appropriate  steps  toprevent	  their	 recurrence  in	 future.   The	conduct	  ofvillagers  in  cutting the bunds for taking water  to  theirfields	during	the dry season may cause floods	 during	 therainy  season  and we can see no reason	 why  such  unsocialconduct of villagers of certain villages thus causing floodsshould	not  be	 regarded as a	definite  matter  of  publicimportance.  The failure of a big bank resulting in the lossof the life savings of a multitude of men of moderate  meansis certainly a definite matter of public importance but	 theconduct of the. persons in charge -and management of such  abank which brought about its collapse is equally a  definitematter of public importance.  Widespread dacoities in parti-cular  parts of the country is, no doubt, a definite  matterof  public importance but we see no reason why the  conduct,activities  and	 modes operandi of  particular	dacoits	 andthugs notorious for their cruel depredations. should not  beregarded  as definite matters of public importance  urgentlyrequiring  a  sifting inquiry.	It is needless	to  multiplyinstances.   In	 each  case  the question  is:	is  there  adefinite  matter  of public importance which  calls  for  aninquiry	 ?  We	see no warrant for the	proposition  that  adefinite  matter of public importance must necessarily	meanonly  some matter involving the public benefit or  advantagein  the	 abstract, e. g., public health, sanitation  or	 thelike or some public evil or prejudice, e. g., floods, famineor pestilence or the like.  Quite conceivably the conduct ofan  individual	person or company or a group  of  individualpersons or companies may assume such a dangerous  proportionand  may so prejudicially affect or threaten to	 affect	 thepublic well-being as to make such conduct a definite  matterof  public importance urgently calling for a  full  inquiry.Besides,  s. 3 itself authorises the appropriate  Governmentto appoint a Commission289of  Inquiry  not only for the purpose of making	 an  inquiryinto a definite matter of public importance but also for thepurpose of performing such functions as, may be specified inthe  notification.   Therefore,	 the  notification  is	wellwithin the powers conferred on the appropriate Government bys. 3 of the Act and it cannot be questioned on the ground ofits going beyond the provisions of the Act.Learned counsel for the petitioners immediately replies thatin  the	 event of its being held that  the  notification  iswithin	the terms of the Act, the Act itself is ultra  viresthe  Constitution.   The validity of the Act  is  called  inquestion in two ways.  In the first place it is said that itwas beyond the legislative competency of Parliament to enacta law conferring such a wide sweep of powers.  It is pointedout  that  Parliament  enacted the Act in  exercise  of	 thelegislative  powers  conferred	on it by  Art.	246  of	 theConstitution  read with entry 94 in List I and entry  45  inList  III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	 Thematters enumerated in entry 94 in List 1, omitting the wordsnot necessary for our purpose, are " inquiries.........	 forthe purpose of any of the matters in this List ", and  thoseenumerated  in	entry  45 in List III,	again  omitting	 theunnecessary  words,  are  "  inquiries............  for	 thepurposes of any of the matters specified in List II or	List111.   " Confining himself to the entries in so far as	theyrelate to " inquiries ", learned counsel for the petitionersurges  that  Parliament	 may  make a  law  with	 respect  toinquiries  but	cannot	under  these  entries  make  a	 lawconferring any power to perform any function other than	 thepower  to hold an inquiry.  He concedes that,  according  tothe  well recognised rule of construction of the  provisionsof a Constitution, the legislative heads should be construedvery  liberally	 and  that  it	must  be  assumed  that	 theConstitution intended to give to the appropriate legislaturenot  only  the	power  to  legislate  with  respect  to	 theparticular  legislative topic but also with respect  to	 allmatters ancillary thereto.  Indeed the very use of the words" with respect to in Art. 246 supports this principle37290of liberal interpretation.  He, however, points out that thelaw, which the appropriate legislature is empowered to	makeunder  these entries must be with respect to  inquiries	 forthe purposes of any of the matters in the relevant lists andit  is urged that the words " for the purpose of "  make  itabundantly  clear that the law with respect to inquiries  tobe  made under these two entries must be for the purpose  offuture	legislation with respect to any of  the	 legislativeheads  in the relevant lists.  In other words, the  argumentis that under these two entries the appropriate	 legislaturemay  make a law authorising the constitution of a  Board  orCommission of Inquiry to inquire into and ascertain facts soas to enable such legislature to undertake legislation	withrespect	 to  any of the legislative topics in  the  relevantlists  to  secure  some public benefit or  advantage  or  toprevent	 some evil or harm befalling the public and  therebyto  protect  the public from the same.	But  if	 an  inquirybecomes	 necessary for, say, administrative purposes, a	 lawwith  respect to such an inquiry cannot be made under  thesetwo entries.  And far less can a law be made with respect toan inquiry into any wrongs alleged to have been committed byan  individual person or company or a group of them for	 thepurpose	  of  punishing	 the  suspected	 delinquent.	Thisargument  has found favour with the High Court, but we	are,with  great respect, unable to accept this view.   To  adoptthis view will mean adding words to the two entries so as toread " inquiries for the purpose of future legislation	withrespect to any of the matters in the List or Lists mentionedtherein.   The	matter,	 however, does	not  rest  here.   Acareful perusal of the language used in entry 45 in List IIIdoes, in our view, clinch the matter.  Entry 45 in List III,which  is  the	Concurrent List, speaks, inter	alia,  of  "inquiries  for the purpose of any of the matters in List  IIor  List  111.	 Under	Art.  246  read	 with  this   entry,Parliament as well as the Legislature of a State may make  alaw  with respect to " inquiries for the purpose of  any  ofthe matters in List II." Parliament, under Art. 246, has  nopower to make a law with respect to any of the291matters	 enumerated in List 11.	 Therefore, when  Parliamentmakes a law under Art. 246 read with., entry 45 in List	 IIIwith  respect to an inquiry for the purposes of any  of	 thematters	 in List 11, such law can never be one	for  inquiryfor  the  purpose of future legislation by  Parliament	withrespect	 to  any  of  those matters  in	 List  11.   ClearlyParliament can make a law for inquiry for the purpose of anyof  the	 matters  in List 11 and none  the  less  so  thoughParliament cannot legislate with respect to such matters andthough none of the State Legislatures wants to Legislate  onsuch matters.  In our opinion, therefore, the law to be madeby  the	 appropriate  legislature with respect	to  the	 twolegislative  entries referred to above may  cover  inquiriesinto  any  aspect of the matters enumerated in	any  of	 thelists mentioned therein and is not confined to those mattersas  mere heads of legislative topic.  Quite conceivably	 thelaw with respect to inquiries for the purpose of any of	 thematters in the lists may also be for administrative purposesand the scope of the inquiry under such a law will cover allmatters which may properly be regarded as ancillary to	suchinquiries.  The words " for the purposes of " indicate	thatthe  scope of the inquiry is not necessarily limited to	 theparticular  or	specific matters enumerated in	any  of	 theentries	 in the list concerned but may extend  to  inquiriesinto  collateral  matters  which may be	 necessary  for	 thepurpose,  legislative  or  otherwise,  of  those  particularmatters.  We are unable, therefore,to hold that the  Inquirywhich  may be set up by a law made under these	two  entriesis,  in	 its scope or ambit, limited to	 future	 legislativepurposes only.Learned counsel then takes us through the different heads ofinquiry	 enumerated in the notification and urges  that	 theinquiry	  is  neither  for  any	 legislative  nor  for	 anyadministrative	purpose,  but is a clear usurpation  of	 thefunctions of the judiciary.  The argument is that Parliamentin  authorising	 the  appointment of a	Commission  and	 theGovernment  in appointing this Commission have arrogated  tothemselves judicial powers which do not, in the very nature292of things, belong to their respective domains which must  bepurely	legislative  and  executive  respectively.   It	  iscontended that Parliament cannot convert itself into a courtexcept	for the rare cases of dealing with breaches  of	 itsown  privileges	 for which it may punish the  delinquent  bycommittal   for	 contempt  or  of  proceedings	by  way	  ofimpeachment.   It cannot, it is urged, undertake to  inquireor  investigate	 into alleged individual wrongs	 or  privatedisputes  nor can it bring the supposed culprit to  book  orgather materials for the purpose of initiating	proceedings,civil  or  criminal, against him, because  such	 inquiry  orinvestigation  is clearly not in aid of legislation.  It  isargued that if a criminal prosecution is to be launched, thepreliminary  investigation  must be held under the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  and  it  should  not  be  open  to	 anylegislature to start investigation on its own and thereby todeprive the citizen of the normal protection afforded to himby the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure.   Thisline of reasoning also found favour with     the High  Courtwhich,	after considering the provisions of the Act and	 theeleven heads of inquiry enumerated in the notification, cameto  the	 conclusion  that  the	last  portion  of  el.	(10)beginning with the words " and the action " and ending	withthe  words ',in future cases" were ultra vires the  Act	 andthat  the  Government  was  not	 competent  to	require	 theCommission  to	hold  any inquiry or make  any	report	withregard	to the matters covered by that portion of cl.  (10),for  such inquiry or. report amounts to a usurpation of	 thejudicial  powers of the Union or the State as the  case	 maybe.While we find ourselves in partial agreement with the actualconclusion  of	the High Court on this point, we  are,	withgreat  respect,	 unable	 to accept  the	 line  of  reasoningadvanced  by learned counsel for the petitioners, which	 hasbeen  accepted by the High Court for more reasons than	one.In the first place neither Parliament nor the Government hasitself undertaken any inquiry at all.  Parliament has made alaw  with  respect  to	inquiry	 and  has  left	 it  to	 theappropriate  Government	 to set up a Commission	 of  Inquiryunder293certain	 circumstances referred to in s. 3 of the Act.	 TheCentral	 Government,  in its turn, has, in exercise  of	 thepowers	conferred on it by the Act, set up this	 Commission.It is, therefore, not correct to say that Parliament or	 theGovernment  itself has undertaken to hold any  inquiry.	  Inthe second place the conclusion that the last portion of cl.(10)  is  bad because it signifies that	 Parliament  or	 theGovernment  had	 usurped  the  functions  of  the  judiciaryappears	 to  us, with respect, to be inconsistent  with	 theconclusion  arrived at in a later part of the judgment	thatas  the Commission can only make recommendations  which	 arenot  enforceable proprio vigore there can be no question  ofusurpation of judicial functions.  As has been stated by theHigh  Court itself in the latter part of its  judgment,	 theonly power that the Commission has is to inquire and make  areport	 and  embody  therein  its   recommendations.	 TheCommission  has	 no power of adjudication in  the  sense  ofpassing	 an order which can be enforced proprio	 vigore.   Aclear distinction must, on the authorities, be drawn betweena  decision  which,  by itself, has no force  and  no  penaleffect and a decision which becomes enforceable	 immediatelyor which may become enforceable by some action being  taken.Therefore, as the Commission we are concerned with is merelyto  investigate and record its findings and  recommendationswithout	 having	 any power to enforce them, the	 inquiry  orreport	cannot be looked upon as a judicial inquiry  in	 thesense of its being an exercise of judicial function properlyso  called  and consequently the question of  usurpation  byParliament  or the Government of the powers of the  judicialorgans	of the Union of India cannot arise on the  facts  ofthis  case  and	 the elaborate discussion  of  the  Americanauthorities founded on the categorical separation of  powersexpressly  provided by and under the  American	Constitutionappears	 to  us,  with	respect,  wholly  inappropriate	 andunnecessary  and we do not feel called upon, on the  presentoccasion,  to  express any opinion on the  question  whethereven  in the absence of a specific provision for  separationof powers in our Constitution, such as there is294under  the  American  Constitution, some  such	division  ofpowers-legislative, executive and judicial-is,	neverthelessimplicit in our Constitution.  In the view we have taken  itis  also not necessary for us to consider whether,  had	 theAct conferred on the appropriate Government power to set  upa Commission of Inquiry with judicial powers, such law couldnot, subject, of course, to the other provisions of the Con-stitution,  be supported as a law made under some  entry  inList I or List III authorising the setting up of courts readwith  these  two  entries, for a  legislation  may  well  befounded on several entries.Learned	 Counsel  appearing  for the  petitioners,  who	 areappellants  in Civil Appeals Nos. 456 and 457 of 1957,	goesas far as to say that while the Commission may find facts onwhich  the  Government	may  take  action,  legislative	  orexecutive,  although he does not concede the latter kind  ofaction to be contemplated, the Commission cannot be asked tosuggest	 any measure, legislative or executive, to be  takenby the appropriate Government.	We are unable to accept	 theproposition  so widely enunciated.  An	inquiry	 necessarilyinvolves  investigation	 into  facts  and  necessitates	 thecollection  of	material  facts from  the  evidence  adducedbefore	or  brought  to the notice of  the  person  or	bodyconducting the inquiry and the recording of its findings  onthose  facts  in  its  report  cannot  but  be	regarded  asancillary  to  the inquiry itself, for the  inquiry  becomesuseless	 unless the findings of the inquiring body are	madeavailable  to the Government which set up the  inquiry.	  Itis,  in our judgment, equally ancillary that the  person  orbody  conducting the inquiry should express its own view  onthe  facts  found  by  it  for	the  consideration  of	 theappropriate  Government in order to enable it to  take	suchmeasure	 as  it may think fit to do.  The whole	 purpose  ofsetting up of a Commission of Inquiry consisting of  expertswill be frustrated and the elaborate process of inquiry willbe deprived of its utility if the opinion and the advice  ofthe  expert body as to the measures the situation  disclosedcalls for cannot be placed before the Government		295for consideration notwithstanding that doing so cannot be tothe prejudice of anybody because it has no force of its own.In  our view the recommendations of a Commission of  Inquiryare of great importance to the Government in order to enableit   to	 make  up  its	mind  as  to  what  legislative	  oradministrative	measures should be adopted to eradicate	 theevil found or to implement the beneficial objects it has  inview.	From this point of view, there can -be no  objectioneven  to the Commission of Inquiry recommending the  imposi-tion of some. form of punishment which will, in its opinion,be  sufficiently  deterrent to delinquents in  future.	 Butseeing that the Commission of Inquiry has no judicial powersand  its  report  will	purely	be  recommendatory  and	 noteffective  proprio  vigore  and the statement  made  by	 anyperson	before the Commission of Inquiry is, under s.  6  ofthe  Act,  wholly  inadmissible in evidence  in	 any  futureproceedings, civil or criminal, there can be no point in theCommission of Inquiry making recommendations for taking	 anyaction	" as and by way of securing redress or punishment  "which,	in agreement with the High Court, we think,  refers,in  the	 context, to wrongs already done or  committed,	 forredress	 or  punishment for such wrongs, if any, has  to  beimposed	 by a court of law, properly constituted  exercisingits  own  discretion on the facts and circumstances  of	 thecase and without being in any way influenced by the view  ofany person or body, howsoever august or high powered it	 maybe.  Having regard to all these considerations it appears tous that only that portion of the last part of cl. (10) whichcalls upon the Commission of Inquiry to make recommendationsabout  the  action to be taken " as and by way	of  securingredress	 or  punishment	 ",  cannot be said  to	 be  at	 allnecessary   for	 or  ancillary	to  the	 purposes   of	 theCommission.  In our view the words in the latter part of thesection,  namely,  " as and by way of  securing	 redress  orpunishment  ", clearly go outside the scope of the  Act	 andsuch provision is not covered by the two legislative entriesand  should, therefore, be deleted.  So deleted	 the  latterportion	 of cl. (10) would read and the action which in	 theopinion of the Commission296should be taken	 to act as a preventive in future cases ".Deletion of the words mentioned above from cl. (10)   raisesthe   question	of  severability.   We	find  ourselves	  insubstantial  agreement	with the reasons given by  the	HighCourt  on  this point and we hold that the efficacy  of	 thenotification  is in no way affected by the deletion  of	 theoffending  words mentioned above and there is no  reason  tothink  that  the  Government  would  not  have	issued	 thenotification without those words.  Those words do not appearto  us to be inextricably wound up with the texture  of	 theentire notification.The  principal ground urged in support of the contention  asto  the	 invalidity of the Act and/or  the  notification  isfounded on Art. 14 of the Constitution.	 In Budhan  Choudhryv.   The  State of Bihar (1) a Constitution Bench  of  sevenJudges	of  this Court at pages 1048-49 explained  the	truemeaning and scope of Art. 14 as follows:" The provisions of Article 14 of the Constitution have comeup  for discussion before this court in a number  of  cases,namely, Chiranjit Lal Choudhuri v. The Union of India (2)  ,The  State, of Bombay v. F. N.Balsara(3),The state  of	westBengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar (4 ), Kathi Baning -Rawat v.	 TheState  of  Saurashtra(5) Lachmandas Kewalram  Ahuja  v.	 TheState  Of Bombay (6), Qasim Razvi v. The State of  Hyderabad(7) and Habeeb Mohamad v. The State of Hyderabad (8). it is,therefore,   not  necessary  to	 enter	upon   any   lengthydiscussion  as	to  the meaning, scope	and  effect  of	 thearticle in question.  It is now well established that  whilearticle	 14  forbids class legislation, it does	 not  forbidreasonable  classification for the purposes of	legislation.In   order,  however,  to  pass	 the  test  of	 permissibleclassification	two  conditions must  be  fulfilled,  fillednamely,	 (i) that the classification must be founded  on  anintelligible  differentia  which  distinguishes	 persons  orthings that are grouped together     (1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1045.(2) [1950] S.C.R. 869.     (3)  [1951] S.C.R. 682.(4) [1952] S.C.R. 284.     (5) [1952] S.C.R. 433.(6) [1952] S.C.R. 710.     (7) [1953] S.C.R. 581    (8) [1953] S.C.R. 661.297from  others  left  out of the group  and,  (ii)  that	thatdifferentia  must  have a rational relation  to	 the  objectsought	to  be	achieved by the statute	 in  question.	 Theclassification	may be founded on different  bases,  namely,geographical, or according to objects or occupations or	 thelike.	What  is necessary is that there 'Must	be  a  nexusbetween	 the basis of classification and the object  of	 theAct under consideration.  It is also well established by thedecisions   of	 this  Court  that   article   14   condemnsdiscrimination	not only by a substantive law but also by  alaw of procedure."The principle enunciated above has been consistently adoptedand applied in subsequent cases.  The decisions of	thisCourt further establish-(a)  that a law may be constitutional even though it relatesto  a  single  individual if, on  account  of  some  specialcircumstances	or  reasons  applicable	 to  him   and	 notapplicable to others, that single individual may be  treatedas a class by himself;(b)  that  there  is always a presumption in favour  of	 theconstitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon himwho  attacks  it  to  show  that  there	 has  been  a  cleartransgression of the constitutional principles;(c)  that   it	must  be  presumed  that   the	 legislatureunderstands  and correctly appreciates the need of  its	 ownpeople, that its laws are directed to problems made manifestby  experience	and that its discriminations  are  based  onadequate grounds;(d)  that  the legislature is free to recognise	 degrees  ofharm  and may confine its restrictions to those cases  wherethe need is deemed to be the clearest ;(e)  that   in	 order	to  sustain   the   presumption	  ofconstitutionality  the	court may  take	 into  considerationmatters	 of common knowledge, matters of common report,	 thehistory	 of  the times and may assume every state  of  factswhich can be conceived existing at the time of	legislation;and(f)that	 while	good  faith and knowledge  of  the  existingconditions on the part of a legislature are to be  presumed,if there is nothing on the face of the38298law  or the surrounding circumstances brought to the  noticeof  the court on which the classification may reasonably  beregarded  as  based, the  presumption  of  constitutionalitycannot be carried to the extent of always holding that theremust be some undisclosed and unknown reasons for  subjectingcertain	  individuals	or  corporations   to	hostile	  ordiscriminating legislation.The  above  principles will have to be constantly  borne  inmind  by  the court when it is called upon  to	adjudge	 theconstitutionality   of	any  particular	 law   attacked	  asdiscriminatory and -violative of the equal protection of thelaws.A close perusal of the decisions of this Court in which	 theabove  principles have been enunciated and applied  by	thisCourt  will also show that a statute which may come  up	 forconsideration on a question of its validity under Art. 14 ofthe  Constitution,  may	 be placed in one or  other  of	 thefollowing five classes:-(i)  A statute may itself indicate the persons or things  towhom  its provisions are intended to apply and the basis  ofthe  classification of such persons or things may appear  onthe  face  of  the  statute or	may  be	 gathered  from	 thesurrounding circumstances known to or brought to the  noticeof  the court.	In determining the validity or otherwise  ofsuch  a	 statute  the  court has  to  examine  whether	suchclassification	is  or can be reasonably regarded  as  basedupon  some differentia which distinguishes such	 persons  orthings grouped together from those left out of the group andwhether	 such differentia has a reasonable relation  to	 theobject	sought	to  be achieved by the	statute,  no  matterwhether the provisions of the statute are intended to  applyonly  to a particular person or thing or only to  a  certainclass of persons or things.  Where the court finds that	 theclassification	satisfies the tests, the court	will  upholdthe validity of the law, as it did in Chiranjitlal  Chowdhriv.  The	 Union of India (1), The State of Bombay  v.  F.  N.Balsara (2), Kedar Nath(1) [1950] S.C.R. 869.(2) [1951] S.C.R. 682,299Bajoria v. The State of West Bengal (1), V. M. Syed Mohammad& Company v. The State of Andhra (2) and Budhan Choudhry  v.The State of Bihar (3).(ii)A	statute	 may  direct  its  provisions  against	 oneindividual person or thing or to several individual  personsor  things  but, no reasonable basis of	 classification	 mayappear	on  the	 face  of  it  or  be  deducible  from	 thesurrounding  circumstances, or matters of common  knowledge.In  such  a case the court will strike down the	 law  as  aninstance of naked discrimination, as it did in	AmeerunnissaBegum v. Mahboob Begum (4) and Ramprasad Narain Sahi v.	 TheState of Bihar (3).(iii)A	statute	 may  not make	any  classification  of	 thepersons or things for the purpose of applying its provisionsbut  may  -leave it to the discretion of the  Government  toselect and classify persons or things to whom its provisionsare  to apply.	In determining the question of the  validityor  otherwise  of such a statute the court will	 not  strikedown  the  law out of hand only	 because  no  Classificationappears on its face or because a discretion is given to	 theGovernment to make the selection or classification but	willgo on to examine and ascertain if the statute has laid	downany principle or policy for the guidance of the exercise  ofdiscretion by the Government in the matter of the  selectionor  classification.   After  such scrutiny  the	 court	willstrike	down  the  statute  if it  does	 not  lay  down	 anyprinciple  or policy for guiding the exercise of  discretionby   the   Government  in  the	matter	 of   selection	  orclassification, on the ground that the statute provides	 forthe  delegation of arbitrary and uncontrolled power  to	 theGovernment  so	as  to enable  it  to  discriminate  betweenpersons or things similarly situate and that, therefore, thediscrimination is inherent in the statute itself.  In such acase the court will strike down both the law as well as	 theexecutive action taken under such law, as it did in State ofWest  Bengal v. Anwar, Ali Sarkar (6), Dwarka  Prasad  LaxmiNarain v. The State of Uttar Pradesh(7)     (1) [1954] S.C.R. 30.	 (2) [1954] S.C.R. I 117.     (3) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 10045	(4) [1953] S.C.R. 44     (5) [1953] S.C. R. 1129.	(6) [1952] S.C.R. 284.     (7) [1954] S.C.R. 803.300and  Dhirendra	Krishna	 Mandal v.  The	 Superintendent	 andRemembrancer of Legal Affairs (1).(iv) A statute may not make a classification of the  personsor things for the purpose of applying its provisions and mayleave  it to the discretion of the Government to select	 andclassify the persons or things to whom its provisions are toapply  but  may	 at  the same time  lay	 down  a  policy  orprinciple for the guidance of the exercise of discretion  bythe   Government  in  the  matter  of  such   selection	  orclassification,	  the	court  will  uphold   the   law	  asconstitutional, as it did in Kathi Raning Rawat v. The Stateof Saurashtra (2).(v)  A statute may not make a classification of the  personsor things to whom their provisions are intended to apply andleave  it to the discretion of the Government to  select  orclassify the persons or things for applying those provisionsaccording  to the policy or the principle laid down  by	 thestatute itself for guidance of the exercise of discretion bythe   Government  in  the  matter  of  such   selection	  orclassification.	  If the Government in making the  selectionor classification does not proceed on or follow such  policyor  principle,	it has been held by this Court,	 e.  g.,  inKathi  Raning Rawat v. The State of Saurashtra (2)  that  insuch a case the executive action but not the statute  shouldbe   condemned	as  unconstitutionalIn  the light of the foregoing discussions the	question  atonce   arises:	In  what  category  does  the  Act  or	 thenotification  impugned	in these appeals fall  ?It will be apparent from its long title that the purpose  ofthe Act is to provide for the appointment of Commissions  ofInquiry	 and  for  vesting  such  Commissions  with  certainpowers.	  Section 3 empowers the appropriate Government,  incertain	 circumstances	therein	 mentioned,  to	 appoint   aCommission  of Inquiry for the purpose of making an  inquiryinto any definite matter of public importance and performingsuch  functions within such time as may be specified in	 thenotification.	 It   seems  clear-and	it  has	  not	beencontroverted-that on a proper construction of this(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 234.(2) [1952] S.C.R. 435.301section,   the	functions  the	performance  of	  which	  iscontemplated must be such as are ancillary to and in aid  ofthe  inquiry  itself  and  cannot  be  read  as	 a  functionindependent of or unconnected with such inquiry.  That beingthe  position, as we conceive it to be, the question  arisesas to the scope and ambit of the power which is conferred byit  on the appropriate Government.  The answer is  furnishedby  the	 statute  itself,  for	s.  3  indicates  that	 theappropriate Government .can appoint a Commission of  Inquiryonly for the purpose of making an inquiry into any  definitematter	of public importance and into no other	matter.	  Inother words the subject matter of the inquiry can only be  adefinite  matter  of  public  importance.   The	 appropriateGovernment, it follows, is not authorised by this section toappoint	 a Commission for the purpose of holding an  inquiryinto  any other matter.	 Learned Solicitor-General,  in	 thepremises, submits that the section itself on the face of it,makes.	a classification so that this statute  falls  withinthe  first category mentioned above and contends  that	thisclassification	of  things  is	based  on  an	intelligibledifferentia  which has a reasonable relation to	 the  objectsought to be achieved by it, for a definite matter of publicimportance may well call for an inquiry by a Commission.  Inthe alternative the learned Solicitor-General urges that  inany case the section itself quite clearly indicates that thepolicy	of Parliament is to provide for the  appointment  ofCommissions  of Inquiry to inquire into any definite  matterof  public importance and that as there is no knowing  when,where  or  how	any  such  matter  may	crop  up  Parliamentconsiders  it  necessary  or expedient to leave	 it  to	 theappropriate  Government	 to  take action  as  and  when	 theappropriate  moment  will  arrive.   In	 the  tempo  of	 theprevailing  conditions in modern society events occur  whichwere  never foreseen and it is impossible for Parliament  orany  legislature to anticipate all events or to provide	 forall eventualities and, therefore, it must leave the duty  oftaking	the necessary action to the appropriate	 Government.This  delegation of authority, however, is not	unguided  oruncontrolled,302for  the discretion given to the appropriate  Government  toset up a Commission of Inquiry must be guided by the  policylaid down, namely, that the executive action of setting up aCommission  of Inquiry must conform to the condition of	 thesection,  that is to say, that there must exist	 a  definitematter.	 of public importance into which an inquiry  is,  inthe  opinion of the appropriate Government, necessary or  isrequired by a resolution in that behalf passed by the  Houseof the People or the Legislative Assembly of the State.	  Ifthe  preambles	or the provisions of  the  statutes  classedunder  the first category mentioned above could be  read  asmaking	 a   reasonable	  classification   satisfying	 therequirements  of Art. 14 and if the preamble to the  statuteconsidered  in the case of Kathi Raning Rawat (1)  could  beconstrued  as laying down sufficiently clearly a  policy  orprinciple for the guidance of the executive, what  objectioncan  there  be to construing s. 3 of the Act now  under	 ourconsideration as also making a reasonable classification  orat any rate as declaring with sufficient clarity the  policyof  Parliament and laying down a principle for the  guidanceof  the	 exercise of the powers	 conferred  the	 appropriateGovernment  so	as  to bring this statute at  least  in	 thefourth category, if not also in the first category ? On	 theauthorities,  as  they	stand, it cannot  be  said  that  anarbitrary  and uncontrolled power has been delegated to	 theappropriate  Government and that, therefore, the law  itselfis bad.Learned	 counsel for the petitioners next contends  that  ifthe  Act is good in the sense that has declared	 its  policyand  laid  down	 some  principle for  the  guidance  of	 theGovernment in the exercise of the power conferred on it, theappropriate Government has failed to exercise its discretionproperty  on  the  basis of  a,	 reasonable  classification.Article	 14 protects all persons from discrimination by	 thelegislative as well as by the executive organ of the  State."State"	 is defined in Art. 12 as including  the  Governmentand  "law  "  is  defined  in  Art.  13	 as  including	 anynotification  or  order' It has to be  conceded,  therefore,that(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 435.303it  is open to the petitioners also to question the  consti-tutionality  of the notification.  The attack  against,	 thenotification  is  that	the  Government	 has  not   properlyimplemented  the policy or followed the principle laid	downin  the Act and has consequently transgressed the bounds  ofthe  authority delegated to it.	 It is pointed out  that  inMarch,	1946, one Shri Tricumdas Dwarkadas, a  solicitor  ofBombay,	 had  been appointed an officer on Special  Duty  toindicate the lines on which the Indian Companies Act was  tobe revised.  He made a report which was, however, incompletein certain particulars.	 Thereupon the Government  appointedShri  Thiruvenkatachari, the Advocate-General of Madras,  tomake   further	inquiry.   The	last   mentioned   gentlemansubmitted his report and on the basis of that report, it  issaid,  a  memorandum  containing  tentative  proposals	 wasprepared  and circulated to elicit the opinions	 of  variousorganisations.	On October 28, 1950, a Committee called	 theIndian	Company Law Committee-popularly known as  the  BhabaCommittee-was  appointed.   That Committee  went  round	 andcollected materials and made its comprehensive report on thebasis  of  which the new Indian Companies Act  has  recentlybeen remodeled.	 As nothing new has since then happened why,it  is	asked',	 should any further inquiry be	made  ?	 Theconclusion  is	pressed	 upon  us that	there  can,  in	 thecircumstances,	be no definite matter of  public  importancewhich can possibly call for an inquiry.	 We find no force inthis argument.	In the first place the Bhaba Committee at p.29 of its Report recommended that further inquiries may,  infuture,	 have to be made regarding some matters relating  toCompanies  and, therefore, the necessity for  fresh  inquirycannot	be  ruled out.	In the next  place  the	 appropriateGovernment  is empowered to appoint a Commission of  Inquiryif, in its opinion, it is necessary so to do.  The preamblesto  the notification recite that certain matters  enumeratedunder  five  heads had been made to appear  to	the  CentralGovernment  in consequence of which the	 Central  Governmenthad  come  to  the conclusion that there should	 be  a	fullinquiry into those matters which,304in  its opinion, were definite matters of public  importanceboth  by reason of the grave consequences which appeared  tohave ensued to the investing public and for determining suchmeasures as might be deemed necessary in order to prevent  arecurrence  thereof.  Parliament in its wisdom has left	 thematter	of the setting up of a Commission of Inquiry to	 thediscretion  of the appropriate Government and if the  appro-priate	Government  has formed the opinion that	 a  definitematter	of  public importance has arisen and  calls  for  aninquiry the court will not lightly brush aside the opinion.Learned	 counsel  for the petitioners argues  that  grantingthat  the  question as to the necessity for  constituting  aCommission  of	Inquiry	 has been  left	 to  the  subjectivedetermination  of  the	appropriate  Government	 the  actualsetting	 up of a Commission is conditioned by the  existence'of some definite matter of public importance.	If there  beno  such definite matter of public importance  in  existencethen  no question of necessity for appointing  a  Commissioncan arise.  Reference is then made to the first preamble  tothe notification and it is pointed out that all the  mattersalleged	 to  have  been	 made  to  appear  to  the   CentralGovernment  relate  to some supposed act or conduct  of	 thepetitioners.   The contention is repeated that the  act	 andconduct	 of  individual	 persons can never  be	regarded  asdefinite  matters  of public importance.  We are  unable  toaccept	this  argument	as sound, for  as  we  have  alreadystated,	 the act or conduct of individuals may	assume	suchdangerous  proportions as may well affect the  public  well-being	and  thus  become  a  definite	matter	 of   publicimportance.    We   do	not,  therefore,  agree	  that	 thenotification  should  be struck down for the  absence  of  adefinite matter of public importance calling for an inquiry.The  point which is next urged in support of  these  appealsand  which  has given us considerable anxiety  is  that	 thepetitioners  and  their	 companies  have  been	 arbitrarilysingled	 out for the purpose of hostile	 and  discriminatorytreatment  and	subjected  to  a  harassing  and  oppressiveinquiry.  The provisions of Art. 14,305it is contended, protect every person against discriminationby  the	 State,	 namely,  against the law  as  well  as	 theexecutive action and this protection extends to State actionat  all its stages.  The petitioners' grievance is that	 theGovernment  had started discrimination even at the  earlieststage	when   it  conceived  the  idea	  of   issuing	 thenotification.  Reference is made to the Memorandum filed  bythe  Bombay  Shareholders'  Association	 before	 the   BhabaCommittee  showing that the same or similar allegations	 hadbeen  made  not	 only  against	the  petitioners  and  theircompanies but against other businessmen and their  companiesand  that although the petitioners and their  companies	 andthose other persons and their companies were thus  similarlysituate, in that allegations had been made against both, theGovernment  arbitrarily applied the Act to  the	 petitionersand  their companies and issued the notification  concerningthem but left out the others from its operation.  It is truethat  the notification primarily or even solely affects	 thepetitioners and their companies but it cannot be  overlookedthat Parliament having left the selective application of theAct  to	 the discretion of the appropriate  Government,	 thelatter must of necessity take its decision on the  materialsavailable  to  it  and the opinion it  forms  thereon.	 Theappropriate Government cannot in such matters be expected tosit  down and hold a judicial inquiry into the truth of	 thematerials  brought before it, and examine the informants  onoath in the presence of the parties who are or may be likelyto be affected by its decision.	 In matters of this kind theappropriate  Government	 has of necessity to  act  upon	 theinformation  available to it.  It is the best judge of'	 thereliability  of its source of information and if it acts  ingood  faith  on	 the materials brought	to  its	 notice	 andhonestly comes to the conclusion that the act and conduct ofthe   petitioners  and	the  affairs  of   their   companiesconstitute  a definite matter of public	 importance  callingfor an inquiry with a view to devise measures for preventingthe  recurrence	 of  such evil, this  Court,  not  being  inpossession of all the facts will,39306we apprehend, be slow to adjudge the executive action to  bebad  and illegal.  We are not unmindful of the fact  that  avery  wide  discretionary power has been  conferred  on	 theGovernment  and,  indeed, the contemplation that  such	widepowers	in the hands of the executive may in some  cases  bemisused	 or abused and turned into an engine  of  oppressionhas caused considerable anxiety in our mind.   Nevertheless,the  bare  possibility	that the powers may  be	 misused  orabused cannot per se induce the court to deny the  existenceof the powers.	It cannot be overlooked that Parliament	 hasconfided  this discretion, not to any petty official but  tothe   appropriate  Government  itself  to  take	 action	  inconformity  with the policy and principle laid down  in	 theAct.   As  this Court 'has said in Matajog Dobey  v.  H.  C.Bhari  (1),  " a discretionary power is	 not  necessarily  adiscriminatory	power and that abuse of power is not  to  beeasily	assumed	 where	the  discretion	 is  vested  in	 theGovernment  and	 not in a minor official.  " We	 feel  sure,however, that if this law is administered by the  Government"  with an evil eye and an unequal hand " or for an  obliqueor  unworthy  purpose the arms of this Court  will  be	longenough	to  reach it and to strike down such  abuse  with  aheavy  hand.  What, then, we inquire, are the salient  factshere  ?	 The Central Government appointed  investigators  toscrutinise   the  affairs  of  three  of  the	petitioners'concerns.  Those investigators had made their reports to theCentral	 Government.   The Central Government had  also	 theBhaba  Committee Report and all the Memoranda  filed  beforethat  Committee.   It may also have  had  other	 informationavailable to it and on those materials it formed its opinionthat the act and conduct of the petitioners and the  affairsof  their companies constituted a definite matter of  publicimportance which required a full inquiry.  Up to this  stagethere  is  no question of legal proof  of   the	 allegationsagainst	 the  petitioners as in a court of  law.   The	onlyquestion  is:  do those allegations  if	 honestly  believed,constitute  a definite matter of public importance ? We	 areunable to say that they do not.(1)  [1955] S.C.R. 925, 932.307Reference is again made to the several matters enumerated inthe  five  clauses  set out in the first,  preamble  to	 thenotification  and it is urged that those matters do  not  atall  disclose any intelligible differentia on the  basis  ofwhich  the  petitioners and their companies can	 be  groupedtogether  as  a class.	On the part of the  Union  of  Indiareference  is made to the affidavits affirmed by Shri H.  M.Patel,	the Principal Secretary to the Finance	Ministry  ofthe  Government of India purporting to set out in detail  asthe  background thereof, the circumstances which led to	 theissue  of the impugned notification and the matters  recitedtherein	 and  the several reports referred to  in  the	saidaffidavit.   Learned  counsel for the petitioners  take	 theobjection  that reference cannot be made to  any  extraneousmatter	and that the basis of classification must appear  onthe  face of the notification itself and reliance is  placedon  certain  observations  in the  dissenting  judgments  inChiranjitlal  Chowdhury's  case (1) and in item (2)  of	 thesummary	 given	by  Fazl Ali J. in his	judgment  in  F.  N.Balsara's case (2). In Chiranjitlal Chowdhury's case (1) themajority  of  the Court read the preamble to  the  Ordinancewhich was replaced by the Act which was under  considerationthere  as  part	 of the Act  and  considered  the  recitals,reinforced  as they were by the presumption of	validity  ofthe  Act,  as  prima  facie  sufficient	 to  constitute	  anintelligible basis for regarding the company concerned as  aclass  by itself and held that the petitioner there had	 notdischarged the onus that was on him.  The dissenting Judges,after  pointing out that the petition and the affidavit	 didnot  give any indication as to the differentia on the  basisof  which the company had been singled out, went on  to	 saythat the statute also did not on the face of it indicate anybasis  of classification.  This was included in cl.  (2)  ofthe summary set out in the judgment in F. N. Balsara's	case(2).   Those  observations  cannot, therefore,	be  read  asmeaning	 that the classification must always appear  on	 theface of the law itself and that reference cannot be made to(1) [1550] S.C.R. 869.(2) [1951] S.C.R. 682.308any   extraneous   materials.	In  fact   in	ChiranjitlalChowdhury's case (1) parliamentary proceedings, in so far asthey  depicted the surrounding circumstances  and  furnishedthe  background, were referred to.  In Kathi Raning  Rawat'scase  (2) the hearing was adjourned in order to	 enable	 therespondent to put in an affidavit setting forth the materialcircumstances.	  In  Kedarnath	 Bajoria's  case   (3)	 thesituation  brought  about by the war  conditions  was  takennotice	of The same may be said of the cases of	 A.  ThanyalKunju  Musaliar v. V. Venkitachulam Potti (4)  and  PannalalBinjraj v. Union of India (5).	In our judgment,  therefore,there  can  be no objection to the matters  brought  to	 thenotice	of  the court by the affidavit of Shri H.  M.  Patelbeing  taken  into  consideration  along  with	the  mattersspecified in the notification in order to ascertain  whetherthere  was any valid basis for treating the petitioners	 andtheir companies as a class by themselves.Learned counsel for the petitioners next urges that even  ifthe matters referred to in Shri H. M. Patel's affidavits andthose  appearing on the face of the notification  are  takeninto   consideration   one  cannot  deduce   therefrom	 anydifferentia   which   may  be  taken  to   distinguish	 thepetitioners and their companies from other persons and theircompanies.  The qualities and characteristics imputed to thepetitioners  and their companies are not at all peculiar  orexclusive  to  them  but are to be found  equally  in  otherpersons and companies and yet they and their companies	havebeen  singled out for hostile and  discriminatory  treatmentleaving out other persons and companies which are  similarlysituate.   There is no force in this  argument.	  Parliamenthas  confided the task of the selective application  of	 thelaw  to the appropriate Government and it is, therefore	 forthe appropriate Government to exercise its discretion in thematter.	  It  is to be expected-and, until the	contrary  isproved,	 it is to be presumed-that the Government, which  isresponsible  to Parliament, will act honestly, properly	 andin conformity with the(1) [1950] S.C.R. 869.	 (2) [1952] S.C.R. 435.(3) [1954] S.C. R. 30.	  (4) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1196. (5) [1957] S.C.R. 233.309policy	and principle laid down by Parliament.	It may	wellbe that the Central Government thought that even if one,  ormore   of  the	particular  qualities  and   characteristicsattributed  to	the petitioners and their companies  may  befound in another person or company, the combination of thosequalities and characteristics which it thought were  presentin  the	 petitioners  and their companies was  of  a  uniquenature	and was not present in any other person or  company.In its appreciation of the material facts preparatory to theexercise  of  the discretion left to it	 by  Parliament	 theCentral	 Government may have thought that the evil was	morepronounced  in the petitioners and their concerns  than	 anyother person or concern and that the need for an inquiry wasmore  urgent  and clear in the case of the  petitioners	 andtheir  companies  than in the case of any  other  person  orcompany.  What is the gist and substance of' the allegationsagainst the petitioners and their companies ? They are	thata  small  group	 of persons had from  before  1946  acquiredcontrol	 over  a number of companies  including	 a  blankingcompany	 and  an  insurance company ;  that  some  of  thesecompanies were private companies and the others were  publiccompanies  in  which the public	 had  invested	considerablemoneys	by buying, shares; that the financial years of	someof these companies were different from those of the  others;that  the funds of' the limited companies were	utilised  inpurchasing  shares in other companies having  large  reservefunds  with a view to get control over them and	 to  utilisethose  funds  for  acquiring shares in	other  companies  orotherwise  utilise those funds for the personal	 benefit  ofthese  individuals; that the shares were acquired  on  blanktransfer  deeds and were not registered in the names of	 thecompanies  with	 whose funds they were purchased  so  as  topermit the same shares to be shown in the balance sheets  ofthe  different companies having different  financial  years;that  after 1951 several of these companies were taken	intovoluntary  liquidation or their assets were  transferred  toanother company under some pretended scheme of'	 arrangementor re-organisation; that after getting control of310a  company  they appointed some of  themselves	as  managingdirector  or selling agent on high remuneration and after  awhile cancelled such appointment on paying fabulous  amountsas  and	 by way of compensation; that funds of	one  companywere  transferred  to another company to cover up  the	realfinancial position.  It is needless to add other allegationsto  explain  the  matter.  The question	 before	 us  is	 notwhether the allegations made on the face of the notificationand in the affidavits filed on behalf of the Union of  Indiaare  true but whether the qualities and characteristics,  ifhonestly  believed  to be found in the petitioners,  are  sopeculiar  or unique as to constitute a good and valid  basison which the petitioners and their companies can be regardedas  a class by themselves.  We are not of opinion that	theydo not.	 It is not for us to say on this application and  wedo  not	 in fact say or even suggest  that  the	 allegationsabout  the  petitioners and their concerns are at  all	wellfounded.   It is sufficient for our present purpose  to	 saythat  the  facts disclosed on the face of  the	notificationitself	and the facts which have been brought to our  noticeby   the  affidavits  afford  sufficient  support   to	 thepresumption of constitutionality of the notification.  Therebeing  thus a presumption of validity in favour of  the	 Actand  the notification, it is for the petitioners  to  allegeand  prove  beyond  doubt that other  persons  or  companiessimilarly situate have been left out and the petitioners andtheir companies have been singled out for discriminatory andhostile	 treatment.  The petitioners have, in  our  opinion,failed	to  discharge  that onus.   Indeed  nowhere  in	 thepetitions  is  there even an averment that there  are  otherpersons	 or companies similarly situate as  the	 petitionersand  their  companies.	 It has to be  remembered  that	 theallegations  set  forth in the memorandum submitted  by	 theBombay Shareholders' Association to the Bhaba Committee havenot been proved by legal evidence.  And further that  reportitself contains matters which may be taken as calculated  tolend  support to the view that whether regard is had to	 thecombination  of a variety of evils or to their	degree,	 thepetitioners may quite conceivably311be  grouped as a class by themselves.  In our  judgment	 theplea  of the infraction of the equal protection,  clause  ofour Constitution cannot be sustained.The next contention is that the notification is bad, becausethe action of the Government in issuing it was mala fide andamounted  to an abuse of power.	 Learned  counsel  appearingfor the petitioner, who is the appellant in Civil Appeal No.455  of	 1957,	makes it clear that no	personal  motive  orillwill	 against the petitioners is imputed to any one,	 buthe  points out that the Bhaba Committee had been set up	 andthe  Companies Act has been remodelled and,  therefore,	 thepresent	 Commission  was  not  set  up	for  any  legitimatepurpose.   The main idea, according to learned counsel,	 wasto obtain information which the Government  could not get byfollowing the ordinary procedure under the Code of  CriminalProcedure  and	this  ulterior	motive	clearly	 makes	 thegovernmental action mala fide.	This point has been  furtheremphasised by learned counsel appearing for the petitioners,who  are  appellants in Civil Appeals Nos. 456	and  457  of1957.  He has drawn our attention to the affidavits filed byhis  clients  and  contends that it was	 well-known  to	 theGovernment  that none of them was concerned in promoting  ormanaging any of the companies and their position being	thuswell-known  to	the  Government,  their	 inclusion  in	 thenotification  was  both outside the power conferred  by	 theGovernment and also constituted a mala fide exercise of	 thepower conferred on it.	No substantial ground in support  ofthis  point  has  been	brought before us  and	we  are	 notsatisfied that the circumstances referred    to	   in	 thenotification and the affidavits filed on     behalf  of	 theUnion of India, may not, if true,  be the basis of a furtherinquiry into the matter.      It will be for the  Commissionto inquire into the allegations and come to its own findingsand  make its report containing its recommendations.  It  isnot  desirable	that  we should say anything  more  on	thispoint.	 All  that we need say is that the  charge  of	malafides has not been brought home to the Government.312A  point  was  taken  that  the	 original  notification	 wasdefective  in that it did not fix the time within which	 theCommission was to complete its report and that a  subsequentnotification  fixing a time could not cure that defect.	  Wedo not think there is any substance in this too.  The  thirdnotification quoted above amended the original	notificationby  fixing  a  time.   There  was  nothing  to	prevent	 theGovernment  from issuing a fresh notification  appointing  aCommission and fixing a time.  If that could be done,  therewas  no reason why the same result could not be achieved  bythe  combined effect of two notifications.  In any case	 theamending  notification	taken  together	 with  the  originalnotification may be read as a fresh notification within	 themeaning of s. 3 of the Act, operative at least from the dateof the later notification.It  is	feebly	argued that the notification is	 bad  as  itamounts	 to a delegation of essential legislative  function.Assuming  that there is delegation of legislative  function,the  Act  having laid down its policy,	such  delegation  ofpower,	if any, is not vitiated at all, for the	 legislationby the delegates will have to conform to the policy so	laiddown  by  the  Act.   Lastly a	point  is  raised  that	 thenotification  is  bad  because it violates Art.	 23  of	 theConstitution.  It is frankly stated by the learned  counsel.that  this point is rather premature at this stage and	thathe  desires  to reserve his client's right to  raise  it  infuture.No  other  point has been urged before us  and	for  reasonsstated	above the appeals Nos. 455, 456 and 457 of 1957	 aredismissed with costs.  Appeals Nos. 656, 657 and 658 of 1957succeed	 only in part, namely, to the extent that  only	 theword-, " by way of redress or punishment " occurring in	 thelatter	portion	 of  el. (10) will be deleted  so  that	 thelatter	portion of cl. (10) will read as: " and	 the  actionwhich	in   the  opinion  of  the  Commission	 should	  betaken..................	 to  act as a preventive  in  futurecases  "  as indicated above.  We make no order	 as  to	 thecosts of these three appeals.C.   A. Nos. 455, 456 and 457 of 1957 dismissed.C.   A. Nos. 656, 657 and 658 of 1957 Partly allowed.313