PETITIONER:BABU BARKYA THAKUR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/08/1960BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.WANCHOO, K.N.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1203 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC 343	 (5,7) R	    1962 SC 764	 (5,21) R	    1963 SC 151	 (21,34,53) RF	    1965 SC 646	 (9) RF	    1965 SC 995	 (6) RF	    1966 SC1593	 (15) R	    1966 SC1788	 (18,20) D	    1967 SC1074	 (8) O	    1970 SC 564	 (4) RF	    1971 SC 306	 (5,10) D	    1973 SC1150	 (9) RF	    1973 SC1461	 (1017) R	    1978 SC 597	 (128,129) RF	    1980 SC1678	 (3) R	    1985 SC 736	 (5,14) D	    1985 SC1622	 (13,15) RF	    1992 SC1827	 (2)ACT:Land Acquisition--Preliminary notification--Land needed	 forcompany--Non-mention	 of	public	   purpose--LegalityProceedings, if violate fundamental rights--Land AcquisitionAct,  1894  (1 of 1894), ss. 4, 5A, 6,	40--Constitution  ofIndia, Arts. 19(1)(f), 31.HEADNOTE:By  a notification under s. 4 of the Land  Acquisition	Act,1894,  the  State  of Bombay  (now  Maharashtra)  sought  toacquire	 certain lands, including those of  the	 petitioner,which  were likely to be needed by a company,  manufacturingsteel  bars  and  rods, for its factory	 and  buildings	 andappointed a Special Land Acquisition Officer to function  asa  Collector under s. 5A of the Act.  The petitioner  by  anobjection  filed  before the said officer  denied  that	 thelands were required for a public purpose and prayed that theproceedings be quashed.	 By his petition to this Court underArt.  32 of the Constitution the petitioner  challenged	 thelegality  of the notification under s. 4 of the Act  on	 theground that it did not in terms say that the acquisition wasfor  a public purpose, and that the acquisition	 proceedingsinfringed Arts. 19 and 31 of the Constitution.Held, that it is not essential that a notification under  S.4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, should expressly  statethat129the  land  sought  to be acquired is  needed  for  a  publicpurpose.   Where  the land is required for  a  company,	 therequirement  of	 the  law will be sufficiently	met  if	 theappropriate  Government	 is satisfied on a report  under  S.5A(2)  or  by  an enquiry under s. 40 of the  Act  that	 thepurpose of the acquisition is the same as contemplated by s.40 of the Act.It is apparent from the definitions of the expressions	com-pany  '	 and 'public purpose' contained in s. 3 of  the	 Actthat  the former is used in a very comprehensive  sense	 andthe  latter  is	 used in its  generic  sense  including	 anypurpose	 which may benefit even a fraction of the  communityand such purposes as are mentioned in s. 40 of the Act	mustfall within its ambit.State  of  Bombay  v. Bhanji Munji,  [1955]  1	S.C.R.	777,referred to.A notification under s. 4 of the Act envisages a preliminaryinvestigation and it is only under s. 6 that the  Governmentmakes a firm declaration.  It is not, therefore, correct  tosay  that a defect in the notification can be fatal  to	 theacquisition   proceedings   and	  particularly	 where	 theacquisition  is	 for a company and investigation has  to  bemade  under  s.	 5A  or	 s.  40	 after	the  issue  of	 thenotification.	In  this  view of  the	matter	the  presentapplication must be premature.Clause	(6) of the Art. 31 has obviously no  application  tothe  Land Acquisition Act, 1894, and so it is saved by	Art.31(5)(a)  of  the  Constitution	 even  if  it	contemplatesacquisition  for  a company which may or may not  be  for  apublic purpose.Lilavati Bai v. State of Bombay, [1957] S.C.R. 721, referredto.The attack under Art. 19(i)(f) of the Constitution must alsofail  in  view	of the decision of this Court  in  State  ofBombay v. Bhanji Munji, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 777.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 134 of 1959.Petition  under	 Art. 32 of the Constitution  of  India	 forenforcement of fundamental rights.J.   C. Bhatt, R. Ganapathy Iyer and G. Gopalakrishnan,	 forthe petitioner.N.   S. Bindra, R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for	 respondentsNos. 1 and 2.S.   K.	 Kapur,	 P.  M.	 Mukhi and  B.	P.  Maheshwari,	 forrespondent No. 3.1960.  August 8. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by17130SINHA  C.J.-This petition under Art. 32 of the	Constitutionimpugns	 the  constitutionality	 of  the  land	 acquisitionproceedings  with particular reference to  the	notificationunder s. 4 of the Land Acquisition Act (hereinafter referredto  as " the Act ") in respect of an   area of	land  withinthe  district of Thana in the State of Bombay, now known  asthe State of Maharashtra.In order to appreciate the controversy raised in this  case,it  is	necessary  to  state  the  following  facts.   By  anotification dated April 3, 1959, the first respondent,	 theState  of  Bombay (now Maharashtra) under s. 4 of  the	LandAcquisition Act of 1894, stated that the lands specified  inthe  schedule attached to the said notification were  likelyto  be	needed	for the purposes of  the  third	 respondent,Messrs.	  Mukund  Iron	&  Steel  Works	 Ltd...	 a   companyregistered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913, and  havingits registered office at Kurla, Bombay No. 37, in the  Stateof   Maharashtra,  for	its  factory  buildings	 etc.	 Thenotification  further stated that under cl. (c) of s.  3  ofthe  Act, the Government was pleased to appoint the  SpecialLand Acquisition Officer, the second respondent, to  performthe functions of the Collector under s. 5A of the said	Act.The land in which the petitioner, who is a citizen of India,claims to be interested as owner is included in the scheduleaforesaid.   The  petitioner  appeared	before	the   secondrespondent  aforesaid and after several adjournments  lodgedobjections  on June 9, 1959 and also made  oral	 submissionsthrough his Advocate on that date and the day following, andrequested the second respondent to quash the proceedings  onthe ground that the lands contained in the notification werenot required for any public purpose and that the proceedingswere vexatious and malicious.  It was further stated  beforethe   second  respondent  that	the  third  respondent	 hadnegotiated  by	private	 treaty	 for  the  purchase  of	 thenotified  area.	  The second  respondent  adjourned  furtherhearing	 of the case in order to enable the  petitioner	 andthe  third respondent to come to an amicable settlement.   Afurther	 hearing took place before the second respondent  onJuly 15, 1959.	On131that date the petitioner proposed to lead evidence of ownersof several pieces of land included in the area notified	 foracquisition to prove that the lands included in the scheduleto the notification were not as a matter of fact required bythe  third  respondent for any public purpose and  that	 thethird respondent had even negotiated for the purchase of thesaid  lands  by private treaty, but  the  second  respondentrefused	 permission to lead such evidence on behalf  of	 thepetitioner.The petitioner raises a number of questions of law attackingthe  constitutionality of the land  acquisition	 proceedingsand  prays for orders or directions to the State  Governmentnot  to give its consent to the aforesaid acquisition  unders.  39 of the Act nor to enter into any agreement  with	 thethird  respondent  under  s. 41 of the Act nor	to  issue  anotification  under s. 6 of the Act declaring that the	landin  question is needed for a public purpose,  because  aftersuch  a	 declaration the petitioner may be deprived  of	 theopportunity of contending that the land was not needed for apublic purpose.The third respondent, through its Business Manager, has	 putin  an affidavit in answer to the petitioner's case and	 hascontended  that	 this  writ petition is	 premature  and	 notmaintainable, that so far, only a notification under s. 4 ofthe Act has been issued and objections under s. 5A on behalfof the petitioner have been heard by the second	 respondent,that  the  State Government has yet to be  satisfied  as  towhether	 the acquisition is for purposes specified in s.  40of the Act and so long as the previous consent of the appro-priate Government has not been given, the provisions of	 ss.6  to  37 of the Act cannot be put into	 operation.   It  isdenied that the acquisition is not for a public purpose	 andthat the proceedings are vexatious or malicious.  The  thirdrespondent does not admit that the second respondent refusedpermission  to	the petitioner to lead	any  evidence.	 Theaverments  in the petition on the merits of the	 controversyare denied.  It is stated on behalf of the third  respondentthat public are vitally interested in the production of this132Company, the chief products being steel bars and rods  whichare  in great public demand and are of such vital  necessityto  the	 country that their very  production,  distribution,supply	and  price are controlled by  the  Government.	 Theproducts  of the Company are consumed directly in  bulk	 forpublic	utility projects like dams, hydroelectric  projects,roads,	railways,  industrial plants and  housing  projects,both in the public and private sectors, which constitute thecore  of the several five year plans of the Government.	  Itis  further stated that the Company (respondent No.  3)	 hasincluded in its proposed industrial expansion projects to beestablished  on	 the land sought to be	acquired,  extensiveprovisions  for	 housing for a large  number  of  employees'families  as also for their welfare by providing for  parks,gardens,  playgrounds,	medical relief	centre	and  similarother  amenities for the welfare of the employees and  theirfamilies.   All those projects, it is claimed on  behalf  ofthe  third  respondent, are a "	 highly	 commendable  publicpurpose " which is far more advantageous to the community ingeneral than to shareholders of the Company.  It is  furtherstated	 that	the  first  respondent	 made	a   detailedinvestigation  about  the usefulness to the  public  of	 theexpansion  project  of	the  Company  including	  employees'housing	 schemes  and  welfare	projects  and  when  it	 wassatisfied  about, the bona fides of the	 respondent  Companyand the genuineness and urgency of their projects and  theirutility	 to the public that the first  respondent  publishedthe notification under s. 4 of the Act on April 3, 1959.The  affidavit	sworn to by the second	respondent,  SpecialLand   Acquisition  Officer,  Thana,  also   questions	 themaintainability of the writ petition and generally  supportsthe case sought to be made out by the third respondent.	  Itis  also stated on his behalf that the petitioner or any  ofthe  other  persons  interested in the	land  sought  to  beacquired  did  not  produce any evidence  and  that  it	 wasabsolutely  incorrect to say that he prevented	anyone	fromleading	  any  evidence	 as  alleged.	The   Special	LandAcquisition  Officer  has  made	 the  following	 categoricalstatements:-133"It is denied that the acquisition of the said lands for thepurpose	 of the third respondent is in no way useful to	 thepublic or that the public are not entitled to the use of anyof the works of the Company as alleged by the petitioner.  Isay  that the products which are being produced and will  beproduced  are  used and intended to be used  inter  alia  inpublic	undertakings  intended for  the	 general  industrialdevelopment of the country.  It is denied that the  proposedacquisition  is merely for the benefit of  few	individuals,namely,	 the shareholders of the Company as alleged  by	 thepetitioner."Further on he adds the following:-" With reference to paragraph 13 of the said petition, it isdenied	that  I did not permit the petitioner  to  lead	 anyevidence  before  me  as alleged by  the  petitioner.	Thisallegation, I say, is absolutely dishonest and false.  It isdenied	that  the notification issued  by  Government  undersection 4 of the said Act is not bona fide or is an abuse ofthe powers vested in Government.  It is denied that the saidnotification  is  illegal or that, it is not  made  in	goodfaith ".On these allegations and counter allegations the  petitionerhas moved this Court to exercise its powers under Art. 32 ofthe Constitution on the grounds that the notification  unders.  4  of  the Act is illegal,	that  the  land	 acquisitionproceedings  are in violation of Arts. 14, 19 and 31 of	 theConstitution  and that the acquisition is not for  a  publicpurpose and is mala fide.In  order to determine the present controversy, it  will  beconvenient,   at  this	stage,	to  examine   the   relevantprovisions of the Act.	The Act has the following preamble:-"  Whereas  it	is  expedient  to  amend  the  law  for	 theacquisition  of	 land  needed for public  purposes  and	 forCompanies and for determining the amount of compensation  tobe made on account of such acquisition ;.........In the definition section 3, the definitions of " Company  "and  "	public purpose " are particularly  noteworthy.	 Theexpression " Company " has been used in a very comprehensivesense of including not only134the Companies registered under several statutes, Indian	 andEnglish,  but also includes a society registered  under	 theSocieties Registration Act of 1860 and a registered  societywithin	the meaning of the Co-operative Societies Act.	 Theexpression  "  public  purpose' includes  the  provision  ofvillage	  sites	 in  districts	in  which  the	 appropriateGovernment  shall  have	 declared  by  notification  in	 theofficial gazette that it is customary for the Government  tomake  such  provision.	 It will thus be  noticed  that	 theexpression  " public purpose " has been used in its  genericsense  of including any purpose in which even a fraction  ofthe  community	may  be interested or by  which	 it  may  bebenefited.    The  proceedings	begin  with   a	  Governmentnotification under s. 4 that land in any locality is  neededor  is likely to be needed for any public purpose.   On	 theissue of such a notification it is permissible for a  publicservant	 and  workmen to enter upon the land to	 do  certainacts  specified therein with a view to ascertaining  whetherthe  land  is  adapted	for the purpose	 for  which  it	 wasproposed to be acquired as also to determine the  boundariesof  the	 land  proposed	 to be included	 in  the  scheme  ofacquisition.   It will be noticed that though  the  preamblemakes  reference  not only to public purposes, but  tlso  toCompanies,  the	 preliminary  notification under  s.  4	 hasreference only to public purpose and not to a CompanySection	 5A, which was inserted by the amending Act of	1923and makes provision for hearing of objections by any  personinterested in any land notified under s. 4, makes  referencenot  only to public purpose, but also to a Company.   It  isnoticeable that s. 5A predicates that the notification unders.  4(1)  may  not only refer to land needed  for  a  publicpurpose, but also to land needed for a Company and after theenquiry	 as  contemplated  by s. 5A has been  made  and	 theCollector  has	heard  objections, if  any,  by,  interestedparties he has to submit his report to the Government  alongwith  the  record  of the proceedings held by  him  and	 hisrecommendations	  on   the   objections.    Thereupon,	 theGovernment has to make up its mind whether or not135the  objections	 were well-founded and the decision  of	 theappropriate Government of those objections is to be  treatedas  final.   If	 the  Government  decides  to  overrule	 theobjections  and	 is satisfied that the	land,  the  subject-matter	of the proceedings, was needed for a public  purposeor  for	 a  Company, a declaration has to be  made  to	thateffect.	  Such	a  declaration has to be  published  in	 theofficial  gazette and has to contain the particulars of	 theland  including	 its approximate area and  the	purpose	 forwhich  it  is needed.  Once the declaration under s.  6	 hasbeen made, it shall be conclusive evidence that the land  isneeded	for a public purpose or for a Company.	Then  followthe  usual Proceedings after notice is given to the  partiesconcerned  to claim compensation in respect of any  interestin  the	 land in question ; and the award after	 making	 thenecessary  investigation as to claims to conflicting  title,the compensation to be allowed in respect of the land,	and,if  necessary, apportionment of the amount  of	compensationamongst	 the persons believed to be interested in  the	landunder  acquisition.   We  are not concerned  here  with	 theproceedings that follow upon the award of the Collector	 andthe matters to be agitated therein.From  the preamble as also from the provisions of ss. 5A,  6and 7, it is obvious that the Act makes a clear	 distinctionbetween acquisition of land needed for a public purpose	 andthat  for a Company, as if land needed for a Company is	 notalso for a public purpose.  The Act has gone further and hasdevoted Part VII to acquisition of land for Companies and insub-s.	(2) s. of 38, with which Part VII  begins,  providesthat  in the case of an acquisition for a Company,  for	 thewords  " for such purpose " the words " for purposes of	 theCompany " shall be deemed to have been substituted.  It	 hasbeen  laid  down  by s. 39 that the machinery  of  the	LandAcquisition Act, beginning with s. 6 and ending with s.	 37,shall  not  be	put into  operation  unless  two  conditionsprecedent are fulfilled, namely, (1) the previous consent ofthe  appropriate  Government has been obtained	and  (2)  anagreement  in  terms  of  s. 41 has  been  executed  by	 theCompany.136The  condition precedent to the giving of consent  aforesaidby the appropriate Government is that the Government has  tobe  satisfied on the report of the enquiry envisaged  by  s.5A(2) or by enquiry held under s. 40 itself that the purposeof  the acquisition is ;to obtain land for the	erection  ofdwelling house-, for workmen employed by the Company or	 forthe  provision of amenities directly connected therewith  orthat such acquisition is needed for the construction of somework  which is likely to prove useful to the  public.	Whenthe Government is satisfied as to the purposes aforesaid  ofthe  acquisition  in question,	the  appropriate  Governmentshall  require	the  Company  to  enter	 into  an  agreementproviding for the payment to the Government (1) of the	costof the acquisition, (2) on such payment, the transfer of theland  to  the Company and (3) the terms on  which  the	landshall  be  held by the Company.	 The agreement has  also  tomake  provision for the time within which the conditions  onwhich  and  the	 manner	 in which  the	dwelling  houses  oramenities shall be erected or provided and in the case of  aconstruction of any other kind of work the time within whichand  the conditions on which the work shall be executed	 andmaintained  and	 the  terms on which  the  public  shall  beentitled to use the work.Such are the relevant provisions of the Act that we have  toconsider   with	  reference   to   the	 question   of	 theconstitutionality  of the land acquisition  proceedings	 nowimpugned.  The first ground of attack is based on Art. 31(2)of  the Constitution.  The provisions of Art. 31(2) make  itclear beyond all controversy that in order that property maybe  compulsorily  acquired, the acquisition must  be  for  apublic	purpose and by authority of law.  But Art.  31(5)(a)lays  down  that  nothing  in  cl.  (2)	 shall	affect	 theprovisions of any existing law other than a law to which theprovisions  of cl. (6) applies (and the Act is	obviously  alaw  to	 which	the provisions of cl.  (6)  do	not  apply).Therefore  even	 if the Act contemplated acquisition  for  acompany	 which	may or may not be for a public	purpose,  itwould  be  saved by Art. 31(5)(a) as an existing  law.	(SeeLilavati  Bai v. State of Bombay (1)).	Further,  though  itmay(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 721.137appear	on the words of the Act contained in Part 11,  whichcontains  the operative portions of the proceedings  leadingup  to acquisition by the Collector that acquisition  for  aCompany	 may  or  may  not be  for  a  public  purpose,	 theprovisions  of Part VII make it clear that  the	 appropriateGovernment  cannot permit  the bringing	 into  operation theeffective  machinery  of the Act unless it is  satisfied  asaforesaid,  namely,  that the purpose of acquisition  is  toenable	the  Company to erect dwelling	houses	for  workmenemployed  by it or for the provision of	 amenities  directlyconnected  with the Company or that the land is	 needed	 forconstruction of some work of public utility.  These require-ments indicate that the acquisition for a Company also is insubstance  for	a public purpose inasmuch as  it  cannot  beseriously  contended that constructing dwelling houses,	 andproviding amenities for the benefit of the workmen  employedby it and construction of some work of public utility do notserve  a  public  purpose.   It is  not	 necessary  for	 thepurposes  of  this  case to go	into  the  question  whetheracquisition for a Company, even apart from the provisions ofs.  40, will be for a public purpose, or  justifiable  underthe  provisions of the Act, even on the assumption  that  itwill  not serve a public purpose.  The facts of the  presentcase  have  not been investigated, as this Court  was  movedwhen  only  a notification under s. 4 of the  Act  had	beenissued;	 and the purpose of the acquisition in question	 wasstill  at the enquiry stage.  By s. 38A, which was  insertedby the amending Act of 1933, it has been made clear that  anindustrial concern not being a Company, ordinarily employingnot  less than 100 workmen, may also take the  advantage  ofland acquisition proceedings if the purpose of the  acquisi-tion  is the same as is contemplated by s. 40 in respect  ofCompanies.  It has been recognised by this Court in the caseof  The State of Bombay v Bhanji Munji and Another (1)	thatproviding housing accommodation to the homeless is a  publicpurpose.  In an industrial concern employing a large  numberof workmen away(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 777-18138from their homes it is a social necessity that there  shouldbe proper housing accommodation available for such  workmen.Where  a  large section of the community is  concerned,	 itswelfare	 is  a matter of public concern.   Similarly,  if  aCompany	 is generous enough to erect a hospital or a  publicreading room and library or an educational institution	opento the public, it cannot be doubted that the work is one  ofpublic	utility and comes within the provisions of the	Act.We  are not in possession of all the relevant facts  in	 thepresent	 case as to the exact purpose for which the land  issought	to be acquired.	 That investigation was in  progresswhen the petitioner moved this Court.  Hence, the contentionraised on behalf of the respondents that the application  ispremature is not wholly devoid of merit.But  the  main	attack	on  the	 constitutionality  of	 theproceedings  in	 question was based  upon  the	notificationunder s. 4, which is in these terms" Ex.  " A ".NOTIFICATIONREVENUE DEPARTMENT.Sachivalaya, Bombay, 3rd April, 1959.LAND ACQUISITION ACT, 1894 (1 of 1894).District Thana.No. LTH. 15-59/42051-H-Whereas it appears to the  Governmentof  Bombay that the lands specified in the  schedule  heretoare  likely  to be needed for the purposes of  the  Company,viz., for factory buildings, etc., of M/s.  Mukund Iron	 andSteel  Works Limited, Bombay.  It is hereby  notified  underthe  provisions	 of section 4 of the Land  Acquisition	Act,1894  (I  of  1894), that the said lands are  likely  to  beneeded for the purpose specified above.All  persons interested in the said lands are hereby  warnednot  to	 obstructor interfere with any	surveyors  or  otherpersons employed upon the said lands for the purpose of	 thesaid  acquisition.   Any contracts for the disposal  of	 thesaid lands by sale, lease, mortgage, assignment, exchange orotherwise,  or	any  outlay or	improvements  made  therein,without the sanction of the Collector after the date of thisnotification will,139under section 24 (seventhly) of the said Act, be disregardedby the officer assessing compensation for such parts of	 thesaid lands as may be finally acquired.If the Government of Bombay is satisfied that the said landsare  needed for the aforesaid purpose, a final	notificationto that effect under s. 6 of the said Act will be  publishedin  the	 Bombay Government Gazette in due  course.   If	 theacquisition is abandoned wholly or in part, the fact will beduly notified in the Bombay Government Gazette.Under  clause (c) of section 3 of the Land Acquisition	Act,1894,  the  Government of Bombay is pleased to	appoint	 theSpecial	 Land  Acquisition Officer, Thana,  to	perform	 thefunctions  of a Collector under section 5-A of the said	 Actin respect of the said lands."It  is argued that in terms the notification does not  statethat the land sought to be acquired was needed for a  publicpurpose.  In our opinion, it is not absolutely necessary  tothe  validity of the land acquisition proceedings that	thatstatement  should find a place in the notification  actuallyissued.	  The requirements of the law will be satisfied	 if,in  substance,	it  is	found  on  investigation,  and	 theappropriate  Government	 is  satisfied as a  result  of	 theinvestigation  that the land was needed for the purposes  ofthe  Company, which would amount to a public  purpose  underPart VII, as already indicated.	 See in this connection	 TheState  of Bombay v. Bhanji Munji and Another (1).   In	thatcase  the question was whether the Bombay  Land	 RequisitionAct (Bombay Act XXXIII of 1948) was invalid inasmuch as	 thepurpose for the requisition was not in express terms  statedto  be a public purpose.  This Court laid it down  that	 thestatute	 was not invalid for that reason provided that	fromthe  whole  tenor  and intendment of the  Act  it  could  begathered  that	the  property was acquired  either  for	 thepurpose of the State or for any public purpose.It  is	further	 argued that s. 4(1) of the  Act  had  deli-berately  omitted the words " for a Company "  and  insistedupon  a public purpose.	 The absence from  the	notificationunder s. 4 aforesaid of those words,(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R- 777.140namely, for a public purpose, are fatal to the	proceedings.The purpose if the notification under s. 4 is to carry on  apreliminary  investigation with a view to finding out  afternecessary  survey and taking of levels, and,  if  necessary,digging	 or  boring into the sub-soil whether the  land	 wasadapted	 for  the  purpose for which it	 was  sought  to  beacquired.  It is only under s. 6 that a firm declaration hasto  be made by Government that land with proper	 descriptionand  area  so as to be identifiable is needed for  a  publicpurpose or for a Company.  What was a mere proposal under s.4  becomes the subject matter of a definite  proceeding	 foracquisition under the Act.  Hence, it is not correct to	 saythat  any defect in the notification under s. 4 is fatal  tothe  validity  of  the proceedings,  particularly  when	 theacquisition  is	 for a Company and the purpose"" has  to  beinvestigated  under  s. 5A or s. 40  necessarily  after	 thenotification under s. 4 of the Act.The other attack under Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution  isequally	 futile	 in view of the decisions of this  Court  inState of Bombay v. Bhanji Munji and Another (1) and LilavatiBai v. State of Bombay (2).  Nothing was said with referenceto  the	 provisions of Art. 14 of the  Constitution,  thoughthat Article has been referred to in the grounds in  supportof the writ petition.For the reasons given above, this petition must be dismissedwith costs to the contesting parties.				     Petition dismissed.(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 777.(2) [1957] S.C.R. 721.141