PETITIONER:PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK Ltd.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SRI RAM KANWAR, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL,DELHI.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/12/1956BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1957 AIR  276		  1957 SCR  220ACT:Industrial Dispute-Travelling and halting allowances to	 theworkers'  representatives-Order	 of the	 Tribunal  directingemployer  Payment  of  such  expenses  pending	adjudicationproceedings--jurisdiction   -Practice  of   the	  industrialCourts-Costs--Discretion    of	 the,	 Tribunal-IndustrialDisputes Act 1947 (XIV Of 1947), s. 11(3) (7)-Code of  CivilProcedure. (Act V of 1908), s. 35.HEADNOTE:Sub-section  (7)  Of s. ii of the Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947, as inserted by Act 48 of 1950, provides: " Subject  tothe rules made under this Act, the costs of, and  incidentalto,  any  proceeding  before  a Tribunal  shall	 be  in	 thediscretion  of	that Tribunal, and the Tribunal	 shall	havefull  power to determine by and to whom and to	what  extentand subject to what conditions, if any, such,			    221costs  are to be paid and to give all  necessary  directionsfor   the  purposes  aforesaid,	 and  such  costs  may,	  onapplication made to it by the person entitled, be  recoveredas  arrears  of land revenue or as a public  demand  by	 theappropriate Government. t.During the pendency of the proceedings before the IndustrialTribunal  for  the  adjudication of a  dispute	between	 theappellant Bank and its workman, an application	was made  byone  of the' representatives of the, workmen  praying  interalia that the appellant should be ordered to pay  travellingand  halting   allowances  for the  representatives  of	 thevarious	 Unions coming from different, stations	 other	than'Delhi	to attend the hearing before the Tribunal at  Delhi,on the ground that the appellant had branches all over Indiaand  that  there 'Were several Unions of. its  employees  atthose  branches	 who  were,  involved  in  the	dispute	  inquestion.   The Tribunal while conceding that there  was  noprovision  of law in support of the claim, made by the	res-pondents nevertheless made the order relying on the  generalpractice of the Industrial.  Courts.  The appellant appealedby  special  leave and contended that the order	 was  whollywithout	  jurisdiction	and  was  also	unjust,	 while	 therespondents supported the order relying on s. II (7) Of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947:Held,	that   the  order  of  the  Tribunal   was   withoutjurisdiction and could not be- supported either on the basisof  the	 general practice of the Industrial Courts  or	withreference to the provisions of s. II (7) Of the Act, because(1)  there  was	 no uniform or consistent  practice  in	 thematter	and  even  if there was any such  practice,  it	 wasneither warranted by law nor by the principles of reason andjustice	 ; (2) on a proper construction' of the	 sub-sectionthere was no power in the Tribunal to direct the payment  ofthe  costs  of	a  party in  advance  by  the  other  party,irrespective of the final result of the proceeding.The  discretion which is given to a Tribunal under s.  II(7)of  the Act is a judicial discretion and must be  exercised.according to the rules of reason and justice, not by chance.or  caprice  or	 private opinion or some  fanciful  idea  ofbenevolence or sympathy.jeevan	Textile Mills, Hyderabad (Deccan) v. Their  Workmen,(1956) I L.L.J. 423- approved.Certain Banking Companies v. Their Workmen, (1952) 2 L.L.J.54, in so far as it decided that the :Tribunal had power andjurisdiction under s. I 1(7) of the Act to direct the  Banksto meet the expenses of the workmen in a pending proceeding,disapprovedJUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION : Civil' Appeal	No.  134  of1955.Appeal by -special leave from the order dated April 17,1954,of,  Sri Ram Kanwar, Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, made on  anapplication filed, on April 17, 1954.222Ram Lal Anand and Naunit Lal, for the appellant. Y. Kumar, for respondent No. 13.1956.  December 20.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS  J.-The  Punjab  National:	 Bank  Ltd.  is	 theappellant before us.  Shorn of all details not necessary forour  purpose,  the facts are these.  By its  Order  No.	 LR-100(98)	 dated September 2, 1953, the Government, of  India,Ministry  of Labour, appointed Shri Ram	 Kanwar,  respondentNo. 1, as the Industrial Tribunal for the adjudication of  adispute	 which	had  arisen between the	 appellant  and	 itsworkmen in respect--of the following matter:"Absorption of Bharat Bank employees in the Punjab  NationalBank Ltd., and their service conditions."On  April  17, 1954, in the course  of	certain	 preliminaryproceedings  before  respondent No. 1, -an  application	 wasmade  on  behalf  of  the All  India  Punjab  National	BankEmployees' Federation, in which it was stated that a  numberof  other Unions Were involved in the dispute  in  question,because the appellant had branches all over India and  therewere several Unions of its employees at those branches.	  Itwas  further  stated in the application that some  of  thoseUnions	had submitted their statements when the	 dispute  inquestion  was referred to the Industrial Tribunal ,  Bombay,with  Shri  Panchapagesa  Shastri as  its  sole	 member	 andChairman;  that Tribunal did not, however, function as	ShriPanchapagesa  Shastri was appointed a member of	 the  LabourApllate	 Tribunal  of India.  Two substantial  prayers	weremade in the application of April 17, 1954: one was that	 duepublicity of the adjudication proceedings should be given byissuing	 notices to all those Unions to participate  in	 theproceedings, and the second prayer was that an order  shouldbe  made  directing  the appellant  to	pay  travelling	 andhalting	 allowances  to the representatives of	the  variousUnions	 so   as  to  enable  the  latter  to	send   theirrepresentatives to Delhi, the place where the.			    223adjudication  proceedings were pending.	 A list of  fourteenUnions	 and   organisations  was  given  along	  with	 theapplication,  with the number of representatives which	eachUnion or Organisation wished, send.In the present appeal we are concerned only with the  secondprayer	made  in the aforesaid application,, and  the  orderwhich  respondent  No. I made with regard to  that,  prayer,being the order impugned before us, was in these terms:"  The	management  objects to the grant of  any  T.  A.  orhalting allowance to the representatives of the Unions.	  Itis,  no doubt, correct that there is no pro-, vision of	 lawon  this  point in favour of the  representatives,  but	 thegeneral practice of various Tribunals has all along been  toallow  reasonable  T.  A.  and	halting	 allowance  to	 therepresentatives	 of the Unions, specially in  Banks'  cases.It  is, therefore, ordered that the representatives  of	 theUnions, who put in appearance in the Tribunal from  stationsoutside	 Delhi,	 shall be paid 2 1/2  second  class  railwayfares  to and from Delhi, plus Rs. 10/- per day	 as  haltingallowance, by the management of the Bank.The Bank is also requested to direct its respective branchesto  pay travelling and halting allowances in advance to	 theemployees who intend to come to Court. as representatives."It  may be stated here that out of the fourteen	 Unions	 andorganisations which wanted to send their representatives  totake  part in the adjudication proceedings, two	 have  theiroffices in Delhi.  Respondent No. 1 directed the payment  oftravelling and halting allowances to the representatives  ofthe remaining twelve Unions and organisations and fixed	 thenumber	of  representatives  to be  sent by  each  Union  ororganisation.The  plea  of  the appellant was that the  order  passed  byrespondent  No.	 I was wholly without jurisdiction  and	 wasalso unjust, involving as it did an expenditure of not	lessthan Rs. 2,500/- for each day of hearing in224the 'Courts of the, proceedings before respondent No. 1.  Onthat plea the appellant moved the Punjab High Court for	 theissue of 'a writ of certiorari - or such other writ as mightbe  appropriate	 for the purpose of quashing  the  order  ofrespondent No. 1. The Punjab High Court, however,  dismissedthe  petition of the appellant, in limine on May  14,  1954.The  appellant'	 then asked for and obtained  special  leavefrom this Court on October 18, 1954. The   question	 for  decision is a  very  short  one.	 Therespondents, appearing before us have sought to support	 theimpugned  order on the strength of the provisions of  sub-a.(7)  of s. 11 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947  (XIV  of1947),	hereinafter referred to as the Act That	 sub-sectionwhich  was  added  by Act 48 of 1950  and,  which  we  shallpresently  read, lays down, inter alia, that the  costs	 of,and incidental to, any proceeding before a Tribunal shall bein  the discretion of that Tribunal, and the Tribunal  shallhave  full  power to determine by and to whom  and  to	whatextent	and subject to what -conditions, if any, such  costsare to be paid and to give all necessary directions for	 thepurposes aforesaid.  The question is whether respondent	 No.I  had	power, in the exercise of his discretion  under	 theprovisions of sub-s. (7) of s. 11, to direct the payment  ofcosts in advance by one of the parties to the dispute to theother parties in a pending proceeding, irrespective 'of	 thefinal result of that proceeding.In  our	 opinion, the question admits of  only	one  answer.Sub-section (3) of s. 11 enumerates certain powers vested ina  Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure,  and	saysthat  every  Board, Court and Tribunal under the  Act  shallhave  those powers; the last enumerated power is in  generalterms,	being  respect	of  such other	matters	 as  may  beprescribed.   No  rules made under the Act  bearing  on	 thequestion of costs have been brought to our notice; there re,all  that can be said, with regard to the effect  of  sub-s.(3)  of s. II, is that except the  enumerated powers,  otherpowers	vested	in a Civil Court under the Code,  of,  CivilProcedure have not been given to the Board,			    225Court or Tribunal under the Act.  The Act however,  containsa separate provision in the matter of costs and that is sub-s. (7) of s. 11.  That sub-section reads (we are quoting  itas  it stood at the relevant time prior to the amendment  of1956):"  Subject to the rules made under this Act, the  costs	 of,and incidental to, any proceeding before a Tribunal shall bein  the discretion of that Tribunal, and the Tribunal  shallhave  full  power to determine by and to whom  and  to	whatextent	and subject to what conditions, if any,	 such  costsare to be paid, and to give all necessary directions for thepurposes aforesaid, and such costs may, on application	madeto  it	by the person entitled, be recovered as	 arrears  ofland  revenue  or  as a public	demand	by  the	 appropriateGovernment."A  comparison of the sub-section with s. 35 of the  Code  ofCivil  Procedure  shows	 that the sub-section  is  in  termssimilar	 to  those of s. 35 of the Code of  Civil  Procedureexcept	for the' concluding portion of the subsection  whichrelates	 to  the  recovery  of costs  as  arrears  of-	landrevenue.   There is also another difference in that  sub-ss.(2)  and (3) of s. 35 of the Code of Civil Procedure do	 notfind  place  in	 the Act.  On a plain reading  of  the	sub-section,  it is manifest that (1) the expression " costs  ofany  proceeding	 " means costs of the entire  proceeding  asdetermined  on	its conclusion and not costs  in  a  pendingproceeding,  nor costs to be incurred in future by a  party;and (2) the expression " costs" incidental to any proceeding" similarly means costs of interlocutory applications  etc.-such   costs  as  have	been  determined  thereon,  at	 theconclusion  of the hearing.  Neither of the two	 expressionshas  any  reference, to costs payable in advance or  to	 be-incurred  in  future by a party; far less do they  refer  tohalting and travelling allowances to be incurred by a  partywhile attending the Court on his own behalf.  Respondent No.1 correctly appreciated the legal position, and said I	thatthere  was no provision of law in support of the claim	madeby29226the  respondents.   He	relied,	 however,  on  the   generalpractice of Industrial Courts, particularly in Banks' cases.We  doubt  it  there  was any  such  general  or  consistentpractice;  nor	do we think that such practice, if  any,  islegally justified.  But we shall advert to this matter	whenconsidering such of the decisions of Industrial Tribunals ashave been placed before us.Learned	 counsel  for  the respondents has  -not  relied  onpractice,  but	on  the terms of  the  subsection.   He	 hassubmitted that the concluding portion of, the sub-;  sectionwhich  states that " such costs may, on application made  toit  by the person entitled, be recovered as arrears of	landrevenue or as a public demand by the appropriate  Government"  shows that costs may be granted in advance in  a  pendingproceeding.   His, argument -has proceeded on  these  lines:firstly,  he  has  submitted  that  an	Industrial  Tribunalbecomes	 functus officio with the submission of the  award.;second the concluding portion of the. sub-section shows thatan  application	 for recovery of costs can be made to  it  "that is, the Tribunal); therefore, the , application must bemade before the Tribunal becomes functus officio; that	is,.at  a stage when the proceedings is still pending.   In	 ouropinion, this argument is wholly fallacious and proceeds  ona  misreading of the sub-section.  The expression " it "  inthe  concluding	 portion of the sub-section  refers  to	 theappropriate,  Government. and not to the Tribunal; thus	 thevery basis of the argument disappears and it is	 unnecessaryto consider if the Tribunal becomes functus Officio with thesubmission  of its award-& proposition regarding  which	 we-express no opinion.It is not disputed that sub-s. (7) of s. 11 of the Act givesa  discretion  to  the Tribunal, and it has  full  power  todetermine by and, to whom and to what extent and subject  towhat  conditions, if any, the costs are to be paid.   It  isclear, however, that the discretion is a jusicial discretionand must be exercised according to the rules. of reason	 andjustice--not by chance or caprice or private opinion or somefanciful			    227idea  of  benevolence  or sympathy.  It is  a,	negation  ofjustice and reason to direct the appellant to pay in advancethe  costs  of	the respondents irrespective  of  the  finalresult	of the proceeding.  The general rule is	 that  costsfollow	the  event  unless  the	 Court,	 for  good  reasons,otherwise orders.  Respondent No. I gave no reasons for	 hisorder  except that of practice---a practice, assuming  therebe  any such practice, which is neither legal nor just.	  Itmay  be	 conceded  that the jurisdiction  of  an  IndustrialTribunal  is  not  invoked  for	 the  enforcement  of	merecontractual  rights  and liabilities of the parties  to	 thedispute	 referred  to  the Tribunal  for  adjudication;	 itsjurisdiction in the matter of adjudication of an  industrialdispute is wider and more flexible.  All the same, it is notan  arbitrary jurisdiction; it may be readily conceded	thatan  employee  is  as  much entitled to a  fair	deal  as  anemployer  and  he must be protected from  victimisation	 andunfair labour practice, but I social justice' does not	meanthat   reason  and  fairness  must  always  'yield  to	 theconvenience  of a party-convenience of the employee  at	 thecost  of  the  employer as in  this  cases  an	adjudicationproceeding.   Such one-sided or partial view is really	nextof  kin to caprice or humour.  Lord Halsbury L. C.  put	 thematter	in  characteristically forceful	 language  when,  hesaid:  "......	'discretion'  means when  it  is  said	thatsomething  is  to  be  done within  the	 discretion  of	 theauthorities  that ,something is to be done according to	 therules  of  reason  and justice,	 not  according	 to  privateopinion: Rooke's Case (1); according to law, and not humour.It  is to be, not arbitrary, vague, and fanciful, but  legaland regular." (Susannah Sharp v. Wakefield) (2).There  are special cases where in a pending proceeding	somecosts  may have to be borne by a party to a litigation;	 forexample,  sub-r.  (4)  of r. 4 of 0. XXXII,  Code  of  CivilProcedure, says that where there is no other person fit	 andwilling	 to  act as guardian of a minor for  the  suit,	 theCourt  may appoint any of its officers to be such  guardian,and may. direct that the(t) 5 Rep. 100,a.(2) [1891] A.C. 173. 179.228costs  to be incurred by such officer in the performance  ofhis  duties  as such guardian shall be borne either  by	 theparties	 or by any one or more of the parties to the  -suit.Section	 35  of	 the  Code  is	not  only  subject  to	suchconditions and limitations as may be prescribed, but is alsosubject	 to the provisions of any law for the time being  inforce.	 Under	the  Matrimonial  Causes  Rules,  1950,	 thepractice  in  English Courts is that after  the	 registrar'scertificate  for trial has been granted, or, with leave,  atan  earlier stage of 'the cause, a wife who is a  petitionerand has asked for costs or who has filed an answer may applyfor  security for her costs of the cause up to the  hearing,and of and incidental to the hearing (see Halsbury's Laws ofEngland, 3rd Ed., Vol. 12, para. 765 at p. 358).  When	suchsecurity  is ordered, unless the husband elects to  pay	 theamount	into  the registry and gives notice  to	 the  wife'ssolicitor, a bond is required from him.	 Such cases stand ona special footing and are governed by special statutory pro-visions.   They have no application in the present case	 andafford no justification for the order impugned before us.We  now	 turn  to the question of  practice  in	 the  LabourCourts.	 The earliest decision which has been brought to ournotice is Kirloskar Brothers Ltd. v. Their Workmen(1).	Thatwas a case in which one of the demands for adjudication	 wasthe demand for travelling and other expenses of the  workersrepresentatives, when such representatives were required  to-go  out at the instance, of any duly constituted  authorityor  Court  in  respect of any  industrial  matter.   It	 wasobserved: " The demand according to the company amounted  tofinancing the administration of the Union and was  thereforeobjectionable even on psychological grounds." The:  Tribunaldirected  that	the;  travelling and other  expenses  to  beincurred, in connection with the Union work must be paid outof  the Union funds and the employer--could not be  requiredto contribute the sum.(1)  [1951] 2 L.L.J. 557.229In  the well-known case, Certain Banking Companies V.  TheirWorkmen	 (1),  the  question  of  facilities  for  effectiverepresentation of their cases on behalf of the employees wasraised	and considered at -some length.	 The decision  givenwas that the Tribunal had power and jurisdiction, under sub-s. (7) of s. 11 of the Act, to direct the Banks to meet	 thereasonable  expenses of the workmen in a pending  proceedingin  order  to  ensure a fair  and  effective  hearing.	 Thegrounds on which the decision was based were these: (1)	 theBanks  were well organised and their managements we're	-in.possess-ion  of resources; (2) the adjudication by a  IabourCourt  or Industrial Tribunal was a compulsory	adjudicationin the interests of the public, and as disputes relating  toBanking	 companies,  with establishments, in more  than	 oneState,	were  referred	to  the	 Tribunal  by  the   CentralGovernment,  the circumstance that various workmen  residingin   various   States  were  compelled	to  submit   to	  anadjudication  by  a.  Central  Tribunal	 was  sufficient  tojustify	 an  order for the payment of their  travelling	 andhalting	 allowances;  (3) there was nothing in the  Act.  topreclude  the  exercise, of such power on the  part  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunal  as  was  required	 to  carry  on	 thefundamental object of ensuring a proper hearing for the two,parties	 to the dispute, and the weaker party,, namely,	 thecomparatively  unorganised, numerous and  scattered  workmenemployed in different branches, needed assistance to presenttheir  case  ; (4) prior to the addition of, sub-s.  (7)  ofs.11  in  1950, various Industrial Tribunals  used  to	passsimilar orders and it was in recognition of the necessity ofsuch orders that the statutory provision in the	 sub-sectionwas  made;  and	 (5)  the  principles  of  natural  justice.required  that	a real opportunity should be  given  to	 theworkmen to. present their case by asking the employer to payfor  their  expenses.	In  our	 opinion,  not	one  of	 theaforesaid grounds is really sustainable, either in law or onthe  principle of justice, equity and good conscience.,	 Thecircumstance  that  the Banks are well organised  and  theirmanagements are in possession of(1)  [1952] 2 L.L.J. 54.230resources  cannot be a ground for making -them pay  for	 theexpenses of the other party; if that is the principle to  beapplied, then in every case the richer party must be made topay  the expenses of- the weaker party, irrespective of	 theultimate result of the dispute ; even in a dispute raised bythe workmen, which may be ultimately found to be -devoid  ofall merit, the employer must be made to finance the workmen.Such  a	 principle  will  merely  encourage  frivolous	 andunsubstantial  disputes and will run counter to	 the  objectand purposes of the Act, namely; the promotion of industrialpeace	  in  the  interests  of the  general  public.	 Thesecond	    circumstance  that the adjudication	 is  a	com-pulsory	 adjudication applies equally to both parties.If  itis  a  compulsory  -adjudication for the  employees,  it  isequally	 so 1 or the employer and we can see no	 reason	 whythat circumstance should involve the imposition of a penaltyon  one of the parties to the dispute and not on the  other.We,  have already pointed out that on a proper	constructionof  the	 sub-section there is no power in  the	Tribunal  todirect the Repayment of the costs of a party,, in advance bythe  other party, irrespective of the final result,  of	 theproceeding,  and  the view expressed by	 the  Bank  DisputesTribunal as to the construction of the relevant	 sub-sectionis manifestly erroneous; nor are we satisfied, that prior tothe addition of the sub-section, there was any consistent oruniform	 practice  in  the  matter, so as  to  lead  to	 theinference  that	 the  provisions  of  the  sub-section	gavestatutory recognition to; the practice.' It is difficult  tounderstand  how	 the principles of natural  justice  can  beinvoked	 in aid of an order which penalises one party  to  adispute by making it pay for the costs of the other party inadvance,  irrespective of the result of the  proceding.	  Wecan  only say that such an order is neither natural nor	 hasany element of justice in it.In   a	 later	decision,   Asssociated	  Cement   CompaniesLtd.,Dwarka Cement  Works,  Dwarka V. Workmen Employed underit(1),it   Was	 observed:  "	It,therefore,	the   Unionsrepresentatives thought it proper -to attend on the(1)  [l953] I.C.R. BOM. 292 at 307.-			    231various	 dates	before, the Tribunal, it is  the  Union	 whoshould	bear the costs." In a still later  decision,  JeevanTextile	 Mills, Hyderabad (Deccan) v. Their Workmen(1),	 thequestion  was again considered at some length.	With  regardto sub-s. (7) of s. II it was observed: " Although s. 11 (7)is  worded  in a very wide way and the power  to  order	 thepayment of costs granted under it to industrial tribunals ismade comprehensive and is  not even fettered by a  provisionlike s. 35 (2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, requiring thetribunal  to state its reasons if costs are not	 ordered  tofollow the event, orders for costs can only be made, even byindustrial tribunals, on well-recognised principles and	 noton  any	 abstract  ideas as to what,  irrespective  of	suchprinciples,  should  be	 considered  as	 desirable  in	 anyparticular  case: vide United Commercial Bank Case(2)".	  Weare in agreement with the view expressed above.It  would appear from what we have stated above	 that  therewas no uniform or consistent practice in the matter, and  weare further of the view that if there was any such practice,it  was	 neither warranted by law nor by the  principles  ofreason and justice.  In Ex parte Snow In re Sherwell(3),  anapplication  was made to review a taxation of costs and	 theappellant,  who	 was  a	 Barrister-at-law  and	resided	  atLiverpool, claimed his travelling expenses from Liverpool toLondon	and  back,  on the ground that by  arguing  his	 ownappeal he had saved the expense of engaging counsel to whichhe  would  have been entitled.	The claim was  dismissed  as"preposterous and unheard ofAs  we	began, so we -end: there is only one answer  to	 thequestion  and  that answer is that respondent No. I  had  nopower, in the exercise of his discretion under sub-s. (7) ofsection II of the Act, to direct the appellant in this -caseto  pay	 the  travelling  and  halting	allowances  of	 therepresentatives	 of the Unions in a pending  proceeding	 andirrespective of its final(1)  [1956] 1 L.L.J. 423.(2)  [1952],2 L.L. J. 1.(3) [1879] Weekly NoteS 22.232result.	 For the reasons given.	 this appeal is allowed withcosts,	and  the  costs	 must  be  paid	 by  the  contestingrespondents.   The order of respondent No. 1, so far  as  itrelates to the payment in a pending proceeding of travellingand halting allowances to the representatives of the variousUnions, must and is hereby, set aside.Appeal allowed.			    233