PETITIONER:PRANAB KUMAR MITRA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:03/10/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  144		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)  63 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC1530	 (11,12) RF	    1964 SC1645	 (2,9,14,15,16) RF	    1979 SC 745	 (72)ACT:       Criminal	 Revision-Death	 of  Petitioner	 Pending   hearing-       Application  by legal representative to be added	 as  party-       Power of High Court-if can consider legality of	conviction-       Code  of Criminal Procedure (Act V of 1898), ss.	 439,  435,       431.HEADNOTE:There  is  no provision in the Code  of	 Criminal  Procedurewhich  limits the wide discretionary power conferred on	 theHigh  Court  by	 s. 439- read with s. 435  Of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure to examine the correctness, legality  orpropriety  of  any finding, sentence or order passed  by  aninferior Court and, where it chooses to interfere either suomotu  or at the instance of a party, it has  thereunder	 thepower,	in the ends of justice, not only to bring the  legalrepresentative	of  a deceased party on record but  also  toconsider  the legality of the order of conviction even	whenthe   sentence	 inflicted  may	 be  a	composite   one	  ofimprisonment and fine.Imperatrix  v.	Dongaji Andaji, (1878) I.L.R.  2  Bom.	564,approved.In Ye Nabishah, (1894) I.L.R. 19 Bom. 714, considered.Consequently,  in a case where the accused  petitioner,	 whowas  convicted	under s. 420 Of the Indian  Penal  Code	 andsentenced  to  suffer one day's imprisonment,  which  reallymeant detention till the rising of the Court on the day	 theorder was pronounced, and to pay a fine of Rs. 500/- and  indefault to suffer rigorous imprisonment for six months, diedduring	the pendency of the revision case in the High  Courtand  his son applied to be substituted as a party  in  orderthat he could challenge the order of conviction and sentenceand the High Court, holding that the principle Of s. 431  ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure applied, added him as a partybut  refused  to  consider  the legality  of  the  order  ofconviction and reduced the sentence.Held,  that  the  High Court was in error  in  limiting	 itspowers under S. 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on theanalogy Of s. 431 of the Code, which in terms did not  applyto a revision case, and its decision must be set aside.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION Criminal Appeal No. 116  of1956.64Appeal from the Judgment and order dated December 22,  1955,of  the Calcutta High Court in Criminal Revision No. 714  of1955,  arising	out of the judgment and order dated  May  9,1955,  of  the	Court of the Additional	 Sessions  Judge  atAlipore in Criminal Appeal No. 97 of 1955.C.   P. Lal, for the appellant.H.   J. Umrigar and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents.1958.  October 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySINHA  J.-The  simple  question for  determination  in	thisappeal on a certificate of fitness granted by the High Courtof Judicature at Calcutta,' is whether a pending applicationin  revision  made  under s. 439 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  (to	be  referred to hereinafter  as	 the  Code),finally	 abates on the death of the petitioner in  the	HighCourt, and if so, to what extent.It is not necessary to set out, in detail, the facts of	 theprosecution case and the evidence upon which the findings ofthe  courts  of fact were based, except to  state  that	 theappellant's  father, Sailendra Sundar Mitra, was  tried	 andconvicted  by a MaListrate of the first class,	at  Alipore.The  Appellate	-Court	has set out  the  case	against	 theaccused in these words: " The charge against the accused wasthat  on  the  2nd  December, 1946,  at	 Garden	 Reach,	 theaccused,  being an employee as Establishment Clerk of B.  C.II  Section in the Traffic Accounts Office of B. N.  Railway(now  Eastern  Railway),  cheated the  said  B.	 N.  RailwayAdministration by dishonestly inducing it by means of  falserepresentation in the pay bill of the non-gazetted staff forNovember,  1946, to deliver to him Rs. 205-13-0 and  to	 oneSatish	Chandra	 Das  Gupta, a clerk in the said  B.  C.  11Section,  Rs.  33-4-0  in excess  of  legitimate  dues,	 andthereby	 committed an offence punishable under section	420,I.P.C."	 The learned trial Magistrate convicted the  accusedperson for cheating in respect of Rs. 205-13-0, but gave himthe benefit of the doubt in respect of the sum of Rs. 33-4-065claimed	 on behalf of another person, named  Satish  ChandraDas  Gupta.   He sentenced the accused to suffer  one  day'simprisonment  (really,	detention  till the  rising  of	 thecourt,	on the day the order was pronounced), and to  pay  afine of Rs. 500/-, and in default, to rigorous	imprisonmentfor  six  months, more.	 He also directed that	out  of	 thefine,  if  realised,  Rs. 333/- shall be paid  to  the	B.N.Railway	 Administration (now, the South Eastern Railway)  ascompensation,  by  his order dated February  11,  1955.	  Onappeal,	 the  learned Additional Sessions Judge	 at  Alipore(24,  Parganas),  after hearing the parties,  dismissed	 theappeal, and confirmed the orders of conviction and  sentencepassed	by  the learned trial Magistrate,  by  his  judgmentdated May 9, 1955.Being  aggrieved  by the judgment and orders of	 the  courtsbelow,	the  accused aforesaid moved the High Court  in	 itsrevisional jurisdiction, under s. 439 of the Code.  The HighCourt  issued  a  Rule	which  was  registered	as  CriminalRevision Case No. 714 of 1955, and stayed the realization ofthe  fine  pending  the hearing of  the	 Rule.	 During	 thependency  of the case in the High Court, the accused  persondied  on July 8, 1955, leaving him surviving his  widow	 andfive children, all of whom were minors except the appellant.The  appellant	made  an application on	 December  6,  1955,stating that he was one of the heirs of the deceased accused(petitioner  in the High Court), and that he was  interestedin   proceeding	 with  the  criminal  revision	 case,	 andchallenging  the  order of conviction and  sentence,  passedagainst his deceased father.  He, therefore, prayed that  hemight be added as a party to the Criminal Revision Case	 No.714  of 1955, so as to enable him to challenge the order  ofconviction  and sentence aforesaid.  This " application	 forsubstitution ", as the Division Bench of the High Court	 hascharacterized it, was heard, and. the Bench passed its orderon  the application on December 22, 1955, holding  that	 theprinciple  of  s.  431 of the Code, applied  to	 a  criminalrevisional  application	 even  when there  was	a  compositesentence but only in so far as the sentence of fine966was  concerned.	  The  application  for	 substitution	was,therefore,  allowed.   The High Court also  ruled  that	 theconviction could not be challenged inasmuch as the  sentencewas a composite one of imprisonment as	also fine, and that,therefore, the revisional application would survive only  tothe  limited extent whether the sentence of fine was  properor unduly severe.  The High Court, therefore, refused to  gointo  the merits of the conviction, and confined  itself  tothe question whether, in the circumstances of the case,	 thesentence of fine of Rs. 500/- was unduly severe.  In view ofthe fact that the defence of the accused person was that  hehad  over-charged on account of a mistake, and that  he	 wasprepared  to  refund  the  excess  amount,  the	 High  Courtdirected  that	the sentence of fine be reduced to  the	 sumcharged	 in excess, namely, Rs. 205/13/-.  It also  directedthat the whole of the amount of fine, if realized, shall  bepaid  to the B.N. Railway Administration (now South  EasternRailway).   Being dissatisfied with the aforesaid  order  ofthe  High  Court,  the appellant moved the  High  Court	 andobtained the necessary certificate of fitness from the	HighCourt.	 Hence, this appeal on a certificate under art.	 134(1) (c) of the Constitution, granted by the High Court.There  is no relevant provision in the Code, except  s.	 431which  is  the	last section in Chapter XXXI  of  the  Code,dealing with appeals, and is in these terms:-"431.	Every appeal under section 411A, subsection (2),  orsection 417 shall finally abate on the death of the accused,and every other appeal under this Chapter (except an  appealfrom a sentence of fine) shall finally abate on the death ofthe appellant."It is manifest that the section, in terms, applies. only  toappeals,  and lays down that an appeal against an  order  ofacquittal  passed  by  the High Court  in  exercise  of	 itsoriginal criminal jurisdiction (s. 411-A (2)), or an  appealto  the High Court from an order of acquittal passed by	 anycourt  other than the High Court, shall finally	 abate	uponthe death of the accused,67and all appeals under Chapter XXXI, except an appeal from  asentence  of fine, shall finally abate on the death  of	 theappellant.   The  first part of the section dealing,  as  itdoes,  with appeals against orders of acquittal,  naturally,provides that such appears must, necessarily, abate  becausethe accused person has passed beyond the jurisdiction of theCourt.	The second part of the section deals with appeals byconvicted  persons or by a person who has been	deprived  ofany  property, or who has been ordered to furnish  security,etc., and lays down that such appeals shall finally abate onthe death of the appellant except appeals from a sentence offine.  As in the instant case, we are not directly concernedwith the legal position as it may emerge on the death of theappellant or of an accused person as respondent, we need notgo into the question whether an appeal would abate if it  isfrom a conviction and sentence not only of fine but also  ofimprisonment though it may be till the rising of the  court.We  are	 here concerned with a case in which  the  convictedperson	had served out his nominal sentence of	imprisonment(assuming that it was a legal sentence of imprisonment), andhis  application  in  revision was pending  and	 was  mainlyconcerned  with	 challenging  the order	 of  conviction	 andsentence  of  fine, when the petitioner in  the	 High  Courtdied.	As  already indicated, s. 431, in  terms,  does	 notapply to such a case.The   case  has,  therefore,  to  be  determined  on   firstprinciples.  It appears that the Criminal Procedure Code  of1882  (Act  10 of 1882), for the first time,  introduced  s.431.   That  section  came up  for  consideration  before  aDivision  Bench	 of the Bombay High Court  in  its  criminalrevisional  jurisdiction in the case of In re Nabishab	(1).Shortly stated, the facts in that case were that two personshad been convicted of criminal breach of trust, and each onewas  sentenced	to one year's rigorous. imprisonment  and  afine  of Rs. 1,000.  Both the convicted persons appealed  tothe High Court.	 One of them died during the pendency of theappeal.	  The appeal of the surviving appellant was  allowedby the High Court,. and his Conviction(1)  (1894) I.L.R. 19 Bom. 714.68and  sentence  were  set  aside.   Thereupon,  one  of	 therelatives  of  the deceased appellant applied  to  the	HighCourt  in  its	revisional jurisdiction	 to  set  aside	 theconviction  and sentence passed against the dead   man,	 andfor a refund of the fine (which appears to have been  paid).It was held by the High Court, without discussing the  termsof  the	 section  and without giving any  reasons  for	thatconclusion,  that the appeal in respect of the dead man	 hadabated under s. 431 of the Code.  The High Court refused  todeal  with  the case in its revisional jurisdiction  on	 theground that the case depended upon appreciation of evidence.It  may	 be  that the High Court came  to  that	 conclusion.presumably  on	the  ground that the  appeal  was  not	onlyagainst	 a sentence of fine but also against  a	 substantivesentence of imprisonment.  Where a sentence both of fine andof imprisonment, is passed, and an appeal or an	 applicationin  revision is filed, the superior court may grant bail  ormay  not.  It may be that in a case where bail has not	beengranted,  the  convicted  person may  have  served  out	 hissubstantive  sentence of imprisonment, and by the  time	 hisappeal or application in revision comes up for hearing,	 thesubstantial question to be determined by the High Court	 (orthe  Court of Session where the appeal may be  pending),  isthe  legality,	correctness  or propriety of  the  order  ofconviction and the outstanding sentence of fine.  In such  acase,  it may be a debatable question whether the appeal  orthe.  application in revision has abated.  Such a  situationarose  in the case of Imperatrix v. Dongaji Andaji (1).	  Inthat case, the accused person was sentenced, on a charge  offorgery,  to four years rigorous imprisonment and a fine  ofRs.  1,000 by the Court of Session.  During the pendency  ofthe  appeal  in the High Court, the appellant, who  had	 notbeen released on bail, died in jail.  The matter was  placedbefore	a  Division  Bench  of	Melvill	 and  Kemball,	 JJ.Melvill, J., held that the appeal had abated on the death ofthe  appellant,	 and the functions of the High Court  as  anAppellate Court, ceased.  He also held that as there was no(1)  (1878) I.L.R. 2 Bom. 564.69error  of  law in the order of conviction, nor had  it	beenshown that the sentence was too severe, the High Court couldnot  exercise  its powers as a Court of	 Revision.   In	 thecourse	of  his	 judgment, he pointed  out  that  the  legalrepresentative,	 of  the deceased convicted  person  is,  nodoubt,	interested in procuring a reversal of a sentence  offine  or  of  forfeiture of property, but  as  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure, 1872 (Act X of 1872), did not confer anyright of appeal on the legal representative after the  deathof the convict, the appeal could not be heard and determinedon  merits.  Kemball, J., agreed with Melvill, J., that	 thelegal  representative  of  the deceased	 convict  could	 notprosecute  the appeal, but he did not agree with him in	 theview  that the appeal bad abated, and that the functions  ofthe  High Court as the Appellate Court,, came to an  end  onthe  death of the appellant.  He took the view -that as	 therecord	was  before  the Court, the Court  could  pass	suchorders in the appeal as it thought proper.  His view appearsto  have been that with the death of the  convicted  person,the  question of serving out the whole or a portion  of	 thesentence  of  imprisonment,  no more survived,	but  as	 theproperty of the deceased convict, in the hands of the  legalrepresentative,	 continued to be liable for the	 payment  ofthe  fine, if unpaid during the period provided by  law,  itwas  the  interest of the legal representative to  have	 thecase  considered  on  merits.  Ultimately, he  came  to	 theconclusion that there was no doubt that the High Court coulddispose	 of  the case as a Court of Revision,  but  he	alsothought	 that  the Court was bound to decide the case  as  aCourt of Appeal.  On this difference of opinion between	 thetwo  learned Judges, the matter was placed before  Westropp,C.  J.	The learned Chief Justice agreed with  Melvill,	 J.,that the Code had not made any provision for the continuanceof  an	appeal	by the legal representative  of	 a  deceasedconvict, nor did the High Court have the power to deal	withthe  appeal on the death of the convicted person.  He  basedhis conclusion substantially on the ground that the right toappeal or to continue an appeal already pending, is70given  by  Statute expressly or	 by  necessary	implication.This  view  now finds statutory recognition in s.  431.	  Healso held that though the appeal had abated, the High  Courthad  the  power	 to call for the  record  and  exercise	 itsrevisional  jurisdiction suo motu, but he did  ,not  expressany  opinion  whether in the case before the Court,  such  apower could be exercised.In  our opinion, in the absence of statutory provisions,  interms  applying to an application in revision, as there	 arethose  in  s. 431 in respect of criminal appeals,  the	HighCourt  has the power to pass such orders as to it  may	seemfit  and proper, in exercise of its revisional	jurisdictionvested	in  it	by  s. 439 of the Code.	  Indeed,  it  is  adiscretionary  power  which has to be exercised	 in  aid  ofjustice.   Whether or not the High Court will  exercise	 itsrevisional  jurisdiction in a given case, must	depend	uponthe  facts and circumstances of that case.   The  revisionalpowers of the High Court vested in it by s. 439 of the Code,read  with s. 435, do not create any right in the  litigant,but  only conserve the power of the High Court to  see	thatjustice	 is done in accordance with the recognized rules  ofCriminal  Jurisprudence,  and'	that  subordinate   criminalcourts	do  not exceed their jurisdiction,  or	abuse  theirpowers	vested in them by the Code.  On the other  hand,  asalready	 indicated, a right of appeal is a  statutory  rightwhich has got to be recognized by the courts, and the  rightto appeal, where one exists, cannot be denied in exercise ofthe  discretionary  power  even	 of  the  High	Court.	 TheLegislature has, therefore, specifically provided, by s. 431of  the Code, the rules governing the right of	substitutionin  case  of  death  of	 an  appellant,	 but  there  is	  nocorresponding  provision in Chapter XXXII, dealing with	 thequestion  of  abatement and the right of substitution  in  acriminal  revision.  We may assume that the Legislature	 wasaware of the decision of the Bombay High Court, referred  toabove, when it enacted s. 431 for the first time in the Codeof  1882.  If the Legislature intended that ail	 applicationin revision pending in a High Court, should be dealt with onthe same footing as a pending appeal, it would have  enactedaccordingly.71But in the absence of any such enactment, we may infer	thatthe power of revision vested in the High Court under ChapterXXXII  of  the	Code, was  left	 untouched-to  be  exercisedaccording to the exigencies of each case.  The High Court isnot bound to entertain an application in revision, or havingentertained one, to order substitution in every case.  It isnot  bound  the	 other	way,  namely,  to  treat  a  pendingapplication  in revision as having abated by reason  of	 thefact that there was a composite sentence of imprisonment andfine,  as some of the single Judge decisions  placed  beforeus,  would seem to indicate.  The High Court has  been	leftcomplete  discretion  to deal with a pending matter  on	 thedeath of the petitioner in accordance with the	requirementsof justice.  The petitioner in the High Court may have	beenan  accused person who has been convicted and sentenced,  orhe  may have been a complainant who may have  been  directedunder  s. 250 of the Code to pay compensation to an  accusedperson	upon his discharge or acquittal.  Whether it was  anaccused	 person	 or it was a complainant who has  moved	 theHigh Court in its revisional jurisdiction, if the High Courthas issued a Rule, that Rule has to be beard and  determinedin accordance with law, whether or not the petitioner in theHigh Court is alive or dead, or whether he is represented incourt  by a legal practitioner. In hearing  and	 determiningcases  under s. 439 of the Code, the High  Court  dischargesits statutory function of supervising the administration  ofjustice	 on  the criminal side.	 Hence,	 the  considerationsapplying  to  abatement of an appeal, may not apply  to	 thecase of revisional applications.  In our opinion, therefore,the  Bombay  majority decision (1), in the  absence  of	 anystatutory  provisions  in  respect  of	criminal  revisionalcases, lays down the correct approach.There  are  a number of decisions in the  books,  mostly  ofJudges	sitting singly, that though s. 431, in	terms,	doesnot apply to revisional applications, the principle of	thatsection applied to such cases.	It is not necessary to referto those cases specifically.  In view of the fact that	evenin the absence of any statutory(1)  (1878) I.L.R. 2 BOM. 564.72provisions,  we	 have held, in agreement with  the  decisionaforesaid of the Bombay High Court, that the High Court	 hasthe power to determine the case even after the death of	 theconvicted  person,  if	there was a sentence  of  fine	alsoimposed	 on him, because that sentence affects the  propertyof the deceased in the hands of his legal representative, itnow remains to consider whether the High Court war, right inlimiting its power of revision to the question of fine only-whether	 it was proper or excessive-without going  into	 themerits of the order of conviction.  Once it is held that theHigh Court's revisional jurisdiction is attracted to such  acase, it is difficult to limit the exercise of such a  powerin  the	 way the High Court has done.  Under s. 439  of	 theCode, the discretion is vested in the High Court to exercisesuch  of  the  powers  of an  Appellate	 Court,	 as  may  beattracted to the case, and it has also the power to  enhancea  sentence  subject  to the proviso that no  order  to	 theprejudice of an accused person, shall be made unless he	 hashad the opportunity of being heard.  In the instant case, weare  not  concerned  with the  question	 of  enhancement  ofsentence;  we are concerned with the question whether  thereis any provision in the Code, which limits the discretionarypower  of  the	High Court to  examine	the  "	correctness,legality  or propriety of any finding, sentence or order  "-(s. 435), passed by any inferior Court.	 On the death of theconvicted person, the question of his serving the whole or aportion	 of  his sentence of imprisonment, does	 not  arise.But  the  sentence  of fine still remains  to  be  examined-whether it was well founded in law.  This question cannot beeffectively gone into unless the order of conviction  itselfis  examined on its merits.  If the fact that the fine	willhave to be paid out of the estate of the deceased  appellantor petitioner in revision, is the ground for giving the heiror legal representative a right - to continue the appeal  ora  privilege  of maintaining or continuing a  revision,	 thesame   principle   should  entitle  him	 to   question	 thecorrectness of the conviction itself, for, if the convictionremains,  at least some fine, however nominal, will have  tobe paid by the heir or73the legal representative out of the estate of the  deceased.In  our opinion, therefore, where the High Court  thinks  itfit  and proper to entertain an application in	revision  orcalls  for the record suo motu, it has the power to  examinethe whole question of the correctness, propriety or legalityof   the  sentence  of	fine,  which  necessarily   involvesexamining the order of conviction itself from that point  ofview.For  the reasons aforesaid, we allow the appeal,  and  remitthe  case to the High Court to be dealt with  in  accordancewith law.				  Appeal allowed.