PETITIONER:RATAN RAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF BIHARDATE OF JUDGMENT:30/01/1956BENCH:ACT:Reference-jury	trial-judge  disagreeing with  the  verdict-Procedure-Duty of counsel-High Court-If can accept  majorityverdict	 without  considering  the  entire  evidence-SupremeCourt  If  should  adopt  the  Procedure--Code	of  CriminalProcedure (Act V of 1898), as amended by Act XXVI of 1955 s.307.HEADNOTE:The  appellants were charged under ss., 435 and 436  of	 theIndian	Penal Code and were tried by a jury, who returned  amajority  verdict of guilty.  The Assistant  Sessions  judgedisagreed with the said verdict and made a reference to	 theHigh Court.At  the	 hearing  of  the  reference  the  counsel  for	 theappellants  only contended that the charge to the  jury	 wasdefective, and did not place the entire evidence before	 thejudges,	 who  only  considered the  objections'	 urged,	 andnothing more, and held the35274reference to be incompetent and found the appellants  guiltyand convicted them.Held,  that  in	 a reference under s. 307  of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure it was the duty of counsel to place,	 and-it was incumbent on the High Court to consider, the  entireevidence and the charge as framed and placed before the juryand  to come to its own conclusion, after giving due  weightto  the	 opinion of the trial judge and the verdict  of	 thejury,  and to acquit or convict the accused of the  offencesof which the jury could have convicted or acquitted him.  Itwas  wrong  of	the' High Court	 to  pass  judgment  withoutconsidering the entire evidence.It  is	not  proper  for the  Supreme  Court  to  adopt	 theprocedure  of considering the entire evidence and come to  aconclusion which according to the provisions of s.307(3)  ofthe  Code of Criminal Procedure the High Court	should	havedone.Akhlakali  Hayatalli v. The State of Bombay,  (1954)  S.C.R.435  and Ramanugrah Singh v. The Emperor, A.I.R.  T946	P.C.151, referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL   APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.	 104of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and order'  datedSeptember 9, 1953, of the Patna High Court in Jury ReferenceNo. I of 1952 arising out of the ReferencE made on  February16,  1952,  by	the Assistant  Sessions	 Judge,	 2nd  Court,Chapra, in connection with Sessions Trial No. 81 of 1951.S.   P. Verma, for the appellants Nos. 2 and 3.B.   K. Saran and R. C. Prasad, for the respondent.1957.  January 30.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI  J.-The  appellants  Nos.  2 and  3,  who  are	 thesurviving  appellants  after the death of  appellant  No.  1during the pendency of this appeal, were charged with havingcommitted offences under ss. 435 and 436 of the Indian PenalCode  and were tried by the Second Assistant Sessions  Judgeof Saran, Chapra, with the aid of a jury.  The jury returneda  majority  verdict that both of them were  guilty  of	 theoffences under those sections.	The Assistant Sessions Judgedisagreed with the said verdict and made a reference to	 theHigh Court of Judicature at Patna,			    275under  s. 307 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.   The	saidreference was heard by a Division Bench of that High  Court.The   learned  judges  of  the	High  Court  overruled	 thecontentions  which were urged before them in regard  to	 thecharge to the jury being defective and further held that thereference  was, in the circumstances, not competent.   They,however, without anything more accepted the majority verdictand held the appellants guilty of the offences under ss. 435and  436 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to	 sixmonths' rigorous imprisonment each.  The appellants obtainedfrom  this Court special leave to appeal under Art.  136  ofthe Constitution and hence this appeal.The facts leading up to this appeal may be shortly stated asfollows:-There was a dispute between the parties as to titleto  plot No. 1100 of village Rampur, Tengrahi.	One  KailashRai  claimed to be the owner of -that plot and also  claimedto  be	in possession of a Palani standing in a	 portion  ofthat  plot  as also of a Punjaul, i.e., a  haystack  in	 itsvicinity.   There had been proceedings under s. 144  of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure in regard to this area leading upto  a title ,suit being T.S. No. 58/8 of 1948 /50  filed  byKailash Rai against the appellants in regard to the same.  Adecree	had been pawed on December 16, 1950, in	 that  titlesuit  dismissing  the claim of Kailash Rai.  An	 appeal	 hadbeen  filed  by	 Kailash Rai against that  decree  and	thatappeal was pending at the date of the occurrence.  On  March4, 1951, Kailash Rai was sitting in the Palani and at  about3  to  4 p.m. a mob consisting of about 100 to	125  personsincluding the appellants all armed with lathes, bhallas	 andpharsas	 came to the Palani and began to demolish the  same.Kailash	 Rai remonstrated and the deceased appellant No.  1,ordered that the Palai should be set on fire.  The appellantNo.  2 thereupon set fire to the Palani with a	match  stickand the appellant No. 3 set fire to the Punjaul.  The  firstinformation   report  of  this	occurrence  was	 lodged	  atGopalganj  Police  Station at 8 p.m. the  same	night.	 Theofficer	 in charge of Gopalganj Police Station	investigatedthe case and276challaned   the	  appellants  charging	them   with   havingcommitted,  offences  under ss. 435 and 436  of	 the  IndianPenal Code.The  Committing	 Court	found a prima facie  case  made	 outagainst	 the  appellants and sent them up for trial  by	 theAssistant  Sessions Judge, Second Court, Chapra,  who  triedthem  by  a jury.  The jury returned a majority	 verdict  ofguilty	against	 the  appellants.   The	 Assistant  SessionsJudge,	however,  disagreed  with that verdict	and  made  areference  to  the  High  Court stating	 in  the  letter  ofreference  that	 on  the evidence recorded  before  him	 theappellants  had	 been in possession of the  Palani  and	 thePunjaul but were dispossessed of the same some time prior tothe  passing  of the decree in the title  suit	on  December16,1950,  and were therefore justified in taking  steps	 forrecovery of possession thereof from Kailash Rai on March  4,195 1, and if in that process the appellants set fire to thePalani	and the Punjaul they were only destroying their	 ownproperty  and were not guilty of the offence  of  committingmischief  by  fire  as	alleged	 by  the  prosecution.	 TheAssistant Sessions Judge tried to analyse the working of theminds of the jury in arriving at the verdict which they	 didand  though  he	 agreed with the  alleged  finding  of	factreached	 by  the  jury in regard to the	 possession  of	 thePalani and the Punjaul, disagreed with the law as  allegedlyapplied	 by  the  jury	and  therefore	disagreed  with	 themajority verdict.When  the  reference was heard before the  High	 Court,	 thecounsel	 for the appellants only contended that	 the  chargeaddressed  by the Assistant Sessions Judge to the  jury	 wasdefective and he did not invite the High Court, as he shouldhave done, to consider the entire evidence and to acquit  orconvict	 the  appellants of the offences of which  the	jurycould have convicted them upon the charges framed and placedbefore	it, after giving due weight to the opinions  of	 thelearned	 Sessions Judge and the jury as required by  a.	 307(3)  of	 the Code of Criminal Procedure.   The	High  Court,therefore,  only  considered the objections which  had	beenurged by the learned counsel for the appellants before it inregard to the charge being defective and			    277overruled them, accepted the majority verdict, convicted theappellants and -sentenced them as above.We  are	 of  opinion that in so doing  the  High  Court	 wasclearly in error and acted in violation of the provisions ofs.  307 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	Section	 307(3) provides:-In  dealing  with the case so submitted the High  Court	 mayexercise  any  of  the powers which it may  exercise  on  anappeal, and subject thereto it shall, after considering	 theentire evidence and after giving due weight to the  opinionsof  the Sessions Judge and the jury, acquit or convict	suchaccused	 of  any  offence  of  which  the  jury	 could	haveconvicted  him upon the charge framed and placed before	 it;and,  if it convicts him, may pass such sentence  a,%  mighthave been passed by the Court of Sessions."We  had	 occasion to consider this  provision  in  AkhlakaliHayatalli v. The State of Bombay(1) where we approved of thefollowing  observations	 of  their Lordships  of  the  PrivyCouncil in Ramanugrah Singh v. The Emperor(2):" The powers of the High Court in dealing with the referenceare  contained in sub-section (3).  It may exercise  any  ofthe powers. which it might exercise upon an appeal, and thisincludes  the power to call fresh evidence conferred  by  s.428.   The Court must consider the whole case and  give	 dueweight	to the opinions of the Sessions Judge and jury,	 andthen  acquit  or convict the accused.  In  their  Lordships'view, the paramount consideration in the High Court must  bewhether the ends of justice require that. the verdict of thejury  should be set aside.  In general, if the	evidence  issuch  that  it	can properly support  a	 verdict  either  ofguilty, or. not guilty according to the view taken of it  bythe  trial  Court,  and if the jury take  one  view  of	 theevidence  and the, judge thinks that they should have  takenthe other, the view of the jury must prevail, since they arethe  judges  of	 fact.	In such a case a  reference  is	 notjustified,  and it is only by accepting their view that	 theHigh  Court can give due weight to the opinion of the  jury.It, however,(I) [1954] S.C.R. 435. 442.(2) A.I.R. 1946 P.C. 151, 154.278the   High  Court  considers  that  upon  the  evidence	  noreasonable  body- of men could have reached  the  conclusionarrived at by the jury, then the reference was justified andthe   ends   of	 justice  required  that  the	verdict	  bedisregarded."This  wag  pronounced  by us to be  the	 correct  method  ofapproach in a reference under s. 307 of the Code of CriminalProcedure.   It	 was incumbent on the High  Court  when	 thereference  was heard by it to consider the  entire  evidenceand come to its own conclusion whether the evidence was suchthat it could properly support the verdict of guilty againstthe  appellants.  If the High Court came to  the  conclusionthat the evidence was such that it was possible for the juryto  take the view that it did even though the judge  thoughtthat they should have taken another view the reference wouldnot  have  been	 justified and the High	 Court	should	haveaccepted  the  opinion of the jury.  If the High  Court	 washowever of opinion upon the evidence that no reasonable bodyof  men could have reached the conclusion arrived at by	 thejury  the reference would have been quite justified and	 theends  of  justice  required  that  the	verdict	 should	  bedisregarded.   The High Court, however, only considered	 thearguments in regard to the defect in the charge to the	juryaddressed   before  it	by  the	 learned  counsel  for	 theappellants  and did not consider the entire  evidence  whichwas on the record before it.  In not having done so, we	 areclearly of opinion that it violated the provisions of s. 307(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.We are accordingly of opinion that the judgment of the	HighCourt  accepting  the majority verdict	and  convicting	 theappellants and sentencing them as above without	 consideringthe entire evidence was clearly wrong and the conviction  ofthe appellants and the sentences passed upon them should  beset aside.We were invited by learned counsel for the parties appearingbefore us to consider the entire evidence for ourselves	 andcome to the conclusion which, according to the provisions ofs.  307	 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure,	 I  he	HighCourt should have done.	 We do			    279not  think  that  is the proper procedure to  adopt  and  wetherefore  allow the- appeal, and remand this matter to	 theHigh  Court to act in accordance with the provisions  of  s.307 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and deal with	 thesame  in accordance with law.  The appellants Will  continueon the same bail as before.Appeal allowed.