PETITIONER:ATMA RAM	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERS(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/12/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  519		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 748 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC 796	 (3) R	    1960 SC1080	 (17,69,75) E	    1961 SC 954	 (23) R	    1962 SC 137	 (8) R	    1962 SC 694	 (26,27,67) R	    1962 SC 723	 (42) R	    1965 SC 632	 (4) R	    1967 SC1110	 (11,12) R	    1967 SC1373	 (40) R	    1972 SC 425	 (31) F	    1972 SC 486	 (13) R	    1985 SC 236	 (46) RF	    1988 SC1708	 (15)ACT:       Land Tenure-Modification of landlord's rights in land-Enact-       ment-Competence	  of	State	 Legislature-Constitutional       validity--Punjab	 Security of Land Tenure Act (Punj.   X	 of       1953),as	 amended by Act XI of 1955, s.	18-Constitution	 of       India,  Arts.  14, 19, 31, 31A, 246(3),	Entry  18,List	11,       Seventh	Schedule-Punjab	 Land Revenue Act (Punj.   XVII	 of       1887), ss. 3(1), 3(3).HEADNOTE:The  point  in controversy in these petitions was  the	con-stitutional  validity of the Punjab Security of Land  TenureAct (Punj.  X Of 1953), as amended by Act XI of 1955,  whichsought to "provide for the security of land-tenure and otherincidental  matters  ". The impugned  Act  which  admittedlydealt  with holdings as defined by the	Punjab	Land-RevenueAct, 1887, limited the- area which might be held by a  land-owner  for  the	 purpose  of  self-cultivation	and  therebyreleased surplus area to be utilised for resettling  ejectedtenants ; and by s. 18 conferred upon the tenants the  rightto purchase from the land-owners the lands held by them	 andthus  themselves  to become the landowners on  prices  whichwould be below the market value.  It was contended on behalfof  the	 petitioners, who were,landowners  affected  by	 theimpugned Act, that under Entry 18 in List II of the  SeventhSchedule  to  the Constitution, the  State  Legislature	 wasincompetent  to enact a law limiting the extent of the	landto  be held by a land-owner and that the provisions  of	 theimpugned Act contravened the petitioners' fundamental rightsunder Arts. 14, 19(1)(f)and 31 of the Constitution.Held, that the contentions must fail.The  words  " rights in or over land " and  "  land  tenuresoccurring in Entry 18 in List 11 of Seventh Schedule to	 theConstitution  were  sufficiently  comprehensive	 to  includemeasures  of land-tenure reforms, such as the impugned	Act,that  sought  to  limit the extent of  land  in	 cultivatingpossession of the landowner in order to release larger areasof land to be made available for cultivation by tenants	 andthat  Entry read with Art. 246(3) of the  Constitution	gavethe   State  Legislature  exclusive  power  to	enact	suchmeasures.Such determination of the relation of landlord and tenant aswas  contemplated  by  s. 18 and  other	 provisions  of	 theimpugned Act, which sought to convert a tenant into a  land-owner, was well within the ambit of Entry 18.749The United Provinces v. Mst.  Atiqa Begum, [1940] F.C.R. 110and  Megh  Raj	v.  Allah Rakhi, (1946)	 L.R.  74  I.A.	 12,referred to.It  was	 beyond doubt that the	impugned  Act  substantiallymodified the land-owner's rights to hold and dispose of	 hisproperty  in  any estate or portion thereof  and  thus	fellwithin the purview of Art. 31A(1)(a) of the Constitution andwas immune from any attack on the ground that it contravenedArts. 14, 19and 31 of the Constitution.The observations made by this Court in Thakur Raghubir Singhv. Court of Wards, Ajmer, [1953] S.C.R. 1049, in  connectionwith another Act, with absolutely different provisions, mustbe  limited  to	 the  facts of that  case  and	were  whollyinapplicable.Thakur,	 Raghubir  Singh v. Court of  Wards,  Ajmer,  [1953]S.C.R. 1049, distinguished and held inapplicable.The words " any estate or of any rights therein "  occurringin Art. 31A(1)(a) read in the light of Art. 31A(2)  includedany  kinds of rights either quantitative or  qualitative  inthe  area encompassed by an estate or any portion of it	 andthus included holdings as defined by the Punjab Land-RevenueAct, 1887, and any shares or portions thereof.Regard	being had to the legal maxim that the  greater	mustinclude the less, it was, inappropriate to suggest that	 theConstitution should have specifically mentioned "portion  ofan  estate" in Art. 31A if it intended to give that  Articlesuch a comprehensive construction.Bhagirath  Ram	Chand v. State of Punjab, A.I.R.  1954	Pun.167, approved.State of Punjab v. S. Kehar Singh, (1958) 60P.L.R. 461, dis-approved.Ram  Narain Medhi v. The State of Bombay, [1959]  SUPP.	 (1)S.C.R. 489, applied.Hukam  Singh v. The State of Punjab, (1955) 57	P.L.R.	359,referred to.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL  JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 176, 177 and  253  of1956; 34, 35, 51-53, 69, 70, 75, 94 & 137 of 1957 ; 34,	 58,72, 90, 92, 106, 109 & 115 of 1958.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for.enforcement of Fundamental rights.C.B.  Aggarwal	and Naunit Lal, for  the  petitioner  (InPetition No. 176 of 1956).Achhru	Ram and Naunit Lal, for the petitioner (In  PetitionNo. 177 of 56).Naunit	Lal, for the petitioner (In Petitions Nos. 253/	 56;34,  35, 51-53, 69, 70, 75, 94 and 137/57; 34, 58, 92,	106,109 & 115/58).750Radhey	 Lal  Aggarwal	and  A.	 G.  Ratnaparkhi,  for	 thepetitioner (In Petition No. 90/58).H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,S.M.  Sikri,  Advocate-General for the State  of  Punjab,Gopal Singh and T. M. Sen, for respondent No. 1 (In PetitionNo. 176/56).S.M. Sikri, Advocate General for the State of Punjab, andT.  M.	Sen, for respondent No. 1 (In Petitions Nos.  177  &253/56; 34, 35, 51-53, 69, 70, 75, 94 & 137/57; 34, 58,	 72,90, 92, 106, 109 & 115/58).R.S. Gheba, for respondent No. 3 (In Petition No. 90/58).Dipak Dutta Chowdhury, for respondent No. 3 (In Petition No.176/56).Udai  Bhan Chowdhury, for respondent No. 7 (In Petition	 No.59/57) and respondent No. 3 (In Petition No. 70/57).Harnam	Singh  and  Sadhu Singh,  for  the  Interveners	 (InPetition No. 176/56).1958.	December 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySINHA, J.-These petitions under Art. 32 of the	Constitutionimpugn the constitutionality of the Punjab Security of	LandTenure	Act  (Punj.  X of 1953) (which will be	referred  tohereinafter as the Act), as amended by Act XI of 1955.	 Thepetitioners  are  land-owners of the lands affected  by	 theprovisions of the impugned Act.	 The State of Punjab and itsofficers,  besides persons claiming benefits under the	Act,are the respondents in these several petitions.The impugned Act has a history which may shortly be set out.With  a	 view  to providing for the security  of  tenure  totenants,  the Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure)  OrdinanceIV  of 1950, was promulgated with effect from May 13,  1950.That Ordinance was replaced by the Punjab Tenants  (Securityof  Tenure)  Act  XII  of 1950, which  came  into  force  onNovember  6,  1950,  on	 the date  on  which  it  was  firstpublished  in  the  Punjab  Government	Gazette.   The	 Actprescribed  a  limit of one hundred standard acres  of	land(equivalent to two hundred ordinary acres) which could be751held  by a land-owner for his " self-cultivation ";  and  itwas  termed" permissible limit "-(s. 2(3) ).  Any  landownerhaving	land  in  excess  of the  "  permissible  limit	 wasauthorized by s. 3 to select for " self-cultivation land outof the entire area held by him in the State of.	 Punjab,  asland-owner, and reserve it for his own use to the extent  ofthe " permissible limit ". This " right of reservation " hadto  be	exercised, first, in respect of land  in  his  self-cultivation;  and if the extent of such land fell  short  ofthe " permissible limit ", he could, under s. 4, make up thedeficiency by ejecting tenants under him in respect of	suchlands as fell within his reserved area.	 Section 5 fixed theminimum period of tenancy as four years, subject to  certainexceptions  set out in s. 6. These were some of the  salientfeatures of the Act of 1950, which itself was amended by thePunjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Act (Punj.	V of  1951),which came into force on December 24, 1951.  By the amendingAct,  the " permissible limit " was reduced to	50  standardacres  equivalent  to 100 ordinary acres,  and	the  minimumperiod	of tenancy was raised to five years.  It  also	madeprovisions  for preferential right of pre-emption-(s.  12A),and  conferred a right of purchase on the tenant in  respectof  land  in  his possession-(s. 12B),	subject	 to  certainexceptions(s. 12C).  Another legislation in this series	 wasthe Prevention of Ejectment (Temporary Powers) Ordinance No.1  of 1952, which came into force on June 11,  1952.   Then,came  the  Punjab Security of Land Tenure Act (Punj.   X  of1953),	now impugned, which repealed the aforesaid Acts	 XIIof  1950  and V of 1951.  It came into force  on  April	 15,1953.	This Act itself was amended by Act LVII of 1953	 andAct  XI of 1955.  Though. this Act has undergone  subsequentamendments in 1957 and 1958, we are not concerned with thoseamendments,  because  they came into  existence	 after	thisCourt  was moved under Art. 32 of the Constitution.  We	 areconcerned  with the state of the law as it stood  after	 theamendment of 1955, aforesaid.Before dealing with the grounds of attack urged against	 theimpugned Act, it is convenient to set out,752in  a  nut-shell, the salient provisions of the	 Act,  whichhave  given rise to the present controversy, and which	givean idea of the scope and nature of the legislation now underexamination.   The  Act has a short Preamble, namely,  "  toprovide for the security of land tenure and other incidentalmatters ". The Act further reduces the " permissible area  "(s.  2(3)  ) in relation to a landlord or a  tenant,  to  30standard  acres	 equivalent  to	 60  ordinary  acres,  thus,releasing a larger area for re-settlement of tenants ejectedor  to	be ejected under the provisions of the Act.   So  tosay,  it  creates  a pool of  "surplus	area"  (s.  2(5-a)),meaning	  thereby   the	  area	 other	 than	the"reservedarea"in	 excess	 of  the "permissible  area"  as  aforesaid."Reserved  area"  means the area lawfully  reserved  by	 thelandlord  under	 the provisions of the two  Acts  aforesaid,which were repealed by the Act-(s. 2(4)).  The definition ofa  tenant under the Act, includes a sub-tenant and  a  self-cultivating  lessee-(s.	 2(6)).	  As  already  indicated,  atenant also may be liable to be ejected from any area  whichhe  holds  in  any  capacity whatever in  excess  of  the  "permissible  area  ".  Section	10-A  authorizes  the  StateGovernment or any officer empowered by it in this behalf, toutilize	 any " surplus area " for re-settlement	 of  tenantsejected	 or to be ejected under the provisions of  s.  9(1).But a tenant inducted on to such " surplus area ", holds theland  under the land-owner, who, thus, becomes	entitled  toreceipt	 of rent from the tenant.  Section 12 lays down	 themaximum rent payable by a tenant.  Section 17 recognizes therights of certain tenants to pre-empt sales or	fore-closureof land.  Section 18, which formed the subject-matter of themost  vehement attack on behalf of the petitioners,  confersupon  the  tenants of the description given in	the  severalclauses	 of  the Act, the right to purchase from  the  land-owner the land held by them, subject to certain	 exceptions,and  subject to the payment in a lump sum or in six  monthlyinstalments  not exceeding ten, of the purchase-price to  bedetermined  in	accordance with cls. (2) and (3) of  s.	 18.Section 23 invalidates any decree or order of any. court  orauthority, or a notice		       753of ejectment, which is not consistent with the provisions ofthe Act.  Thus, the Act seeks to limit the area which may beheld  by a land-owner for the purpose  of  self-cultivation,thereby,  releasing " surplus area " which may	be  utilizedfor the purpose of resettling ejected tenants, and affordingan  opportunity	 to  the tenant	 to  become  the  land-ownerhimself on payment of the purchase-price which, if anything,would  be  less than the market value.	It,  thus,  aims  atcreating  what	it calls a class of "  small  land-owners  "meaning thereby, holders of land not exceeding the " permis-sible  area "-(s. 2(2)).  The utmost emphasis has been	laidon  self-cultivation  which means " cultivation by  a  land-owner either personally or through his wife or children,  orthrough such of his relations as may be prescribed, or underhis supervision "-(s. 2(9) ).The  arguments at the Bar, on behalf of the petitioners	 maybe  put	 under	three  main  heads,  namely,  (1)  that	 theLegislature had no legislative competence to enact the	Act,(2)   that  the	 provisions  of	 the  Act   contravene	 thepetitioners'  fundamental  rights  enshrined  in  Arts.	 14,19(1)(f)  and 31 of the Constitution, and (3)  that  certainspecified  provisions  of  the Act  amount  to	unreasonablerestrictions on the petitioners' rights to hold and  disposeof property.At the outset, it is necessary to deal with the question  oflegislative  competence, which was raised on behalf of	someof  the	 petitioners, though not on behalf of all  of  them.This argument of want of legislative competence goes to	 theroot  of  the impugned Act, and if it  is  well-founded,  noother  question need be gone into.  It has been argued	thatEntry  18  in  List  II	 of  the  Seventh  Schedule  to	 theConstitution,  should not be read as authorizing  the  StateLegislature  to enact a law limiting the extent of the	landto  be held by a proprietor or a landowner.  Entry 18 is  inthese words:-" 18.  Land, that is to say, rights in or over land  tenuresincluding  the	relation  of landlord and  tenant,  and	 thecollection of rents; transfer and alienation of agriculturalland improvement and agricultural loans; colonization."754It  will  be  noticed that the Entry read  along  with	Art.246(3)	of the Constitution, has vested exclusive  power  inthe  State to make laws with respect to " rights in or	overland   tenures	including  the	relation  of  landlord	 andtenant........ The provisions of the Act set out above, dealwith  the  landlord's  rights in land  in  relation  to	 histenant,	 so as to modify the landlord's rights in land,	 andcorrespondingly,  to  expand the  tenant's  rights  therein.Each  of  the expressions " rights in or over land "  and  "land tenures ", is comprehensive enough to take in  measuresof  reforms of land tenures, limiting the extent of land  incultivating   possession  of  the  land-owner,	 and   thus,releasing  larger  areas of land to be	made  available	 forcultivation by tenants.Counsel	 for  some  of the petitioners	who  challenged	 thelegislative  competence of the State Legislature, were	hardput  to	 it to enunciate any easily appreciable	 grounds  ofattack against Entry 18 in List II of the Seventh  Schedule.It  was	 baldly	 argued that Entry  18	aforesaid,  was	 notintended  to authorize legislation which had the  effect  oflimiting the area of land which could be directly held by  aproprietor or a land-owner.  It is difficult to see why	 theamplitude of the words " rights in or over land " should  becut  down in the way suggested in this argument.  A  similarargument was advanced in the case of The United Provinces v.Mst.   Atiqa Begum (1).	 In that case, the United  ProvincesRegularization of Remissions Act, 1938 (U.  P. XIV of 1938),was challenged.	 One of the main provisions of that Act	 hadvalidated  remission of rent.  It had been argued  that	 theUnited Provinces Legislature was not competent to  legislateabout  the  remission of rent, when the	 relevant  words  inEntry  21,  relating to land in the Provincial List  of	 theSeventh	 Schedule  to the Constitution Act of 1935,  were  "collection  of	rents ". Entry 21 relating to " land  "	 badadded  certain words by way of explanation and	illustrationof  the	 intention  of the Constitution-makers,	 ,so  as  toindicate that the word " land " was meant to be used in	 itswidest connotation.  A member of the(1)[1940] F.C.R. 110.755Full  Bench  of the Allahabad High Court,  in  his  judgmentwhich  was the subject-matter of the appeal to	the  FederalCourt,	had  come  to  the  conclusion	that  Item  No.	  21aforesaid, including the words " collection of rents ",	 hadnot  authorized	 the  Provincial  Legislature  to   validateremission  of rent.  That conclusion was not upheld  by	 theFederal Court which held that remission of rent was a mattercovered	 by Item No. 21, and it was, therefore,	 within	 thecompetence  of	the  Provincial	 Legislature  to  enact	 theimpugned  Act;	and  Gwyer,  C. J., in	the  course  of	 hisjudgment observed that the Items in the several lists of theSeventh	 Schedule,  should  not	 be  read  in  a  narrow  orrestricted sense, and that each general word should be	heldto  extend  to all ancillary and  subsidiary  matters  whichcould  fairly' and reasonably be said to be comprehended  init.The same Item 21 in List II (Provincial List) of the SeventhSchedule  to  the  Constitution Act of	1935,  came  up	 forconsideration  before  the Judicial Committee of  the  PrivyCouncil	 on appeal from the Federal Court of India  in	MeghRaj v. Allah Rakhi (1), affirming the judgment of the LahoreHigh  Court.   In  that	 case,	the  Punjab  Restitution  ofMortgaged Lands Act (Punj.  IV of 1938) had been  challengedas  ultra vires.  By that Act, the Legislature had  providedfor redemption of mortgages on terms much less onerous	thanthe  terms  of the mortgage-deeds.  Their Lordships  of	 theJudicial  Committee  of	 the  Privy  Council  repelled	 thecontention raised on behalf of the appellants that the wordsof  Item  No.  21, were not wide enough	 to  comprehend	 therelationship  of  mortgagor  and  mortgagee  in	 respect  ofagricultural  land.  Their Lordships observed that  Item  21aforesaid,  forming a part, as it did, of the  Constitution,should,	  on   ordinary	 principles,  receive	the   widestconstruction,  unless,	for  some reasons, it  is  cut	downeither	by the terms of that item itself, or by other  partsof the Constitution, which have, naturally, to be read as  awhole;	and  then  proceeded  to  make	the  following	verysignificant observations :-(1)  (1946) L.R. 74 I.A. 12.756"  As to item 21, " land ", the governing word, is  followedby  the rest of the item, which goes on to say, 'that is  tosay'.	These  words introduce the  most  general  concept-'rights	in  or over land'.   Rights in	land'  must  includegeneral rights like full ownership or leasehold or all	suchrights.	 Rights over land' would include easements or  othercollateral  rights,  whatever form they	 might	take.	Thenfollow words which are not words of limitation but of expla-nation or illustration, giving instances which may furnish aclue  for  particular  matters: thus  there  are  the  wordsrelation of landlord and tenant, and collection' of rents ".Thus, their Lordships concluded that the Item 21 relating toland, would include mortgages as an incidental and ancillarysubject.Another branch of the same argument was that Entry 18  couldnot cover the determination of the relation of landlord	 andtenant, which is envisaged by some of the provisions of	 theAct, particularly s. 18, which has the effect of  convertingthe  tenant  into  a land-owner himself, by  virtue  of	 thepurchase.  This argument is also disposed of by the judgmentof the Federal Court in United Provinces v. Atiqa Begum (1).It was next contended that Entry 18 has got to be read	withArt. 19(5), in order to determine the legislative competencein  enacting the impugned statute.  In other words,  it	 wascontended that cl. (5) of Art. 19 of the Constitution, is inthe nature of a proviso to the Entry ; and that the Entry soread  along  with  Art. 19(5), lays down  the  test  of	 thelegislative  competence.  This argument is easily  disposed.of  with  reference to the provisions of Art.  31-A  of	 theConstitution.	If  it is held that the	 provisions  of	 theimpugned  statute lay down the law for the  modification  ofrights	in estates, as defined in sub-Art. (2) of Art.	31A,none  of the grounds of attack founded on any of the  provi-sions of Arts. 14, 19 or 31, can avail the petitioners.	  Aswill  presently appear, the Act lays down  provisions  whichare  in	 the nature of modifications of	 rights	 in  estateswithin the meaning of Art. 31A(1).  That being(1) (1940) F.C.R. 110.757so,  Art. 19(5) is wholly out of the way in this  case.	  Inview of all these considerations, it must be held that thereis no legal foundation for the contention that the  impugnedAct  is	 beyond	 the legislative  competence  of  the  StateLegislature.Having dealt with the question of legislative competence, wehave  to deal with the several contentions raised on  behalfof  the	 petitioners, with reference to	 the  provisions  ofArts.  14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution.  On this  part  ofthe  case,  it has rightly been conceded on  behalf  of	 thepetitioners  that  if  the impugned  Act  comes	 within	 thepurview	 of any of the clauses of Art. 31A, the law will  beimmune	from  attack  on any of the  grounds  based  on	 theprovisions  of Arts. 14, 19 and 31.  But it has been  arguedthat the provisions of Art. 31A(1)(a), which are  admittedlythe only portions of the Article, which are relevant to	 thepresent inquiry, are not attracted to the impugned Act.	  Ithas been conceded on behalf of the respondents that the	 Actdoes  not  provide for the acquisition by the State  of	 anyestate	or of any rights in any estate.	 Hence, the  crucialwords  which must govern this part of the  controversy,	 arethe  words " the extinguishment or modification of any	suchrights	"; that is to say, we have to determine	 whether  ornot  the  impugned Act provides for  the  extinguishment  ormodification  of  any  rights in " estates  ".	Art.  31A(2)defines	 what the expression II estate " used in Art. 3 1  Ameans.	 According  to that definition, " the  expression  "estate " shall, in relation to any local area, have the samemeaning	 as that expression or its local equivalent  has  inthe  existing law relating to land tenures in force in	thatarea,  and  shall also include any jagir, inam or  Muafi  orother similar grant and in the States of Madras and  Kerala,any janmam right".  It is common ground that we have to turnto  the definition of an estate, as contained in the  PunjabLand-Revenue Act XVII of 1887.	Section 3(1) of that Act hasthe following definition:-(1)  " estate " means any area-(a)  for which a separate record-of-rights has been made; or758(b)which has been separately assessed to land revenue,	orwould have been so assessed if the land revenue had not beenreleased, compounded for or redeemed ; or(c)which  the (State) Government may, by general  rule	orspecial order, declare to be an estate ".Clause	(c) of the definition is out of the way, because  ithas not been claimed that the State Government has made	 anydeclaration  within  the meaning of  that  clause.   Estate,therefore,  for	 the -purposes of the  present	controversy,means  any  area or -which a separate  record-of-rights	 hasbeen  made,  or which has been separately assessed  to	landrevenue	  (omitting   the  unnecessary	words).	   In	thisconnection, it is also necessary to refer to the  definitionof a holding in s. 3(3) in the following terms:-"(3) 'holding" means a share or portion of an estate held byone landowner or jointly by two or more landowners ".It was not controverted at the Bar that in Punjab, there arevery few estates as defined in s. 3(1), quoted above, in thesense that one single land-owner is seized and possessed  ofan entire estate which is equated with a whole village.	  Inother  words, in Punjab, an estate and a village are  inter-changeable  terms,  and	 almost all villages  are  owned  inparcels, as holdings by co-sharers, most likely, descendantsof  the holder of a whole village which came to	 be  dividedamongst	 the  co-sharers,  as  a  result  of  devolution  ofinterest.   The parties were also agreed that  the  impugnedAct deals with holdings, as defined in the Land-Revenue Act,or  shares or portions thereof.	 The argument on  behalf  ofthe  petitioners to get over the provisions of Art. 31A,  isthat  the  Act does not deal with any estate or	 any  rightstherein,  but  only  with holdings  or	shares	or  portionsthereof.   This	 argument proceeds on  the  assumption	thatholdings   are	not  any  rights  in  an  estate.   If	 thepetitioners are right in their contention that the  immunitygranted	 by Art. 31A of the Constitution, is available	onlyin  respect of entire estates and not portions	of  estates,then the argument on behalf of the respondents that the	 Actis saved by the759provisions  of	that Article fails in limine.	If,  on	 theother  hand,  it is held that Art. 31A applies not  only  toentire estates or any rights therein, but also to shares  orportions  of  an  estate or rights  therein,  then  all	 thearguments advanced on behalf of the petitioners, founded  onthe provisions of Arts 14, 19 and 31, are thrown  overboard.Therefore, it becomes necessary to consider the amplitude ofthe  expression " any estate or of any rights therein  "  inArt.   31A(1)(a).   Rights  in	an  estate  may	 be   eitherquantitative  or qualitative.  That is to say, rights in  anestate may be held by persons having different qualities  ofrights in lands constituting an estate, as a result of	sub-infeudation.  Generally speaking and omitting all referencesto  different kinds of land tenures prevailing in  differentparts  of  India,  it may be said that at the  apex  of	 thepyramid, stands the State.  Under the State, a large  numberof   persons   variously  called   proprietors,	  zamindars,malguzars,  inamdars  and jagirdars, etc., hold	 parcels  ofland,  subject to the payment of land revenue designated  aspeshkash,  quit-rent  or malguzari, etc.,  representing	 theGovernment demands by way of land-tax out of the usufruct ofthe  land  constituting an estate, except  where  Governmentdemands	 had  been  excused in whole or in part	 by  way  ofreward for service rendered to the State in the past, or  tobe  rendered in the future.  An estate, thus, is an area  ofland  which  is a unit of revenue assessment, and  which  isseparately entered in the Land Revenue Collector's  registerof revenue-paying or revenue-free estates.  A single estate,unless	governed  by the Rule of  Primogeniture,  would,  incourse	of time, be hold by a number of persons in the	samerights	as  co-sharers	in the estate.	 Those	several	 co-sharers are all jointly and severally liable for the paymentof the Government demands, if any, though, by an arrangementwith   the   Revenue  Department,  they	 may  have   had   adistribution made of the total Government demands as payablein  respect  of aliquot portions of the	 estate.   Generallyspeaking, in the first instance, each sharer in an estate isliable	to pay his portion of the landrevenue, but  if,	 forany reasons, the Government760demands	 cannot	 be  realized  from  any  defaulting   shareprimarily liable for them, the entire estate, including	 theshares	of those who may not be the defaulting	proprietors,is  liable  to	be sold or otherwise  dealt  with   for	 therealization of those demands.  Thus, the unity of assessmentof  land  revenue in respect of the  entire  estate  remainsintact.	  In actual practice, the holder of  each  specifiedportion or share of an estate, holds his portion for his ownexclusive use and occupation.  Such a sharer in an estate inPunjab is known as the land-owner of a " holding ". But sucha holding still continues to be a portion or a share of	 theestate out of which it has been carved.	 Such a division  ofan  estate  is	quantitative or a vertical  division  of  anestate.	  But there may also be a horizontal or	 qualitativedivision of the lands in an estate, effected by the  processof  sub-infeudation.   Continuing the  illustration  of	 thepyramid,  generally speaking, the lands in an estate may  intheir  entirety	 or  in portions, be let  out  to  what,  inEastern	 India,	 are known as tenure holders,  for  example,patnidars,  in	areas covered by the  Permanent	 Settlement.Tenure-holders were persons who took lands of an estate	 notnecessarily  for the purpose of self-cultivation,  but	alsofor  settling tenants on the land, and realizing rents	fromthem.  These patnidars may have darpatnidars under them, anddarpatnidars   sepatnidars,  and  in  this  way,  the	sub-infeudation went on.  All these classes are included  withinthe  terms  "  tenure-holders ", " sub-proprietors  "  or  "under-proprietors ". The persons who are inducted on to	 theland  for  bringing it under their direct  cultivation,	 aregenerally  known in Eastern India as raiyats with rights  ofoccupancy  in the land held by them.  But raiyats, in  theirturn, may have inducted tenants under them in respect of thewhole  or  a portion of their holding.	The  tenant  holdingunder  a raiyat is known as an under-raiyat, and  an  under-raiyat may induct a tenant under himself, and he will be  anunder-raiyat  of the second degree.  Thus, in each grade  ofholders of land, in the process of subinfeudation  describedabove. the holder is a tenant under his superior holder, thelandlord, and also the761landlord of the holder directly holding under him.  Thus, inEastern	 India, the interest of intermediaries	between	 theproprietor of an " estate " at the top and the actual tillerof  the soil at the bottom, is known as that of a "  tenure-holder	",  and the interest of tenants other  than  tenure-holders,  is  given  the generic name of a "  holding  ".  Aholding	 in Eastern India, thus, indicates the	interest  ofthe  actual tiller of the soilraiyat or	 under-raiyat-unlikethe  "	holding " in Punjab where, as indicated	 above,	 itssignifies  the	interest  of the holder of  a  share  in  anestate.	 Thus, holdings in Punjab are vertical divisions  ofan  estate;  whereas  in Eastern  India,  they	represent  ahorizontal division, connoting a lesser quality of an estatein land than the interest of a tenure-holder in his  tenure,or  of a land-owner in his estate or portion of	 an  estate.It is not necessarily true that there should be	 intermedia-ries in every estate or a portion of an estate.	 Very often,the  holder  of an estate may be holding his  entire  estatedirectly  in  his possession by way  of	 khudkasht,  zeerat,kamath	or  neezjote, or it may be that the  proprietor	 hasonly raiyats under him without the intermediation of tenure-holders,  and  the raiyats may not  have  any  under-raiyatsunder them.  The process of sub-infeudation described above,naturally,  varies with the size of the estate.	 It  appearsto  be common ground in this case that in Punjab, an  estatemeans the whole village, whereas in Eastern India, an estatemay comprise a whole district or only a cluster of villages,or  a  single  village, or even a part of  a  village.	 Thelarger	the  size of an estate, the greater the	 process  ofsub-infeudation and vice versa.	 In Punjab, as there was  nopermanent settlement of Revenue as in Bengal, Bihar,  Orissaand  other  parts  of Eastern India,  the  unit	 of  revenueassessment has been the village.  Thus, a holding in  Punjabmeans  a  portion of a village either big  or  small.	Thatportion	 may  be in the direct possession of  the  landownerhimself, or he may have inducted tenants on a portion or thewhole of his holding.  The interest of the tenant in Punjab,appears to have been a precarious tenure, even more precari-ous than that of an under raiyat in Eastern India.  The96762Punjab Legislature, realising that the interest of a  tenantwas  much  too precarious for him to  invest  his  availablelabour and capital to the fullest extent so as to raise	 themaximum quality and quantity of money crops or other  crops,naturally, in the interest of the community as a whole,	 andin  implementation  of	the Directive  Principles  of  StatePolicy,	 thought of granting longer tenures, and as we	haveseen  above,  the period has  been  progressively  increaseduntil  we  arrive  at  the  stage  of  the  legislation	 nowimpugned,  which  proposes to create a large body  of  smallland-owners  who  have a comparatively larger stake  in	 theland, and consequently, have greater impetus to invest theirlabour	and  capital  with a view  to  raising	the  maximumusufruct out of the land in their possession.Keeping	 in  view  the background of  the  summary  of	landtenures	 in  Punjab and elsewhere, we have to  construe	 theamplitude of the crucial words " any estate or of any rightstherein	 " in Art. 31A (1) (a).	 Soon after the coming	intoeffect	of the Constitution, the different States  in  Indiaembarked  upon	a scheme of legislation	 for  reforming	 thesystem	 of  land-holding,  so	as  (1)	 to  eliminate	 theintermediaries,	 that is to say, those who hold interest  inland in between the State at the apex and the actual tillersof  the soil-in other words, to abolish the class  of  rent-receivers,  and	 (2)  to  create  a  large  body  of   smalllandholders who have a permanent stake in the land, and	 whoare, therefore, interested in making the best use of it.  Asthe  connotation  of the term " estate "  was  different  indifferent  parts of the country, the expression "  estate  "described  in  el.  (2) of Art. 31 A, has  been	 so  broadlydefined as to cover all estates in the country, and to coverall possible kinds of rights in estates, as shown by sub-cl.(b) of cl. (2) of Art. 31A, which is in these terms:shall  include	any  rights vesting in	a  proprietor,	sub-proprietor, under proprietor, tenure-holder (raiyat,  under-raiyat)	 or other intermediary and any rights or  privilegesin respect of land revenue."The expression " rights " in relation to an estate has	beengiven an all inclusive meaning, comprising both			  763what  we  have	called,	 for the  sake	of  brevity,  the  "horizontal  "  and " vertical " divisions of an	 estate.   Aproprietor  in an estate may be the proprietor	holding	 theentire	interest  in a single estate, or  only	a  co-sharerproprietor.   The provisions aforesaid of Art. 31A,  bearingon the construction of the expression " estate " or "rights"in  an estate, have been deliberately made as wide  as	theycould  be,  in	order  to  take	 in  all  kinds	 of  rights-quantitative and qualitative-in an area co-extensive with anestate or only a portion thereof.  But it has been suggestedthat the several interests indicated in sub-cl. (b),  quotedabove,	have  been  used with reference to the	area  of  anentire	estate, but knowing as we do, that a raiyat's or  anunder  raiyat's holding generally is not  co-extensive	withthe  area  of  an  entire estate  but  only  small  portionsthereof,  it would, in our opinion, be unreasonable to	holdthat   the  makers  of	the  Constitution  were	 using	 theexpression " estate " or " rights " in an estate, in such  arestricted  sense.  Keeping in view the fact that  Art.	 31Awas enacted by two successive amendments-one in 1951  (FirstAmendment),  and the second in 1955 (Fourth  Amendment)-withretrospective effect, in order to save legislation effectingagrarian  reforms,  we	have every reason  hold	 that  thoseexpressions  have  been	 used  in  their  widest  amplitude,consistent  with  the purpose behind  those  amendments.   Apiece of validating enactment purposely introduced into	 theConstitution with a view to saving that kind of	 legislationfrom  attacks  on the ground of	 constitutional	 invalidity,based  on Arts. 14, 19 and 31, should not be construed in  anarrow	sense.	 On the other hand,  such  a  constitutionalenactment  should  be given its fullest and  widest  effect,consistently   with  the  purpose  behind   the	  enactment,provided, however, that such a construction does not involveany violence to the language actually used.Another	 branch of the same argument was that if the  makersof  the Constitution intended to include within the  purviewof  Art.  31A,	not only entire estates	 but  also  portionsthereof,  nothing would have been easier than to say  so  interms, and that in the absence of any specific mention of  "portions of an estate764we  should not read that article as covering " -portions  ofan estate " also.  In our opinion, there is no substance  inthis  contention,  because  they  must	be  attributed	fullknowledge of the legal maxim that " the greater contains theless "-Omne Majus continet in se minus.	 In this connection,our attention was invited to the decision of a Full Bench ofthe  Punjab High Court in the case of State of Punjab v.  S.Kehar  Singh (1), to the effect that a holding being a	partof an estate, was not within the purview of Art. 31A of	 theConstitution.  In this connection, it is necessary to  statethe  conflict  of views in that High Court itself.   In	 thecase  of  Bhagirath Ram Chand v. State of  Punjab  (2),	 thevalidity of the very Act impugned before us, was  challengedon  grounds  based  upon  Articles 14,	19  and	 31  of	 theConstitution.	The  learned Judges  constituting  the	FullBench,	unanimously  held  that the  impugned  Act  did	 notinfringe  those	 provisions  of the  Constitution,  and	 therestrictions  on the right of land-holding, imposed  by	 theAct,  were reasonable, and that the classification  did	 notexceed	the permissible limit.	But they also held that	 theAct was saved by Art. 31A of the Constitution, which appliedequally	 to  an	 entire	 estate or  to	a  portion  thereof.Besides	 giving	 other	reasons, which may  not	 bear  closescrutiny, they made specific reference to the doctrine	thatthe   whole  includes  the  part.   Thus,  the	Full   Benchspecifically held that Art. 31A of the Constitution  appliedequally	 to portions of estates also.  This decision of	 theFull Bench was followed by a Division Bench of the same HighCourt, consisting of Bhandari, C. J., and Dulat, J., in	 thecase of Hukam Singh v. The State of Punjab (3).	 That  Benchwas  concerned	with the provisions of	another	 Act  PunjabVillage Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1954.  In that  case,the Division Bench, naturally, followed the decision of	 theFull  Bench  in	 so far as it had ruled that  the  I  whole'includes the part, and that where an Act provides for rightsin an estate, it provides for rights in a part of an  estatealso.  The later Full(1) (1958) 60 P.L.R- 461.     (2) A.I.R. 1954 Pun. 167.(3) (1955) 57 P.L.R. 359.		      765Bench  case referred to above, was decided by three  Judges,including  Bhandari, C. J., who agreed with the judgment  ofthe Court delivered by Grover, J. Perhaps, the better coursewould  have been to constitute a larger Bench, when  it	 wasfound  that a Full Bench  of three Judges, was	inclined  totake a view contrary to that of another Full Bench of  equalstrength.   Such a course becomes necessary in view  of	 thefact that otherwise the subordinate courts are placed  underthe  embarrassment of preferring one view to  another,	bothequally	 binding upon them.  In our opinion, the view  takenby  the earlier Full Bench is the correct one.	The  learnedChief Justice who was a party to both the conflicting  viewson the same question, has not indicated his own reasons	 forchanging his view.  The Full Bench has accepted the force ofthe legal maxim that the greater contains the less, referredto  above,  but has not, it must be said with  all  respect,given  any  good  reasons  for	departing  from	 that  well-established  maxim.  The judgment of the Full Bench on	thispart of the case is based entirely upon the definition of anestate, as contained in the Punjab Land Revenue Act, set outabove.	It has not stopped to consider the further  questionwhy  a holding, which is a share or a portion of an  estate,as  defined  in the Punjab Act, should not  partake  of	 thecharacteristics	  of  an  estate.   Keeping  in	  view	 thebackground  of the legislative history and the objective  ofthe  legislation, is there any rational reason	for  holdingthat  the makers of the Constitution thought  of  abolishingonly  intermediaries in respect of an area constituting	 oneentire	estate but not of a portion thereof ? On  the  otherhand,  as indicated above, they have used the  expression  "estate" in an all-inclusive sense.  They have not stopped atthat; they have also added the words " or any rights therein". The expression " rights " in relation to an estate  againhas been used in a very comprehensive sense of including notonly  the  interests of proprietors or	sub-proprietors	 butalso of lower grade tenants, like raiyats or  under-raiyats,and  then  they added, by way of further  emphasizing  theirintention,  the	 expression " other  intermediary  ",  thus,clearly showing that766the enumeration of intermediaries was only illustrative	 andnot  exhaustive.   If the makers of the	 Constitution  have,thus,  shown their intention of saving all laws of  agrarianreform, dealing with the rights of intermediaries,  whatevertheir  denomination may be, in our opinion, no good  reasonshave  been adduced in support of the view that	portions  orshares	in  an	estate	are not	 within	 the  sweep  of	 theexpression  " or any rights therein ". A recent decision  ofthis  Court in the case of Ram Narain Nedhi v. The State  ofBombay	(1) dealt with the constitutionality of	 the  BombayTenancy and Agricultural Lands (Amendment) Act, 1956,  whichcontains  similar provisions with a view to doing away	withintermediaries, and establishing direct relationship betweenthe  State and tillers of the soil.  In that case also,	 thecontention  had been raised that the expression "  estate  "had reference to only alienated lands and not to unalienatedlands,	and this Court was invited to limit the	 meaning  ofthe  expression in the narrower sense.	This Court  repelledthat contention in these words:-the  context  of the Code is thus clear and  unambiguous  ascomprising both the types of lands, there is no reason why anarrower construction as suggested by the petitioners shouldbe put upon the expression " estate...................	Evenif  there  was any ambiguity in the  expression,  the  widersignificance  should  be  adopted  in  the  context  of	 theobjectives of the Act as stated above."These  observations apply with full force to the  contentionraised	on  behalf of the petitioners in the  present  casesalso.Another branch of the same argument as to why the provisionsof Art. 31A do not apply to the Act, is that the Act did nothave  the  effect of either extinguishing or  modifying	 anyrights in any estate, assuming that the expression "  estate"  includes reference also to parts of an estate.   In	thisconnection,  it is contended that the provisions of the	 Actimpugned   in	these	cases,	did  not   amount   to	 theextinguishment of(1)  [1959] SUPP. (1) S.C.R. 489.767the  interest  of  the land-owners in  estates	or  portionsthereof,  and that what the Act did was to transfer some  ofthe  rights  of the land-owners to their tenants.   In	thisconnection, reliance was placed on the observations of	thisCourt  in  the	case of Thakur Raghubir Singh  v.  Court  ofWards,	Ajmer  (1),  where  Mahajan, J.	 (as  he  then	was,speaking  for  the Court, observed that	 the  expressions  "extinguishment	" and " modification " used in Art.  31A  ofthe  Constitution,  meant  extinguishment  or	modificationrespectively of a proprietary right in an estate, and shouldnot  include, within their ambit, a mere suspension  of	 theright  of  management of an estate for a  time	definite  orindefinite.  Those observations must be strictly limited  tothe  facts of that case, and cannot possibly be extended  tothe  provisions	 of Acts wholly dissimilar to those  of	 theAjmer Tenancy and Land Records Act, XLII of 1950, which	 wasthe subject-matter of the challenge in the case then  beforethis  Court.   This  Court held, on a  construction  of	 theprovisions  of that Act, that they only suspended the  rightof  management but did not amount to any  extinguishment  ormodification  of any proprietary rights in an  estate.	 Theprovisions  of	the  Act then under  consideration  of	thisCourt,	have absolutely no resemblance to those of  the	 Actnow  before  us,  and  it is impossible	 to  put  a  similarinterpretation on these provisions.  In the recent  decisionof  this  Court	 (not yet reported*), this  Court  had	beeninvited to apply the observations of this Court referred  toabove, to the provisions of the Bombay Act.  It was  pointedout in that case that those observations of Mahajan, J.	 (ashe  then was), must be read as limited to an Act which	onlybrings	about a suspension of the right of management of  anestate,	 and could not be extended to the provisions  of  anAct which either extinguishes or modifies certain rights  ofa proprietor in an estate or a portion thereof.In  this  connection,  it was  further	argued	that  extin-guishment of a right, does not mean substitution of(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1049, 1055, 1056.Since  reported	 as  Sri Ram Narain Modhi v.  The  State  ofBombay, [1959] SUPP (1) S.C.R. 489.768another person in that right, but total annihilation of thatright.	In our opinion, it is not necessary to discuss	thisrather metaphysical argument, because, in our opinion, it isenough	for  the  purpose of this case	to   bold  that	 theprovisions  of	the  Act,  amount  to  modification  of	 thelandowner's rights in the lands comprised in his " estate  "or   "	holding	 ".  The  Act  modifies	  the	land-owner'ssubstantive  rights,  particularly, in	three  respects,  asindicated  above,  namely,  (1) it  modifies  his  right  ofsettling  his lands on any terms and to anyone	he  chooses;(2)  it modifies, if it does not altogether extinguish,	 hisright  to cultivate the " surplus area" as understood  underthe Act; and (3) it modifies his right of transfer in so faras it obliges him to sell lands not at his own price but  ata  price fixed under the statute, and not to any one but  tospecified persons, in accordance with the -provisions of theAct,  set out above.  Thus, there cannot be the least  doubtthat the provisions of the Act, very substantially modi theland-owner's  rights  to hold and dispose  of  his  propertyestate	or a portion thereof.  It is, therefore	 clear	thatthe  provisions of Art. 31A save the impugned Act  from	 anyattack	based on the provisions of Arts.  14, 19 and  31  ofthe  Constitution.  That being so, it is  not  necessary  toconsider the specific -provisions of the Act, which, it	 wascontended,  were  unreasonable	restrictions  on  the  land-owner's rights	 to  enjoy his property, or whether  he	 hadbeen unduly    discriminated   against,,  or   whether	 thecompensation,if	 any,  provided	 for under  the	 Act,  wasillusory  or,  at any rate, inadequate.	  Those	 grounds  ofattack are not available to the petitioners.  In the result,all  these petitions are dismissed with costs, the State  ofPunjab	and its officers being entitled to only one  set  ofhearing fees in all the petitions.			    Petitions dismissed.769