PETITIONER:YELLAPPAGOUDA SHANKARGOUDA PATIL	Vs.RESPONDENT:BASANGOUDA SHIDDANGOUDA PATILDATE OF JUDGMENT:09/03/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  808		  1960 SCR  (3) 221ACT:Hereditary Office-Decree for partition of Watan land  upheldby  Privy  Council in appeal-Abolition	of  Privy  Council'sjurisdiction-Issue  of certificate by  Collector-Applicationfor  cancellation  of decree, if can be entertained  by	 theSupreme Court-Bombay Hereditary Offices Act, 1874 (Bom.	 IIIof  1874), s. Abolition of Privy Council  Jurisdiction	Act,1949  (V  Of  1949), ss. 5,  8-Constition  of  India,  Arts.374(2), 135.HEADNOTE:The  respondent	 brought a suit for  partition	against	 thepetitioner  in	respect of certain Watan lands.	  The  trialcourt decreed the suit but the High Court of Bombay reversedthat  decree.in	 appeal.   The Privy  Council  restored	 thedecree of the trial court and an Order-in-Council was  drawnup  accordingly.  Execution of the said decree was  resistedby the petitioner on the ground that the lands in suit beingadmittedly remuneration attached to the office of the  Patiland  as such governed by the Bombay Hereditary Offices	Act,1874  (Bom.  III of 1874) were not liable to  partition.   Acertificate  under  s.	1o  of the Act	was  issued  by	 theCollector  at  the  instance  of  the  petitioner  and	 theexecuting   Court   cancelled  the  execution	case.	 Therespondent  appealed  to  the  High  Court  and	 that  courtfollowing  its	own  Full  Bench  decision  in	Rachapa	  v.Amingouda,  (1881)  V Bom. 283, held the certificate  to  beinvalid	 since	it was not addressed to	 the  Privy  Councilwhich  had passed the decree and set aside the order of	 theexecuting court.  Thereafter a fresh certificate under s. 1oof the Act was issued by the Collector and addressed to thisCourt  and the petitioner applied to this Court	 under	thatsection	 for the cancellation of the said decree granted  bythe  Order-in-Council,	the Privy Council having  ceased  tohave  any jurisdiction in the meantime.	 'The  question	 fordecision  was  whether	as a result  of	 the  constitutionalchanges	 this court could be said to have passed the  decreeand could entertain the petition.Held, that the petition must be allowed.The  combined effect of ss. 5 and 8 of the Abolition of	 thePrivy  Council jurisdiction Act, 1949, and Arts. 374(2)	 and135 of the Constitution was that this petition which lay  tothe   Privy  Council  before  it  ceased  to  exercise	 itsjurisdiction, could be presented to the Federal Court beforethe commencement of the Constitution and thereafter to	thisCourt.The  certificate  issued by the Collector and  addressed  tothis  Court was, therefore, valid and must be  given  effectto.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Misc. Petition NO.	 530of 1959.222Petition  for cancellation of the decree dated November	 25,1949,  granted to the Respondent by the Order-in-Council  inPrivy Council Appeal No. XI of 1948.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General for India and B.   R. L.Iyengar, for the petitioner.K. R. Bengeri and A. G. Ratnaparkhi, for the respondent.1960.  March 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-This petition has been made under s.  10of  the	 Bombay Hereditary Offices  Act,  1874	(hereinaftercalled	the Act), for cancellation of the decree granted  tothe  respondent by the Order in Council dated  November	 25,1949, in so far as the said decree purports to operate on orinclude any right to the office of the Patilki and 11  Watanlands  attached	 thereto.   These  lands  are  situated	  atKirtgeri  in the Taluk of Gadag.  They form part of a  Watanand,  according	 to  the revenue  records,  they  have	beenassigned  as  remuneration to the officiator  for  the	timebeing under s. 23 of the Act.  The petitioner has obtained acertificate prescribed under s. 10, and he contends that  asa  result of the said certificate this Court  should  cancelthe decree as claimed by him inthe petition.It appears that the respondent had filed a suit against	 thepetitioner  in	the Court of the First Class  Sub  Judge  atDharwar (Civil Suit No. 18 of 1934) and in the said suit  hehad claimed partition and possession of the properties as anadopted son of Shiddangouda.  These properties were and	 arein the possession of the petitioner.  The trial court passeda  decree in favour of the respondent.	The petitioner	thenpreferred  an appeal, No. 182 of 1935, in the High Court  ofBombay.	 His appeal was allowed and the decree passed by thetrial  court was reversed.  The respondent  then  challengedthe  High Court decree and went up to the Privy	 Council  inAppeal	No.  11 of 1948.  His appeal was  allowed,  and	 thePrivy Council held that the decree passed by the trial courtshould	be  restored.  Accordingly an  Order-in-Council	 wasdrawn up on November 25, 1949; under this order223the  respondent was entitled to recover by partition a	halfshare  in the properties in suit.  He was also	entitled  tomesne  profits,	 past  and  future,  till  the	recovery  ofpossession  or	three years and an enquiry was	directed  inthat behalf.  Amongst the properties in which the respondenthad  thus become entitled to claim a share are the 11  landsin question.In due course the respondent filed an execution	 applicationDarkhast  No.  41 of 1950, in the Court of  the	 SubordinateJudge at Dharwar.  The petitioner then contended that the 11lands  in  question were governed by the provisions  of	 theAct, they were assigned as remuneration to the office of thePatil,	and as such they could not be partitioned.   It	 wasalso  urged  on	 his behalf that in the	 original  suit	 therespondent  had	 not  claimed any declaration  that  he	 wasentitled  to  the office of Patil and that  without  such  aclaim  the 11 lands in question could not be claimed by	 therespondent.  In support of these pleas the petitioner reliedupon  the provisions of the Act contained in ss. 7, 10,	 11,13, 24, 25 and 36.Pending the execution proceedings the petitioner applied forthe  grant of the prescribed certificate under s. 10 of	 theAct,  and  a  certificate  was	accordingly  issued  by	 theCollector  addressed  to the Civil Judge,  Senior  Division,Dharwar.    Thereupon	the  said  court  acted	  upon	 thecertificate  and cancelled the execution process  which	 hadbeen   issued  against	the  Patilki-assigned  property	  ofKirtgeri.   The respondent challenged the said order  beforethe  Bombay High Court and his challenge was upheld  by	 thesaid  High Court.  The High Court followed its	own  earlierFull  Bench  decision in Rachapa v. Amingouda (1)  and	heldthat the certificate issued by the Collector under s. 10 wasinvalid	 in that it was addressed not to the  Privy  Councilwhich was the court which passed the decree but to the CivilJudge  at Dharwar.  In the result the order  cancelling	 theexecution  process  which had been passed by  the  executingcourt  was  set aside and a direction was  issued  that	 theexecution proceedings should proceed according to law.Thereafter  the	 petitioner  applied  for  a  reissue  of  acertificate under s. 10 and prayed that the certificate(1)  (1881) V BOM. 283.224should	be addressed to this Court as in the  meanwhile	 thePrivy Council had ceased to have any jurisdiction  and	thisCourt	had  become  its  successor.   A   certificate	 hasaccordingly  been issued on January 13, 1958,  addressed  tothis  Court.   The certificate says that  the	property  inquestion has been assigned as remuneration to the office  ofPatil  and  as	such it is inalienable	and  not  liable  toprocess	 of  civil court and so the  process  of  attachmentlevied	against the said property should be removed and	 thedecree	in so far as it relates to the said property  shouldbe  cancelled.	It appears that after this  certificate	 wasissued	by the Assistant Commissioner, Gadag  Division,	 therespondent  filed  an  appeal to  the  Deputy  Commissioner,Dharwar.   His appeal, however, failed and  the	 certificateissued by the Assistant Commissioner has been confirmed.  Itis with this certificate that the petitioner has moved	thisCourt  for  the cancellation of the decree  in	question  inregard to the 11 properties at Kirtgeri.On behalf of the respondent it has been urged before us thatthe  decision  of  the Bombay High  Court  operates  as	 resjudicata  and so, in view of the said decision, the  presentcertificate also should be held to be invalid.	The argumentis that the effect of the decision of the Bombay High  Courtis  that the certificate should have been addressed  to	 thePrivy Council, and since it is addressed to this Court it isinvalid.   We are not impressed by this argument.  What	 theBombay	High Court has held is that the certificate must  beissued	to the court which passed the decree, and if in	 lawthis Court can be said to- be in effect and in substance theCourt  that  pssed the decree then the Certificate  must  beheld  to  be  perfectly	 valid.	  Therefore,  there  is	  nosubstance  in  the  argument  of  res  judicata.   The	main'question which falls to be considered is whether this Courtcan,. in view of the constitutional changes which have takenplace  in  the meantime, be said to be the  Court  that	 haspassed	the present decree.- In our opinion, the  answer  tothis question must be in favour of the petitioner.  Lot	 us,therefore,  proceed  to	 consider  the	relevant   statutoryProvisions.225Section 2 of the Abolition of the Privy Council JurisdictionAct,  1949,  has  provided, inter alia,	 that  as  from	 theappointed  day which was October 10, 1949, the	jurisdictionof  His	 Majesty  in  Council  to  entertain'  appeals	 andpetitions'from	or  in respect of any  judgment,  decree  ororder of any court or tribunal within the territory of Indiashall	cease  save  hereinafter  provided.   Section	4(b)provides  that	nothing contained in s. 2 shall	 affect	 thejurisdiction  of  His Majesty in Council to dispose  of	 anyIndian	appeal or petition on which the, Judicial  Committeehas,  after hearing the parties, reserved  judgment   order.This provision applied to 'Appeal No. 11 of 1948 between theparties	 then- pending before the Privy Council.  Section  5conferson  the Federal Court corresponding  jurisdiction  toentertain and dispose of Indian appeals and petitions  whichHis  Majesty  in  Council  has, whether	 by  virtue  of	 HisMajesty's  prerogative or otherwise, immediately before	 theappointed day.	In other words, after the appointed day	 theFederal	 Court	was  given  jurisdiction  to  entertain	 anddispose	 of not only Indian appeals but also petitions,	 andthat  would naturally include. a petition like	the  presentwith which we are dealing.  Section 8 dealt with the  effectof  the orders of His Majesty in Council;'it  provided	thatany order made by His Majesty in Council on an Indian appealor  petition,  whether	before or after	 the  appointed	 dayshall,	for  all purposes, have the effect not only  as-  anorder  of His Majesty in Council but also as if it  were  anorder or decree made by the Federal Court in exercise of thejurisdiction  conferred	 by  this Act.	This  then  was	 theposition  with regard to the jurisdiction and powers of	 theFederal	 Court vis-a-vis the appeals and  petitions  pendingbefore the Privy Council and orders made on them.The  next relevant provisions are contained in Art. 374	 andArt. 135 of the Constitution.  Art. 374(2) provides that allsuits,	appeals and proceedings, Civil or Criminal'  pendingin   the   Federal  Court  at  the   commencement   of	 theConstitution, shall stand removed to the Supreme Court,	 andthe  Supreme  Court  shall have	 jurisdiction  to  hear	 anddetermine  the	same  and the judgments and  orders  of	 theFederal 29226Court  delivered  or  made before the  commencement  of	 theConstitution  shall  have the same force and effect  ,as  ifthey had been delivered or made by the Supreme Court.  It iswith the latter part of Art. 374(2) that we are concerned inthe  present  petition.	 We have 'I already  seen  that	 theOrder  in Council issued in accordance with the judgment  ofthe Privy Council in Appeal No. 11 of 1948 had to be treatedas  if	it was an order and decision of	 the  Federal  Courtunder  the  relevant  provisions of the Act  of	 1949.	 Nowanother	 fiction has been introduced by Art. 374(2) and	 thesaid order and decree has now to be treated as if the decreehad been passed and the 'order had been made by the  SupremeCourt.	 That takes us to Art. 135.  This  article  providesthat until Parliament by law otherwise provides the  SupremeCourt  shall also have jurisdiction and powers with  respectto  any matter to which the provisions of Art. 133  or	Art.134 do not apply, if jurisdiction and powers in relation  tothat  matter  were exercisable by the  Federal	Court  imme-diately	 before the commencement of this Constitution  underany existing law.  We have already noticed that the  FederalCourt  had  jurisdiction to deal with a	 petition  like	 thepresent	 before the commencement of the Constitution ;	thatjurisdiction can now be exercised by this Court as a  resultof Art. 135.  The position, therefore, is that the  petitionwhich could have been presented to the Privy Council if	 thejurisdiction  of  the Privy Council had not  been  abolishedcould  have been presented before the Federal  Court  beforethe commencement of the Constitution and can be presented tothis Court after the commencement of the Constitution.	 We,therefore,  feel no doubt that as a result of  the  relevantstatutory   provisions	to  which  we  have   referred	 thecertificate  issued  in the present case to  this  Court  isvalid and must be given effect to.It  is not disputed that the properties in respect of  whichthe  certificate has been issued are properties assigned  asremuneration  to  Patilki I office and are governed  by	 theprovisions  of	the Act.  It is also conceded  that  if	 thecertificate is duly issued under s.	10  of	the  Act  itmakes it obligatory on the court to227cancel the decree in regard to the properties covered by thecertificate.  Section 10 provides, inter alia, that when  itshall  appear  to  the Collector that by virtue	 of,  or  inexecution  of, a decree or order of any court any  watan  orany part thereof, or any of the profits thereof, recorded assuch  in the revenue records or registered under  this	Act,and  assigned under s. 23 as remuneration of  an  officiatorhas  or have, after the date of this Act coming into  force,passed	or  may	 pass  without the  sanction  of  the  StateGovernment  into the ownership or beneficial  possession  ofany person other than the officiator for the time being, thecourt shall, on receipt of a certificate under the hand	 andseal of the Collector, stating the particulars mentioned  inthe section, cancel the decree or order complained of so faras it concerns the said watan or any part thereof.  The onlyobjection against the validity of the certificate is that ithas  been  addressed  to  a  wrong  court.   Since  we	haveoverruled  that	 objection it follows that  portion  of	 thedecree	 which	concerns  the  watan  properties   must	  becancelled.In  the	 result the petition is allowed and  the  decree  inquestion  in so far as it purports to operate on or  includeany right to the office of Patilki and watan lands  attachedthereto	 at  Kirtgeri as enumerated in	the  certificate  iscancelled.  Under the circumstances of this case there	willbe no order as to costs.Petition allowed.