PETITIONER:THE ASIATIC STEAM NAVIGATION CO., LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SUB-LT.	 ARABINDA CHAKRAVARTIDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/01/1959BENCH:ACT:Shipping-Collision-Negligence--" Standing on " vessel-Givingway " vessel-Rights an duties-Nautical assessors-Advice	 notbinding on Court-Merchant Shipping Act, 1894 (57 & 58  Vict.c. 60) Regulations of 1910, Arts. 21, 23, 25, 27, 29.HEADNOTE:On  December  13, 1940, in the afternoon, a cargo  ship,  N,left Madras harbour bound for Calcutta heading for the	opensea.  She was being navigated in a swept channel outside the980harbour our and was on her proper, namely the starboard sideof  the channel.  At that time a patrol ship, K, was  on  anopposite  course making for Madras harbour and	entered	 thechannel	 at  about  6-25 p. m. At 6-30 p. m.  N	 decided  toovertake  K by going port on an erroneous assumption that  Kwas  going  in the same direction as N and was	not  an	 on-coming	ship.	By about 6-45 P.m. when K sighted N  on	 theport  bow the two ships were opposite each other near  aboutthe  mid-line of the channel, the distance between  the	 twobeing then a little more than a mile.  N continued her	portcourse and went over the mid-line into the wrong side of thechannel and at about 6-48 P. m. the distance between the twoships was less than a mile.  K noticed at that moment that Nwas  converging on her and accordingly in order to  avoid  acollision  K turned to hard port and gave a signal  to	thateffect.	  N, however, took starboard action to get  back  tothe  right side of the channel and get out of the way of  K.At  about 6-49 P. m. finding that a collision  was  imminentthe commander of N ordered full speed astern, but it was toolate and a collision took place at about 6-5I P. m.The appellant, the owner of N, instituted a suit for damagesagainst	 the  respondent,  who was one of  the	officers  incharge	of and responsible for the navigation of K,  on	 theplea  that  the	 collision  was	 caused	 by  the   negligentnavigation  of K. The trial judge who had been	assisted  bynautical advisers, held that K wrongly altered her course atthe moment when she did, and if any step had to be taken sheshould have altered not to port but to starboard, and if anyother action was necessary, she should have put her  enginesfull  speed astern.  On appeal, the High Court,	 which	alsohad  the assistance of two assessors, reversed the  findingsof the trial court and dismissed the suit.  On appeal to theSupreme	 Court, the appellant contended that K	should	haveanticipated that sooner or later N would correct her mistakeand go to the starboard side of the channel and,  therefore,as the " standing on" vessel, K should have kept her  courseand  speed  as	required by Art. 21 Of	the  Regulations  of1910,  made under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, and	thatif she had done so, there would have been no collision.	  Asin  the lower courts, this Court also had the assistance  oftwo assessors.Held, that K was justified in taking port action at 6-48  p.m. when a collision seemed imminent, in view of Arts. 27 and29  of	the  Regulations under which  when  a  vessel  findsherself	 so close to another vessel that a collision  cannotbe  avoided by the action of the "giving way" vessel  alone,she  must  also take such action as will best aid  to  avertcollision.Held, further, that it was an act of negligence on the	partof N to take hard starboard action, instead of following theprovisions  of	Art. 23, as the " giving way  "	 vessel,  byslackening  the speed of or reversing N between 6-45  p.  m.and 6-48 p. m."The  Tioga  ", (1945) 78 LI.  L. Rep. 1 and  "	 The  EmpireBrent ", (1948) 81 LI.	L. Rep. 306, distinguished.		     981The  function of nautical assessors is to advise  the  courtupon  nautical matters but the decision of the	court  restsentirely with the court and even in purely nautical  mattersthe  court  is	I  not bound to follow	the  advice  of	 theassessors,  but on questions of nautical science  and  skillgreat attention must be paid to the opinion of the assessorssince  they  are  the only source of  information  on  thesepoints and some reason must be given for disregarding them.The  assessors	in an appeal court are not  substituted	 forthose consulted in the trial court ; they are additional  tothem;  and  if	one  adviser  or  two  advisers	 are  to  bepreferred,  it is because in the judgment of the  court	 theadvice given is such as, in itself, is the more acceptable.The relevant articles of the Regulations of 1910, made underthe  Merchant  Shipping	 Act,  1894,  are  set	out  in	 thejudgment.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 229 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated February 28, 1952,of  the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 34 of 1952,  arisingout  of the judgment and decree dated February 5,  1951,  ofthe said High Court in Admiralty Suit No. 1 of 1943.S.   C. Isaacs, P. N. Bhagwati, S. N. Mukherjee and B. N.Ghosh, for the appellants.E.   E.	 Jhirad	 and T.	 M. Sen, for the  respondent.1959.  January 12.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.K. DAS, J.-This appeal on a certificate given by the	HighCourt  of  Judicature at Bombay is from the  decision  of  aDivision  Bench of the said High Court in Appeal No.  34  of1951,  dated February 27 and 28, 1952, by which it  reversedthe  decision  of a single Judge of the said High  Court  inAdmiralty Suit No. 1 of 1943 dated August 8, 1950.The  appellant, Asiatic Steam Navigation Company Ltd., is  acompany	  incorporated	in  the	 United	 Kingdom  with	 itsregistered  office in London and has an office in  Calcutta.The  respondent is ex-Sub-Lieutenant  Arabinda	Chakravarti,who at all material times was a commissioned officer in	 thethen Royal Indian Navy with its headquarters at Bombay.	 Theaction which the appellant brought arose out of a  collisionin982a  swept  channel,  a little  distance	outside	 the  Madrasharbour,  on December 13, 1940, at about 6-51 p.m.  The	 twoships  concerned in the collision were the cargo vessel,  S.S. Nizam of 5,322 gross tons and H. M. S. Kalawati, a patrolship   of  1,185  tons.	  For  the  sake  of   brevity	 andconvenience,  these two vessels will be referred to in	thisjudgment as the Nizam and Kalawati.  At all material  times,the  appellant	owned the Nizam and the respondent,  it	 wasstated, was one of the officers in charge of and responsiblefor the navigation of the Kalawati . One F. C. H. Mason	 wasthe  Chief Officer of the Nizam and the Master	was  MalcolmJohn  McLure.  Henry Lee was the Commander of  the  Kalawatiand  Arabinda Chakravarti, as stated above, was one  of	 theofficers in charge of and responsible for the navigation  ofthe Kalawati at the relevant time.The  case set out by the appellant in the plaint  was  this.On December 13, 1940, in the afternoon the Nizam, which	 wasthen under charter to the Ministry of Shipping, left  Madrasharbour	 bound for Calcutta carrying a cargo.  She was	thentight,	staunch,  strong, well manned and in  every  respectsound  and  fit.   A few minutes after 6-45  p.m.  when	 theweather was fine, clear but cloudy, the moon full, the	windmoderate, the sea calm and the set of the tide from north tosouth,	the  Nizam was being navigated in  a  swept  channeloutside	  the  Madras  harbour.	  The  swept   channel	 wagapproximately about one mile wide and seventeen miles  long.The Nizam was heading for the open sea on her proper  courseto  Calcutta  and  was	being  navigated  in  a	 proper	 andseamanlike  manner  and	 was  on  her  proper,	namely	 thestarboard  side	 of  the channel.  The Kalawati	 was  on  anopposite course making for Madras harbour.  The Nizam havingthe  Kalawati  about one point on her  starboard  bow  star-boarded with the result that the two vessels were about	 onemile  apart on courses which would result in  their  passingfrom  -port  to port with a distance of about  half  a	milebetween	 them.	At that time, the Kalawati made a " light  "signal	to  the Nizam; the signal was not  legible  and	 theNizam sent a signal983which asked for a repetition of the signal of the  Kalawati.The  Nizam  continued hard to starboard,  but  the  Kalawutialtered course to port with the result that the Kalawati wasconverging on the course of the Nizam.	The Nizam  continuedto  go	to starboard and the Kalawati to  port;	 thereafter,when  a	 collision seemed very imminent, the Nizam  was	 putfull speed astern, but the Kalawati was navigated across thebows  of  the Nizam and the result was	that  the  starboardquarter of the Kalawati came into collision with the bows ofthe Nizam.  The Kalawati then pivoted round the bows of	 theNizam and again came into collision with the latter.   Afteralleging  the facts stated above, the appellant	 pleaded  inthe  plaint that the collision was caused by  the  negligentnavigation of the Kalawati and the following particulars  ofthat negligence were given: (a) alteration of the Kalawati'scourse	to  port so as to take her across the  bows  of	 theNizam;	(b) failure of the Kalawati to stop or to go  asternand/or	to put her helm hard a-starboard when there was	 yettime  for her to do so and avoid a collision; (c) in  breachof  the Regulations for the Prevention of Collisions at	 Seathe Kalawati failed to keep to her proper side, namely,	 thestarboard  side of the channel, when it was her duty  to  doso,  and further the Kalawati failed to keep out of the	 wayof the Nizam when it was her duty to do so and (d) a  properlook-out was not kept on board the Kalawati. The total claimwhich the appellant preferred forthe damage sustained was  asum  of Rs. 88,000 and odd and particlars of the claim	wereset out in sch.	 B of the plaint.In his written statement the respondent denied any liabilityfor  the  damage sustained by the Nizam.  The  case  of	 therespondent  as set out in his written statement was, to	 putit  briefly, this.  The respondent said that at	 about	6-45p.m.  on December 13, 1940, he was the officer on watch	 andthe Kalawati was steering a course north 800 west keeping tothe  Kalawati's proper side of the channel.  The  Nizam	 wassighted	 at about that time, about 20' on the port side	 andabout 2 1/2 miles away, heading for the open sea and984steering  eastwards  and  running a  parallel  and  oppositecourse.	  Due to certain wartime regulations, the lights  ofboth the vessels were blacked out.  According to the courseswhich  the  Nizam and the Kalawati were then  pursuing	theywould  have  passed each other clear port to  port  and	 therespondent  signalled  to the Nizam with  a  portable  AldisLamp,  and asked for her identity.  The Nizam  replied	withone  long  flash indicating that she was  ready	 to  receivesignals	 from the Kalawati.  As the respondent was about  tocontinue  signalling, he noticed that the Nizam altered	 hercourse	to port in such a manner that she was converging  onand  crossing  the course of the Kalawati.   The  respondentthen  stopped signalling and as the Nizam continued  on	 thewrong  course taken by her until her bows were fine on	the.port bows of the Kalawati, a collision seemed imminent,	 thetwo vessels then being about two cables apart.	In order  toavert the imminent risk of collision the respondent  orderedthe  Kalawati  to  be  put  hard  aport	 and  simultaneouslyindicated  to  the Nizam the alteration	 of  the  Kalawati'scourse.	  The  Nizam,  however, instead of  keeping  to	 thecourse already taken by her and passing the Kalawati on	 thestarboard side, erroneously attempted to correct the earlierwrong  course taken by her and attempted to go back  to	 herproper	side  of the channel.  The Nizam  then	altered	 hercourse	to  hard  starboard with the  result  that  the	 twovessels were in such a position that it was not -possible toavert  a  collision either by slackening the  speed  of	 theKalawati or by going astern.  In substance, the case of	 therespondent  was	 that  the  collision  was  caused  by	 thecircumstances  (a)  that  the Nizam failed to  keep  to	 herproper side of the channel, (b) that she continued to  -portin  such  a  manner as to put the  Kalawati  in	 a  perilousposition  and the Kalawati had to take avoiding	 action	 andfinally	 (c) the Nizam was negligent in altering her  courseto  hard astarboard after being made aware  repeatedly	thatthe  course  of	 the  Kalawati had  been  altered  to  port.Therefore,  according to the respondent, the action  of	 theNizam  in steering starboard after Kalawati had	 taken	portaction,	 was  the  proximate  and  effective  cause  of	 thecollision.985On  the pleadings' stated above, several issues were  framedbut  the  principal question for decision  by  the.  learnedtrial Judge was if it was the negligent action' of the Nizamor of the Kalawati which caused the collision.	Issues 1,  2and  3	were the issues which related to this  question.   Afurther	 question  was	raised by issues 4 and	6  and	thatrelated to contributory negligence, and in case it was foundthat  both the vessels were to blame for the collision,	 thequestion raised was in what proportion the negligence of theNizam and of the Kalawati contributed to the collision.	 Thelearned	  trial	 Judge	found  in  favour  of  the   presentappellant.  on	the  principal question	 and  expressed	 hisfinding in the following words:-" I have come to the finding that the first helm action	 wastaken-and  rightly  taken-at the crucial time by  the  Nizamgoing hard astarboard, and the Kalawati turned to port	whenthere	was   no   question  of	  the	imminence   of	 anycollision...........  In these circumstances, as a  standingon vessel the Kalawati turned - and wrongly in my opinion  -to  port  and  but for her turning to  port,  there  was  noquestion  of  the  two	vessels	 coining.  into	 a  perilousposition.  In these circumstances, I am of the opinion	thatthe  Nizam was justified in starboarding.  The Kalawati	 hadto  keep  her  course under the rule  being  a	standing  onvessel, and should have maintained her course in that manneruntil  the  last safe moment, but to my mind she  turned  toport much before any such occasion arose.  On this point,  Imay say that had the Kalawati to take any action at all, thenormal	action would have been going to starboard, and	thiswould have completely avoided the collision.  On this  pointI  may	state  that the nautical advisers whom	I  have	 hadoccasion  to  consult are in agreement with the	 view  I  amadopting.I  may	also  state that in my opinion	the  Nizam  put	 itsengines	 full  speed  astern at	 the  earliest	opportunity,looking	 to  the situation.  The Nizam was  put	 full  speedastern	at  least  2 1/2 minutes  approximately	 before	 thecollision took place, and even if the statement of124986McLure	that  she was dead slow before the  collision  is  aslight	overstatement  it must follow that the back  of	 themomentum  of  the Nizam had already been wholly	 broken	 andthere  is  evidence that she was doing about 3	to  4  knotsinstead	 of  her 9 to 10 knots normal speed.  On  the  otherband, I am clearly of the opinion that it was  fundamentallywrong for the Captain of the Kalawati not to put her enginesfull  speed  astern  immediately he saw	 the  situation	 wasperilous.  In fact, instead of doing so, he went full  speedahead.	To my mind, that was not only a wrong judgment but ajudgment  inspired by desperation, namely, that	 by  puttingthem  full  spied ahead with a bit of luck,  he	 would	havecleared himself of the nose of the Nizam.I have, therefore, come to the conclusion that the  Kalawatiwrongly	 altered her course at the moment when she did,	 andif  any step had to be taken she should have altered not  toport  but  to  starboard,  and	if  any	 other	action	 wasnecessary,  she	 should	 have put  her	engines	 full  speedastern." -In  view of the aforesaid findings, the learned trial  Judgeexpressed  the	view  that  the	 question  of	contributorynegligence  did	 not  arise, as also the  question  in	whatproportion each contributed to the collision.The question ofdamages	 was, by agreement, held over until the findings  onthe  question  of negligence and, after	 the  learned  trialJudge  had given the necessary findings on the	question  ofnegligence,  the damage sustained by the Nizam was  assessedat  Rs. 76,893-2-8 and a decree was passed for	that  amountwith interest thereon at four per cent. per annum from	June19, 1941.The  respondent then preferred an appeal and the appeal	 washeard	by  Chagla,  C.	 J.,  and  Bhagwati,  J.  Like	 thetrial  Judge, the Judges who heard the appeal also  had	 theassistance of two assessors.  On the principal question.  asto,  whether-  the  collision was caused  by  the  negligentaction.	 of  'the  Nizam or of the'  Kalawati,	the  learnedJudges	who  heard the appeal reversed the findings  of	 thelearned trial Judge. They said:"Therefore, in our opinion, on this evidence, we987must find as a fact that the Nizam did not alter her  courseto  starboard  at 6-45 p.m., but she did so much  later	 andvery likely at 6-48 p.m. when she gave one blast to indicatethe change of course.  'Now, if that is the fact we find, wehave to consider what bearing that finding of fact has	uponthe question of the defendant's negligence.  The question iswhether	 the defendant was justified in turning his ship  toport  at  6-48 p.m. if at that moment the  Nizam  was  stillsteering  to  port.  The question is whether  at  6-48	p.m.there  was  a reasonable probability of	 a  collision  whichjustified  the	Kalawati in changing her course to  port  inorder  to avoid that collision.	 We have the plan before  usand we have the evidence before us, but as this question  offact  involves a question of nautical skill we have  availedourselves  of  the assistance of the  assessors.   CommanderKale is emphatically of the opinion that at 6-48 p.m. if theNizam  was pursuing the same course that she was doing	from6-38 p.m., there was a reasonable probability of a collisionwhich  it was the duty of the defendant to avoid as best  ashe  could, and according to Commander Kale, the only way  hecould  have possibly avoided it was by steering his ship  toport.	Capt.	Malcolm does not agree with this  view.	  Hetakes the' view that the Kalawati should have rather  turnedto  starboard than to port, and his opinion is based on	 theconsideration that the Kalawati should have assumed that  atsometime or other the Nizam would turn starboard and  takingthat possibility into consideration she should have gone  tothe  right side and not to the wrong side.  With respect  toCapt.  Malcolm, we are inclined to prefer the opinion  givenby Commander Kale as to what should have been done under thecircumstances...  Now,	as the Nizam was the "	giving	way"vessel,	 there	was  the  primary  obligation  upon  her  ifnecessary  to  stop  the ship or to go astern,	and  on	 theevidence  it is difficult to resist the conclusion that	 theorder to go full speed astern, could have been given earliereither	by the Captain himself or by Mason.  On	 this  pointboth  the assessors have expressed their opinion that  as  amatter of nautical skill988it would have been possible and indeed it should have  ,beendone,  viz.,  that the ship should have been ordered  to  gofull speed astern earlier than 6-49 p.m.In  our opinion, therefore, there are these two facts  whichhave definitely contributed to the collision taking place at6-52 p.m. The first is the failure on the part of the  Nizamto  give  the  signal that she	was  going  starboard,	evenassuming  that	we  accept the	plaintiffs'  case  that	 shestarboarded at 6-45 p.m. If she had given the signal then itwould have given proper and full warning to the Kalawati  asto  what the Nizam was doing or going to do at that  moment.The other fact which has also contributed in our opinion  tothe collision is the failure on the part of the Nizam to  gofull speed astern earlier than 6-49 p.m." In the result, theappeal	was  allowed  and the action of	 the  appellant	 wasdismissed with costs throughout.We have already stated that the High Court of Bombay gave  acertificate  of fitness under Art. 133 of  the	Constitutionand  the  present appeal has been brought to this  Court  inpursuance of that certificate.Two  assessors,	 Capt.	 J. A. Cleeve and  Commodore  A.  K.Chatterjee,  have  assisted us.	 At the very outset,  it  isnecessary  to clarify two points.  Firstly, it appears	thatthe  learned Judges who heard the appeal in the Bombay	HighCourt  did  not base their findings on the evidence  of	 therespondent or his witnesses; nor did the learned trial Judgeattach	 any  great  importance	 to  the  evidence  of	 therespondent or his witnesses.  The learned Judges said:-"  We  do  not blame the learned  Judge	 because,  when	 theevidence of both these witnesses was laid before us, we alsofelt that the evidence was not given in a manner which wouldinspire confidence."Learned	 counsel for the appellant has placed before  us  infull  the evidence of the appellant and its  witnesses.	  Hehas  also placed before us such portions of the evidence  ofthe respondent and his witnesses as, in his opinion, supportthe  case of the appellant.  In arriving at our	 conclusionswe  have  also proceeded on the footing that as	 the  courtsbelow  did  not consider the evidence  of  the	respondent'switnesses to be reliable,989the principal question of negligence must be decided on	 theevidence of the appellant's witnesses.	The trial Judge tookone  view  of that evidence and the Judges'  who  heard	 theappeal	took  another  view.   There  being  no	  concurrentfindings,  we allowed learned counsel for the  appellant  toplace  the  entire  evidence of	 the  appellant's  witnessesbefore	us in support of his contentions.  The	other  pointrelates	 to the assessors.  It has not been disputed  beforeus that the function of nautical assessors is to advise	 thecourt upon nautical manners and as Scott, L. J., said in TheClan Lamont (1):"............ their advice is expert evidence, admissible inAdmiralty Courts, on all issues of fact about seamanship."The  decision of the case, however, rests entirely with	 thecourt  and even in purely nautical matters the court is	 notbound to follow the advice of assessors, but on questions ofnautical science and skill great attention must obviously bepaid to the opinion of the assessors since they are the onlysource of information on these points and some reason shouldbe  given for disregarding them.  In the Australia (2)	LordDunedin	 deprecated putting to assessors a question that  istantamount  to asking them whether they would find  for	 theplaintiff or the defendant and repudiated the idea that	 theviews  of the assessors in an appeal court are	entitled  tomore  respect than those of assessors below.  The  assessorsin an appeal court are not substituted for those  previouslyconsulted;  they are additional to them; and if one  adviseror  two advisers are to be preferred, it is because  in	 thejudgment  of  the  court the advice given  is  such  as,  initself, is the more acceptable.	 There can be no question ofany  appeal from one set of assessors to another.   We	havefollowed  the same principles with regard to the  advice  ofthe assessors given in this case and we shall refer to	suchadvice in the course of this judgment when it has a  bearingon the questions at issue before us.The principal point for determination in this case is  whichof the two, the Nizam or the Kalawati, was(1)  (1946)  79	 LI.   L. Rep. 521,  524  (Lloyds  List	 LawReports).(2)  [1927] A. C. 145.990responsible for the collision; and if both were responsible,what  is the extent of the responsibility of each ?   For  adetermination  of these questions it is necessary  first  tofind what courses the aforesaid two boats were, following atthe  relevant time and what changes of course were  made  bythem.  These facts have to be determined first and in  doingso  we must keep in mind some of the regulations made  underthe,  Merchant Shipping Act, 1894.  It has been admitted  bycounsel	 for both -parties that these Regulations apply, andare  concerned with the Regulations of 1910,  namely,  thosemade  by an order in Council dated October 13,	1910.	Theyembody rules which were to be followed at the relevant	timeby  all	 vessels  upon	the high seas,	and  in	 all  watersconnected   therewith	navigable  by	sea-going   vessels.Articles 17 to 27 of the 1910 Regulations relate to steeringand sailing rules.  Article 17 applies to  sailing  vessels,and  Art.  18 to steam vessels. Article, 18 says  in  effectthat when two steam vessels are meeting end on or Dearly endon so as to involve risk of collision, each should alter hercourse	to starboard so that each may pass on the port	sideof the other.  Article 19 is in these terms:Art.  19.   "When two steam vessels are crossing,  so  as toinvolve risk of collision, the vessel which has the other onher  own  starboard side shall keep out of the	way  of	 theother."The vessel which has to keep out of the way of the other  iscalled the " give way " vessel and the other is called the "standing  on"  vessel.	In the case before us  there  is  nodispute	 that  the  Nizam was the give way  vessel  and	 theKalawati   the	standing  on  vessel. Article  21  has	somebearing	 on  the question at the issue before us and  is  inthese terms:Art.  21.  " Where by any of these Rules one of two  vesselsis  to keep out of the way, the other shall keep her  courseand speed."Article 23 says :"  Every  steam vessel which is directed by these  Rules  tokeep out of the way of another vessel shall, on	 approachingher, if necessary, slacken her speed or stop or reverse."991Article	 24 says inter alia that notwithstanding any.  thingin  the Rules, every vessel overtaking another,	 shall	keepout of the way of the overtaken vessel.	 Article 25 is	veryimportant  for	our  purpose, as  learned  counsel  for	 theappellant  has	placed great reliance on it.   This  Articlemust, be quoted in extenso.Art.  25.   " In narrow channels every steam  vessel  shall,when  it is safe and practicable, keep to that side  of	 thefairway	 or mid-channel which lies on the starboard  side-ofsuch vessel."There has been considerable difficulty in defining a " narrowchannel	 ",  and in the trial court the	 present  respondentdenied that the swept channel outside the Madras harbour wasa  narrow channel within the meaning of Art.  25  aforesaid.The courts below proceeded, however, on the footing that thechannel in question was a narrow channel within the  meaningof  the said Article and we have also proceeded on the	samefooting.  Article 27 is also important for our purpose.	  Itsays:Art.  27.   "  In obeying and construing  these	 Rules,	 dueregard	shall  be  had	to all	dangers	 of  navigation	 andcollision, and to any special circumstances which may rendera departure from the above Rules necessary in order to avoidimmediate danger."Articles  29 and 30 are two residuary Articles.	 Article  29inter  alia says that nothing in the Rules  shall  exonerateany  vessel from the consequences of any neglect to  keep  aproper	look out or of the neglect of any  precaution  whichmay  be required by the ordinary practice of seamen,  or  bythe special circumstances of the case, and Art. 30 says thatnothing in the Rules shall interfere with the operation of aspecial	 rule, duly made by a local authority,	relative  tothe navigation of any harbour, river or inland waters.We  proceed  now  to a consideration of	 the  evidence	withregard	to  those facts on which the  determination  of	 thequestion  of  negligence depends in this case.	 We  do	 notpropose	 to  embark on a very detailed third review  of	 theevidence  given in the case, but shall confine ourselves  tothose  salient points which, in our view, are  determinativeof the principal question at902issue  between the parties, namely, that of negligence	,forthe  collision	which  took place at about  6-51  p.  m.  onDecember  13, 1940.  We shall for that purpose refer to	 theevidence  of Mason, McLure and Abdul Nabi,  three  witnessesfor  the  appellant.  As to the effect of  the	evidence  ofthese  three  witnesses, the learned Judges  who  heard	 theappeal	in  the	 Bombay	 High  Court  came  to	 conclusionsdifferent  from those of the learned trial Judge and one  ofthe  points for our consideration will be if  the  appellateCourt  gave good and convincing reasons for  differing	fromthe view of the evidence which the learned trial Judge took.It  may	 be stated here that the aforesaid  three  witnesseswere examined by Blagden, J., in April, 1945, and  February,1946,  and  that  learned Judge made some notes	 as  to	 themanner	in  which the three witnesses gave  their  evidence.Our  attention	has  been drawn to those  notes	 by  learnedcounsel for the appellant.  Blagden, J., however had  ceasedto  be a Judge of the Court before the suit was tried.	 Therespondent  and	 his  witnesses were  examined	in  1950  byCoyajee, J., who tried the suit and gave judgment in  favourof the appellant.It  appears  from the evidence that at about  4-45  p.m.  onDecember  13,  1940, the Nizam took the pilot on  board	 andproceeded to sea.  At about 5-22 p.m. the pilot was  droppedand she proceeded at full speed under McLure's orders up theswept  channel, the speed being about 10 1/2 knots.   McLurehanded	over to Mason at about 5-55 p.m. and the  Nizam	 wasthen  steering	a course north 86 degree east,	making	someallowance  for	the leeway to port for the set of  the	tidefrom north to south.  At about 6 p.m. the third officer	 re-lieved Mason; Mason returned to the bridge at 6-30 p.m.	 andtook  over from the third officer.  Mason said that  be	 hadchecked	 the bearings of the Nizam just before he  left	 thebridge	at 6 p.m. and she was then two cables on the  properside  of  the  channel.	 Soon after 6-30 p.m.  Mason  saw  avessel about two points on the starboard bow of the Nizam ata distance of about three miles.  Mason's evidence was	thathe thought then that the Nizam was overtaking993that other vessel which must have been the Kalawati.  At  6-38  p.m. Mason altered the course of the Nizam 8  degree  toport,  because	he thought that the Nizam and  the  Kalawatiwere  on converging courses.  At 6-43 p.m. the	look-out  onthe  Nizam rang the bell twice indicating a vessel viz.	 theKalawati  on  the starboard side.  Mason then said  that  atabout  6-45  p.m.  the Kalawati was about one  mile  on	 theNizam's starboard bow and was clearly seen to be crossing tostarboard port.	 The Kalawati then made an Aldis lamp signaland  Mason  replied I.M.I. with a torch which  asked  for  arepetition  of the signal.  Mason then ordered	bard  astar-board;	he did this because under certain wartime  orders  amerchant  vessel  had  to  turn	 away  from  any  ship	thatsignalled.  At 6-47 p.m. the Kalawati was several points  onthe  port  bow	of the Nizam and near about  6-48  p.m.	 theKalawati  altered  her	course to  port	 and  indicated	 thealteration by two short blasts.	 Mason replied by one  shortblast  indicating that the Nizam was turning  to  starboard.At  about  6-49 p.m. McLure came on board and he  rang	fullspeed  astern.	By about 6-51 p.m., however,  the  collisiontook place.The  above  gives in brief a summary of	 the  events  which,according to Mason, led to the collision.  McLure's evidencewas  that  he returned to the bridge at about 6-48  p.m.  onhearing two short blasts from the Kalawati, and on coming tothe  bridge  he saw that the Kalawati was turning  to  port.McLure	at once ordered full speed astern and  caused  threeshort blasts to be given; but the collision occurred  withinabout two minutes.  Abdul Nabi was the Quarter Master of theNizam.	 His evidence was to the effect that Mason  came  onthe bridge at about 6-30 p.m. and at that time the Nizam wassteering a course north 86 degree east.	 At about 6-40	p.m.(Abdul Nabi said that it was ten minutes after Mason came onthe  bridge) be received an order to steer 8 degree to	portand  he did so.	 Some five or ten minutes after he  receivedanother	 order to go to starboard, that is, to	the  Nizam'sformer course.	Then came the last order to hard  astarboardand this was at about the time when Abdul Nabi board two125994blasts	from  the Kalawati.  It may be	here  remarked	thatAbdul Nabi's evidence differs essentially from that of Masonas to the time when the Nizam went hard astarboard and	alsoas to the sequence of events which led to the alteration  ofthe  Nizam's  course from north 86 degree east to  8  degreeport first, then to her former course and then again to hardastarboard.  We shall later return to these discrepancies.The  three circumstances, however, which stand out from	 theevidence  of Mason are-(a) that the Nizam was on the  properside  of the channel at about 6-45 p.m.; (b) she  turned  tohard  astarboard at about 6-45 p.m. in order to present	 herstern  to  the Kalawati in compliance with  certain  wartimeorders;	 and (c) the Kalawati turned to port at	 about	6-48p.m.  after she had seen the Nizam turn to  hard  astarboardsome three minutes earlier.  If Mason's evidence is  correctwith  regard  to the aforesaid three circumstances  and	 theKalawati turned to port after she had seen the Nizam turn tohard  astarboard and if at the time the Kalawati was on	 thewrong  side  of the channel, then there can be	very  littledoubt  as  to  where the responsibility	 for  the  collisionshould	lie.   Coyajee, J., accepted Mason's  evidence	withregard	to the aforesaid three circumstances and  held	thatthe  responsibility for the collision lay on  the  Kalawati,because she turned to port at the time she did after  havingseen  the Nizam turn to hard astarboard some  three  minutesearlier.   The learned Judges who heard the appeal  did	 notaccept as correct Mason's evidence that the Nizam turned  tohard  astarboard at about 6-45 p.m. in order to present	 herstern  to the Kalawati ; on the contrary, from the  evidenceof  McLure and Abdul Nabi read with the evidence  of  Mason,they came to the conclusion that it was impossible to acceptthe appellant's case that the Nizam turned starboard at 6-45p.m. and it was more likely that she turned to starboard  atabout  6-48  p.m.  after she had heard	the  signal  of	 theKalawati that she was turning to port.	In other words,	 thelearned	 Judges found that the Kalawati had turned  to	portfirst in order to avoid an imminent risk of collision and itwas then that the Nizam995altered	 her  course  to starboard in order to	get  to	 theproper side of the channel.The  question  before  us is which of  these  two  views  iscorrect.  On a careful consideration of the evidence and thesubmissions made thereon by learned counsel for the parties,we  are of the opinion that the view of the  learned  Judgeswho heard the appeal is the correct view.  According to	 theevidence  of  Mason, he checked the bearings  of  the  Nizambefore	he  left the bridge at 6 p.m. and  on  checking	 thebearings from the Madras Light House and a conspicuous whitehouse  on the north side of the harbour, he found  that	 theNizam was two cables on the proper side of the channel.	  Itappears	 that  there  should have been a dan  buoy  in	mid-channel to mark the mid-line.  Mason said that he looked forit  , but did not find it.  There was a fairway buoy at	 theend  of the channel, that is, near the mouth of the  channelfrom  the  open sea.  It is not disputed that  the  Kalawatientered the channel south of the fairway buoy and was at thetime  of the entry into the channel on the wrong side.	 Thequestion, however, is what was the position of the two boatsat  the relevant time, namely, at about 6-45 p.m.  when	 thedistance  between  the	two boats was about a  mile  or	 so.Mason's	 evidence itself shows that at about 6-45 p.m.	boththe  boats were near about the mid-line of the channel.	  Itis  to	be remembered that though the Nizam  was  about	 twocables	on the proper side of the channel at about  6  p.m.,she  had  altered her course 80 to port, even  according  toMason,	at about 6-38 p.m. Abdul Nabi's	 evidence  indicatedthat the Nizam had altered her course to port by about	10'.Even  allowing	for the set of the tide, if  the  Nizam	 hadcontinued  in  her  port course in  order  to  overtake	 theKalawati  (as Mason was then under the impression  that	 theNizam was overtaking the Kalawati), she would cross the mid-line  and  go  into the wrong side of the  channel.   It  isworthy	of note that in the plaint there was no	 mention  ofthe  circumstance that the Nizam altered her course to	portin  order to overtake the Kalawati, on the wrong  impressionthat - both the boats were going in the same direction.	 Butbe that996as  it may, it is quite clear that the Nizam did alter	,hercourse	to port at about 6-38 p.m, and if she  continued  inthat course till about 6-48 p.m., she would be near the mid-line of the channel or just across it at the relevant  time.Mason admitted this and said in cross-examination: " At	 18-45 1 was just about in the mid-channel and the Kalawati	 wasthen steering a crossing course ". Mason prepared a chart toshow  the position of the two boats and this was  marked  asExt.  A. This chart also showed that at about 6-45 p.m.	 theNizam was on the mid-line and if the Nizam had continued herport course she would be on the wrong side of the channel atabout  6-48  p.m. Even though the Kalawati had	entered	 thechannel south of the fairway buoy, which was her wrong side,she  was steering a course north 80 degree west,  making  anallowance for a southerly drift of about 1 or 1.5 knots.  Bysteering  that	course the Kalawati would also be  near	 themid-line of the channel at about, 6-45 p.m. She would be  onher right side of the channel at 6-46 p.m. This is also madeclear  from  the  chart, Ext.  A. Learned  counsel  for	 theappellant repudiated the correctness of the chart, Ext.	  A,but it is a chart prepared by his own witness and so far  asthe position of the Nizam was concerned, the chart must havebeen  prepared	on the position and course of the  Nizam  asgiven  by  the appellant's own witnesses.  We  see  no	goodreasons	 for discarding the chart, Ext.	 A. At	our  requestthe assessors also prepared a chart showing the position  ofthe two boats on the following	assumptions:.(a)     Nizam'sspeed about 10.2 knots,(b)    Kalawati's   speed  about	  11knots, (c) the set of the tide about.71 knots and (d) lengthof the swept channel about 18 miles.  This chart also showedthat  at about 6-45 p.m. the Nizam was on the  mid-line	 andthe Kalawati had crossed the mid-line into her right side ofthe channel.  If the set of the tide was two knots or  threeknots,	as some of the witnesses said, then both  the  Nizamand the Kalawati would be outside the swept channel, and  ifthe Kalawati was sighted two points on the starboard bow  ofthe  Nizam she would be further south of the southern  limitof the997swept  channel.	 On a consideration of the evidence  in	 thecase it appears to us that at the relevant time, namely,  6-45 p.m., both the boats were near about the mid-line, may bea little on the right or wrong side of it, and the  distancebetween the two boats was about one mile at that time.	 Thevery elaborate argument of learned counsel for the appellantbased  on  Art. 25, which requires every steam vessel  in  anarrow channel to keep to the starboard side of the channel,loses  much  of	 its  force when we  remember  that  at	 therelevant  time the two boats were near the mid-line  of	 thechannel	 and,  according  to Mason, the	 Kalawati  was	thencrossing to starboard port.  One of the assessors, CommodoreChatterjee,  gave  as his opinion that if the  Kalawati	 wascoming	from the south, it would be easier for her to  enterthe  channel  south  of the fairway buoy and  he  would	 notconsider it as a breach of the rules of the road unless	 theKalawati  was  embarrassing another ship Coming out  of	 thechannel.  Capt.	 Cleeve said that as a merchant ship captainhe  would never do it, but as a naval ship captain he  mightdo  it	and although it might be against the spirit  of	 theregulations, it would not be a breach of them.	It is to  beremembered  again that the Kalawati entered the	 channel  atabout  6-25 p. m. and at the time the Nizam was about  sevenmiles  away.  We do not, therefore, think  the	circumstancethat  the  Kalawati entered the swept channel south  of	 thefairway	 buoy  decisive on the issue of negligence.   As  wehave remarked earlier the decisive question is what was	 theposition  of the two boats at the relevant time, namely,  atabout  6-45 p.m.? The evidence leaves no room for any  doubtthat at the relevant time the two boats were near about	 themid-line of the channel.The  question is what happened thereafter ? Mason said	thatfrom 6-38 to 6-41 p.m. he assumed that he was overtaking theKalawati;  from	 6-41 to 6-45 p.m. he was in two  minds	 andwhen  at  6-45 p.m. the Kalawati signalled the	Nizam,	thenMason came to know that the Kalawati was steering a crossingcourse.	 Mason said that he then changed to hard starboard.998This part of the evidence of Mason is flatly contradicted byAbdul  Nabi  and  is  -further	not  supported	by   severalcircumstances to which we shall presently refer.  It is truethat none of the witnesses gave the time with the  precisionof  a watch and what they said about time was more  or	lessapproximate.   Abdul Nabi was, however , very definite	thatMason  first  ordered the Nizam to steer 80  to	 port;	thenthere  was  a second order to go to the	 former	 course	 andlastly	there was an order to go hard astarboard.  If  AbdulNabi  is telling the truth, then even making  due  allowancefor the approximate nature of the times which he  mentioned,the  evidence  of Mason that he changed the  course  of	 theNizam  to  hard	 astarboard at about  6-45  p.m.  cannot  becorrect.  Then, take the following circumstances one by one.If  Mason  had	changed	 the course of	the  Nizam  to	hardastarboard,  why  did he not give a signal to  indicate	 thechange	of  course  ?  The evidence is very  clear  on	thispoint.	 It was the Kalawati which gave two short blasts  atabout  6-48 p.m. to indicate that she was changing to  port.Thereafter  the Nizam replied by one short blast  indicatingthat  she  was	changing to starboard.	 If  the  Nizam	 hadchanged	 to  starboard	three minutes earlier,	why  was  nosignal	given  ? It is necessary to refer here	to  Art.  28which  says that when vessels are in sight of one another  asteam  vessel under way shall indicate the course  taken  byher.  Mason made an attempt to say in his evidence that Art.28  was not adhered to in wartime; but then he had to  admitthat only a few minutes after, the Nizam did give one  shortblast in reply to the two short blasts of the Kalawati.	  Itis obvious that Art. 28 was not abrogated during wartime andit was the duty of the Nizam to indicate by one short  blastthat  she was changing to starboard, if she actually did  soat  6-45 p.m. We are, however, of the opinion, in  agreementwith  the  learned Judges of the appellate Bench,  that	 theNizam did not change her course to starboard at 6-45 p.m. asMason  wants  us  to believe; on  the  contrary,  the  Nizamcontinued  her	port course till about 6-48 p.	m.  and	 shechanged to starboard only after she had heard the two blastsfrom999the  Kalawati.	 This,	we think, is  clear  from  two	veryimportant  circumstances.  McLure admitted in  his  evidencethat  at  the  speed and  under	 the  conditions  prevailingimmediately  before the collision, it would take  the  Nizamabout  2 1/2 minutes to swing 90' with her helm	 hard  over.If  actually  Mason had altered the course of the  Nizam  tohard astarboard at 6-45 p.m., then she would be heading backtowards	 Madras at the time' when the collision took  place.Even  McLure  said:  " If Mason's statement  is	 correct,  Ishould	have expected my ship to be heading at right  anglesto  her former course." That was not, however, the  positionof  the Nizam when the collision took place.  The  assessorswere  agreed  that  once  the wheel  had  been	placed	hardstarboard,  it was not possible to put the wheel further  tostarboard.   If actually more than five minutes had  passed,after  the Nizam had been put hard starboard, she  would  beswinging starboard all the time and she would take a turn ofabout 180' within five minutes.	 In any event, by about 6-48p.m.  she would be at right angles to her former course,  asstated	by McLure.  We think that McLure's evidence on	thispoint  destroys	 the case of Mason that he had	altered	 theNizam's	 course. to hard astarboard at 6-45 p.m. Then  thereis  the second important circumstance that  McLure  admittedthat he knew nothing about any helm action of the Nizam from5-55 p.m. to 6-48 p.m. McLure said :" First I heard at 6-43 p.m. two bells indicating an  objecton the starboard bow.  I was still in my cabin at the  time.I  was reading Admiralty messages.  I heard two blasts	fromthe  other  ship  at 6-48 p. m. I have	no  recollection  offeeling	 any  helm  action  of	my  ship  before  that.	   Iimmediately went up on the bridge.  The Nizam did not  soundone  blast till I had reached the top of the  ladder.	Thatwould normally suggest that the Kalawati had turned to	portfirst ". McLure further said that when a ship alters  courseand   signals,	the  alteration	 and  the  signal  must	  besimultaneous.	It  would be surprising indeed	that  McLurewould  not  notice  the helm action  to	 hard  starboard  ifactually the Nizam had been put hard1000starboard  at 6-45 p.m. The assessors were asked about	thismatter	and Commodore Chatterjee said that if the  helm	 wasput  hard  over,  be would feel it even if  he	was  asleep.Capt.  Cleeve said that the master of a fast ship would feelthe  helm  action  sooner than the master of  a	 slow  ship,probably twenty to thirty seconds sooner.  McLure,  however,felt no helm action at all up till 6-48 p.m. This also showsthat  the story of Mason that he changed the course  of	 theNizam to hard astarboard at 6-45 p.m. was not correct.The  reason which Mason gave for altering the course of	 theNizam hard a-starboard at 6-45 p. m. was an alleged war-timeorder that a merchant vessel when challenged must turn	awayfrom  the  challenging	vessel.	 This  reason  is  far	fromconvincing.    No  such	 war-time  order  was  produced	  inevidence.   In	Ex. C (Surveyor's report dated	January	 27,1941) the reason for the starboard action was stated thus:-"  At  6-45 p. m. the other vessel appeard to be  about	 onepoint on the starboard bow and about one mile distant and tobe  beading to cross the bows of s. s. " Nizam ".  The	helmput  bard  astarboard in order to pass astern of  the  othervessel."There  was no reference to any wartime order  or  regulationthen.  McLure said in his evidence:" The rule about turning away from a challenging vessel	 wasa  secret  matter and I did not think it fit to	 mention  iteven  to  my Managing Agents.  Mason told me  he  originallysteered to starboard in order to pass port to port."Even  Mason was far from being firm as to the  reason  whichled  him to turn hard astarboard at 6-45 p. m.	Having	saidthat  the  only	 reason was the alleged	 wartime  order,  hechanged	 and said that he turned hard starboard	 because  hewas dazzled with the Aldis lamp signal and the Kalawati	 wastoo close.  He admitted that he knew then that the  Kalawatiwas a patrol vessel which was not hostile; yet he wanted  toturn astern, as the Nizam had a gun mounted astern!   Again,he changed and gave a third reason for going hard starboard,namely, he wanted to get out of the way of the Kalawati.  Inthis state of the evidence, it is1001impossible  to place implicit reliance on  Mason's  evidencethat  he turned hard starboard at 6-45 p. m. for the  reasonthat  a	 so-called  war-time order required him	 to  do	 so.Learned counsel for the appellant drew our attention to	 therespondent's evidence on this point.  The respondent said:"  When	 a ship is challenged she gives her name  and  turnsround but not in the swept channel or in the harbour.I  do  not agree that in the swept channel when a  ship	 waschallenged to give her name she would have to turn round.  Idid  state  before the Marine Enquiry that when	 a  merchantship  is  challenged  she would turn  about  necessarily  bystarboard  movement and give her name and the turning  aboutwould  be action preparatory to running away and that  owingto  war these regulations were in force.  I gay that  I	 wastrapped into giving answers by vague questions."We  agree  that	 the  respondent's  evidence  is  not	veryingenuous;  but it cannot be accepted as an admission  whichrelieved the appellant from proving the existence of a	war-time order or regulation of the kind and nature suggested byMason  in his evidence.	 Mason's evidence taken as  a  wholeseems to indicate that the order to turn hard starboard camemuch later than 6-45 p. m. and the reason for the order	 wasto get back to the right side of the channel and to get	 outof the way of the Kalawati, if possible.  Unfortunately, theaction was taken too late and after the Kalawati had alreadyturned to port.	 On the evidence, we are unable to hold thatthe  Nizam took starboard action before the Kalawati  turnedto port.The question now arises-why did the Kalawati turn to port atabout  6-48 p. m. and in doing so, did she commit an act  ofnegligence  or	an act which in any way contributed  to	 thecollision?   On behalf of the appellant, it has been  arguedthat  even  if we find on the facts that the  Kalawati	tookport  action first, this action was wholly  unjustified	 andwrong and, in any event, the Kalawati could and should	havegone to starboard to avoid the collision; therefore, she waswholly to blame.  Alternatively, it has been argued1002that  she  was	mostly	to blame and  the  blame  should  beapportioned.   Ike shall deal with the alternative  argumentat a later stage.The  question is-why did the Kalawati turn to port at  about6-48 p. m. ? We think that Mason's own evidence furnishes ananswer	to  the question.  We know from the  Kalawati's	 logbook that she entered the swept channel at about 6-25 p.  m.south of the fairway buoy and she was then steering a courseof  north 80' west; by about 6-45 p. m. she was on the	mid-line  of the channel when she sighted the Nizam on the	portbow.   The  Nizam had already altered her  course  to  port.Mason summarised the position at 6-45 p. m. thus: " At 18-45she  (meaning  the  Kalawati)  was  about  one	mile  on  mystarboard  bow	and was crossing to starboard  port."  Capt.Cleeve	 thus  explained  the  meaning	of   the   aforesaidstatement:  "That  means that the distance between  the	 twoboats was one mile, and she (Kalawati) was a mile, off to my(Nizam's)  starboard  bow  and	she  was  crossing  from  mystarboard  'to	my  port.  "  Mason  further  clarified	 theposition  by  saying that the two boats were  then  steeringcrossing courses and it was not correct to say that if	bothships  had kept their course and speed as it was at  6-43  pm.,  they would have passed port to port.  Mason  also	saidthat  "	 the two boats were on converging courses  at  18-45hours  ". ,Obviously, there would have been a collision,  ifno  avoiding action was taken. by either boat.	That is	 whyMason was at pains to point out in his evidence that he tookstarboard action at 6-45 p. m. to get out of the way of	 theKalawati  and if both. the ships, had kept their courses  asthey were immediately after Mason had starboarded at 6-45 p.m.,  they would have passed port to port with about  half  amile  to  spare.   We  have  found,  however,  that  Mason'sstatement  that	 he had starboarded at 6-45 p.	m.  was	 notcorrect.  The position, therefore, was that. the two  boats-were  on crossing courses in a, narrow channel and when	 theKalawati  signalled with the Aldis lamp, she found that	 theNizam  was  still steering to port.  The Aldis	lamp  has  asmall telescope attached to it and from a demonstration madein Court, it became obvious that1003the  respondent	 was  in  a  position  to  see	through	 thetelescope what course the Nizam was taking.  At? about	6-48p. m. the distance between the two boats was less than	halfa  mile,  and unless the Kalawati took	avoiding  action,  acollision  was imminent.  Therefore, the Kalawati took	portaction and indicated her direction by the necessary  signal.The  justification for the port action of the  Kalawati	 wasthe  continuance  of the Nizam on a  port  course--a  coursewhich  was not only taking the Nizam over the mid-line	intothe  wrong  side  of the channel but was  also	making	 herconverge  on the course of the Kalawati.  The  Kalawati	 wasthe standing on vessel, and it was the duty of the Nizam  toget  out  of  the way.	Instead of  doing  that,  the  Nizampersisted  in her port course and changed to hard  starboardafter  the  Kalawati had justifiably taken  port  action  toavoid  an  imminent risk of collision.	It has	been  arguedbefore	us  that the Kalawati should have  anticipated	thatsooner	or later the Nizam would correct her mistake and  goto the starboard side of the channel and, therefore, as	 thestanding on vessel, the Kalawati should have kept her courseand  speed as required by Art. 21, and if she had  done	 so,there would have been no collision.  This argument fails  totake note of the perilous position in which the Kalawati wasplaced by the continuance of the Nizam in a port course tillabout  6-48  p. m. and furthermore ignores Arts. 27  and  29under which when a vessel finds herself so close to  anothervessel	that a collision cannot be avoided by the action  ofthe giving-way vessel alone, she must also take such  actionas  will  best aid to avert collision.	 The  Kalawati	was,therefore,  justified, in taking port action at 6-48  p.  m.when  a collision seemed imminent and perhaps the  collisionwould  have  been  averted if the Nizam had  not  taken	 theunfortunate  action of hard starboarding after the  Kalawatihad taken port action.	McLure realised the position as soonas  he	came on the bridge at 6-49 p. m.  and  ordered	fullspeed  astern.	 Unfortunately, it was too  late  then.	  IfMason  had  followed  the  provisions of  Art.	23  and	 hadslackened the speed of or reversed the Nizam between 6-45 p.m. and 6-48 p. m. the collision might have been averted.1004Instead,  however,  he	ordered the Nizam  to  be  put	hardstarboard  at about 6-48 p. m. This, in our opinion, was  anact  of negligence, which was primarily responsible for	 thecollision.  The findings of the learned trial Judge were, inour  view,  vitiated by reason of the circumstance  that  beaccepted  as  correct Mason's evidence that he had  put	 theNizam  bard  astarboard	 at  6-45 p.  m.  in  the  teeth  ofcircumstances  which  showed  clearly  enough  that  Mason'sevidence  about	 starboarding  at 6-45 p. m.  could  not  becorrect.  These circumstances were-(I) if Mason had put	 theNizam  hard starboard at 6-45 p. m., the Nizam would be	 90'to her former course by 6-48 p. m. and by 6-49 or 6-50 p. m.she would be turning towards Madras; (2) McLure did not feelany  such helm action at 6-45 p. m.; (3) the Nizam  gave  nosignal	of starboarding at 6-45 p. m. but gave	such  signalafter the Kalawati had turned to port soon after 6-48 p. m.;and (4) the reason which Mason gave for starboarding at 6-45P.  m. did not stand the test of scrutiny.  In the court  ofappeal	below,	one of the assessors, Commander	 Kale,	saiddefinitely that the only war-time restrictions in 1940	werewith  regard to lights and wireless communication.  He	saidthat  signals bad to be given by ships when they decided  tochange	their  course, and the more so when  ships  were  inrestricted waters and there was another vessel coming ahead.We  think  that	 the learned Judges  who  heard	 the  appealrightly	 emphasised  the  importance  of  the  circumstancesstated	above,	and having given them  due  weight,  rightlyreversed the findings of the learned trial Judge.To summarise our conclusions now: (1) we accept the positionthat  the Kalawati entered the channel at 6-25 p. m. on	 thewrong side and the Nizam was two cables on the right side atabout  6  p.  m.;  but by 6-45 p. m.,  the  two	 boats	wereopposite each other near about the mid-line of the  channel,the distance between the two being then a little more than amile;  (2) the Nizam did not take any hard starboard  actionat  6-45  p.  m.- rather she continued to steer	 to  a	portcourse till about 6-48 p. m. and probably went over the mid-line  into  the	 wrong side of the channel ;  (3)  when	 theKalawati signalled with the Aldis lamp, she1005noticed	 that  the Nizam was steering to port and was  on  acourse	converging on the Kalawati and at about 6-48  p.  m.the  Kalawati took avoiding action by turning hard  to	portand  gave a signal to that effect; (4) the Nizam  then	tookstarboard  action  to  get back to the	right  side  of	 thechannel and get out of the way of the Kalawati; and (5) whenMcLure	came  on the bridge at about 6-49 p. m.	 he  orderedfull  speed  astern -but it was too late and  the  collisiontook place at about 6-51 or 6-52 p. m.On the aforesaid findings there is little difficulty left inadjudging  where the responsibility lies for the  collision.As  we have said earlier., the responsibility lies with	 theNizam.It  is necessary to notice now, very briefly, two  decisionson which learned counsel for the appellant has relied: " TheTioga " (1) and the " Empire Brent " (2).  In the Tioga	 thequestion for consideration was the liability for damages  inrespect	 of a collision which occurred in the swept  channelof the N. E. Coast of England between the Pundit, a ship  inthe port column of a south-bound convoy of eight ships,	 andthe  Tioga, an independent north-bound ship.   The  decisionproceeded on the footing that south bound ships were under astrict	duty to keep within the western half of the  channeland  north-bound within the eastern half, thus passing	eachother  port to port.  Down the centre of the  channel  therewas  a	line  of flashing buoys four or	 five  miles  apart.There was a general prohibition of navigation lights,  whichmade  the strict observance of the; rule of the road in	 theswept  channel	exceptionally  imperative.   The  night	 wasovercast and dark, and there was drizzling rain	 diminishingvisibility.   In those circumstances, it was found that	 thePundit,	 instead of keeping to her right  water,  trespassedinto  the Tioga's water, and furthermore when she first	 sawthe  Tioga's  red at a quarter of a mile away,	her  instantduty  was to starboard out of the Tioga's way so as to	passport to port.  This the Pundit failed to do.  Therefore, thePundit was held responsible on two grounds, which Scott,  L.J., explained in the following words:-(1)  (1945) 78 Ll.  L. Rep. 1 (Lloyd's List Law Reports).(2)  (1948) 81 Ll.  L. Rep. 306 (Lloyd's List Law Reports).1006"  The	two ships were either meeting or  crossing;  and  ineither case it was the Pundit's duty to pass the Tioga	portto  port.  If they were crossing ships it was also her	dutyto keep out of the way of the Tioga and go under her  stern;if  meeting  ships,  simply  to	 starboard  her	 helm.	  Inaddition,  there was the special duty of the Pundit in	thatchannel to regain her right water.  She had been  blunderingout  of	 it  and  endangering north  bound  traffic;  and  Ientirely  agree with the learned Judge's view that for	thatreason	alone she was seriously to blame; and that  positionof  itself  would  entitle the Tioga to	 expect	 her  to  beactually  on a starboard helm, correcting her error, at	 themoment she put her lights on ".We  do	not think that the decision in the Tioga is  of	 anygreat assistance to the appellant.  On our findings, it	 wasthe  duty  of  the  Nizam to keep out  of  the	way  of	 theKalawati; and at 6-48 p.m. the Nizam was in all probability.in her wrong water and the Kalawati in her right water -  atany  rate - both were near the mid-line of the channel,	 andin  these circumstances, the Nizam's action in	starboardingafter  she  had seen the Kalawati, turn to  port  cannot  bejustified either on the principles laid down in the decisionaforesaid or on the provisions of the rule of the road in  anarrow channel.In  the Empire Brent the collision took place in  the  riverMersey	between	 the steamship Starmont	 and  the  steamshipEmpire Brent.  It was found that so far as the Starmont	 wasconcerned,  she deliberately set a course which	 meant	thatfor  most  of  the  way up the	river  she  was	 necessarilyproceeding  on	the wrong side of the river  for  her.	 TheEmpire	Brent had just left the Princes Landing	 Stage	whenshe  had to cope with the situation created by the  approachof  the Starmont.  In these circumstances it was  held	thatthe  Starmont was wholly in the wrong for coming up  on	 theeastern	 side of the river and for breaking in that way	 thenarrow channel rule which prevails in the Mersey.   Willmer,J., said:-"  I find it difficult to find words sufficiently strong  tocondemn the action of a man who persists in coming up on thewrong side of the river--especially as this1007action	of the Starmont was quite deliberate and was  merelyfor the purpose of her own convenience."Dealing	 with  the alternative case  that  the	starboardingaction	of  the	 Empire Brent was the  whole  cause  of	 thecollision even if the Starmont was wrong in coming up on theeastern side of the river, the learned Judge observed:"  That	 alternative  way of putting  the  case	 has  becomeacademic, having regard to my finding that the vessels	weregreen  to  green at any rate up to the time when  they	wereabout three - quarters of a mile apart.	 But, lest it shouldbe  thought that I agree with it, I should like to take	 theopportunity  of	 saying	 that I regard	that  contention  aswholly wrong.  As I understand the principles which apply innarrow channels, it has been laid down for many, many  yearsthat, although the crossing rule does from time to time haveto  be	applied in narrow channels (when,  for	instance,  avessel which is crossing the channel has to act in  relationto  a  vessel which is proceeding up or down  the  channel),nevertheless,  when  vessels  are  approaching	each  other,navigating respectively up and down the channel, it is	Art.25  of -the Collision Regulations which applies and  appliesexclusively.   There  is  no room in such  a  situation	 forapplying  the provisions of the crossing rule. at  the	sametime  as the provisions of the narrow channel rule,  becausethe  requirements under the rules are different.  I have  nohesitation in saying that as between a vessel coming up	 anda vessel going down, approaching each other in that way in anarrow channel like the Mersey, the narrow channel rule, andthe  narrow channel rule only, is the rule which has  to  beapplied.   However,  that is a digression,  because,  havingregard to my findings of fact, the point is academic."Learned counsel for the appellant has placed strong relianceon the aforesaid observations and has contended that in	 thepresent case also the provisions of the narrow channel	ruleshould apply and not those of the crossing rule.  We do	 notsee  how  a strict or exclusive application  of	 the  narrowchannel	 rule will help the appellant in the  present  case.We have found that the Nizam was in her right water at about6 p.m.1008but  she had altered her course to port later and  at  about6-45  p.m. she was near the mid-line and at 6-48  p.m.	whenshe starboarded in answer to the Kalawati's port action, shewas  in	 all  probability in the  wrong	 water.	  The  Nizamcannot, therefore, say that if the narrow channel rule	onlyapplied,  she  is bound to succeed.  We do  not,  therefore,think  that  the ratio of the decision in the  Empire  Brenthelps to establish the case of the appellant.In view of our findings, we consider it unnecessary to	dealwith  the  alternative	claim  of the  appellant  as  to  anapportionment-	of the blame for the collision in  question.We  do not think that the Kalawati was to blame	 for  takingport  action  when she did, and we have already	 stated	 ourreasons therefor.  There is a further difficulty in the	 wayof  the	 appellant.   It  is  true  that  the  question	  ofcontributory  negligence  was one of the issues	 before	 thelearned	 trial Judge, but in the view which he took  of	 theevidence,  he considered it unnecessary to decide  it.	 Theappeal was decided on the footing that the Kalawati was	 notguilty	of  negligence	and the	 entire	 liability  for	 thecollision was that of the Nizam.  The appellant has no doubtcontested the correctness of the findings arrived at by	 thelearned	 Judges of the appellate bench; but neither  in	 thememorandum  of	appeal	nor in the  statement  of  the	casepresented  to  this  Court  did	 the  appellant	 raise	 thealternative  claim  which  it has now  raised.	 During	 thecourse	of  the	 hearing  of the appeal	 in  this  Court,  apetition  was  made for adding a fresh ground of  appeal  inorder to raise the alternative claim of an apportionment  ofliability for the collision under the rules for the divisionof loss prescribed under the Maritime Conventions Act, 1911.We do not think that the prayer for an alternative claim canbe  allowed at this stage, because on our findings there  isno case for an apportionment of the blame.In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.We have already passed orders for the payment of the fees ofthe   two  assessors,  and  no	fresh  orders  thereon	 arenecessary.Appeal dismissed.