PETITIONER:GALLU SAH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHARDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/05/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMACITATION: 1958 AIR  813		  1959 SCR  861ACT:Criminal  Trial-Arson-Principal offender  acquitted-Abettor,conviction of-lndian Penal Code (XLV of 1860), ss. 107, 108,109 and 436.HEADNOTE:The  prosecution  case	was  that a  mob  Of  40-50  personsincluding  the appellant, formed an unlawful  assembly	withthe  common objects of dismantling the hut of R, of  settingfire  to  it  and  committing  assault,	 if  resisted;	theyassaulted  some persons, and the appellant ordered one	Budito  set	 fire to the hut and Budi set fire to  it  with	 theresult that it was burnt down, Twenty-two persons  includingthe  appellant	and  Budi,  were sent  up  for	trial.	 TheSessions  judge	 found that all of them formed	an  unlawfulassembly with the common objects of dismantling the hut	 andcommitting  assault on remonstrance, but that there  was  nocommon	object	to  set	 fire to the  hut  and	the  act  ofincendiarism  was  an isolated act of some  members  of	 theunlawful  assembly.  He found that the appellant  had  giventhe  order to Budi to set fire to the hut and Budi  had	 setfire  to  it in consequence of the abetment.   The  Sessionsjudge convicted the accused persons under ss.  147, 148	 and323  of the Indian Penal Code.	Budi was  further  convictedunder S. 436 and the appellant under S. 436 read with s. 109of  the	 Indian Penal Code.  On appeal the  High  Court	 setaside  the  conviction of Budi under S. 436 holding  it	 notproved	that  he had set fire to the hut.   The	 High  Courtupheld	the  conviction of the appellant under S.  436	readwith s. :cog holding that he had given the order to set fireto  the hut and that it was actually set on fire by  one  ofthe  members  of  the  unlawful	 assembly.   The   appellantchallenged  his conviction under S. 436 read with s. 109  onthe  ground that it was not established that the person	 whoset fire to the hut had done so in consequence of the  orderof the appellantHeld, that the appellant was rightly convicted under S.	 436read with s. 109 of the Indian Penal Code.  On the  findingsgiven  in the case it must be held that the person  who	 setfire  to  the  hut was one of the members  of  the  unlawfulassembly  and that he did so in consequence of the order  ofthe appellant.Raja Khan v. Emperor, A.I.R. 1920 Cal. 834 and Umadasi	Dasiv. Emperor (1924) I.L.R. 52 Cal. 112, referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 183  of1957.862Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 21, 1957, of the Patna High Court in Criminal AppealNo. 34 of 1956, arising out of the judgment and order  datedJanuary 23, 1956, of the Court of the 2nd Assistant SessionsJudge at Darbhanga in Sessions Trial No. 52 of 1955.P.   K. Chatterjee, for the appellant.D.   P. Singh, for the respondent.1958.  May 20.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.  K. DAS T.-This appeal by special leave is limited  to  aparticular   question  only,  namely,  correctness  of	 theconviction  of the appellant Galfu Sah for an offence  unders.  436	 read  with  s. 109,  Indian  Penal  Code,  and	 thepropriety  of  the sentence passed  thereunder.	  The  shortfacts  are  these.   Some 22 accused persons,  of  whom	 theappellant  was	one,  were tried by  the  learned  AssistantSessions  Judge of Darbhanga for various offences under	 theIndian	Penal Code alleged to have been committed  by  them.The  prosecution case was that on May 16, 1954,	 in  villageDharhara in the district of Darbbanga a, mob of about  40-50persons,  including the accused persons, formed an  unlawfulassembly, the common objects of which were (1) to  dismantlethe hut of one Mst.  Rasmani, (2) to set fire to it and	 (3)to commit assault, if resisted.	 One Tetar Mian, who was thechaukidar  of village Dharhara, had come to the	 village  atabout 10 a.m. to ascertain births and deaths for the purposeof  supplying the said information to the officer  in-chargeof the police station for registration.	 When this chaukidarreached near the hut of Mst.  Rasmani, who was the widow  ofone Ganpat, he found the mob engaged in dismantling the hut.The  chaukidar	protested.   On this, it  was  alleged,	 theappellant  hit	him  with a lathi on  the  left	 high.	 Thechaukidar  then	 raised an alarm and several  other  personscame there including Ramji, Nebi and Munga Lal.	 Thereafter,it was alleged, the appellant ordered another member of	 theunlawful assembly named Budi to set fire to the hut of	Mst.Rasmani and he further ordered an assault863on  Ramji and Nebi.  Budi, it was alleged, set fire  to	 thehut  and the hut was burnt.  Some members of the mob  chasedRamji and Nebi and assaulted them.The  learned  Sessions	Judge found  that  all	the  accusedpersons before him did form an unlawful assembly and came tothe  hut  of  Mst.   Rasmani on the date  and  at  the	timealleged,  armed	 with  weapons, with the  common  object  ofdismantling  the  hut  and  of	committing  an	assault	  onremonstrance.  He held that in prosecution of the  aforesaidcommon	objects the offences of rioting and hurt etc.,	werecommitted.  So far as the charge of arson was concerned,  heheld  that  the act of incendiarism was an isolated  act  ofsome members of the unlawful assembly, there being no commonobject	of the entire unlawful assembly to set fire  to	 thehut of Mst.  Rasmani.  He accepted the evidence given beforehim  to the effect that the present appellant had given	 theorder  to Budi to set fire to the hut and that Budi had	 setfire to it in consequence of the abetment.  Accordingly,  heconvicted the accused persons of various offences under	 ss.147,  148 and 323 etc. of the Indian Penal Code.   Budi	 wasfurther	 convicted under s. 436, Indian Penal Code, and	 thepresent	 appellant  under s. 436 read with  s.	109,  IndianPenal Code.There was then an appeal to the High Court of Patna and	 thelearned	 Judge who heard it found that the evidence  againstBudi  in respect of the allegation that he had set  fire  tothe  hut of Mst.  Rasmani was not very satisfactory  and  heacquitted  Budi	 of the charge under s.	 436,  Indian  PenalCode.	So far as the appellant Gallu Sah was concerned,  heheld that the evidence satisfactorily established that GalluSah  had given the order to set fire to the hut and the	 hutwas  actually  set on fire by one member or another  of	 theunlawful  assembly.   On  this	finding,  he  affirmed	 theconviction  and sentence of the appellant under s. 436	readwith  s. 109, Indian Penal Code, the sentence being  one  offour  years'  rigorous	imprisonment.	The  conviction	 andsentence of the appellant for the offences under ss. 147 and323,  Indian  Penal  Code,  were  also	affirmed,  but	 theconviction and sentence 110864under  s. 324 read with s. 149, Indian Penal Code, were	 setaside.	  We   are,  however,  not  concerned	with   thoseconvictions and sentences and nothing more need besaid about them.We now come to the particular question to which this  appealis limited, namely, propriety of the conviction and sentencepassed	on the appellant for the offence under s.  436	readwith  s. 149, Indian Penal Code.  Mr. P. K.  Chatterjee	 hasappeared  on behalf of the appellant and has  contested	 thecorrectness  of the conviction on two grounds:	firstly,  hehas submitted that the evidence on which the conviction	 wasbased is the same evidence which was given against Budi Sah,and  if	 that evidence was disbelieved with regard  to	BudiSah, it should not have been believed against the appellant;secondly,  he has submitted that though he does not wish  tocontend that in every case where the principal offender	 hasbeen acquitted of the offence, a person said to have abettedthe commission of the offence must also be acquitted,  thereis no evidence in this particular case that whoever set fireto  the	 hut of Mst.  Rasmani did so in consequence  of	 theorder of the appellant, assuming that the appellant gave  anorder to set fire to the hut, and therefore, the  convictionof the appellant for abetment is bad in law.As to the first point, the learned Judge has in his judgmentgiven  good reasons why the evidence of the  witnesses	withregard to Budi Sah was not accepted and why the testimony ofthe   same  witnesses  was  accepted  with  regard  to	 theappellant.   The witnesses on this point were four  persons,namely,	 Tetar,	 Ramji,	 Nebi  and  Munga  Lal.	  Tetar,  itappears, did not mention in his first information that	Budihad  set  fire	to  the hut, but he  did  mention  that	 theappellant  had	given  the order to set fire to	 the  hut  Asimilar	 infirmity  was found in the evidence of  Ramji	 whoalso  failed to tell the sub-inspector of police  that	Budihad  set  fire to the hut.  Nebi, it appears, could  not  becross-examined	as  he died before the trial  began  in	 theCourt of Session.  So far as Munga Lal was concerned, it waselicited  in cross-examination that he did not speak at	 thespot, or subsequently, to any of his co.865villagers  that	 Budi  had set fire to the  hut.   On  thesegrounds	 the learned Judge did not accept the  testimony  ofthe  aforesaid	four  witnesses so  far	 as  the  allegationagainst	 Budi was concerned.  The infirmity which was  foundin the evidence of the aforesaid four witnesses with  regardto  Budi  Sah  was  not, however,  present  so	far  as	 theallegation against the present appellant was concerned,	 andthe  learned Judge expressly said that the evidence  of	 theaforesaid   four  witnesses  was  consistent   against	 theappellant.  We see no violation of any rule of law nor	evenof prudence in the learned Judge accepting the testimony  ofsome  of the witnesses against the appellant, though he	 didnot accept that testimony against Budi Sah.We  now	 turn  to the second point urged on  behalf  of	 theappellant.   It	 must be emphasised here  that	the  learnedJudge was satisfied that (1) the appellant gave the order toset  fire  to the hut and (2) tha the hut was  actually	 setfire  to by one member or another of the unlawful  assembly,even  though the unlawful assembly as a whole did  not	haveany  common  object  of	 setting fire to  the  hut  of	Mst.Rasmani.   The	point  taken  by  learned  counsel  for	 theappellant is that when the learned Judge did not accept	 theevidence  of  the witnesses that Budi set fire to  the	hut,there was really no evidence to show that the person who setfire  to the hut of Mst.  Rasmani did so in  consequence  ofthe  order given by Gallu Sah.	The learned Advocate  pointsout that one of the essential ingredients of the offence  isthat the act abetted must be committed inconsequence of the abetment.It  is necessary to read at this stage some of the  sectionsof  the	 Indian	 Penal Code with regard to  the	 offence  ofabetment.  Section 107 defines what abetment is.  It says-" S. 107.  A person abets the doing of a thing, who-First.-Instigates any person to do that thing; or Secondly.-Engages	 with  one or more other person or  persons  in	 anyconspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegalomission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and inorder to the doing of that thing; or866Thirdly.-Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission,the doing of that thing."Section	 108 is in two parts and explains who is an  abettorin  two	 circumstances-(1)  when  the  offence	abetted	  iscommitted and	(2) when an act is committed which would  bean  offence  if	 committed by a person	capable	 by  law  ofcommitting  an offence with the same intention or  knowledgeas  that  of  the abettor.  We are not	concerned  with	 thesecond	circumstance in the present case.  We are  concernedwith a person who abets the commission of an offence.	Thencomess.   109 which is in these terms:"  S.  109.   Whoever abets any offence shall,	if  the	 actabetted is committed in consequence of the abetment, and  noexpress provision is made by this Code for the punishment ofsuch abetment, be punished with the punishment provided	 forthe offence.Explanation.-An	 act or offence is said to be  committed  inconsequence of abetment, when it is committed in consequenceof  the instigation, or in pursuance of the  conspiracy,  orwith the aid which constitutes the abetment."It seems to us, on the findings given in the case, that	 theperson who set fire to the hut of Mst.	Rasmani must be	 oneof the persons who were members of the unlawful assembly andhe  must  have done so in consequence of the  order  of	 thepresent appellant.  It is, we think, too unreal to hold thatthe  person who set fire to the hut of Mst.  Rasmani did  soirrespective,  or independently, of the order given  by	 thepresent appellant.  Such a finding, in our opinion, would beunreal	and completely divorced from the facts of  the	caseand  it is necessary to add that no such finding  was  giveneither by the learned Assistant Sessions Judge who tried theappellant  or  the learned Judge of the High Court.   As  weread the findings of the learned Judge, it seems clear to usthat  he  found that the person who set fire to the  hut  ofMst.  Rasmani did so in consequence of the abetment, namely,the instigation of the appellant.It  is	necessary  to refer to two decisions  to  which	 ourattention has been drawn by the learned Advocate.867The  decision in Raja Khan v. Emperor (1) related to a	casewhere  one  Torap Ali was held to be guilty of	cheating  bypersonating one Sabdar Faraji and using his name on a suretybond.	The  charge against Torap Ali was that	he  was	 theprincipal  in the case and the charge against Raja Khan	 andCherak	Ali Akon, the two appellants in that case, was	thatthey  abetted by being present at the personation which	 wasalleged to have been committed by Torap Ali.  Torap Ali	 wasacquitted  by the jury.	 The learned Judge who	presided  atthe jury trial did not, however, tell the jury what would bethe  effect of the acquittal of Torap Ali on the  charge  ofabetment  against Raja Khan and Cherak Ali.  It was  becauseof this omission that the conviction of Raja Khan and CherakAli  was set aside.  The head note of the  report,  however,said  in general terms that where a person is  charged	withhaving	committed  an offence and another  is  charged	withhaving	abetted	 him  in the  commission  thereof,  and	 theprosecution  fails  to substantiate the	 commission  of	 theprincipal offence, there can be no conviction for  abetment.This general statement was considered in a later decision inUmadasi Dasi v. Emperor (2), and it was pointed out that  inthe majority of cases the aforesaid general statement  mightbold  good;  but there are exceptions to the  general  rule,particularly  when  there is evidence  which  satisfactorilyestablishes  that  the offence abetted is committed  and  iscommitted in consequence of the abetment.We accordingly hold that the conviction of the appellant forthe  offence  under s. 436 read with s.	 109,  Indian  PenalCode,  is  not bad in law.  As to the sentence it  does	 notappear to us that it errs oil the side of severity.  It	 hasbeen  stated  that  the appellant was released	on  bail  onserving out the sentence passed against him for the offencesunder  ss. 147 and 323, Indian Penal Code.  In our  opinion,the  appeal  has  no  merit  and  must	be  dismissed.	 Theappellant  must	 now  surrender himself	 to  serve  out	 theremainder of his sentence.(1)A.I.R. 1920 Cal. 834.Appeal dismissed.(2)(1924) I.L.R. 52 Cal. 112.868