PETITIONER:BHINKA AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:CHARAN SINGHDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/04/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  960		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 798 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC 136	 (11) R	    1965 SC 364	 (238) R	    1982 SC 149	 (1094) R	    1984 SC1471	 (62) RF	    1991 SC2072	 (17,19)ACT:Agricultural Tenancy-Jurisdiction of Revenue Court-Suit	 forejectment of Person in occupation without  title-Provisionalorder  of  Magistrate  regarding  possession,  if  a  properdefence-U.   P.	 Tenancy Act, 1939 (U.	P. 17 Of  1939),  s.180-Code of Criminal Procedure (V of 1898), s. 145.HEADNOTE:These appeals arose out of suits for ejectment instituted inthe  Revenue  Court by the respondent Zamindar	against	 theappellants  under s. 180 of the U. P. Tenancy Act, 1939	 (U.P.  I7 Of 1939).  His case was that the lands in  suit	werehis  sir lands and the appellants trespassed on the same  onthe basis of a wrong order of the Criminal Court.  The	caseof the appellants was that they were admitted as  hereditarytenants by the respondents.  There was a previous proceedingunder  s. I45 of the Code of Criminal Procedure between	 theparties	 and  the  Magistrate  found  possession  with	 theappellants   and  directed  that  they	should	 remain	  inpossession till evicted by due process of law.	The  RevenueCourt  which tried the suits found that the lands  were	 sirlands  of  the	respondent  and	 the  appellants  were	 nothereditary  tenants  and did not take  possession  with	 theconsent	 of the respondent.  The Additional Commissioner  onappeal	and  the Board of Revenue on second  appeal,  agreedwith  these findings of the Revenue Court and dismissed	 theappeals.   The	Board negatived the plea of  the  appellantsthat  the  suits  were not triable  by	the  Revenue  Court.Section 180 of the U. P. Tenancy Act, 1939, provides that  aperson	taking or retaining possession of land	without	 theconsent of the person entitled to admit him into  occupationand otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of	 lawfor  the  time being in force will be  liable  to  enactmentthereunder.  In view of the finding of the courts below thatthe appellants had not taken possession with the consent  ofthe  respondent,  the question was whether they	 did  so  byvirtue Of s. I45 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Held, that the provisions of s. I45 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure  authorised  the Magistrate only  to	declare	 theactual possession of a party on a specified date and not  togive possession or permit any party to take possession.	  Hehad no power under that section to decide questions of titleor  right  to  possession which a civil	 court	alone  coulddecide.The  words " taking " and " retaining " were used by s.	 180of  the	 Act  in an independent and  exclusive	sense.	 Theformer	referred to taking of possession illegally  and	 thelatter	to  taking  of	possession  legally  but  subsequentretaining  of  it illegally.  Consequently,  the  appellantswhose possession had been found799to be illegal from the very inception, could not be said  toretain	possession legally so as to be outside the scope  ofthe section.It  was also clear that possession in accordance  with	law,such  as  was  contemplated  by s. 180	of  the	 Act,  meantpossession with lawful title.  The provisional Order of	 theMagistrate with regard to possession, irrespective of lawfulrights	of  the parties, could not,  therefore,	 enable	 theappellants to resist the suit under. s. 180 of the Act.Dinomoni Chowdhrani v. Barojo Mohini Chowdhyani, (1901) L.R.29 I.A. 24, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION:' Civil Appeals Nos. 78 to  83of 1959.Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders  datedJuly  28,  1954,  of the U. P. Board of	 Revenue  in  SecondAppeals Nos. 430-435 of 1953-54, arising out of the judgmentand  orders  dated  April  28, 1954, of	 the  Court  of	 theAdditional Commissioner, Meerut Division, Meerut, in AppealsNos.  455-460 of 1954 against the judgment and orders  datedMarch  16, 1954, of the Addl.  District Magistrate,  Meerut,in Cases Nos. 389-394 of 1950.B.   C. Misra, for the appellants.S.   N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, for therespondent.1959.  April 24.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySUBBA RAO, J.-These six appeals, by special leave were filedagainst the judgment of the Board of Revenue dated July	 28,1954.The respondent was a Zamindar of Gadhi, Baghu and SantokporeVillages  in  Uttar Pradesh.  He claimed  that	the  plaint-schedule  lands	 were  his Sir.	 The  appellants  set  up  adispute	 claiming that they were admitted by the  respondentas  hereditary tenants and that they were in  possession  ofthe  said lands.  As the dispute was likely to cause  breachof  the peace, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Baghpat,	tookproceedings  under s. 145, Code of Criminal  Procedure,	 andattached the disputed lands on October 8, 1948, and directedthem  to  be placed in possession of a	superdgidar  pendingdisposal of those proceedings.	After800making	the necessary enquiry, by an order dated  March	 20,1950, he found that the appellants were in possession of thesaid  lands  and declared that they were entitled to  be  inpossession thereof until evicted therefrom in due course  oflaw.On  June  30, 1950, the respondent filed six  suits  in	 theRevenue	 Court	(Additional Collector, Meerut)	against	 theappellants under s. 180 of the U. P. Tenancy Act (U.  P.  17of 1939), hereinafter called the Act, for evicting them from-the  said lands and for damages.  He alleged  therein	thatthe  disputed  lands  were  his	 Sir  lands  and  that	 theappellants  trespassed on the same on the basis of  a  wrongorder of the Criminal Court.  The appellants pleaded,  interalia,  that they had been admitted as hereditary tenants  bythe respondent after receiving from them a sum of Rs. 40,000towards	 premium.   The suits were  consolidated,  but	werestayed	on  August 14, 1951, under r. 4 of  the	 Rules	madeunder the U. P. Ordinance No. III of 1951.  On September 22,1952, on an application made by the respondent, the  RevenueCourt  ordered	under r. 5 for restarting the trial  of	 thesuits.	After the said order, the Revenue Court	 transferredthe  suits  to the Civil Court for retrial,  but  the  firstAdditional  Munsif,  Ghaziabad,	 to  whom  the	suits	weretransferred,  held that the said suits were triable only  bythe Revenue Court and retransferred the same to that  Court.The  Additional Collector, Meerut, held, on  evidence,	thatthe said lands were Sir and Khud kasht of the respondent andthat the appellants were not admitted thereto as  hereditarytenants.   The appellants preferred six appeals against	 thedecrees of the Additional Collector in the six suits to	 theCourt  of  the	Commissioner  at  Meerut.   The	  AdditionalCommissioner,  who heard the appeals, held that one  of	 theappeals	 filed by the legal representatives of	Jahana,	 theplaintiff  in the suit which gave rise to that	appeal,	 hadnot  been  properly  presented	on  the	 ground	 that	ShriBrahmanand  Sharma,  Vakil,  did not file in  the  suit	 anyvakalat	 given	to him by the legal representatives  of	 thedeceased  and therefore the appeal had abated, and  that  asall the suits were consolidated with the801consent	 of  the parties, the decision in  the	suit  becamefinal and operated as res judicata in the other appeals.  Onthe  merits, he agreed with the trial Court in holding	thatthe  lands in dispute were Sir and that the appellants	werenot   hereditary   tenants.   Thereafter,   the	  appellantspreferred  six second appeals against the said order of	 theAdditional   Commissioner  to  the  Board  of	Revenue	  atAllahabad.   The Board of Revenue accepted the	findings  ofthe two Courts, and also it negatived the plea raised by theappellants  for the first time to the effect that the  suitswere not maintainable in the Revenue Court.  In the  result,the appeals were dismissed.  The present appeals were  filedagainst the order of the Board of Revenue.The learned Counsel for the appellants raised before us	 thefollowing   contentions:  (1)  The  appeal  by	 the   legalrepresentatives	  of  Jahana  against  the  order   of	 theAdditional Collector, Meerut, was properly presented to	 theCourt of the Commissioner; (2) assuming that the said appealhad  abated,  the decision of the  Additional  Collector  inthe suit giving rise to the said appeal would not operate asres judicata in the connected appeals; (3) the Revenue Courthad no jurisdiction to try the suits ; (4) as the suits	 hadbeen  stayed  under r. 4 of the Rules made under the  U.  P.Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950,	 hereinaftercalled	the Rules, they had abated under r. 5 of  'the	saidRules;	(5)  the  finding on issue  one,  namely,  that	 theappellants  were  not hereditary tenants,  was	vitiated  byerrors of law ; and (6) the finding on issue two, namely, towhat  damages,	if  any,  was  the  plaintiff  entitled	 wascontrary  to law inasmuch as the Additional  Collector	gavedamages	 though neither the witnesses deposed to it nor	 theAdvocate advanced any argument thereon.The  first  two contentions need not detain us.	 As  we	 arerejecting  the	contentions of the learned Counsel  for	 theappellants  on all the other points, the correctness of	 thedecision  of the Revenue Board on the said two points  wouldnot affect the result of the appeals.  We do not, therefore,propose to express our opinion thereon.101802We  shall take the fifth contention next.   That  contentionraises	the question whether the appellants were  hereditarytenants	 of  the  disputed lands.   The	 three	Courts	haveconcurrently held on a consideration of oral and documentaryevidence that they were not hereditary tenants.	 The learnedCounsel	 for  the appellants made an attempt to	 reopen	 thesaid  finding  by  contending that it was  vitiated  by	 thefollowing  errors of law: (i) Though the appellants filed  acertified copy of the khatauni of 1355 fasli, the Courts didnot  draw the presumption, which they were bound to  do,  tothe  effect  that  the said certified  copy  was  a  genuinedocument and that the person who purported to have signed ithad held the official character which he claimed to hold  inthe  said document; (ii) as the Magistrate made an order  infavour	of  the	 appellants  under s. 145  of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure, the Courts should have thrown the burdenof  proof  on the respondent; (iii)  the  material  evidenceadduced on the side of the appellants was ignored; (iv)	 theCourts	 applied  different  standards	of  proof   to	 theappellants  and	 the respondent in regard to  the  certifiedcopies of khatauni and khasra prepared by the same  patwari,Ahmed  Ali;  and  (v) the Courts  also	ignored	 the  rightsaccrued to the appellants and ss: 10, 16 and 20 of the U. P.Tenancy	  Act.	  For  convenience  of	reference   and	  todistinguish  the  alleged  errors  of  law  from  the	maincontentions, we shall refer to the former as points.The first point, in the manner presented before us, does notappear	to  have  been raised in any of	 the  three  Courts.Section 79 of the Evidence Act reads:"  The	Court  shall presume to be  genuine  every  documentpurporting  to	be a certificate.......... which is  by	 lawdeclared  to  be admissible as evidence	 of  any  particularfact, and which purports to be duly certified by any officer-of    the    Central	 Government   or    of	  a    StateGovernment................................................Provided that such document is substantially in the form andpurports  to  be executed in the manner directed by  law  inthat behalf.The  Court shall also presume that any officer by  whom	 anysuch document purports to be signed or803certified,  held, when he signed it, the official  characterwhich he claims in such paper ".Under this section a Court is bound to draw the	 presumptionthat a certified copy of a document is genuine and also thatthe  officer  signed it in the official character  which  heclaimed	 in  the said document.	 But such a  presumption  ispermissible only if the, certified copy is substantially  inthe form and purported to be executed in the manner providedby law in that behalf.	Section 4 of the Evidence Act  indi-cates  the limits of such a presumption.  The relevant	partof that section reads:"  Whenever it is directed by this Act that the Court  shallpresume a fact, it shall regard such fact as proved,  unlessand until it is disproved ".To  put	 it differently, if a certified	 copy  was  executedsubstantially in the form and in the manner provided by law,the  Court raises a rebuttable presumption in regard to	 itsgenuineness.   The khatauni of 1355 fasli with which we	 areconcerned,  gives the relevant details and purports to	havebeen  signed by Ahmed Ali, the patwari of the  village.	  Itcannot be disputed that the patwari was an officer appointedby the State Government and that he was authorized to  issuecertified  copies of the record of rights.  The U.  P.	LandRecords Manual gives the rules prescribing the form and	 themanner	in which a certified. copy of the record  of  rightsshould	be issued.  Paragraph 26 of the Manual confers	uponhim  the  power to give to the applicants  certified  copiesfrom his record; and tinder el. (d) of the said paragraph heshould	enter  in  his diary a note of	such  extracts.	  Heshould	also note the amount of fee realised by him  in	 thediary  as well as on the extract.  In this case neither	 thediary  was produced to prove that the  procedure  prescribedwas  followed nor the extract to disclose that	the  officermade  any  note of payment.  It cannot, therefore,  be	saidthat  the  certified  copy  was issued	by  the	 patwari  insubstantial compliance with the provisions of law  governingsuch  issue.  If so, it follows that the Court is not  boundto draw the presumption in regard to its genuineness.804That  apart,  a	 Court is bound to draw	 only  a  rebuttablepresumption in regard to its genuineness.  In this case	 thethree Courts rejected the document on the ground that it wasnot  genuine on the basis of not only the internal  evidencefurnished by the document but also on other evidence.	Theyhave  given  -convincing reasons for doing so, and  even  ifthere was any rebuttable presumption, it was rebutted in thepresent case.Nor  is	 there any merit in the second	point  either.	 Theorder of the Magistrate under s. 145 of the Code of CriminalProcedure  may,	 at best, throw the burden of proof  on	 theplaintiff  ; but in the present case the question of  burdenof  proof  is not material, for the findings  of  the  threeCourts	were  arrived at on a consideration  of	 the  entireevidence.   Though  the learned Counsel says  that  materialevidence  has  been ignored by the Courts, he has  not	beenable  to  point out what evidence has  been  excluded.	 TheCourts	have  considered the entire evidence  placed  beforethem  and the findings were based on an appreciation of	 thesaid  evidence.	  We  are  also	 unable	 to  appreciate	 thecontention  that  different  standards of  proof  have	beenapplied	 by the Courts in respect of the different  parties.This  argument	is based upon the fact that  the  AdditionalCommissioner,  while  rejecting the certified  copy  of	 thekhatauni  of 1355 fasli filed by the appellant, relied	uponthe  certified copy of khasra dated June 28, 1948, filed  bythe respondent, though both of them were issued by the	samepatwari,  Ahmed Ali.  We do not see any incongruity  in	 theaction	of  the Additional Commissioner.   He  rejected	 theformer	as,  for  other reasons, he held  that	it  was	 notgenuine,  and he relied upon the latter as he  accepted	 itsgenuineness.   The last of the points has not been  made  inany of the Courts below and indeed it does not arise on	 thefinding	 that the appellants are not tenants.  Sections	 10,16  and	 20  of the U. P. Tenancy Act  presuppose  that	 theperson	claiming rights thereunder is a tenant, and, on	 thefinding	 that  the appellants are not tenants, there  is  noscope for invoking the said provisions.	 Presumably for thatvery reason,805no question on the basis of those sections was raised in theCourts below.  The concurrent finding of the three Courts tothe effect that the appellants are not hereditary tenants isessentially one of fact and is not vitiated by any error  oflaw.   Following the usual practice of this Court,  we	mustaccept the finding.The  sixth  contention,	 in our view, is  not  open  to	 theappellants  at	this stage.  The Additional  Collector	gavedamages	 though he noticed the fact that no witness  deposedin  regard to damages and though the.  respondent's  Counseldid not argue on that point.  Notwithstanding the said fact,he  gave  damages  on the basis of the annual  rent  of	 theholdings.  The correctness of this finding was not canvassedeither	in  the	 first	appellate Court	 or  in	 the  secondappellate  Court;  nor does the statement of case  filed  inthis  Court  disclose any grievance on that score.   In	 thecircumstances,	we  do	not  feel  justified  to  allow	 theappellants to raise that plea in this Court.We may now advert to the main and substantial contention  ofthe  appellants, namely that the suits are not	maintainablein   a	Revenue	 Court.	  This	question  turns	  upon	 theinterpretation	of  s. 180 of the Act.	Before	reading	 thesection, it would be convenient and useful to notice brieflythe scheme of the Act relevant to the question raised.	 TheAct,  as the preamble shows, was passed to  consolidate	 andamend	the   laws  relating   to   Agricultural   tenancies(proprietary  cultivation).  It regulates  the	relationshipbetween	 the  landlords and the tenants in  respect  of	 theagricultural holdings.	It confers exclusive jurisdiction onRevenue	 Courts	 in respect of rights inter se	between	 thelandlord  -and	the  tenant.  It also  reconciles  the	con-flicting jurisdictions of Revenue and Civil Courts.  Brieflystated,	 all disputes between a landlord and his  tenant  inrespect	 of tenancy are exclusively made triable by  RevenueCourts and all disputes in respect of proprietary rights areleft  to the decision of Civil Courts.	Incidentally,  if  aquestion  exclusively falling within the jurisdiction  of  aRevenue	 Court arises in a suit in a Civil Court, that	suitis  stayed and the relevant issue is submitted for  decisionof the Revenue.806Court.	So too, if a question of proprietary right arises ina proceeding before a Revenue Court, that issue is submittedfor  the  decision  of	a  Civil  Court.   Jurisdiction	  isexpressly  conferred on Revenue Courts to  entertain,  amongothers,	 suits for ejectment under certain circumstances  onspecified  grounds.   Section 180 of the Act is one  of	 thefasciculus of sections dealing with ejectment.	Sections 155to  179 provide for suits for ejectment against	 tenants  onspecified grounds.  Then comes s. 180, the material part  ofwhich reads:" (1).	A person taking or retaining possession of a plot ofland without the consent of the person entitled to admit himto  occupy such plot and otherwise than in  accordance	withthe provisions of the law for the time being in force, shallbe liable to ejectment under this section on the suit of theperson so entitled, and also to pay damages which may extendto  four  times	 the  annual  rental  value  calculated	  inaccordance   with   the	 sanctioned  rates   applicable	  tohereditary tenants. -Explanation II.-- A tenant entitled to sublet a lot of	landin  accordance with the provisions of the law for  the	timebeing  in  force  may maintain a  suit	under  this  sectionagainst	 the person taking or retaining possession  of	suchplot otherwise than in the circumstances for which provisionis made in section 183.(2)  If	 no  suit  is brought under this section,  or  if  aperson	  in possession shall become a hereditary tenant  ofsuch plot, or if such person is a co-sharer, he shall becomea   khudkasht-holder,  on  the	expiry	of  the	 period	  oflimitation prescribed for such suit or for the execution  ofsuch decree, as the case may be."Section	 242 says that suits of the nature specified in	 thefourth	schedule  shall be heard and determined	 by  RevenueCourts.	   Schedule   4,  Group	 B,  gives   succintly	 thedescription  of the suits and the periods of limitation	 andthe  court-fee payable thereon.	 Serial No. 8 relates  to  asuit under s. 180 of the Act.  Against that807serial	number, the nature of the suit is described  in	 thefollowing terms:" For the ejectment of a person occupying land without titleand for damages."The period of limitation for instituting such a suit is alsoprescribed thereunder.Under s. 180 of the Act, a person entitled to admit  anotherto  a  plot of land can file a suit in a  Revenue  Court  toeject  him.   The  latter can defend the suit  only  on	 twogrounds,  namely,  (1)	that  he  has  taken  possession  orretained possession of the said plot with the consent of theformer;	 and  (2)  that	 he  took  possession  or   retainedpossession in accordance with the provisions of law for	 thetime  being  in force.	If no suit was brought	against	 theoccupier  or  if  the decree obtained against  him  was	 notexecuted,  he  would become a hereditary  tenant  after	 theperiod	of limitation prescribed in the fourth	Schedule  tothe  Act.   On	the  findings  of  the	Courts	below,	 theappellants  did	 not take possession of the lands  with	 theconsent	 of  the respondent, but it is said  that  they	 hadtaken  possession  of  the  lands  in  accordance  with	 theprovisions  of	the  law for the time being  in	 force.	  Tosubstantiate this contention, reliance is placed firstly  onthe   recitals	in  the	 plaints,  and,	 secondly,  on	 theprovisions of s. 145 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	  Inthe  plaints  it  was stated that  the	Criminal  Court	 haddeclared  on March 20, 1950, the appellants' possession	 forsome reason, and after the order of the said Court, they hadforcibly  reaped  the crops raised by the  respondent.	 Thecause of action was alleged to have accrued after March	 20,1950,  or near about the date of their taking possession  ofthe  said  lands.   The allegations in the  plaints  do	 notsupport	 the appellants.  The respondent did not admit	thatpossession  was taken in execution of the order made by	 theMagistrate; but lie averred that taking advantage of a wrongorder declaring the appellants' possession, they  trespassedupon  his  lands'  If the  allegations-were  assumed  to  becorrect,   the	appellants  did	 not  take   possession	  inaccordance with the provisions of the law for the time beingin force.808Can  it be said that the appellants had taken possession  inaccordance  with  the provisions of s. 145 of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure ? The short answer is that s. 145 of	 thesaid Code does not confer on a Magistrate any power to	makean-order  directing the delivery of possession to  a  personwho  is	 not. in possession on the date of  the	 preliminaryorder  made  by him under s. 145(1) of the Code.   Under  s.145(1)	of  the Code, his jurisdiction is confined  only  todecide whether any and which of the parties was on the	dateof  the preliminary order in possession of the land in	dis-pute.	The order only declares the actual possession  of  aparty  on  a  specified date and does not  purport  to	givepossession  or	authorise any party to	take  possession   .Even  in  the case of 'any party who has been  forcibly	 andwrongfully  dispossessed within two months next	 before	 thedate  of  the  preliminary order,  the	Magistrate  is	onlyauthorised to treat that party who is dispossessed as if liehad  been in possession on such date.  If that be the  legalposition, the appellants could not have taken possession  ofthe  disputed  lands by virtue of an order  made  under	 theprovisions  of	s. 145 of the Code  of	Criminal  Procedure.They  were either in possession or not in possession of	 thesaid  lands on the specified date, and, if they were not  inpossession on that date, their subsequent taking  possessionthereof could not have been under the provisions of the Codeof Criminal Procedure.If  the appellants did not take possession of  the  disputedlands, did they retain possession of the same in  accordancewith the provisions of the law for the time being in force ?The  dichotomy between taking and retaining  indicates	thatthey  are  mutually  exclusive and apply  to  two  differentsituations.  The word " taking " applies to a person  takingpossession  of a land otherwise than in accordance with	 theprovisions  of the law, while, the word " retaining "  to  aperson	taking possession in accordance with the  provisionsof  the law but subsequently retaining the  same  illegally.So construed, the appellants' possession of the lands  beingillegal	 from the inception, they could not be described  aspersons retaining possession of the said809lands  in accordance with the provisions of any law for	 thetime being in force, so as to be outside the scope of s. 180of the Act.But the contention may be negatived on a broader basis.	 Canit  be said that the possession by virtue of an order  of  aMagistrate  under the provisions of s. 145 s of the Code  ofCriminal Procedure is one in accordance with the  provisionsof  the law for the time being in force ? It appears  to  usthat  the words " possession in accordance with the law	 forthe  time  being  in force " in the context  can  only	meanpossession with title.	The suit contemplated by the sectionis  one by a landlord against a person who has no  right  topossession.   The  preceding sections, as  we  have  alreadyindicated,  provided  for evicting different  categories  oftenants on specified grounds.  Section 180 provides for	 theeviction of a person who but for the eviction would become ahereditary  tenant  by efflux of the  prescribed  time.	  Ifthere  is any ambiguity-we find none-it is dispelled by	 theheading given to the section and also the description of thenature of the suit given in the Schedule.  The heading readsthus:" Ejectment of person occupying land without Title "." Maxwell On Interpretation of Statutes ", 10th Edn.,  givesthe   scope   of  the  user  of	 such  a  heading   in	 theinterpretation of a section thus, at p. 50 :"The  headings prefixed to sections or sets of	sections  insome  modern  statutes are regarded as	preambles  to  thosesections.   They  cannot  control the  plain  words  of	 thestatute but they may explain ambiguous words."If there is any doubt in the interpretation of the words  inthe section, the heading certainly helps us to resolve	thatdoubt.	Unless the person sought to be evicted has title  orright  to possession, it cannot be said that his  possessionis in accordance with the provisions of the law for the timebeing  in force.  If so, the appellants must establish	thatthe  order of the Magistrate issued under the provisions  ofs. 145 of the Code of102810Criminal  Procedure  conferred a title or a  right  to	pos-session on them.This  leads us to the consideration of the legal  effect  ofthe order made by the Magistrate under s. 145 of the Code ofCriminal  Procedure.   Under  s.  145(6)  of  the  Code,   aMagistrate is authorized to issue an order declaring a partyto  be	entitled  to  possession of  a	land  until  evictedtherefrom  in  due course of law.  The Magistrate  does	 notpurport to decide a party's title or right to possession  ofthe land but expressly reserves that question to be  decidedin due course of law.  The foundation of his jurisdiction ison  apprehension of the breach of the peace, and, with	thatobject,	 he  makes  a temporary order  irrespective  of	 therights	of the parties, which will have to be  agitated	 anddisposed of in the manner provided by law.  The life of	 thesaid order is conterminous with the passing of a decree by aCivil  Court and the moment a Civil Court makes an order  ofeviction, it displaces the order of the Criminal Court.	 ThePrivy  Council	in  Dinomoni  Chowdhrani  v.  Brojo   MohiniChowdhrani (1) tersely states the effect of orders under  s.145 of the Code of Criminal Procedure thus:"These	orders	are  merely police orders  made	 to  preventbreaches   of  the  peace.   They  decide  no  question	  oftitle..............."We, therefore, hold that a provisional order of a Magistratein  regard to possession irrespective of the rights  of	 theparties	 cannot enable a person to resist the suit under  s.180 of the Act.This leaves us with the fourth contention based upon the  U.P.   Zamindari	Abolition  and	Land  Reforms	Rules.	  Toappreciate  this  contention  some  relevant  facts  may  be-recapitulated.	  On  August 14, 1951, the  six	 suits	werestayed	in view of the U. P. Government	 Notification  datedAugust	9,  1951, issued under Ordinance No.  III  of  1951.Thereafter  the suits continued to remain stayed under r.  4of  the	 said Rules.  The appellants  filed  an	 applicationunder  subrule (3) of r. 5 for restarting the trial  of	 thesuits,	and an order directing the restarting of  the  suitswas  made by the Additional Collector, Meerut, on  September22,(1)  (1901) L.R. 29 I.A. 24, 33.8111952.	The  appellants preferred a  revision  against	thatorder to the Board of Revenue.	It was contended before	 theBoard of Revenue that the suits had abated under cl. (v)  ofr.  4 of the Rules, but the Board of Revenue rejected  theircontention  on	the ground that the suits  fell	 within	 theexception to r. 5. It, may also be mentioned that the  ruleswere  amended  on October 8, 1952, i. e.,  after  the  orderdirecting  the restarting of the proceedings.  On  the	saidfacts,	the  first question is whether r. 5 of	the  amendedRules  would apply to a case which was restarted  under	 theprovisions  of	the original Rules.  The following  are	 therelevant  rules	 from  the two sets of	Rules,	i.  e.,	 theoriginal Rules and the amended Rules:Original Rules as publish-	   As amended on 8-10-1952.ed in Gazette dated30-6-1952.4.   Stay of certain suitsand  proceedings.- Allsuits and proceedings whether of the first instance,  appealor  revision  of  the nature  as  hereinafter  specified  inrespect of the area for which a notification under section 4has  been  issued  pending  in any  court  on  the  date  ofvesting, ...shall be stayed:4(v).	 Suits,	 applications  and   proceedings   includingappeals,  references and revisions under section 180 of	 theU. P. Tenancy Act, 1939.As amended on 8-10-1952.4.   All   suits  and  proceedings  whether  of	 the   firstinstance,  appeal or revision of the nature  as	 hereinafterspecified  in respect of the area for which  a	notificationunder  section	4 has been issued pending in any  court	 forhearing	 on  the date  of  vesting..........................shall be stayed:4(v).	 Suits,	 applications  and   proceedings   includingappeals,  references and revisions under section 180 of	 theU.  P. Tenancy Act, 1939, or of similar nature pending in  acivil court, except where the plaintiff is a tenant or wherethe land was the Sir, khudkhast or grove of an	intermediaryand in which rights8125(1).	Disposal of suits and proceedings stayed under	rule4(a)(1).-Every	suit  or  proceeding whether  of  the  firstinstance,  appeal  or revision stayed under clauses  (i)  to(iv) of rule 4 shall be abated by the court or the authoritybefore	which it may be pending after notice to the  partiesand giving them an opportunity to be heard.5(2).	The abatement of any suit or proceeding	 under	sub-rule  (1) shall not debar any person from  establishing	 hisright  in  a court of competent jurisdiction  in  accordancewith  the law for the time being in force in respect of	 anymatter in issue in such suit or proceeding.5(3).  Where a suit has been stayed under clause (v) of rule4 any party to the suit may within six months from the	dateof  vesting  apply  to the court concerned  to	restart	 theissue.have  not accrued' to the defendant under section 16 or	 anyother  section	of  the U.P. Zamindari	Abolition  and	LandReforms Act, 1950.5(1).  Disposal of suits and proceedings stayed under rule 4(a)(1):	 Every	suit or proceeding, whether pending  in	 thecourt  of  first instance, or in appeal or  revision  stayedunder clauses (i) to (v) of rule 4, shall together with	 theappeals	 or revision, if any, be abated by the court or	 theauthority before which it may be pending after notice to theparties and giving them an opportunity to be heard.5(2).	The abatement of any suit or proceeding	 under	sub-rule  (1) shall not debar any person from  establishing	 hisright  in  a court of competent jurisdiction  in  accordancewith  the law for the time being in force in respect of	 anymatter in issue in such suit or proceeding.813From a comparative study of the aforesaid rules, it will  beseen  that there are two fundamental differences B  relevantto the present enquiry, namely, (i) while under the originalRules,	all suits under s. 180 of the Act are stayed,  underthe corresponding rules of the amended Rules an exception ismade  in the case of lands which are Sir, Khudkast or  groveof  an intermediary in which rights have not accrued to	 thedefendant  under  s. 16 or any other section of	 the  U.  P.Zamindari  Abolition  and Land Reforms Act, 1950;  and	(ii)while  under  the original Rules, there is a  procedure	 forrestarting  a  suit  stayed under r. 4,	 there	is  no	suchprocedure under the amended Rules.  In the present case, thesuits  were restarted under the old Rules and thereafter  nostay order was made under the amended Rules.  The  position,therefore, is that there was neither a subsisting stay underthe  old Rules nor any stay order made under the new  Rules.If  so,	 r. 5 of the amended Rules cannot  be  invoked,	 forunder  that rule only a suit stayed under r. 4 (a)(i)  shallbe abated thereunder.  We, therefore, hold that r. 5 of	 theamended Rules cannot be invoked in the present case.That  apart, cl. (v) of sub-rule (2) of r. 4 of the  amendedRules does not in terms apply to a land which is Sir  unlessrights have accrued to a person in possession thereof  unders. 16 or any other section of the U. P. Zamindari  Abolitionand  Land Reforms Act, 1950.  On the findings arrived at  bythe Courts, namely, that the appellants were trespassers  onthe  Sir  land,	 it cannot be disputed that  they  have	 notacquired any rights under the aforesaid provisions.  As	 theoperation of r. 5 is conditioned by cl. (v) of sub-rule	 (2)of  r.	4,  there  is  no  scope  for  invoking	 the  formerprovisions unless cl. (v) of sub-rule (2) of r. 4 applies toa  given  case	and  also an order of  stay  has  been	madethereunder.  In this case, as the suit lands are found to beSir lands and as the appellants have not acquired any of therights	mentioned  in cl. (v) of sub-rule (2) of r.  4,	 thesaid sub-rule cannot apply, and, therefore, r. 5 cannot alsobe invoked.Further, this contention was raised in the revision814petitions filed by the appellants to the Revenue Board,	 andthe  latter  by	 its order dated  September  6,	 1953,	heldagainst them and that order has become final.  For the	saidreasons,  we  must hold that the suits could not  be  abatedunder r. 5 of the amended Rules.In  the	 result,  the appeals fail and	are  dismissed	withcosts.Appeals dismissed.