PETITIONER:SHRIMATI SHANTABAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF BOMBAY & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/03/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.BOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1958 AIR  532		  1959 SCR  265ACT:       Fundamental  Rights,  Enforcement of  Unregistered  document       conferring  right  to cut and appropriate wood  from  forest       land-Proprietary	 interest  vested in  State  by	 subsequent       enactment-Claim	 founded  on  rights  accruing	from   such       document,  if  maintainable -Constitution  of  India,  Arts.       19(1)(f),  19(1)(g)-Madhya Pradesh Abolition of	Proprietary       Rights  (Estates, Mahals, Alienated Lands) Act, 1950 (No.  1       of 1951).HEADNOTE:By  an unregistered document the husband of  the  petitionergranted	 her the right to take and appropriate all kinds  ofwood  from  certain  forests in	 his  Zamindary.   With	 thepassing	 of  the  Madhya Pradesh  Abolition  of	 ProprietaryRights	(Estates,  Mahals, Alienated Lands) Act,  1950,	 allproprietary rights in land vested in the State under s. 3 Ofthat  Act and the petitioner could no longer cut  any  wood.She applied to the Deputy Commissioner and obtained from himan order under s.   6(2)  of the Act permitting her to	workthe  forest and started cutting the trees.   The  DivisionalForest	Officer took action against her and passed an  orderdirecting  that	 her  name might be cancelled  and  the	 cutmaterials forfeited.  She moved the State Government againstthis order but to no effect.  Thereafter she applied to thisCourt  under Art. 32 of the Constitution and contended	thatthe order of Forest Officer infringed her fundamental rightsunder Arts. 19(i)(f) and 19(1)(g) :Held  (per  curiam),  that the order  in  question  did	 notinfringe  the  fundamental rights of  the  petitioner  underArts.  19(1)(f)	 and  19(i)(g)	and  the  petition  must  bedismissed.34266Ananda	Behera v. The State of Orissa, [1955] 2 S.C.R.	gig,followed.Chhotabai  jethabai  Patel and Co. v. The  State  of  MadhyaPradesh, [1953] S.C.R. 476, not followed.Held (per Das C. J., Venkatarama Aiyar, S. K. Das and A.  K.Sarkar, jj.), that it was not necessary to examine the docu-ment  minutely and finally determine its real character	 forthe  purpose  of  deciding the matter  in  controversy,	 forwhatever construction might be put on it, the petition	mustfail.  If the document purported to transfer any proprietaryinterest  in  land, it would be ineffective  both  for	non-registration  under the Registration Act and under s.  3  ofthe Madhya Pradesh Abolition of Proprietary Rights Act whichvested	such interest in the State.  If it was a  profits-a-prendre that was sought to be transferred by it, then  againthe document would be compulsorily registrable as a profits-a-prendre was by its nature immoveable property.  If it	 wasa contract that gave rise to a purely personal right, assum-ing that a contract was property within the meaning of	Art.19(i)(f) and 31(1) Of the Constitution, the petitioner couldnot  complain  as  the	State  had  not	 acquired  or  takenpossession  of the contract which remained her property	 andshe  was  free to dispose of it in any way she	liked.	 TheState not being a party to that contract would not be  boundby it, and even if for some reason or other it could be, theremedy	of  the	 petitioner  lay  by  way  of  a  suit	 forenforcement  of	 the  contract	and  compensation  for	 anypossible breach of it and no question of infringement of anyfundamental right could arise.Per  Bose,  J. The document conferred a right on  the  peti-tioner to enter on the lands in order to cut down and  carryaway,  not merely the standing timber, but also other  treesthat  were  not in a fit state to be felled  at	 once.	 Thegrant  was,  therefore, not merely in  respect	of  moveableproperty  but immoveable property as well.  Being valued  atRs. 26,ooo, the document was compulsorily registrable  underthe  Registration Act otherwise no title or  interest  couldpass  ; and in absence of such registration  the  petitionerhad no fundamental rights that could be enforced, as held bythis court in Ananda Behera's case.Although  standing timber is not immoveable  property  underthe  Transfer of Property Actor the Registration Act,  treesattacked to the earth which are immoveable property under s.3(26)  of  the General Clauses Act, as also S. 2(6)  of	 theRegistration Act, must be so under the Transfer of  PropertyAct as well.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 104 of 1957.Petition  under	 Article  32 of	 the  Constitution  for	 theenforcement of fundamental rights.R.   V. S. Mani, for the petitioner.267H.   N.	 Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of  India,  R.Ganapathy Iyer and R. H. Dhebar for respondents, Nos.  1-3.N.N. Keshwani, for I. N. Shroff, for respondent No.    4.1958.	March  24.  The Judgment of Das	 C.  J.	 VenkataramaAiyar,	S. K. Das and Sarkar JJ. was delivered by Das C.  J.Bose J. delivered a separate Judgment.DAS  C.	 J.-  We  have had the	advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment  prepared by our learned Brother Bose J.  which  hewill  presently	 read.	While we agree with  him  that	thisapplication  must be dismissed, we would prefer to base	 ourdecision on reasons slightly different from those adopted byour learned Brother.  The relevant facts will be found fullyset out by him in his judgment.The petitioner has come up before us on an application underArt.  32 of the Constitution praying for setting  aside	 theorder  made  by	 the respondent No. 3  on  March  19,  1956,directing the petitioner to stop the cutting of forest	woodand for a writ, order or direction to the respondents not tointerfere  in  any manner whatever with the  rights  of	 thepetitioner to enter the forests, appoint her agents,  obtainrenewal	 passes, manufacture charcoal and to exercise  otherrights mentioned in the petition.Since the application is under Art. 32 of the  Constitution,the  petitioner	 must  make  out  that	there  has  been  aninfringement of some fundamental right claimed by her.	 Thepetitioner's  grievance	 is  that the  offending  order	 hasinfringed  her	fundamental right under	 Art.  19(1)(f)	 and19(1)(g).   She	 claims	 to  have  derived  the	 fundamentalrights,	 which	are alleged to have been infringed,  from  adocument  dated	 April 26, 1948, whereby  her  husband	ShriBalirambhau Doye, the proprietor of certain forests in eightseveral	 Tehsils,  granted  to her the	right  to  take	 andappropriate  all kinds of wood-Building wood, fuel wood	 andbamboos, etc.-from the said forests for a period from the268date of the document up to December 26, 1960.  The  terms ofthe document have been sufficiently set out in the  judgmentto be presently delivered by Bose J. and need not be set outhere.	The petitioner has paid Rs. 26,000 as  considerationfor  the  rights granted to her.  The  genuineness  of	thisdocument and the good faith of the parties thereto have	 notbeen  questioned.   The	 document,  however,  has  not	beenregistered under the Indian Registration Act.The nature of the rights claimed by the petitioner has to beascertained  on	 a proper interpretation  of  the  aforesaiddocument.   We	do not consider it necessary to	 examine  oranalyse	 the document minutely or to finally determine	whatwe  may regard as the true meaning and effect thereof,	for,as  will be presently seen, whatever construction be put  onthis document, the petitioner cannot complain of the  breachof any of her fundamental rights.If the document is construed as conveying to her any part orshare  in  the proprietary right of the grantor,  then,	 notbeing  registered  under the Indian  Registration  Act,	 thedocument does not affect the immoveable property or give herany  right  to	any  share or  interest	 in  the  immoveableproperty.   Assuming  that  she	 had  acquired	a  share  orinterest  in the proprietary right in spite of the  documentnot having been registered, even then that right has  vestedin  the State under s. 3 of the Madhya Pradesh Abolition  ofProprietary  Rights (Estates, Mahals, Alienated Lands)	Act,1950,  and she may in that case only claim  compensation  ifany  is	 payable to her under the Act.	If the	document  isconstrued  as purely a license granted to her to enter	uponthe  land,  then that license must be taken to	have  becomeextinguished as soon as the grantor's proprietary rights  inthe  land vested in the State under s. 3 of the Act. if	 thedocument  is  construed as a license coupled with  a  grant,then the right acquired by her would be either in the natureof some profits-a-prendre which, being an interest in  land,is  immoveable property or a purely personal right  under  acontract.  If the document is construed-as having given	 hera profits-a-prendre which is an interest in land, then also269the  document  will not affect the immoveable  property	 andwill  not  operate to transmit to the  petitioner  any	suchprofits-a-prendre  which  is in the  nature  of'  immoveableproperty, as the document has not been registered under	 theIndian	Registration Act, as has been held in Ananda  Beherav.  The	 State of Orissa (1).  If it is	 a  purely  personalright,	then such right will have no higher efficacy than  aright  acquired	 under	a  contract.   If,  therefore,	 thedocument is construed as a matter of contract, then assumingbut  without deciding that a contract is a  property  withinArts. 19(1)(f) or 31(1) of the Constitution, she cannot com-plain, for the State has not acquired or taken possession ofher  contract in any way.  The State is not a party  to	 thecontract and claims no benefit under it.  The petitioner  isstill the owner and is still in possession of that contract,regarded as her property, and she can hold it or dispose  ofit  as	she  likes and if she can  find	 a  purchaser.	 Thepetitioner is free to sue the grantor upon that contract andrecover damages by way of compensation.	 The State is not  aparty  to the contract and is not bound by the contract	 andaccordingly  acknowledges  no liability under  the  contractwhich being purely personal does not run with the land.	  Ifthe  petitioner	 maintains that, by some process  not  quiteapparent,  the	State is also bound by that  contract,	eventhen  she, as the owner of that contract, can only  seek  toenforce	 the contract in the ordinary way and sue the  Stateif she be so advised, as to which we say nothing, and  claimwhatever damages or compensation she may be entitled to	 forthe  alleged breach of it.  This aspect of the	matter	doesnot appear to have been brought to the notice of this  Courtwhen it decided the case of Chhotabai Jethabai Patel and Co.v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (2) and had it been so  done,we  have no doubt that case would not have been	 decided  inthe way it was done.For  the reasons stated above, whatever rights, if any,	 mayhave accrued to the petitioner under that document on any ofthe several interpretations noted above, the cannot complainof the infringement by the(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 919,(2) [1953] S.C.R. 476.270State of any fundamental right for the enforcement of  whichalone  a  petition  under  Art.	 32  is	 maintainable.	 We,therefore, agree that this petition should be dismissed withcosts.BOSE  J.-This  is  a  writ petition under  Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution  in  which	 the  petitioner  claims  that	 herfundamental  right to cut and collect timber in the  forestsin question has been infringed.The petitioner's husband, Balirambhau Doye, was the Zamindarof   Pandharpur.   On  April  26,  1948,  he   executed	  anunregistered document, that called itself a lease, in favourof  his wife, the petitioner.  The deed gives her the  rightto enter upon certain areas in the zamindari in order to cutand   take  out	 bamboos,  fuel	 wood  and  teak.    Certainrestrictions  are  put on the cutting, and  the	 felling  ofcertain	 trees is prohibited.  But in the main, that is	 thesubstance of the right.	 The term of the deed is from  April26, 1948 to December 26, 1960, and the consideration is	 Rs.26,000.The  petitioner says that she worked the forests till  1950.In  that  year the Madhya Pradesh Abolition  of	 ProprietaryRights	(Estates, Mahals, Alienated Lands) Act, 1950,  whichcame into force on January 26, 1951, was enacted.Under  s. 3 of that Act, all proprietary rights in the	landvest  in  the  State  on  and  from  the  date	fixed  in  anotification  issued under sub-s. (1).	The date  fixed	 forthe  vesting in this area was March 31, 1951.	After  that,the petitioner was stopped from cutting any more trees.	 Shetherefore  applied  to the  Deputy  Commissioner,  Bhandara,under  s.  6(2) of the Act for validating  the	lease.	 TheDeputy	Commissioner  held,  on August 16,  1955,  that	 thesection	 did not apply because it only applied to  transfersmade after March 16, 1950, whereas the petitioner's transferwas  made on April 26, 1948.  But, despite that, he went  onto hold that the Act did not apply to transfers made  beforeMarch  16,  1950,  and so leases before that  could  not  bequestioned.   He  also held that the lease was	genuine	 andordered	 that the petitioner be allowed to work the  forestssubject to the conditions set out in271her lease and to the rules framed under s. 218(A) of the  C.P. Land Revenue Act.It  seems  that	 the petitioner	 claimed  compensation	fromGovernment  for being ousted from the forests from  1951  to1955  but  gave up the claim on the understanding  that	 shewould  be  allowed  to work the forests	 for  the  remainingperiod	 of   the  term	 in  accordance	 with	the   DeputyCommissioner's order dated August 16, 1955.She  thereupon	went  to the Divisional	 Forest	 Officer  atBhandara  and  asked for permission to work the	 forests  inaccordance with the above order.  She applied twice and,  asall  the comfort she got was a letter saying that her  claimwas being examined, she seems to have taken the law into herown  hands,  entered  the forests and  started	cutting	 thetrees; or so the Divisional Forest Officer says.The Divisional Forest Officer thereupon took action  againsther  for  unlawful  cutting and directed that  her  name  becancelled and that the cut materials be forfeited.  This wason March 19, 1956.  Because of this, the petitioner went  upto the Government of Madhya Pradesh and made an	 applicationdated September 27, 1956, asking that the Divisional  ForestOfficer	 be  directed  to  give	 the  petitioner   immediatepossession  and not to interfere with her rights.  Then,  asnothing tangible happened, she made a petition to this Courtunder Art. 32 of the Constitution on August 26, 1957.The  foundation	 of the petitioner's rights is the  deed  ofApril 26, 1948.	 The exact nature of this document was	muchcanvassed before us in the arguments by both sides.  It	 wassaid  at  various  times by one side or the other  to  be  acontract  conferring  contractual  rights,  a  transfer,   alicence	 coupled with a grant, that it related to move	ableproperty   and	that,  contra,	it  related  to	  immoveableproperty.  It will be necessary, therefore, to ascertain itstrue nature before I proceed further.As I have said, the document calls itself a " lease deed  ",but  that  is not conclusive because the true  nature  of  adocument cannot be disguised by labelling it something else.272Clause (1) of the deed runs-"  We  executed this lease deed ... and which by  this	deedhave  been leased out to you in consideration of Rs.  26,000for taking out timber, fuel and bamboos etc."At the end of clause (2), there is the following paragraph:" You No. 1 are the principal lessee, while Nos. 2 and 3 arethe sub-lessees."Clause	 (3)  contains	a  reservation	in  favour  of	 theproprietor.   A certain portion of the cutting was  reservedfor the proprietor and the petitioner was only given  rightsin the remainder.  The relevant passage runs:"  Pasas  16, 17, 18 are already leased out to you  in	yourlease.	 The  cutting  of its wood be  made  by	 the  estateitself.	  Thereafter, whatever stock shall remain  standing,it shall be part of your lease.	 Of this stock, so cut,	 youshall have no claim whatsoever."Clause (5) runs-" Besides the above pasas- the whole forest is leased out toyou.  Only the lease, of the forest woods is given to  you."Clause (7) states-"  The proprietorship of the estate and yourself are  (in  away) co-related and you are managing the same and  thereforein  the lease itself and concerning it, you  should  conductyourself  only	as  a lease holder explicitly  Only  in	 theabsence of the Malik, you should look after the estate as  aMalik and only to that extent you should hold charge as suchand conduct yourself as such with respect' to sub-lessees."The rest of this clause is-Without the signatures of the Malik, nothing, would be	heldvalid	and  acceptable,  including  even  your	 own   pasastransactions,........... The lease under reference shall notbe alterable or alienable by any body."The  only  other clause to which reference need be  made  isclause (8).  It runs-273"You  should not be permitted to recut the wood in the	areawhich  was  once  subject  to  the  operation  of   cutting.otherwise the area concerned will revert to the estate.	 Thecutting	 of the forests should be right at the land  surfaceand there should not be left any deep furrows or holes."I  will examine the seventh clause first.  The	question  iswhether it confers any proprietary rights or interest on thepetitioner.  I do not think it does.  It is clumsily  wordedbut  I think that the real meaning is this.  The  petitioneris  the	 `proprietor's	wife  and  it  seems  that  she	 wasaccustomed to do certain acts of management in his  absence.The purpose of clause (7) is to ensure that when she acts inthat  capacity	she  is not to have the right  to  make	 anyalteration  in the deed.  There are no words of transfer  orconveyance  and I do not think any part of  the	 proprietaryrights,	 or  any  interest in them,  are  conveyed  by	thisclause.	  It does not even confer rights of management.	  Itonly  recites  the  existing state  of	affairs	 and  eithercurtails or clarifies powers as manager that are assumed  toexist when the proprietor is away.Although  the document repeatedly calls itself a  lease,  itconfers	 no  rights of enjoyment in the	 land.	 Clause	 (5)makes that clear, because it says-Only the lease of the forest woods is given to you' .In my opinion, the document only confers a right to enter onthe  lands in order to cut down certain kinds of  trees	 andcarry  away the wood.  To that extent the matter is  coveredby  the decision in Chhotabhai Jethabhai Patel & Co. v.	 TheState  of Madhya Pradesh (1), and by the later	decision  inAnanda Behera v. The State of Orissa (2), where it was	heldthat  a	 transaction of this kind amounts to  a	 licence  toenter on the land coupled with a grant to out certain  treeson it and carry away the wood.	In England it is a profit  aprendre	 because it is a grant of the produce of the soil  "like grass, or turves or trees ". See 12 Halsbury's Laws  ofEngland (Simonds Edition) page 522, Note (m).(2)  [1953]S.C.R.476,483.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 919, 922, 923.35274It  is not a " transfer of a right to enjoy  the  immoveableproperty " itself (s. 105 of the Transfer of Property  Act),but a grant of a right to enter upon the land and take	awaya part of the produce of the soil from it.  In a lease,	 oneenjoys the property but has no right to take it away.  In  aprofit a prendre one has a licence to enter on the land, notfor  the purpose of enjoying it, but for removing  somethingfrom it, namely, a part of the produce of the soil.Much  of the discussion before us centred round	 the  MadhyaPradesh	 Abolition of Proprietary Rights  (Estates,  Mahals,Alienated Lands) Act of 1950.  But I need not consider	thatbecause	 this,	being  a writ petition under  Art.  32,	 thepetitioner  must  establish a fundamental  right.   For	 thereasons given in Ananda Behera's case (1), I would hold thatshe  has  none.	 This runs counter to  Chhotebhai  JethabhaiPatel's case but, as that was a decision of three Judges andthe other five, I feel that we are bound to follow the latercase,  that is to say, Ananda Behera's case (1),  especiallyas I think it lays down the law aright.The  learned counsel for the petitioner contended  that	 hisclient's rights flowed out of a contract and so, relying  onChhotebhai  Jethabhai Patel's case(2), he contended that  hewas entitled to a writ.	 As a matter of fact, the rights  inthe  earlier case were held to flow from a licence  and	 notfrom  a contract simpliciter (see page 483) but it  is	truethat the learned Judges held that a writ petition lay.In  so	far as the petitioner rests her	 claim	in  contractsimpliciter, I think she has no case because of the  reasonsgiven in Ananda Behera's case (1):"  If the petitioners' rights are no more than the right  toobtain	future goods under the Sale of Goods Act, then	thatis  a  purely personal right arising out of  a	contract  towhich the State of Orissa is not a party and in any event  arefusal	 to  perform the contract that gives  rise  to	thatright  may  amount  to a breach of contract  but  cannot  beregarded as a breach of any fundamental right."To bring the claim under Art. 19(1)(f) or Art. 31(1)(1) [1955]2 S.C.R. 919.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 476.275something  more	 must  be  disclosed,  namely,	a  right  toproperty  of which one is the owner or in which one  has  aninterest apart from a purely contractual right.	  Therefore,the claim founded in contract simpliciter disappears.	But,in so far as it is founded either on the licence, or on	 thegrant,	the  question turns on whether this is	a  grant  ofmoveable  or immovable property.  Following the decision  inAnanda Behera's case (1), I would hold that a right to enteron land for the purpose of cutting and carrying away  timberstanding on it is a benefit that arises out of land.   Thereis  no difference there between the English and	 the  Indianlaw.  The English law will be found in 12 Halsbury's Laws ofEngland (Simonds Edition) pages 620 and 621.  But that stillleaves	the question whether this is moveable or  immoveableproperty.Under  s.  3 (26) of the General Clauses Act,  it  would  beregarded  as " immovable property " because it is a  benefitthat  arises  out  of the land and also	 because  trees	 areattached  to the earth.	 On the other hand, the Transfer  ofProperty  Act  says  in s. 3 that  standing  timber  is	 notimmoveable property for the purposes of that Act and so doess. 2 (6) of the Registration Act.  The question is which  ofthese two definitions is to prevail.Now  it	 will  be observed that " trees "  are	regarded  asimmoveable  property because they are attached to or  rootedin  the	 earth.	  Section  2(6)	 of  the  Registration	 Actexpressly says so and, though the Transfer of Pro party	 Actdoes  not define immoveable property beyond saying  that  itdoes  not include " standing timber, growing crops or  grass",  trees  attached to earth (except standing  timber),	 areimmovable property, even under the Transfer of Property Act,because	 of  s. 3 (26) of the General Clauses Act.   In	 theabsence of a special definition, the general definition mustprevail.   Therefore,  trees (except  standing	timber)	 areimmoveable property.Now,  what is the difference between standing timber  and  atree ? It is clear that there must be a distinction  becausethe Transfer of Property Act draws one in the definitions of" immoveable property " and(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 919.276"  attached  to the earth " ; and it seems to  me  that	 thedistinction  must lie in the difference between a  tree	 andtimber.	  It  is to be noted that the exclusion is  only  ofstanding timber " and not of " timber trees".    Timber is well enough known to be- "  wood suitable for building houses, bridges, ships  etc.,whether	 on  the  tree	or  cut	 and  seasoned.	  (Webster'sCollegiate Dictionary).Therefore,  " standing timber " must be a tree that is in  astate  fit for these purposes and, further, a tree  that  ismeant  to  be converted into timber so shortly that  it	 canalready be looked upon as timber for all practical  purposeseven  though  it is still standing.  I? not, it is  still  atree  because,	unlike	timber, it  will  continue  to	drawsustenance from the soil.Now, of course, a tree will continue to draw sustenance fromthe soil so long as it continues to stand and live; and thatphysical fact of life cannot be altered by giving it anothername  and calling it " standing timber ". But the amount  ofnourishment it takes, if it is felled at a reasonably  earlydate,  is  so  negligible that it can  be  ignored  for	 allpractical  purposes and though, theoretically, there  is  nodistinction  between one class of tree and another,  if	 thedrawing	 of  nourishment from the soil is the basis  of	 therule,  as I hold it to be, the law is grounded, not so	muchon  logical abstractions as on sound and  practical  common-sense.	 It grew empirically from instance to  instance	 anddecision  to  decision	until a	 recognisable  and  workablepattern emerged; and here, this is the shape it has taken.The distinction, set out above, has been made in a series ofIndian	cases  that  are collected in  Mulla's	Transfer  ofProperty  Act, 4th edition, at pages 16 and 21. At page	 16,the learned author says-"Standing  timber  are	trees fit for use  for	building  orrepairing houses.  This is an exception to the general	rulethat  growing trees are immoveable property." At page 21  hesays-"Trees and shrubs may be sold apart from the land, to be cutand  removed  as wood, and in that case	 they  are  moveableproperty.  But if the transfer277includes the right to fell the trees for a term of years, sothat  the transferee derives a benefit from further  growth,the transfer is treated as one of immoveable' property."The  learned author also refers to the English law and	saysat page 21-"  In English law an unconditional sale of growing trees  tobe  cut by the purchaser, has been held to be a sale  of  aninterest  in land; but not so if it is stipulated that	theyare to be removed as soon as possible."In my opinion, the distinction is sound.  Before a tree	 canbe  regarded  as " standing timber " it must be	 in  such  astate that, if cut, it could be used as timber; and when  inthat  state  it must be cut reasonably early.  The  rule  isprobably  grounded on generations of experience in  forestryand commerce and this part of the law may have grown out  ofthat.	It  is	easy to see that the  tree  might  otherwisedeteriorate  and that its continuance in a forest  after  ithas passed its prime might hamper the growth of younger woodand spoil the forest and eventually the timber market.	 Buthowever	 that may be, the legal basis for the rule  is	thattrees that are not cut continue to draw nourishment from thesoil and that the benefit of this goes to the grantee.Now,  how does the document in question-regard this  In	 thefirst place, the duration of the grant is twelve years.	  Itis  evident that trees that will be fit for  cutting  twelveyears hence will not be fit for felling now.  Therefore,  itis not a mere sale of the trees as wood.  It is more.  It isnot  just a right to cut a tree but also to derive a  profit-from  the soil itself, in the shape of the  nourishment  inthe soil that goes into the tree and maker, it grow till  itis  of	a size and age fit for felling as  timber;  and,  ifalready	 of that size, in order to enable it to continue  tolive till the petitioner chooses to fell it.This  aspect is emphasised in clause (5) of the	 deed  wherethe  cutting  of teak trees under 1/2  feet  is	 prohibited.But,  as  soon as they reach that girth	 within	 the  twelveyears, they can be felled.  And clause (4) speaks of a firstcutting and a second cutting and a278third cutting.	As regards trees that could be cut at  once,there is no obligation to do so.  They can be left  standingtill such time as the petitioner chooses to fell them.	Thatmeans  that  they are not to be converted into timber  at  areasonably  early date and that the intention is  that	theyshould	continue to live and derive nourishment and  benefitfrom  the soil; in other words, they are to be	regarded  astrees and not as timber that is standing and is about to  becut and used for the purposes for which timber is meant.  Itfollows	 that the grant is not only of standing	 timber	 butalso  of trees that are not in a fit state to be  felled  atonce but which are to be felled gradually as they attain therequired  girth	 in  the course of the	twelve	years;.	 andfurther,  of  trees that the petitioner is not	required  tofell and convert into timber at once even though they are ofthe required age and growth.  Such trees cannot be  regardedas  timber  that happens to be standing because	 timber,  assuch,  does  not  draw	nourishment  from  the	soil.	 If,therefore,  they  can be left for an appreciable  length  oftime, they must be regarded as trees and not as timber.	 Thedifference lies there.The result is that, though such trees as can be regarded  asstanding timber at the date of the document, both because oftheir  size and girth and also because of the  intention  tofell  at an early date, would be moveable, property for	 thepurposes of the Transfer of Property and Registration  Acts,the remaining trees that are also covered by the grant	willbe  immoveable	property,  and as the  total  value  is	 Rs.26,000, the deed requires registration.	 Being unregistered,it passes no title or interest and, therefore, as in  AnandaBehera's  case (1) the petitioner has no  fundamental  rightwhich she can enforce.My lord the Chief Justice and my learned brothers prefer  toleave  the  question whether the deed here is a lease  or  alicence	 coupled with a grant, open because, on either	viewthe  petitioner must fail.  But we are all agreed  that	 thepetition be dismissed with costs.				    Petition dismissed.(I) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 919.279