PETITIONER:THE CHARTERED BANK, BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE CHARTERED BANK EMPLOYEES' UNION.DATE OF JUDGMENT:04/04/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  919		  1960 SCR  (3) 441 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC 411	 (3) R	    1963 SC 601	 (6) R	    1965 SC 917	 (5) APL	    1965 SC1496	 (5) R	    1966 SC1672	 (6) F	    1972 SC1343	 (11) RF	    1973 SC2634	 (6) RF	    1975 SC 661	 (13,15) RF	    1980 SC1896	 (173)ACT:Industrial   Dispute--Chief  Cashier  of  Bank	 withdrawingguarantee  in respect of Assistant  Cashier--Termination  ofservice	 of  Assistant	Cashier	 by  Bank  without   holdingenquiry--Validity  of--All India Industrial  Tribunal  (BankDisputes) Award, 1953, paras. 521, 522(1).HEADNOTE:The  system  of	 working  in  the  cash	 department  of	 theappellant Bank was that there was a Chief Cashier and  therewere  about thirty Assistant Cashiers under him.  The  ChiefCashier	 had  to  give security for the	 work  of  the	cashdepartment; the Assistant Cashiers were employed upon  beingintroduced  by	the Chief Cashier who guaranteed  each	suchemployee.  There was long standing practice in the Bank thatat the end of the day when the cash was locked up under	 thesupervision of the Chief Cashier, all the assistant cashiershad  to be present so that the cash could be checked  beforebeing  locked  up.  In spite of reminders  C,  an  AssistantCashier, had been leaving the Bank without the permission ofthe Chief Cashier for some time before the cash was  checkedand locked up.	The Chief Cashier reported the matter to themanagement,  withdrew  his  guarantee in respect  of  C	 andstated that unless the services of C were dispensed with hisconduct	 would affect the security of the  cash	 department.The Bank terminated the services of C in accordance with theprovisions  of	para.  522(1) of the  All  India  IndustrialTribunal  (Bank Disputes) Award, 1953, without	holding	 anyenquiry	 against  C. The Industrial Tribunal  to  which	 thedispute	 was  referred	held that this was in  fact  and  inreality a case of termination of services for misconduct andthe  Bank ought to have followed the procedure laid down  inpara. 521 of the Bank Award for taking disciplinary  action,that the termination of service was illegal and improper andthat  C was entitled to reinstatement with full	 back  wagesand other benefits :Held,  that  the  services of  the  Assistant  Cashier	wereproperly terminated by the Bank.  There was no doubt that anemployer could not dispense with the services of a permanentemployee  by  mere  notice and	claim  that  the  industrialtribunal   had	 no  jurisdiction  to	inquire	  into	 thecircumstances  of such termination.  Even in a case of	thiskind the requirement of bona fides was essential and if	 thetermination  of	 service was a colourable  exercise  of	 thepower  or  as  a result of victimisation  or  unfair  labourpractice the tribunal had jurisdiction to interfere.   Wherethe  termination  of service was  capricious,  arbitrary  orunnecessarily	harsh  that  may  be  cogent   evidence	  ofvictimisation  or  unfair labour practice.  In	the  presentcase the security of the442Bank was involved and if the Bank decided that it would	 notgo  into  the squabble between the Chief Cashier and  C	 andwould  use para. 522(1) of the Bank Award to  terminate	 theservices  of C it could not be said the Bank was  exercisingits  power under para. 522(1) in a. colourable	manner.	  Itwas  not  necessary that in every case where  there  was  anallegation  of misconduct the procedure under para. 521	 fortaking disciplinary action should be followed.Buckingham  and	 Carnatic Company Ltd. v.  Workers'  of	 theCOmpany, 1952 L.A.C. 490, approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 14 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the Award dated  February	 21,1958, of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal,  Nagpurat Bombay, in Reference CGIT No. 12 of 1957.Sachin	Chaudhury,  S.	N. Andley,  J.	B.  Dadachanji	and,Rameshwar Nath, for the appellant.A.   S.	 R. Chari and Y. Kumar, for the	 respondents.  1960.April 4. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.-This  is  an  appeal by  special  leave  in  anindustrial  matter.   The appellant is The  Chartered  Bank,Bombay	(hereinafter called the Bank).	There was a  disputebetween	 the Bank and its workmen regarding the	 terminationof  the	 service, of one Colsavala (hereinafter	 called	 therespondent)  who was working as an assistant cashier in	 theBank.	The system of working in the cash department of	 theBank  is  that there is a chief cashier and  under  him	 areabout  thirty assistant cashiers.  The Chief Cashier has  togive   security	 for  the  work	 of  the  cash	 department.Consequently  all assistant cashiers are employed  upon	 theintroduction  of the Chief Cashier who guarantees each	suchemployee.   By	virtue of this guarantee the  Chief  Cashieralone  is  unconditionally responsible to the Bank  for	 anyshortage  which	 might occur in the cash department  and  nosecurity  is  taken  from  the	assistant  cashiers  workingtherein.   In  view of this guarantee by the  Chief  Cashierthere  has been a longstanding practice in the Bank that  atthe  end  of the day when the cash is locked  up  under	 thesupervision of the Chief Cashier, all the assistant cashiershave to be present so that the cash may be checked before443being  locked  up.  Assistant Cashiers	therefore  can	onlyleave  the  Bank  before the locking up of  the	 cash  afterobtaining permission of the Chief Cashier.On  January  4,	 1957, the Chief  Cashier  reported  to	 themanagement  that  the respondent had been leaving  the	Bankwithout	 his permission for some time past before  the	cashwas  checked  and  locked  up in spite of  the	issue  of  adepartmental  circular in that behalf on December 24,  1956,by  which all assistant cashiers (including the	 respondent)were reminded of the longstanding practice that no assistantcashier should leave the Bank without the permission of	 theChief  Cashier before the cash was checked and	locked	tip.The  Chief  Cashier therefore stated that he was  unable  tocontinue  to  guarantee the respondent and that	 unless	 therespondent's  service  was dispensed with his  conduct	willaffect	the  security of the cash department.  As  the	Bankwas- not prepared to change the system in force in the	cashdepartment,  the  management decided to	 dispense  with	 theservice	 of  the respondent in accordance with the  mode  oftermination prescribed by paragraph 522(1) of the All  IndiaIndustrial  Tribunal  (Bank Disputes) Award of	March,	1953(hereinafter  referred to as the Bank Award).  The Bank	 wasalso   unable  to  employ  the	respondent  in	 any   otherdepartment.   It therefore informed the respondent on  March29, 1957, that as the guarantee covering his employment	 hadbeen  withdrawn by the Chief Cashier the Bank was unable  tocontinue to employ him.	 The notice required under paragraph522(1)	was  given  and the amount  due	 to  the  respondentincluding retrenchment compensation was paid to him and	 hisservice	 was terminated.  Thereupon a dispute was raised  bythe  workmen  of the Bank and a reference was  made  by	 theCentral	 Government to the Industrial Tribunal with  respectto the "alleged wrongful termination of the services of ShriN.  D.	Colsavala  by the Chartered Bank,  Bombay,  and	 therelief, if any, to which he is entitled."The  case on behalf of the respondent was that he  had	beenworking	 in the Bank since September 1, 1937,  honestly	 andefficiently  as an assistant cashier in the cash  departmentThe previous Chief Cashier who444was  the father of the present Chief Cashier however  becamehostile to him since 1943, because he claimed his legitimatedues  for  overtime  work and leave  which  the	 then  ChiefCashier was not prepared to allow.  Further the respondent'sletter	of  appointment	 did  not oblige  him  to  give	 anysecurity  or  to  procure any guarantee	 and  if  the  ChiefCashier had given any guarantee to the Bank, the  respondentwas  not concerned with it and had even no knowledge of	 it.He  was given no opportunity to contest the reasons for	 thewithdrawal of the guarantee by the Chief Cashier; nor was heasked  to furnish security or give a fidelity bond, even  ifthe   Chief  Cashier  had  withdrawn  the   guarantee.	  Inconsequence the discharge of the respondent from service  onthe ground given by the Bank was entirely illegal,  wrongfuland  unjustified and he was entitled to reinstatement or  inthe alternative to full compensation for loss of employment.The  case of the Bank was that it was entitled to  terminatethe service of the respondent under paragraph 522(1) of	 theBank  Award  and  it was not incumbent on it  to  state	 thereasons	 for such termination and the reasons could  not  beinquired   into	 or  examined  by  the	tribunal.   In	 thealternative it was submitted that if the tribunal was of theopinion that it was open to it to inquire into the  reasons,the Bank's case was that the respondent was not dismissed ordischarged by way of punishment for any misconduct and	thatthe  Bank  merely  terminated his  service  under  paragraph522(1)	of  the	 Bank  Award,  as  his	guarantee  had	beenwithdrawn  by  the Chief Cashier and it	 was  impossible  tocontinue to employ him in the circumstances, the Bank being.unprepared to change its system of working which has alreadybeen  mentioned above.	It was also said that the  Bank	 wasnot  bound to transfer the respondent to another  departmentand  in	 any  case the	respondent's  training,	 experience,ability	 or  record did not fit him for work  in  any  otherdepartment of the Bank.The  tribunal held that even though the Bank had  chosen  tofollow	the procedure laid down in paragraph 522(1)  of	 theBank Award which provides for termination of employment	 "incases not involving445disciplinary action for misconduct, by three months'  noticeor on payment of three months' pay and allow. ances in	lieuof notice", this did not preclude it from inquiring into thereasons for the termination of service and into the legalityand/or	propriety of the action taken by the bank  and	thatparagraph  522(1)  did not give a free hand to the  Bank  todispense  with the service of a permanent employee at  will.It  also  held that it was always open to  the	tribunal  toinquire into the bona fides as well as justifiability of theaction taken.  It then went into the circumstances in  whichthe  termination  of service took place and was	 of  opinionthat  this was in fact and in reality a case of	 terminationof  service for misconduct, and that it was the duty of	 theBank to follow the procedure for taking disciplinary  actionfor the alleged insubordination and persistent	disobedienceof  the orders of the Chief Cashier by the  respondent	withrespect	 to  leaving the Bank without his  prior  permissionbefore	the cash was checked and looked up and	inasmuch  asthe  Bank  failed to follow the requisite procedure  as	 waslaid   down  in	 paragraph  521	 of  the  Bank	Award,	 thetermination of the service of the respondent was illegal andimproper and he was entitled to reinstatement with full backwages  and other benefits.  It is this order which is  beingchallenged before us by the Bank.The  main  contention on behalf the Bank is  that  the	viewtaken by the tribunal that in every case where there may  besome  misconduct  the  Bank is bound  to  take	disciplinaryaction under paragraph 521 of the Bank Award makes paragraph522(1)	completely otiose and is erroneous.  Further  it  iscontended  that	 in the peculiar position obtaining  in	 thecash  department  of  the Bank	whereby	 the  Chief  Cashierguarantees all the assistant cashiers working under him, theBank did not want to go into the squabble between the  ChiefCashier	 and  the respondent and as the	 Chief	Cashier	 hadwithdrawn the guarantee of the respondent, the Bank  decidedwithout apportioning any blame between the Chief Cashier andthe  respondent	 to act under paragraph 522(1) of  the	BankAward.	It is urged that paragraph 522(1) of the Bank  Awardis57446particularly meant to meet situation,,; like this which	 mayarise in a banking concern.The first question that arises therefore is the scope of thepower of the Bank to act under paragraph 522(1) of the	BankAward, particularly in the peculiar situation prevailing  inthe  cash department of the Bank.  The position in the	cashdepartment of the banks was considered by the Bank Award  inChapter	 XXI with respect to giving of security.   In  para-graphs	417 and 418, the existing practice in various  banksis  summarised and it takes one of three forms,	 namely--(i)every member of the staff is to give security, (ii) the headcashier	 gives	a guarantee on behalf of  all  the  cashiersworking	 under	him, and (iii) where  the  treasurer  systemprevails, the treasurer enters into a contract with the bankand  recommends	 the employees for employment  in  the	cashdepartment  and	 guarantees  their  fidelity  and  they	 arethereupon appointed by the bank.  The tribunal was not rightin  saying that the system which was prevailing in the	Bankwas peculiar to it and was not mentioned in the Bank  Award.It will be seen that the system in the Bank is of the secondkind  noticed  in  the Bank Award where	 the  Chief  Cashierguarantees  all	 those	working	 under	him.   It  is	alsomentioned in the Bank Award that the Chief Cashier generallytakes  security deposits from persons working under him	 butthat  did not appear to be the invariable rule, and  in	 theBank  the Chief Cashier does not take any security from	 hissubordinates.  In such a system the Bank has to depend	uponthe security given by the Chief Cashier and his guarantee ofthe employees working under him.  It is impossible to acceptthat  this way of working was not known to  the	 respondent.The  Bank  has	produced the  respondent's  application	 foremployment and it is significant that it is addressed to theChief Cashier and not to the management of the Bank and thisbears  out the contention of the Bank that the	subordinatesin the cash department are employed on the recommendation ofthe  Chief Cashier who gives guarantee for them.   Nor	doesthe  Bank's  contention	 that no one employed  in  the	cashdepartment  leaves  without  permission	 till  the  cash  ischecked and locked up appears447improbable,  for  the  practice	 seems	necessary  for	 thesecurity  of the cash department.  Therefore when  the	Bankwas  faced with the report of the Chief Cashier	 dated	4-1-1957, it had to decide in the special circumstances of	thiscase  what  action  should be taken  on	 that  report.	 Twocourses	 were open to it: it could have	 taken	disciplinaryaction	under  paragraph 521 of the Bank Award or  it  couldhave acted under paragraph 522(1).  The submission on behalfof the Bank is that it did not want to go into the  squabblebetween	 the  Chief Cashier and the respondent	and  as	 theChief  Cashier had withdrawn his guarantee with	 respect  tothe  respondent	 it  acted bona	 fide  in  proceeding  underparagraph  522(1) and thus no question arose of	 its  takingdisciplinary action against the respondent.There is no doubt that an employer cannot dispense with	 theservices  of a permanent employee by mere notice  and  claimthat the industrial tribunal has no jurisdiction to  inquireinto the circumstances in which such termination of  servicesimpliciter   took   place.   Many  standing   orders	haveprovisions  similar to paragraph 522(1) of the	Bank  Award,and the scope of the power of the employer to act under suchprovisions  has	 come  up for  consideration  before  labourtribunals  many a time.	 In Buckingham and Carnatic  CompanyLtd., Etc., v. Workers of the Company, etc. (1), the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  had occasion to  consider	this  matterrelating  to  discharge	 by notice or  in  lieu	 thereof  bypayment of wages for a certain period without assigning	 anyreason.	 It was of opinion that even in a case of this	kindthe  requirement  of  bona fides is  essential	and  if	 thetermination of service is a colourable exercise of the poweror  as a result of victimisation or unfair  labour  practicethe  industrial	 tribunal  would have  the  jurisdiction  tointervene  and set aside such termination.  Further it	heldthat  where  the  termination  of  services  is	 capricious,arbitrary or unnecessarily harsh on the part of the employerjudged	by normal standards of a reasonable man that may  becogent evidence of victimisation or unfair labour  practice.We are of opinion that this correctly lays down the scope ofthe power of the tribunal to(1)  [1952] L.A.C. 490.448interfere where service is terminated simpliciter under	 theprovisions  of a contract or of standing orders or  of	someaward  like  the Bank Award.  In order to  judge  this,	 thetribunal  will have to go into all the	circumstances  whichled  to the termination simpliciter and an  employer  cannotsay  that  it  is not bound to	disclose  the  circumstancesbefore	the tribunal.  The form of the order of	 terminationis not conclusive of the true nature of the order, for it ispossible  that	the form may be merely a camouflage  for  anorder  of dismissal for misconduct.  It is therefore  alwaysopen  to the tribunal to go behind the form and look at	 thesubstance;  and if it comes to the conclusion, for  example,that  though  in  form	the  order  amounts  to	 terminationsimpliciter it in reality cloaks a dismissal for  misconductit  will  be  open to it to set it  aside  as  a  colourableexercise of the power.It  is on these principles therefore that we have  to  judgethe action taken by the Bank in this case.  In the statementof  claim put in by the workmen there was no  allegation  ofvictimisation  or unfair labour practice.  An affidavit	 wasfiled  by the respondent later before the tribunal in  whichit  was said that the Bank had acted mala fide	in  removinghim from service.  But in this affidavit nothing was said asto how the management of the Bank as distinct from the ChiefCashier	 had  any  reason  to  act  mala  fide	against	 therespondent.  The tribunal also has not recorded any  findingthat  the action of the Bank in terminating the	 service  ofthe  respondent was mala fide or amounted to  unfair  labourpractice  or  was  a  case  of	victimisation.	 It  orderedreinstatement  on  the	ground that this was  a	 case  wheredisciplinary action must and should have been taken and thatwas  not  done.	 In one part of the award the  tribunal	 hasremarked  that	if it is found that the Bank has  merely  incolourable  exercise  of  the power  made  the	order  underparagraph  522(1) of the Bank Award, the order would not  besustainable.  But there is no finding that the action  takenin  this case was a colourable exercise of the	power  underparagraph  522(1).  It is, however, urged on behalf  of	 therespondent that even though there is no such finding by	 thetribunal a perusal of the entire award seems449to show that this was what the tribunal thought inasmuch  asit  has	 said  that this was a case  in	 which	disciplinaryaction must and should have been taken.	 However, as we readthe  award  of the tribunal, the impression that we  get  isthat  its view was that where there is an  allegation  whichmay amount to misconduct against an employee of a bank,	 theprocedure  under paragraph 521 must always be  followed	 andthat  the  procedure  under paragraph 522(1)  can  never  befollowed;  and	that is why the tribunal did  not  give	 anyfinding	 that  the  action  of the  Bank  was  a  colourableexercise  of  the  power under	paragraph  522(1).   But  aslearned counsel for the respondents has urged before us thatthe action in this case is in any case a colourable exerciseof the power under paragraph 522(1) we propose to look	intothis aspect of the matter ourselves.It  is	true that there was some kind of allegation  by	 theChief  Cashier which may amount to misconduct in  this	caseand if we were satisfied that the termination of service  ofthe respondent was due to that misconduct and that the	formof  the order was merely a cloak to avoid holding  a  properenquiry under paragraph 521, no doubt there would have	beenno  case  for interference with the order of  the  tribunal.But this is a peculiar case depending upon a peculiar systemprevalent  in the cash department of the Bank.	That  systemis  that  the Chief Cashier gives security  for	 the  entireworking	 of  the  cash	department  and	 is  unconditionallyresponsible  for  any loss that might be occasioned  to	 theBank   in  that	 department.   The  appointments   in	thatdepartment  are	 made  on the recommendation  of  the  ChiefCashier and he gives a guarantee about each employee and  isunconditionally	 responsible  to the Bank for  any  shortagewhich  might occur.  It is in these circumstances  that	 theBank was faced with the report of the Chief Cashier by whichfor the reason given by him he withdrew the guarantee so faras  the respondent was concerned.  The security of the	cashdepartment  was thus involved and if the Bank decided as  itseems  to have done in this case that it would not  go	intothe  squabble between the Chief Cashier and  the  respondentand would use paragraph 522(1) of the450Bank  Award  to terminate the service of the  respondent  itcannot be said that the Bank was exercising its power  underparagraph  522(1)  in  a colourable  manner.   It  may	havehonestly  come to the conclusion that in this situation,  asit was not possible for it to change its system in the	cashdepartment, there was no option for it but to dispense	withthe service of the respondent under paragraph 522(1) of	 theBank  Award without going into the rights and wrongs of	 thedispute	 between the Chief Cashier and the  respondent.	  Inthe  peculiar circumstances therefore obtaining in the	cashdepartment of the Bank it cannot in our opinion be said thatthe  use of the power under paragraph 522(1) by the Bank  inthe  present case was a colourable exercise of	that  power.Nor  do	 we think that the failure of the  Bank	 to  providealternative employment for the respondent would lead to	 anysuch inference,, for the Bank may very well be right when itsays  that it is a specialised institution  and	 consideringthat  the respondent has been working in one department	 forthe  last  twenty  years he was not fit to  be	absorbed  inanother	 department.   In  the circumstances  of  this	casetherefore  we are not prepared to hold that the	 terminationof  the service of the respondent was a colourable  exerciseof the power under paragraph 522(1) of the Bank Award.	 Themention	 of the fact that the service was  being  terminatedbecause the Chief Cashier had withdrawn the guarantee of therespondent  in the notice of. discharge will not change	 thenature	of  the	 termination,  for  the	 reason	 was   givenobviously  to  avoid  the charge that  the  termination	 wasentirely  capricious  or arbitrary, and therefore  not	bonafide.We therefore allow the appeal and set aside the order of thetribunal   by  which  the  respondent  was  ordered  to	  bereinstated with full back wages and other benefits.  In	 thecircumstances we pass no order as to costs.Appeal allowed.451