PETITIONER:THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI G. CHAWLA AND DR.	POHUMALDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/12/1958BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  544		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 904 CITATOR INFO : F	    1960 SC 424	 (11) R	    1970 SC 999	 (5)ACT:Legislative  Competence-Validity  of  enactment-Control	  ofSound  Amplifiers -Pith and substance  of  legislation-Ajmer(Sound	Amplifiers Control) Act, 1952 (Ajmer 3 of 1953),  s.3-Government  of Part C States Act, 1951 (49  of  1951),  S.21-Constitution of India, Sch.	VII, List 1, Entry 31,	List11, Entries 1, 6.HEADNOTE:The Ajmer (Sound Amplifiers Control) Act, 1952, was  enactedby  the	 Ajmer Legislative Assembly which, by S. 21  Of	 theGovernment of Part C States Act, 1951, was empowered to makelaws for the whole or any part of the State with respect  toany  of the matters enumerated in the State List or  in	 theConcurrent List.  The respondents were prosecuted under S. 3Of  the	 Act  for breach of the	 conditions  of	 the  permitgranted	 for  the use of sound amplifiers.  On	a  referenceunder  s.  432	of  the Code  of  Criminal'  Procedure,	 thejudicial Commissioner of Ajmer held that the Act fell withinEntry NO. 31 of the Union List and not within Entry No. 6 ofthe State List as was claimed by the State, and,  therefore,was ultra vires the State Legislature.Held,  that the pith and substance of the impugned  Act	 wasthe  control  of the use of amplifiers in the  interests  ofhealth	 and  also  tranquillity  and  thus  the   Act	 wassubstantially within the powers conferred by Entry No. 6 andconceivably  Entry No 1 of the State List, and did not	fallwithin	Entry  No.  31 of the Union List,  even	 though	 theamplifier, the use of which is regulated and controlled,  isan    apparatus	  for	broadcasting	or    communication.Accordingly, the Act was intra vires the State Legislature.905JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.  1  of1955.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated October 13,  1954,of  the	 former	 Judicial Commissioner's  Court,  Ajmer,  inCriminal Reference No. 31 of 1954.H. J. Umrigar and T. M. Sen, for the appellant.The respondents did not appear.1958.  December 16.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyHIDAYATULLAH,  J.-This appeal was preferred by the State  ofAjmer,	but after reorganisation the b of States, the  Stateof  Rajasthan stands substituted for the former	 State.	  Itwas filed against the decision of the Judicial	Commissionerof  Ajmer, who certified the case as fit for appeal to	thisCourt under Art. 132 of the Constitution.The  Ajmer  Legislative Assembly enacted  the  Ajmer  (SoundAmplifiers   Control)	Act,  1952  (Ajmer   3	 of   1953),(hereinafter  called the Act) which received the  assent  ofthe  President on March 9, 1953.  This Act was	successfullyimpugned  by  the respondents before  the  learned  JudicialCommissioner,  who held that it was in excess of the  powersconferred  on  the  State Legislature under  s.	 21  of	 theGovernment  of	Part C States Act, 1951 (49  of	 1951)	and,therefore, ultra vires the State Legislature.The  respondents  (who	were absent  at	 the  hearing)	wereprosecuted under S. 3 of the Act for breach of the first twoconditions of the permit granted to the first respondent, touse  sound  amplifiers	on  May	 15  and  16,  1954.   Theseamplifiers, it was alleged against them, were so tuned as tobe audible beyond 30 yards (condition No. 1) and were placedat  a height of more than 6 feet from the ground  (conditionNo.  2).   The	second respondent was at  the  time  of	 thebreach, operating the sound amplifiers for the Sammelan, forwhich permission was obtained.On  a  reference  under	 s. 432	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure, the Judicial Commissioner of Ajmer held that	 thepith and substance of the Act fell within114906Entry No. 31 of the Union List and not within Entry No. 6 ofthe State List, as was claimed by the State.Under Art. 246(4) of the Constitution, Parliament had  powerto  make  laws for any Part of the territory  of  India	 notincluded   in	Part  A	 or  B	of   the   First   Schedule,notwithstanding that such matter was a matter enumerated  inthe  State  List.  Section 21 of the Government	 of  Part  CStates Act, 1951, enacted:" (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the LegislativeAssembly of a State, may undertake laws for the whole or anypart  of  the  State  with respect to  any  of	the  mattersenumerated in the State List or in the Concurrent List,(2)  Nothing  in  subsection ( 1) shall	 derogate  from	 thepower  conferred on Parliament by the Constitution  to	makelaws  with  respect to any matter for a State  or  any	partthereof."Under  these provisions, the legislative competence  of	 theState  Legislature was confined to the two Lists other	thanthe Union List.	 If, therefore, the subjectmatter of the Actfalls  substantially within an Entry in the Union List,	 theAct  must  be  declared to be unconstitutional,	 but  it  isotherwise,  if it falls substantially within the  other	 twolists, since prima facie there is no question of  repugnancyto a central statute or of an " occupied field".The  rival Entries considered by the  Judicial	Commissionerread as follows:Entry No. 31 of	      Post and Telegraphs; Telephones, wire-the Union List.	      less,broadcasting and other like forms	       of communication.Entry No. 6 of	      Public health and sanitation; hospita-the State List.	      ls and dispensaries.The  attention	 of the learned	 Judicial  Commissioner	 wasapparently not drawn to Entry No. 1 of the State List, whichis to the following effect:Entry No. 1 of	      Public order(but not including the usethe State List.	      of naval,military or air forces of the	       Union in aid of civil power.)907Shri H. J. Umrigar relied upon the last Entry either  alone,or  in combination with Entry No. 6 of the State, List,	 andwe are of opinion that he was entitled to do so.After  the  dictum of Lord Selborne in Queen v.	 Burah	(1),oft-quoted and applied, it must be held as settled that	 thelegislatures  in  our  Country	possess	 plenary  powers  oflegislation.   This  is	 so  even  after  the  division	  oflegislative  powers, subject to this that the  supremacy  ofthe  legislatures  is confined to the  topics  mentioned  asEntries in the Lists conferring respectively powers on them.These Entries, it has been ruled on many an occasion, thoughmeant to be mutually exclusive are sometimes not really	 so.They occasionally overlap, and are to be regarded as  enume-ratio  simplex	of broad categories.  Where  in	 an  organicinstrument  such enumerated powers of legislation exist	 andthere is a conflict between rival Lists, it is necessary  toexamine the impugned legislation in its pith and  substance,and  only  if that pith and  substance	falls  substantiallywithin an Entry or Entries conferring legislative power,  isthe  legislation valid, a slight transgression upon a  rivalList, notwithstanding.	This was laid down by Gwyer, C.	 J.,in  Subramanyam Chettiar v. Muthuswamy Goundan (2),  in	 thefollowing words:"  It  must  inevitably	 happen	 from  time  to	 time	thatlegislation, though purporting to deal with a subject in onelist,  touches	also on a subject in another list,  and	 thedifferent  provisions  of the enactment may  be	 so  closelyintertwined  that  blind  adherence  to	 a  strictly  verbalinterpretation	would result in a large number	of  statutesbeing declared invalid because the legislature enacting themmay appear to have legislated in a forbidden sphere.   Hencethe  rule which has been evolved by the	 Judicial  Committeewhereby	 the impugned statute is examined to  ascertain	 its'pith  and substance', or its 'true nature  and	 character',for  the  purpose of determining whether it  is	 legislationwith respect to matters in this list or in that."This  dictum  was  expressly approved  and  applied  by	 theJudicial Committee in Prafulla Kumar Mukherjee(1) (1878) 3 App.  Cas. 889.(2) [1940] F.C.R. 188, 201.908v.Bank of Commerce, Ltd., Khulna (1), and the same view	 hasbeen expressed by this Court on more than one occasion.	  Itis  equally  well-settled that the power to legislate  on  atopic of legislation carries with it the power to  legislateon  an ancillary matter which can be said to  be  reasonablyincluded in the power given.It becomes, therefore, necessary to examine closely how	 theAct  is	 constructed and what it provides.  The Act  in	 itspreamble expresses the intent as the control of the use'  ofsound  amplifiers.  The first section deals with the  title,the  extent, the commencement and the interpretation of	 theAct.   It does not unfold its pith and substance.  The	lasttwo  sections  provide for penalty for unauthorised  use  ofsound amplifiers and the power of police officers to  arrestwithout	  ",arrant.    They   stand   or   fall	  with	 theconstitutionality or otherwise of the second section,  whichcontains the essence of the legislation.That section prohibits the use in any place, whether  publicor  otherwise,	of any sound amplifier except at  times	 andplaces and subject to such conditions as may be allowed,  byorder in writing either generally or in any case or class ofcases  by  a  police  officer  not  below  the	rank  of  aninspector,  but it excludes the use in a place other than  apublic place, of a sound amplifier which is a component partof a wireless apparatus duly licensed under any law for	 thetime  being  in force.	In the explanation which  is  added,'public	 place'	 is defined as a place	(including  a  road,street	or way, whether a thoroughfare or not or  a  landingplace)	to  which the public are granted access	 or  have  aright to resort or over which they have a right to pass.The gist of the prohibition is the use' of an external soundamplifier  not	a component part of  a	wireless  apparatus,whether in a public place or otherwise, without the sanctionin  writing of the designated authority and in disregard  ofthe  conditions	 imposed on the use thereof.   It  does	 notprohibit  the use in a place other than a public place of  asound  amplifier  which is a component part  of	 a  wirelessapparatus.(1)  (1947) L.R. 74 I.A. 23.909There  can  be	little doubt that the  growing	nuisance  ofblaring loud-speakers powered by amplifiers of great  outputneeded	control,  and  the short question  is  whether	thissalutary  measure can be said to fall within one or more  ofthe  Entries  in the State List.  It must be  admitted	thatamplifiers  are	 instruments  of broadcasting  and  even  ofcommunication,	and  in that view of the matter,  they	fallwithin Entry 31 of the Union List.  The manufacture, or	 thelicensing of amplifiers or the control of their ownership orpossession,  including the regulating of the trade  in	suchapparatus  is  one matter, but the control of the  'use'  ofsuch  apparatus though legitimately owned and possessed,  tothe detriment of tranquillity, health and comfort of  othersis quite another.  It cannot be said that public health doesnot demand control of the use of such apparatus by day or bynight,	or  in	the vicinity of	 hospitals  or	schools,  oroffices	 or habited localities.	 The power to  legislate  inrelation to public health includes the power to regulate theuse of amplifiers as producers of loud noises when the rightof  such  user,	 by  the disregard of  the  comfort  of	 andobligation  to	others, emerges as a  manifest	nuisance  tothem.  Nor is it any valid argument to say that the pith andsubstance  of  the Act falls within Entry 31  of  the  UnionList,  because other loud noises, the result of	 some  otherinstruments,   etc.,   are  not	  equally   controlled	 andprohibited.The pith and substance of the impugned Act is the control ofthe  use of amplifiers in the interests of health  and	alsotranquillity,  and thus falls substantially (if not  wholly)within	the  powers  conferred	to  preserve,  regulate	 andpromote	 them and does not so fall within the Entry  in	 theUnion  List, even though the amplifier, the use of which  isregulated and controlled is an apparatus for broadcasting orcommunication.	As Latham, C. J., pointed out in Bank of NewSouth Wales v. The Commonwealth (1):" A power to make laws 'with respect to' a subjectmatter  isa power to make laws which in reality and substance are lawsupon the subject-matter.  It is not(1)  (1948) 76 C.L.R. 1, 186.910enough	that  a law should refer to  the  subject-matter  orapply  to  the subject-matter: for example,  incometax	lawsapply  to clergymen and to hotel-keepers as members  of	 thepublic;	 but  no  one would describe an	 income-tax  law  asbeing,	for that reason, a law with respect to clergymen  orhotel-keepers.	 Building  regulations	apply  to  buildingserected	 for  or by banks; but such  regulations  could	 notproperly  be  described	 as laws with respect  to  banks  orbanking."On a view of the Act as a whole, we think that the substanceof  the legislation is within the powers conferred by  EntryNo. 6 and conceivably Entry No. 1 of the State List" and  itdoes  not -purport to encroach upon the field of  Entry	 No.31,  though it incidentally touches upon a  matter  providedthere.	The end and purpose of the legislation furnishes thekey  to connect it with the State List.	 Our  attention	 wasnot  drawn to any enactment under Entry No. 31 of the  UnionList by which the ownership and possession of amplifiers wasburdened  with	any such regulation or	control,  and  therebeing  thus  no	 question of repugnancy or  of	an  occupiedfield,	we  have no hesitation in holding that	the  Act  isfully  covered by the first cited Entry and conceivably	 theother in the State List.The  Judicial Commissioner's order, with respect, cannot  beupheld,	 and it must be set aside.  We allow the appeal	 andreverse	 the  decision, and we declare the Act	in  all	 itsparts  to  be  intra vires the State  Legislature.   As	 thematter	is four years old we do not order a retrial  and  werecord that the State does not, as a result of the  reversalof  the	 decision  under appeal, propose  to  prosecute	 therespondents,  and that a statement to this effect  was	madebefore us at the hearing.Appeal allowed.911