PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE PATIALA CEMENT CO.	LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/05/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  692		  1957 SCR 1161ACT:Income Tax-Patiala State Income-tax Law-Income-tax Officer'sOrders-Appealability-Assessment	 years 1948-49 and  1949-50-Applicability  of  Indian Income-tax Act to Part  B  States-Patiala Income-tax Act, 2001 (VIII Of 2001), S. 18(3A)	(7)-Finance	 Act,  1950 (XXV Of 1950), s.  13-Indian  Income-taxAct, 1922 (XI Of 1922), S. 2(14A).HEADNOTE:The  respondent	 was a company incorporated  in	 the  formerPatiala State with its registered office in the territory ofPepsu, a Part B State.	For the assessment years 1948-49 and1949-50	 in respect of the amounts of income-tax and  super-tax  which it failed to deduct from out of the	remunerationpaid  to  its managing agents, the Income-tax  Officer	tookaction under the provisions of s. 18 of the Patiala  Income-tax Act.  The Act did not provide for an appeal against	 theorders of the Income-tax Officer under that section and	 thequestion  for determination was whether an appeal lay  underthe provisions of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, which wasextended  to  all Part B States with effect  from  April  1,1950,  by s. 13 of the Finance Act, 1950, and S.  2(14A)  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act, 1922:Held, that the result of the extension of the Indian Income-tax  Act,  1922,  to Part B States was	that  that  Act	 wasapplicable  to the assessment years 1950-51  and  subsequentyears and that for the assessment years 1948-49 and  1949-50the   law  applicable  was  the	 Patiala   Income-tax	Act.Accordingly,  an appeal against the order of the  Income-taxOfficer in question was not competent.The  Union of India v. Madan Gopal Kabra, (1954) S.C.R.	 541and  D.	 R.  Madhavakyishnaiah v. The  Income  Tax  Officer,(1954) S.C.R. 537, followed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 118 of 1955.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated May 26,  1954,  ofthe P.E.P.S.U. High Court in Misc.  Case No. 31 of 1953.G. N. Joshi and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.The respondent did not appear.1957.  May 17.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by1491162KAPUR  J.-This is an appeal under certificate of  the  PepsuHigh  Court  and the question for decision  relates  to	 theapplicability  of  the Indian Incometax Act,  1922,  to	 theerstwhile Pepsu area in the years of assessment 1948-49	 and1949-50.The  assessee  company	(the  respondent  before  us),	 wasincorporated  in  the Patiala State and had  its  registeredoffice	at  Surajpur in Pepsu.	For the year  of  assessment1948-49	 the  company  failed  to deduct  from	out  of	 theremuneration  paid  to its managing agents,  who  were	non-residents, the income-tax and the supertax which, it,  underthe  law, was required to do.  It also paid to its  auditorsauditing  fees	and  from out of this sum also	it  did	 notdeduct the income-tax and super-tax under the provisions  ofthe Patiala Incometax Act.  The two sums in dispute were Rs.59,787-1-0 and Rs. 581, 40 respectively.  For the assessmentyear  1949-50 also the assessee company failed to  make	 thededuction from the remuneration paid to its managing  agentsand the income-tax deductible was Rs. 52,484-14-0 and super-tax  Rs.  21,611-6-0.  The Income-tax  Officer	took  actionagainst	 the assessee company under ss. 18(3A) and 18(7)  ofthe  Patiala  Income-tax  Act and  consequently	 issued	 twodemand	notices	 for the amounts above	mentioned.   Againstthis  order of the Income-tax Officer the  assessee  companytook  an appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner	 whoreduced the amount demanded but did not decide the  questionwhether	  the  assessee	 company  was  bound  to  make	 thedeductions  or not.  The assessee company then	appealed  tothe Income-tax Appellate Tribunal and it held that under  s.18(7) of the Patiala Incometax Act no order was required  tobe  passed by the Income-tax Officer and that no appeal	 layto  the Appellate Assistant Commissioner against  the  orderunder  s. 18(3A) as there was no provision for it under	 thePatiala	  Income-tax  Act.   Before  the  Tribunal  it	 wascontended that at the time when the appeals were decided  bythe Appellate Assistant Commissioner, the Patiala Income-taxAct had ceased to be in force and therefore the appeals weresustainable  under the provisions of the  Indian  Income-taxAct which had been1163extended to all Part B States by s. 13 of the Indian FinanceAct  of 1950 (XXV of 1950) but this contention was  repelledand the Tribunal held that the only remedy for the  assesseecompany	 was to take a revision under s. 33 of	the  PatialaIncome-tax  Act	 to the Commissioner.  The Tribunal  at	 therequest of the assessee company referred the following threequestions for the opinion of the High Court:(1)Whether  the	 appeals  before  the  Appellate   AssistantCommissioner  fell  to	be decided in  accordance  with	 theprovisions  of	the  Patiala Income-tax Act  or	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act ?(2)Whether the appeals before the Appellate Tribunal fell tobe decided in accordance with the provisions of the  PatialaIncome-tax Act or the Indian ]Income-tax Act ?(3)Whether, on the assumption that the assessee company	 wasnot  bound to deduct tax, its appeals before  the  AppellateAssistant Commissioner were competent in law ?The High Court decided that in regard to the assessment year1948-49,  the law applicable was the Patiala Income-tax	 Actand  therefore	no  appeal Jay to  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  but in regard to the assessment  year  1949-50the Indian law became applicable and therefore the order  ofthe  Income-tax	 Officer was appealable.  The  Revenue	havecome up in appeal under a certificate of the High Court	 andthe  submission is that to the assessment year 1949-50	alsothe  Patiala  Income-tax  Act applied  and  not	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act	 and therefore the order  of  the  IncometaxOfficer was not appealable.In  order to resolve the controversy, reference may be	madeto  certain provisions of the Indian Income-tax	 Act,  1922,and the Finance Act of 1950.  Section 13 of the Finance	 Actprovides:S.   13 " If immediately before the Ist day of April,  1950,there  is in force in any Part B State other than Jammu	 andKashmir or in Manipura, Tripura or Vindya Pradesh or in	 themerged	territory of Cooch Behar any law relating to  incometax  or	 super tax or tax on profits of business,  that	 lawshall cease to have effect except1164for  the purpose of the levy, assessment and  collection  ofincome-tax  and	 super	tax in respect	of  any	 period	 notincluded in the previous year for the purpose of  assessmentunder  the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, for the year  endingon the 31st day of March, 1951, or. for any subsequent	yearor,  as the case maybe, the levy, assessment and  collectionof tax on profits of business for any chargeable  accounting-period ending on or before the 31st day of March, 1949 ; "Section 13 of the Finance Act of 1950 shows that the  IndianIncome-tax Act became applicable to the assessees  residing,in any Part B State as from the assessment years 1950-51  orthe accounting year 1949-50.The  provisions of s. 2(14A) of the Indian  Income-tax	Act,1922,  show that the Act became applicable to Part B  Statesas  from  April 1, 1950.  The relevant	provisions  of	thissection are:S.2(14A)      "	    taxable	territories	"      means(d)  as	 respects  any period after the 31st day  of  March,1950, and before the 13th day of April, 1950, the  territoryof  India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir  and	 thePatiala and East Punjab States Union.Provided that the " taxable territories " shall be deemed toinclude-(b)  the whole of the territory of India excluding the Stateof Jammu and Kashmir-(i).......................................(ii) as	 respects  any period after the 31st day  of  March,1950,for any of the purposes of this Act and(iii)	  as  respects any period included in  the  previousyear  for the purpose of making any assessment of  the	yearending on the 31st day of March, 1951, or for any subsequentyear;It  will  be  noticed that the language used  in  s.  2(14A)proviso (b) (iii) is the same as the language under s. 13 ofthe Finance Act of 1950.  The effect of the Finance.  Act of1950 is that as regards assessment for the year ending March31, 1951, the Indian Income-tax Act1165would  be applicable-accounting year being the	year  endingMarch 31, 1950, and for any assessment year previous to thatthe Patiala Income-tax Act would be applicable.	 The  effectof  s.	2(14A)	proviso (b) (ii) &  (iii)  is  that  taxableterritories would comprise the whole of India excluding	 theState  of Jammu and Kashmir as respects any period  includedin the previous year for the purpose of making an assessmentfor the year ending March 31, 1951, i.e., for the assessmentyear 1950-51 or the accounting year 1949-50.The application of the Indian Income-tax Act as a result  ofs. 13 of the Finance Act of 1950 was decided in The Union ofIndia  V.  Madan  Gopal	 Kabra (1) which  was  a  case	fromRajasthan where there was no income-tax in the previous yearbut  the  assessee was sought to be assessed  for  the	year1950-51 under the Indian Income-tax Act.  It was held  'thatunder sub-cl. (1) of cl. (b) of the proviso to s. 2(14A) thewhole of the territory of India including Rajasthan would bedeemed " taxable territory " for the purpose of s. 4A of theIndian Income-tax Act " as respects any period " meaning anyperiod before or after March-31, 1950, and the assessee	 wastherefore'  liable to income-tax.  Patanjali  Sastri,  C.J.,who delivered the judgment of the court said:" A close reading of that provision will show that it  savesthe operation of the State law only in respect of 1948-49 or- any earlier period which is the period not included in theprevious  year (1949-50) for the purposes of assessment	 forthe year 1950-51.  In other words, there remained no  State-law  of income-tax in operation, in any Part B State in	 theyear  1949-50." This passage from the judgment supports	 thecontention  of the appellant that as regards income  of	 theaccounting year 1949-50 or the year of assessment 1950-51 noState  law of income-tax was operative in any Part B  State.It appears that the error which has crept in the judgment ofthe  High Court has been due to misreading the year  1949-50as  being  assessment  year and	 not  accounting  year.	  Inanother	 case  D. B. Madhavakri shnaiah v.  The	 Income	 TaxOfficer (1)(1) [1954] S.C.R. 541, 552. (2) [1954] S.C.R. 537.1501166s.   13	  of   the  Finance  Act  of  1950   was   similarlyinterpreted.  Therefore both for the assessment years  1948-49  and	 1949-50  the law applicable would  be	the  PatialaIncome-tax  law	 and  not  the	Indian	Income-tax  Act	 andconsequently no appeal against the order of the'  Income-taxOfficer was competent.The  answers to the questions would be as  follows:QuestionsNos. 1 & 2: The Patiala Income-tax Act was in operation	 andno appeals lay.	 Question No. 3 In the negative.The  appeal is, therefore, allowed but as the  respondent  Icompany	 has  not appeared and contested the  appeal,  therewill be no order as to costs, in this court.			       Appeal allowed.			  APPENDIXReference to the memory of Shri N. Chandrasekhara Aiyar, Ex-Judge  of  the	Supreme Court of India, by  the	 Judges	 andmembers of the Bar of the Supreme Court of India,  assembledat a meeting on April 1, 1957.Shri  S.  R.  DAS, Chief  Justice  of  India.-Mr.  SolicitorGeneral, it is with a heavy heart that I mention to you	 andthe  members  of  the  Bar  the	 passing  away	of  NagapudiChandrasekhara	Aiyar, who was an esteemed colleague  and  avery dear friend.  The melancholy news reached me  yesterdayevening.Nagapudi Chandrasekhara Aiyar was born on January 25,  1888.He was educated at Conjeevaram, Tirupati and Madras and	 wasa  student  of	the Christian College  and  the	 Madras	 LawCollege.   During his college days he was a keen  sportsman,interested  chiefly in Cricket.	 This interest in  sport  hekept  up  even after he became a District  Judge.   After  abrilliant academic career, he was enrolled as a vakil of theMadras High Court in 1910.  He worked in the chambers of Dr.C. P. Ramaswami Aiyar whom he used to refer to as his masterand  for  whom	he had very high regard.  He  picked  up  anextensive  practice on the Original Side of the Madras	HighCourt.	 In July 1927 he became the City Civil Judge and  inDecember of the same year he was appointed as a District andSessions  Judge.   He was raised to  the  Madras-High  CourtBench in July 1941 and worked there as a Judge until January25,  1948.   The  State utilised his  mature  experience  indifferent spheres.  He was appointed as a member of the	 AllIndia  Industrial  Tribunal (Bank Disputes).  He  was  laterappointed as a member of the Indo-Pakistan Boundary DisputesTribunal.   Shortly thereafter he was appointed a  Judge  ofthis  Court  and  was  sworn  in  on  September	 23,   1950.Immediately after his retirement from this Court on  January24, 1953, he was chosen as the Chairman of the	DelimitationCommission.   Towards the end of his term in this  Court  hefell ill very1511168seriously.   He	 responded  to	medical	 treatment  and	 thedevoted	 nursing of his good wife brought him  round.	Thatillness, however, had undermined his otherwise robust healthand  had  left	him weak.  But	undaunted  by  his  physicalailments and in a true spirit of service he moved about fromplace to place all over India and successfully completed thework  of  the Commission.  Just at that time  Chief  JusticeMukherjea fell ill and on his advice Nagapudi ChandrasekharaAiyar was called upon by the President to assist this  Courtas an ad hoe Judge.  This burden he cheerfully accepted	 andefficiently discharged to the satisfaction of all concerned.Even  after this he had to undertake, as  Chairman,  furtherwork of delimitation consequent upon the re-organisation  ofthe States.Nagapudi  Chandrasekhara Aiyar was well grounded  in  legal-principles.   To his legal acumen he added his deep  insightinto human nature and psychology and a robust common  sense.On  all intricate legal problems presented before the  Courthe   brought  to  bear	a  mental  freshness,  which   oftencontributed  to their solution.	 The judgments	written	 anddelivered  by him, which will be found reported in  the	 LawReports, will bear testimony to his legal learning and humansympathies.  In his behaviour towards the members of the Barhe was always kind and considerate.  Towards his  colleagueshe was systematically courteous.Nagapudi  Chandrasekhara  Aiyar's interest in life  was	 notconfined to law or within the cloistered compound of a courtof law.	 While he was a sound lawyer and a learned Judge, hewas  also a man of great erudition in Sanskrit	and  Englishliterature.   He  was, on the one hand, the  editor  of	 thelatest	edition of Mayne's Hindu Law, he was, on  the  otherhand,  the author of " Anjaneya " which he had dedicated  tohis  master and of Valmiki Ramayana.  For those of  us,	 whocame into close contact with him, his ready quotations	fromour  ancient scriptures and literary works of our  classicalpoets  were  indeed  a	matter	of  joy.   The	 Convocationaddresses delivered by him were thoughtful and incisive,1169Nagapudi  Chandrasekhara Aiyar above all was a warm  heartedman, a man of genial temperament and a very friendly person.His  bubbling  cheerfulness and refreshing  sense  of  humorinevitably dispelled dullness and he had the kindly knack ofputting	   everybody   at   ease.    He	  was	 a    livelyconversationalist, full of sparkling humor, and cheerful bonhomie.	 Those of us, who had the privilege of coming  closeto him, will always miss the glow and the warmth of his kindfriendliness.The  passing away of an erstwhile esteemed colleague  and  afriend	certainly brings to one's mind a sense of  loss	 andsadness.   We  remember with  gratitude	 the  consideration,courtesy and kindness that we always received from him.	  Werequest you to convey to his companion in life our sense  ofadmiration for the constant care and devoted attention whichshe daily bestowed on him and our heartfelt sympathy for herin her dark and dismal day of sorrow.  We pray with her	 forthe peace of his soul.Shri  C. K. DAPHTARY, Solicitor- General of India.-My  Lord,the news of the passing away of Shri Chandra. sekhara  Aiyarhas  come to most of us as an unexpected shock.	  After	 hismiraculous  and seemingly complete recovery from  illness  afew years ago, it was hoped that he would be spared for manyyears to come, to continue his distinguished services to theState.	 When  he came to the Supreme Court  Bench,  he	 hadbehind	him a record of work in the High Court and in  otherfields	of public life and had won that admiration which  isthe  just  due of one who reaches the highest  rung  of	 thejudicial  hierarchy.  When he left he had won  also  respectand  confidence	 by his forthright and robust  dealing	withproblems uncluttered by oversubtlety.  He won too, affectionby his hearty good-fellowship and kindliness which  embracedall  alike, senior, junior and beginner.  By his death,	 thelaw  has lost a notable personality and the state a  citizenof outstanding quality, who laboured in its service, and haddeath  not snatched him away would have continued to  rendervaluable service.1170One  behalf of the Bar and myself, I associate	myself	withthe   expression   of  regret  and  the	 tribute   to	ShriChandrasekhara Aiyar's memory which your Lordship the  ChiefJustice has so feelingly expressed.Reference  to  the memory of late Justice' Shri	 P.  GovindaMenon, Judge of the Supreme Court of India by the Judges andmembers of the Bar of the Supreme Court of India,  assembledat a meeting on October 17, 1957.Shri  S.  R.  DAS, Chief Justice  of  India.-Mr.  AdditionalSolicitor  General  and Mr. Vice-President  of	the  SupremeCourt  Bar  Association, we have met here  again  under	 theshadow of death.  All of you must have read in the papers ofthe  sudden demise of Mr. Justice P. Govinda Menon.  When  Iwas  with him yesterday afternoon, I never thought that	 hisend was so near.P.   Govinda Menon was born in September 1896.	He  receivedhis  early  education  in Ganpat High School,  then  in	 theZamorin's  College,  Kozhikode, and then in  the  PresidencyCollege	 and the Law College in Madras.	 He was enrolled  asan Advocate in September 1920 and joined the Madras Bar	 andpractised  before the High Court.  In December 1940  he	 wasappointed Crown Prosecutor.  He proceeded to Japan in  April1946  as the Indian representative before the  InternationalMilitary  Tribunal for the Far East at Tokyo.  He  acted  asthe  Chief Indian Prosecutor from April to  September  1946.He'  was elevated to the Bench of the Madras High  Court  in1947  and  was	there just over nine  years  before  he	 waselevated to this Court in August 1956.As  a practitioner at the Bar, as Crown Prosecutor and as  aJudge  P.  Govinda Menon acquitted himself  with  remarkablesuccess.   His suavity of manners and his sweet and  amiabledisposition  endeared him to the members of the Bar  and  tothe Judges.  He had a wide circle of friends both at the Barand outside the Bar.  As a Judge of the Madras High Court hepresided over almost all the divisions of the Court and	 hadto deal with various typos of cases, civil and1171criminal.  His work as Crown Prosecutor brought him valuableexperience  and insight into human nature and helped him  toacquire	 a firm grasp of the principles of criminal law	 andjurisprudence.	While upholding the dignity and the  majestyof  the	 law, he had the capacity and courage  of  temperingjustice	 with mercy.  He did not permit mere  technicalitiesor  senseless formalities to stand in the way of  dispensingjustice.  He also heard and disposed of heavy civil  appealsand revisions.	He had a deep knowledge of Hindu Law and  inparticular, the Marumakattayam and Aliyasantana branches  ofit.   Indeed, the chapters on those subjects in	 the  latestedition	 of Mayne's Hindu Law were written by him.   He	 wasgenerally  helpful  to	the  members  of  the  Bar  and	  inparticular,  to the junior section of it, who  always  wouldappear before him and make their submissions without fear ornervousness.   He  was	a man of studious  habits  and	tookinterest in literary and cultural subjects.When  he came to this Court, he brought with him his  maturejudicial  experience and learning and his sense	 of  justiceand  fairplay.	 My colleagues and I, who sat  with  him  inCourt, had his assistance and advice in dealing with matterscoming	up  for	 decision  before  us.	 'He  was  uniformlycourteous  lo  the  members of the Bar as  well	 as  to	 hiscolleagues  on	the Bench.  He was a  conscientious  worker,which  is  exemplified	by the fact that  although  he	feltdefinitely  out of sorts for about a week before his  death,he  did not take rest lest the work in Court should be	dis-located	 and  his  colleagues and the  members	of  the	 Barengaged	 in the part-heard cases should	 be  inconvenienced.Although  I assured him that all arrangements had been	madefor  carrying on the Court work, he kept on worrying for  hedid not feel at ease in his mind.  It was certainly a strainwhich, I am afraid, told upon his health.  My colleagues and1,  therefore, mourn the passing away of a sound  lawyer,  agood  Judge, a loyal friend and a conscientious	 worker'  Weshall  be grateful if you will convey through his  son,	 whofortunately was at his bedside at the time of his1172death,	our  sincerest	condolences to the  members  of	 thebereaved family.Shri H. N. SANYAL, Additional Solicitor-General of India.-MyLords,	the Indian Bar most respectfully  associates  itselfwith  what  has	 fallen from Your  Lordship.   It  expressesprofound  sympathy  for	 the members of the  family  of	 Mr.Justice Menon.	It expresses its deepest sorrow and grief atthe  sudden death of Mr. Justice Menon.	 In 1920, he  becamean Advocate of the Bar at Madras and within a short time  hebecame	one  of	 its  leading  members.	  In  1940,  he	 wasappointed   Crown  Prosecutor  in  Madras.   His   name	  isremembered and will always be remembered that he acted	withutmost	fairness in conducting cases.  In 1946, he  went  toTokyo  on behalf of India.  There he discharged	 his  dutieswith great ability.  He became a Judge in 1947 and within  ashort time he made himself very popular and won the  respectand  admiration of the profession.  Thereafter he came	hereas a Judge of the Supreme Court.  He had been here only	 fora short time but in this short time he had made a tremendousimpression on the members of the Indian Bar by his unfailingcourtesy  and his keen desire of doing justice.	  My  Lords,Mr. Justice Menon was equipped with all the qualities  whichare essential for the discharge of the great judicial dutiesof  the	 highest  Tribunal in India.  In  these	 days,	whencriticisms  are so often made I feel it is my duty to  pointout  that  here was a Judge who died in	 harness  and  neverspared himself in spite of illness for one day and up to thelast  moment  when it was physically impossible for  him  todischarge  the heavy duties of his office, he  attended	 theCourt  and gave his very best for the sacred cause, that  isto  say,  the administration of justice.  On behalf  of	 theIndian Bar, I am offering our condolence and heart-felt sym-pathy  to the members of his family, to his friends  and  toeveryone near and dear to him.Shri  N.  C. CHATTERJEE, Vice-President, Supreme  Court	 BarAssociation.-My	 Lords,	 on  behalf of the  members  of	 theSupreme	 Court Bar Association, it is my duty to  voice	 thesentiments and feelings of the1173members	 of the Supreme Court Bar on this  solemn  occasion.The  unexpected and sudden demise of a great and good  Judgeis a great loss to this Court.	It' is also a great loss  tothe State and to the Nation.  The Country has been  deprivedby the cruel hand of death of the services of an eminent andupright	 Judge, who maintained a very high reputation  as  aJudge of one of the most important High Courts of India	 andalso a Judge of this august Tribunal.As  members  of	 the  legal  profession	 we  look  upon	  anindependent Judiciary as a symbol of sovereignty.  If  thereis  one	 bulwark  that guards the  freedom  of	the  averagecitizen,  it is the Courts of Justice.	We are pledged to  astrict adherence of the Rule of Law and in these days,	whenthe  work of the Judiciary is not properly  appreciated,  itgives  us some comfort to remember that there are  men	likeMr. Justice Govinda Menon in India who sacrificed his healthand  life and fell a victim to the sacred cause of  Law	 andJustice.Those of us who had the privilege of enjoying his friendshipshould remember with gratitude that he was much greater as aman.   Unostentatious,	gentle and kind hearted he  won	 theaffection of all who came into contact with him.  I am happyto   bear   testimony	to  his	  kindness,   sympathy	 andconsideration  for myself and for many of my  colleagues  ofthe Bar.A  few	years back when I had the privilege  of	 associatingmyself	with  an important Bar function in  South  India,  Idiscovered  that Mr. Justice Menon's courtesy, sweet  temperand amiable disposition had endeared himself not only to hiscolleagues on the Bench but also to the members of the	Bar.I am happy to say that he maintained the same reputation  asa Judge. of this Court.The  Law  Reports of Madras bear eloquent testimony  to	 hiserudition,  his	 clear mind and his keen sense	of  justice.Those  of us, who had the privilege to appear in his  Court,would  bear  testimony to his grasp of	principles  and	 thequiet  and courteous attention he has bestowed on the  casesargued before him.  His1174judgments  were	 not mere collections of precedents  but  hedealt  with  principles	 with clarity  and  precision.	 Thehighest	 tribute that I would like to pay to his memory	 to-day  is	 that the juniormost member of the  Bar	 never	feltuneasy for a single moment before him.On  behalf  of the Supreme Court Bar we	 offer	our  sincerecondolences to the members of the bereaved family.  We mournhis death and we pay our homage and tribute of	appreciationand  affection	to the memory of this great Judge  and	thisgreat gentleman.       May his soul rest in peace.