PETITIONER:THE EAST AND WEST STEAMSHIP COMPANY,GEORGE TOWN, MADRAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:S.   K. RAMALINGAM CHETTIAR.(And connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/05/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1058 CITATOR INFO : R	    1972 SC1405	 (57) RF	    1972 SC1935	 (11)ACT:Carrier of goods by sea-Loss or damage, meaning of-Liabilityof carrier-Delivery of goods-Time for-The Indian Carriage ofGoods Act, 1925 (XXVI Of 1925), Schedule, Art III, Para.  6,cl. 3.HEADNOTE:The  appellant in the first case (C.  A. No. 88/56) and	 therespondents in the other two cases (C.	As.  Nos. 91 & 92 of1958) were shipping companies carrying goods by sea from oneport to another.  They carried goods of the opposite partiesby  ships  to  their places of	destination  but  failed  todeliver	 the  whole of the goods consigned.   In  the  suitsbrought by the owners of the goods for compensation the mainquestion related to the interpretation of the 3rd clause  ofpara. 6 of Art.	 III in the Schedule to the Indian  Carriageof Goods by Sea Act, 1925 (XXVI Of 1925) which runs thus:-" In any event the carrier and the ship shall be  dischargedfrom all liability in respect of loss or damage unless	suitis  brought within one year after the delivery of the  goodsor the date when the goods should have been delivered ".In  the	 first	case the Madras	 High  Court  expressed	 theopinion	 that  the  above clause did  not  provide  for	 theextinction  of the consignor's right to	 claim	compensationbut  merely prescribed a rule of limitation.  It  also	heldthat the term in the bill of lading requiring that the claimfor  compensation should be made within one month  from	 thedate  of  arrival of the vessel was repugnant to Rule  8  toArt.   III  of the Schedule and was void.  The	Bombay	HighCourt held that Art. 111(6) dealt with all cases of loss  ordamage	whether	 the  loss  or	damage	was  caused  by	 thedeterioration  of  the goods or by  their  non-delivery	 andfurther	 that the words " the loss or damage " included	 anyloss  or  damage caused to the consignee in respect  of	 hisclaim  for compensation from the shipping company.  If	alsoheld  that the goods should have been delivered as  soon  asthey were landed.  On appeal by special leave:Held, that the word " loss " in cl. 3, para. 6 of Art.	 IIIin  the schedule to the Indian Carriage of Goods Act,  1925,meant and included any loss caused to a shipper or consigneeby  reason  of the inability of the ship or the	 carrier  todeliver part or whole of the goods, to whatever reason	suchfailure might be due.Spens and another v. The Union Mayine Insurance Co. Ltd.,  3Common Pleas 427, distinguished,821Sandeman  & Sons v. Tyzack and Branfoot Steamship Co.  Ltd.,[1913] A. C. 680, referred to.The words "discharged from liability" were intended to	meanand did mean that the liability had totally disappeared	 andnot  only  that	 the remedy as	regards	 the  liability	 haddisappeared.The  date when the goods should have been delivered for	 thepurpose	 Of cl. 3, para. 6 of Art.  III of the Act  was	 thedate when the ship by which the goods were carried left	 theport of delivery.The  stipulation in the bill of lading requiring  claim	 forcompensation  being made within one month from the  date  ofarrival of the ship was null and void.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 88 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedFebruary  11,  1954,  of  the Madras  High  Court  in  CivilRevision  Petition  No.	 921 of 1952,  arising	out  of	 thejudgment and decree dated November 2, 1951, of the Court  ofSmall  Causes, Madras, in Suit No. 4076 of 1950 (N.   T.  A.No. 113 of 1951).			   With	   Civil Appeals Nos. 91 and 92 of 1958.Appeals by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedMarch  10,  1955, of the Bombay High Court in  Appeals	Nos.66/X  and  67/X	 of 1954, arising out of  the  judgment	 anddecree	dated February 15, 1954, of the said High  Court  inSuits Nos. 1693 of 1949 and 105 of 1950, respectively.B.   Sen, S. N. Mukherjee and B. N. Ghosh, for the appellant(in C. A. No. 88 of 1956).C.   B. Pattabhiraman and Ganapathy Iyer, for respondent (inC. A. No. 88 of 1956).C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, S. N.  Andley,J. B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellants	 (InC. As.	Nos. 91 and 92 of 1958).G.   Gopalakrishnan,  for  the	respondent  (In	 C.  A.	 No.91/58).A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri and G. Gopalakrishnan,  for	 therespondent (In C. A. No. 92 of 58).1960.  May 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by107822 DAS  GUPTA, J.-These three appeals-Civil Appeal No.  88  of1956, Civil Appeal No. 91 of 1958 and Civil Appeal No. 92 of1958,  of which one is from a decision of the High Court  ofMadras and the other two from decisions of the High Court ofBombay raise some common questions of general importance  tocarriers of goods by sea and of shippers as regards the	 3rdclause	of paragraph 6 of Art.	III in the Schedule  of	 theCarriage  of Goods by Sea Act (hereinafter called " the	 Act").   This clause provides that " in any event	the  carrierand  the shipper shall be discharged from all  liability  inrespect	 of loss or damage unless a suit is  brought  withinone  year after the delivery of the goods or the  date	whenthe  goods  should have been delivered ". In all  the  threeappeals	 before us the carriers' main defence to  claims  ofcompensation  by the owners of the goods was based  on	thisclause	and the courts had to consider whether this  defencewas available to the carrier.The  appeal from the Madras High Court was in respect  of  aconsignment  of	 90  bundles of	 brass	circles	 which	wereconsigned to the respondent at Madras from Bombay to  Madrasper  S. S. Fakira, a Steamer belonging to the East and	WestSteamship Co. The Ship arrived in Madras on August 1,  1948,and  78 out of the 90 bundles were delivered on	 August	 25,1948,  to  the	appellant through his  clearing	 agent,	 thesecond	respondent.   Five more bundles	 were  delivered  onSeptember  25, 1948.  After some correspondence between	 theShipping  Company  and the first  respondent  regarding	 theseven	bundles	  not,	delivered  the	 appellant   companyrepudiated finally the respondent's claim on March 24, 1950.The  first respondent brought the present suit on  June	 27,1950,  claiming Rs. 1,023-5-0 as  compensation-Rs.  974-13-0for the value of the undelivered goods and Rs. 48-8-0 as theprofit	of which he had been deprived.	The claim  for	thisamount of profit was given up at the Trial.  The appellant'sdefence was: (1) that the suit having been filed beyond	 theperiod	prescribed in cl. 6 of Art. 3 of the Act;  (2)	thatthe  suit was also barred as no claim had been	made  withinthe period of one month from the date of823arrival	 of the vessel as stipulated in the bill  of  ladingand  (3)  that	the goods  were	 insufficiently	 packed	 andtherefore carrier was not liable for the alleged loss.	 Thelearned	 Judge of the Small Causes Court who tried the	suitas  also  the  Judge who heard the matter  on  a  new  trialapplication  held  that	 the  plaintiff's  right  to   claimcompensation was extinguished before the date of the suit.As  regards the second defence based on the  stipulation  inthe  bill of lading that notice has to be given	 within	 onemonth  the  Trial Court held that this term in the  bill  oflading	was void and of no effect.  The learned	 Judges	 whoheard  the  new trial application disagreed  with  this	 andaccepted the defence on this point also.  In the result theydismissed the new trial application and confirmed the  orderof dismissal made by the learned Trial Judge.  Against	thisorder  the High Court of Madras was moved by the  plaintiffsunder  s. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	The  learnedJudge  held that the term in the bill of lading	 as  regardsone  month's notice was repugnant to Rule 8 to Art.  III  ofthe  Schedule  to  the Act and was void.   He  was  also  ofopinion that the date of the final repudiation of  liabilityby  the	 Shipping Company as regards the short	delivery  ornon-delivery  is the date " when the goods should have	beendelivered " within the meaning of the 3rd clause of the	 6thparagraph  of Art.  III and so whether this clause  providedfor  extinction	 of  a right or only prescribed	 a  rule  oflimitation,  the  defence based on this clause	of  the	 Actcould  not succeed.  He expressed his own opinion,  however,that this clause did not provide for extinction of the rightbut merely prescribed a rule of limitation.  In view of	 hisconclusions  he set aside the decision of the  lower  courtsand  remanded  the suit for further disposal  to  the  trialcourt.	After remand the trial court on May 4, 1954, decreedthe suit for a sum of Rs. 974-13-0.  Against that decree  nosteps were taken by the Shipping Company.  It was after thatdate that the Shipping Company applied for and obtained fromthis Court special leave to appeal on October 11, 1954.	  Ithas  to be noticed that as the decree made in the  suit	 hasbecome final and unassailable, this appeal is really of824academic  interest.   In view however of the fact  that	 themain question of law raised, viz., as regards the scope	 andinterpretation of the 3rd Clause of para. 6 of Art.  III  ofthe  Schedule  to the Act is being raised before us  in	 theother  two appeals from the Bombay High Court also  we	haveheard the counsel for both sides in this appeal in full.Of  the two appeals from Bombay-the one Civil Appeal No.  92of  1958 is in respect of some consignments at Bombay by  S.S. Tweedsmuir Park, S. S. Finnamore Hill and S. S.  Ismalia-all  vessels belonging to the first defendant,	the  BritishIndia Steam Navigation Company Ltd.  S. S. Tweedsmuir and S.S. Finnamore Hill arrived in the port of Bombay on or  aboutSeptember 10, 1948, and steamer Ismalia arrived in Bombay onSeptember  6,1948.   The vessels  discharged  their  cargoesalongside  on to the docks belonging to the Trustees of	 thePort  of Bombay.  The plaintiffs took delivery of the  goodspacked in bags which bore their distinctive and	 identifyingmarks, but were unable to obtain delivery of 164 bags out ofthe  consignment  sent	by  Ismalia, 869  bags	out  of	 theconsignment  sent  by Finnamore and 1,657 bags	out  of	 theconsignment  sent by Tweedsmuir Park.  The suit was  broughton a claim of Rs. 1,10,323-8-0 as compensation for the	bagsnot delivered.	The Trustees of the Port of Bombay were alsomade  defendants.  We are no longer concerned with  them  asafter the suit was dismissed by the Trial Judge against boththe  defendants	 the plaintiffs did not	 prefer	 any  appealagainst the order of dismissal as against the Trustees.The  main  defence  of the  first  defendant,  the  ShippingCompany,  was  that  the company  was  discharged  from	 allliability  in respect of the loss or damage alleged  in	 theplaint	by reason of the provisions of the Act	inasmuch  asthe suit had not been brought within one year of the date  "when the goods should have been delivered".  Another defencewas  that the company was not liable as no notice  within  3days after discharge and before goods were removed from	 thequay or ship's side or place of discharge had been given andso  in view of Clause 20 of the bill of lading	the  companywas free from all liability.  The trial judge held that825in  view  of  the fact that S.S.  Finnamore  Hill  completeddischarging her cargo on 19th September, 1948, S.S.  Ismaliacompleted discharging her cargo on 25th September, 1948, andS.S. Tweedsmuir Park completed discharging her cargo on 27thSeptember,  1948, the suit was clearly not brought "  withinone  year " from the date " when the goods should have	beendelivered".   He  held therefore that  the  defendants	weredischarged from all liability by reason of the provisions ofthe Act.  Accordingly he dismissed the suit.  In appeal fromthis  order of dismissal the plaintiffs contended that	Art.III  (6) did not deal with cases of loss or  damage  arisingfrom  non-delivery  of	goods; in  the	alternative  it	 wascontended  that	 the expression " loss or damage "  in	Art.III  (6) must be limited to the loss or damage to the  goodsthemselves  and if the goods have not been lost this  clausehad  no application.  The learned judges of the	 High  Courtrejected both these contentions.  They were of opinion	thatArt.  III (6) deals with all cases of loss or damage whetherthe  loss  or damage is caused by the deterioration  of	 thegoods  or  is caused by the non-delivery of  the  goods	 andfurther	 that " the loss or damage" as used was used by	 theLegislature to include any loss or damage caused to  shipperor consignee in respect of which he claims compensation fromthe shipping company.  The learned judges also held that  sofar  as the shipping company was concerned the	delivery  ofgoods is given or ought to be given as soon as the goods arelanded	and therefore in this case the goods with regard  tothe  three ships having been cleared on September 19,  1948,September  25, 1948, and September 27,	1948,  respectively.These were the dates on which the goods "  should  have beendelivered  " for the purposes of the application of the	 3rdclause	of paragraph 6 of Art.	Ill.   Accordingly  agreeingwith  the  Trial Judge that the liability  of  the  shippingcompany	 was  discharged and the suit was  not	maintainablethey dismissed the appeal.The  other  appeal from the Bombay High Court,	viz.,  CivilAppeal	No.  91 of 1958 is in respect of  a  consignment  of6,000  bags of coconut from Cochin and 4,733 bags  of  copraand coconuts from Badagara826consigned  to the plaintiffs for carriage to Bombay  by	 thesteamer " Bharatjal " belonging to the appellant, the BharatLines Ltd.  The steamer arrived in Bombay Port some time  inthe  middle  of	 September, 1948.   The	 plaintiffs  howeverfailed	to  obtain delivery of 596 bags	 from  the  Badagaraconsignment and 470 bags from the Cochin consignment.	Theybrought	 the suit on December 5, 1949, against the  shippingcompany,  the  Bharat  Lines  Ltd.,  and  also	against	 theTrustees of the Port of Bombay on a claim of Rs. 1,05,726-1-6  on  which Rs. 45,725-7-5 appear to have been	 claimed  ascompensation  in respect of the bags not delivered  and	 theremainder  as  compensation for damage to the goods  in	 thebags  of  which	 delivery  was	taken.	 We  are  no  longerconcerned  with	 the second defendant, the Trustees  of	 thePort of Bombay, as after the suit was dismissed by the TrialCourt the plaintiffs did not pursue the claim against them.The  main  defence  of the  first  defendant,  the  shippingcompany,  was  that the suit was barred " by reason  of	 theIndian	Carriage  of Goods by Sea Act ". It was	 also  urgedthat the suit was not maintainable as under the terms of thebill  of lading the plaintiffs were bound to notify  to	 thedefendants  their  claim in writing about the  alleged	non-delivery  within one month from the date of the	 arrival  ofthe  vessel  which  the plaintiffs had	failed	to  do.	  Itappears to have been conceded before the Trial Judge in	 theBombay	High Court that the suit had not been  filed  withinone  year  after the delivery of the goods or  the  date  onwhich the goods should have been delivered.  The plaintiffs'counsel	 also  appears to have conceded that cl. 6  of	Art.III  applied to the case.  The learned Judge therefore	heldthat  the  first  defendant had	 been  discharged  from	 allliability  in respect of the loss or damage alleged  in	 theplaint	and dismissed the suit.	 It appears however that  inthe appeal from this order of dismissal the plaintiffs urgedthat Art.  III (6) of the Act did not apply to the facts  ofthe  case and also the date on which the goods	should	havebeen  delivered should be construed to mean the date "	whenthe loss was finally ascertained " and the shipping  companywas in a position to finally declare that they were or	werenot827in  a  position	 to  deliver  the  goods  in  question.	  Indismissing  the appeal the learned judges of the High  Courtwho  heard the appeal did not give any separate reasons	 butstated	that  the  appeal was being dismissed  on  the	sameground as given in their judgment in Appeal No. 66 of  1954.This is the judgment from which Civil Appeal No. 92 of	1958of this Court has been preferred.From what has been said above it is clear as we have alreadyindicated  that	 the main questions in this  appeal  are  asregards the interpretation of the 3rd Clause of paragraph  6of Art.	 III in the Schedule to the Act.The  first and the most important of these questions  is  asregards the meaning of the word " loss " as used in the saidclause.	 Does it mean only such loss as occurs when one says"  the	goods have been lost" or does it include  also	suchloss as is sustained by the owners of the goods-whether	 theshipper	 or the consignee-when the carrier fails to  deliverthe whole or part of the cargo shipped ? The second questionthat  arises for consideration is whether this	clause	onlyprescribes  a  rule of limitation or also provides  for	 theextinction  of	the right to compensation  after  a  certainperiod	of  time.  The next question is as  regards  the  ascertainment  of the date on which the goods not delivered  "should	have  been  delivered " for the	 purposes  of'	thisclause.	   Apart  from	these  questions  as   regards	 theinterpretation of the 3rd clause of paragraph 6 of Art. 111,it   will  be  necessary  to  consider	also   whether	 therequirement in the bill of lading as regards the time withinwhich  the  notice of claim must be made in order  that	 thecarrier may be responsible is void as being against the	 8thparagraph of Art.  III.As  has	 been mentioned in the preamable to the Act  it	 waspassed	 to  give  effect  to  the  recommendation  of	 theInternational  Conference  of Maritime Law  at	Brussels  inOctober,  1922.	 The circumstances which led to the  holdingof   the   conference	and   were   responsible   for	 therecommendations	 have  been stated by  Scrutton	 on  CharterParties, 15th Edition, at p. 439, in these words:-828 In  recent  years, as the terms of bills of  lading  becamemore  diverse, the need for standardisation became more	 andmore insistent and an increasing demand was made on the partof   importers	 and  exporters	 for   the   imposition	  bylegislation, on the lines of the American Harter Act or	 theAustralian Sea Carriage of Goods Act, 1904, or the  CanadianWater  Carriage	 of  Goods Act,	 1910,	of  certain  minimumliabilities on sea-carriers who issued bills of lading."	      x		    x		  xThe  movement in favour of legislation finally	resulted  inthe  decision of the delegates at the Diplomatic  Conferenceon  Maritime  Law  held at Brussels  in	 October,  1922,  torecommend  to their respective Governments the	adoption  ofthe  Hague  Rules with slight modifications as	a  basis  oflegislation."It is this recommendation which has been referred to in	 thepreamble to the Indian Act.  It is important to mention thatapart  from  our  own country,	U.  K.,	 Australia,  Canada,Ceylon, Newfoundland, New Zealand as well as Belgium, Franceand U. S. A. have given statutory effect wholly or partiallyto  the	 Hague Rules.  This international character  of	 theprovisions  of	law as incorporated in the articles  to	 theschedule  to the Act makes it incumbent upon us to pay	morethan usual attention to the normal grammatical sense of	 thewords  and  to guard ourselves against being  influenced  bysimilar words in other acts of our Legislature.it  is	helpful to remember in this connection	the  cautionuttered	 by  Lord Atkin in State Line Ltd.  v.	Foscold	 (1)about  the importance of giving words in these	rules  theirplain  meaning,	 and not to colour one's  interpretation  byconsidering  whether  a meaning otherwise  plain  should  beavoided	 if it alters the previous law.	 After stating	thatthis  caution  would  be  well founded	if  the	 Act  merelypurported to codify the law, he went on to observe:-"  But if this is the canon of construction in regard  to  acodifying  Act, still more does it apply to an Act like	 thepresent which is not intended(1)  [1932] A.C. 328.829to  codify the English law, but is the result (as  expressedin the Act) of an international conference intended to unifycertain	 rules	relating  to bills of lading.	It  will  beremembered  that  the  Act  only  applies  to  contracts  ofcarriage of goods outwards from ports of the United Kingdom;and  the  rules	 will often have to be	interpreted  in	 thecourts	of  the	 foreign consignees.   For  the	 purpose  ofuniformity it is therefore important that the courts  shouldapply themselves to the consideration only of the words usedwithout any predilection for the former law...".The  House  of Lords was in that case  interpreting  certainprovisions  of	the English Carriage of Goods  by  Sea	Act,1924.  Our own Act applies to contracts of carriage of goodsoutwards from the ports of India.  Section 2 states that therules set out in the Schedule shall have effect in  relationto  and in connection with the carriage of goods by  sea  inships  carrying	 goods from any port in India to  any  otherport  whether  in or outside India.  Though in	the  appealsbefore	us we are concerned with only contracts of  carriageof goods from one Indian port to another Indian port, it  isnecessary to remember that these rules will often have to beinterpreted  in the courts of the foreign consignees.	Thatis  an	additional reason why we should be  careful  not  toattach	to  the	 words	used in the rules  set	out  in	 theSchedule to the Act anything more or less than their  normalmeaning consistent with the context in which they appear andconsistent with the scheme of the legislation.Art.   III  of	the Schedule with  which  we  are  speciallyconcerned  in  the  present case  purports  to	mention	 theresponsibilities and liabilities of the carriers.  The firstparagraph lays down the responsibilities and liabilities  ofthe  carrier  in  the  matter  of  making  ships  seaworthy,properly  manning,  equipping  and supplying  the  ship	 andmaking	the holds and the different parts of the ship  wheregoods are carried fit and safe for their reception, carriageand  preservation.   The  second  paragraph  places  on	 thecarrier	  the  duty  of	 properly  and	carefully   loading,handling,   stowing,  carrying,	 keeping,  caring  for	 anddischarging  the  goods,  subject  to  Art.   IV.   The	 3rdparagraph provides for the issue of a bill of lading830to  the shipper of the goods showing among other things	 theidentifying  marks, the number of packages or pieces or	 thequantity or weight as also the apparent order and  conditionof the goods.  Paragraph 4 provides that the bill of  ladingshall  be  the prima facie evidence of the  receipt  by	 thecarrier	 of  the  goods	 as  described	in  accordance	withparagraph  3. The fifth paragraph provides that the  shippershall  be  deemed  to have guaranteed  to  the	carrier	 theaccuracy as regards the details of marks, number,  'quantityand  weight as furnished by him.  It provides  further	thatthe  shipper shall indemnify the carrier against  all  loss,damages	  and  expenses	 arising  or  resulting	 from	suchinaccuracies.  Then comes paragraph 6, the whole of which itis proper to set out :-Unless	notice of loss or damage and the general  nature  ofsuch  loss or damage be given in writing to the	 carrier  orhis agent at the port of discharge before or at the time  ofthe  removal  of the goods into the custody  of	 the  personentitled to delivery thereof under the contract of carriage,or if the loss or damage be not apparent, within three days,such  removal shall be prima facie evidence of the  deliveryby  the	 carrier of the goods as described in  the  bill  oflading.	 ""  The notice in writing need not be given if the  state  ofthe goods has at the time of their receipt been the  subjectof joint survey or inspection.	"" In any event the carrier and the ship shall be  dischargedfrom all liability in respect of loss or damage unless	suitis  brought within one year after the delivery of the  goodsor the date when the goods should have been delivered.	""  In the case of any actual or apprehended loss or  damage.the  carrier  and the receiver shall  give  all	 reason-ablefacilities  to	each other for inspecting and  tallying	 thegoods.The  seventh paragraph contains provisions as regards  issueof a shipped bill of lading.The eighth paragraph is in these words:-"  Any	clause,	 covenant  or agreement	 in  a	contract  ofcarriage  relieving the carrier or the ship  from  liabilityfor loss or damage to or in connection with831goods  arising	from  negligence, fault or  failure  in	 theduties and obligations provided in this article or lesseningsuch  liability otherwise than as provided in  these  Rules,shall be null and void and of no effect.A benefit of insurance or similar clause shall be deemed  tobe a clause relieving the, carrier from liability."It  has	 to  be noticed that before  providing	in  the	 6thparagraph an immunity to the carrier from " all liability inrespect	 of  loss or damage " in certain  circumstances	 theLegislature  had  in  the earlier  paragraphs  laid  on	 thecarrier	 the  duty of making the ships	seaworthy,  properlymanning,  equipping and supplying the ship, and	 making	 theholds  and all other parts of the ship fit and safe for	 thereception, carriage and preservation of the goods;  properlyand carefully loading, handling, stowing, carrying,  keepingand  caring  for  and  discharging  the	 goods	carried	 andprovided that ordinarily the bill of lading should show	 thequantity or weight of the goods or the number of packages orpieces.	  "  Loss or damage " which paragraph  6  speaks  ofshould	therefore reasonably be taken to have  reference  tosuch  loss or damage which may result from the	carrier	 notperforming  some  or  all  of  the  duties  which  had	beenmentioned earlier.  One of those duties is to discharge	 thegoods  carried in accordance with the quantity or weight  orthe number of packages or pieces as mentioned in the bill oflading.	  The  shipper and the consignee of goods  are	moreconcerned  with	 the duty of the carrier  to  discharge	 thegoods  in  proper  order  and condition	 and  in  full	thananything else.	Indeed the other duties cast on the carriersso far as the owners of the goods are concerned, are  reallyincidental to this duty of discharging the goods in full andin  good  order and condition.	When in the context  of	 theprevious paragraphs of Art.  III the 6th paragraph seeks  toprovide	 an immunity to the carrier "from all  liability  inrespect	 of  loss or damage " after a certain  time,  it  isreasonable  to think that it is loss or damage to the  ownerof the goods, be he shipper or the consignee, which is	alsomeant, in addition to the " loss of the goods ". When832the goods themselves are lost, e.g., by being jettisoned, orby  being  destroyed  by fire or by  theft,  there  will  befailure to discharge the goods in full and loss to the ownerof the goods will occur.  Even where the goods are not	lostthe  carrier may fail to discharge the goods in full or	 notin proper order and there also loss will occur to the  ownerof  the	 goods.	 In such a case, even though there  may	 nothave  been " loss of the goods " the goods are lost  to	 theowner.	 The word " loss " as used in paragraph 6 is in	 ouropinion	 intended to mean and include every kind of loss  tothe  owner  of	the goods-whether it is	 the  whole  of	 theconsignment   which  is	 not  delivered	 or  part   of	 theconsignment  which  is not delivered and whether  such	non-delivery  of  the whole or part is due to  the	goods  beingtotally	 lost  or merely lost to the owner by such  fact  ofnondelivery  there  is	in our	opinion	 "loss"	 within	 themeaning of the word as used in paragraph 6.It is worth noting in this connection that while paragraph 5makes it clear that loss there means loss to the carrier andparagraph  6  speaks of loss or damage to or  in  connectionwith the goods, the Legislature has in the 6th paragraph  ofthis  Article left the words "loss or  damage"	unqualified.The object of the rule however being to give immunity to thecarriers  and the shippers from claims of compensation	madeby  the owners of the goods in respect of loss sustained  bythem,  it will be unreasonable to read the word " loss "  inthat  paragraph as restricted to only loss  of the goods  ".When the object of this particular paragraph and the settingof  this  paragraph  in	 the  Article  after  the   previousparagraphs are considered there remains no doubt  whatsoeverthat the learned judges of the Bombay High Court were  rightin  their  conclusion  that  the  loss	or  damage  in	thisparagraph  is a wide expression used by the  Legislature  toinclude any loss or damage caused to shipper or consignee inrespect	 of  which he makes a grievance and in	respect	 ,ofwhich he claims compensation from the shipping company.The  argument that loss due to failure to deliver the  goodsis  not covered by this clause is merely to be mentioned  todeserve rejection.  The very use of the833words  "  the  date  on which the  goods  should  have	beendelivered" clearly contemplates a case where the goods	havenot been delivered.  The clause gives the owner of the goodsone year's time to bring the suit the year to be  calculatedfrom  the date of the delivery of the goods where the  goodshave been delivered and from the date when the goods  shouldhave been delivered where all or some of the goods have	 notbeen  delivered.  The fact that the first clause of the	 6thparagraph speaks of removal of the goods may be an  argumentfor  thinking as the Bombay High Court thought	that  clausehas no application when goods are not delivered.  It may  bementioned  that some authorities (See Carver's	Carriage  ofGoods by Sea, 10th Edition, p. 191) have suggested that	 thefirst  clause  of  this paragraph  appears  to	have  littlemeaning.   That	 is  a	matter which  need  not	 engage	 ourattention.   It is sufficient to mention that the fact	thatthe  rule  of evidence provided in the first clause  of	 theparagraph  may have no application to cases of	non-deliveryis  wholly irrelevant in deciding whether the  third  clauseapplies	 to cases of non-delivery.  As we have already	saidthe   date  when  the  goods  should  have  been   deliverednecessarily  contemplates  a  case  where  loss	 has  arisenbecause goods have not been delivered.Reliance was sought to be placed on behalf of the appellantsin  the	 two  Bombay appeals on Spens v.  The  Union  MarineInsurance Co. Ltd. (1).	 What had happened in that case	 wasthat  cotton  belonging to different owners was	 shipped  inbales  specifically marked, including 43 bales belonging  tothe  plaintiffs.  In the course of the voyage the  ship	 waswrecked; all the cotton was more or less damaged, some of itwas lost, some was so damaged that it had to be sold  beforereaching  the port and marks on a very large number  of	 thebales  were  so obliterated by sea water that  none  of	 thecotton that was lost or sold and only a portion of what	 wascarried to the port could be identified as belonging to	 anyparticular  consignment.   The plaintiffs  had	insured	 thegoods  with the defendant company against the  usual  risks.The question(1)  (1868) L.R. 3 C.P. 427.834arose  whether	there  was a total loss of a  part  of	eachowner's	 cotton	 or whether there was a total  loss  of	 theplaintiffs'  consignment.  The court held that it could	 notbe  said  that	there  was  an	actual	total  loss  of	 theplaintiffs'  consignment  nor a constructive total  loss  ofthese, that the principle of proportion applied in cases  ofgeneral	 average  or jettison where it is  not	known  whosegoods are sacrificed should be properly applied to cases  ofthis nature where because of the bales of different shippersbeing  undistinguishable by reason of the action of the	 seaand  without the fault of the respective owners	 it  becomesimpossible  to	ascertain to whom the  goods  actually	lostbelonged.This  case it has to be noticed had to consider in  view  ofthe special terms of an insurance policy, whether there	 wasa total or partial loss for the purposes of claims under thepolicy	and the argument that there was a total loss  withinthe meaning of the policy because it was impossible for	 theship-owner to deliver the plaintiffs' own bales of cotton tothem  was  rejected.  This case is of no assistance  in	 theinterpretation	of the word " loss " in the Articles of	 theSchedule.In cases of such mixture of cargo of different owners it waspointed out by Lord Moulton in Sandeman & Sons v. Tyzack andBranfoot  Steamship  Co.  Ltd. (1) which was  cited  by	 thelearned Solicitor-General himself :"  It  may well be that they could assert  the	position  ofjoint  owners  in the mixed cargo, and as such	take  actionagainst	 any  person who sought to get possession of  it  orconvert it to his own use.  But it does not follow that	 theship-owners would have performed their contract of carriage.Their  duty  is to deliver the goods entrusted to  them	 forcarriage, and they do not perform that duty if all that	 theconsignee obtains is a right to claim as tenant in common  amixture	 of those goods with the goods of other people.	  Nodoubt,	if such a right is of some value, and the  consigneeavails himself of it, the shipowners are entitled to  creditfor  whatever  value  the  goods  possessed  if	 they	weredelivered(1)  [1913] A.C. 680, 697.835mixed up with some extraneous substance which lessened theirvalue  or  compelled  the  consignee to	 go  to	 expense  inseparating it out."There is nothing however to justify the conclusion that	 theconsignee is bound to avail himself of the right to claim astenant	in common.  The breach of contract remains  and	 theclaim  for  compensation  for  such  breach  is	 in  no	 wayaffected.    Neither  authority	 nor   principle   thereforesupports  the  contention of the  learned  Solicitor-Generalthat  where  the  goods	 are  in  existence  but  cannot  bedelivered because they have been mixed up with the cargo  ofother  owners there has been no " loss " within the  meaningof the third clause of the 6th paragraph of Art.  III.On  the	 first	question, therefore, we	 have  come  to	 theconclusion  that the word "loss" in the third clause of	 the6th paragraph of Art.  III to the Act means and includes anyloss  caused  to a shipper or a consignee by reason  of	 theinability  of  the ship or the carrier to  deliver  part  orwhole  of the goods, to whatever reason such failure may  bedue.On  the next question whether this clause prescribes only  arule of limitation or provides for the extinction of a rightto  compensation, it will be observed that the Bombay  High-Court has not discussed it at all, apparently because on thefacts  of  the	case before it would  have  mattered  littlewhether the provision was one of limitation or of extinctionof right.  The question is however of some importance in thefacts  of the Madras Case.  For if the provision is  one  oflimitation  there  would be some scope for argument  in	 thefacts  of  that	 case  that  the  period  was  extended	  byacknowledgments	 of liability within the meaning of Art.  19of  the Limitation Act.	 The question we have to  decide  iswhether.  in saying that the ship or the carrier will  be  "discharged from liability ", only the remedy of the  shipperor  the	 consignee was being barred or the  right  was	alsobeing  terminated.   It	 is  useful  to	 remember  in	thisconnection  the international character of these  rules,  ashas been already emphasised above.  Rules of limitation	 arelikely	to  vary from country to  country.   Provisions	 forextension   of	periods	 prescribes  for  limitation   wouldsimilarly vary,.836We should be slow therefore to put on the word "  dischargedfrom  liability	 "  an interpretation  which  would  produceresults varying in different countries and thus keeping	 theposition  uncertain for both the shipper and the  shipowner.Quite apart from this consideration, however, we think	thatthe   ordinary	 grammatical  sense  of	  "discharged	fromliability"  does  not  connote " freed from  the  remedy  asregards	 liability  "  but  are more apt  to  mean  a  totalextinction of the liability following upon an extinction  ofthe  right.   We find it difficult to  draw  any  reasonabledistinction between the words "absolved from liability"	 and"  discharged from liability " and think that these words  "discharged  from  liability " were intended to mean  and  domean that the liability has totally disappeared and not onlythat  the remedy as regards the liability  has	disappeared.We are unable to agree with the learned Judge of the  MadrasHigh  Court  that these words merely mean that "  that	eventhough the right may inhere in the person who is entitled tothe  benefits, still the liability in the opposite party  isdischarged   by	 the  impossibility  of	 enforcement."	 Thedistinction  between  the  extinction of  a  right  and	 theextinction  of a remedy for the enforcement of	that  right,though fine, is of great importance.  The Legislature  couldnot  but have been conscious of this distinction when  usingthe  words " discharged from all liability " in	 an  articlepurporting  to	prescribe  rights  and	immunities  of	 theshipowners.   The words are apt to express an  intention  oftotal  extinction of the liability and should, specially  inview  of the international character of the legislation,  beconstrued in that sense.  It is hardly necessary to add thatonce the liability is extinguished under this clause,  thereis no scope of any acknowledgment of liability thereafter.This brings us to the question as to how the date " when thegoods  should  have been delivered " should  be	 calculated.References  were  made at the Bar to some  of  the  numerousdecisions  in the different courts in India as	regards	 theinterpretation	of somewhat similar words in Art. 31 of	 theLimitation   Act  in  respect  of  suits  for  recovery	  ofcompensation for837non-delivery.	Indeed the learned Judge in the Madras	HighCourt  himself has based his conclusion on this question  onthe view of law he had earlier expressed as regards Art.  31of the Limitation Act that the starting point of  limitationthere  is  the	final repudiation of the  liability  by	 thecompany.  With great respect to the learned Judge, we are ofopinion	 that the cases as regards the ascertainment of	 thedate  when  the goods " ought to be delivered " as  used  inArt.  31 of the Limitation Act are of no assistance for	 ourpresent	 purpose.  Most, if not all of the cases which	haveconsidered  the	 question of the ascertainment of  the	datewhen the goods " ought to be delivered " for the purpose  ofArt.  31 deal with cases of transport by Railways  where  nodate  has  been	 or can be specified  in  the  contract	 forcarriage.   We	cannot	however ignore	the  fact  that	 theconditions  of	carriage of goods by  ship  are	 essentiallydifferent from contracts of carriage of goods by Railways inone respect, viz., that whereas in contracts of carriage  ofgoods by Railways there is ordinarily no knowledge as to  bywhich  particular train the goods will be despatched nor  isthere  any  undertaking	 by the	 Railways  as  regards	suchtrains,	 there	is ordinarily in contracts  of	carriage  ofgoods by sea   distinct	 arrangement that the goods will  beshipped	  by a particular vessel.Whether the bill of  ladingin  the	 older form beginning with the words  "	 shipped  onboard  the........ or in the form more recently employed  bysome shipping companies, beginning with the words " Receivedfor  shipment by......... (See Scrutton on Charter  Parties,15th  Edition, p. 10) the name of the vessel  is  ordinarilyindicated  in  the bill of lading itself.  The duty  of	 thecarrier under the contract of carriage is to carry the goodsby  a  particular ship and then to deliver the same  on	 thearrival	 of the ship at the port.  The manner in  which	 thedelivery will take place will depend on the particular termsof  the	 bill  of lading and on the custom of  the  port  ofdestination.  But whether the delivery has to be made to theconsignee  at  the ship's side or is made on the  quay	sidethere  can  be little doubt that the carrier's	duty  is  tostart  the delivery of goods as soon as the ship arrives  atthe109838port of destination and to complete the delivery before	 theship leaves the port.  In a particular case the carrier	 maynot do his duty.  That cannot however alter the fact of	 theexistence  of his duty to complete the delivery between	 thearrival	 of  the ship at the port and the departure  of	 theship from the port.  If as regards any particular goods thisduty  remains unperformed at the time when the	ship  leavesthe port there can be no escape from the conclusion that thepoint  of time when the ship leaves the port is	 the  latestpoint of time by which the goods should have been delivered.On the records of both the Bombay appeals we find the  billsof lading for these carriages of contract.  Paragraph 10  ofthe  bill of lading in Civil Appeal No. 92 of 1948  containsthe terms as regards the discharge of cargo in these words:-"  10.	Discharge of goods: The goods may be  discharged  assoon  as the ship is ready to unload and as fast as  she  isable,  continuously  day and night.   Sundays  and  holidaysincluded, and if the consignee fails to take delivery of hisgoods  immediately the ship is ready to discharge  then	 thecompany shall be at liberty to land the said goods on to thewharf  or  quay or into warehouse, or discharge	 into  hulk,lazaretto  or  craft  or any other  suitable  place  withoutnotice and the goods may be stored.....................	 Thecompany	 shall have the option of making delivery  of  goodseither over the ship's side or from lighter or store ship ofhulk  or custom house or warehouse or dock or wharf or	quayat  consignee's risk.  In all cases the company's  liabilityis  to cease as soon as the goods are lifted from and  leavethe ship's desk".In the Civil Appeal No. 91 of 1958 the terms of delivery arein paragraph 15 and is in these words:" 15.  The company is to have the option of delivering thesegoods  or any part thereof, into receiving ship or board  orcraft or landing them at the risk and expense of the shipperor  consignee  as  per scale of charges to be  seen  at	 theAgents Offices........"In  these  appeals we are not concerned with  the  facts  ofthese terms of delivery of contract except that they839show  that it is clearly understood between the	 parties  tothe  contract  that  delivery  is to  commence	as  soon  aspossible  after	 the arrival of ship at port  and  completedbefore the ship leaves the port.  Indeed even if there	werenot  definite  terms in the bill of lading  as	regards	 thedelivery it would follow necessarily from the very nature ofthe carriage of goods by ship that the delivery of the cargocarried	 by the ship should be made between the date of	 thearrival	 at the port and its departure from the	 port.	 Forour  present purpose it is unnecessary to  consider  whetherdelivery to the dock authority in any of there cases was  orwould have been equivalent to the delivery to the consignee.That  would depend upon the custom of the port of  dischargeor  on statutory provisions or express stipulations  in	 thebill  of lading.  But whether the delivery is to be made  tothe  consignee or to anybody else on his behalf the duty  ofthe  ship's  master  is to start the  delivery	as  soon  aspossible  after	 the  ship's  arrival at  the  port  and  tocomplete  it  before the date of departure  from  the  port.Before	the  ship  has actually left, the  port	 it  is	 notpossible  to say that the time when delivery should be	madehas  expired.  Once however the vessel has left the port  itcannot	but  be common ground between the  carrier  and	 theconsignee that the time when delivery should have been	madeis over.  It is this point of time, viz., the time when	 theship  leaves the port, which in our opinion should be  takenas  the time when the delivery should have been	 made.	 Thefact  that after this point of time  correspondence  startedbetween the carrier and the consignee as regards the failureto  deliver  and  at  a later  point  of  time	the  carriercommunicates  his  inability to deliver cannot	affect	thisquestion.   Nor	 can the ultimate repudiation of  any  claimthat may be made by the shipper or the consignee affect	 theascertainment  of the date when the goods should  have	beendelivered.   The arrival at port of the vessel by which	 thegoods have been contracted to be carried being known and thedeparture being equally an ascertainable thing and the	dutyof  the carrier being necessarily to complete  the  deliverybefore	leaving	 the port, the date 'by which  the  deliveryshould have been made is840already	 a  fixed point of time	 and  later  correspondence,claims or repudiation thereof can in no way change it.We  have therefore come to the conclusion that	whatever  bethe  proper  mode of ascertaining the date when	 delivery  "ought  to  be  made" under Art. 31 of  the  Limitation	Act-whether	 that  be the reasonable time for  delivery  in	 thecircumstances	of   the  case	or  the	 date	when   aftercorrespondence	the  carrier  intimates	 its  inability	  todeliver or the date of the final repudiation of the claim ona claim for compensation having been made or in the case  ofpart delivery the date when the bulk of the consignment	 wasdelivered   the	 date  when  the  goods	 should	 have	beendelivered  for	the purpose of the third clause of  the	 6thparagraph of Art.  III of the Act is the date when the	shipby  which the goods were contracted to be carried  has	leftthe port at which delivery was to be made.Applying  the above clause to the facts of the cases  beforeus it is obvious that these suits for compensation were	 notmaintainable.  It is hardly necessary therefore to  considerthe additional defence raised in all the three suits by	 theshipping  companies, viz., that the claim  for	compensationnot  having  been made within thirty days from the  date  ofarrival	 of the vessel in accordance with the terms  of	 thebill  of  lading no compensation is  payable.	The  learnedJudges	of the Bombay High Court did not think it  necessaryto  consider this additional defence as they  accepted	,thedefence	 based on the third clause of the 6th para.graph  ofArt.  III which has been discussed above.  The learned Judgein  the	 Madras	 High Court had	 however  to  consider	thisadditional  defence in view of his conclusions	against	 theshipping  company  on the other defence.  He held  that	 thestipulation  in	 the  bill of lading that if  no  claim	 forcompensation  is  made within thirty days from the  date  ofarrival of the ship the shipping company will not be  liablefor  compensation is void as it offends against para.  8  ofArt.  111.   The relevant portion of this  paragraph  is  inthese words:-8.   Any  clause,  covenant or agreement in  a	contract  ofcarriage  relieving the carrier or the ship  from  liabilityfor loss or damage to or in connection841with goods arising from negligence, fault or failure in	 theduties and obligations provided in this article or lesseningsuch  liability otherwise than as provided in  these  Rules,shall be null and void and of no effect."It  cannot be seriously disputed that the stipulation  underconsideration does directly offend against the provisions ofthe  8th  paragraph.  For it seeks at least to "  lessen  ",otherwise  than	 provided in the rules in the  Schedule	 theliability of the ship or carrier for loss or damage to goodsor  in	connection  with  goods caused	by  the	 failure  todeliver.  This stipulation requiring claim for	compensationbeing made within one month from the date of arrival of	 theship is therefore null and void.Though	the  additional	 defence  raised  by  the   shippingcompanies must therefore fail, the main defence, as we	havealready	 found,	 succeeds.  None of the suits  were  broughtwithin a year from the date when the ship carrying the goodsleft the port of discharge.  We therefore dismiss with coststhe  Civil  Appeals Nos. 91 and 92 of 1958 and	confirm	 theorder  of dismissal made by the Bombay High Court.  One	 setof hearing costs will have to be paid.Civil  Appeal No. 88 of 1956 is infructuous because  of	 thefact,  as already indicated, that after the order of  remandnow appealed from was made by the Madras High Court the suitwas heard in the Small Causes Court and a decree was  passedand  that  decree has become final.   We  therefore  dismissCivil  Appeal  No. 88 of 1956, as already  ordered  by	thisCourt  when giving leave to appeal; the appellant  will	 paythe costs of the appeal to the respondent.			     Appeals dismissed.842