PETITIONER:TEA DISTRICTS LABOUR ASSOCIATION,CALCUTTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:EX-EMPLOYEES OF TEA DISTRICTS LABOURASSOCIATION AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:09/03/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  815		  1960 SCR  (3) 207 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC1617	 (9) R	    1968 SC1002	 (7) R	    1969 SC  90	 (8) RF	    1970 SC1960	 (3)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Closure  of business centres  held	malafide--If  no  closure in the eye of law in spite  of  actualclosure-lndustrial  Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act,	1950(XLVII Of 1950), SS. 22, 23,25F(C).HEADNOTE:As there was appreciable decline in the activities and busi-ness of the appellant it decided, by means of a	 resolution,to  close down two local agencies at Koraput  and  Berhampur(Ganjam) by May 31, 957.  About the same time the  appellantalso  thought  of retrenching its employees and	 decided  toretrench  ten of its employees with effect from December  1,1956.	An industrial dispute having arisen as a  result  ofthe said closure and208retrenchment it was referred to the industrial tribunal	 foradjudication.	 Before	 the  industrial  Tribunal  it	 wasconceded on behalf of the appellant that the retrenchment often  employees was invalid as the statutory notice  requiredby S. 25F(c) of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal)Act had not been served.  It was also stated afterwards thatthe  statutory compensation had been paid to the  retrenchedworkmen.   As regards the question of closure  the  tribunalcame  to the conclusion that the closure was not bona  fide,and  it held that the legal consequence was that  there	 wasnot  a real closure.  Accordingly it directed the  appellantto  reinstate the ten retrenched workmen and to pay all	 itsworkmen	 employed at the two centres as though	the  centreshad not been closed and were actually working.	On appeal byspecial leave :Held, that when the two agencies had in fact been closed thefinding	 about	malafides could not justify  the  conclusionthat the said two agencies should be deemed to continue	 andthe  tribunal  was  not entitled to make an  award  on	thatbasis.Banaras Ice Factory Ltd. v. Its Workmen, [1957] S.C.R.	143,explained and distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE,  JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal	No.  169  of1959.Appeal by special leave from the Award dated June 26,  1958,of the Industrial Tribunal, Orissa, at Cuttack in  ReferenceNo. 2 of 1957.M.C.  Setalvad, Attorney-General for India,  Vidya  Sagarand B. N. Ghosh, for the appellants.M.S. K. Sastri and R. Patnaik, for respondent No. 1.B. Patnaik, for respondent No. 2.1960.  March 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal by special leave arises	froman  industrial	dispute	 between  the  appellant,  the	 TeaDistricts  Labour Association, and the respondents  the	 ex-employees  of the appellant and another.  The dispute  whichwas referred to the industrial tribunal for its adjudicationconsisted of two items:,,(a) Whether the retrenchment of tenworkers	 of  Koraput and Ganjam Agencies  of  Tea  DistrictsLabour Association effected on the 30th November, 1956,	 wasjustified,  if	not,  to  what	relief	those  workers	 areentitled?(b)Whether the closure of the Koraput and Ganjam  Agenciescontemplated	by   Messrs.	Jardine	   Henderson	Ltd,Secretaries, Tea District, Labour209Association  with  effect from the 31st May, 1957,  is	bonafide:  If so, whether the affected workers are	entitled  tosome other alternative employment in any other establishmentunder the same management.  If not bona fide, to what reliefthose workers are entitled ? "On this reference the award which was passed by the Tribunaldirects	 the appellant to pay to the ten retrenched  workmenall the pay and allowances to which they were entitled	fromNovember 30,1956, to May 31, 1957, and it further orders theappellant  to  pay all its employees of	 the  Berhampur	 andKoraput agencies, including the said ten retrenched workmen,all  their  pay and allowances from May 31, 1957,  till	 onemonth  after the publication of the award within which	timethe  Management,  if  it  so chooses,  may  close  down	 theagencies, and in that event there would be no necessity	 forfurther	 notice	 of  retrenchment to  those  ten  retrenchedworkmen.   The award has further added that if no bona	fideclosure	 is  effected the ten retrenched  workmen  would  beentitled  to statutory notice if the Management still  wantsto  retrench  them.  In regard to the  other  employees	 theaward provides that they shall be entitled to all their	 payand allowances as before and the agencies will in the eye oflaw be continuing agencies.  The validity of the latter por-tion  of the award in particular is challenged before us  bythe appellant in the present appeal by special leave.The   appellant	 is  a	Company	 Limited  by  Guarantee	  ofperformance  of service only for its members and was  formedin 1917.  The appellant's members are the owners of  severaltea gardens in West Bengal and Assam and its chief object isto  recruit  labour  from different parts of  India  and  tosupply	it  to	the  said tea  gardens	according  to  theirrequirements.	Jardine Henderson Ltd. have since 1953	beenand  still  are	 the  Secretaries  of  the  appellant.	 Theappellant had a number of establishments in different  partsof   India  which  were	 known	as  Local  Agencies,   LocalForwarding  Agencies and Forwarding Agencies.  The  functionof  Local Agencies and Local Forwarding Agencies was  mainlyto recruit labour and the function of27210Forwarding  Agencies  was  mainly to  accommodate  and	feedlabour while in transit to and from tea gardens.Towards	 the end of the appellant's financial year  1955-56,the  appellant's  Secretary  received  estimates  from	 theconstituent  members regarding their estimated	requirementsof labour for the seasons from 1956 to 1959, and it appearedthat these estimates were between 6,000 to 10,000 adults perannum,	whereas	 in the past  the  appellant's	organisationcatered	 for  the recruitment of about 30,000  laborers	 perannum.	 This  appreciable  decline in	the  activities	 andbusiness of the appellant raised the problem of closing someof its agencies.  In or about the beginning of March,  1957,it became apparent to the appellant that the requirement  oflabour was rapidly falling and that it would be necessary toclose  some  of its agencies.  Thereupon, the  question	 wasconsidered  by	the appellant's general	 committee  held  onMarch  7, 1957, and it was decided inter alia that  the	 twolocal  agencies at Koraput and Berhampur (Ganjam) should  beclosed,	 if possible by April 1, 1957.	It was in  pursuanceof this resolution that the. appellant ultimately decided toclose  down the said two agencies by May 3 1, 1957.  One  ofthe points referred to the Industrial Tribunal is in  regardto this closure.About	the  same  time	 the  appellant	 also	thought	  ofretrenching  its employees and in pursuance of its  decisionin  that  behalf ten employees were retrenched	with  effectfrom December 1, 1956.	This retrenchment is the other issuereferred to the Industrial Tribunal for adjudication.Before the Industrial Tribunal it was conceded on behalf  ofthe   appellant	 that  the  impugned  retrenchment  of	 tenemployees was invalid in view of the fact that the statutorynotice	required by s. 25F(c) had not been served,  and	 theappellant agreed that the said ten persons would  therefore,be  entitled to the same pay and privileges that  they	weregetting	 on  the date of retrenchment until  May  31,  1957,which  was the date of the closure.  Thus the position	withregard to the impugned retrenchment was not in doubt.In  regard  to	the question of	 closure  the  tribunal	 hasobserved that what it had to consider was whether211the  closure  was  real and bona fide.	 It  considered	 theevidence and it was inclined to hold that the  apprehensionsentertained  by the appellant in regard to the fall  in	 itsactivities  and	 work  were  not  justified  and  that	 theappellant  could  have carried on with the two	agencies  inquestion.   The tribunal also considered the fact that	soonafter  the  closure of Koraput and  Berhampur  agencies	 theappellant opened another agency at Vizianagaram, which is  aplace in Andhra Pradesh but is at some distance from Koraputin  Orissa.  The tribunal was not satisfied that the  expla-nation	 given	by  the	 appellant  for	 reopening  of	 theVizianagaram  agency,  which  had been	closed	on  the	 6thSeptember,  1956,  was	satisfactory.	In  the	 result	 thetribunal  came	to the conclusion that the closure  was	 notbona  fide, and it held that the legal consequence was	thatit  was	 not  a real closure.  It is on the  basis  of	thisconclusion  that it issued a direction to the  appellant  toreinstate  the	ten retrenched workmen and to  pay  all	 itsworkmen	 employed at the two centres as though	the  centreshad not been closed and were actually working.	In  reachingthis conclusion the tribunal has relied on the	observationsmade  by  this	Court in Banaras Ice  Factory  Ltd.  v.	 ItsWorkmen (1).It  is	common	ground that the	 compensation,	due  to	 theemployees on the footing that the closure was not justified,has  been duly paid to all the employees concerned, and	 thelearned Attorney General has stated to us that so far as theten  retrenched	 workmen are concerned they have  also	beenpaid the statutory compensation.  On behalf of the appellantthe  learned  Attorney General had made it  perfectly  clearthat even if the appeal were to succeed the appellant  wouldnot  claim  any	 amount	 back  from  any  of  its  employeesconcerned though it would be entitled in law to do so.The main grievance made before us by the appellant is  aboutthe  direction	of  the tribunal that the  closure  must  betreated as non est and that the agencies must be held to  becontinuing  and	 must  continue to  function  despite  theirfactual closure.  The argument is(1)[1957] S.C.R. 143.212that  even if the closure may not be bona fide it  does	 notfollow that the closure in fact has not taken place.  It  isnot  a	case  where closure is a pretence  or  the  plea  ofclosure	 is  unreal in the sense that  having  purported  toclose the agencies, the same agencies have been	 functioningall the time, under a different garb.  In fact the  agencieshave  been  closed  even according to  the  finding  of	 thetribunal.   It is contended that the finding about the	malafides  of the closure is open to serious doubt	because	 thesaid finding is not supported by any legal evidence, and  ina  sense  is opposed to the weight of the  evidence  on	 therecord.	 We are inclined to think that there is considerableforce in this contention.  But assuming that the closure  isnot  shown to be bonafide, does it necessarily	follow	thatthe closure is a fiction and it is unreal in the sense	thatthe agencies can be treated to be in existence in the eye ofthe law ? That is the very narrow point which arises for ourdecision in the present appeal.As we have already indicated the conclusion of the  tribunalon this point is based on the observations of this Court  inthe case of Banaras Ice Factory Ltd. v. Its Workmen (1).  Itwill, therefore, be necessary to examine those	observationsand decide whether they really justify the conclusion of thetribunal.   In	that case this Court was  dealing  with	 thedecision  of  the Labour Appellate Tribunal on	a  complaintfiled  before  it under s. 22 of  the  Industrial  'Disputes(Appellate Tribunal) Act (Act No. XLVIII of 1950), hereaftercalled	the Act.  It appears that during the pendency of  anappeal	before the Labour Appellate Tribunal  the  appellantCompany	 decided to close down its business and gave  noticeto  all the workmen that their services would be  terminatedupon the expiry of 30 days from July 16, 1952.	That led  tothe complaint under s. 23 of the Act on the allegation	thats.  22	of the said Act had been  contravened.	 The  LabourAppellate Tribunal had found that the closure was bona fide.It  conceded that the appellant had the right to  close	 itsbusiness for bona fide reasons; but nevertheless it took theview  that permission should have been obtained	 before	 thesaid closure.  That is why according to it the appellant wasguilty of contra-(1)  (1957] S.C.R. 143.213vening	s. 22(b) of the Act.  This decision was reversed  bythis  Court.  In doing so, the true scope and effect of	 ss.22 and 23 of the Act were considered and it was held that ifthe  impugned closure was bona fide then neither of the	 twosections  came into operation.	Thus the position  was	thatthe  closure  was  bona	 fide and  that	 the  appellant	 hadcommitted no breach of s. 22(b) of the Act.  In dealing withthe scope and effect of s. 23 this Court observed: "There ishardly	any occasion for praying for permission to lift	 theban  imposed  by s. 22, when the employer has the  right  toclose  his business and bona fide does so, with	 the  resultthat  the  industry itself ceases to exist ".  Then  it	 wasadded: " If there is no real closure but a mere pretence  ofa closure or it is mala fide, there is no closure in the eyeof  the law and the workmen can raise an industrial  disputeand  may even claim under s. 23 of the Act".  It is on	thislatter	observation  that  the	Tribunal  has  founded	 itsdecision.   With respect we do not read the observations  aslaying	down an. unqualified and categorical proposition  oflaw  that wherever a closure is mala fide it must be  deemedto be unreal and non-existent.	What this Court has said  isthat in cases of pretence of closure no closure in fact	 hastaken  place  and for the purpose of s. 23 of the  Act	withwhich  the  Court  was	dealing	 a  mala  fide	closure	 mayconceivably  be	 treated as falling in the same class  as  apretence of closure.  But in the present case the facts	 arenot  in dispute.  There has been a closure and the  agencieshave  been closed and their business has been wound up.	  Ifit  is	found  that  the  closure  was	not  bona  fide	 theconsequences  would be the liability of the employer to	 paythe  higher compensation under s. 25-FFF of  the  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947.  But it is difficult to see how when thetwo agencies have in fact been closed the finding about malafides can justify the conclusion that the said two  agenciesshould	be deemed to continue and how the award can make  anorder on that basis.  Besides, as we have already  indicatedeven  the  finding about the mala fides of  the	 closure  isitself	open  to  serious doubt.  In our  opinion  the	saidfinding is214based on mere surmises and is entirely opposed to the weightof evidence adduced in this case.The  result  is	 that  portion of  the	award  which  issuesdirections  to the appellant on the basis that the  closure,in  the eyes of law, had not taken place is set aside.	 Theappeal	succeeds to that extent and must be allowed.   Therewill be no order as to costs in the circumstances.Appeal allowed.