PETITIONER:NIEMLA TEXTILE FINISHING.  MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE 2ND PUNJAB INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL(with connected appeals anDATE OF JUDGMENT:10/01/1957BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  329		  1957 SCR  335ACT:Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV Of 1947)-- Constitutionalvalidity  -  Legislative  competency-Powers  of	  IndustrialTribunals- Whether Legislative-The Government of India	Act,1935 (25 & 26 Geo. 5, Ch. 42), Sch.  VII, List III,  Entries27, 29-Constitution of India, Arts. 14, 19 (1) (f) and (g).HEADNOTE:The  disputes between the appellants and their workmen	werereferred to the Industrial Tribunal for adjudication by	 theappropriate   Government,  under  the  provisions   of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act, 1947.  It was contended  for	 theappellants  that  the  reference to  the  Tribunal  was	 badbecause	 (1)  the  Act	was  ultra  vires  the	Constitutioninasmuch as its provisions are ,Violative of the fundamentalrights	enshrined in Art. 14 and Art. 19 (1) (f) and (g)  ofthe   Constitution,   (2)  the	Industrial   Tribunals	 arelegislating in the guise of adjudication,, and this  amountsto delegation of the powers of legislation which it was	 notcompetent  to the Central Legislature to do so, and (3)	 thedefinition of the term " industry'.. comprises industrial aswell as non-industrial concerns and, therefore, the Act	 wasnot  within  the  legislative  competence  of  the   CentralLegislature  under  Entry  29 of List III  of  the  Seventh-Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935.Held:	  (1)  The  Industrial Disputes Act,  1947,  is	 notunconstitutional  and  the  provisions of  the	Act  do	 notcontravene  Arts.  14  and  19	(1)  (f)  and  (g)  of	 theConstitution.The  basic idea underlying all the provisions of the Act  isthe  settlement of industrial disputes and the promotion  ofindustrial  peace so that production may not be	 interruptedand  the  community  in general may be	benefited,  and	 theappropriate  Government has, therefore, a discretion in	 thematter	of  making  the reference to one  or  other  of	 theAuthorities under the Act and also in the matter of carryingout  the,  various  provisions of  the	Act,  including	 thecurtailment or extension of the period 'of136preperation  of the award of the Tribunal, having regard  tothe.  exigencies  of  the situation and the  objects  to  beachieved.(2)  Industrial	  Tribunals   while   settling	  particularindustrial  disputes  referred	to them,  lay  down  certaingeneral	  principles  to  be  observed	in  regard  to	 thedetermination  of  bonus,  reinstatement  of  dismissed	  ordischarged  employee,% and other allied topics	mainly	withthe   object  of  promoting  industrial	 peace,	 but   theseprinciples  or rules of conduct, though they are applied  asprecedents  by the Industrial Tribunals	 while	adjudicatingupon other similar industrial disputes referred to them, arenot rules of law and do not amount to legislation.(3)  The  Act  is not ultra vires the  legislature,  as	 thematters	 included  within  the	definition  of	the  term  "industry  "  are within the legislative	 competence  of	 theCentral	 Legislature under Entries 27 and 29 of List III  ofthe Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 333-335  of1955 and Petitions Nos. 65, 182 and 203 of 1956.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedApril  15, 1955, of the Punjab High Court at  Chandigarh  inCivil Writs Nos. 131-133 of 1955 and Petitions under Article32  of	the  Constitution of India for	the  enforcement  offundamental rights.Veda   Vyasa,  Bhagirath  Das  and  M.	L.  Kapur  for	 theappellants.Veda  Vyasa,  S.  K.  Kapur  and  N.  H.  Hingorani,  forthepetitioners in Petitions Nos. 65 and 182 of 195.5.Veda  Vyasa,  Bhagirath Das and B. P.  Maheshwari,  for	 thepetitioner in Petition No. 203 of 1956.S.   M. Sikri, Advocate-General of Punjab, Jindra Lal and T.M. Sen, for respondent No. 2 in the Appeals and	 respondentsNos. 1 and 2 in the Petitions.Sadhan	Chandra Gupta, Bawa Shiv Charan Singh and  JanardhanSharma, for respondent No. 3 in the appeals and in PetitionsNos. 182 and 203 of 1956.Porus  A. Mehta and T. M. Sen, for the Intervener in  AppealNo. 333 of 1955 (Attorney-General of India on behalf of	 theUnion of India).			    337Veda  Vyasa,  S.  K.  Kapur and N.  H.	Hingorani,  for	 theInterveners in the appeals (petitioners in Petitions Nos. 65and 182 of 1956).1957.  January 10.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI J.-These three appeals with special leave from	 theorders of the High Court of Punjab and three petitions underArt.  32  of  the Constitution challenge the  vires  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act, 1947 (XIV of	 1947),	 hereinafterreferred to as the Act.The  appellants	 in  the three appeals are  engaged  in	 themanufacture and production of textiles.	 There were disputesbetween	 them and their workmen, and, by  two  notificationseach dated March 4, 1955, in regard to the first two of themand by a notification dated February 25, 1955, in respect ofthe  third, the State of Punjab, respondent No. 2,  referredthe  said  disputes  for  adjudication	to  the	 2nd  PunjabIndustrial Tribunal, Amritsar, respondent No. 1, who enteredupon   the  said  references  and  issued  notices  to	 theappellants to file their written statements.  The appellantsin  Civil  Appeal  No.	335  of	 1955  filed  their  writtenstatement  on  March 31, 1955, without	prejudice  to  theircontentions that respondent No. 2 was not competent to referthe  disputes for adjudication by respondent No. I and	thatrespondent  No.	 I  had no  jurisdiction  to  entertain	 thereference.  The appellants in Civil Appeals Nos. 333 and 334of 1955 were called upon to file their written statements onor  before April 23, 1955, which they did raising  the	sameobjections as to the competency_ of respondent No. 2 and thejurisdiction of respondent No. 1. On April 14, 1955, however, the appellants in all the threeappeals	 filed writ petitions. in the High Court under	Art.226  of	 the Constitution against, inter  alia,	 respondentsNos.  I and 2 asking for writs in the nature of	 prohibitionrestraining  respondent	 No.  1	 from  proceeding  with	 thereferences,  writs  in the nature -of  certiorari  directingrespondent No. 1 to transmit the records of the	 proceedingsfor  being  quashed  and writs in  the	nature	of  mandamusdirecting respondent No. 243338to cancel the notifications under which the said  referenceshad  been made.	 The grounds which were urged in support  ofthese  applications  were that their mills  were  controlledindustries  within the definition of the term  contained  inel.  (ee) of s. 2 of the Act as amended by s. 32 of Act	 LXVof  1951,  that	 they were engaged   in	 the  production andmanufacture  of	 textile goods and were a  textile  industrywithin	the meaning of the word 'textiles" as  mentioned  inthe First Schedule to Industry (Development and	 Regulation)Act,  1951, and had been declared an industry of  which	 theUnion Government had taken control within the meaning of thesaid  Act,  that the disputes purporting to be	referred  byrespondent  No.	 2  to	respondent  No.	 1  were  industrialdisputes concerning a controlled industry specified in	thisbehalf	by the Central Government and that,  therefore,	 theappropriate Government for the purposes of the Act so far astheir mills were concerned was the Union Government and	 notrespondent   No.  2  and  that	respondent  No.	 2  had	  nojurisdiction   or  authority  to  refer	 the   existing	  orapprehended  disputes  between	them and  their	 workmen  torespondent No. I and the references being invalid there	 wasno  jurisdiction in respondent No. 1 to entertain  the	saidreferences.   These petitions came up for hearing  before  aDivision  Bench of the High Court consisting of the  learnedChief  Justice and Mr. Justice Kapur who dismissed the	samein  limine  observing that they	 were  premature,  obviouslymeaning that respondent No. I could determine the  objectionin  regard to its jurisdiction to entertain  the  referencesand  unless and until it did so the appellants had no  causeof action to file the said petitions'It appears that on or about April 12, 1955, a Division Benchof  the	 said  High Court consisting of	 the  learned  ChiefJustice and Mr. Justice Falshaw had admitted a writ petitionbased  on  the very same grounds and had granted a  stay  ofproceedings  before  respondent No. 1 therein.	 It  furtherappears	 that on April 18, 1955, the very same	Bench  whichdismissed the petitions of the appellants in limine on April15, 1955, admitted a writ petition filed by the Saraswati			    339Sugar  Syndicate Ltd., inter alia, against respondent No.  2wherein, besides the grounds urged in their writ  petitions,an additional ground questioning the constitutionality of s.10  of the Act had also been urged and ordered the  stay  ofproceedings before the Industrial Tribunal.  The  appellantsfiled on April 18, 1955, applications before the High  Courtfor  leave to appeal, to this Court and for stay of  furtherproceedings before respondent No. 1. Notices were issued  bythe High Court to the respondents in those applications	 butstay of further proceedings was refused.The  appellants having come to know of the order  passed  bythe  Division Bench of the High Court on April 18, 1955,  onthe  writ  petition of the Saraswati Sugar  Syndicate  Ltd.,filed  petitions on April 19,1955, for review of the  ordersdated  April  15, 1955, dismissing their writ  petitions  inlimine.	 In these petitions for review the appellants,	witha  view to bring their applications within the ratio of	 thewrit petition of the Saraswati Sugar Syndicate Ltd., allegedthat  their  counsel had inadvertently failed to  raise	 thecontention  that  s.  10  of the Act  was  ultra  vires	 theConstitution.  The High Court was prepared to issue  noticesto the respondents but was not prepared to grant the stay offurther	 proceedings with the result that on the request  ofthe counsel for the appellants the said petitions for reviewwere dismissed on April 20, 1955.On  April 25, 1955, the appellants filed petitions  in	thisCourt  for  special leave to appeal under Art.	136  of	 theConstitution.	In these petitions for special	leave,	theycontended  that s. 10 of the Act was void and infringed	 thefundamental   right   guaranteed  under	 Art.  14   of	 theConstitution  "being discriminatory in its ambit".   Specialleave was granted to all the three appellants by this  Courton  May	 2, 1955, and an order for  consolidation  of  theseappeals was made on June 1, 1955.This plea as to the unconstitutionality of s. 10 of the	 Actwas  elaborated	 by  the  appellants in	 para  12  of  theirstatement of the case filed before us:-"  That	 section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act  is	alsoultra  vires of the Constitution of India,. as it  conflictswith the provisions of Art. 14 of the340Constitution.	The section is discriminatory in  ambit	 andscope.	It confers on the appropriate Government unregulatedand arbitrary powers inasmuch as no rules have been made  tojustify	 differentiation between parties similarly  situatedand  circumstanced in every respect.  There is	no  rationalbasis  of classification providing different procedures	 fordealing with the same or similar matters.  The reference  toa  Board  under section 10 (1) (c) of the Act  is  certainlymore beneficial, speedy, inexpensive and less cumbersome."Not content with merely challenging the constitutionality ofs. 10 of the Act, the appellants in Civil Appeal No: 333  of1955  filed  in this Court on October 3,  1956,	 a  petitionunder Art. 32 of the Constitution, being Petition No. 203 of1956,  challenging  the vires of the whole  Act	 on  variousgrounds which had not been urged in the proceedings taken bythe appellants till then.  We shall not enumerate all  thesegrounds	 but  refer at the appropriate place only  to  thosecontentions which were urged before us by the learned  coun-sel at the hearing.A  similar  petition under Art. 32 of the  Constitution	 hadbeen filed by the Atlas Cycle Industries Ltd., on  September15,  1956,  being  Petition  No.  182  of  1956,  containingidentical grounds of attack against the constitutionality ofthe Act.  A notification had been issued on April 27,  1956,by  the	 State of Punjab referring the	industrial  disputesbetween	 them and their workmen for adjudication by the	 2ndIndustrial Tribunal and they asked for a writ of  certiorariquashing  the  said reference and writs of  mandamus  and/orprohibition  directing the State of Punjab to  withdraw	 thesaid reference from the Industrial Tribunal and	 prohibitingthe Industrial Tribunal from proceeding with the same.Petition No. 65 of 1956 had been filed on March 21, 1956, byfive  workmen of. the Indian Sugar and	General	 EngineeringCorporation.   Ltd., carrying on an undertaking in the	nameand   style   of  the  Saraswati   Engineering	 Works.	   Anotification  had  been	 issued	 by  the  State	 of   Punjabreferring the disputes which had			    341arisen between them and their workmen to the 2nd  IndustrialTribunal   and	one  of	 the  matters  thus   referred	 foradjudication was whether the workmen dismissed or dischargedafter July 15, 1955, should be reinstated.  The	 petitionerswere  temporary hands employed by the Saraswati	 EngineeringWorks  in  place  of  the permanent  workmen  who  had	beendismissed  or discharged after July 15, 1955, and  they,  inthe interests of themselves and 200 other employees who werein  the	 same category, apprehended that if  the  IndustrialTribunal ordered the reinstatement of the permanent  workmenwho  had been dismissed or discharged, they would be out  ofemployment.    They  had  apparently  the  support  of	 theSaraswati Engineering Works who were keen to retain them  intheir	employ	and  filed  the	 petition  challenging	 theconstitutionality of the Act on identical grounds.   Besidesthus  challenging the vires of the Act, they also  urged  intheir  petition	 that  the  undertaking	 was  a	  controlledindustry and the appropriate Government which was  competentto  make the reference was the Union Government and not	 theState of Punjab.  They also asked for the same reliefs as inPetition No. 182 of 1956.The  Attorney-General of India asked for and obtained  leaveto intervene on behalf of the Union of India at the  hearingof the Civil Appeals Nos. 333 to 335 of 1955 and so did	 thepetitioners in both the Petitions Nos. 182 of 1956 and 65 of1956.	These petitions along with Petition No. 203 of	1956were set down for hearing and final disposal after the CivilAppeals	 Nos. 333 to 335 of 1955 and all of them were  heardtogether.  This common judgment will govern the decision  inall.It  may be noted at the outset that the question as  to	 thevarious	 undertakings  being controlled-industries  and	 theappropriate  Government	 for making the	 references  of	 theindustrial  disputes arising between them and their  workmenbeing the Union Government and not the State of Punjab whichwas  the very basis of the writ petitions filed in the	HighCourt  and  was also one of the grounds	 oil  which  specialleave. to342appeal	had  been obtained from this  Court  was  ultimatelyabandoned in the course of the hearing before us and nothingmore  need be said about it.  The only contention which	 hasbeen  urged before us in these three special  leave  appealsand the three Art. 32 petitions is in regard to the vires ofthe Act.In  order  to appreciate the grounds of attack	against	 theconstitutionality  of  the Act it is  necessary	 to  brieflysurvey	the,  provisions of the Act as it stood	 before	 theamendments  made by the Industrial Disputes  (Amendment	 andMiscellaneous  Provisions) Act, 1956 (XXXVI of	1956).	 TheAct  was  passed, as the preamble shows,  with	the  expresspurpose	 of  making  provision	for  the  investigation	 andsettlement  of	industrial disputes and	 for  certain  otherpurposes therein appearing.  Section 2(j) defines " industry"  to mean any business, trade, undertaking, manufacture  orcalling	 of  employers and includes any	 calling,  ,service,employment, handicraft or industrial occupation or avocationof workmen.  Section 2(k) defines an " industrial dispute  "to  mean  any dispute or difference  between  employers	 andemployers,  or	between employers and  workmen,	 or  betweenworkmen and workmen, which is connected with the  employmentor  nonemployment  or the terms of employment  or  with	 theconditions of labour, of any person.  Chapter II of the	 Actsets out the authorities under the Act and they are (1)	 TheWorks Committee, (2) Conciliation Officers,(3)	  Boards  ofConciliation, (4) Courts of Enquiry, and (5) IndustrialTribunals.   These are different authorities with  differentpowers and the purposes for which they are set up and  theirfunctions  are prescribed in the Act.  The  Works  Committeeconsists of representatives of employers and workmen engagedin  a  particular establishment and is	constituted  in	 theprescribed manner in order to promote measures for  securingand  -preserving  amity	 and  good  relations  between	 theemployers  and	workmen	 and to that  end  to  comment	uponmatters of their common interest or concern and endeavour tocompose	 any  material difference of opinion in	 respect  ofsuch  matters.	The Conciliation Officers are  appointed  bynotification by			    343the   appropriate  Government  charged	with  the  duty	  ofmediating  in  and promoting the  settlement  of  industrialdisputes.    Boards  of	 Conciliation  are  constituted	  bynotification  by  the  appropriate  Government	as  occasionarises for promoting the settlement of industrial  disputes.Courts	of  Enquiry are constituted by notification  by	 theappropriate Government as occasion arises for enquiring intoany matter appearing to be connected with or relevant to  anindustrial dispute.  Industrial Tribunals are constituted bythe  appropriate Government for the adjudication  of  indus-trial disputes in accordance with the provisions of the Act.Chapter	 III provides for reference of disputes	 to  Boards,Courts	or  Tribunals  and the relevant	 portion  of  s.  10provides as under:"  10.	(1) Where the appropriate Government is	 of  opinionthat any industrial dispute exists or is apprehended, it mayat any time, by order in writing(a) refer the dispute to a Board for promoting a  settlementthereof; or(b)refer  any  matter  appearing to  be	 connected  with  orrelevant to the dispute to a Court for enquiry ; or(c)refer the dispute or any matter appearing to be connectedwith,  or  relevant  to,  the dispute,	to  a  Tribunal	 foradjudication:Provided that where the dispute relates to a. public utilityservice	 and a notice under section 22 has been	 given,	 theappropriate  Government shall, unless it considers that	 thenotice	ha been frivolously or vexatiously given or that  itwould  be inexpedient so to do, make a reference under	thissub-section notwithstanding that any other proceedings underthis Act in respect of the dispute may have commenced."Chapter	 IV prescribes the procedure, powers and  duties  ofthe  several  authorities.  The	 Conciliation  Officers	 areenjoined for the purpose of bringing about a settlement of adispute,  without delay to investigate the dispute  and	 allmatters	 affecting  the	 merits	 and  the  right  settlementthereof and are also empowered to do all such things as theythink fit for the purpose of inducing the parties to come toan amicable settlement344of the dispute.	 If a settlement of the dispute or of any ofthe  matters  in  dispute is arrived at	 in  the  course  ofconciliation proceedings, they are to send a report  thereofto the appropriate Government together with a memorandum  ofthe settlement signed by the parties to the dispute.  If  nosuch  settlement  is arrived at, the  Conciliation  Officershave,  as  soon as practicable and after the  close  of	 theinvestigation, to send to the appropriate Government a	fullreport setting forth the proceedings and steps taken by themfor ascertaining the facts and circumstances relating to thedispute	 land  for  bringing  about  a	settlement   thereoftogether   with	  a  full  statement  of  such	 facts	 andcircumstances,	their  findings	 thereon,  the	reasons	  onaccount	 of which, in their opinion, a settlement could	 notbe   arrived   at   and	 their	 recommendations   for	 thedetermination  of  the dispute.	 If, on a  consideration  ofsuch  report  the appropriate Government is  satisfied	thatthere  is a case for reference to a Board or  Tribunal.,  itmay make such reference.  The Boards of Conciliation to whoma  dispute  may be referred under the Act  are	enjoined  toendeavour  to bring about a settlement of the same  and	 forthis purpose they are, in such manner as -they think fit andwithout	 delay, to investigate the dispute and	all  mattersaffecting  the. merits and the right settlement thereof	 andare  also empowered to do all such things as they think	 fitfor  the purpose of inducing the parties to come to  a	fairand amicable settlement of the dispute.	 If a settlement  ofthe  dispute or of any of the matters is arrived at  in	 thecourse	of the conciliation proceedings they are to  send  areport thereof to the appropriate Government together with amemorandum  of the settlement signed by the parties  to	 thedispute.   If no such settlement is arrived at they are,  assoon as practicable after the close of the investigation, tosend  to  the appropriate Government a full  report  settingforth	the  proceedings  and  steps  taken  by	  them	 forascertaining  the  facts and circumstances relating  to	 thedispute and for bringing about a settlement thereof togetherwith a full statement of such facts and circumstances, theirfindings  thereon the reasons on account of which, in  theiropinion, a'			    345settlement could not be arrived at and their recommendationsfor the determination of the dispute.  The Courts of Enquiryare  enjoined to enquire into the matters referred  to	themand  report  thereon  to the  appropriate  Government.	 TheIndustrial  Tribunals to whom an industrial dispute  may  bereferred  for  adjudication are to  hold  their	 proceedingsexpeditiously and, as soon as, practicable on the conclusionthereof, submit their award to - the appropriate Government.Section 19, sub-ss. (3), (4) and (6)prescribe the period  ofoperation of awards:" 19. (3) An award shall, subject to the provisions of	thissection, remain in operation for a period of one year:Provided that the appropriate Government may reduce the saidperiod and fix such period as it thinks fit:Provided further that-the appropriate Government may, beforethe  expiry  of	 the  said  period,  extend  the  period  ofoperation by any period not exceeding one year at a time  asit  thinks  fit	 so,  however,	that  the  total  period  ofoperation of any award does not exceed three years from	 thedate on which it came into operation.(4)  Where  the appropriate Government, whether of  its	 ownmotion	or  on	the application of any party  bound  by	 theaward,	considers that since the award was made,  there	 hasbeen a material change in the circumstances on which it	 wasbased,	the  appropriate Government may refer the  award  orpart of it to a Tribunal for decision whether the period  ofoperation  should  not,	 by  reason  of	 such  change,	 be,shortened  and	 the  decision	if  the	 Tribunal  on	such-reference  shall  subject to the provision for	 appeal,  befinal.(6)  Notwithstanding  the expiry of the period of  operationunder  sub-section  (3),  the award  shall  continue  to  bebinding	 on  the parties until a period of  two	 months	 haselapsed from the date on which notice is given by any  partyor parties intimating its intention to terminate the award."Chapter V contains provisions in regard to the proof strikesand outs and declares what are illegal strikes and lock-outsfor- the purpose of the Act,44346Chapter V-A was introduced by Act XLIII of 1953 and containsprovisions  in	regard to the lay-off  and  retrenchment  ofworkmen.   The other provisions of the Act are not  relevantfor the purpose of this enquiry and need not be referred to.It  follows from this survey of the relevant  provisions  ofthe Act that the different authorities which are constitutedunder the Act are set up with different ends in view and areinvested   with	  powers  and  duties  necessary   for	 theachievement of the purposes for which they are set up.	 Theappropriate  Government	 is invested with  a  discretion  tochoose	one or the other of the authorities for the  purposeof  investigation and settlement of industrial disputes	 andwhether	 it  sets  up one authority or	the  other  for	 theachievement   of   the	desired	 ends	depends	  upon	 itsappraisement of the situation as it obtains in a  particularindustry or establishment.  The Works Committees are set  upwith  the  object of avoiding such a clash  of	interest  ormaterial  differences of opinion as would otherwise lead  toindustrial  disputes.  If the measures adopted by the  WorksCommittees  do	not achieve the end in view  and  industrialdisputes  arise	 or  are apprehended to	 arise	between	 theemployers  and	the workmen, Conciliation  Officers  may  beappointed  by  the appropriate Government charged  with	 theduty of mediating in and promoting settlement of  industrialdisputes.  If the Conciliation Officers succeed in  bringingabout  a settlement between the employers and  the  workmen,such  settlements  are to be signed by the  parties  to	 thedisputes  ;  but  if  in spite	of  the	 endeavours  of	 theConciliation.  Officers properly directed in that behalf  nosettlement   is	  arrived  at  between	the   parties,	 theConciliation  Officers	are  to send a full  report  in	 themanner	indicated above so that the  appropriate  Governmentmay have before it complete materials in order to enable  itto  come  to  a	 conclusion whether  there  is	a  case	 forreference to a Board or Tribunal at the case may be.  If theappropriate Government is satisfied that there is a case forreference  to,	a Board of Conciliation, it  may  constitutesuch Board -for	 promoting the settlement  of the industrialdispute consisting of a Chairman and 2 or 4 other members			    347as  it thinks fit, charged with the duty of doing  all	suchthings	as  it thinks fit for the purpose  of  inducing	 theparties	 to  come to a fair and amicable settlement  of	 thedispute.  If the Board succeeds in arriving at a settlement,a   report  thereof  together  with  a	memorandum  of	 thesettlement will be sent by it to the appropriate  Governmentbut if no such settlement is arrived at the Board will, sendto  the appropriate Government a full report in	 the  mannerindicated  above  including  its  recommendations  for	 thedetermination  of  the	dispute.  It may  be  noted  that  areference to the Board of Conciliation is but a	 preliminarystep  for the settlement of the industrial dispute  and	 thereport	made by it in the event of a failure to bring  aboutsuch  settlement will furnish materials to  the	 appropriateGovernment  to	make up its mind whether it will  refer	 thedispute for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal.  Before,however,  any  such  reference is made	by  the	 appropriateGovernment it may set up a Court of Enquiry for the  purposeof enquiring into any matter appearing to be 'connected withor relevant to an industrial  dispute.	The Court of Enquirywill  enquire into those matters and report thereon  to	 theappropriate   Government   within  six	 months	  from	 thecommencement  of  the  enquiry.	 That  report  will  furnishmaterials   to	the  appropriate  Government   for   finallydetermining whether the industrial dispute shall be referredby  it for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal.  It	 maybe  that  the  report  of the  Court  of  Enquiry  disclosescircumstances	under  which  the   appropriate	  Governmentconsiders  that it is not necessary to refer the  industrialdispute	 for  adjudication to the Industrial  Tribunal.	  Inthat  event the matter will end there and. the	appropriate,Government  may await further developments before  referringthe  industrial dispute for adjudication to  the  IndustrialTribunal.  If,, on the other hand, the materials embodied inthe  report of the Court of Enquiry  disclose  circumstanceswhich  make it necessary for the appropriate  Government  torefer  the  industrial	dispute	 for  adjudication  to	 theIndustrial   Tribunal,	the  appropriate   Government	willconstitute an Industrial Tribunal for adjudication348of the industrial dispute-in accordance with the  provisionsof  the Act.  The Industrial Tribunal would then  adjudicateupon  such dispute and submit its award to  the	 appropriateGovernment.These  are  the steps which are contemplated in	 the  mannerindicated  in s. 10 of the Act for reference of disputes  toBoards,	 Courts or Tribunals.  It is not necessary that	 allthese  steps should be taken seriatim one after	 the  other.Whether	 one or the other of the -steps-should be  taken  bythe  appropriate Government must depend upon the  exigenciesof  the	 situation,  the  imminence  of	 industrial   striferesulting   in	cessation  or  interruption  of	  industrialproduction  and	 breach	 of  industrial	 peace	end-angeringpublic tranquility and law and order.  If the matter  brooksdelay  the  appropriate Government  may	 start	conciliationproceedings  culminating  in  a	 reference  to	a  Board  ofConciliation and also Court of Enquiry, if need be, before afulfledged. reference is made to. an Industrial Tribunal If,on  the	 other	hand,  the  matter  brooks  no,	 delay	 theappropriate  Government may possibly refer the dispute to  aBoard  of Conciliation before referring it for	adjudicationto  an Industrial Tribunal or may straightaway refer it	 foradjudication by the Industrial Tribunal.What  step would be taken by the appropriate Government	 -inthe  matter  of the industrial dispute must,  therefore,  bedetermined   by	 the  surrounding  circumstances,  and	 thediscretion vested in the appropriate Government for  settingup  one or the other of the authorities for the	 purpose  ofinvestigation and settlement of industrial disputes must  beexercised  by  it  having regard to the	 exigencies  of	 thesituation and the objects to be achieved.  No hard and	fastrule  can  be laid down as to the setting up of one  or	 theother  of the authorities for the purpose of bringing  aboutthe ,desired end which is the settlement of industrial	dis-putes  and promotion of industrial peace and, it  is  hardlylegitimate  to say that such discretion as is vested in	 theappropriate  Government will be exercised "with an evil	 eyeand an unequal hand." It  is contended in the first instance that the  provisionsof the Act are violative of the fundamental			    349rights	enshrined in Art. 14 and Art. 19(1) (f) and  (g)  ofthe  Constitution  ;  that it is  open	to  the	 appropriateGovernment to differentiate -between the parties  ,similarlyplaced and circumstanced in every respect and in the absenceof any rules made in this behalf the appropriate  Governmenthas unregulated and arbitrary powers to discriminate betweenthe   parties;	 that  there  is  no   rational	  basis	  ofclassification	providing different treatment for  differentparties	 and it, is open to the appropriate  Government,  inone  case,  to refer the industrial dispute to	a  Court  ofEnquiry,  and in another case to refer it to  an  IndustrialTribunal  and  that  the procedures  before  the  Courts  ofEnquiry	 and before the Industrial Tribunals are  different,the one before the Courts of Enquiry being less onerous	 andless:  prejudicial  to	the parties  than  that	 before	 theIndustrial  Tribunals.	It is submitted that the reports  ofthe Courts of Enquiry are quite innocuous whereas the awardsof  the Industrial Tribunals are binding on the parties	 andare.  backed up by sanctions behind them, and in  regard  tothe,   periods	of  operation  also,  it  is  open  to	 theappropriate  Government, in one case to reduce the -same  toan extent which will make them negligible in point, of	timewhereas	 in  another  case it is open to it  to	 extend	 theperiods even. upto three years from the dates on. which	 theawards	came into operation and the  appropriate  Governmentmay,  in  the exercise of its  unfettered  and	uncontrolleddiscretion,   adopt  different	measures  in  the  case	  ofdifferent  parties so as to discriminate between   them	 andwork  to the prejudice of those	 less  fortunately,situated.It  is also contended that these  discriminatory  provisionsbeing	inextricably  interwoven  with	the  rest   of	 theprovisions  of	the  Act  or being  such  that	the  CentralLegislature   would  not  have	enacted	 the  rest  of	 theprovisions  of the Act without including the  same  therein,the whole of the Act is ultra vires the Constitution.We are unable to accept these contentions.  Having regard tothe  provisions of the Act hereinbefore set out it is  clearthat  s.  10  is not discriminatory in	its  ambit  and	 theappropriate Government is at liberty350as  and	 when the occasion arises to  refer  the  industrialdisputes  arising  or  threatening  to	arise  between	 theemployers  and	the  workmen  to one or	 the  other  of	 theauthorities  according to the exigencies of  the  situation.No two cases are alike in nature and the industrial disputeswhich  arise  or  are apprehended  to  arise  in  particularestablishments or undertakings require to be treated  havingregard	to  the	 situation prevailing in  the  same.   Therecannot be any classification and the reference to one or theother	of  the	 authorities  has  necessarily	got  to	  bedetermined  in	the exercise of its best discretion  by	 theappropriate   Government.    Such  discretion  is   not	  anunfettered or an uncontrolled discretion nor an unguided onebecause the criteria for the exercise of such discretion areto be found within the terms of the Act itself.	 The variousauthorities  are to be set up with particular ends  in	viewand it is the achievement of the particular ends that guidesthe  discretion of the appropriate Government in the  matterof setting up one or the other of them.	 The purpose  soughtto  be	achieved  by the Act has been well  defined  in	 thepreamble? to the Act.  The -scope of industrial disputes  isdefined in s. 2(k) of the Act and there are also  provisionscontained  in the other sections of the Act which relate  tostrikes and lock-outs, lay-off and retrenchment as also	 theconditions of service, etc., remaining unchanged during	 thependency  of proceedings.  These and  analogous	 provision,ssufficiently  indicate the purpose and scope of the  Act  asalso the various industrial disputes which may arise betweenthe  employers	and  their  workmen which  may	have  to  bereferred for settlement to the various authorities under theAct.  The achievement of one or the other of the objects  inview  by  such references to the Boards of  Conciliation  orCourts	of  Enquiry or Industrial Tribunals must  guide	 andcontrol	 the exercise. of the discretion in that  behalf  bythe appropriate Government and there is no scope, therefore,for the argument that the appropriate Government would be ina position to discriminate between one party and the other.			    351Apart  from the references to be thus made to the Boards  ofConciliation, Courts of Enquiry or Industrial Tribunals, theappropriate Government is also given the powers to prescribethe  period of duration of the award made by the  IndustrialTribunal.  Normally the award is to be in operation for	 oneyear from the date of its commencement.	 The  circumstances,however, may have changed between the date of the  referenceand  the date of the, award and power is thus given  to	 theappropriate  Government	 to reduce the said period  and	 fixsuch  period as it thinks fit.	Power is also given  to	 theappropriate  Government, if the circumstances  warrant	thatdecision,  to extend the period of operation by	 any  periodnot exceeding one year at a time as it thinks fit before theexpiry	of the normal period of one year-, provided  howeverthat  the  total period of operation of any award  does	 notexceed	three  years from the. date on which the  same	cameinto operation.	 This power is to be exercised, -if, in	 theopinion	 of  the appropriate Government,  the  circumstanceshave  not  so  changed	as to warrant  the  parties  to	 theindustrial  dispute to ask for a change in the terms of	 theaward  and  in that event the award may continue  to  be  inoperation  for	the maximum period of three years  from	 thedate of its commencement.  The case in which there has	beena  material change in the circumstances on which  the  awardhas been based is mentioned in s. 19(4) of the Act and therethe appropriate Government, whether of its own motion or  onan  application of any of the parties bound by the award  isempowered to refer the award or a part thereof to a Tribunalif  it	is  satisfied  about such  material  change  in	 thecircumstances for a decision whether the period of operationshould	not  by reason of such change be shortened  and	 thedecision  of the Tribunal on such reference, subject to	 theprovision for appeal, is declared to be final.	It  appears,therefore, that all the various possibilities are thought ofby those who framed this legislation and wide discretion hasbeen  given  to the appropriate Government  to	same  havingregard to the case or352to  refer  the question of the reduction of  the  period  ofoperation to an Industrial Tribunal in case there has been amaterial change in the circumstances on which the award	 wasbased.	 Here  also  it cannot be urged	 that  there  is  anunguided and unfettered discretion in the matter of changingthe  period  of	 operation of the  award.   The	 appropriateGovernment  cannot  merely by its own  volition	 change	 theperiod	without	 having	 regard to the	circumstances  of  aparticular  case.   There is no warrant for  the  suggestionthat  such discretion will be exercised by  the	 appropriateGovernment arbitrarily or capriciously or so as to prejudicethe  interest  of any of the parties concerned.	  The  basicidea  underlying  all  the provisions of  the  Act  is	the,settlement  of	industrial  disputes and  the  promotion  ofindustrial  peace so that production may not be	 interruptedand the community in general may be benefited.	This is	 theend  which  has got to be kept in' view by  the	 appropriateGovernment when exercising the discretion which is vested init in the matter of making the reference to one or the otherof  the authorities under the Act and also in the matter  ofcarrying  out the various provisions contained in the  othersections  of the Act including the curtailment or  extensionof  the period of operation of the award of  the  IndustrialTribunal.  We are, of opinion that there is no substance  inthe contention urged before us that the relevant  provisionsof   the   Act	and  in	 particular  a.	  10   thereof	 areunconstitutional  and  void as	infringing  the	 fundamentalrights guaranteed under Art. 14 and Art. 19 (1) (f) and	 (g)of  the Constitution.  If these provisions are	-thus  intravires  there  is no need to consider  the  further  argumentadvanced before us that these provisions are so inextricablyinterwoven with the other provisions of the Act or are	suchthat the Legislature would not haven acted the other  provi-sions of the Act without, :incorporating the same therein.It  is next contended that the Industrial Tribunals to	whomindustrial  disputes  are referred for adjudication  by	 theappropriate  Government	 are legislating in  the   guise  ofadjudication and this amounts to delegation			    353of  the powers of legislation which it was not competent  tothe  Central  Legislature to do.  The argument is  that	 theIndustrial Courts 'are not bound to follow the provisions ofthe  ordinary  law  of the land as  enacted  in	 the  IndianContract  Act,	the  Payment of	 Wages	Act,  the  Workmen'sCompensation  Act, the Indian Limitation Act and  the  like,but are authorised by the terms of the Act to lay down theirown  code of conduct in regard to industrial  relations	 andtheir  own policy in regard to the promotion  of  industrialpeace.	 This,	it  is	submitted  is  legislation  and	 theLegislature hat in effect abdicated its powers in favour  ofthe   Industrial  Courts.   The	 provisions  in	 regard	  toreinstatement  of  dismissed or	 discharged  employees,	 theprovisions  in	regard to lay-off and retrenchment  and	 theprovisions  in	regard	to strikes  and	 lock-outs,  amongstothers,	 are pointed out as introducing provisions  contraryto the positive law of the land and as laying down a code ofconduct or policy, and reference is made in this behalf to adecision  of the Federal Court in Western  India  AutomobileAssociation  v. Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, and Others	 (1)and  two  decisions  of the Madras  High  Court,  viz.,	 TheElectro Mechanical Industries Ltd., Madras v. The IndustrialTribunal  No.  2 for Engineering Firms and  Type  Foundries,Fort St.  George, Madras, and Another(1) and Shree MeenakshiMills Ltd. v. State of Madras (3).  It has to be remembered,however,  that 'the functions of the  Industrial  Tribunals,while adjudicating upon the industrial disputes referred  tothem  for  adjudication, are quite different from  those  ofarbitration  tribunals in commercial matters.  As  has	beenobserved by Ludwig Teller in 'Labour Disputes and CollectiveBargaining', Vol. 1, p. 536:" Then too, industrial arbitration may involve the extensionof an existing agreement, or the making of a new one, or  ingeneral the creation of new obligations or modifications  ofold  ones, while commercial arbitration	 generally  concernsitself with interpretation of(1)[1949] F.C.R. 321.(3)[1951] IT M.L.J. 382.(2) [1950] II M.L.J.479.354existing  obligations  and  disputes  relating	to  existingagreements."It  was	 also  observed	 by  the  Privy	 Council  in  LabourRelations  Board  of Saskatchewan v. John East	Iron  Works,Ltd.(1),  while referring to a claim for reinstatement by  adismissed employee as one of the typical matters in  disputebetween employers and employees:"   The	  jurisdiction	of  the	 Board	 (Labour   RelationsBoard)............  is not invoked by the employee  for	 theenforcement of his contractual rights: those, whatever	theymay  be,  he can assert elsewhere.  But	 his  reinstatement,which  the terms of his contract of employment might not  bythemselves  justify, is the means by which labour  practicesregarded  as  unfair  are  frustrated  and  the	 policy	  ofcollective  bargaining	as  a road to  industrial  peace  issecured.   It  is  in the fight of this	 new  conception  ofindustrial  relations that the question to be determined  bythe Board must be viewed."After  quoting	these  observations of	the  Privy  Council,Rajamannar, C. J., pointed out in Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd.v. State of Madras (2) at p. 388:" The essential object of all recent labour legislation	 hasbeen not so much to lay down categorically the mutual rightsand  liabilities  of employer and employees  as	 to  providerecourse to a given form of procedure for the settlement  ofdisputes  in  the interests of the maintenance	of  peacefulrelations  between parties, without apparent conflicts	suchas  are	 likely	 to interrupt production  and  entail  otherdangers.   It is with this object that in the United  Statesthere  has been legislation arranging for the adjustment  ofconflicting  interests by collective bargaining.   In  GreatBritain there have been Acts like the Industrial Courts Act,1919,  which provides for Industrial Courts to enquire	intoand  decide  trade disputes.  There is	also  provision	 forConciliation  Boards under the Conciliation Act,  1896.	  Infact,  our Industrial Disputes Act is modelled on these	 twoBritish Acts."(1)  [1949] A.C. 134.(2) [1951] II M.L.J. 382.355This  being  the object of the enactment of the Act  by	 theCentral	 Legislature,  the powers vested in  the  IndustrialTribunals  in  the matter of the  settlement  of  industrialdisputes referred to them for adjudication, wide though theymay be but guided as they are by considerations of policy asindicated above, can hardly be characterised as	 legislativepowers.	  No doubt they lay down certain general  principlesto  be	observed in regard to the  determination  of  bonus,reinstatement of dismissed or discharged employees and otherallied topics but they are enunciated mainly with the objectof  promoting  industrial peace	 while	settling  particularindustrial  disputes referred to them.	These principles  orrules  of conduct, though they are applied as precedents  bythe  Industrial	 Tribunals  while  adjudicating	 upon  othersimilar industrial disputes referred to them, are not  rulesof  law strictly so called and do not amount to	 legislationby  the	 Industrial Tribunals.	Even if the analogy  of	 theCourt,%	 of Law be applied to the Industrial Tribunals,	 theIndustrial  Tribunals at best lay down or declare  what	 theprinciples  or the rules of conduct governing the  relationsbetween	  employers   and  the	employees  should   be.	   Adeclaration of the principles or rules of conduct  governingthe  relations	between	 the parties  appearing	 before	 theIndustrial  Tribunals  is quite different  from	 legislationwhich would be binding on all parties and indeed there is noprovision  in  the  Act	 which	confers	 on  the  IndustrialTribunals  either the power to make rules which	 would	havestatutory  effect  or the power to legislate  in  regard  tocertain	  matters  which  crop	up  between  employers	 andemployees.   In the absence of any such provision, the	merefact that the Industrial Tribunals, while pronouncing awardsin  the	 several  industrial  disputes	referred  for  theiradjudication by the appropriate Government, lay down certainprinciples or rules of conduct for the guidance of employersand   employees,  does	not  amount  to	 exercise   of	 anylegislative  power and no question of their  being  investedwith. any legislative powers can arise.So  far	 as  delegated legislation  is	concerned,  abstractdefinitions of the difference between the judicial and356the  legislative  functions  have  been	 offered  (See	 thedistinction  drawn by Mr. Justice Field in  the	 SinkingFundcase  (1)),  but they are of little use when  applied  to  asituation of complicated facts.	 The function of a Court  isto  decide cases and leading jurists recognize that  in	 thedecision  of  many cases a Court must  fill  interstices  inlegislation.  A legislator cannot anticipate every  possiblelegal problem; neither can he do justice in cases after theyhad  arisen.   This inherent limitation in  the	 legislativeprocess	  makes	 it  essential	that  there  must  be	someelasticity  in	the  judicial process.	 Even  the  ordinarycourts	of law apply the principles of justice,	 equity	 andgood  conscience  in many cases; e. g., cages  in  tort	 andother  cases  where the law is not codified or does  not  interms cover the problem under consideration.  The IndustrialCourts	are to adjudicate on the disputes between  employersand   their  workmen  etc.,  and  in  the  course  of	suchadjudication  they must determine the "rights" and  "wrongs"of  the claim,% made, and in so doing they  are	 undoubtedlyfree  to  apply the principles of justice, equity  and	goodconscience, keeping in view the further principle that theirjurisdiction  is  invoked not for the  enforcement  of	merecontractual  rights  but  for  preventing  labour  practicesregarded as unfair and for restoring industrial peace on thebasis of collective bargaining.	 The process does not  ceaseto be judicial by reason of that elasticity or by reason  ofthe  application  of the principles of justice,	 equity	 andgood conscience.It  is not necessary to discuss the various  authorities  towhich  we have been referred on the nature and scope of	 thelegislative  process.	Suffice	 it to	say  that  there  isneither legislation nor delegated legislation in the  awardswhich  are  pronounced	by the	Industrial  Tribunals  whileadjudicating  upon the industrial disputes referred to	themfor adjudication and this contention is devoid of any force.It  is	lastly	contended that the Act was  not	 within	 thelegislative  competence of the Central Legislature  inasmuchas the definition of the term " industry " in(1)  (1879) 99 U. S. 700, 761 ; 25 L. Ed. 496, 5i6.			    357s.   2(j)  of the Act comprises industrial as well  as	non.industrial concerns and the Act which was expressly  enactedwith   the  object  of	investigation  and   settlement	  ofindustrial  disputes is not covered by Entry 29 of List	 IIIof  the	 Seventh Schedule to the Government  of	 India	Act,1935.  That Entry relates to ",Trade unions; industrial	 andlabour	disputes" and it is urged that	industrial  disputesbeing  the subject of legislation, there was no warrant	 fordefining  the  term  ,industry " so as	to  include  thereinlabour	disputes and those too in  non-industrial  concerns.The  definition of industry contained in s. 2(j) of the	 Actbeing  comprehensive  enough to include labour	disputes  innon-industrial concerns, it is not possible to separate	 theultra  vires  part of that definition from the	intra  virespart of it with the result that the whole of the  definitionmust be held to be ultra vires and in so far as it permeatedthe whole of the Act, the Act as a whole should be  declaredvoid.	This argument is sought to be supported	 by  drawingour  attention	to  certain  decisions	of  the	  IndustrialTribunals   which  have	 included   hospitals,	 educationalinstitutions And even the business of Chartered	 Accountantswithin	the definition of " industry " contained in the	 Actand  it	 is urged that if such non-industrial  concerns	 arealso  included in the definition of the term  industry.	  ",the Act is certainly ultra vires Entry 29.We  need not pause to consider whether the decisions of	 theIndustrial  Tribunals above referred to are  correct.	Thatwill  have to be done when the question is  raised  directlybefore	us for adjudication.  The fact that  the  IndustrialTribunals  have put an extended construction on the  term  "industry  "  is no reason for holding  that  the  definitionitself	is  bad or ultra vires. what we have got to  see  iswhether	 the definition of the term " industry "  is  withinthe legislative competence of the Central Legislature and ona prima facie reading of the same we are not prepared to saythat the same is- unwarranted or not covered by Entry 29.  Awrong  application of the definition to cases which are	 notstrictly  covered  by it cannot vitiate	 the  definition  ifotherwise it is not open to challenge.	It 46358should be noted that, according to the preamble, the Act wasenacted	 not only for settlement of industrial disputes	 butfor other purposes also.  It is open to the respondents alsoto  justify  the  definition of the term  "  industry  "  ascontained in s. 2(j) of the Act by having resort to Entry 27of  the	 same  List  which refers  to  ,Welfare	 of  labour;conditions of labour ; provident funds; employers' liabilityand  workmen's	compensation;  health  insurance,  includinginvalidity pensions; old age pensions The definition of	 theterm " industry " including as it does any calling, service,employment,   handicraft,   or	industrial   occupation	  oravocation  of workmen, would, therefore, be justified  underthis Entry even if the same is not covered by Entry 29 abovereferred  to.  The Entries in the Legislative  Lists  shouldnot  be	 given a narrow construction,  they  include  withintheir	scope  and  ambit  all	ancillary   matters   which,legitimately  come within the topics mentioned therein.	  Inthe   matters	before	us,  moreover,	 the   concerns	  orundertakings  are all industrial concerns and fall  squarelywithin the definition of the term " industry " strictly	 so-called and it is not open to the pursuers, situated as	theyare,  to  challenge the same.  This contention also  has  nosubstance and must be rejected.It,  therefore,	 follows  that the Act is  intra  Vires	 theConstitution and Civil Appeals Nos. 333,334 and 335 of	1955as  also  Petitions  Nos. 203, 182 and 65 of  1956  must  bedismissed.  There will, however, be one set of costs payableby  the appellants in Civil Appeals Nos. 333 to 335 of	1955to  the respondents therein So far as Petitions Nos. 203  of1956,  182 of 1956 and 65 of 1956 are concerned, each  partywill bear and Pay its respective costs thereof.Appeals and Petitions dismissed.			    359