PETITIONER:NANNI BAI AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:GITA BAIDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/04/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERSUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  706		  1959 SCR  479ACT:Agriculturist	Protection   of--Jurisdiction	of   SpecialJudge--Execution sale, if binds the legal representative notParty to it-Limitation-Mitakshara Law of Partition-Document,if  and when must be  registered-Admissibilitv-Sangli  StateAgriculturist Protection, Act (1 of 1936)-Indians LimitationAct (IX of 1908), Arts. 12, 134 and 148-Indian	RegistrationAct (Act XVI of 1908), ss. 17 and 49.HEADNOTE:This  was  an  appeal  by  the	defendants  in	a  suit	 forpossession on redemption of certain mortgages instituted  inthe Court of the Special judge exercising jurisdiction underthe Sangli State Agriculturists Protection Act (1 of  1936).Their  case was that the mortgaged properties had been	soldat  auction and purchased by their father who had sold	mostof  them  to  other persons more than 12  years	 before	 theinstitution  of the suit and as such the suit was barred  bylimitation.  The trial Court dismissed the suit.  On  appealthe  High Court of Sangli permitted the plaintiff  to  amendthe plaint originally filed so as to include the relief	 forredemption   and  remanded  the	 suit.	 The  trial   court,thereafter, decreed the suit in part, holding that the claimin respect of portions only of the mortgaged properties	 wasbarred by limitation.  Both the parties appealed to the HighCourt  of Bombay and the appeals were heard  together.	 TheHigh Court dismissed the defendant's appeal and allowed	 theplaintiff's  appeal holding that Art. 148 and not Art.	 I34Of   the  Limitation  Act  applied.   In  the  result,	 theplaintiff's suit was decreed in its entirety.Held, that the preliminary objection that the Special  judgehad  no jurisdiction under the Sangli  State  AgriculturistsProtection Act to entertain the suit must be overruled.	 Thefixing of ,915 as the date-line by the Act had reference  tosuch  reliefs  as could be had only by way of  reopening  ofclosed	transactions and could not, therefore, preclude	 theSpecial	 Judge	from granting other reliefs  in	 respect  oftransactions entered into prior to 1915.Nor  could  it be contended in bar that	 the  plaintiff	 wasbound in the first instance to set aside an auction sale  ofthe  mortgaged properties in execution of a money decree  inwhich  she  was	 not substituted in place  of  her  deceasedfather as his true heir and legal representative nor made  aparty  and  no	controversy was raised by  the	parties	 nordecided	 by  the  Court	 as  to	 who  was  the	true   legalrepresentative.	  The plaintiff was entitled to	 ignore	 thesale and the suit was not barred under Art. 12 of the  Limi-tation Act.480Malkarjun  Bin Shidramappa Pasare v. Narhari  Bin  Shivappa,(1900) L.R. 27 I.A. 216, doubted and distinguished.In  order  that	 Art.  I34 of the Limitation  Act  might  beattracted  to  a suit for possession on redemption,  it	 wasnecessary for the defendant to prove affirmatively that	 themortgagee  or  his succesor-in-interest	 had  transferred  alarger interest than was justified by the mortgage.   Where,as  in the present case, this was not done, Art.  134  couldnot  apply and the only other article which could-apply	 wasArt. 148 Of the Limitation Act.Under  the Mitakshara School of Hindu Law partition  may  beeither	 (1)  a	 severance  of	the  joint  status  of	 thecoparcenary by mere defining of shares but without  specificallotments  or	(2)  partition	by  allotment  of   specificproperties  by	metes and bounds according to  shares.	 Thelatter,	  if   reduced	to  writing   becomes	compulsorilyregistrable under s. I7(1)(b) of the Indian Registration Actbut the former does not.Consequently,  in the present case such	 unregistered  docu-ments  as  were	 adduced by the plaintiff  for	the  limitedpurpose	 of  proving partition in the former sense  did	 notfall within the mischief Of s. 49 of the Indian RegistrationAct and were admissible in evidence.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 177 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated October 9, 1950 ofthe  Bombay  High Court in First Appeals Nos. 361 &  363  of1948  from Original Decree arising out of the  judgment	 anddecree	dated  July  31,  1946,	 of  the  Court	 of  SpecialTribunal, Mangalvedhe in Special Suit No. 1322 of 1938.L.   K. Jha, Rameshwar Nath, J. B. Dadachanji and S.   N.Andley, for the appellant.K.   R. Bengeri and K. R. Chaudhari, for the respondent.1958.	April 14.  The following Judgment of the  Court	 wasdelivered bySINHA  J.-This is a defendants' appeal by leave	 granted  bythe High Court of Judicature at Bombay from the decision  ofthat Court, dated October 9, 1950, in two cross-appeals fromthe  decision of the Special Judge of the  Special  TribunalCourt  at Mangalvedhe, dated July 31, 1946, in Special	SuitNo.  1322  of  1938.  Of the two  cross-appeals,  the  FirstAppeal	No. 361 of 1948, by the appellants,  was  dismissed,and the First481Appeal No. 363 of 1948, by the plaintiff, was allowed.	 Theplaintiff-respondent had instituted another suit, being suitNo.  1894 of 1937, which was also tried along  with  SpecialSuit No. 1322 of 1938.	The former suit stands dismissed  asa  result of the judgment of the High Court, and  no  appealhas been brought against that judgment to this Court.The  suit out of which this appeal arises (Special Suit	 No.1322  of 1938), was instituted under the provisions  of	 theSangli State Agriculturists Protection Act, granting certainreliefs	 from indebtedness to agriculturists of	 that  Statewhich  was  then outside what used to be  called  "  BritishIndia ". The suit as originally framed, prayed for  accountsin respect of two mortgages, though there were really  threemortgages,  to be described in detail hereinafter,  and	 forpossession of the, lands comprised in those mortgages.	 Thefirst,	defendant filed his written statement on January  6,1940,  contesting  the suit mainly on the  ground  that	 theplaintiff  had no title to the mortgaged properties in	viewof  the	 events	 that  had  happened;  that  the   mortgagedproperties  had	 been sold at auction and purchased  by	 thedefendant's father who, thus, became the full owner thereof;and that he had sold most of the properties to other personswho   were   holding  those  properties	 as   full   owners.Defelidant No. 3 who also represents the original mortgagee,filed  a  separate written statement  supporting  the  firstdefendant.   Of the defendants who are transferees from	 theoriginal  mortgagees  or their heirs only  defendant  No.  8filed his written statement on March 26, 1940, substantiallysupporting the first defendants written statement and addingthat  he had purchased the bulk of the mortgaged  propertiesafter acquisition of full title by the mortgagees themselvesmore  than 12 years before the institution of the suit,	 andthat, therefore, it was barred by limitation.The  trial  court dismissed the suit by its  judgment  datedNovember  26, 1941, with costs.	 On appeal by  the  defeatedplaintiff,  the	 Special Bench of the High Court  of  SangliState,	by  its judgment dated June 13, 1944,  remanded	 thesuit for a fresh trial after having permitted the  plaintiffto amend the plaint so as to482include	 the relief for redemption.  It appears that  duringthe  pendency of the suit after remand, an  application	 wasmade in February, 1945, for making substitution in place  ofdefendant No. 2 who had died meanwhile, but the	 applicationwas  refused  by the Court on the ground that the  suit	 hadabated as against that defendant. After reframing the issuesand  rehearing the ,lase, the trial court, by  its  judgmentand  decree  dated  July 31, 1946,  dismissed  the  suit  asagainst	 defendants 6 to 9 who were holding portions of	 themortgaged  properties  by sale-deeds of the years  1919	 and1922, for more than 12 years, as barred by limitation  underArt. 134 of the Limitation Act.	 The Court decreed the	suitin  respect  of	 the mortgaged portion of R.  S.  No.  1735,having	an  area  of 16 acres and  21  gunthas,	 as  againstdefendant No. 3, and R. S. No. 334 against defendant No. 1'sheirs.	 Each  party  was directed to  bear  its  own  coststhroughout.  From that decision, the defendants preferred  afirst  appeal, being First Appeal No. 361 of 1948,  and	 theplaintiff  filed a crossings, being First Appeal No. 363  of1948,  in the High Court of Judicature at Bombay.  Both	 theappeals	 were  heard together along with  two  other  cross-appeals arising out of the other suit mentioned above.	 TheHigh  Court,  by its judgment and decree  dated	 October  9,1950, dismissed the defendants' appeal No. 361 of 1948,	 andallowed the plaintiff's appeal No. 363 of 1948, with  costs,holding	 that  Art. 148 and not Art. 134 of  the  LimitationAct,  applied to the suit, and that, therefore, it  was	 notbarred	by limitation.	In the result, the plaintiff's	suitwas  decreed  in  its entirety.Hence,  this  appeal  by	 thedefendants.A  number of Questions of fact and law have been  raised  bythe  learned  counsel  for the	appellants,  but  before  weproceed	 to deal with them, it is convenient to	 dispose  ofthe  preliminary  points in bar of the suit.  At  the  fore-front  of  his	submissions, the  learned  counsel  for	 theappellants   contended	that  the  suit	 was   outside	 thejurisdiction  of the Special Court created under the  SangliState  Agriculturists  Protection  Act	I  of  1936.	Withreference  to the provisions of that Act, it  was  contendedthat the Act authorized the Special Court to483take  accounts and to reopen closed transactions only up  tothe  year 1915, and that as the transactions which were	 thesubject-matter of the suit, were of the years 1898, 1900 and1901,  the Special Court was not competent to go into  thosetransactions  and  grant any relief  to	 the  agriculturist-plaintiff.   In our opinion, there is no substance  in	thiscontention.   The Sangli Act referred to above,	 had  chosenthe year 1915 as the dateline beyond which the court was notcompetent  to grant any relief to agriculturists, by way  ofreopening  of closed transactions.  But that does  not	meanthat  the  court itself was incompetent to grant  any  otherrelief	in respect of transactions of a date prior to  1915.If the legislature had intended to limit the jurisdiction ofthe Special Court, as contended on behalf of the appellants,nothing would have been easier than to say in express  termsthat the court's jurisdiction to grant relief was limited totransactions  of that year and after, but there are no	suchwords  of  limitation  in  any part  of	 the  statute.	 Theoperative  portion of the statute does not contain any	suchprovision.  In our opinion, therefore, the Special Court wascompetent  to entertain the suit for redemption,  though  itwould not be competent to reopen those transactions even  ifany such question of reopening closed transactions had	beenraised.	 But it is manifest that no such question arose	 outof  the	 pleadings  in this case.   Hence,  those  words  oflimitation  are wholly out of the way of the plaintiff.	  Itmay  be mentioned that no such plea of want of	jurisdictionof  the trial court, had been raised in the pleadings or  inthe issues in the courts below.	 This ground was raised, forthe first time, in the statement of case in this Court.	 Thepreliminary objection to the jurisdiction of the trial courtis, thus, overruled.It was next contended that the suit was barred by limitationof one year under Art. 12 of the Limitation Act.  The  pointarose  in  this way.  The properties sought to	be  redeemedwere mortgaged, as will presently appear, successively underthree  bonds  of  the  years 1898, 1900	 and  1901,  by	 theplaintiff's  father,  Gundi (omitting all reference  to	 hisbrothers).484It  appears  that there was a decree for money of  the	year1903,  in  favour  of a third party who is  not	 before	 us.Gundi  had been stied as the original defendant,  but  afterhis  death, his place was taken by his brother	Sadashiv  ashis  heir  and legal representative.  In  execution  of	 thedecree,	 the mortgaged properties were auction-purchased  bythe  mortgagee's Fulchand, son of the first defendant as  itappears from the sale-certificate, Exh.	 D-56, dated October31,  1907.  On the basis of this auction-purchase,  it,	 hasbeen  contended on behalf of the mortgagee that	 unless	 thesale were set aside, it would bind Gundi and his  successor-in-interest,  the plaintiff.  The High Court has  held	thatArt.  12 is out of the way of the plaintiff because  neitherthe  plaintiff nor her father was a party to the  sale.	  IfGundi himself were a party to the execution proceedings, thesale  as  against  him,	 would	bind  his  estate  and	 hissuccessor-in-interest.	 But  it  appears  that	 Gundi	 wassubstituted  by	 his  brother  Sadashiv	 in  the   executionproceedings.	 If    Sadashiv	   could    not	   be	 therepresentative-in-interest  of	Gundi,	as  will   presentlyappear,	 he could not have represented Gundi's estate,	and,therefore, the gale as against him, would be of no effect asagainst the plaintiff.	Bat it was argued in answer to	thiscontention  that  the decision of the Privy Council  in	 thecase  of  Malkarjun Bin Shidramappa Pasare  v.	Narhari	 BinShivappa (1), is an authority for the proposition that	evenif  the property was sold by substituting a wrong person  asthe  legal representative of the judgment-debtor,  the	salewould  bind the estate of the judgment-debtor as much as  ifthe  right  legal  representative had been  brought  on	 therecord	of  the execution proceedings.	 Assuming  that	 thedecision of the Privy Council in Malkarjun's case (supra) iscorrect, and that it is not subject to the infirmities of anex  parte judgment, asimay well be argued, that decision  isclearly	 distinguishable  so  far as  the  present  case  isconcerned.   In	 Malkarjun's case, the executing  court	 hadbeen  invited to decide the question as to who was the	truelegal representative of the judgment-debtor, and the  court,after(1)  (1900) L.B. 27 1, A. 216485judicially  determining	 that controversy,  had	 brought  onrecord	the  person who was adjudged to be  the	 true  legalrepresentative.	 The sale was held to be of the property  ofthe judgment-debtor through his legal representative,  afterthe adjudication by the court.	The Privy Council held	thatthough	the decision of the court on the question as to	 whowas  the  true	legal representative, was wrong,  it  was  adecision  given	 in  that  litigation  which  affected	 thejudgment-debtor	 and his true legal  representative,  unlessset aside in due course of law.	 In the present case,  therewas no such adjudication.  From the scanty evidence that  wehave  on this part of the case, it appears that	 Gundi,	 theoriginal  defendant,  had  died and had	 been,	without	 anycontroversy,  substituted  by his  brother,  Sadashiv.	 Thecourt  had not been invited to determine any controversy  asbetween Sadashiv and the true legal representative of  Gundideceased.   In execution proceedings, the property was	soldas that of Sadashiv the substituted judgment-debtor.  It wasa moneysale and passed only the right title and interest  ofSadashiv,  if  it bad any effect at all.   Malkarjun's	case(supra),  therefore, is of no assistance to the	 appellants.The  plaintiff, Gundi's daughter, not being affected in	 anyway  by the sale aforesaid, it is not necessary for  her  tosue  for setting aside the sale.  She was entitled,  as	 shehas  done,  to ignore those execution  proceedings,  and  toproceed	 on the assumption, justified in law, that the	salehad  not affected her inheritance.  The suit is,  therefore,not barred by Art. 12 of the Limitation Act.It was next contended that even if Art. 12 was not availableto the defendants by way of a bar to the suit, the suit	 wascertainly  barred  under  Art. 134 of  the  Limitation	Act.Under  Art.  134,  the	plaintiff  has	to  sue	 to  recoverpossession of immovable property mortgaged and,	 afterwards,transferred  by the mortgagee for a valuable  consideration,within	12 years from the date the " transfer becomes  knownto the plaintiff ". On the other hand, it has been contendedon behalf of the plaintiff that the usual486rule  of  60  years'  limitation  under,  Art.	148  of	 theLimitation  Act, governs the present case.  On this part  ofthe case, the defendants suffer from the initial  difficultythat  the sale-deeds relied upon by them in aid of the	pleaof  limitation under Art. 134, have not been brought on	 therecord	of this case, and, therefore, the Court is not in  aposition  to know the exact terms of the  sale-deeds.	Thisdifficulty,  the appellants sought to overcome	by  invitingour  attention to the statements made in paragraph 8 of	 theplaint.	  But those are bald statements giving	the  reasonswhy  the defendants other than the original mortgagee,	werebeing  impleaded as defendants.	 There is no clear  avermentin  that  paragraph of the plaint about the  extent  of	 theinterest  sold	by  those  sale-deeds  and  other  transfersreferred  to  therein.	The Court is, therefore,  not  in  aposition  to find out the true position.   Those  sale-deedsthemselves  were the primary evidence of the interest  sold.If  those  sale-deeds  which  are  said	 to  be	  registereddocuments,  were  not available for any	 reasons,  certifiedcopies	thereof could be adduced as secondary evidence,	 butno  foundation	has  been  laid in  the	 pleadings  for	 thereception  of other evidence which must always be of a	veryweak  character in place of registered documents  evidencingthose  transactions.   Article	134 of	the  Limitation	 Actcontemplates  a	 sale  by the mortgagee	 in  excess  of	 hisinterest  as such.  The legislature, naturally,	 treats	 thepossession  of such transferees as wrongful, and  therefore,adverse to the mortgagor if he is aware of the	transaction.Hence,	the longer period of 60 years for redemption of	 themortgaged  property  in the hands of the  mortgagee  or	 hissuccessor-in-interest, is cut down to the shorter period  of12  years'  wrongful  possession  if  the  transfer  by	 themortgagee  is  in  respect of a larger	interest  than	thatmortgaged  to  him.   In order, therefore,  to	attract	 theoperation of Art,. 134, the defendant has got  affirmativelyto prove that the mortgagee or his successor-in-interest hastransferred   a	 larger	 interest  than	 justified  by	 themortgage.   If	there is no such proof, the  shorter  periodunder Art. 134 is not available to the		     487defendant in a suit for possession after redemption.  A gooddeal  of argument was addressed on the question as  to	uponwhom lay the burden to prove the date of the starting  pointof  limitation under that article.  It was argued on  behalfof  the defendants-appellants that as it is a matter  withinthe  special knowledge of the plaintiff, the  plaint  shoulddisclose the date on which the plaintiff became aware of thetransfer.  On  the other hand, it was contended on behalf ofthe  plaintiff-respondent that it is for the  defendants  toplead  and  prove  the	facts  including  the  date  of	 theknowledge  which would attract the bar of  limitation  underArt.  134.  As we are not satisfied, for the  reasons  givenabove, that Art. 134 is attracted to the present case, it isnot  necessary to pronounce upon that controversy.   It	 is,thus, clear that if Arts. 12 and 134 of the Limitation	Act,do not stand in the way of the plaintiff's right to  recoverposses.-,ion, the only other Article which will apply to thesuit, is Art. 148.  It is common ground that if that Articleis applied, the suit is well within time.Before	dealing with the factual aspects of the case, it  isnecessary  to  deal  with another plea in bar  of  the	suitraised	on behalf of the appellants.  It is  contended	thatthe suit is bad for defect of parties in so far as the heirsof the second defendant are concerned.	It appears from	 theorder dated March 27, 1946, passed by the trial court duringthe  pendency  of  the suit after remand,  that	 the  seconddefendant died on April 26, 1943, that is to say, while	 theappeal	before	the Bombay High Court was  pending  in	thatCourt  before  remand.	 The  then  appellant  who  was	 theplaintiff,  did not take steps to bring on record the  legalrepresentatives	 of that defendant.  An attempt was made  bythe  plaintiff later on to get his heirs substituted on	 therecord,	 but the Court upheld the defendants  objection	 anddid  not allow substitution to be made.	 It was,  therefore,noted  that  the appeal which was then pending in  the	High'Court, had abated as against defendant No. 2, and that, theorder  of remand made after his death and in the absence  ofhis   legal   representatives,	would	not   affect   them.Therefore, it was488contended  that the whole suit would abate, because, in	 theabsence	 of the heirs of the deceased defendant No.  2,	 thesuit  was imperfectly constituted under 0. 34, r. I  of	 theCode  of  Civil Procedure.  That rule requires	that  "	 allpersons	 having an interest either in the  mortgage-securityor   in	 the  right  of	 redemption  shall  be	 joined	  asparties............ The original mortgagee. under the  threemortgages, was Kasturchand Kaniram.  The defendant No. 1 hascontested  this suit by filing a separate written  statementof  his	 own as the successor-in-interest  of  the  originalmortgagee.   It does not appear from the pleadings that	 thesecond defendant was a joint mortgagee with the first defen-dant or his ancestors.	The only statement in the plaint  inpara. 8, with reference to the second defendant, is that the"  Lands R. S. No. 1735 has gone to the share  of  defendantNo.  2. Defendant No. 3 looks after all the transactions  ofdefendant  No.	2 and the shop running under the name  of  'Kaniram Kasturchand ' has gone to the share of defendant No.3  ".  Thus, it is not a case of the first  defendant  beingjoint  with the other defendants including defendant  No.  2who is not now represented on the record.  If defendant	 No.2 had any distinct interest, that, on the plaint, appears tobe  confined  to R. S. No. 1735.  In the  written  statementfiled  on  behalf of the third defendant, it  is  stated  inpara. 9 that the mortgaged portion of R. S. No. 1735  which,according  to  the plaint, was the property  of	 the  seconddefendant,  was really in possession of the third  defendantas  owner.  It would, thus, appear that even in	 respect  ofthat plot, the second defendant had no subsisting  interest.This  claim  of the third defendant is strengthened  by	 thefact  that  the second defendant did not  file	any  writtenstatement challenging \the statement aforesaid of the  thirddefendant or claiming any interest in that plot or any otherpart  of the mortgaged property.  The second  defendant	 hadremained  ex parte throughout, apparently because he had  nointerest in the property to be redeemed.  In any view of thematter,	 his  heirs are not parties to this  suit,  and	 anydetermination in this suit will not bind them.	But it	doesappear that489the  second defendant had no subsisting interest, if he	 hadany at any anterior period, in any portion of the  mortgagedproperty.It  was	 also contended that the original  defendant  No.  8died,  and  in	his  place defendants Nos.  8a	to  8g	weresubstituted.	It  appears  that  of  the   seven   personssubstituted  on the record as the legal	 representatives  ofthe original defendant No. 8, only defendants 8e, 8f and  8gwere served, and the others, namely, 8a, 8b, 8c and 8d	werenot served.  On those facts, it was contended that the	suitfor  redemption was bad in the absence of all the  necessaryparties.   It was sought, at one stage of the arguments,  tobe argued that the suit had abated against defendant No.  8,and  this  argument,  in  the High Court,  was	met  by	 theobservation  that  under  O.  XXII,  r.	 4,  Code  of  CivilProcedure, it was enough to bring on record only some out ofthe  several legal representatives of a deceased  party,  onthe  authority of the judgment of the Bombay High  Court  inMulchand  v. Jairamdas (1).  But on the facts stated  above,there  was no room for the application of r. 4, O.  XXII  ofthe  Code.  All the legal representatives, at any rate,	 allthose persons who were said to be the legal  representativesof  the	 deceased  defendant No. 8,  had  been	substituted.Thus,  the requirements of O. XXTI had been fulfilled.	 If,subsequently,  some of the heirs, thus substituted, are	 notserved, the  question is not one of abatement of the suit orof the appeal, but as to whether the suit or the appeal	 wascompetent  in  the absence of those persons.   It  does	 notappear that the absent parties were really necessary partiesto  the	 suit  or the appeal in the  sense  that  they	werejointly interested with the others already on the record  inany   portion	of   the  mortgaged   property.	   In	whatcircumstances  they were not served or ordered to be  struckoff  from  the	record, does not  clearly  appear  from	 theprinted record before us.  The defendant No. 8e who  happensto be the brother of the original defendant No. 8, has	onlyfiled  a written statement claiming that he and his  vendor,defendant  No.	7, had been in possession for more  than  12years, and that(1)  (1934) 37- Bom.  L, R. 288,490the suit was, on that count, barred by limitation.  None  ofthe  other defendants who had been brought on the record  inplace  of the original defendant No. 8, has appeared in	 thesuit or in the appeal to contest the claim of defendant	 No.8e  that  he  was  in possession  of  that  portion  of	 theproperty,  namely, 6 acres and 32 gunthas out of R.  S.	 No.242  (old survey No. 233).  Renee, there was no question  ofabatement  of  the suit or the appeal.	 The  only  questionwhich may or may not be ultimately found to be material on aproper investigation, may be whether the decree to be passedin  this  case, would be binding on those who had  not	beenserved.	  For  ought we know it may be that  they  were	 notinterested  in	the plot sought to be  redeemed.   On  thesefindings,  it must be held that the  preliminary  objectionsraised on behalf of the defendants in bar of the suit,	mustbe  overruled.	Hence, the whole suit cannot be held  to  beincompetent for the reason that the heirs of defendant No. 2have not been brought on the record.Having,	 thus, disposed of the specific pleas in bar of	 thesuit, we now turn to the contentions bearing on the  factualaspects	 of  the  controversy.	It was	contended  that	 theplaintiff  who is admittedly the daughter of Gundi, has	 notestablished her title to the mortgaged properties.  In	thisconnection, it is convenient to set out the essential  factsin  relation to the three mortgage. deeds in question.	 Thefirst  mortgage	 is  dated  June  4,  1898,  in	 favour	  ofKasturchand Kaniram, executed by Gundi, son of Appa, for thesum  of	 Rs. 700, the amount borrowed by him,  mortgaging  7survey	numbers	 with an aggregate area of 43 acres  and  38gunthas.  It was a mortgage with possession for a period  of4  years,  with Gundi's two  brothers-Sadashiv	and  Rama-assureties for the repayment of the amount borrowed which	 wasthe personal responsibility of Gundi under the terms of	 thedocument.   But	 the property mortgaged	 is  admittedly	 theancestral  land of the three brothers.	The second  mortgagebetween the same parties in respect of the same	 properties,bears  the date May 25, 1900.  It secures a further  advanceof Rs. 300 to the mortgagor, the payment of which debt		  491is  again assured by his two brothers-Sadashiv	and  Rama-assureties.  The third mortgage-bond is for a further  advanceof  Rs.	 200  to  the mortgagor	 Gundi,	 with  his  brothersaforesaid  again  figuring  as sureties.   It  would,  thus,appear	that  all the three mortgages are between  the	sameparties as mortgagor and mortgagee, and the two brothers  ofthe  mortgagor join in executing the mortgages as  sureties,the  property given in mortgage belonging to all  the  threebrothers.  The total advance of Rs. 1,200 under those  threemortgages,  was	 made to the principal	debtor,	 Gundi.	  Itappears	 that, of the three brothers, Rama died	 first,	 andthen  Gundi,  some  time  in  1903,  survived  by  his	 twodaughters-the	plaintiff   and	 defendant  No.	  13.	 Theplaintiff's  case is that the common ancestor, Appa, in	 hislifetime,  had effected a partition amongst his	 three	sonsaforesaid, giving them each specific portions of his  lands,reserving a portion for the maintenance of his wife.   Thosetransactions  are  exhibits P-43, P-44, P-45 and  P-46,	 alldated  August  31  or September 1,  1892,  and,	 apparently,forming	 parts	of the same transaction.  These	 are  formaldocuments  giving details of the lands allotted to each	 oneof  the	 three	brothers  and to  their	 mother	 by  way  ofmaintenance.  The common recital in these documents, is thatthe executant of the documents, Appa, had three	 sons-Gundi,Sadashiv  and Rama, in order of seniority-" who cannot	pullon   together	The  document  further	 recites:   ".Hence,separation having been effected with your consent, (I  have)divided in every way and given you the estate, the land, theassets	etc., pertaining to the one-third share.   The	sameare  as under.	" Then follow the details of the  propertiesseparately  allotted to each of them.  The plaintiff's	caseis that ever since 1892-the date of the documents aforesaid-the  three  branches of the family had	become	separate  inestate, if not also divided in all respects, and that on thedeath  of Raina, Guildi and his brother	 Sadashiv  inheritedhis  one third share in equal moieties, that is to say ,  onthe  death  of	their  mother and  their  brother,  the	 twobrothers became owners of half and half of the ancestral492property  left by Appa who appears to have died	 soon  afterthe alleged partition.	The plaintiff's case further is thatthe  principal	mortgagor in all  those	 three	transactionsaforesaid,  was Gundi, and his two brothers had joined	onlyas  sureties by way of additional security in favour of	 themortgagee, It has been contended on the other hand on behalfof  the defendants-appallants that, in the  first  instance,the documets of 1892, referred to above, do not evidence  anactual partition by metes and bounds, but only represent  anarrangement  by	 way of convenience for more  efficient	 andpeaceful  management  of  the  family  property,  and  that,alternatively,	if those documents are claimed to  have	 theefficacy  of  partition	 deeds,	 they  are  inadmissible  inevidence  for want of registration.  The courts	 below	haveheld  that those documents are inadmissible in	evidence  asregular deeds of partition which they purport to be, in viewof  the	 provisions  of the  Registration  Act.	  But  thosetransactions  have been used for the collateral	 purpose  ofshowing	 that  from  that time, the  three  brothers  becameseparate  in estate, and evidencing the clear  intention  onthe  part of each one of them to live as separated  members,each  with one-third share in the paternal estate.  In	thisconnection, reliance was placed on behalf of the appellants'upon  what was alleged to be the subsequent conduct  of	 thethree  brothers	 after	1892,  as  evidenced  by  the  threemortgage-bonds	themselves  and the  saledeed-exhibit  D-54-dated  June 17, 1909.  By the last named document,  Sadashivpurported  to  sell  to Fulchand  Kasturchand,	son  of	 theoriginal  mortgagee, practically the whole of the  mortgagedproperties,  for  a sum of Rs. 1,500.  The recitals  in	 thesale-deed  would  certainly  make  it  out  that  the  threebrothers  were joint in estate, and that the  sale-deed	 wasbeing  executed to pay off the personal loans of  Gundi	 andRama during the Years 1900 to 1903, plus the loans taken  bythe vendor himself.  Finally, the deed proceeds to make	 thefollowing  very significant declaration as to the status  ofthe  members of the so-called joint family: "As I have	soldto you my right, title and interest in the above said lands,neither I nor my heirs and		     493executors of my will have any right whatsoever over the saidproperty.   As	I am the male heir in the  joint  family  bysurvivorship  nobody  except  me has  any  interest  in	 theaforesaid lands.  I have sold to you whatever interest I hadin the said, lands."It  was further contended that even strangers to the  familytreated	 the  brothers as joint in estate as  shown  by	 theexecution proceedings and the sale certificates of the years1903  to 1907, whereby Sadashiv was substituted as the	soleheir and legal representative of the defendant Gundi, in thesuit for money which resulted in the, auction-sale  referredto above, of the ear 1907.If  the	 transaction  of the year  1892,  is  admissible  inevidence, for the purpose for which the document was used inthe  courts  below, namely, to prove separation	 in  estate,there  is no room for ambiguity, and the position  is  clearthat  the  three  brothers  had	 become	 separate.   Furtherrecitals  in those documents that specific portions  of	 theancestral  property had been allotted to the three  brothersseparately,  being in the nature of a partition deed by	 thefather	in  his	 life-time,  and  being	 unregistered,	 areinadmissible in evidence to prove such a partition.  But theplaintiff's  case  does	 not depend  upon  proof  of  actualpartition  by  metes  and bounds.  In  the  absence  of	 anyambiguity,  the	 later transactions would  not	be  relevantexcept	to show that there was a subsequent reunion  amongstthe brothers, which is no party's case.But  it	 was argued on behalf of the appellants	 that  thosedocuments-exhibits P series aforesaid-are not admissible  inevidence even for the limited purpose of showing  separationin  estate.   The  question,  therefore,  is  whether  thosedocuments  " purport or operate to create, declare,  assign,limit  or extinguish, whether in present or in	future,	 anyright,	title or interest, whether vested or contingent,  ofthe  value  of	one hundred rupees and	upwards,  to  or  inimmovable  property", within the meaning of s. 17(1) (b)  ofthe Registration Act.  No authority has been cited before usin support of this contention.	Partition in the63494Mitakshara sense may be only a severance of the joint statusof the members of the coparcenary, that is to say, what was'once a joint title, has become a divided title though  therehas been no division of any properties by metes and  bounds.Partition  may	also mean what ordinarily is  understood  bypartition  amongst  co-sharers who may not be members  of  aHindu coparcenary.  For partition in the former sense, it isnot  necessary	that  all the members of  the  joint  familyshould agree, because it is a matter of individual volition.If  a  coparcener  expresses  his  individual  intention  inunequivocal  language to separate himself from the  rest  ofthe  family,  that  effects a partition, so  far  as  he  isconcerned,  from the rest of the family.  By  this  process,what was a joint tenancy, has been converted into a  tenancyin  common.  For partition in the latter sense of  allottingspecific  properties or parcels to  individual	coparceners,agreement   amongst  all  the  coparceners   is	  absolutelynecessary.  Such a partition may be effected orally, but  ifthe  parties  reduce the transaction to	 a  formal  documentwhich  is intended to be the evidence of the  partition,  ithas  the  effect  of declaring the exclusive  title  of	 thecoparcener  to	whom a particular property  is	allotted  bypartition,  and	 is, thus, within the mischief of  s.  17(1)(b),  the material portion of which has been  quoted  above.But  partition	in the former sense of defining	 the  sharesonly  without  specific	 allotments  of	 property,  has	  noreference  to immovable property.  Such a  transaction	onlyaffects	 the  status of the member or the members  who	haveseparated themselves from the rest of the coparcenary.	 Thechange	of status from a joint member of a coparcenary to  aseparated  member  having a defined share in  the  ancestralproperty, may be effected orally or it may be brought  aboutby  a  document.   If the document  does  not  evidence	 anypartition by metes and bounds, that is to say, the partitionin the latter sense, it does not come within the purview  ofs. 17(1) (b), because so long as there has been no partitionin  that  sense,  the  interest	 of  the  separated   membercontinues to extend over the whole joint property as before.Such a transaction495does not purport or operate to do any of the things referredto  in	that  section.	Hence, in so far  as  the  documentsreferred  to  above are evidence of partition  only  in	 theformer sense, they are not compulsorily registrable under s.17, and would, therefore, not come within the mischief of s.49  which  prohibits  the reception  into  evidence  of	 anydocument  "  affecting	immoveable  property  ".  It   must,therefore,  be held that those documents have  rightly	beenreceived in evidence for that limited purpose. Lastly,  it  was contended that if those documents  of	 theyear  1892  are admissible to prove separation	amongst	 thethree  brothers,  then, oil the death of one of	 the  three,namely,	 Rama,	and of their mother,  the  entire  ancestralproperties including the mortgaged properties, vested in thetwo brothers in equal shares.  Both by the  auction-purchaseof the year 1906 (D-57-D) and the sale deed (exhibit D-54 ofthe  year  1909), Sadashiv's moiety share in  the  mortgagedproperty,   was	 purchased  by	Fulchand   aforesaid.	 Theplaintiff,  therefore,	could only claim  the  other  moietyshare  of  her father, Gundi.  In our opinion, there  is  noanswer to this contention because it is clear upon a  properconstruction   of  the	three  mortgage-bonds  and  on	 theplaintiff's  own case that the entire  ancestral  propertiesand not only Gundi's share, had been mortgaged.	 The  appealwill, therefore, be allowed to the extent of the half  sharerightly belonging to Sadashiv, and the decree for possessionafter  redemption  will	 be  confined  to  the	other	halfbelonging to the plaintiff's father.In the result, the appeal is allowed to the extent indicatedabove.	 As success between the parties, has  been  divided,they are directed to bear their own costs throughout.Appeal allowed in part.496