PETITIONER:SMT.  SHANNO DEVI	Vs.RESPONDENT:MANGAL SAINDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/09/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASDAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR   58		  1961 SCR  (1) 576 CITATOR INFO : F	    1965 SC 810	 (8) O	    1966 SC1614	 (4,5,12) RF	    1971 SC 472	 (2,7,8) O	    1974 SC 645	 (4)ACT:Migration to India-Citizenship, claim for-Intention of resi-ding   permanently-Election   dispute-"	 Migrated   to	 theterritory  of India ", " Ordinarily resident ", meaning ofConstitution of India, Art. 6.HEADNOTE:The  respondent was the successful candidate at the  generalelection  held	in March, 1957, for the	 Punjab	 LegislativeAssembly.   The	 appellant who was one of  the	unsuccessfulcandidates,  filed an election petition and  challenged	 thevalidity of the respondent's election on the grounds,  interalia,  that the latter was not a citizen of India  and	was,therefore,  not	 qualified to stand for	 election.   It	 wasfound that he was born of Indian parents sometime in 1927 inIndia as defined in the Government of India Act, 1935, in  avillage	 which	since  August  15,  1947,  became  part	  ofPakistan,  that in 1944 he had moved from his home  districtto Jullunder in what is now the territory of India, and thatafter  August  15, 1947, he definitely made up his  mind  tosettle	in  India  with	 the  intention	 of  residing  therepermanently.   There was some evidence to show that he	wentto Burma in January, 1950, and made unsuccessful attempts tosecure permission from the Government of Burma to stay therepermanently.  The question was whether the respondent  couldbe  deemed  to be a citizen of India within the	 meaning  ofArt. 6 of the Constitution of India.Held:(1)   that	 the  expression  "  migrated  to   theterritory  of India " in Art. 6 of the Constitution means  "migrated  at  any  time	 before	 the  commencement  of	 theConstitution to a place now in the territory of India ".(2)that in Art. 6 the words " migrated to the territory ofIndia  "  mean	" come to the territory of  India  with	 theintention of residing there permanently ".(3)that	 where a person moves from one country to  anotherand has, at the time of moving, a intention to remain in thecountry where he moved only temporarily, but later on  formsthe  intention of residing there permanently, he  should  beheld  in law to have migrated to that country at  the  laterpoint of time.(4)that for applying the test of being " ordinarily  resi-dent  in  the  territory  of India since  the  date  of	 hismigration  " in Art. 6(b)(i), what is necessary to be  shownis  that during the period beginning with the date on  whichmigration became577complete and ending with November 26, 1949, as a whole,	 theperson	has been " ordinarily resident in the  territory  ofIndia ". Whether he was not in India on January 26, 1950, orwhether	 he formed an intention of taking up  his  permanentresidence  in Burma when he left for that place in  January,1950, was not relevant.(5)That	 the words " ordinarily resident " in the  Consti-tution	mean  "	 resident during  this	period	without	 anyserious	 break ". It is not necessary that for every day  ofthis period the person should have resided in India.(6)that the respondent satisfied the requirements of  Art.6 ofthe	 Constitution  and that his claim to  be  deemed  acitizen of India must be upheld.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 247 of 1960.Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 3, 1958, ofthe Punjab High Court in First Appeal from Order No. 131  of1958.A.V. Viswanatha Sastri and Naunit Lal, for the appellant.U.M. Trivedi and Ganpat Rai, for the respondent.1960.  September 7. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyDAS  GUPTA  J.-What  do	 the words "  has  migrated  to	 theterritory  of India " in Art. 6 of the Constitution  mean  ?That  is the main question in this appeal.   The  appellant,Shanno	Devi, was one of the unsuccessful candidates at	 thegeneral	  election  held  in  March  1957  for	the   PunjabLegislative Assembly.  The respondent, Mangal Sain, was	 thesuccessful  candidate.	The nomination papers of  these	 andother candidates which were scrutinised on February 1, 1957,were  accepted on the same date.  The voting took  place  onMarch 12, and after counting of votes on March 14, 1957, therespondent, Mangal Sain was declared duly elected.  On March27,  1957,  the	 appellant filed an  election  petition	 andchallenged the respondent's election on various grounds, theprincipal  ground  being  that	the  Returning	Officer	 hadimproperly  accepted the nomination paper of the  respondenton the ground that he was not a citizen of India and was notqualified  to  stand for election.  With the  other  groundswhich578were  taken in this petition we are no longer  concerned  asafter  the Election Tribunal rejected these several  groundsthey  were not pressed before the High Court and  have	alsonot  been raised before us.  The Election  Tribunal  howeverheld that Mangal Sain was not an Indian citizen at the	timehe  was	 enrolled as a voter or at the time  his  nominationpapers	were  accepted	and even at the	 time  when  he	 waselected.   Accordingly	the Tribunal  allowed  the  electionpetition and declared the respondent's election to be  void.On  appeal by Mangal Sain to the High Court the	 only  pointraised	was whether the appellant was a citizen of India  atthe commencement of the Constitution.  If he was a  citizenof  India  at  the date of such	 commencement,	it  was	 notdisputed,  he  continued  to be a citizen of  India  on	 allrelevant dates, viz., the date of his enrollment as a voter,the date of acceptance of his nomination and the date of hiselection.   If however he was not a citizen of India at	 thecommencement of the _Constitution he had not since  acquiredcitizenship  and  so  his  election  would  be	void.	 Therespondent's  case  all along was that he was a	 citizen  ofIndia  at the commencement of the Constitution under Art.  5of the Constitution and apart from that he must be deemed tobe  a citizen of India at such commencement under Art. 6  ofthe   Constitution.   The  Election  Tribunal	as   alreadyindicated  rejected  both these	 contentions.	The  learnedjudges	of  the High Court while indicating that  they	wereinclined to think that the respondent's claim to citizenshipof  India  under  Art.	5 could not  be	 sustained  did	 notconsider  that matter in detail, but held that his claim  tobe  deemed to be a citizen of India at the  commencement  ofthe  Constitution  under Art. 6 thereof must  prevail.	 Theprimary	 facts as found by the Tribunal on the evidence	 ledby the parties before it, have been correctly summarised  inthe judgment of the High Court in these words:	      "On  the	evidence  led  by  the	parties	 the	      learned Tribunal held that it was proved	that	      Mangal   Sain  was  born	of  Indian   parents	      sometime	 in  1927  in	village	  Jhawarian,	      District	Sargodha, and that when he was	only	      two years old he was taken by his parents from	      579	       Jhawarian  to Mandlay in Burma wherefrom	 the	      entire  family returned to Jullunder  (Punjab)	      in  1942	when  Burma  was  occupied  by	 the	      Japanese	forces during the Second World	War.	      After   having  stayed  for  a  few  days	  in	      Jullunder,  Mangal Sain, his parents  and	 his	      brother  went to their home district  Sargodha	      where  they stayed for about two or two and  a	      half  years.  During this period	Mangal	Sain	      passed  Matriculation  examination  from	 the	      Punjab  University  and after  having  himself	      matriculated  he again returned to  Jullunder,	      where  he was employed in the  Field  Military	      Accounts Office from 8th December, 1944 to 7th	      August,	1946,	when   his   services	were	      terminated  because of his continuous  absence	      from  duty.   Mangal Sain's  parents  and	 his	      brother  according  to  the  findings  of	 the	      learned  Tribunal also returned from  Sargodha	      to Jullunder and lived there for about two and	      a	 half years from some time in  1945  onwards	      before  they  again went over to	Burma  which	      country  they  had  left in 1942	due  to	 its	      occupation  by  the  Japanese  forces.   While	      Mangal  Sain  was	 in  service  in  the  Field	      Military	Accounts Office, he joined  Rastriya	      Swayam  Sewak  Sangh movement and	 became	 its	      active  worker.  Sometime after  his  services	      were  terminated, he shifted the scene of	 his	      activities  to  Hissar  and  Rohtak  districts	      where be moved from place to place to organise	      the  Rastriya  Swayam  Sevak  Sangb  movement.	      During this period apparently he had no  fixed	      place  of residence and he used to  reside  in	      the  offices  of the Jan Sangh  and  took	 his	      meals  at various Dhabas.	 For about 4  months	      from June to September in the year 1948 Mangal	      Sain served as a teacher in Arya Lower  Middle	      School,  Rohtak.	 In July  1948	Mangal	Sain	      submitted	  to  the'  Punjab  University	 his	      admission	 form for the  University  Prabhakar	      examination  which form was duly	attested  by	      Prof.   Kanshi  Ram Narang of  the  Government	      College  Rohtak.	Sometime in January 1949  he	      was  arrested in connection with the  Rastriya			    Swayam Sevak Sangh movement and was detained in	      Rohtak District Jail from 10th January,  1949,	      till 30th May, 1949.  In August 1949 he  again	      appeared in Prabhakar	      580	      examination and was placed in compartment,  he	      also appears to have organised Rastriya Swayam	      Sevak  Sangh  in the districts of	 Rohtak	 and	      Hissar during the years 1948-49 and he used to	      move about from place to place without  having	      any  fixed  place	 of  abode.   The   Tribunal	      further found that it was sometime in the	 end	      of  1949 or in January 1950 that	Mangal	Sain	      left India and went to Burma where his parents	      and other brothers were already residing.	  In	      that country he tried to secure permission  to	      stay there permanently, but the Government  of	      Burma did not agree and directed him to  leave	      that  country ; in this connection he  applied	      for  a writ to the Supreme Court of Burma	 but	      his  petition  was disallowed.   On  the	29th	      October, 1951, Mangal Sain deposited with	 the	      competent authority in Burma the	registration	      certificate   granted   to   him	 under	 the	      Registration  of Foreigners Act, 1948,  and  a	      few days later he came back to India and since	      then  he has been living in this	country	 and	      has  been	 organising  Rastriya  Swayam  Sevak	      Sangh movement in the districts of Hissar	 and	      Rohtak.	In  1953 he was again  arrested	 and	      detained in Rohtak jail as a detenue from	 the	      8th  February  to 8th May, 1953, when  be	 was	      transferred to Ambala jail ".On  these facts the Tribunal further held that it cannot  besaid  "	 that the respondent had an intention to  settle  inIndia  permanently  and	 that he had no	 intention  of	everleaving it ". Taking along with these facts the respondent'sdeclaration  in	 the  affidavit (Ex. 5) to  which  we  shallpresently  refer  the Tribunal further held that "  his	 owndeclaration  in	 the affidavit (Ex. 5) and  his	 conduct  ingoing  over to Burma and trying to settle there	 permanentlyfurnish convincing proof that all along he had the intentionto  follow his parents and other relations to Burma  and  tosettle	there permanently ". The Tribunal finally  concludedby  saying that ,it is also quite clear that in the case  ofthis respondent it cannot be said that he had no other	ideathan  to continue to be in India without looking forward  toany  event  certain or uncertain which might induce  him  tochange his residence581On  these  findings  of	 fact the  Tribunal  held  that	 therespondent  could  not be deemed to be a  citizen  of  Indiaunder Art. 6 of the Constitution.On these same primary facts mentioned above, Mr. Justice Duawho  delivered	the  leading  judgment	of  the	 High  Courtrecorded his conclusion thus:-	      "I  can draw but only one conclusion from	 the	      evidence on the record, that the appellant who	      had moved from his home district to  Jullunder	      had,  after  the 15th August, 1947,  no  other	      intention than of making the Dominion of India	      as  his place of abode.  On the  15th  August,	      1947, therefore the appellant's migration from	      Jhawarian	 to  the  territory  of	 India	 was	      clearly  complete, whatever doubts  there	 may	      have been before that date, though I would  be	      prepared	even to hold that he had moved	away	      from  his village in 1944 and had migrated  to	      the eastern districts of the Punjab"Mr. Justice Falshaw agreed with this conclusion.On  these  conclusions	the learned  Judges  held  that	 therespondent's  claim to be deemed a citizen of India  at	 thecommencement of the Constitution must succeed.The  main contention on behalf of the appellant is that	 theconclusion of the High Court, that when the respondent movedaway from his village in 1944 and that at any rate after the15th August, 1947, he had no other intention than of- makingthe Dominion of India his place of abode, was arbitrary.  Itwas also contended that in any case the migration under Art.6 of the Constitution has to take place after "the territoryof India " as contemplated in the Constitution had come intoexistence. Lastly it was contended, though  faintly,  thatthe  respondent	 had  not  in any  case	 complied  with	 therequirements of being ordinarily a resident in the territoryof India since the date of his migration.  The	respondent'scounsel	 besides  challenging the correctness of  the  abovecontention  further urged that the words " migrated  to	 theterritory  of  India  " in Art. 6 only	means  come  to	 theterritory of India " and does not mean come to the582territory  of  India  with  the	 intention  of	 permanentlyresiding there ".The extreme contention raised by Mr. Sastri on behalf of theappellant that migration under Art. 6 must take place  afterthe  territory	of  India  came	 into  existence  under	 theConstitution cannot be accepted.  It has to be noticed	thatArt. 6 deals with the question as to who shall be deemed  tobe   a	citizen	 of  India  at	the  commencement   of	 theConstitution.	That  itself  suggests, in  the	 absence  ofanything   to  indicate	 a  contrary  intention,  that	 themigration  which is made an essential requirement  for	thispurpose must have taken place before such commencement.	  Itis also worth noticing that cl. (b) of Art. 6 which mentionstwo  conditions, one of which must be satisfied in  additionto  birth  as  mentioned in el. (a) and	 "  migration  "  asmentioned  in the main portion of the Article being  proved,speaks	in its first sub-cl. of migration " before the	19thday of July 1948 " and in sub-cl. (ii) migration " after the19th day of July 1948 ". The second sub-cl requires that theperson	must  be  registered as a citizen  of  India  by  anofficer	 appointed in that behalf by the Government  of	 theDominion of India on an application made by him therefore tosuch  officer before the commencement of  the  Constitution.The proviso to that Article says that no person shall be  soregistered  unless he has been resident in the territory  ofIndia for at least six months immediately preceding the dateof  his application.  It is clear from this that the act  ofmigration in Art. 6 must take place before the	commencementof the Constitution.  It is clear therefore that "  migratedto  the territory of India " means " migrated " at any	timebefore	the commencement of the Constitution to a place	 nowin the territory of India.This brings us to the important question whether migrated tothe territory of India " means merely come to the  territoryof  India " or it means " come to the territory of India  toremain here " or in other words, " come to the territory  ofIndia  with  the intention of  residing	 here  permanently".There  can  be	no doubt that the word migrate	"  taken  byitself is583capable	 of the wider construction " come from one place  toanother	 "  whether or not with any intention  of  permanentresidence  in  the latter place.  It is	 beyond	 controversythat the word " migrate " is often used also in the narrowerconnotation  of " coming from one place to another with	 theintention  of  residing permanently in	the  latter  place".Webster's  Dictionary  (Second	Edition,  1937)	 gives	 thefollowing meaning of the word " migrate ":-" To go from	 oneplace  to  another; especially, to move	 from  one  country,region, or place of abode or sojourn to another, with a viewto residence; to move; as the Moors who migrated from Africato  Spain  ". The Corpus Juris Secundum	 published  in	1948gives the same meaning except that it also gives " to changeone's place of residence " as one of the meanings.  The word" Immigrate " which means " migrate into a country " and itsderivatives " Immigrant " and " Immigration " have  receivedjudicial  consideration in several Australian  and  Americancases, in connection with prosecutions for contravention  ofImmigration laws.The Courts in Australia, were of opinion, on a considerationof  the scheme and subject-matter of their laws in  questionthat  the word " Immigrant " in the  Immigrant	RegistrationAct, 1901, and in s. 51 of the Australian Constitution meansa  person  who	enters Australia whether  or  not  with	 theintention  of settling and residing there (Vide Chia Gee  v.Martin	(1)).  The American courts however took the view  inUnited States v. Burke (2), Moffitt v. United States (3) andUnited	States v. Atlantic Fruit Co. (4) on a  considerationof   the  purpose  and	scheme	of  the	 legislation,	that"Immigrant"  means a person who comes to the  United  Stateswith a view to reside there permanently.We have referred to these cases on the meaning of the word "Immigration to show that there can be no doubt that the wordmigrate" may have in some contexts the wider meaning "	comeor remove to a(1) (1905) 3 C.L.R. 649.(2) (1899) 99 Federal Reports 895.(3)  (1904) 128 Federal Reports 375.(4) (1914) 212 Federal Reports 711.75584place  without	an intention to reside permanently"  and  insome,  context	the narrower meaning " come or remove  to  aplace  with  the intention of residing	there  permanently".The fact that the Constitution-makers did not use the  words"  with the intention to reside permanently " in Art.  6  ishowever	 no  reason  to think that  the	 wider	meaning	 wasintended.  In deciding whether the word " migrate " was usedin  the	 wider	or the narrower sense, it  is  necessary  toconsider   carefully   the  purpose  and  scheme   of	thisconstitutional legislation.  The Constitution after definingthe  territory of India and making provisions as to  how  itcan  be added to or altered, in the four articles  containedin its first Chapter proceeds in the second Chapter to	dealwith  the subject of citizenship.  of the seven articles  inthis chapter the last Article, Art. 11, only saves expresslythe  right  of	Parliament to  make  provisions	 as  regardsacquisition  and  termination of citizenship and  all  othermatters relating to citizenship.  Of the other six articles,the  first, Art. 5, says who shall be citizens of  India  atthe  commencement of the Constitution; while Arts. 6  and  8lay  down  who	though not citizens under Art.	5  shall  bedeemed	to  be	citizens of India.  Art.  10  provides	thatonce  a	 person is a citizen of India or is deemed to  be  acitizen of India he shall continue to be a citizen of India,subject	 of course to the provisions of any law that may  bemade  by Parliament.  Art. 9 provides that if a	 person	 hasvoluntarily  acquired  citizenship of any foreign  State  heshall not be a citizen of India or deemed to be a citizen ofIndia.	Art. 7 also denies the right of citizenship to	somepersons	 who  would have otherwise been	 citizens  of  Indiaunder  Art.  5 or would be deemed to be	 citizens  of  Indiaunder Art. 6.The  primary  provision for citizenship of  India,  in	thisscheme	is  in Art. 5. That follows the	 usual	practice  ofinsisting on birth or domicile which shortly stated means  "residence  with	 the intention of living and  dying  in	 thecountry	 " as an essential requirement for citizenship;	 andconfers citizenship on a person fulfilling this	 requirementif  he	also satisfied another requirement  as	regards	 hisbirth within what585is now the territory of India or birth of any of his parentswithin	this area or ordinary residence in this area  for  acontinuous  period of five years immediately  preceding	 thecommencement  of  the Constitution'.  If there had  been  nodivision  of India and no portion of the old India had	beenlost this would have been sufficient, as regards  confermentof  citizenship apart from the special provision for  givingsuch  rights  to persons of Indian origin  residing  outsideIndia.	 But  part  of	what was India	as  defined  in	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935, had ceased to be  India	 andhad become Pakistan.  This gave rise to the serious  problemwhether or not to treat as citizens of India the hundreds ofthousands of persons who were of Indian origin-in the  sensethat  they  or any of their parents or any of  their  grand-parents	 had been born in India -but who, would not  becomecitizens  under	 Art.  5.  The	Constitution-makers  by	 theprovisions  of Art. 6 decided to treat as citizens  some  ofthese but not all.  Those who had not come to the new  Indiabefore the date of the commencement of the Constitution wereexcluded;  those  who  had so come  were  divided  into	 twocategories--those  who had come before the 19th July,  1948,and  those  who had come on or after the  19th	July,  1948.Persons in the first category had in order to be treated  ascitizens to satisfy the further requirement of " migration "whatever  that	meant,	and of	ordinary  residence  in	 theterritory  of India since they " migrated " to India;  whilethose  in  the second category had, in	addition  to  havingmigrated,  to  be  residents for not less  than	 six  monthspreceding  the date of the application for  registration  ascitizens  which application had to be filed before the	dateof  the	 commencement of the Constitution.   But  while	 theprimary	 provisions  in	 the  Constitution  as	regards	 thecitizenship for people born at a place now included in Indiaand  people whose parents were born at a place now in  Indiainsist	on  the	 requirement of	 intention  to	reside	herepermanently  by	 using the word " domicile ", Art.  6  whichunder the scheme of the Constitution deals with what may  becalled " secondary citizenship " and says about some personsthat586they  will  be	deemed to be citizens  of  India,  does	 notmention	 " domicile " as a requirement.	 Can it be that	 theConstitution-makers  thought  that  though in  the  case  ofpersons	 born in what has now become India or those  any  ofwhose  parents was born in what is now India as also in	 thecase of person who had been residing here for not less	thanfive years in what is now India, it was necessary to  insiston  domicile  before conferring citizenship,  that  was	 notnecessary  in  the case of persons whose parents or  any  ofWhose grand-parents had been born in what was formerly Indiabut  is	 not now India ? In our	 opinion  the  Constitution-makers could not have thought so.  They were aware that	 thegeneral rule in almost all the countries of the world was toinsist on birth or domicile as an essential prerequisite forcitizenship.   They  knew that in dealing  with	 a  somewhatsimilar	 problem as regards citizenship of persons born	 outof  what  was then the territory of Irish  Free	 State,	 theConstitution  of the Irish Free State had also	insisted  ondomicile  in  the  Irish Free State  as	 a  requirement	 forcitizenship.   There can be no conceivable reason for  theirnot making a similar insistence here as regards the  personswho  were born outside what is now India, or persons any  ofwhose  parents	or grand-parents were born  there.   Mentionmust  also  be made of the curious consequences	 that  wouldfollow	from a view that an intention to reside	 permanentlyin the territory of India and is not necessarily in Art.  6.Take  the case of two persons, one of whom was born in	whatis  now	 India	and has all along lived	 there	and  anotherperson who though born in what is now India went to live  inareas  now Pakistan and then moved back to areas in what  isnow India.  The first named person would have to satisfy therequirement   of  domicile  at	the  commencement   of	 theConstitution  before he is a citizen; but the second  personwould  not  have  to satisfy this condition.   It  would  beunreasonable to think that such a curious result could	havebeen intended by the Constitution-makers.For all these reasons it appears clear that when the framersof the Constitution used the words " migrated587to  the	 territory  of	India " they meant  "  come  to	 theterritory  of  India with the intention	 of  residing  therepermanently ". The only explanation of 'their not  expresslymentioning  "  domicile	 "  or the  "  intention  to  residepermanently " in Art. 6 seems to be that they were confidentthat  in  the  scheme  of  this	 Constitution  the  word  "Imigration " could only be interpreted to mean " come to	 thecountry with the intention of residing there permanently  ".It  is of interest to notice in this connection the  provisoto  Art. 7. That article provides in its first part  that  aperson	who would be a citizen of India or would  have	beendeemed	to be a citizen of India in Arts. 5 and 6 would	 notbe  deemed  to	be a citizen if he  has	 migrated  from	 theterritory  to  Pakistan after March 1,	1947.	The  provisodeals with some of these persons who after such migration toPakistan have returned to India.  It appears that when	thisreturn	is  under  a permit for	 resettlement  or  permanentreturn-that  is,  resettlement in India or return  to  Indiawith  the  intention  to reside	 here  permanently-the	mainprovisions  of Article 7 will not apply and for	 this  underArt. 6 of the Constitution such a person would be deemed  tohave migrated to India after the 19th July, 1948.  That	 thereturn to India of such migrant has to be under a permit forresettlement  or  permanent return in order  that  he  mightescape	the  loss  of citizenship is  a	 strong	 reason	 forthinking  that	in Art. 6 the intention to reside  in  Indiapermanently  is	 implicit  in  the use	of the	phrase	"Imigrated to the territory of India".It  may sometimes happen that when a person moves  from	 oneplace  to another or from one country to another he has,  atthe  point of time of moving, an intention to remain in	 thecountry where he moved only temporarily, but later on  formsthe  intention of residing there permanently.  There can  beno  doubt that when this happens, the person should at	thislater  point of time be held to have " come to	the  countrywith the intention of residing there permanently ". In otherwords,	though	at the point of time he moved into  the	 newplace  or new country he cannot be said to have migrated  tothis place or country588he  should  be held in law to have migrated  to	 this  laterplace  or country at the later point of time when  he  formsthe  intention of residing there permanently.  This view  oflaw  was  taken both by the Election Tribunal and  the	HighCourt and was not seriously disputed before us.The  Election Tribunal and the High Court therefore  rightlyaddressed  themselves to the question whether in  1944	whenMangal	Sain  first  came to Jullunder in what	is  now	 theterritory  of  India  from  his home  in  Jhawarian  now  inPakistan   he  had  the	 intention  of	residing  in   Indiapermanently and even if he at that point of time had no suchintention, whether after he had come in 1944 to what is	 nowthe  territory of India, he had at some later-point of	timeformed the intention of residing here permanently.  On	thisquestion,  as already indicated, the Election  Tribunal	 andthe  High  Court came to different conclusions.	  While	 theElection  Tribunal held that Mangal Sain had at no point  oftime  the  intention of residing in India  permanently,	 theHigh Court was prepared to hold that even when he moved fromhis  home in 1944 to the eastern districts of Punjab he	 hadthe  intention of residing there permanently, and held	thatat  least after August 15, 1947, he had no  other  intentionthan of making the Dominion of India his place of abode, andresiding   here	 permanently.	It  has	  been	 strenuouslycontended  before us that in coming to this  conclusion	 theHigh  Court has acted arbitrarily and has ignored  importantevidence  which,  it  is  said,	 showed	 clearly  that	 therespondent  had	 no  intention of  residing  permanently  inIndia.	In considering such an argument, it is proper for usto   bear  in  mind  the  provisions  of  s.  116B  of	 theRepresentation	of the People Act which lays down  that	 thedecision  of the High Court on appeal from an order  of	 theElection  Tribunal in an election petition shall be "  finaland  conclusive ". It has been pointed out in more than	 onecase by this Court, that while these provisions do Dot standin the way of this Court's interfering with the High Court'sdecision in a589fit case, it would be proper for us to bear these provisionsof  the	 Representation of the People Act in mind  when	 thecorrectness  of such a decision is challenged  before  thisCourt.	 It  is unnecessary for us to consider	whether	 theview  of the High Court that even in 1944 Mangal Sain  couldbe  said to have been migrated to the eastern  districts  ofPunjab can be successfully challenged or not.  Even assumingthat	conclusion is out of the way, the further  conclusionof  the High Court that having moved from his home  districtto Jullunder in 1944 Mangal Sain had after August 15,  1947,no other intention than of making the territory of India hisplace of abode would be sufficient to prove his migration tothe  territory of India from what is now Pakistan.  We	havebeen  taken through the materials on the record relevant  tothis question and we can see nothing that would justify	 ourinterference with the High Court's conclusion on this point.Much stress was laid by the appellant's counsel on the	factthat  Mangal Sain left Indian shores for Burma	in  January,1950, and after his arrival there made an application  unders.  7(1)  of  the Union Citizenship Act,  1948,	 (of  Burma)giving notice of his intention to apply for a certificate ofnaturalization and his statement therein that he intended toreside	permanently  within the Union  of  Burma.   Assuminghowever,  that in October, 1950, or even in  January'  1950,when he left for Burma, Mangal Sain had formed the intentionof  taking  up	his permanent residence in  Burma,  that  iswholly irrelevant to the question whether in 1947 he had theintention of residing permanently in India.  Learned counselfor  the  appellant also drew our attention to	a  statementmade in this very application that Mangal Sain had  returnedto Burma with his mother in 1947.  The High Court has after'considering this statement held that he had not so  returnedin  1947.  We see no reason to differ with this	 finding  ofthe  High  Court.  In our opinion, there is nothing  on	 therecord	to justify any doubt as regards the  correctness  ofthe High Court's decision that after August 15, 1947, MangalSain  who had earlier moved from a place now in Pakistan  toJullunder in India definitely, made up590his  mind to make India his permanent home.  Whether or	 notin  January, 1950, he changed that intention  is  irrelevantfor our purpose.Our conclusion therefore is that the High Court is right  inholding that Mangal Sain satisfies the first requirement  ofArt.  6 of the Constitution of " migration to the  territoryof  India from the territory now included in Pakistan ".  Itis  not	 disputed  and does not ever  appear  to  have	beendisputed  that Mangal Sain was born in India as	 defined  inthe  Government of India Act, 1935, and thus  satisfies	 therequirement of cl. (a) of Art. 6.There  can  be	no doubt also that since  the  date  of	 hismigration  which has for the present purpose to be taken  asAugust	15,  1947,  Mangal  Spain  has	been  St  ordinarilyresiding  in the territory of India ". Mr. Sastri  contendedthat  to satisfy the test of being " ordinarily resident  inthe territory of India since the date of his migration "  ithad to be shown that Mangal Sain was in India on January 26,1950.  We do not think that is required.  It is first to  be noticed  that  Art.	6 of the Constitution is  one  of  theArticles  which came into force on November 26,	 1949.	 Forapplying.  the	test of being "ordinarily  resident  in	 theterritory of India since the date of his migration ", it  isnecessary  therefore to consider the period up to  the	26thday  of November, 1949, from the date of migration.   It  isnot however even necessary that on the 26th day of November,1949,  or  immediately before that date he  must  have	beenresiding  in the territory of India.  What is  necessary  isthat  taking  the period beginning with the  date  on  whichmigration became complete and ending with the date  November26,  1949,  as	a whole, the person has	 been  "  ordinarilyresident  in the territory of India ". It is  not  necessarythat for every day of this period he should have resided  inIndia.	 In  the absence of the definition of  the  words  "ordinarily  resident " in the Constitution it is  reasonableto  take  the words to mean " resident	during	this  periodwithout	 any  serious break ". The materials on	 the  recordleave  no doubt that there was no break worth the.  name  inMangal Sain's residence in the591territory  of India from at least August 15, 1947, till	 the26th November, 1949.We have therefore come to the conclusion that the High Courtwas  right in sustaining Mangal Sain's claim to be deemed  acitizen	 of India under Art. 6 of the Constitution  and,  inthat view was also right in allowing his appeal and orderingthe dismissal of the Election Petition.In the view we have taken as regards Mangal Sain's claim  tocitizenship  under  Art.  6 of the Constitution	 it  is	 notnecessary to consider whether his claim to citizenship underArt. 5 of the Constitution was also good.We therefore dismiss the appeal with costs.Appeal dismissed.