PETITIONER:M/S.  NEW INDIA MOTORS (P) LTD.NEW DELHI	Vs.RESPONDENT:K. T. MORRISDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/03/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  875		  1960 SCR  (3) 350 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC1012	 (5) R	    1965 SC 745	 (17) R	    1966 SC 288	 (2) RF	    1970 SC 512	 (10)ACT:Industrial  Dispute--"Workmen  concerned in  such  dispute,"Meaning	 of--Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947),  asamended by Act 36 of 1956, ss. 33(1)(a), 33A.HEADNOTE:The  respondent workman was dismissed by his  employer,	 theappellant,  pending adjudication of  an:industrial  dispute,and  without  the  permission of  the  Industrial  Tribunal,relating  to the discharge of 7 other employees	 working  asapprentices  under the appellant.  The respondent  raised  adispute	 before the Industrial Tribunal under S. 33A of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947, and his case was that he	 wasconcerned  in the dispute relating to the said	7  employeesand gave evidence on their behalf and that his dismissal wassolely	due  to the interest he took in	 their	cause.	 TheTribunal  found in his favour and passed an award  directinghis   reinstatement.   The  appellant  contended  that	 therespondent was incompetent to raise the dispute under s. 33Aof  the Act.  The question for decision, therefore, was	 onerelating to the construction of s. 33(1)(a) of the Act:351Held,  that the expression " workmen concerned in such	dis-pute  " occurring in s. 33(1)(a) of the Industrial  DisputesAct 1947, as amended by Act 36 of 1956, includes not  merelysuch  workmen as are directly or immediately concerned	withthe  dispute, but also those on whose behalf the dispute  israised as well as those who, when the award is made, will bebound by it.Eastern	 Plywood  Mfg.	Co. Ltd. v.  Eastern   Plywood	Mfg.Workers'  Union, (1952) L.A.C. 103 and Newtone Studios	Ltd.v. Ethirajula (T.R.), (1958) 1 L.L.J. 63, approved.The New jehangir Vakil Mills Ltd., Bhavnagar v. N. L. Vyas &Others, A.I.R. 1959 BOM. 248, disapproved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 124 of 1959.Appeal	by  special leave from the Award dated	February  8,1957, of the Additional Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in Misc.I. D. Case No. 422 of 1956.Jawala	Prasad	Chopra	and  J.	 K.  Haranandani,  for	 theappellants.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. J. Umrigar,M.  K.	Ramamurthi, V. A. Seyid Muhamad and  M.	 R.  KrishnaPillai, for the respondent.1960.  March 22.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal by special leave is  directedagainst	 the  order  passed  by	 the  Additional  IndustrialTribunal,  Delhi, directing the appellant, M/s.	  New  IndiaMotors Private Ltd., to reinstate its former employee, K. T.Morris,	 the  respondent,  in his  original  post  as  fieldservice	 representative and to pay him his back	 wages	fromthe   date   of	 his  dismissal	 till  the   date   of	 hisreinstatement.	 This  award has been made  on	a  complaintfiled  by the respondent against the appellant under s.	 33Aof  the	 Industrial Disputes Act XIV  of  1947	(hereinaftercalled	the  Act).   It	 appears  that	before	joining	 theappellant  the	respondent  was	 working  with	a  firm	  inCalcutta; prior to that he was field service  representativeof  M/s.  Premier Automobiles Ltd., Bombay.  The  respondentjoined the services of the appellant sometime in May 1954 asWorks  Manager.	  Before  he  joined  the  services  of	 theappellant  he had been told by the appellant by	 its  letterdated March 27, 1954, that the appellant would be willing topay  him  Rs.  350 per month and something more	 by  way  ofcertain	 percentage on business.  He was, however, asked  tointerview the352appellant;  an	interview followed and	the  respondent	 wasgiven  a  letter  of appointment on May 6,  1954.   By	thisletter	 he  was  appointed  as	 Workshop  Manager  in	 theappellant's  firm on three months' probation subject to	 theterms and conditions specified in the letter of	 appointment(Ex.   W-2).   The respondent continued in  this  post	tillFebruary  28, 1955, when he was given the assignment of	 theappellant's  field service organiser with effect from  March1, 1955.  A letter of appointment given to him on 28-2- 1955set  forth the terms and conditions of his  new	 assignment.It  appears  that on April 18, 1956, the management  of	 theappellant  called  for an explanation of the  respondent  inrespect of several complaints.	An explanation was given  bythe  respondent.   It  was,  however,  followed	 by  anothercommunication  from the appellant to the respondent  settingforth  specific	 instances of the respondent's	conduct	 forwhich  explanation  was	 demanded.   The  respondent   againexplained  and disputed the correctness of the charges.	  OnJune 30, 1956, the respondent's services were terminated  onthe  ground  that the appellant had decided to	abolish	 thepost  of  field service representative.	 It  is	 this  orderwhich  gave rise to the respondent's complaint under s.	 33Aof the Act.  The complaint was filed on July 18, 1956.	 Therespondent  invoked s. 33A because his case was that at	 thetime when his services were terminated an industrial disputewas pending between the appellant and 7 of its employees andthe respondent was one of the workmen concerned in the	saidindustrial   dispute.	The  said  industrial  dispute	 hadreference  to the termination of the services of the said  7employees   who	  were	working	 with	the   appellant	  asapprentices.   On  their behalf it was	alleged	 that  theirtermination of service was improper and illegal and that wasreferred to the industrial tribunal for its adjudication  onAugust	20, 1955.  The said dispute was finally	 decided  onJanuary 2, 1957.  With the merits of the said dispute or thedecision thereof we are not concerned in the present appeal.According  to  the  respondent,	 since	he  was	 a   workmanconcerned in the said dispute s. 33(1)(a) applied and it wasnot open to the appellant to terminate his353services save with the express permission in writing of	 theauthority before which the said dispute was pending.  It wason this basis that he made his complaint under s. 33A of theAct.Before the tribunal the appellant urged that the  respondentwas not a workman as defined by the Act, and on the'  meritsit was contended that the appellant had to abolish the	postof the field service organiser owing to the fact that a partof the agency work of the appellant had been lost to it.  Onthe  other  hand,  the respondent contended that  he  was  aworkman	 under	the Act and the plea made by  the  appellantabout  the  necessity to abolish his post was not  true	 andgenuine.    His	 grievance  was	 that  his   services	wereterminated  solely  because  he had taken  interest  in	 thecomplaint  of the 7 apprentices which had given rise to	 themain  industrial dispute and had in fact given	evidence  inthe  said  dispute on behalf of the said  apprentices.	 Thetribunal  has found that the respondent is a  workman  underthe  Act,  that	 there	was  no	 evidence  to  justify	 theappellant's  contention that it had become necessary for  itto  abolish  the respondent's post, and that it	 did  appearthat   the  respondent	had  been  discharged  because	 theappellant   disapproved	 of  the  respondent's	conduct	  insupporting the 7 apprentices in the main industrial dispute.As  a result of these findings the tribunal has ordered	 theappellant to reinstate the respondent.The  question as to whether the respondent is a	 workman  asdefined by s. 2(s) of the Act is a question of fact and	 thefinding recorded by the tribunal on the said question, afterconsidering  the relevant evidence adduced by  the  parties,cannot	be successfully challenged before us in the  presentappeal.	 The respondent has given evidence as to the  natureof  the	 work  he  was	required  to  do  as  field  serviceorganiser.  The letter of appointment issued to him in	thatbehalf	expressly required, inter alia, that the  respondenthad,  if  need	be,  to check up  and  carry  out  necessaryadjustments  and  repairs  of  the  vehicles  sold  by	 theappellant  to  its  customers and to  obtain  signatures  ofresponsible persons on the satisfaction354forms which had been provided to him.  The respondent  sworethat  he  looked  after	 the working  of  the  workshop	 andassisted  the  mechanics  and  others  in  their  jobs.	  Heattended  to complicated work himself and made	the  workmenacquainted with Miller's special tools and equipment  neededfor repairs and servicing of cars. He denied the  suggestionthat  he  was a member of the supervisory  staff.   On	thisevidence  the  tribunal	 has  based  its  finding  that	 therespondent was a workman under s. 2(s), and we see no reasonto interfere with it.Then, as to the appellant's case that it had to abolish	 thepost  of the respondent as it had lost the agency of  DeSotocars from Premier Automobiles, there is no reliable evidenceto  show when this agency was actually lost.   Besides,	 thefact that the appellant has appointed a Technical Supervisorafter  discharging  the	 respondent  is	 also  not   withoutsignificance.  Furthermore, the appellant is still the agentfor Plymouth and Jeeps and the tribunal is right when it hasfound  that it still needed a field representative  to	lookafter  servicing of sold cars at outside stations.   On	 theother  hand,  the evidence of the respondent  clearly  showsthat  he  supported the case of the 7 apprentices  and	thatprovoked  the appellant to take the step of terminating	 hisservices.   The	 process  of finding  fault  with  his	workappears to have commenced after the appellant disapproved ofthe respondent's conduct in that behalf.  We are, therefore,satisfied  that	 the  tribunal was right in  coming  to	 theconclusion that the dismissal of the respondent is not	sup-ported	on any reasonable ground, and in fact is due to	 theappellant's indignation at the conduct of the respondent  inthe main industrial dispute between the appellant and its  7employees.   If	 that be the true  position  the  industrialtribunal  was  justified in treating the  dismissal  of	 therespondent as mala fide.It has, however, been urged before us by the appellant	thatthe  complaint	made by the respondent under s. 33A  is	 notcompetent.  It is common ground that a complaint can be madeunder s. 33A only if s. 33 has been contravened, and so	 theappellant's  argument  is that B. 33(1)(a)  is	inapplicablebecause the respondent355was not a workman concerned in the main industrial  dispute,and  as such his dismissal cannot be said to contravene	 theprovisions of the said section.	 Indeed the principal  pointurged  before  us  by  the appellant is	 in  regard  to	 theconstruction of s. 33(1)(a) of the Act.	 Was the  respondenta workman concerned with the main industrial dispute ?	Thatis the point of law raised for our decision and its decisiondepends upon the construction of the relevant words used  ins. 33(1)(a).Section 33(1)(a) as it stood prior to the amendment of	1956provided,  inter  alia,	 that during  the  pendency  of	 anyproceedings  before a tribunal, no employer shall  alter  tothe  prejudice of the workmen concerned in the said  disputethe  conditions	 of service applicable to  them	 immediatelybefore	the commencement of the said proceedings, save	withthe express permission in writing of the tribunal.   Section33  has	 been modified from time to time and its  scope	 hasbeen  finally  limited by the amendment made by	 Act  36  of1956.	With the said amendments we are, however,  not	con-cerned.	  The,	expression " the workmen concerned  in	suchdispute " which occurred in the earlier section has not beenmodified and the construction which we would place upon	 thesaid expression under the unamended section would govern theconstruction  of  the said expression even  in	the  amendedsection.   What does the expression " workmen  concerned  insuch  dispute " mean ? The appellant contends that the	maindispute	 was  in regard to the discharge  of  7	 apprenticesemployed  by  the  appellant,  and it is  only	the  said  7apprentices  who  were concerned in the said  dispute.	 Therespondent was not concerned in the said dispute, and so thetermination of his services cannot attract the provisions ofs.  33(1)(a).	Prima  facie the  argument  that  "  workmenconcerned in such dispute " should be limited to the workmendirectly  or  actually	concerned in  such  dispute  appearsplausible,  but if we examine the scheme of the Act and	 theeffect of its material and relevant provisions this  limitedconstruction of the clause in question cannot be accepted,356Let  us	 first	consider the definition	 of  the  industrialdispute	 prescribed by s. 2(k).	 It means, inter  alia,	 anydispute or difference between employers and workmen which isconnected  with	 the employment or  non-employment,  or	 theterms  of employment, or with the conditions of	 labour,  ofany  person.   It is well settled that	before	any  disputebetween	 the employer and his employee or employees  can  besaid  to be an industrial dispute under the Act it  must  besponsored by a number of workmen or by a union	representingthem.  It is not necessary that the number of workmen of theunion  that  sponsors  the  dispute  should  represent	 themajority of workmen.  Even so, an individual dispute  cannotbecome	an  industrial	dispute	 at  the  instance  of	 theaggrieved  individual himself It must be a  dispute  betweenthe  employer  on  the one hand	 and  his  employees  actingcollectively  on  the other.  This essential  nature  of  anindustrial dispute must be borne in mind in interpreting thematerial clause in s. 33(1)(a).Section 18 of the Act is also relevant for this purpose.  Itdeals  with  persons on whom awards  are  binding.   Section18(3)  provides,  inter alia, that an award  of	 a  tribunalwhich  has  become enforceable shall be binding on  (a)	 allparties	 to  the industrial dispute, (b) all  other  partiessummoned  to  appear in the proceedings as  parties  to	 thedispute	 unless the tribunal records the opinion  that	theywere so summoned without proper cause, and (c) where a partyreferred to in cl. (a) or cl. (b) is composed of workmen allpersons	 who were employed in the establishment or  part  ofthe establishment, as the case may be, to which the  disputerelates	 on  the date of the dispute, and  all	persons	 whosubsequently become employed in that establishment or  part.It  is	thus clear that the award passed  in  an  industrialdispute	 raised even by a minority union binds not only	 theparties	  to   the  dispute  but  all	employees   in	 theestablishment or part of the establishment, as the case	 maybe,  at the date of the dispute and even those who may	jointhe establishment or part subsequently.	 Thus the circle  ofpersons	 bound	by  the award is very much  wider  than	 theparties to the industrial dispute.  This aspect of the357matter is also relevant in construing the material words  ins. 33(1)(a).In this connection the object of s. 33 must also be borne inmind.	It is plain that by enacting s. 33  the	 Legislaturewanted	to  ensure a fair and satisfactory  enquiry  of	 theindustrial dispute undisturbed by any action on the part  ofthe employer or the employee which would create fresh  causefor  disharmony	 between them.	During the  pendency  of  anindustrial  dispute status quo should be maintained  and  nofurther	 element  of discord  should  be  introduced.	Thatbeing  the  object of s. 33 the narrow construction  of	 thematerial words used in s. 33(1)(a) would tend to defeat	 thesaid  object.  If it is held that the workmen  concerned  inthe  dispute are only those who are directly or	 immediatelyconcerned  with	 the dispute it would leave liberty  to	 theemployer to alter the terms and conditions of the  remainingworkmen	  and  that  would  inevitably	 introduce   furthercomplications  which it is intended to avoid.  Similarly  itwould leave liberty to the other employees to raise disputesand  that  again  is not desirable.  That is  why  the	mainobject	underlying  s. 33 is inconsistent  with	 the  narrowconstruction  sought  to be placed by the appellant  on	 thematerial words used in s. 33(1)(a).Even as a matter of construction pure and simple there is nojustification  for  assuming that the workmen  concerned  insuch  disputes	must  be  workmen  directly  or	 immediatelyconcerned  in  the  said  disputes.   We  do'  not  see	 anyjustification for adding the further qualification of director   immediate	 concern  which	 the   narrow	constructionnecessarily  assumes.	In dealing with the question  as  towhich  workmen can be said to be concerned in an  industrialdispute we have to bear in mind the essential condition	 forthe  raising  of  an industrial dispute itself,	 and  if  anindustrial dispute can be raised only by a group of  workmenacting on their own or through their union then it would  bedifficult  to  resist  the conclusion  that  all  those	 whosponsored  the	dispute	 are concerned in it.	As  we	havealready pointed out this construction is harmonious with thedefinition  prescribed	by s. 2(s) and with  the  provisionscontained in s. 18 of the Act.	Therefore,46358we  are not prepared to hold that the expression  "  workmenconcerned  in such dispute " can be limited only to such  ofthe  workmen who are directly concerned with the dispute  inquestion.   In	our opinion, that  expression  includes	 allworkmen on whose behalf the dispute has been raised as	wellas  those who would be bound by the award which may be	madein the said dispute.It appears that the construction of the relevant clause	 hadgiven rise to a divergence of opinion in industrial  courts,but  it	 may be stated that on the whole  the  consensus  ofopinion appears to be in favour of the construction which weare  putting  on  the  said  clause.   In  Eastern   PlywoodManufacturing  Co.  Ltd. v.  Eastern  Plywood  ManufacturingWorkers'  Union (1) the appellate tribunal has	referred  tothe  said  conflict of views and has. held that	 the  narrowconstruction of the clause is not justified.  The High Courtof Madras appears to have taken the same view (Vide: NewtoneStudios Ltd. v. Ethirajulu (T.R.) (2) ). On the other  hand,in The New Jehangir Vakil Mills Ltd., Bhavnagar v. N.L. Vyas&  Ors.	 (3), the Bombay High Court has adopted	 the  narrowconstruction  ;	 but  for  reasons  which  we  have  alreadyexplained we must hold that the Bombay view is not justifiedon  a  fair  and reasonable  construction  of  the  relevantclause.In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed withcosts.Appeal dismissed,.