PETITIONER:M/s.  ANWARKHAN MAHBOOB CO.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY (NOW MAHARASHTRA) AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/09/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASDAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  213		  1961 SCR  (1) 709 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC 562	 (8) RF	    1963 SC 906	 (20) RF	    1977 SC 879	 (27) R	    1979 SC1721	 (7) RF	    1980 SC1227	 (6) R	    1986 SC1085	 (9) R	    1987 SC1885	 (8)ACT:Purchase   Tax--If  leviable  on  goods	  not	specificallymentioned as taxable but come under the general	 description"all  goods other than those specified "-Conversion  of	 onecommodity into another commerciallydifferent article-Ifamounts to consumption-Place of purchasefor the purposeof taxation-Constitution of India, Art. 19 (f) &  (g)286-Bombay	Sales Tax Act, 1953 (Bom. Act III of 1953),  s.	 10,Schedule B, Entry 80.HEADNOTE:The  petitioner	 Company carrying on the business  of  manu-facturing  bidis and having its head office at	Jabalpur  inthe  State  of	Madhya Pradesh	made  certain  purchases  oftobacco	 in  the  State of Bombay.  The	 Sales	Tax  Officerassessed  the  petitioner  to  a  purchase  tax	 under	 theprovisions   of	 the  Bombay  Sales  Tax  Act,	1953.	 Thepetitioner contested the assessment of710purchase tax on the grounds that those transactions and pur-chases	were  "	 Outside the State of Bombay  "	 within	 themeaning of Art. 286(1)(a) of the Constitution read with	 theExplanation,  that  the provisions of the Bombay  Sales	 TaxAct,  1953,  did  not  authorise  the  imposition,  levy  orcollection  of	any  purchase tax  on  the  transactions  inquestion and that the transactions took place in the  courseof inter State trade and commerce.  The petitioner's  appealto  the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax was  dismissed	 andthen  the  present  petition  for  writs  of  mandamus	 andcertiorari  was filed in the Supreme Court.  The  petitionercontended  that	 the  Bombay Sales Tax Act,  1953,  did	 notauthorise  the imposition of a tax on the purchase of  bidi-tobacco which was not one of the goods specified in column 4of  Schedule  B	 of the said Act.   The	 petitioner  furthercontended  that	 the purchased tobacco was delivered  to  itwithin	the  State  of	Bombay as a  direct  result  of	 thepurchase  but  it was intended to be sent to  the  State  ofMadhya Pradesh to be manufactured into bidis at that  place.The  only  thing which was done in the Bombay State  was  toremove the stem and dust from the tobacco which process	 didneither amount to " consumption " of tobacco as contemplatedunder  the Explanation to Art. 286 of the  Constitution	 nordid it convert the tobacco which was sent to the Head Officeinto an article " commercially different " from the  tobaccopurchased from the cultivators.	 In their counter  affidavitthe  respondents averred that the raw tobacco was  convertedinto  bidi  pattis before it was sent outside  Bombay  Stateboth  of which were commercially different articles and	 themarket	value of which was also different.  These  avermentswere not controverted by the petitioner.Held, that the words " all goods other than those  specifiedfrom time to time in Schedule A and in the preceding entries"  in  entry 8o of Schedule B of the Bombay Sales  Tax	Act,1953, amounted to a specification of goods for the  purposesof  s.	lo of the Act and as bidi tobacco purchased  by	 thepetitioner  was not within Schedule A or any of the  earlierentries	 in  Schedule B purchase tax at the  rate  mentionedagainst entry 8o was leviable under s. 1o of the Act.Whenever a commodity was so dealt with as to change it	intoanother	 commercial commodity there was consumption  of	 thefirst  commodity  within the meaning of the  Explanation  toArt. 286 of the Constitution.State  of  Travancore-Cochin v. Shanmugha Vilas	 Cashew	 NutFactory, [1954] S.C.R. 53, followed.The delivery of tobacco in Bombay State for changing it intobidi patti which is a commercially different article amount-ed  to	delivery  for the purpose  of  consumption  and	 thepurchase  fell within the meaning of Art. 286(i)(a)  of	 theConstitution and took place inside tile Bombay State.			    711JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 125 of 1959.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.G.S.  Pathak,  A. P. Sen and J. B.  Dadachanji,	 for  thePetitioners.H. J. Umrigar and T. M. Sen, for the Respondents.1960.	September  20.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byDAs  GUPTA  J.-In  this	 petition  under  Art.	32  of	 theConstitution the petitioner, a partnership firm carrying  onthe  business  of manufacture of bidis and having  its	headoffice	at  Jabalpur  within the  State	 of  Madhya  Pradeshcomplain that its fundamental rights under Art. 19(1)(f) and(g)  of the Constitution have been violated by	the  illegalimposition of a purchase tax on certain purchases of tobaccomade  by  it in the State of Bombay.  It  appears  that	 theSales  Tax  Officer,  Baroda, made an  order  assessing	 thepetitioner to a purchase tax under s. 14, sub-s. (6), of theBombay	Sales Tax Act, 1953 (Bom.  Act III of 1953) for	 theperiod April 1, 1954 to September 29, 1955.  The  petitionercontends that this assessment was illegal inasmuch as  thesetransactions  are purchases " outside the State of Bombay  "within	the  meaning of Art. 286(1)(a) of  the	Constitutionread   with   the  Explanation	and   also   because   thesetransactions  took place in the course of inter-State  tradeand commerce within the meaning of Art. 286(2) of the  Cons-titution.   It	was also urged that the	 provisions  of	 theBombay Sales Tax Act, 1953, do not authorise the imposition,levy  or collection of any purchase tax on the	transactionsin question.In  appears that against this assessment order made  by	 theSales  Tax  Officer  on October	 18,  1955,  the  petitionerpreferred an appeal to the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax.This  officer set aside the order of the Sales	Tax  Officerimposing  a penalty under s. 16(4) but dismissed the  appealagainst the order of assessment to tax.	 The order in appealwas made on91712November  26,  1957.   The present petition  was.  filed  onAugust 4, 1958, praying for a writ in the nature of mandamusor  any	 other appropriate direction or	 order	against	 therespondents-The State of Bombay, The Collector of Sales Tax,State  of  Bombay  The Sales Tax  Officer,  Baroda  and	 theAssistant  Collector of Sales Tax, Northern Division,  RangeIII, Baroda-preventing them from enforcing the provisions of the  BombaySales Tax Act against the petitioner on the transactions  inquestion,  for	a  writ	 in the	 nature	 of  certiorari	 forquashing  the proceedings taken against the  petitioner	 andthe  orders of assessment made by the Sales Tax Officer	 andthe order in appeal by the Assistant Collector of Sales	 Taxand  for a declaration that the Act does not  authorise	 theimposition, levy or collection of tax on the transactions inquestion.It  will  be convenient to consider first  the	petitioner'scontention  that  the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953,  does	 notauthorise  the imposition of a tax on the purchase of  bidi-tobacco.  The relevant portion of s.	10(1) which providesfor the levy of a purchase tax is in these words :-"there	shall  be levied a purchase tax on the	turnover  ofpurchase of goods specified in column 1 of Schedule B at therates,	if any specified against such goods in column  4  ofthe said schedule......."The  petitioner's contention is that bidi-tobacco which	 waspurchased by it is not one of the goods specified in  Column4 of the said schedule.	 Turing to Schedule B we find  thereare  80 entries in the first column.  Against each of  theseentries the second column of the schedule mentions the ratesof  sales  tax	leviable under s. 8 of the  Act:  the  thirdcolumn mentions the rate of general sales tax leviable unders. 9, while the fourth column which is the last, column men-tions the rate of purchase tax.	 While the entries from 1 to79  mention specific articles, entry 80 as it  stood  beforeits amendment in 1957 was in these words:-" All goods  otherthan those specified from time to time in Schedule A and  inthe preceding entries." (An amendment by the Bombay Act,  71of			    7131958,  added  the words " and sec. 7A " after  the  words  "Schedule  A  ").  The question is whether these	 words	"allgoods  other  than  those specified from  time	to  time  inSchedule-A  and	 in  the preceding entries  "  amount  to  aspecification of goods for the purpose of s. 10.  On  behalfof the petitioner Mr. Pathak contends that only the  mentionof specific goods can amount to specification and mention ofgoods  in  such general language as " all goods	 other	thanthose  specified from time to time in Schedule A and in	 thepreceding entries " cannot be said to be a specification  ofgoods.	 We are unable to accept this argument. While it  istrue that mention of specific goods is specification for thepurpose	 of s. 10 as also for the purpose of ss. 8 and 9  ofthe Act, we see no reason to think that mention of goods  ina general way as " all goods other than those specified fromtime to time in Schedule A and in the preceding entries " ofSchedule B itself is not a specification.  We are of opinionthat the entry 80 in Schedule B is a specification of  goodswithin	the meaning of s. 10 and as bidi-tobacco  which	 thepetitioner purchased is not within either Schedule A or	 anyof the earlier entries in Schedule B, purchase tax under  S.10  is	leviable on these purchases, at the  rate  mentionedagainst Entry 80.This brings us to the petitioner's main contention that	 thepurchases  took	 place	outside the State  of  Bombay.	 Thecontention as stated in para. 11 of the petition is that thepurchases would be. deemed to have taken place in the  Stateof  Madhya  Pradesh,  where the tobacco	 was  delivered	 forconsumption.   At the hearing, however, it was not  disputedthat  the  tobacco  was delivered to  the  Company's  RanoliBranch	within the State of Bombay which made the  purchase.The  despatch  by the Ranoli Branch to	the  company's	headoffice	at Jabalpur is not a delivery as a direct result  ofthe sale.It  has	 been  urged  however that  even  though  there	 wasdelivery  in  Bombay State, that delivery was  not  for	 thepurpose	 of  consumption within Bombay State;  and  so,	 theExplanation to Art. 286 (1)(a) does not come into operation.714The  sales tax authorities have proceeded on the basis	thatas  a direct result of the purchase goods were delivered  inthe  State of Bombay for the purpose of consumption  in	 theState of Bombay.  Unless that view is shown to be wrong, thepurchase  must be held to have taken place within the  Stateof Bombay and it will be unnecessary to consider the  largerquestion whether even if the Explanation be not	 applicable,Bombay State is entitled to tax.The  definite case of the petitioner is that  the  purchasedtobacco	 is delivered to it within the State of Bombay as  adirect	result of the purchase.	 The further  question	thathas been raised is whether such delivery was for the purposeof  consumption	 in the State of Bombay.  On behalf  of	 thepetitioner  it	was contended that after its  delivery,	 thetobacco	 was  intended	to be sent to the  State  of  MadhyaPradesh	 to be manufactured into bidis at that	place.	 Allthat  used to be done to the purchased tobacco in the  Stateof  Bombay was to have the stems and dust removed  from	 thetobacco.  Such removal of the waste material, like stems andearth,	it  is	urged, does not	 amount	 to  consumption  oftobacco.   It  is further stated that the tobacco  which  isdespatched  to	the head office after removal of  the  wastematerial is not an article Cc commercially different "	fromthe   tobacco  purchased  from	the  cultivators.   In	 therespondents'  counter  affidavit  it is stated	that  "	 thepetitioners   after   purchasing  raw	tobacco	  from	 thecultivators in the State of Bombay, subject the raw  tobaccoso purchased to process leading to its conversion into	bidipattis	 for   immediate   use	 in   the   manufacture	  ofbidis...............  that marketable value of	raw  tobaccoand bidi pattis differs and that both these are commerciallydifferent  articles...............  There  was	no   furtheraffidavit filed on behalf of the petitioner to traverse	 theaverments  of the respondents that the raw tobacco  is	con-verted	into  bidi  patti before it  is	 despatched  outsideBombay	State and that the market value of raw	tobacco	 andbidi  patti  differs.	Mr. Pathak also con.  ceded  at	 thehearing the correctness of the statement that anybody  couldgo to the market to purchase the			    715article known as raw tobacco or Akho Bhuko and that he couldalso go and purchase from the market the article known as  "bidi  Patti  ". That itself is sufficient-  proof  that	 rawtobacco and bidi Patti are distinct and different commercialarticles.It  is	in  the background of these facts that	we  have  toconsider  the question whether tobacco was delivered in	 theState of Bombay for consumption in that State.	In answeringthat  question it is unnecessary and indeed  inexpedient  toattempt an exhaustive definition of the word " consumption "as used in the explanation to Art. 286 of the  Constitution.The act, of consumption with which people are most  familiaroccurs when they eat, or drink or smoke.  Thus, we speak  ofpeople consuming bread, or fish or meat or vegetables,	whenthey  eat  these  articles  of	food;  we  speak  of  peopleConsuming  tea or coffee or water or wine, when	 they  drinkthese  articles;  we  speak of people  consuming  cigars  orcigarettes or bidis, when they smoke these.  The  productionof wealth, as economists put it, consists in the creation of"  utilities  ". Consumption consists in the act  of  takingsuch  advantage of the commodities and services produced  asconstitutes  the " utilization " thereof.  For	each  commo-dity, there is ordinarily what is generally considered to bethe  final act of consumption.	For some commodities,  theremay  be even more than one kind of final consumption.	Thusgrapes may be " finally consumed " by eating them as fruits;they may also be consumed by drinking the wine prepared from" grapes ". Again, the final act of consumption may in	somecases be spread over a considerable period of time.   Books,articles  of  furniture,  paintings  may  be  mentioned	  asexamples.  It may even happen in such cases, that after	 oneconsumer has performed part of the final act of consumption,another	 portion  of' the final act of	consumption  may  beperformed   by	 his  heir   or	  successor-in-interest,   atransferee,  or	 even  one who has  obtained  possession  bywrongful  means.   But	the  fact that	there  is  for	eachcommodity what may be Considered ordinarily to be the  finalact  of	 consumption,  should not make	us  forget  that  inreaching716the stage at which this final act of consumption takes placethe   commodity	 may  pass  through  different	 stages	  ofproduction and for such different stages, there would  existone  or	 more intermediate acts of consumption.	  Thus,	 thefinal  act of consumption of cotton may be considered to  bethe  use as wearing apparel of the cloth produced  from	 it.But  before cotton has become a wearing apparel, it  passes,through the hands of different producers, each of whom	addssome  utility to the commodity received by him.	  There	 'isfirst  the act of ginning ; ginned cotton is spun into	yarnby  the	 spinner; the spun yarn is woven into cloth  by	 theweaver; the woven cloth is made into wearing apparel by	 thetailor.	  At  each of these stages  distinct  utilities	 areproduced and what is produced is at the next stage consumed.It  is usual, and correct to speak of raw cotton being	con-sumed  in  ginning;  of	 ginned	 cotton	 being	consumed  inspinning;  of spun yarn being consumed in weaving; of  wovencloth being consumed in the making of wearing apparel.	 Thefinal product-the wearing apparel-is ultimately consumed  bymen,  women  and  children in using it	a;  dress.   In	 theabsence of any words to limit the connotation of the word  "consumption  " to the final act of Consumption, it  will  beproper	to think that the Constitution-makers used the	wordto connote any kind of user which is ordinarily spoken of asconsumption of the particular commodity.Reverting  to  the instance of cotton, mentioned  above,  itwill be proper to hold that when raw cotton is delivered  inState A for being ginned in that State., it is delivered forconsumption in State A ; when ginned cotton is delivered  inState  B  for  being spun into yarn,  it  is  delivered	 forconsumption  in State B ; when yarn is delivered in State  Cfor  being woven into cloth in that State, it  is  deliveredfor consumption in State C; when woven cloth is delivered inState D for being made by tailor in that State into  wearingapparel, there is delivery of cloth for consumption in StateD; and finally when, wearing apparel is delivered in State Efor being sold as dress			    717in  that State, it is delivery of wearing apparel  for	con-sumption   in  State  E.  Except  at  the  final  stage	  ofconsumption  which consists in using the finished  commodityas  an	article of clothing, there will be noticed  at	eachstage  of  production  the  bringing  into  existence  of  acommercial commodity different from what was received by theproducers.  This conversion of a commodity into a  differentcommercial commodity by subjecting it to some processing, isconsumption with. in the meaning of the Explanation to	Art.286  no	 less than the final act of user  when	no  distinctcommodity  is  being  brought into existence  but  what	 wasbrought	 into existence is being used up.  At one  stage  ofthe  argument  what Mr. Pathak appeared to insist  was	thatthere  must  be destruction of the substance  of  the  thingbefore the thing can be said to be consumed.  That takes  usnowhere, because we have still to find out what is meant  bydestruction of the substance.  It may well be said that whena  commodity  is  converted into  a  commercially  differentcommodity  its former identity is destroyed and so there  isdestruction of the substance, to satisfy the test  suggestedby the learned counsel.	 We think it unnecessary however  toenter  into a discussion of what amounts to " destruction  "as  even without deciding, whether there was destruction  ornot, we think it proper and reasonable to say that  whenevera  commodity is so dealt with as to change it  into  anothercommercial  commodity  there  is consumption  of  the  firstcommodity within the meaning of the Explanation to Art. 286.This aspect of consumption was pointed out by Das, J. (as hethen was), in State of Travancore-Cochin v. Shanmugha  VilasCashew	Nut  Factory  (1)  at p. 113  of  the  Report.	 Thepurchase  there	 was  of raw cashew  nuts.   Discussing	 thequestion  whether the delivery of these nuts  in  Travancorewas  for the purpose of consumption in that State, Das,	 J.,observed:---" The raw cashew-nuts, after they reach the respondents, areput through a process and new articles of commerce,  namely,cashew-nut oil	and edible cashew-nut kernels, are obtained.It follows,(1)  [1954) S.C.R. 53.718therefore,  that  the  raw cashew-nut  is  consumed  by	 therespondents in the sense I have mentioned".Das,  J., here proceeded on the view that using a  commodityso as to turn it into a different commercial article amountsto  consumption,  within the meaning of the  Explanation  toArt. 286(1) (a)-a view which he had earlier indicated at  p.110 of the Report.  We are not aware of any case where	suchuse  of	 a  commodity  has  been  held	not  to	 amount	  toconsumption.It  must  therefore be held on the facts of this  case	thatwhen  tobacco was delivered in the-State of Bombay  for	 thepurpose	 of  changing  it  into	 a  commercially   differentarticle,  viz., bidi patti the delivery was for the  purposeof  consumption.  The purchases in this case therefore	fallwithin the meaning of Explanation to Art. 286(1)(a) and mustbe held to have taken place inside the State of Bombay.There  remains	for  consideration the	objection  that	 thetransactions  took place in the course of inter-State  tradeor  commerce  within  the. meaning of  Art.  286(2)  of	 theConstitution and the levy of tax was therefore prohibited bythe provisions thereof.	 Even if these transactions were  inthe  course of inter-State trade, the bar of Art. 286(2)  ofthe  Constitution  stands  removed by  the  Sales  Tax	LawsValidation  Act,  for the entire period	 upto  September  6,1955.  The levy of tax for the period September 7, 1955,  toSeptember  29, 1955, would be illegal if these	transactionsare  in the course of inter-State trade.   The	petitioner'scounsel however informed us that he did not want a  decisionon  his	 question  and would not, in this  case,  press	 hisobjection  under  Art.	286(2).	 It is	unnecessary  for  ustherefore  to  decide whether the transactions	in  questiontook  place  in the course of interState  trade-or  commercewithin	the meaning of Art. 286(2) of the Constitution.	  Asthe petitioner has failed to establish any, violation of itsfundamental right, the petition is dismissed with costs.		    Petition dismissed.719