PETITIONER:DOSA SATYANARAYANAMURTY ETC.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE ANDHRA PRADESH STATE ROADTRANSPORT CORPORATIONDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/09/1960BENCH:ACT:Motor  Vehicles-Nationalisation of road transport  services-Preparation   and  enforcement	 of   schemes-Constitutionalvalidity  of  enactment-Varying frequency  of  services,  ifvariation  of  'the scheme-Validity of	rule-Motor  VehiclesAct,  1939 (IV of 1939), as amended by Act 100 of 1956,	 Ch.IV, ss. 68C, 68E-Andhra Pradesh Motor Vehicles Rules, r.  5-Constitution of India, Arts. 19 (1)(g), 19(6)(ii), 14.HEADNOTE:These petitions by certain stage carriage permit-holders forappropriate writs quashing seven schemes for nationalisationof  road  transport  services  in  West	 Godavari  District,approved and enforced from different dates by the Governmentof  Andhra  Pradesh, called in question	 the  constitutionalvalidity  of  Ch. IVA of the Motor Vehicles  Act,  1939,  asamended by Act 100 of 1956, and the validity of r. 5 of	 theAndhra	Pradesh	 Motor Vehicles Rules framed  by  the  StateGovernment  under s. 68(1) of the Act and the note in  termsof  the said rule appended to the schemes which was said  tobe inconsistent with the Act and was as follows:-"The frequency of services of any of the notified routes  orwithin	any  notified area shall, if  necessary,  be  variedhaving regard to the traffic needs during any period."Held, that in view of the decision of this Court in H. C.			    643Narayanappa v. The State of Mysore, it was no longer open tothe  petitioners to contend that the provisions of Ch.	 IVAof  the Motor Vehicles Act (IV of 1939), as amended  by	 theCentral Act 100 of 1956, were ultra vires the powers of	 theParliament.H.   C. Narayanappa v. The State of Mysore, [1960] 3  S.C.R.742, followed.Nor  was it correct to contend that Ch.	 IVA of the Act	 wasinvalid on the ground that it infringed Art. 19(i)(g) of theConstitution  and was not saved by Art. 19(6) as the  powersconferred  on  the State by s. 68C of the Act  exceeded	 thelimits	of  Art.  19(6)(ii) of	the  Constitution.   Article19(6)(ii) is couched in very wide terms, the word  'service'used  by it is wide enough to include all species  of  motorservice	 and it does not in any way limit the States'  powerto  confer  on	itself a monopoly in  respect  any  area  inexclusion of any person or persons.The  only classification that Ch.  IVA of the Act  makes  isbetween	  the  State  Transport	 Undertaking   and   privatetransport undertakings, whether carried on by individuals orfirms  or companies, and that classification  is  reasonablyconnected  with	 the  object it has in view.   It  was	not,therefore, correct to say that it contravenes Art. 14 of theConstitution.	That Chapter does not confer  any  arbitraryand   discriminatory   power  upon   the   State   TransportUndertaking nor does the quasi-judicial procedure prescribedby it seek to cover such power.	 Any mala fide or  collusiveexercise  of  the  power, therefore, in	 deprivation  of  anindividual's  rights  can only be a ground  for	 quashing  aparticular  scheme alone but not for declaring	the  chaptervoid. Since	that  chapter provides a complete  and	satisfactorymachinery for reasonably regulating the exclusion of all  orsome of the private operators from a notified area or  routeit requires no liberal construction.Gullapalli  Nageswara Rao v. Andhra Pradesh  Road  TransportCorporation, [1959] SUPP. 1 S.C.R. 319, referred to.Saghir	Ahmad  v. The State of U. P., [1955] 1	S.C.R.	707,considered.Official bias inherent in the discharge of a statutory duty,as  has	 been pointed out by this Court,  is  distinct	frompersonal  bias for or against any of the parties.  Since  inthe  instant case, the State Road Transport Corporation	 wasneither	 legally  nor factually a department  of  the  StateGovernment and the State Government in deciding the  disputebetween	 the said undertaking and the operators	 of  privatebuses  was  only  discharging  its  statutory  function,  noquestion of official bias could arise.Gullapalli  Nageswara  Rao v. The State of  Andhra  Pradesh,[1960]	1 S.C.R. 580 and H. C. Narayanappa v. The  State  ofMysore, [1960] 3 S.C.R. 742, considered.644The  observations made by this Court in Srinivasa  Reddy  v.The  State of Mysore, in regard to piecemeal  implementationof a scheme were directed against any abuse of power by	 wayof  discrimination  as between operators  and  operators  inrespect	 of  a single scheme.  Since the  seven	 schemes  inquestion  were	intended  to  avoid  the  vice	inherent  inpiecemeal  implementation of a single scheme and were  meantto be implementated in their entirety from different  dates,those observations did not apply to them.Srinivasa Reddy v. The State of Mysore, [1960] 2 S.C.R	130,explained.There can be no doubt that r. 5 of the Andhra Pradesh  MotorVehicles   Rules  in  conferring  on  the  State   TransportUndertaking  the  power to vary the frequency  of  services,gave  it the power to effect a substantial  modification  inthe scheme permissible only under s. 68E of the Act, and  assuch  the  rule must be declared void.	But since  the	noteappended  to  the  schemes  in	pursuance  of  the  rule  isseverable  from	 the schemes, it should be deleted  and	 theschemes must be declared valid.The  word 'route' in s. 68C of the Act does not refer  to  apreexisting route.  It is permissible under that section  toframe  a  scheme  in respect of any area  or  route  or	 anyportions thereof, or a new route, since there is no inherentinconsistency between an 'area' and a 'route'.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petitions Nos. 76, 217 to 228 of1960.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.A.   V.	 Viswanatha Sastri and T. V. R. Tatachari,  for	 thepetitioners (In petitions Nos. 76, 87, 93-104 and 217-228 of1960).T.   V. R. Tatachari, for the petitioners (In petitions Nos. 72and 229-233 of 1960).D.   Narasaraju,  Advocate General for the State  of  AndhraPradesh,  P.  R.  Ramchandra  Rao and T.  M.  Sen,  for	 therespondents (In all the petitions).1960.  September 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySUBBA RAO J.-These petitions are filed under Art. 32 of	 theConstitution   for  the	 enforcement  of  the	petitioners'fundamental  right  to	carry  on  the	business  of   motortransport in West Godavari District in			    645the  State  of Andhra Pradesh by the issuance  of  writs  ofcertiorari  or	any  other  appropriate	 writs,	 orders	  ordirections  to quash the schemes of road transport  servicesas  finally approved by the Government of Andhra Pradesh  onMarch 21, 1960, and for other incidental reliefs.In  exercise of the powers conferred by s. 68C of the  MotorVehicles Act (IV of 1939), as amended by the Central Act 100of  1956, (hereinafter called the Act), Shri  Guru  Pershad,the  Chief  Executive  Officer, Andhra	Pradesh	 State	RoadTransport  Corporation,	 (hereinafter called  the  TransportCorporation)  published	 seven proposals dated	December  7,1959, in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette dated December 17, 1959,propounding  seven  schemes for the nationalization  of	 theroad  transport	 in  respect  of  different  parts  of	WestGodavari  District in that State.  Under  that	notificationobjections from the public and affected parties were invitedto  be filed within 30 days of the publication thereof	Morethan 3000 objections were received by the Government againstthe  said  schemes.  After considering the  objections,	 theGovernment   issued  notices  to  the  objectors  or   theirrepresentatives	 and  the representatives of  the  TransportCorporation informing them of the time, place and the  datesof hearing.  On the notified dates, namely, March 10, 11 and12,  1960, 200 objectors were present and most of them	wererepresented  by	 Advocates.  The Transport  Corporation	 wasalso  represented  by its Chief Executive  Officer  and	 itslegal advisers.	 The Minister in charge of the portfolio  oftransport  held	 an  enquiry,  considered  the	 conflictingarguments  advanced,  gave definite findings on	 the  pointsurged, rejected all the objections but one and approved	 theschemes with a slight modification.  The seven schemes	weredirected to be put in force from different dates which	weregiven  in  the order made by  the Minister.   The  aggrievedoperators  who	were  not satisfied with the  order  of	 theMinister filed the present petitions for the said reliefs.Shri  A.  V.  Viswanatha Sastri,  learned  counsel  for	 thepetitioners, raised before us the following points.646(1)The provisions of Ch.  IVA of the Act are ultra vires thepowers	of Parliament because they are within the  exclusivelegislative  field of the States. (2) The provisions of	 Ch.IVA  of	 the  Act infringe the	fundamental  rights  of	 thepetitioners under Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution and	 arenot  saved  by	el.  (6) of  the  said	  Article.  (3)	 Theprovisions of Ch.  IVA are also violative of Art. 14 of	 theConstitution. (4) The order of the Government confirming theschemes is vitiated by the doctrine of bias and,  therefore,void. (5) Though in fact seven schemes are framed, in effectthey  are component parts of one scheme and that device	 hasbeen  adopted  to circumvent the judgment of this  Court  inSrinivasa Reddy v. The State of Mysore (1). (6) The schemes-are void inasmuch as they area prepared and published by theChief  Executive Officer who was not one of the persons	 whocould act on behalf of the Transport Corporation under s. 13of  the Road Transport Corporations Act. (7) The schemes  aspropounded  by	the Transport Corporation did not  give	 thenumber of vehicles proposed to be operated in each route  asit should have given under r. 4 of the Andhra Pradesh  MotorVehicles  Rules	 (hereinafter  called  the  rules)  and	 themodification  made by the Minister directing  the  TransportCorporation  to	 do  so	 does  not  also  comply  with	 therequirements of the said rule. (8) In exercise of the  powerconferred  under  r.  5 of the-Rules,  the  State  TransportUnder,	taking conferred upon itself power to vary the	fre-quency	of  the	 services and that rule and  the  note	madepursuant thereto are inconsistent with the provisions of theAct  and, therefore, void. (9) The proposed schemes  includethree  new routes and that is illegal as the said  TransportUndertaking  has  no power to include any new  routes  in  ascheme	proposed  by it.  Though many  other  questions	 areraised in the petitions, they are not pressed before us.Learned	 Advocate  General for the State of  Andhra  Pradeshsought to sustain the schemes as approved by the Minister intheir entirety.(1)  (1960] 2 S.C.R. 130.			    647We  shall  now proceed to deal with the contentions  in	 theorder they were raised.Re. (1) : The first contention does not now merit a detailedconsideration as it has been considered and rejected by thisCourt  in H. C. Narayanappa v. The State of Mysore (1).	  Inthat  case,  after  considering	 the  question,	 Shah,	 J.,speaking for this Court, observed:"We  are  therefore  of	 the view  that	 Chapter  IVA  couldcompetently be enacted by the Parliament under entry No.  21read with entry No. 35 of the Concurrent List."Nothing further Deed be said on this point.  With respect weaccept and follow the said decision.Re.  (2): The next contention is based upon Art. 19  of	 theConstitution.	The question is whether Ch.  IVA of the	 Actis saved by Art. 19(6) of the Constitution.  If Chiva, whichprovides for the nationalization of road transport  servicesin  the manner prescribed, thereunder is not  a	 permissiblelegislation covered by Art. 19(6), it would certainly offendagainst	 the  fundamental  right of the	 petitioners  to  dobusiness in motor transport.  The constitutional validity ofCh.   IVA of the Act was raised in Gullapalli Nageswara	 Raov. Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (2).  There  itwas  argued  that  Ch.	 IVA  of the  Act  was	a  piece  ofcolourable  legislation whose real object was to  take	overthe  business of the petitioners therein under the cover  ofcancellation  of permits in contravention of Art. 31 of	 theConstitution and that plea was rejected by this Court.	 Butno attack was made on the validity of Ch.  IVA of the Act onthe ground that it infringed the provisions of Art. 19(1)(g)of  the	 Constitution and was not saved by cl.	(6)  of	 theArticle.   That point is now raised before us.	 Under	Art.19(1)(g),  all	citizens shall have the right  to  carry  ontrade or business.  The material part of (6) of Art. 19,  asamended	  by   the  Constitution  (First   Amendment)	Act,1951,reads:"  Nothing  in	sub-clause (g) of the  said  clause..  shallaffect the operation of any existing law in so far(1) [1960] 3 S.C.R. 742.(2) [1959] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 319.83648as  it relates to, or prevent the State from making any	 lawrelating to............ the carrying on by the State, or  bya  corporation	owned  or controlled by the  State,  of	 anytrade,	business,  industry  or	 service,  whether  to	 theexclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise."The only question is, how far and to what extent Art.  19(6)secures the validity of Ch.  IVA of the Act from attack thatit offends against Art. 19(1)(g) ?  Learned counsel for	 thePetitioners  contends that Art. 19(6)(ii) provides only	 forpartial	 exclusion of citizens, that is, the exclusion of  acertain	 class	of persons as a whole and  not	for  partialexclusion  of  some among the same class.  As  s.  68C,	 theargument  proceeds, enables the State Transport	 Undertakingto  frame a scheme for excluding some among the same  class,the  said  provision  is  not saved by	Art.  19(6)  of	 theConstitution.  Relevant portions of s. 68C of the Act read:"  Where  any  State transport	undertaking  is	 of  opinionthat..............  it is necessary in the  public  interestthat  road transport services in general or  any  particularclass  of such service in relation to any area or  route  orportion	 thereof  should be run and operated  by  the  Statetransport  undertaking, whether to the exclusion,  complete,or partial, of other persons or otherwise...."Under this section a scheme may be framed in respect of roadtransport  service in general or in respect of a  particularclass  of  such	 service  empowering  the  State   TransportUndertaking to run the said service ; it may be in  relationto any area or route or a portion thereof; it may also be tothe exclusion of all or some of the persons running the saidservice in general or a particular class of it.	 The sectionenables	 the  State  to	 take over  particular	class  of  aservice,  say, the bus service, and exclude all or  some  ofthe  persons  doing  business  in  that	 class	of  service.Learned counsel says that this section confers a wide  powerbeyond	the  permissible  limits of Art.  19(6)(ii)  of	 theConstitution.  To state it differently, the argument is thatwhile Art. 19(6)(ii) does not enable a partial exclusion			    649of some among the same class of service, s. 68C permits	 thesaid exclusion.The answer to this argument depends upon the true meaning ofthe  provisions of the said Article.  Under sub-cl. (ii)  ofArt.  19(6),  the  State  can make a  law  relating  to	 thecarrying  on  by  the State or by  a  corporation  owned  orcontrolled  by	the  State,  of	 any  particular   business,industry  or service, whether to the exclusion, complete  orpartial, of citizens or otherwise.  Article 19(6) is only  asaving	provision and the law made empowering the  State  tocarry on a business is secured from attack on the ground  ofinfringement  of the fundamental rights of a citizen to	 theextent	it  does not exceed the limits of the scope  of	 thesaid  provision.   Sub-clause (ii) is couched in  very	wideterms.	 Under it the State can make law for carrying  on  abusiness  or service to the exclusion, complete or  partial,of  citizens or otherwise.  The law, therefore, can  providefor  carrying  on  a service to the  exclusion	of  all	 thecitizens; it may, exclude some of the citizens only; it	 maydo  business in the entire State or a portion of the  State,in a specified route or a part thereof The word " service  "is wide enough to take in not only the general motor servicebut all the species of motor service.  There are, therefore,no limitations on the State's power to make laws  conferringmonopoly on it in respect of an area, and person or  personsto  be excluded.  In this view, it must be held that s.	 68Cdoes  not exceed the limits prescribed by Art. 19(6)(ii)  ofthe Constitution.Re. (3): The next contention is that the provisions of Ch.IVA of the Act, and particularly those of s. 68C    thereof,offend against Art. 14 of the Constitution.  The argument isthat  Ch.   IVA enables the State to make  a  discriminationbetween the State Road Transport Corporation on the one handand private operators and private transport undertakings  onthe other, and also to make a similar discrimination betweenthe private operators or the private transport undertakings,and  that  this	 discrimination is  left  to  the  arbitrarydiscretion  of the Transport Corporation.  It is  true	thatthe provisions of this Chapter650enable	a scheme to be framed conferring a monopoly  on	 theState  in  respect of transport services to the	 partial  orcomplete   exclusion   of  other  persons.    However,	 theprovisions of the scheme do not make any distinction betweenindividuals  operating	a  transport  service  and   privatetransport  undertakings; they are all treated as  one  classand  the  classification  is only  made	 between  the  StateTransport  Undertaking and private  transport  undertakings,whether	 the business is carried on by individuals or  firmsor companies.  The only question, therefore, is whether sucha classification offends against the equality clause of	 theConstitution.  Article 14 says:" The State shall not deny to any person equality before thelaw or the equal protection of the laws within the territoryof India."This doctrine of equality has been so frequently  consideredby  this  Court	 that  it  does	 not  require  any   furtherconsideration.	It has been held that this Article does	 notprohibit  reasonable  classification  for  the	purpose	  oflegislation,  but such a classification cannot be  arbitrarybut  must  be  based upon differences  which  have  rationalrelation to the object sought to be achieved.  Doubtless  inthe present case, the Legislature placed the State TransportUndertaking  in a class different from	other  undertakings.The question is whether the classification made in Ch.	 IVAof the Act is just and has reasonable relation to the objectof the legislation.  The object of Ch.	IVA, as disclosed bythe  provisions of s. 68C, is to provide in the interest  ofthe  public an efficient, adequate, economical and  properlycoordinated road transport service.  To achieve that  objects. 68C confers a power on the State Transport Undertaking toprepare	 a  scheme  to	run  the  service,  whether  to	 theexclusion,   complete  or  partial,  of	 other	persons	  orotherwise.   The  classification  has  certainly  reasonablenexus  to  the object sought to be achieved.   Ordinarily  aState  Transport  Undertaking, compared with  per.  sons  orprivate	 undertakings, should be in a better  Position	thanothers to carry on the said services for the benefit of	 thepublic administratively, financially			    651and  technically  it can be expected to be in a	 far  betterposition  than	others.	 It can provide more  well  equippedbuses, give better amenities to the travelling public,	keepregular timings, repair or replace the buses in emergencies.It  may	 also  employ efficient supervisory  staff  to	keepthings	going at an appreciably high standard.	We  are	 notsuggesting   that  there  are  no  individuals	or   privatecompanies  who	can efficiently run the	 service.   But	 theState,	compared with individuals, should certainly be in  abetter	position to achieve the object, namely,	 to  improvethe  road transport service in all its diverse aspects.	  Insuch  a	 situation,  when the  legislature,  which  must  bepresumed to understand and correctly appreciate the needs ofits  own  people,  makes a classification  between  a  StateTransport Undertaking and others carrying On the business oftransport   services,  we  cannot  say	that  there  is	  noreasonable basis for such a classification.But  it is said that s. 68C of the Act and other  provisionsof Ch.	IVA thereof confer an arbitrary power upon the StateTransport  Undertaking to discriminate	between	 individualsand  the  said Undertaking between individuals	and  privateundertakings, and between individuals and individuals.	 Butthe  scheme  of Ch. IVA, which has been considered  by	thisCourt  in Gullapalli Nageswara Rao v. Andhra  Pradesh  StateRoad  Transport	 Corporation (1), evolves  a  machinery	 forkeeping	 the State Transport Undertaking within	 bounds	 andfrom acting in an arbitrary manner, for s. 68C lays down thelegislative policy in clear and understandable terms and theState  Transport Undertaking can initiate a scheme only	 forproviding  an efficient, adequate, economical  and  properlycoordinated road transport service.  Another condition whichit  lays down is that the scheme is necessary in the  publicinterest.   The	 scheme so framed is  published,  with	all-necessary  particulars, in the official Gazette and also  insuch  manner  as the State Government  may  direct;  personsaffected  by  the  scheme may  file  objections	 within	 theprescribed  time ; the State Government,  after	 consideringthe objections and(1)  [1959] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 319.652giving	 an   opportunity   to	the   objectors	  or   theirrepresentatives	  and  the  representatives  of	 the   StateTransport Undertaking to be beard in the matter, may approveor modify the scheme; the scheme so approved or modified  ispublished.   The  rules	 framed under the  Act	provide	 forpersonal hearing.  If the State Transport Undertaking  seeksto  modify  a  scheme,	it will	 have  to  follow  the	sameprocedure  before doing so: see as. 68C, 68D and 68E of	 theAct.  It will be seen from the provisions of Ch.  IVA of theAct that the State Transport Undertaking, before propoundinga  scheme,  arrives at the decision on	objective  criteria.The  parties  affected	and  the  public  are  given   everyopportunity to place their objections before the Government,and  the Government, after following the  prescribed  quasi-judicial  procedure, confirms or modifies the  scheme.	 Thescheme, before it is finalised, is subjected to public	gazeand  scrutiny  and the validity and appropriateness  of	 theprovisions  are	 tested by a  quasi-judicial  process.	 TheGovernment  cannot be equated to a Court; but the  procedureprescribed  accords with the principles of natural  justice.It  is said that the State Transport Undertaking  is  eitherthe  State Government or a corporation, owned or  controlledby  the	 State,	 and  as  such	the  entire   quasi-judicialprocedure prescribed is only a cloak to screen the  exerciseof  an	absolute  and arbitrary power on  the  part  of	 theGovernment.   We cannot say that Ch.  IVA is such a  device.The Legislature made a sincere attempt to protect as far  aspossible  individual rights from the arbitrary acts  of	 theexecutive.  Once it is conceded that Ch.  IVA of the Act  isconstitutionally  good and that the Legislature can  validlymake law for nationalization of the road transport  service,the  procedure	laid down for implementing the	said  policycannot, in our view, be said to be unreasonable.  If in	 anyparticular case the mala fides of the authorities  concernedand  collusion between the State Transport  Undertaking	 andthe State Government to deprive particular persons of  theirright  to  do  road  transport	business  or  to  drive	 outparticular persons from the trade on extraneous			    653considerations,	 are established, that may be a	 ground	 forstriking down that particular scheme.  But the provisions ofCh.   IVA  cannot  be struck down on the  ground  that	theyconfer an arbitrary power on the State Transport Undertakingand   on  the  State  Government  to  discriminate   betweenindividuals  and  the State Transport  Undertaking,  betweenindividuals   and   private   undertakings,   and    betweenindividuals and individuals.This question was raised in Saghir Ahmad v. The State of  U.P.  (1).  That case dealt with the provisions of the  U.  P.Road  Transport Act, 1951 (U.  P. Act II of 1951). Under  s.42(3)  of  that Act the Government was	exempt	from  takingpermits for its own vehicles and it could run any number  ofbuses  as  it  liked without the  necessity  of	 taking	 outpermits'  for them.  In furtherance of the State  policy  toestablish  a  complete	State monopoly in  respect  of	roadtransport business, the transport authorities began not onlyto  cancel the permits already issued to  private  operatorsbut  also  refused  to issue permits to	 others,  who  wouldother.	wise  be  entitled  to	them.	The   constitutionalvalidity  of  that section was questioned.  It may  also  bementioned  that	 though that decision was  given  after	 theConstitution  (First Amendment) Act, 1951, it was not  basedupon   that  amendment,	 as  the  Constitution	before	 theamendment  governed the rights of the parties  therein.	  Inthat situation, adverting to the argument based upon Art. 14of the Constitution, Mukherjea, J., as he then was, made thefollowing observations at p. 731:"  There is no doubt that classification is inherent in	 theconcept	 of a monopoly; and if the object of legislation  isto  create monopoly in favour of the State with regard to  aparticular  business,  obviously, the State  cannot  but  bedifferentiated	from  ordinary	citizens  and  placed  in  aseparate  category so far as the running of the business  isconcerned  and	this classification would have	a  perfectlyrational relation to the object of the statute.",Section 3 of that Act provided that " where the State(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707.654Government  is	satisfied  that	 it  is	 necessary,  in	 theinterest  of  general public and for subserving	 the  commongood,  so to direct, it may declare that the Road  TransportServices in general, or any particular class of such serviceon  any route or portion thereof, shall be run and  operatedby  the	 State	Government  exclusively	 or  by	 the   StateGovernment  in	conjunction with railway or  partly  by	 theState Government and partly by others in accordance with theprovisions of this Act It was contended therein that, as theState  could  choose any and every person it liked  for	 thepurpose	 of being associated with the transport service	 andas  there  were	 no  rules to  guide  its  discretion,	thatprovision would offend against Art. 14 of the  Constitution.It  was	 pointed  out  on  behalf  of  the  State  that	 thediscretion  under s. 3 of that Act was not  uncontrolled  asthat could Only be done by granting of permits in accordancewith  the provisions of the Motor Vehicles  Act.   Acceptingthe  construction  suggested,  this  Court  held  that	 thediscretion  to	be  exercised  by  the	State  would  be  a,regulated discretion guided by statutory rules.	 But in	 theinstant case, no liberal construction of the provisions needbe  resorted to, for Ch.  IVA of the Act in  specific  termsprovides a complete and, in the circumstances,	satisfactorymachinery for reasonably regulating the exclusion of all  orsome  of  the private operators from the  notified  area  orroute.	We, therefore, hold that the provisions of Ch.	 IVAof the Act do not infringe the equality clause enshrined  inArt 14 of the Constitution.Re. (4): By the next contention the learned counsel  attacksthe validity of the scheme on the ground that the Governmentis  actuated by bias against the private operators of  busesin West Godavari District, and indeed had predetermined	 theissue.	In the petitions it was alleged that the  Governmenthad  complete  control over the Road  Transport	 Corporationthat  the entire administration and control over  such	roadtransport  undertaking	vested in the Government,  that	 theChief Secretary to the Government of Andhra Pradesh was	 itschairman and that, therefore, the			    655entire scheme, from its inception to its final approval, wasreally the act of the Government.  On this hypothesis it wascontended that the Government itself was made a judge in itsown cause and that, therefore, its decision was vitiated  bylegal  bias.   That apart, it was also pleaded that  a	sub-committee, consisting of Ministers, Secretaries and officersof  connected departments and presided over by the  Ministerin  charge of transport, decided in its meeting	 of  January28,  1960, that under the scheme of nationalization  of	 busservice,  the  State  Government would	take  over  the	 busservices  in  West  Godavari District  and  Guntur  Districtbefore the end of that year and, therefore, the Minister  incharge	 of   the   portfolio  of   transport,	 he   havingpredetermined-the issue, disqualified himself to decide	 thedispute	 between  the State Transport  Undertaking  and	 thepetitioners.   The  self  same	questions  were	 raised	  inGullapalli Nagestvara Rao v. The State of Andhra Pradesh(1).There,	as  in this case, it was contended  that  the  ChiefMinister,  who was in charge of the portfolio of  transport,could  not  be a judge in his own cause, as  he	 was  biasedagainst	 the private operators.	 This Court pointed out	 thedistinction  between official bias of an authority which  isinherent in a statutory duty imposed on it and personal biasof  the said authority in favour of, or against, one of	 theparties.   In dealing with official bias this  Court,  afterconsidering  the relevant English decisions, observed at  p.587 thus:"These	decisions show that in England a statutory  invasionof  the	 common	 law  objection on the	ground	of  bias  istolerated  by  decisions,  but	the  invasion  is   confinedstrictly  to the limits of the statutory exception.   It  isnot  out  of  place  here to  notice  that  in	England	 theParliament is supreme and therefore a statutory law, howeverrepugnant  to the principles of natural justice, is valid  ;whereas	 in  India  the law made by Parliament	or  a  StateLegislature  should  stand the test  of	 fundamental  rightsdeclared in Part III of the Constitution."(1)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 580.84656Then  this Court proceeded to state that the provisions	  ofthe  Act did not sanction any dereliction of the  principlesof  natural  justice,  for the Act  visualized	in  case  ofconflict  between  the	undertaking  and  the  operators  ofprivate	 buses	that  the State	 Government  should  sit  injudgment and resolve the conflict.  Much to  the same effecthas been stated by Shah, J., in H. C.  Narayanappa  v.	 TheState	of   Mysore  (1)  though   in	slightly   differentphraseology.  The learned Judge stated :"  It is also true that the Government on whom the  duty  todecide	the dispute rests, is substantially a party  to	 thedispute but if the Government or the ,authority to whom	 thepower is delegated acts judicially in approving or modifyingthe  scheme,  the approval or modification is  not  open  tochallenge  on  a presumption of bias.  The Minister  or	 theofficer of the Government who is invested with the power  tohear  objections  to the scheme is acting  in  his  officialcapacity and unless there is reliable evidence to show	thathe  is biased, his decision will not be liable to be  calledin question, merely because he is a limb of the Government."In   the  above	 cases	the  transport	department  of	 theGovernment was the transport undertaking, but here the StateRoad Transport Corporation, which is a body corporate havinga  perpetual  succession and common seal, is  the  transportauthority.   Though  under the provisions of  the  Act,	 theState Government has some control, it, cannot be said eitherlegally	 or  factually	that  the  said	 Corporation  is   adepartment  of the State Government.  The State	 Government,therefore,   in	 deciding  the	dispute	 between  the	saidundertaking  and  the  operators of private  buses  is	onlydischarging   its  statutory  functions.   This	  objection,therefore,  has no merits.  Nor can we say that it has	beenestablished that the Minister in charge of the portfolio  oftransport has been actuated by personal bias.  The fact thathe presided over the sub-committee constituted to  implementthe  scheme of nationalization of bus services in  the	WestGodavari District does not in(1)  [1960] 3 S.C.R. 742.			    657itself	establish  any such bias.  Indeed,  in	the  counteraffidavit  filed on behalf of the first respondent the	con-tents and authenticity of the reports of the proceedings  ofthe  sub-committee  published  in  the	Telu  daily  "AndhraPradesh " were not admitted.  Even if the sub-committee cameto such a decision, it is not possible to hold that it was afinal  and'  irrevocable  decision  in	derogation  of	 theprovisions of the Act. it was only a policy decision and  inthe  circumstances  could only mean that  the  sub-committeeadvised	 the  State Government to implement  the  policy  ofnationalization of bus services in that particular district.The said decision could not either expressly or by necessaryimplication involve a predetermination of the issue: it	 canonly  mean that the policy would be implemented	 subject  tothe  provisions	 of the Act.  It is not suggested  that	 theMinister  in  charge  of the  concerned	 portfolio  has	 anypersonal bias against the operators of private buses or	 anyof  them.   We,	 therefore,  hold  that	 it  has  not	beenestablished that the Minister in charge of the portfolio  oftransport bad personal bias against the operators of privatebuses and, therefore, disqualified himself from hearing	 theobjections under Ch.  IVA of the Act.Re. (5): The next contention is based upon the	observationsof  this  Court in Shrinivasa Reddy v. The State  of  Mysore(1).   After elaborating on the scope of s. 68C of the	Act,Wanchoo, J., observed at p. 136 thus:"Therefore,  the  scheme to be framed must be  ,such  as  iscapable of being carried out all at once and that is why theUndertaking  has been given the power to frame a scheme	 foran  area or route or even a portion  thereof............  Ifthe Undertaking at that stage has the power to carry it	 outpiecemeal, it would be possible for it to abuse the power ofimplementation	and to discriminate against  some  operatorsand  in favour of others included in the scheme and also  tobreak  up the integrity of the scheme and in a sense  modifyit against the terms of s. 68E."Based  on these observations it is contended that the  StateGovernment intended to frame only one scheme(1)  [1960] 2 S C.R. 130.658for  the entire district though it was not in a position  toimplement  the scheme in the entire district at one and	 thesame time, but to circumvent the observations of this  Courtit  had split up one scheme into seven schemes.	  The  firstrespondent  in its counter affidavit met this allegation  inthe following way:"Having	 regard to the resources of the Undertaking in	men,material  and money, each scheme has been so framed that  itis  capable of being carried out all at once, and  in  full,without	  breaking  its	 integrity'  The   State   TransportUndertaking will carry out each of the published schemes  ona date fixed by the State Government for the  implementationof each scheme".  The Minister in his order also adverted tothis  aspect and observed: " In this case,  seven  differentschemes	 have  been framed.  Each scheme is a  separate	 andindependent  scheme by itself In terms of the  notification,each scheme after approval will come into force only from  adate to be, fixed by the Government.  Though different datesmay   be  fixed	 for  each  scheme,  each  scheme  will	  beimplemented in its entirety.  No piecemeal implementation ofany  one  scheme  will be done ". Indeed the  order  of	 theMinister fixed specific dates from which each of the schemesshall  come  into force.  This Court did not lay  down	thatthere cannot be any phased programme in the  nationalizationof  transport services in a State or in a district; nor	 didit  hold  that there cannot be more than one  scheme  for  adistrict or a part of a district.  The observations of	thisCourt in regard to the implementation of a scheme  piecemealwere aimed at to prevent an abuse of power by discriminatingagainst some operators and in favour of others in respect ofa  single scheme.  In the present case, seven  schemes	wereframed not to circumvent the observations of this Court, butonly to avoid the vice inherent in piecemeal implementation.Not  only seven separate schemes were framed in	 respect  ofseparate areas of the district, but also the Government madeit  clear  that	 each scheme should be	implemented  in	 itsentirety  commencing  from  different  dates.	We  do	not,therefore,  see any legitimate objection to the	 framing  ofseven separate, schemes.659Re.  (6):  This	 contention questions the  validity  of	 theschemes	 on the ground that the Chief Executive	 Officer  ofthe  Andhra  Pradesh  Road  Transport  Corporation  is	 notempowered to publish the schemes and, therefore, the schemeswere  not  validly  published.	In exercise  of	 the  powersconferred  by  S. 68C of the Act, the Andhra  Pradesh  StateRoad   Transport  Corporation  proposed	 the   schemes	 andpublished  them in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, Part  11,  p.1310.	The  proposed schemes were signed by  Guru  Pershad,Chief Executive Officer, State Transport Undertaking, AndhraPradesh Road Transport Corporation, The relevant  provisionsof  the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950 (Act  LXIV  of1950) may be noticed at this stage.  Under s. 4 of the	saidAct,  " Every Corporation shall be a body corporate  by	 thename  notified under section 3 having  perpetual  successionand  a	common seal, and shall by the said name sue  and  besued ". Relevant portions of s. 12 read: " A Corporation mayfrom time to time by resolution passed at a meeting.........authorize the Chief Executive Officer or General Manager, orany  other  officer  of	 the  Corporation  subject  to	suchconditions and limitations if any as may be specified in theresolution  to exercise such powers and perform such  dutiesas  it	may  deem necessary for the  efficient	day  to	 dayadministration	of  its business".  Section 13 says:  "	 Allorders and decisions of a Corporation shall be authenticatedby  the	 signature  of	the Chairman  or  any  other  memberauthorized  by the Corporation in this behalf and all  otherinstruments  issued by a Corporation shall be  authenticatedby  the signature of the Chief Executive Officer or  GeneralManager	 or any other officer of the Corporation  authorizedin  like  manner  in this behalf".  Relying  upon  the	saidprovisions,  learned  counsel for the  petitioners  contendsthat  the  preparation	and publication of  the	 schemes  inquestion under s. 68C of the Act are orders or decisions  ofthe  Corporation and, therefore, should be authenticated  bythe  signature	of  the Chairman or any	 other	member	dulyauthorized  under s. 13 of the Road  Transport	CorporationsAct and not by the Chief Executive Officer.  The first660respondent  in its counter-affidavit attempted to meet	thiscontention  by	stating that the Corporation  by  resolutionauthorized  the	 Chief Executive Officer  to  exercise	suchpowers and perform such duties as it may deem necessary	 forthe efficient day to day administration of its business	 andthe   Chief   Executive	  Officer  in	exercise   of	suchauthorization  published  the schemes in the  Gazette.	 Thefirst  respondent  relied upon s. 12 of the  Road  TransportCorporations  Act  and not on s. 13 thereof to	sustain	 thepower of the Chief Executive Officer to publish the schemes.We  have no reason not to accept the statement of the  firstrespondent  that  there	 was  a	 resolution  passed  by	 theCorporation  in	 terms of s. 12 (c) of	the  Road  TransportCorporations  Act.  If so, the only question is whether	 theact  of	 publishing  the  proposed  schemes  framed  by	 theCorporation  in	 the  Gazette pertains to  the	day  to	 dayadministration	of  the Corporation's business.	  The  ChiefExecutive  Officer  has no power under the Act	to  frame  ascheme.	  Section  68C	empowers only  the  State  TransportUndertaking to prepare a scheme and cause every such  schemeto  be	published in the official Gazette and also  in	suchother  manner  as  the State  Government  may  direct.	 Thescheme,	 therefore,  need not be directly published  by	 theCorporation,  but  it may cause it to be  published  in	 theofficial  Gazette.   The act of publishing in  the  officialGazette	 is  a	ministerial act.  It does  not	involve	 anyexercise  of discretion.  It is only a mechanical one to  becarried out in the course of day to day administration.	  Sounderstood,  there cannot be any difficulty in holding	thatit  was purely a ministerial act which the  Chief  ExecutiveOfficer by reason of the aforesaid resolution can  dischargeunder  s. 12(c) of the Road Transport Corporations Act.	  Itmust  be  presumed  for the purpose of this  case  that	 theCorporation  decided the terms of the proposed	schemes	 andthe  said decision must have been duly authenticated by	 theChairman  or any other member authorized by the	 Corporationin  this behalf and the Chief Executive Officer did  nothingmore  than  publish  the  said scheme  in  exercise  of	 itsadministrative functions.  We,			    661therefore,,  hold that the Chief Executive Officer was	wellwithin his rights in publishing the said proposed schemes inthe Andhra Pradesh Gazette. Re. (7): The next argument turns upon the provisions of  r.4 of the Andhra Pradesh Motor Vehicles Rules.  The  relevantpart  of the rule reads: " The scheme or approved scheme  tobe  published  in  the official Gazette	 as  required  undersection	 68C  or 68D as the case may be, shall	contain	 thefollowing  particulars:	 (i).........  (ii)  the  number  ofvehicles proposed to be operated on each route ". In certainschemes the number of vehicles to be operated on each  routewas not specified, and one number was mentioned against	 twoor more routes bracketing them.	 When an objection was takenbefore the Government in regard to this matter, the Ministeraccepted  it and directed that the scheme might be  modifiedso  as to indicate the number of vehicles to be operated  oneach  route  separately.   The	schemes	 were	accordingly'modified by indicating the number of vehicles to be operatedon  each route separately and the approved schemes with	 thesaid  modification were duly published in the Gazette  datedMarch  21, 1960.  The approved schemes,	 therefore,  satisfyrule  4(2),of the Rules, for the approved schemes,  as	dulymodified,  contain  the number of vehicles  proposed  to  beoperated on each route.	 But the point sought to be made  isthat  the Minister himself should have fixed the  number  ofvehicles  proposed to be operated on each route	 and  shouldnot have merely directed the appropriate modification to  bemade  in the approved schemes.	It does not appear from	 therecord	that  there was any dispute before the	Minister  asregards	 the apportionment of the number of  vehicles  shownagainst	 two or more routes to each of the routes;  but	 theonly contention raised was that the bracketing of the numberof  vehicles  between  two or more  routes  contravened	 theprovisions  of r. 4. Though the order of the  Minister	onlycontains  a  direction, the apportionment of  the  vehicles,between	 the  routes  was not made by  the  State  TransportAuthority,  but	 only by the Government,  for  the  approvedschemes	 were published not by the Chief  Executive  Officerbut662by  the	 State	Government.  It must be	 presumed  that	 theallocation also must have been made with the approval of theMinister.  There are no merits in this objection either.Re.  (8):  The next contention is that r. 5  framed  by	 theState  Government in exercise of the power conferred  on  itunder s. 68(1) is inconsistent with the provisions of s. 68Bof the Act and, therefore, is void.  The schemes prepared bythe State Transport Authority contain the following note:  "The  frequency of services on any of the notified routes  orwithin	any  notified area shall, if  necessary,  be  variedhaving regard to the traffic needs during any period ".	 In-deed the said note was practically a reproduction of a	noteappended to r. 5. The only question is whether r. 5 and	 thenote made pursuant thereto come into conflict with s. 68E ofthe Act.  Section 68E reads:" Any scheme published under sub-section (3) of section	 68Dmay  at	 any  time be cancelled or  modified  by  the  Statetransport undertaking and the procedure laid down in section68C  and  section  68D	shall, so far  as  it  can  be	madeapplicable,  be followed in every case where the  scheme  isproposed to be modified as if the modification proposed werea  separate  scheme".	The short question  that  arises  iswhether	 the variation of frequency of service by the  StateTransport Undertaking amounts to a modification of a  schemewithin the meaning of s. 68E of the Act.  The rule is not soinnocuous  as  the learned Advocate-General  of	 the  AndhraPradesh	 contends.   Under  that rule  the  State  TransportUndertaking,  having regard to the needs of  traffic  duringany period, may increase or decrease the number of trips  ofthe  existing buses or vary the frequency by  increasing  ordecreasing  the number of buses.  This can be  done  withoutany  reference to the public or without hearing	 any  repre-sentations  from  them.	 This increase or decrease,  as	 thecase  may be, 'Can only be for the purpose of  providing  anefficient,   adequate,	economical  transport	service	  inrelation to a particular route within the meaning of s. 68C.At  the time the original schemes are proposed, the  personsaffected by them may file			    663objections to the effect that the number of buses should  beincreased  or  decreased  on a particular  route  from	thatproposed  in  the schemes.  The Government may	accept	suchsuggestions and modify the schemes; but under	  this	rulethe authority may, without reference to the  public  or	 theGovernment,  modify  the schemes. Learned  counsel  contendsthat the note only provides for an emergency.  But the	ruleand the note are comprehensive enough to take in not only anemergency  but	also a modification of the  scheme  for	 anyperiod	which  may extend, to any length of time.   We	are,therefore, definitely of opinion that the rule confers poweron  the State Transport Undertaking to modify  substantiallythe  scheme  in one respect, though that power can  only  beexercised  under s. 68E of the Act in the manner  prescribedthereunder.  This rule is void and, therefore, the said notewas illegally inserted in the schemes.	But on that  ground,as  the	 learned counsel contends, we cannot hold  that	 theschemes	 are  void.  The note is easily severable  from	 thescheme,%  without  in  any way	affecting  their  structure.Without the note the schemes are self-contained ones and  itis  impossible to hold that the schemes would not have	beenframed	in  the manner they were made if this note  was	 notallowed	 to be included therein.  We, therefore,  hold	thatthe note should be deleted from the schemes and the  schemesare otherwise good.Re. (9): The last of the arguments attacks the schemes in sofar as they include new routes.	 The new routes included  inthe   schemes  are  Eluru  to  Kovvur,	and   Nidadavol	  toJeelugumilli.	It is argued that the provisions of  s.	 68Care  concerned	with the existing routes only.	 Support  issought	to be drawn for this contention from the  provisionsof  s.	68C of the Act.	 The relevant part of  that  sectionsays: " Where any State transport undertaking is of  opinionthat.........  it is necessary in the public  interest	thatroad  transport services in general or any particular  classof such service in relation to any area or route or  portionthereof should be run and operated by the State85664transport   undertaking............  the   State   transportundertaking  may  propose a scheme............	".  Now	 thecontention is that the word " route " in that section refersto  a  preexisting route, for it is said that  the  words  "route  or portion thereof " in the section clearly  indicatethat the route is an existing route, for a scheme cannot  beframed	in respect of a portion of a proposed route.  We  donot  see any force in this contention.	Under s. 68C of	 theAct  the  scheme may be framed in respect of any area  or  aroute  or  a portion of any area or a portion  of  a  route.There is no inherent inconsistency between an " area " and a" route ". The proposed route is also an area limited to theroute proposed.	 The scheme may as well propose to operate atransport service in respect of a new route from point A  topoint B and that route would certainly be an area within themeaning	 of  s.	 68C.	We,  therefore,	 hold  that  s.	 68Ccertainly  empowers  the  State	 Transport  Undertaking	  topropose a scheme to include new routes.Though some other points were raised in the affidavits filedbefore us, they were not pressed.In  the	 result	 we  hold that	the  note  relating  to	 thefrequency  of the services appended to the schemes  must  bedeleted	 and that in other respects the petitions fail;	 andaccordingly  they  are	dismissed with costs.	One  set  ofhearing fees.Petitions dismissed.665