PETITIONER:MANAGEMENT OF KAIRBETTA ESTATE,KOTAGIRI	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAJAMANICKAM AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:24/03/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  893		  1960 SCR  (3) 371 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1964 SC1458	 (10) RF	    1976 SC2584	 (10)ACT:Industrial Dispute--Lay-off compensation-Closure of divisiondue   to   disturbances	  by   workers--Lock-out--Subsequentreopening      of      division--Claim	    for	     lay-offcompensation--Lock-out and lay-off,  Distinction--IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947--(14 of 1947), ss. 2(1), 2	(kkk),	25C,25E(iii), 33C.HEADNOTE:The  appellant's  manager  was	violently  attacked  by	 itsworkmen as a result of which he sustained serious  injuries.The  workers  in  the lower  division  also  threatened	 theappellant's  staff working in that division that they  wouldmurder	them  if  they	worked	there.	 The  appellant	 wastherefore  compelled  to notify that the division  would  beclosed	until further notice.  Subsequently as a  result  ofconciliation  before  the labour officer, the  division	 wasopened	again.	 The  workers  made  a	claim  for   lay-offcompensation  under s. 25C of the Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947,  for  the period during which the lower  division	 wasclosed	on  the footing that the management  for  their	 ownreasons	 did  not  choose to run the  division	during	thatperiod.	  The appellant's answer was, inter alia,  that	 theclosure	 of the division amounted to a lock-out which  underthe  circumstances was perfectly justified and as  such	 theworkers were not entitled to claim any lay-off compensation:Held  ;	 (1) that the concept of a lock-out  is	 essentiallydifferent  from that of a lay-off and where the	 closure  ofbusiness  amounts  to  a  lock-out  under  s.  2(1)  of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act,372it  would  be impossible to bring it within the scope  of  alay-off under s. 2 (kkk) of the Act.(2)that	 the expression " any other reason " in S.  2  (kkk)means  any  reason which is allied or analogous	 to  reasonsalready specified in that section.J.   K.	 Hosiery  Factory v. Labour  Appellate	Tribunal  ofIndia Anr,     A.I.R. 1956 All. 498, approved.(3)  that  the lock-out which was justified on the facts  ofthe  case, was not a lay-off and therefore the workmen	werenot entitled to claim any lay-off compensation.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 91 of 1959.Appeal	by  special  leave from	 the  decision	dated  March24,1958, of the Labour Court, Coimbatore, in R.	  P. No.  35of 1958.G.   B. Pai and Sardar Bahadur, for the appellant.M.   K.	  Ramamurthi  and  T.  S.  Venkataraman,   for	 therespondents.1960.  March 24.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal by special leave is  directedagainst	 the order passed by the Labour Court at  Coimbatoredirecting  the	appellant, the Management of  the  KairbettaEstate,	 Kotagiri,  to	pay  lay-off  compensation  to	 itsworkmen,  the respondents, for the period between  July	 28,1957,  to  September 2, 1957.  This order was  passed  on  acomplaint  filed by the respondents before the Labour  Courtunder s. 33C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, XIV of	1947(hereinafter called the Act).The  material  facts leading to the  respondents'  complaintmust  be set out briefly at the outset.	 On July  26,  1957,Mr. Ramakrishna Iyer, the appellant's Manager, was assaultedby  some of the workmen of the appellant.  He  suffered	 sixfractures  and had to be in hospital in Coonoor	 and  Madrasfor  over  a month.  The appellant's staff  working  in	 thedivision known as Kelso Division was also threatened by	 theworkmen., As a result of these threats three members of	 thestaff  wrote  to the appellant on July 27, 1957,  that	theywere  afraid  to go down to the lower division	and  it	 wasimpossible  for them to work there because their lives	werein  danger.   They  added  that the  workers  in  the  lowerdivision were threatening them373that  they  would murder them if they worked  in  the  lowerdivision.   On receiving this communication from  its  staffthe  appellant	notified  on the same  day  that  the  KelsoDivision would be closed from that day onwards until furthernotice.	  This notice referred to the brutal assault on	 theManager	 and to the threat held out against the field  staffwho were reluctant to face the risk of working in the  lowerdivision.   It appears that the Kelso Division continued  tobe  closed  until September 2, 1957, on which  date  it	 wasopened,	 as  a	result of  conciliation	 before	 the  labourofficer,  when the respondents gave an assurance that  therewould  not be any further trouble.  The claim for layoff  ismade for the said period during which the division  remainedclosed between July 28 to September 2, 1957.Soon  after the division was closed the respondents  made  acomplaint to the Labour Court (No. 43 of 1957) under s.	 33Aof the Act in which they alleged that they had been  stoppedfrom doing their work without notice or enquiry and  claimedan order of reinstatement with back wages and continuity  ofservice.  At the hearing of the said complaint the appellantraised a preliminary objection that the closure in  questionwas  a	lock-out  and that it did not amount  either  to  analteration of conditions of service to the prejudice of	 theworkmen	 nor  did it constitute discharge or  punishment  bydismissal  or  otherwise  under	 cls.  A  and  B  of  s.  33respectively,  and  so the petition was	 incompetent.	Thispreliminary objection was upheld by the Labour Court and thecomplaint was accordingly dismissed on November 30, 1957.Thereafter   the   present  complaint  was  filed   by	 therespondents  on January 31, 1958, under s. 33C of  the	Act.In  this complaint it was stated that the  respondents	wererefused	 work  from  July  28 to September  2,	1957,  "  bydeclaring  a lock-out of a division of the estate " and	 theclaim made was that, as the management for their own reasonsdid not choose to run the division during the said days	 andlaid-off  the respondents, the respondents were entitled  toclaim lay-off compensation under s. 25C of the Act.  Againstthis complaint the appellant raised several contentions48374It  was	 urged	on its behalf that  the	 complaint  was	 in-competent  under  s. 33C and that the Labour  Court  had  nojurisdiction  to deal with it.	It was also  contended	thatthe  closure  of the division amounted to a  look-out  whichunder the circumstances. was perfectly justified and as suchthe  respondents  were	not entitled to	 claim	any  lay-offcompensation.	The  Labour Court rejected  the	 preliminaryobjection  as  to  want of jurisdiction and  held  that	 thecomplaint  was	competent under s. 33C.	 On  the  merits  itfound  in favour of the respondents and so it  directed	 theappellant to pay to the respondents the lay-off compensationfor  the  period  in question.	It is this  order  which  ischallenged before us in the present appeal; and the same twoquestions are raised before us.For the purpose of deciding this appeal we will assume	thatthe  complaint	filed by the respondents under	s.  33C	 wascompetent and that the Labour Court could have entertained aclaim  for  lay-off  compensation if  the  respondents	wereotherwise  entitled to it.  On that assumption the  questionwhich  we  propose to decide is whether the closure  of	 theappellant's  division  during  the  relevant  period   whichamounts	 to  a	lock-out  can be said  to  fall	 within	 thedefinition of lay-off.	We have already pointed out that  inthe earlier complaint by the respondents under s. 33A it hasbeen held by the Labour Court that the closures question wasa lock-out and as such the appellant had not contravened theprovisions  of	s.  33	of the Act.   Even  in	the  presentapplication  the  respondents have admitted  that  the	saidclosure	 is a lock-out but they have added that	 a  lock-outfalls within the definition of lay-off and that is the basisfor their claim for layoff compensation.  The question whichthus arises for our decision is: Does a lock-out fall  unders. 2(kkk) which defines a lay-off ?Section	 2(kkk)	 defines a lay-off as meaning  the  failure,refusal	 or inability of an employer on account of  shortageof  coal,  power  or raw materials or  the  accumulation  ofstocks or the breakdown of machinery or for any other reasonto  give employment to a workman whose name is borne on	 themuster rolls of his industrial establishment and who has notbeen375retrenched.  There is an explanation to the definition whichit is unnecessary to set out.  It is clear that tile lay-offtakes place for one or more of the reasons specified in	 thedefinition.   Lay-off  may  be due to shortage	of  coal  orshortage   of  power  or  shortage  of	raw   materials	  oraccumulation  of  stocks or breakdown of  machinery  or	 anyother reason.  " Any other reason " to which the  definitionrefers	must,  we  think, be a reason  which  is  allied  oranalogous  to reasons already specified.  It has been  urgedbefore	us  on behalf of the respondents that  "  any  otherreason " mentioned in the definition need not be similar  tothe preceding reasons but should include any other reason ofwhatsoever character for which lay-off may have taken place;and  in	 support of this argument reliance is placed  on  s.25E(iii).  Section 25E deals with three categories of  caseswhere  compensation  is not liable to be paid to  a  workmaneven  though  he may have been laid-off.  One  of  these  isprescribed  by	s. 25E(iii); if the laying-off is due  to  astrike or slowing down of production on the part of  workmenin another part of the establishment no compensation has  tobe paid.  The argument is that laying-off which is specifiedin  this  clause  has been excepted  because,  but  for	 theexception,  it	would have attracted the  definition  of  s.2(kkk) and would have imposed an obligation on the  employerto pay lay-off compensation.  That no doubt is true; but  wedo-  not  see  how  the case specified	in  this  clause  isinconsistent with the view that " any other reason " must besimilar	  to   the  preceding  reasons	specified   in	 thedefinition.   If  there	 is  a strike  or  slowing  down  ofproduction in one part ,of the establishment, and if lay-offis the consequence, the reason	   for	which  lay-off	 hastaken place would undoubtedly be  similar  to  the   reasonsspecified  in the definition. We are, therefore,  satisfied'that the expression " any other reason " should be construedto mean reason similar or analogous to the preceding reasonsspecified in the definition.  That is the view taken by	 theAllahabad  High	 Court in J. K. Hosiery	 Factory  v.  LabourAppellate Tribunal of India & Anr.(1).(1)  A.I.R. 1956 All. 498.376Let  us	 now consider what a lock-out means under  the	Act.Section 2(1) defines a lock-out as meaning the closing of  aplace  of  employment,	or the suspension of  work,  or	 therefusal	 by an employer to continue to employ any number  ofpersons	 employed  by him. It may be relevant to  point	 outthat the definition of lock-out contained in s. 2(e) of	 theTrade Disputes Act, 1929 (VII of 1929), had, in addition  tothe present definition under s. 2(1), included an additionalclause	describing  a  lock-out which  provided	 that  "suchclosing,  suspension or refusal occurs in consequence  of  adispute and is intended for the purpose of compelling  thosepersons or of aiding another employer in compelling  personsemployed  by  him  to  accept  terms  or  conditions  of  oraffecting  employment ". This clause has now  been  deleted.Even so, the essential character of a lock-out continues  tobe substantially the same.  Lock-out can be described as theantithesis  of	a  strike.  Just as a  strike  is  a  weaponavailable  to the employees for enforcing  their  industrialdemands, a lock-out is a weapon available to the employer topersuade  by  a coercive process the employees	to  see	 hispoint  of view and to accept his demands.  In  the  strugglebetween capital and labour the weapon of strike is availableto labour and is often used by it, so is the weapon of lock-out  available to the employer and can be used by him.	 Theuse  of	 both the weapons by the  respective  parties  must,however,  be subject to the relevant provisions of the	Act.Chapter	 V  which deals with strikes and  lock-outs  clearlybrings	out the antithesis between the two weapons  and	 thelimitations subject to which both of them must be exercised.Thus  the concept of lockout is essentially  different	fromthe concept of lay-off, and so where the closure of businessamounts	 to a lock-out under s. 2(1) it would be  impossibleto bring it within the scope of lay-off under s. 2(kkk).  Asobserved  by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in  M/S.   Presi-dency  Jute  Mills  Co. Ltd. v. Presidency  Jute  Mills	 Co.Employees' Union (2), in considering the essential characterof  a lock-out its dictionary meaning may be borne in  mind.According to the dictionary meaning(2)  [1952].L.A.C. 62.377lock-out  means " a refusal by the employer to furnish	workto the operatives except on conditions to be accepted by thelatter collectively ".Stated	broadly	 lay-off generally occurs  in  a  continuingbusiness, whereas a lock-out is the closure of the business.In the case of a lay-off, owing to the reasons specified  ins.  2(kkk) the employer is unable to give employment to	 oneor  more  workmen.  In the case of a lock-out  the  employercloses the business and locks out the whole body of  workmenfor  reasons which have no relevance to causes specified  ins. 2(kkk).  Thus the nature of the two concepts is  entirelydifferent  and so are their consequences.  In the case of  alay-off	 the employer may be liable to pay  compensation  asprovided  by  s.  25(C), (D) and (E) of the  Act;  but	thisliability can-not be invoked in the case of a lock-out.	 Theliability of the employer in cases of lock-out would  dependupon  whether the lock-out was justified and legal  or	not;but whatever the liability, the provisions applicable to thepayment	 of  lay-off compensation cannot be applied  to	 thecases of lockout.   Therefore, we hold that the lock-out  inthe present    case  was  not  a lay-off, and  as  such	 therespondents    are   not  entitled  to	claim  any   lay-offcompensation from the appellant.  Incidentally we would liketo add that the circumstances of this case clearly show thatthe  lock-out was fully justified.  The appellant's  Managerhad  been  violently attacked and the other members  of	 thestaff  working in the lower division were threatened by	 therespondents.  In such a case if the appellant locked out hisworkmen no grievance can be made against its conduct by	 therespondents.In the result the appeal is allowed, the order passed by theLabour	Court  is set aside and the complaint filed  by	 therespondents  under s. 33C is dismissed.	 There would  be  noorder as to costs.Appeal allowed.378