PETITIONER:N.   SUBRAMANIA IYER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE OFFICIAL RECEIVER, QUILONDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/05/1957BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.JAGANNADHADAS, B.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1958 AIR    1		  1958 SCR  257ACT:Insolvency-Receiver's application for annulment of  transfer-Onus-Finding in insolvency Proceeding, if res judicata-Goodfaith-Test--Travancore	Regulation VIII of 1090	 (=1915)  S.35(iii)-Travancore  General Clauses Act(IIof 1072=1897),  s.6(2) -Indian General Clauses Act (X of 1897), S. 2(22).HEADNOTE:An  usufructuary  mortgage  in	favour	of  the	 appellant'spredecessor-in-interest	 was  sought to be annulled  by	 theOfficial  Receiver as having been executed within two  yearsof  the adjudication of the mortgagors as insolvents,  underS. 35(iii) of the Travancore Regulation VIII of 1090 (=1915)as  not	 having	 been entered into in  good  faith  and	 forvaluable consideration.	 By an issue framed in the case	 theburden	of  proving  affirmatively  that  the  transfer	 wassupported  by  good  faith and	valuable  consideration	 wasthrown	on  the transferee.  There was	also  a	 preliminaryobjection  by  the Receiver that the  usufructuary  mortgagehaving	been  found  to	 be an	act  of	 insolvency  in	 theinsolvency  proceedings,  that	finding	 was  res   judicatabetween	 him and the transferee.  The trial judge  found  infavour	of the Receiver.  On appeal by the  transferee,	 theHigh  Court affirmed the order of the trial  judge  allowingthe  Receiver's	 application  for annulment  solely  on	 theground that the appellant had failed to prove his bona fidesin  the	 sense	that he had  entered  into  the	 transactionwithout due care and attention within the meaning of S. 2(6)of the Travancore and Cochin General Clauses Act.Held:	  that	the  courts below had erred in	placing	 theonus on the transferee and their orders must be set aside.It  is	the settled law in insolvency proceedings  that	 theburden	of  proving  that a particular	transaction  is	 notsupported  by good faith and valuable consideration lies  onthe Official Receiver who challenges the transaction.Official  Assignee  v.	Khoo  Saw  Cheow,  (1931)  A.C.	 67,Official Receiver v. P.L.K.M.R.M. Chettyar Firm, (1930) L.R.58  I.A. 115 and Pope v. Official Assignee, Rangoon,  (1933)L.R. 60 I.A. 362, relied on.Held further, that there was no scope for the application ofthe  principle	of res judicata in the instant case  as	 thematter	that  directly	arose for determination	 in  it	 waswhether	 the impugned transaction was not bona fide  or	 forvaluable   consideration  so  far  as  the  transferee	 wasconcerned and that was not in issue in the33258insolvency  proceedings, nor had he been found in such	pro-ceedings  to be privy to any act of insolvency	intended  todefeat or delay the creditors.Mahomed	 Siddique Yousuf v. official Assignee  of  Calcutta,(1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 93, considered.The  crucial question for decision in such a case  would  bewhether the transferee was wanting in bona fides in  respectof  the transfer sought to be annulled and the correct	testwould be the one of honesty as laid down by S. 2(22) Of	 theIndian	General	 Clauses Act and not that of  due  care	 andattention  as contemplated by S. 2(6) of the Travancore	 andCochin General Clauses Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 165 of 1953.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober 3, 1950, of the former Travancore Cochin High  Courtin A. S. No. 288 of 1120(T) arising out of the judgment	 andorder  dated the 3rd Thulum 1120 of the 2nd Judge,  DistrictCourt,	 Quilon in C.M.P. No. 2391 dated 15-8-1103  in	I.P.3/1100.K.   S. Krishnaswamy Iyengar, Alladi Kuppuswami and M. S. K.Sastri, for the appellant.N.   C. Chatterjee, M. R. Krishna Pillai and Sardar Bahadur,for respondent No. 1.1957, May 24.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySINHA  J.-This appeal by special leave is  directed  againstthe  concurrent	 orders	 of the Courts	below  allowing	 theOfficial  Receiver's application under s. 35  of  TravancoreRegulation VIII of 1090 (= 1915), to which we shall refer inthe  course of this judgment as the  Insolvency	 Regulation,for  annulling	the usufructuary mortgage (Ex.	I)  for	 Rs.75,000	dated  August  18, 1924, executed  by  a  number  ofpersons	 who  may  now	be  conveniently  described  as	 theinsolvents.   The  main question for determination  in	thisappeal	 on  behalf  of	 the  transferee  is   whether	 thetransaction  in his favour is within the third exception  tos.  35 aforesaid. (In this judgment we shall use  the  dateswith  reference to the Gregorian Calendar equivalent to	 thedates maintained under the Malayalam Calendar).259In  order to appreciate the arguments in this appeal  it  isnecessary  to state the following facts.  Koya Kunju  was  aflourishing  merchant at Quilon carrying on trade  in  piecegoods,	yarn, provisions etc.  He died in or about the	year1921  leaving  him  surviving his widow, two  sons  and	 twodaughters,  who	 jointly carried on the	 ancestral  businessthrough	 the  eldest son under a power	of  attorney.	Theyadded to the family business a tile factory and an oil mill.In  June-July  1924  the  sons	approached  the	 appellant'sfather,	 who  was a flourishing	 money-lender  living  aboutfifty to sixty miles away from Quilon at a place calledMankompu.  He agreed to advance the sum of Rs. 75,000 on theusufructuary mortgage of certain immovable properties in andnear  Quilon  belonging to the family, for  the	 purpose  ofcarrying on their trade and business after his two sons	 hadmade certain enquiries at Quilon about the status and  meansof the borrowers and whether the transaction would be  worththeir while.  After a draft had been made at the instance ofthe creditor, the mortgage bond and a lease deed granting  alease	of  the	 mortgaged  properties	to  the	  mortgagorsthemselves  bearing the same date, namely, August 18,  1924,were executed and registered by the heirs aforesaid.said  ofKoya  Kunju.   The  purpose of the loan	 is  stated  in	 thedocument  to  be the family necessity, namely,	carrying  ontrade  etc.  In lieu of interest on the Rs. 75,000  advancedat  the	 rate of nine per cent. per annum for  a  period  ofthree  years  the mortgaged properties,	 namely,  buildings,fields	and  coconut orchards etc., were said to  have	beendelivered  to the mortgagee who in his turn granted a  leaseback to the mortgagors on payment of a stated sum by way  ofannual	rents,	viz., Rs. 6,750, equivalent to	interest  atnine  per cent. on the principal sum advanced.	It was	alsostipulated in the lease deed that if rent was in arrears fortwo years, the lessees would surrender the properties to thelessor and accrued arrears of rent also would be a charge onthose  properties.  It is common ground that  the  mortgagedproperties were unencumbered at the date of the transaction,but  soon  after a hypothecation deed in favour of  a  thirdparty named Kadir Moideen260Rowther was executed on August 30, 1924, for the sum of	 Rs.78,859-15-0,  hypothecating  the  equity  of  redemption  inrespect	 of  the properties mortgaged to the  appellant	 andcertain	 other	properties.   The  second  bond	 which	willhereinafter be called the hypothecation bond, to distinguishit  from  the usufructuary mortgage bond  in  question,	 wasadmittedly  executed to liquidate the outstanding debts	 dueto the hypothecatee himself in respect of dealings in cloth,yarn and iron goods between the parties to that transaction.It  appears that those two parties were having	dealings  inthose commodities from about the year 1911.  Hence they werevery  well known to each other on account of their  businessdealings,   whereas   the  mortgagee  in  respect   of	 theusufructuary  mortgage	bond  in  question  was	 a  completestranger to the family of the mortgagors.  On September	 15,1924,  one  of the business creditors of the family  of	 themortgagors,S.  M.   Sheikh   Mohideen	Rowther,   made	  anapplication in the District Court of Quilon for adjudicatingthem as	  insolvents.  He implement the mortgagors, the fiveheirs  aforesaid  of  Koya  Kunju.   Amongst  the  acts	  ofinsolvency  were  mentioned  the  transactions	between	 theinsolvents  and	 the appellant and  the	 hypothecation	bondaforesaid.   In his affidavit in answer, the  first  counterpetitioner for himself and as agent of the other members  ofthe  family  admitted their joint trading business  and	 thedebts incurred by his firm.  He also admitted the debts	 dueunder  the  usufructuary mortgage bond in question  and	 thehypothecation  bond aforesaid and ended by saying  that	 thedebts of the counter petitioners including the debts coveredby the said usufructuary mortgage bond and the hypothecationbond  amounted	to two and a half lakhs of rupees  and	thattheir assets were worth not less than seven lakhs of rupees.He denied that they had committed any acts of insolvency  orhad  done  anything to delay or defeat their  creditors	 andexpressed  their  readiness  to pay the	 debts	due  to	 thepetitioning creditor.  A number of other creditors also madesimilar	 applications  for adjudicating	 the  mortgagors  asinsolvents.  All those proceedings appear to have been261consolidated  and  the District Judge by  his  orders  datedAugust	 29,   1927,  adjudged	 the   counter	 petitionersinsolvents.  About the contents and effect of this order  ofadjudication  something	 more will have to be  said  in	 thecourse	of  this  judgment  while  dealing  with  the	mostimportant question of law raised by the learned counsel	 forthe  Official  Receiver.  By his orders	 dated	October	 19,1924, the District Judge appointed the Official Receiver  asthe   interim  receiver	 in  respect  of   the	 insolvent'sproperties  to	take  immediate	 possession  thereof.	 Theinterim	 receiver, Sri V. N. Narayana Pillai, made a  reportto  the court on February 11, 1925, stating inter alia	thatthe total yield of the properties mortgaged to the appellantcould  be  estimated  at Rs. 1,600 per	year  and  that	 theinsolvents  were not prepared to continue in  possession  ofthe mortgaged property at a rent of Rs. 6,750 as  stipulatedin  the	 lease	deed aforesaid;	 and  that,  therefore,	 themortgaged  property  was  not expected to  fetch  an  incomeequivalent  to	nine  per  cent. on  the  mortgage  bond  asstipulated.   The  rent having fallen in  arrears  over	 twoyears,	 the  mortgagee	 instituted  a	suit   against	 themortgagors,  impleading	 the  Official	Receiver  also	 forrecovery  of  arrears  of rent with interest,  as  also	 forrecovery_ of possession of the mortgaged property ; and	 thesuit  appears  to have been decreed for the  reliefs  prayedfor.   Since  then  the mortgagee appears to  have  been  indirect possession of the property.  It does not appear	thatin that suit any question as to the want of consideration orof bona fides of the mortgage bond was raised either by	 themortgagors themselves or by the Official Receiver.It  was on March 28, 1928, that the Official  Receiver	madehis application to the court praying "that the court may  bepleased	 to declare the transfers described in	schedule  A,void as against your petitioner".  Schedule A comprised	 theusufructuary mortgage bond aforesaid and the lease deed,  asalso  the  hypothecation bond for Rs.  78,859-15-0.   It  isremarkable  that no allegations of fact bearing on the	bonafides  of the transactions impeached are made in respect  ofthe mortgage bond in question.	After stating the insolvency262proceedings  and the fact of the execution of the  deeds  inschedule  A  and that the insolvency petition on  which	 theorder  of  adjudication was passed had been filed  in  courtwithin	two  years  after the dates of	transfer,  the	onlyrelevant  statement made in the petition is para. 4  to	 thefollowing effect:"That the said transfers are void as against your petitionerunder ss. 35 and 36 of the Insolvency Regulation."This  petition of the Official Receiver was opposed  by	 themortgagee's  son, N. Krishna Iyer, on his father's  behalf,'chiefly	 on  the ground that the mortgage was  a  bona	fidetransaction   for  valuable  consideration  which  was	 notaffected  by  the Insolvency Regulation, that  there  was  amisjoinder  of	parties	 and causes  of	 action,  apparentlyobjecting  to  the  Receiver filing  a	single	petition  inrespect	  of  the  usufructuary	 mortgage  deed	 arid.	 thehypothecation bond; and that it was barred by limitation andestoppel.  A number of issues were raised on July 24,  1929,the  most  important of them being the first  issue  to	 thefollowing effect :" Whether the otti and lease deeds impeached by the Receiverwere  executed in good faith and for valuable  consideration?"Other  issues  related to the formal issues in	bar  of	 theproceedings.. Before the learned District Judge (Mrs.	AnnaChandy) a preliminary objection was raised on behalf of	 theReceiver  to the effect that in view of the decision of	 theJudicial Committee of the Privy Council in Mahomed  SiddiqueYousuf v. Official Assignee of Calcutta (1), the matter	 wasres   judicata	between	 the  parties  and  the	  order	  ofadjudication  could be questioned only by an appeal  againstit, which had not been done.  The learned Judge gave  effectto that objection and held that the transferee was precludedfrom  agitating the matter and that his only remedy  was  byway of appeal against the order of adjudication.  This pointhas been very prominently raised by the learned counsel	 forthe  respondent, the Official Receiver, at the forefront  ofhis arguments and will(1)  (1943) L. R. 70 I. A. 93.263have  to  be dealt with at the proper  place.	The  learnedJudge  held  on	 the merits that Ex.   I,  the	usufructuarymortgage bond, was not for the full consideration stated  inthe  deed  but	that only Rs. 20,000 had been  paid  to	 themortgagors  and	 that in any event the transaction  did	 notrepresent  a bona fide transfer.  As the hypothecation	bondis  not	 the subject matter of this appeal, it	is  no	morenecessary to follow the course of the proceedings in respectof   that  transaction.	  The  Receiver's  application	 wastherefore allowed, both on the ground of incompetency of thetransferee  to challenge the adjudication order and  on	 thefinding	 that it was a "fraudulent transfer".  On appeal  bythe  mortgagee,	 the learned Judges of the High	 Court	dis-agreed	with the trial Judge and held that the	decision  inMahomed	 Siddique YOUSUF's case (1) could not stand  in	 theway  of the appellant and that the entire  consideration  ofRs.  75,000  had  been	proved to  have	 been  paid  to	 themortgagors  but agreed with the trial Judge in holding	thatthe transaction was not made in good faith in the sense thatit  had not been entered into with due care  and  attention.In  the	 result the appeal was	dismissed.   The  transfereeprayed for a certificate of fitness to appeal to this Court,but the High Court refused that application.  The  appellantthen moved this Court and obtained special leave to appeal.A  number of points were raised on behalf of  the  appellantand at the threshold of the arguments it was contended,	 andin  our opinion rightly, that the courts below had erred  inthrowing   the	 burden	 on  the   transferee	of   provingaffirmatively  that the transaction impeached,	namely,	 theusufructuary  mortgage	bond  dated  August  18,  1924,	 wassupported  by  good faith and valuable	consideration.	 TheJudicial Committee of the Privy Council laid it down in	 thecase of Official Assignee v. Khoo Saw Cheow (2), that upon atrue construction of the Bankruptcy Ordinance of the StraitsSettlements, s. 50, sub-s. (3), which in terms is similar tothe  provisions of s. 35 of the Insolvency  Regulation,	 theonus  is  upon	the  Official  Assignee	 to  prove  that   aconveyance which he was seeking to set aside was not made ingood faith and for valuable consideration.  In(1) (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 93.(2) [1931] A. C. 67.264that  case the trial Judge had ruled that the onus of  prooflay  upon the transferee and had set aside  the	 transactionupon  failure of proof led by the transferee.  On appeal  itwas held that the trial Judge had misdirected himself as  tothe onus and that as the result of the misdirection was veryserious in that it had coloured the whole outlook as to	 thefacts and had substantially prejudiced the appellant's	casea  retrial  was necessary.  The Privy Council  affirmed	 thedecision  of  the Appeal Court and  dismissed  the  OfficialAssignee's  appeal, the respondent-transferee not  appearingbefore	the  Judicial  Committee.   In	the  same  year	 theJudicial  Committee followed the aforesaid precedent in	 thecase of Official Receiver v. P.L.K.M.R.M. Chettyar Firm (1),which was a case under the Provincial Insolvency Act,  1920.On  a  consideration of the provisions of s. 53 of  the	 Acttheir Lordships reaffirmed the proposition laid down in	 theearlier case of that very year reported in Official Assigneev.  Khoo. Saw Cheow(2).	 Their Lordships examined the  termsof  s.	53  and s. 50 of Ordinance No.	44  of	the  StraitsSettlements dealt with in that previous decision and came tothe  conclusion that they were in substance the	 same.	 Thethird  decision of their Lordships of the Privy	 Council  tothe  same effect is reported in Pope v.	 Official  Assignee,Rangoon (3).  This case went up in appeal from a decision ofthe Rangoon High Court under the provisions of s. 55 of	 thePresidency  Towns  Insolvency  Act.   In  this	case   theirLordships observed further that if the transaction impeachedwas a real and not fictitious one, the receiver could not besaid  to have brought the case within the section unless  heproved	that  the transferee knew that	the  transferor	 wasinsolvent at the time the transfer was made, even though thetransfer was of the entire assets of the transferor.   Thesethree decisions of the Judicial Committee settled the law inthis  country  contrary to what had been  the  consensus  ofjudicial  opinion  previously, that the	 initial  burden  ofproving that the transaction impeached had not been made(1)  (1930) L. R.58 1. A. 115.(2)  [1931] A.C. 67.(3) (1933) L.R. 60 I.A. 362,265in  good  faith and for valuable consideration lies  on	 theparty  seeking	to set aside the transaction.	The  learnedcounsel	 for  the  respondent was not  able  to	 adduce	 anyreasons to the contrary and it must therefore be taken	thatit is settled law in insolvency proceedings that the  burdenof  proof  lies	 on the Official Assignee  or  Receiver	 whochallenges  the	 transaction.	In  this  case,	 as  alreadypointed	 out, the issue framed in terms laid the  burden  ofproof on the transferee, the appellant.	 He led the evidencerecording  of  which  began on November 21,  1930,  and	 theevidence  of his witnesses, C. P. Ws.  1 to 7  was  recordedbetween	 November  21,	1930  and  November  20,  1932,	  ondifferent dates.  C. P. W. 8, one of the insolvents, appearsto  have  been	examined  in  the  interest  of	 the  secondmortgagee,  that is to say, in support of the  hypothecationbond.  He was crossed on behalf of the petitioning creditor,as also of the appellant.  He was examined and crossexaminedin February and March 1933.  It was then for the first	timethat  it was alleged on behalf of the mortgagors  that	onlyRs.  20,000 out of Rs. 75,000 secured under the mortgage  inquestion  had actually been paid and that the remaining	 Rs.55,000	had  so far remained unpaid.  More will have  to  besaid about this aspect of the case later.  C. P. W. 10,	 oneof  the other mortgagors was examined on the same  lines  ashis  brother, C.P.W. 8. C.P.W. 12 is the younger brother  ofS.K.  Kadir Moideen Rowther, the second mortgagee,  who	 hadtaken the hypothecation bond.  He was examined on October 9,1935.	Curiously enough, nothing appears to  have  happeneduntil  the first Official Receiver, V. N.  Narayana  Pillai,aged  64  years,  was  examined as  C.P.W.  13	on  November29,1943.    It	was  he	 who  had  started   the   annulmentproceedings  in	 respect of the mortgage bond  in  question.His evidence and conduct of the proceedings will have to  bedealt  with  presently.	 We have pointed out  the  extremelydilatory  way  in which the proceedings	 in  the  InsolvencyCourt  were conducted.	The annulment proceedings  commencedin  1928 and were determined by the Court of first  instanceby its orders dated October 19, 1944,34For  a	period	of more than  sixteen  years  the  annulmentproceedings  were kept hanging.	 For whose benefit  it	doesnot  appear.   We  would fain believe  that  this  extremelydilatory  way  of  dealing  with  litigation  involving	 thebusiness  community  is	 not a habit in	 that  part  of	 thecountry and that the present case is only an exception.	  Onappeal the High Court has noticed the delay but without	 anyapparent disapproval.  We have not been able to discover anyreasons,  valid or otherwise, for this callous disregard  ofpublic time and litigants' interest.Realising that the annulment proceedings had taken a dubiouscourse on an issue wrongly throwing the onus of proof on thetransferee,  the learned counsel for the Receiver sought  tosupport	 the  order annulling the encumbrance on  the  shortground that the matter was res judicata between the Receiverand the incumbrancer on the authority of the decision of thePrivy  Council	in  Mahomed  Siddique  Yousuf  v.   OfficialAssignee  of  Calcutta	(1).  That was an  appeal  from	 theCalcutta  High Court in a case arising under the  PresidencyTowns  Insolvency  Act,	 III  of 1909.	 In  that  case	 theJudicial  Committee, following the well established rule  inEngland as laid down in the leading case of Ex parte LearoydIn  re Foulds (2), has held that the order  of	adjudicationbased  on  the allegation that one of the  several  acts  ofinsolvency was the impugned transfer was conclusive  againstthe  transferee	 in  subsequent	 proceedings  taken  by	 theOfficial Assignee to set aside the transfer by virtue of  s.116,  sub-s.  (2) of the Presidency  Towns  Insolvency	Act,1909.	Their  Lordships have pointed out in the  course  oftheir  judgment that the provisions of the Presidency  TownsInsolvency  Act	 then before their Lordships were  in  termssimilar	 to  those of the Bankruptcy Act of 1869  which	 hadbeen repeated in the subsequent Acts of 1883 and 1914.	Theyalso point out that it is rather anomalous that the decisionshould adversely affect a party who was not before the courtwhen  the adjudication order was made.	But they  held	thatthe  words  of the statute and the  requirements  of  publicpolicy in relation to(1) (1943) L.R. 70, I.A. 93.(2) (1878) 10 Ch.  D. 3.267adjudication   proceedings  were  enough  to  outweigh	 anyconsiderations	of  hardship to individuals.  On  this	viewthey  affirmed the decision of the Calcutta High  Court	 andoverruled that of the Madras High Court in Official Assigneeof  Madras v. O.R.M.O.R.S. Firm(1).  Naturally	very  strongreliance   was	placed	by  the	 learned  counsel  for	 therespondent-Receiver on that case.  It was argued that as theorder  of  adjudication	 dated August  29,  1927,  had	withreference  to the transaction in question,  amongst  others,held  that the debtors had committed acts of  insolvency  byexecuting  the deed (Ex.  I) with a view to defeat or  delaytheir creditors, it was no more an open controversy and	 thefindings  then	recorded  were	conclusive  in	the  presentproceedings.   There  are, in  our  opinion,  insurmountabledifficulties in the way of the respondents on this aspect ofthe  case.  It was stated by the petitioning creditors	thatthe  counter  petitioners  (insolvents)	 had  executed	 theusufructuary mortgage bond in question and the hypothecationdeed  in respect of almost all their properties with a	viewto defeat or delay the other creditors.	 Issue 5 was  raisedin these terms:"  Have	 the  defendants committed  acts  of  insolvency  asalleged in the petition ? " and  the finding of the court was that those were  acts  ofinsolvency   "	with  intent  to  defeat  or   delay   theircreditors."  It is said that these findings are	 resjudicatabetween	 the Receiver and the appellant.  Even so, there  isno  finding that the transferee was privy to such acts.	  Itwas  not necessary to find at that stage, and it has not  interms been found, that the transaction impugned in this casewas  not bonafide so far as the transferee is  concerned  orwithout	 consideration	matters	 which	directly  arise	 fordetermination  in  the annulment proceedings leading  up  tothis  appeal.  Hence, even assuming that the rule laid	downby  their  Lordships of the Judicial  Committee	 in  MohomedSiddique  Yousuf  v. Official Assignee of Calculta(2)  in  acase  arising  under the Presidency  Towns  Insolvency	Act,applies	 to  a	case  like  the	 present  governed  by	 theInsolvency Regulation, which follows more closely the(1) (1926) I.L.R. 50 Mad. 541.(2) (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 93.268Provincial  Insolvency	Act  and not  the  Presidency  TownsInsolvency Act, the present controversy is not barred by anyfinding in the order of adjudication.  In this appeal we areconcerned with the bona fides of the transferee.  Nor has itbeen found that there was no valuable consideration for	 themortgage.   Hence, without pronouncing on the  applicabilityof the decision aforesaid of the Judicial Committee it	mustbe held that the question under s. 35 is still open.Having	disposed  of  the preliminary  questions  raised  onbehalf	of  the parties, we have now to determine  the	mainquestion in controversy, namely, whether it has been  provedthat  the usufructuary mortgage bond dated  August  18,1924,was  not made in good faith and for valuable  consideration.Section 35 of Travancore Regulation VIII of 1090 (= 1915) isin these terms:"Any  transfer	of  property not being(i)  a  transfer	madebefore, or at, and in consideration of, marriage,(ii)or	a transfer made to, or for, the wife or children  ofthe   transferor  of  property	that  has  accrued  to	 thetransferor  in consideration of the marriage or in right  ofhis wife,(iii)or	 a  transfer  made  in	favour	of  a  purchaser  orincumbrancer in good faith and for valuable consideration,shall,	if the transferor is adjudged insolvent	 within	 twoyears  after the date of the transfer, be void	against	 thereceiver, and may be annulled by the Court."This  section  is  equivalent to s.  36	 of  the  ProvincialInsolvency Act (III of 1907) and to s. 53 of the  ProvincialInsolvency  Act (V of 1920), except for the addition of	 thesecond	 exception  which  was	apparently  added   in	 theTravancore  law	 to make it in consonance  with	 local	lawsrelating to devolution of family property, and secondly thatthe  word  "void" in the last clause of the section  in	 theInsolvency  Regulation	and  in	 s.  36	 of  the  ProvincialInsolvency  Act	 of 1907 has been changed  into	 "voidable".Regulation  VIII  of  1915 aforesaid has  been	replaced  byTravancore269Regulation  VIII of 1108 (1932).  Section 53 of	 the  latterhas taken the place of s. 35 of the former and is exactly inthe same terms except for the fact that the word "void"	 hasbeen  changed into "voidable", thus bringing the  Regulationof 1932 in line with the Act of 1920.It is not necessary for the purposes of this case to go intothe  question of whether any legal significance attaches  tothe  change  of	 the word " void" into	"  voidable  ".	 Thelegislative  history  of the law relating  to  annulment  oftransfers  or encumbrances made or created by a	 person	 whohas  since been declared insolvent, indicated  above,  showsthat  the law in the united State of Travancore	 and  Cochinwas  the same as the law in what used to be  called  BritishIndia.	 The question now is, has the Receiver on  whom	 theburden	of  proof lay, as shown above,	been  successful  indischarging  that burden.  It has not been argued before  usby  the	 learned counsel for the Receiver  that	 the  courtsbelow  were  not  in error in discussing  the  evidence	 anddeciding  this controversy on the basis that the burden	 Jayon  the transferee to prove that the transfer in his  favourwas  bona fide and for consideration.  If the burden lay  onthe transferee, he would have to show not only that he	paid-some consideration but that he paid valuable  considerationand  that consideration was paid bona fide.  As to  what  isthe  legal  import  of	"  bona	 fide"	will  be   discussedpresently.  But we are in this case proceeding on the law sofar settled in this country after the decisions aforesaid ofthe Privy Council that the burden lies on the Receiver.	 Thecontrary  proposition  has not been pressed upon us  and  weneed  not therefore pronounce upon that.  If the burden	 layon  the	 Receiver,  in	our  opinion,  his  application	 forannulment  can be allowed on proof either that there was  noconsideration for the transaction or that the  considerationwas  so	 inadequate as to raise the presumption of  want  ofgood faith.  Alternatively, the Receiver may also succeed onshowing that though there was valuable consideration for thetransaction  impeached, there was want of good faith in	 thesense270that  the transferee knowing all the circumstances of  the,,transferor who had since been adjudged an insolvent  enteredinto the transaction with a view to screening the assets  ofthe  insolvent	from the Receiver in  whom  the	 insolvent'sproperty vests for the benefit of the creditors.  Such	willbe  mostly  cases of benami transactions in favour  of	somerelative  of the insolvent or a person in whom he  has	fullconfidence  that he will hold it ultimately for the  benefitof the insolvent or persons in whom he may be interested. Orit  may be that a person finding himself over head and	earsin  debts  wishes to convert his assets into  liquid  assetswith the collusion or connivance of the transferee.  In bothcases the intention clearly is to shield the assets  againstthe  claims  of	 creditors and in  such	 cases,	 though	 thetransfer may have been for consideration, either adequate orotherwise,  but	 having	 been entered into with	 a  view  todefraud	 or  delay  the creditors, the	transferor  and	 thetransferee  sharing  the common intention,  the	 transactionmust  be  annulled and the assets must be brought  into	 thecommon	hotchpotch  for	 the  benefit  of  the	 insolvent'screditors.Though the learned District Judge held that only Rs.  20,000had  been  paid by the mortgagee to the insolvents  and	 Rs.55,000 out of Rs. 75,000, the stated amount of the  mortgagemoney,	had remained unpaid, the High Court has	 found	thatthe  entire  consideration  passed.   If  this	finding	  iscorrect,  then	the fact that such a large amount  had	beenpaid  by the mortgagee would take him a long way to  successin  proving the bona fides of the transaction.	But  it	 hasbeen  argued  by  the learned counsel  for  the	 respondent-Receiver  that,	 finding  is  not  correct.   It  has	beenstrenuously  argued  on behalf of the  respondent  that	 themortgage  bond in question was without	consideration.	 TheOfficial Receiver had also filed a memorandum of  objectionsin the High Court challenging the correctness of the findingby  the	 learned  District Judge that Rs. 20,000  had  as  amatter	of  fact been paid to the transferors.	 As  on	 thequestion   of  consideration  the  two	courts	below	havematerially  differed in their conclusions, the	question  isopen271before	us.   We  have, therefore, to examine  how  far	 thetransaction  in	 question was  for  valuable  consideration.Before	advancing this large sum of money the  creditor	 haddeputed	 his two advocate sons, C.P. Ws.  1 and 2,  to	makeenquiries  into	 the  antecedents of  the  persons  who	 hadapplied for the loan and as to whether they were financiallysound and otherwise desirable persons to deal with.  The twoyoung men who had just entered upon their legal career	wentand  stayed with a relation of theirs who has been  examinedas C. P. W. 6, Venkitarama Iyer Ramakrishna Iyer, who was atthe  relevant dates posted as Assistant Excise	Commissionerat  Quilon.  This gentleman being interested in the  welfareof the family of the intending lenders, claims to have	madeconfidential enquiries from respectable merchants at  Quilonand  told  his	two young guests  that	the  borrowers	werepersons	 of position and good business reputation  and	thatthey  had ample unencumbered properties on the	security  ofwhich advance up to a lakh of rupees could be made.  The twosons  of the mortgagee having satisfied themselves that	 theproposed  mortgagors were persons of good status in  societyand sound financial position reported to their father who onthe  strength of the reports by his sons agreed to lend	 Rs.75,000	on a first mortgage of properties  reportedly  worthmore  than  at least a lakh of rupees.	The  mortgagee	alsoexamined  himself as C.P.W. 7. The father and the  two	sonshave given evidence in support of their case that out of theRs.  75,000 agreed to be advanced on the mortgage when	someof  the mortgagors went with the registered document to	 themortgagee's  place, Rs. 55,000 was paid in cash to  them  onthe  basis of the receipt (Ex.	LIV) dated August 20,  1924.The  remaining	Rs. 20,000, according to the  evidence,	 waspaid  later.   Those payments were made in  six	 instalmentsbetween September 1, and September 9, 1924, as evidenced  byreceipts (Exs.	LVII and LVIII) and endorsements on letters,Exs.   LIX(a),	LXI(a),	 LXIV(a)  and  LXV(a).	 All   thesepayments are also supported by the corresponding entries  inthe books of account regularly kept by272the  mortgagee and proved in court as Exs.  LXVII  to  LXXIIseries.	  Of the six instalments paid as aforesaid, some  ofthem  were  paid to the mortgagors' creditors  and  some  ofthose creditors have been examined.  C.P.W. 4 admits  havingreceived  Rs.  2,500 and endorsed receipt of the  same,	 Ex.LIX(a).	  C.P.W. 3 similarly speaks of having  received	 Rs.1,500 and endorsed receipt of the same, Ex.  LXIV(a) and  iscorroborated  by  his accountant, C.P.W. 9, who	 proves	 theledger and day book, Exs.  LXXX and LXXXI.  Thus we have notonly  the  evidence of the mortgagee and his  relations	 butalso of third parties, creditors of the insolvents,  provingthe  passing of consideration.	The case does not rest	onlyupon   oral   testimony.   It  is  amply   corroborated	  bycontemporaneous	 entries in books of account  maintained  bythe  lender himself and by third parties who have been	paidby him on account of the mortgagors.  This considerable bodyof  oral  and  documentary  evidence  is  supported  by	 theadmissions  of	the  mortgagors, not in	 the  mortgage	bonditself	which stand rebutted, but by a series of  admissionsof receipt of the entire consideration money in the  severalreceipts  and endorsements made by some of them.   All	thisvoluminous  evidence has been very carefully  considered  bythe learned Chief Justice at pages 31 to 34 of the  judgmentof  the	 High Court.  We need not repeat all that  has	beensaid by the High Court for recording the finding that it wascoiistrained  to differ from the conclusions of the  learnedDistrict  Judge and to hold that Ex.  I "is fully  supportedby  consideration  ".  As  already  indicated,	neither	 themortgagors  themselves	nor the Official Receiver  in  theirpleadings   made  out  a  case	that  the  transaction	 wasunsupported by consideration or that the consideration	paidwas  not  full amount shown in the document as	having	beenadvanced or that a much smaller sum like only Rs. 20,000 hadbeen actually paid.  It has been shown above with  referenceto  the dates of the examination of witnesses that C.P.	 Ws.1 to 7 had been examined and their evidence recorded betweenNovember  21, 1930, and November 20, 1932.  Until that	dateit was not even suggested to those			    273witnesses in cross-examination that only Rs. 20,000 had beenpaid  and no more.  For the first time on February 4,  1933,when one of the mortgagors was examined as C.P.W. 8, it	 wasalleged	 that  only  Rs. 20,000 had  been  received  by	 themortgagors,  which  amount  they paid  to  their  creditors.C.P.W.	10,  the second of the mortgagors, was	examined  onJune  12,  1933.   He  does  not  in  any  way	improve	 theReceiver's  case  that	the  transaction  was  without	con-sideration.   He does not even say that only Rs. 20,000	 outof  the consideration stated in the mortgage bond  had	beenreceived  by  the  mortgagors.	Lastly,	 the  then  Receiverhimself	 was examined as C. P. W. 13 on November  29,  1943.This  gentleman, who is described in the judgments below  asone of the leading advocates, does not appear to have  takenhis  duty as a Receiver very seriously.	 He does not  appearto have examined the insolvents themselves or their books ofaccount	 carefully to find out the exact financial  positionof this trading family.	 He seems to suggest in his evidencethat  at the material dates the Quilon Bank was	 functioningand   that   the   insolvents  "did   not   get	  additionalaccommodation  in  the said bank or the	 other	hundi  shopsduring 1099" (1923-24).	 These statements, to put it mildly,are disingenuous.  In the first instance, they would suggestthat  the insolvents had borrowings from the Quilon Bank  orother hundi shops and secondly that their financial positionwas  so embarrassed that the said bank or other hundi  shopshad refused to give them any further advance of money.	As amatter of fact, it is nobody's case that the insolvents	 hadat any time any dealings with the Quilon Bank.	We know fromthe  evidence that the insolvents owed to the Imperial	Bankanything  between  Rs.	30,000 to,  Rs.	 40,000.   Either  aportion	 or  the  whole of the dues of the  Bank  have	beenliquidated.   The  evidence  is not specific.	One  of	 themortgagors  claims  to have paid a portion of  the  ImperialBank's	dues  by  selling ornaments of	the  ladies  of	 hisfamily,	 thereby directly suggesting that no portion of	 themortgagee's  money was utilised for payment of the  dues  ofthe Imperial35274Bank.	The  High  Court  rightly  refused  to	accept	 themortgagors' belated attempt to prove by their bare testimonythat  any  amount out of the consideration of  the  mortgagebond  in  question  had	 remained  unpaid.   The  Receiver'sevidence was directed mostly to making statements suggestingthat  the  mortgagee  had not made such	 enquiry  about	 thefinancial  position  and  status  of  the  mortgagors  as  areasonable  man of business would do.  He has not  made	 anydefinite  statement that the mortgage bond in  question	 waswithout	 consideration.	  In cross-examination he  has	beenconstrained  to	 admit	that he did  not  remember  to	haveexamined  the  mortgagor who was in charge of  the  business(first counter petitioner).  He admits that it is usual	 foran Official Receiver to examine the insolvent.	He has	saidfurther that he did not consider it necessary to examine theinsolvents regarding the subject-matter of the petition	 forannulment.  He also admitted that he had not examined any ofthe accounts to see whether the insolvents had received	 theentire	consideration of the mortgage in question, and	that"the  mortgagee	 Nilakanta  Iyer is a  very  rich  man.	  Myinformation is that the insolvents had no dealings with	 himbefore	the  insolvency." He was also questioned as  to	 theinsolvents' dealings with the Imperial Bank and he gave	 thevery vague answer that he was not sure as to what amount wasdue  to the bank.  He also admitted that he had	 never	seenthe mortgagee under Ex. 1, nor bad he asked him anything  inconnection  with  the mortgage, and that the  mortgagee	 hadobtained  a  decree and in execution of the said  decree  hetook delivery of the property which was in his possession asReceiver.   According to him, the properties covered by	 theusufructuary mortgage bond and the hypothecation bond  wouldbe  worth  about a lakh and a half rupees.   It	 would	thusappear from the statements of the Receiver himself as C.P.W.13 examined about 19 years after the insolvency	 proceedingsbegan,	that he had not made such enquiries as he was  boundto make as Official Receiver.From  what  has been said above there cannot  be  the  leastdoubt that if the burden lay on the Receiver275to  prove  that	 the transaction  in  question	was  withoutconsideration,	he has hopelessly failed to  discharge	thatburden.	 We are prepared to go further and say that even  ifthe burden were on the transferee to show affirmatively thathe  had	 paid  the  full consideration,	 we  would  have  nohesitation  in confirming the findings of the High Court  onthis  part  of the case which have been arrived at  after  avery  full  and fair consideration of the  evidence  on	 therecord,	 pro and con, though there is very  little  evidenceadduced in support of the allegation that the mortgage	bondin question was without consideration or full consideration.The finding on the question of consideration being  entirelyin  favour  of	the  appellant-mortgagee,  the,	 only  otherserious	 question which remains to be considered is  whetherthe  transaction was bona fide.	 We have  already  indicatedthat  it is settled law not only of the Insolvency  Acts  inEngland but also in this country that it is not necessary inannulment  proceedings to prove that the transferor who	 hasbeen  subsequently  adjudged an insolvent should  have	beenhonest and straightforward in the matter of the	 transactionimpeached.   If lie was really so, there would not  be	muchdifficulty in coming to the conclusion that the	 transactionas  a  whole  was bona fide.  Even if  the  mortgagors	werewanting	 in  bona fides and assuming that to be	 so  in	 thepresent	 case,	the  crucial question still  remains  to  beanswered.   Unless  it	is found  that	the  transferee	 waswanting	 in  bona  fides in respect of	the  transaction  inquestion,  he cannot be affected by the dishonest course  ofconduct	 of  the  transferor.	Has it	been  shown  by	 theevidence  on  the record that the mortgagee was a  party  orprivy  to the dishonest intentions of the mortgagors  in  sofar  as	 they  may have intended to defeat  or	delay  theircreditors by executing the mortgage bond?  The courts below,and  particularly the High Court, have taken the  view	thatthe  mortgagee	had failed affirmatively to prove  his	bonafides.	This conclusion is based upon the consideration thatthe  General Clauses Act (II of 1072)=(1897), in cl. (6)  ofs.  2 provides that "Nothing is said to be done or  believedin good faith which is done or believed276without due care and attention." Applying this definition of"good faith" to the present case, the High Court came to theconclusion  that  the  mortgagee has  not  proved  that	 themortgage  transaction  was entered into with "due  care	 andattention".   The  United  State of  Travancore	 and  CochinInterpretation and General Clauses Act (VII of	1125)=(1950)repeats the same definition which appears to have been takenfrom  the  definition of the term from	the  Madras  GeneralClauses Act (1 of 1891).  The definition of "good faith"  inthe  Indian  General  Clauses Act (X of 1897)  is  in  theseterms:" A thing shall be deemed to be done in good faith where  itis in fact done honestly, whether it is done negligently  ornot."The High Court was of the opinion that if the definition  of"good  faith"  contained in the Indian General	Clauses	 Actquoted	 above	were  to  apply	 to  the   case,   differentconsiderations might arise.  But the definition of that termas  quoted above in the Travancore-Cochin Act is  different.Applying  that	definition  to the present  case,  the	HighCourt's conclusion was that the appellant-mortgagee had	 notshown  due  care  and  attention  while	 entering  into	 thetransaction.	In  this  connection  it  is  necessary	  todetermine  whether the High Court was right in applying	 thetest  aforesaid in determining the question of	bona  fides.We have to find which of the two tests, the one laid down inthe  General Clauses Act of Travancore-Cochin or  the  otherlaid  down  in	the  Indian  Act,  is  more  appropriate  toproceedings  in insolvency.  Act 11 of 1070 (1897), even  asAct  VII  of  1125 (1950),  contains  the  following  savingclause-"Unless	 there	be  something repugnant in  the	 subject  orcontext."  As  a  matter of fact, these words  or  words  tosimilar effect are to be found in all General Clauses  Acts.The  question, therefore, naturally arises whether there  isanything  in  the  subject  or	context	 of  the  InsolvencyRegulation  which is repugnant to the idea of  applying	 thetest of due care and attention.	 The law of insolvency	aimsat a just and equal distribution of the assets of a  person,who has suffered loss277in  trade  or business or otherwise, amongst  his  creditorswhose  debts  are  provable under the law;  and	 provides  amachinery  for	expeditious disposal of his  assets  amongstthose  entitled.   The	law is	calculated  to	advance	 theinterest  of  the business community.  On the one  hand,  itprotects the creditors by compelling the insolvent to  placeall  his  assets  at  the  disposal  of	 the  court  withoutconcealing  any	 of his assets.	 Similarly it  protects	 theinterests of an honest alienee or an honest secured creditorof the insolvent.  On the other hand, it protects an  honestdebtor	 from	harassment  by	creditors   who	  may	takesimultaneous proceedings for realization of their debts fromtheir common debtor even by sending him to civil prison.  Itis necessary for the promotion of trade and commerce that anhonest	debtor	should	be released  from  his	multifariousobligations  as soon as his assets have been placed  at	 thedisposal of the court for the benefit of his creditors.	  Italso  lays down penal provisions for punishing	a  dishonestdebtor.	 It also makes provisions for saving the debtor	 andhis  creditors from the unscrupulous conduct of persons	 whomay have entered into unconscionable bargains with a  personwho is financially involved.  The law of insolvency is aimedagainst	 a  dishonest debtor but not necessarily  against  adebtor	who has suffered loss in his trade or business as  aresult of transactions which may not have been done with duecare and attention.  Business sometimes is an adventure	 andvery  often involves risks which cannot be  easily  foreseeneven  by persons of common prudence.  Annulment	 proceedingsare  aimed at transactions between a debtor who	 has  becomeinsolvent and a creditor who, knowing the true state of	 thedebtor's crashing business, has taken undue advantage of theembarrassed  financial position of the debtor.	In  view  ofthese considerations, in our opinion, the test of honesty ismore  appropriate than the test of due care  and  attention.It  may	 be added that a General Clauses Act is	 enacted  inorder to shorten language used in parliamentary	 legislationand  to avoid repetition of the same words in the course  ofthe same piece of legislation.	Such an Act is not meant  togive278a   hide-bound	meaning	 to  terms  and	 phrases   generallyoccurring  in  legislation.   That is  the  reason  why	 thedefinition  section  contains words like  "Unless  there  isanything  repugnant  in the subject or context."  Words	 andphrases	 have  either a very narrow significance or  a	verywide  significance according as the context and	 subject  ofthe legislation requires the one or the other meaning to  beattached to those words or phrases.  The books contain	manyillustrations showing that the same words have been used  indifferent  senses in different contexts.   The	significanceattaching   to	the  expression	 "  good  faith	 "  in	 theTravancore  Cochin General Clauses Act is, in terms  of	 thedefinition  of that phrase in the Indian Penal Code  and  inthe  Indian Limitation Act.  The Indian General Clauses	 Actapplies	 to all legislation after the coming into effect  ofthat  Act.   The definition of "good faith"  in	 the  IndianGeneral Clauses Act would have been applicable to the IndianLimitation  Act also but the legislature in its	 wisdom	 hasgiven a special definition of "good faith "  different	fromthe  one in- the Indian General Clauses Act advisedly.	 TheIndian Penal Code which came into existence earlier than theIndian	General Clauses Act contains its own definitions  toserve  its  own	 special  purposes.   The  Travancore-CochinGeneral	 Clauses Act, 1950, of course, applies by virtue  ofs.2  to	 all enactments then in force or  passed  after	 thecommencement of the Act unless there was anything  repugnantin the subject or context.  Hence it cannot be said that thedefinition  of	" good faith " as contained in	the  GeneralClauses	 Act of 1950 must apply in the same sense  to  everypiece  of legislation to which it may apply irrespective  ofthe subject or the context.  The Insolvency Regulation is onthe  same  lines  as  the  Provincial  Insolvency  Act	 andtherefore must be understood in the same sense.	 If that  isthe  correct approach to the law of in-solvency,  a  securedcreditor  who has advanced money to a debtor honestly,	eventhough he may not have taken all due precautions, would	 notcome  within the mischief of s. 35.  It must, therefore,  beheld  that  the test of good faith as laid down in  the	 lawgenerally applicable to Indian279Statutes  is  more  appropriate	 to  proceedings  under	 theinsolvency law.	 That being so it must also be held that thecourts below have approached the question of bona fides froma wrong standpoint and have applied a wrong test.Having come to the conclusion that honesty is the test to beapplied in judging the bona fides of the creditor, a securedcreditor  in  this  case,  we have to see  how	far  he	 hassatisfied  that	 test.	 In this connection  it	 has  to  beremembered  that it is common ground that the mortgagee	 hadabsolutely  nothing  to do with the  mortgagors	 before	 themortgage  transaction  was  concluded.	There  is  no  bloodrelationship  or any other kind of relationship which  couldbe  urged  as  the  motive for	entering  into	a  dishonesttransaction in the sense that the creditor had joined  handswith  the  debtors  in screening the  property	against	 theclaims	of  the	 latters' creditors.  It  may  be  that	 thedebtors were financially involved; but there is no  evidenceon  the record even to suggest that the mortgagee was  awareor  apprised of their true financial position.	We  have  nodoubt  in  our	mind that if the  mortgagee  had  the  leastsuspicion that he would have to face a prolonged  litigationto  realise his money from the debtors, he would  have	beenthe  last person to enter into the transaction in  question.He was certainly interested in earning good interest on	 hiscapital.   But that is not the same thing as saying that  hehad  entered  into a dishonest deal with  persons  who	wereabout  to  crash in their business.  It is  also  noteworthythat  the  insolvent's ancestor had died  only	about  threeyears  before  the  transaction in  question.	During	thisperiod	of three years they had added to their	business  byhaving	a  file factory and an oil mill.  That	is  not	 theconduct	 of  a family which was about to crash.	 It  may  bethat  they were much too ambitious to become  rich  quickly.But  it	 has  not  been suggested or  found  that  they	 hadindulged  in  unscrupulous  dealings in	 the  way  of  theirbusiness.   At least that was not their reputation at  aboutthe   time  the	 mortgage  transaction	was  entered   into.Otherwise  C.P.W. 6, the Assistant Commissioner	 of  Excise,the mortgagee's280relation, would certainly not have advised them, being theirwell wisher, to enter into a hazardous transaction.  We havenot  been shown any evidence which could lead us to  believethat  the insolvents' reputation at that time in the way  oftheir	trade	and  business  was   anything	but   sound,notwithstanding	 the ipse dixits of the receiver,  the	lastwitness,  examined  19	years  after  the  proceedings	 hadstarted.   It is very easy to be wise after the event.	 Butthere  were no indications until August 1924, so far as	 themortgagee is concerned, that he was dealing with a party whowas  about to crash.  Whatever may have been the  intentionsor the course of conduct of the insolvents, there is nothingto  attribute  that intention or course of  conduct  to	 themortgagee.  His evidence, as also of his two sons who helpedhim  in entering into this transaction, has impressed us  astruthful and straightforward.Assuming  that the courts below were right in  applying	 thetest  of due care and attention, what is there to show	thatthe  mortgagee	was  wanting  in that  respect	?   Being  acomplete stranger to the family of the borrowers, he deputedhis  young lawyer sons to make such enquiries as they  couldfrom  persons  who  were expected to  know  them  and  theirbusiness  dealings and after satisfying themselves that	 theborrowers  had	a  good	 reputation  and  had	unencumberedproperties of much greater value than the sum proposed to beadvanced,  the mortgage transaction was finalized.  It	mustbe remembered in this connection that even the test  appliedto  a  lender while lending money to the karta	of  a  jointHindu family does not insist upon the creditor seeing to theapplication of the funds advanced.  In the instant case	 theborrowers  represented	to the creditor that  they  requiredfunds  in the way of their business.  Their enquiry  yieldedthe  information that they had borrowings to the  extent  ofRs.  30,000  to Rs. 40,000 and	outstanding  claims  againsttheir debtors to a much larger extent.	That is the state ofaffairs in a normal trading family.  The fact that all theirimmovable properties worth, according to the Receiver,	morethan  a lakh and a half rupees till then  were	unencumberedwas another indication of the281apparent solvency of the family.  But it has been argued  onbehalf	of the respondent that the mortgagee was put on	 hisenquiry	 by  the very fact that the debtors'  account  booksdisclosed  debts against them.	Therefore, it is  said,	 themortgagee  should have pursued his enquiry further.  It	 wassuggested that the business houses in the town of Quilon andthe  Quilon Bank itself should have been contacted in  orderto ascertain the financial position of the debtors.  It	 hasalready been pointed out that they had no business  dealingswith that Bank.	 The mortgagee's sons have deposed that theymade enquiries of respectable persons named, as also of	 twoleading	 hundi houses which may have been expected  to	knowabout  the financial position of the borrowers' family.	  Itwas  further argued that it was not specifically  stated  inthe  mortgage  bond itself that the money was  intended	 forpayment	 to  creditors	specifically  named.   Ordinarily  atrading	 firm  has  no fixed list of its  creditors  or	 itsdebtors.   It is always a floating list.  Hence when it	 wassaid  that money was being borrowed with a view to  carryingon   the   business  of	 the  trading	family,	  that	 wascomprehensive enough to include the necessity of paying	 theoutstanding  debts  of	the firm.   Unless  the	 lender	 hadreasons	 to  suspect  that the money was  not  intended	 forcarrying on the business of the firm but was meant to cornerthe same with a view to defeating or delaying creditors,  itwould  not ordinarily be the look-out of the lender  dealingat  arm's length to try to pry into the business secrets  ofthe  borrower.	 In  our  opinion,  therefore,	it  was	 notnecessary for the lender either to insist upon a list of theborrower's  creditors  to be specifically mentioned  in	 thedeed  or upon paying the money directly to those  creditors.That  would  be	 throwing too great a  burden  on  a  lenderhonestly  dealing  with	 a trading family and  it  would  beequally	 an irksome thing for a trading family to  be  dealtwith on those terms.  It cannot, therefore, be said that thelender had not shown such care and attention as a reasonableperson in those circumstances would do.	 The learned counselfor the respondent further pointed out certain discrepanciesin the statements in the36282mortgage  deed	and  in the oral  evidence  adduced  by	 themortgagee as pointing to the conclusion that the lender	 hadnot  been careful and cautious and was therefore wanting  ingood  faith.   Those are very  speculative  arguments  whichcannot be the foundation for a finding that the Receiver hadsucceeded  in disproving good faith.  In this connection  itwas also pointed out that there was no satisfactory evidenceas  to how the lender raised Rs. 55,000 which he  paid	soonafter  the  registered mortgage bond was delivered  to	him.There  is evidence in the shape of an entry in the  passbookin  the name of the mortgagee issued by a respectable  hundishop in Alleppey, Ex.  LXVI (a), showing that Rs. 40,000 waswithdrawn  by him on August 19, 1924, just the day  previousto the date of payment of Rs. 55,000.  It is the mortgagee'scase  that he paid the sum of Rs. 55,000 to  the  mortgagorswith  the amount of Rs. 40,000 thus withdrawn to  which	 wasadded Rs. 15,000 which he had with him already.	 There is noreason	to  doubt the truth of this version which  has	beenaccepted  by  the High Court.  It must, therefore,  be	heldthat  the evidence adduced by the mortgagee apart  from	 thequestion  of  burden of proof has affirmatively	 proved	 thepassing of consideration for the mortgage and that there areno circumstances which could throw any suspicion on the bonafides of the transaction.It had been argued on behalf of the appellant that his	casehad been seriously prejudiced by the joint trial, so to say,of  the	 issue	relating to his	 transaction  with  the	 onerelating  to the hypothecation bond dated August  30,  1924.It  was also argued that the mortgage bond in  question	 hadbeen executed and registered and given effect to beyond	 twoyears from the date of adjudication and that therefore	thistransaction  could not be brought within the mischief of  s.35 of the Insolvency Regulation.  In view of our findings onthe  other  and more direct and important issues it  is	 notnecessary  to pronounce upon these additional grounds  urgedon behalf of the appellant.In view of our findings on the main issues in the case,	 theappeal must be allowed, the judgments and283orders	of  the	 courts	 below	annulling  the	usufructuarymortgage bond in question set aside and the transaction heldbinding	 on the estate of the insolvents.  It  follows	thatthe  lease back to the mortgagors being a part of  the	sametransaction  is	 equally  binding  on  the  estate  of	 theinsolvents.    The  appellant  is  entitled  to	 his   coststhroughout,  to come out of the estate in the hands  of	 theOfficial Receiver who must pay his own costs.Appeal allowed.