PETITIONER:SARDAR BALDEV SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, DELHI & AJMER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:02/09/1960BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERSUBBARAO, K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  736		  1961 SCR  (1) 482 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC 743	 (12) D	    1961 SC1708	 (14,17) F	    1961 SC1717	 (8) R	    1962 SC 123	 (5,6) R	    1962 SC1323	 (2,6) E	    1963 SC 491	 (2) RF	    1963 SC 835	 (2,4) R	    1964 SC 925	 (24) R	    1965 SC1375	 (11,12,35 ETC.) R	    1965 SC1862	 (10) MV	    1966 SC1089	 (55) R	    1968 SC 150	 (7) E	    1968 SC1286	 (6) RF	    1972 SC 425	 (26) RF	    1986 SC1099	 (9)ACT:Income-tax Assessment-Undistributed dividend deemed to havebeen distributed-Reassessment as income escaping assessment-Venue-Constitutional  validity of enactment Indian  Income-tax  Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), SS. 23A, 34, 22, 64- Governmentof India  Act, 1935, Seventh Sch., List I,Entry 54.HEADNOTE:The appellant, at the time a resident of Lahore, was  asses-sed  to	 income-tax  on	 an income of  Rs.  49,047  for	 theassessment  year 1944-45 by the Income-tax Officer,  Lahore.After the partition in 1947 he shifted to Delhi and  residedthere.	 He was one of the three share-holders of a  companycalled Indra Singh and Sons Ltd. of Calcutta, the shares  ofall  the three shareholders being equal.  The company  at  ameeting held oil April 17, 1943, passed its accounts for theyear  ending  March  31, 1942,	but  declared  no  dividendsalthough the accounts disclosed large profits.	On June	 11,1947,  the  Income-tax Officer, Calcutta,  passed  an  orderunder  s.  23A	of the Income-tax Act that the	sum  of	 Rs.4,74,370,  being the appellant's share of the  undistributedassessable income of the company, be included in his  incomefor  the assessment year 1944-45.  Thereupon the  Income-taxOfficer,  Delhi, on April 10, 1948, issued a notice  to	 theappellant,  who was then working as the Defence Minister  ofIndia and residing in Delhi, under s. 34 of the Act to	filea  revised return, which he did under protest, reopened	 theearlier	 assessment and by a fresh order made on  March	 25,1949,  assessed the appellant on an income of  Rs.  5,23,417for the year in question.  It was contended on behalf of theappellant that the proceeding under S. 34 could be held onlyin  Lahore  and	 not  in India at  all.	  The  question	 fordetermination  was  whether the Income-tax  Officer,  Delhi,could validly reassess the appellant under s. 34 of the Act.Held, that the issue of a notice under S. 34 of the  Income-tax  Act, 1922, under the provision of the  section  itself,attracted  such	 provisions of the Act as might apply  to  anotice	issued under s. 22(2) of the Act and since s. 64  ofthe  Act  was the only provision under which  the  place  ofassessment upon a notice under s. 22(2) could be determined,in  absence  of anything to the contrary in the Act,  s.  64applied	 to  an	 assessment under s. 34	 of  the  Act.	 Theappellant was, therefore, rightly assessed by the Income-taxOfficer, Delhi, under s. 64(2) of the Act.483C.   V.Govindarajulu v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  Madras,I.L.R.	  (1949)  Mad.	624  and  Lakshminarain	 Bhadani  v.Commissioner of	    Income-tax, Bihar and Orissa, (1951)  20I.T.R. 594, held inapplicable.The time specified by the proviso to s. 64(3) could have  noapplication  since  the contention in the present  case	 wasthat the assessment under s. 34 could be made only in Lahoreand not in India at all.Section	 23A of the Act, as it then stood, raised  only	 onefiction, and not two, and that was of an income arising on aspecific date in the past with the purpose that such  incomemight  be  included  in the income  of	a  share-holder	 forassessment.  That income must, therefore, be deemed to	haveexisted	 on the date for the purpose of assessment  and,  ifnot  included in the assessment for the relevant year,	mustbe  taken  to  have actually escaped  assessment  so  as  toattract s. 34 of the Act.Dodworth  v. Dale, 20 T. C. 285, D. & G. R. Rankine v.	Com-missioners   of Inland Revenue, 32 T. C. 520  and  ChatturamHorliram  Ltd.	v.  Commissioner of  Income-tax,  Bihar	 andOrissa, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 290, held inapplicable.There  is no warrant for the proposition that S. 23A of	 theAct  was  meant	 to  apply  only  to  cases  where   pendingassessment for any year, an order is made under that sectioncreating a fictional income that year.	Such an order could,therefore,  be made even after the assessment of the  incomeof the share-holder for the year concerned had already	beencompleted.   But  S.  23A does not itself  provide  for	 anyassessment  being made and that has to be made	under  otherprovisions  of the Act authorising assessment  including  s.34.It  is not correct to say that s. 23A(1), as it then  stood,was beyond the competence of the Legislature and was as suchunconstitutional.   Under Entry 54 of List I of the  SeventhSchedule   to  the  Government	of  India  Act,	 1935,	 theLegislature  could pass not only a law imposing a, tax on  aperson on his own income but also a law preventing him	fromevading	 the tax payable on his income and there can  be  nodoubt that s. 23A, properly construed, was meant to  preventsuch evasion.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 317 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober	 18,  1952, of the  Income-tax	Appellate  Tribunal,Calcutta Bench, in Income-tax Appeal No. 807/1950-51.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri  and S.  C.	 Mazumdar,  for	 theappellant.62484C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   K.	  N.Rajagopal  Sastri,  R. Ganapathy Iyer, R. H. Dhebar  and  D.Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  September 2. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySARKAR	J.-In 1944, the appellant was a resident of  Lahore.On  October 14, 1944, he was assessed to income-tax  by	 theIncome-tax Officer, Lahore, for the assessment year  1944-45on  an income of Rs. 49,047.  As is well-known,	 in  August,1947,  India was partitioned and Lahore came to be  includedin  the newly created Dominion of Pakistan and went  out  ofIndia.	After the partition, the appellant shifted to  Delhiand was residing there at all material times.The  appellant held shares in a company called	Indra  Singhand  Sons Ltd. which had its office at Calcutta.  The  othershares	in that company were held by Indra Singh  and  AjaibSingh.	The holdings of all the shareholders were equal.  Anannual general meeting of this company was held on April 17,1943,  in which the accounts for the year ending  March	 31,1942,  were  placed for consideration.	 The  accounts	werepassed	at the meeting but no dividend. was declared  thoughthe accounts disclosed large profits.On  June 11, 1947, an Income-tax Officer of Calcutta  passedan  order  under  s.  23A of the  Income-tax  Act  that	 Rs.14,23,110 being the undistributed portion of the  assessableincome	of the company for the year ending March  31,  1942,after  the deductions provided in the section, be deemed  tohave   been   distributed  as  dividend	 among	 the   threeshareholders  on the date of the general meeting,  that	 is,April  17,  1943.  As a result of this order a	sum  of	 Rs.4,74,370.  being  his  share of the amount  directed  to  bedistributed,  had under the section, to be included  in	 theincome	of  the appellant for the assessment  year  1944-45.The validity of this order was never challenged.The  Income-tax Officer, Calcutta, informed  the  Income-taxOfficer,  Delhi,  of  the order made by him  under  a.	23A.Thereupon the Income-tax Officer, Delhi, on April 10,  1948,issued a notice under a. 34			    485of  the	 Act  to  the  appellant  then	residing  in  Delhi,requiring  him	to file within thirty-five days,  a  revisedreturn for the year 1944-45 as a part of his income for thatyear  had escaped assessment.  Obviously the notice  was  onthe  basis  that the said sum of Rs.  4,74,370	had  escapedassessment for the year 1944-45.  On February 10, 1949,	 theappellant  submitted  a	 revised return	 under	protest	 andincluded in it the said sum of Rs. 4,74,370.  The Income-taxOfficer, Delhi, then reopened the earlier assessment and  onMarch  25, 1949, made a fresh assessment order	for  1944-45assessing  the appellant on an income of Rs. 5,23,417.	 Theappellant  appealed  against  this order  to  the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner	 but his appeal was  dismissed.	  Hethen  appealed to the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal but	 wasagain  unsuccessful.  He has filed the present	appeal	withspecial	 leave of this Court against the judgment and  orderof the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal.A preliminary point as to the maintainability of this appealwas  taken  by the learned  Solicitor-General  appearing  onbehalf	of the respondent Commissioner of  Income-tax,	thatthe  appellant having been unsuccessful in availing  himselfof  the	 other	remedy provided in the	Act  should  not  beallowed	 the extraordinary remedy of approaching this  Courtwith  special  leave.  Now, under the  Income-tax  Act,	 theappellant  could  apply to the Tribunal to refer to  a	HighCourt  any  question of law that arose out of  the  former'sdecision.   The	 Act itself gave no right of appeal  at	 allfrom  that decision, nor any other remedy against  it.	 Theappellant had applied to the Tribunal for an order referringcertain	 questions arising out of its decision to the'	HighCourt  at Calcutta but was unsuccessful in getting an  orderfor  reasons  to be presently stated.  The Tribunal  was  inCalcutta.  The appellant, who was in Delhi, asked a firm  ofincome-tax  practitioners named S. K. Sawday & Co.  in	Cal-cutta,	to  move  the Tribunal for an  order  of  reference.Sawday & Co. had the necessary petition and papers prepared.They sent these to the appellant at Delhi by post on January5,1953, for his signature and the486papers reached Delhi on January 7, 1953.  The appellant	 whowas  then the Defence Minister of the Government  of  India,was  at	 the  time,  away  from	 Delhi	on  official   tour.Immediately on his return from tour he signed the papers andon  January  21/22, 1953, sent them from Delhi	by  post  toSawday	& Co. in Calcutta.  The papers reached	Calcutta  onJanuary	 24,  1953, but were not delivered to Sawday  &	 Co.before	January 28, 1953, due to a postman's default as	 wasadmitted  by the postal authority concerned.  Sawday  &	 Co.filed the petition in the Tribunal on the same date but thatwas one day too late as it should have been filed on January27, 1953.  The Tribunal thereupon dismissed the	 applicationas  having  been made out of time.  The	 appellant  appealedagainst this dismissal to the High Court at Calcutta but theHigh  Court dismissed the appeal.  In  these  circumstances,the  appellant moved this Court for special leave to  appealand  asked  for condonation of delay in moving	this  Court,placing	 before	 it  all the facts  which  we  have  earliermentioned.   This  Court on a consideration of	these  factscondoned the delay and granted special leave.  There was  noattempt	 by the appellant to overreach or mislead the  Courtand  the Court in its discretion gave the leave.   In  thesecircumstances,	we are unable to agree with  the  contentionthat  the  appellant is not entitled to	 proceed  with	thisappeal, because he could have availed himself of the  remedyprovided by the Act and was by his own conduct, unable to doso.   This  Court had inspite of this thought fit  to  grantleave  to the appellant to appeal from the decision  of	 theTribunal.   Further  the learned counsel for  the  appellantintends to confine himself to questions of law arising	fromthe Judgment of the Tribunal.  We, therefore, see no  reasonwhy the appeal should not be heard.The main question in this appeal is whether the	 proceedingstaken  against	the appellant under s. 34 of  the  Act	werevalid.	 That section has been amended but we are  concernedwith it as it stood on April 10, 1948, when the notice underit was issued.The first point is that the proceedings under s. 34			    487could not be taken by the Income-tax Officer, Delhi.  It  issaid  that  the proceedings under that section	are  only  acontinuation  of  the original assessment  proceedings,	 andtherefore,   it	 is  the  Officer  who	made  the   originalassessment order or his successor in office, who alone couldstart the fresh proceedings.  It is hence contended that  itis the Income-tax Officer, Lahore, who could proceed againstthe appellant under s. 34 and the Income-tax Officer, Delhi,had no jurisdiction to do so.  The contention then comes  tothis that in the circumstances of this case,' no proceedingsunder s. 34 could be taken against the appellant in India atall.The   learned  Solicitor-General  said	that  this  was	  anobjection  as to the place of assessment under s. 64 of	 theAct,  and could not be entertained as it had not been  takenwithin	the time provided under the second proviso  to	sub-sec.  (3) of that section.  If that proviso applied  to	 thepresent case, the appellant had to raise the objection	thatproceedings  under s. 34 could not be taken at Delhi  withinthe  thirty-five  days	Mentioned in the  notice  under	 thesection.  It is said that this had not been done.  It  seemsto  us	however	 that the proviso would	 apply	only  if  anobjection  to a place of assessment had been taken under  s.64  and the objection that the appellant has taken  in	thiscase  is not one under that section.  That  section  applieswhere the assessment can be made in one place or another  inIndia and an objection is taken to one of such places.	Herethe  contention	 is that the assessment under s. 34  can  bemade  only in Lahore and therefore cannot be made. in  Indiaat all.	 To such a contention s. 64 has no application.	 TheSolicitor General's point must therefore fail.We  are	 however of the opinion that the contention  of	 theappellant  is without foundation.  Section 34 provides	thatin the cases mentioned in it, the income may be assessed  orreassessed  and the provisions of the Act shall, so  far  asmay be, apply accordingly as if the notice issued under	 thesection had been issued under s. 22(2) of the Act.  Now	 theplace where an assessment is to be made pursuant to a noticeunder488s.22(2)	 has to be determined under s. 64.  Indeed  that  isthe only provision in the Act for deciding the proper  placefor  any  assessment.  There is nothing which  makes  s.  64inapplicable to an assessment made under s. 34.	  Therefore,it  seems  to us clear, that the place where  an  assessmentunder s. 34 can be made has to be decided under s. 64.	 Nowthe  appellant was not carrying on any business,  professionor vocation.  He was working as the Defence Minister of	 theGovernment  of	India and residing in Delhi.   He  could  beproperly assessed by the Income-tax Officer, Delhi, under s.64(2)  if the assessment was the original assessment.	Thisis  not	 in  dispute.	It follows  that  no  objection	 canlegitimately  be  taken by the appellant to  his  assessmentunder s. 34 by the Income-tax Officer, Delhi.We  find  nothing in the two cases cited by  Mr.Sastri,	 whoappeared  for the appellant, to support the contention	thatin this case the assessment under s. 34 could not have	beenmade in	 India	at all.	 In neither  of	 these	cases  anyquestion  as to the place of assessment tinder s. 34 or	 anyother  section arose.  In the first, C. V. Govindarajulu  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax,, Madras (1), it was  held	thatthe  proceedings  under s. 34 and  the	original  assessmentproceedings were not separate and therefore in the former, apenalty could be levied under s. 28 for failure to submit  areturn pursuant to a general notice under s. 22(1) on  whichthe  latter  were  deemed to have commenced.   It  does	 notfollow that because the two assessments are not separate forcertain purposes, the latter must take place only where	 thefirst  had been made.  In the second, Lakshminarain  BhadaniV.  Commissioner  of Income-tax, Bihar &  Orissa  (2),	thisCourt  held  that  a proceeding under s.  34  may  be  takenagainst	 a  karta of a Hindu undivided family to  reopen  anoriginal  assessment on the family, though in the  meantime,there  had been a disruption of the family and an  order  inrespect	 of it had been passed under s. 25A(1) of  the	Act.It  was	 said  that the position was as	 if  the  Income-taxOfficer was proceeding to assess the(1) I.L.R. (1949) Mad. 624(2) (1951) 20 I.T.R. 594.489income	of  the Hindu undivided family as in  the  year	 (ifassessment.    This  of	 course	 does  not  mean  that	 theassessment  under s. 34 must take place at the	place  wherethe original assessment was made or not at all.Then  it is said that the Income-tax Officer reassessed	 theappellant's income under s. 34 on the basis that part of it,namely,	 the dividend that became liable to be	included  inthe appellant's income under s. 23A, had escaped assessment.It is contended that on a proper reading of s. 34 this wouldnot  be	 a case of income escaping assessment  because	thatsection	 applies to income actually escaping assessment	 andnot to income deemed to have escaped assessment which is allthat  has happened in the present case.	 It is said that  inorder  that income may escape assessment there must in	facthave been an income.  It is also said that in order to applys.  34	to this case two fictions have to  be  resorted	 to,namely,	 (a)  bringing an income into existence	 where	noneexisted and (b) holding that   income has escaped  assessmentwhere  no  income actually did so.  It is  argued  that	 thelanguage  of  s.  34  does not	permit	two  fictions  beingcreated,   and	that  as  the  section	reopens	  a   closedtransaction, it must be strictly construed.Reliance was placed on certain decisions in support of	thiscontention.   First, we were referred to two English  cases,namely,	 Dodworth  v.  Dale (1) and D. & G.  R.	 Rankine  v.Commissioners Inland Revenue (2).  These cases do not assistthe  appellant for they were not concerned with a  statutoryprovision  like s. 23A on which the present case  turns	 andwhich  requires	 that an assessee would be deemed to  havereceived  a certain income on a specified date in  the	pastand  also requires that income to be included in  his  totalincome	for assessment to tax.	The other case to  which  wewere  referred was the decision of this Court  in  ChatturamHorliram  Ltd.	V.  Commissioner of  Income-tax,  Bihar	 andOrissa (3) where it was said that the contention " that	 theescapement from assessment(1) (1936) 20 T.C. 285.	       (2) (1952) 32 T.C. 520.(3) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 290, 300-301.490is  not to be equated to non-assessment simpliciter, is	 notwithout	 force,".   This  Court however	 in  the  very	nextsentence proceeded to state clearly that " it is unnecessaryto  lay	 down  what  exactly  constitutes  `escapement	fromassessment"'.	The actual decision in this case affords  noassistance  to the appellant and has not been relied  on  byhim.   It is clear from what we have read from the  judgmentin  it	that it does not lay down a test to decide  when  anincome may be said to have escaped assessment.On its own merits also we are unable to accept the  argumentof  the	 learned  counsel for the  appellant.	Section	 23Arequires  that	on  an	order  being  made  under  it,	 theundistributed  portion	of  the	 assessable  income  of	 thecompany	 for a year as computed for income-tax purposes	 andafter  the  deductions	provided in the section,  is  to  be',deemed  to have been distributed as dividends amongst	 theshareholders as at the date of the general meeting ",  beingthe  meeting  at which the accounts for the  year  concernedwere passed, and "thereupon, the proportionate share thereofof each shareholder shall be included in the total income ofsuch  shareholder  for the purpose of  assessing  his  totalincome ". The section creates a fictional income arising  ason  a  specified  date in the past and it does	so  for	 thepurpose	 of that income being included in the income of	 theshareholders for assessment of their income-tax.  The incomemust  therefore be 'deemed to have been in existence on	 thedate mentioned for the purpose of assessment to tax.  It  isas  if it actually existed then.  Now if the assessment	 forthe  relevant  year  does not include that  income,  it	 hasescaped	 assessment.   That is what happened in	 this  case.Therefore  the	case  is one to which a.  34  would  clearlyapply.It  is	said that s. 23A was meant to apply  only  to  caseswhere  pending	assessment for any year, an  order  is	madeunder that section creating a fictional income in that Year.We see no reason however so to restrict the operation of thesection:  the words in' it do not warrant such	restriction.There is no limitation of time as to when an order under  B.23A can be made.491Therefore  it can be made at a time when the  assessment  ofthe  income  of the shareholder for the year  concerned	 hasbeen  completed.  There is no reason why that order shouldnot  be given effect to by proceedings duly taken  under  s.34.We  do not also agree that the rejection of the	 appellant'spresent	 argument  will	 compel us to  raise  two  fictions.There  is only one fiction, namely, that raised by  s.	23A.That fiction having been raised, the income that has therebyto be deemed to exist must be held to have actually  escapedassessment.   We are unable to agree that in order to  applys.  34 to an income deemed to exist under s. 23A,  we  wouldhave to read the former section to cover a case where incomehas to be deemed to have escaped assessment.  If the  incomehad  come  into	 existence, and not been  assessed,  it	 hasescaped assessment; it is not a case where the income has tobe  deemed  to	have  escaped  assessment.   In	 our   view,therefore, the present contention of the appellant must failand the income deemed to have been received by him by virtueof  the order made tinder s. 23A on June 11, 1947,  must  beheld to have escaped assessment for the year 1944-45 and hisincome must therefore be liable to reassessment under s. 34.It is now necessary to refer to one of the reasons on  whichthe  judgment of the Tribunal is based.	 It was	 there	saidthat " It was incumbent on the Income-tax Officer, Calcutta'passing	 the order under s. 23A to have included the sum  ofRs. 4,74,370/- in the other assessed income of the assesseeand  to	 have recomputed the assessable income and  the	 taxthereon".  It was held that " the Income-tax Officer, Delhi,went wrong in having recourse to the provisions of s. 34 andmaking an assessment thereunder " but that this a mounted toa mere irregularity not vitiating the assessment made  underthat section.  In the end the Tribunal observed,, "  Anyhow,the  Tribunal is empowered to substitute its own  order	 forthat  of the Income Tax Officer and acting under that  powerwe  assess the assessee under the provisions of See.  23A(1)of the Indian Income-tax Act63492It seems to us that the Tribunal was wrong in the view	thatit  took.  The learned Solicitor-General conceded that	thisis  so.	 We are unable to agree that an assessment could  bemade  under s. 23A.  That section does not provide  for	 anyassessment  being  made.   It only talks  of  the  fictionalincome	 being	 included  in  the  total  income   of	 theshareholders  "	 for  the purpose  of  assessing  his  totalincome".  The assessment therefore has to be made under	 theother  provisions  of the Act including s.  34,	 authorisingassessments.   In our view, the assessment in this case	 hadbeen  properly made by the Income-tax Officer, Delhi,  underthe pro. visions of s. 34.Lastly, it is said that a. 23A is unconstitutional  inasmuchas  it	was beyond the competence of  the  legislature	thatenacted	 it.   This section has been redrafted	and  amendedseveral	 times since it was first enacted in 1930.   We	 areconcerned  with	 the section as it stood on June  11,  1947,when the order under it was made in this case.	 Sub-section(1)  of the section in the form that it stood then-and	thatis the material portion of the section for our	purposes-wasenacted	 by Act VII of 1939.  It is that  sub-section  whichgave  the  power  to make an order  that  the  undistributedportion	 of  the assessable income of the company  shall  bedeemed	to have been distributed as dividends  and  providedthat  thereupon	 the  proportionate share  thereof  of	eachshareholder shall be' included in his income for assessment.The  enactment	was by the Central  legislature	 which	thenderived	 its competence to legislate from the Government  ofIndia  Act,  1935.   There is no doubt, and  neither  is  itdisputed, that	sub-section had been enacted under the powercontained  in entry 54 of List I in the Seventh Schedule  tothe Government of India Act, 1935.  The entry read, "  Taxeson income other than agricultural income".  The argument  ofMr.  Sastri is that this entry only  authorises	 legislationfor taxing a person on his income; under it a law cannot  bemade taxing one person on the income of another.Mr.  Sastri says that in law a company and its	shareholdersare different persons--a proposition493which is indisputable-and therefore s. 23A is incompetent asit  purports  to tax the shareholders on the income  of	 thecompany	 in which they hold shares, He points out, and	thisagain  is not in dispute, that the section does not  give  aright  to a shareholder on an order being made under it,  torealise from the company the dividend, which by the order isto  be deemed to have been paid to him.	 He says,  and	thisalso seems right, that the income remains the income of	 thecompany	 and  a	 shareholder is taxed on  a  portion  of  itrepresenting the dividend deemed to have been paid to him.In spite of all this it seems to us that the legislation wasnot  incompetent.  Under entry 54 a law could of  course  bepassed imposing a tax on a person on his own income.  It  isnot  disputed  that  under that entry a law  could  also  bepassed	to prevent a person from evading the tax payable  onhis  own income.  As is well-known the	legislative  entrieshave  to be read in a very wide manner and so as to  includeall subsidiary and ancillary matters.  So Entry 54 should beread  not  only as authorising the imposition of a  tax	 butalso  as  authorizing an enactment which  prevents  the	 taximposed	 being evaded.	If it were not to be so	 read,	thenthe  admitted power to tax a person on his own income  mightoften	be  made  infructuous  by  ingenious   contrivances.Experience  has	 shown that attempts to evade  the  tax	 areoften made.Now  it seems to us that s. 23A was enacted  for  preventingsuch  evasion of tax.  The conditions of  its  applicabilityclearly	 lead  to that conclusion.  The first  condition  isthat the company must have distributed as dividend less thansixty  per cent of its assessable income after deduction  ofincome-tax and supertax payable by it.	The taxing authoritymust then be satisfied Chat the payment of a dividend or  ofa  larger  dividend than that declared, would,	in  view  oflosses	incurred  in earlier years or the smallness  of	 theprofit made, be unreasonable.  Lastly, the section does	 notapply  to  a company in which the public  are  substantiallyinterested or a subsidiary company of a public company whoseshares are held by the parent494company	 or by the nominees thereof The section provides  byan explanation as follows:For  the  purpose of this sub-section, a  company  shall  bedeemed to be a company in which the public are substantiallyinterested  if	shares	of the	company	 (not  being  sharesentitled  to  a	 fixed rate of	dividend,  whether  with  orwithout a further right to participate in profits)  carryingnot less than twenty-five per cent of the voting power	havebeen	allotted    unconditionally    to,    or    acquiredunconditionally by, and are at the end of the previous	yearbeneficially held by the public (not including a company  towhich the provisions of this sub-section apply), and if	 anysuch  shares have in the course of such previous  year	beenthe subject of dealings in any stock exchange in the taxableterritories or in fact freely transferable by the holders toother members of the public.The  section thus applies to a company in which at least  75per  cent of the voting power lies in the hands	 of  personsother  than  the  public, which can only mean,	a  group  ofpersons	 allied together in the same interest.	The  companywould  thus have to be one which is controlled by  a  group.The  group  can	 do what it likes with the  affairs  of	 thecompany, of course, within the bounds of the Companies	Act.It  lies  solely in its hands to decide whether	 a  dividendshall be declared or not.  When therefore in spite of  therebeing money reasonably available for the purpose, it decidesnot  to	 declare  a dividend it is clear  that	it  does  sobecause	 it does not want to take the dividend.	 Now it	 maynot  want to take the dividend if it wants to evade  paymentof  tax	 thereon.  Thus by not declaring  the  dividend	 thepersons	 constituting  the  group in  control,	could  evadepayment of super-tax, which, of course, is a form of income-tax.   They  would be able to evade  the  super-tax  becausesuper-tax  is  payable on the dividend in the hands  of	 theshareholders  even  though  it may have	 been  paid  by	 thecompany	 on the profits out of which the dividend  is  paid,and  because  the rate at which super-tax is  payable  by  acompany	 may  be lower than the rate at which  that  tax  ispayable by other495assessees.  By providing that in the circumstances mentionedin it, the available assessable income of a company would bedeemed	to have been distributed as dividend and be  taxablein the hands of the shareholders as income received by them,the  section would prevent the members of such a group	fromevading by the exercise of their controlling power over	 thecompany,  payment of tax on income that would have  come  tothem.  That being so, the section would be within entry 54.In  conceivable circumstances the section may work  hardshipon  members of the public who hold shares in such a  companybut  that would not take the section outside the  competenceof  the	 legislature.	It  would  still  be  an   enactmentpreventing  evasion of tax.  Considerations of hardship	 areirrelevant for deciding questions of legislative competence.It is further quite clear that in the absence of a provisionlike s. 23A it is possible so to manipulate the affairs of acompany of this kind as to prevent the undistributed profitsfrom  ever  being taxed and experience seems to	 have  shownthat  this has often happened.	The following  passage	fromSimon's	 Income	 Tax,  2nd  Edn.,  Vol.	 3,  p.	 341,  fullyillustrates the situation :	      "	 Generally speaking, surtax is charged	only	      on  individuals,	not on	companies  or  other	      bodies  corporate.  Various devices have	been	      adopted  from  time  to  time  to	 enable	 the	      individual  to avoid surtax on his real  total	      income  or on a portion of it, and one  method	      involved	the formation of what  is  popularly	      called  a	 'one-man company'.  The  individual	      transferred   his	 assets,  in  exchange	 for	      shares,	to  a  limited	company,   specially	      registered  for the purpose, which  thereafter	      received the income from the assets concerned.	      The individual's total income for tax purposes	      was   then  limited  to  the  amount  of	 the	      dividends	 distributed to him  as	 practically	      the  only shareholder, which distribution	 was	      in  his  own  control.   The  balance  of	 the	      income, which was not so distributed, remained	      with the company to form, in effect, a fund of	      savings accumulated from income which had	 not	      immediately	      64	      496	      attracted surtax.	 Should the individual	wish	      to  avail	 himself of the use of any  part  of	      these   savings  he  could  effect   this	  by	      borrowing	 from  the  company,  any   interest	      payable  by  him going to	 swell	the  savings	      fund;  and  at any time the  individual  could	      acquire  the whole balance of the fund in	 the	      character	 of capital by putting	the  company	      into liquidation."The  section prevents the evasion of tax by,  among  others,the means mentioned by Simon.The   learned  Solicitor-General  sought  to   support	 thecompetence  of the legislature to enact the section also  onanother	 ground.   He said that entry 54  permitted  tax  onincome and contended that it. authorised taxing of A on	 theincome of B. He said that, where a shareholder was taxed  onthe income of the company, the two being considered separatelegal  entities, the tax was none the less on income  thoughthe burden of the tax was put on one to whom the income	 hadnot  accrued or by whom it had not been received and so	 waswithin the scope of entry 54.  In support of this contentionhe  referred  to  B. M. Amina Umma v.  Income  Tax  Officer.Kozhikode  (1), Janab Jameelamma v. The	 Income-tax'Officer,Nagapattnam (2) and C.	W. Spencer v. Income Tax Officer(3).As  earlier stated, Mr. Sastri disputes the  correctness  ofthis  contention.   We	do  not	 consider  it  necessary  topronounce  on this question or as to the correctness of	 thedecisions cited so far as they support it.  In our view, thelegislative  competence to enact the section can be  clearlyupheld on the ground that it was to- prevent evasion of	 in-come-tax and that would be enough to dispose of the argumentadvanced  by Mr. Sastri that the section was an	 incompetentpiece of legislation.This appeal therefore fails and it is dismissed with Costs.Appeal dismissed.(1) (1954) 26 I.T.R. 137.(2) (1955) 29 I.T.R. 246.(3) (1956) 31 I.T.R. 107.497