PETITIONER:BIPIN CHANDER JAISINGHBHAI SHAH	Vs.RESPONDENT:PRABHAWATI.DATE OF JUDGMENT:19/10/1956BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.JAGANNADHADAS, B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMACITATION: 1957 AIR  176		  1956 SCR  838ACT:Husband and Wife-Divorce-Desertion-Ingredients of Desertion-Intention-Animus  Deserendi-Statutory period  of  separation-Burden of proof-Bombay Hindu Divorce Act, 1947 (Bom.	XXIIof 1947), s. 3(1)(d).HEADNOTE:The  parties were married in 1942 and there was a  child  ofthe  marriage.	 In 1947 the appellant left for	 England  onbusiness  and  on his return to India discovered  that	thiswife  (respondent)  bad been having  amorous  correspondencewith  one  M, and taxed her with having	 developed  intimacywith  him.  She was unable to  give any answer and  went  toher  father's place on May 24, 1947, on the pretext  of	 themarriage of her cousin which was to take place in June.	  OnJuly 15, 1947, the appellant sent a notice to the respondentthrough	 his  solicitor in which after mentioning  the	factthat she had, left against his wishes stated that he did notdesire	 to  keep  her	any'  longer  under  his  care	 andprotection,  and desired her to send the minor son  to	him.On  July  4,  1951, the appellant instituted  the  suit	 fordivorce	 under s. 3(1)(d) of the Bombay Hindu  Divorce	Act,1947,  on  the	ground	that  the  respondent  had  been  indesertion ever since May 24, 1947, without reasonable  causeand without his consent and against his will for a period ofover  four  years.  The respondent's case that	it  was	 theappellant who by his treatment of her after his return	fromEngland	 had made her life unbearable and compelled  her  toleave  her marital home against her wishes, 'was not  provedbut  there  was evidence that after the	 solicitor's  noticedated  July  15,  1947,	 was  received	by  the	 respondent,attempts were made by her father and his relations to  bringabout  reconciliation  between the parties but	they  failedowing  to the attitude of the appellant.  The  question	 waswhether the respondent had been in desertion, entitling	 theappellant to have a decree for divorce.Held  that, on the facts, though the initial fault lay	withthe  respondent,  her  leaving	her  marital  home  was	 notactuated  by  any animus to desert her husband	but  as	 theresult	of her sense of guilt, and as subsequently  she	 waswilling	 to  come  back but could not do, so  owing  to	 theattitude  of  the  appellant, there was no  proof  that	 shedeserted  him, much less that she bad harbored	that  animusfor  the  statutory period, and the  appellant's  case	mustfail.The  essential conditions for the offence of  desertion,  sofar as the deserting spouse is concerned, are (i) the factumof  separation and (ii) the intention to bring	cohabitationpermanently to an end839(animus	 deserendi); and as regards the deserted spouse	 theelements are (i) the absence of consent and (ii) absence  ofconduct	 giving reasonable cause to the spouse	leaving	 thematrimonial home to form the necessary intention aforesaid.Desertion  is  a matter of inference to be  drawn  from	 thefacts and circumstances of each case and those facts have tobe viewed as to the purpose which is revealed by those factsor by conduct and expression of intention, both anterior andsubsequent to the actual act of separation.In a suit for divorce on the ground of desertion the  burdenis  on the plaintiff to prove that the deserting spouse	 hasbeen  in desertion throughout the statutory period  of	fouryears.Thomas	v. Thomas ([1924] P. 194), Bowron v. Bowron  ([1925]P.  187), Pratt v. Pratt ([1939] A.C. 417) and Lang v.	Lang([1965] A.C. 402), referred to.Quaere, whether the statutory period of four years specifiedin s. 3(1)(d) should immediately precede the institution  ofthe suit for divorce.JUDGMENT: CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 247 of 1953.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedAugust 22, 1952 of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 66 of1952 arising out of the decree dated March 7, 1952 of BombayHigh  Court in its Ordinary Original Civil  Jurisdiction  inSuit No. 1177 of 1951.M.   C.	 Setalvad,  Attorney-General for  India,  PurshottamTricumdas, T. Godiwala, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath andS. N. Andley, for the appellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of  India	 and  SardarBahadur, for the respondent.1956.  October 19.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySINHA  J.-This	is an appeal by special	 leave	against	 thejudgment  and  decree  of the High Court  of  Judicature  atBombay	dated  August 22,1952, reversing those of  a  singleJudge  of  that	 Court on the  Original	 Side,	dated  March7,1952, by which he had granted a decree for dissolution  ofmarriage between the appellant and the respondent.840The  facts and circumstances of this case may be  stated  asfollows:  The  appellant,  who was the	plaintiff,  and	 therespondent  were  married  at  Patan  on  April	 20,   1942,according  to  Hindu  rites  of	 the  Jain  Community.	 Thefamilies  of  both the parties belong to Patan, which  is  atown  in Gujarat, about a night's rail journey from  Bombay.They  lived  in	 Bombay	 in a two-room	flat  which  was  inoccupation  of	the  appellant's family	 consisting  of	 hisparents	 and his two sisters, who occupied the	larger	roomcalled	the  hall, and the plaintiff and the  defendant	 whooccupied   the	smaller	 room  called  the   kitchen.	 Theappellant's  mother who is a patient of asthma lived  mostlyat  Patan.  There is an issue of the marriage, a  son  namedKirit, born on September 10, 1945.  The defendant's  parentslived  mostly  at Jaigaon in the East Khandesh	district  inBombay.	 The parties appear to have lived happily in  Bombayuntil  a third party named Mahendra, a friend of the  familycame  upon  the scene and began to live with the  family  intheir  Bombay  flat some time in 1946, after  his  dischargefrom  the army.	 On January 8, 1947, the appellant left	 forEngland	 on  business.	 It was the  plaintiff's  case	thatduring his absence from Bombay the defendant became intimatewith the said Mahendra and when she went to Patan after	 theplaintiff's  departure for England she carried	on  "amorouscorrespondence" with Mahendra who continued to stay with theplaintiff's family in Bombay.  One of the letters written bythe  defendant to Mahendra while staying at the	 plaintiff'sflat  in  Bombay,  is Ex.  E  as  officially  translated  inEnglish,  the original being in Gujerati except a few  wordswritten	  in   faulty  English.	  This	 letter	  is   datedApril,1947,  written  from the plaintiff's house  at  Patan,where the defendant bad been staying with her mother-in-law.This letter had been annexed to the plaint with the officialtranslation.  It was denied by the defendant in her  writtenstatement.  But at the trial her counsel admitted it to havebeen written by her to Mahendra.  As this letter started allthe trouble between the parties to this litigation, it	willhave to be set out in extenso hereinafter.  Continuing841the  plaintiff's narrative of the events as alleged  in	 theplaint and in his evidence, the plaintiff returned to Bombayfrom  abroadon May 2O, 1947.  To receive him back  from	 hisforeign	 journey the whole family' including  the  defendantwas  there in Bombay.  According to the plaintiff, he  foundthat  on the first night after his return his bed  had	beenmade  in the hall occupied by his father and that  night  heslept away from his wife.  As this incident is said to	havesome  significance in the narrative of events leading up  tothe  separation between the husband and the wife  and  aboutthe reason for which the parties differ, it will have to  beexamined in detail later.  Next morning, that is to say,  onMay 21, 1947, the plaintiff's father handed over the  letteraforesaid  to the plaintiff, who recognised it as  being  inthe familiar handwriting of his wife.  He decided to  tacklehis  wife with reference to the letter.	 He handed it  to  aphotographer  to have photo copies made of the	same.	Thatvery day in the evening he asked his wife as to why she	 hadaddressed  the	letter	to Mahendra.  She  at  first  deniedhaving	written any letter and asked to see the letter	uponwhich  the  plaintiff  informed her that  it  was  with	 thephotographer with a view to photo copies being made.   Afterreceiving   the	 letter	 and  the  photo  copies  from	 thephotographer  on May 23, the plaintiff showed the  defendantthe photo copy of the letter in controversy between them  atthat  stage  and  then	the defendant  is  alleged  to	haveadmitted  having written the letter to Mahendra and to	havefurther	 told the plaintiff that Mahendra was a	 better	 manthan him and that Mahendra loved her and she loved him.	 Thenext  important event in the narrative is what	happened  onMay 24, 1947.  On the morning of that	day,	while	 theplaintiff was getting ready to go to his business office hiswife  is  alleged to have told him that she had	 packed	 herluggage	 and  was ready to go to Jalgaon on  the  ostensibleground	that  there was a marriage in her  father's  family.The  plaintiff told her that if she had made up her mind  togo,  he	 would send the car to take her to the	station	 andoffered to pay her Rs. 100 for her expenses.  But she884refused	 the  offer.   She left	 Bombay	 apparently  in	 theplaintiff's absence for Jalgaon by the afternoon train. whenthe plaintiff came back home from his office, he "discoveredthat  she  had taken away everything with her and  had	leftnothing behind".  It may be added here that the	 plaintiff'smother had left for Patan with his son some days previously.Plaintiff  's case further is that the defendant never	cameback  to  Bombay  to live with him, nor did  she  write	 anyletters from Jalgaon, where she stayed most of the time.  Itappears	 further that the plaintiff took a very	 hasty,	 'ifnot also a foolish, step of having a letter addressed to thedefendant  by his solicitor on July 15, 1947,  charging	 herwith intimacy between herself and Mahendra and asking her tosend  back the little boy. ,The parties violently differ  onthe  intent and effect of this letter which will have to  beset  out in extenso at the appropriate place.  No answer  tothis  letter  was received by the  plaintiff.  In  November,1947,  the plaintiff's mother came from Patan to Bombay	 andinformed the plaintiff that the defendant might be  expectedin Bombay a few days later.  Thereupon the plaintiff sent  atelegram  to  his father-in-law at Patan.  The	telegram  isworded as follows:-"Must not send Prabha.	Letter posted.		     Wishing happy new year".The  telegram  stated that a letter bad	 been  posted.	 Thedefendant  denied that any such letter bad been received  byher or by her father.  Hence the original, if any, is not onthe  record.  But the plaintiff produced what he alleged  tobe a carbon copy of that letter which purports to have	beenwritten on November 13, 1947, the date on which the telegramwas  despatched.  An English translation of that  letter  isEx. C and is to the following effect:-Bombay 13-11-47ToRajmanya Rajeshri Seth Popatlal & others.There  is  no  letter  from you	 recently.   You  must	havereceived the telegram sent by me today.Further,  this	is  to	inform	you  that  I  have  receivedinformation from my Mami (mother) that843Prabha	is  going to come to Bombay in 3 or 4  days.   I  amsurprised  to  hear this news; Ever since she  has  gone  toJalgaon, there has been not a single letter from her to thisday.   Not  only that, but, although  you  know	 everything,neither you nor any one on your behalf has come to see me inthis connection.  What has made Prabha thus inclined to comeall of a sudden!After  her  behaviour  while  going  to	 Jalgaon  for:	 themarriage, (and after), her letter to Mahendra and her words.'He  is better than you-Has feeling for' me and I love	him'and all this, I was afraid that she would not set up a housewith  me.   Hence  when my mother gave me the  news  of	 herreturn, I was surprised.I have not the slightest objection to the return of  Prabha,but if she gives such shameless replies to me and shows suchimproper  behaviour,  I shall not be able  to  tolerate	 thesame.  If she now really realises her mistake and if she  isreally	repenting and wants sincerely to come,	please	makeher write a reply to this letter.  On getting a letter	fromher,  I shall personally come to Patan to fetch her.   Kiritis  young.  For his sake also, it is necessary	to  persuadePrabha.Further,  I have to state that I have so far kept peace.   Ihave  made efforts to call back Prabha.	  Please  understandthis  to her my final effort.  If even now Prabha  does	 notgive  up her obstinacy, I am not responsible and  (then)  donot blame me.Well,  that is all for the present.  Kirit must be bale	 andhearty.	  My  new year's greetings to you  all.	  Please  doassign to me such work-as I can manage.			  Written by Bipinchandra"The  plaintiff stated that be received no answer  either  tothe telegram or to the letter.	Two days later, on, November15,  the  plaintiff's  father  addressed  a  letter  to	 thedefendant's  father,  which  is Ex.  D.	 This  letter  makesreference.  to the defendant's mother having, talked to	 theplaintiffs  mother about sending the defendant I  to  Bombayand  to the fact that the plaintiff bad sent a	telegram  onNovember 13, and ends with the expression of opinion by	 theplaintiff's father844that  it  was "absolutely necessary"  that  the	 plaintiff'sconsent	 should be obtained before sending the defendant  toBombay.	 This letter also remained unanswered.	According tothe  plaintiff,	 nothing happened until May, 1948,  when  hewent to Patan and there met the defendant and told her "thatif  she	 repented  for her relations with  Mahendra  in	 theinterests  of  the child as well as our	 own  interests	 shecould come back and live with me".  To that the defendant issaid to have replied that in November, 1947, as a result  ofpressure  from	her father and the community,  she  had-beenthinking of coming to live with the plaintiff) but that	 shehad  then  decided not to do so.  The  defendant  has  givenquite  a  different version of this interview.	 The  secondinterview between the plaintiff and the defendant again tookplace  at Patan some time later in 1948 when  the  plaintiffwent  there to see her on coming to know that she  had	beensuffering  from typhoid,. At that time also she	 evinced  nodesire	to  come back to the plaintiff.	 The third  and	 thelastinterview between the plaintiff and the defendant took placeat  Jalgaon in April-May, 1949.	 At that interview also	 thedefendant turned down the plaintiff's request that at  leastin  the interests of the child she should come back to	him.According  to  the plaintiff, since May 24, 1947,  when	 thedefendant left his home in Bombay of her own accord, she badnot  come back to her marital home.  The suit was  commencedby  the plaintiff by filing the plaint dated July  4,  1951,substantially  on the ground that the defendant bad been  indesertion ever since May 24, 1947, without reasonable  causeand without his consent and against his will for a period ofover  four  years.  He therefore prayed for a decree  for  adissolution  of his marriage with the defendant and for	 thecustody of the minor child.The  suit  was	contested  by the  defendant  by  a  writtenstatement  filed on February 4, 1952, substantially  on	 theground that it was the plaintiff who by his treatment of herafter  his return from England had made her life  unbearableand  compelled	her to leave her marital  home	against	 herwishes on or about May84524,  1.947.  She  denied any intimacy  between	herself	 andMahendra or that she was confronted by the plaintiff with  aphotostat  copy	 of  the letter., Ex.  E, or  that  she	 hadconfessed any such intimacy to the plaintiff.  She  admittedhaving received the Attorney's letter, Ex.  A, and also thatshe  did  not  reply  to  that	letter.	  She  adduced	 herfather's advice as the	 reason	 for not sending any  answerto  that letter. She added that her paternal uncle  Bhogilal(since	  deceased)  and his son Babubhai saw the  plaintiffin  Bombay at the instance of the defendant and	 her  fatherand that the plaintiff turned down their request for  takingher  back.   She  also made reference  to  the	negotiationsbetween the defendant's mother and the plaintiff's mother totake  the  defendant back to Bombay and that  the  defendantcould  not  go	to Bombay as a result  of  the	telegram  ofNovember  13, 1947, and the plaintiff's father's  letter  ofNovember  15,  1947, aforesaid.	 She also  stated  that	 thedefendant   and	  her  son,  Kirit,  both   lived   with,theplaintiff's family at Patan for over four months and off andon  on several occasions.  The defendant's definite case  isthat she had always been ready and willing to go back to theplaintiff  and that it was the plaintiff who all  along	 hadbeen wailfully refusing to keep her and to cohabit with her.On those allegations she resisted the plaintiff's claim	 fora decree for a dissolution of the marriage.On  those  pleadings a single issue was joined	between	 theparties, namely,-"Whether   the	defendant  deserted  the  plaintiff  for   acontinuous period of over four years prior to the filing  ofthe suit".At the trial held by Tendolkar, J. of the Bombay High  Courton the Original Side, the plaintiff examined only himself insupport	 of his case.  The defendant examined  herself,	 herfather,	 Popatlal, and her cousin, Bhogilal, in	 support  ofher case that she had been all along ready and willing to goback  to  her  marital home and that in	 spite	of  repeatedefforts on her part through her relations the plaintiff	 hadbeen persistently refusing to take her back.110846The learned trial Judge answered the only issue in the	casein  the	 affirmative  and granted a decree  for	 divorce  infavour	of the plaintiff, but made DO order as to the  costsof  the suit.  He held that the letter, Ex. E "reads like  alove  letter  written  by  a  girl  to	her  paramour.	 Thereference  to  both  of	 them  having  been  anxious   aboutsomething and there being now no need to be anxious any morecan  only  be  to a possible fear that she  might  miss	 hermonthly	 periods  and  her having  got	her  monthly  periodthereafter, because, if it were not so and the reference wasto anything innocent, there was nothing that she should haverepented  later	 on  in her mind as she says  she  did,	 norshould	there have been occasion for saying 'after all	loveis  such  an  affair'." With reference	to  that  letter  hefurther held that it was capable of the interpretation	thatshe had misbehaved with Mahendra and that she was  consciousof her guilt.  With reference to the incident of May 24, thelearned	 Judge observed that having regard to the  demeanourof the plaintiff and of the defendant in the witness box, hewas  inclined to prefer the husband's testimony to  that  ofthe  wife in all matters in which there was a  conflict.  Heheld  therefore that there was desertion with the  necessaryanimus deserendi and that the defendant had failed to  provethat  she entertained a bonafide intention to come  back  tothe  marital  home,  that is to say,  there  was  no  animusrevertendi.   With  reference  to the  contention  that	 thesolicitor's  letter  of	 July 15,1947,	had  terminated	 thedesertion,  if	any, he held that it was  not  well  foundedinasmuch as the defendant had at no time a genuine desire toreturn	to her husband.	 He made no reference to the  prayerin the plaint that the custody of the child should be  givento the father, perhaps because that prayer was not pressed.The  defendant preferred an appeal under the Letters  Patentwhich  was heard by a. Division Bench consisting  of  ChaglaC.J.  and  Bhagwati  J. The  Appellate	Bench,	allowed	 theappeal,	 set  aside  the decision of  the  trial  Judge	 anddismissed  the suit with costs.	 It held that the  defendantwas not guilty of847desertion,  that  the  letter  of  July	 15,  1947,  clearlyestablished that it was the 'plaintiff who had deserted	 thedefendant.   Alternatively,  the Appellate Court  held	thateven  assuming	that  the defendant was in  desertion  as  aresult of what had happened on May 24, and subsequently, theletter	aforesaid bad the effect of putting an end  to	thatdesertion.   In	 its judgment the letter, Ex.	E,  did	 notjustify the plaintiff having any reasonable suspicions abouthis wife's guilt and that the oral evidence of the defendantand  her relations proved the wife's anxiety to return	backto  her	 husband  and  of the obduracy	of  the	 husband  inrefusing  to  take  the wife back.  The	 plaintiff  made  anapplication  to the High Court for leave to appeal  to	thisCourt.	The leave asked for was refused by another  DivisionBench	consisting  of	the  Chief  Justice  and  Dixit	  J.Thereafter  the	 plaintiff  moved this	Court  and  obtainedspecial	 leave to appeal from the judgment of the  AppellateBench of the High Court.In  this  appeal the learned Attorney-General  appearing  onbehalf	of the appellant and the  learned  Solicitor-Generalappearing  on  behalf  of the  respondent  have	 placed	 allrelevant  considerations of fact and law before us,  and  weare beholden to them for the great assistance they  renderedto  us in deciding this difficult case.	 The  difficulty  isenhanced  by the fact that the two courts below	 have  takendiametrically opposite views of the facts of the case  whichdepend	mostly upon oral testimony of the  plaintiff-husbandand the defendant-wife and not corroborated in many respectson  either  side.  It is a case of the	husband's  testimonyalone on his side and the wife's testimony aided by that  ofher  father  and  her cousin.	As  already  indicated,	 thelearned trial Judge was strongly in favour of preferring thehusband's  testimony to that of the wife whenever there	 wasany conflict.  But he made no reference to the testimony  ofthe defendant's father and cousin which, if believed,  wouldgive an entirely different colour to the case.Before	we  deal  with	the points  in	controversy,  it  isconvenient here to make certain general of observations848on  the	 history  of the law on the  subject  and  the	wellestablished  general  principles  on which  such  cases	 aredetermined.  The suit giving rise to this appeal is based onsection	 3(1) (d) of the Bombay Hindu Divorce Act', XXII  of1947,  (which hereinafter will be referred to as "The  Act")which  came  into  force  on May  12,  1947,  the  date	 theGovernor's  assent  was published in the  Bombay  GovernmentGazette.   This	 Act, so far as the Bombay Province,  as  itthen   was,   was   concerned,	was  the   first   step	  inrevolutionizing the law of matrimonial relationship, and, asthe  Preamble  shows, was meant "to provide for a  right  ofdivorce	  among	 all  communities  of  Hindus	in   certaincircumstances".	  Before  the enactment,  dissolution  of  aHindu  marriage	 particularly amongst what were	 called	 theregenerate classes was unknown to general Hindu law and	 waswholly	inconsistent  with the basic conception of  a  Hindumarriage as a sacrament, that is to say, a holy alliance forthe  performance  of  religious duties.	  According  to	 theShastras,  marriage amongst the Hindus was the last  of	 theten   sacraments   enjoined  by	 the  Hindu   religion	 forpurification.  Hence according to strict Hindu law as  givenby  the	 Samhitas and as developed by  the  commentators,  aHindu	marriage  could	 not  be  dissolved  on	  any-groundwhatsoever, even on account of degradation in the  hierarchyof  castes or apostacy.	 But custom',  particularly  amongstthe  tribal  and  what used to be called  the  lower  castesrecognised  divorce on rather easy terms.  Such	 customs  ofdivorce	 on easy terms have been in some instances  held  bythe courts to be against public policy.	 The Act in  section3  sets out the grounds of divorce.  It is  noticeable	thatthe  Act does not recognise adultery simpliciter as  one  ofthe grounds of divorce, though cl. (f) renders the fact thata  husband "has any other woman as a concubine" and  that  awife "is a concubine of any other man or leads the life of aprostitute" a ground of divorce.  In the present case we areimmediately  concerned	with the provisions of	s.  3(1)(d),which are in these terms:- 3. (1) A husband or wife may sue for divorce on849any of the following grounds, namely:- ............................................(d)  that  the	defendant has deserted the plaintiff  for  acontinuous period of four years"."Desertion"  has  been	defined in  section  2(b)  in  theseterms:-'Desert'  means	 to  desert  without  reasonable  cause	 andwithout the consent or against the will of the spouse".It will be seen that the definition is tautological and	 notvery helpful and leads us to the Common Law of England wherein   spite  of	repeated  legislation  on  the	subject	  ofmatrimonial  law,  no  attempt	has  been  made	 to   define"desertion".   Hence a large body of case law has  developedround  the  legal significance of  "desertion".	  "Marriage"under  the  Act	 means "a marriage  between  Hindus  whethercontracted before or after the coming into operation of thisAct".	"Husband" means a Hindu husband and "wife"  means  aHindu wife.In  England until 1858 the only remedy for desertion  was  asuit  for  restitution	of  conjugal  rights.	But  by	 theMatrimonial Causes Act of 1857, desertion without cause	 fortwo  years  and	 upwards was made a ground for	a  suit	 forjudicial  separation.	It  was not till 1937  that  by	 theMatrimonial Causes Act, 1937, desertion without cause for  aperiod of three years immediately preceding the	 institutionof  proceedings was made a ground for divorce.	The law	 hasnow  been consolidated in the Matrimonial Causes  Act,	1950(14  Geo.  VI, c. 25 ). It would thus appear that  desertionas affording a cause of action for a suit for dissolution ofmarriage is a recent growth even in England.What is desertion?  "Rayden on Divorce" which is a  standardWork on the subject at p. 128 (6th Edn.) has summarised	 thecase-law on the subject in these terms:-"Desertion  is the separation of one spouse from the  other,with  an  intention on the part of the deserting  spouse  ofbringing   cohabitation	 permanently  to  on   end   withoutreasonable cause and without the850consent	 of  the  other	 spouse; but  the  physical  act  ofdeparture  by  one  spouse does not  necessarily  make	thatspouse the deserting party".The  legal position has been admirably summarised in  paras.453 and 454 at pp. 241 to 243 of Halsbury's Laws of  England(3rd Edn.) Vol. 12, in the following words:-"In  its essence desertion means the  intentional  permanentforsaking and abandonment of one spouse by the other withoutthat other's consent, and without reasonable cause.  It is atotal  repudiation of the obligations of marriage.  In	viewof  the large variety of circumstances and of modes of	lifeinvolved,  the	Court has discouraged attempts	at  definingdesertion,  there being no general principle  applicable  toall cases.Desertion  is  not the withdrawal from a place	but  from  astate  of things, for what the law seeks to enforce  is	 therecognition  and discharge of the common obligations of	 themarried	 state; the state of things may usually	 be  termed,for  short,  'the  home'.  There can  be  desertion  withoutprevious  cohabitation	by  the	 parties,  or  without	 themarriage having been consummated.The  person who actually withdraws from cohabitation is	 notnecessarily  the deserting party. , The fact that a  husbandmakes  an  allowance to a wife whom he has abandoned  is  noanswer to a charge of desertion.The offence of desertion is a course of conduct which existsindependently  of its duration, but as a ground for  divorceit  must  exist	 for  a	 period	 of  at	 least	three  yearsimmediately  preceding the presentation of the petition	 or,where the offence appears as a cross-charge, of the  answer.Desertion as a ground of divorce differs from the  statutorygrounds of adultery and cruelty in that the offence foundingthe  cause  of action of desertion is not complete,  but  isinchoate,  until  the suit is constituted.  Desertion  is  acontinuing offence".Thus  the  quality  of permanence is one  of  the  essentialelements which differentiates desertion from851wilful separation.  If a spouse abandon the other spouse  ina state of temporary passion, for example, anger or disgust,without intending permanently to cease cohabitation, it willnot  amount to desertion.' For the offence of desertion,  sofar  as	 the deserting spouse is  concerned,  two  essentialconditions  must  be  there.,  namely,	(1)  the  factum  ofseparation,  and  (2) the intention  to	 bring	cohabitationpermanently  to	 an end (animus deserendi ).  Similarly	 twoelements are essential so far as the deserted spouse is con-cerned:	 (1)  the  absence of consent, and  (2)	 absence  ofconduct	 giving reasonable cause to the spouse	leaving	 thematrimonial home to form the necessary intention  aforesaid.The petitioner for divorce bears the burden of proving thoseelements in the two spouses respectively.  Here a differencebetween the English law and the law as enacted by the BombayLegislature  may be pointed out.  Whereas under the  Englishlaw those essential conditions must continue throughout	 thecourse	 of  the  three	 years	immediately  preceding	 theinstitution  of	 the suit for divorce; under  the  Act,	 theperiod	is  four  years without specifying  that  it  shouldimmediately  precede  the commencement	of  proceedings	 fordivorce.   Whether the omission of the last clause  has	 anypractical result need not detain us, as it does not call fordecision  in  the present case.	 Desertion is  a  matter  ofinference  to be drawn from the facts and  circumstances  ofeach  case.  The inference may be drawn from  certain  factswhich  may not in another case be capable of leading to	 thesame inference; that is to say, the facts have to be  viewedas  to	the purpose which is revealed by those	acts  or  byconduct	 and  expression  of intention,	 both  anterior	 andsubsequent  to the actual acts of separation.  If, in  fact,there  has been a separation, the essential question  alwaysis  whether  that  act could be attributable  to  an  animusdeserendi.  The offence of desertion commences when the factof separation and the animus deserendi co-exist.  But it  isnot  necessary that they should commence at the	 same  time.The  de	 facto	separation may have  commenced	without	 thenecessary animus or it may be that the separation852and  the  animus deserendi coincide in point  of  time;	 forexample,  when	the separating spouse abandons	the  maritalhome  with  the intention, express or-implied,	of  bringingcohabitation permanently to a close.  The law in England hasprescribed a three year period and the Bombay Act prescribesa  period of four years as a continuous period during  whichthe two elements must subsist.	Hence, if a deserting spousetakes  advantage of the locus poenitentiae thus provided  bylaw  and  decides to come back to the deserted spouse  by  abonafide offer of resuming the matrimonial some with all theimplications of marital life, before the statutory period isout  or	 even  after  the  lapse  of  that  period,   unlessproceedings  for  divorce have	been  commenced,,  desertioncomes  to  an end and if the  deserted	spouse	unreasonablyrefuses	 the offer, the latter may be in desertion  and	 notthe  former.   Hence  it is necessary that  during  all	 theperiod	that there has been a desertion the deserted  spousemust affirm the marriage and be ready and willing to  resumemarried life on such conditions as may be reasonable.  It isalso  well  settled  that in proceedings  for  divorce'	 theplaintiff  must	 prove the offence of  desertion,  like	 anyother  matrimonial  offence, beyond  all  reasonable  doubt.Hence,	though corroboration is not required as an  absoluterule of law, the courts insist upon corroborative  evidence,unless	its absence is accounted for to the satisfaction  ofthe court.  In this connection the following observations ofLord Goddard, C.J. in the case of Lawson v. Lawson(1) may bereferred to:-"These	cases  are  not	 cases	in  which  corroboration  isrequired as a matter of law.  It is required as a matter  ofprecaution...............With  these  preliminary  observations	we  now	 proceed  toexamine	 the evidence led on behalf of the parties  to	findout  whether desertion has been proved in this case and,  ifso,  whether  there  was a bona fide offer by  the  wife  toreturn	to her matrimonial home with a view  to	 dischargingmarital duties and, if so, whether(1)  [1955] 1 All E.R. 341, 342.853there was an unreasonable refusal on the part of the husbandto take her back.In this connection the plaintiff in the witness box  deposedto  the	 incident of the night of May 20, 1947.	  He  statedthat  at  night he found that his bed had been made  in	 thehall  in  which	 his  father used to  sleep,  and  on  beingquestioned  by	him, the defendant told him that it  was  sodone with a view to giving him the opportunity after a	longabsence	 in  England to talk to his father.   The  plaintiffexpressed  his wish to the defendant that they should  sleepin  the same room as they used to before his  departure	 forEngland,  to  which  the wife replied that as  the  bed	 hadalready	 been  made, "it would look indecent  if  they	wereremoved".   The plaintiff therefore slept in the  hall	thatnight.	This incident was relied upon by the plaintiff	witha view to showing that the wife had already made up her mindto  stop cohabitation.	This incident has not been  admittedby  the	 defendant in her cross-examination.  On  the  otherhand  she would make it out that it was at the	instance  ofthe  plaintiff that the bed had been made in the hall  occu-pied by his father and that it was the plaintiff and not shewho was responsible for their sleeping apart that night.  Asthe  learned  trial  Judge  has	 preferred  the	 plaintiff'stestimony  to that of the defendant on all matters on  whichthere  was simply oath against oath, we would not go  behindthat  finding.	 This incident by itself is  capable  of  aninnocent  explanation and therefore has to be  viewed  alongwith  the  other incidents deposed to by  the  plaintiff  inorder  to  prove  his case of desertion	 by  the  defendant.There  was no reason why the husband should have thought  ofsleeping apart from the wife because there was no suggestionin  the record that the husband was aware till then  of	 thealleged	 relationship  between the defendant  and  Mahendra.But  the wife may have been apprehensive that the  plaintiffhad known of her relations with Mahendra.  That apprehensionmay have induced her to keep out of the plaintiff's way.The most important event which led to the ulti-854mate rupture between the parties took place on May 21, 1947,when in the morning the plaintiff's father placed Mahendra'sletter aforesaid in the plaintiff's hands.  The letter whichhas rightly been pointed out in the courts below as the rootcase  of  the  trouble is in its  relevant  parts  in  theseterms:-"Mahendrababu,Your  letter  has been received.  I have read the  same	 andhave noted the contents.  In the same way, I hope, you	willtake the trouble of writing me a letter now and then.  I  amwriting,  this letter with fear in my mind, because if	thisreaches	 anybody's hands, that cannot be said to be  decent.What  the mind feels has got to be constrained in  the	mindonly.	On the pretext of lulling (my) son to sleep, I	havebeen sitting here in this attic, writing this letter to you.All  others are chitchatting below.  I am thinking  now	 andthen that I shall write this and shall write that.  Just nowmy  brain cannot go in any way.	 I do not feel like  writingon  the main point.  The matters on which we were to  remainanxious and you particularly were anxious, well we need	 notnow be. I very much repented later on in my mind.  But afterall love is such an affair. (Love begets love).     ........................................"While	yet  busy doing services to  my	 mother-in-law,	 theclock strikes twelve.  At this time, I think of you and	 youonly,  and  your portrait shoots up before my  eyes.   I  amreminded  of you every time.  You write of coming, but	justnow  there  is nothing like a necessity,  why  unnecessarilywaste  money?  And again nobody gets salvation at  my  bandsand really nobody will.	 You know the natures of all.	Manya time I get tired and keep on being uneasy in my mind,	 andin the end I weep and pray God and say, 0 Lord, kindly	takeme  away soon: I am not obsessed by any kind of anxiety	 andso  relieve me from this mundane existence.  I do  not	knowhow   many   times  I  must  be	 thinking   of	 you   everyday................"This  letter is not signed by the defendant and in place  ofthe signature the word "namaste" finds855place.	  The  contents	 of  the  letter  were	put  to	 thedefendant in cross-examination.	 At that time it was no morea   contested  document,  the  defendant's  counsel   havingadmitted it during the cross-examination" of the  plaintiff.She  stated that she had feelings for Mahendra as a  brotherand not as a lover' When the mysterious parts of the  letterbeginning  with the words "The matters on which" and  endingwith  the words "such an affair" were put to her, she  couldnot  give any explanation as to what she meant.	 She  deniedthe  suggestion	 made on behalf of the	plaintiff  in  thesewords:-"It is not true that the reference here is to our having hadsexual	intercourse  and being afraid that  I  might  remainpregnant".The sentence "I very much repented later on in my mind"	 wasalso  put to her specifically and her answer was "I  do	 notknow  what I repented for.  I wrote some  thing	 foolishly".Pressed further about the meaning of the next sentence afterthat, her answer was "I cannot now understand how I came  towrite such a letter.  I admit that this reads like a  letterwritten	 by a girl to her lover.  Besides the fact  that  mybrain was not working properly I bad no explanation to	giveas  to how I wrote such a letter".  She also  admitted	thatshe  took  good care to see that the. other members  of	 thefamily,	 meaning the mother-in-law and	the  sisters-in-law,did not see her writing that letter and that she wanted thatthe  letter should remain a secret to them.   Being  furtherpressed	 to  explain the sentence "We need  not	 be  anxiousnow", her answer was " I did not intend to convey that I hadgot my monthly period about which we were anxious.  I cannotsay  what  the normal natural meaning of this  letter  wouldbe".   She bad admitted having received at least one  letterfrom Mahendra.	Though it would appear from the trend of hercross-examination  that she received more letters than	one,she  stated  that she did not preserve any of  his  letters.She  has further admitted in cross-examination "I  have	 notsigned	this letter.  It must have remained to be signed  bymistake.  I admit that under the856letter	where  the signature should be I have put  the	word'Namaste'  only.   It is not true that I did not  sign	thisletter	because I was afraid, that if it got into the  handsof  any one, it might compromise me and Mahendra.   Mahendrawould  have  known  from my handwriting	 that  this  was  myletter.	  I had previously written one letter to him.	Thatletter also I had not signed.  I had only said 'Namaste"'.The  tenor of the letter and the defendant's explanation  orwant of explanation in the witness box of those portions  ofthe  letter which very much need explanation would leave  nomanner	of  doubt in any person who read  that	letter	thatthere  was something between her and Mahendra which she	 wasinterested to keep a secret from everybody.  Even when giventhe opportunity to explain, if she could, those portions  ofthe letter, she was not able to put any innocent meaning  toher words except saying in a bland way that it was a  letterfrom  a	 sister	 to  a brother.	  The  trial  court  rightlydiscredited  her  testimony  relating to  her  answers	withrespect	 to the contents of the letter.	 The letter shows  acorrespondence	between her and Mahendra which	was  clearlyunworthy  of  a faithful wife and her pose of  innocence  bycharacterising	it  as	between a sister and  a	 brother  ismanifestly disingenuous.  Her explanation, if any, is whollyunacceptable.  The plaintiff naturally got suspicious of hiswife and naturally taxed her with reference to the  contentsof the letter.	That she had a guilty mind in respect of theletter is shown by the fact that she at first denied  havingwritten	 any such letter to Mahendra, a denial in which	 shepersisted even in her answer to the plaint.  The plaintiff'sevidence  that	he  showed her a photostatic  copy  of	thatletter	on May 23, 1947, and that she then  admitted  havingwritten	 that  letter and that she bad tender  feelings	 forMahendra  can easily be believed.  The learned	trial  Judgewas therefore justified in coming to the conclusion that theletter	betrayed on the part of the writer "a  consciousnessof guilt".  But it is questionable how far the learned Judgewas justified in observing further that' the contents of the857letter "are only capable of the interpretation that she	 hadmisbehaved   with  Mahendra  during  the  absence   of	 theplaintiff".   If he meant by the word "misbehaved" that	 thedefendant  had sexual intercourse with Mahendra, he  may  besaid  to  have	jumped	to  the	 conclusion  which  did	 notnecessarily  follow as the only conclusion from	 them.	 Thevery fact that a married girl was writing amorous letters toa  man other than her husband was reprehensible	 and  easilycapable	 of  furnishing	 good grounds  to  the	husband	 forsuspecting  the	 wife's fidelity.  So far there	 can  be  nodifficulty in assuming that the husband was fully  justifiedin  losing  temper with his wife and in insisting  upon	 herrepentance and assurance of good conduct in future.  But  weare not prepared to say that the contents of the letter	 arecapable	 of only that interpretation and no other.   On	 theother  hand,  the learned Judges of the	 Appeal	 Court	wereinclined  to view this letter as an evidence merely of	whatis  sometimes characterised as "platonic love"	between	 twopersons who by reasons of bond of matrimony are compelled torestrain  themselves  and  not to  go  further	than  merelyshowing	 love  and  devotion for each  other.	We  are	 notprepared  to take such a lenient, almost indulgent, view  ofthe  wife's conduct as betrayed in the letter  in  question.We  cannot but sympathise with the husband in taking a	veryserious	 view of the lapse on the wife's part.	The  learnedJudges	of the Appeal Court have castigated the counsel	 forthe  plaintiff for putting those questions to the  defendantin  cross-examination.	 They  observe	in  their   judgment(speaking  through  the	 Chief Justice) that  there  was  nojustification  for the counsel for the plaintiff to  put  tothe   defendant	  those	  questions   in   cross-examinationsuggesting  that  she  had intercourse with  Mahendra  as  aresult of which they were apprehending future trouble in theshape of pregnancy and illegitimate child birth.  It is truethat it was not in terms the plaintiff's case that there hadbeen  an  adulterous intercourse between the  defendant	 andMahendra.  That need not have been so, because the Act	doesnot recognise adultery as one of the grounds858for  divorce.  But we do not agree with the appellate  Courtthat  those questions to the defendant in  cross-examinationwere  not justified.  The plaintiff proposed to	 prove	thatthe  discovery of the incriminating letter containing  thosemysterious  sentences was the occasion for the defendant  tomake  up  her  mind  to desert,the  plaintiff.	 We  do	 nottherefore agree with the observations of the appellate Courtin  all	 that  they have said in respect of  the  letter  inquestion.There  can be no doubt that the letter in question made	 theplaintiff strongly suspicious of his wife's conduct (to	 putit  rather mildly), and naturally he taxed his wife to	knowfrom her as to what she bad to say about her relations	withMahendra.   She	 is  said  to have  confessed  to  him	thatMahendra  was  a better man than the plaintiff and  that  heloved her and she loved him.  When matters had come to	sucha  head, the natural reaction of the parties would  be	thatthe  husband would get not only depressed, as the  plaintiffadmitted  in the witness box, but would in the	first  blushthink  of  getting  rid	 of  such  an  unloving,  if  not  afaithless,  wife.   The natural reaction  of  the  defendantwould be not to face the husband in that frame of mind.	 Shewould  naturally wish to be out of the sight of her  husbandat least for some time, to gain time for trying, if she	 wasso   minded,  to  reestablish  herself	in   her   husband'sestimation  and	 affection, if not love.  The event  of	 theafternoon of May 24, 1947, must therefore be viewed in	thatlight.	There was going to be performed the marriage of	 thedefendant's  cousin  at her father's place  of	business  inJalgaon,  though it was about five to six weeks	 from  then.The  plaintiff	would make it out in his evidence  that	 sheleft  rather in a recalcitrant mood in the afternoon  duringhis  absence in office with all her belongings and that	 shehad  refused his offer of being sent in his car	 to  stationand Rs. 100 for' expenses.  This conduct on the part of	 thewife  can  easily be explained as that of a person  who	 hadfound  that  her  love letter had  been	 discovered  by	 thehusband.   She	would-naturally try to flee  away  from	 thehusband for the time being at least because she had not the859moral  courage	to face him.  The question  is	whether	 herleaving	 her marital home on the afternoon of May 24,  1947,is only consistent with her having deserted, her husband, inthe sense that she had deliberately' decided permanently  toforsake all relationship with her husband with the intentionof  not returning to consortium, without the consent of	 thehusband	 and  against his wishes.  That is  the	 plaintiff'scase.	 May  that  conduct  be	 not  consistent  with	 thedefendant's case that she had not any such intention,  i.e.,being in desertion?  The following observations of  Pollock,M. R. in Thomas v. Thomas(1) may usefully be quoted in	thisconnection:-"Desertion  is	not  a single act  complete  in	 itself	 andrevocable by a single act of repentance.The  act  of  departure	 from the  other  spouse  draws	 itssignificance  from  the purpose with which it  is  done,  asrevealed  by conduct or other expressions of intention:	 seeCharter	  v.  Charter(2).   A  mere  temporary	parting	  isequivocal,  unless and until its purpose and object is	madeplain. I  agree  with the observations of Day J. in  Wilkinson  v.Wilkinson(3)  that  desertion is not a specific act,  but  acourse	of conduct.  As Corell Barnes J. said in Sickert  v.Sickert(4): 'The party who intends bringing the cohabitationto  an	end,  and  whose  conduct  in  reality	causes	 itstermination, commits the act of desertion'.  That conduct isnot  necessarily wiped out by a letter of invitation to	 thewife to return".The defendant's further case that she bad been turned out ofthe  house  by the husband under duress cannot	be  acceptedbecause it is not corroborated either by circumstances or bydirect	testimony.  Neither her father nor her cousin say  aword  about her speaking to them on her arrival	 at  Jalgaonthat she had been turned out of her husband's home.  If	 hercase  that she bad been forcibly turned out of	her  maritalhome by the husband had been made out, certainly the husbandwould have been guilty of "constructive desertion",  becausethe test is riot who(1)  [1924] P. 194.(3)  58 J. P. 415.(2)  84 L T. 272.(4)  [1899] P. 278, 282,860left the matrimonial home first. (See Lang v. Lang(1)).	  Ifone spouse by his words and conduct compel the other  spouseto  leave  the marital home. the former would be  guilty  ofdesertion,  though  it	is the	latter	who  has  physicallyseparated  from	 the other and has been made  to  leave	 themarital	 home.	 It should be noted that the  wife  did	 notcross-petition	for divorce or for any other relief.   Henceit is no more necessary for us to go into that question.  Itis enough to point out that we are not prepared to rely uponthe uncorroborated testimony 'of the defendant Chat she	 hadbeen  compelled to leave her marital home by the threats  ofthe plaintiff.The  happenings of May 24, 1947, as pointed out	 above,	 areconsistent  with  the plaintiff's case of desertion  by	 thewife.  But they are also consistent not with the defendant'scase as actually Pleaded in her written statement, but	withthe  fact;  and	 circumstances disclosed  in  the  evidence,namely,	 that  the defendant having been discovered  in	 herclandestine   amorous  correspondence  with   her   supposedparamour  Mahendra,  she could not face her husband  or	 herhusband's  people  living  in the same flat  in	 Bombay	 andtherefore  shamefacedly	 withdrew herself and  went  to	 herparent's place of business in Jalgaon on the pretext of	 themarriage of her cousin which was yet far off.  That she	 wasnot  expected at Jalgaon on that day in connection with	 themarriage  is proved by her own admission in the witness	 boxthat  "when I went to Jalgaon everyone was  surprised".	  Aspointed	 out above, the burden is on the plaintiff to  provedesertion  without  cause for the statutory period  of	fouryears, that is. to say, that the deserting spouse must be indesertion  throughout the whole period.	 In this  connectionthe  following observations of Lord Macmillan in his  speechin the House of Lords in the case of Pratt v. Pratt(2 )	 areapposite:-"In my opinion what is required of a petitioner for  divorceon  the	 ground of desertion is proof  that  throughout	 thewhole  course of the three years the respondent has  withoutcause been in desertion.  The(1) [1955] A.C. 402. 417.(2) [1939] A C. 417, 420.861,deserting  spouse  must be shown to have  persisted  in	 theintention  to  desert  throughout  the	whole  period.	  Infulfilling its duty of determining whether on the evidence acase  of desertion without cause has been proved  the  courtought  not,  in	 my opinion, to leave  out  of	account	 theattitude  of  mind of the petitioner.  If on  the  facts  itappears that a petitioning husband has made it plain to	 hisdeserting  wife that he will not receive her back, or if  hehas  repelled  all  the advances which	she  may  have	madetowards	 a  resumption of married life, he  cannot  complainthat she has persisted without cause in her desertion".It  is	true that the defendant did not plead that  she	 hadleft  her  husband's  home in Bombay  in  the  circumstancesindicated   above.    She,  on	the  other   hand,   pleadedconstructive  desertion	 by  the  husband.   That  case,  asalready observed, she has failed to substantiate by reliableevidence.   But	 the fact that the defendant has  so  faileddoes  not  necessarily	lead  to  the  conclusion  that	 theplaintiff has succeeded in proving his case.  The  plaintiffmust  satisfy  the  court that the  defendant  had  been  indesertion  for	the  continuous	 period	 of  four  years  asrequired by the Act.  If we come to the conclusion that	 thehappenings  of	May 24, 1947, are consistent with  both	 theconflicting theories, it is plain that the plaintiff has notsucceeded  in bringing the offence of desertion home to	 thedefendant  beyond all reasonable doubt.	 We  must  thereforeexamine	 what  other  evidence there is in  support  of	 theplaintiff's  case  and in corroboration of his	evidence  incourt.The  next  event  of importance in  this  narrative  is	 theplaintiff's  solicitor's letter of July 15, 1947,  addressedto  the	 defendant,  care of her  father  at  Jalgaon.	 Thedefendant's cousin's marriage was performed towards the	 endof June and she could have come back to her husband's place,soon thereafter' Her evidence is that after the marriage hadbeen  performed	 she was making preparations to go  back  toBombay but her father detained her and asked her to await  aletter from the plaintiff.  The defendant instead of gettingan invitation from the plaintiff to862come  back  to	the marital home  received  the	 solicitor'sletter	 aforesaid,  which,  to	 say  the  least,  was	 notcalculated  to bring the parties nearer.  The letter  is  inthese terms:-"Madam,Under instructions from our client Bipin Chandra J.    Shahwe have to address you as under:-That  you were married to our client in or about April	1942at  Patan.   Since  the marriage you and  our  client  livedtogether mostly in Bombay and son by name Kirit was born  onor about the 10th day of September 1944.Our  client. states that he left for Europe in January	lastand  returned  by the end of May last.	After  our  client'sreturn,	 our client learnt that during our client's  absencefrom India you developed intimacy with one Mahendra and	 youfailed to give any satisfactory reply when questioned  aboutthe  same  and left for your parents under  the	 pretext  ofattending to the marriage ceremony of your cousin.  You havealso  taken  the  minor	 with you and  since  then  you	 areresiding with your father to evade any satisfactoryexplanation.Our client states that under the events that have  happened,our  client has become entitled to obtain a divorce and	 ourclient does not desire to keep you any longer under his careand protection.	 Our client desires the minor to be kept  byhim  and we are instructed to request you to send  back	 theminor to our client or if necessary our client will send hisagent to bring the minor to him.  Our client further  statesthat  in any event it will be in the interest of  the  minorthat  he should stay with our client.  Our client  has	madethis  inquiry  about the minor to avoid	 any  unpleasantnesswhen our client's agent comes to receive the minor".The  letter  is	 remarkable  in	 some  respects,apart	fromantedating the birth of the son Kirit by a year.  The letterdoes  not  in  terms  allege  that  the	 defendant  was	  indesertion, apart from mentioning the fact that she had	leftagainst the plaintiff's wishes or that she had done so	withthe intention of permanently abandon863ing her marital duties.	 On the other hand, it alleges	that"You are residing with your father to avoid any satisfactoryexplanation".	The most important part of the letter is  tothe effect that the plaintiff had "become entitled to obtaina  divorce"  and that he "does not desire to  keep  you	 anylonger	under  his  care  and  protection".   Thus  if	 thesolicitor's  letter is any indication of the working of	 themind  of the plaintiff, it makes it clear that at that	timethe plaintiff did not believe that the defendant had been indesertion and that the plaintiff had positively come to	 thedetermination  that he was no longer prepared to affirm	 themarriage  relationship.	  As already indicated, one  of	 theessential  conditions  for  success in a  suit	for  divorcegrounded  upon desertion is that the deserted spouse  shouldhave been willing to fulfill his or her part of the  maritalduties.	  The statement of the law in para 457 at p. 244  ofHalsbury's  Laws  of  England  (3rd Edn.   Vol	12)  may  beusefully quoted:"The  burden  is on the petitioner to  show  that  desertionwithout	 cause subsisted, throughout the  statutory  period.The deserting spouse must be shown to have persisted in	 theintention  to desert throughout the whole of the three	yearperiod.	  It has been said that a petitioner should be	ablehonestly  to  say that he or she was all  along	 willing  tofulfill	 the duties of the marriage, and that the  desertionwas  against his or her will, and continued  throughout	 thestatutory period without his or her consent; but in practiceit  is accepted that once desertion has been started by	 thefault of the deserting spouse, it is no longer necessary forthe  deserted  spouse to show that during  the	three  yearspreceding  the petition be or she actually wanted the  otherspouse to come back, for the intention to desert is presumedto continue.  That presumption may, however, be rebutted".Applying  those	 observations to the facts  of	the  presentcase,  can the plaintiff honestly say that be was all  alongwilling	 to fulfill the duties of the marriage and that	 thedefendant's  desertion,	 if any,  continued  throughout	 thestatutory  period without his consent.	The letter, Ex.	  A)is an emphatic no.  In the first864place, even the plaintiff in that letter did not allege	 anydesertion and, secondly, he was not prepared to receive	 herback to the matrimonial home.  Realising his difficulty whencross-examined as to the contents of that letter, he  wishedthe court to believe that at the time the letter was writtenin his presence he was "in a confused state of mind" and didnot  remember exactly whether he noticed the sentence  -thathe did not desire to keep his wife any longer.	Pressed fur-ther  in  cross-examination,  he was very  emphatic  in	 hisanswer and stated:-"It  is not true that by the date of this letter I had	madeup  my mind not to take her back.  It was my hope  that	 theletter	might  induce  her  parents to	find  out  what	 hadhappened,  and they would persuade her to come back.   I  amstill in the confused state of mind that despite my repeatedattempts my wife puts me off".In our opinion, the contents of the letter could not thus beexplained away by the plaintiff in the witness box.  On	 theother hand, it shows that about seven weeks after the wife'sdeparture for her father's place the plaintiff had at  leastfor the time being convinced himself that the defendant	 wasno  more a suitable person to live with.  That, as found  byus,  be was justified in this attitude by the  reprehensibleconduct of his wife during his absence is beside the  point.This  letter has an importance of its own only in so far  asit  does  not corroborate the plaintiff's version  that	 thedefendant  was in desertion and that the plaintiff  was	 allalong  anxious	to  induce her to come back  to	 him.	Thisletter	is  more consistent with the  supposition  that	 thehusband was very angry with her on account of her conduct asbetrayed  by the letter, Ex.  E and that the wife  left	 herhusband's place in shame not having the courage to face	 himafter  that discovery.	But that will not render her in	 theeye of the law a deserter, as observed by Pollock, M. R.  inBowron	v.  Bowron(1)  partly quoting from  Lord  Gorell  asfollows:-"In most cases of desertion the guilty party(1)  [1925] P. 187, 192.865actually  leaves  the  other,  but  it	is  not	 always	  ornecessarily  the  guilty party who  leaves  the	 matrimonialhome.	In  my opinion, the party who intends  bringing	 thecohabitation to an end, and whose conduct in reality  causesits  termination,  commits the act of  desertion:  See	alsoGraves	v.  Graves(1);	Pulford v.  Pulford(2);	 Jackson  v.Jackson(2);  where  Sir	 Henry Duke  P.	 explains  the	samedoctrine.   You must look at the conduct of the spouses	 andascertain their real intention".It is true that once it is found that one of the spouses hasbeen in desertion, the presumption is that the desertion hascontinued  and	that it is not necessary  for  the  desertedspouse actually to take steps to bring the deserting  spouseback  to  the matrimonial home.	 So far we do  not.find	 anyconvincing evidence in proof of the alleged desertion by thewife  and naturally therefore the presumption  of  continueddesertion cannot arise.But  it is not necessary that at the time the wife left	 herhusband's home, she should have at the same time the  animusdeserendi.   Let us therefore examine the  question  whetherthe  defendant	in  this  case, even  if  she  had  no	suchintention at the time she left Bombay, subsequently  decidedto put an end to the matrimonial tie.  This is in consonancewith  the latest pronouncement of the Judicial Committee  ofthe  Privy  Council  in the case of Lang v.  Lang(1)  in  anappeal from the decision of the High Court of Australia,  tothe following effect:-"Both  in England and in Australia, to	establish  desertiontwo  things  must  be proved:  first,  certain	outward	 andvisible	 conduct  the 'factum' of desertion;  secondly,	 the'animus deserendi' the intention underlying this conduct  tobring the matrimonial union to an end.In ordinary desertion the factum is simple: it is the act ofthe  absconding party in leaving the matrimonial home.	 Thecontest	 in  such a case will be almost entirely as  to	 the'animus'.  Was the intention(1)  3 Sw. & Tr. 350.(3)  [1924] P. 19.(2)  [1923] P. 18.(4)  [1955] A.G. 402, 417.866of  the party leaving the home to break it up for  good,  orsomething short of, or different from that?"In  this connection the episode of November, 1947, when	 theplaintiff's  mother came from Patan to Bombay  is  relevant.It  appears to be common ground now that the  defendant	 hadagreed	to  come back to Bombay along with  the	 plaintiff'smother	or after a few days.  But on this information  beinggiven  to the plaintiff he countermanded any such  steps  onthe  wife's part by sending the telegram,  Ex.	 B,aforesaidand the plaintiff's father's letter dated November 15, 1947.'We  are  keeping out of consideration for the	present	 theletter,	 Ex.   C,  dated November 13,  1947,  which  is	 notadmitted  to have been received either by the  defendant  orher father.  The telegram is in peremptory terms: "Must	 notsend  Prabha".	 The  letter of November 15,  1947,  by	 theplaintiff's  father  to the defendant's	 father	 is  equallyperemptory.   It says "It is absolutely necessary  that	 youshould	obtain	the  consent of	 Chi.	Bipinchandra  beforesending	 Chi.	Prabhavati".  The telegram  and	 the  letterwhich  is  a  supplement to the telegram, as  found  by	 thecourts below, completely negative the plaintiff's  statementin court that he was all along ready and willing to  receivethe defendant back to his home.	 The letter of November	 13,1947, Ex.  C, which the plaintiff claims to have written  tohis  father-in-law in explanation of the telegram and  is  aprelude	 to it is altogether out of tune with the  tenor  ofthe letter and the telegram referred to above.	The  receiptof  this  letter has been denied by the	 defendant  and	 herfather.	  In court this letter has been described as a	fakein  the	 sense that it was an afterthought and	was  writtenwith  a. view to the legal position and particularly with  aview to getting rid of the effect of the solicitor's  letterof  July  15, which the plaintiff found it hard	 to  explainaway in the witness box.  Neither the trial court, which wasentirely  in favour of the plaintiff and which had  acceptedthe  letter as genuine, nor the appellate Court,  which	 wasentirely  in  favour of the defendant  has  placed  implicitfaith in the bona fides of this letter.	 The lower appellateCourt867is  rather ironical about it, observing "This letter  as  itwere  stands in isolated glory.	 There is no  other  letter.There  is  no  other  conduct  of  the	plaintiff  which  isconsistent  with  this	letter".   Without  going  into	 thecontroversy  as	 to the genuineness or bona  fldes  of	thisletter,	 it  can be said that the plaintiff's  attitude,  asdisclosed therein, was that he was prepared to take her backinto the matrimonial home provided she wrote a letter to himexpressing real repentance and confession of mistake.	Thisattitude of the plaintiff cannot be said to be	unreasonablein  the	 circumstances	of the case.   He  was	more  sinnedagainst	 than  sinning at the beginning of  the	 controversybetween the husband and the wife.This  brings  us to a consideration of	the  three  attemptsalleged by the plaintiff to have been made by him to  inducehis wife to return to the matrimonial home when he made	 twojourneys  to Patan in 1948 and the third journey  in  April-May, 1949, to Jalgaon.	These three visits are not denied bythe  defendant.	 The only difference between the parties  isas to the purpose of the visit and the substance of the talkbetween	 them.	 That  the plaintiff's	attachment  for	 thedefendant had not completely dried up is proved by the	factthat  when he came to know that she had been suffering	fromtyphoid he went to Patan to see her.  On this occasion whichwas  the  second visit the plaintiff does not  say  that  heproposed to her to come back and that she refused to do	 so.He  only  says that she did not express any desire  to	comeback.	That may be explained as being due to diffidence  onher part.  But in respect of the first and the third  visitsthe plaintiff states that on both those occasions he  wantedher  to come back but she refused.  On the other  hand,	 thedefendant's  version  is that the purpose of his  visit	 wasonly to take away the child and not to take her back to	 hishome.	It  is	also  the  plaintiff's	complaint  that	 thedefendant  never  wrote any letter to him offering  to	comeback.  The wife's answer is that she did write a few lettersbefore the solicitor's letter was received by the father andthat thereafter under her father's advice she did not write868any  more to the plaintiff.  In this connection	 it  becomesnecessary to examine the evidence of her cousin Babulal	 andher father Popatlal.  Her cousin, Babulal, who was a  memberof her father's joint family, deposes that on receipt of theletter,	 Ex.  A, a fortnight later he and his father,  sincedeceased,  came	 to  Bombay and	 saw  the  plaintiff.	Theyexpostulated with him and pleaded the defendant's cause	 andasked  the plaintiff to forgive and forget and to  take	 herback.	The plaintiff's answer was that he did not  wish  tokeep his wife.	The defendant's father's evidence is to	 theeffect that after receipt of the letter, Ex.  A, he came  toBombay	and saw the plaintiff's father at his residence	 andprotested to him that "a false notice had been given to us".The  plaintiff's  father is said to have replied  that	they"would	settle the matters amicably" He also deposes  as  tohis  brother  and  his	brother's son  having  gone  to	 theplaintiff.  He further states that he with his wife and	 thedefendant  went to Patan and saw the plaintiff's mother	 andin consultation with her made arrangements to send her	backto 'Bombay.  But before that could be done the telegram, Ex.B, and the letter, Ex.	D, were received and consequently hegave up the idea of sending the defendant to Bombay  withoutstraightening  matters.	 Both these witnesses on  behalf  ofthe  defendant further deposed to the defendant having	doneseveral	 times	and  stayed  with  the	plaintiff's  family,particularly  his mother at Patan along with the  boy.	 Theevidence  of these two witnesses on behalf of the  defendantis  ample  corroboration of the defendant's  ,case  and	 theevidence  in  court that she has all along  been  ready	 andwilling	 to  go back to the matrimonial home.	The  learnedtrial  Judge has not noticed this evidence and we  have	 notthe advantage of his comment on this corroborative evidence.This  body  of evidence is in consonance  with	the  naturalcourse	of  events.   The plaintiff himself  stated  in	 thewitness box that he had sent the solicitor's' letter by	 wayof a shock treatment to the defendant's family so that	theymight  persuade	 his wife to come back	to  his	 matrimonialhome.  The subsequent869telegram and letters (assuming that both the letters of	 the13th  and 15th November had been posted in the usual  courseand  received by the addressees) would give a shock  to	 thefamily.	  Naturally  thereafter the members  of	 the  familywould  be  up  and doing to see	 that  a  reconciliation  isbrought	 about between the husband and the wife.  Hence	 thevisits	of the defendant's uncle and the father would  be  anatural conduct after they had been apprised of the  rupturebetween	 them.	 We  therefore do  not	see  any  sufficientreasons for brushing aside all that oral evidence which	 hasbeen  believed by the Lower Appellate Court and had  not  interms been disbelieved by the trial court.  This part of thecase  on  behalf  of  the  defendant  and  her	evidence  iscorroborated  by the evidence of the  defendant's  relativesaforesaid.   It	 cannot be seriously  argued  that  evidenceshould be disbelieved, because the witnesses happened to  bethe defendant's relatives.  They were naturally the  partiesmost interested in bringing about a reconciliation They wereanxious	 not only for the welfare of the defendant but	werealso  interested  in  the good name of the  family  and	 thecommunity  as is only natural in families like	these  whichhave  not  been	 so urbanised as to  completely	 ignore	 thefeelings  of  the community.  They would  therefore  be	 thepersons	 most  anxious in the interests of all	the  partiesconcerned to make efforts to bring the husband and the	wifetogether and to put an end to a controversy which they	con-sidered	 to be derogatory to the good name and, prestige  ofthe  families concerned.  The plaintiff's evidence,  on	 theother  hand,  on this part of the  case	 is  uncorroborated.Indeed	his evidence stands uncorroborated in many parts  ofhis  case and the letters already discussed run	 counter  tothe  tenor  of	his evidence in court.	 We  therefore	feelinclined  to  accept  the defendant's case  that  after	 herleaving her husband's home and after the performance of	 hercousin's  marriage she was ready and willing to go  back  toher husband.  It, follows from what we have said so far thatthe wife was not in desertion though she left her  husband'shome without any fault on the part of the870plaintiff which could justify her action in leaving him, andthat  after the lapse of a few months' stay at her  father'splace she was willing to go back to her matrimonial home.This  conclusion  is  further supported	 by  the  fact	thatbetween 1948 and 1951 the defendant stayed with her  mother-in-law	at  Patan  whenever she	 was  there,  sometimes	 formonths,	 at other times for weeks.  This conduct  is  whollyinconsistent  with the plaintiff's case that  the  defendantwas  in desertion during the four years that she was out  ofher matrimonial home.  It is more consistent with the defen-dant's	attempts  to.  get  herself  re-established  in	 herhusband's  home after the rupture in May 1947 as  aforesaid.It is also in evidence that at the suggestion of her mother-in-law	the defendant sent her three year old son to  Bombayso that be might induce his' ,father to send for the mother,The boy stayed in Bombay for about twenty days and then	 wasbrought.  back	to Patan by his father as he (the  boy)	 wasunwilling  to  stay there without the mother., This  was  inAugust_September  1948 when the defendant deposes to  havingquestioned her husband why she bad not been called back	 andthe  husband's	answer	was evasive.  Whether  or  not	thisstatement  of the defendant is true, there can be  no  doubtthat the defendant would not have allowed her little boy  ofabout  three years of age to be sent alone to Bombay  exceptin the hope that he might be instrumental in bringing  abouta  reconciliation  between the father and the  mother.	 Thedefendant  has	deposed to the several efforts made  by	 hermother-in-law  and  her father-in-law to  intercede  on	 herbehalf with the plaintiff but without any result.  There  isno  explanation	 why  the plaintiff could  not	examine	 hisfather and mother in corroboration of his case of continuousdesertion for the statutory period by the defendant.   Theirevidence  would have been as valuable, if not more, as	thatof  the	 defendant's father and cousin as  discussed  above.Thus  it is not a case where evidence was not  available  incorroboration  of the plaintiff's case.	 As the	 plaintiff'sevidence on many important aspects of the case871has  remained  uncorroborated  by evidence  which  could  beavailable  to him, we must hold that the evidence  given  bythe  plaintiff falls short of proving his case of  desertionby  his	 wife.	 Though we do not find	that  the  essentialingredients of desertion have been proved by the  plaintiff,there  cannot be the least doubt that it was  the  defendantwho had by her objectionable conduct brought about a rupturein  the matrimonial home and caused the plaintiff to  becomeso cold to her after she left him.In  view  of our finding that the plaintiff  has  failed  toprove  his  case of desertion by the defendant,	 it  is	 notnecessary  to go into the question of animus  revertendi  onwhich  considerable argument with reference to case-law	 wasaddressed to us on both sides.	For the aforesaid reasons weagree  with  the Appellate Bench of the High  Court  in	 theconclusion at which they had arrived, though not exactly forthe same reasons.  The appeal is accordingly dismissed.	 Butas  the trouble started on account of the  defendant's	con-duct, though she is successful in this Court, we direct thateach party must bear its own costs throughout.Appeal dismissed.872