PETITIONER:K. R. C. S. BALAKRISHNA CHETTY & SONS & CO.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MADRASDATE OF JUDGMENT:29/11/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1152		  1961 SCR  (2) 736 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1988 SC   6	 (17)ACT:Sales-Tax--Claim  of exemption by  licensee--If	 conditionalupon  observance  of  conditions  and	restrictions--MadrasGeneral Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Mad.  IX of 1939), s. 5.HEADNOTE:The appellants, who were dealers in Cotton yarn, obtained  alicense under the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 (IX  of1939).	Section 5 of that Act exempted such dealers from pay-ment  of  sales tax under s. 3 of the Act  subject  to	suchrestrictions   and  conditions	as  might   be	 prescribed,including  the conditions as to licenses and  license  fees.Section 13 required a licensee to keep and maintain true andcorrect accounts of the value of the goods sold and paid  byhim.   Rule 5 of the General Sales Tax Rules  provided	thatany  person  seeking exemption under S. 5 of  the  Act	mustapply  for license in Form 1 which made the license  subjectto the provisions of the Act and the rules made	 thereunder.The appellants on surprise inspection were found to maintaintwo separate sets of accounts, on the basis of one of  whichthey submitted their returns and the other737showed	 black-market	activities.    The   question	 fordetermination  in the appeal was whether the appellants	 whohad  been refused exemption and were assessed to tax,  couldclaim exemption under the Act.Held, that the question must be answered in the negative.Section	 5 of the Madras General Sales Tax Act,	 1939,	pro-perly construed, leaves no manner of doubt that an exemptionfrom  assessment thereunder is clearly conditional upon	 theobservance   by	  the  assessee	 of   the   conditions	 andrestrictions  imposed by the Act, either in the rules or  inthe  license itself, and the words 'subject to' used by	 thesection means "conditional upon".It  was	 not correct to say that licensee  was	exempt	fromassessment  so long as he held the  license  notwithstandingany  breach  of the provision of the law and that  the	onlypenalty he could be subjected to was the cancellation of hislicense or criminal prosecution.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 490 and 491of 1958.Appeals	 from  the judgment and decree	dated  February	 18,1955,  of the Madras High Court in Second Appeals Nos.	2038and 2039 of 1950.N.  R.	Raghavachariar,	 M. R. Krishnaswami  and  T.  V.  R.Tatachari, for the appellant.R. Ganapathi Iyer and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  November 29.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyKAPUR,	J.-Two	suits were brought by the appellants  for  adeclaration  against the levy of sales tax by the  State  ofMadras	and  an injunction was also prayed  for.   Both	 thesuits were decreed by the Subordinate Judge of Salem and thedecrees	 were confirmed on appeal by the District  Judge  ofSalem.	 Two  appeals were taken to the High  Court  by	 theState  of  Madras against those decrees and  by	 a  judgmentdated  February	 18, 1955, the decrees were set aside  by  acommon judgment.  Against these decrees the appellants	havebrought these appeals by a certificate of that Court.The  appellants are merchants dealing in cotton yarn.	Theyobtained  a license under s. 5 of the Madras  General  SalesTax  Act  (Act IX of 1939), hereinafter referred to  as	 the'Act'.	This license exempted738them  from assessment to sales tax under s. 3 of the Act  onthe  sale of cotton yarn and on handloom cloth	"subject  tosuch  restrictions  and	 conditions  as	 may  be  prescribedincluding  conditions as to license and license fees".	 Thelicense was issued on March 31,1941, and was renewed for thefollowing years.  On September 20, 1944, the Commercial	 TaxAuthorities  made a surprise inspection of the	premises  ofthe appellants and discovered that they were maintaining twoseparate  sets of account on the basis of one of  which	 theappellants  submitted  their  returns  to  the	 Department.Because	 the other set of account books showed	black-marketactivities of the firm Balakrishna Chetty was prosecuted andsentenced  to  six  months'  imprisonment  for	an   offenceconnected  with the breach of Cot. ton Yarn  Control  Order.During	 the  pendency	of  those  proceedings	the   DeputyCommercial Tax Officer made assessments for the years. 1943-44  and 1944-45, the tax for the former was Rs.	 37,039	 andfor  the  latter Rs. 3,140.  The  appellants  unsuccessfullyappealed against these assessments and their revisions	alsofailed.	  On August 24, 1945, the appellants brought a	suitfor  a	declaration and injunction in regard  to  the  firstassessment alleging that the assessment was against the Act.On  September 2, 1946, a similar suit was brought in  regardto the second assessment.  It is out of these suits that thepresent appeal has arisen.The  controversy  between  the	parties	 centres  round	 theinterpretation of the words "subject to" in s. 5 of the Act.The High Court has held that on a true interpretation of theprovisions  of	the Act and the rules made  thereunder,	 theobservance  of conditions of the license was  necessary	 forthe  availability  of  exemption under s.  5;  that  as	 theappellants had contravened those conditions they were liableto  pay tax for both the years notwithstanding	the  licensewhich had been issued to them under s. 5 of the Act.it  will  be  convenient  at this  stage  to  refer  to	 theprovisions of the Act which are relevant for the purpose  ofthis appeal.S.  2(b)  "  dealer" means any person  who  carries  on	 thebusiness of buying or selling goods;"739S. 2(f) " "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made  underthis Act;".S. 3(1) "Subject to the provisions of this Act, every dealershall  pay in each year a tax in accordance with  the  scalespecified below:-(a).................................(b) if his turnover ex-			 One half of  I	 perceeds twenty				 cent of such turn-thousand rupees.			 over".S. 5 "Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may  beprescribed,  including	the conditions as  to  licenses	 andlicense fees, the sale of bullion and specie, of cotton,  ofcotton yarn and of any cloth woven on handlooms and sold  bypersons	 dealing exclusively in such cloth shall  be  exemptfrom taxation under Section 3".S. 13 "Every dealer and every person licensed under  section8 shall keep and maintain a true and correct account showingthe  value of the goods sold and paid by them; and  in	casethe accounts maintained in the ordinary course, do not	showthe  same in an intelligible form, he shall maintain a	trueand  correct  account in such form as may be  prescribed  inthis behalf.".The  following	rules are relevant for the purpose  of	thisappeal and we quote the relevant portions:R. 5 "(1) Every person who-(a)..........................(b) deals with cotton and/or cotton yarn,(c).............................(d).............................(e)   shall if he desires to avail himself of the  exemptionprovided in sections 5 and 8 or of the concession of  singlepoint taxation provided in section 6, submit an	 applicationin Form-I for a licenceand the relevant portion of Form III is as follows:			     "Form III			  CottonLicence to a dealer in	  Cotton yarn			  cloth woven on handlooms740		     See rule 6(5).   Licence No.		      dated having paid a licence fee of Rs. (in words)hereby	licensed  as a dealer in Cotton/Cotton	yarn  Cottonwoven  on  handlooms  for  the year  ending  at	  (place  ofbusiness)  subject to the provisions of the  Madras  GeneralSales  Tax Act, 1939, and the rules made thereunder  and  tothe following conditions:".R.  8  "Every licence granted or renewed under	these  rulesshall be liable to cancellation by the Deputy Commercial TaxOfficer in the event of a breach of any of the provisions ofthe  Act,  or  of  the	Rules  made  thereunder	 or  of	 theconditions of the licence."The  contention raised on behalf of the appellants was	thatas  long as they held the licence it was immaterial if	theywere guilty of any infraction of the law and that they	werenot  liable  to	 any  assessment  of  sales-tax	 under	 theprovisions of the Act and the only penalty they incurred wasto  have  their licence cancelled and/or be  liable  to	 thepenalty	 which	under  the criminal  law  they	had  alreadysuffered.  The contention comes to this that in spite of thebreaches of the terms and conditions of the licence,  havinga licence was sufficient for the purpose of exemption  underthe  Act.   This  contention,  in  our	opinion,  is  whollyuntenable.  Section 3 is the charging section and s. 5 givesexemption  from taxation but that section clearly makes	 theholding of a licence subject to restrictions and  conditionsprescribed  under  the provisions of the Act and  the  rulesmade  thereunder because the opening words of  that  sectionare  "subject to such restrictions and conditions as may  beprescribed."Under B. 13 an important condition imposed under the Act  isthe keeping by the dealer and every person licensed of	trueand correct accounts showing the value of the goods sold andpaid  by him.  Next there is r. 5 of the General  Sales	 TaxRules which provided741that if any person desired to avail himself of the exemptionprovided in s. 5, he had to submit an application in Form  Ifor  a	licence and the Form of the licence shows  that	 thelicence	 was  subject to the provisions of the Act  and	 therules made thereunder which required the licensee to  submitreturns as required and also to keep true accounts under  s.13.   This shows that the giving of the licence was  subjectto certain conditions being observed by the licensee and thelicence itself was issued subject to the Act and the  rules.But it was contended that the words "subject to" do not mean"conditional  upon"  but  "liable  to  the  rules  and	 theprovisions" of the Act.	 So -construed s. 5 will become	 notonly   inelegant  but  wholly  meaningless.   On  a   properinterpretation	of  the	 section  it  only  means  that	 theexemption   under  the	licence	 is  conditional  upon	 theobservance  of	the  conditions	 prescribed  and  upon	 therestrictions which are imposed by and under the Act  whetherin the rules or in the licence itself ; that is, a  licenseeis  exempt  from assessment as long as he  conforms  to	 theconditions  of	the licence and not that he is	entitled  toexemption  whether the conditions upon which the licence  isgiven  are fulfilled or not.  The use of the words  "subjectto"  has reference to effectuating the intention of the	 lawand  the  correct meaning, in our opinion,  is	"conditionalupon".The  appellants	 have  been found to  have  contravened	 theprovisions of the Act as well as the rules and therefore  itcannot	be said that they have observed the conditions	uponwhich the exemption under the licence is available.  In thatview  of the matter, it was rightly held that they were	 notexempt	from  assessment  under the Act.   The	appeals	 aretherefore dismissed with costs.				  Appeals dismissed.94742