PETITIONER:HARIPRASAD SHIVSHANKAR SHUKLA	Vs.RESPONDENT:A.D. DIVIKAR (With Connected Appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:27/11/1956BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  121		  1957 SCR  121ACT:Industrial  Dispute-'Retrenchment', Meaning  of-If  includestermination  of service on bona fide closure of industry  orchange	of ownership or management-Construction of  statute-Industrial  Disputes  Act (XIV Of 1947), as amended  by	 ActXLIII Of 1953, ss. 2 (00), 25F.HEADNOTE:The word 'retrenchment' as defined in s. 2(oo) and the	wordretrenched' in S. 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act,  1947,as amended by Act XLIII of 1953, have no wider meaning	thanthe  ordinary accepted connotation of those words  and	meanthe discharge of surplus labour or staff by the employer forany  reason  whatsoever,  otherwise  than  as  a  punishmentinflicted by' way of disciplinary action, and do not includetermination  of	 services  of all workmen  on  a  bona	fideclosure of industry or on change of ownership or  managementthereof.Pipraich  Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Pipraich Sugar  Mills  MazdoorUnion [1956] S.C.R. 872, followed.Burn  & Co., Calcutta v. Their Employees [1956] S.C.R.	781,referred to.The  provisions	 of  the Act have in view  an  existing	 andcontinuing  industry  and  cls.	 (a), (b)  and	(c)  of	 thedefinition only exclude certain categories of termination ofservice	 from within its ambit but do not indicate what	 areto be included therein.The  word 'retrenchment' has acquired no special meaning  soas to include a discharge of workmen on a bona fide  closureof  an	industry, as a result of  certain  Labour  AppellateTribunals  awarding compensation to workmen on such  closureas  an	equitable  relief for a	 variety  of  reasons.	 Theintention  of the legislature in enacting S. 25F of the	 Actappears to have been to simplify and standardise the paymentof compensation for retrenchment, as ordinarily	 understood,on  the	 basis of the length of service	 of  the  retrenchedworkman.The  Hyderabad Vegetable Oil Products Ltd. v. Their  Workers[1950]	 2   L.L.J.  1281,  Employees  of   Messrs.    IndiaReconstruction	Corporation  [1953] L.A.C.  563	 and  KandanTextiles  Ltd.	v.  Their  Workers  [1954]  2  L.L.J.	249,considered.Section	 25FF,	which  was  inserted into  the	Act  by	 theamending  Act  of 1956, is not retrospective  and  does	 notapply to the instant16122cases,	and  the  object  the legislature  had	in  view  inenacting  the  same was to partially nullify the  effect  ofcertain	 judicial  decisions  relating to the  effect  of  achange of ownership or management and it was not intended tobe a parliamentary exposition of the pre-existing law.The  language of item Io of the third and fourth  schedules,engrafted  into the Act by S. 29 Of the Industrial  Disputes(Amendment   and   Miscellaneous  Provisions)	Act,   1956,indicates  that	 the  legislature  envisaged  a	 distinctionbetween	 retrenchment  and closure and the former  does	 notinclude the latter.Although  on  such construction, S. 25F applies only  to  anexisting industry and s. 25FF becomes largely redundant,  noquestion of any hardship arises as the judicial decisions onthe  basis  of	which S. 25FF was  enacted  were  themselvesincorrect and must be overruled.In construing a parliamentary statute the time when and	 thecircumstances  in  which it was enacted may  be	 taken	intoconsideration  and  the general principle  of  parliamentaryexposition   or	  subsequent  legislation  as  an   aid	  toconstruction  of prior legislation, can have no	 applicationwhere  the subsequent statute itself was based on  incorrectassumptions   and   judicial   decisions   based   on	suchassumptions.Great Northern Railway v. United States of America, 315 U.S.262  and Ormond Investment Co. Limited v. Betts [1928]	A.C.143, referred to.If  the	 other	conditions  of	the  definition	 clause	 arefulfilled,  the	 transfer of ownership or management  of  anindustry and its closure stand on the same footing so far asthe  definition	 clause is concerned,  notwithstanding	thatthere  is a distinction in fact between the two;  there	 is,however,   no  retrenchment  within  the  meaning   of	 thedefinition  clause  unless there is a discharge	 of  surpluslabour	or staff by the employer in a  continuing  industry,for  any reason whatsoever, otherwise than as  a  punishmentinflicted by way of disciplinary action.Consequently,  in  the	instant	 cases,	 where	in  one	 theservices of all the workmen were terminated by the  employeron  a real and bona fide closure of the industry and in	 theother  on  a change of ownership, such termination  did	 notamount to retrenchment within the meaning Of S. 2(00) or  s.25F of the Act and the appellants were not bound to pay	 anycompensation under cl. (b) Of S. 25F of the Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 103 &	 105of 1956.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated January 24,  1955,of  the Bombay High Court in Special Civil  Application	 No.2546 of 1954.123N.   A.	 Palkiwala  and J. B. Dadachanji, S. N.	 Andley	 andRameshwvar  Nath, for appellants in Civil Appeal No. 103  of1956M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney  General	for  India,  C.	  K.Daphtary, Solicitor General for India, Porus A.	  Mehta	 andR. H. Dhebar, for respondents.S.   M. Bose, Advocate-General of West of Bengal,N.    A.Palkiwala,  J.	B. Dadachanji, S. N.  Andley  and  RameshwarNath, for the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 105 of 1956.Rajini Patel, M. V. Jayakar and I. N. Shroff, for respondentNo. 1.Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for respondents Nos. 4 & 5.1956.  November 27.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS J.-These two appeals, brought  on	certificatesgranted by the High Court of Bombay, raise common  questionsof law and for that reason, have been heard together.	Thisjudgment will govern them both.	    CIVIL APPEAL No. 105 OF 1956.In  Civil Appeal No. 105 of 1956 the main appellant  is	 theBarsi  Light Railway Company Limited, Kurduwadi, within	 theState  of Bombay (hereinafter called the  Railway  Company).The principal respondent is the President of the Barsi LightRailwaymen's  Union,  respondent No. I to the  appeal.	 TheGeneral Manager, Central Railway, Bombay, and the Secretary,Railway Board, New Delhi, are respondents Nos. 4 and 5.	 Thefacts,	so  far as they are relevant for  our  purpose,	 arethese.	Under an agreement dated August 1, 1895, between theSecretary  of  State for India in Council  and	the  RailwayCompany,  the  latter constructed, maintained and  worked  alight  railway between Barsi Town and Barsi Road Station  onthe   railway  system,	known  then  as	 the  Great   IndianPeninsular  Railway.  It is not necessary to state here	 thevarious	 clauses  of the aforesaid  indenture  of  agreementexcept to mention124that  it  contained a clause under which  the  Secretary  ofState  could  purchase and take over the  undertaking  aftergiving	the  Railway Company not less than  twelve  calendarmonths'	 notice	 in writing of the intention so to  do.	  OnDecember  19,  1952,  a	 notice was  given  to	the  RailwayCompany, for and on behalf of the President of India, by theDirector  of  the  Railway  Board to  the  effect  that	 theundertaking  of the Railway Company would be  purchased	 andtaken over as from January 1, 1954.  The notice stated interalia:"The  President	 of India hereby gives this  notice  to	 theCompany of the determination of the-original contract of the1st day of August, 1895, and the contract of the 26th day ofAugust, 1902, between the Secretary of State in Council	 andthe  Barsi  Light  Railway  Company Ltd.,  and	of  all	 thecontracts  supplemental	 thereto, at the  expiration  of  12calendar  months  next	after  the  current  month  and	 thecontracts  shall terminate accordingly on the expiration  of12  calendar  months next after the current  month  and	 thePresident  of  India will on the 1st day of  January,  1954,purchase  and  take over the entire railway  system  of	 theCompany	 including  all the extension and,all  the  railwaystogether  with all its rolling stock, machinery,  equipmentsbuildings  and	property etc., and together with  all  otherthings,	 stores and fixtures etc., as specified and  in	 themanner	provided  in clause 43 of the Indenture of  the	 1stAugust, 1895, and in clause 63 of the Indenture of the	26thAugust, 1902."On November 11, 1953, the Railway Company served a notice onits workmen intimating that as a result of the Government ofIndia's	 decision to terminate the contract of	the  RailwayCompany and take over the railway from January 1, 1954,	 theservices of all the workmen of the Railway Company would  beterminated  with effect from the afternoon of  December	 31,1953.	The  notice further stated that	 the  Government  ofIndia intended to employ such of the staff of the Company aswould  be  willing  to serve on the  railway  on  terms	 andconditions which were to be notified later.  On December 15,1953, the Railway Board intimated the terms and conditions125on  which  the staff of the Railway Company would  be  takenover  and employed by Government.  The letter by  which	 theterms and conditions were communicated enclosed three forms-one   for  clerical  and  like	categories,  a	second	 forcategories  of staff needing training or  refresher  course,and a third for workshop staff and other tradesmen requiringtrade-testing.	 In substance, the new terms and  conditionsas  embodied in the letter and the three forms	stated	thatthe  service  of the staff employed by Government  would  betreated	 as continuous for certain specific  purposes  only,such  as, contribution to provident fund, leave, passes	 andprivilege ticket orders, educational and medical  facilitiesetc.   It  was	made clear,  however,  that  the  GovernmentRailway	 rules	applicable to other staff appointed  on	 thesame  day would be applicable to the 'staff of	the  RailwayCompany,  and  previous service under  the  Railway  Companywould  not count for the purpose of seniority.	 It  appearsfrom  the  statement of respondents 4 and 5  that  when	 theundertaking  was  actually taken over on  January  1,  1954,about 77 per cent. of the staff of the Railway Company	werere-employed  on the same scales of pay, about 23  per  cent.were re-employed on somewhat lower scales of pay though	 thepay  which they actually drew at the time  of  re-employmentwas  not affected; only about 24 of the former employees  ofthe Railway Company declined service under the Government.Soon   after,	respondent  No.	 I  filed   some   sixty-oneapplications  on  behalf  of the erstwhile  workmen  of	 theRailway	 Company  under s. 15 of the Payment of	 Wages	Act,1936,  for payment of retrenchment compensation to the	saidworkmen	 under cl. (b) of a. 25F of the Industrial  DisputesAct,  1947 (hereinafter called the Act).   The	applicationswere made to respondent No. 3, Civil Judge (Junior Division)Madha,	who was the relevant authority under the Payment  ofWages Act, 1936.These applications were contested by -the present appellantsand  several issues were framed.  Three of the issues  were-(1) whether the authority under the126Payment	 of Wages Act, 1936, had jurisdiction to  deal	withand  adjudicate on the claim of	 retrenchment  compensation;(2)  whether  the erstwhile workmen were entitled  to  claimcompensation under clause (b) of a. 25F of the Act ; and (3)whether they had been retrenched' by their former  employer,the  present  appellants, on December 31, 1953,	 within	 themeaning	 of the expression 'retrenchment' in the  Act.	 TheCivil Judge of Madha found against the workmen on issue	 No.I  but in their favour on the other two issues.	 By  consentof  parties,  the  aforesaid findings given on	one  of	 theapplications  (Miscellaneous  Application No.  27  of  1954)governed  the other applications also, and the	applicationswere dismissed as a result of the finding on the question ofjurisdiction.Respondent  No.	 I then moved the High Court  of  Bombay  inCivil  Application No. 2546 of 1954 and prayed for writs  orappropriate directions under the provisions of Arts. 226 and227 of the Constitution, for quashing the order of dismissalpassed	by respondent No. 3, the Civil Judge of	 Madha,	 anddirecting  the latter to dispose of the applications  beforehim   on  merits.   In	the  High  Court  the  question	  ofjurisdiction  of  the authority under the Payment  of  WagesAct,  1936, was not argued, because learned counsel for	 theRailway	 Company rightly pointed out that assuming that	 thesaid  authority had jurisdiction to deal with the  claim  ofthe  workmen, the controversy between the parties would	 notcome to an end by a decision on the question of jurisdictiononly;  because the Railway Company still contended that	 theworkmen had not been 'retrenched' within the meaning of	 theAct  and were not entitled to claim compensation  under	 al.(b)  of s. 25F.	 Thereupon, both parties agreed in the	HighCourt that Civil Application No. 2546 of 1954 should not  berestricted  to	the question of jurisdiction but  should  bedecided on merits; that is, on the validity or otherwise  ofthe claim of the erstwhile workmen to compensation under cl.(b)  of s. 25F on the termination of their services  by	 theRailway	 Company on December 31, 1953.	Learned counsel	 forthe Railway Company agreed and undertook on behalf of127his  client  to	 accept whatever finding was  given  by	 theHigh  Court on merits, subject to an appeal to	this  Court.The  High  Court  (Chagla C. J. and Dixit J.)  held  by	 itsjudgment and order dated January 24, 1955, that the  workmenwere  entitled to claim compensation under clause (b) of  s.25F  of	 the Act and the Railway Company was liable  to	 paysuch  compensation to them.  It is from that  decision	thatCivil Appeal No. 105 of 1956 has been brought.	    CIVIL APPEAL No. 103 OF 1956.The  facts in this appeal are somewhat different.  The	mainappellant  is  Shri  Dinesh  Mills  Ltd.,  Baroda,  and	 theprincipal  respondent  is the District	Labour	Officer	 andInspector  under the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, at  Baroda.The  appellant Company was running a woollen mill at  Barodafor several years and had in its employ at the relevant time450 workmen and 20 clerks.  The work was done in shifts, dayand night.  On or about October 31, 1953, the appellant	 putup a notice declaring its intention to close down the entiremills  from  December 1, 1953.	On  November  19,1953,	thisnotice was withdrawn and another notice was put up declaringthe  intention	of the appellant to close  down	 the  secondshift  with effect from December 20, 1953.  A  third  noticewas  put up saying that the second shift would be closed  onDecember 20, 1953, as notified earlier, and the first  shiftwould  be closed as from January 8, 1954.  A similar  noticewas put up on the same date terminating the services of	 theclerks with effect from January 19,1954.  It was not disput-ed  that though the steps in the process of closure  of	 thebusiness  of  the  appellant Company  were  staggered,.	 theprocess	 was really one, and as a result of the closure	 theservices  of all 450 workmen and 20 clerks were	 terminated.The  appellant	Company	 claimed that  the  closure  of	 itsbusiness was bona fide, being due to heavy losses  sustainedby the Company.On  April  27,	1954,  the  principal  respondent  made	  anapplication  to	 the relevant authority (respondent  No.  3)under the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, claiming	retrenchmentcompensation for the workmen of the128appellant  under  el.  (b)  of	s.  25F	 of  the  Act.	 Theapplication was contested by the appellant Company, and hereagain  the same questions of jurisdiction of  the  authorityunder the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, to deal with the claimand  the maintainability of the claim under el. (b)  of	 is.25F of the Act arose for decision.  The authority under	 thePayment	 of Wages Act decided against the erstwhile  workmenon all the important issues.  The respondent then moved	 theHigh  Court of Bombay for appropriate writs  or	 directions,and  the  High court (Bavdekar and Shah JJ.) held  that	 theauthority  under  the  Payment	of  Wages  Act,	 1936,	 badjurisdiction   to  deal	 with  the  claim  of	retrenchmentcompensation; on the merits of the claim, the learned Judgesfelt bound to accept the decision of the Bench (Chagla C. J.and   Dixit  J.)  in  the  case	 of  the  Railway   Company.Accordingly, the order of respondent No. 3 was set aside andhe was directed to dispose of the application before him  inaccordance  with law.  Civil Appeal No. 103 of 1956 is	fromthe  aforesaid	decision of the High Court  dated  July	 25,1955.It  should be apparent from the facts stated  above,  thoughthey  are a little different with regard to the two  appealsbefore us, that a common question "of law emerges therefrom,namely,	 whether the claim of the erstwhile workmen-both  ofthe  Railway  Company and of Shri Dinesh  Mills	 Limited--tocompensation  under cl. (b) of s. 25F of the Act is a  validclaim in law.  The second question, that of jurisdiction  ofthe authority under the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, is not alive  question	in Civil Appeal No. 105 of  1956  after	 theagreement  of  parties in the High Court.   It	does  arise,however,  in  Civil  Appeal No. 103 of	1956.	But  learnedcounsel for the appellants in that appeal has been ingenuousenough	to state that he does not wish to take our  time  byaddressing us on that question-not because he considers thatthe question of jurisdiction is devoid of all merit, but  byreason	of the fact that under the provisions of s. 25 1  ofthe Act the claim for retrenchment compensation, if found tobe legally valid, can still be enforced against the129appellants.    Section	 19  of	 the   Industrial   Disputes(Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1956, purportsto repeal s. 25 I of the principal Act, but that section hasnot  yet  been brought into force with the result  that	 theprovisions  of s. 25 I are still available for the  recoveryof   retrenchment   compensation.   Learned   counsel	has,therefore, submitted before us that these appellants will becontent	 to abide by our decision on the principal  questionin  these two appeals, namely, the validity or otherwise  ofthe claim for retrenchment compensation under cl. (b) of  s.25F of the Act.The Act which has been in force since April 1, 1947, has bada  plexus of amendments, and some of the  recent  amendmentshave been quite extensive in nature.  Section 25F occurs  inCh.   VA of the Act; that chapter dealing with 'lay off	 andretrenchment' was inserted by an amending Act (Act XLIII  of1953) in 1953.	Section 25F is in these terms:"No  workman  employed	in  any industry  who  has  been  incontinuous  service  for  not less than one  year  under  anemployer shall be retrenched by that employer until-(a)the workman has been given one month's notice in  writingindicating  the reasons for retrenchment and the  period  ofnotice has expired, or the workman has been paid in lieu  ofsuch notice, wages for the period of the notice:Provided  that	no  such notice shall be  necessary  if	 theretrenchment  is under an agreement which specifies  a	datefor the termination of service;(b)the	workman has been paid, at the time of  retrenchment,compensation  which  shall be equivalent  to  fifteen  days'average pay for every completed year of service or any	partthereof in excess of six months; and(c)notice  in  the  prescribed	manner	is  served  on	 theappropriate Government."In the first part of the provisions of the section, the wordused  is' retrenched' and in cls. (a) and (b) the word	usedis 'retrenchment'.  Obviously, they have17130the  same  meaning, the only difference being  that  in	 thefirst  part the word used is a verb and in the	clauses	 theword  is used as a noun.  It is obvious that  to  appreciatethe  true  scope  and  effect  of  s.  25F,  we	 must  firstunderstand what is meant by the expression ' retrenched ' or'retrenchment'.	  By  the same amending Act of	1953  a	 newdefinition  was	 added to the definitions in s. 2,  being  adefinition of the word ' retrenchment' in el. (oo) of s.  2.The definition is in these terms:Section	 2(oo)-" retrenchment' means the termination by	 theemployer  of  the  service  of	a  workman  for	 any  reasonwhatsoever, otherwise than as a punishment inflicted by	 wayof disciplinary action, but does not include-(a)  voluntary retirement of the workman; or(b)  retirement	 of  the  workman on  reaching	the  age  ofsuperannuation	if  the contract of employment	between	 theemployer and the workman concerned contains astipulation  inthat behalf; or(c)termination	of the service of a workman on the  groundofcontinued ill-health."Leaving out the excluding sub-cls. (a), (b) and (c) for	 thetime  being-these sub-clauses not being directly  applicableto  the cases under our -consideration-the  definition	whenanalysed   consists   of  the	following   four   essentialrequirements-(a)  termination of the service of	 a  workman;(b)  by	 the employer; (c) for any  reason  whatsoever;	 and(d)otherwise  than  as	a punishment  inflicted	 by  way  ofdisciplinary   action.	 It  must  be  conceded	  that	 thedefinition  is in very wide terms.  The	 question,  however,before us is-does this definition merely give effect to	 theordinary, accepted notion of retrenchment in an existing  orrunning industry by embodying the notion in apt and  readilyintelligible words or does it go so far beyond the  acceptednotion	of  retrenchment as to include	the  termination  ofservices  of  all workmen in an industry when  the  industryitself	 ceases	 to  exist  on	a  bona	 fide	closure	  ordiscontinuance	of  his business by the employer  9  Learnedcounsel for the appellants contend that the131first  gives  the correct meaning of the  definition,  whilelearned	 counsel for the principal respondents urge that  byreason of the wide words used in the definition, the  secondgives the correct meaning of the expression retrenchment'.There  is  no  doubt that when the  Act	 itself	 provides  adictionary  for	 the  words used, we  must  look  into	thatdictionary first for an interpretation of the words used  inthe  statute.	We  are	 not  concerned	 with  any  presumedintention  of  the legislature; our task is to	get  at	 theintention  as  expressed  in  the  statute.   Therefore,  wepropose first to examine the language of the definition	 andsee  if the ordinary, accepted notion of  retrenchment	fitsin,  squarely and fairly, with the language used.   What  isthe ordinary, accepted notion of retrenchment in an industry? We have had occasion to consider this question in PipraichSugar Mills Ltd.v.  Pipraich  Sugar Mills Mazdoor Union	 (1)where we observed:"But retrenchment connotes in its ordinaryacceptation that the business itself is being continued	 butthat  a	 portion  of  the  staff  or  the  labour  force  isdischarged as plusage and the termination of services of allthe  workmen  as  a result of the closure  of  the  businesscannot therefore be properly described as retrenchment."  Itis true that these observations were made in connection witha  case	 where the retrenchment took place in 1951,  and  wespecially   left   open	  the  question	  of   the   correctinterpretation	of the definition of 'retrenchment' in s.  2(oo)  of  the  Act.  But the  observations  do	explain	 themeaning of retrenchment in its ordinary acceptation.  Let usnow see how far that meaning fits in with the language used.We have referred earlier to the four essential	requirementsof  the definition, and the question is, does  the  ordinarymeaning	 of retrenchment fulfil those requirements ? In	 ouropinion,  it  does.  When a portion of the staff  or  labourforce	is  discharged	as  surplusage	in  a	continuing,;business,  there  are (a) termination of the  service  of  aworkman; (b) by the employer; (c) for any reason whatsoever;and (d) otherwise than as a punishment(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 872,132inflicted by way of disciplinary action.  It has been arguedthat  by excluding bona fide closure of business as  one  ofthe reasons for termination of the service of workmen by theemployer,   we	are  cutting  down  the	 amplitude  of	 theexpression 'for any reason whatsoever' and reading into	 thedefinition  words which do not occur there.  We	 agree	thatthe adoption of the ordinary meaning gives to the expression'for  any reason whatsoever' a somewhat narrower scope;	 onemay  say that it gets a color from the context in which	 theexpression  occurs; but we do not agree that it	 amounts  toimporting  new words in the definition.	 What after  all  isthe  meaning of the expression 'for any reason	whatsoever'?When a portion of the staff or labour force is discharged assurplusage   in	 a  running  or	 continuing  business,	 thetermination of service which follows may be due to a varietyof reasons; e.g., for economy, rationalization in  industry,installation  of  a  new  laborsaving  machinery  etc.	 Thelegislature   in  using	 the  expression  'for	any   reasonwhatsoever' says in effect: "It does not matter why you	 aredischarging  the surplus; if the other requirements  of	 thedefinition  are fulfilled, then it is retrenchment." In	 theabsence	 of  any  compelling  words  to	 indicate  that	 theintention  was	even to include a bona fide closure  of	 thewhole business, it would, we think, be divorcing the expres-sion  altogether  from its context to give it  such  a	widemeaning	 as  is	 contended for by learned  counsel  for	 therespondents.   What  is being defined is  retrenchment,	 andthat  is the context of the definition.	 It is true that  anartificial  definition may include a meaning different	fromor  in excess of the ordinary acceptation of the word  whichis  the	 subject  of  definition; but  there  must  then  becompelling words to show that such a meaning different	fromor  in excess of the ordinary meaning is  intended.   Where,within	the  framework of the ordinary	acceptation  of	 theword,  every single requirement of the definition clause  isfulfilled,  it	would  be wrong to take	 the  definition  asdestroying the essential meaning of the word defined.There  is  another way of looking at the  problem.   Let  usassume. that the definition clause is so worded that133the requirements laid down therein are fulfilled, whether wegive  a restricted or a wider meaning: to that extent  thereis an ambiguity and the definition clause is readily capableof more than one interpretation.  What then is the  position? We must then see what light is thrown on the true view  tobe taken of the definition clause by other provisions of theAct or even by the aim and provisions of subsequent statutesamending  the Act or dealing with the  same  subject-matter.In Pipraich Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Pipraich Sugar Mills MazdoorUnion  (1) it was observed: "It cannot be doubted  that	 theentire scheme of the Act assumes that there is in  existencean  industry,  and then proceeds onto  provide	for  varioussteps  being taken, when a dispute arises in that  industry.Thus,  the  provisions	of the	Act  relating  to  lock-out,strike, lay-off, retrenchment, conciliation and adjudicationproceedings, the period during which the awards are to be inforce, have meaning only if they refer to an industry  whichis  running  and not one which is closed." In  Burn  &	Co.,Calcutta v. Their Employees (2) this Court observed that theobject of all labour legislation was firstly, to ensure fairterms  to  the workmen, and secondly,  to  prevent  disputesbetween employers and employees so that production might notbe adversely affected and the larger interests of the publicmight  not  suffer.  It was then observed  in  The  PipraichSugar  Mills' case (1) (supra), " Both these  objects  againcan  have  their fulfillment only in an existing and  not  adead industry.	The view therefore expressed in Indian Metaland Metallurgical Corporation v. Industrial Tribunal, Madras(3)  and K. M. Padmanabha Ayyar v. The State of Madras	(4),that  the industrial dispute to which the provisions of	 theAct  apply  is	only one which arises  out  of	an  existingindustry is clearly correct.  Therefore, where the  businesshas been closed and it is either admitted or found that	 theclosure	 is  real and bona fide, any  dispute  arising	withreference  thereto would, as held in K. M. Padmanabha  Ayyarv. The State of Madras (4), fall outside the(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 872.(2)  [1956] S.C.R. 781.(3)  A.I.R. 1953 Madras 98.(4)  [1954] 1 L.L.J. 469.134purview	 of the Industrial Disputes Act." In view  of  theseobservations,  it would be against the entire scheme of	 theAct  to give the definition clause relating to	retrenchmentsuch  a	 meaning  as would  include  within  the  definitiontermination  of service of all workmen by the employer	whenthe  business itself ceases to exist.  Learned	counsel	 forthe appellants in the two appeals have pointed out that	 thedefinition  clause is inartistically drawn up  and  sub-cls.(a)  and (b) of s. 2 (oo) are not easily  intelligible	withreference  to  one  of the  essential  requirements  of	 thedefinition,  namely, that the termination of service of	 theworkman must be by the employer.  It has been submitted thatvoluntary retirement of the workmen cannot be termination ofservice	 by  the employer.  We do not, however,	 think	thatsub-cls.  (a),	(b) and (c) are conclusive of  the  questionbefore us; they, no doubt, apply to a running or  continuingbusiness  only,	 but  whether inserted by  way	of  abundantcaution or on account of excessive anxiety for clarity, theymerely exclude certain categories of termination of  servicefrom  the ambit of the definition.  They do not	 necessarilyshow what is to be included within the definition.Two  other cognate sections to which our attention has	beendrawn  are  ss. 25G and 25H.  They are	applicable,  clearlyenough,	 to a running business only.  The learned  Attorney-General,  who has appeared for the principal  respondent  inone  of the appeals, has pointed out that if the  definitionclause	covers	the  case of termination  of  service  in  acontinuing  business  as also termination of  service  on  aclosure	 of business, the circumstance that ss. 25G and	 25Hprovide for some instances of retrenchment only is no groundfor  holding  that  they  exhaust  all	possible  cases	  ofretrenchment  or  that s. 25F must also be restricted  to  arunning business only.	We agree that if it is conceded thatthe definition clause includes cases of closure of business,no  difficulty	is presented by ss. 25G and  25H.   But	 thefundamental question at issue is, does the definition clausecover cases of closure of business, when the closure is realand  bona  fide?   The	point  to  be  emphasised  in	thatconnection is that there is no135provision  (except perhaps s. 25FF inserted in 1956  by	 ActXLI of 1956 to which we shall presently refer) which can  besaid  to bring a closed or dead industry within the  purviewof  the	 Act.  The provisions of the Act,  almost  in  theirentirety, deal with an existing or continuing industry.	 Allthe  provisions	 relating to lay off in ss. 25A to  25E	 arealso inappropriate in a dead business.Learned	 counsel  for the appellants have also	adverted  tosome  surprising  results  which  would	 follow	 the   widerinterpretation	of  the definition clause.  If	an  employerdies  and  his	heirs  carry on the  business  or  there  iscompulsory  winding  up	 of a company  and  the	 company  isreconstructed  or  a business is converted  into  a  limitedcompany, or a new partner is taken into the business,  thereis in law a termination of service by a particular  employerand a new employer appears on the scene; will the workmen insuch circumstances be entitled to retrenchment	compensationthough	they  continue	in service as before  ?	 There	mustindeed be found very compelling reasons in the words of	 thestatute before it can be held that such was the intention ofthe  legislature.  We think that no such compelling  reasonsare  available	from  the  provisions of  the  Act;  on	 thecontrary,   they   point  really  one	way-that   the	 Actcontemplates  an existing or continuing industry and  not  adead industry.This  brings  us  to two other	arguments  advanced  by	 thelearned Attorney-General.  One is that before the  enactmentof the amending Act of 1953 (Act XLIII of 1953) retrenchmenthad  acquired a special meaning meaning which  included	 thepayment	 of compensation on a closure of business,  and	 thelegislature  gave effect to that meaning in  the  definitionclause and by inserting s. 25F.	 The second argument is thats. 25FF inserted in 1956 (Act XLI of 1956) is 'parliamentaryexposition"  of the meaning of the definition clause and  ofs. 25F.	 We shall now consider these two arguments.As  to	the first argument, a large number of  decisions  ofIndustrial or Lpobour Appellate Tribunals have136been  placed  before us.  The learned  Attorney-General	 hasrelied	particularly  on  three	 decisions:  The   HyderabadVegetable  Oil Products Ltd. v. Their Workers(1);  EmployeesOf Messrs.  India Reconstruction Corporation Ltd.,  Calcuttav.   Messrs.	India	Reconstruction	 Corporation   Ltd.,Calcutta(") ; Kandan Textiles Ltd. v. Their Workers(3 ). Thedecision  in  Employees	 of  Messrs.   India  ReconstructionCorporation Ltd., Calcutta v. Messrs.  India  ReconstructionCorporation  Ltd.,  Calcutta(2)	 Was  considered  by  us  inPipraich  Sugar Mills Lid. v. Pipraich Sugar  Mills  MazdoorUnion(4)where  we  said that we were unable  to	 accept	 theobservation   of  the  Tribunal	 that,	in   substance	 thedifference  between closure and normal retrenchment was	 oneof  degree  only.  We are aware that in	 some  cases  LabourAppellate  Tribunals  awarded retrenchment  compensation  onclosure of business, even when the closure was bona fide  orjustified.  We expressed our dissent from those decisions inthe  Pipraich Sugar Mills case(4).  When  closely  examined,none  of  those decisions show, however, that  discharge  ofworkmen	 on bona fide closure of business was held  to	fallwithin the meaning of normal retrenchment.  In The HyderabadVegetable Oil Products Ltd. v.. Their Workers(1) the groundson  which compensation was allowed were (1)  involuntary  orforced	unemployment  of  the workmen, (2)  absence  of	 anysocial	security scheme like unemployment insurance and	 (3)financial  position  of	 the company.	On  similar  groundscompensation  was awarded in Kandan Textiles Ltd.  v.  TheirWorkers(3) as an equitable relief, and a variety of  factorswere referred to as determining the appropriate relief to begiven  in a particular case.  We consider it unnecessary  toexamine all the decisions on this point, and it is enough toindicate what we consider to be the correct position in	 thematter.	 Retrenchment means discharge of surplus workmen  inan  existing  or  continuing business; it  had	acquired  nospecial	 meaning  so as to include discharge of	 workmen  onbona  fide  closure of business' though a number  of  LabourAppellate Tribunals awarded compensation to(1) (1950] 2 L.L.J. 1281.  (3) [1954] 2	 249.(2)  [1953] L.A.C 563.(4) [1956] S  872,137workmen on closure of business as an equitable relief for  avariety	 of  reasons.  It is reasonable to  assume  that  inenacting s. 25F, the legislature standardised the payment ofcompensation  to  workmen  retrenched  in  the,	 normal	  orordinary  sense in an existing or Continuing  industry;	 thelegislature did away with the perplexing variety of  factorsfor  determining  the appropriate relief in such  cases	 andadopted a simple yard stick of the length of service of	 theretrenched  workmen.   If the intention of  the	 legislature'was  to  give	statutory effect to  those  decisions  whichawarded	 compensation  on  real and  bona  fide	 closure  ofbusiness,  the	legislature would have said  so	 instead  ofbeing  content by merely adding a definition  clause,  everyrequirement of which is fulfilled by the ordinary,  acceptedmeaning of the word 'retrenchment'.We  turn now to the second argument.  We have said  that  s.25FF was inserted in 1956 by amending Act XLI of 1956, whichcame into force on September 4,1956.  Before that date,	 thetwo decisions under appeal had been given by the Bombay HighCourt  as  also a further decision in The  Hospital  MazdoorSabha  v. The State of Bombay(1) where it was held that	 thefailure	 to  comply  with  the	condition  for	payment	  ofcompensation to an employee at the time of his	retrenchmentunder  s. 25F (b) of the Act gave the employee the right  tochallenge his retrenchment and to contend that his  serviceswere not legally and effectively terminated.  Faced with thesituation  created  by	those  decisions,  the	 legislaturestepped	 in and enacted s. 25FF.  That section is  in  theseterms:Notwithstanding	 anything  contained  in  section  25F,	  noworkman shall be entitled to compensation under that sectionby reason merely of the fact that there has been a change ofemployers  in any case where the ownership or management  ofthe  undertaking  in  which he is  employed  is	 transferredwhether	 by agreement or by operation of law, from  one	 em-ployer to another:Provided that(1)  (1956) 58 Bom.  L.R. 769.18138(a)the	service of the workman has not been  interrupted  byreason of the transfer;(b)  the  terms and conditions of service applicable to	 theworkman	 after	such  transfer	are  not  in  any  way	lessfavourable  to	the  workman than those	 applicable  to	 himimmediately before the transfer; and(c)  the employer to whom the ownership or management of theundertaking  is	 so transferred is, under the terms  of	 thetransfer or otherwise, legally liable to pay to the workman,in the event of his retrenchment, compensation on the  basisthat his service has been continuous and has not been inter-rupted by the transfer."The section is not retrospective and does not in terms applyto any of the two cases before us. -But the question is-whatlight  does it throw on the meaning of s. 25F?	The  learnedAttorney-General  has  placed  great reliance  on  the	non-obstante  clause  with	which the section  begins,  and	 hascontended  that	 it  shows by necessary	 intendment  that  aworkman	 whose	service has been terminated by reason  of  achange	of employers on account of a change of ownership  ormanagement  will  be entitled to  retrenchment	compensationunder  s.  25F unless the conditions (a), (b) and  (c)	laiddown  in  s.  25FF are fulfilled.  This,  according  to	 thelearned Attorney-General, is parliamentary exposition of thetrue meaning of retrenchment in the definition clause and ins.  25F.   At first sight there appears to  be	considerableforce  in this argument, and the  learned  Attorney-General,has  cited English and American decisions of high  authorityin  support of his contention: Attorney General v.  Clarkson(1)  ; Ormond Investment Co.  Ltd. v. Betts (2);  George  H.Cope v. Janetcope(3)	 Great	Northern  Railway Co. v.  United  States  ofAmerica(4).   In considering the effect of s. 25FF  we	musttake  note of the circumstances in which it was inserted  inthe Act.  The situation was that any transfer or closure  ofbusiness and any change of(1)[1900] 1 Q.B. 156.(2)[1928] A.C. 143.(3)[1891] 137 U.S. 682, 688.(4)[1941] 315 U.S. 262,139employer or management was judicially held to give rise to aclaim for retrenchment compensation, with consequences whichmight  result  in  a  complete	industrial  deadlock.	 Thelegislature could not declare the decisions to be incorrect,but  could partially supersede their effect by an  amendmentof  the law.  These were the circumstances in which s.	25FFwas  enacted.	We  agree  with	 learned  counsel  for	 theappellants  that the aim or object of the enactment  was  tosupersede  partially  the effect of the	 aforesaid  judicialdecisions,  at	least with regard to the  urgent  matter  ofchange of ownership or management of a business	 undertakingwhich	is  of	quite  frequent	 occurrence,   rather	thanparliamentary  exposition  of  the  pre-existing  law;	 thegeneral question of closure of business, of a lesser  degreeof  urgency,  was  naturally  left  to	be  dealt  with,  ifnecessary,  after the appeals had been disposed of.  We	 arefortified  in this view by an examination of the  provisionsof  the	 Industrial Disputes  (Amendment  and  MiscellaneousProvisions) Act, 1956.	Be it noted that this Act was passedon  August  28,	 1956,-only  about  seven  days	 before	 theenactment of s. 25FF.  Section 29 of the Industrial Disputes(Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1956,  insertsnew schedules to the Act, and item 10 of the Third  Schedule(Matters  within the jurisdiction of  Industrial  Tribunals)is: " Retrenchment of workmen and closure of establishment";in  the	 Fourth	 Schedule,  item  10  is:  "Rationalisation,standardisation	 or improvement of plant or technique  whichis  likely to lead to retrenchment of workmen." It  is	truethat  these new Schedules have not yet come into force,	 butthe  wording of the items mentioned therein shows  that	 thelegislature   clearly	envisaged  a   distinction   betweenretrenchment  and closure and retrenchment did	not  includeclosure	 of business; item 10 of the Fourth Schedule  almostclinches  the  issue, because it shows how  retrenchment  ofsurplus	 labour may occur in a running industry.  If we	 areto choose between the two amending Acts of 1956 on the pointof parliamentary exposition, we unhesitatingly hold that theIndustrial Disputes (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions)Act, 1956140(Act  XXXVI of 1956) is more in the nature of  parliamentaryexposition  than  the Industrial Disputes  (Amendment)	Act,1956 (Act XLI of 1956) which merely supersedes the effect ofcertain	 judicial  decisions.	We are	aware  that  on	 thenarrower  interpretation  of the definition  clause  on	 thebasis	 of   the   ordinary,	accepted   connotation	  ofretrenchment,, s. 25F will apply to a continuing or  runningbusiness  only and s. 25FF will become largely	unnecessary.We   do	 not  think  that  consideration  need	 cause	 anydifficulty; the judicial decisions on the basis of which  s.25FF  was  enacted  being held to be  erroneous	 by  us,  nohardship  is  caused  if s. 25FF  is  rendered	superfluous,because its aim is served by the correct interpretation	 nowgiven  of the definition clause and of the provisions of  s.25F,  both of which are on that interpretation brought	intoharmony with the rest of the Act.A  few	words more about the authorities relied	 on  by	 thelearned	 Attorney-General:  the	 American  decisions  merelyenunciate  the	general	 principle that "  several  Acts  ofCongress,  dealing as they do with the same  subject-matter,should be construed not only as expressing the intention  ofCongress at the dates the several Acts were passed, but	 thelater	Acts   should  also  be	 regarded   as	 legislativeinterpretations of the prior ones." This general rule is notan  inflexible	rule, and as stated in	the  Great  NorthernRailway	 Co.  v. United States of America(1),  "we  are	 notlimited to the lifeless words of the statute and formalisticcanons	of  construction  in our search	 of  the  intent  ofCongress  (Parliament  in  our case)  and  in  construing  astatute, we may with propriety. recur to the history of	 thetimes  when it was passed." That history  shows	 indubitablythe aim and purpose of the enactment of s.   25FF.  As	LordAtkinson pointed out in his speech in	Ormond	  InvestmentCo. Limited v. Betts (2), " an Act of	Parliament does	 notalter  the law by merely betraying an erroneous	 opinion  ofit."   Legislation  founded  on	 a  mistaken  or   erroneousassumption  has not the effect of making that the law  whichthe  legislature had erroneously assumed to be so.   In	 thecases before us,(1)  [1942] 315 U.S. 262, 273.94		 (2) [1928] A.C. 143, 164.141the  legislature  proceeded  on the basis  of  the  judicialdecisions  then available to it, and on that  basis  enacteds.25FF.	 We  do	 not think that	 the  general  principle  ofparliamentary exposition or subsequent legislation as  anaid to construction of prior Acts can be called in  aid	 forconstruing the definition clause and s. 25F of the Act.For 'the reasons given above, we hold, contrary to the	viewexpressed  by  the Bombay High Court, that  retrenchment  asdefined	 in  s. 2 (oo) and as used in s. 25F  has  no  widermeaning than the ordinary, accepted connotation of the word:it  means  the discharge of surplus labour or staff  by	 theemployer  for  any reason whatsoever, otherwise	 than  as  apunishment inflicted by way of disciplinary action, and.  ithas  no application where the services of all  workmen	havebeen  terminated  by the employer on a real  and  bona	fideclosure of business as in the case of Shri Dinesh Mills Ltd.or where the services of all workmen have been terminated bythe employer on the business or undertaking being taken overby  another  employer  in circumstances like  those  of	 theRailway Company.  Mr. Mehta, appearing for respondents	Nos.4  and	5 in Civil Appeal No. 105 of 1956, tried to  make  adistinction between transfer of ownership with	continuationof  employment (which according to him did not	come  withinthe  definition)  and termination of service on	 closure  ofbusiness.   There is in fact a distinction between  transferof  business  and  closure of business; but so	far  as	 thedefinition  clause  is	concerned, both stand  on  the	samefooting	 if  they  involve termination	of  service  of	 theworkmen by the employer for any reason whatsoever, otherwisethan as a punishment by way of disciplinary action.  On	 ourinterpretation, in no case is there any retrenchment, unlessthere  is  discharge,  of  surplus  labour  or	staff  in  acontinuing or running industry. We  have so far dealt with the question of construction  ofthe  definition clause and s. 25F of the Act.  On behalf  ofthe appellants a further question as to tile  constitutionalvalidity  of s. 25F has been raised.  The Argument  on	thatquestion has proceeded from two142points	of view: one of which is based on the point of	viewthat retrenchment includes termination of service on closureof  business and the other even in respect of a	 running  orcontinuing  business.  Under Art. 19 (1), sub-cls.  (f)	 and(g),  of  the Constitution, all citizens have the  right  toacquire,  hold and dispose of property and to  practise	 anyprofession,  or	 to  carry  on	any  occupation,  trade	  orbusiness.   Under cls. (5) and (6) of the said Article,	 theright is, inter alia, subject to reasonable restrictions  inthe interests of the general public.  The right to carry  ona business, it is contended, has three facets-(a) the  rightto  start a business, (b) the right to continue	 a  businessand  (c) the right to close a business.	 Section 25F of	 theAct,  it is argued, imposes a restriction on that right,  ifthe section is so widely interpreted as to include a closureof  business.	The restriction, it is submitted, is  not  areasonable  restriction	 in  the interests  of	the  generalpublic,	 because (a) it is unrelated to the capacity of	 theemployer  to  pay  and (b) unrelated to	 the  needs  of	 theemployee.   From  the other point of view, the	argument  isthat even in respect of a running or continuing industry, s.25F imposes an unreasonable restriction.   Reasonableness,itis submitted, has to be considered with regard to the objectof the legislation and if the direct and immediate object ofs. 25F is relief against involuntary unemployment, then	 therestriction  imposed is excessive, because a  provision	 forsuch  relief  unrelated to the period  of  unemployment	 andother  relevant factors is over-simplification of a  complexproblem.   Such	 over-simplification, it is  stated,  itselfamounts to an unreasonable restriction.On the construction which we have adopted of the  definitionclause and of s. 25F of the Act, we are relieved of the taskof  making  any final pronouncement on	this  constitutionalquestion.  On our construction, s. 25F has no application toa  closed or dead industry and the constitutional  argumentsbased on a different construction need not be considered  inthese  appeals.	 So far as a running or continuing  industryis  concerned,	an obvious answer may be  that	unemploymentrelief	is not the only purpose or object of s.25F. We	havepointed out143earlier that it is reasonable to assume that standardisationof   retrenchment  compensation	 and  doing  away   with   aperplexing  variety  of factors	 for  granting	retrenchmentcompensation  may  well have been the purposes	of  a.	25F,though	the basic consideration must have been the  grantingof  unemployment  relief.   However,  on  our  view  of	 theconstruction of s. 25F, no compensation need be paid by	 theappellants in the two appeals.	It is unnecessary  thereforeto decide whether, in other cases of a different  character,s. 25F imposes a reasonable restriction or not.In  the result, we must allow the two appeals and set  asidethe decisions of the High Court of Bombay in the two  cases.We  hold  that	the appellants in the two  appeals  are	 notliable	to pay any compensation under s. 25F of the  Act  totheir  erstwhile workmen who were not retrenched within	 themeaning	 of  that  expression  in  that	 section.   In	 thecircumstances  of  these two cases, the	 parties  must	beartheir own costs throughout.Appeals allowed.