PETITIONER:CENTRAL PROVINCES TRANSPORT SERVICES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAGHUNATH GOPAL PATWARDHAN.DATE OF JUDGMENT:06/11/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  104		  1956 SCR  956ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Dismissal  of  Employee  for  misconductCriminal prosecution-Acquittal-Application for reinstatementand compensation-Maintainability-Dismissed Employee, Meaningof  Dispute  between employer and  an  individual  employee-Whether	 an industrial dispute-Central Provinces  and  BerarIndustrial  Disputes Settlement Act, 1947 (C.  P. and  BerarXXIII  of 1947), ss. 2(10), (12) and 16-Industrial  DisputesAct (XIV of 1947), s. 2(k).HEADNOTE:In June, 1950, goods belonging to the appellant company werestolen	and as the result of an enquiry the  respondent	 wasdismissed on the ground of gross negligence and	 misconduct.He was prosecuted on a charge of theft but was acquitted  inMarch, 1952, and thereupon he made an application before theLabour Commissioner957for  reinstatement  and compensation under s. 16(2)  of	 theCentral	 Provinces and Barar Industrial Disputes  SettlementAct,  1947.   It was contended for the	appellant  that	 theapplication was not main tainable because (1) the respondentwas  not an employee on the date of the application,  havingbeen dismissed long prior thereto and (2) his dispute was anindividual and not an industrial disputeHeld,  (1) that the definition of "employee" in s. 2(10)  ofthe  Act includes one who has been dismissed and has  ceasedto be in service, and that the inclusive clause therein	 wasinserted ex abundanti cautela to repel a possible contentionthat  employees	 discharged under ss. 31 and 32 of  the	 Actwould  not  fall  with	Ins. 2(10) and	cannot	be  read  asimporting  an  intention  generally  to	 exclude   dismissedemployees from that definition.Western India Automobile Association v. Industrial  TribunalBombay ([1949] F.C.R. 321), relied on.(2)  that a dispute between an employer and an employee	 whohas  been dismissed and who makes a claim for  reinstatementand compensation, would be an industrial dispute within	 themeaning	 of  s.	 2(12) of the Act, and	s.  16	enables	 theemployee  to enforce his individual rights against an  orderof dismissal, discharge, removal or suspension.Quaere,	 whether a dispute simpliciter between	an  employerand a workman would be an industrial dispute within s.	2(k)of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947).JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No 320 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober	 19, 1954 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of  Indiaat Bombay in Appeal No. 76 of 1954.H.   J.	 Umrigar, E. J. Muharir and Rameshwar Nath, for	 theappellant.S.   W. Dhabe and R. A. Govind, for the respondent.1956.	November 6. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA   AYYAR  J.-The  Central   Provinces   TransportServices Ltd., Nagpur, was, at the material dates, a  publiclimited	 company,  and	the respondent	was  employed  as  amechanic  therein.   In June 1950, goods  belonging  to	 theCompany were stolen,958and suspicion fell on the respondent.  There was an  enquiryinto the matter, and that resulted in his dismissal on	June28, 1950, on the ground of gross negligence and	 misconduct.He was then prosecuted on a charge of theft, but that  endedin  his acquittal on March 3, 1952.  Thereafter, be  appliedto the Company to be reinstated, and failing to get redress,filed  on October 1, 1952, an application before the  LabourCommissioner  under section 16(2) of the  Central  Provincesand Berar Industrial Disputes Settlement Act XXIII of  1947,hereinafter  referred to as the Act, for  reinstatement	 andcompensation.  The Company resisted the-claim on the ground,inter alia, that as the applicant had been dismissed on June28, 1950, he was not an employee on the date of the applica-tion,  that  accordingly there was  no	"industrial  disputetouching the dismissal of an employee" as required by s. 16,sub-ss.	 (1) and (2) of the Act, and that,  in	consequence,the  proceedings under that section were  incompetent.	 TheAssistant  Labour Commissioner, before whom the matter	cameup  for hearing, agreed with this contention, and  dismissedthe  application.   The	 respondent  preferred	a   revisionagainst this order to the Provincial Industrial Court ,undera.  16(5)  of the Act, and by its order	 dated	February  5,1954,  that  Court  held that a dismissed  employee  was  anemployee  as defined in s. 2(10) of the Act, that a  disputeby  such  an employee was an industrial	 dispute  within  s.2(12)  of the Act,. and that the application under s.  16(2)of  the Act was therefore maintainable.	 In the result,	 theorder of dismissal was set aside and the matter remanded forenquiry	 on  the merits.  Against that	order,	the  Companyappealed  to  the Labour Appellate Tribunal,  which  by	 itsorder  dated October 19, 1954, affirmed the decision of	 theProvincial Industrial Court, and dismissed the appeal.	 TheCompany has preferred the present appeal against this  orderunder  Art.  136.   Pending the appeal to  this	 Court,	 theCompany went into liquidation and has been taken over by theState of Madhya Pradesh, and is now being run under the nameof Central Provinces Transport Services (under959Government  ownership), Nagpur.	 On the application  of	 therespondent, the record has been suitably amended.The  point  for	 decision  in  this  appeal  is	 whether  anapplication   for  reinstatement  and  compensation   by   adismissed  employee is maintainable under s. 16 of the	Act.That section, so far as is material to the Present question,runs as follows:"(1) Where the State Government by notification so  directs,the  Labour  Commissioner  shall have  power  to  decide  anindustrial   dispute  touching	the  dismissal,	  discharge,removal or suspension of an employee working in any industryin  general or in any local area as may be specified in	 thenotification."(2)  Any  employee,  working in an industry  to  which	 thenotification  under sub-section (1) applied may	 within	 sixmonths	from the date of such dismissal, discharge,  removalor   suspension,  apply	 to  the  Labour  Commissioner	 forreinstatement  and  payment  of	 compensation  for  loss  ofwages".The argument of Mr. Umrigar for the Appellant is  that it isa   condition  prerequisite  to	 the  entertainment  of	  anapplication for reinstatement under this section that  thereshould be an industrial dispute touching the dismissal of anemployee, that there was none such in this case, because therespondent   was  not  an  employee  on	 the  date  of	 theapplication,  having been dismissed long prior	thereto	 andfurther	 because  his dispute was an individual and  not  anindustrial dispute.It will be convenient at this stage to refer to the relevantprovisions of the Act, as they stood on the material  dates.Section 2(10) defines an employee as follows:"employee" - means any person employed by an employer to  doany  skilled  or  unskilled  manual  or	 clerical  work	 forcontract  or hire or reward in any industry and includes  anemployee discharged on account of any dispute relating to  achange	in respect of which a notice is given under  section31  or	32 whether before or after the	discharge".     Section 2(12) defines "industrial dispute" as meaning960"any  dispute  or difference connected	with  an  industrialmatter	arising	 between employer and  employee	 or  betweenemployers  or  employees".   Under  s.	2(13),	 "industrialmatter"	 means	"any matter relating to	 work,	pay,  wages,reward, hours, privileges, rights or duties of employers  oremployees,  or the mode, terms and conditions of  employmentor  refusal to employ and includes questions  pertaining  to(a)  the relationship between employer and employee,  or  tothe dismissal or non-employment of any person....')It  is not disputed that a question of reinstatement  is  anindustrial  matter as defined in s. 2(13) of the  Act.	 Thecontroversy  relates  to  the  question	 whether  it  is  anindustrial  dispute as defined in s. 2(12) of the  Act'	 Thecontention of the appellant is that it does not fall  withinthat  definition., because the further condition  prescribedby s. 2(12) that it must be between an employer and employeeis  not satisfied.  It was argued by Mr. Umrigar  that	whenthe   respondent  was  dismissed  on  June  28,	 1950,	 hisemployment came to an end, and that he could not  thereafterbe   termed  an	 employee,  as	that  word   is	  ordinarilyunderstood, that it could not have been the intention of thelegislature to include in the definition of an employee eventhose  who had ceased to be in service., as otherwise  therewas  no	 need  for the further provision in  s.	 2(10)	thatdischarged  employees would in certain cases  be  employees;and  that,  in	any  event, the	 inclusive  portion  of	 thedefinition  would,  on	the principle  Expressio  unius	 estexclusive  alterius,  operate to  exclude  all	exemployees,other than those mentioned therein.The question whether a dismissed employee is an employee  asdefined	 in  s.	 2(10)	of  the	 Act  must  be	held  to  bepractically  concluded by the decision of the Federal  Courtin  Western  India  Automobile	Association  v.	  IndustrialTribunal, Bombay(1).  There, the point for determination waswhether a claim for reinstatement by a dismissed workman wasan  industrial	dispute	 as  defined  in  s.  2(k)  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act XIV of 1947.  It was held that	 thedefinition in s. 2(k) including as it did, all disputes or(1)  [1919] F.C.R. 321.961differences in connection with employment or  non-employmentof  a  person was sufficiently wide to include a  claim	 forreinstatement  by  a  dismissed workman.   Counsel  for	 theappellant sought to distinguish that decision on the  groundfirstly, that it was given on a. statute different from whatwe are concerned with in this appeal, and secondly, that thereference there, included other items of dispute, which	 un-doubtedly   fell  within  the  Act,  and  the  question	  ofreinstatement  took its complexion from those items.  We  donot see any force in. either of these contentions.   Section2(12)  and  s. 2(13) of the Act are  substantially  in	parimateria	 with s. 2(k) of Act XIV of 1947, and the  ratio  ofthe  decision  in Western India	 Automobile  Association  v.Industrial   Tribunal,	Bombay	(supra)	 will  be  as	muchapplicable  to the one enactment as to the other., Nor	doesit  make  any difference that there were  comprised  in	 thereference other items which fell within the definition unders. 2(k), because if the Government had no jurisdiction underthe Act to refer the question of reinstatement of  dismissedemployee  for  adjudication,' then the to  that	 extent,  betreated	 as  a	nullity,reference  must,  and  it  would  beimmaterial that it was intravires as regards the other itemsof dispute.We  are	 also  unable to accede to  the	 contention  of	 theappellant that the inclusive clause in s. 2(10) of the	Act,is  an	indication that the legislature did  not  intend  toinclude within that definition those who had ceased to be inservice.   In  our  opinion, that  clause  Was	inserted  exabuNdanti  cautela  to	repel  a  possible  contention	thatemployees  discharged under ss. 31 and 32 of the  Act  wouldnot  fall within S. 2 (10), and cannot be read as  importingan  intention generally to exclude dismissed employees	fromthat  definition.   On	the other hand, s.  16	of  the	 Actexpressly provides for relief being granted to dismissed em-ployees by way of 'reinstatement and compensation, and	thatprovision must become useless and inoperative, if we are  toadopt  the construction which the appellant seeks to put  onthe definition of employee in s. 2(10).	 We must accordinglybold agreeing with125962the  decision  in Western India	 Automobile  Association  V.Industrial Tribunal, Bombay  (supra) that the definition  of"employee"  in	the  Act  would include	 one  who  has	beendismissed and the respondent cannot be denied relief only byreason	of  the fact that he was iiot in employment  on	 thedate of the application.It was next contended that even assuming that the respondentwas  an "employee" as defined in s. 2 (10) of the  Act,	 hisdimissal  could not be held to be an industrial	 dispute  asdefined	 in s. 2(12), because that term properly meant	thatthe dispute was one between employer on the one hand and theindustry represented by its workmen as a class on the other,and  that  a  dispute  between the  employer  and  a  singleemployee would be an individual dispute and    would thereforebe  outside  the  purview of a. 2(12).	 It  was  argued  insupport	 of  this contention that the object of	 all  tabourlegislation  was not so much to deal with individual  rightsof  workmen,  for  the enforcement of  which  there  was  anappropriate  forum in the ordinary courts of the land as  toregulate  the relation between capital and labour,  treatingthem  as distinct entities, so that public peace  and  ordermight not be disturbed and production might not suffer,	 andfor that end, to recognise the right of labour to speak	 andact as a body for the protection of its common interests andto  provide  a machinery for speedy settlement	of  disputeswhich that body might raise; and that it could not have beenthe   intention	  of  the  legislature,	 where	 the   aboveconsiderations did not operate, to interfere with the normalrelations between employer and employee under the law and toprovide an additional forum to the employee to vindicate hisrights.	  Reliance was placed in support of this  contentionon  decisions of the Madras, Calcutta and Patna High  Courtsand of Industrial Tribunals.The  question  whether a dispute by  an	 individual  workmanwould  be an industrial dispute as defined i s. 2(k) of	 theAct XIV of 1947, has evoked considerable conflict of opinionboth  in  the High Courts and in Industrial  Tribunals,	 andthree  different  views have been expressed thereon:  (I)  Adispute which concerns963only the rights of individual workers, cannot be held to  bean  industrial dispute.	 That was the opinion  expressed  inKandan	 Textiles   v.	 Industrial   Tribunal(1).    There,Rajamannar  C. J. observed that though the language  of	 thedefinition  in	s. 2(k) was wide enough to  include  such  adispute,  the provisions of S. 18 suggested  that  somethingmore  than  an individual dispute between a worker  and	 theemployer  was  meant by an industrial  dispute.	  The  otherlearned	 Judge, Mack J., was more emphatic in  his  opinion,and  observed that the Act was "never intended to provide  amachinery  for redress by a dismissed workman".	 It  became,however, unnecessary to decide the point, as the court	cameto the conclusion that the reference it self was bad for thereason	that there was no material on which  the  Governmentcould  be  satisfied that there was a  dispute.	  The  viewsexpressed in Kandan Textiles v. Industrial Tribunal  (supra)were  approved	in Manager, United Commercial Bank  Ltd.  V.Commissioner of Labour(2); but here again, the	observationswere  obiter, as the point for decision was whether a  rightof  appeal  conferred  by  s. 41 of  the  Madras  Shops	 andEstablishments	 Act  XXXVI  of	 1947  was  taken  away	  byimplication  by	 Act XIV of 1947.   The	 question,  however,arose  directly	 for  decision	in J.  Chowdhury  v.  M.  C.Banerjee(3), in which the order of the Government  referringthe dispute of a dismissed employee to the adjudication of aTribunal  was  attacked as incompetent, and it was  held  byMitter J., following the observations in Kandan Textiles  V.Industrial Tribunal (supra) that the dispute in question wasnot  an industrial dispute, and that the reference  was,  inconsequence, bad.(11)A dispute between an employer and a single employee	 canbe  an industrial dispute as defined in s. 2(k).   That	 wasthe   decision	in  Newspapers	Ltd.,  Allahabad  v.   StateIndustrial Tribunal, U.P. (i).	In that case a reference  ofa  dispute  by	a dismissed employee and the  award  of	 theTribunal passed on that refer-(1)  [1949] 2 M.L.J. 789: A.I.R. 1951 Had. 611.(2) A.I.R. 1951 Mad. 141.    (8) [1951] 55 C.W.N. 256.(4) A.I.R. 1954 All. 516,964ence were attacked as bad on the ground that the dispute  inquestion was not an industrial dispute within s. 2(k) of ActXIV  of	 1947,	and  it was held by  Bhargava  J.,  that  anindustrial  dispute  could come into existence even  if	 theparties thereto were only the employer and a single employeeand  that the reference and the award were, in	consequence,valid.	A similar decision was given by a Full Bench of	 theLabour	Appellate Tribunal in Swadeshi Cotton Mills  CompanyLtd. v. Their Workmen(1).(III)	  A  dispute  between  an  employer  and  a   singleemployee cannot per se be an industrial dispute, but it	 maybecome	one  if it is taken up by the Union or a  number  ofworkmen.  That was held by Bose J., in Bilash Chandra  Mitrav.  Balmer Lawrie & Co.(2), by Ramaswami and  Sarjoo  ProsadJJ.,  in  New  India Assurance	Co.  v.	 Central  GovernmentIndustrial  Tribunal(3)	 and  by Balakrishna  Ayyar  J.,  inLakshmi,  Talkies, Madras v. Munuswami and others(4) and  bythe Industrial Tribunals in Gordon Woodroffe & Co. (Madras).Ltd.  v.   Appa	 Rao(5) and Lynus &  Co.  v.  Hemanta  KumarSamanta(6).The  preponderance of judicial opinion is clearly in  favourof  the last of the three views stated above, and  there  isconsiderable  reason  behind it.  Notwithstanding  that	 the-language  of  s.  2(k) is wide enough to  cover  a  disputebetween an employer and a single employee, the scheme of theIndustrial Disputes Act does appear to contemplate that	 themachinery  provided  therein  should be set  in	 motion,  tosettle only disputes which involve the rights of workmen  asa class and that a dispute touching the individual rights ofa  workman  was	 not  intended	to  be	the  subject  of  anadjudication under the Act, when the same bad not been takenup  by the Union or a number of workmen.  If that  were	 thecorrect	 position, the respondent was not entitled to  applyunder s. 16(2) of the Act as the workmen in the industry hadnot adopted his dispute as their own and chosen to treat  itas(1)  [1953] 1 L.L.J. 757.(3)  A.I.R. 1953 Patna 321.(5)  [1955] 2 L.L J. 541.(2)  A.I.R. 1953 Cal. 613.(4)  [1955] 2 L.L.J. 477.(6)  [1956] 2 L.L.J. 89.965their'	casus  belli  with the Company.	 But  then,  we	 aredirectly  concerned in this appeal not with  the  IndustrialDisputes Act XIV of 1947 but with the Central Provinces	 andBerar Industrial Disputes Settlement Act XXIII of 1947,	 andin  the view which we take of the rights of  the  respondentunder  that  statute, there is no Deed to  express  a  finalopinion	 on  the  question  whether  a	dispute	 simpliciterbetween	 an  employer and a workman would be  an  industrialdispute within 9. 2(k) of Act XIV of 1947. Now,  the Central Provinces and Berar	Industrial  DisputesSettlement Act XXIII of 1947 with which we are concerned, isnot  in	 pari  materia with Act XIV of 1947.   It  no  doubtcovers	the  ground  occupied  by  that	 Act,  and  containsprovisions  relating to arbitration,  adjudication,  awards,strikes and lock-outs.	But it contains more.  It enacts  inCh.   IV  provisions  which are	 intended  to  regulate	 thecontract  of  employment  between employer  and	 workmen,  asubject	 which	is covered by a distinct  piece	 of  Centrallegislation, Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act  XXof  1946.  The object of that Act was, as appears  from	 thepreamble  thereto,  "to	 require  employers  in	  industrialestablishments	formally to define conditions of  employmentunder  them", whereas the object of the Industrial  DisputesAct  XIV  of 1947 is, as set out in its preamble,  "to	makeprovision   for	    the	 investigation	and   settlement   ofindustrial disputes and for certain other purposes".   Thus,even though the two enactments are pieces of what is  termedlabour	legislation,  their  objects and  their	 vision	 aredifferent.   While  Act	 XIV  of 1947  may  be	said  to  beprimarily  concerned with disputes of labour as a class	 ActXX of 1946 is directed to getting the rights of an  employeeunder a contract defined.  Now, as the Central Provinces andBerar  Industrial  Disputes  Settlement Act  XXIII  of	1947covers	the ground occupied by both Act XX of 1946  and	 ActXIV of 1947, it would be proper to interpret the  expression"industrial  dispute" therein in a sense wider than what  itbears  in Act XIV of 1947, so as to cover not only  disputesof workmen as a class but also their individual disputes.966And  this  view	 receives considerable	support	 from  otherprovisions  of	the  Act.  Section Al  enacts  that  an	 ap-plication  under  that	section can be	made  either  by  anemployer or employee-concerned or by a representative of theemployees concerned.  Section 2(24) defines  "representativeof employees" as meaning a union or where there is no union,persons elected by the employees not exceeding five.   Thus,there is a clear recognition of the rights of an  individualemployee as distinguished from a class of employees, to movefor  redress.	It is argued by Mr. Umrigar  that  this	 re-cognition  is  only  for the purpose of s. 41  and  that  noinference  can	be drawn therefrom that the employee  has  asimilar	 right to apply under s. 16(2).	 But the  importanceof s. 41 consists in this that it indicates that the Act hasin  contemplation  the enforcement-of individual  rights  ofworkmen also.  Then we have s.	   53,	  which	  runs	  asfollows:"Save  with  the  permission of the  authority	holding	 anyproceeding  under this Act, no employee shall be allowed  toappear in such proceeding except -through the representativeof employees:Provided  that where only a single employee is concerned  hemay appear personally".,This  section  again recognises the rights of  employees  toagitate their individual rights under the provisions of	 theAct.   Section 16 is intended, in our opinion, to enable  anemployee  to enforce his individual rights when there is  anorder of dismissal, discharge, removal or suspension, and inthe  context,  "industrial dispute" must be  interpreted  asincluding  the claim of an employee who has been  dismissed,for reinstatement and compensation.The  view  taken  by the Industrial  Court  and	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal as to the meaning of "industrial dispute"in  the	 Central  Provinces and	 Berar	Industrial  DisputesSettlement Apt XXIII of 1947" is therefore correct, and thisappeal must be dismissed with costs.					Appeal dismissed.APPENDIXReference  to the memory of late Dr. Bijan Kumar  Mukherjea,Ex-Chief Justice of India, by the Judges and members of	 theBar of the Supreme Court of India assembled at a meeting  onFebruary 23, 1956.S.   R.	 DAS,  C.J.-Mr. Attorney-General we  have  met	heretoday under the shadow of death to mourn the passing away ofone who only the other day was our Chief Justice and belovedleader.	  He  had been ailing for some time but we  did	 notanticipate  that his end was so near.  Therefore,  when	 themelancholy news came suddenly over the wires, my  colleaguesand I felt a severe shook as all of you must also have done.We have assembled here today to pay our respectful homage tothe memory of our departed leader.Bijan  Kumar  Mukherjea was born on August  15'	 1891.	 Hisfather late R. D. Mukherjea was a Sanskrit' scholar.  He wasa  Vakil of the Calcutta High Court but used to practice  atHooghly.   Mukherjea had his early education at Hooghly	 andthereafter at Calcutta.	 He obtained his Master's Degree  inHistory.   In B.L. and M.L. examinations he topped the	listof successful candidates and secured University gold medals.He was Ananth Deb Research Prizeman.Bijan Kumar Mukherjea was enrolled as a Vakil o the CalcuttaHigh  Court  on	 the  Appellate Side  on  January  9,  1914.Shortly	 thereafter Sir Ashutosh Mookerjee, who had  an	 eyefor  discovering talents, offered him a lectureship  in	 theUniversity  Law	 College.   This was a	great  help  to	 thestruggling  junior and indeed, changed the whole  course  ofhis  life  and career, for the stipend, meager	as  it	was,enabled	 him  to struggle at the Bar of	 the  Calcutta	HighCourt instead of moving to Patna where a new High Court	 hadrecently been set up.His  rise at the Bar was not meteoric but was a steady	one.He   passed   through	the   hard   trial   but   momentarydisappointments	 or set backs did not dim his enthusiasm  ordishearten him.	 While practising at the Bar, he126968secured his Doctorate in Law.  His academic distinctions andstudious  habit	 stood	him in good  stead.   His  scholarlyerudition,  good  grounding  in legal  principles  and	deepinsight into human nature soon brought him to the  forefrontof the profession.  To his legal learning and forensic skillwas  added a graceful style of advocacy ,Which was  entirelyhis own.  His merit was soon recognised and in or about 1934he  was appointed the junior Government Pleader	 and  withintwo years the senior Government Pleader.True to tradition he was elevated to the High Court Bench in1936  Distinguished  as an Advocate he became greater  as  aJudge.	 His sweet temper and amiable  disposition  endearedhim  to his colleagues as well as to the members of the	 Barand particularly to the junior members.	 I am happy to	beartestimony  to his kindness, courtesy and  consideration	 forhis  colleagues for I had the privilege of sitting with	 himon the Bench of the Calcutta High Court.  In 1947 he  servedon the Boundary Commission.In  1948  Bijan Kumar Mukherjea along with Shri	 Mehr  ChandMahajan, who happily is with us, was called upon to serve asa  Judge of the Federal Court.	He readily responded to	 thecall  of duty and came all the way to New Delhi	 leaving  atCalcutta his only son to whom he had been both a father	 anda  mother.  In the midst of his work on the Bench, he  couldfind time to prepare and deliver his Tagore Law Lectures  onthe  Hindu  Law of Endowments.	On the	retirement  of	ShriMahajan	 on  December 23, 1954, Mukherjen,  became  the	 thefourth Chief Justice of this Court.He  brought with him here his profound legal scholarship,  aclear  thinking	 and rational mind and a  burning  sense  ofjustice.   The Law Reports will bear testimony to his  sounderudition,  and	 his  masterly	grasp  of  the	 fundamentalprinciples  which lie at the root of our legal system.	 Hisjudgments  had	a freshness and a compactness and  were	 notmere  collections  of precedents.  He delved deep  into	 thefoundations   of  the  law  and	 analysed   the	  underlyingprinciples with clarity and precision.	By his judgments  hemade		   969priceless contributions to our legal literature.  As a Judgehe  shed lustre on the High Court at Calcutta as well as  onthis Court.His  energy  was not confined to law only.  He	was  closelyassociated  with  the Scout movement in Bengal.	  He  was  aprofound   Sanskrit  scholar  and  earned  the	 degree	  ofSaraswati.  Perhaps he imbibed his Sanskrit scholarship fromhis  revered  father.	He became President  of	 the  BengalSanskrit Association.  He was also a Fellow of the  CalcuttaUniversity.   He was also a good student of philosophy.	  Hehad  sensitive and fine literary tastes and he could  recitefrom  memory  long passages from Tagore's works as  well  asfrom  the  works of Sanskrit and English poets.	 He  was  anessentially  religious	main  with  a  scrupulously   chastecharacter.    He  was  pure  in	 thought,  word	 and   deed.Mukherjea was loved and respected because of his deep  humansympathy, piety and the nobility of his character.  He	drewpeople	towards him and radiated a serenity on all who	cameinto  contact with him.	 I have heard more than	 one  personsay  that  on returning home after a visit to  Mukherjea  hefelt that he had returned as a better man.He  was ailing and undergoing suffering and pain  and  deathmust have brought relief and deliverance to him.  But by hispremature  retirement and death our Court and  country	havelost  an  illustrious Chief Justice, an erudite	 scholar,  asound  jurist and above all, a great gentleman and  we,	 whohad  the privilege of working with him and sharing our	joysand  sorrows  with him, have lost a brilliant  colleague,  arespected  leader and a lovable friend.	 We mourn his  deathas  a  personal loss and we pay our  respectful	 homage	 andsincere tribute of appreciation and affection to the  memoryof  the great departed soul.  May his soul rest	 in  eternalpeace.	We also offer our sincere sympathies to his son	 whois an Advocate of this Court.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney General of India.-My Lords,	 TheBar respectfully associates itself with all that has  fallenfrom my Lord the Chief Justice.970His ill health followed by his painful illness which led  tohis premature retirement made us all feel that he would	 notbe with us for long.  Yet when the news of the end came,  soendearing  was his personality and so great his kindness  toeveryone  who came it contact with him, that all of us	weredeeply touched.Rarely	has  one the privilege of appearing before  a  Judgewith such a deep knowledge of fundamental principles in	 allbranches  of  the law and an unfailing and  quick  grasp  oflegal  issues.	Whether it was a question relating to  HinduReligious  Endowments,	a  subject  in	which  he  had	madeextensive  research,  or  a  constitutional  question  or  aquestion  of the law of contract his piercing intellect	 andanalytical mind immediately perceived the points that arose,the  Counsel  had to be prepared to deal with  a  series  ofsearching  questions on all the legal aspects  which  arose.His erudition in law is writ large in the numerous judgmentsdelivered  by him scattered over the reports of	 this  Courtduring	the last six years.  His masterly exposition of	 thedoctrine  of equality before the law in Cheranjitlal's	caseand his analysis of the law of frustration of contract	witha  view	 to show that in India it had its roots not  in	 thetheory	of a term implied by the parties but in	 a  positivestatutory provision, are landmarks in the development of ourlaw of the Constitution and our law of contract.  Truly	 didJustice	 Douglas of the United States speak in his  recentlydelivered  Tagore'  Law	 Lectures of  the  march  of.  legaldoctrine from Marshall to Mukherjea.Nor  were his interests confined to the sphere of  law.	  Hewas  a	keen  student of philosophy and	 literature,  had  aprofound knowledge of Sanskrit and was deeply interested  inall  literary  and cultural problems.  He had  a  prodigiousmemory and even a few minutes with him gave one glimpses  ofmany  an  interesting event in the history and	politics  ofBengal.Great  as  a Judge and a learned scholar, he was,  I  think,even  greater as a man.	 Simple and unassuming,	 gentle	 andkind, frank and outspoken, he won the affection of all	who.came to know him.  A few months971ago,  a	 member of the Bar was brought before a	 Bench	overwhich he presided to answer a charge of misconduct which  headmitted.  Considering the question of punishment, the	lateChief  Justice asked Counsel assisting the Court whether  itwould  be  just	 to  punish  the  Advocate  with  a   year'ssuspension   when   he	had  a	family	dependent   on	 hisprofessional   earnings.    That  was	a   question   trulycharacteristic of him and showed his kindly heart.We  at the Bar voice our deep grief at the sad demise  of  agreat  and distinguished Chief Justice and extend  our	warmsympathies to his bereaved family.