PETITIONER:BHAGWANTRAO	Vs.RESPONDENT:VISHWASRAO AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/01/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1960 AIR  642		  1960 SCR  (2) 710ACT:Grant--Resumption--Patelki   huq   inam-True   nature	 andcharacter of-Inam Rules, 1859-Patel and Patwaris Law,  1900-Berar Land Revenue Code, 1928, s. 190.HEADNOTE:The question for decision in the appeal was the right of therevenue	 authorities of the State Government  concerned,  toresume certain lands known as 'patelki huq inam,' which	 layin the jagir village of Nawabag situate in the ceded area ofBerar.	 The  lands  were  granted  by	the  then  sovereignauthority by way of remuneration or emoluments for  servicesto be rendered by the patel; the grant was of ancient originand  was  recognised  as a ' service inam'  by	the  BritishGovernment.   In  the  village of Nawabag  there  were	fourfamilies  of  patels, who went by the  surnames	 of  Dongre,Rokade,	 Raut  and  Ingle, the members	of  which  held	 thepatel's	 office	 in  rotation of ten  years.   There  was  apartition  in  the  Rokade family as  result  of  which	 the'patelki  inam'	 lands were divided, and the lands  in	suitwere  allotted to the share of the appellant who never	heldthe  patel's office.  During an enquiry for the	 preparationof  the record of rights of the said jagir village,  it	 washeld  that  the	 appellant  was not  entitled  to  hold	 the'patelki  inam'	 lands which were given	 as  emoluments	 forservice to the working patel, and the Financial Commissionerfinally	 held that the person actually working as patel	 wasentitled  to receive the full emoluments of his office,	 andconfirmed  the	order that the lands in	 possession  of	 theappellant  should  be resumed and regranted to	the  workingpatel, viz., the respondent No. 1.On the question of the true nature of the patelki huq  inam,two points arose: (1) was it a grant by way of	remunerationor emoluments of the patel's office by the use of the  land,or (2) was it a grant of land to the patelki family burdenedwith service and so long as the service was performed by anymember	of  the family, the lands were	joint  family  landssubject to partition etc. among the members of the family.Held, that the 'patelki inam' in this case was in its origina  grant by way of remuneration for patelki service  by	 thesovereign authority; it was separate from and independent ofthe  jagir of Nawabag though the land lay within  the  jagirvillage.  In its true character the 'patelki inam' was	landgiven  in  lieu	 of wages or emoluments for  the  office  ofpatel;	it could not be freely alienated and the  Governmentcould resume the land.Held,  further, that where one of two or more patels of	 thevillage	 held office in turn by rotation, that did not	meanthat711the  patel ceases to be a patel when his turn was  over;  hecontinued  to  be  a patel and to enjoy	 his  emoluments  ofoffice.Held, also, that there was nothing in the Inam Rules,  1859,on the basis of which a person could claim as of right	thathe  had a share in the 'patelki inam' lands as a  member  ofthe patel's family irrespective of whether he performed	 theservice	 or  not.  A member of the patel's  family  was	 notentitled  as  of right to a share in the emoluments  of	 thepatel's	 office	 and Government had every  right  to  resume'patelki  inam' lands and regrant them to the officiator  inaccordance  with  the provisions of the Patel  and  PatwarisLaw, 1900, and s. 1900 of the Berar Land Revenue Code, 1928.Held, also, that on the finding that the lands were given byway  of	 emoluments for the patel's office, no	question  oftitle by adverse possession arose against the Government  inthe circumstances of the case.Venkata Jagannadha v. Veerabhadrayya, (1921) L.R. I.A.	224,referred to.Krishnarao  v. Nilkantha and Others, A.I.R. (1922) Nag.	 52,Mir  Subhan Ali v. Imami Begum, (1925) 21 Nag.	 L.  Reports117,  Lakhamgouda  Basavaprabhu Sardesai v.  Baswantrao	 andOthers,	 A.I.R. (1931) P.C. 157, Jaiwantrao and	 Another  v.Sahebyao,   (1933)  29	Nag.   L.  Reports  210	  and	RajeShrinivasrao  v.  Raje	Vinayakrao,  I.L.R.  [1949]  Nag.  1discussed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No, 208 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated November 27, 1951,of the former Nagpur High Court, in Second Appeal No. 169 of1947, arising out of the judgment and decree dated  February3, 1947, of the First Additional District Judge, Amraoti  inCivil  Appeal  No. 85-A of 1946, against  the  judgment	 anddecree	dated  December 20, 1945, of the Civil	Judge  FirstClass, Ellichpur, in Civil Suit No. 1 of 1943.W.   S. Barlingay and A. G. Ratnaparkhi, for the appellant.H.   J. Umrigar and Sardar Bahadur, for respondent No. 1.R.   Ganapathy	Iyer, M. P. Nathwani and R. H.	Dhebar,	 forrespondent No. 2.1960.  January 12.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS  J.-This is an appeal on a certificate  S.	  K.Da,,  J. granted. by the High Court of Nagpur  under  clause(c)712of Article 133(1) of the Constitution to the effect that thecase is a fit one for appeal to this Court.  It raises	someimportant   questions  as  to  the  right  of  the   revenueauthorities  of	 the State Government concerned,  to  resumecertain lands which are known as " patel ki huq inam " landssituate in what was	 previously known as the ceded	areaof   Berar.    The  plaintiff  Bhagwantrao   Shivaji   Patel(Bhagwantrao,  to  give	 his short name)  is  the  appellantbefore us. Vishwasrao Patel. who was defendant No. 2 in	 thesuit,  is now respondent No. 1. Originally,  the  ProvincialGovernment of the Central Provinces and Berar was  defendantNo.  1,	 and  now the State of Bombay is  respondent  No.  2before	us.   Formerly,	 the lands in suit  lay	 within	 theprovince  of  Central Provinces and Berar; later  they	fellwithin	the  State of Madhya Pradesh, and now  they  are  inBombay.The  relevant facts which have given rise to the appeal	 maynow be shortly stated.	The lands in suit were comprised  insix  survey numbers stated in paragraph one of	the  plaint.They  lay in village Nawabag, a jagir village, of  Ellichpur(now  called  Archalpur)  taluq	 of  Berar,  and  we   shallhereinafter  give some more details of that jagir.  In	thatvillage	 there were four families of Patels some members  ofwhich heldthe  Patel's  office in rotation of ten years  each.   Thesefour  families went by the surnames of Dongre, Rokade,	Rautand  Ingle.  We are concerned with the Rokade  family.	 OneShivajirao  of	that family had two sons, called  Amrit	 andBhagwant.  Bhagwant, as we know, is the appellant before us.Vishwasrao,   respondent  No.  1,  is  the  son	 of   Amrit.Shivajirao  died  sometime in 1886.  His son Amrit  died  in1920.	In 1923 there was a partition between the  appellantand respondent No. 1. The case of the appellant was that  asa result of this partition, the " patelki inam " lands weredivided and  the lands in suit were allotted to the share ofthe  appellant.	  When Shivajirao was alive,  he  worked  aspatel; so did Amritrao in his turn.  Lastly, Vishwasrao alsoworked as patel.  In 1935 a special officer was appointed byGovernment  to	prepare	 a record of  rights  of  the  jagirvillage of Nawabag.  This			    713officer	 submitted a report on which certain enquiries	weremade.	As a result of these enquiries it was held that	 theappellant was not entitled to hold the "patelki inam"  landswhich were given as emoluments of his office to the  workingpatel from the Rokade family.  It was ordered by the  DeputyCommissioner  that the lands in possession of the  appellantshould be resumed and regranted to the working patel,  viz.,respondent No. 1. The appellant appealed against this order.The  Commissioner of Berar set aside the order of  eviction,but  maintained	 the  status quo  pending  final  orders  ofGovernment.  Ultimately, on December 19, 1941, the FinancialCommissioner held that the person actually working as  patelwas  entitled to receive the full emoluments of his  office,and  revenue officers had consistently refused to admit	 anyclaims to shares in patelki emoluments.	 Accordingly, he setaside the order of the Commissioner and restored that of theDeputy	Commissioner.  Thereupon, the appellant brought	 hissuit in 1942 in which he claimed that the Government had  nojurisdiction or authority to resume and regrant the lands torespondent  No.	 1  and the orders  passed  by	the  revenueauthorities  concerned	were null and void.   The  appellantasked  for  possession and mesne profits.  By  a  subsequentamendment of the plaint, the appellant alleged that at leasttwo of the plots, 211A and 9/1A, had ceased to be "  patelkiinam  "	 lands	and were private  property  of	the  family.Therefore,  in	any view of the matter,	 Government  had  noright  to resume these two plots.  His claim with regard  tothese plots was alternatively placed on a somewhat differentfooting and we shall, in due course, consider that claim.The suit was dismissed by the trial Judge, but on appeal  bythe present appellant the learned Additional District  Judgeof  Amraoti decreed the suit.  There was a second appeal  tothe High Court of Nagpur which allowed the appeal, set asidethe  decree of the lower appellate court, and restored	thatof the trial Judge.  The High Court substantially held	that(1)  the  lands in suit were granted by the  then  sovereignauthority by way of remuneration or emoluments for91714services  to  be  rendered by the patel and  the  grant	 wasrecognised as a service inam by the British Government,	 and(2)  it	 was open to the revenue authorities to	 resume	 andregrant	 the lands in accordance with the provisions of	 thePatels	and Patwaris Law, 1900 in force in Berar and s.	 190of the Berar Land   Revenue  Code,  1928.   Thereafter,	 theappellant  applied for and obtained a certificate  from	 theHigh Court, and the present appeal has been brought pursuantto that certificate.To appreciate the points which have been urged before us  onbehalf of the appellant, it is necessary to state some	morehistorical  facts about the jagir village Nawabag and the  "patelki inam " lands comprised therein.	 The original sanadsby  which the jagir of Nawabag or the " patelki inam  "	 wascreated	 have not been produced in this case.  There  is  nodoubt, however,that both are of very ancient origin.   Berarwas  ceded  by the Nizam of Hyderabad in 1853 and  the	InamRules  for settlement of jagir and inam claims were made  in1859,  Rule 1 whereof stated inter alia that land which	 wasproved to have been held as inams, either under a fixed quitrent  or  rent-free  for a period of  40  years	 before	 thecession, was to be treated by the British Government as inampossessed under a valid title.	The promulgation of the InamRules  was followed by an inams investigation.	Ex.  P-1  isthe  copy  of  an inam entry dated August  31,	1866.	Thisdocument shows that the jagir of Nawabag was granted by	 theKings  of  Delhi to one Shah Abdul Huq originally.   It	 wassubsequently  continued and confirmed by sanads	 granted  bythe  Nizam  of Hyderabad in 1757.  The village had  a  totalarea  of about 1,846 bighas, out of which about	 262  bighaswere  held  by	patels	in lieu of their  "  huq  "  in	 theproportion of I bighas per netan (a measure of nine bighas).The  Inam Commissioner stated that the jagir had  been	heldupward&	 of 100 years before the inam enquiry and should  becontinued (except for an area of 200 big has for which therewas  no satisfactory proof) in perpetuity subject to a	quitrent  of Rs. 87-8-0.  There is an earlier document, Ex.	  P-9A, of October 24,1771,715which  shows that there was a dispute between the  jagirdarsand the patels about the latter's right to get	If  bighasof  "  patelki	inam " land per "  netan  ".  The  jagirdarsdisputed the claim of the patels and ultimately the  disputewas  submitted	to  the	 Nazim	Sahib	 of  Ellichpur.	 Thedocument contains the following recital which shows that the"  patelki inam " lands of  village Nawabag were  also	veryancient	 grants: "The Nazim, after seeing from the  previousrecords	 as to who was in enjoyment, granted  the  mukaddamiinamof	a bigha and a half from year to year as	 desired  bythe  mukaddaman.   As per the old judicial  usage,  land  iscalculated  at the rate of one and half bigha  pernetan	 andmeasured  out  from the lands of Nawabag and  the  aforesaidmukaddaman  are held to be occupants of the said  cultivatedlandIt	appears	 that out of 262 bighas of "  patelki  inamlands  in  the	village, the Rokade  family  held  about  11plots,approximately of about 50 acres.	Sometime before 1904some  of the co-sharer-jagirdars of Nawabag ali	 enated	 thejagir	lands	to  strangers.	 This  led   to	  resumptionproceedings by Government, and ultimately half of the  jagirvillage was resumed by Government in or about 1904-05.	As aresult of a detailed enquiry, survey numbers 1 to 21 and  40to  45	of the " patelki inam " lands fell  in	the  resumedportion	 and  survey numbers 22 to 39 were included  in	 thejagir	portion.   As  survey  numbers	2/IA  and  9/IA	  inpossession of the Rokade family fell in the resumed portion,they  were recorded as Khalsa and were assessed to  revenue,while the remaining survey numbers viz. 29/1, 34/3, 36/2 and37/2 continued to be in possession of the Rokade family freeof  assessment.	 There was another resumption proceeding  inor about 1917 when it was discovered that the jagirdars	 hadalienated  lands  falling in the jagir portion	also.	Thistime the lands resumed were not made Khalsa but were regran-ted  to	 the  jagirdas.	 As a result  of  this	regrant	 thejagirdars thought that they were entitled to take possessionof the "patelki inam" lands of the Rokade family also.	Thisled to some more revenue proceedings, and we come now to oneof the important716documents  in  this case, viz., a letter  dated	 August	 28,1922,  by  which sanction of Government was conveye  to	 theexclusion    from   resumption	 of   25   acres   and	  15gunthas of land in the khalsa portion of the village	andto  the	 exclusion from the land regranted to  the  jagirdarviz.  of 24 acres 30 gunthas in the inam portion of  Nawabagjagir  village".  The order made by the	 Government  furtherstated	that  the aforesaid lands would be recorded  in	 thename  of  Amrit Shivaji Patel as his " patelki huq  inam  ".Some  of the other patel families made an attempt to  get  arelease of the inam lands held by them, which had since beenresumed; but this attempt proved unsuccessful and Governmentheld  that  an	enquiry showed that with  the  exception  ofAmritrao,  no member of the old patelki families except	 DeoRao was in possession of the old "patelki inam" lands and asDeo  Rao  did not belong to a branch in which the  right  toofficiation resided, his claim could not be considered.	 Theorder  of Government in 1922, therefore, made it clear	thatthe "patelki inam" lands of Amritrao formed one. homogenous,separate  service  grant  and  were  not  dependent  on	 theresumption  of	the jagir of Nawabag.The   proceedings   of	1917-1922  were	 followed   by	 theproceedings  of	 1935-1941  which  culminated  in  a   thirdresumption  of	the " patelki inam " lands  and	 regrant  toVishwasrao  and	 to Which we have earlier  referred.   Theseproceedings bring the history of the lands in suit up to thetime when the appellant brought his suit in 1942.Now, apart from the alternative claim with regard to  surveynumbers	 2/IA  and 9/IA and the claim of  title	 by  adversepossession,  which  claims  we	shall  consider	 later,	 theprincipal question which falls for decision in this  appeal,is the true nature of these " patelki inam " lands; do	theyconstitute  a grant by way of remuneration or emoluments  ofthe patel's office by the use of the lands, as found by	 theHigh  Court,  or do they constitute a grant of land  to	 thepatelki	 family	 burdened with service and so  long  as	 theservice is performed by any member of the family, the  landsare joint family lands subject to partition      717etc. among the members of the family? Onbehalf	of  theappellant, it has been very stronglycontended before  usthat the finding of the High Court on	this point is wrong.On this part of the case learned   counsel for the appellanthas made a four-fold	 submission;   firstly,	  that	 therights which the    Rokade  family had in these	 lands	wererights of      dealing with the property as owners,  subjectto a member  of the family rendering patelki service; or  inother words, the grant was a grant of land burdened    withservice;  secondly,  the grant was made by the	jagirdar  ofvillage Nawabag and not by the sovereign     authority	 andneither the Inam Rules, nor the provisions of the Patels andPatwaris Law, 1900 applied;   thirdly, even if the aforesaidRules and provisions	 applied,   the	  appellant    stillretained his hereditary	 rights in the lands; and  fourthly,the orders of  Government  dated  August 28, 1922,  did	 notconfer any     new right nor did they deprive anybody of anysubsisting  right in respect of the " patelki inam  "  landsand Government had no right to resume the lands and  regrantthem  to  respondent  No. 1. The second	 submission  can  bedisposed of without much difficulty. We have already  statedthat the  sanads creating the jagir or the " patelki inam  "have not been produced. The earliest document we have is thekararnama of October 24, 1771. That document shows,  as	  wehave  stated earlier, that there was a dispute	between	 thejagirdars and the patels; the patels were demanding I bighasper netan as their " huq and the jagirdars were saying	thatno such " huq " was mentioned  in the sanads granted to	 thejagirdars. The dispute	was referred to the Nazim,  who	 wasthe local representative  of the then  sovereign  authority,and  the decision of the Nazim was expressed by saying	thatthe Nazim granted the inam of a bigha and a  half from	yearto year for each netan; it was also	stated that this wassupported by old judicial usage.   In our view the kararnamashows two things: first, the grant of " patelki inam " of 1-1/2 bighas per netan	 was  in its origin a grant  by	 thesovereign authority which the Nazim confirmed in  accordancewith old718judicial  usage; secondly, that the grant was from  year  toyear in lieu of patelki services and was binding on	 thejagirdars who agreed to be bound by it.	 The entry  in	 theInam Register, dated August 31, 1866	(Ex.  P-1) is to thesame effect; it shows that 262 bighas were excluded from thejagir  "  as allowed to patel in lieu of his  huq  to  1-1/2bighas",  in contradistinction to other petty inams  allowedby  the	 holders (jagirdars) themselves.  On behalf  of	 theappellant our attention has been drawn to Rules 1 and 11  ofthe Inam Rules and to Rule XV; it has been submitted that ifthe  " patelki inam " was separate from and  independent  ofthe jagir which was a class 111 inam, a separate title	deedin  the form of an inam certificate would have been  grantedin  respect of the " patelki inam " as a class IV inam.	  Itmay  be,  as the High Court points out, that the  "  patelkiinams  "  were	not separately recognised  during  the	inamenquiry, and it was then assumed as if these were  interestscarved	out of the lands granted. to the  jagirdars.   Thereis,  how.  ever,  clear evidence in the record	that  the  "patelki	 inam"	of this case was independent of	 the  jagir.Immediatly  after the first resumption	proceedings  againstthe  jagirdars in 1904-05, the position of the	patels	cameunder consideration of the revenue authorities.	 In 1906 oneMoti  of  Dongre  family was appointed	patel  by  the	Sub-divisional  officer,  Ellichpur.  In  1907  Amrit,  son	  ofShivaji,  was  appointed  patel	 in  the  Rokade  family  toofficiate  in rotation with Moti. This appointment was	madeby  the	 Deputy Commissioner.  In 1908 there was  a  disputebetween	 the jagirdars and patels and the order of the	Sub-divisional officer who decided the dispute said:"The Jagirdar says that his family appointed Patels from thewatan  family, but this is not borne out by such  papers  asexist.	 There is a petition dated 4-1-67 from the  Jagirdarrequesting  the Revenue authority of the time to  appoint  acertain	 person as Patel.  At that period then	the  Revenueauthorities and not the Jagirdar appointed the Patel.The  Patels  are village servants only and  are	 responsibleonly to the Government and not to the Jagirdar.     719The Patel family has had watandari rights for certainly	 150years or so.I am of opinion therefore that the watan  seems	 independentof the Jagir."This dispute went up to Commissioner Sly (later Sir    FrankSly) and he held that the patelki is a watan	  independentof the jagir, and he approved the proposal   for    rotationbetween Moti and Amrit. The " patelki	inams " were treatedon  the	 same basis in the resumption proceedings  of  1917-1922, and by the order dated  August  28,  1922,  Governmentexcluded the " patelki	 inam  " lands from  the  resumptionproceedings relating	 to  the jagir on the  footing	thatthey were separate  from  and independent of the jagir.	 Mr.Walker,	  then	Financial  Commissioner, said in  his  orderdated	  August 7, 1918, (Ex. ID-11):"Although the Patel holds no Inam Certificate, I  agree withthe  Commissioner that the inam resumption  procedure  whichwas necessitated by the action of the jagirdar, ought not toupset the arrangement	 concerning  the Patels,  which	 wasmade  at the suggestion of His Exalted Highness the  Nizam'sGovernment     many years ago. To give effect to this  view,it  will be necessary to reopen the enquiry as	regards	 thewhole  village-both the khalsa part and the  regranted	inampart-and to determine what fields in each    represent	 theoriginal grant of 262 bighas to the Patel    in lieu of	 hishuq.  When  that  area has been determined,  the  orders  ofresumption will have to be    modified so as to exclude it."There  is, therefore, overwhelming evidence in this case  toshow   that  the  patelki  inams  were	separate  from	 andindependent  of the jagir of Nawabag, though the  lands	 laywithin the jagir village.This  brings us to the more important question what  is	 thetrue character of the "patelki inam" lands of this case ? Onthis   point  also,  we	 think	that  there  is	 clear	 andunimpeachable evidence in support of the finding of the HighCourt. We have already referred	   to the kararnama of	1771and  the inam entry of 1866. If the grants were a  grant  ofland to the patelki720families  burdened with service, it is difficult  to  under-stand  how  there could arise a dispute	 about	remunerationbetween the jagirdars and patels and why the remuneration of1-1/2  bighas per netan should be fixed from year  to  year.In  a  revenue case of 1908 Amrit Patel had  himself  statedthat the land was given	 to   his  ancestors  in  lieu,	  ofpatelki	 huq and it should not be assessed to land  revenue.Even  in his plaint, the appellant had asserted that  the  "Patels were given certain lands out of the jagir village fortheir  working as patels and for discharging other  duties."There is another important document in this connection.	  Inthe  second  resumption proceedings of 1917  Government	 hadfirst decided to resume the jagir and regrant it to the thenJagirdar  Amerulla Khan.  In the orders passed (Ex.   ID-18)it  was	 stated that the Jagirdars would be  at	 liberty  toallow  the  working  patels  to	 hold  such  lands  as	wereconsidered  reasonable	by the Deputy Commissioner  free  ofrevenue and in lieu of mushahara (emoluments or wages).	  Itis important to note that everybody understood then that the" patelki inam " was in lieu of wages or emoluments for	 theoffice	of  patel.   These orders led  to  an  enquiry,	 andAmritrao made a statement that he was holding survey numbers26 27, 29, 34, 36 and 37 in lieu of patelki emoluments.	  Hesaid that he was even willing to hold 4 acres 17 gunthas  ofsurvey	no. 27 in lieu of his emoluments.  It  appears	thatthe Sub-divisional officer then recommended that Amrit Patelshould	be given only 4 acres 17 gunthas, as emoluments	 forhis  office.   Later, an application was made on  behalf  ofAmrit,	which  was  signed  by	his  brother,  the   presentappellant  as  his agent, in which  occurred  the  followingsignificant statements:"The  learned S.D.O. has again lost sight of the  fact	thatthe  family of the applicant has been doing the work of	 thePatel  from a very long time, that in the early days of	 theBerar  Administration  when land had no value  and  did	 notfetch  the  income it is doing now, the	 applicant  and	 hispredecessors  worked to what they would get from  the  land.Cash  had more value then than land and hence  the  Inamdarsthought721it is advisable to commute money payment into land grant.That the learned Sub-Divisional Officer has lost sight	 ofthe  fact that in the inam enquiry and the sanad granted  tothe Inamdar of the Nawabag Jahagir  in 1866, the land in thepossession of the applicant has been deducted from the	areaof the village and it isonly  the rest of the area that	 ismade over to theInamdar,  vide, Co. 5 of the sanad  viz.area of grant.This shows that in 1866 the area reserved forthe Patel was considered as a fair remuneration in kind tothe Patel for his work."These statements show clearly enough what the appellant	 andhis  brother Amrit, understood to be the character of the  "patelki inam " lands; they clearly said that the lands	weregiven in lieu ofemoluments  or remuneration.  This  viewultimatelyprevailed   and  the	earlier	  orders   weremodified  on the recommendation of Commissioner Standan	 whosaidthat  the  lands held by the patel as  "  patelki  inam"should be excluded from resumption and the patel should  beallowed	 to  hold the lands free of any payment in  lieu  ofcash remuneration for his office. Inthe	  result    werepassed the orders dated August 28,1922,	   to	 which	  areference has already been made.These  transactions   andthe statements made thereinare admissible, in the absenceof the sanads creatingthe grant, to show how the  partiesthemselves haveunderstood  and dealt with the grant  incontestedrevenue  proceedings  between	the  jagirdars	andpatels.On behalf of the appellant it has been submittedthat thereis evidence in the record to show that someof  the  patelshad alienated " patelki inam " landsand	 the  "	 patelkiinam " lands of each patel remainedwith	 him, in  spiteof the fact that the office was heldin rotation ;  thesecircumstances, it is contended,militate against the viewthat the grant was a meregrant	  of	office	   withemoluments in the shape of Inamlands.  We are unable  toaccept this contention ascorrect. The statement of  theappellant himself in a92722revenue	 case of 1937-38 (Ex.  ID-15) shows that  the  landsalienated by the other patels were resumed and regranted  tothe  jagirdar  in  the resumption  proceedings	of  1917-18.After Amritrao had succeeded in	   getting  his	 "   patelkiinam " lands excluded from resumption, the other patels alsounsuccessfully	    attempted to get their lands  released-acircumstance to which we have earlier referred.	 This  showsthat  Government  never	 accepted the position	that  the  "patelki	 inam  "  lands could be freely	 alienated;  on	 thecontrary,  the evidence in the record shows that  Governmenthad resumed such lands on more than one occasion.  As to thesecond	circumstance, it is indeed true that the office	 wasrotatory  (this	 is provided for in s. 3 of the	 Patels	 andPatwaris  Law, 1900); but each patel retained his inam	landeven  when it was not his turn to work as patel.  We do	 nothowever, consider this circumstance as establishing that thegrant  was  other than what the High Court held	 it  to	 be.Section 3 of the Patels and Patwaris Law, 1900 says in clearterms  that when there are two or more patels in a'  villageand   the  duties  can,	 in  the  opinion  of	the   DeputyCommissioner,  be  efficiently performed by one	 patel,	 theDeputy	Commissioner can direct that each patel	 shall	holdoffice	in turn by rotation for a term of not less  than  10years.	This does not mean that a patel ceases to be a patelwhen his turn is over; he continues to be a patel and enjoyshis emoluments.We propose now to examine the position Under the Inam Rules,1859, the Berar Patels and Patwaris Law, 1900 and the  BerarLand  Revenue  Code, 1928.  The argument on  behalf  of	 theappellant is that even under the Inam Rules, he is  entitledto  his	 share	in the "patelki inam" lands, so	 long  as  amember	of the family works as patel.  Learned	counsel	 forthe appellant has drawn our attention to Rules V and VI	 andhas submitted that being a service inam, the it patelki inam" would come under the fourth class mentioned in Rule 11 andwould be governed by Rule VI(2) which says:" Inams granted in lieu of lands or money stipends, commonlycalled huqs and ressums of offices, such as			   723Deshmukh, Deshpandia, and others the service of	  which	 haseither been dispensed with or otherwise discontinued,  shallbe disposed of according to clause,	of  the Rule  V,  ifthey are hereditary in their terms,	either	by   expressdeclaration of Government or by	   recognized usage. Nothingin this rule shall be	 deemed	 to apply to cash  allowanceknown as ressums    or	lawazamas granted to  Deshmukhs	 andDeshpandias    in  lieu of emoluments previously payable  tothem."That Rule refers to clause (2) of Rule V which	reads:"  If the present incumbent is a descendant of the  originalgrantee,  the  inam will be continued to  him  hereditarily,subject to the following conditions :-First-Successions limited to direct lineal heirs  andundivided brothers.Second-The inam escheats to Government on    failure of suchheirs.Third-Future alienation of the inam is prohibited.Fourth-The right of adoption to an inam is not	  recognized."The  contention before us is that under Rule VI(2)read	withRule V(2), the appellant was entitled to his share in the  "inam " as an undivided brother of  Amritrao,  Patel.  We  donot think that this contention	   is	correct.   For	 onething, Rule VI(2) applies to inams,	granted	 in lieu  oflands or money stipends, the service	of which -has eitherbeen dispensed with or otherwise   discontinued. That is notthe case here. Secondly	 clause	 (8)  of Rule  VI  makes  itclear that when the inam attached to the office is wholly orpartially in   the enjoyment of members of the family who donot  perform service, such portion of the alienated inam asmay be considered necessary for the efficient performance ofthe duties will be attached to the office    holders,	 andRule  XIV(2) says that service grants are not liable  to  bealienated by purchase or otherwise.	Rule  VIII  explainsthe term 'inam' and Rule 11 also   has	a  bearing  on	 thequestion before us. It says, so	   far as it is relevant forour purpose:"  The settlement will be made with the head member  of	 thefamily holding the office or enjoying the724inam  and who will be held alone responsible to	 Government,and  in no case will the Government interfere to compel	 theactual incumbent of an office to  make over any	 portion  ofhis regulated service grant to other branches of the family,as service grants cannot be divided according to the  ordersof   Government. "Rule  XXI(2)  says  interalia that  in	respect	 to  servicegrants,	 the decisions of the Commissioner and the  Residentrespecting  lands  held	 free by  the  village	officers  asremuneration for service, shall be considered final.From these Rules it is manifestly clear to us that there  isnothing	 in  them on the basis of which	 the  appellant	 canclaim as of right that he has a share in the "patelki inam "lands  as  a member of the patel's family,  irrespective  ofwhether he performs the service or not.The  position  under  the Patels  and  Patwaris	 Law,  1900,appears	 to  be clearer still.	Section 9 of  the  said	 Lawstates that the emoluments appertaining to the office of thepatel  or patwari shall be enjoyed solely by the person	 forthe  time being holding the office; even a substitute  shallreceive	 the  whole of the emoluments  appertaining  to	 theoffice,	 unless the Deputy Commissioner	 otherwise  directs,and if there are two or more patels in a village, the DeputyCommissioner  shall determine the proportions in which	theyshall share in the emoluments of office.  Sections 10 and  11  say	that the emoluments appertaining to  the  office  ofpatel  shall not be liable to attachment or sale, and  everyassignment   thereof  shall  be	 void.	 Under	s.  20	 thejurisdiction  of the Civil Court is barred with	 respect  toany claim by any person to any emolument appertaining to theoffice of patel.  These provisions clearly indicate that the"  patelki inam " lands are subject to orders passed by	 therevenue	 authorities  in respect of  the  matters  mentionedtherein, and no right is given to a member of the family  ofthe patel to claim a share in the emoluments.The  power  to resume lands granted on	condition  that	 theholder shall render certain services is			    725specifically referred to in s.190 of the Berar Land  RevenueCode.  We quote below the material portion of the section :"  Section  190(1)-If  alienated land has  been	 granted  oncondition  that the holder shall render certain services  orincur  expenditure for the benefit of the community  or	 anysection	 thereof,  and	the  holder  fails  to	render	suchservices or to incur such expenditure to the satisfaction ofthe  Deputy  Commissioner, or, if the holder  transfers	 theland  in such a manner that, in ther opinion of	 the  DeputyCommissioner,  the  purpose  of the grant is  likely  to  bedefeated,  the Deputy Commissioner may declare such land  tobe forfeited.(2)  Land  forfeited  under this section shall vest  in	 theCrown  for  the	 purposes  of  the  Province  free  of	 allencumbrances   and  shall  be  regranted  on  the   originalconditions made under this Law."Section	 192  says  inter alia that  no	 civil	court  shallentertain any suit to obtain a decision on any matter  whichthe  revenue  authorities  are empowered under	the  Law  todetermine,  and among the matters mentioned in the  section,is  any claim against the State relating to any property  oremoluments  appertaining  to the office	 of  any  hereditaryofficer	 or  servant.  These provisions	 also  negative	 theclaim of the appellant.We  proceed  now  to consider  certain	decisions  on  whichlearned	 counsel  for  the appellant  has  sought  to  placereliance.   We may notice here one comment made by him.	  Hehas submitted that the High Court has relied on the decisionof the Privy Council in Venkata Jagannadha v.  Veerabadrayya(1) where the question was whether the karnam service  landsenfranchised  to  a karnam, a village accountant  in  MadrasState,	were  subject  to any claim of	partition  by  othermembers of the family, and his comment is that the " patelkiinam  "	 lands in Berar stand on a  footing  different	fromkarnam	service lands in Madras and there are  decisions  inwhich  it  has been held that co-sharers have a right  to  ashare  in  service grants in Berar.  The first	decision  towhich oar attention has(1)  (1921) L.R. 48 I.A. 244.726been drawn is Krishnarao v. Nilkantha and Others (2).	Thatwas  a case of a jagir, and it was held that it	 came  underthe third class, and nothing regarding ordinary rule is thatif persons are entitled beneficially to shares in an estate,they  may  have	 a  partition.	It  was	 further  held	thatproperty  consisting of an ordinary inam village was  liableto  partition at the suit of a co-sharer except when it	 washeld  on a saranjam or other impartible tenure or where	 theterms  of the grant impose a condition upon  its  enjoyment.We  do	not think that this decision  establishes  what	 theappellant  is  seeking to establish in this case,  that	 is,that be has a share in the emoluments of the patel's office.The next decision is that of the Privy Council in Mir SubhanAli  v. Imami Begum (3) ; all that was laid down  there	 wasthat the devolution and incidents of an inam estate in Berarwere regulated by the Inam Rules, 1859, but only in  mattersnot mentioned in the sanad or certificate or other  documentevidencing the special terms of the grant in the  particularcase.	The fundamental question at issue there was  one  ofconstruction, namely, whether the beneficial interest in theInam  granted  to  a  common ancestor  of  the	parties	 andcontinued by the British Government in 1866 passed under theterms  of the grant then made to all heirs of  the  granteesaccording  to  Shia Mahomedan Law or  whether  the  interestdevolved on the male descendants only.	It was not a servicegrant,	and no question of a share in the emoluments of	 thepatel's	 office	 arose there.  In  Lakhamgouda	BasavaprabhuSardesai  v.  Baswantrao and Others (4)	 the  Privy  Councilpointed	 out the distinction between the grant of an  officeto  be remunerated by the use of land and the grant of	landburdened with service; it said that in the former case,	 theland would be prima facie resumable but not so in the lattercase, unless the terms of the grant or the circumstances  inwhich it was made established that it was resumable.(1) A.I.R. (1922) Nag. 52.     (2) (1925) 21 Nag.  L.R. 117.(3) A.I.R. (1931) P.C. 157.727In  the case of Jaiwantrao and Another v. Sahebrao (1),	 theinam certificate issued to the head of the senior branch  ofa  family of Deshmukh watandars stated that the village	 wasgranted	 "for  personal	 maintenance to	 the  claimant,	 hisdescendants and co-sharers"; Accordingly, it was held that aco-sharer was entitled to possession of his share  appearingfrom  the  inam	 statement.  In Raje  Shrinivasrao  v.	RajeVinayakrao(2) there was grant of two villages to the  great-grandfather  of the appellant and the respondent,  who	werebrothers,  and " his lineal heirs " or " his  successors  ".The  question was whether primogeniture was to be the  orderof  descent or the estate was impartible.  It was held	thatthe ordinary principles of Hindu Law were applicable and theearlier	 decision in Mir Subhan Ali v. Imami Begam  (3)	 wasreferred to.  Here again the grant was not a service  grant,and  no question of a claim of a share in the emoluments  ofoffice	fell  even  for	 consideration,	 not  to  speak	  ofdecision.We  consider  it unnecessary to multiply decisions.   It  isenough	to  state that no decision has been brought  to	 ournotice	in  which  it has been held that  a  member  of	 thepatel's	 family	 is entitled as of right to a share  in	 theemoluments of the patel's office and that Government has  noright to resume " patelki inam lands and regrant the same tothe officiator.It remains now to consider the special claim with regard  tosurvey numbers 2/IA and 9/lA.  The case of the appellant wasthat these two plots ceased to be inam lands, when they fellin  the	 resumed  portion of the Jagir; they  were  sold  byBannobi	 Begum	and Mahmudi Begum, the	jagirdars,  and	 theappellant  and his brother Amrit brought suits and  obtaineddecrees	 in respect of these two plots and in  execution  ofthe  decrees  they obtained possession.	 The  learned  trialJudge rightly pointed out that the decrees aforesaid relatedto property other than plots 2/IA and 9/lA.  Moreover, it isnot  disputed  that  the entire " patelki inam	"  lands  inpossession of Amritrao patel, including the plots which weremade khalsa in 1904-05, were(1) (1933) 29 Nag.  L.R. 210.  (2) I.L.R. (1949) Nag. 1.(3) (1925) 21 Nag.  L.R. 117.728excluded  from resumption and Amrit's "patelki	inam"  landswere treated as a homogenous unit by the orders	  passed  onAugust 28, 1922.  The two plots, 21 1 A and  9/1A,therefore,stand on the same footing as other "patelki  inam" lands  ofAmritrao.The claim of title by adverse possession can be disposed  ofin  a few words.  Once it is held that the lands were  givenby way of emoluments for the patel's office, no question  oftitle by adverse possession arises against Government,	eventhough	the lands were shown as excluded from the  jagir  ofNawabag	 in  1866.  Amrit worked as patel till	he  died  in1920,  and  even  though the  appellant	 got  possession  bypartition  in 1923, it was open to Government to resume	 thelands in 1941 and regrant the same to respondent No. 1. Theappellant  can only succeed if he establishes that he had  aright to a share in the "patelki inam " lands and Governmenthad  no	 right to resume the same.  This the  appellant	 hasfailed	to establish. For  the reasons given, we hold that the appeal is  withoutmerit and must be dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.729