PETITIONER:SETH GANGA DHAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHANKAR LAL & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/04/1958BENCH:ACT:Mortgage-Mortgagor's right redeem-Instruntent providing thatmortgage shall not be redeemable for eightyfive	 years-Term,if a clog on the equity of redemption-Power of Court-Extent-Applicability-Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), s.60.HEADNOTE:The rule against clogs on the equity of redemption  embodiedin s. 60 of the Transfer of-Property Act empowers the  Courtnot  only  to relieve a mortgagor of a	bargain	 whereby  incertain	 circumstances his right to redeem the	mortgage  iswholly taken away, but also where that right is	 restricted.The extent of this latter power is, however, limited by	 thereason	that  gave rise to it,	namely,	 the  unconscionablenature	of the bargain, which, to a court of  equity,  wouldafford sufficient ground for relieving the mortgagor of	 hisburden, and its exercise must, therefore, depend on  whetherthe   bargain,	in  the	 facts	and  circumstances  of	 anyparticular case, was one imposed on the mortgagor by  takingadvantage  of his difficult and impecunious position at	 thetime when lie borrowed the money.Vermon	v. Bethell, (1762) 2 Eden 110; 28 E.  R. S38 and  D.and  C.	 Kreglinger v. New Patagonia Meat and  Cold  StorageCompany, Ltd., [1941] A.C. 25, relied on.Santley v. Wilde, (1913) L. R. 41 I. A. 84 and Mohammad SherKhan v. Seth Swami Dayal, (1912) L.  R. 49 I. A. 60,  refer-red to.Consequently,  in a suit, for redemption where the  mortgagedeed,  by two distinct and independent terms  provided	that(1) the mortgage shall not be redeemed for eightyfive  yearsand (2) that it could be redeemed only after that period andwithin	six months thereafter, failing which  the  mortgagorwould cease to have any claim on the mortgaged property	 andthe  mortgage deed would be deemed to be a deed of  sale  infavour of the mortgagee, and it was clearly evident from thefacts  and  circumstances of the case that the	bargain	 wasquite  fair  and one as between parties	 dealing  with	eachother on an equal footing :Held,  that  the term providing for a period  of  eightyfiveyears  was not a clog on the equity of redemption,  and	 themere  length  of the period could not by itself lead  to  aninference  that the bar. gain was in any way  oppressive  orunreasonable.  The term was enforceable in law and the	suitfor  redemption, filed before the expiry of the period	was-premature.Held,  further,	 that the term that on the  failure  of	 themortgagor  to  redeem  within the specified  period  of	 sixmonths, he65510would  lose his right to do so and the mortgage deed was  tobe  deemed to be a deed of sale in favour of the  mortgagee,was  clearly a clog on the equity of redemption and as	suchinvalid	 but its invalidity could not in any way affect	 thevalidity of the other term as to the period of the mortgage,that stood clearly apart.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 150 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 21, 1950, ofthe  Court of Judicial Commissioner at Ajmer in Civil  FirstAppeal	No.  13	 of 1948, arising out of  the  judgment	 anddecree	dated March 30, 1948, of the Court of Sub-Judge	 1stClass, Ajmer, in Civil Suit No. I of 1947.Tarachand Brijmohan Lal, for the appellant.S.   S. Deedwania and K. L. Mehta, for the respondents.1958.  April 15.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR	J.-This	 appeal	 arises	 out  of  a  suit  for	 theredemption of a mortgage dated August 1, 1899.	The propertymortgaged was a four-roomed shop with certain appurtenances,standing on a piece of land measuring 5 yards by 15 yards inNaya   Bazar,	Ajmere.	  The  mortgage	  was	created	  byPurshottamdas  who  is	now  dead  and	was  in	 favour	  ofDhanrupmal,  a	respondent  in this  appeal.   The  mortgageinstrument stated that the property had been  usufructuarilymortgaged  in lieu of Rs. 6,300 of which Rs. 5,750 had	beenleft  with the mortgagee to redeem a prior mortgage  on	 thesame  and  another  property.  It  also	 provided  that	  onredemption of the prior mortgage, the possession of the shopwould	be  taken  over	 and  retained	by  the	  mortgagee,Dhanrupmal,  who  would	 appropriate its  rent	in  lieu  ofinterest on the money advanced by him and the possession  ofthe  other property covered by the prior mortgage,  being  ashare  in  a Kachery would be made over	 to  the  mortgagor,Purshottamdas.	The provisions in the mortgage instrument onwhich the present dispute turns were in these terms:		     511" I or my heirs will not be entitled to redeem the  propertyfor  a period of 85 years.  After the expiry of 85 years  weshall  redeem it within a period of six months.	 In case  wedo not redeem within a period of six months, then after	 theexpiry	of  the stipulated period, 1, my  heirs,  and  legalrepresentatives	 shall	have  no claim	over  the  mortgagedproperty,  and the mortgagee shall have no claim to get	 themortgage money and the lagat (i. e., repairs) expenses	thatmay  be	 due at the time of default.  In such e,  case	thisvery  deed will be deemed to be a sale deed.  There will  beno need of executing a fresh sale deed.	 The expenses  spentin repairs and new constructions will be paid along with themortgage  money	 at  the time  of  redemption  according  toaccount produced by the mortgagee."The   mortgagee,  Dhanrupmal,  duly  redeemed  the   earliermortgage  and,	went  into  possession	of  the	 shop  whilepossession  of the Kacheri was delivered to  the  mortgagor.On April 12, 1939, Dhanrupmal assigned his rights under	 themortgage to Motilal who died later, and whose estate is	 nowrepresented  by his sons, who are the other  respondents  inthis  appeal.	'The estate of Purshottamdas,  the  originalmortgagor, is now represented by his son, the appellant.On  January  2, 1947, the appellant filed the  suit  in	 theCourt  of  the Sub-Judge, Ajmere, against  the	respondents.The suit was contested by the sons of Motilal, the  assigneeof  the mortgage, who are the only respondents appearing  inthis  appeal and whom we shall hence, hereafter refer to  asthe  respondents.  They said that the suit was premature  asunder the mortgage contract there was no right of redemptionfor  eighty five years after the date of the mortgage,	thatis  to	say, till August 1, 1984.   The	 learned  Sub-Judge,purporting  to	follow a decision of  the  Judicial  Commis-sioner,	 Ajmere, to whom he was subordinate, held  that	 theprovision  postponing  redemption for eightyfive  years	 wasinvalid	 as  it	 amounted  to  a  clog	on  the	 equity	  ofredemption.  He, therefore, passed a preliminary decree	 forredemption.  On appeal, the learned Judicial  Conmmissioner,Ajmere, held, that the decision512which	the   Sub-Judge	 had  purported	  to   follow	was,distinguishable.  He examined a large number of cases on thesubject	 and  came to the conclusion that the  provision  inquestion  did  not  amount  to	a  clog	 on  the  equity  ofredemption.  He, therefore, allowed the appeal and dismissedthe appellant's suit.  From this decision the appeal to thisCourt arises.It is admitted that the case is governed by the Transfer  ofProperty  Act.	Under s. 60 of that Act, at any	 time  afterthe  principal	money has become due, the  mortgagor  has  aright on payment or tender of the mortgage money to  requirethe mortgagee to reconvey the mortgage property to him.	 Theright conferred by this section has been called the right toredeem and the appellant sought to enforce this right by hissuit.	Under  this  section, however,	that  right  can  beexercised only after the mortgage money has become due.	  InBakhtawai-  Begum v. HusainiKhanam (1), also the  same	viewwas expressed in these words:"  Ordinarily,	and in the absence of  a  special  conditionentitling the mortgagor to redeem during the term for  whichthe  mortgage is created, the right of redemption  can	onlyarise on the expiration of the specified period.  "Now, in the present case the term of the mortgage is eighty-five  years  and  there is  no'	 stipulation  entitling	 themortgagor to redeem during that term.  That term has not yetexpired.  The respondents, therefore, contend that the	suitis premature and liable to be dismissed.The  appellant's  answer  to this  contention  is  that	 thecovenant creating the long term of eightyfive years for	 themortgage, taken along with the provision that the  mortgagormust redeem within a period of six months thereafter or	 notat  all	 and the other terms of the mortgage  and  also	 thecircumstances of the case, is really a clog on the equity ofredemption  and is therefore invalid.  He contends that,  inthe result the mortgage money had been due all along and thesuit was not premature.(1)  (1913) L.R. 41 I.A. 84, 89.		     513The rule against clogs on the equity of redemption is  that,a  mortgage  shall always be redeemable	 and  a	 mortgagor'sright  to redeem shall neither be taken away nor be  limitedby  any contract between the parties.  The principle  behindthe rule was expressed by Lindley M. R. in Santley v.  Wilde(1) in these words:" The principle is this: a mortgage is a conveyance of	landor  an assignment of chattles as a security for the  paymentof  a  debt or the discharge of some  other  obligation	 forwhich it is given.  This is the idea of a mortgage: and	 thesecurity  is redeemable on the payment or discharge of	suchdebt   or   obligation,	 any  provision	 to   the   contrarynotwithstanding.   That,  in my opinion, is  the  law.	 Anyprovision  inserted  to	 prevent redemption  on	 payment  orperformance of the debt or obligation for which the securitywas  given  is	what is meant by_ a clog or  fetter  on	 theequity of redemption and is therefore void.  It follows fromthis, that "once a mortgage always a mortgage ".The  right of redemption, therefore, cannot be	taken  away.The  Courts will ignore any contract the effect of which  isto  deprive  the  mortgagor  of	 his  right  to	 redeem	 themortoage.  One thing, therefore, is clear, namely, that	 theterm  in the mortgage contract, that on the failure  of	 themortgagor to redeem the mortgage within the specified periodof  six	 months the mortgagor will have no  claim  over	 themortgaged property, and the mortgage deed will be deemed  tobe  a  deed of sale in favour of the  mortgagee,  cannot  besustained.    It   plainly  takes   away   altogether,	 themortgagor's right to redeem the mortgage after the specifiedperiod.	  This	is not permissible, for "  once	 a  mortgagealways	a mortgage " and therefore always  redeemable.	 Thesame  result  also  follows from s. 60 of  the	Transfer  ofProperty Act.  So it was said in Mohammad Sher Khan v.	SethSwami Dayal (2) :"An anomalous mortgage enabling a mortgagee after a lapse oftime and in the absence of redemption to enter and take	 therents  in satisfaction of the interest. would  be  perfectlyvalid if it did not also hinder an(1) [1899] 2 Ch, 474.(2) (1921) L.R. 49 1,A. 60, 65.514existing  right to redeem.  But it is this that the  presentmortgage  undoubtedly purports to effect.  It  is  expresslystated	to  be	for five years, and  after  that,period	 theprincipal  money became payable.  This, under s. 60  of	 theTransfer  of  Property	Act,  is  the  event  on  which	 themortgagor  had a right on payment of the mortgage  money  toredeem.The  section  is unqualified in its terms, and	contains  nosaving provision as other sections do in favour of contractsto   the  contrary.   Their  lordships	therefore   see	  nosufficient  reason  for withholding from the  words  of	 thesection their full force and effect.  "Under the section, once 'the right to redeem has. arisen  itcannot be taken away.  The mortgagor's right to redeem	mustbe  deemed to continue even after the period of	 six  monthshas  expired and the attempt to confine that right  to	thatperiod	must  fail.   The term in  the	mortgage  instrumentproviding that the mortgage can be redeemed only within thesix months and not thereafter must be held  period of to  beinvalid and ignored.  The learned Judicial Commissioner tookthe  same  view	 and this has not been	challenged  in	thisappeal on behalf of the respondents.With  this term however this case is not really con  cerned.Learned	 advocate for the appellant directed his  attack  onthe  term in the instrument of mortgage that it will not  beredeemable  for eighty five years.  He contended  that	thisterm amounts to a clog on the equity of redemption.  We wishto  observe here that the learned advocate did	not  contendthat  the invalidity, as we have earlier held, of  the	termtaking	away  the  right to redeem the	mortgage  after	 theperiod of six months makes the term fixing the period of themortgage  at  eighty five years invalid.  This	latter	termstands	quite  apart.	It  only fixes	the  time  when	 theprincipal  sum is to become due, that is, when the right  toredeem will accrue and has, therefore, nothing to do with  aterm  which  provides  when that right will  be	 lost.	 Theinvalidity of one does not make the other also invalid.The term providing that the right to redeem will arise aftereightyfive years does not, of course, take515away the mortgagor's right to redeem and is not,  therefore,in that sense, a clog on the equity of redemption.  It does,however	 prevent  accrual  of the right to  redeem  for	 theperiod mentioned.  Is it then, in so far as it prevents	 theright to redeem from accruing for a time, a clog ?As we have already said, the right to redeem does not  arisetill  the principal money becomes due.	When  the  principalsum  is to become due must of course depend on the  contractbetween	 the parties.  In the present case the parties	haveagreed that the right to redeem will arise eightyfive  yearsafter  the  date  of  the mortgage,  that  is  to  say,	 theprincipal  money will then become due.	The  appellant	saysthat  he  should be relieved from this bargain that  he	 hasmade.  This is the contention that has to be examined.The rule against clogs on the equity of redemption no  doubtinvolves  that the Courts have the power to relieve a  partyfrom his bar 'gain.  If he has agreed to forfeit wholly	 hisright  to  redeem in certain circumstances,  that  agreementwill  be  avoided.  But the Courts have	 gone  beyond  this.They have also relieved mortgagors from bargains whereby theright to redeem has not been taken away but restricted.	 Thequestion  is  the term now under consideration such  that  aCourt  will exercise its power to grant relief against it  ?That  depends  on the extent of this power.  It is  a  powerevolved in the early English Courts of Equity for a  specialreason.	  All  through	the ages  the  reason  has  remainedconstant and the Court's power is therefore limited by	thatreason.	  The  extent of this power has,  therefore,  to  beascertained  by	 having regard to its origin.	It  will  beenough for this purpose to refer to two authorities on	thisquestion.In  a  very  early case, namely, Vermon v. Bethell  Earl  ofNorthington L. C. said,"  This court, as a court of conscience, is very jealous  ofpersons	 taking securities for a loan, and  converting	suchsecurities into purchases.  And therefore I take it to be anestablished rule, that a mortgagee can never provide at	 thetime of making the(1)  (1762) 2 Eden 110, 113; 28 E.R. 838,839.516loan  for  any	event or condition on which  the  equity  ofredemption shall be discharged, and the conveyance absolute.And  there  is great reason and justice in  this  rule,	 fornecessitous  men are not, truly speaking, free men, but,  toanswer a present exigency, will submit to any terms that thecrafty may impose upon them.  "In comparatively recent times Viscount Haldane L. C.repeatedthe same view when he said in G. and C. Kreglinger  v.	 NewPatagonia  Meat	 and  Cold Storage Company  Ltd.  (1):	Thisjurisdiction  was  merely a special application	 of  a	moregeneral power to relieve against penalties and to could theminto  mere securities.	The case of the common law  mortgageof  land was indeed a gross one.  The land was	conveyed  tothe  creditor  upon the condition that if the money  he	 hadadvanced to the feoffor was repaid on a date and at a  placenamed,	the fee simple would revest in the latter, but	thatif the condition was not strictly and literally fulfilled heshould lose the land forever.  What made the hardship on thedebtor a glaring one was that the debt still remained unpaidand could be recovered from the feoffor notwithstanding thathe  had	 actually  forfeited  the  land	 to  the  mortgagee.Equity, therefore, at an early date began to relieve againstwhat was virtually a penalty by compelling the creditor touse his legal title as a mere security.My  Lords, this was the origin of the jurisdiction which  weare now considering, and it is important to bear that originin  mind.  For the end to accomplish which the	jurisdictionhas  been evolved ought to govern and limit its exercise  byequity	judges.	 That end has always been to  ascertain,  bypatrol evidence if need be, the real nature and substance ofthe transaction, and if it turned out to be in truth one  ofmortgage  simply, to place it on that footing.	It  was,  inordinary cases, only where there was conduct which the Courtof  Chancery regarded as unconscientious that it  interferedwith freedom of contract.  The lending of money, on mortgageor otherwise, was looked		     517on  with  suspicion,  and  the court was  on  the  alert  todiscover  want	of  conscience	in  the	 terms	imposed	  bylenders."The  reason then justifying the Court's power to  relieve  amortgagor  from	 the effects of his bargain is its  want  ofconscience.   Putting  it  in  more  familiar  language	 theCourt's jurisdiction to relieve a mortgagor from his bargaindepends	 on whether it was obtained by taking  advantage  ofany  difficulty or embarrassment that he might have been  inwhen  he  borrowed  the moneys on  the	mortgage.   Was	 themortgagor oppressed ? Was he imposed upon ? If he was,	thenhe may be entitled to relief.We then have to see if there was anything unconscionable  inthe  agreement that the mortgage would not be  redeemed	 foreightyfive  years.   Is it oppressive ?	 Was  he  forced  toagree to it because of his difficulties ?  Now this questionis  essentially	 one of fact and has to be  decided  on	 thecircumstances of each case.  It would be wholly unprofitablein enquiring into this question to examine the large  numberof reported cases on the subject, for each turns on its	 ownfacts.First then, does the length of the term-and in this case  itis  long  enough being eightyfive years-itself lead  to	 theconclusion that it was an oppressive term ?  In our view, itdoes not do so.	 It is not necessary for us to go so far  asto say that the length of the term of the mortgage can neverby  itself show that the bargain was oppressive.  We do	 notdesire	to say anything on that question in this  case.	  Wethink  it  enough to say that we have nothing here  to	showthat  the length of the term was in any way  dis-advantagousto  the mortgagor.  It is quite conceivable that it  was  tohis  advantage.	  The suit for redemption was  brought	overforty-seven years after the date of the mortgage.  It  seemsto  us impossible that if the term was oppressive, that	 wasnot  realised  much earlier and the suit  brought  within  ashort	time   of  the	mortgage.   The	  learned   JudicialCommissioner felt that the respondents' contention that	 thesuit  had been brought as the price of landed  property	 hadgone up after the war, was66518justified.  We are not prepared to say that he was wrong  inthis  view.  We cannot also ignore, as appears from a  largenumber	of  reported decisions, that it is not	uncommon  invarious parts of India to have long term mortgages.  Then wefind that the property was subject to a prior mortgage.	  Weare  not  aware what the term-of that mortgage was'  But  wefind  that mortgage included another property  which  becamefreed  from  it as a result of the mortgage in	suit.	Thiswould  show that the mortgagee under this mortgage  Was	 notputting any pressure on the mortgagor.	That conclusion alsoreceives support from the fact that the mortgage money underthe  present mortgage was more than that under	the  earliermortgage but the mortgagee in the present case was satisfiedwith  a smaller security.  Again, no complaint is made	thatthe  interest charged, which was to be measured by the	rentof the property, was in any manner high.  All these, to	 ourmind,  indicate that the mortgagee had not taken any  unfairadvantage  of  his  position as the  lender,  nor  that	 themortgagor was under any financial embarrassment.It  is	said that the mortgage instrument  itself  indicatesthat  the bargain is hard, for, while the  mortgagor  cannotredeem	for  eighty-five  years, the mortgagee	is  free  todemand	payment	 of  his dues at any  time  he	likes'	Thiscontention is plainly fallacious. ; There is nothing in	 themortgage  instrument permitting the mortgagee to demand	 anymoney, and it is well settled that the mortgagee's right  toenforce the mortgage and the mortgagor's right to redeem areco-extensive.Then it is said that under the deed the mortgagee can  spendany  amount  on	 repairs to the	 mortgage  property  and  inputting up new constructions there- and the mortgagor  couldonly  redeem  after paying the expenses for these.   We	 areunable	to  agree that such is the effect  of  the  mortgageinstrument.   We  cannot  lose sight of the  fact  that	 themortgaged  shop and the area of the land on which  it  stoodwere very small.  It was not possible to spend a large.	 sumon  repairs  or	 construction  there.	Furthermore,  havingagreed to 85 years as the term of the mortgage, the  partiesmust519have  imagined	that  during this long	period	repairs	 andconstructions  would  become  necessary.  It  is  only	suchnecessary repairs as are contemplated by the instrument	 andwe do not consider that it is hard on the mortgagor to	haveto pay for such repairs and construction when he redeems theproperty   and	 gets  the  benefit  of	 the   repairs	 andconstruction.  Neither do we think that there is anything inthe  contention	 that under the document the  mortgagor	 wasbound  to  accept  whatever was	 shown	in  the	 mortgagee'saccount	 as  having  been  spent on  the  repairs  and	con-struction.   That  is not, in our view, the  effect  of	 therelevant clause which reads, " The expenses spent in repairsand  new constructions will be paid...... according  to	 theaccount	 produced by the mortgagee.  " All that it means  isthat   in  claiming  moneys  on	 account  of   repairs	 andconstruction  the  mortgagee  will have	 to  show  from	 hisaccount	 that  he  spent  these	 moneys.   It  is  really  asafeguard for the mortgagor.  It was also said that all	 theterms in the deed were for the benefit of the mortgagee	 andthat  showed  that the bargain was a hard one.	 We  do	 notthink  that  all  the  terms were for  the  benefit  of	 themortgagee, or that what there was in the instrument was	 forhis  benefit and indicated that the mortgagee had  forced  ahard bargain on the mortgagor.	We have earlier said how thebargain	 appears to us to have been fair and one as  betweenparties dealing with each other on equal footing.We  have  no  evidence in this	case  of  the  circumstancesexisting  at  the date of the mortgage as to  the  pecuniarycondition of the mortgagor or as to anything else from whichwe  may come to the conclusion that the mortgagee had  takenadvantage of the difficulties of the mortgagor and imposed ahard  bargain  on him. It was said that the  fact  that	 theproperty was subject to a prior mortgage at the date of	 themortgage  in suit indicates the impecunious position of	 themortgagor.   We	 are unable to agree with  this	 contention.Every debtor is not necessarily impecunious.  The  mortgagorcertainly derived this advantage from that mortgage that  hewas  able to free from the earlier mortgage the kacheri	 andhe has been in enjoyment of it ever since.520That,  to  our	mind, indicates that the  bargain  had	beenfreely	made, There was nothing else to which our  attentionwas  directed  as showing that the bargain  was	 hard.	 We,therefore,  think that the bargain was a reasonable one	 andthe  eighty-five  years	 term  of  the	mortgage  should  beenforced.  We then come to the conclusion that the suit	 waspremature and' must fail.In the result we dismiss this appeal with costs.Appeal	   dismissed.