PETITIONER:SRI C. I. EMDEN	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF U. P.DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/12/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)SUBBARAO, K.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  548		  1960 SCR  (2) 592 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC 575	 (10) R	    1966 SC1762	 (3) R	    1968 SC1292	 (8) E	    1973 SC  28	 (19,20) R	    1975 SC 899	 (10) RF	    1979 SC 478	 (72) R	    1986 SC2045	 (55) RF	    1990 SC1269	 (2,3)ACT:Prevention  of	Corruption-Trial  on a	charge	of  bribery-Receipt	 of  gratification other  than	legal  remuneration,meaning	 of Statutory Presumption-Whether offends  guaranteeof   equal  protection	of  laws-Rebuttal  of	Presumption-Constitution of India, Art. 14-Prevention of Corruption Act,1947 (11 of 1947), s. 4.HEADNOTE:The appellant, who was working as a Loco Foreman, was  foundto have accepted a sum of Rs. 375 from a Railway Contractor.The  appellant's  explanation was that he had  borrowed	 theamount	as he was in need of money for meeting the  expensesof the clothing of his children who were studying in school,The  Special judge accepted the evidence of  the  contractorand held that the money had been taken as a bribe, that	 thedefence	  story	  was  improbable  and	untrue,	  that	 thepresumption  under s. 4 Of the Prevention of Corruption	 Acthad  to	 be  raised and that the presumption  had  not	beenrebutted  by  the appellant and	 accordingly  convicted	 himunder s. 161 Indian Penal Code and s. 5 Of the Prevention ofCorruption Act, 1947.  On appeal the High Court held that onthe  facts of the case the statutory presumption under S.  4had  to	 be  raised, that the  explanation  offered  by	 theappellant was improbable and palpably unreasonable and	thatthe  presumption  had  not been	 rebutted,  and	 upheld	 theconviction.  The appellant contended (i) that S. 4 was ultravires  as it contravened Art. 14 of the	 Constitution,	(ii)that  the presumption under s. 4 could not be raised  merelyon  proof  of acceptance of money but it had further  to  beproved	that  the money was accepted as a bribe,  (iii)	 andthat even if the presumption arose it was rebutted when	 theappellant offered a reasonably probable explanation.Held, that s. 4 of the Prevention of Corruption Act did	 notviolate Art. 14 Of the Constitution.  The classification  ofpublic servants who were brought within the mischief of s. 4was  based on intelligible differentia which had a  rationalrelation to the object of the Act, viz,, eradicating briberyand corruption amongst public servants.Ram  Krishna Dalmia v. Shri justice S. R. Tendolkar,  [1959]S.C.R. 279, followed.A.   S.	 Krishna v. The State of Madras, [1957] S.C.R.	399,referred to.The presumption under s. 4 arose when it was shown that	 theaccused	 had  received the stated amount and that  the	saidamount was not legal remuneration.The word " gratification '593in s. 4(1) was to be given its literal dictionary meaning ofsatisfaction  of  appetite  or	desire ;  it  could  not  beconstrued  to mean money paid by way of a bribe.   The	HighCourt  was justified in raising the presumption against	 theappellant as it was admitted that he had received the  moneyfrom  the contractor and the amount received was other	thanlegal remuneration.State v. Pundlik Bhikaji Ahire, (1959) 61 Bom.	L.R. 837 andPromod	Chander	 Shekhar  v.  Rex,  I.L.R.  1950  All.	382,approved.The State v. Abhey singh, A.I.R. 1957 Raj. 138 and State  v.Pandurang   Laxman   Parab,  (1958)  60	 Bom.	 L.R.	811,disapproved.Even if it be assumed that the presumption arising under  S.4(1) could be rebutted by the accused giving an	 explanationwhich was a reasonably probable one the High Court was rightin  holding that the explanation given by the appellant	 waswholly unsatisfactory and unreasonable.Otto  George Gfeller v. The King, A.I.R. 1943 P.C.  211	 andRex v. Cary Briant, (1943) I K.B. 607, referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 68  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly 11, 1957, of the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow  Bench),Lucknow, in Criminal Appeal No. 515 of 1955, arising out  ofthe  judgment  and  order dated October	 31,  1955,  of	 theSpecial	 Judge, Anti-corruption, Lucknow, in  Criminal	CaseNo. 2/3/32/45 of 1953-55.Frank Anthony, Udai Pratap Singh and P. C. Agarwala, for theappellant.G. C. Mathur and O. P. Lal, for the respondent.1959.  December 15.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR	  J.-This    appeal   by    special    leaveGajendragadkar j. has been filed by C. 1. Emden (hereinaftercalled the appellant) who has been convicted under s. 161 ofthe Indian Penal Code and under s. 5(2) of the Prevention ofCorruption Act 2 of 1947 (hereinafter called the Act).	 Thecase against him was that he had accepted a bribe of Rs. 375from Sarat Chandra Shukla on January 8, 1953.  The appellantwas  a	Loco Foreman at Alambagh Loco Shed, and	 Shukla	 hadsecured	 a  contract at the same place for  the	 removal  ofcinders 76594from ash pits and for loading coal.  This contract had	beengiven to Shukla in June 1952.  The prosecution case was thatthe  appellant	demanded from Shukla  Rs. 400 per  month  inorder  that Shukla may be allowed to carry out his  contractpeacefully  without any harassment.  Shukla was told by	 theappellant that he had been receiving a monthly payment	fromRam  Ratan  who had held a similar contract before  him	 andthat it would be to his interest to agree to pay the  bribe.Shukla, however, refused to accede to this request and	thatled  to many hostile acts on the part of the appellant.	  OnJanuary 3, 1953, the appellant again asked Shukla to pay himthe   monthly  bribe  as  already  suggested;  Shukla	thenrequested  him to reduce the demand on the ground  that	 thecontract given to him was for a much lesser amount than thatwhich  had  been  given to his predecessor  Ram	 Ratan;	 theappellant thereupon agreed to accept Rs. 375.  Shukla had nomoney  at  the	time and so he asked for time  to  make	 thenecessary  arrangement.	 The agreement then was that  Shuklawould  pay  the money to the appellant on January  8,  1953.Meanwhile  Shukla approached the Deputy	 Superintendent,  ofPolice,	 Corruption Branch, and gave him  information  aboutthe   illegal  demand  made  by	 the  appellant.    Shukla'sstatement  was then recorded before a magistrate and it	 wasdecided	 to lay a trap.	 Accordingly, a party consisting  ofShukla, the magistrate, the Deputy Superintendent of  Policeand  some other persons went to the Loco Yard.	 Shukla	 andSada  Shiv proceeded inside the Yard while the rest  of	 theparty stood at the gate.  Shukla then met the appellant	 andinformed him that he had brought the money; he was told thatthe appellant would go out to the Yard and accept the money.At  about  3 p.m. the appellant went out to  the  Yard	and,after	making	a  round,  came	 to  the  place	 which	 wascomparatively  secluded.   He then asked Shukla to  pay	 themoney  and  Shukla gave him a bundle containing	 the  markedcurrency  notes of the value of Rs. 375.  A signal was	thenmade by Shukla and the raiding party immediately arrived  onthe scene.  The magistrate disclosed his identity to the595appellant and asked him to produce the amount paid to him byShukla.	 The appellant then took out the currency notes fromhis pocket and handed them over to the magistrate.  It is onthese  facts that charges under s. 161 of the  Indian  PenalCode  and  s.  5(2)  of the  Act  were	framed	against	 theappellant.The  appellant denied the charge.  He admitted that  he	 hadreceived  Rs. 375 from Shukla but his case was that  at	 hisrequest Shukla had advanced the said amount to him by way ofloan  for  meeting  the	 expenses of  the  clothing  of	 hischildren who were studying in school.  The appellant allegedthat  since  he had been in need of money he  had  requestedKishan	Chand to arrange for a loan of Rs. 500; but  knowingabout  his need Shukla offered to advance him the loan,	 andit  was	 as such loan that Shukla paid him Rs. 375  and	 theappellant  accepted the said amount.  Both  the	 prosecutionand  the  defence led evidence to support  their  respectiveversions.The  learned special judge who tried the case  believed	 theevidence  given	 by Shukla, held that  it  was	sufficientlycorroborated,	and  found  that  the  defence	 story	 wasimprobable and untrue.	The learned judge also held that  onthe  evidence led before him the presumption under s.  4  ofthe  Act had to be raised and that the said presumption	 hadnot  been  rebutted  by the evidence  led  by  the  defence.Accordingly,  the learned judge convicted the  appellant  ofboth  the offences charged and sentenced him to	 suffer	 oneyear's	rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of  Rs.	 500under	s.  161	 of  the  Code	and  two   years'   rigorousimprisonment under s. 5 of the Act.  Both the sentences wereordered to run concurrently.The  appellant challenged the correctness and  propriety  ofthis order by his appeal before the High Court of Allahabad.The  High  Court saw no reason to interfere with  the  orderunder appeal because it held that, on the facts of the case,a statutory presumption under s. 4 had to be raised and thatthe said presumption had not been rebutted by the appellant.In  other  words  the  High  Court  did	 not  consider	 theprosecution evidence apart from the presumption since596it placed its decision on the presumption and the failure ofthe  defence to rebut it.  In the result the  conviction  ofthe  appellant was confirmed, the sentence   passed  againsthim  under s. 161 was maintained but  the sentence  under s.5(2)  of  the Act was reduced to  one year.   The  sentencesthus passed were ordered to   run   concurrently.    It	  isagainst this order that the present appeal by special  leavehas  been preferred by the appellant.  This appeal has	beenplaced before a Constitution Bench because one of the pointswhich the appellant raises for our decision is that s.	4(1)of the Act which requires a presumption to be raised againstan accused person is unconstitutional and ultra vires as  itviolates the fundamental right guaranteed by Art. 14 of	 theConstitution.  We would, therefore, first examine the meritsof this point.The  Act was passed in 1947 with the object  of	 effectivelypreventing  bribery and corruption.  Section  4(1)  providesthat  where in any trial of an offence punishable  under  s.161 or s. 165 of the Indian Penal Code it is proved that  anaccused	 person has accepted or obtained, or has  agreed  toaccept or attempted to obtain, for himself or for any  otherperson, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) orany  valuable  thing from any person, it shall	be  presumedunless	the contrary is proved that he accepted or  obtainedor   agreed   to  accept  or  attempted	 to   obtain,	thatgratification or that valuable thing, as the case may be, asa motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said  section161,  or as the case may be, without consideration or for  aconsideration which he knows to be inadequate.	Mr. Anthony,for  the  appellant,  contends	that  this  section  offendsagainst	 the fundamental requirement of equality before	 lawor  the	 equal	protection  of laws.   It  is  difficult  toappreciate  this  argument.   The scope and  effect  of	 thefundamental right guaranteed by Art. 14 has been  consideredby  this  Court	 on several occasions; as a  result  of	 thedecisions  of this Court it is well estab. lished that	Art.14  does  not  forbid  reasonable  classific-ation  for	 thepurposes   of  legislation;  no	 doubt	it   forbids   classlegislation; but if it appears that the597impugned legislation is based on a reasonable classificationfounded	 on  intelligible  differentia	and  that  the	saiddifferentia have a rational relation to the object Sought tobe  achieved  by  it, its validity  cannot  be	successfullychallenged  under Art. 14 (Vide: Shri Ram Krishna Dalmia  v.Shri Justice S. R. Tendolkar (1).  In the present case therecan be no doubt that the basis adopted by the Legislature inclassifying  one  class of public servants who	are  broughtwithin	the  mischief  of s. 4(1) is  a	 perfectly  rationalbasis.	It is based on an intelligible differentia and therecan be no difficulty in distinguishing the class of  personscovered	 by  the  impugned section  from  other	 classes  ofpersons	 who  are  accused  of	committing  other  offences.Legislature  presumably realised that experience  in  courtsshowed	how  difficult it is to bring home  to	the  accusedpersons the charge of bribery; evidence which is and can  begenerally adduced in such cases in support of the charge  isapt to be treated as tainted, and so it is not very easy  toestablish  the charge of bribery beyond a reasonable  doubt.Legislature felt that the evil of corruption amongst  publicservants  posed a serious problem and bad to be	 effectivelyrooted	 out  in  the  interest	 of  clean   and   efficientadministration.	  That	is why the  Legislature	 decided  toenact  s.  4(1) with a view to require the  raising  of	 thestatutory  presumption	as soon as the	condition  precedentprescribed  by it in that behalf is satisfied.	 The  objectwhich  the  Legislature	 thus  wanted  to  achieve  is	 theeradication of corruption from amongst public servants,	 andbetween the said object and the intelligible differentia  onwhich  the classification is based there is a  rational	 anddirect	relation.   We	have, therefore,  no  hesitation  inholding	 that the challenge to the vires of s. 4(1)  on	 theground	that  it violates Art. 14 of the  Constitution	mustfail.	Incidentally, we may refer' to the decision of	thisCourt in A. S. Krishna v. The State of Madras (2) in which asimilar	 challenge to the vires of a  statutory	 presumptionrequired   to  be  raised  under  s.  4(2)  of	the   MadrasProhibition Act, 10 of 1937, has been repelled.(1) [1959] S.C.R. 279.	     (2) [1957] S.C. R. 399.598That  takes us to the question of construing s. 4(1).	Whendoes  the statutory presumption fall to be raised, and	whatis  the	 content  of  the  said	 presumption?	Mr.  Anthonycontends  that	the statutory presumpion  cannot  be  raisedmerely on proof of the fact that the appellant had  receivedRs. 375 from Shukla; in order to justify the raising of	 thestatutory   presumption	 it  must  also	 be  shown  by	 theprosecution that the amount was paid and accepted as by	 wayof  bribe.  This argument involves the construction  of	 thewords  " any gratification other than, legal remuneration  "used in s. 4(1).  It is also urged by Mr. Anthony that	evenif   the  statutory  presumption  is  raised   against	 theappellant,  in	deciding  the question	as  to	whether	 thecontrary is proved within the meaning of s. 4(1) it must  beborne in mind that the onus of proof on the appellant is notas heavy as it is on the prosecution in a criminal trial.Let  us	 first consider when the presumption can  be  raisedunder  s.  4(1).  In dealing with this question	 it  may  berelevant  to remember that the presumption is drawn  in	 thelight of the provisions of s. 161 of the Indian Penal  Code.In substance the said section provides inter alia that if  apublic servant accepts any gratification whatever other thanlegal  remuneration  as	 a motive or  reward  for  doing  orforbearing to do any official act, he is guilty of acceptingillegal	  gratification.    Section   4(1)   requires	 thepresumption  to	 be  raised whenever it is  proved  that  anaccused	 person	 has accepted "	 any  illegal  gratification(other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing." Thisclause does not include the receipt of trivial gratificationor  thing  which is covered by the exception  prescribed  bysub-s.	(3).   The  argument  is  that	in  prescribing	 thecondition   precedent	for  raising   a   presumption	 theLegislature  has advisedly used the word "  gratification  "and  not  money	 or gift or other  consideration.   In	thisconnection  reliance  has been placed on  the  correspondingprovision  contained  in s. 2 of the English  Prevention  ofCorruption Act, 1916 (6 Geo. 5, c. 64) which uses the  words"any money, gift, or other consideration ". The use of the599word gratification emphasises that it is not the receipt  ofany  money which justifies the raising of  the	presumption;something  more	 than the mere receipt of money	 has  to  beproved.	  It must be proved that the money was	received  byway of bribe.  This contention no doubt is supported by	 thedecision  of the Rajasthan High Court in The State v.  AbheySingh  (1) as well as the decision of the Bombay High  Courtin the State v. Pandurang Laxman Parab (2).On the other hand Mr. Mathur, for the State, argues that theword  " gratification " should be construed in	its  literaldictionary  meaning  and as such it  means  satisfaction  ofappetite  or desire; that is to say the presumption  can  beraised	whenever it is shown that the accused  has  receivedsatisfaction either of his desire or appetite.	No doubt  itis conceded by now that in most of the cases it-would be thepayment	 of  money which would cause  gratification  to	 theaccused;  but  he contests the suggestion that	the  word  "gratification  "  must be confined only to  the	 payment  ofmoney  coupled	with the right that the money  should-	havebeen paid by way of a bribe.  This view has been accepted bythe  Bombay High Court in a subsequent decision in State  v.Pundlik Bhikaji Ahire (3) and by the Allahabad High Court inPromod Chander Shekhar v. Rex (4).Paragraph  3 of s. 161 of the Code provides that the word  "gratification " is not restricted to pecuniary gratificationor  to	gratifications	estimable  in  money.	Therefore  "gratification " mentioned in s. 4(1) cannot be confined onlyto  payment  of money.	What the prosecution  has  to  provebefore	asking the court to raise a presumption	 against  anaccused	 person is that the accused person has received a  "gratification  other  than legal remuneration ";  if  it  isshown,	as in the present case it has been shown,  that	 theaccused received the stated amount and that the said  amountwas not legal remuneration then the condition prescribed  bythe   section	is  satisfied.	 In  the  context   of	 theremuneration legally payable to, and receivable by, a(1)  A.I.R. [1957] Rajasthan 138.(2)  (1958) 60 B. L. R. 8 xi.(3)  (1959) 61 B.L.R. 837.(4)  I.L.R. 1950 All. 382.600public servant, there is no difficulty in holding that wheremoney  is shown to have been paid to, and accepted by,	suchpublic servant and that the said  money does not  constitutehis legal remuneration, the presumption has to be raised  asrequired  by the section.  If the word " gratification "  isconstrued to mean money paid by way of a bribe then it wouldbe futile or superfluous to prescribe for the raising of thepresumption.  Technically it may no doubt be suggested	thatthe  object which the statutory presumption serves  on	thisconstruction  is  that the court may then presume  that	 themoney  was paid by way of a bribe as a motive or  reward  asrequired  by s. 161 of the Code.  In our opinion this  couldnot   have  been  the  intention  of  the   Legislature	  inprescribing the statutory presumption under s. 4(1).  In thecontext	 we see no justification for not giving the  word  "gratification " its literal dictionary meaning.There	is   another  consideration  which   supports	thisconstruction.  The presumption has also to be raised when itis  shown that the accused person has received any  valuablething.	This clause has reference to the offence  punishableunder s. 165 of the Code; and there. is no doubt that one ofthe  essential ingredients of the said offence is  that	 thevaluable  thing	 should have been received  by	the  accusedwithout consideration or for a consideration which he  knowsto be inadequate.  It cannot be suggested that the  relevantclause	in  s. 4(1) which deals with the acceptance  of	 anyvaluable  thing	 should be interpreted to  impose  upon	 theprosecution  an	 obligation  to	 prove	not  only  that	 thevaluable thing has been received by the accused but that  ithas  been  received by him without consideration  or  for  aconsideration  which he knows to be inadequate.	  The  plainmeaning of this clause undoubtedly requires the	 presumptionto  be raised whenever it is shown that the  valuable  thinghas been received by the accused without anything more.	  Ifthat is the true position in respect of the construction  ofthis  part of s. 4(1) it would be unreasonable to hold	thatthe  word " gratification " in the same clause	imports	 thenecessity to prove not only the payment			    601of  money  but	the  incriminating  character  of  the	saidpayment.   It is true that the Legislature might  have	usedthe word " money " or " consideration " as has been done  bythe  relevant  section of the English statute;	but  if	 thedictionary  meaning  of the word " gratification "  fits  inwith the scheme of the section and leads to the same  resultas  the meaning of the word " valuable thing " mentioned  inthe  same  clause, we see no justification  for	 adding	 anyclause	to qualify the word " gratification"; the  view	 forwhich  the appellant contends in effect amounts to adding  aqualifying  clause  to	describe  gratification.   We  wouldaccordingly  hold that in the present appeal the High  Courtwas  justified	in  raising  the  presumption  against	 theappellant because it is admitted by him that he received Rs.375 from Shukla and that the amount thus received by him wasother than legal remuneration.What then is the content of the presumption which is  raisedagainst	 the  appellant	 ?  Mr. Anthony	 argues	 that  in  acriminal case the onus of proof which the accused is  calledupon  to  discharge  can never be as heavy as  that  of	 theprosecution,  and that the High Court should  have  acceptedthe  explanation  given	 by the appellant because  it  is  areasonably probable explanation.  He contends that the	testwhich can be legitimately applied in deciding whether or notthe  defence  explanation should be accepted  cannot  be  asrigorous  as  can  be and must be applied  in  deciding	 themerits	of  the prosecution case.  This	 question  has	beenconsidered  by	courts in India and in	England	 on  severaloccasions.   We	 may briefly indicate some of  the  relevantdecisions on this point.In Otto George Gfeller v. The King(1) the Privy Council	 wasdealing with the case where the prosecution had	 establishedthat the accused were in possession of goods recently stolenand  the  point	 which	arose  for  decision  was  how	 theexplanation given by the accused about his possession of thesaid  goods would or should be considered by the  jury.	  Inthat   connection  Sir	George	Rankin	observed  that	 theappellant did not(1)  A.I.R. 1943 P.C. 211.77602have  to  prove his story, but if his story broke  down	 thejury  might convict.  In other words, the jury	might  thinkthat the explanation given was one which	   could notbe   reasonably	  true,	 attributing  a	 reticence   or	  anincuriosity  or a guilelessness to him beyond anything	thatcould fairly be supposed.  The same view was taken in Rex v.Carr Briant (1) where it has been observed that in any	casewhere  either  by statute or at common law  some  matter  ispresumed  against  an  accused, "  unless  the	contrary  is-proved	 the jury should be directed that it is for them  todecide	whether the contrary is proved, that the  burden  ofproof  required is less than that required at the  bands  ofthe  prosecution  in proving the case  beyond  a  reasonabledoubt,	and  that the burden may be discharged	by  evidencesatisfying  the	 jury of the probability of that  which	 theaccused	 is called upon to establish " (p. 612).   In  otherwords,	the  effect of these observations appears to  be  torelax	to  some  extent  the  rigour  of  "the	  elementaryproposition  that  in  civil  -cases  the  preponderance  ofprobability may constitute sufficient ground for a verdict "(p.  611),(Also vide: Regina v. Dunbar (2)).  It is  on	 thestrength  of these decisions that Mr. Anthony contends	thatin  deciding  whether the contrary has been  proved  or	 notunder  s.  4(1) the High Court should not have	applied	 thesame  test  as	has  to	 be  applied  in  dealing  with	 theprosecution  case.  The High Court should have inquired	 notwhether	 the  explanation given by the appellant  is  whollysatisfactory  but  whether  it	is  a  reasonably   possibleexplanation  or not.  On behalf of the State it is urged  byMr.  Mathur  that in construing the effect of the  clause  "unless the contrary is proved " we must necessarily refer tothe definition of the word " proved " prescribed by s. 3  ofthe  Evidence Act.  A fact is said to be proved when,  afterconsidering the matter before it, the Court either  believesit  to exist or considers its existence so probable  that  aprudent man ought under the circumstances of the  particularcase to act on the supposition that it exists.	He has	alsorelied	on s. 4 which provides that whenever it is  directedthat the(1) (1943) 1 K.B. 607.(2) (1958) 1 Q.B. 1 at p. 11.603court  shall  presume a fact it shall record  such  fact  asproved	unless and until it is disproved.  The	argument  isthat  there is not much room for relaxing the onus of  proofwhere the accused is called upon to prove the contrary unders. 4(1).  We do not think it necessary to decide this  pointin the present appeal.	We are prepared to assume in  favourof the appellant that  even if the explanation given  by himis a reasonably probable one the presumption raised  againsthim  can  be said to be rebutted.  But is  the	explanation.given  by  him reasonably probable ? That  is  the  questionwhich must now be considered.What is his explanation ? He admits that he received Rs. 375from Shukla but urges that Shukla gave him this amount as  aloan  in  order to enable him to meet the  expenses  of	 theclothes	 for his school-going children.	 In support of	thisthe  appellant	gave evidence himself,	and  examined  otherwitnesses,  Kishan Chand and Ram Ratan being  the  principalones  amongst  them.   The  High  Court	 has  examined	thisevidence  and has disbelieved it.  It has found that  KishanChand is an interested witness and that the story deposed toby  him	 is highly improbable.	Apart from  this  conclusionreached	 by  the High Court on	appreciating  oral  evidenceadduced	 in support of the defence plea, the High Court	 hasalso  examined the probabilities in the case.  It has  foundthat at the material time the appellant was in possession ofa  bank balance of Rs. 1,600 and that his salary  was  aboutRs. 600 per month.  Besides his children for whose  clothinghe  claims  to have borrowed money had to go  to  school  inMarch  and  there was no immediate  pressure  for  preparingtheir  clothes.	  The  appellant  sought  to  overcome	thisinfirmity in his explanation by suggesting that he wanted toreserve	 his bank balance for the purpose of his  daughter'smarriage  which	 he  was intending to perform  in  the	nearfuture.	 The High Court was not impressed by this story; andso  it	thought that the purpose for which  the	 amount	 wasalleged	 to have been borrowed could not be a true  purpose.Besides the High Court has also considered whether it  wouldhave been probable that Shukla604should have advanced money to the appellant.  Having  regardto  the	 relations between the appellant and Shukla  it	 washeld  by the High Court that it was extremely unlikely	thatShukla	would  have  offered  to advance  any  loan  to	 theappellant.  It is on a consideration of these facts that theHigh Court came to	 the conclusion that the explanationgiven	by   the  accused  was	 improbable   and   palpablyunreasonable.It is true that in considering the explanation given by	 theappellant  the High Court has incidentally referred  to	 thestatement  made	 by  him  on January  8,  1953,	 before	 themagistrate,  and Mr. Anthony has strongly objected  to	thispart  of the judgment.	It is urged that the statement	madeby   the   appellant  before  the   magistrate	 after	 theinvestigation	into   the   offence   had   commenced	  isinadmissible.  We are prepared to assume that this criticismis  wellfounded	 and  that  the	 appellant's  statement	  inquestion  should  not  have  been  taken  into	account	  inconsidering the probability of his explanation; but, in	 ouropinion, the judgment of the High Court shows that not	muchimportance  was	 attached to this statement,  and  that	 thefinal  conclusion of the High Court was substantially  basedon its appreciation of the oral evidence led by the  defenceand  on	 considerations	 of probability	 to  which  we	havealready referred.  Therefore, we are satisfied that the HighCourt  was right in discarding the explanation given by	 theappellant  as wholly unsatisfactory and unreasonable.	Thatbeing so it is really not necessary in the present appeal todecide	the question about the nature of the onus  of  proofcast  upon  the	 accused  by s.	 4(1)  after  the  statutorypresumption is raised against him.In the result the appeal fails, the order of conviction	 andsentence  passed against the appellant is confirmed and	 hisbail bond cancelled.Appeal dismissed.			    605