PETITIONER:PRAMATHA NATH MUKHERJEE	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/03/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  810		  1960 SCR  (3) 245ACT:Criminal  Tyial-Accused	 discharged-of	offence	 triable  asWarrant	 case-If  can  be tried for  any  other	 triable  assummons	 case  on  facts disclosed  in	the  Police  Report-Cognizance  by Magistrate-Code of Criminal Procedure  (V  of1898), SS. 251A(2), 190(1)(b).HEADNOTE:A Criminal case was instituted in the court of a  Magistrateat Calcutta against the appellant under s. 332 of the IndianPenal  Code for voluntarily causing hurt to the	 Bailiff  ofCalcutta Corporation and another.  After hearing both  sidesthe  Magistrate was of the opinion that the charge under  s.332  could  not be sustained but as there  was	evidence  toestablish  a  Prima facie case under s. 323  of	 the  IndianPenal  Code,  he charged the appellant under  that  section.The appellant pleaded not guilty and(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 991.32246claimed	 to  be	 tried and submitted that  in  view  of	 theprovisions Of S. 251A(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code,  heshould	have  been acquitted and the trial for	the  offenceunder s. 323 Indian Penal Code, could not be proceeded with.The  Magistrate	 rejected the contention and  convicted	 theappellant.On  the question whether a magistrate after making an  orderof discharge under S. 251A(2) of the Criminal Procedure Codein  respect of a charge of an offence triable as  a  warrantcase  can  still  proceed to try  the  accused	for  anotheroffence, which would be made out from the police report:Held,  that an order of discharge made by the Magistrate  inexercise of the powers under sub-s. (2) Of S. 251A, does notmean  the  discharge of the accused in respect	of  all	 theoffences,  which  the facts mentioned in the  police  reportwould  make  out.   The order of  discharge  being  only  inrespect	 of the offences triable under Chapter XXI does	 notaffect	in  any way the position that  charges	of  offencestriable	 under Chapter XX also are contained in	 the  policereport.	  In  the  instant  case even  after  the  order  ofdischarge was made in respect of the offence under s. 332 Ofthe  Indian  Penal Code, the minor offence under S.  323  ofwhich the Magistrate bad also taken cognizance remained	 fortrial  as  there was no indication to  the  contrary.	Thatbeing  an  offence triable under Chapter XX of the  Code  ofCriminal  procedure  the  Magistrate  rightly  followed	 theprocedure under Chapter XX.When a Magistrate takes cognizance under s. 190(1)(b) of theCriminal   Procedure  Code,  he	 takes	cognizance  of	 alloffences,  constituted by the facts reported by	 the  PoliceOfficer and not of some only out of those offences.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 116  of1958.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated February  28,1957,of the Calcutta High Court in Criminal Revision No. 1158  of1956,  arising out of the judgment and order dated June	 26,1956,	of  the	 Additional  Chief  Presidency	 Magistrate,Calcutta, in G. R. Case No. 284 of 1956.K.   R. Chaudhury, for the appellant.B.   Sen, P. K. Ghose for P. IC Bose, for the respondent.1960.  March 1 1. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS GUPTA, J.-The question raised in this appeal is  whethera  Magistrate  after making an order of discharge  under  s.251A(2),  Cr.  P. C., in respect of a charge for an  offencetriable	 as  a	warrant case can still proceed	to  try	 theaccused	 for another offence disclosed by the police  reportand triable as a summons case.247The  case against the appellant was instituted on  a  policereport which charged him with an offence under s. 332 of theI.P.C. for " voluntarily causing hurt by means of a piece ofwood  to  the  complainant, Sisir  Kumar  Bose,	 Bailiff  ofCalcutta  Corporation and Chandra Sekhar  Bhattacharjee,  anemployee of Calcutta Corporation with the intent to  preventor  deter  those persons from discharging  their  duties  aspublic	servants." The Magistrate after	 satisfying  himselfthat the documents referred to in s. 173 Cr.  P. C. had beenfurnished  to the accused examined the documents and was  ofopinion	 after	hearing	 counsel of both  parties  that	 thecharge	under s. 332 I.P.C. could not be sustained.  He	 washowever	 of opinion that there was evidence to	establish  aprima facie case under s. 323 I.P.C. He accordingly  chargedthe  accused  under s. 323 I.P.C. examined him and  when  hepleaded	 not guilty and claimed to be tried posted the	casefor  the examination of prosecution witnesses.	On the	nexthearing date a submission was made on behalf of the  accusedthat  in view of the provisions of s. 251(2) Cr. P.  C.	 theaccused	 should have been acquitted altogether and no  trialfor the offence under s. 323 I.P.C. could be proceeded with.The  Magistrate rejected this contention and  directed	thatthe trial of the accused for an offence under s. 323  I.P.C.would proceed under Chapter XX.	 That procedure was followedand ultimately the accused was convicted under s. 323 I.P.C.and  sentenced	to pay a fine of rupees fifty  only  and  indefault to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one month.	 Theappellant's application under s. 439 Cr.  P.C. for  revisionof  this order was rejected by the High Court.	The  learnedJudge  was of opinion that " if the Magistrate finds on	 thematerials  before him that a summons case offence  has	beencommitted  by  the accused, he has, the right  and  duty  toproceed	 in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XX  ofthe  Cr.  P.C. The word " discharge " used in sub-s. (2)  ofs.  251A  Cr.  P.C. must be read as having  reference  to  adischarge in relation to the specific offence upon which theaccused	 has been charge-sheeted.  It does  not	 necessarilymean  that the accused cannot be proceeded against for	someother.248offence,  say a summons case offence, under Chapter  XX	 Cr.P.C."  in  spite  of the discharge under  s.  251A(2).	 Thepresent	 appeal	 is filed on the strength of  a	 certificategranted	 by  the  High Court under  Art.  134(1)(c)  of	 theConstitution.The  relevant provisions of ss. 251 and 251A of the Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  are in these words:" S. 251 :-In the trial of warrant-cases by Magistrates, theMagistrates shall:-(a)in  any case instituted on a police-report, follow  theprocedure specified in s. 251A; and(b)in  any other case, follow the procedure  specified	inthe other provisions of this Chapter.S. 251 A. (1)...............................................(2) If, upon  consideration of all the documents referred toin  s.	173  and making such examination,  if  any,  of	 theaccused as the Magistrate thinks necessary and after  givingthe  prosecution  and the accused an  opportunity  of  beingheard,	the  Magistrate	 considers the	charge	against	 theaccused to be groundless, he shall discharge him.(3)If,	 upon  such  documents	being	considered,   suchexamination' if any, being made and the prosecution and	 theaccused	 being	given  an opportunity of  being	 heard,	 theMagistrate is of opinion that there is ground for  presumingthat the accused has committed an offence triable under thisChapter,  which	 such Magistrate is competent  to  try,	 andwhich, in his opinion, could be adequately punished by	him,he shall frame in writing a charge against the accused."It is quite clear that, in deciding whether action shall  betaken  by him under sub-s. (2) or sub-s. (3) of s. 251A	 theMagistrate  has	 to  form an opinion whether  there  is	 anyground	for  presuming	that an	 accused  has  committed  anoffence	 triable  under	 Chapter XXI or	 there	is  no	suchground.	  When	his opinion is that there is  ground  for  apresumption  that  the	accused	 has  committed	 an  offencepunishable  under  Chapter  XXI	 Which	the  Magistrate	  iscompetent  to try and which could be adequately punished  byhim he shall proceed with the trial.  But when he forms	 theopinion	 that  there  is no ground  for	 presuming  that  anoffence249punishable  under  Chapter  XXI has been  committed  by	 theaccused	 his  duty is to discharge the	accused.   The	realquestion  is,  when  an order of discharge is  made  by	 theMagistrate in exercise of the powers under sub-s. (2) of  s.251A  is the discharge in respect of all the offences  whichthe  facts mentioned in the police report would make  out  ?The  answer  must be in the negative.  When  the  Magistratemakes an order under s. 251A(2) he does so as, after  havingconsidered  whether the charge made in the police report  ofthe  offences triable under Chapter XXI is groundless he  isof  opinion  that the charge in respect of such	 offence  isgroundless; but the order of discharge has reference only/tosuch  offences mentioned in the charge-sheet as are  triableunder  Chapter	XXI.  It very often happens that  the  factsmentioned  in  the  charge-sheet  constitute  one  or	moreoffences triable under Chapter XXI as warrant cases and alsoone  or more other offences triable under Chapter  XX.	 Theorder  of  discharge being only in respect of  the  offencestriable	 under	Chapter XXI does not affect in any  way	 theposition  that charges of offences triable under Chapter  XXalso are contained in the police report.But,  says  the	 learned  counsel  for	the  appellant,	 theMagistrate  cannot proceed- with the' trial of	these  otheroffences friable under Chapter XX because no cognizance	 hasbeen  taken of such other offences.  He contends  that	onlyafter  a fresh complaint has been made in respect  of  theseoffences  triable under Chapter XX that the  Magistrate	 cantake cognizance and then proceed to try them after followingthe  procedure prescribed by law, This argument ignores	 thefact  that  when a Magistrate takes cognizance	of  offencesunder  s.  190(1)(b) Cr.  P.C., he takes cognizance  of	 alloffences  constituted  by the facts reported by	 the  policeofficer and not only of some of such offences.	For example,if  the facts mentioned in the police report  constitute  anoffence under s. 379 I.P.C. as also one under s. 426  I.P.C.the Magistrate can take cognizance not only of the  offence,under  s. 379 but also of the offence under s. 426.  In	 thepresent	  case	 the  police  report  stated   facts   whichconstituted  an offence under s. 332 I.P.C. but these  factsnecessarily consti.250tute also a minor offence under s. 323 I.P.C. The Magistratewhen  he took cognizance under s. 190(1)(b) Cr. P.C. of	 theoffence under s. 332 I.P.C. cannot but have taken cognizancealso of the minor offence under s. 323 I.P.C.  Consequently,even after the order of discharge was made in respect of theoffence	 under s. 332 I.P.C. the minor offence under s.	 323of which he had also taken cognizance remained for trial  asthere  was  no indication to the contrary.   That  being  anoffence	 triable under Chapter XX Cr.  C.P.  the  Magistraterightly followed the procedure under Chapter XX.The appeal is accordingly dismissed.Appeal dismissed.