PETITIONER:TAHSILDAR SINGH AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1012		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 875 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC 706	 (27,28) R	    1962 SC 605	 (26) R	    1964 SC1563	 (8) R	    1970 SC1006	 (7) RF	    1972 SC1004	 (82) E	    1974 SC 308	 (1,6,10) RF	    1975 SC 667	 (95) RF	    1975 SC1758	 (18) D	    1977 SC1579	 (28) RF	    1981 SC1068	 (3)ACT:Criminal   Trial-Police	 Statements-Use	 of-Omission,	whenamounts to contradiction-Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Vof  1898), s. 162-Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872),  s.14.5.HEADNOTE:A  music performance attended by a large number	 of  personsincluding two police informers Bankey and Asa Ram was  goingon  on a platform in front of the house of one	Ram  Saroop.At  that time there was a full moon and the light of  a	 gaslamp  and several lanterns.  The informers had placed  theirguns on a cot close to the platform and one Bharat Singh wassitting	 on  that  cot.	 The accused along  with  15  or  20persons	 suddenly arrived armed with fire arms to  kill	 theinformers and stood behind a well on the southern side, fromwhere they shouted that no one should run away and  advancedfiring shots.  Two persons were killed on the spot.   BharatSingh was hit and he ran northwards pursued by the  culpritsand  was also shot dead.  The culprits turned over the	deadbodies and on seeing Bharat Singh's face they exclaimed thatAsa Ram informer had been killed.  They then passed in frontof  Ram	 Saroop's house and disappeared.  While	 going	theycarried away Bankey's gun from the cot.	 The appellants	 andseven others were sent up for trial for this occurrence.  Atthe trial the defence alleged that prosecution had developedits case.  The police statements of the eye witness did	 notmention	 the  facts  regarding the scrtitiny  of  the  (leadbodies and the presence of the gas lantern, and the  defencecounsel	 put  the following two questions  with	 respect  tothese omissions to the first eye witness produced :-1.   "	Did you state to the Investigating Officer that	 thegang rolled the dead bodies of Nathi, Saktu and Bharat Singhand  scrutinised them and did you tell him that the face  ofAsa Ram resembled with that of the deceased Bharat Singh ?"2.   " Did you state to the Investigating Officer about	 thepresence of the gas lantern ?"The  Sessions judge disallowed the questions and on  accountof  this order similar questions were not put to  the  othereye witnesses.	The Sessions judge convicted the  appellantsunder s. 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to  death.The  appellants	 appealed  to the High	Court  and  made  anapplication alleging that the Sessions judge had not allowedthe  defence counsel to put omissions amounting to  materialcontradictions to876the  eye  witnesses  and prayed that the  eye  witnesses  besummoned  so  that the questions disallowed may	 be  put  tothem.Though	the High Court held that the omissions	amounted  tocontradictions and that the Sessions judge had wrongly	dis-allowed	 cross-examination  with respect thereto,  it  foundthat even after ignoring these two circumstances there	wereother facts which showed that the culprits had come close tothe  eye witnesses and that they had unmistaken	 opportunityof identifying the appellants in the light of the full	moonand the lanterns.  The High Court accordingly dismissed	 theapplication for summoning the eye witnesses holding that  noprejudice   had	 been  caused  to  the	appellants  by	 thedisallowance   of  the	cross-examination  in	respect	  ofomissions  and also dismissed the appeals and confirmed	 theconvictions and sentences of the appellants.Held, (Per SINHA, KAPUR, SARKAR and SUBBA RAO, JJ.) that theomissions  did	not amount to contradictions -and  that	 theSessions judge was right in disallowing cross-examination inrespect	 thereof.  A statement to the police could  be	usedunder	s.  162	 of  the  Code	only  for  the	purpose	  ofcontradicting  a  statement  in the witness  box  under	 thesecond part of s. 1, Evidence Act, but it could not be	usedfor  the  purpose of cross-examining the witness  under	 thefirst  part of s. 145.	A statement made to the	 police	 butnot  reduced to writing, could not be used for any  purpose,not  even for contradiction.  It was incorrect to  say	thatall  omissions	in  regard  to	important  features  of	 theincident which were expected to be included in the statementmade before the police, should be treated as contradictions.An  omission  in  the police statement	could  amount  to  astatement  and be used as a contradiction only when  (i)  itwas  necessarily implied from the recital or recitals  foundin the statement, (ii) it was negative aspect of a  positiverecited in the statement or (iii) when the statement  beforethe  police  and  that	before the  Court  could  not  standtogether.  It was for the the trial judge to decide in	eachcase,  after  comparing the part or parts of  the  statementrecorded  by the police with that made in  the	witness-box,whether	 the recital intended to be used  for  contradictionwas one of the nature indicated above.In  Ye Ponnusami Chetty, (1933) I.L.R. 56 Mad. 475 ; In	 'YeGuruva	Vannan, I.L.R. (1944) Mad. 897; Ram Bali  v.  State,A.I.R.	1952 All 289; Badri Chaudhry v. State,	A.I.R.	1926Pat. 20, Sakhawat v. Crown, I.L.R. (1937) Nag. 277, referredto.Rudder v. The State, A.I.R. 1957 All. 239; Mohinder Singh v.Emperor, A.I.R. 1932 Lah. 103; Yusuf Mia v. Emperor,  A.I.R.1938  Pat. 579; State of M. P. v. Banshilal  Behari,  A.I.R.1958 M.P. 13, disapproved.Held,  (Per IMAM and HIDAYATULLAH, JJ.) that  the  questionsthat were put by the defence counsel were properly ruled outby the Sessions judge as they did not set up contradictions,but attempted to obtain from the witnesses versions of	whatthey877had stated to the police which were then to be contradicted.The  reference to s. I45 Evidence Act in s. 162 of the	Codeof Criminal Procedure brings in the whole of the manner	 andmachinery  Of  S. I45 and not merely the  second  part.	  Anaccused	 is entitled to cross-examine the witness under	 thefirst  part of s. 145 with respect to the police  statement.Relevant   and	 material   omissions	amount	 to    vitalcontradictions which can be established by  crossexaminationand  confronting the witness with his previous statement  tothe  police.  In the circumstances of the present case	evenif the defence had been allowed to put questions  concerningthe omissions, it would not have affected the credibility ofthe  witnesses and no prejudice was caused to appellants  bythe disallowance of the questions.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 67  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember 11, 1957, of the Allahabad High Court in  CriminalAppeal No. 1388 of 1956 and Referred Trial No. 133 of  1956,arising	 out  of the judgment and order dated  September  8,1956,  of  the	Court of the Additional	 Sessions  Judge  atEtawah in Sessions Trial Nos. 83 and 109 of 1955.Jai Gopal Sethi and R. L. Kohli, for the appellants.S.   P.	 Sinha,	 G.C.  Mathur and G.  N.  Dikshit,  for	 therespondent.1959.	May 5. The judgment of B. P. Sinha, J. L. Kapur,  A.K.  Sarkar and K. Subba Rao, JJ. was delivered by  K.  SubbaRao, J. and the judgment of Jafer Imam and M.  Hidayatullah,JJ., was delivered by M. Hidayatullah, J.SUBBA  RAO,  J.-This  appeal by	 special  leave	 raises	 thequestion  of  construction  of	s.  162,  Code	of  CriminalProcedure.   On	 June  16,1954, one  Ram  Sanehi  Mallah  ofNayapura gave a dinner at his home and a large number of hisfriends attended it.  After the dinner, at about 9 p. m.,  amusic  performance  was given in front of the house  of	 RamSanehi's  neighbour,  Ram  Sarup.  About  35  or  40  guestsassembled  in  front  of Ram Sarup's platform  to  hear	 themusic.	 The  prosecution  case is that a  large  number  ofpersons	 armed with fire-arms suddenly appeared near a	wellsituated on the southern side of the house of Ram Sarup and878opened	fire which resulted in the death of  Natthi,  BharatSingh  and  Saktu,  and injuries  to  six  persons,  namely,Hazari,	 Bankey,  Khem	Singh, Bal Kishan,  Mizaji  Lal	 andNathu.The topography of the locality where the incident took placeis given in the two site-plans, Ex.  P-57 and Ex. P-128.  Itappears	 from  the plans that the house of Ram	Sarup  faceswest, and directly in front of the main door of his house isa,  platform;  to the southwest of the	platform,  about  25paces  away, is a well with a platform of 3 feet  in  heightand about 13 feet in width around it; and to the west of theplatform  in  front of Ram Sarup's house the  audience	wereseated.The prosecution version of the sequence of events that	tookplace  on that fatal night is as follows: After the  dinner,there  was a music performance in front of the	platform  ofRam Sarup's house and a number of persons assembled there tohear the music.	 Saktu played on the Majeera while Nathu wassinging. it was a full-moon night and there were also a	 gaslamp and several lanterns.  Bankey and Asa Ram placed  theirguns  on  a cot close to the platform and Bharat  Singh	 wassitting	 on that cot.  While Bankey was among the  audience,Asa  Ram was still taking his dinner inside the	 house.	  Atabout  9  p.  m., the accused along with 15  or	 20  personsarrived from an eastern lane, stood behind the well, shoutedthat no one should run away and advanced northward from	 thewell  firing shots.  Natthi and Saktu were hit and  both  ofthem died on the spot.	Bharat Singh, who was also hit,	 rannorthward  and was pursued by some of the culprits  and	 wasshot  dead  in front of Bankey's house shown  in  the  plan.Bankey, who was also shot at and injured, took up Asa  Ram'sgun  and went up to the roof of Ram Sarup's house  wherefromhe  fired  shots at the dacoits, who were  retreating.	 AsaRam, who was luckily inside the house taking his dinner, ranup  to the roof of Ram Sarup's house and saw the  occurrencefrom  over the parapet.	 The culprits turned over the  dead-bodies	of  Saktu, Natthi and Bharat Singh  and,  on  seeingBharat Singh's face, they exclaimed that Asa Ram was killed.Thereafter, they879proceeded  northward,  passed  through	the  corner  of	 RamSarup's	 house	and  disappeared in  the  direction  of	 theChambal.   They also carried away Bankey's gun which was  onthe cot.The  motive  for the offence is stated thus :  The  culpritswere  members  of a notorious gang called  the	Man  Singh'sgang, who, it is alleged, were responsible for many  murdersand  dacoities	in and about the aforesaid  locality.	Thatgang was in league with another gang known as Charna's	gangoperating in the same region.  Asa Ram and Bankey had  actedas informers against Charna's gang, and this information ledto  the killing of Charna.  Man Singh's gang wanted to	takevengeance  on  the  said two persons; and,  having  got	 theinformation that the said two persons would be at the  musicparty on that fateful night, they organized the raid with  aview to do away with Asa Ram and Bankey.Out  of	 the  nine accused committed to	 the  Sessions,	 thelearned Sessions Judge acquitted seven, convicted  TahsildarSingh  and Shyama Mallah under 14 charges and  awarded	themvarious sentences, including the sentence of death.   Beforethe learned Sessions Judge, Tahsildar Singh took a  palpablyfalse  plea that be was not Tahsildar Singh but was  BhanwarSingh,	and much of the time of the learned  Sessions  Judgewas  taken to examine the case of the prosecution  that	 theaccused	 was really Tahsildar Singh, son of Man Singh.	 Theother accused, Shyama Mallah, though made a statement beforethe  Sub-Divisional Magistrate admitting some  facts,  whichwere  only exculpatory in nature, denied the  commission  ofthe offence before the committing Magistrate and before	 thelearned	 Sessions  Judge.   As many  as	 eight	eyewitnessesdescribed the events in detail and clearly stated that	boththe  accused  took part in the incident.  When	one  of	 thewitnesses, Bankey (P.  W., 30), was in the witness-box,	 thelearned Counsel for the accused put to him the following twoquestions in cross-examination:1.   "	Did you state to the investigating officer that	 thegang rolled the dead bodies of Natthi, Saktu and880Bharat Singh, and scrutinized them and did you tell him thatthe  face of Asa Ram resembled that of the  deceased  BharatSingh ?"2.   " Did you state to the investigating officer about	 thepresence of the gas lantern ?"In regard to the first question, the learned Sessions  Judgemade the following note:"  The	cross-examining Counsel was asked to  show  the	 lawwhich  entitles him to put this question.  He is  unable  toshow any law. 1, therefore, do not permit the question to beput unless I am satisfied."In respect of the second question, the following note is made:"  He  is also unable to show any law entitling him  to	 putthis question.	I will permit him to put it if he  satisfiesme about it."It  appears from the deposition that no other	question  onthe basis of the statement made before the police was put tothis  witness.	After his evidence was closed,	the  learnedJudge  delivered a considered order giving his	reasons	 fordisallowing the said two questions. The relevant part of theorder reads:"Therefore if there is no contradiction between his evidencein Court and his recorded statement in the diary, the lattercannot be used at all.	If a witness deposes in Court that acertain	 fact existed but had stated under section  161	 Cr.P.  C.	either that that fact had not existed  or  that	 thereverse and irreconcilable fact had existed, it is a case ofconflict  between  the	deposition  in	the  Court  and	 thestatement under section 161 Cr.	 P. C. and the latter can beused  to  contradict the former.  But if he had	 not  statedunder  section	161  anything about the fact,  there  is  noconflict and the statement cannot be used to contradict him.In some cases an omission in the statement under section 161may amount to contradiction of the deposition in Court; theyare   the   cases   where  what	 is   actually	 stated	  isirreconcilable with what is omitted and impliedly  negativesits existence."It  is	enough	to notice at this  stage  that	the  learnedSessions Judge did not by the said order rule that no.881omission  in the statement made under s. 161 of the Code  ofCriminal Procedure can be put to a witness, but stated	thatonly an omission which is irreconcilable with what is statedin evidence can be put to a witness.  The said two omissionswere not put to any of the other witnesses except to one  towhom  only  one	 of the said omissions was  put.   No  otheromissions were put in the cross-examination either to P.  W.30 or to any other witness.  The learned Sessions Judge on aconsideration  of the voluminous evidence in the  case	heldthat the guilt was brought home to the said two accused	 andconvicted  them	 as aforesaid.	Tahsildar Singh	 and  ShyamaMallah	preferred  two separate appeals to  the	 High  Courtagainst	 their convictions and sentences.  The	two  appealswere  heard  along with the reference made  by	the  learnedSessions  Judge	 under	s.  374	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  for	the confirmation of the	 sentence  of  deathawarded	 to the appellants.  The learned Judges of the	HighCourt,	after  reviewing  the entire  evidence	over  again,accepted the findings of the learned Sessions Judge and con-firmed	 the  convictions  and	sentences  passed   on	 theappellants.   Before the High Court a petition was filed  bythe appellants alleging that the learned Sessions Judge	 didnot allow the Counsel for defence to put omissions amountingto   material  contradictions  to  the	 eye-witnesses	 andtherefore the said eye-witnesses should be summoned so	thatthe said questions might be put to them.  That petition	 wasfiled  on  May	1, 1957, and on July  30,  1957,  after	 theargument  in  the  appeals  was	 closed,  the  petition	 wasdismissed.   Presumably, no attempt was made to	 press	thisapplication  either  before the appeals were  taken  up	 forargument  or  during  the course of the	 argument;  but	 thequestion raised in the petition was considered by the earnedJudges	of the High Court in their judgment.   The  judgmentdiscloses  that	 the  learned  Counsel	appearing  for	 theappellants  argued  before the High Court that	the  learnedSessions   Judge  wrongly  disallowed  the   aforesaid	 twoquestions, and the learned Judges, conceding that those	 twoquestions should have been allowed, held that the accused882were not prejudiced by the said fact.  They justified  theirconclusion by the following reasons:"We did so because among other reasons we decided to  ignorethese two circumstances and to base our findings on  mattersof  greater  certainty, namely, the fact of  the  miscreantsfiring	while  advancing, passing in front of  Ram  Swarup'splatform  and  taking  away  Bankey's  gun  from  the	cot,movements which brought them close to the eye-witnesses	 andthereby	 gave the witnesses an unmistakable  opportunity  ofseeing their faces in the light of the lanterns and the fullmoon.	 These	 factors  made	recognition   by   witnessesindependent  of any gas lantern or any scrutiny of the	deadbodies,	 so  that  these matters ceased to be  of  any	realconsequence  and  therefore made the summoning of  the	eye-witnesses before us quite unnecessary ". In the result, theydismissed  the	appeals.  The present appeal is	 by  specialleave filed against the judgment of the High Court.Learned	 Counsel  for the appellants raised  before  us	 thefollowing  points  : (1) (a).  Section 162 of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  by	 its  own  operation  attracts	 theprovisions  of	s.  145 of the Evidence Act  and  under	 thelatter	section the whole vista of cross-examination on	 thebasis  of  the	previous statement in writing  made  by	 thewitnesses  before  the police is open to the  accused  ;  toillustrate the contention: a witness can be asked whether hemade  a particular statement before the police officers;  ifhe  says " yes ", the said assertion can be contradicted  byputting	 to him an earlier statement which does not  containsuch a statement. (1) (b).  The word ',contradiction " is ofsuch  wide  connotation	 that  it  takes  in  all   materialomissions  and a Court can decide whether there is one	suchomission  as  to  amount to  contradiction  only  after	 thequestion  ,is  put, answered and the relevant  statement  orpart  of it is marked, and, therefore, no attempt should  bemade  to evolve a workable principle, but the question	mustbe left at large to be decided by the Judge concerned on thefacts of each case. (2) The High Court erred in holding thatonly  two  questions  were  intended to	 be  put  in  cross-examination to the prosecution883witnesses whereas the Advocate for the accused in. tended toput to the witnesses many other omissions to establish	thatthere  was development in the prosecution case from time  totime  but  refrained  from  doing so  in  obedience  to	 theconsidered  order  made by the learned Sessions	 Judge.	 (3)Even if only two questions were illegally disallowed, as  itwas  not  possible to predicate the possible effect  of	 thecross-examination  of the- witnesses on the basis  of  theiranswers	 to  the  said questions on  their  reliability,  itshould	be held that the accused had no opportunity to	havean  effective cross-examination of the witnesses and  there.fore  they  had	 no  fair  trial.  (4)	The  learned  Judgescommitted  an illegality in testing the credibility  of	 thewitnesses  other  than	the  witness  who  gave	 the   firstinformation report by the contents of the said report.The  arguments of the learned Counsel for the respondent  inrespect	 of each of the said contentions will be  consideredin their appropriate places.We shall proceed to consider the contentions of the  learnedCounsel	 for the appellants in the order in which they	wereaddressed:Re. (1) (a): Diverse and conflicting views were expressed byCourts	on  the	 interpretation of s. 162  of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure.  A historic retrospect of	the  sectionwill be useful to appreciate its content.  The earliest Codeis  that of 1872 and the latest amendment is that  of  1955.Formerly   Criminal  Procedure	Code  for  Courts   in	 thePresidency,  towns  and those in the mofussil were  not	 thesame.	 Criminal  Procedure  Code,  1882  (10	 of   1882),consolidated  the earlier Acts and prescribed a uniform	 lawto all Courts in India.	 It was superseded by Act 5 of	1898and substantial changes were made by Act 18 of 1923.   Sincethen the Code stands amended from time to time by many otherActs.	The  latest amendments were made by Act 26  of	1955which  received	 the assent of the President on	 August	 10,1955,  and by notification issued by the Central  Governmentits provisions came into force on and from January 1,  1956.We  are not concerned in this case with the Amending Act  of1955, but only with the Act as it stood before the amendmentof 1955.884In  Act 10 of 1872 the section corresponding to the  presents. 162 was s. 119, which read:" An officer in charge of a Police-station, or other  Policeofficer	 making	 an investigation, may	examine	 orally	 anyperson	supposed  to  be  acquainted  with  the	 facts	 andcircumstances  of the case, and may reduce into writing	 anystatement made by the person so examined.Such person shall be bound to answer all questions  relatingto such case, put him by such officer, other than  questionscriminating himself.No statement so reduced into writing shall be signed by	 theperson	making it, nor shall it be. treated as part  of	 therecord or used as evidence."This section enables a police officer to elicit	 informationfrom  persons  supposed	 to be acquainted  with	 facts,	 andpermits him to reduce into writing the answers given by suchpersons, but excludes the said statement from being  treatedas  part of the record or used as evidence.  Act 10 of	1882divided the aforesaid s. 119 into two sections and  numberedthem as ss. 161 and 162, which read:S.   161: " Any Police-officer making an investigation underthis  chapter may examine orally any person supposed  to  beacquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case, andmay reduce into writing any statement made by the person  soexamined.Such  person  shall be bound to answer truly  all  questionsrelating to such case put to him by such officer, other thanquestions  the	answers to which would have  a	tendency  toexpose	him  to	 a  criminal  charge  or  to  a	 penalty  orforfeiture."S.   162:  " No statement, other than a	 dying	declaration,made  by any person to a Police-officer in the course of  aninvestigation  under  this  chapter  shall,  if	 reduced  towriting,  be signed by the person making it, or be  used  asevidence against the accused.Nothing	 in  this  section shall be  deemed  to	 affect	 theprovisions of section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872."The  first two paragraphs of s. 119 of Act 10 of  1872	withslight modifications not relevant for the present885purpose constituted the corresponding paragraphs of s. 161of Act 10 of 1882; and the third paragraph of s.  119 of the-former	 Act,  with  some changes, was made s.	162  of	 thelatter Act.  There was not much difference between the thirdparagraph of s. 119 of the Act of 1872 and s. 162 of the Actof  1882, except that in the latter Act, it was	 made  clearthat the prohibition did not apply to a dying declaration oraffect	the provisions of s. 27 of the Indian Evidence	Act,1872 The Code of 1898 did not make any change in s. 161, nordid  it introduce any substantial change in the body  of  s.162 except taking away the exception in regard to the  dyingdeclaration  from it and putting it in the second clause  ofthat  section.	But s. 162 was amended by Act 5 of 1898	 andthe amended section read :" (1) No statement made by any person to a police-officer inthe course of an investigation under this Chapter shall,  iftaken  down in writing, be signed by the person	 making	 it,nor shall such writing be used as evidence:Provided   that,  when	any  witness  is  called   for	 theprosecution  whose statement has been taken down in  writingas  aforesaid,	the  Court  shall, on  the  request  of	 theaccused,  refer to such writing, and may then, if the  Courtthinks it expedient in the interests of justice, direct thatthe  accused  be furnished with a copy thereof	;  and	suchstatement may be used to impeach the credit of such  witnessin manner provided by the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.(2)  Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to anystatement  falling  within  the provisions  of	section	 32,clause (1), of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872."For  the  first time the proviso to s.	162  introduced	 newelements,  namely: (i) The right of the accused	 to  requestthe Court to refer to the statement of a witness reduced  towriting;  (ii)	a duty cast on the Court to  refer  to	suchwriting;  (iii)	 discretion conferred on the  Court  in	 theinterests of justice to direct that the accused be furnishedwith a copy of the statement; and (iv) demarcating the fieldwithin which such886statements can be used, namely, to impeach the credit of thewitness	 in the manner provided by the Indian Evidence	Act,1872.	From  the  standpoint of the accused,  this  was  animprovement  on	 the corresponding sections of	the  earlierCodes, for whereas the earlier Codes enacted a complete	 baragainst	 the use of such statements in evidence,  this	Codeenabled	 the accused, subject to the  limitations  mentionedtherein,  to  make use of then to impeach the  credit  of  awitness	 in the manner provided by the Indian Evidence	Act.On  the basis of the terms of s. 162 of Act 5 of  1896,	 tworival  contentions  were raised before the Courts.   It	 wasargued for the prosecution that on the strength of s. 157 ofthe Evidence Act, the right of the prosecution to prove	 anyoral  statement to contradict the testimony of	any  witnessunder that section was not taken away by s. 162 of the	Codeof  Criminal Procedure which only provided that the  writingshall  not be used as evidence.	 On the other hand,  it	 wascontended  on behalf of the accused that when the  statementof  a witness was admittedly reduced into writing, it  wouldbe unreasonable to allow any oral evidence of the  statementto be given when the writing containing the statement  couldnot  be proved.	 The judgment of Hosain, J., in the case  ofRustam	v.  King-Emperor (1) and the decisions	in  FanindraNath Banerjee v. Emperor (2), King-Emperor v. Nilakanta	 (3)and Muthukumaraswami Pillai v. King-Emperor ( (4)  representone  side of the question, and the judgment of Knox, J.,  inRustam	v. King-Emperor (1) and the observations of  Beaman,J.,  in Emperor v. Narayan (5) represent the other side.   Adivision  Bench	 of  the Bombay High  Court  in	 Emperor  v.Hanmaraddi  Bin Ramaraddi (6), after noticing the  aforesaiddecisions  on  the question, ruled that the  police  officercould be allowed to depose to what the witness had stated tohim  in the investigation for the purpose  of  corroboratingwhat  the witness had said at the trial.  In  that  context,Shah, J., observed at p. 66:(1)  (1970) 7 A L.J. 468.(3)  (1912) 35 Mad. 247.(5)  (1907) 32 Bo-. 111(2)  (1908) 36 Cal. 281(4)  (1912) 35 Mad. 397.(6)  (1915) 39 Bo-~- 58.8S7The point is not free from difficulty which is	sufficientlyreflected in the diversity of judicial opinions, bearing  onthe question."Presumably,  in view of the aforesaid conflict, to make	 thelegislative  intention clear the section was amended by	 Act18  of	1923.  Section 162 as amended by the  aforesaid	 Actreads:" (1) No statement made by any person to a police-officer inthe course of an investigation under this Chapter shall,  ifreduced into writing, be signed by the person making it; norshall any such statement or any record thereof, whether in apolice-diary or otherwise, or any part of such statement  orrecord,	 be  used  for	any  purpose  (save  as	 hereinafterprovided) at any inquiry or trial in respect of any  offenceunder  investigation  at the time when	such  statement	 wasmade:Provided   that,  when	any  witness  is  called   for	 theprosecution  in	 such inquiry or trial whose  statement	 hasbeen reduced into writing as aforesaid, the Court shall,  onthe request of the accused, refer to such writing and directthat the accused be furnished with a copy thereof, in  orderthat any part of such statement if duly proved, may be	usedto contradict such witness in the manner provided by section145 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.  When any part of suchstatement  is so used, any part thereof may also be used  inthe reexamination of such witness, but for the purpose	onlyof   explaining	 any  matter  referred	to  in	his   cross-examination:Provided,  further that, if the Court is of  --opinion	thatany  part  of  any such statement is  not  relevant  to	 thesubject-matter	 of  the  inquiry  or  trial  or  that	 itsdisclosure to the accused is not essential in the  interestsof  justice and is inexpedient in the public  interests,  itshall  record such opinion (but not the	 reasons  therefore)and  shall exclude such part from the copy of the  statementfurnished to the accused."Sub-section  (1)  of the substituted  section  attempted  tosteer  clear  of  the aforesaid conflicts  and	avoid  otherdifficulties  by the following ways: (a) Prohibited the	 useof the statement, both oral and that reduced into888writing,  from being used for any purpose at any inquiry  ortrial  in  respect of any offence under	 investigation;	 (b)while the earlier section enabled the accused to make use ofit to impeach the credit of a witness in the manner providedby  the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, the new  section  enabledhim  only to use it to contradict the witness in the  mannerprovided  by s. 145 of the said Act; (c) the said  statementcould  also be used for the purpose of only  explaining	 anymatter	referred to in his cross-examination; and (d)  whileunder  the old section a discretion was vested in the  Courtin  the matter of furnishing the accused with a copy  of  anearlier	 statement  of	a  prosecution	witness,  under	 theamended	 section, subject to the second proviso, a duty	 wascast  upon  the Court, if a request was made to	 it  by	 theaccused, to direct that the accused be furnished with a copythereof.  The effect of the amendment was that the loopholeswhich  enabled	the  use of the statement  made	 before	 thepolice	in a trial were plugged and the only exception	madewas to enable the accused to use the statement of a  witnessreduced	 into writing for a limited purpose, namely, in	 themanner provided by s. 145 of the Indian Evidence Act,  1872,and the prosecution only for explaining the matter  referredto  in his cross examination.  The scope of the limited	 usealso was clarified.  Under the old section the statement waspermitted  to be used to impeach the credit of a witness  inthe  manner provided by the Indian Evidence Act;  under	 thesaid Act, the credit of a witness could be impeached  eitherunder  s. 145 or under s. 155(3).  While the former  sectionenables	 a  witness to be cross-examined as  to	 a  previousstatement made by him in writing without such writing  beingshown to him, the latter section permits the discrediting ofthe   witness  by  proof  of  his  previous   statement	  byindependent  evidence.	If a statement in writing  could  beused to discredit a witness in the manner provided by  thosetwo  sections,	the  purpose of	 the  Legislature  would  bedefeated.   Presumably	in realisation	of  this  unexpectedconsequence, the Legislature in the amendment made it  clearthat the said statement can only be used to contradict a889witness	 in  the manner provided by s. 145 of  the  EvidenceAct.   By Act 2 of 1945, the following sub-section  (3)	 wasadded to s. 161:"  The police-officer may reduce into writing any  statementmade  to  him  in the course of an  examination	 under	thissection, and if he does so, he shall make a separate  recordof  the	 statement of each such person	whose  statement  herecords."This  subsection restored the practice obtaining before	 theyear 1923 with a view to discourage the practice adopted  bysome of the police officers of taking a condensed version ofthe  statements	 of all the witnesses or a precise  of	whateach witness said.  It is not necessary to notice in  detailthe  changes  made in s. 162 by Act 26 of  1955,  except  topoint  out that under the amendment the prosecution is	alsoallowed	 to use the statement to contradict a  witness	withthe  permission	 of  the  Court and  that  in  view  of	 theshortened  committal  procedure prescribed,  copies  of	 thestatements  of	the prosecution witnesses  made	 before	 thepolice during investigation are made available by the policeto  the	 accused before the commencement of the	 inquiry  ortrial.	 The consideration of the provisions of	 the  latestamending Act need not detain us, for the present case  fallsto  be	decided	 tinder	 the Act as  it	 stood	before	thatamendment.It  is, therefore, seen that the object of  the	 legislaturethroughout  has been to exclude the statement of  a  witnessmade  before the police during the investigation from  beingmade use of at the trial for any purpose, and the amendmentsmade from time to time were only intended to make clear	 thesaid object and to dispel the cloud cast on such  intention.The  Act of 1898 for the first time introduced an  exceptionenabling  the said statement reduced to writing to  be	usedfor  impeaching	 the  credit of the witness  in	 the  mannerprovided  by  the Evidence Act.	 As the phraseology  of	 theexception   lent  scope	 to  defeat  the  purpose   of	 thelegislature,  by the Amendment Act of 1923, the section	 wasredrafted   defining  the  limits  of  the  exception	withprecision so as to confine it only 112890to  contradict the witness in the manner provided  under  s.145  of the Evidence Act.  If one could guess the  intentionof  the legislature in framing the section in the manner  itdid in 1923, it would be apparent that it was to protect theaccused against the user of the statements of witnesses madebefore	 the  police  during  investigation  at	 the   trialpresumably  on the assumption that the said statements	werenot made under circumstances inspiring confidence.  Both thesection and the proviso intended to serve primarily the samepurpose, i.e., the interest of the accused.Braund,	 J.,  in Emperor v. Aftab Mohd.	 Khan (1)  gave	 thepurpose of s. 162 thus at p. 299:"  As it seems to us it is to protect accused  persons	frombeing  prejudiced by statements made to police officers	 whoby  reason of the fact that an investigation is known to  beon  foot  at  the time the statement is made, may  be  in  aposition  to  influence the maker of it and,  on  the  otherhand,  to protect accused persons from the prejudice at	 thehands of persons who in the knowledge that an  investigationhas already started, are prepared to tell untruths.  "A division Bench of the Nagpur High Court in Baliram TikaramMarathe v. Emperor (2) expressed a similar idea in regard tothe object underlying the section,at p. 5, thus:"  The object of the section is to protect the accused	bothagainst	  over-zealous	 police	 officers   and	  untruthfulwitnesses.  "The Judicial Committee in Pakala Narayana Swami v. The King-Emperor	 (3)  found another object underlying  -the  sectionwhen they said at p. 78:"If one had to guess at the intention of the Legislature  inframing a section in the words used, one would suppose	thatthey  had  in  mind  to encourage  the	free  disclosure  ofinformation  or to protect the person making  the  statementfrom  a	 supposed unreliability of police  testimony  as  toalleged statements or both.Section 162 with its proviso, if construed in the(1) A.I R. 1940 All. 291.      (2) A.I.R. 1945 Nag. 1.(3) (1939) L.R. 66 I. A. 66.891manner	which  we will indicate at the later  stage  of	 thejudgment, clearly achieves the said objects.The learned Counsel's first argument is based upon the words"  in the manner provided by s. 145 of the  Indian  EvidenceAct,  1872  "  found  in s. 162	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure.   Section  145 of the Evidence Act, it  is  said,empowers  the  accused to put all relevant  questions  to  awitness before his attention is called to those parts of thewriting	 with a view to contradict him.	 In support of	thiscontention  reliance  is placed upon the  judgment  of	thisCourt  in Bhagwan Singh v. The State of Punjab	(1).   Bose,J.,  describes the procedure to be followed to contradict  awitness under s. 145 of the Evidence Act thus at p. 819:"  Resort  to  section 145 would only be  necessary  if	 thewitness	 denies that he made the former statement.  In	thatevent,	it would be necessary to prove that he did,  and  ifthe  former statement was reduced to writing,  then  section145 requires that his attention must be drawn to those partswhich  are to be used for contradiction.  But that  positiondoes not arise when the witness admits the former statement.In  such  a  case all that is necessary is to  look  to	 theformer	statement  of which no further	proof  is  necessarybecause of the admission that it was made.  "It is unnecessary to refer to other cases wherein a  similarprocedure is suggested for putting questions under s. 145 ofthe Indian Evidence Act, for the said decision of this Courtand similar decisions were not considering the procedure  ina  case	 where the statement in writing was intended  to  beused for contradiction under s. 162 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure.  Section 145 of the Evidence Act is in two parts:the  first  part  enables the  accused	to  cross-examine  awitness	 as to previous statement made by him in writing  orreduced	 to writing to without such writing being  shown  tohim; the second part deals with a situation where the cross-examination  assumes the shape of contradiction :  in  otherwords,	both  parts deal with cross-examination;  the  firstpart   with   cross-examination	 other	than   by   way	  ofcontradiction, and the(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 812.892second with cross-examination by way of contradiction  only.The  procedure	prescribed  is that, if it  is	intended  tocontradict  a  witness by the writing, his  attention  must,before	the writing can be proved, be called to those  partsof it which are to be used for the purpose of  contradictinghim.   The  proviso  to	 s. 162	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  only	 enables  the accused to make  use  of	suchstatement to contradict a witness in the manner provided  bys.  145 of the Evidence Act.  It would be doing violence  tothe language of the proviso if the said statement be allowedto  be	used for the purpose of	 cross-examining  a  witnesswithin	the  meaning  of the first part of  s.	145  of	 theEvidence Act.  Nor are we impressed by the argument that  itwould not be possible to invoke the second part of s. 145 ofthe  Evidence Act without putting relevant  questions  underthe  first part thereof.  The difficulty is  more  imaginarythan  real.  The second part of s. 145 of the  Evidence	 Actclearly	 indicates the simple procedure to be followed.	  Toillustrate:  A	says in the witness-box that B stabbed	C  ;before	the  police  he bad stated that	 D  stabbed  C.	 Hisattention  can be drawn to that part of the  statement	madebefore	the  police which contradicts his statement  in	 thewitness-box.   If  he  admits  his  previous  statement,  nofurther	 proof	is  necessary; if he  does  not	 admit,	 thepractice generally followed is to admit it subject to  proofby  the	 police officer.  On the other hand,  the  proceduresuggested by the learned Counsel may be illustrated thus: Ifthe witness is asked " did you say before the police-officerthat  you saw a gas light ? " and he answers " yes  ",	thenthe statement which does not contain such recital is put  tohim   as   contradiction.   This  procedure   involves	 twofallacies:  one	 is it enables the accused to  elicit  by  aprocess of cross-examination what the witness stated  beforethe  police-officer.   If a police-officer did	not  make  arecord of a witness's statement, his entire statement  couldnot  be	 used for any purpose, whereas if  a  police-officerrecorded  a  few  sentences,  by  this	process	 of   cross-examination,  the witness's oral statement could be  broughton record.  This procedure,893therefore,  contravenes the express provision of s.  162  ofthe  Code.  The second fallacy is that by  the	illustrationgiven by the learned Counsel for the appellants there is  noself-contradiction  of	the primary statement  made  in	 thewitness-box,  for the witness has yet not made on the  standany  assertion	at all which can serve as  the	basis.	 Thecontradiction,	under the section, should be between what  awitness	 asserted  in  the witness-box and  what  he  statedbefore	the police-officer, and not between what he said  hehad  stated before the police-officer and what	he  actuallymade  before him.  In such a case the question could not  beput at all: only questions to contradict can be put and	 thequestion  here	posed  does not contradict it  leads  to  ananswer which is contradicted by the police statement.	Thisargument  of  the learned Counsel based upon s. 145  of	 theEvidence  Act  is,  therefore,	not  of	 any  relevance	  inconsidering the express provisions of s. 162 of the Code  ofCriminal Procedure.This  leads us to the main question in the case,  i.e.,	 theinterpretation of s. 162 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure.The  cardinal rule of construction of the, provisions  of  asection	 with  a proviso is succinctly stated  in  Maxwell'sInterpretation of Statutes, 10th Edn., at p. 162 thus:"  The proper course is to apply the broad general  rule  ofconstruction,  which is that a section or enactment must  beconstrued as a whole, each portion throwing light if need beon the rest.The   true   principle	undoubtedly  is,  that	 the   soundinterpretation and meaning of the statute, on a view of	 theenacting  clause,  saving  clause, and	proviso,  taken	 andconstrued together is to prevail."Unless the words are clear, the Court should not so construethe proviso as to attribute an intention to the	 legislatureto give with one hand and take away with another.  To put itin  other  words,  a  sincere  attempt	should	be  made  toreconcile  the enacting clause and the proviso and to  avoidrepugnancy between the two.As  the	 words in the section declare the intention  of	 thelegislature, we shall now proceed to construe the894section	 giving	 the words used therein	 their	natural	 andordinary sense.The  object  of	 the  main section as  the  history  of	 itslegislation  shows  and	 the decided cases  indicate  is  toimpose	a  general  bar against the use	 of  statement	madebefore	the  police and the enacting clause in	clear  termssays  that  no	statement made by any  person  to  a  policeofficer or any record thereof, or any part of such statementor record, be used for any purpose.  The words are clear andunambiguous.   The  proviso  engrafts an  exception  on	 thegeneral	 prohibition  and  that is, the	 said  statement  inwriting	 may be used to contradict a witness in	 the  mannerprovided  by  s. 145 of the Evidence Act.  We  have  alreadynoticed	 from the history of the section that  the  enactingclause	was  mainly  intended to protect  the  interests  ofaccused.   At  the  stage of  investigation,  statements  ofwitnesses  are	taken in a haphazard  manner.	The  police-officer	 in  the course of his investigation  finds  himselfmore  often  in the midst of an excited crowd and  label  ofvoices raised all round.  In such an atmosphere, unlike thatin a Court of Law, be is expected to hear the statements  ofwitnesses and record separately the statement of each one ofthem.  Generally he records only a summary of the statementswhich  appear to him to be relevant.  These statements	are,therefore,  only a summary of what a witness says  and	veryoften perfunctory.  Indeed, in view of the aforesaid  facts,there  is  a statutory prohibition against  police  officerstaking	the  signature of the person making  the  statement,indicating thereby that the statement is not intended to  bebinding	 on the witness or an assurance by him that it is  acorrect statement.At  the	 same  time, it being the  earliest  record  of	 thestatement  of  a  witness  soon	 after	the  incident,	 anycontradiction  found therein would be of immense help to  anaccused	 to discredit the testimony of a witness making	 thestatement.   The  section was, therefore,  conceived  in  anattempt	 to find a happy via media, namely, while it  enactsan absolute bar against the statement made before a  police-officer	 being used for any purpose whatsoever,	 it  enablesthe accused to rely895upon it for a limited purpose of contradicting a witness  inthe manner provided by s. 145 of the Evidence Act by drawinghis  attention	to  parts  of  the  statement  intended	 forcontradiction.	 It  cannot be used for corroboration  of  aprosecution  or a defence witness or even a  Court  witness.Nor  can it be used for contradicting a defence or  a  Courtwitness.  Shortly stated, there is a general bar against itsuse  subject to a limited exception in the interest  of	 theaccused, and the exception cannot obviously be used to crossthe bar.If  the	 provisions  of the section  are  construed  in	 theaforesaid  back	 'ground,  much	 of  the  difficulty  raiseddisappears.   Looking  at  the express words  used  in	tilesection,  two  sets  of words stand  out  prominently  whichafford	the key to the intention of the	 legislature.	Theyare  :	" statement in writing ", and " to contradict  ".  "Statement " in its dictionary meaning is the act of  statingor  reciting.  Prima  facie a statement cannot	take  in  anomission.   A  statement cannot include that  which  is	 notstated.	  But  very often to make a  statement	sensible  orself-consistent,  it becomes necessary to imply words  whichare not actually in the statement.  Though something is	 notexpressly  stated,  it is necessarily implied from  what  isdirectly  or expressly stated.	To illustrate: ' A'  made  astatement  previously  that he saw ' B ' stabbing ' C  '  todeath;	but  before  the Court he deposed that	he  saw	 'B'and   'D'  stabbing ' C' to death: the Court can  imply	 theword "only " after ' B ' in the statement before the police.Sometimes  a positive statement may have a  negative  aspectand  a	negative  one a positive aspect.   Take	 an  extremeexample	 : if a witness states that a man is dark,  it	alsomeans  that  he	 is not fair.	Though	the  statement	madedescribes positively the colour of a skin, it is implicit inthat  statement itself that it is not of any  other  colour.Further,  there	 are  occasions	 when  we  come	 across	 twostatements  made by the same person at different  times	 andboth of them cannot stand or co-exist.	There is an inherentrepugnancy  between the two and, therefore, if one is  true,the other must be false.  On one occasion a person says896that when he entered the room, he saw ' A' shooting 'B' deadwith  a gun; on another occasion the same person  says	thatwhen  he entered the room he saw 'C' stabbing ' B '  dead  ;both the statements obviously cannot stand together, for, ifthe  first statement is true, the second is false  and	viceversa.	 The doctrine of recital by  necessary	implication,the  concept of the negative or the positive aspect  of	 thesame recital, and the 'principle of inherent repugnancy, mayin  one sense rest on omissions, but, by  construction,	 thesaid omissions must be deemed to be part of the statement inwriting.   Such omissions are not really omissions  strictlyso  called and the statement must be deemed to contain	themby  implication.  A statement, therefore, in our  view,	 notonly  includes	what is expressly stated therein,  but	alsowhat is necessarily implied therefrom."  Contradict " according to the Oxford Dictionary means  toaffirm	to  the contrary.  Section 145 of the  Evidence	 Actindicates the manner in which contradiction is brought	out.The  cross-examining Counsel shall put the part or parts  ofthe  statement which affirms the contrary to what is  statedin  evidence.	This indicates that there  is  something  inwriting	 which can be set against another statement made  inevidence.  If the statement before the police-officer-in thesense  we have indicated-and the statement in  the  evidencebefore the Court are so inconsistent or irreconcilable	witheach other that both of them cannot co-exist, it may be saidthat one contradicts the other.It  is	broadly	 contended that	 a  statement  includes	 allomissions  which are material and are such as a	 witness  isexpected  to  say  in the normal  course.   This  contentionignores the intention of the legislature expressed in s. 162of  the Code and the nature of the non-evidentiary value  ofsuch  a	 statement,  except  for  the  limited	purpose	  ofcontradiction.	Unrecorded statement is completely excluded.But  recorded  one  is used for a  specified  purpose.	 Therecord	of a statement, however perfunctory, is	 assumed  togive  a	 sufficient  guarantee to  the	correctness  of	 thestatement made, but if words not recorded are brought in  bysome fiction, the object of the section would be897defeated.   By	that process, if a part of  a  statement  isrecorded, what was not stated could go in on the sly in	 thename  of contradiction, whereas if the entire statement	 wasnot  recorded, it would be excluded.  By doing so, we  wouldbe circumventing the section by ignoring the only  safeguardimposed by the legislature, viz., that the statement  shouldhave been recorded.We  have already pointed out that under the amending Act  of1955,  the prosecution is also allowed to use the  statementto  contradict a witness with the permission of	 the  Court.If  construction of the section as suggested by the  learnedCounsel	 for  the appellants be	 accepted,  the	 prosecutionwould  be able to bring out in the  cross-examination  factsstated by a witness before a police-officer but not recordedand  facts  omitted  to be stated by  him  before  the	saidofficer.   This	 result is not decisive on the	question  ofconstruction, but indicates the unexpected repercussions  ofthe argument advanced to the prejudice of the accused.As  s.	162 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure	enables	 theprosecution  in the reexamination to rely upon any  part  ofthe  statement used by the defence to contradict a  witness,it  is	contended  that	 the  construction  of	the  sectionaccepted  by us would lead to an anomaly, namely,  that	 theaccused cannot ask the witness a Single question, which doesnot amount to contradiction whereas the prosecution,  takingadvantage  of  a  single contradiction relied  upon  by	 theaccused,  can reexamine the witness in regard to any  matterreferred to in his cross-examination, whether it amounts  toa contradiction or not.	 I do not think there is any anomalyin  the	 situation.  Section 145 of the Evidence  Act  dealswith  cross-examination in respect of a	 previous  statementmade by the witness.  One of the modes of  cross-examinationis  by contradicting the witness by referring him  to  thoseparts of the writing which are inconsistent with his presentevidence.   Section  162, while confining the right  to	 theaccused	 to  cross-examine the witness in the  said  manner,enables the prosecution to reexamine the witness to  explain113898the  matters  referred to in  the  cross-examination.	Thisenables the prosecution to explain the alleged contradictionby  pointing  out that if a part of the	 statement  used  tocontradict  be	read in the context of any  other  part,  itwould  give  a different meaning; and if so read,  it  wouldexplain	 away the alleged contradiction.  We think that	 theword  "	 cross-examination " in the last line of  the  firstproviso	 to s. 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure  cannotbe understood to mean the entire gamut of  cross-examinationwithout	 reference to the limited scope of the proviso,	 butshould	 be  confined  only  to	 the  cross-examination	  bycontradiction allowed by the said proviso.The  conflict  of  judicial  opinion  on  this	question  isreflected in the decisions of different High Courts in	thiscountry.   One of the views is tersely put by Burn J. in  Inre Ponnusami Chetty (1) at p. 476:"Whether  it  is  considered  as  a  question  of  logic  orlanguage,  " omission " and " contradiction " can  never  beidentical.   If a proposition is stated,  any  contradictoryproposition  must  be  a statement  of	some  kind,  whetherpositive  or negative.	To " contradict " means to  "  speakagainst " or in one word to " gainsay ". It is absurd to saythat you can contradict by keeping silence.  Silence may  befull  of  significance,	 but  it is not	 "  diction  ",	 andtherefore  it  cannot be "  contradiction"Considering  the provisions of s. 145 of the Evidence	Act,the learned Judge observed thus at p. 477:"  It  would be in my opinion sheer misuse of words  to	 saythat  you are contradicting a witness by the  writing,	whenwhat you really want to do is to contradict him by  pointingout  omissions from the writing.  I find myself in  completeagreement with the learned Sessions Judge of Ferozepore	 whoobserved  that	" a witness cannot be  confronted  with	 theunwritten record of an unmade statement "."The  learned  Judge  gives  an illustration  of	 a  case  ofapparent omission which really is, a contradiction, i.e.,  acase where a witness stated under s. 162 of the Code that hesaw three persons beating a man and later(1)  (1933) I.L.R. 56 Mad. 475.899stated in Court that four persons were beating the same man.This  illustration indicates the trend of the  Judge's	mindthat  he was prepared to treat an omission of that  kind  aspart of the statement by necessary implication.	 A  DivisionBench of the 'Madras High Court followed this judgment in Inre  Guruva Vannan (1).	In that judgment, Mockett, J.,	madethe following observation at p. 901 :"  I  respectfully agree with the judgment of Burn,  J.,  inPonnuswamy Chetty v. Emperor (2) in which the learned  Judgeheld  that  a  statement under section 162 of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure cannot be filed in order to show that  awitness is making statements in the witness box which he didnot  make to the police and that bare omission cannot  be  acontradiction.	The learned judge points out that, whilst  abare  omission	can never be a	contradiction,	a  so-calledomission in a statement may sometimes amount to a contradic-tion,  for  example, when to the police	 three	persons	 arestated	to  have been the criminals and later at  the  trialfour are mentioned."The Allahabad High Court in Ram Bali v. State expressed	 theprinciple with its underlying reasons thus at p. 294:"  Witness  after witness was cross-examined  about  certainstatements made by him in the deposition but not to be foundin  his statement under s. 162, Criminal P. C.	A  statementrecorded  by  the police under s. 162 can be  used  for	 onepurpose	 and one purpose only and that of contradicting	 thewitness.  Therefore if there is no contradiction between hisevidence  in Court and his recorded statement in the  diary,the  latter cannot be used at all.  If a witness deposes  inCourt  that a certain fact existed but had stated  under  s.162 either that fact had not existed or that the reverse andirreconcilable	fact  had existed it is a case	of  conflictbetween the deposition in the Court and the statement  unders. 162 and the latter can be used to contradict the  former.But  if	 he had not stated under s. 162 anything  about	 thefact there is no conflict and the(1) I.L.R. (1944) Mad. 897.  (2) (1933) I L.R. 56 Mad. 475.	  (3) A.I.R. 1952 All. 280.900statement  cannot be used to contradict him.  In some  casesan  omission  in the statement under s. 162  may  amount  tocontradiction of the deposition in Court ;they are the caseswhere what is actually stated is irreconcilable with what isomitted and impliedly negatives its existence."At  a later stage of the judgment, the learned	Judges	laiddown  the  following  two  tests  to  ascertain	 whether   aparticular   omission  amounts	to  contradiction:  (i)	  anomission  is  not a contradiction unless  what	is  actuallystated contradicts what is omitted to be said; and (ii)	 thetest to find out whether an omission is contradiction or notis to see whether one can point to any sentence or assertionwhich  is irreconcilable with the deposition in	 the  Court.The said observations are in accord with that of the  MadrasHigh Court in In re Guruva Vannan (1).	The Patna High Courtin  Badri Chaudhry v. King-Emperor (2) expressed  a  similarview.	At  p. 22, Macpherson, J., analysing s. 162  of	 theCode  of  Criminal Procedure, after its amendment  in  1923,observed :" The first proviso to section 162 (1) makes an exception infavour of the accused but it is an exception most  jealouslycircumscribed under the proviso itself.	 " Any part of	suchstatement " which has been reduced to writing may in certainlimited circumstances be used to contradict the witness	 whomade it.  The limitations are strict: (1) Only the statementof a prosecution witness can be used; and (2) only if it hasbeen  reduced to writing ; (3) only a part of the  statementrecorded  can be used ; (4) such part must be duly proved  ;(5)  it	 must  be a contradiction of  the  evidence  of	 thewitness in Court; (6) it must be used as provided in s. 145,Evidence  Act,	that  is,  it can only	be  used  after	 theattention  of the witness has been drawn to it or  to  thoseparts  of it which it is intended to use for the purpose  ofcontradiction, and there are others.  Such a statement whichdoes  not contradict the testimony of the witness cannot  beproved in any circumstances and it is not permissible to usethe  recorded statement as a whole to show that the  witnessdid not say something to the investigating officer."(1) I.L.R. (1944) Mad. 897.(2) A.I.R. 1926 Pat. 20.901In Sakhawat v. Crown (1) much to the same effect was  statedat p. 284:" The section (s. 162) provides that such statements can  beused  only for the purpose of contradiction.   Contradictionmeans  the setting up of one statement against	another	 andnot  the setting up of a statement against nothing  at	all.An illustration would make the point clear.  If a witness inCourt  says  'I saw A running away' he may  be	contradictedunder section 162 by his statement to the police 'I did	 notsee  A running away'.  But by proving an omission  what	 thelearned	 Counsel contradicts is not the statement 'I  saw  Arunning away' but the statement 'I stated to the police thatI  saw' A running away'.  As section 162 does not allow	 thewitness	 to  depose ' I stated to the police that  I  saw  Arunning	 away  ' it follows that there can be no  basis	 foreliciting  the omission.  Our argument is further  fortifiedby   the   use	 of   the  words  "   any   part   of	suchstatement ............... may be used to contradict." It  isnot said that whole statement may be used.  But in order  toprove an omission the whole statement has to be so used,  ashas  been  done in the present case."The  contrary  view  isexpressed in the following proposition"  An  omission may amount to Contradiction  if	 the  matteromitted	 was one which the witness would have been  expectedto  mention  and the Sub-Inspector to make note	 of  in	 theordinary course.  Every detail is expected to be noted."This  proposition,  if	we  may	 say  so,  couched  in	widephraseology enables the trial Judge to put into the mouth ofa witness things which he did not state at an earlier  stageand   did  not	intend	to  say,  oil  purely	hypotheticalconsiderations.	  The  same  idea in  a	 slightly  differentlanguage was expressed by Bhargava and Sahai, JJ., in Rudderv. The State (2) at p. 240:"  There  are, however, certain omissions  which  amount  tocontradictions	and have been treated as such by this  Courtas  well  as  other  Courts  in	 this  country.	  Those	 areomissions relating to facts which(1) I.L.R. (1937) Nag. 277.(2) A.I.R. 1957 All. 239.902are  expected  to be included in the  statement	 before	 thepolice	by  a person who is giving a narrative of  what	 'hesaw, on the ground that they relate to important features ofthe incident about which the deposition is made."A  similar view was expressed in Mohinder Singh	 v.  Emperor(1), Yusuf Mia v. Emperor (2), and State of M.	  P.	  v.Banshilal Behari (3).Reliance is placed by the learned Counsel for the appellantson a statement of law found in " Wigmore on Evidence ", Vol.III,  3rd Edn., at p. 725.  In discussing under the  head  "what  amounts to a Self-contradiction ", the learned  authortersely	 describes  a self-contradiction  in  the  followingterms:"............ it is not a mere difference of statement	thatsuffices; nor yet is an absolute oppositeness essential;  itis an inconsistency that is required."The learned author further states, at p. 733 :"  A  failure  to assert a fact, when  it  would  have	beennatural	 to assert it, amounts in effect to an assertion  ofthe non-existence of the fact."The said statement is no doubt instructive, but it cannot bepressed	 into service to interpret the provisions of s.	 162of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  In America, there is  noprovision  similar  to	s.  162 of the	Code.	It  is	not,therefore,  permissible, or even possible, to interpret	 theprovisions  of	a  particular Act, having  regard  to  strayobservations in a text-book made in a different context.It is not necessary to multiply cases.	The two	 conflictingviews  may be briefly stated thus: (i) omissions, unless  bynecessary implication be deemed to be part of the statement,cannot	be  used  to contradict the statement  made  in	 thewitness-box;  and (ii) they must be in regard  to  importantfeatures  of the incident which are expected to be  includedin  the	 statement  made  before  the  police.	 The   firstproposition  not  only	carries out  the  intention  of	 thelegislature but is also in accord with the plain meaning  ofthe  words used in the section.	 The second proposition	 notonly stretches(1) A.I.R. 1932 Lah. 103.      (2) A.I.R. 1938 Pat. 579.	   (3) A.I.R. 1936 M.P. 13.903the  meaning of the word " statement " to a breaking  point,but   also   introduces	 an   uncertain	  element,   namely,ascertainment of what a particular witness would have statedin  the	 circumstances	of a particular case  and  what	 thepolice officer should have recorded.  When the section	saysthat  the  statement  is  to  be  used	to  contradict	 thesubsequent  version  in	 the  witness-box,  the	 propositionbrings in, by construction, what he would have stated to thepolice within the meaning of the word " statement ". Such  aconstruction is not permissible.From  the  foregoing discussion the  following	propositionsemerge: (1) A. statement in writing made by a witness beforea police officer in the course of investigation can be	usedonly to contradict his statement in the witness-box and	 forno  other purpose; (2) statements not reduced to writing  bythe  police  officer cannot be used for	 contradiction;	 (3)though	a particular statement is not expressly recorded,  astatement  that can be deemed to be part of  that  expresslyrecorded can be used for contradiction, not because it is anomission strictly so-called but because it is deemed to formpart  of  the  recorded statement; (4)	such  a	 fiction  ispermissible  by	 construction only in  the  following  threecases:	(i) when a recital is necessarily implied  from	 therecital	 or recitals found in the statement ;  illustration:in  the	 recorded statement before the	police	the  witnessstates	that  he saw A stabbing B at a particular  point  oftime,  but  in the witness-box he says that he saw A  and  Cstabbing  B  at	 the same point of time;  in  the  statementbefore	the police the word " only " can be  implied,  i.e.,the witness saw A only stabbing B; (ii) a negative aspect ofa  positive  recital in a statement;  illustration:  in	 therecorded statement before the police the witness says that adark  man stabbed B, but in the witness-box he says  that  afair man stabbed B; the earlier statement must be deemed  tocontain	 the  recital not only that the culprit was  a	darkcomplexioned   man  but	 also  that  be	 was  not  of	faircomplexion;  and (iii) when the statement before the  policeand   that   before  the  Court	  cannot   stand   together;illustration: the witness says in the recorded904statement before the police that A after stabbing B ran awayby a northern lane, but in the Court he says that immediatlyafter stabbing he ran away towards the southern lane; as  hecould  not  have run away immediately  after  the  stabbing,i.e.,  at the same point of time, towards the northern	laneas  well as towards the southern lane, if one  statement  istrue, the other must necessarily be false.The aforesaid examples are not intended to be exhaustive butonly illustrative.  The same instance may fall under one  ormore  heads.   It is for the trial Judge to decide  in	eachcase'  after  comparing the part or parts of  the  statementrecorded by the police with that made in the witness-box, togive  a ruling, having regard to the  aforesaid	 principles,whether	 the recital intended to be used  for  contradictionsatisfies the requirements of law.The  next point is what are the omissions in  the  statementbefore	the police which the learned Sessions Judge did	 notallow the accused to put to the witnesses for  contradictingtheir	present	 version.   The	 learned  Counsel  for	 theappellants contends that the accused intended to put to	 thewitnesses the following omissions, but they did not do so asthe learned Sessions Judge disallowed the two questions	 putto  P. W. 30 and made a considered order giving his  reasonsfor doing so, and that the learned Counsel thought it propernot  to put the same questions or other questions in  regardto  omissions  to P. W. 30 or to the  other  witnesses	thatfollowed  him.	The said omissions are: (1) The	 warning  bythe members of the gang on their arrival to the audience  atthe  music  party  not to stir from their  places;  (2)	 thepresence of a gas lantern;(3) the  chase of Bharat Singh  bythe assailants; (4) the	 scrutiny of the dead bodies by	 thegang; and (5)  the return of the gang in front of the  houseof Bankey.  The learned Counsel for the respondent  conteststhis  fact and argues that only two omissions,	namely,	 thepresence  of  a	 gas-lantern and the scrutiny  of  the	deadbodies by the gang, were put in the cross-examination of  P.W.  30 and no other omissions were put to him or  any  otherwitness, and that indeed the order905of  the	 learned Sessions Judge did not	 preclude  him	fromputting	 all the omissions to the witnesses and	 taking	 thedecision   of	the   Judge  on	 the   question	  of   theiradmissibility.	 He  further contends that even	 before	 thelearned	 Judges	 of  the High Court  the  Advocate  for	 theappellants  only made a grievance of hi,,; not	having	beenallowed to put the aforesaid two omissions and did not arguethat he intended to rely upon other omissions but did not doso  as	he  thought that the learned  Sessions	Judge  woulddisallow  them pursuant to his previous order.	 Before	 theHigh Court an application was filed for summoning eight eye-witnesses on the ground that the learned Sessions Judge	 didnot  allow  the	 Counsel for defence to	 put  the  omissionsamounting to material contradiction to them, but no  mentionwas  made  in that application of the  number  of  omissionswhich  the accused intended to put to the  eye-witnesses  ifthey  were summoned.  That application was filed on  May  1,1957,  but  no attempt was made to get a  decision  on	thatapplication  before the arguments were	heard.	 Presumably,the   Court  as	 well  as  the	parties	 thought  that	 theapplication  could  more conveniently be disposed  of  afterhearing	 the  arguments.   On July 30,	1957)  1  after	 theappellants were fully heard, that application was  dismissedand the detailed reasons for dismissing it were given in thejudgment,  which was delivered on September 11,	 1957.	 Thejudgment  of  the learned Judges of the High  Court  clearlyindicates  that	 what was argued before them  was  that	 twoomissions  sought to be put to P. W. 30 were disallowed	 andtherefore the accused did not put the said omissions to	 theother  witnesses.   It was not contended on  behalf  of	 theaccused	 that other omissions were intended to be  used	 forcontradiction,	but  were not put to the  witnesses  as	 theAdvocate  thought that in view of the order of	the  learnedSessions Judge they would not be allowed automatically.	 Thelearned Judges held that the said two omissions amounted  tomaterial  contradiction and that the learned Sessions  Judgewas wrong in disallowing them, but they ignored those114906two  circumstances  and based their findings on	 matters  ofgreater certainty.  If really the Judges had made a  mistakein appreciating the arguments of the learned Counsel for theappellants in the context of omissions, one would expect theaccused	 to  mention  the said	fact  prominently  in  theirapplication  for  special leave.  Even if  they	 omitted  tomention that fact in the application for special leave, theycould have filed an affidavit sworn to by the Advocate,	 whoappeared  for  them before the learned Judges  of  the	HighCourt,	mentioning  the fact that in spite of  the  argumentspecifically  directed	to the other omissions	the  learnedJudges	by  mistake  or over-sight  failed  to	notice	thatargument.  The learned Counsel who argued before us did	 notargue before the High Court, and, therefore, obviously he isnot  in	 a position to assert that the	Judges	committed  amistake in omitting to consider the argument advanced beforethem.  But he made strenuous attempts before us to  persuadeus  to hold that there must have been a mistake.   He  wouldsay that the learned Counsel had in fact relied upon all theaforesaid omissions in support of his contention that  therewas development of the case of the prosecution from time  totime  and therefore he must have also relied upon  the	saidomissions in the context of the statements made under s. 162of  the Code of Criminal 'Procedure; on the other hand,	 thefact  that  the learned Judges considered  all	the  allegedomissions  in connection with the said contention  and	onlyconsidered  two omissions in regard to the contention  basedon  s.	162 of the Code is indicative of the fact  that	 thelearned	 Counsel,  for reasons best known to  him,  did	 notthink  fit  to	rely upon all the  alleged  omissions.	 Thedeposition of P.W. 30 also shows that only two omissions  inthe  statement before the police, viz., the existence  of  agas-lantern and the scrutiny of the dead bodies by the gang,were  put  to  him  in	cross-examination  and	the  learnedSessions Judge disallowed those questions on the ground thatthe  learned Counsel was not able to `how any law  entitlinghim to put the said questions.	Though the witness was	exa-mined at some length no other alleged omissions in907the  statement	before the police were sought to be  put  tohim.   It  would be seen from the short order  made  by	 thelearned	 Sessions  Judge  at the time each one	of  the	 twoquestions were put, that the learned Sessions Judge did	 notgive  a	 general  ruling that no omissions  in	a  statementbefore	the police could be put to a witness.	The  rulingswere  given,  having regard to the nature of  the  omissionsrelied upon.  But after the entire evidence of P. W. 30	 wasclosed, the learned Sessions Judge gave a considered  order.Even  in  that order, he did not rule out all  omissions  asinadmissible,  but clearly expressed the view that  if	whatwas  stated in the witness-box was irreconcilable with	whatwas omitted to be stated in the statement, it could go in asmaterial contradiction.	 Even after this order, it was open`to  the appellants to bring out all such omissions,  but  noattempt was made by them to do go.  These circumstances alsosupport	 the  impression of the learned Judges of  the	HighCourt  that what was argued before them was only in  respectof the two specified omissions put to P. W. 30 in his cross-examination.   We, therefore, hold that only  two  omissionsrelating  to  the  existence  of  the  gas-lantern  and	 thescrutiny of the faces of the deceased by the appellants wereput  to	 P. W. 30 and were intended to be put to  the  otherwitnesses,  but were not so done on the basis of the  rulinggiven by the Court.Would those two omissions satisfy the test laid down by us ?The  witness stated in the Court that there was	 a  gas-lampand that some of the miscreants scrutinised the faces of thedead bodies.  In their statements before the police they didnot  mention  the said two facts and some of  the  witnessesstated that there were lanterns.  Taking the gas-lamp first:the scene of occurrence was not a small room but one spread-over from the well to Bankey's house.  From that omission inthe  statement it cannot necessarily be implied	 that  therewas  no	 gas-lamp in any part of the  locality	wherein	 theincident  took	place;	nor  can it be	said  that,  as	 thewitnesses  stated  that there were lanterns,  they  must  bedeemed	to have stated that there was no gas-lamp,  for	 theword " lantern is908comprehensive  enough to take in a gas-lantern.	 It is	alsonot  possible to state that the statements made	 before	 thepolice and those made before the Court cannot co-exist,	 forthere  is  no  repugnancy between the two, as  even  on	 theassumption  that  lantern excludes a gas-lantern,  both	 canexist in the scene of occurrence.  The same can be said alsoabout the scrutiny of the faces of the dead bodies.  In	 thestatements  before the police, the movements of	 the  appel-lants  were  given.   It was stated that they  shot  at	 thepeople	and  decamped  with the gun of	Bharat	Singh.	 Thepresent	 evidence that in the course of their pursuit,	theylooked	at the faces of two of the dead bodies does  not  inany  way  contradict  the previous versions,  for  the	saidincident  would	 fit  in with the  facts  contained  in	 theearlier	 statements.  The appellants could have shot at	 theaudience, pursued them, taken the gun of Bharat Singh and ontheir way scrutinised the dead bodies.	The alleged omissiondoes not satisfy any of the principles stated by us.In  this view, it is unnecessary to express our	 opinion  onthe question whether, if the said two omissions amounted  tocontradiction  within the meaning of s. 162 of the  Code  ofCriminal   Procedure,  the  appellants	were  in   any	 wayprejudiced in the matter of their trial.The   last  contention	of  the	 learned  Counsel  for	 theappellants  is	that the learned Judges of  the	 High  Courtacted  illegally  in testing the veracity of  the  witnesseswith  reference	 to the contents of  the  first	 informationreport.	  A perusal of the judgment of the High Court  showsthat the Advocate for the appellants contended before  them,inter  alia,  that the witnesses should not be	believed  astheir  present	version	 was  inconsistent  with  the  firstinformation  report.   The learned Judges assumed  that	 thesaid  process  was permissible and even on  that  assumptionthey  rejected	the  plea of the  learned  Counsel  for	 theappellants  that  there was improvement in  the	 prosecutioncase.	The learned Judges were really meeting the  argumentof  the learned Counsel for the appellants.  It is  idle  tosuggest	 that  they erred in law in relying upon  the  firstinfor-909mation	report	to discredit the witnesses  for	 the  simplereason	that  they accepted the evidence in  spite  of	someomissions in the first information report.In the result, we confirm the judgment of the High Court anddismiss the appeal.HIDAYATULLAH, J.-The judgment which I am delivering has beenprepared by my learned brother, Imam, J. and myselfWe  agree that the appeal be dismissed but would express  inour own words the grounds upon which it should be dismissed.The main contention advanced on behalf of the appellants wasas  follows:  There was no fair trial of the  appellants  asthey had been deprived of the right of cross-examination  ofthe prosecution witnesses with reference to their statementsmade  to  the police during the police	investigation.	 Thetrial  Judge had disallowed two questions in  this  respect,and  the lawyer for the appellants regarded the decision  ofthe  learned Judge as one which prevented him  from  puttingfurther	 questions with respect to other matters  concerningthe  police statements of the witnesses.  The order  of	 thelearned Judge had to be respected.  The order of the learnedJudge  was  illegal, as on a proper  interpretation  of	 theprovisions of s. 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,	 theappellants  were entitled not only to put the two  questionswhich  were  ruled out, but also questions with	 respect  toother  matters arising out of the police statements  of	 thewitnesses.  The purpose of cross-examination is to test	 thereliability of the witnesses both as to what they had to sayabout	the   occurrence   itself   and	  concerning   theiridentification	of those who had participated in it.   Therewere several matters with respect to which, if questions hadbeen  allowed  to be put,  an  effective  -cross-examinationmight  have resulted and enabled the appellants to  persuadethe  trial  Judge to hold that the witnesses  were  entirelyunreliable.  In a case of this kind in which the  appellantswere involved, there were only two principal questions whichwere of vital importance:     (1) how far the witnesses	 hadimproved their910story in their evidence in Court from what they had said  tothe police concerning the occurrence, and (2) the  existenceof  opportunity	 and  sufficient  light	 to  enable   properidentification.It  may	 be  assumed,  although it  has	 been  a  matter  ofcontroversy,  that the order of the trial Judge	 disallowingthe  two  questions  which were put was	 understood  by	 thelawyer for the defence to mean that all similar questions inthe  nature  of	 omissions in  the  police  statements	withrespect	 to matters stated in Court would be disallowed	 andtherefore  no attempt was made to put further  questions  tothe witnesses in this respect.Unfortunately,	the lawyer for the defence had not  in	thisparticular case laid any adequate foundation upon which	 thetwo  questions,	 which	were  ruled  out,  could  have	beenproperly  put.	 From that point of view, the order  of	 thetrial Judge in disallowing those questions was not improper.It  could not, therefore, be said that the trial  Judge	 haddone  anything	which  could  be  rightly  characterised  asinfringement  of  the provisions of s. 162 of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure or of the Indian Evidence Act, or even ofthe rules of natural justice.Johari	Chowkidar had reported the occurrence to the  policestation, which was a brief statement.  Certain matters were,however,  definitely  mentioned	 the names  of	the  personsrecognised  in the occurrence, the number of persons  killedand injured, the taking away of a gun which was with  BharatSingh, Bankey Kumhar firing his gun at the culprits in	sucha  manner that some of them must have been injured, and	 theexistence of light from the moon and lantern.  The principalcomment had been that in this report there was no mention ofthe culprits having advanced from the well towards the	openplace  where villagers had gathered to hear the	 music.	  Onthe  contrary, the first information report  indicated	thatthe  firing  was done from the parapet of the well.   It  isclear,	however, from Johari's statement that  the  culpritshad  taken away the gun which was with Bharat  Singh.	Thiscould only have been done if the culprits had911advanced from the well to the place where the villagers	 hadassembled.It  was then commented that in the first information  reportthe culprits were said to have come from the southern  lane,while  in Court the evidence was that they had come  to	 thewell from the eastern lane.  The discrepancy is a minor one.Joliari	 must have been concerned with reporting  the  firstfiring from the well, and he might have mistaken the  actualdirection  from which the culprits had approached the  well.Johari's statement made no mention of the culprits  utteringany  warning  that no one was to run away as  they  advancedfrom the well, whereas in Court the witnesses spoke to	thateffect.	  This	was  a detail which Johari  might  not	haveconsidered to be of sufficient importance, as he was anxiousto  make  a  bare statement in order to get  the  police  toproceed	 to the place of occurrence as quickly as  possible.Johari's  statement  also makes no mention of  the  culpritsexamining  the bodies of the dead and examining their  facesand exclaiming that Asa Ram, one of the men whom they wishedto kill, had been killed.  Here again, this was a matter  ofdetail	which Johari might not have considered necessary  tomention.   The first information report made no	 mention  ofthe  existence of gas light.  It did, however,	mention	 theexistence  of light of lantern and existence  of  moonlight.The  existence	of  light from lantern	and  the  full	moonobviously was sufficient to recognise known persons.  It  isin evidence that the appellants were known for several yearsto the witnesses who had identified them as participants  inthe  occurrence.   It  could  not  be  said  with   absolutecertainty  that	 the mention of the existence  of  light  oflantern excluded the existence of gas light.  The  statementof  Johari gives clear indication that the culprits did	 notremain	all  the time at the well, because  they  must	haveadvanced  to take away the gun which was with Bharat  Singh.The culprits must have stayed at the place of occurrence forsome  time to enable Bankey Kumhar to fire his gun  at	themand  to convey to Johari's mind the certainty that  some  ofthe culprits must have been injured.  Reference is made onlyto912some of the details and not to all the discrepancies pointedout in order to determine whether the alleged improvement inthe  story  of	the witnesses in Court from  what  they	 arealleged	 to have stated to the police was with reference  tovital  matters,	 which went to the root of  the	 prosecutioncase.It is apparent from what has been stated above that even  ifthe  defence  had been allowed to put  questions  concerningthese  alleged omissions in the statements of the  witnessesto  the	 police, it could not have made	 their	evidence  inCourt  unreliable  with respect to any	material  particularconcerning  the	 occurrence  or the  identification  of	 theaccused.From the above, it seems to us that there is no merit in theappeal.	  As, however, considerable argument has  been	madeconcerning the right of cross. examination and as to how theprovisions  of	s.  162 of the Code  of	 Criminal  Procedureshould	be construed, it becomes necessary to  consider	 thesubmissions of the learned counsel for the appellants.The  provisions of the Code of.	 Criminal Procedure of	1861and 1872 have been referred to by our learned brother, SubbaRao,  J. Section 162 of the Code of 1872 made it clear	thatexcept for a dying declaration and matters coming within theprovisions  of s. 27 of the Indian Evidence Act of 1872,  nostatement  of  any person made to a police  officer  in	 thecourse of in. vestigation, if reduced into writing, could beused as evidence against the accused.  There was no restric-tion  as to the extent of the right of an accused to  cross-examine	 a prosecution witness concerning his  statement  tothe police.  Section 162 of the Code of 1898 prohibited	 theuse of a statement reduced into writing, as evidence  exceptany statement falling within the provisions of s. 32 of	 theIndian	Evidence  Act, 1872.  The proviso to  this  section,however,  expressly stated that in spite of the	 prohibitionin  the main provision, the accused could use such a  state-ment  to impeach the credit of the witnesses in	 the  mannerprovided  in  the Indian Evidence Act of 1872.	It  will  beseen  therefore	 that until 1898 there was  no	restriction,imposed upon the accused as to the extent913of his right of cross-examination.  As s. 162 of the Code of1898  entirely prohibited the use of the  statement  reducedinto writing as evidence, the proviso to it safeguarded	 theright  of the accused to impeach the credit of such  witnessin  the	 manner provided in the Indian Evidence	 Act,  1872.Under  the  Indian Evidence Act, a witness's credit  can  beimpeached under ss. 145 and 155 of that Act.  The manner  inwhich the provisions of these sections could be utilized  toimpeach	 the credit of a witness covers a wide	field.	 If,however, it was intended to contradict a witness  concerninghis  previous  statement  reduced  into	 writing,  then	 theprovisions of s. 145 require that those parts of the writingby  which  it was sought to contradict the witness  must  beshown to him.  There can, be no doubt that the provisions ofthe  Code  from 1861 to 1898 in no way curbed the  right  ofcross-examination on behalf of the accused.  The  provisionswere intended to protect the accused in that no statement ofa  witness to the police reduced into writing could be	usedas evidence against him, but the right to cross-examine	 thewitness	 to  the  fullest  extent  in  accordance  with	 theprovisions of the Indian Evidence Act in order to show	thathe  was unreliable, remained unaffected.  The real  questionfor  consideration is whether the amendment of the  Code  in1923  brought about such a radical change in the  provisionsof s. 162 of the Code as to suggest that the Legislature hadtaken  a  retrograde step, and had intended to	deprive	 theaccused	 of  the right of cross-examination  of	 prosecutionwitnesses  concerning their police statements except in	 onerestricted particular, namely, to make use of the statementsreduced	 into  writing to contradict the  witnesses  in	 themanner provided by s. 145 of the Indian Evidence Act.The provisions of s. 162 of the Code of 1898 were amended in1923  in  the  hope that the  amendment	 would	resolve	 thevarious	 doubts	 which	had  sprung  up	 as  the  result  ofdivergent  judicial  opinions  as to the  meaning  of  theseProvisions.   The provisions of s. 162 of the Code  of	1898had been variously construed,115914and  the  amendment in 1923 has not improved  matters.	 Theamended	 section  still remains difficult to  construe.	  Weshall endeavour now to construe it.Under  s.  161 of the Code, the police officer	may  examineorally	any person supposed to be acquainted with the  factsand  circumstances  of the case.  He may  also	reduce	intowriting	 any  statement made to him in the  course  of	suchexamination,  and  if he does so, he must  make	 a  separaterecord of the statement ofeach such person.The legislature has, however, put restrictions upon the	 useof  such statements at the inquiry or trial of the  offence.The  first  restriction	 is that no statement  made  by	 anyperson	to  a police officer, if reduced  into	writing,  besigned	by the person making it.  The intention	 behind	 theprovision  is easy to understand.  The legislature  probablythought that the making of statements by witnesses might  bethwarted, if the witnesses were led to believe that  becausethey had signed the statements they were bound by them,	 andthat  whether  the statements were true or  not,  they	mustcontinue  to stand by them.  The legislature  next  providesthat a statement, however recorded, or any part of it  shallnot  be	 used  for  any purpose (save  as  provided  in	 thesections  at the inquiry or trial in respect of any  offenceunder investigation at the time such statement is wade.	 Theobject	here  is not easily discernible, but perhaps  is  todiscourage over-zealous police officers who might  otherwiseexert themselves to improve the statements made before them.The Privy Council considered the intention to be:" If one had to guess at the intention of the legislature inframing a section in the words used, one would suppose	thatthey  had  in mind to encourage the free disclosure  of	 theinformation  or to protect the person making  the  statementfrom  a	 supposed unreliability of police  testimony  as  toalleged statements or both."It  is possible that the legislature had also in  mind	thatthe  use  of  statements made under  the  influence  of	 theinvestigating  agency might, unless restricted to a use	 forthe benefit of the accused, result in considerable915prejudice  to him.  But whatever the intention which led  tothe imposition of the restrictions, it is manifest that	 thestatements,  however recorded, cannot be used except to	 theextent allowed by the section.	The prohibition contained inthe words "any purpose" is otherwise absolute.Then follow two provisos.  The first gives the right to	 theaccused	 to make use of the statements for  contradicting  awitness for the prosecution in the manner provided by s. 145of  the Indian Evidence Act.  It also gives a right  to	 theprosecution   to   use	the  statement	 for   purposes	  ofreexamination  of the same witness but only to	explain	 anymatter referred to in the cross-examination of the witness.The  first  proviso,  when  analysed,  gives  the  followingingredients:(i)  A prosecution, witness Is called for the prosecution ;(ii) whose statement has previously been reduced to writing;(iii)	  The accused makes a request(iv) The  accused is furnished with a copy of  the  previousstatement;(v)  In	 order	that  any part of such	statement,  if	dulyproved, may be used to contradict such witness in the mannerprovided by s. 145 of the Indian Evidence Act.If  the	 a accused exercises the right in (v) above  in	 anyinstance,  then	 the prosecution has the right	to  use	 thestatement  in the reexamination of the witness but  only  toexplain any matters referred to by him in cross-examination.Section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act reads:Cross-examination  as to previous statements in	 writing:  Awitness may be cross-examined as to previous statements madeby  him in writing or reduced into writing, and relevant  tomatters	 in  question, without such writing being  shown  tohim, or being proved ; but, if it is intended to  contradicthim  by the writing, his attention must, before the  writingcan be proved, be called to those parts of it, which are  tobe used for the purpose of contradicting him."916The section analysed, gives the following result:(1)  Witnesses	 can  be  cross-examined  as   to   previousstatements in writing or reduced into writing;(2)  These  writings need not be shown to the  witnesses  orproved beforehand;(3)  But  if  the  intention is to contradict  them  by	 thewritings,(a)  their attention must be drawn to those parts which	 areto be used for contradiction ;(b)  This should be done before proving the writings.Our learned brother, Subba Rao, J., restricts the use by theaccused	 of  the  previous statements to  the  mechanism  ofcontradiction  as detailed in (3) above, but says  that	 theaccused	 has  no  right to proceed under (1)  and  (2).	  Hededuces	 this  from  the  words of s. 162  of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure, where it is provided :" in order that any part of such statement, if duly  proved,may  be	 used  to  contradict such  witness  in	 the  mannerprovided by section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872."The fact that the accused can use the previous statement forthe  purpose  of  contradicting,  shows	 that  the  previousstatement  cannot  be used for	corroborating  the  witness.Also  there must be some basis for contradicting.  This	 mayarise,	 because  of  there  being  a  contrary	  statement,irreconcilable	statement or even material  omissions.	 Theaccused can establish a contradiction by cross-examining thewitness	 but only so as to bring out a contradiction and  nomore.  We regret we cannot agree (and we say this with	pro-found  respect) that the accused is not entitled  to  cross-examine	 but  only  to	contradict.   In  our  opinion,	 thereference to s. 145 of the Indian Evidence Act brings in thewhole  of the manner and machinery of s. 145 and not  merelythe  second part.  In this process, of course,	the  accusedcannot go beyond s. 162 or ignore what the section prohibitsbut  cross-examination to establish a contradiction  betweenone statement and another is certainly permissible.This question loses much of its importance when917there  are patent contradictions and they can be put to	 thewitness	  without  any	cross-examination  as  in  the	 twostatements:(a)  I saw A hit B.(b)  I did not see A hit B.But there are complex situations where the contradiction  ismost  vital  and relevant but is not so patent.,  There	 arecases of omissions on a relevant and material point.  Let usillustrate our meaning by giving two imaginary statements:(a)  When I arrived at the scene I saw that X was running   away,chased by A and B who caught him.(b)  When I arrived at the scene I saw X take out a dagger  fromhis pocket, stab D in his chest and then take to his  heels.He was chased by A and B who caught him.There  is an omission of two facts in the  first  statement,viz.,  (a) X took out a dagger from his pocket, and  (b)  hestabbed	 D  in	the chest.  These two  statements  or  theiromission  involve  a contradiction as to the  stage  of	 theoccurrence, when the observation of the witness began.What  s. 145 of the Indian Evidence Act provides is  that  awitness	 may  be contradicted by a  statement  reduced	intowriting	 and  that  is also the use  to	 which	the  earlierstatement  can be put under s. 162 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure.    When   some   omissions	occur,	 there	  iscontradiction in one sense but not necessarily on a relevantmatter.	  The  statements of witnesses may and	do  comprisenumerous  facts and circumstances, and it happens that	whenthey  are  asked to narrate their version over	again,	theyomit  some  and add others.  What use can be  made  of	suchomissions or additions is for the accused to decide, but  itcannot	be doubted that some of the omissions  or  additionsmay have a vital bearing upon the truth of the story  given.We  do not think that by enacting s. 162 in the words  used,the legislature intended a prohibition of  cross-examinationto  establish which of the two versions is an authentic	 oneof the events as seen by the witness.  The use of the words"reexamination and " cross-examination " in the same918proviso	 shows that cross-examination is contemplated or  inother  words, that the manner of contradiction under s.	 145of the Indian Evidence Act comprises both  cross-examinationand  contradiction.   Indeed, the second part  is  only	 thefinal	       stage	     of		the	     contra-diction,which includes the earlier stages.  Reexamination isonly permissible where there is cross-examination.It must not be overlooked that the cross-examination must bedirected  to  bringing	out  a	contradiction  between	 thestatements and must not subserve any other purpose.  If	 thecross-examination  does	 anything else, it  will  be  barredunder s. 162, which permits the use of the earlier statementfor  contradicting a witness and nothing else.	 Taking	 theexample given above, we do not see why cross-examination maynot be like this:Q.   I	put it to you that when you arrived on the  scene  Xwas  already running away and you did not actually  see	 himstab D as you have deposed to-day ?A.   No. I saw both the events.Q.   If	 that  is so, why is your statement  to	 the  policesilent as to stabbing ?A. I stated both the facts to the police.The  witness  can  then be contradicted	 with  his  previousstatement.    We   need	 hardly	 point	out  that   in	 theillustration  given  by us, the evidence of the	 witness  inCourt  is direct evidence as opposed to testimony to a	factsuggesting  guilt.  The statement before the police only  becalled circumstantial evidence of, complicity and not directevidence in the strict sense.Of course, if the questions framed were:Q.   What did you state to the police ? orQ.   Did you state -to the police that D stabbed X ?They  may be ruled out as infringing s. 162 of the  Code  ofCriminal   Procedure,  because	they  do  not  set   tip   acontradiction  but attempt to get a fresh version  from	 thewitnesses with a view to contradicting him.  How the  cross-examination  can  be made must obviously vary from  case  tocase,  counsel	to counsel and statement to  statement.	  Nosingle	rule  can  be laid down and  the  propriety  of	 thequestion in the light of919the  two  sections  can be found only  when  the  facts	 andquestions are before the Court.	 But we are of opinion	thatrelevant   and	 material   omissions	amount	 to    vitalcontradictions,	  which	  can  be  established	 by   cross-examination  and confronting the witness with  his  previousstatement.The  word " contradict " has various 'Meanings, and  in	 theOxford	English Dictionary it is stated as " To be  contraryto in effect, character, etc. ; to be directly opposed to gocounter	 to, go against " as also " to affirm  the  contraryof; to declare untrue or erroneous; to deny categorically  "and  the  word	"  contradiction " to  mean  "	A  state  orcondition  of  opposition  in things  compared	;  variance;inconsistency,	contrariety  ". In  Shorter  Oxford  EnglishDictionary,  "	contradict  "  is said	to  mean  "To  speakagainst;  to  oppose in speech ; to forbid ; to	 oppose;  toaffirm	the contrary of; to declare untrue or erroneous;  todeny  to be contrary to go counter to and go against  and  "contradiction  " to mean " A state of opposition  in  thingscompared;  variance; inconsistency".  The meaning  given  tothe  words  ,contradict	 " and " contradiction	"  in  theseDictionaries  must at least include the case of an  omissionin  a  previous statement which by  implication	 amounts  tocontradiction  and  therefore such an omission is  a  matterwhich  is  covered  by	the first  proviso  to	s.  162	 andquestions  in cross. examination can be put with respect  toit  in over to contradict the witness.	It is  difficult  tosay  as an inflexible rule that any other kind	of  omissioncannot be put to a witness in order to contradict him,	whenthe  proper  foundation	 had  been  laid  for  putting	suchquestions.  The words " to contradict him " appearing in  s.145  of the Evidence Act must carry the same meaning as	 thewords " to contradict such witness " in s. 162 of the  Code.In a civil suit, where the provisions of s. 162 of the	Codeof  Criminal  Procedure	 have no application,  would  it  becorrect	 to say that only questions concerning omissions  ofthe  kind suggested by our learned brother could be put	 andnone other ?  We cannot see why a question of the nature  ofcross-examination regarding an omission with respect to a920matter	which  the witness omitted to make in  his  previousstatement  and	which, if made, would. have  been  recorded,cannot	be  put.  The facts and circumstances of  each	casewill determine whether any other kind of omission than	thatreferred to by our learned brother could be put to a witnessin  order to contradict him.  It would be for the  Judge  todecide in each case whether in the circumstances before	 himthe question could be put.  The purpose of cross-examinationis  to test the veracity of the statement made by a  witnessin  his examination-in-chief as also to impeach his  credit.Not only is it the right of the accused to shake the  creditof a witness, but it is also the duty of the Court trying anaccused	 to satisfy itself that the witnesses are  reliable.It would be dangerous to lay down any hard and fast rule.We pause to look at the matter from another angle.  We shallassume that the interpretation which the State claims shouldbe put upon s. 162(1) is correct and compare the  respectiverights	of  the accused and the prosecution.   According  tothis  interpretation,  the accused has no  right  of  cross-examination  in	 respect of the contradiction.	 This  meansthat no question can be put about the previous statement butonly  the  part	 in which there is a  contradiction  can  bebrought to the witness's notice and his explanation, if any,obtained.   In other words, there is only " contradiction  "and no more.  But when the accused has used the statement tocontradict the witness-it may be only on one point-what	 arethe rights of the prosecution ? The prosecution can use	 anypart  of  the  statement in the reexamination  not  only  toexplain the I contradiction' but also to explain any  matterreferred to in the cross-examination of the witness.If  I contradiction ' does not include the right  of  cross-examination,  the right of the prosecution must	 necessarilyextend	to  reexamination  in respect of  any  other  matterneeding	 explanation  in  the  cross-examination  at  large.Thus, the accused cannot ask a single question of the natureof   cross-examination	 but  because  he  sets	  up   a   Icontradiction'	in  the narrow sense,  the  prosecution	 canrange all over the previous921statement and afford the witness a chance of explaining	 anymatter	in his cross-examination by re-examining  him  whichright  includes the possibility of asking leading  questionswith the permission of the Court.Thus, the accused makes a I contradiction' at his own peril.By making a single I contradiction', the accused places	 theentire statement in the hands of the prosecution to  explainaway  everything  with its assistance.	One wonders  if	 thelegislature  intended such a result, for it is too  great  aprice  for  the	 accused  to pay  for  too  small  a  right.Fortunately,  that is not the meaning of s. 162 of the	Codeof  Criminal Procedure, and it is not necessary to read	 theword  " cross-examination " in the proviso in a sense  otherthan what it has.The right of both the accused and the prosecution is limitedto  contradictions.  It involves cross. examination  by	 theaccused as to that contradiction within s. 145 of the IndianEvidence Act and reexamination in relation to the matters  Ireferred  to in the cross-examination of the witness'.	 Theprosecution cannot range at will to explain away every	dis-crepancy  but only such as the accused under his  right	 hasbrought	 to light.  In our opinion, reading the	 section  inthis way gives effect to every part and does not lead to thestartling and, if we may say so, the absurd results which wehave endeavoured to set out above.The  question  may  be asked, how is there to  be  a  cross-examination about a previous statement ? It is difficult  toillustrate   one's   meaning  by  entering  into   such	  anexposition.   Any  one interested to see  the  technique  isinvited to read Mrs. Maybrick's trial in the Notable EnglishTrials	(1912) at pages 77-79, the trial of William  Palmer,pages 35,36, 50-51.  Examples will be found in every leadingtrial.	 The question is, did the legislature intend  givingthis right ? In our opinion, the legislature did and for thevery  obvious  reason that it gave the	prosecution  also  achance	to re-examine the witness, to explain I	 any  matterreferred to in the cross-examination of the witness.116922We  respectfully  do not agree that the	 section  should  beconstrued  in the way our learned brother has construed	 it.Though we agree as to the result, our opinion cannot be leftunexpressed.  If the section is construed too narrowly,	 theright it confers will cease to be of any real protection  tothe accused, and the danger of its becoming an impediment toeffective  cross-examination  on behalf of  the	 accused  isapparent.This brings us to the consideration of the questions,  whichwere asked and disallowed.  These were put during the cross-examination of Bankey, P. W. 30.  They are:Q.   Did  you  state to the investigating officer  that	 thegang rolled the dead bodies of Nathi, Saktu and Bharat Singhand scrutinized them, and did you tell him that the face  ofAsa Ram resembled that of the deceased Bharat Singh ?Q.   Did  you state to the investigating officer  about	 thepresence of the gas lantern ?These  questions  were defective, to start with.   They	 didriot set up a contradiction but attempted to obtain from thewitness a version of what he stated to the police, which  isthen contradicted.  What is needed is to take the  statementof  the	 police	 as it is,  and	 establish  a  contradictionbetween	 that  statement and the evidence in Court.   To  dootherwise  is to transgress the bounds set by s. 162  which,by  its absolute prohibition, limits even  cross-examinationto contradictions and no more.	The cross-examination cannoteven   indirectly  subserve  any  other	 purpose.   In	 thequestions with which we illustrated our meaning, the witnesswas  not asked what he stated to the police,. but  was	toldwhat  he had stated to the police and asked to	explain	 theomission.  It is to be borne in mind that the statement madeto the police is I duly proved' either earlier or even laterto establish what the witness had then stated.In  our	 opinion, the two questions were defective  for	 thereasons	 given	here,  and were properly  ruled	 out,  even,though	all  the reasons given by the Court  may  not  standscrutiny.  The matter was not followed up923with  proper questions, and it seems that similar  questionson these and other points were not put to the witness out ofdeference  (as	it is now suggested) to the  ruling  of	 theCourt.	 The accused can only blame themselves, if they	 didnot.The  learned Judges of the High Court ruled out	 from  theirconsideration that these two circumstances made it  possiblefor  the witnesses to recognise the accused, but  hold	thatthere was ample opportunity even otherwise for the witnessesto  do	so.  The High Court was justified in so	 doing,	 andthere  being ample evidence on which they could come to	 theconclusion  that the witnesses had, in fact, recognised	 theaccused,  it must inevitably be regarded as one of  fact  inregard to which this Court does not interfere.Since  no other point was argued, the appeal must fail,	 andwe agree that it be dismissed.Appeal dismissed.