PETITIONER:MAHANT RAMDHAN PURI	Vs.RESPONDENT:BANKEY BIHARI SARAN & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/05/1958BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.BOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1958 AIR  941		  1959 SCR 1085ACT:       Deed, construction of-Mortgage or  lease-Accounts-Mortgagee,       if bound to render account--Transfer of Property Act (IV	 of       1882), ss. 76 and 77.HEADNOTE:D executed a document in favour of M hypothecating an  eightannas  share in a village for the purpose of  discharging  adebt of Rs. 29,496 payable by him to Al.  In respect of thisproperty there was a pre-existing think in favour of j for aperiod	of 9 years, under which D took Rs. 2,205  as  peshgimoney without interest and the annual rent was fixed at	 RS.2,205.	 The document provided that (i) interest at 1/2	 percent. per month was payable on the sum Of Rs. 29,496 ;	(ii)(luring	 the  subsistence of the thika M would	receive	 therent from j and appropriate Rs. 1,769-12-o towards  interestand pay Rs. 435-4-o as rent to D ; (iii) after the expiry ofthe  thika M would take physical possession of the land	 andappropriate the produce towards interest and Pay Rs. 435-4-oas rent to D; (iv) on the expiry of the thika M would  repaythe  peshgi amount of Rs. 2,205 to j and this sum was  addedto principal amount due ; (v) on the expiry of 15 years,  orafter  the  extended  period,  D  would	 repay	the   entireprincipal  amount;  (vi)  and  the  property  was  given  assecurity  for the amount payable by D. The  respondents	 whoare successors of D instituted a suit for redemption on	 thebasis that the transaction was a usufructuary mortgage,	 forrendition  of accounts and for recovery of surplus  profits.The  appellant, successor of M, contended that the suit	 forredemption was not maintainable as the transaction was not amortgage  but  a lease, and that even if it was	 a  mortgagethere  was no statutory liability to render accounts as	 thedocument provided that the receipts were to be taken in lieuof interest and the case was governed by S. 77, Transfer  ofProperty Act :Held,  that the transaction was a mortgage and not a  lease.The  guiding rule of construction is that the  intention  ofthe parties must be looked into and that once there is	debtwith security of land for its redemption the arrangement  isa mortgage by whatever name it is called.Held,  further, that there was a contract between the  mort-gagor  and  the	 mortgagee  within the	meaning	 Of  S.	 77,Transfer  of  Property Act to the effect that  the  receiptsfrom the mortgaged property be taken in lieu of interest andconsequently   the  mortgagee  was  not	 liable	 to   renderaccounts.  The stipulation1086in the document for payment of Rs. 435-4-0 to the  mortgagorwas  a	personal obligation of the mortgagee and  he  had  aright  to take the entire receipts from the land in lieu  ofinterest.   Though  the rate of interest is  stated  as	 percent.  per month it was mentioned to enable the	 parties  toapproximately  fix  the	 amount to be  appropriated  by	 themortgagee  from	 and  out  of the  rent	 received  from	 thethikadar.   The	 mere  fact of the mention of  the  rate  ofinterest  could not make s. 77 inapplicable in view  of	 theclearly expressed intention of the parties.Pandit Bachchu Lal v. Chaudhri Syed Mohammad Mah, (1033)  37C. W. N. 457, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal -No. 239 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated December 12, 1950,of  the Patna High Court in Appeal from Original Decree	 No.188  of	 1945 arising out of the judgment and  decree  datedDecember   18,	1945,  of  the	Court  of   the	  AdditionalSubordinate  Judge, IV Class, Gaya, in Title Suit No.  4  of1945.Purshottam Tricumdas and S. P. Varma, for the appellant.S.P. Sinha and R. C. Prasad, for respondents Nos. 1-4, 8-10, 13 and 14.1958.  May 23.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySUBBA RAO J.-This appeal by certificate tinder Art. 133	 (1)(a)  of	 the Constitution of India is directed	against	 thejudgment and decree of the High Court of Judicature at Patnasetting	 aside	those of the Subordinate Judge, Gaya,  in  asuit for redemption of an usufructuary mortgage.Deokinand, the common ancestor of plaintiff-respondents 1 to4  and	proforma respondents 6 to 12,  executed	 a  documentdated  August 20, 1923, in favour of Mahant Tokhnarain	Puriof   Nadra,  the  predecessor-ininterest  of  defendant	  1,hypothecating  eight annas milkiat share in  mauza  Lodipur,Mahimabigha, Tauze No. 4246 for the purpose of discharging adebt of Rs. 31,701 payable by him to the Mahanth.  There areconflicting  versions  in  regard  to  the  nature  of	thistransaction-respondents claim it to be a usufructuary1087mortgage, while the appellant asserts it to be a lease.. Theplaintiff-respondents instituted Title Suit No. 4 of 1945 inthe Court of the Additional Subordinate Judge 1V, Gaya,	 forredemption  of the said document on the basis that it was  ausufructuary mortgage, for rendition of accounts and for therecovery  of  surplus profits due to  them.   The  appellantpleaded,  inter alia, that the suit for redemption  was	 notmaintainable  as the document was not a mortgage but  lease,that on the assumption that it was a mortgage it would	onlybe  an anomalous mortgage in respect where of there  was  nostatutory  liability  to render accounts to  the  plaintiff,that even if it was a usufructuary mortgage, it was governedby  the provisions of s. 77 of the Transfer of Property	 Acttaking the mortgage out of the purview of s. 76 (d) and	 (g)of the said Act.It  is	not  necessary to particularize	 other	defences  asnothing	 turns	upon  them  in	the  appeal.   The   learnedSubordinate   Judge  held  that	 the  document	 created   ausufructuary mortgage and not a lease and that s. 77 of	 theTransfer of Property Act applied to the document exoneratingthe appellant from any liability to render accounts.  In theresult,	 the  learned Subordinate Judge gave  a	 conditionaldecree	in  favour of respondents I to 4 for  possession  ontheir depositing in Court a sum of Rs. 26,839-7-0 within sixmonths	from  the  date	 of  the  decree.   The	  plaintiff-respondents  preferred an appeal against that decree to	 theHigh Court at Patna.  The High Court agreed with the learnedSubordinate  Judge  that  the  document	 was  a	 sufructuarymortgage   but	differed  from	him  on	 the   question	  ofapplicability of s. 77 of the Transfer of Property Act.	 TheHigh  Court set aside the decree of the learned	 SubordinateJudge and passed instead a preliminary decree for redemptionand sale on default of payment: the decree also directed therendition  of accounts between the parties in the  light  ofthe directions given in the judgment.  The second  defendantagainst	 whom  the  decree was passed  preferred  the  aboveappeal.The point to be first decided is whether the transaction  isa  lease  as contended by the contesting  respondents.	 Theonly guiding rule that can be extracted1088from  the cases on the subject is that the intention of	 theparties	 must be looked into and that 'once you get  a	debtwith   security	 of  land  for	its  redemption,  then	 thearrangement  is	 a mortgage by whatever name it	 is  called'(See  Ghosh on Mortgages, V Edn., Vol. 1, p. 102).   Let  usnow  examine  the  terms of the document Exhibit  A  (3)  toascertain  the intention of the parties.  The  document	 wasobviously not drafted by a trained mind.  It appears to be aconfused  product of one of those village  document-writers.We  shall  read	 the document,	omitting  the  recitals	 notmaterial  to  the  question raised: The first  part  of	 thedocument recited that the executant was heavily indebted  tothe other party under mortgage bonds and also otherwise	 andthat  common friends settled that a part of  the  propertiesmortgaged  should be let out in ijara with possession  at  alower  rate of interest so that 'the increment	of  interestmay be checked and the present necessities may be met ".  Itwas also stated in the document that in respect of the	saidproperty there was a pre-existing thika (lease) dated  April21,  1922,  in	favour of Munshi  Dodraj  Lal  alias  MunshiJatadhari  Lal, for a period of 9 years and that  under	 thesaid  lease, Rs. 2,205 was taken by the executant as  peshgimoney  without interest and the rent was fixed at a  sum  ofRs. 2,205.  Then the document proceeds to state thus:" In respect of Rs. 29,496 the total sum of peshgi money, heshould,	 for  the  satisfaction	 of  interest  thereon,	 getexecuted  a usufructuary mortgage deed bearing a lower	rateof interest in respect of 8 annas share i. e., half share inmauza  Lodipur	Mahima Bigha, principal	 with  dependencies,together      known	 and	 unknown      tola	 andtotals	..................................for  term  of	  15years  on  fixing  Rs. 2,205 as the  annual  rental  and  bygetting mortgaged there. under 8 annas proprietary interest,thikadari interest together with peshgi money and the  rightto   receive  thikadari	 rent  from  the   said	  thikadars.Accordingly,  at  the  request	and  entreaty  of  me,	 theexecutant, the said Mahanthji took pity at my condition	 andagreed	to  my	request and got ready  to  get	usufructuarymortgage deed executed.	 Therefore, 1, the executant,1089"..................  have voluntarily let out in ijara	withpossession the whole and entire 8 annas i. e., half of MauzaLodipur Mahima Bigha.....for   a   peshgi   money   of	 Rs.31,701that Rs. 29,496, the peshgi money bearing interest  at1/2  per  cent. per month and Rs. 2,205, tile  peshgi  moneywithout interest, at an annual rental of Rs. 2,205 includingrevenue and cesses, for a term of 15 years, commencing	from1331 Fasli to 1345 Fasli ............... and have put him inpossession  and	 occupation  of the ijiara  property  as  myrepresentative.	 It is desired that the said ijaradar shouldenter  into and remain in possession and occupation  of	 theijara  property and so long as the thika of'  Munshi  DodrajLal alias Jatadhari Lal	 .................................isintact	and  in force, he should realize the rent  from	 theabove-named thikadars and their heirs and representatives inaccordance with the stipulations made in the thika patta andkabuliat  as representative of me, the executant, and  bringit  into his possession and use, that is to say, on his	 ownauthority he should set off Rs. 1,769-12-0 on account of theinterest  on the peshgi money bearing interest mentioned  inthis deed, year after year, and pay the remaining sum of Rs.435-4-0,  the amount of rent due by the ijaradar, i.e.,	 thereserved  rent,	 to  me, the executant,	 and  my  heirs	 andrepresentatives	 The ijaradar should not make  any  default.If he does so, he and his heirs and representatives shall beheld liable to pay interest at 1/2 per cent. per month."Then  the document proceeds to incorporate the terms  agreedupon by the parties, to take effect after the termination ofthe thikadari interest.	 It is stated:"  The	ijaradar  of  this  ijara  deed	 or  his  heirs	 andrepresentatives	 on his own authority shall be competent  tobring  the thika property into his sir possession  as  ijaraproperty  as  a	 representative of  me,	 the  executant,  inaccordance  with  the  stipulations made in  the  patta	 andkabuliats  after setting off Rs. 2,205 the peshgi money	 dueto  the thikadars by me, the executant, against	 the  annualthikadari  rent.   The	said ijaradar should  make  his	 ownarrangement  for the cultivation of the ijara property,	 getit cultivated1090by  others, realise the nakdi and jinsi income of the  ijaraproperty  from	the tenants and appropriate the	 produce  ofboth the shares thereof. 1, the executant, and my heirs	 andrepresentatives neither have nor shall have any right, claimand. demand in respect of tile produce or the income of	 theijara  property so long as the ijara deed is  intact  exceptgetting	 Rs.  435-4-0,	the  rent  after  the  payment	 anddeduction of interest on the peshgi money bearing interest."The  document  then allocates the liability  in	 respect  ofimprovements  and sums spent in regard to boundary  disputesto  one or other of the parties to the document and then  itcontinues to state:" The peshgi money amounting to Rs. 31,701 with and  withoutinterest  as mentioned in this ijara deed has been  realizedfrom the ijaradar in this manner that I allowed Rs.  28,246,the  amount  of	 loan principal	 with  simple  and  compoundinterest  as per account given below after remission of	 theinterest  due to the ijaradar under all the  three  mortgagebonds  to be set off against the peshgi money by  getting  anote  made to that effect on the back of the  said  mortgagebonds which I allowed to remain with the ijaradar as a proofof  pavnient of the peshgi money covered by this  deed	 Theterm  of this ijara deed with possession shall terminate  inthe month of Jeth, 1345 Fasli, when 1, the executant, or  myheirs  and representatives shall repay Rs. 31,701 being	 thepeshgi	money  with and without interest mentioned  in	thisdeed in cash and in one lump sum to the said ijaradar or hisheirs and representatives, 1 shall bring the ijara  propertyinto my sir possession.	 If I do not repay the peshgi  moneywith and without interest on the expiry of the term of	thisijara deed with possession, then, till the repayment of	 thewhole  and  entire peshgi money with and  without  interest,this ijara deed with possession shall precisely with all thestipulations  remain in force and intact. 1, the  executant,or  my heirs and representatives shall not put	forward	 anysort  of  claim or demand in respect of an increase  in	 theproduce save and except the claim1091for    getting	 rent	as   fixed   and    the	   mentionedabove...... ................................................in  security  of  the payment of the peshgi  money  with  orwithout	 interest  mentioned  in  this	ijara  deed  I,	 theexecutant, have mortgaged, hypothecated, encumbered and madeliable	the ijara property.  I do hereby make a	 trustworthydeclaration  that  till the repayment of the  entire  peshgimoney  of  the ijaradar I shall not in any way	directly  orindirectly on any allegation mortgage, hypothecate. encumberand transfer the ijara property."The  gist of the aforesaid transaction may be  stated  thus:The  executant	was indebted to the other party in  a  largeamount	under  mortgage bonds 'and otherwise.	Through	 theintervention of common friends, with a view to salvage	someproperty,  the	amount due from the executant to  the  otherparty was fixed in the sum of Rs. 29,496 and it was  settledthat half share in mauza should be given as security to	 theother  party.  At the time of the execution of the  documentthere was an outstanding thika document in favour of a thirdparty, whereunder the said party advanced a sum of Rs. 2,205to the executant and agreed to pay Rs. 2,205 as annual rent.As  the other party agreed to discharge the advance paid  bythe  third party to the executant, the right to collect	 therent from him was also agreed to be given as security to theother  party.  With the result, the executant  received	 Rs.31,701	under  the document, out of which  Rs.	29,496	boreinterest  at  i per cent. per month and Rs.  2,205  did	 notcarry  interest, presumably because the other party did	 notactually  pay  the amount to the  executant.   The  documentdivided	 the  transaction into two parts.   The	 first	partdealt  with  the  terms governing  the	parties	 during	 thesubsistence  of	 the  thikadari interest;  the	second	partmentioned the terms binding on the parties after the  expiryof  the said interest.	During the first period,  the  otherparty  would receive the annual rent of Rs. 2,205  from	 thethikadars, set off Rs. 1,769-12-0 on account of interest  onthe peshgi money bearing interest and pay the1391092remaining  sum	of  Rs.	 435-4-0 as  reserved  rent  to	 theexecutant.   After the expiry of the thikadari	interest  in1338 Fasli, the other party would take actual possession  bysetting off Rs. 2,205 the peshgi money due to the  thikadarsby the executant, against the annual thikadari rent.   Aftergetting	 possession of the ijara property, the	other  partywould make arrangements for its cultivation and	 appropriatethe  produce towards interest, paying the executant  only  asum  of Rs. 435-4-0 as rent.  The previous deeds  were	dis-charged and endorsements to that effect made on the back  ofthe  documents.	 If the debt was not discharged within	1345Fasli,	it was agreed that till the repayment of the  entirepeshgi money, the ijara deed with possession would preciselywith  all  stipulations	 remain in force  and  intact.	 Theexecutant,  in express terms, undertook not to	put  forwardany  sort of claim or demand in respect of the	increase  inthe  produce  except and save to get rent as  fixed  in	 thedocument.From the aforesaid summary of the recitals in the  document,the  following	facts emerge: (1) The executant	 owed  largesums  of  money to the other party; (2) interest  at  i	 percent.  per  month was agreed to be paid on the	sum  of	 Rs.29,496,	 i.e.,	on the entire consideration  excluding	thatamount which was advanced by the thikadars to the executant;(3) the manner of discharging the debt was prescribed in thedocument,  namely,  that  during  the  subsistence  of	 thethikadari  interest, the other party would receive the	rentfrom the thikadars and appropriate Rs. 1,769-12-0 on accountof  interest  and pay a sum of Rs. 435-4-0 as  rent  to	 theexecutant  and	that  after  the  expiry  of  the  thikadariinterest, the other party would take physical possession  ofthe  land and appropriate the produce towards  interest	 andpay only a sum of Rs. 435-4-0 as rent to the executant;	 (4)on  the	 expiry	 of 15 years period or	after  the  extendedperiod, the executant would pay the entire principal  amountto  the	 other	party; (5) 8 annas share in  the  mauza	 wasspecifically given as security for the amount payable by theexecutant.  Under the document, there was a relationship  ofcreditor and debtor between the1093parties	 and  the  property was given as  security  for	 thepayment	 of the amount advanced with interest.	 Though	 thedocument is described as a cowle, the parties, who have	 hadearlier	 transactions,	must  be deemed to  have  known	 thenature of the transaction they were entering into.  In clearand  express  terms the nature of the transaction  has	beenstated in more than one place.	The executant, requested theother  party, in respect of the advance amount and  interestto get executed by him a usufructuary mortgage deed  bearinga  lower rate of interest in respect of the 8  annas  share.After  mentioning the various terms, the executant  restatedthe intention of the parties in the following terms:"In  security  of the payment of the peshgi  money  with  orwithout	 interest  mentioned  in this  ijara  deed,  I,	 theexecutant, have mortgaged, hypothecated, encumbered and madeliable the ijara property."Therefore, whatever ambiguity there might be in the recitalsthat  was dispelled by the unambiguous declaration  made  bythe parties that the property was given as security for	 theloan and the document was executed as a mortgage.  The	gistof  the document was not a letting of the premises,  with  arent  reserved, but a mortgage of the premises with a  smallportion	 of the income of it made payable to the  plaintiff.There is, therefore, no scope for the argument in this	casethat  the document is a lease and not a mortgage.  We  hold,agreeing  with	the  High  Court, that	the  document  is  amortgage and not a lease.Even  so,  it was contended by the learned Counsel  for	 theappellant  that the document did not create an	usufructuarymortgage  but only an anomalous mortgage.   This  contentionwas  raised  as	 a foundation to the argument  that  if	 thedocument   was	an  anomalous  mortgage,  the	rights	 andliabilities of the parties would be governed by the terms ofthe contract between them and not by the provisions of s. 76of  the	 Transfer of Property Act.  The	 question  does	 notreally	fall  to  be  decided in  this	case.	Whether	 thetransaction  is	 a  usufructuary mortgage  or  an  anomalousmortgage, in the circumstances of the case, there will1094not  be	 any  difference  in  the  matter  of  rendition  ofaccounts,  for	in  the	 ultimate  analysis,  as  we   wouldpresently show, the true construction of the relevant  termsof  the	 document  would afford an answer  to  the  questionraised.	  We  shall,  therefore,  proceed  to  consider	 thequestion on the alternative basis.If  it was a usufructuary mortgage, it is contended  by	 theappellant  that he was not liable to render accounts to	 themortgagor,  as, Linder the mortgage deed, he was  authorizedto take the receipts in lieu of interest within the  meaningof  s.	77 of the Transfer of Property	Act.   The  relevantprovisions of the Transfer of Property Act are as follows:"Section  76: When during the continuance of  the  mortgage,the mortgagee takes possession of the mortgaged property,-(g)he  must keep clear, full and accurate accounts of  allsums  received	and spent by him as mortgagee, and,  at	 anytime  during  the  continuance of  the	mortgage,  give	 themortgagor,  at	his request and cost, true  copies  of	suchaccounts and of the vouchers by which they are supported;(h)his	receipts  from the mortgaged property,	or,  wheresuch  property	is  personally	occupied  by  him,  a	fairoccupation-rent	 in respect thereof, shall, after  deductingthe  expenses  properly incurred for the management  of	 theproperty  and  the collection of rents and profits  and	 theother  expenses	 mentioned  in	clauses	 (c)  and  (d),	 andinterest thereon, be debited against him in reduction of theamount	(if any) from time to time due to him on account  ofinterest  and, so far as such receipts exceed  any  interestdue,  in  reduction or discharge of the	 mortgage-money	 thesurplus, if any, shall be paid to the mortgagor;"  Section 77: Nothing in section 76, clauses (b), (d),	 (g)and (h), applies to cases where there is a contract  betweenthe  mortgagee and the mortgagor that the receipts from	 themortgaged  property  shall, so long as the mortgagee  is  inpossession of the property, be taken in lieu of interest  onthe principal money, or in lieu of such interest and definedportions of the principal."1095Section	 76(g)	of the Transfer of Property  Act  imposes  aliability on a mortgagee to keep, full and accurate accountssupported  by  vouchers.  So too, he is	 under	a  statutoryliability  under cl.  'h' to debit the nett receipts of	 themortgaged  property  in deduction of the amount due  to	 himfrom  time  to time on account of interest  and	 where	suchreceipts exceed any interest due, in reduction and dischargeof the mortgagemoney and to pay the surplus, if any, to	 themortgagor.   Therefore,	 every mortgagee  in  possession  isbound  to  keep	 clear, full and accurate  accounts  and  torender	 the  accounts	to  the	 mortgagor  in	the   mannerprescribed  in cl.  'h'.  But s. 77 enacts an  exception  tothe  mortgagee's liability under cls. (g) and (h) of s.	 76.Under  that section (s. 77), if there is a contract  betweenthe  mortgagor	and the mortgagee, whereunder it  is  agreedthat the receipts of the mortgaged property should, so	longas the mortgagee is in possession of the property, be  takenin lieu of interest and a defined portion of the  principal,the mortgagee is freed from the statutory liability to	keepaccounts  or  to  render accounts to the  mortgagor  in	 themanner	prescribed  under cls. (g) and (h) of s. 76  of	 theAct.   This is so because, the receipts are set off  againstthe   interest,	 and  there  is	 nothing  to  account	for.Therefore, to insist upon the mortgagee to keep accounts  orrender	accounts to the mortgagor would be an  empty  forma-lity.	The essential condition for the application of	thissection is that the receipts of the property should be takenin  lieu  of interest or in lieu of interest and  a  definedportion	 of  the principal.  The contention of	the  learnedcounsel	 for  the respondents is that  unless  the  contractauthorizes the mortgagee to take the entire receipts in lieuof  interest or in lieu of interest and defined portions  ofprincipal,  this section cannot be invoked; for it  is	saidthat the principle behind the section is that one is set offagainst	 the other, with the result, there is nothing to  beaccounted  for,	 whereas if only a part of the	receipts  isagreed	to  be	paid towards interest or  in  lieu  of	suchinterest and defined portions of the"-principal, there wouldbe  surplus in the hands of the mortgagee, which would	haveto be1096accounted  for.	  On  the  basis  of  that  distinction,  anargument  is advanced to the effect that, as in the  presentcase, the mortgagee had to pay a sum of ]Is. 435-4-0 to	 themortgagor, he was not authorized by the mortgagor tinder theagreement  to take the entire receipts in lieu of  interest,etc.,  within  the  meaning  of s. 77  of  the	Transfer  ofProperty  Act.	To put it differently, the argument is	thatout  of the receipts from the mortgaged property  a  portionwas  paid to the mortgagor and the mortgagee was  authorizedto take only the balance in lieu of interest and, therefore,there  was  no	contract  between  the	mortgagor  and	 themortgagee for the latter taking the entire receipts in	lieuof interest.  We find it difficult to accept this  argument.Under Exhibit A(3), the mortgagee undertook an unconditionalobligation  to	pay a sum of Rs. 435-4-0 in respect  of	 theproperty mortgaged to him.  This obligation was not made  todepend upon the receipts from the property in the possessionof the mortgagee.  Whether there was yield from the land  ornot, he had to make the payment to the mortgagor.  Though hehad to pay the rent as a consideration for his enjoyment  ofthe  land as a mortgagee, his liability did not depend	uponthe  receipts  from the land-he had to pay, receipts  or  noreceipts.   His	 liability  was also  not  confined  to	 thereceipts, for he was under a personal obligation to pay	 theamount	to the mortgagor.  On the other hand, the  mortgageewas expressly authorized to take the entire income from	 theland  and  appropriate	the same towards  interest  and	 themortgagor  agreed not to put forward any claim or demand  inrespect of any increase in the produce.	 Shortly stated, themortgagee was under a personal obligation to pay Rs. 435-4-0to the mortgagor and had a right to take the entire receiptsfrom  the  land	 in lieu of interest.  It  is  not  a  case,therefore,  where receipts from the mortgaged  property	 aredivided	 between mortgagor and mortgagee, but one where	 themortgagee  pays	 a  specified amount to	 the  mortgagor	 andappropriates  the entire receipts in lieu of interest.	 We,therefore, hold that, under the mortgage deed, Exhibit A(3),there is a contract between the1097mortgagee  and the mortgagor within the meaning of s. 77  ofthe  Transfer  of  Property  Act, to  the  effect  that	 thereceipts from the mortgaged property should be taken in lieuof interest.Relying	 upon  the  judgment of the High  Court,  a  furtherattempt was made by the learned Counsel for the	 respondentsto contend that the mention of a specified rate of  interestin  the	 document is indicative of the fact that  under	 thedocument the mortgagee, would have to take only such part ofthe  nett receipts sufficient to discharge the interest	 andcredit the balance to the mortgagor.  The mere mention of  arate  of interest does not necessarily lead to	the  conclu-sion.  The rate of interest may be stipulated for estimatingthe amount payable towards interest so that the parties	 mayvisualize whether the nett receipts could reasonably be	 setoff  against the interest.  The rate may also be  given	 forother reasons.The  Judicial Committee, in Pandit Bachchu Lal	v.  ChaudhriSyed  Mohammad Mah (1), held that notwithstanding  the	factthat  a	 particular rate of interest was  mentioned  in	 themortgage deed, there was a contract within the meaning of s.77  of	the Transfer of Property Act.  It was a	 case  of  amortgage  with possession and a particular rate of  interestwas  mentioned in the mortgage deed.  There was a  provisionfor  repayment of the principal either in whole or  in	partbefore the stipulated period, but it was otherwise  providedthat  the mortgagee should appropriate the  surplus  profitstowards	 interest,  he having no claim to interest  and	 themortgagors  having  no	claim to  the  profits.	  The  PrivyCouncil	 held, on a construction of the mortgage deed,	thatthe said deed contained a contract within the meaning of  s.77 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882.In  Exhibit A-3, though the rate of interest is stated at  iper  cent. per month, it was obviously mentioned  to  enablethe   parties  to  approximately  fix  the  amount   to	  beappropriated  by  the  mortgagee from and out  of  the	rentreceived  from	the thikadar.  No doubt, the  same  rate  ofinterest is also mentioned when the(1)  (1933) 37 C.W.N. 457.1098parties	 are dealing with their rights after the  expiry  ofthe thikadari interest, but in more than one place they havestated	in  clear and unambiguous terms that  the  mortgageecould appropriate the produce towards interest and that	 themortgagor would not put forward any sort of claim or  demandin  respect of any increase in the produce.  In view of	 theclearly	 expressed intention of the parties, we cannot	holdfrom  the mere fact that the rate of interest  is  mentionedthat  the document does not come under the purview of s.  77of the Transfer of Property Act.  We hold that s. 77 of	 theTransfer  of  Property	Act  applies  to  the  document	 andtherefore the mortgagee is not liable to render any  accountto the mortgagor.On  the footing that the mortgage is an anomalous  mortgage,we  arrive at the same result.	The learned Counsel for	 theappellant  contends  that if the mortgage  is  an  anomalousmortgage, the parties are only governed by the provisions ofs.  98	of  the	 Transfer of Property Act  and	not  by	 theprovisions of s. 77 of the Act.	 Section 98 says:"  In  the  case of an anomalous mortgage,  the	 rights	 andliabilities  of	 the parties shall be  determined  by  theircontract  as evidenced in the mortgage-deed, and, so far  assuch contract does not extend, by local usage.The question whether this section excludes the operation  ofother  relevant provisions of the Act, including s.77,	neednot be considered in this case, for, whether s.77   applies,as the learned Counsel for the respondents contends, or	 theterms  of  the	contract  would govern	the  rights  of	 theparties,  as the learned counsel for the  appellant  argues,the result would be the same for the question to be  decidedis  whether under the terms of the mortgage,  the  mortgageehas  the  right to appropriate the entire nett	receipts  inlieu  of  interest,.  We have already held that	 in  ExhibitA(3)  not  only	 there	is such a recital  but	there  is  aspecific term whereunder the mortgagor expressly agreed	 notto claim any produce received by the mortgagee.	 Whether  s.77 applies or not, under the express terms of the contract,1099the  appellant	is  not liable to render  accounts  for	 theexcess receipts.No  other  point is raised before us.  In  the	result,	 thedecree	of  the	 High Court is set aside  and  that  of	 theSubordinate Judge is restored.	The appellant will have	 hiscosts throughout.Appeal allowed.