PETITIONER:LAXMI DEVI SUGAR MILLS	Vs.RESPONDENT:NAND KISHORE SINGH.DATE OF JUDGMENT:04/10/1956BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR    7		  1956 SCR  746ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Application for permission to dismiss  aworkman-Resolution  passed at a meeting of the Labour  Unionfor  removal  of the General Manager-Vice President  of	 theUnion  addressing the meeting to instigate the	workers,  ifguilty	of  misconduct and  indiscipline-Refusal  to  answerqueries	  by   the   General   Manager,	  if   an   act	  ofinsubordination-Theory	 of  dual  capacity,   if   tenable-Dismissal,  if can be permitted on a ground not included  inthe  charge  -Industrial Disputes (Appellate  Tribunal)	 Act(XLVIII	 of 1950) -U.  P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947	 (U.P. Act XXVIII of 1947),a.     3,   Standing   Orders,	 cl.L(1)(j).HEADNOTE:The respondent, a stenotypist and the Vice-President of	 theLabour	Union, was charged by the appellant with  misconductand indiscipline under clause L(1)(j) of the Standing Ordersof  the	 Government  of Uttar Pradesh  for  instigating	 theworkmen to pass a resolution for the removal of the  GeneralManager by a defamatory speech delivered at a meeting of theUnion.	The question in issue was whether the respondent  bydoing  so had committed "any act subversive  of	 discipline"within	the  meaning  of  that clause.	 In  course  of	 thecorrespondence with the General Manager over the matter,  asalso during the enquiry made by him, the respondent took  upthe  attitude that he, as a stenotypist, was not  answerableto his employers for his activities as Vice-President of theUnion  outside the factory area and persistently refused  toanswer	questions  categorically put to him by	the  GeneralManager.   The	appellant applied to  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  under s. 22 of the Industrial Disputes  (AppellateTribunal)  Act	of  1960  for  permission  to  dismiss	 therespondent.   That  application	 having	 been  refused	 theappellant  obtained Special Leave to appeal to	the  SupremeCourt  and  it	was  contended	that  the  passing  of	 theresolution and the refusal to answer questions in course  ofthe   correspondence,and  the  enquiry	amounted   to	actssubversive of discipline and the respondent was liable to bedismissed.Hold, that it was perfectly legitimate for the Union to passthe, resolution they did and no guilt either of a breach  ofthe  Standing Orders or of committing an act  subversive  ofdiscipline  could attach to the respondent for what part  hetook  in the meeting as Vice President of the Union and	 theorder  of dismissal passed by the Labour Appellate  Tribunalmust be affirmed.That where, as in the present case, the members of the Unionwere  of  opinion  that	 the  circumstances  warranted	 theresolution, it747was  not  for  the court to scrutinies	the  correctness  orotherwise the reasons for it.Held further, that the respondent was primarily an employ ofthe  appellant before he could be anything else and  was  indut  bound to answer such queries as were put to him by	 theGener  Manager and his persistent refusal to do so,  on	 thepretext	 of  a dual capacity,  amounted	 to  insubordinationwhich  would have justifie his dismissal but  the  appellanthaving	omitted	 to include this as ground  in	the  charge-sheet, which was served on the responds and formed the basisof the enquiry, could not be allowed to rel on it.JUDGMENT:CiviL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 162 of 1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  21st day of July 1953 of the Labour Appellate  Tribunalof  India,  Lucknow in Miscellane ous Case No.	C-III-33  of1952.H.J. Umrigar and R. A. Govind for the appellantB.P. Maheshwari for the respondent.1956.  October 4. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byBHAGWATI  J.-The  Labour  Appellate  Tribunal  of  India  atLucknow	 dismissed  the application of	the  appellant	madeunder  section	22  of the  Industrial	Disputes  (AppellateTribunal)   Act,  1950,	 for  permission  to   dismiss	 therespondent,  its  workman, and the appellant  obtained	fromthis Court Special Leave to Appeal against that order.The  respondent has been working as a Steno-typist with	 theappellant  since 3rd December, 1946, and is also  the  Vice-President of the Union of workers which is affiliated to theIndian	National Trade Union Congress and is known as  ChiniMills  Mazdoor	Sangh One M. P. Singh has  at  all  relevanttimes  been  and  is  still  the  General  Manager  of	 theappellant.The  relations	between the appellant and its work  men	 aregoverned  by the Standing Orders framed by mutual  agreementbetween	 the  Labour and the Sugar Mills  in  Uttar  Pradeshwhich have been approved by97748the  Government of Uttar Pradesh.  ClauseL(1)(j)of the	saidStanding Orders runs as under:-"Drunkenness or gambling or riotous or disorderly  behaviourwhile  on duty in factory premises, or in quarters  providedby  the	 mills	or  elsewhere  or  any	act  subversive	  ofdiscipline".These are among the items of misconduct which would  entitlethe appellant, after due enquiry, to dismiss a workman	fromits employ.There  were longstanding disputes between the appellant	 andits  workmen since October, 1946, and on the 23rd  February,1949,  Kedar  Nath  Khetan,  one  of  the  partners  of	 theappellant,   wrote  to	Shri  Kashi  Nath  Pandey,   GeneralSecretary,   Indian  National  Sugar   Workers	 Federation,promising  to  remove  the General Manager as  soon  as	 theseason	of  the	 Chhitauni factory  was	 over.	 There	was,however, an agreement arrived at between the partners of thefactory	 and  the  Chini Mills Mazdoor	Sangh  on  the	13thSeptember,  1949, under which the demand for the removal  ofthe  General  Manager  was withdrawn by	 the  workers.	 Thedisputes,  however, continued and matters came to a head  in1952.	In May, 1952, the management charged 76	 members  ofthe  Union for participation in a  'Tools-down'strike.	 Thematter	went up to the Labour Appellate Tribunal  which,  byits  award, reinstated all the 76 workmen.   The  managementpreferred  writ petitions Nos. 402 and 409 in the  AllahabadHigh Court but the same also were dismissed.  Special  Leavewas obtained from this Court against those decisions of	 theAllahabad High Court and the same are pending.During the pendency of the application of the management forthe  discharge	of  the said 76 workmen	 before	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal., the workers held a meeting on the	10thJune,  1952,  near an old mosque outside  the  factory	areato  consider the situation arising out of the suspension  ofthe  76 workmen and the ways and means of meeting the  same.The respondent participated in the said meeting as the Vice-President  of  the Union and made a speech  criticising	 theattitude of the General Manager in terms749which  were set out in the report dated the 10th June,	1952submitted  by  two  workers by name Ganga  Dhar	 Tewari	 andJamuna	Prasad	to the General Manager.	 The speech  of	 therespondent as reported there was to the following effect:-"The  General  Manager of this factory wants  to  crush	 theLabour movement from the very beginning.  He allowed some ofhis  intermediaries to join strike when Shri  Shibban.	 LalSaxena	had  served  a	strike notice.	 His  men  had	alsopersuaded  some	 of our members to join the  strike.   As  aresult	of this we had decided to launch a strike.   On	 theother  hand, the Manager Sahib was sitting on the phone	 forthe  permission of the Collector to dismiss all	 our  fellowworkers.   Shri	 Moti Lal Singh was able  to  discover	thisconspiracy and he at once prevented us from going on strike.Then Manager Sahib could not succeed in his plan.This  time  he	has falsely accused 76	of  our	 workers  ofresorting  to Tools-down strike.  These workers will  surelybe reinstated.	But our efforts are rendered useless due  tothe  acts of the Government Officers; the Collector of	thisDistrict  is  getting some thing secretly from	the  ManagerSahib.	 We  have only one alternative open to	us,  let  usagain  agitate for his dismissal.  Many of  the	 proprietorshave written to me against him".A resolution was moved at that meeting for the reinstatementof the 76 workers and dismissal of Shri Madan Pal Singh, theGeneral Manager and the same was passed.As  stated  above,  the two workers Ganga  Dhar	 Tewari	 andJamuna	Prasad reported the proceedings of the said  meetingto  the General Manager on the very same day.	The  GeneralManager thereafter addressed a letter to the respondent	 on-the  16th July, 1952  stating that he, the  respondent,	 waspresent	 in and addressed a meeting held on the	 10th  June,1952,  wherein,	 among other matters, a resolution  for	 thereinstatement of the 76 suspended workers and the removal ofthe General Manager was passed.	 He asked the respondent  togive him information regard-750ing the above-mentiond facts within 24 hours of the  receiptof  the	 letter.  The respondent replied on the	 17th  July,1952, stating that he never attended any meeting whatever inhis  capacity  as  the	Steno-typist  of  the  factory	 andexpressed  his inability, therefore, to say anything in	 thecapacity in which the letter dated the 16th July, 1952,	 hadbeen  addressed	 by the General Manager to him.	  Not  beingcontent	 with bypassing the whole issue in this	 manner,  heproceeded  to  observe	that it was none  of  the  factory'sbusiness  to  seek information from him	 for  his  personal,social or political activities outside the factory area.  Hestated	that as a matter of courtesy any  information  askedfor  would  have been supplied by him, but,  as	 the  thingsstood,	he very much regretted his inability to comply	withthe  wishes  of the General Manager.   The  General  Manageragain addressed a letter to the respondent on the 17th July,1952,  stating that he was entitled to seek the	 informationfrom him even in his personal capacity and asked him to	 lethim  have the reply to the queries contained in	 the  letterdated  the 16th July, 1952.  The respondent, in	 his  letterdated  the 17th July, 1952 in reply, observed that  some  ofthe  conclusions drawn by the General Manager  were  "simplyout  of	 self-complacency" and he  respectfully	 begged-  todiffer	from  the General Manager.  He stated  that  he	 hadnothing	 further to add to his earlier reply dated the	17thJuly, 1952.The  General  Manager  waited for a while  and	on  the	 1stAugust,	 1952,	served	upon the  respondent  a	 chargesheetcalling upon the respondent to show cause why action  shouldnot  be	 taken	against	 him under  clause  L(1)(j)  of	 theStanding  Orders for making a speech in a meeting held	nearthe  local  mosque on the 10th June, 1952,  'wherein,  amongother defamatory remarks he, the respondent, instigated	 theworkers	 to  take  steps  for the  removal  of	the  GeneralManager.  The respondent was asked to submit his explanationlatest	by 10 a.m. on the 2nd August, 1952.  The  respondentsubmitted  his	written	 statement  accordingly	 wherein  hestated that there was absolutely no justification whatsoeverfor charging him with broach of751the  Standing  Orders under clause L(1)(j).  He	 denied	 theallegations  contained in the charge-sheet and wound  up  byasking the General Manager to enlighten him as to under whatrules of the Factories Act, Commercial Establishments Act orthe  Standing Orders, written replies in the  matters  otherthan  one's daily routine work of the factory were  demandedat such short notice.The General Manager fixed 10 a.m. on Monday the 4th  August,1952, for the holding of the enquiry and the respondent	 wascalled	upon  to  present himself in time and  he  was	alsointimated  that	 he would be at liberty to produce  oral  ordocumentary  evidence in defence against the charges  framedagainst him.An  enquiry was accordingly (held by the General Manager  onthe 4th August, 1952.  The proceedings thereat were recordedin  the	 form  of questions  and  answers.   The  respondentadopted an attitude which was consistent with the one  whichhe  had	 adopted in the course of the  correspondence  abovereferred to.  He refused to answer the questions which	werecategorically  put by the General Manager to him and  statedthat  he had nothing -to add to his written  statement.	  Healso  took up the attitude that if he had taken part in	 anymeeting	 held under the auspices of the Chini Mills  MazdoorSangh outside the factory, the General Manager should  writeto  the	 officials of the Sangh for  necessary	information.When  it  was specifically put to him that  no	confidentialwork  was  taken  from	him as he  had	been  taking  activeinterest  in the anti-management activities maliciously	 andhad  been exploiting the poor labour to force himself  beingconfirmed  by the management, he said that he did not  agreewith it and it was not a question which needed any reply.As  a  result of the enquiry, the General Manager  made	 hisreport on the 24th October, 1952, wherein he found that	 therespondent  had made a speech exhorting the workmen  of	 thefactory	 to pass a resotion for the removal of	the  GeneralManager, that the management was bound to lose confidence ifa worker who had excited other workers against the General752Manager	 of  the concern refused to give a direct  reply  todirect questions, that, in the absence of a Stenotypist	 whocould  enjoy  the  confidence  of  the	management,  it	 wasimpossible  to	run  the factory without  the  risk  of	 anytrouble	  and  that  the  respondent  was  thus	 guilty	  ofmisconduct and acts subversive of discipline.  As,  however,there  was  a  pendency of a proceeding	 before	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal, an application should be made  to	thatauthority for permitting his dismissal.This report was accepted by the management and the appellantmade  the  application under section 22	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes  (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950, for permission  todismiss the respondent from its employ.The  Labour  Appellate Tribunal embarked on the	 freedom  ofspeech	vouchsafed  to the citizens of India  under  article19(1)(a)  of the Constitution, observed that the  making  ofthe speech in question at the meeting held by the respondentas  the Vice-President of the Union was within the scope  ofthe  legitimate	 activities of the Union and held  that	 thespeech	said  to  have been made by the	 respondent  at	 themeeting	 could	not  be	 said to be  an	 act  subversive  ofdiscipline.    The   application  of   the   appellant	 wasaccordingly dismissed.	Hence this appeal before us.The only question for determination before us is whether thespeech	made  by the respondent at the meeting held  on	 the10th  June, 1952, was an act subversive of discipline.	 Therespondent  was the Vice President of the Union	 and,  primafacie,	any  resolution passed by the Union asking  for	 theremoval of the General Manager would be perfectly legitimateif the members of the Union thought that there were  circum-stances	 warranting the same.  The correctness or  otherwiseof the reasons given for such removal would not be liable toscrutiny  by the Court, the only thing requisite being	thatthe  Union was not acting mala fide or was not	actuated  byany malice or illwill against the General Manager in passingsuch  resolution.  The resolution by itself would  not	havethe effect of harming the General Manager at all,		 753It  would  have to be forwarded to the	management  and	 themanagement  would  take such steps as it may be	 advised  onreceipt	 of  the  resolution.	It would  then	be  for	 themanagement to find for itself whether the reasons given	 forthe  removal of the General Manager were such as to  warranthis  removal.	The  management would then,  if	 it  thoughtnecessary,  institute proper enquiries and come to  his	 ownconclusion  as to the desirability or otherwise of  the	 re-moval  of  the	General Manager.  So far  as  the  Union  isconcerned,  apart from mala fides or malice or illwill,	 theact  of	 its passing the resolution would be  innocuous	 andwould  not be liable to be visited with any  punishment	 andthe  members of the Union would no be committing any  breachof  the Standing Orders nor would they be guilty of any	 actsubversive  of discipline.  The gravamen of the charge	madeby the management against the respondent, however, was	thatthe  latter  was not merely responsible for the	 passing  ofsuch  resolution,  but,	 in  the speech	 which	he  made  insupport,  he  gave vent to such expressions  as	 were  quitefalse and defamatory and was actuated by malice against	 theGeneral	 Manager.   He Edited the members of the  Union	 whowere  there assembled against the General Manager  with	 theresult that his act was thus subversive of discipline.	 Thespeech had the effect of lowering the General Manager in theesteem	of  the	 workmen and subjecting	 him  to  hatred  orridicule  and  the necessary effect of	making	such  speechbefore	the workmen would be that they would look down	uponthe General Manager and would not be amenable to  disciplineand  it would be impossible to conduct the  management	withefficiency  with  such disgruntled workmen in  the  factory.The  words  used by the respondent were, therefore,  it	 wasurged, calculated to undermine the discipline in the factoryand his act was, therefore, subversive of discipline  bring-ing him well within the mischief of clause L(1) (j). of	 theStanding Orders.It  was further urged that the conduct of the respondent  inthe  course of the correspondence which took  place  betweenthe General Manager and himself754was,  to say the least, impudent.  He relied upon  his	dualpersonality  distinguishing  between  his  capacity  as	 theSteno-typist  and his capacity as the Vice-President of	 theUnion.	The act complained of was attributed to his capacityas  the Vice-President of the Union and he refused  to	giveany  reply  to the queries addressed to him-because  in	 theletter;	 addressed  by	the General Manager to	him  he	 wasdescribed  as  the  Steno-typist.  He refused  to  give	 anyinformation  to	 the  General  Manager	and  asked  him	  tocommunicate  with the Sangh or the Union if any	 informationwas  required by the General Manager in the matter  of	whattook  place  at the meeting of the Union on the	 10th  June,1952.	In the enquiry also, he adopted a  similar  attitudeand refused to answer the direct questions addressed to	 himby the General Manager in regard to the proceedings of	thatmeeting.It  was strenuously urged before us by the  learned  counselfor  the  appellant that this conductor the  respondent	 wassubversive of discipline and amounted to such misconduct  aswould entitle the appellant to dismiss him from its  employ.There  is considerable force in this argument and we are  ofthe   opinion  that  the  respondent  adopted  an   attitudeunbecoming  an	employee  of the appellant.   He  adopted  atruculent  attitude in the course of the correspondence	 andresorted  to the theory of his dual personality refusing  toanswer the queries addressed to him by the General  Manager.This  attitude was, to say the least,  reprehensible.	Eventhough	he happened to occupy what he considered to  be	 theaugust	position of the Vice President of the Union  he	 didnot cease to be an emPloyee of the appellant and the attemptto distinguish between his capacity as the Steno-typist	 andhis  capacity  as  the	Vice-President	of  the	 Union	 wasabsolutely  puerile.  He ought to have realised that he	 wasfirst-and  foremost an employee of the appellant and owed  aduty  to the appellant to answer all the queries  which	 hadbeen  addressed to him by the General Manager.	His  evasionto  give  such replies on the pretext of  shielding  himselfunder  his capacity as the Vice-President of the  Union	 wasabsolutely		755unjustifiable  and  if such insubordination  and  breach  ofdiscipline had been the subject-'Matter of the charges	madeagainst	 him,  we do not see how the respondent	 could	haveescaped the punishment of dismissal.Similar is the position in regard to the attitude which	 therespondent adopted at the enquiry.  He refused to answer thedirect	questions  which were addressed to him and  had	 thetemerity  to  ask  the General Manager to  see	his  writtenstatement and find out for himself the answers to the  same.To say the least, the respondent was guilty of	insubordina-tion  and if his attitude was such as would not	 conduce  tothe  maintenance of discipline in the factory, here also  wewould  have  found it difficult to  resist  the	 appellant'sclaim  for his dismissal if he had been charged with  havingbeen guilty of such misconduct.The charge-sheet, however, only complained about the  speechwhich  he  had made on the 10th June, 1952,  wherein,  amongother defamatory remarks, he, the respondent, had instigatedthe  workers  to take steps for the removal of	the  GeneralManager.   The	enquiry which was held on  the	4th  August,1952,  also concentrated on this particular charge  and	 thereport	which  was made by the General Manager on  the	24thOctober,  1952,	 also found that the respondent had  made  aspeech exhorting the workers to pass the resolution for	 theremoval of the General Manager.	 The acts of insubordinationcalculated to undermine the discipline in the factory  whichwe  have adverted to above were neither the  subject-mattersof  the	 charge	 nor were they relied upon  by	the  GeneralManager in his report as the grounds of misconduct entitlingthe  management to dismiss the respondent' from its  employ.The passing of the resolution for the removal of the GeneralManager	 by  itself  was  not, as  already  stated,  an	 actsubversive   of	 discipline  and  would	 not   entitle	 themanagement to dismiss him and we are of the opinion that, onthe  record as it stood, the Labour Appellate  Tribunal	 wasjustified  in  refusing to the appellant the  permission  todismiss the respondent from its employ.The charge-sheet which was furnished by the appel-98756lant to the respondent formed the basis of the enquiry whichwas held by the General Manager and the appellant could	 notbe  allowed to justify its action on any other grounds	thanthose  contained  in the chargesheet.	The  respondent	 nothaving	been charged with the acts of insubordination  whichwould have really justified the appellant in dismissing	 himfrom  its employ, the appellant could not take advantage  ofthe  same  even though these acts could be brought  home  tohim.   We have, therefore, come to the	conclusion'that	 theorder  made  by the' Labour Appellate Tribunal	was  correcteven  though  we have done so on grounds  other	 than  thosewhich commended themselves to it.We accordingly dismiss this appeal but having regard to	 theconduct of the respondent which We have characterised  aboveas  reprehensible we feel that the ends of justice  will  bemet  if we ordered that each party do bear and pay  its	 owncosts of this appeal.Appeal dismissed.