PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,BIHAR AND ORISSA	Vs.RESPONDENT:SRI RAMAKRISHNA DEODATE OF JUDGMENT:14/10/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  239		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 176 CITATOR INFO : R	    1965 SC 568	 (12)ACT:       Income	Tax-Forest   trees-Income  from	  sale	 of-Whether       agricultural income-Exemption from taxation-Burden of proof-       Findings	 of the Tribunal-When binding on High  Court-Indian       Income-tax  Act, 1922 (XI Of 1922), SS. 2(1),  4(3)  (viii),       66(1).HEADNOTE:The respondent, the proprietor of an estate, derived  incomefrom  the sale of trees growing in his forests	and  claimedthat it was agricultural income as defined in s. 2(1) of theIndian	Income-tax  Act, 1922, and that it was	exempt	frompayment	 of income-tax under s. 4(3)(viii).   The  AppellateTribunal  found	 that the evidence to show  that  there	 wasplantation   by	 the  estate  authorities  was	meagre	 andunsubstantial, that the trees in question must have been  ofspontaneous  growth  and that the respondent had  failed  toestablish  facts  on  which he could  claim  exemption.	  Onreference, the High Court took the view that though trees inthe  forest had not been planted by the estate	authorities,the   latter  had  performed  subsequent  operations  of   asubstantial character for the maintenance and improvement ofthe forest, and that the income was, therefore, agriculturalincome.	  It also held that the onus was on  the  income-taxauthorities  to prove that the income derived from the	saleof  trees  was	not agricultural income and  that  they	 hadfailed to show that the income fell outside the scope of theexemption mentioned in s. 4(3)(viii) Of the Act.Held, that the High Court erred in placing the burden on theincome-tax authorities to prove that the income sought to betaxed  was not agricultural income.  The principle has	beenwell  established that where a person claims the benefit  ofan  exemption  under the provisions of the Act,	 he  has  toestablish it.177Commissioner  of  Income-tax v. Venkataswamy  Naidu,  [1956]291.T.R. 529, followed.The question whether the trees were of spontaneous growth orwere  products of plantation was essentially a	question  offact  and  the	finding of the Tribunal on  this  point	 wasbinding	 on the High Court in a reference under s. 66(1)  ofthe Act.Held, further, that the income received by the respondent bythe sale of trees in his forests was not agricultural incomeas  the trees had not been planted by him, and that  it	 wasimmaterial that he had maintained a large establishment	 forthe  purpose of preserving the forests and assisting in	 thegrowth of the trees. The  Commissioner of Income-tax, West Bengal,	Calcutta  v.Raja Benoy Kumar Sahas Roy, [1958] S.C.R. 101, explained andfollowed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.426 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 21, 1955,  ofthe  Orissa  High Court at Cuttack in  Special	JurisdictionCase No. 179 of 1951.A.   N.	 Kripal,  R.  H.  Dhebar  and  D.  Gupta,  for	 theappellant.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, M. S. K. Sastri and R. JagannathaRao, for the respondent.1958.  October 14.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AIYAR, J.-This is an appeal against the judgmentof  the High Court of Orrissa in a reference under s.  66(1)of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, hereinafter referred  toas  the	 Act, and the point for decision is  whether  incomereceived  by the respondent by the sale of trees growing  inhis  forests  is agricultural  income exempt  from  taxationunder s. 4(3)(viii) of the Act.The respondent is the proprietor of the impartable zamin  ofJaipur	in Koraput District.  The estate is of the  area  of12,000 sq. miles of which 1540 sq. miles are reserve  forestand 100 sq. miles, protected forest.  The respondent derivesincome from the forests by the sale of timber such as  teak,salwood, lac, myrabolam, tamarind, cashewnuts and  firewood.There is no23178dispute either as to the receipt of such income or as to itsquantum.   All	tat  appears in the  account  books  of	 therespondent.  The point in controversy is as to whether	thisincome	is chargeable to tax.  It is the contention  of	 therespondent that this is agricultural income as defined	ins.2(1)  of  the Act, and that it is,  in	consequence,  exemptunder s. 4(3)(viii).  By his 31, 1943, the Income-tax  orderdated January Officer held that the forests in question	 hadnot been proved to have been planted by the respondent, thatthe  trees were of spontaneous growth, and that	 the  incometherefrom was not within the exemption under s.	 4(3)(viii);and  this  order was confirmed on appeal  by  the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner.  The respondent took the matter  infurther	 appeal	 to the Appellate Tribunal,  and  there	 putforward the contention that the Incometax Officer had failedto  take  into account a letter of the Dewan dated  June  3,1942,  which  gave  a detailed	account	 of  the  operationscarried	 on by the estate in the rearing and maintenance  offorests and that on the facts mentioned in that letter,	 hisfinding	 that  there  had been no plantation  of  trees	 waserrolieous.  By its order dated April 9, 1946, the  Tribunalaccepted this contention, and directed a fresh enquiry	intothe facts mentioned in the said letter.Pursuant  to  this  order,  the	 Income-tax  Officer   againenquired  into the matter.  He observed that though he	gaveample  opportunities to the respondent to prove	 that  therewas  plantation	 of trees by the estate, no  materials	wereplaced	in proof of that fact and that	neither	 -plantationbooks  nor any working plans for timber plantation had	beenproduced.   He accordingly held that the forests  had  grownnaturally,  and that the income therefrom was assessable  totax.   On this report, the appeal again came up for  hearingbefore	the  Tribunal.	 The main contention  urged  by	 therespondent at the hearing was that the facts showed that theforests	 which	had  yielded income  during  the  year,'  ofaccount	 could	not have been the virgin forests  which	 hadoriginally  grown spontaneously on the hills,  because	theyhad  been  periodically denuded by the hill  tribes  in	 theprocess of Podu cultivation carried on by179them.	What this Podu cultivation means is thus  stated  inthe ]District Gazetteer, Vishakapatnam, 1907:"  This consists in felling a piece of jungle,	burning	 thefelled trees and undergrowth, sowing dry grain broadcast  inthe  ashes  (without any kind of tilling) for two  years  insuccession,  and  then	abandoning  the	 plot  for   anotherelsewhere."The  argument of the respondent was that as a result of	 thePodu   cultivation,   the  original  forests   should	havedisappeared  and that the trees that had subsequently  growninto  forest  and sold as timber must have been	 planted  byhuman  agency  and their sale proceeds must  accordingly  beagricultural  income.	Dealing with  this  contention,	 theTribunal  observed  that  though there	had  been  extensivedestruction  of forests in the process of Podu	cultivation,nevertheless,  considerable  areas of virgin  forests  stillsurvived,  that	 the  evidence	of  actual  cultivation	 andplantation   by	 the  zamin  authorities  was	meagre	 andunsubstantial,	that  no expenses were shown  to  have	beenincurred  on  this account prior to 1904,  that	 the  amountshown  as  spent during that year was negligible,  that	 thetrees  planted	then could not have been the trees  sold  astimber during the assessment years, and that the  respondentbad  failed  to	 establish facts on  which  he	could  claimexemption.   It should be mentioned that this order  coveredthe assessments for five years from 1942-43 to 1946-47,	 thefacts relating to the character of the income being the samefor  all the years.  On the application of  the	 respondent,the  Tribunal  referred	 the  following	 question  for	 thedecision of the High Court :"  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances the  incomederived from forest in this case is taxable under the IndianIncome-tax Act."The reference was heard by Panigrahi, C. J., and Misra,	 J.,who answered it in the negative.  They observed :" It appears to us that the cases as set out by both partieshave been put too high.	 The department takes the view	thatunless there is actual cultivation of the180soil the income from the forest trees cannot be regard. ,ledas  agricultural  income.  The fact that  the  assessee	 hasspent some money and planted valuable trees in some areas isnot  sufficient	 to  free the income out  of  the  extensiveforests	 which	owe their existence to	spontaneous  growth,from  its liability to taxation.  The assessee on the  otherhand  seeks  to	 create an impression that there  is  not  asingle	tree  of spontaneous growth, in these  forests,	 andsuch  trees as now constitute forests have sprung up out  ofthe stumps left by the hillmen as a result of the system  ofI Podu' cultivation adopted by them.  It appears to us	thatneither of these claims can be regarded as precise orcorrect."The  learned  Judges then observed that the forests  in	 theKoraput	 area  had been under Podu cultivation	for  a	longperiod, and that as the result of that cultivation they	 hadpractically  disappeared  even by the year  1870,  that	 thetrees had subsequently grown into forests and they had	alsobeen  destroyed by about the year 1901, and  that  thereforethere could not have been any virgin forest left  surviving.Then they referred to the fact that the respondent had	beenmaintaining  a large establishment for the  preservation  ofthe  forests, and that there had been  organised  activities(1)  " in fostering the growth of the trees  and  preservingthem from destruction by man and cattle; (2) in	 cultivationof the soil by felling and burning trees from time to  time;(3)  in	 planned exploitation of trees by  marking  out	 theareas  into blocks; (4) in systematic cutting down of  treesof  particular	girth  and at  particular  heights;  (5)  inplanting new trees where patches occur; and (6) in watering,pruning,  dibbling  and digging operations carried  on	fromtime to time ". And they stated their conclusion thus:"   All	 these	and  similar  operations  which	 have	beenundertaken   by	 the  assessee	through	 his   huge   forestestablishment, show that there has been both cultivation  ofthe  soil as well as application of human skill and  labour,both  upon the land and on the trees themselves.  It  cannotbe  assumed therefore that all the trees are of	 spontaneousgrowth.	 The indications, on181the  other hand, appear to be that most of them are  sproutsspringing  from	 burnt stumps.	There is no  basis  for	 theassumption  made by the Income-tax Department that  all	 thetrees are forty years old and that they owe their  existenceto  spontaneous growth.	 Apart from that it will be  noticedthat  what  distinguishes  the present	case  from  all	 thereported  decisions  is that practically the  whole  of	 theforest	area  has  been	 subjected  to	process	 of   'Podu'cultivation  spreading	over several decades so that  it  isimpossible to say that there is any virgin forest left.The onus was certainly upon the department to prove that theincome	derived from the forest was chargeable, to  tax	 andfell outside the scope of the exemption mentioned in Section4(3)(viii)."In  this view, they held that the Department had failed	 -toestablish that the income derived from the sale of trees wasnot  agricultural  income,  and answered  the  reference  infavour	of  the respondent.  The  learned  Judges,  however,granted a certificate to the appellant under s. 66(A)(2)  ofthe Act, and that is how the appeal comes before us.At  the	 very  outset,	we  should  dissent  from  the	viewexpressed  by the learned Judges that the burden is  on	 theDepartment  to prove that the income sought to be  taxed  isnot agricultural income.  The law is well settled that it isfor a person who claims exemption to establish it, and thereis  no reason why it should be otherwise when the  exemptionclaimed	 is  under the Income-tax Act.	The  learned  Judgeswere  of the opinion that their conclusion followed  on	 theprinciple of the law of Income-tax that " where an exemptionis  conferred by a statute, the State must not get  the	 taxeither	directly or indirectly ", and support for this	viewwas sought in the following observations of Lord  Somervell,L. J., in Australian Mutual Provident Societyv.   Inland Revenue Commissioners (1):"  The	rule must be construed together with  the  exemptingprovisions  which,  in	our opinion,  must  be	regarded  asparamount.  So far as the rule, if taken(I)  [1946] 1 All E.R. 528.182in isolation, would have the effect of indirectly  deprivingthe company of any part of the benefit of the exemption, itsoperation  must	 be  cut down, so as  to  prevent  any	suchresult,	 and to allow the exemption to operate to  its	fullextent."These  observations have, in our opinion, no bearing on	 thequestion of burden of proof.  They merely lay down a rule ofconstruction that in determining the scope of a rule, regardmust  be had to the exemptions engrafted thereon,  and	thatthe  rule  must	 be so construed as  not  to  nullify  thoseexemptions.   No such question arises here.  There is  ampleauthority for the view that the principle that a person	 whoclaims	the  benefit of an exemption has  to  establish	 it,applies	 when the exemption claimed is under the  provisionsof  the Income-tax Act.	 Vide the observations of  the	LordPresident  and	of Lord Adam in Maughan v.  Free  Church  ofScotland  (1) and the observations of Lord Hanworth, M.	 R.,in  Keren Kayemeth Le Jisroel Ltd. v. The  Commissioners  ofInland	Revenue (2) at p. 36 that " the right  to  exemptionunder  Section 37 must be established by those who seek	 it.The  onus therefore lies upon the Appellants ", and of	LordMacmillian at p. 58 that,"  In  my opinion, the Appellants, have failed to  bring  itwithin	any  one of these categories and  consequently	havefailed	in what was essential for them to make out,  namely,that  this  Company  is a body of  persons  established	 forcharitable purposes only."The decisions of Indian Courts have likewise ruled and quiterightly	 that it is for those who seek exemption under s.  4of the Act to establish it.  Vide Amritsar Produce  ExchangeLtd.   In re (3) and Sm.  Charusila Dassi and others, In  re(4).  So far as exemption under s. 4(3) (viii) is concerned,the  matter is concluded by a decision of this	Court  givensubsequent   to	  the  decision	 now   under   appeal.	  InCommissioner  of Income-tax v. Venkataswamy Naidu (5),	thisCourt  held,  reversing the judgment of the  High  Court  ofMadras, that it(1) (1803) 3 Tax Cas. 207, 21 O.  (2) (1931) 17 Tax CaS. 27.(3)  [1937]  5 I.T.R. 307, 327.	 (4) [1946] 14	I.T.R.	362,370.(5)  [1956] 29 I.T.R. 529, 534.183was  for the assessee to prove that the income sought to  betaxed was agricultural income exempt from taxation under  s.4(3)(viii).  Bhacgwati, J., delivering the' judgment of	 theCourt observed:" ... the High Court erroneously framed the question in	 thenegative  form	and  placed the	 burden	 on  the  Income-taxAuthorities of proving that the income from the sale of milkreceived by the assessee during the accounting year was	 notagricultural  income.  In order to claim an  exemption	frompayment	 of  incometax	in  respect  of	 what  the  assesseeconsidered  agricultural  income, the assessee	had  to	 putbefore	the  Income-tax Authorities proper  materials  whichwould  enable them to come to a conclusion that	 the  incomewhich was sought to be assessed was agricultural income.  Itwas not for the Income-tax Authorities to prove that it	 wasnot agricultural income.  It was this wrong approach to	 thequestion  which vitiated the judgment of the High Court	 andled it to an erroneousconclusion."On  the	 inerits, the question what is	agricultural  incomewithin	s.  2(1)  of  the Act is the  subject  of  a  recentdecision  of this Court in The Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,West  Bengal,  Calcutta v. Raja Benoy Kumar Sahas  Roy	(1).There, it was held that before an income could be held to beagricultural  income, it must be shown to have been  derivedfrom  land  by	agriculture or by one or the  other  of	 theoperations  described in cls. (i) and (ii) of s. 2(1)(b)  ofthe  Act,  that	 the term St agriculture  "  meant,  in	 itsordinary sense, cultivation of the field, that in that senseit  would  connote such basic operations as tilling  of	 theland,  sowing  of trees, plantation and the like,  and	thatthough	subsequent  operations	such  as  weeding,  pruning,watering,  digging the soil around the growth  and  removingundergrowths  could be regarded as  agricultural  operationswhen they are taken in conjunction with and as	continuationof  the basic operations mentioned before, they	 could	not,apart  from  those operations, be regarded  as	bearing	 thecharacter of agricultural operations.(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 101, 155, 158, 160.184It is only " observed Bhagwati, J., delivering the  judgmentof the Court, " if the products are raised from the land  bythe   performance  of  these  basic  operations	  that	 thesubsequent  operations attach themselves to the products  ofthe  land  and acquire the  characteristic  of	agriculturaloperations...""  But if these basic operations are wanting the  subsequentoperations do not acquire the characteristic ofagricultural operations."Dealing with trees which grow wild, Bhagwati, J.,observed :" It is agreed on all hands that products which grow wild onthe  land  or are of spontaneous growth	 not  involving	 anyhuman  labour  or skill upon the land are  not	products  ofagriculture   and  the	income	derived	 therefrom  is	 notagricultural  income.	There is no process  of	 agricultureinvolved in the raising of these products from the land."The  law being thus settled, in order to decide whether	 theincome	received by the respondent by the sale of  trees  inhis  forests  was agricultural income or  not,	the  crucialquestion to be answered is, were those trees planted by	 theproprietors of the estate, or did they grow spontaneously  ?If it is the latter, it would be wholly immaterial that	 therespondent  has	 maintained a large  establishment  for	 thepurpose	 of  preserving	 the forests and  assisting  in	 thegrowth	of the trees, because ex hypothes, he  performed  nobasic operations for bringing the forests into being.	Now,the   Tribunal	has  clearly  found  that  there   were	  noplantations  of	 trees by the estate authorities  worth	 thename,  and  that  the trees, the income from  which  is	 thesubject matter of the assessments, must have been of sponta-neous growth.  That is a finding of fact which is binding onthe  Court  in a reference under s. 66(1) of the  Act.	 Thelearned Judges declined to accept this finding, because theyconsidered  that the Tribunal had not appreciated  the	truesignificance of Podu cultivation.  That, in our opinion,  isa misdirection.	 If the point for decision had been  whetherthe   forest  was  a  virgin  forest  or  whether   it	 hadsubsequently  sprung  up,  the	evidence  relating  to	Poducultivation would have185been  very  material.	But the point for  decision  is	 notwhether	 the forests were ancient and primeval, but  whetherthey  had  been planted by the estate  authorities,  and  onthat,  the  Podu cultivation would have no  bearing.   As  aresult	of the Podu cultivation, the original forests  wouldhave  disappeared.   But  the question	would  still  remainwhether the forest which again sprang up was of	 spontaneousgrowth,	 or was the result of plantation.  Now, there is  noevidence  that as and when the jungle had disappeared  underPodu cultivation, the estate intervened and planted trees onthe  areas  thus denuded.  On the other	 hand,	the  learnedJudges	themselves found that after the destruction  of	 theoriginal  forests in the process of Podu cultivation,  therewas  a fresh growth of forests from the stumps of the  treeswhich  had  been burnt.	 If that is the fact, then  the	 newgrowth	is  also spontaneous and is not the  result  of	 anyplantation.In fairness to the learned Judges, it must be observed	thatat  the	 time  when they heard the  reference  there  was  aconflict  of  judicial	opinion	 on  the  question   whethersubsequent operations alone directed to the preservation andimprovement  of	 forests would	be  agricultural  operationswithin	s. 2(1) of the Act; and the view they took was	thatsuch  operations when conducted on a large scale as  in	 thepresent case would be within s. 2(1) of the Act.  It was  inthat  view that they observed that "it is therefore idle  toregard	tilling	 as  the  sole	and  indispensable  test  ofagriculture ". The decision of the learned Judges was reallybased  on the view that though trees in the forest  had	 notbeen  planted  by  the estate authorities,  the	 latter	 hadperformed  subequent operations of a  substantial  characterfor the maintenance and improvement of the forest, and that,in  consequence, the income was agricultural  income.	Thisview  is no longer tenable in view of the decision  of	thisCourt  in  The	Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  West  Bengal,Calcutta v. Raja Benoy Kumar Sahas Roy (1).It is contended by Mr. Viswanatha Sastri for the(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 101, 155, 158, 160.24186respondent  that on the facts established in  the  evidence,the  proper conclusion to come to is that the trees sold  bythe  respondent had been planted by the estate	authorities,and that the decision of the High Court that the income thusrealised  is within the exemption under s. 4(3)(viii)  couldbe  supported  even  on	 the  view  of	law  taken  in	 TheCommissioner  of Income-tax, West Bengal, Calcutta  v.	RajaBenoy Kumar Sahas Roy (1).  The argument was that there	 wasunimpeachable evidence that the old forests had	 disappearedunder  Podu cultivation, that the estate had been  regularlyengaged in planting trees at least from the year 1904 as  isshown by the accounts of the zamin, that it was a reasonableinference  to make that there had been	similar	 plantationseven during the years prior to 1904 notwithstanding that  noaccounts were produced for those years, because it would notbe  reasonable	to expect that such accounts  would  now  beavailable,  that  though  the  amount  shown  as  spent	 forplantation    might   not   be	 considerable,	 that	 wasunderstandable	when  regard  is bad to the  fact  that	 theagricultural operations were conducted on the hills and	 noton  the plains, that, on these facts, it would be proper  toconclude that the forests were in their entirety the  resultof  plantation.	 It would be ail erroneous approach, it	 wasargued, to call upon the assessee to prove tree by tree thatit  was planted.  Now, these are matters of appreciation  ofevidence  on what is essentially a question of	fact,  viz.,whether	 the  trees  were  of  spontaneous  growth  or	wereproducts  of plantation.  On this, the Tribunal has given  aclear  finding	on  a  consideration  of  all  the  materialevidence, and its finding is final and not open to challengein a reference under s. 66 (1) of the Act.  Even the learnedJudges	of the High Court who considered themselves free  toreview	that  finding-and, as already pointed  out,  withoutjustification,	could only observe that the trees must	havemostly	grown  from the slumps left when  the  forests	wereburnt  for  purposes of Podu cultivations finding  which  isfatal  to the contention now urged for the  respondent	thatthey(I)  [1958] S.C.R. 101, 155, 158, 160.187were the result of plantation.	We are of opinion that thereare no grounds on which the finding of the Tribunal could beattacked in these proceedings.It remains to deal with one other contention urged on behalfof  the respondent, and that is based on the fact  that	 theamounts	 spent in the upkeep of the forrests were  large  incomparison  with the receipts therefrom.  The following	 arethe figures relating to the forest receipts and expenses forthe years with which the present assessments are concerned:Years	  Receipts  Expenses1942-43	  Rs. 438,894	 Rs. 174,4371943-44	   Rs. 407,447	  Rs. 209,8951944-45	  Rs. 552,122	 Rs. 228,8301945-46	  Rs. 372,971	 Rs. 247,2161946-47	  Rs. 689,366	 Rs. 460,369The  argument  is  that	 from the  high	 proportion  of	 theexpenses  in relation to the receipts it could	be  inferredthat  the income from trees planted by the estate  formed  asubstantial portion of the income derived from the  forests.And  support for this conclusion is sought in the  followingobservations in The Commissioner of Income-tax, West Bengal,Calcutta v. Raja Benoy Kumar Sahas Roy (1):" The expenditure shown by the assessee for the	 maintenanceof the forest is about Rs. 17,000 as against a total  incomeof about Rs. 51,000.  Having regard to the magnitude of thisfigure,	 we think that a substantial portion of	 the  incomemust have been derived from trees planted by the proprietorsthemselves."To appreciate the true import of these observations, we musthave  regard to the context in which they occur.  The  factsfound  in that case were that portions of the  forest  whichwas  originally	 of spontaneous growth	had  gradually	beendenuded,  that the propritor had planted trees in the  areasso  denuded, that this had gone on for a period of over	 150years, and that therefore " the whole of the income  derivedfrom(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 101, 155, 158, 160.188the  forest cannot be treated as non-agricultural income  ".It was then observed that " If the enquiry had been directedon proper lines, it would have been possible for the Income-tax  authorities  to  ascertain how much of  the  income  isattributable to forest of a spontaneous growth and how	muchto trees Planted by the proprietors ", but that, in view  ofthe  long lapse of time, it was not desirable to remand	 thecase   for  enquiry  into  the	matter.	  Then	follow	 theobservations  on which the respondent relies, and when	readin  the light of the findings that the plantations  made  bythe proprietors were not negligible, they mean nothing	morethan that out of the total income a substantial portion	 waslikely to be agricultural income, and that it was  thereforenot a fit case for ordering fresh enquiry These observationsdo not lay down that if considerable amounts are expended inthe  maintenance of forests, then it must be held  that	 thetrees were planted by the proprietors.	They only mean	thatif  a considerable portion of the forests is found  to	havebeen planted, a substantial portion of the forest income maybe  taken to have been derived therefrom.  And this too,  itmust  be  remarked,  is	 only a	 presumption  of  fact,	 thestrength  of which must depend on all the facts	 found.	  Inthe  face of the clear finding in the present case that	 theforests	 with which the assessment years are concerned	wereof spontaneous growth, the observations quoted above can  beof  no	assistance  to	the  respondent.   It  is   scarcelynecessary to add that the observations " If the enquiry	 badbeen  directed on proper lines, it would have been  possiblefor the Income-tax authorities to ascertain how much of	 theincome	is attributable to forest of spontaneous growth	 andhow much to trees planted by the proprietors " quoted  abovecannot be read, as was sought to be done for the respondent,as throwing on the Department the burden of showing that theincome	sought	to  be taxed was  not  agricultural  income.That,  in  their  context, is not the true  meaning  of	 theobservations, and the law is as laid down in Commissioner ofIncome-tax v. Venkataswamy Naidu(1)  [1956] 29 I.T.R. 529, 534.189In  the	 result, this appeal is allowed, the  order  of	 theCourt  below is set aside and the reference is	answered  inthe  affirmative.  The respondent will pay the costs of	 theappellant here and in the Court below.Appeal allowed.