PETITIONER:BASHIRUDDIN ASHRAF	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHARDATE OF JUDGMENT:25/04/1957BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  645		  1957 SCR 1032ACT:Mutawalli--Majlis,  Powers of-Budget-Mutawalli's failure  toPrepare	  and  send  copy   to	 Majlis-Conviction-Validity--Sentence  of fine, in	default	 imprisonment--Legality-BihrWaqfs  Act,  1947  (Bihar  Act	8  Of  1948),  ss.  58,	 65-Constitution of India, Art. 19 (1) (g).HEADNOTE:The appellant failed to prepare a budget of the Waqf  Estateof which he was the mutawalli, for the year 1952-53 and senda  copy of it to the Majlis before January 15, 1952,  as  hewas bound to do under S. 58(1) of the Bihar Waqfs Act, 1947,and  was convicted by the 'Magistrate under s. 65(1) of	 theAct  and sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 100, in	 default  toundergo fifteen days simple imprisonment.  It was  contendedfor  him  that the conviction and sentence  were  not  validbecause	 (1) s. 58 of the Act contravened Art. 19(1) (g)  ofthe Constitution of India, as it gave unrestricted power  tothe  Majlis  to alter or modify the budget prepared  by	 themutawalli  without a right of appeal against the  action  ofthe Majlis and so imposed an unreasonable restriction on themutawalli in carrying on his occupation as such, and (2)  s.65  Of	the  Act did not provide  for  any  imprisonment  indefault of payment of fine.Held,  that  having  regard to the  fact  that	a  mutawallioccupies  the  position of a manager or	 custodian  and	 thesupervision  over  him	by the Majlis with  respect  to	 dueadministration	of the waqf property is necessary  and	thatthe  powers  of	 the Majlis to alter or	 modify	 the  budgetprepared by the mutawalli are controlled by sub-s. (6) Of s.58 of the Act, the restrictions imposed by S. 58 Of the	 Acton the exercise of his powers1033by a mutawalli are reasonable.	Accordingly, the  provisionsOf  S. 58 'of the Act do not offend Art. 19 (i) (g)  of	 theConstitution.Commissioner,  Hindu  Religious Endowments,  Madras  v.	 SriLakshmindya  Thirtha  Swamiar  of Sri  Shirur  Mutt,  (1954)S.C.R. 1005, relied on.The  order of the Magistrate providing for  imprisonment  indefault	 of payment of fine is not invalid in view Of S.  33of the Code of Criminal Procedure read with ss. 4o and 67 ofthe Indian Penal Code.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 39  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary	 28,  1954,  of the Patna  High	 Court	in  CriminalRevision  No.  69 of 1954 arising out of  the  judgment	 andorder dated November 23, 1953, of the Sessions Judge, Patna,in Criminal Appeal No. 288 of 1953 against the judgment	 andorder  dated  August 27, 1953, of the Munsif  Magistrate  ofPatna Sadar.Murtaza Fazl Ali and R. C. Prasad, for the appellant. S.  P.Varma, for respondent No. 1.1957.  April 25.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byIMAM  J.-The  appellant	 was removed from  his	position  asmutawalli of Gholam Yahia Waqf Estate on September 1,  1951,by an order passed by the Majlis constituted under the BiharWaqfs Act, 1947 (Bihar Act 8 of 1948) (hereinafter  referredto  as	the  Act).  He appealed to  the	 District  Judge  ofMonghyr,  as he was entitled to do under the  provisions  ofthe Act, and the operation of the order of removal passed bythe  Majlis  was stayed by the District	 Judge	pending	 thehearing of his appeal.	A complaint against him was filed inthe Court of the Sadar Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Patna,  onJuly 1, 1952, by Mahommad Sual, Nazir of the Majlis, on	 theorder of its Sadar.  It was alleged in the complaint that itwas  the duty of the appellant' to prepare a budget  of	 thewaqf  estate of which he was a mutawalli, under s. 58(1)  ofthe Act, for the year13310341952-53	 and  to  send a copy of it  to	 the  Majlis  beforeJanuary 15, 1952.  The appellant had deliberately failed  tocomply	with  the  aforesaid provisions	 and  therefore	 hadcommitted  an offence punishable under s. 65(1) of the	Act.The  office of the Majlis where the budget had to  be  filedwas  situated at Patna within the local jurisdiction of	 theMagistrate  in	whose Court the complaint  was	filed.	 Theappellant  was	subsequently  tried at	Patna  by  a  MunsifMagistrate  with First Class powers and convicted  under  s.65(1) of the Act and sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 100,  indefault	 to  undergo fifteen days simple  imprisonment.	  Heappealed  to the Sessions Judge of Patna who  dismissed	 hisappeal.	 An application filed by the appellant in the  PatnaHigh  Court  in	 its criminal  revisional  jurisdiction	 wasrejected.   The appellant obtained special leave  to  appealagainst the order of the High Court.It  has	 been found as a fact that the appellant  failed  toprepare a budget of the estimated income and expenditure  ofthe  waqf  estate  and to send a copy of it  to	 the  Majlisbefore	 January   15,	 1952.	 The   only   question	 forconsideration  is whether the appellant's failure to  complywith the provisions of s. 58(1) of the Act makes him  liableto  be	punished  under	 s. 65(1).  At	this  stage,  it  isnecessary to set out the provisions of a.    58	 of the	 Actwhich are as follows:"  58  (1)  The mutawalli of every waqf	 shall,	 before	 thefifteenth  day of January in each year, prepare a budget  ofthe  estimated income and expenditure of such waqf  for	 thenext  succeeding financial year and shall forthwith  send  acopy thereof to the Majlis.(2)The	Majlis may, within six weeks from the date on  whichit  receives such copy, alter or modify the budget  in	suchmanner and to such extent as it thinks fit.(3)If  the Majlis alters or modifies any budget	 under	sub-section	 (2), it, shall forthwith send a copy of the  budgetas  so	altered	 or modified to the mutawalli  of  the	waqfconcerned, and the budget as so altered or modified shall bedeemed to be the budget of the waqf.(4)If within the period mentioned in subsection (2) and	 fortwo weeks thereafter the Majlis does1035not  send to the mutawalli of the waqf concerned a  copy  ofthe  budget  altered or modified as  aforesaid,	 the  Majlisshall  be  deemed to have approved the	budget	without	 anyalteration or modification.(5)If the mutawalli fails to prepare and send a copy of	 thebudget	as  required by sub-section (1),  the  Majlis  shallprepare	 a  budget for the waqf concerned  and	such  budgetshall  be deemed to be the budget of that waqf for the	yearin question.(6)Nothing  contained  in this section shall  be  deemed  toauthorise  the	Majlis to alter or modify any  budget  in  amanner	or to an extent inconsistent with the wishes of	 thewaqif,	so  far as such wishes can be  ascertained,  or	 theprovisions of this Act."Section	 65 provides that a mutawalli may be punished if  hefails  to  comply  with certain	 matters  mentioned  thereinincluding  his failure to comply with sub-s. (1) of  s.	 58.Sub-section (1) of s. 65 reads as follows:" 65 (1) If a mutawalli fails without reasonable cause,	 theburden	of proving which shall be upon him, to	comply	withany order or direction made or issued under clauses (i), (o)or (q) of sub-section (2) of section 27 or under section 56,to comply with the provisions of sub-section (1) of  section57, sub-section (1) of section 58, section 59 or section 60,or  to	furnish	 any statement,	 annual	 account,  estimate,explanation or other document or information relating to thewaqf  of  which	 he is mutawalli, which he  is	required  orcalled upon to furnish under any of the other provisions  ofthis Act, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend,in the case of the first offence, to two hundred rupees and,in  the	 case of second or any subsequent offence,  to	fivehundred rupees.	 "It  is	clear from the provisions of s.	 58(1)	that  beforeJanuary	 15,  each year, the mutawalli of  each	 waqf  shallprepare a budget for the next succeeding financial year	 andshall forthwith send a copy thereof to the Majlis.  Under s.65  (1), if he fails to comply with the above, he is  liableto be punished with fine.It  was contended by the learned Advocate for the  appellantthat  s. 58 of the Act was an invalid provision	 because  itgave unrestricted power to the Majlis to alter1036or  modify  the budget prepared by the mutawalli  without  aright of appeal against the action of the Majlis altering ormodifying  the budget.	The provisions of s. 58	 imposed  anunreasonable restriction on the mutawalli in carrying on hisoccupation  as such.  Accordingly, the provisions of  s.  58offended Art. 19(1) (g) of the Constitution..The  Act  was enacted for the purpose of providing  for	 thebetter administration of waqfs in the State of Bihar as	 itspreamble  states.  Section 5 provides for the  establishmentof  two	 bodies	 corporate  known  as  Majlis  to  dischargerespectively the functions assigned to them by the Act	withreference  to  Sunni  waqfs  and  Shia	waqfs.	 Section  27provides  that the general superintendence of all  waqfs  inthe  State shall be vested in the Majlis, which will do	 allthings	reasonable  and necessary to ensure that  waqfs	 areproperly  supervised  and administered and that	 the  incomethereof	 is duly appropriated and applied to the objects  ofsuch  waqfs  and in accordance with the purposes  for  whichsuch  waqfs were founded or for which they exist so  far  assuch  objects and purposes can be ascertained.	 Sub-section(2)  of	 this section enumerates, inter alia,.	the  variouspowers	and duties of the Majlis including the removal of  amutawalli  from	 his office under certain  conditions.	 Thevarious	 powers set out in this subsection clearly  indicatethat  the mutawalli is subordinate to and under the  controlof  the	 Majlis.  The Majlis under s. 47 may  also  make  anapplication  to	 the District Judge for	 an  order,  amongstother  things, for the removal of the mutawalli.  Chapter  Xdeals with mutawallis and their duties and under s. 56 it isspecifically  enjoined that every mutawalli shall carry	 outall directions which may from time to time be issued to	 himby  the	 Majlis	 under any of the  provisions  of  the	Act.Previous  to the passing of the Act, the Mussalman Wakf	 Act(Central  Act XLII of 1923) was enacted to  make  provisionsfor the better management of waqf property and for  ensuringthe keeping and publication of proper accounts in respect ofsuch  properties.  It applied to all waqfs, except those  towhich s. 3 of the Mussalman Wakf Validating Act,10371913,  applied.	 Reference to some of the provisions of	 theMussalman Wakf Act may now be made.  Section 3 provides	 forthe  furnishing	 of particulars relating to a  waqf  to	 theCourt, that is to say, a District Judge or within the limitsof  ordinary  original	civil jurisdiction,  to	 such  Courtsubordinate to the High Court as the State Government may bynotification  in the Official Gazette designate.  Section  5provides that within three months after the thirty-first dayof  March  next following the date on  which  the  statementreferred  to  in  s. 3 had been	 furnished,  and  thereafterwithin	three  months of the thirty-first day  of  March  inevery  year, the mutawalli shall prepare and furnish to	 theCourt  a full and true statement of accounts of	 all  moneysreceived  or expended by him on behalf of the waqf of  whichhe  was	 the mutawalli during the period  of  twelve  monthsending	on  such  thirty-first day  of	March.	 Section  10provides  for  punishment  for failure to  comply  with	 theprovisions  of	s.  3 or s. 4 by a  mutawalli,	who  becomesliable	to be fined a sum which may extend to  five  hundredrupees,	 or, in the case of a second or	 subsequent  offencewhich  may extend to two thousand rupees.  It is clear	thatthe  purpose of the Act and that of the Mussalman  Wakf	 Actwas to ensure that the waqfs were properly administered	 andthat  the income of the waqf was duly appropriated  for	 thepurposes for which the waqf had been founded.  Having regardto  the fact that the mutawalli occupied the position  of  amanager	 or  a custodian and that some kind  of	 control  orsupervision  over  him	by the Majlis with  respect  to	 dueadministration of the waqf property and due appropriation offunds  was certainly necessary, we are of the  opinion	thatthe   provisions  of  s.  58  of  the  Act  are	  reasonablerestrictions  on the exercise of his duties as	a  mutawalliand  it cannot be said that the provisions of s.  58  offendany  of the provisions of the Constitution.  As was said  inthe  case of The Commissioner, Hindu  Religious	 Endowments,Madras	v.  Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar  of	 Sri  ShirurMutt(1) a budget is indispensable in all public institutionsand that it is not per se(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1005, 1037.1038unreasonable  to  provide  for the  budget  of	a  religiousinstitution  being  prepared under the	supervision  of	 theCommissioner  or  the Area Committee.  Under s. 58  of	 theAct,  the mutawalli has to prepare a budget and send a	copyof it to the Majlis within a specified time and the  Majlis,which has the powers of supervision over him, is  authorizedto alter or modify the budget.	This power of alteration  ormodification  is  inherent in the power of  supervision	 andsuch a provision in s. 58 cannot be said to be unreasonable.Reliance,  however, was placed on a passage in the  judgmentof this Court in the case cited above to the effect that  ifan  Area Committee under cl. 3 of s. 70 of the Madras  HinduReligious  and	Charitable Endowments Act, 1951,  makes	 anyaddition  or alteration in the budget, an appeal against  itlay  to	 the Deputy Commissioner.  The	passage	 upon  whichreliance is placed is no authority for the proposition	thatthe  provisions	 of  s. 58 of the  Act	become	unreasonablebecause	 there	is no provision for an	appeal	against	 theorders of the Majlis.  The powers of the Majlis to alter  ormodify	the  budget  prepared  by  the	mutawalli  are	 notunrestricted.	Sub-section (6) of s. 58 expressly  providesthat  nothing  contained in the section shall be  deemed  toauthorize  the	Majlis to alter or modify any  budget  in  amanner	or to an extent inconsistent with the wishes of	 thewaqif,	so  far as such wishes can be  ascertained,  or	 theprovisions of the Act.	In our opinion, nothing contained insub-ss.	 (2),  (3) and (4) of s. 58 amount  to	unreasonablerestrictions on the exercise of the duties of the  mutawallias  a  person administering a waqf.  Even if it were  to  beassumed that the said provisions amounted to an unreasonablerestriction, sub-ss. (2), (3) and (4) are clearly  severablefrom  sub-ss.  (1), (5) and (6) of s. 58.  Even	 if  sub-ss.(2),  (3) and 4 were struck down, the mutawalli would  stillbe  under a legal obligation under sub-s. (1) to  prepare  abudget	and  submit a copy thereof to the  Majlis  within  aspecified  time	 and  his failure to do so  would  make	 himliable to punishment under s. 65(1).It  was urged that the Sessions Judge erred in	placing	 theonus  on the appellant under s. 65(1) to prove that  he	 hadsubmitted the copy of the budget within time.1039This  objection,  however,  does  not  require	a   detailedconsideration  because the Sessions Judge clearly stated  inhis judgment that apart from the onus, he was satisfied thatthe  prosecution had fully established on the evidence	thatthe  appellant	had failed to send a copy of the  budget  asrequired by law.It was also pointed out that s. 65 does not provide for	 anyimprisonment  in  default  of  payment	of  fine,  but	 theappellant  was sentenced to 15 days simple  imprisonment  indefault	 of  payment  of fine.	Section 33 of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  read with ss. 40 and 67 of	 the  IndianPenal  Code  appears  to us to be a  clear  answer  to	thiscontention.It  was	 also  pointed out that under s. 65  of	 the  Act  asentence of fine extending upto five hundred rupees could beimposed	 for a second or for a subsequent offence.  We	neednot, however, consider that matter in the present appeal  asit was conceded on behalf of the appellant that the sentenceof fine imposed upon him in the present case was for a firstoffence.The appeal is accordingly dismissed.				      Appeal dismissed.