PETITIONER:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAJA SYED MOHAMMAD SAADAT ALI KHAN.DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/07/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1283ACT:Agricultural   Income-tax--Additional  Collector--Power	  ofAssessment--Amending  Act  giving  retrospective  effect  toamended	 Provisions--Provision for review in  the  amendmentAct--If	 affects  the  powers of  the  appellate  court--TheUnited	Provinces Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1949 (U.	  P.III of 1949)--United Provinces Land Revenue Act, 1901  (U.P.III of 1901).HEADNOTE:The  United  Provinces Agricultural  Income-tax	 Act,  1949,authorised imposition of a tax on agricultural income withinthe  State,  and the agricultural income-tax  and  super-taxwere  charged  on  the	total  agricultural  income  of	 theprevious year of the assessee.	For the purposes of the	 Actthe  Collector and the Assistant Collector were declared  tobe the assessing authorities within their respective revenuejurisdiction  and the expression " Collector " was  to	havethe  same  meaning as in the United Provinces  Land  RevenueAct,  1901.  Under the rules framed by the government  unders.  44 of the Act an assessee having agricultural income  inthe jurisdiction of more than one assessing authority was tobe  assessed  by the Collector of the district in  which  hepermanently resided.  The State Government of Uttar  Pradeshappointed  Mr. K. C. Chaudhry under subS. 1 of S.  14(A)  ofthe  United  Provinces	Land Revenue Act,  1901	 to  be	 theAdditional Collector in District Bahraich and authorised himto  exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of  aCollector  in all classes of cases ". Claiming	to  exercisethe83powers	of a Collector under S. 14 of the  United  ProvincesAgricultural  Income-tax  Act of 1949 he  assessed  the	 netagricultural  income  of  the  assessee	 who  owned   landedproperty in two districts, namely, Bahraich and Kheri in theState of Uttar Pradesh, at 12,81,110-10-0 and ordered him topay  Rs. 1,36,390-2-0 as agricultural income-tax and  super-tax.   The  validity  of this order was	 challenged  by	 theassessee in the High Court by an application under Art.	 226of the Constitution and the High Court quashed the order  ofthe  Additional	 Collector holding that he had no  "  extra-territorial  "	jurisdiction  which  was  exercised  by	 theCollector  as  the assessing authority in  cases  where	 theproperty  of the assessee was situate in  several  districtsand  as	 such  the proceeding taken  by	 him  for  assessingagricultural   income-tax  was	unauthorised.	 After	 thejudgment   of  the  High  Court	 was  delivered	 the   StateLegislature   amended  the  United  Provinces	AgriculturalIncome-tax   Act,   1949,  by  Act  XIV	 of   1956,   givingretrospective  operation  to the amending  provisions.	 TheAmendment  Act enacted that the assessment proceedings	heldby an Additional Collector who was invested with the  powersof a Collector under Act III of 1901 should be deemed alwaysto have been properly taken.  The State Government submittedbefore	the  High Court an application under s.	 11  of	 theamending Act for review of its judgment but it was  dismiss-ed. On appeal by the State Government by special leave,Held, that the Additional Collector was competent to  assessthe   liability	  of  the  assessee  to	  pay	agriculturalincome-.tax   and  super-tax  under  the  United   ProvincesAgricultural Income-taxAct, 1949.A Court of appeal must give effect to the law as it stood atthe  time of hearing of the appeal if at any stage  anteriorto  the hearing the law had been amended with  retrospectiveeffect conferring on an authority or tribunal from the orderwhereof	  the  appeal  is  filed,  jurisdiction	  which	  itoriginally lacked.The power of the appellate court to deal with the appeal  inaccordance of the amended law is not affected by a provisionfor review as contained in s. 11 of the Amending Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal  No. 306 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 28, 1955,  ofthe Allahabad High Court (Lucknow Bench), Lucknow, in  CivilMisc.  Application No. 59 of 1954.C.   B.	 Agarwala,  C.	P. Lal and G. N.  Dikshit,  for	 theappellants.S. P. Sinha and B. R. L. Iyengar, for the respondent.1960.  July 28.	 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by84SHAH'  J.-Raja	Syed  Mohammad Saadat  Ali  Khan,  who	willhereinafter be referred to as " the assessee ", is the ownerof Taluqa Nanpura in district Bahraich and Taluqa  Mohammadiin  district  Kheri,  in the State of  Uttar  Pradesh.	 Thelegislature  of	 the  United Provinces	enacted	 the  UnitedProvinces  Agricultural	 Income-tax Act, Act  III  of  1949,authorising  imposition	 of  a tax  on	agricultural  incomewithin the State.  By s. 3 of the Act, the liability to	 payagricultural income-tax and super-tax at rates specified  inthe  schedule therein was charged on the total	agriculturalincome of the previous year of every person.  By s. 14,	 theCollector and the Assistant Collector were for the  purposesof  the Act declared to be the assessing authorities  withintheir  respective  revenue  jurisdictions.   As	  originallyenacted,  by  s. 2(4), the expression " Collector "  was  tohave  the  same	 meaning as in	the  United  Provinces	LandRevenue Act, 1901.  By s. 44, the Provincial Government	 wasempowered to make rules for carrying out the purposes of theAct,  and in particular, amongst others, " to prescribe	 theauthority by whom and the place at which assessment shall bemade  in the case of assessee having agricultural income  inthe  jurisdiction of more than one assessing authority "  Byr.  18, el. 1(a), framed by the Government, in	exercise  ofthe powers under s. 44, it was provided, in so far as it  ismaterial,  that	 subject to sub-s. 2 of s. 14,	an  assesseeshall  ordinarily be assessed by...... the Collector of	 thedistrict in which he permanently resides.The  State  Government of Uttar Pradesh (the  former  UnitedProvinces) by Notification dated June 8, 1953, appointed oneK.  C.	Chaudhry under sub-s.  1 of s. 14(A) of	 the  UnitedProvinces Land Revenue Act III of 1901 to be the  AdditionalCollector  in  district	 Bahraich  and	authorised  him	  toexercise  all  the powers and perform all the  duties  of  aCollector " in all classes of cases ". Claiming to  exercisethe  authority of the Collector tinder s. 14 of Act  III  of1949,  the Additional Collector by order dated February	 25,1954, assessed the assessee's net agricultural income at Rs.2,81,110-10-3  and  ordered him to pay Rs.  1,36,390-2-0  asagricultural income-tax and super-tax.85The validity of this order was challenged by the assessee byan application under Art. 226 of the Constitution  presentedbefore	the  High  Court of Judicature	at  Allahabad.	 Thecontention of the assessee that the Additional Collector  ofBahraich was not an authority competent bylaw to assess	 theagricultural income-tax under Act III of 1949 was upheld  bythe High Court.	 The High Court issued a writ of  certiorariquashing  the order of the Additional Collector, because  inits  opinion,  where property of an assessee is	 situate  inseveral districts, the Collector as the assessing  authorityunder	Act  III  of  1949   exercises	 "extra-territorial"jurisdiction,	but  as	 K.  C.	 Chaudury,  the	  AdditionalCollector  was	not  invested  with  that   extraterrestrialjurisdiction, the impugned proceeding assessing agriculturalincome-tax  was	 unauthorised.	The State of  Uttar  Pradeshobtained  from the High Court leave to appeal to this  courtagainst the order quashing the assessment.On behalf of the State of Uttar Pradesh, it is urged that anAdditional  Collector  by virtue of s. 14(A) of	 the  UnitedProvinces  Land	 Revenue Act III of 1901,  is  competent  toexercise  all such powers and perform all such duties  of  aCollector  in  cases  or  classes  of  oases  as  the  StateGovernment  may	 direct,  and the  State  Government  havinginvested   Mr.	Chaudhri  the  Additional   Collector	withauthority to exercise all the powers and to perform all	 theduties	of  a Collector " in all classes of  cases  ",	thatofficer could exercise the powers of the Collector under ActIII  of	 1901, including, what the High Court called  the  "extraterritorial " powers.  It is unnecessary to express anyopinion	 on  this argument, because the legislature  of	 theState of Uttar Pradesh, has, since the judgment delivered bythe  High Court in this group of cases, amended	 the  UnitedProvinces  Agricultural	 Incometax Act (U.  P.	Act  III  of1949) by Act XIV of 1956, giving retrospective operation  tothe amending provisions.  By the amendment, cl. 4 of s. 2 ofthe original Act, has been substituted by two clauses, cl. 4and  cl.  4-a,	and el. 4-a enacts  that  the  expression  "Collector " shall have and shall be deemed always to have86the meaning as in the U. P. Land Revenue Act, 1901 and	willinclude	 an  Additional Collector appointed under  the	saidAct.	By  s.	10(1)(b),  all	orders	made,	actions	  orproceedings   taken,  directions  issued  or   jurisdictionsexercised under or in accordance with the provisions of	 thePrincipal  Act or of any rule an framed thereunder prior  tothe  amendment of that Act are to be deemed always to be  asgood  and  valid in law as if the amending Act had  been  inforce at all material dates.  By s. 10, sub-s. 1(a), of	 theamending  Act,	it is provided that in r. IS of	 the  U.  P.Agricultural  Income  Tax  Rules,  1949,  the  expression  "Collector  " shall be deemed to have included an  AdditionalCollector:  and	 it is enacted by sub-s. 2 of  that  sectionthat where any question arose as to the validity or legalityof  any	 assessment  made  by  an  Additional  Collector  inpurported exercise of the powers under s.    14	 or  of	 therules framed under cl. (o) of sub-s. 2 of s. 44	 of Act	 IIIof  1949, the same shall be determined as if the  provisionsof  this  amending  Act had been in force  at  all  materialdates.	By the amending Act, the legislature has enacted  inlanguage  which	 is  clear  and	 explicit  that	  assessmentproceedings held by an Additional Collector who is  investedwith  the powers of a Collector under Act III of 1901  shallbe deemed always to have been properly taken.This court is seized of an appeal from the order of the HighCourt  quashing	 the  assessment  on  the  ground  that	 theAdditional  Collector had no extra-territorial authority  toassess agricultural income-tax.	 It is true that Act III  of1949  was  amended  after  the	High  Court  delivered	 itsjudgment;  but in dealing with this appeal, we are bound  toconsider the amended law as it stands today (and which	mustbe  deemed  to have so stood at all material times)  and  togive  effect to it, having regard to the  clearly  expressedintention  of  the legislature in  the	amended	 provisions.Accordingly  we	 hold  that  the  Additional  Collector	 wascompetent  to  assess the liability of the assessee  to	 payagricultural income-tax and super-tax under the United	Pro-vinces Agricultural Income-tax Act III of 1949.For the assessee, it is contended that before the87High  Court  an	 application  for  review  of  judgment	 wassubmitted  by  the  State  Government under  s.	 11  of	 theamending  Act,	and  the High  Court  having  rejected	thatapplication and no further proceeding having been  initiatedin this court challenging the correctness of that  decision,it is not open to us to set aside the judgment under appeal.In support of this plea, it is urged that an application forreview of judgment is the only remedy available to a  personaggrieved  by  a  decision  of	a  court  or  authority	 forrectification  of an order inconsistent with the  provisionsof   the  amending  Act,  and  if,  for	 any  reason,	thatapplication  for  review  is  not  filed  or  is  filed	 andrejected, it is not open to a court or authority  exercisingappellate  powers  against that decision to  adjudicate	 thedispute in the light of the amending Act.Section 11 in so far as it is material, provides:"  Where before the commencement of this Act, any  court  orauthority  has, in any proceedings under the Principal	Act,set  aside  any assessment made by an  Additional  Collectormerely	on  the ground that the assessing authority  had  nojurisdiction  to  make	the assessment,	 any  party  to	 theproceedings  may, at any time, within ninety days  from	 thecommencement of the Act apply to the court or authority	 fora  review of the proceedings in the light of the  provisionsof  this  Act,	and  the court or  authority  to  which	 theapplication   is   made,  shall	  review   the	 proceedingsaccordingly ".Relying	 on s.. 11, the State of Uttar Pradesh, it  is	truedid submit an application for review of the judgment of	 theHigh  Court  and the High Court	 rejected  that	 applicationobserving,"That  section	(s. 1 1) applies however only  to  cases  inwhich  the assessment has been set aside in any	 proceedingsunder  the  Principal  Act.  In the  cases  before  us,	 theassessment  has not been set aside in any proceedings  underthe Principal Act but in exercise of the jurisdiction vestedin  this  court under Art. 226 of the  Constitution.   Thesethree	     petitions	     are	therefore	 notmaintainable................"We need express no opinion on the correctness of88this  view, because in our judgment, the contention  of	 theassessee   that	  for  setting	aside	an   adverse   orderinconsistent  with  the provisions of the  amending  Act  of1956, a proceeding for review under s. 11 is the only remedywhich  is open to an aggrieved party, is without  force.   Acourt  of appeal,, in an appeal properly     before it, mustgive  effect to the law as it stands if the law has at	somestage  anterior	 to the hearing of the appeal  been  amendedretrospectively	 with  the  object of  conferring  upon	 theauthority  or  tribunal	 of first instance  from  the  orderwhereof the appeal is filed jurisdiction which it originallylacked: and a provision for review like the one contained ins.  11 of the amending Act does not affect the power of	 theappellate court to deal with the appeal in the light of	 theamended law.In  the view expressed by us, this appeal must	be  allowed.As  the	 appellant succeeds relying on a statute  which	 wasenacted after the date of the judgment of the High Court, wedirect that there shall be no order as to costs.				       Appeal allowed.