PETITIONER:JAIKRISHNADAS MANOHARDASDESAI AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/03/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  833		  1960 SCR  (3) 329 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1962 SC 673	 (2) R	    1963 SC 495	 (5) C	    1963 SC1721	 (4,5) RF	    1964 SC 864	 (25) E	    1966 SC1253	 (6) R	    1970 SC 919	 (14,26,28) RF	    1972 SC 343	 (22) R	    1980 SC  31	 (19,22)ACT:Criminal Breach of Trust--Ingredients of--Common intention--Meaning of--Indian Penal Code (XLV of 1860), ss. 409, 34.HEADNOTE:The first appellant was the Managing Director and the secondappellant a Director and technical expert of a cloth  dyeingconcern known as Parikh Dyeing and Printing Mills Ltd.	 Thecompany	  entered   into  a  contract	with   the   TextileCommissioner  undertaking to dye a large quantity  of  clothwhich  was  supplied to the company for	 that  purpose.	  Inpursuance of the contract certain quantity of cloth was dyedand delivered to the Textile Commissioner by the company butit  failed  to dye and deliver the balance  of	cloth  whichremained  in  its  possession and was not  returned  to	 theTextile	  Commissioner	 in  spite  of	 repeated   demands.Ultimately  the two appellants were prosecuted for  criminalbreach	of trust under S. 409 read with S. 34 of the  IndianPenal  Code  and were convicted for the same in a  trial  byjury.320In appeal the High Court reviewed the evidence on the groundof  misdirection  to  the  jury	 but  found  that  the	 twoappellants  were liable to account for the cloth over  whichthey  had dominion, and having failed to do so each of	themwas guilty of the offence of criminal breach of trust.	 TheHigh  Court refused to accept the appellants' plea that	 thecloth was old and was eaten up by white ants and moths.	  Onappeal by the appellants by special leave:Held,  that  to	 establish a charge of	criminal  breach  oftrust,	the prosecution was not bound to prove	the  precisemode  of conversion, misappropriation or  misapplication  bythe  accused of the property entrusted to him or over  whichhe had dominion.  The principal ingredient of the offence ofcriminal  breach of trust being	 dishonest  misappropriationthe mere failure of the accused to account for the  propertyentrusted  to  him  might  not	be  the	 foundation  of	 hisconviction  in all cases but where he was unable to  accountand  rendered  an  explanation for  his	 failure  which	 wasuntrue,	 an  inference of  misappropriation  with  dishonestintent might readily be made.The  essence  of liability under S. 34 of the  Indian  PenalCode  is the existence of a common intention  animating	 theoffenders  and	the  participation  in	a  criminal  act  infurtherance of the common intention.  The physical  presenceat  the	 scene	of  offence of the  offender  sought  to  berendered  liable  under S. 34 is not, on the  words  of	 thestatute, one of the conditions of its applicability in everycase.Barendra  Kumar	 Ghose v. The King Emperor, (1929)  L.R.  52I.A. 40, followed.Shreekantiah  Ramayya  Munipalli  v. The  State	 of  Bombay,[1955] 1 S.C.R. 1177, explained and distinguished.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 159  of1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  14,  1956, of the Bombay High	 Court	in  CriminalAppeal	No.  1232 of 1955, arising out of the  judgment	 andorder  dated  October 3, 1955, of  the	Additional  SessionsJudge for Greater Bombay in Case No. 38 V. Sessions 1955.Purshottam  Tricumdas, B. K. B. Naidu and I. N. Shroff,	 forappellant No. 1.Appellant No. 2 did not appear.H.   J.	 Umrigar,  R.  H.  Dhebar and T.  M.  Sen,  for	 therespondent.1960.  March 16.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySHAH,  J.--At a trial held with the aid of a common jury  inCase No. 38 of the Vth Session 1955 before the321Additional  Sessions Judge, City Court, Greater Bombay,	 thetwo appellants were convicted of offences under s. 409	readwith  s.  34  of  the Indian  Penal  Code.   The  AdditionalSessions  Judge	 sentenced  the first  appellant  to  sufferrigorous   imprisonment	 for  five  years  and	the   secondappellant  to suffer rigorous imprisonment for	four  years.In  appeal, the High Court of Bombay reviewed the  evidence,because	 in the view of the Court, the verdict of  the	jurywas  vitiated  on account of a misdirection on a  matter  ofsubstantial importance, but held that the conviction of	 thetwo appellants for the offence under s. 409 read with s.  34of the Indian Penal Code was, on the evidence, not liable tobe  set	 aside.	 The High Court	 accordingly  confirmed	 theconviction  of the two appellants but reduced  the  sentencepassed upon the first appellant to rigorous imprisonment forthree years and the sentence against the second appellant torigorous  imprisonment for one year.  Against the  order  ofconviction  and	 sentence, the appellants have	appealed  tothis court with special leave.The  facts  which gave rise to the charge  against  the	 twoappellants are briefly these:On  June 15, 1948, the Textile Commissioner invited  tendersfor  dyeing  Pugree Cloth.  The Parikh Dyeing  and  PrintingMills  Ltd.,  Bombay-hereinafter to be referred	 to  as	 thecompany-of  which  the	first  appellant  was  the  ManagingDirector  and  the  second  appellant  was  a  Director	 andtechnical  expert, submitted a tender which was accepted  onJuly  27,  1948,  subject to  certain  general	and  specialconditions.  Pursuant to the contract, 2,51,059-3/4 yards ofcloth were supplied to the company for dyeing.	The  companyfailed	to  dye the cloth within the stipulated	 period	 andthere was correspondence in that behalf between the  companyand the Textile Commissioner.  Approximately 1,11,000. yardsout  of	 the cloth were dyed and delivered  to	the  TextileCommissioner.  On March 25, 1950, the company requested	 theTextile	 Commissioner  to  cancel the contract	and  by	 hisletter	dated  April  3,  1950,	 the  Textile	Commissionercomplied  with	the request, and cancelled the	contract  inrespect of 96,128 yards.  On November 20, 1950, the contractwas cancelled by the322Textile Commissioner in respect of the balance of cloth	 andthe  company was called upon to give an account without	 anyfurther delay of the balance undelivered and it was informedthat it would be held responsible for " material spoiled  ornot accounted for ". On December 4, 1950, the company sent astatement  of  account	setting out the	 quantity  of  clothactually  delivered  for  dyeing,  the	quantity  of   clothreturned duly dyed and the balance of cloth, viz.,  1,32,160yards remaining to be delivered.  Against the cloth admittedby  the	 company  remaining to be delivered,  it  claimed  awastage	 allowance of 2,412 yards and admitted liability  todeliver 1,29,748 yards lying with it on Government account.It  appears  that  about  this	time,  the  company  was  infinancial   difficulties.   In	December  1950,	 the   firstappellant left Bombay to take up the management of a factoryin Ahmedabad and the affairs of the company were managed  byone  R.	 K.  Patel.   In  June	1952,  an  application	 foradjudicating the two appellants insolvents was filed in	 theInsolvency  Court  at Ahmedabad.  An insolvency	 notice	 wasalso taken out against the two appellants at the instance ofanother	 creditor in the High Court at Bombay.	 Proceedingsfor winding up the company were commenced in the High  Courtat Bombay.  In the meantime, the mortgagee of the  machineryand factory of the company had entered into possession undera  covenant reserved in that behalf, of the premises of	 thefactory of the company.The Textile Commissioner made attempts to recover the  clothremaining  undelivered by the company.	A letter was  postedby the Textile Commissioner on April 16, 1952, calling	uponthe  company to deliver 51,756 yards of cloth lying with  itin  bleached  condition	 to  the  Chief	 Ordnance   Officer,Ordnance   Depot,,  Sewri,  but	 the  letter  was   returnedundelivered.  It was ultimately served with the help of	 thepolice on the second appellant in October 1952.	  Thereafteron  November  7, 1952, another letter was addressed  to	 thecompany	 and the same was served on the second appellant  onNovember 25, 1952.  By this letter, the company was remindedthat 1,35,726-3/4 yards of cloth323were lying with it on account of the government and the samehad  to	 be  accounted for, and	 that  the  instructions  todeliver 51,756 yards to the Chief Ordnance Officer, OrdnanceDepot,	Sewri,	had  not  been	attended  to.	The  TextileCommissioner   called	upon  the  company   to	  send	 itsrepresentatives	 to " clarify the position " and to  accountfor  the material.  After receiving this letter, the  secondappellant   attended   at  the	office	 of   the'   TextileCommissioner  and  on  November 27,  1952,  wrote  a  letterstating	 that " the main factors involved in not  deliveringthe  goods in finished state was that the material was	veryold  ",	 was  "	 dhobibleached in  different  lots",  was  "bleached under different conditions and therefore unsuitablefor  vat colour dyeing in heavy shades", that it  varied  inlength,	 weight, and finish and had " lost affinity for	 vatcolour dyeing".	 It was also stated that the company had  indyeing the basic material, suffered " huge losses" estimatedat  Rs.	 40,000.  It was then stated: " We  are,  therefore,however	 prepared to co-operate with the Government and	 arewilling to make good the government's bare cost.  Please letus know the detail and the actual amount to be deposited  sothat we may do so at, an early date.  We shall thank you  ifwe are given an appointment to discuss the matter as regardsthe final amount with respect to the balance quantity of thebasic material."On  December 29, 1952, the premises of the company  and	 theplace  of  residence of the appellants were raided,  but  notrace  of the cloth was found.	A complaint was	 then  filedwith  the police charging the two appellants  with  criminalbreach	of  trust. in respect of 1,32,4041  yards  of  clothbelonging to the Government.There is no dispute that approximately 1,30,000 yards out ofthe   cloth  -entrusted	 to  the  company  by  the   TextileCommissioner  for  dyeing  has not been	 returned.   By	 itsletter	 dated	December  4,  1950,  the  company   admittedliability to deliver 1,29,748 yards of cloth, but this clothhas  not been returned to the Textile Commissioner in  spiteof  repeated demands.  That the appellants, as directors  ofthe company had dominion over that cloth was not  questionedin,  the  trial	 court.	  The plea  that  there	 were  otherDirectors324of the company besides the appellants who had dominion	overthe  cloth has been negatived by the High Court and  in	 ourjudgment    rightly.	Direct	 evidence    to	   establishmisappropriation of the cloth over which the appellants	 haddominion  is undoubtedly lacking, but to establish a  chargeof criminal breach of trust, the prosecution is not  obligedto prove the precise mode of conversion, misappropriation ormisapplication	by the accused of the property entrusted  tohim or over which he has dominion.  The principal ingredientof   the   offence  being  dishonest   misappropriation	  orconversion  which may not ordinarily be a matter  of  directproof,	entrustment of property and failure in breach of  anobligation to account for the property entrusted, if proved,may in the light of other circumstances, justifiably lead to-an  inference of dishonest misappropriation or	 conversion.Conviction of a person for the offence of criminal breach oftrust  may  not,  in all cases, be  founded  merely  on	 hisfailure	 to  account for the property entrusted to  him,  orover  which he has dominion, even when a duty to account  isimposed	 upon  him,  but where he is unable  to	 account  orrenders	 an explanation for his failure to account which  isuntrue,	 an  inference of  misappropriation  with  dishonestintent may readily be made.In  this  case, on a search of the factory on  December	 29,1952, the cloth remaining to be delivered by the company wasnot  found.  At the trial, the appellants sought to  explainthe  disappearance  of the cloth from the  factory  premiseswhere  it  was stored, on the plea that it was old  and	 waseaten  up by white-ants and moths, and had been thrown	awayas rubbish.  This plea of the appellants was not accepted bythe  High  Court and we think rightly.	No  information	 wasgiven at any time to the Textile Commissioner after December4, 1950, that the cloth had been eaten up by white-ants	 andmoths, and was therefore thrown away or otherwise destroyed.Nor  was  any  evidence led in support of the  plea  by	 theappellants.In  this  court, counsel for the first	appellant  contendedthat  failure to return the cloth may give rise to  a  civilliability to make good the loss occasioned325thereby,  but  in the circumstances of the case,  the  firstappellant cannot be found guilty of the offence of  criminalbreach of trust.  Counsel submitted that the first appellanthad  left Bombay in 1950 and had settled down  in  Ahmedabadand was attending to a factory in that town, that thereafterthe  first appellant was involved in insolvency	 proceedingsand  was unable to attend to the affairs of the	 company  inBombay,	 and  if, on account of the  pre-occupation  of	 thefirst appellant at Ahmedabad, he was unable to visit  Bombayand the goods were lost, no criminal misappropriation can beattributed  to him.  But the case pleaded by  the  appellantnegatives  this	 submission.   The first  appellant  in	 hisstatement before the trial court admitted that he often wentto  Bombay even after he had migrated to Ahmedabad  and-thathe visited the mill premises and got the same opened by	 theGurkha watchman and he found that the heap of cloth lying inthe mill was getting smaller every time he visited the	milland  on inquiry, he was told by the watchman that every	 dayone basketful of sweepings was thrown away.  He also  statedthat  he  was shown several places in the  compound  of	 thefactory where pits had been filled up with these  sweepings,and  that he found a small heap lying by the side of  the  "Tulsipipe  gutter"  and also in the warehouses in  the	millpremises.   It	is  clear  from	 this  statement  and  otherevidence  on  the  record that even  after  he	migrated  toAhmedabad,  the first appellant was frequently visiting	 thefactory	 at  Bombay.   The  evidence  also  discloses	thatmeetings  of Directors were held from time to time, but	 theminutes	 of the Directors' meetings have not been  produced.The books of account-of the company evidencing disbursementsto the Directors of remuneration for attending the  meetingsand  the  expenses for the alleged collection  and  throwingaway  of  the  sweepings  have not  been  produced.   It  isadmitted  by  the  first appellant  that  the  letter  datedNovember 27, 1952, was written by the second appellant underhis instructions.  In his statement at the trial, the  firstappellant  stated that he was informed of the  letter  datedNovember 26, 1952, from the Textile Commissioner and that he42326could  not attend the office of that officer because he	 wasbusy  attending	 to the insolvency proceedings and  that  hedeputed	 the  second appellant to attend the office  and  toexplain	 and discuss the position.  Be then stated, "We	 hadinformed  the Commissioner that the company was prepared  topay  for  the  cloth remaining after  deducting	 the  amountclaimed	 as damages".  The letter dated November  27,  1952,was  evidently	written	 under the direction  of  the  firstappellant and by that letter, liability to pay for the clothafter certain adjustments for losses alleged to be  sufferedby  the company in carrying out the contract  was  admitted.By  the letter dated December 4, 1950, liability to  deliverthe cloth was admitted and by the letter dated November	 27,1952, liability to pay compensation for the loss  occasionedto  the	 Government was affirmed.  The appellants  who	wereliable to account for the cloth over which they had dominionhave  failed  to  do  so, and they  have  rendered  a  falseexplanation  for their failure to account.  The	 High  Courtwas  of	 the opinion that this false defence viewed  in	 thelight of failure to produce the books of account, the  stockregister  and  the  complete absence  of  reference  in	 thecorrespondence with the Textile Commissioner about the causeof disappearance established misappropriation with  criminalintent. Counsel for the first appellant contended that probably thegoods  passed into the possession of the mortgagees  of	 theassets	of the company. but on this part of the	 submission,no  evidence  was led in the trial court.  Counsel  for	 thefirst	appellant,   relying  upon   the   observations	  inShreekantiah  Ramayya Munipalli v. The State of Bombay	(1),also  contended	 that, in any event, a charge under  s.	 409read  with  s.	34  of	the  Indian  Penal  Code  cannot  beestablished  against the first appellant unless it is  shownthat at the time of misappropriation of the goods, the firstappellant  was	physically  present .  But  the	 essence  ofliability  under s.34 is to be	found in the existence of  acommon	intention  animating the offenders  leading  to	 thedoing of a criminal act in furtherance of the(1)  [1955] 1 S.C R. 1177.327common	intention and presence of the offender sought to  berendered  liable  under s. 34 is not, on the  words  of	 thestatute,  one  of the conditions of its	 applicability.	  Asexplained by Lord Sumner in Barendra Kumar Ghose v. The KingEmperor(') the leading feature of s. 34 of the Indian  PenalCode  is  'participation'  in action.	To  establish  jointresponsibility	for  an	 offence,  it  must  of	 course	  beestablished that a criminal act was done by several persons;the  participation must be in doing the act, not  merely  inits  planning.	A common intention--a meeting  of  minds--tocommit an offence and participation in the commission of theoffence	 in furtherance of that common intention invite	 theapplication  of s. 34.	But this participation need  not  inall  cases be by physical presence.  In	 offences  involvingphysical violence, normally presence at the scene of offenceof  the	 offenders  sought  to be  rendered  liable  on	 theprinciple  of joint liability may be necessary, but such  isnot the case in respect of other offences where the  offenceconsists  of  diverse acts which may be	 done  at  differenttimes	and  places.   In  Shree  Kantiah's  case   (supra),misappropriation  was  committed by removing  goods  from  aGovernment  depot and on the occasion of the removal of	 thegoods, the first accused was not present.  It was  thereforedoubtful  whether he had participated in the  commission  ofthe offence, and this court in those circumstances held thatparticipation by the first accused was not established.	 Theobservations  in Shree Kantiah's case (supra) in so  far  asthey  deal with s. 34 of the Indian Penal Code must, in	 ourjudgment, be read in the light of the facts established	 andare  not  intended  to lay down	 a  principle  of  universalapplication.The High Court has found that the two appellants were liableto  account for the cloth over which they had dominion	and.they  failed to account for the same and therefore each	 hadcommitted the offence of criminal breach of trust.  The HighCourt  observed: " In such a case, if accused Nos.  1 and  2(Appellants 1 & 2) alone were concerned with the receipt  ofthe goods, if they were dealing with the goods all the time,if  they  were	receiving communications  from	the  TextileCommissioner's office and sending replies, to(1)  [1924] L.R. 52 I.A. 40, 52.328them,  and  if the part played by each of them	is  apparentfrom  the manner in which they are shown to have dealt	withthis  contract, then it is a case of two  persons  entrustedwith  the  goods  and  a breach	 of  trust  obviously  beingcommitted by both of them'.It  was submitted that the High Court erred in	finding	 theappellants  guilty  of offences under s. 409 of	 the  IndianPenal Code when the charge framed against them was one unders.  409 read with s. 34 of the Indian Penal Code.  A  chargeframed against the accused person, referring to s. 34 is buta convenient form of giving notice to him that the principleof joint liability is sought to be invoked.  Section 34 doesnot  create an offence; it merely enunciates a principle  ofjoint liability for criminal acts done in furtherance of thecommon intention of the offenders.  Conviction of an accusedperson	recorded,  relying  upon  the  principle  of   jointliability,  is	therefore  for	the  offence  committed	  infurtherance  of the common intention and if the reasons	 forconviction  establish that the accused was convicted for  anoffence committed in furtherance of the common intention  ofhimself	 and  others,  a reference in  the  order  recordingconviction  to s. 34 of the Indian Penal Code may appear  tobe  asurplusage.  The order of the High Court recording	 theconviction of the appellants for the offence under s.  409of  the Indian Penal Code is therefore not illegal.It  was submitted for the first appellant that the  sentencepassed	against	 him  was unduly severe, and  that,  in	 anyevent, no distinction should have been made between him	 andthe  second  appellant	in the matter of  sentence.   It  isevident	 on  the findings accepted by us  that	property  ofconsiderable  value  has been misappropriated by  the  firstappellant.  He was the Managing Director of the company	 an&primarily,  he had dominion over the property  entrusted  tothe  company.  The second appellant was, though a  Director,essentially   a	  technician.	Having	 regard	  to   thesecircumstances,	if  the High Court has	made  a	 distinctionbetween	 the two appellants, we ought not to interfere	withthe  sentence,	which  by  itself  cannot  be  said  to	  beexcessive.The appeal fails and is dismissed.					   Appeal dismissed.329