PETITIONER:THE STATE OF ASSAM	Vs.RESPONDENT:A.   N. KIDWAI, COMMISSIONER OF HILLSDIVISION AND APPEALS,SHDATE OF JUDGMENT:31/01/1957BENCH:ACT:Revenue Tribunal, transfer of powers of-Enactment  authoris-ing  Provincial Government to appoint  Appellate  Authority-Legality-If  an excessive delegation of	 legislative  Power-Notification by Government making such appointment-Validity'Repugnancy--Assam Revenue Tribunal (Transfer of Powers) Act,1948  (Assam IV Of 1948), s. 3(3)-Government of	 India	Act,1935  (25  & 26 Geo. 5. Ch. 42),  S.  296-Eastern  BengalandAssam Excise Act (Eastern Bengal and Assam 1 of 1910), S.  9(2).HEADNOTE:These  appeals by the State of Assam and some other  partiesfrom  a	 number	 of judgments of the High  Court  of  Assam,passed under Art. 226 of the Constitution, quashing  certainorders of the Appellate Authority appointed by the  Governorof  Assam  by  a Notification under s.	3(3)  of  the  AssamRevenue Tribunal (Transfer of Powers) Act, 1948, dated	July5,  1955,  raised the common question of the vires  of	thatsection	 and the validity of the Notification by  which	 theCommissioner of Hills Division and Appeals was appointed theAppellate Authority. in 1955 rival claimants applied for thegrant of licenses and settlement of country spirit shops forthe year 1956-57 and parties dissatisfied with the orders ofthe Deputy Commissioner and those of the296Excise	Commissioner in appeals therefrom, appealed  to	 theAppellate Authority whose orders were, as stated, quashed bythe  High Court. under the Eastern Bengal and  Assam  ExciseAct, 1910, the Board which was the final appellate authoritymeant  the  Provincial Government and  ministers,  who	werenecessarily  members of the Legislature, functioned  as	 theBoard.	Section 296 of the Government of India Act, 1935, bysub-s.	(1) put it a ban on the members of  the	 Legislaturefrom  functioning as the Board and by sub-s.  (2)  empoweredthe  Governor to constitute a tribunal to exercise the	samejurisdiction until the Legislature made other provisions  inthat  behalf.  The Government of Assam constituted a  singlemember tribunal, called at first the Board and later on	 theAssam Revenue Tribunal, which functioned till the passing ofthe  Assam  Revenue  Tribunal  Act,  1946,  empowering	 theProvincial  Government	to  constitute	the  Assam   RevenueTribunal  consisting  of three members.	 In  1948  the	HighCourt  of Assam-was established and shortly  thereafter	 waspassed the Assam Revenue Tribunal (Transfer of Powers)	Act,1948,  abolishing the Assam Revenue Tribunal and  conferringits  jurisdiction on the High Court and the authority to  beappointed by the Provincial Government under s. 3(3) Of	 theAct.  The High Court in disposing of the writ petitions tookthe  view  that	 S. 296(2) Of the Government  of  India	 Actplaced a mandate on the Provincial Legislature to constitutethe tribunal which. it failed to do and that s. 3(3) of	 theAssam  Revenue	Tribunal  (Transfer of	Powers)	 Act,  1948,constituted an excessive delegation of the legislative powerconferred on the Legislature by the Government of India Act,1935,  and that the said Notification was repugnant to s.  9of the Eastern Bengal and Assam Excise Act, 1910 and, there-fore, S. 3(3) of the impugned Act and the Notification	werevoid  and the Appellate Authority not having  been  lawfullyconstituted its orders were nullities.Held  that s. 3(3) -Of the Assam Revenue Tribunal  (Transferof  Powers)  Act, 1948, and the Notification issued  by	 theProvincial Government thereunder were not void.The  purpose  of s. 296(2) Of the Government of	 India	Act,1935,  simply  was  to authorise the  Governors	 of  certainprovinces  to  constitute  an  appellate  tribunal  and	  toprescribe  a  time--limit upto which such  tribunal  was  tofunction  and  not  to impose either an	 obligation  on	 theProvincial  Legislatures to set up one or to compel them  torestrict their powers of legislation	under the Act.	Evenassuming that it did imposesuch an   obligation, it  mustbe held to have been insubstance fully	   discharged	bythe Assam Legislature by the enactnentof  s.  3(3)of   theAssam Revenue Tribunal (Transfer of Powers) Act, 1948.What  the Assam Revenue Tribunal (Transfer of  Powers)	Act,1948,  intended	 to  do	 was  to  transfer  the	 powers	 andjurisdiction   hitherto	 exercised  by	the  Assam   RevenueTribunal			    297to  the High Court and to the authority to be  appointed  bythe  Provincial Government, and the relevant  provisions  ofthe  Act make it quite clear that the Assam Legislature	 hadapplied its mind and clearly determined that such powers andjurisdiction should be distributed between the two.Sub-section  (3)  Of  S. 3 of the Act,	although  not  quitehappily	 drafted,,  leaves  no doubt  that  the	 Legislatureitself constituted the appellate authority mentioned thereinand what was left to the Provincial Government was to selectthe personnel thereof, conformably to the usual practice  ofIndian Legislatures, and, consequently, it could not be saidthat there was an excessive delegation of legislative  powerto the Government :The  word  " appointed " does not necessarily  mean  alreadyappointed,  it	may  also mean " to be appointed  "  at	 anyfuture time.The  impugned  Act was in no way repugnant  to	the  EasternBengal and Assam Excise Act, 1910, as modified by s. 296  ofthe  Government	 of  India  Act,  1935,	 and  there  was  noimpropriety  in	 the  Commissioner  of	Hills  Division	 andAppeals,  assuming that he was the same as the	Commissionerof a Division, being appointed as the Authority to entertainappeals	 from  the  Excise  Commissioner.   Nor	 could	 thepossibility  of	 an appeal from the decision  of  any  otherCommissioner  of a Division coming up before him affect	 thevalidity of the Notification, and it could not be held to berepugnant to S. 9(2) of that Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 346 to	 363of 1956.Appeals	 under Article 132(1) of the Constitution  of  Indiafrom the Judgment and Order dated May 23, 1956, of the AssamHigh Court in Civil Rules Nos. 26, 31, 32 and 33 of 1956 andthe Judgment and Order dated June 12, 1956, of the said HighCourt  in  Civil Rules Nos. 45, 48, 49, 64, 65, 69,  71,  82and, 85 of 1956.S.   M. Lahiri, Advocate-General of Assam, A.V.	 VishwanathaSastri and Naunit Lal, for the appellant in Appeals Nos. 346to 358.A.   V. Vishwanatha Sastri, Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed and  NaunitLal, for the appellant, in Appeal No. 359.N.   C. Chatterjee, Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed and Naunit Lal, forthe appellants in Appeals Nos. 360 and 361.Fakhruddin  Ali Ahmed and Naunit Lal, for the appellants  inAppeals Nos. 362 and 363,38298C.K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, B. Chaudhuri,  S.N.  Andley, Rameshwar Nath.  J. B. Dadachanji, P.  L.  Vohraand  S.	 C. Das, for the respondents Nos. 1 & 2	 in  AppealsNos.  346  and 359, and for respondent No. 1 in	 Appeal	 No.347.P.   B. Das, B. Chaudhuri, S. N. Andley, Remeshwar Nath,  J.B. Dadachanji, P. L. Vohra and S. C. Das, for respondent No.1  in Appeals Nos. 349, 350, 352, 353, 355, 356,  358,	360,361 and 362, for respondent No. 5 in Appeals Nos. 351,	357,361 and 363 and for respondent No. 6 in Appeal No. 356.K.   P. Gupta, for respondent No. 1 in Appeals Nos. 357	 and363.1957.  January 31.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyDAS  C.J.-This judgment will dispose of the above  noted  18several Civil Appeals filed in this Court on certificate  offitness granted by the High Court of Assam under Art. 132 ofthe Constitution of India.  The appeals Nos. 346, 347,	348,349  and 359, are directed against the judgment of the	saidHigh  Court passed on May 23, 1956, in Civil Rules Nos.	 26,31,  32	 and  33 of 1956 issued by the said  High  Court  onseveral petitions filed under Art. 226 of the  Constitution.The rest of the appeals arise out of nine other Civil  Rulesissued	in nine other similar writ applications, which	weredisposed  of  by the judgment pronounced by  the  said	HighCourt  on June 12, 1956, which simply followed its  previousjudgment  dated May 23, 1956.  Each of these appeals  raisesthe  question of the vires of s. 3(3) of the  Assam  RevenueTribunal (Transfer of Powers) Act, 1948 (Assam Act No. 4  of1948)  which is hereinafter referred to as " the 1948 Act  "and of the' validity of the notification No. Rex.  184/52/39issued by the Governor of Assam on July 5, 1955, in exerciseof powers conferred on him by sub-a. (3) of a. 3 of the saidAct  appointing	 the  Commissioner of  Hills  Division	and,Appeals as, the appellate authority under the 1948 Act.	 Allthe appeals were accordingly heard together.			    299In order to correctly appreciate the question raised  beforeus  it	is  necessary  at this stage  to  refer	 to  certainrelevant statutory provisions and rules.  In 1910 was passedthe  Eastern  Bengal and Assam Excise Act  1910	 (E.B.	aildAssam Act 1 of 1910) which is hereinafter called " the	1910Act." It is an Act to consolidate and amend the law in forcein Eastern Bengal and Assam relating to the import,  export,transport,  manufacture, sale and possession  of  intoxicantliquor	and intoxicant drug,%.	Sub-section (2) of s.  3  asamended	 and  adapted,	defines " Board "  -as	meaning	 theProvincial Government of Assam.	 Chapter II of the Act dealswith establishments and control.  Section 8 makes  provisionfor   the  appointment	of  officers  and  the	 conferment,withdrawal  and delegation of powers on them.  Section 9  ofthe Act, which is of importance, was as follows:9(1)   In  all	proceedings  under  this  Act,	the   ExciseCommissioner  and the Commissioner of the Division shall  besubject to the control of the Board, and the Collector shallbe subject to the control of the Excise Commissioner and theBoard, and shall also, in such cases and such matters as theProvincial Government may specify, be subject to the controlof the Commissioner of the Division.(2)Orders  passed  under  this Act or under  any  rule	madehereunder   shall  be  appealable  as  follows	 in   mannerprescribed  by such rules as the Provincial  Government	 maymake in this behalf-(a)to  the  District  Collector,  any  order  passed  by   aCollector other than the District Collector;(b)to  the Excise Comniissiouer or, in such cases  and	suchmatters	 as  the Provincial Government may specify,  to	 theCommissioner  of  the  Divisions, any order  passed  by	 theDistrict Collector; and(c)to the Board, any order passed by the Excise Commissioneror by the Commissioner of a Division.(3)In cases not provided for by clauses (a), (b) and (c)  ofsub-section (2), orders passed under this Act or under rulesmade hereunder shall be appealable in such cases and to suchauthorities  as	 the Provincial Government  may	 declare  byrules made in this behalf.300(4)  The Board, the Excise Commissioner, the Commissioner ofthe  Division  (in  such  cases	 and  such  matters  as	 theProvincial   Government	 may  specify),	 or   the   DistrictCollector  may call for the proceedings held by any  officeror person subordinate to it or him or subject to its or	 hiscontrol	 and pass such orders thereon as it or he may  thinkfit.Chapter	 III  deals with import, export	 and  transport'  ofintoxicants.	 Manufacture,	possession,and	  sale	  ofintoxicants  are  dealt	 with in  Chapter  IV.	 Section  18prohibits the sale of intoxicants except under the authorityand in accordance with the terms and conditions of a licencegranted by the Collector or the Excise Commissioner in	thatbehalf	and makes certain provisions by way of exception  tosuch prohibition.  Chapter V provides for the imposition  ofduties and fees, either generally or for any specified localarea,	on   any  excisable  article   imported,   exported,transported or manufactured under any licence granted  unders.  15	or s. 16 of the Act and the method of levy  of	suchduty.	Chapter	 VI  makes provision for the  form  and	 theconditions of grant of licences permits and passes.  Section28  of this chapter makes it obligatory on the Collector  totake such measures as may best enable him to ascertain localpublic	opinion in, regard to the licensing and location  ofshops.	 Section 29 makes provision for the cancellation  orsuspension  of licences, permits or passes.  Under s. 32  noperson	to  whom a licence has been granted shall  have	 anyclaim  to  the	renewal	 of such licence  or  any  claim  tocompensation  on the determination thereof Chapter VII	laysdown general provisions.  Included in that chapter is s. 36,which  confers	power on the Provincial Government  to	makerules for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of	 theAct or any other law for the time being in force relating tothe Excise Revenue.  Under sub-s. (2) els. (g), (h) and	 (1)of  this section specific power is given to  the  ProvincialGovernment  to make rules regulating the periods  for  whichand,  the  persons  to whom licences for  the  sale  of	 anyintoxicant  may be granted, prescribing the procedure to  befollowed and the matters to be ascertained before-any			    301licence	 for  such sale is granted and laying down,  in	 thecase of any intoxicant, the manner in which the duty on sucharticle	  shall	 be  levied.   Prevention,   detection	 andinvestigation  of offences are dealt with in  chapter  VIII.Chapter IX provides for penalties and procedure.In  exercise  of  the powers conferred on it by	 s.  36	 theProvincial  Government of Assam have made  elaborate  rules.Part  IV of the rules deals with licences,  settlements	 andfees,  duration and number of licences, location  of  shop&,ascertainment  of  local public opinion, the  procedure	 forsettlement,  prohibition  on  grant, of	 retail	 licence  tocertain persons, grant of licence and so on and so forth.  Aperusal	 of  the Act and rules will make it  clear  that  noperson	has any absolute right to sell liquor and  that	 thepurpose of the Act and the rules is to control and  restrictthe  consumption of intoxicating liquors, such	control	 andrestriction  being obviously necessary for the	preservationof public health and morals, and to raise revenue.Then came the Government of India Act, 1935.  It was broughtinto  operation on April I,, 1937.  Section 296 of the	Act,'on  which  the	 main controversy in  these  appeals  turns,before its adaptation ran as follows:-296 (1) No member of the Federal or a Provincial Legislatureshall  be a member of any tribunal in British  India  having'jurisdiction  to entertain appeals or revise  decisions  inrevenue cases.(2)If in any Province an such jurisdiction as aforesaid was,immediately before the commencement of Part III of this Act,vested	 in  the  Local	 Government,  the   Governor   shallconstitute a tribunal, consisting of such person or  personsas he, exercising his individual judgment, may think fit  toexercise the same jurisdiction until other provision in thatbehalf is made by Act of the Provincial Legislature.(3)There  shall	 be  paid to the  members  of  any  tribunalconstituted  under  the	 last  preceding  subsection,	suchsalaries  and  allowances  as the  Governor  exercising	 hisindividual judgment may determine, and302those  salaries	 and,  allowances shall be  charged  on	 therevenues of the Province.It  will..-be recalled that under a. 9 of the 1910  Act	 theBoard,	which  by  a.  3(2)  thereof  meant  the  ProvincialGovernment,   was  the	final  appellate   authority.	 TheProvincial  Government	was composed of ministers  who	werenecessarily  members of the Legislature.  In fact, in  Assamthe ministers used to function as the Board and exercise thefinal  appellate authority under s. 9 of the 1910 Act.	 Thepolicy	 of  Parliament	 was  that-such	 practice  must	  bediscontinued  and hence it introduced a prohibition  againstit  by	sub-s. (1) of s. 296 quoted above The  intention  ofParliament  was not, however, to do away with the  right  offinal appeal but to preserve it.  The ban imposed by  sub-s.(1) prevented the Board, meaning the Provincial	 Government,from functioning as the final appellate authority under	 the1910  Act.  Therefore, some provision had to be made to	 setup  some  other	 body  to  exercise  that  appellate  power.Accordingly  Parliament, by sub-s. (2) of s. 296,  empoweredthe   Governor	of  those  provinces  where  the   appellateauthority was, prior to the commencement of that Act, vestedin  the Provincial Government, to constitute a	tribunal  toexercise the same jurisdiction.	 The tribunal so constitutedby  the	 Governor was to exercise jurisdiction	until  otherprovision  in that behalf was made by the  Legislature.	  Inexercise  of powers conferred on him by sub-s. (2)  of	thatsection	 the Governor of Assam constituted a  single  memberTribunal  called at first the Board and later as  the  AssamRevenue Tribunal.  From, time to time the personnel of	thistribunal was charged by notifications issued in that behalf.The  Assam Revenue Tribunal so constituted by  the  Governorfunctioned until 1946, when the Assam Revenue Tribunal	Act,1946 (Assam Act II of 1946) hereinafter referred to as " the1946 Act " was passed.Sub-section  (1) of a. 3 of the 1946 Act provided  that	 theProvincial  Government	should constitute a tribunal  to  becalled the Assam Revenue Tribunal consisting of a  Presidentand two, members.  Sub-section (2)			    303fixed  their period of service as five years.  The  qualifi-cations of the President and the members were prescribed  bysub-s. (3) and provision was made by sub-s. (4.) for fillingup   of	 vacancies.   Sub-section  (5)	provided  that	 thepresident  and the non-official members should be paid	suchsalary	as  might be prescribed, i,e., prescribed  by  rulesmade  under the Act.  Powers and functions of  the  tribunalwere  defined by Ps 5 and 6 of the Act.	 Sub-section (2)  ofs.  5  conferred on the tribunal jurisdiction  to  entertainappeals	 and  revise  the decisions  in	 all  revenue  casesarising under the provisions of the enactments specified  inthe  schedule in which such jurisdiction was vested  in	 theProvincial  Government	immediately  before  the  Act.	 Theschedule set out nine enactments.  Section 7 prohibited	 anyfurther	 appeal or revision against any order passed by	 thetribunal.   Section  8, however, conferred on  the  tribunalpower  to  review its own orders.  Section 9  abolished	 theAssam  Revenue	Tribunal  constituted by  the  Governor	 andprovided  that	all appeals and	 applications  for  revisionpending	 before the said tribunal should be deemed  to	havebeen  instituted before the tribunal constituted under	thisAct and directed the same to be decided by this tribunal  asif they were instituted before it.  In exercise of powers soconferred  on  it the Provincial  Government  constituted  athree  member  tribunal	 to  exercise  the  final  appellateauthority.Thus,  broadly speaking, under the 1910 Act up to March	 31,1937, appeals lay under s. 9 from the Deputy Commissioner tothe  Excise Commissioner and from the latter to	 the  Board,that  is  to say, the Provincial Government.   On  and	fromApril  1, 1937, when the Government of India Act, 1935	cameinto  force  up to June 1946 when the 1946  Act	 was  passedappeals	 lay  from  the Deputy Commissioner  to	 the  ExciseCommissioner and from the latter to the one member  tribunalconstituted by the Governor of Assam and after the enactmentof  the 1946 Act, Which abolished the  Governor's  tribunal,appeals	 1  say from the Deputy Commissioner to	 the  ExciseCommissioner and from304the  latter to the three member tribunal  constituted  underthe 1946 Act.On  April  5,  1948, a High Court was  established  for	 theprovince  of  Assam.  On April 6, 1948,	 the  Assam  RevenueTribunal (Transfer of Powers) Act, 1948 (Assam IV of  1948),received  the  assent-of  the Governor	of  Assam.   It	 waspublished in the official gazette on April 8, 1948, and	 wasbrought into force on the same day by a notification  issuedby  the Provincial Government under a. 1 (3).  Section 3  ofthis 1948 Act runs as follows:3  (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3) of	thissection	  the	Assam  High  Court   shall   exercise	suchjurisdiction  to entertain appeals and revise  decisions  inrevenue	 cases	as was vested in the  Provincial  Governmentimmediately  before the first day of April, 1937  under	 anylaw for the time being in force.(2)in particular and without prejudice to the generality  ofthe  foregoing	provision the Assam High  Court	 shall	havejurisdiction  to entertain appeals and revise  decisions  inall  revenue  cases  arising under  the	 provisions  of	 theenactments   specified	 in  Schedule  A   in	which	suchjurisdiction   was  vested  in	the  Provincial	  Governmentimmediately before the first day of April 1937, and(3)Without   prejudice	to  the	 foregoing  provisions	 theauthority  appointed  by  general or special  order  of	 theProvincial  Government shall exercise such  jurisdiction  toentertain  appeals and revise decisions in  matters  arisingunder  the  provisions	of  the	 enactments  ,specified	  inSchedule  B as is exercised now by the Revenue Tribunal	 andwas vested in the Provincial Government before the first dayof April 1937, and(4)The	Assam  High  Court and the  authority  appointed  byProvincial  Government shall have jurisdiction to  entertainappeals	  and	revise	decisions  within   the	  field	  ofjurisdiction  respectively  transferred by this Act  to	 theAssam  High  Court  and	 the  authority	 appointed  by	 theProvincial Government in oases specified in section 7 (2). , The drafting of this section is, indeed curious, for  whilesub-a. (1) starts with the words of reservation			    305namely	'subject  to the provisions of sub-s.  (3)  of	thissection'  and  sub-s.  (2)  is	without	 prejudice  to	 thegenerality  of	sub-s. (1), sub-s. (3) is  expressed  to  be"without prejudice to the foregoing provisions", that, is tosay  the  provisions  of sub-ss. (1)  and  (2).	  Section  5prohibits  any appeal or revision against any orders  passedby the Assam High Court or the "authority referred to in  s.3 (3)" in exercise of its powers of appeal or revision underthe Act.  Section 6 confers power on the Assam High Court orthe  "authority referred to in s. 3 (3)" to review  its	 owndecision  or  order  under certain  conditions.	  Section  7provides for the abolition of the Assam Revenue Tribunal andthe  disposal of pending cases before the same.	 It runs  asfollows:"7 (1) From the date on which this Act comes into force-The  Assam  Revenue Tribunal shall be deemed  to  have	beenabolished;  and the President and members thereof  shall  bedeemed	to  have relinquished their posts as  President	 andmembers of the Tribunal.(2)The appeals and applications for revision pending  beforethe  said Tribunal on the date on which this Act comes	intoforce  shall  be deemed to have been instituted	 before	 theAssam  High Court or the authority referred to in s.  3	 (3)according  to the field of jurisdiction transferred by	thisAct   to  the  High  Court  and	 the   aforesaid   authorityrespectively and shall be decided as if they were institutedbefore the Assam High Court or the authority as the case maybe."It  is difficult to appreciate the propriety of the  use  ofthe  word 'deemed' in sub-s. (1) of s. 7 and this  vaguenesshas  given  rise to some argument before us  which  will  bedealt  with later on.- Section 8 confers power on the  AssamHigh  Court  to make rules by notification in  the  officialgazette	 consistent  with  the provisions of  this  Act	 forcarrying  out  the  purpose of this Act and  like  power  isconferred  on  the Provincial Government to make  rules	 forthe,   guidance	 of  the  authority  appointed	by  it	 "ascontemplated by s. 3 (3)".  The Act contains two  schedules.Schedule A -contains five enactments, namely, the first fourand the ninth enactment referred to in the schedule of the393061946 Act, and sch.  B contains the remaining four enactmentsof the schedule to the 1946 Act.  Under s. 3 the appeals andrevisions arising out of the enactments specified in sch.  Aare to be dealt with by the High Court and those arising outof the enactments specified in sch.  B are to be dealt	withby  the authority appointed by general or special  order  ofthe Provincial Government.In  exercise  of powers conferred on it by s. 3 (3)  of	 the1948 Act the Provincial Government from time to time  issuednotifications  appointing persons to exercise the  power  ofthe  appellate authority.  When the Act came into  force  onApril  8,  1948	 the Revenue  Secratary	 was  appointed	 theappellate authority.  Curiously enough, however, on June 15,1948, the Minister of Excise to the Government of Assam	 wasappointed  as  the appellate authority.	 This  was  promptlychallenged  as a flagrant violation of the provisions of  s.296  (1)  of  the Government of India  Act,  1935,  and	 wasultimately  declared to be invalid by the Assam High  Court.Thereafter fresh notifications were issued on September	 15,1952,  and  May 11, 1955, each superseding  the	 immediatelyprevious  notification.	 On June 2, 1955, a new post  calledthe Commissioner of Hills Divisions and Appeals was  createdand  Notification No. Rex. 184/52/39 was issued on  July  5,1955,  whereby	the  Commissioner  of  Hills  Divisions	 andAppeals	 was  appointed	 as the	 appellate  authority  aftercancellation of the preceding notification dated the May 11,1955.In  1955  arose	 the  question	of.  granting  licence	 andsettlements  of country spirit shops in different areas	 forthe   year   1956-57.	Rival  claimants   submitted   theirrespective  applications.   The Deputy Commissioner  on	 theadvice	 of   the  Advisory  Committee,	 made	orders	 forsettlements  in	 favour of certain  persons.   Appeals	werepromptly  preferred  by the disappointed  claimants  to	 theExcise Commissioner.  The Excise Commissioner in some  casesupheld	the  orders of the Deputy Commissioner and  in	somecases  reversed his orders and directed licence to issue  tosome other claimants.  The party dissatisfied with the orderof the Excise Commissioner went up on further appeal to	 theappellate			    305namely	subject	 to  the provisions of sub-s.  (3)  of	thissection'  and  sub-s.  (2)  is	without	 prejudice  to	 thegenerality  of	sub-s. (1), sub-s. (3) is  expressed  to  be"without prejudice to the foregoing provisions", that, is tosay  the  provisions  of sub-ss. (1)  and  (2).	  Section  5prohibits  any appeal or revision against any orders  passedby the Assam High Court or the "authority referred to in  s.3 (3)" in exercise of its powers of appeal or revision underthe Act.  Section 6 confers power on the Assam High Court orthe  "authority referred to in s. 3 (3)" to review  its	 owndecision  or  order  under certain  conditions.	  Section  7provides for the abolition of the Assam Revenue Tribunal andthe  disposal of pending cases before the same.	 It runs  asfollows:"7 (1) From the date on which this Act comes into force-The  Assam  Revenue Tribunal shall be deemed  to  have	beenabolished  and	the President and members thereof  shall  bedeemed	to  have relinquished their posts as  President	 andmembers of the Tribunal.(2)The appeals and applications for revision pending  beforethe  said Tribunal on the date on which this Act comes	intoforce  shall  be deemed to have been instituted	 before	 theAssam  High Court or the authority referred to in s.  3	 (3)according  to the field of jurisdiction transferred by	thisAct   to  the  High  Court  and	 the   aforesaid   authorityrespectively and shall be decided as if they were institutedbefore the Assam High Court or the authority as the case maybe."It  is difficult to appreciate the propriety of the  use  ofthe  word 'deemed' in sub-s. (1) of s. 7 and this  vaguenesshas  given  rise to some argument before us  which  will  bedealt  with later on.- Section 8 confers power on the  AssamHigh  Court  to make rules by notification in  the  officialgazette	 consistent  with  the provisions of  this  Act	 forcarrying  out  the  purpose of this Act and  like  power  isconferred  on  the Provincial Government to make  rules	 forthe,   guidance	 of  the  authority  appointed	by  it	 "ascontemplated by s. 3 (3)".  The Act contains two schedules,.Schedule A contains five enactments, namely, the first	fourand the ninth enactment referred to in the schedule of the393061946 Act, and sch.  B contains the remaining four enactmentsof the schedule to the 1946 Act.  Under s. 3 the Is  appealsand  revisions	arising out of the enactments  specified  insch.   A  are to be dealt with by the High Court  and  thosearising out of the enactments specified in sch.	 B are to bedealt with by the authority appointed by general or  specialorder of the Provincial Government.In  exercise  of powers conferred on it by s. 3 (3)  of	 the1948 Act the Provincial Government from time to time  issuednotifications  appointing persons to exercise the  power  ofthe  appellate authority.  When the Act came into  force  onApril  8,  1948,  the Revenue Secretary	 was  appointed	 theappellate authority.  Curiously enough, however, on June 15,1948, the Minister of Excise to the Government of Assam	 wasappointed  as  the appellate authority.	 This  was  promptlychallenged  as a flagrant violation of the provisions of  s.296  (1)  of  the Government of India  Act,  1935,  and	 wasultimately  declared to be invalid by the Assam High  Court.Thereafter fresh notifications were issued on September	 15,1952,  and  May 11, 1955, each superseding  the	 immediatelyprevious  notification.	 On June 2, 1955, a new post  calledthe Commissioner of Hills Divisions and Appeals was  createdand  Notification No. Rex. 184/52/39 was issued on  July  5,1955,  whereby	the  Commissioner  of  Hills  Divisions	 andAppeals	 was  appointed	 as the	 appellate  authority  aftercancellation of the preceding notification dated the May 11,1955.In  1955  arose	 the  question	of.  granting  licence	 andsettlements  of country spirit shops in different areas	 forthe   year   1956-57.	Rival  claimants   submitted   theirrespective  applications.   The Deputy Commissioner  on	 theadvice	 of   the  Advisory  Committee,	 made	orders	 forsettlements  in	 favour of certain  persons.   Appeals	werepromptly  preferred  by the disappointed  claimants  to	 theExcise Commissioner.  The Excise Commissioner in some  casesupheld	the  orders of the Deputy Commissioner and  in	somecases  reversed his orders and directed licence to issue  tosome other claimants.  The party dissatisfied with the orderof the Excise Commissioner went up on further appeal to	 theappellate			    307authority constituted by the last mentioned Notification  ofthe  Provincial	 Government.  In some cases  the,  appellateauthority upheld the orders of the Excise' Commissioner,  insome  cases it reversed the same and restored the orders  ofthe  Deputy Commissioner and in some cases it  reversed	 theorders	of the Excise Commissioner and did not	restore	 theorders	of the Deputy Commissioner but made orders  for	 thegrant  of licences to third parties who were also  claimantsfor such licences.  Parties dissatisfied with the order madeby  the appellate authority filed petitions under  Art.	 226of- the Constitution of India for appropriate writs quashingthe orders of the Appellate Authority and, the several CivilRules	herein	before	referred  to  were  issued  to	 therespondents  to show cause why the write prayed	 for  shouldnot  be issued.	 Civil Rules Nos. 26, 31, 32 and 33, all  of1956, were taken up for hearing together by the High Court.At  the	 hearing  before the High Court	 three	points	wereraised on behalf of the petitioners, namely:(1)  That s. 3(3) of the 1948 Act was bad, because (a) itwas  repugnant to s. 296 (2) and (b) it conferred  essentiallegislative power on the Provincial Government and  amountedto excessive delegation of legislative power;(2)  that Notification No. Rex. 184/52/39 issued on July  5,1955,  was repugnant to the whole scheme and policy of s.  9of the 1910 Act; and(3)  that  assuming that s. 3(3) of the 1948 Act  was  validthe  power  of	- the Provincial Government  to	 appoint  anappellate  authority came to an end once the  authority	 hadbeen appointed.On  the	 first point the High Court took the  view  that  s.296(2) placed an obligation on the Provincial Legislature toconstitute a tribunal but the Provincial Legislature  failedto carry out this positive mandate and left the constitutionof  the appellate authority to the Provincial Government  inviolation  of the obligation enjoined upon it by s.  296(2).This  reading of a. 296(2) later on was	 further  emphasizedand   appears  to  have	 been  the  central  theme   runningthroughout  the judgment of the High Court.  The High  Courtalso308took  the  view that, apart from s. 296(2), s. 3(3)  of	 the1948 Act constituted an excessive delegation of	 legislativepower conferred on the Provincial Legislature by ss. 99	 and100 of the Government of India Act, 1935, read with  entries2,  31	and 40 of list II of the Seventh  schedule  thereto.The High Court also upheld the petitioner's contention	thatthe  Notification dated July 5, 1955, was repugnant to s.  9of  the	 1910 Act.  In the view the High Court took  on	 thefirst two points it did not express any opinion on the thirdpoint.	 In the result the High Court held that s.  3(3)  ofthe  1948 Act and the said Notification were void and'	thatthe appellate authority which heard the revenue appeals	 hadnot   been  validly  or	 lawfully  constituted	 and   that,therefore,  its	 decisions were nullities.  The	 High  Courtaccordingly  issued  appropriate  writs	 quashing  the	saidorders.	 The other Civil Rule& came up for hearing later  onand  were disposed of by another judgment of the High  Courtpronounced  on	June  12, 1956, which  simply  followed	 itsearlier	 decision  and	accordingly the	 High  Court  issuedsimilar writs quashing the said orders.	 The State of  Assamas well as some of 'the parties have come up on appeal	withthe  requisite	certificate from the High  Court  as  hereinbefore mentioned.The  main  attack  on the part of the  State  of  Assam	 wasdirected  against the High Court's view that s. 3(3) of	 the1948  Act  was void on the two grounds referred	 to  in	 thejudgment.  As already indicated the principal theme  runningthroughout   that  judgment  was  that	s.  296(2)  of	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935 had placed an  obligation  onthe Provincial Legislature to constitute a tribunal.  We areunable to accept this reading of that section.	The  purposeof  s.	296  was to deal with courts of	 appeal	 in  revenuecases.	By sub-s. (1) it imposed a ban on the members of theFederal	 or Provincial Legislature and prohibited them	frombecoming  members  of any tribunal in British  India  havingjurisdiction  to  entertain appeals or revise  decisions  inrevenue	 cases.	  It appears that in some of  the  provincessuch  jurisdiction was, immediately before the	commencementof Part III of the Government of			    309India  Act, vested in the local government, which in  effectmeant  ministers, who of necessity had to be members of	 theLegislature.   Having imposed the ban and at the  same	timeintending  that	 the  right  of	 final	appeal,	 should	  bemaintained, Parliament had to make provision for  preservingthis right of final appeal in those provinces in which	suchjurisdiction  was,  immediately before the  commencement  ofPart  III  of  the  Act, vested	 in  the  local	 Government.Accordingly Parliament authorized the Governor to constitutea  tribunal  consisting	 of such person or  persons  as	 he,exercising  his	 individual judgment, might  think  fit,  toexercise the same jurisdiction.	 In ss. 99 and 100 read withthe  several  entries  in List	II  Parliament	had  alreadyauthorised  the	 Provincial Legislatures to make  laws	withrespect to the jurisdiction and powers of all courts  exceptthe  Federal  Court (entry 2),	Intoxicating  and,  NarcoticDrugs (entry 31) and Duties of Excise (Entry 40).  EvidentlyParliament  did	 not intend that the power to  constitute  atribunal  so conferred on Provincial Legislatures  of  thoseprovinces  in which appellate jurisdiction was, at the	dateof  that  Act,	vested in the  local  government  should  beaffected or whittled down by the constitution of a  tribunalby the Governor under sub-s. (2) and accordingly it providedthat  the tribunal constituted by the Governor	to  exercisethe  appellate jurisdiction should continue 64	until  otherprovision  in  that  behalf " was made by  the	Act  of	 theProvincial  Legislature.   The	concluding  clause  in	 thesection clearly indicated the point of time up to which	 theGovernor's  tribunal  was to function.	The purpose  of	 thesection	 was  clearly not to impose any restriction  on	 thelegislative  power conferred on the Provincial	Legislaturesby ss. 99 and 100 read with the aforesaid entries in list IIof the Seventh schedule.  Sub-section (2) of s. 296  imposedno compulsion whatever on the Provincial Legislature to make"  other provision in that behalf ". Indeed no provision  inthat  behalf  was  made by the Assam  Legislature  until  itenacted the 1946 Act.  We are unable, with great respect, toread  into  s. 296(2) any mandate requiring  the  ProvincialLegislature to make310any provision.	On the contrary it was left entirely to	 theProvincial Legislature in the provinces referred to  thereinto make or not to make any law under the entries referred toabove and the only effective provision. of that	 sub-sectionwas  to authorise the Governor to constitute a tribunal	 andto fix a terminus a quo up to which the Governor's  tribunalcould continue to function.Learned	 counsel  appearing  for the  respondents  have	 notsought	to  support  the extreme construction  put  upon  s.296(2)	by the High Court.  They have, however, pointed	 outthat  the  Governor's tribunal was to continue	until  otherprovision  "  in that behalf " was made	 by  the  ProvincialLegislature and contended that some meaning must be given tothe  words "in that behalf".  They argued that	those  wordsrelated	 back  and  referred  to  the  constitution  of	 thetribunal  by the Governor, that so read the meaning  of	 thesubsection  plainly was that the Governor's tribunal was  tocontinue to function until the Provincial Legislate are madeother  provision for the constitution of a tribunal  of	 itsown.   They  conceded  that  the  power	 of  the  ProvincialLegislature to constitute a tribunal was not derived from s.296 (2) but was conferred on it by ss. 99 and 100 read	withthe relevant entries in List 11 of the Seventh schedule, butthey contended that the provision that until in exercise  ofthose  powers  the  Provincial	Legislature  constituted   atribunal  the  Governors  tribunal  would  continue  clearlyindicated that the Governor's tribunal was to be a temporarybody   and  this  circumstance	impliedly  imposed  on	 theProvincial   Legislature  an  obligation  requiring  it	  toexercise its power only for constituting a tribunal.  We areunable	 to  accept  this  contention.	 The  Governor	 wasempowered  to  constitute a tribunal to	 exercise  the	samejurisdiction as was, immediately before, the commencement ofPart III of the Government of India Act, 1935, vested in theProvincial  Government.	 The tribunal so constituted by	 theGovernor was to function until other provision was made	 "inthat  behalf"..	 The  words  "in  that	behalf"	 need;	 notnecessarily  relate back to the constitution of a  tribunal.Learned counsel			    311for  the appellants suggest that the words "other  provisionin  that  behalf" may grammatically refer to  what  precededimmediately,   namely,	 to  the  exercise   of	  the	samejurisdiction.	In  other words they contend that  the	sub-section means that the Governor's tribunal would continue toexercise  the  jurisdiction until other	 provision  in	thatbehalf, that is to say, other provision for or with  respectto the exercise of the same jurisdiction was made by Act  ofthe  Provincial	 Legislature.  It is pointed  out  that	 theconstruction   suggested   by  learned	 counsel   for	 therespondents  would  lead  us  to  the  conclusion  that	 theintendedly of the concluding part of the Sub-section was  toimpose a fetter on the legislative powers of the  ProvincialLegislatures   of  those  provinces  referred  to   in	 thesubsection so that they could constitute a tribunal if	theyever  wanted to exercise their legislative powers under	 theentries	 mentioned above but could make no  other  provisionwith  respect  to the exercise of such jurisdiction  as	 wasbeing	exercised  by  the  Provincial	Government  at	 thecommencement of the Government of India Act, 1935.  On	thisconstruction the Legislatures of those provinces only  wouldbe  prevented  from abolishing the right  of  final  appeal,while  other provinces in which the  appellate	jurisdictionwas not, at the date of the commencement of Part III of	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935, being exercised by the  localgovernment  would  be  free to abolish the  right  of  finalappeal.	 A construction which leads to such a result should,they  contend,	be  avoided, if	 possible.   The  criticismsadvanced against the construction put upon s. 296 (2) by theHigh  Court  which has been pressed upon us  in	 a  slightlymodified  form as hereinbelow mentioned do not appear to  usto be wholly untenable or devoid of substance.	We need not,however, base our decision on those considerations, for on aplain  reading	of  s. 296 (2) its purpose  clearly  was  toauthorize the Governors of certain provinces to constitute atribunal  and  to  prescribe a time limit up  to  which	 thetribunal so constituted by him was to exercise the appellatejurisdiction.  Beyond this the sub-section was not  intendedto go, It was not concerned with the legislative312powers	of  the Provincial Legislatures which  had  ,alreadybeen  prescribed by ss. 99 and 100 read with List 11 of	 theSeventh	  schedule.   It  imposed  no  compulsion   on	 theProvincial  Legislatures  to make any law or to	 impose	 anyrestriction  whatever  on  the	legislative  powers  of	 theProvincial Legislatures.  The critical concluding clause  insub-s.	(2)  only  fixed a terminus a quo  and	did  nothingfurther.   Even assuming that the construction suggested  bylearned	 counsel  for the respondents were to  be  accepted,namely,	 that  s.  296	(2) imposed  an	 obligation  on	 theProvincial Legislature to constitute a tribunal, we take theview,  for reasons to be presently stated,  that  obligationhas  in	 substance been fully discharged by s. 3(3)  of	 the1948 Act and this leads us to a consideration of the  secondpoint founded on the doctrine of delegation of power.It was said that apart from the questions whether s. 296 (2)contained  a mandate and whether the Provincial	 Legislaturehad obeyed the same, s. 3 (3) of the 1948 Act must be struckdown  on the ground that the Provincial Legislature had	 notexercised its essential legislative functions, under ss.  99and 100 read with the aforesaid entries but had delegated itto the Provincial Government without laying down any  policyor  principle  to guide the latter in exercising  the  same.Reference was made to the 1946 Act and it was urged that Actprima  facie  carried out the obligations  placed  upon	 thelegislature by s. 296 (2) and that apart from that  questionthat  Act  laid down the policy and principle,	namely,	 thenumber	of  members of the tribunal,  their  qualifications,functions,  and	 term of their office and  remuneration	 andthat  the only authority which the legislature by  that	 Actdelegated  to  the Provincial Government was to	 select	 thepersonnel of the tribunal.  In comparison it was pointed outthat the 1948 Act did not lay down any legislative policy orprinciple  by  which  the Provincial Government	 was  to  beguided in the exercise of the delegated power.	By doing  sothe  Provincial	 Legislature  had in  effect  abdicated	 itsfunction  and  made  the Provincial  Government	 a  parallellegislative authority to constitute a			    313tribunal.   In	short,	as stated by  the  High	 Court,	 thelegislature told the Provincial Government " you appoint thetribunal  as and when you like instead of my doing so."	 Thelegislature,  it was contended, could not in this  way	partwith   its  essential  legislative   functions.	   Elaboratearguments  were	 advanced before us as	to  the	 permissiblelimit  of delegation of legislative power and reference	 wasmade  to numerous authorities English, American and  Indian,ranging from Burke's case (1) to In be, Delhi Laws Act, 1912(2)  and finally to Raj Narain Singh v. The Chairman,  PatnaAdministration	Committee(3).  In the view we have taken  ofthe true meaning and effect of the 1948 Act it is,  however,not  necessary	for us to embark upon a	 discussion  on	 thebaffling subject of delegation of legislative powers and thepermissible limits thereof as to which there is considerablescope for divergence of opinion.In order to correctly interpret the 1948 Act one has to havea  clear  conception of the circumstances in which  and	 thepurpose for which that statute came to be enacted.  It	willbe  recalled  that there was the 1910 Act dealing  with	 theexcise	law in force in Eastern Bengal and Assam.  That	 Actset  out a hierarchy of appellate authority as	will  appearfrom s. 9(2) of that Act hereinbelow quoted.  Then came	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935, s. 296(2) of which authorisedthe  Governor  to  constitute a	 tribunal  to  exercise	 theappellate  jurisdiction	 that was,  immediately	 before	 thecommencement of that Act, being exercised by the  ProvincialGovernment.   The Governor's tribunal was to  exercise	suchjurisdiction  until  the Provincial Legislature	 made  otherprovision  with respect thereto.  By the 1946 Act the  AssamLegislature  made other provision- for the exercise  of	 thefinal  appellate powers by the tribunal constituted  by	 theProvincial Government in exercise of the powers conferred onit  by s. 3 of that Act.  Jurisdiction was conferred on	 theTribunal  to entertain appeals and revise decisions  in	 allrevenue cases arising under the1.   [1878] L. R. A. 178.3.   [1955] 1 S. C. R. 290.402. [T951] S. C. R. 747.314provisions of the nine enactments specified in the  schedulethereto,  and  in all cases which stood transferred  to	 theTribunal from the Assam Revenue Tribunal constituted by	 theGovernor  as specified in S. 9. The High Court of Assam	 hadjust been established on April 5, 1948.	 The purpose of	 the1948  Act, as recited in its preamble, was to  transfer	 thepower,%	 and jurisdiction exercised by the revenue  tribunalto  the	 Assam High Court and to an authority  appointed  bygeneral	 or  special  order of	the  Provincial	 Government.Section	 3,  which has been quoted  above,  constituted	 theAssam  High Court as the appellate authority for  exercisingsuch jurisdiction to entertain appeals and revise  decisionsin revenue cases as was vested in the Provincial  Governmentimmediately  before April 1, 1937, and in particular in	 allrevenue cases arising under the provisions of the enactmentsspecified  in  sch.  A to the Act.  By Sub-s. (3)  of  s.  3power was conferred on the Authority appointed by general orspecial order of the Provincial Government to exercise	suchjurisdiction  to entertain appeals and revise  decisions  inmatters arising under the provisions of enactments specifiedin  sch.  B to the Act as was then exercised by the  revenuetribunal and was vested in the Provincial Government  beforeApril 1, 1937.	Turning to the schedules to the Act it	willbe  noticed  that the first four and the ninth item  of	 theschedule to the 1946 Act have been set out in sch.  A to the1948  Act and items 5 to 8 of the schedule to the  1946	 Acthave  been assigned to sch.  B to the 1948 Act.	 By s. 7  ofthe  1948 Act the Assam Revenue Tribunal is to be deemed  tohave  been  abolished  and the	President  and	the  members-thereof  are to be deemed to have relinquished their  postsas  President and members of the tribunal.  Sub-section	 (2)of  that section transfers the appeals and applications	 forrevision  pending before the Assam Revenue Tribunal  to	 theAssam  High  Court or the authority referred to in  s.	3(3)according to the field of - jurisdiction transferred by	 the1948  Act  to  the High Court and  the	aforesaid  authorityrespectively  and  directs  that  the  High  Court  and	 theaforesaid authority should decide such appeals			    315and  applications  for revision as if they  were  institutedbefore the Assam High Court or the authority as the case maybe.  Section 8 confers rule making power on, amongst others,the Provincial Government for the guidance of the  Authorityappointed  by  it as contemplated by s. 3(3).	Reading	 therelevant  provisions of the Act it is quite clear  that	 theAssam  Legislature had applied its mind and determined	thatthe  Assam Revenue Tribunal constituted under the  1946	 Actshould	be abolished; that the Legislature applied its	mindand  further determined that the jurisdiction and powers  ofthe Assam Revenue Tribunal should be distributed between twobodies,	 namely, those specified in schedule A should go  tothe  High  Court and those specified in schedule  B  to	 theAuthority  referred  to	 in s. 3(3).  At one  stage  of	 thearguments an endeavour was made to find out a rational basisof the distribution of the appellate powers between the	 twobodies.	  It  was stated that the appeals  or  revisions  inwhich Government was interested were sent to the High Court.A reference to the enactments in the schedules does not bearout this basis of distribution, for the Government may quiteclearly be interested in appeals and revisions arising underthe Assam Forest Regulation, which is assigned to schedule Bas  item (iii) thereof.	 It was also said that	the  appealsand  revisions	with respect to revenue	 matters  have	beenassigned  to  the High Court.  But some	 of  the  enactmentsspecified  in sch.  B relate to revenue.  It is,  therefore,futile	to  try	 and  ascertain	 a  logical  basis  for	 thedistribution  of  the appellate authority  between  the	 twobodies.	  Nor  do we think that it is necessary	 at  all  todivine	any  rational basis for such  distribution.   It  isenough to say that the legislature in its wisdom and in	 theinterest of smooth administration has thought fit to  assignsome of the appellate and revisional powers exercised by theAssam Revenue Tribunal to the High Court and the rest to theAuthority referred to in s. 3(3).Two  alternative arguments have been advanced before  us  onthe  assumption	 that the Assam	 Legislature  was  labouringunder some mistake or misapprehension.316In  the	 first place it was urged that the  legislature	 wasunder the mistaken belief that the tribunal set up under the1946  Act  though  abolished for the  purpose  of  that	 Actremained  nevertheless	as  an	existing  tribunal  for	 thepurpose	 of the 1948 Act.  This argument is founded  on	 theinartistic  use of the word "deemed" in s. 7(1) of the	1948Act.   But  this argument cannot hold good for a  moment  inview of sub-s. (2) of that section, whereby the appeals	 andapplications  for revision pending before the Assam  RevenueTribunal  on  and from the date of the 1948 Act were  to  bedeemed	to have been instituted before the Assam High  Courtor  the Authority referred to in s. 3(3) and the Assam	HighCourt  or  the said Authority was directed  to	decide	suchappeals	 and applications as if they were instituted  beforethe Assam High Court or the Authority as the case might	 be.This shows that the Assam High Court and the Authority	are,therefore, bodies quite different from the old Assam RevenueTribunal.  Therefore, it cannot possibly be argued that	 theold  1946  Act	tribunal,  notwithstanding  its	  abolition,continued to exist for the purpose of the 1948 Act, for sub-s.  (2) of s. 7 quite clearly authorised the High Court	 andthe  Authority referred to in s. 3(3) but not the  1946	 ActTribunal   to  decide  the  appeals  and  applications	 forrevision,  which were pending before the old  Assam  RevenueTribunal.The  alternative  argument  was	 that  the  legislature	  inenacting the 1948 Act proceeded on the basis that the  powerto  set up a tribunal resided in the  Provincial  Governmentand  not in the legislature and that, there fore,  the	1948Act  did  not  purport	to be an  Act  for  constituting  anappellate tribunal but that the purpose of the Act was	onlyto  distribute	the  appellate	powers	as  recited  in	 itspreamble.   It was argued that by this Act  the	 legislaturedid  not  itself  constitute a tribunal	 nor  authorise	 theProvincial Government to set up a tribunal.  It was  furthercontended that assuming that the legislature had  authorisedthe  Provincial Government to set, up a tribunal then  therehad  been an excess of delegation of legislative power.	  Weare unable to accept the correctness of this alternative			    317argument.  There is no particular form of expression that isnecessary for constituting a tribunal.	The Assam High Courtwas undoubtedly an existing tribunal, but apart from s. 3(1)and  (2)  that	High Court was not  an	appellate  authorityhaving	 jurisdiction  to  entertain  appeals	and   revisedecisions in all revenue cases arising under the  provisionsof the enactments specified in schedule A to the Act.  It isthe  1948  Act	which,	by sub-ss. (1)	and  (2)  of  s.  3,constitutes the Assam High Court as the appellate  authorityfor  exercising	 such Jurisdiction and this it has  done  bysimply saying that the Assam High Court shall exercise	suchjurisdiction or the Assam High Court shall have jurisdictionto  entertain  appeals	and to	revise	decisions.   If	 thelanguage  of  sub-ss. (1) and (2) of s. 3 is  sufficient  toconstitute  the Assam High Court as an	appellate  authoritywhy does not the language of sub-s. (3) of the same  sectionamount	to  the constitution of the  Authority	referred  totherein	  as  the  appellate  authority	 to  exercise	suchjurisdiction  to entertain appeals and revise  decisions  inmatters	 arising  under	 the provisions	 of  the  enactmentsspecified  in  schedule	 B thereto ?   The  sub-section	 hasundoubtedly  been very inartistically and inaptly-  drafted.The  intention of the framers of the  sub-section,  however,appears	 to  be	 quite clear  that  the	 legislature  itselfapplied its mind and constituted an appellate authority.  Ifthat  were  not	 so then after the abolition  of  the  AssamRevenue	 Tribunal, which took effect on the date of the	 Actthere  would  result  a vacuum as regards  the	exercise  ofjurisdiction  to entertain appeals and revisions  under	 theprovisions  of	the enactments specified in schedule  B	 andthere would be no authority to deal with the pending appealsand revisions or future appeals and revisions arising  underthose several enactments.  It is further to be noticed	thatthe   sub-section   uses  the  word  "appointed"   and	 not"constituted".	 The  word "appointed" is  inappropriate  tosignify	 the  constitution  of any authority  but  is  quiteproper	to  signify the selection of the  personnel  of	 thealready	 constituted  authority to  exercise  the  appellatepowers	of  that  authority.  In order to  give	 a  rationalmeaning to the318whole Act one is driven to the conclusion that by subs.	 (3)the  legislature itself constituted the authority  and	onlyleft  it to the Provincial Government to appoint persons  toman  that  authority  and  to perform  the  duties  of	thatauthority.   It appears to be the usual practice  of  Indianlegislatures  to constitute authorities in this manner.	  Insupport	 of such legislative practice reference may be	madeto the following enactments:1.The  Central	Board of Revenue Act, 1924 (Act	 No.  IV  of1924), Section 2.2.   The Indian Boilers Act, 1923 (Act V of 1923),Section   20.3.   Bengal Board of Revenue Act, 1913, Sections  3 and 4.4.   The Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (Act IV of 1939),Section   64.5.   The Factories Act, 1948 (Act LXIII of 1948),Section   107.6.   Schedule Districts Act (XIV of 1874), Section 6.7.   Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act,1946, Section4.8.   Assam Act XVII of 1947 (Sales Tax Act),Section    30.9.   Bombay- Act V of 1946 (Sales Tax Act),Section     21.10.  Bengal Raw Jute Taxation Act (XI of 1941),Section 21.11.  Extra  Provincial Jurisdiction Act, 1947  (Central	 ActXLVII of 1947), Sections 3 and 4.12.  Garo Hills Regulation I of 1882, Section 6.13.  Assam  Requisition	 and Control of	 Vehicles  Act	(ActXXXII of 1950), section 9.14.  Assam Adhiars Protection and Regulation Act, 1948	(ActXII of 1948), Section 9.15.  Assam  Forest Product Acquisition Act (XXXI  of  1950),Section 7."Appointed" does not necessarily mean already appointed.  Itmay also mean "to be appointed" at any future time.  When  aperson	is appointed by the Provincial Government after	 thedate  of  the  Act, he may immediately	thereafter  be	welldescribed   as	 a  person  appointed  by   the	  ProvincialGovernment.			    319It  is	next suggested that even if the	 legislature  itselfconstituted  the  authority  it,  nevertheless,,   delegatedessential   legislative	 functions  with  respect   to	 theappointment  of	 members, for the legislature had  not	laiddown   any   policy   or  principle  as	  to   the   number,qualification, remuneration or period of service of  personsto  be appointed to perform the duties of the tribunal.	  Wedo  not	 think that there is any force in  this	 contention.Section 296(2) of the Government of India Act, 1935, itself,which  authorised the Governor to constitute a tribunal	 didnot  indicate any qualification for the eligibility  of	 thepersons	 to be appointed as members of the tribunal.  It  isclear  that  the  tribunal was to sit  in  appeal  over	 thedecision of the Excise Commissioner and that by itself givessome  indication that the person or persons to be  appointedto  the	 tribunal  should have the  requisite  capacity	 andcompetency  to deal with appeals from such  high  officials.We  do not consider that there has been an  excessive  dele-gation of legislative power.It was finally urged that the intention of the	legislature'in enacting the impugned Act was to give effect, inter alia,to  the	 provisions  of the Excise Act and  that  there	 wasnothing in any portion of the impugned Act to indicate	thatthe intention of the legislature was to effect the repeal ofthe  provisions	 of  s. 9 of the 1910  Act.   There  was  noquestion, it was said, of any implied repeal of any  portionof s. 9. This argument overlooks the fact that in Assam	 the"Board"	 meant the Provincial Government.  Section  296	 (1)debarred the members of the legislature, which included	 theministers,  from exercising any appellate authority  and  s.296 (2) authorised the Governor to constitute a tribunal  toexercise   the	appellate  jurisdiction	 which	 was   beingexercised  by the Provincial Government	 immediately  beforethe  commencement,  of the Government of  India	 Act,  1935.Therefore,  the	 jurisdiction  of  the	Board  meaning	 theProvincial  Government under a. 9 of the 1910 Act was  takenaway and vested first in the Governor's tribunal and  there-after  in the Assam Revenue Tribunal constituted  under	 the1946 Act, and this appellate jurisdiction was320by  the 1948 -Act distributed between the Assam	 High  Courtand  the  authority  referred to in s. 3  (3)  of  the	lastmentioned  Act.	 There is, in the circumstances, nothing  inthe impugned Act which is repugnant to s. 9 (2) as  modifiedby s.296 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	It was	nextpointed	  out	that  the  Excise   Commissioner   and	 theCommissioner  of  a Division had almost	 co-ordinate  powersunder	the  scheme  of	 s.  9,	 that  the  powers  of	 theCommissioner  of  a Division were more	restricted  as	theyrelated	  only	to  matters  specified	by  the	  ProvincialGovernment  and that there was no provision in s. 9 for	 anyappeal to the Commissioner of a Division against the  ordersof  the Excise Commissioner.  This is true enough,  but	 the"Board"	  meaning   the	 Provincial  Government	  bad	beensuperseded  by	s. 296(2) of the Government  of	 India	Act,1935, whereby the Assam Revenue Tribunal was constituted  bythe  Governor  as  the authority to  entertain	appeals	 andrevisions  from	 the Excise  Commissioner.   The  Governor'stribunal   was	replaced  by  the  Assam  Revenue   Tribunalconstituted  under  the	 1946 Act, which  in  its  turn	 wasreplaced  by two authorities, namely, the Assam	 High  Courtand  the Authority referred to in s. 3(3) of the  1948	Act.We see no impropriety in the Commissioner of Hills  Divisionand   Appeals,	assuming  that	he  is	the  same   as	 theCommissioner of a Division, being appointed as the authorityto  entertain appeals from the Excise Commissioner.   It  istrue that appeal from the decision of the Commissioner of  aDivision  in matters specified by the Provincial  Governmentlay initially to the Board and thereafter to the  Governor'stribunal and then to the Assam Revenue Tribunal and  finallyto  the	 tribunal referred to in s. 3 (3) of the  1948	Act.The  possibility of an appeal from the decision of the	Com-missioner  of  a  Division coming up  before  the  authorityreferred  to  in s. 3 (3) cannot in our opinion	 affect	 thevalidity  of  the Notification whereby the  Commissioner  ofHills  Division and Appeals was appointed as  the  authoritycontemplated by s. 3 (3).  At the highest it may be that theCommissioner  of Hills Division and Appeals  exercising	 thepowers of the authority referred			    321to  under  s. 3 (3) may be  disqualified  from	entertainingappeals	 from  his own order, but that does not	 affect	 hispower  to  entertain appeals from the  Excise  Commissioner.Even that situation will not arise, for under r. 341 of	 theExcise	Rules  appeals arising out of cases decided  in	 theexcluded  areas	 by the Commissioner of Hills  Division	 andreseals would go to the Governor.  In any event the drop notappear to be any repugnancy between the Notification and theso  called  principle or policy of a. 9 of the 1910  Act  asregards	 the  hearing of appeals from the decisions  of	 theExcise	Commissioner.  In our opinion there is no  substancein this point.No other point of law or fact has been urged- before us.  Inour  opinion for reasons stated above the judgments  of	 theHIgh  Court appealed from should be set aside and  those  ofthe appellate authority should be restored.. All the appealsare  accordingly allowed.  The controversy, it seems to	 us,arose  by reason of the inartistic drafting of the  relevantenactment  and	in  the	 premises,  although  the  State  ofAssam,has  succeeded in the appeals filed by it, we make  noorder as to costs in its favour in any of the appeals  filedby it.	The successful appellants in the other appeals	willget   the  costs  of  their  respective	 appeals  from	 therespondents in those appeals including the State of Assam.Appeals allowed.