PETITIONER:THE BATA SHOE CO. (P) LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:D.   N. GANGULY & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/12/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1158		  1961 SCR  (3) 308 CITATOR INFO : R	    1970 SC1851	 (14) RF	    1972 SC1895	 (5) R	    1978 SC 828	 (10) RF	    1980 SC1896	 (132)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Illegal  Strike-Managerial	enquiry	 anddismissal   of	 workmen-Settlement  without   approval	  ofconciliation officer--Competence of  Reference--Management'saction	against employees-Interference by Tribunal,  if	 andwhen  justified-Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of  1947),ss. 12, 18.HEADNOTE:During the course of conciliation proceedings in respect  ofa  dispute between the appellant company and its  workmen  asettlement  was arrived at between the parties	on  February18,  1954.  Despite the settlement some of the workmen	wenton strike on February 23, 1954, but eventually it was calledoff on March 19 and 20, 1954.  On the ground that the strikewas  illegal because it took place during the currency of  asettlement, the appellant took steps to serve  charge-sheetson  the	 workmen  who had joined the  strike  and,  after  amanagerial  inquiry,  dismissed sixty of them.	 There	wereconciliation proceedings in respect of the dismissal of	 theworkmen before the Labour Commissioner and an agreement	 wasarrived at between the appellant and the union on  September2,  1954.   The	 Labour Commissioner was  apprised  of	thissettlement,  but  since	 it was found  that  the  union	 wasopposing  reinstatement of certain workmen, he	proposed  tohold  further conciliation proceedings.	 The  appellant	 wasagainst	 holding further conciliation steps and,  therefore,the   Labour  Commissioner  reported  the  matter   to	 theGovernment  under s. 12(4) of the Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947.A  reference was accordingly made and the Tribunal gave	 theaward  under  which  all the dismissed workmen	were  to  bereinstated  on	the ground that they had not been  shown  tohave  taken  part  in violence and  there  were	 extenuatingcircumstances in their case inasmuch as they were misled  tojoin  the strike in order to oust the old office bearers  ofthe  union so that others might be elected in  their  place,and  that though a much larger number of workmen  had  takenpart  in the illegal strike and the union took up the  case,only  these sixty were eventually dismissed while  the	restwere reinstated.  The appellant objected to the award on thegrounds (1) that as a settlement had been arrived at  duringthe course of conciliation proceedings on September 2, 1954,which  specifically  dealt  with the  case  of	these  sixtyworkmen,  the reference was incompetent in view of s. 18  ofthat  Act,  (2) the reference was also	incompetent  becausewhat  was  referred  was riot an industrial  dispute  but  adispute between the employer and its individual workmen, and(3)  the Tribunal's order of reinstatement was in  any	caseunjustified.309Held:.....(1) under ss. 12 and 18 of the Industrial DisputesAct, 1947, a settlement which is binding under s. 18 on	 theground that it was arrived at in the course of	conciliationproceedings  is a settlement arrived at with the  assistanceand  concurrence  of the conciliation officer,	and  that  asettlement  which is not binding under s. 18 will not  be  abar to a reference by the Government.In the present case the agreement of September 2, 1954,	 didnot  have  the	approval of the	 conciliation  officer	and,consequently,  the  reference based on 'the  report  of	 theconciliation officer under s. 12 of the Act was competent.(2)..that  the reference was not bad on the ground  that  anindividual  dispute  had been referred to the  Tribunal	 foradjudication,  because the dispute in the present  case	 wasoriginally  sponsored  by  the	union  and  related  to	 thedismissal of a much larger number of workmen.(3)..that  where the finding of the Tribunal was that  therewas  misconduct which merited dismissal under  the  StandingOrders	and  that  the managerial inquiry  was	proper,	 theTribunal was not justified in interfering with the action ofthe  management unless it found unreasonable  discriminationin  the	 matter of taking back employees, or  unfair  labourpractice or victimisation against the employees.Indian Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. and Another v. Their Workmen,[1958] S.C.R. 667, followed.I.  G.	N. and Railway Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen,  [1960]  2S.C.R. 1, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 32 and  33of 1960.Appeals	 by special leave from the Award dated February	 24,1959, of the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, Patna, in Referencenos. 10 of 1959 and 1 of 1955.M.  C.	Setalvad, Attorney-General for India,  Nooni  CoomarChakravarti and B. P. Maheshwari, for the appellant.B....C. Ghose and P. K. Chatterjee, for the respondents.1960.  December 15.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyWANCHOO, J.-These are two connected appeals by special leavein an industrial matter and relate to the dismissal of sixtyworkmen of the appellant-company.  The dispute was  referredby two references;310one relates to 31 workmen and the other to 29 workmen.	Theyhave  been  disposed of by a common award,  though,  as	 thereferences were two, there are two appeals before us.The brief facts necessary for present purposes are these: OnNovember 10, 1953, a general meeting was held by the workmenof  the	 appellant  and a no confidence	 motion	 was  passedagainst	 the  executives  of the workmen's  union  and	ShriShahabuddin  Bari  was elected as the new president  of	 theunion.	 On  February 6, 1954, the newly  elected  presidentserved	a strike notice on the management.  On February	 18,1954, a settlement was arrived at between the management andShri  Fateh Narain Singh, the general secretary of  the	 oldexecutive committees.  On February 23, 1954, the strike	 waslaunched  in accordance with the notice served by Shri	Bariand the strike continued for about a month.  The strike	 wascalled	off  on	 March 19 and 20, 1954.	  The  case  of	 theappellant  was	that  the strike  which	 began	on  February23,1954,  was an illegal strike as it took place during	 thecurrency  of  a	 settlement  arrived at	 in  the  course  ofconciliation  proceedings with the assistance of the  LabourCommissioner  who  acted as  conciliation  officer.   Conse-quently, the appellant took steps to serve charge-sheets  onthe workmen, who had joined the illegal strike, on March  4,1954.	This  was followed by the dismissal of	these  sixtyworkmen	 after	a  managerial  inquiry.	  It  is  said	thatthereafter there were conciliation proceedings which  failedand consequently the two references were made.The main findings of the tribunal are that the settlement ofFebruary  18,  1954, was a bona fide settlement	 arrived  atduring	the  course  of	 conciliation  proceedings  and	 wastherefore  binding  on	the workmen;  and  consequently	 thestrike	which began on February 23, 1954, was in  breach  ofthe terms of the settlement and was therefore illegal.	 Thetribunal  further  held that the strike was staged  in	hot-haste  and  no	reasonable  opportunity	 was  given  to	 themanagement to reply to the demands made before launching thestrike.	 It also held that the trouble arose because of	 theelection of311Shri  Bari  and	 the new office bearers.   This	 matter	 wasreferred  to the Registrar of Trade Unions and he held	thatthe  meeting at which Shri Bari and the new  office  bearerswere elected was irregular and in consequence the old officebearers	 of  the union continued to remain  validly  electedexecutives  of	the  union.   This  decision  was  given  onFebruary  22, 1954, and the strike was launched on  February23  immediately	 thereafter.   The  tribunal  was  not	surewhether	 this  decision had been communicated to  Shri	Baribefore	the strike was launched; but in any case it  was  ofthe opinion that there was no reason to stage the strike  insuch  hot-haste after the settlement of February  18,  1954.Having	thus held that the strike was illegal and there	 wasno  reason  why it should have been launched  in  such	hot-haste,	the tribunal went on to consider the case  of  thesesixty workmen who were dismissed.  It held that no charge ofviolence  was  brought home to these workmen  and  even	 thecharge-sheets  which were originally issued to	the  workmendid  not contain any charge of violence.  The tribunal	thendivided	 the sixty workmen into three batches of 47, 11	 and2.  In	the case of 47 workmen, it held that  they  must  beassumed	 to  have  been served with  charge-sheets  as	theyrefused to accept them and that proper inquiry was held intothe  charges,  though in their absence.	 In the case  of  11workmen,  it was of opinion that charge sheets had not	beenserved	on  them  and therefore any inquiry  held  in  theirabsence	 was  of no avail.  In the case of two	workmen,  itheld  that no attempt was made to serve any charge-sheet  onthem.	Further,  it set aside the order of  dismissal	withrespect	 to 13 of the workmen on the ground that  they	wereeither	not served with any charge-sheet or no	charge-sheetwas issued to them; as for the remaining 47, though it foundthat  charge-sheets  had been issued to them  and  they	 hadrefused	 to accept them and proper inquiry had been held  intheir  case,  it  set aside the order of  dismissal  on	 theground	that they had not been shown to have taken  part  inviolence  and there were extenuating circumstances in  theircase  inasmuch	as they were misled to join  the  strike  inorder to oust the old office312bearers	 of  the union so that others might  be	 elected  intheir  place.	It further pointed out that  though  a	muchlarger	number	of  workmen had taken part  in	the  illegalstrike	and the union took up their case, only	these  sixtywere  eventually dismissed while the rest  were	 reinstated.It  was	 of  the  view that there  was	no  reason  for	 theappellant to make any distinction between these workmen	 andthe  others  who  were	reinstated.   It  therefore  orderedreinstatement  of these 47 workmen also.  Finally,  it	heldthat the workmen were sufficiently penalised, they being outof employment from March 1954 to February 1959 when it	madethe award and that there was no reason in the  circumstancesto  maintain  their dismissal.	It awarded 50% of  the	backbasic  wages to the two workmen in whose case  charge-sheetswere not even issued and 25 per cent of the back basic wagesto the 11 workmen who were not served with charge-sheets; noback  wages were allowed to the forty-seven workmen who	 hadrefused to accept the charge-sheets sent to them.Three  points  have been raised on behalf of  the  appellantbefore	us; namely, (i) as a settlement had been arrived  atduring	the course of conciliation proceedings on  September2,  1954,  which specifically dealt with the case  of  thesesixty  workmen,	 the references were incompetent;  (ii)	 thereferences  were incompetent because what was  referred	 wasnot an industrial dispute but a dispute between the employerand  its individual workman; and (iii) the tribunal's  orderof reinstatement was in any case unjustified.Re,. (i).It  appears  that after the dismissal of a large  number  ofworkmen consequent on the illegal strike that took place  onFebruary  23,  1954,  there  were  conciliation	 proceedingsbefore the Labour Commissioner, Bihar, with respect to thesedismissals   and   other   matters.    These	conciliationproceedings  appear  to have begun some time before  May  1,1954,  for we find that on that day the Labour	Commissionerwrote to the appellant that its objection that	conciliationproceedings  were  illegal  and	 without  jurisdiction	 wasbaseless.  It seems313that  efforts at conciliation continued right up to the	 endof  August  1954, for we find another letter of	 August	 31,1954,  from the Labour Commissioner to the appellant  sayingthat  he  had heard that mutual negotiations were  going  onbetween the appellant and its workmen for the settlement  oftheir  dispute	and  September 2 had  been  fixed  for	thatpurpose.   The Labour Commissioner therefore gave notice  tothe appellant that he would hold conciliation proceedings onSeptember  3  at 3 p.m. in his office in case  the  disputeswere  not mutually settled before that date.  It seems	thatan  agreement was arrived at between the appellant  and	 theunion on September 2. In this agreement it was Doted that 76dismissed workmen had already been employed; it was  furtherprovided that 110 workmen would also be employed in the samemanner	as  the seventy-six.  Further 31  dismissed  workmenwere  to  remain dismissed and would not be  considered	 forfurther	 employment  or	 for any  other	 benefit.  30  otherdismissed workmen would for the time being remain  dismissedand  it would be decided later on between the union and	 theappellant  whether their dismissal should be confirmed	likethose of 31 mentioned above or whether they should be  giventhe  option  to wait for employment as	and  when  vacanciesarose  or  should  be  treated as retired  on  the  date  ofdismissal in order to enable them to receive the benefits ofgratuity and refund of provident fund.	It may be added thatthe present references are with respect to sixty workmen outof  these sixty-one.  It seems that the Labour	Commissionerwas  apprised of this settlement.  Consequently he wrote  onSeptember  3, 1954, to the appellant that  the	conciliationproceedings proposed to be held on that date were cancelled.The Labour Commissioner further pointed out that the unionwas opposing reinstatement of certain workmen; he  thereforeproposed  to  hold further conciliation proceedings  in	 thecase of such workmen on September 6, 1954, at 3 p.m.  beforemaking	his  final  recommendations to	government  in	thismatter.	 The appellant protested to the Labour Commissioner40314against the holding of any further conciliation	 proceedingsafter  the agreement of September 2 and apparently  did	 notattend	the meeting fixed for September 6.  Nothing  furthertherefore  seems  to have taken place  in  the	conciliationproceedings.   Presumably the Labour Commissioner must	havereported thereafter to the government under s. 12(4) of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, No. XIV of 1947 (hereinafter calledthe   Act).   Then  followed  the  two	references  by	 thegovernment;  the  first on October 8, 1954, relating  to  31workmen	 and the other on January 15, 1955, relating  to  29workmen.On these facts the contention on behalf of the appellant  isthat   the  references	were  incompetent  because  of	 theagreement  made	 on  September 2, 1954.	  Reliance  in	thisconnection  is placed on ss. 18 and 19 of the Act,  as	theywere  at  the  relevant	 time.	 See.  18  provided  that  asettlement   arrived  at  in  the  course  of	conciliationproceedings   would  be	 binding  on  all  parties  to	 theindustrial  dispute and others indicated therein and  s.  19provided that such settlement would come into force on	suchdate  as was agreed upon between the parties and if no	datewas agreed upon then on the date on which the memorandum  ofthe  settlement was signed by the parties.  Such  settlementwould  be binding for such period as was agreed upon by	 theparties and if no such period was agreed upon, for a  periodof  six	 months and would continue to be  binding  upon	 theparties	 thereafter until the expiry of two months from	 thedate  on  which	 a  notice  in	writing	 to  terminate	 thesettlement  was	 given by one of the parties  to  the  otherparty  or  parties  to the settlement.	 The  contention  onbehalf	of the appellant is that the agreement of  September2,  1954,  arrived  at during  the  course  of	conciliationproceedings between the appellant and the union was  bindingon  all	 workmen  and  therefore it  was  not  open  to	 thegovernment to make these references within six months of it.The  question thus posed raises the question as to  what  ismeant	by  the	 words	"in  the  course   of	conciliationproceedings  " appearing in s. 18 of the Act.  One thing  isclear that these words refer to the duration315when the conciliation proceedings are pending and it may  beaccepted  that the conciliation proceedings with respect  tothese  dismissals, which began sometime before May 1,  1954,were certainly pending upto September 6, 1954, and may be  alittle later, as is clear from the two letters of the LabourCommissioner.	But do these words mean that  any  agreementarrived	 at between the parties during this period would  bebinding	 under	s. 18 of the Act ? Or do they  mean  that  asettlement   arrived  at  in  the  course  of	conciliationproceedings postulates that that settlement should have beenarrived	 at between the parties with the concurrence of	 theconciliation  officer?	 As we read this provision  we	feelthat  the  legislature	when it made  a	 settlement  reachedduring	the course of conciliation proceedings	binding	 notonly  on  the parties thereto but also on  all	present	 andfuture workmen intended that such settlement was arrived  atwith  the  assistance of the conciliation  officer  and	 wasconsidered  by	him to be reasonable and therefore  had	 hisconcurrence.   Sec. 12 of the Act prescribes duties  of	 theconciliation  officer  and provides  that  the	conciliationofficer	 shall for the purpose of bringing about  settlementof the dispute without delay investigate the dispute and allmatters	 affecting  the	 merits	 and  the  right  settlementthereof	 and may do all such things as he may think fit	 forthe  purpose of inducing the parties to come to a  fair	 andamicable  settlement of the dispute: (vide s. 12(2) ).	Thencomes  s.  12(3), which provides, "If a	 settlement  of	 thedispute or of any of the matters in dispute is arrived at inthe course of the conciliation proceedings the	conciliationofficer	 shall	send  a report thereof	to  the	 appropriateGovernment  together  with a memorandum	 of  the  settlementsigned by the parties to the dispute".Reading these two provisions along with s. 18 of the Act, itseems  to us clear beyond doubt that a settlement  which  ismade binding under s. 18 on the ground that it is arrived atin  the course of conciliation proceedings is  a  settlementarrived	 at  with  the assistance  and	concurrence  of	 theconciliation officer, for it is the duty of the conciliationofficer to promote316a right settlement and to do everything he can to induce theparties	 to  come to a fair and amicable settlement  of	 thedispute.   It is only such a settlement which is arrived  atwhile  conciliation  proceedings  are pending  that  can  bebinding under s. 18.  In the present case it is obvious thatthe Labour Commissioner took no steps to promote the  actualagreement which was arrived at between the appellant and theunion on September 2. The letter of August 31 made it  clearthat  the  Labour Commissioner would take  action  under  s.12(2)  on September 3 if no mutual agreement was arrived  atbetween the appellant and the union.  It seems that a mutualagreement was arrived at between the appellant and the unionwithout the assistance of the Labour Commissioner and it didnot  receive  his concurrence even later;  on  the  contraryevidence shows that the Labour Commissioner did not  approveof  the	 settlement which excluded the	reinstatement  of  alarge group of workmen and so he did not act under s. 12(3).In  the circumstances such a mutual agreement could  not  becalled a settlement arrived at in the course of conciliationproceedings  even  though  it may be accepted  that  it	 wasarrived	 at  a	time  when  conciliation  proceedings	werepending.  A settlement which can be said to be arrived at inthe  course  of conciliation proceedings is not only  to  bearrived at during the time the conciliation proceedings	 arepending but also to be arrived at with the assistance of theconciliation officer and his concurrence; such a  settlementwould  be  reported to the appropriate government  under  s.12(3).	 In the present case the agreement of  September  2,1954 was not arrived at with the assistance and	 concurrenceof   the   conciliation	  officer,   namely,   the    LabourCommissioner,  which  will  be	clear  from  his  letter  ofSeptember  3,  1954.   In  the circumstances  it  is  not  asettlement  which  is  binding under s. 18 of  the  Act	 andtherefore  will not bar a reference by the  Government	withrespect to these sixty workmen.Re (ii).The next point that is urged is that it is not an industrialdispute but a dispute between the employer317and its-individual workmen, even though their number may  belarge  and therefore the Government had no  jurisdiction  tomake  the  references.	We are of opinion that there  is  noforce  in  this	 contention.  We have already  set  out	 thehistory of the conciliation proceedings in this case.  It isobvious	 from  the letter of the Labour	 Commissioner  datedSeptember  3, 1954, that he must have made a report  to	 theGovernment under s. 12(4) and it must be on that report thatthese  references  must have been made under s.	 12(5)	readwith  s.  10(1).  It is not in dispute that  originally	 thecase  of  dismissal of a much larger number of	workmen	 wasunder consideration during the conciliation proceedings	 buton  September  2,1954,	a mutual agreement  was	 arrived  atbetween	 the  appellant	 and the union,	 which	in  a  senseexcluded  the  case  of these  sixty  workmen.	 The  LabourCommissioner apparently was not prepared to concur with thisaction	of  the	 parties  as  appears  from  his  letter  ofSeptember  3  and must therefore have made a report  to	 theGovernment  under s. 12(4) which was followed by  referencesunder s. 10. In the circumstances we fail to understand	 howwhat began as an industrial dispute and was sponsored by theunion,	related to the dismissal of a much larger number  ofworkmen	 (including  these  sixty) and as  such	 became	 thesubject-matter	of conciliation proceedings under  s.  12(1)would  turn  into  an individual dispute  because  a  mutualagreement was arrived at between the appellant and the unionwith  which  the  Labour  Commissioner	was  not  in  entireagreement  and in consequence of which he apparently made  areport	to the Government under s. 12(4) which was  followedby   the   two	references  under  s.	10(1).	  In   thesecircumstances  we are satisfied that the references are	 notbad  on	 the  ground that an  individual  dispute  had	beenreferred to the tribunal for adjudication.Re (iii)We  now come to the merits of the case.	 We shall deal	withthe sixty workmen in three batches in the same manner as thetribunal  did.	We shall first take the case of 47  workmen.In  the case of these workmen, the tribunal held  that	theywere guilty of318taking	part  in  an illegal strike and that  there  was  noreason for staging such an illegal strike in hot haste.	  Italso  held  that  they were sent  charge-sheets	 which	theyrefused to take.  The Standing Orders provide that a workmanwho  refuses  to  accept  a charge-sheet  or  to  submit  anexplanation on being charged with an offence will be  deemedto  have admitted the charge against him.  It also  providesthat  a	 workman  who refuses to  accept  any  communicationaddressed   to	him  by	 the  company  will  be	 liable	  todisciplinary action for insubordination.  The tribunal	alsoheld that in the case of these workmen, a proper inquiry washeld,  though  in the circumstances in	their  absence.	  Itfurther held that such misconduct as merited dismissal underthe  Standing Orders was committed by these 47 workmen.	  Onthese  findings	 we should have thought	 that  the  tribunalwould  not have interfered with the order of dismissal,	 forthe  case  would  be  clearly  covered	by  the	  principlesgoverning the limits of the tribunal's power of interferencewith  the  findings of the managerial inquiry laid  down  bythis Court in Indian Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. and another  v.Their  Workmen	(1).  Learned counsel  for  the	 respondent-workmen	  in  this  connection	relies	on  Indian   GeneralNavigation  and Railway Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen  (2).	  Inthat case it was laid down that-	      "to  determine the question of  punishment,  a	      clear distinction has to be made between those	      workmen  who not only joined in such a  strike	      but  also took part in obstructing  the  loyal	      workmen  from carrying on their work, or	took	      part  in violent demonstrations, or  acted  in	      defiance of law and order, on the one hand and	      those  workmen  who were more or	less  silent	      participators  in such a strike on  the  other	      hand."These observations have however to be read in the context ofthat case, which was (i) that it was not shown in that	casethat an employee merely taking part in an illegal strike wasliable	to  be punished with dismissal	under  the  StandingOrders and (ii) that there was no(1) [1958] S.C.R. 667.(2) [1960] 2 S.C.R.  1.319proper	managerial  inquiry.   In  these  circumstances	 thequantum	 of punishment was also within the  jurisdiction  ofthe industrial tribunal.  In the present case, however,	 thefinding	 of the tribunal is that there was misconduct  whichmerited	 dismissal  under the Standing Orders and  that	 themanagerial inquiry was proper.	In these circumstances thoseobservations  torn from their context cannot be	 applied  tothe  facts  of	this case.  The reasoning  of  the  tribunaltherefore  that	 as these 47 workmen had not taken  part  inviolence the appellant was not justified in dismissing	themcannot	be  accepted on the facts of this case.	  The  otherreason given by the tribunal for setting aside the dismissalis that the appellant had taken back a large number of otheremployees  who had taken similar part in the illegal  strikeand  had  absented  themselves and there was  no  reason  todiscriminate  between those employees and these 47  workmen.It  is clear from the award of the tribunal that no  discri-mination was made when taking back the workmen on the groundthat these workmen supported Shri Bari, for the award  showsthat a number of other workmen who supported Shri Bari	weretaken  back.   Reliance	 in this  connection  is  placed  onMessrs.	  Burn and Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen (1), where,  itwas observed when dealing with the workmen involved in	thatcase  that it could not be said that mere  participation  inthe illegal strike would justify the suspension or dismissalparticularly when no clear distinction could be made betweenthose  persons and the very large number of workmen who	 hadbeen taken back into service although they had	participatedin the strike.	There is no doubt that if an employer  makesan unreasonable discrimination in the matter of taking	backemployees  there may in certain circumstances be reason	 forthe industrial tribunal to interfere; but the  circumstancesof  each  case have to be examined before the  tribunal	 caninterfere with the order of the employer in a properly	heldmanagerial inquiry on the ground of discrimination.  In Burn&  Co.'s case (1) there was apparently no reason  whatsoeverfor(1)  A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 529.320making	the discrimination.  In the present  case,  however,the  circumstances are different.  It is not  the  appellantwhich  has made the discrimination; in the present  case  sofar  as the appellant is concerned it was prepared  to	takeback  even  those who supported Shri Bari and  did  actuallytake  back a large number of such workmen.  The	 genesis  ofthe  trouble  in this case was a dispute  within  the  unionitself which led to the illegal strike, the history of whichwe have already given.	The mutual agreement of September 2,1954, shows that the union which represented the workmen wasnot  agreeable that sixty-one workmen should be	 taken	backand  these forty-seven workmen are out of  these  sixty-one.The  appellant	in  this case was therefore  placed  in	 theposition that it had to choose between the large majority ofworkmen and sixty-one workmen whom the union did not want tobe  taken  back.   It was in these  circumstances  that	 theappellant  did not take back those sixty-one workmen out  ofwhom  are these forty-seven.  The charge  of  discriminationtherefore  cannot  be  properly	 laid at  the  door  of	 theappellant in this case and if there is anybody to blame	 forit  it	is  the	 union.	 In  these  circumstances  when	 themanagerial inquiry was held to be proper and the  misconductcommitted is such as to deserve dismissal under the StandingOrders,	 there was no reason for the tribunal  to  interferewith  the order of dismissal passed by the appellant in	 thecase   of  these  forty-seven  workmen.	  It  may  be	thatparticipation  in an illegal strike may not necessarily	 andin  every  case	 be punished with dismissal;  but  where  aninquiry has been properly held and the employer has  imposedthe  punishment	 of dismissal on the employee who  has	beenguilty of the misconduct of joining the illegal strike,	 thetribunal should not interfere unless it finds unfair  labourpractice or victimisation against the employee.Then  we come to the case of two workmen to whom no  charge-sheets were given at all.  They are Jagdish Lal	 (respondent31) and L. Choudhary (respondent 60).  It is not in  disputethat  no  charge-sheets were issued to these  workmen.	 Theappellant321however	 contends that under the Standing Orders it was	 notnecessary  to issue any charge-sheet to them.  The  StandingOrders provide that-	      "any  workman  charged with an  offence  under	      these Orders, except in cases of lateness	 and	      absenteeism,  shall  receive a  copy  of	such	      charge  but  in  all cases will  be  given  an	      opportunity of offering his explanation before	      any decision is arrived at."It  is said that the charge against these two	workmen	 wasonly   for  absenting  themselves;  it	was  not   thereforenecessary  to frame any charge-sheet against them.  This  isnot  quite  correct so far as Jagdish La]. in  concerned  aswill  appear from the letter of dismissal sent to  him;	 butassuming  it to be so, Standing Orders provide	that  thoughthe  charge-sheet  may not be given no action can  be  takenagainst	 a workman for any misconduct unless he is given  anopportunity of offering his explanation before any  decisionis  arrived  at.  There is no proof in this  case  that	 anyopportunity was given to these two workmen of offering theirexplanation before the decision of dismissal was arrived  atin  their  case.   In these  circumstances  even  though  nocharge-sheet might have been necessary in the case of  thesetwo workmen their dismissal was against the provision of theStanding  Orders,  for no explanation was  taken  from	thembefore arriving at the decision to dismiss them.  The  orderof  the tribunal with respect to these two workmen  must  beupheld.This brings us to the case of eleven workmen who are:  Mohd.Mansoor	 (respondent  6),  Ram	Kuber  Das  (respondent	 9),Ramasis (respondent 15), Mohd.	Zafir (respondent 19), Mohd.Islam	(respondent  20),  Mohd.   Zafir  (respondent	22),Rajeshwar  Prasad (respondent 26), Chirkut (respondent	27),Lal Das (respondent 43), Inderdip (respondent 47) and  Mohd.Nazir (respondent 58).	In their case the tribunal held thatthough charge-sheets were issued to them, they could not  beserved	and  the inquiry took place  without  their  knowinganything  about the charges or the date of the inquiry.	  Inthose circumstances the tribunal held41322that the inquiry was no inquiry and therefore ordered  theirreinstatement.	 It is contended on behalf of the  appellantthat the case of these eleven workmen is similar to the caseof forty-seven who refused to take the charge-sheets sent tothem  by registered post.  In any case it is urged that	 thecharge-sheets were notified on the notice board and  noticeswere  issued  in the newspapers and that  should  be  deemedsufficient  service of the charge-sheets on them.   In	thisconnection reliance was placed on Mckenzie & Co. Ltd. v. ItsWorkmen(1).  In that case the Standing Orders provided	thatnotice	would  be served on a workman by  communicating	 thesame orally to the workman concerned and/or by affixing	 thesame on the company's notice-board and the company had actedin  conformity	with  the Standing Orders  by  affixing	 thenotices on its notice-board.  It was found in that case thatthe   company	first  sent  notices  by   registered	postacknowledgement due to the workmen concerned.  When some  ofthe  notices  came back unserved the company  wrote  to	 thesecretary  of  the  union asking for the  addresses  of	 theworkmen	 but the secretary gave no reply to the letter.	  Itwas then that the company affixed the notices on the notice-board  both  inside  and outside the  mill-gate.   In  thosecircumstances  it was held that the company did all that  itcould under the Standing Orders to serve the workmen and theaffixing  of the notices on the notice-board was  sufficientservice.The  facts in the present case however are  different.	 Allthat the Standing Orders provide is that the workmen chargedwith an offence shall receive a copy of such charge.  It  isalso  provided	that  a workman who refuses  to	 accept	 thecharge-sheet  shall  be deemed to have admitted	 the  chargemade  against  him.  There is no provision in  the  StandingOrders	for affixing such charge-sheets on the	notice-boardof the company.	 The charge-sheets in this case were sent tothe eleven workmen by registered post and returned unserved,because they were not found in their villages.	On the	sameday on which the charge-sheets were sent by registered	postit appears that notices were(1)  [1959] SUPPl.  1 S.C.R. 222.323issued	in certain newspapers to the effect that a group  ofworkmen	 under	a  common understanding had  engaged  in  anillegal	 strike	 from February 23, 1954, and that  all	suchworkmen	 were liable to strong disciplinary action and	thatin  consequence	 they had been charged	under  the  StandingOrders	and Rules of the company and such charge-sheets	 hadbeen   sent   to  them	individually  by   registered	postacknowledgement	 due  and  had also been  displayed  on	 thenotice-boards  inside and outside the factory gate and	theywere  required to submit the explanations by March 9,  1954.These notices did not contain the names of the work. men  towhom charge-sheets were sent and in whose case charge-sheetswere  displayed on the notice boards.  In the  circumstancesit  can hardly be said that these eleven workmen would	havenotice that they were among those to whom charge-sheets	 hadbeen sent or about whom charge-sheets had been displayed  onthe  notice-boards.  The proper course in our view was	whenthe  registered	 notices came back unserved in the  case  ofthese  eleven workmen to publish notices in their  names  insome  newspaper	 in  the  regional  language  with  a	widecirculation  in Bihar along with the charges framed  againstthem.  It would have been a different matter if the StandingOrders	had  provided for service of  charge-sheets  throughtheir display on the notice-boards of the appellant.  In theabsence	 of  such provision, the proper course to  take	 waswhat  we  have	mentioned above.  If that  course  had	beentaken,	the  appellant would have been justified  in  sayingthat  it did all that it could to serve the workmen; but  asthat  was  not done, we agree with the tribunal	 that  theseeleven workmen had no notice of the charges against them andthe  date by which they had to submit their explanations  aswell  as  the date of inquiry.	In these  circumstances	 theorder  of the tribunal with respect to these eleven  workmenmust also be upheld.We  therefore allow the appeal so far as the first group  offorty-seven workmen are concerned and set aside the order ofthe  tribunal reinstating them.	 We dismiss the	 appeals  sofar as the remaining thirteen324are  concerned,	 namely,  Jagdish Lal  (respondent  31),  L.Choudhary  (respondent 60), Mohd.  Mansoor  (respondent	 6),Ram Kuber Das (respondent 9), Ramasis (respondent 15), Mohd.Zafir  (respondent 19), Mohd.  Islam (respondent 20),  Mohd.Zafir  (respondent  22), Rajeshwar Prasad  (respondent	26),Chirkut	 (respondent 27), Lal Das (respondent 43),  Inderdip(respondent 47) and Mohd.  Nazir (respondent 58) and confirmthe  order  of the tribunal with respect to  them.   In	 thecircumstances the parties will bear their own costs of	thisCourt.				  Appeal partly allowed.			 ________________