PETITIONER:GODAVARI SUGAR MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:KEPARGAON TALUKA SAKHAR KAMGARSABHA, SAKARWADIDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/12/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1961 AIR 1016		  1961 SCR  (3) 342ACT:Industrial  Dispute-System of contract labour-Abolitions  byIndustrial  Court--Jurisdiction-If violative  of  employer'sfundamental  right  to carry on	 business-Bombay  IndustrialRelations Act, 1947(11 of 1947), ss. 3(18), 42(2), 73A, Item(2) SCh.  11, Item (6)	 Sch.	III--Constitution of  India,Art. 19(1)(g).HEADNOTE:A dispute having arisen between the appellant-employer andits  workmen regarding the employment of contract labour  inthe  appellant's mills, the union representing	the  workmenwhich  is the respondent in the present case  after  servingnotice	on  the	 appellant  under s.  42(2)  of	 the  BombayIndustrial  Relations Act made reference to  the  IndustrialCourt under S. 73A of the Act demanding the abolition of thesystem	of employing contractors' labour and  the  permanentincrement  of employees in the respective departments.	 Thecontention  of	the  appellant, inter  alia,  was  that	 theIndustrial  Court had no jurisdiction to decide the  disputewhich  was  within the exclusive jurisdiction  of  a  LabourCourt  under item (6) of Sch.  III of the Act, and that	 anyaward  directing  the  abolition of  contract  labour  wouldcontravene  the	 appellant's fundamental right to  carry  onbusiness  under	 Art.  19(1)(g) of  the	 Constitution.	 TheIndustrial  Court  decided that the Industrial	Court  wouldhave  jurisdiction as the matter was covered by item (2)  ofSch.  11 of the Act and that there was no  contravention  ofthe  fundamental  rights of the appellants.  On	 appeal	 theLabour	Appellate Tribunal, held, that the Industrial  Courthad  jurisdiction to decide the matter although it  was	 notcovered	 by item (2) of Sch. 11 of the Act.  As regards	 thequestion  of contravention of the fundamental right it	heldthat  the  question  whether  the  restriction	imposed	 wasreasonable  depended  upon the facts of each  case  and	 thematter	was  outside  the  powers  of  a  court	 of  appeal.Eventually it set aside the entire award on the merits.	  Onappeal 'by the appellant by special leave,Held,  that  the Industrial Court had jurisdiction  to	dealwith the matter.Whatever might be the ambit of the word "employment" used initem  (6) of Sch.  III, if a matter was covered by Sch.	  11it  could only be referred to the Industrial Court under  s.73A.   A  question  relating to the  abolition	of  contractlabour	inevitably  raised  a dispute  relating	 to  matterscontained in items (2), (9) and (10)	of Sch.	 11, namely,permanent increase in the number of343persons	 employed, the employees' wages, hours of  work	 andrest intervals and could, therefore, be referred only to  anIndustrial Court.The  power given to the Industrial Court which was a  quasi-judicial  tribunal to decide whether contract labour  shouldbe    abolished	 or not would  not  make  the  definition of"industrial  " matter" in so far as it referred to the	modeof   employment	 an  S.	 unreasonable  restriction  on	 thefundamental right of the employer to carry on his trade	 andas such there was no contravention of his fundamental  rightby  providing  in  S.  3(18)  that  an	"industrial  matter"included also the mode of employment of the employees.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 352 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly  27, 1956, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal  of  India,Bombay, in Appeal (Bom.) No. 72 of 1956.G....S. Pathak, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and RameshwarNath, for the appellant.D....S.	 Nargoulkar and K. R. Choudhuri, for the  respondentNo. 1.B. P. Maheshwari, for the Interveners.1960.  December 16.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyWANCHOO,  J.-This  is  an  appeal by  special  leave  in  anindustrial  matter.   The appellant owns  two  sugar  mills.There  was a dispute between the appellant and	its  workmenwith respect to the employment of contract labour in the twomills.	Consequently, a notice of change under S. 42 (2)  ofthe  Bombay  Industrial	 Relations  Act,  No.  XI  of  1947,(hereinafter  called the Act) was given to the appellant  bythe union re. presenting the workmen.  Thereafter the union,which  is  the respondent in the present  appeal,  made	 tworeferences to the industrial court, one with respect to eachmill,  under s. 73A of the Act, and the main demand  in	 thereferences  was that "the system of  employing	contractors'labour should be abolished and the strength of the employeesof   the  respective  departments  should   be	 permanentlyincreased sufficiently344and accordingly".  The appellant raised two main contentionsbefore the industrial court, namely, (i) that the industrialcourt  had  no	jurisdiction to decide the  dispute  as	 thematter	was  covered by item (6) of Sch.   III	of  the Act,which  is  within  the exclusive jurisdiction  of  a  labourcourt;	and  (ii)  that any  award  directing  abolition  ofcontract  labour would contravene the fundamental  right  ofthe  appellant to carry on business under Art.	19(1)(g)  ofthe Constitution.The  industrial	 court decided both the points	against	 theappellant; on the question of jurisdiction it held that	 thematter	was  covered by item (2) of Sch. 11 of the  Act	 andtherefore the industrial court would have jurisdiction,	 andon the second point it held that there was no  contraventionof  the fundamental right conferred on the  appellant  underArt.  19(1)(g).	 It may be mentioned that the  second  pointarose  on the stand taken by the appellant that the  workmenof  the contractors were not the workmen of  the  appellant.The industrial court then dealt with the merits of the	caseand  passed  certain orders, with which we are	however	 notconcerned in the present appeal.It  may	 be mentioned that there were cases  relating  to  anumber of other sugar mills raising the same points, whichwere  decided at the same time by the industrial court.	  Inconsequence,  there were a number of appeals to	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal by the mills and one by one of the unions(though	 not  by the respondent-union).	 All  these  appealswere  heard together by the appellate tribunal,	 where	alsothe  same  two points relating to jurisdiction	and  contra-vention of the fundamental right guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g)were raised.  The Appellate Tribunal did not agree with	 theindustrial  court that the references were covered  by	item(2) of Sch. 11 to the Act.  It, however, held that the	word"employment"  in item (6) of Sch.  III to the Act had to  begiven  a restricted meaning.  It pointed out that the  threeSchedules did not exhaust the comprehensive provisions of s.42(2)  and  the	 subject-matter	 of  dispute,  namely,	 theabolition of contract labour was a question of far  reachingand important change which could not have345been intended to be dealt with in a summary way by a  labourcourt,	which  is  the lowest in  the  hierarchy  of  courtsestablished  under  the	 Act.  It therefore  held  that	 theindustrial court had jurisdiction to decide the matter.	  Onthe question of contravention of the, fundamental right, theappellate  tribunal took the view that the question  whetherthe  restriction  imposed was reasonable depended  upon	 thefacts  of each case and therefore was a matter	outside	 itspower as a court of appeal It then considered the merits  ofthe  matter and came to the conclusion that the approach  ofthe  industrial court to the questions raised before it	 wasnot  correct and therefore it found it difficult to  supportthe  award.  Eventually it set aside the award and  remandedthe   matter  for  early  hearing  in  the  light   of	 theobservations  made by it.  Further, it decided that  in	 theinterest  of justice the entire award should be	 set  aside,even  though there was no appeal before it by the unions  inmost  of the cases.  The appellant then came to	 this  Courtand  was granted special leave; and that is how	 the  matterhas come up before us.Mr.  Pathak on behalf of the appellant has raised  the	sametwo points before us.  We shall first deal with the questionof  jurisdiction.  Reliance in this connection is placed  onitem (6) of Sch.  III of the Act, which is in these terms:-"Employment including-(i)  reinstatement and recruitment;(ii) unemployment  of  persons previously  employed  in	 theindustry concerned."It is not in dispute that matters contained in Sch.  III arewithin the jurisdiction of a labour court and an  industrialcourt  has  no	jurisdiction  to  decide  any  matter  in  areference  under  s.  73A of the Act  which  is	 within	 thejurisdiction  of a labour court.  Mr. Pathak  contends	thatitem (6) of Sch.  III speaks of "employment" and includes init  two matters which might otherwise not have been  thoughtto  be	included  in  it.   Therefore,	according  to	him,employment as used in item (6) is wider than the two mattersincluded in it44346and the question whether contract labour should be  employedor not would be a matter of employment within the meaning ofthat  word  in	item (6) of Sch. 111.  We do  not  think  itnecessary for purposes of this appeal to consider what wouldbe the ambit of employment as used in item (6) of Sch.	111.The  scheme  of the Act shows that under ss. 71 and  72	 thejurisdiction  of a labour court and an industrial  court  isconcurrent  with  respect  to any matters  which  the  StateGovernment  may deem fit to refer to them; but under s.	 73Areference by a registered union which is a representative ofemployees  and which is also an approved union, can only  bemade to an industrial court, subject to the proviso that  nosuch  dispute can be referred to an industrial	court  whereunder  the  provisions	of  the Act it	is  required  to  bereferred  to the labour court for its decision.	 Sec. 78  ofthe  Act  provides  for jurisdiction of	 labour	 courts	 andmatters specified in Sch.  11 are not within their  ordinaryjurisdiction.  Therefore, when a registered union wishes  torefer  any matter which is contained in Sch.  11 of the	 Actsuch  reference	 can be made by it only	 to  the  industrialcourt.	 It follows in consequence that whatever may be	 theambit  of  the word "employment" used in item  (6)  of	Sch.III,  if  any matter is covered by Sch. 11 it  can  only  bereferred  to  the industrial court under s.  73A.   Now	 thequestion whether contract labour should be abolished (on theassumption that contract labour is not in the employ of	 themills)	immediately raises questions relating  to  permanentincrease  in  the number of persons  employed,	their  wagesincluding the period and mode of payment, hours of work	 andrest  intervals, which are items (2), (9) and (10)  of	Sch.11.  Therefore, a question relating to abolition of contractlabour	is  so inextricably mixed up with  the	question  ofpermanent increase in the number of persons employed,  theirwages,	hours  of work and rest intervals that	any  disputerelating to contract labour would inevitably raise questionscovered	 by  Sch.  11.	Therefore,  a  dispute	relating  tocontract  labour if it is to be referred under s. 73A  by  aregistered union can only be referred to an industrial courtas it immediately347raises matters contained in items (2), (9) and (10) of	Sch.11.   Mr.  Pathak  urges however that  matters	relating  topermanent increase in the number of persons employed due  tothe abolition of contract labour, their wages, hours of workand  rest intervals were not really disputed at all  by	 theappellant.  It appears that in the written-statements of theappellant, these points were not raised; but the decision ofthe  appellate	tribunal shows that one of  the	 contentionsraised	before	it by the sugar-mills was that	the  workmenconcerned were not employees of the sugar mills.  Therefore,as  soon  as  this  contention is raised  a  dispute  as  topermanent increase in the number of persons employed,  theirwages,	hours of work and rest intervals  would	 immediatelyarise.	 It must therefore be held that a question  relatingto  the	 abolition of contract labour  inevitably  raises  adispute with respect to these three items contained in	Sch.11.   In  the  circumstances  we are  of  opinion  that	 theindustrial  court had jurisdiction to deal with the  matter.In particular, we may point out that in their petitions	 theunions had raised at least the question as to the  permanentincrease  in the number of persons employed and	 that  wouldimmediately  bring in item (2) of Sch.	11. It is true	thatthe question of permanent increase in the number of  personsemployed,  their  wages, hours of work	and  rest  intervalswould only arise if contract labour is to be abolished;	 butin  our opinion these are matters so inextricably  mixed  upwith  the question relating to abolition of contract  labourthat they must be held to be in dispute as soon as the	dis-pute  is  raised  about the abolition  of  contract  labour,(assuming always that the employer does not accept  contractlabour	as part of its labour force).  The contention  aboutjurisdiction must therefore be rejected.This  brings  us  to the second	 contention  raised  by	 Mr.Pathak.	  He bases his argument in this behalf on s.  3(18),which defines an " industrial matter " as meaning any matterrelating   to  employment,  work,  wages,  hours  of   work,privileges,  rights or duties of employers or employees,  orthe mode, terms and348conditions  of	employment.   Mr.  Pathak  urges  that	 thedefinition   of	 "  industrial	matter	"  contravenes	 thefundamental  right guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(g),  when  itprovides that the mode of employment is also included withinit.   Reference	 is also made to s. 3(17) which	 defines  an"industrial  dispute" as any dispute or difference which  isconnected with any industrial matter.  Mr. Pathak  thereforeurges	that  reading  the  two	 definitions  together	 theindustrial court is given the power to decide disputes as tothe mode of employment and that contravenes the	 fundamentalright  guaranteed  under Art. 19(1)(g), for  it	 enables  anindustrial court to adjudicate on the mode of employment andthus  interfere with the right of the employer to  carry  onhis  trade as he likes subject to  reasonable  restrictions.Now  assuming that the mode of employment used in  s.  3(18)includes such questions as abolition of contract labour, thequestion would still be whether a provision which enables anindustrial court to adjudicate on the question whether	con-tract  labour  should  or  should not  be  abolished  is  anunreasonable restriction on the employer's right to carry onhis  trade.  We cannot see how the fact that power is  givento the industrial court, which is a quasi-judicial  tribunalto decide whether contract labour should be abolished or notwould  make the definition of "industrial matter" in so	 faras  it	refers to the mode of  employment,  an	unreasonablerestriction  on	 the fundamental, right of the	employer  tocarry  on  trade.  The matter being entrusted  to  a  quasi-judicial tribunal would be decided after giving both partiesfull   opportunity  of	presenting  their  case	 and   afterconsidering  whether  in the circumstances of  a  particularcase  the  restriction	on  the	 mode  of  employment  is  areasonable restriction or not.	The tribunal would always gointo the reasonableness of the matter and if it comes to theconclusion that the mode of employment desired by labour  isnot  reasonable	 it will not allow it; it is  only  when  itcomes to the conclusion that the mode of employment  desiredby labour in a particular case is a reasonable restriction349that  it will insist on that particular mode  of  employmentbeing used.  Take, for example, the case of contract  labouritself.	  The  tribunal will have to go into the  facts	 ofeach case.  If it comes to the conclusion that on the  factsthe  employment	 of contract labour is reasonable  and	thusdoing  away with it would be an unreasonable restriction  onthe right of the employer to carry on trade, it will  permitcontract  labour to be carried on.  On the other hand if  itcomes  to the conclusion that employment of contract  labouris  unreasonable in the circumstances of the case before  itit  will hold that it should be abolished, the reason  beingthat its abolition would be a reasonable restriction in	 thecircumstances.	 Therefore the decision whether the mode  ofemployment in a particular case is a reasonable	 restrictionor  unreasonable  one is in the hands  of  a  quasi-judicialtribunal.   In the circumstances it cannot be said  that  byproviding  in s. 3(18) that an "industrial matter"  includesalso  the mode of employment, there is any contravention  ofthe fundamental right of the employer to carry on trade.  Ifthe argument on behalf of the appellant were to be  acceptedit  would  mean that judicial and  quasi-judicial  decisionscould be unreasonable restrictions on fundamental rights andthis  the  Constitution does not envisage at  all.   We	 aretherefore of opinion that this contention also fails.Finally,  Mr.  Pathak draws our attention to ss.  3(13)	 and3(14)  of the Act and submits that the appellant never	saidthat  contract labour employed in its mills was not  in	 itsemployment.   Sec.  3(13) defines the  word  "employee"	 andincludes in it any person employed by a contractor to do anywork for him in the execution of a contract with an employerwithin	the meaning of sub-cl. (e) of cl. (14).	 Sec.  3(14)defines	 the word "employer" in an inclusive manner and	 in-cludes "where the owner of any undertaking in the course  ofor  for the purpose of conducting the undertaking  contractswith any person for the execution by or under the contractorof  the	 whole or any part of any work which  is  ordinarilypart of the undertaking, the owner of the undertaking".	  Itis urged that in view350of  these definitions, the employees of the contractors	 arethe  employees of the mills and the mills are the  employersof  these  employees  of the  contractors.   Therefore,	 Mr.Pathak	urges  that  there is no  necessity    of abolishingcontract labour and that the industrial court may, if it  sochooses,  give	the same wages and hours of  work  and	restintervals  and other terms and conditions of  employment  tothe  employees	of  the	 contractors  as  are  provided	 forcomparable  direct  employees of the appellant and  in	suchcircumstances  it  would  not be necessary  to	abolish	 thecontract system so long as the employees of contractors	 areto  be in the same position as the direct employees  of	 theappellant as to their terms and conditions of service.	Thiswas  not however the-manner in which the case was  contestedbefore the industrial court or the appellate tribunal.	 Allthat we need therefore say is that when the matter goes backbefore	the  industrial court as directed by  the  appellatetribunal,  the industrial court may take this submission  ofthe  appellant into account and may consider whether  it  isnecessary  to  abolish	the contract  system,  provided	 theappellant  is  able  to assure	the  industrial	 court	thatemployees  of  the  contractors who are	 deemed	 to  be	 itsemployees within the meaning of s. 3(13) and s. 3(14)  wouldhave  the full benefit of the same terms and  conditions  ofservice as its comparable direct employees.The appeal fails and is hereby dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.351