PETITIONER:THE DISTRICT BOARD, GHAZIPUR	Vs.RESPONDENT:LAKSHMI NARAIN SHARMADATE OF JUDGMENT:26/10/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.MUDHOLKAR, J.R.CITATION: 1961 AIR  356		  1961 SCR  (2)	 81ACT:Regulation and Control of Trade-District Board, Power  of-Ifimpliedly   repealed-Sanitation,  connotation	of--U.	  P.District Boards Act, 1922 (U.  P. X of 1922), ss. 91(q)	 and174-U. P. Panchayat Raj Act, 1947 (U.  P. XXVI of 1947), ss.15 and III.HEADNOTE:The appellant framed bye-laws for the regulation and controlof flour, rice and oil mills under which a licence had to beobtained on payment of licence fee for running a mill.	 Thebye-laws  were	framed under s. 174 of the  U.	P.  DistrictBoards	Act, 1922.  The respondent contended that  the	bye-laws  were ultra vires and void as the District	 Boards	 hadbeen divested of their powers to regulate and control  tradeunder the District Boards Act on account of s. III of the P.P.  Panchayat  Raj  Act, 1947, which operated  in  the	samefield.Held,  that the bye-laws had been validly made and that	 theDistrict  Boards were not divested of their powers to  regu-late and control trade under the District Boards Act,  1922,by the provisions of U. P. Panchayat Raj Act, 1947.  Section91(q) of the District Boards Act cast a duty on the DistrictBoards	 to  make  provisions  for   regulating	  offensive,dangerous or obnoxious trades, callings or practices and  s.174(2)(k)  specifically	 empowered District Boards  to	makebye-laws  in  this respect.  There was no  similar  duty  orpower conferred upon Village Panchayats under the  PanchayatRaj Act and consequently the question of the later enactmentprevailing over the former did82not arise.  The reference to "sanitation" in s. 15(c) of thePanchayat  Raj Act did not cover regulation and	 control  oftrade.	 Though	 the  word  " sanitation  "  in	 its  widestconnotation  was capable of including this, it was not	usedin  its	 widest sense in s. 15(c) but only in  its  ordinarysense  in  relation to conservancy, drainage and  the  like.Section	 III of the Panchayat Raj Act was in general  terms,but bye-laws could be framed under it only in respect of thefunctions and duties imposed upon a Gram Panchayat under ss.15 and 16.Held, further, that the licence fee charged by the  DistrictBoard  could  not be struck down on account  of	 fees  beingcharged	 from the respondent in respect of his	mills  underthe U. P. Rice and Dal Mills Control Order, 1948, and the U.P.  Pure Food Act.  The licence fee charged by the  DistrictBoard  was  for the regulation of obnoxious trades  and	 thepurpose	 of this regulation was different from	the  purposefor  which  fee was charged from the  respondent  under	 theEssential Supplies Act and the Pure Food Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 372 of 1956.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated January 18,  1956,of  the	 Allahabad High Court in Special Appeal	 No.  43  of1955.G.   C. Mathur, for the appellant.G.   P. Singh and K. P. Gupta, for the respondent.S.   P. Sinha and P. C. Agarwala, for Intervener No. 1.Radheylal Agarwala and P.C. Agarwala, for intervener No. 2.Frank Anthony and M. I. Khowaja, for Intervener No. 3.1960.  October 26.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyWANCHOO J.-This is an appeal on a certificate granted by theAllahabad  High	 Court.	 The respondent is carrying  on	 thetrade of hulling rice, milling grains and extracting oil  invillage Nandganj within the area of Gaon Sabha Barapur.	  Heobtained  licences  for the three trades  under	 the  UnitedProvinces  Rice and Dal Control Order, 1948, as	 also  underthe Uttar Pradesh Pure Food Act, 1950.	Further the Gaon83of  Rs.	 8/- on each mill within its  jurisdiction  and	 therespondent  had	 been  paying that as  well.   In  1953	 theDistrict  Board, Ghazipur, in which district the village  issituate, enforced bye-laws for the regulation and control offlour, rice and oil mills in the rural areas of the districtunder  which a licence has to be obtained by such  mills  onpayment of Rs. 20/- as licence-fee per year per mill.	Whenthe  respondent	 was  served with a notice  to	take  out  alicence	 for  each  mill  and to  pay  the  licence-fee,  heobjected  to  the  legality and validity  of  the  levy	 andthereafter  filed  a writ petition in the High	Court  underArt.  226  of  the Constitution.   His	contention  in	thisconnection was three-fold, namely-(i) After the constitutionof Gaon Sabha Barapur under the U. P. Panchayat Raj Act, No.XXVI  of 1947, the District Board had been divested  of	 itspower  and  jurisdiction  in the matter	 of  regulation	 andcontrol of trade under the relevant provisions of the U.  P.District Boards Act, No. X of 1922; (ii) the respondent	 hadpaid the necessary licence-fees under the U.P. Rice and	 DalControl	 Order, 1948 and the U. P. Pure Food Act,  1950	 andcould not be asked to pay the licence-fees over again  underthe District Boards Act; and (iii) in any case the levy	 wastoo  high and not in proportion to the actual  and  probableexpenses  which	 the District Board would have to  incur  incontrolling or regulating trade and was meant to augment thegeneral revenues of the District Board.The writ petition was heard by a learned Single Judge of theHigh  Court who appears to have dismissed it in limine by  areasoned  judgment  negativing	all  the  three	 contentionsraised	by  the	 respondent.  The respondent  then  went  inappeal and the Appeal Court allowed the appeal holding	thatin  view  of s. 111 of the Panchayat Raj Act,  the  DistrictBoard had lost its power to make bye-laws for the regulationand  control  of trade under s. 174 of the  District  BoardsAct.  The Appeal Court was further of the view that the levywas not out of proportion to the expenses to be incurred  bythe  District Board in the matter of regulation and  controland was not a tax.  It did not decide the third point raisedon behalf of the84respondent.   The   District  Board  then  applied   for   acertificate  to appeal to this Court, which was granted	 andthat is how the matter has come up before us.The  main  question which falls for  consideration  in	thisappeal	is  whether the view of the Appeal  Court  that	 theDistrict Board has lost its power to make bye-laws under  s.174 of the District Boards Act for regulation and control oftrade  in  view	 of  s. 111 of the  Panchayat  Raj  Act,  iscorrect.   Learned  counsel  for  the  appellant  puts	 hisargument on this point in two ways.  In the first place,  heurges  that  the  Panchayat Raj Act  does  not	contain	 anyprovision by which the Gaon Sabha or the Gaon Panchayat	 hasbeen  given  the  power to regulate  or	 control  trade	 andtherefore  even if the Panchayat Raj Act is to prevail	overthe  District Boards Act, where the two deal with  the	samematter, this particular power remains in the District  Boardas  it	is  not included within the  powers  exercisable  byPanchayats under the Panchayat Raj Act.	 In the alternative,he urges that the intention of the legislature was not	thatthose provisions of the District Boards Act which are commonin the two Acts should be repealed by necessary implication,and  therefore	the District Board's power  to	control	 andregulate trade would remain whatever may be the provision ofthe Panchayat Raj Act.We  shall therefore examine the first contention  raised  onbehalf	of  the	 appellant  under  this	 head,	for  if	 thePanchayat  Raj	Act  has not provided for  the	control	 andregulation of trade by the Gaon Sabha or the Gaon Panchayst,there  will be no question of any inconsistency between	 theDistrict Boards Act and the Panchayat Raj Act and  thereforeno question of the later Act (i. e., the Panchayat Raj	Act)prevailing over the earlier Act (i. e., the District  BoardsAct).	Section 91 of the District Boards Act  provides	 forwhat may be called compulsory duties of District Boards	 andcl.  (q)  of this section lays down that every	board  shallmake reasonable provision within the district for regulatingoffensive,  dangerous  or  obnoxious  trades,  callings	  orpractices.   Section  106 of the District Boards  Act  givespower to the Board to charge a fee85to  be	fixed  by  bye-law  for	 any  licence,	sanction  orpermission  which it is entitled or required to grant by  orunder  the District Boards Act.	 Section 174 gives power  tothe District Board to frame bye-laws consistent with the Actand  with any rules framed by the State Government  for	 thepurpose	 of promoting or maintaining the health, safety	 andconvenience  of	 the  inhabitants of the area  and  for	 thefurtherance of the administration of the district under	 theAct.  In particular, power is given by s. 174 (2) (k) to theDistrict  Board to frame bye-laws for regulating  slaughter-houses	 and  offensive,  dangerous  or	 obnoxious   trades,callings  or  practices and prescribing fees to	 defray	 theexpenditure  incurred by it for this purpose.  It is not  indispute	 that  the  District Board  has	 power	under  theseprovisions to frame bye-laws for regulation of these trades,(namely,  hulling rice, milling grains and extracting  oil).Therefore,  unless this power is taken away expressly or  bynecessary implication by any provision of the Panchayat	 RajAct, the District Board would be entitled to frame the	bye-laws   which  it  did  in  1953	 and   charge	licence-feesthereunder.Turning now to the Panchayat Raj Act, we find that s. 15  ofthis  Act  provides for what may be  called  the  compulsoryduties of a Gaon Panchayat while s. 16 provides for what maybe called its optional dutiee,.	 Section Ill gives power  tothe  prescribed	 authority  to	make  bye-laws	for  a	GaonPanchayat  within its jurisdiction consistent with  the	 Actand  the Rules made thereunder for the purpose of  promotingor maintaining the health, safety and convenience of personsresiding within the jurisdiction of a Gaon Panchayat and forfurtherance  of the administration of Gaon Panchayats  underthe  Act.   The	 prescribed authority in this  case  is	 theExecutive Committee of the District Board (see, s. 56 of theDistrict  Boards  Act)	which may  be  assumed	for  presentpurposes  to be different from the District Board  as  such.The  contention on behalf of the appellant is  that  readingss.  15	 and  16 together with s. 111  it  is  obvious	thatregulation  or control of trades, callings and practices  isnot within the purview of the Panchayat Raj Act.  There86is  no	doubt  that neither s. 15 nor  s.  16  contains	 anyprovision  corresponding to s. 91(q) of the District  BoardsAct.   Therefore,  prima  facie the Panchayat  Raj  Act	 hasnothing	 to do with the regulation or control of  offensive,dangerous  or  obnoxious trades, callings or  practices	 andthis  power of the District Board is unaffected by  anythingin   the  Panchayat  Raj  Act.	 Learned  counsel  for	 therespondent, however, urges that though there is no  specificprovision  relating  to such regulation or  control  in	 thePanchayat  Raj	Act  in	 ss.  15  and  16,  this  matter  ofregulation and control is impliedly covered by el. (c) of s.15  of the Panchayat Raj Act, which enjoins on	a  Panchayatthe  duty  to make reasonable provision for  sanitation	 andtaking	curative  and preventive measures to remove  and  tostop   the  spread  of	an  epidemic.	It  is	urged	thatsanitation'  must  be  given a very wide  meaning  and	thatmeaning will include the regulation of offensive,  dangerousor  obnoxious trades.  It may be that on the widest  meaningof the word " sanitation " such regula. tion may be includedin it; but looking to the scheme of the District Boards	 Actas well as the Panchayat Raj Act, it is, in our opinion, notcorrect to give the widest possible connotation to the	word"  sanitation " in cl. (c) of s. 15.  Section 91(m)  of	 theDistrict  Boards  Act  provides for  "	public	vaccination,sanitation and the prevention of disease "; but in spite  ofthis entry relating to sanitation there are other provisionsin  s.	91  which  deal	 with  what  would  be	covered	  by"'sanitation  " if it were to be given the  widest  possiblemeaning	 as, for example, cl. (e) relating  to	constructionand repair of public wells, etc. and drainage works and	 thesupply of water from them ; el. (n) relating to provision ofa  sufficient supply of pure and wholesome water  where	 thehealth of the inhabitants is endangered by the insufficiencyor  unwholesomeness  of the existing supply,  guarding	frompollution  water used for human consumption  and  preventingpolluted  water	 from  being so used; cl.  (r)	relating  todissemination  of  knowledge  on such  matters	as  disease,hygiene,  sanitation, etc.  This will show that the  word  "sanitation  " in cl. (m) of s. 91 is not used in its  widestsense.87Similarly  in s. 92 (which provides for optional  duties  ofDistrict  Boards),  cl. (c) refers to  reclaiming  unhealthylocalities; and cl. (i) to conserving and preventing  injuryor  contamination  to  or pollution  of,  rivers  and  othersources	 of  water supply, which matters  would	 be  coveredwithin	the  wide  meaning of  sanitation.   It	 is  obvioustherefore  that when the word " sanitation" is used  in	 theDistrict  Boards  Act  it is used  in  a  restricted  sense.Similarly in the Panchayat Raj Act cl. (c) of s. 15 mentions"  sanitation ". Clause (g) relates to regulation of  placesfor the disposal of' carcases and of other offensive matterswhich  would  clearly be covered by " sanitation  "  in	 itswidest	sense and would have been unnecessary if  sanitationwas to be given its widest meaning in this section.   Clause(k)  of	 s. 15 provides for regulation of sources  of  watersupply	for drinking purpose which would again	be  includedwithin the widest meaning of the word " sanitation ". Clause(r)  provides  for allotment of places	for  storing  manurewhich  would again be embraced within the widest meaning  ofthe  word " sanitation " and need not have  been  separatelyprovided for, if sanitation in cl. (c) had the wide  meaningurged  for  it on behalf of the respondent.  Further  s.  16(which	 deals	with  discretionary  functions	of  a	GaonPanchayat) provides in cl. (c) for filling in of  insanitarydepressions  and levelling of land-a clause which  would  beunnecessary  if	 "  sanitation "  has  the  widest  possiblemeaning.   Clause (1) of s. 16 provides for  regulating	 thecollection, removal and disposal of manure and sweepings andmaking arrangement for the disposal of carcases of  animals,which again would be covered by el. (c), if sanitation is tobe  given the widest possible meaning.	Clause (m)  providesfor prohibiting or regulating the curing, tanning and dyeingof skins within 220 yards of the abadi, which again would becovered	 by  the  word " sanitation " if  it  had  the	widemeaning urged on behalf of the respondent.  It would thus beclear that both in the District Boards Act as well as in thePanchayat Raj Act when the word " sanitation " has been usedit  has not been used in its widest sense; it seems to	havebeen used in its ordinary meaning i. e., the improvement  ofsanitary88conditions  specially with regard to dirt and infection	 andwould thus be confined to matters of conservancy and draingeand the like.  In the context therefore of both the DistrictBoards	Act and the Panchayat Raj Act, it seems to  us	thatthe  word  " sanitation " as used in s. 91 of  the  DistrictBoards Act and A. 15 of the Panchayat Raj Act is confined toits ordinary meaning in relation to conservancy and drainageand  the  like with reference to the necessity	of  avoidingdirt and disease and cannot be given such a wide meaning  asto  include  control or regulation of  trades,	callings  orpractices.   Section  18 of the Panchayat Raj  Act  gives  aclear  indication  that it is the ordinary meaning  that  isintended  by  the word " sanitation " in cl. (c) of  s.	 15.Section 18 deals with improvement of sanitation and providesthat  a	 Gaon Panchayat may by notice direct  the  owner  oroccupier  of any land or building, to close, remove,  alter,repair, cleanse, disinfect or put in good order any latrine,urinal,	 water-closet, drain, cesspool'or  other  receptaclefor  filth, sullage-water, rubbish or refuse and so  on;  tocleanse,  repair,  cover, fill up, drain off, deepen  or  toremove	water  from a private well, tank,  reservoir,  pool,pit, depression or excavation therein which may appear to beinjurious  to health or offensive to the  neighbourhood;  toclear  off  any	 vegetation, undergrowth,  prickly  pear  orscrub-jungle; and to remove any dirt, dung, nightson. manureor any noxious or offensive matter therefrom and to  cleansethe  land or building.	It must therefore be held  that	 thePanchayat  Raj Act does not provide for control and  regula-tion of trades, callings or practices like s. 91 (q) of	 theDistrict Boards Act.It  is however urged that even though ss. 15 and 16  do	 notspecifically  deal  with control and regulation	 of  trades,callings  or practices, s. Ill is in very general terms	 andgives  powers to the prescribed authority to frame any	bye-laws relating to promotion or maintenance of health,  safetyand convenience of persons residing within the	jurisdictionof a Gaon Panchayat.  It is true that these words in s.	 IIIare of wide amplitude ; but they cannot, in our opinion,  bewidened89beyond the duties imposed on a Gaon Panchayat or Gaon  Sabhaunder  as.  15	and  16 or any	other  provi.  sion  of	 thePanchayat  Raj Act.  The bye-laws framed under	section	 111which are for the promotion or maintenance of health, safetyand  convenience  have	also to be  in	furtherance  of	 theadministration of Gaon Panchayats under the Act.   Thereforeif  Gaon Panchayats have administrative functions under	 as.15 and 16 or any other provision of the Act, bye-laws can beframed	under a. 111 for these purposes in order to  furtherthe  administration of Gaon Panchayats.	 But, if as we	haveheld,  Gaon  Panchayats are not invested with  the  duty  tocontrol	 and regulate trades, callings and practices,  therecan be no question of framing bye-laws in that behalf  unders.  111	 on the basis of the wide words used  therein.	 Thepower  to  frame bye-laws under s. 111 is, in  our  opinion,conditioned  by the duties and functions imposed on  a	GaonPanchayat under ss. 15 and 16 as well as other provisions ofthe  Panchayat Raj Act.	 It is not in dispute that there  isno other provision of the Panchayat Raj Act which imposes  aduty  on  Gaon	Panchayats to control  or  regulate  trades,callings  or practices and therefore the power under s.	 111does  not extend to prescribing bye-laws for  that  purpose.The only other section to which our attention is drawn is s.37(d)  by  which a Gaon Sabha has been given  the  power  toimpose	a  tax	on trades,  callings  and  professions,	 notexceeding  such	 rate  as may be prescribed.   This  in	 ouropinion	 has  nothing to do with the regulation	 of  trades,callings  and practices and levying of licence-fees in	thatbehalf.	  What this provision refers to is what is  providedin  item 60 of List II of the Seventh Schedule and not	feesproperly so-called.  We are therefore of opinion that as thePanchayat Raj Act does not provide for control or regulationof  the nature mentioned in s. 91(q) of the District  BoardsAct, there is no question of the power of the District Boardunder s. 174 to frame bye-laws and to prescribe fees in thatbehalf being taken away by s. 111 of the Panchayat Raj	Act.It  seems that this aspect of the matter was not  argued  inthe High Court at all and it90appears	 to have been assumed there that the  Panchayat	 RajAct  also provided for the same matter as was covered by  s.91(q) of the District Boards Act and it was probably on thatbasis that the High Court held that s. Ill of the  PanchayatRaj  Act prevailed over s. 174 of the District	Boards	Act.In  the view we have taken it is not necessary	to  considerthe  alternative argument raised on behalf of the  appellantin respect of this point.This brings us to the point which was not considered by	 theAppeal Court, though the learned Single Judge had dealt withit and held against the respondent.  That contention is thatcertain	 fees are being levied on the respondent in  respectof  these mills under the U. P. Rice and Dal  Mills  ControlOrder,	1948 and the U. P. Pure Food Act and  therefore	 theDistrict Board cannot levy any further licence-fee under  s.91(q)  of  the	District Boards Act read with  s.  174.	  Aspointed	 out  by the learned Single Judge, the	fees  leviedunder  the  Control  Order of 1948  which  depends  for	 itsexistence on the Essential Supplies Act and under the U.  P.Pure Food Act are for different purposes of those Acts.	 Thefee  charged  by  the District Board is	 for  regulation  ofobnoxious  trades  and	the purpose of	this  regulation  isdifferent  from the purpose for which fees are levied  underthe  Essential	Supplies Act-and the Pure Food	Act.   Underthese  circumstances we see no reason for striking down	 theregulatory provisions made under the District Boards Act andthe licence-fee charged thereunder.  The fact that there maybe  some overlapping between the regulatory provisions	madeunder  the  U.	P. Pure Food Act and those  made  under	 theDistrict Boards Act can have no relevance on the validity ofthe bye-laws and the licence-fee charged under them.In this view of the matter, the appeal is allowed, the orderof  the	 Appeal	 Court	set  aside  and	 the  writ  petitiondismissed.  However, as the point on which the appellant hassucceeded  in this Court was not specifically raised in	 theHigh  Court,  we order the parties to bear their  own  coststhroughout.Appeal allowed.91