PETITIONER:WASIM KHAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH.DATE OF JUDGMENT:12/03/1956BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.AIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR  400		  1956 SCR  191ACT:Possession,   recent  and  unexplained	of   stolen   goods-Presumptive  evidence against prisoner not only	 of  robberybut of murder as well.HEADNOTE:The  appellant was sentenced to death for the murder of	 oneand also sentenced to seven years rigorous imprisonment	 forhaving	robbed	the  murdered  man  of	his  goods,  It	 wasestablished by the evidence on the record that the deceased,a  shop-keeper	of  village Jarwal had gone  to	 Lucknow  topurchase  goods for his shop.  On his return journey he	 gotdown from the train at about 10 p.m. He had with him a	box,a  balti,  a  gunni bag and a jhola and	 other	things.	  Heengaged	 the appellant's cart to take him and his  goods  tohis  village.	Two other persons also got on to  the  cart.Neither	 the deceased, nor the articles which were with	 himnor the cart reached Jarwal.  In the morning the body of thedeceased was found near a bridge in the vicinity of  Jarwal.During investigation on the fourth day after the  occurrencethe  appellant gave the key of his kothri to the police	 andfrom the kothri, a dhoti, a box, a balti, a chadar, a  gunnybag  and  a jhola were recovered which	were  identified  asbelonging  to the deceased.  A big knife was also  recoveredfrom  the kothri which the appellant disowned but could	 notexplain	 how  it was found in his home.	  The  appellant  onexamination  before the Sessions Judge under s. 342  of	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure stated that the  deceased  askedhim to take his goods 'in the cart at about 10 p.m. when  hegot down at the Railway Station.  Two other men were also inthe  cart  who	got down at the Sugar  Mill  gate  near	 theRailway	 Station.  At Raduayan Bridge three men enquired  ifthe  deceased was in the cart.	The deceased  responded	 andgot down from the cart asking the appellant to halt his cartnear Jarwal Bazar Bridge where he waited for the deceased upto1924 a.m. but he did not turn up.	Not knowing the house of thedeceased  he took the dead man's goods to his own  house  ashis  buffaloes were very hungry.  He stated further that  hehad  handed over all the articles of the deceased person  tothe police which he had locked in the kothri.Held,  that recent and unexplained possession of the  stolenproperty  while it would be presumptive evidence  against  aprisoner  on  the  charge  of  robbery	would  similarly  beevidence against him on the charge of murder.  All the factswhich  tell  against the appellants especially	his  conductindicating  consciousness  of guilt, point  equally  to	 theconclusion  that he was guilty as well of the murder  as  ofthe robbery.The  Emperor v. Sheikh Neamatulla ([1913] 17  C.W.N.  1077),Queen-Empress  v.  Sami and Another ([1890] I.L.R.  13	Mad.426), Emperor v. Chintamoni Shahu (A.I.R. 1930 Cal. 379), Inre Guli Venkataswami (A.I.R. 1950 Mad. 309), and  BamprashadMukundram  Rajput  v.  The Crown  (A.I.R.  1949	 Nag.  277),referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CriminalAppeal No. 24 of 1956.On appeal by special leave from the judgment and order datedthe,  26th  September  1955  of	 the  Allahabad	 High  Court(Lucknow  Bench)  in  Criminal Appeal No. 195  of  1955	 andCapital Sentence No. 17 of 1955 arising out of the  judgmentand  order  dated the 11th April 1955 of the  Court  of	 theSessions Judge at Bahraich in Criminal S.T. No. 9 of 1955.D.   R. Prem, for the appellant.K.   B. Asthana and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.1956.  March 12.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byIMAM J.-The appellant 'was sentenced to death for the murderof  one Ram Dularey.  He was also sentenced to seven  years'rigorous imprisonment for having robbed the murdered man  ofhis  goods.  He was tried along with two other persons,	 whowere' acquitted, by the Sessions Judge of Bahraich.  All thefour assessors,, who attended the trial, were of the opinionthat the appellant was guilty.	The High Court of  Allahabadaffirmed the conviction and the sentence and this appeal  isby special leave,193Certain	 facts have been proved beyond all  doubt.   Indeed,the most important of them are admitted by the appellant  inhis  statement	under section 342 of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  when examined in the Court of Sessions.   It	 hasbeen  established  by  the evidence in	the  case  that	 thedeceased  Ram Dularey, a shop-keeper of Jarwal, had gone  toLucknow	 to  purchase  goods for his shop.   On	 his  returnjourney,  he got down from the train at Jarwal Road  Stationon the 2nd of July, 1954, at about 9-30 p.m. He had with himarticles  consisting of a box, a balti, a gunny bag,  jholasand  other  things.   Shortly  thereafter,  he	engaged	 theappellant's  cart to take him and his goods to his  village.Two  other persons also got on to the cart.   The  appellantwas  driving  the  cart.   Neither  the	 deceased  nor	 thearticles,  which  were with him, nor the cart  ever  reachedJarwal.	 In the morning, Ram Dularey's body was found near abridge	in close vicinity of Jarwal.  'Information was	sentto   the  police  who  commenced  investigation	 and   theirenquiriesed  them to the appellant, who was arrested on	 the6th of July, 1954.  The appellant gave the key of his kothrito  the	 police with which it was opened.  From	 the  kothrinumerous articles were recovered, including a big knife	 Ex.20  with blood-stains, a dhoti Ex. 3, a box Ex. 9,  a  baltiEx.  I,, a chadar Ex. 2, a gunny bag Ex. 13 and a jhola	 Ex.24.   It is not necessary to give the details of  the  otherarticles  recovered.   The knife was sent  to  the  ChemicalExaminer along with the dhoti.	Although minute blood-stainswere  detected	on the knife, they were	 not  sufficient  toenable	a  comparison in a blood group test.  No  blood	 wasdiscovered  on the dhoti.  The dhoti Ex. 3, the box  Ex.  9,the balti Ex. 1, the chadar Ex. 2, the gunny bag Ex. 13	 andthe  jhola Ex. 24 have been identified as belonging  to	 thedeceased Ram Dularey. When  examined	 under section 342 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure  by the Sessions Judge, the appellant stated	thatthe deceased Ram Dularey bad asked him to take his goods  inhis  cart and it was agreed that Rs. 2 would be paid as	 thefare.  The appellant194took  the deceased on his cart with his goods including	 thebox Ex. 9. Two other men were also in the cart who got	downat  the	 Sugar	Mill gate at the Railway  Station.   At	 theRaduayan Bridge three men enquired if Ram Dularey was in thecart.	Ram  Dularey responded and got down  from  the	cartasking	the  appellant	to halt his  cart  at  Jarwal  BazarBridge,	 where he waited for the deceased until 4 a.m.,	 butthe deceased did not turn up.  As the appellant did not knowthe house of the deceased in Jarwal Bazar, he took the	deadman's  goods in his cart to his own house as  his  buffaloeswere very hungry.  To the question as to whether any articleof the deceased was recovered from his house by the  police,the  appellant stated that he handed over to the police	 allthe  property  of the deceased which be had  looked  in	 thekothri.	  He  asserted that he had told the  people  in	 hisvillage	 as well as the Mukhia that he would hand  over	 theproperty  to its owner when he came to take  it.  Concerningthe  knife, he disowned its ownership and could not say	 howit came to be found in his house.  So far as the dhoti Ex. 3is concerned, the appellant claimed it as his.  On behalf of the appellant, it was urged that the evidencein the case was insufficient to establish any of the chargesframed	against him.  In the alternative, it was  suggested,that  as the co-accused of the appellant had been  acquittedthe  latter could not be convicted of the offence of  murderby  the application of the provisions of section 34  of	 theIndian	Penal Code in the absence of proof that any  act  ofhis caused the death of Ram Dularey.  It was also  submittedthat  no  question  was put by the  Sessions  Judge  to	 theappellant when he was examined under section 342 of the Codeof  Criminal  Procedure	 concerning the	 act  of  murder  orrobbery. We  have examined the statement of the	 appellant  recordedunder  section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure by	 theSessions Judge.	 At the very commencemeilt of the record  ofthat  statement, the Sessions Judge readout the	 appellant'sstatement  under  section  342	of  the	 Code  of   CriminalProcedure before195the  Committing	 Magistrate  and enquired  'Whether  it	 wascorrect.,   to	 which	the  'appellant	  replied   in	 theaffirmative.   The  statement of the  appellant	 before	 theMagistrate  is admissible under section 287 of the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure.   The Magistrate  pointedly  asked	 theappellant  as  to whether he along with	 the  other  accusedmurdered Ram Dularey and had taken his property to which theappellant replied in the negative.  It was not necessary forthe Sessions Judge to specifically repeat the same when	 theappellant  admitted  his  statement  before  the  CommittingMagistrate  as	correct when read out to  him.	 Apart	fromthis,  when the statement of the appellant to  the  SessionsJudge  is  read	 as  a whole,  it  clearly  shows  that	 theappellant  knew what the accusation against him was  and  heoffered an explanation for the disappearance of Ram  Dulareyfrom  his  cart	 and for his possession	 of  the  deceased'sgoods.	 There is no justification for supposing that  therehad been any prejudice caused to the appellant on account ofimproper  or insufficient recording of his statement by	 theSessions  Judge	 under section 342 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure.  On  the facts proved beyond question it is clear that	 thelast time the deceased was seen alive was in the company  ofthe  appellant and two other persons when the  cart  startedfor  Jarwal  and his goods were' on that  cart.	  There	 is,however,  no evidence as to what happened in the  course  ofthe journey.  Concerning that we have only the statement  ofthe  accused.  The evidence next establishes that after	 thecart  started, next morning, the 3rd of July, the dead	bodyof Ram Dularey was found not far from Jarwal.  His goods haddisappeared  and some of them at any rate were found in	 thepossession of the appellant on the 6th of July. The  real  question  is whether the evidence  in  the	caseestablishes  that  the	appellant murdered  and	 robbed	 RamDularey.   The evidence is circumstantial.  Before  we	dealwith  that  evidence, it is necessary to  consider  how	 farrecent	 possession   of   property  of	  a   deceased,	  incircumstances clearly indicating that he196had  been murdered and robbed, would suggest that  not	onlythe  possessor of the property was a thief or a receiver  ofstolen	property,  but that it also indicated  that  he	 wasguilty of -a more aggravated crime which had connection withthe   theft.   In  the	case  of  The  Emperor	 v.   SheikhNeamatulla(1)  Sir  Lawrence  Jenkins had  the	occasion  toexamine	 this question.	 After referring to section  114  ofthe Evidence Act, be quoted the following passage from Willson Circumstantial Evidence: "the possession of stolen goods recently after the loss  ofthem,  may  be	indicative  not merely	of  the	 offence  oflarceny,  or of receiving with guilty knowledge, but of	 anyother  more aggravated crime which has been  connected	withtheft.	 This particular fact of presumption commonly  formsalso  a	 material element of evidence in  cases	 of  murder;which special application of it has often been	emphaticallyrecognized".  In  the  case of Queen-Empress v. Sami and  Another(2)  atpage  432,  the learned Judges of the High  Court  observed,"Under	these  circumstances,  and in  the  absence  of	 anyexplanation,  the presumption arises that any one  who	tookpart in the robbery also took part in the murder.  In  casesin which murder and robbery have been shown to form parts ofone   transaction,  it	has  been  held	 that	recent	 andunexplained possession of the stolen property while it wouldbe presumptive evidence against a prisoner on the charge  ofrobbery	 would	similarly  be evidence against	him  on	 thecharge	of  murder.  All the facts which  tell	against	 theappellant, especially his conduct indicating a consciousnessof guilt, point equally to the conclusion that he was guiltyas     well	of     the     murder	  as	 of therobbery.......................	In  the case of	 Emperor  v.Chintamoni  Shahu(3),  the opinion was expressed  that	"thepossession  of stolen goods recently after the loss of	themmay be indicative not merely of the offence of larceny or ofreceiving  with	 guilty	 knowledge but	of  any	 other	moreaggravated Crime which has been(1) [1913]17 C.W.N. 1077.   (2) [1890] I.L.R. 13 Mad. 426.(a) A.I.R. 1930 Cal. 379.197connected  with	 the  theft; this particular  fact  of	pre-sumption  forms also a material element of evidence  in	 thecase of murder".  A similar view seems to have been taken inthe  case  of In re Guli Venkataswamy(1) as well as  in	 thecase of Ramprashad Makundram Rajput v. The Crown(2).  In  the present case it is established beyond	 doubt	thatthe deceased travelled with his goods with the appellant  onhis  bullock cart.  He should have reached  his	 destinationJarwal	in  the course of the night.  He  never	 got  there.Obviously,  he	was  murdered  on  his	way  home.   On	 theappellant's own statement, he and the deceased were alone inthe cart after the other two persons had got off the cart atthe Sugar Mill gate.  Thereafter the deceased was never seenalive by any one.  He was found murdered.  The appellant wasfound  in  possession  of the deceased's  goods	 three	daysafterwards.   The  appellant  made no effort  to  trace	 thewhereabouts  of	 the deceased or lodge	information  of	 hisdisappearance from the bullock cart.  The appellant has toldthe  court  that some people called the deceased  while	 thecart  was on its journey and the deceased told him  to	waitfor him at a certain place.  He waited until 4 a.m. but	 thedeceased  never	 turned up.  This should  have	aroused	 hissuspicions and he should have informed the police or someonein  authority about it.	 He says he informed the Mukhia	 andall the people about it.  Neither the Mukhia nor anyone	 hasbeen  examined	by  the	 appellant  to	support	 his  story.Reliance was placed on the statement of Iftikhar Ahmad	P.W.7)  who spoke of a rumour in the village that the  appellanthad  brought the property of a man on his cart who had	goneaway and that this rumour had been spread by the  appellant.It  is clear, however, that the witness was not speaking  ofthis  from his personal knowledge and his statement  is	 notlegal evidence.	 On the other hand, if really the  appellanthad  spread such a rumour there is no  adequate	 explanationfor his failure to inform the authorities.  He(1) A.I.R. 1950 Mad. 309.      (2) A.I.R. 1949 Nag. 277.26198knew  he  was in possession of a large	number	of  articlesbelonging  to  the  man	 who had  hired	 his  cart  but	 haddisappeared  in	 very strange circumstances.   In  addition,there  is no explanation for his possession of a big  blood-stained knife, a weapon which if used against the  deceased,could  have  caused the injuries found on him.	It  is	truethat  the  blood  stains  were	minute	and  have  not	beenestablished  to be of human blood.  The appellant,  however,denied that the knife belonged to him, and has not explainedas to how it came to be in his possession.  It is impossibleto  believe  his story that he waited until 4 a.m.  for	 thedeceased  to return.  The cart had started from Jarwal	RoadStation at about 10 p.m. It could not have been more than  acouple	of hours later that the deceased left the cart.	  Towait  from  that time until 4 a.m. at a place not  far	fromJarwal	itself appears to be a fantastic story.	 It is	truethat  none of the clothes of the appellant were found to  bebloodstained,  as  they should have been, if he	 bad  parti-cipated	 in the murder, having regard to the nature  of	 theinjuries  on  the deceased.  These clothes were	 not  seizeduntil the 6th July, some three days later, and the appellantcould  have  removed  all traces of blood  stains  from	 hisclothing in that time.  The appellant was convicted of the offences of murder	 androbbery by the Sessions Judge by the application of  section34  of the Indian Penal Code.  The charge  framed,  however,was  one of murder and robbery and there was no	 mention  ofthese offences having been committed in the furtherance of acommon	intention.  The High Court, however, found that	 theappellant along with two others committed these offences andthey  shared in the goods robbed.  On this finding, even  ifthe   co-accused  of  the  appellant  were  acquitted,	 theappellant  could  be  convicted by the	application  of	 theprovisions  of	section 34 of the Indian  Penal	 Code.	 Thecharge	framed	against	 the appellant was  for	 murder	 androbbery and the only question to be decided was whether	 theevidence  was sufficient to support such a charge or did  itmerely establish offences less grave in nature.	 We think it199was  and are satisfied that it establishes the	offences  ofmurder and robbery against the appellant and not merely	 theminor  offence	of robbery or theft.  It  is  impossible  toaccept	the submission that the evidence does not  establishany offence having been committed by the appellant. Having	 regard to what is established in the case  and	 theprinciples deducible from the cases cited, we are  satisfiedthat  the  appellant  has  been	 rightly  convicted  of	 theoffences  of murder and robbery.  The appeal is	 accordinglydismissed.