PETITIONER:S.   M. BANERJI	Vs.RESPONDENT:SRI KRISHNA AGARWALDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/11/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  368		  1960 SCR  (2) 289ACT:Election  Petition- Amendment of-Petition alleging  improperacceptance  of nomination--Amendment introducing  ground  ofnoncompliance  with  Provisions--Whether  can  be   allowed-Discretion  of Election Tribunal-lnterference by High  Courtin  appeal-Representation  of the People Act,  1951  (43  of1951), ss. 33(3) and 100HEADNOTE:The  appellant held an office under the Government  and	 wasdismissed  from	 service on January 24, 1956, for  a  reasonother than corruption or disloyalty to the State.  He  filedhis  nomination paper for election to Parliament  which	 didnot disclose any disqualifications.  No objection was  takento  the	 nomination and it was accepted without	 making	 anyenquiry.   After  the poll the appellant was  declared	dulyelected.    The	 respondent  filed  an	 election   petitionchallenging  the  election of the appellant on	the  ground,inter  alia, that the nomination of the appellant  had	beenimproperly  accepted  as he was	 dismissed  from  Governmentservice	 and he had failed to obtain a certificate from	 theElection  Commission  that  he had not	been  dismissed	 forcorruption or disloyalty to the State.	After limitation forfiling	the petition had expired, the respondent applied  tothe Election Tribunal for amendment of the petition  seekingto  add	 to this ground the statement  that  the  nominationpaper  was  not accompanied by the  prescribed	certificate.The Tribunal disallowed the amendment on the ground that theamendment sought to introduce a290new ground after the period of limitation and then dismissedthe  election  petition	 holding  that	the  appellant	 wasqualified  to stand for the election and his nomination	 wasnot improperly accepted. On appeal, the High Court held thatthe  amendment should have been allowed as it  merely  askedfor a clarification and not the introduction of a new groundand consequently it set aside tile order of the Tribunal anddirected  a  retrial of the issue involving.  The  appellantobtained special leave and appealed.Held,  that the amendment could not be allowed as it  soughtto  introduce a new ground in the petition after the  periodof  limitation.	 The ground taken in the petition  was	thatthere  was an improper acceptance of the nomination  coveredby s. 100(1)(d)(1) of the Representation of the People	Act,1951.	 But  there  was  no  improper	acceptance  of	 thenomination  for	 the  nomination  paper	 ex  facie  did	 notdisclose  any  defect or disqualification.  There  being  nosubsisting  prayer  seeking  to raise the  ground  under  s.100(1)(d)(iv)  for non-compliance with the Provisions of  s.33(3) of the Act, the amendment was foreign to the scope  ofthe, enquiry under the ground covered by s. 100(1)(d)(1).Durga  Shankar	Mehta  v. Thakur Raghuraj  Singh,  [1955]  1S.C.R. 267 and Harish Chandra Bajpai v. Triloki Singh [1957]S.C.R. 370, followed.Veluswami v. Raja Nainay, A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 422, referred to.There  was  no jurisdiction in the High Court  to  interferewith  the  discretion of the Election Tribunal	refusing  toallow  the  amendment after the entire	petition  had  -beendisposed  of.  It is undesirable for an appellate  Court  tointerfere  with the order of a subordinate Tribunal made  inthe exercise of its discretion without exceeding the  limitsof its powers, unless it has acted perversely or has taken aview which is clearly wrong.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 301 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember  10,  1958, of the Allahabad High Court,  in  FirstAppeal	No.  382 of 1958, arising out of  the  judgment	 andorder  dated  August  6, 1958,	of  the	 Election  Tribunal,Kanpur, in Election Petition No. 284 of 1957.N. C. Chatterjee, R. K. Garg, S. C. Agarwal, D. P. Singh, V.A. Sayid Muhammad Janardan Sharma and M.     K.	 Ramamurthi,for the appellant.A.   V.	  Viswanatha  Sastri  and  K.  P.  Gupta,  for	 therespondent.			    2911959.  November 20.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySUBBA  RAO  J.-This  appeal by	special	 leave	is  directedagainst	 the  judgment of the High Court  of  Judicature  atAllahabad,  setting  aside that of  the	 Election  Tribunal,Kanpur, dismissing the petition filed by the respondent	 forsetting aside the election of, the appellant as a member  ofthe Parliament from the Kanpur constituency.In  February-March  1957, elections were held to fill  up  aparliamentary  seat from the single-member constituency	 No.331,  Kanpur.  Sri S. M. Banerji, Sri Suraj Prasad and	fourothers	were  candidates for the said  election.   The	saidpersons filed their nomination papers between 19th and	29thJanuary, 1957.	The appellant was employed as  Supervisor'A'Grade at the Government Ammunition Factory, Kirkee, and	 wasdismissed  from	 service on January 24, 1956, for  a  reasonother than corruption or disloyalty to the state; and he wasduly qualified to stand for the election.  He also filed hisnomination paper within the prescribed time and ex facie  itcomplied  with all the provisions of the  Representation  ofthe  People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), as amended by Act  XXVIIof 1956, (hereinafter called the Act), and did not  discloseany disqualifications.	The Returning Officer held  scrutinyof  the	 nomination  papers  on February  1,  1957.   As  noobjection  was	taken  to the  appellant's  nomination,	 theReturning Officer accepted it under s. 36 of the Act withoutmaking	any  enquiry.  The polling took place  on  March  6,1957,  and the result was declared on March 13,	 1957.	 Theappellant  having secured the largest member of	 votes,	 wasdeclared duly -elected.	 On April 24, 1957, the	 respondent,who is one of the voters in the said constituency, presenteda  petition  before  the  Election  Commission,	 New  Delhi,praying that the election of the appellant be declared void.In  the	 petition  he alleged ten  grounds  to	sustain	 hispetition.   The Election Commission constituted an  ElectionTribunal  in the manner prescribed by the Act  and  referredthe  petition to the said Tribunal for trial.  On  July	 17,1957, i.e., after the prescribed period292of  limitation of 45 days had expired, the respondent  filedan application for amendment of the election petition.	 Theamendments sought to be made in the	election    petitionwere as follows:"(a)  In paragraph No. 5 clause 'i', figure '9' between	 thewords  'under section' and 'clause' is a typing mistake	 forfigure '33'.  In place of figure(9)  figure '33' be substituted.(b)  In paragraph No. 5(d) at the end of the paragraph,	 thefollowing sentence be added:"The nomination paper of the respondent presented before theReturning  Officer was not accompanied by a  certificate  ofthe  Election Commission to the effect that he has not	beendismissed  for	disloyalty  or	corruption.   The   improperacceptance  of	the  nomination	 paper	being  that  of	 thereturned  candidate, there is a presumption that the  resultof the election has been materially affected".On August 3, 1957, the respondent filed another	 applicationfor   amendment	  seeking  the	second	amendment,   in	  anabbreviated form.  The proposed amendment was as follows:"  (b)	In paragraph No. 5(d) at the end of  paragraph,	 thefollowing sentence be added in the petition :"  and such a certificate did not accompany  the  nominationpaper of the respondent and the acceptance of his nominationpaper materially affected the result of the election."By  an	order dated August 12, 1957, the  Election  Tribunaldismissed  the	petition on the -round that  the  amendmentssought to introduce a new ground after the prescribed periodof  limitation, and therefore it had no power to  allow	 thesame.	After dismissing the application, the Tribunal	tookup  the main petition for disposal and, after recording	 thefindings  on  the  issues raised, dismissed  the  same	withcosts.	 Against the said judgment the respondent  preferredan  appeal  under  s. 116A of the Act  to  the	High  Court.Before	 the  High  Court  the	learned	 Counsel   for	 therespondent, withdrew the prayer for amendment of			    293sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (5) of the election  petitionand  confined his relief only to the amendment asked for  inparagraph 5(d) of the election petition, i.e., he sought  tobring  in the amendment under the head "improper  acceptanceof  the	 nomination paper".  The High Court  found,  on	 theconstruction of the pleadings, that the allegations found inthe  original petition were sufficient to bring in the	caseunder  s.  100(1)(d)(i)	 of the Act  i.e.,  under  the	head"improper  acceptance", and, therefore, the amendment  askedfor  was only a clarification but not an introduction  of  anew  ground:  in the result, the High Court  set  aside	 theorder  of the Tribunal and directed it to decide the  issuesthat  arose  out of the averment made in the  amended  para.5(d) of the election petition.	The present appeal was filedby  special  leave  against the said judgment  of  the	HighCourt.The   contentions  of  the  learned  Counsel,  Mr.   N.	  C.Chatterjee,  for the appellant may be briefly put thus:	 Theground	for  relief in the election petition  was  based  onimproper acceptance of the appellant's nomination within themeaning	 of  s. 100(1)(d)(i) of the Act and  no	 alternativeground	tinder sub-cl.(iv) of cl.(d) s. 100(1) was  alleged.There  was  proper acceptance of the nomination	 paper	and,therefore,  the High Court or the Tribunal had no  power  tointroduce by amendment a new ground, namely, that the resultof  the	 election had been materially affected by  the	non-compliance with the provisions of the Act, and	particularlywhen the ground based upon s. 33 of the Act. was given up bythe respondent.He relies upon for the first proposition on the decision  ofthis  Court in Durga Shankar Mehta v. Thakur Raghuraj  Singh(1)  and  for the second on the decision of  this  Court  inHarish Chandra Bajpai v. Triloki Singh (2).Mr.  A.	 V. Viswanatha Sastry, the learned Counsel  for	 therespondent,  contends  that  the  said	two  decisions	werewrongly	 decided and require reconsideration, and  that,  inany event, the amendment asked for clearly falls within	 thescope of the later decision.  He(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 267.(2) [1957] S.C.R. 370.38294further	 contends  that, on a fair reading of  the  relevantallegations  in	 the petition as  originally  presented,  itwould be clear that the respondent stated all the  necessaryfacts  to sustain the ground he had taken in  the  amendmentpetition,  and that by the amendment he was only seeking  toclarify	 the said ground.  In any  view, he argues that	 theappellate  Court on a careful construction of the  pleadingshas  held that the petition in substance disclosed the	saidground; and the question of correctness of the said decisiondoes   not  legitimately  fall	within	 the   discretionaryjurisdiction   of   this  Court	 under	Art.  136   of	 theConstitution.At  the	 outset the relevant provisions of the	Act  may  benoticed.  The said provisions read:S.   9	(3)  : " If any question is raised as to  whether  aperson who, having held any office referred to in clause  (f)of section 7, has been dismissed is disqualified under thatclause	for  being  chosen as a member of  either  House  ofParliament  or	of the Legislative Assembly  or	 LegislativeCouncil	 of a State, the production of a certificate  issuedin  the prescribed manner by the Election Commission to	 theeffect	 that  such  person  has  not  been  dismissed	 forcorruption  or disloyalty to the State shall  be  conclusiveproof that -he is not disqualified under that clause."S.   33	 (3): " Where the candidate is a person who,  havingheld any office referred-to in clause (f) of section 7,	 hasbeen  dismissed and a period of five years has	not  elapsedsince  the dismissal, such person shall not be deemed to  beduly nominated as a candidate unless his nomination paper isaccompanied by a certificate issued in the prescribed mannerby  the	 Election Commission to the effect that he  has	 notbeen dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the State."S.   36:  "  (1)  On  the date fixed  for  the	scrutiny  ofnominations under section 30, the candidates, their electionagents, one proposer of each candidate, and one other personduly authorized in writing by each candidate, but no otherperson , may attend at such295time and place as the returning officer may appoint; and thereturning officer shall give them all reasonable  facilitiesfor examining the nomination papers of all candidates  whichhave  been delivered within the time and in the manner	laiddown in section 33.(2) The returning officer shall then examine the  nominationpapers and shall decide all objections which may be made  toany nomination, and may, either on such objection or on	 hisown motion, after such summary inquiry, if any, as he thinksnecessary,  reject  any nomination on any of  the  followinggrounds:-(a)  *			 *	   *(b)  that there has been a failure to comply with any of theprovisions of section 33 or section 34; or(c)  *			      *		*S.   100: (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section	(2),if the Tribunal is of opinion-*		      *		       *(d)  that  the	result	of the election, in  so	 far  as  itconcerns a returned candidate, has been materially affected-(i)  by the improper acceptance of any nomination, or(iv) by	 any  non-compliance  with  the	 provisions  of	 theConstitution or of this Act or of any other rules or  ordersunder  this Act,the  Tribunal  shall declare the election  of  the  returnedcandidate  to  be  void.The  foregoing provisions, so far  relevent to	the  presentenquiry,  may  be summarised thus: If a candidate  has	beendismissed from Government service and a period of five yearshas not elapsed since dismissal-, he will have to file alongwith  the  nomination  paper a	certificate  issued  in	 theprescribed  manner by the Election Commission to the  effectthat he has not been dismissed for corruption or  disloyaltyto  the	 State.	  If it has not	 been  done,  the  ReturningOfficer,  either  suo motu or on objections  raised  by	 theopposite  party,  has  to reject  the  nomination.   If	 thenomination  paper does not disclose any such defect  and  ifthe296Returning  Officer has no knowledge of that fact, he has  nooption but to accept the nomination.  The Returning  Officermay improperly accept a nomination paper     though	  itdiscloses the said defect and though an	     objection	  israised	 to   its  reception  on   that	  ground.    Section100(1)(d)(i)  of the Act deals with improper  acceptance  ofany nomination and s. 100(1)(d)(iv) permits an attack on theground, among others, of non-compliance with the  provisionsof the Act.Before we consider the contentions of the parties, it  wouldbe  convenient	to  appreciate the true	 scope	of  the	 twodecisions  of  this  court in the  light  of  the  argumentsadvanced by the learned Counsel.  The first -decision is  inDurga  Shankar	Mehta v. Thakur Raghuraj  Singh	 (1).	Thisdecision turns upon the provisions of sub-s. (1)(c) and sub-s. (2)(c) of s. 100 of the Representation of the People Act,1951  before  it was amended by Act XXVII of  1956.   Sub-s.(1)(c) and sub-s. (2)(c), in so far as they are material  tothe present discussion correspond to s. 100(1)(d)(i) and  s.100(1)(d)(iv)  respectively of the amended Act.	  This	casearose  out  of an election held in December, 1951,  for	 thedouble member Lakhnadon Legislative Assembly Constituency inMadhya	Pradesh,  one  of  the	seats  being  reserved	 forScheduled Tribes.  The appellant and respondents 1, 3,5	 and7  therein  were duly nominated candidates for	the  generalseat  in the said constituency, while respondents Nos. 2,  4and  6 were nominated for the reserved seat.   No  objectionwas  taken before the Returning Officer in respect  _of	 thenomination of either the appellant or respondent No. 2.	 Theappellant and respondent No. 2 were declared elected to	 thegeneral and reserved seat respectively.	 The respondent	 No.1  filed an election petition against the appellant and	 theother  respondents for setting aside the election as  whollyvoid.  One of the allegations was that the respondent No. 2,was,  at all material times, under 25 years of age  and	 wasconsequently  not qualified to be chosen to fill a  seat  inthe  Legislative Assembly of a State under Art. 173  of	 theConstitution.  The Election Tribunal held that the(1)  (1955) 1 S.C.R. 267.			    297acceptance  by	the Returning Officer of the  nomination  ofrespondent  No.	 2  amounted to an  improper  acceptance  ofnomination  within the meaning of s. 100(1)(c) of  the	Act,and  on	 that ground declared that the entire  election	 wasvoid.	The candidate, who was elected to the  general	seatpreferred  an  appeal to this Court and contended  that	 hisnomination  had	 been  properly accepted  by  the  ReturningOfficer	 and,  therefore, if respondent No. 2 was  not	dulyqualified  to  be  elected, his	 election  alone  should  bedeclared void on the ground that such disqualification shallfall  under  sub-s., (2)(c) of s. 100 and not  under  sub-s.(1)(c)	thereof	 This Court accepted the contention  and  inthat  context defined the import of " improper acceptance  "within	the meaning of s. 100(1)(c) of the Act.	  Mukherjea,J.,  as	 he then was, delivering the judgment of  the  Courtobserved at p. 277:"  If  the  want of qualification of a	candidate  does	 notappear	on  the	 face  of the nomination  paper	 or  of	 theelectoral  roll, but is a matter which could be	 establishedonly by evidence, an enquiry at the stage of scrutiny of thenomination papers is required under the Act only if there isany  objection to the nomination.  The Returning-Officer  isthen  bound to make such enquiry as he thinks proper on	 theresult	of  which  he  can  either  accept  or	reject	 thenomination.   But when the candidate appears to be  properlyqualified  on  the  face  of  the  electoral  roll  and	 thenomination   paper  and	 no  objection	is  raised  to	 thenomination,  the Returning Officer has no other	 alternativebut to accept the nomination.  'This would be apparent	fromsection 36, subsection (7) of the Act . . .".The learned Judge proceeded to state at p. 278:" It would have been an improper acceptance, if the want  ofqulification was apparent on the electoral roll itself or onthe  face of the nomination paper and the Returning  Officeroverlooked  that defect or if any objection was	 raised	 andenquiry	 made  as  to the absence of  qualification  in	 thecandidate  and	the  Returning	Officer	 came  to  a   wrongconclusion on the materials placed before him.	When neither298of   these   things   happened,	 the   acceptance   of	 thenomination by the Returning Officer must be  deemed to be  aproper acceptance."This  judgment,	 therefore,  is a clear	 authority  for	 theproposition  that  if  the want of  qualification  does	 notappear	on  the	 face  of the nomination  paper	 and  if  noobjection  is  raised on that ground  before  the  ReturningOfficer, the acceptance of the nomination must be deemed  tobe a proper acceptance.Mr.  A.V.  Viswanatha Sastry, the learned  Counsel  for	 therespondent,  attacks  the  correctness	of  this   decision.Broadly stated, his criticism is that the proceedings beforethe Returning Officer are summary proceeding,, and that	 theelection  petition  is not an appeal from the order  of	 theReturning  Officer, but is an original petition	 seeking  toset  aside  the	 election and that in such  a  petition	 theaggrieved  party  has  the right to seek to  set  aside	 theelection on all or any of the grounds mentioned in s. 100 ofthe  Act  and that, as one of the grounds  is  the  improperacceptance  of the nomination paper, he could  establish  byevidence  that	the  acceptance of  the	 nomination  by	 theReturning  Officer  was in the derogation of  the  statutoryprovisions,  such  as  those  relating	to  the	 absence  ofqualification  in  the	candidate  or  the  filing  of	 hisnomination  paper unaccompanied by a certificate within	 themeaning	 of  s.	 33(3)	of the	Act.   In  support  of	thiscontention reliance is placed upon another decision of	thisCourt in Veluswami v. Raja Nainar (1).	The point raised anddecided	 in  that  case was whether an	enquiry	 before	 theElection Tribunal was not restricted to the material  placedbefore	the Returning Officer relating to a ground, but	 allevidence bearing on that ground could be adduced before thatTribunal.  There unlike here, at the time of scrutiny of thenominations  objection	was taken to the nomination  of	 thecandidate  on the ground that he was the Head Master of	 theNational  Training School, Tiruchendur, which was a  Govern-ment-aided  school, and therefore be was disqualified  unders. 7, cls. (d) and (e) of the Act.  The Returning(1)  A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 422.			    299Officer	 upheld the objection.	In a petition to  set  asidethe  election,	the  returned  candidate  pleaded  that	 thecandidate whose nomination was rejected was not qualified tobe  chosen not merely on the ground put forward	 before	 theReturning  Officer  but also on other grounds.	 This  Courtheld that. it is open to a party to put forward all  groundsin  support  or negation of the claim subject only  to	suchlimitations as may be found in the Act, notwithstanding thatsome  of  the grounds were not taken  before  the  ReturningOfficer.  The reason for the decision is found at p. 426 andit reads :" An election petition is an original proceeding  institutedby  the	 presentation  of  a petition under  s.	 81  of	 theAct...........	All  the parties have the  right  to  adduceevidence  and  that  is	 of  the  essence  of  an   originalproceeding  as	contrasted  with a  proceeding,	 by  way  ofappeal.	  That being the character of the  proceedings,	 therule  applicable  is  that which governs the  trial  of	 alloriginal proceedings; that is, it is open to a party to	 putforward all grounds in support of or negation of the  claim,subject	 only  to such limitations as may be  found  in	 theAct."The learned Judge elaborated the point at a subsequent stageof the judgment thus:" The enquiry which a returning officer has to make under S.36  is	summary in character.  He may make  "  such  summaryenquiry,  if any, as he thinks necessary "; be can  act	 suomotu.  Such being the nature of the enquiry, the right whichis  given to a party under S. 100(1)(c) and S.	100(1)(d)(i)to  challenge  the  propriety of an order  of  rejection  oracceptance  of a nomination paper would become illusory,  ifthe  Tribunal is to base its decision only on the  materialsplaced before the returning officer."When the attention of the Court was invited to the  decisionin  Durga  Shankar Mehta v. Thakur  Raghuraj  Singh(1),	 theCourt distinguished that decision in the following manner:"  This	 is not a direct pronouncement on the point  now  incontroversy, and that is conceded."(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 267.300The two decisions can stand together and they deal with	 twodifferent  situations  :  in the former,  no  objection	 wasraised	 at   all   to	the   nomination,   while   in	 thelatter	 an   objection	 was  raised  on   the	 ground	  ofdisqualification;  but in the election	petition  additionalgrounds	 of disqualification were alleged and sought to	  beproved: one is concerned with a case of improper  acceptanceand  the  other with a case of improper	 rejection.   Thoughsome of the observations in the later decision may well havebeen  advanced	to  come to a  contrary	 conclusion  in	 theearlier	 decision, Venkatarama Ayyar, J., who was  party  toboth  the  decisions, distinguished the earlier one  on	 theground	that  it  was  not a  direct  pronouncement  on	 thequestion raised in the later.  The earlier decision is	thatof  five  Judges  but the later is  of	three  Judges.	 Thelearned Judges, who decided the later case, did not see	 anyconflict between their decision and that of the earlier one.Though	there is some force in the argument advanced by	 Mr.A.  V. Viswanatha Sastry, and, if it were res integra,	someof us might be inclined not to agree with the reasoning	 andthe conclusion of the earlier judgment, this Court is  boundby its earlier decision and we do not see any  justificationto refer the question to a larger bench, particularly as  wehave  come  to the conclusion that the High  Court  was	 notjustified  in  interfering  with the  order  passed  by	 theTribunal   in  its  discretion	disallowing   the   materialamendment.The second case is a decision of four Judges and it  definesthe  powers  of	 the  Election Tribunal	 in  the  matter  ofamendment  of pleadings.  This decision also turns upon	 therelevant provisions of Act 43 of 1951 before it was  amendedby  Act	 27 of 1956.  Section 83(3) of the  Act	 before	 theamendment  corresponds to s. 90(5) of the amended  Act.	  Inother  respects, so far, as it is material to  the  questionraised, no change has been introduced in the other  relevantsections.  In this case, the respondent in the appeal  filedan  election  petition	challenging  the  election  of	 theappellants  to the U.P. Legislative Assembly on	 the  groundthat they had committed corrupt practices, the material301allegations  being, (i) that the appellants " could  in	 thefurtherance of their election enlist the support of  certainGovernment servants ", and (ii) that the appellant No. 1 hademployed two persons in excess of the prescribed number	 forhis  election purposes.	 No list of particulars	 of  corruptpractices  was	attached to the petition.   Long  after	 theperiod	of limitation prescribed for the filing of  electionpetitions,  the	 respondent  applied for  amendment  of	 hispetition  by  adding the names of  certain  village  Headmen(Mukhias)  as having worked for the appellants and later  onbecoming  their	 polling  agents.   The	 Election   Tribunalallowed	 the  amendment on the ground that  the	 allegationssought	 to  be	 introduced  by	 the  amendment	 were	mereparticulars  of	 the  charge  already  made.   Holding	thatcorrupt	 practice had been committed by the  appellants,  itdeclared their election void under s. 100(2)(b) of the	Act.The  appellants	 preferred an appeal against that  order  tothis  Court and contended that the Election Tribunal had  nopower  either under s. 83(3) of the Act or under  Order	 VI,rule  17  of  the  Code of  Civil  Procedure  to  allow	 theamendment.    In  that	context,  this	 Court	 elaboratelyconsidered  the scope of the power of the Election  Tribunalto amend the pleadings in an election dispute and summarizedits views in the following two propositions, at p. 392:"  (1)	Under  s.  83(3) the Tribunal  has  power  to  allowparticulars in respect of illegal or corrupt practices to beamended, provided the petition itself specifies the  groundsor  charges,  and  this	 power	extends	 to  permitting	 newinstances to be given.(2)  The  Tribunal  has power under 0. VI, r.  17  to  orderamendment of a petition, but that power cannot be  exercisedso as to permit new grounds or charges to be raised or to soalter  its  character  as  to make it  in  substance  a	 newpetition, if a fresh petition on those allegations will thenbe barred."On the basis of those propositions this Court held that	 thepetition  as  originally presented did not allege  that	 theappellants  had committed corrupt practices and,  therefore,that the allegations sought to be introduced39	  302by the amendment, namely, that two village Headmen s. workedfor the appellants and later on became their polling agents,so  radically  altered	the character  of  the	petition  asoriginally framed as to make it practically a new  petition,and so it was not within the power of the Tribunal to  allowamendments of that kind. Even if the Tribunal had the  powerunder 0. VI, r. 17 of the Code of Civil Procedure to  permitan  amendment raising a new charge, the Court held  that  itdid  not  under	 the  circumstances  exercise  a  sound	 andjudicial discretion in permitting the amendment in question.It may be noticed that in that case the question turned uponthe construction of s. 83, sub-ss. (2) and (3), of the	Act.Though in that case this Court was concerned with the powersof  an	Election Tribunal to amend the petition	 beyond	 theperiod of limitation, the discussion of the Court covered  awider  field,  presumably,  because the	 Court	intended  tosettle the principles	 governing  the	 power	of  ElectionTribunals  to  amend  pleadings	 with  a  view	to   preventconfusion  and	to  stabilize  the  procedure.	This   Courtrejected  the  argument	 that  0. VI, r.  17  of  the  CivilProcedure Code, does not apply to election petitions. It wasobserved at p. 389:"  We are accordingly of opinion that the application of  0.VI,  r. 17, Civil Procedure Code to the	 proceedings  beforethe Tribunal is not excluded by s. 83(3)."It was contended for the appellant in that case that even ifs.  83(3) of the Act did not exclude the application  of  0.VI,  r. 17, Civil Procedure Code, to the proceedings  beforethe  Tribunal,	the exercise of the power  under  that	rulemust, nevertheless, be subject to the conditions  prescribedby s. 81 for presentation of an election petition, that	 oneof  those conditions was that it should be presented  withinthe   time  allowed  therefor,	and  that  accordingly,	  noamendment  should be allowed which would have the effect  ofdefeating  that	 provision. After  considering	the  Englishdecisions on the statutory provisions which are pari materiawith  our  enactments,	the Court  held	 that  the  ElectionTribunal had no power to permit a new ground to be303raised beyond the time of limitation prescribed by s. 81  ofthe  Act.   Mr. A. V. Viswanatha Sastry contended  that	 thelearned	 Judges,  having rightly conceded the power  of	 theElection Tribunal to amend the pleadings under 0. VI, r. 17,Civil  Procedure Code, went wrong in limiting that power  inthe  way they did, and that the reason advanced by  them  inlimiting  that power equally applies to the pleadings  in  asuit,  for,  it is said, under the  Indian  Limitation	Act,every suit filed beyond the prescribed period of  limitationshall  be dismissed although limitation has not been set  upas  a  defence.	  There	 is no	doubt  some  force  in	thiscontention, but this argument was presumably advanced beforethe learned Judges and was negatived on the following groundstated at p. 392:" The Tribunal sought to get over this difficulty by relyingon   the  principle  well-established  with   reference	  toamendments  under 0. VI, r. 17 that the fact that a suit  onthe claim sought to be raised would be barred on the date ofthe  application  would be a material  element	in  decidingwhether it should be allowed or not but would not affect thejurisdiction of the court to grant it in exceptional circum-stances	 as laid down in Charan Das v. Amir Khan  (1).	 Butthis  is to ignore the restriction imposed by s. 90(2)	thatthe procedure of the court under the Code of Civil Procedurein  which 0. VI, r. 17 is comprised, is to apply subject  tothe provisions of the Act and the rules, and there being  nopower  conferred  on the Tribunal to extend  the  period  oflimitation  prescribed, an order of amendment  permitting  anew ground to be raised beyond the time limited by s. 81 andr.   119  must	contravene  those  provisions  and  is,	  inconsequence,  beyond the ambit of authority conferred by  s.90(2)."This passage indicates that the learned Judges were aware ofthe  argument now advanced and, for the reason mentioned  bythem, namely, that unlike a civil suit wherein the Court canextend	the  period  of limitation in  a  proper  case,	 theTribunal has no such power, rejected the argument.  We	,arebound by this decision,(1)  (1920) L.R. 47 I.A. 255.304As   this  stage,  we  must  guard  against   one   possiblemisapprehension.  Courts and Tribunals are constituted to dojustice between the parties within the confines of statutorylimitations,   and  undue  emphasis  on	 technicalities	  orenlarging  their  scope would cramp their  powers,  diminishtheir  effectiveness and defeat		  the  very  purposefor which they are constituted.	 We must make it clear	thatwithin the limits prescribed by the decisions of this  Courtthe discretionary jurisdiction of the Tribunals to amend thepleadings  is  as extensive as that of a civil	Court.	 Thesame  well-settled  principles laid down in  the  matter  ofamendments  to the pleadings in a suit should also  regulatethe exercise of the power of amendment by a Tribunal..	Thisaspect	has not been ignored by this Court in the  aforesaiddecision, and the Court observed, at p. 394:"  It  is  no doubt true that pleadings should	not  be	 toostrictly  construed,  and that regard should be had  to	 thesubstance of the matter and not the form."The  foregoing discussion yelds the following  results:	 (1)Sub-cls.  (i) and (iv-) of s. 100(11)(d) of the Act  providefor two distinct grounds the former for the case of improperacceptance  of	any nomination, and the latter for  that  ofnon-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or ofthe  Act, or of any rules or orders made under the Act;	 (2)when  the candidate appears to be properly qualified on	 theface  of the electoral roll and the nomination paper and  noobjection is raised to the nomination, the acceptance of thesaid  nomination by the Returning Officer must be deemed  tobe  proper  acceptance	;  (3) even if	there  is  a  properacceptance,  it	 is open to the petitioner to  question	 thevalidity  of the election -under s. 100(1)(d)(iv)  on  othergrounds,  namely,  that the candidate whose  nomination	 wasaccepted was not qualified at all or could not be deemed  tobe duly nominated as a candidate for the reason that he	 didnot  comply with the provisions of s. 33(3) of the Act;	 and(4)  if the second ground in substance is not taken  in	 thepetition-substance is more important than form-the  Tribunalhas  no power after the prescribed period of limitation	 forthe filing305of the petition to allow an amendment introducing the secondground.With  this  background we shall proceed	 to  scrutinize	 thepleadings  in  the  light of  the  rival  contentions.	 Theelection  petition  contains seven paragraphs.	 The  reliefclaimed	 is  that  the election of the	appellant  from	 theparliamentary  constituency  No. 331,  Kanpur,	be  declaredvoid.	The  first paragraph  gives the credentials  of	 thepetitioner to enable him to file the petition.	Paragraphs 2and  3	give  the  sequence of events  which  ended  in	 thedeclaration  of	 the  appellant as  duly  elected  from	 theconstituency to the Parliament.	 Paragraph 5 states that theelection  of the appellant is void and is liable to  be	 setaside  on the ten grounds, among others, specified  therein.Paragraph  6 states that the cause of action accrued to	 thepetitioner on or about January 29, 1957, when the nominationpapers	were  filed for the said  election,  and  subsequentthereto.  Now coming to the grounds in sub-para(a), (b)	 and(c)  of	 para 5, it is stated that the ,appellant  had	beendismissed   by	Government  from  service  on	charges	  ofdisloyalty and gross misconduct on January 24, 1956, but  hedid not submit to the aid order and filed a writ petition inthe  High Court at Calcutta questioning the validity of	 thesaid  order,  that  under the circumstances,  he  should  bedeemed to be a Government servant and, therefore, he was notcompetent  to  be nominated as a candidate for	election  toParliament.    Sub-paragraph  (d)  is  the  most   importantparagraph  to  the present enquiry and therefore it  may  beextracted in full.  It reads:" That apart from the above mentioned reasons the nominationpaper of the respondent was also improperly accepted by	 theReturning Officer, in-asmuch-as, the respondent having	beendismissed   from  Government  Service  did  not	  obtain   acertificate  in	 the  prescribed manner	 from  the  ElectionCommission to the effect that he had not been dismissed	 forcorruption or disloyalty to the State."This sub-paragraph in clear and unambiguous terms raises theground of improper acceptance of the nomination paper by theReturning Officer i.e., the ground306covered	 by  s.	 100(1)(d)(i) of the Act.   The	 reason	 forsustaining the said ground is stated to be that, having beendismissed    from   Government	 service,   he	  did	 notobtain	a  certificate	in the prescribed  manner  from	 theElection   Commission.	  Ex   facie   this    sub-paragraphdoes  not refer to s. 33(3) or to the contents of that	sub-section.   A  nomination  paper	 may  be  accepted  by	 theReturning Officer in spite of one or other of the  followingtwo  defects: (i) the candidate who has been  dismissed	 mayhave   filed  the  nomination  -paper  without	 its   beingaccompanied by a certificate issued in the prescribed mannerby  the	 Election Commission to the effect that he  has	 notbeen dismissed from service for corruption or dis loyalty tothe  State: vide s. 33(3); and (ii) the candidate  has	beendisqualified  for  being chosen as a member  of	 Parliament:vide s. 9(3).  In this subparagraph in support of the groundthat   the  nomination	of  the	 appellant  was	  improperlyaccepted, reference was made to the second defect and not tothe  first.  That this must have been the intention  of	 therespondent is also made clear from the circumstance that  insub-para  (i) reference was made to the	 latter	 sub-sectionbut not to the former.	The argument that the opening  wordsof  sub-para  (d), " That apart ", indicate that this  is  aground in addition to the ground based on the  non-obtainingof  a certificate in the prescribed manner, and,  therefore,should only refer to the non-accompaniment of a certificate,has no force; for, sub-paras (a), (b) and (c), which precedesub-para  (d)  raise a different point	altogether,  namely,that  notwithstanding  the dismissal, as the  appellant	 hadfiled a petition in the High Court questioning the  validityof the order of dismissal, he was still a Government servanton  the crucial date.  Be it as it may, the important  pointto  be	noticed is that sub-paragraph (d)  raises  a  groundunder sub-cl. (i) and not under subcl. (iv) of s.  100(1)(d)of  the	 Act, and even if the facts  mentioned	therein	 aredisannexed   from  the	ground,	 they  refer  only  to	 thedisqualification  of the appellant to stand as	a  candidatefor the election and not to the procedural defect covered bys. 33(3) of the Act.  Subparagraphs (e), (f) and (g)  relateto the objections307which  are  not	 material for  the  present  inquiry.	Sub-paragraph   (h)	 contains  a  general  statement  that	 theappellant  was disqualified to be chosen to fill the  parli-mentary	 seat.	Sub-paragraph (i) specifically refers to  s.9(3)  of  the  Act.   We are not  also	concerned  with	 theallegations in -sub-para (j).The foregoing analysis of the allegations in the petition sofar  as they are relevant to the question raised,  disclosesthe  following two circumstances : (i) the ground  taken  inthe  petition was that there was an improper  acceptance  ofthe  nomination	 covered by s. 100(1)(d)(i) for	 the  reasonthat  the appellant, having been dismissed  from  Governmentservice,  did  not obtain a certificate	 in  the  prescribedmanner; and (ii) there was no ground which would fall  undersub-cl.	 (iv)  of s. 100(1)(d) of the Act.  viz.,  that	 theappellant  was	not to be deemed to be duly nominated  as  acandidate  as his nomination paper was not accompanied by  acertificate issued in the prescribed manner by the  ElectionCommission to the effect that he had not been dismissed	 forcorruption  or disloyalty to the State.	 In the	 applicationfor amendment which was filed after the prescribed period oflimitation,  two amendments were asked for-one	to  sub-para(i)  of para 5 and the other to sub-para (d)  thereof.	 Theformer was for substituting the figure " 33 " for the figure"  9  "	 and the latter to introduce  a	 statement  in	thatparagraph  to the effect that the nomination paper  was	 notaccompanied  by the prescribed certificate.  The  subsequentpetition,  as we have already noticed, sought for  the	sameamendment  to para (5)(d) in an abbreviated form.  But	whatis  important to notice is that even the proposed  amendmentsought	to bring in the said statement under the  ground  of"improper  acceptance" and not under s. 100(1)(d)(i) of	 theAct.  The appellant filed a counter-affidavit opposing	boththe  amendments.  The Tribunal noticed the judgment of	thisCourt-and  applied the principles laid down therein  to	 thefacts	before-it.   It	 also  considered  in	detail	 theallegations  in	 the petition and arrived at  the  followingfindings:  (i) " All what has been urged throughout is	thatthe respondent was a Government servant or a308dismissed Government servant and no certificate having	beenobtained from the Election Commission	about his  dismissalnot being for corruption or disloyalty, he was not  eligiblefor election as a candidate   to the House of the People  ",and  (ii)  sub-section (3)  of s. 33 which  is	a  provisionlaying down a certain procedure was never in the mind of thepetitioner while the petition was being drafted or prepared,and that is why we find no reference to the certificate	 notbeing  filed  with the nomination paper." He  concludes	 hisdiscussion thus :"It  would  thus be seen that the amendment  sought  by	 thepetitioner offends against the conditions laid down by theirlordships  of the Supreme Court in Harish Chandra Bajpai  v.Triloki	 Singh (1) relating to the application of Order	 VI,rule 17 of the Civil Procedure Code to proceedings before anElettion Tribunal.  It has been specifically laid down	thatan  amendment will not be allowed if the effect of it be  topermit	a new ground or charge to be raised or to  so  alterits  character	as to make it in substance a  new  petition.That would exactly be the effect of the amendment sought  bythe petitionerIt will be seen, therefore, that the Tribunal has put beforeitself	the  correct  principles  governing  its  powers  ofamendment and found, on a construction of the allegations inthe petition, that by the proposed amendment, the respondentwas  seeking to introduce a new ground after the  period  oflimitation.   This  order was made by the  Tribunal  in	 theexercise  of  its discretion in strict conformity  with	 theprinciples laid down by this Court.The next question is whether the High Court was justified insetting	 aside	that order.  It was argued before  the	HighCourt that the amendment application was wrongly refused andthat  even  as	the  election  petition	 stood	without	 theamendment it contained sufficient averment of facts to	makeout  a ground under s. 100(1)(d)(i) of the Act, and  in	 thealternative that it made out a ground under s. 100(1)(d)(iv)of the(1)  (1957) S.C.R.370.309Act.   Before  the High Court the learned  Counsel  for	 therespondent  withdrew  his prayer for the amendment  of	sub-para(1) of para 5 of the election petition; with the  resultthe  only  paragraph  on which reliance was  placed  by	 therespondent  was sub-para (d) of para 5. The High Court	alsonoticed	 the  judgment	of  this  Court	 in  Harish  ChandraBajpai's  Case (1) and posed the following question for	 itsdecision:"  The important thing is whether in substance the  petitioncontains the particular ground of attack or not."It proceeded to consider whether the original subpara (d) ofpara 5 contained any ground and if so, what?: and whether  anew  ground  was  sought  to be raised in  the	garb  of  anamendment.   After reading the said sub-para,  it  expressedthe  view that the ground, in its opinion, would fall  unders. 100(1)(d)(i) of the Act; and that conclusion was based onthe  allegations  in  the said sub-para that  there  was  animproper acceptance of the nomination and that the appellanthad not obtained the necessary certificate from the ElectionCommission.  It has stated that in the circumstances of	 thecase the respondent meant to state that, as the	 certificatehad  not  been obtained, it could not have  accompanied	 thenomination  paper.   The learned Judges of  the	 High  Courtconcluded their discussion thus:" We also think that the Tribunal should have permitted	 theamendment because the ground of attack had been clearly madeout and the only mistake committed by the appellant was	 notto put it in proper words,"In short, the view of the High Court was that sub. para	 (d)contained  the ground under s. 100(1)(d)(i) of the  Act	 andwhat  was  asked  for  by  way	of  amendment  was  only   aclarification of that ground.The  High  Court,  in our view, has missed  the	 real  pointraised before it.  We have already pointed out that, in viewof the judgment of this Court in Durga Shankar Mehta's	Case(2)there was no improper(1) (1957) S.C.R. 370.	 (2) (1955) 1 S.C.R. 267.     40310acceptance of the nomination paper by the Returning Officer.for, the nomination paper ex facie did' not  disclose	 anydefect	or  disqualification.  The  petition  for  amendmentasked  for inserting a statement in sub-para (d) of  para  5under  the ground of improper acceptance of  the  nominationpaper,	viz.,  that  the  prescribed  certificate  did	 notaccompany the nomination paper of the candidate, and that atthe appellate stage the other proposed amendment based	upons.  33(3) of the Act was given up.  The result was  that  norelief	for  raising the ground under s.  100(1)(d)(iv)	 hadsurvived  and that the ground under s. 100(1)(d)(i) was	 notopen to the respondent.	 In the circumstances, the amendmentwould  be  foreign  to the scope of the	 enquiry  under	 theground governed by s. 100(1 )(d)(i) of the Act.That  apart,  could  it	 be said that  the  High  Court	 wasjustified  in  the circumstances of this case  to  interferewith the discretion of the Tribunal ? An appellate Court hasno doubt an unquestioned right to review or modify the ordermade by a subordinate Court; but it is undesirable to do  sowhen the subordinate Court made an order in the exercise  ofits  discretion without exceeding the limits of	 its  power,unless it acted perversely or unless the view taken by it isclearly wrong.	In this case, the Election Tribunal  neitherexceeded  its  powers nor acted perversely; and	 indeed	 itsorder  advanced	 the cause of justice in that it  helped  tomaintain the election of a candidate who was duly  qualifiedand who secured a large majority of votes over all the rivalcandidates.   We have carefully considered the 'reasons	 setout  in	 the judgment of the High Court in  support  of	 itsdecision that the amendment should have been allowed by	 theTribunal,   and	 in  our  opinion  the	said   reasons	 areunsatisfactory	and  on	 some  points  farfetched.   In	 thecircumstances,	we do not see any justification,  after	 theentire	petition  was  disposed of, for the  High  Court  tointerfere with the said discretion.  We therefore set  asidethe order of the High Court.It  is	represented  to us by the learned  counsel  for	 theappellant that in the High Court the only311point argued was that the amendment should have been allowedand no other point was pressed.	 The learned counsel for therespondent   does   not	 accept	 this  position.    In	 thecircumstances,	we  have no other option but to	 remand	 thecase to the High Court for disposal in accordance with	law.The respondent will pay the costs to the appellant.Appeal allowed.