PETITIONER:HOMI JEHANGIR GHEESTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/09/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1135		  1961 SCR  (1) 770 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1986 SC1849	 (10)ACT:Income tax-Assessment-Income from undisclosed source-Refusalby  Appellate  Tribunal to state a case-Summary	 refusal  byHigh  Court to direct a reference-Question of law, when	 canbe  said  to  arise from the order  of	the  Tribunal-IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), s. 66(2).HEADNOTE:The  appellant encashed high denomination currency notes  ofthe value of Rs. 87,5oo and was called upon by the IncometaxOfficer	 to  submit  a return for the  relevant	 year.	 Theappellant  made	 three statements,  discrepant	in  materialparticulars,  at different stages as to how he received	 theamount.	 The Income-tax Officer held that the true nature ofthe  receipt  had not been disclosed, treated it  as  incomefrom  an  undisclosed source and assessed  him	accordingly.The  Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax upheld that  orderon  appeal.   On a further appeal,  the	 Appellate  Tribunalreviewed  the  facts, considered the  discrepancies  in	 theappellant's  case and affirmed the order of assessment.	  Anapplication  for a reference to the High Court	having	beenmade under s. 66 of the Indian Income-tax Act, the  Tribunalheld  that  no	question of law arose  from  its  order	 anddismissed  the	same.  The High Court  thereafter  summarilydismissed  the	application made by the appellant  under  s.66(2)  of the Act.  Against that order of summary  dismissalspecial leave to appeal was obtained from this court and thesole  question for determination in the appeal	was  whetherthe  order of the Tribunal on the face of it  disclosed	 anyquestion of law and if the High Court was right in summarilydismissing the application under s. 66(2) of the Act.Held,  that no question of law arose from the order  of	 theTribunal and the appeal must fail.In order to decide whether the principles laid down by	thiscourt  in Dhirajlal Girdharilal v. Commissioner	 of  Income-tax,  Bombay,  (1954) 26 I.T.R. 736 and Omar  Salay  MohamedSait v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras, (1959) 37 I.T.R.151, applied to a particular case, it was necessary to	readthe order of the Tribunal as a whole for determining whetheror not it had properly considered the material facts and theevidence, for and against, in coming to its final conclusionand  whether  any  irrelevant  consideration  or  matter  ofprejudice had vitiated such conclusion.	 Those decisions  donot require that the order of the Tribunal must be  examinedsentence by sentence so as to discover a minor lapse here oran  incautious	opinion	 there and rest a  question  of	 lawthereon.			    771Dhirajlal Girdharilal v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay,(1954) 26 I.T.R. 736 and Omar Saley Mohamed Sait v.  Commis-sioner	 of  Income-tax,  Madras,  (1959)  37  I.T.R.	151,explained.Although  a  mere rejection of an explanation given  by	 theassessee  does	not  invariably establish the  nature  of  areceipt., where the circumstances of the rejection are	suchas  to properly raise the inference that the receipt  is  anincome, the assessing authorities are entitled to draw	thatinference.  Such an inference is one of fact and not of law.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 24 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober	 4, 1956, of the former Bombay High Court in  I.T.A.No. 49 of 1956.R.J.  Kolah,  S. N. Andley, J. B.  Dadachanji,	RameshwarNath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellant.K.N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.	September  22.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byS.K. DAS J.-For the assessment year 1946-47 the appellantHomi Jehangir Gheesta was assessed to income-tax on a  totalincome of Rs. 87,500 under s. 23(3) of the Indian Income-taxAct,  1922.  The circumstances in which he was	so  assessedwere the following.The appellant's case was that M. H. Sanjana, maternal  grandfather	of  the appellant, died on or about  May  10,  1920.There  was  litigation between his widow Cursetbai  and	 BaiJerbanoo,  Sanjana's daughter by his first wife,  about	 thevalidity  of a will left by Sanjana.  Bai Jerbanoo  was	 theappellant's mother.  The litigation was compromised and	 theappellant's mother got one-third share in the estate left bySanjana	 the  total  value of which  estate  was  about	 Rs.9,88,000.   Bai Jerbanoo died in 1933, leaving	her  husbandJehangirji  (appellant's father), her son  Homi	 (appellant)and a daughter named Aloo.  It was stated, though there	 wasno evidence thereof, that Bai Jerbanoo left an estate  worthabout Rs. 2,10,000 when she died.  The appellant was a minorat the time of772his mother's death.  He had two uncles then, Phirozeshaw andKaikhusroo.   Phirozeshaw  was	the  eldest  member  of	 thefamily.	 On his mother's death the appellant's share of	 theestate	was Rs. 70,000.	 Phirozeshaw took charge of  it	 andmade   investments.    He  died	 on   December	 12,   1945.Kaikhusroo,  younger brother of Phirozeshaw and one  of	 theexecutors  of  his  will,  took	 charge	 of  the  estate  ofPhirozeshaw.  When he opened a safe belonging to Phirozeshawhe  found  a packet with the name of the  appellant  on	 it.That  packet contained high denomination currency  notes  ofthe value of Rs. 87,500.  On January 24, 1946, the appellanttendered  those notes for encashment and made a	 declarationwhich was then necessary and in the declaration he said:"Legacy from my mother who died in 1933 when I was minor andmoney  whereof was invested from time to time by  my  fatherand late uncle Phirozeshaw who recently died."When  the  appellant received a notice from  the  Income-taxOfficer	 to submit a return of his income for  the  relevantyear,  he submitted a return showing " nil "  income.	Whenasked  about  the  high	 denomination  notes  which  he	 haduncashed,  he said in a letter dated January 7,	 1947,	thathis  uncle Phirozeshaw who used to manage his estate  duringhis  minority handed over to him and his father the  sum  ofRs. 87,500 sometime before his (i. e., Phirozeshaw's)  deathin  1945.   This was a story different from  the  one  latergiven,	about  the opening of the safe by  Kaikhusroo  afterPhirozeshaw's death and the finding of a packet there in thename  of  the  appellant.   The	 appellant  also  filed	  anaffidavit  before  the Income-tax Officer on  September	 29,1949,  which also contained contradictory statements.  On  aconsideration  of all the materials before him, the  Income-tax  Officer  did not accept the case of the  appellant	 butcame  to the conclusion that the true nature of the  receiptof  Rs. 87,500 was not disclosed.  He treated the amount  asappellant's  income  from  some	 source	 not  disclosed	 andassessed him accordingly.The appellant preferred an appeal to the Assistant			    773Commissioner  of  Income-tax.  At the  appellate  stage	 thestatements of the appellant's father and uncle were taken bythe  Income-tax	 Officer, D-11 Ward, Bombay, and  a  furtherstatement  of the appellant's uncle Kaikhusroo was taken  bythe  appellate authority.  That authority came to  the	sameconclusion as the Income-tax Officer had come to.Then  there  was  an  appeal  to  the  Income-tax  AppellateTribunal,  which again reviewed the facts of the case.	 TheTribunal  pointed out the following important  discrepanciesin the case sought to be made out by the appellant:"(i)  Declaration dated 24-1-1946 by the assessee says	thatmother's  legacy  was invested " by my father  and  my	lateuncle Phirozeshaw ". His letter dated 7-1-1947 says that hisuncle  (i.  e., Phirozeshaw) only managed his  estate.	 Theobject	of this variation is obviously to shield his  fatherfrom  inconvenient  examination.   The	uncle  had   alreadydeparted for his eternal home.(ii)Assessee's	letter dated 7-1-1947 says that	 the  unclePhirozeshaw handed over money " to me and my father " beforehis  death.   The affidavit dated  29-9-1949  tells  anotherstory,	viz., the executor Kaikhusroo handed over  money  tothe assessee after Phirozeshaw's death.	 In another part  ofthe said affidavit it is said that the said executor  handedover  money to assessee's father.  The affidavit assures  usthat  the declaration regarding high denomination notes	 wasmade  on  the  information given him  by  his  father.	 Theassessee-son  nowhere refers to any " packet ". Indeed,	 thetheory	of  "  packet  "  was  pronounced  by  the  ExecutorKaikhusroo  only  when	he appeared  before  the  Income-taxOfficer on 22-2-1952.(iii)  In his statement dated 22-2-1952 Mr. Kaikhusroo	saysthat  he  " found an envelope containing Rs. 87,500  1	tookcharge	of  this money and handed over the money  to  Homi."Before	the Appellate Assistant Commissioner H.	 Range,	 thesame Mr. Kaikhusroo later on said:" I handed over the packets as they were.  I did774not  count  the Dotes or verify the contents." Some  of	 theanswers	 given as to " receipts " and " inventory "  by	 theexecutor  Kaikhusroo  show  that he did not  take  even	 thereasonable  precautions that an ordinary person would  take,not to talk of an executor."The Tribunal then expressed its conclusion thus:" We have, in these circumstances, no hesitation whatever inholding	 that the assessee has miserably failed	 to  explainsatisfactorily	the source of the sum of Rs. 87,500.  It  isproperly taxed as income."It dismissed the appeal by its Order dated October 7, 1955.The  appellant	then  moved the Tribunal  to  refer  certainquestions  of  law  to	the  High  Court,  which   questionsaccording  to  the  appellant arose out	 of  the  Tribunal'sorder.	The Tribunal held that no question of law arose	 outof  its order dated October 7, 1955, and by its order  datedMarch  8, 1956, dismissed the application of  the  appellantfor a reference under s. 66 of the Income-tax Act, 1922.The appellant unsuccessfully moved the Bombay High Court  bymeans  of  a  petition under s. 66(2).	 This  petition	 wassummarily  dismissed by the High Court on October  4,  1956.The  appellant	then filed a petition for special  leave  toappeal	to this Court.	By an order dated December 3,  1956,this  Court  granted Special Leave to Appeal to	 this  Courtfrom  the  order of the Bombay High Court dated	 October  4,1956,  but made no order at that stage on the  petition	 forspecial	 leave	to appeal from the orders  of  the  Tribunaldated  October	7,  1955, and March 8,	1956.	The  presentappeal has been filed pursuant to the special leave  grantedby this Court.The short point for consideration is this-was the High Courtright in summarily rejecting the petition under s. 66 (2)  ?In other words, did the order of the Tribunal dated  October7,  1955, on the face of it raise any question of law  ?  Onbehalf	of  the	 appellant  it	has  been  argued  that	 theprinciples laid down by this Court in Dhirajlal	 Girdharilalv. Commissioner of Income-tax,Bombay (1) apply, because though the decision of the(1) (1954) 26 I. T. R. 736.			    775Tribunal  is  final on a question of fact, an issue  of	 lawarises if the Tribunal arrives at its decision by  consider-ing  material  which  is irrelevant to the  enquiry,  or  byconsidering  material  which is partly relevant	 and  partlyirrelevant,  or	 bases its decision partly  on	conjectures,surmises  and suspicions.  It is contended that on the	faceof  it	the decision of the Tribunal suffers  from  all	 thethree defects mentioned above.Learned	 Counsel for the appellant has made a  grievance  ofthat  part  of	the order in which  the	 Appellate  Tribunalstates:	 " We were also not told why the deceased uncle,  ifhe took charge of the minor's money, did not hand it over toBai Aloo when she became major in 1939 or even when she	 gotmarried	 in  1944  ".  It is  contended	 that  this  was  anirrelevant  consideration,  and	 Bai  Aloo  herself  made  astatement before the Income-tax Officer, D-II Ward,  Bombay,on  February  22,  1952, in which  she	indicated  the	cir-cumstances  how she also received a sum of Rs.	85,000	fromher  uncle  Phirozeshaw	 before	 the  latter's	death.	 Shefurther	 stated	 that  she also submitted a  return  to	 theIncome-tax  Officer but was not subjected to any  assessmenton  the sum received.  The argument of learned	Counsel	 forthe appellant is that it was not a relevant consideration asto  why Phirozeshaw did not hand over the money to Bai	Alooin 1939 or in 1944, and if Bai Aloo's statements were to  betaken  into  consideration,  they  were	 in  favour  of	 theappellant  in as much as no assessment was made on Bai	Alooin respect of the sum she had received.	 We do not  considerthat  the  circumstances  referred to  by  the	Tribunal  inconnection with Bai Aloo's statement were irrelevant.	Whatthe  Tribunal  had  to	consider  was  the  correctness	  orotherwise of a story in which the mother was stated to	haveleft Rs. 2,10,000 out of which the heirs got one third shareeach.  The Tribunal had to consider each aspect of the storyin order to judge of its probability and from that point  ofview  it was a relevant consideration as to why	 Bai  Aloo'smoney  was  not paid when she became major or when  she	 gotmarried.   It was also a relevant consideration as  to	whatthe father of the appellant did with his776share of the money and the Tribunal rightly pointed out thatthe father took cover tinder "mixing of investments ". Thesewere relevant considerations for judging the probability  ofthe  story.  The Tribunal also rightly pointed out that	 thefact  that Bai Aloo was not assessed did not make the  storyany more probable.The  Tribunal stated in its order that a summons was  issuedto the father by the Income-tax Officer to appear before thelatter	on June 23, 1950.  The father failed to comply	withthe  summons.  This circumstance, it is argued,	 should	 nothave  been  used against the appellant, because	 the  recordshowed that the summons was served on the father on June 22,1950, for attendance on the next day and the father wrote  aletter stating that it was not possible for him to attend onthe next day and, therefore, asked for another date.  We  donot  think that this circumstance vitiates the order of	 theTribunal  which was based on grounds much  more	 substantialthan the failure of summons issued against him.	 The  fatherwas  actually examined later and his statements	 were  takeninto consideration.  One point made by the Tribunal was thatno  explanation	 was forthcoming as to why  the	 uncle	tookcharge	of  the share of the appellant and his	sister	whentheir father was alive and why the father allowed himself tobe  effaced in the matter of custody and management  of	 thefunds  belonging  to his children.  We	consider  that	thiscircumstance  was also a relevant consideration, and if	 thefather	was in a position to give an explanation, he  shouldhave  done so when he made his statement before the  Income-tax Officer, D-11 Ward, Bombay, on February 8,1952.The  Tribunal states: " We were also told that the  assesseewas  taking his education between 1943 and 1950 and as	suchhe  bad no opportunity to earn any income.  In a place	likeBombay	and particularly in the family of a  businessman,  aperson may earn even when he learns." These observations  ofthe Tribunal has been very seriously commented on by learnedCounsel for the appellant.  Learned Counsel has stated	thatcertificates from the school, college and			    777university authorities were produced by the appellant  rightupto 1950 which showed that the appellant was a student till1950  and after seeing the certificates the Tribunal  shouldnot have said-" We were also told etc." According to learnedCounsel	 this showed that, the finding of the  Tribunal	 wascoloured by prejudice.	We are unable to agree.	 Even if  itbe  taken that the appellant satisfactorily proved  that  hewas  a student till 1950, we do Dot think that it makes	 anyreal difference as to the main question at issue, which	 waswhether	 the appellant received the sum of Rs.	70,000	fromthe estate of his mother, later increased by investments  toRs.  87,500 in 1945.  The Tribunal rightly pointed out	thatno evidence was given of the value of the estate left by themother,	 though there was some evidence of what	 the  motherreceived  from	the estate of her father  Sanjana;  nor	 wasthere any evidence of the investments said to have been madewhich led to an addition to the original sum of Rs.  70,000.It has been argued that it was a mere surmise on the part ofthe Tribunal to say that in a place like Bombay a person mayearn when be learns.  Even if the Tribunal is wrong in	thisrespect,  we  do  not  think that it  is  a  matter  of	 anyconsequence.We  must  read	the  order of the Tribunal  as	a  whole  todetermine  whether every material fact, for and against	 theassessee, has been considered fairly and with the due  care;whether	 the  evidence pro and con has	been  considered  inreaching  the final conclusion ; and whether the  conclusionreached	 by  the Tribunal has been  coloured  by  irrelevantconsiderations or matters of prejudice.	 Learned Counsel forthe  appellant has taken us through the entire order of	 theTribunal  as  also  the relevant materials on  which  it  isbased.	Having examined the order of the Tribunal and  thosematerials,  we are unable to agree with learned Counsel	 forthe appellant that the order of the Tribunal is vitiated  byany  of the defects adverted to in Dhirajlal Girdharilal  v.Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay (1) or Omar Salay MohamedSait v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras(2).	We must make(1) (1954) 26 I.T.R. 736.(2) (1959) 37 I.T.R. 151778it  clear that we do not think that those decisions  requirethat the order of the Tribunal must be examined sentence  bysentence, through a microscope as it were, so as to discovera minor lapse here or an incautious opinion there to be usedas  a peg on which to hang an issue of law.  In view of	 thearguments advanced before us it is perhaps necessary to	 addthat in considering probabilities properly arising from	 thefacts  alleged or proved, the Tribunal does not	 indulge  inconjectures, surmises or suspicions.It  has	 also  been  argued  before  us	 that  even  if	 theexplanation of the appellant as to the sum of Rs. 87,500  isnot  accepted,	the Department did not prove by	 any  directevidence  that	the amount was income in the  hands  of	 theappellant.   We	 do not think that in a case  like  the	 onebefore	us  the Department was required to prove  by  directevidence that the sum of Rs. 87,500 was income in the  handsof  the appellant.  Indeed, we agree that it is not  in	 allcases  that  by	 mere rejection of the	explanation  of	 theassessee,  the character of a particular receipt  as  incomecan  be	 said  to  have	 been  established;  but  where	 thecircumstances of the rejection are such that the only properinference  is that the receipt must be treated as income  inthe  bands  of	the assessee, there is	no  reason  why	 theassessing  authorities	should not draw such  an  inference.Such an inference is an inference of fact and not of law.For  the  reasons  given above we are of the  view  that  noquestion of law arose from the order of the Tribunal and  wesee no grounds for interference with the judgment and  orderof the Bombay High Court, dated October 4, 1956.  The appealaccordingly fails and is dismissed with costs.		     Appeal dismissed.779