PETITIONER:SETH GULAB CHAND	Vs.RESPONDENT:SETH KUDILAL AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/03/1958BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  554		  1959 SCR  313ACT:       Statute,	 Construction  of-Retrospective	 operation-Rule	 of       presumption-Applicability-Duty  of Court-Reference  to  Pre-       existing law, if and when permissible-Right of appeal-United       State  of  Gwalior, Indore and  Malwa  (Madhya-Bharat)  High       Court of Judicature Act, VIII of 1949, SS. 2(b), 25.HEADNOTE:The  rule  that	 a  statute is	not  to	 have  retrospectiveoperation  can	apply  only where it is	 doubtful  from	 thelanguage  used whether or not it was intended to  have	suchoperation.  Where the language of the statute plainly  givesit  a  retrospective operation, there can be  no  scope	 forapplying  the  rule  of	 presumption  against  retrospectiveoperation.  The rule does not require that the Courts shouldbe  obdurate  in refusing to give  a  statute  retrospectiveoperation,  equally it does not justify the reading of	morewords than there are into the statute in order that the rulemay apply.Delhi  Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. v. Income  Tax	Com-missioner,  Delhi,  (1927)  L.	R. 54  I.A.  421,  Smith  v.Callander, (1901) A.C. 297 and Reid v. Reid, L.R. (1886)  3ICh.  D. 402, considered.The appellant brought a suit for specific performance of  anagreement of sale in the High Court of Indore at a time whenIndore was a Princely State in British India.  On April	 22,1948, the Rulers of Gwalior, Indore and certain other Statesentered into a Covenant to form the United State of Gwalior,Indore	and Malwa (Madhya-Bharat).  The suit was heard by  asingle	Judge  and decreed on June 11, 1948.  The  Ruler  ofIndore on June 16, 1948, made over the administration of hisState to the Raj Pramukh of the United State in terms of theCovenant.  By an ordinance promulgated by the Raj Pramukh  aHigh Court was established for the United State and the HighCourt of Indore ceased to function from July 29, 1948.	 Therespondents  preferred an appeal to the Divisional Bench  ofthe  High Court of the United State on August 24, 1948,	 andthe appellant preferred a cross appeal under the  provisionsof that Ordinance.  The Divisional Bench found in favour  ofthe  respondents  in both the appeal  and  cross-appeal	 anddismissed the appellant's suit by a judgment dated  December2,  1948.   The Interim Legislative Assembly of	 the  UnitedState enacted the United State of Gwalior, Indore and  Malwa(Madhya-Bharat) High Court of Judicature Act, VIII Of  1949,which came into force on January 18, 1949, and repealed	 theOrdinance.40314By s. 2(b) of the Act it was provided :This Act shall apply to all Criminal and civil proceedingsincluding those under. testamentary, intestate, matrimonialdivorce and insolvency jurisdiction pending in the courts inany State on the date on which the State is included in	 theunited	State and to such proceedings, arising in  the	saidstates, after those dates.By s. 25 it was provided :Special appeal shall lie to the Full Bench of the High courtfrom :- (1) a	  decree  or  an  appealable  order  passed  by	 theDivisional Bench    of	two judges Of the High Court in	 theexercise of extraordinary     or       appellate       civiljurisdiction.The  appellant preferred an appeal to the Full Bench of	 theHigh  Court  under  S.	25  against.  the  judgment  of	 theDivisional  Bench.  The Full Bench dismissed the  appeal  asincompetent   holding  that  s.	 25  could  not	  be   givenretrospective operation so as to disturb the right that	 hadvested in the respondents as to the finality of the judgmentof the Divisional Bench which was passed before the Act cameinto force :Held,  that  s.	 25  Of	 the  Act,  although  not  in  termsretrospective, has to be read with S. 2(b) of the Act  whichmade  the  Act, and consequently S. 25,	 applicable  to	 theproceedings mentioned in it and since the appeal before	 theDivisional Bench, filed after the inclusion of the State  ofIndore	in  the United State, was beyond doubt one  of	suchproceedings,  the  competency  of the appeal  could  not  bequestioned.Although there can be no hard and fast rule that in no	caseshould	the pre-existing law be referred to for the  purposeof  interpreting a new enactment, where, as in	the  presentcase,  the language is simple, free from doubt	and  clearlyindicates that a change in the pre-existing law is  intendedand  no	 reason existed requiring a reference  to  the	pre-existing law, no such reference is permissible.Tumahole Bereng v. The King, (1949) A.C. 253, Abdur Rahim v.Mohomed	 Barkat	 Ali,  (1927)  L.R. 55 I.A.  96	 and  In  reMayfair .Property Co. (1898) 2 Ch . 28, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 230 of 1953.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated August 29, 1950 ofthe  former  Madhya Bharat High Court at Indore	 in  SpecialAppeal No. 5 of 1949, arising out of the judgment and decreedated  December	 2, 1948, of the said High  Court  in  CivilFirst Appeal No. 61 of 1948 against the judgment and  decreedated June 11,3151948, on its Original Side in Civil Original Suit No. 30  of1947.N.C Chatterjee, S. C. Isaacs, J. D. Patel, J. B. Dadachanji,S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellant.M.   P.	 Amin,	C.  B.	Sanghi and 1.  N.  Shroff,  for	 therespondents.1958.	March 28.  The following Judgment of the  Court	 wasdelivered bySARKAR T.-The Princely States that existed in British India,merged themselves in the Union of India not very long  afterIndia  became independent.  Before the merger some of  theseStates	passed	through certain stages which may  be  calledtransitional.	The  decision  of  this	 appeal	 depends  oncertain	  laws	 that  came  into   existence	during	 thetransitional  stage  through  which the	 Princely  State  ofIndore passed before it became merged in the Indian Union.Up  to April 22, 1948, Indore as one of the Princely  Statesof  India enjoyed internal sovereign rights and had its	 ownlaws  and  courts.   These laws	 and  courts  derived  theirauthority  from	 the Ruler of Indore in whom  the  sovereignpower  was vested.  The highest court in Indore	 was  calledthe High Court.The  suit out of which this appeal arises was filed  by	 theappellant  against the respondents in the Indore High  Courton  November  6,  1947.	 It, was a  suit  for  the  specificperformance  of an agreement whereby it is  said,  GovindramSakstria,   whose  heirs  and  legal   representatives	 therespondents are, agreed to sell to the appellant a share  ina  business.  The said Govindram Saksaria having died  priorto the suit it was brought against the respondents.On April 22, 1948, the Rulers of Gwalior, Indore and certainother  States in the region known as  Malwa  (Madhva-Bharat)entered	 into  a  Covenant  to	unite  and  integrate  theirterritories   in   one	State  with  a	 common	  executive,legislature and judiciary, by the name of the -United  Stateof Gwalior, Indore and Malwa (Madhya-Bharat) and to  includein that United316State  any other State the Ruler of which later agreed	withthe approval of the Government of India, to merge his  Statein the United State.  Article 3 of the Covenant provided forthe  constitution of a Council of Rulers one of the  membersof  which  was	to be its President,  such  President  beingcalled	the Rajpramukh.	 It also provided that the Ruler  ofGwalior would be the first Raj Pramukh of the United  State.Under art. 6 of the Covenant, the Ruler of each	 covenantingState  was required to make over the administration  of	 hisState  to the Raj Pramukh by a date not later than  July  1,1948.	 This	article	  also	provided   that	  upon	 theadministration	of  a  State  being made  over	to  the	 RajPramukh, all rights, authority and jurisdiction belonging toits Ruler and appertaining or incidental to its	 Government,would	vest   in  the	United	State.	 Similar   provisionwas  also  made	 in respect of the vesting  of	the  rights,authority and jurisdiction of the Ruler of a State which  bya subsequent agreement became included in the United  State.Article	  10  provided	that  as  soon	as   practicable   aConstituent Assembly for the United State would be formed inthe manner indicated, for framing its Constitution and	thatthe  Raj  Pramukh  would by August 1,  1948,  constitute  aninterim	 Legislative Assembly.	It also provided that  untilthe  Constitution  framed by the Constituent  Assembly	cameinto operation, the Raj Pramukh would have the power to makeand promulgate Ordinances for the peace and good  Governmentof the United State but such Ordinances would have force fora  period not longer than six months from  its	promulgationand would be liable to be controlled or superseded by an Actof  the	 interim  Legislative  Assembly.   As  a  matter  ofinterest  it may be mentioned here, though nothing turns  onthat  in this appeal, that the United State later  became  aPart  B	 State as defined in the Constitution of  India	 andlastly,	 merged in the territories of what is now the  Stateof Madhya Pradesh.The  suit  brought by the appellant was heard  by  a  singleJudge  of  the	Indore	High Court who	decreed	 it  by	 hisjudgment pronounced on June 11, 1948.  It317was  five  days	 after this judgment  had  been	 pronounced,namely, on June 16, 1948, that the Ruler of Indore made overthe  administration of his State to the Raj Pramukh  of	 theUnited State in terms of the Covenant.	It appears, however,that  the  High Court of Indore continued  functioning	eventhereafter.   On June 19, 1948, the Raj Pramukh	 promulgatedOrdinance No. 2 of 1948 to provide for the establishment  ofa  -High  Court	 for the United State.	Section.  2  of	 theOrdinance  provided  that it would come into force  on	suchdate as the Raj Pramukh might prescribe and the Raj  Pramukhby  a Notification. published on July 28,  1948,  prescribedJuly 29, 1948, as such date.  On Ordinance No. 2 of 1948  socoming	into force on July 29, 1948, the High Court  of	 theState of Indore ceased to function from that date.   Section35 of the Ordinance provided that on the taking over of	 theadministration	of  any State by the Raj  Pramukh  its	HighCourt  would cease to exist and all cases pending before  itwould  be transferred to the High Court of the United  Stateestablished  by	 the  Ordinance.   The	provisions  of	thissection	 were found to be anomalous in the cases  of  Stateslike  Indore, where the administration had been	 taken	oversometime  before the Ordinance had come into force  and	 theHigh  Court  under it established, for in  regard  to  theseStates the cases pending in the State High Courts could	 noton  the	 dates	their  administration  was  taken  over,  betransferred  to	 the United State High Court as it  had	 notthen  come  into  existence.  To  remedy  this	anomaly,  onOctober 16, 1948, the Raj Pramukh promulgated Ordinance	 No.14 of 1948.  This Ordinance replaced s. 35 in Ordinance 2 of1948  by a new section and provided that it would be  deemedto  have always been so replaced.  The new section  providedthat in the case of any State whose administration had	beentaken  over by the Raj Pramukh before the  establishment  ofthe  High Court of the United State, the High Court  of	 theState  would  cease to exist and function from the  date  ofsuch  establishment and thereupon all cases  pending  beforethe High Court of the State would be transferred to the HighCourt of the United State and the appeals318which  would have lain to the High Court of the State  wouldlie to the High Court of the United State.Before	Ordinance No. 14 of 1948 had been  promulgated,	 therespondents  on August 24, 1948, preferred an appeal to	 the-Divisional bench of the High Court of the United State fromthe  decision  of  the High Court of  Indore  decreeing	 theappellant's  suit on June 11, 1948, to which  reference	 hasbeen  made earlier.  A few days later, namely, on  September7, 1948, the appellant also preferred a cross-appeal to	 theDivisional Bench against the same decision.  On December  2,1948,  the  Divisional	-Bench decided the  appeal  and	 thecross-appeal in favour of the respondents and dismissed	 theappellant's suit. Now  came  the United State of Gwalior,  Indore  and  Malwa(Madhya-Bharat) High Court of Judicature Act, VIII of  1949,hereafter  referred  to as the Act.  It was enacted  by	 theInterim	 Legislative Assembly of the United State which	 hadearlier	 come  into existence.	The Act came into  force  onJanuary 18, 1949.  Section 40 of this Act repealed OrdinanceNo.  2	of 1948.  The question that arises  in	this  appealdepends	 on  the construction of some of the  provisions  ofthis Act which are now set out.Preamble:  Whereas  it	is  necessary  to  provide  for	 thecontinuance  of the High Court of Judicature for the  UnitedState	of   Gwalior,  Indore  and   Malwa   (Madhya-Bharat)established  under  Ordinance No. 11 of 1948, it  is  herebyenacted as follows:S. 4. In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in	 thesubject	 or context:(d)  " High Court " means the High Court functioning as	 theHigh Court of the United State.S.   2(a).  It shall extend to the whole of the United Stateof Gwalior Indore and Malwa (Madhya Bharat) and shall  applyto  all persons within the said United State over  whom	 theCourts having jurisdiction in the Covenanting States formingpart of the said United State had jurisdiction.(b)  This  Act	shall  apply  to  all  Criminal	 and   CivilProceedings including those under testamentary,319intestate, matrimonial, divorce and insolvency jurisdiction,pending in the Courts in any State on the (late on which theState	is  included  in  the  United  State  and  to	suchproceedings, arising in the said States,after those dates.S.25.  Special appeal shall lie to the Full Bench of the    HighCourt from :- (1)  a	 decree	 or  an	 appealable  order  passed  by	 theDivisional  Bench  of two Judges of the High  Court  in	 theexercise of extraordinary or appellate civil jurisdiction.On March 31, 1949, the appellant filed an appeal to the FullBench of the High Court from the judgment of the -DivisionalBench  dismissing  his suit.  He claimed to be	entitled  tofile  this  appeal under s. 25 of the Act.  The	 Full  Benchdismissed  the	appeal	on the ground that  s.	25  was	 notavailable to the appellant and in this view of the matter itdid  not  go into the merits of the  appellant's  case.	  Itappears that another Full Bench of the High Court consistingof  three Judges had held on an earlier occasion that s.  25did  not apply where the Divisional Bench had delivered	 itsjudgment  before the Act had come into force and  no  appealJay from such a judgment under this section.  That view	 wasendorsed  by  the  judgment of the later  Full	Bench  whichhowever	 was  larger  consisting of  five  Judges.   In	 thepresent	 appeal to this Court, the correctness of  the	lastFull Bench judgment is being challenged.The appellant contends that s. 2(b) of the Act ap. plied theAct  including s. 25 to the proceedings mentioned in it	 ands. 25 so applied gave a right of appeal to the Full Bench ofthe  High Court from the decision of a Divisional  Bench  ofthat  Court passed in these proceedings.  He then says	thatthe judgment of the Divisional Bench dated ]December 2, 1948from which he had appealed to the Full Bench had been passedin such a proceeding and therefore his appeal was competent.The  High  Court  does not appear to  have  held  that	thatproceeding was not of any320of the kinds mentioned in s. 2(b) and it seems to us that itwas of one of these kinds.  Section 2(b) mentions two  kindsof proceedings, namely, first those pending in the Courts inany  State on the date on which that State was	included  inthe  United,  State and secondly those which  arose  in	 theStates	after those dates.  Now the proceeding in which	 theDivisional  Bench pronounced judgment was an appeal  from  adecision of a Single Judge of the Indore High Court given onJune 11, 1948, that is, before that State became included inthe  United  State.  The appeal had however  been  filed  onAugust 24, 1948, that is, after Indore had been included  inthe United State.  The appellant contends that the fact thatthe decree from which he had appealed had been passed beforethe  date of inclusion of Indore in the United	State  whilehis appeal had been filed after that date made no differencefor  an appeal being only a continuation of the	 proceedingsin  a  suit,  the proceedings must be deemed  to  have	beenpending all along since the filing of the suit and thereforeon  the	 date when Indore was included in the  United  Statethough the appeal was filed later.  Dinonath Ghose v.  ShamaBibi (1) to which we were referred would seem to support theappellant's  contention.  In any case it seems beyond  doubtthat  the  appeal in which the judgment	 of  the  DivisionalBench,	dated  December	 2,  1948,  was	 pronounced,  was  aproceeding of the second kind mentioned in s. 2(b),  namely," proceedings, arising in the said States, after those dates",  i.	e., the date of the inclusion of the  State  in	 theUnited State.  It seems clear to us that the words " arisingin the said States " do not refer to proceeding arising in aPrincely  State for the Princely State had ceased  to  existafter  its inclusion in the United State and  no  proceedingcould arise therein after such inclusion.  So to  understandthese  would result in this part of s. 2(b)  being  renderednugatory.   We	do  not think,. however	 such  a  result  isinevitable.   These  words can well be taken to refer  to  aproceeding  arising  in the areas of an	 erstwhile  PrincelyState subsequently included in the United(1)  (1900) I.L.R. 28 Cal. 23.321State.	 We think that to be the proper meaning to be  givento  these  words.   So understood the appeal  in  which	 thejudgment  of the Divisional Bench, dated December  2,  1948,was  given  was	 a proceeding arising in the  areas  of	 theerstwhile Indore State after the inclusion of that State  inthe United State for it was filed after such inclusion.	  Itis  therefore  clearly	a  proceeding  of  the	second	kindmentioned in s. 2(b).The  learned  Judges of the High Court however did  not,  asearlier stated, accept the appellant's contention that s. 25gave  a right of appeal to the Full Bench from the  judgmentof the Divisional Bench passed in a proceeding mentioned  ins.  2(b).  Their reasons for this view would appear  broadlyto  be	these:	To accede to the  appellant's  contention  aretrospective  operation would have to be given to  the	 Actand  thereby affect the right vested in the  respondents  atthe  date of the passing of the Act to the finality  of	 thejudgment of the Divisional Bench delivered before that date;the  rules of construction of a statute required  that	onlysuch  retrospective operation should be given to it  as	 itslanguage  compelled; there was no such language used  in  s.2(b),  which, properly understood, only gave the High  Courtof the United State jurisdiction over proceedings pending inthe  High  Court of' a Princely State on the date  on  whichthat  State was included in the United State; 'in any  eventthe  language of s. 2(b) would be fully satisfied by  givingretrospective  operation  to  s. 25 only to  the  extent  ofapplying it to proceedings pending on the date of  inclusionof  a  State in the United State and not closed by  a  finaljudgment passed before the Act came into force.It may be conceded that the judgment of the Divisional Benchwas  final  under  the law as it stood at the  date  it	 waspassed	and no appeal lay from it before the Act  came	intoforce.	The respondents had therefore at the date of the Acta vested right to the finality of this judgment.  It is alsoclear  that  a	right to the finality of  a  judgment  is  asubstantive right and that the acceptance of the appellant'scontention would result in depriving the respondents of sucha right.41322The  only question in this appeal is whether s. 25  gives  aright  of appeal from the judgment of the Divisional  Bench.The  rule is clear that " provisions which touch a right  inexistence  at  the  passing of the statute  are	 not  to  beapplied retrospectively in the absence of express  enactmentor  necessary intendment " : Delhi Cloth and  General  MillsCo.  Ltd.  v. Income Tax Commissioner,	Delhi  (1).   Beforeproceeding  further we wish to observe that the rule that  astatute	 is  not  to have retrospective	 operation  is	onlyapplicable  where  it  is doubtful from	 the  language	usedwhether	 or  not, it was intended to  have  such  operation.Where  the  language  of  a  statute  plainly  gives  it   aretrospective operation, the rule has no application, for, "Of course, it is obviously competent for the Legislature, ifit  pleases, in its wisdom to make the provisions of an	 Actof  Parliament retrospective ": Smith v. Callander (2).	  Wemay usefully read here what Bowen L. J. said in Reid v. Reid(3):"  Now	the particular rule of construction which  has	beenreferred to, but which is valuable only when the words of anAct  of Parliament are not plain, is embodied in  the  well-known  trite maxim ominis nova constitution  futuris  formanimponere  debet	 non praeteritis, that is,  that  except  inspecial	 cases	the new law ought to be construed so  as  tointerfere as little as possible with vested rights.- We wishto emphasise that it is not as if all efforts should be madeso  as	not  to give a	statute	 a  retrospective  operationwhatever  its language is. The rule does not require of	 thecourts	an  " obdurate persistence " in refusing to  give  astatute retrospective operation.Now,  what is the language of the Act before us	 Section  25does  not contain any words to show that it was intended  tohave  retrospective  operation.	 It only  provides  for	 thefuture.	 It gives a new right of appeal and such appeal	 canof  course only be filed after the Act has come into  force.But there is s. 2 (b).	That section says that the Act shallapply  to all civil and criminal proceedings pending in	 theCourts	in  any	 State on the date on  which  the  State  isincluded in the(1)  (1927)  L.R. 54 1. A. 421. 425.  (2) (1901)  A.C.	297,305.(3) L.R. (1886) 31 Ch.	D. 402.408.323United	State, and to such proceedings arising in  the	saidStates after these dates.  Section 2 (b) therefore makes  s.25,  and also all other sections of the Act,  applicable  tothe proceedings mentioned in it.  Now what -is the effect ofthis  ?	 What is the result if a section giving a  right  ofappeal	is made applicable to a proceeding ? It can only  bethat an appeal would lie under that section from a  judgmentpassed	in that proceeding.  It is, in our view, clear	thatthe language of s. 2(b) applies s. 25 to a proceeding  whichwas  pending on a date before the Act came into	 force,	 andtherefore  gives  a  right of appeal from a  judgment  of  aDivisional Bench passed in that proceeding, whenever it	 mayhave been passed, that is to say, irrespective of whether itwas  passed before the Act or after it.	 We have here  plainlanguage  which gives the statute  retrospective  operation.It  does  not seem to us that there is any  scope  here.  ofapplying  the rule of presumption against the  retrospectiveoperation of a statute.But it is said that s. 2(b) only extends the jurisdiction ofthe High Court to the pending cases over which it would	 nototherwise have any jurisdiction, and is not intended to giveretrospective operation to any part of the Act.	 It is	saidthat  that  this  is the real effect of	 s.  2(b)  is  clearbecause	 it is put along with 2(a) which only specifies	 theterritories and the persons over whom the High Court  havingauthority  under the Act is to have jurisdiction.  It  seemsto  us,	 however,  that	 whether  a  section  only   createsjurisdiction  or not will depend on its language and not  onits  proximity	to  another  section  of  the  same  statutedefining  jurisdiction.	  Then	it  is	said  that  the	 Actrepealed  and  substantially re-enacted Ordinance No.  2  of1948  and  as the corresponding section of  that  Ordinance,namely,	 s.4(b), which was practically in the same  languageas  s.2(b) of the Act, was only concerned with jurisdiction,s.2(b)	must be understood to do the same.  This  contentionwas accepted by the learned Judges of the High Court but  inthis  they  were  clearly in error.  We do not	wish  to  beunderstood  as saying that in no case is a reference to	 theold  law permissible for interpreting a new statute, but  itseems to us that in the present324case  such a reference was not justified.  One of the  caseson  which  the	learned	 Judges	 of  the  High	Court  basedthemselves  is Tumahole Bereng v. The King (1).	  There	 theJudicial  Committee were dealing with a statute only a	partof which had been amended and after reminding themselves  ofthe wisdom of the warning given by Lord Watson in  Bradlaughv. Clarke (2) that it is " an extremely hazardous proceedingto refer to provisions which have been absolutely  repealed,in order to ascertain what the legislature meant to enact intheir room and stead," observed at p. 267:"...... the circumstances of the present case put it  beyondthe mischief Lord Watson was minded to discourage, and	thatfor  two  reasons.   In the first place, the  terms  of	 thesection	 as  it now stands are	sufficiently  difficult	 andambiguous  to justify the consideration of its evolution  inthe  statute-book  as  a  proper  and  logical	course;	 andsecondly, the object of the instant enquiry is to  ascertainthe  true meaning of that part of the section which  remainsas  it	was, and which there is no ground for  thinking	 thesubstitution of a new proviso was intended to alter.  "In the case before us the language admits of no	 difficulty-it  is simple and it applies all the sections of the Act  tocertain	 proceedings and as one of these sections at  least,namely,	 s.  25,  is new, clearly a change in  the  law	 wasintended.  We do not wish to suggest that the  circumstanceswhich  would  justify a reference to the old law  have	beenexhaustively  set  out	by the Judicial	 Committee.   It  isenough for us to say that none of those circumstances existshere.	In Abdur Rahim v. Mahomed Barkat Ali (3), which	 wasalso  referred to by the High Court, the Judicial  Committeehad to decide whether a suit was within s. 92 of the Code ofCivil Procedure, 1908, and for that purpose to find out whatreliefs	 the expression " further and other relief " in	 thesection	 would	include.  These words are plainly  wide	 andrequire definition.  The Judicial Committee referred to	 theearlier	 law  on the subject to find out what  that  generalexpression was intended to include.  This case(1) (1949) A.C. 253.	(2) (1883) 8 App.  Cas. 354.(3) (1927) L.R. 55 I.A. 96.325does not justify a resort to the old law by us, for here  wehave no general words as to the meaning of which  difficultyhas  arisen.   The last case on which the High	Court  baseditself	for this part of it,-, judgment to which we wish  torefer  was In re Mayfair Property Co. There  the  contentionwas that a certain interpretation would defeat the object ofthe  Act and in order to as certain that object a  referenceto the old law was found necessary.  No such question arisesin  the case before us. It is not contended that the  objectof the Act before us would be defeated if s. 2(b) applied s.25  retrospectively.  For these reasons it seems to us	thatthe  present  is not a case where it is permissible  to	 in-terpret	 s. 2(b) of the Act by reference to s. 4(b)  of	 theOrdinance.   Further in our view, in any event, s. 4 (b)  ofthe Ordinance provides no assistance in interpreting s. 2(b)of the Act.  Section 4(b) of the Ordinance was not concernedwith  applying to any case another provision in it giving  aright of appeal which s. 2(b) of the Act clearly is What  wehave  to decide is, in what cases that right of	 appeal	 wasgiven and for that purpose plainly s. 4(b) of the  Ordinancecan  afford no assistance as it was not concerned  with	 anysuch right of appeal.It  is then said that sufficient meaning would be  given  tothe  words " pending in the Courts in any State on the	dateon  which the State is included in the United State " in  s.2(b), if they are understood as referring to the cases whichwere  -pending	on that day and which had not  been  finallydecided	 and determined before the Act had come into  force.This contention is sought to be justified on the principle "that you ought not to give a larger retrospective power to asection, even in an Act which is to some extent intended  tobe  retrospective, than you can plainly see the	 Legislaturemeant ". See Reid v. Reid (2).	Now it seems to us that	 theprinciple has no application here.  There is nothing in	 thesection	 to  indicate  that  the  legislature  intended	 theretrospective  operation  of s. 25 to be confined  to  thosepending	 cases which had not terminated before the  Act	 hadcome  into force.  Such a construction would require  addingto the section the(1) (1898) 2 Ch. 28.(2) L.R. (1886) 31 Ch.	D- 402,408.326words  " and not finally decided before the Act	 comes	intoforce  ". The rule of presumption against the  retrospectiveoperation  does not require the addition of any words  to  asection otherwise plain.  We recall here, what we have	saidearlier, that the rule applies only where the words are	 notplain  or are capable of two meanings.	It does not  justifysubtlety  in  adding words to the section to make  the	ruleapplicable.It  is	also said that though s. 2(b) applies s. 25  to	 theproceedings  mentioned	therein, it does not  expressly	 saythat  in  so  applying	it,  vested  rights  shall  also  beaffected.  We think it enough to dispose of this  contentionto  say that, the necessary result of applying s. 25 to	 theproceedings  mentioned is to disturb vested rights and	thatin  order that a statute may have a retrospective  operationit  is not necessary to find words in it  expressly  statingthat  it will have such operation notwithstanding that	thatwill disturb vested rights.  We do not think that the  wordsare not plain to give a retrospective operation.We  therefore  think that the appellant's  appeal  from	 theDivisional Bench was competent under s. 25 of the Act.	 Theresult	is that this appeal is allowed.	 The decree  of	 theFull  Bench of the High Court is set aside.  The  case	willnow  go	 back to the High Court of  (Madhya-Pradesh)  to  bedecided	 on the merits.	 The appellant will have  the  costshere and below.We have here to state that there were three other  connectedmatters.   First, there was an application by the  appellantto this Court for special leave to appeal from the  Judgmentof the Divisional Bench, being Petition for Special Leave toAppeal	(Civil)	 No. 368 of 1957.  Then	 there	was  anotherapplication by the appellant to this Court for special leaveto  appeal  from  the  judgment of  the	 Full  Bench,  beingPetition  for  ,Special Leave to Appeal (Civil) No.  242  of1957.	These  had  been made by way  of  abundant  caution.Lastly,	  there	 was  an  application  for  leave  to	fileadditional  documents  in  the appeal  that  has  just	beendisposed  of. It was Civil Misc.  Petition No. 472 of  1956.None  of  these applications were pressed and  we  thereforedismiss them but without any order for costs.		     Appeal allowed, cause remitted.327