PETITIONER:MENAKURU DASARATHARAMI REDDI	Vs.RESPONDENT:DUDDUKURU SUBBA RAODATE OF JUDGMENT:10/05/1957BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  797		  1957 SCR 1122ACT:Hindu	 Law--Charitable    Endowment-Compromise    decree--Construction-Trust or charge-Intention of the donor-Test.HEADNOTE:A  Hindu father executed a registered deed of  trust  givingaway  his  properties  to  public  charities  and  appointedhimself and two others as trustees.  The son in assertion byhis  right  to a moiety share therein  started	to  alienatethem.  There was litigation between the trustees and the sonwhich ultimately ended in a compromise decree for  partitionbetween	 the  father  and the son, the	two  other  trusteeshaving retired pending litigation.  After the death of	boththe father and the son a suit was brought under1123S.   92 of the Code of Civil Procedure for the framing of  ascheme for the administration of the trust.  The trial courtheld  that  the	 trust	deed had  been	substituted  by	 thecompromise  decree which itself created a trust and  decreedthe suit on that basis.	 On appeal by two of the  defendantswho were transferees in possession of some of the propertiesin  suit, the High Court affirmed the decision of the  trialcourt holding that the compromise decree created a trust forpublic	charities in respect of the properties	allotted  tothe   third  plaintiff,	 meaning  the  father.	  The	saiddefendants  appealed to this Court.  The principal  questionfor  decision  was  one of construction	 of  the  compromisedecree,	 whether  it  created  a trust	or  a  charge.	 Therelevant terms of the compromise decree were as follows:-" that as regards the aforesaid schedule property, the thirdplaintiff should be the 'sole trustee' till his lifetime forthe  purpose  of conducting the charities described  in	 thetrust  deed, dated 17th March, 1919, and he  should  utilisethe income derived therefrom for the charities according  tothe  necessity and should enjoy the said property  till	 hislifetime without rights to gift, sale etc., therein ;that  after his death, the said entire property should	passon  to	his  grandson  Ramalingeswara  Rao  subject  to	 the(performance of) the aforesaid kainkaryams (charities) ;that if the third plaintiff should die before the expiry  ofthe minority of the aforesaid Ramalingeswara Rao arrangementshould	be made to have a guardian appointed  through  Courtfor  the property made to pass to the  said  RainalingeswaraRao,  the  said	 guardian  should  take	 possession  of	 theproperty  and  conduct the aforesaid charities	and  deliverpossession  of	the same to the said Ramalingeswara  Rao  assoon as the minor attains majority ;that, thereafter the said Ramalingeswara Rao should  conductthe above mentioned charities and enjoy the properties :"Hald, that the courts below were in error in construing	 thecompromise  decree in the way they did and the	appeal	mustsucceed.There  can  be	no doubt from the terms	 of  the  compromisedecree read as a whole that what was intended to be  createdwas  a charge and not a trust in respect of  the  propertiesallotted   to  the  father  which  retained  their   privatecharacter.The principles of Hindu Law applicable to questions relatingto  charitable	trust are well settled.	 Whether  or  not  adedication  to	charity	 is  complete  must  depend  on	 theintention  of  the donor which has to be gathered  from	 theterms  of  the	document in any particular case	 read  as  awhole.	 If the dedication is complete, a trust is  created,if not, a charge follows.  The mere use of the word  'trust'or  'trustee'  cannot  by itself be  conclusive	 as  to	 theintention of the donor and the real test is whether  privatetitle1124over the property is sought to be extinguished by a completetransfer of it to the charity.Maharani Hemanta Kumati Debi v. Gauri Shankar Tewari, (1940)L.  R.	68 I.A. 53, Jadu Nath Singh v.	Thakur	Sita  Ramji,(1917) L.R. 44 I.A. 187, Pande Har Narayan v. Surja Kunwari,(1921) L.R. 48 I.A. 143, Sonatun Bysack v. Sreemutti juggul-soondyee Dossee, 8 Moo.	 I.A. 66 and Gopal Lal Sett v. PurnaChandya Basak, (1921) L.R. 49 I.A. 100, applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 185 of 1952.Appeal from the judgment and order dated December 15,  1948,of  the Madras High Court in Appeal No. 155 of 1946  arisingout  of the decree dated October 27, 1945, in Original	SuitNo. 132 of 1944.Alladi Kuppuswami and M. S. K. Sastri, for the appellants.T.   V. R. Tatachari and T. M. Sen, for respondent No. 4.1957.  May 10.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by   GAJFNDRAGADKAR J.-This is an appeal by defendants 47	 and48  and	 the  principal question which	is  raised  for	 ourdecision in the appeal is whether the properties in suit arethe subject matter of public charitable trust or are  merelyburdened  or  charged with the obligation in favour  of	 thespecified charities.  The suit from which this appeal ariseswas filed with the sanction of the Collector under s. 92  ofthe Cc de of Civil Procedure and the plaintiffs alleged thatthe  properties in suit were the subject-matter of a  publiccharitable trust and that a scheme may be framed for the ad-ministration of the said trust.	 The present, appellants whoare in possession of a substantial portion of the propertiesin suit as alienees have resisted this claim.  They concededthat  the  properties  in their hands were  subject  to	 thecharge	in favour of the charities but they denied that	 thesaid  properties  were the subject-matter  of  a  charitabletrust.	Several other pleas were made by the parties but theprincipal question in dispute between them was in regard  tothe character of the properties in suit.  Both the learned1125trial  judge  and the High Court of Madras have	 upheld	 theplaintiffs' plea.  It has been declared that the  propertiesin  question are trust properties and a direction  has	beenissued	that  a	 scheme of management should  be  framed  inrespect of the trust with a view to carry out the charitableintentions  of	the  settlor.  It is this  decree  which  ischallenged  before us by Mr. Alladi Kuppuswami on behalf  ofdefendants 47 and 48 and his argument is that the view takenby the Courts below about the character of the properties isbased upon a misconstruction of the decree in question.In the plaint, it was alleged that one Purushottam had	beenearning	 and  purchasing large properties and  endowing	 anddedicating  them for public charitable purpose	since  1896.In about 1919 Purushottam who had then become old wanted  toplace  the charities which he had been till then  personallyadministering  on a permanent and enduring basis.   That  iswhy he executed and registered a deed of trust on March	 17,1919.	By  this  document,  a	trust  in  respect  of	 hisproperties was created and three trustees were appointed  toadminister the trust.  Purushottam himself was one of  thesetrustees and two Advocates, Mr. Reballa Subbarayudu and	 Mr.C.  Viswanadha Rao, were his co-trustees.  It  would  appearthat  Purushottam's  son Ramakrishnayya did not	 approve  ofthis arrangement and he began to obstruct the administrationof  the	 trust.	 As a result of	 this  obstructive  attitudeadopted by Ramakrishnayya, two suits had to be filed by	 thetrustees  against  Ramakrishnayya  and	his  associates	 whointerfered  with  the management of the	 trust.	  These	 twosuits  were O.S. No. 599 of 1919 and O.S. No. 68 of 1920  onthe  files of the District Munsiff's Court, Kavali, and	 theDistrict   Court,   Nellore,   respectively.	They	weresubsequently  transferred  to the  Sub-Court,  Nellore,	 andnumbered  as O.S. No. 39 of 1921 and O.S. No. 67 of 1921  inthe said Court.	 Pending the hearing of these suits, the twoadvocates  trustees  withdrew  from the	 suits	leaving	 theconduct	 of  the  suits solely	in  charge  of	Purushottam.Ultimately  the two suits ended in a compromise.   Accordingto the plaint in the present suit out of the which this1126appeal has arisen, this compromise decree was fraudulent andcollusive  the	object of the parties being  to	 efface	 thecharacter  of the trust properties completely and to  createindividual rights in Purushottam, his son Ramakrishnayya andthe  other  defendants	who  claimed  to  be  alienees	fromRamakrishnayya.	 The plaint even alleged that, in persuadingthe  Court to pass the said compromise decree,	the  partieseffectively played fraud on the Court and the trust.   Sincethe compromise was thus null and void, it cannot affect	 theoriginal trust created by Purushottam in 1919.	That is	 whythe plaint alleged that the properties mentioned in sch.   Awhich  were  covered by the original deed of trust  of	1919were trust properties and asked in substance for the framingof a scheme for the administration of the said trust.At  the	 date  of this suit both  Purushottam  and  his	 sonRamakrishnayya	  were	  dead.	    Ramakrishnayya's	 sonRamalingeswara Rao was therefore impleaded as defendant	 No.1.  A large number of defendants had to be impleaded to	 thesuit  because  the  properties had been	 alienated  both  byRamakrishnayya and Ramalingeswara Rao to several purchasers.Defendants  47 and 48 were two of such purchasers.  On	June7,  1942, an agreement of sale by defendant No. 1 in  favourof  defendants	47  and 48 was executed	 and  a	 decree	 forspecific performance was ultimately passed in their  favour.It was then that defendants 47 and 48 were impleaded to thissuit  on  January 3, 1944.  These  defendants  substantiallyadopted	  the  defence	raised	by  the	  other	  contestingdefendants  who were already on the record.   The  principalcontention  raised on their behalf was that  the  compromisedecree was not fraudulent or collusive, that it	 representeda  fair and bona fide family settlement between	 Purushottamand  his  son  Ramakrishnayya and as  such  the	 decree	 wasbinding	 against Purushottam and the trust alleged  to	havebeen created by him in 1919.On  the	 pleadings of the parties, the learned	trial  judgeframed	ten issues.  He found that the suit  was  competent,that the compromise decree was not shown to be collusive  orfraudulent and it was binding on the1127trust.	Even so, the said compromise decree itself created atrust  in favour of public charities and in respect  of	 theproperties which had been allotted by" the compromise decreeto  the	 share	of Purushottam.	 It would  be  noticed	thataccording to the plaint the trust for the administration  ofwhich  a scheme was claimed by the plaintiffs was the  trustcreated	 by  Purushottam in 1919.  Since the  learned  trialjudge  held  that  this	 trust	deed  had  been	 effectivelysubstituted  by the arrangement evidenced in the  compromisedecree,	 he  proceeded	to  consider  the  effect  of	thiscompromise decree and since he thought that this  compromisedecree	itself	created	 a  trust  in  substitution  of	 theoriginal  trust	 of 1919 he proceeded to pass  a  decree  infavour	of  the	 plaintiffs in respect	of  the	 substitutedtrust.	 This  decree was passed on October 27,	 1945.	 Thematter	was taken to the High Court of Madras by  defendants47  and 48.  On December 15, 1948, the appeal  preferred  bydefendants 47 and 48 was dismissed and the decree passed  bythe  trial Court was confirmed.	 The learned Judges  of	 theHigh  Court of Madras dealt substantially with the  questionof the construction of the compromise decree and, since theycame  to the conclusion that the said decree  constituted  apublic	charitable  trust  in  respect	of  the	  propertiesassigned to the share of Purushottam, they saw no reason  tointerfere  with the decree under appeal.  Two  other  pointswere  raised before the High Court.  They were, whether	 theobligation  arising  out  of the trust	is  annexed  to	 theproperty  that	fell to the share of Purushottam  under	 thecompromise decree and whether the said decree was  collusiveand not binding on the trust.  The High Court took the	viewthat,  since the. compromise decree itself created  a  trustand it was possible to give relief to the plaintiffs on thatview, it was not necessary to consider the said two  points.Defendants  47 and 48 then preferred the present  appeal  tothis  Court.   By our interlocutory judgment  on  March	 30,1955, we sent the case back to the High Court of Andhra withthe direction that they should record their findings on	 thetwo  additional points which were urged before them  but  onwhich they thought it1128unnecessary   to  make	findings.   In	pursuance  of	thisinterlocutory judgment, the High Court of Andhra to whom theproceedings  were transferred owing to the creation  of	 thenew State of Andhra have now recorded their findings on	 thetwo issues in question.	 They have held that the  obligationin  question  is annexed to the property that  fell  to	 theshare  of Purushottam under the compromise decree  and	theyhave found that the said compromise decree was not collusiveand  was  binding on the trust.	 That is how  the  principalquestion which we have to consider in the present appeal  isthe construction of the compromise decree in question.The principles of Hindu Law applicable to the  considerationof  questions of dedication of property to charity are	wellsettled.   Dedication to charity need not necessarily be  byinstrument  or grant.  It can be established by	 cogent	 andsatisfactory evidence of conduct of the parties and user  ofthe  property  which  show the extinction  of  the,  privatesecular	  character  of	 the  property	and   its   completededication  to	charity.  On the other hand, in	 many  casesCourts have to deal with grants or gifts showing  dedicationof property to charity.	 Now it is clear that dedication  ofa property to religious or charitable purposes may be eithercomplete or partial.  If the dedication is complete, a trustin  favour of public religious charity is created.   If	 thededication  is partial, a trust in favour of the charity  isnot  created  but  a  charge in favour	of  the	 charity  isattached  to,  and follows, the property which	retains	 itsoriginal  private  and secular character.   Whether  or	 notdedication is complete would naturally be a question of factto  be determined in each case in the light of the  materialterms  used in the document.  In such cases it is  always  amatter of ascertaining the true intention of the parties; itis  obvious that such intention must be gathered on  a	fairand reasonable construction of the document considered as  awhole.	The use of the word "trust" or "trustee" is no doubtof some help in determining such intention; but the mere useof  such words cannot be treated as decisive of the  matter.Is the private title over the property intended1129to  be completely extinguished ? Is the title in  regard  tothe  property intended to be completely transferred  to	 thecharity ? The answer to these questions can be found not  byconcentrating  on  the significance of the use of  the	word"trustee" or "trust" alone but by gathering the true  intentof the document considered as a whole.	In some cases  wheredocuments  purport to dedicate property in favour of  publiccharity,  provision  is	 made for  the	maintenance  of	 theworshipper who may be a member of the family of the originalowner of the property himself and in such cases the questionoften  arises whether the provision for the  maintenance  ofthe  manager  or  the  worshipper from	the  income  of	 theproperty  indicates  an intention that the  property  shouldretain its original character and should merely be  burdenedwith an obligation in favour of the charity.  If the  incomeof the property is substantially intended to be used for thepurpose	 of the charity and only an insignificant and  minorportion	 of it is allowed to be used for the maintenance  ofthe  worshipper or the manager, it may be possible  to	takethe  view  that dedication is complete.	 If,  on  the  otherhand, for the maintenance of public charity a minor  portionof  the	 income	 is expected or required to be	used  and  asubstantial  surplus is left in the hands of the manager  orworshipper  for	 his  own  private  purposes,  it  would  bedifficult  to accept the theory of complete dedication.	  Itis  naturally difficult to lay down a general rule  for	 thesolution  of the problem.  Each case must be  considered  onits  facts  and	 the  intention	 of  the  parties  must	  bedetermined on reading the document as a whole.In Maharani Hemanta Kumari Debi v. Gauri Shankar Tewari	 andOthers (1), Sir George Rankin, who delivered the judgment ofthe  Board  has	 observed, "In the usual  case	of  completededication made to an idol, for example, the property ceasesaltogether to belong to the donor, and becomes vested in theidol  as a juristic person.  Complete relinquishment by	 theowner of his proprietary right is, however, by no means	 theonly form of dedication known to Hindu law, and is(1) (1940) L.R. 68 I.A. 53, 63.1451130very  different	 from  anything	 that  could  ordinarily  beinferred  from	the  public user of  a	highway.   From	 thestandpoint of the Hindu law 'it is not essential to a  validdedication that the legal title should pass from the  owner,nor is it inconsistent with an effectual dedication that theowner  should continue to make any and all uses of the	landwhich  do  not	interfere  with the uses  for  which  it  isdedicated'  per	 Mookerjee  J. in  Chairman  of	 the  HowrahMunicipality  v.  Khetra Krishna Mitra (1).  "	The  learnedJudge  has  further added that when the dedication  is	onlypartial	 the property in some parts of India might none	 theless  in  Common  parlance be  described  as  debotter,	 butwhether it be charged with a sum of Money for the worship ofan  idol or be subjected to a right of limited user  on	 thepart of the public,it would descend and be alienable in	 theordinary  way.	The only difference, as Mr. Mayne  observes,is that it passes with it a charge upon it.In  Jadu  Nath	Singh v. Thakur Sita  Ramji  (2)  the  PrivyCouncil was dealing with a deed of dedication which providedthat  after the death of the grantor certain female  membersof his family should succeed him as managers, that half	 theincome	should be enjoyed by the managers without  power  ofalienation,  that upon the death of the named  managers	 theGovernment  should become manager and the whole	 net  incomeshould	then be applied to the expenses of the temple.	 ThePrivy  Council held that the deed was a valid  endowment  ofthe  whole property to the temple and that the donor had  norights	in  it	against either the  idol  or  the  managers.Dealing	 with the argument that in the hands of	 the  femalemembers	 of  the grantor's family liberty was given  to	 thesaid members to enjoy half the income, Lord Haldane observedthat " If the income of the property had been large, a ques-tion  might  have  been raised, in  the.  circumstances,  asthrowing  some	doubt upon the integrity  of  the  settler'sintention, but, as the entire income is only 800 rupees,  itis  obvious that the payment to these ladies is of the	mosttrifling  kind, and certainly not an amount which one  wouldexpect in a case of that kind." Lord(1) (1906) 4 Cal.  L.J. 343, 348.(2) (1917) L.R. 44 I.A. 187, 190.1131Haldane then emphasized the clear expression of the  initialintention  of  the donor to apply the whole  estate  of	 thedonor  to  the benefit of the temple and he added  that	 therest is only a gift to the idol sub modo by a direction thatof  the	 whole which had already been given part  is  to  beapplied for the upkeep of the idol itself and the repair  ofthe  temple  and the other is to go for the  upkeep  of	 themanagers.   That  is  how in the end it was  held  that	 thedocument showed complete dedication in favour of the idol.In  Pande,  Har	 Narayan v. Surja  Kunwari  (1),  the  PrivyCouncil has observed that in determining whether the will ofa  Hindu gives the testator's estate to an idol	 subject  tothe  charge in favour of the heirs of the testator or  makesthe  gift to the idol a charge upon the estate, there is  nofixed rule depending upon the use of particular terms in thewill.	The  question depends upon the construction  of	 thewill  as a whole.  In this particular case, though the	willhad  provided  that the property of the	 testator  shall  beconsidered  to	be property of a certain  idol,	 there	werefurther	 provisions  which  showed that	 the  residue  afterdefraying  the expenses of, the temple shall be used by	 thetestator's  legal  heirs to meet their own expenses  and  itappeared  that only a small proportion of the  total  incomecould  be utilised for the idol whereas a large balance	 wasavailable to the heirs.	 On these facts, it was held by	 thePrivy  Council that the intention disclosed by the  documentwas  that the heirs should take the property subject to	 thecharge	for the performance of the religious purposes  namedin  the will.  Lord Shaw, who delivered the judgment of	 theBoard,	cited  with  approval the  earlier  observations  ofTurner	L. J. in Sonatun Bysack v. Sreemutti  JuggutsoondreeDossee	(2 ). Turner L. J. had stated: " although  the	willpurports  to  begin with an absolute gift in favour  of	 theidol, it is plain that the testator contemplated that  therewas  to	 be some distribution of the property  according  asevents	might turn out; and that he did not intend  to	givethis  property	absolutely  to	the  idol  seems  to   theirLordships to be clear from the directions(1) (1921) L.R.	 I.A. 143.(2) 8 Moo.  I. A. 66.1132which  are  contained in the various clauses of	 the  will."Similarly, in Gopal Lal Sett v. Purna Chandra Basak(1),	 thePrivy Council held that the will of the Hindu testatrix withwhich  they  were  concerned  in  this	case  conferred	 theproperties  specified  on  the	grandson  charged  with	 themaintenance  of	 the  worship but that	no  shebaitship	 wascreated.  The will in question had provided that out of	 theincome	of  the	 specified  property,  her  grandson  shouldperform	 the  worship of certain family idols  and  that  heshould	be in charge of the worship.  The will contained  nogift,  express	or implied, to the idols, and there  was  noprovision  for the worship after the death of the  grandson.It  is in the light of these decisions that we will have  toconstrue the compromise decree in the present case.Before	considering  the  terms of  the	 compromise  decree,however,  it would be relevant to mention some	more  facts.After  Purushottam  had executed a deed of  trust  in  1919,troubles arose in his own family.  His son apparently  beganto  assert his share in the property which was the  subject-matter of the said trust and he actually started to alienatehis  alleged  undivided share in the  said  property.	Thatindeed	was the genesis of the two suits initially filed  bythe  three  trustees in 1919-1920.  In O.S. No. 30  of	1921itself,	 an alternative claim appears to have been  made  byPurushottam  when  he was left in sole charge  of  the	suitafter  the withdrawal from the suit by his co-trustees.	  Heclaimed	 a declaration that he was entitled to	recover	 thepossession  of the property as mentioned in sch.  A and	 A-1of  the	 claim, or, in the alternative, that  he  should  bedeclared to be entitled to the title of the property jointlywith  his  son Ramakrishnayya and the partition in  the	 twoshares	of  the same may be directed and he may	 be  put  inpossession of such property as would fall to his share.	  Inother  words, the first claim was based on the	validity  ofthe  original  trust  deed created by  Purushottam  and	 thesecond	)#as based on the assumption that the trust was	 notvalid,	that  the property, the subject-matter of  the	saidtrust was liable to be divided between(1)  (1921) L.R. 49 I.A. 100.1133Purushottam  and  his  son  and	 a  prayer  was	 made	thatPurushottam  should be allotted his share by a partition  ofall  the property by metes and bounds.	As a result  of	 thecompromise  decree  passed in this suit, the  property	overwhich  Purushottam had created a trust in 1919	was  dividedbetween	 himself and his son Ramakrishnayya and some of	 theproperty  which was not included in the trust deed  of	1919but which was also the subject-matter of the suit itself wasallotted  to  the share of Purushottam.	 The  property	thusallotted to the share of Purushottam formed part of sch.   1and  it	 is  in	 respect of  this  property  that  a  publiccharitable trust has been created according to the  findingsof the Courts below.  For the appellants, it is urged beforeus  that this view is erroneous.  We will now  consider	 therelevant terms of the compromise decree.  Clause (1) of	 thedecree	provides  that	the property described	in  sch.   1attached  to the decree should go to the share of the  thirdplaintiff,  viz., Purushottam.	It appears that	 four  itemsincluded  in  sch.   1	had been  sold	by  defendant  I  todefendants  13 and 14.	These alienees, however,  agreed  togive up their claim in respect of these properties.   Clause(1) then reads as follows: "that as regards the aforesaid schedule property, the thirdplaintiff  should be the ' sole trustee ' till his  lifetimefor the purpose of conducting the charities described in thetrust  deed, dated 17th March, 1919, and he  should  utilisethe income derived therefrom, for the charities according tothe  necessity and should enjoy the said property  till	 hislifetime  without rights to gift, sale etc.,  therein;    that  after	 his death, the said entire  property  shouldpass  on to his grandson Ramalingeswara Rao subject  to	 the(performance of) the aforesaid kainkaryams (charities);    that if the third plaintiff should die before the expiryof   the  minority  of	the  aforesaid	Ramalingeswara	 Raoarrangement  should  be made to have  a	 guardian  appointedthrough	 Court	for the property made to pass  to  the	saidRamalingeswara Rao the ,said guardian should take possessionof the property1134and  conduct the aforesaid charities and deliver  possessionof  the same to the said Ramalingeswara Rao as soon  as	 theminor attains majority;that, thereafter the said Ramalingeswara Rao should  conductthe above mentioned charities and enjoy the properties;"Then  cls. (2) and (3) deal with the claims of	defendant  1and  defendants 10, 11 and 12.	Clause (4) directs that	 theproperties  allotted  to the share of  the  third  plaintiffshould	be immediately delivered to him by  the	 defendants;and el. (5) provides that the third plaintiff should give upall  other  claims in respect of the suit  and	the  partiesshould bear their own respective costs.At this stage it may be relevant to refer to the particularsof  charities  for  whose benefit  admittedly  the  decretalprovision  in el. (1) has been made.  These particulars	 arementioned in para. 6 of the original deed of trust and it isnot  disputed  that  the burden imposed by cl.	(1)  of	 thedecree is in favour of the same charities.  These  charitiesare nine in number and they are thus enumerated in the	deedof trust:"(1)  In the choultry constructed in the land in Survey	 No.81, all persons who pass to and fro in Doranala Road, shouldbe  given  drinks  to quench thirst,  everyday	two  brahmintravellers should be given food at noon.(2)  For  the  purpose	of  Mahanaivaidyam  (food  offering)taking	place  every  night  to	 Sree  Malleswaraswami	Varuenshrined in the aforesaid Damaramadugu village, 12 tooms ofpaddy  and Rs. 6 in cash should be given to the	 trustee  ofthe said Devasthanam.(3)  During the time of Brahmotsavam of Sri  Malleswaraswamiand  Sri Kamakshi Thayi Garu, in Jonnavada which  is  takingplace  every year, Rs. 10 (rupees ten) should be paid  everyyear  in  respect of the Ravana Seva Ubbayam that  is  beingconducted by the Damaramadugu villagers.(4)  During the Brahmotsavam time of Sri Jonnavada  KamakshiThayi that takes place every year,1135Rs. 40 (rupees forty) should be spent for 'Ekanthaseva'	 andthe trustees should be present and see that the said Ubbayamis properly conducted.(5)  Rs.  12 should be paid every year towards	Deeparadhanaexpenses   during  nights  to  Sri  Veeranjaneyaswami	Varuenshrined in Pata Santhapeta, Nellore, to the trustee of thesaid Devasthanam.(6)  From  out of the said fund, Rs. 42 per year  should  bepaid to poor Brahmin boys reading in classes commencing fromfourth	form  and  upward in the High  School,	towards	 theschool	fees.  Now, this amount shall be paid to  AmperayaniVenkatakrishnayya who is reading in the Kurnool School, tillhe  stops his study; and after he stops his study, the	thentrustees  are  hereby empowered to give the  money  to	poorBrahmin boy whom they consider as the suitable	  recipient.(7)  If there should be difference of opinion, on any matterrelating  to the management of the aforesaid charities,	 theopinion	 of the majority trustees shall prevail and it	willbe given effect to.(8)  The trustees shall exercise all powers in the matter ofthe  management	 of these charities, viz.,  to	appoint	 thenecessary staff; to remove them; to suspend them; to  imposefine;  and  to	make  all  arrangements	 for  the  staff  todischarge their duties efficiently.(9)  The trustees are fully empowered to now and then  grantcowles	in  respect of the  schedule-mentioned	property  toindividuals and to have muchilikas executed and in the eventof  any disputes arising at any time through any person,  inrespect	 of  the  said property, to  institute	and  conductsuitable  proceedings  in proper Courts, to  get  over	suchdisputes;  and also to incur the necessary expenditure	fromout of the income from the aforesaid endowments."It  would be clear that el. (1) of the compromise decree  isthe  foundation of the theory, that a public trust had	beencreated	 in respect of the properties allotted to the  shareof Purushottam.	 In dealing with this clause, the High Courtof Madras appears to have  attached considerable  importanceto the fact that1136Purushottam had already, in unequivocal terms, expressed hisintention  to create a trust of his own properties in  1919.There is no doubt that the document of 1919 creates a publiccharitable  trust.  In construing cl. (1) of the  compromisedecree,	 the  learned  Judges of the High  Court  of  Madrasappear to have assumed that this clause was really  intendedto  confirm  the  earlier creation of the  trust  though  inrespect	 of different properties.  With respect,  in  makingthis  assumption,  the learned Judges appear to	 have  over-looked	the sharp distinction between the words used in	 thetrust deed of 1919 and in cl. (1) of the compromise  decree.The trust deed had appointed three trustees and by cl.	(12)had specifically provided that the amounts described in	 theschedule  and  the income that will increase and  accrue  infuture shall be utilised for the above charities only and itshall not be used for private purposes.	 In other words, el.(12)  emphatically prohibits the use of the income from	 theproperty  for  any private purpose and	in  terms  dedicatesentirely the whole of the property and its income for publiccharitable  purposes.	Clause	(3) of the  trust  deed	 hadappointed three trustees, had provided for the management ofthe  trust  and	 the keeping of the  accounts.	 Under	thisclause,	 all  the trustees should join together and  hold  ameeting	 once  a  month	 in the	 choultry  and	examine	 theaccounts and consider the other details of management.	 Thedeed  has  further  provided for the  appointment  of  othertrustees  in  case of vacancy occurring either by  death  orresignation.   Now let us look at cl. (1) in the  compromisedecree.	 It is true that the third plaintiff is described inthis  clause as the sole trustee till his lifetime.   It  isalso true that, as the sole trustee, he is allowed to  enjoythe  said  property till his lifetime "	 without  rights  togift,  sale  etc., in the same." The use of the	 word  "soletrustee"  is no doubt relevant and its full effect  must  betaken	into   account	but  its  significance	 cannot	  beexaggerated.   It  is really difficult to understand  how  asole trustee could enjoy the property.	The enjoyment of theproperty inevitably suggests the right to enjoy the propertyin one's right and this notion is not easily		    1137reconcilable  with the theory of complete dedication of	 theproperty in favour of charity.	Even so, we will assume thatthe  use of the word " sole trustee " is a factor in  favourof  the plaintiffs.  In the same clause, there is,  however,another indication which is inconsistent with this theory ofcomplete  dedication.  The income of the property has to  beutilised  for  charities according to  the  necessity.	 Thecontrast  between  this provision and the provision  in	 cl.(12)  of  the earlier deed of trust  is	 obvious.   Whereas,under  the  earlier deed the whole of the income had  to  beutilised  only for the purpose of charity, under el. (1)  ofthe decree a part of the income is to be utilised  accordingto the need of the charity.  Then, after the death of  Puru-shottam,  the clause provides that the property should	passon to his grandson Ramalingeswara Rao subject to the purposeof  the aforesaid charities.  The notion that  the  propertyhas  to	 pass  from Purushottam	 to  Ramalingeswara  Rao  isconsistent  with Purushottam's title to the property and  isinconsistent  with  the	 title	of  the	 idol  in  the	saidproperty.  This clause about the devolution of the title  infavour	of the grandson clearly and  unequivocally  suggeststhat  all that Purushottam wanted to achieve by this  clausewas  to leave his private title unimpaired except  with	 theburden	or charge in favour of charity.	 This clause can  becontrasted with cl. (4) of the trust deed which provides forthe subsequent appointment of trustees.	 Then the  provisionabout the appointment of the guardian of Ramalingeswara	 Raoduring his minority is also inconsistent with the theory  ofcomplete  dedication.  It is difficult to appreciate  how  aguardian of a minor trustee can be appointed in this way  inrespect	 of properties which do not belong to the minor	 butare   trust   properties.   It	is,  however,	urged	thatPurushottam  as	 the sole trustee is  positively  prohibitedfrom making the gift of the property or selling the propertyby the first part of el. (1) and that Prima facie  indicatesthat Purushottam was not an absolute owner of the  property;but  in	 judging the effect of this prohibition,  we  cannotlose  sight  of the fact that a similar prohibition  is	 notincluded in the decree when the decree deals1461138with the rights of the grandson of Purushottam.	 Reading theclause	as  a  whole,  it seems	 to  us	 fairly	 clear	thatPurushottam  wanted the property to devolve on his  grandsonand  treated  the property as his private property  in	thatbehalf.	  Since	 that was the intention	 of  Purushottam  norestraint  has	been  imposed  on  the	absolute  title	  ofRamalingeswara	Rao  and he has been apparently	 given	fullliberty to deal with the property as he likes except that hewas  under  an obligation to the charity in  question.	 Thelast portion of the clause authorises Ramalingeswara Rao  toconduct	 the  above  mentioned charities and  to  enjoy	 theproperty.  This clause again is wholly inconsistent with thetheory	of complete dedication and merely suggests  that  inthe  hands of Ramalingeswara Rao as well as in the hands  ofhis  successors	 or  transferees the  property	would  standburdened  with	the obligation to perform the  charities  inquestion.  We have carefully considered the terms of cl. (1)of this decree and we are satisfied that it is difficult  tohold on these terms that the property allotted to the  shareof   Purushottam  under	 the  decree  was  intended  to	  becompletely  dedicated  in  favour  of  charities.   In	 ouropinion, the learned Judges of the High Court of Madras werein  error  in  construing  this	 clause	 as  evidencing	 thecreation  of  a public charitable trust.  We  are  satisfiedthat  the  properties  continue	 to  be	 the  properties  ofPurushottam  until his death and on his death they  devolvedupon  his grandson Ramalingeswara Rao subject always to	 theburden of performing the charities mentioned in the  earlierdeed of trust.For  the Advocate-General of Andhra who has been allowed  torepresent  charities in the present case after the death  ofthe  original plaintiffs, Mr. Tatachari has urged that	eventhough	the compromise decree may not indicate the  creationof  a  public trust that would not  necessarily	 defeat	 theplaintiffs' claim.  He contends that the trust of 1919 whichhad   been   validly  created  by  Purushottam	 cannot	  beeffectively  effaced  by the  subsequent  compromise  decreebetween	 Purushottam and his son and the alienees  from	 hisson.   Mr.  Tata  chari	 has referred  us  to  the  materialallegations in the1139plaint	where it has been suggested that in agreeing to	 thecompromise  decree  Purushottam was in substance  guilty  ofbreach	of trust.  We do not propose to consider the  meritsof this interesting argument because, in our opinion, it  istoo late for the plaintiffs to raise such a point.  We	havealready mentioned that one of the issues specifically raisedbetween the parties in the present litigation was in  regardto the nature and effect of the compromise decree.  In	factwe  have  already  indicated that, when we  found  that	 thelearned	 Judges	 of  the  High	Court  of  Madras  had	 notconsidered  this  issue, by our	 interlocutory	judgment  weinvited	 the  High Court to consider this issue	 along	withanother.   The	position now is that both the  Courts  belowhave  found that the compromise decree was not collusive  orfraudulent 'and it binds the trust.  The respondent has	 notfiled  any  objection to the finding submitted by  the	HighCourt of Andhra in pursuance to our interlocutory  judgment.Indeed, if the plaintiffs had adhered to their original casethey  should  have insisted upon obtaining a  decree  for  ascheme	of  the original trust of 1919.	 It is true  that  adecree	for a scheme was passed in favour of the  plaintiffsbut  this  decree  was	passed	on  the	 assumption  that  asubsequent compromise decree had created a public trust.  Itis  clear  from	 the  plaint that  the	plaintiffs  had	 notalternatively  asked for a scheme of the  subsequent  trust.That being so, it was really necessary for the plaintiffs tohave  preferred an appeal against the trial  Court's  decreeand urged that the original trust deed had not been  effacedand  that  it  was still subsisting not	 with  standing	 thecompromise  decree  and that a scheme should  be  framed  inrespect	 of  the said original trust.  It appears  that	 theplaintiffs were content to acquiesce in the finding that thesubsequent  compromise decree bound the original trust	deedand,  as matters then stood, it did not make  any  practicaldifference to the plaintiffs' case because they got a schemefor  the administration of the trust though  new  propertieswere  substituted  for the old to  constitute  the  subject-matter	of  the	 trust;	 but  in  law  the  conduct  of	 theplaintiffs  amounted  to an admission  that  the  compromisedecree 1140offaced	 the  original trust in that the properties  of	 thetrust  were changed in the manner indicated in	the  decree.Before	the High Court of Madras, the only point  which	 theplaintiffs  urged was that the compromise decree  created  atrust.	It is true that this compromise decree was  intendedfor the benefit of the charities covered by the earlier deedof trust and the argument was that the properties which wereallotted  to  the  share of Purushottam	 by  the  compromisedecree	should	be deemed to have been substituted  for	 theoriginal  properties  of  the trust.   Having  adopted	thisattitude  it  is now not open to the plaintiffs	 to  contendthat  the  terms of the compromise decree do  not  bind	 thetrust, that the decree per se constituted a breach of  trustand that the original trust is wholly unaffected by whateverPurushottam  did  in  the  subsequent  litigation.   In	 ouropinion, therefore, it is unnecessary to consider the meritsof  the	 contention which Mr. Tatachari attempted  to  raisebefore us.Since  we hold that the compromise decree had not created  apublic trust, it is unnecessary to consider any other point.We  wish  to  make  it	clear  that  Mr.  Alladi  Kuppuswamiexpressly  told us that his clients have always agreed	thatthe  properties	 in  their  hands  are	burdened  with	 theobligation to discharge the charities mentioned in the	deedof  trust executed by Purushottam in 1919.   We	 accordinglydeclare	 that the properties in the hands of the  appellantsare  subject to the charge in favour of the said  charities.However	 since the plaintiffs' case for a scheme has  failedthe  appeal  must be allowed and the plaintiffs'  suit	dis-missed.	  As the Advocate-General has appeared before us  tosupport	 the  case  of the charities,  we  direct  that	 theparties should bear their costs throughout.			    Appeal allowed.			1141