PETITIONER:1.    R. MUTHAMMAL (Died)2.   PARAMESWARI THAYAMMAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:SRI SUBRAMANIASWAMI DEVASTHANAM,TIRUCHENDURDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/01/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1960 AIR  601		  1960 SCR  (2) 729ACT:Hindu  Law-Exclusion  from inheritance-Lunacy,	if  must  becongenital.HEADNOTE:A  Hindu was found to be a lunatic when	 succession  opened.It  was	 claimed  that	under  the  texts  lunacy  must	  becongenital to exclude from inheritance.Held,  under  the Hindu law lunacy as distinct	from  idiocyneed  not be congenital to exclude from inheritance,  if  itexisted when succession opened.Muthusami  v.  Meenammal.  (1920)  I.L.R.  Mad.	 464,  WoomaParshad	 Roy v.	 Grish Chunker Prochundo, (1884)  I.L.R.  10Cal.  639  and Deo Kishen v. Budh Prakash, (1883)  I.L.R.  5All. 509 (F.B.)approved.Murarji Gokuldas v. Parvatibai, (1876) I.L.R. 1 Bom. 177 andSanku v. Puttamma, (1891) I.L.R. 14 Mad. 289, disapproved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.200 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 20,  1943,of  the Madras High Court in A. S. No. 392 of 1943,  arisingout of the judgment and decree dated March 30, 1943, of	 theSub Judge, Tuticorin in O.    S. No. 34 of 1939.S.   V.	 Venugopalachariar  and	 S.  K.	 Aiyangar,  for	 theappellant No. 2.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri,  R.  Ganaapathy  Iyer  and	  G.Gopalakrishna, for respondent No. 1.1960.  January 14.  The judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyHIDAYATULLAH J.-This appeal has been filed on  leave grantedby the High Court of Madras against its judgment and  decreedated  January	20,  1947,  by	which  the  decree  of	 theSubordinate  Judge,  Tuticorin, dated March  30,  1943,	 wassubstantially modified.93730Before	the application for leave to appeal to the  JudicialCommittee  could  be filed, the	 first	defendant  (RamasamiPillai) died, and the application for leave  was  filed	  byhis widow, R. Muthammal, who was the	fourth defendant  inthe  suit.  R. Muthammal also died soon afterwards  and	 herplace was taken by Parameswari Thayammal (her daughter	bornof  Ramasami  Pillai), who was the fifth defendant  in	thiscase.  Along   with   these  three  defendants,	 the   othermembers	 of  Ramasami Pillai's family were  also  joined  asdefendants.   The  suit	 was filed  by	Sri  SubramaniaswamiDevasthanam,  Tiruchendur (hereinafter called  for  brevity,the Devasthanam), and the Devasthanam is the only contestingrespondent in this Court.One  Poosa Pichai Pillai had five sons and three  daughters,of  whom  Meenakshisundaram  Pillai died on  May  21,  1919.Before	 his  death  Meenakshisundaram	Pillai	executed   aregistered will on May 20, 1919, and a registered codicil onMay  21,  1919.	  By these documents,  he  left	 his  entireproperty  to  his  only	 son,  M.  Picha  Pillai,  with	 thecondition that should he die without issue, the property wasto go to the Devasthanam.M. Picha Pillai died a bachelor on December 10, 1927.  Threeclaimants  claimed the property after his death.  The  firstnaturally  was the Devasthanam claiming under the gift	overto it.	The other two were the heirs of M. Picha Pillai, whoasserted    that    the	  gift	 over	 was	void,	 andMeenakshisundaram's  wife's brother and	 sister,  ArunachalaIrungol	  Pillai  and  N.S.  Muthammal	(third	 defendant),respectively  who claimed under an alleged will of M.  PichaPillai.	 The heirs of M. Picha Pillai were defendants 7,  8,10,  13	 and 14, the father of defendants 9, and  the  firstdefendant.    These  claimants	denied	the  claim  of	 theDevasthanam,  contended that the will and the codicil  abovementioned  gave an absolute estate to M. Picha	Pillai,	 andthat the gift over to the Devasthanam was, therefore,  void.The Devasthanam filed O.S.No. 57 of 1932 for declaration andpossession  of the properties covered by the will,  togetherwith  other reliefs.  During the pendency of the  suit,	 theheirs of M. Picha			    731Pillai	and  the present defendants 15 and 16  (two  of	 thethree  sons  of Arunachala Irungol  Pillai)  assigned  theirinterest  in favour of the Devasthanam.	 The  result  of thesuit, therefore, was that a decree in favour	  of	 theDevasthanam was passed in regard to the	     interest of theassignors, but it was dismissed as regards  the interest  ofN.S.  Muthammal	 (third	 defendant)  and  Pothiadia  IrungolPillai (second defendant)     who  had not entered into	 thecompromise. It May  be	mentioned here that by Ex.  D-22,  aregistered     agreement  dated May 20, 1928, the heirs	 hadalready	  agreed  to give to Arunachala Irungol	 Pillai	 andN.S. Muthammal one-eighth share each respectively in	 theproperties of M. Picha Pillai. Thus, by this compromise	 theDevasthanam received 5/6th share of	the properties of M.Picha Pillai, the remaining 1/6th, going    to	   PothiadiaIrungol Pillai (1/24th) and N.S.   Muthammal  (1/8th).	 TheDevasthanam filed an	 appeal	 in the High  Court  againstthe dismissal of the	 suit in respect of this 1/6th shareand failed. An appeal	was  then  taken  to  the   JudicialCommittee,     which also failed. The judgment of the  PrivyCouncil	  is reported in Sri Subramaniaswami Temple v. Rama-samia Pillai (1).Without waiting, however, for the result of the	  appeal  inso far as the 1/6th share was concerned, the	 Devasthanamfiled the present suit joining the two	sets  of   claimantsfor declaration, ejectment and	   possession  by  partitionof the properties to which it claimed  title and  for  mesneprofits. The properties	 were  shown  in  various  schedulesannexed to the plaint;	but  it is unnecessary to  refer  tothose schedule except  were  the needs of  the	judgment  sorequire.  One  of the contentions raised by  the  plaintiff-Devasthanam    in   this   suit	  was	that	the    firstdefendant,Ramasami  Pillai, was not entitled to a  share  inthe  properties	 as  an	 heir of M. Picha  Pillai,  being  alunatic	  when	 succession  to	 these	properties   opened.Onbehalf  of  the  first  defendant,  Ramasami	Pillai,	 whocontested   the	  suit	through	 his  wife   and   guardian,R.Muthammal, it was contended that he was not a(1) (1950) 1 M.L.J. 300.732lunatic	 (buddhi swadeenam illadavar) but only a  person  ofweak intellect (buddhi deechanya matra), and thus,he was notexcluded from inheritance.  This point was	 the	mainargument in this appeal, because the two     Courts    belowreached opposite conclusions.  According     to		 theSubordinate  Judge of Tuticorin, Ramasam Pillai's  plea	 wascorrect and proved.  The High Court,	on  the other  hand,held that the mental defect in	   Ramasami Pillai  amountedto lunacy, and that it disentitled him to a share.Connected  with this above matter is the  second  contentionraised	by Ramasami Pillai that he was entitled to  a  1/9thshare by virtue of an alleged agreement stated on  affidavitin Ex.	D-7 by Doraiappa Pillai on April 1, 1931.  We  shallgive  the details of this contention hereafter.	  The  thirdcontention  raised in this appeal and also before  the	HighCourt  was that the properties described in plaint sch.	 4-Awere  the  subject-matter of a decree  dated  September	 19,1927,  in  favour of M. Picha Pillai in O.S.No. 35  of	1924filed  by  him against his cousins.  According	to  RamasamiPillai (first defendant), the decree was not executed for  aperiod	of  12 years and the claim thereto  was,  therefore,barred under s. 48 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and	thusthe  Devasthanam  was  not entitled in this  suit  to  claimpossession of those properties.We shall begin with the question whether Ramasami Pillai wasexcluded from inheritance by reason of his mental  conditionon December 10, 1927.  The argument of the appellant is two-fold.  The first is on the fact whether Ramasami Pillai	 wasa  lunatic  within  the Hindu law texts.  The  second  is  aquestion  of law whether this lunacy was not required to  beproved to have been congenital to disentitle Ramasami Pillaito  succeed  to his father.  We shall deal  with  these	 twoquestions separately.In  view of the fact that the two Courts below	had  reachedopposite  conclusions on the fact of lunacy, we have  lookedinto the evidence in the case, and have heared arguments forthe  appellant.	  We are satisfied that the opinion  of	 theHigh Court is correct in all the circumstances of this case.The argument on behalf733of  the appellant was that in judging this issue  we  shouldsee the evidence regarding the mental condition of  RamasamiPillai	antecedent and subsequent to December 10, 1927,	 theconduct of his father, relatives   and	the other  claimantsof the property. It was	 contended that Ramasami Pillai	 wasattending school.   though  nothing  was shown	to  us	fromwhich  we  infer  that he had profited by  the	attempts  toeducate him.  The appellant, however, set great store by twodocuments,  Exs.   D-1	and D-2,  executed  by	his  father,Perumal	 Pillai, in January and April 1924.  By	 the  first,Perumal	 Pillai released his claim to certain properties  infavour of his four sons, mentioning therein Ramasami  Pillaiwithout	 adverting  to the fact that he was  a	lunatic	 andwithout	 mentioning a guardian.	 By the second, which was  awill, Perumal Pillai gave equal shares in his properties  tohis sons including Ramasami Pillai, and once again without amention	 of  his mental condition.  It	was  contended	thatPerumal	 Pillai	 was  a Sub-Registrar  who  would  know	 theimportance  of such a fact and also the law that  a  lunaticwas  not entitled to succeed.  The fact that the  father  inthese two documents made no mention of the mental  conditionof  his	 son  does not bear upon the present  case  for	 tworeasons.   The first is that the case of Ramasami Pillai  inthis suit was that he was quite sane till 1924, and that hismental	condition  deteriorated only after that	 year.	 Thesecond	is that the omission by the father to  mention	thisfact  might be grounded on love and affection in  which	 theclaim  of  a mentally defective child might  not  have	beenviewed by him in the same manner as the law does.It  was next contended that the other heirs  recognised	 theright  of Ramasami Pillai in April 1928 and agreed  to	givehim  a 1/9th share, as has been already stated above.	Thattoo  would not prove that Ramaswami Pillai was entitled,  inlaw,  to a share.  The compromise (which is also  contested)might have been out of motives of charity but might not havebeen due to the fact that Ramasami Pillai's right to a sharewas legally entertainable.The   evidence,	  however,  of	Ramasami   Pillai's   mentalincapacity is really voluminous.  Between734June  1924 and till his death, numerous suits were filed  bydifferent  members  of the family, including his  wife,	 hiscousins, uncle and aunt, in which Ramasami Pillai was alwaysshown  as  a  lunatic requiring the appointment	 of  a	nextfriend or a guardian-ad-litem.	In one	case   only    whereRamasami Pillai was the second defendant, an appearance	 wasentered on his behalf	 by  a	vakil,	who  contended	thatRamasami  Pillai  was sane and ought to	 be  represented  inperson.	 The Court on that occasion appointed the Head Clerkof the Court as his guardian, and asked him to report  aboutthe condition of Ramasami Pillai.  Ramasami Pillai was	alsoasked to appear in Court in person, so that the Court  mightform  its  own opinion by questioning him.  The	 Head  Clerkvisited Ramasami Pillai and submitted his report, Ex.	P-8,in  which lie described his observations.  It  appears	thatRamasami Pillai did not even give his name when	 questioned,and  appeared  to be woody and silent.	The  relatives	feltthat  he  was  hungry  and fed him;  but  even	after  this,Ramasami  Pillai did not give any answers to  the  questionsput to him in the presence of his wife and others.  The HeadClerk  therefore  reported that the appearance	of  RamasamiPillai as a gloomy and sickly person with a vacant look	 andthat his inability to answer even the simple question  abouthis name, clearly showed that he was insane, This report waspresented to the Court in the presence of the vakil, who hadfiled  the vakalatnama, and on September 20,1924,  an  order(G.   S.  No. 35 of 1924) was recorded	by  the	 SubordinateJudge (Ex.  P-9).  It was mentioned therein that the  reportwas  not objected to by the vakil for Ramasami	Pillai,	 andthat  Ramasami	Pillai was treated as a	 lunatic.   RamasamiPillai himself did not appear.It was contended that this enquiry as well as the fact	thatin  numerous litigations Ramasami Pillai had a	guardian  ornext  friend to look after his interests did not prove	thathe was insane within the meaning of the Hindu law texts;  itonly proved that he was a person incapable of looking  afterhis  interests	and for the purposes of the conduct  of	 thesuits  a guardian or next friend, as the case might be,	 wasnecessary.  In our opinion, the long and continued course ofconduct735on  the	 part of the various relatives	clearly	 shows	thatRamasami  Pillai was, in fact, a lunatic, and the report  ofthe  Head Clerk given in a case long before the present	 onewas  ever contemplated, shows only too clearly that he	was,for  all  intents and purposes, not  only a  person  who wasslightly  mentally  deranged but one who  was  regarded	 andfound to be a lunatic. There being   this   evidence,	thedistinction now sought to bemade and which appealed to theSubordinate Judge of Tuticorin, is not borne out by  theevidence in the case.Such  a long and continuous  courseof conduct clearlyproves  the  contention  that	  RamasamiPillai was, infact, mad. Further, in Ex. D-22 dated May 20,1928, Ramaswami Pillai was not considered as a	claimant,andhis  claims  could  not	 have been  overlooked	by  all	 hisrelatives  simply  because they were to	 get  an  additionalshare each in the property by reasonof	his   exclusion.Some one of his relatives would havefelt  the  need  forasserting the claim on his behalf, ifhe	 himself did  notdo so. In view of the fact that thepreponderance     ofprobabilities is in favour of thedecision   of	the   HighCourt, we do not think that theappellant  has  succeededin establishing the distinction,which  was  made  in  thecase, between a lunatic and aperson  of weak  intellect	 onthe evidence, such as it is.This  brings  us to	 the  nextcontention which is oneof law. It may be pointed out  herethat before theSubordinate  Judge, Ramasami Pillai  didnot raise thecontention	 that as a matter of law  insanitymust becongenital before a person would be excluded frominheritance.   Learned counsel for the	appellant  explainedthat  it was futile to raise this contention in view of	 thedecision of the Madras High Court in Muthusami v.  Meenammal(1),  in  which	 it  was ruled that  insanity  need  not  becongenital  to create the disability, and that	insanity  atthe time succession opened was enough.	The point,  however,appears	 to have been raised in the High Court, but  it	 wasdecided against Ramasami Pillai.  The soundness of this viewis questioned in this appeal.The  argument  shortly is this: The text of Manu  (ix,	201)mentions many causes of exclusion from(1)  (1920) I.L.R. Mad. 464.736inheritance,  some of which like blindness,  muteness,idiocyand lameness, it is settled, must be congenital to exclude aperson	from inheritance.  It is argued that the  collectionof the words in the text suggests that	insanity like  theseother  disabilities must also be congenital.  No doubt,	 theword	"    Unmatha   "   comes	between	   the words"Jatyandhabadhirau"  and " Jadamukascha "; but	the  rulingshave uniformly held that for the madness, the test, that  itshould	be  congenital, does not apply.	  The  argument	 nowraised	has  the  support of the opinion  expressed  by	 Dr.Sarvadhikari in his Principles of Hindu Law Inheritance-(2ndEdn.)  p. 846,where the author expounded the text  accordingto rules of grammar, though he was doubtful if according  tomedical	 science,  madness  as opposed	to  idiocy  is	evercongenital.   The translations of the same text	 by  Setlur,Gharpure and Dr. Ghose do not admit this interpretation.  InMuthusami  v. Meenammal (1), it was pointed out also that  "Unmatha " was not qualified by the word " Jati ".  SeshagiriAyyar,	J.  observed that it according to Mimamsa  rules  ofinterpretation,	 an adjective qualifying one  clause  shouldnot by implication qualify a different clause ". The counselon that occasion agreed that this was the correct approach,but  relied upon the opinion of Dr. Sarvadhikari  which	 wasnot accepted.Learned	 counsel  for  the appellant also  referred  to	 theopinion	 of  Colebrooke	 in his Digest,	 Vol.  11,  p.	432.Colebrooke's  translation  is based upon the  commentary  ofJagannatha Tarkapanchanana, and it is Jagannatha who made nodifference between the various disabilities, and opined thatmadness like blindness or muteness must be also	 congenital.No  doubt,  much weight must be attached to the	 opinion  ofJagannatha  who was " one of the most learned  pandits	thatBengal	had  ever  produced  ".	 But  this  translation	  ofColebrooke  has	 not been universally accepted, and  is	 notborne  out  by the original texts and  commentaries  on	 theMitakshara.  Dr. Ghose in his Hindu Law, Vol. 1, p. 224	 hasexpressed  his	doubts.	 The texts of Narada XIII,  21,	 22,Yajnavalkya  11,  140-141 and others do not  show  that	 thedefect of madness must also be(1)  (1920) I.L R. 43 Mad. 464.		       737congenital.  In	 Saraswati  Vilasa  148,  the  emphasis	  ofcongenital disability is placed on blindness and   deafness.Similarly,  in Smriti Chandrika, Chap. V , 4,  persons	bornblind and deaf are mentioned apart from	 madmen	 and idiots.That idiots must be congenitally so, is ruled by the Courts.The cases that have come before the Courts have	 Devasthanamall been uniform, except Murarji Gokuldas v. Parvatibai (1),where  the observation is obiter and Sanku v. Puttamma	(2),which was dissented from in later cases.  On the other hand,Wooma Pershad Roy v. Grish Chunder Prochundo (3), Deo Kishenv.  Budh Prakash (4) and other decisions have  clearly	heldthe contrary.  In two cases before the Privy Council it	 wasassumed that madness need not be congenital.  It may also benoted that when the Legislature passed the Hindu Inheritance(Removal of Disabilities) Act XII of 1928 making the  changeto  madness from birth as a ground of exclusion the law	 wasnot made retrospective, thus recognising the correctness  ofthe judicial exposition of the original texts.	In this viewof  the matter, we do not think that we should unsettle	 thelaw  on	 the subject; nor has it been made to appear  to  usthat  any  different view is open.  We	accordingly  do	 notaccept the contention.The  result  -is that Ramasami Pillai was  not	entitled  tosucceed	 to  M.	 Picha	Pillai.	 We now	 come  to  the	nextcontention.   It  is  that even if  this  be  the  position,Ramasami Pillai was entitled to 1/9th share on the basis  ofan alleged arrangement evidenced by Ex.	 D-7 dated April  1,1931.	This  document is an affidavit which  was  filed  byDoriappa  Pillai (Defendant 8) in a suit (O.  S. No.  25  of1930)  filed  by him for possession after partition  of	 his1/8th  share  on  the  basis of Ex.  D-22.   In	 that  suit,Ramasami  Pillai was the second defendant.  Ex.	 P-5 is	 thewritten statement filed on his behalf in which he repudiatedthat  he  was  excluded from inheritance by  reason  of	 hisinsanity.   This suit was withdrawn on April 2,	 1931,	withthe  leave of the Court, with liberty to bring a fresh	suit(Ex.  D-6).  In the affidavit which was filed, it was statedas follows :(1)  (1876)  I.L.R. 1 Bom. 177.	 (2) (1801) I.L.R.  14	Mad.289.(3) (1884) I.L.R. 10 Cal. 639.	(4) (1883) I.L.R. 5 All. 509(F.B.).947385.  Excepting  Defendant  9,  myself  and  almost  all	 theDefendants agree to give. to Defendant 2 an  equal     sharewith others and thus come to some  amicable	 arrangementbetween us.6. In view of the ninth Defendant's contentions in the	suitand in view of the fact that I have not prayed in this	suitfor  a	declaration of my title to the	suit  properties  asagainst him, I am advised that I should withdraw the presentsuit for partition with liberty to institute a fresh suit asI may be advised.7.  It	is  therefore  just and	 necessary  that  I  may  bepermitted  to  withdraw this suit with liberty	to  bring  afresh suit properly framed."The Subordinate Judge held on this and the evidence of	D.W.2  that	 this family arrangement was duly proved,  and	thatDefendant  10  who  was	 present in  Court  when  the  abovestatement was made, did not choose to deny it.The  High Court rightly pointed out that the  affidavit	 didnot  show the compromise as a completed fact, and  also	 didnot accept the word of D.W. 2. The claimants, who are statedto  have  given a share to Ramasami Pillai,  have  not	beenexamined.   The High Court also noticed that no	 applicationfor  transfer  of  the pattas was made.	 In  view  of  thesecircumstances which are all correct, the appellant cannot besaid   to   have   successfully	  established	the   familyarrangement, and we do not consider it necessary to  examinethe oral evidence in the case.This  brings us to the last point that Ramasami	 Pillai	 wasentitled to a share in the properties comprised in Sch. 4-A.M.  Picha Pillai had filed O.S. No. 35 of 1924	against	 hiscousins	 for possession of these properties.  The  suit	 wasdecreed	 on  September 19, 1927.  On October  30,  1927,  P.Picha  Pillai  (Defendant  7) and  Serindia  Pillai  sent  anotice,	 Ex.  P-3, informing M. Picha Pillai that  he  couldtake  possession of the properties covered by,	the  decree.This  notice  was refused and returned to the  senders.	  M.Picha Pillai died soon afterwards on December 10, 1927.	  Itis contended that the properties thus remained in possessionof the judgment-debtors, and the decree not739having been executed, the present suit filed on October	 18,1939, is barred in so far as those properties are concerned,and the Devasthanam cannot get possession of them.Both  the  Courts below have concurred in  holding  that  M.Picha  Pillai  must have got possession	 otherwise  than  byexecution  of  the  decree, because even   D.W.	 2  not veryfriendly  to the Devasthanam admitted that M.  Picha  Pillaiwas  at the time of his death in possession of all the	suitproperties.  The two Courts below also adverted to the	factthat for the years, Faslis 1338 and 1339 the 10th  defendantpaid the taxes, and this would not happen if the heirs of M.Picha,	Pillai	were not in enjoyment.	The  fact  that	 thepatta  stood in the names of the  original  judgment-debtorswould  not indicate anything, because mutations some.  timeslag  behind change of possession.  In view of the fact	thatthe two Courts below have agreed on the finding and there isevidence to support it, we see no reason to interfere.The  question of mesne profits was not pressed,and no  otherpoint  having  been argued, we hold that the appeal  has  nomerits.	 It will, accordingly, be dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.