PETITIONER:SMT.  INDERMANI JATIA	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, U.P., LUCKNOWDATE OF JUDGMENT:03/10/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR   82		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)  45 CITATOR INFO : R	    1971 SC2396	 (12)ACT:       Income-tax-Mercantile system of accounts-Accounts in India,       showing	credit	entry of receipt of  interest  from  Indian       State-If such amount liable to tax-New point-Indian  Income-       tax Act, 1922 (XI Of 1922), s. 4 (1)(a).HEADNOTE:The assessee, who was ordinarily resident in British  India,carried	 on business at Khurja and Aligarh in India  and  atChistian  in  the  Indian State of Bahawalpur.	 He  kept  acentral	 set  of accounts of the business at  Khurja,  whichwere  maintained on the mercantile system.  Under  the	saidsystem	credit	entries are made in respect of	amounts	 dueimmediately they become legally due and even before they areactually received.  In his account books the income receivedby the assessee from all sources was shown, and the interestaccount	 showed	 credit	 entries  of  amounts  received	  asinterest  on capital invested in the shop at Chistian.	 Theassessee  conceded  that  as creditor he had  the  right  toenforce	 the payment of, interest in British India and	thatliability of the Chistian shop had been extinguished to the46extent	of the interest paid by it to the head office.	 TheIncome-Tax   Authorities  included  these  amounts  in	 theassessee's  taxable income in India and levied tax on  them.The  assessee contended that the entries in respect  of	 thereceipt	 of interest were merely book entries and  that	 theauthorities had wrongly treated these amounts as having beenactually received.Held, that the relevant entries in the books of account	 didjustify	 the  inference	 that  the  assessee  had   actuallyreceived the amounts by way of interest.  Where an  assesseeKeeps  accounts according to the mercantile method  of	book-keeping the effect of making a credit entry in the interestaccount	 would be to treat that amount as income or  profitsreceived  by the assessee or treated by him as received	 forthe purposes of the tax.Commissioner  of  Income-tax v.	 A.T.K.P.L.S.P.	 SubramaniamChettiar, (1927) I.L.R. 50 Mad. 765, approved.Gresham	 Life Assurance Society Ltd. v. Bishop, (1902)	A.C.287;  Keshav  Mills  Ltd.  v.  Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Bombay,	 [1953] S.C.R. 950; Sunder Das v. The  Collector  ofGujrat, (1922) I.L.R. 3 Lah. 349, referred to.The assessee sought to raise a new point that it was a	ruleof  universal  application that no person could	 trade	withhimself	 and that accordingly the interest alleged  to	havebeen received from his own shop at Chistian could not amountto  receipt  of any income by him, and referred	 to:  DublinCorporation v. M'Adam,	(1887)	2 Tax Cas.  387;  Ostime  v.Pontypridd and Rhondda joint Water Board, (1944) 28 Tax Cas.261 ; Caylisle and  Silloth Golf Club v. Smith, (1913) 6 TaxCas. 198; New York Life Insurance Company v. Styles,  (1889)14  App.  Cas. 381 ; Sir Kikabhai Premchand v.	Commissionerof  Income-tax (Central) Bombay, [1954] S.C.R. 219  and	 RamLal  Bechairam v. Commissioner of Income-tax, A.I.R.  (1946)All. 3. The respondent contended that the principle was	 notinflexible  or universal and that the new point having	beenraised	for  the  first	 time in  appeal  ought	 not  to  bepermitted  to be raised.  Sharkey v. Wernher, (1956)  A.  C.58, referred to.Held  that, the new point could not be allowed to be  raisedas that would mean the re-opening of the whole enquiry	intothe  question as to the remittances from Chistian to  Khurjaas  well as the rates at which the tax were to be levied  onthe  assessee.	 If the assessee wanted to  rely  upon	thisprinciple the point ought to have been urged at the  earlierstage of the proceedings.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 278 and 279of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and order dated November 14,  1950,of the Allahabad High Court in Incometax Miscellaneous	CaseNo. 12 of 1950.47A.   V.	  Viswanatha  Sastri  and  A.  N.  Kirpal  for	 theappellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of  India,  RajagopalaSastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1958.  October 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-These  are appeals by special  leave	 andthey arise from the assessment proceedings taken against theappellant's husband Seth Ganga Sagar Jatia in respect of hisincome	for the assessment years 1943-44 and  1944-45.	 Thesaid  Seth Ganga Sagar died on September 22,  1944,  leavingbehind him his widow the appellant Shrimati Indermani Jatia.After the death of her husband, the appellant continued	 theassessment    proceedings   as	 his   representative	 andadministrator  of his estate.  The appellant as well as	 herhusband	 were residents and ordinarily residents in  BritishIndia for the relevant years.  The sources of the assessee'sincome	for the purposes of income.tax assessment  were	 hisbusiness,  his	house property and the dividends  earned  byhim.   This business was carried on by the  appellant  afterhis death at Khurja and Aligarh which are part of India	 andat Chistian in the Indian State of Bahawalpur now a part  ofPakistan.   The	 central set of accounts of  the  assessee,sbusiness  were	kept  at Khurja.  In this  set	of  accountsincome	received  by  the assessee  from  all  sources	wereincorporated.	For the accounting year relevant to  1943-44assessment,  the interest account in the said  books  showedcredit	entries	 of  Rs. 17,132/- as  interest	received  oncapital	 invested in the shop at Cliistian).  Similarly	 forthe  accounting	 period relevant to 1944-45  assessment	 Rs.47,029/-  had been credited in the said books.	 The  IncomeTax Officer took the view that these two amounts representedthe  assessee's taxable income in India and  accordingly  helevied tax on them.The  appellant filed appeals before the Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  against  the said assessment  orders  for	 theassessment years 1943-44 and 1944-45;48and  on her behalf the Income Tax Officer's  decision  aboutthe  chargeability to tax of the aforesaid two	amounts	 waschallenged.  The appellate authority, however, rejected	 theappellant's contention and confirmed the order under appeal.The  appellant	then  filed appeals before  the	 Income	 TaxAppellate Tribunal.  The tribunal agreed with the view takenby  the income-tax authorities, confirmed  their  conclusionand dismissed the appeals preferred by the appellant.In  the	 assessment for 1943-44, the appellant	had  claimedthat Rs. 7,512/-, which had been spent in litigation, was anadmissible expenditure -but this claim was disallowed by theIncome	Tax  Officer and his decision was confirmed  by	 theappellate authority and by the tribunal.  At the instance ofthe appellant, the tribunal stated the case and referred thefollowing two questions to the High Court at Allahabad unders. 66(1):(1)  Whether,  in the circumstances of the case, the sum  ofRs. 17,132/- for 1943-44 and Rs. 47,029/for 1944-45 could belegally	 deemed to have been received in British  India	 andwere liable to tax under s.   4(1) of the Act ;(2)  Whether,  in  the	circumstances  of  the,	 case,	 theexpenditure  of	 Rs. 7,5121- incurred in connection  with  acriminal  litigation was admissible expenditure	 within	 themeaning of s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act ?The reference was heard by Malik C. J. and V. Bhargava J. onNovember  14,  1950, and both the  questions  were  answeredagainst	  the  appellant.   The	 application  made  by	 theappellant under s. 66A of the Act for leave to appeal to theSupreme	 Court was dismissed by the High Court on April	 23,1954.	Thereupon  the appellant applied  for  and  obtainedspecial	 leave	on  December 10, 1954.	That  is  how  theseappeals have come to this Court.Mr. Viswanatha Sastri, for the appellant, did not  challengebefore	us  the correctness of the view taken  by  the	HighCourt  on the second question in respect of the	 expenditureof  Rs. 7,512/-.  He conceded that the finding	recorded  bythe income-tax authorities49.against	 the appellant on this point is a finding  of  fact.and,  having  regard  to the material  on  the	record,	 thecorrectness  of	 the  said  finding  cannot  be	 effectivelychallenged.   He, however, urged that the answer,  given  bythe  High  Court on the first question referred	 to  it	 waserroneous  in  law.  The High Court has held  that  the	 twoamounts	 of interest credited in the books of the  appellantwere liable to tax under s. 4(1) of the Act as they must  bedeemed	to  have been received by the appellant	 in  BritishIndia.	Mr. Sastri argues that the expression " deemed to bereceived  " means, deemed by the relevant provisions of	 theAct  to be received.  It is not disputed that though  incomemay  not have been received by the assessee in	reality,  itcan  be deemed to be received under the relevant  provisionsof  the	 Act;  and this constructive  receipt  can  be	con-veniently  described  as statutory receipt  under  the	Act.Taxes deducted at source or annual accretion to an  employeeparticipating in a recognized firm, for instance, are deemedto  be	received  under s. 18(4) and s.	 58(e)	of  the	 Actrespectively.	The  argument is that there is	no  relevantprovision of the Act under which the two amounts in questioncan  be	 properly  deemed  to  have  been  received  by	 theappellant.  No provision has been mentioned in the  judgmentof  the High Court nor has any such provision been cited  bythe  income-tax	 authorities either.  In our  opinion,	thisargument  is technically correct.  It must be conceded	thatthe present Proceedings disclose some confusion in the	mindof  the	 appellant in the presentation of her  case  at	 allstages	hereto, in the findings recorded by  the  income-taxauthorities,  in  the  form of the question  raised  by	 thetribunal,  and in the answer given to it by the High  Court.In law and in substance, what the department has done is  totax the said two amounts not because they are deemed to havebeen  received by the appellant during the  relevant  years,but  because  they  have been actually received	 by  her  ortreated	 by  her as so received.  In other words,  the	caseagainst	 the appellant under s. 4(1)(a) is that the  amountsof  interest  constitute  her income which  is	received  ortreated as received by her.750Dealing with the question on this basis, Mr. Sastri contendsthat  the  inference  about the receipt	 of  income  by	 theappellant  drawn from her books of account is not valid	 andshould	be rejected.  He does not dispute the fact that	 thebooks  of  account are kept by the appellant  on  mercantilebasis.	 It  was conceded by the appellant's lawyer  in	 theproceedings  before the tribunal that the appellant  as	 thecreditor  had a right to enforce the payment of interest  inBritish	 India, and that the liability of the Chistian	shophad been extinguished to the extent of the interest paid  byit  to	the  head  office.   The  concessions  made  by	 theappellant  before  the tribunal clearly show  that  the	 sumadvanced by the appellant's head office in British India- toher shop at Chistian was liable to pay interest and that thecredit	entry  in respect of the two amounts had  been	madeaccording to the mercantile method of keeping accounts.	  Itis  well-known	that  the mercantile  system  of  accountingdiffers substantially from the cash system of  book-keeping.Under  the cash system, it is only actual cash receipts	 andactual	cash  payments	that are  recorded  as	credits	 anddebits; whereas, under the mercantile system, credit entriesare  made in respect of amounts due immediately they  becomelegally	  due  and  before  they  are	actually   received;similarly,  the expenditure items for which legal  liabilityhas  been incurred are immediately debited even	 before	 theamounts in question are actually disbursed.  Where  accountsare  kept  on  mercantile basis, the profits  or  gains	 arecredited  though  they	are not actually  realised  and	 theentries	 thus made really show nothing more than an  accrualor  arising of the said profits at the material	 time.	 Thesame is the position with regard to debits made.This position is not disputed by Mr. Sastri.  He,,  however,contends  that	the  entries in respect of  the	 receipt  Ofinterest  are nevertheless merely book entries and it  wouldnot be reasonable to infer actual receipt of the said amountmerely from these entries.  In support of this argument, Mr.Sastri invited our attention to the decision of the House ofLords  in  Gresham  Life Assurance Society  Ltd.  v.  Bishop(Surveyor of51Taxes)(1).  This was a case of life assurance society  whichcarried on business at home and abroad with its head  officein  London.  At the head office accounts and  balance-sheetswere  made.  up, the profits ascertained and  the  dividendspaid.	The interest upon the society's	 foreign  securitiespaid  abroad was received by the agents and part of  it	 wasapplied	 abroad	 for the purposes of the society.   All	 theinterest  on  foreign securities was,  however,	 taken	intoaccount	 in the balance-sheets upon which the  profits	wereascertained.   It  was held that taking	 the  interest	intoaccount	 was  not  equivalent to a  receipt  in	 the  UnitedKingdom	 and  that income-tax was not chargeable  upon	thatpart  of the interest which was not remitted to	 the  UnitedKingdom.   The	Fourth Case falling under Schedule  I  whichfell to be considered in this case referred to sums "  whichhave  been or will be received in Great Britain	 during	 theyear for which the duty is payable ". Under this  provision,the locality of the receipt is naturally very important.  AsLord Lindley has observed that " what has been done, and allthat  has been done, is that the Gresham Company, in  makingup  its	 account with a view to ascertain  what	 profits  itcould divide in a particular year, entered on its asset sidethe sum of pound 43,483/- as money received during the year.This  was  obviously  right;  for  the	object	was  not  toascertain the profit made in any particular country but	 theprofit made by the company on all its transactions all	overthe world ". In fact no account was forthcoming to show thatthe  sum  had ever been treated as remitted  to	 the  UnitedKingdom	 so  as	 to  justify  the  inference  that  in	 anycommercial  sense the same had been received in	 the  UnitedKingdom	 as distinguished from other countries.	 It is	thusclear that the decision turned upon the special features  ofaccounting  which  is  usually	adopted	 in  preparing	 andpresenting balance sheets of companies and it shows that  anentry  in  a balance-sheet is not receipt of  money  at	 theplace where the balance-sheet is prepared.  In our  opinion,there is no analogy between the balance-sheet of a(1)  (1902) A. C. 287.52company	 and the accounts 'kept by the appellant in  respectof  her individual business activities.	 The principle	laiddown  by  the  House of Lords in the case  of  Gresham	LifeAssurance   Society   Ltd.  (1),  appears   to	 have	beensubstantially reproduced in explanation (1) to s. 4(1).	 Theargument  that the principle thus statutorily recognized  inrespect	 of  balance-sheets should be  extended	 to  privatebooks of account kept according to mercantile system cannot,in our opinion, be accepted.Mr. Sastri has also invited our attention to the decision ofKeshav	Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner Income-tax,	Bombay	(2).In  this  case a non-resident company  manufactured  textilegoods in Petlad outside British India and sold the goods ex-mills.	 The firm of R. & Co., guaranteed the sale price  ofgoods sold ex-mills by the assessee company to purchasers atAhmedabad within British India.	 The assessee maintained itsaccounts  according to the mercantile system and so  debitedR. & Co. with the price of goods sold and credited the salesaccount of the bills.  R. & Co. collected the amounts of thebills  from  the purchasers on behalf of  the  assessee	 andcredited  the sums realised in the assessee's  account	withbanks  at Ahmedabad and also disbursed them to creditors  ofthe   assessee	in  British  India.   During  the   relevantaccounting year, the assessee thus received Rs. 12,68,418/-.The  asses. see also received Rs. 4,40,878/- from  sales  topurchasers  in British India.  The question which arose	 fordecision  was whether these two sums were sale	proceeds  ofgoods sold by the assessee to merchants in British India andwhether	 they  were received in British India and  could  beincluded in the assessable income of the assessee in BritishIndia.	It was held by this Court that the said amounts werenot  received  by the assessee nor could be deemed  to	havebeen received by it when the entries were made in the  booksof  account  at Petlad but that they had merely	 accrued  orarisen to the assessee there; that they were first  receivedby  R.	&  Co. and by the banks	 through  whom	the  railwayreceipts were negotiated on behalf(1) (1902) A.  C. 287.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 950.53of  the company in British India and as such were liable  totax  under s. 4(1)(a) of the Act as having been received  inBritish	 India	on  its	 behalf.  We do	 not  see  how	thisdecision can assist the appellant's case before us.  We	 aredealing	 with  the appellant who is a  resident	 in  BritishIndia  and the argument that the credit entries made in	 hisbooks of account should not be treated as income received ortreated	 by  her  as, received cannot be  supported  by	 thedecision  in  Keshav Mills Ltd. (1) or even by	any  of	 theobservations made by Bhagwati J. who delivered the  majorityjudgment.Reliance  was also placed by Mr. Sastri on the	decision  ofthe Full Bench of the Punjab High Court in Sunder Das v. TheCollector  of  Gujrat (2).  This case merely  decided  that,where the assessee had earned and received income in BritishBaluchistan (which Province was exempt from the operation ofthe Act except as to salaries) and had subsequently  broughtit  into  Punjab, it was not liable to	income-tax  for	 thereason	that  the said income had not been received  in	 thePunjab within the meaning of s. 3, sub-s. (1) of the Income-tax  Act.   In	other words, this decision  shows  that	 theassessee  cannot  receive  the	same  income  twice  in	 twodifferent  places but this principle has no  application  tothe present case.The decision of the Full Bench of the Madras ']High Court inCommissioner  of  Income-tax,  Madras v.  A.  T.  K.P.L.S.P.Subramaniam  Chettiyar (3), on the other hand, supports	 thecontention of the department.  In this case the Madras	HighCourt  has  held  that credit entries  made  on	 account  ofinterest  due  by debtor in foreign places to  the  assesseemust  be  treated as payments though that interest  was	 notactually  paid	%in  British  India.   The  assessee  had  abusiness  of his own in Rangoon carried on by an  agent	 andlie  was also interested with another or others in a  money-lending business in Penang in which he was a chief  partner.From the Rangoon business a sum of Rs. 78,768/- and odd	 wastransferred in cash to the Penang business(1) [1933] S.C.R. 950.	  (2) (1922) I.L.R. 3 Lah. 349.	       (3) (1927) I.L.R. 50 Mad. 765.54under  the  orders  of the assessee.  In the  books  of	 theRangoon	 business  a  sum of Rs.  12,174/.  was	 entered  asinterest on that money from Penang and the assessee had beenassessed in respect of this interest under s. 4, sub-s.	 (1)of  the	 Act  as income accruing,  arising  or	received  inBritish	 India.	 It was admitted that the assessee kept	 hisbooks  according to the mercantile method  of  book-keeping.What  the  assessee sought to do was to treat  the  relevantentries	 of  interest on cash basis though  he	adopted	 themercantile basis in regard to other entries in the  interestaccount.   This	 attempt did not succeed  because  the	HighCourt  held  that the assessee's own accounts  were  "	deadagainst his contention " and they precluded him from arguingthat  the  interest in question is  income  arising  outsideBritish	 India and not received in British India because  inlaw  the transfer called in the assessee's books an  advanceto the Penang firm cannot be a loan.  The court came to	 theconclusion that once the assessee had adopted the mercantilebasis  of accountancy it was upon that basis and that  basisalone that lie had to be assessed.  Thus this decision wouldshow  that  the	 effect	 of making a  credit  entry  in	 theinterest account would be to treat that amount as income  orprofits	 received  by  the assessee or	treated	 by  him  asreceived  for the purposes of the tax provided the  assesseekeeps  the  accounts according to the mercantile  method  ofbook keeping.  We are, therefore, not prepared to accept Mr.Sastri's argument that, despite the concessions made by	 hisclient before the tribunal, it would still be open to her tocontend	 that the relevant entries in her books	 of  accountdid  not  justify  the	inference  that	 the  appellant	 hasreceived  the amounts in question by way of interest  duringthe relevant period.Realising  the infirmity in his argument on this point,	 Mr.Sastri contended that the main objection which he wanted  tourge  before  us  against the  validity	 of  the  conclusionreached by the income-tax authorities was fundamental and itwent to the root of the matter.	 Indeed, it was this  aspectof  the	 matter which Mr. Sastri seriously sought  to  pressbefore us.  He contends55that the view taken by the Madras High Court in the case  ofSubramaniam  Chettiyar	(1),  like  the	 conclusion  of	 theincome-tax authorities against the appellant in the  presentcase, is based on the erroneous assumption that a person cantrade with himself.  He urges that it is a rule of universalapplication  that no person can trade with himself and	makeprofit	out  of dealings with himself; and so  his  case  isthat,  whatever may be the effect of the other entries	madein  the	 appellant's  books in	the  interest  account,	 therelevant entries in respect of the interest alleged to	havebeen  received from the appellant's own shop at Chistian  inlaw cannot mean the receipt of any income by the  appellant.How  can the appellant be tier own creditor and how can	 shereceive	 interest in respect of the advance made by  her  toher own shop at Chistian, asks Mr. Sastri.  He concedes thatthis point bad not been raised by the appellant at any stagein  the	 proceedings so far but, according to him, it  is  aPure  question of law and he should be allowed to  argue  itbefore us.It was as early as 1887 that Palles C. B. observed in DublinCorporation v. M'Adam (Surveyor of Taxes) (2) that " no man,in  my opinion, make, in what is its true sense or  meaning,taxable	 profit by dealing with himself ". In this  case,  acity  corporation had been empowered by its Water works	 Actto  supply  waters beyond the city boundaries.	 Any  incomethus  arising had to be put into a consolidated	 account  ofthe  corporation  for all the purposes of the Act.   It	 washeld that the excess of receipts over expenditure in respectof the extra municipal supply constitutes profits chargeableto  income-tax.	  Distinction  was made	 between  the  extramunicipal  supply of water and supply within the  limits  ofthe  municipality;  and	 it was held that it  was  only	 theexcess of receipts over expenditure in respect of the formerthat  constitutes  profits chargeable  to  income-tax.	 Theargument  that	the  income received  from  the	 rate-payersresiding within the limits of Dublin Municipality should  betaken into account was repelled on the ground that(1) (1927) I.L.R. 50 Mad. 765.(2) (1887) 2 T.C. 387.56the  corporation  cannot be treated as in any sense  a	bodydistinct  from	the  inhabitants of  Dublin.   It  was	alsoobserved  that	what  was intended to  be  raised  from	 thecitizens  was what is enough to pay for the expenses of	 thewater  supply  and no more and that there was  no  intentionthat the corporation should in any sense make a profit	fromthose  rate-payers.  The said principle has been  enunciatedvery  succinctly  by  Viscount	Simon  in  Ostime  (H.	  M.Inspector  of Taxes) v. Pontypridd and Rhondda	Joint  WaterBoard  (1) when he said that "if the undertaker is a  ratingauthority  and the subsidy is the proceeds of rates  imposedby  it or comes from a fund belonging to the authority,	 theidentity  of  the  source with the  recipient  prevents	 anyquestion  of profits arising ". In The Carlisle and  SillothGolf  Club v. Smith (Surveyor of Taxes) (2), Buckley  L.  J.has  adverted to the same rule and has observed that  a	 mancannot make profits or loss out of himself and that was	 theground of the decision in New York Life Insurance Company v.Styles (Surveyor of Taxes) (3).In  support  of	 the same proposition Mr.  Sastri  has	alsorelied	upon  the  decision of this Court  in  Sir  KikabhaiPremchand  V. Commissioner of Income-tax  (Central),  Bombay(4).   In  this case, the assessee carried  on	business  inbullion	 and shares and kept his accounts in the  mercantilesystem;	 the  method  adopted by him  for  ascertaining	 hisprofit,,;  was to value stock at the beginning and close  ofeach year at cost price.  In the accounting year he withdrewsome  silver bars and shares from the business	and  settledthem  in  trusts,  and in the accounts of  the	business  hevalued	them  at  the  close of	 the  year  at	cost  price.According  to  the  majority  decision,	 the  assessee	 wasentitled to value the silver bars and shares in question  atcost price and he was not bound to credit the business	withthe  market price at the close of the year for	ascertaininghis assessable profits for the year.  Bhagwati J.,  however,dissented  from	 this  view and	 held  that  the  assessee'sbusiness was entitled to be credited(1) (1944) 28 T.  C. 261, 278. (3) (1889) 14 App.  Cas. 384.(2)  (1913) 6 T.C. 198.	       (4) [1954] S.C.R. 219.57with the market value of the assets withdrawn as on the dateit  was	 withdrawn whatever be the method  employed  by	 theassessee for the valuation of the stock in trade on hand  atthe  close of the year.	 Mr. Sastri placed reliance  on	 theobservations made by Bose J., who delivered the judgment forthe  majority view that " disregarding technicalities it  isimpossible  to get away from the fact that the business	 wasowned  and  run by the assessee himself.   In  such  circum-stances	 it would be unreal and artificial to  separate	 thebusiness  from	its owner and -treat them as  if  they	wereseparate entities trading with each other and then by  meansof  a fictional sale introduce a fictional profit  which  intruth  and  in	fact  is non-existent  ".  Mr.	Sastri	alsocontended  that the decision of the Allahabad High Court  inRam   Lal  Bechairam  v.  Commissioner	of  Income-tax	 (1)supported the same view.On  the other hand, the Solicitor-General contends that	 theprinciple  on  which  Mr. sastri relies	 can  no  longer  beregarded as inflexible and universal; and according to	him,permissible  invasion  of this principle has  been  recentlyrecognized  by the House of Lords in Sharkey  (Inspector  ofTaxes)	v. Wernher (2).	 In this case Lady Zia carried on  astud  farm, an activity which was admittedly  husbandry	 andtaxable under Schedule ' D '; she also carried on a separateactivity, racing stables, which gave rise to no liability totax  being a " recreational " enterprise.  Horses were	bredat the stud farm for the racing stables.  On the transfer offive horses in the relevant year of assessment from the studto  the	 stables  it was held by the House  of	Lords  (LordOaksey dissenting) that " where a person carrying on a tradedisposes of part of his stock in trade not by way of sale inthe  course  of	 trade but for his own	use,  enjoyment,  orrecreation,  he	 must  bring into his  trading	account	 forincome-tax purposes the market value of that stock in  tradeat the time of such disposition, and that, accordingly,	 theamount	to  be	credited to the stud farm  accounts  on	 thetransfer of the horses was their market value and not the(1) A.I.R. 1946 All. 8.		(2) (1956) A.C. 58.858cost  of  breeding  them ". It would be	 noticed  that	thisdecision  proceeds on the fictional or	notional  assumptionthat  the transfer of the five horses from the stud farm  ofthe  assessee  to  her	racing	stables	 was  a	  commercialtransaction;  and that, according to the  Solicitor-General,is  a  clear case where an exception is	 recognized  to	 thegeneral	 rule that a person cannot trade with  himself.	  Inhis  speech, Viscount Simonds observed that " if  there	 arecommodities  which are the subject of a man's trade but	 mayalso be the subject of his use and enjoyment, I do not	knowhow his account as a trader can properly be made up so as toascertain  his annual profits and gains unless	his  tradingaccount is credited with a receipt in respect of those goodswhich  he has diverted to his own use and enjoyment ".	ThenViscount  Simonds referred to the change in law	 which	madethe farmer liable to tax under Scheduled ' instead of  underSchedule  'B'  and to s. 10 of the Finance Act of  1941	 andobserved  that " these provisions emphasize  the  artificialdichotomy  which  the  scheme  of  income-tax  law  in	manyinstances imposes.  Lord Radcliffe, dealt with the  questionat length.  He cited the proposition stated by Palles C.  B.and  observed  that  later decisions have  shown  that	thissimple proposition may cover what are to be -regarded as twoseparate  questions,  whether a man can trade or  deal	withhimself, whether a man can make taxable profit by so  doing.In his opinion, " it must now be said that people can  carryon  trade or business with themselves, as by way  of  mutualinsurance,  but that, if they do, a resulting  surplus	fromthe operations is not a profit from a trade for the purposesof income-tax, or, put another way, their operations do	 notfor the same purposes constitute a trade from which a profitcan result ". Lord Radcliffe referred to the case of  WatsonBrothers v. Hornby (1) which explicitly decided that it mustbe necessary for a proper assessment of trade profits  underCase I of Schedule d' to treat a man who supplies himself inhis own trade as trading with himself on ordinary commercial(1)  (1942) 168 L.T. 109.59terms  and stated that the said decision which was given  in1942  laid down a principle that must continuously affect  agreat  many  taxpayers and it was only in 1955 that  it	 wassaid  that  the case was wrongly decided.  The	learned	 lawLord  also  considered the decision in	Back  (Inspector  ofTaxes)	v. Daniels (1) and referred to the  observations  ofMr. Justice Rowlatt about the assessees' admission that " inaddition to their liability to income-tax under Schedule ' B' the assessees may be liable to income-tax on a sum in	 thenature	of a commission to themselves for selling their	 ownpotatoes,  in  the  same way as	 they  sell  other  people'spotatoes  in  London on the market ". The assessees  in	 thecase  before  Rowlatt  J. were a firm  of  wholesale  potatomerchants who carried on business in London where they	soldall  the  potatoes raised by them on land in  Fen  District.The effect of the decision was that Schedule ' B' assessmenton the profits of occupation prevented any assessment  underSchedule  ' D' in respect of the profit the firm  made	whenthey  sold  the potatoes as wholesale merchants	 in  London.The  assessees admitted their liability, to pay the  tax  onthe commission in question ; but the admission did not seem,a strange one to Mr. Justice Rowlatt whose only comment	 was"but that, on the whole, is the limit of their liability  ".In regard to this decision, Lord Radcliffe has remarked thatthe limit mentioned by Rowlatt J. required the assessees  toinclude	  in  the  receipts  of	 their	London	business   acommission  from themselves which of course they never	paidfor  selling  themselves  their	 own  potatoes.	  From	 thedecisions examined by him, Lord Radcliffe drew the inferencethat  they  afford instances of the disintegration  for	 taxpurpose of a profitable business carried on by a taxpayer intwo  departments.  The respondent's argument is that  havingregard to the decision of the House of Lords in the case  ofSharkey	 v. Wernher (2) it would be necessary for  a  largerBench of this Court to reconsider the view expressed by	 themajority decision in the case of Anglo-French(1)  (1924) 2 K.B 432.(2)  (1956) A.C. 58.60Textile Co., Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras (1).It is urged that the minority view expressed by Bhagwati  J.appears to be more consistent with the decision of the Houseof Lords.Besides, the Solicitor-General has argued that though he  isprepared  to meet on the merits the new point raised by	 Mr.Sastri	for the first time in appeal before us, he would  beentitled  to  contend  that, having regard  to	the  specialcircumstances  of  this	 case,	Mr.  Sastri  should  not  bepermitted  to  raise  the said point.  We  are	inclined  toaccept	this contention raised by the Solicitor-General	 andso we do not propose to decide the interesting point  raisedby   Mr.  Sastri.   We	have  already  indicated  that	 theappellant's contention throughout has been that the relevantentries	 do  not justify the inference that the	 amounts  inquestion  have	been  received by her during  the  years  inquestion as income or profit; and this contention  naturallyraised the short and simple question as to the effect of thesaid  entries  made  in	 the  books  of	 account  which	 areadmittedly kept on the mercantile basis of bookkeeping.	  Itis  true  that the confusion introduced by  the	 appellant'scontention was shared b y the income-tax authorities and  itpersisted  throughout  the present  proceedings	 until	theyreached this Court.  That is why even the material  questionframed	by the tribunal and answered by the High Court	doesnot  properly  disclose	 the real  controversy	between	 theparties.  The reference to the deeming provisions of the Actwhich is presumably implied in the question as framed by thetribunal  and answered by the High Court is clearly  out  ofplace;	but the fact still remains that the appellant  neverraised the contention that the two entries in the  interest.account	 cannot in law show profits received by her  becausethe  appellant	could  not  trade  with	 herself.   If	 theappellant  wanted  to  rely upon this  principle  the  pointshould	have  been  urged  at  the  earlier  stage  of	 theproceedings.Besides, there are some other factors which would  introducecomplications in case the point raised by Mr. Sastri were tobe upheld.  The business con-(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 523,61ducted	by the appellant in the shop at	 Chistian  attractedthe  provisions of s. 14(2)(c) of the Act which was then  inforce; and so no tax was payable by the appellant in respectof  the income, profits or gains accruing or arising to	 herfrom the said shop unless such income, profits or gains werereceived or deemed to be received in or brought into BritishIndia in the previous year by or on behalf of the appellant.In  other words, though the appellant is a resident  in	 thetaxable	 territories and her income wherever received  wouldbe normally taxable, she would be entitled to the benefit ofthe exception prescribed by the pro-visions of s. 14 (2)(c).Nevertheless  the  appellant's	profits	 from  her  shop  atChistian  would be relevant for the purpose  of	 determiningthe rates at which income-tax was payable by the  appellant.They  would also be relevant in deciding which part  of	 theprofits	 were  received or could be deemed  to	be  receivedwithin	the meaning of s. 14(2)(c).  If it is held that	 theentries in respect of the two items of interest in  questiondo  not	 represent  in	law  any  profits  received  by	 theappellant, then appropriate changes would have to be made inthe  appellant's account books kept at Khurja as well as  atChistian.   The appellant has been keeping accounts  on	 themercantile basis for all the years; and it is very  unlikelythat  the two entries before us are the only ones which	 maybe affected if it is held that the appellant could not	havetraded	with herself.  It is clear that the profits made  bythe  appellant in her shop at Chistian have been  determinedall these years on the basis of credit and debit entries  bythe appellant according to the mercantile system; and so thequestion  as to the amounts remitted by the  appellant	fromChistian  to herself at Khurja would be affected  by  makingnecessary  adjustments	of all relevant	 entries,  and	thatwould mean reopening the whole enquiry into the	 appellant'sliability to pay the tax.In  this  connection we may refer to the fact that  for	 theassessment   year  1943-44  the	 Income	 Tax   Officer	 haddetermined the assessee's income at Chistian at Rs.  74,982.He had also held that out of the said profits the  appellanthad remitted Rs. 51,879 to62British	 India;	 and so, in the assessment,  he	 added	thisamount	as income in British India on remittance basis	and,after giving the statutory allowance of Rs. 4,500, took	 thebalance	 of  Rs.  18,603 as income on accrual  basis  to  beconsidered  for	 rate purposes only.  On this  question	 theultimate  decision  was	 that no amount could  be  taxed  onremittance   basis.    In   the	  supplementary	  assessmentproceedings the appellant proved that a sum of Rs.  7,19,660was sent to Chistian shop and Rs. 4,17,636 was received fromthe  Chistian shop.  That is why, in the result, the  entireincome in Bahawalpur State was taken on an accrual basis forincome-tax.   Having  regard to the method  adopted  by	 theappellant  in keeping her books of account, it	seems  clearthat, if the appellant's present contention is accepted, thedecision  as to remittances from Chistian to Khurja as	wellas the decision as to the rates at which the tax were to  belevied	on the appellant may have to be reopened.   That  iswhy we think, in the special circumstances of this case,  weshould	not,  allow Mr. Sastri to raise the point  that	 theappellant  cannot  trade with herself and  so  the  relevantentries cannot justify the inference that the appellant	 hasreceived  income  even though the entries are  made  in	 theaccounts kept on mercantile basis.In  the result the appeals fail and must be  dismissed	withcosts.			   Appeals dismissed.63