PETITIONER:G.   A. MONTERIO	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF AJMER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:21/09/1956BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR   13		  1956 SCR  682ACT: "Officer"-Tests  to  determine who  is	 an  'officer'-Metalexaminer,  called  chaser,  in	Railway	 Carriage  workshop-Whether	 officer  Indian Penal Code (Act XLV  of  1860),  s.21(9)-Prevention of Corruption Act (II of 1947), s. 2.HEADNOTE:The  appellant was a Class III servant employed as  a  metalexaminer,  also	 called	 chaser,  in  the  Railway  CarriageWorkshop at Ajmer.  He accepted a sum of Rs. 150 as  illegalgratification  for securing a job for some person.   He	 wascharged	 under	s. 5(1)(d) of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct, 1947 (Act II of 1947).  The appellant contended that hewas not an "officer" within the meaning of the term used  ins.  21(9)  of the Indian Penal Code and so could  not  be  apublic servant for purposes of Act II of 1947.	It was foundthat  the appellant was working under the Works Manager	 whowas  certainly an officer of the Government and	 the  dutieswhich  he performed were immediately auxiliary to  those  ofthe Works Manager who was also armed with some authority  orrepresentative character qua the Government.Held, that the appellant was an officer	 within the  meaningof s.	  21(9)	 of the Indian Penal Code and, therefore,  apublic servant within the meaning of s. 2 of Act 11 of 1947.The true test in order to determine whether a person is anofficer of the Government, is:-" .(1)  whether he is in the service or pay of  the  Governmentand(2)  whether  he  is  entrusted	 with  the  performance	  ofany,public duty.The  public  duty  may	- be  either,a	function  of  -	 theGovernment  delegated  to him or may be a  duty	 immediatelyauxiliary  to  that  of someone who is	an  officer  of	 theGovernment.Beg.  v. Ramajirav Jivbajirav ([1875] XII Bom.	 H.C.R.	 1),explained.Nazamuddin V. Queen-Empress, ([1900] I.L.R. 28 Cal. 344) andAhad Shah v. Emperor (A.I.R. 1918 Leh. 152), relied onJUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 146  of1954.-Appeal	from the judgment and order dated the 27th  November1954 of the Court of Judicial Com-683missioner at Ajmer in Criminal Appeal No. 15 of 1954 arisingout of the judgment and order dated 25th August 1954 of	 theCourt  of Special Judge at Ajmer in Criminal Case No.  5  of1953.B.   P. Maheshwari, for the appellant.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General for India, Porus A.	  Mehta,H. R. Khanna and B. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1956.	September  21.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byBHAGWATI J.-This Appeal with a certificate of fitness  underarticle	 134(1)(c) of the Constitution against the  decisionof  the Judicial Commissioner at Ajmer raises  an  importantquestion  as  to  the  connotation  of	the  word  "officer"contained in section 21(9), Indian Penal Code.The  appellant was a Class III servant employed as  a  metalexaminer,  also	 called	 Chaser,  in  the  Railway  CarriageWorkshops  at  Ajmer.  I He was charged under  section	161,Indian Penal Code with having accepted from one Nanak  Singhcurrency   notes  of  the  value  of  Rs.  150	as   illegalgratification as a motive for securing a job for one  Kallu.He was also charged under section 5(1)(d) of Act II of	1947with abusing his position as a public servant and  obtainingfor himself by corrupt or illegal means pecuniary  advantagein  the shape of Rs. 150 from the said Nanak Singh.  He	 wasfurther	 charged  with	having committed  an  offence  undersection	 420, Indian Penal Code for having induced the	saidNanak Singh to deliver to him currency notes of the value ofRs.  150 by dishonest representation that be could secure  ajob for the said Kallu.	 The learned Special Judge, State ofAjmer,	who  tried him in the first instance  for  the	saidoffences   convicted  him  of  the  offence  under   section161,'Indian  Penal  Code as also the offence  under  section5(1)  (d)  of  Act II of 1947 and sentenced  him  to  sufferrigorous   imprisonment	  for  six  months  and	  one	yearrespectively  in regard to the same, both the  sentences  torun concurrently.  In so far,684however,  as  it was not proved that the appellant  did	 notbelieve	 when he accepted the money that he could secure  orwould  try  to secure a job for Kallu, it was held  that  nocase  under section 420, Indian Penal Code was made out	 andhe was acquitted ofthat charge.The  appeal  taken to the Judicial  Commissioner,  State  ofAjmer,	by  the appellant failed and on the  10th  December,1954,  the  learned  Judicial Commissioner  granted  to	 theappellant  a certificate of fitness for appeal on  two	maingrounds,  viz., (1) whether the appellant was  an  "officer"within the meaning of clause (9) of section 21, Indian PenalCode,  and (2) whether the provisions of section 137 of	 theRailways   Act	excluded  all  railway	servants  from	 thedefinition  of	public	servants  except  for  purposes	  ofChapter' IX, Indian Penal Code.Concurrent findings of fact were reached by both the  Courtsbelow  on the question as to whether the appellant  acceptedRs.  150  from	Nanak  Singh  as  and  by  way	of   illegalgratification  and these findings could not be and were	 notchallenged  before  us	by  the	 learned  counsel  for	 theappellant.   The only questions which were canvassed  beforeus  were the two legal points which formed the basis of	 thecertificate  of	 fitness for appeal granted by	the  learnedJudicial Commissioner, State of Ajmer, to the appellant.The  second question has now become academical in the  factsof the present case by virtue of a decision of this Court inRam  Krishan v. Delhi State(1), which lays down that  beforethe  amendment of section 137 of the Railways Act by Act  17of  1955  railway servants were treated as  public  servantsonly for the purposes of Chapter IX, Indian Penal Code,	 butin any event they were public servants under the  Preventionof  Corruption	Act  (Act II of 1947).	In  so	far  as	 theappellant  has, in our -opinion, been rightly  convicted  ofthe  offense  under section 5(1)(d) of Act If  of  1947	 andawarded the sentence of rigorous imprigonment for one  year,the question whether he was rightly convicted of the offenceunder section 161,(1)  A.I.R. 1956 S C. 476.685.Indian	Penal  Code  for which he  was	awarded	 the  lessersentence  of  six months' rigorous imprisonment	 has  becomemerely academical and the only question which remains to  beconsidered by us here is whether he-was an "officer"  withinthe meaning of section 21 (9), Indian Penal Code.The provisions of law in regard to the first question may beconveniently set out at this stage:-Section	 2  of the Prevention of Corruption Act II  of	1947provides:-"for  the  purposes  of this Act "public  servant"  means  apublic servant as defined in section 21 of the Indian  PenalCode".Section 21, Indian Penal Code provides so far as is relevantfor  the purposes of the present appeal:"The  words 'public servant', denote a person falling  underany of the descriptions hereinafter following, namely,Ninth.....................    and every officer in theservice	 or pay of the Government or remunerated by fees  orcommission for the performance of any public duty".There is no doubt that the appellant was. in the service  orpay  of	 the Government -and was performing the	 duty  of  ametal  examiner	 known	as Chaser in  the  Railway  CarriageWorkshops at Ajmer and was thus performing a public duty.It  was,  however, contended that the appellant was  not  anofficer	 within the meaning of that term as used in  section21(9), Indian Penal Code.  An Officer, it was contended,  onthe   authority	  of  Reg.  v.	Ramajirav   jivbajirav	 andanother(1),  meant one to whom was delegated by the  supremeauthority some portion of its regulating and coercive powersand  who  was  appointed  to  represent	 the  State  in	 itsrelations  to individual subjects.  According to the  dictumof  West, J., the word "officer" meant some person  employedto  exercise to some extent and in certain  circumstances  adelegated  function  of Government.  He was  either  himselfarmed with some authority or repre-(1)  XII Bom.  H.C.R. 1.386sentative character or his duties were immediately auxiliaryto  those of some one who was so armed.	 It was,  therefore,contended that the appellant being a metal examiner known asChaser	in the Railway Carriage Workshops had not  delegatedto  him	 by  the  supreme  authority  some  portion  of	 itsregulating  and	 coercive  powers nor was  he  appointed  torepresent the State in its relations to individual subjects.He  was neither armed with some authority or  representativecharacter nor were his duties immediately auxiliary to thoseof  some  one  who was so armed.  He  was  not	employed  toexercise  to  some extent and in certain  circumstances	 thedelegated function of Government and, therefore, was not  an"officer" within the meaning of that term as used in section21(9), Indian Penal Code.  If he was thus not an officer  ofthe Government, he could not be a public servant within	 themeaning	 of section 21, Indian Penal Code nor could he be  apublic servant for the purposes of Act 11 of 1947 and  couldnot be convicted of the offence under section 5(1)(d) of ActII of 1947.It  has	 to  be noted, however, that  the  case	 before	 thelearned Judges of the High Court of Bombay in 12 Bombay HighCourt Reports 1, concerned an Izaphatdar, that is a  lessee,of  a village who bad undertaken to keep an account  of	 itsforest	 revenue  and  pay  a  certain	proportion  to	 theGovernment,  keeping  the  remainder  for  himself  and	 thequestion 'that arose for the consideration of the Court	 waswhether	 such a person was an officer within the meaning  ofsection	 21(9), Indian Penal Code.  It was in  this  contextthat  the aforesaid observations were made by West, J.,	 andthe  Court  came  to  the  conclusion  that  Deshmukhs	 andDeshpandes  would be sufficiently within the meaning of	 theclause	they  being  appointed to perform for  the  State  aportion of its functions or to aid those who were its activerepresentatives but not so an Izaphatdar or the lessee	suchas the accused.	 He was not an officer but a mere contractorbound by his engagement but not -by the terms of his  officeor employment to pay a certain proportion to the Government.There was no delegation to him of any687authority  for	coercion  or  interference  nor	 was  he  anassistant appointed to help any one who was vested with suchauthority.   The duties which he performed were	 contractualduties	frauduler deception in the discharge of which  mightsubject	 him  to  punishment for  cheating  but	 not  dutiesattached  to any office conferred on him or his	 predecessorin title, failure to perform which with integrity could makehim  liable,  as  an  officer,	to  the	 special   penaltiesprescribed for delinquent public servants.This decision in 12 Bombay High Court Reports 1, came to  beconsidered  by	the  Calcutta High Court  in  Nazamuddin  v.Queen-Empress(1).   The petitioner in that case was  a	peonattached  to  the office of the Superintendent of  the	SaltDepartment  in the district of Mozafferpur and he  had	beenconvicted  under  section  161,	 Indian	 Penal	Code.	 Thecontention urged on behalf of the petitioner was that he didnot fall within the terms of the last portion of clause	 (9)of  section  21,  Indian Penal Code  which  declared  "everyofficer	 in the service or pay of Government" was  a  publicservant be cause he was not an officer.	 The case of Reg. v.Ramajirav  Jivbajirav(2)  was  cited  in  support  of	thatcontention and the learned Judges of the Calcutta High Courtobserved at page 346 as under:-"The  learned Judges in that case had to consider whether  alessee from Government was on the conditions of his lease  apublic	servant and, in doing so, they considered  generallythe  meaning of the term "officer".  It was there held	thatan officer means "some person employed to exercise, to	someextent and in certain circumstances, a delegated function ofGovernment.   He  is  either armed with	 some  authority  orrepresentative	character,  or his  duties  are	 immediatelyauxiliary  to  those of some person who is so  armed".	 Themeaning which we are asked to put on these words seems to usto  be too narrow as applied to the present case.  The	peonwho has been convicted as a public servant is in service andpay  of the Government, and he is attached to the office  ofthe Superintendent of the Salt Department.  The exact(1) I.L.R. 28 Cal. 344.	       (2) XII Bom.  H.C.R. 1.688nature	of his duties is not stated, because this  objectionwas not taken at the trial., but we must take it that,	fromthe nature of his appointment, it was his duty to carry	 outthe  orders of his official superior, who undoubtedly  is  apublic	 servant,  and	in  that  capacity  to	assist	 theSuperintendent	in the performance of the public  duties  ofhis  office.   In  that	 sense he would	 be  an	 officer  ofGovernment,  although  he might not possibly  exercise	"anydelegated  function  of the Government".  Still	 his  dutieswould	be   "immediately   auxiliary  to   those   of	 theSuperintendent who is so armed".  We think that an  "officerin the service or pay of Government" within the terms of  s.21 of the Penal Code is one who is appointed to some  officefor the performance of some pulice duty.  In this sense	 thepeon would come within s. 21, cl. 9".The  true test, therefore, in order to determine  whether  aperson is an officer of the Government, is:(1)  whether he is in the service or pay of the	 Government,and(2)  whether  he  is entrusted with the performance  of	 anypublic duty.If both these requirements are satisfied it matters not	 theleast  what is the nature of his office, whether the  dutieshe is performing are of an exalted character or very  humbleindeed.	 As has been stated in Bacon's Abridgment at   Vol.6,  page  2,  in the article headed "Of	 the  nature  of  anofficer	 and  the  several  kinds  of  officers":-"The	word"officium'  principally	 implies  a duty, and  in  the	nextplace,	the charge of such duty; and that it is a rule	thatwhere one man 'bath to do with another's affairs against hiswill, and without his leave, that this is an office, and  hewho is in it is an officer".  The next paragraph  thereaftermay  also  be  referred to in  this  context:-"There  is,  adifference between an office and an employment, every officebeing an employment; but there are employments which do	 notcome under the denomination of offices; such as an agreementto,  make  hay, herd a flock, &c; which differ	widely	fromthat  of steward of a manor" &c. (Vide 12 Bombay High  CourtReports at page 5).689This  was the sense in which the decision in 12 Bombay	HighCourt Reports 1, was understood by the learned Judges of theLahore	High  Court  in Ahad Shah v.  Emperor(1)  when	theyobserved at page 157:"But it is not enough that a person should be in the pay  orservice	 of  Government to Constitute him a  public  servantwithin	the meaning of s. 21 (ninthly), I.P.C. He must	alsobe  an "Officer".  That expression is not, of course, to  berestricted  to its colloquial meaning of a  Commissioned  ornon-Commissioned Officer; it means a functional or holder ofsome "officium" or office.  The office may be one of dignityor  importance; it may equally be humble.  But whatever	 itsnature, it is essential that. the person holding the office,should	have  in  some	degree	delegated  to  him   certainfunctions of Government".The question for consideration before the learned Judges  ofthe Lahore High Court was whether a Quarter Master's  'clerkwas  a public servant within the meaning of that  expressionin  section  21, Indian Penal Code.  On the  facts  elicitedbefore	them the learned Judges came to the conclusion	thatthe  Quarter Master's clerk as such was just a Babu  and  nomore an officer than a labourer or menial employed and	paidby Government to do public work (See Queenv.   Nachimuttu(2).if  therefore  on the facts of a particular case  the  Courtcomes  to  the conclusion that a person is not only  in	 theservice	 or pay of the 'Government but is also performing  apublic	duty, he has delegated to him the functions  of	 theGovernment or is in any event performing duties immediately'auxiliary  to  those of some one who is an  officer  of	 theGovernment  and is therefore 'an officer' of the  Governmentwithin the meaning of section 21(9), Indian Penal Code.Applying  this test to the facts of the case before  us,  wefind  that  the appellant was a Class III  servant  and	 wasemployed as a metal examiner known as Chaser in the  RailwayCarriage  Workshop.  He was working under the Works  Managerwho was certainly(1) A.I.R. 1918 Lah. 152.(2) I.L.R. 7 Madras 18,690an  officer  of	 the  Government and  the  duties  which  heperformed  were immediately auxiliary to those of the  WorksManager	 who, beside being an officer of the Government	 wasalso  armed with some authority or representative  characterqua  the  Government.	The appellant was thus,	 even  on  anarrow interpretation of the dicta of West, J. in 12  BombayHigh  Court Reports 1, an officer in the service or  pay  ofthe Government performing as such a public duty entrusted tohim  by the Government and was therefore, a  public  servantwithin the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.This  being the true legal position, this contention of	 theappellant  also	 does not avail him and the  first  questionmust be answered against him.The appellant was, therefore, an officer within the  meaningof  section 21(9) and therefore a public servant within	 themeaning	 of  section 21, Indian Penal Code  and	 being	suchpublic	servant	 be fell within the definition of  a  publicservant	 contained  in	section	 2  of	the  Prevention	  ofCorruption Act II of 1947.  He was, therefore, on the  factsand  circumstances  of	the case,  rightly  convicted  undersection 5(1) (d) of Act II of 1947.  His conviction and	 thesentence imposed upon him by the Courts below were thereforequite  in  order  and  this  appeal  must  therefore   standdismissed.691