PETITIONER:CHIEF COMMISSIONER, AJMER	Vs.RESPONDENT:RADHEY SHYAM DANI.DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/11/1956BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  304		  1957 SCR   68ACT:Municipal  Election-Electoral roll-Election Rules-No  Provi-sion for revision of electoral roll and for adjudication  ofclaims	 Validity   of	the   electoral	  roll-Ajmer-MerwaraMunicipalities Regulation,1925 (VI Of 1925), ss. 30 (2), 43-Ajmer State Municipalities Election Rules, 1955, r. 7.HEADNOTE:Sub-section (2) Of S. 30 of the Ajmer-Merwara MunicipalitiesRegulation,  925, as amended, provided that "  every  personwho would be entitled under the Representation of the PeopleAct, 1950 (XLIII of 1950) to be registered in the  electoralroll  for a Parliamentary Constituency if that	Constituencyhad been co-extensive with the Municipality, and whose	nameis  registered in the electoral roll for  the  ParliamentaryConstituency comprising the Municipality, shall be  entitledto be enrolled as an elector of the Municipality"; and s. 43enabled the Chief Commissioner to make rules consistent withthe Regulation for the preparation and revision of electoralrolls  and  the adjudication of claims to  be  enrolled	 andobjections to enrolment.In exercise of this power the appellant framed Rules  which,inter  alia,  provided	that  the  electoral  roll  for	 theparticular  Municipality  shall	 be the same  as  the  finalprinted roll for the Parliamentary Constituency representingthe  area  covered  by the  Municipality.   He	notified  anelection  programme and also authenticated and published  anelectoral  roll	 on August 8, 1955.   The  respondent  whosefather's  name	was recited wrongly in	the  electoral	rollapplied	 for  rectification of the mistake  in	the  Parlia-mentary	 Electoral  Roll,  on August 10, 1955,	but  it	 wasrejected  on  the  ground that the  roll  of  the  Municipalelections had been finally published on August 8, 1955,	 andtherefore  no  correction  could be  made.   The  respondentchallenged   the  validity  of	the  notification  and	 theelectoral roll.Held,	that   under  s.  30  (2)   Of	 the   Ajmer-MerwaraMunicipalities Regulation, 1925, the electoral roll for	 theParliamentary constituency was only treated as the basis forthe electoral roll of the Municipality and that the rules inso  far	 as they made no provision for the revision  of	 theelectoral  roll,  for  the  adjudication  of  claims  to  beincluded  therein  or for entertaining	objections  to	suchinclusion, were defective and, therefore, the electoral rollof  the	 Ajmer	Municipality  which  was  authenticated	 andpublished  by  the appellant on August 8, 1955, was  not  inconformity  with  the  provisions  of  S.  30  (2)  and	 therelevant,provisions of the Regulation69and  could not form the basis of any valid elections  to  beheld to the Ajmer Municipal Committee.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 181 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  5,1955,  of the  Judicial  Commissioner's  Court,Ajmer, in Civil Writ Petition No. 108 of 1955.M. M. Kaul and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellants.The respondent did not appear.1956.  November 15.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyBHAGWATI  J.-This is an appeal with special leave  from	 thejudgment  of the Judicial Commissioner,	 Ajmer,	 restrainingthe  District Magistrate, Ajmer, from holding the  electionsand  poll to the Ajmer Municipal Committee on  September  9,1955.The   respondent  claimed  to  be  a  voter  of	 the   AjmerMunicipality.	By an order dated March 12, 1953, the  AjmerMunicipal  Committee had been suspended and that  suspensionwas  to	 continue till September 11, 1955.  In view  of	 theimpending elections after the period of suspension was over,the  Chief  Commissioner, Ajmer, the  appellant	 before	 us,framed the Ajmer State Municipalities Election Rules,  1955,in  exercise of the powers conferred by s. 43 of the  Ajmer-Merwara	 Municipalities	 Regulation, 1925 (VI of  1925)	 andpublished  them	 in the Government Gazette dated  August  4,1955.  On August 8, 1955, he notified an election  programmeand  also  authenticated and published	an  electoral  roll.This  electoral roll had been corrected and altered  by	 theorders	of the Sub-Divisional Officer on certain days  priorto August 8, 1955, but the respondent's name was alleged  tohave  been incorrectly described therein, his father's	namehaving	been mentioned as Ratan Lal instead of	Chitar	Mal.On  August  10, 1955, he applied for the correction  of	 hisfather's  name	in the Parliamentary Electoral Roll  and  onAugust	16,  1955,  he	filed  his  nomination	paper.	 Hisnomination was, however, rejected on August 17, 1955,70the  Returning	Officer stating that he was not one  of	 theelectors  according  to	 the  roll.   His  application	 forrectification of the mistake in the Parliamentary  ElectoralRoll was also rejected on August 18, 1955, by the  ElectoralRegistration  Officer  on the ground that the  roll  of	 theMunicipal elections had been finally published on August  8,1955,  and  therefore  no correction  could  be	 made.	 Therespondent  thereupon  filed  on August	 26,  1955,  a	writpetition  being Civil Writ Petition No. 108 of 1955  in	 theCourt  of the Judicial.	 Commissioner at Ajmer	against	 theappellant and the District Magistrate, Ajmer, inter alia fora  mandamus against the appellant to reconstitute the  AjmerMunicipal  Committee  by  a  properly  made  and   publishednotification  under s. 8(1) of the Regulation and  an  orderagainst the District Magistrate, Ajmer, restraining him fromholding	 the  elections	 and poll  to  the  Ajmer  MunicipalCommittee on September 9, 1955, as notified.The  learned Judicial Commissioner upheld the contention  ofthe  respondent	 in  regard to	the  reconstitution  of	 theCommittee but did not issue any directions in regard to	 thesame  in  view of the fact that the  appellant	had  alreadybefore that date issued a notification under s. 8(1) of	 theRegulation to reconstitute the Committee.  He also held thatRule 7 of the Election Rules was not in consonance with	 andwas in contradiction to s. 30, sub-s. (2), of the Regulationand  was in excess of the rule-making power  conferred	uponhim,  and the elections proposed to be held on September  9,1955, were not lawful.	He, therefore, directed the DistrictMagistrate, Ajmer, to refrain from holding the elections andpoll to the Ajmer Municipal Committee on September 9, 1955.On  an application made by the appellant for  a	 certificateunder  Art.  133(1)(c)	of  the	 Constitution,	the  learnedJudicial  Commissioner	was of opinion	that  the  directiongiven  by  him against the District Magistrate,	 Ajmer,	 wasmerely	not to hold elections on September 9,,1955,  and  asthat  date  had	 already passed	 when  the  application	 wasdisposed  of  by him, no useful purpose would be  served  bygranting  him  a certificate and he accordingly	 refused  togrant the same.	 The appellant,71however,  approached this Court and obtained  special  leaveunder Art. 136 for filing an appeal against the, decision ofthe learned Judicial Commissioner.When  the  appeal  came	 up  for  hearing  before  us,	 therespondent  communicated to us his desire not to appear	 andcontest the appeal with the result that the appeal has	beenheard by us exparte.At the outset we pointed out to the learned counsel for	 theappellant   that  the  appeal  had  become  academic.	 Theappellant  had	in fact reconstituted  the  Ajmer  MunicipalCommittee  by  a proper notification under s.  8(1)  of	 theRegulation and the date on which the elections and the	pollto  the	 Ajmer Municipal Committee were to  he	held,  viz.,September 9, 1955, had also passed.  The learned counsel forthe   appellant,   however,  urged  before   us	  that	 thepronouncement  of the learned Judicial Commissioner  to	 theeffect	that  Rule  7  of the  Election	 Rules	was  not  inconsonance  with and was in contradiction to s.	 30,  sub-s.(2), of the Regulation and was in excess of the	 rule-makingpower conferred upon the appellant was a stumbling block  inthe  way of the appellant holding further elections  on	 thebasis of the electoral roll as it had been authenticated andpublished  by him on August 8, 1955.  If that  pronouncementstood,	 it   would  be	 incumbent  on	the   appellant	  toauthenticate  and publish another electoral roll  and  incurthe  expenses  which were inevitable in that  process.	 He,therefore,  pressed  upon us that we should set	 aside	thatpronouncement  so that the Municipal elections may  be	heldhereafter  without straining the attenuated finances of	 theMunicipality.The  relevant provisions which fall to be considered  by  usare the following:-"  Section  30. (1): A person shall not be deemed to  be  anelector	 for any purpose of this Regulation or of  any	ruleunless he is enrolled as an elector.(2)as amended by Act LX V of 1950: Every person who would beentitled  under the Representation of the People  Act,	1950(XLIII of 1950) -to be registered in the electoral roll	 fora Parliamentary Constituency if72that   Constituency   had   been   co-extensive	  with	 theMunicipality, and whose name is registered in the  electoralroll  for  the	Parliamentary  Constituency  comprising	 theMunicipality shall be entitled to be enrolled as an  electorof the Municipality.Section	 43:  The Chief Commissioner may,  by  notification,make  rules consistent with this Regulation for the  purposeof  regulating all or any of the following matters,  namely,:-(a).......................(b)..........................(c)the preparation and revision of electoral rolls, and	 theadjudication  of  claims to be enrolled	 and  objections  toenrolment;Section 248. (4): On publication in the official Gazette  ofany rules made under this Regulation, such rules shall	haveeffect as if enacted in this Regulation.Elections Rules:Rule 7-Electoral rolls: In accordance with the provisions ofsub-section   (2)  of  section	30  of	the  Ajmer   MerwaraMunicipalities	Regulation, 1925 (VI of 1925) the  electoralroll of the particular Municipality shall be the same as thefinal	printed	 roll  for  a	Parliamentary	Constituencyrepresenting the area covered by that Municipality.Rule. 9-Electors: No person shall be deemed to be an electorfor  the purposes of these rules unless his name appears  inthe electoral rolls. mentioned aboveIt  is clear from s. 30, sub-s. (2), of the Regulation	thatin  order to be entitled to be enrolled as an elector  of  aMunicipality, a person has to fulfill two conditions,  viz.,(1) that he should be entitled under the Re. presentation ofthe People Act, 1950 (XLIII of 1950) to be registered in theelectoral  roll	 for a Parliamentary  Constituency  if	thatConstituency had been co-extensive with the Municipality' nd(2) that his name should be registered in the electoral rollfor    a   Parliamentary   Constituency	   comprising	 theMunicipality.  If73both these conditions are fulfilled he would be entitled  tobe enrolled as an elector of the Municipality.	In regard tothe   first  condition	reference  need	 be  made   to	 thequalifications	prescribed  for	 being	registered  in	 theelectoral roll for the Parliamentary Constituency and it  isonly  if  these qualifications are possessed by	 the  personthat  he would be entitled to be so registered.	  In  order,therefore,  to determine whether a person is entitled to  beenrolled  as  an  elector of a	Municipality,  it  would  benecessary  to ascertain in the first instance whether he  isentitled  to  be registered in the electoral  roll  for	 theParliamentary	Constituency.	 Once  that   condition	  isfulfilled, it would be further necessary to consider whetherhis  name  is  registered  in the  electoral  roll  for	 theParliamentary Constituency.  If, in spite of his  fulfillingthe  condition that he is entitled to be registered  in	 theelectoral roll for the Parliamentary Constituency, his	nameis  not	 registered in the electoral roll for the  same,  hewould  not be entitled to be enrolled as an elector  of	 theMunicipality.	The  latter condition does not	require	 anyscrutiny  for  its  fulfillment.   The	fact  of  his  beingregistered  in	the  electoral roll  for  the  ParliamentaryConstituency would be apparent on the face of the  electoralroll  itself.	The  fulfillment  of  the  first  condition,however,  would be subject to scrutiny and it would be	opento  any	 resident  of  the Municipality	 to  object  to	 theenrolment  of  a  particular person as	an  elector  of	 theMunicipality.	Even in the case of the electoral  roll	 forthe Parliamentary Constituency it would be open to a  personto  apply  for	a revision of that roll by  applying  for  acorrection  of the mistakes or mis-descriptions which  mighthave  crept therein as also to have his name  registered  inthe  roll  if  it had not been	so  registered	provided  hefulfilled the first condition, viz., that he was entitled tobe  registered in the electoral roll for  the  ParliamentaryConstituency.	Objections  could  also	 be  filed  to	 theenrolment   of	particular  persons  as	 electors   in	 theParliamentary  Constituency  and also in  the  Municipality.Apart  from  the preparation of the electoral roll  for	 theMunicipality  it would, therefore, be necessary to  have  a,revision of such electoral rolls and1974also  the adjudication of claims to be enrolled therein	 andobjections to such enrolment.This  was  clearly envisaged by the framers  of	 the  Ajmer-Merwara	 Municipalities Regulation, 1925, and with that	 endin  view  it  was  provided  in	 s.  43(c)  that  the  ChiefCommissioner may by notification make rules consistent	withthe Regulation for the purpose of regulating inter alia	 thepreparation   and  revision  of	 electoral  rolls  and	 theadjudication of claims to be enrolled and the objections  toenrolment.   Such  rules when framed and  published  in	 theofficial Gazette were, by virtue of s. 248(4) to have effectas  if	enacted	 in  the  Regulation.	They  were  to	havestatutory  effect and were to be treated as part and  parcelof the Regulation and contained therein.Before the amendment of s. 30, sub-s. (2), of the Regulationby  Act LXV of 1950 there were in existence sub-ss. (2)	 and(3) of that section which prescribed the qualifications	 forbeing enrolled as electors of the Municipality.	 They  were,however,  substituted by the amended s. 30, sub-s. (2),	 setout hereinabove.  It thus substituted for the qualificationswhich  had  till  then been considered	requisite  for	suchenrolment  all the qualifications which were  required.	 forbeing registered in the electoral roll for the ParliamentaryConstituency.	That, however, was a  provision	 prescribingthe  qualifications for the purposes of such  enrolment	 andthe object of the amendment was to adopt the electoral	rollfor  the  Parliamentary Constituency as the  basis  for	 theelectoral  roll of the Municipality.  It did  not  eliminatethe  further  steps in the matter of the  revision  of	suchelectoral  roll	 as also the adjudication of  claims  to  beenrolled  therein and objections to such  enrollments.	 Theamendment  did	not obviate the necessity  of  taking  thesefurther	 steps	inspite	 of  the  electoral  roll  for	 theParliamentary  Constituency being treated as the  electoral,roll  of the Municipality.  By thus treating  the  electoralroll for the Parliamentary Constituency as the basis for theelectoral roll of the Municipality, the trouble and expensesinvolved  in the preparation of the electoral roll  for	 theMunicipality  were  saved-  but	 the  Municipality  was	 notabsolved75from  the obligation of providing for the revision  of	suchelectoral  roll as well as the adjudication of claims to  beenrolled therein and objections to such enrolment.When  the Ajmer State Municipalities Election  Rules,  1955,came  to be framed in exercise of the power conferred by  s.43  of the Regulation, the Chief Commissioner framed Rule  7which  provided that the electoral roll for  the  particularMunicipality shall be the same as the final printed roll forthe Parliamentary Constituency representing the area coveredby  the	 Municipality.	He dispensed  with  the	 independentpreparation  by the Municipality of the electoral  roll	 butdid  nothing further.  Rule 9 provided that no person  shallbe  deemed  to be an elector for the purpose  of  the  Rulesunless	his name appeared in the electoral  rolls  mentionedabove.	That had reference obviously to the second conditionprescribed  in s. 30, sub-s. (2), of the Regulation but	 didnot go far enough.  It did not say that a person whose	nameappeared  in  the  electoral  rolls  for  the  ParliamentaryConstituency  was  to  be deemed to be an  elector  for	 thepurposes  of  the Rules so as to obviate  the  necessity  offulfilling  the	 first	condition  therein  prescribed	 andrightly	 so,  because,	if it did say so,  it  would  be  inconflict  with s. 30, sub-s. (2), of the Regulation.   TheseRules did not eliminate the scrutiny which could be made  atthe instance of the parties concerned as to whether a personwhose  name  was registered in the electoral  roll  for	 theParliamentary  Constituency was in fact entitled  under	 theRepresentation of the People Act, 1950 (XLIII of 1950) to beso  registered	and whether he possessed  the  qualificationprescribed in that Act in this behalf nor did they eliminatethe further scrutiny for the purpose of the revision of suchelectoral roll or the adjudication of claims to be  enrolledtherein and objections to such enrolment.It  is	of  the	 essence  of  these  elections	that  properelectoral  rolls  should be maintained and in order  that  aproper	electoral roll should be maintained it is  necessarythat after the preparation of the electoral roll76opportunity  should  be given to the  parties  concerned  toscrutinize   whether  the  persons  enrolled   as   electorspossessed the requisite qualifications.	 Opportunity  shouldalso be given for the revision of the electoral roll and forthe  adjudication  of  claims to  be  enrolled	therein	 andentertaining objections to such enrolnaent.  Unless this  isdone,  the  entire  obligation	cast  upon  the	 authoritiesholding	 the elections is not discharged and  the  electionsheld  on  such imperfect electoral rolls  would	 acquire  novalidity  and  would  be  liable to  be	 challenged  at	 theinstance  of the parties concerned.  It was in our  opinion,therefore,  necessary  for the Chief Commissioner  to  framerules in this behalf, and in so far as the rules which	werethus framed omitted these provisions they were defective.It  was urged that the expression " the final  printed	rollfor  the  Parliamentary Constituency " predicated  that	 theelectoral  roll for the Parliamentary Constituency had	beenfinalised  after  going	 through  the  whole  procedure	  inaccordance with the provisions of the Representation of	 thePeople	Act, 1950 (XLIII of 1950) and, therefore, there	 wasno necessity for making any further provision of that naturein  the	 matter of the electoral roll of  the  Municipality.This  contention  is unsound for the simple reason  that  byusing this phraseology the whole of the procedure laid	downin  the	 Representation of the People Act,  1950  (XLIII  of1950)  is not bodily incorporated in the Ajmer-Merwar  Muni-cipalities  Regulation,	 1925  (VI of  1925).	Neither	 theRegulation nor the Rules which have been framed by the ChiefCommissioner in exercise of the powers conferred under s. 43of the Regulation make any mention of any such incorporationnor  is	 it  possible  to  urge	 that,	merely	because	 theelectoral  roll	 for  the  Parliamentary  Constituency	 wastreated	 as  the  basis	 for  the  electoral  roll  of	 theMunicipality,  these provisions were bodily incorporated  inthe Rules.  If Rules 7 and 9 above referred to were intendedto  form  a  complete  code  for  the  finalisation  of	 theelectoral  roll of the Municipality they did not  serve	 theintended  purpose  and	were either  inconsistent  with	 theprovisions  of s. 30, sub-s. (2), of the Regulation or	weredefective in so far as they77failed	to  provide the proper procedure for taking  of	 thesteps  therein above indicated for finalising the  electoralroll of the Municipality.  If that was the true position theelectoral   roll   of  the  Municipality  which	  had	beenauthenticated  and  published by the Chief  Commissioner  onAugust 8, 1955, was certainly not an electoral roll preparedin  accordance with law on the basis of which the  electionsand  poll  to the Ajmer Municipal Committee  could  be	heldeither on September 9, 1955, or at any time thereafter.In  the view which we hold, it is not necessary to  considerwhether,  in  the event of an inconsistency between  s.	 30,sub-s.	(2), of the Regulation and the Rules framed  by	 theChief Commissioner in exercise of the power conferred  unders.  43 of the Regulation, the section would prevail  or	 theRules.	 Suffice  it to say that the electoral roll  of	 theAjmer Municipality which was authenticated and published  bythe  Chief  Commissioner  on  August 8,	 1955,	was  not  inconformity with the provisions of s. 30, sub-s. (2), and therelevant provisions of the Regulation and could not form thebasis  of  any	valid  elections to be	held  to  the  AjmerMunicipal Committee.Under  the circumstances we see no substance in	 the  appealand  dismiss the same.	There will be, however, no order  asto  costs of the appeal in so far as the respondent has	 notappeared and contested the appeal before us.Appeal dismissed.