PETITIONER:W.   O. HOLDSWORTH AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:04/09/1957BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1957 AIR  887		  1958 SCR  296ACT:Agricultural Income-tax-Will--Trust-Annuities--Land held  bytrustee, whether on behalf of annuitants-Nature of  interestOf annuitants, whether joint-Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (II  of1882),S.  3.-  U. P. Agricultural Income-tax Act,  1948	 (U.P. III Of 1949), SS. 2(11), 3, 11(1).HEADNOTE:Section	 11(  1) of the U. P. Agricultural  Income-tax	Act,1948,  provided:  "Where any person holds land,	 from  whichagricultural   income  is  derived,  as	 a  common   managerappointed under any law for the time being in force or underany  agreement or as receiver, administrator or the like  onbehalf of persons jointly interested in such land or in	 theagricultural income derived therefrom, the aggregate of	 thesums  payable as agricultural income-tax by each  person  onthe agricultural income derived from such land and  receivedby him, shall be assessed on such common manager,  receiver,administrator or the like, and he shall be deemed to be	 theassessee  in  respect  of  the	agricultural  income-tax  sopayable	 by each such person and shall be liable to pay	 thesame."The  appellants	 were the trustees of an estate	 settled  ontrust  under  a	 will which inter  alia	 provided  that	 thetrustees were to take possession of the trust properties andto  manage the same with all the powers of  absolute  ownersand to pay the annuities to certain persons.  The  assessingauthority assessed the appellants to agricultural income-taxupon  the  total  agricultural	income	received  by   them,overruling their contention that the tax should be  computedin accordance with the method of computation laid down in s.11(1) of the Act and that they should be called upon to	 paythe aggregate of the sums payable as agricultural income-taxby each of the annuitants.Held:	  (1) that the trustees who were the legal owners ofthe  trust  property  did  not	hold  the  land	 from  whichagricultural income was derived, on behalf of the annuitantsand   that  each  of  the  annuitants  was   separately	  orindividually  interested in the agricultural income  derivedfrom the land comprised in the trust estate to the extent ofthe annuity payable to him.(2)  that s. 11(1) of the Act was not applicable to the caseand  that  the appellants were liable  to  pay	agriculturalincome-tax  upon the total agricultural income	received  bythemJUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.389 of 1956.297Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril 19, 1955, of the Allahabad High Court in	AgriculturalIncome-tax Miscellaneous Case No. 202 of 1952.G.   S. Pathak and G. C. Mathur, for the appellants.K.   L. Misra, Advocate-General of Uttar Pradesh, and C.   P.Lal, for the respondent.1957.  September 4. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI,  J.-This  appeal with special	 leave	against	 thejudgment of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad raisesa  question  of the interpretation of s. 11(1) of  the	U.P.Agricultural   Income-tax  Act,	 1948,	Act  III   of	1949(hereinafter referred to as "the Act").The  appellants	 are the trustees of the estate	 settled  ontrust  under the last will and testament dated May  17,1917,of  one J. J. Holdsworth which, inter alia, comprised  of  acertain	 zamindari estate known as the Lehra Estate  situatein the District of Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh.The clauses of the will so far as they are relevant for	 thepurpose	 of this appeal provided that the trustees  were  totake possession of all real property in the United Provincesof  Agra and Oudh and elsewhere in British India  (includingthe  houses at Lehra and Gorakhpur and the grounds  thereof)and  all  live	and dead stock in or  about  his  estate  inBritish	 India or any buildings thereon and the contents  ofany  houses  or stabling in British India belonging  to	 him(which	was  called his estate) and manage the same  in	 allrespects  and in such manner as they shall deem most  advan.tageous	 and  with all the powers of absolute  owners.	 Thetrustees  were	to  stand possessed of	the  net  rents	 andprofits	  of  the  settled  estate  after  payment  of	 theGovernment land revenue tax, and of all management expenses,upon   trust  to  pay  thereout	 certain  annuities  to	  12annuitants therein mentioned.  If the net rents and  profitsof the said estate were less than seventy thousand rupees inany year or if the said estate or any portion thereof  shallbe  sold at less than twenty years purchase of the net	rentof seventy thousand rupees or298an   equivalent	 proportion  thereof  in  respect   of	 theproportion  so sold, the annuities bequeathed as  above	 andfor  the time being payable except annuities Nos.  (1),	 (2)and (3) were to abate proportionately and no such  annuitantwas  entitled to have the deficiency of his or	her  annuitymade good out of the rents and profits of the said estate inrespect	 of any subsequent year.  If there was	no  survivoralive then it was to go William Orlando Holdsworth, the	 sonof  the testator.  Seven of the said annuitants died and  atthe relevant   period the following annuities werepayable:       (i) Mrs. J. C. Holdsworthpound 2,500/-     (ii) Mr. W. 0. Holdsworthpound 1,000/-     (iii) Miss Lucy Marion Holdsworthpound 50/-(iv) Lt.  Col.	L. R. J. C. Wilkinsonpound 500/-      (v) Mr. Horace Claud Holdsworthpound 400/ -The  trustees entered upon the trust and managed  the  trustproperties  in accordance with the terms of the	 said  will.The  Act came into force in 1949 and a notice of  assessmentof  agricultural income-tax was issued to the  trustees	 forthe year 1357 Fasli (1949-50).The Additional Collector, Gorakhpur, the assessing authorityfor  the area in question, by his order dated  December	 14,1950, assessed the' trustees to agricultural income-tax uponthe  total agricultural income received by them,  overrulingtheir  contention  that	 the  tax  should  be  computed	  inaccordance  with the method of computation laid down  in  s.11(1) of the Act and that they should be called upon to	 paythe aggregate of the sums payable as agricultural income-taxby each of the five annuitants.The  trustees  preferred an appeal before  the	AgriculturalIncome-tax  Commissioner,  Lucknow, who by  an	order  datedNovember  22,  1951,  upheld the  order	 of  the  AdditionalCollector.  He observed that the beneficiaries were  neitherjointly	 interested in the land held by the trustees nor  inthe  agricultural  income derived therefrom,  and  that	 theagricultural  income  of  the Lehra Estate  accrued  to	 thetrustees  and not to the beneficiaries directly as  it	leftthe hands of the various tenants who paid rent or from self-cultivation that was done by the trustees themselves.,299The  trustees then moved an application under a. 24  (2)  ofthe Act before the Agricultural Income-tax Board, U.P.,	 forreference of certain questions of law to the High Court	 forits decision.  The said Board however decided to act,  underthe third proviso to s. 24(2) of the Act and to	 considerthequestions  of  law itself instead of referring them  to	 theHigh Court for its decision.  In the exercise of this  powerthe Board held inter alia that the entire property vested inthe trustees and that the latter could not claim the benefitof s. 11 of the Act and refused to make a reference.The trustees moved an application under s. 24(4) of the	 Actbefore	the  High Court of Judicature at  Allahabad  prayingthat   the  High  Court	 may  be  pleased  to  require	 theAgricultural  Income-tax  Board, U.P., Lucknow, to  state  acase and to refer to the High Court certain questions of lawarising	 in  the case.	The application was allowed  by	 theHigh  Court  on February 5, 1953, and an  order	 was  passeddirecting  the said Board to refer the relevant question  oflaw to the High Court.Accordingly  a	statement  of  case  was  drawn	 up  by	 theAgricultural  Income-tax  Board and submitted  to  the	HighCourt and the following question of law was referred for itsdecision:" Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the	casethe  trustees  can be said to be holding land on  behalf  ofbeneficiaries  and  can	 the beneficiaries  be	said  to  bejointly interested in the land or in the agricultural incomederived	 therefrom within the meaning of Section 11  (1)  ofthe U.P. Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1948 ?"The  said reference was heard by the High Court and  by	 itsjudgment dated April 19, 1955, the High Court held that	 thetrustees  could	 be  said to be holding land  on  behalf  ofbeneficiaries but the beneficiaries could not be said to  bejointly interested in the land or in the agricultural incomederived	 therefrom within the meaning of s. 1 1 (1)  of	 theAct and accordingly answered the first part of the  questionin the affirmative and the latter half in the negative.300Thereupon the trustees filed an application before the	HighCourt  under  Art. 133(1) of the Constitution for  leave  toappeal to this Court which was rejected with the result thatthe  trustees  applied for and obtained on April  16,  1956,special	 leave	to appeal against the judgment of  the	HighCourt.Section 11(1) of the Act which falls to be considered by  usruns as under:"  Where  any  person holds land,  from	 which	agriculturalincome	is derived, as a common manager appointed under	 anylaw for the time being in force or under any agreement or asreceiver,  administrator  or the like on behalf	 of  personsjointly	 interested  in	 such land or  in  the	agriculturalincome derived therefrom, the aggregate of the sums  payableas   agricultural   income-tax	by  each   person   on	 theagricultural income derived from such land and, received  byhim,  shall  be assessed on such common	 manager,  receiver,administrator or the like, and he shall be deemed to be	 theassessee  in  respect  of  the	agricultural  income-tax  sopayable	 by each such person and shall be-liable to pay	 thesame."This section concerns itself with the mode of computation ofagricultural  income-tax  in certain  cases.   The  chargingsection	 is  however  s.  3  of	 the  Act  which  talks	  ofagricultural  income-tax and super-tax at the rate or  ratesspecified  in  the schedule to be charged for each  year  inaccordance  with,  and	subject to  the	 provisions  of	 theAct......  and rules framed under cls. (a), (b) and  (c)  ofsub-s. (2) of s. 44, on the total agricultural income of theprevious  year of every -person.  "1 Person " is defined  ins.   2(11)   to	 mean  an  individual  or   association	  ofindividuals,  owning or holding property for himself or	 forany other, or partly for his own benefit and partly for thatof  another,  either as owner, trustee,	 receiver,  manager,administrator, or executor or in any capacity recognized  bylaw, and includes an undivided Hindu family, firm or companybut  not  to include a local authority.	  According  to	 theabove definition the trustees before us would be included inthe definition of " person " and would as such be liable  toagricultural income-tax under the301charging  section.  That liability to pay  income-tax  wouldhowever	 be on the trustees as a "person"  without  anythingmore.	Where  however	s. 11(1) comes	into  operation	 theagricultural  income-tax  would	 be  assessed  not  on	 theordinary  computation  but  on	the  computation   specifiedtherein	 which has the effect of reducing the  incidence  ofthe tax by reason of the person being liable to pay only theaggregate of the sums payable as agricultural income-tax  byeach  of the persons jointly interested in such land  or  inthe agricultural income derived therefrom.Two conditions are requisite before s. 11 (1) can come	intooperation:  (1)	 that  the  person  holds  land	 from  whichagricultural   income  is  derived,  as	 a  common   managerappointed under any law for the time being in force or underany  agreement or as receiver, administrator or the like  onbehalf	of  other  persons and (2) such	 persons  should  bejointly	 interested  in	 such land or  in  the	agriculturalincome	derived	 therefrom.  If both  these  conditions	 aresatisfied  the	person	holding such land is  liable  to  beassessed in the manner specified in s. 11(1) of the Act	 andthe aggregate of the sums payable as agricultural income-taxby each of these persons jointly interested on his share  ofthe agricultural income derived from such land and  actuallyreceived  by him is to be assessed on such  common  manager,receiver, administrator or the like, and the latter is to bedeemed	the assessee in respect of the agricultural  income-tax so payable by each such person and is liable to pay	 thesame.It is to be noted that the primary liability for the paymentof   agricultural  income-tax  is  on  the  person  who	  isinterested in the land or in the agricultural income derivedtherefrom.   The incidence of the tax is on that person	 andthe  amount  of	 tax is determined  with  reference  to	 theaggregate  income derived by him.  Inasmuch as however	suchland is held by some other person who@ is a common  manager,receiver, administrator or the like on behalf of such personand  others  jointly  interested  in such  land	 or  in	 theagricultural  income  derived  therefrom,  the	agriculturalincome-tax is assessed on such common manager,302receiver,   administrator  or  the  like  instead   of	 theassessment being made on each of such persons who is jointlyinterested  in	such  land or, in  the	agricultural  incomederived	 therefrom.   Section 11.(1) prescribes	 a  mode  ofassessing  such common manager, receiver,  administrator  orthe  like and he is deemed to be the assessee in respect  ofagricultural  income-tax so payable by each such person	 andis liable to pay the same.Such  common  manager, receiver, administrator or  the	likewould  certainly  be  covered by the  definition  of  personcontained in s. 2(11) of the Act because he would be holdingproperty  for others as receiver, manager, administrator  orthe like and would be liable to pay the agricultural income-tax on the agricultural income derived by him from the	landwhich  he  thus	 held.	 If  there  was	 nothing  more,	 theincidence of the tax would be on the total income which	 hascome to his hands.  But, in so far as he holds the land fromwhich agricultural income is derived as such common manager,receiver, administrator or the like on behalf of the personsjointly	 interested  in	 such land or  in  the	agriculturalincome	derived	 therefrom, the agricultural  income-tax  islevied	not  on the computation of  the	 whole	agriculturalincome	which has come to his hands but if; limited  to	 theaggregate of the sums payable as agricultural income-tax  byeach  of the persons jointly interested in such land  or  inthe  agricultural income derived therefrom and	received  byhim.	The  agricultural  income-tax  in  such	  cases	  isdetermined  with  reference to each of the  persons  jointlyinterested  in	such  land or  in  the	agricultural  incomederived	 therefrom, and the agricultural income-tax  payableby each of such persons is computed on the actual amount  ofthe agricultural income derived from such land and  receivedby him and the aggregate of the sums payable as agriculturalincome-tax  by	each  of such persons is  assessed  on	suchcommon manager, receiver, administrator or the like with theresult	that he pays agricultural income-tax which would  besubstantially lower than what he would have otherwise had topay  if	 the  computation  of such  tax	 was  on  the  totalagricultural income303derived	 from such land and come to his hands.	Such  commonmanager,  receiver, administrator or the like would  in	 thecourse of management or administration of such land debit tothe  account  of each such person an aliquot  share  of	 thewhole  of the agricultural income-tax paid by him.  If	suchcommon	manager,  receiver, administrator or the  like	wereassessed  on  the total income derived from the	 land  whichcomes to his hands, the amount thus debited to each of	suchpersons	 would	be larger than the amount which	 the  latterwould  have  to pay by way of  agricultural  income-tax,  ifagricultural  income-tax was levied on the actual amount  ofagricultural  income derived from such land and received  byhim  as falling to his share.  This provision  therefore  isdesigned to lower the incidence of the agricultural  income-tax upon each such person and such common manager, receiver,administrator  or the like by virtue of these provisions  isdeemed to be the assessee in respect of agricultural income-tax so payable by each such person and is made liable to paythe same.This position however is not available unless and until suchcommon	manager, receiver, administrator or the like  holds,the land from which agricultural income is derived on behalfof  persons  jointly  interested  in such  land	 or  in	 theagricultural income derived therefrom.	Such common manager,receiver, administrator or the like should hold the land  onbehalf of these persons and not on his own behalf.  The verywords  " on behalf of " predicate that the land is  held  bysuch common manager, receiver, administrator or the like notas  the	 owner but as the agent or representative  of  thesepersons	 and  he manages or administers the same  either  inaccordance with law or the terms of the agreement arrived atbetween	 the parties.  There is no vestige of  ownership  inhim  and  all  that he is entitled to do  is  to  manage  oradminister  the	 land on behalf of persons who	are  jointlyinterested  in	the agricultural income	 derived  therefrom.This   could   be   predicated	 of   receivers	   managers,administrators	or  the	 like but cannot  be  predicated  ofowners or304trustees  who  are  equally  with  the	manager,   receiver,administrator or the like included within the definition  of" person "- contained in s. 2(11) of the Act.The case of the owner does not require any elaboration.	  Heholds  the  land  on his own behalf and	 also  for  his	 ownbenefit.  Ho certainly cannot come within the scope of s.  11 (1) of the Act.  The position of a trustee is also similarto  that of the owner.	A trust is thus defined	 in  EnglishLaw:" A trust in the modern and confined sense of the word, is aconfidence  reposed in a person with respect to property  ofwhich  he  has possession or over which he  can	 exercise  apower  to  the	intent	that he may  hold  the	property  orexercise  the power for the benefit of some other person  orobject."  (Vide	 Halsbury's Laws of England,  Hailsham	Ed.,Vol. 33, p. 87, para. 140)."  The	property affected by the confidence  is	 called	 thetrust property or trust estate.	 It is usually in the  legalownership  or under the legal control of the  trustee.	 Thecestui	que trust is said to have a beneficial or  equitableinterest in it." (Ibid p. 89 para. 142).A  trustee  is	thus usually the legal owner  of  the  trustproperty or the trust estate and holds it for the benefit ofthe certui que trust.Reliance was however placed upon an observation of Sir	JohnRomilly, M. R., in Lister v. Pickford (1)" A trustee, who is in possession of land is so on behalf ofhis  cestuis que trust, and his making a mistake as  to	 thepersons	 who are really his cestuis que trust cannot  affectthe question."What  the  Court was considering there was the	question  oflimitation  and	 adverse possession and	 these	observationswere  made  in that context.  It is significant	 however  tonote the further observations of the Master of the Rolls  inthat very context at p. 583:"  Suppose  that  they	had imagined  bona  fide  that	theythemselves  were  personally entitled to the  property,	 andthat  they  were not trustees of it for	 anyone,  it  would,nevertheless, have-been certain that they would(1)  (1865)34 Beav. 576, 582; 55 E.R. 757.			  305have  been trustees for the cestuis que trust, and  no	timewould  run  while they were in such possession.	  The  legalestate	was  vested  in them, no  other	 person	 could	havemaintained an ejectment against them; they are bound to knowthe law, they ought to have taken possession as soon as theysaw  who were the real beneficiary devisees, and,  being  inpossession, they ought to have applied the proper proportionof the rents for the benefit of such residuary devisees."The passage quoted above makes it abundantly clear that	 thelegal estate is vested in the trustees and they hold it	 forthe benefit of the beneficiaries. Whatever be the position in English Law, the Indian  TrustsAct, 1882 (II of 1882) is clear and categoric on this point.Section	 3  of	that Act defines a Trust  as  an  obligationannexed	 to the ownership of property, and arising out of  aconfidence reposed in and accepted by the owner, or declaredand  accepted  by  him, for the benefit of  another,  or  ofanother and the owner: the person who accepts the confidenceis  called the "trustee": the person for whose	benefit	 theconfidence  is	accepted is called the	"beneficiary":	"thebeneficial interest" or "interest" of the beneficiary is hisright  against the trustee as owner of the  trust  property;the  subject matter of the trust is called "trust  property"or "trust money."These definitions emphasize that the trustee is the owner ofthe  trust  property and the beneficiary only  has  a  rightagainst	 the  trustee as owner of the trust  property.	 Thetrustee	 is thus the legal owner of the trust  property	 andthe  property vests in him as such.  He no doubt  holds	 thetrust  property for the benefit of the beneficiaries but  hedoes not hold it on their behalf.  The expressions " for thebenefit	 of " and " on behalf of " are not  synonymous	witheach  other.   They convey different meanings.	 The  formerconnotes a benefit which is enjoyed by another thus bringingin a relationship as between a trustee and a beneficiary  orcestui que trust, the latter connotes an agency which bringsabout a relationship as between principal and agent  betweenthe  parties,  one of whom is acting on behalf	of  another.Section 11(1) therefore can only39306come  into operation where the land from which	agriculturalincome is derived is held by such common manager,  receiver,administrator  or the like on behalf of, in other words,  asagent  or representative of, persons jointly  interested  insuch  land or in the agricultural income derived  therefrom.Even  though such persons were the beneficiaries cestui	 quetrust  under  a deed of trust, they would not  be  comprisedwithin the category of persons on whose behalf such land  isheld by the trustees and the trustees would not be  includedin   the   description	 of   common   manager,	   receiver,administrator or the like so as to attract the operation  ofs.  11(1).   Trustees  do  not	hold  the  land	 from  whichagricultural  income  is derived on behalf  of	the  benefi-ciaries	 but they hold it in their own right though for	 thebenefit of the beneficiaries.The  beneficiaries are also not necessarily persons who	 arejointly	 interested  in	 such land or  in  the	agriculturalincome derived therefrom.  The term "jointly interested"  iswell-known  in law and predicates an undivided	interest  inthe land or in the agricultural income derived therefrom  asdistinguished  from  a separate or  an	individual  interesttherein.  If on a true reading of the provisions of the deedof trust the interest which is created in the  beneficiariesis  a  separate	 or  individual	 interest  of  each  of	 thebeneficiaries  in  the land or in  the	agricultural  incomederived	 therefrom,  merely  because  they  have  a   commoninterest  therein,  that cannot make that interest  a  jointinterest  in the land or in the agricultural income  derivedtherefrom.   The words "jointly interested" have got  to  beunderstood  in their legal sense and having been used  in  astatute	 are  not capable of being understood in  a  popularsense as meaning a common interest or an interest enjoyed byone person in common with another or others.If  regard  be bad to the above construction  put  upon	 theterms  of  s.  11  (1)	of the	Act,  it  follows  that	 theappellants  who	 were trustees of the deed of trust  in	 thepresent	 case did not hold the land from which	agriculturalincome is derived as common manager, receiver, administratoror the like on behalf of the annuitants307and  the annuitants were not jointly interested in the	landor  in	the agricultural income derived therefrom  with	 theresult that s. 11(1) of the Act did not come into  operationat  all.  The appellants were the legal owners of the  trustestate	and  did not hold the land from	 which	agriculturalincome	was derived "on behalf of" the annuitants.  Each  ofthe  annuitants,  moreover, was separately  or	individuallyinterested in the agricultural income derived from the	landcomprised  in the trust estate to the extent of the  annuitypayable	 to him under the deed of trust and the interest  ofone  annuitant was not affected by whatever happened to	 theinterest  of  the other.  There was thus  no  fulfilment  ofeither of the two conditions pre-requisite before s.   11(1)of the Act could come into operation at all. The  learned  judges of the High Court	 were  therefore  inerror  in answering the first part of the question  referredto  them  in  the affirmative, though their  answer  to	 thelatter part in the negative was correct.  We are of  opinionthat  both  the	 parts	of the	question  should  have	beenanswered  by  them  in the negative.   The  ultimate  resulthowever	 is  the same and this appeal of the  appellants  istherefore bound to fail.  The appeal will accordingly  standdismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.40308