PETITIONER:THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:NABA KUMAR SEAL.DATE OF JUDGMENT:29/08/1960BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR   16		  1961 SCR  (1) 368ACT:Acquisition  of	 land-Settlement  of  immigrants-Developmentscheme-If necessary in cases of acquisition under emergency-Absence	 of  development  scheme-If  infringes	 fundamentalrights-West Bengal Development and Planning Act, 1948 (21 of1948), s. 7-Constitution  of  India,  Arts.  14,   19(1)(f),31(2).HEADNOTE:By  a notification under s. 4 of the West Bengal Land  Deve-lopment and Planning Act, 1948, the Government declared thatcertain	 plots	of  land belonging to  the  respondent	wereneeded	for the settlement of immigrants from East  Pakistanand  for  improving  living  conditions	 in  the   locality.Thereafter   a	second	notification  was  issued   by	 theGovernment  under s. 6 read with S. 7 of the  Act  declaringthat  the  plots covered by the previous  notification	wereneeded	for  the same purpose as stated therein.   When	 theGovernment  started  to erect structures on  the  land	thusacquired the respondent moved the High Court under Art.	 226of  the	 Constitution challenging the vires of the  Act	 andimpugning  the legality of the proceedings taken under	tileAct.   The petition was heard by a judge of the	 High  Courtsitting	 singly	 who negatived all the	contentions  of	 thepetitioner  and	 discharged  the rule.	 On  appeal  by	 therespondent under the Letters Patent, a Division Bench of theHigh Court held that the Act did not infringe the provisionsof  Arts. 19(i)(f) and 31(2) of the Constitution.  The	HighCourt  further	held  that it was  incumbent  on  the  StateGovernment to frame a development scheme after possession ofthe  land  had	been taken even though	the  Government	 wasentitled  to deal with the land on an emergency basis  unders. 7 of the Act, which runs thus:-"  In cases of urgency, if in respect of any  notified	areathe State Government is satisfied that the preparation of  adevelopment  scheme  is	 likely to  be	delayed,  the  StateGovernment may, at any time, make a declaration under s.  6,in respect of such notified area or any part thereof  thoughno development scheme has either been prepared or sanctionedunder s. 5 ".The High Court allowed the respondent's appeal and  directeda writ of mandamus to issue to the Government requiring themto  proceed  to frame a development scheme in terms  of	 theAct.  On appeal by the State of West Bengal on a certificategranted by the High Court,369Held,  that  the  High Court was in  error  in	issuing	 themandamus against the appellants.  Section 7 of the Act	com-pletely dispensed with the statutory necessity of  preparinga  scheme of development as envisaged in s. 5 of the Act  incases  where the Government had taken the decision  that  itwas  necessary	to  proceed  further  with  the	 acquisitionproceedings without waiting for a development scheme.No discrimination was implicit in the provisions of s. 7  ofthe  Act  and  no fundamental right  of	 the  appellant	 wasinfringed  either under Art. 14 or Arts. 19(1)(f) and  31(2)of the Constitution.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 212/55.Appeal	from the Judgment and Decree dated July 7, 1953,  ofthe  Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Original  Order	 No.157  of 1952, arising out of the Judgment and  Decree  datedMarch  28,  1952, of the said High Court in Civil  Rule	 No.1409 of 1951.B.   Sen and P. K. Bose for the appellants.P.   K. Ghosh for the respondent.S.   C.	  Mazumdar   for  the  Intervener   (Gopalpur	LandDevelopment Society, Ltd.).1960.	August 29.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySINHA  C. J.-The only substantial question that	 arises	 fordetermination  in this appeal, on a certificate	 granted  bythe  Calcutta  High  Court  under Art.	133  (1)(c)  of	 theConstitution,  is whether the Government of West Bengal	 wasbound to frame a development scheme under the provisions  ofthe  West  Bengal Land Development and Planning Act,  21  of1948, which hereinafter will be referred to as the Act, whenit exercised its power of emergency under s. 7 of the Act.The facts of this case lie within a very narrow compass	 andare  as	 follows: The respondent was the owner of  about  18bighas	of land in a certain village in the district  of  24Parganas.   By	a notification dated January  6,  1950,	 andpublished  in the Calcutta Gazette dated January  12,  1950,under  s.  4 of the Act, the Government	 declared  that	 thecadastral survey370plots,	particulars whereof were given in the  notification,were  likely to be needed for the settlement  of  immigrantsand  for  creation  of	better	living	conditions  in	 thelocality.  Thereafter a notification was' issued under s.  6read  with  s. 7 of the Act and published  in  the  CalcuttaGazette	 dated	April  27, 1950, declaring  that  the  plotscovered by the notification under s. 4 aforesaid were neededfor  the  very same purposes as stated in  the	notificationunder  s.  4. On or about December 16, 1950,  possession  ofthose  plots,  except three, was taken	by  the	 Government.When  the Government started to erect certain structures  onthe  land thus acquired and stored building  materials	nearabout, the respondent moved the High Court under Art. 226 ofthe  Constitution  challenging	the vires  of  the  Act	 andimpugning  the legality of the proceedings taken  under	 theAct.   The  matter  was heard by H.  K.	 Bose,	J.,  sittingsingly.	  Before  him the grounds urged in  support  of	 thepetition  were that the release of the three plots from	 theacquisition proceedings rendered the entire proceedings	 badin law; that there was no urgency for the Government to takesteps  under  s. 7 of the Act, and for issuing	the  notifi-cation	under  s.  6 ; and that the provisions	of  the	 Actinfringed   the	 fundamental  rights  of   the	 respondent,petitioner in the High Court, enshrined in Art. 19(1)(f)  ofthe Constitution.  The learned Judge, by his judgment  datedMarch	28,  1952,  negatived  all  those  contentions	 anddischarged  the	 rule  issued  by  the	High  Court  on	 theGovernment  of West Bengal and others under Art. 226 of	 theConstitution.The respondent preferred an appeal under the Letters Patent.The appeal was heard by a Division Bench consisting of G. N.Das  and Debabrata Mookerjee, JJ.  By their  judgment  datedJuly 7, 1953, it was held that the Act did not infringe	 theprovisions  of	Art.  31 (2) of the  Constitution  and	thattherefore it became unnecessary to express any opinion	withrespect	 to the provisions of Art. 19(1)(f).  But the  Benchalso examined the provisions of the Act in the light of Art.19(1)(f) of the Constitution and came to the conclusion thatthere was no infirmity in the Act,371even on that score, Having decided all the points raised  onbehalf	of the appellant before it, the High  Court  allowedthe  appellant to raise another controversy, which  had	 notbeen raised before the learned single Judge, namely, whetherit  was incumbent on the Government to frame  a	 developmentscheme, after A possession had been taken by it, of the landin question.  Ordinarily, such a controversy should not havebeen allowed to be raised for the first time in the court ofappeal.	  Be that as it may, it came to the conclusion	thateven  though  the Government was entitled to deal  with	 theland  on  an emergency basis under s. 7 of the Act,  it	 wasincumbent  on  the State Government to frame  a	 developmentscheme after possession had been taken.	 The main reason forthis conclusion as given by the High Court is that though s.7 had armed the Government with the power to take possessionof the property before framing a scheme of development,	 thesection	 does not, in terms, dispense with the necessity  offraming	 a development scheme, after the emergency had	beendeclared and possession taken.	In that view of the  matter,the court of appeal allowed the appeal in part and  directeda  writ of mandamus to issue to the respondents	 before	 it,requiring  them to proceed to frame a development scheme  interms  of  the	Act.  The State of  West  Bengal  and  otherofficials who had been impleaded as respondents in the	HighCourt  applied	for leave to appeal to this Court  from	 thesaid  judgment of the appeal court.  The High Court  grantedthe leave prayed for, on condition that the appellants	paidfor  the representation of the respondent before this  Courtby a junior Advocate of this Court.  That is how the  mattercomes before this Court.It  was argued on behalf of the appellants that	 the  appealcourt had misapprehended the scope and effect of ss. 4, 5, 6and  7 of the Act; that the Act contemplated two  categoriesof acquisition proceedings, namely, (1) acquisition under s.6,  after  compliance with the provisions of s.	 5  and	 (2)acquisition in case of an emergency under s. 7 read with  s.6 of the Act; that the condition precedent laid down in s. 5necessitating48372the  framing of a scheme before a declaration under s. 6  ofthe  Act  was  made, is specifically excluded  in  cases  ofemergency  once	 a declaration of emergency under  s.  7  ismade.  The High Court was, therefore, in error in  insistingupon  the framing of a development scheme under s. 5 of	 theAct,  when that section had not been made applicable to	 thecase  of  an emergency acquisition.  Once the  property	 hasbeen acquired it vests in the Government and thereafter	 theoriginal  holder of the property has no say in	the  matter,except on the question of amount of compensation.  Mr.	Sen,for the appellants, finally contended that if the High Courtwas  right in insisting upon a scheme of  development  beingframed, the whole purpose of declaring an emergency would bedefeated.The  learned  counsel for the respondent has  not  made	 anyserious attempt to meet the contentions raised on behalf  ofthe   appellants,  but	has  attempted	to  show  that	 theprovisions of the Act, in so far as they give special powersto  Government to declare an emergency and then	 to  proceedwith  the  acquisition without the necessity  of  framing  ascheme	of development, were unconstitutional, both in	viewof the provisions of Art. 31(2) and Art. 19(1)(f).  He	alsomade  a very feeble attempt to rely upon the  provisions  ofArt.  14  of  the  Constitution	 and  to  suggest  that	 therespondent   was   being  discriminated	  against   in	 theapplication  of the emergency provisions of the Act  to	 hiscase.In  our	 opinion, the contentions raised on  behalf  of	 theappellants  are manifestly well-founded and the	 High  Courtwas  clearly  in error in issuing the mandamus	against	 theappellants.Before dealing with the contentions raised on behalf of	 theparties,  it  is convenient, at this stage, to set  out	 therelevant  provisions of the Act.  The Act replaced the	WestBengal Land Development and Planning Ordinance, 11 of  1948,which  was  in similar terms.  The Act	and  the  Ordinance,which  it replaced, were enacted apparently as a  result  ofthe emergency created by the continual exodus of Hindus fromEast Pakistan on a mass scale and the consequent immigrationof a very large population into West Bengal' as a result  ofthe373partition.   The  Act  was  enacted "  to  provide  for	 theacquisition  and development of land for public purposes  ".It  adopts the definitions of " land ", " Collector " and  "company	 "  as in the Land Acquisition Act, 1  of  1894,  towhich it is, in its terms, supplementary.  In the definitionsection	 2, " development scheme " means, a scheme  for	 thedevelopment of land for any public purpose; and a " notifiedarea  " has been defined as an area declared as	 such  undersub-s.	(1) of s. 4. " Public purpose " has been defined  incl.  (d)  of  s.  2  as	 including  (i)	 the  settlement  ofimmigrants  who have migrated into the State of West  Bengalon  account of circumstances beyond their control, (ii)	 theestablishment  of  towns, model	 villages  and	agriculturalcolonies, (iii) the creation of better living conditions  inurban  and  rural  areas,  and	(iv)  the  improvement	 anddevelopment   of   agriculture,	 forestry,   fisheries	 andindustries  ; but does not include a purpose of	 the  Union.Section	 3 authorises the State Government to appoint the  "prescribed authority " for carrying out the purposes of	 theAct.  Section 4 is, in terms, analogous to s. 4 of the	LandAcquisition  Act  and  authorises the  State  Government  bynotification in the Official Gazette to declare any area  tobe  a notified area on being satisfied that  that  specifiedarea  is  needed or is likely to be needed  for	 any  publicpurpose.   The	Act was amended in 1955 by the	West  BengalAct,  XXIII of 1955, and one of the amendments made by	thatAct  was to add s. 4A making provision for objections to  betaken  by  any	person interested in  any  land	 within	 thenotified area, for an opportunity of being heard and for  anenquiry	 being	made on the merits of such  objections,	 andfinally	 for submission to the State Government of a  reporton the objections raised.  We are not concerned in this casewith  s. 4A, because it was inserted into the Act after	 thedecision  of  the case by the High Court.  Section  5,	withwhich  we  are	mainly concerned in this case  is  in  theseterms:-"5(1).	 The  State  Government may  direct  the  prescribedauthority,  or, if it so thinks fit in any  case,  authoriseany  Company' or local authority, to prepare, in  accordancewith the rules, a development scheme374in  respect of any notified area and thereupon	such  schemeshall  be prepared accordingly and submitted, together	withsuch  particulars as may be prescribed by the rules, to	 theState Government for its sanction :Provided  that no scheme shall be necessary for	 acquisitionof  land for the public purpose specified in sub-clause	 (i)of clause (d) of section 2.(2).	  A  development  scheme  submitted  to	 the   StateGovernment  under  subsection  (1) may,	 after	taking	intoconsideration any report submitted under sub. section (2) ofsection	  4A,  be  sanctioned  by  it  either  without	 anymodification or subject to such modifications as it may deemfit."The proviso to a. 5 was added by the same amending Act (WestBengal	Act XXIII of 1955) and is likewise  inapplicable  tothis case.  Section 6 again is, in terms, analogous to s.  6of  the	 Land  Acquisition  Act,  which	 provides  for	 thedeclaration  to be published in the Official Gazette to	 theeffect that the State Government was satisfied that any landin a notified area, for which a development scheme has	beensanctioned  under  s.  5(2) of the Act, is  needed  for	 thepurpose of executing such a scheme, unless there already hasbeen  a declaration made under s. 7 of the Act.	 Section  7,which  is  another  section, the construction  of  which  isinvolved in this case, is in these terms:-"  In cases of urgency, if in respect of any  notified	areathe State Government is satisfied that the preparation of  adevelopment  scheme  is	 likely to  be	delayed,  the  StateGovernment  may,  at  any time,	 make  a  declaration  undersection	 6,  in respect of such notified area  or  any	partthereof	 though	 no  development  scheme  has  either	beenprepared or sanctioned under section 5."Section	 8 makes the provisions of the Land Acquisition	 Actapplicable to acquisition proceedings taken in pursuance  ofthe declaration made, either under s. 6 or s. 7 of the	Act,subject	 to  certain reservations made in pursuance  of	 theprovisos   to	s.  8,	relating   to	taking	 possession,determination  of the amount of compensation, and of  marketvalue.	 The other sections of the Act are not	relevant  tothe  point in controversy in this case and, therefore,	neednot be adverted to.			    375It  will be noticed that s. 7 is in the nature of a  provisoto s. 6. Section 7 provides that in cases of urgency, if theState  Government  is satisfied that the  preparation  of  adevelopment  scheme is likely to be delayed, it may  make  adeclaration  tinder  s.	 6 that the land was  needed  for  apublic purpose, even though no development scheme has eitherbeen  prepared	or  sanctioned	under  s.  5.  The  section,therefore,  in clear terms, authorises the State  Governmentto  issue the necessary declaration under s. 6,	 which	putsthe  machinery of land acquisition proceedings into  motion,if it is satisfied that the public purpose necessitating theacquisition  of	 the  land in question	would  be  subservedwithout	 the preparation of a development scheme.   The	 Actitself	came  into  existence  in  circumstances  of   greaturgency.  Naturally, therefore, in suitable cases, where thepreparation  of a development scheme would cause delay,	 theGovernment was authorised to proceed with the acquisition ofland  after making the necessary declaration under s. 6.  Asalready	 indicated after that declaration has been  made  byGovernment in the Official Gazette and the necessary enquirymade  about  compensation and the making of the	 award,	 theproperty  becomes vested in tile Government.   The  questionnaturally arises whether there is anything in the Act  whichmakes  it  obligatory on the State Government to  prepare  ascheme	of  development	 thereafter.   The  High  Court	 hasrecognised  the	 need for taking speedy action to  meet	 theemergency  created by the heavy influx of  immigrants.	 TheHigh  Court  has  observed that s. 7  does  not,  in  terms,dispense  with the framing of a development scheme and	thatit  merely says that the Government may issue a	 declarationunder  s.  6,  even though no development  scheme  has	beenframed.	  But the High Court has further observed that	evenafter  taking possession of the property under r. 8,  framedunder the Act, within three days, there is no reason why thenormal	process	 envisaged  in the Act should  not  be	gonethrough.  The argument proceeds further that the Act  itselfcontemplated land planning and development and therefore theframing of a development scheme was an essential part of the376process.   Hence, in the view of the High Court the  framingof  a development scheme was necessary in the normal  coursebefore the declaration under s. 6 is made by the Government,and  in	 the  case  of urgency	under  s.  7,  after  takingpossession of the land in question.  In our opinion, such  aconstruction  of the provisions of the Act is not  warrantedby the terms of the Act.  The addition of the proviso to  s.5,  quoted  above, makes it clear that the  Legislature	 hasrecognised  the	 necessity in special circumstances  of	 notframing	 a  scheme  in	the  case  of  the  public   purposecontemplated in cl. (d)(i) of s. 2, namely, for the  purposeof  settlement	of  immigrants.	 On a fair  reading  of	 therelevant  provisions of the Statute, it becomes	 clear	thatthe  Act contemplated acquisitions of two distinct  classes,namely,	 (1) where the Government bad first  considered	 andsanctioned a development scheme under the provisions of s. 5and then made a declaration that the land in a notified areawas  needed  for  the purpose of  executing  the  particulardevelopment scheme and (2) where the notification under s. 6is  made without any development scheme being  prepared	 andsanctioned under s. 5. Once the declaration is made under s.6,  the	 machinery of the Land Acquisition Act, 1  of  1894,comes into operation, of course subject to the	reservationscontained  in the provios to s. 8, as aforesaid.   The	LandAcquisition Act itself does not contemplate the	 preparationof  any	 such scheme of development.  In other words,  s.  7completely  dispenses with the statutory necessity  of	pre-paring	a scheme of development as envisaged in s. 5 of	 theAct  in	 cases where the Government has taken  the  decisionthat it is necessary to proceed further with the acquisitionproceedings without waiting for the preparation of a scheme.To insist upon the preparation of a development scheme wouldamount to rendering the provisions of s. 7 otiose.  There isno justification for the observation made by the High  Courtthat   the  Legislature	 did  not  intend  that	 the   StateGovernment   should  proceed  with  the	  land	 acquisitionproceedings  under  the	 Act without  framing  a  scheme  ofdevelopment.			    377The High Court has recognised the legal position that it  isopen to the Government to take possession of the land  underacquisition  within  three  days after	the  making  of	 thedeclaration  of urgency under s. 7, but has  insisted  that,even  after taking possession as a measure of  urgency,	 theGovernment  was bound to,, prepare a scheme of	development.If that were so, the question naturally arises: to what	 usethe  land so taken possession of was to be put.	 The  takingof possession in cases of urgency would itself predicate theuse of the land thus taken possession of by the	 Government.But  if the Government were to wait for the preparation	 andsanction  of the scheme before putting the land acquired  toany  use, the very purpose of declaring the urgency and	 thetaking	of  possession	would be  defeated.   It  is  clear,therefore, that the Legislature did not mean to insist	uponthe preparation of a scheme of development in cases of	landacquisition brought within the purview of s. 7 of the Act.That  disposes of the appeal.  But the learned	counsel	 forthe  respondent	 appealed  to the provisions  of  Arts.	 14,19(1)(f)  and  31(2)  of  the Constitution  in	aid  of	 hiscontention   that  s.  7  of  the  Act	was   ultra   vires.Apparently,   there  is	 no  discrimination.	As   alreadyindicated,  there  are two classes of cases into  which	 theland acquisition proceedings envisaged by the Act fall.	 Thetwo classes can be easily identified and the purpose of	 theclassification is based on a rational consideration,  havingdue  regard  to the purpose and policy underlying  the	Act,namely, to acquire land for the public purpose, inter  alia,of  resettling immigrants who had to leave their hearth	 andhome on account of circumstances beyond their control.	Suchcases  of urgency, as come under s. 7, are clearly meant  toserve  the  main  purpose  of  the  Act.   In  our  opinion,therefore,  there  is no substance in  the  contention	thatdiscrimination is implicit in the provisions of s. 7.The  attack on the Act based on Arts. 19(1)(f) and 31(2)  ofthe Constitution is futile in view of the provisions of Art.31B, which is in these terms:-378"  Without  prejudice to the generality	 of  the  provisionscontained  in article 31A, none of the Acts and	 Regulationsspecified  in the Ninth Schedule nor any of  the  provisionsthereof	 shall be deemed to be void, or ever to have  becomevoid,  on the ground that such Act, Regulation or  provisionis  inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of	 therights	conferred  by,	any provisions	of  this  Part,	 andnotwithstanding	 any judgment, decree or order of any  courtor  tribunal  to  the contrary, each of the  said  Acts	 andRegulations  shall,  subject to the power of  any  competentLegislature to repeal or amended it, continue in force."The Act in question is the last entry (serial number 20)  inthe  Ninth  Schedule.	Article	 31B,  quoted  above,  whichrenders	 the  Act  immune  from all  attacks  based  on	 theprovisions  of	Part  III of the  Constitution	relating  tofundamental  rights,  makes it unnecessary to  discuss	withreference to the provisions of the statute that, even if thequestion  were open, the Act does not stiffer from any	suchinfirmity, as is attributed to it.In  view of the considerations set out above, we allow	thisappeal, set aside the judgment under appeal with costs	hereand   in   the	High  Court.   The   respondent's   petitionquestioning the vires of the Act is dismissed.Appeal allowed.		  ____________________			    379