PETITIONER:JAI NARAIN RAM LUNDIA	Vs.RESPONDENT:KEDAR NATH KHETAN AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/01/1956BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANIMAM, SYED JAFFERAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR  359		  1956 SCR   62ACT:Execution-Power of transferee Court-Decree for specific per-formance-Reciprocal conditions indissolubly linked together-Alteration in a material particular, if permissible-Code  ofCivil Procedure (Act V of 1908), ss. 47, 42, or. 32(1).HEADNOTE:An  executing court cannot go behind a decree so as to	varyits terms and when the obligations it imposes on the partiesare reciprocal and inseverable, rendering partial  executionimpossible, the decree must be executed wholly as it  standsor  not at all.	 This is particularly true of a	 decree	 forspecific  performance  where the party who  seeks  executionmust satisfy the executing court that he is in a position toperform the obligations which the decree imposes on him.That  in cases where the identity or substance of  what	 thedecree	directs a party to give to the other is in  dispute,the  executing court alone has the power to decide it  unders. 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure and under s. 42 of	 theCode the powers of the court executing a decree on  transferare  identical	with  those of the court  which	 passed	 thedecree.That although the remedy provided by O. XXI, r. 32(1) of theCode  of  Civil	 Procedure is available in  execution  of  adecree	for specific performance, it can be used only  by  aperson	entitled to execute the decree and if, by reason  ofhis own incapacity to perform his part, he is precluded fromseeking	  execution,   0.  XXI,	 r.  32(1),  can   have	  noapplication.Consequently,  in  a  case where, as  in  the  present,	 thedefendant   sought   to	 execute  a  decree   for   specificperformance of a contract but was himself unable to  performone  of	 the obligations the decree imposed  on	 his  party,namely, to transfer five annas share in a partnership  firm,for  the  reason  that	the firm  had  ceased  to  exist  bydissolution  before  the  date	of  execution,	he  was	 notentitled to execute the decree.Held  further,	that the defendant could not be	 allowed  tosubstitute  five annas share in the assets of the  dissolvedfirm  instead, as that would amount to an alteration of	 thedecree which the execution court was not competent to make.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil AppealNo. 206 of 1955,  63On appeal from the judgment and order dated the 5th May 1954of  the Patna High Court in Appeal from the  Original  OrderNo.  284  of 1951 arising, out of the order dated  the	llthJuly  1951  of the Court of Subordinate Judge,	Motihari  inMisc.  Case No. 30 of 1951.Veda  Vyas, (S.	 K. Kapur and Ganpat Rai, with him) for	 theappellant.   C.K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India  (K.   B.Asthana and C. P. Lal, with him) for respondent NO. 1.  1956.	  January  31.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byBOSE   J.-This	appeal	arises	out  of	 certain   executionproceedings.  The decree which the appellant, Jainarain RainLundia,	 seeks	to  execute  is	 one  that   directsspecificperformance  of	 a  contract to sell  certain  shares  in  aprivate limited company known as the Ganga Devi Sugar Mills,together  with	a  five annas share in	a  partnership	firmcalled	the  Marwari Brothers, on payment of a	sum  of	 Rs.2,45,000.  The facts are as follows.  The partnership firm, known  asthe  Marwari  Brothers, was formed on the 29th	of  February1936.	The  partners  consisted of two	 groups	 called	 theBettia	Group  and the Padrauna Group.	The  Padrauna  Groupconsisted  of  (1) Kedarnath Khetan and (2)  a	firm  calledSurajmal.   These  two	were the  plaintiffs  in  the  suit.Kedarnath was one of the partners of the Surajmal firm.	 TheBettia	Group consisted of (1) Gobardhan Das  (2)  JainarainRam  Lundia  (3) Badri Prasad and (4) Bisheshwar  Nath.	  OnBisheshwar  Nath's  death his son  Madan  Lal  Jhunjhunwallastepped into his shoes.	 These persons were the defendants.  The  Marwari Brothers Firm was formed for the	 purpose  ofpromoting  a company for starting a sugar mill in  Champaranand  for  securing the managing agency of  the	company	 foritself	for a period of ninety years.  This was	 done.	 Thecapital	 of  the company consisted of Rs.  8,00,000  dividedinto 800 shares of64Rs. 1,000 each.	 The shares were distributed as follows.  Inthe Bettia Group Gobardhan Das and his brother Badri  Prasadhad  100  shares; Jainarain had 150 and Madan Lal  had	100.The  Bettia  Group thus had 350 shares	between	 them.	 Theother group (Padrauna) held the remaining 450 shares.  About	 five years later the two sets of partners fell	 outand,  as a result, the Bettia Group agreed, on 1-1-1941,  tosell  a	 certain number of their shares in  the	 Ganga	DeviSugar  Mills  Limited  to the Padrauna Group  along  with  acertain	 share	in  the Marwari Brothers  firm.	  The  exactnumber	of  shares agreed to be sold and the extent  of	 theshare  in the firm was amatter of dispute but that does	 notconcern us at this stage because we are only concerned	withthe final result embodied in the decree now under execution.  The Padratuna Group sued for specific performance and	 thedispute was carried as far as the Federal Court.  That Courtaffirmed the decree of the Calcutta High Court on  6-5-1949.The substance of the decree was this:   1."It is declared that upon payment and or tender tothe defendants-appellants Jainarain Ram Lundia	  and  MadanLal  Jhunjhunwala of the sum of Rs. 2,45,000  with  interestthereon	 by the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs are	entitled  to250  shares  belonging to the said defendants in  the  GangaDevi  Sugar Mills Limited and five annas share belonging  tothem  in  the  Marwari Brothers and  to	 all  dividends	 andprofits in respect thereof with effect from 1-2-1941  2."And  it  is further ordered and decreed  that  againstpayment or tender by. the plaintiffs to the said  defendantsof  the said sum of Rs. 2,45,000 with interest as  aforesaidthe  said  defendants-appel]ants and all proper	 parties  doexecute in favour of the plaintiffs proper deed or deeds  oftransfer  or assignment of the said 250 shares in the  GangaDevi  Sugar Mills Limited and the said five annas  share  inthe Marwari Brothers  This was in slight variation of the first Court's  decree.The exact variation does not matter.  All65that  it is necessary to note is that the  plaintiffs  (thatis,  the Padrauna Group) tendered the money some time  afterthe  first  Court's  decree and	 before	 the  Calcutta	HighCourt's	 decree.   The	tender	was  not  accepted  as	 thedefendants (the Bettia Group) had appealed.  It is  admittedthat  there  was  no second tender after  the  High  Court'sdecree.  After the Federal Court had settled the matter, one of thedefendants,  Jainarain Ram Lundia, applied to  the  CalcuttaHigh Court for execution.  Thedecree	was transferred to the Subordinate Judge,  Motihari,and  the execution proceedings started there  on  25-1-1951.One of the plaintiffs, Kedarnath Khetan, filed an  objectionpetition  on  20-3-1951.   That	 is  the  objection  we	 areconcerned  with.  Among other things, one of the  objectionswas that the defendants were not in a position to  implementthe  conditions	 imposed on them by the decree	because	 theMarwari Brothers firm was dissolved by agreement between theparties before the Federal Court's decree and was no  longerin  existence.	The present appeal turns almost entirely  onthat fact and on the conseq uences that flow from it.  The first Court, that is, the Subordinate Judge's Court atMotihari  to whom the decree bad been transferred,  declinedto  go	into this holding that it had no jurisdiction  as  atransferee Court.  The  plaintiff  Kedarnath appealed to the High  Court	 andsucceeded.   The High Court held that the  transferee  Courthad  jurisdiction,  that  the  Marwari	Brothers  had	beendissolved and that because of that the defendants could	 notexecute the decree. The defendants appealed here.We will first consider the question of fact, namely, whetherthe Marwari Brothers was still in existence as a firm at thedate  of the execution application.  On this point we  agreewith  the  High	 Court that it was not,	 for  the  followingreasons.  The plaintiff Kedarnath asserted in his objection petitionthat  the firm had been dissolved by agreement	between	 theparties "including the plaintiffs and the defendants".	Thisfact was not denied by966the  defendant Jainarain Ram Lundia in his rejoinder  thoughthe fact was specifically alleged to be within his  personalknowledge.   Even  if he did not know whether the  firm	 badbeen  dissolved or not (a fact which cannot be the case	 forreasons	 that  we shall give later) he was  certainly  in  aposition  to admit or deny whether the fact was	 within	 hispersonal knowledge.  His silence can therefore only have onemeaning.  The  defendant's learned counsel contended before us	thatthe  fact had been denied by implication  because  Kedarnathstated	that  his side was, and had always  been,  ready  toperform	 their part of the decree.  Counsel argued  that  asthe  plaintiffs contended that performance was not  possibleafter  the  dissolution of the Marwari	Brothers  firm	thismeant that the firm was still in existence.  We reject	thiscontention  and remark in passing that this is	inconsistentwith  another argument which was also urged in	this  Court,namely	 that  the  fact  of  dissolution  was	no  bar	  toperformance on the defendant's part.  Quite	 apart	from  the language  of	the  rejoinder,	 thedefendant Jainarain said in paragraph 15 of his	 applicationdated  12-7-1954 made to the High Court for leave to  appealhere that  "the said Marwari Brothers was in existence on the date ofthe said conveyance, namely 14th September 1950, and died  anatural	 death	on the conveyance of the  Ganga	 Devi  SugarMills to North Bihar Sugar Mills". This  is a clear admission that the firm was dissolved,  atany rate, on 14-9-1950.	 The plaintiff's contention is	thatit was dissolved much earlier but whether that was so or notwill make no difference to this appeal because 14-9-1950  isalso before the date of the application for execution. The defendant's learned counsel tried to explain this	awayalso.  He said that the defendant did not mean that the firmwas dissolved on that date but that as the only purpose	 forwhich  the firm existed, namely, the managing agency of	 theGanga  Devi Sugar Mills, had gone the firm could  no  longerfunction.67In  order  to understand this, some further  facts  will  benecessary.  While the plaintiff's appeal was being heard  inthe  High Court, the defendants made an application to	thatCourt  on 14-4-1954 asking for permission to adduce  furtherevidence  in the shape of a sale deed dated 14-9-1950.	 Thedefendant  con-, tended that he had only "recently" come  toknow that the Ganga Devi Sugar Mills had sold all its  land,machinery, etc. to the North Bihar Sugar Mills on 14-9-1950.This  terminated  the  managing	 agency,  and  as  the	onlybusiness  of the firm was this managing agency and  as	thatwas  the only purpose for which the firm was formed, it	 wasno  longer  able to function.  But he said  that  this	deedwould  show conclusively that the firm was in  existence  onthat  date.  The High Court refused to accept this  documentbecause	 it  considered	 that  the  only  ground  on   whichadditional  evidence can be admitted in appeal is -when	 theCourt  is  unable  to pronounce	 judgment  on  the  materialalready before it; as that was not the case here it rejectedthe document.  We  need not decide whether there is any conflict of	viewbetween	 the  Privy Council decisions in Kessowji  Issur  v.G.I.P. Rly.(1) and Parsotim v. Lal Mohar(2) on the one	handand  Indrajit  Pratap  Sahi v. Amar Singh(3)  on  the  otherbecause, even if this evidence were to be admitted and	wereto be accepted as true, there would still be the defendant'sadmission in the High Court that the firm stood dissolved atleast  on  14-9-1950.	We  are not  able  to  construe	 thestatement  in  any other way.  The plaintiff says  that	 thedissolution was much earlier and that the firm mentioned  inthe  sale deed now sought to be filed was not the same	firmbut  another  firm  of	the  same  name,  but  even  if	 thedefendant's version be accepted the fact still remains	thateven  according	 to his statement there	 was  a	 dissolutionbefore his application for execution and that therefore	 thedefendants were not in apposition to assign their five annasshare(1)  [1907] L.R. 31 I.A. 115, 122.(2)  [1931] L.R. 58 I.A. 254.(3)  [1928] L.R. 50 I.A. 183, 190, 191.68in  the Marwari Brothers firm.	We now have to consider	 theeffect of that.Much of the argument about this revolved round the  questionwhether	 the equitable rules that obtain before decree in  asuit  for  specific performance con tinue at  the  stage  ofexecution.  It is not necessary for us to go into that	herebecause	 the position in the present case is  much  simpler.When a decree imposes obligations on both sides which are soconditioned  that  performance	by  one	 is  conditional  onperformance  by the other execution will not be ordered	 un-less the party seeking execution not only offers to .performhis  side  but,	 when objection	 is  raised,  satisfies	 theexecuting  Court  that he is in a position to  do  so.	 Anyother  rule would have the effect of varying the  conditionsof  the decree: a thing that an executing Court	 cannot	 do.There may of course be decrees where the obligations imposedon  each side are distinct and severable and in such a	caseeach  party  might well be left to its own  execution.	 Butwhen  the obligations are reciprocal and are interlinked  sothat  they  cannot  be separated,  any	attempt	 to  enforceperformance  unilaterally would be to defeat the  directionsin  the	 decree and to go behind them which, of	 course,  anexecuting  Court cannot do.  The only question therefore  iswhether	 the decree in the present case is of  this  nature.We are clear that it is.  The  relevant part of the decree has already been  quoted.It directs that  "against payment or tender by the plaintiffs.... the	saiddefendants..do	execute in favour of the  plaintiffs  properdeed  or  deeds of transfer of ... five annas share  in	 theMarwari Brothers...... This  is  not	a  case of  two	 independent  and  severabledirections  in the same decree but of one set of  reciprocalconditions indissolubly linked together so that they  cannotexist without each other.  The fact that it is a decree	 forspecific performance where the decree itself cannot be givenunless the side seeking performance is ready and willing  toperform	 his side of the bargain and is in a position to  doso,  only  strengthens	the conclusion	that  that  was	 themeaning69and  intendment of the language used.  But the principle  onwhich  we are founding is not confined to cases of  specificperformance.   It  will	 apply	whenever  a  decree  is	  soconditioned that the right of one party to seek	 performancefrom  the other is conditional on his readiness and  abilityto  perform his own obligations.  The reason is, as we	haveexplained,  that  to hold otherwise would be  to  permit  anexecuting  Court to go behind the decree and vary its  termsby  splitting up what was fashioned as an indivisible  wholeinto  distinct	and  divisible	parts  having  separate	 andseverable  existence without any interrelation between	themjust as if they had been separate decrees inseparate and distinct suits.  Fry on Specific Performance was quoted to us (6th edition,Chapter	 IV,  pages 546 onwards) where	the  learned  authorstates	that  relief can often be  obtained  after  judgmentalong  much  the  same lines as before: thus a	party  to  acontract may, in a proper case, apply for rescission of	 thecontract  and so forth. it was urged by the other side	thateven  if that can be done it can only be done by  the  Courtwhich  passed  the decree and not in execution.	 We  do	 notintend	to examine this because even if these remedies	alsoexist, provided application is made to the proper Court,  itdoes  not affect the basic principle in execution  that	 theexecuting Court must take the decree as it stands and cannotgo behind it.  If the decree says that on payment being madesome definite and specific thing is to be given to the otherside,  the  executing  Court cannot  alter  that  and  allowsomething else to be substituted for the thing ordered to begiven.	The  learned  counsel  for  the	 defendant-appellantcontended  that even if the Marwari Brothers had  ceased  toexist  as a firm the plaintiff was still entitled to a	fiveannas share in its assets on dissolution.  But a five  annasshare in the assets of a dissolved firm which has ceased  toexist is a very different thing from a five annas share in agoing  partnership concern; and to permit this	substitutionin  the	 decree	 would be to alter it  in  a  very  materialparticular.  The defendant may or may not have the70right to ask the Court which passed the decree to vary it inthat  way but he can certainly not, ask the executing  Courtto  do so.  The decree must either be executed as it  standsin one of the ways allowed by law or not at all.  In  the High Court, and also before us, much was  made  ofthe  fact that the plaintiff had not re-tendered  the  moneyafter  the  decree was varied by the High Court and  it	 wasargued	 that  that  precluded	him  from   contesting	 thedefendant's  right to attach his property under	 Order	XXI,rule  32(1),  of  the  Civil  Procedure	 Code.	 The  remedyprovided in Order XXI, rule 32(1), is, of course, one of theremedies  available  in execution of a decree  for  specificperformance  but  it  can only be used by a  person  who  isentitled to execute the decree, and if, by reason of his ownincapacity to perform his part, he is precluded from seekingexecution, Order XXI, rule 32 (1), cannot apply.  The  only question that remains is whether  the  executingCourt can consider whether the defendant is in a position toperform	 his part of the decree.  But of course it can.	  Ifthe  executing Court cannot consider this question who	can?The executing Court has to see that the defendant gives	 theplaintiff  the	very thing that the decree directs  and	 notsomething  else,  so  if  there is  any	 dispute  about	 itsidentity  or  substance nobody but the Court  executing	 thedecree can determine it.  It is a matter distinctly relatingto  the execution, discharge and satisfaction of the  decreeand so, under section 47 of the Civil Procedure Code, it canonly  be determined by the Court executing the decree.	 Andas for the first Court's conclusion that it could not decidethese  matters because it was not the Court that passed	 thedecree,	 it  is enough to say, as the High Court  did,	thatsection 42 of the Code expressly gives the Court executing adecree	sent to it the same powers in executing such  decreeas if it bad been passed by itself.  The  next  point urged by the appellant was  that  as	 theplaintiff  did	not raise the present objection	 before	 theFederal -Court when it passed its decree he71is precluded from doing so now.	 It is true this would	havebeen  a	 good  ground for resisting a  decree  for  specificperformance but is no answer to the objection to  execution.The defendant undertook to perform his part when the  decreewas passed and he must make good that undertaking before  hecan  seek  execution  because the decree,  in  view  of	 itslanguage and intendment, must either be executed as a  wholeor not at all; it cannot be split up into different and	 un-correlated  parts and be executed unilaterally.	 It  may  beobserved  in  passing that it was as much the  duty  of	 thedefendant to seek modification of the contract by the  Courtwhich passed the decree, or modification of the terms of thedecree later if he did not know these facts at the time,  ashe says, it was of the plaintiff.  The fact remains that thedecree	was  passed  in these terms and it  must  either  beexecuted  as it stands or not at all unless the Court  whichpassed it alters or modifies it.  Then it was argued that this objection to execution shouldhave been taken by the plaintiff in the Calcutta High  Courtwhen  the  defendant  asked for transfer of  the  decree  toMotihari  and that as that was not done it is too late	now.But  here  also the answer is the same.	 The  only  questionbefore the Calcutta High Court on the application made to itwas  whether  the  decree  should  be  transferred  or	not.Whether	 the  plaintiff	 might	or  could  have	 taken	 theobjection  in the High Court is beside the point because  itis  evident that he need not have done so on the only  issuewhich  the application for transfer raised, namely,  whetherthe  decree should be transferred or not; at best  it  couldonly be said that the plaintiff had a choice of two  forums.If  the	 appellant's  contention is pushed  to	its  logicalconclusion   it	 would	mean  that  whenever  a	 decree	  istransferred all objection to execution must cease unless theorder	of  the	 Court	directing  the	transfer   expresslyenumerates  the	 issues that the transferring  Court  is  atliberty	 to  determine.	 In our opinion section	 42  of	 theCivil	Procedure  Code	 is  a	complete  answer   to	thiscontention. The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.72