PETITIONER:DIAMOND SUGAR MILLS LTD., ANDANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH ANDANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:13/12/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASIMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.DAYAL, RAGHUBARAYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  652		  1961 SCR  (3) 242 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1966 SC 416	 (3,5,11) RF	    1967 SC1801	 (18) C	    1968 SC 599	 (13) D	    1969 SC 903	 (23) RF	    1972 SC  87	 (5) RF	    1972 SC 425	 (27) D	    1976 SC 182	 (24) R	    1979 SC 537	 (5) F	    1979 SC1972	 (4,5) E	    1980 SC 286	 (18) RF	    1981 SC 991	 (11) RF	    1989 SC 516	 (22)ACT:Sugar Cane-Imposition of cess-Enactment taxing entry of caneinto factory--Constitutionality of-"Local area", Connotationof-Constitution	 of India, Sch.	 VII, List II,	Entry  52-U.P. Sugarcane Cess Act, 1956 (U.	 P. XXII of 1956), s. 3.HEADNOTE:Entry  52 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the  Consti-tution	empowered State Legislatures to make a law  relatingto  "taxes  on	the entry of goods into	 a  local  area	 forconsumption,  use or sale therein".  The U.  P.	 Legislaturepassed the U. P. Sugarcane Cess Act, 1956, which  authorisedthe  State Government to impose a cess on the entry of	caneinto the premises of a factory for use, consumption or	saletherein.   The	appellant contended that the premises  of  afactory	 was not a 'local area' within the meaning of  Entry52 and the Act was beyond the competence of the legislature.243Held,  (per Imam, Kapur, Das Gupta and Raghubar Dayal,	jj.)that  the  impugned  Act was beyond the	 competence  of	 thelegislature and was invalid.  The premises of a factory	 wasnot  a	"local area" within the meaning of  Entry  52.	 Theproper	meaning to be attached to the words "local area"  inEntry  52  was an area administered by a local body  like  amunicipality,  a  district  board, a local  board,  a  unionboard, a Panchayat or the like.In  re: the Central Provinces & Beray Act No. XIV  of  1938,[1939] F.C.R. 18, Navinchandra Mafatlal v. The	Commissionerof  Income-tax, Bombay City, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 829,  State  ofMadras	v. Gannon Dunkerley & Co., Ltd., [1959]	 S.C.R.	 379and  South Carolina v. United States, (1905) 19 U.  S.	437,referred to.Emperor v. Munnalal, I.L.R. 1942 All. 302, disapproved.Per  Ayyangar, J.-The Act was invalid only in so far  as  itsought to levy a tax on cane entering a factory from  withinthe same local area in which the factory was situate and wasvalid in other cases.  It was permissible to read the Act soas to confine the tax to the limitations subject to which itcould  be  constitutionally levied and to strike  down	thatportion which out stepped the limitations.In  re	Hindu Women's Rights to Property Act,  1937,  [1941]F.C.R. 12 and Blackwood v. Queen, (1882) 8 A.C. 82, applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 35 of 1959.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated October 29,  1956,of  the	 Allahabad High Court in Writ Petition	No.  327  of1956.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India, J. B.Dadachanji, S. N. Andley, Rameshwar Nath and P.	  L.  Vohra,for the appellants.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondents.1960,  December 13.  The Judgment of Imam, Kapur, Das  Guptaand  Dayal, JJ. was delivered by Das Gupta, J. Ayyangar,  J.delivered a separate judgment.DAS  GUPTA, J.-This appeal is against an order of  the	HighCourt  of Judicature at Allahabad rejecting the	 appellants'application  under Art. 226 of the Constitution.  The  firstappellant is the Diamond Sugar Mills Ltd., a public  limitedcompany owning and operating a sugar factory at Pipraich  inthe District Gorakhpur, for the manufacture of sugar from244sugarcane.   The  second appellant is the  Director  of	 thecompany.  By this application the appellants challenged	 theimposition  of	cess on the entry of  sugarcane	 into  theirfactory.   On  February 24, 1956, when the  application	 wasmade the U. P. Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase)Act,  1953 (U.	P. XXIV of 1953), was in force.	 Section  20of  this  Act  gave to the Governor of U. P.  the  power  toimpose	by  notification "a cess not exceeding 4  annas	 permaund  on the entry of sugarcane into an area  specified  insuch  notification  for consumption, use or  sale  therein".This  Act  it  may be mentioned had taken the  place  of  anearlier Act, the U. P. Sugar Factories Control Act, 1938, s.29 of which authorised the Governor of U. P. to impose by  anotification after consultation with the Sugar Control Boardunder  the  Act	 "a cess not exceeding 10 per  cent  of	 theminimum	 price,	 if any, fixed under s. 21 or  4  annas	 permaund whichever was higher on the entry of sugarcane into  alocal  area specified in such notification for	consumption,use or sale therein".  Notifications were issued under	thisprovision for different crushing seasons starting from 1938-39,  the last notification issued thereunder being  for	 thecrushing  season of 1952-53.  These notifications set out  anumber	of factories in a schedule and provided that  during1952-53	 crushing season cess at a rate of three  annas	 permaund shall be levied on the entry of all sugarcane into thelocal areas comprised in factories mentioned in the schedulefor consumption, use or sale therein.  Act No. XXIV of	1953repealed  the  1938 Act.  The first notification  under	 theprovisions of s. 20 of the 1953 Act was in these terms:-	      "In  exercise of the powers conferred by	sub-	      section  (1)  of section 20 of  Uttar  Pradesh	      Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and  Purchase)	      Act,  1953; (U. P. Act No. XXIV of  1953)	 the	      Governor is pleased to declare that during the	      1954-55  crushing season, a cess at a rate  of	      three  annas per maund shall be levied on	 the	      entry  of all sugar cane into the local  areas	      comprised	 in the factories mentioned  in	 the	      Schedule,	 for  the consumption, use  or	sale	      therein".245Similar notifications were also issued on October 23,  1954,for the crushing season 1954-55 and on November 9, 1955, forthe  crushing season 1955-56.  The appellants'	factory	 wasone of the factories mentioned in the schedule of all  thesenotifications.	 On  the  date	of  the	 application,  i.e.,February  24, 1956, a sum. of Rs. 2,59,644-9-0 was due	fromthe first appellant and a further sum of Rs. 2,41,416-3-0 asliability on account of cess up to the end of January, 1956,also remained unpaid.The appellant contended on various grounds that s. 20 of ActXXIV of 1953 was unconstitutional and invalid and prayed forthe issue of appropriate writs directing the respondents theState  of U. P. and the Collector of Gorakhpur not  to	levyand  collect cess on account of the arrears of cess for	 thecrushing  season  1954-55  and in respect  of  the  crushingseason	1955-56	 and  successive  crushing  seasons  and  towithdraw  the  notifications  dated October  23,  1954,	 andNovember 9, 1955 , which have been mentioned above.During	the  pendency  of this application  under  Art.	 226before	the  Allahabad	High Court  the	 U.  P.	 Legislatureenacted	 the U. P. Sugarcane Cess Act, 1956 (U. P.  XXII  of1956),	repealing  the 1953 Act.  Section 3 of this  Act  asoriginally enacted was in these words:-	      "The  State Government may by notification  in	      the   official  gazette  impose  a  cess	 not	      exceeding four annas per maund on the entry of	      the  cane into the premises of a	factory	 for	      use, consumption or sale therein:	      Provided	that the State Government may  like.	      wise  remit in whole or in part such  cess  in	      respect of cane used or to be used in  factory	      for any limited purpose specified	 in the	      notification.	      Explanation:-If  the State Government, in	 the	      case  of	any factory  situate  outside  Uttar	      Pradesh,	so  declare,  any  place  in   Uttar	      Pradesh  set apart for the purchase  'of	cane	      intended	or required for use. consumption  or	      sale in such factory shall be deemed to be the	      premises of the factory.	      (2)   The	 cess imposed under sub-section	 (1)	      shall	      246	      be  payable  by the owner of the	factory	 and	      shall  be paid on such date and at such  place	      as may be prescribed.	      (3)   Any arrear of cess not paid on the	date	      prescribed  under sub-section (2) shall  carry	      interest	at 6 per cent. per annum  from	such	      date to date of payment."There  is a later amendment by which the words "four  annas"have been altered to "twenty-five naye paise" and the  words"Gur,  Rab or Khandsari Sugar Manufacturing Unit" have	beenadded  after the words "factory" in sub-section (1).   Theseamendments are however not relevant for the purpose of	thisappeal.Section	 9  of	this Act repealed s. 20 of  the	 Sugar	Cane(Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act, 1953.	Sub-sections2 and 3 of s. 9 are important.	They are in these words:-	      "2.   Without   prejudice	  to   the   general	      application of section 24 of the U.P.  General	      Clauses Act, 1904, every notification imposing	      cess   issued   and  every   assessment	made	      (including the amount of cess collected) under	      or  in  pursuance of  any	 such  notification,	      shall be deemed a notification issued, assess-	      ment made and cess collected under this Act as	      if sections 2, 3 and 5 to 8 had been in  force	      at all material dates.	      3.    Subject  as	 provided in clause  (1)  of	      Article	20   of	  the	Constitution   every	      notification  issued cess imposed and  act  or	      thing   done  or	omitted	 between  the	26th	      January,	1950,  and  the	 Appointed  date  in	      exercise or the purported exercise of a  power	      under section 29 of the U. P. Sugar  Factories	      Control  Act, 1938, or of s. 20 of the  U.  P.	      Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and  Purchase)	      Act,  1953, which would have been validly	 and	      properly	issued, imposed, done or omitted  if	      the  said	 sections had been as section  3  of	      this Act, shall in law be deemed to be and  to	      have  been  validly and properly	imposed	 and	      done,  any judgment, decree or order,  of	 any	      court notwithstanding."The position after the enactment of the U. P.247Sugarcane  Cess	 Act,  1956, was  that	the  imposition	 andassessment of cess that had already been made under the 1953Act would operate as if made under the 1956 Act.  In view ofthis  the  first appellant, the Diamond	 Sugar	Mills  Ltd.,prayed	to  the	 High  Court for  permission  to  raise	 thequestion of constitutionality and validity of the 1956	Act.It  also  prayed for the issue of a writ in  the  nature  ofmandamus directing the respondents not to levy cess upon thepetitioners-appellants	under  this  new  Act,	the  U.	  P.Sugarcane Cess Act, 1956.This  application was allowed and the High Court  consideredthe  question whether s. 3 of the U. P. Sugarcane Cess	Act,1956, 'empowering the State Government to impose a cess	 notexceeding four annas per maund on the entry of the cane intothe  premises of a factory for the consumption, use or	saletherein was a valid law.The  principal	ground urged in support of  the	 appellants'case  was  that the law as enacted in s. 3 was	invalid	 andthat  it was beyond the legislative competence of the  StateLegislature.   Several other grounds including one that	 theprovisions of the section went beyond the permissible limitsof delegated legislation were also raised.  All the  groundswere negatived by the High Court which accordingly  rejectedthe  appellants'  petition.  The High Court however  gave  acertificate  under  Article  132(1)  and  also	under	Art.133(1)(c)  of  the  Constitution and on the  basis  of	thatcertificate the present appeal has been filed.Of the several grounds urged before the High Court only	 twoare  urged  before us in appeal.  One is that  the  law	 wasinvalid,  being	 beyond the legislative	 competence  of	 theState  legislature;  the  other	 is that  in  any  case	 theprovision  giving  the Governor power to levy any  cess	 notexceeding  4 annas without providing for any guidance as  tothe  fixation of the particular rate, amounted to  excessivedelegation, and was accordingly invalid.  The answer to	 thequestion  whether the impugned law was within or beyond	 thelegislative  competence of the State legislature depends  onwhether the law falls under Entry 52 of the State List-248List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.  It  isquite clear that there is no other entry in either the StateList  or  the Concurrent List under  which  the	 legislationcould  have been made.	Entry 52 is in these words:-"Tax  onthe entry of goods into a local area for consumption, use orsale  therein".	  Section 3 of the impugned  Act  which	 hasalready	 been set out provides for imposition of a  cess  onthe  entry of sugarcane into the premises of a	factory	 foruse,  consumption  or sale therein.  Is the "premises  of  afactory"  a local area within the meaning of the words	usedin  Entry 52?  If it is the legislation was  clearly  withinthe  competence of the State legislature; if it is not,	 thelaw  was beyond the State legislature's competence and	mustbe struck down as invalid.In  considering	 the meaning of the words  "local  area"  inentry  52  we  have, on the one hand to	 bear  in  mind	 thesalutary rule that words conferring the right of legislationshould	be  interpreted liberally and the  powers  conferredshould	be given the widest amplitude; on the other hand  wehave to guard ourselves against extending the meaning of thewords beyond their reasonable connotation, in. an anxiety topreserve  the power of the legislature.	 In Re	the  CentralProvinces  &  Berar  Act No. XI V of 1938  (1)	Sir  MauriceGwyer, C. J., observed:-	      "I  conceive that a broad and  liberal  spirit	      should  inspire  those  whose duty  it  is  to	      interpret it; but I do not imply by this	that	      they  are	 free  to  stretch  or	pervert	 the	      language of the enactment in the interests  of	      any  legal or constitutional theory,  or	even	      for  the	purpose of correcting  any  supposed	      errors".	      Again,   in  Navinchandra	 Mafatlal   v.	 The	      Commissioner  of Income Tax, Bombay  City	 (2)	      Das,  J.	(as  he	 then  was)  delivering	 the	      judgment of this Court observed:-	      "...........    The    cardinal	 rule	  of	      interpretation  however, is that words  should	      be   read	 in  their  ordinary,  natural	 and	      grammatical meaning subject to this rider that	      in   construing  words  in  a   constitutional	      enactment	 conferring  legislative  power	 the	      most(1) [1939] F.C.R. 18, 37.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 829.249			 liberal construction should be	 put	      upon  the words	  so that the same may	have	      effect in their widest amplitude."Our task being to ascertain the limits of the powers grantedby the Constitution, we cannot extend these limits by way ofinterpretation.	   But	if  there  is  any   difficulty	  inascertaining the limits, the difficulty must be resolved  sofar  as	 possible in favour of the  legislative	 body.	 Thepresumption   in  favour  of  constitutionality	 which	 wasstressed by the learned counsel for the respondents does nottake us beyond this.On behalf of the appellants it has been urged that the	word"local	area" in its ordinary grammatical meaning  is  neverused  in respect of a single house or a single factory or  asingle	plot of land.  It is urged that in ordinary use	 thewords "local area" always mean an area covering a  specifiedregion	of  the country as distinguished  from	the  generalarea.	While it may not be possible to say that  the  words"local	area" have acquired a definite and  precise  meaningand the phrase may have different connotations in  differentcontexts,  it  seems correct to say that it  is	 seldom,  ifever,  used  to denote a single house or a  single  factory.The  phrase appears in several statutes, some passed by	 theCentral	 Legislature  and some by the  Provincial  or  StateLegislatures;  but  in	many of these the  words  have	beendefined.   These definitions being for the peculiar  purposeof   the  particular  statute  cannot  be  applied  to	 theinterpretation	of  the words "local area" as  used  in	 theConstitution.	Nor  can we derive any assistance  from	 thejudicial interpretation of the words "local area" as used inthe  Code  of Criminal Procedure or other Acts	like  BengalTenancy	  Act  as  these  interpretations  were	 made	withreference  to  the  scope of the legislation  in  which	 thephrase	 occurs.   Researches  into  dictionaries  and	 lawlexicons  are  also of 'no avail as none of these  give	 themeaning	 of  the  phrase "local area".	 What  they  say  asregards	 the meaning of the word "local" offers no  guidanceexcept that it is clear that the word "local" has  differentmeanings in different contexts.32250The  etymological meaning of the word "local"  is  "relatingto"  or "pertaining to" a place.  It may be  first  observedthat  whether or not the whole of the State can be a  "localarea", for the purpose of Entry 52, it is clear that to be a"local	area"  for this purpose must be an area	 within	 theState.	 On  behalf  of the respondents it  is	argued	that"local	area" in Entry 52 should therefore be taken to	mean"any  part  of the State in any place  therein".   So, theargument runs, a single factory being a part of the State ina  place  in the State is a "local area".  In  other  words,"local	area"  mean "any specified area inside	the  State".The  obvious  fallacy of this argument is that it  draws  nodistinction  between the word "area" standing by itself	 andthe  phrase "local area".  If the Entry had been " entry  ofgoods  into  any area of the State..............  some	areawould  be specified for the purpose of the law	levying	 thecess  on  entry.  If the Constitutions were  empowering	 theState Legislatures to levy a cess on entry of goods into anyspecified  area	 inside the state the proper  words  to	 usewould have been "entry of goods into any area..............."  it would be meaningless and indeed incorrect to  use	 thewords they did use "entry of goods into a local area".	 Theuse  of	 the words "local area" instead of the	word  "area"cannot	but  be due to the intention  of  the  Constitution-makers to make sure that the power to make laws relating  tolevy on entry of goods would not extend to cases of entry ofgoods into any and every part of the state from outside thatpart  but only to entry from outside into such	portions  ofthe  state  as satisfied the description  of  "local  area".Something definite was sought to be expressed by the use  ofthe  word "local" before the word "area": The  question	 is:what exactly was sought to be expressed?In  finding  an answer to the question it is  legitimate  toturn  to the previous history of constitutional	 legislationin   the  country  on  this  subject  of  giving  power	  tolegislature to levy tax on the entry of goods.	In the Stateof Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley & Co., Ltd.(1)(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 379.251this Court referred with approval to the statement of law inHalsbury's Laws of England, Vol.  II, para. 157, p. 93, thatthe  existing state of English law in 1867 is  relevant	 forconsideration  in determining the meaning of the terms	usedin the British North America Act in conferring power and theextent	of that power.	This has necessarily to be so as  inthe words of Mr. Justice Brewer in South Carolina v.  UnitedStates (1) "to determine the extent of the grants of  power,we  must, therefore place ourselves in the position  of	 themen  who  framed and adopted the Constitution,	and  inquirewhat  they must have understood to be the meaning and  scopeof those grants."Turning now to the previous legislative history we find thatin  the	 Government  of India Act, 1935,  Entry	 49  of	 theLegislative  List (List II of the 7th Schedule) was  in	 thesame  words  as	 Entry 52 of the  Constitution	except	thatinstead	 of the words "taxes" as in Entry 52 of List  II  ofthe  Constitution,  Entry 49 List II of	 the  Government  ofIndia  Act,  used the word "cess".  In Government  of  IndiaAct,  1915, the powers of the provincial  legislatures	weredefined	 in  s. 80A.  'Under clause (a) of  the	 third	sub-section	 of  this  section  the	 local	legislature  of	 anyprovince  has  with the previous sanction of  the  Governor-General	 power	to make or take into consideration  any	 lawimposing or authorising the imposition of any new tax unlessthe tax was a tax scheduled as exempted from this  provisionby rules made under the Act.The  third of the Rules that were made in this matter  underNotification  No.  311/8 dated December 18,  1920,  providedthat  the legislative council of a province may without	 theprevious sanction of the Governor-General make and take intoconsideration  any  law	 imposing  or  authorising  a  localauthority to impose for the purpose of such local  authorityany  tax included in Schedule II of the Rules.	Schedule  IIcontained  11  items of which items 7 and 8  were  in  thesewords:-7. An octroi8.   A terminal tax on goods imported into a local(1) [1905] 199 U.S. 437.252area  in which an octroi was levied on or before  6th  July,1917.Item  8	 was slightly modified in the year 1924	 by  anothernotification  as  a  result of which it	 stood	thus:  8.  Aterminal tax on goods imported into or exported from a localarea save where such tax is first imposed in a local area inwhich  an  octroi  was levied on or  before  July  6,  1917.Octroi is an old and well known term describing a tax on theentry  of goods into a town or a city or a similar area	 forconsumption,   sale  or	 use  therein.	 According  to	 theEncyclopedia Britannica octroi is an indirect or consumptiontax  levied by a local political unit, normally the  communeor  municipal authority, on certain categories of  goods  ontheir  entry  into its area.   The  Encyclopedia  Britannicadescribes  the	octroi tax system in  France  (abolished  in1949) and states that commodities were prescribed by law andwere  divided  into  six classes and for  all  the  separatecommodities within these six groups maximum rates of  tariffwere  promulgated  by presidential  decree,  specific  ratesbeing  fixed  for the three separate sorts of  octroi  area,established  on	 the basis of population,  namely,  communeshaving (1) less than 10,000 inhabitants, (2) from 10,000  to50,000 and (3) more than 50,000.  While we are not concernedhere  with  other features of the octroi tax system,  it  isimportant to note that the tax was with regard to the  entryof  goods  into the areas of the communes which	 were  localpolitical  units.  According to the Shorter  Oxford  EnglishDictionary  "commune"  in  France  is  a  small	 territorialdivision  governed by a maire and municipal council  and  isused to denote any similar division elsewhere.The characteristic feature of an octroi tax then was that itwas  on	 the entry of goods into an area administered  by  alocal  body.  Bearing in mind this characteristic of  octroiduty  we  find	on an examination of items 7 and  8  of	 theSchedule Rules mentioned above that under the Government  ofIndia  Act, 1919, the local legislature of a Province  couldwithout the previous sanction of the Governor-General imposea253tax-octroi--for entry of goods into an area administered  bya local body, that is, a local government authority and	 thearea  in  respect  of which such tax could  be	imposed	 wasmentioned in item 8 as local area.It  is	in the background of this history that	we  have  toexamine the use of the word "local area" in item 49 of	ListII  of	the Government of India Act, 1935.   Here  the	word"octroi" has given place to the longer phrase "cesses on theentry  of  goods into a local area for consumption,  use  orsale therein."It  was	 with the knowledge of the previous history  of	 thelegislation  that  the Constitution-makers set	about  theirtask in preparing the lists in the seventh schedule.   Therecan bring title doubt therefore that in using the words "taxon the entry of goods into a local area for consumption, useor sale therein", they wanted to express by the words "localarea"  primarily  area	in respect of which  an	 octroi	 wasleviable  under item 7 of the schedule tax rules,  1920-thatis,  the  area administered by a local authority such  as  amunicipality,  a  district Board, a local Board or  a  UnionBoard,	a Panchayat or some body constituted under  the	 lawfor  the governance of the local affairs of any part of	 theState.	 Whether  the entire area of the State, as  an	areaadministered  by the State Government, was also intended  tobe included in the phrase "local area", we need not considerin the present case.The  only  other  part of the Constitution  where  the	word"local	area"  appears is in Art. 277.	That Article  is  inthese words:-	      "Any  taxes,  duties, cesses  or	fees  which,	      immediately  before the commencement  of	this	      Constitution,  were being lawfully  levied  by	      the   Government	of  any	 State	or  by	 any	      municipality or other local authority or	body	      for  the purposes of the State,  municipality,	      district,	   or	other	local	area	may,	      notwithstanding  that  these  taxes,   duties,	      cesses  or  fees are mentioned  in  the  Union	      List, continue to be levied and to be applied	      to  the same purposes until provision  to	 the	      contrary is made by Parliament by law."254There can be little doubt that "local area" in this  Articlehas been used to indicate an area in respect of which  thereis an authority administering it.While  the scope of Article 277 is different from the  scopeof entry 52 so that no direct assistance can be obtained  inthe  interpretation  of the words "local area" in  entry  52from   this  meaning  of  the  words  in  Art.	277  it	  issatisfactory  to  find that the meaning of "local  area"  inentry 52 which appears reasonable on a consideration of	 thelegislative  history  of the matter is also  appropriate  tothis phrase in its only other use in the Constitution.Reliance  was  sought to be placed by the respondents  on  adecision of the Allahabad High Court in Emperor v.  Munnalal(1)  where the word "local area" as used in s. 29 of the  U.P. Sugar Factories Control Act, 1938, fell to be considered.That  section, as we have already mentioned, authorised	 theGovernor  of  U.  P.  to impose	 by  a	notification,  afterconsulting the Sugar Control Board under the Act, a cess  onthe  entry of sugarcane into a local area specified in	suchnotification  for  consumption, use or	sale  therein.	 Thenotifications which were issued under this provision set outa number of factories for the levy of a cess at the rate  ofthree  annas  per maund on entry of all sugarcane  into	 thelocal  area  comprised	in the factories  mentioned  in	 theschedule  for consumption, use or sale therein.	 Section  29was  clearly within the words of entry 49 of List  11.	 Thequestion  that	arose  before  the  Court  was	whether	 thespecification of certain factories as local areas was  validlaw.   The  learned Judge appears to have proceeded  on	 thebasis  that the Governor had notified the area comprised  in74 factories as one "local area" and held that once this was'done the entire area covered by all these factories  shouldbe considered as one statutory local area.  It appears to usthat  the learned Judge was not right in thinking  that	 thearea  comprised	 in 74 factories was notified as  one  localarea.	What appears to have been done was that the area  ofeach  factory  was being notified as a local  area  for	 thepurpose of the Act.  Proceeding on(1)  I.L.R. 1942 All. 302.255the  basis that the area comprised in the 74  factories	 wasnotified  as  one  local area the  learned  Judge  addressedhimself to the question whether this entire area was a localarea  within  the meaning of the Act.  He  appears  to	haveaccepted the contention that the word local area was used inthe  sense  of	an administrative unit, but,  says  he,	 theadministration	need not be political, it may be  industrialand   educational  or  it  may	take  any  other   form	  ofgovernmental  activity.	 "I cannot see," the  learned  Judgeobserved,  "why it is not open to the provincial  governmentor  the provincial legislature to make an industrial  surveyof  the province and to divide up the entire  province	intoindustrial  areas or factory areas or mill areas or  in	 anyother  kind  of areas, and each one of these  areas  may  benotified  and  be treated as a local area.   And  once	suchareas  come into existence and remain in operation they	 canbe  regarded as local areas within the meaning of entry	 No.49 of List II in which a cess may be levied".Even if this view were correct it would be of no  assistanceto the respondents.  It is no authority for the	 propositionthat  the area of one single factory is a local area  withinthe  meaning  of entry 49.  We think however that  the	viewtaken by the learned Judge is not correct.It   is	 true  that  when  words  and	phrases	  previouslyinterpreted  by the courts are used by the Legislature in  alater  enactment replacing the previous statute, there is  apresumption that the Legislature intended to convey by theiruse  the same meaning which the courts had already given  tothem.	This presumption can however only be used as an	 aidto the interpretation of the later Statute and should not beconsidered  to	be conclusive.	As Mr.	Justice	 Frankfurterobserved in Federal  Commissioner v.  Columbia B. System (1)when  considering  this doctrine, the persuasion  that	liesbehind the doctrine is merely one factor in the total effortto  give fair meaning to language.  The presumption will  bestrong where the words of the previous statute have receiveda settled meaning by a(1) 311 U.S. 131.256series of decisions in the different courts of the  country;and  particularly strong when such interpretation  has	beenmade or affirmed by the highest court in the land.  We thinkit  reasonable	to  say however that  the  presumption	willnaturally  be much weaker when the interpretation was  givenin  one solitary case and was not tested in  appeal.   Aftergiving	careful	 consideration'	 to the view  taken  by	 thelearned	 Judge	of the Allahabad High Court  in	 Emperor  v.Munnalal (supra) about the meaning of the words "local area"and  proper weight to the rule of  interpretation  mentionedabove,	we are of opinion that the  Constitution-makers	 didnot  use  the words "local area" in the	 meaning  which	 thelearned	 Judge attached to it.	We are of opinion  that	 theproper	meaning to be attached to the words "local area"  inEntry  52 of the Constitution, (when the area is a  part  ofthe  State  imposing the law) is an area administered  by  alocal  body like a municipality, a district board,  a  localboard, a union board, a Panchayat or the like.	The premisesof a factory is therefore not a "local area".It  must therefore be held that s. 3 of the U. P.  SugarcaneCess Act, 1956, empowering the Governor to impose a cess  onthe  entry of sugarcane into the premises of a	factory	 didnot fall within Entry 52 of the State List.  As there is  noother Entry in either State List or Concurrent List in whichthe  impugned  law could fall there is no  escape  from	 theconclusion   that  this	 law  was  beyond  the	 legislativecompetence of the State Legislature.  The law as enacted  ins.  3 of the U. P. Sugarcane Cess Act, 1956, must  thereforebe struck down as invalid.It may be mentioned that this is not a case where the law isin two parts and one part can be severed from the other	 andsaved  as valid while striking down the other portion  whichis  invalid.   Indeed, that was not even  suggested  by	 thelearned counsel for the respondents.  It is unnecessary	 forus  to consider whether if s. 3 had instead  of	 authorisinglevy  of cess for entry of sugarcane into the premises of  afactory for use, consumption or sale therein had  authorisedthe imposition of a cess on entry of cane into a local	areafor257consumption,  sale or use in a factory that would have	beenwithin Entry 52.  It is sufficient to say that we cannot re-write  the  law for the purpose of saving a portion  of	 it.Nor  is it for the Court to offer any suggestion as  to	 howthe  law  should be drafted in order to keep it	 within	 thelimits of legislative competence.  As the law enacted by theLegislature  stands there is no escape from  the  conclusionthat this entire law must be struck down as invalid.In  view  of this conclusion on the first ground  raised  onbehalf	of the appellant it is unnecessary to  consider	 theother  ground raised in the appeal that section 3  has	gonebeyond the permissible limits of delegated legislation.As we have held that the impugned legislation was beyond thelegislative   competence  of  the  State   Legislature	 theappellants  are	 entitled  to  the  relief  asked  for.	  Weaccordingly allow the appeal, set aside the order passed  bythe High Court and order the issue of a writ directing thatthe respondents do forbear from levying and collecting	cessfrom  the appellants on account of arrears of cess  for	 thecrushing  season  1954-55  and in respect  of  the  crushingseason 1955-56 and successive crushing seasons under the  U.P. Sugarcane Cess Act, 1956.The appellants will get their costs here and below.AYYANGAR,  J.-I	 have  had the	privilege  of  perusing	 thejudgment  just now pronounced, but with the  utmost  respectregret my inability to agree with the order proposed.The learned Judges of the High Court held that the  impugnedenactment  was	within the scope of Entry 52  of  the  StateLegislative  List  in  Schedule 7 to  the  Constitution,  byplacing reliance on the following passage in the Judgment ofDas, J. in Emperor v. Munna Lal (1) where the learned  Judgesaid:	      "Indeed  I  cannot see why it is not  open  to	      Provincial     Government	   or	  Provincial	      Legislature  to make an industrial  survey  of	      the  Province  and  to divide  up	 the  entire	      province into industrial areas(1)  I.L.R. [1942] All. 302, 328.33258	      or factory areas or mill areas or in any other	      kind of areas, and each one of these areas may	      be  notified and be treated as a	local  area.	      And  once such areas come into  existence	 and	      remain  in operation they can be	regarded  as	      local areas within the meaning of Entry No. 45	      of List II in which a cess may be levied."In  other words, the view which they favoured was to  readthe expression "local area". practically to mean any  "area"entry  into which was by the relevant fiscal  statute,	madethe  subject  of  taxation.  In my opinion  that  is  not  acorrect	 interpretation	 of  the entry and   agree  with  mylearned	 brethren  that	 having	 regard	 to  the  historicalmaterial, which has been exhaustively set out and  discussedin  their judgment, the word "local area" can in  the  entrydesignate only a predetermined local unit--a unit demarcatedby  statutes pertaining to local self government and  placedunder  the control and administration of a  local  authoritysuch as a municipality, a cantonment, a district or a  localboard,	an  union or a panchayat etc. and  not	any  region,place  or building within the State which might be  defined,described  or demarcated by the State's taxing enactment  asan area entry into which is made taxable.But there my agreement stops and we diverge.  In my opinion,this construction of the expression "local area" in entry 52does  not  automatically  result in the	 invalidity  of	 theimpugned enactment and of the levy under it, but the  extentto  which,  if any the charging section	 exceeds  the  powerconferred  by the entry would depend on matters	 which	havenot been the subject of investigation, and it is this pointthat I shall elaborate in the rest of this judgment.It is unnecessary for the purposes of this case and possiblyeven irrelevant, to determine the precise scope, content andincidents of an "octroi" duty except that in the context  inwhich it appeared in the Scheduled Taxes Rules framed tinderthe Government of India Act, 1919, the expression  signifieda  tax	levied	on entry into an area of an  unit  of  localadministration.	 It is unprofitable to canvass the question259whether a local authority empowered at that date to levy  an'octroi'  might	 or might not lawfully confine the  levy  toentry for consumption alone, to use alone or for sale alone.But  when that entry was refashioned and enacted as item  49of  the Provincial Legislative List under the Government  ofIndia  Act, 1935 (in terms practically identical with  Entry52  in the State Legislative List under	 the  Constitution),the matter was no longer left in doubt.	 The new item ran:"Cesses	 on  the  entry	 of goods  into	 a  local  area	 forconsumption, use or sale therein".In  connection with the use of the words  "for	consumption,use  or	 sale  therein" in the item  three  matters  deservenotice:	 (1) Where the entry into the "local area"  was	 notfor   one  of  the  purposes  set  out	in  it,	 viz.,	 forconsumption,  use  or sale therein, but the entry  was,	 forinstance in the course of transit or for warehousing  duringtransit, the power was not available; in other words, a mereentry  could not per se be made a taxable event. (2) It	 wassufficient  if	the  entry  was for any	 one  of  the  threepurposes; the use of the disjunctive 'or' making this clear.(3) The passage of goods from one portion of a local area toanother	 portion in the same local area, would not enable  atax  to be levied, but the entry has to be "into  the  localarea", i.e., from outside the local area.It  is the second and the third of the above  features	thatcall  for a more detailed examination in the context of	 thepoints requiring decision in the present case.With this background I shall analyse the terms of s.   3(1)of the Act (United Provinces Act XXII of 1956) to ascertainwhere  precisely  the provision departs from  the  scope  orcontent of entry 52.  I will read that section which runs:	      "3.   (1).   The	State  Government   may	  by	      notification in the official gazette impose  a	      cess not exceeding four annas per maund on the	      entry  of	 the  cane into the  premises  of  a	      factory for use, consumption or sale therein:	      Provided	 that  the  State   Government	 may	      likewise	remit in whole or in part such	cess	      in respect	      260	      of cane used or to be used in factory for	 any	      limited purpose specified in the notification.	      Explanation:-If  the State Government, in	 the	      case  of	any factory  situate  outside  Uttar	      Pradesh,	so  declare,  any  place  in   Uttar	      Pradesh  set  apart for the purchase  of	cane	      intended	or required for use, consumption  or	      sale in such factory shall be deemed to be the	      premises of the factory."Leaving	 the  Explanation  for-the present,  there  are	 twomatters	 which	require advertence: (1) The  first  was	 thepoint emphasised by Mr. Sanyal for the appellant, that entryinto  the  premises  of	 a  factory  "for  the	purpose	  ofconsumption,  use  or sale therein" is fastened	 on  as	 thetaxable event treating the factory premises as if that	wereitself	a  "local area". (2) Apart from entry  into  factorypremises for use, consumption or sale therein, entry of	 thecane  into  other places within the local area,	 i.e.,	into"unit  for local administration" is not made the subject  oftax levy.The  second  of	 the above  matters  cannot  invalidate	 thelegislation, because a power to tax is merely enabling,	 andapart  from  any  question  of	discrimination	under	Art.14--which  does	 not arise for consideration  before  us-theState is not bound to tax every entry of goods into "a localarea".	 Again,	 the tax could undoubtedly  be	confined  toentry of goods into a "local area" for consumption or use inparticular  modes; in other words, there could be  no  legalobjection  to  the tax levy on the ground that it  does	 notextend to entry of goods into "a local area" for every	typeof consumption or use.In  my judgment the real vice of the charging s.  3(1)	liesnot in that it Confines the levy to cases where the entry isfor  purposes  of  consumption etc. in	a  factory  but	 'inequating the premises of a factory with "a local area" entryof  goods  into which, occasions the tax.   Another  way  ofexpressing this same idea would be to say that whereas underEntry  52 the movement of goods from within the same  local.area  in which the factory is situated into the premises  ofthe  factory,  could not be the subject	 of  tax  liability,because there261would  in such cases be no entry of the goods "into a  localarea"  under s. 3(1) of the Act, not merely is the  movementof  goods into the factory from outside the 'local area'  inwhich  the factory is situate made the subject of  tax,	 butthe words used are capable of imposing the tax even in thosecases  where the entry into the factory is from	 within	 thesame local area.What  I have in mind may be thus illustrated: If  factory  Asituated  in Panchayat area B gets its supply of  cane	fromoutside the Panchayat area, the levy of the tax on the entryof the cane into the Panchayat area would clearly be coveredby  entry 52.  The State is not bound to tax every entry  ofthe  cane  into the area but might confine the levy  to	 theentry  of  the	cane for the purpose  of  consumption  in  afactory.   The	tax  might be levied and  collected  at	 theborder	of  the	 Panchayat  area  but  there  is  no   legalobligation to do so, and the place at which the entry of thegoods  is  checked  and the duty realised  is  a  matter  ofadministrative	machinery  which  does	not  touch  on	 thevalidity  of the tax imposition.  It would thus not  detractfrom the validity of the tax if by reason of convenience foreffecting  collection,	the tax was levied at the  stage  ofentry  into the premises of a factory.	So long,  therefore,as  the	 cane  which enters a factory  for  the	 purpose  ofconsumption  therein comes from outside that local  unit  ofadministration	in  which  the factory is  situated,  in  myopinion	 it  would be covered by the words of entry  52	 andwell   within  the  legislative	 competence  of	 the   StateGovernment.   The  language of s. 3, as it  stands  appears,however, also to extend to cases where the supply of cane toa   factory   is  from	within	the  same  local   unit	  ofadministration;	 in other words, where there is no entry  ofthe cane into the local area as explained earlier.  If	thiswere the true position, the enactment cannot be	 invalidatedas  a whole.  It would be valid to the extent to  which	 thetax is levied on cane entering a factory for the purpose  ofconsumption etc. therein from outside the local area, withinwhich  the factory premises are situated, and  only  invalidwhere it out steps this limitation.262The next question is whether this is a case where the  validand  invalid portions are so inextricably interwoven  as  toleave  the  Court no option but to strike  down	 the  entireenactment as invalid as beyond the legislative competence ofthe  State,  or whether the charging provision could  be  soread  down as to leave the valid portion to operate.  In  myopinion,  what is involved in the case before us is not	 anyproblem	 of  severance, but only of  reading  down.   Beforetaking up this question for discussion two objections to thelatter course have to be considered.  The first is that thisaspect	of  the matter was not argued before us	 by  learnedCounsel	 for  the  State  as a	ground	for  sustaining	 thevalidity of the legislation.  In my judgment this is not  anobjection  that should stand in the way of the Court  givingeffect to a view of the law if that should appear to be	 thecorrect one.  In making this observation one has necessarilyto  take  into account the fact that legislation  in  nearlythis  form, has been in force in the State for	over  twentyyears,	and  though its vires was once questioned  in  1942,that challenge was repelled and the tax levy was held  validand was being collected during all this period.	 The  sugar-cane cess has been a prime source of State Revenue for	thislength	of time and this Court should not pronounce  such  alegislation invalid unless it could not be sustained on	 anyreasonable ground and to any extent.The  second  ground of objection which has  appealed  to  mylearned	 brethren but with which, I regret, I cannot  concuris that it would require a rewriting of the- Act to  sustainit.Now if the first paragraph of sub-s. (1) of s. 3 badread:	      "The  State Government may by notification  in	      the   official  gazette  impose  a  cess	 not	      exceeding four annas per maund on the entry of	      the cane into the premises of a factory  (from	      outside  the local area in which	the  factory	      premises were situate) for use, consumption or	      sale therein:" (The words in brackets added by	      me)263the levy would be entirely within entry 52 even according tomy   learned   brethren.   The	question  is   whether	 theimplication  of	 these	words would be a  rewriting  of	 theprovision or whether it would be merely reading the existingprovision  so as to confine it to the powers conferred	uponthe State Legislature by the relevant legislative entry.  Inview  of  the  strong  opinion	entertained  by	 my  learnedbrethren, I have given the matter the utmost  consideration,but  I	feel  that the words which I have  suggested  are  apermissible mode of construction of a statute by which	widewords	of  an	enactment  which  would	 cover	 an   event,contingency  or matter within legislative power as  well  asmatters	 not within it, are read as confined to those  whichthe law making only had authority to enact.  In my  judgmentthe  opinion  of the Federal Court in In  re  Hindu  Women'sRights	to Property Act, 1937 (1), affords a useful  analogyto the present case.  The enactment there impugned  providedfor  the devolution or succession to "property"	 in  generalterms which would have included both agricultural as well asnonagricultural	 property, whereas the	Central	 Legislaturewhich  enacted the law had no power to deal with  successionto  agricultural property.  The contention urged before	 theCourt was that by the use of the expression "property",	 thelegislature  had evinced an intention to deal with  propertyof  every type and that it would be rewriting the  enactmentand  not  carrying  out	 the  legislative intent  if   thereference  to  "property"  in  the  statute  were  read	  as"property  other than agricultural property".  Dealing	withthis  contention, Sir Maurice Gwyer, delivering the  opinionof the Court said:	      "No doubt if the Act does affect	agricultural	      land  in	the  Governors	'Provinces,  it	 was	      beyond  the competence of the  Legislature  to	      enact  it: and whether or not it does so	must	      depend  upon the meaning which is to be  given	      to  the word "property" in the Act.   If	that	      word necessarily and inevitably comprises	 all	      forms  of	 property,  including	agricultural	      land,  then  clearly the Act went	 beyond	 the	      powers(1)  [1941] F.C.R. 12.264	      of  the  Legislature; but when  a	 Legislature	      with  limited and restricted powers makes	 use	      of a word of such wide and general import, the	      presumption must surely be that it is using it	      with reference 'to that kind of property	with	      respect to which it is competent to  legislate	      and to no other.	The question is thus one  of	      construction,  and  unless the Act  is  to  be	      regarded	as wholly meaningless  and  ineffec-	      tive, the Court is bound to construe the	word	      "property" as referring only to those forms of	      property with respect to which the Legislature	      which   enacted  the  Act	 was  competent	  to	      legislate; that is to say, property other than	      agricultural land.............. The Court does	      not  seek	 to divide the Act into	 two  parts,	      viz.,  the  part	which  the  Legislature	 was	      competent, and the part it was incompetent, to	      enact.	It   holds   that,   on	  the	true	      construction of the Act and especially of	 the	      word "property" as used in it, no part of	 the	      Act was beyond the Legislature's powers."The Court accordingly held that the Hindu Women's Rights  toProperty Act, 1937, applied to non-agricultural property andso was valid.  In this connection it might be interesting torefer  to the decision in Blackwood v. Queen (1)  which	 SirMaurice	 Gwyer, C.J., referred to with approval.  That	caserelated to the validity of a duty imposed by the Legislatureof Victoria (Australia) on the personal estates of  deceasedperson.	  The learned Chief Justice observed  "The  JudicialCommittee   construed  the  expression	 "personal   estate"occurring  in the statute to refer only to:  "such  personalestate	 as   the  colonial  grant  of	 probate   conferredjurisdiction on the personal representatives to	 administer,whatever  the domicile of the testator might be, that is  tosay,  personal estate situate within the Colony, in  respectof  which alone the Supreme Court of Victoria had  power  togrant  probate: Their Lordships thought that "in imposing  aduty  of  this	nature the Victorian  Legislature  also	 wascontemplating the property which was under its own hand, anddid not intend to levy a tax in respect of property(1)  [1882] 8 A.C. 82.265beyond	its jurisdiction".  And they held that "the  generalexpressions  which import the contrary ought to receive	 thequalification for which the appellant contends, and that thestatement  of personal property to be made by the  executorunder s. 7(2) of the Act should be confined to that propertywhich the probate enables him to administer" (1).To  confine the tax to the limitations subject to  which  itcould, under the Constitution, be levied is, in my  opinion,not  an	 improper  method of construing	 the  statute.	 Themanner	in  which the word "property" was read down  by	 theFederal Court in In re Hindu Women's Rights to Property Act,1937  (1) and the word "personal property" construed by	 thePrivy  Council in Blackwood v. Queen (2) make in my  opinionless  change in the text of the impugned provision than	 theaddition of the words I have set out above, which after	 allare  words  implicit  in the power conferred  on  the  StateLegislature.   I  would, therefore, hold that  the  chargingsection	  would	 be  invalid  and  beyond  the	 legislativecompetence  of the State of Uttar Pradesh only in so far  asit  seeks  to  levy a tax on cane entering  a  factory	fromwithin	the same local area in which the factory is  situateand that in all other cases the tax is properly levied;	 andthat  the  impugned section could and ought to	be  so	readdown.The  matter not having been considered from this  aspect  atearlier	 stages, we have necessarily no material  before  usfor  adjudicating upon whether tax levied or  demanded	fromthe  appellant	is due and if so to what  extent.   We	havenothing	 before us to indicate as to how far the  cane,	 theentry  of  which into the factory of the  appellant  is	 thesubject	 of  the impugned levy, has moved into	the  factoryfrom outside the local unit in which the factory is situatedor  originated from within the same local area.	 I  considerthat  without these matters being investigated it would	 notbe  possible  to  adjudicate upon the validity	of  the	 taxdemanded from the appellants.There is one matter to which it is necessary to(1)  Per Sir Maurice Gwyer, C. J. [1941] F.C.R. 12, 23,(2)  [1882] 8 A.C. 82.34266advert which I have reserved for later consideration,  viz.,the  validity of the Explanation to s. 3(1)of the  Act.	  Itwould  be apparent that the Explanation was necessitated  bythe  terms  of	sub-s. (1) of s. 3  which  equated  "factorypremises"  with "local areas", or rather  rendering  factorypremises  the sole local areas entry into  which  occasionedthe  tax.  So far as the purchasing centres which are  dealtwith  in the Explanation are concerned, the cane that  movesinto them from outside the "local area" where these  centresare would clearly be covered by Entry 52, since the  purposeof  the	 movement  into the centre is on the  terms  of	 theprovision for effecting a sale therein.	 In other words, thesame  tests  which I have discussed earlier in	relation  toentry into factory premises, would apply mutates mutandis tothese purchasing centres and in so far as a tax is levied onthe  movement  of the cane from outside the local  area	 thelevy  would  be legal and in order.  I would read  down	 theExplanation in the same manner, as I have read down the maincharging  provision so as to confine the levy to entry	fromoutside	 'that "local area"-local area being  understood  inthe sense already explained.I  would accordingly allow the appeal, and remand it to	 theHigh Court for investigating the material facts which I havementioned  earlier  with  a direction to  pass	judgment  inaccordance with the law as above explained.BY  COURT.  In accordance with the opinion of  the  majoritythe appeal is allowed, the order passed by the High Court isset   aside  and  a  writ  be  issued  directing  that	 therespondents do forbear from levying and collecting cess fromthe  appellants	 on  account  of arrears  of  cess  for	 thecrushing  season  1954-55 and  successive  crushing  seasonsunder the Uttar Pradesh Sugarcane Cess Act, 1956.The appellants will get their costs here and below.		      Appeal allowed.		  __________________267