PETITIONER:VIRENDRA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND ANOTHER(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:06/09/1957BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  896		  1958 SCR  308ACT:Press  Control-Notification  issued by State  Government  ondaily	newspaper-Prohibition  against	Publication   of   aParticular matter--Prohibition against entry into the State-Restrictions,  if  reasonable--If violative  of	 fundamentalright of freedom of speech and expression and right to carryon trade or business-The Punjab Special Powers (Press)	Act,1956  (No. 38 of 1956), SS. 2, 3-The Constitution of  India,Arts. 19(1)(a), 19(1)(g), 19(2), 19(6).HEADNOTE:These  two petitions challenged the constitutional  validityof  the Punjab Special Powers (Press) Act, 1956 (No.  38  of1956)  passed  by the State Legislature in the wake  of	 theserious communal tension that had arisen between the  Hindusand  the Akali Sikhs over the question of the  partition  ofthe   State  on	 a  linguistic	and  communal  basis.	 Thepetitioners  were  the	editors,  printers  and	 publishers,respectively,  of the two daily newspapers, Pratap  and	 VirArjun,	printed and published simultaneously from  jullundurand  New  Delhi, whose admitted policy was  to	support	 the"Save Hindi agitation".	 Two notifications under S.  2(1)(a)of the impugned Act were issued against the editor,  printerand publisher of the two papers published from Jullundur  bythe  Home  Secretary  prohibiting  him	from  printing	 andpublishing any matter relating to the 'Save Hindi agitation'in  the	 two papers for a period of two months.	  Two  othernotifications  in identical terms were issued under s.	3(1)of  the	 impugned  Act against	the  other  petitioner,	 theeditor, printer and publisher of the two papers in New Delhiprohibiting him from bringing into the Punjab the newspapersprinted	 and published in.  New Delhi from the date  of	 thepublication  of	 the notifications.  Unlike S. 2(1)  of	 theimpugned  Act which provided a time-limit for the  operationof an order made thereunder as also for a representation  tobe  made  by the aggrieved person, s. 3 of the Act  made  nosuch   provision.   It	was  contended	on  behalf  of	 thepetitioners  that  both the sections were  ultra  vires	 theState Legislature inasmuch as they infringed Arts.  19(1)(a)and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution and were not saved by Arts.19(2) and 19(6) of the Constitution.  It was urged that	 thesections  imposed  not	merely	restrictions  but  a   totalprohibition  against  the exercise of the  said	 fundamentalrights	by  prohibiting	 the  publication  of  all   mattersrelating to the 'Save Hindi agitation' under S. 2(1)(a)	 andby  a  complete prohibition of the entry of the	 two  papersinto the whole of the Punjab under s. 3(1) of the Act,	thateven supposing				       309that  the  sections merely imposed restrictions	 and  not  atotal  prohibition,  the restrictions were  not	 reasonable,that   the   sections  gave  unfettered	  and	uncontrolleddiscretion  to the State Government and its  delegate,	thatthe  Act did not provide for any safeguard against an  abuseof  the power, that the language of the sections being	wideenough	to  cover restrictions both within and	cutside	 thelimits	of constitutionally permissible	 legislative  actionthey  were  ultra  vires  the  Constitution  and  that	 thenotification  under  S.	 2(1)(a) of the Act  as	 made  wouldprevent	 even the publication of anything against the  'SaveHindi  agitation'  and should have been restricted  to	suchmatters	 alone	as were likely to prejudicially	 affect	 thepublic order.Held,  that  the restrictions imposed by S. 2(1)(a)  of	 theimpugned Act were reasonable restrictions within the meaningof Art. 19(2) of the Constitution and the petition  directedagainst	 the notifications issued thereunder must fail,	 butsince s. 3 Of the Act did not provide for any time limit forthe  operation	of  an	order  made  thereunder	 nor  for  arepresentation	 by  the  aggrieved  party  to	 the   StateGovernment,   the  restrictions	 imposed  by  it  were	 notreasonable restrictions under Art. 19(6) of the Constitutionand  the  petition directed against the	 notifications	madethereunder must succeed.Held  further, that there can be no doubt that the right  offreedom	 of speech and expression carries with it the  rightto  propagate one's views and the several rights of  freedomguaranteed by Art. 19(1) of the Constitution are exercisablethroughout India but whether or not any restrictions put  onthose  rights amount to a total prohibition of the  exerciseof  such rights must be judged by reference to their  ambit.So  judged,  the restrictions imposed in the  instant  caseswith  regard to the publications relating to only one  topicand  the  circulation  of the papers only  in  a  particularterritory  could  not amount to a total prohibition  of	 theexercise of the fundamental rights.The  expression	 "in the interest of" in  Arts.	  19(2)	 and19(6)  of the Constitution makes the protection they  affordvery  wide and although free propagation and interchange  ofviews  are ordinarily in social interest, circumstances	 mayarise  when social interest in public order is	greater	 andthe imposition of reasonable restrictions on the freedom  ofspeech	and  expression and on the freedom  of	carrying  ontrade  or business becomes imperative.	Regard being had  tothe surrounding circumstances in which the impugned Act	 waspassed,	 its object, the extent and urgency of the  evil  itsought	to  remedy, and the enormous power  wielded  by	 thePress, with modern facilities of quick circulation, and	 theconsequence  that  any	abuse  of  it  might  lead  to,	 therestrictions imposed by the impugned Act must be held to  bereasonable restrictions under the Articles.The  State  of	Madras	v. V. G.  Row,	(1952)	S.C.R.	597,followed.310It  was	 only  in  the fitness	of  things  that  the  StateLegislature  should  have left the  wide  preventive  powersunder	the  sections  to  the	discretion  of	 the   StateGovernment,  charged with the maintenance of law and  order,or  to	its delegate, to be exercised  on  their  subjectivesatisfaction.	 To  make  the	exercise  of  these   powersjusticiable  and  subject to judicial scrutiny would  be  todefeat the purpose of the enactment.Dr.   N. B. Khare v. The State of Delhi, (1950) S.C.R.	519,referred to.But   such  discretion	was  by	 no  means  unfettered	 anduncontrolled.  The two sections laid down the principle thatthe  State  Government or its delegate could  exercise	suchpowers	only if they were satisfied that such  exercise	 wasnecessary for the purpose mentioned in the sections and	 nototherwise.   Where  there  was any  abuse  of  such  powers,therefore,  what could be struck down was the  abuse  itselfbut not the statute.Dwaraka	 Prasad Laxmi Nayain v. The State of Uttar  Pradesh,(1954) S.C.R. 803, held inapplicable.Harishankar  Bagla v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, (1955)  1S.C.R. 380, relied on.In  view  of  the amended provisions of Art.  19(2)  of	 theConstitution  and the language of the two sections  limitingthe  exercise  of the powers to	 the  purposes	specificallymentioned  therein, the principles enunciated by this  Courtin Ramesh Thappay's case and applied to Chintaman Rao's casecould have no application to the instant cases.Ramesh Thappay v. The State of Madras, (1950) S.C.R. 594 andChintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, (1950) S.C. R.759, held inapplicable.The  two  provisos  to s. 2(1)(a) and cl.  (b)	of  S.	2(1)clearly	 show  that  the restrictions imposed by  s.  2	 arereasonable  restrictions  on  the  exercise  of	 the  rightsguaranteed   by	 Arts.	19(1)(a)  and  19(1)(g)	  and	are,therefore,  protected  by  Arts.  9(2)	and  19(6)  of	 theConstitution.There could be no basis for the grievance that the notifica-tion  under  s. 2(1)(a) prevented the  publication  even  ofmatters against the 'Save Hindi agitation'.  If there was  achange in the policy of the papers, the time-limit  providedfor the operation of the notifications and the right to makea representation provided ample remedies for the petitioner.To   introduce	 into  the   notifications   the   suggestedqualification  would be to make the exercise of	 the  powersconferred  by  the section dependent on	 an  objective	testsubject to judicial scrutiny and defeat the very purpose  ofthe section.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos, 95 and  96  of1957.311Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental Rights.N.   C. Chatterjee, Charan Das Puri and Naunit Lal, for	 thepetitioners (in both the petitions).C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India,	Lachman	 DasKaushal, Deputy Advocate-General for the State of Punjab andT. M. Sen, for the respondents.1957.  September 6. The following Judgment of the Court	 wasdelivered byDAS  C.J.-In  these  two  petitions under  Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution  of India the petitioners call in question	 thevalidity  of  the Punjab Special Powers	 (Press)  Act,	1956(being Act No. 38 of 1956), hereinafter referred to as " theimpugned  Act ", and pray for an appropriate writ  or  orderdirecting  the	respondents to	withdraw  the  Notificationsissued	by  them  on the two  petitioners  as  the  editors,printers  and publishers of two newspapers, Pratap  and	 VirArjun.The Daily Pratap was started about 38 years back in  Lahore,the  capital of the united Punjab.  It is a daily  newspaperprinted	 in  the  Urdu	language  and  ,script.	  Since	 thepartition of the country the Daily Pratap is being publishedsimultaneously	from Jullundur and from New Delhi Vir  Arjunis  a  Hindi daily newspaper also  published  simultaneouslyfrom   Jullundur   and	from  New  Delhi.    Virendra,	 thepetitioner,  in	 Petition  No. 95 of  1957  is	the  editor,printer	 and  publisher	 of the two  papers  published	fromJullundur  and	K.  Narendra  is  the  editor,	printer	 andpublisher of the two papers published from New Delhi.The  petitioners  allege that after the appointment  of	 theStates	Reorganisation Commission on December 29, 1953,	 theAkali  party  in  the  Punjab started  a  campaign  for	 thepartition of the State of Punjab on communal and  linguisticbasis.	 According  to the petitioners this  agitation	soondegenerated  into a campaign of hatred which threatened	 thepeace of the State.  The petitioners maintain that the Hinduinhabitants of the State belonging to all shades of  opinionand also a section of the Sikh community and312the  Congress Party were strongly opposed to that  proposal.It  is	in the circumstances reasonable to  infer  that	 theHindus	would  also indulge in a counter propaganda  in	 thePress and from the platform against the agitation started bythe  Akali party.  It is admitted that the policy  of  thesetwo  papers,  the Daily Pratap and Vir Arjun,  has  been  tooppose	the  Akali  demand for partition  of  the  State  ofPunjab.	  Obviously a good deal of tension was generated  inthe  State  by reason of the two bitterly  opposing  partiestrying	to propagate their respective ideologies.   About  ayear back the Congress Party, which is the ruling party,  issaid  to  have surrendered to the communal pressure  of	 theAkalies and accepted what has since come to be known as	 theregional formula.  It was amidst the din and bustle of	thisideological  war  and  to prevent and  combat  any  possibleactivity prejudicial to the maintenance of communal  harmonythat  the  Legislature	of  the State  of  Punjab  found  itnecessary to pass the impugned Act which received the assentof the President on October 19, 1956, and came into force onthe 25th of the same month.The provisions of the impugned - Act, in so far as they	 arematerial, may now be referred to.  Section 2 (1) (a) runs asfollows:"  2(1) The State Government or any authority so  authorisedin  this behalf if satisfied that such action  is  necessaryfor  the  purpose of preventing or  combating  any  activityprejudicial to the maintenance of communal harmony affectingor  likely to affect public order, may, by order in  writingaddressed to a printer publisher or editor,-(a)  prohibit the printing or publication in any document orany  class  of	documents  of  any  matter  relating  to   aparticular  subject  or class of subjects  for	a  specifiedperiod or in a particular issue or issues of a newspaper  orperiodical;Provided  that no such order shall remain in force for	morethan two months from the making thereof;Provided further that the person against whom the order	 hasbeen made may within ten days of the313passing	 of  this order make a representation to  the  StateGovernment  which  may	on  consideration  thereof   modify,confirm or rescind the order;"Section	 2(1)(b)  authorises  the State	 Government  or	 anyauthority  so authorised in this behalf to require that	 anymatter	covering not more than two columns be  published  inany particular issue or issues of a newspaper or  periodicalon  payment  of	 adequate remuneration and  to	specify	 theperiod (not exceeding one week) during which and the  mannerin  which such publication shall take place.  Clause (c)  ofs.  2(1)  authorises the State Government or  the  delegatedauthority to impose pre-censorship.  Sub-section (2) of s. 2enables	 the State Government or the authority	issuing	 theorder  in  the event of any disobedience of  an	 order	madeunder  s.  2  to  order the seizure of	all  copies  of	 anypublication and of the printing press or other instrument orapparatus  used	 in the publication.  Section 3(1)  runs  asfollows:" The State Government or any authority authorised by it  inthis behalf, if satisfied that such action is necessary	 forthe   purpose  of  preventing  or  combating  any   activityprejudical to the maintenance of communal harmony  affectingor  likely  to affect public order,  may,  by  notification,prohibit   the	bringing  into	Punjab	of  any	  newspaper,periodical, leaflet or other publication."Sub-section (2) of s. 3 gives power to the State  Governmentor  the	 authority issuing the order, in the  event  of	 anydisobedience  of  an  order made under s. 3,  to  order	 theseizure of all copies of any newspaper, periodical,  leafletor   other  publication	 concerned.   Section	4   providespunishment for the contravention of any of the provisions ofthe  Act  by imprisonment of either  description  which	 mayextend to one year or with fine up to one thousand rupees orwith both.It  appears that on or about May 30, 1957, a movement  knownas the "save Hindi agitation " was started by a Samiti whichgoes  by the name of Hindi Raksha Samiti.  The	Arya  Samaj,which claims to be a cultural and religious society,  joinedthis campaign314for  changing  what they conceive to  be  the  objectionablefeatures  of the regional formula and the Sachar formula  onlanguage.   According  to the petitioners the  Hindi  RakshaSamiti,	 the sponsor of the " save Hindi agitation "  claimsthat  it has the support of practically all sections of	 theHindus	of the State.  The petitioners who are the  editors,printers  and  publishers of the  two  newspapers  publishedsimultaneously	from  Jullunder and New	 Delhi	respectivelyconsider  that the objectionable clauses of  those  formulaeare  not only unjust and unfair to the cause of	 propagatingthat  national	language  in the country,  but	are  also  acontrivance  to	 secure	 the  political	 domination  of	 theminority  community  over  the	majority.   Admittedly	 thepetitioners   have  been  publishing  criticisms  and	newsconcerning the agitation which, according to them, are quitefair  and legitimate, but they allege that  newspapers	likePrabhat and Ajit, which support the Akali party in the Statehave  been publishing articles and news couched in a  strongand  violent language against the " save Hindi	agitation  "and the Hindu community.  The agitation apparently  followedthe  usual course and pattern of all political agitation  ofthis  kind  with its attendant demonstrations,	slogans	 andsatyagraha by the volunteers and lathi charge by the police.Eventually on July 10, 1957, the agitation culminated in the" save Hindi agitation " volunteers' forcible entry into theSecretariat of the Punjab Government at Chandigarh.  It	 wasin   these   circumstances  that  the	four   Notificationscomplained of were issued.On  July  13, 1957, a Notification under s. 2(1)(a)  of	 theimpugned Act was issued against the petitioner Virendra,  asthe  editor,  printer  and publisher  of  the  Daily  Pratappublished from Jullundar.  It was in the following terms:"   Whereas   1,  Ranbir  Singh,  Home	 Secretary,   PunjabGovernment, authorised by the said Government under  section2(1)  of  the Punjab Special Powers (Press)  Act,  1956,  onexamination  of the publications enumerated in the  annexurerelating  to  the " save Hindi agitation  "  have  satisfiedmyself that action is315necessary  for	combating  the	calculated  and	  persistentpropaganda carried on in the newspaper the Pratap' publishedat  Jullundar  to disturb communal harmony in the  State  ofPunjab;And  whereas  the  said propaganda by making  an  appeal  tocommunal sentiments has created a situation which is  likelyto affect public order and tranquillity in the State ;And  therefore	in pursuance of the powers  conferred  undersub-clause (a) of clause (1) of section 2 of the said Act, 1prohibit  Shri	Virendra,  the printer,	 publisher  and	 theeditor of 'Pratap' from printing and publishing any article,report,	 news  item,  letter or any other  material  of	 anycharacter  whatso ever relating to or connected	 with  "saveHindi agitation" for a period of two months from this date.Sd./ Rome Secretary to Government	      Punjab.No: 8472-C(H) 57/14679 "The  annexure referred to in the Notifications sets out	 theheadings of fifteen several articles published in this paperbetween May 30, 1957, to July 8, 1957.	Another Notificationin  identical  terms  with an  annexure	 setting  forth	 theheading of sixteen articles published during the same periodin Vir Arjun was issued on the same day against Virendra  asthe  editor,  printer and publisher of Vir  Arjun  publishedfrom Jullundar.On July 14, 1957, two Notifications in identical terms	wereissued under s. 3 of the impugned Act against K. Narendra asthe  editor, printer and publisher of Daily Pratap  and	 VirArjun published from New Delhi.	 It will suffice to set	 outthe  Notification  in respect of Daily Pratap which  ran  asfollows:		 Punjab Government Gazette		       Extraordinary		   Published by Authority	   Chandigarh, Sunday, July 14, 1957.				     Home Department				     Notification				     The 14th July, 1957,41316No.   8453-C(H)-57/14580:-Whereas  1,  Ranbir  Singh,	HomeSecretary  to  Government, Punjab, authorised  by  the	saidGovernment  under  section 3 of the  Punjab  Special  Powers(Press)	 Act,  1956,  have  satisfied  myself  that  it	  isnecessary to combat and prevent the propaganda relating to "save  Hindi  agitation " carried on in the Pratap  with	 theobject of disturbing communal harmony in the State of Punjaband thereby affecting public order;Now,  therefore,  in  exercise of the  powers  conferred  bysection	 3(1)  of  the said Act, I do  hereby  prohibit	 thebringing into Punjab of the newspaper printed and  publishedat   Delhi,   from   the  date	of   publication   of	thisnotification."The  petitioners  contend  that	 both ss. 2  and  3  of	 theimpugned Act are ultra vires the State Legislature,  becausethey  infringe	the fundamental rights	of  the	 petitionersguaranteed   by	  Arts.	 19(1)(a)  and	 19(1)(g)   of	 theConstitution and are not saved by the protecting  provisionsembodied in Art. 19(2) or Art. 19(6).  In the first place itis   contended	that  these  sections  impose	not   merelyrestrictions  on but total prohibition against the  exerciseof  the	 said  fundamental rights, for in the  case  of	 theNotifications  under  s.  2 there  is  a  total	 prohibitionagainst	 the publication of all matters' relating to  or  inconnection with the " save Hindi agitation " and in the caseof  the	 Notifications made under s. 3 there is	 a  completeprohibition  against  the entry and the circulation  of	 thepapers	published  from New Delhi in the  whole	 of  Punjab.There is and can be no dispute that the right to freedom  ofspeech and expression carries with it the right to propagateand circulate one's views and opinions subject to reasonablerestrictions.	The  point to be kept in view  is  that	 theseveral rights of freedom guaranteed to the citizens by Art.19(1) are exercisable by them throughout and in all parts ofthe territory of India.	 The Notifications under s.  2(1)(a)prohibiting  the  printing and publishing  of  any  article,report,	 news  item,  letter or any other  material  of	 anycharacter  whatsoever relating to or connected with  "	saveHindi  agitation  " or those under s. 3(1)  imposing  a	 banagainst the entry317and  the circulation of the said papers published  from	 NewDelhi in the State of Punjab do not obviously take away	 theentire	right,	for the petitioners are yet  at	 liberty  toprint  and  publish  all  other	 matters  and  are  free  tocirculate the papers in all other parts of the territory  ofIndia.	 The  restrictions,  so	 far  as  they	extend,	 arecertainly  complete  but  whether they	amount	to  a  totalprohibition  of the exercise of the fundamental rights	mustbe  judged by reference to the ambit of the rights  and,  sojudged,	 there	can be no question that	 the  entire  rightsunder  Arts. 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) have not been  completelytaken  away,  but restrictions have been  imposed  upon	 theexercise  of those rights with reference to the	 publicationof  only  articles etc. relating to a particular  topic	 andwith  reference to the circulation of the papers only  in  aparticular territory and, therefore, it is not right to	 saythat  these sections have imposed a total  prohibition	uponthe exercise of those fundamental rights.Learned	 counsel  then urges that  assuming  these  sectionsimpose	only  restrictions they are, nevertheless,  void  asbeing	repugnant   to	 the   Constitution,   because	 therestrictions  are not reasonable.  As regards the  right  tofreedom of speech and expression guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(a)it is qualified by Art. 19(2) which protects a law in so faras it imposes reasonable restriction on the exercise of	 theright	conferred  by  Art.  19(1)(a)  "in   the   interestsof.....................................		      publicorder..................	 Likewise the right to carry on	 anyoccupation, trade or business guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g) isout down by Art. 19(6) which protects a law imposing "in theinterests of the general public" reasonable restrictions  onthe  exercise of the right conferred by Art.  19(1)(g).	  Ashas  been explained by this Court in Ramji Lal Modi  v.	 TheState  of  U. P. (1) the words " in the interests of  "	 arewords of great amplitude and are much wider than the words "for  the maintenance of ". The expression " in the  interestof " makes the ambit of the protection very wide, for a	 lawmay  not have been designed to directly maintain the  publicorder or to directly protect the general public against	 anyparticular evil and yet it(1)  Petition No. 252 of 1955. decided on April 5, 1957.318may  have  been enacted "in the interests of  "	 the  publicorder  or  the	general public as the case may	be.   It  isagainst	 this  background,  therefore, that we	are  to	 seewhether the restrictions imposed by ss. 2 and 3 can be	saidto  be reasonable restrictions within the meaning  of  Arts.19(2) and 19(6).The test of reasonableness has been laid down by this  Courtin  The	 State of Madras v. V. G. Row (1) in  the  followingwords:"  It is-important in this context to bear in mind that	 thetest  of  reasonableness,  wherever  prescribed,  should  beapplied to each individual statute impugned, and no abstractstandard or general pattern, of reason ableness can be	laiddown  as applicable to all cases.  The nature of  the  rightalleged	 to have been infringed, the underlying	 purpose  ofthe restrictions imposed, the extent and urgency of the evilsought	to  be remedied thereby, the  disproportion  of	 theimposition,  the prevailing conditions at the  time,  shouldall enter into the judicial verdict.This  dictum has been adopted and applied by this  Court  inseveral subsequent cases.  The surrounding circumstances  inwhich  the impugned law came to be enacted,  the  underlyingpurpose	 of the enactment and the extent and the urgency  ofthe  evil sought to be remedied have already  been  advertedto.   It  cannot be overlooked that the Press  is  a  mightyinstitution  wielding enormous powers which are expected  tobe  exercised for the protection and the good of the  peoplebut which may conceivably be abused and exercised for  anti-social purposes by exciting the passions and prejudices of asection	 of the people against another section	and  therebydisturbing  the public order and tranquillity or in  supportof  a  policy which may be of a subversive  character.	 Thepowerful  influence of the newspapers, for good or evil,  onthe minds of the readers, the wide sweep of their reach, themodern	 facilities   for   their   swift   circulation	  toterritories,  distant  and  near, must all  enter  into	 thejudicial verdict and the reasonableness of the	restrictionsimposed upon(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 597,607.319the  Press has to be tested against this background.  It  iscertainly  a  serious  encroachment  on	 the  valuable	 andcherished  right  to freedom of speech and expression  if  anewspaper is prevented from publishing its own views or	 theviews  of its correspondent&-relating to or concerning	whatmay  be the burning topic of the day.  Our  social  interestordinarily  demands the free propagation and interchange  ofviews  but circumstances may arise when the social  interestin  public order may require a reasonable  subordination  ofthe  social  interest in free speech and expression  to	 theneeds	of  our	 social	 interest  in  public  order.	 OurConstitution recognises this necessity and has attempted  tostrike	a  balance  between the two  social  interests.	  Itpermits	 the  imposition of reasonable restrictions  on	 thefreedom	 of speech and expression in the interest of  publicorder and on the freedom of carrying on trade or business inthe interest of the general public.  Therefore, the  crucialquestion  must always be : Are the restrictions	 imposed  onthe exercise of the rights under Arts. 19 (1) (a) and 19 (1)(g) reasonable in view of all the surrounding  circumstances?  In other words are the restrictions reasonably  necessaryin  the interest of public order under Art. 19(2) or in	 theinterest of the general public under Art. 19(6) ?It is conceded that a serious tension had arisen between theHindus and the Akalis over the question of the partition  ofthe State on linguistic and communal basis.  The people weredivided	  into	two  warring  groups,  one  supporting	 theagitation and the other opposing it.  The agitation and	 thecounter	 agitation  were being carried on in the  Press	 andfrom the platforms.  Quite conceivably this agitation  mightat any time assume a nasty communal turn and flare up into acommunal  frenzy  and factious fight disturbing	 the  publicorder of the State which is on the border of a foreign Stateand  where  consequently the public order  and	tranquillitywere and are essential in the interest of the safety of	 theState.	 It was for preserving the safety of the  State	 andfor  maintaining  the  public  order  that  the	 Legislatureenacted	 this  impugned	 Statute.  Legislature	had  to	 askitself the question, who will be320the appropriate authority to determine at any given point oftime as to whether the prevailing cicumstances require	somerestriction  to be placed on the right to freedom of  speechand  expression	 and the right to carry on  any	 occupation,trade  or  business  and to what  extent?   The	 answer	 wasobvious,  namely, that as the State Government	was  chargedwith  the preservation of law and order in the State, as  italone  was in possession of all material facts it  would  bethe  beat  authority to investigate  the  circumstances	 andassess the urgency of the situation that might arise and  tomake up its mind whether any and, if so., what	anticipatoryaction must be taken for the prevention of the threatened oranticipated breach of the peace The court is wholly unsuitedto gauge the seriousness of the situation, for it cannot  bein  possession of materials which are available only to	 theexecutive  Government.	Therefore, the determination of	 thetime  when  and the extent to which restrictions  should  beimposed	 on  the  Press must of necessity  be  left  to	 thejudgment and discretion of the State Government and that  isexactly what the Legislature did by passing the statute'  Itgave  wide powers to the State Government, or the  authorityto whom it might delegate the same, to be exercised only  ifit  were  satisfied as to the things mentioned	in  the	 twosections.   The	 conferment  of	 such  wide  powers  to	  beexercised  on the subjective satisfaction of the  Governmentor its delegate as to the necessity for its exercise for thepurpose of preventing or combating any activity	 prejudicialto  the maintenance of communal harmony affecting or  likelyto  affect public order cannot, in view of  the	 surroundingcircumstances  and  tension brought about or  aided  by	 theagitation  in  the Press, be regarded as  anything  but	 theimposition of permissible reasonable restrictions on the twofundamental rights.  Quick decision and swift and  effectiveaction	must  be  of the essence of  those  powers  and	 theexercise  of it must, therefore, be left to  the  subjectivesatisfaction  of  the Government charged with  the  duty  ofmaintaining  law and order.  To make the exercise  of  thesepowers justiciable and subject to the judicial scrutiny willdefeat the very.321purpose	 of the enactment.  Even in his dissenting  judgmentin Dr. N. B. Khare v. The State of Delhi (1) Mukherjea,	 J.,conceded   that	 in  cases  of	this   description   certainauthorities  could  be invested with power to  make  initialorders on their own satisfaction and not on materials  whichsatisfy certain objective tests.It   is	  said	that  the  sections  give   unfettered	 anduncontrolled  discretion to the State Government or  to	 theofficer	 authorised  by it in the exercise  of	the  drasticpowers	given  by  the sections.  We  are  referred  to	 theobservations of Mukherjea, J., in Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narainv. The State of Uttar Pradesh (2).  That case does not	seemto us to have any application to the facts of this case.' Inthe  first  place,  the discretion is  given  in  the  firstinstance  to the State Government itself and not to  a	verysubordinate  officer like the licensing officer as was	donein Dwaraka Prasad's case (supra).  It is true that the StateGovernment  may delegate the power to any officer or  personbut the fact that the power of delegation is to be exercisedby the State Government itself is some safeguard against theabuse  of this power of delegation.  That apart, it will  beremembered that the Uttar Pradesh Coal Control Order,  1953,with   reference  to  which  the  observations	were   made,prescribed no principles and gave no guidance in the  matterof  the	 exercise of the power.	 There was nothing  in	thatorder	to   indicate  the  purpose  for   which   and	 thecircumstances  under  which the	 licensing  authority  couldgrant  or  refuse  to grant, renew or refuse  to  renew,  orsuspend,  revoke,  cancel or modify any license	 under	thatorder  and, therefore, the power could be exercised  by	 anyperson	to whom the State Coal Controller might have  chosento  delegate  the  same.  No rules had been  framed  and  nodirections  had	 been  given  on  the  relevant	 matters  toregulate  or to guide the exercise of the discretion of	 thelicensing  officer.  That cannot, in our judgment,  be	saidabout s. 2 or s. 3 of the impugned Act, for the exercise  ofthe power under either of these two sections is	 conditionedby  the State Government or the authority authorised by	 thesaid Government being satisfied that such(1) [1950] S.C.R. 510.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 803,813.322action	was  necessary	for the	 purpose  of  preventing  orcombating  any	activity prejudicial to the  maintenance  ofcommunal  harmony affecting or likely to affect	 the  publicorder.	 As explained by this Court in Harishankar Bagla  v.The State of Madhya Pradesh(1), the dictum of Mukherjea, J.,can  have  no  application  to a  law  which  sets  out	 itsunderlying policy so that the order-to be made under the lawis to be governed by that policy and the discretion given tothe  authority	is  to	be exercised in such  a	 way  as  toeffectuate  that  policy,  and	the  conferment	 of  such  adiscretion  so regulated cannot be called invalid.  The	 twosections  before  us lay down the principle that  the  StateGovernment or the delegated authority can exercise the poweronly  if it is satisfied that its exercise is necessary	 forthe  purposes  mentioned  in the sections.   It	 cannot,  beexercised  for	any  other purposes.  In this  view  of	 thematter	neither of these sections can be questioned  on	 theground that they give unfettered and uncontrolled discretionto  the	 State Government or one executive  officer  in	 theexercise of discretionary powers given by the section.It  is next said that an executive officer may	untruthfullysay,  as  a matter of form, that he has been  satisfied	 andthere  is nothing in the section which may prevent him	fromabusing	 the power so conferred by these sections.  But,  aspointed	 out  in Khare's case (supra), the,  exercise  of  adiscretionary	preventive   power  to	 be   exercised	  inanticipation  for preventing a breach of public	 order	mustnecessarily be left to the State Government or its  officersto whom the State Government may delegate the authority.  Noassumption ought to be made that the State Government or theauthority will abuse its power.	 To make the exercise of thepower justiciable will defeat the very purpose for which thepower	is  given.   Further,  even  if	 the   officer	 mayconceivably abuse the power, what will be struck down is notthe statute but the abuse of power.Reference has been made to the principles enunciated by thisCourt in Ramesh Thappar v. The, State Of(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380, 386, 387.323Madras	(1),  and applied in Chintaman Rao v. The  State  ofMadhya Pradesh(2), namely, that if the language employed  inthe  impugned law is wide enough to cover  restriction	bothwithin	 and   outside	the   limits   of   constitutionallypermissible  legislative  action  affecting  the  guaranteedfundamental  rights  and so long as the possibility  of	 thestatute	 being	applied for purposes not sanctioned  by	 theConstitution  cannot  be  ruled out, the  sections  must  bestruck down as ultra vires the Constitution. We do not thinkthose principles have any applications the instant case.  Itwill  be remembered that Art.19(2), as it was  then  worded,gave protection to a law relating to any matter which under-mined  the  security of or tended to  overthrow	 the  State.Section 9(1-A) of the Madras Maintenance of Public Order wasmade  "for  the purpose of securing public  safety  and	 themaintenance  of	 public	 order".  It was  pointed  out	thatwhatever  end the impugned Act might have been	intended  tosubserve  and  whatever aim its framers might  have  had  inview, its application and scope could not, in the absence oflimiting  words in the statute itself, be restricted to	 theaggravated  form  of  activities which	were  calculated  toendanger  the  security	 of the State.	Nor  was  there	 anyguarantee that those officers who exercised the power  underthe Act would, in using them, discriminate between those whoacted  prejudicially to the security of the State and  thosewho  did not.  This consideration cannot apply to  the	casenow under consideration.  Article 19(2) has been amended  soas  to	extend its protection to a law	imposing  reasonablerestrictions  in  the  interests of  public  order  and	 thelanguage used in the two sections of the impugned Act  quiteclearly	 and  explicitly limits the exercise of	 the  powersconferred by them to the purposes specifically mentioned  inthe sections and to no other purpose.Apart  from the limitations and conditions for the  exerciseof  the powers contained in the body of the two sections  ashereinbefore mentioned, there are two provisos to s. 2(1)(a)which  are  important.	Under the first proviso	 the  ordersmade under s. 2(1)(a) can only remain(1)  [1950] S.C.R. 594.42(2) [1950] S.C.R. 759.324in  force for two months from the making thereof.   Further,there is another proviso permitting the aggrieved person  tomake a representation to the State Government which may,  onconsideration thereof, modify, confirm or rescind the order.A power the exercise of which is conditioned by the positiverequirement  of	 the existence of the  satisfaction  of	 theauthority  as to the necessity for making the order for	 thespecific purposes mentioned in the section and the effect ofthe  exercise  of  which is to remain  in  operation  for  alimited	 period	 only  and  is	liable	to  be	modified  orrescinded  upon a representation being made cannot,  in	 ouropinion,   in  view  of	 the  attending	 circumstances,	  becharacterised  as  unreasonable and outside  the  protectiongiven by Art. 19(2) or Art. 19(6).  Under el. (b) of  sub-s.(1) of s. 2. also there are several conditions, namely, thatthe  matter required to be published must not be  more	thantwo columns, that adquate remuneration must be paid for suchpublication  and  that such requirement cannot	prevail	 formore  than  one week.  A consideration of  these  safeguardsmust,	in  our	 opinion,  have	 an  important	bearing	  indetermining  the reasonableness of the restrictions  imposedby  s.	2.  The prevailing circumstances which	led  to	 thepassing	 of the statute, the urgency and extent of the	evilof communal antagonism and hatred which must be combated andprevented,  the	 facility  with	 which	the  evil  might  beaggravated  by	partisan news and views published  in  dailynewspapers  having  large  circulation	and  the  conditionsimposed	 by the section itself on the exercise of the  powerconferred  by  it must all be taken  into  consideration  injudging	 the reasonableness or otherwise of the law and,  sojudged,	 s.  2	must  be held  to  have	 imposed  reasonablerestrictions  on  the exercise of the rights  guaranteed  byArts. 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) in the interest of public  orderand  of the general public and is protected by	Arts.  19(2)and 19(6).Learned	 counsel appearing for the petitioner Virendra	alsomaintains  that	 assuming  that s.  2(1)(a)  is	 valid,	 theNotifications  actually issued thereunder are much too	widein language and cannot be supported.  The325operative  part of the Notification prevents the  petitionerfrom publishing any article, news item, letter or any  othermatter of any character whatsoever relating to or  connectedwith  the  "save  Hindi agitation".  It	 is  said  that	 thepetitioner  cannot even publish a report or a letter from  acorrespondent  against	the it save Hindi  agitation  ".  Itcannot	publish a report of the statement made on the  floorof  the House by the Prime Minister deprecating the  "	saveHindi  agitation ". This argument appears to us to  have  noreal substance.	 If the section is good-and that is what  wehold  it  to be and that is what, for the purposes  of	thispart of the argument, learned counsel is prepared to assume-then the section has conferred on the State Government	thispower to be exercised if it is satisfied as to the necessityfor its exercise for the purposes mentioned in the  section.In  other words the exercise of the power is made  dependenton  the subjective satisfaction of the State  Government  orits  delegate.	If the State Government or its	delegate  issatisfied  that for the purposes of achieving the  specifiedobjects	 it is necessary to prohibit the publication of	 anymatter relating to the " save Hindi agitation " then for thecourt  to say that so much restriction is not  necessary  toachieve	 those	objects	 is  only  to  substitute  its	 ownsatisfaction  for  that	 of  the  State	 Government  or	 itsdelegate.  The authority before making the order had appliedits  mind and had made its estimate of the general trend  ofthe policy of these papers and their possible reactions	 andhad  formed its satisfaction as to the necessity for  makingthe  orders  founded on the several  articles  published  inthese papers between May 30, 1957, and July 8, 1957, whereinthe  petitioner	 had  systematically  published	 matters  insupport	 of the agitation and its disapproval of  everythingwhich  might run counter to that agitation.  It is  admittedthat the policy of the papers is to support the " save Hindiagitation ". Therefore, a grievance that the papers are	 notallowed	 even  to  publish anything  against  the  agitationsounds	hollow, wholly unconvincing and of no  substance  atall.  It may not be unreasonable for the Government to	holdthe opinion, in326view of the antecedents and policy of these papers that theywill not publish any news or views running counter to  theirpolicy without adverse comments.  Further, if there  happensto  be	a change in their policy there will  be	 nothing  toprevent	 the petitioner from making a representation to	 theState Government asking it to modify its Notifications.	  Inour  view, having regard to the body of s. 2(1)(a)  and	 thetwo  provisos  thereto,	 namely, the conditions	 as  to	 thesatisfaction of the authority in respect of certain  mattersspecified in the section, the time limit as to the  efficacyof the Notifications and the right to make a  representationgiven  to  the aggrieved party makes this  grievance  whollyillusory.It is said that the Notifications should have been qualifiedso as to prohibit the publication of any matter relating  tothe   "	 save  Hindi  agitation	 "  which  was	 likely	  toprejudicially  affect  the  public order.   Suppose  such  aqualification  had  been super-added, then there  should  besomebody   who	would  have  to	 judge	whether	 any   givenpublication did or did not affect the public order.  If	 theeditor	claimed that it did not but the State held  that  itdid  who would decide and when ? It would obviously  be	 thecourt	then  which  would  have  to  decide   whether	 thepublication  was likely to prejudicially affect	 the  publicorder.	If the Government exercised the power of seizure  tostop the circulation of the offending issue then it would doso  at	the  risk of having to satisfy the  court  that	 forpreventing the public order being prejudicially affected  itwas  necessary to stop such circulation.  That would be	 theissue before the court.	 Likewise if the Government launcheda  prosecution under s. 4 then also the issue would  be	 thesame.	That would obviously defeat the very purpose of	 thesection	 itself	 which, for this argument,  is	accepted  asvalid.	Thequestion of the necessity for the exercise of thepower for the purpose of achieving the specified objects is,having	regard	to  the very nature of	the  thing  and	 thesurrounding  circumstances, left by the section entirely  tothe  subjective	 satisfaction of the Government and  if	 theGovernment exercises that power after being327satisfied  that	 it is necessary so to do for  the  purposesmentioned  in the section and if the Notification is  withinthe  section, in the sense that it directs or prohibits	 thedoing  of something which the section itself authorises	 theGovernment  to	direct	or prohibit,  then  nothing  furtherremains	 to  be considered.  The' only issue that  can	thenarise  will  be whether the Notification has  been  compliedwith  and the court will only have to decide  whether  therehas been a contravention of the Notification.  To  introducethe  suggested qualification in the Notification will be  tomake the exercise of the power which is by the section	leftto  the subjective satisfaction of the Government  dependenton an objective test subject to judicial scrutiny.  That, aswe  have  explained,  will defeat the very  purpose  of	 thesection itself.It is lastly contended that the impugned Notifications	havebeen  made  mala fide in order only to	suppress  legitimatecriticisms  and	 fair comments on public affairs.   We	haveperused the articles annexed to the affidavit in  oppositionand  referred to in the Notifications themselves and we	 arenot  satisfied	that  no  reasonable  person  reading  thosearticles could entertain the opinion and feel satisfied thatit  was	 necessary  to	make  the  order  for  the  purposesmentioned  in  the section.  We are unable to hold,  on	 thematerials before us, that the Notifications issued under s.2were mala fide.The observations hereinbefore made as to the safeguards	 setforth  in  the	provisions of s.  2(1)(a)  and	(b)  cannot,however,  apply	 to  the provisions of s.  3.  Although	 theexercise of the powers under s. 3(1) is subject to the	samecondition as to the satisfaction of the State Government  orits  delegate  as  is mentioned in  s.	2(1)(a),  there	 is,however,  no time limit for the operation of an	 order	madeunder  this section nor is there any provision made for	 anyrepresentation	being  made to the  State  Government.	 Theabsence	 of  these  safeguards in s.  3	 clearly  makes	 itsprovisions  unreasonable and the  learned  Solicitor-Generalobviously felt some difficulty in supporting the validity ofthis328section.   It is surprising how in the same statute the	 twosections came to be worded differently.For  reasons stated above petition No. 95 of 1957  (Virendrav.  The	 State of Punjab) which	 impugns  the  Notificationsissued	under s. 2(1)(a) must be dismissed and petition	 No.96  of	1957  (K.  Narendra v. The State of  Pun  ab)  whichchallenges  s. 3 must be allowed.  In the  circumstances  ofthese  cases  we  make no order as to  the  costs  of  theseapplications.Petition No. 95 of 1957 dismissed.Petition No. 96 of 1957 allowed.