PETITIONER:WAMAN SHRINIWAS KINI	Vs.RESPONDENT:RATILAL BHAGWANDAS & CO.DATE OF JUDGMENT:16/02/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  689		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 217 CITATOR INFO : R	    1973 SC 921	 (10) D	    1985 SC 507	 (13) RF	    1986 SC1194	 (10) RF	    1987 SC 117	 (27) RF	    1991 SC 744	 (12)ACT:       Landlord	 and Tenant-Ejectment- Agreement of lease  allowing       sub-letting--Sub-letting	 prohibited  by	 statute-Landlord's       suit  for ejectment-Right of ejectment  under  statute-Equal       Participant in illegality-Plea of Waiver-Agreement to  waive       an illegality-Bombay Hotel and Lodging Houses Rates  Control       Act, 1947 (Bom. 57 of-1947), ss. 13(1)(e),15-Indian Contract       Act, 1872 (9 of 1872), s. 23.HEADNOTE:The  appellant was a tenant originally in the  old  buildingbut  after it was purchased by the respondent he vacated  itand  became  a	tenant	under  the  respondent	in  the	 newpremises.   In	the  old building  the	appellant  had	sub-tenants,  who  shifted to the new premises  along  with	 theappellant  when the latter occupied those premises.  One  ofthe  terms  of the lease which were contained  in  a  letterdated  June  7,	 1948,	written by  the	 respondent  to	 theappellant  provided: " In the shops in the old	chawl  whichare with you, you have kept sub-tenants.  We are  permittingyou  to keep sub-tenants in the same manner, in	 this  placealso." On April 20, 1949, the respondent brought a suit	 forejectment  against the appellant on the ground, inter  alia,that s. 15 of the Bombay Hotel and Lodging Houses Rates Con-trol Act, 1947, prohibited sub-letting and under s. 13(1)(e)of the Act the landlord has the right to evict the tenant onaccount	 of  sub-letting.  The appellant's defence  was	 (1)that s. 15 of the Act was confined to "any other law ", thatit  did	 not  apply to contracts between  the  landlord	 andtenant	and  therefore	it did	not  preclude  an  agreementbetween the parties as to sub-letting, (2) that the  partieswere in pari delicto and therefore the respondent could	 notsucceed, and (3) that the right of the respondent to sue forejectment  on  the ground of sub-letting  being	 a  personalright for his benefit, he must be taken to have waived it ashe  had allowed the appellant to sub-let and,  consequently,he could not evict him under s. 13(1)(e) of the Act.Held  : (1) that the non-obstante clause  "  Notwithstandinganything contained in any law " in s. 15 of the Bombay Hoteland  Lodging Rates Control Act, 1947, applies  to  contractsalso  as  they would fall under the provisions	of  the	 lawrelating to contracts;(2)  that the respondent was entitled to sue for  ejectment,though the agreement recognised sub-letting, as the suit wasbrought	 not  for the enforcement of the  agreement  but  toenforce the right of eviction which flowed directly from  aninfraction  of	the provisions of s. 15 of the Act  and	 forwhich the Act itself28218provided a remedy.  The section is based upon public policy,and  where public policy demands, even an equal	 participantin an illegality is allowed relief by way of restitution  orrescission, though not on the contract; and,(3)  that the plea of waiver which the appellant  relied  oncannot be sustained because as a result of giving effect  tothat plea the court would be enforcing an illegal  agreementand thus contravene the statutory provisions Of s. 15 Of theAct.  An agreement to waive an illegality is void on groundsof public policy and would be unenforceable.Case law reviewed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 674 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedAugust	10,  1955,  of	the  Bombay  High  Court  in  C.  R.Application  No. 1213 of 1953, arising out of  the  judgmentand  decree  dated April 25, 1953, of the  Assistant  Judge,Thana,	in  C. A. No. 97 of 1952, against the  judgment	 anddecree	dated  January 31, 1952, of the Court of  the  CivilJudge, J. D. Kalyan, in Suit No. 153 of 1949.Purshottam  Tricumdas, Rameshwar Nath and S. N. Andley,	 forthe appellant.H.   J. Umrigar, Ratnaparkhi Anant Govind and W.  P.	Oka,for the respondent.1959.  February 16.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyKAPUR,	J.-This	 is an appeal by special leave	against	 thejudgment of the High Court of Bombay confirming the order ofejectment passed by the Assistant Judge, Thana.	 The  tenantwho  was the defendant in the suit is the appellant and	 thelandlord who was the plaintiff is the respondent.The facts giving rise to this litigation shortly stated	 arethat  the appellant was a tenant for about 20 years  in	 thepremises  known	 as  " Fida Ali Villa  "  in  Kalyan.	Thisbuilding was purchased by the respondent who gave notice  tothe  appellant	to vacate, as he wanted to construct  a	 newbuilding  on  the site of the old building.   The  appellantagreed to vacate and the respondent let to him a portion  ofhis new building which219was riot far from " Fida Ali Villa ". The appellant had foursub-tenants, three of them also shifted to the new  premiseswhich were let to the appellant by the respondent.  Althoughit  was	 disputed,  the courts below have  found  that	theyoccupied  the same position qua the appellant.	The  4th,  aBohri, was fixed up by the  respondent in some	other place.There  was  some  dispute  as to the  date  when  these	 newpremises  were let to the appellant, the appellant  allegingthat they were let on July 1, 1948, and the respondent	thatthey  were let on June 1, 1948.	 The trial Court found	thatthey  were let on June 1, 1948.	 The terms of the lease	 arecontained in a document dated June 7,1948, which is a letterin  Marathi written by the respondent to the  appellant	 andcontains the following terms as to sub-tenancy:" In the shops in the old chawl which are with you you	havekept sub-tenants.  We are permitting you to keep sub-tenantsin the same manner, in this place also ".The  parties  were not agreed as to the correctness  of	 thetranslation  of this term.  The submission of the  appellantwas  that the word 'sub-tenant' should be in the plural	 andof  the	 respondent that it should be in  the  singular	 butwhether it is in the singular or plural it does not make anydifference to the principal argument advanced in this Court.On  January  3,	 1949, the respondent  gave  notice  to	 thedefendant to vacate the premises on the ground of nonpaymentof rent and sub-letting which it was alleged had resulted inthe termination of the tenancy.On  April  20,	1949,  the respondent  brought	a  suit	 forejectment  on  the ground of non-payment of  rent  and	sub-letting	 of the premises.  The defence of the appellant	 wasthat  under the terms of the lease he had the right to	sub-let  the  premises.  As to the claim on the ground  of	non-payment	 of rent be deposited the arrears of rent in  court.The trial Court held that subletting was lawful in spite  ofs. 15 of Bombay Hotel and Lodging Houses Rates Control	Act,1947 (Bom. 57 of 1947).	 He also held that the appellant didnot occupy the premises on the same terms and conditions  onwhich he occupied the old premises in " Fida Ali220Villa".	 He passed a decree for Rs. 445 on account  of	rentremaining  due	and  dismissed	the  respondent's  suit	 forejectment.  On appeal the Assistant Judge at Thana  reversedthe  decree  holding  that  s.	15  of	the  Act  completelyprohibited sub-letting and under  s. 13(1)(e) of the Act thelandlord  bad  the right to evict the tenant on	 account  ofsub-letting.   The  appellant then went in revision  to	 theHigh  Court  of	 Bombay,  but  it  affirmed  the  order	  ofejectment.  The appellant has come to this Court by  specialleave.Counsel	 for  the  appellant urged that	 there	was  no	 newtenancy after the coming into force of the Act and thereforess.  13(1)(e) and 15 of the Act did not apply; (2) that	 thetenant	had not sub-let the premises to the sub-tenants	 andthey were merely licensees of the landlord; (3) that no	 newsub-tenancy  had been created ; (4) that s. 15 was  confinedto  'any other law'; it did not apply to  contracts  betweenthe landlord and tenant and therefore it did not preclude anagreement  between the parties as to sub-letting;  (5)	thatthe parties were in pari delicto and therefore the plaintiff-respondent could not succeed.	He also raised a new  groundwhich  had  not been raised in the courts below	 or  in	 thegrounds of appeal or in the statement of case in this Court,that  the respondent had waived his right in regard  to	 theprohibition  against  sub-tenancy and the  provision  in  s.13(1)(e)  was for the protection of his rights which he	 wasentitled to waive.The courts below have held that the tenancy by the letter ofJune 7,1948, was a new tenancy and not a continuation of theold  and that the sub-tenants were tenants of the  appellantand  not  licensees of the respondent and in this  Court  noserious	 argument  was	addressed  on  these  points.	 Theprevious  tenancy was of a different building called I	FidaAli  Villa' which came to an end when the appellant  vacatedthose premises and entered into a new agreement of lease  inregard	to the premises in dispute.  There ",as	 no  privitybetween the respondent and the sub-tenants of the  appellantand   they  could  not	be  termed  his	 licensees.    Thesecontentions  are  without substance and	 have  rightly	beenrejected.221It  was then argued that under s. 15 of the Act there is  noprohibition  against  a contract of  sub-letting,  the	non-obstante  clause being confined to other laws.	The  sectionwhen quoted runs as follows:-" Notwithstanding anything contained in any law it shall notbe  lawful after the coming into operation of this  Act	 forany tenant to sub-let the whole or any part of the  premiseslet to him or to assign or transfer in any other manner	 hisinterest therein:Provided that the (State) Government may, by notification inthe  Official  Gazette, permit in any area the	transfer  ofinterest  in  premises held under such leases  or  class  ofleases	and  to	 such  extent as may  be  specified  in	 thenotification ".This  section prohibits sub-letting and makes  it  un-lawfulfor  a tenant to assign or to transfer his interest  in	 thepremises  let  to him.	The non-obstante clause	 would	meanthat even if any other law allowed subletting, e. g., s. 108of  the	 Transfer of Property Act,  the	 sub-letting  would,because of s. 15, be unlawful.	This would appy to contractsalso as all contracts would fall under the provisions of thelaw  relating  to  contracts,  i.  e.,	Contract  Act.	  Anagreement contrary to the provisions of that section (s. 15)would  be  unenforceable as being in  contravention  of	 theexpress	 provision of the Act which prohibits it. It is	 notpermissible to any person to rely upon a contract the makingof which the law prohibits (s. 23 of the Contract Act).Counsel	 for  the appellant contended that the view  of	 theBombay High Court in P. D. Aswani v. Kavashah Dinshah  Mulla(1) was erroneous and that the correct rule was laid down bythat  Court in Cooper V. Shiavax Cambatta (2).	That  was  acase  under s. 10 of Bombay Rents, Hotel Rates	and  LodgingHouses Rates (Control) Act (Bom.  VII of 1944) which in	 ex-press terms allowed sub-letting as follows :-"  Notwithstanding anything to the Contrary in any  law	 forthe time being in- force, a tenant may sublet any portion ofhis   premises	to  a  sub-tenant,  provided  be   forthwithintimates in writing to his landlord(1) (1953) 56 Bom.  L.R. 467.(2) A.I.R. 1949 Bom. 131.222the fact of his having so sub-let the premises and also	 therent at which they have been sub-let ".It  was contended that the non-obstante clauses in s. 10  ofAct  VII  of 1944 and of s. 15 of the Act being	 similar  inlanguage  must be similarly interpreted.   The	non-obstanteclause	has to be read in conjunction with the rest  of	 thesection.   Section  10	of the Act of  1944  permitted	sub-letting	 on  certain  conditions.   By	s.  9  of  that	 Actprovision  was made for a Contract between the landlord	 andthe tenant prohibiting sub-letting and in Cooper v.  ShiavaxCambatta  (1) the two provisions were reconciled  by  sayingthat,  a contract under s. 9 prevailed over  the  permissiongiven  by s. 10.  But s. 15 expressly  prohibits  sublettingand  therefore a contract to the contrary cannot  neutraliseits prohibitory effect.	 The non-obstante clause of the	 twosections,  s. 10 of the Act of 1944 and of s. 15 of the	 Acttherefore cannot be said to have the same effect.The  respondent's  suit for ejectment was brought  under  s.13(1)(e) which provides:"  Notwithstanding  anything  contained	 in  this  Act	(butsubject	 to the provisions of section 15), a landlord  shallbe  entitled  to recover possession of any premises  if	 theCourt is satisfied(e)  that the tenant has, since the coming into operation ofthis  Act,  sub-let  the whole or part of  the	premises  orassigned  or  transferred in any other manner  his  interesttherein ; ".It was contended that s. 13(1)(e) had to be read  separatelyand  not in conjunction with s. 15 of the Act.	The  sectionitself	makes  it  quite clear that it	is  subject  to	 theprovision  of s. 15 and the two sections must  therefore  beread  together.	  The  appellant  pleaded  that	 under	 theagreement between him and the' respondent he was entitled tosub-let the premises.  Such an agreement, in our opinion  isvoid because of the provisions of s. 15 of the Act and s. 23of  the Contract Act and enforcement of the agreement  wouldproduce the(1)  A.I.R. 1949 Bom. 131.very  result  which the law seeks to guard  against  and  toprevent	 and  by sustaining the plea of	 the  appellant	 theCourt  would be enforcing an agreement which  is  prohibitedand made illegal.The appellant relied on the maxim in pari delicto potior estconditio posidentis to support his plea that the  respondentcould  not enforce his right under s. 13 (1)(e).   But	thismaxim  "  must	not be understood as meaning  that  where  atransaction  is	 vitiated by illegality the person  left  inpossession  of goods after its completion is always  and  ofnecessity entitled to keep them.  Its true meaning is  that,where the circumstances are such that the Court will  refuseto  assist  either  party, the consequence  must,  in  fact,follow that the party in possession will not be disturbed ".(Per   Du  Parcq,  L.  J.,  in	Bowmakers  Ltd.	 v.   BarnetInstruments  Ltd. (1).	The respondent in the  present	casedid not call upon the Court to enforce any agreement at all.When  the  instrument of lease was executed  and  possessiongiven  and sub-letting done it received its full effect;  noaid   of  the  Court  was  required  to	 enforce  it.	 Therespondents'  suit  for ejectment was not  brought  for	 theenforcement  of the agreement which  recognised	 sub-lettingbut  he	 asked the Court to enforce the	 right	of  evictionwhich  flows directly from an infraction of a  provision  ofthe  Act  (s. 15) and for which the Act	 itself	 provides  aremedy.	  There is thus a manifest distinction between	thiscase  where  the plaintiff asked the Court to afford  him  aremedy against one who by contravening s. 15 of the Act	 hasmade  himself liable to eviction and those cases  where	 theCourt  was called upon to assist the plaintiff in  enforcingan  agreement the object of which was to do an illegal	act.The  respondent is only seeking to enforce his rights  underthe statute and the appellant cannot be permitted to  assertin a Court of justice any right founded upon or growing	 outof  an illegal transaction.  Gibbs &  Sterret  ManufacturingCo.  v.	 Brucker (2).  In our opinion s. 15 of	the  Act  isbased  on public policy and it has been hold that if  publicpolicy demands it even an equal participant in the(1) [1945] I K.B. 65, 72.(2) (1884) III U.S. 597; 28 L. Ed. 534.224illegality  is allowed relief by way of restitution of	res-cission, though not on the contract.It  was next contended that s. 13(1)(e) is a  provision	 forthe protection of private rights of the landlord and  unlessthere  is in the Act itself any provision to  the   contrarysuch  rights  as  far as they were personal  rights  may  beparted	with or renounced by the landlord.  In	other  wordsthe  right  of the respondent to sue for  ejectment  on	 theground of subletting being a personal right for his benefit,the  landlord  must  be taken to have waived  it  as  by  anexpress	 contract he had allowed the tenant to	sub-let	 andconsequently  he  could	 not evict the	appellant  under  s.13(1)(e) of the Act.The  plea  of waiver was taken for the first  time  in	thisCourt  in arguments.  Waiver is not a pure question  of	 lawbut  it is a mixed question of law and fact.  This plea	 wasneither	 raised	 nor  considered by  the  courts  below	 andtherefore ought not to be allowed to be taken at this  stageof  the	 proceedings.  But it was argued on  behalf  of	 theappellant  that according to the law of India the duty of  apleader is to set up the facts upon which he relied and	 notany legal inference to be drawn from them and as he had	 setup all the circumstances from which the plea of waiver couldbe  inferred lie should be allowed to raise and argue it  atthis  stage  even  though  it had not  been  raised  at	 anyprevious  stage not even in the statement of case  filed  inthis Court and he relied upon Gouri Dutt Ganesh Lal Firm  v.Madho Prasad (1).  Assuming that to be so and proceeding  onthe  facts found in this case the plea of waiver  cannot  beraised because as a result of giving effect to that plea theCourt  would  be  enforcing an illegal	agreement  and	thuscontravene the statutory provisions of s. 15 based on publicpolicy	and  produce  the  very	 result	 which	the  statuteprohibits  and makes illegal.  In Surajmull  Nargoremull  v.Triton Insurance Co. (2), Lord Sumner said:-"  No  Court  can  enforce as  valid  that  which  competentenactments  have  declared  shall  not	be  valid,  nor	  isobedience to such an enactment a thing from(1) A.I.R. 1943 P. C. 147.(2) (1924) L.R. 52 I. A. 126.225which  a  Court	 can  be dispensed by  the  consent  of	 theparties,  or by a failure to plead or to argue the point  atthe  outset: Nixon v. Albion Marine Insurance Co. (1).	 Theenactment is prohibitory.  It is not confined to affording aparty  a protection of which he may avail himself or not  ashe  pleases.  It is not framed solely for the protection  ofthe revenue and to be enforced solely at the instance of therevenue	 officials, nor is the prohibition limited to  casesfor which a penalty is exigibleIn the instant case the question is not merely of waiver  ofstatutory  rights enacted for the benefit of  an  individualbut whether the Court would aid the appellant in enforcing aterm of the agreement which s. 15 of the Act declares to  beillegal.  By enforcing the contract the consequence will  bethe  enforcement  of  an  illegality  and  infraction  of  astatutory provision which cannot be condoned by any  conductor agreement of parties.  Dhanukudhari Singh v. Nathima Sahu(2).  In Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. 92, at p. 1068, the lawas to waiver is stated as follows:-"............  a waiver in derogation of a  statutory  rightis- not favoured, and a waiver will be inoperative and void,if it infringes on the rights of others, or would be againstpublic policy or morals............... In Bowmakers  Limitedv. Barnet Instruments Ltd. (3) the same rule was laid  down.Mulla in his Contract Act at page 198 has stated the law  asto waiver of an illegality as follows:-"  Agreements which seek to waive an illegality are void  ongrounds	 of public policy.  Whenever an illegality  appears,whether	 from the evidence given by one side or	 the  other,the  disclosure is fatal to the case.  A stipulation of	 thestrongest form to waive the objection would be tainted	withthe  vice  of the original contract and void  for  the	samereasons.  Wherever the contamination reaches, it destroys ".This, in our opinion, is a correct statement of the law	 andis supported by high authority.	 Field, J., in(1) (1867) L.R. 2 Ex. 338.  (2) (1907) 11 C. W. N. 848, 852.(3)  [1945] 1 X.B. 65, 72.29226Oscanyan v. Winchester Arms Company (1) quoted with approvalthe observation of Swayne, J., in Hall v. coppell (2)-"  The	principle  is indispensable to	the  purity  of	 itsadministration.	  It will not enforce what it has  forbiddenand denounced.	The maxim Ex dolo malo non oritur actio,  islimited	 by no such qualification.  The proposition  to	 thecontrary strikes us as hardly worthy of serious	 refutation.Wherever the illegality appears, whether the evidence  comesfrom  one side or the other, the disclosure is fatal to	 thecase.	No  consent  of the  defendant	can  neutralise	 itseffect.	 A stipulation in the most solemn form, to waive theobjection,  would be tainted with the vice of  the  originalcontract,  and	void  for the same  reasons.   Wherever	 thecontamination reaches, it destroys ".Waiver	is  the	 abandonment  of  a  right  which   normallyeverybody  is  at  liberty to waive.  A	 waiver	 is  nothingunless	it amounts to a release.  It signifies nothing	morethan  an intention not to insist upon the right.  It may  bededuced	 from  acquiescence or may be  implied.	  Chitty  onContract,  21st	 Ed., p. 381 : Stackhouse v.  Barnston	(3).But  an agreement to waive an illegality is void on  groundsof  public  policy and would be unenforceable.In Mytton v.  Gilbert(4) Ashurst, J., said:-"  Besides, there is still further reason why  the  trusteesshould	not  be	 estopped  ; for this is  a  public  Act  ofParliament, and the Courts are bound to take notice that thetrustees  under this Act had no power to mortgage the  toll-houses.	  This	deed  therefore	 cannot	 operate  in  directopposition  to	an Act of Parliament,  which  negatives	 theestoppel ".Vaughan	 Williams, L. J., in Norwich Corporation v.  NorwichElectric Tramways Company(5) said :-"  The case is not like that of a provision in an  agreementwhich is for the benefit of one of the parties and which  hemay  waive.   This is a provision in an Act  of	 Parliament,which, though to some extent(1) (1881 103 U.S. 261 ; 26 L. Ed. 539.	 (2) 7 Wallace 542.(3) (1805) 10 Ves. 453; 32 E.R. 921.(4) (1787) 2 T.R. 171 ; 100 E.R. 91.  (5) [1906] 2 K.B. 119,124.227it may be for the benefit of the parties to the	 difference,must  be regarded as inserted in the interest of the  publicalsoIn  that case there was a provision made by the	 Legislaturethat disputes mentioned in the section of the Act were to bedetermined by an Expert nominated by the Board of Trade	 andit  was	 contended that though not in the  strict  technicalsense estoppel, it was a waiver of the provisions introducedinto  the  Statute for the benefit of  private	rights.	  Nodoubt  that  was  a case which proceeded on  a	question  ofjurisdiction but the judgment proceeded on the principle  ofwaiver of a statutory provision inserted in public interest.Thus the plea of waiver is unsustainable.In our opinion, therefore, the judgment of the High Court issound and the appeal must therefore be dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.