PETITIONER:THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN AND ORS.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THAKUR PRATAP SINGH.DATE OF JUDGMENT:18/08/1960BENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALABENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALADAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1208 CITATOR INFO : NF	    1976 SC 490	 (182)ACT:Discrimination	on grounds of caste and	 religion-Governmentnotification exempting Harijans and Muslims from payment  ofadditional police cost-Validity-Constitution of India,	Art.15(1)-Police Act, 1861 (V of 1861), s. 15.HEADNOTE:By para 4 of a notification issued under s. 15 of the PoliceAct the Rajasthan Government exempted the Harijan and Musliminhabitants of certain villages from payment of the cost  ofadditional police force stationed therein.  The notificationwas challenged as being violative of the guarantee containedin Art. 15(i) of the Constitution of India.Held,	that   since  para  4  of   the	  notification	 haddiscriminated  against	the  law-abiding  members  of  othercommunities and in favour of the Muslims and Harijans on thegrounds	 of caste and religion, it was directly hit  by	 theprovision of Art. 15(i) of the Constitution and as such mustbe declared to be invalid.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 231 of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 11, 1953,of the Rajasthan High Court (Jaipur Bench) at Jaipur in WritApplication No. 141 of 1952.M. S. K. Sastri and T. M. Sen, for the appellants.The respondent did not appear.1960.	August 18.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyRAJAGOPALA AYYANGAR, J.-This appeal raises for considerationthe   constitutional   validity	 of  one  paragraph   of   anotification issued by the State of Rajasthan under s. 15 ofthe Police Act, 1861 (V of 1861), under which " the  Harijan"  and " Muslim " inhabitants of the villages, in  which  anadditional  police force was stationed, were  exempted	fromthe  obligation	 to  bear any portion of the  cost  of	thatforce.It is stated that the inhabitants of certain villages223in  the	 district of Jhunjhunu in the  State  of  Rajasthan,harboured dacoits and receivers of stolen property, and werebesides creating trouble between landlords and tenants as  aresult of which there were serious riots in the locality  inthe  course  of which some persons lost	 their	lives.	 TheState  Government therefore took action under s. 15  of	 thePolice Act.  This Section provides :      " Quartering of additional police in disturbed ordangerous districts-(1)  It	 shall	be  lawful  for	 the  State  Government,  byproclamation to be notified in the official Gazette, and  insuch  other manner as the State Government shall direct,  todeclare	 that  any area subject to its	authority  has	beenfound to be in a disturbed or dangerous state, or that, fromthe conduct of the inhabitants of such area, or of any classor  section of them, it is expedient to increase the  numberof police.(2)  It shall thereupon be lawful for the  Inspector-Generalof  Police,  or	 other	officer	 authorised  by	 the   StateGovernment  in this behalf, with the sanction of  the  StateGovernment,  to employ any police-force in addition  to	 theordinary  fixed	 complement  to be quartered  in  the  areasspecified in such proclamationas aforesaid.(3)  Subject  to the provisions of sub-section (5)  of	thissection,  the cost of such additional police-force shall  beborne  by  the	inhabitants of such area  described  in	 theproclamation.(4) The Magistrate of the district, after such enquiry as hemay  deem  necessary, shall apportion such  cost  among	 theinhabitants  who are, as aforesaid, liable to bear the	sameand  who  shall	 not  have  been  exempted  under  the	nextsucceeding  sub-section.  Such apportionment shall  be	madeaccording  to  the Magistrate's judgment of  the  respectivemeans within such area of such inhabitants.(5) It shall be lawful for the State Government by order  toexempt	any persons or class or section of such	 inhabitantsfrom liability to bear any portion of such cost."Sub-section (6) is omitted as not relevant.224The notification by which these provisions were invoked	 andwhich is impugned in these proceedings was in these terms:-     "	Whereas	 the Rajpramukh is satisfied that  the	areashown in the schedule annexed hereto has been found to be ina disturbed and dangerous state;Now,  therefore, in the exercise of the authority vested  inhim  under Section 15(1) of the Police Act (V of 1861),	 theRajpramukh  is	pleased	 to declare  that  the	24  villagesincluded  in  the  said	 schedule  shall  be  deemed  to  bedisturbed  area for a period of six months from the date  ofthis notification.Under sub-section 2 of the said section 15 of the Police Act(V  of	1861), the Rajpramukh is pleased  to  authorise	 theInspector-General  of Police to employ, at the cost  of	 theinhabitants of the said area any Police force in addition tothe ordinary fixed complement quartered therein.Under  sub-section  5  of section 15 of	 the  said  Act	 theRajpramukh  is	further pleased to exempt  the	Harijan	 andMuslim inhabitants of these villages from liability to	bearany  portion  of the cost on account of the posting  of	 theadditional Police force."     Then followed the names of the 24 villages.     The respondent-Thakur Pratap Singh being an  inhabitantof  Baragaon-one of these 24 villages, moved the High  Courtof Rajasthan for the issue of a writ or direction under Act.226  of the Constitution impugning the validity of s. 15  ofthe Police Act and in particular of sub-s. 5 thereof and  ofthe  notification and praying for appropriate reliefs.	 TheHigh  Court repelled the wider contentions  urged  regardingthe invalidity of s. 15 of the Police Act in general as alsoof the powers conferred on the State Government to order theexemption  of  " any person or classes or sections  of	suchinhabitants  "	from  liability	 to bear  the  cost  of	 theadditional  police force.  But the learned Judges hold	thatPara  4	 of the notification which exempted  "	Harijan	 andMuslim	inhabitants  of the villages " from  the  levy,	 wasviolative of the guarantee in Art. 15(1) of the Constitutionagainst	 discrimination on the ground of caste	or  religionetc. which reads.225     " The State shall not discriminate against any  citizenon  grounds  only of religion, race, caste,  sex,  place  ofbirth	or   any   of  them."  and   struck   it   down	  asunconstitutional.The  State  of Rajasthan who felt aggrieved  by	 this  orderapplied	 to  the  High Court for a  certificate	 under	Art.132(1) to enable it to file an appeal to this court and thishaving been granted, the appeal is now before us.Learned	 Counsel  for the State made a strenuous  effort  toshow that the exemption of the Harijan & Muslim	 inhabitantsof  the	 villages, was, in the	impugned  notification,	 notbased  " only " on the ground of 'caste or religion' or	 theother criteria set out in Art. 15(1), but on the ground thatpersons belonging to these two communities were found by theState  not  to	have  been  guilty  of	the  conduct   whichnecessitated the stationing of the additional police  force.It was the same argument as was addressed to the High  Courtand was rejected by the learned Judges who observed :	 "  Now	 this is a very strange argument  that	onlypersons	 of  a certain community or caste  were	 law-abidingcitizens,  while the members of other communities were	not.Disturbing  elements  may  be found  among  members  of	 anycommunity  or  religion just as much as there may  be  sanerelements among members of that community or religion."The  view  here expressed by the learned Judges is,  in	 ouropinion,  correct.   Even  if it be that  the  bulk  of	 themembers of the communities exempted or even all of them werelaw-abiding,  it  was not contended on behalf of  the  Statethat there were no peaceful and law-abiding persons in these24  villages belonging to the other communities on whom	 thepunitive levy had been directed to be made.  In para 5(f) ofthe petition filed before the High Court the respondent	 hadaverred :	 " That the aforesaid Notification is ultra vires ofthe  Constitution of India as it discriminates	amongst	 theCitizens  of  a village on the basis of	 religion,  race  orcaste, in as much as it makes a distinction between	 29226persons	 professing the Mohammadan religion and	 others	 andalso  between persons who are Muslims and Harijans by  casteand the rest.  It, therefore, contravenes the provisions  ofArticle 15 of the Constitution of India."The answer to this by the State was in these terms:	   "  The  Harijan and Muslim inhabitants  of  thesevillages  have	been  exempted from liability  to  bear	 anyportion	 of the cost of the additional force not because  oftheir religion, race or caste but because they were found tobe peace-loving and law-abiding citizens, in the 24 villagesadditional force has been posted."It would be seen that it is not the case of the State,	evenat  the	 stage of the petition before the  High	 Court	thatthere were no persons belonging to the other communities whowere peace-loving and law-abiding, though it might very wellbe,  that according to the State, a great majority of  theseother  communities were inclined the other way.	 If  so,  itfollows that the notification has discriminated against	 thelaw-abiding  members of the other communities and in  favourof the Muslim and Harijan communities, (assuming that  everyone of them was "peace-loving and law-abiding") on the basisonly  of  "  caste " or "religion ".  If  there	 were  othergrounds they ought to have been stated in the  notification.It  is plain that the notification is directly	contrary  tothe terms of Art. 15(1) and that para 4 of the	notificationhas incurred condemnation as violating a specific  constitu-tional	prohibition.  In our opinion, the learned Judges  ofthe  High  Court were clearly right in	striking  down	thisparagraph of the notification.The  appeal fails and is dismissed.  As the  respondent	 hasnot appeared there will be no order as to costs.			       Appeal dismissed.227