PETITIONER:AMARSINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:CUSTODIAN, EVACUEE PROPERTY, PUNJABDATE OF JUDGMENT:29/03/1957BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDAKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  599		  1957 SCR  801ACT:Evacuee	  property-Allotment-Displaced	 land-holders-Quasi.permanent  allotment-Cancellation--Violation of	 FundamentalRights-Constitution of India, Arts.  19(1)(f), 31(1), 31(2)-Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950).HEADNOTE:The  petitioners, who were displaced persons  from  Pakistanowning	land therein, were also co-sharers in a joint  khataowned by some evacuees in a suburban village in East Punjab.On  their  displacement	 they were  in	the  first  instancetemporarily  allotted  agricultural land  in  that  village.Subsequently, as a result of the readjustment of  allotmentsof  the	 suburban land amongst the various  groups  who	 hadquasi-permanent allotments therein, which had to be  carriedout  according	to  certain  rules  and	 instructions,	 theallotments  of the petitioners were cancelled.	The case  ofthe  petitioners  was that the allotment to them  was  on  aquasi.	permanent  basis  and  that,  therefore,  they	 hadacquired  certain  rights  in  the  land  which	 constitutedproperty,  and they contended that the order cancelling	 theallotment  was in violation of their fundamental  rights  toproperty  under	 Arts.	 19(1)(f), 31(1) and  31(2)  of	 theConstitution   of  India.   Though  the	  petitioners	wereallottees  of  agricultural land on the basis  of  a  quasi-permanent allotment it was admitted that they were not	ableto  get	 a sanad under the rules for  the  lands  originallyallotted  to  them, when only they  could  obtain  permanentproperty  in  the  land.   It  was  not	 disputed  that	 thecancellation  of  the  allotment  was  under  the  purportedexercise   of	powers	 under	 the   provisions   of	 theAdministration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950, and the  rulesframed thereunder taken with some executive instructions.Held,  that the interest of a quasi-permanent allottee	doesnot  constitute	 'property'  within  the  meaning  of  Arts.19(1)(f),  31(1) or 31(2) of the Constitution of India,	 andaccordingly  the orders cancelling the allotments could	 notamount	to  violation  of  fundamental	rights	under  thoseArticles.The  basic  features of the interest  of  a  quasi-permanentallottee  are  that the ultimate ownership of  the  land  isstill recognised to be that of the evacuee and the allotmentitself	 is  liable  to	 resumption  or	 cancellation	withreference to the exigencies of the administration of evacueelaw.   The  interest  so recognised  is,  in  its  essentialconcept, provisional though with a view to stabilisation andultimate  permanence.  An interest in land owned by  anotherin  such  a situation cannot be fitted into any	 concept  ofproperty in itself,103802Julius v. Lord Bishop of Oxford, (1880) 5 A.C. 214,  distin-guished.Property in order that it may fall within the scope of	Art.9(1)(f)	 must  be  capable of being the	 subject  matter  of"acquisition  and disposal".  But the interest of  a  quasi-permanent allottee arises by statutory grant to a person  ofa specified class and is not capable of being acquired by anordinary  citizen  in any of the normal modes.	 Nor  is  itcapable of being disposed of by the allottee himself by	 wayof  sale,  mortgage,  gift  or	will.	Consequently,	Art.19(1)(f) cannot apply to the case.In  order  that Art. 31(1) may apply it is not	enough	thatthere  is deprivation, but such deprivation must be  withoutthe  authority	of  law.  In the  present  case	 the  quasi-permanent  allotments of the petitioners were  cancelled  inenforcement  of a right of resumption or cancellation  whichis  an incident of such property, and hence the Article	 hasnot been infringed.The interest of a quasi-permanent allottee cannot be broughtwithin	the  scope of Art. 3i(2) as it stood  prior  to	 theamendment.   The words "taking possession" or  "acquisition"there  are  inappropriate  in respect of  the  rights  whichconstitute quasi-permanent tenure.In  view  of the word "deemed" occurring in Art.  31(2A)  itappears likely that the amendment to Art. 31(2) was intendedto be retrospective, but even then the amended Article takenwith Art. 31(2A) is equally inapplicable as it	contemplatesacquisition  or requisitioning (and taking possession) as  aresult	of  transfer  of the ownership or of  the  right  topossession.Suraj  Parkash	Kapur  v. The State of	Punjab,	 (1957)	 LIXP.L.R.	103,  in so far as it purported to decide  that	 theinterest in the land allotted to a quasi-permanent  allotteeconstitutes  "property"	 which attracts	 the  protection  offundamental rights under the Constitution, is disapproved.Though a quasi-permanant allotment does not carry with it  afundamental  right to property under the  Constitution,	 therights of the allottee as recognised in the statutory  rulesare  important	and  constitute the  essential	basis  of  asatisfactory  rehabilitation  and  settlement  of  displacedland-holders.	Until such time as the	land-holders  obtainsanads	to the lands, these rights are entitled	 to  zealousprotection  of	the  constituted  authorities  according  toadministrative rules and instructions binding on them and ofthe  courts  by	 appropriate  proceedings  where  there	  isusurpation of jurisdiction or abuse of exercise of statutorypowers.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 351 of 1954.Petition  under	 Article  32 of	 the  Constitution  for	 theenforcement of fundamental rights.803N.   S.	 Bindra, Udhai Bhan Choudhury and Gopal ,Singh,	 forthe petitioners.S. L. Pandhi and K. L. Mehta, for the Intervener.1957.  March 29.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byJAGANNADHADAS J.-This is an application under Art. 32 of theConstitution by the petitioners, Amar Singh and four others,in   the  following  circumstances.   All  these  five	 aredisplaced persons who owned land in the non-suburban villageof Chak.  No. 159-RB, Tahsil Jaranwala, District Lyallpur inPakistan.  They were also co-sharers in a joint khata  ownedby some evacuees in village Sultanwind, a suburb of Amritsarin  East  Punjab.  On their displacement, they were  in	 thefirst  instance	 temporarily allotted agricultural  land  inSultanwind.  Having regard to their original position in thevillage, they were. allotted in the year 1949 a, total	areaof  38	standard acres and 13 units  of	 agricultural  land.therein.   This	 allotment  had to be  disturbed  under	 thefollowing circumstances.  The Director-General of Relief andRehabilitation	(Additional Custodian) directed by an  orderdated January 7, 1950, that out of the 1,263 standard  acresand  1 3/4 units of suburban land of Amritsar, 142  standardacres  and  5  units were to be	 allotted  to  allottees  ofProvincial  Gardens.   This  necessitated  readjustment	  ofallotments  of the suburban land of Sultanwind	amongst	 thevarious	 groups who had quasi-permanent	 allotment  therein.As a result of this readjustment which had to be carried outaccording  to certain rules and instructions, the  allotmentof  these  five	 petitioners (as also of  some	others)	 wasproposed  for  cancellation  by	 the  order  of	 the  DeputyCustodian, Amritsar, dated July 31, 1951.  This proposal wasapproved  by the Custodian (Financial  Commissioner,  Reliefand  Rehabilitation) on February 6, 1952, and the  allotmentwas  cancelled.	 The proposal and the order of	cancellationare  said  to  have  been  passed  without  notice  to	 thepetitioners.	Being  aggrieved  thereby  they	 moved	 theCustodian-General  of Evacuee Property for revision  thereofunder s. 27 of the Administration of Evacuee804Property  Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950).  This was dealt with  bythe  Deputy  Custodian-General who dismissed the same  by  afairly elaborate order dated May 1, 1954, after hearing	 theparties.  The petitioners have come up to this Court by thisapplication under Art. 32 of the Constitution.The  case of the petitioners is that the allotment  to	themwas on quasi-permanent basis and that, therefore, they	haveacquired  certain  rights  in  the  lands  which  constitute'property'.   They  urge  that the order  of  the  Custodiancancelling  the allotment and that of the Deputy  Custodian-General	 affirming  the	 same  are  in	violation  of  theirfundamental  rights to property under Arts. 19 (1)  (f),  31(1)  and  31  (2) of  the  Constitution.   They	 accordinglycontend that they are entitled to have these orders  quashedand  their rights to property declared and protected.	Thatthe  petitioners are allottees of agricultural land  on	 thebasis  of  what	 has come to  be  known	 as  quasi-permanentallotment  is  not disputed.  It is also not  disputed	thatcancellation  thereof  was under the purported	exercise  ofpowers	vested in the Custodian under certain provisions  ofthe  Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950  (XXXI  of1950)  and  the	 rules framed  thereunder  taken  with	someexecutive  instructions.  It may be mentioned that the	term"quasi-permanent  allotment" appears to be a term which	 hascome into vogue in later statutory rules and has at no	timebeen  specifically  defined,  though it appears	 to  be	 nowfairly well-understood.	 The two substantial questions	thatarise,	therefore,  for consideration are  (1)	whether	 therights	of  a quasi-permanent allottee	constitute  propertywithin	the meaning of the articles above referred  to,	 and(2)   whether  the  orders  of	the  Custodian	and   DeputyCustodian-General  cancelling the quasi-permanent  allotmentamount	to violation of fundamental rights  contemplated  bythe  above articles.  Both these questions require a  reviewof  the Evacuee Property Law in so far as it relates to	 theallotment of agricultural lands of the evacuees to displacedland-holders  and an appreciation of 'the background of	 thecircumstances that necessitated it.805The  Declaration of Independence and the partition of  Indiainto Pakistan and India on August 15, 1947, was	 accompaniedby  mass migrations of Non-Muslims from West Punjab to	EastPunjab	and  of Muslims from, East Punjab  to  West  Punjab.These  mass  migrations were on a stupendous  scale.   Aboutfive  million persons are said to have moved from each	sideto  the other.	This was done in a state of panic  generatedby  communal riots.  Migrants from West Punjab reached	EastPunjab	almost	destitute.   This  unprecedented   situationbrought	 in  its train gigantic problems  of  administrationrelating  to rehabilitation resettlement of  these  persons.One  of	 such problems was that	 relating  to  agricultural,immovable proerty, left on either side by the migrants.	 Forpurposes  of convenience persons who crossed over from	EastPunjab	to  West  Punjab are referred  to  as  evacuees	 andpersons	 who came over from West Punjab to East	 Punjab	 arereferred  to as displaced -persons.  The  displaced  personsare  said  to have left in Pakistan lands of the  extent  ofabout 67 lakh acres.  The evacuees seem to have left in EastPunjab	and  Pepsu,  lands of the extent of  about  47	lakhacres.	 This  meant  a deficit of over 20  lakh  acres	 forresettlement.It  would  appear  that in the	earlier	 stages	 there	wereattempts  to settle the question by way of mutual  exchangeseither	individually  or at the governmental  level  and  bymeans  of  inter-dominion  conferences	between	 India	 andPakistan.   But	 for  one reason or  other,  these  attemptsappear to have failed.	The various steps and administrativemeasures   taken  to  settle,  the  displaced	agriculturalpopulation who came over from West Punjab, on the  hurriedlyabandoned lands of the evacuees from East Punjab, are to  befound  described  in the Land Resettlement  Manual  by	ShriTarlok	Singh  who was the Director-General  of	 Relief	 andRehabilitation (hereinafter referred to as the	ResettlementManual).  In Dunichand Hakim v. Deputy COMMISSIONER  (DeputyCustodian, Evacuee Property), Karnal (1), this book has beenreferred to by this Court as having the stamp of  authority.It can be usefully referred to not(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 578.806necessarily  as an authority for every statement of fact  orlaw  contained	therein	 but as a guide	 to  appreciate	 thebackground  of the problems which the administration had  toface in that unprecedented situation, how the administrationattempted  to  solve  the  same, what  were  the  rules	 andpractice  which	 the administration  normally  followed	 andconsidered  binding on itself, and what ideas  inspired	 thecourse of legislation in this behalf.  It appears  therefromthat within about a month after the partition of India,	 theGovernment  had	 to  take an  emergency	 decision  to  allotevacuee	 lands to groups of displaced persons  on  temporarybasis.	 But  this was found not to  satisfy  the  displacedlandholders.   There was' insistent pressure from  them	 forsuch  allotment as would enable them to settle on the  landsof  the	 evacuees  on a permanent basis.  This	led  to	 theabandonment  of the policy of temporary allotments  and	 theintroduction of a system of allotment which came to be knownas quasi-permanent allotment.  This policy was announced  bythe Government of East Punjab in its Press Communique  datedFebruary 7, 1948, which is reproduced at pages 28 and 29  ofthe Resettlement Manual.  The following extract therefrom isinstructive:" The East Punjab Government propose to replace the  presentsystem	of  temporary allotments of evacuee lands by  a	 newsystem of allotments which will take account of the holdingsof  evacuees  in West Punjab.  The new allotments  will	 notconfer	rights of ownership or permanent occupancy, but	 thepossession  of	allottees  will be  maintained.	  Claims  ofallottees  will be dealt with in accordance  with  decisionsreached	 eventually  regarding	the  treatment	of   evacueeproperty.In the new scheme of allotments, land will be allotted	onlyto those who, in West Punjab, were owners, occupancy tenantsunder  the  Punjab  Tenancy  Act,  and	tenants	 under	 theColonization  of Government Lands Act and to  certain  otherclasses of grantees and holders of land in West Punjab to bespecified  by Government.  It is proposed to give  to  smallholders allotments of equivalent areas, while in the case oflarger holders there will be graded cuts.  The definition807of the " Small Holders " and the details of the graded	cutswill  be determined when detailed information regarding	 theavailable  areas in East Punjab and the East Punjab  States,the  areas  held  by the population to be  settled  in	EastPunjab	and  the  East Punjab  States,	and  other  relevantinformation becomes available.It  is intended to complete the new system of allotments  inEast  Punjab and the East Punjab States, not later than	 the31st  May,  1948.   Government	are,  however,	anxious	  tointroduce  the	new scheme as early as may be  feasible	 andsteps to this end will be taken at once.Arrangements  for collecting complete information  regardingthe land available for allotment in East Punjab and the EastPunjab States and the land abandoned by individual  evacueeswill be taken in hand without delay and it is hoped also  tomake  arrangements  on a reciprocal basis to  secure  infor-mation from records of rights in West Punjab.To ensure accurate information an Ordinance will shortly  bepromulgated  prescribing  punishment for  false	 informationregarding claims to land and action by way of forfeiture andotherwise   in	 respect  of  allotments  taken	  on   falseinformation.  Claims to land will be invited on a form to beprescribed by Government.Until  the new system of allotments can be introduced,	the,present	 system of allotments will continue  and  allotmentsmade to the present holders will be maintained subject to  acomplete  scrutiny of existing allotments,  cancellation  ofunauthorised  and excessive allotments,	 dispossession	fromillicit	 occupation  and such other adjustments	 as  may  benecessary  including  adjustments in the unit  of  allotmentdecided upon by Government."To  facilitate	the  process  of  resettling  the  displacedpersons	 on  evacuated land on this new basis  of  allotmentvarious	 steps	became	necessary.   They  are	roughly	 thefollowing.1.   Registration and verification of land claims.2.   Assessment and valuation of such claims,8083.   Classification of the villages and of lands of evacueesavailable for allotment.4.   Allocation	  of  the  claims  to  various	areas	withreference to such classification.5.   Allotment of lands to individuals with reference to thevaluation of their claims, guided by various considerations,priorities and preferences and so forthadministratively determined.The  basic idea which inspired and regulated these  measureswas that the displaced landholder is to be allotted (subjectto  graded cuts) such lands out of the evacuee	agriculturalland  which,  in  its extent,  quality	and  other  relevantfeatures,  bear some reasonable relation and  correspondenceto  the lands left by him in West Punjab.  All	these  stepsinvolved very elaborate administrative measures as indicatedabove.	 We  are  concerned in this  context  to  trace	 thelegislation  which brought about these steps and to  examinewhether	 and  to  what extent  such  legislation  recognisedproperty  rights in the displaced land-holders.	 But  beforetracing	 the  legislative measures which brought  about	 thequasi-permanent	 allotments  of evacuee lands in  favour  ofdisplaced   land-holders  from	West  Punjab,  it  will	  beconvenient to have a brief survey of the present law in	 itsapplication  to administration of evacuee property  of*	 allkinds in general with the history of such of the  provisionstherein as are relevant for our purpose and then to considerthe  relevant legislative measures taken  specifically	withreference to agricultural land.The earliest legislative measure in this behalf is the	EastPunjab	Evacuees'  (Administration of  Property)  Ordinance,1947, (E.P. Ordinance IV of 1947) dated September 14,  1947,which was a simple measure defining the terms I evacuee',  Ievacuee property', and I Custodian of evacuee property'	 andother terms, and authorising the appointment of a Custodian.It  gave the Custodian power to take possession	 of  evacueeproperty  and to take all measures necessary  and  expedientfor  preserving such property.	It vested in  him  extensivepowers of management thereof.  This was an emergency measurewhich appears to have809been  meant to get possession of the properties as  a  care-taker.	 This  was superseded and followed by  a  series  oflegislative measures which underwent modifications from timeto  time.   These  legislative measures were  in  the  firstinstance    Provincial,	  viz.,	  East	 Punjab	   Evacuees'(Administration	 of Property) Act, 1947 (E.P. XIV of  1947);East  Punjab Evacuees' (Administration of Property)  (SecondAmendment)  Ordinance,	1948 (E.P. Ordinance XVI  of  1948);East  Punjab  Evacuees'(Administration of  Property)  SecondAmendment)  Act, 1948 (E.P. XLIX of 1948); and	East  PunjabEvacuee	 Property  (Administration)  Ordinance,	 1949  (E.P.Ordinance  IX  of  1949).  These  Provincial  measures	wererepealed  and  superseded  by  Central	legislation,   viz.,Administration	 of   Evacuee	Property   Ordinance,	1949(Ordinance  XXVII of 1949) amended by the Administration  ofEvacuee	 Property (Amendment) Ordinance, 1950 (Ordinance  IVof  1950).   These  were  repealed  and	 superseded  by	 theAdministration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950).The main provisions of Central Act XXXI of 1950, which, withsome  modifications,  is  at present in force,	may  now  benoticed	 so far as they are relevant.  Under ss. 5 and 6  ofthe   Act   an	administrative	 machinery   consisting	  ofCustodians,  Additional, Deputy and Assistant Custodians  ofEvacuee	 Property,  is set up for each State  by  the  StateGovernment   thereof.	 They	are   under   the    generalsuperintendence and control of a Custodian-General appointedby  the	 Central-Government  who has,  for  his	 assistance,Deputy	and  Assistant	Custodian-Generals,  who  are	alsoappointed  by the Central Government.  The terms 1  evacuee'and " evacuee property' are defined in s. 2 (d) and (f)	 andthe Custodian is given power to determine and notify evacueeproperty  under	 s.  7. All property  declared	as  'evacueeproperty'  becomes vested in the Custodian under s.  8.	 TheCustodian has under s. 9 the power to take possession of allthe  'evacuee  property'  so  vested  in  him.	 Section  10enumerates the powers and104810duties	of the Custodian generally and declares that he	 maytake  such measures as he considers necessary  or  expedientfor the purposes of securing, administering, preserving	 andmanaging any evacuee property and generally for the purposesof  enabling  him  satisfactorily to discharge	any  of	 theduties imposed on him by or under the Act, and may, for	 anysuch  purpose  as  afore said, do all  acts  and  incur	 allexpenses necessary or incidental thereto.  One of the dutieslaid  on the Custodian is the maintenance of accounts  unders.  15.	  Section  15  (1) says	 that  the  Custodian  shallmaintain a separate account of the property of such evacuee,possession whereof has been taken by him, and shall cause tobe  made therein entries of all receipts and expenditure  inrespect	 thereof.   Section 16 provides for  restoration  ofproperty  to the evacuee on his application and enjoins	 theCustodian to furnish the evacuee on demand with a  statementcontaining an abstract of the account of the income receivedand  expenditure incurred in respect of the  property.	 Thegeneral	 powers of management vested in the Custodian  unders. 10 enable him to grant leases and make allotments out  ofevacuee	 property in favour of displaced landholders.	Thisis  subject  to the power vested in him under s. 12  (1)  tovary  or  cancel leases or allotments of  evacuee  property.There  are  a  number of other	substantive  and  incidentalprovinsions  which  it is unnecessary to refer	to  for	 thepurposes of this petition.  Thus, the 'broad features of theadministration	of evacuee property law, as  indicated	fromthe provisions above noticed, are the following :1.   All evacuee property is vested in the Custodian.2.   He	  has  the  duty  of  managing	the   property	 andmaintaining  accounts  for  such management  and  has  largeadministrative powers.3.   As	 incidental to such management he can  grant  leasesand make allotments.4.   He	 has  the  power  to  vary  or	cancel	leases	 andallotments.8115.   The  evacuee can come forward and apply for  return  ofthe  evacuee  property	and such property is  liable  to  berestored to him.6.   The  Custodian, presumably on such restoration, has  tofurnish to the evacuee on demand, a statement containing  anabstract   of  the  account  of	 the  income  received	 andexpenditure incurred in respect of the property.In  addition  to  large	 administrative	 functions  for	 thepurposes of the Act, the Custodian has also the function  ofdeciding various matters of a quasi-judicial nature, such as(1)  whether  a	 person is an  evacuee	or  whether  certainproperty  is  evacuee property; (2) whether  a	transfer  ofevacuee property is or is not to be confirmed; (3) whether alease  or  an  allotment is or is not  to  be  cancelled  orvaried;	 and (4) whether property is to be restored  to	 thed so forth.  The actions of the Custodian and  hissubordinates in exercise of their administrative as well  asof'  quasi  judicial  functions are subject  to	 appeal	 andrevision by the higher authorities under the Act as providedunder  ss. 24 to 27.  Section 28 provides that	orders	madeunder  the  above sections shall be final and shall  not  becalled	in  question in any original  suit,  application  orexecution  proceeding.	Section 46 bars the jurisdiction  ofthe  civil or revenue courts in respect of any matter  whichthe  Custodian-General or the Custodian is empowered  by  orunder the Act to determine.The  history  of some of the above statutory  provisions  astraceable from the corresponding provisions ,of the  earlierlegislation  is significant.  The provision vesting  evacueeproperty  in  the Custodian was not enacted in	the  earlierEast Punjab Ordinance IV of 1947.  But it was enacted by thenext legislative measure, East Punjab Act XIV of 1947, whichdeclared the vesting of evacuee property, and provided	thatthe  property  " shall continue to be so  vested  until	 theProvincial Government by notification otherwise directs.   "This last clause was substituted in 1948 by an Amending Act,by  the	 clause	 "  until it is returned  to  the  owner  inaccordance with the provisions of812section	 12 This clause as to the duration of  such  vestingwas  omitted  in  the  later  Central  legislation  and	 wassubstituted  by the phrase " shall continue to so  vest.   "(See Central Ordinance XXVII of 1949 and Central Act XXXI of1950).	 The  earliest	provision  for	return	of   evacueeproperty  to the evacuee is in East Punjab Ordinance  IV  of1947.	Section	 12 thereof provided that the owner  of	 anyproperty in the possession or control of the Custodian shallbe  entitled to restoration thereof upon application to	 theCustodian  and on payment of excess, if any, of	 expenditureover  receipts from the management of such property  by	 theCustodian.  In East Punjab Act XIV of 1947 which  supersededthis  Ordinance, this right -of restoration to	the  evacueewas  qualified	by virtue of s. 12 (1) thereof which  is  asfollows: On  being  satisfied  that evacuees have  returned  or	 arereturning to the Province, the Provincial Government may  bynotification  in  the Official Gazette authorise  return  oftheir  immovable property to the owners in  accordance	withthis section.  "Sub-section  (2) of s. 12 provided that any person  claimingto be entitled to any such property may apply in writing  tothe Custodian who, after giving public notice and holding anenquiry,  will make a formal order declaring the  person  towhom  possession  of  the property  may	 be  delivered.	  InCentral	 Ordinance XXVII of 1949 and in Central Act XXXI  of1950,  the  provision  for restoration of  property  to	 theevacuee	 in  s.	 16 thereof is that the	 Custodian  may,  onapplication  by the evacuee or his heir, restore to him	 theproperty  subject  to such terms and conditions	 as  he	 maythink  fit to impose provided that the applicant produces  acertificate  from the Central Government that  the  propertymay be so restored if he is otherwise entitled to it.	Thusit  will  be  seen  that  while	 the  earliest	East  PunjabOrdinance of 1947 recognised almost an unrestricted right inthe  evacuee  to  obtain restoration of	 property  this	 waschanged	 shortly thereafter by the East Punjab Act  of	1947which  required that such return by the- Custodian can	onlyfollow a813notification  by the Provincial Government as to  its  being'satisfied that evacuees have returned or are returning	 andauthorising  the  return  of  the  property.   The   Centrallegislation of 1949 and of 1950 however lessened the  rigourof  it by requiring only a preliminary certificate from	 theCentral Government by the individual applicant concerned. Next, it may be noticed that neither East Punjab  OrdinanceIV of 1947 nor East Punjab Act XIV of 1947 which replaced itrefer  to or define either the word ,lease' or	'allotment'.These two words were for the first time defined only by	 theamending  East Punjab Ordinance XVI of 1948 and it was	madeclear therein that an allotment was different from a  lease.From  the historical background it would appear likely	thatthe  word allotment' was used for the grant of	property  todisplaced landholders while 'lease' was intended to denote atemporary grant to other displaced persons.  But even so thetemporary  character  of  the right' involved  in  the	word'allotment' was specified by defining allotment' as  meaningthe  grant by the Custodian of a temporary right of use	 andoccupation of evacuee property to any person otherwise	thanby way of lease.  This temporary character of the right	 wasreiterated  also in East Punjab Ordinance IX of 1949 and  inCentral Ordinance XXVII of 1949.  It is only in Central	 ActXXXI  of 1950 that by s. 2 (a) thereof the word	 'temporary'in  the	 definition of the word allotment' was	dropped	 andallotment' is defined as meaning the grant by a person	dulyauthorised  of a right of use or occupation of an  immovableevacuee property to any other person but does not include  agrant  by way of a lease.  Thus the legislation of 1950	 forthe first time contemplated that allotment may be  otherwisethan  temporary. -This Act as well as the  previous  Centralordinance  completely  omitted the definition  of  the	word'lease'.  These changes were apparently necessitated by	 thefact that, in between, Punjab Government notification  datedJuly  8,  1949, came into operation providing for  what	 hasbecome subsequently known as quasi-permanent allotment.814The  provisions	 of that notification and the  legal  effectthereof will be noticed in due course. We  may  next	trace the provisions  in  the  various	Actsrelating  to the power of cancellation of allotments  in  sofar as they appear from the body of the main Ordinances	 andActs themselves, leaving aside for the time being-the  rulesframed thereunder.  If may be mentioned that in the rest  ofthe judgment in noticing the statutory provisions which dealwith leases and allotments together, all reference to leasesare  omitted for the sake of simplification.   The  earliestprovision in this behalf is s. 9-A of East Punjab Act XIV of1947 which was inserted into it by East Punjab Ordinance XVIof  1948  replaced by East Punjab Act XLIX  of	1948.	Sub-section (2) of a. 9-A provides that notwithstanding anythingcontained in any enactment for the time being in force, 'theCustodian may cancel any allotment or amend the terms of anyagreement on which any evacuee property is held or  occupiedby  any	 person,  whether such agreement  was  entered	intobefore	or  after  the	coming into  force  of	East  PunjabOrdinance  XVI of 1948.	 It is further provided	 by  sub-ss.(3)  and  (4) thereof, that if a person is  in	unauthorisedpossession  of any evacuee property the Custodian may  treatsuch person either as a tenant or as a trespasser and that aperson	 treated  as  a	 trespasser,  on   cancellation	  ofallotment,  shall,  on demand, surrender possession  to	 theCustodian.  The subsequent East Punjab Ordinance IX of 1949,Central Ordinance XXVII of 1949 and Central Act XXXI of 1950contain	 substantially	the  same  provisions  relating	  tocancellation  of allotments.  It may be mentioned  that	 allthese  legislative measures had a section relating to  rule-making power right from the time. of East Punjab Act XIV  of1947 and also a provision that the provisions of the Act andthe rules made thereunder shall have effect  notwithstandinganything inconsistent therewith in any enactment other	thanthat  Act.  (See ss. 22 and 18-B of East Punjab Act  XIV  of1947 and ss. 55, 56 and 4 of' Central Act XXI of 1950).	  Byvirtue of this815rule making power, the Provincial Government and the CentralGovernment  made  rules	 from time to time,  which  will  benoticed presently. From the above history of alterations at short intervals Insome  of the main relevant provisions, it is clear that	 thelegislation  was  being	 adjusted from	time  to  time	withreference   to	the  exigencies	 and  difficulties  of	 thedifferent  problems which had to be grappled with,  both  inthe matter of internal administration as also on account  ofinter-dominion	conferences between Pakistan and India.	  Itmay be mentioned that during the two year period between thefirst  Provincial legislation in 1947 and the first  Centrallegislation in 1949 there were as many as six-inter dominionconferences,  i.e., in January 1948, April 1948, July  1948,December 1948, April 1949 and June 1949. Stopping  here	 it will be seen that the position,  in	 itsgeneral	 aspect, is that all evacuee property is  vested  inthe  Custodian.	 But the evacuee has not lost his  ownershipin it.	The law recognised his ultimate ownership subject tocertain	 limitations. the evacuee may come back	 and  obtainreturn of his property, as also an account of the managementthereof, by the Custodian.  Such return which was originallycontemplated   without	any  restriction,  is	subsequentlydependent on 'a notification or a certificate of the CentralGovernment.  Until such return the Custodian may manage	 theproperty  by  granting	allotments in  favour  of  displacedpersons.   The	nature	of an allotment is  clear  from	 itsdefinition  that  it  is  grant of  the	 right	of  use	 andoccupation.  This in the first instance was contemplated  asbeing  only temporary.	By a later definition, it  was	madewider  so  as not to be restricted to a	 temporary  use	 andoccupation.   But the allotment is clearly, subject  to	 thepower of cancellation thereof vested in the Custodian, whichwill entitle him to obtain its possession.  Such rules	wereundergoing  alterations	 from  time  to	 time.	 In  such  asituation it would prima facie be difficult to816recognise the allottee of any evacuee property, in so far ashis  position  is  governed by the main	 provisions  of	 theEvacuee	 Property  Administration Acts	(unaffected  by	 anyspecific  rules	 applicable  to	 any  particular  class	  ofproperty  or  any specific arrangement or  contract),  as  aperson	having some kind of property or having a  recognisedinterest therein which by itself constitutes 'property'.  Itis  more  in the nature of a licence which is liable  to  becancelled  by the grantor.  It may be mentioned	 that  thereappear	to  be	certain	 rules	made  by  the  East   PunjabGovernment  dated August 6, 1948, under East Punjab Act	 XIVof  1947  as  amended in 1948 relating	to  cancellation  ofallotments.   But the text-of these rules was not  availableto us.	However this may be, it is urged that certain  otherlegislative measures and statutory rules made in exercise ofthe statutory powers, have made a difference in the positionarising	 in  respect  of allotments  of	 agricultural  landsgranted	 in favour of displaced persons	 in East Punjab	 wholeft  landed  property in West Punjab.	 It  is,  therefore,necessary to review the same. The  first  measure for the resettlement of  the  displacedland-holders  of West Punjab on evacuee lands was, the	EastPunjab	Refugees  (Registration of Land	 Claims)  Ordinance,1948  (E.  P. Ordinance VII of 1948) which was	replaced  byEast Punjab Refugees (Registration of Land Claims) Act, 1948(E.   P.  XII  of 1948).  It is in pursuance  of  the  rulesframed under this Act that what is known as the Parcha claimand the form therefor were standardised calling for accurateinformation  as	 regards quite, a large	 number	 of  detailswhich had to be taken into consideration in determining	 theland  to be allotted to a displaced land-holder.   This	 wasfollowed  by  the  East	 Punjab	 Displaced  Persons   (.LandResettlement) Ordinance, 1949 (E.  P. Ordinance XIV of 1949)which  was  replaced by the East  Punjab  Displaced  Persons(Land Resettlement) Act, 1949 (E.  P. XXXVI of 1949).	ThisAct  was  meant " to provide for the  allotment	 of  evacueelands,	in  East  Punjab."  The	 right	of  an	allottee  topossession of the817land  allotted	subject	 to payment of rent,  etc.,  to	 theCustodian  or  his  right to a share in the  rent  from	 thepresent holder thereof (that is, the cultivating  occupant),if  any,  and other incidents arising from  such  possessionwere  specified	 in this Act.  In between  these  two  Acts,notification  No. 4892/s dated July 8, 1949, was  issued  bythe  Punjab Government in exercise of the rule-making  powervested in it under cls. (f) and (ff) of sub-s. (2) of s.  22of  East  Punjab Act XIV of 1947 as amended in	1948.	Thisnotification  sets out the statement of conditions on  whichthe Custodian could grant allotments of land vested in	him.This notification is virtually the charter of the rights  ofallottees.  It is the basis of what has come to be known  asthe quasi-permanent allotment.	In the rules set out in thisnotification  a I displaced person' is defined as I a  land-holder	in West Punjab etc.' and it is specified that  "  anallotment shall be made in favour of a displaced person	 andfor  a	period	for which the land  remains  vested  in	 theCustodian."  The word 'allottee' is defined as	including  "heirs,	legal representatives and lessees of the  allottee."It  may	 be  mentioned	in this	 context  that	East  PunjabDisplaced  Persons (Land Resettlement) Act, 1949,  mentionedabove,	which  was  passed shortly after  these	 rules	werenotified  also	defines the word I allottee' and  says	thatallottee means " a displaced person to whom land is allottedby  the Custodian under the conditions published  with	EastPunjab Government notification No. 4892/S dated July 8, 1949and  includes  his  heirs, legal  representatives  and	sub-lessees."  Thus the definitions of the word I allottee '  inthe  rules of July 8, 1949 and under the Act passed  shortlythereafter recognise not only that an allotment is to be  infavour of a displaced land-holder for the period the land isvested	in the Custodian but that it enures for the  benefitof  his	 heirs and legal  representatives.   Therefore,	 thefirst  incident	 of  allotment	implicit  in  this  is	 theheritability of the rights of the allottee which  constitutequasi-permanent	  allotment   under  the   above   mentionednotification  of  July 8, 1949.	 Various  other	 rights	 arespecified in105318cls. 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the said notification.	 These	willbe  summarised	later.	 But it is to be  noticed  that	 theallotment  itself  is subject to resumption  under  el.	 (6)thereof.   Before  considering the nature  of  the  interestwhich  these various clauses of the notification  confer  onthe quasi-permanent allottee, it is necessary to see how farthis notification of July 8, 1949, is affected by subsequentlegislation and the rules framed thereunder.Now  the  East Punjab Evacuee Property	Administration	Actswere  repealed	and replaced by Central Ordinance  XXVII  of1949  and  Central  Act	 XXXI of  1950.	  Both	the  CentralOrdinance  and Central Act had each a section, s. 53 and  s.55  respectively,  under which the  Central  Government	 maydelegate its rule making power to the State Government.	  Inexercise of such delegated power the State Government issueda  notification No. 1554-Cust. dated February 6,  1950,	 therelevant portion of which is as follows:"  The	Provincial  Government is  pleased  to	notify	thatStatement   of	Conditions  issued  by	the  Custodian	 andpublished under the notification No. 4891/S and 4892/S datedthe 8th July, 1949, shall be deemed to be and shall continueto  remain  in	force  as rules	 framed	 by  the  ProvincialGovernment  under  sub-section	(2) of	section	 53  of	 theCentral	 Ordinance No. XXVII of 1949 under  delegation	fromthe Central Government under Notification No.  3094-A/Cus/49dated	2nd  December,	1949,  subject	to   the   followingmodifications and amendments:(i)The rules as stated in the Statement of Conditions  undernotification  Nos.  4891/S and 4892/S dated  the  8th  July,1949, shall be called the Administration of Evacuee Property(Rural) Rules, 1949.(ii)Definition.	 (a)  The  word 'ACT' defined  in  the	saidStatement  of  Conditions shall mean the  Administration  ofEvacuee	 Property  Ordinance, 1949 (Ordinance No.  XXVII  of1949).    ...................................................."The above rules of July 8, 1949, have, therefore,  continuedto be operative as rules made under the819Central	 Ordinance.  On the repeal of the Central  Ordinanceby Central Act XXXI of 1950 and by virtue of s. 58  thereof,these rules continue to be in force as though they are rulesmade  under the Central Act of 1950.  Further,	the  CentralGovernment  framed  rules on September	28,  1950,  entitledAdministration	of Evacuee Property (Central)  Rules,  1950,which will be noticed presently.  Later, in exercise of	 thedelegated rule-making power vested in the Provincial Govern-ment  under s. 55 of the Central Act, the Punjab  Governmentframed rules dated August 29, 1951, entitled "	Instructionsfor review and revision of land allotment.  " These two setsof subsequent rules would affect the rules of July 8,  1949,to  the	 extent that any of them are inconsistent  with	 theearlier	 rules.	 A comparison of the subsequent	 rules	withthe  earlier  rules of July 8, 1949, shows  that  the  laterrules  do  not concern any of the matters  provided  by	 theearlier	 rules of 1949 (and 1950) excepting as	regards	 theprovisions   relating  to  resumption-which   virtually	  iscancellation-of	 allotments.   Hence the rules	of  July  8,1949, continue to be in force except to that extent, if any.The  portion  which  has undergone,  if	 any,  variation  bysubsequent rules may now be noticed.The provision for resumption in the rules published, by	 thePunjab Government in its notification of July 8, 1949, is asfollows:"   6.	 The  Custodian,  or  as  the  case  may   be,	 theRehabilitation	Authority  shall  be  competent	 to  resume,amend,	withdraw,  or  cancel the allotment on	any  of	 thefollowing grounds:(a)It  is  contrary  to	 the  orders  of  the  East   PunjabGovernment,  or	 the  instructions  of	the  Financial	Com-missioner,   Rehabilitation,  or  the	Custodian,   EvacueeProperty, East Punjab ;(b)The allottee has infringed or appears to be, preparing toinfringe any of the terms of allotment;(c)The	allotment  was	obtained  by  false  declaration  orinsufficient  information or is contrary to the	 purpose  ofrehabilitating the displaced persons;820(d)  The  area allotted or occupied by the allottee is	morethan he was authorised to take on allotment or occupy  underthe instructions issued by the East Punjab Government or theFinancial  Commissioner, Rehabilitation, or  the  Custodian,Evacuee Property, East Punjab;(e)  Where the claims of other parties with respect. to	 theland  have been established or accepted by the Custodian  orthe Rehabilitation Authority;(f)  When the allottee has been convicted of an offence underthe Act; or(g)  If	 the  allottee fails to take possession of  the	 andwithin	the time as may be allowed by the Custodian  or	 theRehabilitation Authority, or after having taken	 possession,fails to cultivate the land or a part hereof "The next set of rules are those made under Central Act	XXXIof 1950.  Rule 14 of Central Rules, 1950, is the following:" 14. (1) ......................................"(2)  In	 case  of  an allotment	 granted  by  the  Custodianhimself,  the  Custodian may evict a person  on	 any  groundjustifying  eviction of a tenant under any law	-elating  tothe  Control  of Rents for the time being in  force  in	 theState  concerned, or for any violation of the conditions  ofthe allotment.(3)  The  Custodian  may evict a person who has	 secured  anallotment by misrepresentation or fraud or if he is found tobe  in	possession of more than one evacuee property  or  inoccupation of accommodation in excess of his requirements.(4)  ..................................."It  will  be  seen  that the above  provisions	are  not  inthemselves   powers  of	 cancellation  or  modification	  ofallotment but are supplementary thereto authorising evictionof  an allottee under the circumstances	 indicated  therein.The  next  set of rules in this connection are	rules  datedAugust	29,  1951,  enacted  by	 the  Punjab  Government  inexercise of powers delegated to it by the Central Governmentunder s. 55 (1) of Central Act821XXXI  of  1950.	 In so far as these rules relate  to  allot-ments,	cls. (a) to (g) of r. (1) thereof are virtually	 thesame as those relating to resumption in the notification  ofJuly  8, 1949.	The additions thereto in the 1951 rules	 arethe following:"  (1)	The  Custodian	shall  be  competent  to  cancel  orterminate  any allotment or vary the terms of any  allotmentor  agreement  and  evict the allottee in  any	one  of	 thefollowing circumstances:(a) to (g) .......................................(h) that it is necessary or expedient to cancel or vary	 theterms of an allotment for the implementation of resettlementschemes and/or rules framed by the State Government; or	 forsuch  distribution amongst displaced persons as	 appears  tothe Custodian to be equitable and proper; or(1)  that it is necessary or expedient to cancel or vary theterms  of an allotment for the preservation, or	 the  properadministration, or the management of such property or in theinterests of proper rehabilitation of displaced persons.(2)  Anything  done or any action taken in exercise  of	 anypower  conferred  by the previous rules shall be  deemed  tohave  been done or taken under these rules, as if they	werein  force on the day on which such thing was done or  actionwas taken.  "A  close  scrutiny will show that as regards  resumption  orcancellation of (quasi-permanent) allotments made under	 thenotification  of July 8, 1949, the Central Rules of 1950  donot  make  any	alteration by r. 14 thereof  but  give	onlysupplementary  powers of eviction in certain  contingencies.The rules of August 29, 1951, made by the Punjab  Governmentunder delegated authority will be found on comparison to  besubstantially  the  same as those enumerated in cl.  (6)  ofJuly  8, 1949, notification under the heading I	 Resumption'with the addition of cls. (h) and (i) and wit an  additionalclause giving retrospective operation to the new rules.Rule  14 of the Central Rules, 1950, has  been	subsequentlymodified by notification No. S.R.O. 1722 dated822October 29, 1951, by adding sub-r. (6) which is as follows:Where  any State Government has, in exercise of	 the  powersdelegated  to  it, made any rules under clause (1)  of	sub-section (2) of section 56 of the Act which are	inconsistentwith this rule, such rules shall prevail over this rule.  " This obviously is intended to indicate that if there is anyinconsistency  as regards the power of cancellation  betweenthe  Central Rules and the later delegated State Rules,	 theState  Rules  are to override the Central Rules.   Now,	 allthese  rules  relating to the power  of	 cancellation  whichderive	their authority from the rule making power given  bythe  Provincial	 and  Central Acts must,  according  to	 theordinary  rules of construction, be read so as to  harmonisewith  the powers of cancellation under the Act	itself.	  Itfollows	 that  r. (6) relating to resumption  of  allotmentsunder  the  notification of July 8, 1949, as  it  originallystood  until February 6, 1950, must be read with s.  9-A  ofEast Punjab Act XIV of 1947 as amended in 1948, in so far asit  relates to allotment.  Similarly Central Rules of  1950,and the delegated State Rules of 1950 and 1951 must be	readto  harmonise with s. 12 of Central Act XXXI of 1950, in  sofar as they relate to allotments made under the notificationof July 8, 1949.  Reading these powers of cancellation underthe  Act and the Rules together, it will be found  that	 thepower of cancellation of such allotments is wide and  variedand  depends  to  a substantial extent	on  ad	ministrativeorders and considerations.  Rule 14 of Central Rules,  1950,underwent  alterations	in July, 1952, and  February,  1953.These  are  subsequent to the date of  cancellation  of	 theallotment in the present case and have no direct bearing  onthe present case. Pausing  here and summarising the position as	it  obtainedtill July 22, 1952 (when further-relevant rules were framed)as regards the rights under the (quasi permanent)  allotmentscheme	introduced by notification of July 8, 1949,  may  bestated	thus. (References given as against each are  to	 therelevant provisions of the notification of July 8, 1949).8231.  The allottee is entitled to right of use and  occupationof  the	 property until such time as  the  property  remainsvested in the Custodian. (Clause 3 (1).)2.The  benefit	of such right will enure to  his  heirs	 andsuccessors. (Definition of 'allottee '.)3.His  enjoyment of the property is on the basis  of  payingland-revenue  thereupon	 and  cesses  for  the	time  being.Additional rent may be fixed thereupon by the Custodian.  Ifand when he does so, the allottee is bound to pay the  same.(Clause 3 (3).)4.   He	 is entitled to quiet and undisturbed  enjoyment  ofthe property during that period. (Clause 8.) 5.  He	 is entitled to make improvements on the  land	withthe assent of the Custodian and is entitled to	compensationin  the manner provided in the Punjab Tenancy  Act.  (Clause7.) 6. He is entitled to exchange the whole or any part of	 theland  for  other  evacuee  land	 with  the  consent  of	 theCustodian. (Clause 5.)7.  He	is  entitled  to lease the land	 for  a	 period	 notexceeding   three  years  without  the	permission  of	 theCustodian and for longer period with his consent.  But he isnot  entitled to transfer his rights by way of	sale,  gift,will, mortgage or -other private contract. (Clause 4 (c).)8.  His rights' in the allotment are subject to	 the  fairlyextensive powers of cancellation under the Act and rules  asthen   in   force  prior  to  July  22,	 1952,	 on   variedadministrative	considerations	and  actions  such  as	 thefollowing (Clause 6 and subsequent rules of 1951.):-(a)That	 the  allotment	 is contrary to the  orders  of	 thePunjab	Government  'or the instructions  of  the  FinancialCommissioner,	Relief	 and  Rehabilitation,  or   of	 theCustodian, Evacuee Property, Punjab;(b)That the claims of other parties with respect to the landhave  been established or accepted by the Custodian  or	 theRehabilitation Authority;824(c)  That it is necessary or expedient to cancel or vary theterms of an allotment for the implementation of resettlementschemes and/or rules framed by ,the State Government; or forsuch  distribution amongst displaced persons as	 appears  tothe Custodian to be equitable and proper;(d)  That it is necessary or expedient to cancel or vary theterms  of an allotment for the preservation, or	 the  properadministration, or the management of such property or in theinterests of proper rehabilitation of displaced persons.It is noteworthy that the powers of cancellation include theliability of the allotment to be cancelled, if it is securedby  false declaration or insufficient information, and	alsoif  the	 allottee is convicted under the provisions  of	 theEvacuee	 Property  Administration Acts. (Clause	 6  (c)	 and(f).).Taking	all the above incidents together as to the  positionof a displaced land-holder to whom evacuee agricultural landhas  been allotted Under the notification of July  8,  1949,there  can  be no doubt that he is in  a  definitely  betterlegal  position	 than  the  allottee of	 other	kinds  -  ofproperty  under	 Central Act XXXI of 1950  and	the  CentralRules of 1950, who, as already shown, is more or less in theposition of a licensee.But even so, it is still far short of what can be consideredas being in itself I property' either in the widest sense orin  a  limited	sense.	It is very  strenuously	 urged	thatthough this might appear to be so if one has regard only  tothe  legislation and to the statutory rules up to  July	 22,1952,  the  position  of  such	an  allottee  emerges	moredefinitely  and clearly in the light of further	 legislationand subsequently amended rules.	 It is urged that this laterlegislation  was  in implementation of the,  original  PressCommunique  dated February 7, 1948 which was  understood  tohold out the assurance of allotment its conferring permanentproperty.  On this contention the later legislation has alsobeen brought to our notice.  In view of the insistence	withwhich this contention has been urged825and  the  importance  of the question, it  is  desirable  tonotice	the same and to consider the effect thereof  withoutdeciding  whether  the	later  legislation  and	 the   PressCommunique  are	 relevant for the decision  of	the  mattersinvolved in this case.The earliest change in the pre-existing situation, as  abovenoticed,  was brought about by two notifications, S.  R.  0.1290  dated July 22, 1952, and S. R. 0. 351  dated  February13,  1953, as a result of which sub-r. (6) of r. 14  of	 theCentral Rules of 1950 stood amended by the substitution of anew sub-rule which is as follows :"  (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule,	 theCustodian  of  Evacuee	Property in each of  the  States  ofPunjab	and Patiala and East Punjab States Union  shall	 notexercise  the  power of cancelling any	allotment  of  ruralevacuee property on a quasi-permanent basis, or varying	 theterms  of  any	such  allotment,  except  in  the  followingcircumstances:(i)where the allotment was made although the allottee  ownedno agricultural land in Pakistan;(ii)where  the allottee has obtained land in excess  of	 thearea to which he was entitled under the scheme of  allotmentof land prevailing at the time of allotment;(iii)where the allotment is to be cancelled or varied-(a)in accordance with an order made by a competentauthorityunder section 8 of the East Punjab Refugees (Registration ofLand.  Claims) Act, 1948 ;(b)on  account	of  the failure of the	allottee  to  takepossession  of	the  allotted evacuee  property	 within	 sixmonths of the date of allotment;(c)in consequence of a voluntary surrender of the allottedevacuee	 property,  or	a  voluntary  exchange	with   otheravailable rural evacuee property, or a mutual exchange	withsuch  other available property;(d)  in accordance with any general or special order of	 theCentral Government;106826Provided  that	where an allotment is  cancelled  or  variedunder clause (ii), the allottee shall be entitled to  retainsuch  portion of the land to which of the would	 ,have	beenentitled  under the scheme of quasi-permanent  allotment  ofland:  Provided further that nothing in this sub-rule shall applyto  any application for revision, made under section  26  orsection	 27 of the Act, within the prescribed time,  againstan order passed by a lower authority on or before 22nd July,1952." This amendment has undoubtedly the effect of modifying	 thepower of resumption or cancellation vested in the  Custodianauthorities  in	 respect  of  quasi-permanent  allottees  byvirtue	of the pre-existing rules and to confine such  powerwithin narrow limits as specified therein.  But whether	 therestrictions on this power of cancellation can be harmonisedwith  the power to vary or cancel allotments vested  in	 theCustodian  under  s.  12 of Central Act XXXI of	 1950  is  amatter	not  without some difficulty.  It may,	however,  beassumed that, if possible, the latest amendment of r. 14  ofCentral Rules, 1950, by the insertion of the amended  sub-r,(6)  therein  will  have to be	harmonised  with.  the	mainsection	 by a process of construction so as not	 to  nullifythe beneficient provisions specifically enacted in mandatorylanuage.  It is noteworthy that the language of the new sub-r. (6) of r. 14 operates only as a restraint on the exerciseof the power of cancellation vested in the Custodian and notas  a  negation of the power itself and it  may,  therefore,well  be that there is no inconsistency.  The choice of	 thelanguage  appears to be intentional.  On the other  hand  itmay  be	 noticed also in this context that there  have	beensome  amendments in 1953, 1954 and 1956 of s. 16 of  CentralAct XXXI of 1950 relating to return of the evacuee  propertyto  the	 evacuee which continue to recognise  his  right  toreturn of the property and have made some alterations in thedetails	  of-the   procedure   applicable   thereto.	 Thecontinuance  of	 the  right of return  may  well  imply	 thecontinued existence of the power to cancel the allotment.827The  next  important legislative measure  is  the  DisplacedPersons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (XLIV of1954).	By s. 12 of this Act it is provided as follows:"  If  the  Central  Government is of  opinion	that  it  isnecessary  to  acquire	any evacuee property  for  a  publicpurpose,  being	 a, purpose connected with  the	 relief	 andrehabilitation	of-displaced persons, including	 payment  ofcompensation to such persons, the Central Government may  atany time acquire such evacuee property by publishing in	 theOfficial  Gazette  a  notification to the  effect  that	 theCentral	 Government  has  decided to  acquire  such  evacueeproperty in pursuance of this section.(2)On  the publication of a notification under	subsection(1),  the  right, title and interest of any evacuee  in	 theevacuee property specified in the notification shall, on andfrom the beginning of the date on which the notification  isso published, be extinguished and the evacuee property shallvest  absolutely  in the Central Government  free  from	 allencumbrances. (3)..................................................."It  may	 be  noticed that by virtue  of	 Central  Governmentnotification No. S.R.O. 697 dated March 24,1955, under	sub-s. (1). of this section, all evacuee property allotted underthe  Punjab Government notification dated July 8, 1949,	 hasbeen  acquired by the Central Government  excepting  certainspecified  categories in respect of which  proceedings	werepending.  It does not appear that the propertie's which	 arethe  subject  matter of the present  application  have	beenacquired  under	 this  notification,  probably	because	 thedispute	 about them is still pending.  Section 3 of the	 Actprovides as follows:" There shall be paid to an evacuee compensation in  respectof his property acquired under section 12 in accordance withsuch  principles and in. such manner as may be	agreed	uponbetween the Governments of India and Pakistan.	"Section	 14 makes provision for constituting a	compensationpool  for  the	purpose	 of  payment  of  compensation	 andrehabilitation grants to displaced persons.  The828evacuee	 property acquired under s. 12 forms part  of  this.compensation  pool.   Section 10 is important  and  providesinter  alia  that  where any  immovable	 property  has	beenallotted  to  a	 displaced person  by  the  Custodian  underconditions  published by the notification of the  Governmentof  Punjab No. 4892-8 dated July 8, 1949, and such  propertyis  acquired under the provisions of the Act and forms	partof  the	 compensation pool, the displaced person  shall,  solong   as  the	property  remains  vested  in  the   CentralGovernment,  continue in Possession of such property on	 thesame  conditions on which he held the  property	 immediatelybefore the date of the acquisition.  It is further  providedthat  the Central Government may for the purpose of  paymentof compensation, transfer to him such property on such termsand  conditions as may be prescribed.  Section	40  providesfor  the  rule-making  power.  Sub-section  1  (a)  thereof_enables	 the Central Government to make rules providing	 forthe  form and manner in which and the time within which,  anapplication for payment of compensation may be made and	 theparticulars which it should contain.  It may be noticed that"compensation  "  referred  to in s. 10, in  so	 far  as  itrelates	 to  a	displaced person, obviously  refers  to	 thecompensation for loss of his property in Pakistan and is notthe  recognition of a right to compensation for	 deprivationof  his	 interest,  if	any, in	 the  allotted	property  bycancellation.	 Rules	have  been  made  by   the   CentralGovernment  called  the Displaced Persons  Compensation	 andRehabilitation Rules, 1955, published by notification  datedMay  21,  1955.	 Rules 71 and 73 relate to  verified  claimswhich do not seem to refer to agricultural lands.  "Verifiedclaims"	  relate   to  urban  immovable	 property   as	 thedefinition  there of in the Displaced Persons (Claims)	Act,1950  (XLIV  of	 1950) shows.  Rule 72	(1)  relates  to  anallottee  of agricultural land having no verified claim	 andis  relevant.  Rule 72 (2) provides that if  the  SettlementOfficer	 is  satisfied that the allotment is  in  accordancewith  the  quasi-permanent  scheme, he	may  pass  an  ordertransferring the land allotted to the allottee in829permanent  ownership as compensation and, shall also,  issueto  him a sanad in the form specified in the, Appendix	XVIIor  XVIII, as the case may be, granting him such rights.   Ascrutiny of the sanad which is, printed at page 70, AppendixVII,   of   the	  Displaced,   Persons	 Compensation	 andRehabilitation	Rules,	1955, issued by	 the  Government  ofIndia,	Ministry  of Rehabilitation, shows that it  is	onlyunder this sanad that an allottee obtains permanent propertyin  the land., which originally belonged to the evacuee	 andwhich  was allotted to him under the quasi-permanent  allot-ment scheme.  This sanad is the culmination of the hope& andexpectations   of  allottees  held  out	 under	 the   PressCommunique  dated :February 7, 1948, and confirms,  if	any,the view that until such stage has been reached the allotteehas  no	 such  interest in the evacuee lands  which  can  byitself	constitute  "property"	within the  meaning  of	 theprotected fundamental rights.  It is admitted by the learnedcounsel	 for  the petitioners that the petitioners  in	thiscase have not yet been able to obtain any sanad under  theserules  for  the	 lands	originally  allotted  to  them	 andcancelled  by the impugned orders of the Custodian  and	 theDeputy	Custodian-General.  He urges, however,	that  havingregard	to the whole scheme and on the assumption  that	 theorders of cancellation, which he challenges, are  erroneous,they  Would in the ordinary course have obtained  the  sanadfor  the  lands and that the right to relief under  Art.  32must  be determined on that footing.  Great; stress is	laidon  the	 fact that under the scheme of Central Act  XLIV  of1954,  even  if	 evacuee property is acquired  under  s.  12thereof,   the	quasi-permanent	 allottee  is  entitled	  tocontinue  in  possession of the property under s.10  on	 thesame  conditions as before so long as the  property  remainsvested	in the Central Government.  Stress is also  laid  onthe  fact that he can apply for transfer of the property  tohimself under r. 72 (2) 'of the rules made under the Act  inpayment	 of  compensation  payable to him in  lieu.  of	 hisproperty left-. in-West Punjab and that such application fortransfer' is normally to be granted and a sanad issued330to him.	 In this context, learned counsel for the petiionersrelies	 on  the  well-known  principle,  viz.,,   where   adiscretionary  power is vested in a statutory authority,  toact  in	 certain circumstances for the	benefit	 of  certainperson or class of persons (as in s. 10 of Central Act	XLIVof 1954 and r. 72 (2) of the rules thereunder) the  exerciseof  such  power	 in  favour of	such  a	 person,  where	 therequisite conditions exist, is obligatory and not  optional,as laid down in the case in Julius v. Lord Bishop of  Oxford(1).   This  principle, however, has no application  in	 thepresent	 case.	 While	it  is true that  tinder  s.  10  anallottee under the quasi-permanent allotment scheme has	 thebenefit	 of continuing in possession thereof and may  obtaintransfer  on application, such benefits are subject  to	 thepowers exercisable under s. 19 of the same Act and r. 102 ofthe  rules  framed thereunder.	It may be  noticed  that  inrespect	 of  the evacuee property which	 has  been  acquiredunder  s. 12 and which forms part of the  compensation	poolunder s. 14, the Central Government may appoint under s.  16of the Act, for the management thereof, Managing Officers orManaging  Corporations.	  Section  19  of  the	Act  furtherprovides as follows:"  19.	Powers to 'vary or cancel allotment of any  propertyacquired under this Act.(1).	  Notwithstanding   anything   contained,   in	 anycontract  or any other law for the time being in  force	 butsubject	 to any rules that may be, made under this Act,	 themanaging  officer  or managing corporation  may	 cancel	 anyallotment  or amend the terms of any allotment	under  whichany  evacuee  property acquired under this Act	is  held  oroccupied  by  a person, whether such allotment	was  grantedbefore or after the commencement of this Act.   ............... ......"Rule 102 of the rules framed under the Act is as follows"102.	  cancellation	 allotments   A	  managing   officermanaging corporation --may in respect -of(i)  (1880) 5 App.  Cas. 214.831the  property in the compensation pool entrusted to him	 or,to  it,	 cancel an allotment or vary the terms of  any	suchallotment if the allottee-------(a)  has sublet or parted with the possession of. the  wholeor  any	 part of the property allotted to  him	without	 thepermission of a competent authority, or(b)  has used or is using such property for a purpose  otherthan  that  for	 which it was allotted to  him	without	 thepermission of a competent authority, or(c)  has  committed  any  act which  is	 destructive  of  orpermanently injurious to the property, or(d)  for  any  other  sufficient reason to  be	recorded  inwriting. Provided  that	 no action shall be taken  under  this	ruleunless the allottee has been given a reasonable	 opportunityof being,heard." These	are in terms wide enough to include  quasi-permanentallotments.  This shows that notwithstand. ing the privilegeof  the quasi-permanent allottee to continue  in  possessionunder  s. 10 and the scope he has for obtaining, a  transferunder  the  same  section and r. 72 (2) of  the	 rules	madethereunder,  his allotment itself is liable to be  cancelledunder  s.  19  and r. 102.  Hence he has no  such  right  toobtain	a transfer which can be given effect to	 within	 theprincipale  of	Bishop of Oxford's case (1).  He  does	not,therefore,  appear to have an indefeasible right  to  obtaintransfer of the very land of which he is the quasi-permanentallottee,  if such land is acquired under s. 12 of the	Act.Thus  the  position  of	 quasi-permanent  allottee,  whetherbefore	July  22,  1952, or after that	date,  is  that	 hisrights,	 such as they are, either under the notification  ofJuly  8, 1949, or under s. 10 of Central Act XLIV  of  1954,are  subject  to powers of cancellation exercisable  by	 theappropriate  authorities., in accordance with  the  changingrequirements   of  the	evacuasede  property  law  and	 itsadministration.	  Hence the quality of the interest  of	 thedisplaced,allottee in (1) 3 App.  Cas. 214.832evacuee	 agricultural  land allotted to him  appears  to  besubstantially the same for the present purpose and the	realquestion is whether such interest constitutes  "  property "within	the  meaning of Arts. 19, 31 (1) and 31 (2)  of	 theConstitution.The above detailed consideration of the various incidents ofa quasi-permanent allotment show clearly that the sum  totalthereof	 does  not in any sense	 constitute  even  qualifiedownership of the land allotted.	 At beat it is analogous  towhat is called jus in re aliena according to the concept  ofRoman  Law  and may be some kind of interest in	 land.	 Thebasic  features	 of  that interest  are	 that  the  ultimateownership of the land is still recognised to be that of	 theevacuee and the allotment itself is liable to resumption  orcancellation  with  reference  to  the	exigencies  of	 theadministration of evacuee law.	The interest so	 recognised,is in its essential concept, provisional, though with a viewto stabilisation. and ultimate permanence.  The	 provisionalcharacteristic	of this interest emerges from the fact	thatthere have had I to be a series of interDominion conferencesto settle on governmental level the problems &rising out  ofevacuee property in either country.  The, stabilisation	 hadto  await the results of such conferences.  Thus  both	withreference to the internal necessities of the  administrativeproblems  inherent in the process of settling the  displacedpersons	 on  the  evacuee lands with  reference	 to  variousconsiderations	and  policies and the  external	 problem  ofarriving  at  understandings between  the  two	governments,these  rights had to be so regulated from time to  time	 andhad  an	 element  of unstability,  though  they	 were  beingprogressively	invested   with	  the	characteristics	  ofstability.   An interest in land owned by another in such  asituation  cannot be fitted into any, concept of  'property'in   itself.   The  concept  of	 a  bundle  of	 rights	  inagricultural  land constituting by itself 'property' is	 theoutcome of a stable and settled state of affairs relating tosuch bundle of 'rights.	 Historical jurisprudence shows thateven  the  concept of individual. property  in	agriculturalland was the833outcome of stable and settled conditions Of Society.  It  isalso  relevant	to  observe that  the  incidents  of  quasi-permanent  allotment are entirely statutory.  Subjection  tothe  power  of	cancellation by the Custodian  in  whom	 theproperty  is vested is one of such incidents and  determinesthe  quality  thereof.	 Therefore, having  given  our	bestconsideration, we are unable to hold that the interest of  aquasi-permanent	 allottee is ' property' within the  conceptof that word so as to attract the protection of	 fundamentalrights.Property, to fall within the scope of Art. 19 (1) (f),	mustbe capable. of being the subject-matter of " acquisition anddisposal  ".  The interest of  the  quasipermanent  allotteearises	by statutory grant to a specified class	 of  personsand is not capable of acquisition by the ordinary citizen inany  of the normal modes' Nor is it capable of	disposal  bythe  allottee  himself in the normal modes by way  of  sale,mortgage,  gift	 or will.  Neither is the  interest  of	 thequasi-permanent	 allottee such as can be brought within	 thescope  of Art. 31 (2).	Article 31 (2) as recently  amended,taken	with  Art.  31	(2A)  contemplates  acquisition	  orrequisitioning	(and  taking  possessions  as  a  result  oftransfer of the ownership or of the right to possession.  Itis  true  that the recent amendment came into  operation  onApril 27, 1955, and the impugned orders of the Custodian andDeputy Custodian-General are on February 6, 1952, and May 1,1954.	But  in view of the word " deemed " in	the  amendedArt.  31  (2A)	it appears likely  that	 the  amendment	 wasintended to be retrospective.  Even assuming that it is	 notso,  the words " taking possession " or " acquisition  "  inArt.  31  (2) prior to. the amendment are wholly  inapt	 andinapplicable to the bundle of rights of the nature  detailedabove  which   constitute quasi-permanent tenure and  it  isdifficult  to  apply to it the protection under Art  31	 (2)either	as  it	stood  before the  amendment  or  after	 theamendment.Learned	 counsel for the petitioners has urged that even  ifArts. 19 (1) (f) and 31 (2) are not applicable, the 107334petitioners  can invoke the protection of Art. 31 (1)  whichsays  that no person shall be deprived of his property	saveby authority of law.  He relies on the judgment of one of usreported  in the State of West Bengal v. Subodh	 Gopal	Bose(1), where it was stated as follows:"  The	word 'property' as used in Article 31 (1)  may	havebeen  intended	to  be	understood  in	a  wider  sense	 anddeprivation  of	 any  individual right out of  a  bundle  ofrights constituting concrete property may be deprivation  of'property' which would require the authority of law."This is a view which was not shared by the other members  ofthe Court in that decision.  In any case it is clear that inorder  that  Art. 31 (1) may apply, it is  not	enough	thatthere  is  'deprivation'  but it must  also  be	 deprivationwithout	 the authority of law.	What has happened,  however,in this case is not deprivation of the property without	 theauthority  of  law even assuming that the bundle  of  rightsconstituting such an interest in land is I property'.  It isthe  working out of the right of resumption or	cancellationwhich  was  one	 of  the incidents  of	the  property.	 Thecancellation by the Custodian authorities was under the verylaw  which  created those rights.  Even if the	exercise  ofthat authority can be made out to be wrong, it is still	 notopen  to question having regard to ss. 28 and 46 of  CentralAct  XX-XI  of	1950.  It is not an  illegal  usurpation  ofjurisdiction   by  the	authorities  concerned	so   as	  toconstitute negation of the authority of law.  In the presentcase what has happened is that the quasi-permanent allotmentof  the petitioners has been cancelled in order to work	 outreadjustments  consequent  upon	 the  order  of	 the  higherauthority.Learned	 counsel for the petitioners has  strenuously  urgedthat under the quasi-permanent allotment scheme the allotteeis  entitled to a right to possession within the  limits  ofthe relevant notification and that such right to  possessionis  itself 'property'.	That may be so in a sense.   But  itdoes not affect the(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 587,673.835question  whether  it  is  property so	as  to	attract	 theprotection of fundamental rights under the Constitution.  Ifthe totality of, the bundle of rights of the quasi-permanentallottee  in  the evacuee land constituting an	interest  insuch  land,  is	 not  property	entitled  to  protection  offundamental rights, mere possession of the land by virtue ofsuch interest is not on any higher footing.Learned counsel has also drawn our attention to a number  ofActs and notifications of the Punjab Government to show thata quasi-permanent allottee has been treated as being in	 thesame  position	as  an	owner of  land	itself	for  variouspurposes.  Thus in r. 5 of the Land Revenue Rules under	 thePunjab	Land Revenue Act, 1887 (Punjab Act XVII of 1887),  aquasi-permanent	 allottee is classed with other land  ownersas being eligible for appointment as zaildars.	Similarly byvirtue	of  rules  framed under	 the  East  Punjab  Holdings(Consolidation	and Prevention of Fragmentation)  Act,	1948(East  Punjab Act L of 1948), a quasi-permanent allottee  isliable	 to   pay  the	cost  of   consolidation   if	suchconsolidation comprises lands in his occupation.  These	 andother  such  provisions,  however, have no  bearing  on	 thequestion at issue before us.After the close of the arguments before us a recent decisionof the Punjab High Court reported in Suraj Parkash Kapur  v.The State of Punjab(1) has been brought to our notice and wehave  given  our careful consideration to  the	same.	Thatdecision may be right on its merits, a matter about which weexpress	 no  opinion.  But, with respect, we are  unable  toagree with the view expressed therein that a quasi-permanentallottee has such an interest in the land allotted to him asto constitute " property ", if it is meant to convey therebythat  it  is  property	which  attracts	 the  protection  offundamental rights under the Constitution.For  all  the above reasons we are unable to hold  that	 anyfundamental right of the petitioners has been(1)  (1957) LIX P.L.R. 103.836infringed This petition is accordingly dismissed but, in thecircumstances, without costs.  In  holding that quasi-permanent allotment does not  carrywith   it  a  fundamental  right  to  property	 under	 theConstitution  we  are  not  to be  supposed  as	 denying  orweakening  the scope of the rights of the  allottee.   Theserights	as recognised in the statutory rules  are  importantand  constitute	 the essential basis of	 a  satisfactory  byrehabilitation	and  settlement of  displaced  land-holders.Until  such time as these land-holders obtain sanads to	 thelands,	these rights are entitled to zealous  protection  ofthe  constituted  authorities  according  to  administrativerules and instructions binding on them, and of the courts byappropriate   proceedings  where  there	 is  usurpation	  ofjurisdiction or abuse of exercise of statutory powers.			    Petition dismissed.837