PETITIONER:THE BULLION AND GRAIN EXCHANGE LTD.  AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJABDATE OF JUDGMENT:13/09/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASDAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  268		  1961 SCR  (1) 668ACT:Forward	 Contracts  Tax-Validity  of   enactment-Legislativecompetence-Severability of valid portion-Punjab Forward Con-tracts	Tax Act, 1951 (Punj). 7 of 1951), s.  2-Constitutionof India, Seventh Schedule, List II, Entry 62.HEADNOTE:The  appellants, who were carrying on the business  of	com-mission agents in forward contracts, filed a petition beforethe High Court of Punjab under Art. 226 of the	Constitutionof  India  challenging the validity of	the  Punjab  ForwardContracts  Tax	Act, 1951, on the ground that it  was  ultravires the powers conferred upon the State Legislature.	 TheAct  provided  for the levy of a tax  on  forward  contractswhich  were  defined,  by.  S. 2,  as  agreements,  oral  orwritten, for sale of goods on a future date but on the basisof which actual delivery of goods was not made or taken	 butonly  the difference between the price of the  goods  agreedupon  and  that	 prevailing on the  date  mentioned  in	 theagreement  or  any other date was paid or  received  by	 theparties.  The High Court took the view that the Act was	 oneto  tax speculation in futures and fell within Entry  62  ofthe  State  List as an Act to impose taxes  on	betting	 andgambling.Held,  that  as the definition of the expression  "  forwardcontract  " in the Punjab Forward Contracts Tax	 Act,  1951,does  not  set out all the elements which are  necessary  torender a contract a wagering contract the legislature  couldnot be considered to have contemplated wagering contracts indefining  " forward contracts " in the way it did.  The	 Acttherefore  does not fall within Entry 62, List	II,  SeventhSchedule of the Constitution, and is beyond the	 legislativecompetence of the State Legislature.Held,  further,	 that  even  if	 the  definition  could	  beconsidered  to be wide, enough to include certain  contractswhich may be wagering contracts because of the fact that theparties	 to  the contract had no intention  to	deliver	 thegoods,	the portion of the Act which would then be valid  isso  thin  and truncated that the entire Act should  be	heldinvalid.R.   M. D. Chamarbaugwala v. The Union of India, [1957] S.   C.R. 93o, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 123/55669Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember 12, 1951, of the Punjab High Court in Writ PetitionNo. 116 of 1951.N.   C.	 Chatterjee,  S.  N. Andley, J.	 B.  Dadachanji	 andRameshwar Nath, for the appellants.S.   M. Sikri, Advocate-General for the State of Punjab,N.   S.	 Bindra	 and  D. Gupta, for  the  respondent. 1960.	 September  13.	  The  Judgment	 of  the  Court	 wasdelivered byDAs GUPTA J.-This appeal is against the judgment of the HighCourt of Punjab rejecting the appellant's application  underArt.  226  of  the Constitution.  In  this  application	 theappellants  who	 had  been  carrying  on  the  business	  ofcommission  agents in Forward Contracts at Ludhiana  allegedthat the Punjab Forward Contracts Tax Act, 1951 (Punjab	 ActNo. VII of 1951), was ultra vires the powers conferred	uponthe State Legislature and prayed for a declaration that	 theAct  and  the notification made and  the  rules	 promulgatedthereunder  by the respondent, State of Punjab,	 were  void.There was a further prayer for directing the State of Punjabby a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ to allow thepetitioners to carry on the business of Forward Contracts oras  commission agents in Forward Contracts  unrestricted  bythe  provisions	 of the above-mentioned Act  and  the  rulesthereunder And not to enforce the Act.The  respondent's  case as made in para. 5 of  its  written-statement was that " the impugned Act is not ultra vires theState Legislature.  It is a law with respect to the  mattersenumerated  in& Entry 62 of the State List read	 with  EntryNo. 7 of the Concurrent List of the 7th Schedule."The High Court held that:-"The impugned Act, is an Act to tax speculation in  futures,at  least so far as dealers such as the	 present  applicantsare concerned, falls within Item 62 of the State List as  anAct  to	 impose taxes on betting and gambling, and  to	thatextent at least is valid."670In this view the High Court rejected the application.The  only  question  for  our decision	is  as	regards	 thelegislative competence of the State Legislature of Punjab toenact this statute.  Though a reference under Entry 7 of theConcurrent List of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution	 wasmade  in  the  respondent's written  statement	no  relianceappears to have been placed on this entry in the High  Courtnor  has it been relied on before us by the learned  counselappearing on behalf of the respondent and it is quite  clearthat  the  impugned  Act cannot fall within Item  7  of	 theConcurrent  List  which	 is  in	 these	terms:"	  Contracts,including  partnership, agency, contracts of  carriage,	 andother	special	 forms	of  contracts,	but  not   includingcontracts  relating  to agricultural land ".  It  is  commonground before us that the Act must be held to be within	 thelegislative competence of the Punjab State Legislature	onlyif in pith and substance it fell within Item 62 of the StateList and if it did not so fall it must be held to be  beyondthe  State  Legislature's competence.  Item  62	 mentions  "taxes on luxuries, including taxes on entertainment,  amuse-ments, betting and gambling."If  the	 impugned  Act provides for a  tax  on	betting	 andgambling then and then only it can come within Item 62.	 TheAct provides for the levy of a tax on forward contracts	 andit  has defined " forward contract" in s. 2 in these  words:"Forward contract" means an agreement, oral or written,	 forsale  of  goods on a future date but on the basis  of  whichactual	delivery of goods is not made or taken but only	 thedifference  between the price of the goods agreed  upon	 andthat  prevailing on the date mentioned in the  agreement  orany  other  date  is paid or received by the  parties  ".  "Dealer	"  is  defined in the same section  to	mean  "	 anyperson,	 firm,	Hindu  Joint  family  or  limited   concern,including an arhti or " chamber " or association formed	 forthe purpose of conducting business in forward contracts, whoconducts  such business in the course of trade in the  Stateeither	on his own behalf or on behalf of any other  person,arhti, "chamber" or association". ,Sale" is defined to mean			    671"the  final, settlement in respect of an agreement  to	sellgoods  mentioned  in  a forward contract, and  it  shall  bedeemed	to have been completed on the date originally  fixedin  the forward contract for this purpose or any other	dateon  which the final settlement is made ". Section 4  is	 thecharging section and provides for a levy on the business  inforward	 contracts  of a dealer a tax at such rates  as	 theGovernment may by notification direct.	Section 5 lays	downthat every dealer shall be liable to pay tax under this	 Actas  long as he continues his business in forward  contracts.Section 6 prohibits any dealer from carrying on business  inforward	  contracts  unless  he	 has  been  registered	 andpossesses a registration certificate.  Section 7 deals	withthe mode of payment of the tax and for submission of returnswhile s. 8 provides for assessment of the tax.As  the	 term " forward contract " has been defined  in	 thestatute itself we have to forget for the purpose of decidingthe present question any other notion about what a  "forwardcontract"  means.   For the purpose of	this  statute  everyagreement  for	sale of goods on a future date is  not	a  "forward	 contract ". It has to be an agreement for the	saleof  goods  on  a future date and has to	 satisfy  two  otherconditions,  viz., (1) actual delivery of the goods  is	 notmade  on the basis of the agreement and (2)  the  differencebetween	 the  price  of	 the  goods  agreed  upon  and	thatprevailing  on	the date mentioned in the agreement  or	 anyother  date is paid by the buyer or received by the  seller.The test of a forward contract under this definition is thatdelivery  of  goods  is	 not made  or  taken  but  only	 thedifference between the price of the goods as agreed upon andthat  prevailing  on  some other date is paid..	 Is  such  acontract  necessarily  a  wagering  contract  and  thereforegambling ?When  two parties enter into a formal contract for the	saleand  purchase  of  goods at a given  price,  and  for  theirdelivery at a given time it may be that they never  intendedan  actual transfer of goods at all, but they intended	onlyto  pay	 or receive the difference according as	 the  marketprice should vary from the86672contract price.	 When such is the intention it has been heldthat is not a commercial transaction but a wager on the riseor fall of the market, which comes within the connotation of"  gambling  ".	 It  is the fact  that	though	in  form  anagreement  for sale purports to contemplate delivery of	 thegoods  and  the payment of the price, neither  delivery	 norpayment of the price is contemplated by the parties and whatis  contemplated  is merely the receipt and payment  of	 thedifference  between  the contract price and the price  on  alater  day that makes the contract a wagering contract.	  Inthe  definition	 of " forward contract in the  impugned	 Actthere  is no reference, directly or indirectly' to  such  anintention.   It	 is only by reading for the words  "  actualdelivery  of goods is not made or taken " the  words  actualdelivery  of  goods  is	 not to be  made  or  taken  and  bysubstituting  for  the words " is paid or  received  by	 theparties	 "  the	 words " is to be paid or  received  by	 theparties	 " and also by omitting the words " on the basis  ofwhich " that the word " forward contract " as defined in thesection	 can be held to refer to a wagering contract.	Thishowever	 we  are  not entitled to do.  The  reason  why	 theLegislature did not use the words " to be made or taken " or"  to be paid or received " in the definition clause is	 notfar  to seek.  An agreement oral or written which  in  termsprovides that actual delivery is not to be made or taken andthat  the  entire price of the goods is not to be  paid	 andonly  the difference between the price of the  goods  agreedupon  and that prevailing on some other date would  be	paidwould  be hit by s. 30 of the Contract Act and would not  beenforceable.   Parties	to a written agreement for  sale  ofgoods  would therefore take good care to see that the  termsdo not provide that delivery should not be made but only thedifference   is	 to  be	 paid.	 There	might  be  an	oralunderstanding between the parties that no delivery should bedemanded  or made, but that only difference should be  paid.But it will be next to impossible for a tax being imposed onthe  proof of such intention, not expressed in	the  writtencontract.  When the agreement for sale of goods is oral, butthe parties			    673agree as between themselves that no delivery would be  made,but  difference in price would be paid, it would be  equallyimpossible  for a taxing authority to discover in  which  ofthe contracts such an agreement has been made.	The  disputewhether a particular contract is a wagering contract or	 notarises	in civil courts generally when the contract of	saleis  sought  to be enforced and one of the parties  tries  toavoid the contract by recourse to s. 30 of the Contract Act.When  such  a  dispute comes before the	 Court,	 it  becomesnecessary  to consider all the circumstances to see  whetherthey  warrant  the legal inference that	 the  parties  neverintended  any  actual delivery but intended only to  pay  orreceive the difference according as the market price  shouldvary  from  the contract price.	 It is therefore  well	nighimpossible  for any taxing authority to brand  a  particularforward con. tract as a wagering contract ; nor is it to  beexpected  that	any party on whom the tax is  sought  to  belevied,	 will  voluntarily disclose that in  the  particularcontract or in a number of contracts, the intention was	 notto  deliver  the  goods	 but only  to  pay  or	receive	 thedifference  in	price.	Aware of these difficulties  in	 thepractical  application	of  a law to levy  tax	on  wageringcontracts, the legislature decided to levy tax on  contractsfor sale of goods in which actual delivery is not  factuallymade  or taken, whatever be the intention at the  time	whenthe agreement was made.It appears clear therefore that the words " forward contract"  as  defined in the Act do not set out  all  the  elementswhich are necessary to render a contract a wagering contractand so the impugned legislation to tax forward contracts  asdefined does not come within.  Entry 62.The learned Advocate-General for the State of Pun. jab triedto  convince us that even though the words used in  definingforward	 contract may include contracts which do not  amountto  wagering  contracts,  they are wide	 enough	 to  includecertain contracts which may be wagering contracts because ofthe fact that the parties to the contract, had no  intentionto674deliver	 the  goods.  If the definition is wide	 enough-  toinclude contracts which are wagering contracts, he contends,the statute should not he struck down as a whole but  shouldbe  held  to  be  valid in respect  only  of  such  wageringcontracts.  On behalf of the appellants Mr. N. C. Chatterjeehas drawn our attention to the provisions of registration of"  dealers " in s. 6 and has argued that the very fact	thatthe  Legislature  was  calling upon  persons  dealing  in  "forward	 contracts " to register themselves and to  prohibitdealing	 in  forward contracts	by  non-registered  dealers,justifies  the	conclusion  that  the  Legislature  was	 notthinking  of wagering contracts at all.	 As against this  itis proper to note that the Constitution itself	contemplatedtaxation on gambling " by State Legislatures.  It is howeverone  thing  to tax gambling, and quite another thing  for  aLegislature  to	 encourage  gambling by	 asking	 persons  toregister themselves for-this purpose.  The definition of a "dealer " it has to be noticed includes " a limited  concern,including,  a Arhti, Chamber or association formed  for	 thepurpose of conducting business in forward contracts ". While it might happen in fact that an association would  beformed	for the purpose of conducting business	in  wageringcontract,  it  is hardly likely that the  Legislature  wouldtake   upon  itself  the  task	of  openly  permitting	 andrecognizing  such associations.	 These, in our opinion,	 aregood  reasons  for  thinking that the  Legislature  did	 notcontemplate wagering contracts at all in defining "  forwardcontract" in the way it did.Assuming  however  that	 the definition is  wide  enough  toinclude wagering contracts, the question arises whether	 theportion	 of the Act which would then be valid  is  severablefrom  the  portion which would remain invalid.	One  of	 therules  approved by this Court in R. M. D. Chamarbaugwala  v.The Union of India (1), for deciding this question was	laiddown in these words:-"In  determining  whether the valid parts of a	statute	 areseparable from the invalid parts thereof, it(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 930.			    675is the intention of the legislature that.is the	 determiningfactor.	  The test to be applied is whether the	 legislaturewould  have enacted the valid part if it had known that	 therest of the statute is invalid."A second rule was that if "the  valid and invalid parts of a statute are	 independentand  do	 not form part of a scheme but what  is	 left  afteromitting the invalid portion is so thin and truncated as  tobe  in substance different from what it was when it  emergedout of the legislature, then also it will be rejected in itsentirety.  "Applying  either of these rules, we are bound to  hold	thatthe  entire Act should in the present case be held  invalid.It  seems  to  us clear that if	 the  Legislature  had	beenconscious  that	 taxation on all forward contracts  was	 notwithin its legislative competence it would have at once seenthat  because of the difficulty of finding out	which  amongthe  contracts	for  sale  of goods on	a  future  date	 arewagering contracts, it would not be worthwhile to enact	 anylaw for taxing wagering contracts only.	 It is equally clearthat  once the law is held to be invalid as regards  forwardcontracts  other than wagering contracts, what is left is  "so  thin and truncated as to be in substance different	fromwhat  it was when it emerged out of the legislature  ".	 Therespondent's  contention that the statute should be hold  tobe  valid  in  respect of  wagering  contracts	even  thoughinvalid	 as regards other forward contracts  must  thereforealso be rejected.Our  conclusion therefore is that the impugned statute	doesnot  fall  within Item 62 of the State List and that  it  isbeyond the legislative competence of the State	Legislature.The  appellants	 were  therefore  entitled  to	 appropriatereliefs	 as prayed for in their petition under Art.  226  ofthe Constitution.We  therefore allow this appeal, set aside the order of	 theHigh  Court and direct that the petition under Art.  226  ofthe  Constitution  be allowed and declare  that	 the  PunjabForward	 Contracts  Tax	 Act No. VII of	 1951  is  void	 andunconstitutional  as  it is ultra vires the  powers  of	 theState  Legislature,  that the notification  made  under	 therules promulgated by the676respondent under this Act are also void and unconstitutionaland  that  a mandamus do issue directing the  respondent  toallow  the petitioners to carry on the business	 of  forwardcontracts  or  as commission agents  for  forward  contractsunrestricted  by the provisions of the said  Punjab  ForwardContracts  Tax Act No. VII of 1951 and the rules  thereunderand not to enforce the provisions of this Act and the rules.The appellants will get their costs in this Court as also inthe court below.Appeal allowed.