PETITIONER:MESSRS.	 KAMARHATTY CO.	 LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI USHNATH PAKRASHIDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/05/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1399		  1960 SCR  (1) 473ACT:Industrial   Dispute-Power   of	  Tribunal-Order   of	 re-instatement, when can be made-industrial Disputes Act (14 of1947), ss. 33A, 10.HEADNOTE:  The  respondent  made an application under s. 33A  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act, 1947, which, inter  alia,  statedthat there was no reason for retrenchment on account of	 theclosure of a ration shop, and that at any rate he was longerin   service  than  others  who	 had  been  retained,	and,therefore, the principle of " last come, first go " had beenviolated.  The Tribunal dismissed the application  whereuponthe  respondent	 appealed to the  Appellate  Tribunal  whichallowed the appeal and refused permission to retrench.The  Appellant Company was granted special leave  to  appealonly  on the limited question as to whether an order of	 re-instatement  can be made on an application under s.  33A  ofthe Act.Held,  that  the complaint under S. 33A	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947, is as good as a reference under s. 10 ofthe Act and the Tribunal has all the powers to deal with  itas it would have in dealing with a reference under s. 10  ofthe  Act  and it is open to the Tribunal in proper  case  toorder reinstatement.JUDGMENT:  CIVIL	 APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal	No.  310  of1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  22, 1956, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of  India,Calcutta in Appeal No. Cal. 183 of 1955.   N.C. Chatterjee, S. N. Mukherjee and B. N. Ghosh for	 theappellant.  Sukumr Ghosh, for the respondent.   1959.   May 21.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyWANCHOO J.-This appeal by special leave against the decisionof the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India is limited to	 thequestion whether an order of reinstatement can be made on anapplication under s. 33-A of60474the  Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter	 called	 theAct).	The brief facts necessary for the decision  of	thisquestion  are these.  The appellant is a Jute  Mill.   Therewas a dispute pending before an Industrial Tribunal  betweena  number of jute mills in West Bengal and their  employees,and  the appellant was a party to that dispute.	 During	 thependency  of  that  dispute,  the  appellant  laid-off	 therespondent who was an employee in the ration shop maintainedby  the appellant from July 19, 1954, as rationing of  food-stuff came to an end from July 10, 1954.  The reason for thelay-off	 was that the ration shop was closed  following	 theend  of rationing.  This resulted in the staff in that	shopbecoming surplus.  Consequently, nine persons were  selectedfor retrenchment on the principle of " last come first	go",and  the  respondent was one of them.	The  appellant	alsoapplied	 under s. 33 of the Act to the	Industrial  Tribunalfor permission to retrench the respondent along with others.Shortly	 before the application under s. 33, the  respondenthad applied under s. 33-A of the Act and. his case was	thatthere  was no reason to make Any retrenchment on account  ofthe  closure of the ration shop and that he was at any	ratelonger	in  service than others who had	 been  retained	 andtherefore  the principle of " last come first go "  had	 notbeen  followed.	  It was also said that the  respondent	 hadbeen laid-off as he was an active worker of the union and assuch  was not in the good books of the appellant.   It	was,therefore, prayed that the respondent should be allowed fullwages  and amenities since the so-called lay-off, which	 wasnothing	 more nor less than retrenchment and that he  shouldbe reinstated. The  Industrial  Tribunal came to the conclusion  that	 thelay-off	 was justified because of the closure of the  rationshop  and gave permission to the appellant to  retrench	 therespondent  on the principle of " last come first go ".	 Therespondent  appealed to the Labour Appellate  Tribunal.	  Hedid  not  urge	there  that  there  was	 no  necessity	 forretrenchment  at  all.	What was urged there  was  that	 theIndustrial Tribunal was wrong in holding that the  principleof " last come first475go" had been followed in this case.  The Appellate  Tribunalcame  to  the  conclusion that the respondent  had  been  inservice	 much longer than others who had been  retained	 andtherefore  the principle of " last come first go " had	beenviolated.   In consequence, the appeal was allowed  and	 thepermission  to	retrench the respondent	 was  refused.	 TheAppellate Tribunal also ordered that the respondent,  shouldbe reinstated in service without any break in the continuityof service and the order of the appellant in laying him	 offand  discharging  him in effect from July 19, 1954  was	 setaside.	 Thereupon the appellant came to this Court and	 wasgranted special leave on the limited question set out above.  In  our  opinion, the answer to the  limited	question  onwhich the special leave has been granted can only be one  inview  of  the language of s. 33-A.  That section  lays	downthat " where an employer contravenes the provision is of  s.33 during the pendency of proceedings before a tribunal, anyemployee  aggrieved  by	 such  contravention,  may  make   acomplaint in writing to the tribunal and on receipt of	suchcomplaint  the tribunal shall adjudicate upon the  complaintas if it were a dispute referred to or pending before it, inaccordance  with the provisions of the Act and shall  submitits  award to the appropriate government and the  provisionsof this Act shall apply accordingly." It is thus clear	thata  complaint  under  s.	 33-A of the Act is  as	 good  as  areference  under s. 10 of the Act and the tribunal  has	 allthe powers to deal with it as it would have in dealing	witha  reference under s. 10.  It follows, therefore,  that	 thetribunal  has the power to make such order as to  relief  asmay  be	 appropriate  in the case and as it can	 make  if  adispute	 is  referred to it relating -to  the  dismissal  ordischarge of a workman.	 In such a dispute it is open to thetribunal in proper cases to order reinstatement.   Thereforea  complaint under s. 33-A being in the nature of a  disputereferred  to  a	 tribunal  under s. 10 of  the	Act,  it  iscertainly  within its power to order reinstatement  on	suchcomplaint,  if the complaint is that the employee  has	beendismissed or discharged in breach of s. 33.476Learned counsel for the appellant wanted to argue that	thiswas not a case of discharge or dismissal but of lay-off.  Wedid  not  permit  him to raise	this  argument	because	 thespecial	 leave	was  limited only to the  question  set	 outabove.	 The  answer  to  that	question  has  already	beenindicated above and on that answer the appeal must fail.  Wetherefore  dismiss the appeal, but in the  circumstances  wemake no order as to costs -of this Court.			   Appeal dismissed.