PETITIONER:BARODA BOROUGH MUNICIPALITY	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:13/11/1956BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  110		  1957 SCR   33ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Bonus-One department of  a	municipalityhaving	surplus	 earnings-Whether workers  engaged  in	thatdepartment  can claim bonus-Bombay Municipal  Boroughs	Act,1925 (Bom. Act XVIII Of 1925).HEADNOTE:The Baroda Electric Supply Concern was owned and managed  bythe  State of Baroda.  Immediately before the merger of	 theState  in the Province of Bombay, the State made a  gift  ofthe Concern to the Baroda Municipality to provide it with  anew  source of revenue as. aid from the State might  not  becontinued  after  the merger.  Later in	 1951,	the  workmenemployed  in the electricity department demanded  bonus	 andthe  dispute was referred for adjudication.  The  bonus	 wasclaimed	 on  the  basis	 that the  electric  Concern  was  acommerical  concern,  that it was making 'huge	profits	 andthat  the workmen were entitled to bonus as a share  in	 theprofits.  The municipality resisted the demand, inter  alia,on the grounds that the earnings of one department could notbe  treated  as profits of the municipality, and that  as  awhole  the  muncipal budget for the relevant  period  was  adeficit budget.Held,	that  the  workers  employed  in   the	 electricitydepartment  of	the municipality were not  entitled  to	 thebonus  claimed.	 According to the provisions of	 the  BombayMunicipal  Boroughs Act, 1925, under which the	municipalityis constituted and functions, the earnings of one departmentcannot	be  held  to  be  gross	 profits  in  the   ordinarycommercial  or trading sense.  The mere fact  that  separateaccounts  were	kept of the electricity department  did	 notalter  the  position,  as  there  was  one  budget  for	 themunicipality as a whole and income from and expenses of	 alldepartments  constituted  the  income and  expenses  of	 themunicipality.  The different activities of the	municipalityconstituted one integrated whole,534and  the  activities of the different departments  were	 notdistinct  or  unconnected  activities so as  to	 permit	 theisolation  of one  department from another or of  an earningdepartment  from a spending department.	 It would be  unfairto  draw  a distinction between the workers of	the  earningdepartment  and the workers of the spending  department	 forthe payment of bonus.  Such a distinction would, instead  ofpromoting  peace  and  harmony among the  employees  of	 themunicipality, create unrest and discontent. D.  N.	 Banerji v. P. R. Mukherjee, [19531 S.C.R.  302	 andMuir  Mills  Co. Ltd. v. Suti Mills Mazdoor  Union,  Kanpur,[1955] 1 S.C.R. 991 referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 182 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember  23,  1955,  of the Labour  Appellate	Tribunal  ofIndia, Bombay, in Appeal No. 224 of 1953 arising out -of  anaward (Part II) dated June 4, 1953, of the Bombay IndustrialTribunal in Reference No. (I.T.A.)No. 18 of 1951.M. C. Setalvad,Attorney-General for India,N. C.	  Chatterji,J.  B.	Dadachanji,  S.	 N. Andley  and	 Rameshwar  Nath  ofRajinder Narain & Co., for the appellant.Purshottam Tricumdas, H. R. Gokhale, K. R. Choudhury and  M.R. Rangaswamy, for the respondents.1956.  November 13.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyS.K.  DAS  J.-This  is an appeal by  special  leave  from  adecision  of the Labour Appellate Tribunal at Bombay,  datedNovember  23, 1955.  The Baroda Borough Municipality is	 theappellant,  and the respondents are the workmen employed  inthe   electricity  department  of  the	 said	Municipalityrepresented  mostly  by the Baroda  State  Electric  WorkersUnion  (hereinafter  called  the  respondent  Union).	 Thesubstantial question for determination in this appeal is  ifthe  respondents, workers in a municipal department  engagedin  the generation, supply and sale of electric energy,	 areentitled to the bonus claimed out of the surplus earnings ofthe  said department (called "profits" by  the	respondents)after35allowing  for all outgoings including necessary	 expenditureof  the	 department and deductions for all  prior,  charges.The  question  is, a short one, but has	 an  importance	 andconsequences  reaching beyond the limits of  the  particularcase in which it has arisen.We may first state the relevant facts.	Before May 1,  1949,on  which date the former State of Baroda was merged in	 andintegrated with the then Province of Bombay (now the  BombayState),	 the  Baroda Electric Supply Concern was  owned	 andmanaged	 by  the State of Baroda.  On April 19,	 -1949,	 theState  Government  of Baroda decided to hand over  the	saidConcern	  as   a  gift	to  the	 Baroda	  Municipality	 andcommunicated an order to that effect in which it was  statedinter alia:-It is likely that the various types of assistance, financialor  otherwise,	which  the  Baroda  Municipality  has	beenreceiving  up to now from the Baroda Government may  not  becontinued  to  a similar extent after  integration.   It  istherefore very necessary to find out new sources of  revenuefor  the Municipality so that it may continue to maintain  ahigh standard of efficiency as far as possible......... Withthis  object  in view the Baroda Government are	 pleased  tohand over to the Municipality as a -gift the Baroda ElectricSupply	Concern	 which at present is  a	 Government  concernincluding  both the generation and distribution of  electricpower.	 With  the transfer of the electric concern  to	 theMunicipality  the various funds of the, electric  departmentlike the Reserve Fund the Depreciation Fund etc. are also tobe  transferred	 to  the  Municipality	with  this  specificunderstanding  that  these  funds should  not  be  used	 forpurposes    other   than   those   for	 which	 they	 areintended......... The Baroda City Municipality will have  tobe  issued  licence for the generation and  distribution  ofelectricity   as   per	Barods	Electricity  Act   and	 theMunicipality should immediately apply for such a licence forthe  supply of electric power not only within the  municipallimits	but within a twenty miles radius round Baroda.	 TheMunicipality  should continue the policy of the	 department.to give36electric  energy at concessional rates for  irrigation	pur-poses  in the villages, although this may not be  profitablein  the	 beginning......  The entire  staff  of	 the  BarodaElectric Supply Concern will be taken up by the Municipalitywithout	 an reservation and the Municipality is directed  tobring into operation terms and conditions of services as areprevalent  under the Bombay Government and the officers	 andstaff  should be given emoluments which they would have	 gothad they joined Bombay Government."On April 29, 1949, -a formal order of handing over was made,subject	 to certain directions reserving the rights  of	 theemployees  in  the matter of  pension,	gratuity,  providentfund,  continuity  of service etc.  In 1951,  there  was  anindustrial  dispute between the Baroda Borough	Municipalityand  the  workmen employed in the electric  department	withreference to a number of demands made by the latter, and  byconsent	 of  the appellant Municipality and  the  respondentUnion, the dispute was referred to the Industrial  Tribunal,Bombay,	 for adjudication, by an order of the Government  ofBombay dated October22,1951.  The dispute related to a largenumber	of  items,  one	 of  which  was	 "payment  of  bonusequivalent  to	three  months'	wages  (including   dearnessallowance)  for	 the year 1940-50 to all employee,%  of	 theelectric   department  including  daily	 wage  workers	 andtemporary  workers."  The dispute was settled  by  agreementwith regard to all other items except the item of bonus;  onthat item the Industrial Tribunal heard the parties and cameto the conclusion that the respondents were not entitled  tothe bonus claimed because(1)  the  Municipality	 was  not  aprofit-making concern;(2)     the  balance of earnings	overthe outgoings of the electric department of the Municipalitywas not 'profit' as that word is understood in the  ordinarytrading or business sense; (3) the Municipality consisted ofboth  earning and spending departments and it was  not	per-missible  to  create an invidious  distinction	between	 thedifferent employees of the Municipality by granting bonus tothe workmen in one department only; and (4)  the respondentshaving been compensated by higher37scales of salary on the municipalisation of the	 undertakingand having got other benefits and amenities appertaining  tomunicipal  service were not entitled to claim such bonus  aswas  granted to them during the regime of the former  State-owned company.Against	 this decision of the Tribunal, there was an  appealto  the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India at  Bombay.	 TheAppellate   Tribunal  came  to	the  conclusion	  that	 therespondents  were entitled to claim bonus; it expressed	 theview that on the decision of this Court in D. N. Banerji  v.P.  R. Mukherjee (1) the expression industrial	dispute'  inthe Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, includes disputes betweenmunicipalities and their employees in branches of work	thatcan  be regarded as analogous to the carrying on of a  tradeor  business,  and  if the undertaking	resulted  in  profitduring	the  relevant  trading	period,	 the  workmen	wereentitled  to  claim  bonus as of  right.   On  the  questionwhether	 the excess of earnings over outlay of	a  municipalundertaking like the one under consideration here was profitor  not, the Appellate Tribunal relied on the  circumstancesstated	below  for its finding that the	 excess	 was  reallyprofit:(a)  the very nature of the gift to the Baroda	Municipalityby  the State Government of Baroda showed that	the  concern(or undertaking) made over to the former was a profit-makingconcern;(b)  the concern was run separately and as it was a  tradingconcern by its very nature,, the balance of earnings derivedfrom it after allowing for all outgoings was pecuniary	gainand  it made no material difference to the actual nature  ofthe gain, whether it was called surplus or profit; and(c)  no	 distinction  could be made in principle  between  amunicipal  undertaking	and an undertaking by a	 private  orpublic concern, if the conditions laid down for the grant ofbonus  in Muir Mills Co. Ltd. v. Suti Mills  Mdzdoor  Union,Kanpur (2) were fulfilled.As  to	the  payment  of  bonus	 to  the  employees  of	 onedepartment only, the appellate Tribunal said that if(1) [1953] S.C.R. 302.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 991.38the profits were not sufficiently large to admit of bonus toall employees, it was permissible to treat the	profitmakingdepartment  as a separate unit for the purpose	of  grantingbonus,	unless there was some essential nexus or  connectionbetween	 the profit-making department and other	 departmentsor some unity of purpose or parallel or co-ordinate activitytowards	 a common goal.in all the departments without  whichthe undertaking could not be carried on to proper advantage.The Appellate Tribunal. pointed out that the accounts of theelectricity  department.  of the  Baroda  Municipality	wereseparately  kept  and as the undertaking carried on  by	 theelectricity  department of the municipality  differed.	fromother normal activities of the Municipality, there being' nocommon nexus between them, it was open to the workmen of theelectricity department to claim bonus out of the profit madeby  that  department after making deductions for  all  priorcharges.   The	Appellate Tribunal accordingly	allowed	 theappeal,	 set aside the decision of the	Industrial  Tribunaland  remanded the case for decision on merits  according  tolaw.It  is now finally settled by the decision of this Court  inD.  N. Banerji v. P. R. Mukherjee (supra) that	a  municipalundertaking  of the nature we have under consideration	hereis  an	'industry' within the meaning of the  definition  ofthat  word in s. 2(j) of the Industrial Disputes Act,  1947,and  that  the expression 'industrial dispute' in  that	 Actincludes disputes between municipalities and their employeesin branches of work that can be regarded as analogous to thecarrying  on of a trade or business.  The learned  Attorney-General who appeared for the appellant made it clear at	 thevery out set that the questions which he wished us to consi-der  in this case were different from those  considered	 anddetermined by the aforesaid decision.The first contention which he placed in the forefront of hisargument  is this: he invited attention to our	decision  inMuir  Mills  Co. Ltd. v. Suti Mills  Mazdoor  Union,  Kanpur(Supra)	 and contended that having regard to the  principleslaid  down therein for the grant of bonus,  the	 respondentswere not entitled to claim any39bonus  in this case because even though the  undertaking  inquestion  was  an  'industry' within  the  meaning,  of	 theIndustial  Disputes Act, 1947, there was no profit from	 theundertaking  and  the principles which govern the  grant  ofbonus  out of profits, as explained in that  decision,	wereinapplicable to a municipal undertaking of the nature  underconsideration before us.In  the	 Muir Mills case (supra) it was	 observed  that	 twoconditions  had	 to be satisfied before a demand  for  bonuscould  be justified: one was that the wages of	the  workmenfell short of the living standard and the other was that theindustry  made profits to the earning of which	the  workmenhad  contributed.  The principle for the grant of bonus	 wasstated	thus: ','It is fair that labour should	derive	somebenefit	 if  there  is	a surplus  after  meeting  prior  ornecessary charges." The prior or necessary charges were thenexplained  as (1) provision for depreciation,  (2)  reservesfor  rehabilitation,  (3) a return of six per cent.  on	 thepaid up capital and (4) a return on the working capital at alesser	rate than the return on paid up capital.   Do  thoseprinciples  apply in the case of a municipal undertaking  ofthe kind in question here ?There  can  be no doubt that the respondents  founded  theirclaim  of bonus in this case on the availability of  profitsafter meeting prior or necessary charges.  In the  statementof their claim they said, "The electric concern was  treatedas   a	commercial  concern  by	 the  former  Baroda   StateGovernment  and it used to yield huge profits to the  State.Even  after  merger  the municipality is treating  it  as  acommercial concern and the concern is fielding huge  profitsto  the municipality too.  It is submitted that all  workersof  the electric department should be paid bonus  equivalentto  three. months wages including D.A. The bonus  should  bepaid  to all the employees including daily  wage,  temporaryand  semi-permanent  workmen.  The workers are	entitled  tobonus both as share in profits and also &a deferred  wages."It was decided in the Muir Mills case (supra) that bonus wasnot   deferred	wage;  so  the	alternative  claim  of	 therespondents on the footing that bonus was deferred wage	 hadno real basis, and their40claim of bonus as share in profits was the only claim  whichmerited	  consideration.   In  reply  to  that	claim,	 theappellant said:This   demand  is  not	acceptable.   Under  former   BarodaGovernment Order No. (R) 403/63 dated 19-4-49, after seriousconsideration	into   the   financial	 position   of	 theMunicipality after the integration of the Baroda State	withthe Bombay Province and with a view to find out new  sourcesof  revenue for the Municipality so that it may continue  tomaintain  its  standard	 of efficiency and  to	fulfill	 theobligations incumbent upon the Municipality, the  Governmentwas  pleased  to hand over to the  Municipality	 the  BarodaElectric Supply concern."The  Municipality is experiencing great hardships still  inmeeting all its obligations and covering the lost sources ofrevenue.   Even including the income of the Electric  SupplyConcern, the municipal budget is a deficit one.	 Due to wantof sufficient funds, the Municipality has to give up certainschemes and works or to postpone the same."Further,  local authorities, like municipalities and  localboards,	 are  public utility institutions  and	the  profitsderived from the working of the Electric Supply Concern willall  go to the Municipal treasury and city's  tax-payers  ingeneral, unlike other commercial organisations whose profitsare distributed only among the investing public." It  is clear to us that having regard to the provisions  ofthe Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925 (Bombay Act XVIII of1925), hereinafter called the Municipal Act, under which theappellant  Municipality	 is constituted and  functions,	 theearnings  of  one department of the Municipality  cannot  beheld  to  be  gross profits in the  ordinary  commercial  ortrading	 sense; nor can, the principles governing the  grantof  bonus  out of such profits after  meeting  necessary  orprior charges be applied to the present case.The  relevant sections of the Municipal Act are ss. 58,	 63,65, 66, 68 and 71.  We shall subsequently advert to S. 58 ofthe Municipal Act in connection with another41contention  of	the  learned  Attorney-General;	 but  it  isnecessary to refer here to ss. 63, 65, 66, 68 and 71 of	 theAct.  Section 63 lays down, inter alia, that all property ofthe nature specified in clauses (a) to (f) of sub-s. (2)  ofthe   section  shall  be  vested  in  and  belong   to	 theMunicipality and shall, together with all other property  ofwhatever  nature  or  kind which may become  vested  in	 themunicipality, be under its direction, management and controland  shall be held and applied by it as trustee, subject  tothe provisions and for the purposes of the Act.	 Clauses (a)to  (f)	 of subs. (2) of the section  relate  to  immoveableproperty  and permanent fixtures or works thereon.   Section65,  which  is more relevant for our purpose,  states  interalia  that all moneys received by or on behalf of a  munici-pality,	 all taxes, fines, penalties etc., all	proceeds  ofland  or  other property sold by the  municipality  and	 allrents  accruing from its land or property and all  interest,profits	 and other moneys accruing by gift or transfer	fromthe  Government or private individuals or  otherwise,  shallconstitute  the municipal fund and shall be held  and  dealtwith in a manner similar to the property specified in a. 63.Section	 66  lays  down	 that the  municipal  fund  and	 allproperty  vested  in the municipality shall be	applied	 forpurposes  of  the  Act within the limits  of  the  municipalborough.  Section 68 lays down the duties of municipalities,one  of which is the lighting of public streets, places	 andbuildings.  This is an obligatory duty of the  municipality.Section	  71  states  the  discretional	 functions  of	 themunicipality and one of such functions is the  construction,maintenance,  repairs, purchase of any works for the  supplyof  electrical	energy (see el. ql).  It is worthy  of	notethat  cl.  (q1)	 was inserted by an  amending  Act  in	1951(Bombay	 Act 44 of 1951).  A similar amendment was  made  inthe  same year in s. 66 of the Municipal Act and the  effectof  the	 amendment  was that the  municipality	could  incurexpenditure to supply electrical energy not only for the useof the inhabitants of the municipal borough but also for thebenefit	 of  any person or buildings or	 lands	in  anyplacewhether	 such place was or was not within the limits of	 thesaid42borough.  A scrutiny of these provisions clearly establishestwo  propoisition:  one	 is  that  all	municipal  property,including moneys etc. received by way of gift, is vested  inthe  municipality  and shall be held and applied  by  it  astrustee	 subject to the provisions and for the	purposes  ofthe Municipal Act, and it is not open to the municipality totreat  some of its property separately from  other  propertyand  divert it for purposes other than those  sanctioned  bythe  Municipal Act; the other proposition is that there	 aresome obligatory functions which a municipality must perform,and  one of these is the lighting of public streets,  placesand buildings; and there are some other functions which	 themunicipality may at it,% discretion perform either wholly orpartly out of municipal property and fund, and one of  thesediscretionalfunctions  is  the supply of  electrical  energywhich  is  for the use of the inhabitants of  the  municipalborough or for the benefit of any person, buildings or landsin  any	 place whether such place is or is  not	 within	 thelimits of the municipal borough.The question now is whether, having regard to the  aforesaidprovisions,  it	 was open to the Municipality to  treat	 itselectricity department, the property thereof and the  incometherefrom,  separately	from other departments and  spend  apart of the income for the benefit of the employees of	thatdepartment  only, treating it as profits of  the  particulardepartment  and not as part of the entire municipal fund  orproperty.  In our opinion, such a treatment of the income ofone department of the Municipality would be clearly  againstthe  provisions	 of the Municipal Act.	It is  pertinent  torefer  here to Chapter XI of the Municipal Act dealing	withMunicipal Accounts.  Under s. 209 a complete account of	 allreceipts and expenditure of the municipality and a  completeaccount of the actual and expected receipts and expenditure,together   with	 a  budget  estimate  of  the	income	 andexpenditure  of	 the municipality, have to be  prepared	 foreach year and these have to be prepared and laid before	 themunicipality  on or before a particular date.  These  budgetestimates have then to be sanctioned at a special43general	 meeting of the municipality.  Learned	counsel	 forthe respondents stressed two points in this connection.	  Hepointed	  out  that  as	 a  matter  of	fact   the'   BarodaMunicipality  kept  separate  accounts with  regard  to	 itselectrical undertaking, including a capital account  showingcapital expenditure and capital receipts; separate  accountswere  also  kept  of the reserve  fund,	 depreciation  fund,provident  fund etc.  It was argued that the maintenance  ofthese separate accounts showed that the Baroda	Municipalitydid   treat  the  income  of  the   electricity	  departmentseparately   from  that	 of  other  departments,   and	 themaintenance  of such accounts did not contravene any of	 theprovisions of the Municipal Act.  The second point  stressedwas   that  the	 distinction  between  the  obligatory	 anddiscretional  functions of the municipality showed  that  inthe  exercise  of discretional	functions  the	municipalitymight engage in an undertaking with a profit-making  motive.Learned counsel for the respondents submitted before us thatif  there  was profit from the 'electricity  department	 wasrunning	 an  undertaking  in exercise  of  the	discretionalfunctions  of the Baroda Municipality, the workmen  in	thatdepartment  would be entitled to bonus as of right.  In	 ouropinion, these submissions are based on a misapprehension ofthe  true position in law.  With regard to the first  point,it  is	worthy	of note that  the  maintenance	of  separateaccounts of a particular department by the Municipality doesnot  alter the nature or quality of the property  or  incometherefrom.   The  property  or	income	is  still  municipalproperty  within  the  meaning	of ss.	63  and	 65  of	 theMunicipal Act, and it can be utilised only for the  purposesof the Act as laid down by s. 66.  Maintenance of a separateaccount	 for a particular department is in the nature of  aninternal  accounting arrangement; it does not  really  alterthe quality or nature of the property or income, and for thepurposes of s. 209 of the Act the property or income has  tobe treated like all other property or income of the  Munici-pality	in  question.  In his book on  Public  Finance,	 Mr.Findlay	 Shirras has pointed out that the classification  ofpublic revenue or income, both of the State and44of  municipalities,  has undergone  considerable  change  inrecent	years and non-tax revenue of the State may  be	sub-divided	 into three main classes-(1) developmental  revenuesfrom  the  public domain and from the  public  undertakings,which  include	not only revenue from the State	 domain	 butalso  from  the	 municipal domain;  (2)	 administrative	 andmiscellaneous  revenues	 other than loan revenues;  and	 (3)loan  revenues	(see Science of Public	Finance	 by  FindlayShirras,  Vol.	I, Book III, Chapter XIII,  pages  211-212).At  page 717 (Vol.  II, Book III, Chapter XXX), the  learnedauthor has posed the following question with regard to Stateor municipal concerns: "An important point in such  concernsis  the keeping of strictly commercial	accounts.   Interestshould	be paid on capital.  Provision should also  be	madefor depreciation of machinery and plant, for a pension fund,rents  for  land, and income tax in order to arrive  at	 thetrue  net profit.  State concerns sometimes show a  surplus,but  the  point is how much of this is really  profit?"	 Thelearned	 author has posed the question but given no  answer.We  are of opinion that the answer has been very  succinctlyput in Dr. Paton's Accountants' Handbook (3rd edition, s. 24dealing with Governmental Accounting, page 1277).  Says	 Dr.Paterson: " In private business the proprietary or  residualequity	usually represents the ownership  of  individuals-inthe  case of the corporation that of the  shareholders.	  InGovernment this residual element reflects the equity of	 thecontinuing  body  of citizens as a group, and  in  no  sensebelongs	 to  particular	 members of the group ;	 it  is	 notrepresented  by capital stock and there are no	shares	withspecific voting rights and dividend expectations." The legalposition under the Municipal Act is the same.  The income ofone department is the income of the municipality as a whole.and  that income is not 'Profit' in the ordinary  commercialor  trading  sense of being income derived from	 capital  ofparticular individuals or shareholders; it may even be	thatthe  surplus of one department may dwindle into	 a  deficit,when  the  entire income of the municipality is	 taken	intoconsideration  Vis  a Vis its entire expenditure.   We	havealready pointed out that in the45present	 case also, the claim of the Municipality was  that,even including the income of its electricity department, themunicipal  budget for the relevant year was a  deficit	one.With regard to the second submission of; learned counsel forthe respondents, nothing turns upon the distinction  betweenobligatory and discretional functions of the municipality sofar  as	 the  nature or quality	 of  municipal	property  ormunicipal income is concerned.	The distinction referred  toabove does not entitle the municipality to treat the  incomefrom one department as though it were not part of the  wholeincome of the Municipality.  Moreover, in its true nature orquality,  such	income is not profit in the sense  in  whichthat expression has been held to be the basis for the  grantof  bonus in the Muir Mills case (supra) though the  word  "profits " occurs in s. 65 of the Municipal Act and has	beenloosely	  used	in  connection	with  State   or   municipalundertakings.This brings us to the other question whether the  principleslaid  down in the Muir Mills case (supra) for the  grant  ofbonus  can be applied in the present case.  Learned  counselfor  the respondents submitted before us that the gift	madeby  the State Government of Baroda furnished  the  necessarycapital for the municipal undertaking in question and as thereserve	 fund,	depreciation  fund  etc.  had  to  be	keptseparate, there was no difficulty in applying the principleslaid down in that decision to the facts of the present case.The  difficulties  however  arise  in  the  following	way.Whatever was given by the State Government of Baroda to	 theBaroda	Municipality became municipal property or  municipalfund under ss. 63 and 65 of-' the Act and was not capital inthe sense in which a return on paid up or working capital isto  be allowed" for in the matter of the grant of  bonus  inaccordance with the decision in the Muir Mills case (supra).Learned counsel referred us to the ordinary dictionary mean-ing  of	 the word 'capital' and referred  to  Webster's	 NewInternational Dictionary (1937 edition, page 397) where	 oneof the meanings of the word is stated to be " the amount  ofproperty owned by an individual or corporation which is usedfor business purposes."46He  submitted  that  what  was given  by  the  Baroda  StateGovernment  was capital within that meaning.  In  Palgrave'sDictionary of Political Economy, Vol. 1 (1925 edition)	page217,  it has been stated that there is probably no  term  ineconomics  which  has given rise to so much  controversy  as'capital.' The word 'capital' is connected with caput and inmedieval Latin meant the principal sum as distinct from	 theinterest.   Originally,	 the term was confined to  loans  ofmoney.	In the natural course of historical development, theterm 'capital' received a wider meaning and capital came  tobe  considered	primarily  as  a source	 of  profit  and  inordinary  thought  capital  is considered  as  wealth  whichyields	a revenue.  Later economic theories introduced	manyrefinements in the meaning of the Word	We are not concernedwith those refinements and it is unnecessary to discuss themhere.	For our purpose it is sufficient to state that	whatthe  Baroda  Municipality got from the State  Government  ofBaroda merged in and became municipal property or  municipalfund  under the provisions of the Municipal Act and was	 not-capital  on which a return had to be earned  in  accordancewith  the  principles  laid  down in  the  Muir	 Mills	case(supra).   In our opinion, it is impossible to	apply  theseprinciples  in	the case of a municipal undertaking  of	 thenature	we have under consideration here.  The	argument  oflearned	 counsel for the respondents that once it  is  foundthat  there  was capital and actual profit in the  sense  ofexcess	of earnings over outgoings from the  undertaking  inquestion,  no  distinction  can be  ,drawn  between  privateenterprise  and	 municipal enterprise, cannot  therefore  beaccepted.   In	the  -case 'before  us,	 there	was  neither'capital' nor 'profit' on which the principles laid down  inMuir  Mills  case (supra) could operate.  We  must  make  itclear  that the question is not merely one  of	terminology;that is, whether the more appropriate word to use in connec-tion  with a municipal undertaking is surplus or profit;  itis  the nature or quality of the municipal property or	fundwhich must be determinative of the question at issue, and itis on that basis that we have,come to the conclusion that inthe present case there were no47profits of one single department of the municipality out  ofwhich the respondents could claim a bonus.In the course of arguments before us a reference was made tocertain observations contained in a Report of the  Committeeon  Profit-sharing  set up by the Ministry of  Industry	 andSupply in 1948.	 With regard to the question how  Governmentundertakings  should  be  treated for  purposes	 of  profit-sharing,  the Committee said: " The answer to this  questionis  only  of academic interest, as there are  no  Governmentundertakings  in the industries we have recommended  for  anexperiment  in profit-sharing.	On the general question,  wethink that those business undertakings of Government,  whichaim  at	 making	 a  profit, and	 which	will  ordinarily  beorganised  in the form of corporations, would  automaticallycome  under any law which governs private undertakings of  asimilar	 nature."  We  do not  take  those  observations  asdeciding any question of principle; at best they express  anopinion of the members of the Committee-an opinion which  isexpressly confined to undertakings organised in the form  ofcorporations with the aim of making a profit in the ordinarytrading	  or   business	 sense.	  In  our   opinion,   thoseobservations   have  no	 apt  application  to  a   municipalundertaking  meant for the purpose of  augmenting  municipalrevenues in order to meet the municipal service demands	 andimprove	 the  amenities	 of  the  inhabitants  of  a  modernmunicipal borough.We  proceed  now  to consider the  second  argument  of	 thelearned	 Attorney-General.   This argument  depends  on	 theprovisions  of	s. 58 of the Municipal	Act.   That  sectiondeals  with  the rule-making power of the  municipality	 andproviso	 (a)  lays  down  that	no  rule  or  alteration  orrescission of a rule made shall have effect unless and untilit has been approved by the State Government.  Our attentionhas  been  drawn  to cls. (c), (f) and (1) of  s.  58  whichenable the municipality to make rules relating, inter  alia,to  salaries and other allowances of the staff	of  officersand  servants employed by the municipality; their  pensions,gratuities  or compassionate allowances on  retirement,	 andprovident48fund  etc.  It was pointed out that under s. 58	 the  BarodaMunicipality  had no power to make rules for the payment  ofbonus  to its employees, because the word ' allowances'	 didnot  include  bonus; and even if such rules could  be  made,they  required	the sanction of the State  Government  underproviso (a) referred to above.	It was further submitted  bythe  learned  Attorney-General that there were	no  existingrules  with  regard to the payment of bonus to	a  municipalemployee.  In view of these provisions the learned Attorney-General	 argued	 that it was not open to a Labour  Court  orTribunal  to  direct  the payment of bonus  to	a  municipalemployee.   We cannot accept this argument as correct.	 Thedemand for bonus as an industrial claim is not dealt with bythe  Municipal	Act;  it is dealt  with	 by  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947.	Therefore,  it	is  not	 a  relevantconsideration whether there are provisions in the  MunicipalAct with regard to payment of bonus.  The provisions of	 theMunicipal   Act	 are  relevant	only  for  the	purpose	  ofdetermining the quality or nature of the municipal  propertyor  fund; those provisions cannot be stretched	beyond	thatlimited	 purpose for defeating a claim of bonus.  We do	 nottherefore  think  that	the absence  of	 provisions  in	 theMunicipal  Act	for  the  payment  of  bonus  to   municipalemployees  is a consideration which is either  determinativeor conclusive of the question at issue before us.  If we hadcome  to  a  different	conclusion  as	respects  the  firstcontention  of	the learned Attorney-General and  his  thirdcontention  to	be  referred to presently,  the	 absence  ofsuitable   provisions  relating	 to  payment  of  bonus	  tomunicipal  employees  in the Municipal Act  would  not	havestood  in  the	way  of	 our  allowing	the  claim  of	 therespondents for the payment of bonus.We now proceed to consider the third and last contention  ofthe learned Attorney-General.  This contention centres roundthe question whether one department of the municipality	 canbe isolated and a distinction made between the employees  ofthat department and other departments in the matter of the49payment	 of bonus.  We have already pointed out	 that  underthe  Municipal	Act  a	municipality  may  perform   variousfunctions,  some  obligatory  and  some	 discretional.	 Theactivities  may	 be  of a composite  nature:'  some  of	 thedepartments  may  be mostly  earning  departments  and	somemostly	spending  departments.For  example,  the  departmentwhich  collects municipal taxes or other municipal  revenue,is  essentially an earning department whereas  the  sanitarydepartment  or	other service department  is  essentially  aspending department.  There may indeed be departments  wherethe earning and spending may almost balance each other.	  Inspite  of these distinctions in the internal arrangement  ofdepartments within a municipality, the property or income ofthe municipality remains of the same nature or quality,	 andit  will be obviously unfair to draw a	distinction  betweenthe employees of one department and the employees of anotherdepartment  for the payment of bonus.  The result of such  adistinction  will be that the staff of the spending  depart-ments will never be entitled to any bonus at all and insteadof promoting peace and harmony amongst the employees of	 themunicipality,  a  distinction  like  the  one  suggested  bylearned	 counsel for the respondents will create unrest	 anddiscontent.   Learned counsel for the respondents  submittedbefore	us that beyond the fact of single  ownership,  therewas  no other connection between the electricity  departmentof  the Municipality and its other departments.	 We  do	 notthink that this submission is correct.	Under the  MunicipalAct  the  total income and expenditure of  the	municipalityform one integrated whole; they are both for the purposes ofthe  Act;  and	if  the workmen of  a  service	or  spendingdepartment do not work efficiently with the result that	 theexpenses  on  the obligatory functions of  the	municipalityincrease,  that	 inefficiency is bound	to  affect--even  todwindle	 or wipe out-the surplus of an	earning	 department.For  a	true  appreciation of the financial  position  of  amunicipality,  its  total  income and  expenditure  must  beconsidered;  we	 must look at the whole	 picture,  the	partwhich is in shade as well as the part750which has caught the light for a correct appraisal ofthe picture.Learned counsel for the respondents referred us to a  numberof  decisions  of Labour Tribunals where a  distinction	 wasmade  between a parent concern and subsidiary  concerns,  oreven  between  different units of the same concern,  in	 thematter	of payment of bonus: Rohit Mills Ltd. v. Sri  R.  S.Parmar(1),  Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company's  Indian  StaffOrganisation  v. Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company  Ltd.	(2),Ahmedabad  Mfg.	 & Calico Ptg.	Co. Ltd.  V.  Their  Workmen(a), Shaparia Dock and Steel Company v. Their Workers(,) andMinakshi  Mills Ltd. v. Their Workmen Recently, we have	 hadoccasion  to consider this question in Messrs.	Burn &	Co.,Calcutta  v.  Their Employees (6) where we pointed  out	 theharmful	 consequences  which  might arise  if  an  invidiousdistinction   were  made  amongst  employees  of  the	sameindustry.   Considering the question with reference  to	 thefacts  of  the	present case, it is clear  to  us  that	 thedifferent activities of the Baroda Municipality	 constitutedone  integrated	 whole and the activities of  the  differentdepartments  of	 the  Municipality  were  not  distinct	  orunconnected activities so as to permit the isolation of	 onedepartment  from another or of an earning department from  aspending  department.	From this point of  view  also,	 theclaim of bonus was not maintainable.Some  decisions	 were  brought to our notice  in  which	 thequestion  of  the  payment of bonus to	their  employees  byElectric  Supply Companies, not run as a State or  municipalundertaking, was considered with reference to the provisionsof the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, and one of the pointswhich fell for consideration there was the interpretation ofclause	XVII (2) (b) (xi) of Schedule VI of the	 Electricity(Supply)  Act, 1948.  It is not necessary to consider  thosedecisions in the(1)  [1951] 1 L.L.J 463.(2)  [1955] 1 L.L.J. 154.(3)  [1951] 2 L.L.J. 765.(4)  [1954] 2 L.L.J. 208.(5)  [1953] 2 L.L.J. 520.(6)  C.A. 325 Of 1955, decided on October 11, 1956.51present case, because they have no bearing on the  questionswhich we have to consider in this case.For  the  reasons given above, we hold that  the  IndustrialTribunal  came to the correct decision that the	 respondentsemployed  in  the  electricity	department  of	the   BarodaMunicipality were not entitled to the bonus claimed, and theLabour	Appellate Tribunal came to an erroneous decision  onthat  question	in its order dated November  23,  1955.	  Weaccordingly allow the appeal and set aside the order of	 theLabour	Appellate  Tribunal.  In the circumstances  of	thiscase,  we direct that the parties will bear their own  coststhroughout.Appeal allowed.