PETITIONER:SRI RAM RAM NARAIN MEDHI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:18/11/1958BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  459		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 489 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC 519	 (12,13) R	    1960 SC 796	 (3) F	    1960 SC1008	 (10) R	    1960 SC1080	 (16,75) RF	    1961 SC 954	 (23) R	    1961 SC1517	 (1) R	    1962 SC 137	 (8) R	    1962 SC 694	 (25,27,67) R	    1962 SC 723	 (42) R	    1962 SC 821	 (5,10,54) R	    1965 SC 632	 (11) R	    1967 SC1110	 (11,12) R	    1967 SC1373	 (40) RF	    1970 SC 126	 (5) R	    1970 SC 398	 (2) R	    1970 SC 439	 (6) D	    1971 SC1992	 (9,16) R	    1972 SC 425	 (30) R	    1972 SC2284	 (19) RF	    1973 SC2734	 (32) D	    1974 SC 543	 (14) RF	    1975 SC1193	 (17) RF	    1979 SC1055	 (12) RF	    1981 SC1881	 (1) R	    1982 SC 149	 (254) F	    1983 SC 643	 (6) R	    1983 SC 648	 (2) RF	    1983 SC1213	 (10) E&D	    1990 SC1771	 (13) R	    1992 SC  96	 (14)ACT:Land Reform-Distribution   of  ownership  and	control	  ofagricultural   land--Purchase	by   tenants--Validity	  ofenactment--Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Amendment)Act, 1956 (Bom. XIII of 1956), ss. 32 to 32R-Constitution ofIndia,	Arts.  14, 19, 31, 31A, Entry 18, List	II,  SeventhSchedule.HEADNOTE:The petitions challenged the constitutional validity of	 theBombay Tenancy and Agricultural lands (Amendment) Act, 1956,(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 303.62490(Bom.	XIII of 1956) which, in further amending the  BombayTenancy	 and  Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 (Bom.   LXVII  of1948),	;Ought	to distribute the ownership and	 control  ofagricultural  lands  in	 implementation	 of  the   Directiveprinciples  of State policy laid down by Arts. 38 and 39  ofthe  Constitution.   The impugned Act  sought  to  distributequitably the lands between the landholders and the tenants,except	 where	 the  landholder  required  the	  same	 forcultivation  by himself, by way of compulsory  _Purchase  ofall  surplus  lands by tenants in  possession  thereof	witheffect	from April 1, 1957, called the 'tiller's day'.	 Thebasic  idea underlying the Act was to prevent  concentrationof agricultural lands in the hands of the landholders.	 TheAct  thus, being a legislation in respect of rights  in	 andover land, affected the-relation between landlord and tenantand provided for the transfer and alienation of agriculturallands.	The petitioners, who were landholders as defined  bys.  2(9)  of  the  Act	contended  that	 (1)  the   impugnedlegislation   was  beyond  the	competence  of	 the   StateLegislature,  (2) that, not being protected by Art. 31A,  ofthe  Constitution, it infringed Arts. 14, 19 and 31  of	 theConstitution  and  (3)	that it was a  piece  of  colourablelegislation  vitiated  in part by  excessive  delegation  oflegislative power to the State.	 On behalf of the respondentit was urged that the impugned legislation fell within Entry18  in List 11 Of the Seventh Schedule to the  Constitution,that  'provided	 for the extinguishment or  modification  ofrights	to estates and was as such protected by Art. 31A  ofthe Constitution and that there was no excessive  delegationof legislative power.Held, that it was well settled that the heads of legislationspecified in Entry 18 in List 11 of the Seventh Schedule  tothe  Constitution  should not be construed in a	 narrow	 andpedantic  sense	 but  should be given a	 large	and  liberalinterpretation.	  There could, therefore, be no	 doubt	thatthe impugned Act fell within the purview of Entry 18 in List11 of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and the	pleaof legislative incompetence must fail.British	 Coal  Corporation v. The King, (1935)	A.C.  500  ;United	Provinces  v . Atiqa Begum, [1940]  F.C.R.  110	 andNavinchandra  Mafatlal	v. The Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Bombay City, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 829, relied on.There  could be no doubt that the Bombay Land Revenue  Code,1879, was the existing law relating to land tenures in forcein the State of Bombay within the meaning of Art.  31A(2)(a)of  the Constitution and the word 'estate' as defined by  S.2(5)  Of the Code clearly applied not only to lands held  bythe  various tenure-holders of alienated lands but  also  toland-holders and occupants of unalienated lands.  There	 wasno   ambiguity	in  that  definition  and,   therefore,	  nojustification  for putting a narrower construction  on	thatword  so as to mean the land-holders of the former  categoryalone  and  not of the latter; even if there  was  any,	 thewider  meaning of the word was the one to be adopted in	 thecontext of the objective of the Act.491Case law discussed.The word 'landholder' as defined in s. 2(9) of the Act	alsomade no distinction between alienated and unalienated  landsand  showed  that  the interest of such	 a  landholder	fellwithin	the definition of 'estate' contained in s.  2(5)  ofthe Code.There was no warrant for the proposition that extinguishmentor modification of any rights in estates as contemplated  byArt.  31A(1)(a)	 of  the Constitution must  mean  only	whathappened  in the process of acquisition of any estate or  ofany  rights  therein  by the State.   The  language  of	 theArticle was clear and unambiguous and showed that it treatedthe two concepts as distinct and different from each other.Sections 32 to 32R of the impugned Act clearly	contemplatedthe  vesting  of the title in the tenure on  the    titter'sday,  defeasible  only on certain  specified  contingencies.They  were designed to bring about an extinguishment  or  inany  event  a modification of the landlord's rights  in	 theestate	 within	 the  meaning  of  Art.	 31A(1)(a)  of	 theConstitution.	 The  impugned	Act,  therefore,   was	 notvulnerable  as being violative of Arts.14, 19 and 31 of	 theConstitution.	It would not be correct to contend that	 thesections   merely   contemplated   a   suspension   of	 thelandholders' right and not their extinguishment.Thakur	Raghubir  Singh	 v. Court of  Wards,  Ajmer,  [1953]S.C.R. 1049, held inapplicable.Where	the  Legislature  settled  the	policy	 and   broadprinciples of the legislation, there could be no bar againstleaving	 matters of detail to be fixed by the executive	 andsuch  delegation of power could not vitiate  the  enactment.In the instant case, since the Legislature had laid down thepolicy	of  the Act in the preamble,  enunciated  the  broadprinciples in ss. 5 and 6 and fixed the four criteria in  s.7  itself,  the	 last of which had necessarily	to  be	readejusdem	 generis with the others, it was not correct to	 saythat  the  impugned Act by s. 7 had  conferred	uncontrolledpower  on the State Government to vary the ceiling  area  orthe  economic  holding	or  that s. 7  was  vitiated  by  anexcessive delegation of legislative power to the State.Parshram Damodhar v. State of Bombay, A.I.R. 1957 Bom.	257,disapproved.Dr.   N. B. Khare v. The State of Delhi, [1950] S.C.R.	519;The State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Saykar, [1952]  S.C.R.284  and Pannalal Binjraj v. Union of India,  [1957]  S.C.R.233, referred to.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 13 & 38. 41 of 57	 and55 of 1958.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental rights.V.   M.	 Limaye	 and S. S. Shukla, for the  petitioners	 (InPetitions Nos. 13, 38-411/57).492Purshottam   Tricumdas	and  J.	 B.  Dadachanji,   for	 thepetitioner (In Petition No. 55/58).H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,H.  J.	Umrigar,  K.  L. Hathi and R.  H.  Dhebar,  for	 therespondent.1958.  November 18.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyBHAGWATI,  J.-These  six  petitions under  Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution  challenge the vires of the Bombay Tenancy	 andAgricultural  Lands  (Amendment) Act, 1956  (Bom.   XIII  of1956) (hereinafter referred to as the " impugned Act ").  Itwas  an	 Act  further  to  amend  the  Bombay  Tenancy	 andAgricultural   Lands  Act,  1948  (Bom.	  LXVII	  of   1948)(hereinafter called the 1948 Act ").The petitioners are citizens of India and landholders withinthe  meaning of the 1948 Act holding several acres  of	landwithin	the  State of Bombay out of which a  few  acres	 areunder  their  own cultivation, the bulk of the	lands  beingunder  the cultivation of tenantsexcept in the case of	-thepetitioners  in Petition No. 58 of 1958 where the  whole  ofthe lands are under the cultivation of tenants.The  1948 Act had been passed by the State Legislature as  ameasure of agrarian reform on December 28, 1948, with a viewto amend the law relating to tenancies of agricultural landsand  to	 make certain other provisions in  regard  to  thoselands and the objectives sought to be achieved were thus setout in the second paragraph of the preamble:-"  AND WHEREAS on account of the neglect of a landholder  ordisputes   between  a  landholder  and	his   tenants,	 thecultivation of his estate has seriously suffered, or for thepurpose	 of improving the economic and social conditions  ofpeasants or ensuring the full and efficient use of land	 foragricultural purposes, it is expedient to assume  managementof  estates held by landholders and to regulate	 and  imposerestrictions on the transfer of agricultural lands, dwellinghouses, sites and lands appurtenant thereto belonging to  oroccupied by agriculturists, agricultural labourers and(1)		       493artisans  in the Province of Bombay and to  make  provisionsfor	  certain      other	  purposes	 hereinafterappearing................Section 2(8) of the said Act defined " Land " to mean:"(a)  land  which  is used for	agricultural  purposes,	 andincludes-(a)  the  sites of farm buildings appurtenant to such  land;and used for agricultural purposes, and(b).........................................................(i) the sites of dwelling houses occupied by agriculturists,agricultural  labourers or artisans and land appurtenant  tosuch dwelling houses.(ii)........................................................""Landholder  "	was defined in s. 2(9) of the  said  Act  tomean:-"a zamindar, jagirdar, saranjandar, inamdar, talukdar, malikor a khot or any person not hereinbefore specified who is  aholder	of land or who is interested in land, and  whom	 theState  Government has declared on account of the extent	 andthe value of the land or his interests therein to be a land-bolder for the purposes of this Act."Under  s.  2(21) of the said Act the words  and	 expressionsused  in  the Act but not defined were to have	the  meaningassigned to them in the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879,	 andthe Transfer of Property Act, 1882, as the case may be.With  a	 view  to achieve the objective	 of  establishing  asocialistic  pattern  of  society in the  State	 within	 themeaning of Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution, a furthermeasure	 of  agrarian  reform  was  enacted  by	 the   StateLegislature,  being the impugned Act, hereinbefore  referredto,  which was designed to bring about such distribution  ofthe  ownership and control of agricultural lands as best  tosubserve  the common good thus eliminating concentration  ofwealth and means of production to the common detriment.	 Thesaid  Act received the assent of the President on March	 16,1956, was published in the Bombay Government494Gazette	 on March 29, 1956, and came into  force  throughoutthe State on August 1, 1956.In  about November, 1956, certain landholders from  Kolhapurand  Sholapur  districts  in  the  State  of  Bombay   filedpetitions  in  the Bombay High Court under Art. 226  of	 theConstitution   challenging  the	 constitutionality  of	 theimpugned  Act on various grounds.' A Division Bench  of	 theBombay	High Court pronounced its judgment on  February	 21,1957, dismissing those petitions with costs except in regardto a declaration as regards the invalidity of section 88D ofthe  Act.   The	 petitioners herein  thereupon	filed  thesepetitions under Art. 32 of the Constitution challenging	 thevires of the impugned Act and praying for a writ of mandamusagainst	 the State of Bombay ordering them to  forbear	fromenforcing  or  taking any steps in enforcement of  the	act,costs and further  reliefs.Petition  No.  13  of 1957 appears to  have  been  filed  onDecember  3,  1956, but effective steps therein	 were  takenonly when an application for, stay with a prayer for an	 ex-parte order being C.M.P. No. 359 of 1957 was filed herein onMarch 21, 1957.	 Petitions Nos. 38 to 41 of 1957 were  filedon March 21, 1957, and Petition No. 55 of 1958 was filed  onMarch 19, 1958.All  these petitions followed a common pattern and the	maingrounds	 of attack were: that the State Legislature was	 notcompetent to pass the said Act, the topic of legislation notbeing covered by any 'entry in the State List; that the saidAct  was beyond the am bit of Art. 31-A of the	Constitutionand  was therefore vulnerable as infringing the	 fundamentalrights	enshrined in Arts. 14, 19 and 31 thereof;  that	 theprovisions of the said Act in fact infringed the fundamentalrights	of the petitioners conferred upon them by Arts.	 14.119  and  31 of the Constitution; that the said	 Act  was  apiece  of colourable legislation and in any event a part  ofthe provisions thereof -suffered from the vice of  excessivedelegation  of legislative power.  The answer of  the  Statewas  that  the impugned Act was covered by Entry No.  18  inList 11 of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, that itwas  a	piece  of  legislation	for  the  extinguishment  ormodification of495rights in relation to estates within the definition  thereofin  Art. 31-A of the Constitution and that therefore it	 wasnot open to challenge under Arts. 14, 19 and 31 thereof	 andthat  it was neither a piece of colourable  legislation	 nordid  any part thereof come within the mischief of  excessivedelegation.As to the legislative competence of the State Legislature topass the impugned Act the question lies within a very narrowcompass.  As already stated, the impugned Act was a  furthermeasure	 of agrarian reform enacted with a view	 to  furtheramend  the 1948 Act and the object of the enactment  was  tobring about such distribution of the ownership and,  controlof  agricultural lands as best to subserve the common  good.This  object  was sought to be achieved	 by  fixing  ceilingareas  of  lands  which could be held by a per	son  and  byprescribing  what  was an economic holding.   It  sought  toequitably  distribute the lands between the landholders	 andthe  tenants and except in those cases where the  landholderwanted	the  land for cultivating the  same  personally	 forwhich due provision was made in the Act, transferred by	 wayof  compulsory	purchase all the other lands to	 tenants  inpossession of the same with effect from April 1, 1957, whichwas called the " tillers day ". Provision 'Was also made fordisposal  of balance of lands after purchase by tenants	 andthe basic idea underlying the provisions of the impugned Actwas  to prevent the concentration of agricultural  lands  inthe  hands  of	landholders to the  common  detriment.	 Thetiller	or  the cultivator was brought into  direct  contactwith the State eliminating thereby the landholders who	werein  the	 position  of intermediaries.	The  enactment	thusaffected the relation between landlord and tenant,  providedfor the transfer and-alienation of agricultural lands, aimedat land improvement and was broadly stated a legislation  inregard	 to   the  rights  in	or   over   land:-categoriesspecifically  referred	to  in Entry 18 in List	 11  of	 theSeventh	 Schedule to the Constitution, which  specifies	 thehead of legislation as " land, that is to say, rights in  orover  land, land tenures including the relation of  landlordand tenant, and the collection of496rents;	transfer and alienation of agricultural	 land;	landimprovement and agricultural loans; colonization ".It  is well settled that these heads of	 legislation  shouldnot  be construed in a narrow and pedantic sense but  shouldbe  given  a  large  and  liberal  interpretation.   As	 wasobserved  by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council  inBritish Coal Corporation v. The King (1):-"Indeed,  in interpreting a constituent or  organic  statutesuch  as the Act, that construction most beneficial  to	 thewidest possible amplitude of its powers must be adopted."The  Federal  Court also in the United	Provinces  V.  AtiqaBegum (2) pointed out that none of the items in the Lists isto  be	read in a narrow or restricted sense and  that	eachgeneral	 word should be held to extend to all  ancillary  orsubsidiary  matters which can fairly and reasonably be	saidto  be	comprehended  in it.   This  Court  in	NavinchandraMafatlal v. The Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay City	 (3)also expressed the same opinion and stated:-"The cardinal rule of interpretation, however, is that wordsshould	be read in their ordinary, natural  and	 grammaticalmeaning subject to this rider, that in construing words in aconstitutional	enactment conferring legislative  power	 themost  liberal construction should be put upon words so	thatthe  same may have effect in their widest  amplitude."	(Seealso Thakur Amar Singhji v. State of Rajasthan(4)).Having	regard to the principle of  construction  enunciatedabove, it is clear that the impugned Act is covered by Entry18  in List II of the Seventh Schedule to  the	Constitutionand is a legislation with reference to "land " and this pleaof  legislative	 incompetence of the  State  Legislature  toenact the impugned Act therefore fails.If,  then, the State Legislature was competent to enact	 theimpugned  Act,	is the Act ultra vires the  Constitution  asinfringing any of the fundamental(1)   [1935] A.C. 500,518.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 829, 836, 837.(2)   [1940] F.C.R. 110, 134.(4)   [1955]2S.C.R 303,329.497rights conferred upon the petitioners ? In the course Of thearguments  before  us learned counsel  for  the	 petitionersconfined  their attack only to the constitutionality of	 ss.5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 17A, 31A to 31D and 3 to 32R of the  impugnedAct  as violative of the fundamental right guaranteed  underArt.  19(1)(g) of the Constitution.  The first	question  toconsider in this context however is whether the impugned Actis protected by Art. 31-A of the Constitution because if  itin  so	protected, no challenge on the score of	 the  provi-sions  thereof	violating  Arts. 14,19 and 31  of  the	Con-stitution would be available to the petitioners.The  relevant  portions	 of  Art.  31-A	 which	fall  to  beconsidered here read as follows:-"(1) Notwithstanding  anything contained in Art. 13, no	 lawproviding for:-(a)  the  acquisition by the State of any estate or  of	 anyrights therein or the extinguishment or modification of	 anysuch rights.................. shall be deemed to be void  onthe  ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes  away  orabridges any of the rights conferred by article 14,  article19 or article 31.Provided  that	where  such  law  is  a	 law  made  by	 theLegislature of a State, the provisions of this article shallnot apply thereto unless such law, having been reserved	 forthe  consideration  of	the  President,	 has  received	 hisassent...............(2)  In this article,-(a)the expression " estate " shall, in relation to any localarea, have the same meaning as that expression or its  localequivalent has in the existing law relating to land  tenuresin  force  in that area, and shall also include	 any  jagir,inam,  or muafi or other similar grant and in the States  ofMadras and TravancoreCochin any janmam rights.(b)  the  expression  " rights " in relation to	 an  estate,shall  include	any  rights vesting in	a  proprietor,	sub-proprietor, under-proprietor, tenure-holder, raiyat,63inder-raiyat  or  other	 intermediary  and  any	 rights	  orPrivileges in respect of land revenue."The question which we have to address ourselves intially  iswhether the lands held by the petitioners,who are admittedlylandholders  within the 8 Act, are of the term contained  ins. 2.(9) of the 194 "estates " within the meaning of Art. 31A of the constitution.Before	we launch upon that enquiry it would perhaps  be  ofhelP  to  note	how the	 various  land	tenures	 originated.Baden-Powell  in  his Land-Systems of  British	India  (1892Ed.), Vol. 1, dealing with the general view of land  tenurestraced the origin and growth at @p. 97 of different  tenuresin the manner following at pp. 97-99 (Chapter IV):-"  4.  Effects of Land-Revenue Administration  and  Revenue-farming.  Then again the greater Oriental governments  which-preceded  ours,  have	always, in  one	 -form	or  another,derived the bulk of their State-revenues and Royal  propertyfrom  the land.	 In one system known to us, "Royal  lands  "were  allotted in the principal villages, and this fact	 mayhave suggested to the Mughals their plan of allotting spcialfarms  and villages to furnish the privy Purse, and has	 hadother  survivals.   But, speaking generally,  the  universalplan of taking	revenue was by taking a share of the  actualgrain  heap  on the the threshing-floor	 from  each  paymentlevied	on  each  estate or each field	as  the	 case  mightbe...............   To	collect	 this  revenue,	 the   rulerappointed or recognized not only a headman and accountant ineach  village, but also a hierarchy of graded  officials  indistricts  and	minor  divisions  of  territory	 formed	 foradministrative	 purposes.    These  officers	were   oftenremunerated  by	 holdings  of  land, and  a  class  of	land-tenures  will	be found in some parts of India	 owning	 itsorigin to these hereditary official holding s. Not only	 so,but  during  the  decline which	 Oriental  governments	haveusually	 undergone, the Revenue official have been  commonlyfound  to  merge in, or be superseded,	by  revenue-farmers-persons who499contracted for a certain sum of revenue to be paid int,	 theTreasury from a given area, I as representing the State duesexigible  from	the land-holdings within  that	area.	Suchrevenue-farmers,  or officials, whatever their origin,	havealways tended to absorb the interest of the land-holders andto become in time the virtual landlords over them.Nor is it only that landlord tenures arise in this way.	  Nosooner does the superior right take shape than we find	manycurious	 new tenures created by the landlord or arising	 outof his attempts to conciliate or provide for certain eminentclaims in the grade below him.S.   5. Effects of Assignment or Remission of LandRevenue.Yet  another class of tenures arises in connection with	 theState  Revenue-administration;	and that is when  the  rulereither	excuses	 an  existing land-holder  from	 paying	 hisrevenue,  either  wholly  or in part; or "  alienates  "  orassigns the revenue of a certain estate or tract of  countryin  favour of some chief, or other person of importance,  orto provide funds for some special objects, or to serve as  arecompense for services to be rendered.At  first such grants are carefully regulated, are for	lifeonly, and strictly kept to their purpose, and to the  amountfixed.	 But  as matters go on, and the ruler is  a  bad  orunscrupulous  one, his treasury is empty, and he makes	suchgrants to avoid the dificulty of finding a cash salary.	 Thegrants become permanent and hereditary; they are also issuedby officials who have no right to make them; and not only dothey  then  result  in landlord tenures	 and  other  curiousrights, but are a burden to after times, and have  furnisheda  most	 troublesome legacy to our own	Government  when  itfound  the revenues eaten up by grantees whose	titles	wereinvalid, and whose pretensions, though grown old in times ofdisorder, were inadmissible.Such  grants  may have begun with no title to the  land	 butonly a right to the revenue, but want of500supervision and control has resulted in the grantee  seizingthe landed right also.Here  we find the distinction between the State owned  landswhich  are  unalienated where the tenures arise out  of	 theexigencies  of	revenue collection and alienated  lands	 therevenue	 whereof is remitted either wholly or in part or  inother  words  "	 alienated " or	 assigned  to  grantees	 forvarious purposes.Various	  land	 tenures  thus	developed  and	 series	  ofproprietorships came into existence.  The main tenures whichthe  British found when they came into power comprised:	 (1)the Khas or tenure by Government; (2)the Raiyatwari  tenure;(3)  the Zamindari or landlord tenure and (4) the  Taluqdarior double tenure.It  is	interesting to note in this connection that  in	 thetable compiled by Baden-Powell in Vol.III of his Book at  p.142  giving some idea of the distribution of  the  differentclasses of landed estates in Madras the different classes oflanded	 estates   described  therein  included	  not	onlyZamindaris  but	 also  " estates " hold	 by  Raiyats  payingdiverse sums as and by way of land revenue.So far as the area within the State of Bombay was  concernedthe position is thus summed up in Dande-kar's Law of Land Tenures, Vol. 1 at p. 12:-Section III.  Classification of land according to theinterest of the holder:"Land is either Government land or not Government land; thatis,  it is either unalienated or alienated.  The  expressionfor unalienated land is khalsa or ryatawari in some parts asopposed to dumala or inam lands, that is, alienated lands InGujrat Government lands are called " sarkari " as opposed to"baharkhali"lands   meaning   alienated	  lands-lands	 theproduce.of  which  had	not  to be  brought  to	 the  commonthreshing  ground.   In	 some parts of	Gujrat	there  are,"talpad	" (Government) lands as opposed to " Wanta "  lands.In old Regulations two kinds of land have been referred	 to,namely, malguzarry land and lakhiraj land.  The former meantland paying501assessment to Government, whereas the latter meant land freefrom  payment of assessment.  Khalsa land in  the  permanentoccupation  of holders was denominated, before	the  survey-settlements,  in the different parts of 'the  Presidency  bythe expressions mirasi, dhara, suti and muli.  I  Governmentarable	land not in the permanent occupation of an  occupantwas  and  is  described by the	name  sheri.   In  alienatedvillages,  lands corresponding to Government "sheri "  landsare denominated by the expressions, "sheri " ".Khas Kamath "and  " Ghar Khedu ". Lands in leasehold or  farmed  villagesare called khoti lands.	 Lands which are given under  leasesand  the  assessment  of which is  regulated  by  the  termsthereof are called kauli lands."It  will be observed that Mirasi, Dhara, Suti and Muli	wereall  tenures  in regard to unalienated	lands,	the  tenure-holders	 being permanent holders of land  having  hereditaryinterests  in  their holdings. , The Khoti  tenures  in	 theKonkan and the Bhagdari and Narvadari tenures in some  partsof Gujrat were also tenures in regard to unalienated  lands,there venue being assessed on those lands on entire villagesand not on specific pieces of land either in lump or on	 thebasis  of a fixed Bighoti assessment on each field  and	 thetenure-holders being responsible for the payment of the, sumin certain specified modes.  The general prevailing  tenure,however,  was the Raiyatwari tenure where the Raiyat or	 thetenant	had  the right of an occupant in his  holding.	 Theright of an occupant was a heritable right and on the  deathof a registered occupant the name of his heir was entered inhis  place.   All  these were land  tenures  in	 respect  ofunalienated  lands and the Bombay Survey and Settlement	 Act(Bom.  1 of 1865) passed in 1865. applied, generally to	 thesame.	There were of course certain Acts which	 dealt	withspecific   tenures  mentioned  above,  e.g.,  Bhagdari	 andNarvadari   Tenures  Act  (Bom.	  V  of	 1862),	 and   KhotiSettlement Act (Bom. 1 of 1880); but by and large they	weretenures in regard to unalienated lands and were governed  bythe  Bombay  Survey and Settlement Act, 1865.  In  1879	 theState Legislature502enacted, the Bombay Land Revenue Code (Bom.  V of 1879) witha view to consolidate and amend the law relating to  RevenueOfficers, to the assessment and recovery of land revenue andto other matters connected with land revenue administration.This  Act  extended  to the whole of  the  State  of  Bombayexcluding the City of Bombay and certain other areas thereinmentioned.   We	 shall	have occasion to  refer	 to  certainprovisions of this Act hereafter.Turning	 now  to  alienated lands  in  which  category	werecomprised  lands not belonging to government and  lands	 notpaying	revenue to government which were exceptions  to	 theprinciples of State proprietorship and of liability of land-holders	 to pay land revenue to government we find that	 thealienations  were classified as: (1) political tenures	suchas  Jagirs and Saranjams; (2) Service Inams ;  (3)  PersonalInams	and   (4)  Religious  endowments.    The   principalalienations  were  Inams, Jagirs or  Saranjams	and  Watans.Each  of  them was considered as a tenure, had got  its	 ownhistory,  its  own  features  and  peculiarities.    Summarysettlements  were  effected  by the  government	 with  thesetenure-holders	and their rights as such  recognized.  Therewere Taluqdari tenures or estates in Gujrat which also	cameunder this category and it may be noted that several  piecesof  legislation	 were  passed by the  State  Legislature  inregard	to those several tenures of alienated lands, e.	 g.,Titles	to  Rent-Free  Estates	Act  (Bom.   XI	 of   1852);Ahmedabad   Taluqdar's	Act  (Bom.   VI	 of  1862);   BombayHereditary Offices Act (Bom.  III of 1874); Broach and KairaEncumbered Estates Act (Bom.  XIV of 1877); Broach and KairaEncumbered  Estates  Act (Bom.	XXI of 1881);  Matadars	 Act(Bom.	VI  of 1887) and Gujrat Taluqdars Act (Bom.   VI  of1888).	 Our attention was also drawn in this connection  tothe  various Acts passed by the State  Legislature  (between1949 and 1955) abolishing the several land tenures in Bombaywhere  the  government was not in direct  contact  with	 thetiller	of  the	 soil  but there  was  an  interposition  ofintermediaries	between	 them,	the  intermediaries   havingleased out parts of503the  lands to the tenants who actually cultivated  the	soiland it was urged that the interests of these  intermediarieswere estates properly so called.It is to be noticed, however, that the several land  tenureswhich  were thus abolished were not only tenures in  respectof  alienated  lands but also  comprise	 unalienated  lands,e.g.,  the Bombay Bhagdari and Narvadari  Tenures  AbolitionAct, 1949 (Bom.	 XXXII of 1949); The Bombay Khoti  AbolitionAct,  1949  (Bom.   VI	of  1950)  and	the  Bombay   MergedTerritories  (Janjira and Bhor) Khoti Tenure Abolition	Act,1953  (Bom.  LXXI of 1953).  There was no  distinction	madethus  between land tenures in regard to alienated lands	 andthose in regard to unalienated lands.  It may also be  notedthat  all  these Acts followed a common pattern,  viz.,	 theabolition  of these land tenures, award of  compensation  tothe tenure holders whose tenures were thus abolished and theestablishment of direct relations between the government  onthe  one hand and the tenure-holders cultivating  the  landspersonally  and	 the  tenants cultivating the  soil  on	 theother.	 All these persons, thus cultivating the  soil	weregiven  the status of occupants and direct  relationship	 wasthus  established  between the government and  them.   TheseActs  so  far as our present purpose is concerned  are	onlymentioned to show the different types of land tenures  whichexisted	 in the State of Bombay prior to their abolition  asaforesaid.These  were the various land tenures known in the  State  ofBombay	and we may at this stage appropriately refer to	 thestatistics (1886-87) of these tenures given by	Baden-Powellin Vol.III of his said Book atp. 251504-----------------------------------------------------------Tenure	-- Number of -- Number of -- Area in -- Remarks.   estates or	Village.     acres   holding------------------------------------------------------------Village landholders:      1284,238	30,118 1/2   475,016	I have addedRaiyatwari			   (occupied	togetherVillage.			   land only)  these					paying at					full rates					and------------------------------------------     the much				       smaller number				       paying at				       privileged				       rates the				       latter				       are 213,405				       and how far				       these repre-				       sent bhagdar				     etc.,etc.,I have				     no means of tra-					   velling.Overlord      530 1/2	530 1/2	 1,419,397tuners				(gross area)Taluqdari      41	 41	 79334MewasiUdhad	       123	 123	  194,830JambandiKot	    17,32 1/2  17,32 1/2  2160,517Issafat		7	  7	  3608Revenue-free 2165 3/4  2165 3/4	  4483,343  These refer toi.e.inam &				    whole villagesJagir					    or estates not				     to revenue				     privileges				     on individual				     fields,etc.,				     which are				    includeded				    in village				    land holding.505It  is to be noted that the holdings of the  landholders  inRyatwari villages apart from others were also styled thereinas estates or holdings.It was vehemently urged before us by learned counsel for thepetitioners  that  the expression " estate "  aptly  appliedonly  to  lands	 held  by  the	various	 tenure	 holders  ofalienated  lands  above referred to, and that it  could	 notapply to the holdings of occupants who had merely a right ofoccupancy in specific pieces of unalienated lands.  The word" estate " had been defined in the Bombay Land Revenue Code,1879,  in s. 2(5) to mean : " any interest in lands and	 theaggregate of such interests vested in a person or  aggregateof  persons  capable of holding the same," and	would  primafacie cover not only an interest in alienated lands but alsoin  unalienated	 lands.	  It  was  however  urged  that	 theexpression  "  estate " should be construed  in	 a  narrowersense	having	regard	to  the	 legislative   history	 andparticularly  to the fact that the lands held by the  tenureholders	 of  alienated	lands only had prior  to  1879	beenrecognized as estates and the holding of an occupant was nottreated	 as  such.  The distinction thus sought to  be	madebetween	  holders  of  unalienated  lands  and	holders	  ofalienated lands. is not of much consequence because even  inregard to unalienated lands besides the occupants there weretenure holders called Bhagdars and Narwadars and Khotes	 whohad  interests	in lands held by them  under  those  severaltenures	 which lands were unalienated lands.  The  interestswhich these tenure holders enjoyed in the lands held by themwere " estates " and it could not therefore be predicated ofthe  expression	 "estate"  that it could  only	be  used  inconnection  with alienated lands.  If this  distinction	 wastherefore of no avail, we have only got to consider if thereis any reason why a narrow interpretation should be put uponthe  expression	 "estate" as suggested by  the	petitioners.Reliance   was	placed	by  the	 learned  counsel  for	 thepetitioners  on	 a  decision of	 this  Court  in  HariprasadShivshankar  Shukla  v.	 A. D. Divikar (1)  where  the	wordretrenchment " as defined in s. 2(00) and the word(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 121, 132.64506retrenchment  "	 in s. 25F of the Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947,  as amended by Act XLIII of 1953 were held to have  nowider  meaning	than the ordinary  accepted  connotation  ofthose  words and were held to mean the discharge of  surpluslabour	or staff by the employer for any reason	 whatsoever,otherwise  than	 as  a	punishments  inflicted	by  way	  ofdisciplinary  action,  and did not  include  termination  ofservices  of all workmen on a bona fide closure of  industryor  on	change	of ownership or	 management  thereof.	Eventhough	the word " retrenchment" was defined as meaning	 thetermination  of services by an employer of the	workmen	 forany  reason  whatsoever,  otherwise  than  as  a  punishmentinflicted  by way of disciplinary action, which	 words	werecapable	 of including within their scope the termination  ofservices  of all workmen on a bona fide closure of  industryor on change of ownership or management thereof, the word  "retrenchment  " was construed in a narrow sense because	 theword  " retrenchment " connoted in its	ordinary  acceptancethat  the business itself was being conducted and a  portionof  the staff or labour force was discharged as	 surplusage.This  Court observed in the course of the judgment  at	page132:-"  In the absence of any compelling words to  indicate	thatthe intention was even to include a bona fide closure of thewhole  business,  it  would,  we  think,  be  divorcing	 theexpression  altogether	from its context to give it  such  awide meaning as is contended for by learned counsel for	 therespondent.  What is being defined is retrenchment, and thatis  the	 context  of the definition.  It  is  true  that  anartificial  definition may include a meaning different	fromor  in excess of the ordinary acceptation of the word  whichis  the	 subject  of  definition; but  there  must  then  becompelling words to show that such a meaning different	fromor  in excess of the ordinary meaning is  intended.   Where,within	the  framework of the ordinary	acceptation  of	 theword,  every single requirement of the definition clause  isfulfilled,  it	would  be wrong to take	 the  definition  asdestroying the essential meaning of the word defined."507Reliance  was  also  placed on a decision of  the  Court  ofAppeal in England in Re The Vexatious Actions Act, 1896,  Inre Bernard Boaler (1) where the words " legal proceedings  "were  held not to include criminal proceedings, in spite  ofthe  words being prima facie capable of including the  same.Kennedy,  C. J., expressed his view at page 32 that  it	 wasimpossible to say that the meaning of the expression " legalproceedings  "	was  in	 itself	 and  by  itself  clear	 andunambiguous and followed the dictum of Lord Esher in Rex  v.City of London Court(2):-"  If the words of an Act admit of two interpretations	thenthey  are not clear ; and if one interpretation leads to  anabsurdity  and the other does not, the Court  will  concludethat the Legislature did not intend to lead to an absurdity,and will adopt the other interpretation.  "Scrutton, J., also expressed the same opinion at p. 41 :-"  I  find  general words used in the  Act  capable  of	 twomeanings, a wider and a narrower one.  On the whole I  thinkthe  language is more suited to the narrower than the  widermeaning.  The narrower meaning will affect the liberties  ofthe  subject  to some extent; the wider	 meaning  will	mostseriously  affect the liberties of the subject in a  matter,his  personal liberty and safety, which I see no  reason  inthe  Act  to  believe  was  in	the  contemplation  of	 theLegislature.	I   decline  to	 make  this   more   seriousinterference  with  the liberty of the subject,	 unless	 theLegislature  uses language clear enough to convince me	thatthat  was  its	intention,  and I  think  ample	 meaning  isprovided for its words, and ample remedy is provided for thegrievance in respect of which Parliament was legislating  byputting	 the narrower construction on the general  words  ithas used.  "Are there any circumstances in the present case which  wouldcompel us to put a narrower construction on the expression "estate " in s. 2(5) of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879  ?It is true that the expression " estate " was used prior  to1879 in connection(1) [1915] 1 K.B. 21.(2) [1892] 1 Q.B. 273, 290.508with  the  interests  which the various	 tenure	 holders  ofalienated  lands held in their respective lands but it	doesnot therefore follow that that expression could be used onlyin  connection	with  those interests and  no  others.	 TheWatandars, Saranjamdars, Inamdars and Taluqdars and the likewere  no  doubt holders of " estates " but  does  that	factmilitate  against the occupants also holding " estates "  inthe  lands which were the subject-matter of  their  tenures.The  words  of the definition contained in s.  2(5)  of	 theBombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, were clear and	unambiguous.They meant any interest in lands and the expression "  lands"  was capable of comprising within its ambit alienated	 andunalienated lands.As  a matter of fact, the definition of " Superior holder  "in s. 2(13) and the definition of " alienated " in s.  2(20)of  the	 Code,	provisions of s. 111 in	 regard	 to  revenuemanagement  of	villages  or estates not  belonging  to	 theGovernment,  of	 s.  113 with regard  to  the  partition  ofestates	 and  of  s. 36 prescribing  liability	for  revenueamongst others refer not only to alienated lands but also tounalienated  lands  and	 the expression	 "  estates  "	usedtherein	 can have reference not only to alienated lands	 butalso  to  unalienated  lands.	If  the	 definition  of	 theexpression  "  estate " in the context of the Code  is	thusclear  and  unambiguous	 as comprising both  the  types	 -oflands,	there  is no reason why a narrower  construction  assuggested  by  the  petitioners	 should	 be  put  upon	 theexpression " estate ". (See the observations of Kennedy,  L.J., in Vexatious Actions Act, 1896, In re.  Boaler (1) at p.31 and the observations of this Court in Baia Sri  SailendraNarayan	 Bhanja	 Deo v. The State of Orissa  (2).   Even  ifthere  was  any	 ambiguity  in	the  expression,  the  widersignificance  should  be  adopted  in  the  context  of	 theobjectives of the Act as stated above.We  are, therefore, of opinion that the expression estate  "had  the  meaning  of any interest in land and	it  was	 notconfined merely to the holdings of landholders of  alienatedlands.	 The expression applied not only to such " estate  "holders	  but  also  to	 land  holders	and   occupants	  ofunalienated lands.(1) [1915] 1 K. B. 21.(2) [1956] S.C.R. 72.		    509It  was however contended on behalf of the petitioners	thatthe Bombay Land Revenue Code was not a law relating to	landtenures	 in force in the State of Bombay and  therefore	 thedefinition  of the expression " estate "  contained  thereinwould not avail the respondent.	 It was urged that the	Codewas passed by the State Legislature in order to	 consolidateand  amend the law relating to Revenue Officers, and to	 theassessment  and	 recovery  of Land  Revenue,  and  to  othermatters	 connected with the Land Revenue  Administration  inthe  Presidency of Bombay and was merely concerned with	 thecollection  of land revenue by the State and had nothing  todo  with  land	tenures as such.   This	 argument,  however,ignores the various provisions of the Code which define	 thestatus	as also the rights and obligations of  the  occupantwho  has  been defined in s. 2(16) of the Code to  mean	 theholder in actual possession of unalienated lands other	thana tenant provided that where the holder in actual possessionis  a  tenant, the landholder or superior landlord,  as	 thecase may be, shall be deemed to be the occupant.  Chapter VIdeals with the Grant, Use and Relinquishment of	 unalienatedlands  and  s. 65 thereof prescribes the uses  to  which  anoccupant  of  land for purposes of agriculture may  put	 hisland.	Under s. 68 an occupant-is entitled to the  use	 andoccupation of his land for the period therein prescribed  onfulfilling the conditions therein mentioned and under s.  73occupancy  is  stated  to  be  transferable  and  heritable.Section 73 as it was enacted in 1879 read as follows: "	 Theright of occupancy shall subject to the provisions containedin section 56, and to any conditions lawfully annexed to theoccupancy and save as otherwise prescribed by law, be deemedan heritable and transferable property." Certain  amendmentshave  been  made  in this section  by  various	Bombay	LandRevenue	 Amendment Acts, (Bom.	VI of 1901 and Bom.   IV  of1913)  and  the section as it stands at present	 reads:"  Anoccupancy  shall,  subject to the  provisions  contained  insection	 56, and to any conditions lawfully annexed  to	 thetenure,	 and save as otherwise prescribed by law, be  deemedan heritable and transferable510property." This goes to show that an occupant holds the landunder  a tenure and occupancy is a species of land  tenures.The  provisions contained in s. 73(A) relating to the  powerof  the State Government to restrict the right	of  transferand the provisions in regard to relinquishments contained inss. 74, 75 and 76 also point to the same conclusion.   Theseand  similar provisions go to show that occupancy is one  ofthe  varieties of land tenures and the Bombay  Land  RevenueCode, 1879, comes within the description of " existing	lawsrelating  to land tenures in force" in the State  of  Bombaywithin	the  meaning of Art. 31A  (2)(a).   BadenPowell	 hassimilar	 observations to make in regard to these  provisionsin his Land Systems in British India, Vol.  1 at p. 321:-"Nothing  whatever  is said in the Revenue  Code  about	 theperson in possession (on his own account) being " owner " inthe  Western sense.  He is simply called the "	occupant  ",and  the Code says what he can do and what he  cannot.	 Theoccupant may do anything he pleases to improve the land, butmay  not  without permission do anything which	diverts	 theholding	 from  agricultural purposes.  He has  no  right  tomines or minerals.These are the facts of the tenure; you may theorize on	themas  you please; you may say this amounts to  proprietorship,or this is a dominium minus plenum; or anything else."There  is  no doubt therefore that the Bombay  Land  RevenueCode, 1879, was an existing law relating to land tenures  inforce  in Bombay at the time when the  Constitution  (FourthAmendment) Act, 1955, was passed and Art. 31A in its amendedform was introduced therein and the expression "estate " hada  meaning  given to it under s. 2(10) there,  viz.,  "	 anyinterest  in  land  "  which  comprised	 within	 its   scopealienated  as  well  as unalienated lands  and	covered	 theholdings of occupants within the meaning thereof.The 1948 Act was passed by the State Legislature in order toamend the law which governed the relations between landlordsand  tenants of agricultural lands the object sought  to  beachieved being as hereinbefore511set out.  Section 2 of the Act defined the expressions "  tocultivate personally " (s. 2(6)); ,landholder " (s. 2(9)); "protected tenant " (s. 2(14) ) amongst other expressions andprovided in s. 2(21) that words and expressions used in thisAct but not defined shall have the meaning assigned to	themin  the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, and the Transfer  ofProperty Act, 1882, as the case may be.	 This brought in thedefinition of the expression " estate " which had the  mean-ing assigned to it in that Code, viz., any interest in	land". The expression " landholder in s. 2(9) above was  definedto  mean  "  a	zamindar,  jagirdar,  saranjamdar,  inamdar,talukdar,  malik  or a khot or any person  not	hereinbeforespecified  who is a holder of land or who is  interested  inland, and whom the State Government has declared on  accountof the extent and value of the land or his interests thereinto be a landholder for the purposes of this Act." The latterpart  of this definition is significant and shows  that	 notonly  holders  of  alienated  lands  but  also	holders	  ofunalienated lands were comprised therein provided,  however,the extent and value of the land or their interests  thereinwere such as to deserve a declaration in that behalf at	 thehands of the State Government.	The only point to note	hereis  that  no distinction was made even in this	Act  betweenalienated  lands and unalienated lands and all interests  inland howsoever acquired were treated on a par so far as	 theholdings  were concerned, necessarily implying that even  anoccupant would come within the description of landholder andhis interests therein would come within the definition of  "estate	" as defined in the Bombay Land Revenue Code,  1879.Chapter	 III  made provisions for protected  tenants,  theirspecial	 rights and privileges and whoever came	 within	 thecategory of protected tenant was given the right to purchasefrom  the  landlord the land held by him as  such  protectedtenant notwithstanding any. thing contrary in law, usage  orcontract subject to the provisions of sub-s. 6 which imposedrestrictions  on  the  holdings	 of  landlords	as  well  astenants.  These provisions were analogous to the  provisionscontained in ss. 32 to 32 R of the impugned Act except	thatin the5121948 Act the protected tenant had the option to purchase theland  whereas under the impugned Act there was	a  provisionfor  compulsory	 purchase  of the land by the  tenant  on  aspecified   date  subject  to  certain	conditions   thereinmentioned.  Section 34 of the 1948 Act gave the landlord theright	to   determine	protected  tenancy   under   certainconditions  and was analogous to s. 31 of the  impugned	 Actwhich  empowered the landlord to terminate the	tenancy	 forpersonal cultivation and non-agricultural purposes. 50 acresof  land were prescribed as the limit of the holding  eitherby the landlord or the protected tenant which provision	 wasanalogous to the one found in the impugned Act in regard  toceiling area and economic holdings.  Power was given to	 theState Government under s. 36 to reduce the limit of 50 acresby a notification in the official gazette and power was alsogiven similarly to direct that the limits of fifty acres  orthe  reduced  limit  specified in  such	 notification  shallcomprise  such kind or kinds of lands in the area as may  bespecified  in  the notification.  This power  was  analogousagain to the power given to the State Government under s.  7of  the	 impugned Act to vary the ceiling area	or  economicholding originally prescribed in ss. 5 and 6 of the Act.These  instances culled out from some of the  provisions  ofthe  1948 Act go to show that the agrarian reform which	 wasinitiated by that Act was designed to achieve the very	samepurpose	 of  distribution of the ownership  and	 control  ofagricultural  lands  so as to subserve the common  good	 andeliminate   the	 concentration	of  wealth  to	the   commondetriment  which  purpose  became more	prominent  when	 theConstitution  was  ushered in on January 26, 1950,  and	 thedirective principles of State Policy were enacted inter aliain Arts. 38 and 39 of the Constitution.	 With the advent  ofthe Constitution these provisions contained in the 1948	 Actrequired to be tested on the touch-stone of the	 fundamentalrights	 enshrined  in	Part  III  thereof  and	  when	 theConstitution   (First  Amendment)  Act,	 1951,	was   passedintroducing Arts. 31A and 31B in the Constitution, care	 wastaken to specify the 1948 Act in the Ninth Schedule so as tomake it immune from		    513attack on the score of any provision thereof being violativeof  the	 fundamental  rights  enacted in  Part	III  of	 theConstitution.	The  1948 Act was the second  item  in	thatschedule and was expressly saved from any attack against theconstitutionality thereof by the express terms of Art. 31B.The  impugned Act which was passed by the State	 Legislaturein  1956 was a further measure of agrarian  reform  carryingforward	 the  intentions which had their roots in  the	1948Act.   Having  regard  to the  comparision  of	the  variousprovisions of the 1948 Act and the impugned Act referred  toabove  it  could be legitimately urged that if	the  cognateprovisions of the 1948 Act were immune from attack in regardto their constitutionality, on a parity of reasoning similarprovisions  contained in the impugned Act, though they	madefurther	 strides  in the achievement of the objective  of  asocialistic  pattern  of society would be  similarly  saved.That  position, however, could not obtain  because  whateveramendments  were  made by the impugned Act in the  1948	 Actwere  future  laws within the meaning of Art. 13(2)  of	 theConstitution  and  required to be tested  on  the  self-sametouchstone.   They would not be in terms saved by  Art.	 31Band would have to be scrutinized on their own merits  beforethe  courts  came to the conclusion that they  were  enactedwithin	the constitutional limitations.	 The very  terms  ofArt. 31B envisaged that any competent legislature would havethe  power to repeal or amend the Acts and  the	 Regulationsspecified  in  the  9th Schedule thereof  and  if  any	suchamendment  was ever made the vires of that would have to  betested.	 (Vide	Abdul Rahiman Jamaluddin  Hurjuk  v.  VithalArjun UndareThat  brings us back to the provisions of Art. 31A and to  aconsideration	as  to	whether	 the  impugned	Act  was   alegislation  for the acquisition by the State of any  estateor  of	any  rights    therein	or  the	 extinguishment	  ormodification of any such rights within, the meaning of	sub-article (1)(a) thereof We have already held that the  BombayLand Revenue Code,, 1879, was(11)(1957)59:Bom L.R.579.65514an  existing  law relating to land tenures in force  in	 theState of Bombay and that the interests of occupants  amongstothers	fell  within  the expression "	estate	"  containedtherein.  That, however, was not enough for the	 petitionersand  it	 was  further contended on their  behalf  that	eventhough	the  impugned  Act may be a law in regard  to  an  "estate	" within the meaning of the definition contained  inArt. 31A(2)(a) it was not law providing for the	 acquisitionby the State of any estate or any rights therein or for	 theextinguishment	or  modification of any	 such  rights.	 Theimpugned Act was certainly not a law for the acquisition  bythe  State  of any estate or of any rights  therein  becauseeven  the provisions with regard to the compulsory  purchaseby tenants of the land on the specified date transferred thetitle  in those lands to the respective tenants and  not  tothe  State.   There was no compulsory acquisition of  any  "estate " or any rights therein by the State itself and	thisprovision  could not help the respondent.   The	 respondent,however, urged that the provisions contained in the impugnedAct  were enacted for the extinguishment or modification  ofrights	in  " estates " and were, therefore, saved  by	Art.31A(1)(a).    It  was  on  the	other  hand  urged  by	 thepetitioners  (1) that the extinguishment or modification  ofany  such,  rights  should only be in  the  process  of	 theacquisition  by	 the ,State of any estate or of	 any  rightstherein	 and  (2) that the provisions in  the  impugned	 Actamounted  to  a	 suspension of those rights but	 not  to  anextinguishment or modification thereof We shall now  proceedto examine these contentions of the petitioners.Art. 31A(1)(a) talks of two distinct objects of legislation;one  being the acquisition by the State of any estate or  ofany  rights therein and the other being	 the  extinguishmentor modification of any such., rights,.	If the = acquires anestate or any rights therein that acquisition would have  tobe  a  compulsory  acquisition within the  meaning  of	Art.31(2)(A)  which was also introduced in the  Constitution  bythe    Constitution    (Fourth	 Amendment)    Act,    1955,simultaneously	with  Art.  31A(1) thereof.   There  was  noprovision  made	 for the transfer of the  ownership  of	 anyproperty to the515State  or  a Corporation owned or controlled by	 'the  Statewith  the result that even though,these provisions  deprivedthe  landholders of their property they did not amount to  acompulsory  acquisition	 of the property by the	 State.	  Ifthis  part of Art. 31A(1)(a) is thus eliminated what we	 areleft  with is whether these provisions of the  impugned	 Actprovided for an extinguishment or modification of any rightsin  " estates ". That is a distinct concept  altogether	 andcould  not be in the process of acquisition by the State  ofany " estate " or of any rights therein.  Acceptance of	 theinterpretation which is sought to be put upon these words bythe petitioners would involve the addition of words " in theprocess of the acquisition by the State of any estate or  ofany rights therein " or " in the process of such acquisition"  which according to the well known canons of	constructioncannot	be done.  If the language of the enactment is  clearand unambiguous it would not be legitimate for the Courts toadd any words thereto and evolve therefrom some sense  whichmay  be	 said to carry out the supposed	 intentions  of	 thelegislature.   The  intention of the Legislature  is  to  begathered  only	from  the  words used  by  it  and  no	suchliberties  can	be taken by the Courts	for  effectuating  asupposed intention of the Legislature.	There is no  warrantat all, in our opinion,' for adding these words to the plainterms of Art. 31A (1)(a) and the words	extinguishment	  ormodification of any such rights	   must	 be  understood	  intheir plain grammatical sense without any limitation of	 thetype suggested by the petitioners.It,  therefore,	 remains to consider  whether  the  relevantprovisions of the impugned Act were designed to bring  aboutan  extinguishment or modification of the landlord's  rightsin their " estates ". These provisions are contained in	 ss.32  to 32R of the impugned Act and are under the  heading  "Purchase  of lands by Tenants ". Section 32 provides that  "on the first day of April, 1957 (hereinafter referred to  as"  the	tillers day ") every tenant shall,  subject  to	 theprovisions  of	the next succeeding sections, be  deemed  tohave purchased from his landlord, free of all incumbrances516subsisting thereon on the said day, the land held by him  astenant........................	provided certain  conditionsare  fulfilled.	 Under s. 32A the tenant shall be deemed  tohave  purchased	 the lands up to the ceiling  area  and	 thetenant	shall not be deemed to have purchased lands held  byhim  as	 such tenant if he holds lands partly as  owner	 andpartly	as tenant but the area of the land held as owner  isequal to or exceeds the ceiling area (s. 32B).	Section	 32Cempowers the tenant to chose the land to be purchased if  heholds  lands separately from more than one landlord  and  inspite  of  anything contained in the  Bombay  Prevention  ofFragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1947  (Bom.LXII  of 1947) the tenant shall be deemed to have  purchasedeven  such fragments of the land held on tenancy  (s.  32D).The balance of any land after the purchase by the tenant  asabove is to be disposed of as if it were land surrendered bythe tenant (s. 32E); and the right of the tenant to purchasesuch  land where the landlord is a minor, or a widow,  or  aperson	subject	 to any mental or physical disability  or  aserving	 member	 of the armed forces is postponed  till	 oneyear  after  the cessation of disability.  The price  to  bepaid  by the tenant is to be determined by the	Tribunal  assoon as may be after the tiller's day and the Tribunal is inthe  first instance to record in the prescribed	 manner	 thestatement  of  the tenant whether lie is willing or  is	 notwilling to purchase the land held by him as a tenant and  ifthe  tenant fails to appear or makes a statement that he  isnot willing to purchase the land, the Tribunal is to declareby  an order in writing that such tenant is not	 willing  topurchase  the land and that the purchase is ineffective	 (S.32G).	These  provisions also apply to a  sub-tenant  of  apermanent  tenant who is deemed to have purchased  the	landsubject	 to  the conditions specified in ss. 32 to  32E	 (S.321).	Section	 32J  provides for an appeal  to  the  StateGovernment  against the decision of Tribunal.	Section	 32Kprescribes  the mode of payment of price by the tenant;	 andthe purchase price is recoverable as arrears of land revenue(S. 32L).  Under s. 32M on the deposit of the price in	lumpsum or of517the last instalment of such price, the Tribunal is to  issuea  certificate of purchase to the tenant in respect  of	 theland,  which  certificate of purchase  shall  be  Conclusiveevidence of purchase.  If a tenant fails to pay the lump sumwithin the period prescribed or is at any time in arrears offour  instalments the purchase is to be ineffective and	 theland  is  to  be at the disposal of the	 Collector  and	 anyamount	deposited  by such tenant towards the price  of	 theland  is  to  be refunded to him.   Section  32N  gives	 thelandlord  a  right  to recover rent  when  purchase  becomesineffective,  as if the land had not been purchased at	all.Section	 32P gives the power to the Collector to resume	 anddispose	 of  land not purchased by tenants.  The  amount  ofpurchase  price	 is to be applied  towards  satisfaction  ofdebts  (s. 320) ; and the, purchaser is to be  evicted	fromthe  land  purchased  by him as aforesaid  if  he  fails  tocultivate the land personally (s. 32R).It is argued on the strength of these provisions that  thereis  no	effective  purchase or effective sale  of  the	landbetween	 the landlord and the tenant on the tiller's day  orthe  alternative  period  prescribed in	 that  behalf  untilcertain conditions are fulfilled.  To start with it is	onlyan  inchoate right which is given to the tenant to  purchasethe  land which he can perfect on a statement being made  byhim  before the Tribunal that he is willing to purchase	 theland.	Even  if he does so, the land does not vest  in	 himbecause only on the payment of the purchase price either  inlump  or  by  instalments  can he  get	the  certificate  ofpurchase  from the Tribunal.  If he commits default in	pay-ment,  the purchase is ineffective and he gets no  title  tothe  land.  These provisions, it is submitted, do  not	vestthe  title to the land in the tenant at all until all  theseconditions  are fulfilled and if any one or more of them  isnot fulfilled the purchase becomes ineffective-in fact it isno  purchase  at all-with the result that the title  to	 theland which is already vested in the landlord is not at,	 alltransferred  to the purchaser.	If that is so, there  is  nocompulsory  sale  or  compulsory purchase  of  the  land  inquestion  on the tiller's day or the alternative  period  oftime prescribed therefor and518there  is no extinguishment of the rights of  the  landlord.His  rights  in	 the  land are	merely	suspended  and	suchsuspension is certainly not an extinguishment of his  rightstherein nor a modification thereof within the meaning of theexpression  used in Art. 31A (1)(a).  Reliance is placed  insupport	 of  this proposition on the  observations  of	thisCourt in Thakur Raghubir Singh v. Court of Wards, Ajmer (1).In that case, this Court considered the provisions of s. 112of  the	 Ajmer Tenancy and Land Records Act (XLII  of  1950)which  provided that if a landlord habitually infringes	 therights of a tenant under the Act he would be deemed to be  alandlord who is disqualified to manage his own property	 andhis  property  would  be  liable  to  be  taken	 under	 thesuperintendence of the Court of Wards.	Mahajan, J., (as  hethen was) observed at p. 1055:-" Section 112 of the Act XLII of 1950, intended to  regulatethe rights. of landlords and tenants, is obviously not a lawproviding  for	"  the acquisition by the  State  "  of	 theestates of the landlords, or of any rights in those estates.It  is	also not a law providing for the  extinguishment  ormodification  of  any such rights.   The  learned  Attorney-General	 laid emphasis on the word " modification"  used  inArticle	 31 A. That word in the context of the article	onlymeans  a modification of the proprietary right of a  citizenlike  an  extinguishment of that right	and  cannot  includewithin	its  ambit  a  mere  suspension	 of  the  right	  ofmanagement of estate for a time, definite or indefinite."These observations were confined to suspension of the  rightof  management of the estate and not to a suspension of	 thetitle  to the estate.  Apart from the question	whether	 thesuspension  of the title to the estate for a time,  definiteor  indefinite would amount to a modification of a right  inthe  estate  within  the meaning of  Art.  31A	(1)(a),	 theposition  as  it obtains in this case is that  there  is  nosuspension  of the title of the landlord at all.  The  titleof the landlord to-the land passes immediately to the tenanton the tiller's(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1049.		    519day  and  there is a completed purchase or sale	 thereof  asbetween the landlord and the tenant.  The tenant is no doubtgiven a locus penitentiae and an option of declaring whetherhe is or is not willing to purchase the land held by him  asa  tenant.  If he fails to appear or makes a statement	thathe  is not willing to purchase the land, the Tribunal  shallby  an	order  in writing declare that such  tenant  is	 notwilling	 to  purchase  the land and  that  the	purchase  isineffective.   It  is  only by such  a	declaration  by	 theTribunal that the purchase becomes ineffective.	 If no	suchdeclaration is made by the Tribunal the purchase would standas  statutorily	 effected  on  the  tiller's  day  and	willcontinue to be operative, the only obligation on the  tenantthen  being the payment of price in the mode  determined  bythe Tribunal.  If the tenant commits default in the  paymentof such price either in lump or by instalments as determinedby  the	 Tribunal,  s.	32M  declares  the  purchase  to  beineffective but in that event the land shall then be at	 thedisposal  of the Collector to be disposed of by him  in	 themanner	provided therein.  Here also the purchase  continuesto be effective as from the tiller's day until such  defaultis  committed  and  there is no question  of  a	 conditionalpurchase  or  sale  taking place between  the  landlord	 andtenant.	  The title to the land which was vested  originallyin the landlord passes to the tenant on the tiller's day  orthe  alternative  period prescribed in	that  behalf.	Thistitle is defeasable only in the event of the tenant  failingto  appear or making a statement that he is not	 willing  topurchase  the land or committing default in payment  of	 theprice  thereof	as determined by the Tribunal.	 The  tenantgets a vested interest in the land defeasable only in eitherof  those  cases and it cannot therefore be  said  that	 thetitle  of landlord to the land is suspended for	 any  perioddefinite  or indefinite.  If that is so, there is an  extin-guishment  or in any event a modification of the  landlord'sright  in the estate well within the meaning of those  wordsas used in Art. 31A(1)(a).We have, therefore, come to the conclusion that the impugnedAct is covered by Art. 31A and is protected520from  attack against its constitutionality on the  score  ofits  having  violated the fundamental rights,  enshrined  inArts. 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution.  That being so, theattack	levelled against ss. 5, 6, 8, 9, 17A, 31 A to  31  Dand  32 to 32R on the score of their being violative of	 thefundamental  rights conferred upon the petitioners is of  noavail  to the petitioners.  This being the true position  itis  not	 necessary  for	 us  to	 consider  the	 interestingquestions which were argued before us at some length,  viz.,the nature, scope and extent of the provisions contained  inArts.  31(1) and 31(2) of the Constitution and the  line  ofdemarcation between them as also the impact of Art. 31(1) onthe  fundamental  right enshrined in Art.  19(1)(f)  of	 theConstitution.	Suffice	 it to say that	 under	the  circum-stances no fundamental right of the petitioners before us isinfringed by the impugned Act or the provisions thereof	 andthe petitions under Art. 32 cannot be sustained.The impugned Act being within the legislative competence  ofthe State Legislature no question as to its being a piece ofcolourable  legislation can arise.  It is not a	 legislationresorted to by the State Legislature with a view to  by-passthe  provisions	 of List II of the seventh schedule  to	 theConstitution,  attempting   to	do something  which  it	 wasotherwise  not	competent  to  do.   The  legislation  beingcovered	 by  Entry 18 of the said List is really  a  furthermeasure	 for  agrarian reform which it was well	 within	 itscompetence to enact.  It is not an expropriatory legislationin  the guise of one covered by Entry 18 in the	 said  List.It only fixes the ceiling area for the holding of the  land-lord  cultivating  the	land personally	 and  transfers	 theexcess	holding to the tenant in actual cultivation  thereofand there too the price of the land as fixed by the Tribunalhas  got  to  be paid by the tenant to	the  landlord.	 Thetenant also is not entitled to hold land beyond the  ceilingarea and there is a balance sought to be struck between	 theinterests  of the landlord and those of the tenants so	thatthe means of production are not concentrated in the hands ofone  party  to the common detriment.  The price	 payable  isalso either521in  lump or in such instalments as may be determined by	 theTribunal  and on default committed by the tenant in  paymentthereof the purchase becomes ineffective and the land deemedto  have  been	purchased  by  the  tenant  reverts  to	 theCollector to be dealt with in accordance with the provisionscontained  in  the  Act	 in that behalf.   It  may  be	thatinstalments may be spread over a particular period which maythus  be  determined by the Tribunal and unless	 default  iscommitted  by the tenant in payment of four instalments	 thepurchase does not become ineffective.  That, however, is nota  provision which makes the payment of price in any  mannerillusory.  The landlord is entitled to the rents of the landas  if there had been no purchase of the land by the  tenantand the payment of such rent is made the first charge on theland.	There is, therefore, no scope for the argument	thatthe  provisions	 in this behalf contained in  the  Act	wereillusory  or that the impugned Act is a piece of  colourablelegislation.The  only question that now survives is whether s. 7 of	 theimpugned  Act  is bad by reason of excessive  delegation  oflegislative  power.  Section 7 invests the  Government	withthe  power  to vary the ceiling area  and  economic  holdingwhich  have  been  prescribed in ss. 5 and  6  of  the	Act.Sections 5, 6 and 7 of the Act read as under :-"  5.  Ceiling area: (1) For the purposes of this  Act,	 theceiling area of land shall be-(a)  48 acres of jirayat land, or(b)  24 acres of seasonally irrigated land or paddyor rice land, or(c)  12 acres of perennially irrigated land.(2)  Where the land held by a person consists of two or morekinds of land specified in sub-section (1), the ceiling areaof such holding shall be determined on the basis of one acreof  perennially irrigated land being equal of two  acres  ofseasonally  irrigated  land or paddy or rice land,  or	fouracres of jirayat land.665226.   Economic  holding-(1) For the purposes of this  Act  aneconomic holding shall be-(a)  16 acres of jirayat land, or(b)  8 acres of seasonally irrigated land, or paddy or	riceland, or(c)  4 acres of perennially irrigated land.(2)  Where the land held by a person consists of two or morekinds  of  land	 specified in sub-section  (1)	an  economicholding	 shall be determined on the basis applicable to	 theceiling area-under sub-section (2) of section 5.7.   Power  of Government to vary ceiling area and  economicholding:  Notwithstanding anything contained in	 sections  5and 6, it shall be lawful for the State Government, if it issatisfied  that	 it  is expedient so to do  in	the  public.interest, to vary, by notification in the Official  Gazette,the acreage of the ceiling area or economic holding, or	 thebasis  of  determination of such ceiling  area	or  economicholding, under subsection (2) of section 5, regard being hadto-(a)  the situation of the land,(b)  its productive capacity,(c)  the  fact that the land is located in a backward  area,and(d) any other factors which may be prescribed."It is contended that s. 7 does not fix any criteria for	 theguidance of the State Government and that the power which isgiven  to the State Government to vary the ceiling area	 andeconomic  holding is unguided and unfettered and that it  ispossible to exercise it at the sweet will and discretion  ofthe State Government even in favour of a, single  individualor  in	favour of political sufferers and the like.   It  isurged that no broad principle or policy is enunciated by theLegislature in this behalf and it would be open to the StateGovernment to exercise this power arbitrarily and even in  adiscriminatory manner and that such entrustment of power  tothe  State  Government amounts to  excessive  delegation  oflegislative  power  and s. 7 therefore must be	held  to  bevoid.		    523The  principles	 by  which  the courts	are  guided  in	 thedetermination of this question are now well settled.  In theState  of  Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar  Singh  ofDarbhanga (1) Mahajan, J., (as he then was observed):-The  legislature  applied its mind to the  question  Of	 themethod	and manner of payment of compensation.	 It  settledits  policy  and the broad principles.	It  gave  the  StateGovernment  the power to determine matters of  detail  afterhaving	settled vital matters of policy.  It cannot be	saidthat the legislature did not apply its mind to the  subject-matter	of  the legislation and did not lay down  a  policy.The proportion in which compensation was payable in cash  orin  bonds or whether the whole of it was to be paid in	cashis  a matter which only the State Government could  fix	 andsimilarly,  the	 interval of instalments and the  period  ofredeemability of the bonds were also matters of detail whichthe executive could more appositely determine in exercise ofits rule-making power.	It cannot be said in this case	thatany  essential legislative power has been delegated  to	 theexecutive  or  that the legislature did	 not  discharge	 thetrust  which  the Constitution had reposed in  it.   If	 therule-making authority abuses its power or makes any  attemptto  make  the payment illusory the  expropriated  proprietorwill not be without a remedy."If  the	 legislature  settles  the  policy  and	 the   broadprinciples  of legislation, there is no bar against  leavingthe matters of detail to be fixed by the executive and	suchdelegation  will  not  amount  to  excessive  delegation  oflegislative power such as to vitiate the enactment.  In	 thecase before us the preamble to the Act says what the  policyof the impugned Act is, viz., further to amend the 1948	 Actwhich  as  we  have  already  observed	sets  out   specificobjectives  to be achieved.  Sections 5 and 6 prescribe	 theceiling area and the economic holding which are fixed by thelegislature  itself having regard to the  normal  conditionsthen prevailing within the State.  The legislature knew whatwere the different types, of land, their situation(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 889, 954.524and  productive	 capacity  and	having	regard	to  all	 therelevant  factors  determined the ceiling area as  also	 theeconomic   holding.   There  were,  however,  bound  to	  bedifferences  between district and district and one  part  ofthe  State and another and having therefore  enunciated	 thebroad principles and policy which were embodied in ss. 5 and6  of  the Act the legislature enacted s. 7  empowering	 theState  Government to vary the ceiling area and the  economicholding	 if it was satisfied that it was expedient so to  doin  the	 public interest, regard being had  to	the  variouscriteria therein specified.  The State Government was to  beguided	in  arriving at its satisfaction in  regard  to	 theexpediency thereof by (a) the situation of the land, (b) itsproductive  capacity, (c) the fact that the land is  locatedin  a backward area, and (d) any other factors which may  beprescribed.  In so far as the situation of the land and	 itsproductive  capacity were variable factors, more so  if	 theland  was located in a backward area, the  State  Governmentwas enjoined to have regard to these factors as	 determiningthe variations one way or the other from the normal standardadopted by the Legislature in ss. 5 and 6 of the Act.  " Anyother  factors	which may be prescribed " would	 be  factorsejusdem	 generis  to the factors mentioned  earlier  in	 thesection and could not be any and every factor which  crossedthe  mind of the executive.  The very terms of	the  sectionpreclude any single individual being treated in this  mannerbecause	 it talks of the variation in the ceiling  area	 andthe   economic	holding	 being	considered  by	 the   StateGovernment  to be expedient in the public interest  and	 thesatisfaction of any individual interest could hardly be saidto be a matter of public interest.No  doubt individuals would be benefited by  the  variationscontemplated  in  s.  7	 but  for  that	 purpose  the  StateGovernment  has got to be satisfied that it is expedient  inthe  public interest to do so and no variation in regard  toceiling area or the economic holding of a single  individualcan ever be said to have been contemplated within the  termsof s. 7. It appears however that this argument found  favourwith  the  Bombay High Court in its  decision  in  ParashramDamodhar v.525State of Bombay (1) where the Court observed that the  powerto  issue  a notification may be exercised in  favour  of  asingle	individual under the authority reserved under  s.  7and  may  lay  the  State Government open  to  a  charge  offavouritism.   With great respect to the learned  judges  ofthat  High Court, we are of the view that no such  thing  isever contemplated in the terms of s. 7 of the Act.  There isalso no warrant for the suggestion that the State Governmentmight  vary the ceiling area and the economic  holding,	 sayfor instance, for benefiting the political sufferers  withinthe State.  If the situation of the land and its  productivecapacity  as  also the fact that the land is  located  in  abackward  area are the criteria to be determined before	 theState  Government is satisfied that it is expedient to	varythe  ceiling  area and the economic holding  in	 the  publicinterest  and " any other factors which may be prescribed  "are  to	 be read ejusdem generis with the above	 as  alreadyobserved, no question of benefiting political sufferers	 canever  enter into the picture.  That would be  an  extraneousconsideration.	 It  does  not	come  within  the   criteriaspecified  in  s.  7.  of the Act  on  a  true	constructionthereof.   Such	 considerations therefore  do  not  militateagainst	 the  validity of the provisions contained  in	thatsection.   In our opinion, the broad principles	 and  policyhave  been laid down by the legislature, the  criteria	havebeen fixed according to which the State Government has to besatisfied that it is expedient to vary the ceiling area	 andeconomic  holding already prescribed by the legislature	 andthe mere matter of working out the details having regard  tothose  criteria	 which are  specifically  mentioned  thereinwhich  has been delegated to the State Government  does	 notamount to any excessive delegation of legislative power.It is also to be remembered that this power of variation  ofthe  ceiling area and the economic holding is vested in	 theState Government and is left to its subjective	satisfactionhaving	regard	to the criteria therein specified.   As	 wasobserved  by Kania, C. J., in Dr.  N. B. Khare v. The  Stateof Delhi (2):-(1) A. I. R. 1957 Bom, 252.(2) [1950] S.C. R. 519, 526.526This  whole  argument is based on the  assumption  that	 theProvincial Government when making the order will not performits duty and may abuse the provisions of the section.  In myopinion,  it is not proper to start with such an  assumptionand  decide the legality of an Act on that basis.  Abuse  ofthe power given by a law sometimes occurs; but the  validityof   the  law  cannot  be  contested  because  of  such	  anapprehension."These  observations  of	 Karda,	 C.  J.,  were	quoted	withapproval  by Patanjali Sastri, C. J., in The State  of	WestBengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar (1) where -it was stated:-"  Whether  a  law conferring  discretionary  powers  on  anadministrative	authority is constitutionally valid  or	 notshould	not  be	 determined  on	 the  assumption  that	suchauthority will act in an arbitrary manner in exercising	 thediscretion committed to it."The above observations of Kania, C. J., were then quoted andthe judgment proceeded:-"  On  the  contrary, it is to be  presumed  that  a  publicauthority  will act honestly and reasonably in the  exerciseof its statutory powers.....................................We  may	 lastly refer to the observations of this  Court  inPannalal Binjraj v. Union of India (2):-" It may also be remembered that this power is vested not inminor  officials  but in top-ranking  authorities  like	 theCommissioner of Income-tax and the Central Board of  Revenuewho  act on the information supplied to them by the  Income-tax Officers concerned.	 This power is discretionary and notnecessarily  discriminatory  and abuse of  power  cannot  beeasily	assumed where the discretion is vested in such	highofficials.  (Vide Matajog Dobey v. H. S. Bhari, [1955] 2  S.C.  R.	925,  932).  There is moreover	a  presumption	thatpublic officials will discharge their duties honestly and inaccordance with the rules of law. (Vide People of the  Stateof  New York v. John E. Van De Carr, etc., (1950-310-199  U.S. 552; 50 L. Ed. 305)).  It has also been observed by	thisCourt in A. Thangal Kunju(1) (1952] S. C. R. 284, 301.(2) [1957] S. C. R. 233. 257, 258.527Musaliar v. M. Venkitachalam Potti, [1955] 2 S. C. R.  1196,with reference to the possibility of discrimination  betweenassessees  in the matter of the reference of their cases  tothe  Income-tax Investigation Commission that " it is to  bepresumed,   unless  the	 contrary  were	 shown,	  that	 theadministration of a particular law would be done " not	withan evil eye and unequal hand " and the selection made by theGovernment  of	the  cases of persons  to  be  referred	 forinvestigation	 by    the   Commission	  would	   not	  bediscriminatory."This  presumption, however, cannot be stretched too far	 andcannot be carried to the extent of always holding that theremust  be some undisclosed and unknown reason for  subjectingcertain	  individuals	or  corporations  to   hostile	 anddiscriminatory treatment (Vide Gulf, Colorado, etc. v. W. H.Ellis,	(1897) 165 U.S. 150; 41 L. Ed. 666).  There  may  becases  where  improper	execution of power  will  result  ininjustice  to the parties.  As has been	 observed,  however,the  possibility  of such  discriminatory  treatment  cannotnecessarily invalidate the legislation and where there is anabuse  of such power, the parties aggrieved are not  withoutample  remedies	 under the law (Vide  Dinabandhu.   Sahu  v.Jadumony Mangaraj, [1955] 1 S. C. R. 140,146).	What will bestruck	down in such cases will not be the  provision  whichinvests the authorities with such power but the abuse of thepower itself."It,  therefore,	 follows  that s. 7 of	the  Act  cannot  beimpugned   on	the  ground  of	 excessive   delegation	  oflegislative power.All  the  various  contentions	urged  by  the	 petitionerstherefore fail and the result is that the petitions filed bythe petitioners before us must be dismissed with costs.	 TheState  of Bombay which is the only respondent in  all  thesepetitions will however get only one set of costs therein.		      Petitions dismissed.528