PETITIONER:K. N. MEHRA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF RAJASTHANDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/02/1957BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  369		  1957 SCR  623ACT:Aircraft,   Theft  of-Used  for	 training-Implied   consent-Dishonest  intention-Temporary retention-Theft and  Larceny,Distinction  -Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860),  SS.	 23,24, 378.HEADNOTE:By s. 378 of the Indian Penal Code: " Whoever, intending  totake dishonestly any movable property out of the  possessionof  any	 person without that person's  consent,	 moves	thatproperty in order to such taking, is said to commit theft ".P  and the appellant were cadets on training in	 the  IndianAir Force Academy, jodhpur, but P had been discharged on theground	of  misconduct, and on the day of the  incident	 theappellant was due for a local flight in a Dakota as part  ofhis  training as a Navigator.  With the help of P, who	knewflying,	 he took off another type of aircraft, Harvard	H.T.822, without authorisation, and on the same day they  force-landed	at  a  place  in Pakistan.   Some  days	 later	theycontacted the authorities in the Indian High Commission	 andon  their  way to India they were arrested  at	jodhpur	 andprosecuted for the theft of the aircraft.  It was  contendedfor  the  appellant that as a cadet under  training  he	 wasentitled  to take an aircraft on flight and therefore  therewas  an	 implied  consent to the "moving"  of  the  aircraftwithin	the meaning of s. 378 of the Indian Penal Code,	 andconsequently  there  could be no dishonest  intention,	muchless  such  an	intention at the time when  the	 flight	 wasstarted,  so as to constitute theft.  It was found that	 thepurpose	 for  which the flight was undertaken was to  go  toPakistan with a view to seeking employment there.Held, that as the flight was unauthorised there could be  noconsent,  and  as  it was unlawful at  the  outset,  in	 thecircumstances  of  the case, and the  appellant	 obtained  atemporary  use	of  the aircraft for his  own  purposes	 anddeprived  the Government of its use, there was	a  dishonestintention,  and consequently the flight constituted a  theftof the aircraft.A  temporary  retention of property by a  person  wrongfullygaining thereby or a temporary keeping out of property	fromthe  person  legally entitled thereto, may amount  to  theftunder  S. 378 of the-Indian Penal Code, and in this  respectthe  offence  differs from "larceny" in	 English  Law  whichcontemplates permanent gain or less.Queen-Empress v. Nagappa, (1890) I.L.R. 15 Bom. 344 andQueen-Empress  v.  Sri Churn Chungo, (1895) I.L.R.  22	Cal.1017, referred to.624JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION  Criminal Appeal No. 51  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober 22, 1953, of the Rajasthan High Court at Jodhpur  inCriminal Revision No. 88 of 1953 arising out of the judgmentand order dated May 18, 1953, of the Court of Sessions Judgeat Jodhpur in Criminal Appeal No. 31 of 1953.Jai Gopal Sethi and B. S. Narula, for the appellant.R.   Ganpathy Iyer, Porus A. Mehta and B. H. Dhebar, for therespondent.1957.  February ll.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyJAGANNADHADAS  J.-The appellant, K. N. Mehra, and one M.  Z.Phillips  were	both convicted under s. 379  of	 the  IndianPenal Code and sentenced to simple imprisonment by the trialMagistrate  for eighteen months and a fine of Rs.  750	withsimple	imprisonment  in default of payment of	fine  for  afurther	 term of four months.  The conviction  and  sentenceagainst	 them have been confirmed on appeal by the  SessionsJudge and on revision by the High Court.  The appeal  beforeus  is by special leave obtained on behalf of the  appellantMehra alone.Both  Mehra  and  Phillips were cadets on  training  in	 theIndian Air Force Academy, Jodhpur.  The prosecution is	withreference to an incident which is rather extraordinary beingfor  alleged theft of an aircraft, which, according  to	 theevidence  of the Commanding 'Officer, P.W. 1, has  never  sofar  occurred.	 The  alleged theft was	 on  May  14,  1952.Phillips  was discharged from the Academy just the  previousday,  i.e., May 13, 1952, on grounds of	 misconduct.   Mehrawas a cadet receiving training as a Navigator.	The duty  ofa  Navigator  is  only to guide a pilot	 with  the  help  ofinstruments  and  maps.	 It is not clear from  the  evidencewhether	 Phillips  also	 had been receiving  training  as  aNavigator.  It is in evidence, however, that he knew flying.On May 14, 1952, Phillips was due to leave Jodhpur by  trainin  view  of his discharge.  Mehra was due for flight  in  aDakota as part of his training along625with one Om Prakash, a flying cadet.  It is in evidence thathe  had information about it.  The authorised time  to	takeoff  for  the  flight was between 6 a.m. to  6-30  a.m.	 Thecadets	under training have generally either  local  flightswhich mean flying area of about 20 miles from the  aerodromeor they may have cross-country exercises and have flight  inthe   country	through	 the  route  for  which	  they	 arespecifically  authorised.  On that morning admittedly  Mehraand Phillips took off, not a Dakota, but a Harvard H.T. 822.This  was done before the prescribed time, i.e., at about  5a.m. without authorisation and without observing any of	 theformalities, which are prerequisites for an aircraft-flight.It is also admitted that some time in the forenoon the	sameday they landed at a place in Pakistan about 100 miles	awayfrom the Indo-Pakistan border.	It is in the evidence of oneJ. C. Kapoor who was the Military Adviser to the Indian HighCommissioner in Pakistan at Karachi, that Mehra and Phillipscontacted  him in person on the morning of May	16,1952,  atabout  7 a.m. and informed him that they had lost their	 wayand  force-landed in a field, and that they left  the  planethere.	 They  requested for his help to go back  to  Delhi.Thereupon  Kapoor arranged for both of them being sent	backto  Delhi  in  an Indian National  Airways  plane  and	alsoarranged  for  the  Harvard  aircraft  being  sent  away  toJodhpur.   While they were thus on their return to Delhi  onMay 17, 1952, the plane was stopped at Jodhpur and they wereboth arrested.The   case  for	 the  prosecution,  as	appears	  from	 thequestioning of the trial Magistrate under s. 342 of the Codeof  Criminal  Procedure, was that Mehra along with  his	 co-accused	 Phillips stole away the aircraft Harvard  H.T.	 822and  flew  with it to Pakistan with a  dishonest  intention.The  defence,  as appears from the answers thereto,  was  asfollows.  Mehra went to the aerodrome on the morning of	 May14,  at the usual time and took off the aircraft along	withPhillips  and they flew for some time.	After a short  whilethe weather became bad and visibility became poor and  hencethey turned the aircraft back towards Jodhpur-side by guess.They continued what they thought to be the return journey626for sometime; but finding the petrol nearing exhaustion theyforce-landed in a field which, on enquiry, they came to knowwas  in	 Pakistan  territory.  This  defence  has  not	beenaccepted and the Courts below have held the prosecution caseto have been proved.Learned counsel for the appellant, Shri Sethi, attempted, tominimise the gravity of the incident by characterising it asa  thoughtless	prank on the part of a	young  student	agedabout 22 years who was receiving training as a flying  cadetand  that there can be no question of any offence under	 thePenal Code having been committed, whatever may have been thebreach	of rules and regulations involved thereby.  None  ofthe  three courts below who have dealt with this  case	wereprepared  to accept any such suggestion.  Indeed in view  ofthe fact that the appellant himself has not put forward	 anysuch  defence  it is impossible to accede to it.   The	nextcontention of the learned counsel for the appellant-and thatappears also to be the defence of the appellant-is that as acadet under training he was entitled to take an aircraft  onflight,	 no doubt subject to certain rules  and	 regulationsand  that  what at beat happened was nothing  more  than  anunauthorised  flight  by a trainee as part of  his  trainingwhich  was due and in which he lost his way.  He had to	 getforce-landed  in an unknown place and this turned out to  bePakistan territory.  The prosecution case, however, is	thatthe flight to Pakistan was intentional and that such  flightin the circumstances constituted theft of the aircraft.	 Themain  question	of,  fact to be	 determined,  therefore,  iswhether this was intentional flight into Pakistan territory.It has been strenuously pressed upon us that the trial courtwas not prepared to accept the story that the flight was  anintentional   one  to  Pakistan	 and  hence  there  was	  nojustification for the appellate court and the High Court  tofind the contrary.  It is also pointed out that Kapoor,	 theMilitary   Adviser  to	the  Indian  High  Commissioner	  inPakistan,  gave	 evidence'  that  when	the  appellant	 andPhillips -met him at Karachi on the morning of May 16, 1952,they told him that they wanted to fly to Delhi with a,	viewto contact the higher authorities627there.	 It was also pointed out that neither the  appellantnor  Phillips  took  with them in the flight  any  of  theirbelongings.   Now  it  is clear from the  judgments  of	 thecourts	below that both the High Court on revision, as	wellas the Sessions Judge on appeal, came to a clear finding  onthis  matter  against the appellant.  It is  true  that	 the-trial court said that the suggestion that the appellant andPhillips  wanted to go to Delhi was not beyond the realm  ofpossibility.   But it gave effect to this  possibility	onlyfor determining the sentence.  The trial Court also seems tohave  been  of	the view that the flight  was  intended	 forPakistan  as  appears  from the	 following  passage  in	 itsjudgment." Although the facts on the record point almost conclusivelythat they were heading towards Pakistan, it is impossible todismiss	 the  other theory beyond the realm  of	 possibilitythat  they  were  going	 to  Delhi  to	contact	 the  higherauthorities there."In  contemplating this possibility the trial Court seems  tohave  lost sight of the fact that the Delhi theory  was	 notthe  defence  of  the  appellant  in  his  answers  to	 thequestioning under s. 342 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure.It  was	 obviously  an excuse given to Kapoor  in  order  toimpress	 him that their flight was innocent and to  persuadehim  to send them back to Delhi instead of to Jodhpur.	 Thesignificance  of this plea, however, is that the  suggestionthat  the  flight was by way of a prank or as  part  of	 theflying	 lessons  though  unauthorised	in  the	  particularinstance, is clearly untenable.In view however of the somewhat halting finding of the trialCourt  on  this	 matter,  we have  been	 taken	through	 theevidence.   It would be enough to mention broadly the  factsfrom which, in our opinion, the conclusion arrived at by theCourts	below that the flight was intended for	Pakistan  isnot without sufficient reason and justification.  As alreadystated, the aircraft in which the appellant was scheduled tofly  on the morning of May 14, was a Dakota but he took	 offin  a Harvard plane.  It is in evidence that this  was	donebetween	 5 a.m. and 5-30 a.m., i.e., before  the  prescribedtime.  The plane had just then been628brought out from the hangar in order to be utilised for someother  flight in the regular course.  Appellant started	 theengine himself by misrepresenting to P. W. 12, the  mechanicon  duty  at the hangar, that he had the permission  of	 theSection	 Officer  in charge.  He was scheduled to  have	 theflight along with another person, a flight-cadet by name  OmPrakash.   But he did not fly, with Om Prakash, but  managedto  take  with him a discharged cadet,	Phillips,  who	knewflying.	  Before any aircraft can be taken off,	 the  flighthas  to	 be authorised by the Flight  Commander.   A  flightauthorisation book and form No. 700 have to be signed by theperson	who  is	 to take off the aircraft  for	the  flight.Admittedly  these  have not been done in this  case  and  noauthorisation  was given.  The explanation of the  appellantis  that  this	is not uncommon.  These,  however,  are	 notmerely empty formalities but are required for the safety  ofthe aircraft as well as of the persons flying in it.  It  isimpossible to accept the suggestion of the appellant that itis usual to allow trainees to take off the aircraft  withoutcomplying  with	 these	essential  preliminaries.   No	suchsuggestion has been made in cross-examination to any of	 theofficers,  and	witnesses, who have been  examined  for	 theprosecution.   It is in evidence that as soon as the  takingoff of the aircraft was discovered, it inevitably  attractedthe attention of officers and other persons in the aerodromeand  that  radio signals were immediately sent	out  to	 theoccupants in the aircraft to bring the same back at once  tothe  aerodrome.	  But these signals were. not  heeded.	 Theexplanation  of the appellant is that the full apparatus  ofthe  radio-telephone was not with them in the  aircraft	 andthat he did not receive the message.  The appellant goes  sofar  as	 to say that there were also no maps or	 compass  orwatch  in  the	aircraft.  It is  proved,  however,  on	 theevidence  of  the responsible officers	connected  with	 theaerodrome   and	 by  production	 of  Ex.   P-6,	 that	thisparticular  aircraft,  before it was brought  out  from	 thehangar, had been tested and was airworthy.  It is  difficultto  believe  that  the flight  would  have  been  undertakenwithout all the629equipment being in order.  Even according to the evidence ofKapoor, the Military Adviser to the Indian High Commissionerin  Pakistan, the appellant and Phillips had told  him	thatthe  plane was airworthy.  The suggestion of the  appellant,therefore, in this behalf cannot obviously be accepted.	  Ithas been pointed out to us that there is some support in theevidence  for the suggestion of force-landing on account  ofthe  weather being bad and the visibility being poor.	Thismay  be	 so, but would not explain why the  air.  craft	 gotforce-landed  after going beyond the  Indo-Pakistan  border.There  is  evidence  to show that the  appellant  Mehra	 wasfeeling some kind of dissatisfaction with his course and wascontemplating a change.	 Seeking employment in Pakistan was,according  to  the evidence, one of the ideas in  his  mind,though	in a very indefinite sort of way.  Having regard  toall  these circumstances and the fact that -must be  assumedagainst	 the appellant that an airworthy aircraft was  takenoff  for  flight and that a person like	 Phillips  who	knewflying sufficiently well and who was discharged the previousday,  was  deliberately	 taken into  the  aircraft,  we	 aresatisfied  that the finding of the Courts below, viz.,	thatthe  flight to Pakistan was intentional and not	 accidental,was justified.	It is, therefore, not possible to treat	 thefacts.	of  this  case	as  being a  mere  prank  or  as  anunauthorised cross-country flight in the course of which theborder	was  accidentally crossed and  force-landing  becameinevitable.It  has	 been  strenuously  urged that	if  the	 flight	 wasintended to be to Pakistan the appellant and Phillips  wouldnot  have  contacted Kapoor and requested him to  send	themback to Delhi.	But this does not necessarily negative theirintention  at the time of taking off.  It may be that  afterreaching  Pakistan  the impracticability  of  their  venturedawned	upon  them and they gave it up.	 It may	 be  noticedthat they were in fact in Pakistan territory for three	daysand we have nothing but their own word as to how they  spentthe time on the 14th and 15th.	However this may be, if	 thecircumstances  are such from which a Court of fact is  in  aposition to infer the purpose630and intention and the story of having lost the way cannot beaccepted having regard to the aircraft being airworthy, withthe   necessary	 equipment,  the  finding  that	 it  was   adeliberate   flight  to	 Pakistan  cannot  be  said  to	  beunreasonable.	It may be true that they did not  take	withthem  any of their belongings but this was probably part  ofthe  plan  in  order to take off by surprise  and  does	 notexclude	 the idea of an exploratory flight to Pakistan.	  Wemust,  therefore, accept the findings of the  Courts  below.In  that view, the only point for consideration	 is  whetherthe facts held to be proved constitute theft under s. 378 ofthe Indian Penal Code.Theft is defined in a. 378 of the Indian Penal Codeas follows:"  Whoever,  intending	to  take  dishonestly  any   movableproperty  out of the possession of any' person without	thatperson's  consent,  moves  that property in  order  to	suchtaking, is said to commit theft.  "Commission  of	theft, therefore, consists in (1)  moving  amovable	 property of a person out of his possession  withouthis consent, (2) the moving being in order to the taking  ofthe  property  with a dishonest intention.   Thus,  (1)	 theabsence - of the person's consent at the time of moving, and(2) the presence of dishonest intention in so taking and  atthe  time, are the essential ingredients of the	 offence  oftheft.	 In the Courts below a contention was raised,  whichhas  also  been pressed here, that in the  circumstances  ofthis  case  there was implied consent to the moving  of	 theaircraft  inasmuch as the appellant was a cadet who, in	 thenormal	course, would be allowed to fly in an  aircraft	 forpurposes of training.  It is quite clear, however, that	 thetaking	out  of	 the aircraft in the  present  case  had  norelation  to  any  such training.  It  was  in	an  aircraftdifferent  from that which was intended for the	 appellant'straining  course for the day.  It was taken out without	 theauthority of the Flight Commander and, before the  appointedtime,  in the company of a person like Phillips who,  havingbeen  discharged,  could  not  be  allowed  to	fly  in	 theaircraft.  The flight was persisted in, in spite of  signalsto, return back631when  the unauthorised nature of the flight was	 discovered.It is impossible to imply consent in such a situation.The   main  contention	of  the	 learned  counsel  for	 theappellant,  however, is that there is no proof in this	caseof  any dishonest intention, much less of such an  intentionat  the	 time when the flight was started.   It	 is  rightlypointed out that since the definition of theft requires thatthe moving of the property is to be in order to such taking," such " meaning " intending to take dishonestly ", the verymoving	out  must be with the dishonest	 intention.   It  isaccordingly  necessary	to  consider  what  "  dishonest   "intention consists of under the Indian Penal Code.   Section24  of the Code says that " whoever does anything  with	 theintention of causing wrongful gain to one person or wrongfulloss   to   another  person  is	 said  to  do	that   thingdishonestly".  Section 23 of the Code says as follows:"I  Wrongful gain' is gain by unlawful means of property  towhich the person gaining is not legally entitled.'Wrongful loss' is the loss by unlawful means of property towhich the person losing it is legally entitled.A person is said to gain wrongfully when such person retainswrongfully, as well as when such person acquires wrongfully.A  person  is said to lose wrongfully when  such  person  iswrongfully  kept out of any property, as well as  when	suchperson is wrongfully deprived of property.  "Taking these two definitions together, a person can be	saidto have dishonest intention if in taking the property it  ishis  intention	to  cause gain, by unlawful  means,  of	 theproperty  to  which  the person so gaining  is	not  legallyentitled or to cause loss, by wrongful means, of property towhich  the  person  so losing is legally  entitled.   It  isfurther	 clear	from the definition that the  gain  or	losscontemplated  need  not be a total acquisition	or  a  totaldeprivation but it is enough if it is a temporary  retentionof property by the person wrongfully gaining or a  temporary"  keeping  out	 "  of	property  from	the  person  legallyentitled.  This is632clearly	 brought  out in illustration (1) to s. 378  of	 theIndian	Penal  Code and is uniformly recognised	 by  variousdecisions  of the High Courts which point out that  in	thisrespect " theft " under the Indian Penal Code differs from "larceny	 " in English law which contemplated permanent	gainor  loss.  (See QueenEmpress V. Sri Churn  Chungo  (1),	 andQueen-Empress  v. Nagappa (2)).	 In the present	 case  therecan  be	 no  reasonable doubt that the	taking	out  of	 theHarvard	 aircraft  by  the appellant  for  the	unauthorisedflight has in fact given the appellant the temporary use  ofthe  aircraft  for  his	 own  purpose  and  has	 temporarilydeprived the owner of the aircraft, viz., the Government, ofits  legitimate use for its purposes, i.e., the use of	thisHarvard aircraft for the Indian Air Force Squadron that day.Such use being unauthorised and against all the	 regulationsof  aircraft-flying was clearly a gain or loss	by  unlawfulmeans.	 Further, the unlawful aspect is emphasised  by	 thefact that it was for flight to a place in Pakistan.  Learnedcounsel	 for the appellant has urged that the  courts  belowhave treated absence of consent as making out dishonesty andhave  not clearly appreciated that the two are distinct	 andessential  constituents of the offence of theft.   The	trueposition,  however,  is that all the  circumstances  of	 theunauthorised  flight justify the conclusion both as  to	 theabsence	 of consent and as to the unlawfulness of the  meansby  which there has been a temporary gainor loss by the	 useof  the aircraft.  We are, therefore, satisfied	 that  therehas  been both wrongful, gain to the appellant and  wrongfulloss to the Government.The  only further questions that remain	 for  consideration,therefore, are whether the causing of such wrongful gain  orloss,  was intentional and if so whether such intention	 wasentertained at the time when the aircraft was taken.  If, asalready	 found,	 the  purpose  for  which  the	flight	 wasundertaken was to go to Pakistan, and if in order to achievethat purpose, breach of various regulations relating to	 theinitial taking out of such aircraft for flight was committedat the very out set, there is no difficulty in coming to the(1)  [1895] I.L.R. 22 Cal. 1017.PI(2) [1890] I.L.R. 15 Bom. 344.633conclusion,  as	 the  courts  below  have  done,  that	 thedishonest  intention, if any, was at the very outset.	Thisis  not	 a  case  where a person -in  the  position  of	 theappellant  started on an authorised flight and exploited  itfor  a dishonest purpose in the course thereof.	 In  such  acase,  inference  of  initial  dishonest  intention  may  bedifficult.   The question, however, is whether the  wrongfulgain  and the wrongful loss were intentional.  It  is  urgedthat the well-known distinction which the Penal Code -makes,in  various places, between intention to cause a  particularresult	and  the  knowledge  of	 likelihood  of	 causing   aparticular  result  has not been appreciated.	It  is	alsosuggested  that the decided cases have pointed out that	 themaxim -that every person must be taken to intend the naturalconsequence  of	 his acts, is a legal fiction which  is	 notrecognised for penal consequences in the Indian Penal  Code.(See Vullappa v. Bheema Row (1)).  Now whatever may be	saidabout these distinctions in an appropriate case, there is noscope  for any doubt in this case, that though the  ultimatepurpose of the flight was to go to Pakistan, the use of	 theaircraft  for  that purpose and the unauthorised  and  henceunlawful  gain	of  that  use  to  the	appellant  and	 theconsequent loss to the Government of its legitimate use, canonly  be considered intentional.  This is not by  virtue  ofany presumption but as a legitimate inference from the factsand circumstances of the case.	We are, therefore, satisfiedthat  the facts proved constitute theft.  The conviction  ofthe appel. lant under s. 379 of the Indian Penal Code is, inour opinion, right and there is no reason to interfere	withthe same.Learned counsel for the appellant has very strenuously urgedthat  the  circumstances  of the case  do  not	warrant	 theimposition   of	  a   substantial   sentence   of   (simple)imprisonment  for eighteen months.  He also' urges that	 theappellant,  who is now on bail, has undergone  his  sentencefor nearly an year and presses upon us that the interests ofthe  justice  in the case, do not require  that,  after	 thelapse of over four years from the date of the commission  ofthe offence, a young man(1)  A.I.R. 1918 Mad. 136 (2) F.B.634in the appellant's situation should be sent back to jail  toserve  out  the rest of the sentence.  We  have	 ascertainedfrom  the  Advocate appearing for the  Government  that	 theappellant has already. served a sentence of 11 months and 27days.	Learned counsel for the appellant has also  informedus  that  the appellant was in judicial	 custody  for  abouteleven	months as an under-trial prisoner.  In view  of	 allthe  circumstances of the case, we agree that the  interestsof justice do not call for his being sent back to jail.While,	 therefore,  maintaining  the  conviction   of	 theappellant,   K.	 N.  Mehra,  we	 reduce	 the   sentence	  ofimprisonment  against him to the period	 already  undergone.The  sentence  of fine and the sentence of  imprisonment  indefault	 thereof  shall stand.	With this  modification,  insentence, the appeal is dismissed.Appeal dismissed, and sentence modified.