PETITIONER:KANGSARI HALDAR & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:18/12/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  457		  1960 SCR  (2) 646 CITATOR INFO : R	    1967 SC1581	 (23) R	    1974 SC2009	 (12,15) F	    1974 SC2044	 (3) R	    1979 SC 478	 (72,73)ACT:Criminal  Trial-Statute	 Providing  for	 trials	 by  specialTribunals of specified offences committed in disturbed areasduring	  specified	Periods-Constitutionality-Reasonableclassification-Test -Tribunals of Criminal jurisdiction Act,1952 (W.B. Act XIV of 1952), s. 2(b), proviso to s- 4(1).HEADNOTE:The appellants were prosecuted for having committed offencesunder S. 120B read with Ss. 302 and 436 of the Indian  PenalCode and their case was taken up for trial before the  ThirdTribunal  constituted  under the West  Bengal  Tribunals  ofCriminal jurisdiction Act, 1952 (W.B. Act XIV of 1952).	  Bya notification dated September 12, 1952, and issued under S.2(b)  of the Act the Government of West Bengal declared	 thewhole  area  within the jurisdiction of	 Kakdwip  and  SagarPolice	Stations  to be a disturbed area and  specified	 theperiod	from January 1, 1948, to March 31, 1950, to  be	 theperiod	during which the notification was to  be  effective.The  case against the appellants was that between the  datesmentioned  in the notification, they took leading part in  aviolent movement called the Tebhaga movement in Kakdwip	 andincited	 the Bhagehasis, i.e., the cultivators who  actuallycultivated the land, to claim the entire crop instead of 2/3share of it and that they preached murder and arson  amongstthe cultivators and such preaching was followed by arson andmurder	on  a large scale.  The appellants  moved  the	HighCourt for an order quashing the proceedings against them  onthe  ground  that  S. 2(b) of the  Act,	 which	allowed	 theGovernment  to	declare	 an  area in which  "  there  was  "disturbance  in	 the past to be a disturbed  area,  offendedArt.  14  Of  the  Constitution	 as  discriminating  betweenpersons who had committed the same offences and whose trialshad  already  concluded before the  notification  under	 thenormal	and  more advantageous procedure  and  others  whosetrials	had not concluded and who had to be tried by a	lessadvantageous  and special procedure prescribed by  the	Act.The application of the appellants was first heard by a benchof two judges but as there was difference of opinion betweenthem the matter was referred to a third judge, and the	HighCourt by a majority held that the provisions of the impugnedAct  were  intra  vires and did not offend Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution.On appeal by special leave challenging the vires Of S.	2(b)and the proviso to S. 4(1) Of the Act,Held  (per Sinha, C.J., Gajendragadkar and Shah, jj.),	thatthe  equality  before law, guaranteed by Art. 14,  no  doubtprohibits  class  legislation but it does not  prohibit	 theLegislature to legislate647on  the basis of a reasonable classification.  If any  stateoff   acts  can	 reasonably  be	 conceived  to	 sustain   aclassification, the existence of that state of facts must beassumed.Chiranjitlal  Choudhuri	 v. The Union of India	and  Others,[1950]	S.C.R.	869 and Kedar Nath Bajoria v. The  State  ofWest Bengal, [1954] S.C.R. 30, followed.Where the classification is reasonable and is founded on  anintelligible differentia and that differentia has a rationalrelation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute,the   validity	of  the	 statute  cannot   be	successfullychallenged under Art. 14.  Since the classification made  bythe  impugned Act is rational and the differentia  by  whichoffenders  are classified has a rational relation  with	 theobject	of  the Act to provide for the speedy trial  of	 theoffences specified in the Schedule, S. 2(b) and the  provisoto s. 4(1) of the Act cannot be said to contravene Art. 1 Ofthe Constitution even though the procedure prescribed by theAct may amount to discrimination.The State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar, [1952]  S.C.R.284, distinguished.Kathi Raning Rawat v. The State of Saurashtra, [1952] S.C.R.435,  Lachmandas Kewalram Ahuja and Another v. The State  OfBombay,	  [1952]  S  C.R.  710	and  Gopi  Chand  v.   DelhiAdministration, A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 609, considered.Per  Sarkar and Subba Rao, jj. (dissenting).-Whether  a	 lawoffends	 Art. 14 or not does not depend upon whether  it  isprospective  or	 retrospective	for  both  prospective	 andretrospective'	statutes  may contravene the  provisions  ofthat Article.  Although the general rule is that a law	mustapply to all persons, it is permissible to validly legislatefor a class within certain well recognised limits.  The truetest of a valid classification is that it must be capable ofbeing reasonably regarded as being based upon a	 differentiawhich	distinguishes  that  class  from  others,  and	 thedifferentia itself must have a reasonable relation with	 theobject the statute has in view.Shri  Ram  Krishna Dalmia v. Shri  justice  S.R.  Tendolkar,[1959] S.C.R. 279, followed.The  object of the Act in question being to secure a  speedytrial  of  certain offences committed in  a  specified	areaduring	a  specified period of time in the interest  of	 thesecurity  of the State and the maintenance of  public  peaceand  tranquillity  in a disturbed area, a  distinction	madebetween	 the cases where the trials had been  concluded	 andthe  cases where the trials had not yet been  concluded,  isnot  a	distinction which has any rational relation  to	 theobject.	  In order to secure that object it is necessary  toplace both classes of persons in the same situation.Gopi  Chand v. Delhi Administration, A.I.R. 1959  S.C.	609,distinguished.648The  Act  in  so  far as it permits  an	 area  which  was  adisturbed  area in the past to be declared a disturbed	areafor  the  purposes  of	the  Act  offends  Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution  and is, therefore, unconstitutional and  void.That portion Of S. 2(b) which declares	an  area  to  be   adisturbed area in the past and the notification in  questionmust therefore be held to be void.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 204  of1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJune  23,  1959,  of the Calcutta  High	 Court	in  CriminalRevision No. 640 of 1958.S. K.	  Acharya and Janardan Sharma, for the appellants.S.   M.	 Bose,	Advocate-General  for, the   State  of	WestBengal, K. C. Mukherjee and P. K. Bose, for the respondent.1959.	 December  18.	 The  judgment	of  Sinha,  C.	 J.,Gajendragadkar and Shah, JJ. was delivered by GajendragadkarJ.  The judgment of Sarkar and Subba Rao, JJ. was  deliveredby Sarkar, J.GAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This appeal by special  leave  challengesthe vires of S. 2(b) and the proviso to s. 4(1) of the	WestBengal	Tribunals of Criminal Jurisdiction Act,	 1952  (W.B.Act XIV of 1952) (hereinafter called the Act).	A  complaintwas  filed against Kangsari Haldar and Jogendra	 Nath  Guria(hereinafter called the appellants) in which it was  allegedthat  the  appellants along with some others  had  committedoffences  under	 s. 120B read with ss. 302 and	436  of	 theIndian Penal Code.  The case against them was that in 1947 atebhaga	 movement had been launched in Kakdwip area  by	 thecommunist  party  and  that later  on  the  Bhagehasis	werepersuaded  to  claim  the entire and not  only	2/3  of	 theproduce	 in pursuance of the said movement.  It was  furtheralleged	 that  the leaders of said  movement  including	 theappellants preached murder and arson amongst the cultivatorsand  that  such preaching and propaganda  were	followed  byarson  and  murders  on	 a large scale.	  It  was  on  theseallegations  that a charge-sheet was submitted	against	 theappellants and the case649against them taken up for trial before the Third Tribunal atAlipore	 constituted  under the Act.   Ninetynine  witnesseswere examined by the prosecution in support of its case	 andthe tribunal framed charges against the appellants under thethree sections already mentioned by its order dated May	 16,1958.	The  offences in question are alleged to  have	beencommitted during the period beginning from January 1,  1948,and  ending  on March 31, 1950, within Kakdwip	and  Sagaourpolice stations.By  their Criminal Revision Application No. 640 of 1958	 theappellants challenged the validity of the proceedings beforethe  tribunal and applied for quashing the said	 proceedingsand the charges framed against them under s. 439 of the Codeof   Criminal  Procedure  as  well  as	Art.  227   of	 theConstitution in the Calcutta High Court.  Their	 applicationwas first heard by Mitter and Bhattacharya, JJ. ; but  sincethere  was a difference of opinion between the	two  learnedjudges	the case was referred to Sen, J.  Bhattacharya,	 J.,had  taken the view that the impugned provisions of the	 Actwere  ultra  vires  and	 so he was  inclined  to  allow	 therevision application and quash the proceedings taken againstthe appellants ; on the other hand, Mitter, J., had taken  acontrary view, and Sen, J., to whom the matter was  referredagreed	with the view taken by Mitter, J. In the  result  itwas held that the impugned provisions of the Act were  intravires  and  so the rule issued on the  appellants'  revisionapplication  was discharged and the application	 itself	 wasdismissed.   The  appellants then applied to the  said	HighCourt for a certificate either under Art. 132 or under	Art.134   of  the  Constitution  but  their	 applications	weredismissed.  Thereupon they moved for, and obtained,  specialleave  from  this Court.  That is how this appeal  has	comebefore	this Court; and the only point which it	 raises	 forour  decision  is  about  the  vires  of  the  two  impugnedprovisions of the Act.On  behalf of the appellants Mr. Acharya has contended	thatthe  genesis of the Act should be borne in mind	 in  dealingwith the vires of the impuged provisions ; and in support ofthis argument he has strongly83650relied on the sequence of events which led to the passing ofthe Act.  It appears that the West Bengal special Courts ActX of 1950, was passed by the West  Bengal  Legislature	 andcame into force on March 15,  1950.  The vires of s. 5(1) ofthe  said Act were impeached by Anwar Ali Sarkar and  otherswho  were being tried under the provisions of the said	Act.On August 28, 1951, the Calcutta High Court partially upheldthe plea and struck down a part of s. 5(1).  The said  deci-sion was challenged by the State of West Bengal before	thisCourt in The State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar (1)  ;but the appeal preferred by the State was dismissed; and  bya majority decision of this Court not only a part of s. 5(1)but the whole of it was declared to be ultra vires as  beingviolative of Art. 14 of the Constitution.  This decision waspronounced   on	 January  11,  1952.   Soon  thereafter	  anOrdinance  was	promulgated  (No.  1 of 1952)  by  the	WestBengal Government on March 24, 1952, and in due course	thisOrdinance  was replaced by the Act which came into force  onJuly 30, 1952.	Section 12 of the Act purports to repeal theearlier Act of 1950 in conformity with the decision of	thisCourt in Anwar Ali Sarkar's case (1).  The argument is	thatby passing the Act the West Bengal Government has  attemptedto  achieve the same result which it intended to achieve  bys.  5(1)  of  the  earlier Act, and  so,  according  to	 theappellants, in substance the decision of this Court in AnwarAli  Sarkar's  case(1)	should govern the  decision  of	 thepresent	 appeal.  In any case it is urged that the  sequenceof  events  which supply the background to the	present	 Actshould carefully be borne in mind in dealing with the meritsof the points raised by the appellants.The  challenge	to the vires of the impugned  provisions  isbased on the ground that they violate the fundamental  rightguaranteed  by Art. 14 of the Constitution.  The  scope	 andeffect of the provisions of Art. 14 have been considered  bythis  Court  on several occasions, and the matter  has	beenclarified  beyond all doubt.  The equality before law  whichis   guaranteed	 by  Art.  14  no  doubt   prohibits   classlegislation(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 284.651but it does not prohibit the Legislature from legislating onthe   basis   of  a  reasonable	 classification.    If	 theclassification is reasonable and is founded on	intelligibledifferentia  and  the  said  differentia  have	a   rationalrelation to the object sought to be achieved by the  statutebased on such reasonable classification the validity of	 thestatute	 cannot	 be successfully challenged under  Art.	 14.These  propositions have been repeated so many times  duringthe   past   few   years  that	 they	now   sound   almostplatitudinous-.	  Thus	the enunciation	 of  the  principleswhich flow from. the fundamental rights enshrined in Art. 14now   presents	no  difficulty;	 it  is,  however,  in	 theapplication  of the said principles that difficulties  oftenarise.	 In  applying the said principles to  the  differentsets  of  facts presented by different	cases  emphasis	 mayshift  and the approach may not always be identical; but  itis inevitable that the final decision about the vires of anyimpugned  provision must depend upon the decision which	 thecourt reaches, having regard to the facts and  circumstancesof each case, the general scheme of the impugned Act and thenature	and effect of the provisions the vires of which	 areunder  examination.   Let us, therefore, first	examine	 therelevant  scheme of the Act and ascertain the effect of	 theprovisions under challenge.The  Act  was  passed because  the  Legislature	 thought  itexpedient in the interest of the security of the State,	 themaintenance  of	 public peace and tranquillity and  the	 duesafeguarding  of the industry and business, to	provide	 forthe speedy trial of the offences specified in the schedule.'Section 2(b) defines a disturbed area as meaning an area  inwhich in the opinion of the State Government-(i) there	was,or  (ii) there is, any extensive-disturbance of	 the  publicpeace  and  tranquillity and in respect of  which  area	 theState  Government has issued a notification  declaring	sucharea to be a disturbed area.  The section then adds that  incases  falling	under cl. (i) the  notification	 shall	haveeffect	during such period as may be specified therein,	 andin cases falling under cl. (ii) the notification shall	haveeffect from such date as may be specified in the652notification  until the notification is revoked.   It  wouldthus  be  noticed  that the disturbed area  can	 be  of	 twocategories; it can be an area where extensive disturbance asdescribed   had	 taken	place  but  at	the  time   of	 thenotification  the disturbance may have ceased; and  an	areawhere  the  disturbance is taking place at the time  of	 thenotification.  In respect of the first category of disturbedareas the notification has to specify the period covered  bythe  previous disturbance, and it is the specified  offenceswhich  had  taken  place during the said  period  that	fallwithin	the  mischief  of  the Act.   In  the  case  of	 thenotification  issued in respect of areas where	disturbancesare taking place the notification has effect from such	dateas  it may specify and it will continue to be  in  operationuntil  it  is  revoked.	 Section 2(d)  defines	a  scheduledoffence as any offence specified in the schedule and s. 2(e)defines	 a  tribunal  as  meaning  a  tribunal	of  CriminalJurisdiction  constituted  under  sub-s. (1) of	 s.  3.	 Thescheduled  offences  are specified in four  items.   Item  1deals with offences against the State prescribed by ch. 6 ofthe  Indian  Penal  Code.  Item 2 deals	 with  some  of	 theoffences  against human body and property covered by ch.  16and  ch. 17 of the Code.  Item 3 refers to some of the	saidoffences if they are committed in the course of a raid on ora riot in a factory or a mill or a workshop or a bank or  inrelation to transportation of property to or from a factory,mill,  workshop or bank; and the last item covers  cases  ofconspiracy  to	commit	or  any attempt	 to  commit  or	 anyabetment  of any of the offences specified in items 1 to  3.The scheme of the Act is thus to appoint special.  tribunalsto  try	 the scheduled offences which have  taken  place  indisturbed  areas as defined in s. 2(b).	 That is the  effectof  s.	4 of the Act.  The proviso to s.  4(1)	enables	 thetribunal when it is trying any case to try in its discretionany  offence other than a scheduled offence with  which	 theaccused may under the Code be charged at the same trial.  Inother  words, the trial of an accused person in	 respect  ofthe  scheduled offences may include any other offence  whichis  not included in the schedule and which would be  triableunder the provisions of the653Code.	As  we	have already indicated	the  present  appealchallenges the vires of s. 2(b) and the proviso to s. 4(1).It cannot be disputed that the procedure prescribed for	 thetrial  before  the tribunal under the Act  differs  in	somematerial,  particulars from the procedure prescribed by	 theCode, and the said difference can be treated as amounting todiscrimination	which is pre-judicial to the accused;  underthe  Act no commitment proceedings have to be taken and	 thebenefit of jury trial is denied.  The provision made by	 thefirst  proviso	-to s. 5 in respect of	adjournment  of	 thetrial  is also stricter and more stringent.  Similarly,	 theright of an accused person to claim a de novo trial where  ajudge  presiding  over	a tribunal ceases  to  be  availablebefore	the  completion	 of the	 trial	is  also  materiallyaffected  by  the  provisions  of s.  6.  Section  10  makesapplicable  the provisions of the Code or of any  other	 lawfor  the time being in force which may be applicable to	 thetrial  of  criminal cases in so far as they are	 not  incon-sistent	 with  the provisions of the Act.  Thus	 it  may  beconceded  that the appellants are entitled to complain	thaton  the	 whole	the procedure prescribed for  the  trial  ofscheduled offences under the Act amounts to  discrimination.The  question  is whether such discrimination  violates	 theprovisions of Art. 14.This  question necessarily leads us to inquire	whether	 thediscriminatory	provisions  of	the Act	 are  based  on	 anyrational classification, and whether the differentiation  ofthe  offenders brought within the mischief of the Act has  arational  nexus	 with the policy of the Act and	 the  objectwhich  it intends to achieve.  The preamble shows  that	 theLegislature   was  dealing  with  the  problem	 raised	  bydisturbances which had thrown a challenge to the security ofthe State and raised a grave issue about the maintenance  ofpublic	peace  and  tranquillity  and  the  safeguarding  ofindustry  and business.	 It, therefore, decided to meet	 thesituation  by  providing for speedy trial of  the  scheduledoffences.   Thus  the object of the Act and  the  principlesunderlying  it	are not in doubt.  It is  true	that  speedytrial of all criminal offences is desirable; but there wouldbe no difficulty in appreciating the anxiety of the654Legislature  to provide for a special procedure	 for  tryingthe  scheduled	offences so as to avoid all  possible  delaywhich  may be involved if the normal procedure of  the	Codewas adopted.  If the disturbance facing the  areas  in	 theState had to be controlled and the mischief apprehended	 hadto  be	Checked and rooted out a very speedy  trial  of	 theoffences committed was obviously indicated.The  classification of offenders who are reached by the	 Actis obviously reasonable.  The offences specified in the fouritems in the schedule are clearly of such a character as ledto  the	 disturbance  and it is these  offences	 which	wereintended  to be speedily punished in order to put an end  tothe threat to the security of the State and the	 maintenanceof  public  peace  and tranquillity.  It would	be  idle  tocontend	 that if the offences of the type mentioned  in	 theschedule  were	committed and the Legislature  thought	thatthey led to the disruption of public peace and	tranquillityand caused jeopardy to the security of the State they  couldnot be dealt with as a class by themselves.  Other  offencescommitted  by  individuals  under  the	same  categories  ofoffences specified by the Code could be' rationally excludedfrom the classification adopted by the Act because they	 didnot  have the tendency to create the problem which  the	 Actintended  to  meet.  We are, therefore, satisfied  that	 theclassification	 made  by  the	Act  is	 rational  and	 thedifferentiation	 on which the offenders included within	 theAct  are  treated  as a class as  distinguished	 from  otheroffenders  has a rational nexus or relation with the  objectof  the	 Act and the policy underlying	it.   Therefore,  itwould  be difficult to accede to the argument that  the	 Actviolates Art. 14 of the Constitution.It  is,	 however, urged that s. 2(b)(i) is not	intra  viresbecause	 the  classification on which it is  based  violatesArt. 14.  This contention has taken a two-fold form.  It is-urged that the notification which is authorised to be issuedunder  s. 2(b)(i) necessarily deals with an area  which	 hasceased to be disturbed at the time when it is issued; and itis  inevitable that when such a notification is issued	someof the offences which would have655been tried under the Act as a result of the notification mayhave already. been tried under the ordinary Code, and it  isonly  such cases as are not disposed of on the date  of	 thenotification which would fall within the mischief of the Actand   that   constitutes   an	irrational   or	   arbitraryclassification.	 It is also urged that when the area coveredby  such a notification has ceased to be disturbed there  isno  rational or valid justification for applying the Act  tothe  offences  committed in such an area when in  the  othercontinuously  undisturbed  areas similar offences  would  betried  under the normal provisions of the Code.	 In fact  itis  these  two	aspects	 of the	 question  which  have	beenstrongly  pressed  before us by Mr. Acharya in	the  presentappeal.	 Before dealing with these two arguments it would berelevant to recall that this Court has accepted the  generalprinciple  that	 " if any state of facts can  reasonably  beconceived to sustain a classification, the existence of thatstate  of  facts  must	be  assumed  "	(Vide:	ChiranjitlalChaudhuri  v. The Union of India & Ors. (1) and	 Kedar	NathBajoria v. The State of West Bengal (2) ).It is quite true that when a notification is issued under s.2(b)(i)	 specifying  the  period during which  the  area  inquestion  was disturbed some offences though  falling  underthe schedule might have been tried under the Code while someothers which may be pending at the date of the	notificationwould  be tried under the Act.	But does that introduce	 anyvice  in the classification ? If the area was disturbed	 andthe  notification specifying the period of such	 disturbanceis otherwise justified in the sense that the speedy trial ofthe seheduled offences committed during the specified periodcan  be validly directed, then the fact that  some  offenceshad  already been tried before the notification	 cannot,  inour  opinion,  introduce  any  infirmity  in  the  statutoryprovision   itself   It	  must	be   remembered	  that	 theclassification	on which the impugned notification rests  isbetween the scheduled offences committed in an area which isdeclared  to  be  a  disturbed	area  and  similar  offencescommitted elsewhere in the State; and so the fact that	someof the scheduled offences(1) [1950] S.C.R. 869 at p. 877.(2) [1954] S.C. R. 30 at P. 39.656escaped	 the operation of the notification because they	 hadbeen  already tried cannot affect its legality or  validity.Such an adventitious or accidental result cannot sustain theattack	 against  the  classification  which  is   otherwiserational,  reasonable  and valid.  In fact it would  not  beeasy or always possible for the Legislature to prevent	suchan accidental escape of some cases from the provisions of  aspecial	 statute for the reason that they had  already	beendecided.   If  the  statute  had  permitted   discriminationbetween	 cases	under  the scheduled  offences	which  stillremained  to be tried that would have been  another  matter.In  our opinion it would be unreasonable to requisition	 theassistance  of	cases which had been disposed  of  and	havebecome	a matter of history to challenge the  classificationin question.The  second contention is also without substance because  itignores the material difference between the character of theoffences  committed  during  the  specified  period  in	 thedisturbed  area	 and  offences	committed  in	continuouslyundisturbed   areas.   The  offences  committed	  in   areassubsequently  declared to be disturbed led to and  were	 thecause of the extensive disturbance.  In consequence of	suchdisturbance  investigation  into such offences	is  rendereddifficult;  it is not easy in such disturbed  conditions  tocollect	 and marshall evidence because witnesses are apt  tobe  terrorised,	 and  though  the  area	 has  ceased  to  bedisturbed  absence  of	disturbance may	 be  temporary,	 andunless	the  offenders	are brought  to	 book  speedily	 thetemporary  peace may turn out to be the lull before  anotherstorm.	 That  is why even in respect of  areas	 which	haveceased to be disturbed, offences committed when the area wasdisturbed  during the period specified in  the	notificationare  required  to  be tried under the  Act.   Such  offencescannot, in our opinion, be reasonably compared with offencescommitted   under   the	 same  sections	 of  the   Code	  incontinuously undisturbed areas.	 In their essential featuresthe two offences form two distinct and different  categoriesand  the contention that the classification of the  offencesmade in such a case is irrational must,657therefore,  be rejected.  The argument that some  limitationof  time  should  have	been  prescribed  within  which	 thenotification  should  be issued declaring such areas  to  bedisturbed  ignores  the	 fact  that  prescription  of	suchlimitation  may in some cases defeat the purpose of the	 Actitself.	  If the offenders abscond or go underground, as  inthe  present  case appellant 1 did, how can  any  period  oflimitation  be	prescribed beyond which the power  to  issuenotification   cannot  be  exercised  ?	 In   issuing	suchnotification  several  relevant factors	 pertaining  to	 thelocal  situation in the area have to be taken into  account;and so failure to prescribe any limitation cannot  introduceany infirmity in the provision.It  is	conceivable that the notification  issued  under  s.2(b)(i) may be colourable or mala fide but in such a case itis   the   validity  of	 the  notification  which   can	  besuccessfully challenged, not the vires of the statute  underwhich it is issued.  The colourable or mala fide exercise ofthe power in issuing a notification would undoubtedly affectthe validity of the notification itself; but the possibilityof such abuse of power cannot reasonably affect the vires ofthe statute itself.  Mr. Acharya no doubt suggested that theobject	of the impugned notification was to bring  only	 thecase of the appellants under the mischief of the Act but  hefrankly	 conceded that he had not made such a specific	pleain  his petition and that, though it would be  possible	 forhim to urge that a large majority of the scheduled  offencescommitted during the specified period had already been triedunder the Code, it would not be possible for him to  sustainthe  plea on the material available on the record  that	 thenotification has been issued solely with a view to bring thecase of the appellants alone under the mischief of the	Act.That  is why this aspect of the matter does not fall  to  beconsidered in the present appeal.The  next argument is that the proviso to s. 4(1)  is  ultravires.	 We do not think that here is any substance in	thisargument.   What the proviso does is to enable the  tribunalto  try	 any offence other than the scheduled  offence	withwhich the accused may be84658charged	 and  which would be ordinarily	 triable  under	 theprovisions  of	the  Code.  But does  this  amount  to	  aninfringement  of Art. 14 at all ? In our opinion the  answerto this question must be in the negative.  It is significantthat the proviso leaves it to the discretion of the tribunalwhether	 or not any other offence should be tried under	 theAct  along  with the scheduled offence charged	against	 theaccused in a given case.  Besides there can be no doubt thatthe offences' other than the scheduled offences which may beincluded  in a trial under the Act would be,minor or  alliedoffences  the  proof of which would follow  from  the  factsadduced	 in support of the major offences.  That in fact  isthe position even under the provisions of the Code.  If	 thetrial  of  the	major scheduled offence	 under	the  Act  isjustified  and valid the impugned proviso does nothing	morethan  enable the tribunal to decide whether the	 accused  isguilty	of  any minor or allied offence.   In  our  opinion,therefore,  the challenge to the proviso in question  cannotsucceed.It  now	 remains  to consider the  decisions  to  which	 ourattention was invited.	In the case of Anwar Ali Sarkar	 (1)where s. 5(1) of the Bengal Act X of 1950 was impeached	 themajority  decision  was	 that the said	section	 was  whollyinvalid.  The preamble to the Act had merely stated that  itwas  expedient	to provide for the speedy trial	 of  certainoffences,  and s. 5(1) had empowered a special court to	 trysuch offences or classes of offences or cases or classes  ofcages  as  the State Government may by- general	 or  specialorder in writing direct.  According to the majority decisionthe  preamble  to the Act was vague and gave  no  indicationabout  them principles underlying it or the object which  itintended to achieve; and it was also held that s 5(1) vestedan unrestricted discretion in the State Government to directany  cases  or classes of cases to be tried by	the  specialcourt.	 It  was observed that the necessity of	 a  speediertrial mentioned in the preamble was too vague, uncertain andelusive	 a  criterion  to  form a  rational  basis  for	 thediscriminations	 made, and that it was unreasonable to	haveleft to the absolute and unfettered discretion of the(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 284.      659executive government with nothing in the law to guide or  tocontrol its action to decide which cases or classes of casesshould	be  tried under the Act. There	were,  however,	 twodissents.  Patanjali  Sastri,  C.J. held that  s.  5(1)	 waswholly	valid, where, Das, J., as he then was,	agreed	withthe  conclusion of the High Court that s. 5(1) was bad	onlyin  so	far as it empowered the State Government  to  directcases to be tried by a	special court; it may be  added thatthough Bose, J., agreed with the conclusion of the majority,he  was not satisfied that the tests laid down	in  decidingthe validity of the classification could afford	 infalliableguide  because	he thought that the problem  posed  in	suchcases  is not solved by substituting one generalisation	 foranother.   It would thus be seen that the majority  decisionin that case was based on two principal considerations that,having	regard	to the bald statement made in  the  preambleabout  the  need  of speedier trials, it  was  difficult  tosustain	 the  classification made by s. 5(1), and  that	 thediscretion left to the executive was unfettered and for	 itsexercise  no  guidance	was given by  the  statute.   It  isdifficult  to accept the suggestion of Mr. Acharya that	 theimpugned  provisions in the Act with which we are  concernedare comparable to s. 5(1) in that case.The  next decision to which reference must be made is  KathiRaning	Rawat v. The State of Saurashtra (1).  The  majoritydecision in that case upheld the validity of ss. 9, 10 and 11  of the Saurashtra State Public Safety  (Third  Amendment)Ordinance,  1949  (66 of 1949) and the	notification  issuedunder  it.  Patanjali Sastri, C.J., and three other  learnedjudges of this Court took the view that the preamble to	 theAct gave a clear indication about the policy underlying	 theAct  and the object which it intended to achieve,  that	 theclassification	on which the impugned provisions were  basedwas  a rational classification, and that the differentia  onwhich the classification was made had a rational nexus	withthe  object and policy of the Act.  Mahajan,  ChandrasekharaAyyar and Bose, JJ., however, dissented.  According to	themthe notification(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 435.660and  the  impugned provisions had violated Art.	 14.  It  issignificant that in up holding the validity of the  impugnedprovisions and the notifications the tests applied were	 thesame as laid down in Anwar Ali Sarkar's case (1).The third decision pronounced by this Court in the same year-is Lachmandas Kewalram Ahuja & Anr. v. The State of  Bombay(2).   Section 12 of the Bombay Public Safety Measures	Act,1947, was struck down by the majority decision in that	caseas it contravened Art. 14 and was void under Art. 13 on	 theprinciples  laid down in the two earlier decisions to  whichwe  have just referred.	 Patanjali Sastri, C. J.,  struck  anote  of  dissent.   He adhered to the	view  which  he	 hadexpressed  in Anwar Ali Sarkar's case (1) and held that	 theimpugned  provision was valid.	The decision in the case  ofAhuja  (2)  proceeded on the basis that	 the  discriminationwhich  may  have been permissible before January  26,  1950,could  not  be	sustained after the  said  date	 because  itviolated Art. 14 of the Constitution.  Having regard to	 theobjects which the act intended to achieve and the principlesunderlying  it,	 it  was  held	that  the  said	 object	 andprinciples  applied  equally to both  categories  of  cases,those  which  were referred to the special judge  and  thosewhich  were not so referred; and so the discrimination	madebetween	 the  two  categories of cases which  could  not  berationally put under two different classes was violative  ofArt.  14.  Thus the application of the same tests this	timeresulted  in  striking down the impugned provision  and	 thenotification.In  1953 a similar problem was posed before this  Court	 forits  decision.	This time it was s. 4(1) of the West  BengalCriminal Law Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 1949, which waschallenged  in Kedar Nath Bajoria's case (3 ). This Act	 hadbeen  passed  to  provide  'for the  more  speedy  and	moreeffective   punishment	of  certain  offences  because	 theLegislature thought that it was expedient to provide for themore  speedy trial and more effective punishment of  certainoffences which were set out in the schedule annexed(1) [1952] S.C.R. 284.(2) [1952] S.C.R. 710.(3)  [1954] S.C.R. 30.661to   the  Act.	Section	 4(1)  authorised   the	  ProvincialGovernment  to allot cases for trial to a special  judge  bynotification  as  well as transfer cases  from	one  specialjudge	to  another  or	 to  withdraw  any  case  from	 thejurisdiction of the special judge or make such modificationsin the description of a case as may be considered necessary.Pronouncing  the  majority judgment in that  case  PatanjaliSastri, C. J., elaborately considered the earlier  decisionsof this Court to which we have already referred, applied thetests  laid down therein, and held that s. 4 of the Act	 wasvalid  and that the special court had jurisdiction  to	try-and  convict  the, appellants. Bose, J.,  however,  did	 notagree  and  recorded  his dissent with	deepest	 regret.  Indealing with the merits of the controversyraised   beforethe Court Patanjali Sastri, C. J., referredto	the   factthat according to the dissenting view " thedecision of themajority  in the case of Kathi Baning Rawat v. The State  ofSaurashtra  (1) marked a retreat from the position taken  upby the majority in the earlier case of Anwar Ali Sarkar	 He,however,  added that the Saurashtra case (1) would  seem  tolay  down  the principle that if  the  impugned	 legislationindicates the policy which inspired it and the object  whichit seeks to attain, the mere fact that the legislation	doesnot itself make a complete and precise classification of thepersons	 or things to which it is to be applied, but  leavesthe  selective	application  of the law to be  made  by	 theexecutive   authority  in  accordance  with   the   standardindicated  or the underlying policy and object disclosed  isnot a sufficient ground for condemning it as arbitrary	and,therefore, obnoxious to Art. 14."There  is  is one more decision to which  reference  may  bemade.  In Gopi Chand v. Delhi Administration (3) this  Courthas  upheld  the  validity of s. 36(1) of  the	East  PunjabPublic Safety Act 5 of 1949.  The provisions of this sectionauthorised  the	 State Government to  apply  the  prescribedsummons procedure for the trial of the specified offences indangerously(1) [1952] S.C.R. 435.	      (2) [1952] S.C.R. 284.(3)  A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 609.662disturbed  areas.   The	 notification issued  by  the  StateGovernment under authority conferred on it by the   impugnedAct  was challenged as offending Art. 14 but this  challengewas repelled and the statutory	   provision	 and	 thenotification were held to be valid.The  result  of	 these	decisions appears  to  be  this.  Inconsidering  the  validity of the impugned  statute  on	 theground that it violates Art. 14 it would first be  necessaryto  ascertain  the  policy underlying the  statute  and	 theobject	intended to be achieved by it. In this	process	 thepreamble to the Act and its material provisions can and mustbe  considered.	 Having thus ascertained the policy and	 theobject	of the Act the court should apply the dual  test  inexamining  its validity: Is the classification rational	 andbased  on  intelligible differentia; and has  the  basis  ofdifferentiation	 any rational nexus with its  avowed  policyand  object ? If both these tests are satisfied the  statutemust  be  held	to  be	valid.	and  in	 such  a  case	 theconsideration  as to whether the same result could not	havebeen better achieved by adopting a different  classificationwould  be foreign to the scope of the judicial enquiry.	  Ifeither of the two tests is not satisfied the statute must bestruck down as violative of Art. 14.  Applying this test  itseems  to  us that the impugned provisions contained  in  s.2(b) and the proviso to s. 4(1) cannot be said to contraveneArt.  14.  As we have indicated earlier, if in	issuing	 thenotification authorised by s. 2(b) the State Government actsmala  fide or exercises its power in a colourable  way	thatcan always be effectively challenged; but, in the absence ofany  such plea and without adequate material in that  behalfthis aspect of the matter does not fall to be considered  inthe present appeal.The  result  is	 the  order passed  by	the  High  Court  isconfirmed and the appeal dismissed.Before	we part with this appeal, however, we would like  toadd  that,  since  the offences are  alleged  to  have	beencommitted more than ten years ago, it is desirable that	 thecase against the appellants should now be tried and disposedof as expeditiously as possible.663SARKAR.	 J. -The question that arises in this appeal whethera  certain provision of the Tribunal  Criminal	JurisdictionAct, 1952, (W. B. Act XIV of 1952) is void as it takes	awaythe  right conferred by art. 14 of the Constitution.  In  myview, it is.The Act came into force on July 30, 1952. The  object of theAct is set out in the preamble which so	     far    as	  isrelevant  in this case reads, " Whereas it is  expedient  inthe interests of the security of the State, the	 maintenanceof  public peace and tranquillity to provide for the  speedytrial  of  the	offences specified in the  Schedule;  It  ishereby enacted...."The  provisions	 of the Act which have to be  considered  inthis case are set out below.S.   2.	 Definitions.-In this Act unless there	is  anythingrepugnant in the subject or context-(a).......................................(b)  "	disturbed  area	 " means an area  in  which  in	 theopinion of the State Government-(i)  there was or(ii) there isany   extensive	  disturbance  of  the	public	 peace	 andtranquillity  and  in  respect	of  which  area	 the   StateGovernment has issued a notification declaring such area  tobe a disturbed area.  In cases falling under clause (i)	 thenotification shall have effect during such period as may  bespecified  therein, and in cases falling under	clause	(ii)the notification shall have effect from such date as may  bespecified  in  the notification until  the  notification  isrevoked;(c)....................................(d)  "	Scheduled offence " means any offence  specified  inthe Schedule.(e)  " Tribunal " means a Tribunal of Criminal	Jurisdictionconstituted under sub-section (1) of section 3.S. 4.(i)  Scheduled	offences shall be triable by  the  Tribunalsonly;664SCHEDULE1........................................2.  An	offence punishable under section 302,  section	304,section 307, section 326, section 363, section 364,  section365,  section  366, section 376, section 395,  section	396,section	 397,  or section 436 of the Indian Penal  Code,  ifcommitted in a disturbed area.3..................................................4.   Any  conspiracy to commit or any attempt to  commit  orany abetment of any of the offences specified in items 1  to3.The  Act provides by some of the sections which need not  beset  out, a special procedure for trial under it.  Thus	 thetrial  is  to  be without a jury even in  case,%  which	 aretriable	 by  a jury.  Again, the Tribunal is to	 follow	 theprocedure  laid	 down for the trial of warrant	cases  by  aMagistrate,.  instituted otherwise than on a  police  reportand  the  procedure  for committal  for	 trial	is  omitted.Further,  a Judge presiding over a Tribunal may act  on	 theevidence   recorded  by	 his  predecessor.   The   procedureprovided  by the Act is thus clearly less beneficent  to  anaccused than the normal procedure under the Code of CriminalProcedure,  which would have to be adopted for his trial  ifthe  Act had not been passed.  The learned  Advocate-Generalof  West Bengal, appearing for the respondent, the State  ofWest  Bengal,  did not contend to the  contrary.   The	Act,therefore,   provides	a   disadvantageous   and   so,	   adiscriminatory procedure for the persons who come under	 itsscope.We  turn  now to the facts of this case.  On  September	 12,1952,  the Government of West Bengal issued  a	notificationunder s. 2(b) of the Act declaring the whole area within thejurisdiction  of Kakdwip and Sagar police-stations to  be  adisturbed  area	 and specified the period  from	 January  1,1948,  to March 31, 1950, to be the period during which	 thenotification was to have effect.The   Special  Public  Prosecutor  Kakdwip  cases,  of	 theGovernment  of	West Bengal filed a  complaint	against	 theappellants  and	 several other persons as a  result  of	 theproceedings taken by that Government in case665No.  1	of Judicial Department Notification No.	 5916  datedOctober 24, 1952.  The date of the complaint does not appearfrom  the record.  The case against the appellants  and	 the-other	persons	 appears  to  be  that,	 between  the  datesmentioned  in the Notification Of September 12,	 1952,	theywere  among  the leaders of the violent form of	 a  movementcalled	the Tebhaga movement, in the Kakdwip area and  they,with the others, led the movement to kill the landlords	 andjotdars and burn down their houses, so that the	 bhagchasis,that  is,  the cultivators who cultivated the lands  of	 thelandlords and jotdars on the basis of getting a share of thecrop produced, might obtain full control over the lands theycultivated and the object of the movement included  offeringresistance to and killing the police if they intervened, andburning	 down  school  houses where  the  police  frequentlycamped.On  the aforesaid complaint, on March 3,  1958,	 proceedingswere  started against the appellants under the	Act.   Afterexamining 99 witnesses the learned Judge presiding over	 theTribunal  hearing the case, framed a charge against them  onMay 16, 1958, under s. 120 B, read with ss. 302 and 436,  ofthe Indian Penal Code.	These offences are included in itemsNos. 2 and 4 of the Schedule.On  May	 26, 1958, the appellants moved the  High  Court  atCalcutta  under art. 227 of the Constitution and s.  439  ofthe  Code  of Criminal Procedure for an order  quashing	 theproceedings  against them on certain grounds.  I propose  todeal  in this judgment with one of these grounds  only.	  Itwas said that s 2(b) of the Act in so far as it allowed	 theGovernment  to declare an area in which " there was  "	dis-turbance  in the past, to be a disturbed area, offends	art.14.  of	 the Constitution as it then  discriminates  betweenpersons	 who had committed the same -offences in  that	areawithin	the  specified	period but  whose  trials  had	beenconcluded  before  the	notification  and  others  similarlysituated but whose trials had not been so concluded.  It wassaid  that the former class of persons had the advantage  ofthe normal procedure while85666the  latter,  in whom the appellants are included,  were  totried by a less advantageous procedure.The application of the appellants was heard by a  bench	  ofthe  High Court consisting of Mitter and  Bhattacharya,	 JJ.These  learned Judges came to entertain different  views  onthe  question.	 Mitter, J., thought that the Act  had	beengiven	a   retrospective  operation   by   permitting	 thedeclaration of an area as a disturbed area for a past periodbut  that the Act dealt only with procedure  and  proceduralalterations  were always ,retrospective.  Bhattacharya,	 J.,seems  to  have	 been  of  the	view  that  a  retrospectiveoperation even of a procedural statute is not permissible ifsuch  operation results in the statute offending art.  14  ;that  the  principle  of the retrospective  operation  of  aprocedural   statute  is  not  available  to   by-pass	 theconstitutional safeguard guaranteed by art. 14.In  view  of  this difference of  opinion,  the	 matter	 wasreferred to a third learned Judge of the Court, namely, Sen,J.  He was of the view that the retrospective  operation  ofthe Act, by which he meant the application of the  procedurelaid  down in it to cases in respect of	 offences  committedbefore	the Act the trial of which had not  been  concluded,did not offend art. 14; that there was no fundamental  rightto  a particular procedure for trial and alterations in	 theprocedural law were always retrospective unless the contrarywas  indicated.	  He further observed, " The change  in	 theprocedure  made by a statute in respect of offences  fallingwithin	a prescribed reasonable classification, affects	 allpending	 cases	of that class; and so long  as	all  pendingcases	within	the  class  are	 tried	under  the   specialprocedure,  there is no discrimination." In the result,	 theappellant's application was refused.  They have now appealedto this Court.It  seems  to me that the learned Judges of the	 High  Courtwere unduly oppressed by considerations of the retrospectiveoperation  of the Act.	The question is not whether the	 Actis prospective or retrospective in its operation.  Nor is itthe  question  whether	the Act	 deals	with  procedures  orsubstantive  rights.  The only question is whether  the	 Actoperates in respect only of667a class of persons and if so, whether the classification  isjustifiable.  Whether a law offends art. 14, does not dependupon  whether it is prospective or retrospective.  There  isnothing	 in  art.  14  to  indicate  that  a  law  operatingretrospectively	 cannot offend it.  It is possible both	 forprospective  and  retrospective statutes to  contravene	 theprovisions  of that article.  It is not necessary  thereforeto consider whether the Act is prospective or  retrospectiveor whether it concerns procedure or substantive rights.The  general rule is that a law must apply to  all  persons.But it is permissible within certain well recognised limits,to validly legislate for a class of persons.  The test for avalid classification is well known.  It may be read from thejudgment  in  the recent case of Sri Ram Krishna  Dalmia  v.Shri Justice S.	    R.	Tendolkar 1. Das, C.J., said  at  p.298:" In determining the validity or otherwise of such a statutethe  court has to examine whether such classification is  orcan  be reasonably regarded as based upon  some	 differentiawhich distinguishes such persons or things grouped together,from   those  left  out	 of  the  group	 and  whether	suchdifferentia  has a reasonable relation to the object  soughtto be achieved by the statute Where the court finds that theclassification	satisfies the tests, the court	will  upholdthe validity of the law."Again at p. 299 he observed:"A statute may not make any classification of the persons orthings	for the purpose of applying its provisions  but	 mayleave  it to the discretion of the Government to select	 andclassify  persons  or things to whom its provisions  are  toapply.......................................................the  court will strike down the statute if it does  not	 laydown any principle or policy for guiding the exercise of thediscretion by the Government in the matter of  selection  orclassification ...........................................................In  such a case the court will strike down both the law	 aswell as the executive action taken under such law."(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 279.668The statute before us has made a classification in regard tooffences.   It	applies	 only to those	offences  which	 arementioned  in  the  Schedule.	I  will	 assume	 that	thisclassification satisfies the test and is good.	  I wish  toobserve here that in this case I am considering the validityof  the	 statute only in so far as it is concerned  with  anoffence	 committed  in a disturbed area.   Such	 an  offencecomes  under  items  2 and 4 of the  Schedule  which  alone,therefore,  I have set out.  Now, the Act leaves it  to	 theGovernment to decide which is a disturbed area and to make aclassification	on the basis of areas.	I will	also  assumethat the Act is not invalid in so far as it leaves it to theGovernment to make this classification; that it lays down  aprinciple or policy, namely, extensive disturbance of publicpeace and tranquillity for guiding the Government in  makingthis classification.Now,  s. 2(b) empowers the Government to declare an area  tobe   a	disturbed  area	 where	"  there  was  "   extensivedisturbance  of	 the public peace and  tranquillity  in	 thepast.	The  Government	 has  however  to  mention  in	 thenotification  making such a declaration, the  period  duringwhich it shall have effect; in other words, the notificationhas to specify the period in which in the area declared a  "disturbed  area	 ",  disturbance of  the  public  peace	 andtranquillity  had  taken place.	 The area,so  declared	a  "disturbed  area	 " becomes a " disturbed area "	 within	 themeaning	 of  the Act for that period only.  In such  a	caseonly such of the offences mentioned in items Nos. 2 and 4 ofthe Schedule as were committed in the specified area  duringthe specified period come under the scope of the Act.	Thisis  the kind of declaration of a " disturbed area " that  wehave in this case.The effect of this kind of declaration is that it makes	 theAct applicable only to persons who have committed any of thespecified  offences  in	 the  area  and	 during	 the  periodindicated.  As will presently be seen, it does not apply  toall  such persons.  This being a case, where there had	beendisturbances  in the area in the past, the period  mentionedin  the declaration must be a period in the past.   That  iswhat  happened	in the present case.   The  declaration	 wasmade on669September  12,	1952,  and the	period	specified  was	fromJanuary 1, 1948, to March 31, 1950.  It is possible in	sucha  case	 that  many of the persons  who	 had  committed	 theoffences   within   the	 past  period	specified   in	 thedeclaration, might have already been tried and their  trialsconcluded  before the declaration was made.  They  would  insuch  circumstances have been tried according to the  normalprocedure  provided by the Code of Criminal  Procedure.	  Tothem  the  Act	does not apply.	  Other	 persons,  like	 theappellants  who	 committed  the same offences  in  the	sameperiod	and in the same area but whose trials had  not	beenconcluded before the declaration was made, have to be  triedunder the disadvantageous procedure prescribed by the Act.The effect of the Act therefore is to group into one  class,persons	 committing the specified offences in the  specifiedarea  and in the specified period whose trials had not	beenconcluded before the making of the declaration.	 It is	onlyto them that the Act applies.  This is where the  difficultyarises.	  There	 does  not  seem  to  be  any	intelligibledifferentia by which such persons can be differentiated fromothers who committed the same offences in the same area	 andduring	the same period but whose trials had been  concludedbefore	the  making of the declaration.	 The object  of	 theAct,  as earlier stated, is to secure speedy trials  in	 theinterests  of the security of the State and the	 maintenanceof  the	 public	 peace	and  tranquillity  in  view  of	 theextensive  disturbance of the public peace and	tranquillityin an area.  It would be necessary to carry out this  objectthat both the classes of persons, namely, those whose trialshad  been concluded as also those whose trials had not	beenconcluded, should be treated according to the same law.	 Theonly distinction between the two classes is that in one casethe  trials had been concluded while in the other, they	 hadnot  been.   Now  that is not a differentia, if	 it  may  becalled	so, which has any reasonable relation to the  objectof  the Act. lndeed, in order to secure that object,  it  isnecessary  to place both the classes of persons in the	samesituation.  By permitting a declaration classifying offencescommitted in the past, the Act makes a classification  whichcannot stand the670well-known test which I have read from Ram Krishna  Dalmia'scase  (1).It  cannot  be said that the object of the Act is   only  toprovide speedy trial and that therefore as there is of	  noquestion  of speedy trial in the cases where the trial	had-already been concluded there is an intelligible	 differentiabetween such cases and those where the	     trial  had	 notbeen  concluded.  It is quite plain that the object  of	 theAct  is not simply to provide a speedy trial.	Indeed,	 alloffences  require  speedy trial.  The object of the  Act  isexpressly  to  provide	speedy	trial  of  certain  offencescommitted in a specified area and during a specified  periodbecause	 " it is expedient in the interests of the  securityof   the  State,  the  maintenance  of	public	 peace	 andtranquillity  "	 to do so.  The classification by  areas  isbased  on  disturbance	in  an area  and  the  necessily  ofrestoring peace there.	Such being the object, a distinctionmade  between the cases were the trials had  been  concludedand  the cases where the trials had not been  concluded,  isnot  a distinction which has any rational relation  to	thatobject.The  learned Advocate-General for the State of	West  Bengalcontended that this case is covered by the decision of	thiscourt in Gopi Chand v. Delhi Administration (2).  There,  nosuch  difficulty  as  arises in this case,  had	 arisen.   Itherefore do not think that that case is of any assistance.In  my view, s. 2(b) of the Act in so far as it	 permits  anarea which was a disturbed area in the past to be declared adisturbed area for the purposes of the Act, offends art.  14of  the Constitution and is therefore  unconstitutional	 andvoid.	The declaration in the present case was	 made  underthat  portion of s. 2(b) and it cannot be  sustained.	Thatportion	 of  the Act and the Notification of  September	 12,1952, must therefore be held to be void.In the result I would allow the appeal.		       ORDER OF COURTIn view of the opinion of the majority, the order passed  bythe High Court is confirmed and the appeal is dismissed.(1) [1959] S.C.R. 279.		(2) A.I.R. 1959 S.C. P. 609.671