PETITIONER:NATHMAL TOLARAM	Vs.RESPONDENT:SUPERINTENDENT OF TAXES, DHUBRI	 AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:18/10/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASAYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  331		  1961 SCR  (2)	 40ACT:Sales  Tax--Reassessment--jurisdiction	of  the	 Sales	 TaxOfficer--High	Court's	  power	  in	References--Advisoryjurisdiction--Period  of  limitation  for  proceedings	 forreassessment--Assam Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Assam 17 of  1947),SS. 2(12),16(2), 19, 19A, 32(8),34.HEADNOTE:The  appellants who were dealers registered under the  AssamSales  Tax Act, 1947, submitted a return of  their  turnoverfor the account period April 1, 1948 to September 30,  1948,which included sales in Assam of all goods other than  jute.The Superintendent of Taxes, however, summarily assessed theappellants under sub-s. 4 of S. 17 of the Act by order datedSeptember  30, 1950, to pay tax on sales of jute  despatchedby them to Calcutta during the account period.	The order ofassessment  was confirmed by the Commissioner of Taxes.	  Onan  application by the appellants the Commissioner  referredcertain	 questions of law arising out of the  assessment  tothe  High  Court, which then gave its opinion  that  as	 theconsignments  in question were not sales within the  meaningof sub-s. 12 of s. 2 of the Act, they were not taxable,	 andthat as to whether the sales could thereafter be assessed ifthey fell within the purview of the Explanation to sub-s. 12of S. 2, it expressed no opinion.  On receipt of the opinionthe  Commissioner  directed the Superintendent of  Taxes  todispose of the case in accordance with the judgment of.	 theHigh Court.  The Superintendent of Taxes then set aside	 theorder  of assessment dated September 30, 1950, and issued  anotice to the appellants on January 30, 1953, directing themto produce the necessary evidence in order in	  the	casecame within the purview of the Explanation to sub-s.12 of S.2 of the Act.  The appellant claimed that the Superintendenthad  no jurisdiction to commence any further proceeding	 forassessment  as	the notice issued to him  was  beyond  threeyears  from the end of the assessment period as provided  bys. 19 of the Act.Held,  that  the  High	Court  in  answering  the  questionsreferred  to it was exercising an advisory jurisdiction	 andcould  not and did not give any direction to the  sales	 taxauthorities  to	 proceed  to assess or	not  to	 assess	 theappellants  to sales tax ; it merely gave its  opinion	thatthe transactions were not sales within the meaning of S.  2,sub-s. 12 of the Act and were accordingly not taxable.41Held,  further, that the Commissioner not having issued	 anynotice	under s. 19A of the Act or exercised his  revisionalauthority  under s. 31, but having merely directed the	caseto  be	disposed of in accordance with the judgment  of	 theHigh Court, the Superintendent of Taxes had no	jurisdictionto  initiate fresh proceedings for reassessment under s.  19after the expiry of three years from the assessment period.Commissioner  of Income Tax, Bombay Presidency and Aden	 andothers	v. Bombay Trust Corporation Ltd., (1936) L.R. 63  1.A. 408, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 196 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril 27, 1953, of the Assam High Court in Civil Rule No. 66of 1953.Sukumar Mitter and Sukumar Ghose, for the appel. lant.Veda Vyasa and Naunit Lal, for the respondents.1960.  October 18.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySHAH  J.-The  appellants are dealers  registered  under	 theAssam Sales Tax Act XVII of 1947-hereinafter referred to  asthe Act.  For the account period April 1, 1948 to  September30,  1948,  the	 appellants  submitted	a  return  of  theirturnover  which included sales in Assam of all	goods  otherthan  jute.  The Superintendent of Taxes, Dhubri,  summarilyassessed  the appellants under sub-s. 4 of s. 17 of the	 Actto  pay tax on sales of jute despatched by them to  Calcuttaduring	the  account period.  Appeals against the  order  ofassessment to the Assistant Commissioner of Taxes and to theCommissioner  of  Taxes, Assam,	 proved	 unsuccessful.	 Theappellants  then  applied to the Commissioner  of  Taxes  torefer certain questions arising out of the assessment to theHigh   Court  in  Assam	 under	S.  34	of  the	 Act.	 TheCommissioner referred the following questions and another tothe High Court of Judicature in Assam:(1)  Whether,	in   view  of  the   aforesaid	 facts	 andcircumstances the turnover from 20,515 maunds of 642jute mentioned under item (i) is taxable under the Act ?(2)  Whether,	in   view  of  the   aforesaid	 facts	 andcircumstances  the  turnover  from  5,500  maunds  of	jutementioned under item (ii) is taxable under the Act ?(3)	Whether,  in  view  of	the  aforesaid	 facts	 andcircumstances,	the  turnover  from 25,209  maunds  of	jutementioned under item (iii) is taxable under the Act ?In  respect of each of the three questions 1 to 3, the	HighCourt recorded the following answer:s.   " Not being a sale within the meaning of sub12 of s.  2of the Act, the consignments are riot taxable	  ".The High Court, however observed:" As to whether these consignments can hereafter be assessedif they fall within the purview of the Explanation to sub-s.12 of s. 2, we express no opinion ".As  required  by s. 32(8) of the Act,  the  Commissioner  ofTaxes  by  his	order dated August  1,	1952,  directed	 theSuperintendent of Taxes to dispose of the case in accordancewith the judgment of the High Court.  The Superintendent  ofTaxes  thereafter issued on January 30, 1953, the  followingnotice to the appellants:"  In  view of the Hon'ble High Court's order  in  Sales-taxReference  No.	3 of 1951, the assessment order	 dated	30thSeptember, 1950, for the return period 30th September, 1948,has been set aside and you are directed to produce necessaryevidence,     con.    tract    papers,	  account     books,etc..................  in order to see whether the  contractof sale involved in this case come within the purview of theExplanation to sub.s. 12 of s. 2 of the Act ".By their letter dated March 23, 1953, the appellants  calledupon the Commissioner of Taxes to direct the  Superintendentof  Taxes not to proceed with the notice.  The	Commissionerhaving	 failed	 to  direct  as	 requested,  the   appellantpetitioned  the	 High Court in Assam under Art. 226  of	 theConstitution for a writ43prohibiting the Superintendent of Taxes from re-opening	 andproceeding  with the assessment of the appellants under	 theAssam Sales Tax Act and for a writ quashing the order  datedAugust 1, 1952, passed by the Commissioner.  The High  Courtsummarily dismissed the petition.  Against the order  passedby  the High Court, this appeal is filed with special  leaveunder Art. 136 of the Constitution.The High Court, in answering the questions submitted to	 it,was  exercising an advisory jurisdiction and could  not	 anddid  not give any direction to the sales tax authorities  toproceed	 to assess or not to assess the appellants to  salestax  : it merely recorded its opinion that the	transactionsreferred  to  in  the questions were not  sales	 within	 themeaning of s. 2, sub-s. 12, of the Act and were	 accordinglynot taxable.  Pursuant to the opinion of the High Court, theCommissioner directed the Superintendent of Taxes to disposeof  the case " in accordance with" the judgment of the	HighCourt;	but the Superintendent of Taxes thought that he	 wasentitled to re-open the assessment proceedings and to assessthe appellants in the light of the Explanation to s. 2, sub-s.  12.	  In so doing, the Superintendent of Taxes,  in	 ourjudgment,  acted without authority. The	 Superintendent	 hadmade  the assessment, and that assessment was  confirmed  inappeal	by  the Assistant Commissioner.	  On  the  questionsarising	 out of that assessment, the High Court	 had  opinedthat the transactions sought to be assessed were not  liableto  tax.  The Superintendent of Taxes, on this	opinion	 wasright in vacating the order of assessment.  But any  furtherproceeding  for	 assessment which he sought to	commence  byissuing	 a  notice  requiring  the  appellants'	 to  produceevidence,  contract  papers, account books, etc.  so  as  toenable	him  to	 determine  whether  the  transactions	weretaxable under the Explanation to sub-s. 12 of s. 2 had to besupported   by	 some	authority  under   the	 Act.	 TheSuperintendent of   Taxes has not referred to the  authorityin exercise of which he issued this notice.  It is true thattinder s. 19  of  the  Act,  the "  taxation  Officer  "  ifsatisfied  upon information coming into his possession	thatany44dealer	has been liable to pay tax under the Act in  respectof  any period and has failed to apply for registration	 andto  make the return required of him, may at any time  withinthree years of the end of the aforesaid period serve on	 thedealer	a notice containing all or any of  the	requirementswhich  may be included in a notice under sub-s. 2 of  s.  16and  may  proceed to assess the dealer in  respect  of	suchperiod.	  But admittedly, the appellants were registered  asdealers	 and  had  submitted their  returns:  the  power  toreassess could not therefore be exercised by virtue of s. 19of the Act.  Under s. 19-A, the Commissioner has also power,if  satisfied upon information coming into  his	 possession,that  any  turnover  in	 respect  of  sales  of	 any   goodschargeable  to tax has escaped assessment during the  returnperiod,	 to  serve  at any time within three  years  of	 theaforesaid  period,  on the dealer liable to pay the  tax  inrespect	 of such turnover a notice containing all or any  ofthe  requirements  which may be included in a  notice  undersub-s. 2 of s. 16 and may proceed to assess or reassess	 thedealer in respect of such period.  But the Commissioner	 badnot  issued  any  such notice under s.	19A.   Nor  had	 theCommissioner  in exercise of his revisional authority  unders. 31 of the Act set aside the original order of assessment.The Commissioner merely directed under s. 32, sub-s. 8, thatthe  case be disposed of in accordance with the judgment  ofthe  High  Court,  and	acting	under  that  direction,	 theSuperintendent	 of  Taxes  had	 no  power  to	reopen	 theassessment  and	 to  call upon	the  appellants	 to  producedocumentary  evidence  with a view to  commence	 an  enquirywhether	 the  sales involved in the case fell "	 within	 thepurview	 of  the  Explanation to s. 2 sub-s. 12	 ".  In	 anyevent,	the account period as has already been observed	 wasApril  1, 1948 to September 30, 1948, and three	 years	fromthe end of that period, expired before the date on which thenotice was issued.  Fresh proceedings for reassessment couldnot be initiated by the Superintendent of Taxes under s.  19after  the expiry of three years from the assessment  periodassuming that this could be regarded as a case of failure toapply for45registration   and  to	make  a	 return	 required   of	 theappellants.In  support  of his contention that  the  Superintendent  ofTaxes had authority to proceed to reassess the appellants inthe  light of the observations made in the judgment  of	 theHigh Court, counsel for the appellants invited our attentionto  the	 judgment of the Privy Council	in  Commissioner  ofIncome Tax, Bombay Presidency and Aden and others v.  BombayTrust Corporation Ltd. (1).  In that case, a foreign companywas assessed by the Income Tax authorities in the name of  aresident  company  for	profits and gains  received  by	 thelatter	as  its agent under ss. 42(1) and 43 of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922.	 In a reference under s. 66  of	 theIncome-tax  Act,  the High Court at Bombay opined  that	 theassessment  was	 illegal.  The Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,thereafter sent back the case with a direction to set  asidethe  assessment and to make a fresh assessment after  makingsuch  further enquiry as the Income-tax Officer might  thinkfit. Acting upon that order, the Income-tax Officer requir-ed  the resident company as agent of the foreign company  toproduce	 or  cause to be produced books of account  for	 theyear  of assessment and also to produce such other  evidenceon which it might seek to rely in respect of its return, andthe  resident company having failed to produce the books  ofthe  foreign  company, he proceeded to	make  an  assessmentunder s. 23(4) of the Income-tax Act, 1922.  By its petitionunder  s.  45 of the Specific Relief Act filed in  the	HighCourt  at Bombay, the resident company prayed for  an  orderfor  refund  of the taxes already Paid	under  the  originalassessment,  and  for  an  order  for  disposal	 of  certainproceedings  initiated	by  it	before	the  Assistant	Com-missioner  and the Income-tax Officer.	The High Court	madean order directing refund of tax paid, and further directingcancellation  of assessment.  In an appeal preferred by	 theCommissioner  of  Income-tax against the order of  the	HighCourt,	it  was	 observed  by the  Privy  Council  that	 theCommissioner  was  not obliged	to  discontinue	 proceedingsagainst the resident46company	 as agent of the foreign company in respect  of	 theyear  of assessment, and it was within the  jurisdiction  ofthe  Commissioner  under s. 33(2) of the Income-tax  Act  todirect	further enquiry if he thought such an enquiry to  bereasonable and to be profitable in the public interest.The   principle	 of  this  case	 has  in  our  judgment	  noapplication  to the present case.  The High Court at  Bombayin  its	 advisory jurisdiction had declared  the  assessmentalready made to be illegal.  But the Commissioner was  unders.   33	  of  the  Indian  Income-tax  Act   invested	withjurisdiction to direct further enquiry, and he purported  toexercise that jurisdiction.  The Privy Council rejected	 thechallenge  to  the exercise of that  jurisdiction.   In	 thepresent	  case,	  no  proceedings  were	  started   by	 theCommissioner   of  Taxes  in  exercise	of  his	  revisionalauthority.   The  Commissioner	of Taxes  had  directed	 theSuperintendent	of  Taxes  merely to  dispose  of  the	caseaccording  to  the  judgment  of the  High  Court,  and	 theSuperintendent	had  to	 carry out that order.	 If  he	 wascompetent-and  on  that question, we express  no  opinion-hecould,	if the conditions precedent to the exercise  of	 hisjurisdiction  existed, proceed to reassess  the	 appellants.But  the  proceedings for reassessment were  clearly  barredbecause the period prescribed for reassessment had  expired.The Superintendent therefore had no power to issue a  noticecalling	 upon the appellants to produce evidence  to  enablehim  to start an enquiry which was barred by the  expiry  ofthe  period  of limitation prescribed by the  Act.   In	 theBombay	Trust,	Corporation  case  (supra),  the  Income-taxOfficer	  acted	 in  pursuance	of  the	 direction  of	 theCommissioner  lawfully	given  in  exercise  of	  revisionalauthority and reopened the assessment.	In the present case,no  such direction has been given by an authority  competentin  that  behalf:  and the Superintendent had  no  power  toreassess  the income under s. 19 assuming that	the  sectionapplied	 to a case where the assessee though registered	 hadfailed to include his sales in a particular commodity in histurnover,  because  the period of limitation  prescribed  inthat behalf had expired.47The appeal must therefore be allowed and the order passed bythe High Court set aside.  In the circumstances of the case,no  useful purpose will be served' by remanding the case  tothe High Court.	 We accordingly direct that a writ  quashingthe  proceedings commenced by the Superintendent  of  Taxes,Dhubri,	 by  his notice dated January 30, 1953,	 be  issued.The  appellants	 will  be entitled to  their  costs  of	 theappeal.Appeal allowed.