PETITIONER:KISHAN CHAND ARORA	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF POLICE, CALCUTTADATE OF JUDGMENT:09/12/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1961 AIR  705		  1961 SCR  (3) 135 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1967 SC 829	 (6) R	    1984 SC1030	 (37)ACT:Eating	House-Power  to grant license-Discretion  vested  inPolice	Commissioner -- Constitutionality  Calcutta  PoliceAct,  1866 (IV of 1866), s. 39-Constitution of India,  Arts.19(1)(g), 19(6).HEADNOTE:By s. 39 of the Calcutta Police Act, 1866, "The Commissionerof  Police, may, at his discretion from time to time,  grantlicenses  to the keepers of such houses or places of  publicresort	and entertainment as aforesaid for which no  licenceas  is specified in the Bengal Excise Act, 1909 is  requiredupon such conditions,(1)  (1934) L.R. 61 I.A. 398.136to  be	inserted  in every such license,  as  he,  with	 thesanction  of  the said State Government from  time  to	timeshall order, for securing the good behaviour of the  keepersof   the  said	houses	or  places  of	public	 resort	  orentertainment,	 and  the  prevention  of  drunkenness	 anddisorder  among the persons frequenting or using  the  same;and   the  said	 licenses  may	be  granted  by	  the	saidCommissioner, for any time not exceeding one year".The  petitioner, whose application for a license in  respectof  an	eating	house was refused  by  the  Commissioner  ofPolice,	  Calcutta,  under  the	 section,   challenged	 itsconstitutional	validity  on the ground	 that  it  conferredarbitrary  and unguided powers on the Commissioner to  grantor  refuse a license without hearing the applicant and	was,therefore,  an unreasonable restriction on  his	 fundamentalright  to carry on his trade guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g)  ofthe Constitution.Held, (per Kapur, Gajendragadkar and Wanchoo, JJ.), that  inorder  to decide whether a provision in	 a  pre-Constitutionstatute,  like the one in question, satisfies. the  test  ofconstitutionality laid down by Art. 19(i)(g) read with	Art.19(6)  of the Constitution, the impugned section has  to  beread  as  a  whole in a fair and reasonable  manner  and  itshould	 not   be   declared   void   simply   because	 theconsiderations	 relevant   to	those	Articles   are	 notimmediately  apparent from its language.  It is not  correctto say that the discretion conferred on the Commissioner  bythe  first  part  of the section is absolute  and  that	 thequestion  of  imposing the two conditions mentioned  by	 thesecond	part can arise only after the grant of the  license.The  two  parts,  read	together,  can	lead  only  to	 theconclusion that the discretion vested in the Commissioner isguided	by  the	 two conditions mentioned  in  the  section,namely, the securing of good behaviour and the prevention ofdrunkenness  and  disorder and a third by  necessary  impli-cation,	 that the applicant must have actual  and  effectivecontrol	 and  possession  of the place where  he  keeps	 theeating house.Section 39 of the Calcutta Police Act, 1866, therefore, con-fers   no  arbitrary  or  uncanalised  discretion   on	 theCommissioner,  unguided	 by  any  criteria,  and  does	 notconstitute  an unreasonable restriction on  the	 fundamentalright  to  carry  on  trade  under  Art.  19(i)(g)  of	 theConstitution.Rustom	jamshed	 Irani v. Harley Kennedy, (1901)  I.L.R.  26Bom. 386, inapplicable.Although there can be no doubt that procedural provisions ofa   statute   also  enter  into	 the  verdict  as   to	 itsreasonableness,	 it  cannot  be	 laid  down  as	 a   generalproposition that if a licensing statute omits to provide fora  hearing  or for the giving of reasons for  refusal,	suchomission   must	 necessarily  constitute   an	unreasonablerestriction  on	 a fundamental right.  The  Commissioner  inpassing an order under the section acts administratively andalthough  he must act reasonably, there is no duty  cast  onhim			    137to act judicially.  Regard being had to the setting in whichthe   impugned	 section  appears  in  the   Act   and	 thecircumstances  of ,.this case, it could not be said that  s.39 of the Act was such a restriction.State  of Madras v. V. G. Row, [1952] S.C.R.  597,  NagendraNath Bora v. The Commissioner of Hills Division and Appeals,Assam,	[1958]	S.C.R.	1240, Nakkuda Ali v.  M.  F.  De  S.jayaratne, 1951 A.C. 66 and Express Newspapers (P.) Ltd.  v.The Union of India, [1959] S.C.R. 12, relied on.If an applicant thinks that he has fulfilled the three	con-ditions	 and the Commissioner has unreasonably rejected	 hisapplication,  he  has  his  remedy under  Art.	226  of	 theConstitution.Per  Subba Rao, J.-It is well settled that  restrictions  onfundamental  rights  must not be arbitrary or  excessive  orbeyond	what  is  required in the interest  of	the  generalpublic.	  Such restrictions have to be tested both from	 thesubstantive and the procedural aspects.	 An uncontrolled  oruncanalised  power constitutes an unreasonable	restriction.Even though the statute may clearly express the	 legislativepolicy	that cannot be enough unless it provides a  suitablemachinery  for implementation of that policy  in  accordancewith  the principles of natural justice.   Restrictions	 arejustifiable  and  in  deciding	whether	 a  restriction	  isreasonable  or not, the Court cannot attach much  importanceto  the fact that the impugned statute vests  discretion  inthe  State  Government	or  a high  officer.   Nor  can	 thedistinction  between  an  administrative  authority  and   ajudicial  one have much relevance except that the Court	 maybe  more inclined to uphold the discretion if vested  in  animpartial    judicial	authority   rather   than   in	  anadministrative one.State  of  Madras v. V. G. Row, [1952]	S.C.R.	597,  ThakurRaghubir Singh v. Court of Wards, Ajmer, [1953] S.C.R.	1049and  M/s.  Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain v. The State of  UttarPradesh, [1954] S.C.R. 803, relied on.Babulal	 Chandra v. Chief justice and judges, High Court  ofPatna, A.I.R. 1954 S.C. 524, Harishankar Bagla v. The  StateOf  Madhya Pradesh, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380, Union of  India  v.Bhana  Mal Gulzarimal Ltd., [1960] 2 S.C.R. 627 and  MineralDevelopment  Ltd.,  State  of Bihar,  [1960]  2	 S.C.R.	 609considered.Thus viewed, the plain words of the impugned section  cannotbe  said  to  lay  down any  policy  reasonably	 capable  ofcontrolling the discretion vested in the Commissioner.The word 'may' coupled with the words 'at his discretion' inthe  first  part  of  the  section  clearly  emphasises	 theintention of the Legislature to confer absolute power on theCommissioner.  The second part deals with the nature of	 theconditions to be inserted in the license.  But the scope  ofthe discretion to issue18138the license and the power to impose conditions in a  licenseare two different matters.Even  if  the two conditions mentioned in  the	second	partcould  be read into the first, the discretion  conferred  bythe  section  would  still be arbitrary	 since	the  sectionneither	  requires   that  the	Commissioner   should	givereasonable  opportunity	 to the applicant to prove  that  hesatisfies both the tests prescribed by it nor that he shouldgive  reasons  for  refusing the license and  no  appeal  isprovided for.Consequently   , from the substantive as much as the  proce-dural  aspect,	s. 39 of the Act infringes  the	 fundamentalright  of the petitioner guaranteed by Art. 19(i)(g) of	 theConstitution.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 22 of 1960.Petition  under	 Art. 32 of the Constitution  of  India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.H.J. Umrigar and B. P. Maheshwari, for the petitioner.A.C.  Mitra, B. Das and P. K. Bose, for	 the  respondentsNos. 1 and 2.P. K. Mukherjee, for respondent No. 3.1960, December 9. The Judgment of Kapur, Gajendragadkar	 andWanchoo,  JJ.,	was delivered by Wanchoo, J.,  and  that  ofSinha, C.J., and Subba Rao, J., was delivered by Subba	Rao,J.WANCHOO, J.-This petition under Art. 32 of the	Constitutionchallenges  the constitutionality of s. 39 of  the  CalcuttaPolice	Act, No. IV of 1866, (hereinafter called  the  Act).The  facts necessary for our purpose are these.	  On  August11, 1954, the petitioner entered into an agreement with	 oneHaripada  Bhowmick, who is respondent No. 3 with respect  toan eating house named 'Kalpatoru Cafeteria', situate in	 No.2 Chowranghee Road, Calcutta.  The petitioner was  appointeda  contractor by this agreement and was given the  exclusiveuse  and  occupation of the said eating house  upon  certainterms  and conditions.	A licence has to be taken  out	withrespect	 to  an	 eating house under s. 39 of  the  Act.	  Itappears	 that  originally  the licence was in  the  name  ofBhowmick, and one of the conditions of the licence was	thatthe eating house should not be sublet139without	  permission   of the	Commissioner   of   Police(hereinafter referred to as the Commissioner).	On the	dateof  the	 agreement, Bhowmick held a licence for	 the  eatinghouse,	which was to expire on March 31, 1955.	It  is	saidthat  under the agreement the licence was to remain  in	 thename  of Bhowmick while the petitioner was to carry  on	 thebusiness  as  a contractor.  The petitioner carried  on	 thebusiness  from	after  the  date of  the  agreement  and  noapplication for a fresh licence was made by him before March31,  1955, when the licence in the name of Bhowmick  was  toexpire.	 It was only on August 8, 1955, that an	 applicationfor licence was made by the petitioner on behalf and in	 thename  of Bhowmick, though the business was continued  to  berun  by him all the time after March 31, 1955.	 It  appearsthat  the  application	made in the  name  of  Bhowmick	 wasrejected on December 27, 1956; but in the meantime  Bhowmickwas prosecuted on September 10, 1955, for running the eatinghouse without a licence and was fined on December 12,  1955.Thereafter  a notice was issued to Bhowmick on September  7,1956,  to show cause why his application for licence  shouldnot  be refused inasmuch as he had not applied in  time	 andviolated  the  condition of the licence by  sub-letting	 theeating	house to the petitioner.  Thereafter the  petitionerapplied on September 21, 1956, for the issue of a licence inhis  own  name.	 It may be mentioned that  in  the  meantimethere had been disputes between Bhowmick and the  petitionerand a suit had been filed by Bhowmick against the petitionerin  October  1956  in  that  connection.   It  may  also  bementioned  that though the petitioner applied for the  firsttime on September 21, 1956, for licence he had already	beenprosecuted  in	October, 1955, for keeping an  eating  housewithout	 a  licence  and convicted in  November	 1955.	 Theapplication  made by the petitioner on September  21,  1956,was  eventually	 rejected on March 30, 1958, though  in	 themeantime  the  petitioner  was	all  along  continuing	 thebusiness  of  the  eating house without	 having	 obtained  alicence.   After  the  rejection  of  his  application	 thepetitioner applied to the High140Court  under  Art. 226 of the Constitution  challenging	 theconstitutionality of s. 39 and also challenging the order ofthe  Commissioner rejecting his licence on various  grounds.This application was dismissed on August 7, 1958.  Thereuponthe petitioner went up in appeal to a Division Bench of	 theHigh  Court  which was disposed of on March  4,	 1959.	 TheDivision Bench held s. 39 to be constitutional.	 It  furtherheld that as extraneous matters had been taken into  accountin rejecting the application of the petitioner for a licencethe  rejection was not in accordance with law.	However,  asthe period of one year for which a licence is valid under s.39 had expired in September 1957, and the judgment was beingdelivered  in  March 1959, the appeal was dismissed  on	 theground	that  application could not be considered  in  1959.Thereupon  the	petitioner made another application  to	 theCommissioner on March 30, 1959, for the period from April 1,1959 to March 31, 1960.	 During all this time the petitionerwas carrying on his business as a keeper of the eating housewithout a licence.  This application was found defective andanother	 application  was  made on May	14,  1959.   In	 themeantime, the petitioner again applied to the High Court  onor about May 8, 1959, under Art. 226 of the Constitution  inorder  to compel the Commissioner to issue him a licence  orin  the alternative to compel him not to prosecute  him	 forkeeping an eating house without a licence and for such otherorders as the High Court might deem fit to pass.  It may  bementioned that day to day prosecution of the petitioner	 hadbegun  from  February  1956  under s.  40  of  the  Act	 forcontinuing to keep an eating house without a licence.	Thiswrit  application filed in the High Court was  withdrawn  bythe  petitioner on May 13, 1959, as his application  to	 theCommissioner  of March 30, was defective.  On May 30,  1959,the Commissioner rejected the application of the  petitionerfor  a	licence on the ground that his antecedents  and	 hispresent conduct showed that he would not keep good  behaviorand further that he would not be able to prevent drunkennessor  disorder  among  the persons frequenting  or  using	 theeating141house'	The petitioner's complaint is that he was not  heardbefore the order rejecting his application was passed.	Thenon  June 15, 1959, the petitioner again applied	 under	Art.226  of	 the  Constitution to the  High	 Court	against	 therejection  of  his application on May 30.  On  February	 11,1960, the High Court allowed the petitioner to withdraw	 theapplication with liberty to move such application as he	 maybe  advised  before, this Court, in case  such	liberty	 wasnecessary.   Thereafter the petitioner moved this  Court  byhis present application on February 15, 1960.His  main  contention  before us is that s. 39	of  the	 Actconfers naked and uncanalised powers on the Commissioner  togrant  or  refuse a licence and that no criteria  have	beenlaid down anywhere in the Act to guide the discretion of theCommissioner.	Further,  no opportunity is provided  to  anapplicant  for	a licence to be heard either  orally  or  inwriting before passing orders on an application for licence;in  consequence, the Commissioner has been given  completelyarbitrary powers either to grant or to refuse a licence	 andthis   amounts	to  an	unreasonable  restriction   on	 thefundamental right of the petitioner to carry on the trade ofeating	 house	 keeper.   Besides  this   attack   on	 theconstitutionality of s. 39 the petitioner also contends thatthe  order  is mala fide and should be struck down  on	thisground.	  There are some other grounds in the  petition	 butthey  have  not been pressed before us and it  will  not  benecessary to consider them.The first question therefore that falls for consideration iswhether s. 39 of the Act is a reasonable restriction  withinthe  meaning  of  Art. 19(6) on	 the  fundamental  right  topractise any profession or to carry on any occupation, tradeor  business  contained in Art. 19 (1)(g).  Sec.  39  is  inthese terms:-	      "The  Commissioner  of  Police,  may,  at	 his	      discretion, from time to time, grant  licences	      to  the  keepers of such houses or  places  of	      public  resort and entertainment as  aforesaid	      for  which no licence as is specified  in	 the	      Bengal Excise Act, 1909, is required upon such	      conditions, to be inserted in every such	      142	      licence, as he, with the sanction of the	said	      State  Government	 from  time  to	 time  shall	      order, for securing the good behaviour of	 the	      keepers of the said houses or places of public	      resort or entertainment, and the prevention of	      drunkenness  and	disorder among	the  persons	      frequenting  or using the same; and  the	said	      licences	 may   be  granted   by	  the	said	      Commissioner,  for any time not exceeding	 one	      year."Learned	 counsel  for  the  petitioner	contends  that	 thelanguage  of  s.  39  shows  that  an  absolute	 discretion;untrammelled  by  any considerations, is  conferred  on	 theCommissioner by this section and there is nothing either  inthe  section or anywhere in the Act to guide the  discretionof the Commissioner in the matter of granting such licences.Therefore, according to learned counsel, the power conferredon the Commissioner is arbitrary and unguided and such poweris  necessarily	 to  be struck down on the  ground  that  itcannot be a reasonable restriction on the fundamental  rightto  carry on trade.  There is no doubt that if	the  sectionempowers  the  Commissioner  to grant or  refuse  a  licencewithout	  any  criteria	 to  guide  him,  it  would  be	  anunreasonable restriction on the right to carry on trade.  Wehave  therefore to see whether there is any guidance  eitherin  the	 section or in the Act to regulate the	exercise  ofdiscretion  of	the Commissioner in the matter	of  grantingsuch  licences.	  In this connection it must  be  rememberedthat  the  Act	was  passed  in	 1866  when  there  were  nofundamental rights and we cannot expect that  meticulousnessof  language which should be found in statutes passed  afterJanuary	 26,  1950.  It may also be mentioned that  the	 Actreplaced  two  earlier Acts, namely, Act XIII  of  1856	 andXLVIII	of 1860.  The Act of 1860 also contained  provisionsfor  licences for eating houses in ss.	II and	12  thereof,though	 the  language	of  those  sections   was   somewhatdifferent.  Sec. 11 laid down that in the towns of Calcutta,Madras	and  Bombay no eating house shall  be  kept  withoutlicence	 and provided for a penalty for the same.   See.  12then laid down that the Commissioner shall from time to timegrant licences to143keepers of such houses upon conditions for securing the goodbehaviour  of  the keepers of the said houses  and  for	 theprevention  of	drunkenness and disorder among	the  personsfrequenting  or	 using	the same.  The language	 of  s.	 39,however,  is  different	 inasmuch as it	 provides  that	 theCommissioner  may at his discretion from time to time  grantlicences.   The	 Act of 1860 was interpreted by	 the  BombayHigh Court in Rustom J. Irani v. H. Kennedy (1) as giving nodiscretion  to the Commissioner to refuse a licence  if	 theperson	applying for the licence was willing to	 fulfil	 theconditions  imposed  thereunder.  In the case  of  Calcutta,however,  s. 39 made a change in the language  contained  inthe earlier Act giving discretion to the Commissioner in thematter	of  grant of licences.	The  question  therefore  iswhether	 the word "discretion" introduced by s. 39 means  anabsolute  and  unguided discretion and would  therefore	 nowbecome an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental  rightof  a  citizen to carry on the trade of	 keeping  an  eatinghouse.	 There	is no doubt, as we have	 already  indicated,that  the section does not say as many of the provisions  oflaws passed after January 26, 1950, do that the Commissionerwould  grant  licence on certain  specified  considerations.The contention on behalf of the petitioner is that the firstpart  of  s.  39  confers  an  absolute	 discretion  on	 theCommissioner  to  grant or to refuse a licence	just  as  hepleases	 and  that  the second part of	the  section  merelyprovides  for certain conditions to be imposed in  case	 theCommissioner pleases to grant a licence.  We are however  ofopinion	 that  when we are judging a law passed in  1866  todecide	whether it satisfies the test  of  constitutionalitybased  on Art. 19(1)(g) and Art. 19(6), we should  take	 thesection as a whole and see whether on a fair reading of	 thesection	 it  can be said that there is no guidance  for	 theCommissioner in the matter of granting or refusing  licencesand  his power is arbitrary.  If such guidance can be  foundon  a fair reading of the section, there would be no  reasonfor  striking it down simply because it has not been  wordedin a manner which(1)  (1901) I.L.R. 26 Bom. 396.144would show immediately that considerations arising from	 theprovisions  of	Art. 19(1)(g) and Art. 19(6) were  in  mind-naturally  those considerations could not be in the mind  ofthe  legislature in 1866.  We have therefore to see  whetheran Act passed before the Constitution came into force can bereasonably  and	 fairly read as containing guidance  in	 thematter	of licensing, as in this case.	If it can be  fairlyand  reasonably	 read to contain guidance it should  not  bestruck	down.	If,  on	 the  other  hand,  on	a  fair	 andreasonable  construction of the section as a whole, we	cometo  the conclusion that there is no guidance in it  and	 thediscretion  vested  in	the  Commissioner  is  absolute	 andarbitrary it will have be struck down.What  then  does the section provide?	It  certainly  givespowers	to  the	 Commissioner  to  grant  licences  at	 hisdiscretion.   Those  words, however, by	 themselves  do	 notnecessarily mean that the Commissioner has the power to	 actarbitrarily  and grant licences where he pleases and  refusewhere  he  does not please to do so.  The  section  providesfurther	 that  the licence has to be  granted  upon  certainconditions and those conditions have to satisfy two objects,namely, (i) securing of the good behaviour of the keepers ofthe said houses or places of public resort and entertainmentand  (ii) the prevention of drunkenness and  disorder  amongthe persons frequenting or using the same.  Of course, it isimplicit in the section that a licence will only be  grantedto a person who is the keeper of an eating house.  We cannotread  the  section  as laying down that	 the  discretion  isabsolute  and  that  the im. posing of	conditions  for	 theaforesaid  two	objects	 only  arises  after  that  absolutediscretion  has	 been exercised in favour of  the  grant  oflicences.   We	see  no unfairness  or	unreasonableness  inreading	 the  section to mean that  the	 Commissioner  shallsatisfy	 himself (i) that the person applying for a  licenceis  the keeper of an eating house, meaning thereby  that  hehas a place where he can carry on the business or trade	 andthat he actually and effectively has control and  possessionof  that  place, (ii) that the keeper is a  person  of	goodbehaviour so that the eating house may not become			    145a  resort of criminals and persons of ill-repute, and  (iii)that the keeper is in a position to prevent drunkenness	 anddisorder  among	 those who come to the eating  house.	Thissection	 appears in the Police Act, the purpose of which  isto  maintain law and order and that is why we find that	 thetwo  objects  to be secured when granting licences  are	 thegood  behaviour of the keeper himself and the prevention  ofdrunkenness and disorder among those who frequent the eatinghouse.	It seems therefore to us that s. 39 clearly providesthat  the Commissioner will use his discretion	in  decidingwhether	 the person applying for a licence is in actual	 andeffective  control  and possession of the  place  where	 theeating	house is to be kept and is thus the keeper  thereof.He will also satisfy himself that the keeper is a person  ofgood  behaviour	 and  further that he  is  able	 to  preventdrunkenness  and  disorder in the eating house.	  If  he  issatisfied  on these three matters, it seems to us  that	 thesection	 contemplates that the discretion will be  exercisedin favour of the grant of a licence.  We cannot accept	thateven  though  the  Commissioner may be	satisfied  that	 theperson	applying  for  a licence has  actual  and  effectivecontrol	 of the place where he is going to keep	 the  eatinghouse,	is  a  person  of good	behaviour  and	can  preventdrunkenness and disorder among the clientele, he will  stillgo  on to refuse the licence.  The discretion that is  givento him is to satisfy himself on these three points and if heis satisfied about them he has to grant the licence.  On theother  hand  if he is not satisfied on any one	or  more  ofthese points he will exercise the discretion by refusing thelicence.   As for the conditions which will be	inserted  inthe  licence, they are only for the purpose of	carrying  onthe  two  objects  specified  in  the  section.	  They	willnaturally  be  more detailed in order to carry out  the	 twoobjects	 aforesaid.   But these two objects in	our  opinionalong  with the obvious implication in the section that	 theperson	applying must have actual and effective	 control  ofthe place where he is going to keep the eating house are thecriteria which will govern the exercise146of discretion by the Commissioner in the matter of  grantingor  refusing  a licence.  We cannot agree with	the  learnedcounsel	 for  the  petitioner that the two parts  of  s.  39should	be read separately, as if one has no effect  on	 theother.	Reading them together, it is in our opinion fair andreasonable to come to the conclusion that the discretion  ofthe Commissioner in this matter is guided by the two objectsmentioned  in the section and by the  necessary	 implicationcontained  in it that the person applying must be in  actualand  effective control and possession of the place where  heis  going to keep the eating house.  The argument  thereforethat  s.  39  confers an  arbitrary  and  uncanalised  powerWithout	 any  criteria	for guiding the	 discretion  of	 thelicensing authority must fail and the section cannot be heldto  be an unreasonable restriction on the right to carry  ontrade on this ground.Then  it  is  urged that even if there is  guidance  in	 thesection it provides for no hearing either oral or written ofthe person applying for a licence.  Further it provides	 forno  grounds to be given for refusing a licence.	  Therefore,though there may be some guiding principle in the matter  ofgranting  licences, the absence of a provision	for  hearingand  for  giving  reasons for refusal would  also  make	 theprovision unconstitutional as an unreasonable restriction ona fundamental right.  Reference in this connection was	madeto  State of Madras v. V. G. Row (1) where it  was  observedthat-	      "In  considering	the reasonableness  of	laws	      imposing	restrictions on	 fundamental  right,	      both the substantive and procedural aspects of	      the  impugned law should be examined from	 the	      point  of view of reasonableness and the	test	      of reasonableness, wherever prescribed, should	      be applied to each individual statute impugned	      and  no abstract standard or general pattern	      of   reasonableness  can	be  laid   down	  as	      applicable to all cases."There  is no doubt that procedural provisions of  a  statutealso enter into the verdict as to its reasonableness; but atthe same time there can be no abstract or			    147general	 principles which would govern the matter  and	eachstatute	 has  to  be examined in its  own  setting.   It  isundoubtedly  correct  that no provision has  been  made	 forgiving a hearing to a person applying for a licence and	 theCommissioner  has  not	to give reasons	 when  refusing	 thelicence; but it cannot be laid down as a general propositionthat where in the case of licensing statute no provision  ismade  for  hearing  and there is  no  provision	 for  givingreasons	 for  refusal  the statute must be  struck  down  asnecessarily  an	 unreasonable restriction on  a	 fundamentalright.	 No  case has been cited before us which  lays	downsuch  a general proposition.  We have therefore	 to  examinethe section in its setting to decide whether the absence  ofa  provision for hearing and for requiring the	Commissionerto  give  reasons  for	refusal	 would	make  this   sectionunconstitutional.   The section appears in the	Police	Act,which deals generally with matters of law and order and	 thetwo  objects specified in the section are also for the	samepurpose.  The discretion is vested in a high police  officerwho, one would expect, would use it reasonably.	 There is noprovision  for	appeal and there is no lis  as	between	 theperson	applying  for a licence and  the  Commissioner;	 theexercise  of  the  discretion depends  upon  the  subjectivesatisfaction  of the Commissioner as to whether	 the  personapplying  for  a  licence  satisfies  the  three  conditionsmentioned  above.  It is true that the order when  made	 oneway  or the other affects the fundamental right of  carryingon  trade,  but	 in the circumstances it cannot	 but  be  anadministrative	order  (see,  Nagendra	Nath  Bora  v.	 TheCommissioner of Hills Division and Appeals, Assam (1)),	 andthough the Commissioner is expected to act reasonably  thereis no duty cast on him to act judicially.  In Nakkuda Ali v.M.  F.	De S. Jayaratne (2), the Privy Council	pointed	 outthat  it  was  Quite  possible	to  act	 reasonably  withoutnecessarily actinG judicially and that it was a long step inthe  argument to say that because a man is expected  to	 actreasonably  he	cannot	do so without a	 course	 of  conductanalogous  to  the  judicial  process.	 The  compulsion  ofhearing before(1) [1958] S.C.R. 1240,1253.(2) [1951] A.C. 66.148passing the order implied in the maxim 'audi alteram partem'applies	 only  to judicial  or	quasi-judicial	proceedings:(see,  Express Newspapers (P.) Ltd. v. The, Union  of  India(1)).  Therefore, the fact that no hearing is required to begiven  by  the Commissioner before he decides  to  grant  orrefuse	a  licence  would  not make  the  provisions  as  tolicensing  in  the circumstances of this  case	unreasonablerestrictions  on  the  fundamental right of  carrying  on  atrade.	For- the same reasons it cannot be said that becausethe  reasons for refusal are not communicated to the  personapplying   that	  would	  make	 the   licensing   provisionunconstitutional.  The person applying knows that under	 thelaw there are three conditions (already set out above) whichthe Commissioner has to consider in granting or refusing thelicence.  If he thinks that he fulfills the three conditionsand the Commissioner has acted unreasonably in rejecting hisapplication he is not without a remedy; he can apply to	 theHigh  Court  under Art. 226 and compel the  Commissioner  todisclose  the  reasons for refusal before the Court  and  ifthose reasons are extraneous or are not germane to the threematters arising under s. 39, the High Court will compel	 theCommissioner  to  act  within the scope of s.  39.   We	 aretherefore of opinion that in the circumstances of this	caseand  in the setting in which s. 39 appears the mere  absenceof   a	 provision  for	 a  hearing  or	 a   provision	 forcommunicating	the  reasons  for  refusal  to	the   personapplying,  does	 not  make  s.	39  unconstitutional  as  anunreasonable restriction on a fundamental right.  The attacktherefore on the constitutionality of s. 39 must fail.Then  we turn to the question of mala fides.  It is not	 thecase  of  the  petitioner  that	 the  Commissioner  has	 anypersonal  animus  against  him	or  that  he  is   favouringBhowmick.  What he says in ground 41 of his petition in thisconnection is that the reasons given by the Commissioner  inhis  order dated May 30, 1959, for refusing the licence	 arenot  correct and that the Commissioner is annoyed  with	 himbecause	 he  went  to  the High Court by  means	 of  a	writapplication.(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 12. 106.149These  in  our opinion are no grounds for holding  that	 theorder  of  the Commissioner passed in this case on  May	 30,1959, is malafide. The  petition therefore fails and is hereby dismissed	withcosts.SUBBA RAO, J.-We regret our inability to agree with Wanchoo,J. Our learned brother in his judgment has stated the  factsfully and it is not necessary to restate them here.The  petitioner	 applied  to  the  Commissioner	 of  Police,Calcutta,  for	a  licence to enable him  to  carry  on	 thebusiness of an eating house known as "Kalpatoru	 Cafeteria".The  Commissioner by his order dated May 30, 1959,  rejectedthe application made by the petitioner for a licence on	 twogrounds,  namely, that he was not satisfied that  from	"theantecedents  and resent conduct" of the petitioner it  wouldbe  reasonable to think that the petitioner would keep	goodbehaviour  and	would  be able	to  prevent  drunkenness  ordisorder  among	 the persons frequenting the  eating  house.The  application  was rejected under s. 39 of  the  CalcuttaPolice	Act,  No. IV of 1866 (hereinafter called  the  Act).The short question raised is whether s. 39  of	the  Act  isconstitutionally valid.	 Section 39 of	the Act reads:	      "The  COMMISSIONER  of Police,  may,  at	his.	      discretion, from time to time, grant  licenses	      to  the  keepers of such houses or  places  of	      public  resort and entertainment as  aforesaid	      for  which no license as is specified  in	 the	      Bengal Excise Act, 1909, is required upon such	      conditions,  to  be  inserted  in	 every	such	      license, as he, with the sanction of the	said	      State  Government	 from  time  to	 time  shall	      order, for securing the good behaviour of	 the	      keepers of the said houses or places of public	      resort or entertainment, and the prevention of	      drunkenness  and	disorder among	the  persons	      frequenting  or using the same; and  the	said	      licenses	 may   be  granted   by	  the	said	      Commissioner,  for any time not exceeding	 one	      year."Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that150the petitioner has under Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution afundamental  right  to carry on the business  of  an  eatinghouse  and  that the provisions of s. 39 of the	 Act  imposeunreasonable restrictions on the exercise of his right	and,therefore, the said section is void.Before scrutinising the provisions of that section it  wouldbe  convenient at the outset to notice the relevant  aspectsof the law vis-a-vis the concept of reasonable	restrictionson  a fundamental right.  The concept of reasonableness	 hasbeen clearly defined by Patanjali Sastri, C. J., in State afMadras v. V. G. Row (1) thus:	      "It  is important in this context to  bear  in	      mind that the test of reasonableness, wherever	      prescribed,   should   be	 applied   to	each	      individual  statute impugned, and no  abstract			    standard, or general pattern, of reasonableness	      can  be laid down as applicable to all  cases.	      The  nature of the right alleged to have	been	      infringed,  the  underlying  purpose  of	 the	      restrictions 'imposed, the extent and  urgency	      of the evil sought Co be remedied thereby, the	      disproportion    of   the	  imposition,	 the	      prevailing conditions at the time, should	 all	      enter into the judicial verdict".There  the  constitutional validity of s.  15(2)(b)  of	 theIndian Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1908, was impugned on theground	that  it  fell	outside	 the  scope  of	  authorizedrestrictions  in Art. 19(4) of the Constitution.  The  issueof  a  notification  by the State  Government  declaring  anassociation unlawful was made to depend upon its  subjectivesatisfaction  of  certain objective factors.  The  Act	alsoprovided  for  an enquiry before an Advisory Board  and	 thesubsequent  review  of the order by the	 Government  on	 thebasis  of the said enquiry.  It was pressed upon this  Courtto hold that the said restriction passed the test laid	downin  Art. 19(4) of the Constitution.  In rejecting  the	con-tention, Patanjali Sastri, C. J., observed thus:	      "The formula of subjective satisfaction of the	      Government   or  of  its	officers,  with	  an	      Advisory	      (1)[1952] S.C.R. 597, 607, 608.	      151	      Board  thrown  in to review the  materials  on	      which the Government seeks to override a basic	      freedom  guaranteed  to the  citizen,  may  be	      viewed as reasonable only in very	 exceptional	      circumstances and within the narrowest limits,	      and  cannot  receive judicial  approval  as  a	      general pattern of reasonable restrictions  on	      fundamental rights."The learned Chief Justice adverting to the procedural aspectof the restriction criticised the absence of a provision  inthe impugned Act for personal service on the association andthus depriving its members of the opportunity to make  theirrepresentations.Compared  with s. 39 of the Act, the impugned provisions  ofthe Criminal Law Amendment Act impose more stringent controlon   the  exercise  of	the  discretionary  power   by	 theGovernment.  Yet the Court struck down the provisions.	 Theattempt made to distinguish that decision on the ground thatit  related  to the fundamental right of freedom  of  speechcannot	be justified as the freedom to do business  is	alsoone   of   the	important  fundamental	rights	 under	 theConstitution,The  case of Thakur Raghubir Singh v. Court of Wards,  Ajmer(1) was concerned with the question of the reasonableness ofthe  provisions	 of  s. 112 of the Ajmer  Tenancy  and	LandRecords	 Act  (XLII  of	 1950) which  provided	that  "if  alandlord  habitually infringes the rights of a tenant  underthis Act, he shall, notwithstanding anything in s. 7 of	 theAjmer  Government  Wards Regulation, 1888 (1  of  1888),  bedeemed	to be a 'landlord who is disqualified to manage	 hisown  property'	within	the  meaning of s.  6  of  the	saidRegulation  and	 his property shall be liable  to  be  takenunder  the  superintendence  of the  Court  of	Wards."	 Thedetermination of the question whether a landlord  habituallyinfringed  the rights of a tenant was left to the  Court  ofWards.	 This  Court  held that section was  void  as  beingunreasonable  restriction  on the right in property  as	 therestriction made the enjoyment of that right to depend	uponthe mere discretion of the(1)[1953] S.C.R. 1049, 1055.152executive.  Mahajan, J., as he then was, observed as under:	      "When   a	 law  deprives	a  person   of	 his	      possession  of his property for an  indefinite	      period  of  time	merely	on  the	  subjective	      determination of an executive officer, such  a	      law  can,	 on  no	 construction  of  the	word	      "reasonable"  be	described as  coming  within	      that   expression,   because   it	  completely	      negatives the fundamental right by making	 its	      enjoyment	 depend	 on the	 mere  pleasure	 and	      discretion  of  the  executive,  the   citizen	      affected having no right to have recourse	 for	      establishing the contrary in a, civil court."Though s. 112 of the Ajmer Tenancy and Land Records Act laiddown  an  objective  test,  namely,"a  landlord	  habituallyinfringing  the	 rights	 of tenants under  that	 Act",	and,therefore, may be said to have laid down some policy for theexercise  of  the  discretion by the  Court  of	 Wards,	 thesection	 was struck down as the discretion  was	 uncanalisedand  no	 effective procedure was prescribed  to	 remedy	 thegrievance of an aggrieved party.It  cannot  be said that the Commissioner of  Police  has  ahigher	status	than the Court of Wards or that	 the  takingover  of the management of an estate affects a larger  rightthan preventing a person from doing his business.The  decision in Messrs.  Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain v.	 TheState of Uttar Pradesh (1) dealt with cl. 4(3) of the  UttarPradesh	 Coal Control Order, 1953, whereunder the  licensingauthority  was	given absolute power to grant or  refuse  togrant, renew or refuse to renew, suspend, revoke, cancel  ormodify	any licence under the said Order and the only  thinghe  had to do was to record reasons for the action he  took.Under  the clause the State Coal Controller  could  delegatepower  to any other officer.  This Court held that the	saidOrder  was void as it imposed unreasonable  restrictions  onthe  freedom  of trade and business  guaranteed	 under	Art.19(1)(g)  of  the  Constitution and not	 coming	 within	 theprotection afforded(1)[1954] S.C.R. 803, 811.			    153by  cl. (6) of the Article.  Mukherjea, J., as he then	was,observed to the following effect:	      "The power of granting or withholding licences	      or  of  fixing the prices of the	goods  would	      necessarily  have	 to  be	 vested	 in  certain	      public  officers	or  bodies  and	 they  would	      certainly have to be left with some amount  of	      discretion  in  these  matters.	So  far	  no	      exception	 can  be  taken;  but  the  mischief	      arises  when  the	 power	conferred  on	such	      officers is an arbitrary power unregulated  by	      any rule or principle and it is left  entirely	      to the discretion of particular persons to  do	      anything	they  like  without  any  check	  or	      control by any higher authority."We  shall now notice some of the decisions cited at the	 Baron behalf of the Commissioner in support of the validity  ofthe impugned provisions.  In Babul Chandra v. Chief  Justiceand  Judges,  High Court of Patna (1) it was held  that	 the proviso  to sub-s. (1) of s. 9 of the Indian	 Bar  CouncilsAct  was not void as being an unreasonable restriction	uponthe  freedom  to practise a profession, or to  carry  on  anoccupation, trade or calling.  The proviso to s. 9(1) statesexpressly  that	 the rules "shall not limit or	in  any	 wayaffect	the power of the High Court to refuse  admission  toany person at its discretion".	Under s. 8 of the Indian BarCouncils Act, no person is entitled as of right to  practisein any High Court, unless his name is entered in the roll ofthe Advocates of that Court maintained under the Act.  Unders.  9 of that Act, the Bar Council can frame rules with	 thesanction  of  the High Court to regulate  the  admission  ofpersons	 as  Advocates.	 The proviso  saves  the  overridingpower  of  the	High  Court  to	 refuse	 admission  in	 itsdiscretion.  It was contendedthat    an	  unfettered	anduncontrolled discretion wasgiven  to the High  Court  andthat was unreasonable. This  Court pointed out that  therecould not be a better authority than the High Court in	thatState  to  which  the discretion could	be  entrusted.	Thisdecision  turned upon three considerations, namely,  (1)  noperson	was  entitled  as  of right  to	 practise;  (2)	 thediscretion to refuse was vested in the(1)A.I.R. 1954 S.C R. 524.20154highest judicial body in the State; and (3) it was  implicitin  the power of discretion that the High Court	 would	givenotice before rejecting an application.	 On that basis	thisCourt  held that the restrictions imposed by the proviso  tos. 9(1) were reasonable.Nor  does the decision in Harishankar Bagla v. The State  ofMadhya Pradesh (1) lay down any different principle.   Therethis  Court was concerned with cl. 3 of the  Cotton  Textile(Control of  Movement)	Order, 1948,  promulgated  by  theCentral	 Government  under s. 3 of  the	 Essential  Supplies(Temporary  Powers) Act, 1946, which required a	 citizen  totake a permit from the Textile Commissioner to enable him totransport   cotton  textiles  purchased	 by  him.   It	 wascontended in that case that the requirement of a permit	 wasan  unreasonable  restriction on the citizen's	right  undersub-cls.  (f)  and (g) of Art. 19(1)  of  the  Constitution.This Court rejected the contention and affirmed the validityof  the law.  Mahajan, C. J., speaking for this	 Court	gavefour reasons in support of his conclusion and they were: (1)the  Legislature  passed the Essential	Supplies  (TemporaryPowers)	 Act  during  a	 period of  emergency  when  it	 wasnecessary  to impose control on the production,	 supply	 anddistribution  of  commodities essential to the life  of	 thecommunity; (2) cl. 3 of the Control Order did not deprive  acitizen	 of  the  right to dispose of  or  transport  cottontextiles  purchased by him, but only required him to take  apermit	from  the  Textile Commissioner	 to  enable  him  totransport them; (3) if transport of essential commodities byrail or other means of conveyance was left uncontrolled,  itmight  well  have  seriously hampered the  supply  of  thesecommodities to the public; and (4) the policy underlying theOrder  was clearly enunciated by the provisions therein	 andthat  policy governed the exercise of the discretion by	 theTextile	 Commissioner.	On these considerations	 this  Courtmaintained  the validity of that Order.	 The  said  decisionhas  no	 analogy to the provisions of s. 39 of	the  Act  inquestion.The decision in Union of India v. Bhana Mal Gulzarimal	Ltd.(2) related to the question of validity of(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380.(2) [1960] 2 S.C.R. 627, 641.155cl.  11B  of the Iron and Steel (Control of  Production	 andDistribution)  Order, 1941.  This Court held, having  regardto  the provisions of that Order and those of the  EssentialSupplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946, that the	 Legislaturehad  clearly enunciated its legislative policy and that	 cl.11B of the Order laid down the object which was intended  tobe achieved.  Gajendragadkar, J., delivering the judgment ofthe Court, observed thus:	      "Therefore reading cl. 11B by itself we do not	      see how it would be possible to hold that	 the	      said clause is violative of Art. 19.  In fact,	      if  ss.  3 and 4 are valid and  cl.  11B	does	      nothing more than prescribe conditions for the	      exercise of the delegate's authority which are	      consistent  with	s. 3 it is only	 the  actual	      price structure fixed by the Controller  which	      in a given case can be successfully challenged	      as violative of Art. 19."The  learned Judge considered the price structure  fixed  bythe  notification and observed that the respondents  thereindid not seriously challenge the validity of the notificationin  respect of price structure and, that apart, it  was	 notproved	that  the notification adversely  affected  a  largeclass of dealers taken as a whole.  The judgment, therefore,does not help the respondents.Nor  is	 the decision of this Court in	Mineral	 DevelopmentLtd.  v. State of Bihar (1) of any help to the	respondents.There  the constitutional validity of s. 25(1) of the  BiharMica  Act  (10	of  1948)  was	impugned  as  violating	 thepetitioners' fundamental right under Art. 19(1)(f) and	(g),of  the	 Constitution.	 Under	s.  25(1)(c)  of  that	 Actdiscretion  was	 given	to cancel a  licence  to  the  StateGovernment,  but  cl.  (c) was hedged in  by  two  importantrestrictions,  namely,	(i) the failure to comply  with	 theprovisions  of that Act or the rules made thereunder  shouldbe a repeated failure and not a mere sporadic one, i.e., thedefaulter must be a recalcitrant one; (ii) before  cancelingthe  licence the State Government should  afford  reasonableopportunity to the licensee to show cause why his license(1)  [1960] 2 S.C.R. 609, 619.156should	not  be	 cancelled.  This  Court  in  upholding	 thevalidity of the said section observed thus:	      "The  power given to the State  Government  is	      only  to achieve the object of the Act,  i.e.,	      to  enforce  the said provisions,	 which	have	      been enacted in the a interest of the  public;	      and  that	 power,	 as we	have  indicated,  is	      exercisable  on the basis of  objective  tests	      and  in  accordance  with	 the  principles  of	      natural  justice.	 We cannot, therefore,	hold	      that  s.	25(1)(c)  of  the  Act	imposes	  an	      unreasonable  restriction on the	petitioner's	      fundamental rights under Art. 19(1)(f) and (g)	      of the Constitution."This  decision far from helping the respondents is, to	someextent, against their contention.The  result of the discussion may briefly be  summarized  inthe form of the following propositions: A fundamental  rightto do business can be controlled by the State only by makinga  law	imposing  in  the interest  of	the  general  publicreasonable  restrictions on the exercise of the said  right;restrictions  on the exercise of a fundamental	right  shallnot be arbitrary or excessive or beyond what is required  inthe interest of the general public; the reasonableness of  arestriction shall be tested both from substantive and proce-dural	aspects;  an  uncontrolled  and	 uncanalised   powerconferred  on an officer is an unreasonable  restriction  onsuch  right;  though  a legislative  policy  may  have	beenclearly	 expressed  in a statute, it must also pro.  vide  asuitable   machinery   for  implementing  that	 policy	  inaccordance with the principles of natural justice; whether arestriction  is reasonable or not is a	justiciable  conceptand  it	 is for the Court to come to one conclusion  or	 theother  having  regard  to the considerations  laid  down  byPatanjali  Sastri,  C.J., in State of Madras v.	 V.  G.	 Row(1).and similar others; in taking an overall picture of	 therelevant circumstances, the Court may legitimately take intoconsideration the fact that the discretion is entrusted to aState Government or a highly placed officer, but that in it-self  is of minor importance for the simple reason that	 thefundamental right itself is guaranteed against the(1)[1952] S.C.R. 597.157action	of the State, which is defined to include  not	onlythe  Union  or the State Governments  but  also	 Parliament,Legislatures  and all local or other authorities within	 theterritory    of	  India;   the	 distinction   between	  anadministrative authority and a judicial authority is not  ofmuch  relevance in the context of a reasonable	restriction,except	perhaps	 a  Court may more readily  be	inclined  touphold	a  restriction	if  a  matter  is  entrusted  to  animpartial judicial authority than to an executive authority.Bearing the aforesaid principles in mind, let us look at theimpugned  provisions  of  the Act.   The  section  has	beenextracted  supra.  The first part of the section  confers  afree and unqualified discretion on the Commissioner to granta  licence.   A	 discretionary	power  to  issue  a  licencenecessarily  implies a power to refuse to issue	 a  licence.The word "may" is an enabling one and in its ordinary  sensemeans  "Permissible".  When coupled with the words  "at	 hisdiscretion" it emphasises the clear intention of the  legis-lature to confer on the Commissioner an unrestrained freedomto act according to his own judgment and conscience.  If thesection stops there, it is common case that the power of theCommissioner  is.uncontrolled and uncanalised.	 The  secondpart of the section deals with the nature of the  conditionsto be inserted in the licence.	The conditions to be imposedare  for  securing the good behaviour of keepers  of  publicresort	and for the prevention of drunkenness  and  disorderamong  the  persons frequenting or using  such	places.	  Nodoubt  the  said conditions must have the  sanction  of	 theState	Government.   This  part,  therefore,  ensures	 thepeaceful  and orderly conduct of business.  The	 section  isclear  and unambiguous in terms and it is not disputed	thatthe  plain  terms  of  the  section  will  not	enable	 theconditions  of a licence to be projected into the matter  ofthe  exercise of the discretion.  But what is  contended  isthat  the conditions laid down a precise policy for  guidingthe discretion of the Commissioner to give or not to give  alicence.  There are many objections to this approach158to the problem.	 Firstly, it is to rewrite the section.	  Ifthe  legislature intended to guide the discretion by  layingdown  objective criteria it would have stated so in  expressterms;	it  would not have left the matter to  the  absolutediscretion  of	the  Commissioner.   Secondly,	if  the	 twoconditions  only of the licence control the exercise of	 thediscretion,  the Commissioner cannot travel beyond the	saidtwo conditions.	 As a result the amplitude of the discretionis drastically cut down.  The Commissioner would be able  torefuse a licence only if he was satisfied that the applicantcould not be relied upon to comply with the said conditions;if  he	was so satisfied, he could not refuse a	 licence  inspite  of  the	fact that there were  many  other  good	 andrelevant  reasons for doing so.	 Thirdly, if the  conditionsare not exhaustive but only illustrative, the section  wouldcontinue to suffer from the same vice, as it would still  beopen  to the Commissioner to refuse a licence for any  otherreason.	  Fourthly,  discretion based upon  an	anticipatorybreach of conditions will be as arbitrary as in the case  ofabsolute  discretion,  particularly  in	 the  case  of	 newapplicants,  as	 more  often than not it  will	have  to  beexercised  on the basis of surmises, gossip or	information,which may be false or at any rate untested.  Lastly, by thisunwarranted search for an undisclosed policy in the crevicesof  the	 statute,  this Court will not only  be	 finding  anexcuse to resuscitate an invalid law but also be encouragingthe making of laws by appropriate authorities in  derogationof fundamental rights.The  provisions	 of ss. 47 and 48(3) of the  Motor  VehiclesAct,  1939  (IV	 of  1939), bring out  in  bold	 relief	 thedistinction between the exercise of a discretion to issue  alicence	 and  the  imposition of conditions  in	 a  licence.Section	 47 enjoins on the Regional Transport  Authority  inconsidering  an application for a stage carriage  permit  tohave  regard  to  the matters enunciated  in  that  section.Section	 48(3) enables the Regional Transport  Authority  toattach	to the permit the conditions detailed in  that	sub-section.  While the former section regulates the exercise159of  the	 discretion  of	 the  Regional	Transport  Authorityissuing	 a  permit, the latter describes the nature  of	 theconditions  to be inserted in the permit.  These  provisionsno doubt cannot be invoked to construe the provisions of  s.39 of the Act, but we are referring to them only to show thelegislative  practice in such matters and to  emphasize	 thefact that the scope of the discretion to issue a licence andthat  of  the power to impose conditions in  a	licence	 aredifferent.   Therefore, on a true construction of the  plainwords  of  the	statute	 we  cannot  hold  that	 any  policyreasonably  capable  of controlling the	 discretion  of	 theCommissioner has been laid down.Even  if the two conditions can be read into the first	partof  s. 39, the arbitrariness is writ large in the manner  ofexercising the so-called guided discretion.  In this contextit is not necessary to come to a definite conclusion on	 thequestion  whether the discretion is judicial  or  executive,for  whatever  be the nature of the discretion	it  must  betested	 from  the  standpoint	of  reasonableness  of	 therestrictions imposed on a person's right to do business.   Acitizen	 of  India,  for  the  purpose	of  eking  out	 hislivelihood, seeking to do an extensive business of an eatinghouse,	applies	 to  the Commissioner  for  a  licence,	 forwithout	 that licence he cannot do business, and if he	doeshe  will  be liable to prosecution.   The  Commissioner	 canreject the application on two grounds, namely, (1) from	 hisantecedents and present conduct it would be unreasonable  tothink that the petitioner would keep good behaviour, and (2)the Commissioner is not satisfied that the petitioner  wouldbe  able  to  prevent drunkenness  and	disorder  among	 thepersons	 frequenting or using the eating house.	  Admittedlythis  order  is made without giving any	 opportunity  to  anapplicant to prove that he would satisfy both the tests laiddown  by s. 39 of the Act.  The Commissioner is not  legallybound to give any reasons for his refusal to give a licence.Even if reasons are given, there is no machinery for gettingsuch  an  order revoked or vacated.  The  section  does	 notimpose	a  duty	 on  the  Commissioner	to  give  reasonableopportunity to an160applicant  to  clear his character or to  disprove  any	 un-warranted  allegations made against him or to prove that  hewould satisfy both the tests laid down by s. 39 of the	Act.Nor does the section provide for an appeal against the orderof  the	 Commissioner  to  an  appropriate  authority.	 Thesuggestion  that  the  authority is a high  officer  in	 thepolice department and that he can be relied upon to exercisehis  discretion	 properly  does not appeal  to	us  for	 tworeasons,  namely,  (1) as we have already pointed  out,	 theConstitution  gives  a guarantee for the  fundamental  rightagainst the State and other authorities; and (2) the  statusof  an officer is not an absolute guarantee that  the  powerwill never be abused.  Fundamental rights cannot be made  todepend	solely upon such presumed fairness and integrity  ofofficers  of  State,  though it may be a  minor	 element  inconsidering   the  question  of	 the  reasonableness  of   arestriction.   Therefore, it is clear to our mind  that	 theexercise  of the power also suffers from a statutory  defectas  it is not channelled through an  appropriate  machinery.We have, therefore, no hesitation to hold that s. 39 of	 theAct infringes the fundamental right of the petitioner  underArt. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution both from substantive	 andprocedural aspects.The  next question is whether a mandamus will issue  againstthe Commissioner.  The Commissioner admittedly has  launchedcriminal  proceedings  against	the  petitioner	 under	 theprovisions of the Act for not taking out a licence under  s.39  of	the Act.  As we have held that s. 39 of the  Act  isconstitutionally void, a writ of mandamus will issue againstthe  Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, directing him not  totake any further proceedings against the petitioner for	 nottaking out a licence under the provisions of the Act.BY  COURT.  In accordance with the opinion of the  majority,this Petition is dismissed with costs.161