PETITIONER:PIPRAICH SUGAR MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:PIPRAICH SUGAR MILLS MAZDOOR UNION.DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/10/1956BENCH:ACT:Industrial Dispute-Definition-Claim in dispute arising priorto  closure  of industry-Government, if competent  to  issuenotification  for adjudication subsequent to  such  closure-Discharge of workmen on closure of industry and discharge onretrenchment-Distinction--Award	   of	 compensation	 fortermination  of	 service  on  closure,	if  permissible-U.P.Industrial  Disputes  Act (U.P. XXVIII of 1947), ss.  2,  3-Industrial Disputes Act (XI V of 1947), S. 2(k).HEADNOTE:The appellant company could not work its Mills to full capa-city  owing  to	 short	supply of  sugar-cane  and  got	 thepermission  of	the  Government to sell	 its  machinery	 butcontinued  crushing cane under a lease from  the  purchaser.The  workmen's Union in order to frustrate  the	 transactionresolved to go on strike and communicated its resolution  tothe  company.  There wag correspondence between the  partiesin course of which the company offered to pay to the workmen25  per cent. of the profits of the sale on  condition	thatthe  strike  notice  must  immediately	be  withdrawn.	 Theworkmen	 did  not  fulfill the condition  and  made  certaincounter-proposals.  The company insisted that the  conditionmust  first be fulfilled before the counter-proposals  couldbe  considered and renewed its offer.  Although the  workmendid  not  actually go on strike, they did not  withdraw	 thestrike notice, and did not co-operate with the management inthe  dismantling and delivery of the machinery to  the	pur-chaser,	 with the result that the company lost heavily.	  Onthe  expiry  of the lease and closure of the  industry,	 theservices of the workmen were duty terminated by the  companyon  March  21, 1951.  The workmen  thereafter,	claimed	 theshare  of  profits  on the basis of the offer  made  by	 thecompany	 in the correspondence and the dispute was  referredto  the	 Industrial Tribunal for adjudication  by  the	U.P.Government  by	a  notification	 under	s.  3  of  the	U.P.Industrial Disputes Act of 1947.  The Tribunal held that thecompany was bound by the offer it had made and awarded a sumof Rs. 45,000 to the workmen as representing their share  ofthe profits.  On appeal the award of the Industrial Tribunalwas  affirmed  by  the Labour Appellate	 Tribunal.   It	 wascontended  on  behalf  of the  appellant  company  that	 thenotification  was  ultra vires, and the	 reference  and	 theaward  void  in consequence and that there  having  been  noconcluded agreement between the parties, it was not bound topay.Held, that the definition of an industrial dispute containedin  s. 2(k) of the Industrial Disputes Act XIV of  1947	 andadopted	 by the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act XXVIII of	1947contemplated the					873existence  of an industry and a subsisting  relationship  ofemployer  and employee between the parties  and,  therefore,there  could be no industrial dispute within the meaning  ofthose  Acts  where  the industry had been  closed,  and	 theclosure was real and bona fide, if the dispute arose on suchclosure, or thereafter, if that could be conceived.Section	 3 of the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act of 1947	onlyrequired that there must be an industrial dispute before theGovernment  could make a reference under that section  arid,consequently, in the instant ease where the claim in disputehad arisen, if at all, prior to the closing of the industry,the   Government   was	 fully	competent   to	 issue	 thenotification.Indian	Metal  and Metallurgical Corporation  v.  IndustrialTribunal, Madras (A.I.R. 1953 Mad. 98) and E. N.  PadmanabhaAyyar  v.  The	State  of  Madras  ([1954]  1  L.L.J.  469),approved.Messrs Burn and Co. Ltd., Calcutta v. Their Workmen,  (CivilAppeal	No.  325  of 1955, decided  on	October	 11,  1956),referred to.In  the	 instant  case,	 however, as  the  findings  of	 theTribunal  were	inconsistent  and  conflicting,	 the   courtexamined  the  correspondence  and  held  that	it  did	 notestablish  that there was a concluded agreement between	 theparties	 whereby the workmen could be entitled to any  shareof  the	 profits and, consequently, the award  made  by	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal must be sot aside.Nor  was the award sustainable as one for  compensation	 fortermination  of	 the services of workmen on closure  of	 theindustry  as such discharge was different from discharge  onretrenchment, which implied the continuance of the  industryand  discharge only of the surplusage, and the workmen	werenot entitled either under the law as it stood on the day  oftheir -discharge or even on merits to any compensation. Employees   of	 Messrs	 India	Reconstruction	 CorporationLimited, Calcutta v. Messrs India Reconstruction CorporationLimited,  Calcutta  ([1953] L.A.C. 563)	 and  Messrs  BenettColeman	 & Company Ltd. v. Their Employees,  ([1954]  L.A.C.24), distinguished and disapproved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 247 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated July 21, 19 53  ofthe Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, Third Bench, Lucknowin Appeal.  No. Calcutta 44 of 1952.G.   G. Mathur, for the appellant.H.   J. Umrigar, amicus curiae for the respondent,8741956.  October 23.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AYYAR  J.-The appellant is a  limited  Company,which had been carrying on business in crushing sugarcane ata place called Pipraich in Gorakhpur District from the	year1932.	In 1946 it decided to expand its business, and	withthat  object,  sold its old machinery which had	 a  crushingcapacity  of 160 tons per day, and purchased a new one	with650 tons capacity.  The new plant was installed in 1947, andit actually started working in 1948-49.	 During this period,the  sugar  industry was passing through a crisis  owing  toshortage  of sugarcane, and in consequence,  the  Governmentassumed	 control  of its production and supply.	  The  quotawhich was allotted to the appellant's Mill proved too  smallto  its	 being worked profitably, with the  result  that  in1948-49	 and  1949-50  the Company  sustained  losses  whichaccording to the appellant came to Rs. 2,67 042-7-4.   Afterseveral	 unsuccessful attempts at setting a  larger  supply,the  management	 wrote to the Government on  May  11,  1950,either to increase their quota or to permit them to sell theMills.	In October, 1950, the Government granted  permissionfor  the  sale	of the plant  and  machinery,  and  pursuantthereto, the management sold them to a Madras party.  As thecrushing season was then on, the appellant obtained from thepurchaser  a  lease  of the Mills  for	the  current  seasonagreeing to deliver possession thereof on the termination ofthe  lease.  It should be mentioned that the  appellant	 wasalso carrying on negotiations with the purchaser, for itselfdismantling  the machinery and erecting it at Madras  for  alump  consideration,  expecting	 to  perform  the   contractthrough its own workmen.When  the  workmen became aware of the	agreement  of  sale,their  reaction	 to it was thoroughly  hostile,	 and  actingthrough their union, the respondent herein, they decided  toprevent	 the  transaction going through, as  otherwise	theywould  be thrown out of employment.  With that object,	theymoved the875Government to cancel the permission granted to the appellantfor the sale of the Mills, and they also passed a resolutionon December 26, 1950, to go on strike from January 12, 1951,and  communicated  the same to the appellant.  This  led  tocorrespondence	between	 the  parties, and as  that  is	 thefoundation of the claim for compensation put forward by	 therespondent and awarded by the Tribunal, it becomes necessaryto set it out with sufficient fulness.	On January 3,  1951,the  Managing  Director offered through the Manager  of	 theMills,	to  allot  25 per cent. of the profit  on  the	saletransaction  with  the	Madras party on	 certain  terms	 andsubject	 to the condition "that the notice of strike  shouldbe withdrawn at once and today, so that arrangement of	workcould be made".	 To this, the reply of the Union on  January5, 1951, was as follows:"With  reference  to  the assurance given  by  the  ManagingDirector, communicated by your goodself to us under your No.975 dated 4th January 1951, asking us to withdraw the noticeof  strike, we regret to inform you that our fight  is	withthe  Government,  which is not solved with this	 only.	 Ourmembers	 are bent upon keeping the Sugar mills here  at	 anycost,  either  by strike, satyagrah, etc.,  or	through	 anyother means guided by our federation, otherwise there is  noassurance of employment of thousands of creatures".Then  the letter proceeded to take exception to some of	 theterms, and finally wound up by stating that the workmen werewaiting for their President Kashinath Pandey to advise	themin the matter.	Replyingto  the objections raised by the respondent to some  of	 theterms,	the  management wrote on January 8,1951,  that	theywere   ready  to  reconsider  them,  but  insisted  on	 thewithdrawal  of	notice of strike as "the chief	point".	  OnJanuary	 9,1951,  Kashinath  Pandey came  to  Pipraich,	 anddiscussed the matter with the management, and following uponit,  the General Manager wrote to the respondent on  January10,  1951, that "in case the strike notice was withdrawn  atonce  he would accede to the following points raised by	 theUnion", and then the points were set down.  The876letter concluded by stating that the amount of	compensation"will  not be less than a lac".	 The respondent	 replied  tothis  on the same day that the workers were waiting for	 the"final order" of Kashinath Pandey in the matter, and assuredthe  management	 that "in the meantime the  strike  was	 notcoming	off from the 12th".  After this, the  appellant	 didnot  hear from the respondent, the strike also did not	takeplace,	and  the crushing went on till the end	of  January,1951,  when  the season came to an end.	 One of	 the  pointsthat arises for our determination in this appeal is  whetheron  this correspondence there was a concluded.	and  bindingagreement that the appellant should pay 25 per cent. of	 theprofits on the sale transaction to the workmen.To continue the narration, the lease having expired with thecrushing season, the purchaser came over to Pipraich to takedelivery of the Mills and to arrange for the machinery beingdismantled  and removed to Madras for being  erected  there.The appellant who, as already stated, was negotiating to getthe dismantling done for a lump consideration found that itsworkmen	 were as hostile to it as ever, and refused to	helpin the work.  To adopt the language of the respondent in itswritten	 statement  "they declined out of sentiment  to	 digtheir own graves".  After fruitless attempts at getting themto  co'operate in dismantling the machinery, the  managementput up the following notice on February 28, 1951:"The workers of Pipraich.  Sagar Mills Ltd. should know thatwe  have sold our Mill to Madras party under the  permissionof  the Government.  The party has arrived for	dismantling.Under  the terms of agreement, we are bound to help them  inthis  work.  So the workers should know that we can do	thisfavour	that  we can take contract of dismantling  here	 anderection in Madras and keep the workers engaged and  requestthe  purchasers for providing them in their concern.   Henceit is notified that workers who are not ready to  co-operatethey  should consider themselves to be discharged  from	 1stMarch 1951.  Fifteen days' notice is served on the  workers.Those who877create	obstructions will be deprived of benefit,,  promisedto them".But the Union could not reconcile itself to the prospect  ofthe  Mills  being shifted, and on March	 4,  1951  KashinathPandey wrote a letter to the Government threatening to go onhunger	strike,	 if  the  Mills	 were  to  be  shifted	fromPipraich.   The workmen were thus in no mood to	 accept	 theterms  contained in the notice dated February 28, 1951,	 andso, the management had to issue further notice on March	 14,1951 in the following terms:"Whereas the workers have already been notified that we havesold our entire plant to a Madras party who have arrived  totake charge of the Machines and whereas we have to hand overthe  plant from 15-3-1951 to the purchasers and	 thus  therewill  be  no work for our workers and  whereas	the  MazdoorUnion,	has  already refused our suggestion  to	 engage	 theworkers	 in the work of dismantling and erection at  Madras.Now  in	 pursuance  of our notice  dated  28-2-1951,  it  isnotified  that	the following workers have  been  dischargedfrom  the services since 1-3-1951 subject of course  to	 thepayment	 of 15 days wages.  The workers are hereby asked  totake their wages of 15 days on the 15th and 16th instant".It  appears from a notice dated March 16, 1951, sent by	 theappellant  to  the respondent, that after the  notice  datedMarch	14,  1951,  was	 issued,  Kashinath  Pandey  had   adiscussion  with  the management, as a result of  which	 thedate of termination of service of, the workers was  extendedfrom  the  15th to 21st March pending the  decision  of	 theGovernment   on	 the  "future  programme  of  the   Pipraichfactory", the workmen agreeing on their part to "take up thedismantling  of	 the  Mill after the said  date".   But	 theGovernment  declined by its letter dated March 21, 1951,  tointerfere with the sale of the machinery, and in  accordancewith  the  understanding reached above, the  workers  shouldhave  co-operated  with	 the appellant	in  dismantling	 themachinery  from March 21.  But they declined to do  so,	 andthereupon,  acting  in	accordance with	 its  notices  datedFebruary 28, 1951,114878and March 14, 1951, the management duly discharged them.  Inview  of  the  inability of the appellant  to  take  up	 thecontract,  the	purchaser entered into	direct	negotiationswith  the  workmen, and on 1-4-1951 concluded  an  agreementwith them for dismantling the machinery.  The net result wasthat the appellant lost a contract on which, as admitted  bythe  respondent, it would have earned a profit of  at  leastRs.  2 lakhs.  The workers., having taken the benefit  of  adirect	contract  with	the purchaser  for  dismantling	 themachinery, next turned their attention to the appellant, andon  the	 basis	of the letters dated January  3,  1951,	 andJanuary	 10,  1951, sent a notice to it on April  19,  1951,asking	for  distribution among the workers of the  "25	 percent labour-share of the profits on sale of machinery".	  Byits  letter dated June 19, 1951, the  appellant	 repudiated.the claim, and stated:"Then  we  also refer you to our notice dated  27-2-1951  inwhich  we  appealed to the labour to cooperate. with  us  sothat  we  might	 take the contract of  dismantling  here  atPipraich and erection at Etikoppaka and said definitely thatthose  who  do	not co-operate	should	consider  themselvesdischarged.  This would have given us a good saving to	meetthe demand of the labour, but as you in spite of our  appealand  notice refused to co-operate, we had to suffer a  heavyloss, for which you are directly responsible".Thereafter,  the  respondent moved the	Government  to	takeaction	in the matter, and the result was that	on  November16,1951,  the U. P. Government issued a	 notification  undersection	 3  of the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act  XXVIII  of1947,  hereinafter  referred to as the	Act,  referring	 thefollowing  dispute  to the adjudication	 of  the  IndustrialTribunal:"Whether  the  services	 of workmen, if so  how	 many,	wereterminated  by	the concern known as  Pipraich	Sugar  MillsLtd.,  Pipraich, District Gorakhpur, without  settlement  oftheir  due claims and improperly; and if so, to what  reliefare the workmen concerned entitled?"By its award dated February 28,1952, the Indus-879trial Tribunal held firstly that the closure of the businessand  the  sale of the machinery by the	appellant  was	bonafide,  as it had been continuously incurring losses and	 thesupply position of sugarcane held out no immediate prospectsof  improvement,  that the conduct of the workmen  had	beenthroughout  unfair  and	 such  as  to  disentitle  them	  tocompensation  but that the promise contained in the  lettersdated  January	3 and 10, 1951, to pay 25 per cent.  of	 theprofits	 realised by the sale of the Mills, was	 binding  onthe  management.  It further held, repelling the  contentionof  the appellant, that the notification dated November	 16,1951,  was competent, notwithstanding that at that date	 thebusiness  had been closed.  The Tribunal then  proceeded  toascertain  the profits made by the appellant on its sale  ofthe  Mills, and held that a sum of Rs.	45,000	representingthe  25	 per  cent. of the net profits was  payable  to	 theworkmen.  The management appealed against this decision	 butthe  same was confirmed by the Labour Appellate Tribunal  byits order dated July 21, 1953.	The matter now comes  beforeus.  in	 appeal	 under	art.  136.   As	 the  appeal  raisedquestions   of	importance,  and  as  the   respondent	 wasunrepresented we requested Mr. Umrigar to assist us, and  weare  indebted  to  him for  his	 learned  and  comprehensiveargument.Two  contentions have been urged in support of	the  appeal:(1) The notification dated November 16, 1951, referring	 thedispute	 to the adjudication of the Industrial	Tribunal  isultra vires, and the reference and the award therein are  inconsequence void; and (2) there was no concluded or  bindingagreement  by the appellant to pay the workmen any share  ofprofits	 in the sale transaction and the award is  thereforebad on the merits.Taking	the  first contention, the provision  of  law  underwhich the impugned notification dated November 16, 1951, wasissued	by the State is section 3 of the Act, which runs  asfollows:"If in the opinion of the State Government, it is  necessaryor  expedient  so to do for securing the  public  safety  orconvenience, or the maintenance of880public order or supplies and services essential to the, lifeof the community, or for maintaining employment, it may,  bygeneral or special order, make provision--(d)  for referring any industrial disputes for	conciliationor adjudication in the manner provided in the order".An  "industrial	 dispute",  as defined in  s.  2(k)  of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act XIV of 1947-and by force of  section2,  that definition applies to the Act"means any dispute  ordifference  between  employers	and  employees,	 or  betweenemployers and workmen, or between workmen and workmen, whichis  connected with the employment or non-employment  or	 theterms of employment or with the conditions of labour, of anyperson".  Now, the contention of the appellant is that it isa  condition precedent to the exercise by the State  of	 itspower  under  s.  3  of the Act	 that  there  should  be  anindustrial  dispute,  that  there  could  be  no  industrialdispute	 according  to this definition, unless	there  is  arelationship  of employer and employee; that in the  presentcase,  as the appellant sold its Mills, closed its  businessand discharged the workmen on March 21, 1951, paying to themin  full  whatever was due in accordance with  the  standingorders. there was thereafter no question of any relationshipof  employer  and employees between  them  that	 accordinglythere  was  no	industrial  dispute  at	 the  date  of	 thenotification on November 16, 1951, and that it was thereforeincompetent.   Reliance	 was  placed  in  support  of	thisposition   on	the   observation  in	Indian	 Metal	 andMetallurgical Corporation v. Industrial Tribunal,  Madras(1)that  the definition of an "industrial dispute"	 presupposesthe continued existence of the industry, and on the decisionin  K.	N. Padmanabha Ayyar v. The State of  Madras(2)	thatthere  could  be  no industrial dispute	 with  regard  to  abusiness, which was not in existence.It  cannot  be	doubted that the entire scheme	of  the	 Actassumes that there is in existence an industry,(1) A.I.R. 1953 Mad. 98, 102.(2) [1954] 1 L.L.J. 469.881and  then  proceeds on to provide for  various	steps  beingtaken,	when a dispute arises in that industry.	  Thus,	 theprovisions of the Act relating to lock-out, strike, lay off,retrenchment, conciliation and adjudication proceedings, theperiod	during	which  the awards are to be  in	 force	havemeaning	 only if they refer to an industry which is  runningand not one which is closed.In Messrs Burn and Co., Ltd., Calcutta v. Their	 Workmen(1),this   Court  observed	that  the  object  of	all   labourlegislation was firstly to ensure fair terms to the workmen,and  secondly  to  prevent disputes  between  employers	 andemployees,  so	that  production  might	 not  be   adverselyaffected  and the larger interests of the public, might	 notsuffer.	 Both these objects again can have their fulfillmentonly  in  an  existing and not a dead  industry.   The	viewtherefore  expressed  in  Indian  Metal	 and   MetallurgicalCorporation v. Industrial Tribunal, Madras (supra) and K. N.Padmanabha  Ayyar v.  The State of Madras (supra)  that	 theindustrial dispute to which the provisions of the Act  applyis  only  one which arises out of an  existing	industry  isclearly	 correct.   Therefore, where the business  has	beenclosed	and it is either admitted or found that the  closureis  real and bona fide, any dispute arising  with  referencethereto	 would,	 as held in K. N. Padmanabha  Ayyar  v.	 TheState  of  Madras (supra), fall outside the purview  of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act.  And that will a fortiori be so, ifa  dispute  arises if one such can  be	conceived-after	 theclosure of the business between the quondam employer and em-ployees.In the light of the principles stated above, we must examinethe nature of the dispute which is the subject-matter of thereference under the impugned notification.  The claim of theworkmen	 is that the promise made by the management  in	 itsletters	 dated January 3, 1951, and January 10, 1951,  is  abinding	 agreement and that they are entitled to be paid  inaccordance  therewith.	 Now,  if this	contention  is	wellfounded, the dispute relates to a claim which arose (1) Civil  Appeal No. 325 of 1955, decided on	October	 11,1956.882while the industry was in existence and between persons	 whostood  in  the relationship of employer and  employees,	 andthat  would clearly be an industrial dispute as	 defined  inthe  Act.  But it is argued for the appellant that even	 so,the   'notification  dated  November  16,  1951,  would	  beincompetent  as	 the industry had been	closed	before	thatdate,  and there was therefore no relationship	of  employerand  employee  at that point of time.  In other	 words,	 thepower of the State to make a reference under section 3	willdepend, according to the appellant, not only on the  disputehaving	arisen in an existing industry but further,  on	 thecontinued  existence  of that industry on the -date  of	 thenotification.	We do not find anything in the	language  ofsection	 3  of	the Act to warrant the	imposition  of	thisadditional  limitation on the power of the State to  make  areference.   That  section only requires, apart	 from  otherconditions,  with  which we are not  concerned,	 that  thereshould	be an industrial dispute before there can be a	ref-erence,	 and  we have held that it would  be  an  industrialdispute	 if it arises out of an existing industry.  If	thatcondition  is  satisfied, the competence of  the  State	 fortaking	action under that section is complete, and the	factthat  the industry has since been closed can have no  effecton it.	Any other construction would, in our opinion, resultin  serious  anomalies and grave injustice.   If  a  workmanimproperly  dismissed  raises  an  industrial  dispute,	 andbefore	action	is taken by the Government the	industry  isclosed,	 what happens to the right which the Act  gives	 himfor appropriate relief, if the Act vanishes into thin air assoon  as the industry is closed?  If the contention  of	 theappellant  is correct, what is there to prevent an  employerwho  intends, for good and commercial reason, to  close	 hisbusiness  from indulging on a large scale in  unfair  labourpractices, in victimisation and in wrongful dismissals,	 andescaping  the  consequences  thereof  by  closing  down	 theindustry?  We think that on a true construction of s. 3, thepower  of the State to make a reference under  that  sectionmust be determined with reference not to the date,on which883it  is made but to the date on which the right which is	 thesubject-matter of the dispute arises, and that the machineryprovided  under the Act would be available for	working	 outthe rights which bad accrued prior to the dissolution of thebusiness.It was next argued that even on this view, the	notificationdated  November	 16, 1951, was incompetent inasmuch  as	 themanagement had offered by its letter dated January 3,  1951,to  pay the workmen 25 per cent. of the profits on the	saletransaction  only  on April 30, 1951, and the right  to	 theamount thus accrued to the workmen only after the closure ofthe business on March 21, 1951.	 But this argument  proceedson  a misapprehension of the correct position on the  facts.The true scope of the promise contained in the letter  datedJanuary	 3, 1951, is that the workmen acquired thereunder  aright in praesenti to 25 per cent. of the profits, but	thatthe amount became payable only on April 30, 1951, the reasonobviously  being that it could be precisely determined	onlyafter  the transaction was completed.  In this view, as	 theclaim  for  share of profits arose on January 3,  1951,	 andJanuary	 10,  1951,  when  the	industry  was  working,	 thereference   dated  November  16,  1951,	 would	 be   valid,notwithstanding	 that the business was closed on  March	 21,1951.That brings us on to a consideration of the second question,as  to whether there was a concluded agreement	binding	 theappellant  to pay 25 per cent. of the profits in.  the	saletransaction to the workmen.  The Tribunal has answered it inthe  affirmative,  and	its  finding  was  accepted  by	 theAppellate  Tribunal  as, being one of fact, it	had  to	 be,under  section	7  of  the  Industrial	Dispute	  (AppellateTribunal)  Act	No.  XLVIII of 1950.  It is  argued  by	 Mr.Umrigar	 that following the usual practice of this Court  inspecial appeals not to disturb findings of fact by Tribunalsunless	there were exceptional grounds therefore  we  shouldnot  interfere with the finding of the	Industrial  Tribunalthat  there was a concluded and enforceable agreement.	 Butour  difficulty	 is  that the Tribunal	has  spoken  in	 twovoices, and has given inconsistent884and  conflicting  findings, and it has	consequently  becomenecessary  for us to determine which of its findings  shouldbe accepted as supported by materials.We start with the letter dated January 3, 1951, wherein	 themanagement made an offer to pay 25 per cent. of the  profitsof  the sale transaction to the workmen.  It  was  expresslysubject	 to the condition that the strike should  be  calledoff  "at once and today".  That was not done.  On the  otherhand,  the respondent made certain counter-proposals in	 itsletter dated January 5, 1951, and the management replied  onJanuary 8, 1951, that it would reconsider its terms providedthe strike notice was withdrawn.  Thus, the offer  containedin  the letter dated January 3, 1951, was not  accepted	 andlapsed.	  Then on January 10, 1951, the	 management  renewedits  offer  subject again to the condition that	 the  strikenotice	was  withdrawn at once.	 The  respondent  passed  noresolution  withdrawing the notice, and in its	reply  datedJanuary	 10, 1951, it made it clear that it was waiting	 forKashinath Pandey for it to come to a final decision'.  Therewas no further communication from the Union.  We do not	 seebow on this correspondence it could be held that there was aconcluded  agreement  between the parties, and that  is	 theview  which the Tribunal itself took of it when it  observedthat  "no  final agreement could be arrived  at........	 andconsequently the management served a notice on 28th February1951".	 But then, it went on to observe that, in fact,	 theworkmen	 did  not  go on strike on  January  12,  1951,	 andcontinued  in service till they were served with  notice  ofdischarge on February 28, 1951, that that was  considerationfor the promise made by the agreement, which must  thereforebe  taken  to  have become a term of service,  and  that  inconsequence  "the promise of the management as contained  inthe  letters  of  3rd and 10th January 1951,  is  a  bindingagreement   under   which  the	workmen	 are   entitled	  tocompensation  for  termination	of  their  services  on	 theclosure	 of the Mills".	 This argument rests on a  confusionof  thought.  The question whether there was  consideration.for the promise made by the885management  in its letters dated January 3, and January	 10,1951  arises only if the offer contained in the letters	 hadbeen  accepted	by the respondent, so as to  ripen  into  anagreement.  And if there was no concluded agreement  betweenthe  parties,  as  the Tribunal itself had  held,  then	 thefurther	  question  as	to  whether  it	 was  supported	  byconsideration  would  not  arise, nor  would  there  be	 anyquestion of its becoming one of the terms of the service.It  was argued that though a formal  resolution	 withdrawingthe strike was not passed, in fact there was no strike,	 andthat must be taken to be acceptance of the offer by conduct.That would not be acceptance as required by the	 'appellant,and that alone would be sufficient to reject the  contentionof  the respondent.  But this contention must fail  even  onthe  merits.   In  its letter dated January  10,  1951,	 therespondent,  while  stating that the strike was	 not  takingplace  on the 12th, made it clear that this was pending	 thefinal  decision	 of  the  Union.  That	clearly	 is  not  anacceptance  of the offer.  The matter does not rest  there.,The  object of the strike was, it should be remembered,	 notanything directly connected with the terms of employment butsomething collateral to it. It was to prevent the Mills frombeing removed from Pipraich to Madras.	When the  managementoffered to part with 25 per cent. of the profits of the saletransaction, its object was clearly to disarm the oppositionof  the	 workmen  and to get the  machinery  dismantled	 anddelivered to the purchaser peacefully.	Did the workmen everagree  to  it?	As late as March 5, 1951,  Kashinath  Pandeywrote to the Government that if the Mills were to be shiftedfrom Pipraich, he would go on hunger strike.  Even after theGovernment  had	 informed  him that the sale  could  not  beinterfered  with,  the workmen did not co-operate  with	 themanagement  in	the dismantling of the	machinery  with	 theresult	that the appellant had to give up the contract	withreference thereto and to lose Rs. 2 lakhs profits.  To crownall, the workmen having successfully prevented the appellantfrom getting the contract for dismantling, themselves886entered into it directly with the purchaser and	 undoubtedlyintercepted  a part, if not the whole, of the profits  whichthe  appellant would have earned.  It is impossible to	holdon these facts that there was a concluded agreement  betweenthe  parties  binding the appellant to give  the  workmen  ashare of the profits of the sale transaction.It was next contended by Mr. Umrigar that even if there	 wasno concluded agreement by the management to pay the  workmena  share of profits on the sale transaction, it	 would	havebeen  open to the Tribunal to have awarded compensation	 forthe termination of their services, treating it as  retrench-ment,  and  that the 'award of compensation  of	 Rs.  45,000which was what the management itself had suggested, might besustained on that footing.  This contention assumes that thetermination of the services of workmen, on the closure of  abusiness, is retrenchment.  But retrenchment connotes in itsordinary  acceptation  that  the business  itself  is  beingcontinued  but	that a portion of the staff  or	 the  labourforce  is  discharged as surplusage and the  termination  ofservices  of all the workmen as a result of the	 closure  ofthe  business  cannot  therefore be  properly  described  asretrenchment.  It is 'however contended by Mr. Umrigar	thatthe   definition  of  retrenchment  in	section	  2(oo)	  ofthe  Industrial Disputes Act XIV of 1947 is wide  enough  toinclude	 discharge consequent on the, closure  of  business,and  that under section 25-F, compensation could be  awardedtherefore  Our attention has been invited on behalf  of	 theappellant  to  the  decision in J. K.	Hosiery	 Factory  v.Labour	Appellate  Tribunal(1),	 where	it  was	 held	thatretrenchment as defined in section 2(oo) does not comprehenddischarge  on  the  closure of	business,  but	Mr.  Umrigarcontends  that	it  is erroneous.  We  do  not	consider  itnecessary  to  decide this question, as	 the  definition  of"retrenchment" in section 2(oo) of Act XIV 1947 and  section25-F  therein  were  inserted  by  the	Industrial  Disputes(Amendment)  Act  No.  XLIII of 1953, and we  have  held  inMessrs Burn and Co., Ltd., Calcutta v.(1)  A I.R. 1956 All. 498.887Their  Workmen	(supra) that this Act has  no  retrospectiveoperation.  The rights of the parties to the present  appealmust  therefore be decided in accordance with the law as  itstood on March 21, 1951, when the workmen were discharged.It  was next contended, on the strength of the decisions  inEmployees   of	Messrs	India	Reconstruction	 CorporationLimited, Calcutta v. Messrs India Reconstruction CorporationLimited, Calcutta(1) and Messrs Benett Coleman & Company Ltdv.  Their Employees(2) that even prior to the  enactment  ofAct XLIII of 1953, the Tribunals had acted on the view	thatretrenchment included discharge on closure of business,	 andhad awarded compensation on that footing and that the  awardof  the Tribunal in the present case could be  supported  inthat  view  and should not be disturbed.   In  Employees  ofMessrs India Reconstruction Corporation Limited, Calcutta v.Messrs	India Reconstruction Corporation  Limited,  Calcutta(supra), the Tribunal observed at P. 576 as follows:"Ordinarily  retrenchment  means discharge from	 service  ofonly the surplus part of the labour force but in the case ofclosure	 the  whole  labour force  is  dispensed  with.	  Insubstance   the	 difference  between  closure	and   normalretrenchment  is  one  of degree only.	As in  the  case  ofretrenchment  so in the case of closure the workmen are	 notresponsible for closing their jobs.  In both the cases, whatis called compensation by way of retrenchment relief  shouldbe admissible".We  are	 unable to agree with  these  observations.   Thoughthere	is   discharge	of  workmen  both  when	  there	  isretrenchment and closure of business, the compensation is tobe awarded under the law, not for discharge as such but	 fordischarge   on	retrenchment,  and  if,	 as   is   conceded,retrenchment  means in ordinary parlance, discharge  of	 thesurplus,   it  cannot  include	discharge  on'	closure	  ofbusiness.   Moreover,  there was no question of	 closing  ofbusiness   in  Employees  of  Messrs  India   ReconstructionCorporation Limited, Calcutta v. Messrs India ReconstructionCorporation(1) (1953] L.A.C. 563.(2) [1954] L.A.C. 24.888Limited,  Calcutta (supra), as what happened there was	thatone  of	 the  units of the company, that  at  Calcutta,	 wasclosed	and  that would be a case of retrenchment,  and	 theobservations  quoted above were purely obiter.	 They  were,however,  quoted  and  followed without	 discussion  by	 theAppellate  Tribunal in Messrs Benett Coleman & Company	Ltd.v. Their Employees (supra), which further remarked atp. 27:"Thus whether the closure was justified or not, the  workmenwho   have   lost  their  jobs	would  in  any	 event	 getcompensation.  If it was not bona fide or not justified,  itmay be that the measure of compensation would be larger thanif it was otherwise".For  the  reasons  given above, we cannot  assent  to  theseobservations.  It, should be mentioned that in Messrs BenettColeman	 and Company Ltd. v. Their Employee  (supra),  therewas  no closure of business, but winding up of the  Calcuttaunit  by  a  newspaper	publishing  company  which  had	 itsheadquarters  at Bombay.  We must accordingly overrule	thiscontention also.  We should add that the Tribunal was of theopinion that, apart from agreement, the workmen should	not,in  view of their conduct, be awarded compensation,  and  weentirely  agree with it.  And as we have found	against	 theagreement,  we	must allow this appeal, and  set  aside	 theaward  of compensation to the workmen made by the  Tribunal.In the circumstances, the parties will bear their own  coststhroughout.Appeal allowed.889