PETITIONER:MAHARAJA PRAVIR CHANDRA BHANJ DEO  KAKATIYA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:18/11/1960BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.GUPTA, K.C. DASDAYAL, RAGHUBARAYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  775		  1961 SCR  (2) 501 CITATOR INFO : E	    1971 SC 530	 (208,261)ACT:"Ruler"-Recognition   by  President-Whether   ex-Ruler	 forpurposes  outside  the	Constitution-Maufidar,	Meaning	 of-Constitution of India, Art. 366(22)-Madhya Pradesh Abolitionof  Proprietary	 Rights (Estates, Mahals,  Alienated  Lands)Act, 1950 (M.  P. 1 of 1951), S. 2(m).HEADNOTE:The appellant was the Ruler of the State of Baster which waslater  integrated with the State of Madhya Pradesh.  He	 wasrecognised by the President as a Ruler under Art. 366(22) ofthe  Constitution.   The respondent  resumed  certain  landsbelonging   to	the  appellant	under  the  Madhya   PradeshAbolition of Proprietary Rights (Estates, Mahals,  AlienatedLands) Act, 1950.  The appellant contended that he was stilla Ruler and not an ex-Ruler and as such did not come  withinthe definition of "proprietor" given in the Act.Held, that the appellant was an ex-Ruler for the purposes ofthe Act and was within the class of persons who were by nameincluded  in the definition of 'proprietor' and	 was  withinthe  scope of the Act.	Factually the appellant was  an	 ex-Ruler.	 He was a Ruler for the purposes of the privy  purseguaranteed to him.  There was nothing in Art. 366(22)  whichrequired  a  court  to treat such a person as  a  Ruler	 forpurposes  outside the Constitution.  Further, the  appellantwas  also a maufidar in respect of the lands acquired  whichwere exempt from the payment of rent or tax.  The expression"maufidar" was not necessarily confined to a grantee from  aState or a Ruler of a State; he could be the holder of	landwhich was exempted from payment of rent or tax.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 198 of 1954.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated October 16,  1952,of the former Nagpur High Court in Misc.  Petn.; No. 1231 of1951.M.   S. K. Sastri, for the appellant.H.   L. Khaskalam, B. K. B. Naidu and I. N. Shroff,for the respondent.645021960.  November 18.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyIMAM,  J.-This is an appeal from the judgment of the  NagpurHigh  Court dismissing the appellants petition	under  Arts.226  and 227 of the Constitution of India.  The	 High  Courtcertified  under  Art. 132(1) of the Constitution  that	 thecase  involved	a  substantial question of  law	 as  to	 theinterpretation	of  the	 Constitution.	 Hence	the  presentappeal.The  appellant was the Ruler of the State of Baster.   Afterthe  passing  of  the Indian  Independence  Act,  1947,	 theappellant  executed  an	 Instrument  of	 Accession  to	 theDominion  of  India  on August	14,  1947.   Thereafter,  heentered	 into  an  agreement  with  the	 Dominion  of  Indiapopularly known as "The Stand Still Agreement".	 On December15,  1947, he entered into an agreement with the  Governmentof  India  whereby  he	ceded the State	 of  Baster  to	 theGovernment  of	India  to be  integrated  with	the  CentralProvinces  and	Berar (now the State of Madhya	Pradesh)  insuch  manner as the Government of India thought	 fit.	Con-sequently  the Governments in India came to  have  exclusiveand  plenary  authority, jurisdiction and  powers  over	 theBaster State with effect from January 1, 1948.The  Legislature of the State of Madhya Pradesh	 passed	 theMadhya	Pradesh	 Abolition of Proprietary  Rights  (Estates,Mahals, Alienated Lands) Act, 1950 (Madhya Pradesh Act 1  of1951),	hereinafter referred to as the Act,  which  receivedthe  assent of the President of India on January  22,  1951.The  preamble of the Act stated that it was one	 to  providefor the acquisition of the rights of proprietors in estates,mahals,	 alienated  villages and alienated lands  in  MadhyaPradesh	 and to make provisions for other matters  connectedtherewith.   Under s. 3 of the Act, vesting  of	 proprietaryrights	in  the	 State Government  takes  place	 on  certainconditions,, mentioned in that section, being complied with.The definition of 'proprietor' is stated in s. 2 cl. (m) andit is"in relation to-503(i)  the Central Provinces, includes an inferior proprietor,a  protected  thekadar	or  other  thekadar,  or   protectedheadman;(ii) the  merged territories, means a maufidar including  anex-Ruler  of an Indian State merged with Madhya	 Pradesh,  aZamindar,  Ilaquedar,  Khorposhdar or  Jagirdar	 within	 themeaning	 of  wajib-ul-arz,  or	any  sanad,  deed  or  otherinstrument,  and  a gaontia or a thekadar of  a	 village  inrespect of which by or under the provisions contained in thewajib-ul-arz  applicable to such village the  maufidar,	 thegaontia, or the thekadar, as the case may be, has a right torecover rent or revenue from persons holding land in suchvillage;".The  definition	 of 'mahal' is stated in s. 2(j) and  it  is"mahal",  in relation to merged territories, means any	areaother  than  land in possession of a raiyat which  has	beenseparately  assessed  to  land revenue,	 whether  such	landrevenue	 be payable or has been released, compounded for  orredeemed in whole or in part;".Before	the High Court the appellant contended that  he	 wasstill  a Sovereign Ruler and absolute owner of the  villagesspecified  in Schedules A and B of his petition under  Arts.226  and 227 of the Constitution.  He urged that his  rightshad  been  recognized and guaranteed  under  the  agreementsentered	 into  by  him with the Government  of	India.	 Theprovisions of the Act, therefore, did not apply to him.	  Itwas further contended that the provisions of the Act did notapply to a Ruler or to the private property of a Ruler whichwas  not assessed to land revenue.  He relied on Art.  6  ofthe Instrument of Accession and the first paragraph of	Art.3 of the Merger Agreement.  The High Court held that if	 thepetitioner's  rights  under  Art. 6  of	 the  Instrument  ofAccession  and	Art.  3 of the	Merger	Agreement  had	beeninfringed  it was clear from the provisions of Art.  363  ofthe Constitution that interference by the courts was  barredin disputes arising out of these two instruments.  The	HighCourt was also of the opinion that Art. 362 of the Constitu-tion was of no assistance to the appellant.504After  referring to the definition of the word	'proprietor'in the Act, the High Court was of the opinion that the	word'maufidar'  in s. 2(m) of the Act had not been used  in	 anynarrow	or  technical sense.  A 'maufidar' was	not  only  aperson to whom a grant of maufi lands had been made but	 wasalso one who held land which was exempt from the payment  of"rent  or tax".	 It accordingly rejected the  contention  onbehalf	of  the	 appellant  that  the  word  'maufidar'	  isnecessarily  confined to a grantee from the State  or  Rulerand  therefore a Ruler could not conceivably be a  maufidar.The High Court also rejected the contention on behalf of theappellant  that	 as he was a "Ruler" within the	 meaning  ofthat  expression in Art. 366(22) of the Constitution he	 didnot  come within the expression 'ex-Ruler' as  contained  inthe  definition	 of the word 'proprietor' in the  Act.	 Theexpression  'Ruler'  as	 defined  in  Art.  366(22)  of	 theConstitution applied only for interpreting the provisions ofthe  Constitution.  The expression 'ex-Ruler' given  in	 theAct must therefore be given the ordinary dictionary meaning.According  to  Shorter Oxford  English	Dictionary,  'Ruler'means "one who, or that which, exercises rule, especially ofa   supreme  or	 sovereign  kind.   One	 who  has   control,management,  or head-ship within some limited sphere".	 TheHigh  Court  accordingly  took the view	 that  although	 theappellant did exercise such a rule in the past he ceased  toexercise  it  in his former Domain after the  agreements  ofaccession  and merger had come into operation.	 Accordinglythe appellant must be regarded as an ex-Ruler and as he	 wasalso  a maufidar he fell within the definition of  the	word'proprietor' in the Act.The  question whether the villages mentioned in Schedules  Aand  B	of  the	 petition under Arts. 226  and	227  of	 theConstitution  fell  in	any  of	 the  categories,  "Estates,Mahals,	 Alienated lands", was also considered by  the	HighCourt.	In its opinion they did not fall within the categoryof  Estates or Alienated lands but they did fall within	 thecategory of Mahals.  According to the definition of  'Mahal'in  s. 2(j) of the Act the same must be separately  assessedto land505revenue.   According  to  the appellant they  had  not	beenassessed  to land revenue but this was denied on  behalf  ofthe  State  of Madhya Pradesh.	The High Court	was  of	 theopinion that in these circumstances it was for the appellantto  establish that the villages in question had	 never	beenassessed  to  land revenue but no evidence had been  led  tothis effect.  On the contrary, according to the High  Court,it  would appear from the documents on the record  that	 thevillages  known as 'Bhandar villages' had been	assessed  toland revenue.  As the rest of the villages in Schedule A andthe villages in Schedule B, upto the date of the High  Courtjudgment, had not been recognized as the private property ofthe appellant by the Government of India as required by	 thesecond	and  third paragraphs of the Merger  Agreement,	 theappellant  could  not assert his ownership over	 them.	 TheHigh Court, accordingly, dismissed his petition under  Arts.226 and 227 of the Constitution.Two  questions in the main were urged before us (1)  whetherthe  appellant	is a proprietor within the meaning  of	thatexpression  in	the  Act and (2)  whether  the	villages  inquestion  came	within the definition of  the  word  'mahal'contained  in  the Act.	 On behalf of the appellant  it	 hadalso been urged that the Act could not defeat the rights  ofthe  appellant	guaranteed  under  Art.	 3  of	the   MergerAgreement.   It seems clear to us, however, that in view  ofthe  provisions	 of  Art. 363(1)  of  the  Constitution	 anydispute	  arising  out	of  the	 Merger	 Agreement  or	 theInstrument  of	Accession is beyond the	 competence  of	 thecourts to enquire into.	 The High Court rightly decided thispoint against the  appellant.With  reference to the first point we would  first  considerwhether the appellant is an ex-Ruler for the purposes of theAct.   That  he is so factually cannot be denied,  since  heceded his State to the Government of India to be  integratedwith  the  Central  Provinces and Berar (now  the  State  ofMadhya	Pradesh) in such manner as the Government  of  Indiathought	 fit.  He further ceded to the Government' of  Indiafull  and  exclusive authority, jurisdiction and  powers  inrelation506to  the	 governance  of his State when he  agreed  that	 theadministration	of  that State would be transferred  to	 theGovernment  of India as from January 1, 1948.  The  questionis   whether  his  recognition	for  the  purposes  of	 theConstitution  as Ruler by virtue of the provisions  of	Art.366(22) of the Constitution of India continues his status asa  Ruler  for purposes other than  the	Constitution.	Art.366(22) states:"  "Ruler" in relation to an Indian State means the  Prince,Chief or other person by whom any such covenant or agreementas  is referred to in clause (1) of article 291 was  enteredinto  and  who	for  the time being  is	 recognised  by	 thePresident as the Ruler of the State, and includes any personwho for the time being is recognised by the President as thesuccessor of such Ruler".Article 291 refers to the privy purse payable to Rulers.  Itstates:"Where	under any covenant or agreement entered into by	 theRuler  of any Indian State before the commencement  of	thisConstitution, the payment of any sums, free of tax, has beenguaranteed  or assured by the Government of the Dominion  ofIndia to any Ruler of such State as privy purse-(a)  such  sums	 shall be charged on, and paid out  of,	 theConsolidated Fund of India; and(b)  the sums so paid to any Ruler shall be exempt from	 alltaxes on income."Article 291 refers to any covenant or agreement entered intoby the Ruler of any Indian State before the commencement  ofthe Constitution.  The covenant or agreement referred to  inthis Article certainly includes the Instrument of  Accessionand  the  Merger  Agreement.   The  effect  of	the   MergerAgreement  is clearly one by which factually a Ruler  of  anIndian	State ceases to be a Ruler but for the	purposes  ofthe  Constitution  and for the purposes of the	privy  purseguaranteed, he is a Ruler as defined in Art. 366(22) of	 theConstitution.	There is nothing in the provisions  of	Art.366(22) which requires a court to recognise such a person asa  Ruler  for  purposes outside the  Constitution.   In	 ouropinion, the High Court rightly held that507the  appellant was an ex-Ruler and that Art. 366(22) of	 theConstitution  did not make him a Ruler for the	purposes  ofthe Act.  As the appellant was an 'ex-Ruler', he was  withinthe class of persons who were by name specifically  includedin  the	 definition of 'proprietor'  and  therefore  clearlywithin the scope of the Act.That  the appellant was not only an ex-Ruler but a  maufidarappears to us to be clear.  The ordinary dictionary  meaningof maufi is "Released, exempted, exempt from the payment  ofrent  or tax, rent free" and maufidar is "A holder of  rent-free  land,  a grantee".  It was common ground in  the	HighCourt  that  the villages in question were exempt  from	 thepayment	 of  rent or tax.  In our opinion,  the	 High  Courtrightly took the view that the expression 'maufidar' was notnecessarily confined to a grantee from a State or a Ruler ofa State.  A maufidar could be a person who was the holder ofland which was exempted from the payment of rent or tax.  Inour  opinion,  the  appellant  certainly  came	within	 theexpression  'maufidar'	besides	 being an  ex-Ruler'  of  anIndian State merged with Madhya Pradesh.It  is, however, contended on behalf of the  appellant	thatthe most important part of the definition was the concludingportion	 where it was stated that in the case of a  maufidarhe must be a person who by or under the provisions containedin the wajib-ul-arz applicable to his village, had the rightto recover rent or revenue from persons holding land in suchvillage.  It was contended that even if the appellant was  amaufidar,  there was nothing to show that with reference  toany village held by him it was entered in the  wajib-ul-arz,that he had a right to recover rent or revenue from  personsholding	 land in such village.	In the petition under  Arts.226  and 227 of the Constitution, filed by the appellant  inthe High Court, it was nowhere asserted that even if he	 wasregarded  as a maufidar it was not entered in the  wajib-ul-arz with respect to any of his maufi villages that he had  aright  to recover rent or revenue from persons holding	landin such villages.  From the judgment of the High508Court  it  would appear that no such argument  was  advancedbefore	it.   In the application for a	certificate    underArt.  132(1) of the Constitution we can find no	 mention  ofthis.  In the statement of the case filed in this Court alsothere is no mention of this fact.  There is thus no materialon  the	 record	 to  establish that  the     appellant	as amaufidar  had  no  right to recover  rent  or  revenue	frompersons holding land in his villages.  The burden was on theappellant  to  prove this fact which he never  attempted  todischarge.   It	 is  impossible	 therefore  to	accept	thiscontention  on behalf of the appellant raised for the  firsttime  before  us in the course of the  submissions  made  onbehalf of the appellant.Regarding the second point arising out of the definition  of'Mahal', the High Court definitely found that the petitionerhad  given  no evidence to establish that  the	villages  inquestion  were	not  assessed  to  land	 revenue.   On	 thecontrary,  at least with reference to the  Bhandar  villagesdocuments on the record showed that these villages had	beenassessed  to land revenue.  Since it was a question of	factwhether	 the  villages had been assessed  to  land  revenue,which  was denied on behalf of the State of Madhya  Pradesh,the  High  Court  rightly held that the	 contention  of	 theappellant in this respect could not be accepted.  As for theother villages, in Schedules A and B of the petition of	 theappellant  under Arts. 226 and 227 of the  Constitution	 theHigh  Court, in our opinion, rightly held that the  petitionwas  not  maintainable as these villages had  not  yet	beenrecognised  by	the  Government	 of  India  as	the  privateproperty of the appellant.In  our	 opinion,  the	appeal	accordingly  fails  and	  isdismissed with costs.				      Appeal dismissed.509