PETITIONER:R.P. KAPUR AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:SARDAR PRATAP SINGH KAIRON  AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/10/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR 1117		  1961 SCR  (2) 143 CITATOR INFO : F	    1980 SC 326	 (12)ACT:Criminal  Procedure-Investigation of  offences-Investigationby   Deputy  Superintendent  of	 Police	 under	 orders	  ofInspector-General of Police  Validity  Allegations againstChief  Minister--Necessity of affidavit by  Chief  Minister-Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898), ss. 154,	156,157 and 551-Constitution of India, Art. 14.HEADNOTE:One  S sent a complaint against the first petitioner to	 theChief  Minister	 who sent it to	 the  Additional  Inspector-General	 of  Police who in his turn sent it  to	 the  DeputySuperintendent	of  Police C.I.D., with	 the  endorsement  "Register  a  case and investigate personally ".	 The  DeputySuperintendent of Police drew up a first information report.There  were  also three other cases instituted	against	 thepetitioners  or some of them, which were being	investigatedinto  by  the  C.I.D.  Police  officers.   The	 petitionerscontended  that the respondents had violated the  provisionsof  ss. 154, 156 and 157 of the Code of	 Criminal  Procedureand  had  adopted a procedure unknown to law  and  had	thussingled out the petitioners for unequal treatment in  viola-tion of Art. 14 of the Constitution.Held, that the procedure adopted was authorised by S. 551 ofthe  Code  and in the first case the  Inspector-General	 hadpower to deal with the complaint and to direct investigationof the same by the Deputy Superintendent of Police.  Even ifthe  reason given for the Inspector-General making over	 theinvestigation  to the Deputy Superintendent of	Police	thatthe  case was of a technical nature was not correct, it	 wasopen  to  him to make over the investigation to	 the  DeputySuperintendent	of  Police  in view of	the  status  of	 thepetitioners.  The procedure adopted in the other three caseswas also not illegal, and there was no unequal treatment  ofthe  petitioners  in  the  matter  of  the  institution	  orinvestigation  of the cases so as to entitle them to  invokein aid Art. 14 of the Constitution.H.   N.	 Rishbud  and  Inder Singh v. The  State  of  Delhi,[1955]	1 S.C.R. 1150, King Emperor v. Nilkantha, I.L.R.  35Mad.  247, Pulin Bihari Ghosh v. The King, I.L.R.  [1950]  1Cal. 124 and Textile Traders Syndicate Ltd. v. The State  ofU. P., A.I.R. 1959 All. 337, referred to.Since  allegations were made against the Chief	Minister  bythe  petitioners,  he owed a duty to the Court	to  file  anaffidavit stating what the correct position was so far as heremembered it.144JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 59 of 1960.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of-Fundamental Rights.A.   S. R. Chari, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji,  RameshwarNath and P. L. Vohra, for the Petitioners.S.   M. Sikri, Advocate-General for the State of Punjab,  H.S.  Doabia,  Additional Advocate-General for  the  State  ofPunjab,	 M. S. Punnu, Deputy Advocate-General for the  Stateof Punjab and D. Gupta, for the Respondents.1660.  October 28.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K.	  DAS  J.-This	is  a  writ  petition.	 The   threepetitioners before us are (1) R. P. Kapur, a member of was  servingas a Commissioner in the State of Punjab, (2)	  SheilaKapur, his wife, and (3) Kaushalya Devi, his  mother-in-law.They have moved this Court under Art. 32 of the Constitutionfor the enforcement of their rights under Arts. 14 and 21 ofthe  Constitution, which rights they say have been  violatedby  the	 respondents  who are the State	 of  Punjab,  SardarPratap	Singh  Kairon, Chief Minister thereof,	and  certainofficials,  police, administrative and magisterial who	havebeen conducting, or are connected with, the investigation orinquiry into a number of criminal cases. instituted  againstthe petitioners.  We shall refer to some of these  officialslater  in this judgment in relation to the part	 which	theyhave played or are playing in those criminal cases.Briefly	  stated  the  case  of	 the  petitioners  is	thatpetitioner  no. 1 had the misfortune to incur the  wrath  ofthe  Chief  Minister of the State.  It is alleged  that	 theChief  Minister was annoyed with petitioner no.	 1,  becausethe  latter did not show his readiness to give evidence	 forthe  prosecution in a case known as the Karnal	Murder	Case(later	referred to as the Grewal case) in which one  D.  S.Grewal,	 then  Superintendent of Police,  Karnal,  and	someother  police officials were, along with others, accused  ofsome  serious offences.	 That case was transferred  by	thisCourt to a Special145Judge,	at  Delhi,  who	 commenced  the	 trial	sometime  inMay/June  1959.	  Petitioner  no. 1 was	 at  the  time	Com-missioner of Ambala, and he alleges that he was told by	 theChief  Minister	 that  it was proposed to  cite	 the  DeputyCommissioner  and the Deputy Inspector-General of Police  asprosecution  witnesses in the said case and it would  be  inthe  fitness  of things that petitioner no.  1	should	alsofigure	 as  a	prosecution  witness;  to  this	  suggestionpetitioner no. 1 gave a somewhat dubious reply to the effectthat his appearance as a prosecution witness might or  mightnot   help   the  prosecution.	 Another  reason   for	 thedispleasure  of	 the  Chief  Minister,	as  alleged  in	 thepetition, related to certain orders which petitioner no.   1had  passed as Commissioner, Patiala Division, in a  revenuecase  known  as the Sangrur case.  We shall  presently	givemore  details of that case, but it is enough to	 state	herethat  the allegation is that in that case petitioner  no.  1passed certain orders, involving the disposal of  propertiesworth  about Rs. 9 lacs, which were adverse to one  SurinderKairon,	 son of the Chief Minister.  It is stated that as  aresult	of  the	 displeasure  which  petitioner	 no.  1	 badincurred  for  the two reasons mentioned  above,  a  specialprocedure  was adopted in the investigation of the  criminalcases instituted against the petitioners; and some new caseswere  started  through the instrumentality of the C.  1.  D.Police with a view to subject the petitioners to  harassmentand  persecution.  The substantial allegation, to quote	 thelanguage  of the petition, is that " a special procedure  orrather	a technique has been devised for  circumventing	 themandatory  provisions  of  the	law  (meaning  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure) as regards the petitioners, two of	whomare  ladies  and who are being dragged	about  unnecessarilybecause they happen to be related to petitioner no.  1".  Itis  stated that there has been a deliberate  departure	fromthe normal and legal procedure in the matter of	 institutionand investigation of criminal cases against the petitioners-a  departure  said  to be the result of " an  evil  eye	 andunequal hand " which the petitioners allege constitutes146a  denial  of  the right of equal  protection  of  the	lawsguaranteed  to them under Art. 14 of the Constitution.	 Thespecial	 procedure  or technique of  which  the	 petitionerscomplain  is said to consist of, several items, such as	 (1)entertainment  of  a criminal complaint	 personally  by	 theChief  Minister; (2) institution of complaints by the C.  1.D. police; (3) registration of first informations after suchcomplaints   ;	 (4)  investigations  in  advance   of	 thecomplaints;  (5)  investigation by specially  chosen  (hand-picked as learned Counsel for the petitioners has suggested)C.I.D. officials, not necessarily of high rank, who have  nopower  to  investigate;	 (6) the arrangement  of  a  specialC.I.D.	 squad	to  "  unearth	something  "   against	 thepetitioners, etc.  In the petition four criminal cases	werereferred  to as illustrative of the special procedure,	saidto  be unwarranted by law, adopted against the	petitioners,and in a supplementary petition filed on June 9, 1960,	somemore  cases  were  referred to.	 After we  had	conveyed  tolearned	 Counsel  for  the petitioners	that  we  could	 notconsider the supplementary petition which the respondent hadno  opportunity of meeting, the supplementary  petition	 waswithdrawn.   Therefore,	 we do not propose to  say  anythingabout  the cases which are referred to in the  supplementarypetition.  The four cases mentioned in the original petitionare :-(1)  F.I.R.  no.  304 of 1958, given by	 one  M.  L.  Sethi,referred to hereinafter for brevity as Sethi's case ;(2)  F.I.R.  no. 39 of 1959, instituted on the complaint  ofone M. L. Dhingra, called hereinafter as Dhingra's case;(3)  F.I.R. no. 135 of 1959, instituted on the complaint  ofthe  Civil Supply Officer, Karnal, the accused in this	casebeing the State Orphanage Advisory Board of which petitionerno.   I was Vice-President at the relevant time	 and  KartarSingh, farm manager of Kaushalya Devi, called the  Orphanagecase; and(4)  F.I.R. no. 26 of 1960, instituted on the  complaint  ofDaryao Sing, D.S.P., C.I.D., Karnal, (one of the  respondentpolice officials) in which there are three147accused	 persons  including  petitioner no.  1,	 called	 forbrevity the Ayurvedic Fund case.We may say at once that we are not concerned with the meritsof  any	 of the aforesaid cases : that is a  question  whichwill fall for consideration if and when the cases are  triedin Court.  Therefore, nothing said in this judgment shall beconstrued  as  affecting  the  merits  of  the	cases.	 Twoquestions  have	 been posed before us in relation  to  thesecases:	 one  is  if  in  the  matter  of  institution	 andinvestigation of these cases a special procedure unknown  tolaw  has been adopted; and the other is if  the	 petitionershave been singled out for unequal treatment in administeringthe  law  relating to the institution and  investigation  ofcriminal  cases in the State.  The two questions are in	 onesense  connected, for if a special procedure unknown to	 lawhas  been  adopted against the petitioners, that  by  itselfwill be a denial of the right of the equal protection of the'laws.	 Learned Counsel for the petitioners  has,  however,argued	the  second question somewhat independently  of	 thefirst  question,  and  he has submitted	 that  even  if	 theprocedure  adopted against the petitioners is  warranted  bylaw,  it  is a departure from the normal procedure  and	 hasbeen adopted with " an evil eye and unequal hand " so as  toput the petitioners to harassment and persecution.  We shallconsider  both these questions in relation to the  procedureadopted in the four cases referred to above.It  is	necessary  to  state  that  the	 petition  has	beencontested  by  the  respondents.   The	Chief  Minister	 hashimself made no affidavit in respect of the allegations madeagainst him ; but affidavits in reply have been made by	 theChief  Secretary  and  the  Home  Secretary  to	 the  PunjabGovernment  and some of the respondent officials.  To  theseaffidavits we shall advert later in somewhat greater detail.We shall also have something to say about the failure of theChief Minister to make an affidavit.  It is enough to  statehere that the respondents have seriously contested both	 theallegations  made on behalf of the petitioners, namely,	 (1)that a special procedure unknown to law was148adopted	 against them or (2) that the procedure adopted	 wasmotivated  by  "  an evil eye and unequal hand "  so  as  topersecute and harass the petitioners.  The respondents	havesaid that the procedure adopted was warranted by law and theemployment of the C. 1. D. officials in the investigation ofthe  cases  against the petitioners was due to	the  specialnature	of the cases.  The respondents have  also  contestedthe correctness of the allegation that petitioner no. 1	 hadincurred the displeasure of the Chief Minister on account ofthe two reasons stated in the petition.	 In brief, the claimof  the respondents is that there has been no  violation  ofthe rights of the petitioners guaranteed under Arts. 14	 and21, and there are no grounds for interference by this  Courtunder  Art. 32 of the Constitution.  It has been  stated  onbehalf	of  the	 respondents that in the  two  cases  calledSetbi's	 case and Dhingra's case, the petitioners had  movedthe High Court without success for quashing the	 proceedingsand  in	 Sethi's case, an appeal to this Court	against	 theorder  of  the High Court also proved unsuccessful.   It  isalso pointed out that a petition made by petitioner no. 1 inthe  High Court for proceeding by way of contempt  of  courtagainst	 the Chief Minister on some of the  allegations	 nowraised	or allegations similar in nature, was  dismissed  inlimine	and the learned Advocate-General of the	 Punjab	 hastaken  us through the order of the High Court in respect  ofsome of the allegations made.Having stated the respective cases of the parties before us,we  shall proceed now to a more detailed examination of	 theprocedure  adopted in the four cases instituted against	 thepetitioners.  But before we do so, it is necessary to say  afew  words  about Grewal's case and Sangrur case  which	 arestated to furnish the reasons why petitioner no. 1  incurredthe  displeasure of the Chief Minister.	 It is alleged	thatin Grewal's case petitioner no. 1 was asked to give evidencefor  the  prosecution,	but he gave a  dubious	reply  whichdispleased  the	 Chief	Minister.  It  is  worthy  of  note,however, that the trial in Grewal's case began in  May-June,1959; Sethi's complaint was made in149December, 1958 and Dhingra's in February, 1959.	  Obviously,those  two cases could not be the result of any	 refusal  bypetitioner no.	1 to give evidence in Grewal's case.  On May28,  1959,  petitioner no.  1 wrote to the  Chief  Secretaryabout Sethi's case and Dhingra's case, but no allegation wasmade   therein	against	 the  Chief  Minister.	  What	 thepetitioner  wanted  then was that an opportunity  should  begiven  to  him to explain his position.	 On  June  9,  1959,petitioner  no. 1 again wrote to the Chief  Secretary  aboutthe  complaints	 of  Sethi and Dhingra-again  there  was  noallegation  against the Chief Minister.	 On June  29,  1959,petitioner  no.	  1 filed two petitions in the	Punjab	HighCourt  for  quashing  the proceedings in  Sethi's  case	 andDhingra's case; in this petition an allegation was made thatpowerful influences were operating against the petitioner  "to harm him and debar him officially " and Sethi's case	 andDhingra's case were the result of such influences, but therewas no specific mention of Grewal's case and of any  requestto the petitioner to give evidence in that case.  It was forthe  first  time  on July 20, 1959, when  the  petition	 forcontempt  proceedings was filed that a	specific  allegationagainst	 the Chief Minister was made in paragraphs 35 to  37thereof (this is annexure 1 to the present petition).	Thispetition was dismissed in limine, the High Court saying thatit  was	 not prima facie satisfied that the  allegation	 wasmade  out.  We do not think that petitioner no.	 1 has	beenable  to advance his case any further in spite of  the	factthat  the Chief Minister has made no affidavit, a matter  towhich we shall advert later.As  to	the Sangrur case, that was also referred to  in	 thepetition of July 20, 1959, and the High Court did not acceptthe  allegation of petitioner no. 1. What happened  in	thatcase  was this.	 The late Sardar Mukan Sing of Sangrur	lefttwo  widows, Sardarni Pritam Kuar and Sardarni Pavitar	KaurSardarni  Pavitar Kaur had three daughters one of  whom	 wasmarried to Surinder Singh Kairon, son of the Chief Minister.The Sangrur estate was in charge of the Court of Wards, thatis, the Financial Commissioner, Punjab.	 On June15019, 1958, the Court of Wards decided to release the   estateafter  partitioning the immovable property between  the	 twowidows.	  At  one time a question arose as  to	whether	 theimmovable  properties should be partitioned into five  equalshares	for the two widows and three daughters or  into	 twoshares	only  for the two widows.  Sometime  before  May  6,1959,  it  was decided that the partition would	 be  of	 twoshares only and thereafter a detailed mode of partition	 wasagreed to between the parties.	This is clear from the	noteof  petitioner no.  1 dated May 6, 1959.   Thereafter  therewas  no more dispute left, and the case of  petitioner	no.1that he was arrested on July 18, 1959, because- he  dictatedan  adverse order some days previously which had been  typedbut  not  yet  signed  does not prima  facie  appear  to  becorrect,   apart  altogether  from  the	  question   whetherpetitioner  no. 1 was acting merely as the  channel  betweenthe Deputy Commissioner, and the Financial Commissioner, thelatter	being  the only authority competent  to	 pass  finalorders in the matter.We  have,  therefore,  come  to	 the  conclusion  that	 thepetitioners  have  not established what they  have  alleged,namely,	 that  R.  P. Kapur, one  of  the  petitioners,	 hadincurred the displeasure of the Chief Minister by reason  ofwhat  happened	in  the Grewal case and	 the  Sangrur  case.Whether	  there	 were  other  reasons,	 administrative	  orotherwise,  for the displeasure of the Chief 'Minister is  amatter	which  is not germane to the present case.   In	 theaffidavits  filed before us some reference has been made  tothe past record of R. P. Kapur.	 We consider it	 unnecessaryto refer to that record ; firstly , because it is not  rele-vant  to the case before us, and secondly because  we  thinkthat  it is not fair to refer to the confidential record  ofan officer unless the circumstances in which certain adverseremarks were made are known.We  proceed now to consider the four criminal cases  pendingagainst the petitioners or some of them, in relation to	 thetwo  points  urged:  (1)  whether  in  the  institution	 andinvestigation of these cases a special procedure unknown  tolaw has been adopted and (2)151if  the	 petitioners  have  been  singled  out	for  unequaltreatment   in	administering  the  law	 relating   to	 theinstitution  and  investigation	 of criminal  cases  in	 theState.The first two cases, namely, Sethi's case and Dhingra's caseneed be dealt with at some length.  Sethi's case started  ona  complaint which it was said was sent direct to the  ChiefMinister.    Four  material  allegations  about	  fraudulentmisrepresentation  were	 made  in that	complaint.   It	 wasalleged that R. P. Kapur had fraudulently misrepresented  toSethi  that a particular piece of land which he had sold  toSethi 'had been purchased by him at Rs. 10 per square  yard;that  he had fraudulently concealed from Sethi the  pendencyof   certain   proceedings  before  the	  Land	 AcquisitionCollector,  Delhi, and of the acquisition of the  said	landunder  s.  17  of  the relevant Act;  that  he	had  made  afraudulent  misrepresentation  as  regards  the	 scheme	  ofhousing	 with  regard  to the area in which  the  land	lay.Though the complaint was dated December 10, 1958, it appearsto  have been made over to the Additional Inspector  Generalof  Police on December 23, 1958.  The  Additional  InspectorGeneral	 of Police then appears to have passed an  order  tothe  following	effect: " Register" a case  and	 investigatepersonally  ". This was addressed to Sardar Hardayal  Singh,D.   S.	  P.  Thereupon	 Sardar	  Hardayal   Singh,   DeputySuperintendent of Police, C.I.D., Amritsar, appears to	havedrawn up a first information report.  The original complaintwhich Sethi filed has not been produced before us.  What wasproduced before us was a carbon copy and on that carbon copywas the order of the Additional Inspector General of  Policeto  which we have already made a reference.  The  allegationof the petitioners was that the original complaint had	beensent to the Chief Minister and the Chief Minister had passedcertain orders thereon.	 On behalf of the petitioners it wassuggested  that	 the original was not produced in  order  toconceal	 from the Court the orders which the Chief  Ministerhad  passed thereon.  We have stated earlier that the  ChiefMinister  had  filed  no  affidavit  in	 respect  of   theseallegations.   An  affidavit  has been filed  by  A.N.	HomeSecretary152to the Government but obviously he was not in a position  tosay  anything about the allegations made against  the  ChiefMinister.   We, therefore, proceed on the basis that so	 faras  Sethi's case is concerned, a complaint was made or	sentto  the	 Chief	Minister  who  thereupon  sent	it  to	 theAdditional Inspector General of Police who in his turn	sentit  to	Sardar	Hardayal  Singh,  Deputy  Superintendent  ofPolice, C. I. D., at Amritsar.	The short question before usis-does	 this amount to adopting a procedure unknown to	 lawor even to unequal treatment so as to attract Art. 14 of theConstitution ? Learned Counsel for the petitioners has takenus  through the relevant provisions in Part V, Chapter	XIV,of  the	 Code of Criminal Procedure and has  submitted	thatunder  s. 154 of the Code every information relating to	 thecommission  of	a cognizable offence should be given  to  anofficer	 in charge of a police station and under s. 156	 anyofficer in charge of a police station may, without the orderof  a  Magistrate, investigate any cognizable case  which  aCourt  having  jurisdiction over the local area	 would	havepower to inquire into or try under the provisions of ChapterXV  relating to the place of inquiry or trial.	He has	alsoreferred  to s. 157 under which the officer in charge  of  apolice	station, shall forthwith send a report of the  firstinformation to a Magistrate empowered to take cognizance  ofthe offence and shall proceed in person, or shall depute oneof his subordinate officers not being below such rank as theState Government may, by general or special order, prescribein  this behalf, to proceed to the spot to  investigate	 thefacts  and  circumstances of the case, and if  necessary  totake measures for the discovery and arrest of the  offender.It is contended that the provisions of ss. 154, 156 and	 157of  the	 Code  have been violated in the  case	against	 thepetitioners; and thus the petitioners have been subjected toa  special  procedure  unknown to law or, at  any  rate,  tounequal	 treatment, treatment different from that  of  otherpersons	 against whom informations of a	 cognizable  offenceape made.We are unable to accept these contentions as153correct.  First of all, s. 154, Code of Criminal  Procedure,does not say that an information of a cognizable offence canonly  be made to an officer in charge of a  police  station.That  section  merely  lays down,  inter  alia,	 that  everyinformation  relating  to  the commission  of  a  cognizableoffence, if given orally to an officer in charge of a policestation,  shall	 be reduced to writing by him or  under	 hisdirection, and be read over to the informant; and every suchinformation shall be signed by the person giving it and	 thesubstance  thereof shall be entered in a book to be kept  bysuch  officer  in  such form as	 the  State  Government	 mayprescribe  in  that behalf.  Section 156 gives power  to  anofficer in charge of a police station to investigate withoutthe order of a Magistrate any cognizable case which a Court,having jurisdiction in the local area etc. would have  powerto inquire into or try; sub-s. (2) of s. 156 lays down	thatno proceeding of a police officer in any such case shall  atany stage be called in question on the ground that the	casewas  one  which such officer was not  empowered	 under	thissection to investigate.	 There has been some argument beforeus  as	to the meaning of the expression " any such  case  "occurring  in sub-s. (2) of s. 156.  As we are	not  restingour  decision  on  sub-s. (2) of s. 156,  Code	of  CriminalProcedure,  we	consider  it unnecessary to  embark  upon  adiscussion as to the true scope and effect of sub-s. (2)  ofs.  156.   Section 157 of the Criminal Procedure  Code	laysdown  the procedure which an officer in charge of  a  policestation	 must  follow  where  information  of  a  cognizableoffence is made.  Now, there is another important  provisionin  the	 Code which is of great relevance in this  case	 andmust  be read.	That provision is contained in s. 551  whichis in these terms :"S. 551. Police officers superior in rank to an	 officer  incharge	of  a police station may exercise the  same  powers,throughout  the local area to which they are  appointed,  asmay  be exercised by such officer within the limits  of	 hisstation."The Additional Inspector General of Police to whom20154Sethi's	 complaint  was sent was, without  doubt,  a  policeofficer superior in rank to an officer in charge of a policestation.   Sardar Hardayal Singh, Deputy  Superintendent  ofPolice,	 C.I.D., Amritsar, was also an officer	superior  inrank  to  an officer in charge of a  police  station.	Boththese  officers	 could,	 therefore,  exercise  the   powers,throughout  the local area to which they were appointed,  asmight  be  exercised  by an officer in charge  of  a  policestation within the limits of his police station.  It is	 notdisputed  that	the jurisdictional area	 of  the  AdditionalInspector General of Police was the whole of the State.	  Asto  the jurisdictional area of the Deputy Superintendent  ofPolice,	 C.I.D., the contention on behalf of the  respondentState  is  that	 though	 he  was  posted  at  Amritsar,	 hisjurisdictional	area  extended over the	 whole	State.	 Thelearned Advocate-General for the respondent State has  drawnour  attention	to Police Rule 21.28 in	 the  Punjab  PoliceRules, 1934, Vol.  III, issued by and with the authority  ofthe State Government under ss. 7 and 12 of the Police Act (Vof   1861).    That  rule  lays	 down  that   the   CriminalInvestigation  Department has no separate  jurisdiction	 andthe  Deputy Inspector General of Police,  Criminal  Investi-gation	Department, may decide to take over the	 control  ofany  particular investigation himself or depute one or	moreof  his officers to work directly under the control  of	 theSuperintendent of Police of the district.  Police Rule 21.32enumerates some of the cases in which the assistance of	 theCriminal  Investigation	 Department may be  sought.   PoliceRule  25.14 says that the Criminal Investigation  Departmentis able to obtain expert technical assistance, and in  caseswhere  such  assistance is required the	 assistance  of	 theCriminal  Investigation Department may be obtained.  In	 theaffidavit made by Sardar Hardayal Singh, he has stated	thathe  was	 entrusted with the investigation  of  Sethi's	casebecause of its technical nature and also because his  sphereof  duty  as  a Gazetted Officer attached  to  the  CriminalInvestigation Department was the whole of the State in	viewof the memorandum no. 9581-H-51/7912 dated October15526,  1951.  That memorandum shows that the Deputy  InspectorGeneral,  C.I.D. and all gazetted officers of  the  CriminalInvestigation  Department have jurisdiction  extending	overthe  whole of the Punjab State.	 This is also  supported  bythe affidavit made by Shamshere Singh, Additional  InspectorGeneral of Police.  Learned Counsel for the petitioners	 haspointed	  out  that  Sethi's  case  involved  no   technicalquestions  and	the  ground  stated  in	 the  affidavits  ofShamshere Singh and Sardar Hardayal Singh is not, therefore,correct.   The question before us is not whether the  reasonfor which the investigation was made over to Sardar HardayalSingh is correct or not.  The question before us is, whetherin making over the investigation to Sardar Hardayal Singh  aspecial	 procedure unknown to law was adopted or the law  asto the investigation of cases was administered with an	evileye  or	 unequal  hand.	 If  the  police  officer  concernedthought that the case should be investigated by the C. 1. D.   even though for a reason which does not appeal  to	 us-itcannot	be said that the procedure adopted was illegal.	  Weare unable to agree with learned Counsel for the petitionersthat  any of these two contentions has been made out in	 thepresent	 case.	We are satisfied that the Inspector  Generalof  Police, C.I.D. had power to deal with Sethi's  complaintand had further power to direct investigation of the same bySardar	Hardayal Singh who as a police officer	superior  inrank  to  an  officer incharge of  a  police  station  couldexercise powers of an officer in charge of a police  stationin respect of the same.	 It cannot, therefore, be said	thatthe  procedure	adopted	 was unknown to	 law.	Nor  are  wesatisfied  that the procedure adopted was motivated  by	 anyevil  purpose,	though	we are not quite  impressed  by	 thereason	given  by Shamshere Singh or Sardar  Hardayal  Singhthat Sethi's case was of a technical nature and,  therefore,required the assistance of the C.I.D. Even if it was not  ofa technical nature, it was open to the Additional  InspectorGeneral of Police to make over the investigation to a DeputySuperintendent	of  Police  in view of	the  status  of	 thepetitioners.  In paragraph 31 of his affidavit156A.   N. Kashyap, Home Secretary, has said that the InspectorGeneral	 of  Police on receiving the  complaint	 from  Sethiordered on his own the registration of the case without	 anyorder or direction from the Chief Minister.  The correctnessof this statement has been very seriously commented on.	  Inthe absence of any affidavit from the Chief Minister and  ofthe original complaint, we have preferred to proceed in thiscase on the footing that the Additional Inspector General ofPolice	got the complaint from the Chief Minister  and	thenpassed	necessary orders thereon.  Even on that	 footing  weare  unable  to hold that there has been  any  violation  oflegal  procedure or that an unfair discrimination  has	beenmade against the petitioners.Learned	 Counsel for the petitioners has relied on   certainobservations  made by this Court in H. N. Rishbud and  InderSingh v. The State of Delhi (1).  The observations occur  atpage 1160 of the report and are to the effect that it is  ofconsiderable  importance  to  an  accused  person  that	 theevidence  collected  against  him  during  investigation  iscollected  under  the responsibility of	 an  authorised	 andcompetent  investigating officer.  These  observations	wereMade in a case where the question that fell for decision waswhether the provisions in s. 5(4) and the proviso to s. 3 ofthe Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (Act II of 1947)	 andthe  corresponding  s. 5A of the  Prevention  of  Corruption(Second	 Amendent)  Act,  1952	(Act  LIX  of  1952),	weremandatory or not.  It :was held that they were mandatory andan investigation conducted in violation thereof was illegal.It was also held that an illegality committed in the  courseof  an	investigation  did not	affect	the  competence	 andjurisdiction  of the Court for trial; but if any  breach  ofthe  mandatory pro- visions relating to	 investigation	werebrought to the notice of the Court at an early stage of	 thetrial,	the  Court  would have to consider  the	 nature	 andextent of the violation and pass appropriate orders for suchre.  investigation as might be called for.  We do not  thinkthat the observations made and the decision are of any(1)  [1955] (1) S.C.R. 1150.157assistance to the petitioners.	We have held that there	 hasbeen  no  violation  of	 any  mandatory	 provisions  as	  toinvestigation  in Sethi's case against the  petitioners	 andthe   investigation  procedure	followed  is   legal.	 Ourattention  has been drawn to King Emperor v. Nilkantha	(1).On  a  certificate  by the Advocate-General,  the  case	 wasconsidered by a Full Bench of the Madras High Court and	 oneof  the questions for decision was-" Is an Inspector of	 theCriminal  Investigation	 Department  an	 authority   legallycompetent to investigate the facts within the meaning of  s.157,  Evidence	Act  ? " The question was  answered  in	 theaffirmative  by the majority of judges, Abdur Rahim, J.	 andSundara	 Ayyar,	 J.,  dissenting.   In	the  course  of	 thearguments  before  their  Lordships, one  of  the  questionsmooted was whether Inspectors of the Criminal  InvestigationDepartment  were  appointed  to any local  area	 within	 thepurview of s. 551, Code of Criminal Procedure.	Some of	 theJudges held that the whole Presidency was their local  area;some held that that was not so.	 On the materials before us,we   have   no	hesitation  in	holding	 that	the   DeputySuperintendent of Police entrusted with the investigation ofSethi's	 case  bad  the	 necessary  authority  to  hold	 theinvestigation.	 The decision in Pulin Bihari Ghosh  v.	 TheKing(1) on which also some reliance has been placed does notappear to us to be in point: that was a case s.	  202 and s.156(3), Code of Criminal Procedure, and it   was  held	thatproceedings under s. 202 and investigation under rb.  156(3)could not proceed simultaneously; it was further held that adirection  under s. 156(3) could only be made to an  officerin  charge of a police station.	 No question arose there  ofthe  exercise of powers under s. 551, Code of Criminal	Pro-cedure,	 and  the  decision  does  not	establish  what	 thepetitioners  are seeking to establish in the  present  case.More  in point is the decision in Textile Traders  SyndicateLtd.  v.  State	 of  U. P. (3) where it	 was  held  that  anInspector of Police in the Criminal Investigation Departmentwas superior in rank to that of an(1) I.L.R, 35 Mad. 247.	      (2) I.L.R. [1950] 1 Cal. 124.(3) A.I.R. 1959 All. 337.158officer in charge of a police station and under s. 551, Codeof  Criminal Procedure, he could exercise the powers  of  anofficer in charge of a police station throughout the State.Turning	 now  to  Dhingra's  case,  the	 position  is  this.Admittedly  a complaint dated February 27, 1959, was sent tothe  Chief Minister with a covering letter in which  it	 wasstated that " R. P. Kapur had already started tampering withthe evidence and 1, therefore, request that orders be passedthat   the   Police  should  take  in	hand   investigationimmediately  and collect all material evidence ". The  ChiefMinister  wrote	 on this: " Inspector  General,	 Police,  issick.	Will Add1.  Inspector General please take  immediateaction	in  taking over papers from  Government	 departmentsconcerned  and the papers with Sri Dhingra.  Please  give  aprima  facie report." The Additional Inspector General	thenmade  the  following endorsement: "  Please  take  immediatenecessary  action.  Depute one of your officers	 to  contactSri  Dhingra  and  get	the  necessary	records	 from	him.Immediate  action may be taken to take over the record	fromthe various departments.  A case may be registered.  I	haveinformed Chief Secretary and he agrees with this." This	 wasaddressed  to the Deputy Inspector General, C.I.D., and	 thelatter wrote-" Case should be regis. tered and	investigatedby  Bir	 Singh, D.S.P., under your  supervision.   Immediatesteps  should  be taken to get the salient  records  of	 SriDhingra." This was addressed to Ujager Singh, Superintendentof  Police,  C.I.D. The case was then registered  by  SardarSampuran   Singh,  Inspector  of  Police,   Police   StationChandigarh,  and the investigation was in charge  of  SardarBir Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, C.I.D.The  legal position as to the institution of Dhingra's	caseand  its investigation is the same as in Sethi's case.	 Thelegal  sanction	 for  both  is	s.  551,  Code	of  CriminalProcedure,  and the reasons which we have given for  holdingthat the procedure followed in instituting and investigatingSethi's case is legally valid apply to Dhingra's case  also.On behalf of the159petitioners it has been submitted that the hand of the ChiefMinister  is  no longer concealed in  respect  of  Dhingra'scase.  It is pointed out that in 1959, a complaint is  madein respect of offences alleged to have been committed  aboutfive  years ago in 1954 and the Chief Minister, without	 anyenquiry whatsoever, says " Please give a prima facie report," and the same C.I.D. machinery is again set in rapid motionas in Sethi's case, and this at a time when Sethi's case waskept  " hanging as a sword " over the petitioners.   It	 hasbeen further submitted that the direction as to the  seizureof  papers was not justified in law, as the  Chief  Ministerhad  no legal power to give such a direc. tion.	 We  do	 notthink that these submissions establish what the	 petitionershave  to  establish  in	 order	to  succeed  on	 their	writpetition, namely, that in the institution of Dhingra's	caseand  its investigation, a procedure unknown to law has	beenfollowed  or that the petitioners have been singled out	 foran unfair and discriminating treatment.	 We do not know whatreasons	 led the Chief Minister to make the  endorsement  onthe  complaint	of  Dhingra as he did  and  why	 instead  ofreferring  the	complaint to the officer in  charge  of	 thepolice	station	 concerned,  a reference  was  made  to	 theAdditional  Inspector General or the Criminal  InvestigationDepartment.  These are matters within his special knowledge,and  he	 has chosen to throw no light  on  them.   ShamshereSingh has said in his affidavit that he dealt with Dhingra'scase  in  exercise  of	his powers under  s.  551,  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure.   Sardar  Bir Singh  has  said  in	 hisaffidavit that this case was also of a technical nature	 andso the investigation was entrusted to him.  As we have	saidin  Sethi's case this reason does not appear to us to  be  aconvincing  reason,  but the Police officers  concerned	 mayhonestly  have thought that the case should be	investigatedby the Criminal Investigation Department.  We are not calledupon to express any opinion on the merits of Dhingra's case,and all that we say now is that the petitioners have  failedto  establish either of their two contentions-(1)  that	 theprocedure  adopted was illegal, or (2) that the	 petitionerswere unfairly discriminated against.160We go now to the remaining two cases, the Orphanage Case andthe  Ayurvedic	Fund,  case.   One  was	 instituted  on	 thecomplaint of the Civil Supply Officer, Karnal, and the otheron  the statement of Daryao 'Sing, Deputy Superintendent  ofPolice, C. 1. D., Karnal.  The Orphanage case is against theOrphanage  Advisory Board of which R. P. Kapur was the	VicePresident  at  the  relevant time,  and	 Kartar	 Sing,	farmmanager	 of  Kaushalya	Devi.  It  related  to	the  allegedviolation of certain Control Orders in the matter of a brickkiln.	The Ayurvedic Fund case is against R. P.  Kapur	 andcertain	 other persons, who are not petitioners	 before	 us.It  alleged  criminal  breach of trust etc.  in	 respect  ofcertain	 funds in the hands of the persons accused  therein.As  we	are  not  deciding these  cases	 on  merits,  it  isunnecessary to give further details of the allegations	madein those cases.No  specific illegality has been brought to our notice	withregard to the institution of the Orphanage case except	someallegations  of high-handedness in the matter of seizure  ofrecords	 of  the Orphanage in spite of the  protest  of	 theGeneral	 Manager  of  the  Orphanage  and  some	 allegationsagainst	 Choudhuri Ram Singh, who was then Deputy  InspectorGeneral,  Ambala Range.	 These allegations, be they true  ornot,  do not establish any such illegality as would lead  usto quash the investigation.As  to	the  Ayurvedic Fund case, Daryao Sing  said  in	 hisaffidavit:" I say that the Audit Report contained details of  meddlingwith  Orphanage	 funds and of having made  payments  to	 oneKartar	Sing,  an employee of the petitioner  no.1  and	 theattorney of Shrimati Kaushalya Devi.  It appears that  therewas  excess  and  double  payment  of  funds.	There	werepurchases  of  timber  and  wood  without  calling  for	 anyquotations.   It disclosed the issue of Orphanage  funds  toMadhuban  Co-operative Society and that the  materials	likecement,	 iron and steel which were under control  were	alsoused  in the construction of private building of Shri  Kapurand  his  family and the use of such materials	went  up  to20,000 Rupees."161Here  again  we	 do  not  express  any	opinion	 as  to	 thecorrectness or otherwise of the allegations made.  All	thatneed  be said at this stage is that the institution  of	 thecase  is not illegal, nor is its investigation	vitiated  bydiscrimination.It is indeed true that the investigation of these cases	 hasbeen   entrusted  to  certain  officers	 of   the   CriminalInvestigation Department, whether for good reason or not  wecannot	say.  But that circumstance does not by itself	makethe  investigation  bad in law.	 The officers  can  exercisetheir powers of investigation under s. 551, Code of CriminalProcedure.  Daryao Singh, it may be stated, was an Inspectorof  the	 Criminal  Investigation Department  at	 Karnal	 andbecame	a  Deputy  Superintendent of Police, C.	 I.  D.,  inDecember, 1959.	 He also could exercise the powers under  s.551, Code of Criminal Procedure.For the reasons given above, we have come to the  conclusionthat  the  petitioners are not entitled to succeed  and	 thewrit  petition	must be dismissed, in the  circumstances  ofthis case there will be no order for costs.Before	parting with this case we consider it  necessary  tomake  some  observations with regard to a matter  which	 hascaused	us  some anxiety and concern.	Serious	 allegationshave been made against the Chief Minister in this case.	  Heis  a  party respondent and had notice	of  the	 allegationsmade.	In  Sethi's  complaint it was alleged  that  he	 hadpassed	certain orders on the original complaint, which	 wassent  to  the Additional Inspector General  of	Police	withthose orders.  The original complaint was not made availableto  us	on  the ground that it could  not  be  traced.	 TheAdditional Inspector General of Police said in his affidavitthat  on  receiving the complaint from Sri M. L.  Sethi,  heordered	 the investigation of the case without any order  ordirection from the Chief Minister.  He did not	specificallysay  if	 he  received the complaint  direct  from  Sethi  orthrough	 the  Chief Minister.  In Dhingra's case  the  ChiefMinister  passed  an order which might either mean  that  heordered the21162submission of a prima facie report or merely directed that areport	should be submitted if a prima facie case  was	madeout.   It is not clear why he ordered the seizure of  papersbefore even a prima facie report was given, in respect of anoffence	 said to have been committed five years ago.   Theseare  all matters on which the Chief Minister alone was in  aposition  to enlighten us. In view of the  allegations	madeagainst him, we consider that the Chief Minister owed a dutyto this Court to file an affidavit stating what the  correctposition was so far as he remembered it.  We recognise	thatit may not be possible for a Chief Minister to remember	 thecircumstances  in which a document pass through	 his  hands;there must be many papers which a Chief Minister has to dealwith  in the day to day business of administration.  If	 theChief Minister did not remember the circumstances, it  wouldhave  been  easy for him to say so.  If	 he  remembered	 thecircumstances,	he could have refuted the  allegations	withequal ease.  This is not a case where the refutation  shouldhave been left to Secretaries and other officers, who  couldonly  speak from the records and were not in a	position  tosay  why  the  Chief Minister passed  certain  orders.	 Thepetitioners   are  obviously  suffering	 from  a  sense	  ofgrievance that they have not had a fair deal.  We have	heldthat  there is no legal justification for that	grievance  ;but  in	 an  executive as well	as  judicial  administrationjustice	 must  not  only be done but  it  must	appear	thatjustice is being done.	An affidavit from the Chief Ministerwould have cleared much of the doubt which in the absence ofsuch an affidavit arose in this case.			 Petition dismissed.163