PETITIONER:THE LORD KRISHNA TEXTILE MILLS	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/12/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  860		  1961 SCR  (3) 204 CITATOR INFO : R	    1969 SC 983	 (3) R	    1972 SC1031	 (23,24) R	    1978 SC1004	 (9)ACT:Industrial   Dispute-Dismissal	of  workmen-Misconduct	 notconnected     with    pending	 dispute-Application	 forapproval--Jurisdiction of Tribunal-U. P. Industrial DisputesAct, 1947 (U. P. 28 of 1947) s. 6E-Industrial Disputes	Act,1947 (14 of 1947), s. 33.HEADNOTE:Two officers of the appellant were assaulted by the workmen.In  this  connection the appellant served notices  on  eightworkmen	 calling upon them to explain their conduct  and  toshow  cause  why  they should not be  dismissed.   In  theirexplanations  the workmen denied the charges.	Thereupon  aproper enquiry was held according to the Standing Orders, asa result of which the charges were found proved against	 theworkmen	 and the appellant dismissed the workmen  and  askedthem to take their final dues together with one month's	 payin  lieu  of notice.  As a dispute in respect of  bonus	 waspending	 before the Industrial Tribunal, the appellant	madeapplications  to it under s. 6E(2) of the U.  P.  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947, for approval of the dismissal  of	 theworkmen.   The Tribunal refused to accord its  approval	 anddirected  the  appellant to reinstate the workmen  from	 thedate  of suspension and to pay full wages for the period  ofunemployment.	The  appellant contended that  the  Tribunalacted  beyond  its  jurisdiction and assumed  powers  of  anappellate Court over the decision of the appellant.Held, that the Tribunal had assumed jurisdiction not  vestedin  it	by  assuming powers of an appellate  Court  and	 itsrefusal	 to accord approval was patently erroneous  in	law.The  requirement of obtaining approval under s. 6E(2)(b)  ofthe  U. P. Act (or S. 33(2) Of the Central Act) in cases  ofdismissal  or discharge for misconduct not connected with  apending dispute as distinguished   from	 the requirement  ofobtaining previous permission under s.	6E(1) of '.the U. P.Act (or s. 33(1) of the Central Act) in cases of  misconductconnected  with	 a pending dispute indicated  that  the	 banimposed	 by  s. 6E(2) was not as rigid or rigorous  as	thatimposed	 by s. 6E(1).  The jurisdiction to give or  withholdpermission  was Prima facie wider than the  jurisdiction  togive  or withhold approval.  Where the employer had  held  aproper	domestic enquiry and had dismissed the workmen as  aresult	of such enquiry, all that the Tribunal could do	 wasto enquire:    (i) whether the Standing Orders justified thedismissal, (ii)	    whether  the  enquiry had been  held  asprovided by the Standing Orders, (iii) whether wages for onemonth  had  been paid and (iv) whether	an  application	 forapproval  had been made as prescribed.	In the present	caseall these  conditions were205satisfied but the Tribunal lost sight of its limitations andassumed	 powers	 of an appellate Court entitled to  go	intoquestion of fact.The Punjab National Bank Ltd. v. Its Workmen, [1960]  S.C.R.806, referred to.Quaere:	  Whether  the	application for	 approval  under  s.6E(2)(b)  of  the  U. P. Act or under  s.  33(2)(b)  of	 theCentral	 Act could be made after the order of dismissal	 hadbeen passed or whether it had to be made before passing suchan order.Note:-Section 6E of the U.,P. Industrial Disputes Act,	1947is  identical in terms with s. 33 of the Central  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 427 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the Award dated  February	 18,1958, of the Industrial Tribunal (Textiles) U.P., Allahabad,in Petitions (under s. 6-E) Nos. (Tex.) 3 and 4 of 1957	 and1 of 1958.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India and G.    C.Mathur, for the appellant.B. P. Maheshwari, for the respondents.1960.  December 12.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-Three applications made by the  appellantthe  Lord  Krishna Textile Mills under s. 6-E(2)(b)  of	 theUnited	Provinces Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Act  XXVIIIof  1947)  for	obtaining the  approval	 of  the  IndustrialTribunal  to  the dismissal of 8 of its	 workmen  have	beenrejected;  and	the  Tribunal  has  refused  to	 accord	 itsapproval to the action taken by the appellant.	This  appealby  special leave challenges the legality, validity as	wellas  the	 propriety  of the said	 order,	 and  the  principalquestion  which it seeks to raise is in regard to the  scopeof the enquiry permissible under s. 6-E(2)(b) as well as theextent	of the jurisdiction of the Tribunal in holding	suchan enquiry.  Section 6-E(2) of the U. P. Act is identical interms  with s. 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947	(XIVof 1947) (hereafter called the Act), and for convenience  wewould refer to the latter section because what we decide  inthe present appeal will206apply as much to cases falling under s. 6-E(2)(b) of the  U.P. Act as those falling under s. 33(2)(b) of the Act.It  appears  that on October 12, 1957 when  the	 appellant'sController of Production and the General Superintendent werediscussing  certain matters in the  office of the  appellantmills,	Har  Prasad, one of the 8 workmen dismissed  by	 theappellant, came to see the Controller along with some  otherworkmen.  These workmen placed before the Controller some oftheir grievances; and when the Controller told their  leaderHar  Prasad that the grievances set forth by them  were	 notjustified  Har	Prasad replied that the	 Controller  was  incharge of the management of the appellant mills and could dowhat  he  liked, but he added that the ways adopted  by	 themanagement   were  not	proper	and  "it  may	bring	veryunsatisfactory	results".  With these words Har	 Prasad	 andhis companions left the office of the Controller.  Two	daysthereafter  Har	 Prasad and Mool Chand	saw  the  Controlleragain  in  his office and complained that one  of  the	BackSizers	Yamin had reported to them that the  Controller	 hadbeaten	him; the Controller denied the allegation  whereuponthe  two workmen left his office.  At about 6 p.m. the	sameevening	  a  number  of	 workmen  of  the  appellant   millssurrounded  Mr. Contractor, the General Superintendent,	 andMr.  Surti when they were returning to their bungalows	fromthe  mills  and assaulted and beat them.  The  two  officersthen lodged a First Information Report at Thana Sadar Bazar,Saharanpur  about 9 p.m.; thereupon the Inspector of  Policewent  to  the  scene of the offence,  and  on  making  localenquiries  arrested two workmen Ramesh Chander	Kaushik	 andTika  Ram.  This offence naturally led to grave disorder  inthe  mills,  and  the  officers	 of  the  mills	 felt  greatresentment in consequence of which the mills remained closedfor three days.	 The appellant's management then started itsown  investigations  and  on October 17	 it  suspended	fiveworkmen	 Har  Prasad, Majid, Zinda, Yamin and  Manak  Chand.Notice was served on each of these suspended workmen callingupon them to explain their conduct and207to  show  cause why they should not be	dismissed  from	 theservice of the mills.  As a result of further  investigationthe  management	 suspended two more workmen Om	Parkash	 andSatnam	on  October 24 and served similar notices  on  them.Ramesh	Chander	 Kaushik and Tika Ram were  then  in  policecustody.   After  they	were released  from  police  custodynotices	 were served on them on November 24 asking  them  toshow cause why their services should not be terminated.All the workmen to whom notices were thus served gave  theirexplanations  and denied the charges levelled against  them.An  enquiry was then held according to the Standing  Orders.At  'the said enquiry all the. workmen concerned as well  asthe representatives of the union were allowed to be  presentand  the  offending workmen were given full  opportunity  toproduce	 their	witnesses  as  also  to	 cross-examine	 thewitnesses  produced  by the management against them.   As  aresult	of  the enquiry thus held the management  found	 thecharges	 proved	 against  the  workmen	concerned,  and	  onNovember 19 Om Parkash, Satnam, Majid, Yamin, Zinda and	 HarPrasad	were dismissed.	 These dismissed workmen were  askedto  take their final dues together with one month's  pay  inlieu of notice as required by the Standing Orders, On Decem-ber 20, the enquiry held against Tika Ram and Ramesh Chanderconcluded  and as a result of the findings that the  chargeswere  proved  against them the said two	 workmen  were	alsodismissed from service and required to take their final dueswith one month's wages in lieu of notice.At  this time an industrial dispute in respect of bonus	 forthe relevant year was pending before the Industrial Tribunal(Textile)  U.P., Allahabad.  The appellant, therefore,	madethree  applications before the Tribunal under s.  6-E(2)  ofthe  U. P. Act on November 21 and 27 and December  21,	1957respectively.	By these applications the  appellant  prayedthat  the Industrial Tribunal should accord its approval  tothe  dismissal	of the workmen concerned.  On  February	 18,1958  the  Tribunal found that the appellant had  failed  tomake out a case for dismissing the208workmen	 in  question,	and  so it  refused  to	 accord	 itsapproval  to their dismissal.  Accordingly it  directed	 theappellant  to reinstate the said workmen to  their  originaljobs with effect from the dates on which they were suspendedwith  continuity  of  service,	and  it	 ordered  that	 theappellant  should  pay them full  wages for  the  period  ofunemployment.  It is on these facts that the question  aboutthe construction of s.	 6-E(2)(b) of the U.P. Act falls  tobe considered.As we have already observed the material provisions of s. 6-E  of the U. P. Act are the same as s. 33 of the  Act  afterits  amendment made by Act 36 of 1956; and since the  fattersection	 is  of general application we propose to  read	 therelevant provisions of s. 33 of the Act and deal with  them.All that we say about this section will automatically  applyto the corresponding provisions of s. 6-E of the U. P. Act.Section	 33 occurs in Chapter VII of the Act which  containsmiscellaneous provisions.  The object of s. 33 clearly is toallow  continuance of industrial proceedings pending  beforeany  authority prescribed by the Act in a calm and  peacefulatmosphere undisturbed by any other industrial dispute; thatis why the plain object of the section is to maintain statusquo as far as is reasonably possible during the pendency  ofthe  said proceedings.	Prior to its amendment by Act 36  of1956  s. 33 applied generally to all cases where  alterationin the conditions of service was intended to be made by	 theemployer, or an order of discharge or dismissal was proposedto   be	 passed	 against  an  employee	without	  making   adistinction  as to whether the said alteration or  the	saidorder of discharge or dismissal was in any manner  connectedwith the dispute pending before an industrial authority.  Inother  words, the effect of the unamended section  was	thatpending	 an  industrial dispute the employer could  make  noalteration in the conditions of service to the prejudice  ofworkmen	 and could pass no order of discharge  or  dismissalagainst	 any  of  his employees	 even  though  the  proposedalteration or the intended action had no connection whateverwith  the  dispute pending. between him and  his  employees.This led to a general			    209complaint by the employers that several applications had  tobe  made  for  obtaining the permission	 of  the   specifiedauthorities  in regard to matters which were  not  connectedwith  the  industrial dispute pending adjudication;  and  inmany  cases where alterations in conditions of service	wereurgently required to be made or immediate action against  anoffending   workman  was  essential  in	 the   interest	  ofdiscipline,  the employers were powerless to do the  needfuland  had to submit to the delay involved in the	 process  ofmaking	an  application for permission in  that	 behalf	 andobtaining the consent of the Tribunal.	That is why, by	 theamendment  made in s. 33 in 1956 the Legislature has made  abroad  division between action proposed to be taken  by	 theemployer in regard to any matter connected with the  disputeon  the one hand, and action proposed to be taken in  regardto  a matter not connected with the dispute  pending  beforethe authority on the other.Section	 33(1)	provides that during the  pendency  of	suchindustrial  proceedings no employer shall (a) in  regard  toany matter connected with the dispute alter to the prejudiceof  the workmen concerned in such dispute the conditions  ofservice	  applicable   to  them	  immediately	before	 thecommencement of such proceedings, or (b) for any  misconductconnected  with the dispute discharge or punish	 whether  bydismissal or otherwise any workman connected with such	dis-pute,  save  with the express permission in writing  of	 theauthority before which the proceeding is pending.  Thus	 theoriginal  unamended section has now been confined  to  caseswhere the proposed action on the part of the employer is  inregard to a matter connected with a dispute pending  beforean  industrial	authority.  Under s. 33(1)  if	an  employerwants  to  change the conditions of service in regard  to  amatter	connected with a pending dispute he can do  so	onlywith  the express permission in writing of  the	 appropriateauthority.   Similarly,	 if  he wants  to  take	 any  actionagainst	 an employee on the ground of an alleged  misconductconnected with the pending dispute he27210cannot	do  so	unless he  obtains  previous  permission  inwriting of the appropriate authority.The  object of placing this ban on the employer's  right  totake  action pending adjudication of an	 industrial  disputehas been considered by this Court on several occasions.	  Inthe case of the Punjab National Bank Ltd. V. Its Workmen (1)this  Court examined its earlier decisions on the point	 andconsidered  the nature of the enquiry which the	 appropriateauthority can hold when an application is made before it  bythe   employer	under  s.  33(1)  and  the  extent  of	 thejurisdiction which it can exercise in such an enquiry.	"Thepurpose	 the Legislature had in view in enacting s. 33",  itwas  held, "was to maintain the status quo by placing a	 banon any action by the employer pending adjudication"; and  itwas added "but the jurisdiction conferred on the  IndustrialTribunal by s. 33 was a limited one.  Where a proper enquiryhad been held and no victimisation or unfair labour practicehad  been resorted to, the Tribunal in	granting  permissionhad only to satisfy itself that there was a prima facie caseagainst	 the employee and not to consider the  propriety  oradequacy  of the proposed action".  It is  significant	thatthe Tribunal can impose no conditions and must either  grantpermission  or refuse it.  It is also significant  that	 theeffect of the permission when granted was only to remove theban  imposed by s. 33; it does not necessarily validate	 thedismissal   or	prevent	 the  said  dismissal	from   beingchallenged  in an industrial dispute.  This position is	 notdisputed  before  us.  What is in dispute before us  is	 thenature	of  the enquiry and the extent	of  the	 authority'sjurisdiction in holding such an enquiry under s. 33(2).Section	 33(2) deals with the alterations in the  conditionsof  service  as well as discharge or  dismissal	 of  workmenconcerned  in any pending dispute where such  alteration  orsuch  discharge	 or dismissal is in regard to a	 matter	 notconnected  with	 the said pending dispute.   This  class  ofcases where the matter giving rise to the proposed action isunconnected with the pending industrial dispute has now beentaken(1)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 806.211out of the scope of s. 33(1) and dealt with separately by s.33(2)  and  the following sub-sections of  s.  33.   Section33(2) reads thus:	      "During the pendency of any such proceeding in	      respect of an industrial dispute, the employer	      may,  in accordance with the  standing  orders	      applicable  to  a workman	 concerned  in	such	      dispute,-	      (a)   alter,  in	regard	to  any	 matter	 not	      connected with the dispute, the conditions  of	      service applicable to that workman immediately	      before the commencement of such proceeding; or	      (b)   for	 any misconduct not  connected	with	      the  dispute, discharge or punish, whether  by	      dismissal or otherwise, that workman:	      Provided	 that  no  such	 workman  shall	  be	      discharged  or dismissed, unless he  has	been	      paid  wages for one month and  an	 application	      has been made by the employer to the authority	      before  which  the proceeding is	pending	 for	      approval of the action taken by the employer."It  would  be noticed that even during the  pendency  of  anindustrial dispute the employer's right is now recognised tomake  an alteration in the conditions of service so long  asit  does not relate to a matter connected with	the  pendingdispute,  and  this  right  can	 be  exercised	by  him	  inaccordance with the relevant standing orders.  In regard  tosuch alteration no application is required to be made and noapproval  required  to	be  obtained.	When  an   employer,however, wants to dismiss or discharge a workman for allegedmisconduct  not connected with the dispute he can do  so  inaccordance with the standing orders but a ban is imposed  onthe  exercise  of this power by the  proviso.	The  provisorequires  that	no  such  workmen  shall  be  discharged  ordismissed unless two conditions are satisfied; the first  isthat the employee concerned should have been paid wages	 forone month, and the second is that an application should havebeen  made by the employer to the appropriate authority	 forapproval  of the action taken by the employer.	It is  plainthat  whereas in cases falling under s. 33(1) no action	 canbe taken by the employer unless he has212obtained   previously	the  express   permission   of	 theappropriate  authority	in writing, in cases  falling  undersub-s. (2) the employer is required to satisfy the specifiedconditions  but he need not necessarily obtain the  previousconsent	 in  writing  before  he  takes	 any  action.	 Therequirement  that he must obtain approval  as  distinguishedfrom the requirement that he must obtain previous permissionindicates  that the ban imposed by s. 33(2) is not as  rigidor  rigorous as that imposed by s. 33(1).  The	jurisdictionto give or withhold permission is prima facie wider than thejurisdiction to give or withhold approval.  In dealing	withcases  falling under s. 33(2) the industrial authority	willbe  entitled  to enquire whether the proposed action  is  inaccordance  with the standing orders, whether  the  employeeconcerned has been paid wages for one month, and whether  anapplication has been made for approval as prescribed by	 thesaid sub-section.  It is obvious that in cases of alterationof  conditions of service falling under s. 33(2)(a) no	suchapproval  is required and the right of the employer  remainsunaffected by any ban.	Therefore, putting it negatively thejurisdiction  of  the appropriate  industrial  authority  inholding an enquiry under s. 33(2)(b) cannot be wider and is,if at all, more limited, than that permitted under s. 33(1),and in exercising its powers under s. 33(2) the	 appropriateauthority must bear in mind the departure deliberately	madeby  the Legislature in separating the two classes  of  casesfalling	 under	the two sub-sections, and in  providing	 forexpress	 permission  in one case and only  approval  in	 theother.	 It  is	 true  that it would  be  competent  to	 theauthority  in a proper case to refuse to give approval,	 fors. 33(5) expressly empowers the authority to pass such orderin  relation  to the application made before  it  under	 theproviso	 to  s. 33(2)(b) as it may deem fit; it	 may  eitherapprove	 or  refuse to approve; it can, however,  impose  noconditions and pass no conditional order.Section	 33(3) deals with cases of protected workmen and  itassimilates cases of alterations of conditions of service ororders of discharge or dismissal proposed to213be made or passed in respect of them to cases falling  unders.  33(1); in other words, where an employer wants to  alterconditions  of service in regard to a protected workman,  orto  pass an order of discharge or dismissal against  him,  aban is imposed on his rights to take such action in the samemanner	in which it has been imposed under s.  33(1).	Sub-section	 (4)  provides	for  the  recognition  of  protectedworkmen,  and limits their number as therein indicated;	 andsub-s.	(5)  requires  that where an employer  has  made  anapplication  under the proviso to sub-s. (2), the  authorityconcerned shall without delay hear such application and passas expeditiously as possible such orders in relation theretoas it deems fit.  This provision brings out the	 legislativeintention  that, though an express permission in writing  isnot  required  in  cases falling under	the  proviso  to  s.33(2)(b), it is desirable that there should not be any	timelag  between the action taken by the employer and the  orderpassed by the appropriate authority in an enquiry under	 thesaid. proviso.Before	we proceed to deal with the merits of  the  dispute,however,  we  may incidentally refer to another	 problem  ofconstruction which may arise for decision under s.  33(2)(b)and which has been argued before us at some length.  When isthe  employer  required	 to make an  application  under	 theproviso	 to  s. 33(2)(b)?  Two views are  possible  on	thispoint.	 It may be that the proviso imposes  two  conditionsprecedent  for the exercise of the right recognised  in	 theemployer  to  dismiss  or discharge his	 workman  pending  adispute.   The use of the word "unless" can be pressed	intoservice	 in support of the argument that the two  conditionsare conditions precedent; he has to pay wages for one  monthto  the	 employee,  and he has to make	an  application	 forapproval; and both these conditions must be satisfied beforethe  employee is discharged or dismissed.  On this  view  itwould  be open to the employer to discharge or	dismiss	 hisemployee  after satisfying the said two	 conditions  withoutwaiting for the final order which the authority may pass  onthe application made before it in that-214behalf.	 The Legislature has indicated that there should  beno  time lag between the making of the application  and	 itsfinal disposal, and so by sub-s. (5) it has specifically andexpressly provided that such application should be  disposedof as expeditiously as possible.  This view proceeds on	 theassumption  that the word "unless" really means "until"	 andintroduces a condition precedent.On  the	 other	hand, it is possible  to  contend  that	 theapplication  need  not be made before any  action  has	beentaken, and that is clear from the fact that the	 applicationis  required to be made for approval of the action taken  bythe  employer.	 "Approval"  according	to  its	  dictionarymeaning	 suggests that what has to be approved	has  alreadytaken place; it is in the nature of ratification of what hasalready	 happened  or taken place.  The word  "approval"  incontrast with the word "previous permission" shows that	 theaction	is  taken first and  approval  obtained	 afterwards.Besides,  the words "action taken" which are  underlined  byus,  it may be argued, show that the order of  discharge  ordismissal  has	been passed, and approval  for	action	thustaken is sought for by the application made by the employer.On  the first construction the words "action taken" have  tobe construed as meaning action proposed to be taken, whereason  the latter construction the said words are	given  theirliteral	 meaning,  and	it is said  that  the  discharge  ordismissal  has taken place and it is the action	 thus  takenfor which approval is prayed.  In support of the first	viewit  may be urged that the words "action taken" can  well  beinterpreted to mean "action proposed to be taken" because itis plain that the condition as to payment of wages cannot beliterally  construed and must include cases where wages	 mayhave  been  tendered to the workman but may  not  have	beenaccepted by him.  In other words, the argument in support ofthe first interpretation is that in the construction of boththe conditions the words "paid" and "action taken" cannot beliterally  construed,  and in the context should  receive  amore  liberal  interpretation.	"Paid wages" would  on	thatview mean "wages215tendered" and "action taken" would mean "action proposed  tobe taken".  If these two words are literally construed theremay  be some inconsistency between the notion introduced  bythe use of the word "unless" and these words thus  literallyconstrued.It may also be urged in support of the first contention thatif  the	 ban imposed by the proviso does not  mean  that  anapplication has to be made before any action is taken by theemployer it would be left to the sweet will of the  employerto make the requisite application at any time he likes.	 Thesection	 does not provide for any reasonable  period  withinwhich  the  application	 should be made	 and  prescribes  nopenalty	 for default on the part of the employer  in  makingsuch  an  application within any time.	On the	other  hand,this argument can be met by reference to s. 33A of the	Act.If  an	employer  does	not make  an  application  within  areasonable time the employee may treat that as contraventionof s. 33(2)(b) and make a complaint under s. 33A, and such acomplaint would be tried as if it is an industrial  dispute;but, on the other hand an employer can attempt to make	sucha complaint ineffective by immediately proceeding to  complywith s. 33(2)(b) by making an application in that behalf andthe  authority may then have to consider whether  the  delaymade  by  the employer in making  the  required	 applicationunder  s.  33(2)(b) amounts to a contravention of  the	saidprovision, and such an enquiry could not have been  intendedby  the Legislature; that is why the making of the  applica-tion  should be treated as a condition precedent  under	 theproviso.  If that be the true position then the employer hasto  make an application before he actually takes the  actionjust  as  he has to tender money to  the  employee  beforedismissing  or	discharging  him.   But,  if  it  is  not  acondition precedent, then he may pass an order of  dischargeor  dismissal and make an application in that behalf  withinreasonable time.We  have  set forth the rival contentions in regard  to	 theconstruction  of  the  proviso, but we	do  not	 propose  toexpress our decision on the point, because, having regard totheir  pleadings, we cannot allow the respondents  to  raisethis question for our decision in the216present	 appeal.   It is clear from the	 contentions  raisedbefore the Tribunal and the pleas specifically raised by therespondents  in	 their statement of case before	 this  Courtthat  both parties agreed that the application	in  questionhad been properly made under the proviso; and the only pointat issue between them is about the validity and propriety ofthe  order  under  appeal  having  regard  to  the   limitedjurisdiction of the enquiry under s. 33(2)(b), and it, is tothat  question	that we must now return.  Before we  do	 so,however,  we ought to add that our attention had been  drawnto  three  decisions  of this Court in	which,	without	 anydiscussion  of	the point, the validity	 of  the  employers'applications  made  under s. 33(2)(b) appears to  have	beenassumed	 though the said applications were  presumably	madeafter  the  employers had dismissed their  employees.	Theyare:  Delhi Cloth and General Mills Ltd v. Kushal Bhan	(1);The Management of Swatantra Bharat Mills, New Delhi v. RatanLal  (2 ); and The Central India Coal fields Ltd.,  Calcuttav. Ram BilasShobnath (3).  We wish to make it clear that these decisionsshould not be taken to have decided the point one way or theother since it was obviously not argued before the Court andhad not been considered at all.In  view  of the limited nature and extent  of	the  enquirypermissible under s. 33(2)(b) all that the authority can  doin  dealing  with an employer's application is	to  considerwhether	 a prima facie case for according approval  is	madeout  by	 him or not.  If before dismissing an  employee	 theemployer  has  held  a	proper	domestic  enquiry  and	 hasproceeded to pass the impugned order as a result of the saidenquiry, all that the authority can do is to enquire whetherthe conditions prescribed by s. 33(2)(b) and the proviso aresatisfied or not.  Do the standing orders justify the  orderof  dismissal?	Has an enquiry been held an provided by	 thestanding  order?  Have the wages for the month been paid  asrequired by the proviso?; and, has an application been	madeas prescribed by the proviso?  This last(1)  [1960] 3 S.C.R. 227.(2)  Civil Appeal No. 392 of 1959 decided on 28.3.1960(3)  Civil Appeal No. 162 of 1959 decided on 31.3.1960217question  does not fall to be decided in the present  appealbecause	 it is common ground that the application  has	beenproperly  made.	  Standing  Order  21  specifies'  acts	  ofomission  which	 would be treated as misconduct, and  it  isclear  that  under  21(s) threatening  or  intimidating	 anyoperative  or  employee	 within	 the  factory  premises	  ismisconduct for which dismissal is prescribed as	 punishment.This  position	also is not in dispute.	 There	is  also  nodispute	  that	proper	charge-sheets  were  given  to	 theemployees  in  question, an enquiry was properly  held,	 andopportunity  wag  given	 to  the  employees  to	 lead  theirevidence  and to cross-examine the evidence adduced  againstthem;  in other words, the enquiry is found by the  Tribunalto have been regular and proper.  As a result of the enquirythe officer who held the enquiry came to the conclusion thatthe  charges as framed had been proved against	the  workmenconcerned,  and so orders of dismissal were  passed  againstthem.  In such a case it is difficult to understand how	 theTribunal  felt justified in refusing to accord	approval  tothe action taken by the appellant.  It  has  been	 urged before us by the	 appellant  that  inholding the present enquiry the Tribunal has assumed  powersof  an	appellate  court which is entitled to  go  into	 allquestions  of fact; this criticism seems to us to  be  fullyjustified.  One has merely to read the order to be satisfiedthat   the  Tribunal  has  exceeded  its   jurisdiction	  inattempting  to enquire if the conclusions ,of fact  recordedin  the	 enquiry were justified on the merits.	It  did	 nothold  that the enquiry was defective or the requirements  ofnatural	 justice had not been satisfied in any	manner.	  Onthe  other  hand  it has  expressly  proceeded	to  considerquestions of fact and has given reasons some of which  wouldbe inappropriate and irrelevant if not fantastic even if theTribunal  was  dealing	with the relevant  questions  as  anappellate  court.  "The script in which the statements	havebeen  recorded",  observes the Tribunal, "is not  clear	 andfully  decipherable".	How  this  can	be  any	 reason	  inupsetting.the finding of the enquiry it is impossible to28218understand.   The  Tribunal  has  also	observed  that	 theevidence  adduced was not adequate and that it had not	beenproperly  discussed.  According to the Tribunal the  charge-sheets	should	have been more specific and  clear  and	 theevidence,should	 have  been  more  satisfactory.   Then	 theTribunal has proceeded to examine the evidence, referred tosome  discrepancies in the statements made by witnesses	 andhas come to the conclusion that the domestic enquiry  shouldnot have recorded the conclusion that the charges have	beenproved against the workmen in question.	 In our opinion,  inmaking	these comments against the findings of	the  enquirythe   Tribunal	clearly	 lost  sight  of   the	 limitationsstatutorily  placed upon its power and authority in  holdingthe  enquiry under s. 33(2)(b).	 It is well known  that	 thequestion  about the adequacy of evidence or its	 sufficiencyor satisfactory character can be raised in a court of  factsand may fall to be considered by an appellate court which isentitled  to  consider facts; but these	 considerations	 areirrelevant where the jurisdiction of the court is limited asunder  s. 33(2)(b).  It is conceivable that even in  holdingan  enquiry under s. 33(2)(b) if the authority is  satisfiedthat  the  finding  recorded  at  the  domestic	 enquiry  isperverse in the sense that it is not justified by any  legalevidence whatever, only in such a case it may be entitled toconsider whether approval should be accorded to the employeror  not; but it is essential to bear in mind the  differencebetween	 a  finding  which is not  supported  by  any  legalevidence and a finding which may appear to be not  supportedby sufficient or adequate or satisfactory evidence.   Havingcarefully  considered the reasons given by the	Tribunal  inits  award  under appeal, we have no hesitation	 in  holdingthat the appellant is fully justified in contending that theTribunal  has assumed jurisdiction not vested in it by	law,and  consequently  its	refusal to accord  approval  to	 theaction taken by the appellant is patently erroneous in law.Mr.  Maheshwari, however, wanted us to examine the  case  ofHar  Prasad, because, according to him, Har Prasad has	beenvictimised by the employer for219his trade union activities.  Har Prasad is the President  ofthe Kapra Mill Mazdoor Union, Saharanpur, and it is  becauseof his activities as such President that the appellant	doesnot like him.  It is common ground that at the relevant timeHar Prasad was not recognised as a protected workman, and sohis  case  does not fall under s. 33(3).  The  Tribunal	 hasobserved that this workman has not been named by any witnessas  having taken part in any assault, and it  was  thereforeinclined  to  take the view that his dismissal	amounted  tovictimisation.	We have carefully considered this  workman'scase,  and  we	are  satisfied that  the  Tribunal  was	 notjustified  in  refusing	 to  accord  approval  even  to	 hisdismissal.   It	 is common ground that Har  Prasad  led	 thedeputation  to the Controller of Production both on  October12  and	 October 14; and the threat held out by him  on	 theearlier occasion is not denied by him.	In terms he told theController  that  his conduct would bring  trouble.   It  issignificant  that  some	 of the workmen	 who  assaulted	 theofficers  on October 14 had accompanied Har Prasad and	werepresent	 when  he gave the threat to the  Controller.	Air.Sushil	 Kumar,	 who  is  the  appellant's   Controller	  ofProduction,  has  deposed to this threat.  The	sequence  ofevents that took place on October 14 unambiguously indicatesthat  it  was  the threat held out by  Har  Prasad  and	 theincitement  given  by  him that led to the  assault  on	 theevening of October 14.	Mr. Sushil Kumar's evidence  appearsto  be straightforward and honest.  He has frankly  admittedthat  in the past Har Prasad had been co-operating with	 himand that he had. never instigated any attack on the officerson  any previous occasion.  Har Prasad no doubt denied	thatthere was any exchange of hot words during the course of hisinterview  with	 the officers but he has  not  disputed	 Mr.Sushil	Kumar's	 evidence that he uttered a warning  at	 thetime of the said interview.  In fact his contention  appearsto have been that action should have been taken against	 himsoon  after he uttered the threat.  On the evidence  led  atthe enquiry, the enquiry officer came to the conclusion thatthe charge framed against this workman had220been clearly proved.  The charge was that he had plotted andhatched	  a   conspiracy   for	 assaulting   the    GeneralSuperintendent,	 Weaving  Master,  Chief  Engineer,  FactoryManager	 and the Controller of Production.  The	 details  ofthe  charge were specified, and at the enquiry it  was	heldthat these charges had been proved.  There is no doubt	thatthese	charges,  if  proved,  deserve	the  punishment	  ofdismissal under the relevant standing orders.  The Tribunal,however,  purported to examine the propriety of the  findingrecorded against Har Prasad and came to the conclusion	thatthe  said  finding was not justified on the merits.   As  wehave already pointed out the Tribunal had no jurisdiction tosit  in	 appeal over the findings of the enquiry as  it	 haspurported  to do.  The result is that the conclusion of	 theTribunal  in  regard to all the workmen is  unjustified	 andwithout jurisdiction. The appeal is accordingly allowed, the order passed by	 theTribunal  is  set  aside, and approval is  accorded  to	 theaction taken by the appellant under s. 6E.  There will be noorder as to costs.Appeal allowed.		   _________________