PETITIONER:HANSRAJ MOOLJI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/02/1957BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDAKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  497		  1957 SCR  634ACT:Ordinance,  duration  of-Promulgation  under  the  EmergencyProvisions-Declaration of termination of emergency-Scope andeffect-Operation  of  Ordinance	 after	end  of	  emergency-Government of India Act,1935 (25 & 26 Geo.5 Ch. 42) Sch.  9,s. 72-India and Burma (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940 (3  &4 Geo. 6 Ch. 33), Ss. 1 (3), 3-High Denomination Bank  Notes(Demonetisation)  Ordinance,  1946  (Ordinance	No.  III  Of1946), ss. 4, 7.HEADNOTE:Under s. 72 Of the 9th Sch. of the Government of India	Act,1935:  "  The Governor-General may, in cases  of  emergency,make and promulgate ordinances ... and any ordinance so madeshall,	for the space of not more than six months  from	 itspromulgation, have the like force of law as an Act passed bythe  Indian  Legislature ... " ; S. I (3) of the  India	 andBurma (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940, provided that s.  72Of  the	 Government of India Act, 1935,	 shall	as  respectsOrdinances  made during the period beginning with  June	 27,1940,  the date of the passing of that Act, and ending	withsuch date as His Majesty may by Order in Council declare  tobe the end of the emergency, have effect as if635the  words " for the space of not more than six months	fromits promulgation " were omitted.The  appellant was prosecuted for having on July  11,  1953,contravened the provisions of S. 4 of the High	DenominationBank Notes (Demonetisation) Ordinance, 1946.  The  Ordinancewas promulgated by the Governor-General of India on  January12,  1946,  but on April 1, 1946, an Order  in	Council	 waspublished in the Gazette of India Extraordinary whereby	 theperiod	of  emergency  referred to in the  India  and  Burma(Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940, was declared to have endedon  April 1, 1946.  It was contended for the appellant	thatthe  Ordinance in question was not in operation on the	datewhen the offence was alleged to have been committed and thattherefore the prosecution was not maintainable, because	 (1)the  Ordinance	had  been promulgated  in  exercise  of	 theemergency  powers and that it lapsed ipso facto on April  1,1946,  when the declaration was made that the emergency	 wasat  an end; and (2) S. 72 of the 9th Sch. of the  Governmentof  India Act, 1935, having been restored with	effect	fromApril 1, 1946, one must look to its terms as they originallystood,	to  justify the continuance of the  Ordinance  afterApril I, 1946.Held, that the deletion of the words " for the space of	 notmore  than six months from its promulgation " from S. 72  ofthe  9th Sch. of the Government of India Act, 1935, by s.  1(3) of the India and Burma (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940,had the effect of equating Ordinances which were promulgatedbetween	 June 27, 1940, and April I, 1946, with Acts  passedby the Indian Legislature without any limitation of time  asregards	 their duration, and therefore continuing  in  forceuntil they were repealed.Though	after  April I, 1946, S. 72 Of the 9th Sch.  of	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935, was restored in its  originalform,  the  continuance of the Ordinance in  question  afterthat date had to be determined having regard to the terms ofthe section as they stood on the date of such  promulgation,as  there was nothing to justify retrospective operation  ofthe section so restored.J.   K. Gas Plant Manufacturing Co. (Rampur) Ltd. and othersv.   King Emperor, [1947] F.C.R. 141, relied on.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal'Appeal No. 93 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  April  14, 1955, of the Bombay High Court	in  CriminalAppeal No. 156 of 1955 and Criminal Revision Application No.435  of	 1955  arising out of  Judgment	 dated	the  January3,1955, of the Court of636the Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate, Bombay, in	CaseNo. 9/p of 1954.Purshottam  Tricumdas,	J. B. Dadachanji, S. N.	 Andley	 andRameshwar Nath, for the appellant.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, PorusA.   Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1957.  February 12.  The Judgment of the Court wasdelivered byBHAGWATI J.-This appeal with special leave under Art. 136 ofthe  Constitution  raises  the	question  whether  the	HighDenomination  Bank  Notes (Demonetisation)  Ordinance,	1946(Ordinance  No.	 III of 1946) promulgated by  the  Governor-General	 of India on January 12, 1946, was in  operation  onJuly  11, 1953, when the offence under s. 7 read with  s.  4thereof was committed by the appellant herein.The  appellant	who  was  the  accused	No.  1	before	 theAdditional Chief Presidency Magistrate's Court, Bombay,	 wascharged	 along	with  the accused Nos. 2, 3, 5	and  6	withhaving	on  or about July II, 1953, transferred by  sale  10High  Denomination  Bank Notes of the  Denomination  of	 Rs.1,000 each to one Velji Lakhamshi Joshi for Rs. 1,800 at therate of Rs. 180 per note and thus contravened the provisionsof s. 4 of the Ordinance and committed an offence punishableunder  s. 7 of the Ordinance read with s. 109 of the  IndianPenal Code.A preliminary objection was urged by the learned counsel forthe  appellant that the said Ordinance was not in  operationat  the	 date  when the offence was  alleged  to  have	beencommitted  and	that  therefore	 the  prosecution  was	 notmaintainable.	This objection was overruled by the  learnedPresidency Magistrate and the trial ended in the  convictionof  the appellant along with the co-accused of	the  offencewith  which  they  had	been  charged.	 The  appellant	 wassentenced  to pay a fine of Rs. 8,000 and in default  suffersix months' rigorous imprisonment and the co-accused of	 theappellant were awarded varying sentences of fine with  whichhowever we are not concerned.The appellant took an appeal to the High Court of Judicatureat Bombay being Criminal Appeal No. 156637of  1955.  The State of Bombay, the respondent herein,	alsofiled an application for enhancement of the sentence,  beingCriminal  Revision  Application No. 435 of  1955.   The	 co-accused	 of  the appellant had also  filed  appeals  againsttheir  convictions and sentences of fine imposed  upon	themand all these appeals and the application of the  respondentwere heard together by a Division, Bench of the High  Court.The High Court agreed with the learned Presidency Magistratein regard to the finding of fact and held that the appellanthad  in fact transferred by sale 10 High  Denomination	BankNotes of Rs. 1,000 each to the possession of Velji Lakhamshiand  his act fell within the prohibition enacted in s. 4  ofthe   Ordinance.    The	 High  Court  also   overruled	 thecontentions  which  were urged before it in  regard  to	 theOrdinance having lapsed and ceased to be in operation beforeJuly 11, 1953, the date on which the offence was alleged  tohave   been   committed.   It  accordingly   confirmed	 theconviction  recorded  against the appellant by	the  learnedAdditional  Chief Presidency Magistrate.  In regard  to	 thesentence the High Court saw no ground for enhancing the sameand  confirmed	the  sentence of fine of Rs.  8,000  and  indefault	 six  months' rigorous imprisonment which  had	beenawarded	  by  the  learned  Presidency	Magistrate  to	 theappellant.The  appellant applied to the High Court for  a	 certificateunder  Art.  134  (1) (c) of  the  Constitution.   The	saidapplication was however dismissed by the High Court with theresult	that  he applied for and obtained  from	 this  Courtspecial leave under Art. 136 of the Constitution.The decision of this appeal turns on the construction of  s.72 of the 9th Sch. of the Government of India Act, 1935	 (25and  26 Geo. 5 ch. 42) and s. 1 (3) of the India  and  Burma(Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940 (3 and 4 Geo. 6 ch. 33).Section	 72 of the 9th sch. of the Government of India	Act,1935, read as follows:" The Governor-General may, in cases of emergency, make	 andpromulgate  ordinances for the peace and good Government  ofBritish India or any part thereof, and any ordinance so madeshall, for the638space  of  not more than six months from  its  promulgation,have  the like force of law as an Act passed by	 the  IndianLegislature;  but the power of making ordinances under	thissection is subject to the like restrictions as the power  ofthe Indian Legislature to make laws; and any ordinance	madeunder this section is subject to the like disallowance as anAct passed by the Indian Legislature, and may be  controlledor ,superseded by any such Acts.  "Section 1 (3) of the India and Burma (Emergency	 Provisions)Act, 1940, ran as under:"  Section  seventy-two	 of the	 Government  of	 India	Act,(which,	 as set out in the Ninth Schedule to the  Governmentof India Act, 1935, confers on the Governor-General power tomake  Ordinances in cases of emergency) shall,	as  respectsOrdinances made during the period specified in section threeof  this Act, have effect as if the words "for the space  ofnot  more  than	 six  months  from  its	 promulgation"	wereomitted;  and,	notwithstanding the provision  in  the	saidsection	 seventy-two  that the power  of  making  Ordinancesthereunder is subject to the like restrictions as the  powerof the Indian Legislature to make laws-(a)  Ordinances	 may, during the said period, be made  underthat  section affecting the Army Act, the Air Force Act,  orthe Naval Discipline Act; and(b)  Section  one  hundred and eleven of the  Government  ofIndia Act, 1935 (which exempts certain British subjects fromcertain	 Indian Laws) shall not apply to any ordinance	madeunder the said section seventy-two during that period."Section	 3  referred  to  hereinabove  -was  in	 the   termsfollowing:"  The period referred to in the preceding sections  is	 theperiod	beginning with the date of the passing of  this	 Actand  ending  with such date as His Majesty may by  Order  inCouncil declare to be the end of the emergency which was theoccasion of the passing ofthis Act.  "The  India and Burma (Emergency Provisions) Act,  1940,	 waspassed on June 27, 1940 , and was an Act to639make  emergency	 provisions with respect  to  Government  ofIndia  and  Burma.  On April 1, 1946, was published  in	 theGazette	 of  India  Extraordinary  His	Majesty's  Order  inCouncil	 called	 "  The	 India	and  Burma  (Termination  ofEmergency)  Order, 1946 ". By the said order the  period  ofemergency  referred  to	 in  s. 3 of  the  India  and  Burma(Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940, was declared to have endedon April 1, 1946.  The period specified in s. 3 of the	saidAct thus extended from June 27, 1940, to April 1, 1946.	 TheOrdinance  in question was promulgated on January 12,  1946,and was therefore within the said period.The  argument which was addressed before us by	the  learnedcounsel for the appellant based on these provisions was	 (a)that as soon as the declaration that the emergency was at anend  was  made on April 1, 1946, the original  position	 wasrestored  and  the  Ordinance in  question  which  had	beenpromulgated  in exercise of the emergency powers ipso  factolapsed	when the emergency was declared to have	 ended,	 (b)that,  in  the alternative, s. 72. of the 9th  Sch.  of	 theGovernment  of	India Act, 1935, having been  thus  restoredwith  effect from April 1, 1946, one must look to its  termsas  they originally stood to justify the continuance of	 theordinance in question after April 1, 1946, whensoever it mayhave been promulgated.It  will be useful at this stage to see what was the  schemeprovided in the Government of India Act, 1935, for  enactinglegislative  measures.	 It  may  be  noted  that  the	 Actenvisaged  the	establishment of the  Federation  of  India.Part II, ch. 3 provided for the constitution of the  FederalLegislature  which  was	 to consist of	two  chambers  knownrespectively  as  the  Council of States and  the  House  ofAssembly.  The normal legislative procedure required a	billto be passed by both the Chambers of the Federal Legislatureand  assented  to  by the  Governor-General.   There  was  adistribution  of  legislative  powers  between	the  FederalLegislature and the Provincial Legislatures and the  FederalLegislature  was invested with the power to make  laws	for.the whole or any part of British India or for any  FederatedState with respect to any of the matters enumerated640in  the	 Federal  Legislative List and any  of	the  mattersenumerated  in the Concurrent Legislative List.	  Power	 washowever given, to the Federal Legislature, if the  Governor-General	 in  his discretion declared by a  "Proclamation  ofEmergency"  that  a  grave  emergency  existed	whereby	 thesecurity of India was threatened, whether by war or internaldisturbance, to make laws for a Province or any part thereofwith  respect  to  any	of the	matters	 enumerated  in	 theProvincial  Legislative List.. These were the powers of	 theFederal Legislature to enact legislative measures.The   Governor-General	was,  however,	 conferred   certainlegislative  powers in Part II, ch. 4. Power  was  conferredupon  him to promulgate Ordinances if at any time  when	 theFederal Legislature was not in session he was satisfied thatcircumstances existed which rendered it necessary for him totake immediate action.	Ordinances thus promulgated were  tohave  the  same	 force and effect as  Acts  of	the  FederalLegislature assented to by the Governor-General.  But  everysuch  Ordinance would cease to operate at the expiration  ofsix months from the re-assembly of the Legislature.  Similarpower was conferred upon the Governor-General to  promulgateOrdinances   if	  at  any  time	 he   was   satisfied	thatcircumstances existed which rendered it necessary for him totake  immediate	 action	 for the  purpose  of  enabling	 himsatisfactorily	to discharge his functions in so far  as  hewas  required  in  the	exercise  thereof  to  act  in	 hisdiscretion  or	to exercise his individual  judgment.	SuchOrdinances  also were to have the same force and  effect  asthe  Acts  of  the Federal Legislature assented	 to  by	 theGovernor-General and were to continue in operation for	suchperiod not exceeding six months as may be specified  thereinbut could by subsequent Ordinances be extended for a furtherperiod	not exceeding six months.  Power was also  conferredupon the Governor-General if at any time it appeared to	 himthat  for  the	purpose of enabling  him  satisfactorily  todischarge his functions in so far as he was required in	 theexercise  thereof to act in his discretion or,	to  exercisehis  individual	 judgment it was  essential  that  provisionshould be made by legislation, to enactISUPREME COURT REPORTS			  641Governor-General's Acts which when enacted were to have	 thesame  force  and effect as Acts of the	Federal	 Legislatureassented to by the Governor-General.  These were the speciallegislative powers conferred upon the Governor-General whichcould  be  exercised  by him  when  the	 normal	 legislativeprocedure  could not be resorted to.  It is worthy  of	notehowever that howsoever and under whatever circumstances	 thelegislative  powers  vested  in	 the  Governor-General	wereexercised  by him, the Governor-General's Acts thus  enactedand  the Ordinances thus promulgated were equated  with	 theActs of the Federal Legislature assented to by the Governor-General.Part XIII enacted Transitional Provisions.  A period of timewas bound to elapse between the commencement of Part III  ofthe  Act which related to the Governor's Provinces  and	 theestablishment  of  the	Federation and s.  317	of  the	 Actcontinued  in force certain provisions of the Government  ofIndia Act with amendments consequential on the provisions ofthe  Act  set out in the 9th Sch. thereof until	 the  estab-lishment of the Federation.  Section 72 above quoted  formedpart of the 9th Sch. under the caption " Indian Legislature"and  conferred upon the Governor-General power to  make	 andpromulgate  Ordinances for the peace and good Government  ofBritish	 India	or any part thereof in cases  of  emergency.Ordinances  thus  promulgated  by  the	Governor-General  inexercise  of  the  power thus conferred	 upon  him  were  tocontinue  in  operation for the space of not more  than	 sixmonths from the date of their promulgation and were to	havethe  like  force  of  law  as  Acts  passed  by	 the  IndianLegislature.  They were also equated with the.	Acts  passedby  the	 Indian Legislature by having resort to	 the  normallegislative  procedure	set out in the Government  of  IndiaAct.Even  though the Governor-General's Acts and the  Ordinancespromulgated by him were thus equated with the Acts passed bythe  Federal  Legislature or the Indian Legislature  as	 thecase  may  be,	the period of duration	thereof	 had  to  bedetermined.  Every statute for which no time is limited isI642	   SUPREME COURT REPORTS		    [1957]called	a  perpetual Act, and its duration  is	prima  facieperpetual.   It	 continues in force until  it  is  repealed.(Vide Craies on Statute Law, 5th Ed. p. 374; Halsbury's Lawsof  England, Hailsham Ed., Vol.	 XXXI, p. 511,	para.  664).If an Act contains a proviso that it is to continue in forceonly for a certain specified time, it is called a  TemporaryAct.   This result would follow not only from the  terms  ofthe  Act itself but also from the fact that it was  intendedonly  as  a  temporary measure.	 This ratio  has  also	beenapplied	 to  emergency measures which  continue	 during	 thesubsistence  of the emergency but lapse with  the  cessationthereof.    It	was  therefore	contended  that	  Ordinancespromulgated  under  the	 emergency  powers  vested  in	 theGovernor-General would be in operation during the period  ofemergency  but	would  cease to be  in	operation  once	 theemergency  was declared to have ended.	In the instant	casebefore	us  the	 Ordinance in question	was  promulgated  inexercise  of  the emergency powers vested in  the  Governor-General	 under	s. 72 of the 9th Sch. of the  Government  ofIndia  Act, 1935, and it was urged that the  Ordinance	thuspromulgated  would  cease  to  be  in  operation  after	 theemergency  was declared to have ended on April 1,  1946,  bythe India and Burma (Termination of Emergency) Order,  1946,in  spite of the words of limitation " for the space of	 notmore  than  six months from its promulgation "	having	beenomitted	 from  s.  72  by s. 1(3) of  the  India  and  Burma(Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940.Reliance  was  placed in support of this contention  on	 theobservations  of  Vardachariar	C. J.  in  King	 Emperor  v.Benoari Lall Sharma and others(1): " Legislation by Ordinance has no doubt been given the sameeffect	as  ordinary  legislation and the ambit	 as  to	 thesubject-matter is the same in both cases.  But there are twofundamental  points  of	 difference which  have	 a  materialbearing	 on  the present question: One is that by  the	veryterms of s.72 of the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution Act,the operation of the Ordinance is limited to a period of(1)  [1943] F.C.R. 96, 137.643six  months (and even now it is only temporary,	 though	 theparticular  limit  has been removed), and  secondly,  it  isavowedly the exercise of a special power intended to meet anemergency."Zafrulla  Khan	J. also had expressed himself  to  the	sameeffect in King Emperor v. Sibnath Banerjee (1):"  The legislature can at any time enact a measure and	suchmeasure	 can remain in force without any limit of time;	 butthe exercise of the Ordinance-making power is limited in twoways (1) by the limitation as to the circumstances in  whichit  can be exercised, and (ii) by the limitation as  to	 thetime  during  which  any measure so enacted  can  remain  inoperation.  The	 existence of an emergency  is	a  conditionprecedent  to the exercise of the power.  The fact that	 theCourt  cannot go behind a declaration of emergency  made  bythe Ordinance-making authority cannot affect this  question.The power was intended to be availed of and could be availedof only in an emergency, whereas ordinary legislation is notgoverned by any such limitation.  Similarly, an Ordinance isnecessarily  of	 limited duration, whether under  s.  72  orunder	the  terms  of	the  India  and	  Burma	  (EmergencyProvisions) Act of 1940."An  argument was accordingly addressed before us  that	eventhough the Ordinance in question had been promulgated duringthe  period  specified	in  a. 3  of  the  India  and  Burma(Emergency  Provisions)	 Act, 1940, viz., between  June	 27,1940,  and April 1, 1946, and s. 72 of the 9th Sch.  of	 theGovernment  of	India  Act, 1935, was to be  read  with	 theomission  of the words " for the space of not more than	 sixmonths from its promulgation " therefrom, the effect of suchomission  was not to continue the duration of the  Ordinancein  question  in  any  event  beyond  April  1,	 1946.	 TheOrdinance  lapsed  or  ceased to be  in	 operation  on	the,declaration  having  been made on April 1,  1946,  that	 theemergency had ended.This  argument	however	 ignores  the  fact  that   whateverGovernor-General's Acts were enacted or(1)  [1944] F.C.R. 1, 12.83644Ordinances  promulgated	 by him in exercise of	his  speciallegislative  powers or in exercise of the  emergency_  powerconferred  upon	 him  by  s.  72 of  the  9th  Sch.  of	 theGovernment  of	India Act, 1935, were all equated  with	 theActs  of the Federal Legislature or the Indian	Legislature,as the case may be, assented to by the Governor-General.  Ifthere  was  a  limitation to be found in  the  Acts  or	 theOrdinances themselves in regard to the duration thereof	 thesame  was  to prevail.	But if no time was  limited  in	 theenactment  itself  for its duration it was  to	continue  inforce  until it was repealed.  If by the operation of  s.  1(3) of the India and Burma (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940,the  words " for the space of not more than six months	fromits promulgation " were omitted from s. 72 during the periodspecified  in s. 3 of that Act, viz., June 27,1940 to  April1,  1946, there was no limitation of the period of  durationof  the Ordinance in question and the Ordinance	 having	 thelike force of law as an Act passed by the Indian Legislaturewithout	 any limitation on its duration was to	continue  inforce until it was repealed.  The emergency under which	 theGovernor-General  was  invested with the power to  make	 andpromulgate  Ordinances for the peace and good government  ofBritish	 India	or  any part thereof under  s.	72  was	 thecondition  of the exercise of such power, by  the  Governor-General and did not impose any limitation on the duration ofthe  Ordinances	 thus  promulgated.   For  determining	 theduration  of  such  Ordinances	one  had  to  look  to	 thesubstantive  provisions of s. 72 which in terms enacted	 andlaid  down the limitation of "not more than six months	fromits  promulgation " on the life of the Ordinance.  If  thesewords  had  not been omitted by s. 1 (3) of  the  India	 andBurma (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940, the Ordinances	thuspromulgated -would have been of a duration of not more	thansix  months from their promulgation.  Once these words	wereomitted	 by  a.	 1 (3) of the  India  and  Burma  (EmergencyProvisions)  Act,  1940,  s.  72 of  the  9th  Sch.  of	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935, would read as under:-645The  Governor-General may, in cases of emergency,  make	 andpromulgate  ordinances for the peace and good government  ofBritish India or any part thereof and any ordinance so	madeshall.................. have the like force of law as an Actpassed	by the Indian Legislature; but the power  of  makingordinances  under  this	 section  is  subject  to  the	likerestrictions as the power of the Indian Legislature to	makelaws;  and  the like disallowance as an Act  passed  by	 theIndian	Legislature, and may be controlled or superseded  byany such Act."The effect of the deletion of these words from s. 72 leavingthe section to be read as above had the necessary effect  ofequating the Ordinances which were promulgated between	June27, 1940, and April 1, 1946, with Acts passed by the  IndianLegislature without any limitation of time as regards  theirduration.   Ordinances	thus promulgated were  perpetual  induration  and continued in force until they  were  repealed.This  position was considered by the Federal Court in J.  K.Gas  Plant  Manufacturing Co., (Rampur) Ltd. and  others  v.King Emperor (1) where Spens C. J. observed:-"  These Ordinances were made under the powers conferred  onthe  Governor-General by s. 72 of the Ninth Schedule to	 theConstitution  Act,  as	amended	 by  the  India	 and   Burma(Emergency  Provisions)	 Act, 1940 (3 & 4 Geo. 6,  Ch.	33).Under  the  said s. 72, as it originally  stood,  Ordinanceswere  limited to an effective life of six months  only	fromthe  date of promulgation.  Sub-section (3) of s. I  of	 thesaid  Act, however, provided that in respect  of  Ordinancesmade under s. 72 during the period specified in s. 3 of	 theAct, s. 72 should have effect as if the words ,for the spaceof  not	 more than six months from  its	 promulgation"	wereomitted.   The period specified in s. 3 of the Act is "	 theperiod	beginning with the date of the passing of  this	 Actand  ending  with such date as His Majesty may by  Order  inCouncil declare to be the end of the emergency which was theoccasion  of  the  passing of this Act." The  date  of	`thepassing of the(1)  [1947] F.C.R. 141, 161.646said Act was the 27th June, 1940, and the emergency was	 notnotified to have come to an end on the 1st April, 1946.It  was contended on behalf of the appellants that the	trueconstruction  to  be  given to s. 72 as so  amended  was  ineffect to substitute in s. 72 in respect of the duration  ofan  Ordinance, -the period specified in s. 3 of the Act	 forthe original six months' period and that accordingly on	 theexpiration  of	that period, viz., on the 1st  April,  1946,Ordinances  made after the passing of the Act  automaticallycame  to an end.  It was not made very clear how  one  couldarrive	at such a construction.	 It appears to be  based  onthe  suggestion	 that the power to promulgate  an  Ordinanceunder s. 72 was by the section confined to the existence  ofan emergency, Cf: the words in the sub-section "in cases  ofemergency  ", and that the Act was intituled an Act to	makeemergency provision with respect to the Government of  Indiaand  Burma  and	 defined the period  of	 emergency.   Unlesstherefore  the construction contended for by the  appellantswas accepted no period would be provided for the continuanceof  these  Ordinances,	and that could	not  have  been	 theintention of the legislature, as the ordinance-making  powerof  the Governor-General was recognised as  temporary  only.In  our opinion, the emergency on the happening of which  anOrdinance  can be promulgated is separate and distinct	fromand   must  not	 be  confused  with  the,  emergency   whichoccasioned the pawing of the Act and the clear effect of thewords  of the, Act on s. 72 is that  Ordinances	 promulgatedunder that subsection during the period specified in s. 3 ofthe  Act  are  subject to no time  limit  as  regards  theirexistence  and	validity, unless imposed by  the  Ordinancesthemselves,  or	 other amending	 or  repealing	legislation,whether by Ordinance or other. wise.  In our judgment, it isclear that the second Lahore Tribunal did not cease to existor  to have jurisdiction in the case under appeal by  reasonof  the	 expiration on the 1st April, 1946,  of	 the  periodspecified in s. 3 of the Act in question."In  our	 opinion,  the above observations  of  Spens  C.  J.enunciate the correct position.	 The Ordinance in641question  having been promulgated during the period  betweenJune 27, 1940, 'and April 1, 1946, was perpetual in durationand continued in force until it was repealed.  Our attentionhas not been drawn to any subsequent Ordinance or Act of theIndian Legislature amending or repealing the said  Ordinancewith the result that it continues to be in force and was  inoperation on July 11, 1953, the date on which the offence inquestion was committed by the appellant.This  position	was  recognized in the	Adaptation  of	LawsOrder,	1950, issued under -the Constitution Of	 India.	  Inthe Second Schedule to the said Order were contained severalCentral	 Ordinances enacted between 1940 and 1946  includingthe High Denomination Bank Notes (Demonetisation) Ordinance,1946 (Ordinance No. III of 1946) where in s.. II thereof thewords  " Part A States and Part C States " were to  be	sub-stituted for "the provinces".  It is not necessary to  referto  the other Ordinances appearing in this  compilation	 butsuffice	 it  to say that in respect of	all  the  Ordinanceswhich  were  thus  promulgated by  the	Governor-General  inexercise of the power conferred upon him under s. 72 of	 the9th  Sch.  of  the  Government	of  India  Act,	 1935,	 thecontinuance thereof even after April 1, 1946, was predicatedand  the  adaptations prescribed in the Adaptation  of	LawsOrder,	1950,  issued under the Constitution of	 India	weremade applicable thereto.This  position	is  further supported by  referring  to	 therelevant  provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act,	1934(II  of	 1934).	  Section 26 of that Act  provided  ill	 (1)Subject	 to  the provisions of sub-section (2),	 every	banknote shall be legal tender at any place in India in  paymentor on account for the amount expressed therein, and shall beguaranteed by the Central Government.(2)On  recommendation  of  the	Central	 Board	the  CentralGovernment  may,  by notification in the Gazette  of  India,declare	 that,	with  effect  from  such  date	as  -may  bespecified  in the notification, any series of bank notes  ofany  denomination,  shall cease to be legal tender  save  atsuch  office or a agency of the bank and to such  extent  asmay be specified in the notification.648Under  s. 1 (2) of the Act as it stood, the Act extended  towhole  of  India excepting the State of Jammu  and  Kashmir.The'   High   Denomination   Bank   Notes   (Demonetisation)Ordinance,  1946 (Ordinance No. III of 1946)  declared	thatDenomination  Notes of the denominational value of Rs.	500,Rs. 1,000 or Rs. 10,000 ceased to be legal tender in paymentor on account at any place in British India on the expiry ofJanuary	 12,  1946.   The  Ordinance  having  continued	  inoperation even after the declaration of the emergency havingcome  to  an end was made on April 1, 1946, the	 said  notescontinued to be ineffective as legal tender in India, thoughthe  position  in Jammu and Kashmir in regard  to  the	samecould not be affected by reason of the Reserve Bank of IndiaAct,  1934, not having been made applicable to the State  ofJammu  and Kashmir as stated above.  On September 25,  1956,however, the Jammu and Kashmir (Extension of Laws) Act, 1956(LXII of 1956) being an Act to provide for the extension  ofcertain laws to the State of Jammu and Kashmir was passed bythe  Parliament.  In the Schedule to that Act was  containedthe Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (II of 1934).  The words"  except the State of Jammu and Kashmir" were omitted	froms.  1,	sub-s. (2) and s. 26A was added after s. 26  of	 theAct.Section 26A provides:-,, Notwithstanding anything contained in section 26, no banknote of the denominational value of five hundred rupees, onethousand  rupees  or ten thousand rupees issued	 before	 the13th day of January, 1946, shall be legal tender in  paymentor on account for the -amount expressed therein.The  law  in the State of Jammu and Kashmir with  regard  tothese High Denomination Bank Notes issued before January 13,1946, was thus brought into line with the law as it obtainedin  the rest of India.	This would certainly have  not	beendone  but  for	the  acceptance of  the	 position  that	 theOrdinance  in  question continued in  operation	 even  afterApril  1, 1946, and was in operation right  throughout	evenafter April 1, 1946.649The alternative argument addressed before us by the  learnedcounsel for the appellant need not detain us at all, for thesimple	reason	that reading s. 72 in the  manner  suggestedwould be tantamount to giving a retrospective effect to	 thesection as it originally stood in regard to Ordinances whichhad  been  promulgated between June 27, 1940, and  April  1,1946.	There  is  nothing  to	justify	 such  retrospectiveoperation.   As regards such Ordinances the period of  theirduration   had	to  be	determined  having  regard  to	 theprovisions  of s. 72 as they stood with the omission of	 thewords  " for the space of not more than six months from	 itspromulgation " therefrom during tHe period specified in s. 3of the India and Burma (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1940, andthe  Ordinance in question was therefore not limited to	 thespace  of  not	more than six months from the  date  of	 itspromulgation  but  was perpetual in its	 duration  with	 theresult that it continues in operation until it is  repealed.There is no warrant for reading the provisions of s. 72 withthe omitted words restored to their original position  afterApril  1,  1946,  while	 determining  the  duration  of	 theOrdinances which had been promulgated between June 27, 1940,and April 1, 1946.Both  the contentions urged by the learned counsel  for	 theappellant before us having thus failed, it follows that	 theHigh  Denomination  Bank Notes	(Demonetization)  Ordinance,1946  (Ordinance No. III of 1946) was in operation  on	July11, 1953, the date on which the offence was committed by theappellant  and the appellant was rightly convicted  by	boththe  courts  below.   The  appeal  will	 accordingly   standdismissed.Appeal dismissed.650