PETITIONER:GAZULA DASARATHA RAMA RAO	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/12/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  564		  1961 SCR  (2) 931 CITATOR INFO : R	    1966 SC1571	 (10,11) RF	    1972 SC1586	 (6) R	    1977 SC 876	 (2) RF	    1982 SC1107	 (6,7) RF	    1985 SC 724	 (3) RF	    1987 SC1015	 (17)ACT:Village	 Offices--Village  Munsif--Enactment  Providing	 forselection	 of	   Post	       according	  toheredity--Constitutionality--Madras		  HereditaryVillage--Offices    Act,    1895    (3	  of	1895).	  s.6(1)--Constitution of India, Art. 16(1)(2).HEADNOTE:Village	 P  in the State of Andhra  Pradesh  was  originallycomprised  of a village of the same name and a fairly  largehamlet called PP, but in view of the difficulties in the twobeing	treated	 as  one  unit	for  purposes	of   villageadministration	 the   Board  of  Revenue   sanctioned	 thebifurcation  of	 P  into two villages, P  and  PP.   On	 thedivision  of the village all the hereditary village  officesof the original village ceased to exist under s. 6(1) of theMadras Hereditary Village-Offices Act, 1895, and new officeswere  created for the two villages.  The  section  provided,inter  alia,  that  "in choosing persons to  fill  such	 newoffices	 the Collector shall select the persons whom he	 mayconsider  the best qualified from among the families of	 thelast  holders  of the offices which  have  been	 abolished."Though applications for the post of Village Munsif of PP hadbeen  invited by the Revenue authorities and the  petitioneramong others had made the application, respondent 4 who	 wasthe  son  of the Village Munsif of the old village,  P,	 wasselected  on the ground that in view of s. 6(1) of the	Act,as  the last holder of the office was appointed to  the	 newvillage,  P, after bifurcation, respondent 4 as the  son  ofthe  last holder and nearest heir had a	 preferential  claimfor  the  post	of Village Munsif for  PP.   The  petitionerchallenged  the	 validity  of  the  order  of  the   Revenueauthorities  on the grounds (1) that the office	 of  VillageMunsif was an office under the State, and that the order  infavour of932respondent  4 which expressly stated that they proceeded  onthe  basis of the hereditary principle laid down in s.	6(1)of  the Act, discriminated against him as a citizen  on	 theground	of descent only and violated the guarantee of  equalopportunity  enshrined	in Art. 16 of  the  Constitution  ofIndia,	and (2) that s. 6(1) of the Act, to the extent	thatit  permitted such discrimination was void under Art.  13(1)of  the Constitution.  The plea of the respondents  was	 (1)that the expression "office under the State" in Art. 16	 hadno,  reference to an office like that of the Village  Munsifwhich  in  its origin was a customary village  office  laterrecognised  and regulated by law, and (2) that Art.  16	 didnot  apply to a hereditary office because a person  entitledto  it under the Act had a pre-existing right to the  officeand its emoluments which could be enforced by a suit.Held:	  (1) that a village office like that of the VillageMunsif	was an office under the State within the meaning  ofArt. 16 of the Constitution of India;M.   Ramappa v. Sangappa and otheys, [1959] S.C. R. 1 167,referred  to.(2)  that  a person entitled to an office under s.  6(1)  ofthe  Madras  Hereditary Village-Offices Act, 1895,  did	 nothave  any  pre-existing right to property in  the  shape  ofemoluments of the office, independent or irrespective of theoffice, and consequently to such an office Art. 16  applied;and,(3)  that  s.  6(1)  of	 the Act  embodied  a  principle  ofdiscrimination	on  the ground of descent only	and  was  incontravention of Art. 16(2) of the Constitution.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL  JURISDICTION: Petition No. 133 of 1959.   Petitionunder  Art. 32 of the Constitution of India for	 enforcementof Fundamental Rights.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri and G. Gopalakrishnan,  for	 thepetitioner.D.   Narasa  Raju, Advocate-General, of Andhra	Pradesh,  D.Venkatappayya Sastri and' T. M. Sen, for respondents Nos. 1-3.T. V. R. Tatachari, for respondent'1  No. 4.1960.	December 6. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K. DAS, J.-This is a writ petition under Art. 32 of theConstitution.  Gazula Dasarstha Rama Rao is the	 petitioner.The respondents are (1) the State of Andhra Pradesh, (2) theBoard  of  Revenue,  Andhra Pradesh, (3)  the  Collector  ofGuntur	 in   Andhra  Pradesh  and   (4)   Vishnu   MolakalaChahdramowlesshwara933Rao.  The petitioner prays that this Court must declare s. 6of the Madras Hereditary Village-Offices Act,, 1895  (MadrasAct III of 1895), hereinafter called the Act, as void in  sofar as it infringes the fundamental right of the  petitionerunder Arts. 14 and 16 of the Constitution, and further	asksfor an appropriate writ or direction quashing certain orderspassed	by respondents 1 to 3 in favour of respondent No.  4in the matter of the latter's appointment as Village  Munsifof  a newly constituted village called Peravalipalem.	Whenthis petition first came up for hearing we directed a noticeto go to other States of the Union inasmuch as the  questionraised as to the constitutional validity of the law relatingto  a hereditary village office was of a general nature	 andmight  arise  in relation to the existing laws in  force  inother States.  Except the State of Andhra Pradesh which	 hasentered appearance through its Advocate-General, none of theother States have entered appearance.  The Advocate  Generalof  Andhra Pradesh has appeared for respondents 1 to 3,	 andrespondent  4  has been separately  represented	 before	 us.These  respondents have contested the application  and	havepleaded	 that  s.  6  of  the  Act  does  not  violate	 anyfundamental   right,   nor  are	 the  impugned	 orders	  ofrespondents 1 to 3 invalid in law.The short facts are these: Village Peravali in Tenali  taluqof the district of Guntur in the State of Andhra Pradesh wasoriginally  comprised  of a village of the same name  and  afairly	large  hamlet called Peravalipalem.   The  two	weredivided	 by a big drainage channel.  It is stated  that	 forpurposes  of village administration the villagers felt	somedifficulties  in  the two being treated as one unit  So	 thevillagers,  particularly  those	 of the hamlet,	 but  in  anapplication to the Revenue authorities for constituting	 thehamlet	into a separate village.  This application  was	 re-commended by the Tehsildar and was accepted by the Board  ofRevenue and the State Government.  By an order dated  August25,  1956, Peravali village was bifurcated and two  villageswere constituted.  The118934order  was  published  in the District	Gazette	 on  October115,1956, and was in these terms:"The Board sanctions the bifurcation of Peravali village  ofTenali taluq, Guntur district, into two villages, viz.,	 (1)Peravali and (2) Peravalipalem along the boundary line shownin  the	 map submitted by the Collector of Guntur  with	 hisletter	Re.   A. 4. 28150/55 dated 30th June,  1956.   Theseorders will come into effect from the date of publication inthe District Gazette.2.   The Board sanctions the following establishments on theexisting scale of pay for the two villages:	      Peravali:-	      1 Village Munsif.	      1 Karnam.	      1 Talayari.	      3 Vettians.	      Peravalipalem:-	      1 Village Munsif.	      1 Karnam.	      1 Talayari.	      1 Vettian."It is convenient to read at this stage sub-s. (1) of s. 6 ofthe Act under which the bifurcation was made: "S. 6(1).  In any local area in which this Act is in  forcethe  Board  of	Revenue may subject to rules  made  in	thisbehalf under section 20, group or amalgamate any two or morevillages  or  portions thereof so as to form  a	 single	 newvillage or divide any village into two or more villages and,thereupon,  all hereditary village offices (of	the  classesdefined	 in  section  3, clause (1), of	 this  Act)  in	 thevillages  or  portions	of  villages  or  village   grouped,amalgamated or divided as aforesaid, shall cease to exist  Iand  new offices, which shall also be hereditary  shall	 thecreated	 for  the  new village	or  villages.	In  choosingpersons to fill such new offices, the Collector shall selectthe  persons  whom he may consider the best  qualified	fromamong the families of the last holders of the offices  whichhave been abolished."935On  the division of the village into two villages,  all	 thehereditary village offices of the original village ceased toexist under the aforesaid sub-section, and new offices	werecreated for the two villages.  We are concerned in this casewith the appointment to the office of Village Munsif in	 thenewly  constituted village of Peravalipalem.  In  accordancewith  the  provisions  of sub-s. (1) of	 s.  6	and  certainStanding  Orders  of  the  Board  of  Revenue,	the  RevenueDivisional  Officer,  Tenali, invited applications  for	 thepost of Village Munsif of Peravalipalem.  Eight applicationswere  made  including one by the petitioner and	 another  byrespondent  4.	Respondent 4, be it noted, is a son  of	 theVillage	 Munsif	 of the old village Peravali.  By  an  orderdated  October,	 18, 1956, the Revenue	Divisional  Officer,appointed the petitioner as Village Munsif of Peravalipalem.From the order of the Revenue Divisional Officer, respondent4  and some of the other unsuccessful  applicants  preferredappeals	 to  respondent 3, the Collector of Guntur.   By  anorder  dated April 1, 1957, respondent 3 allowed the  appealof  respondent	4  and appointed him as	 Village  Munsif  ofPeravalipalem.	 In  his order respondent 3 said:  "Shri  V.Chandramowleswara Rao is qualified for the post.  He is	 theson  of	 the  present Village Munsif  of  Peravali  and	 is,therefore, heir to that post...... S. 6(1) of the HereditaryVillage Offices Act states that in choosing a person to filla  new	office of this kind the Collector shall	 select	 theperson	whom he may consider best qualified from  among	 thefamily	of  the	 last holder of the office  which  has	beenabolished.  The	 Village  Munsif's  post  of  the  undividedvillage	 of  Peravali  was abolished when  the	village	 wasdivided and the new post of Village Munsif of  Peravalipalemhas  to be filled up from among the family of  the  previousVillage	 Munsif.   The same instructions  are  contained  inBoard's Standing Order 148(2)."The  petitioner	 then carried an appeal from  the  order  ofrespondent  3  to the Board of Revenue.	 By an	order  datedApril 24, 1958, the Board dismissed the appeal and stated:"According to s. 6, in choosing the person to fill936in  a new office like this, the Collector shall	 select	 theperson	whom  he considers best qualified  from	 among	 thefamilies of the last holders of the office, which have	beenabolished.   Here  the	office of  the	Village	 Munsif	 wasabolished  and	two new offices have been created.   As	 thelast holder of the office was appointed to the new  village,Peravali,  after bifurcation,, the Collector  has  appointedthe  son  of  the last office holder as	 Village  Munsif  ofPeravalipalem  as  he is the nearest  heir.   The  appellantbefore the Board cannot claim any preference over the son ofthe  last office holder.  'The Board, therefore, holds	thatthe  Collector's order is in accordance with the law on	 thesubject.  No interference, is, therefore, called for."The  petitioner	 then  moved  respondent,  1,  but   withoutsuccess.  Thereafter, he filed the present writ petition.The petitioner relies mainly on clauses (1) and (2) of	Art.16 of the Constitution.	 We may read those clauses here:"Art. 16(1).  There shall be equality of opportunity for allcitizens in matters relating to employment or appointment toany office under the State:(2)  No	 citizen shall, on grounds only of  religion,  race,caste,	sex,  descent, place of birth, residence or  any  ofthem, be ineligible for, or discriminated against in respectof, any employment or office under the State."On  behalf of the petitioner it has been contended that	 (1)the  office of Village Munsif of Peravalipalem is an  officeunder the State, and (2) respondents 1 to 3 in passing theirorders in favour of respondent 4 expressly stated that	theyproceeded on the basis of the hereditary principle laid downin  s.	6(1) of the Act and discriminated against him  as  acitizen.   on	the   ground   of   descent   only.	Thisdiscrimination, it is argued violates the guarantee of equalopportunity  enshrined in Art. 16, cls. (1) and (2)- and  s.6(1)  of  the  Act  to	the  extent  that  it  permits	suchdiscrimination is void under Art. 13(1) of the Constitution.The first question before us is if the office of Village937Munsif under the Act is an office under the State within themeaning of cls. (1) and (2) of Art. 16 of the  Constitution.For determining that question it is necessary to examine thescheme	and various provisions of the Act.  The	 long  titleshows that it was an Act made to repeal Madras Regulation VIof  1831 and for other purposes.  The purposes mentioned  inthe   preamble	are-"to	 provide  more	precisely  for	 thesuccession  to	certain hereditary village  offices  in	 theState;	for  the  hearing and disposal	of  claims  to	suchoffices	  or  the  emoluments  annexed	thereto;   for	 theappointment of persons to hold such offices and the  controlof  'the holders thereof, and for certain  other  purposes."Section 3 of the Act refers to classes of village offices towhich  the  Act applies and Village Munsif is  one  of	suchoffices.   Under s. 4 "emoluments" of the office  means	 andincludes (i) lands; (ii) assignment  of revenue	 payable  inrespect of lands; (iii)	 fees	in  money  or	agriculturalproduce; and (iv)   money-salaries  and all other  kinds  ofremuneration granted or continued in respect of, or  annexedto,  any office by the State.  Section 5 lays down that	 theemoluments of village offices, whether such offices be or benot  hereditary,  shall not be liable to be  transferred  orencumbered  in	any manner whatsoever and it  shall  not  belawful	for any Court to attach or sell such  emoluments  orany  portion  thereof  Sub-s. (1) of s.	 6  relates  to	 thegrouping  or division of villages; this sub-section we	havealready read.  Sub-s. (2) of s. 6 gives a right to the Boardof Revenue, subject to the approval of Government, to reducethe  number  of village offices, and on such  reduction	 theCollector is empowered to dispense with the services of	 theofficers no longer required. Sub-s. (3) of6   which   wassubsequently added in 1930 says thatminor  shall not  beineligible for selection by reasonof  his  minority   only.Section	 7 states the circumstances in which  the  Collectormay,  of  his own motion or on complaint and  after  enquirysuspend,  remove  or  dismiss, etc.,  some  of	the  villageofficers mentioned in s. 3. A similar power of punishment isalso  given  to the Tehsildar.	Under these  provisions	 theCollector may suspend, remove938or  dismiss  the  Village  Munsif.   Section  10  lays	downcertain	  rules	  which	 are  to  be  observed	 in   makingappointments to some of the village offices and these  ruleslay  down,  among other things, the  general  qualificationsrequisite  for appointment to the offices in question.	 Forexample, for the appointment to the office of Village Munsifno  person. is eligible unless he has attained the  age	 of.majority, is physically and mentally capable of	 dischargingthe  duties  of the office, has qualified according  to	 theeducational  test prescribed for the office by the Board  ofRevenue,  has not been convicted by a Criminal Court of	 anyoffence which, in the opinion of the Collector, disqualifieshim  for holding the office and has not been dismissed	fromany  post  under  the Government on  any  ground  which	 theCollector considers sufficient to disqualify him for holdingthe  office.  One of the qualifications prescribed by s.  10as  it originally stood required that the applicant must  beof  the	 male  sex.  This requirement  was  deleted  by	 theAdaptation  (Amendment) Order of 1950, presumably  to  bringthe  section  into conformity with Arts. 15 and	 16  of	 theConstitution which prohibit discrimination on the ground  ofsex.   Sub-s.  (2) of s. 10 says that the  succession  shalldevolve on a single heir according to the general custom andrule  of  primogeniture governing succession  to  impartablezamindar  is  in Southern India.' Sub-s. (3) of s.  10	saysthat  where  the next heir is not qualified,  the  Collectorshall appoint the person next in order of succession, who isso qualified, and, in the absence of any such person in	 theline  of succession, may appoint any person duly  qualified.Sub-ss.	 (4),  (5) and (6) of s. 10 deal with  matters	withwhich  we ore not directly concerned.  Section 11 lays	downthe  rules to be observed in making appointments to  certainoffices in proprietary estates and one of the rules is	thatsuccession  shall  devolve  in accordance with	the  law  orcustom applicable to the office in question.  Section 13  ineffect says that any person may sue before the Collector forany  of	 the village offices specified in s. 3	or  for	 therecovery of the emoluments of, any such office on the groundthat he is entitled to hold such office and939enjoy  such  emoluments.   There are some  provisos  to	 thesection	 which	lay down limitations on the right  of  suit.With  those limitations we are not concerned in the  presentcase.	Section	 14 lays down the period of  limitation	 forbringing  a  suit.   Sections 15, 16 and 17  relate  to	 thetransfer  and trial of such suits and the decrees or  ordersto  be	passed therein.	 Section 20 empowers  the  Board  ofRevenue	 to  make rules and s. 21 bars the  jurisdiction  ofCivil Courts.  Section 23 provides for appeals.The  above gives in brief the scheme and provisions  of	 theAct.  These provisions show, in our opinion, that the officeof  Village  Munsif  under the Act is an  office  under	 theState.	 The  appointment  is made  by	the  Collector,	 theemoluments  are	 granted  or continued	by  the	 State,	 theCollector  has disciplinary powers over the  Village  Munsifincluding  the power to remove, suspend or dismiss him,	 thequalifications for appointment can be laid down by the Boardof  Revenue-all these show that the office is not a  privateoffice	under a private employer but is an office under	 theState.	 The  nature of the duties to be  performed  by	 theVillage	 Munsif	 under	different  provisions  of  the	 lawempowering  him	 in that behalf also shows that he  holds  apublic	office.	 He not only aids in collecting the  revenuebut exercises power of a magistrate and of a Civil Judge  inpetty  cases.	He  has also certain  police  duties  as  torepressing and informing about crime, etc.The learned Advocate-General appearing for respondents 1  to3  has	contended  that the expression "  office  under	 theState" in Art. 16 has no reference to an office like that ofthe  Village  Munsif, which in its origin  was	a  customaryvillage	 office later recognised and regulated by law.	 Hiscontention is that the expression has reference to a post ina  Civil 'Service and an ex-cadre post under a	contract  ofservice,,  as are referred to in Arts. 309 and 310  in	PartXIV  of the Constitution relating to the Services under	 theUnion  and  the States.	 He has referred in support  of	 hiscontention to Ilbert's Supplement to the Government of IndiaAct, 1915, p. 261, where a similar940provision  with regard to the Indian Civil Service has	beenreferred  to  as  laying down that  "no	 native	 of  BritishIndia............  is by reason only of his religion,  placeof  birth, descent, or colour, or any of them disabled	fromholding any place, office or employment under His Majesty inIndia"	and  has pointed out that  the	aforesaid  provisionreproduced  s.	87 of the Act of 1833 and  historically	 theoffice	to  which  the provision related was  an  office  oremployment  in	a  Service directly  under  the	 East  IndiaCompany	 or  the Crown.	 He also referred to s. 298  of	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935, which said inter  alia	that"no  subject  of  His Majesty domiciled in  India  shall  ongrounds only of religion, place of birth, descent, colour orany  of	 them be ineligible for office under  the  Crown  inIndia."	 The  argument' of the learned Advocate	 General  isthat  Art.  16 embodies the same principle as  inspired	 theearlier	 provisions referred to above, and like the  earlierprovisions it should be confined to an office or post in  anorganised public Service or an excadre post under a contractof  service directly under the Union or the State.   He	 hasfurther suggested that the deletion of the requirement as tosex  in	 s. 10 of the Act was by reason of Art. 15  and	 notArt. 16 of the Constitution.  The argument is plausible, buton  a  careful consideration we are unable to accept  it  ascorrect.  Even if we assume for the purpose of argument thatArts. 309 and 310 and other Articles in Chapter 1, Part XIV,of  the	 Constitution  relate only to  an  organised  publicService	 like the Indian Administrative Service,  etc.,	 andex-cadre posts under a direct contract of service which havenot  yet been incorporated into a Service, we do  not  thinkthat the scope and effect of cls. (1) and (2) of Art. 16 canbe  out down by reference to the provisions in the  ServicesChapter of the Constitution.Article	 14  enshrines	the fundamental	 right	of  equalitybefore	the law or the equal protection of the	laws  withinthe   territory	  of  India.   It  is  available   to	all,irrespective of whether the person claiming it is a  citizenor not.	 Article 15 prohibits discrimination on some specialgrounds-religion, race, caste, sex, place941of birth or any of them.  It is available to citizens  only,but is not restricted to any employment or office under	 theState.	  Article  16,	cl.  (1),  guarantees  equality	  ofopportunity   for  all	citizens  in  matters  relating	  toemployment or appointment to any office under the State; andel.  (2)  prohibits  discrimination on	certain	 grounds  inrespect	 of  any such employment or appointment.   It  wouldthus  appear  that Art. 14 guarantees the general  right  ofequality; Arts. 15 and 16 are instances of the same right infavour	of citizens in some special circumstances.   Article15  is more general than Art. 16, the latter being  confinedto  matters  relating to employment or	appointment  to	 anyoffice under the State.	 It is also worthy of note that Art.15  does  not  mention 'descent' as one	 of  the  prohibitedgrounds of discrimination, whereas Art. 16 does.  We do	 notsee  any reason why the full ambit of the fundamental  rightguaranteed  by	Art.  16  in the  matter  of  employment  orappointment to any office under the State should be cut downby  a  reference  to  the provisions  in  Part	XIV  of	 theConstitution  which relate to Services or to  provisions  inthe earlier Constitution Acts relating to the same  subject.These  Service	provisions do not enshrine  any	 fundamentalright  of citizens; they relate to  recruitment,  conditionsand  tenure  of service of persons, citizens  or  otherwise,appointed to a Civil Service or to posts in connection	withthe affairs of the Union or any State.	The word 'State', beit  noted, has a different connotation in Part III  relatingto  Fundamental	 Rights:  it  includes	the  Government	 andParliament of India, the Government and Legislature of	eachof the States and all local or other authorities within	 theterritory of India, etc.  Therefore, the scope and ambit  ofthe  Service provisions are to a large extent  distinct	 anddifferent from the scope and ambit of the fundamental  rightguaranteeing  to all citizens an equality of opportunity  inmatters	  of  public  employment.   The	 preamble  to,	 theConstitution states that one of its objects is to secure  toall  citizens  equality of status and opportunity;  Art.  16gives equality of opportunity in matters119942of  public employment.	We think that it would be  wrong  inprinciple  to cut down the amplitude of a fundamental  rightby   reference	to  provisions	which  have  an	  altogetherdifferent scope and purpose.  Article 13 of the Constitutionlays down inter alia that all laws in force in the territoryof   India  immediately	 before	 the  commencement  of	 theConstitution,  in  so  far as  they  are  inconsistent	withfundamental rights, shall to the extent of the inconsistencybe  void.   In that Article 'law' includes custom  or  usagehaving	the  force of law.  Therefore, even if there  was  acustom	which  has been recognised by law with regard  to  ahereditary  village  office,  that custom must	yield  to  afundamental right.  Our attention has also been drawn to cl.(4)  of Art. 16 which enables the State to.  make  provisionfor  the reservation of appointments or posts in  favour  ofany backward class of citizens which, in the opinion of	 theState,	is not adequately represented in the services  underthe  State.   The  argument is that this  clause  refers  toappointments  or  posts	 and  further  talks  of  inadequaterepresentation	in the services, and the  learned  Advocate-General has sought to restrict the scope of cls. (1) and (2)of  Art. 16 by reason of the provisions in el. (4).  We	 arenot concerned in this case with the true scope and effect ofcl.  (4) and we express no opinion with regard to  it.	 Allthat we say is that the expression 'office under the  State'in  cls.  (1) and (2) of Art. 16 must be given	its  naturalmeaning.We  are	 unable, therefore, to accept the  argument  of	 thelearned Advocate-General that the expression " office  underthe State' in Art. 16 has a restricted connotation and	doesnot  include  a,  village office like that  of	the  VillageMunsif.	  In  M.  Ramappa v. Sangappa  and  Others  (1)	 thequestion  arose whether certain village offices governed  bythe  Mysore  Villages  Offices Act, 1908,  were	 offices  ofprofit under the Government of any State within the  meaningof  Art. 191 of the Constitution.  This Court held that	 theoffices	 were  offices of profit under	the  Government	 andsaid."An office has to be held under someone for it is impossibleto conceive of an office held under no one.(1)  [1959] S.C.R, 167943The appointment being by the Government, the office to whichit  is made must be held under it, for there is no one	elseunder  whom it can be held.  The learned Advocate said	thatthe office was held under the village community.  But  such,a  thing  is an impossibility for village  communities	havesince  a  very	long  time, ceased  to	have  any  corporateexistence."Learned	 Counsel for respondent 4 has presented	 a  somewhatdifferent argument on this question.  He has submitted	thatthe  office  of	 Village  Munsif is  not  merely  an  officesimpliciter; but it is an office cum property.	His argumentis  that  Art.	16 does not apply to  a	 hereditary  villageoffice	because a person entitled to it under the Act has  apre-existing  right to the office and its emoluments,  whichhe  can enforce by a suit.  We now proceed to consider	thisargument.Learned Counsel for respondent 4 has relied on the  decisionof this Court in Angurbala Mullick v. Debabrata Mullick	 (1)where  it was held that in the conception of shebaiti  underHindu  law,  both the elements of office  and  property,  ofduties	and  personal  interest, are mixed  up	and  blendedtogether;  and one of the elements cannot be  detached	fromthe  other.   He  has argued that on the  same	analogy	 theoffice of a village Munsif must be held to be an office	 cumproperty.  We do not think that the analogy holds.  As	thisCourt  pointed	out in Kalipada Chakraborti and	 Another  v.Palani Bala Devi and Others (2) shebaitship is property of apeculiar and anomalous character and it is difficult to	 saythat it comes under the category of immovable property as itis known to law.  As to the office of a Village Munsif underthe Act, the provisions of the Act itself and a long line ofdecisions  make it quite clear that what go with the  officeare its emoluments, whether in the shape of land, assignmentof revenue, agricultural produce, money, salary or any otherkind  of  remuneration.	  These emoluments  are	 granted  orcontinued  in respect of, or annexed to, the office  by	 theState.	 This is made clear by s. 4 of the Act.	 Apart	fromthe  office there is no right to the emoluments.   In  otherwords, when a person is appoint-(1) [1951] S.C.R. 1125.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 503.944ed  to	be a "Village Munsif" it is an appointment to  a  anoffice	by the State to be remunerated either by the use  ofland  or  by money, salary, etc.; it is not the	 case  of  agrant of land burdened with service, a distinction which wasexplained  by the Privy Council in  Lakhamgouda	 BasavprabhuSardesai  v. Baswantrao and Others (1).	 In Venkata v.	Rama(2)  where the question for decision was the effect  of	 theenfranchisement	 of  lands  forming the	 emoluments  of	 thehereditary village office of Karnam, it was pointed out:"Emoluments  for the discharge of the duties of	 the  officewere  provided	either	in the shape  of  land	exempt	fromrevenue	 or subject to a lighter assessment, or of  fees  ingrain or cash, or of both land and fees.   .................................................When  the  emoluments consisted of land, the  land  did	 notbecame	the family property of the person appointed  to	 theoffice,	 whether  in virtue of an hereditary  claim  to	 theoffice	or  otherwise.	 It was an appanage  of	 the  officeinalienable  by	 the office holder and designed	 to  be	 theemolument of the officer into whose hands soever the  officemight  pass.   If  the Revenue authorities  thought  fit  todisregard  the claim of a person who asserted an  hereditaryright  to  the office and conferred it on  a  stranger,	 theperson	appointed to the office at once become	entitled  tothe lands which constituted its emolument."The  same view was re-affirmed in, Musti  Venkata  JagannadaSharma v. Musti Veerabhadrayya (3) where the history of	 theoffice	of Karnam was examined and it was observed that	 the"Karnam of the village occupies his office not by hereditaryor  family  right,  but as  personal  appointee,  though  incertain	 cases	that appointment is primarily  exercised  infavour of a suitable person who is a member of a  particularfamily." This latter decision was considered by a Full Benchof  the Madras High Court in Manubolu Ranga Reddi  v.  MaramReddi Dasaradharami.  Reddi (4)(1)  A.I.R. 1931 P.C. 157.(3)  A.I.R. 1922 P.C. 96.(2)  I.L.R. 8 'Mad. 249.(4)  I.L.R. [1938] Mad. 249.945and  it	 was pointed out that their Lordships of  the  PrivyCouncil, though they indicated the nature of the right whichthe  Karnam had, did not consider the' question	 whether  onthe creation of an office under s. 6(1), the members of	 thefamily	of the last holder of the abolished office  had	 theright  to  compel the Collector to carry out the  duty	castupon him by the section.  It was held that s. 6(1) creates aright in the family which can be enforced by suit.   LearnedCounsel for respondent 4 has relied on this decision.  It isworthy of note, however, that the decision was given on	 thefooting	 that s. 6(1) was valid and mandatory in  character.No  question  arose  or	 could at that	time  arise  of	 thecontravention  of  a  fundamental right	 guaranteed  by	 theConstitution,  by_ the hereditary principle embodied  in  s.6(1) of the Act.  The decision proceeded on the footing thatthe  Act  recognised  a 'right vested in a  family'  to	 theoffice in question and contained provisions to enforce	thatright.	It did not proceed upon the footing that the  familyhad  a	right to the property in the  shape  of	 emoluments,independent or irrespective of the office.  In other  words,the  decision  cannot  be  relied upon	in  support  of	 thecontention  that  a  hereditary village	 office	 is  like  ashebaiti,  that is, office cum property.  That was  not	 theratio  of the decision.	 The ratio simply was this that	 theAct  bad  recognised  the right vested in a  family  to	 theoffice in question.  That decision cannot assist  respondent4  in support of his contention that Art. 16, cls.  (1)	 and(2),  do not apply to the office, even though the office  isan office under the State.  In Ramachandurani purshotham  v.Ramachandurani	Venkatappa and Another (1) the question	 waswhether	 the  office  of Karnam was  'property'	 within	 themeaning	 of Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution.	It was	heldthat it was not property within the meaning of that Article.The  same view was expressed in Pasala Rama Rao v. Board  ofRevenue (2) where if was observed that the right to  succeedto  a  hereditary office was not property and  the  relationback  of  an adopted son's rights was only  with  regard  toproperty.(1) A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 150.(2) A.I.R. 1954 Mad. 483.946This view was not accepted in Chandra Chowdary v. The  Boardof Revenue (1) where it was observed that the fact that	 theadoption was posthumous did not make any difference and	 theadoption  being to the last office holder, the	adopted	 sonmust be deemed to have been in existence at the time of	 thedeath of the male holder and had the right to succeed to theoffice.	  It  was  further observed that  the  office  of  aVillage Munsif was 'property' so as to attract the operationof  the rule that the adoption related back to the  date  ofthe death of the last male holder.  We are not concerned  inthis  case with the doctrine of relation back in the  matterof a posthumous adoption.  The simple question before us  iswhether the office, though it is an office under the  State,is of such a nature that cls. (1) and (2) of Art. 16 of	 theConstitution  are not attracted to it.	We are of  the	viewthat  there  is nothing in the nature of  the  office  whichtakes it out of the ambit of cls. (1) and (2) of Art. 16  ofthe  Constitution.   An office has its	emoluments,  and  itwould  be wrong to hold that though the office is an  officeunder  the  State,  it is not within the ambit	of  Art.  16because	 at  a	time  prior to	the  Constitution,  the	 lawrecognised a custom by which there was a preferential  rightto  the office in the members of a particular  family.	 Thereal  question	is-is that custom which	 is  recognised	 andregulated  by the Act consistent with the fundamental  rightguaranteed by Art. 16?	We do not agree with learned Counselfor respondent 4 that the family had: any pre-existing rightto  property in the shape of the emoluments of	the  office,independent or irrespective of the office.  If there was  nosuch  pre-existing right to property apart from the  office,then the answer must clearly be that Art. 16 applies and  s.6(1)  of the Act in so far as it makes a  discrimination  onthe ground of descent only, is violative of the	 fundamentalright of the petitioner.There can be no doubt that s. 6(1) of the Act does embody  aprinciple  of discrimination on the ground of descent  only.It  says  that	in  choosing the persons  to  fill  the	 newoffices, the Collector shall select the persons whom he	 mayconsider the best qualified from(1)  A.I.R. 1959 Andhra Pradesh 343.947among the families of the last holders of the offices  whichhave   been   abolished.    This,   in	 our   opinion,	  isdiscrimination	on  the	 ground of descent only	 and  is  incontravention of Art. 16(2) of the Constitution.Learned Counsel for respondent 4 has also submitted that thepetitioner  cannot be permitted to assert the invalidity  ofs.  6(1) of the Act when he himself made an application	 forappointment  as Village Munsif under the Act.  He has  drawnour  attention to the decision in Bapatla Venkata Subba	 Raov,  Sikharam Ramakrishna Rao(1).  That was a case where	 theappellant was appointed as a hereditary Karnam under the Actand  but for the Act, he would not have had any claim to  beappointed  to  the office of Karnam.  It was  held  that  hecould  not  be permitted to contend for the  first  time  inappeal that the very Act but for which he would not have hadany  right to the office, was unconstitutional.	 Apart	fromthe  question whether a fundamental right can be  waived,  aquestion which does not fall for consideration in this case,it  is	clear  to  us  that  the  facts	 here  are  entirelydifferent.   The  petitioner  had  the	right  to  make	  anapplication  for the new village office and he was  acceptedby  the	 Revenue Divisional Officer.  Respondents  1  to  3,however,  passed  orders  adverse to him and  in  favour  ofrespondent 4, :acting on the principle of discrimination  onthe  ground  of descent only as embodied in s. 6(1)  of	 theAct.  It is, we think, open to the petitioner to say that s.6(1)  of  the Act in so far as it violates  his	 fundamentalright  guaranteed under Art. 16 of the Constitution is	voidand  his  application for appointment  must,  therefore,  bedecided on merits.Finally,  we must notice one other argument advanced by	 thelearned	 Advocate-General on behalf of respondents 1  to  3.The  argument is based on the distinction between  Arts.  15and  16.   We  have said earlier that Art.  15	is,  in	 onerespect, more general than Art. 16 because its operation  isnot  restricted	 to public employment; it  operates  in	 theentire field of State discrimination.  But in another sense,with(1)  A.I.R. 1958 Andhra Pradesh 322.948regard to the grounds of discrimination, it is perhaps	lesswide  than Art. 16, because it does not include	 ,  descent'amongst the grounds of discrimination.	The argument  beforeus  is	that  the provision impugned in this  case  must  betested	in  the	 light of Art. 15 and not Art.	16.   It  issubmitted  by the learned Advocate General that	 the  largervariety	 of grounds mentioned in Art. 16 should lead  us  tothe conclusion that Art. 16 does not apply to offices  wherethe  law recognises a right based on descent.	We  considerthat  such  an argument assumes as correct  the	 very  pointwhich  is  disputed.   If we assume that Art.  16  does	 notapply, then the question itself is decided.  But why  shouldwe  make  that assumptions If the office in question  is  anoffice	under  the  State, then Art. 16	 in  terms  applies;therefore,  the	 question is whether the office	 of  VillageMunsif	is an office under the State.  We have held that  itis.  It is perhaps necessary to point out here that cl.	 (5)of  Art.  16  shows  that the  Article	does  not  bear	 therestricted  meaning which the learned  Advocate-General	 hascanvassed  for;	 because  an  incumbent	 of  an	 office	  inconnexion   with   the	 affairs   of	any   religious	  ordenominational institution need not necessarily be a  memberof the Civil Service.For  the  reasons given above, we allow the  petition.	 Theorders	of respondents 1 to 3 in respect of the	 appointmentto the post of Village Munsif of Peravalipalem in favour  ofrespondent   4	are  set  aside	 and  we  direct  that	 theapplication  of	 the petitioner for the said office  be	 nowconsidered on merits by the Revenue authorities concerned onthe  footing  that  s.	6(1) of the Act	 in  so	 far  as  itinfringes  the fundamental right of the citizens  of  India.under  Art. 16 of the Constitution is void.  The  petitionerwill be entitled to his costs of the hearing in this Court.					Petition allowed.949