PETITIONER:RAJA NARAYANLAL BANSILAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:MANECK PHIROZ MISTRY AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/08/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)WANCHOO, K.N.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR   29		  1961 SCR  (1) 417 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC1552	 (10) R	    1967 SC 295	 (10,72) RF	    1969 SC 707	 (42) RF	    1970 SC 940	 (13,14) F	    1973 SC1196	 (19) R	    1978 SC1025	 (34,35) RF	    1981 SC 379	 (67) D	    1988 SC 113	 (5)ACT:Company-Investigation  into affairs  of-Inspector  appointedunder  old  Act,  if  can exercise  powers  under  new	Act-Constitution-Testimonial  compulsion-Whether Provisions	 forProduction of documents and evidence offend  guarantee-Equalprotection  of the law-If provisions for  investigation	 andProduction  of	evidence offend	 guarantee-Indian  CompaniesAct,  1913 (VII of 1913), S. 138 Companies Act, 1956  (1  of1956),	SS.  235,  239, 240, 645 and  646,  Constitution  ofIndia, Arts. 14 and 20(3).HEADNOTE:On November 15, 1954, the Registrar wrote to the company  ofwhich  the  appellant was the Managing Agent under  s.	137,Indian Companies Act, 1913, that it had been represented  tohim that the business of the company was carried on in fraudand called upon it to furnish certain information.  On April15,  1955,  the	 Registrar  made a  report  to	the  CentralGovernment under s. 137(5) to the effect that in his opinionthe  affairs  of  the company were carried on  in  fraud  ofcontributories and they disclosed an unsatisfactory state ofaffairs	  and  that  a	case  had  been	 made  out  for	  aninvestigation	under  s.  138.	  Thereupon,   the   CentralGovernment,  on November 1, 1955, appointed an Inspector  toinvestigate  the  affairs  of  the  company  and  to  reportthereon.   The	Inspector  was authorised under	 s.  140  toexamine	 any person on oath, and he wrote to  the  appellantthat  he  would	 examine  him on oath  in  relation  to	 thebusiness  of  the  company.  On April 1,  1956,	 the  IndianCompanies  Act, 1913, was repealed by the  Indian  CompaniesAct, 1956, which conferred wider and more drastic powers  ofinvestigation.	 On  July 26, 1956, the	 Central  Governmentaccorded  approval  under s. 239(2) of the new	Act  to	 theInspector  exercising his powers of investigating  into	 andreporting  on the affairs of the company.  In May  1957	 theInspector served notices upon the appellant calling upon himto attend his office on the date and the time specified	 forthe purpose of being examined on oath and to produce certainaccount	 books	and  papers relating to	 the  company.	 Theappellant  challenged the investigation and contended :	 (i)that since the Inspector was appointed under the old Act  hehad no jurisdiction to exercise the powers referable to	 theprovisions  of the new Act, (ii) that s. 240 of the new	 Actwhich provided for the production of documents and, evidenceat   such   investigations  offended  Art.  20(3)   of	 theConstitution,  and  (iii) that S. 239 of the new  Act  whichconferred powers on inspectors for investigation and S.	 240offended Art. 14 of the Constitution.418Held,  that the Inspector appointed under S. 138(4)  of	 theold  Act must be deemed to have been appointed under s.	 235of the new Act and had authority and power to issue  noticesunder  S.  240 of the new Act.	Section 645 of the  new	 Actprovided that the appointment of an Inspector under the	 oldAct shall, on repeal of the old Act and on coming into forceof  the new Act, have	 effect as if it was made under	 thenew Act.  Section 646 which provided that nothing in the newAct  shall affect the operation of S. T38 of the old Act  asrespects  inspectors was not an exception or proviso  to  S.645  and  the two sections being saving sections had  to  beread  as  independent  of and in addition  to,	and  not  asexceptions to, each other.Held, further that S. 240 of Indian Companies Act, 1956, didnot offend Art. 20(3) of the Constitution.  For invoking theconstitutional	 right	 against   testimonial	  compulsionguaranteed  under Art. 20(3) there must be at  the  relevantstage  a  formal accusation against the party  pleading	 theguarantee relating to the commission of an offence which mayresult	in a prosecution.  The enquiry undertaken  under  S.240  by the Inspector was in substance an enquiry  into	 theaffairs	 of  the  company;  at	this  stage  there  was	  noaccusation,  formal  or	 otherwise,  against  any  specifiedindividual.  The mere fact that a prosecution may ultimatelybe   launched  against	the  alleged  offenders	 would	 notretrospectively	 change the complexion or character  of	 theproceedings  held  by  the  Inspector  when  he	 makes	 theinvestigation.Maqbool	 Hussain v. The State of Bombay, [1953] S.C.R.	730,S.   A.	 Venkataraman v. The Union of India,  [1954]  S.C.R.1150, M.  P. Sharma v. Satish Chandra, District	 Magistrate,Delhi, [1954] S.C.R. 1077, Thomas Dana v. State	 of  Punjab,[1959]	Supp.	1 S.C.R. 274 and Mohammed  Dastagir  v.	 TheState of Madras, [1960] 3 S.C.R. 116, relied on.Held,  further that SS. 239 and 240 of the Indian  CompaniesAct,  1956,  did not violate Art. 14  of  the  Constitution.These  sections denied the company and persons in charge  ofthe  management	 of such companies the	ordinary  protectionafforded  to witnesses under S. 132 of the Evidence Act	 andunder S. 161(1) and (2) of the Criminal Procedure Code.	  Asthey were entrusted with the financial interests of a  largenumber of citizens it was legitimate to treat such companiesand  their managers as a class by themselves and to  providefor  necessary safeguards and checks against abuse of  powerby the managers.  The basis of the classification is foundedon an intelligible differentia which has a rational relationto the object sought to be achieved.Shri Ram Krishna Dalmia v. justice Tendolkar, [1959]  S.C.R.297, applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 268 of 1959.			    419Appeal from the judgment and decree dated September 3, 1958,of the former Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 28/1958.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, Ganpat Rai and I. N. Shroff,	 forthe appellant.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and  T.M. Sen, for the respondents.1960.	August 31.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR J.-The appellant Raja Narayanlal Bansilal  ofBombay is the Managing Agent of a Limited Company named	 theHarinagar  Sugar  Mills	 Limited.  By virtue  of  the  powerconferred on him by s. 137 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913(VII of 1913), the Registrar wrote to the mills on  November15,  1954,  that  it had been represented to  him  under  s.137(6)	that the business of the company was carried  on  infraud,	and  so he called upon the company  to	furnish	 theinformation  which he required as set out in a part  of	 hisletter	(Ex.  A).  On April 15, 1955, the Registrar  made  areport	(Ex.  AA) to the Central Government under s.  137(5)of  the said Act.  This report showed that according to	 theRegistrar  the	affairs of the company were  carried  on  infraud of contributories and they disclosed an unsatisfactorystate of affairs.  The report pointed out that the appellantwas  the  Managing  Agent  of the company  as  well  as	 itspromoter, and that it was suspected that under a  fictitiousname  of Bansilal Uchant Account the company  was  advancingmoney to the several firms owned by the appellant which wereostensibly  purchased from the company's funds.	 The  reportfurther	 stated that between the years ending in  September,1942 and 1951 about Rs. 19,200 were paid for Harpur Farm andRs.;.  39,300  for Bhavanipur Farm, and	 accounts  disclosedthat  the  Uchant  Account was	chiefly	 operated  upon	 forpurchasing such lands out of the funds of the company thoughthe purchase in fact was for and on behalf of the appellant.The Registrar also added that he had reason to believe	thatthe Managing54420Agent  was  utilising the property of the  company  in	somecases  for  his personal gain, and concluded  that,  in	 hisopinion, a case had been made out for an investigation unders. 138.On receiving this report, on November 1, 1955, the  'CentralGovernment  passed an order under s. 138(4) of the said	 Act(Ex.   B) appointing the first respondent Maneck P.  Mistry,who   is  a  Chartered	Accountant,  as	 an   inspector	  toinvestigate the affairs of the company from the date of	 itsincorporation.	 The said inspector was asked to  point	 outall  irregularities and contraventions of the provisions  ofthe  said  Act or any other law, and make a full  report  asindicated  in a communication which was separately  sent  tohim.   This separate communication (Ex.	 BB) prescribes	 themode  of enquiry which should be adopted by inspectors.	  Itrequires  that while investigating the affairs of  companiesthe  inspectors	 should bear in mind that for  a  successfulprosecution  the  evidence in support of a  charge  must  beclear,	tangible and cogent, and that their  reports  shouldspecify with reference to the evidence collected during	 theinvestigations the points specified under paragraph 2(a)  to(e).   In the course of their investigation  the  inspectorsare asked to make use of the powers available to them  unders. 140 of the said Act including the right to examine a per-son  on	 oath.	 The investigation should  be  conducted  inprivate	 and the inspectors are not entitled to make  publicthe  information received by them during the course  of	 theinvestigation.Pursuant  to the powers conferred on him by the	 said  orderrespondent  1 wrote to the appellant intimating to him	thathe would examine him on oath in relation to the business  ofthe  company  under  s. 140(2) of the  said  Act  (Ex.	 C).Meanwhile  on April 1, 1956, the Companies Act of 1913	(VIIof  1913) was repealed by  the Companies Act of 1956  (1  of1956).	For the sake of convenience we would hereafter referto  the repealed Act as the old Act and the Act	 which	cameinto  force on April 1, 1956, as the new Act.  On  July	 26,1956, the Central Government purported to exercise its powerunder s. 239(2) of the new Act and421accorded  approval to respondent 1 exercising his powers  ofinvestigating  into,  and reporting on, the affairs  of	 theappellant  including his personal books of accounts as	wellas the affairs of the three concerns specified in the order.These three concerns are M/s.  Narayanlal Bansilal, who	 arethe Managing Agents of Harinagar Sugar Mills, the  ShangrilaFood Pro ducts Limited and, Harinagar Cane Farm.  It appearsthat  the  appellant  is  the  proprietor  of  the  firm  ofNarayanlal Bansilal.  After this order was passed respondent1  served upon the appellant the four impugned notices	(Ex.E  collectively) on May 9, 1957, May 16, 1957, May 29,	1957and   June  29,	 1957,	respectively.	These  notices	 aresubstantially  identical  in  terms'  and  so  it  would  besufficient for our purpose to set out the purport of one  ofthem.  The first notice called upon the appellant to attendthe  office  of	 respondent 1 on the date and  at  the	timespecified  for	the  purpose of being examined	on  oath  inrelation  to  the  affairs of the company,  and	 to  producebefore	respondent  1 all the books of accounts	 and  papersrelating  to  the said company as mentioned in	the  notice.The appellant was further told that in default of compliancewith  the requisition aforesaid necessary legal steps  wouldbe  taken  without  further reference to  him.	 The  noticecontains  a  list  of twelve items  describing	the  severaldocuments which the appellant was required to produce beforerespondent 1.After these notices were served on the appellant he filed a,petition  (No.	201 of 1957) in the Bombay  High  Court	 andprayed that the High Court should issue a writ of certiorarior any other appropriate direction, order or writ under Art.226 of the Constitution calling upon respondent 1 to producethe records of the case relating to the notices in  questionand to set aside the said notices, the proposed	 examinationof  the	 appellant and the interim report made by  him.	  Itfurther	 prayed	 for  a writ of	 prohibition  or  any  otherappropriate direction, order or writ restraining  respondent1  from making any investigation under the said notices	 andfrom  exercising  any powers of investigation under  s.	 239and/or s. 240 of the new Act and/or122from  investigating  into  the affairs	of  any	 persons  orconcerns specified in the petition.  The petitioner  claimedthese  writs mainly on two grounds.  He first  alleged	thatsince  respondent 1 had been appointed under the old Act  hehad  no	 jurisdiction to exercise powers  referable  to	 therelevant  provisions  of the new Act.  This  ground  assumedthat the said relevant provisions of the new Act are  valid,but  it	 is  urged that the powers  referable  to  the	saidprovisions  are not available to respondent 1 since  he	 wasappointed under the old Act.  The other ground on which	 thewrits  were claimed challenges the vires of ss. 239 and	 240of the new Act.	 This challenge assumed an alternative form.It is argued that s. 240 offends against the  constitutionalguarantee provided by Art. 20(3) of the Constitution and  itis  also  urged	 that certain portions of ss.  239  and	 240offend against another constitutional guarantee provided  byArt.  14  of the Constitution.	It is thus  on	these  threecontentions that the petitioner claimed appropriate writs byhis petition before the Bombay High Court.  These pleas wereresisted by the Union of India which had been joined to	 theproceedings  as respondent 2. Mr. Justice K. T.	 Desai,	 whoheard  the petition, rejected the contentions raised by	 thepetitioner, and held that no case had been made out for	 theissue  of  any writ.  This decision was	 challenged  by	 theappellant  before  the Court of Appeal in  the	Bombay	HighCourt;	the  Court of Appeal agreed with the view  taken  byDesai,	 J.,  and  dismissed  the  appeal.   Thereupon	 theappellant  applied for and obtained a certificate  from	 theHigh Court, and it is with the said certificate that he	 hascome to this Court by his present appeal.  On his behalf Mr.Viswanatha  Sastri has raised the same three points for	 ourdecision.Let  us first examine the question whether or not the  firstrespondent has jurisdiction to exercise the powers under therelevant  provisions  of the new Act.  It is  common  groundthat  if respondent 1's powers to bold the investigation  inquestion  are to be found in the relevant provisions of	 theold  Act and not those of the new Act the  impugned  noticesissued by him would be			    423without	 authority and jurisdiction.  In dealing  with	thisquestion  it is necessary to examine the broad	features  ofthe relevant sections of the two Acts.We will begin with the old Act.	 Section 137 of the old	 Actdeals  with investigation by the Registrar.  Section  137(1)provides  that	where  the  Registrar  on'  perusal  of	 anydocument which a company is required to submit to him is  ofopinion that any information or explanation is necessary  inorder that such document may afford full particulars of	 thematter	to which it purports to relate he may, by a  writtenorder,	call  on  the  company to  furnish  in	writing	 thenecessary  information or explanation within the time to  bespecified  in  the  order.   Section  137(5)  requires	 theRegistrar  to  make  a	report in  writing  to	the  CentralGovernment  if no information is supplied to him within	 thespecified  time,  or  if the  information  supplied  to	 himappears	 to  him  to disclose  an  unsatisfactory  state  ofaffairs,  or does not disclose a full and fair statement  ofthe  relevant matters.	Thus s. 137(1) to (5) deal with	 theinvestigation which the Registrar is empowered to make on  apersual of the document submitted to him by a company  underthe  provisions	 of this Act.  Section 137(6) deals  with  acase  where  if	 it  is	 represented  to  the  Registrar  onmaterials placed before him by any contributory or  creditorthat the business of a company is carried on in fraud or  infraud  of its creditors or in fraud of persons dealing	withthe  company  or  for a fraudulent purpose,  he	 may,  afterfollowing the procedure prescribed in that behalf, call	 forinformation or explanation on matters to be specified in hisorder within such time as he may fix, and when such an orderis  passed  the	 provisions of s. 137(2)  to  (5)  would  beapplicable.  This sub-section provides that if at the end ofthe  investigation  the	 Registrar  is	satisfied  that	 therepresentation	on  which he took action  was  frivolous  orvexatious he shall disclose the identity of the informant tothe  company.	This provision is obviously  intended  as  asafeguard against frivolous or vexatious representations  inrespect	 of the affairs of any company.	 The  provisions  ofthis section are substantially similar to the provisions  ofs. 234 of the new Act.424affairs	 of companies by inspectors, authorises the  CentralGovernment  to appoint one or more competent  inspectors  toinvestigate the affairs of any company and report thereon insuch  manner  as  the  said  ,Government  may  direct.	 Theappointment  of	 competent  inspectors can be  made  by	 theCentral Government in four classes of cases as specified  ins.  138(1) to (4).  It would be relevant to refer to two  ofthese  cases.  Under s. 138(1) a competent inspector can  beappointed  in the case of a banking company having  a  sharecapital on the application of members holding not less	thanone-fifth  of the shares issued, and under s. 138(4) in	 thecase  of any company on a report by the Registrar  under  s.137(5).	 This section substantially corresponds to s. 235 ofthe new Act.The other sections of the old Act to which reference must bemade are ss. 140, 141 and 141A.	 Section 140(1) imposes uponall persons who are. or have been officers of the company anobligation  to produce before the inspectors all  books	 anddocuments in their custody or power relating to the company.Section 140(2) empowers the inspector to examine on oath anysuch person, meaning a person who is or has been an  officerof  the company in relation to the business of	the  companyand  to administer an oath to him.  Section 140(3)  providesthat if a person refuses to produce a book or a document  orto  answer  any question he shall be liable to	a  fine	 notexceeding  Rs. 50 in respect of each offence.	Section	 141provides  that	on the conclusion of  an  investigation	 theinspectors  shall  report  their  opinions  to	the  CentralGovernment, and shall forward a copy of their report to	 theregistered office of the company ; and it also provides thata copy of the said report can be delivered at their  requestto  the applicants for the investigation.  Then we  have  s.141A  which  deals  with the  institution  of  prosecutions.Section 141A(1) provides that if from any report made  unders. 138 it appears to the Central Government that any  personhas  been guilty of any offence in relation to	the  companyfor  which  he is criminally liable the	 Central  Governmentshall refer the			    425matter	to  the Advocate-General or the	 Public	 Prosecutor.Section	 141A(2)  lays down that if the law officer  who  isconsulted under (1) considers that there is a case in  whichprosecution   ought   to  be  instituted  he   shall   causeproceedings to be instituted accordingly-, That in brief  isthe scheme of the relevant provisions of the old Act.We will now examine the scheme of the relevant provisions ofthe  new Act.  It has already been noticed that ss. 234	 and235 of the new Act are substantially similar to ss. 137	 and138 of the old Act.  Section 239 of the new Act provides forthe powers of the inspectors to carry on investigation	intothe  affairs  of related companies or of managing  agent  orassociate.   The  sweep of the enquiry	authorised  by	thissection is very much wider than that under the correspondingsection	 of  the old Act.  Sub-section (1) of  this  sectionauthorises  an	inspector to investigate the  affairs  of  acompany and also the affairs of any other body corporate  orperson	specified  in  cls.  (a) to  (d)  if  he  thinks  itnecessary so to do.  These clauses include several cases  ofbody  corporate	 which	may have any  connection  direct  orindirect,  immediate  or  remote, with the   affair  of	 thecompany	 whose	affairs	 are  under  investigation.   It  isunnecessary  for  our  purpose	in  the	 present  appeal  toenumerate  the said cases serially or exhaustively.   It  isconceded  that the three other persons who have been  calledupon by respondent 1 to produce documents and give  evidencefall  within  the  purview of s. 239.  As a  result  of	 theprovisions of s. 239(1) the inspector has to report not onlyon  the affairs of the company under investigation but	alsoon  the	 affairs of other bodies or persons  who  have	beencompelled to give evidence and produce documents during	 thecourse of the enquiry.	The only safeguard provided  againsta  possible abuse of these extensive powers is that  in	 thecase  of  any body corporate or person referred to  in	cls.(b)(ii),  (b)(iii),  (c) or (d) of subs. (1)  the  inspectorshall  not exercise his relevant power without first  havingobtained  the  prior  approval	of  the	 Central  Governmentthereto.Section 240 of the new Act imposes an obligation426on  the corporate bodies and persons in respect of which  orwhom  investigation is authorised by s. 239 to	produce	 allbooks  and papers and to give all assistance  in  connectionwith  the  said	 investigation ; that is the  result  of  s.240(1).	 Section 240(2) empowers the inspector to examine onoath  any  of  the  persons referred to	 in  sub-s.  (1)  inrelation  to  the relevant matters  as	specified.   Section240(3)	deals with a case where a person refuses  to  complywith the obligation imposed on him by s. 240(1) or (2) ; andit  provides that in such a case the inspector	may  certifythe  refusal under his hand to the court, and the court	 maythereupon  enquire into the case, hear witnesses who may  beproduced  against  or  on behalf of  the  alleged  offender,consider any statement which may be offered in defence,	 andpunish the offender as if he had been guilty of contempt  ofthe  court.   Section  240(4) deals with a  case  where	 theinspector  thinks  it  necessary  for  the  purpose  of	 hisinvestigation that a person whom he has no power to  examineon oath should be .examined, and it provides that in such  acase  he  may apply to the court, and the court may,  if  itthinks	fit, order that person to attend and be examined  onoath before it on any matter relevant to the  investigation.This  sub-section provides for the procedure to be  followedin examining such a witness.  Section 240(5) lays down	thatnotes  of any examination under sub-s. (2) or (4)  shall  betaken down in writing, and shall be read over to or by,	 andsigned	by, the person examined, and may thereafter be	usedas  evidence  against  him.   Having  thus  made   elaborateprovisions  for the production of documents and evidence  inthe  course  of the investigation by the inspector,  s.	 241deals	with  the  inspectors'	report	and  provides	thatinspectors may, and if so directed by the Central Governmentshall,	make interim reports to that Government, and on	 theconclusion of the investigation shall make a final report toit.   Section 241(2) provides for the supply of the copy  ofthe  said  report  to  the  several  parties  concerned	  asspecified in cls. (a) to (e).That  takes  us	 to s. 242  which  deals  with	prosecution.Section 242(1) provides inter alia that if from			    427any  report  made  under a. 241 it appears  to	the  CentralGovernment  that any person has in relation to	the  companybeen  guilty  of  any offence for  which  he  is  criminallyliable, the Central Government may, after taking such  legaladvice	as  it	thinks fit, prosecute such  person  for	 theoffence,  and it imposes on all officers, and agents of	 thecompany,  except  those	 prosecuted,  to  give	the  CentralGovernment all assistance in connection with the prosecutionwhich they are reasonably able to give.	 That broadly statedis  the position with regard to the relevant  provisions  ofthe new Act.Mr. Sastri has drawn our pointed attention to the fact	thatthe  scope and nature of the enquiry authorised by  the	 newAct  are very much wider than under the old Act, and he	 hascharacterised	the  relevant  ,powers	conferred   on	 theinvestigating  inspectors  as  draconian.   He,	  therefore,contends that unless it is established that these powers areavailable  to  the inspector appointed	under  the  relevantprovisions  of the old Act the impugned notices must be	 setaside;	and  his  argument  is that  these  powers  are	 notavailable to the inspector appointed under the old Act.	 Thedecision  of  this question will depend mainly on  the	con-struction of ss. 645 and 646 of the new Act.Section	 644  provides	for the	 repeal	 of  the  enactmentsmentioned  in  Schedule	 XII;  the old Act  is	one  of	 theenactments  thus  repealed.  Ordinarily the  effect  of	 therepeal	of  the	 old Act would have  been  governed  by	 theprovisions of s. 6 of the General Clauses Act (10 of  1897),but  in the case of the new Act the application of the	saidsection	 is subject to the provisions of ss. 645 to  657  ofthe  Act; that is the effect of s. 658 which  provides	thatthe mention of particulars in ss. 645 to 657 or in any otherprovisions  of	this  Act shall not  prejudice	the  generalapplication  of s. 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897,	withrespect to the effect of repeals.  In other words, though s.6  of  the  General Clauses Act will  generally	 apply,	 itsapplication  will be subject to the provisions contained  inas. 645 to 657; this position is not disputed.It is now necessary to consider s. 645.	 It reads thus:55428"Nothing   in  this  Act  shall	 affect	 any  order,   rule,regulation, appointment, conveyance mortgage, deed, documentor   agreement	made,  fee  directed,	resolution   passed,direction  given, proceeding taken, instrument executed	 orissued, or thing done, under or in pursuance of any previouscompanies  law;	 but  any  such	 order,	 rule,	 regulation,appointment,	conveyance,   mortgage,	  deed,	   document,agreement,    fee,   resolution,   direction,	 proceeding.instrument  or thing shall, if in force at the	commencementof this Act, continue to be in force, and so far as it couldhave  been made, directed, passed, given,  taken,  executed,issued or done under or in pursuance of this Act, shall haveeffect as if made, directed, passed, given, taken, executed,issued or done under or in pursuance of this Act."The  effect of this section is clear.  If an inspector	has.been appointed under the relevant section of the old Act, onrepeal	of the old Act and on coming into force of  the	 newAct,  his  appointment shall have effect as if it  was	madeunder  or in pursuance of the new Act.	Indeed it is  commonground	that  if  s. 645 had stood alone and  had  not	beenfollowed  by s. 646 there would have been no  difficulty  inholding that the inspector appointed under the old Act couldexercise  his  powers  and  authority  under  the   relevantprovisions  of the new Act, and the impugned  notices  wouldthen  be perfectly valid.  Incidentally we may refer to	 theprovisions of a. 652 in this connection.  Under this sectionany person appointed to any office under or by virtue of anyprevious company law shall be deemed to have been  appointedto that office under this Act.It  is, however, urged that the authority of  the  inspectorwhich is in dispute is governed by s. 646.This section provides:"Nothing  in this Act shall affect the operation of  section138  of	 the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of	 1913), asrespects  inspectors, or as respects the continuation of  aninspection   begun  by	inspectors,  appointed	before	 thecommencement  of  this Act; and the provisions of  this	 Actshall  apply  to or in relation to a  report  of  inspectorsappointed under the said section 138 as they apply to or  inrelation to a report			    429of  inspectors	appointed under section 235 or 237  of	thisAct."The argument is that the expression " nothing in this Act  "includes s. 645 and so s. 646 should be read as an exceptionor proviso to s. 645; and if that is so, all matters coveredby  s. 138 of the old Act must continue to be governed	bythe  said Act and not by any  of the provisions	 of  the newAct.	We   are  unable  to  accept  this   argument.	  Inappreciating  the effect of the provisions of s. 646  it  isnecessary to bear in mind that it occurs in that part of thenew Act which deals with repeals and savings.  Sections	 645to  648 are the saving sections, and ordinarily and  in	 theabsence	 of  any  indication to the  contrary  these  savingclauses	 should be read as independent of, and	in  additionto, and not as providing exceptions to, one another.  It  issignificant that whereas s. 646 provides for the continuanceof the operation of s. 138 it does not make a  correspondingprovision for the continuance of the operation of a. 140  ofthe old Act which deals with the powers of the inspector  tocall  for  books and to examine parties.   Besides,  it	 mayperhaps not be accurate to suggest that having regard to theprovisions of s. 645, s. 646 is wholly redundant.  It  wouldbe  possible  to take the view that cases falling  under  s.138(1)	of the old Act are intended to be covered by s.	 646as  they would not be covered by s. 645.  In regard  to	 thecase of a banking company covered by s. 138(1) s. 646	willcome into operation and that may be one of   the reasons forwhich s. 646 was enacted.  It may be	that the case of thebanking company may also be covered by s. 35 of the  BankingCompanies Act 10 of 1949, but since a. 138(1) applied to thesaid  case  until the old Act was repealed  the	 Legislaturemay-have,  as a matter of caution, thought it  necessary  toprovide	 for the continuance of the operation of s.  138  byenacting s. 646.  However that may be, we feel no difficultyin holding that s: 646 should not be construed as a  provisoto  s.645 but as an additional saving provision.  The  wordsused  in s. 645 are so clear, and the policy and  object  ofenacting   the	said  provision	 are  in  our	opinion	  soemphatically expressed, that it430would  be unreasonable to hold that s. 646 was	intended  toprovide	 for such a radical exception to s. 645.  Where	 theLegislature enacts a saving section as a matter of  abundantcaution the argument that the enactment of the said  sectionwas  not wholly necessary cannot be treated as	decisive  oreven  effective.  Therefore, in our opinion, the High  Courtwas  right  in coming to the conclusion that  the  inspectorappointed  under  s.  138(4) of the old Act  must  by  legalfiction,  which is authorised by s. 645, be deemed  to	havebeen  appointed under s. 235 of the new Act, and if that  isso,  respondent	 1  had authority and  power  to  issue	 theimpugned notices under s. 240 of the new Act.  The challengeto  the validity of the impugned notices on the ground	thatrespondent  1  had no authority to issue  the  said  noticesmust, therefore, fail.That  takes  us to the question as to whether  the  relevantprovisions  of s. 240, which empower respondent 1  to  issuethe relevant notices by which the appellant was called	uponto  give evidence and to produce documents,  offend  againstthe  fundamental  constitutional right	guaranteed  by	Art.20(3).	 It  has been strenuously urged before us  that	 themain  object  of the present investigation  is	to  discoverwhether the appellant has committed any offenses, and so  bycompelling him to give evidence and produce documents he  isdenied	 the   constitutional	protection   against	selfincrimination.Article	 20(3)	provides  that " no person  accused  of	 anyoffence	 shall be compelled to be a witness against  himself".  It may be assumed that the appellant is being  compelledto  be witness against himself in the  present	proceedings;but  even so the question which arises for our	decision  iswhether	 the  appellant can be said to be a  person  who  isaccused	 of  any  offence as required by  Art.	20(3).	 Mr.Sastri has contended that the words " person accused of	 anyoffence	  "   should  not  receive  a  narrow	or   literalconstruction; they should be liberally interpreted  because.the  clause,  in which they occur  enshrines  a	 fundamentalconstitutional	right  and the scope and reach of  the	saidright  should  not be unduly narrowed down.  In	 support  ofthis			    431general	 argument  Mr. Sastri has naturally  relied  on	 thehistorical background of the doctrine of protection  againstself-incrimination; and he has strongly pressed into servicethe  decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States  ofAmerica dealing with the Fifth Amendment to the Constitutionof  the	 United	 States.   The	said  Amendment	 inter	aliaprovides that " no person shall be compelled in any criminalcase to be a witness against himself ". It would be  noticedthat  in terms the Amendment refer to a criminal  case,	 andyet it has received a very broad and liberal  interpretationat  the hands of the Supreme Court of the United  States  ofAmerica.   It  has been held that  the	said  constitutionalprotection  is	not confined only to criminal cases  but  itextends	 even  to  civil  proceedings  (Vide:  McCarthy	  v.Arndstein(1)).	 As  observed by Mr. Justice  Blatchford  inCharles Counselman v. Frank Hitchcock (2) " it is impossiblethat the meaning of the constitutional provision can only bethat a person shall not be compelled to be a witness againsthimself in a criminal prosecution against himself.  It woulddoubtless  cover such cases but it is not limited  to  them.The  object  was  to  insure that a  person  should  not  becompelled, when acting as a witness in any investigation, togive testimony which might tend to show that he himself	 hadcommitted  a  crime.  The privilege is limited	to  criminalmatters, but it is as broad as the mischief against which itseeks to guard ".In support of his plea that a liberal interpretation  shouldbe   put  on  an  article  which  enshrines  a	 fundamentalconstitutional	right  Mr.  Sastri  has	 also  invited	 ourattention to the observation made by Mr. Justice Bradley  inEdward	A.  Boyd and George H. Boyd v.	United	States	(3).Says  Bradley,	J.,  "	illegitimate  and   unconstitutionalpractices  get	their first footing in that way,  namely  bysilent approaches and slight deviations from legal modes  ofprocedure.   This  can only be obviated by adhering  to	 therule  that  constitutional provisions for  the	security  ofperson and(1) (1924) 69 L. Ed. 158.     (2) (1892) 35 L. Ed. 1110.(3) (1886) 29 L. Ed. 746,752.432property should be liberally construed ". The learned  judgehas  also added that any compulsory discovery  by  extortingthe  party's  oath,  or compelling  the	 production  of	 hisprivate	 books	and papers, to convict him of  crime  or  toforfeit	 his  property, is contrary to the principles  of  afree  government,  and is abhorrent to the instincts  of  anAmerican.   It may suit the purposes of despotic power;	 butit cannot abide the pure atmosphere of political liberty andpersonal freedom".  In regard to this eloquent statement  ofthe law it may, however, be permissible to state that  underthe  English  Law the doctrine of protection  against  self-incrimination  has never been applied in the departments  ofCompany	 Law'  and Insolvency Law.  There is no	 doubt	thatunder  s.  15 of the English Bankruptcy Act  when  a  publicexamination  of a debtor is held he is compelled  to  answerall  questions as the court may put, or allow to be  put  tohim, and that the answers given have to be signed by him andcan  be used against him in evidence (Vide: In Re:  Atherton(1));  similar is the position under s. 270 of	the  EnglishCompanies  Act.	  However,  the	 general  argument  for	 theappellant is that in construing Art. 20(3) we may take	someassistance from the broad and liberal construction which hasbeen placed on the apparently narrow and limited words	usedin  the	 Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of	 the  UnitedStates of America..Thus presented the argument is no doubt attractive, and	 itsvalidity  and effectiveness would have had to be  fully	 andcarefully  examined  if the question raised in	the  presentappeal	had  been  a matter of first impression	 ;  but	 theconstruction of Art. 20 in general and Art. 20(2) and (3) inparticular has been the subject matter of some decisions  ofthis Court, and naturally it is in the light of the previousdecisions  that	 we  have to deal with	the  merits  of	 theappellants  case in the present appeal.	 In Maqbool  Hussainv.  The	 State	of Bombay (2) this  Court  had	occasion  toconsider   the	scope  and  effect  of	the   constitutionalguarantee  provided  by Art. 20(2).  A person  against	whomproceedings(1) (1912) 2 K.B. 251.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 730.433had  been taken by the Sea Customs Authorities under s.	 167of  the	 Sea Customs Act and an order  for  confiscation  ofgoods had been passed was subsequently prosecuted before thePresidency  Magistrate	for-an offence under s.	 23  of	 theForeign Exchange Regulations Act in respect of the same act.It  was	 urged	on, his behalf that  the  proceedings  takenagainst	 him  before  the  Sea	Customs	 Authorities  was  aprosecution and the order of confiscation passed in the saidproceedings wag a punishment, and. so it was argued that theconstitutional	guarantee  afforded by Art. 20(2)  made	 hissubsequent  prosecution under s. 23 of the Foreign  ExchangeRegulation Act invalid.	 This plea was rejected.  In dealingwith  the merits of the plea this Court had to consider	 themeaning	 of  the words " prosecuted and punished "  used  inArt. 20(2).  Article 20(2) provides that no person shall  beprosecuted and punished for the same offence more than once,and  the question raised was whether the proceedings  beforethe  Sea  Customs Authorities constituted  prosecution,	 andwhether the order of confiscation was punishment under	Art.20(2).	In construing Art. 20(2) this Court considered	Art.20 as a whole and examined the interrelation of the relevantterms used in the three clauses of the said article.  "	 Thevery wording of Art. 20 ", observed Bhagwati, J., " and	 thewords  used  therein" convicted ", " commission of  the	 actcharged	 as an offence ", " be subjected to a penalty  ",  "commission of the offence ", " prosecuted and punished ",  "accused of any offence " would indicate that the proceedingstherein	  contemplated	are  of	 the  nature   of   criminalproceedings  before a court of law or a	 judicial  tribunal.and the prosecution in this context would mean an initiationor  starting  of proceedings of a criminal nature  before  acourt  of law or a judicial tribunal in accordance with	 theprocedure  prescribed  in  the	statute	 which	creates	 theoffence and regulated the procedure ". Having thus construedArt.  20(2) in the light of the relevant words used  in	 thedifferent clauses of the said article, this Court  naturallyproceeded  to  enquire whether the Sea	Customs	 Authoritiesacted as a judicial tribunal in holding proceedings434against the person.  The scheme of the relevant pro. visionsof the Act was then examined, and it was held that the	saidauthorities are not a judicial tribunal with the result thatthe  "I	 adjudging  increased rate of duty  or	penalty	 andconfiscation"  under the provisions of the said act did	 notconstitute  a  judgment	 or order of  a	 court	or  judicialtribunal necessary for the purpose of supporting the plea ofdouble jeopardy.  In the result the conclusion of this Courtwas  that when the Customs Authorities confiscated the	goldin  question  the  proceedings taken did  not  amount  to  aprosecution  of the party nor did the order of	confiscationconstitute a punishment as contemplated by Art. 20(2).This decision has been affirmed by this Court in the case ofS. A. Venkataraman v. The Union of India (1).  In that	casean enquiry bad been made against the appellant	Venkataramanunder the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850 (Act  XXXVIIof   1850).   On  receiving  the  report  of   the   enquirycommissioner  opportunity was given to the  appellant  underArt.   311(2)	to  show  cause,   and,	  ultimately   afterconsultation  with the Union Public Service  Commission	 theappellant was dismissed by an order passed by the President.The  order  of dismissal was passed on September  17,  1953.Soon thereafter on February 23, 1954, the police submitted acharge-sheet against him charging him with having  committedoffenses under ss. 161/165 of the Indian Penal Code 'and  s.5(2)  of the Prevention of Corruption Act.  The validity  ofthe  subsequent prosecution was challenged by the  appellanton  the	 ground	 that  it  contravened	the   constitutionalguarantee  enshrined  in Art. 20(2).  The  appellant's	pleawas,  however, rejected on the ground that  the	 proceedingstaken	against	 him  before  the  commissioner	 under	 theInquiries Act did not amount to a prosecution.	The relevantprovisions  of the said act were examined, and it  was	heldthat  in an inquiry under the said Act there is neither	 anyquestion of investigating an offence in the sense of an	 actor  omission  punishable by any law for the  time  being  inforce nor is there(1) [1964] S.C.R. 1150.			    435any  question of imposing punishment prescribed by  the	 lawwhich makes that act or omission an offence.  Mukherjea, J.,as he then was, who delivered the judgment of the Court, hasreferred  to  the earlier decision in the  case	 of  MaqboolHussain (1), and has observed that " the effect of the	saiddecision  was  that the proceedings in connection  with	 theprosecution and punishment of a person must be in the natureof a criminal proceeding before a court of law or a judicialtribunal,  and	not  before a tribunal	which  entertains  adepartmental or an administrative enquiry even though set upby  a  statute	but which is not required by law  to  try  amatter	judicially and on legal evidence ". Thus  these	 twodecisions  can be said to have considered  incidentally	 thegeneral scope of Art. 20 though both of them were  concerneddirectly with the construction and application of Art. 20(2)alone.Article	 20(3)	was considered by the Full Court  in  M.  P.Sharma	v. Satish Chandra, District Magistrate,	 Delhi	(2).The  question about the scope and effect of Art.  20(3)	 wasraised in that case by a petition filed under Art. 32 of theConstitution.	It appears that the Registrar of  the  JointStock  Companies, Delhi State, lodged information  with	 theInspector-General,  Delhi  Special  Police Establishment,against	 the  petitioners alleging that they  had  committedseveral	 offenses  punishable under the Indian	Penal  Code.The   lodging  of  this	 information  was  preceded  by	  aninvestigation  into the affairs of the petitioners'  companywhich  had been ordered by the Central Government  under  a.138  of the old Act, and the report received at the  end  ofthe  said  investigation indicated that a  well-planned	 andorganised  attempt  had	 been made  by	the  petitioners  tomisappropriate	and  embezzle the funds of  the	 company  byadopting several ingenious methods.  On receipt of the	saidFirst  Information  Report the District	 Magistrate  orderedinvestigation  into  the offenses and  issued  warrants	 forsimultaneous searches at as many as thirty four places.	  Bytheir  petitions the petitioners contended that	 the  searchwarrants(1) [1953] S.C.R. 730.	      (2) [1954] S.C.R. 1077.56436were  illegal and they prayed that the same may be  quashedas  being in violation of Art, 20(3).  The plea thus  raisedby  the	 petitioners was ultimately rejected on	 the  groundthat  the  impugned.  searches did  not	 violate  the'	saidconstitutional guarantee.  Jagannadha das, J., who spoke forthe Court, observed that " since article 20(3) provides	 fora  constitutional guarantee against  testimonial  compulsionits words should be liberally construed, and that there	 wasno  reason to confine the content of the said  guarantee  toits  barely literal import ". He, therefore, held  that	 thephrase	"  to  be a witness " means  nothing  more  than  tofurnish evidence, and such evidence can be furnished throughthe lips or by production of a thing or of a document or  inother  modes.  He also pointed out that the phrase was "  tobe a witness " and not " to appear as a witness " and so theprotection afforded was not merely in respect of testimonialcompulsion  in the court room but may well extend to  compeltestimony  previously obtained from him.  The conclusion  ofthe Court on this part of the construction was thus  stated.The  constitutional  guarantee " is available  to  a  personagainst whom a formal accusation relating to the  commissionof  an offence has been leveled which in the  normal  coursemay result in prosecution ; whether it is available to otherpersons in other situations does not call for a decision  inthis  case  ". Since the First Information Report  bad	beenrecorded  against the petitioners in that case	it  followedthat the first test that a formal accusation relating to thecommission  of	an  offence  must  have	 been  leveled	 wassatisfied.   The  question  which was  then  considered	 waswhether	 there	was  any basis in the  Indian  Law  for	 theassumption  that a search or seizure of a thing or  documentis  in itself to be, treated as compelled production of	 thesame;  and it was held that there would be no  justificationfor  treating  the  said  search  or  seizure  as  compelledproduction; that is why the challenge to the validity of thesearch warrants issued against the petitioners was repelled.The  effect of this decision thus appears to be that one  ofthe.  essential conditions for invoking	 the  constitutionalguarantee enshrined in Art. 20(3)			    437is that a formal accusation relating to the commission of anoffence, which would normally lead to his prosecution,, musthave  been leveled against the party who is being  compelledto  give evidence against himself; and this  conclusion,  inour opinion is fully consistent with the two other decisionsof this Court to which we have already referred.There  are two other subsequent decisions of this' Court  towhich  reference may be made.  In Thomas Dana v.  State	 ofPunjab (1), according to the majority decision " prosecution"  in  Art.  20(2)  means a  proceeding	 either	 by  way  ofindictment  or information in a criminal court in  order  toput  an offender upon his trial.  It would be  noticed	thatthis conclusion is wholly consistent with the view taken  bythis  Court  in the case of Maqbool Hussain (2)	 and  S.  A.Venkataraman  (3).   In Mohammed Dastaqir v.  The  State  ofMadras	(4)  this  Court had to consider  Art.	20(3).	 Theappellant  in  that  case had gone to the  bungalow  of	 theDeputy	Superintendent of Police to offer him a bribe  whichwas  covered  in a closed envelope with a  request  that  hemight  drop  the action registered against him.	 The  policeofficer threw the envelope at the appellant who took it	 up.While  the appellant was still in the bungalow he was  askedby  the police officer to produce the envelope and  he	tookout  from his pocket some currency notes and placed them  onthe table without the envelope.	 The notes were then  seizedby  the police officer and a rubber stamp of his office	 wasplaced on them.	 On these facts it was urged that in relyingupon  the  evidence  of compelled production  of  notes	 theprosecution had , violated the provisions of Art. 20(3).  Insupport of this contention the general observations made  bythis  Court in the case of M. P., Sharma(5),  were  stronglypressed	 into  service.	 This Court, however,  rejected	 theappellant's arguments and held that the prosecution did	 notsuffer	from any infirmity.  On the facts it was found	thatthough the offence had in fact been already committed(1)  [1959] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 274.(2)  [1953] S.C.R. 730.(3)  [1954] S.C.R. 1150.(4)  A.I.R. 1960 S.C. 756.(5) [1954] S.C.R. 1077.438by  the appellant, he had in fact not been accused of it  atthe  stage when the currency notes were produced by him;  itwas  also  held	 that  it could not  be	 said  that  he	 wascompelled  to  produce the said currency notes,	 because  hemight easily have refused to produce them, ,and so there wasno occasion for him to invoke the constitutional  protectionagainst self-incrimination.What then is the result of these decisions ? They show	thatin  determining the complexion and reach of  its  respectivesub-clauses the general scheme of Art. 20 as a whole must beconsidered,  and  the  effect of  the  inter-action  of	 therelevant  words used 'in them must be properly	appreciated.Thus considered the constitutional right guaranteed by	Art.20(2)  against double jeopardy can be  successfully  invokedonly where the- prior proceedings on which reliance is plac-ed  must  be of a criminal nature  instituted  or  continuedbefore	a court of law or a judicial tribunal in  accordancewith  the procedure prescribed in the statute which  createsthe  offence  and  regulates the  procedure.   It  would  benoticed that the character of the said proceedings as  wellas  the character of the forum before which the	 proceedingsare  initiated or conducted are treated as decisive  in	 thematter.	  Similarly, for invoking the  constitutional  rightagainst testimonial compulsion guaranteed under Art. 20	 (3)it  must  appear  that a formal	 accusation  has  been	madeagainst the party pleading the guarantee and that it relatesto  the commission of an offence which in the normal  coursemay  result  in prosecution.  Here again the nature  of	 theaccusation  and	 its  probable	sequel	or  consequence	 areregarded as important.Thus we go back to the question which we have already posed:was  the appellant accused of any  offence at the time	whenthe impugned notices were served on him ? In answering	thisquestion  in  the light of the tests to which we  have	justreferred  it  will be necessary to determine the  scope	 andnature	of the enquiry which the inspector undertakes  unders.  240	 ; for, unless it is shown that an accusation  of  acrime  can be made in such an enquiry, the appellant's	pleaunder Art. 20(3) cannot succeed.  Section 240			    439shows that the enquiry which the inspector undertakes is  insubstance  an  enquiry	into  the  affairs  of	the  companyconcerned.   Certain documents are required to be  furnishedby  a company to the Registrar under the provisions  of	 thenew Act.  If, on examining the said documents, the Registrarthinks	it necessary to call for information or	 explanationhe  is	empowered  to take the	necessary  action  under  s.234(1).	 Similarly, under s. 234(7) if it is represented  tothe  Registrar	on  materials  placed  before  him  by	 anycontributory or creditor or any other person interested thatthe  business  of the company is carried on  in	 the  mannerspecified in the-said sub-section the Registrar proceeds  tomake  the  enquiry.   Thus the scope  of  the  enquiry	con-templated  by  s. 234 is clear; wherever the  Registrar	 hasreason	to believe that the affairs of the company  are	 notproperly carried on he is empowered to make an enquiry	intothe  said  affairs.  Similarly under s. 235  inspectors	 areappointed  to  investigate' the affairs of any	company	 andreport	thereon.   The	investigation  carried	on  by	 theinspectors  is	no  more than the  work	 of  a	fact-findingcommission.    It   is	true  that  as	a  result   of	 theinvestigation  made by the inspectors it may  be  discoveredthat   the  affairs  of	 the  company  disclose	  not	onlyirregularities	and  malpractice  but  also  commission	  ofoffenses,  and in such a case the report would	specify	 therelevant.  particulars	prescribed by the circular  in	thatbehalf	 If,  after  receiving	the  report,   the   CentralGovernment  is	satisfied  hat any person is  guilty  of  anoffence	 for  which he is criminally liable, it	 may,  aftertaking legal advice, institute criminal proceedings  againstthe  offending person under s. 242(1); but the fact  that  aprosecution  may ultimately be launched against the  allegedoffender  will not retrospectively change the complexion  orcharacter  of the proceedings held by the inspector when  hemakes the investigation.  Have irregularities been committedin managing the affairs of the company ; if yes, what is thenature	of  the	 irregularities ? Do  they  amount  to	the-commission of an offence punishable under the criminal law ?If they do who is liable for the said offence?	These and440such  other  questions fall within the purview of  the	ins-pector's investigation.	 The scheme of the relevant sectionsis  that  the investigation begins broadly with	 a  view  toexamine	 the  management of the affairs of the	 company  tofind  out whether any irregularities have     been committedor  not.   In  such a case there is  no	 accusation,  eitherformal	or  otherwise, against	any   specified	 individual;there  may  be	a general allegation that  the	affairs	 areirregularly, improperly or illegally managed; but who  wouldbe  responsible	 for the affairs which are  reported  to  beirregularly managed is a matter which would be determined atthe end of the enquiry.	 At the commencement of the  enquiryand  indeed throughout its proceedings there is	 no  accusedperson, no accuser and no accusation against anyone that  hehas committed an offence.  In our opinion a general  enquiryand  investigation  into  the affairs of  the  company	thuscontemplated  cannot be regarded as an	investigation  whichstarts with an accusation contemplated in Art. 20(3) of	 theConstitution.	In  this  connection  it  is  necessary	  toremember  that	the relevant sections of the Act  appear  inPart   VI   which  generally  deals  with   management	 andadministration of the companies.It  is	well-known,  that  the provisions  of  the  Act	 aremodeled	 on  the  corresponding provisions  of	the  EnglishCompanies  Act.	 It would, therefore, be useful to refer  tothe  observations made by the House of Lords  in  describingthe  character of the enquiry held under  the  correspondingprovisions  of the English Act in the case of Hearts of	 OakAssurance  Co. v. Attorney General (1).	 In that  case	LordThankerton  said  " it appears to me to be  clear  that	 theobject	of the examination is merely to recover	 informationas  to	the company's affairs and that it is in no  sense  ajudicial proceeding for the purpose of trial of an  offence;it  is enough to point out that there are no parties  beforethe inspector, that he alone conducts the enquiry, and	thatthe  power to examine on oath is confined to  the  officers,members,  agents  and servants of the company ".  We  ought,however, to add that the last(1)  1932 A.C. 392.			    441observation  is no longer true about the inspector's  powersunder  s.  240	of  the new Act.   In  the  same  case	LordMacmillan  observed  that  "  the  object  of  the   enquirymanifestly  is that the Commissioner may either	 by  himselfdirectly  or  through the medium of a  delegate	 obtain	 theinformation necessary to enable him, to decide what  action,if  any, he should take.  The cardinal words of the  sectionare those which empower the Commissioner or his inspector toexamine	 into  and report on the affairs of the	 society  ".Thus  it is clear that the examination of, or  investigationinto,  the  affairs of the company cannot be regarded  as  aproceeding  started against any individual after framing  anaccusation against him.	 Besides it is quite likely that  insome  cases  investigation may disclose that  there  are  noirregularities,	 or if there are they do not amount  to	 thecommission  of	any  offence;  in  such	 cases	there  wouldobviously  be  no  occasion for the  Central  Government  toinstitute criminal proceedings under s. 242(1).	  Therefore,in  our	 opinion, the High Court was right in  holding	thatwhen  the inspector issued the impugned notices against	 theappellant the appellant cannot be said to have been  accusedof any offence; and so the first essential condition for theapplication  of Art. 20(3) is absent.  We ought to add	thatin the present case the same conclusion would follow even ifthe  clause  "accused of any offence " is  interpreted	moreliberally  than	 was done in the case of M. P.	Sharma	(1),because	 even if the expression 'accused of any offence"  isinterpreted in a very broad and liberal way it is clear thatat the relevant stage the appellant has not been, and in lawcannot be, accused of any offence.  Thus the tests about thecharacter  of  the  proceedings	 and  the  forum  where	 theproceedings  are initiated or intended to be taken are	alsonot  satisfied;	 but, as we have already indicated,  such  abroad and liberal interpretation of the relevant  expressiondoes  not appear to be consistent with the tenor and  effectof the previous decisions of this Court.It is true that in his report the Registrar has made(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1077.442certain	 allegations  on which Mr. Sastri  has	relied.	  Hecontends  that	the statements in the report  do  amount  toallegations  of	 commission of offenses	 by  the  appellant.What  the  Registrar  has  stated  in  his  report  in	thisparticular  case cannot be relevant or material in  decidingthe vires of the impugned section.  The vires of the sectioncan be determined only by examining 'the relevant scheme  ofthe  Act, and we have already Been that such an	 examinationdoes not assist the appellants contention that Art. 20(3) iscontravened.  Besides, what the Registrar has stated in	 hisreport	can  hardly  amount to	an  accusation	against	 theappellant;  it is a report submitted by him to	the  CentralGovernment,  and it is only intended to enable	the  CentralGovernment to decide whether it should appoint an inspector.It  is	not  as if the investigation  before  the  inspectorbegins	on the basis that the Registrar is  the	 complainantwho  has made an accusation against the appellant,  or	thatthe function of the investigation is to find out whether thesaid  accusation is proved or not.  As we have already	seenan  enquiry  under  s. 240 may require	a  large  number  ofpersons to give evidence or produce documents but it  cannotbe said that any accusation is made against any of the	saidpersons.   In  fact  three persons  have  been	served	withsimilar notices in the present enquiry which shows that	 theinspector  desires to obtain relevant evidence from them  asfrom  the appellant.  How can it be said that an  accusationhas  been  made	 against the said three	 persons,  and	thatincidentally helps to bring out the real character and scopeof  the enquiry.  Therefore we do not think that the  state-ments  made in the Registrar's report, on which	 Mr.  Sastrirelies can really assist us in deciding the question of	 thevires of s. 240.  It is also significant that the  appellanthas  not challenged the validity of the impugned notices  onany ground relatable to, or based on, the said report.	 Thechallenge  is founded on. the broad and general ground	thatS. 240 offends against Art. 20(3).We  may	 incidentally  add that it was	in  support  of	 hisargument based on the Registrar's report that443Mr.  Sastri sought to rely on the decision of  the  CalcuttaHigh  Court  in Collector of Customs v. Calcutta  Motor	 andCycle Co. (1).	In that case certain notices had been issuedunder  s. 171A of the Sea Customs Act to certain persons  toappear	before the customs officials and to produce  certaindocuments.  The High Court took the view that " it  appearedfrom  the  accusations made in the search  warrants  at	 theinstance"  of the customs authorities and those made in	 oneof  the notices by the customs authorities themselves,	thatthe accusations of criminal offenses could not be excluded ";  and	so it was held that the requirements of	 Art.  20(3)were satisfied and the protection under the said article wasavailable  to  the persons concerned.  In our  opinion	thisdecision does not assist the appellant.	 It proceeded on thefinding that accusations of criminal offenses could be	heldin   substance	to  have  been	made  against  the   personsconcerned, and it dealt with the other points of law on thatassumption.   That  being  so, we think	 it  unnecessary  todiscuss	 or  consider the said	decision.   Our	 conclusion,therefore, is that s. 240 does not offend against Art. 20(3)of the Constitution.That  still  leaves the challenge to the vires of  the	saidsection	 under Art. 14 of the Constitution, though we  oughtto  add	 that Mr. Sastri did not seriously  press  his	caseunder  Art.  14, and we think rightly.	The  argument  underArt.  14 proceeds on familiar lines.  It is urged  that	 theordinary  protection afforded to witnesses under s.  132  ofthe  Indian Evidence Act as well as the protection  affordedto  accused persons under s. 161(1) and (2) of the  CriminalProcedure  Code,  have been denied to the appellant  in	 theinvestigation which respondent 1 is carrying on in regard tothe  affairs  of  his company, and  that  violates  equalitybefore	the law.  The scope and effect of Art. 14 have	beenconsidered by this Court frequently.: It has been repeatedlyheld  that what Art. 14,prohibits is class  legislation;  itdoes not, however,, forbid reasonable classification for thepurpose	 of  legislation.  If the  classification  on  whichlegislation is based is founded57444on  an intelligible differentia which distinguishes  personsor things that are grouped together from others left out  ofthe group, and if the differentia has a rational relation tothe  object sought to be achieved, then	 the  classificationdoes  not offend Art. 14 (Vide: Shri Ram Krishna  Dalmia  v.Justice	 Tendolkar (1)).  Now in the light of this test	 howcan  it be said that the classification made by ss. 239	 and240  offends  Art. 14 of the Constitution ? A company  is  acreature of the statute.  There can be no doubt that one  ofthe  objects  of the Companies Act is to throw open  to	 allcitizens the privilege of carrying on business with  limitedliability.  Inevitably the business of the company has to becarried	 on through human agency, and that  sometimes  givesrise to irregularities and malpractice in the management  ofthe  affairs  of the company.  If persons in charge  of	 themanagement  of	companies  abuse  their	 position  and	makepersonal profit at the cost of the creditors, contributoriesand others interested in the company, that raises a  problemwhich  is very much different from the problem	of  ordinarymisappropriation  or breach of trust.  The interest  of	 thecompany	 is the interest of several persons  who  constitutethe  company, and thus persons in management of the  affairsof  such companies can be classed by themselves as  distinctfrom  other  individual	 citizens.  A citizen  can  and	 mayprotect his own interest, but where the financial  interestof  a large number of citizens is left in charge of  personswho  manage  the  affairs  of  the  companies  it  would  belegitimate  to treat such companies and their managers as  aclass by themselves and to provide for necessary  safeguardsand checks against a possible abuse of power vesting in	 themanagers.   If	the relevant provisions of the	Act  dealingwith  enquiries	 and investigations of the  affairs  of	 thecompanies are considered from this point of view there wouldbe  no	difficulty in holding that Art. 14 is  not  violatedeither by s. 239 or s. 240 of the new Act.The result is the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.			    Appeal dismissed.(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 297.445