PETITIONER:THE AHMEDABAD TEXTILE INDUSTRY'S RESEARCH ASSOCIATION	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:17/11/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1961 AIR  484		  1961 SCR  (2) 480 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1962 SC1340	 (4) D	    1963 SC1873	 (11) R	    1964 SC 903	 (12) E	    1968 SC 554	 (13) R	    1972 SC 763	 (12,23) F	    1976 SC 145	 (25,32) E&R	    1978 SC 548	 (134,159)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Research  Institute,  if  an   industry-"Industry",  Meaning of-Test-Industrial Disputes  Act,	1947(14 of 1947), S. 2(j).HEADNOTE:The appellant association was founded in 1947 and the objectof  the founders was to establish a textile research  insti-tute  for  the	purpose of carrying on	research  and  otherscientific  work  in connection with the  textile  trade  orindustry  and other trade and industry allied  therewith  ornecessary thereto.  The cost of maintaining the	 associationwas  met  partly  by  members  and  partly  by	grants	fromGovernment and other sources.The  activity of the association was  systematically  under-taken; its object was to render material services to a	partof   the  community,  namely,  member-mills,  the   materialservices being the discovery of process of manufacture etc.,with  a view to secure greater	efficiency,  rationalisationand  reduction	of costs of the member-mills; it  was  beingcarried	 on  with the help of employees some  of  whom	weretechnical personnel on payment of remuneration, they had  norights in the results of the research carried on by them  asemployees of the Association which were the property of	 theAssociation  and it was organised or arranged in the  mannerin which a trade or business is generally organised.Disputes  arose between the appellant and its workmen  whichrelated to wage-scale and dearness allowance and payment  ofhouse-rent  allowance which was referred  for  adjudication.The  appellant questioned the reference on the	ground	thatthe appellant was not an industry and that the Tribunal	 waswrong in holding that the appellant was included within	 thedefinition  of	the  word  "Industry"  of  s.  2(j)  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act,  and	 contended  that  it  was  aresearch  centre in the nature of educational  activity	 andtherefore  had no analogy with activities in the  nature  oftrade or business.The  question therefore was whether appellant was an  under-taking	within	the meaning of s. 2(j)	of  'the  IndustrialDisputes  Act  and its activities satisfied the	 tests	laiddown in State of Bombay v. Hospital Mazdoor Sabha.Held, that the manner in which the activity in question	 wasorganised  or  arranged, the condition of  the	co-operationbetween employer and employee necessary for its success	 andits object to481render	material service to the community could be  regardedas   some  of  the  features  which  would  be	 distinctiveactivities to which S. 2 (j) of the Act could be applied.In the instant case, the manner in which the association wasorganised clearly shows that the undertaking as a whole	 wasin  the	 nature	 of business and trade	organised  with	 theobject of discovery of ways and means by which	member-millsmay   obtain  larger  profits  in  connection	with   theirindustries.   The  activity of the association	was  clearlywithin	the definition of the word "Industry" in S. 2(j)  ofthe Industrial Disputes Act and could not be assimilated  toa purely educational institution and satisfies the test laiddown in the State of Bombay v. Hospital Mazdoor Sabha.	Thusthe  Association is an undertaking within the meaning of  S.2(j) of the Act.When  this  dispute arose between the  Association  and	 itsemployees it was an industrial dispute and could be properlyreferred for adjudication under the Act.The State of Bombay v. The Hospital Mazdoor Sabha, [1960]  2S.C.R. 866 followed.  The Federated States School  Teachers'Association  v. The State of Victoria, (1929) 41 C.L.R.	 569not applicable.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION.  Civil Appeal No. 22 of 1959.Appeal	by  Special  Leave from the  Award  dated  the	31stOctober,  1957,	 of  the  Industrial  Tribunal,	 Bombay	  inReference (I. T.) No. 141 of 1957.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, J.  B.  Mehtaand I. N. Shroff for the Appellant.Vidya  Dhar  Mahajan,  K.  L. Hathi and	 R.  H.	 Dhebar	 forRespondent No. 1.N.C.   Shah,  President,  Engineering  Mazdoor	 Sabha	 forRespondent No. 3.1960.  November 17.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyWANCHOO,  J.-This is an appeal by special leave against	 theaward  of  the	Industrial Tribunal, Bombay.   There  was  adispute	 between  the appellant and its workmen,  which	 wasreferred  by the Government of Bombay for adjudication.	  Itrelated	 to the wagescale and dearness allowance of  certainemployees of the appellant and also to the payment of house-rent61482allowance.   The main contention of the appellant     beforethe Tribunal was that the reference was not  competent underthe  Industrial Disputes Act, No. XIV of  1947	(hereinaftercalled the Act), as the appellant was not an industry withinthe  meaning  of  the  Act.   The  Tribunal  rejected	thiscontention and held that  the reference was valid.  It	thenwent  into  the	 merits of the dispute, with  which  we	 arehowever not concerned in the present appeal.  The only pointurged  before  us  on behalf of the appellant  is  that	 theTribunal  was  wrong in holding that the appellant  was	 in-cluded	within	the definition of the  word  "industry"	 andtherefore the reference was competent."Industry"  is defined in s. 2(j) of the Act as meaning	 anybusiness,  trade,  undertaking, manufacture  or	 calling  ofemployers  and	includes any calling,  service,	 employment,handicraft,   or  industrial  occupation  or  avocation	  ofworkmen.   The main question canvassed before  the  Tribunalwas  whether  the appellant was an  undertaking	 within	 themeaning	 of  s.	 2(j).	 The  question	as  to	what  is  anundertaking  for  the  purpose of s. 2(j) has  come  up	 forconsideration  before this Court in a number of	 cases,	 thelast of which is The State of Bombay v. The Hospital MazdoorSabha(1),  where a question arose whether a hospital run  bygovernment was an undertaking within the meaning of s. 2(j).It  was	 pointed out in that case that though s.  2(j)	usedwords of very wide denotation, a line would have to be drawnin  a fair and just manner so as to exclude  some  callings,services  or  undertakings.  If all the words  used  thereinwere  given  their  widest meaning,  all  services  and	 allcallings  would	 come within the purview of  the  definitionincluding  those services rendered by a servant purely in  apersonal  or domestic matter and even in a casual  way.	  Ithad  therefore	to be considered where the  line  should  bedrawn  and what limitations should be reasonably implied  ininterpreting  the wide words used in s. 2(j).  Further,	 thecontention  that  the  word "undertaking" used	in  s.	2(j)should	be  treated as analogous to trade  or  business	 andtherefore  the	undertaking  in	 question  must	 involve  aneconomic activity in which capital is invested(1)  [1960] 2 S.C.R. 866.483and which is carried on for profit or for the production  orsale  of goods by the employment of labour was not  acceptedin  full and it was pointed out that an	 activity  could andmust be regarded as an industry even though in its  carryingon profit motive might be absent.  Further it was held	thatabsence	 of investment of any capital would not	 necessarilymean that an undertaking was not included within s. 2(j).That   case  then  proceeded  to  consider  what  kinds	  ofactivities  could  be  excluded from  the  meaning  of	"un-dertaking" for purposes of s. 2(j).  It was pointed out thatactivities  of government which could be properly  describedas  sovereign activities were outside the scope of s.  2(j),as  they  were functions which a  constitutional  governmentcould and must undertake for governance and which no privatecitizen	 could undertake.  These sovereign  activities	weredefined	 in  the words of Lord Watson as  "the	primary	 andinalienable  functions of a constitutional  government"	 butwould  not  necessarily include an  activity  undertaken  bygovernment in pursuit of its welfare policies.	It was	alsopointed	 that  though  in the absence of  profit  motive  anactivity  might be regarded as an undertaking, the  presenceof   such  motive  would  be  a	 relevant  circumstance	  inconsidering  whether the undertaking was an industry  withinthe meaning of s. 2(j).The  case  then	 went  on to  consider	the  attributes	 thepresence  of  which would make an  activity  an	 undertakingunder  s. 2(j) on the ground that it was analogous to  tradeor  business.  It was pointed out that it was  difficult  tostate  these attributes definitely or exhaustively but as  aworking	  principle   it   was	 said	that   an   activitysystematically	or habitually undertaken for the  productionor  distribution of goods or for the rendering	of  materialservices  to  the  community  at large or  a  part  of	suchcommunity with the help of employees would be an undertakingwithin the meaning of the Act provided it was carried on  inan organised manner like trade or business." Thus the mannerin which the activity in question is organised or  arranged,the  condition	of  the co-operation  between  employer	 andemployee necessary for its success484and  its object to render material service to the  communitycould  be  regarded as some of the features Which  would  bedistinctive of activities to which s. 2(j) applied.  We havetherefore to see whether the appellant's activity  satisfiesthe tests laid down in this case and if it does, it would bean undertaking within the meaning of s. 2(j).It will be necessary for this purpose to examine the objectswith  which  the appellant-association was founded  and	 theactivities which it is carrying on.  The main contention  ofthe   learned  Attorney-General	 is  that   the	  appellant-association  is	 a research centre and is in the  nature  ofeducational  activity and therefore has no analogy  with  anactivity  in the nature of trade or business.  He relies  inthis connection on a decision of the Australian High  Court,The  Federated State School Teachers' Assn. v. The State  ofVictoria (1), where it was held that educational  activitiesof  the	 State	carried on under  appropriate  statutes	 andstatutory regulations relating to education did not  consti-tute industry within the meaning of s. 4 of the CommonwealthConciliation and Arbitration Act.The appellant-association was founded in 1947 and the objectof  the	 founders  was	to  establish  a  textile   researchinstitute for the purpose of carrying on research and  otherscientific  work  in connection with the  textile  trade  orindustry and other trades and industries allied therewith ornecessary thereto.  The research to be conducted was for thepurpose of investigation into manufacture and improvement ofmaterials  used in the textile industry, utilisation of	 theproducts  of  the  industry, improvement  of  machinery	 andappliances  used  by the industry,  improvement	 of  variousprocesses  of  manufacture  with a view	 to  secure  greaterefficiency,   rationalisation  and  reduction	of   costs.,research  into	the  conditions of  work,  time	 and  motionstudies, fatigue and rest pauses, standardisation of methodsof   work,  conditioning  of  factories	 and  diseases	 andaccidents  arising out of employment in a textile mill.	  Inorder to carry out these objects, the  appellant-associationwas to establish, equip and(1)  (1929) 41 C.L.R. 569.485maintain  laboratories, work-shops or factories and  conductand carry on experiments; to prepare, edit, print,  publish,issue, acquire and circulate books, papers, periodicals etc.and  to establish, form and maintain museums, libraries	 andcollections  of literature, statistics, scientific data	 andother	information   relating	to  the	 industry   and	  todisseminate the same by means of reading papers, delivery oflectures,  giving of advice and the appointment of  advisoryofficers;  to  employ  or retain  skilled,  professional  ortechnical advisers or workers in connection with the objectsof  the association on payment of such fees or	remunerationas  might  be thought expedient; to found, aid	or  maintainschools	  or  colleges	for  textile  research	 and   endowscholarships  and bursaries, to support students engaged  inresearch  work;	 and  to encourage  the	 discovery  of,	 andinvestigate  and  make	known  the  nature  and	 merits	  ofinventions,  improvements, processes, materials and  designswhich  may  be	capable	 of being used	by  members  of	 theassociation  for any of the purposes of the  said  industry.It  will  thus	be  seen  that	though	the  object  of	 theassociation  was research, that research was  directed	withthe  idea of helping the member mills to improve methods  ofproduction   in	  order	 to   secure   greater	 efficiency,rationalisation and reduction of costs.	 The basis thereforeof the research carried on by the appellant was to help	 thetextile industry and particularly the member mills in makinglarger	profits	 and this was to be done  primarily  by	 theemployment   of	  technical   personnel	  on   payment	  ofremuneration.	Reference in this connection may be made  tor.  13	of  the	 Rules and  Regulations	 of  the  appellant-association,  which  lays  down	 that  any  member  of	 theassociation   who   considers	that   its   interests	 areprejudicially  affected	 by  any  research  proposed  to  beundertaken  by	the  association may  object  to  governmentagainst	 the undertaking of the proposed research.  Rule  13read with r. 45 also envisages that if such an objection  istaken the proposed research will not be carried on till	 theobjection  is  decided	by  the	 government,  though  it  isprovided  that the government may direct the research to  becarried486on during the time the objection is pending consideration ofgovernment.  The administration of the appellant-associationis vested in a council in which the majority consists of therepresentatives	 of the textile industry.  The	research  iscarried on, as already indicated, under the supervision of aDirector  of  Research,	 by  technical	personnel,  who	 aregenerally  paid employees of the appellant-association;	 butall  such  technical personnel employed by  the	 associationhave  to  give an undertaking to observe strict	 secrecy  inrespect of all researches undertaken.  They are also to givean undertaking not to use or take advantage in their privatecapacity  of  special  knowledge so  obtained  or  put	intooperation any invention or process of which they might	haveobtained  knowledge as aforesaid.  It is also provided	thatany  invention or process can be put into operation  to	 theextent	to which, and as and when it may be permitted to  beso  done  in common with all members of the  association  instrict accordance with the Rules and Regulations made by thecouncil.  The effect of this provision in r. 42 of the Rulesand  Regulations  is  that the result  of  research  is	 theproperty  not of the person making the research but  of	 theassociation,  to be used by its members in  accordance	withthe  Rules and Regulations made by the Council.	 Then r.  44provides  that every employee of the association engaged  onresearch   shall  contract  in	writing	 that  he  will	  inconsideration  of  his employment hold exclusively  for	 thebenefit	 of and assigned to the association at the  cost  ofthe association all rights and ownership in any discoveries,inventions,  designs or other results arising in the  courseof  such  employment upon such research.   These  provisionsmake  it  clear that though the appellant  association.	 hasbeen  established for purposes of research, the main  objectof  the	 research  is  the benefit of  the  members  of	 theassociation.  The cost of maintaining the association is metpartly	by members and partly by grants from government	 andother  sources.	  It will thus be clear that in	 effect	 theassociation  has been established to carry on research	withrespect	 to textile industry jointly for the benefit of	 itsmembers;487but  for this, each member-mill might have had to  establishits  own research department, which would be a part  of	 itsactivity.   Can	 it be said under these	 circumstances	thatthis  is  an  undertaking which	 is  purely  of	 educationalcharacter  and	therefore  covered by  the  Australian	casementioned above?  We are of opinion, considering the objectsand the Rules and Regulations of the  appellant-association,that it answers the tests laid down in the Hospital case (1)and must be held to be an undertaking within the meaning  ofs.  2(j).  It is an activity systematically undertaken;	 itsobject	is  to	render material services to a  part  of	 thecommunity (namely, member-mills)-the material services beingthe  discovery of processes of manufacture etc. with a	viewto secure greater efficiency, rationalisation and  reductionof  costs of the member-mills; it is being carried  on	withthe help of employees (namely, technical personnel) who haveno rights in the results of the research carried on by	themas employees of the association; it is organised or arrangedin  a  manner  in which a trade	 or  business  is  generallyorganised;  it	postulates  co-operation  between  employers(namely,  the  association) and the employees  (namely,	 thetechnical  personnel and others) which is necessary for	 itssuccess,  for the employers provide monies for	carrying  onthe activities of the association and its object clearly  isto  render  material service to a part of the  community  bydiscovery  of processes of manufacture etc. with a  view  tosecure greater efficiency, rationalisation and reduction  ofcosts.	The activities of this association therefore have inour opinion little in common with the activities of what maybe called a purely educational institution.  It is true thatthe employees who have raised the present industrial disputedo not actually contribute to the research, which is carriedon under the appellant-association; but the manner in  whichthe association is organised and the fact that the technicalpersonnel  who carry on the research are also employees	 whohave  no  rights in the results of their  research,  clearlyshow that the undertaking as a whole is in the nature of(1)  [1960] 2 S.C.R. 866.488business and trade organised with the object of	 discoveringways  and means by which the member-mills may obtain  largerprofits	 in  connection	 with their  industries.   In  thesecircumstances  we  have	 no  hesitation	 in  coming  to	 theconclusion that the appellant-association is carrying on  anactivity  which clearly comes within the definition  of	 theword  "industry" in s. 2(j) and which cannot be	 assimilatedto  a purely educational institution.  In this view  of	 thematter, when a dispute arose between the appellant and	someof its employees, it was an industrial dispute and could  beproperly referred for adjudication under the Act.The  appeal  fails and is hereby dismissed with one  set  ofcosts.				      Appeal dismissed.