PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:M/S.  S. S. MIRANDA LIMITEDDATE OF JUDGMENT:25/03/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1960 AIR  898		  1960 SCR  (3) 397ACT:Excise	  Duty--Imposition   at	  successive	stages	  oftransportation	of  excisable  article--Validity  of--BombayAbkari Act, 1878 (Bom.	V of 1878), ss. 10, 19 & 19A.HEADNOTE:The  respondent held a trade and import licence for  foreignliquor as well as a vendor's licence under the Bombay Abkari51398Act.   It  kept liquor in a bonded warehouse.  On  April  2,1948,  the  appellant  asked the respondent  to	 remove	 theliquor from the bonded warehouse after paying the  necessaryexcise	duty.	The  respondent	 paid  the  duty,  got	 thetransport permits and took over the liquor, some of which itsold.	On  December  16,  1948,  the  appellant  issued   anotification doubling the duty on foreign liquor and  calledupon the respondent to pay the additional duty on the liquorwhich  was  still  lying  in  its  godown.   The  respondentcontended  that	 the imposition of additional  duty  on	 thestock on which duty had already been paid at the time of itsissue from the bonded warehouse was illegal.  The appellantscase  was  that	 the respondent was bound to  pay  the	dutyprevailing  on	the  transport	of liquor  at  the  time  oftransporting  the  same from its premises to  another  placewithin the State of Bombay:Held, that the imposition of the additional excise duty	 wasillegal.   Once the duty had been paid the liquor  could  betransported  free from any further imposition, except  whereit was transported to a region where the duty was  differentfrom the region where the duty was paid.  There was no powerin  the	 State Government to impose duty at  every  movementduring	the course of the trade.  Though there was power  inthe legislature to levy duty at every movement of liquor, ithad  not  exercised that power; nor had	 it  delegated	suchpower to the State Government.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 21 of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated August 12,1954, ofthe Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 45 of 1954, arising	 outof  the judgment and decree dated February 17, 1954, of	 thesaid High Court in Suit No. 246 of 1956.H.   J.	 Umrigar,  N. N. Keswani and R. H. Dhebar,  for	 theappellant.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General of India, S.  M.  Dubashand G. Gopalakrishnan, for the respondents.1960.  March 25.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.--This is an appeal on a certificate granted  bythe  Bombay High Court.	 The brief facts necessary  for	 itsdisposal are these.  Messrs.  S. S. Miranda Ltd (hereinaftercalled the respondent) is a company and was holding a  tradeand  import licence of foreign liquor as well as a  vendor'slicence	 under	the  Bombay Abkari Act	(Bom.	V  of  1878)(hereinafter399called	the  Act), upto the end of March 1949.	It  used  tokeep  the liquor in a bonded warehouse.	 On April  2,  1948,the   respondent  was  informed	 by  the  State	 of   Bombay(hereinafter  called the appellant) to remove S, the  liquorfrom the bonded warehouse after paying the necessary  exciseduty.  In pursuance of this letter, the respondent paid	 theduty  and got transport permits from the appellant.  It	 maybe  mentioned that the bonded warehouse was in the  premisesof  the	 respondent itself and all that happened  after	 thepayment	 of the duty was that the liquor no longer  remainedin  bond  but came into possession of the  respondent.	 Thetransport  permits  were  issued  on  April  5,	 1948,	 andthereafter  the respondent took over the liquor and some  ofit  was	 sold.	 On December 16, 1948,	a  notification	 wasissued	by  the appellant (hereinafter referred	 to  as	 theNotification)  whereby	the  duty  on  foreign	liquor	 wasdoubled.    Thereupon  the  respondent	was  asked  by	 theappellant  to pay the additional duty upon the liquor  whichwas  still  lying in its godown and was also  told  that  itwould  not be permitted to deal with that liquor  until	 theadditional  duty was paid.  The respondent objected to	thisdemand	but  paid the duty, which came to over two  lacs  ofrupees, under protest.	Thereafter a notice was given by therespondent under s. 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure to theappellant and was followed by a suit on the original side ofthe Bombay High Court.The   main  contention	of  the	 respondent  was  that	 theNotification  in so far as it imposed and levied  additionalduty  on the stock of foreign liquor on which the  duty	 hadalready been paid at the time of its issue' from the  bondedwarehouse  was illegal, invalid and ultra vires the Act	 andin  particular	beyond the scope of s. 19 of the  Act.	 Therespondent therefore claimed refund of the duty which it hadpaid  under  protest and also interest at 6  per  cent.	 perannum from the date of payment till the date of recovery.The  suit  was resisted by the appellant, and its  case	 wasthat the Notification was valid and that the respondent	 wasbound  to  pay the duty prevailing on400the  transport	of  the excisable articles at  the  time  oftransporting  the  same from its premises to  another  placewithin the State of Bombay.Thus  the  only	 question that fell  for  consideration	 waswhether	 the  additional duty imposed and levied  under	 theNotification  was  legally levied.  The learned	 judge,	 whotried the suit, was of the opinion that it was competent forthe legislature to impose tax on excisable articles wheneverthey  were  transported from one place to another  and	thatthat  power was delegated-to the State Government which	 wasthus  competent to impose a duty on excisable  articles	 notonly  once when they were transported in the  beginning	 butalso  thereafter  whenever they were  transported  from	 oneplace  to another within the State before the  goods  passedinto the hands of the consumer, and dismissed the suit.The  respondent went in appeal against the  dismissal.	 Theappeal was heard by a Division Bench and was allowed and thesuit  was  decreed  with interest  at  certain	rates.	 TheDivision Bench was of the opinion that reading ss. 10 and 19together it was clear that when the duty mentioned in s.  19had  been  paid,  the prohibition contained in	s.  10	mustdisappear subject to the Explanation to s. 19.	It also heldthat  the  first proviso to s. 19A of the Act was  really  aproviso	 to s. 19 and determined the rate at which the	dutywas to be paid and that there could be no further impositionof   duty  against  the	 terms	of  that  proviso   by	 theNotification.The main contention on behalf of the appellant before us  isthat it is open to the legislature to impose excise duty  atmore points than one and that that was what has been done bythe legislature in this case and the Government when it madethe  Notification  in  December 1948 was  carrying  out	 theprovisions  of	the Act.  Reliance in  this  connection	 wasplaced	on ss. 3(10), 10 and 19 of the Act, and it is  urgedthat reading these three sections, together it will be clearthat the Notification was valid and within the powers of theState Government.The relevant portion of the Notification is in these terms:-401"  In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of	 theBombay	Abkari Act, 1878 (Bombay V of 1878), and in  partialsupersession of all previous orders and notifications issuedthereunder, that is to say, in so far as they relate to	 theimposition  of excise and countervailing duties	 charged  onthe excisable articles specified in column 1 of Schedules  Aand B hereto annexed, the Government of Bombay is pleased todirect that-(a)  excise  or	 countervailing duty, as the  case  may	 be,shall  be  imposed on the excisable  articles  specified  incolumn	1 of Schedule A at the rate specified in  columns  2and 3 thereof, when such excisable articles are(i)  imported  into  the  Province in  accordance  with	 theprovision of sub-section (1) of section 9 of thesaid Act; or(ii) issued  from  any brewery, distillery 'or	a  warehouseestablished under the said Act in theProvince; or(iii)	  transported from the premises of persons holding aTrade  and  Import license under the said Act to  any  placewithin the Province:Provided that no such duty shall be imposed on the excisablearticles  which	 have been imported into British  India	 andwere  liable  on such importation to duty under	 the  IndianTariff Act, 1934, or the Sea Customs Act, 1878:Provided  further that if excise or countervailing duty	 hasalready	 been  paid  on such excisable	articles  for  theirimport,	 issue	or transport for consumption  into,  to-  orwithin	any place in the Province, the amount of duty to  beimposed	 shall be the difference between the amount of	dutyleviable  at  the rates specified in the said  Schedule	 andthat already paid on such articles; and(b).......................................".Then  follow  the Schedules Which it is unnecessary  to	 setout.  By the notification excise duty at the rates specifiedin the Schedules is imposed on excisable articles when	theyare transported from the premises of persons holding a tradeand  import licence under the said Act to any  place  withinthe State.  The second402proviso,  however, provides that where some excise duty	 hasalready	 been paid in connection with transport, the  amountof  duty to be imposed under the Notification would  be	 thedifference between the duty leviable under the	Notificationand the duty already Paid.The  narrow  question therefore is whether  this  additionalduty  can be legally levied by the State of Bombay  and	 theanswer to it will depend on the three provisions of the	 Actrelied	upon  by  the appellant.   Sec.	 3(10)	defines	 "totransport" to mean "to move to one place from another  placewithin	the State ". This definition is very wide and  wouldcover  any movement of excisable article at any	 stage	fromone place to another within the State.Then comes s. 10, the relevant portion of which is in  theseterms-" No intoxicant and no hemp shall be exported or transportedunless-(a)  the  duty,	 if any, payable under Chapter VI  has	beenpaid or a bond has been executed for the payment thereof."This  section  thus forbids the transport of  any  excisablearticle	 unless	 the duty payable under	 Chapter  VI  (whichdeals with the subject of duties) has been paid.Lastly,	 we come to s. 19 which is the charging section	 andis in these terms-" An excise duty or countervailing duty, as the case may be,at  such rate or rates as the State Government shall  directmay  be imposed either generally or for any specified  localarea, on any excisable article-(a)  imported  in  accordance  with the	 provision  of	sub-section (1) of s. 9; or(b)  exported	or  transported	 in  accordance	  with	 theprovisions of s. 10; or(c)  manufactured under a license granted in accordance withthe provisions of section 14 or section 15; Provided that-(i)  duty  shall not be so imposed on any article which	 hasbeen imported into India and was liable on such	 importationto duty under the Indian Tariff Act, 1894 or the Sea CustomsAct, 1878:403Explanation-Duty  may  be  imposed  under  this	 section  atdifferent  rates  according  to	 the  places  to  which	 anyexcisable  article  is	to be removed  for  consumption,  oraccording  to  the  varying strengths and  quality  of	sucharticle."This section gives power to the State Government to fix	 therate or rates on which the duty will be levied on  transportof excisable articles.	The Explanation to the section givespowers to the State Government to impose duties at differentrates according to the places to which any excisable articleis to be removed for consumption or according to the varyingstrengths and quality of such article.The  argument on behalf of the appellant is that in view  ofthe  very wide definition of the word " transport " and	 theprohibition of transport contained in s. 10 without  paymentof  duty it is clear that every time there is transport	 theduty  becomes  payable	at  the	 rate  fixed  by  the  StateGovernment  under s. 19 and that there is nothing  in  thesesections  which in any way limitsthe power to levy  duty  atevery  stage of transport. If this argument is	accepted  itwill logically mean that every time there is transport of anexcisable  article  duty  will	have to	 be  paid  till	 theexcisable  article  has been actually  consumed.   In  otherwords when for example, the excisable article is transportedfrom  the bonded warehouse by a wholesaler he will  have  topay duty on it; when a wholesaler sells to a retailer  thereis  bound to be transport from the wholesaler's premises  tothe  retailer's premises and the duty will have to  be	paidagain.	 Finally  when the retailer sells it to	 a  consumerthere  will again be transport from the retailer's place  tothe  consumer's place and duty will have to be paid a  thirdtime.	Further if the interpretation as urged on behalf  ofthe  appellant	is accepted, the duty will have to  be	paidagain  and again in the cases mentioned above,	even  thoughthe rate remains the same.  The fact that in this particularcase the rate was changed and that the State Government onlydemanded  the  extra duty will not affect  the	question  ofinterpretation of the three provisions of the Act with whichwe  are	 concerned.   Was  it  then  the  intention  of	 thelegislature when it404made these provisions to levy duty irrespective of the	factwhether	 the rate was changed or not, again and again as  anexcisable  article passed from the bonded warehouse  to	 thewholesaler, from the wholesaler to the retailer and from theretailer to the consumer ?  It is true that it was competentfor  the  legislature  to make such  a	provision;  but	 thequestion  is whether the three provisions which we have	 setout  above, amount to making such a provision.	Sri  Umrigarfor the appellant fairly admits that if the rate of duty hadnot  been changed there would not have been any	 -demand  ofany  further duty on any sale by the respondent which  mighthave resulted in transport and that the practice was not  tocharge the same duty over again on sale by the wholesaler tothe retailer or by the retailer to the consumer even  thoughthese	sales  resulted	 in  transport	except	 where	 theExplanation  to	 s.  19 applies.  If  this  practice  is  inaccordance  with  law  when there is no change	in  duty  wecannot	see  how  the  excisable  article  which  had	beensubjected to duty once will be liable to further duty  equalto  the	 difference  when there is  increase  in  the  rate,(except	 of course where the Explanation to s. 19  applies).We  see	 nothing in s. 10 which lays down  that	 every	timethere  is transport, duty must be paid even though the	dutyhas  already  been  paid  when the  first  transport  of  anexcisable article takes place.	What s. 10 prohibits is	 thetransport of excisable article unless the duty has been paidthereon.  Once the duty has been paid the prohibition  unders.  10 no longer applies, unless the case is covered by	 theExpla. nation to s. 19.	 However wide may be the  definitionof  "  transport  "  what has to  be  seen  is	whether	 theprohibition under s. 10 is to apply even to those  excisablearticles on which duty has been paid.  On a plain reading ofs.  10, the prohibition under that section cannot  apply  totransport of excisable articles on which duty has been paid.Section	 19,  which is the charging  section,  provides	 forlevying	 of  duty  on  transport  in  accordance  with	 theprovisions  of s. 10.  This brings us back to s. 10 and	 thequestion  again	 is  whether  the  prohibition	having	beenremoved by payment of duty once, there is anything in s.  10which405requires that the duty should be paid again for transportingthe goods on which duty has been paid.	As we read s. 10  wefind  nothing in it which requires that duty should be	paidagain  for  transport once the duty has been  paid  and	 theprohibition removed subject always to the Explanation to  s.19.  Under that Explanation if there are different duties indifferent  regions and the excisable article which has	paidduty  of one region is removed to another region  where	 theduty  is different the excess will have to be paid in  orderthat prohibition of transport in that region may be removed.But  apart from the cases covered by the Explanation we	 cansee  no justification for reading S. 10 as giving  power  toimpose duty on the same excisable article again and again asit  moves  in  the course of trade  from,  say,	 the  bondedwarehouse  to the wholesaler and from the wholesaler to	 theretailer  and from the retailer to the	consumer.   Plainly,therefore,  once the duty has been paid and the	 prohibitionunder  s.  10  is removed the  transport  of  the  duty-paidexcisable  article  can	 take place free  from	any  furtherimposition, except where it is transported to a region wherethe  duty  is different from the region where  the  duty  ispaid.Nor do we find any power in the State Government to impose aduty  at  every movement during the course of trade  in	 thewords  of  s.  19.   All  that	s.  19	empowers  the  StateGovernment to do is to fix the rate of duty on transport  inaccordance with s. 10.	There is no delegation to the  StateGovernment  anywhere in the Act of the power to impose	dutyfrom  stage  to	 stage	during	the  movement  of  excisablearticles  in  the  course of trade.  It	 is  true  that	 thelegislature has the power if it so chooses, to levy duty  onevery movement; but as we read the three provisions on whichreliance has been placed we do not find any exercise of thatpower by the legislature.  Nor do we find any delegation  bythe  legislature of any such power to the State	 Government.The view therefore taken by the Division Bench that once theduty  mentioned in s. 19 has been paid the prohibition	con-tained	in  s.	10 must disappear, (subject  always  to	 theExplanation to s, 19), and that there is nothing in52406s.19 delegating any power to the State Government of levyingexcise duty more than once and at more than one point duringthe progress of the excisable goods from the time they leavethe  bonded warehouse till the time they reach the  consumeris  in	our opinion correct.  It is not in dispute  in	thiscase that the Explanation to s. 19 does not apply.Turning	 now  to the first proviso'.to s. 19-A,	 it  may  benoticed	 that that section deals with the manner of  levyingduty.  But the first proviso goes further and lays down thatwhere the duty is levied on issue from a bonded warehouse itwill be at the rate in force on the date of issue.  We agreewith  the  Division Bench that this proviso has	 no  logicalconnection with s. 19-A and would more properly be a provisoto  s. 19.  It has nothing to do with the manner of  paymentbut  is	 concerned  with the liability to pay  at  the	rateprevalent  on the date of issue from the  bonded  warehouse.If that is so, the quantum of tax is once for all determinedby  this proviso subject always to the Explanation to s.  19and  cannot  be	 increased thereafter.	 Reference  in	thisconnection was made to s. 15-A also.  But that section seemsto  have been inserted as a measure of abundant caution	 anddoes  not  appear  to go further than s. 10.   It  seems  todetermine  the	time and manner of payment  in	cases  whereexcisable  articles are kept in a distillery or	 brewery  orwarehouse or other place of storage established or  licensedunder the Act where duty may-not have been paid before	suchstorage.  It is not the charging section and cannot be	readto  go beyond s. 19 which is the charging section.   We	 aretherefore of opinion that on this ground also no  additionalduty  could be charged from the respondent in this  case  asthe Explanation to s. 19 has admittedly no application here.The  appeal  therefore fails and is  hereby  dismissed	withcosts.Appeal dismissed.407