PETITIONER:ADDITIONAL COLLECTOR, BANARES	Vs.RESPONDENT:MAHARAJ KISHORE KHANNADATE OF JUDGMENT:16/03/1959BENCH:ACT:       Execution of Decrees-Decree passed by Special judge in  U.P.       -If  can	 be executed  outside  U.  P.-Extra-territoriality-       Transfer of such decree-Collector and Additional	 Collector,       if exercise same powers-Limitation-U.  P. Encumbered Estates       Act,  1934 (U. P.XXV of 1934), ss.  14(7) and 24(3)-Code	 of       Civil  Procedure, 1908 (V of 1908), s. 39-Indian	 Limitation       Act, 1908 (IX of 1908), Art. 182.HEADNOTE:The  respondent, who owned landed properties at	 Banaras  inUttar  Pradesh and at Purnea in Bihar, was heavily  indebtedand  applied to the Collector, Banaras under s. 4 of the  U.P.  Encumbered	Estates Act, 1934, for, liquidation  of	 hisdebts.	 The  Collector, acting under s.  6,  forwarded	 theapplication  to the Special judge, appointed under  the	 Actwho on March 21, 1940, passed after the enquiry directed  bythe Act three money decrees in favour of three creditors  ofthe  respondent	 and  forwarded them to	 the  Collector	 forexecution.   Section  14(7) of the Act	provided  that	suchdecrees were to be deemed to be decrees of a civil Court365of  competent  jurisdiction.   Section	24(3)  of  the	 Actprovided  that	for purposes of execution  against  propertyoutside U. P. such decrees were to be deemed to be in favourof  the	 Collector.   The  execution  of  the  decrees	 wascommenced by the Additional' Collector, Banaras against	 therespondent's properties in U. P. Thereafter, the  AdditionalCollector  applied to the Additional Civil  judge,  Banaras,and on January 4, 1947, got the said decrees transferred  tothe  Subordinate  judge, Purnea and on March  17,  1947,  heapplied	 to  the  Subordinate Judge  for  execution  of	 thedecrees by attachment and sale of the respondents propertiesat  Purnea.  The Subordinate judge made an  order  directingexecution to issue, but, on appeal, the High Court set asidethe  order on the ground that the Subordinate Judge  had  nojurisdiction to entertain the execution application.Held, that the Subordinate judge Purnea had jurisdiction  toexecute	 the  decrees.	By virtue of s. 14(7) of the  Act  adecree of the Special judge was, within U. P., a decree	 forall  purposes  of  the Code of	Civil  Procedure  and  couldproperly  be  transferred  under  S.  39  Of  the  Code	 forexecution  to  a Court outside U. P. No question  of  extra-territorial operation of the Act arose in the application ofs.  14(7)  to  the decrees as the Purnea  Court	 was  merelyapplying the U. P. Act to decrees passed in U. P.For  the  purposes  of execution  and  sale  the  AdditionalCollector  was	to  be	deemed to be  the  Collector  as  heexercised  the Collector's powers in this regard.   As	suchthe  applications for transfer and execution of	 the  decreewere properly made by the Additional Collector.It  was	 the same Court which exercised the  powers  of	 theAdditional  Civil Judge as also those of the Special  judge.The  order of transfer of the decree made by the  AdditionalCivil  judge  could be treated as having been  made  by	 theSpecial judge.	As such it was made by the same Court  whichpassed	the decrees and was a good order under S. 39 of	 theCode.The application for execution before the Subordinate  judge,Purnea	was made while execution proceedings in	 respect  ofthe   same  decrees  were  pending  before  the	  AdditionalCollector,  Banaras and was a continuation of the same.	  Noquestion  of  limitation could arise in respect of  such  anapplication.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CIVIL Appeal No. 298 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 28, 1953,  ofthe Patna High Court in Appeal from Original Order No. 90 of1949,  arising out of the judgment and order  dated  January25, 1949, of the Sub-Judge, Purnea, in Misc.  Case No. 54 of1947.Sir  lqbal  Ahmad,  S.	N.  Andley,  J.	 B.  Dadachanji	 andRameshwar Nath, for the appellant.366M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India and R. C.  Prasad,for the respondent.1959.  March 16.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR,	 J.-This  appeal  arises  out  of  a  proceeding  inexecution  of an adjudication made under the  provisions  ofthe  United Provinces Encumbered Estates Act, 1934  (U.	  P.XXV of 1934), an Act passed by the legislature of the UnitedProvinces, now called the Uttar Pradesh.  The questions thatarise in this appeal largely turn on the provisions of	thatAct and they have therefore to be referred to.The  Act was intended to give relief to the  proprietors  ofcertain landed properties in the United Provinces.   Section4 of the Act enabled a proprietor of such landed  propertiesto  make an application in writing to the Collector  of	 theDistrict  in which any of his lands is situate, stating	 theamount	of his debts and asking for the application  of	 theAct  to	 him.	Upon such an  application  being  made,	 theCollector is to make an order under s. 6 forwarding it to  aSpecial Judge appointed under the Act who, under s. 3 is anycivil  judicial	 officer  appointed for	 a  local  area,  toexercise  the  powers conferred and to	perform	 the  dutiesimposed,  by  the Act.	Section 7 of the Act  provides	thatupon  the  making of an order by the Collector under  s.  6,subject	 to certain exceptions which it is not necessary  toenumerate,  all	 proceedings pending in the  courts  in	 theUnited	Provinces in respect of a debt due by the  applicantshall  be stayed and all execution processes issued  againsthim  by such courts shall become null and void and no  freshprocess	 in execution shall be issued against him,  nor	 anyfresh  suit  or other proceeding  instituted.	The  SpecialJudge  after he has received the application sent to him  bythe Collector is required by s. 8 to call upon the applicantto  submit a written statement verified in the manner  of  aplaint, setting out full particulars of his debts, the namesand addresses of his creditors and the nature and extent  ofhis proprietary rights in land as also of all his propertieswhich are liable to attachment under s. 60 of367the  Code of Civil Procedure.  Under s. 9 the Special  Judgehas  then  to publish a notice calling upon  persons  havingclaims	against	 the applicant to submit the same  within  atime  specified.  Section 10 states that the claimant  shallgive  full particulars of his claim and of  the	 applicant'sproperties.  Section 11 provides that the Special Judge willpublish a further notice specifying the properties mentionedby the applicant as belonging to him and any person  wishingto  make a claim to any such property has to do so within  acertain period.	 The same section gives power to the SpecialJudge  to  decide  the claims made  to	the  properties	 andprovides that the decision made by him is to be deemed to bea  decree  of  a  civil	 court	of  competent  jurisdiction.Section	 14  lays down that the Special Judge  will  inquireinto  the  claims  submitted by the  creditors	against	 theapplicant  and	decide the questions in issue  on  the	sameprinciples  as	those  on which a court of  law	 would	havedecided	 them, but he has the power to reduce  the  interestdue  and to give relief to the applicant in respect of	suchclaims under certain specified United Provinces Acts.	Sub-section	 (7)  of  s. 14 provides that if  upon	enquiry	 theSpecial	 Judge finds that any amount is due to any  claimanthe shall pass a simple money decree for such amount togetherwith costs and interest and " such decree shall be deemed tobe a decree of a civil court of competent jurisdiction " butit  shall  not	be executable within  the  United  Provincesexcept under the provisions of the Act.	 The next section tobe referred to is s. 19 which requires the Special Judge  tosend the decrees granted under s. 14(7) to the Collector forexecution in accordance with the provisions of Chapter V  ofthe  Act and to inform him of the nature and extent  of	 theproperty  which	 he has found to be liable  to	satisfy	 thedebts  of  the applicant.  Then come the  provisions  as  toexecution  contained  in  Chapter V. The  sections  in	thisChapter provide that the Collector will himself and  withoutbeing  required to be moved for the purpose by	any  person,proceed to execute the decree against the properties of	 theapplicant within the United Provinces by the various methodsindicated, and for368realising  the value of the applicant's properties the	Col-lector	shall have all the powers of a civil court  for	 theexecution of a decree.	With regard to the properties of theapplicant  outside the United Provinces, the Act  could	 notprovide	 for execution.	 To cover such cases it was  enactedby  s.	24(3)  that for the  purpose  of  execution  againstproperty outside the United Provinces the decrees passed  bythe Special Judge would be deemed to be decrees in favour ofthe Collector.	These are all the provisions of the Act thatneed be referred to for the purposes of this case.The  facts  may	 now  be stated.   The	respondent  was	 theproprietor of landed properties in the United Provinces	 andwas  entitled  to  claim relief under the  Act.	  He  becameheavily encumbered in debts.  It is not necessary to go intohis  financial embarrassment in great detail and it will  beenough	to say that in 1926 and 1927 he had created  severalmortgages on his properties in favour of the Allahabad Bank,the  Banaras Bank and a person called Kalia, for very  largesums.	In 1929, the Banaras Bank filed a suit	against	 therespondent  in	the  Court  of	the  Additional	  Sub-Judge,Banaras,  in  the United Provinces for	enforcement  of	 itsmortgage making the other creditors of the respondent  namedabove parties to the suit.  A decree was passed in that suitgiving	the  creditors	priority in a  certain	order.	 TheAllahabad  Bank	 not  being satisfied  with  that  order  ofpriority,  filed  an appeal in the High Court  at  Allahabadwhich  was  decided  in its favour.  While  the	 appeal	 waspending, the respondent applied to the Collector of  Banaresfor  relief under the Act.  The procedure laid down  in	 theAct as earlier summarised was duly followed and on March 21,1940,  the Special fudge of Banares to whom the	 applicationhad  been  forwarded by the Collector,	passed	three  moneydecrees	 in favour of the three creditors of the  respondentmentioned above in a certain order of priority with which weshall  not be concerned in this case.  The total  amount  ofsuch decrees came nearly to rupees nine lacs.  He then	sentthe  decrees  to the Collector of Banaras for  execution  asrequired by the Act.  The execution of the decrees 369was  thereafter	 commenced  by	the  Additional	  Collector,Banaras	 under	the  provisions	 of  the  Act  against	 theproperties in the United Provinces.The  respondent owns an estate in the district of Purnea  inBihar, called the Semapur estate.  Under s. 24(3) of the Actearlier	 mentioned, the decrees passed by the Special  Judgeare  to be deemed to be decrees in favour of  the  Collectorfor  the  purpose of execution against the  Semapur  estate.The Additional Collector, Banaras, applied to the AdditionalCivil  Judge, Banaras, for transmission of the said  decreesto the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Purnea for  executionand an order for transmission of the decrees to the Court atPurnea	was  accordingly made by that Judge  on	 January  4,1947.	 Thereafter  on	 March	17,  1947,  the	  AdditionalCollector,  Banaras,  applied  to  the	Subordinate   Judge,Purnea,	 as the transferee Court to execute the	 decrees  byattachment and sale of the Semapur estate.  The	 SubordinateJudge  thereupon made an order directing execution to  issueas  sought.  The respondent preferred an appeal to the	HighCourt  at  Patna from this order of the	 Subordinate  Judge,Purnea	and his appeal was allowed with the result that	 theexecution of the decrees against the Semapur estate  failed.The  present appeal is by the Additional Collector,  Banarasagainst the order of the High Court.The first question that arises in this appeal is whether theSubordinate   Judge,  Purnea,  bad  jurisdiction  to   orderexecution of the decree transferred to him.  The  High Courtheld that he did not have that jurisdiction.  The matter wasput in this way.  The decree was not a decree under the Codeof  Civil  Procedure.	It was only to	be  deemed  as	suchbecause of s. 14(7) of the Act.	 The Act -was an Act of	 theUnited	 Provinces  legislature	 which	could  not  pass   alegislation having effect outside the United Provinces.	 Theoperation  of  s.  14(7)  of the Act  had  therefore  to  beconfined  within the borders of the United  Provinces.	 TheSubordinate  Judge, Purnea could not apply that	 section  inBihar and treat the decree as a decree47370under  the Code.  If he could not do so he could  not  orderexecution of the decree.  If he were permitted	so to  applythe  Act,  then	 an Act of the	legislature  of	 the  UnitedProvinces would be indirectly affecting property outside theUnited	Provinces which it could not directly do.   The	 Actcould  be  applied  in Bihar only by  giving  it  an  extra-territorial operation.	This the law did not allow.  So	 thedecree could not be executed in Purnea.We  think that this argument is fallacious.  No question  ofany  extra-territorial application of the  United  ProvincesAct either directly or indirectly, arises in this case.	  Itis clear that by virtue of s. 14(7) of the Act, a decree  ofthe  Special  Judge  under  the Act  is	 within	 the  UnitedProvinces, a decree for all purposes of the Code.  It  couldtherefore  be transferred decree under s. 39 of the Code  ofCivil Procedure to a court outside the United Provinces, forexecution.  Now when a decree is transferred, it is the dutyof  the	 transferee  court  to execute	it  by	all  methodsprovided  by  the Code of Civil Procedure.  But it  is	saidthat  the  transferee court must be satisfied that it  is  adecree under the Code of Civil Procedure before it can orderexecution under that Code.  How then is the transferee courtto  decide  that ? It has before it a decree passed  not  byitself	but by another ,court.	It has therefore to  satisfyitself that the decree was one which, for that court, was  adecree	passed	under the Code.	 In order to do that  it  isasked to apply the United Provinces Act to the decree passedwithin the United Provinces.  How can it be said that if  itso  applies  the  United Provinces Act it is  giving  it  anextra-territorial  operation  ? It is doing nothing  of	 thekind.	It  is applying an Act of the  United  Provinces  tosomething  which  happened within the territories  of  thoseProvinces;  it	is  applying an United Provinces  Act  to  amatter	within	the  competence of the	legislature  of	 theUnited	Provinces  to  legislate upon.	 No  doubt  a  courtoutside the United Provinces is applying a statute of  thoseProvinces,  but	 that  does  not  amount  to  giving  extra-territorial  operation to that statute.	 If the	 statute  isbeing so applied371to one of its legitimate objects, it is not being given	 anyextra-territorial operation at all.We   further  find  it	difficult  to  appreciate  how	 theapplication by the Subordinate Judge of Purnea of the UnitedProvinces  Act to the decree of the Special Judge,  Banaras,sent  to him for execution, results in the United  ProvincesAct  affecting property outside the United  Provinces.	 Theonly  result of such application is to remove the  objectionthat  that decree is not a decree of a court in	 the  UnitedProvinces passed under the Code; the Act is not thereby madeto affect property outside the United Provinces.  Of course,if that decree is a decree under the Code it can be executedagainst	 any  property outside the United  Provinces.	Thathowever is not the result of the United Provinces Act but ofthe  Code of Civil Procedure which is a central	 legislationand  applies  to Bihar also.  The High Court  was  thereforewrong in thinking that the Subordinate Judge, Purnea, had nojurisdiction  to  execute the decree passed  under  the	 Actwithin the United Provinces and sent to him for execution.It  was	 then contended that the order of  transfer  of	 thedecree	was invalid because under s. 39 of the Code such  anorder  could be made only on the application of the  decree-holder	and in the present case it had not been made on	 hisapplication.   His  point was this.  Under s. 24(3)  of	 theAct,  a decree of the Special Judge is to be deemed to be  adecree	in  favour  of	the Collector  for  the	 purpose  ofexecution  against  property outside the  United  Provinces.Therefore,  in	the  present  case  it	was  the  Collector,Banaras, who was the decree holder and he alone could  applyfor the transfer of the decree.	 Actually however the  orderfor  the  transfer  had	 been  made  in	 this  case  on	 theapplication of the Additional Collector, Banaras.  So it wassaid the order was invalid.  Now this argument depends	uponthe  Collector and the Additional Collector being  differentpersons.   It  is  clear however that they  are	 not.	Thatappears	 from  ss. 14 and 14A of the United  Provinces	LandRevenue	 Act,  1901,  to  which	 our  attention	 was  drawn.Section	 14  gives  power to the  Government  to  appoint  aCollector for discharging the372duties	mentioned in the Act or any other law for  the	timebeing  in  force.   Section  14A(1)  gives  power  to	 theGovernment to appoint an Additional Collector.	 Sub-section(3) of s. 14A provides that the " Additional Collector shallexercise such powers and perform such duties of a Collector"as  the	 Government may direct.	  The  Additional  Collectortherefore  exercises such of the powers and discharges	suchof the functions of the Collector, as the Government directshim to do.  We have before us a document containing such  anorder  by which the work of sale and execution	which  underthe  Encumbered Estates Act had to be done by  a  Collector,had been entrusted to the Additional Collector.	 It  followsthat  for the purposes of execution and sale under the	Act,the Additional Collector is to be deemed to be the Collectoras  he	exercises the latter's powers in this  regard.	 TheAdditional Collection was hence quite competent to apply forthe transfer of the decree.The  third  point against the validity of the order  of	 thelearned	 Subordinate Judge was that under s. 39 of the	Codethe  decree  could be transferred only by  the	Court  whichpassed it.  It was said that in the present case it is	onlyby  virtue  of	s. 14 of the Act that the  decision  of	 theSpecial	 Judge is deemed to be a decree ; that since it	 washis  decision, he must be deemed to have passed it.  It	 wasthen  pointed  out that the order for the  transfer  of	 thedecree had in fact been made by the Additional Civil  Judge,Banaras,  and not by the Special Judge, Banaras,  and  hencethat order was of no effect.  This is an argument with whichwe  are not much impressed.  It has been pointed out  to  usthat  the  powers  of a special Judge  under  the  Act	wereconferred on the Court of the Additional Subordinate  Judge,Banaras,  by  the  United  Provinces  Government's   RevenueDepartment notification No. 767-Rev. published in the UnitedProvinces Gazette of the 12th October, 1935.  The AdditionalSubordinate  Judge later came to be called  the	 Additional-Civil Judge.  It is therefore the same court which exercisesthe  powers of an Additional Civil Judge as also those of  aSpecial Judge under the Act.  We find373no  difficulty in treating the order of transfer  as  havingbeen  made  by the Special Judge.  The fact that  the  orderpurported  to  be made by the Additional Civil Judge  was  amatter of mere irregularity and cannot make it invalid.	 Nordo we find any lack of power in the Special Judge to order atransfer  of  the  I decrees.  The  Act	 provides  that	 hisadjudication  would be treated as a decree of a civil  courtof  competent jurisdiction.  The execution of such a  decreeoutside the United Provinces is also clearly contemplated bys.  24(3).   We	 have earlier held that	 such  execution  ispermissible in law.  That being so, in order to give  effectto  the	 provisions of the Act it has to be  held  that	 theSpecial Judge must be deemed to be a court which passed	 thedecree	within	the meaning of s. 39 of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure.  Nor does there seem to be any objection to thinkthat  the  Special  Judge  is  a  civil	 court.	  From	 theprovisions of the Act earlier set out there is no doubt thathe  adjudicates upon rights of the parties and acts  in	 thesame  way as any other civil court would do.  Indeed,  apartfrom  the  fact	 that  the proceedings	before	him  do	 notcommence  by the filing of a plaint, we find no	 distinctionbetween him and a court as ordinarily understood.  The orderof  transfer of the decree is hence, in our view, clearly  agood order. Lastly,  it  was  said	 that  the  decree  was	 barred	  bylimitation long before the order for its transfer was  made.It  was	 contended  that  art. 182  of	the  Limitation	 Actgoverned the case, and the application for its execution hadbeen  made beyond the time limited.  The question  is,	doesthe  article apply ? The High Court held that  that  articlehad no application to the present case and that no  questionof limitation arose " for the execution proceeding in PurneaCourt  is merely a continuation of the execution  proceedingpending	 before the Collector of Banares ". In our  opinion,the  High Court was right in the view that it took.   It  isquite clear that if the application for execution with whichwe are concerned was made in a pending execution proceeding,notion	of  the application of art. 182 arises.	 It  =	longbeen374recognised  by	the courts in our country that	a  right  tocontinue  a  proceeding which is pending is  a	right  whicharises	from  day  to day-and no question  of  any   bar  oflimitation  with regard to the enforcement of such  a  rightarises:	 See Kedar Nath Dutt v. Harra Chand Dutt  (1)  SubbaChariar v. Muthuveeran Pillai (2).The  question  then is, was the	 application  for  executionwhich  has  resulted  in the order  under  appeal,  one	 forcontinuing  a  pending	execution proceeding  ?	 It  is	 notdisputed  that	all along since the decree was sent  by	 theSpecial Judge to the Collector for execution and before thatdate the decree was not executable it has continuously	beenin  execution  under  the  provisions  of  the	Act  by	 theAdditional  Collector,	Banaras,  and  that  such  executionproceeding   was  pending  on  the  date  of   the   presentapplication  for execution.  The question thus	is,  whetherthe  execution	proceeding  started  in	 the  Court  of	 theSubordinate  Judge,  Purnea,  was  a  continuation  of	 theexecution  proceeding by the Additional Collector,  Banaras.We  think it was.  We have to remember that s. 14(7) of	 theAct which said that an adjudication of the special Judge wasto  be deemed to be a decree also provided that that  decreewould  not be executable within the United Provinces  exceptunder  the provisions of the Act.  We have also to  rememberthat the Act provided that as against the properties  withinthe  United Provinces the decree could only be	executed  bythe  Collector on his own by the various  methods  provided.We  may also point out that s. 24(4) provides that  for	 thepurpose	 of such execution the Collector is to have all	 thepowers	of a civil court for the execution of a decree.	  Itis  therefore clear that the only mode of execution  of	 thedecree	within the United Provinces contemplated by the	 Actis  the	 execution  by the  Collector.	 Within	 the  UnitedProvinces the execution of the decree by the Collector wouldbe deemed to be an execution under the Civil Procedure Code.The  execution	by the Collector is execution of what  is  adecree within the Code.	 When the decree is executed outsidethe  United Provinces, where, as already stated, it  can  belegally(1)  (1882)  I.L.R. 8 Cal, 420. (2) (1912) I.L.R.  36	Mad.553.375executed,  the	amount	realised by  the  execution  by	 theCollector   has	 to  be-  taken	 into  account.	  When	 theSubordinate  Judge,  Purnea, has to decide  the	 question  ,whether	 the  application for execution made to	 him  is  incontinuance  of an existing execution proceeding, he has  torecognise  the proceeding before the  Additional  Collector,Banares, as a proceeding in execution under the Code for  itis so under the Act.  In doing this, for the reasons earliermentioned,  he	would not be  giving  any  extra-territorialoperation  to  the Act.	 It seems to us therefore  that	 theexecution  of the decree by the Collector must be deemed  tobe  execution of a decree for all purposes and therefore  anapplication  made  to  the Subordinate	Judge,	Purnea,	 forexecution  of the same decree while an execution  proceedingwas pending before the Collector, must be a continuation  ofthe execution last mentioned.  No question of limitation canarise in regard to such an application.We  think therefore that this appeal must succeed.   We	 setaside  the order of the High Court and restore the order  ofthe Subordinate Judge, Purnea.	The respondent will pay	 thecosts of the appellant in this Court and in the High Court.Appeal allowed.