PETITIONER:MAHANT MOTI DAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:S. P. SAHI, THE SPECIAL OFFICER IN CHARGEOF HINDU RELIGIOUSDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/04/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  942		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 503 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC 951	 (4) R	    1959 SC1002	 (6) F	    1959 SC1073	 (9,14) R	    1960 SC 554	 (8,9) E	    1980 SC 161	 (12) RF	    1991 SC 672	 (33)ACT:Hindu  Religious  Trusts-Constitutional	 validity  of  BiharHindu  Religious Trusts Act-Difference between Hindus,	Jainand   Sikh  religious	trusts-Legislative   classification-Restrictions   imposed	on   trustees-Validity-Whether	 Actinterferes  with Practice of religion-Levy of a fee for	 theexpenses  of  administration  of  Act  Legality-Bihar  HinduReligious  Trusts Act, 1950 (Bihar 1 of 1951), SS. 2, 5,  6,7, 8, 28, 29, 32, 55(2), 60, 70-ConstitutiOn of India, Arts.14, 19(1)(f), 19(5), 25, 26, 27.HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 as the Mahants of the respective  maths  orasthals	 were served with notices under s. 59 of  the  BiharHindu  Religious Trusts Act, 195o, by the  President,  BiharState  Board  of Religious Trusts, asking  them	 to  furnishstatements   and  accounts  of	the  properties	  in   theirpossession.  They challenged the constitutional validity  ofthe  Act  by  proceedings taken in the	High  Court  on	 thegrounds	 (1) that ss. 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the  Act  infringeArt.   14  Of  the  Constitution,  inasmuch  as	 there	 wasinequality of treatment as between Hindu religious trusts onone hand and Sikh religious trusts on the other, the  latterhaving	been excluded from the purview of the Act, and	thatthere  was  inequality of treatment even  as  between  Hindureligious trusts and Jain religious trusts, though both cameunder the Act; (2) that the provisions of ch.  V of the	 Actand in particular ss. 28 and 32 violate Art. 19(1)(f) of theConstitution,  as  under  those	 provisions  the  mahant  orShebait	 practically  loses his right of management  and  isreduced to the position of a mere servant of the Board;	 (3)that the provisions of the Act contravene Arts. 25 and 26 ofthe Constitution, as the power to alter or modify the budgetrelating  to  a	 religious  trust  or  the  power  to	givedirections  to	a trustee may be exercised by the  Board  insuch  a	 way as to affect the due  observance  of  religiouspractices  in the math or temple; (4) that s. 70 imposes  anunauthorised  tax,  and (5) that s. 55(2)  contravenes	Art.I33 of the Constitution.Held,  (1)  that in view of the fact that in the  matter  ofreligious   trusts  in	the  State  of	Bihar,	 there	 aredifferences  between  Sikhs, Hindus and jains and  that	 theneeds of jains and Hindus are not the same in the matter  ofthe administration of564their  respective religious trusts, it is open to the  BiharLegislature to exclude Sikhs who might have been in no	needof  protection and to distinguish between Hindus and  jains.Accordingly,  SS.  2,  5,  6, 7, and 8 of  the	Act  do	 notinfringe Art. 14 Of the Constitution.It  is	well  settled  that  while  Art.  14  forbids  classlegislation,  it does not forbid  reasonable  classificationfor  the purposes of legislation, and in order to  pass	 thetest  of permissible classification, two conditions must  befulfilled,  namely,  (1)  that the  classification  must  befounded	 on an intelligible differentia which  distinguishedpersons or things that are grouped together from others leftout  of the group and (2) that that differentia must have  arational relation to the object sought to be achieved by thestatute in question.Shri  Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Shri Justice S.  R.	 Tcndollkar,[1959] S.C.R. 279, relied on.(2)  that  having  regard to the position of  a	 trustee  inrespect of the trust property which he holds and the  objector purpose of the Act, the restrictions imposed in Ch.	V ofthe  Act  are  really for the purpose of  carrying  out	 theobjects	 of  the trust and for	the  better  administration,protection and preservation of the trust properties, and arereasonable  restrictions  in the interests  of	the  generalpublic	within	the  meaning Of cl. (5) Of Art.	 19  of	 theConstitution.(3)  that the Act does not contravene Arts. 25 and 26 of theConstitution,  as the provisions of the Act relating to	 thepower  of  the	Board  to  alter  the  budget  and  to	givedirections  to	the  trustee are  subject  to  restrictions,namely,	 that they must be for the proper administration  ofthe  religious trust ; and, further, none of the  provisionsinterfere  with " matters of religion " including  practiceswhich  a  religious  denomination regards  as  part  of	 itsreligion.(4)  that  S. 70 Of the Act is a valid provision as it	onlyprovides for the levy of a fee for the purpose of  defrayingthe   expenses	 incurred   or	to  be	 incurred   in	 theadministration of the Act and is not a tax.Mahant	Sri  jagannath Ramanuj Das v. The State	 of  Orissa,[1954] S.C.R. 1046, followed.(5)  that S. 55(2) Of the Act does not contravene Art.	 I33Of  the	 Constitution  as it does not  override	 or  is	 notintended  to override Art. 133 or any other Article  of	 theConstitution relating to appeals to the Supreme Court.JUDGMENT:Civil, APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 225,	226,228, 229 and 248 of 1955.Appeals from the judgments and orders dated October 5, 1953,in Misc.  Judicial Cases Nos. 418/52 and 124/53 and  October8, 1953., in T. S. No. 106/53,565Misc.	Judicial Cases Nos. 188/53 and 235/53 of  the  PatnaHigh Court.R.   Patnaik, for the appellant (in C. A. No. 225/55).R.   C.Prasad, for the appellants (in C. As.  Nos. 226, 228,229 & 248/55).Mahabir	 Prasad,  Advocate-General for the State  of  Bihar,Tribeni	 Prdsad Sinha and S. P. Varma, for  the	 respondents(in C. As.  Nos. 225, 226, 228 & 229/55).Mahabir Prasad, Advocate-General for the State of Bihar	 andS. P. Varma, for the respondent (in C. A. No. 248/55).1959.	  April 15.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredby'S.   K.	 DAS, J.-This is a batch of five appeals which	havebeen heard together and the principal question for  decisionin these appeals is the constitutional validity of the BiharHindu  Religious  Trusts  Act,,	 1950  (Bihar  I  of  1951),hereinafter  referred to as the Act.  Four of these  appealsarise  out  of writ proceedings taken in the High  Court  ofPatna  on  petitions  made under Arts. 226 and	227  of	 theConstitution.  One of them, namely, Civil Appeal No. 228  of1955,  arises out of a suit which was originally  institutedin the Court of the Subordinate Judge of Patna but was latertransferred to the High Court by an order made by it  tinderArt.  228 of the Constitution.	The Petitioners in the	writpetitions  and	the plaintiffs in the  suit  challenged	 theconstitutional	validity  of the Act on certain	 grounds  towhich we shall presently refer.	 The petitions and the	suitwere  contested by the State of Bihar and/or the  President,Bihar  State  Board  of	 Religious  ,trusts,  who  are	 nowrespondents before us.The  High  Court  in three  separate  judgments,  two  datedOctober	 5, 1953, and the third dated October 8, 1953,	heldthat  the Act was a valid piece of legislation and  on	thatmain finding dismissed the writ petitions and the suit.	 Thepetitioners  and  the  plaintiff-,,  appellants	 before	 us,applied	 for and obtained certificates from the	 High  Courtunder  Art. 132 of the Constitution to the effect  that	 thecases involved substantial ques-566tions  of law as to the interpretation of  the	Constitutionand the appeals have been brought to this Court in pursuanceof those certificates.The facts lie within a very narrow compass.  In Civil AppealNo.  225  of 1955 the appellant is Mahant Moti Das,  and  healleged	 that he was the Mahant of a math or astral  situatein village Parbatta, district Monghyr, in Bihar, that he wasa follower of the religion founded by Sri Kabir Sahib,	thatthe  properties	 of  the  asthal  were	treated	 as  privateproperties  of	the mahants and that the  President  of	 theBihar State Board of Religious Trusts constituted under	 theAct had no authority to serve him with a notice under s.  59of  the	 Act,  inasmuch	 as the	 Act  was  ultra  vires	 andunconstitutional  and,	in any event, did not apply  to	 hismath  or  asthal.   In	Civil Appeal No.  226  of  1955	 theappellant  Mahant Ram Das similarly alleged that he was	 themahant	of a math or asthal situate in village	Bhuthari  inthe same district of Monghyr, that he was a "bairagi sadhu "and follower of Ramanandi Laskari Sri Vaishnava	 Sampradaya,that  he was the absolute owner of the properties  belongingto  the	 math and that the President, Bihar State  Board  ofReligious Trusts, had no authority to issue a notice to	 himasking	him  to	 furnish  statements  and  accounts  of	 theproperties  in his possession.	In Civil Appeal No.  228  of1955 the appellants made similar allegations in their plaintand challenged the " vires " of the Act, mentioning as theircause  of  action  the	date on	 which	the  assent  of	 thePresident  of  India to the Act was first published  in	 theBihar  Gazette.	  In  Civil  Appeal  No.  229  of  1955	 theappellant  Mahant Mahabir Das stated that he was the  Mahantof  a asthal known as Bisanpur Asthal situate in  the  self-same   district.   He  also  received  a  notice  from	 thePresident, Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts, to furnishstatements and accounts, and he challenged the vires of	 theAct  on	 similar grounds.  In Civil Appeal No. 248  of	1955Mahant Ram Krishna Das alleged that the temple in  question,known  as  Bhikam as Thakurbari in the town  of	 Patba,	 wasconstructed  by	 one  Benidasji with his own  money  and  heinstalled certain deities therein.567The  allegation	 was  that the	temple	and  the  propertiesthereof did not constitute a ' religious trust ' within	 themeaning	 of that expression in the Act and further that	 theAct  was  ultra	 vires	the  Constitution  inasmuch  as	  itinfringed  some of his fundamental rights.  The	 defence  inall  these cases was that the Act was valid, and applied  tothe  asthals  or  temple  in  question	and  the  propertiesthereof.The principal argument presented before us on behalf of	 theappellants  is	that the Act is bad on the ground  that	 itsseveral	 provisions  infringe  the  appellants'	 fundamentalrights guaranteed under (a) Art. 14; (b) Art. 19 (1)(f); and(e)  Arts. 25, 26 and 27 of the Constitution.  The  Act	 hasalso  been  impugned  on  the  ground  that  it	 imposes  anUnauthorised  tax  and	also contravenes  Art.	133  of	 theConstitution.At  this stage, it is necessary to advert to the  object  orpurpose	 of  the  Act and set out  the	relevant  provisionsthereof	 The  Act was passed by the  Bihar  Legislature	 andreceived  the  assent of the President,,  which	 assent	 waspublished  in the Bihar Gazette on February 21,	 1951.	 Thelong  title of the Act and the preamble give the  object  ofthe Act.  The long title says that it is an "Act to  providefor the better administration of Hindu Religious Trusts	 andfor   the   protection	and   preservation   of	  propertiesappertaining to such trusts." The preamble repeats the	sameobject	or purpose, and makes it further clear that the	 Actis  meant to provide for the better administration of  HinduReligious Trusts in the State of Bihar.	 Section I gives theshort  title, and provides for extent and commencement,	 theAct having come into force on August 15, 1951.	Section 2 isthe  definition	 section, and the word 'Hindu'	in  the	 Actmeans  a person professing any religion of Hindu origin	 andincludes a Jain and a Buddhist, but does not include a Sikh.The  expressions " religious trust " and " trust property  "are defined in the following way :-"Section  2  (1).  I religious trust' means any	 express  orconstructive  trust  created  or existing  for	any  purposerecognised   by	 Hindu	Law  to	 be  religious,	  pious	  orcharitable, but shall not include a trust created568according to the Sikh religion or purely for the benefit  ofthe  Sikh community and a private endowment created for	 theworship	 of  a	family	idol in which  the  public  are	 notinterested ;(p)  I trust property' means the property appertaining to  areligious trustSection 3 states:"  This	 Act shall apply to all	 religious  trusts,  whethercreated	 before or after the commencement of this  Act,	 anypart  of the property of which is situated in the  State  ofBihar.	"Section	 4  was	 amended by Bihar Act 16  of  1954,  and  itprovides for necessary amendment or repeal, as the case	 maybe,  of certain earlier Acts dealing with  public  religioustrusts	and  charitable endowments, such as,  the  ReligiousEndowments Act, 1863 (20 of 1863), the Charitable EndowmentsAct,  1890  (6	of 1890) and the  Charitable  and  ReligiousTrusts Act, 1920 (14 of 1920).	Sub-section (5) of s. 4	 hasan  important bearing on one of the questions before us	 andmust be quoted in full :"Section  4  (5).  The Religious Endowments Act,  1863,	 andsection	 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, shall	 notapply  to any religious trust in this State, as	 defined  inthis Act."Chapter	 II  of the Act deals with the constitution  of	 theBoard.	Section 5 provides for the constitution of the BiharState  Board of Religious Trusts.  Section 5(3) states	thatthe Board shall be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal with power to acquire and	holdproperty,  both	 moveable and immovable.   Section  7  makesprovision  for	the  appointment of the	 President  and	 themembers	 of  the  first Board and  their  terms	 of  office.Section	 8  contains the terms of the  constitution  of	 thesecond and every subsequent Board.  Chapter IV refers to theappointment  and qualification of the Superintendent of	 thereligious  trusts.   The chapter further  provides  for	 theappointment of officers and servants for the Board.  ChapterV relates to the power and duties of the Board.	 Section  28(1)  provides  that  the  general  superintendence  of	 allreligious trusts in the State shall be vested in the569Board  and  the	 Board shall do all  things  reasonable	 andnecessary to ensure that such trusts are properly supervisedand  administered  and	that the  income'  thereof  is	dulyappropriated  and applied to the objects of such trusts	 andin  accordance with the purposes for which such trusts	werefounded and for which they exist.  Section 28 (2) enumeratesin great detail the powers and duties of the Board in regardto  certain matters.  Section 28(2)(e), for example,  statesthat  the duty of the Board shall be to cause inspection  tobe  made  of the property and the office  of  any  religioustrust including accounts and to authorise the Superintendentor  any	 of  its  members, officers  or	 servants  for	thatpurpose.   Section  28(2)(g)  empowers	the  Board  to	givedirections  for	 the proper administration  of	a  religioustrust  in accordance with the law governing such  trust	 andthe  wishes of the founder in so far as such wishes  can  beascertained.   Section	32 empowers the Board  to  settle  ascheme	for the proper administration of  religious  trusts.Chapter	 VI refers to the establishment of  regional  trustscommittees  and	 the  powers  and  duties  imposed  on	suchcommittees.   Chapter VIII refers to transfer  of  immovableproperties  and borrowing of money by trustees.	 Section  44of  this chapter states that no transfer made by a  trustee,of  any	 immovable property of a religious trust by  way  ofsale,  mortgage, or lease for a term exceeding	three  yearsshall be valid unless made with the previous sanction of theBoard.	Section 45 prohibits a trustee from borrowing  moneyfor the purpose of any religious trust without the  previoussanction  of the Board.	 Chapter X relates to  trustees	 andtheir duties.  Section 59 of this chapter imposes a duty  onthe  trustee to furnish particulars of the religious  trust.Section	 60  relates to the budget of religious	 trusts	 andsubmission  of such budgets to the Board and the  Board	 mayalter or modify the budget in such manner and to such extentas  it thinks fit.  Chapter Xi relates to audit of  accountsand  recovery  of irregular expenses from  the	trustees  indefault.  Chapter XIII provides for the creation of a  trustfund which is to be vested in the 72570Board.	Section 70 states that for the purpose of  defrayingthe  expenses incurred in the administration of the Act	 thetrustee of every religious trust shall pay to the Board suchfee, not exceeding five per centum of its net income as	 theBoard  may from time to time with the previous	sanction  ofthe  State Government determine.  Chapter XVI  provides	 forthe  dissolution or supersession of the Board.	 Section  80states	that if in the opinion of the State  Government	 theBoard makes default in the performance of the duties imposedon it or exceeds or abuses its powers, the State  Governmentmay  declare the Board to be in default and direct that	 theBoard  shall be superseded.  Section 81 provides that  wherean order of supersession has been passed, all the members ofthe Board shall vacate their offices as such members and allthe powers and duties to be performed by the Board shall  beperformed by such person as the State Government may direct.Section	 81 empowers the State Government to make rules	 ands.  83 empowers the Board to make bye-laws not	inconsistentwith the Act and the rules made thereunder.We  proceed now to consider the contentions urged on  behalfof  the	 appellants.   The  first  contention  is  that	 theprovisions  in ss. 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 infringe Art. 14 of	 theConstitution.  It is pointed out that the definition of	 theword  '	 Hindu' in s. 2 does riot include Sikhs;  and  s.  5constitutes  a	Board for religious trusts other  than	Jainreligious  trusts,  and	 also two  separate  Boards-one	 forSwetambar  Jain religious trusts and the other for  DigambarJain religious trusts.	It is further pointed out that underss.  6, 7 and 8 the constitution of the Board for  religioustrusts other than Jain religious trusts differs in  materialparticulars from the constitution of the two Boards for Jainreligious   trusts.   The  submission  is  that	  there	  isinequality of treatment as between Hindu religious trusts onone hand and Sikh religious trusts on the other, the  latterhaving been excluded from the purview of the Act;  secondly,there  is  inequality  of treatment even  as  between  Hindureligious trusts and Jain religious trusts, though both comeunder the Act.	We do not571think  that there is any substance in this contention.	 Theprovisions  of Art. 14 of the Constitution had come  up	 fordiscussion  before this Court in a number of  earlier  cases(see  the  cases referred to in Shri Ram Krishna  Dalmia  v.Shri  Justice  S.  R. Tendolkar	 (1)).	 It  is,  therefore,unnecessary  to enter upon any lengthy discussion as to	 themeaning,  scope and effect of the Article.  It is enough  tosay that it is now well settled by a series of decisions  ofthis Court that while Art. 14 forbids class legislation,  itdoes  not forbid reasonable classification for the  purposesof legislation, and in order to pass the test of permissibleclassification,	 two conditions must be	 fulfilled,  namely,(1)   that  the	 classification	 must  be  founded   on	  anintelligible  differential  which distinguishes	 persons  orthings that are grouped together from others left out of thegroup and (2) that differentia must have a rational relationto  the	 object	 sought to be achieved	by  the	 statute  inquestion.   The classification may be founded  on  differentbases  such  as, geographical, or according  to	 objects  oroccupations  and  the  like.  The decisions  of	 this  Courtfurther	 establish that there is a presumption in favour  ofthe constitutionality of an enactment and the burden is uponhim  who  attacks  it to show that there has  been  a  cleartransgression of the constitutional guarantee ; that it mustbe  presumed that the legislature understands and  correctlyappreciates  the needs of its own people and that  its	lawsare  directed  to problems made manifest by  experience	 andthat its discriminations are based on adequate grounds;	 andfurther that the legislature is free to recognise degrees ofharm  and may confine its restrictions to those cases  wherethe  need is deemed to be the clearest.	 It is not  disputedbefore us, and this has been pointed out by the High  Court,that  there are some differences between Hindus,  Sikhs	 andJains  in some of the essential details of the	faith  whichthey  profess and the religious practices they observe;	 theSikhs have no caste or priests, though they have grantis whoofficiate  at  marriages and other ceremonies; they  do	 notbelieve	 in the Vedas, Puranas or Shastras, at least not  inthe same(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 279.372way  as the Hindus believe in them.  The Jains also  do	 notrecognise  the	divine	authority of the Vedas	and  do	 notpractise  sradhs  or  ceremonies of the dead,  nor  do	theyrecognise  the spiritual authority of the Brahmins  (Maine'sHindu  Law,  11th  Edition, p. 82).   It  has  been  furtherpointed	 out that there are also organizational	 differencesin the matter of religious trusts between Hindus, Sikhs	 andJains.	 There are not many Sikh religious trusts in  Bihar,and  their  organization is  essentially  different.   Jainsconsist	 of two main branches-Swetambar Jains  and  DigambarJains-and  each branch has a separate central  organisation.Section	 8  of	the Act recognises  these  differences;	 forexample,  there is an assembly' of Swetambar Jains known  asShree Sangh and under s. 8(2)(c) of, the Act the Shree Sanghis  entitled  to  elect	 five per-. sons  to  the  Board  ofSwetambar  Jain Religious Trust.  Similarly, Digambar  Jainsalso have an assembly known as the Digambar Samaj and  unders.  8(3)(c)  of the Act this assembly is entitled  to  electfive persons to the Board for Digambar Jain Religious Trust.In  view of these differences it cannot be said that in	 thematter	of  religious trusts in the State of  Bihar,  Sikhs,Hindus and Jains are situated alike or that the needs of theJains  and  Hindus  are	 the  same  in	the  matter  of	 theadministration	 of  their  respective	 religious   trusts;therefore, according to the well established principles laiddown   by   this   court   with	  regard   to	 legislativeclassification,	 it  was open to the  Bihar  Legislature  toexclude	 Sikhs who might have been in no need of  protectionand to distinguish between Hindus and Jains.  Therefore, thecontention  urged  on  behalf of  the  appellants  that	 theseveral	 provisions of the Act contravene Art. 14 is  devoidof any merit.The  next  contention urged on behalf of the  appellants  isthat  the provisions in Chapter V, and in particular ss.  28and  32,  violate the fundamental right	 guaranteed  to	 theappellants under Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution,  namely,their  right  to  acquire, hold and  dispose  of  the  trustproperties.   This argument before us has proceeded  on	 thefooting	 that the properties which the appellants  bold	 aretrust properties within573the  meaning  of the Act ; but we must state here  that	 theappellants  have also alleged that the properties are  theirprivate	 properties,  to which aspect of the case  we  shalladvert later.  Chapter V of the Act, and in particular s. 28thereof,  lays down the powers and duties of the Board.	  Tosome  of  these	 powers	 and duties  we	 have  already	madea  reference earlier.  Section 32 gives power to the  Board,of  its	 own  motion or on application made to	it  in	thatbehalf	by two or more persons interested in any  trust,  tosettle	schemes for proper administration of  the  religioustrust.	 There are other sections in the chapter which	givethe Board power to enter into contracts and to borrow money,etc., for carrying out any of the purposes of the Act or  togive  effect to the provisions thereof.	 Under s.  58  everytrustee must carry out all directions which may from time totime  be  issued  to  him by the  Board	 under	any  of	 theprovisions of the Act.	The powers given under s. 28 includethe  power  to	prepare	 and settle  the  budget,  to  causeinspection to be made of the property and the office of	 anyreligious trust, to call for information, reports,  returns,etc., to give directions for the proper administration of  areligious  trust in accordance with the law  governing	suchtrusts	and the wishes of the founder, to remove  a  trusteefrom his office in certain circumstances, and to control andadminister  the trust fund, etc.  The argument before us  isthat  the  position  of a maharani or  shebait	of  a  Hindureligious  trust is a combination of office and	 proprietaryright  and  under the provisions of the Act  the  mahant  orshebait	 practically  loses his right of management  and  isreduced	 to  the position of a mere servant  of	 the  Board;this,  it  is  contended, is violative	of  the	 appellants'fundamental right under Art. 19(1)(f).In Angurbala Mullick v. Debabrata Mullick (1) Mukherjea, J.,delivering  the	 majority judgment of this Court,  has	saidthat  the  exact  legal position of a, shebait	may  not  becapable	 of  precise definition, but  its  implications	 arefairly	well  established.   It	 is  now  settled  that	 therelation of a shebait in regard to(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 1125, 1133.574debutter property is not that of a trustee to trust propertyunder the English law.Mukherjea, J., said :"  In  English law the legal estate in	the  trust  propertyvests in the trustee who holds it for the benefit of  cestuique trust.  In a Hindu religious endowment on the other handthe   entire   ownership  of  the  dedicated   property	  istransferred  to	 the deity or the institution  itself  as  ajuristic person and the shebait or mahant is a mere manager.But  though a shebait is a manager and not a trustee in	 thetechnical  sense,  it would not be correct to  describe	 theshebaitship  as	 a mere office.	 The shebait  has  not	onlyduties to discharge in connection with the endowment, but hehas    a    beneficial	  interest    in    the	    debutterproperty............  In  almost  all  such  endowments	 theshebait has a share in the usufruct of the debutter propertywhich depends upon the terms of the grant or upon custom  orusage.	Even where no emoluments are attached to the  officeof the shebait, he enjoys some sort of right or interest  inthe  endowed  property	which partially	 at  least  has	 thecharacter  of a proprietary right.  Thus, in the  conceptionof  shebaiti  both the elements of office and  property,  ofduties	and  personal  interest, are mixed  up	and  blendedtogether  ; and one of the elements cannot be detached	fromthe  other.   It  is  the  presence  of	 this  personal	  orbeneficial  interest in the endowed property  which  investsshebaitship  with  the character of proprietary	 rights	 andattaches to it the legal incidents of property."It  is to be remembered that even before the passing of	 theAct  here  impugned,  there  was  statutory  machinery	 forenforcing the obligations and duties imposed Upon mahant  orshebait.  Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure providedthat  in  the case of an alleged breach of  any	 express  orconstructive   trust  created  for  public  purposes  of   acharitable or religious nature or where the direction of thecourt  was  deemed necessary for the administration  of	 anysuch  trust,  the Advocate-General, or two or  more  personshaving	an  interest in the trust and  having  obtained	 theconsent in writing of the Advocate-General, might institute575a  suit	 to obtain a decree-(a) to remove any  trustee,	 (b)appointing  a  new trustee, (c) vesting any  property  in  atrustee, (d) directing accounts and enquiries, (e) declaringwhat  proportion  of the trust property or of  the  interesttherein	 shall be allocated to any particular object of	 thetrust,	(f) authorising the whole or any part of  the  trustproperty  to  be  let, sold,  mortgaged	 or  exchanged,	 (g)settling  scheme and/or (h) granting such further  or  otherrelief as the nature of the case might require.	 The sectiontherefore provided an important machinery for enforcing	 theobligations   and  duties  imposed  on	trustees   and	 thejurisdiction  given to the court was of a very wide  extent.Now, the right guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(f) is subject  tocl. (5), thereof, which says inter alia that nothing in sub-clause	(f)  shall  prevent the State from  making  any	 lawimposing  reasonable  restrictions on the  exercise  of	 theright  conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests  ofthe  general public.  We are of the view, in agreement	withthat of the High Court, that the restrictions imposed by theAct on the power of the trustees are really intended, as thepreamble of the Act states, for the better administration ofHindu  religious  trusts in the State of Bihar and  for	 theprotection  and preservation of properties  appertaining  tosuch  trusts.	It is indeed true that the  Act	 provides  abetter	and  more speedy remedy for the enforcement  of	 theobligations  and  duties imposed on the	 trustees  than	 thelengthy and cumbrous procedure of a suit under s. 92 of	 theCivil  Procedure  Code.	 The Board is  vested  with  summarypowers	in  various  matters,  but  the	 control  is  to  beexercised  for the better and more efficient  administrationof the trust and for the protection and preservation of	 thetrust properties.  It is germane to refer in this connectionto sub-s. (1) of s. 28 which states that the Board shall  doall  things  reasonable	 and necessary to  ensure  that	 thereligious  trusts are properly supervised  and	administeredand that the income thereof is duly appropriated and appliedto  the	 objects of such trusts and in accordance  with	 thepurposes for which such trusts were founded.  Section57660  (2) no doubt empowers the Board to alter or	 modify	 thebudget	of  any religious trust in such manner and  to	suchextent	as it thinks fit ; but sub-s. (6) of s. 60 makes  itclear that nothing contained in the section shall be  deemedto  autborise the Board to alter or modify any budget  in  amanner	or to an extent inconsistent with the wishes of	 thefounder,  so far-as such wishes can be ascertained, or	withthe  provisions	 of the Act.  Section 28 (2) (h)  gives	 theBoard  power to remove a trustee from his office in  certaincontingencies; but sub-s. (3) of s. 28 says that an order ofremoval	 passed	 by the Board under el. (h)  of	 sub-s.	 (2)shall  be  communicated to the trustee	concerned  and	suchtrustee	 may  within 90 days of the  communication  of	suchorder apply to the District Judge for varying, modifying  orsetting	 aside the order.  Section 28 (2) (j)  empowers	 theBoard  to  sanction  the conversion of	any  property  of  areligious  trust  into	another property  if  the  Board  issatisfied that such conversion is beneficial for the  trust;there  is,  however,  an  important  proviso  that  no	suchconversion shall be sanctioned unless the Board so  resolvesby  a majority which includes at least three-fourths of	 itsmembers	 and  the  resolution is approved  by  the  DistrictJudge.	 Even with regard to the settling of a scheme  unders.  32 there is a safeguard under sub-s. (3) thereof,  whichsays that the trustee or any person interested in the  trustmay  within  three months of the publication of	 the  schememake  an  application  to the District	Judge  for  varying,modifying or setting aside the scheme.These and similar other safeguards clearly indicate Act, andwe are of the view that having regard to the position  of  atrustee as respects the trust property which he	  holds	 andthe  object or purpose of the Act,the  restrictions  imposedare  really for the purpose of carrying out the	 objects  ofthe  trust  and for better  administration,  protection	 andpreservation of the trust properties ; they are,  therefore,reasonable  restrictions  in the interests  of	the  generalpublic	within	the  meaning of el. (5) of Art.	 19  of	 theConstitution.  In577this respect, the impugned provisions of the Act differ fromthose	provisions  of	the  Madras  Hindu   Religious	 andCharitable  Endowments	Act,  1951,  and  the  Orissa  HinduReligious  Endowments Act, 1939, as amended by the  AmendingAct 11 of 1952, which came under consideration of this Courtin  The Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras  v.Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Shri Shirur Mutt (1)	 andMahant	Shri  Jagannath Ramanuj Das v. The State  of  Orissa(2),  and  were held to be invalid on the ground  that	theywere  not reasonable restrictions within the meaning of	 el.(5) of Art. 19 of the Constitution.The  third contention of the appellants rests upon Arts.  25and 26 of the Constitution.  The appellants have invoked  inaid  Art.  25  (1) which says inter alia,  that	 subject  topublic	order,	morality and health, all  persons  have	 theright  freely to profess, practice and	propagate  religion.Article	 26 is also relied on for the contention that  everyreligious  denomination or any section thereof has a,  right(a) to establish and maintain institutions for religious andcharitable  purposes  and (b) to manage its own	 affairs  inmatters of religion.  It is difficult to see how any of	 theprovisions  of	the Act can be said to	interfere  with	 theright guaranteed by Art. 25, viz., freedom of conscience andthe   right  freely  to	 profess,  practice  and   propagatereligion.   Learned counsel for the appellants has not	beenable to point out to us any particular provision of the	 Actwhich  interferes  with	 such a right.	 On  behalf  of	 theappellants it has been submitted that the power to alter  ormodify	the  bud  get relating to a religious trust  or	 thepower  to give directions to a trustee may be  exercised  bythe Board in such a way as to affect the due observance,  ofreligious practices in a math or temple so as to  constitutean  encroachment on the right guaranteed under Art. 25,	 andlearned	 counsel for the appellants had placed	reliance  onThe Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v.	 SriLakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt (1), for	 hissubmission that(I)  [1954] S.C.R. 1005.73(2) [1954] S.C.R. 1046.578freedom	 of religion in our Constitution is not confined  toreligious  beliefs only, but extends to religious  practicesas  well subject to the restrictions which the	Constitutionitself has laid down.  The answer to this submission is two-fold  : we have pointed out earlier that the power to  alterthe budget is subject to cl. (6) of s. 60 of the Act and theBoard  is nit authorised to alter or modify the budget in  amanner	or to an extent inconsistent with the wishes of	 thefounder	 or  with the provisions of the Act.  The  power  togive directions to the trustee is also subject to a  similarrestriction,  namely, the directions must be for the  properadministration	of the religious trust in'  accordance	withthe  law governing such trust and the wishes of the  founderin  so	far as such wishes can be ascertained  and  are	 notrepugnant  to  such law.  The keynote of  all  the  relevantprovisions  of the Act is the due observance of the  objectsof  the	 religious trust and not its  breach  or  violation.Secondly,  as  was  observed  in  The  Commissioner,   HinduReligious  Endowments,	Madras v. Shri	Lakshmindra  ThirthaSwamiar	  of  Shri  Shirur  Mutt(1),  at  p.  1030,   "	  anapprehension  that the powers conferred...... may be  abusedin  individual cases does not make the provision itself	 bador invalid in law ".With  regard to Art. 26, cls. (a) and (b), the	position  isthe same.  There is no provision of the Act which interfereswith the right of any religious denomination or any  sectionthereof to establish and maintain institutions for religiousand  charitable purposes; nor do the provisions of  the	 Actinterfere  with the right of any religious  denomination  orany section thereof to manage its own affairs in matters  ofreligion.  Learned counsel for the appellants has drawn	 ourattention  to  Sri  Venkataramana Devaru  v.  The  State  ofMysore,	 (2),  where following the earlier decision  in	 TheCommisssioner,	Hindu  Religious Endowments, Madras  v.	 SriLakshmindra  Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt (1), it	 wasobserved  that matters of religion included  even  practiceswhich  are  ,regarded;	by'-the community  as  part  of	 itsreligion.  Our attention has also been drawn(I) [1954] S.C.R. I005.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 895.579to Ratilal Panachand Gandhi v. The State of Bombay in  whichit  has been held that a religious sect or denomination	 hasthe  right to manage its own affairs in matters of  religionand  this includes the right to spend the trust property  orits  income  for  religion and for  religious  purposes	 andobjects indicated by the founder of the trust or establishedby  usage  obtaining in a particular  institution.   It	 wasfurther	 held therein that to divert the trust	property  orfunds  for  purposes which the charity commissioner  or	 thecourt considered expedient or proper, although the  originalobjects	 of the founder could still be carried out,  was  anunwarranted encroachment on the freedom of religious  insti-tutions	 in  regard  to the management	of  their  religiousaffairs.   We  do  not think that  the	aforesaid  decisionsafford	any  assistance to the	appellants.   Granting	thatmatters	 of  religion' include practices which	a  religiousdenomination  regards as part of its religion, none  of	 theprovisions of the Act interfere with such practices; nor  dothe provisions of the Act seek to divert the trust  propertyor  funds  for purposes other than those  indicated  by	 thefounder of the trust or those established by usage obtainingin   a	particular  institution.   On  the   contrary,	 theprovisions  of	the Act seek to implement the  purposes	 forwhich  the trust was created and prevent  mismanagement	 andwaste  by  the	trustee.  In other words,  the	Act  by	 itsseveral	 provisions seeks to fulfill rather than defeat	 thetrust.	 In  our  opinion,  there is  no  substance  in	 theargument that the provisions of the Act contravene Arts.  25and 26 of the Constitution.Lastly, the appellants have challenged the validity of s. 70of the Act,the relevant portion of which states:expenses incurred or to be incurred in the administration ofthis  Act,  the trustee of every religious trust  shall,  ineach  financial	 year,	pay  to	 the  Board  such  fee,	 notexceeding  five	 per centum of its net income  in  the	lastpreceding  financial  year, as the Board may, from  time  totime,  with the previous sanction of the  State	 Government,determine."(I)  [1954] S.C.R. 1055.580The argument is that s. 70 imposes an unauthorised tax.	 Thepoint is, we think, concluded by our decision in Mahant	 SriJagannath  Ramanuj Das v. The State of Orissa (1) where	 thedistinction between a tax and a fee for legislative purposesunder our Constitution was pointed out and with regard to anidentical  imposition  under  s.  49  of  the  Orissa  HinduReligious  Endowments  Act,  1939,  it	was  held  that	 thecontribution  levied  was  a  fee and not  a  tax.   It	 wasobserved there at p. 1054:" The collections made are not merged in the general  publicrevenue and are not appropriated in the manner laid down forappropriation  of expenses for other public purposes.	Theygo  to constitute the fund which is contemplated by  section50  of	the  Act...... We are further  of  opinion  that  animposition like this cannot be said to be hit by article  27of the Constitution.  What is forbidden by article 27 is thespecific appropriation of the proceeds of any tax in paymentof  expenses  for  the	promotion  or  maintenance  of	 anyparticular  religion or religious denomination.	 The  objectof the contribution under section 49 is not the fostering orpreservation  of the Hindu religion or of  any	denominationwithin	it; the purpose is to see that religious trusts	 andinstitutions wherever they exist are properly  administered.It   is	  the  secular	administration	of   the   religiousinstitutions  that the legislature seeks to control and	 theobject,	 as  enunciated in the Act, is to  ensure  that	 theendowments  attached  to  the  religious  institutions	 areproperly administered and their income is duly	appropriatedfor purposes for which they were founded or exist.  As thereis  no	question  of favouring any  particular	religion  orreligious  denomination,  article  27  could  not   possiblyapply."	 These	observations apply with equal force  to	 thepresent case.It  has	 also  been argued that s. 55 (2) of  the  Act	con-travenes  Art.	133 of the Constitution and  is	 accordinglyinvalid.  Section 55 is in these terms:55  (1).  "Unless otherwise provided in this Act, an  appealshall  lie to the High Court against every order  passed  bythe District Judge under this Act.(I)  [1954] S.C.R. 1046.581(2)  No	 appeal	 shall lie from any order passed  in  appealunder this section."We  do not think that s. 55 (2) of the Act overrides  or  isintended  to override Art. 133 or any other Article  of	 theConstitution relating to appeals to the Supreme Court.	Suchappeals must undoubtedly lie to the Supreme Court,  providedthe  necessary requirements for such appeals are  fulfilled.It  is,	 we think, obvious that the Act	 cannot	 affect	 thejurisdiction of the Supreme Court.We  now come to that part of the case of the  appellants  inwhich  they  claim  the	 properties  to	 be  their   privateproperties or, in the alternative, the trusts to be  privatetrusts.	 The High Court has pointed out that in M. J. C. 418of  1952  out of which has arisen Civil Appeal	No.  225  of1955, though there was an assertion that the properties werenot  trust  properties,	 there was  a  counter-affidavit  onbehalf of the State of Bihar that the asthal in question wasa  public  asthal and the  properties  appertaining  theretotrust properties within the meaning of the Act.	 In M. J. C.124 of 1953 out of which has arisen Civil Appeal No. 226  of1955 there was a similar claim that the mahant of the asthalwas the absolute owner of the properties belonging to themath.  In Suit No. 34 of 1952/106 of 1953 out of  which	 hasarisenCivil  Appeal  No.  228	 of 1955  there	 was  a	 prayer	 foradjournment  in	 order	to enable the  plaintiffs  (now	 ap-pellants before us) to file a petition to amend the  plaint,and  the purpose of the amendment sought to be made  was  toclaim  that the institutions in question were of  a  privatecharater  and  the  Act had no application  to	them.	Thisprayer	was disallowed by the-High Court on the ground	thatthe  amendment	sought	to be made  would  alter  the  wholecharacter of the suit.	In M. J C. 188 of 1953 out of  whichhas  arisen Civil Appeal No. 229 of 1955 the claim was	thatthere was no trust,. express or implied.  In M. J. C. 235 of1953  out of which has arisen Civil Appeal No. 248  of	1955there  was  a counter-affidavit on behalf of  the  State  ofBihar  that the temple in question was a public	 temple	 andthe  Act applied to it.	 In all these cases the	 High  Courthas582taken  the view, rightly in our opinion, that the  questionswhether	 the  trusts  are public or private  trusts  or	 theproperties  are	 private or trust properties  are  questionswhich	involve	 investigation	of  complicated	 facts	 andrecording  of evidence and such investigation could  not  bedone  on writ proceedings.  In the one suit which was  triedin the High Court the question did not arise as no amendmentwas  allowed.	Therefore,  in	these  cases  there  are  nomaterials  on  which the question as to the  nature  of	 thetrust  can be determined, though in Civil Appeal No. 343  of1955 (1) in which also judgment is being delivered today, wehave held that having regard to the preamble to the Act, theprovisions in s. 3 and the provisions of sub-s. (5) of s.  4the  definition clause of 'religious trust' in the Act	mustmean  public trusts express or constructive,  recognised  byHindu  law  to	be religious,  pious  or  charitable.	Thatfinding,  however, is of no assistance to the appellants  inthe  present cases.  The fate of these cases must depend  onthe sole question whether the Act is constitutionally  validor  not.   We  have held that the  Act	is  constitutionallyvalid.In  the	 result	 we hold that the appeals  are	without	 anymerit.	They are accordingly dismissed with costs.Appeals dismissed.(1)  mlahant  ]?am Saroop Dasji v. S.  P. Sahi, see  p.	 583Post-583