PETITIONER:MAHARAJA CHINTAMANI SARAN NATH SAH DEO	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BIHAR & ORISSADATE OF JUDGMENT:30/11/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  732		  1961 SCR  (2) 790 CITATOR INFO : R	    1965 SC1871	 (3)ACT:Income	Tax--Capital or Revenue receipt--Prospecting licencefor  bauxite--Licensee's  right to  appropriate	 samples  in--reasonable  quantities--Grant	 of right to  a	 Portion  ofcapital--Payments to licensor--Liability to tax.HEADNOTE:In 1945 the appellant who was a Zamindar granted licences todifferent  parties to prospect bauxite.	 Under	the  licencethe  licensee  had  the	 right to enter	 upon  the  land  toprospect,  dig and prove all bauxite lying in or within	 theland and to take away and appropriate samples of bauxite  inreasonable   quantities	 not  exceeding	 100  tons  in	 theaggregate.   In	 consideration	of  the	 premium  paid,	 thelicensees  could,  at their option, after  giving  necessarynotice	and on payment of a further sum, get a mining  leasefor a term of thirty years.  The income-tax authorities wereof the view that the licensees were not granted any interestin land and that the amounts received by the appellant	fromthe licensees were revenue receipts and, therefore,  assess-able to income-tax.Held, that on its true construction the transaction of	1945did  not amount merely to a grant of the use of the  capitalof  the	 licensor  but was really a grant of a	right  to  aportion	 of the capital.  Accordingly, the amounts  receivedby  the appellant were capital receipts and, therefore,	 notliable to income-tax.Raja  Bahadur  Kamakshya  Narain Singh of  Ramgarh  v.	Com-missioner  of Income-tax, Bihar and Orissa, (1943)  L.R.  70I.A.  180,The Member for the Board of  Agricultural  Income-tax,  Assam  v. Smt.  Sindurani Chaudhurani, [1957]  S	C.R.1019  and  Commissioner of Income-tax, Bihar and  Orissa  v.Raja  Bahadur Kamakshya Narain Singh, [1946] 14 I.T.R.	738,considered.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.424 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 25, 1955, of the Patna High Court in Misc.  JudicialCase No. 621 of 1953.N. C. Chatterjee and R. C. Prasad, for the appellant.K. N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.7911960.  November 30.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyKAPUR,	J.-This is an appeal by special leave'	against	 thejudgment and order of the High Court at Patna answering	 thequestion referred to it by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunalagainst	 the assessee who is the appellant before  us.	 Theappeal	relates to three assessments made on  the  appellantfor  the  respective assessment years 1945-46,	1946-47	 and1947-48.The   appellant	  is  a	 Zamindar  and	 owns	considerableproperties.  In the accounting years he granted licences  todifferent parties to prospect for Bauxite.  The	 particularsof the licences are:Received from	Date of the  Period of Assess-	 Amount		  Licence     Licence  ment year Received.						    Rs.1.AluminiumCorporationofIndia Ltd.  20-1-1945	   6 months    1945/46	   15,290/-.2.Indian AluminiumCo.Ltd.	       26-5-945	    1 year    1946/47	1,24,789/-.3.DayanandModi.	   7-5-1945    6 months	    1947/48	  1,500/-.4.Indian AluminiumCo.Ltd.	  14-8-1945    1 year	    1947/48	 70,146/-.The Income-tax Officer held that these amounts were receivedas  revenue payments and were therefore taxable.  On  appealto  the	 Appellate Assistant Commissioner the  amounts	were-held to be capital receipts but this order was set aside bythe Income-tax Appellate Tribunal which held the amounts  tobe revenue receipts and taxable as such.  At the instance ofthe appellant the case was referred to the High Court  unders.  66(1) of the Income-tax Act and the	 following  questionwas stated for the opinion of the Court:-"Whether  in the facts and circumstances of these cases	 thesums  of Rs. 15,209, Rs. 1,24,789, Rs. 1,500 and Rs.  70,146received by the assessee are income assessable to tax  underthe Indian Income-tax Act?"792The  question was answered in the affirmative and  the	HighCourt held that there was material to support	 the findingof  the	 Tribunal, and it was a finding of  fact;  that	 theamounts received by the appellant were revenue receipts	 andnot  capital receipts.	Against this judgment the  appellanthas come in appeal to this court by special leave.The question that falls for decision is whether the  amountsreceived by the assessee are capital or revenue receipts andfor  that purpose it is necessary to investigate the  natureof the grants made by the appellant.  Under the licence	 thelicensee  was  granted	the sole  and  exclusive  right	 andliberty to(a)  to enter into and upon, to prospect, search  for,	minequarry, bore, dig and prove all Bauxite lying and being	 in,under or within the said lands.(b)  For  the  purposes aforesaid  and	all  other  purposesincidental thereto dig, drive, make and maintain such  pits,shafts,	 borings,  inclines,  admits  levels,  drifts,	 aircourses drains, water courses, roads and ways and to set up,erect and construct such temporary engines, machinery  shedsand  things as may be reasonably necessary  for	 effectuallycarrying on the prospecting operations hereby licenced.(c)  To	 remove,  take	away  and  appropriate	samples	 andspecimens of Bauxite of every quality, kind and	 descriptionand in reasonable quantities not exceeding one hundred	tonsin all during the terms ofthis grant.(d)   For  the	purposes  aforesaid  to	 clear	 undergrowthbrushwood and to make use of any drains or water courses  onthe  lands or for clearing sites of working from  any  waterwhich may flow or accumulate thereon or therein.The  periods  of  the licences were  comparatively  short  6months in two cases and a year each in the other two.  Underthe  covenants the licensees were to cause as little  damageas  possible to the surface of the land.  They were to	givefull  information regarding the progress of  the  operationsand  true  copies  of  all borings  to	the  licensor.	 Thelicensees were also793required  to  plug  all holes made by  them.   The  licensorconvenanted  to give a reasonable right of  passage  throughand  over  the	adjoining  lands  and  properties     and inconsideration  of the premium paid, the licensees could,  attheir  option, after giving necessary notice and on  paymentof  a  further	sum, get a mining The lease for	 a  term  ofthirty	years  on the terms and conditions set	out  in	 theindenture  attached  as	 schedule 2  to	 the  licence.	 TheIncome-tax Appellate Tribunal found that the licensees	werenot  granted any interest in land and the  amounts  receivedwere  revenue receipts and therefore, assessable to  income-taxA reference to some of the cases would assist in determiningthe  nature  of the transaction which was evidenced  by	 thedocuments  placed on the record.  In Raja Bahadur  KamakshyaNarain Singh of Ramgarh v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bihar& Orissa (1) the payments by way of premium were held to  becapital	 receipts.   In that case large payments by  way  ofroyalty for granting various mining leases were received  bythe assessee.  The leases were for a period of 999 years formining	 coal  with  liberty  to  search  for,	work,	makemerchantable  and carry away the coal there found  and	withpower  to  dig	and sink pits.	In  consideration  of  theserights the lessees paid a sum by way of salami (premium) andan  annual  sum	 as royalty on the  amount  of	coal  raisedsubject to minimum annual royalty.  The lessor had the rightto  reenter in case of failure to pay the royalty.   It	 wascontended  by the assessee there that the sums	received  assalami	and royalty were capital receipts  representing	 theprice of the minerals removed.	It was held that salami	 wasa  single payment paid for the acquisition of the  right  toenjoy  the benefits granted by the lease and was  a  capitalasset  and that the two other forms of royalty-both  minimumand per ton-flowing from the covenants in the lease were noton  capital  account and fell within the  meaning  of  otherincome under s.12 of the Act.  Lord Wright said at p. 190:-"The salami, has been, rightly in their Lordships'  opinion,treated as a capital receipt.  It is a single(1)  (1943), L.R. 70 I.A. 186.794payment made for the acquisition of the right of the lesseesto enjoy the benefits granted to them by the	lease.	Thatgeneral	 right may properly be regarded as a capital  asset,and the money paid to purchase it may properly be held to bea  payment  on capital account. But the royalties are  on  adifferent footing."This case was sought to be distinguished by counsel for	 therespondent  on	the  ground that the lease was	for  a	longperiod	of 999 years but the observations above quoted	werenot  based  on this consideration but on the nature  of	 theright  which was conveyed.  In Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Bihar & Orissa v. Raja Bahadur Kamakshya Narain Singh (1)  acoal  company  had  been  given by  the	 Court	of  Wards  aprospecting licence in respect of certain coal bearing landswith  the option of renewal and also to take a mining  leaseon  certain terms and conditions.  The	prospecting  licencewas  subsequently  extended  on four  occasions.   When	 theassessee attained majority he claimed that the giving of thelicence	 was ultra vires the Court of Wards but there was  asettlement  between the licencee and the assessee  by  whichthe   latter  agreed  to  accept  the  various	 prospectinglicences,  their extensions and leases in  consideration  ofwhich he received by way of salami Rs. 5,25,000 and  capitallump  sum of Rs. 40,000 and some other payments in  lieu  ofcesses.	 The question arose whether the amounts were capitalor  revenue and it was held that the amount of Rs.  5,25,000received  as salami and the amounts received as cesses	werecapital receipts and therefore not taxable.  Manohar Lal, A.C.  J.,	 held  that  the  amount  was  received	 by  way  ofsettlement and not by way of salami but S. K. Das, J. (as hethen was) held that salami was a lump sum payment for rightswhich were being given to the licensee, namely, the right toprospect for a certain number of years and also the right toget  mining  leases  and therefore salami  in  question	 wasundoubtedly a capital receipt.In  The Province of Bihar v. Maharaja Pratap Udai Nath	SahiDeo  of Ratugarh (2) it was contended that payments  in	 thenature of premium or salami were(1) [1946) 14 I.T.R. 738.(2) [1941] 9 I.T.R. 313.795not  part of the income of the assessee and  were  thereforenot  taxable  and it was held that salami  may,	 in  certaincases,	be regarded as a payment of rent in advance  and  itwould  in  those cases be regarded as income  but  where  itcould  not  be	so  regarded it	 would	not  be	 income	 andtherefore  not taxable.	 It was also  held that	 prima faciesalami is not income.In  The	 Member for the Board of  Agricultural	Income	Tax,Assam v. Smt.  Sindurani Chaudhurani (1) this Court  definedas salami as follows:The  indicia  of  salami are (1)  its  single  non-recurringcharacter  and	(2)  payment prior to the  creation  of	 thetenancy.   It  is the consideration paid by the	 tenant	 forbeing  let  into  possession and can  be  neither  rent	 norrevenue	 but  is  a  capital receipt in	 the  hands  of	 thelandlord.Thus  if  it is a consideration paid by the  tenant  or	 thelicensee  for being let into possession with the  object  ofobtaining  a tenancy or as in this case with the  object  ofobtaining  a right to remove minerals, it cannot  be  termedrent  or revenue but is a capital receipt.   In	 Sindurani'scase (1) salami was a lump sum payment as consideration	 forwhat  the  landlord was transferring to	 the  tenant,  i.e.,parting	 with his right, under the lease, of a holding.	  Inthe instant case the terms of the covenant quoted above showthat  the  payment  has a close analogy to  the	 payment  inSindhurani's   case(1).	   That	 case  was  sought   to	  bedistinguished by the respondent on the ground that there wasa  transfer of a tenancy which was capable of ripening	intoan  occupancy holding but that was not the ground  on  whichthis  court decided the case of salami.	 The  definition  ofsalami was agener alone, in that it was a consideration paidby a tenant for being let into possession for the purpose ofcreating  a new tenancy.  In Raja Bahadur  Kamakshya  NarainSingh's case (2) also the Privy Council laid the  definitionof salami in general terms and described the characteristicsof  a payment by way of salami without any reference to	 thenature of the lease.In  reply to the argument of counsel for the appellant,	 Mr.Rajagopal Sastri for the respondent argued(1) [1957] S.C.R. 1019.(2) (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 180.796that  the question was whether the licensor had allowed	 thelicensee  to take his capital or he had allowed	 him to	 usethe capital.  If it was the former, the receipts were in thenature	of capital receipts and if latter they were  in	 thenature	of revenue.  His contention was that it	 wag  reallythe  latter because all that the licensee was allowed to  dowas  to	 enter	on  the lands and make	use  of	 the  assetsbelonging to the appellant.  This, in our opinion, is not  acorrect approach to the question.  What the licence gave  tothe  licensee was the right to enter upon the land to  pros-pect,  search  and  mine quarry, bore,	dig  and  prove	 allBauxite lying in or within the land and for that purpose thelicensee  had the right to dig pits, shafts, borings and  toremove,	 take away and appropriate samples and specimens  ofBauxite	 in reasonable quantities not exceeding 100 tons  inthe  aggregate.	 It cannot be said that this amounts  merelyto a grant of the use of the capital of the licensor but  itwas really a grant of a right to a portion of the capital inthe shape of a general right to the capital asset.In  support of this distinction between the use	 of  capitaland  the  taking away of capital, counsel  relied  upon	 thefollowing  observation	of  Lawrence,  J.,  in	 Greyhound'scase(3):"The  question as to what receipts are revenue and what	 arecapital has given rise to much difference of opinion; but itis  clear,  in my opinion, that, if the sum in	question  isreceived for what is in truth the user of capital assets andnot  for  their realisation, it is a  revenue  receipt,	 notcapital."That  may  be so but the question has to be decided  on	 thenature	of  the	 grant.	 The terms of the  covenant  in	 thepresent	 case  which have been quoted above  show  that	 thetransaction was not one merely of the user of capital assetsbut  of	 their	realisation,  By  this	test  therefore	 thereceipts  were on capital account and not revenue.   Counselthen referred to a judgment of the Patna High Court in R. B.H. P. Bannerji v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bihar & Orissa(2)  where  it was held that compensation  received  by	 theassessee(1) (1936) 20 T.C 373.(2) [1951] 19 I.T.R. 596.797for use by the military of his lands for a short period	 wasa  revenue receipt.  In that case the assessee purchased  13bighas	of land for purposes of setting up a  market.	Thatplot  was requisitioned by the military A authorities  underthe  Defence  of  India	 Rules	and  the  assessee  receivedcompensation for the use of the The land.  It was held to bea revenue receipt because it was really profit derived	fromthe land for the use of a capital asset.Another	 case upon which counsel for the  respondent  placedreliance  is Smethurst v. Davy (1).  That was a	 case  whichwas decided on the wording of s. 31(1)(d) of the Finance Actof 1948, and therefore is not of much assistance.Reference was also made to Stow Bardolph Gravel Co., Ltd. v.Poole  (2).   There the assessee company, which	 carried  onbusiness  in  sand  and	 gravel,  purchased  two  un  workeddeposits.   The company contended that the payments made  toacquire the deposits were deductible being expenditure whichwas  incurred  in  the	acquisition  of	 trading  stock	  orotherwise  of  revenue	character.  It	was  held  that	 thecompany had acquired a capital asset and not stock-in-trade.The case turned upon a finding by the Special  Commissionersand  is	 not  helpful.	Reliance was also  placed  on  RajahNanyam Meenakshamma v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Hyderabad(3).  In that case certain fixed sums of money were paid  asroyalty for the whole period of the lease which were held tobe revenue receipts as consolidated advance payments of	 theamount which would otherwise have been payable periodically.None of these cases is of any assistance to the respondent'scase.  The question which has to be decided is what was	 thenature	of  the transaction.  The covenants in	the  licenceshow  that the licensee had a right to enter upon  the	landand  take  away and appropriate samples of  all	 Bauxite  ofevery kind up to 100 tons and therefore there was a transferof the right the consideration for which would be a  capitalpayment.(1) [1957] 37 T.C. 593.	      (2) (1954) 35 T.C. 459.(3) [1956] 30 I.T.R. 286.101798In our opinion the High Court was in error and the  questionreferred   should  have	 been  decided	in  favour  of	 theappellant.   We	 therefore allow the appeal, set  aside	 thejudgment and order of the High Court and answer the questionin favour of the appellant who	will have his costs  in thisCourt and the High Court.Appeal allowed.