PETITIONER:THE LORD KRISHNA SUGAR MILLS LTD.,AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:06/05/1959BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.SUBBARAO, K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1124		  1960 SCR  (1) 226 CITATOR INFO : R	    1965 SC1503	 (7) F	    1978 SC 771	 (15) E&D	    1985 SC1737	 (16)ACT:Constitution-Fundamental   Rights-Restrictions	  on-Reason-ableness,  relevant  considerations  for   judging-Enactmentobliging  sugar manufacturers to supply sugar for export  atloss-Notification  under another enactment increasing  priceof sugar for internal sale for recouping loss-Whether can betaken	into   consideration--Discrimination-Sugar    ExportPromotion  Act,	 1958 (30 of 1958), ss. 5, 6, 7, 8,  and  9-Constitution of India, Arts. 14 and 19 Essential CommoditiesAct,  1955 (10 of 1955), s. 3--Sugar (Control) Order,  1955,cl. 5.HEADNOTE:The  petitioners  challenged the  constitutionality  of	 theSugar  Export Promotion Act, 958, which was enacted for	 thepurpose	 of exporting sugar with a view to  earning  foreignexchange.    The   impugned  Act   imposed   the   followingrestrictions on the owners of40factories producing sugar by the vacuum pan process: (i)  itobliged	 them to deliver to the export agency  specified  bythe Central Government the quota of sugar allocated to them;(ii)  it made them suffer a loss on this delivery of  sugar;and (iii) it exposed them to a penalty in case the  deliverywas short of the quota.	 By a notification issued under	 theSugar  (Control)  Order,  1955, which  was  made  under	 theEssential  Commodities	Act, 1955,  the	 Central  Governmentincreased  the price of sugar for internal sales by  50	 nP.per  maund to enable the owners to recoup the loss  sufferedby  them  by  the delivery of the  sugar  for  export.	 Thepetitioners  contended that it was not permissible  to	takethe   notification   issued  under  another   statute	intoconsideration  and that the impugned Act offended  Arts.  14and 19(1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution.Held,  per Sinha, Imam, Kapur, Subba Rao  and  Hidayatullah,jj., Sarkar, J. dissenting) that the impugned Act wasconstitutionally valid.Per   Sinha,   Imam,  Kapur  and  Hidayatullah,	  jj.	 Therestrictions  placed by the Act upon the fundamental  rightsof  the	 petitioners under Arts. 19(1)(f) and (g)  were	 notunreasonable  as  arrangements were made to save  them	fromloss  by increasing the price of sugar for  internal  sales,thus  passing  on the loss to the consumers in	India.	 Thereasonableness of the restriction and not of the law was  tobe determined, and if the restriction was under one law	 butcountervailing advantages were created by another law passedas  part of the same legislative plan, the Court  must	takethat  other  law into account.	The  reasonableness  of	 therestriction  was to be judged at the time it was  challengedand in the context Of the circumstances then existing.	 Thenotification of the Central Government increasing the  priceof sugar to enable the recoupment of the loss occasioned  bythe export could be taken into consideration in judging	 thereasonableness of the restrictions.State of Madras v. V. G. Row [1952] S.C.R. 597; Virendra  v.The  State of Punjab, [1958] S.C.R. 308 ; Arunachalam  Nadarv.  State of Madras, 1959 S.C.J. 297 ; Attorney-General	 forAlberta	 v. Attorney-General for Canada, (1939) A. C. 117  ;Ladore v. Bennet, (1939) A.C. 468 and Pillai v.	 Mudanayake,(1953) A. C. 514, relied on.The   foreign  export  served  the  national   interest	  bystabilising the sugar market and stabilised national economyby  earning foreign exchange.  The loss, if any, was  spreadover many factories and was so small as not to amount to  anunreasonable restriction.The  Act  did  not offend Art. 14  Of  the  Constitution  inselecting  sugar  produced  by the vacuum  pan	process	 forexport	and in leaving out sugar produced by  other  methodsand  other  commodities from the mischief of the  Act.	 TheGovernment  was the best judge as to which commodities	weremost likely to earn41foreign exchange and the selection made was justifiable as areasonable classification which was related to the object ofthe Act of earning foreign exchangerPer  Subba  Rao,  J. In testing the  reasonableness  of	 therestrictions  imposed  by  the	impugned  Act  it  was	 notpermissible  to	 take into  consideration  the	notificationunder the Sugar (Control) Order, 1955, increasing the  priceof  Sugar for internal sales by 50 nP. per maund.  The	testof  reasonableness of one Act could be made to	depend	uponthe  impact of another Act on it only when the	earlier	 Actwas  made part of later Act or when both Acts were parts  ofthe  same  legislative scheme or plan.	To  go	beyond	thiswould  be  to destroy the stability of	legislation  and  tointroduce an uncertain element.	 To go further and to dependupon  a notification of a transitory nature issued under  anunconnected  Act  would be to place the statute in  a  fluidstate.	 The impugned Act and the Essential Commodities	 Actwere enacted for different purposes.State  of Madras v. V. G. Row [1952] S.C.R.  597;  Attorney-Geneyal for Alberta v. Attorney-Geneyal for Canada (1939) A.C.  117	 ; Ladore v. Bennet (1939) A. C. 468 and  Pillai  v.Mudanayake, (1953) A. C. 514, distinguished.The  restrictions  imposed  by the  impugned  Act  were	 notunreasonable  as  the Act served the  national	interest  byearning	 foreign  exchange  for the State  and	building  upforeign	 markets  for  the future prosperity  of  the  sugarindustry.Per  Sarkar, J. The impugned Act which made the	 petitionerssuffer a loss on the sale of a part of their produce imposedunreasonable  restrictions  on their  fundamental  right  tocarry on their business and was invalid.  Though in decidingthe  reasonableness  of	 the  restrictions  imposed  by	 theimpugned Act all the prevailing conditions and circumstanceshad  to be considered, the notification increasing the	homeprice  of sugar could not be taken into consideration.	 Theimpugned  Act neither made it obligatory on,  nor  empoweredthe  Government to take any steps to recoup the loss  causedto  the	 petitioners.  The increase in	the  price  dependedsolely on the arbitrary discretion or generosity or sense offair play of the Government.  It would be intolerable in anylegal  system  that  a	statute should	be  legal  when	 theGovernment chose to do a thing and illegal when it undid  itand so on from time to time at the choice of the Government.Besides, there was nothing in the Essential Commodities	 Actor the Sugar (Control) Order which authorised the Governmentto  increase  the  price for the sake of  recouping  to	 themanufacturers  the loss caused to them by the impugned	Act,and  the  validity of the notification increasing  the	homeprice of sugar was doubtful.State	of  Madras  v.	V.  G.	Row  [1952]  S.C.  R.	597,distinguished.The  impugned Act caused loss to the petitioners  which	 wasnot negligible and thus imposed unreasonable restrictions on642their  right to carry on their business.   The	restrictionscould  not be justified on the ground that they resulted  instablising  the	 sugar	industry as the	 industry  (lid	 notrequire	 any stabilisation.  The export was not to be	madeout  of the excess of production over  internal	 consumptionand  in fact production in India had always been  less	thaninternal consumption.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAl, JUTRISDICTION : Petitions Nos. 9 and 14,of 1959.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental Rights.A.V.  Viswanatha  Sastri,  and	G.  C.	Mathur,	 for  thepetitioners in Petition No. 9 of 1959.M.  C. Setalvad, Attorney-General of India, B. Sen and R. H.Dhebar, for respondent No. 1 in both the petitions.M.C.  Setalvad, Attorney-General of India, B. Sen and  B.P.  Maheshwari,	 for respondent No. 2 in Petition No.  9  of1959.N.C.  Chatterjee and G. C. Mathur for the petitioners  inPetition No. 14 of 1959.B.Sen  and  B.	P. Maheshwari, for respondent  No.  2  inPetition No. 14 of 1959.1959.  May 6. The judgment of B. P. Sinha, Jafar Imam, T. L.Kapur  and  M.	Hidayatullah,  JJ.,  was  delivered  by	  M.Hidayatullah,  J.  A. K. Sarkar, J., and K. Subba  Rao,	 J.,delivered separate judgments.HIDAYATULLAH  J.-Writ Petition No. 9 of 1959 has been  filedby  the Lord Krishna Sugar Mills, Ltd., Saharanpur and	ShriSushil	Kumar, a Director of the said Mills.  It  was  heardalong  with  Writ Petition No. 14 of 1959,  which  has	beenfiled  by  Shiva  Prasad  Banarsidas  Sugar  Mills,  Bijnor,through	 Seth  Munnalal	 and also by him in  his  own  name.These  Mills  are hereinafter referred to as the  L.  K.  S.Mills and S. P. B. Mills, respectively.	 The petitions raisethe  same contentions, but in Writ Petition No. 14 of  1959,there  is  one more circumstance, which	 will  be  mentionedlater.	 The  petitions are directed against  the  Union  ofIndia and the Indian Sugar Mills Association (Export  AgencyDivision) Calcutta.  The petitioners challenge inter alia43the  constitutionality	of the Sugar Export  Promotion	Act,1958  (30 of 1958), which shall hereafter be referred to  asthe Act.  They question also the legality of certain  orderspassed	by the second respondent purporting to be under	 theAct.Before describing how this matter came before the Court,  itis  convenient to give the scheme of the Act and to set	 outsome  of  its provisions.  On June 27, 1958,  the  Presidentpromulgated  the  Sugar Export	Promotion  Ordinance,  1958,which was repealed by and reenacted as the Act on  September16,  1958. The Ordinance was in the same terms as  the	Act,and   it  is  not  necessary  to  refer	 to  the   Ordinanceseparately.  more  so  because by s. 14	 of  the  Act  whichrepealed  the Ordinance, anything done or any  action  takenunder  the  Ordinance is deemed to have been done  or  takenunder  the  Act,  and  the Act	itself	is  deemed  to	havecommenced on the 27th (lay of June, 1958.Both  the Ordinance and the Act were passed to	provide	 forthe export of sugar in the public interest and for the	levyand  collection	 in certain circumstances of  an  additionalduty of excise on sugar produced in India.  To achieve	thisobjective, the Act authorises the Central Government (as didthe  Ordinance	previously) to specify an export  agency  to'perform the functions mentioned in the Act, and the CentralGovernment by a notification issued the same day,  specifiedthe Indian Sugar Mills Association (Export Agency  Division)Calcutta, as the export agency.The  Act  next provides that the Central Government  may  bynotification  in the Official Gazette, fix the	quantity  ofsugar	to  be	exported  during  any  period  taking	intoconsideration :(a)  the quantity of sugar available in the country;(b)  the  quantity of sugar required for consumption in	 thecountry; and(c)the necessity of exporting sugar with a view to earningforeignexchange in the public interest,but, so as not to exceed 20 per cent. of the quantity to  beproduced  in  India in the season ending with the  month  ofOctober falling within that year.  The Central44Government fixed 50,000 tons as the quantity to be  exportedup  to	]December 31, 1958, later extended  to	January	 31,1959.  This notification was also issued on June 27, 1958.Section	 5  of	the Act enables the  Central  Government  toapportion, by order in writing, the quantity to be  exportedamong  " owners " of factories, the word " factory  "  beingconfined to a factory where sugar is produced by the  vacuumpan  process.	The  term " owner " is	defined	 to  includetransferees,  and  agents  and	managers  under	  Industries(Development  and Regulation) Act, 1951.  The  apportionmentof  the	 quantity  of  sugar to be  exported  is  to  be  inproportion to the quantity of sugar produced or likely to beproduced  by  the  owners  during  the	season	referred  toearlier.  On the communication of the order to an owner, thequantity so apportioned is deemed to be the export quota forthe factory of that owner.Section 6 then provides that on demand by the export agency,every  owner  shall deliver to it from time to	time,  sugarproduced in his factory in such quantities (not exceeding inthe  aggregate	his export quota fixed for  the	 factory  orgroup  of factories, as the case may be), of such grade,  insuch manner,' within such time and at such place, as may  bespecified by the export agency in this behalf.	If the sugaris  delivered by an owner in accordance with the  provisionsof  this section, he retains no rights in such sugar  excepthis  rights  to receive payment therefor under s. 9  of	 theAct.Section	 7  provides for levy of additional excise  duty  onsugar dispatched from the factory for consumption in  India,if the owner of a factory does not fulfil the demands  unders. 6. It provides:" (1) Where sugar delivered by any owner falls short of	 theexport	quota  fixed  for it by	 any  quantity	(hereinafterreferred to as the said quantity), there shall be levied andcollected  on  so  much of the	sugar  dispatched  from	 thefactory	 for  consumption in India as is equal to  the	saidquantity,  a duty of excise at the rate of seventeen  rupeesper maund.45(2)The duty of excise referred to in sub-section (1) shallbe  in	addition to the duty of excise chargeable  on  sugarunder  any other law for the time being in force, and  shallbe  paid by the owner to such authority as may be  specifiedin the notice demanding the payment of duty and within	suchperiod not exceeding ninety days as may be specified in suchnotice.(3)If any such owner does not pay the whole or any part ofthe  duty  payable by him within the period referred  to  insub-section  (2),  he shall be liable to pay in	 respect  ofevery period of thirty days or part thereof during which thedefault	 continues  a penalty which may extend	to  ten	 percent. of the duty outstanding from time to time, the penaltybeing adjudged in the same manner as the penalty to which  aperson	is  liable under the rules made	 under	the  CentralExcises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), is adjudged."By sub-s. (4) of this section, the provisions of the CentralExcises and Salt Act, 1944 and the rules made thereunder aremade  applicable as far as may be, including those  relatingto refunds and exemptions from duty in relation to the	dutymentioned in this section or any other sum due as a penalty.Section 8 then deals with the export by the export agency ofsugar delivered to it.	The section also authorises the saleof such sugar within India under certain circumstances.	 Thesection	 may be reproduced in full here, as its	 terms	willform the subject of consideration in the sequel.8(1)  " The export agency shall take all practical  measuresto export sugar delivered to it under this Act:Provided  that,	 if  the export agency is  of  opinion	thathaving regard to the quality of the sugar delivered to it byany  owner, or to the expenses involved in transporting	 thesugar  from one place to another, or to the delay likely  tobe involved in exporting it, or to the conditions prevailingin the markets for sugar, whether in or out of India, or  toany  other relevant circumstance, it is expedient so to	 do,the  export  agency may sell the whole or any  part  of	 thesugar in India46and  may, if it thinks fit, purchase such quantity of  sugaras  it may consider necessary for export at the	 appropriatetime.(2)For the purposes of sub-section (1), the export  agencymay itself sell sugar or permit the owner to sell the  wholeor  any part of the export quota in his custody at  a  priceapproved  by  it  on condition that  the  sale-proceeds	 arepayable to it."Section	 9 deals with payments to owners who have  deliveredsugar for export.  It provides as follows:(1),The	 export	 agency shall, at such time as	it  thinksfit, make to the owners who have delivered sugar to it underthis  Act,  payments  determined  in  accordance  with	 theprovisions hereinafter in this section contained.(2)From the total sale-proceeds in respect of the quantityfixed  for export under section 4 for any year, there  shallbe  deducted  the total expenditure incurred by	 the  exportagency	 in  respect  of  the  sugar,  whether	by  way	  ofadministrative expenses or otherwise, and the balance  shallbe  apportioned	 among	the  owners  in	 proportion  to	 thequantity  of  sugar delivered by them  respectively  (hiringthat year.(3)In  making  any distribution under  this  section,  theexport	agency	shall  make  such  adjustments	as  may	  benecessary  having regard to the grade of sugar delivered  byany owner, the adjustments being made on the basis of  sugarof   ISS-E-29  grade  and  with	 reference  to	 the   pricedifferential  schedule for different grades of	sugar  whichthe Central Government may, by notification in the  OfficialGazette, publish in this behalf.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section  andsubject	 to the rules which may be made in this behalf,	 theexport agency may make on account payments to owners againstdocuments  of delivery of sugar furnished by them, and	suchpayments shall be adjusted at the time of final payment."In  the	 remaining  five  sections,  the  Act  provides	 forancillary matters, the last (s. 14) incorporating the repealof the Ordinance and savings.  Section 1047reserves  to  the  Central  Government	the  power  to	givedirections  to	the  export agency, and	 s.  11	 allows	 theCentral	 Government  to delegate, subject to  conditions  ifany, its functions under the Act to an officer or  authorityspecified  by notification.  It may be pointed out that	 theChief Director, Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati, Ministryof  Food  and  Agriculture,  was  specified  as	 such  in  anotification  issued on June 27, 1958.	Section 12  providesfor  protection	 of authorities, and s. 13  confers  on	 theCentral	 Government the power to, make rules and includes  apower  to  make a breach of any rule an	 offence  punishablewith fine extending to five thousand rupees.  All such rulesmust  be  laid	before Parliament, and may  be	modified  byParliament.  No rules, however, have been made.We  next  proceed to the facts of these two  cases.   By  anorder  No.  6(53)/58-SC,  dated June  27,  1958,  the  ChiefDirector,  Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati, fixed  461-05and  412-04 tons of sugar as the quantities  apportioned  tothe L. K. S. Mills and the S. P. B. Mills respectively.	  OnJuly  17,  1958 the export agency wrote to  the	 two  ownersinforming them of the quotas and their equivalents in  bags,intimating  also that the supply would be required in  GradeC-29, and/or Grade D-29 and/or Grade E-29.  Inquiry was madeas to the grades and quantities in stock with them.  It	 wasalso  stated in these letters that a  further  communicationwould  be  sent	 in due	 course	 giving	 detailed  despatch/delivery/disposal  instructions for the export quota.	Theywere  also informed that the' Central Board of	Revenue	 hadissued	detailed instructions to the Collectors	 of  CentralExcise,	 and that it had been agreed that the order  of	 theChief Director (Sugar) served on the owners with copy to theCentral	 Excise Officer of the factory concerned would	alsobe the release order from the Sugar Directorate.Different replies were sent by the two petitioners.  The  L.K. S. Mills replied that they had only sugar of D-28  grade,while  the  S. P. B. Mills replied that they had  E-29.	  OnAugust	24, 1958, the export agency wrote to them  that	 theexport quota was diverted for internal sale.  They were toldthat they were permitted to48sell  the  " quota sugar " for internal consumption  at	 theprice  of  Rs. 36, per maund for Grade D-29,  fixed  by	 theGovernment.  The export agency asked the two Mills to let itknow  by  telegram the grade in which the export  quota	 wasavailable, so that documents could be sent to enable them todeliver sugar to their respective buyers.  The export agencydescribed the documents as follows:"(1) A delivery order authorising the Central Excise Officerof your factory to deliver the quantity sold.(2)This	 delivery  order will be sent through  the  PunjabNational Bank Ltd., attached to a demand draft drawn on	 youfor  the amount of the sale proceeds payable to us.   Pleasepay this on presentation.(3)The	sale proceeds payable to us will be calculated	asin the following examples:-						    Rs.Sale price at Rs. 36 per maundD-29						   ...Less Excise Duty to be paid by you		   ...						 -------Less ' on account' payment of Rs. 10 per maund	  .....Amount for which draft will be drawn on you	   ...After  receiving the delivery order you will pay the  Exciseduty and deliver the sugar to the buyer." Grade differentials will be allowed as per the  GovernmentNotification GSR. 661 d/30th July fixing ex-factory prices.The  sale transaction will be as between you and your  buyerand the Export Agency cannot take any responsibility.We  now	 await	to hear by  telegram  the  grade  available.Please	also  say in your telegram to which  branch  of	 thePunjab National Bank we should send the documents."			     49The  facts  from here progress differently  with  these	 twopetitioners,  and  they are stated separately.	 The  L.K.S.Mills  informed	 the export agency their inability  to	sellsugar at the controlled rate fixed by the Government by	 itsnotification of July 30, 1958, as the market was very  weak,and there were no purchasers of sugar at the controlled rateeven  out  of the releases made by the Government  for	freesales.	The export agency reminded the L.K.S. Mills that theindustry had agreed to finance the Export Agency Division byletting	 it  have the sale-proceeds of	sugar  diverted	 forinternal  sale	less Rs. 10 per maund as an " on  account  "payment.  The export agency offered to show a concession  tothe   L.K.S.  Mills,  and  asked  them	to  sell  sugar	  ininstalments  of	 1,500, 1,500 and 1,565 bags with  a  week'sinterval  between  each.  It asked the L.K.S. Mills  to	 co-operate	 and let the export agency send documents for  1,500bags at Rs. 35-69 nP. per maund ex-factory.  It appears thata  mistake  was	 made in putting down 1,000  bags,  but	 themeaning	 was  perfectly plain.	The L.K.S.  Mills,  however,insisted  that	they  were  unable  to	sell  sugar  at	 thecontrolled  rate,  and	that  as  they	were  in   financialdifficulties, it was not possible to honour the documents assuggested by the export agency.The L. K. S. Mills proving obdurate, the export agency wroteon November 5, 1958, that it proposed to send documents	 forthe  full quota of 4,565 bags at Rs. 35-69 per	maund.	 TheL.K.S.	 Mills	were  requested	 to  retire  the   documentsimmediately,  as funds were needed urgently for purchase  ofadditional  quantities	for  export  to	 replace  the  quotadiverted  for  internal sale.  It enquired the name  of	 thebankers	 to whom the documents might be sent by the  agency.The  L.K.S. Mills, it appears, did not agree to any  of	 thecourses	 suggested, and the export agency wrote on  November27,1958, that the L.K.S. Mills were requested to remit a sumof  Rs. 1,88,216-63 nP. being the amount calculated  at	 therate  of  Rs. 35-69 nP. per maund in respect  of  the  totalsugar quota, less excise duty to be paid by the L.K.S. Millsand  less  "on	account"  payment of Rs.  10  per  maund  asindicated in the earlier letters,50It  also stated that unless the remittance was	received  byDecember 5, 1958, the permission to sell the quota sugar forinternal consumption would be Withdrawn.  Subsequent to thistoo,  the export agency wrote to the L. K. S.  Mills  sayingthat a demand draft for Rs. 61,845-57 nP. was being sent, towhich  was  attached  the delivery order  addressed  to	 theCentral	 Excise	 Officer of the factory	 for  releasing	 thefirst  installment  of 1,500 bags.  The	 L.K.S.	 Mills	wereasked to pay the excise duty and to clear the bags from bondand  to	 intimate  to  the agency that	they  had  done	 so.Similar	 documents were prepared for the  other	 instalmentsand forwarded through the Bank.	 The L.K.S. Mills,  however,did  not agree to this, and the export agency thereafter  onDecember  18, 1958, sent a telegram that unless	 the  draftswere  retired  immediately, the quota sugar should  be	keptready  for dispatch so that delivery might be taken  by	 theexport	agency.	 The export agency also informed the  L.K.S.Mills  that  otherwise	the  name  of  the  Mills  would  becommunicated  to the Chief Director, Sugar, as a  defaulter.The  export  agency also sent an order for delivery  of	 thequota sugar, and required the L.K.S. Mills to despatch it bygoods train, freight to pay, consigned to the export agency.It  also intimated that the Mills should draw on the  exportagency for the amount of excise duty paid by the Mills	plus"on account" payment at Rs. 10 per maund.  Much was made  ofthe error in describing the quota as of D-29, but in view ofwhat  had  already been understood, it cannot  be  suggestedthat the L.K.S. Mills were in any way misled.The L.K.S. Mills informed the export agency that their	bankposition  did  not  allow them to  honour  the	drafts,	 nordespatch  the  desired	quantity  of  sugar  at	 the   ratesmentioned  by the agency.  They also stated that  they	werenot able to despatch more than 500 bags, as wagons over	 theEastern	 Railway were limited.	The export agency,  however,did   not  agree.   Finally,  the  export  agency   demandedremittance  of	the sum of Rs. 1,88,216-63 nP. by  the	25thJanuary,  and gave the alternative to the L. K. S. Mills  todespatch the sugar by that date according to the51despatch  instructions	communicated  earlier.	 The  L.K.S.Mills  wired saying that the Banks were	 demanding  interestand  that  the agency should instruct the  Banks  to  foregointerest.   The export agency on January 29, 1959, wired  asfollows:"Your  tel.  twentyninth  without  prejudice  and  to  avoidserious	 complications we instructing bank  waive  interest.Regarding  interest Committee will consider  whose  decisionwill be communicated in due course." The petition (No. 9  of1959)  was, however, filed on January 27, 1959, that  is  tosay, two days earlier.The facts relating to the S.P.B. Mills are as follows: Afterthe  letter of August 24, 1958 was sent, nothing appears  tohave been heard by the export agency.  On November 27, 1958,the export agency asked the S. P. B. Mills to remit to it byDecember  15,  1959, Rs. 1,69,524. 77 nP. being	 the  amountcalculated  in	the same way as for the	 L.K.S.	 Mills.	  OnDecember 14, 1958, in continuation of this letter a despatchorder for the entire quota was sent in the same terms as  inthe other case.	 In reply, the S.P.B. Mills pointed out thatthey  were working the Mills as short-term  lessees,  havingobtained  the  lease  from the High Court  of  Allahabad  onpayment	 of Rs. 6,10,000 as lease money and Rs. 1,00,000  assecurity on August 6, 1956.  They also pointed out that theywere required to purchase additional machinery, stores etc.,for a sum of Rs. 5 lakhs, and that a sum of Rs. 3,43,500 wasspent  in  connection with the repairs to  the	factory	 andwages  for  the	 period during which  the  factory  was	 re-started.  They further pointed out that they had suffered  aloss of Rs. 2,40,000 in the last season and another loss  ofRs.  50,000  on	 account of the strike	of  cane-growers  inMarch, 1958; that all their sugar stock was pledged with thePunjab	National Bank, Bijnor, against an advance of 75	 percent.  of  the price; and that there were  arrears  of	cessamounting  to  about Rs. 5,50,000 and that the	lease  moneyamounting to Rs. 6,10,000 for the next season was also	due.They  therefore,  'expressed  their inability  to  send	 anysugar.	 They also stated that if they redeemed the  pledgedsugar  even  after paying the " on account "  money  to	 theBank,52the  Bank would be receiving Rs. 15-2-0 per maund less	thanthe controlled price of sugar.	They further stated that  itwas  not possible for them to sell sugar at  the  controlledprice fixed by the Directorate and ended by saying that theywere  not in a position to ,despatch sugar, pointing out  atthe  same  time that the Act was  unconstitutional  and	 notbinding on them.The export agency, however, was not agreeable, and it  askedthe  S.P.B. Mills either to deliver the export quota or	 paythe  net sale-proceeds for the same, pointing out  that	 theMills  ran the risk of liability for the  additional  exciseduty of Rs. 17 per maund.While matters stood at this stage and the S. P. B. Mills hadneither paid the amount demanded nor agreed to despatch	 thesugar,	a petition was filed in this Court and	a  temporarystay was obtained.The  questions that have been raised in these petitions	 aremany,  but  they can be grouped under two heads,  viz.,	 thevires  of  the legislation and the propriety of	 the  actiontaken under it.	 The argument about the vires challenges theAct as a whole and also clause by clause.  In regard to	 thevires  of  the Act, the petitioners draw  attention  to	 thestatement of objects and reasons, incorporated in one of theaffidavits  in	the case.  According to them,  the  declaredobject of the Act is to earn foreign exchange.	They contendthat if foreign exchange is so urgently needed, there shouldhave   been  uniform  legislation  compelling  other   sugarmanufacturers,	who  do not manufacture by  the	 vacuum	 panprocess,  also to export sugar.	 This argument is  based  onalleged	 discrimination and on Art. 14 of the  Constitution.The  petitioners  further  contend  that  manufacturers	  ofcommodities other than sugar are not compelled to export  ina like manner, and thus there is further discrimination.In  our	 opinion, this argument is without  substance.	 Thepower  of  Parliament to make laws in  relation	 to  foreignexchange  is  manifest.	  Entry No. 36	of  the	 Union	Listspecifically confers jurisdiction on Parliament to legislatein relation to foreign exchange.  That Entry, if interpretedwidely, would embrace within53itself	not  only laws relating to the	control	 of  foreignexchange but also to its acquisition to better the  economicstability of the country.  The need for foreign exchange  tofinance	 the various development schemes was very  properly,not  disputed.	It is thus plain that the object of the	 Actis  in	the  public  interest., If we  are  to	exist  as  aprogressive nation, it is very necessary that we carve out aplace  for  ourselves  in  the	International  market.	 Thebeginning has to be made, and many a time, it is at a  greatloss.	That the, Central Government has selected the  sugarindustry  for  an  export programme does not  mean  that  itcannot make a classification of the commodities, bearing  inmind which commodity will have an easy market abroad for thepurpose	 of  earning  foreign  exchange.   During  the	Suezcrisis,	 sugar	was exported in large quantities  from	thiscountry, and earned 12-4 chores as foreign exchange.   Thereis  nothing  on	 the record to show  that  export  of  othercommodities  was not also undertaken, though it was  pointedout  in arguments that manganese ore was also exported in  asimilar	 manner	 to  earn foreign  exchange.   It  is  quiteobvious that the Central Government cannot order the  exportof all and sundry manufactured commodities from the country,without	 being	assured of a market  in	 foreign  countries.Necessarily, the Government can only embark upon. an  exportpolicy in relation to these products, for which there is  aneasy  and readily available market abroad.  For this  reasonalso, sugar produced by the vacuum pan process may have beenselected, because such sugar is perhaps in demand abroad andnot  sugar  produced  by  any other  process.	It  must  berealised  that	goods manufactured in our  country  have  tostand heavy competition from goods produced abroad, and eventhis export can only be made at great sacrifice, and is madeonly  to earn foreign exchange, which would not,  otherwise,be available.In this view of the matter, it cannot be said that there  isdiscrimination	in  so	far as sugar  manufacturers  by	 thevacuum	pan process are concerned.  Government is  the	bestjudge as to which commodities are54most likely to earn foreign exchange, and the selection thusmade is justifiable as a reasonable classification which  isrelated	 to  the object of the Act, namely, the	 earning  offoreign exchange.The  next  contention is under Arts. 19(1) (f) and  (g)	 andalso  31 of the Constitution.  The petitioners contend	thatthe whole export programme in respect of sugar amounts to aninfringement  of their fundamental Fights under Arts.  19(1)(f) and (g), and amounts also to a compulsory acquisition oftheir  property without payment of compensation.  The  peti-tioners	 analyse  the scheme of the Act, and state  that  itamounts to taking sugar from owners for sale abroad at	suchprice as it may fetch, the owners being paid when such moneyis  received,  after deducting the expenses  of	 the  exportagency	and the cost of export.	 They state that the  ownersstand  to  lose, because, admittedly, sugar is going  to  beexported at a loss, and the loss is to fall on the owners offactories.   They  further state that if the  necessity	 forforeign exchange was felt, the' loss entailed in the earningof  foreign  exchange should be borne by  Government  or  bedistributed among all industries, or at least among all	 thesugar producers in the country.	 It is urged that the Act isan  unreasonable restriction upon the fundamental rights  tohold,  acquire,	 and  dispose of property and  to  carry  onoccupation, trade or business.In  reply,  the learned Attorney-General on  behalf  of	 theUnion  as  well as the Directorate of Sugar  refers  to	 thenegotiations which took place between the Government and thesugar industry and the arrangements which were made to	saveowners	of factories from the loss which is inevitable as  aresult of this export programme.  We were taken through	 thevarious Control Orders which were passed by Government underthe  Essential Commodities Act about this time,	 fixing	 theprice  of  sugar for internal consumption.   In	 particular,reference  is  made  to the  Sugar  (Control)  Order,  1955,Notification  No. G. S. R. 661/ ESS.  Com/Sugar	 dated	July30,  1958.  It is pointed out that by that Notification	 theprice  of  sugar was increased by 50 nP. per  maund  on	 allinternal sales			 55to enable the factories giving their export quota to  recoupthemselves  for	 the loss, which might be entailed.  It	 wasanticipated that the loss would be recouped if there was  anincrease  of  50  nP. per maund in the price  of  sugar	 forinternal consumption and the export quota was fixed at 2-1/2per cent. of the total production of a factory for  1957-58.The loss, it was expected, would be more than set off by theexcess	price which the producers would be able to  get	 forevery  20 maunds sold for internal consumption.	 It is	alsopointed	 out  that Government at that time did not  wish  totake over the work of export on itself and specified as	 theexport	agency, the Indian Sugar Mills Association,  a	bodycomposed of 95 per cent. of the sugar mills in the  country.The learned Attorney General also points out that more	than95  per cent. of the mills have stood by  this	arrangement,and did either supply their quota of sugar or sold it in theinternal market and made available the money for purchase ofsugar  for export. only a few mills in the country  resortedto  these  devices to get out of the  commitment  which	 theindustry as a whole had entered into.  The learned Attorney-General	 also  contends that the  petitioners  had  obtainedfavourable prices for sale of sugar in the country but	werenot  willing to honour their other commitments which,  afterthe agreement of the sugar industry, were given	 legislativeform.Learned counsel for the petitioners contends that the  viresof  the Act should be considered without reference to  othercircumstances such as the agreements, price adjustments	 andprice	control,   as  they  have  no	bearing	  upon	 theresonableness of the legislation.  In State of Madras v.  V.G.  Row	 (1),  this  Court laid down  that  in	judging	 theresonableness of a restriction upon fundamental rights,	 thesurrounding  circumstances  can be looked  into.   PatanjaliSastri, C.J., observed as follows:"  It is important in this context to bear in mind that	 thetest,  of  reasonableness, wherever  prescribed,  should  beapplied to each individual statute impugned,(1)[1952] S.C.R. 597, 607.56and  no	 abstract standard, or general	pattern	 of  reason-ableness  can be laid down as applicable to all cases.	 Thenature	of  the right alleged to have  been  infringed,	 theunderlying  purpose of the restrictions imposed, the  extentand  urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby;	 thedisproportion  of the imposition, the prevailing  conditionsat the time, should all enter into the judicial verdict.  Inevaluating  such  elusive  factors  and	 forming  their	 ownconception  of what is reasonable, in all the  circumstancesof a given case, it is inevitable that the social philosophyand  the scale of values of the judges participating in	 thedecision  should  play an important part, and the  limit  totheir  interference with legislative judgment in such  casescan  only be dictated by their sense of	 responsibility	 andself-restraint	 and  the  sobering  reflection	  that	 theConstitution  is meant not only for people of their  way  ofthinking  but for all, and that the majority of the  electedrepresentatives	 of  'the people have,	in  authorising	 theimposition  of	the  restrictions,  considered	them  to  bereasonable."In  Virendra  v. The State of Punjab (1), S. R.	 Das,  C.J.,again  reaffirmed this approach.  See also Arunachala  Nadarv. State of Madras (2).It  is, however, contended that though one can look  at	 thesurrounding  circumstances, it is not open to the  Court  toexamine	 other	laws on the subject, unless  those  laws  beincorporated  by  reference.   In our  opinion,	 this  is  afallacious    argument.	   The	 Court	 in   judging	 thereasonableness of a law, will necessarily see, not only	 thesurrounding    circumstances   but    all    contemporaneouslegislation  passed  as	 part  of  a  single  scheme.	 Thereasonableness of the restriction and not of the law has  tobe  found  out,	 and if restriction is	under  one  law	 butcountervailing advantages are created by another law  passedas  part of the same legislative plan, the Court should	 notrefuse to take that other law into account.The  existence	of  such  other	 law  is  not  difficult  toestablish.   The Courts can take judicial notice of it.	  Aswas laid down by the Privy Council in Attorney-General(1) [1958] S.C.R. 308, 318.(2) 1959 S.C.J. 297, 299-301.57for Alberta v. Attorney-General for Canada(1), the Courts indetermining the effect of legislation, do take into account,it  any	 public general knowledge of which the	Court  wouldtake judicial notice, and may in a proper case require to beinformed   by  evidence	 as  to	 what  the  effect  of	 thelegislation  will  be.	 Clearly, the  Acts  passed  by	 theProvincial  Legislature may be considered, for it  is  oftenimpossible  to	determine  the	effect	of  the	 Act   underexamination  without  taking  into  account  any  other	 Actoperating, or intended to operate, or recently operating  inthe Province."No doubt, this was laid down in a case falling within ss. 91and  92	 of the British North America Act, but	the  generalproposition  is equally applicable where the effect  of	 thelegislation on those governed by it has to be measured.	  Inthe  same  connection,	their  Lordships  looked  into	 thehistorical  background	of  legislation	 to  find  out	 thematerials  which were considered before the legislation	 waspromoted  in  the legislature.	See also Ladore	 v.  Bennett(2).   This  Court  also in Arunachala	Nadar  v.  State  ofMadras(3),   examined  the  '  historical  background'	 anddiscovered  the object of the Act, " from the  circumstancesunder which it was passed."That  other contemporaneous legislation passed as part of  alegislative  plan can be examined was clearly laid  down  bythe  Privy  Council in Pillai v. Mudanayake  (4).   In	thatcase,  the question was whether the Ceylon  Citizenship	 Act(18  of	 1948)	and  the  Ceylon  (Parliamentary  Elections)Amendment  Act (48 of 1949) were valid, or were ultra  viresthe  Ceylon  Parliament, being void under s.  29(2)  of	 theCeylon	(Constitution  and Independence) Order	in  Council,1946  (as  amended).  Under the first two Acts,	 the  IndianTamils	were denied as a community, the right  of  franchiseunless	they came within the terms of the first	 Act.	Theywere  thus subjected to disabilities and restrictions  whichwere prohibited by(1)  (1939) A.C. 117, 130.(2)  (1939) A.C. 468, 477.8(3)  1950 S.C.J. 297. 299-301-(4)  (1953) A.C. 514.58s.   29(2)  of the Order-in-Council.  During the  course  ofarguments,  their Lordships' attention was drawn to a  laterAct,   intituled   the	Indian	 and   Pakistani   Residents(Citizenship) Act (3 of 1949), under which the Indian Tamilsand others were entitled to get themselves registered as thecitizens  of Ceylon on proof of sufficient  connection	withCeylon.	 It was argued by Mr. Pritt, Q.C., before the  PrivyCouncil that the later Act could not be read to justify	 theearlier	 Act, because if the impugned Citizenship  Act	werebad  when  it was passed, it could not be  brought  back  tolight'	by  the	 enactment of  the  subsequent	Act.   TheirLordships  did not accept this argument and read  the  laterAct with the previous.	They observed:"It was argued that sections 4 and 5 of the Citizenship	 Actmade it impossible that the descendants, however remote,  ofa person who was unable to attain citizenship himself  couldever  be able to attain citizenship in Ceylon no matter	 howlong they resided there, but their Lordships' attention	 wassubsequently  drawn  to the Indian and	Pakistani  Residents(Citizenship)  Act, No. 3 of 1949, by which an Indian  Tamilcould  by an application obtain citizenship by	registrationand thus protect his descendants, provided he had a  certainresidental qualification.  It was suggested on behalf of theappellant  that	 this  Act might itself be  ultra  vires  asconferring a privilege upon Indian Tamils within s. 29(2)(c)of the Constitution Order-in Council, and that therefore  itwas inadmissible to rebut the inference that the legislaturehad intended by, the Citizenship and Franchise Acts to	makeIndian	Tamils liable to disabilities within the meaning  ofs.   29(2)(b),	but  their  Lordships  cannot  accept	thisargument.  If there was a legislative plan the plan must  belooked	at as a whole, and when so looked at it is  evident,in  their Lordships' opinion, that the legislature  did	 notintend	to prevent Indian Tamils from attaining	 citizenshipprovided  that	they were sufficiently	connected  with	 theisland.	 "It  is not necessary to speculate as to the remedies of	 thesugar	dealers	  if  the  Sugar  Control  Order,   or	 thenotification were varied or abrogated in future.  The59reasonableness of the restriction is to be judged today	 andin the context of the circumstances now existing.It cannot but be accepted that the Government made  adequatearrangements to recoup the sugar industry for the loss whichit  might  suffer  in giving, the export  quota.   For	thatpurpose,  though  the export quota was fixed  at  2-1/2	 percent. of the total quantity produced by a factory, the	losswhich  was expected to be Rs. 10 per maund was	spread	overthe  remaining	sugar  to be sold in  the  country  and	 wasrecouped  at 50 nP. per maund.	We are unable to accept	 theplea that the petitioners were not able to sell sugar at thecontrolled  price,  because the price -Was fixed  too  high.Learned counsel for the petitioners contend that by fixing aceiling	 there	is no guarantee that the commodity  will  besold at the ceiling price and not at a lower rate.  It is  awell-known proposition that when commodities are  controlledby  fixation  of  price, the commodities sell  only  at	 thecontrolled  price and not less.	 Economists have  complainedthat the worst fault of price control is that the price doesnot fall below the controlled rate.  There is nothing in therecord	of the case to show that the Mills were not able  tosell their sugar at the controlled price.We  are	 satisfied  that  the object of	 the  Act  does	 notinfringe  the  fundamental rights of  the  petitioners.	  Toprevent	  any  loss  to	 the   petitioners,   countervailingadditional  prices  were  allowed  on  sales  of  sugar	 forinternal consumption.  The petitioners did not stand to loseultimately. The quota was fixed at 2-1/2 per cent. of  theirtotal  production,  and it is inconceivable  that  they	 areunable	to  sell  sugar	 in  the  open	home  market.	Thissuggestion  of the petitioners that they are unable to	sellsugar at the controlled price has not been substantiated  bythe  production of a single document to show what they	heldin stock and what they had sold.  The balance sheet producedby the S. P. B. Mills shows that they were able to sell morethan a lakh of bags in eight months, as against the quantityof 4,079 bags for export.It  is	obvious that the plea that the Mills are  unable  tosell sugar at the controlled price is a mere sham.60Indeed,	 an examination of the correspondence in  the  firstcase  clearly demonstrates that the Mills were devising	 oneexcuse or another to avoid the liability to supply the quotaof  sugar.  First, they raised the contention that they	 didnot  have  the	requisite  grade.   Then  they	raised	 thecontention that they could not sell sugar.  Thereafter	theyasked for supply in installments, and when instalments	werefixed,	they put forth the excuse of there being  no  wagonsavailable.   They  next	 urged that the	 Bank  was  charginginterest,  and	that interest should be	 waived	 before	 thedocuments would be retired.  When interest was waived,	theyfiled  the petition in this Court.  In these  circumstances,in  our	 opinion, there can be no ground  for  holding	thatthere has been an infringement of the fundamental rights  ofthe  petitioners.   The restriction  was  not  unreasonable,because	 arrangement  was  made to save the  owners  of	 thefactories from loss, and the loss entailed by the export  ofsugar  was to be borne by the consumers in India and not  bythe producers.There is one more circumstance which may be considered.	 Theforeign	 export served the national interest by	 stabilisingthe sugar market so that the production of sugarcane may  bemaintained  at	a  reasonable  level.	It  also  stabilisednational economy by earning foreign exchange.  The loss,  ifany,  was  comparatively  small and  was  spread  over	manyfactories.   Apart  from the very real	possibility  of	 itsbeing recouped by sales in the country, the loss itself	 wasso small as not to amount to an unreasonable restriction.The petitioners next challenge the Act in its parts to	showthat there is infringement of fundamental rights or, in	 thealternative,   compulsory  acquisition	of  their   propertywithout	 compensation.	In this connection, ss. 5 to  9	 arechallenged.   Section 5 only permits the Central  Governmentto fix the quota leviable from different factories.  If	 theobject	and purpose of the Act is valid and also is  in	 thepublic	interest, there being no disadvantage to the  ownersultimately, s. 5 which fixes the quota for export from sugarproduced by a factory cannot be challenged separately.61Section	 6  Makes it incumbent on the owner to	supply	thatsugar on demand and further provides that after delivery  ofsugar, the owner retains no right except to receive  paymenttherefor  under	 s.  9. This section is	 criticised  on	 theground	that  delivery	of goods and payment  of  the  priceshould	be concurrent conditions,' that is to say, that	 thebuyer  should  be  ready and willing to	 pay  the  price  inexchange for possession of the goods.  If the Government wasbuying sugar, the provisions of s. 32 of the Indian Sale  ofGoods Act, which is apparently relied upon here, might	havebeen  invoked.	 The  object and purpose of the	 Act  is  toexport sugar and to divide the receipts less expenses, amongthe  owners  who  supply sugar	for  export.   The  argumentoverlooks the scheme that export is made by a Central Agencyfor the industry as a whole, and the prices obtained  abroadare payable, and they are less than those at which sugar  ofvarious	 grades sells within the country.  The section	doesnot suffer from any infirmity, if the object and purpose  ofthe   Act   is,	 as  has  been	found	above,	 valid	 andconstitutional.	  It must not be forgotten  that  during-thetime payment was due, the owners were getting an  additional50 nP. on every maund sold by them in the country.  Deferredpayment is not deprivation of property, nor an	encroachmentupon  fundamental  rights.   The affidavits  show  that	 theentire	quota of 50,000 tons has been exported, that it	 hasearned	Rs.  2-4 crores in foreign exchange,  and  that	 theexporters have been paid except for a small balance.Section	 7 is the penalty section.  We	heard  considerableargument  as  to whether the section would apply to  a	casewhere no delivery was at all made, in view of the words:"   where  sugar delivered by any owner falls short  of	 theexport	quota."No  action  has yet been taken against the Mills  under	 thesection;  nor has -any penalty been imposed.   The  questionwhether the section is ultra vires the legislature need	 notbe considered here.Section	 8  deals with export of sugar or its  sale  by	 theowner or the export agency.  It is stated that the62section deals with sugar delivered to the export agency, andhere  there  was no sugar delivered.  The  first  subsectiondeals  with  export, and the export agency can	only  exportsugar delivered to it.	The second subsection authorises theexport	agency	to sell the sugar for reasons given  in	 thefirst sub-section.  It also authorises the export agency  topermit	the  owner  to sell sugar in his  custody.   In	 thepresent cases, there was a demand for delivery of the  sugarof  the	 quota,	 and that has not  been	 met.	Whether	 thepetitioners have exposed themselves to any penalty can	onlybe considered when penalty is actually imposed on them.The  condition	that the sale-proceeds are  payable  to	 theexport	agency is perfectly valid, regard being had  to	 thescheme of the export and the advantage allowed on all  salesin India.  The owners having obtained that advantage  cannotclaim  to  keep	 the proceeds of such sales,  by  which	 theexport	policy is to be run.  Out of the 50,000 tons,  abouthalf  was  sold in India, and with the	sale-proceeds  othersugar  was  bought  and	 exported, and	this  would  not  bepossible  if the export agency were required to make a	spotcash payment.Section	 9 provides how payments to owners are to  be  made.Since the export was by a non-profit-making agency  composedof the sugar industry, it is obvious that the payments couldnot  be	 made forthwith.  As explained already,	 the  ownersreceived  payment after the sale prices were  received	fromabroad.	  Necessary deductions of expenses have to be  made,and  the  proceeds  are then distributed.   No	doubt,	suchpayment is likely to be somewhat delayed but looking to	 thesmall  quantity	 involved (i.e. not more than 20  per  cent.under the Act and in actuality, only 2-1/2 per cent.) it wasnot likely to make it very hard for the owners, who were  inthe  meantime breaking this loss at the rate of 50  nP.	 forevery maund of sugar sold in India.  In our opinion, none ofthe  sections  considered here, even viewed  separately,  isultra vires.The  petitioners did not challenge the action taken  by	 theexport	agency as being contrary to the Act.   No  ,argumentcan  be	 considered in view of the want of a  plea  to	thiseffect in the two petitions.  In the petition63by  the	 S. P. B. Mills, the petitioner did not	 invite	 anydecision on the correctness of the demand for the additionalexcise	duty,  because	no  such duty  has,  in	 fact,	beendemanded.   The	 main contention of the Mills was  that	 allsugar was pledged with banks.  The pleadings on this part ofthe  case  are	far  from clear	 or  sufficient.   The	onlyreference  is to a letter, which is insufficient.   However,in view of the fact that learned counsel reserved this pointto be raised for exemption from payment of additional  duty,we say nothing about it.The  result  is	 that  both  the  petitions  fail,  and	 aredismissed with costs.SARKAR	J.-I  think these two applications  should  succeed.They  raise the question whether the Sugar Export  PromotionAct, 1958 is invalid as imposing an unreasonable restrictionon the petitioners' right to carry on their trade.Some   of   the	  petitioners  are   owners   of   factoriesmanufacturing  sugar  by  a process called  the	 vacuum	 panprocess	 and they carry on business as manufacturers of	 anddealers	 in sugar.  For the purposes of this judgment  thesepersons	 may be taken to be the petitioners.  The  principalrespondent in these applications is the Government of India.The other respondent is the Indian Sugar Mills	Association,an  association of manufacturers of sugar by the vacuum	 panprocess.On  June  27,  1958,  the  Government  had  promulgated	  anOrdinance.   The  impugned Act was passed on  September	 16,1958  repealing the Ordinance and reenacting its  provisionsand  also providing that anything done under  the  Ordinancewould be deemed to have been done under the Act as if it hadcome into force when the Ordinance had been promulgated.As  appears  from  its preamble, the  Act  was	intended  toprovide	 for the export of sugar in public interest  and  itset up a machinery for that purpose.  I will summarise	herethe  main  provisions of the Act.  Section  3  empowers	 theCentral	 Government  to	 specify a  company  or	 other	bodycorporate  as the export agency to perform the functions  ofthat agency under the Act.64The respondent Indian Sugar Mills Association wag  specifiedas  the	 export	 agency	 under	this  section.	 Section   4authorises  the	 Central Government to fix the	quantity  ofsugar  that  may  be exported, during any  period,  but	 thequantity  so  fixed for a year is not to exceed	 twenty	 percent.  of the quantity of sugar produced in India  upto	 themonth of October in that year.	Section 4 also provides that" in fixing such quantity the Central Government shall	haveregard to -(a) the quantity of sugar available in India, (b)the  quantity  of  sugar which, in  its	 opinion,  would  bereasonably  required  for  consumption	in  India,  (c)	 thenecessity for exporting sugar with a view to earning foreignexchange  in  the public interest." Section 5  requires	 theCentral Government to apportion the quantity fixed under  s.4  among  the  owners of factories producing  sugar  by	 thevacuum pan process in proportion to the quantity produced orlikely	to  be	produced by them  respectively,	 during	 theseason.	  The  quantity so apportioned to  each	 factory  iscalled	its  export quota.  Section 6  provides	 that  everyowner  of  a factory shall, on demand by the  export  agencydeliver to it sugar upto its export quota and on delivery  "the  owner shall retain no rights in respect of	 such  sugarexcept	his right to receive payment therefor under  section9." Section 7 makes provision for an additional excise	dutybeing  levied  in certain circumstances on the	quantity  ofsugar by which the sugar delivered by the owner of a factoryfalls short of its export quota.  Section 8 states that	 theexport	agency	shall  export the  sugar  delivered  to	 it,provided that in certain circumstances specified, the exportagency may sell that sugar in India and may if it thinks fitpurchase other sugar for export and for this purpose  permitthe owner to sell the whole or part of its export quota at aprice approved, on condition that the sale proceeds are paidto it.	The provisions of s. 9 are important and will be setout  later.   It  is not necessary to  refer  to  the  otherprovisions of the Act.Soon after the Ordinance had been promulgated the Governmentstarted	 taking	 action under it.  By a	 notification  datedJune 27, 1958, 50,000 tons of sugar65was  fixed under s. 4 as the total quantity for	 export	 forthe period ending October 31, 1958.  Export quotas were dulyfixed for all factories including those of the	petitioners.The  petitioners were thereafter asked by the export  agencyto sell the sugar and pay the saleproceeds to it.  This theyfailed	to  do.	  It is said by	 the  respondents  that	 thepetitioners  were also asked to deliver the sugar  and	thisalso  they  failed to do.  The petitioners  set	 up  variousreasons	 justifying  their failure to sell  or	deliver	 therequisite  quantities of sugar.	 It is unnecessary to  referto  these  reasons  for	 if  the  Act  is  invalid,  as	 thepetitioners  contend  the orders could not be  made  and  noquestion would arise as to whether the petitioners had validreasons	 for  not carrying them out.  It  appears  that	 theexport	agency felt that the petitioners were neither  goingto  sell the sugar and pay the sale proceeds nor to  deliverthe  sugar and it thereupon pointed out to  the	 petitionersthat  they were by their conduct exposing themselves to	 therisk of having to pay the additional excise duty under s. 7.It  was then that the present applications  for	 appropriatewrits  restraining the respondents from taking	steps  underthe Act were launched by the petitioners on the ground interalia that the Act was invalid as it unreasonably  restrictedthe  petitioners'  right  to carry on their  trade.   I	 nowproceed to examine the validity of this contention.From the provisions of the Act earlier set out, it is  quiteclear that it requires the owner of a sugar factory to	partwith a portion of the produce of his factory in exchange foran amount to be fixed under the provisions of s. 9. The	 Acttherefore restricts his freedom of trade; it takes away	 hisright  to  trade with the whole of his	merchandise  in	 anymanner	he  likes.   The question is,  is  such	 restrictionreasonable ?It is necessary now to set out the terms of s. 9 of the	 Actwhich  fixes  the amount which a manufacturer  of  sugar  inentitled  to  receive in respect of the sugar  delivered  byhim.   Only sub-ss. (1) and (2) of this section need be	 setout and they are as follows:Section	 9.-(1) The export agency shall, at such time as  itthinks fit, make to the owners who have966delivered sugar to it under this Act, payments determined inaccordance  with the provisions hereinafter in this  sectioncontained.(2)From the total sale-proceeds in respect of the quantityfixed for export under section 4 for any year,	there  shallbe  deducted  the total expenditure incurred by	 the  exportagency	 in  respect  of  the  sugar  whether  by   way	  ofadministrative expenses or otherwise, and the balance  shallbe  apportioned	 among	the  owners  in	 proportion  to	 thequantity of sugar delivered by then respectively during thatyear.The substance of the matter then is that an owner of a sugarfactory	 gets  in exchange for the sugar  delivered  by	 himunder  the Act, a proportionate share of  the  sale-proceedsless the expenses.  He has no hand in deciding at what pricethe  goods would be sold by the export agency.	If they	 aresold  for  a very low price, he has no	right  to  complain.Neither	 has  he  any power to control	the  expenses.	 Theexchange value that a sugar manufacturer is entitled to	 getunder the Act for sugar delivered by him, therefore, dependsentirely on the export agency.	Again, under subsec. (1)  ofs.  9, the export agency need pay the manufacturer  only  atsuch  times  as it thinks fit.	It may be difficult  to	 saythat all these terms are reasonable.However that may be, there is another aspect of the questionwhich  in  my view decides it.	It is quite  plain  that  asthings	are, sugar can be sold abroad only at a loss.	Thatclearly appears from the materials on the record and is	 notindeed disputed.  I think it enough to refer to the  Objectsand  Reasons of the Act and to a statement in the  affidavitof  Shri K. P. Jain, Chief Director, Directorate  of  Sugar,affirmed  on  February 13, 1959 and filed on behalf  of	 theGovernment,  to	 show  that the Act  contemplated  that	 theexport	of sugar made under it would result in a  loss.	  Inthe Objects & Reasons of the Act it is stated,"With a view to earning foreign exchange it is necessary  topromote	 export	 of  sugar.  The export	 of  sugar  however,involves  a  loss,  even if excise duty and  cane  cess	 areremitted."67In paragraph 22 of Shri Jain's said affidavit it is stated,"I  further say that ... the entire scheme envisaged in	 theAct  depends on the pooling of the losses on export  by	 allsugar  factories  in India, in proportion  to  their  exportquota."We  then get to this that on the respondents' own  case	 theexports	 under	the  Act can be made only at  a	 loss.	 Theresult therefore is that the Act compels the petitioners  topart with a portion of their merchandise at a loss.  Can therestrictions  so  put on the petitioners' trade by  the	 Actthen be said to be reasonable?	I conceive it is  impossibleto do so.  It is said that the Act was passed with a view toearn  foreign  exchange by export of sugar.   Indeed  so  itappears	 from the Objects & Reasons of the Act	earlier	 setout and the provisions of s. 4 earlier quoted.	I will agreethat  earning  of  foreign exchange  is	 essential  for	 thecountry.  But I do not see that justifies the enactment of alegislation  which imposes a loss on a	sugar  manufacturer.It is not as if foreign exchange could not be earned withoutinflicting loss on the manufacturers of sugar.	That  indeedis  not	 the respondents' case.	 The loss  might  have	beenavoided	 if for example, the exports were made by the  grantof a subsidy, a course in fact adopted by the Government  inthe  year 1951-52.  It has not been said that there was	 anydifficulty in granting the subsidy for the exports under theAct.  A reasonable restriction on a citizen's right to carryon  his trade which alone is permitted by Art. 19(6) of	 theConstitution, must be, as Mahajan, J., said in Chintaman Raov.  The	 State of Madhya Pradesh(1),  a	 restriction  "whichreason dictates", which " unless it strikes a proper balancebetween the freedom guaranteed in article 19(1) (g) and	 thesocial	control permitted by clause (6) of article 19,	mustbe  held to be wanting in that quality." Here I do not	findthe  balance struck nor the infliction of the loss a  coursewhich  reason  dictates.  The loss  which  the	restrictionsimposed by the Act on the petitioners' trade caused to them,was  by	 no means such as could only have  been	 avoided  byincurring a greater loss.(1)[1950] S.C. R. 759, 763.68I  also	 think	it clear that an  object  however  laudable,cannot by itself and without more, make a restriction put ona  citizen's  right to carry on a trade for  attaining	thatobject,	 reasonable.  A restriction on a person's  right  tocarry  on  his	trade does  not	 become	 reasonable,  simplybecause	 it had been imposed on him to achieve an object  ofgreat necessity and undoubted merit.  The reasonableness hasto  be judged in all the circumstances of the case  and	 theobject	to  be attained is only one of	such  circumstances.This, in my view, is too clear to require elaboration.It is not necessary for me to pursue the matter further	 forit is not the respondents' contention that the	restrictionsare reasonable notwithstanding that they cause loss.  On theother hand, the contention of the respondents is for reasonsto  be presently stated that the Act really caused  no	lossand  that being so the restrictions imposed by it cannot  besaid  to  be unreasonable.  I proceed now  to  consider	 therespondents' reason for saying that the Act imposes no	losson the sugar manufacturers including the petitioners.It  is first said that though the exports result in  a	lossnow,  it  may  in future bring in  profits.   That  hope  isclearly	 only a pious hope.  And what is more, it is  not  ahope  which has even been expressed in the affidavits  filedon  behalf  of	the respondents.   On  the  contrary,  theseaffidavits  make it perfectly plain that in the	 foreseeablefuture	there is no hope of export of sugar being made at  aprofit.	  Indeed,  it is said in these affidavits  that	 thescheme	of  the Act is based on the pooling  of	 the  lossescaused by the exports made under it.  It is hardly necessaryto  point  out	that if the exports  could  be	expected  toproduce a profit in the near future, the coercive  machineryof  the	 Act for making the exports  would  be	unnecessary.There is no basis whatever for saying that in some years theexport	may result in a profit.	 Indeed on  the	 respondentsown affidavits it is not open to them to say that they	hopethat it may be possible in future to make a profit on exportof sugar.Then it -is said that the export quota fixed for 1957-58  isonly 2-1/2 per cent. of the production of each			     69factory.   The point sought to be made is  that,  therefore,the  amount of the loss would be very small.  Now 2-1/2	 percent. of the production of the factory of the petitioners inWrit Petition No. 9 of 1959 is 12,533 maunds.  It is  statedby  the respondents in the supplementary affidavit  of	ShriJain  affirmed	on March II,' 1959, that on the	 export	 theloss  will  be in the region of Rs. 10 per maund.   On	thisbasis the loss to the petitioners in that petition would  beRs. 1,25,530.  The loss to the petitioners in Writ  PetitionNo.  14 of 1959 would be slightly less.	 I for myself  wouldhesitate to say that losses in such amounts are	 negligible.The  export quota for 1958-59 has been fixed at 5 per  cent.of  the	 production.   Naturally, the  loss  would  be	muchlarger.	  The  Government have the right under	the  Act  toincrease the quota upto 20 per cent.  The loss if the  quotais  increased  to the utmost would be  formidable.   In	 thecases  of factories with larger production the losses  wouldbe much larger than the petitioners' losses.  And of, coursethe  reasonableness of the restrictions imposed by  the	 Acthas  to	 be tested generally and without  reference  to	 anyparticular sugar manufacturer.	I am also unable to agree tothe  proposition  that the reasonableness of  a	 restrictiondepends	 on  the quantum of the loss it	 produces.   Even  asmall  loss may conceivably make a restriction	causing	 it,unreasonable.	The  quantum of the loss  cannot  by  itselfdecide	the reasonableness of the restriction.	Does  reasondictate that a small loss shall be inflicted ?	Nothing thathas been said in this case leads me to hold that.It is then said that the loss caused by the Act was recoupedby an order made by the Government increasing the home priceof  the	 sugar	and  therefore	in  fact  the  manufacturerssuffered no loss.  The process of recoupment was thus statedin paragraph 14 of the said main affidavit of Shri Jain:"  The incidence of loss on the first quota of	50,000	tonsfixed  by the Government was assessed and when	the  CentralGovernment fixed the price of sugar for internal consumptionunder  the provisions of the Essential Commodities  Act	 andthe Sugar (Control)70Order,	  1955,	 they gave adjustment in price by adding  50nP.  per  maund	 in  the  ex-factory  prices  of  sugar	 forinternal sales."It  is said that the increase so made in the home  price  ofsugar  would  completely wipe out the loss incurred  on	 theexport under the Act of 2-1/2 per cent. of the produce of  afactory.  I will accept this as a correct estimate.  I	willalso  ignore the petitioners' contention that they  had	 notbeen  able  to	sell the sugar in the  home  market  at	 theincreased price.The argument then is that though the impugned Act produces aloss,  that loss can be ignored because the  Government	 hastaken  steps  under  another  Act  to  recoup  the  loss  sooccasioned.   It  is  said that in  the	 circumstances	thatprevail,  namely,  the	increase  in  the  home	 price,	 therestrictions  imposed by the impugned Act cannot be said  tobe  unreasonable,  for on the whole they occasion  no  loss.This  is indeed the principal contention of the	 respondentsto establish that the restrictions are not unreasonable.Now a reference to the Essential Commodities Act under whichthe home price was increased has to be made.  It was  passedin  the	 year  1955.  It was not intended  to  earn  foreignexchange; indeed it had nothing to do with foreign  exchangeor  with helping the sugar industry.  Section 3 of this	 Actprovides: "Section  3.  (1) If the Central Government is	 of  opinionthat  it is necessary or expedient so to do for	 maintainingor  increasing	supplies of any essential commodity  or	 forsecuring  their equitable distribution and  availability  atfair  prices,  it may, by order, provide for  regulating  orprohibiting the production, supply and distribution  thereofand trade and commerce therein.(2)Without  prejudice  to  the generality  of  the  powersconferred  by sub-section (1), an order made thereunder	 mayprovide(c)  for  controlling  the  price  at  which  any  essentialcommodity may be bought or sold."Sugar  is an essential commodity-within the meaning of	thatterm in the Act.  Under the powers conferred71by  the	 section  quoted  above, on  August  27,  1955,	 theGovernment passed an order called the Sugar (Control) Order,1955.  Clause 5 of that order provides that,(1)The	Central	 Government  may from  time  to	 time,	bynotification  in the Official Gazette, fix the price or	 themaximum	   price    at	  which	   any	  sugar	   may	  besold...'	      .....   Such price  or  maximum  priceshall  be fixed ... with due regard to the price or  minimumprice  fixed  for  sugar cane,	manufacturing  cost,  taxes,reasonable  margin of profit for producer and/or trade,	 andany incidental charges.(2)Where the price or the maximum price has been so  fixedno person shall sell or purchase............ any sugar at  aprice in excess of that fixed under subclause (1)."It  was	 under	this  Order that  the  Government  issued  aNotification  on July 30, 1958, enhancing the home price  ofsugar  by  50 nP. per maund which it is said wipes  out	 theloss caused by the impugned Act.I will assume that the Notification increasing the price wasissued	with the object of recouping the loss caused by	 theimpugned Act as stated in the affidavit of Shri Jain, thoughthe Notification itself does not say so.  The question	thenis,  is the increase in the home price of sugar made by	 theGovernment  by a Notification issued under the powers  givento it by another Act which has the effect of wiping out	 theloss  inflicted	 by the impugned Act, a	 circumstance  whichmakes the restrictions imposed by the latter Act  reasonable?It  is	said that this is so ; that in judging	the  reason-ableness  of  the  restriction imposed by  one	Act,  it  ispermissible  to	 consider  an order made  by  the  executiveGovernment  under  another  Act.  We were  referred  to	 theobservations of Patanjali Sastri, C. J., in State of  Madrasv. V. G. Rao (1).  The learned Chief Justice there stated atp. 607:"The nature of the right alleged to have been infringed, theunderlying  purpose of the restrictions imposed, the  extentand  urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby,	 thedisproportion of the(1)[1952] S.C.R. 597.72imposition,  the prevailing conditions at the  time,  shouldall enter into the judicial verdict."I respectfully agree with all that the learned Chief Justicesaid, but I am unable to see that this advances the  presentcontention  of the respondents.	 What is really relied	uponis  that portion of the learned Chief Justice's	 observationwhere  he  said that the prevailing conditions at  the	timeshould	be  taken in into account.  Support is	sought	alsofrom another observation of the learned Chief Justice at thesame  page  which  I have not quoted,  to  the	effect	thatreasonableness has to be decided in all the circumstances ofa  given, case.	 It is said that the  prevailing  conditionsand  the circumstances of the case would include  the  orderincreasing the home price of sugar made under the  EssentialCommodities Act.  I am entirely unable to agree that such  athing was in the contemplation of the learned Chief Justice.The  case before him was completely different.	He  was	 notconsidering the reasonableness of one Act by reference to anorder  made  by the Government under another.	The  learnedChief  Justice	was considering whether a  certain  Act	 hadplaced unreasonable restrictions on the fundamental right toform  associations.   The Act had given the  Government	 theright  to declare an association an unlawful association  oncertain	 specified  grounds.  In  holding  the	restrictionsimposed	 by the Act unreasonable, the learned Chief  Justiceobserved at p. 608, " The formula of subjective satisfactionof the Government or of its officers, with an Advisory Boardthrown	in to review the materials on which  the  Governmentseeks to override a basic freedom guaranteed to the citizen,may be viewed as reasonable only in very exceptional circum-stances	 and within the narrowest limits and cannot  receivejudicial  approval  as	a  general  pattern  of	  reasonablerestrictions  on  fundamental rights." I do not at  all	 seethat  the  respondents	can derive  any	 support  for  theirpresent	 contention  from anything  that  Patanjali  Sastri,C.J., said.I entirely agree that in deciding the reasonableness of	 therestrictions  imposed  by  a  statute,	all  the  prevailingconditions and all the circumstances of the case			     73have  to be considered.	 But I am wholly unable to see	thatthe  conditions or circumstances, which seem to me  to	meanthe same thing, can include that which depends solely on thearbitrary discretion or generosity or the sense of fair playof another.  That, in my view, is not permissible.  That  isnot a reasonable test.	It is not reasonable to say that thevalidity  of a statute would depend on something  which	 theexecutive  Government  may  do or undo	at  any	 time.	 Thestatute	 imposing the restrictions does not give  any  rightthat   the  Government	would  do  something  to  make	 therestrictions  reasonable.   How can such  a  restriction  bereasonable   ?	How  can  an  Act  which  is   prima   facieunreasonable-and  it  is  on that  basis  that	the  presentargument   arises-be  held  to	be  reasonable	because	  ofsomething  to which it gives no right and the  existence  ofwhich  depends	entirely  on the  choice  of  the  executiveGovernment ? Is it to be said that the restrictions  imposedby a statute are reasonable because the Government has, whenthe  question  cropped up, done something  which  makes	 therestrictions  reasonable though it was not bound to do	thatand  though it is free to undo that which it has, done ?  Tosay  that would be to say that the Act is valid because	 theGovernment  has	 for the time being chosen to  make  it	 so.This seems to me to be against all known principles of law.Furthermore,  if  the  respondents contention  was  right  astatute	 would then be legal when the Government chooses  todo a thing and illegal when it undoes it and so on from timeto  time  at the choice of the Government.   That  would  beintolerable  in any legal system.  It was said that this  isunavoidable  and  may happen in many cases.   The  followingillustration  was  given.  Suppose in  famine  conditions  astatute	 was  passed  controlling free	sale  of  foodstuff.Assume that the prevailing conditions made the	restrictionsput  on	 free  sale reasonable.	  Later,  normal  conditionsreturned  which	 made  the control  of	sales  of  foodstuffunnecessary  and  therefore  unreasonable.   The  Act  wouldthereupon  become invalid.  But further suppose	 that  aftersometime the famine conditions returned.  The1074validity  of the Act would then be restored.  Hence,  it  issaid  that there would be nothing unusual in the  Act  beingvalid  and  invalid from time to time.	But it seems  to  methat this is no analogy.  The famine conditions imagined  donot  depend on the choice of the Government.   So,  assumingthat  the appearance and disappearance of famine  conditionsfrom time to time made the Act once valid and again invalid-as  to which I do not feel called upon to say  anything	 nowthat  does  not justify the adoption of a rule	which  wouldmake  the  validity of an Act depend on the  choice  of	 theGovernment.   If fluctuating validity is the result  in	 onecase,  it  does not follow that the same  consequence  wouldoccur in' another and a totally different case.Again  the validity of the Notification enhancing  the	homeprice  seems to me to admit of grave doubt.  I find  nothingin the Essential Commodities Act nor naturally in the  Sugar(Control) Order, 1955, which would authorise the  Governmentto  increase the price simply for the sake of  recouping  tothe  manufacturers the loss caused to them by  the  impugnedAct.  I have earlier set out the relevant provisions of	 theEssential  Commodities Act.  The power to fix the  price  ofsugar  given thereby can be exercised, " for maintaining  orincreasing  the supplies of any essential commodity  or	 forsecuring  their equitable distribution and  availability  atfair prices".  That power cannot therefore be exercised	 forrecouping loss caused to a manufacturer by another Act,	 theobject of which is to earn foreign exchange.  If it is	saidthat the Notification was issued for the purposes  mentionedin  the	 Essential  Commodities	 Act,  it  becomes  at	onceapparent,  that the price fixed under it has no relation  tothe impugned Act and may have to be altered irrespective  ofthe  latter  Act.   I  find it	impossible  to	say  that  aNotification  fixing the price of sugar on different  condi-tions	can   be  taken	 into  account	 in   deciding	 thereasonableness	of  the	 impugned  Act	which  is   entirelyunconnected with these considerations.For  all  these	 reasons  I am	unable	to  agree  that	 theNotification increasing the home price can be taken75into  consideration  in deciding the reasonableness  of	 therestrictions  imposed by the impugned Act.  It follows	thatthese restrictions do cause loss to the sugar  manufacturersand there is nothing to show that the restrictions are	evenso reasonable.Then  it is said that the Indian Sugar Mills Association  ofwhich  the petitioners are said to be members,	wanted	thatarrangements  for export of sugar abroad be made and it	 wasfor  that reason that the impugned Act was passed.   It	 wassuggested  that	 the  Association agreed to  the  Act  beingpassed.	  It  is therefore contended that  the	restrictionsimposed by the Act must be presumed to be reasonable and thepetitioners  cannot be heard to say that they are not.	 Nowthe  request  by or the agreement of the Association  is  ofcourse	 not  the  request  by	or  the	 agreement  of	 thepetitioners.   The Association has no authority to bind	 thepetitioners by any request or agreement.  The fact that	 thepetitioners were members of the Association if that were so,does  not give the Association the authority.  There  is  noevidence   that	  the  petitioners  had	 assented   to	 theAssociation  making the request or the agreement.   For	 allthat  is  known the petitioners may have  been	against	 theAssociation  making  any request to the Government  to	takesteps  for  export or agreeing to the passing  of  the	Act.Therefore,  it seems to me that the petitioners' rights	 arenot  affected by anything which the Association	 might	havedone.I  think it right also to say that there is no	material  onthe  record  whatever  to lead to the  conclusion  that	 theAssociation  had agreed to the Act being passed in the	formin  which it stands.  And of course it is only the Act	withwhich we are concerned.	 It is true that the Association hadsuggested  that the Government should take steps for  exportof  sugar.   That would appear from the minutes	 of  variousmeetings  annexed  to the affidavits used on behalf  of	 theGovernment.   But  there  is nothing in	 these	minutes	 noranywhere  else in the records which would indicate that	 theAssociation wanted that sugar should be exported though thatmight put the manufacturers to a loss.	The position appearsto have been this.  In the year 1951-52 the76sugar  manufacturers  were placed in  a	 difficult  positionbecause of competition from khandsari and gur manufacturers,who  could  buy sugar cane for their manufactures at  a	 lowprice  in  the open market, while, the	sugar  manufacturerswere compelled to buy cane at prices fixed by the Governmentwhich were high.  So some of them, as appears from  Annexure"A"  to	 Shri  Jain's said  affidavit,	made  the  followingsuggestions  to	 the Government in March 1952 to  give	themrelief :" (a) The price of cane be reduced to Re. 1 per maund.(b)The	sugar manufactured from the lower priced  cane	be'frozen'  and kept as a national Reserve for Export  or	 forsuch   other  purposes	as  the	 Government   may   considerdesirable.(c)To  reduce the accumulation of stocks in the	 factoriesand  to make room for further storage, and to liquidate	 thestocks	into  cash,  serious efforts  be  made	either	fromGovernment to Government or through trade channels to exportout  at	 least	2  lakh	 tons.	 Alternatively,	 the   StateGovernments be asked to take deliveryof	 the   quantitiesfrom the factories and store them in	their own godowns.(d)  If	 there	is  any	 'Profit'  in  the  export  of	suchquantities  the	 same may be utilised either  for  giving  a'bonus'	 to  the cane growers or in lowering  the  price  ofsugar for home consumption."It   is	 clear	from  the  suggestions	thus  made  by	 themanufacturers  that  they wanted the burden on	them  to  berelieved and export at Government's cost.  In that year	 theGovernment  in fact permitted an export of 10,000  tons	 andgave  a subsidy of Rs. 2 per maund to cover the loss on	 theexport.	  Later in the same year the Government reduced	 theprice  at which the sugar manufacturers could  purchase	 thecane.In  the	 years	1952-53	 to  1955-56  India  imported  largequantities of sugar and did not export sugar at all. it alsoappears that during these years the consumption of sugar  inIndia  was much more than the production.  Hence,  obviouslythe  need  for the import.  So clearly in  these  years	 thesugar manufacturers did not need to			   77export their sugar.  The respondents do not say that  duringthese	years	the  sugar  manufacturers  had	 asked	 forarrangements for export being made. 1956-57 was the year  ofthe  Suez crisis.  In this year a substantial  quantity	 wasexported  and large profits could be made because  price  ofsugar  in some of the markets abroad had gone up due to	 thecrisis	caused by the Suez situation.  The proposition	thenis  that between 1952-53 and 1956-57 the industry was  doingvery   well  and  had  no  need	 to  ask  for	Government'sintercession to enable it to export.There  is  no evidence that in 1957-58 there was  any  over-production.    The  figures  for  this	year  in  tons	 areproduction-19,75,000,	consumption-20,14,000  and   export-50,000,	 the  figure for export being that fixed  under	 theAct.  It appears however that various representatives of theGovernment and the sugar manufacturers met and decided	uponthe idea of exporting sugar for earning foreign exchange  inGovernment's  interest and getting a foothold in  the  worldmarket	in  the	 interests of  the  manufacturers.   It	 wasrealised  that	the export would result in a  loss  but	 themanufacturers agreed to export provided they were allowed tomake up the loss from the internal market.  For this purposethe  suggestion	 made as appears from annexure	"D"  to	 theaffidavit of Shri Jain, was as follows:"  The	internal  market will be left free  as	at  present.However	 to  provide an element of stability to	 the  marketreleases for internal sale shall be regulated by  Governmentof India in active consultation with the industry."So  what  the  trade had agreed to was that  they  would  beprepared  to  export sugar provided they were left  free  torecoup	from  the  internal sales the  loss  caused  by	 theexport.	  This	is very different from agreeing to  the	 Actwhich  made  no provision for recouping the  loss  from	 theinternal sales.	 The sugar manufacturers did not approve  ofthe Act, being con. tent to depend on the Government's senseof fair play to relieve the hardship caused by it.78There remains one other contention to deal with.  It is saidthat  the restrictions are reasonable since they  result  instabilising the sugar industry.	 Apart from saying that	 theAct would stabilise the sugar industry,	 the affidavits usedon  behalf of the respondents do not show how that would  bedone  or that there was any need for it.  From what  I	haveearlier	 stated it does not appear to me that  the  industryneeded	any stabilisation.  The figures given  earlier	showthat   production  has	always	been  less   than   internalconsumption, excepting for the year 1951-52.  But it appearsfrom one of the annexures to the affidavit of Shri Jain thateven  then the difficulty was only temporary.  It  is  therestated : "  Again  in 1952-53 it was decided to export upto  2	lakhtons.	But only about 10,000 tons could be exported  as  inthe  meantime  there was an appreciable rise  in  the  sugarprices	and  the  surplus stock was  consumed  in  the	homemarket."The estimated figures for the year 1958-59 in tons appear tobe as follows: production-- 19,00,000 consumption-21,00,000,export-1,00,000.   It  would  thus  appear  that  the  sugarindustry in India has always been stable and did not requireany export to make it stable.What I think however puts the matter beyond doubt is s. 4 ofthe  Act.  Under that section, in fixing the total  quantityof  sugar to be exported in any season regard is to  be	 hadonly  to  the  quantity available  in  India,  the  quantityrequired  for  consumption  in India and  the  necessity  ofearning foreign exchange.  So in deciding the quantity to beexported  no question of stabilising the industry or  pricesarises.	  Again,  it  is  not  out  of	the  excess  of	 theproduction  over  the internal consumption  alone  that	 theexports are to be made.	 In fact there has never really beenany  excess  of production  over  consumption  requirements.Indeed	it  is plain that if sufficient sugar were  left  tomeet  the home consumption, then the increased	price  wouldnot help the industry to recoup the loss.  If supplies	were,adequate to meet the demand -the price cannot be forced up.80price  fixed  for  sugar-cane,	manufacturing  cost,  taxes,reasonable  margin of profit for producer and/or trade,	 andany incidental charges.	 In exercise of powers conferred  onthe Central Government under s. 3 of the said Act and el.  5of   the  said	order,	the  Central  Government  issued   anotification  dated  July 30, 1958,  fixing  the  ex-factoryprice  for  Indian sugar Standard (ISS) D-29 grade.   A	 fewdays  before  the said order was issued i.e.,  on  June	 27,1958, the Central Government promulgated an Ordinance calledthe   Sugar   Export  Promotion	 Ordinance,   and   it	 wassubsequently  converted	 into  an Act (30  of  1958),  whichreceived the assent of the President on September 16,  1958.It  is said that the Central Government in fixing the  pricefor sugar produced during the season 1957-58, in vacuum	 pansugar factories situate in the areas specified in the  orderhad taken into account the possible loss the exporters mightincur by reason of the application of the provisions of	 theimpugned  Act.	 Shri  K. P. Jain,  Chief  Director  in	 theDirectorate  of	 Sugar	& Vanaspati, Ministry  of  Food	 andAgriculture (Department of Food), in his affidavit says thatthe  ex-factory	 ice of sugar per maund fixed  by  the	saidorder was priemade up of the following items:Average cost of productionincluding margin of profit.		Rs. 22-91Excise duty.				Rs. 10-70Cane cess.				Rs.1-89Loss on exports.		   Rs.	0-50				       ------------	  Total				Rs.36-00				       -------------It  is explained therein that the factories are expected  torealise actually on their internal. sales Rs. 22-91 as theircost  of production including margin of profit and Rs.	0-50to  cover losses of export which work out  to  approximatelyRs. 10, per maund of sugar exported.  For every one maund ofsugar exported, the factories have for sale in the  internalmarket	20 maunds of sugar, and on this, on account  of	 theprice fixed, they would realise 0-50 nP. per maund i.e.,  on20 maunds Rs. 10, which covers the export loss.	 The  effectof the			     79I therefore come to the conclusion that the Act which  makesthe petitioners suffer a loss on the sale of a part of theirproduce	 imposes  a restriction on their right to  carry  ontheir  business	 which cannot in the circumstances  of	thiscase be said to be reasonable and is therefore invalid.I  may	also  mention  that  the  learned  coursel  for	 thepetitioners  had  taken	 certain  other	 objections  to	 thevalidity  of  the Act but in the view that  I  have  earlierindicated  I  do not consider it necessary  to	discuss	 theother objections.I would allow the petitions with costs.SUBBARAO  J.  -	 I have had the advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment prepared by my learned brother, Hidayatullah, J.  Iagree  with his conclusion but would prefer to give  my	 ownreasons.  The only justification for me to write a  separatejudgment  is my inability to persuade myself to	 agree	withone  of	 the  reasons given by	Hidayatullah,  J.,  for	 hisconclusion.   That  reason  involves  a	 principle  of	far-reaching  importance, namely, whether, in  ascertaining	 thereasonableness	of  restrictions imposed by a statute  on  afundamental  right,  it	 is  permissible  to  rely  upon   anotification  issued  by  Government in	 exercise  of  powerconferred on it by another Act unconnected with the impugnedone.Before	I  embark upon the merits of the case  it  would  beconvenient  at the outset to clear the ground by  expressingmy  view on the said question.	The facts of the  case	havebeen fully stated by my learned brother in his judgment, andI need not restate them except to notice a few relevant	 andmaterial facts.	 The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (Act 10of  1955),  was	 enacted for the purpose  mentioned  in	 thepreamble  to that Act.	In exercise of the powers  conferredby  s. 3 of the said Act, the Central Government  issued  anorder  dated  August 27, 1955, called  the  Sugar  (Control)Order,	1955.	Under r. 5 of the said	order,	the  CentralGovernment is empowered, inter alia, to fix the price or themaximum	 price at which any sugar may be sold or  delivered,having regard to the price or minimum81said order is that the possible loss to the sugar  exportersis  off-set by the fact that they can recoup their  loss  intheir internal trade.The   learned	Attorney-General  sought  to   justify	 therestrictions  imposed  by the impugned Act  on	the  ground,among others, that the Court should rely upon the said orderin  determining	 whether  the restrictions  imposed  by	 theimpugned Act are reasonable within the meaning of Art. 19 ofthe  Constitution. in support of this contention, he  reliedupon the decision of this Court in State of Madras v. V.  G.Row  (1).   That decision was concerned	 with  the  questionwhether	 s.  15(2)(b) of the Indian Criminal  Law  AmendmentAct,  1908 (14 of 1908), as amended by the  Indian  CriminalLaw  Amendment (Madras) Act, 1950, was unconstitutional	 andvoid.  It was contended in that case that the said provisionfell  within  the  limits  of  constitutionally	 permissiblelegislative  abridgement of the fundamental right  conferredon  the	 citizens under Art. 19(1)(c) of  the  Constitution.The  said  limits are defined in cl. 4 of the  said  articlewhereunder:"Nothing  in sub-clause (c) of the said clause shall  affectthe  operation of any existing law in so far as it  imposes,or  prevent the States from making any law imposing,.in	 theinterests   of	 public	 order	 or   morality,	  reasonablerestrictions  on the exercise of the right conferred by	 thesaid sub-clause."In  discussing	the said question, Patanjali  Sastri,  C.J.,observed at p. 607:"  It is important in this context to bear in mind that	 thetest  of  reasonableness,  wherever  prescribed,  should  beapplied to each individual statute impugned, and no abstractstandard,  or general pattern of reasonableness can be	laiddown  as applicable to all cases.  The nature of  the  rightalleged	 to have been infringed, the underlying	 purpose  ofthe restrictions imposed, the extent and urgency of the evilsought	to  be remedied thereby, the  disproportion  of	 theimposition,  the prevailing conditions at the  time,  shouldall  enter  into the judicial verdict.	In  evaluating	suchelusive factors(1)  [1952]S.C.R. 597.and  forming their own conception of what is reasonable,  inall the circumstances of a given case, it is inevitable thatthe social philosophy and the scale of values of the  judgesparticipating in the decision should play an important part,and  the  limit	 to  their  interference  with	 legislativejudgment  in such cases can only be dictated by their  senseof  responsibility  and	 self-restraint	 and  the   soberingreflection  that  the  Constitution is meant  not  only	 forpeople	of their way of thinking but for all, and  that	 themajority of the elected representatives of the people  have,in   authorising   the	imposition  of	 the   restrictions,considered them to be reasonable."If  I may say so with respect, this passage  summarizes	 thelaw on the subject fully and precisely.	 What is  reasonablein a particular set-up may be unreasonable in a society witha  different background.  The learned Counsel  relying	uponthe  words "prevailing conditions" and the subsequent  words"in all the circumstances of a given case" contained in	 theabove observation of Patanjali Sastri, C. J., contended thatthe  said  words  were	comprehensive  enough  to  take	  innotifications issued by the Government, and, therefore,	 thesaid  order of the Central Government fixing the rate  wouldbe  one	 of the elements to be taken into  consideration  intesting	 the reasonableness of the impugned Act.  I find  itdifficult  to accept this argument.  The  learned  Attorney-General	 has not been able to place before us  any  decisionwhich went to the length of holding that such  notificationscould  enter  the  judicial verdict.  It is  true  that	 theprevailing  conditions at the. time the Act was made  shouldbe  taken  into consideration, for the	effectiveness  of  arestriction  imposed for a particular purpose  depends	uponthe  said conditions.  In a society addicted to	 opium,	 thelegislature  has to make a law imposing severe	restrictionson  the	 right to consume the same.  In a  society  where  aparticular  vice  is  rampant, any  restriction	 imposed  toeradicate that vice has to be moulded in accordance with theneeds of the time.  During times of stress and strain,	suchas war or pestilence, greater restrictions may be imposed ona fundamental right to do business in83public	 interest.    But  the	same  restriction   may	  beunreasonable  in  normal times.	 Even in normal	 times,	 theurgency of a social or economic reform, having regard to thesub-normal  standards  of human existence, may	demand	morestringent  restrictions	 on fundamental rights	than  duringtimes of prosperity.  The learned Chief Justice,  therefore,in his graphic description of the test of reasonableness, inmy  view, was not stating any thing more than  the  obvious,for   the   standard  of  reasonableness   is	inextricablyconditioned  by	 the state of society and  the	urgency	 foreradicating the evil sought to be remedied.  But I am  clearin my mind that the validity of an Act shall not be made  todepend upon another Act unconnected with the impugned Act orpower	conferred  thereunder,	which  might,  if   properlyexercised,  off-set  the evil tendency or the  vice  of	 theimpugned  Act.	If the validity of an Act is made to  dependupon  such  a foundation, a super-structure will  have	beenbuilt  on  shifting  sands.  To do that is  to	destroy	 thestability  of  legislation  and to  introduce  an  uncertainelement therein.  If two or more Acts were parts of the samescheme	or plan, to implement the same or common  objective,or  if	the  impugned  Act, though  it	was  not  originallyconceived at the time when the, earlier Act was passed,	 wasonly  an  extension  or a further step	by  legislature	 forimplementing  the  object  of  the earlier  Act	 or  if	 thelegislature   by  express  reference  incorporated  in	 theimpugned Act the provisions of the earlier Act, it would  bepermissible to rely upon the said provisions of the  earlierAct,  not  because  they  formed  part	of  the	  prevailingconditions but because either the earlier Act formed part ofthe impugned Act by reference or both of them formed part ofthe  same  legislative	plan.	The  illustrations  are	 notexhaustive,  but  they all fall under one or  other  of	 thefollowing  two categories : (i) an earlier Act is made	partof a new Act; and (ii) both Acts are parts of a	 legislativescheme	or  plan where both of them were  conceived  at	 theinception  but passed in stages, or conceived  at  differenttimes  on  the	basis of experience  gained  but  passed  infurtherance of the same scheme.	 In such cases, the test of84reasonableness	in regard to one Act may be made  to  dependupon  the impact of the other on it.  But to go beyond	thisis to destroy the stability of legislation and to  introducean  uncertain element.	To go further and to depend  upon  anotification   of  a  transitory  nature  issued  under	  anunconnected  Act is to place the statute in a  fluid  state.In  such  a  situation	its validity  would  depend  upon  astatutory  order  of  temporary duration;  it  would  changecolour with the changing attitudes of an authority empoweredto  issue the order.  It would also mean that a	 Court	willhave  to  embark  upon	a roving  search  of  all  Acts	 andnotifications which may, by design or accident, alleviate ormollify	 the evil consequences of an impugned Act.   Such  aresult cannot be contemplated.	The learned Attorney-Generalhas  not  placed before us any decision in  support  of	 hisbroad proposition; but I find in the judgment of my  learnedbrother,  Hidayatullah,	 J., a few decisions  which,  it  issaid,  go to the full length of supporting the	argument  ofthe learned Attorney-General.  I have carefully perused	 thesaid  decisions and I do not find anything said	 or  impliedtherein	 to  support the said contention.  The	decision  inAttorney-General for Alberta v. Attorney General for  Canada(1) was concerned with a conflict between the  jurisdictionsof the Dominion and Provincial Legislatures under ss. 91 and92  of the British North America Act, 1867, The	 LegislativeAssembly of the Province of Alberta passed an Act respectingthe  taxation  of  banks and  imposed  thereunder  on  everycorporation  or joint stock company other than the  Bank  ofCanada,	 incorporated  for the purpose of doing	 banking  orsavings	 bank  business in the Province, an annual  tax,  inaddition to any tax payable under any other Act.  Defaultersof payment of tax were to be visited with penalties, and thepayment	 of  either  tax or penalty  could  be	enforced  bydistress  and sale of goods and chattels, or by	 action	 forcivil debt.  It was contended before the Privy Council	thatthe proposed taxation was not in its true sense taxation  inorder to the raising(1)  (1939) A.C. 117.			   85of a revenue for Provincial purposes so as to be within	 theexclusive   legislative	  competence   of   the	  ProvincialLegislature,  but was merely part of a legislative  plan  toprevent	 the operation within the Province of those  bankinginstitutions which had been called into existence and  giventhe necessary powers there to conduct their business by	 theonly proper authority, the Parliament of the Dominion, unders.  91	of the British North America Act, and the  Bill	 wastherefore.  ultra  vires the  Provincial  Legislature.	 ThePrivy  Council accepted the contention.	 For the purpose  ofascertaining the true plan underlying the bill, the Judicialcommittee  compared  the relative  legislative	lists,	tookjudicial notice of other Acts and the object and purpose  ofthe   Act   in	question.   Having  regard   to	  the	saidconsideration,	it  came  to the conclusion that  it  was  acolorable  legislation	aimed at to  prevent  the  operationwithin	the province of the aforesaid banking  institutions.When  a	 statute  is attacked on the ground  that  it  is  acolourable  legislation, i.e., it assumed a form  apparentlyfalling within the legislative competence of the legislaturebut  in effect and substance intended to reach	institutionsbeyond	its legislative competence, it is obvious  that	 allthe   surrounding   circumstances,  including	other	actsoperating in the Province, have to be scrutinized to unravelthe  fraud on power.  This decision, in my view,  cannot  beinvoked to serve the present purpose.  Nor does the decisionof the Judicial Committee in Ladore v. Bennett (1) carry thematter	further.  The question in that case was whether	 theProvincial legislation in question did not encroach upon theexclusive  legislative power of the Dominion  Parliament  inrelation  to bankruptcy and insolvency, interest or  privaterights outside the Province.  For ascertaining the pith	 andsubstance  of the impugned statutes, the Judicial  Committeerelied upon the report of the Royal Commission appointed  toenquire	 into  municipal  and  other  affairs  of  the	fourmunicipalities in question.  At p. 477, it is observed:" Their Lordships do not cite this report as evidence of thefacts there found, but as indicating the(1)  (1939) A.C. 468.86materials  which the Government of the Province	 had  beforethem  before  promoting in the Legislature the	statute	 nowimpugned."This case does not, in my view, throw any light on  questionraised	in  the	 present case.	The decision  of  the  PrivyCouncil	 in  Pillai  v. Mudanayake(1) is also  not  of	muchrelevance to the present case.	The constitutional  validityof  the citizenship Act, 1948, of Ceylon, was questioned  inthat case.  It was contended therein that the main object ofthat  Act  was to prevent the Indian Tamils  from  obtainingcitizenship  of Ceylon and that the Act,"-as part of a	planto effect indirectly something which the legislature had  nopower  to achieve directly.  The Judicial Committee  pointedout, at p. 528 :" It must be shown affirmatively by the party challenging  astatute	 which	is  upon its face intra vires  that  it	 wasenacted as part of plan to effect indirectly something whichthe legislature had no power to achieve directly."The Judicial Committee relied upon the Indian and  PakistaniResidents  (Citizenship)  Act, No. 3 of 1949,  by  which  anIndian	Tamil would by an application obtain citizenship  byregistration  and thus protect his descendants, provided  hehad a certain residential qualification.  When objection wastaken  against	the Court relying upon the said	 Act,  theirLordships  disallowed  the  objection  with  the   followingremarks, at p. 529:" If there was a legislative plan the plan must be looked atas  a whole, and when so looked at it is evident,  in  theirLordships,  opinion, that the legislature did not intend  toprevent	 Indian Tamils from attaining  citizenship  providedthat they were sufficiently connected with the island."In this case also the reliance on a subsequent Act was	onlyto unravel the plan attributed to the Legislature of  Ceylonto  deprive the Indian Tamils of citizenship by passing	 theimpugned Act.  The said three decisions, therefore, are not,and   cannot  be,  authorities	for  the   proposition	 nowcontended.  To unravel a plan(1)  (1953) A.C. 514.87of fraud on powers, it would be necessary to scrutinize	 allthe documents, whether legislative or otherwise, which	helpto  ascertain the truth.  It may also be necessary  to	lookinto  another Act to ascertain the pith and substance of  animpugned Act.  But the same principle cannot  be invoked forascertaining the reasonableness of legislative	restrictionson fundamental rights.Now  coming  to	 the facts of the present case,	 it  is	 notsuggested that the, Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and theimpugned Act form part of one scheme of legislation.  Indeedthe Essential Commodities Act was enacted to provide in	 theinterest  of the general. public for control of	 production,supply	and  distribution  of, and trade  and  commerce	 in,certain	 commodities.	The provisions of the  Act  disclosethat  the object of the Act was to maintain or	to  increasesupplies  of  essential	 commodities  and  to  secure  theirequitable distribution and availability at fair prices.	  Itwas not one of its objects to stimulate foreign trade or  toearn  foreign  exchange.  It is said that  the	notificationissued by the Central Government under s. 3 of that Act	 andr.  5 of the Order made thereunder was to off-set  the	lossexpected to be incurred under the Ordinance, and  therefore,the  Act which supplanted the Ordinance, must be  deemed  tohave been passed on the basis of that notification.  To	 putit  in other words, though the impugned Act does not  conferany power or impose a duty on the Government to off-set	 theloss  by  fixing the rates of sugar, having  regard  to	 theexpected  loss,	 the mere fact that it could fix  the  ratesunder  some  other  Act	 would	make  the  Act	good  thoughotherwise  bad.	  If this argument be accepted	as  correct,even  if the notification was not issued, the  existence  ofsuch  a	 power	under  some other Act  would  be  enough  tovalidate the impugned Act, for, though the notification	 wasnot  issued,  it  may  be issued at  a	later  stage.	Thisargument, if accepted, would leave the impugned statute in afluid  state, its validity or otherwise depending  upon	 thechanging  attitude  of the authority concerned.	  I  cannot,therefore, accept this contention.88Let  me now consider the reasonableness of the	restrictionsimposed by the Act, excluding the notification issued by theGovernment.   It  is enacted to provide for  the  export  ofsugar  in public interest, and for the levy and	 collection,in certain circumstances, of an additional duty of excise onsugar  produced	 in India.  Section 4  enables	the  CentralGovernment,  by notification in the Official Gazette to	 fixfrom  time  to	time  the quantity of  sugar  which  may  beexported  during any period, and, in fixing  such  quantity,the Central Government should have regard to the quantity ofsugar  available in India, the quantity of sugar  which,  inits opinion, would be reasonably required for consumption inIndia, and the necessity for exporting sugar with a view  toearning foreign exchange in the public interest, In exerciseof  that  power, the Central Government should not  fix	 thequantity of sugar for export as to exceed in any year in theaggregate twenty per cent. of the quantity of sugar producedin  India  in the season ending with the  month	 of  Octoberfalling	  within  that	year.	Under  s.  5,  the   CentralGovernment  is empowered to apportion the quantity of  sugarfixed  from time to time for purposes of export under  s.  4among  the  owners in proportion to the	 quantity  of  sugarproduced,  or  likely to be produced, by  them	respectivelyduring	the season referred to above.  Section 6 enjoins  onthe  owners  of	 sugar factories to deliver  to	 the  exportagency, appointed under the Act, the sugar produced in theirfactories in such quantities, of such grade, in such manner,within	such time and at such place, as may be specified  bythe  export  agency in that behalf.  When such	delivery  ismade, the owner ceases to have any more right over the sugarexcept to receive payment therefor.  Section 8 empowers	 theexport agency, after taking delivery, to export the sugar orpermit the owner to sell the whole or any part of the exportquota in his custody at a price approved by it, on conditionthat the sale-proceeds are payable to it.' Section 9 directsthe  export agency to make payments to the owners,  who	 haddelivered  sugar  to  it, in the manner	 prescribed  by	 thesection.  Out of the total89sale-proceeds, the total expenditure incurred by the  exportagency	in respect of the sugar exported should be  deductedand  the balance should be apportioned among the  owners  inproportion  to the quantity of sugar delivered by  them	 forexport	during the year.  It also enables the export  agencyto  make payments to owners on account against documents  ofdelivery  of  sugar furnished by them, and  to	adjust	suchpayments  at the time of final payment.	 Section 10  conferspower  on the Central Government to give directions  to	 theexport	agency in discharge of its functions under the	Act.Section	 7  deals  with a situation when the  sugar  is	 notdelivered, and it reads:" S. 7(1): Where sugar delivered by any owner falls short ofthe  export quota fixed for it by any quantity	(hereinafterreferred to as the said quantity), there shall be levied andcollected  on  so  much of the	sugar  despatched  from	 thefactory	 for  consumption in India as is equal to  the	saidquantity,  a duty of excise at the rate of seventeen  rupeesper maund."Sub-s  2,3  and 4 provide for a machinery for  imposing	 thepenal  duty  and  collecting the same  from  the  defaultingowners	of  sugar.  The scheme of the Act, therefore,  is  aself-contained one.  The object is to provide for the exportof sugar in the interest of public and that object is soughtto  be achieved by fixing the quota of sugar for export	 anddistributing the same among the owners of factories, subjectto the condition that in no case it should exceed twenty percent.  of  the	quantity of sugar produced  in	India  in  aparticular  season.   The  quantity is	also  fixed  withoutdetriment to the requirements for internal consumption.	 Theapportionment  of the quota among the various  factories  isobjectively  and impartially made.  The quota delivered,  orin case the owner is allowed to sell the sugar himself,	 thesugar purchased from the sale-proceeds, is exported, and thenett  sale-proceeds  are  distributed among  the  owners  inproportion  to the quantity of sugar delivered by them.	 forexport.	 The Act enables the Government to make payments  onaccount.  The Government also retains an over-all90control	 presumably to see that no injustice is done to	 theparties	 concerned.  The short question is whether the	saidrestrictions  on the freedom of the petitioners to  acquire,hold  and  dispose  of	property,  and	carry  on  trade  orbusiness,  are reasonable within the meaning of clauses	 (5)and  (6) of Art. 19 of the Constitution.   The	restrictionsmust  have  a reasonable relation to the  object  which	 thelegislature  seeks to achieve and must not go in  excess  ofthat  object.  What is the object of the legislature  ?	 Theobject	of the legislature is to provide for the  export  ofsugar  in public interest.  It cannot be, and indeed  it  isnot, denied that at the time the Act was passed there was  asincere	 and  serious national effort to  industrialize	 ourcountry	 with  the  avowed object of  raising  the  economicstandards of our people. One of the necessary conditions forindustrializing	 our country is to start  heavy	 industries,and  that  cannot be done unless the country  earns  foreignexchange  to  enable it to import plants  for  starting	 thesame.	It  is	also self-evident that it would	 be  in	 theinterests of sugar industry to build up a foreign market forthat  commodity.   The	object of the  Act  was,  therefore,demonstrably  to serve the national interest and the  schemeevolved	 certainly had relation to the object sought  to  beachieved,  for all the provisions of the Act were  conceivedin  a genuine attempt to induce foreign export in  sugar  byco-operative  effort.	If  so, the only  objection  to	 therestrictions  imposed can be on the basis that	the  freedomwas  abridged or curtailed unduly or arbitrarily.   But	 forthe Act, the petitioners could have sold their sugar in	 theopen  market  without exceeding the rates  fixed  under	 theEssential  Commodities Act, 1955.  The correspondence  filedin  the	 ease,	marked	as annexures A,	 B  and	 C,  clearlydemonstrates  that  both the industry as well as  the  Statewere equally interested to stimulate foreign trade and buildup a foreign market.  Under the scheme embodied in the	Act,three  restrictions are imposed on the owners of  factories:(i)  They  must	 contribute to the  stock  for	export,	 notexceeding twenty per cent. of the quantity produced in their-factories; (ii) they are paid only their proportionate91share  of  the nett sale-proceeds realised  in	the  foreignmarket; and (iii) a penal cess is imposed on those who	makedefault	 in supplying the goods.  When once it	is  concededthat  the  Act serves the national interest, I find  it	 notpossible  to hold that the restrictions are unreasonable  orexcessive.   The three restrictions are really the props  ofthe  scheme.   If there was no statutory compulsion  on	 theowners	of factories to supply a reasonable fraction of	 thesugar  produced in their factories, the export agency  wouldnot  get  the requisite quantity of sugar  for	export.	  Ifthere was no provision imposing a penal cess on	 defaulters,there  would be no sanction to compel them to deliver  theirquota of sugar.	 Though the final payment was deferred	tillthe nett sale-proceeds were realised, they would be paid theprice  for the sugar supplied, at the rates fetched  in	 theforeign	 market.   It  is common case that  at	present	 theexport	trade  in  sugar  ends in loss;	 but  it  cannot  bepredicated that it will be a chronic feature and there	willnot  come  a time when the export trade in sugar  will	earnprofits.   It  may be that a better scheme might  have	beenevolved	 by the legislature or it might be  more  beneficialfrom  the  standpoint of owners of factories  if  the  Statepurchased  the	exportable  quantity  for  ready  cash	 andexported  the  same on its own account.	 But it is  not	 forthis  Court to evaluate the comparative merits of  differentschemes	 so  long it is satisfied that the  scheme  actuallyevolved stands the test of reasonabless.  The correspondencebetween	 the State and the industry shows that the  industryas  a  whole  co-operated with the State.  in  evolving	 thescheme,	 which	culminated in the passing of the  Act.	 TheState  as  well as the industry are  equally  interested  tostimulate  foreign trade and build tip foreign	market.	  Tocapture	 foreign  market  or to	 have  a  substantive  sharetherein	 is  not  an  easy task, as  it	 depends  upon	manyimponderables,	namely,	 the  availability  of	sugar,	 itsdemand,	 its comparative merits with the sugar	produced  inother	markets,  transport  facilities,  mutual   agreementrequirements, international affiliations etc.  Initial	lossmust have to be borne to get a foothold and the clear92objective  will	 have to be pursued purposefully  and  tena-ciously.  To achieve the said objective, with the consent ofthe  industry and on the basis of past experience,  the	 Actwas  passed  by	 the  Parliament.   The	 beneficial  resultsflowing	 from  the  Act are significant.   The	State  earnsforeign exchange, and a foreign market is gradually built upfor the future prosperity of the sugar industry.In  the	 affidavit  filed on behalf of	the  respondents  anattempt	 was made to support the Act on the ground  that  itwas  intended  to  serve a dual purpose	 of  stablising	 theinternal -market and earn foreign. exchange for the country.An attempt was also made to link the one with the other, butthe learned Attorney-General did not pursue that line in hisargument,  and	I have, therefore, considered  the  questiononly from the standpoint of the compelling need of the Stateto  earn  foreign exchange, and the long range	aim  of	 theindustry  to build up a foreign market.	 I  therefore,	holdthat  the  restrictions	 imposed  by  the  statute  on	 thefundamental rights of the petitioners are not arbitrary, andare  reasonable	 within	 the  meaning  of  Art.	 19  of	 theConstitution.I  agree with my learned brother, Hidayatullah, J.,  on	 theother  questions  raised in this case.	In the	result,	 thepetitions are dismissed with costs.			   ORDER.In  view of the opinion of the majority these petitions	 aredismissed with costs.93