PETITIONER:INDIRA SOHANLAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:CUSTODIAN OF EVACUEE PROPERTY,DELHI & OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/10/1955BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.AIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARADAS, SUDHI RANJANBOSE, VIVIANIMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR   77		  1955 SCR  (2)1117ACT:Evacuee	   Property-Custodian-General-Revisional     powers-Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950),ss.  2 7, 58(3)-Transaction before the passing of  the	Act-Application    for   confirmation-East	 Punjab	   Evacuees'(Administration of Property) Act, 1947 (East Punjab Act	 XIVof  1947), ss. 5-A, 5-B-Order of confirmation after  passingof Act XXXI of 1950-Revision-Validity-General Clauses Act (Xof 1897), s. 6-Applicability.HEADNOTE:The appellant, a displaced person from Lahore, was the ownerof  a  house  there and on the 10th of	October,  1947,	 shearranged  to  have  it exchanged with  certain	lands  in  avillage	 in the State of Delhi, belonging to M, an  evacuee.On  the 23rd of February, 1948, she made an  application  tothe Additional Custodian of Evacuee Property (Rural), Delhi,for confirmation of the transaction of ex-1118change	 under	 s.  5-A  of  the  East	  Punjab   Evacuees'(Administration	 of Property) Act, 1947, as amended in	1948and applied to the State of Delhi.  Under s. 5-B of the	 Actan order if passed by the Custodian or Additional  Custodianwould not be subject to appeal or revision, and would becomefinal and conclusive.  But the application was not  disposedof  until  the	20th of March, 1952, and on  that  date	 theAdditional   Custodian	passed	an  order   confirming	 theexchange.   In the meanwhile, there were changes in the	 lawrelating to evacuee property by which the East Punjab Act asapplied	 to  the  State of Delhi witness  repealed  and	 re-enacted, and ultimately Central Act XXXI of 1950 was  passedwhich,	among  other things, conferred by s.  27  revisionalpowers	on  the	 Custodian-General.   The  Custodian-Generalissued	a  notice under s. 27 to the  appellant	 and,  afterhearing	 her,  set  aside  the	order  of  confirmation	 anddirected the matter to be reconsidered by the Custodian.  Itwas   contended	 for  the  appellant  that  the	  order	  ofconfirmation  by  the Additional Custodian was not  open  torevision,   on	the  ground  that  on  the  filing  of	 theapplication in 1948 the appellant got a vested right to haveit  determined under s. 5-A, with the attribute of  finalityand   conclusiveness   under  s.  5-B  attaching   to	suchdetermination,	and  that  the	subsequent  repeal  and	 re-enactment of these provisions cannot affect such a right, inview of s. 6 of the General Clauses Act, and s. 58(3) of ActXXXI of 1950.Held  (i) that s. 6 of the General Clauses Act (X  of  1897)was  not applicable to the case, as s. 58(3) of Act XXXI  of1950  was  a  self-contained  provision	 indicative  of	 theintention to exclude the operation of s. 6;(ii)that the right to a determination with the attribute  offinality,  assuming  that such a right exist,.;,  is  not  avested right and it does not accrue until the  determinationis in fact made, when alone it becomes an existing right.Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. v. Irving ([1905] A.C. 369)and Delhi Cloth & General Mills Co. Ltd. v. Income-Tax	Com-missioner   ([1927]  I.L.R.  9	Lah.  284;  54	I.A.   421),distinguished;(iii)that  the	words  "the  repeal  shall  not	 affect	 theprevious  operation of the repealed law" in s. 58(3) of	 ActXXXI  of  1950 cannot be construed as  meaning	"the  repealshall not affect the future operation of the previous  law";and(iv)that the scheme underlying s. 58(3) is that every matterto  which the new Act applies has to be treated as  arising,and to be dealt with, under the now law except in so far  ascertain	 consequences have already ensued or acts have	beencompleted  prior to the new Act, to which it is the old	 lawthat will apply.In view of s. 58, the application of the appellant for	con-firmation  pending  on the date when Act XXXI of  1950	cameinto force, had to be dealt with and disposed of under	thisAct and the order of confirmation passed in 1952 was subjectto the revisions -power of the Custodian-General under s, 27of the said Act,1119Quaere.-  Whether a right of appeal in respect of a  pendingaction can be treated as a substantive right vesting in	 thelitigant on the commencement of the action.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 195 of 1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  20th  May,	 1953 of  the  CustodianGeneral	 of  EvacueeProperty, New Delhi in Revision No. 387-R/Judl/53.Achhru Ram, (Ganpat Rai, with him) for the appellant.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, (Porus A.Mehtaand R. H. Dhebar, with him) for respondents Nos. 1 & 2.1955.  October 28.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyJAGANNADHADAS J.-This is an appeal by special leave  againstthe order of the Custodian-General of Evacuee Property datedthe  20th  May, 1953, revising an order	 of  the  AdditionalCustodian of East Punjab, Delhi, dated the 20th March, 1952.The two questions raised before us on the facts and  circum-stances, to be stated, are (1) whether the Custodian-Generalhad the revisional power which he purported to exercise, and(2)  was  the order of the Custodian-General on	 its  meritssuch as to call for interference by this Court.The  appellant	before us, one Mrs. Indira  Sobanlal,  is  adisplaced person from Lahore.  She was the owner of a house.at  Lahore known as 5, Danepur Road.  Malik Sir	 Firoz	KhanNoon of West Pakistan owned 766 bighas of agricultural	landin a village called Punjab Khore within the State of  Delhi.An  oral exchange is said to have taken place between  thesetwo.,  of the said properties, on the 10 th  October,  1947.In  pursuance of that exchange Malik Sir Firoz Khan Noon  issaid  to  have taken possession of the Danepur	Road  House.The appellant is also said to have been put in possession ofthe  said agricultural lands in Punjab Khore  presumably  byway of attornment1120of tenants who were in actual cultivating possession of	 thelands.	 Under	section	 5-A of the  East  Punjab  Evacuees'(Administration of Property) Act, 1947 (East Punjab Act	 XIVof  1947),  as amended in 1948 and applied to the  State  ofDelhi,	such  a	 transaction required  confirmation  by	 theCustodian.   In compliance with this section  the  appellantmade  an  application  on the 23rd February,  1948,  to	 theAdditional Custodian of Evacuee Property (Rural), Delhi, forconfirmation of the above transaction of exchange and of theconsequent  transfer to her of the property in	agriculturalland.  In view of certain rules which came into force  laterand which prescribed that the application was to be in a setform furnishing certain particulars, the appellant filed  anamended application dated the 14th August, 1948,  furnishingthe required particulars.  This application was not disposedof by the Additional Custodian, for reasons not clear on therecord, until the 20th March, 1952.  On that date he  passedan  order confirming the exchange.  Meanwhile,	however,  a,proposal  was  put  up to the Additional  Custodian  by	 hisRevenue Assistant to allot agricultural lands of the villagePunjab Khore, including those covered by this exchange, to anumber of refugee-cultivators.	The proposal was approved bythe  Additional	 Custodian  on	the  12th  June,  1949.	  Inpursuance  thereof a detailed allotment was made  to  twentysix  individual allottees on the 27th October, 1949.   Thereis  a  report of the Rehabilitation Patwari dated  the	27thFebruary  1950,	 on the record showing	that  the  allotteesentered	 into  possession of the land and  cultivated  theirrespective lands and settled down in the village.  After theorder  confirming the exchange was passed by the  AdditionalCustodian  on the 20th March, 1952, the appellant  filed  anapplication  on	 the 5th May, 1952, asking to be  placed  inpossession,  and for a warrant of delivery of possession  tobe  issued against the various allottees and tenants of	 theland.  The Naib Tehsildar recommended that possession may begiven to the appellant and that the Patwari may be  informedaccordingly to take the necessary action in the matter.	 Butit does1121not appear from the record whether this was done, or whetherpossession  was in fact delivered.  At this stage, a  noticeunder  section 27 of the Administration of Evacuee  PropertyAct,  1950 (Central Act XXXI of 1950), appears to have	beenissued	to  the appellant by the Custodian-General  to	showcause  why the order of the Additional Custodian  dated	 the20th  March, 1952, confirming the exchange and	the  furtherorders	dated  the  20th and 28th  July,  1952,	 sanctioningmutation and other consequential and incidental orders	madein  connection	therewith  be not set  aside.	This  noticeappears	 to  have been issued asking the appellant  to	showcause  on the 4th May, 1953.  The case was adjourned to	 the12th May, 1953, at the request of counsel for the  appellantand  thereafter a more detailed notice dated the  14th	May,1953,  was issued setting out the various grounds  on  whichthe  previous  orders  were sought to  be  set	aside.	 Thelearned Custodian-General passed the order now under  appealon   the  20th	May,  1953,  setting  aside  the  order	  ofconfirmation.  He directed the Custodian to decide the	caseafter  giving notice to all those who might be	affected  bythe  confirmation of this transaction.	As the earlier	partof  his order shows, the reference to the  persons  affectedwas  to	 those who were allotted the lands  in	question  byvirtue of the order of the Additional Custodian of the	year1949 above referred to.To appreciate the first question that has been raised as  tothe  validity  of the exercise of revisional powers  by	 theCustodian-General on the above facts, it is necessary to setout  the  course of the relevant legislative  measures	fromtime to time.To  meet the unprecedented situation of sudden migration  ofvast  sections	of  population on a large  scale  from	WestPunjab	to East Punjab and vice versa, leaving most  of	 theproperties   which  they  had,	moveable   and	 immoveable,agricultural and nonagricultural, the concerned	 Governmentsbad  to	 take  wide  legislative powers	 to  deal  with	 thesituation, to set up the necessary administrative machinery,and to evolve and give effect to their policiesin regard thereto from time to time.  The earliest of  theselegislative  measures  so far as we are concerned,  was	 theEast Punjab Evacuees (Administration of Property) Act,	1947(East Punjab Act XIV of 1947), which came into force on	 the12th December, 1947.  This Act was amended by the East	Pun-jab  Evacuees'	(Administration	 of  Property)	 (Amendment)Ordinance,  1948 (East Punjab Ordinance No. II of 1948)	 andlater by East Punjab Evacuees' (Administration of  Property)(Amendment) Act, 1948, (East Punjab Act XXVI of 1948), whichinserted  two  new sections, 5-A and 5-B I  prescribing	 therequirement of confirmation Of transactions relating to eva-cuee  property and providing a right of appeal	or  revisiontherefrom.  These sections were specifically made applicableto  transactions  on or after the 15th	August,	 1947.	 Theabove Punjab Legislative measures were extended to the Stateof Delhi by Central Government notifications under the DelhiLaws  Act, dated the 29th December, 1947, the 28th  January,1948, and the 22nd April, 1948, respectively.  In so far  asthese  measures	 applied to Chief  Commissioners'  Provincesthey were repealed by the Administration of Evacuee Property(Chief	Commissioners' Provinces) Ordinance, 1949,  (CentralOrdinance  No. XII of 1949) which came into force so far  asDelhi is concerned on the 13th June, 1949.  This  Ordinance,in its turn, was repealed and a fresh Central Ordinance cameinto force in its place, applicable to all the Provinces  ofIndia except Assam and West Bengal.  That was Administrationof Evacuee Property Ordinance., 1949, (Central Ordinance No.XXVII  of 1949), which came into force on the 18th  October,1949.	This Central Ordinance in its turn was repealed	 andreplaced by the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950(Central Act XXXI of 1950) which came into force on the 17thApril, 1950.It  is	necessary  to notice at this stage  that  until	 theCentral	 Ordinance  XXVII of 1949 was  passed,	the  EvacueeProperty law was regulated by the respective Provincial Actsand  were -under the respective Provincial  administrations.Central Ordinance1123No.  XXVII  of	1949  provided for  a  centralised  law	 andcentralised  administration which was continued	 by  CentralAct No. XXXI of 1950.  One of the main steps taken for	suchcentralised  administration  was  to create  the  office  ofCustodian-General  with	 powers of appeal  and	revision  asagainst	 the orders of Provincial Custodians.  Section 5  ofthe  Central  Ordinance	 No. XXVII of  1949  authorised	 theCentral Government to appoint a Custodian-General of EvacueeProperty in India for the purpose of discharging the  dutiesimposed	 on  him  by  or  under	 the  Ordinance,  while	 theappointment of Provincial Custodians, Additional, Deputy  orAssistant   Custodians,	 was  still  left  to  the   variousProvincial Governments.	 These provisions were continued  bysections  5 and 6 of Central Act XXXI of 1950.	 As  regardsthe  transactions by evacuees relating to evacuee  property,the first legislative interference in East Punjab and  Delhiappears	 to  have  been by virtue of  East  Punjab  Evacuees(Administration	 of Property) (Amendment')  Ordinance,	1948(East  Punjab Ordinance No. II of 1948) and the East  PunjabEvacuees' (Administration of Property) (Amendment) Act, 1948(East  Punjab  Act  XXVI of 1948)  which  inserted  two	 newsections  5-A and 5-B into the East Punjab Act XIV of  1947.The said sections were as follows:"5-A.  (1)  No sale, mortgage, pledge,	lease,	exchange  orother  transfer	 of  any interest or right in  or  over	 anyproperty made by an evacuee or by any person in anticipationof  his	 becoming  an evacuee, or by the  agent,  assign  orattorney  of  the evacuee or such person, on  or  after	 thefifteenth  day of August, 1947, shall be effective so as  toconfer	any  rights  or	 remedies on  the  parties  to	suchtransfer  or on any person claiming under them unless it  isconfirmed by the Custodian.(2)  An application for confirming such transfer may be madeby any person claiming thereunder or by any person  lawfullyauthorised by him.(3)  The  Custodian shall reject any application made  afterthe thirty first day of March, 1948 or after1421124the  expiration of two months from the date the	 transactionwas entered into, whichever is later.(4)  The  Custodian  shall hold a summary  enquiry  into  anapplication, which is not rejected under subsection (3)	 andmay decline to confirm the transaction if it appears to	 theCustodian that-(a) the transaction was not a bona fide one forvaluable consideration; or(b)  the  transaction  is in the opinion  of  the  Custodianprejudicial to the prescribed objects; or (c) for any  otherreason,	 to  be	 given	by the	Custodian  in  writing,	 thetransaction ought not to be confirmed.(5)If the Custodian confirms the transaction, he may confirmit  unconditionally or subject to such conditions and  termsas he may consider proper.(6)The	Custodian,  if the order is not	 pronounced  in	 thepresence  of the applicant, shall forthwith give  notice  inwriting	 to the applicant of any order passed by  him  undersub-sections (3), (4) or (5)." 5-B.	If the original order under section 5-A is passed byan  Assistant or Deputy Custodian of Evacuee  Property,	 anyperson aggrieved by such order may appeal within sixty	daysfrom  the  date of -the order to the Custodian	of  ]EvacueeProperty  who may dispose of the appeal himself or  make  itover  for  disposal to the Additional Custodian	 of  EvacueeProperty;  and subject only to the decision on such  appeal,if  any,  the  order  passed by	 the  Assistant	 or  'DeputyCustodian of Evacuee Property, or any original or  appellateorder  passed  by the Custodian or Additional  Custodian  ofEvacuee Property shall be final and conclusive".It  will  be  seen that	 these	two  sections-enjoined	thattransfers by an evacuee or intending evacuee relating to hisproperty  from	and after the 15th  August,  1947,  requiredconfirmation  and provided for appeal or revision  from	 theorders passed on applications therefor and subject  thereto,such orders were made final and conclusive.  The requirementas to confirmation has been substantially continued in	moreor less the same form by sections 25, 38 and 40 respectivelyof1125the  successive	 legislative  measures	with  certain  modi-fications which are not material for this case.	 But so	 faras  the appealability or revisability of an order passed  onan  application for confirmation is concerned.,	 there	havebeen  changes  from:  time to time.  It will  be  seen	fromsection	 5-B of the East Punjab Act, XIV of 1947, as  quotedabove,	that any original order passed by the  Custodian  orAdditional  Custodian is not subject to appeal	or  revisionand it is specifically declared to be final and	 conclusive.Central	 Ordinance  No.	 XII of 1949 by	 section  30(1)	 (b)thereof provided for an appeal to the High Court against  anoriginal  order	 of a Custodian or Additional  Custodian  orauthorised  Deputy Custodian but there was no provision	 forrevision of such an order.  Under the Central Ordinance	 No.XXVII  of  1949 the position  was  substantially  different.Section	 24 thereof, inter alia, provided that.	 any  personaggrieved   by	an  order  made	 under	section	 38   (whichcorresponds  to the previous section 5-A of the East  PunjabAct  XIV of 1947) may prefer an appeal in ,such	 manner	 andwithin	such  time as may be prescribed, to  the  Custodian-General	 where	the original order has been  passed  by	 theCustodian,  Additional	Custodian or  an  Authorised  DeputyCustodian.   Section  27  thereof  provided  for  revisionalpowers	of  the Custodian-General but  it  was	specificallyconfined  to appellate orders and there was no	power  giventhereunder  for	 revision  by the  Custodian-General  of  anoriginal  order passed by the Custodian.  But under  CentralAct XXXI of 1950 which repealed and replaced this  Ordinancethe  position  became different.  The provision	 for  appealunder  section 24 thereof was virtually the same as  before,in so far as it is relevant here.  But as regards  revision,however,  section 27 of the Act provided for the  revisionalpowers of the Custodian-General in the following terms:"27.  (1) The Custodian-General may at any time,  either  onhis own motion or on application made to him in this behalf,call for the record of any proceeding in which any  districtjudge  or Custodian has passed an order for the	 purpose  ofsatisfying him-1126self  as to the legality or propriety of any such order	 andmay pass such order in relation thereto as he thinks fit:Provided that the Custodian-General shall not pass an  orderunder  this  sub-section prejudicial to any  person  withoutgiving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.    ....................................."The  question  relating to the validity	 of  the  revisionalpowers	exercised  by the Custodian-General in	the  presentcase   arises  with  reference	to  the	  provisions   abovementioned.It  is	not disputed that Malik Sir Firoz Khan Noon  was  anevacuee.   Nor is it disputed that this property  in  PunjabKhore  which  was  the subject-matter of  the  exchange	 wasevacuee	 property.   Though  the exchange  in  question	 wasalleged to have taken place on the 10th October, 1947, at  atime  when  there  was no restriction  against	any  evacueedealing with the property he left behind, it is indisputablethat  section 5-A of the East Punjab Act XIV of	 1947  whichhas  been  specifically	 made retrospective  from  the	15thAugust, 1947, operates in respect of the present transactionalso.	It, therefore, requires confirmation under the	saidsection	  and  under  the  corresponding  sections  in	 thesubsequent  legislative measures in this behalf.  It was  incompliance with this requirement that the appellant made  anapplication for confirmation on the 23rd February. 1948, andthat a subsequent amended application was filed on the	14thAugust,	 1948.	It is these applications that were  disposedof  on	the 20th March, 1952, by the  Additional  Custodian,Delhi, by an order confirming the exchange, which has  sincebeen revised by the Custodian-General on the 20th May, 1953.The main contention of the learned counsel for the appellantis to  the powers which are vested in the  Custodian-Generalto revise the original orders of the Custodian or AdditionalCustodian  under section 27 of the Central Act XXXI of	1950are  not applicable to an order passed by the  Custodian  orAdditional1127Custodian on an application made long prior to the time whenthe  office of the Custodian-General was set up and  he	 wasclothed	 with powers of revision.  It is urged that  on	 thedate when the application for confirmation was first made onthe  23rd February, 1948, an order passed under section	 5-Aby  the Custodian or Additional Custodian is final and	con-clusive	 under section 5-B.  It is strongly -urged that	 thesubsequent  repeal  and	 re-enactment  of  these  provisionscannot affect the right vested in the appellant to obtain  afinal and conclusive order from the Custodian or  AdditionalCustodian on her application for confirmation.	Section 6 ofthe  General Clauses Act and the Privy Council case  in	 theColonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. v. Irving(1) were relied onin support of this contention.	To determine the validity ofthis contention, it is necessary to trace the course of	 thevarious	 relevant  statutory provisions from  time  to	timewhich repealed the prior corresponding legislative  measuresand to determine the effect thereof.The East Punjab Act XIV of 1947 was replaced by the  CentralOrdinance  No. XII of 1949 relating to Chief  Commissioners'Provinces.  Section 40 thereof which repealed the prior	 Actwas as follows:-"40.  (1)  The	East  Punjab  Evacuees'	 (Administration  ofProperty)  Act,	 1947 (East Punjab Act XIV of 1947),  as  inforce in Ajmer-Merwara and Delhi, is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any  actiontaken  in  the exercise of any power conferred	by  the	 Actaforesaid  shall,  in relation to the  Provinces  of  Ajmer-Merwara	 and Delhi, be deemed to have been done or taken  inthe exercise of the powers conferred by this Ordinance,	 andany penalty` incurred or proceeding commenced under the saidAct shall be deemed to be a penalty incurred, or  proceedingcommenced under this Ordinance as if this Ordinance were  inforce  on  the day when such thing was done,  action  taken,penalty incurred or proceeding commenced".When this Ordinance was in turn repealed by(1)  [1905] A.C. 369.1128Central	 Ordinance No. XXVII of 1949, the repealing  section55 was as follows:"55.  (1) The Administration of Evacuee Property  Ordinance,1949 (XII of 1949), as in force in the Chief  Commissioners'Provinces is here by repealed.(2)............................(3)Notwithstanding  the	 repeal	 by this  Ordinance  of	 theAdministration	of Evacuee Property Ordinance, 1949,  or  ofany corresponding law, anything done or any action taken  inthe exercise of any power conferred by that Ordinance or lawshall  be deemed to have been done or taken in the  exerciseof  the powers conferred by this Ordinance, and any  penaltyincurred or proceeding commenced under that Ordinance or lawshall  be  deemed  to be a penalty  incurred  or  proceedingcommenced under this Ordinance as if this Ordinance were  inforce on the day on which such thing was done, action taken,penalty incurred or proceeding commenced".Ordinance  No.	XXVII of 1949 was in its  turn	repealed  byCentral	 Act  XXXI  of 1950.  This Act	was  amended  by  anOrdinance and later by an Act of, the same year.  Section 58is  the repealing provision of this Act as so amended.	 Thematerial portion thereof is as follows:"58.  (1) The Administration of Evacuee Property  Ordinance,1949 (XXVII of 1949) is hereby repealed.(2).............................(3)The	repeal by this Act of the Administration of  EvacueeProperty  Ordinance, 1949 (XXVII of 1949).......  shall	 notaffect the previous operation thereof, and subject  thereto,anything  done	or any action taken in the exercise  of	 anypower  conferred by or under that Ordinance shall be  deemedto  have  been done or taken in the exercise of	 the  powersconferred by or under this Act, as if this Act were in forceon  the	 day  on which such thing was  done  or	 action	 wastaken".Thus in the transition of the Evacuee Property law1129relating  to Delhi, from the East Punjab Act XIV of 1947  tothe present Central Act XXXI of 1950, there have been  threerepeals.   The first two repealing provisions are in  almostidentical  terms but the third is somewhat  different.	 Thedifference  is	in two respects. (1) The  provision  in	 theprevious  repealing sections that "any penalty	incurred  orproceeding commenced under the repealed law shall be  deemedto  be a penalty incurred or proceeding commenced under	 thenew law as if the new law were in force on the day when	 thepenalty	 was  incurred	or  proceeding	commenced"  is	 nowomitted. (2) The provision that "anything done or any actiontaken in exercise of any power conferred by the previous lawshall  be deemed to have been done or taken in	exercise  ofthe  powers conferred by the new law as if the new law	werein  force  on  the day when such thing was  done  or  actiontaken"	is continued.  But it is specifically provided	thatthis  is subject to the repeal not affecting  the  "previousoperation of the repealed law" which in the context  clearlymeans the previous operation of the repealed law in  respectof  "anything done or any action taken".  The question	thusfor  consideration  is what is the result brought  about  bythese provisions.Before	proceeding  to	determine it,  it  is  desirable  toconsider whether section 6 of the General Clauses Act can berelied on.  The position as regards section 6 of the GeneralClauses Act in the case of repeal and re-enactment has	beenconsidered  by	this  Court  in State  of  Punjab  v.  MoharSingh(') and laid down as follows at page 899:"Whenever   there   is	a  repeal  of  an   enactment,	 theconsequences  laid down in section 6 of the General  ClausesAct  will  follow  unless, as the  section  itself  says,  adifferent intention appears.  In the case of a simple repealthere  is  scarcely any room for expression  of	 a  contraryopinion.    But	 when  the  repeal  is	followed  by   freshlegislation on the same subject we would undoubtedly have tolook  to  the provisions of the new Act, but  only  for	 thepurpose	 of determining -whether they indicate	a  differentintention.(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 893, 899.1130The  line  of  enquiry would be, not  whether  the  new	 Actexpressly keeps alive old rights and liabilities but whetherit  manifests  an  intention to	 destroy  them.	  We  cannottherefore subscribe to the broad proposition that section  6of the General Clauses Act is ruled out when there is repealof an enactment followed by a fresh legislation.  Section  6would  be  applicable  in such cases  also  unless  the	 newlegislation manifests an intention incompatible with or con-trary  to  the	provisions  of	the  section.	Such  incom-patibility would have to be ascertained from a considerationof all the relevant provisions of the newlaw...............".In the present case sub-section (3) of section 58 of CentralAct  XXXI  of 1950 purports to indicate the effect  of	thatrepeal,	 both  in  negative  and  in  positive	terms.	 Thenegative portion of it relating to "the previous  operation"of  the	 prior	Ordinance appears to have  been	 taken	fromsection 6(b) of the General Clauses Act, while the  positiveportion adopts a "deeming" provision quite contrary to	whatis  contemplated  under	 that section.	 Under	the  GeneralClauses	 Act the position, in respect of matters covered  byit, would have to be determined as if the repealing Act	 hadnot been passed, while under section 58 of Central Act	XXXIof  1950,  the position-so far as the  positive	 portion  isconcerned-has  to be judged as if the repealing Act were  inforce at the earlier relevant date.  Therefore where, as  inthis case, the repealing section which purports to  indicatethe  effect of the repeal on previous matters, provides	 forthe  operation of the previous law in part and	in  negativeterms, as also for the operation of the new law in the otherpart  and in positive terms, the said provision may well  betaken  to be self-contained and indicative of the  intentionto  exclude  the  application of section 6  of	the  GeneralClauses	 Act.	We are, therefore, of the opinion  that	 thesaid section cannot be called in aid in this case.Now, as to the meaning of section 58(3) of Central Act	XXXIof  1950,  it must be admitted that this is  not  free	fromdifficulty.  This kind of provision in a1131repealing  Act appears rather unusual.	Learned counsel	 forthe  appellant	urges  that the	 positive  portion  of	thisprovision,  i.e.,  "anything  done or any  action  taken  inexercise  of any power conferred by or under, the  Ordinanceshall  be deemed to have been done or taken in the  exerciseof the powers conferred by or under this Act as if this	 Actwere  in  force on the day on which such thing was  done  oraction	was  taken" applies only  to  purely  administrativematters	 and  that his case falls within the  scope  of	 thefirst  portion,	 viz.,	"the  repeal............  shall	 notaffect the previous operation of the (repealed)	 Ordinance".His  contention	 is that the application  for,	confirmationwhich  was made by the appellant in 1948 and which  remainedpending	 until	Act  XXXI  of  1950  came  into	 force	 andsuperseded the earlier legislation in this behalf, had to bedisposed  of in accordance with sections 5-A and 5-B of	 theEast  Punjab Act XIV of 1947, as amended in 1948;  that	 theorder of confirmation passed by the Additional Custodian  insuch  a	 pending  application  was not	open  to  appeal  orrevision but became final and conclusive.  It is urged	thaton the filing of the application in 1948, the appellant	 gota vested right to have it determined under section 5-A	withthe  attribute of finality and conclusiveness under  section5-B  attaching	to  such determination.	  According  to	 thelearned	 counsel this follows from the "previous  operation"of the repealed law and is in consonance with the  principlelaid  down by the Privy Council in Colonial  Sugar  RefiningCo.  Ltd.  v.  Irving(1).   It	appears	 to  us	 that  thesecontentions  are unsustainable. Colonial Sugar Refining	 Co.Ltd.  v. Irving(1) relates to the case of a right of  appealagainst an order passed or to be passed in a pending action.Their  Lordships treated the right of appeal to	 a  superiortribunal  in a pending action as an existing right and	heldthat  the  suitor cannot be retrospectively deprived  of  itexcept	by express words or by necessary implication.	Thisdoctrine was affirmed by the Privy Council in Delhi Cloth  &General Mills Co. Ltd.(1)  [1905] A.C. 369.1431132v.Income  Tax-Commissioner, Delhi(1) in its  application  tothe converse case in the following terms:"Their Lordships can have no doubt that provisions which, ifapplied	 retrospectively,  would deprive of  their  existingfinality  orders  which, when the statute came	into  force,were final, are provisions which touch existing rights".It may be noticed that in the case in Delhi Cloth &  GeneralMills Co. Ltd. v. Income-Tax Commissioner(1), the orders  ofthe High Court from which appeals were sought to be filed tothe Privy Council were dated the 6th January, 1926 and	12thJanuary,  1926.	 As the Indian Income-tax Act stood  at	 thetime  and  according  to the interpretation  of	 section  66thereof	 by  the Privy Council in Tata Iron & Steel  Co.  v.Chief  Revenue Authority, Bombay(2) there was no  appeal  tothe  Privy Council.  The legislature by an amendment of	 theIncome-tax  Act,  which came into force on  the	 1st  April,1926,  inserted	 therein section 66-A and gave	a  right  ofappeal	against	 such orders as provided therein.   In	thissituation the Privy Council repelled the contention that thelitigant  could	 avail	himself	 of  the  new  provision  bypointing  out  the  finality  of the  orders  fought  to  beappealed  against and referring to it as an existing  right.This is obviously so because finality attached to them., themoment	orders	were passed, prior to the new Act.   In	 thepresent	 case,	the position is different.  The	 action	 wasstill pending when Central Act XXXI of 1950 came into force.No  order  was passed which could attract the  attribute  offinality  and conclusiveness under section 5-B of  the	EastPunjab	Act  XIV of 1947.  Further the possibility  of	suchfinality was definitely affected by the repealing  provisionin  Central Ordinance No. XII of 1949 and Central  OrdinanceNo.  XXVII  of	1949, which  specifically  provided  that  apending	 action was to be deemed to be an  action  commencedunder  the new Ordinance as if it were in force at the	timeand  therefore	required  to  be  continued  under  the	 newOrdinances.  Each of these Ordinances provided for(1)   [1927] I. L.R. 9	Lahore 284.(2)  (1923] L.R. 50 I.A. 212.1133appeal against such an order and the second of them providedfor  the exercise of revisional power against  an  appellateorder  of the Custodian.  Learned counsel for the  appellantcontends  that,	 even so, the finality	and  conclusiveness,which would have attached to an order made under section  5-A, if made before Ordinance XII of 1949 was promulgated, wasaffected  only	to  the extent of its being  subject  to  anappeal	and  not  to revision.	But once  the  attribute  offinality  in  respect  of  such	 an  order  is	affected  bysubsequent  legislation,  it  does  not	 appear	 to  be	  ofconsequence  that it was affected first by a  provision	 forappeal and later by provisions for appeal and revision.	  Itis  difficult  to see that such provisions,  in	 those	cir-cumstances, are anything more than alterations in procedure.However	 this  may be, it appears to be clear that  while  aright  of  appeal  in  respect	of  a  pending	action	 mayconceivably be treated as a substantive right vesting in thelitigant on the commencement of the action-though we do	 notso  decide-no  such vested right to obtain  a  determinationwith  the attribute of finality can be predicated in  favourof a litigant on the institution of the action.	 By the veryterms  of  section  5-B	 of East Punjab	 Act  XIV  of  1947,finality attaches to it on the making of the order.  Even ifthere  be, in law, any such right at all as the right  to  adetermination  with the attribute of finality, it can in  nosense  be  a vested or accrued right.  It  does	 not  accrueuntil  the  determination is in "fact made, when  alone	 theright  to  finality becomes an existing right  as  in  DelhiCloth	and   General	Mills	Co.   Ltd.   v.	   IncomeTaxCommissioner(1).  We are, therefore, of the opinion that theprinciple of Colonial Sugar Refining Co.  Ltd. v.  Irving(2)cannot	be invoked in support of a case of the kind  we	 aredealing with.Nor  can  this	be brought under the  ambit  of	 the  phrase"previous  operation of the repealed law".  What in  effect,learned	 counsel for the appellant contends for is  not	 the"previous  operation  of the repealed law" but	the  "futureoperation of the previous(1) [1927] I.L.R. 9 Lahore 284,(2) [1905] A.C. 369.1134law".	There is no justification for such  a  construction.Besides,  if  in respect of the pending application  in	 thepresent case, the previous repealed law is to continue to beapplicable  by virtue of the first portion of section  58(3)the  question arises as to who are the authorities that	 candeal  with  it.	 The application can be dealt  with  by	 theCustodian  and	on appeal by the Custodian-General  only  asfunctioning  under the previous law.  But as such  Custodianor Custodian-General they have disappeared by virtue of	 therepeal.	  It  is only the second portion  of  section  58(3)which  continues them as though the appointments  were	madeunder  the  new	 Act  a position  which	 could	scarcely  becontroverted.	To  the extent of the future  operation,  ifany, of the repealed law they can have no function.  Indeed,a  comparison  of the wording of section 58 of Act  XXXI  of1950  with the wording of section 6 of the  General  ClausesAct would show that if the legislature intended either	thatpending -proceedings were to be continued under the previouslaw  or	 that  anything in the nature  of  vested  right  offinality of determination or some right akin thereto was  toarise  in respect of such pending proceedings, the  negativeportion	 of section 58(3) would not have stopped short	withsaving	only the "previous operation" of the  repealed	law.It  would  have borrowed from out of some  portions  of	 theremaining sub-sections (c), (d) and (e) of section 6 of	 theGeneral	 Clauses Act, and provided in express terms for	 thecontinuance  of the previous law in respect of pending	pro-ceedings.  Obviously no particular sub-section of section  6of the General Clauses Act could be borrowed in toto as thatwould  contradict the positive portion of section  58(3)  ofAct  XXXI  of 1950 and would be inconsistent with  the	ideaunderlying  it.	 We are,therefore, clearly of the view	thatthe  appellant cannot call in aid the principle of the	casein  Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.  V. Irving(1), nor	 canhis case fall within the ambit of the first portion of	sub-section (3) of section 58 of Act XXXI of 1950.The next question for consideration is how the(1)  [1903] A.C. 369.1135second and positive portion of section 58(3) of Act XXXI  of1950 is to be understood.  This portion says that  "anythingdone or any action taken in exercise of any power  conferredby  or	under the (repealed) Ordinance, shall be  deemed  tohave  been  done  or taken in the  exercise  of	 the  powersconferred by or under this Act as if this Act were in  forceon  the	 day  on which such thing was  done  or	 action	 wastaken".	  To appreciate the meaning of this it is  desirableto  have  a  general  idea of the  scheme  of  the  repealedOrdinance, the powers exercisable thereunder, and the natureof the things that may be done, or action that may be taken,thereunder.  The powers exercisable are to be gathered	fromvarious sections and broadly speaking fall under the follow-ing categories.1.   To make appointments-sections 5 and 6.2.   To make enquiries-sections 7, 16, 19 and38  and	 to make declarations or issue	notifications  as  aresult thereof.3.   To	   make	  various   kinds   of	 consequential	  oradministrative order such as those under sections 9, 10, 11,12 and 21.4.   To	 hear and dispose of appeals, reviews or  revisions-sections 24, 25, 26 and 27.5.Power	 of  the  Central Government,  to  exempt,  to	givedirections, to take action with regard to evacuee  property,to delegate powers and to make rules-sections 49, 50, 51, 52and 53.In  addition there are provisions which bring about  variousconsequences  such  as	vesting	 in  the  Custodian,   validdischarge  by payment to the Custodian, attachment,  and  soforth, sections 7 (2), 8, 11, 13, 16 (3), 19 (3), 20 and 22,etc.   The above enumeration is by no means intended  to  beexhaustive  but	 is merely to illustrate the scheme  of	 thevarious provisions in the Ordinance with reference to  whichsection 58 of the Act has to be understood.  There are	alsorules framed by virtue of section 53 of the Ordinance  underwhich  various	powers may be exercised,  things  done,	 andaction taken.If section 58 (3) of Central Act XXXI of 1950 which1136repealed the prior Ordinance is understood with reference tothe  above  scheme,  there  is	no  reason  to	confine	 theoperation  of  the  second  portion  of	 section  58(3)	  toadministrative	action as suggested by learned	counsel	 forthe  appellant.	  Broadly speaking, the	 second	 portion  ofsection 58(3) refers to the whole range of, things that	 maybe  done,  or action that may be taken, under  the  previousOrdinance  and the rules framed thereunder, while the  firstportion	 of section 58(3) relates to the legal	consequencesresulting  under  the Ordinance or the	rules  from  certainfacts  or  from completed acts or  things  done	 thereunder.Without	 attempting to be meticulously accurate, it  may  bestated in general terms, that the scheme underlying  section58(3)  appears to be that every matter to which the new	 Actapplies has to be treated as arising, and to be dealt  with,under  the new law except in so far as certain	consequenceshave  already  ensued  or acts	have  been  completed  priorthereto to which it is the old law that will apply.  In thisview  of  section 58, the application of the  appellant	 forconfirmation  pending on the date when Central Act  XXXI  of1950  came into force had to be dealt with and	disposed  ofunder this Act and the order of confirmation passed in	1952would  clearly	be subject to the revisional  power  of	 theCustodian-General under section 27 of the said Act.It  is	next contended that the revisional power  cannot  beexercised  when there was an appeal provided but  no  appealwas  filed, that it was open to the Assistant Custodian	 whoappeared  before  the Custodian-General in  support  of	 thenotice	for revision or to the allottees of the property  inwhose  interest	 the revisional order appears to  have	beenpassed,	 to  file  an  appeal  under  the  Act	as   personsaggrieved.  Section 27 however is very wide in its terms andit  cannot  be	construed  as  being  subject  to  any	suchlimitations.   Nor  can the scope of  revisional  powers  beconfined only to matters of jurisdiction or illegality as iscontended,  because under section 27, the  Custodian-Generalcan   exercise	revisional  powers  "for  the	purpose	  ofsatisfying himself as to the legality or1137-propriety  of  any  order of the Custodian".   We  are	thusclearly	 of the opinion that the contention of	the  learnedcounsel	 for the appellant that the exercise  of  revisionalpowers	in  this case by the  Custodian-General	 is  withoutjurisdiction or is illegal, must fail.The next question to be considered is as regards the  meritsof  the revisional order of the Custodian-General  which  isunder  appeal before us.  Learned counsel for the  appellantattacked it on various grounds.	 He urged that the ground onwhich the learned Custodian-General set aside the AdditionalCustodian's  order,  viz., absence of notice  to  the  priorallottees  is  wholly  untenable.   He	contended  that	 theallottees had no kind of interest in the land which entitledthem to contest the application for confirmation, that	theywere  at best only lessees for three years which was due  toexpire	very  shortly after the order  of  confirmation	 waspassed by the Additional Custodian.  He pointed out that  assoon  as the application for confirmation was filed  on	 the23rd  February,	 1948, general notice by beat  of  drum	 andaffixture  in the locality and by publication in the  IndianNews  Chronicle	 article  was given,  that  the	 persons  inpossession at the time were only the previous tenants on theland,  who  either  attorned to the appellant  or  left	 thevillage, that the allottees came into possession much  laterand pending the disposal of the confirmation proceedings andpresumably subject to its result.  He also pointed out	thateven when the rules in this behalf came into force under ActXXXI  of  1950, it was discretionary with the  Custodian  togive  notice  to  persons other,  than	the  transferor	 andtransferee,  if	 he considered them to	be  interested,	 andurged  that since the same officer, Shri R. Dayal, made	 theallotment as also the confirmation, he must be taken to haveexercised  his discretion properly in not giving any  noticeto  them, in view of the imminent expiry of the three  yearsterm for which they were put in possession.  It is  stronglyurged that having regard to the above considerations and  tothe  categorical findings of the  Custodian-General  himselfthat the			    1138transaction  which was confirmed, was perfectly	 bona  fide,the setting aside of the order of confirmation against whichno  appeal  was	 filed by any  one,  and  the  consequentialdisturbance of the vested property rights of the  appellant,was in the nature of perverse exercise of revisional  power.The  learned Solicitor General appearing for the  respondentcontended that the finding of the CustodianGeneral about thebona  fides of the transaction was only tentative, that	 theallottees,  though  provisionally placed in  possession	 forthree years had, what has come to be recognised as, a quasi-permanent  interest,  that they had a  genuine	interest  inopposing  the confirmation sought, which related to a  largetract of agricultural land, and which would reduce the	poolof  agricultural  lands	 available  for	 rehabilitation	  ofdisplaced   agriculturists   and   that	  confirmation	  oftransactions relating to such land was opposed to the policyand  directives of the Government and that the	confirmationshould not, in the circumstances, have been lightly  grantedby the Additional Custodian without notice to the  allotteesand a proper consideration of the policies and directives inthis  behalf.	In  reply thereto learned  counsel  for	 theappellant urged that the alleged policies or directives	 arenot  relevant matters for consideration by the Custodian  inthese proceedings which must be taken to be  quasi-judicial,if  not	 judicial, unless such policies	 or  directives	 areembodied  in  rules  made by the  Central  Government  undersection 56(2) (q) and that no such rules were prescribed  bythe  relevant  dates  and that	even  the  Custodian-Generalhimself in his order under appeal discounted the  usefulnessof  any	 reference to notifications and directives  for	 thepurposes  of this case.	 It was also urged that the  matterswhich  could  be taken into consideration are  regulated  bysection	 40(4)	of  Act XXXI of 1950  and  that	 clause	 (c)thereof	 must be construed as referring to  matters  ejusdemgeneris with clauses (a) and (b) But in the view we take  ofthe  order under appeal and the course we propose to  adopt,we  do not wish to express any opinion on the merits of	 theabove arguments.1139The  order under appeal is one passed by virtue of the	widepowers	of  revision vested in the  Custodian-General  undersection	 27  of the Act.  The jurisdiction  which  has	beenchallenged  having  been found in favour of  the  Custodian-General, this Court would normally be slow to interfere withthe  order on its merits.  But with respect to	the  learnedCustodianGeneral, his order is such that it is difficult  tomaintain it.  The learned Solicitor-General himself has beenobliged	 to  put forward arguments in support  of  it  whichcannot	be  clearly gathered from the order itself.   It  isalso  difficult together from it whether the remand  to	 theAdditional Custodian for reconsideration, after notice was ageneral	 and open remand where all questions on	 the  meritsare  to be reconsidered or was only a limited remand and  ifso what the limitations are.  If it was meant to be an	opengeneral remand, as the concluding portion of his order seemsto  indicate,  his definite findings on points (1)  and	 (2)which  he  formulated  for  himself and	 the  doubt  he	 hasexpressed  in  his order about the usefulness  of  examiningafresh the various notifications and directives to which hisattention  was	drawn  by the  Assistant  ,Custodian,  wouldrender it difficult for any Custodian on remand to  considerany  of	 those matters.	 If so, the remand would  appear  toserve no substantial purpose.  In the circumstances, and  infairness  to the learned Custodian-General, the only  propercourse	would be to set aside his order under appeal and  toremit  the matter back to him for fresh	 consideration.	  Onsuch  fresh consideration he will give full  opportunity  toboth  sides for presentation of their respective  points  ofview.  If on the rehearing, he decides to remand the case tothe Custodian, he will clearly indicate what are the mattersto be considered by him.  The learned Custodian-General	 mayalso consider the feasibility of his dealing with the matterfinally	 by himself, calling for a report, if need be,	fromthe Custodian on specified matters, in order to obviate	 anyfurther	 delay	by  appeal  and	 revision  in  this  alreadyprotracted matter.1441140The appeal is allowed and the order of the  CustodianGeneralis  set aside.	The case is remanded to him so that  he	 mayreconsider  and	 dispose of the same in the  light  of	thisjudgment.  There will be no order as to costs,