PETITIONER:M/S.  BURN & CO.  LTD. & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR EMPLOYEES.DATE OF JUDGMENT:30/03/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  896		  1960 SCR  (3) 423 CITATOR INFO : F	    1963 SC 325	 (20,21,22) F	    1964 SC 472	 (3) RF	    1972 SC2148	 (22) RF	    1975 SC1114	 (3)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Incentive  bonus--Scheme--Exclusion	  ofclerical   and	 subordinate   staff--Propriety--Power	  ofIndustrial Tribunal.HEADNOTE:There  can be no doubt from the point of view  of  Economicsthat the clerical and subordinate staff of an industry	likeits  manual workers contribute to its production  and  therecan, therefore, be no reason for excluding them wholly	fromthe benefits of a scheme of incentive bonus.  The fact	thatthe  clerical staff are paid dearness allowance at a  higherscale can be no reason for their exclusion.(1)[1956] 30 I.T.R. 388424Where,	as  in	the instant case, the  company	had  alreadyIntroduced  a scheme of incentive bonus for the majority  ofits  workmen,  there could be no reason why  the  IndustrialTribunal  should  not be able to extend that scheme  to	 theclerical and subordinate staff.M/s.  Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, [1959]Supp. 2 S.C.R. 1012, considered.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 195 and 196of 1959.Appeals	 by  special leave from the Award  dated  April	 15,1957, of the Third Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, in CaseNo. VIII-7 of 1956.B.   Sen,  P.  K.  Chakravarty	and B.	N.  Ghosh,  for	 theappellants (in C. A. No. 195 of 59) and respondents (in C.   A.No. 196 of 59).N.   C.	 Chatterjee, D. L. Sen Gupta and B.  P.	 Maheshwari,for the respondents (in C. A. No. 195 of 59) and  appellants(in C. A. No. 196 of 59).1960.  March 30.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.-These are two appeals by special leave  againstthe same award of the Third Industrial Tribunal, West Bengaland  shall be disposed of by this judgment.  Appeal No.	 195is by Messrs.  Burn and Co. Limited (hereinafter called	 thecompany)  and  Appeal No. 196 is by the workmen	 of  Messrs.Burn  and  Co.	Limited (hereinafter  called  the  workmen).There  were disputes between the company and the workmen  onvarious	 matters,  which were referred to the  tribunal	 foradjudication.	Of these disputes, only two now	 survive  inthe  two appeals.  The company's appeal is with	 respect  tothat  part of the award which deals with incentive bonus  tothe  clerical  and  subordinate staff  while  the  workmen'sappeal	is  with  respect to that part of  the	award  whichappeals	 with the cash benefit of Annas eight per  head	 perworking day for the period the canteen was not in operation.We  shall first take up the company's appeal.	The  companyhas introduced incentive bonus for manual workers  includingSarkars and Checkers but there is no provision for incentivebonus  to the clerical and subordinate staff.	The  workmentherefore  claimed that these two categories should also  begiven  incentive bonus like the manual workers	and  pointedout425that in other concerns this was done.  The company  resistedthe  claim on two grounds: (i) that the clerical  staff	 gotwhat  is  known as the Bengal Chamber of  Commerce  dearnessallowance, which is higher than, the dearness allowance paidto  the manual workers and (ii) that the clerical staff	 andthe  subordinate staff do not actually produce anything	 andif  they  are given incentive bonus it will mean  that	theywould  be  paid on the 'production of  others,	namely,	 themanual workers.The  tribunal was of the view that the fact that the  clerksgot the Bengal Chamber of Commerce dearness allowance was noreason	for  their total exclusion from the benefit  of	 theincentive  bonus  scheme.   It also  pointed  out  that	 thesubordinate staff did not get the Bengal Chamber of Commercedearness allowance and there was no difference between theirdearness allowance and the dearness allowance of the  manualworkers.   Further  the tribunal was conscious of  the	factthat  the  clerical staff and the subordinate staff  do	 notdirectly  produce  goods  but that in  its  opinion  was  nojustification  for their total exclusion, particularly	whenother comparable concerns like the Indian Iron and Steel Co.Ltd.  at  Burnpur,  Bridge and	Roof  Co.  (India)  Limited,Howrah,	 and  Tatas  were  paying  incentive  bonus  to	 theclerical  and subordinate staff also.  It therefore  orderedthat the company should extend the scheme of incentive bonusto the clerical and subordinate staff also and lay down	 therates and conditions for the same.The main contention of the company before us is that as	 theclerical  staff	 and the subordinate staff have no  part  inactual	production  they should not be given  any  incentivebonus,	particularly as their work does not increase at	 allbecause	 of  the  increased  production.   It  is,  however,difficult  to accept that there will be no increase  in	 thework  of  the clerical staff in particular and also  of	 thesubordinate  staff because of higher production,  though  itmay  be accepted that the increase may not be in  proportionto  the	 increase of production.  It is also true  that	 theclerical  staff	 and the subordinate staff do  not  directlyproduce goods like manual workers and that may be a reason426for  treating  them somewhat differently in  the  matter  ofincentive bonus and that is what the tribunal seems to	havedone,  for it has directed the company to extend the  schemeof incentive bonus to the clerical and subordinate staff andto lay down the rates and conditions of the same and has notsaid  that  exactly  the same rates  and  conditions  shouldapply, to the clerical and subordinate staff as apply to themanual workers.	 But there can be no doubt that economicallyspeaking  the clerical staff and the subordinate staff	alsotake part in the production and there is no reason thereforefor  excluding them altogether from the scheme of  incentivebonus.	 Besides, as the tribunal has pointed out, in  othercomparable  concerns  incentive bonus is being paid  to	 theclerical  and  subordinate staff.  The	fact  that  dearnessallowance  was paid to the clerical staff at a higher  scaleis  also,  in  our opinion, no	reason	for  depriving	themaltogether of the benefits of the incentive bonus scheme.It  is	also  urged  on	 behalf	 of  the  company  that	 theintroduction of incentive bonus is a management function andthe  tribunal  should not impose it on	the  management	 andreference  in  this  connection has  been  made	 to  Messrs.Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen (1).  In	 thepresent	 case,	however,  the  incentive  bonus	 scheme	 hasalready been introduced by the company for the major part ofits  workmen  and  all that is now asked  for  is  that	 thebenefit of the scheme should be extended to the remainder ofthe workmen.  This prayer is, in our opinion, very differentfrom  asking a tribunal to impose an incentive bonus  schemefor  the first time in a concern.  We can see no reason	 whywhere  an incentive bonus is in force in a concern  for	 themajority of its workmen, the tribunal should not be able  toextend the same to the remainder of the workmen.We  therefore see no reason to interfere with the  order  ofthe tribunal in this behalfTurning	 now  to the appeal of the workmen with	 respect  toeight  annas tiffin allowance during the period the  canteenwas  riot working, it is enough to say that this matter	 wasexamined at length by the(1)  [1959] SUPP. 2 S.C.R. 1012.427tribunal.   It has dealt with the history relating  to	thistiffin allowance and exhaustively considered all the  pointsraised	on behalf of the workmen.  Nothing has been  broughtto  our notice which would induce us to interfere  with	 theconsidered  order of the tribunal in this behalf.   All	 thepoints	that  Sri  Chatterjee has raised on  behalf  of	 theworkmen	 have  been  dealt  with by  the  tribunal  and	 theconclusion  it	has reached is that halving  regard  to	 thecircumstances,	the workmen were not eligible to the  tiffinallowance of annas eight per head per working day.  All thatwe  need say is that the correspondence between the  workmenand  the company shows that though the workmen were keen  onthe  provision of a canteen before the tiffin allowance	 wasgranted	 by  the award dated July 24, 1953,  their  keennessdisappeared  after  the award.	The company  seems  to	havetaken  steps  even before the award to start a	canteen	 andpursued	 the  matter  vigorously after the  award;  but	 theworkmen started objecting to the arrangements made and	someof the objections were fantastic.  It seems that having beengiven the tiffin allowance they preferred to have it  ratherthan go to the canteen.	 In the circumstances we are of opi-nion  that  the conclusion of the tribunal  is	correct	 andthere is no reason for interference.The  appeals are hereby dismissed, but in the  circumstanceswe pass no order as to costs.Appeals dismissed.