PETITIONER:RAJVI AMAR SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF RAJASTHANDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/11/1957BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  228		  1958 SCR 1015ACT:    State Service-Formation of new State by intergration  ofStates -Effect-Employee under intergrating State  continuingin  service  of	 new State-Status-If can  be  inferred	fromdescription  in	 orders of transfer and	 increment  of	Pay-Substantive  appointment  to  a lower  grade  on  guaranteedemoluments-If  amounts to reduction in	rankConstitution  ofIndia, Art. 3II.HEADNOTE:The appellant was a District and Session judge in the  Stateof  Bikaner  and  after	 its merger  in	 the  new  State  ofRajasthan, on August 7, 1949, continued to serve in the	 newState.	 The covenant of intergration provided, inter  alia,that  the  conditions  of such service were to	be  no	lessadvantageous  than  those  under which	he  was	 working  onNovember  1, 1948.  By a Gazette Notification the  appellantwas  appointed	as an ad hoc Civil and	Additional  Sessionsjudge.	 After	the reorganisation of the  Services  he	 wassubstantively appointed as a Civil judge and placed in gradeC  (Civil judges and Munsiffs) and placed at No. 18  in	 thelist of juniors, but his old pay and emoluments remained  asguaranteed.   Before  such  appointment	 he  was,   however,described  in certain orders of transfer and  increments  ofpay as District and Sessions judge.  The appellant moved theHigh Court under Art. 226 of the Constitution and  contendedthat  he had been reduced in rank without being afforded  anopportunity   to   show	 cause	under  Art.   311   of	 theConstitution.  The High Court held that the appointment mustbe treated as an ad hoc appointment till it was	 regularisedunder  the  Constitution.  This was done by  the  Governmentafter  the decision of the High Court and the appellant	 wasagain appointed as a Civil Judge1014Held, that it is well settled that when a State is by mergerintegrated  to	form a new State, all contracts	 of  servicebetween the prior Government and its servants  automaticallycame  to  an  end and those who elect to serve	in  the	 newState,	or  are	 taken in by it, serve	on  such  terms	 andconditions as the new State may choose to impose.The  State of Madras v. K. M. Rajagopalan, [1955]  2  S.C.R.541, relied on.Virendra  Singh	 &  Others v. The State	 of  Uttar  Pradesh,[1955] 1 S.C.R. 415, referred to.As the appellant's postings in the new State previous to hissubstantive appointment were all transitional and  temporaryin  character  and the guarantee given by the  covenant	 wasfulfilled,  no question of reduction in rank arose so as  toattract Art- 311 Of the Constitution.No  inference of any determination by the new Government  toappoint the appellant in his old post could follow from	 thedescriptions  made in the orders of transfer and  incrementsof pay as appointments are not made in that casual way.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPFLLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 330 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the Judgment and decree  datedSeptember  5,  1955,  of the Rajasthan High  Court  in	WritPetition No. 76 of 1954.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri and Ratnaparkhi A. G.,  for	 theappellant.R.   Ganapathy Iyer, Ram Avtar Gupta and T. M. Sen, for	 therespondent.1957.  November 28.  The following Judgment of the Court wasdelivered byBOSE  J.-This  appeal  arises out of  a	 writ  petition	 formandamus under Art. 226 of the Constitution.The  appellant	was  a District and Sessions  Judge  in	 theformer Bikaner State.  He was appointed on January 29, 1948,in the grade of Rs. 500-40-700 and worked as such till April7, 1949.On  that  date a new State of Rajasthan was  formed  by	 theintegration  of	 a number of States  (including	 the  formerState of Bikaner) by means of a Covenant signed by the	HighContracting Parties.Article XVI (1) of the Covenant ran thus:" The United State hereby guarantees either the	 continuancein service of the permanent members of			    1015the  public  services of the former Rajasthan State  and  ofeach of the new Covenanting States on conditions which	willnot  be	 less  advantageous than those on  which  they	wereserving	 on  the  1st  November	 1948  or  the	payment	  ofreasonable  compensation  or  retirement  on   proportionatepension."The integration necessarily involved a reorganisation of thevarious services in the several integrating States.  On	 thejudicial side it was found that there were as many as twentyeight  Courts  of  District  and  Sessions  Judges  in	 theaggregate.  In the integrated State it was proposed to	haveonly  fifteen.	 The  reorganisation took time	and  in	 theinterval certain interim arrangements had to be made.  Thesearrangements are set out in a Rajasthan Gazette Notificationdated May 25, 1950.  We append the relevant extracts:" 4. In Appendix F...... have been indicated the provisionalpostings  on  an  ad hoc basis of  the	posts  specified  inAppendices A to E. ....................................................... ...6.   All   the	appointments  mentioned	 in  the   differentAppendices,  attached to this Order, are  provisional.	 Theemoluments  of	none of these officers appointed  are  beingaffected  and  they  will continue to  draw  their  existingsalaries  until	 further orders.  All the  appointments	 arewithout	 prejudice to the creation of a Judicial Service  inRajasthan  to be formed in accordance with the	rules  whichmay be made therefor."Appendix F is headed-"Ad hoc postings of Judicial Officers to Civil and  SessionsCourts."The appellant was appointed under this beading in Part 11 asa  Civil  and  Additional  Sessions  Judge  in	the   JaipurDivision.But  before this Notification was made, namely, on  December9, 1949, the appellant received the following order from thenew Rajasthan Government:"  Shri Amar Singh, District and Sessions Judge,  Churu,  istransferred  to Ganganagar as District and  Sessions  Judge,Ganganagar."1291016Among other contentions, the appellant relies on this as  anelection  by  the  new Government to continue  'him  in	 hisoriginal  post and contends that it could not  later  changeits mind and make his service provisional as it purported todo in the notification just cited.Two months after the notification, namely on July 31,  1950,the   appellant's  increment  became  due   and	  Governmentsanctioned it in the following terms:"  Sanction  is	 accorded  to  the  grant  of  a  stipulatedincrement  of Rs. 40 p.m. in the scale of Rs. 500-40-700  toShri Rajvi Amarsingh, District and Sessions Judge in BikanerDivision,  with	 effect from the 23rd March,  1950,  therebyraising his salary from Rs. 540 to Rs. 580 p.m."When  the final re-organisation was brought into  force	 andthe  twenty  eight Courts of District  and  Sessions  Judgesreduced	 to fifteen, the appellant was posted as  Civil	 andAdditional  Sessions  Judge on an ad hoc basis	on  May	 25,1950.On  September 11, 1950, the appellant made a  representationto  the Government of Rajasthan against his posting  of	 May25, 1950, as an ad, hoc Civil and Additional Sessions Judge.He says in his writ petition to the High Court that" he was given to understand that these ad hoc postings werewithout	 prejudice to the claims of the Government  servantsfor  a	suitable  position  in	the  integrated	 set  up  onpermanent  basis."  This  allegation  was  admitted  by	 theopposite party.Later,	he  was appointed substantively as  Civil  Judge  onApril 23, 1951.	 He was placed in Group C (Civil Judges	 andMunsiffs) and placed at No. 18 in the list of junior  posts.His  pay and emoluments were as before and he  retained	 thesame grading, namely Rs. 500-40-700.  His earned  incrementswere  not affected and, except for the change in  name,	 hisconditions of service were not worse than when he was in theservice	 of the Bikaner State.	We were given the  last	 twofacts by his counsel.  They do not appear in the paper book.All that is to be found there are1017references  to these orders but the orders  themselves	havenot been included.Being  aggrieved  by  this, the	 appellant  filed  the	writpetition  out of which this appeal arises on April 3,  1954.His  contention was that under the guarantee given  by	'theUnited	State  of  Rajasthan, and  also	 otherwise,  he	 wasentitled  to be posted as a District and Sessions  Judge  inthe  new  set  up and that the posting of  April  23,  1951,reduced him in rank.  As that was done without affording himan  opportunity to show cause, Art. 311 of the	Constitutionwas violated.The  High  Court held that the posting of  April  23,  1951,which  purports to appoint the appellant substantively as  aCivil  Judge, is wrong and that it must be treated as an  adhoc  appointment  till proper appointments are made  to	 theJudicial Service of Rajasthan according to the	Constitutionof India.The  learned  Judges  held that as there had  been  a  cleardeclaration that a new Judicial Service was to be created inRajasthan  and that the existing officers from	the  variouscovenanting States were not to be taken into it as a  matterof course, it followed that all appointments to it would  beby  way	 of fresh recruitment, and, as the  Constitution  ofIndia  was  in force at that date, these  recruitments	mustconform	 to  its  provisions.  It was  admitted	 before	 thelearned	  Judges  that	after  the  Constitution  only	 theRajpramukh   had   power  to  make  rules   regulating	 therecruitment and conditions of service of those appointed  topublic services and posts in connection with the affairs  ofthe State until provision in that behalf is made by  an	 Actof the Legislature, and it was also admitted that the  StatePublic	Service Commission must be consulted.  As  this	 wasnot done, the learned Judges directed as follows:" The petition is allowed, the postings made by notificationdated the 23rd April, 1951, including that of the petitioneras Civil Judge, are declared to be on an ad hoc basis, and adirection  is made to the Government to provide a  machineryaccording to the1018provisions of the Constitution for the first recruitment  tothe Rajasthan Judicial Service."The  judgment  was delivered on September 5, 1955,  and	 theappellant thereupon came here and was granted special  leaveto appeal on April 16, 1956.In  the	 meanwhile, according to the facts set	out  in	 therespondent's statement of the case, the Rajasthan Governmentcomplied  with the orders of the High Court, reframed  theirrules  and made fresh appointments in accordance with  them.These  were duly published in the Rajasthan Gazette and	 theappellant  was	finally selected to the	 Rajasthan  JudicialService.  He was appointed a Civil Judge.The  Appellant's contention is that the order of  April	 23,1951,  reduced	him in rank and as he was  not	afforded  anopportunity  of showing cause, Art. 311 of the	Constitutionwas  violated.	If this contention is sound, it will  followthat  the  fresh appointment as Civil Judge after  the	HighCourt's order will also be bad for the same reasons.Now  it is well established that when one State is  absorbedin  another,  whether  by  accession,  conquest,  merger  orintegration,  all  contracts of service	 between  the  priorGovernment  and	 its servants  automatically  terminate	 andthereafter  those who elect to serve in the new	 State,	 andare  taken on by it, serve on such terms and  conditions  asthe  new State may choose to impose.  This is nothing  more,(though on a more exalted scale), than an application of theprinciple that underlies the law of Master and Servant	whenthere  is  a  change of masters.  So far as  this  Court  isconcerned, the law is settled by the decision in The,  Stateof  Madras  v.	K. M. Rajagopalan  (1),	 which	follows	 thedecisions  of  the Privy Council and the House of  Lords  inReilly	v. The King (2), and Nokes v. Doncaster	 AmalgamatedCollieries  Ltd.  (3).	The distinction	 between  rights  toproperty  and contractual rights when there is a  change  ofsovereignty  was pointed out in Virendra Singh &  others  v.The State ofUttar Pradesh (4).(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 541, 562.(2)  (1934) A.C. 176.(3)  (1940) A.C. 1014.(4)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 415, 427.1019The  appellant founds on Art.  XVI(1) of the  Covenant.	  Itwas contended that he cannot rely on this because he was nota  party to it but we need not decide this because, even  ifthis be assumed to be the law of the new State settling	 theconditions of service of those who continue in service,	 allthat  it says is that the conditions of their  service	willnot  be	 less  advantageous than those on  which  they	wereserving on November 1, 1948.  We have shown above that	thiscondition is fulfilled.But  that  apart,  Article XVI(1)  indicates  that  the	 oldcontracts terminate just as they did in The State Of  Madrasv.  K. M. Rajagopalan (1).  In the first place,	 there	werethree options:(1)  continuance in service,(2)  payment of reasonable compensation, and(3)  retirement on proportionate pension.That shows that the old contracts terminated and that  thosewho  continued	in  service did so on  the  basis  of  freshcontracts, the conditions of which had yet to be determined.The  only guarantee (assuming that the appellant  can  availhimself	 of it) was that the new conditions were not  to  beless  advantageous  than those on which	 the  appellant	 wasserving	 on November 1, 1948.  There was no  guarantee	thatthey would be the same or better.This  was emphasised in the Rajasthan Gazette  Extraordinarydated June 4, 1949.  It first referred to the broad outlinesof  the	 programme  of integration  that  had  already	beenpublished and then outlined the procedure and principles  tobe observed in carrying it out.	 Paragraph 6 is as follows:"After	final orders have been passed by the  Government  onthe  Departmental  re-organisation schemes  and	 cadres	 andstrength  for  different  kinds of  establishments  in	eachdepartment are fixed, the heads of departments will  preparegradation  lists  according to prescribed rules and  put  upproposals for fixation of each individual Government servantin the posts on permanent, officiating or deputation basis.(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 541, 562.1020They will also determine the revised rates of pay admissibleto  each,  Gazetted and non-Gazetted officer under  the	 newscales etc."and then paragraph 15-"  It  is  not	the intention of  Government  to  throw	 anyGovernment servant out of employ as far as .practicable.  Ifnecessary, services of efficient and deserving staff will beretained temporarily on supernumerary basis in the  prospectof finding work for them in connection with new	 developmentschemes."The order of December 9,1949, on which the appellant relies,transferring  him  as  District and Sessions  Judge  to	 theDistrict  Court at Ganganagar, must be read subject  to	 theabove  and, if Article XVI(1) of the Covenant applies,	thensubject	 to  that as well.  An order of transfer  cannot  beequated to an order of appointment; and in any case, the newcadres had not been established and the new Courts under theproposed scheme of re-organisation had not been constituted,so,  anything done at that stage could only have  been	partand  parcel  of	 the  temporary	 transitional	arrangementspending the final settlement by the new State of the schemesand conditions of service.The  next set of orders published in the Gazette of May	 25,1950, brings this out clearly.	We have already set out	 itsterms.The orders of March 25, 1950, and July 31, 1950, sanctioningthe  increment do not help the appellant.  He  is  describedthere as"  Shri	 Rajvi	Amarsingh, District and	 Sessions  Judge  inBikaner Division."This is merely descriptive as the endorsement on the  letterindicates.  It runs-" Copy forwarded to-(1)  Shri  Amarsingh,  Civil  and  Addl.   Sessions   Judge,Jhunjhunu."No  determination  to post the appellant  permanently  in  aparticular  cadre  and	post can be  spelled  out  of  theseaccidental  descriptions in orders dealing with a  differentmatter.	 Postings to a cadre and engagements of service	 arenot made in this incidental way.1021The  substantive  appointment gazetted on  April  23,  1951,after  the new cadres and Courts had been fixed, was  struckdown by the High Court, and the Government of Rajasthan	 wasdirected to treat that as an ad hoc appointment.   Accordingto  the respondent in its statement of the case, the  matterwas  regularised  after the High Court's  decision  and	 theappellant was again appointed a Civil Judge.  If that is so,then  this  must  be  regarded	as  his	 first	 substantiveappointment in the new State.  But whether this is his firstsubstantive appointment after the integration, or the one ofApril  23, 1951, no question of reduction in rank can  ariseand so Art. 311 is not attracted.  All his previous postingsin the new State were purely transitional and temporary; andso  far	 as Art.  XVI(1) of the Covenant is  concerned,	 itsguarantee has been fulfilled.The appeal is dismissed with costs.		     Appeal dismissed.