PETITIONER:NANDLAL MISRA	Vs.RESPONDENT:K. L. MISRADATE OF JUDGMENT:01/04/1960BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  882		  1960 SCR  (3) 431ACT:Maintenance--Provisions	 of s. 488 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure--Mandatory-Preliminary  enquiry  not	contemplatedProceedings under Chapter XXXVI, Code of Criminal  Procedureof civil nature--Question of Paternity to be decided by	 theMagistrate.HEADNOTE:The  appellant who was a minor filed an application  by	 hismother as his guardian under s. 488 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure  in the Court of the City  Magistrate,  Allahabad,praying for an order against the respondent, for maintenancealleging  that he was his putative father.   The  Magistratesummarily  dismissed  the  appellant's	application  withoutissuing	 notice	 to  the respondent as	required  by  s.488,Criminal  Procedure Code.  The Court of Session in  revisionagainst	 the Magistrate's order came to the conclusion	thatit  was	 a fit case in which the Magistrate  ought  to	haveissued summons to the respondent and submitted the record tothe  High  Court recommending that the order passed  by	 theMagistrate  be set aside and that the Magistrate be  orderedto  proceed  with the application in  accordance  with	law.TheHighCourtrejectedtheSessionsCourt preference and  refusedto  certify  that the case was a fit one for appeal  to	 theSupreme Court.	On appeal by special leave :Held,  that the appellant was not given full opportunity  toestablish his case in the manner prescribed by law.432Section	 488  of  the Code of Criminal	Procedure  does	 notcontemplate  a preliminary enquiry before issuing  a  noticebut lays down that all evidence under that section should betaken  in  the	presence of the respondent  or	his  pleaderindicating  thereby  that one enquiry only  should  be	heldafter notice.Sub-section (6) of s. 488 is mandatory in form and in  clearterms  it  prescribes the procedure to be  followed  by	 theMagistrate.  It is the duty of the Court, before making	 theorder,	to find definitely, though in a summary manner,	 thepaternity of child.Chapter	 XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure is a  self-contained  one and the relief given under it is	 essentiallyof  a civil nature.  It prescribes a summary  procedure	 forcompelling  a  man to maintain his wife	 or  children.	 Thefindings  of a Magistrate under this chapter are  not  finaland  the parties can legitimately agitate their rights in  acivil court.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 64  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember  3, 1956, of the Allahabad High Court	in  CriminalReference No. 159 of 1956.N.   C. Sen, for the appellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India,.	  PurshottamTricumdas, G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.1960.  April 1. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySUBBA  RAO,  J.--This appeal by special	 leave	is  directedagainst	 the  judgment of the High Court  of  Judicature  atAllahabad  rejecting  the  reference  made  by	the  learnedSessions  Judge	 under	S.  488	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure.The appellant is a minor and lives under the guardianship ofhis  mother,  Smt.  Gita Basu.	On September 14,  1955,	 theappellant, through his mother, filed an application under s.488 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (hereinafter  referredto  as	the  Code)  in the Court  of  the  City	 Magistrate,Allahabad,  praying  for an order  against  the	 respondent,Advocate-General, Uttar Pradesh, Allahabad, for	 maintenancealleging  that	he is his putative father.   Without  givingnotice to the respondent, the Magistrate posted the petitionfor  evidence  on  September 20, 1955.	On  that  date,	 theappellant's  guardian was examined and she was	also  cross-examined by the Magistrate at some length.433After  she  was	 examined, the Magistrate  directed  her  toproduce any further evidence she might like to lead under s.202  of	 the Code and, for that purpose,  he  adjourned	 thepetition  for hearing to September 26, 1955, on	 which	dateone police constable was examined and the learned Magistratemade the endorsement that the applicant said that she  wouldexamine	 no  other  witness.  On  September  27,  1955,	 theappellant  filed  a petition before the	 Magistrate  statingthat  s.  200  of the Code had no application  and  that  noenquiry	  need	be  made  before  issuing  notice   to	 therespondent.  If, however, the Court treated the	 applicationas  a  complaint,  the applicant asked for  time  to  adducefurther	  evidence  in	support	 of  the   application	 formaintenance.   On that petition the learned Magistrate	madethe endorsement " lead the further evidence, please, if	 youlike  ". On October 6, 1955, the guardian of  the  appellantexamined  one  more  witness.  On  that	 date,	the  learnedMagistrate  made in the proceeding sheet the endorsement  nofurther evidence to be led at this stageOn  October 10, 1955, the learned Magistrate made  an  orderdismissing the application.  He agreed with the petitioner'scontention that ss. 200 to 203 of the Code did not apply  tothe  application for maintenance; but he expressed the	viewthat he should be satisfied that the petitioner had a  primafacie  case before he issued notice to the  respondent.	  Hethen  proceeded	 to consider the evidence and  came  to	 theconclusion that he was not satisfied that the respondent wasthe  father of Nand Lal, and on that finding he	 refused  toissue notice of the application to the respondent, and	dis-missed	the  application.  The appellant  filed	 a  revisionagainst that order of the learned Magistrate to the SessionsJudge,	 Allahabad.   The  learned  Sessions  Judge,   afterconsidering the materials placed before the Magistrate, cameto  the	 conclusion  that it was a fit	case  in  which	 theMagistrate  ought to have issued summons to  the  respondentunder  sub-s. (6) of s. 488 of the Code.  He  submitted	 therecord	to  the	 High  Court  of  Judicature  at   Allahabadrecommending that the order passed by the Magistrate be	 setaside and that the Magistrate be ordered to proceed with the434application  in accordance with law.  The reference came  upfor  hearing  before Chowdhry, J., who, on  the	 analogy  ofother  sections	 of  the Code held that	 the  Magistrate  inholding	 a preliminary enquiry acted in consonance with	 thegeneral	 scheme of the Code and that, therefore,  the  orderdismissing   the  application  was  not	 vitiated   by	 anyillegality  or	irregularity.	He  observed  that  it	 wasconceded  by  the appellant before the Magistrate  that	 theMagistrate  could  hold	 a  preliminary	 enquiry  and  that,therefore, it was not open to the appellant to question	 itspropriety.   He also found that every opportunity was  givento the guardian of the appellant to lead such evidence as hedesired	 to produce and that, therefore, the  appellant	 wasnot  prejudiced by the alleged irregularity.  On  the  main-tainability  of	 the  reference, he held  that	the  findingarrived at by the learned Magistrate was one of fact on	 thematerials  placed on the record and, as the  Magistrate	 didnot  act  perversely  or  in  contravention  of	 some  well-established  principles	 of law or  procedure,	the  learnedSessions  Judge	 should not have made  the  reference.	 Thelearned Judge finally pointed out that the proceedings	wereonly  summary  in nature and that they did not	deprive	 theappellant  of his right to seek remedy, if any, in  a  civilcourt.	 In  the result, the reference	was  rejected.	 Theappellant  by this appeal questions the correctness of	thatorder.Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the  learnedMagistrate followed a procedure not contemplated by the Codeof Criminal Procedure and that in any event he conducted theenquiry	 in a manner which, to say the least, was unjust  tothe appellant.The learned Solicitor General, appearing for the respondent,supported  the procedure adopted by the Magistrate and	alsothe  finding arrived at by him.	 He further  contended	thatthe  appellant	in  the High Court as  well  as	 before	 theMagistrate conceded that the Magistrate had power to make  apreliminary  enquiry and that, therefore, he should  not  beallowed	 to  question the validity of the  enquiry  for	 thefirst time before this Court.Ordinarily,  in	 a  case  like	this  we  should  have	beendisinclined to interfere with the order of the High435Court in an appeal filed under Art. 136 of the Constitution.But,  this appeal discloses exceptional circumstances  whichcompel us to depart from the ordinary practice.It  is not correct to state that the appellant had  concededthroughout that a Magistrate can make a preliminary  enquiryunder  s.  488	of the Code before  issuing  notice  to	 therespondent.   ,	 Indeed	 the  judgment	of  the	  Magistratediscloses that on behalf of the appellant certain  decisionswere cited in support of the contention that an	 applicationunder s. 488 of the Code does not come under the purview  ofss.  200  to  203  of the Code.	 Section  200  of  the	Codeprovides for the examination of the complainant and the wit-nesses present in court.  Section 202 enables him to make  afurther enquiry before issuing notice.	Section 203 empowershim to dismiss a petition, if in his judgment no  sufficientground for proceeding with the case has been made out.	 Thecontention raised by the appellant, therefore, can only meanthat  the Magistrate -cannot make a preliminary	 enquiry  inthe manner contemplated by the said provisions.	 Indeed, theMagistrate accepted this contention; but he observed:  "But,as the learned counsel submit, I have to be satisfied that anotice	under s. 488 Cr.  P.C. should issue to the  oppositeparty  before	issue it and that, therefore, all  that	 hascome on record as yet is admissible for consideration of thequestion whether the notice should be issued or not ".	Thisobservation did not record any concession on the part of theappellant  that	 the  Magistrate could	make  a	 preliminaryenquiry.  In the context of the first submission, the secondsubmission could only mean that the Magistrate could satisfyhimself	 before issuing notice, whether the application	 wasex  facie  not maintainable or frivolous.  In  the  revisionpetition  filed	 before the Sessions  Judge,  the  appellantraised the following ground :"  Because  the	 court below while  correctly  holding	thatapplication made by the applicant under s. 488 Cr. P. C. didnot attract the operation of the provisions  made in ss. 200to 203 of the said Code	 and  further that in  pursuance  ofthe mandatory provision in s, 488(6) all evidence under436Chapter	 XXXVI	of  the	 said Code shall  be  taken  in	 thepresence  of  the  opposite  party,  has  erred	 in  law  indirecting  evidence to be led under s. 200 Cr P. C.  and  inconsidering the said evidence has usurped a jurisdiction notvested in it by law."The  judgment of the learned Sessions Judge  also  disclosedthat  this point was raised before him.	 Though the  learnedSessions  Judge accepted the contention that ss. 200 to	 203of  the Code had no application, he remarked that " in	thiscase  the  learned  Magistrate thought	it  fit	 to  satisfyhimself	 if  this was a case fit enough in which  he  shouldissue a notice." Before the learned Judge of the High Court,it  does not appear that any concession, even in  a  limitedform,  was  made.  Chowdhry, J., observes  in  his  judgment"...it	appears that it was conceded by the learned  counselappearing  for	the  applicant that the	 Magistrate  had  tosatisfy	 himself in limine that a notice of the	 applicationin  question  should  issue to	the  opposite  party."	Thisobservation  is only a reproduction of what  the  Magistratestated	in his judgment.  Learned counsel, who appeared	 forthe  appellant	in the High Court, does not appear  to	havemade  any fresh concession before the High Court and  we  donot  think that the learned Judge was justified	 in  drawingfrom the observations of the Magistrate that it was concededon  behalf  of	the applicant that it  would  be  a  pro-perprocedure  for the court to make such a preliminary  enquiryin  order to satisfy itself that notice should issue to	 theopposite party.	 As we have pointed out, the main contentionof the petitioner throughout was that the Magistrate had  nopower to make a preliminary enquiry and the concession, evenif it had been made, can only mean, in the context, that theMagistrate could satisfy himself whether, on the allegationsin the petition, it was a frivolous petition.The   first  question  is  whether  s.	488  of	  the	Codecontemplates  any  preliminary	enquiry on  the	 part  of  aMagistrate  before  he could issue notice  to  the  oppositeparty.	  The  answer  to  this	 question  turns  upon	 theconstruction  of  the  provisions of s.	 488  of  the  Code.Chapter XXXVI of the Code contains three437provisions.   The  heading  of	the  Chapter  is  "  of	 TheMaintenance of Wives and Children".  The relevant provisionsread:Section	 488.  (1)  If any person  having  sufficient  meansneglects  or refuses to maintain his wife or his  legitimateor  illegitimate  child	 unable	 to  maintain  itself,	 theDistrict  Magistrate,  a  Presidency,  Magistrate,  a	Sub-divisional  Magistrate	or a Magistrate of the	first  classmay,  upon  proof  of such neglect or  refusal,	 order	suchperson	to make a monthly allowance for the  maintenance  ofhis wife or such child, at such monthly rate, not  exceedingfive hundred rupees in the whole, as such Magistrate  thinksfit,  and to pay the same to such person as  the  Magistratefrom time to time directs.	 x		  x		    x(6)  All  evidence under this Chapter shall be taken in	 thepresence  of the husband or father, as the case may  be,  orwhen  his  personal  attendance is dispensed  with,  in	 thepresence of his pleader, and shall be recorded in the mannerprescribed in the case of summons-cases:	x		  x		   xSection	 489  provides for the alteration in  the  allowanceunder  s. 488, and s. 490 prescribes the procedure  for	 theenforcement  of the order of maintenance.  The relief  giventinder	this  Chapter is essentially of	 civil	nature.	  Itprescribes  a  summary	procedure for compelling  a  man  tomaintain his wife or children.	The findings of a magistrateunder  this  Chapter  are  not final  and  the	parties	 canlegitimately  agitate their rights in a civil  court.	ThisChapter is a self-contained one.  It recognizes the right ofa  child  or wife to claim maintenance.	 It  prescribes	 theprocedure to be followed and provides for the enforcement ofthe decision of the magistrate.	 Under s. 488, so far as  itis  relevant to the present enquiry, an	 illegitimate  childunable to maintain itself is entitled to a monthly allowancefor   its  maintenance,	 if  the  putative   father   havingsufficient  means neglects or refuses to maintain it. It  issuggested that unless the child is admitted by the  putativefather to be his illegitimate child, the56438magistrate  has	 no power to make an order  for	 payment  ofmaintenance.   This  argument, if accepted, would  make	 theentire	section nugatory.  The basis of an  application	 formaintenance  of	 a  child  is the  paternity  of  the  childirrespective of its legitimacy or illegitimacy.	 The sectionby  conferring	jurisdiction on the magistrate	to  make  anallowance  for	the maintenance of the child,  by  necessaryimplication,   confers	 power	 on  him   to	decide	 thejurisdictional	fact whether the child is  the	illegitimatechild  of  the	respondent.  It is the duty  of	 the  court,before	making	the order, to find definitely, though  in  asummary	 manner, the paternity of the child.  Sub-s. (6)  ofs. 488 is mandatory in form and in clear terms it prescribesthe procedure to be followed by the Magistrate.	 Under	thatsubsection,  all evidence under that Chapter shall be  takenin  the presence of the husband or the father, as  the	casemaybe,	or, when his personal attendance is dispensed  with,in the presence of his pleader, and shall be recorded in themanner prescribed in the case of summons-cases.	 The word  "all  " with which the sub-section opens emphasizes the	factthat no evidence shall be taken in the absence of the fatheror  his pleader.  It is conceded that ss. 200 to 203 of	 theCode  do  not apply to an application under s.	488  of	 theCode.	As the proceedings are of a civil nature,  the	Codedoes  not  contemplate any preliminary	enquiry.   When	 theterms  are clear, there is no scope for drawing	 inspirationfrom  other sections of the Code, or for deviating from	 theprocedure  prescribed to fill up an alleged lacuna.   It  issaid  that  if	no preliminary enquiry be held,	 even  in  ablackmailing   action  notice  will  have  to  go   to	 therespondent.  There is nothing incongruous in this  position;for,  if a suit is filed in a civil court for a	 decree	 formaintenance by a child against the alleged putative  father,summons will go to him without any preliminary enquiry.	  Weare  not  impressed  by the argument  that  the	 sub-sectionitself	is intended only for the benefit of the	 respondent.It  appears  to us that notice to the respondent is  in	 theinterest  of  both the applicant as well as  the  respondentwhile it enables the respondent to be present when  evidenceis taken against him, it lightens the burden439of  the petitioner, for an honest respondent may  admit	 hispaternity  of the child, if that was a fact and may  contestonly  the quantum of maintenance.  We, therefore, hold	thats.  488	 of  the Code does  not	 contemplate  a	 preliminaryenquiry	 before	 issuing a notice, but lays  down  that	 allevidence under that Chapter should be taken in the  presenceof  the respondent or his pleader, indicating  thereby	thatone enquiry only should be held after notice.The  more  objectionable feature in this case  is  that	 theMagistrate followed a procedure; which is, to say the least,unjust	to  the	 appellant.  The  appellant's  guardian	 wasexamined   by	the   Magistrate,  and	 she   related	 thecircumstances  that  led to her illicit	 intimacy  with	 therespondent; she has stated in what circumstance the intimacycommenced.   She  filed copies of the notices sent  by	her,through	 an advocate, by registered post to  the  respondentdemanding  maintenance	and  stated that  she  received	 theacknowledgments	 but the respondent did not think it fit  toreply.	  She  filed  a	 photograph  wherein  she  and	 therespondent were seated on chairs with the appellant standingbetween them.  A servant was also examined, who deposed thatshe had seen the respondent visiting the appellant's  motherat   odd  hours.   This	 evidence,  ordinarily,	  would	  besufficient,   even  if	the  procedure	followed   by	-theMagistrate   was   permissible,	 to  give  notice   to	 therespondent.   But the learned Magistrate cross-examined	 themother	of  the	 appellant  at	great  length.	 The  cross-examination   discloses	 that  the  Magistrate	had   eitheruncommon  powers  of  intuition	 or  extraneous	 sources  ofinformation,  for he elicited so many minute details of	 herlife  that  only an advocate well instructed  in  his  briefcould possibly do.  The singularity of the method adopted bythe Magistrate does not end there.  The learned	 Magistrate,though he subsequently held that he could not make a  preli-minary	enquiry	 as contemplated by ss. 200 to	203  of	 theCode,  examined the mother of the appellant at great  lengthand  then gave her opportunity under S. 202 of the  Code  toproduce other evidence.	 After examining two more witnesses,the learned Magistrate ordered that " no further evidence tobe led at this440stage  ". This order indicates that the	 learned  Magistrateprevented  the	appellant  at that stage  to  examine  otherwitnesses.  Even if a liberal meaning was given to the termsof the order, it would mean that at that time the Magistratewas  inclined to give notice to the respondent	but  changedhis   mind   subsequently.    Thereafter,   the	  Magistrateconsidered  the	 evidence and delivered a  judgment  holdingthat   the   paternity	of  the	 appellant  had	  not	beenestablished.	While  there  was  uncontradicted   evidencesufficient  for	 the  Magistrate  to  give  notice  to	 therespondent,  he	 recorded a finding  against  the  appellantbefore	the  entire evidence was placed before	him.   Whileaccepting the contention of the appellant that the procedureunder  ss. 200 to 203 of the Code did not apply, in fact  hefollowed  that	procedure  and	converted  the	 preliminaryenquiry	 into a trial for the determination of the  questionraised.	  Indeed, he took upon himself the role of a  cross-examining  counsel engaged by	the respondent.	 The  recorddiscloses that presumably    the Magistrate was oppressed bythe  high status of the respondent, and instead of making  asincere attempt to ascertain the truth proceeded to adopt  aprocedure  which  is not warranted by the Code	of  CriminalProcedure, and to make an unjudicial approach to the case ofthe  appellant.	  In the courts of law, there  cannot  be  adouble-standard-one  for the  highly placed and another	 forthe  rest: the Magistrate has no concern with  personalitieswho  are  parties to the case before him but only  with	 itsmerits.After  carefully  going through the entire  record,  we	 aresatisfied that the appellant was not given full	 opportunityto  establish his case in the manner prescribed by law.	  Weshould	not be understood to have expressed any	 opinion  onthe  merits of the case; they fall to be considered  on	 theentire	evidence which may be produced by the  appellant  inthe  presence of the respondent or his pleader, as the	casemay be.In the result, the order of the High Court is set aside	 andthe reference made by the Sessions Judge is accepted and the'application  is  remanded to the Court of  the	 Magistrate,First Class, Allahabad, for disposal according to law.Appeal allowed.0441