PETITIONER:JIBON KRISHNA MUKHERJEE & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:NEW BHEERBHUM COAL CO.	LTD. & ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:10/11/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  297		  1960 SCR  (2) 198 CITATOR INFO : E	    1984 SC1471	 (54)ACT:       Decree,	execution of-Receiver appointed and  authorised	 by       court  to sell Property-Sale by receiver-Application to	set       aside  such  sale on deposit-Maintainability-Code  of  Civil       Procedure (Act V of 1908), ss. 51, 151, O. 21, r. 89.HEADNOTE:On  the	 judgment  debtor's default  in	 paying	 the  agreedinstalments of the decretal amount a receiver was  appointedby  the Court in execution of the decree under s. 51 of	 theCode  of  Civil Procedure with power to	 sell  the  judgmentdebtor's  property  either by private  agreement  or  publicauction.   The	receiver  entered  into	 an  agreement	withrespondent  No.	 2,  a	third party, for  the  sale  of	 theproperty  for a larger sum than the decretal amount  on	 thecondition  that	 the sale should be confirmed  by  the	HighCourt.	  The  High  Court  allowed  the   decree   holder'sapplication for confirmation of the sale by the receiver butallowed	 the judgment debtor time to pay the balance of	 thedecretal  amount  in  which  case the sale  was	 not  to  beconfirmed.   The judgment debtor made partial  payments	 butfailed	to  pay	 the  entire  decretal	amount	within	 theprescribed time and in spite of several opportunities  givento him by the Court to do so.  He ultimately applied to	 theCourt  for  cancellation of the agreement for  sate  by	 thereceiver  and prayed for leave to deposit the whole  balanceof  the decretal amount.  I his was disallowed by  a  Singlejudge  and on appeal by a Division Bench of the High  Court.The  main question that arose for decision both in the	HighCourt,	and Supreme Court, oil appeal by special leave,	 waswhether the provisions of s. 21, r. 89 of the Code of  CivilProcedure  apply to a sale held by a receiver  appointed  bythe  Court.   The High Court answered this question  in	 thenegative.Held, that the High Court was right in refusing to entertainthe appellant's applications under s. 21, r. 89.In  a  sale by the receiver lie is not required to  issue  aproclamation of sale as required by s. 21, r. 66 of the Codeof  Civil Procedure and as such the provisions of s. 21,  r.89 under which a sale proclamation is an essential  element,do not apply to a sale held by him.Minatoonnessa  Bibee  and Others v.  Khatoonnessa  Bibi	 andOthers (1898) I.L.R. 21 Cal. 479, Golam Hossein Cassin Ariffv.  Fatima  Begam (1910) 16 C.W.N. 394,	 jogemaya  Dasee  v.Akhoy  Coomar  Das (1912) I.L.R. 40 Cal. 140, Basir  Ali  v.Hafiz  Nazir  Ali, (1916) I.L.R. 43 Cal. 124 and  Rani	BalaBose and Others v. Hirendra Chandra Ghose and Others  (1948)52 C.W.N. 739, considered.			    199Held, further, that the High Court was right in holding thatthe  court's jurisdiction could not be invoked in favour  ofthe appellant under s. 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure inview  of  the fact that he committed  repeated	defaults  inspite of several opportunities given to him by the Court  topay the balance of the decretal amount, and that this  courtwould  not  interfere with the discretion exercised  by	 theHigh Court in such circumstances.The  order  of	the High Court confirming the  sale  by	 thereceiver was not a conditional one.  It gave an	 opportunityto  the	 judgment debtor to pay the decretal amount  in	 themanner prescribed by it failing which the sale was to  standconfirmed.   There  is no scope for applying  the  principlethat   the  court  had	inherent  power	 to  deal  with	  anapplication to set aside an order made ex parte on a  propercase being substantiated, as laid down in S. M. Sudevi	Deviv. Sovaram Agarwallah (1906) 10 C.W.N. 306.JUDGMENT:       CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 342 of 1959.       Appeal  by special leave from the judgment and decree  dated       April  29, 1959, of the Calcutta High Court, in appeal  from       Original Order No. 188 of 1958.       H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India.       T.   S. Venkatarama, K. R. Sarma and K. R. Chaudhry, for the       appellants.       S. N. Mukherjee, for respondent No 1.       N.   C.	Chatterjee,  S. K. Acharyya and R. S.  Narula,	for       respondent No. 2.       1959.  November 10.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered       by       GAJENDRAGADKAR	  J.-The    principal	 question     which       Gajendragadhar J. which this appeal by special leave  raises       for our decision is: Whether the provisions of s. 21, r.	 89       of  the	Code of Civil Procedure apply to a sale held  by  a       receiver	 appointed by the court and authorized to sell	the       property	 in  question.	 The learned Single  Judge  on	the       Original	 Side  of the Calcutta High Court as  well  as	the       Division	 Bench of the, said High Court have  answered  this       question	 in the negative.  The appellants contend that	the       view taken by the Calcutta High Court is erroneous.       This question arises in this way.  In Suit No. 1024 of  1953       on the Original Side of the Calcutta High Court a decree for       the payment of Rs. 18,497-15-0 was       200       passed  by consent in favour of the New Bheerbhum  Coal	Co.       Ltd.,  (hereinafter  called respondent 1) and  against'	the       Benares Ice Factory, Ltd., (hereinafter called appellant	 2)       on December 5, 1955.  The decree provided for the payment of       the decretal amount by six equal instalments and it directed       that  in case of default of any one of the  instalments	the       balance	of the decretal dues would at once become  payable.       A  first charge was created by the decree on the	 plant	and       machinery  of appellant 2 for securing the payment  of  ,the       decretal	 amount.  A default having occurred in the  payment       of instalments respondent I applied for the execution of the       decree  on April 10, 1956.  On this application	an  interim       order was made on May 17, 1956, appointing Mr. A. K. Sen, as       Receiver	 of the properties charged.  The  said	application       was  finally decided by an order passed on May 30, 1956,	 by       which  the appointment of the receiver was confirmed and	 he       was  given  liberty to sell the said  properties	 either	 by       private	treaty or by public auction.  It is  common  ground       that  the receiver took possession of the said  property	 in       December 1956.       Subsequently,  on March 10, 1958, the receiver entered  into       an  agreement with Sukhlal Amarchand  Vadnagra  (hereinafter       called  respondent 2) for the sale of the said property	for       Rs.  30,000.  The terms and conditions embodied in the  said       agreement provided inter alia that within one month from the       date of the receipt by the purchaser of intimation from	the       receiver that the sale bad been confirmed by the High  Court       the purchaser shall deposit with the said receiver the  full       price  of  Rs.  30,000.	On March  31,  1958,  respondent  I       applied to the court for confirmation of the said  agreement       and   on	 May  9,  1958,	 G.K.  Mittter,	 J.,  allowed	the       application.  He ordered that the appellants should  deposit       the sum of Rs. 3,000 with the attorneys of the decree bolder       towards its claim under the said decree and further directed       that  if the said amount was paid within the time  aforesaid       and  the balance of the decretal amount was paid within	ten       weeks  thereafter  the  agreement  of  sale  shall  not	 be       confirmed.  The order further provided that in default201of the appellants paying the amounts as directed within	 therespective due dates the sale of the charged property by thereceiver  to  the  second  respondent  as  get	out  in	 theagreement shall be confirmed.Pursuant  to  this order the appellants deposited  with	 theattorneys  of  the decreeholder Rs. 3,000 on May  30,  1958.They  had  also paid to the receiver Rs. 3,500	  in August,1957,  towards the decretal dues.  It appears that when	 theappellants were unable to pay the balance as directed by thecourt  appellant  2 applied to the court  praying  that	 theagreement  of sale should be cancelled and the	time  withinwhich  he  was directed to pay the balance of  the  decretalamount should be extended.  The application also sought	 forcertain	 other directions.  G.K. Mitter, J., who heard	thisapplication dismissed it on July 29, 1958, and confirmed theagreement of sale.On August 20, 1958, appellant 2 took out a notice of  motionof  an application made by him on the same day praying	thatleave  may  be granted to him to deposit the  whole  of	 thebalance of the decretal amount and that the receiver  shouldbe  restrained from receiving any money from  the  intendingpurchaser  in  terms of the agreement of sale.	 It  appearsthat on August 22, 1958, respondent 2 tendered a cheque	 forRs.  30,000  to	 the receiver towards  the  payment  of	 thepurchase   money   under  the  agreement  of   sale.	Soonthereafter,  however, respondent 2 took back the cheque	 andpaid  Rs.  30,000  in  cash  on	 September  1,	1958.	 Theapplication made by appellant 2 for leave to pay the balanceof the decretal amount was dismissed by G. K. Mitter, J., onSeptember  4, 1958.  The learned judge, however, stayed	 thedelivery of possession of the property to respondent 2 for aweek from the date of his order.The appellants then filed an appeal against the order of thelearned judge before a Division Bench of the High Court	 andobtained an order for stay of delivery pending the  decisionof  the	 appeal.   On April 29,	 1959,	the  Division  Benchdismissed the appeal and refused to grant certificate to theappellants to file an appeal in this Court.  The appellants26202     then  applied for and obtained special leave from	thisCourt  on  May 20, 1959.  That is how this appeal  has	comebefore us; and the main point which Mr. Sanyal,	  for	 theappellants, has raised for our decision is that	  the courtsbelow  were  in	 error in refusing to  give  relief  to	 theappellants  under 0. 21, r. 89 on the ground that  the	saidrule was inapplicable to the sale held by the receiver.It  is	common ground that the receiver was  appointed	with"power	to him to get in and collect the  outstanding  debtsand  claims due in respect of the charged property and	withall powers provided for in 0. 40, r. 1, cl. (d) of the	Codeof Civil Procedure ". The order appointing the receiver alsoexpressly directed that the receiver shall be at liberty  tosell  the  said property charged in favour of  respondent  1either by private treaty or by private auction to 'the	bestpurchaser or purchasers that can- be got for the sale but heshall  not  hold such sale before the 13th  day	 of  August,1956.	In  other  words,  the	receiver  was  appointed  inexecution  proceedings	under s. 51 and was  given  all	 thepowers under 0. 40, r. 1(d) of the )Code.  It is by  virtue,of  those powers that he entered into the agreement of	salewith respondent 2 and sold the property to him and gave	 himits  possession.  Section 51 which deals with the powers  ofthe court to enforce execution provides for the execution ofthe  decree by five alternative modes specified in cls.	 (a)to (e).	 One of the modes of execution is the appointment ofa  receiver  which means that a decree for  the	 payment  ofmoney can be executed by the appointment of a receiver.	  Hemay  either collect the income of the property belonging  tothe judgment-debtor and thereby satisfy the decree, or if soauthorised  he may sell the property of the  judgment-debtorand  thereby  arrange for the satisfaction  of	the  decree.Thus,  in dealing with the question as to whether the  -,aleheld by the receiver is a sale ordered by the court to which0.  21, r. 89 applies it is necessary to remember  that	 theappointment of the receiver itself is a mode of execution ofthe decree.203When the receiver so appointed is given all the powers under0. 40, r. 1(d) it is these powers which he seeks to exercisewhen selling the judgment-debtor's property in execution  ofthe  decree.   The  sale held by  the  receiver	 under	suchconditions  would no doubt be governed by the provisions  of0.  40, and the court may  supervise or issue  directions inrespect	 of  such a sale under the provisions  of  the	saidorder.	Prima facie the sale held by the receiver  appointedin   execution	proceedings  in	 pursuance  of	the   powersconferred  on him under 0. 40, r. 1(d) would be governed  bythe powers conferred on him and the terms and conditions  onwhich  the said powers may have been conferred and by  otherrelevant provisions of 0. 40.  It does not seem, to  attractthe provisions of 0. 21.  Courts  have had occasion to consider questions about	 theapplicability  of several provisions of 0. 21 to sales	heldby  receivers and opinions expressed on such questions	havediffered more particularly in the Calcutta High Court as  wewill  presently indicate.  In the present appeal we  do	 notpropose to consider or decide the general question about thecharacter of the sale held by the receiver nor do we proposeto  attempt to specify which provisions of 0. 21 will  applyto  such sales and which will not.  We are dealing with	 thenarrow question as to whether 0. 21, r. 89 applies to such asale; and it is to the decision of this narrow question thatwe will address ourselves in the present appeal. Order 21 , r. 89 enables the persons specified in subr. (1)to apply to have the sale held in execution proceedings	 setaside on two conditions, (a) the applicant must deposit	 forpayment	 to the purchaser a sum equal to 5% of the  purchasemoney,	and (b) for payment to the decreeholder	 the  amountspecified  in  the  proclamation of sale  as  that  for	 therecovery of which the sale was ordered less any amount whichmay  since the date of such proclamation of sale  have	beenreceived  by  the  decreeholder.   The	second	 requirementimmediately  raises  the  question  as	to  whether  it	  isnecessary for the receiver in selling immoveable property inexecution proceedings to issue204a proclamation as required by 0. 21, r. 66 of the Code.	  Inour opinion there can be no doubt that the provisions of thesaid  rule  do	not apply to sales held	 by  receivers.	  Nodecision has been cited before us where a contrary view	 hasbeen expressed.	 The provisions of the said rule apply whereproperty  is  ordered  to  be  sold  by	 public	 auction  inexecution by the court, and  the order for the sale of	suchproperty  must be made by any court other than the Court  ofSmall Causes as provided by r. 82.  Where the court appointsa  receiver and gives him liberty to sell the  property	 thereceiver  may either sell the property and  thereby  realisethe  money  for the satisfaction of the decree, or  he	may,even  without  selling	the property, seek  to	satisfy	 thedecree	by the collection of rents due from the property  orother ways open to him under the law.  In such a case it  isdifficult  to  hold  that by- the very	appointment  of	 thereceiver clothing him with the power to sell the property ifhe  thought it necessary to do so the court had ordered	 thesale  of the said property within the meaning of 0.  21,  r.82.  If the provisions of r. 66 of 0. 21 are inapplicable tosales  held  by	 receivers it is  obvious  that	 the  secondcondition prescribed by r. 89(1)(b) is equally	inapplicableand  it is undoubtedly one of the two  essential  conditionsfor  the successful prosecution of an application under	 thesaid rule.  In our opinion this fact clearly emphasises	 theinapplicability	  of  the  whole  rule	to  sales  held	  byreceivers.  We are, therefore, satisfied that the High Courtwas   right  is	 refusing  to  entertain   the	 appellants'application under 0. 21, r. 89.  It  is  then	argued	that  the  High	 Court	should	haveconsidered the appellants' prayer under s. 151 of the  Code.It is no doubt a hard case where the appellants have to losetheir  property though presumbly at the time when they	madethe present application in the High Court they were able  toproduce for the payment to the decreeholder the whole of thebalance	 of  the decretal amount.  As the  judgment  of	 theDivision  Bench	 shows the learned  judges  themselves	haveobserved that it was difficult not to feel sympathy for	 theappellants; but, on the other hand, it is clear205from  the  record  that the  appellants	 were  given  enoughopportunity  to	 pay the decretal amount.   The	 decree	 waspassed	by  consent  and included  a  default  clause.	 Theappellants  committed default and incurred the liability  topay the whole of the decretal amount.  When the agreement ofsale executed by the receiver  came before the court anotheropportunity was given to the appellants to pay the  decretalamount	on the specified conditions.  The  appellants  againcommitted a default.  It is only later when it was too	latethat they rushed to the court with a prayer that they shouldbe  allowed to pay the decretal amount themselves and  theirproperty should be saved.  Under such circumstances, if	 thelearned	 judge	who heard their application as well  as	 theappellate  court  came to the conclusion  that	the  court'sjurisdiction   under  s.  151  cannot  be  invoked  by	 theappellants, we do not see how we can interfere with the saiddecision.   It	is  true that s.  151  is  not	specificallymentioned in the judgment of either of the courts below, butthat must be obviously because no specific plea under s. 151was raised.  Even so the Division Bench has observed that itcould not interfere with the order of the learned judge whenin  his discretion he refused to make an order as asked	 forby  the	 appellants.   This must  inevitably  refer  to	 thediscretion under s. 151, because if 0. 21, r. 89 had appliedand  the appellants had satisfied the conditions  prescribedby  it there would be no discretion in the court  to  refusesuch an application.  It would then have been a right of theappellants  to claim that the sale should be set aside.	  Weare,  therefore, unable to accede to the plea raised  beforeus by Mr. Sanyal under s. 151 of the Code.There is another point which Mr. Sanyal attempted to  raise.He  contended that the sale had not been properly  confirmedbefore	he  moved the court for leave to  pay  the  decretalamount,	 and  so  the  courts below were  in  error  in	 notallowing  his  application.   This argument is	based  on  adecision  of the Calcutta High Court in S.M. Sudevi Devi  v.Sovaram	 Agarwallah(1).	  In that case	Woodroffe,  J.,	 wasdealing with a (1) (1906) 10 C.W.N. 306.206conditional  decree which entitled the decreeholder, on	 thedefault of the defendant, to apply to the court which passedthe  decree  to direct the ejectment of the defend  ant.  Itappears	   that	   when	  disputes   arose    between	 thedecreeholder  and  the	judgment-debtor	 in  regard  to	 theperformance  of	 the conditions imposed by  the	 decree	 thedecreeholder   obtained	  an   order   for   ejectment	  ofthe  defendant without notice to the  judgment-debtor.	 Thejudgment-debtor then applied for setting aside, modifying orreviewing the said order.. Woodroffe, J., held that a  courthad inherent power to deal with an application to set  asidean   order   made  ex  parte,  on  a   proper	case   beingsubstantiated.	 Mr.  Sanyal contends that the sale  in	 thepresent	 case  being conditional in the sense  that  it	 wassubject to the confirmation by the court it was open to	 thecourt  to refuse to confirm it when the	 appellants  appliedfor  leave to pay the balance of the decretal amount.	Thisargument  necessarily  assumes	that  the  order  passed  byMitter, J., on May 9, 1958, was a conditional order.  In ouropinion this assumption is not well-founded.  The said orderno  doubt gave an opportunity to the appellants to  pay	 thedecretal  a-mount  in  the manner prescribed by	 it  but  itclearly provided that in default of the appellants complyingwith the said conditions within the respective due dates thesale  of  the property by the receiver to  respondent  2  beconfirmed and that the said receiver do make over possessionof  the	 said property to the said purchaser.  It  is  clearthat this order is not a conditional order at all.  It is  acomposite  order.   It	provided  for  the  payment  of	 thedecretal amount by the appellants and in that sense gave  anopportunity  to	 the appellants to avoid the sale  of  theirproperty  but, on the other hand, it also provided  that  ontheir  default	to comply with the order the sale  do  standconfirmed  and the receiver do make over the  possession  ofthe  property to the purchaser.	 Therefore, in our  opinion,there  is no scope for applying the principle laid  down  byWoodroffe, J., in the 'ease of S. M. Sudevi Devi (1).(1)  (1906) 10 C.W.N. 306.207 Before	 we  part  with this appeal  we-  may  very  brieflyindicate the nature of the divergence of views expressed  inthe Calcutta High Court on the question about the  characterof sales held by receivers appointed by courts to which	 ourattention has been invited. In Minatoonnessa Bibee & Ors. v. Khatoonnessa Bibee  & Ors.(1),  Mr.  Justice  Sale,  held	 that  the  purchaser  at  areceiver's sale is entitled to obtain the assistance of	 thecourt  in obtaining the possession under the  provisions  ofthe  Code  relating to sales in suits.	In  coming  to	thisconclusion the learned judge referred to a precedent in	 theCalcutta  High Court in that behalf, and made an  order	 forpossession  of the property in favour of the  receiver.	  Itmay  be pointed out that the learned judge, in dealing	withthe  question,	has referred to the important fact  that  inthat particular case the sale had been already treated as  asale  by  the  court inasmuch, as  the	registrar  had	beendirected  under	 the provisions of the Code to	execute	 theconveyance  on	behalf of some of the parties to  the  suit.Thus the question was in a sense res judicata.	However,  indealing	 with the general question the learned judge has  nodoubt  observed	 that  sales  by  receivers  "	are  in	 allessential particulars similar to sales by the registrar, andthat  if  they	are sales by a civil court  in	a  suit	 theprocedure  prescribed by the Code for sales in a suit  wouldbe  applicable."  We do not think  that	 these	observationsshould	be  divorced from the facts of the  particular	casewith which the learned judge was dealing, and read as layingdown  a	 general proposition that sales	 held  by  receiversattract the application of all the provisions in the Code inregard	to sales held by the court.  If such  a	 propositionwas really intended to be laid down we would hold that it isnot  correct at least in regard to the provisions of 0.	 21,r. 89. In  Gulam  Hossein  Cassim Ariff v. Fatima  Begum  (2)	 Mr.Justice	 Fletcher, has taken a contrary view.  He  has	heldthat " a sale by a receiver under the direction of court  isnot  a sale by court and in such a sale the court  does	 notgrant a sale certificate nor does it confirm the sale."	 Thelearned judge referred to the(1) [1894] I.L.R. 21 Cal. 479.(2) (1910) 16 C.W.N. 394.208earlier decision of Sale, J., and dissented from him. It  isunnecessary for us to consider the correctness or  otherwiseof this decision. Fletcher, J., adhered to the same view in Jogemaya Dasee v.Akhoy Coomar Das (1).	     In that case the learned  judgewas   dealing	with  the  sale	 of  properties	      by theCommissioner  of Partition, and he held that such a sale  isnot one by the court but is one made by the Commissioner  ofPartition under the authority of the court. Chaudhuri, J., considered the same question in Basir Ali v.Hafiz  Nazir Ali (2 ) and held that in all sales whether  bythe  court or under the court or by direction of  the  courtout  of court the purchaser is bound to satisfy	 himself  ofthe value, quality and title of the thing sold just as	muchas if he were purchasing the same under a private  contract.According  to this decision the sales certificate  does	 nottransfer  the  title.	It  is	evidence  of  the  transfer.Accordingly,-he	  directed.  the  receiver  to	 execute   aconveyance in favour of the purchaser.	This decision is notquite  consistent  with	 the  view  taken  by  Mr.   JusticeFletcher. In  Rani Bala Bose v. Hirendra Chandra	 Ghose	Chakravarti,J.,  as	 he  then was, has  incidentally  referred  to	thisconflict of judicial opinion in the Calcutta High Court, andhas indicated his preference for the view taken by Sale, J.,though	he  has been careful enough to add that he  was	 notdeciding  the  point  and that the case with  which  he	 wasconcerned  was	not  covered  by  the  actual  decision	  ofFletcher, J. These	decisions show that there has been a  divergence  ofopinion	 as to the character of the sale held by a  receiveras to whether it is a sale by the court, or under the court,or  under  the directions of the court.	 It is	because	 ourattention  has been invited to these decisions that we	havethought	 it  necessary	to make it clear  that	our  presentdecision  is confined to the narrow question as	 to  whetherthe  sale held by a receiver attracts the provisions  of  0.21, r. 89.  We(1)  (1912) I.L.R. 40 Cal. 140.	 (2) (1916) I.L.R.  43	Cal.124.(3) (1948) 52 C.W.N. 739.209hold  that r. 89 of 0. 21 does not apply to such a sale	 andthat  the High Court was right in rejecting the	 appellants'claim based on the said rule.The result is the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.			    Appeal dismissed.