PETITIONER:PIRGONDA HONGONDA PATIL	Vs.RESPONDENT:KALGONDA SHIDGONDA PATIL AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/02/1957BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1957 AIR  363		  1957 SCR  595ACT:Amendment  of  Plaint-Addition of further and  better  particulars of the claim-Nature of reliefs not altered-Fresh suitor  the	 date  of  amendment  barred  by  limitation-Whetheramendment  should be allowed-Code of Civil Procedure (Act  Vof 1908), O. VI r.  17, 0. XXI, rr. 97, 99, 103.HEADNOTE:S. obtained a decree of, ejectment against the third respon-dent  and  while  attempting  to  take	possession  of	 theproperties  ir execution of the decree he was obstructed  bythe  appellant	and  the  application  for  removal  of	 theobstruction  was dismissed by the Court on April  12,  1947.He thereupon filed the present suil on March 12, 1948, under0.  XXI,  r.  103, of the Code of  Civil  Procedure,  for  adeclaration  that he was entitled to recovery possession  ofthe suit properties, impleading the appellant and the  thirdrespondent.   In the plaint, apart from the decree  obtainedin the earlier suit no particular averments were made as  tothe facts or grounds on which the plaintiff based his  titleto  the suit properties as against the appellant.   Both  inhis application dated November 2o, 1948, and in his  writtenstatement, the appellant,objected to the maintainability  ofthe  suit  on  the grounds that he was not a  party  to	 theprevious  suit	and that the plaint disclosed  no  cause  ofaction	against him.  On March 20, 1950, when the  suit	 wastaken  up for trial on the preliminary issue as	 to  whetherthe  suit as framed was tenable, an application was made  bythe  plaintiff	for the amendment of the  plaint  by  givingfurther	 and  better particulars of the claim  made  in	 theplaint.	  The  trial  judge  rejected  the  application	 anddismissed  the suit, but the High Court, on appeal,  allowedthe  application.  The appellant appealed by  special  leaveand contended that the application for amendment should	 nothave been allowed because (1) on the date of the applicationfor amendment, the period of limitation for a suit under  0.XXI,  r. 103, Code of Civil Procedure, had already  expired,and (2) though the attention of the plaintiff to the  defectin the original plaint 'had been drawn as early as  November2o, 1948, no application for amendment was made till.  March29, 1950.Held, that the application for amendment was rightly allowedby  the	 High Court, because the amendments did	 not  reallyintroduce  any new case nor alter the nature of the  reliefssought,	 and,  though  the application was  made  after	 theexpiry of the period of limitation for a suit under 0. XXI,r.   103,  Code	 of Civil Procedure, the appellant  did	 nothave to77596meet anew case and he was not taken by surprise; nor did  hehave to meet a new claim set up for the first time after theexpiry of the period of limitation.Charan Das v. Amir Khan (L.  R. 47 I.A. 255), relied on.L.  J. Leach & Co. v. Jardine Skinner & CO.  ([1957]  S.C.R.438), followed.Observations  of  Batchelor  J.	 in  Kisandas  Rupchand	  v.Rachappa Vithoba (I.L.R. 33 Bom. 644, 649), approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 228 of 1953.Appeal	by special leave from the Judgment and Decree  datedSeptember 6,1951, of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 496of  1950 from the Judgment and Decree dated March 31,  1950,of  the	 Civil Judge, -Senior Division,	 Kolhapur  in  CivilSuit.  No. 23 of 1949.S.   C.	 Isaacs,  S.  N. Andley, Rameshwar Nath	 and  J.  B.Dadachanji, for the appellant.Achhru Ram, G. A. Desai and Naunit Lal, for respondents Nos.1 and 2.1957.	February 7. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS J.-This is an appeal by special leave from	 thejudgment  and  decree  of the High  Court  of  Bombay  datesSeptember 6, 1951, by which the said High Court set aside onappeal	the  decree  passed  by	 the  Civil  Judge   (SeniorDivision)  Kolhapur, in Civil Suit No. 23/49 and allowed  anamendment  of the plaint at the appellate stage, subject  tocertain conditions, in the circumstances stated below.The  appellant	before us was defendant No. 1 in  the  suit.Respondents 1 and 2 are the heirs of the original  plaintiffand respondent No. 3 was defendant No. 2 in the action.	  In1942 the original plaintiff filed a suit against  respondentNo.  3 for possession of the suit properties and obtained  adecree	in  ejectment on March 28, 1944.   This	 decree	 wasconfirmed  in appeal on July 9, 1945.  On a further  appeal,the  then Supreme Court of Kolhapur affirmed the  decree  onApril 2, 1946.	In the meantime, the original plaintiff madean application for execution of the decree but was  resistedor597obstructed by the present appellant in obtaining  possessionof  the said properties.  He then made an application  under0. XXI, r. 97 of the Code of Civil Procedure, complaining ofsuch resistance or obstruction.	 This application was  heardand  dismissed	under  0. XXI, r. 99 of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure,  on	April  12, 1947.  On  March  12,  1948,	 theoriginal  plaintiff instituted the suit (out of	 which	thisappeal has arisen) under 0. XXI, r. 103 of the Code of CivilProcedure, for a declaration that he was entitled to recoverpossession of the suit properties from the present appellantwho was impleaded as the first defendant.Prior to its amendment, the plaint stated: "Defendant No.  2in  collusion  with defendant No. 1 caused objection  to  besubmitted  against  the said execution.	 The  plaintiff	 hadconducted  misc.  Suit No. 5/1946 for getting possession  ofthe   suit  properties,	 getting  the	objection   removed.However,  that	miscellaneous proceeding  has  been  decidedagainst	 the plaintiff.	 Therefore, the plaintiff has  filedthe present suit for getting declared that the plaintiff hasright  to  take	 possession of	the  suit  property  againstdefendants Nos.	 I and 2." Apart from the decree obtained inthe  earlier suit, no particular averments were made  as  tothe facts or grounds on which the plaintiff based his title,to  the	 properties in suit as against	the  appellant.	  Anapplication  was made on behalf of the present appellant  onNovember  20,  1948, in which it was pointed  out  that	 theplaintiff filed the suit on the basis of the decision in  anearlier suit to which the present appellant was not a party.It was then stated: " As the defendant is not a party in thesaid  decree, the plaintiff will not acquire  any  ownershipwhatever  against the defendant from the said  decree.	 Andthe  plaintiff has not given even the slightest	 explanationas  to	how  he has ownership  against	the  defendant.	  Sopermission should not be hereafter given to the plaintiff tomake amendment in respect of showing ownership".  A copy  ofthis  application was made over to the learned	pleader	 forthe plaintiff who noted thereon as follows:"The  plaintiff 's suit is under 0. XXI, r. 103 of the	Codeof Civil Procedure.  Hence relief which can be598granted as per this provision may be granted." An  objectionwas  also taken with regard to the description of  the	suitproperties in the schedule.  This objection was however	 metby making the necessary amendment.On  December  20,  1949) the  present  appellant  filed	 hiswritten	 statement and, inter alia, took the objection	thatthe,  suit  was not maintainable against him as	 the  plaintdisclosed no cause of action so far as he was concerned.   Apreliminary issue was then struck on January 19, 1950, whichraised' the question whether the suit as framed was  tenableagainst the appellant.	When the trial of this issue  began,an application was made on March 29, 1950, on behalf of	 theoriginal plaintiff for permission to give further and betterparticulars  of the claim made in the plaint, and  for	thatpurpose	 the plaintiff wanted to insert a new  paragraph  aspara 1(a) in the plaint and a few sentences in para 3. It isnecessary  to  quote  these here,  because  these  were	 theamendments subsequently allowed by the learned Judges of theHigh Court of Bombay by their order dated September 6, 1951.The new paragraph was in these terms: " In the	Ichalkaranjivillage	 there are two independent Patil  families  'taxima,viz.,  Mulki  (Revenue) Patil and Police  Patil.   The	suitproperties  are the Inam lands in the Police, Patil  family.A woman by name Bhagirathibai, wife of Shivagonda Patil, wasthe  Navwali 'warchi Vatandar' (representative Vatandar)  ofthe Police Patil family.  This woman died in the year  1936.Due  to	 the  death of the  woman  the	-plaintiff  acquiredheirship-ownership over the suit property as the near  heir.The  suit  properties were in the possession and  under	 thevahiwat	 of defendant No. 2 without right.   Therefore,	 theplaintiff  filed  Suit No. 3/1942 for getting  declared	 hisownership   of	the  suit  property  and  for  getting	 thepossession thereof.  In Appeal No. 9/44 and Supreme   AppealNo.  5/46 preferred therefrom the plaintiff was	 unanimouslydeclared to be the heir and the owner and the possession  ofthe suit properties had been granted to the plaintiff."	 Thesentences to be added to paragraph 3 were: " Defendant No. 1is from the Mulki599(Revenue) Patil family.	 He has nothing to do with the	suitproperty in the Police Patil family."By  his order dated March 31, 1950, the learned Civil  Judgerejected  the application and on the same day  he  dismissedthe  suit on the ground that the plaint made out no case  oftitle against defendant No. 1, appellant before us, who	 wasnot  a Party to the earlier suit in ejectment in  which	 theplaintiff  had	obtained a decree against defendant  No.  2.From this judgment and decree of the learned Civil Judge  anappeal was taken to the High Court of Bombay and the learnedJudges of the High Court allowed an amendment of the  plaintafter  putting	the  plaintiff on terms as  to	costs,	etc.While allowing the amendment the learned Judges observed:  "We  realise  that  by doing what we propose  to	 do  we	 maydeprive	 the first defendant of a very valuable right  whichhe claims he has acquired, namely, that of pleading a bar oflimitation  against  the amended plaint, but we	 are  guidedmore  in  this	matter	by  regard  to	the  principles	  ofsubstantial  justice  and  we  think that  if  we  can	makesufficient  compensation  to the first defendant  by  makingdrastic	 orders	 of  costs in his  favour  and	against	 theplaintiff, we shall not be doing any injustice to him.	Thisis,  after all, a question of title to the property  and  wewould be justified in making this observation that when	 thesuit  in ejectment was filed by Shidgonda  against  PirgondaAnnappa	 in  the year 1942 he based it on his title  to	 thesuit property and it was only against Pirgonda Annappa	thathe  had obtained the decree.  When this decree which he	 hadobtained against Pirgonda Annappa, the second defendant, wasmentioned as a starting point-in the plaint as it came to befiled,	it  would not be stretching too much of a  point  infavour of the plaintiff to observe that the decree which he-had  obtained  against	the second  defendant,	having	beenobtained on the strength of his title to the suit  property,was	 really	    one	    of	   his	   documents	  oftitle..................... So far as the first defendant wasconcerned,  the averment necessary under 0. XXI, r. 103,  ofthe  Code of Civil Procedure, was that the, first  defendantwas wrongfully obstructing600the plaintiff from obtaining possession of the suit propertyin execution of the decree which he had obtained against the2nd  defendant	in  a suit  regularly  constituted  in	thatbehalf.	 This being the position, we think we are not  doingany  injustice	to  the	 first defendant  if  we  allow	 theplaintiff  to  amend his plaint even at this late  stage  byputting in the paragraphs in the plaint as suggested by	 himin his application for further and better particulars  filedin March 1950.	"The  appellant then obtained special leave from this  Court,and filed the present appeal.  The main point which has beenargued	before us on behalf of the appellant is that in	 thecircumstances  of this case the learned Judges of  the	HighCourt  were wrong in allowing an amendment of the plaint  atsuch  a	 late  stage.  It may be stated	 here  that  learnedcounsel	 for the appellant did not argue that the  appellateCourt  had no jurisdiction or power to allow the  amendment.His submission was that even though the appellate Court	 hadsuch power or' jurisdiction, that power should not have beenexercised  in  the circumstances of the present	 case.	 Twosuch  circumstances were greatly emphasised before us.	 Onewas  that the period of limitation for a suit under 0.	XXI,r. 103, of the Code of Civil Procedure, had already  expiredbefore	March  29, 1950, on which date the  application	 foramendment  or for giving further and better particulars	 wasmade.  The second circumstance which learned counsel for theappellant emphasised was that the attention of the plaintiffto  the defect in the original plaint had been drawn by	 theapplication filed on behalf of the appellant on November 20,1948,  and in spite of that application, no  amendment	war,asked for till March 29, 1950.Both  these  circumstances  were  fully	 considered  by	 thelearned Judges of the High Court.  It is worthy of note thatthe period of limitation for a suit under 0. XXI, r. 103  ofthe Code of Civil Procedure, namely, one year from the	dateof the adverse order made under r. 99 of 0. XXI, bad expiredsome  time  before  November  20,1948,	on  which  date	 theappellant made601his first application pointing out the defect in the plaint,the  adverse order under 0. XXI, r. 99, having been made  onApril 12, 1947.	 The application which the appellant made onNovember  20,  1948, had not the merit	of  such  beneficentpurpose	 as is now sought to be made out by learned  counselfor  the  appellant.   When the application  was  made,	 theperiod of limitation had already expired, and the  appellantvery clearly said that no permission should be given to	 theplaintiff  to  make  an amendment  thereafter.	 We  do	 nottherefore think that the appellant can make much capital outof the application made on his behalf on November 20, 1948.Recently, we have had occasion to consider a similar  prayerfor amendment in L. J. Leach & Co. v. Jardine Skinner &	 Co.(1)  where,  in allowing an amendment of the  plaint  in  anappeal before us, we said: " It is no doubt true that courtswould,	as a rule, decline to allow amendments, if  a  freshsuit  on the amended claim would be barred by limitation  onthe  date  of the application.	But that is a factor  to  betaken  into  account  in exercise of the  discretion  as  towhether amendment should be ordered, and does not affect thepower  of the court to order it, if that is required in	 theinterests  of justice.", These observations were made  in  acase  where damages were, originally claimed on the  footingof  conversion	of goods.  We held, in	agreement  with	 thelearned	 Judges of the High Court, that on the evidence	 theclaim  for damages on the footing of conversion	 must  fail.The  plaintiffs then applied to this Court for amendment  ofthe  plaint  by	 raising, in the alternative,  a  claim	 fordamages	 for  breach  of contract for  non-delivery  of	 thegoods.	The application was resisted by the respondents	 andone  of	 the grounds of resistance was that  the  period  oflimitation had expired.	 We accepted as correct the decisionin Charan Das v. Amir Khan (2) which laid down that " thoughthere  was  full power to make the amendment, such  a  powershould	not, as a rule be exercised where the effect was  totake away from a defendant, a legal right which had  accruedto him by(1) [1957] S.C.R. 438,	      (2) [1920] L.R. 47 I.A. 255.602lapse  of  time;  yet there were  cases	 where	such  consi-derations  were outweighed by the special  circumstances  ofthe case ".As pointed out in Charan Das' case (1), the power  exercisedwas  undoubtedly  one within the discretion of	the  learnedJudges.	  All that can be urged is that the  discretion	 wasexercised on a wrong principle.	 We do not think that it wasso  exercised in the present case The facts of	the  presentcase  are  very similar to those of the	 case  before  theirLordships  of  the  Privy  Council.   In  the  latter,	 therespondents  sued for a declaration of their right  of	pre-emption	 over certain land, a form of suit which  would	 notlie  having regard to the proviso to s. 42 of  the  SpecificRelief	Act  (I	 of 1877).  The trial Judge  and  the  firstappellate Court refused to allow the plaint to be amended byclaiming  possession  on  pre-emption, since  the  time	 hadexpired	 for bringing a suit to enforce the right.   Upon  asecond	appeal the Court allowed the amendment to  be  made,there being no ground for suspecting that the plaintiffs hadnot  acted  in good faith, and the  proposed  amendment	 notaltering  the  nature  of the relief sought.   In  the	casebefore	us, there was a similar defect in the plaint  ,	 andthe trial Judge refused to allow the plaint to be amended onthe ground that the period of limitation for a suit under 0.XXI,  r. 103, of the Code of Civil Procedure,  had  expired.The  learned  Judges of the High Court rightly	pointed	 outthat  the  mistake in the trial Court was more that  of	 thelearned pleader and the proposed amendment did not alter thenature of the reliefs sought.Learned	 counsel  for  the  appellant  referred	 us  to	 thedecision in Kisandas Bupchand v. Rachappa Vithoba and placedgreat reliance on the observations of Beaman J. at P. 655: "In  my opinion, two simple tests, and two only, need  to  beapplied,  in  order  to ascertain whether a  given  case  iswithin	the  principle.	 First, could the  party  asking  toamend  obtain  the  same  quantity  of	relief	without	 theamendment  ?  If not, then it follows necessarily  that	 theproposed amendment places the other party at a disadvantage,(1) [1920] L.R. 47 I.A. 255.(2) [1900] I.L.R. 33 Bom. 644.603it allows his opponent to obtain more from him than he wouldhave been able to obtain but for the amendment.	 Second,  inthose  circumstances,  can  the	 party	thus  placed  at   adisadvantage  be compensated for it by costs ? If not,	thenthe  amendment ought not, unless the case is so peculiar  asto be taken out of the scope of the rule, to be allowed." Hecontended  that	 the first test laid down in  the  aforesaidobservations  was not fulfilled in the present case.  We  donot  agree with this contention.  First, it is not  feasiblenor  advisable	to encase a discretionary power	 within	 thestrait jacket of an inflexible formula.	 Second , we do	 notthink that the " quantity of relief," an expression somewhatdifficult   of	 appreciation	or   application   in	 allcircumstances,	was  in any way affected by  the  amendmentsallowed	 to  be	 made in this case.  What  happened  in	 thepresent case was that there was a defect in the plaint whichstood in the way of the plaintiff asking for the reliefs  heasked  for; that defect was removed by the amendments.	 Thequality	 and  quantity of the reliefs  sought  remained	 thesame;  whether	the reliefs should be granted or  not  is  adifferent  matter  as  to which we are not  called  upon  toexpress	 any  opinion  at this stage.	We  think  that	 thecorrect	 principles were enunciated by Batchelor J.  in	 hisjudgment  in  the  same	 Case,	ViZ.,  Kisandas	  Rupchand'scase(1), when he said at pp. 649-650: "All amendments  oughtto  be allowed which satisfy the two conditions (a)  of	 notworking	 injustice  to	the other side,	 and  (b)  of  beingnecessary for the purpose of determining the real  questionsin controversy between the parties............ but I refrainfrom citing further authorities, as, in my opinion, they alllay  down precisely the same doctrine.	That doctrine, as  Iunderstand  it,	 is that amendments should be  refused	onlywhere the other party cannot be placed in the same  positionas  if	the pleading had been originally  correct,  but	 theamendment  would  cause	 him an injury which  could  not  becompensated  in	 costs.	 It is merely a particular  case  ofthis  general rule that where a plaintiff seeks to amend  bysetting up a fresh claim in(1)  [1900] I.L.R. 33 Bom. 644.78604respect of a cause of action which since the institution  ofthe suit had become barred by limitation, the amendment mustbe  refused; to allow it would be to cause the defendant  aninjury which could not be compensated in costs by  deprivinghim  of	 a  good defence to the claim.	 The  ultimate	testtherefore  still  remains  the same: can  the  amendment  beallowed	 without  injustice to the other side,,	 or  can  itnot?"  Batchelor J. made these observations in a case  wherethe  claim was for dissolution of partnership and  accounts,the plaintiffs alleging that in pursuance of, a	 partnershipagreement  they had delivered Rs. 4,001 worth of  cloth	 to,the  defendants.   The	Subordinate  Judge  found  that	 theplaintiffs   did,  deliver  the	 cloth,	 but  came  to	 theconclusion   that  no  partnership  was	 created.   At	 theappellate  stage,  the	plaintiffs; abandoned  the  plea  ofpartnership and prayed for leave to amend by adding a prayerfor the. recovery of Rs. 4,001.	 At that date the claim	 forthe  money was barred by limitation.  It was held  that	 theamendment was rightly allowed, as the claim was not a newclaim.The  same principles, we hold, should apply in	the  presentcase.	The amendments do not really introduce a  new  case,and  the application filed by the appellant  himself  showedthat he was not taken by surprise; nor did he have to meet anew claim set up for the first time after the expiry of	 theperiod of limitation.For these reasons, we see no I merit in the appeal, which isaccordingly dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.605