PETITIONER:HANSKUMAR KISHANCHAND	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:22/08/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  947		  1959 SCR 1177ACT:       Appeal  to Supreme Court- Maintainability-Decision  of  High       Court in appeal from an award-If and when a judgment, decree       or  order-Test-Defence  of  India Act, 1939  (No.   XXXV	 of       1939), ss. 19(1)(b), 19(1)(f)-Code of Civil Procedure (Act V       of 1908), ss. 109, 110.HEADNOTE:These two appeals were preferred against the decision of theNagpur	High  Court in an appeal under's.  19(1)(f)  of	 theDefence	  of  India  Act,  1939,  modifying  an	  award	  ofcompensation made1178under s. 19(i)(b) of that Act in respect of certain premisesrequisitioned  by  the Government under 75(A) of  the  Rulesframed	under  the Act.	 Both the parties  applied  for	 andobtained leave to appeal to the Federal Court under ss.	 109and  110  of  the Code of Civil	 Procedure.   A	 preliminaryobjection  was	taken on behalf of the Government  that	 thedecision of the High Court was an award and not a  judgment,decree or order within the meaning of ss. 109 and 110 of theCode and as such no appeal lay therefrom :Held, that the objection must prevail and both the appealsstand dismissed.There  could  be no doubt that an appeal to the	 High  Courtunder s. 19(1)(f) Of the Defence of India Act from an  awardmade  under  s.	 19(i)(b) of that  Act	was  essentially  anarbitration    proceeding and as such the decision  in	suchappeal cold not be a  judgment, decree or order either underthe Code- of civil procedure or under Cl. 29 Of the  Letterspatent of the Nagpur High Court.Kollegal Silk Filatures Ltd. v. province, of Madyas, I.	 I,.R. [1948] Mad. 490, approved.There  is a well-recognised distinction between	 a  decisiongiven  by the Court in a case which it 'hears on merits	 andone given by it in a proceeding for the filing of an  award.The  former  is	 a judgment, decree or order  of  the  Courtappellable  under  the general law while, the latter  is  anadjudication  of a private individual with the	sanction  ofthe  Court  stamped on it and where it does not	 exceed	 theterms of the reference, it is final and not appealable.There can be no difference in law between an arbitaration byagreement of parties and one under a statute.  A  referrenceto  arbitration	 under	a statute to a court may  be  to  iteither as a court or as an arbitrator.	If it is to it as  acourt,	 the  decision	is  a  judgment,  decree  or   orderappealable  under  the	ordinary  law  unless  the   statuteprovides  otherwise,  while  in the latter  case  the  Courtfunctions  as  a persona designata and its decision  is	 airaward  not appealable under the ordinary law but only  underthe statute and to the extent provided by it.An  appeal being essentially a continuation of the  originalproceedings,  what  *as	 at  its  inception  an	 arbitrationproceeding  must  retain  its character	 as  an	 arbitrationproceeding even where the statute provides for an appeal,Rangoon	 Botatung Company v. The Collecter , Rangoon  (1912)L.R.  39  I.A. 197 .The special officer sales  the  buildingsites  Dassabhai  Beznoji,  (1912) I.L.R.  37  Bom  506	 thespecial	 officer  sales	 the  Building	sites  v.  DassabhaiBozanji Motiwala (1913) 17 C.W.N. 421 Manavikram  Tirumalpadv.  the Collector of the Nilagrie, (1918) I.L.R. 41 Mad	 943and  secretary of state for India in council   v.  HindustanCo-operative Insurance society Limited ,(1931) L.R. 58 I.  A259 relied on.1179.National  Telephone Company Limited  v.	 Postmaster-General,[1913] A. C. 546, explained.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 224 and 225of 1954.Appeals	 from the judgment dated December 31, 1947,  of	 theformer Nagpur High Court in Misc. (First)Appeal No. 310 of 1943, arising out of the Award dated March31,  1943, of the Court of the Arbitrator, Addl.  Dist.	 andSessions Judge, Khandwa.Achhru	Ram  and  Naunit Lal, for appellant (In	 C.  A.	 No.224/54) and respondent (In C. A. No. 225/54).C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General for India, R.  GanapathyIyer and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent (In C. A. No.  224/54)and appellant (In C. A. No. 225/54).1958.	August 22.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-Both these appeals are directed againstthe judgment of the High Court of Nagpur passed in an appealunder  s.  19(1)  (f) of the Defence  of  India	 Act,  1939,hereinafter referred to as the Act.In exercise of the power conferred by s. 75(A) of the  Rulesframed	under the Act, the Central Government  requisitionedon  February  19,  1941,  certain  properties  belonging  toHanskumar Kishanchand, the appellant in Civil-Appeal No. 224of  1954.   As	there  was no agreement	 on  the  amount  ofcompensation payable to him, the Central Government referredthe determination thereof to Mr. Jafry, Additional  DistrictJudge, Khandwa, under s. 19(1) (b) of the Act.	On March 31,1943,  Mr. Jafry pronounced his award, by which lie  awardeda. sum of Rs. 13,000 as annual rent -for, the occupation  ofthe  premises.	Against this award, there was an  appeal  tothe High Court of Nagpur under s. 19(1) (f) of the Act,	 andthat  was  heard by a Bench consisting of Grille C.  J.	 andPadhve	J. By their judgment dated December 31,	 1947,	theyenhanced  the annual rent payable to the appellant by a	 sumof  Its. 3,250, and they also allowed certain other sums  ascompensation for dislocation of the High School which1501180was  being run on the property.	 The appellant	applied	 forleave  to appeal against this judgment to the Federal  Courtunder  ss.  109 and I 10 of the Code of Civil  Procedure  inrespect	 of the amounts disallowed.  A	similar	 applicationwas  also  filed  by the Government with  reference  to	 theenhancement of compensation.  On August 25, 1949, both theseapplications were granted, and a certificate was issued thatthe appeals fulfilled the requirements of ss. 109 and 110 ofthe  Code of Civil Procedure.  That is how the	two  appealscome  before us.  Hanskumar Kishanchand is the appellant  inCivil  Appeal  No. 224 of 1954 and the Union  of  India,  inCivil Appeal No. 225 of 1954.At  the opening of the hearing, a preliminary objection	 wastaken	 by   the   learned   Solicitor-General	   to	 themaintainability	 of  Civil  Appeal No. 224 of  1954  on	 theground that the judgment of the High Court passed in  appealunder  s. 19(1) (f) was an award and not a judgment,  decreeor  order within the meaning of ss. 109 and 110 of the	Codeof  Civil  Procedure, and that accordingly  the	 appeal	 wasincompetent.  If this contention is right, Civil Appeal	 No.225  of	 1954  preferred by the	 Government  would  also  beincompetent.   That,  of  course,  does	 not  preclude	 theGovernment   from   raising   the  objection   as   to	 themaintainability	 of  the appeal, though the  result  of	 ourupholding it would entail the dismissal of Civil Appeal	 No.225 of 1954 as' well.  We accordingly proceed to dispose  ofthe objection on the merits.It  will  be  convenient  at this  stage  to  refer  to	 theprovisions of the Act bearing upon the present, controversy.Section 19(1) provides that:" Where...... any action is taken of the nature decribed  insub-section  (2) of section 299 of the Government  of  IndiaAct,  1935, there shall be paid compensation, the amount  ofwhich  shall be determined in the manner, and in  accordancewith the principles, hereinafter set out........."Section	 19(1) (a) provides for the amount  of	compensationbeing fixed by agreement, and s. 19(1) (b) enacts that :"  Where  no  such agreement can  be  reached,	the  CentralGovernment shall appoint as arbitrator a1181person qualified under sub-section (3) of section 220 of theabove-mentioned	 Act  for appointment as a Judge of  a	HighCourt."Sub-section (c) of s. 19(1) provides for the appointment  bythe  Central Government of a person having expert  knowledgeas  to	the  nature of the property  acquired  and  for	 thenomination  of an assessor by the person to be	compensated,for  the purpose of assisting the  arbitrator.	 Sub-section(e)  of	 s. 19(1) enacts that the arbitrator in	 making	 hisaward  shall have regard to the provisions of sub-s. (1)  ofs. 23 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, so far as the	samecan  be	 made applicable.  Then comes sub-s. (f),  which  isimportant for the present purpose, and it is as follows:"An  appeal shall lie to the High Court against an award  ofan arbitrator except in cases where the amount thereof	doesnot exceed an amount prescribed in this behalf by rule	madeby the Central Government."Then we have sub-s. (g), which is as follows:"  Save	 as provided in this section and in any	 rules	madethereunder,  nothing in any law for the time being in  forceshall apply to arbitrations under this section."On  these  provisions,	the  contention	 on  behalf  of	 theGovernment is that the reference under s. 19(1),(b) and	 theappeal	under s. 19(1) (f) are all arbitration	proceedings,that the decision of the High Court in the appeal is  reallyan  award,  and that it is, in consequence,  not  appealableunder  ss.  109 and 110 of the Code of Civil  Procedure,  asthey  apply only to judgments, decrees or orders  of  Courtsand not to awards.  Mr. Achbru Ram, learned counsel for	 theappellant  does	 not dispute that the proceedings  under  s.19(1)  (b) are by way of arbitration, but he  contends	thatwhen  once the matter comes before the High Court by way  ofappeal	under  s. 19(1)(f), it becomes	a  civil  proceedingunder  the ordinary jurisdiction of the Court, and that	 anydecision therein is open to appeal under ss. 109 and I 10 ofthe Code of Civil Procedure.  He further contends that	evenapart from those provisions, the appeal was competent  underCl. 29 of the Letters Patent, and that,1182the  certificate  granted by the High Court  is	 under	thatprovision as well.Before	discussing the authorities cited on either  side  insupport	 of their respective contentions, it will be  usefulto  state the well_established principles applicable to	 thedetermination  of the present question.	 When parties  enterinto   an  agreement  to  have	their  dispute	settled	  byarbitration, its effect is to take the lis out of the  handsof the ordinary Courts of the land and to entrust it to	 thedecision  of what has been termed a private tribunal.	Suchan  agreement  is not hit by s. 28 of the  Contract  Act  asbeing  in restraint of legal proceedings, because s.  21  ofthe  Specific Relief Act expressly provides that "  save  asprovided by the Arbitration Act, 1940, no contract to  referpresent	 or  future  differences  to  arbitration  shall  bespecifically enforced ; but if any person who has made	sucha contract ... and has refused to perform it sues in respectof  any	 subject  which	 he has	 contracted  to	 refer,	 theexistence  of such contract shall bar the suit." There is  asimilar	 provision  in s. 28 of the Contract  Act  which  isapplicable,  where  the	 Arbitration Act is  not  in  force.Where  an  arbitration	is  held in  pursuance	of  such  anagreement  and	that results in a  decision,  that  decisiontakes  the place of an adjudication by the ordinary  Courts,and  the rights of the parties are thereafter  regulated  byit.   It  is  true that under the law the  Courts  have	 theauthority  to set aside the award,-, made by arbitrators  oncertain	 grounds  such	as  that they  are  on	matters	 notreferred  to  arbitration,  or	that  the  arbitrators	 hadmisconducted themselves, or that there are errors apparentlythe  face of the award.	 But where the award is not open  toany such objection, the Court has to pass a decree in  termsof  the	 award, and under s. 17 of the Arbitration  Act,  anappeal lies against such a decree only on the ground that itis  in	excess of, or not otherwise in accordance  with	 theaward.	In other words, it is the decision of the arbitratorwhere  it  is  not  set aside  that  operates  as  the	realadjudication  binding on the parties, and it is with a	viewto its enforcement that the, Court 'is authorised to pass  adecree in terms thereof.  There is thus a sharp	 distinctionbetween a1183decision which is pronounced by a Court in a cause which  ithears  on  the	merits, and one which is given by  it  in  aproceeding  for	 the filing of an award.  The  former  is  ajudgment,  decree or order rendered in the exercise  of	 itsnormal jurisdiction as a Civil Court, and that is appealableunder  the  general law as for example, under ss.  96,	100,104, 109 and 110 of the Code of Civil Procedure.  The latteris an adjudication of a private tribunal with the imprimaturof the Court stamped on it, and to the extent that the awardis  within the terms of the reference, it is final  and	 notappealable.   The  position  in law is	the  same  when	 thereference  to  arbitration is made not	under  agreement  ofparties	 but under provisions of a statute.  The  result  ofthose  provisions again is to withdraw the dispute from	 thejurisdiction of the ordinary courts and to refer it for	 thedecision of a private tribunal.	 That decision is an  award,and  stands  on	 the  same  footing  as	 an  award  made  onreference,  under  agreement  of parties.  It  is  for	thisreason	that s. 46 of the Arbitration Act X of	1940  enactsthat:"  The	provisions  of this Act, except	 subsection  (1)  ofsection 6 and sections 7, 12, 36 and 37 shall apply to everyarbitration under any other enactment for the time being  inforce, as if the arbitration were pursuant to an arbitrationagreement   and	 as  if	 that,	other  enactment   were	  anarbitration  agreement;	 except	 in so far as  this  Act  isinconsistent  with that, other enactment or with  any  rulesmade thereunder.  "Nor  does it make any difference in the legal position	thatthe reference under the statute is to a Court as arbitrator.In  that  case, the Court hears the matter not	as  a  CivilCourt but as persona designata, and its decision will be  anaward  not open to appeal under the ordinary law  applicableto  decisions of Courts.  A statute, however, might  providefor the decision of a dispute by a Court as Court and not asarbitrator, in which ease, its decision will be a decree  ororder of Court in its ordinary civil jurisdiction, and	thatwill attract the normal procedure governing the decision  ofthat  Court,  and  a right of appeal  will  be	comprehendedtherein.  The position therefore is that if the1184reference  is to a Court as persona designata, its  decisionwill  not  be open to appeal except to the extent  that	 thestatute	 so provides; but that if, on the other hand, it  isto  a Court as Court, its decision will be appealable  underthe  general law, unless there is something in the  statute,which  abridges	 or takes away that incident.  It may  be  aquestion   whether  the	 reference  to	a  Court   under   aparticular  statute  is	 to  it as a  Court  or	 as  personadesignata ; but when once it is determined that it is to  itas  persona  designata, there call be no question  that	 itsdecision is not open to appeal under the ordinary law.We  shall  now	consider  the  authorities  hearing  on	 thequestion.   On	behalf of the Government, the  decisions  inRangoon Botatoung Company v. The Collector, Rangoon (1), TheSpecial	 Officer,  Salsette  Building  Sites  v.   DossabhaiBezonji (2), The Special Officer, Salsette Building Sites v.Dassabhai Bozanji Moti. wala (3), Manavikraman Tirumalpad v.The Collector of the Nilgris (4) and Secretary of State	 forIndia  in  Council  v.	Hindusthan  Co-operative   InsuranceSociety	 Limited  (5)  were  relied  on	 as  supporting	 thecontention  that  the present appeals are  incompetent.	  InRangoon Botatoung Company v. The Collector, Rangoon (1), thefacts were that certain properties had been acquired  tinderthe  Land  Aequistion  Act of 1894, and	 the  Collector	 haddetermined the amount of compensation payable to the quondamowners.	   On	their  objection  as  to  the	quantum	  ofcompensation, the matter was referred to the decision of theChief  Court  of  Burina.  It was heard by a  Bench  of	 twoJudges,	 who  determined  that a sum of	 Rs.  13,25,720	 waspayable	 as compensation.  Dissatisfied with this  decision,the  owners preferred an appeal to the Privy  Council  underthe  provisions	 of tile Code of Civil	Procedure.   A	pre-limilary  objection was taken to the maintainability of	 theappeal on the ground that the decision sought to be appealedagainst	 was  not a judgment of Court but an award  and	 wastherefore   not	 appealable.   In  giving  effect  to	thisobjection, the Board observed:" Their Lordships cannot accept the argument or(1) (1912)  39 I.A. 197.    (2) (1912) I.L.R. 37 Bom. 506.(3) (1913) 17 C.W.N. 421.   (4) (1918) I.L.R. 41 Mad. 943.(5) (193I) L.R. 58 I.A. 259.1185suggestion  that when once the claimant is admitted  to	 theHigh  Court  he has all the rights of  an  ordinary  suitor,including the right to carry an award made in an arbitrationas to the value of land taken for public purposes up to thisBoard  as if it were a decree of the High Court made in	 thecourse of its ordinary jurisdiction.  "Shortly	 after	this judgment was pronounced,  the  questionarose  for  determination in The special  officer,  SalsetteBuilding Sites v. Dossabhai Bezonji (1), whether a  decisiongiven  by the High Court in appeal under s. 54 of  the	LandAcquisition Act was a judgment within Cl. 39 of the  LettersPatent,	 so  as	 to enable a party to appeal  to  the  PrivyCouncil	 under	that  provision.  The  applicant  sought  todistinguish the decision in Rangoon Botatoung Company v. TheCollector,  Rangoon  (2)  on  the  ground  that	 there,	 thedecision sought to be appealed against was that of the ChiefCourt of Burma, and the question of maintainability fell  tobe  decided  on the terms of the, Code of  Civil  Procedure,whereas in the instant case, the party had a right to appealto the Privy Council under Cl. 39 of the Letters Patent.  Inrejecting  this contention, the High Court referred  to	 theobservations in Rangoon Botatoung Company's Case (2) alreadyquoted, and observed"  This passage shows that it is a mistake to  suppose	thatthe award made in such a case by the High Court is a  decreewithin	 the  ordinary	jurisdiction  to  which	 the   CivilProcedure  ("'ode  refers; and it seems to me  it  would  beequally	 erroneous  to	regard	such an	 award	as  a  finaljudgment  or  order within the meaning of clause 39  of	 theLetters Patent.	 "Leave  to  appeal  to  the  Privy  Council  was	 accordinglyrefused.  There was an application to the Privy Council	 forspecial	 leave in this matter, but that was  also  rejected,and  the report of the proceedings before the Privy  Councilin The special Officer, salsette Building Sites v. DassabhaiBasanji Motiwala (3)shows that the interpretation put by theBombay High Court in The Special officer, salsette  Buildingsites v. Dossabhai Bezonji (1) was accepted as correct.In Manavikraman Tirumalpad v. The Collector of the(1) (1912) I.L.R. 37 130m 506.(2) (1912) L.R. 39 I.A. 197.(3) (1913) 17 C.W.N......42I.1186 Niligris(1) the question was whether a judgment of the HighCourt passed in an appeal under the Land Acquisition Act wasa  judgment  within  the meaning of Cl. 15  of	the  LettersPatent so as to entitle a party to file a further appeal  tothe  High Court under that provision, and it was held, on  aconsideration of the authorities above referred to, that  itwas  not.   Secretary  of  State for  India  in	 Council  v.Hindusthan  Cooperative Insurance Society Limited (2)  is  adecision  under the Calcutta Improvement Act,  1911.   Underthat  Act, there is a tribunal constituted  for	 determiningthe  amount of compensation payable on acquisition of  land,and  under the Calcutta Improvement (Appeals) Act, 1911,  anappeal is provided in certain cases from the decision of thetribunal  to the Calcutta High Court.  The point that  arosefor determination was whether the decision given by the HighCourt  in  appeal under this provision was open	 to  furtherappeal	to  the	 Privy Council.	 In  answering	it  ill	 thenegative,  the	Privy Council observed that in view  of	 thedecision  in  Rangoon Botatoung Company	 v.  The  Collector,Rangoon	 (3), there could be no right of appeal against	 thedecision  of  the  High Court.	It further  held  that	thisconclusion  was	 not affected by the amendment of  the	LandAcquisition Act, 1921, providing for an appeal to the  PrivyCouncil	 against the decision of the High Court under s.  54of  that  Act, as that amendment could not be held  to	havebeen incorporated by reference in the Calcutta Improve-ment Act, 1911.The  law as laid down in the above authorities may  thus  besummed	up: It is not every decision given by a	 Court	thatcould  be said to be a judgment, decree or order within	 theprovisions  of	the Code of Civil Procedure or	the  LettersPatent.	 Whether it is so or not will depend on whether tileproceeding  in which it was given came before tile Court  inits  normal civil jurisdiction, or de hors it as  a  personadesignata.   Where the dispute is referred to the Court	 fordetermination by way of arbitration as in Rangoon  BotatoungCompany v. The Collector, Rangoon (3), or where it comes(1) (1918) I.L.R 41 Mad. 943.  (2) (1931) L.R. 58 I.A. 259.(3) (1912) L.R. 39 I.A. 197.1187by  way of appeal against what is statedly an award  as	 in'The  Special Officer, Salsette Building Sites  v.  DossabhaiBezonji (1), Manavikraman Tirumalpad v. The Collector of theNilgris	 (2) and Secretary of State for India in Council  v.Hindusthan  Co-operative Insurance Society Limited (3)	thenthe decision is not a judgment, decree or order under eitherthe Code of Civil Procedure or the Letters Patent.Now,  Mr.  Achhru Ram contests this  last  proposition,	 andrelies	strongly  on  the  decision  in	 National  TelephoneCompany Limited v. Postmaster-General (4), as supporting hisposition.  There, the question arose on the construction  ofcertain	  provisions   of   the	  Telegraph    (Arbitration)Act,   .1909.  Section	I  thereof  enacted   that   certaindifferences  between  the Postmaster-General and  any  otherperson	should,	 if  the parties  agreed,  be  referred	 fordecision  to  the Railway and Canal  Commission	 constitutedunder an Act of 1888 ; and s. 2 provided that all  enquiriesunder the reference should be conducted by the Commission inaccordance  with the Act of 1888.  Pursuant to	a  referenceunder these provisions, the Railway and Canal Commission haddetermined  certain disputes, and the question	was  whetherits decision was open to appeal.  Under the Act of 1888, theCommission  was constituted a Court of record and an  appeallay  against its decision to the Court of Appeal  except  onquestions  of  fact and locus standi.  It was  held  by	 theHouse  of Lords that as under the Act of 1888 the  referenceto the Commission was to it as a Court, the reference  underthe Telegraph (Arbitration) Act, 1909, to that tribunal mustalso  be  held to be to it as a Court and not as a  body  ofarbitrators,   and  an	appeal	against	 its  decision	 wastherefore  competent.	The  position  was  thus  stated  byViscount Haldane L. C.:" When a question is stated to be referred to an establishedCourt  without	more, it, iii my opinion, imports  that	 theordinary  incidents  of the procedure of that Court  are  toattach,	 and also that any general right of appeal from	 itsdecision likewise attaches."(1)  (1912) I.L.R. 37 Bom. 5o6.(2)  (1918) I.L.R. 41 Mad. 943.(3)  (1931) L.R. 58 I.A. 259.(4)  [1913] A.C. 546.1511188It  may	 be  noted  that  it was  the  use  of	the  word  "arbitration  "	in the title to the Act that  furnished	 theground	for the contention that the proceedings	 before	 theCommission  were  of the nature of  arbitration.   But	thatdescription, however, could not alter the true character  ofthe  reference	under  the Act, which was in  terms  to	 theCommission  as	a Court of record.  In fact,  there  was  noelement of arbitration in the -proceedings.  It is true thatunder that Act there could be a reference only by  agreementof parties.  That, however, could not make any difference inthe character of the proceedings before the Commission, as astatute can provide for the jurisdiction of the Court  beinginvoked	 as  a	Court on the agreement of  parties,  as	 forexample,  on  a case stated under Order 36 of  the  Code  ofCivil	Procedure.   There  is	thus  nothing  in   NationalTelephone  Company Limited v. Postmaster-General (1),  whichcan be said to conflict with the law as laid down in RangoonBotatoung  Company v. The Collector, Rangoon. (2) that	whenthe  reference is to a Court as arbitrator, its decision  isnot open to appeal.The distinction between the two classes of cases, where	 thereference is to court as court and where the reference is toit as arbitrator, was again pointed out by the Privy Councilin Secretary of State for India v. Chelikani  Rama Rao	(3).There,	 the  question	arose  with  reference	to   certainprovisions  of	the  Madras  Forest  Act,  1882.   That	 Actprovides  that	claims	to lands which	are.  sought  to  bedeclared  reserved  forests  by the  Government	 are  to  beenquired  into	by  the Forest Settlement  Officer,  and  anappeal	is  provided against his decision  to  the  DistrictCourt.	 The point for decision was whether the decision  ofthe  District  Court was open to further  appeal  under	 theprovisions  of the Code of Civil Procedure.  The  contentionwas  that the reference to the District Court under the	 Actwas  to	 it  not  as a Court but  as  arbitrator,  and	thattherefore  its	decision  was  not open	 to  appeal  on	 the-principle laid down in Rangoon Botatoung Company's Case  Inrepelling this contention,(1) [1913] A.C. 546.	    (2) (1912) L.R. 39 I.A. 197.(3)  (1916) L.R. 43 I.A, 192.1189Lord  Shaw observed that under the Land Acquisition Act	 theproceedings  were  ,from  beginning to	end  ostensibly	 andactually   arbitration'	  proceedings  ",   but	  that	 theproceedings under the Forest Act were essentially  differentin character.  " The claim was " he said, " the assertion ofa legal right to possession of and property in land; and  ifthe  ordinary Courts of the country are seized of a  disputeof  that character, it would require, in the opinion of	 theBoard,	a  specific  limitation	 to  exclude  the   ordinaryincidents of litigation"The  principles being thus well-settled, we have to  see  inthe  present case whether an appeal to the High Court  unders.  19(1)(f)  of the Act comes before it as a  Court  or  asarbitrator.  Under s. 19(1)(b), the reference is  admittedlyto  an arbitrator.  He need not even be a Judge of a  Court.It  is	sufficient that he is qualified to  be	appointed  aJudge of the High Court.  And under the law, no appeal wouldhave lain to the High Court against the decision of such  anarbitrator.   Thus,  the provision for appeal  to  the	HighCourt under s. 19(1)(f) can only be construed as a referenceto  it as an authority designated and not as a	Court.	 Thefact  that,  in	 the present case, the reference  was  to  aDistrict  Judge would not affect the position.	Then  again,the  decision of the arbitrator appointed under s.  19(1)(b)is  expressly referred to in s. 19(1)(f) as an award.	Now,an  appeal  is essentially a continuation  of  the  originalproceedings,  and if the proceedings under s.  19(1)(b)	 arearbitration  proceedings, it is difficult to see  how  theircharacter  can	suffer a change, when they  are	 brought  upbefore an appellate tribunal.  The decisions in The  SpecialOfficer,  Salsette Building Sites v. Dossabhai Bezonji	(1),The  Special Officer, Salsette Building Sites  v.  DassabhaiBasanji	  Motiwala  (2),  Manavikraman	Tirumalpad  v.	 TheCollector  of  the Nilgris (3) and Secretary  of  State	 forIndia  in  Council  v.	Hindusthan  Co-operative   InsuranceSociety	 Limited (4) proceed all on the view that an  appealagainst an award continues to be part of, and a(1)  (1912) I.L.R. 37 Bom. 506.(2)  (1913) 17 C.W.N. 421.(3)  (1918) I.L.R. 41 Mad. 943.(5)  (1931) L.R. 58 I.A. 259.1190further	 stage of the original arbitration  proceedings.  lnour  view,  a  proceeding  which  is  at  the  inception  anarbitration   proceeding  must	retain	its  character	 :asarbitration, even when it is taken up in appeal, where	thatis provided by the statute.The  question whether an appeal under s. 19(1)(f) is of	 thenature of arbitration proceedings, and whether the  decisiongiven therein is an award came up directly for considerationin  Kollegal Silk Filatures Ltd. v. Province of	 Madras	 (1)before	a  Bench  of the Madras	 High  Court  consisting  ofPatanjali  Sastri  and Chandrasekhara Aiyar JJ. and  it	 washeld  by them that the word "arbitration" in s. 19(1)(g)  ofthe  Act  covered  the entire proceedings  from	 their	com-mencement before the arbitrator to their termination in	 theHigh Court on appeal where an appeal had been preferred, andthe  High  Court in hearing and deciding  the  appeal  actedessentially as- an arbitration tribunal.  We agree with thisdecision   that	 the  appeal  under  s.	 19(1)	(f)  is	  anarbitration  proceeding.   We must therefore hold  that	 thedecision  of  the  High	 Court	in  the	 appeal	 under	thatprovision  is not a judgment, decree or order either  withinss. 109 and I 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure or cl. 29 ofthe   Letters  Patent  of  the	Nagpur	High  Court,   whichcorresponds to cl. 39 of the Letters Patent of the Calcutta,Madras	and  Bombay High Courts, and  that,  therefore,	 thepresent appeals are incompetent.Mr. Achbru Ram finally contended that even if no appeal	 layunder ss. 109 and 110 of the Code of Civil Procedure or	 cl.29  of the Letters Patent, it was, nevertheless	 within	 thecompetence of this Court to grant leave to appeal, and	thatthis was a fit case for the grant of such leave.  He  arguedthat  the  Privy  Council had the power to  grant  leave  toappeal against the decision of the Nagpur High Court in	 theappeal	under  s. 19(1) (f), that under s. 3(a)(ii)  of	 theFederal Court (En. largement of Jurisdiction) Act I of	1948that  power  became vested in the Federal Court,  and  underArt.  135  it has devolved on this Court, and  that  in	 theexercise  of  that  power we should grant  leave  to  appealagainst(1)  I.L.R. [1948] Mad. 490.1191the decision now under challenge. it is sufficient answer tothis  contention that the Federal Court had power  under  s.3(a)  (ii) to grant leave only when the proposed appeal	 wasagainst	 a  judgment, and that, under the definition  in  s.2(b), meant a judgment, decree or order of a High Court in acivil case; and that on our conclusion that the decision  inthe  appeal under s. 19(1) (f) is not a judgment, decree  ororder but an award, no order could have been passed grantingspecial leave under s. 3(a) (ii).In  the result, we dismiss both the appeals as	incompetent.The parties will bear their own costs in this Court.Appeals dismissed.