PETITIONER:NARESH CHANDRA GANGULI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL AND OTHERS(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/05/1959BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1335		  1960 SCR  (1) 412ACT: Preventive Detention--Object and ground of such  detention-Distinction--Ground  Meaning of--Copy of order to be  servedon  detenu-Contents-Preventive	Detention Act,	1950  (4  Of1950), ss . 3,7.HEADNOTE:The appellant was detained under s. 3(1)(a)(ii) of the	Pre-ventive Detention Act, 1950.  The copy of the grounds of theorder of detention served on him stated that he was detainedas  he	had  been  acting  in  a  way  prejudicial  to	 themaintenance of public order as evidenced by the	 particularsstated	in its four paragraphs.	 Paragraph 1  stated,  interalia,  that the appellant had, in a meeting of the  refugeesvilified  the Prime Minister of India for his  unsympatheticattitude  towards  the sufferings of the refugees  and	gaveexpression  to violent feelings regarding his  person  whilereferring to the recent Nehru-Noon Pact; paragraph 2  statedthat  he called upon the members of his party to build up  astrong	movement against the implementation of the pact	 andtried to rouse passion by alleging the Prime Minister had nosympathy for West Bengal; paragraph 3 stated that at anothermeeting	 he  denounced	the pact and stressed  the  need  offorming	 a  militia with the youths of the country  for	 thesafety of the people living in border areas and paragraph 4,that he intended -to proceed to Delhi on the date mentioned,and  was likely to instigate plans endangering the  personalsafety	of  the	 Prime	Minister.  The	High  Court,  on  anapplication  under ss. 491 and 561A of the Code of  CriminalProcedure  for the issue of a writ of habeas  corpus,  whileupholding  the	order  of  detention,  held  that  the	saidparagraphs  were  really not the grounds  of  detention	 butmerely	pieces	of  evidence on which  the  only  ground  ofdetention,  namely,  acting in a manner prejudicial  to	 themaintenance of public order, was based, that paragraph 4 wasmerely	an inference of fact having a bearing on the  groundof detention.  It was contended, inter alia, on appeal	thatparagraph  4 was extremely vague and devoid of	particulars,and  that  the allegations made had no	rational  connectionwith the objects mentioned in s. 3 of the Act and so he	 wasdeprived  of his right to make an effective  representation.All this was, however, denied on behalf of the State.Held,  that  the High Court had	 overlooked  the  differencebetween	 the objects of detention specified in cls. (a)	 and(b)  of s. 3(1) of the Act and the statement of facts  whichconstitute the grounds envisaged by S. 7 of the Act.412Sections 3 and 7 of the Preventive Detention Act, 1950, readtogether,  contemplate that the copy of the order passed  bythe  detaining	authority  under S. 3(2) Of the	 Act  to  beserved on the detenu should contain, (1) a preamble recitingin terms one or more of the sub-clauses of cls. (a) and	 (b)of  s.	3(1)  as  its object or	 objects,  (2)	the  groundscontemplated by s. 7, namely, the conclusions of fact, whichled to the passing of the order of detention, informing	 thedetenu	as to why he was detained, and (3)  particulars,  ifand  where necessary, but not those referred to	 in  sub-ss.(3) and (4) Of s. 3 of the Act.In the instant case, however, the error of confusion made bythe  High  Court could not invalidate its  order  since	 thegrounds	 of  detention, characterised by the High  Court  asrecitals  of fact, read together, were in no way  ambiguous,indefinite  or	irrelevant to the object of  the  detention,namely, the maintenance of public order and did not  deprivethe detenu of his right of representation.The State of Bombay v. Atma Ram Sridhay Vaidya [1951] S.C.R.167, considered.Dwarka	Das  Bhatia v. The State of  Jammu  Kashmir.  [1956]S.C.R. 948, held inapplicable.JUDGMENT:   CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.  59of 1959.Appeal	from  the judgment and order dated  the	 January  8,1959, of the Calcutta High Court in Criminal Misc.  Case No.126 of 1958.			    AND		  PETITION No. 51 OF 1959.  Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India forthe enforcement of Fundamental Rights. Veda  Vyasa, S. K. Kapur and Ganpat Rai, for the  appellantand petitioner. B. Sen and P. K. Bose, for the respondents. 1959.	May 20.	 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SINHA	J.-This appeal, on a certificate of fitness  grantedby the Calcutta High Court, is directed against the order ofthat   Court,	dated	January,  8,   1959,   in   CriminalMiscellaneous Case No. 126 of 1958, refusing to issue a writin the nature of habeas corpus in respect of one Ram  PrasadDas   (who   will  hereinafter	be  referred  to   as	'thepetitioner').  This Court, by an order413dated  April 20, 1959, directed that the application of	 thepetitioner under Art. 32 of the Constitution, for a  similarwrit  in respect of the same person, be posted	for  hearingimmediately after the aforesaid criminal appeal, and that itshall  not  be	necessary that the  petitioner	be  producedbefore	this  Court at the time of the hearing of  the	writpetition.  Hence, both the matters, relating as they do,  tothe  same subject-matter, have been heard together and	willbe disposed of by this judgment.It  appears  that  Naresh  Chandra  Ganguli,  an   advocate,practising  in the Calcutta High Court, made an	 applicationunder ss. 491 and 561A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, asa  friend, on behalf on the petitioner, in detention in	 theDum Dum Central Jail in 24 Parganas, under the orders of theGovernment of West Bengal.  The application was made to	 theCalcutta High Court on the following allegations: The  peti-tioner is the Secretary of the West Bengal Committee of	 theBharatiya  Jana	 Sangha,  one  of  the	four  big  politicalparties, as recognized by the Election Commission of  India.On  or	about  October 7, 1958, towards	 evening,  when	 thepetitioner was coming out of the Basanta Cabin, a tea stall,at the crossing of the College Street and Surya Sen  Street,after  having addressed a meeting at the College Square,  hewas stopped on the street by the police and was taken to theoffice	of the Special Branch (Police) on Lord	Sinha  Road.From  there, he was sent to the Dum Dum Central Jail,  wherehe  was	 served	 with an order. being  Order  No.  83  datedOctober	 7,  1958,  purporting	to have	 been  made  by	 theCommissioner  of Police, Calcutta, under the  provisions  ofthe Preventive Detention Act (No.  IV, of 1950) (hereinafterreferred to as 'the Act').  The order is in these terms:-" ORDER Dated 7-10-58. No. 83.Whereas	 I am satisfied with respect to the person known  asSri  Ram  Prasad  ]-)as, son of late  Bepin  Behari  Das  ofVillage	 P-S-P Dist. and of 6, Murlidhar Sen Lane,  Calcuttathat  with a view to preventing him from acting in a  mannerprejudicial414	      to  the  maintenance  of Public  Order  it  is	      necessary so to do.	      Now  therefore  in  exercise  of	the   Powers	      conferred	 by Section 3(2) of  the  Preventive	      Detention	 Act 1950 (IV of 1950) 1  made	this	      order  directing that the said Sri Ram  Prasad	      Das be detained.		    Given under my hand and seal of office.		      Sd/- Illegible,		      Commissioner of Police, Calcutta."On  or about October 8, 1958, the petitioner was served,  inthe Dum Dum Central Jail, with a further order, being  OrderNo. 85 dated October 8, 1958, which is as follows:		" Government of West Bengal.	       Office	of  the	 Commissioner	of   Police,	      Calcutta.	      Dated 8-10-58.	      No. 85.	      Grounds  for  detention under clause  (ii)  of	      clause (a) of Sub-section (1) of Section 3  of	      the Preventive Detention Act, 1950 (Act IV  of	      1950).	      To	      Sri  Rain Prasad Das S/O Bepin Behari Das,  of	      6, Muralidhar Sen Lane, Calcutta.	      You  are	being  detained in  pursuance  of  a	      detention	 order	made in	 exercise  of  power	      conferred by Section 3(2) (c) of the P.D.	 Act	      1950  (Act IV of 1950) on the ground that	 you	      are  acting  in a manner	prejudicial  to	 the	      maintenance  of public order, as evidenced  by	      the particulars given below:-	      1.That  on 13-9-58 you attended a	 meeting  of	      Eastern  Indian  Refugee Council held  at	 the	      Refugee  office at' 6 Murlidhar Sen  Lane	 and	      vilified	Prime  Minister	 of  India  for	 his	      allegedly	 turning  a deaf ear to	 the  untold	      miseries	of the refugees and while  referring	      to  the  recent agreement	 between  the  Prime	      Ministers	 of  India and Pakistan	 you  vented	      feelings	 of  violence  against	 the   Prime	      Minister of India by emphasising that in order	      to  save the refugees and the  territories  of	      the   Indian  Union,  Sri	 Nehru	 should	  be	      murdered,	 if  necessary and so  the  need  of	      another Nathuram Godse was felt now.	      415	      2.    That   in  course  of  discussion	with	      members  of  your	 party	on  17-9-58  at	  6,	      Murlidhar Sen Lane, you stated that the Indian	      Prime  Minister had made a Present of  certain	      Indian  enclaves to Pakistan in  pursuance  of	      the  policy  of  appeasement  which  has	been	      initiated	 by  the  Late	Mahatma	 Gandhi	 and	      called  upon  the members to build  uP  strong	      movement against the implementation of Nehru-	      Noon Pact.  You also tried to. rouse  passions	      by alleging that the Indian Prime Minister had	      no sympathy for West Bengal.	      3.    That  on  26-9-58 you  attended  another	      meeting  of the South Durtolla Branch  of	 the	      Jana  Sangha at Jatin Mitter Park,  where	 you	      denounced the aforesaid agreement between	 the	      two  Prime Ministers and stressed the need  of	      forming  a  militia  with the  youths  of	 the	      country for the safety of the people living in	      border areas and urged all to enrol themselves	      for the said purpose.	      4.    That  you intend to proceed to Delhi  on	      9-10-58  and that you are likely to  instigate	      plans which may adversely affect the  personal	      security of the Prime Minister of India.	      Your  action above is bound to result  in	 the	      maintenance    of	   public    order     being	      prejudicially affected.	      You  are hereby informed that you may  make  a	      representation to the State Government against	      the    detention	 order	 and	that	such	      representation  should  be  addressed  to	 the	      Assistant	 Secy.	Home  (Special)	 Department,	      Government  of  West  Bengal,  and   forwarded	      through the Supt. of the Jail in which you are	      detained as early as possible.	      You are also informed that u/s 10 of the	P.D.	      Act  1950	 (IV  of 1950)	the  Advisory  Board	      shall,  if you desire to be heard hear you  in	      person  and that if you desire to be so  heard	      by the Advisory Board you should intimate such	      desire  in- your representation to  the  State	      Government.			Sd/- Illegible,		       Commissioner of Police, Calcutta,"	      416	      On  or about October 11, 1958, the  petitioner	      was  served  with another order  which  is  in	      these terms:		  " Government of West Bengal.		    Home Department, Special Section.		    Order		    Calcutta, 11-10-58.	      No. 1882 H. S.	      In exercise of the power conferred by  Section	      3(2)  of the Preventive Detention	 -Act,	1950	      (IV  of  1950),  the Governor  is	 pleased  to	      approve  order No. 83 dated the  7-10-58	made	      under  Section  3(2) of the said	Act  by	 the	      Commissioner  of	Police,	 Calcutta  directing	      that  Sri	 Ram Prasad Das son  of	 Late  Bepin	      Behari Das of 6, Murlidhar Sen Lane,  Calcutta	      be detained.			  By order of the Governor.			  Sd/- Illegible,		    Dy. Secty. to the Govt. of West Bengal."The petitioner made a representation in writing against	 theorder  of  detention  aforesaid, denying  and  refuting	 thegrounds	 of his detention, set out above.   He	particularlydenied	the allegation contained in ground No. 1  aforesaid,as  totally false, and stated that there was no meeting,  asalleged, on September 13, 1958, and that he had not made anyspeech attributed to him in the said ground.  He also deniedthat he had advocated in any meeting for the formation of  amilitia, as alleged.  But he claimed that he had a right  toexpress his views about the policy of the Government or	 thePrime  Minister, relating to Pakistan and/ or  about  Nehru-Noon  Pact or similar other Agreements.	 He denied  that  heindulged in any violent speeches, or that he tried to  rousepassions.  His further contention was that the ground No.  4was extremely vague in the absence of any particulars  abouthow,  where  and when and in what manner, he was  likely  toinstigate  any	plan  which  was  to  adversely	 affect	 thepersonal  security of the Prime Minister of India,  and	 thenature or particulars of any such contemplated plan.In  his application to the High Court, the  petitioner	alsosubmitted that the grounds supplied to him, had417no   rational connection with the objects mentioned in s.   3of the Act, and that, therefore, he was deprived of    hisright to make an effective representation.  He also  allegedthat  he  was a member of a political party opposed  to	 theparty  in power, and held definitely pronounced views  aboutthe  failure  of  the Government to tackle  the	 problem  ofrefugees,  as  also  about  the	 relationship  between	 theGovernment and the State of Pakistan.  He also claimed to bea leader of the refugees, and as such, had been relentlesslycriticising  the  policies of the  present  Government.	  Hefurther asserted that the order of detention passed  againsthim,  was  a  clear case  of  political	 victimisation.	  Healleged further that the order of detention, on the face  ofit,  was  malafide,  and was a	clear  infringement  of	 hisfundamental  right  to freedom of  speech  and	association,guaranteed by the Constitution.  On  November 28, 1958, the petitioner was brought  to	 theWriters'  Buildings  in	 Calcutta,  and	 placed	 before	 theAdvisory Board as constituted under the Act.  The petitionerwas heard in person by the Advisory Board on that date,	 andon  the	 next  day, that is, November 29,  1958,  after	 thehearing	 by the Advisory Board, another order,	being  orderNo.  1967  H.  S.,  dated November 29,	1958,  made  by	 theGovernor   of  West  Bengal,  was  issued,  confirming	 theaforesaid  order of detention No. 83 dated October 7,  1958,set  out  above, and continuing the  petitioner's  detentiontill the expiration of 12 months from the date of detention.On  those allegations, the petitioner submitted to the	HighCourt  that the orders aforesaid, relating to his  detentionin the Dum Dum Central Jail, were"' illegal, invalid,  ultravires, void and inoperative." An affidavit in opposition, on behalf of the State of	WestBengal	and  other  opposite parties, was sworn	 to  by	 theCommissioner of Police, Calcutta-opposite party No. 3 in thecase- In the aforesaid affidavit, the deponent averrred thathe was satisfied on the records and materials placed  beforehim  that  the petitioner was a person likely to  act  in  amanner	prejudicial to the maintenance of public order,	 andthat with a view to preventing him from doing so, it418was necessary to make the order of detention on the  groundsmentioned in the Order No. 85 dated October 8, 1958 (set outabove).	  He  also  averred that  the  orders  of  detentionaforesaid, together with the grounds and all other  relevantparticulars, were reported by him to the Government of	WestBengal,	 which,	 after	duly  considering  the	same,	dulyapproved of the orders of detention.  It was also stated  inthe affidavit that the petitioner personally appeared beforethe  Advisory Board on November 28, 1958, and  the  AdvisoryBoard,	upon  a consideration of the records  and  materialsplaced	before	it,  and  the  representation  made  by	 thepetitioner,  and  after hearing the  petitioner	 in  person,reported  to  the  Government' of West Bengal  that  in	 theopinion	 of the Advisory Board, there was  sufficient  causefor  the -detention of the petitioner.	The Commissioner  ofPolice	further	 stated in the affidavit that  he  had	dulypassed and signed the orders of detention after	 consideringthe  records and materials in respect of the petitioner,  inexercise  of the powers conferred under the Act,  bona	fideand without any malice whatsoever, on being satisfied  aboutthe  necessity	of the said orders of  detention.   He	alsostated	that  he  denied  all statements  of  facts  to	 thecontrary,  contained  in  the affidavit in  support  of	 thepetition,  and he undertook to produce the original  recordsin  the Court at the hearing.  Allegations of  victimisationon  political grounds, and that the order of  detention	 wasmala  fide and in infringement of the fundamental rights  ofthe petitioner, were specifically denied.The  matter  was heard by a Division Bench of  the  CalcuttaHigh  Court  (Guha Roy and H. K. Sen, JJ.),  which,  by	 itsorder  dated January 8, 1958, discharged the Rule.   In	 thecourse	of its judgment, the High Court made  the  followingobservations:-	       On  a  reading of the order  however,  it  is	      quite clear to us that paragraphs 1, 2, 3	 and	      4	 do  not  state the grounds  of	 the  order.	      There is only one ground of the order and that	      is that the petitioner was acting in a  manner	      prejudicial to the maintenance of public order	      and the remaining paragraphs of the order make	      it quite clear that what are stated	      419	      in  paragraphs  1,  2,  3	 and  4	  constitute	      different	 pieces	 of evidence  by  which	 the	      authority	  making  the  order  came  to	 the	      conclusion that the petitioner was acting in a	      manner  prejudicial  to  the  maintenance	  of	      public order and therefore should be  detained	      under the Act."Hence, the High Court, on a construction of s. 3 of the Act,came  to  the conclusion that the grounds  of  detention  inrespect	 of  the petitioner, were not vague,  and  that	 thestatement  in  para. 4 of the detention order No.  85  datedOctober	 8, 1958, quoted above, was not a ground but only  apiece of evidence out of several such pieces of evidence  onwhich  the  ground of detention was based.  It	was  furtherpointed	 out  that para. 4 aforesaid, was not  by  itself  aground	of the order, but merely an inference of fact  whichhad some bearing on the ground of the order.  The High Courtalso  pointed  out  that  there	 was  no  ambiguity  in	 therecitals,  including  these in para. 4 aforesaid.   In	thatview of the matter, the order of detention of the petitionerwas  upheld,  and the Court further held that  the  questionwhether	 the whole' order was bad on the ground that one  ofthe grounds was too vague, did not arise in the case.  The  petitioner  moved  the  Calcutta	 High  Court  for  acertificate  that the case was a fit one for appeal to	thisCourt.	The Chief Justice of the High Court, delivering	 theorder  of  the Division Bench of that  Court,  granting	 thenecessary  certificate, observed that the view of  the	HighCourt that para. 4 aforesaid, was not a ground of  detentionbut  only  one of the items of evidence in  support  of	 theground,	 raised a serious question to be determined by	thisCourt, particularly because a view contrary to the one takenby the High Court in the instant case, appeared to have beentaken by this Court and by the Calcutta High Court itself ina number of decisions.	That is how this appeal has come  tothis  Court.  Besides preferring the aforesaid	appeal,	 thepetitioner   moved   this  Court  under	 Art.  32   of	 theConstitution,  praying	for a writ in the nature  of  habeascorpus,	 and a Constitution Bench, by its order dated  April20, 1959, directed that this appeal be posted for420hearing	 by  a	Constitution Bench, on May 11,	1959,  on  acyclostyled paper book, and that the filing of the  petitionof  appeal  and the statements of cases be  dispensed  with.The Court further ordered that the application under Art. 32of the Constitution, be posted for hearing immediately afterthe criminal appeal.  That is how both the matters have beenplaced one after the other for hearing before us. The  order  under appeal takes the view  that	the  variousgrounds	 of  detention, are stated in s. 3 (1)(a)  (i)	(ii)(iii)  and (b) of the Act, and that there can be no  groundsapart from those.  The High Court then, on a reading of	 theOrder No. 85, set out above, has held that paragraphs 1,  2,3 and 4 are not the grounds of detention, as contemplated bys.  3  of the Act, but that they only  constitute  differentpieces	of evidence by which the authority making the  ordercame  to the conclusion that the petitioner was acting in  amanner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order, whichwas  the  only	ground on which the order  of  detention  inquestion  was  founded.	  The High Court was  right  in	 itsliteral	 construction  of the order impugned in	 this  case,which  proceeds	 to  recite the	 four  numbered	 paragraphs,preceded  by the introductory clause " as evidenced  by	 theparticulars  given  below."  But the case of  The  State  ofBombay v. Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya (1), has laid it down thatcl (5) of Art. 22 of the Constitution, confers two  distinctthough	interrelated rights on the petitioner,	namely,	 (1)the  right to be informed of the grounds on which the  orderof detention has been made, and (2) the right to be enabled,at  the	 earliest  opportunity,	 to  make  a  representationagainst	 the order.  This Court further pointed out in	thatcase, that the grounds which have a rational connection withthe objects mentioned in s. 3, have to be supplied.  As soonas that is done, the first condition of a valid detention iscomplied with.	The second condition of such a detention  isfulfilled only after the detenu has been supplied with	suchinformation as will enable him to make a representation.  Ifthe information supplied in order to enable a detenu(1)  (1951) S.C.R. 167.421to  make  a  representation,  does  not	 contain  sufficientparticulars,  the  detenu  is entitled to  ask	for  furtherparticulars which will enable him to make a  representation.Therefore, if there is an infringement of either of the	 tworights,	 and  any one of the two conditions precedent  to  avalid  detention, as aforesaid, has not been fulfilled,	 thedetenu has a right to approach this Court for a writ in	 thenature	of habeas corpus.  In other words, the	grounds	 formaking an order of detention, which have to be	communicatedto  the	 detenu as soon as practicable, are  conclusions  offacts,	and are not a complete recital of all  the  relevantfacts.	 Therefore,  the  grounds, that	 is  to	 say,  thoseconclusions of facts, must be in existence when the order ofdetention is made, and those conclusions of facts have to becommunicated to the detenu as soon as may be.This Court, and naturally, the High Courts, have treated therecitals  in  the  orders  of  detention,  with	  particularreference to the several clauses and sub-clauses of s. 3 (1)(a) and (b) of the Act, as stating the object to be achievedin  making the order of detention.  The order  of  detentionmay  also contain recitals of facts upon which it is  based.If  the	 order of detention also contains  the	recitals  offacts upon which it is founded, no further question  arises,but if it does not contain the recitals of facts which	formthe  basis of the conclusions of fact, justifying the  orderof  detention,	then, as soon as may be (now,  under  s.  7,within	a  maximum  period of five days	 from  the  date  ofdetention), the person detained has to be informed of  thosefacts which are the basic facts or the reasons on which	 theorder  of  detention has been made.  Section 3	of  the	 Actrequires  the  authority making an order  of  detention,  tostate  the fact of its satisfaction that it is necessary  tomake  the order of detention of a particular person, with  aview  to preventing him from acting in a manner	 prejudicialto one or more of the objects contained in clauses and	sub-clauses	 of  s.	 3 (1) (a) and (b) of the  Act.	  Section  7requires that the person detained should be communicated thegrounds	 on which the order of detention has been  made,  soa,-, to afford him the earliest opportunity to make a422representation	 against  the  order,  to  the	 appropriateGovernment.   The statement of facts contemplated by  s.  7,would,	thus,  constitute the grounds, and not	the  matterscontained  in  one or more of the  clauses  and	 sub-clausesunder  s.  3  (1) (a) and (b) of the Act.   Section  3	alsorequires that when an order of detention has been made,	 theState  Government concerned has to be apprised of the  orderof  detention as also of the grounds on which the  order  ofdetention   has	  been	made,  together	 with	such   otherparticulars as have a bearing on the order and the  grounds.And finally,, after the order has been approved by the StateGovernment,  that Government, in its turn, has to report  tothe  Central Government the fact of the detention,  togetherwith  the grounds on which the order of detention  had	beenmade;  and such other particulars as, in the opinion of	 theState  Government, have a bearing on the necessity  for	 theorder.	Thus, on a consideration of the provisions of ss.  3and 7 of the Act, it may be observed that the detenu has  tobe  served with a copy of the order passed by the  authoritycontemplated  by  sub-s. (2) of s. 3,  containing,  firstly,recitals  in terms of one or more of the subclauses  of	 cl.(a)  and (b) of s. 3(1), which we may call  the	 'Preamble',and secondly, the grounds contemplated by s. 7, namely,	 theconclusions  of	 fact which have led to the passing  of	 theorder  of detention, informing the detenu as to why  he	 wasbeing  detained.  lf  the grounds do  not  contain  all	 theparticulars  necessary for enabling the detenu to  make	 hisrepresentation	against the order of his detention,  he	 mayask for further particulars of the facts, and the  authoritywhich  passed the order of detention is expected to  furnishall that information, subject, of course, to the  provisionsof sub-s. (2) of s. 7 ; that is to say, the person  detainedshall not be entitled to the disclosure of such facts as theauthority   making  the	 order,	 considers  against   publicinterest  to disclose.	Thus, the order of detention  to  beserved upon the person detained would usually consist of thefirst  two parts, namely, the preamble and the grounds,	 butit may also consist of the third part, namely, the423particulars,  if and when they are required or found  to  benecessary.   But  it has to be noted that  the	particular,,referred  to  in sub-ss. (3) and (4) of s. 3, would  not  beidentical  with	 the particulars which we  have	 called	 thethird part of the order.  The State Government, as also	 theCentral	  Government,	would,	naturally,  be	 placed	  inpossession  of	all the relevant facts	and  particulars  onwhich  the  order of detention has been passed.	  But  thoseparticulars may contain such details of facts as may not  becommunicated, in public interest, to the person detained.From  what  has been said above, it is clear that  the	HighCourt  was  in error in so far as it treated  what  we	havecalled	 the   preamble'  as  the   grounds   of   detentioncontemplated  by s. 7 of the Act.  But this error,  as	willpresently  appear, has not affected the legality,  proprietyor correctness of the order passed by the High Court in	 thehabeas	corpus	proceedings before it.	The High  Court,  asalready indicated, after making those observations which  wehave  held  to be erroneous, proceeded further to  say	thatthere was no ambiguity in the recitals of facts, as the HighCourt  characterised  them  and which  we  have	 called	 thegrounds.The  contention	 raised	 before	 the  High  Court  has	beenrepeated  before us, that the grounds contained in para.  4,are  vague and indefinite, not enabling the person  detainedto  make  his  representation.	 It  will  appear  from	 theparagraph aforesaid that the petitioner intended to  proceedto Delhi on October 9,1958, with a view to instigating plansagainst the personal security of the Prime Minister.  It  isclear  that  the  place, date and  purpose  of	the  plannednefarious activity, have all been stated as clearly as couldbe  expected.  But it was argued that it was also  necessaryto  state  the details of the plan to be hatched  in  Delhi.There  are several answers to this contention.	Paragraph  4has reference to something which was apprehended but lay  inthe womb of the future.	 From the nature of the fact that itwas  not  an event which had already happened but  what	 wasapprehended to be in the contemplation of the detenu and hisassociates,  if	 any, no further details of the	 plan  couldpossibly be424disclosed.  As was observed in the decision of this Court inThe  State of Bombay v. Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya (1) (at	 pp.184  and 185), vagueness is a -relative term.	Its  meaningmust  vary  with the facts and circumstances of	 each  case.What  may be said to be vague in one case, may not be so  inanother, and it could not be asserted as a general rule thata  ground  is necessarily vague if the only  answer  of	 thedetained  person  can be to deny it.  If  the  statement  offacts  is  capable  of	being  clearly	understood  and	  issufficiently definite to enable the detained person to	makehis  representation,  it cannot be said that  it  is  vague.Further,  it cannot be denied that particulars of  what	 hastaken  place,  can be more definitely stated than  those  ofevents	which are yet in the offing.  In the very nature  ofthings,	 the  main object of the Act is to  prevent  personsfrom  doing something which comes within the purview of	 anyone of the sub-clauses of cl. (a) of s. 3(1) of the Act. It was next contended that some of the grounds at least areirrelevant.  This was not said of the first paragraph of thegrounds, set out above.	 It was said of paragraphs 2, 3	 and4  that they are irrelevant to the main object of the  orderof detention, namely, the "maintenance of public order".  Inour  opinion,  there  is no  substance	in  this  contentioneither.	  All the statements in the four paragraphs  of	 thegrounds, which have to be read together as being parts of  aconnected  whole, calling upon persons to " build up  strongmovement against the implementation of Nehru-Noon Pact", andto  "rouse  passions  by  alleging  that  the  Indian  PrimeMinister had no sympathy for West Bengal", cannot be said tobe wholly unconnected with the maintenance of public  order.Similarly,  denouncing the agreement between the  two  PrimeMinisters  and stressing the need of forming a militia	withthe  youths  of	 the  country, cannot be  said	to  have  norepercussions  on  the	maintenance of	public	order.	 Andlastly,	 any instigation against the personal safety of	 thePrime Minister of India cannot but have a deleterious effecton the maintenance of public order,(1)  (1951) S.C.R. 167.425It  was sought to be argued that any weak link in the  chainof  facts and circumstances, said to have been the basis  ofthe  order  of detention, would affect the legality  of	 thewhole  order.  This argument postulates that there are	manygrounds	 which	are  either vague or  irrelevant.   In	thisconnection,   particular   reliance  was   placed   on	 theobservations  of  this Court in Dwarka Dass  Bhatia  v.	 TheState  of Jammu and Kashmir (1), to the effect that if	someof  the	 reasons on which the order of	detention  had	beenbased, are found to be non-existent or irrelevant, the Courtought to quash the order, because it is not in a position toknow  which of the reasons or the grounds, had	operated  onthe mind of the authorities concerned, when they decided thepass  the impugned order.  As already pointed out,  no	suchsituation arises in this case, because, in our opinion, noneof  the grounds is either vague or irrelevant.	It may	alsobe pointed out that the ground of irrelevance wag not  urgedbefore	the  High  Court,  but	even  so,  we  allowed	 thepetitioner's  counsel  to urge that ground  before  us,	 andhaving	heard him on that aspect of the matter, we  have  nodoubt that there is no justification for the contention thatany   of  the  matters	taken  into  consideration  by	 theauthorities concerned in the matter of the detention of	 thepetitioner, was irrelevant. For the reasons given above, it must be held that there  isno merit in this appeal or in the application under Art.  32of the Constitution.  They are, accordingly, dismissed.Appeal and application dismissed.(1)  (1956) S.C.R. 948.54426