PETITIONER:KESHAV NILKANTH JOGLEKAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF POLICE, GREATERBOMBAY(and connected petiDATE OF JUDGMENT:17/09/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR   28		  1956 SCR  653ACT:Preventive detention-Detention order by the  Commissioner-ofPolice-Duty  to	 report forthwith to the  State	 Government-"Forthwith",  Meaning  of-Time	taken  for  sending  report-Validity of detention-Preventive Detention Act, 1950 (IV  of1950), ss. 3(3), 7.HEADNOTE:Section 3(3) of the Preventive Detention Act, 1950, providesthat  when  an	order of detention is  made  by	 an  officermentioned  in s. 3(2) he shall forthwith report the fact  tothe State Government together with the grounds on which	 theorder  has  been  made..... and no  such  order......  shallremain	in force for more than twelve days after the  makingthereof	 unless in the meantime it has been approved by	 theState Government.On  13th  January 1956 the Commissioner of  Police,  Bombay,passed orders under s. 3(2) of the Preventive Detention Act,1950  directing	 the  detention of the	petitioners  and  inpursuance  thereof' they were arrested on 16th January	1956The grounds on which the orders were made were furnished  tothe--petitioners  on 20th January 1956 and the next day	 theCommissioner reported the fact of the order and the  groundstherefor to the State Government which approved of the	sameon  23rd  January  1956.   The	petitioners  contested	 thevalidity  of  the  detention on the  ground  that  when	 theCommissioner passed the orders for detention on 13th January1956  it  was  his duty under s. 3(3) to  report  that	factforthwith  to the State Government, and as he did not do  sountil 21st January'1956 he had acted in contravention of thestatute	 and that the detention was therefore  illegal.	  Itwas  found  that the delay in sending the report  could	 nothave been avoided by the Commissioner and that it was due tocauses	to  which  the petitioners  had	 very  largely	con-tributed.Held, that the word "forthwith" in s. 3(3) of the PreventiveDetention Act, 1950, has not a fixed and an absolute meaningand it must be construed with reference to the object of thesection	 and the circumstances of the case.  It cannot	meanthe same thing as "as soon as may be" in s. 7 of the Act andthe  former  is	 more  peremptory  than	 the  latter.	 Thedifference  between the two . expressions lies in this	thatwhile  under a. 7 the time that is allowed to the  authorityto  send  the  communication  to  the  detenu  is  what	  isreasonably convenient, under s. 3(3) what is allowed is onlythe654period	during which he could not, without any fault of	 hisown, send the report.An  act which is to be done forthwith must be held  to	havebeen  so done when it is done with all	reasonable  despatchand without avoidable delay.The  Queen v. The Justices of Berkshire ([1878-79] 4  Q.B.D.469), Hudson and others v. Hill and others ([1874] 43 L.  J.C.P. 273), and Beg. v. Price, (8 Moore P.C. 203), relied on.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL  JURISDICTION:	 Petitions Nos. 102,105	 to  110  of1956.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution for writs  inthe nature of Habeas Corpus.N.   C.	 Chatterjee,  Sadhan  Chandra  Gupta  and  janardhanSharma; for petitioners in Petitions Nos. 102, 105 to 108 of1956.Sadhan	Chandra Gupta and Janardhan Sharma, for	 petitionersin Petitions Nos. 109 and 110 of 1956.C.K.Daphtary,  SoliCitor-General for India, Porus  A.  Mehtaand  R. H Dhebar, for respondents in Petitions Nos. 102	 and105 of 1956.Porus  A.  Mehta  and  R.  H.  Dhebar,	for  respondents  inPetitions Nos. 106 to 110 of 1956.1956.	September  17.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byVENKATARAMA AYYAR J.-These are petitions filed under article32 of the Constitution for the issue of writs in the  natureof  habeas corpus.  They arise on the same facts  and  raisethe same questions.On  13-1-1956  the Commissioner of  Police,  Bombay,  passedorders under section 3(2) of the Preventive Detention Act IVof 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), directing	 thedetention of the present petitioners, and pursuant  thereto,they  were actually arrested on 16-1-1956.  The	 grounds  onwhich the orders were made were formulated on 19-1-1956, andcommunicated to the petitioners the next day.  On  21-1-1956the  Commissioner  reported the fact of the  order  and	 thegrounds therefor to the State Govern-655ment, which approved of the same on 231-1956.The contention of the petitioners before us is that when theCommissioner  passed the orders for detention on  13-1-1956,it  was	 his  duty under section 3(3) to  report  that	factforthwith  to the State Government -and as be did not do  sountil  21-1-1956,  he  had acted  in  contravention  of	 thestatute, and that the detention was therefore illegal.	Thatraises the question as to what "forthwith" in section 3	 (3)of  the Act signifies, and whether on the facts	 the  reportwas  made  "forthwith", within the meaning of that  word  inthat sub-section.The  word "forthwith", it has been observed, is	 of  elasticimport.	  In  its literal sense, it might  be  construed  asmeaning that the act to be performed forth;with in  relationto  another  should  follow  it	 automatically	without	 anyinterval  of  time, or, -as held in some  of  the  American.authorities, should be performed at one and the same time asthe  other.   But  even in  America,  the  preponderance  ofjudicial  opinion  does not favour  this  construction.	  InCorpus	Juris,	Volume	26, page 998 the  position  is	thusstated:"Although  the	term  has received  a  strict  conStruction,ordinarily  it is not to be strictly construed,	 but  shouldreceive a liberal or reasonable construction-.	Some  regardmust  be  had  to  the nature of the  act  or  thing  to  beperformed and the circumstances of the case".In England, there is a long catena of decisions interpretingthe  word  "forthwith"	occurring  in  statutes,  rules	 andcontracts,   and  their	 trend	has  been  to  construe	  itliberally.  As early as 1767, discussing the meaning of	 theword  'immediately'--and the word "forthwith" his been	heldto have the same significance-Lord Hardwicke observed in Rexv. Francis"But then the word immediately, is strongly insisted on, as,a  word	 which	excludes  all  mesne  acts  and	 time;	 andtherefore,-that this taking away the money must	 necessarilybe 'in the presence of Cox.(1)  Cun. 165; 94 E.R. 1129, 1183.656But all the nine Judges held this word immediately, to be ofso loose a signification, and not to imply necessarily, thatthe  money was taken away in Cox's presence.  For this	worddoes  neither  in  its	use  and  application,	nor  in	 itsgrammatical construction, exclude all mesne acts or time Butit  is more necessary and proper in this case,	to  considerthe signification of this word in the legal, way.  And it isplain,	that  in this acceptation, it is not  understood  toexclude	 mesne acts or time And on the Statute Hue and	Cry,27  Eliz.  c.  13,  s. 11, where' the  words  with  as	muchconvenient  speed  as  may  be, are made  use  of,  all	 theprecedents   have  expressed  these  words,  by	  the	wordimmediate, as may be seen in the books.	 The last case whichI  shall  mention  on this point, is that  of  the  writs-ofhabeas	corpus,	 issuing out of this Court, which  are	mostfrequently made returnable immediately; and in this case theword  is  never understood either to exclude mesne  acts  ortime, but only means, with convenient speedIn Beg. v. The Justices of Worcester(1), where the  questionwas as to the meaning of the word "forthwith" in section  50of 6 Will.  IV, Coleridge, J. observed:"I  agree  that this word 'forthwith' is not  to  receive  astrict	construction like the word 'immediately',,  so	thatwhatever follows, must be done immediately after that  whichhas been done before.  By referring to section 50, it  seemsthat  whatever	is  to be done under it, ought	to  be	donewithout	 any  unreasonable  delay.  I think  that  the	word'forthwith'  there used, must be considered as	having	thatmeaning'The   meaning  of  the	word  "immediately"  came   up	 forconsideration in Thompson v. Gibson(2).	 Holding that it wasnot to be construed literally, Lord Abinger C.	  B.observed:"If   they"  (acts  of	Parliament)  "could   be   construedliterally,  consistently  with	common	sense  and  justice,undoubtedly they ought; and if I could see,(1)  [1889] 7 Dowl.  Pr.  Cas. 789-791: 54 R.R. 902 (903).(2)  (1841] 8 M. & NV. 282 151 E.R. 1045,1047.657upon  this act of, Parliament, that it was the intention  ofthe  legislature that not a single moment's interval  shouldtake place before the granting of the certificate, I  shouldthink myself bound to defer to that declared intention.	 Butit  is admitted that this cannot be its	 interpretation;  weare therefore to see how, consistently with common sense andthe   principles   of  justice,	  the	words	'immediatelyafterwards'  are to be construed.  If they do not mean	thatit  is to be done the very instant afterwards,do  they	meanwithin ten minutes, or a quarter of an hour, afterwards?   Ithink we should interpret them to mean, within such  reason-able  time as will exclude the danger of  intervening  factsoperating  upon the mind of the Judge, so as to disturb	 theimpression made upon it by the evidence in the cause".In  agreeing  with  this  opinion,  Alderson,  B.  expresslyapproved  of  the  decision  of Lord  Hardwicke	 in  Rex  v.Francis(1).  This construction of the word 'immediately' wasadopted in Page v. Pearce(), Lord Abinger C. B. observing:"It  has already been decided, and necessarily so, that	 thewords  'immediately  afterwards'in the	statute,  cannot  beconstrued   literally;	and  if	 you  abandon  the   literalconstruction  of  the  words, what can	you  substitute	 but'within a reasonable time?'...."In  The	 Queen v. The Justice-3 of Berkshire(3),  where	 thepoint was as to the meaning of "forthwith" in section 52  of35 & 36 Vict., Chapter 94, Cockburn C. J. observed:"The   question	 is  substantially  one	 of  fact.   It	  isimpossible to lay down any bard and fast rule as to what  isthe  meaning of the word 'immediately', in all	cases.	 Thewords  'forthwith' and 'immediately' have the same  meaning.They  are stronger than the expression within  a  reasonabletime', and imply prompt, vigorous action, without any delay,and  whether  there has been such action is  a	question  offact,  having regard to the circumstances of the  particularcase".(1)  dun. 165: 94 E.R. 1129, 1188.(2)  [1841] 8 M. & W. 677 (678): 161 E.R. 1211 (1212).(3)  [1878-79] 4 Q.B.D. 469 (471).658The  same construction. has been put on the word  "forthwith" occurring in contracts.  In Hudson and others v. Hill	 andothers(1) which was a case of charterparty, it was  observedat page 280:"Forthwith'   means   without   unreasonable   delay.	Thedifference  between undertaking to do something	 'forthwith'and  kithin  a	specified  time	 is  familiar  to   everyoneconversant with law.  To do a thing 'forthwith' is to do  itas soon as is reasonably convenient".In  Reg. v. Price(2), it was held by the Privy Council	thatthe  word  "forthwith"	in  a  bail  bond  meant  within   areasonable  time  from	the service  of	 notice.   On  theseauthorities,  it  may be taken, an act which is to  be	doneforthwith must be held to have been so done, when it is donewith all reasonable despatch and without avoidable delay.But it is argued by Mr. N. C. Chatterjee that the view takenin  the	 above	decisions  as to the  meaning  of  the	word"forthwith"  has been abandoned in the later decisions,	 andthat  under  the  law as it stands, when an act	 has  to  beperformed  forthwith in relation to another, what has to  bedecided is not whether it was done within a reasonable time,but whether it was done so closely upon the other as to formtogether  one continuous act.  He relied in support of	thisopinion on the decision in Be Muscovitch(3), affirming	thatin Re Muscovitch(1).  That was a decision on rule 132 of theBankruptcy  Rules  which  provided that	 "Upon	entering  anappeal,	 a copy of the notice of appeal shall  forthwith  besent by the appellant to the registrar of the court appealedfrom".	The facts were that the appeal was lodged in time on25-10-1938  but the notice was served on 28-10-1938, and  itwas  found  that  there was "no satisfactory  reason  or  noreason	at all, why there was any delay in the	matter"	 (ReMuscovitch(4)).	  On that, it was held that the	 requisitionthat "the notice shall forthwith be sent" was not satisfied.This is authority only for the position that when an Act  isdone  after an interval of time and there is no	 explanationforthcoming for(1)  [1874] 43 L.J. C.P. 273 (280).(2)  8 Moore P.C. 208: 14 E.R. 78.(3)  [1939] 1 A.E.R. 135.(4)  [1988] 4 A.E.R. 570,659the delay, it cannot be held to have been done	"forthwith".That  is  made	clear by Sir Wilfrid Greene  M.	 R.  in	 thefollowing passage in Re Muscovitch(1) at page 139:"Having	 regard to the construction which was put  upon	 theword  'forthwith'  which is peremptory, and.  admits  of  nointerval  of  time between the entry of the appeal  and	 thesending	 of  the  notice  save such as	may  be	 imposed  bycircumstances, which cannot be avoided, I find it impossiblein  the	 present  case	to say	that  the  notice  was	sentforthwith within the meaning of the rule".Reliance is also placed for the petitioners on the  decisionin Ex parte Lamb: In re Southam(2), which was followed in ReMuscovitch(1).	 There, construing the word  "forthwith"  inrule 144 of the Bankruptcy Rules, 1870, which corresponds torule  132,  which was the subject of  interpretation  in  ReMuscovitch(1), Jessel M. R. observed at page 173:"Ithink	  that	the  word  'forthwith'	must  be   construedaccording to the circumstances in which it is used     Where,as  in	Hyde v. Watt8(3), there is- a covenant to  insure  aman's  life, there must of necessity be some delay, for	 theact  could not be done in a moment.  But where an act  whichis  required  to  be done 'forthwith' can  be  done  withoutdelay, it ought to be so done".In  that case also, the learned Judges found that the  delaywas not explained.  And the observation of Lush L. J. in thesame  case was that "the word 'forthwith' has not  -a  fixedand an absolute meaning; it must be construed with referenceto  the	 objects of the rule and the  circumstances  of	 thecase".	  There	  is  nothing  in  the	 decisions   in	  ReMuscovitch(1) and Ex parte Lamb: In re Southam(2) which	 canbe  considered as marking a departure from the	constructionput on the word "forthwith" in the earlier authorities	thatit  meant  only	 that  the  act	 should	 be  performed	withreasonable  speed and expedition, and that any delay in	 thematter should be satisfactorily explained.(1) [1939] 1 A.E.R. 185	    (2) [1881-82] 19 Ch.  D. 169.(3)  12 M & W. 254.660It  is	argued	for the petitioners that even  if  the	con.struction put on the word "forthwith" in the above decisionsis accepted as correct, it must, in any event, yield to	 anycontrary  intention expressed in the statute, and  that	 theprovisions  of the Act afforded clear indication of such  anintention.   It	 is co intended that the  legislature  whileproviding   in	section	 7  that  the  grounds	 should	  becommunicated  to the detenu "as soon as may be" has  enactedthat  the report under section 3(3) should be  sent  "forth-with", that the use of two different expressions in the	 twosections  is  a clear indication that they do not  mean	 thesame  thing,  that as the words "as soon as may	 be"  importthat  the act might be performed in a reasonable  time,	 theword "forthwith" which is more peremptory must be  construedas excluding it.  The decisions in Emperor v. Phuchai(1) andin  K. U. Kulkarni v. Ganpat Teli(2) were quoted in  supportof the position that when two different expressions are usedin  different  parts  of the same clause  or  section,	theyshould be construed as used in different senses.We  agree that "forthwith" in section 3(3) cannot  mean	 thesame thing as "as soon as may be" in section 7, and that theformer	is more peremptory than the latter.  The  differencebetween	 the two expressions lies, in our opinion,  in	thisthat  while under section 7 the time that is allowed to	 theauthority to send the communication to the detenu is what isreasonably convenient, under section 3(3) what is allowed isonly the period during which he could not, without any faultof  his own, send the report.  Under section 7 the  questionis  whether the time taken for communicating the grounds  isreasonably requisite.  Under section 3(3) it is whether	 thereport has been sent at the earliest point of time possible,and  when there is an inter-val of time between the date  ofthe  order and the date of the report, what has to  be	con-sidered	 is  whether the delay in sending the  report  couldhave been avoided.(1)  I.L.R. 50 All. 909: A.I.R. 1929 All. 38.(2)  I.L.R. [1942] Bom. 287: A.I.R. 1942 Bom. 191.661It  was	 contended  that  as section  7	 required  that	 thecommunication should be made not later than 5 days from	 thedate  of the order, and as section 3(3) was more  peremptorythan section 7 in that it required that the report should bemade  forthwith,  the period allowable	under  section	3(3)could  not  exceed 5 days, and that as in  these  cases	 thereports	 were sent 8 days later, they could not be  held  tohave  been  sent  forthwith.  This  argument  mixes  up	 twodifferent  matters contained in section 7. The period  of  5days provided therein-is an absolute one and is	 independentof the period which is permissible under the expression	 "assoon  as  may  be",  which must,  by  its  very	 nature,  beindefinite  depending on the facts and circumstances of	 thecase.	It  will  be as erroneous to read 5  days  into	 theperiod allowable under the expression "as soon as may be" asto  read the 12 days within which the State has	 to  approvethe  order  under  section 3(3) into  the  period  which  isallowable under the expression "forthwith".  The result thenis that the report sent by the Commissioner to the State  on21-1-1956  could  be held to have been sent  "forthwith"  asrequired  by  section  3(3), only  if  the  authority  couldsatisfy us that, in spite of all diligence, it was not in  aposition  to send the report during the period from 13th  to21st January 1956.We  must  now examine the facts from the  above	 standpoint.The Commissioner of Police has filed an affidavit explainingwhy  the  reports  were not sent till  21,st  January  1956,though the orders themselves had been made as early as	13thJanuary 1956.  Ever since the publication of the proposal toform  a	 State of Maharashtra without the  city	 of  Bombay,there ,had been considerable agitation for the establishmentof a Samyuktha Maharashtra with the city of Bombay  includedin  it.	 An action committee had been set up  on  15-11-1955for  the  purpose,  and there had been	hartal	and  morchasresulting  in outbursts of lawlessness and violence  and  inthe  burning of a police chowki.  The final decision on	 thequestion  was  expected	 to be taken and  announced  in	 themiddle	of January 1956, and the atmosphere was highly	sur-charged.  It was in this situation that the Commis-662sioner decided to take action under section 3(2) of the	 Actagainst the leading spirits of -the movement, and passed thepresent	 orders	 for detention against	the  petitioners  on13-1-1956.  In his affidavit the Commissioner states that hedecided first "to locate the persons against whom orders  ofdetention were made by me on the 13th January 1956 and afterhaving done so, to arrest all of them simultaneously so thatnone  of  them	may  go	 underground  or  abscond  or  evadeexecution of the detention orders".  Then the affidavit goeson to state:"It  was not possible for me to send the report	 earlier  asthe  situation	in  the City of Greater	 Bombay	 was  tense,pregnant with danger on the 13th January 1956, and continuedto be so till 16th January 1956, and actual rioting occurredduring	that  night  and those	riots  continued  till	22ndJanuary	 1956.	I and my staff were kept extremely busy	 allthroughout  in maintaining law and order and  simultaneouslytaking	steps to round up miscreants.  In this	unusual	 andtense  situation,  it  was not possible	 to  make  a  reportearlier than the day on which it was made". -We  see no reason for not accepting these statements.	Whathappened on the 16th and the following days are now  mattersof  history.   The  great city of bombay  was  convulsed  indisorders,  which are among the worst that this country	 haswitnessed.   The Bombay police had a most difficult task  toperform	 in securing life and property, and the	 authoritiesmust  have been working at high pressure in maintaining	 lawand  order.   It is obvious that the  Commissioner  was	 notsleeping  over	the orders which he had passed	or  loungingsupinely over them.  The delay such as it is due, to  causesnot of his making, but to causes to which the activities  ofthe  petitioners  very	largely	 contributed.	We  have  nohesitation in accepting the affidavit, and we bold that	 thedelay  in sending the report could not have been avoided  bythe  Commissioner and that when they were sent by him,	theywere sent "forthwith" within the meaning of section 3(3)  ofthe Act.663Mr.  S.	 C. Gupta put forward some  special  contentions  onbehalf	of  the petitioners in C.M.Ps. Nos. 109 and  110  of1956. He contended that as the order originally made againstthe petitioner in C.M.P. No. 109 of 1956 was that he  shouldbe  detained  in Arthur Road Prison, Bombay  the  subsequentorder of the Commissioner by which he was detained in  NasikPrison	was  without  jurisdiction.  It is  clear  from	 theaffidavit  of the Commissioner that the petitioner  was	 notordered	 to be detained in Arthur Road Prison but  in  NasikRoad  Central  Prison, and that he was kept  temporarily  inArthur Road Prison, pending arrangements to transport him toNasik.	 It was next contended that the materials  on  whichthe  orders  of	 detention- were made and  set	out  in	 thecommunications	addressed to the petitioners all related  totheir  past activities, and that they could  not  constitutegrounds for detention in future.  This contention is clearlyunsound.   What a person is likely to do in future can	onlybe a matter of inference from various circumstances, and hispast record will be valuable, and often the only, record  onwhich it could be made.	 It was finally contended that	whatwas  alleged  against  the petitioners was  only  that	theyadvocated  hartal, and that was not a ground for  making  anorder of detention.  But the charge in these cases was	thatthe petitioners instigated hartal bringing about a  completestoppage  of  work, business and transport with	 a  view  topromote	 lawlessness and disorder, and that is a  ground  onwhich an order could be made under section 3(2).All the contentions urged by the petitioners therefore fail,and these petitions must be dismissed.664