PETITIONER:SHAMBU NATH MEHRA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF AJMER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:12/03/1956BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR  404		  1956 SCR  199ACT:Burden	of Proof-Proof of facts within	especial  knowledge-Facts  equally within the knowledge of the  prosecution	 andthe  accused,  if "especially within the knowledge"  of	 theaccused-Illustration,  Scope  of-Indian Evidence Act  (I  of1872), s. 106, Illustration (b).HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was  put up for trial under s.	420  of	 theIndian	Penal  Code  and  s.  5(2)  of	the  Prevention	  ofCorruption Act of 1947 for obtaining a total sum of Rs.	 23-12-0 from the Government as T.A., being second class railwayfares  for two journeys, one from Ajmer to Abu Road and	 theother  from Ajmer to Reengus, without having  actually	paidthe  said  fares.  The prosecution proved from	the  railwaybooks  and registers that no such second class tickets	wereissued	at Ajmer on the relevant dates and the same  witnesswho  proved  this also proved that tickets were	 not  alwaysissued	and the passengers could pay the fare in  the  trainand if the second class was fully booked, no further ticketswere issued till the train arrived,in which case  passengerssometimes  bought  third class or  inter-class	tickets	 andthereafter paid the difference to the guard of the train, ifthey could find second class accommodation on the arrival ofthe  train.  There was no proof that one or other -of  thosecourses	  were	not  followed  by  the	appellant  and	 theprosecution  instead  of  proving the absence  of  any	suchpayments, in the same way as it had proved the non-issue  ofsecond	class tickets, relied on Illustration (b) to s.	 106of  the	 Evidence  Act and contended that  it  was  for	 theappellant  to  prove that he had actually  paid	 the  secondclass fares.200Held,  that Illustration (b) to s. 106 of the  Evidence	 Acthad no application, the evidence adduced by the	 prosecutiondid not warrant a conviction and the accused should,  havingregard to the long lapse of time, be acquitted.That s. 106 of the Evidence Act does not abrogate the  well-established  rule  of  criminal	 law  that  except  in	veryexceptional  classes  of cases the burden that lies  on	 theprosecution to prove its case never shifts and s, 106 is notintended to relieve the prosecution of that burden.' On	 thecontrary,  it seeks to meet certain exceptional cases  whereit  is impossible, or disproportionately difficult, for	 theprosecution  to establish facts which are especially  withinthe knowledge of the accused and which can be proved by	 himwithout difficulty or inconvenience.  But when knowledge  ofsuch  facts  is equally available to the prosecution  if  itchooses to exercise due diligence, they cannot be said to beespecially  within  the	 knowledge of the  accused  and	 thesection cannot apply.Attygalle v. Emperor, (A.I.R. 1936 P.C. 169) and Seneviratnev.B., ([1936] 3 All E.R. 36), referred to.That  illustrations  to a section do not  exhaust  its	fullcontent even as they cannot curtail or expand its ambit, andin   applying  s.  106	the  balance  of  convenience,	 thecomparative  labour involved in finding out and proving	 thefacts  and  the ease with which the accused can	 prove	themmust be taken into consideration.That  cases  coming  under ss. 112 and	113  of	 the  IndianRailways  Act  to  which Illustration (b)  to  -s.  106	 hasobvious application stand on a different footing.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CriminalAppeal No. 65 of 1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe 2nd January 1953 of the Judicial Commissioner's Court atAjmer  in Criminal Appeal No. 3 of 1952 arising out  of	 thejudgment and order dated the 4th January, 1952 of the  Courtof  Sessions  Judge at Ajmer in Criminal Appeal No.  300  of1951.B.P. Berry and B. P. Maheshwari, for the appellant.C.   K. Daphtar Solicitor-General of India (PorusA.   Mehta and P. G. Gokhale, with him) for the respondent.1956.  March 12.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byBOSE J.-The appellant, S.N. Mehra, a Camp Clerk201Ajmer,	has been convicted of offences under section 420  ofthe Indian Penal Code and section 5(2) of the Prevention  ofCorruption Act, 1947 (Act II of 1947).	He was sentenced  totwo  years' rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs.  100  oneach count.  The substantive sentences are concurrent.  The  substance of the offences for which he was  convictedlay in obtaining sums to talling Rs. 23-12-0 from Governmentas T.A. for two journeys, one from Ajmer to Abu Road and theother  from  Ajmer  to Reengus.	 The  money  represents	 thesecond	 class	railway	 fare  for  these   journeys.	 Theallegation  against him is that either he did not travel  atall  between those places on the relevant dates, or,  if  hedid, that he did not pay the fare.  He  appealed	to  the	 Sessions Judge	 at  Ajmer  and	 wasacquitted.  The State filed an appeal against the  acquittalto the Judicial Commissioner of Ajmer' The learned  JudicialCommissioner  accepted the appeal and remanded the case	 forretrial before a Special Judge because, by reason of certainamendments  in	the law, only a Special Judge could  try  anoffence	 under section 5(2) of the Prevention of  CorruptionAct at the date of the remand.  The  appeal here raises certain questions  about  sanctionwhich  we do not intend to discuss because, in our  opinion,the  evidence  adduced	does not justify  a  retrial  as  noconviction for those two offences could be based on it.It  was first alleged that the appellant did not  travel  atall  on	 the relevant dates and that the burden	 of  provingthat he did was on him.  We  do  not  think this issue arises	because	 the  chargeassumes	 that he did travel and there is no evidence  beforeus to justify even a prima facie inference that he did	not.The charge runs- "That you, on or about etc  ... cheated the Government	  bydishonestly inducing the Government to pay you Rs. 62-9-0 onaccount	 of  T.A. for the journeys performed on	 the  above-mentioned days.........	 "202There is no suggestion that the journeys were not  performedand  only purported to be; and it would be unfair to  permitthe  State to go back on what it said in the charge at	thisstage,	especially  after the appellant has entered  on	 hisdefence	 and virtually admitted that he did travel on  thosedates;	in  any case, he has not denied the  fact  and	thatwould	naturally  operate  to	his  disadvantage   if	 theprosecution  were  to be allowed to change its	position  inthis  way.   We must therefore accept the fact that  he	 didtravel	as  alleged  on the relevant  dates,  and  the	onlyquestion  that remains is whether he paid the  second  classfares which he later claimed, and obtained, from  Governmentas T.A. for those journeys.  The  only  proof  that  is  adduced  in  support  of	 theallegation  that he did not is that no second class  ticketswere  issued at Ajmer on the relevant dates either  for	 AbuRoad  or for Reengus.  This is proved by the  Booking  ClerkRam Dayal, P.W. 4. But the same witness proves that  ticketsare  not always issued and that passengers can pay the	fareon  the train; also, if the second class is fully booked  nofurther	 tickets are issued till the arrival of	 the  train.In  that case, passengers sometimes buy a third class or  aninter-class  ticket  and  then pay  the	 difference  to	 theconductor  or  guard of the train if they are able  to	findsecond class accommodation when the train arrives.  There isno proof that one or other of these courses was not followedon  the	 dates	with which we are  concerned.	The  railwayregisters  and	books  would show whether or  not  any	suchpayments  were made on those dates and the State could	haveproved the absence of such payments as easily as it was ableto  prove,  from the same sort of material, that  no  secondclass tickets were issued.  Instead of doing that, the Statecontented  itself with saying that no second  class  ticketswere issued and, then relying on Illustration (b) to section106  of	 the Evidence Act, it contended that the  burden  ofproving that the accused did pay the second class fares	 wason him.Illustration (b) runs thus:"A is charged with travelling on  a railway with-       203       out a ticket.  The burden of proving that he had a ticket is       on him".       But this is only an illustration and must be read subject to       the section itself and cannot travel beyond it. The  section       runs-       "When  any  fact is especially within the knowledge  of	any       person, the burden of proving that fact is on him".       The stress, in our opinion, is on the word "especially".       Section	106  is an exception to section 101.   Section	101       lays down the general rule about the burden of proof.       "Whoever desires any Court to give judgment as to any  legal       right or liability dependent on the existence of facts which       he asserts, must prove that those facts exist".       Illustration (a) says-       "A desires a Court to give judgment that B shall be punished       for a crime which A says B has committed.       A must prove that B has committed the crime".       This lays down the general rule that in a criminal case	the       burden  of  proof is on the prosecution and section  106	 is       certainly  not intended to relieve it of that duty.  On	the       contrary,  it is designed to meet certain exceptional  cases       in   which   it	would  be  impossible,	or  at	 any   rate       disproportionately   difficult,	for  the   prosecution	 to       establish facts which are "especially" within the  knowledge       of  the accused and which he could prove without	 difficulty       or inconvenience.  The word       "especially"  stresses  that.   It  means  facts	 that	are       preeminently or exceptionally within his knowledge.  If	the       section	were to be interpreted otherwise, it would lead	 to       the  very  startling conclusion that in a  murder  case	the       burden  lies on the accused to prove that he did not  commit       the murder because who could know better than he whether	 he       did or did not.	It is evident that cannot be the  intention       and  the	 Privy Council has twice refused to  construe  this       section, as reproduced in certain other Acts outside  India,       to mean that the       204       burden  lies  on an accused person to show that be  did	not       commit  the  crime for which he is tried.  These	 cases	are       Attygalle v. Emperor(1) and Seneviratne v.       R.  (2).       Illustration  (b) to section 106 has obvious reference to  a       very special type of case, namely to offences under sections       112  and	 113 of the Indian Railways Act for  travelling	 or       attempting  to  travel without a pass or ticket or  with	 an       insufficient  pass,  etc.  Now if a passenger is seen  in  a       railway carriage, or at the ticket barrier, and is unable to       produce a ticket or explain his presence, it would obviously       be  impossible  in most cases for the railway to	 prove,	 or       even with due diligence to find out, where he came from	and       where he is going and whether or not be purchased a  ticket.       On the other band, it would be comparatively simple for	the       passenger  either to produce his pass or ticket or,  in	the       case  of loss or of some other valid explanation, to set	 it       out;  and so far as proof is concerned, it would	 be  easier       for  him to prove the substance of his explanation than	for       the State to establish its falsity.       We recognise that an illustration does not exhaust the  full       content	of the section which it illustrates but equally	 it       can  neither curtail nor expand its ambit; and if  knowledge       of  certain facts is as much available to  the  prosecution,       should  it  choose  to exercise due  diligence,	as  to	the       accused, the facts cannot be said to be "especially"  within       the knowledge of the accused.  This is a section which  must       be  considered  in  a commonsense way; and  the	balance	 of       convenience  and the disproportion of the labour that  would       be  involved  in	 finding  out  and  proving  certain  facts       balanced	 against the triviality of the issue at	 stake	and       the  ease with which the accused could prove them,  are	all       matters that must be taken into consideration.  The  section       cannot be used to undermine the well established rule of law       that,  save in a very exceptional class of case, the  burden       is on the prosecution and never shifts.       Now what is the position here?  These journeys       (1) A.I.R. 1936 P.C. 169.       (2) [1936] 3 All E.R. 36, 49.       205       were  performed on 8-9-1948 and 15-9-1948.  The	prosecution       was launched on 19-4-1950 and the appellant was called  upon       to answer the charge on 9-3-1951; and now that the case	has       been remanded we are in the year 1956.  The appellant,  very       naturally, said on 27-4-1951, two and a half years after the       alleged offences:       "It is humanly impossible to give accurate explanations	for       the journeys in question after such a lapse of time".       And what of the prosecution?  They have their registers	and       books,  both of the railway and of the department  in  which       the  appellant  works.  They are in a position to  know	and       prove  his official movements on the relevant  dates.   They       are in a position to show that no vouchers or receipts  were       issued for a second class journey by the guard or  conductor       of  the trains on those days.  This information was as  much       within  their  "especial"  knowledge  as	 in  that  of	the       appellant;  indeed it is difficult to see how with  all	the       relevant	 books and other material in the possession of	the       authorities,  these  facts  can be said	to  be	within	the       "especial" knowledge of the appellant after such a lapse	 of       time however much it may once have been there.  It would, we       feel,  be wrong to allow these proceedings to  continue	any       longer.	 The  appellant has been put upon  his	trial,	the       prosecution has had full and ample opportunity to prove	its       case  and it can certainly not complain of want of  time	 to       search  for and prepare its material.  No  conviction  could       validly	rest on the material so far produced and  it  would       savour  of  harassment to allow the continuance	of  such  a       trial  without  the  slightest  indication  that	 there	 is       additional  evidence  available which could  not	 have  been       discovered  and produced with the exercise of  diligence	 at       the earlier stages.       We  set	aside the order of the	Judicial  Commissioner	and       restore	the  order  of the Sessions  Judge  acquitting	the       appellant on both counts of the charge framed against him.       27       206