PETITIONER:C.S. D. SWAMY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATEDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/05/1959BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR    7		  1960 SCR  (1) 461 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC 583	 (8) R	    1962 SC 605	 (19) D	    1962 SC1204	 (4) R	    1964 SC 464	 (13,37) F	    1971 SC 786	 (13) R	    1977 SC2091	 (5) R	    1979 SC 602	 (6) R	    1981 SC1186	 (11,13) R	    1990 SC1459	 (30)ACT:Prevention of Corruption-Criminal misconduct in discharge ofofficial  duty-Charge  in respect of specific  instances  ofcorruption found unsustainable on evidence-Conviction  basedon presumption Validity-Prevention of Corruption Act,  1947,(2 of 1947), ss.5(1)(a), 5(1)(d), 5(3).HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was  put up on trial on	 charges  under	 ss.5(1)(a)	 and  5(1)(d) of the Prevention of  Corruption	Act,1947.  Payments of particular sums by way of bribe were	 notproved	against him.  But the High Court, holding  that	 theappellant's bare statements from the dock unsupported by anyother  acceptable evidence could not satisfactorily  accountfor  the large deposits standing to his credit in  his	bankaccounts raised the presumption under s. 5(3) of the Act andheld  him guilty of criminal misconduct in the discharge  ofhis  official duty under s. 5(1)(d) of the  Act,  concerningthe conviction and sentence passed on him by the462special	 Magistrate.   It  was contended on  behalf  of	 theappellant that the charge relating to specific instances  ofbribery having failed, the contrary to the presumption underS. 5(3) Of the Act should have been held as established	 andin absence of any finding that his statements were false  itshould	have been held that the charge against him  had	 notbeen proved beyond all reasonable doubt.  Held, that S. 5(3) of the Prevention of Corruption Act didnot  create  a	new offence but only laid  down	 a  rule  ofevidence  that empowered the Court to presume the  guilt  ofthe accused in certain circumstances, contrary to the  well-known principle of criminal law that the burden of proof wasalways	on  the	 prosecution and never	shifted	 on  to	 theaccused. The  Legislature by using the expression  "  satisfactorilyaccount	 "  in S. 5(3) of the, Act, cast the burden  on	 theaccused not only to offer a plausible explanation as to	 howhe  came by the large wealth disproportionate to  his  knownsources	 of income, but also to satisfy the court  that	 hisexplanation  was  worthy of credence.	Consequently,  casesunder  the  general  law where it had  been  held  that	 theaccused	 could	be  exonerated if  he  offered	a  plausibleexplanation could have no application. The  expression  " known sources of income " used  in	thatsection	 referred to such sources of income as became  knownto  the	 prosecution as a result of  the  investigation	 andcould not mean those that were witthin the special knowledgeof  the	 accused,  and it was no part of  the  duty  of	 theprosecution to lead evidence in that regard.Where the prosecution fulfilled the conditions laid down  bythe  earlier  part  of s. 5(3) Of  the	Act,  the  statutorypresumption had to be raised and it would be for the accusedto rebut the same by cogent evidence.Rex  v.	 Carrbriant,  (1943) 1 K.B.  607,  and	Otto  GeorgeGfeller v.     The  King,  A.I.R. (30) 1943 P.C.  211;	HateSingh Bhagat Singh v.	 State of Madhya Bharat, A.I.R. 1953S.C.  468  and	Regina	v.  Dunbar,  1958  1  Q.B.  1,	heldinapplicable.   The failure to substantiate a charge under S. 5(1)(a)  ofthe Act on evidence would not necessarily mean an  acquittalin respect of a charge under S. 5(1)(d) of the Act.  If	 therequirements of the earlier part of S. 5(3) were establishedby  evidence,  conviction for criminal misconduct  under  s.5(1)(d)	 based on the presumption under S. 5(3) Of  the	 Actwould be perfectly valid in law.JUDGMENT:  CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.	 177of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril 11, 1957, of the Punjab High Court in Criminal  AppealNo. 7-D of 1955, arising out of the463judgment  and order dated January 19, 1955, of the Court  ofSpecial Judge, at Delhi in Corruption Cas No. 2 of 1953.  G. S. Pathak, R. Ganapathy Iyer and G. Gopalakrishnan, forthe appellant.   C.	  K.  Daphtary,	 Solicitor-General  of	India,	G.C.Mathur and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents.    1959.  May 21.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySINHA  J.-This appeal by special leave is  directed  againstthe  judgment and order of the High Court on Judicature	 forthe  State  of Punjab at Chandigarh dated  April  11,  1957,affirming  those of the Special Judge, Delhi, dated  January19,  1955,  convicting the appellant under s.  5(2)  of	 thePrevention  of	Corruption Act (2 of  1947).   The  sentencepassed	 upon  the  appellant  was  six	  months'   rigorousimprisonment.  The facts leading upto this appeal, may shortly be  statedas  follows: During and after the Second World War,  with  aview  to augmenting the food resources of the  country,	 theGovernment  of India instituted a "Grow More Food  Division"in the Ministry of Agriculture.	 S. Y. Krishnaswamy, a JointSecretary  in; that Ministry, was placed in charge  of	thatDivision,  with effect from January 2, 1947.  The  appellantwas  working in that Department as Director of	Fertilizers.He  was	 a former employee of the  well-known  producers  offertilizers,  etc., called "Imperial Chemical Industries  ".Fertilizers  were  in  short  supply  and,  therefore  largequantities  of	such  fertilizers had to  be  imported	fromabroad.	  As chemical fertilizers were in short	 supply	 notonly  in  India but elsewhere also,  an	 international	bodyknown  as  the	" International	 Emergency  Food  Council  "(I.E.F.C.) had been set up in United States of America,	 andIndia was a member of the same.	 That body used to  considerthe  requirements  of  different  countries  in	 respect  offertilizers, and used to make allotments.  Russia was not  amember	of  that Organisation.	Towards the end of  1946,  aBombay firm, called 'Messrs.  Nanavati and Company',464which used to deal in fertilizers and had bussiness  contctswith Russia, offered to supply ammonium sulphate,from Russiato  the	 Government of India.  In the years 1947  and  1948,considerable  quantities of ammonium sulphate were  obtainedthrough Messrs.	 Nanavati and Company aforesaid.  One D.  N.Patel,	who was a former employee of Messrs.   Nanavati	 andCompany,  joined a partnership business under the  style  ofMessrs.	  Agri Orient Industries Limited of  Bombay'.	Thisfirm obtained a contract from the Government for the  supplyof  twenty  thousand tons of ammonium sulphate	from  UnitedStates of America, in February, 1950.  In the course of thisbusiness deal, the said patel experienced some difficulty inobtaining  Government  orders regarding	 some  consignments.The  appelant was approached in that connection; and  it  isaleged that Patel paid to the appellant Rs. 10,000 at Bombayas  bribe  for facilitating matters.  But in  spite  of	 thealleged	 payment, difficulties and delays occurred  and	 theconsignments,  even after they had reached heir	 destinationin  India,  were  not  moving  fast  enough,  thus,  causingconsiderable loss to the firm in which Patel was interested.Patel,	therefore approached Shri K. M. Munshi who was	thenthe  Minister  For  Food  and  Agriculture  in	Delhi,	 anddisclosed to him the alleged payment of bribe of Rs. 10,000,as also the fact that the appellant had been receiving	argesums  of money by way of bribes for showing favours  in	 thedischarge  of  his duties in the Department.   The  Ministeraforesaid  directed thorough enquiries to be made,  and	 thematter	was placed in the hands of the Inspector-General  ofSpecial Police Establishment.  A departmental committee	 wasalso  set up of three senior officers of the  Department  tohold a departmental inquiry, and ultimately, as a result  ofthat inquiry, the Minister passed orders of dismissal of theappellant, in August, 1950.  A further inquiry in the natureof  a  quasi-judicial  inquiry, was held  by  the  late	 Mr.Justice Rajadhyaksha of the Bombay High Court, in 1951.	 Theinquiry	 related  to matters concerned with  the  import  offertilizers into India.	 After receipt of the report of	 theinquiry by465the  late  Mr. Justice Rajadhyaksha, in January,  1952,	 andafter consideration of the matters disclosed in that report,a first information report was lodged on April 4, 1952,	 andthorough investigations were made into the complaints.	 Theresult	was that two cases were instituted.  The  first	 onerelated to an-" alleged conspiracy involving the  appellant,Krishnaswamy and one of the proprietors of Messrs.  Nanavatiand  Company,  and several others, relating to	bribery	 andcorruption  in	connection  with the  supplies	of  ammoniumsulphate from Russia.  With that case, we are not  concernedhere.  -The  second case, out of which	the  present  appealarose,	was  instituted	 against  two  persons,	 namely	 theappellant  and	Krishnaswamy, that they had entered  into  aconspiracy  to	receive	 bribes and  presents  from  variousfirms,	in connection with the import of  fertilizers.	 Thelearned	 Special Judge, who heard the prosecution  evidence,came  to  the  conclusion  that	 it  did  not  disclose	 anyconspiracy  as	alleged, except in certain  instances  whichformed the subject-matter of the charge of conspiracy  whichwas being tried separately, as aforesaid.  The present case,therefore,  proceeded against the appellant alone under	 twoheads  of  charge, namely, (1) that he had  been  habituallyaccepting  or obtaining, for himself or for others,  illegalgratifications	from a number of named firms and others,  inconnection with the import and distribution of	fertilizers-s.  5(1)  (a)  of the Prevention  of  Curruption  Act,	1947(hereinafter referred to as 'the Act'), and (2) that he	 hadbeen  habitually  receiving  presents of  various  kinds  byabusing his position as a public servants. 6 (1) (d) of	 theAct.  The High Court, in agreement with the learned  SpecialJudge,	found the evidence of P. Ws. 9 and 10, who were	 theprincipal  prosecution witnesses as regards the	 passing  ofcertain	 sums  of  money from certain  named  firms  to	 theappellant, as wholly unreliable.  Further more, Patel, beingin the position of an accomplice, his evidence did not	findsufficient corroboration from other facts and  circumstancesproved in the case.  The High Court, not being is a positionto  accept  the tainted evidence aforesaid, found  that	 thecase of payment of59466particular  sums  of money by way of bribes,  had  not	beenestablished.  But relying upon the presumption under  sub-s.(3)  of	 s.  8	of  the Act, the  High	Court  came  to	 theconclusion   that  the	appellant  had	not   satisfactorilyaccounted  for	the receipt of Rs. 73,000 odd  in  cash	 andabout Rs. 18,000 by cheques, during the years 1947 and 1948,which  sums were wholly disproportionate to the	 appellant'sknown  source of income, namely, his salary as a  Governmentservant, and that, therefore, he was guilty of criminal mis-conduct	 in the discharge of his official duties.   In	thatview of the matter, the High Court confirmed the  convictionand sentence of six months' rigorous imprisonment, passed bylearned Special Judge of Delhi.  The learned counsel for the appellant has contended (1)  thaton the admitted facts, the ingredients of s. 5(3)   of	 theAct,  had not been established, (2) that when the charge  inrespect	 of specific instances of corruption, has  not	beenproved,	 as found by the courts below, it should  have	beenheld that the contrary of the presumption contemplated by s.5(3), namely, of the guilt of criminal misconduct, had	beenestablished, and (3) that the appellant's statement under s.342  of	 the  Code  of	Criminal  Procedure,  as  also	 hisstatements contained in his written statement, had not	beenproved to be false, and that, therefore, it should have beenheld that the case against the appellant had not been provedbeyond all reasonable doubt.  It is true that s. 5(3) of the Act, does not create a	 newoffence but only lays down a rule of evidence, enabling	 thecourt	to   raise  a  presumption  of	guilt	in   certaincircumstances a rule which is a complete departure from	 theestablished  principles of criminal jurisprudence  that	 theburden	always	lies  on the prosecution to  prove  all	 theingredients  of	 the offence charged, and  that	 the  burdennever shifts on to the accused to disprove the charge framedagainst him.  With reference to the provisions of s. 5(3) ofthe Act, it has been contended, in the first instance,	thatthe  charge of criminal misconduct in the discharge  of	 hisofficial duties, is now confined to the fact as disclosed inhis bank accounts with the Imperial Bank of India467(New  Delhi  Branch)  and  the	Chartered  Bank	 of   India,Australia  and China (Chandni Chowk Branch), that  his	nettcredit with those banks totalled upto a figure just over Rs.91,000.	 He accounted for that large balance by stating thathe was the only son of his father who had been able to	givehim advanced education in England for a period of over sevenyears;	that after his return to India, he had been  holdinghighly	paid  posts  for  about 20  years  in  the  ImperialChemical  Industries, in the Army and in the  Government  ofIndia;	that  he  had no children and  no  other  dependantsexcept	his wife; that with his limited household  expenses,he  was able to save a good round sum out of his salary	 andallowances  which were considerable, because his  duty	tookhim  throughout the length and breadth of the country,	thusenabling  him  to  earn	 large	sums  of  money	 by  way  oftravelling  allowances	which he saved by staying  with	 hisfriends	 and relations during his official tours.  He  addedthat he had received a gratuity for services rendered to theArmy,  and also considerable sums of money as his  providentfund from the Imperial Chemical Industries, towards the	 endof November, 1947.  He also stated that his deposits in	 thetwo banks aforesaid, represented sums of money saved in cashout of his salaries, allowances and gifts from his  parents,as also re-payments of loans advanced by him to his  friendswhile he was in the Army, and later.  He added that some  ofthe  deposits  in cash were really  re-deposits	 of  earlierwithdrawals from the banks, as also the sale-proceeds of hisold car sold in June, 1948, for Rs. 5,500, together with thesale-proceeds  of  gold jewelry belonging to his  wife.	  Healso tried to explain the large deposits of cash in 1948, byalleging  that he had borrowed a sum of rupees	20,000	fromone Ganpat Ram on a pronote (which he, later on, re-paid andobtained a receipt), with a view to building a house of	 hisown  in	 Delhi,	 but as that negotiation  fell	through,  hedeposited  that cash amount in his account in the two  banksaforesaid  in August, 1948, as the creditor aforesaid  wouldnot  accept  re-payment of the loan within a period  of	 twoyears, unless the interest for that period was also paid468at the same time.  With reference to those statements of theaccused	 from  the  dock, it was contended  by	the  learnedcounsel	 for  the accused that in view of  those  facts,  itcould  not  be said that the accused had not  accounted	 forthose large deposits with the two banks aforesaid.  The HighCourt  has  pointed out that the matters alleged  in  the  ,statement  aforesaid of the accused, were capable  of  beingeasily	proved by evidence which had not been adduced;	thatallegation was no proof, and that his lucrative posts in theImperial  Chemical Industries and in the Army, were  mattersof  history in relation to the period for which	 the  chargehad  been  framed.   The High  Court,  therefore,  found  itimpossible to accept the appellant's bare statement from thedock  as to how amounts earned far in the past,	 could	findtheir way into the banks during the years 1947 and 1948.  Ithas  been repeatedly observed by this Court that this  Courtis  not	 a  Court  of criminal appeal,	and  we	 would	not,therefore, examine the reasons of the High Court for  comingto certain conclusions of fact.	 Apparently, the High  Courtconsidered  all the relevant statements made by the  accusedunder  s. 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and  in	 hiswritten	 statement,  and came to the conclusion	 that  thosestatements had not been substantiated.	We cannot go  behindthose findings of fact.Reference  was also made to cases in which courts  had	heldthat if plausible explanation had been offered by an accusedperson	for  being in possession of property which  was	 thesubject-matter of the charge, the court could exonerate	 theaccused	  from	 criminal  responsibility   for	  possessingincriminating property.	 In our opinion, those cases have nobearing upon the charge against the appellant in this  case,because	 the  section  requires	 the  accused  person  to  "satisfactorily	account."  for the possession  of  pecuniaryresources or property disproportionate to his known  sourcesof  income.   Ordinarily, an accused person is	entitled  toacquittal  if  he  can	account	 for  honest  possession  ofproperty which has been proved to have been recently  stolen(see illustration (a) to s. 114 of the Indian Evidence	Act,1872).	The rule of law is that if there469is a prima facie explanation of the accused that he came  bythe  stolen goods in an honest way, the inference of  guiltyknowledge  is  displaced.   This is  based  upon  the  well-established  principle that if there is a doubt in the	mindof the court as to a necessary ingredient of an offence, thebenefit	 of  that  doubt must go to the	 accused.   But	 theLegislature    has    advisedly	   used	   the	  expression"satisfactorily account". , The emphasis must be on the word"   satisfactorily  ",	and  the  Legislature	has,   thus,deliberately cast a burden on the accused not only to  offera  plausible  explanation  as to how he came  by  his  largewealth,	 but also to satisfy the court that his	 explanationwas worthy of acceptance.Another argument bearing on the same aspect of the case,  isthat the prosecution has not led evidence to show as to whatare  the known sources of the appellant's income.   In	thisconnection, our attention was invited to the evidence of theInvestigating Officers, and with reference to that evidence,it  was	 contended  that those officers have  not  said,  interms,	as to what were the known sources of income  of	 theaccused,  or  that  the salary was the only  source  of	 hisincome.	  Now,	the expression " known sources of  income  "must have reference to sources known to the prosecution on athorough  investigation	 of the case.  It was  not,  and  itcould  not  be, contended that " known sources of  income  "means sources known to the accused.  The prosecution cannot,in  the	 very  nature of things, be  expected  to  know	 theaffairs	 of  an	 accused person.  Those will  be  matters  "specially  within the knowledge" of the accused, within	 themeaning of s. 106 of the Evidence Act.	The prosecution	 canonly  lead evidence, as it has done in the instant case,  toshow  that  the	 accused was known to  earn  his  living  byservice	 under	the Government during the  material  period.The  prosecution would not be justified in  concluding	thattravelling  allowance was also a source of income when	suchallowance  is  ordinarily  meant to  compensate	 an  officerconcerned  for	his  out-of-pocket  expenses  incidental  tojourneys  performed  by him for his  official  tours.	Thatcould not possibly be alleged470to  be a very substantial source of income.  The  source  ofincome	of  a  particular individual will  depend  upon	 hisposition in life with particular reference to his occupationor avocation in life.  In the case of a, Government servant,the  prosecution  would,  naturally, infer  that  his  knownsource	of income would be the salary earned by -him  duringhis active service.  His pension or his provident fund wouldcome  into calculation only after his retirement, unless  hehad  a justification for borrowing from his provident  fund.We  are not, therefore, impressed by the argument  that	 theprosecution  has  failed to lead proper evidence as  to	 theappellant's  known  sources of income.	It may be  that	 theaccused	 may  have  made  statements  to  the  InvestigatingOfficers as to his alleged sources of income, but the  same,strictly,  would  not be evidence in the case,	and  if	 theprosecution has failed to disclose all the sources of incomeof  an	accused person, it is always open to  him  to  provethose other sources of income which have not been taken intoaccount or brought into evidence by the prosecution.  In thepresent case, the prosecution has adduced the best  evidenceas to the pecuniary resources of the accused person, namely,his bank accounts.  They show that during the years 1947 and1948, he had credit at the banks, amounting to a little overRs.  91,000.   His  average salary per	mensem,	 during	 therelevant  period,  would be a little over  Rs.	1,100.	 Hissalary,	 during the period of the two years,  assuming	thatthe whole amount was put into the banks, would be less	thanone-third of the total amount aforesaid, to his credit.	  Itcannot, therefore, be said that he was not in possession  ofpecuniary resources disproportionate to his known sources ofincome. It  was next contended that the burden cast on the  accusedby sub s.(3) of s. 5 of the Act, was not such a heavy burdenas  lies  on  the prosecution positively to  prove  all	 theingredients  of an offence.  In that  connection,  referencewas  made  to  a number of decisions,  particularly  Rex  v.Carrbriant(1), to the effect(1)  (1943) 1 K. B. 607, referred to under Art. 3907  at  p.1511  in Archbold Criminal Pleading Evidence and  Practice',34th Edn.471that  the onus of proof lies on the accused person  to	showthat  a	 certain proved payment was in fact  not  a  corruptpayment, but that the burden is -less heavy than that which,ordinarily, lies on the prosecution to prove its case beyondall  reasonable	 doubt.	  Reference was also  made  to	OttoGeorge	Gfeller v. The King (1), Hate Sing Bhagat  Singh  v.State of Madhya Bharat (2) and Regina v. Dunbar(3).  In	 ouropinion, those decisions do not assist the appellant in	 thepresent case.  In this case, no acceptable evidence,  beyondthe bare statements of the accused, has been adduced to showthat   the  contrary  of  what	has  been  proved   by	 theprosecution,  has been established, because the	 requirementof the section is that the accused person shall be  presumedto be guilty of criminal misconduct 'in the discharge of hisofficial duties " unless the contrary is proved." The  wordsof  the statute are peremptory, and the burden must lie	 allthe  time on the accused to prove the contrary.	  After	 theconditions laid down in the earlier part of sub-s. (3) of s.5  of  the  Act,  have been fulfilled  by  evidence  to	 thesatisfaction of the court, as discussed above, the court hasgot  to	 raise the presumption that the	 accused  person  isguilty	of  criminal  misconduct in  the  discharge  of	 hisofficial duties, and this presumption continues to hold	 thefield unless the contrary is proved, that is to say,  unlessthe  court is satisfied that the statutory  presumption	 hasbeen  rebutted	by  cogent evidence.   Not  only  that,	 thesection goes further and lays down in forceful words that  "his conviction therefore shall not be invalid by reason onlythat it is based solely on such presumption."  Lastly, it was argued that when the section speaks of	 theburden being on the accused person to prove the contrary, itmust  mean  adducing evidence to disprove the  charge.	 Theargument proceeds that as in the present case, the facts andcircumstances  mentioned in the charge had not been  proved,the accused person must be acquitted as having disproved thecharge	with  reference to the particular cases	 of  briberywhich had been held not proved.	 In our opinion, there is a(1) A.I.R. 1943 P.C. 211.   (2) A.I R. 1953 S.C. 468.(3) [1958] 1 Q.B. 1472fallacy in this argument.  The finding of the High Court andthe  court  below,  is that the prosecution  had  failed  toadduce	sufficient evidence to prove those particular  factsand circumstances of criminal misconduct within the  meaningof  s.	5(1)(a)	 of the Act, but the failure  to  bring	 thecharge	home  to  the accused under  s.	 5(1)(a),  does	 notnecessarily lead to the legal effect contended for.  As soonas  the	 requirements of sub-section (3) of s. 5  have	beenfulfilled,the  Court will not only be justified	 in  making,but is called upon to make, the presumption that the accusedperson is guilty of criminal  misconduct within the  meaningof s. 5(1)(d). In   order  to  succeed	in  respect  of	 thecharge under s.	    5(1)(a),  the prosecution has  to  provethat  the accused person had accepted or obtained or  agreedto  accept  or	attempted  to obtain  from  any	 person	 anygratification  by way of bribe within the meaning of s.	 161of  the Indian Penal Code.  That charge failed	because	 theevidence  of P.W. 9 was not accepted by' the High  Court  orthe  trial  court.   The charge under s.  5(1)(d)  does	 notrequire any such proof.	 If there is evidence forthcoming tosatisfy	 the requirements of the earlier part of sub-s.	 (3)of  s. 5, conviction for criminal misconduct can be had	 -onthe basis of the presumption which is a legal presumption tobe drawn from the proof of facts in the earlier part of	 thesub-s.	(3) aforesaid.	That is what has been found  by	 thecourts below against the accused person.  Hence, the failureof the charge under cl. (a) of sub-s. (1) of s. 5, does	 notnecessarily mean the failure of the charge under s. 5(1)(d).  In our opinion, the judgment of the High Court is correct,and  the appeal is, accordingly, dismissed.  If the  accusedis on bail, he must surrender to his bail bond.			    Appeal dismissed.473