PETITIONER:RAMJI LAL MODI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF U.P.DATE OF JUDGMENT:05/04/1957BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  620		  1957 SCR  860ACT:   Insult  to  Religion-Law making such insult	an  offence-Constitutional	validity--If violates freedom of speech	 andexpression--Indian  Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860),  s.  295A-Constitution of India, Arts. 19(1)(a), 19(2), 25, 26.HEADNOTE: This was a petition challenging the constitutional validityof  s.	295A of the Indian Penal Code and for  quashing	 thepetitioner's conviction thereunder for publishing an articlein a monthly magazine of which he was the printer, publisherand  the  editor.  It was contended on his behalf  that	 theimpugned section infringed his fundamental right to  freedomof  speech and expression conferred by Art. 19(1)(a) of	 theConstitution   and  was	 not  a	 law   imposing	  reasonablerestrictions  on the right in the interests of public  orderunder cl. (2) of Art. 19, which alone could have afforded  ajustification for it.  Held,	 that  s.  295A of the Indian Penal  Code  was	wellwithin	the  protection	 of  Cl.  (2)  of  Art.	 19  of	 theConstitution and its validity was beyond question.  The  expression  "in the interests of"  occurring  in	 theamended	 Cl.  (2) of Art. 19 had the effect  of	 making	 theprotection  afforded by that clause very wide and a law	 notdirectly  designed  to maintain public order would  well  bewithin its protection if such activities as it penalised hada tendency to cause public disorder.Debi  Soron v. The State of Bihar, A.I.R. (1954)  Pat.	254,referred to.It  was	 absurd	 to suggest that insult to  religion  as  anoffence	 could	have  no bearing on public order  so  as  toattract	 cl.  (2) Of Art. 19 in view of	 the  provisions  ofArts.	25   and  26  of  the  Constitution   which,   whileguaranteeing freedom of religion, expressly made it  subjectto public order.861Nor,  having  regard to the language and ingredients  of  S.295A  of the Indian Penal Code, could it be  contended	thatthe  restrictions imposed by it could be used  for  purposesother	than  those  falling  within  the  limits   of	 theConstitution.Romesh	Thappar v. The State of Madras, (1950)	S.C.R.	594;Brij  Bushan  v. The State of Delhi, (1950) S.C.R.  605	 andChintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, (1950)  S.C.R.759, held inapplicable.JUDGMENT:   ORIGINAL CRIMINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 252 of 1956.Petition  under	 Article  32 of	 the  Constitution  for	 theenforcement of fundamental rights.  Veda	 Vyasa,	 S.  K.	 Kapur	and  Ganpat  Rai,  for	 thepetitioner.  G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.    1957.  April 5. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby  DAS  C.J.-This  is a petition filed under Art. 32  of	 theConstitution of India praying for a declaration that s. 295Aof the Indian Penal Code is ultra vires and unconstitutionaland  for  a writ in the nature of  certiorari  quashing	 thepetitioner's conviction under that section and for ancillaryreliefs. The  material	facts  lie within  a  narrow  compass.	 Thepetitioner is the editor, printer and publisher of a monthlymagazine called Gaurakshak.  The magazine is devoted to	 cowprotection.   In  July	or  August,  1954,  a  Hindi   Dailynewspaper  named  'Amrit Patrika' of Allahabad	printed	 andpublished an article or a cartoon about a donkey on which anagitation was started by the muslims of Uttar Pradesh.	 Theeditor	and  printer and publisher of 'Amrit  Patrika'	wereprosecuted  by	the  State, but they  have  been  eventuallyacquitted by the High Court of Allahabad.  In the  meantime,in   its  issue	 for  the  month  of  Kartik  Samvat   2009,corresponding to November, 1952, an article was published inthe  petitioner's  magazine 'Gaurakshak.'  On  December	 12,1952,  the State Government ordered the prosecution  of	 thepetitioner on the basis of the said article.  Accordingly onJune  8,  1953,acomplaint  was filed in	 the  court  of	 theDistrict Magistrate, Kanpur,111862by the Senior Superintendent of Police, Kanpur, against	 thepetitioner  for	 offences  under ss. 153A and  295A  of	 theIndian Penal Code.  The Magistrate by his order dated August5, 1953, charged the petitioner under ss. 153A and 295A	 andcommitted the petitioner to the Sessions Court of Kanpur fortrial.	 The  petitioner pleaded not  guilty.	The  learnedSessions  Judge,  by his judgment dated November  16,  1953,acquitted  the	petitioner of the charge under s.  153	Abutconvicted  him under s. 295A and sentenced him to 18  monthsrigorous  imprisonment	and  a fine of	Rs.  2,000  and,  indefault	 of  payment  of  the  fine,  to  further   rigorousimprisonment of 4 months.  The petitioner filed an appeal tothe  High Court at Allahabad.  The learned Single Judge,  byhis  judgment dated October 25, 1956, held that the  articlewas published with the deliberate and malicious intention ofoutraging  the	religious feelings of muslims and  that	 thepetitioner  was	 guilty under s. 295A of  the  Indian  PenalCode.	The learned Judge, however, reduced the sentence  ofimprisonment  to 12 months and -the fine from Rs.  2,000  toRs.  250 only.	An application for certificate to appeal  tothis  Court under Arts. 132 and 134 having been rejected  bythe  High  Court on October 30, 1956, the  petitioner  movedthis Court for special leave to appeal from the judgment  ofthe  Allahabad	High  Court dated  October  25,	 1956.	 Thepetitioner  also on December 5, 1956, presented the  presentpetition under Art. 32 for the reliefs mentioned above.	 Thepetitioner also made an application in this Court along withthe  writ petition for stay of the sentence passed  on	him.On  December  18, 1956, both the stay  application  and	 thepetition  for  special leave were dismissed by	this  Court.The  petition  under Art. 32 has now come  up  for  hearing.Presumably the petitioner has surrendered and is  undergoingthe sentence of imprisonment.Learned counsel appearing in support of this petition  urgesthat  s.  295A of the Indian Penal Code is ultra  vires	 andvoid  inasmuch as it interferes with the petitioner's  rightto  freedom of speech and expression guaranteed to him as  acitizen of India by Art. 19(1)(a) of our Constitution.	 Thecontention is that this section863cannot	 be   supported	 as  a	 law   imposing	  reasonablerestrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by	Art.19(1)(a)  as  provided	in  cl. (2)  of	 the  said  Article.Learned	 counsel says that the interest of public  order  isthe only thing in cl. (2) which may possibly be relied	uponby the State as affording a justification for its claim	 forthe  validity  of the impugned section.	 A  law	 interferingwith  the  freedom of speech and expression and	 imposing  apunishment  for	 its breach may, says counsel,	be  "in	 theinterests of public order" only if the likelihood of  publicdisorder  is  made  an ingredient of  the  offence  and	 theprevention  of public disorder is a matter of proximate	 andnot  remote consideration.  Learned counsel points out	thatinsulting  the religion or the religious beliefs of a  classof citizens of India may not lead to public disorder in	 allcases although it may do so in some case.  Therefore,  wherea  law purports, as the impugned section does, to  authorisethe  imposition	 of  restriction  on  the  exercise  of	 thefundamental  right  to freedom of speech and  expression  inlanguage  wide enough to cover restrictions both within	 andwithout	 the  limitation  of  constitutionally	 permissiblelegislative  action affecting such right, the  court  shouldnot uphold it even in so far as it may be applied within theconstitutionally permissible limits as it is not  severable.So long as the possibility of its being applied for purposesnot  sanctioned by the Constitution cannot be ruled  out  itmust,  according  to learned counsel, be held to  be  whollyunconstitutional  and void.  Reference has been made to	 thecases of Romesh Thappar v. The St-ate of Madras(1) and	BrijBushan v. The State of Delhi (2). In  Romesh Thappar's case, in exercise of powers  conferredon  him	 by s. 9(1 -A) of the Madras Maintenance  of  PublicOrder  Act,  1949, the Governor of Madras,  being  satisfiedthat  for  the	purpose of securing public  safety  and	 themaintenance  of	 public order it war,. necessary so  to	 do,prohibited  the	 entry	into or	 the  circulation,  sale  ordistribution  in the State of Madras or any part thereof  ofthe  newspaper	entitled 'Cross Roads', an  -English  Weeklypublished at Bombay.(1) (1950) S.C.R. 594. (2) (1950) S.C.R. 605.864The  impugned  section-s. 9(1-A)-was a law enacted  for	 thepurpose of securing the public safety and the maintenance ofpublic	order.	'Public order' was said to be an  expressionof   wide   connotation	 and  to  signify  that	  state	  oftranquillity   which  prevailed	 among	the  members  of   apolitical  society  as a result of the	internal  regulationenforced  by  the  Government which  they  had	established.'Public	 safety' used in that section was taken as  part  ofthe wider concept of 'public order'.  Clause (2) of Art. 19,as it stood then, protected a law relating, inter alia, to amatter	which  undermined  the	security  of  or  tended  tooverthrow the State.  Some breach of public safety or publicorder  may conceivably undermine the security of or tend  tooverthrow  the State, but equally conceivably many  breachesof public safety or public order may not have that tendency.Therefore,  a law which imposes restrictions on the  freedomof  speech and expression for preventing a breach of  publicsafety or public order which may not undermine the  securityof the State or tend to overthrow the State cannot claim theprotection  of	cl.  (2) of Art.  19.	Section	 9(1-A)	 waschallenged  as	it  embraced  both  species  of	  activitiesreferred to above and as the section was not severable,	 thewhole section was held to be bad.In Brij Bushan's case (supra) the validity of s.  7(1)(c) ofthe East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949, as  extended to theProvince of Delhi, came. up for consideration.	That sectionprovided  that "the Provincial Government or  any  authorityauthorised  by	it in this behalf, if  satisfied  that	suchaction is necessary for preventing or combating any activityprejudicial  to	 the  public safety or	the  maintenance  ofpublic	order,	may, by order in writing  addressed  to	 theprinter,  publisher  or	 editor,  require  that	 any  matterrelating to a particular subject or class of subjects  shallbefore publication be submitted for scrutiny".	It was	heldby this Court (Fazl Ali J. dissenting) that inasmuch as	 thesection	 authorised  the imposition of restrictions  on	 thefundamental  right  to	freedom	 of  speech  and  expressionguaranteed  by Art. 19(1)(a) for the purposes of  preventingactivities prejudicial to865public safety and maintenance of public order, it was not  alaw  solely  relating  to  a  matter  which  undermined	 thesecurity  of  or tended to overthrow the  State	 within	 themeaning	 Of  Cl.  (2)  of Art. 19 as  it  then	stood.	 Theprinciples  laid down in Romesh Thappar's case were  appliedto this case and the law was held to be void.The case of Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1)has also been relied upon in support of the contention	thatwhere the language employed in the Statute is wide enough tocover  restrictions on a fundamental right both	 within	 andwithout	  the	limits	 of   constitutionally	 permissiblelegislative  action affecting the right and the	 possibilityof  its	 being applied for purposes not	 sanctioned  by	 theConstitution cannot be ruled out, the law must be held to bewholly void.After this Court decided the cases of Romesh Thappar (supra)and  Brij  Bushan  (supra),  cl.  (2)  of  Art.	 19  of	 theConstitution was amended.  Clause (2), as amended,  protectsa law in so far as such law imposes reasonable	restrictionson the exercise of the right conferred by sub-cl. (a) of cl.(1)  of	 Art. 19 "in the interests of the  security  of	 theState, friendly relations with foreign States, public order,decency	 or  morality or in relation to contempt  of  court,defamation  or incitement to an offence." The  question	 forour  consideration  is whether the impugned section  can  beproperly  said to be a law imposing reasonable	restrictionson  the	 exercise  of the fundamental right  to	 freedom  ofspeech and expression in the interests of public order.	  Itwill  be noticed that the language employed in	the  amendedclause is "in the interests of" and not "for the maintenanceof".  As one of us pointed out in Debi Soron v. The State ofBihar(2),  the	expression "in the interests of"  makes	 theambit of the protection very wide.  A law may not have	beendesigned  to directly maintain public order and yet  it	 mayhave been enacted in the interests of public order.It is pointed out that s. 295A has been included in  chapterXV  of	the  Indian Penal Code	which  deals  with  offencesrelating to religion and not in chapter VIII(1) (1950) S.C.R. 759.	   (2) A.I.R. (1954) Patna 254.866which  deals with offences against the	public	tranquillityand from this circumstance it is faintly sought to be urged,therefore,  that  offences  relating  to  religion  have  nobearing on the maintenance of public order, or	tranquillityand,  consequently,  a law creating an offence	relating  toreligion  and imposing restrictions on the right to  freedomof speech and expression cannot claim the protection of	 el.(2)  of	 Art.  19.  A reference to Arts. 25 and	 26  of	 theConstitution,  which  guarantee	 the  right  to	 freedom  ofreligion, will show that the argument is utterly  untenable.The  right to freedom of religion assured by those  Articlesis  expressly  made subject to public  order,  morality	 andhealth.	 Therefore, it cannot be predicated that freedom  ofreligion can have no bearing whatever on the maintenance  ofpublic	order or that a law creating an offence relating  toreligion cannot under any circumstances be said to have beenenacted	 in  the  interests  of	 public	 order.	  These	 twoArticles  in  terms  contemplate that  restrictions  may  beimposed on the rights guaranteed by them in the interests ofpublic order.  Learned counsel then shifted his ground and formulated hisobjection  in  a  slightly different way.   Insults  to	 thereligion or the religious beliefs of a class of citizens  ofIndia may, says learned counsel, lead to public disorders insome  cases,  but  in many cases they may not  do  so  and,,therefore, a law which imposes restrictions on the citizens'freedom of speech and expression by simply making insult  toreligion  an offence will cover both varieties	of  insults,i.e.,  those  which  may lead to public	 disorders  as	wellas.those which may not.	 The law in so far as it covers	 thefirst  variety	may  be said to have  been  enacted  in	 theinterests  of public order within the meaning of el. (2)  ofArt.  19, but in so far as it covers the  remaining  varietywill  not  fall	 within	 that  clause.	 The  argument	thenconcludes  that so long as the possibility of the law  beingapplied	 for  purposes not sanctioned  by  the	Constitutioncannot	be  ruled out, the entire law should be held  to  beunconstitutional  and void.  We are unable, in view  of	 thelanguage used in the impugned section,867to  accede to this argument.  In the first place el. (2)  ofArt.  19 protects a law imposing reasonable restrictions  onthe  exercise  of  the	right  to  freedom  of	speech	 andexpression "in the interests of" public order, which is muchwider	than  "for  maintenance	 of"  public   order.	 If,therefore,  certain  activities	 have a	 tendency  to  causepublic	disorder,  a law penalising such  activities  as  anoffence	 cannot but be held to be a law imposing  reasonablerestriction  "in the interests of public order" although  insome  cases  those  activities may not actually	 lead  to  abreach of public order.	 In the next place s. 295A does	 notpenalise any and every act of insult to or attempt to insultthe religion or the religious beliefs of a class of citizensbut  it	 penalises only those acts of insults  to  or  thosevarieties  of  attempts	 to  insult  the  religion  or	 thereligious  beliefs  of	a  class  of  citizens,	 which	 areperpetrated  with the deliberate and malicious intention  ofoutraging the religious feelings of that class.	 Insults  toreligion  offered unwittingly or carelessly or	without	 anydeli. berate or malicious intention to outrage the religiousfeelings  of that class do not come within the section.	  Itonly Punishes the aggravated form of insult to religion whenit   is	 perpetrated  with  the	 deliberate  and   maliciousintention of outraging the religious feelings of that class.The calculated tendency of this aggravated form of insult isclearly	 to disrupt the public order and the section,  whichpenalises such activities, is well within the protection  ofcl.  (2)  of  Art. 19 as being	a  law	imposing  reasonablerestrictions  on  the exercise of the right  to	 freedom  ofspeech	and expression guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(a).   Havingregard	to  the ingredients of the offence  created  by	 theimpugned  section,  there  cannot, in our  opinion,  be	 anypossibility  of	 this  law being applied  for  purposes	 notsanctioned  by	the  Constitution.   In	 other	words,	 thelanguage employed in the section is not wide enough to coverrestrictions   both  within  and  without  the	 limits	  ofconstitutionally  permissible legislative  action  affectingthe  fundamental  right	 guaranteed  by	 Art.  19(1)(s)	 andconsequently, the question of severability does not868arise  and the decisions relied upon by learned counsel	 forthe petitioner have no application to this case.For  the  reasons stated above, the impugned  section  fallswell  within the protection of el. (2) of Art. 19  and	thisapplication must, therefore, be dismissed.			  Application dismissed.