PETITIONER:PANDIT M. S. M. SHARMA	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI SRI KRISHNA SINHA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/12/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  395		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 806 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC1186	 (1,2,5,6,8) D	    1961 SC 613	 (4) R	    1962 SC  36	 (36) F	    1963 SC 996	 (11) C	    1965 SC 745	 (36,37,46,ETC.,) R	    1967 SC1639	 (8) RF	    1967 SC1643	 (22) R	    1968 SC1313	 (10) RF	    1971 SC1132	 (49) R	    1973 SC 106	 (102) RF	    1973 SC1461	 (648) R	    1982 SC 710	 (21)ACT:       State	 Legislature,	Privilege  of-Power   to   Prohibit       Publication of proceedings    including portions expunged by       the  Speaker--Publication, if a breach of  privilege-If	can       prevail over the fundamental  right to freedom of speech and       expression--Freedom   of	  the  Press  Scope   and   extent-       Constitution of India, Arts. 194(3), 19(1) (a).HEADNOTE:The  petitioner, the Editor of the English  daily  newspaperSearchlight  of Patna, was called upon by the  Secretary  ofthe  Patna  Legislative Assembly to show  cause	 before	 theCommittee  of  Privileges of the  Assembly  why	 appropriateaction	should	not be taken against him for the  breach  ofprivileges of the Speaker and the Assembly for publishing inits entirety a speech delivered in the Assembly by a  memberthereof,  portions of which were directed to be expunged  bythe  Speaker.  It was contended on behalf of the  Petitionerthat  the  said	 notice	 and  the  proposed  action  by	 theCommittee  were	 in violation of his  fundamental  right  tofreedom of speech and expression under Art. 19(1)(a) and  ofthe protection of his personal liberty under Art. 21 of	 theConstitution, and that, as an editor of a newspaper, he	 wasentitled  to all the benefits of the freedom of	 the  Press.The  respondents relied on Art. 194(3) Of  the	Constitutionand  claimed that the proceedings in the House as  those  inthe  British House of Commons were not usually meant  to  bepublished,  and	 in no circumstances was it  permissible  topublish the parts of a807speech	which were directed to be expunged  and,  therefore,formed	no part of the official report and such	 publicationwas in clear breach of the privileges of the Assembly.	 Thepoints for determination were:(1)  Could  the British House of Commons  entirely  prohibitthe publication of its proceedings or even of such  portionsof them as had been directed to be expunged ?(2)  Assuming  that  the British House of Commons  had	suchpower  and consequently the State Legislature also had	suchpower  under  Article 194(3), could the	 privileges  of	 theLegislature under that Article prevail over the	 fundamentalright guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(a)?The  Bihar  Legislature not having admittedly made  any	 lawgoverning  its powers and privileges under Entry 39 of	ListII of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, the questionnaturally  was	as to what were the powers,  privileges	 andimmunities   of	 the  British  House  of  Commons   at	 thecommencement of the Constitution.Held   (per  Das, C. J., Bhagwati, Sinha and  Wanchoo,	jj.)that  there could be no doubt that the liberty of the  Presswas  implicit  in  the	freedom	 of  speech  and  expressionguaranteed   to	 a  citizen  under  Art.  19(1)(a)  of	 theConstitution   and   that  must	 include  the	freedom	  ofpropagation of ideas ensured by the freedom of circulation.Romesh	Thappar	 v.  State of  Madras,	[1950]	S.C.R.	594,Brijbhushan  v. The- State of Delhi, [1950] S.C. R. 605	 andExpress Newspaper Ltd. v. Union of India, [1959] S.C.R.	 12,relied on.The  liberty of the Press in India flowed from this  freedomof speech and expression of a citizen and stood on no higherfooting and no privilege attached to the Press as such.Arnold	v. King Emperor, (1914) L.R. 41 I.A.  149,  referredto.A  survey  of the evolution of Parliamentary  privileges  inEngland showed beyond doubt that at the commencement of	 theIndian	Constitution, the British House of Commons  had	 thepower or privilege of prohibiting the publication of even  atrue and faithful report of the debates or proceedings	thattook place in the House, and with greater reason, the  powerand privilege of prohibiting publication of an inaccurate orgarbled version of such debates and proceedings.  These werethe  powers  and privileges that Art.  194(3)  conferred  onState Legislatures and Art. 05(3) conferred on the Houses ofParliament in India.It would not be correct to contend that Art. 19(1)(a) of theConstitution controlled the latter half of Art. 194(3) or ofArt.  105(3)  Of  the  Constitution  and  that	the  powers,privileges  and immunities conferred by them must  yield  tothe  fundamental right of the citizen under  Art.  19(1)(a).As  Arts.  194(3)  and	105(3) stood  in  the  same  supremeposition  as the provisions of Part III of the	Constitutionand  could  not	 be affected by Art. 13,  the  principle  ofharmonious construction must be adopted.808So  construed, the provisions of Art. 19(1)(a),	 which	weregeneral,  must yield to Art. 194(1) and the latter  part  ofits  cl. (3), which are special, and Art. 19(1)(a) could  beof no avail to the petitioner.Ramjilal v. Income-tax Officer, Mohindergarh, [1951]  S.C.R.a 127 and Laxamanappa Hanumantappa v. Union of India, [1955]1 S.C.R. 769, applied.Anand  Bihayi  Mishra v. Ram Sahay, A.I.R. (1952)  M.B.	 31,disapproved.Gunapati  Keshavyam  Reddy v. Nafisul Hasan,  A.I.R.  (1954)S.C.  636  explained as having proceeded  on  concession  bycounsel.Nor  could the petitioner complain of any breach, actual  orthreatened,  of his fundamental right under Art. 21  of	 theConstitution  since Art. 194(3) read with the rules,  framedby  the Bihar Legislative Assembly in exercise of its  powerunder Art. 208 of the Constitution, laid down the  procedurefor  enforcing its powers, privileges and  immunities  underthat Article and any deprivation of his personal liberty  asa  result  of  the  proceedings	 before	 the  Committee	  ofPrivileges would be in accordance with procedure establishedby law.Held,  further, that it was not for this Court to  prescribeany particular period for moving a privilege motion so as tomake  the subject matter of the motion a specific matter  ofrecent	occurrence  within the meaning of  the	said  rules.This was a matter for the speaker alone to decide.The  time  within which the Committee of privileges  was  tosubmit	its  report was a matter between the House  and	 itsCommittee and the party whose conduct was the subject-matterof investigation could have no say in the matter.The  effect in law of the order of the Speaker to expunge  aportion	 of  the  speech of a member might  be	as  if	thatportion had not been spoken and a report of the whole speechdespite the speaker's order might be regarded as a pervertedand unfaithful report and Prima facie constitute a breach ofthe  privilege of the Assembly.	 Whether there had  in	factbeen a breach of the privilege of the Assembly was, however,a matter for the Assembly alone to judge.Per Subba Rao, J.-The second part of Art. 194(3) was clearlya transitory provision and had no higher sanctity than	thatof  the	 first.	  While	 a  law	 when  made  by	 the   StateLegislature  under the first part would, by virtue  of	Art.13(2),	be void to the extent it contravened the  provisionsof  19(1)(a), unless saved by Art. 19(2), there could be  noreason	why the powers, privileges and immunities  conferredunder the second part should be free from the impact of	 thefundamental rights.As  there  was	no  inherent  inconsistency  between   Arts.19(1)(a)  and  the second part of Art. 194(3),	full  effectmust  be given to them both on the principle  of  harmoniousconstruction.  The809wide  powers and privileges enjoyed by the  Legislature	 andits  members  should, therefore, be so exercised as  not  toimpair	the fundamental rights of the citizen,	particularlyof one who was not a member of the Legislature.	 In case  ofa conflict, Art. 19(1)(a) must prevail over Art. 194(3)	 andnot vice versa and the privilege must yield to the extent itaffected the fundamental right.Gunupati  Keshavarm  Reddy v. Nafisul Hasan,  A.I.R.  (1954)S.C. 636, applied.At the commencement of the Constitution the House of Commonshad no privilege to prevent the publication of a correct andfaithful report of its proceedings, save those in respect ofsecret	sessions held under exceptional	 circumstances,	 andhad   only  a  limited	privilege  to  prevent	 mala	fidepublications of garbled, unfaithful and expunged reports  ofthe  proceedings.  In the instant case, neither the  noticesnor  the  documents enclosed therewith	disclosed  any	malafides on the part of the petitioner or that he had knowledgethat  any  portion of the speech had been  expunged  by	 theSpeaker.  Consequently, even supposing Art. 194(3) prevailedover Art. 19(1)(a), the petitioner was entitled to succeed.Wasan v. Walter, (1868) L.R. 4 Q.B. 73, relied on.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 122 of 1958.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental rights.1958,  Oct. 16, 17, 28, 29, 30.	 Basdeva Prasad	 and  NaunitLal, for the petitioner :-The main question to be consideredin  the case is as to whose privilege has been involved	 andviolated-those of the press or the House of the Legislature.Notice served on the petitioner by the Privileges  Committeeof  the	 Bihar	Assembly  is illegal  and  invalid  and	 theConstitution  of the Privileges Committee is illegal as	 theChief Minister of the State Dr. S. K. Sinha himself has beenthe Chairman of the Committee.On May 30, 1957, there was a debate in the Bihar LegislativeAssembly  when M. P. N. Singh, one of the oldest members  ofthe  Assembly,	made  a	 speech the  gist  of  which  was  acriticism of the administration of Bihar as run by Dr. S. K.Sinha,	the Chief Minister, and cited certain  instances  offavouritism.  At this stage the Speaker held that a  portionof the speech was objectionable and ordered it to be  struckoff and expunged.  It was a general statement.	No specific102810direction  was given to the Press.  The opposite  party	 wasclaiming   the	 right	to  prohibit  all   publication	  ofproceedings  a	right which the House of  Commons  possesseswith  its own history, but never exercises it.	 The  speechwas made on May 30, 1957, and the official authorised reportwas  published and made available on January 2, 1958.	'TheSearch	Light', being a daily newspaper, came out on May  31with what happened in the Assembly.  A privilege motion	 wassaid  to  have been moved and referred to the  Committee  ofPrivileges; no voting was taken and no time limit was  givenfor the presentation of the report which was required  underthe  rules  of the House.  If no time limit  was  prescribedthen under rule 215 the report was to be submitted within  amonth.It was after more than a year i.e. on August 18, 1958,	thatthe   petitioner  received  a  notice  to  show	 cause	 whyappropriate  action should not be taken against him for	 thebreach of privilege.  This showed malice on the part of	 thePrivileges Committee.The action of the Privileges Committee raised constitutionalpoints	affecting  the	petitioners  fundamental  right	  offreedom of expression.The Legislature cannot have such a privilege as will deprivethe   citizens	of  their  fundamental	rights	 which	 areguaranteed  by	the  Constitution, specially  the  right  offreedom	 of expression under Art. 19(1) (a).  In the  actualmotion	the charge was that the speech was published in	 itsentirety,  " Jyon ka Tyon " ; but the motion adopted by	 thePrivileges Committee, the charge against the Editor was thathe  published  a  perverted and	 unfaithful  report  of	 theproceeding, and the expunged portions of the speech was alsopublished in derogation of the order of the Speaker.[Wanchoo,  J.-If the publication of expunged portions  wouldmake  a	 report false, how could it be anything	 other	thanperverted and unfaithful?][Daphtary:It was unfaithful as it was not a true report,  asportions expunged had also been published].The  reference was not by the House but by the Speaker.	  Itwas  open to the petitioner to challenge the  procedure,  asone of the grounds of his objection811was  that  the	motion	was  not  put  to  vote.   Importantquestions arose as a result of the proceedings, one of	thembeing :-Can  a Committee presided over by a Chief Minister  who	 hassuch an interest in the matter as might give him a real biasbe deemed to be empowered to carry on the investigation	 andrecommend punishment ?[Daphtary:I object to the use of the word 'bias'.  It is notsupported by the petition or the plea].The allegation of mala fide is much stronger than bias.[Chief	Justice.-Art. 19(1) had granted	 fundamental  rightsagainst	 law made by the State.	 There were  no	 fundamentalrights against the Constitution itself.	 If the Constitutionprovided  that the House shall have certain privileges	thenit was clear that there cannot be a question of	 fundamentalrights	against	 the  Constitution.   If  the	Constitutionprovided  that the House shall have the privileges  that  somuch  shall  be published then Art. 19(1) will	not  prevailagainst the Constitution].I  rely	 on Amendment One of the  American  Constitution  onwhich  the  fundamental	 rights in  Art.  19(1)	 are  based.Cooley's " Constitutional Law " (P. 350).Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd. v. Union of India,  [1959]S. C. R. 12, 121.[Sinha,	 J.-In America people were more forthright in  theirviews  and opinions and that we could have  better  guidancefrom English precedents than from American.]Article	 194  (3) which dealt with  powers,  privileges	 andimmunities   of	 the  Legislatures  were  subject   to	 theprovisions  of the Constitution.  Article 194(3)  cannot  besaid   to  abridge  the	 provisions  of	 Art.  19(1)   whichguaranteed  fundamental	 rights.   Article  194(3)  of	 theConstitution provided the procedure of the British House  ofCommons	 in  regard to powers,	privileges  and	 immunities.Even then any power or privilege which militated against thefundamental  rights  cannot  be deemed	to  be	valid.	 TheLegislature can follow the procedure of the British House ofCommons, but this812privilege  of  legislature cannot go contrary  to  the	fun-damental  rights.   If	such a	privilege  is  allowed,	 theLegislature   would  assume  sovereignty  as   against	 theConstitution itself under the garb of privileges.Even  in  England,  the	 ban  on  the  publication  of	 theproceedings  in Parliament had ceased to exist	in  practiceafter the 16th century.The  proceedings of legislatures are open to the public	 andthe  citizens have a right to know whatever happens  in	 theHouse  and  also  to  know as to  how  any  portion  of	 theproceedings is ordered to be expunged.The Blitz case Gunupati Keshavram Reddy v. Nafisul Hasan, A.I. R. 1954 S. C. 636 in which the Supreme Court ordered	 therelease	 of  a correspondent who had been  arrested  by	 theSpeaker	 of the U. P. Assembly in connection with breach  ofprivilege.  He was not produced before the Magistrate and onHabeas	Corpus	petition,  he  was  released.	Article	  20prevailed and it was established that Art. 194(3) could	 notgo against Art. 20 guaranteeing a person's liberty.[Chief	 Justice.-If  the  privileges  were  given  by	 theConstitution itself, then the question of fundamental rightsdoes not come at all.  Article 19(1) is against law made  bythe  State  Government.	 Fundamental rights do	not  prevailagainst the Constitution.  The counsel could take the  standthat Bihar Legislative Assembly has not got the powers whichit  claims.  The question was whether the Assembly had	suchpowers under the Constitution].In England there was no written constitution.  The House  ofCommons had claimed the right to prohibit publication but infact and in actual practice never exercised that right.	 TheAmerican  Constitution also granted full freedom to  publishthe   proceedings  of  the  House  including  the   expungedportions.  That being so, it was for the Court to  interpretArt. 194(3) harmoniously with Art. 19(1) and the  provisionsof  the former had to be consistent with fundamental  rightsgranted	 under the Constitution.  In England the  Parliamentis  supreme and there is no written constitution,  but	herethe Constitution is supreme.  The right to expunge could  beclaimed only for the purpose of813official record.  They could not claim a total	prohibition.There  was  a  common basis for this in	 both  American	 andEnglish	 democratic systems.  The people, had the  right  toknow as to what was happening in the House to enable them toexercise  their franchise properly.  If people have a  rightto  see and hear the proceedings, other people who  are	 notable to be in the House have a right to know through  publi-shed proceedings.Wason v. Walter, (1868) L. R. IV Q. B. 73, 95.(The  counsel refers to the standing orders in	the  BritishHouse of Commons quoting May's Parliamentary Practice).Article 194(1) in its entirety was subject to the provisionsof  the Constitution and under Art. 19 to the provisions  ofthe  Constitution.  If under Art. 194(3) the application  ofthe House of Common laws provided complete immunity, then itwas  impossible to continue the consistency of	Art.  194(1)and  Art. 194(3).  Article 194(1) provided clearly  that  itwas  subject  to the provisions of the Constitution  in	 thematter of freedom of speech, etc., in the State Legislature.It  was	 impossible  to contend that  Art.  194(3)  was	 notsubject	 to the provisions of the Constitution.	 Under	Art.194(1)	it  was	 made clear that a member of  the  House  ofLegislature  did not have the same immunity as had a  memberof the House of Commons who enjoyed complete freedom and hadno restriction of whatever sort.  Here Art. 194(1) made	 thefreedom	 of speech in the House subject to the provision  ofthe Constitution.[The  Chief Justice.-It might be that one of the  immunitieswas  singled out and made subject to the provisions  of	 theConstitution].Privileges and rights of the House of Commons extended	alsoto elections.  The power of the House of Commons to fix	 itsown  elections	could not be challenged in a tribunal  or  acourt.	Here in India, elections were held under a  separateauthority  provided  by the Constitution under Ch.   XV	 andsuch  elections could be challenged and appeared against  inthe High Court, tribunals, etc.	 In England, the validity ofan election was to be determined by the House814of  Commons itself or its tribunal.  Such a privilege  couldnot be claimed by a House of Legislature here.[The  Chief  Justice.-Here  we had  powers,  privileges	 andimmunities  which  may be prescribed by law  by	 legislationunder  Art.  194(3) and it was Part XV in  the	Constitutionwhich  provided	 for  elections.   It  showed  that  powers,privileges and immunities had been separated and dealt	withseparately].The  whole scheme of the Constitution had to be	 taken	intoaccount.   The reasonable interpretation of Art. 194(3)	 wasthat,  like  Art. 194(1) it was also in	 its  entirety	madesubject to the provisions of the Constitution.The next point was that the Chief Minister could not be	 theChairman of the Committee of Privileges with  quasi-judicialpowers to summon witness and demand production of  evidence.In  this case, the Chief Minister had a certain interest  inthe  matter and this was against all principles	 of  naturaljustice:[The  Chief Justice.-Whether Counsel claimed that the  ChiefMinister  could not be at all the Chairman of the  Committeeor  that  the Chief Minister or anybody should	not  be	 theChairman or in the Committee if he had an interest].I put it on the ground of interest only.  Voting took  placein  the	 Committee and if the Chief Minister  had  not	beenthere might be a tie. (Quoted Rule 62 of the Standing Ordersof  the	 House of Commons to show that	the  Chief  Ministercould not be the Chairman of the Committee of Privileges).I will now deal with and challenge the procedural aspect  ofthe  matter.   It was the House alone which had a  right  torefer  the matter of breach of privilege.  Rule 207  of	 theAssembly clearly laid down that-the matter must be of recentoccurrence.  In the House of Commons, it was accepted that "recent occurrence " could not go beyond ten days.The  privilege motion got precedence over  even	 adjournmentmotions.  Then under r. 215, no time limit was fixed by	 theHouse for the report to be submitted, as such the report wasto be submitted within815a  month.   The	 House had not extended	 the  date  for	 thesubmission of the Report by the Privileges Committee and  inthe  absence  of  such extension, the  reference  not  beingreported,  the Committee became " functus officio ". It	 wasagainst	 this  that  the  petitioner  sought  to  move	 theHonourable Court for prohibition of the proceedings  againsthim  and  for  the vindication of  his	fundamental  rights.Either	the Committee had become " functus officio " or	 thenon-submission	of  the report within  the  stipulated	timeunder  r.  215	first  proviso	could  only  mean  that	 theCommittee had nothing to recommend.  Regarding the procedureadopted, Rules 208 and 209 had to be taken together.   Therewere objections to the motion at the time it was moved.	 Thepublication  of a true and full account could not be  termedunfaithful and perverted.  It was for the court to determinewhether there has been a breach of privilege committed.[Sinha, J.-Is it our jurisdiction?  Is it not the  exclusivefunction of the Parliament ?][The  Chief Justice.--What was a privilege and what was	 notcould be stated but whether there was a breach of  privilegeor not it was for the House to say].There  was no breach of privilege.  What we are claiming  isthat  the  reporting of proceedings is not a  privilege	 theHouse  can  claim.  Then my other point is that I  have	 notpublished the expunged portion.[Daphtary,  Solicitor-General:	It  is	for  the  House	  todecide].Am  I not entitled to come to this Court as custodian of  myfundamental  rights, that powers are claiming to punish	 andproceed against me and coerce me?  The question was  whetherone  was  not  entitled to bring a petition  under  Art.  32against it ?C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General for India,  B.  K.  P.Sinha and S. P. Varma, for the respondents.  The question tobe considered is how much of the portion which contained allthe allegations fell under Art. 32.  The Article could	dealonly  with  breach  of fundamental rights.  If	any  of	 thepowers or exercise of the816powers	and privileges and the defence and assertion of	 anyof  the	 immunities involved, were a breach  of	 fundamentalrights	or  were something contrary to	fundamental  rights,even  then  the powers and the privileges were	good.	Theycould  not be considered bad as offending those rights.	  Itwas  not open for someone to come and say that there was  nosuch power and immunity when such powers and immunities wereprovided  under	 Art.  194(1)  and  was	 made  part  of	 theConstitution.	Every  citizen had been given the  right  offreedom	 of  speech by the Constitution.  A  member  of	 theHouse of a Legislature also enjoys that freedom by virtue ofbeing a citizen.  Only rules and regulations made in  excessof legislative powers could be questioned and not the powersthemselves.  Then there was the question of amendment of theConstitution  which was not affected by fundamental  rights.The  result would be that by amendments of the	Constitutionfundamental  rights could be modified or removed.  That	 waswhat  was done by amendments in Arts. 31(a) and 31(b)  wherethe rights were modified.  Article 194 was put there in	 theConstitution  by  the  framers	simultaneously	with   otherprovisions.   It therefore had an equal footing	 with  otherprovisions  of the Constitution and unless expressly  statedin  the provision itself could not be made subject to  otherprovisions   of	  the  Constitution.   All  parts   of	 theConstitution  were made by the same people and	were  equal.One could not be made more important than the other.[Subba Rao, J.-What was the idea then in giving a  paramountposition to fundamental rights in our Constitution ?]They are fundamental to human beings.[Subba	Rao, J.-If the legislature had made a  law  definingits  powers  and privileges, could that law be valid  if  itinfringed the fundamental rights?]The  Constitution  itself said that powers,  privileges	 andimmunities would be such as the Legislature would lay  down.Even such a law would not be against the fundamental rights.It  would  be  in  exercise of	the  constituent  law.	 TheConstitution makers			    817thought it best that they would not define the powers of theLegislature  and  left	to the Legislature  to	decide	whatpowers it will have.[Subba Rao, J.-When a law was made by the Legislature it wassubject	 to  fundamental rights under Art. 19 but  when	 theLegislature  made laws relating to its powers, etc., it	 wasnot subject to Art. 19.	 Was that not an anomalous situation?]There  was  no	anomaly at  all.   The	Constitution  makersthemselves  had	 said  what powers  and	 privileges  of	 theLegislature were.  When it was so made as a law by virtue ofpowers	granted	 by the Constitution then it  could  not  besubject	 to fundamental rights.	 That what the	Constitutionitself had chosen to give was subject to fundamental  rightswas not a sound argument.[Bhagwati, J.-The fundamental rights were on a high pedestaland any other provisions should not infringe them].What  was constitutional was constitutional.   Unless  therewere provisions made expressly subject to other provision orprovisions  they  had all the same footing and were  on	 thesame plane.  Wherever the Constitution makers wanted to	 sayit,  they said so.  They were otherwise independent of	eachother,	unless	stated	to the contrary.   No  part  of	 theConstitution  could be said to be void and if one  part	 wasstruck down then it would mean that the Constitution  itselfwas  being  struck down.  Article 194 had to  be  given	 thestatus of Constitution law.The  first point was that powers, privileges and  immunitiesgiven  by Art. 194(3), were not subject to Art. 19.   Havingestablished that, the second point that would arise would bewhat  were those powers and privileges.	 What was the  ambitof those powers.In  England  there  were instances to show  that  breach  ofprivilege was treated as contempt of the House, disobedienceof the Speaker's order was contempt. (Refers to the standingorder 62 of the House of Commons).103818The argument advanced by the other side was fallacious.[Quotes from May's Parliamentary Practice].Standing  order	 62  did  not  apply  to  the  Committee  ofPrivileges.   It applied to select committees  and  standingcommittees but not to the Committee of Privileges, which wasa  sessional  committee appointed at the beginning  of	eachsession.  The House of Commons had powers to make rules fromtime  to time and regulate its own procedure.  All that	 thecourt  had  to satisfy itself about was whether or  not	 theHouse had the power to follow up a breach of privileges.[Bhagwati,  J.-Whether	power  to make rules  had  not	beenwithin	limits.	  In  an effort to  protect  immunities	 andprivileges   one  could	 not  expand  the   privileges	 andimmunities].All  the  precedents  of  the  House  of  Commons  were	 notavailable dating back to 16th or 17th Century but there	 wasenough	in  May's  Parliamentary  Practice  to	support	 theargument.   So	long  as  the  debates	were  correctly	 andfaithfully reported the right to prevent publication was notenforced.   Journalists were present in the House  galleriesby  the leave and licence of House and on sufferance.	Whatthe  Speaker said was not to be published, it could  not  bepublished.[Subba	Rao, J.-What was the purpose of expunging a  portionof the proceedings ?]The  expunged portion was not deemed to have been stated  inthe  House.  There was the case in the House of Lords  wherean  expunged  portion  was published and  became  breach  ofprivilege.    The   privilege  of  the	House	to   control-publication  was  always  there  though  it  might  not  beexercised.  The House, was always zealous of its privileges.Even here in India, House privilege had been asserted at thetime  when  Mr.	 Vithalbhai  Patel  was	 President  of	 theAssembly.  There was heated debate on the question as to  inwhom did the control of the precinct of the House vest,	 theViceroy	 or  the President of the Assembly.   Mr.  Patel  toassert the Privilege of the House asked the galleries to  becleared.   Privilege  was not ordinarily  exercised  if	 thereport was faithful and accurate.  But it was819necessary in order to ensure if the member could say  thingswithout fear of being misreported.  Otherwise his freedom ofspeech was affected.It  was the power and privilege of the House of	 Commons  todecide what was a breach or not.  The courts could go to theextent to find whether a particular privilege existed.[The  Chief Justice: If the privilege claimed was  excessivewould it not affect fundamental rights ?] It depended on thewording	 of the notice.	 In the present case the motion	 andCommittee's notice had to be read together.  It would not becorrect	 to give fundamental rights paramountcy	 over  otherparts of the Constitution.With reference to the allegations of  mala fide'.  What	 wasthe' mala fide'?  Who could deny it except the secretary  asthe  'mala fides' charge was levelled against the  Committeeof Privileges ?[Sinha, J.-Including the Chief Minister]."  Mala Fides " was alleged against the	 Committee.  [Sinha,J.-The petition says that the committee is influenced by theChairman].It  is not so.	I will confine myself to the petition  whichsays that the Committee of Privileges is proceeding  againstthe  petitioner	   mala	 fide' in order	 to  muzzle  him  andrestrict him from expressing his views.The Chief Minister was the Chairman of the Committee.  Therewas  nothing to show nor was it claimed that the  member  ofthe Committee were all his party men.  There were members ofother parties.	It was not alleged otherwise.  It could	 notalso be said that the members of the Committee were all	 hisadherents.   In the circumstances, what else could  be	doneexcept	for the Secretary to deny the allegations  of  'malafide' which was levelled against the committee appointed  bythe  Speaker and the Chief Minister was Chairman  from	longbefore the matter under consideration was taken up.[The  Chief Justice.-What about the time lag?  No  step	 wastaken for one whole year and the allegation820is  that, when some articles were published, the matter	 wastaken up].The action was taken after some time to enable the party  tocorrect itself.Sinha, J.-The point raised was that the Committee did not doanything for one year and then woke up one morning and	thenpressed the matter].How  is the matter carried any further by  these  arguments.Ultimately the House would judge and it was composed of	 316members.  Where was the question of  mala fide'?  No one  inthe  House opposed the motion.	Where was the malice of	 theCommittee, whether it issued the notice immediately or aftersome time ?[Sinha, J.-The argument of the petitioner's Counsel was thatthe  House  should have been presumed to  have	dropped	 thematter	as  the House had not done anything at all  for	 oneyear and all of a sudden the matter was taken up.  The pointmade  out  was	that but  for  the  petitioner's  subsequentaction, no notice would have been issued by the Committee].They  had issued the notice stating that there was a  breachof privilege.[Sinha, J.-Had not the Committee become 'functus officio' bylapse of time ?]No. the Committee had the power to launch the prosecution.It  did not do it immediately.	It waited for three or	fourmonths.[Sinha,	 J.-The very essence of these proceedings which	 areof  a  summary	character  is  that  the  matter  should  beexpeditiously dealt with].Is  it not a matter of internal management ? The  House	 haddecided something and it was for the Committee to take	someaction.	 The House did not rescind the decision.With  reference	 to  the  claim	 that  rules  had  not	beenfollowed: the standing Order 62 of the House of Commons	 didnot apply to the Privileges Committee which was a  sessionalcommittee.   Then there was rule 215 about the	time  limit.What  was it that the House had done?  It appointed  one  ofits committees to821inquire	 and submit its report within a period.	  The  Housecould  say  that it could extend the time  and	enlarge	 thescope of time limit.[The Chief Justice.-But as long as the rule stand.........].The  nature  of	 the  rule had to  be  gone  into.   It	 wassomething  fixed  by  the  House for  the  guidance  of	 theCommittee.   The  rules	 were made for the  benefit  of	 theHouse.	It was a matter for themselves, not for the  benefitof an outsider to seek to enforce it.On the subject of malice, if something was lawful it did notmatter how much malice there was, the motive of malice couldnot make unlawful what was otherwise lawful.Malice imputed was that the Chief Minister was the  Chairmanof the Committee.  He might not be there.  The Speaker mightappoint	 some one else.	 How can then one presume  that	 thecommittee  would  act maliciously ? There  were	 responsiblepersons holding, responsible positions.H.   N.	 Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,	 forthe  Attorney-General  for India, cited the  powers  of	 thelegislature of Nova Scotia and the position there, summed upthe  law relating to powers and privileges' Basdeva  Prasad,in  reply.   The main fact to be borne in mind is  that	 theParliament  or	the Legislature in India was not  really  assovereign  as the' British Parliament which was	 supreme  inall matters.Article 194(1) is not a repetition of Art. 19(1)(a), but areabridgement  of the freedom of expression and, speech  whichwould  have otherwise been available to' the members of	 thelegislature as ordinary citizens.Article	 194(3)	 itself does not  provide  a  constitutionalexemption to the freedom guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(a)	 andArt. 194(3) is subject to the provisions of the Constitutionin Part III and the other Art. 21.Article 194(3) does not import into the Indian	Constitutionthe powers, privileges and immunities in their entirety,  asfor  instance the right to prohibit  publication  altogethercould not be imported.822It had already been made clear that Art. 194(1) was  subjectto  the provisions of the Constitution.	 The point was	thatArt. 194(3) in its entirety was subject to the Constitution.Article 32 itself was very significant as to what rights andpowers	of  Part III were ]lore important.  Writs  could  beissued	for breach of fundamental rights or other  violationof rights, including powers of taxation.Therefore,  Art.  194 did not enlarge but  it  abridged	 thescope  of  application of Art. 19(1)(a), since it  was	alsomade subject to the rules and standing orders that might  bemade by the House.[The  Chief Justice.-Whether Parliament could not under	 theresiduary  powers  of  legislation,  make  a  law   imposingrestrictions  on  the freedom of speech of  members  of	 theState  Legislature.   It was pointed that Art. 19(1)  was  aprimary right; Art. 19(2) cut it to some extent; Art. 194(1)also  made it subject to the provisions of the	Constitutionbut  the  freedom  of speech was  further  restricted.	 TheConstitution  itself appeared to provide those	limitations.Would not then Art. 194(1) read with Art. 19(1) equally leadto an anomaly?]    Article  194(2)  flowed from Art. 194(1).  If  Art.	 194imported  powers, privileges and immunities  wholesale	fromthe  House  of Commons of Great Britain, how could  they  beexercised  ?  There  was  Art.	208.   Any  other  form	  ofrestriction arising from the exercise of those powers  wouldbe unreasonable restriction.What  Art.  194	 gave  powers,	privileges  and	 immunities.Article	 208  gave  the	 power to  punish,  subject  to	 theprovisions  of the Constitution.  It could not be said	thatthe  British House of Commons had the power to punish a	 mantwice.	 A man could not be held guilty of privilege  by  anordinary  court of law and at the same time by the House  ofCommons.  But here Art. 208 and Art. 194 came to be  subjectto  Art.  21 in that no one could be  deprived	of  personalliberty with. out a procedure of law.[The Chief Justice.-But then you have not come to the  stageof Art. 21 at all.  Your liberty has not been taken away].823My  liberty is threatened.  The notice says there  is  primafacie  case.  Then there is the allegation of mala fide	 andbias.	I  refer to the claim of the House to  be  the	BoleJudge of its privileges.  I say that the, must be subject atleast to constitutional rights.[The  Chief  Justice.-If Art. 194(3)  incorporated  all	 theprivileges, then could not that privilege itself be taken asprocedure established by law ?]Article	 21  never  contemplated  that	there  would  be  noprocedure.   Supposing	none  of them  was  followed  and  awarrant was issued, could not that be questioned in a  courtof law ?[The  Chief  Justice.-If the man is arrested then  we  shallconsider].It  would  then	 be subject to	the  jurisdiction  of  theirLordships.   Article  21 guaranteed that there would  be  nointerference with the personal liberty of the citizen exceptaccording  to a procedure enacted by law.  There must  be  asubstantive law. and such law must be valid.If your Lordships hold with me that fundamental rights	weresuperior,  then	 Art. 194 would have to be  read  with	Art.19(1)  and the American position would help.  If  the  Housewas the sole Judge then neither Art. 21 nor Art. 22 would beavailable.[The  Chief Justice.-If one could publish anything that	 wassaid  in the House there would be no meaning  in  expunging.Being expunged,, meant it was not said].Yes, but will not the House take notice?  It is the right ofthe people to know what had been said and what was expunged.Expunction  would  be for the purposes of  official  record.Even  in  Hansard, the expunged portion is not	removed	 butonly red lines put over it.[Sinha, J.-The argument advanced was that under the languageof Art. 194(2) you could not publish anything at all].Yet, if the claim of total prohibition was accepted, then  Iwould  be on velvet.  But would that position be allowed  inIndia ? The House of Commons debated824on  the	 Public, and I have a right to	publish	 what  takesplace.[Sinha, J.-You claim a total right to publish].Yes,  total  right to publish whatever takes  place  in	 theHouse.	 I will not claim I have a right to publish  garbledand unfaithful report, I have a right to publish a  faithfulreport	of  what  was said or done.   The  argument  of	 thelearned	 Solicitor-General  was	 that Art.  194(3)  was	 notsubject	 to  the  provisions of the  Constitution.   In	 theConstitution,  the power was given to the President to	makeall laws and regulations in Part D States and the  provisiondid  not  say	subject	 to  fundamental  rights  Could	 thePresident  make	 laws that would have the effect  of  takingaway fundamental rights or that it was said that citizens inPart D states aid not have any fundamental rights?  All	 theprovisions of the Constitution had to be read in relation tothe chapter on fundamental rights.In the absence of law, the power to make rules could come inconflict with fundamental rights.  Law could mean a power orauthority.[Subba	Rao,  J.- Under Art. 194(3), the  legislature  of  aState  had all the powers, privileges and immunities of	 theHouse  of  Commons.   One  of such  powers  was	 to  preventpublication  of a garbled version.  If in exercise  of	thatpower,	the  legislature  made an order	 asking	 someone  toappear at its bar, would that order come within the  meaningof law ?]"  Law	included order, regulation  or	notification."	[TheChief  Justice.-What  is the meaning of an order ?  Does  itmean an executive order ?]It  is	an  executive  order.	Order  flowing	from  publicauthority.  The definition of the State included Government,Parliament, Legislature and local authority.  It would be anorder  passed  by authority.  Article 21  would	 cover	actsunder  the enacted law.	 Here, a Committee of the House	 wasproceeding  to take action to deprive the petitioner of	 hispersonal  liberty.  What was the remedy?  What could be	 theprocedure?[The Chief Justice.-It would be argued that the Constitutionitself was law.	 It Deed not be enacted by825the Legislature.  If Art. 194 imported all the privileges ofthe  House of Commons, then no question arose at all.	Thatitself prescribed the powers and privileges].[Subba	Rao, J.-If in exercise of such a power an order	 wasmade  by  the legislature, would it not be  law	 within	 themeaning of its definition in the Constitution ?]Executive order will be included in the expression law ".[Subba	Rao,  J.-If  an order, which would be  law  as	thusdefined,  be  made, would it be valid if  it  infringed	 thefundamental rights ?][The  Chief Justice.-The State could make a law relating  tocontempt of Court.  Supposing the State did not make such  alaw, the Court could still haul up people for contempt.	 Wasnot there inherent power ?] The High Courts had the power topunish.	  But  the  question of	 punitive  punishment  wouldarise.[The  Chief Justice.-Fundamental rights were fundamental  inthe  sense  that  human	 rights	 which	were  valuable	werefundamental.  The other provisions of the Constitution couldbe equally efficacious].My  point  was that any law or action had to be	 within	 theconstitutional rights guaranteed by the Constitution.	Eventhe right to punish would have to be within the ambit of thefundamental  rights  chapter.  If anyone was  committed	 forcontempt of court which was not fully established, could  henot  seek  redress ? Justice 'Was not a	 cloistered  virtue.Could be not then claim a remedy under the ordinary law ?[Subba	Rao, J.-A law made by the Legislature in respect  ofprivileges  would be subject to fundamental rights.  If	 thelaw  was  not  made,  the privileges  were  not	 subject  tofundamental rights].[Sinha,	 J.-This will be a good reason for  the	 Legislaturenot to make law at all].Article	 194(3) bad to be interpreted as coming	 within	 thescope of fundamental rights.  The first part was  admittedlyso.  The second part was equally subject to the	 fundamentalrights by the very necessary implication.104826Privileges  did come within judicial review.  They could  gointo  the nature of privilege and on the given facts  decidetheir constitutional validity.		       Cur.  Adv.  Vult.1958.	December 12.  The Judgment of Das, C. J.,  Bhagwati,Sinha  and Wanchoo, JJ., was delivered by Das, C.  J.  SubbaRao, J., delivered a separate Judgment.DAS,  C.  J.-The petitioner before us, who is a	 citizen  ofIndia, is by profession a journalist and has at all materialtimes  been  and  is  still working as	the  editor  of	 theSearchlight., one of the well-known English daily newspapershaving a large circulation in Patna and other places in	 theState  of Bihar.  The first respondent has at  all  materialtimes  been and is the Chief Minister of the State of  Biharand the Chairman of the Committee of Privileges of the BiharLegislative Assembly.  The Committee of Privileges has	beenimpleaded  as  the  second respondent as if it	is  a  legalentity entitled to sue or to be sued in its name.  The thirdrespondent  is called and described as the Secretary to	 theBihar  Legislative Assembly as if it also is a legal  entitybut  the incumbent of that office has not been named in	 thecause title.  As no objection has been taken to the way	 thesecond	and  the third respondents have	 been  impleaded  asparties nothing further need be said about the propriety  ofsuch procedure.This  petition	under  Art. 32 of  the	Constitution  raisesseveral important questions of far reaching effect.  It cameto  be filed in the following circumstances: In	 his  speechmade  in the Bihar Legislative Assembly on May 30, 1957,  incourse of the general discussion on the Budget for the	year1957-58 Shri Maheshwar Prasad Narayan Sinha, a Congress mem-ber of that Assembly, delivered what has been described as "one  of	 the  bitterest attacks against the  way  the  ChiefMinister  was conducting the administration of the State  ".The Chief Minister, who also belongs to the Congress  party,is  the first respondent before us.  Shri  Maheshwar  PrasadNarayan Sinha827referred  to the way the Chief Minister, according  to	him,was  being guided by the advice of a gentleman who was	wellunderstood by all to be Shri Mahesh Prasad Sinha, who was anex-minister  of	 Bihar	and had been defeated  at  the	lastgeneral	  elections.	The  member  referred,	 as   commonknowledge, to the activities of Shri Mahesh Prasad Sinha  inthe selection of Ministers and the formation of the Ministryas  also  to  the  glaring  instances  of  encouragement  ofcorruption  by the Government by, amongst other things,	 thetransfer  of  a Muslim District Engineer from  Darbhanga  toMuzaffarpur  for exploiting that officer's influence on	 theMuslim voters of Muzaffarpur.  Similar reference was made tothe   case   of	  a  District  and   Sessions	Judge	who,notwithstanding the recommendation for his discharge made bythe Chief Justice after a regular judicial enquiry had	beenheld  by  a  High  Court  Judge,  was  ordered	only  to  betransferred  to	 another place on the intervention  of	ShriMahesh	Prasad	Sinha.	The member strongly  criticised	 theappointment  of Shri Mahesh Prasad Sinha as the Chairman  ofthe  Bihar  State Khadi Board as having been  made  only  toenable him to stay in Patna where residential  accommodationat Bailey Road had been procured for him.  The	distributionof  portfolios	amongst the ministers did  not	also  escapestrictures from this member.  There is no dispute-indeed  itis  admitted  in paragraph 6 of	 the  present  petition-thatimmediately  after  Shri  Maheshwar  Prasad  Narayan   Sinhareferred  to the question of appointment of the Chairman  ofthe  Khadi  Board, a point of order was	 raised	 by  anothermember	of the Assembly, Shri Satendra Narain  Agarwal,	 andthe Speaker stated as follows:-" Mahesh Babu ke Sambandh Me Jitni Baten Kahi Gain Uske BareMe Maine Kah Diya Ki Us Tarah Ki Bat Ko Proceeding Se  NikalDiya  Jayega Lekin State Khadi Board Ke Chairman Ke Bare  MeJo  Kuch Kahenge We Karyawahi Me Rahenge or Iske  Bishai  MeManniya	 Sadasya Ko Kahane Ka Hak Hai.	"  which  translatedinto English means roughly:- " I have already ruled with reference to whatever has	beensaid about Mahesh Babu that such words828would be expunged from the proceedings but that whatever maybe  said  with reference to the Chairmanship  of  the  StateKhadi  Board will remain in the proceedings and the  Hon'blemember has the right to speak on that matter.  "In  its	 issue of May 31,1957, the Searchlight	published  areport of the speech of Shri Maheshwar Prasad Narayan  Sinhawhich  is  set out in paragraph 2 of the petition  and	alsoreproduced in what has been called "annexure B " in annexureIII  to the petition.  It will suffice, for the purposes  ofour  decision of this petition, to set out the opening	partof the report which reads as follows:-BITTEREST ATTACK ON CHIEF MINISTERM.   P. Sinha's choice as Khadi Board chief condemned.Maheswar Babu's scathing criticism of Government.		 (By our Assembly Reporter)		     Patna, May 30.One  of	 the  bitterest attacks against the  way  the  ChiefMinister was conducting the administration of the State	 wasmade  in  the Bihar Assembly today by Mr.  Maheshwar  PrasadNarayan	 Singh, a Congress member who said that contrary  toall  principles of good Government, the Chief  Minister	 wasguided by the advice of a gentleman who had been defeated atthe  election and stood condemned before the bar  of  publicopinion.   He also named the gentleman by whose	 advice	 theChief Minister was allegedly running the administration.In  this  sixty-minute	speech	which  was  punctuated	withfrequent applause by Congress as well as Opposition benches,Mr. M. P. N. Singa said that corruption829could  not  be eradicated from Government unless  the  ChiefMinister  refused  to  be  influenced  by  such	 undesirableelements.He  said it was common knowledge that (luring the period  ofthe  formation	of the new ministry which took	unduly	longtime many aspirants for Ministership and Deputy Ministershipwent to a defeated Minister for pleading their case so	thatthe  defeated Minister concerned could influence  the  ChiefMinister."It  has	 not  been denied by the learned  advocate  for	 thepetitioner that the references to the gentleman who had beendefeated  at  the  election  and  was  said  to	 have  stoodcondemned and by whose advice the Chief Minister (respondent1)  was alleged to be guided, were intended to be  and	wereunderstood  by	the public to be references to	Shri  MaheshPrasad	Sinha, all reference to whom had, as  herein  beforementioned, been directed by the Speaker to be expunged	fromthe proceedings.On June 10, 1957, one Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha, a member  ofthe   Bihar  Legislative  Assembly,  gave  notice   to	 theSecretary, Bihar Legislative Assembly (respondent 3) that hewanted to raise a question of the breach of privilege of theHouse.	That notice was in the following terms		"To		       The Secretary,		       Bihar Legislative Assembly,		       Patna.				   The 10th June, 1957.Sir,     I	give  notice  that I want  to  raise  the  followingquestion involving a breach of privilege of the House, afterquestion hour today."  That	 the  Hon'ble Speaker ordered  that  all  referencesregarding  Shri Mahesh Prasad Sinha,  Ex-Industry  Minister,made in the speech of Shri Maheshwar Prasad Narain Sinha  onthe  30th May, 1957, except that of his appointment  as	 theChairman of the Khadi830Board, be expunged but in spite of this the " Searchlight ",a local daily, published the entire speech of Shri MaheshwarPrasad	Narayan	 Sinha, containing all	references  to	ShriMahesh	Prasad	Sinha  which were ordered  to  be  expunged.Hence there has been a breach of the privilege of the House.A  copy	 of the " Searchlight ", dated the 31st of  May,  isfiled herewith.		     Yours faithfully,		     Nawal Kishore Sinha, M.L.A."An  account of the proceedings that took place in the  Houseon  June 10, 1957, appears from " annexure D "	in  annexureIII to the petition.  It will appear from that account	thatafter  Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha had asked for leave to	movehis motion, the Speaker read out to the members the relevantrule  as to the procedure that has to be followed  when,  onsuch leave being asked for, an objection is or is not taken.Thereafter,  as no objection was raised in  accordance	withthat rule, the Speaker declared that the mover had  receivedthe  permission of the House to move his motion.   One	ShriKarpuri Thakur having remarked that he could express no viewwithout	 knowing  what had been printed and  what  had	beendirected not to be printed, the Speaker read out the text ofthe notice sent in by Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha set out abovewhich referred to the issue of the Searchlight in  question.As Shri Karpuri Thakur was apparently satisfied by this, theSpeaker then requested Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha to move	 hisresolution.  The account shows that Shri Nawal Kishore Sinhathen  said "Sir, I beg to move: that the matter be  referredto  the	 Privilege  Committee of the  House".  No  amendmenthaving	been moved, the Speaker, according to the report  ofthe  proceedings  set  forth in " annexure D  "	 '  put	 thequestion  to  the louse and, nobody objecting to  the  same,declared the resolution carried.It  appears that the Committee of Privileges (respondent  2)did not take up the consideration of the matter promptly andwhile the mattet was pending before the831Committee  sharp  exchanges of charges and  counter  chargestook  place  between the petitioner and the  Chief  Minister(respondent  1)	 as are evidenced by the extracts  from	 theissues of the Searchlight of May 27, 28 and 31, 1958.  Thereappears to have been a debate on June 5, 1958, for two hoursin the Bihar Legislative Assembly on the alleged failure  ofthe  State Government to protect the petitioner	 from  beingassaulted  by  goondas.	  It is said  that  these  exchangesroused	the  Committee	of  Privileges	from  slumber	intoactivity  on  August 10, 1958, when it passed  a  resolutionwhich,	according  to annexure II to the  petition,  ran  asfollows --"The question is that Shri M. S. M. Sharma, Editor and	ShriAwadhesh  Kumar	 Tiwari,  Printer and  Publisher  of  the  "Searchlight  " be called upon to show cause why	 appropriateaction be not taken against them by reason of the commissionof  a breach of privilege in respect of the Speaker  of	 theBihar  Legislative  Assembly  and  the	Assembly  itself  bypublishing   a	perverted  and	unfaithful  report  of	 theproceedings  of the Assembly relating to the speech of	ShriMaheswar  Prasad Narain Sinha, M.L.A., expunged portions  ofwhose speech were also published in derogation to the ordersof  the Speaker passed in the House on the 30th	 May,  1957,and that they be further directed to be in attendance at themeeting	 or meetings of the Committee on such date or  datesas  may be fixed by the Committee for consideration  of	 thecase against them."On August 18, 1958, the petitioner was served with a  noticedated August 14,1958, issued by respondent 3, the  Secretaryto   the  Bihar	 Legislative  Assembly,	 calling  upon	 thepetitioner  to show cause, on or before September  8,  1958,why appropriate action should not be recommended against himfor  breach of privilege of the Speaker and the Assembly  inrespect	 of the offending publication.	It is necessary,  inview of one of the points taken by the learned advocate	 forthe  petitioner,  to set out the full text  of	this  noticewhich was thus worded:-832"Government of Bihar,Legislative Assembly Secretariat.Confidential			  No. 3538-1A.FromShri Enayetur Rahman, B.A., B.L.,Secretary to the Legislative Assembly.ToShri M. S. M. Sharma,Editor, " The SearchlightSearchlight Press, Patna.			   Patna, August 13/14, 1958.Whereas	 a  question involving breach of  privilege  of	 theBihar Legislative Assembly arising out of the publication ofa  news item in the Searchlight, dated the 31st	 May,  1957,under the caption " Bitterest attack on Chief Minister", wasraised in the Assembly by Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha, M. L. A.(Patna) on the 10th June, 1957, and whereas the same, havingbeen   referred	  to  the  Committee   of   Privileges	 forexamination, investigation and report, was considered by theCommittee which has been pleased to find a prima facie	caseof breach of privilege made out against you.You are hereby directed to show cause, if any, on or  beforethe  8th September, 1958, why appropriate action should	 notbe  recommended against you for breach of privilege  of	 theSpeaker and the Assembly.  Please also take notice that	 thequestion  will come up for examination by the  Committee  onthe  8th September, 1958, at 11 am. in the Official  SittingRoom  (Ground Floor) of the Assembly Buildings,	 Patna,	 andthereafter on such day or days and at such time and833place  as the Committee may from time to time appoint.	 Youare also informed that if the matter comes to evidence,	 youcan,  if  you  so choose, adduce  evidence,  both  oral	 anddocumentary,  relevant	to  the issue,	and  you  must	comeprepared with the same on the date fixed in this behalf.Sd. Enayetur Rehman,Secretary to the Legislative Assembly."Finding	 that things had begun to move and  apprehending  anadverse	 outcome of the enquiry to be held by the  Committeeof Privileges (respondent 2), the petitioner moved the	HighCourt  at  Patna under Art. 226 for  an	 appropriate  writ;,order	or   direction	restraining  and   prohibiting	 therespondents   from  proceeding	further	 with  the   enquiryreferred to above.  It appears that on August 29, 1958,	 theArt. 226 petition came up for preliminary hearing and  afterit had been urged for a day and a half before the High Courtfor admission, the petitioner on September 1, 1958, withdrewthat  petition	allegedly  "  with  a  view  to	 avail	 thefundamental  rights  granted  to him under Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution."The  present petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution	 wasfiled  on September 5, 1958.  The petitioner  contends	thatthe said notice and the proposed action by the Committee  ofPrivileges   (respondent   2)  are  in	violation   of	 thepetitioner's  fundamental  rights to freedom of	 speech	 andexpression under Art. 19(1)(a) and to the protection of	 hispersonal liberty under Art. 21 and the petitioner claims  bythis petition to enforce those fundamental rights.An affidavit in opposition affirmed by Shri Enayatur Rahman,the  present  incumbent of the office of respondent  3,	 hasbeen  filed  on	 behalf of the	respondents  wherein  it  ismaintained  that  the  report  contained  in  the  offendingpublication was not in accordance with the authorised reportof  the proceedings in the House in that it  contained	eventhose  remarks which, having been, by order of the  Speaker,directed   to  be  expunged,  did  not	form  part  of	 theproceedings.105834It  is	claimed that generally speaking proceedings  in	 theHouse are not in the ordinary course of business meant to bepublished  at  all  and that under no  circumstances  is  itpermissible to publish the parts of speeches which had	beendirected to be expunged and consequently were not  containedin  the official report.  Such Publication is said to  be  aclear  breach of the privilege of the Legislative  Assembly,which is entitled to protect itself by calling the  offenderto book and, if necessary, by meting out suitable punishmentto  him.   This claim is sought to be founded  on  the	pro-visions	 of cl. (3) of Art. 194 which confers on it all	 thepowers,	 privileges and immunities enjoyed by the  House  ofCommons of the British Parliament at the commencement of ourConstitution.Learned	 advocate  for	the  petitioner	 relies	 upon	Art.19(1)(A)  and contends that the petitioner, as a citizen  ofIndia, has the right to freedom of speech and expression andthat, as an editor of a newspaper, he is entitled to all thebenefits  of  freedom  of  the	Press.	 It  is,  therefore,necessary  to examine the ambit and scope of liberty of	 thePress generally and under our Constitution in particular.In  England freedom of speech and liberty of the Press	havebeen secured after a very bitter struggle between the publicand  the Crown.	 A short but lucid account of that  strugglewill  be  found narrated in the	 Constitutional	 History  ofEngland	 by Sir Thomas Erskine May (Lord Farnborough),	Vol.11, ch.	 IX under the heading " Liberty of Opinion ". In thebeginning the Church is said to have persecuted the  freedomof  thought in religion and then the State suppressed it  inpolitics.   Matters  assumed  importance  when	the  art  ofprinting came to be developed.	The Press was subjected to arigorous censorship.  Nothing could be published without theimprimatur of the licenser and the publication of unlicensedworks  was  visited  with  severe  punishments.	  "Politicaldiscussion  was silenced by the licenser, the Star  Chamber,the dungeon, the pillory, mutilation and branding." Even  inthe  reign of Queen Elizabeth printing was interdicted	savein  London,  Oxford  and Cambridge. "  Nothing	marked	moredeeply the tyrannical spirit835of  the first two Stuarts than their barbarous	persecutionsof authors, printers and the importers of prohibited  books:nothing	 illustrated more signally the love of freedom	thanthe   heroic   courage	and  constancy	with   which   thosepersecutions  were  borne " (1).  There was  no	 mention  offreedom of speech or of liberty of the Press in the Petitionof  Rights  of 1628.  The fall of the Star  Chamber  auguredwell for the liberty of the Press, but the respite was shortlived,	for the Restoration brought renewed trials upon	 thePress.	The Licensing Act (13 & 14 Chs. 11 c. 33) placed theentire	control of the Press in the Government.	 Liberty  ofthe  Press  was	 interdicted  and even	news  could  not  bepublished  without  licence.  Then came	 the  Revolution  of1688;  but even in the Bill of Rights of 1688 there  was  nomention of freedom of speech or of liberty of the Press.  In1695,  however, the Commons refused to renew  the  LicensingAct  and  the lapse of that Act marked the  triumph  of	 thePress,	for  thenceforth  the  theory  of  free	 Press	 wasrecognised  and	 every writing could  be  freely  published,although at the peril of the rigorous application of the lawof   libel.    William	Blackstone  in	his  4th   Book	  ofCommentaries published in 1769 wrote at p. 145:-" The liberty of the Press is indeed essential to the natureof  a  free State; but this consists in laying	no  previousrestraints upon publication, and not in freedom from censurefor  criminal matter when published.  Every free man has  anundoubted right to lay what sentiments he pleases before thepublic;	 to  forbid this, is to destroy the freedom  of	 thePress; but if he publishes what is improper, mischievous  orillegal, he must take the consequences of his own temerity."Halam in his Constitutional History of England expresses thesame  view  by	saying that liberty of	the  Press  consistsmerely	in exemption from the licenser.	 To the same  effectare  the observations of Lord Mansfield, C. J., in  King  v.Dean of St. Asaph (2).	The liberty of the Press, therefore,primarily consists in (1) May's  Constitutional History of England, Vol.  ii	 PP.240-41.(2)  (1784) 3 Tr. 428.836printing  without  any	previous  license  subject  to	 theconsequences   of  law.	  It  is,  in  substance,   a	mereapplication  of	 the general principle of the rule  of	law,namely,	 that  no man is punishable except  for	 a  distinctbreach	of  the	 law (1).  It was thus, as  a  result  of  astrenuous  struggle,  that the British people have  at	longlast secured for themselves the greatest of their liberties-the liberty of opinion.In  the	 United	 States of America  freedom  of	 speech	 andliberty	 of the Press have been separately and	specificallysafeguarded  in the Constitutions of most of  the  differentStates.	 Portions of the Constitutions of the 48  federatingStates,	 relevant  for our purpose, have been  collected  inCooley's  Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 11, ch.  12,	 pp.876-880.   Fifteen States, only, namely,  Alabama,  Arizona,Colorado,   Idaho,  Illinois,  Indiana,	 Kansas,   Missouri,Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Wash-ington	and Wyoming do not specifically refer to liberty  ofthe Press but content themselves by providing for freedom ofspeech.	  The  Constitutions of the rest of  the  federatingStates	separately and 'Specifically mention liberty of	 thePress in addition to freedom of speech.	 The first Amendmentof the federal Constitution of the United States, which	 wasratified  in  1791, provides that " Congress shall  make  nolaw...........	abridging  the freedom of speech or  of	 thePress  ".  The	Fifth and  the	Fourteenth  Amendments	alsoprotect	 people	 from  being deprived of  life,	 liberty  orproperty without due process of law.Prior  the advent of our present Constitution, there was  noconstitutional	or statutory enunciation of the	 freedom  ofspeech of the subjects or the liberty of the Press.  Even inthe famous Proclamation of Queen Victoria made in 1858 afterthe British power was firmly established in India, there wasno reference to the freedom of speech or the liberty of	 thePress, although it was announced that " none be in any	wisefavoured,  none	 molested or disquieted by reason  of  theirReligious  Faith  or Observances; but that all	shall  alikeenjoy the equal and impartial protection (1) Dicey's Law of the Constitution, 9th Edn., p. 247.837of  the law;........... Indeed during the British period  ofour  history  the  Press as such had no	 higher	 or  'betterrights	than  the  individual citizen.	In  Arnold  v.	KingEmperor (1) which was a case of an appeal by the editor of anewspaper against his conviction for criminal libel under s.499  of the Indian Penal Code, Lord Shaw of  Dunfermline  indelivering  the	 judgment  of the  Privy  Council  made	 thefollowing observations at p. 169:-" Their Lordships regret to find that there appeared on	 theone  side in this case the time-worn fallacy that some	kindof  privilege  attaches to the profession of  the  Press  asdistinguished  from the members of the public.	The  freedomof the journalist is an ordinary part of the freedom of	 thesubject, and to whatever lengths the subject in general	 maygo, so also may the journalist, but, apart from statute law,his   privilege	  is   no  other   and	 no   higher.	 Theresponsibilities   which   attach  to  his  power   in	 thedissemination  of printed matter may, and in the case  of  aconscientious journalist do, make him more careful; but	 therange of his assertions, his criticisms, or his comments, isas wide as, and no wider than, that of any other subject, Noprivilege attaches to his position."Then  came  our	 Constitution  on  January  26,	 1950.	 Therelevant portions of Art. 19, as it now stands and which  isrelied on, are as follows:-" 19 (1) All citizens shall have the right (a) to freedom of speech and expression; ........................................................ ........................................................(2) Nothing in sub-clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect theoperation  of  any existing law, or prevent the	 State	frommaking	any  law, in so far as such law	 imposes  reasonablerestrictions  on the exercise of the right conferred by	 thesaid  sub-clause  in the interests of the  security  of	 theState, friendly relations with foreign States, public order,decency	 or morality, or in relation to contempt  of  court,defamation or incitement to an offence."(1)  (1914) L.R. 41 I.A. 149.838It  will  be  noticed that this Article	 guarantees  to	 allcitizens  freedom  of  speech and expression  but  does	 notspecifically or separately provide for liberty of the Press.It has, however, been held that the liberty of the Press  isimplicit  in the freedom of speech and expression  which  isconferred on a citizen.	 Thus, in Romesh Thappar v. State ofMadras	(1) this Court has held that freedom of	 speech	 andexpression includes the freedom of propagation of ideas	 andthat  freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation.	  InBrijbhushan v. The State of Delhi (2) it has been laid	downby  this  Court that the imposition of pre-censorship  on  ajournal	 is a restriction on the liberty of the Press  whichis  an essential part of the right to freedom of speech	 andexpression  declared by Art. 19(1)(a).	To the	like  effectare the observations of Bhagwati, J., who, in delivering theunanimous judgment of this Court in Express Newspapers	Ltd.v. Union of India(1) said at page 118 that freedom of speechand expression includes within its scope the freedom of	 thePress.	Two things should be noticed.  A non-citizen runninga  newspaper  is not entitled to the  fundamental  right  tofreedom	 of  speech and expression  and,  therefore,  cannotclaim, as his fundamental right, the benefit of the  libertyof the Press.  Further, being only a right flowing from	 thefreedom	 of speech and expression, the liberty of the  Pressin  India  stands on no higher footing than the	 freedom  ofspeech	and  expression of a citizen and that  no  privilegeattaches  to the Press as such, that is to say, as  distinctfrom  the  freedom  of the citizen.  In	 short,	 as  regardscitizens   running  a  newspaper  the  position	 under	 ourConstitution  is  the  same  as it  was	 when  the  JudicialCommittee decided the case of Arnold v. The King Emperor (4)and as regards non-citizens the position may even be worse.The  petitioner claims that as a citizen and an editor of  anewspaper he has the absolute right, subject, of course,  toany  law  that may be protected by el. (2) of  Art.  19,  topublish a true and faithful report of the publicly heard andseen proceedings of Parliament or(1)  [1950] S.C.R. 594.(3)  [1959] S.C.R. 12.(2)  [1950] S.C.R. 605.(4)  (1914) S.C.R. 41 I.A. 149.839any   State  Legislature  including  portions  of   speechesdirected to be expunged along with a note that that  portionhad been directed to be so expunged.  The respondents beforeus  do not contend that the petitioner's freedom  of  speechand  expression is confined only to the publication  of	 hisown sentiments, feelings, opinions, ideas and views but doesnot  extend  to	 the publication of news or  of	 reports  ofproceedings  or	 of  views  of	others	or  that  such	lastmentioned publications are not covered by the interpretationput  upon the provisions of Art. 19(1)(a) by this  Court  inthe  three decisions referred to above or that the  case  ofSrinivasa  v.  The State, of Madras  (1),  which  apparentlysupports  the  petitioner,  was wrongly	 decided.   For	 thepurposes  of  this case, therefore, we are relieved  of	 thenecessity  for	examining the larger questions and  have  toproceed	 on  the  footing that the  freedom  of	 speech	 andexpression  conferred  on  citizens includes  the  right  topublish	 news and reports of proceedings in public  meetingsor  in Parliament or State Legislatures.   The	respondents,however,  deny	that the petitioner has the  absolute  rightbroadly formulated as here in before mentioned.	 They  urge,inter alia, that under Art. 194(3) Parliament and the  StateLegislatures  have  the powers,	 privileges  and  immunitiesenjoyed	 by the House of Commons of British  Parliament	 andthose  powers,	privileges and immunities prevail  over	 thefreedom of speech and expression conferred on citizens underArt. 19(1)(a).Besides	 a  few	 minor miscellaneous points  raised  by	 thelearned	 advocate  for the petitioner, which will  be  dealtwith  in  due course, two principal points  arising  on	 thepleadings  have	 been  canvassed  before  us  and  they	 areformulated thus:-I.   Has the House of the Legislature in India the privilegeunder  Art. 194(3) of the Constitution to prohibit  entirelythe  publication of the publicly seen and heard	 proceedingsthat  took  place  in  the House or  even  to  prohibit	 thepublication  of that part of the proceedings which had	beendirected to be expunged ?II.  Does the privilege of the House under Art.(1)  A.I.R. (1951) Mad. 70.840194(3) prevail over the fundamental right of the  petitionerunder Art. 19(1)(a) ?Re I: Article 194, on which depends our decision not only onthis point but also on the next one, may now be set out:- "194.	(1) Subject to the provisions of  this	Constitutionand  to	 the  rules  and  standing  orders  regulating	 theprocedure  of  the Legislature, there shall  be	 freedom  ofspeech in the Legislature of every State.(2)  No member of the Legislature of a State shall be liableto any proceedings in any court in respect of anything	saidor any vote given by him in the Legislature or any committeethereof, and no person shall be so liable in respect of	 thepublication  by or under the authority of a House of such  aLegislature of any report, paper, votes or proceedings.(3)  In	  other	  respects,  the  powers,   privileges	 andimmunities of a House of the Legislature of a State, and  ofthe   members  and  the	 committees  of	 a  House  of	suchLegislature,  shall  be	 such as may from time	to  time  bedefined	 by the Legislature by law, and, until	so  defined,shall be those of the House of Commons of the Parliament  ofthe  United Kingdom, and of its members and  committees,  atthe commencement of this Constitution.(4)  The provisions of clauses (1), (2) and (3) shall  applyin  relation to persons who by virtue of  this	Constitutionhave  the right to speak in, and otherwise to take  part  inthe proceedings of, a House of the Legislature of a State orany  committee thereof as they apply in relation to  membersof  that  Legislature." This Article, which applies  to	 theState  Legislatures and the members and committees  thereof,is  a  reproduction,  mutatis mutandis, of  Art.  105  whichapplies	 to  both Houses of Parliament and the	members	 andcommittees   thereof.	It  is	common	ground	 that	the.Legislature of the State of Bihar has not made any law	withrespect	 to  the powers, privileges and	 immunities  of	 theHouse  of the Legislature as enumerated in entry 39 of	ListII  of	the  Seventh Schedule to the  Constitution  just  asParliament  has	 made  no law with respect  to	the  mattersenumerated in entry 74 of List841I of that Schedule.  Therefore under the latter part of	 cl.(3)  of Art. 194 the Legislative Assembly of Bihar  has	 allthe  powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed by the  Houseof  Commons at the commencement of our Constitution.   What,then,  were  the powers, privileges and	 immunities  of	 theHouse of Commons which are relevant for the purposes of	 thepresent petition ?Parliamentary  privilege  is  defined as " the	sum  of	 thepeculiar  rights  enjoyed by each House	 collectively  as  aconstituent  part  of the High Court of Parliament,  and  bymembers of each House individually, without which they couldnot  discharge	their  functions,  and	which  exceed  thosepossessed  by other bodies or individuals " (1).   Accordingto  the same author " privilege, though part of the  law  ofthe  land,  is	to a certain extent an	exemption  from	 theordinary  law  ". The privileges of Parliament	are  of	 twokinds, namely, (i) those which are common to both Houses and(ii)  those which are peculiar either to the House of  Lordsor  to	the  House of Commons (2 ). The	 privileges  of	 theCommons, as distinct from the Lords, have been defined as  "the  sum of the fundamental rights of the House and  of	 itsindividual members as against the prerogatives	  of	 theCrown, the authority of the ordinary courts of	  law	 andthe special rights of the House of Lords (3).	  LearnedSolicitor General appearing for the respondents claims	thatthe Legislative Assembly, like the House of Commons, has thepower  and privilege, if it so desires, to prohibit  totallythe  publication of any debate or proceedings that may	takeplace  in  the	House  and  at	any  rate  to  prohibit	 thepublication  of	 inaccurate or garbled versions of  it.	  Inother words, it is claimed that the House of Commons has thepower  and  privilege  to prohibit the	publication  in	 anynewspaper  of  even  a	true  and  faithful  report  of	 itsproceedings and certainly the publication of any(1)  Sir  Thomas Erskine May's Parliamentary Practice,	16thEdn., Ch. III, P. 42.(2)  Halsbury's	 Laws  of England, 2nd Edn., Vol.  24,	Art.698, P. 346.(3)  Redlich  and  Ilbert  on  Procedure  of  the  House  ofCommons,Vol. 1, P. 46.106842portion	 of speeches or proceedings directed to be  expungedfrom the official record.As  pointed out in May's Parliamentary Practice, 16th  Edn.,p. 151, in the early days of British History the maintenanceof  its privileges was of vital importance to the  House  ofCommons.   They were necessary to preserve its	independenceof  the	 King  and  the	 Lords	and,  indeed,  to  its	veryexistence.  The privileges of the House of Commons have beengrouped	 under two heads, namely, (1) those demanded of	 theCrown  by  the	Speaker	 of the	 House	of  Commons  at	 thecommencement  of each Parliament and granted as a matter  ofcourse and (2) those not so demanded by the Speaker.   Underthe  first heading come (a) freedom from arrest (claimed  in1554),	(b)  freedom of speech (claimed in  1541),  (c)	 theright  of access to the Crown (claimed in 1536) and (d)	 theright of having the most favourable construction placed uponits proceedings. The second head comprises (i) the right  tothe  due composition of its own body, (ii) regulate its	 ownproceedings,  (iii) the right strangers, (iv) the  right  toprohibit  publication  of its debates and (v) the  right  toenforce observation of its privileges by fine,	imprisonmentand  expulsion	(1).  Admonition and  reprimand	 are  milderforms of punishment.  The privileges of the House of Commonsunder  the  first head are claimed at  the  commencement  ofevery	Parliament  by	the  Speaker  addressing  the	LordChancellor on behalf of the Commons.  They are claimed as  "ancient	 and undoubted " and are, through the  Chancellor  "most readily granted and confirmed by the Crown (2).  Of thethree  things thus claimed, two, namely, the freedom of	 theperson	and the freedom of speech and certain  consequentialrights	like the right to exclude strangers from  the  Houseand the control or prohibition of publication of the debatesand proceedings are common to both Houses (3).(1)  Ridge's  Constitutional  Law,  8th Edn.,  p.  61;	alsoHalsbury'sLaws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 24, P. 351.(2)  Anson's Law and Custom of the Constitution, Vol. 1, Ch.4,p. 162.(3)  Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 24, p. 346.843For a deliberative body like the House of Lords or the HouseCommons,  freedom of speech is of the utmost importance.   Afull  and  free debate is of the  essence  of  Parliamentarydemocracy.   Although  freedom	of speech  was	claimed	 andgranted	 at  the commencement of every	Parliament,  it	 washardly any protection against the autocratic Kings, for	 thesubstance  of  the  debates  could  be	and  was  frequentlyreported  to  the King and his ministers which	exposed	 themembers	 to  the  royal	 wrath.	  Secrecy  of  Parliamentarydebates	 was, therefore, considered necessary not  only	 forthe due discharge of the responsibilities of the members butalso  for their personal safety.  " The original motive	 forsecrecy of debate was the anxiety of the members to  protectthemselves against the action of the. sovereign, but it	 wassoon  found  equally  convenient as a  veil  to	 hide  theirproceedings  from their constituencies " (1).	This  objectcould  be achieved in two ways, namely, (a)  by	 prohibitingthe publication of any report of the debates and proceedingsand  (b) by excluding strangers from the House	and  holdingdebates within closed doors.  These two powers or privilegeshave  been adopted to ensure the secrecy of debates to	givefull  play to the members' freedom of speech and  therefore,really flow, as necessary corollaries, from that freedom  ofspeech	which  is  expressly  claimed  and  granted  at	 thecommencement of every Parliament.As to (a): " The history of Parliamentary privilege is to  agreat extent a story of the fierce and prolonged struggle ofthe Commons to win the rights and freedoms which they  enjoyto-day	" (2).	The right to control and, if  necessary,  toprohibit the publication of the debates and proceedings	 hasbeen  claimed,	asserted  and exercised by  both  Houses  ofParliament  from very old days.	 In 1628 and again  in	1640the clerk was forbidden to make notes of " particular  men'sspeeches " or to " suffer copies to go forth of(1)  Taswell-Langmead's	 Constitutional History, 10th  Edn.,p. 657.(2)  Encyclopaedia  of	Parliament  by	Norman	Widling	 andLaundy,p. 451.844any  arguments or speech whatsoever The House of Commons  ofthe  Long Parliament in 1641 framed a standing order "	thatno  member  shall  either give a copy or  publish  in  printanything  that he shall speak in the House " and " that	 allthe members of the House are enjoined to deliver out no copyor notes of anything that is brought into the House, or thatis propounded or agitated in this House ". In that  criticalperiod	it  was a necessary precaution.	 So strict  was	 theHouse about this privilege that for printing a collection ofhis  own  speeches without such leave, Sir  E.	Derring	 wasexpelled from the House and imprisoned in the Tower and	 hisbook  was ordered to be burnt by the common  hangman.	Thisstanding  order	 has not up to this date been  abrogated  orrepealed.   In	1680 to prevent inaccurate accounts  of	 thebusiness  done,	 the  Commons directed	their  "  votes	 andproceedings,  without  any reference to the debates,  to  beprinted	 under	the  direction of the  Speaker.	  After	 theRevolution of 1688 frequent resolutions were passed by	bothHouses	 of  Parliament	 from  1694  to	 1698  to   restrainnewsletter  writers from " intermeddling with their  debatesor other proceedings " or " giving any account of minute  ofthe  debates ". But such was the craving of the	 people	 forpolitical  news that notwithstanding these  resolutions	 andthe punishment of offenders imperfect reports went on  beingpublished  in  newspapers or journals.	Amongst	 the  paperswere Boyer's " Political State of Great Britain ", "  LondonMagazine ", and " Gentleman's Magazine " in which reports ofdebates were published under such titles as " Proceedings ofa  Political  Club " and " Debates in the  Senate  of  MagnaLilliputia  ".	In  1722 the House  of	Commons	 passed	 thefollowing resolutions:"  Resolved,  That  no	News Writers  do  presume  in  theirLetters, or other Papers, that they disperse as Minutes,  orunder  any  other  Denomination,  to  intermeddle  with	 theDebates, or any other Proceedings, of this House.Resolved,  That no Printer or Publisher of any printed	NewsPapers, do presume to insert in any such(1)  Hatsell  265  quoted in May's  Parliamentary  Practice,16th Edn.,p. 55.		 845Papers any Debates, or any other Proceedings of this  House,or any Committee thereof" (1).In 1738 the publication of its proceedings was characterisedin  another resolution of the House of Commons as "  a	highindignity   and	  a  notorious	breach	of   privilege	 Thepublication  of debates in the " Middlesex Journal"  broughtdown  the wrath of the House of Commons on the printers	 whowere  ordered to attend the House.  The printers not  havingbeen  found  warrants were issued for their arrest  and	 oneprinter was arrested and brought before Alderman John Wilkeswho  immediately discharged him on the ground that no  crimehad  been  committed.	Another	 printer  was  arrested	 andbrought	 before another Alderman who,  likewise,  dischargedthe  prisoner  inasmuch	 as he was  not	 accused  of  havingcommitted  any	crime.	 By way of  reprisal  the  House  ofCommons	 imprisoned the Lord Mayor and an Alderman, both  ofwhom  were  the members of the House.  Both  men,  on  theirrelease,  were honoured in a triumphal procession  from	 theTower of London to the Mansion House.  After this  politicalcontroversy, debates in both Houses continued to be reportedwith  impunity,	 although technically such reporting  was  abreach	of  privilege.	 Accurate  reporting  was,  however,hampered  by  many difficulties, for the  reporters  had  noaccommodation  in the House and were frequently	 obliged  towait  for long periods in the halls or on the stairways	 andwere  not permitted to take notes.  The result was that	 thereports	 published in the papers were full of  mistakes	 andmisrepresentations.    After  the  House  of   Commons	 wasdestroyed  by fire in 1834, galleries in temporary  quarterswere  provided for the convenience of reporters, and in	 thenew House of Commons a separate gallery was provided for thePress.	In 1836 the Commons provided for the publication  ofparliamentary papers and reports, which led to the  conflictbetween	 the  House  of Commons and the	 courts,  which	 wasdecided	 in  Stockdale	v. Hansard  (2),  where	 Lord  ChiefJustice Denman held that(1)  20	 journals of the House of Commons, p. 99; quoted  inFrank Thayer's Legal Control of the Press, pp. 28-29.(2)  Moody  and	 Robson,  9. 174 Eng.  Rep.  196;  also	 see(1839) 9 A. & E. Reports, Eng.	Q.B. 1; 112 Eng.  Rep. 1112.846the  fact  of the House of Commons having  directed  Messrs.Hansard	 to publish all their parliamentary reports  was  nojustification	for  their  or	for  any  other	  booksellerpublishing  a  parliamentary  report,  containing  a   libelagainst	 any  man.   Subsequently the  House  retaliated  bycommitting Stockdale and his attorney and - also the sheriffto  prison.  The deadlock thus brought about was  at  lengthremoved by the passing of the Parliamentary Papers Act, 1840(3 and 4 Vic. c. 9).Learned advocate for the petitioner has drawn our  attentionto  the judgment of Cockburn, C. J., in the celebrated	caseof  Wason  v. Walter (1).  The plaintiff in  that  case	 hadpresented  a petition to the House of Lords charging a	highjudicial  officer  with	 having, 30  years  before,  made  astatement false to his own know. ledge, in order to  deceivea committee of the House of Commons and praying enquiry	 andthe removal of the officer if the charge was found true.   Adebate	ensued on the presentation of the petition  and	 thecharge was utterly refuted.  Allegations disparaging to	 thecharacter of the plaintiff had been spoken in the course  ofthe  debate.  A faithful report of the debate was  publishedin  the	 Times	and  the  plaintiff  proceeded	against	 thedefendant, who was a proprietor of the Times, for libel.  Itwas  held  that	 the debate was a subject  of  great  publicconcern	 on  which a writer in a public newspaper  had	fullright  to comment, and the occasion was, therefore,  so	 farprivileged that the comments would not be actionable so longas  a  jury  should think them honest and  made	 in  a	fairspirit,	 and such as were justified by the circumstances  asdisclosed  in  an accurate report of  the  debate.   Learnedadvocate  for  the petitioner contends	that  this  decisionestablishes  that  the Press had the absolute  privilege  ofpublishing  a report of the proceedings that take  place  inParliament, just as it is entitled to publish a faithful andcorrect report of the proceedings of the courts of  justice,though the character of individuals may incidentally  sufferand  that  the	publication  of	 such  accurate	 reports  isprivileged   and   entails  neither   criminal	 nor   civilresponsibility.	 This argument overlooks(1)  (1868) L.R. IV Q.B. 73.847that the question raised and actually decided in that  case,as formulated by Cockburn, C. J., himself at p.	  82,	 wassimply this:-" The main question for our decision is, whether a  faithfulreport in a public newspaper of a debate in either House  ofParliament, containing matter disparaging to: the  characterof an individual, as having been spoken in the course of thedebate,	 is  actionable	 at  the suit  of  the	party  whosecharacter has thus been called in question."The  issue  was between the publisher and the  person  whosecharacter had been attacked.  The question of the privilege,as between the House and the newspaper, was not in issue  atall.   In  the next place, the observations relied  upon  asbearing on the question of privilege of Parliament were	 notat all necessary for deciding that case and, as Frank Thayerpoints	out  at	 p. 32 of his Legal Control  of	 the  Press,',this part of the opinion is purely dictum ". In the  thirdplace,	the  following	observations of	 the  learned  ChiefJustice clearly indicate that, as between the House and	 thePress, the privilege does exist:-"It only remains to advert to an argument urged against	 thelegality  of the publication of	 parliamentary	proceedings,namely,	 that  such  publication  is  illegal  as  being  incontravention  of  the	standing orders of  both  houses  ofparliament.   The  fact, no doubt, is, that  each  house  ofparliament  does,  by  its  standing  orders,  prohibit	 thepublication of its debates.  But, practically each house notonly  permits,	but  also  sanctions  and  encourages,	 thepublication  of	 its proceedings, and actually	gives  everyfacility  to  those  who report	 them.	 Individual  memberscorrect	 their	speeches for publication in Hansard  or	 thepublic	journals,  and	in every debate	 reports  of  formerspeeches  contained  therein  are  constantly  referred	 to.Collectively,  as well as individually, the members of	bothhouses would deplore as a national misfortune the  withhold-ing  their debates from the country at	large.	 Practicallyspeaking, therefore, it is idle to say that the	 publicationof  parliamentary proceedings is prohibited  by	 parliament.The standing orders which prohibit848it  are obviously maintained only to give to each house	 thecontrol	 over  the publication of its proceedings,  and	 thepower of preventing or correcting any abuse of the  facilityafforded.  Independently of the orders of the houses,  thereis  nothing unlawful in publishing reports of  parliamentaryproceedings. -Practically, such publication is sanctioned byparliament;   it  is  essential	 to  the  working   of	 ourparliamentary system, and to the welfare of the nation.	 Anyargument  founded on its alleged illegality appears  to	 us,therefore,  entirely  to  fail.	  Should  either  house	  ofparliament  ever  be so ill-advised as to prevent  its	pro-ceedings  from	being  made  known  to	the  country   whichcertainly  never  will be the case-any	publication  of	 itsdebates	 made  in  contravention of its orders	would  be  amatter	between,  the  house and  the  publisher.   For	 thepresent purpose, we must treat such publication as in  everyrespect lawful, and hold that, while honestly and faithfullycarried	 on, those who publish them will be free from  legalresponsibility,	 though	 the character	of  individuals	 Mayincidentally be injuriously affected."With  the  facilities  now accorded to	the  reporters,	 thepractice of reporting has improved, and the House,  sensibleof  the	 advantage which it derives from a  full  and  clearaccount of its debates, has even encouraged the	 publicationof reports of debates and proceedings that take place in theHouse.	 From this it does not at all follow that the  Househas given up this valuable privilege.  The following passagein  Anson's Law and Custom of the Constitution at p. 174  issignificant and correctly states the position :-"  We  are  accustomed, therefore,  to	be  daily  informed,throughout  the	 Parliamentary Session, of every  detail  ofevents in the House of Commons; and so we are apt to  forgettwo things.The first is, that these reports are made on sufferance, forthe House can at any moment exclude strangers and clear	 thereporter's  gallery  ; and that they are also  published  onsufferance,  for  the  House may at any	 time  resolve	thatpublication  is	 a  breach of privilege	 and  deal  with  itaccordingly.849The  second  is,  that though the privileges  of  the  Houseconfer	a right to privacy of debate. they do not  confer  acorresponding right to the publication of debate."Frank  Thayer  at pp. 31-32 expresses the same view  in	 thefollowing terms:-"  Parliamentary privilege as part of the unwritten  EnglishConstitution  is  the  exclusive right of  either  House  todecide	what constitutes interference with its	duties,	 itsdignity,  and  its  independence.   Its	 power	to   excludestrangers so as to secure privacy of debate closely  followsthe  right  of	Parliament to  prevent	the  publication  ofdebates.   Attendance  at  Parliamentary  debates  and	 thepublication  of debates are by sufferance only, although  itis  now	 recognized  that dissemination	 of  information  ondebates	 and  Parliamentary proceedings is  advantageous  toEnglish democracy and, in fact, necessary to public  safety.By judicial dictum it has been stated that there is a  rightto  publish  fair  and	accurate  reports  of  Parliamentarydebates,   but	 actually  the	traditional   privilege	  ofParliament  continues  in conflict  with  judicial  opinion.There  is still a standing order forbidding the	 publicationof  Parliamentary debates, an order that by custom  and	 theright of sufferance has become practically obsolete; yet thethreat	of such an order and the possibility of	 a  contemptcitation   for	 its  abuse,  should  Parliament   deem	  itadvantageous  to withhold some particular discussion,  serveas a check upon careless reporting and distorted comment."May  in his Parliamentary Practice, 16th Edn., p.  118	putsthe matter thus:-"  Analogous to the publication of libels upon either  Houseis the publication of false or perverted, or of partial	 andinjurious reports of debates or proceedings of either  Houseor  committees of either House or misrepresentations of	 thespeeches  of  particular members.  But as the  Commons	haverepeatedly  made orders forbidding the publications  of	 thedebates or other proceedings of their House or any committeethereof which, though not renewed in any subsequent107850session,  are considered to be still in force, it  has	beenruled  that an alleged misrepresentation is not in itself  aproper matter for the consideration of the House, the  rightcourse	being  to  call	 attention  to	the  report  as	  aninfringement  of  the  orders  of the  House,  and  then  tocomplain  of the misrepresentation as an aggravation of	 theoffence."The  fact  that the House of Commons jealously	guards	thisparticular privilege is amply borne out by the fact that  aslate  as  May  31, 1875, when Lord  Hartington	sponsored  amotion	in the House of Commons " that this House  will	 notentertain any complaint in respect of the publication of thedebates	 or  proceedings of the House, or of  any  committeethereof,  except when such debates or any proceedings  shallhave  been  conducted  within  closed  doors  or  when	suchpublication  shall  have been expressly	 prohibited  by	 theHouse  or  any	committee or in	 case  of  wilful  misrepre-sentation or other offence in relation to such publication "the  House  of	Commons rejected  the  same  outright.	 Theconclusion   deducible	from  this  circumstance   is	thussummarised in May's Parliamentary Practice at p. 118:-"  So  long  as the debates  are  correctly  and  faithfullyreported,  the orders which prohibit their  publication	 arenot  enforced;	but  when they are reported  mala  fide	 thepublishers of newspapers are liable to punishment."Several instances are given in May's Parliamentary  Practiceat  pp. 118-19 where proceedings have been taken for  breachof privilege including a case of the publication in 1801  ofa  proceeding  which the House of Lords had  ordered  to  beexpunged from the journal.  It is said that that was a	caseof  privilege  of  the	House of Lords and  not	 a  case  ofprivilege of the House of Commons and it is pointed out thatthere  has  been no instance of such a	claim  of  privilegehaving been made by the House of Commons for over a century.In  the	 first	place, it should  be  remembered  that	thisprivilege,  as	stated in Halsbury's Laws  of  England,	 2ndEdn., Vol. 24, p. 351, is a common privilege claimed by bothHouses and, if the House of851Lords  could  assert and exercise it in 1801,  there  is  noreason to suppose that the House of Commons will not be ableto  do	so  if	any occasion arises  for  its  assertion  orexercise.   If	the House of Commons has not done so  for  along  time  it must rather be assumed that no  occasion	 hadarisen	for  the assertion and exercise of this	 power	thanthat  it  had  ceased  to have the power  at  all  (Cf.	 theobservations  in Wason v. Walter) (1) and In re:  BanwarilalRoy  (2)).   Further the fact that the House of	 Commons  in1875  rejected	Lord Hartington's motion referred  to  abovealso clearly indicates that the House of Commons is  anxiousto  preserve this particular privilege.	 It  is	 interestingalso  to  note	the new point that arose  in  the  House  ofCommons regarding the publication of certain proceedings  inAugust	1947.  A Committee of Privileges found that one	 Mr.Evelyn	Walkden,  member  for Doncaster,  had  revealed	 theproceedings of a private party meeting to a newspaper.	 TheCommittee  thought  that  the  practice	 of  holding   partymeetings  of  a	 confidential  character  had  become  well-established  and  must	be taken as a  normal  and  everydayincident  of  parliamentary procedure.	The  Committee	feltthat attendance at such meetings within the precincts of thePalace	of  Westminster during the session was part  of	 themember's  normal duties and the publication by	the  handingout  of a report of the proceedings amounted to a breach  ofthe privilege of the House.  It is true that the House	onlyresolved  that	Mr.  Walkden  was  guilty  of  dishonourableconduct,  but  did  not	 expel him  but	 it  also  passed  aresolution  that in future any person offering	payment	 forthe  disclosure of such information would incur the  House'sgrave  displeasure (3).	 In this case the inquiry  was	withregard	to  the conduct of a member for having	committed  abreach of the privilege of the House by publishing the	pro-ceedings  to  an outsider.  The point, however, to  note  isthat whatever doubts there might have been as to whether theproceedings  of the private party meetings could be  equatedwith the regular proceedings of(1) (1868) L.R. IV Q.B. 73.(2) 48 C.W. N. 766, 787.(3)  Ridge's  Constitutional Law, 8th Edn., P. 70 and  May'sParliamentary Practice, 16th Edn., P. 52.852the  House of Commons, there was, nevertheless, no  questionor  doubt about the existence of the power or  privilege  ofthe  House to forbid publication of the proceedings  of	 theHouse.	 This case also shows that the House of Commons	 hadnot only not abandoned its power or privilege of prohibitingthe   publication  of  its  proceedings	 proper	  but	alsoconsidered the question of applying this power or  privilegeto the publication by a member of the proceedings that	tookplace  in a private party meeting held within the  precinctsof the House.As  to	(b): It has already been said that  the	 freedom  ofspeech	claimed	 by the House and granted by the  Crown	 is,when  necessary, ensured by the secrecy of the debate  whichin  its turn is protected by prohibiting publication of	 thedebates	 and proceedings as well as by	excluding  strangersfrom  the House.  Any member could in the old days "  spy  astranger  "  and the Speaker had to clear the House  of	 allstrangers   which  would,  of  course,	include	 the   Pressreporters.   This right was exercised in 1849 and  after  20years in 1870 and again in 1872 and 1874.  In 1875, however,this rule was modified by a resolution of the House only  tothis  extent, namely, that, on a member spying	a  stranger,the  Speaker would put the matter to the vote of  the  House(1).  This right was exercised in 1923 and again as late  ason  November 18, 1958 (2).  This also shows that  there	 hasbeen no diminution in the eagerness of the House of  Commonsto  protect  itself  by securing the secrecy  of  debate  byexcluding strangers from the House when any occasion arises.The  object  of	 excluding  strangers  is  to  prevent	 thepublication of the debates and proceedings in the House and,if  the	 House	is tenaciously clinging	 to  this  power  orprivilege  of excluding strangers, it is not likely that  ithas  abandoned	its  power  or	privilege  to  prohibit	 thepublication  of reports of debates or proceedings that	takeplace within its precincts.The  result of the foregoing discussion, therefore, is	thatthe House of Commons had at the commencement(1)  Taswell-Langmead, p. 660.(2)  The Statesman dated November 20, 1958.853of  our Constitution the power or privilege  of	 prohibitingthe  publication of even a true and faithful report  of	 thedebates or proceedings that take place within the House.   Afortiori  the  House had at the relevant time the  power  orprivilege of prohibiting the publication of an inaccurate orgarbled version of such debates or proceedings.	 The  latterpart of Art. 194(3) confers all these powers, privileges andimmunities on the House of the Legislature of the States, asArt.  105(3) does on the Houses of Parliament.	It  is	saidthat  the  conditions  that prevailed in the  dark  days  ofBritish	 history, which led to the Houses of  Parliament  toclaim  their powers, privileges and immunities, do  not	 nowprevail	 either in the United Kingdom or in our country	 andthat there is, therefore, no reason why we should adopt themin these democratic days.  Our Constitution clearly providesthat until Parliament or the State Legislature, as the	casemay be, makes a law defining the powers, privileges and	 im-munities  of  the House, its members  and  Committees,	theyshall have all the powers, privileges and immunities of	 theHouse  of Commons as at the date of the commencement of	 ourConstitution  and yet to deny them those powers,  privilegesand immunities, after finding that the House of Commons	 hadthem  at  the relevant time, will be not  to  interpret	 theConstitution  but to re-make it.  Nor do we share  the	viewthat  it will not be right to entrust our Houses with  thesepowers,	  privileges  and  immunities,,	 for  we  are	wellpersuaded  that our Houses, like the House of Commons,	willappreciate  the benefit of publicity and will  not  exercisethe powers, privileges and immunities except in gross cases.Re.   II: Assuming that the petitioner, as a citizen and  aneditor	 of  a	newspaper,  has	 under	Art.  19(1)(a)	 thefundamental  right to publish a true and faithful report  ofthe   debates  or  proceedings	that  take  place   in	 theLegislative  Assembly  of  Bihar  and  granting	 that	thatAssembly  under Art. 194(3) has all the	 powers,  privilegesand  immunities	 of  the House	of  Commons  which  include,amongst others, the right to prohibit the publication of anyreport of the debates or proceedings,854whose  right  is  to prevail-?	 Learned  advocate  for	 thepetitioner   contends  that  the  powers,   privileges	 andimmunities  of	the Legislative Assembly under	Art.  194(3)must  give  way to the fundamental right of  the  petitionerunder  Art.  19(1)(a).	 In  other  words,  Art.  194	(3),according to him, is subject to Art. 19 (1) (a).Learned	 advocate  for the petitioner seeks to	support	 hisclient's claim in a variety of ways which may nowbe noted, seriatim :-(i)  that though cl. (3) of Art. 194 has not, in terms, beenmade  "subject	to the provision of the Constitution  ",  itdoes  not  necessarily mean that it is not so  subject,	 andthat the several clauses of Art. 194 or Art. 105 should	 notbe treated as distinct and separate provisions but should beread as a whole and that, so read, all the clauses should betaken  as  subject to the provisions  of  the  Constitution,which, of course, would include Art. 19(1)(a);(ii) that Art. 194(1), like Art. 105(1), in reality operatesas  an	abridgement of the fundamental right Of	 freedom  ofspeech	 conferred  by	Art.  19(1)(a)	when  exercised	  inParliament or the State Legislatures respectively, but	Art.194(3)	does  not, in terms, purport to be an  exception  toArt. 19(1)(a) ;(iii)	  that	Art. 19, which enunciates  a  transcendentalprinciple and confers on the citizens of India	indefeasibleand fundamental rights of a permanent nature,, is  enshrinedin  Part  III  of our Constitution, which, in  view  of	 itssubject	 matter, is more important, enduring and  sacrosanctthan  the  rest of the provisions of the  Constitution,	 butthat  the second part of Art. 194(3) is of the nature  of  atransitory  provision  which, from its very  nature,  cannotoverride the fundamental rights;(iv) that if, in pursuance of the provisions of Art. 105(3),Parliament  makes  a  law under entry 74 in List  I  to	 theSeventh	  Schedule  defining  the  powers,  privileges	 andimmunities  of	the House or Houses of	Parliament  and	 itsmembers and committees or if, in pursuance of the provisionsof  Art.  194(3), the State Legislature makes  a  law  underentry 39 in List II to855the  Seventh  Schedule defining the powers,  privileges	 andimmunities  of the House or Houses of the Legislature  of  aState and its members and committees and if, in either case,the  powers,  privileges  and  immunities  so  defined	 andconferred  on  the  House or Houses  are  repugnant  to	 thefundamental  rights  of the citizens, such law	will,  underArt. 13, to the extent of such repugnancy, be void and	thatsuch  being the intention of the Constitution makers in	 theearlier	 part  of Art. 194(3) and there	 being	no  apparentindication  of a different intention in the latter  part  ofthe  same clause, the powers, privileges and  immunities  ofthe House of Commons conferred by the latter part of cl. (3)must also be taken as subject to the fundamental rights;(v)  that the observations in Anand Bihari Mishra v.   RamSahay  (1)  and	 the  decision of  this	 Court	in  GunupatiKeshavram Reddy v. Nafisul Hasan (2) clearly establish	thatArt. 194(3) is subject to the fundamental rights.The  arguments,	 thus formulated, sound plausible  and	evenattractive,  but  do  not bear close scrutiny,	as  will  bepresently seen.Article 194 has already been quoted in extenso.	 It is quiteclear that the subject matter of each of its four clauses isdifferent.   Clause  (1) confers on the members	 freedom  ofspeech	in the Legislature, subject, of course,	 to  certainprovisions therein referred to.	 Clause (2) gives  immunity,to  the	 members or any person authorised by  the  House  topublish any report etc. from legal proceedings.	 Clause	 (3)confers	 certain powers.  Privileges and immunities  on	 theHouse  of the Legislature of a State and on the members	 andthe committees thereof and finally el. (4) extends the	pro-visions of cls. (1) to (3) to persons who are not members ofthe House, but who, by virtue of the Constitution, have	 theright to speak and otherwise to take part in the proceedingsof the House or any committee thereof.	In the second place,the fact that cl. (1) has been expressly made subject to theprovisions of the Constitution but cls. (2) to (4) have	 notbeen stated to(1) A.1.R. (1952) M.B. 31, 43.(2) A.I.R. (1954) S.C. 636.856be so subject indicates that the Constitution makers did notintend	cls. (2) to (4) to be subject to the  provisions  ofthe  Constitution.  If the Constitution makers	wanted	thatthe  provisions of all the clauses should be subject to	 theprovisions of the Constitution, then the Article would	havebeen  drafted  in  a different way, namely,  it	 would	havestarted with the words: " Subject to the provisions of	thisConstitution  and the rules and standing  orders  regulatingthe  procedure	of the Legislature " and  then	the  subjectmatter	of the four clauses would have been set out as	sub-cls.  (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) so as to indicate  that	 theoverriding provisions of the opening words qualified each ofthe  subclauses.  In the third place, in may well be  arguedthat the words " regulating the procedure of the Legislature"  occurring  in  cl.  (1) of Art. 194	should	be  read  asgoverning both " the provisions of the Constitution " and  "the  rules and standing orders ". So read freedom of  speechin the Legislature becomes subject to the provisions of	 theConstitution  regulating the procedure of  the	Legislature,that  is  to  say,  subject  to	 the  Articles	relating  toprocedure  in Part VI including Arts. 208 and 211,  just  asfreedom	 of  speech in Parliament under Art.  105(1),  on  asimilar	 construction, will become subject to  the  Articlesrelating to procedure in Part V including Arts. 118 and 121.The  argument that the whole of Art. 194 is subject to	Art.19(1)(a)  overlooks the provisions of cl. (2) of  Art.	194.The right conferred on a citizen under Art. 19(1)(a) can  berestricted by law which falls within cl. (2) of that Articleand  he may be made liable in a court of law for  breach  ofsuch  law, but el. (2) of Art. 194 categorically  lays	downthat  no member of the Legislature is to be made  liable  toany proceedings in any court in respect of anything said  orany  vote given by him in the Legislature or  in  committeesthereof and that no person will be liable in respect of	 thepublication by or under the authority of the House of such aLegislature  of	 any  report,  paper  or  proceedings.	 Theprovisions of cl. (2) of Art. 194, therefore, indicate	thatthe  freedom of speech referred to in el. (1)  is  differentfrom the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed857under Art. 19(1)(a) and cannot be cut down in any way by anylaw contemplated by cl. (2) of Art. 19.As to the second head of arguments noted above it has to  bepointed out that if the intention of cl. (1) of Art. 194 wasonly  to indicate that it was an abridgement of the  freedomof speech which would have been available to a member of theLegislature as a citizen under Art. 19(1)(a), then it  wouldhave  been  easier  to say in cl. (1) that  the	 freedom  ofspeech	conferred  by Art. 19(1)(a), when exercised  in	 theLegislature   of  a  State,  would,  in	 addition   to	 therestrictions  permissible  by  law under  cl.  (2)  of	thatArticle,  be  further  subject	to  the	 provisions  of	 theConstitution  and the rules and standing  orders  regulatingprocedure  of  that Legislature.  There would have  been  nonecessity for conferring a new the freedom of speech as	 thewords " there shall be freedom of speech in the	 Legislatureof every State " obviously intend to do.Learned advocate for the petitioner has laid great  emphasison  the two parts of the provisions of cl. (3) of Art.	194,namely,	 that  the powers, privileges and  immunities  of  aHouse  of the Legislature of a State and of the members	 andcommittees thereof shall be such as may from time to time bedefined	 by the Legislature by law and that until then	theyshall be those of the House of Commons of the Parliament  ofthe United Kingdom and of its -members and committees.	 Theargument  is that a law defining the powers, privileges	 andimmunities  of	a  House  or  Houses  and  the	members	 andcommittees thereof can be made by Parliament under entry  74in  List  I and by the State Legislature under entry  39  ofList  11  and if a law so made takes away  or  abridges	 theright  to freedom of speech guaranteed under  Art.  19(1)(a)and  is	 not  protected under Art. 19(2), it  will  at	onceattract	 the operation of the peremptory provisions of	Art.13  and	 become void to the extent of the  contravention  ofthat  Article.	But it is pointed out that if Parliament  orthe State Legislature does not choose to define the  powers,privileges  and immunities and the Houses of  Parliament  orthe House or Houses of the State Legislature108858or  the	 members  and committees  thereof  get	the  powers,privileges and immunities of the House of Commons, there canbe no reason why, in such event, the last mentioned  powers,privileges  and	 immunities should be	independent  of	 andoverride the provisions of Art. 19 (1)(a).   The  conclusionsought to be pressed upon us is that	that  could  not  bethe intention of the Constitution  makers and, therefore, itmust  be held that the powers, privileges and immunities  ofthe House of Commons and of its members and committees	thatare  conferred	by the latter part of Art.  105(3)  on	eachHouse  of Parliament and the members and committees  thereofand  by	 the latter part of Art. 194(3) on a  House  of	 theLegislature  of	 a  State and  the  members  and  committeesthereof must be, like the powers, privileges and  immunitiesdefined	 by  law,  to be made by  Parliament  or  the  StateLegislature as the case may be, subject to the provisions ofArt. 19(1)(a).	We are unable to accept this reasoning.	  Itis  true, that a law made by Parliament in pursuance of	 theearlier	 part of Art. 105(3) or by the State Legislature  inpursuance of the earlier part of Art. 194(3) will, not be  alaw made in exercise of constituent power like the law whichwas considered in Sankari Prasad Singh Deo v. Union of India(1)  but  will	be  one made in	 exercise  of  its  ordinarylegislative  powers  under Art. 246 read  with	the  entriesreferred to above and that consequently if such a law  takesaway  or  abridges  any of the fundamental  rights  it	willcontravene the peremptory provisions of Art. 13(2) and	willbe void to the extent of such contravention and it may	wellbe that that is precisely the reason why our Parliament	 andthe  State Legislatures have not made any law  defining	 thepowers,	 privileges  and immunities just as  the  AustralianParliament   had  not  made  any  under	 s.  49	  of   theirConstitution  corresponding to Art. 194(3) up to  1955	whenthe case of The Queen v. Richards (2) was decided.  It	doesnot,  however,	follow	that if the  powers,  privileges  orimmunities  conferred by the latter part of  those  Articlesare  repugnant to the fundamental rights, they must also  bevoid to the(1) [1952] S.C.R. 89, go.(2) (1955) 92 C L.R. 57.859extent	of such repugnancy. it must not be  overlooked	thatthe   provisions  of  Art.  105(3)  and	 Art.	194(3)	 areconstitutional laws and not ordinary laws made by Parliamentor  the State Legislatures and that, therefore, they are  assupreme	 as  the  provisions of Part  III.   Further,  quiteconceivably  our  Constitution	makers,	 not  knowing	whatpowers,	  privileges  and  immunities  Parliament   or	 theLegislature  of	 a  State may arrogate	and  claim  for	 itsHouses-	 members or committees, thought fit not to take	 anyrisk   and  accordingly	 made  such  laws  subject  to	 theprovisions of Art. 13 ; but that knowing and being satisfiedwith  the  reasonableness  of  the  powers,  privileges	 andimmunities  of the House of Commons at the  commencement  ofthe Constitution, they did not in their wisdom, think fit tomake  such powers, privileges and immunities subject to	 thefundamental  right conferred by Art. 19(1)(a). We  must,  byapplying  the cardinal rules of construction  ascertain	 theintention of the Constitution makers from the language	usedby  them.   In	this connection	 the  observations  made  inAnantha	 Krishnan  v.  State of Madras	(1)  by	 VenkataramaAiyar, J., appear to us to be apposite and correct:-"As  against  this the learned Advocate for  the  petitionerurges that the fundamental rights are under the Constitutionin a paramount position, that under Art. 13 the Legislaturesof  the country have no power to abrogate or  abridge  them,that  the  power to tax is the power to	 destroy  and  that,therefore,  part 12 is inoperative in respect of the  rightsconferred under Part 111.  I am unable to agree.  Art. 13 onwhich this argument is mainly founded does not support	sucha  wide	 contention.  It applies in terms only	to  laws  inforce  before  the commencement of the Constitution  and  tolaws to be enacted by the States, that is, in future.  It isonly  those  two classes of laws that are declared  void  asagainst	 the provisions of Part 111.  It does not  apply  tothe  Constitution  itself It does not enact that  the  otherportions  of the Constitution should be void as against	 theprovisions in Part III and it would be surprising if it did,seeing that all of them(1)  A.I.R. (1952) Mad, 395, 405.860are  parts  of one organic whole.   Article  13,  therefore,cannot	be  read  so as to render any portion  of  the	Con-stitution  invalid.  This conclusion is also  in  accordancewith  the  principle adopted in interpretation	of  statutesthat  they  should  be so construed as to  give	 effect	 andoperation  to all portions thereof and that  a	constructionwhich  renders	any portion of them  inoperative  should  beavoided.   For these reasons I must hold that the  operationof  Part  12  is  not cut down by  Part	 III  and  that	 thefundamental rights are within the powers of the taxation  bythe State."Article	 19(1)(a) and Art. 194(3) have to be reconciled	 andthe  only  way	of  reconciling the same  is  to  read	Art.19(1)(a) as subject to the latter part of Art. 194(3),	justas Art. 31 has been read as subject to Art. 265 in the casesof  Ramjilal  v. Income-tax Officer,  Mohindargarh  (1)	 andLaxmanappa  Hanumantappa v. Union of India (2),	 where	thisCourt  has held that Art. 31(1) has to be read as  referringto  deprivation	 of  property  otherwise  than	by  way	  oftaxation.   In	the light of the foregoing  discussion,	 theobservations in the Madhya Bharat case (3) relied on by	 thepetitioner,  cannot, with respect, be supported as  correct.Our  decision in Gunupati Keshavram Reddy v.  Nafisul  Hasan(4), also relied on by learned advocate for the	 petitioner,proceeded entirely on a concession of counsel and -cannot beregarded  as  a considered opinion on the subject.   In	 ourjudgment  the principle of harmonious construction  must  beadopted	 and so construed, the provisions of Art.  19(1)(a),which are general, must yield to Art. 194(1) and the  latterpart of its el. (3) which are special.Seeing that the present proceedings have been initiated on apetition  under	 Art.  32 of the  Constitution	and  as	 thepetitioner may not be entitled, for reasons stated above, toavail himself of Art. 19(1)(a) to support this	application,learned advocate for the petitioner falls back upon Art.  21and  contends that the proceedings before the  Committee  ofPrivileges  threaten  to  deprive him  of  personal  libertyotherwise(1)  [1951] S.C R. 127.(3)  A.I.R. (1952) M.B. 31, 43,(2)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 769.(4) A.I.R. (1954) S.C. 636.861than  in accordance with procedure established by law.	 TheLegislative  Assembly claims that under Art. 194(3)  it	 hasall  the  powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed  by	 theBritish	 House	of  Commons  at	 the  commencement  of	 ourConstitution.	If  it	has  those  powers,  privileges	 andimmunities,  then it can certainly enforce the same, as	 theHouse  of  Commons can do.  Article 194(3)  confers  on	 theLegislative Assembly those powers, privileges and immunitiesand Art. 208 confers power on it to frame rules.  The  BiharLegislative  Assembly  has framed rules in exercise  of	 itspowers under that Article.  It follows, therefore, that Art.194(3)	read  with  the rules so framed has  laid  down	 theprocedure   for	  enforcing  its  powers,   privileges	 andimmunities.  If, therefore, the Legislative Assembly has thepowers, privileges and immunities of the I-louse of  Commonsand if the petitioner is eventually deprived of his personalliberty as a result of the proceedings before the  Committeeof  Privileges, such deprivation will be in accordance	withprocedure  established	by  law and  the  petitioner  cannotcomplain  of  the  breach,  actual  or	threatened,  of	 hisfundamental right under Art. 21.We  now	 proceed  to consider the  other  points  raised  bylearned counsel for the petitioner.  He argues that assumingthat the Legislative Assembly has the powers, privileges andimmunities it claims and that they override the	 fundamentalright	of   the  petitioner,  the   Legislative   Assembly,nevertheless, must exercise those privileges and  immunitiesin accordance with the standing orders laying down the rulesof  procedure governing the conduct of its business made  inexercise  of powers under Art. 208.  Rule 207 lays down	 theconditions as to the admissibility of a motion of privilege.According to cl. (ii) of this rule the motion must relate toa  specific  matter of recent occurrence.   The	 speech	 wasdelivered  on  May  30,1957, and Shri  Nawal  Kishore  SinhaM.L.A.	sent his notice of motion on June 10, 1957, that  isto  say, 10 days after the speech had been  delivered.	 Thematter	that  occurred	10 days prior to  the  date  of	 thesubmission  of the notice of motion cannot be said to  be  aspecific matter of recent862occurrence.  It is impossible for this Court to prescribe  aparticular  period  for moving a privilege motion so  as  tomake  the subject matter of the motion a specific matter  ofrecent	occurrence.  This matter must obviously be  left  tothe discretion of the Speaker of the House of Legislature todetermine whether the subject matter of the motion is or  isnot  a specific matter of recent occurrence.  The copies  ofthe proceedings marked as Annexure D in Annexure III to	 thepetition do not disclose that any objection was taken by anymember	on  the ground that the matter was  not	 a  specificmatter of recent occurrence.  We do not consider that  thereis any substance in this objection.Reference is then made to rr. 208 and 209 which lay down theprocedure as to what is to happen if any objection is  takento leave being granted to the mover to move his motion.	  Itis  said  that Shri Ramcharitra Sinha M.L.A. had  raised  anobjection to leave being granted to Shri Nawal Kishore Sinhato  move  the  privilege motion.   This	 allegation  in	 thepetition  does not appear to be borne out by the account  ofproceedings  in the House to which reference has been  made.Shri  Ramcharitra Sinha only wanted to know  the  conventionrelating  to the question of admissibility of such a  motionand  the  Speaker accordingly read out el. (ii) of  r.	208.After  that  Shri  Ramcharitra Sinha did  not  say  anythingfurther.   The	Speaker then said that	he  understood	thatthere  was no opposition in the matter and,  therefore,	 theHon'ble	 member was to be understood as having received	 theleave of the House and called upon him to say what be wantedto  say.  Thereupon, as stated earlier, Shri Karpuri  Thakurwanted to know what had been published in the Searchlight ofMay  31,  1957, and what ought not to have  been  published.The Speaker thereupon read out the notice submitted by	ShriNawal Kishore Sinha which concisely referred to the  subjectmatter of the motion and contained a reference to the  issueof  the	 Searchlight of May 31, 1957, a copy  of  which	 wasfiled along with the notice.  After the notice had been readthe  Speaker permitted Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha to move	 hisprivilege motion, which the latter did.	 There863was  no amendment proposed and the Speaker then stated	whatthe  question before the House was, Nobody having  indicatedhis opposition, he declared the motion to be carried.  Therewas,  in  the  circumstances,  no  non-compliance  with	 theprovisions of r. 208 read with r. 209.The  next argument founded on non-compliance with the  rulesis  based on r. 215.  Clause (i) of that rule provides	thatthe  Committee of Privileges should meet as soon as  may  beafter the question has been referred to it and from time  totime thereafter till a report is made within the time  fixedby the House.  In this case the House admittedly did not fixa  time	 within	 which	the report was to  be  made  by	 theCommittee  of  Privileges.   This  circumstance	 immediatelyattracts  the  proviso, according to which where  the  Housedoes  not fix any time for the presentation of	the  report,the report has to be presented within one month of the	dateon  which the reference to the Committee was made.   Learnedadvocate for the petitioner argues that one month's time hadlong  gone past and, therefore, the Committee of  Privilegesbecame functus officio and cannot, under the rules,  proceedwith   the  reference.	 There	is  no	substance  in	thiscontention, because the second proviso to cl. (i) of r.	 215clearly provides that the House may at any time on a  motionbeing made direct that the time for the presentation of	 thereport	by the Committee be extended to a date specified  inthe  motion.   The words " at any time "  occurring  in	 thesecond proviso quite clearly indicate that this extension oftime  may be within the time fixed by the House or,  on	 itsfailure to do so, within the time fixed by the first provisoor  even thereafter, but before the report is actually	madeor  presented  to the House (Cf.  Raja Har Narain  Singh  v.Chaudhrain  Bhagwant  Kuar) (1).  Further, the	question  oftime within which the Committee of Privileges is to make itsreport	to the House is a matter of internal  management  ofthe affairs of the House and a matter between the House	 andits  Committee	and  confers no right  on  the	party  whoseconduct is the subject matter of investigation(1)  (1891) L.R. 18 I.A. 55, 58.864and this is so particularly when the House has the power  toextend time " at any time ".The  next argument is that the Committee cannot	 proceed  toinvestigate  what has not been referred to it. Reference  ismade to the resolution of the Committee (Annexure 11 to	 thepetition) and the notice issued to the petitioner  (AnnexureI  to the petition).  It is said that while the	 Committee'sresolution speaks of publishing " a perverted and unfaithfulreport	of the proceedings of the Assembly relating  to	 thespeech of Maheshwar Prasad, Narayan Sinha M.L.A."  includingthe expunged portion thereof, the notice simply refers to  "a  question  involving	breach of  privilege  of  the  BiharLegislative  Assembly arising out of the publication of	 thenews item " and calls upon the petitioner to show cause	 whyappropriate  action should not be recommended against him  "for  breach of privilege of the Speaker and the Assembly  ".We fail to perceive how the two documents can be read as re-ferring to two different charges.  The notice served on	 thepetitioner  is	couched	 in terms which	 cover	the  mattersreferred  to in the Committee's resolution.  The  effect  inlaw of the order of the Speaker to expunge a portion of	 thespeech	of a member may be as if that portion bad  not	beenspoken.	 A report of the whole speech in such circumstances,though	factually  correct,  may, in  law,  be	rewarded  asperverted and unfaithful report and the publication of	sucha  perverted  and  unfaithful  report  of  a  speech,  i.e.,including  the expunged portion in derogation to the  ordersof  the	 Speaker passed in the House may,  prima  facie,  beregarded  as constituting a breach of the privilege  of	 theHouse  arising out of the publication of the offending	newsitem  and that is precisely the charge that is	contemplatedby the Committee's resolution and which the petitioner is bythe  notice called upon to answer.  We prefer to express  noopinion as to whether there has, in fact, been any breach ofthe privilege of the House, for ofthat the House alone is the judge;The  next  argument  urged  by	learned	 advocate  for	 thepetitioner is that, after the House had referred the  matterto the committee of privileges, nothing was865done for about one year, and after such a lapse of time	 thecommittee  has suddenly woke up and resuscitated the  matteronly  with a view to penalise the petitioner.  In  paragraph17  of	the  petition  the charge  of  mala  fides  is	thusformulated:-"  17.	 That  the  Committee  of  Privileges  aforesaid  isproceeding  against the petitioner mala fide with a view  tovictimise  and	muzzle	him since the  petitioner  has	beenthrough	  his	newspaper   unsparingly	  criticising	 theadministration in the State of Bihar of which opposite partyNo. 1 is the Chief Minister."It  will  be noticed that the allegation of  mala  fides  isagainst	 the  Committee of Privileges and  not	against	 theChief Minister and, therefore, to controvert this allegationan  affidavit  affirmed	 by  the  Secretary  to	 the   BiharLegislative  Assembly has been filed.  In the  affidavit  inreply reference is made to certain issues of the Searchlightindicating that charges were being made by the paper againstthe  Chief Minister and the suggestion is that it is at	 theinstance  of the Chief Minister that the Committee  has	 nowmoved in the matter.  This is a new allegation.	 That apart,the Chief Minister is but one of the fifteen members of	 theCommittee and one of the three hundred and nineteen  membersof  the	 House.	  The  Committee  of  Privileges  ordinarilyincludes members of all parties represented in the House andit  is	difficult to expect that the Committee, as  a  body,will  be  actuated by any mala fide  intention	against	 thepetitioner.   Further the business of the Committee is	onlyto make a report to the House and the ultimate decision willbe  that  of the House itself.	In  the	 circumstances,	 theallegation  of bad faith cannot be readily accepted.  It  isalso  urged that the Chief Minister should not take part  inthe  proceedings  before  the Committee because	 he  has  aninterest in the matter and reference is made to the decisionin  Queen  v.  Meyer (1).  The case of	bias  of  the  ChiefMinister  (respondent 2) has not been made anywhere  in	 thepetition and we do not think if would be right to permit thepetitioner to raise this question, for it depends(1) L.R. (1876) 1 Q.B.D. 173.109866on  facts which were not mentioned in the petition but	wereput  forward in a rejoinder to which the respondents had  noopportunity to reply.Finally,  the petitioner denies that the  expunged  portionshave  been published. We do not think we should express	 anyopinion	 on this controversy, at any rate, at this stage  Ifthe  Legislature  Assembly  of	Bihar  has  the	 powers	 andprivileges it claims and is entitled to take proceedings forbreach	thereof, as we hold it is, then it must be  left  tothe  House itself to determine whether there has,  in  fact,been any breach of its privilege.  Thus, it will be for	 theHouse  on  the	advice of its  Committee  of  Privileges  toconsider  the true effect of the Speaker's  directions	thatcertain portions of the proceedings be expunged and  whetherthe  publication  of  the speech, if  it  has  included	 theportion which had been so directed to be expunged in the eyeof the law, tantamount to publishing something which had notbeen said and, whether such a publication cannot be  claimedto  be a publication of an accurate and faithful  report  ofthe  speech.  It will, again, be for the House to  determinewhether	 the  Speaker's ruling made distinctly	and  audiblythat  a portion of the proceedings be expunged amounts to  adirection  to the Press reporters not to publish  the  same,and  whether  the  publication	of the	speech,	 if  it	 hasincluded  the portion directed to be so expunged, is  or  isnot a violation of the order of the Speaker -and a breach ofthe  privilege of the House amounting to a contempt  of	 theSpeaker and the House.For reasons stated above we think that this petition  shouldbe dismissed.  In the circumstances, there will be no  orderfor costs.SUBBA RAO, J.-I have had the advantage of perusing the	wellconsidered  judgment of my.  Lord the Chief Justice.  It  ismy misfortune to differ from him and my learned brethren.  Iwould not have ventured to do so but for my conviction	thatthe  reasoning	adopted therein would  unduly  restrict	 andcircumscribe  the  wide	 scope and content  of	one  of	 thecherished fundamental rights, namely, the freedom of  speechin its application to the Press.867This is an application under Article 32 of the	Constitutionfor  quashing  the  proceedings	 before	 the  Committee	  ofPrivileges  of	the  Bihar Legislative Assembly	 I  and	 forrestraining  the  respondents, i.e., the Chief	Minister  ofBihar and the said Committee of Privileges, from  proceedingagainst the petitioner for the s publication in the issue ofthe  " Searchlight " dated May 31, 1957, an account  of	 thedebate in the House (The Legislative Assembly, Bihar) on May30, 1957, and for other incidental reliefs.  The petitioner,Pandit	M. S. M. Sharma, is the editor of the "	 Searchlight",  an English daily newspaper published from Patna  in	 theState  of  Bihar.  On May 30, 1957,  Shri  Maheswara  PrasadNarayan Singh, a member of the State Assembly made a  bitterattack	in  the	 Assembly on the Chief	Minister,  Shri	 SriKrishna	 Sinha, and on Shri Mahesh Prasad Sinha, a  ministerin  the	 previous  cabinet, who was  defeated  at  the	lastGeneral Elections.  It is said that in regard to that speechthe  Speaker  gave a ruling that  certain  portions  thereofshould	be expunged from the proceedings.  In the  issue  ofthe  "	Searchlight"  dated May 31, 1957,  an  accurate	 andfaithful   account   of	 the,  proceedings  of	 the   BiharLegislative  Assembly of May 30, 1957, was  published  underthe  caption "BITTEREST ATTACK ON CHIEF MINISTER ".  It	 wasalso indicated in the report that the Speaker had disallowedthe member to name Mr. Mahesh Prasad Sinha in respect of theMinistry formation and confined him to his remarks in regardto  his chairmanship of the Khadi Board.  It is	 alleged  inthe  affidavit that till May 31, 1957, it was not  known  toany  member of the staff of the " Searchlight  ",  includingthe  petitioner, that any portion of the debate in  questionhad  been expunged from the official record of the  Assemblyproceedings of May 30, 1957, and that in fact the petitionerdid not publish the expunged remarks.  This fact was  deniedby the respondents in their counter, but it was not  allegedthat  the  Speaker  made  any specific	order  or  gave	 anydirection  prohibiting	the publication of any part  of	 theproceedings  of the Assembly in any newspaper.	On June	 10,1957, Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha moved a privilege motion868in the House and it was carried, as, presumably, :no one hadopposed it.  On the same day, the House referred the  matterto  the Committee of Privileges without fixing any date	 forthe  presentation  of the report a of  the  Committee.	 TheCommittee  in due course held its meeting presided  over  bythe  Chief  Minister and found that a prima  facie  case  ofbreach	 of  privilege	had  been  made	 out   against	 thepetitioner.  Then, the Secretary to the Legislative Assemblyissued a notice to the petitioner informing him of the	factthat the Committee had found a prima facie case of breach ofprivilege made out against him and asking him to show cause,if  any,  on or before September 8,  1958,  why	 appropriateaction	should	not be taken against him.  Along  with	thatnotice, a copy of the motion as adopted by the Committee  ofPrivileges  in	its meeting held on August 10, 1958,  and  acopy  of  a booklet containing a collection  of	 the  papersrelating to the privilege motion moved by Shri Nawal KishoreSinha,	M.L.A.,	 on June 16, 1957, were enclosed  for  readyreference.   The booklet accompanying the  notice  containedthe  motion moved in the House, the report published in	 the"Searchlight  "	 dated May 31, 1957, and the  rules  of	 theAssembly  relating to the Committee of	Privileges.   Thoughthere was some argument on the construction of the terms  ofthe  resolution	 passed by the Committee on account  of	 theunhappy	 language  in which it was couched, it	is  manifestthat   the  breach  of	privilege  pleaded  was	  that	 thepetitioner, by including the expunged portion of the  speechof Maheshwar Prasad Narayan Singh, published a perverted andunfaithful  report of the proceedings of the Assembly.	 Thepetitioner,  thereafter, filed a petition under Art.  32  ofthe Constitution for the aforesaid reliefs.On  the	 aforesaid  facts,  the	 learned  Counsel  for	 thepetitioner,  raised the following points in support  of	 thepetition  : (1) The petitioner, as a citizen of	 India,	 hasthe fundamental right under Art. 19 (1) of the	Constitutionto  freedom  of speech and expression,	which  includes	 thefreedom	 of propagation of ideas and their  publication	 andcirculation;  and the Legislature of a State cannot claim  aprivilege in such a869way  as to infringe that right.	 This contention is  put  intwo ways: (i) The privilege conferred on the Legislature  ofa  State  is subject to the freedom conferred on  a  citizenunder  Art. 19 (1) of the Constitution ; and (ii) that	evenif  the	 privilege  was not expressly made  subject  to	 thefundamental  right under Art. 19 (1), having regard  to	 thenature	 of   the  fundamental	right  and  the	  rules	  ofinterpretation, this Court should so construe the provisionsas  to give force to both the provisions. (2) Even  if	Art.194  (3)  overrides the provisions of Art. 19,	the  powers,privileges  and immunities of the House of  Legislature	 areonly those of the House of Commons of the Parliament of	 theUnited	Kingdom,  at the commencement of  the  Constitution,i.e.,  January	26, 1950; and the House of Commons  on	thatdate  had  no privilege to prevent the	publication  of	 itsproceedings or portion expunged by the Speaker in respect ofthe  proceedings. (3) Under Art. 21 of the Constitution,  noperson	is to be deprived of his personal liberty except  inaccordance  with the procedure established by law  and	thatthe  Privilege Committee, by calling upon the petitioner  toappear at the Bar of the Legislature after making an enquiryin violation of the rules, particularly the rr. 207 (2), 208(3)  and  215 of the rules of the Assembly relating  to	 theCommittee of Privileges, has infringed his right under	thatArticle.  (4)  Mr. Maheshwara Prasad Narayan  Singh  made  abitter	attack	on the Chief Minister and  that	 report	 waspublished  in the " Searchlight ". The Chief  Minister,	 whohas  admittedly control over the Legislature or at any	rateover  the  majority  of the members  of	 the  Assembly,	 wasactuated  by mala fides in securing the initiation  of	the,proceedings against the petitioner for breach of  privilege,and  therefore	his presiding over the meeting of  the	Sub-Committee  would  vitiate its entire  proceedings.  (5)	 TheCommittee  of  Privileges enquired into	 an  allegation	 notreferred to it by the House.  The learned Solicitor General,appearing for the respondents, countered the said  argumentsand  his  contentions  may be  summarized  thus:  Under	 theConstitution,  no particular Article has more sanctity	thanthe other, even though that870Article	 deals with fundamental rights.	 Article 194 (3)  isnot  made  subject  to Art. 19	of  the	 Constitution,	and,therefore, if the House of Commons of the Parliament of	 theUnited	Kingdom	 has the power or privilege to	prevent	 thepublication  of	 its  proceedings, or at  any  rate  of	 theexpunged  portions  of	it, the Legislature of	a  State  inIndia,	has  also a similar privilege or power	and  it	 canexercise it, notwithstanding the fact that it infringes	 thefundamental right of a citizen.	 The House of Commons of theUnited	Kingdom	 has  such a  privilege	 and  therefore	 theLegislature of Bihar can exercise it and take action againstthe  person committing a breach thereof.  While a  Court  ofLaw  can  decide on the question of the	 existence  and	 theextent	of  the	 privilege of a House, it has  no  power  orjurisdiction to consider whether a particular person in factcommitted  a breach thereof.  The Legislature in  this	casehas not broken any of the rules of the Assembly relating  tothe  Committee of Privileges, and even if it did, by  reasonof  Art.  212 (1) of the Constitution, the validity  of	 itsproceedings  cannot  be	 questioned on	the  ground  of	 anyalleged	 irregularity  of  the	procedure.   There  was	  noallegation  in	the  petition  that  the  Committee  or	 theAssembly  was actuated by mala fides and even if  the  ChiefMinister was acting with mala fides-which fact was  denied-,the  proceedings  of the Committee or  of  the	Legislature,which  is  the	final authority in the	matter	of  decidingwhether	 there	was  a breach of  privilege,  would  not  devitiated.   It	was  also  denied  that	 the  Committee	  ofPrivileges  enquired into any allegation not referred to  itby the House.At the outset it would be convenient to clear the ground  ofthe  subsidiary ramifications falling outside the  field  ofcontroversy  and focus on the point that directly arises  inthis  case.   We are not concerned here with  the  undoubtedright  of  a State Legislature to control and  regulate	 itsdomestic  affairs.   In " Cases in Constitutional Law  "  byKeir and Lawson, it is stated, at page 126, as follows:"The  undoubted	 privileges of the House of Commons  are  ofthree kinds.  They include (i) exclusive871jurisdiction over all questions which arise within the wallsof    the    house,   except,	perhaps,    in	  case	  offelony................................ (ii) Certain personalprivileges which attach to members of Parliament.  The	mostimportant of these are freedom of debate, and immunity	fromcivil arrest during the sitting of Parliament and for  fortydays	      before	     and	  after		 itsassembling.............................. ' That the  freedomof speech and debates or proceedings in Parliament ought notto  be impeached or questioned in any Court or place out  ofParliament'.  (iii)  The  power of  executing  decisions  onmatters of privilege by committing members of Parliament, orany  other individuals, to imprisonment for contempt of	 theHouse."Nor  we are called upon to decide on the scope of a  Court'sjurisdiction to set aside the orders of contempt made by theLegislature or warrants issued to implement the said orders.Reported  decisions  seem  to  suggest	that  if  the  ordercommitting  a  person  for contempt or	the  warrant  issuedpursuant thereto discloses the reasons, the Court can decidewhether there is a privilege and also its extent; but,	whenit purports to issue a bald order, the Court has no power todecide,	 on the basis of other evidence, whether in  fact  abreach of privilege is involved.  As this question does	 notarise in this case, I need not express any opinion  thereon.The  stand  taken by the Legislature, as  disclosed  in	 thenotice issued, the enclosed records sent to the	 petitioner,in the counter-affidavit filed and the arguments advanced bythe respondents, is that the Legislature of a State has	 theprivilege  to  prevent	any  citizen  from  publishing	 theproceedings of the Legislature or at any rate such  portionsof  it	as are ordered to be expunged by  the  Speaker,	 andtherefore  it has a right to take action against the  personcommitting a breach of such a privilege.  The main question,therefore,   that  falls  to  be  decided  is  whether	 theLegislature  has  such	a privilege.  If  this	question  isanswered  against the Legislature, no other question  arisesfor consideration.872The   powers,	privileges,  and  immunities  of   a   StateLegislature are governed by Art. 194 of the Constitution andthe  freedom of propagation of ideas, their publication	 andcirculation  by Art. 19(1)(a) thereof.	For  convenience  ofreference, both these articles may be read in juxtaposition.Article 19 reads:" (1) All citizens shall have the right-(a) to freedom of speech and expression ..........................................................(2)  Nothing  in sub-clause (a) of clause (1)  shall  affectthe operation of any existing law, or prevent the State frommaking	any  law, in so far as such law	 imposes  reasonablerestrictions  on the exercise of the right conferred by	 thesaid  sub-clause  in the interests of the  security  of	 theState, friendly relations with foreign States, public order,decency	 or morality, or in relation to contempt  of  court,defamation or incitement to an offence."Article 194 states:" (1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution and  tothe  rules and standing orders regulating the  procedure  ofthe  Legislature,  there shall be freedom of speech  in	 theLegislature of every State.(2)  No member of the Legislature of a State shall be liableto any proceedings in any court in respect of anything	saidor any vote given by him in the Legislature or any committeethereof, and no person shall be so liable in respect of	 thepublication  by or under the authority of a House of such  aLegislature of any report, paper, votes or proceedings.(3)  In	  other	  respects,  the  powers,   privileges	 andimmunities of a House of the Legislature of a State, and  ofthe   members  and  the	 committees  of	 a  House  of	suchLegislature,  shall  be	 such as may from time	to  time  bedefined	 by the Legislature by law, and, until	so  defined,shall be those of the House of Commons of the Parliament  ofthe  United Kingdom- and of its members and  committees,  atthe commencement of this Constitution.873 (4) The provisions of clauses (1), (2) and (3) shall  applyin  relation to persons who by virtue of  this	Constitutionhave  the right to speak in, and otherwise to take  part  inthe proceedings of, a House of the Legislature of a State orany  committee thereof as they apply in relation to  membersof that Legislature."In  Romesh  Thappar v. The State of Madras (1),	 this  Courtruled that freedom of speech and expression includes freedomof  propagation of ideas and that freedom is ensured by	 thefreedom	  of  circulation.   This  freedom  is,	  therefore,comprehensive  enough to take in the freedom of	 the  press.The  said view is accepted and followed in Brij	 Bhushan  v.The State of Delhi (2).	 To the same effect is the  decisionof  this Court in Express Newspapers Ltd. v. Union of  India(3),  where  Bhagwati, J., delivering the  judgment  of	 theCourt,	held that freedom of speech and expression  includeswithin	its scope the -freedom of the Press.  In  Srinivasanv. The State of Madras (4) it was held, on the basis of	 theview  expressed by this Court, that the terms "	 freedom  ofspeech	and  expression	 "  would  include  the	 liberty  topropagate  not	only one's own views but also the  right  toprint matters which are not one's own views but have  eitherbeen  borrowed	from someone else or are printed  under	 thedirection  of that person.  I would, therefore, proceed	 to,consider the argument advanced on the basis that the freedomof speech in Art. 19(1)(a) takes in also the freedom of	 thePress in the comprehensive sense indicated by me supra.	 Theimportance of the freedom of speech in a democratic  countrycannot	be over-emphasized, and in recognition thereof,	 cl.(2)  of	 Art.  19  unlike other	 clauses  of  that  Article,confines  the scope of the restrictions on the said  freedomwithin	comparatively narrower limits.	Clause	(2)  enablesthe State to impose reasonable restrictions on the  exerciseof  the	 said right in the interest of the security  of	 theState, friendly relations with foreign States, public order,decency or(1) [1950] S.C.R. 594.		  (2) [1950] S.C.R. 605.(3) [1959] S.C.R. 12, 118.	  (4) A.I.R. (1951) Mad. 70.110874morality, or in relation to contempt of Court defamation  orincitement  to an offence.  The said Article finds place  inPart  III under the heading " Fundamental Rights ".  Article13  makes laws that are	 inconsistent with or in  derogationof  the	 fundamental  rights void  and	clause	(2)  thereofexpressly   prohibits	the  State  from  making   laws	  incontravention of the said rights.  In the words of PatanjaliSastri,	 C.  J., the said rights in Part III  are  "  rightsreserved by the people after delegation of the rights by thepeople to the institutions of government ". It is true,	 andit cannot be denied, that notwithstanding the transcendentalnature of the said rights, the Constitution may empower	 theLegislature to restrict the scope of the said rights  withinreasonable  bounds, as in fact it did under cls. (2) to	 (6)of Art. 19.  Such restrictions may be by express words or bynecessary  implication.But  the Court would not	 and  shouldnot,  having  regard to the nature of  the  rights,  readilyinfer such a restriction unless there are compelling reasonsto  do	so.  The Constitution adopted  different  and  well-understood  phraseology	 to resolve  conflicts	and  preventoverlapping  of	 various  provisions.	Some  Articles	 areexpressly  made	 subject  to  the  provisions  of  the	Con-stitution-vide Arts. 71(3), 73(1), 105, 131, etc.-, and someto specified Articles-vide Arts. 81, 107(1), 107(2)  114(3),120(1),	   etc.	   Some	  Articles   are   made	   effectivenotwithstanding	 other provisions in the Constitution  -videArts.  120(1),	136(1),	 143(2),  169(1),  etc.	  Where	 theConstitution  adopts one or other of the said  two  devices,its intention is clear and unambiguous; but, there are otherArticles which are not expressly made subject to  provisionsof the Constitution or whose operation is not made effectivenotwithstanding any other provisions.  In such cases, a dutyis  cast  upon the Court to ascertain the intention  of	 theConstituent Assembly.  Cooley in his " Constitutional Law  "points	out  that " however carefully constitutions  may  bemade,  their meaning must be often drawn in question  ".  Helays down, at page 427, the following rule, among others, asa guide to the construction of these instruments:		 875"The  whole  instrument is to be examined, with	 a  view  ofdetermining the intention of each part.	 Moreover, effect isto  be given, if possible, to the whole instrument,  and  toevery  section and clause.  And in interpreting	 clauses  itmust be presumed that words have been used in their  naturaland ordinary meaning.The  rule  may	also be stated in a different  way:  If	 twoArticles  appear to be in conflict, every attempt should  bemade  to reconcile them or to make them to  co-exist  beforeexcluding or rejecting the operation of one.Article	 194(3)	 of  the Constitution,	with  which  we	 areconcerned,  does  not  in express  terms  make	that  clausesubject to the provisions of the Constitution or to those ofArt.  19.  Article 194 has three clauses.  The first  clausedeclares  that	there  shall be freedom	 of  speech  in	 theLegislature  of	 every State and that freedom  is  expresslymade  subject to the provisions of the Constitution  and  tothe  rules and the standing orders regulating the  procedureof the Legislature.  Clause (2) gives protection to  membersof  the	 Legislature of a State from any  liability  to	 anyproceedings in any Court in respect of anything said or	 anyvote  given  by	 him in the  Legislature  or  any  committeethereof and to every person in respect of the publication byor  under the authority of a House of such a Legislature  ofany  report, paper, votes or procedure.	 The  third  clause,with  which  we are now directly concerned, confers  upon  aHouse  of the Legislature of a State and of the members	 andthe  committees	 thereof  certain  powers,  privileges	 andimmunities.  It is in two parts.   The first part says	thatthe powers, privileges	 and  immunities of a House  of	 theLegislature of a State and of the members and the committeesof  a  House of such Legislature shall be such as  may	fromtime  to time be defined by the Legislature by law; and	 thesecond	part declares that until so defined, they  shall  bethose  of  the	House of Commons of the	 Parliament  of	 theUnited	Kingdom	 and  its members  and	committees,  at	 thecommencement of the Constitution.  The question is whether876this  clause confers on the Legislature	 powers,  privilegesand immunities so as to infringe the fundamental right of  acitizen under Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.  The  firstthing  to  be  noticed is that while Art.  19(1)(a)  of	 theConstitution deals with the freedom of Speech and expressionof  a  citizen,	 Art. 194(1) declares that  there  shall  befreedom of speech in the Legislature of every State.   WhileArt.  19(1)  is	 general in terms and  is  subject  only  toreasonable  restrictions made under clause (2) of  the	saidArticle, Art. 194(1) makes the freedom of speech subject  tothe  provisions of the Constitution and rules  and  standingorders regulating the procedure of the Legislature.   Clause(2)  flows from cl. (1) and it affords protection from	lia-bility to any proceedings in a Court for persons in  respectof the acts mentioned therein.	But these two provisions  donot  touch  the fundamental right of a	citizen	 to  publishproceedings  which he is entitled to do under Art. 19(1)  ofthe  Constitution.   That is dealt with by  el.	 (3).	Thatclause	provides for powers, privileges and immunities of  aHouse  of the Legislature of a State and of the members	 andthe committees of a House, other than those specified in cl.(2).  it is not expressly made subject to the provisions  ofthe  Constitution.   I	find it difficult to  read  in	thatclause the opening words of el. (1), viz.,, " subject to theprovisions of this Constitution ", for two reasons: (i) cl.(3)  deals  with a subject wider in scope  than	 cl.(1)	 andtherefore did not flow from cl. (1); and (ii)  grammaticallyit  is not possible to import the opening words of  cl.	 (1)into cl. (3).  Therefore, I shall proceed on the basis	thatcl.  (3)  is  not  expressly made  subject  to	Art.  19  orexpressly   made  independent  of  other  Articles  of	 theConstitution.  We must, therefore, scrutinize the provisionsof that clause in the context of the other provisions of theConstitution  to ascertain whether by necessary	 implicationit excludes the operation of Art. 19.  The first thing to benoticed	 in  cl. (3) of Art. 194 is  that  the	Constitutiondeclares  that	the powers, privileges and immunities  of  aHouse of Legislature of a State and of the members and	com-mittees of a House of such Legislature are such as877defined by the Legislature by law.  In the second part, as atransitory  measure,  it  directs  that	 till  they  are  sodefined,  they shall be those of the House of.	 Commons  ofthe Parliament of the United Kingdom and of its members	 andcommittees, at the commencement of the Constitution.  I findit impossible to accept the contention that the second	partis not a transitory provision; for, the said argument is  inthe  teeth  of	the  express  words  used  therein.   It  isinconceivable  that the Constituent Assembly, having  framedthe  Constitution  covering various fields  of	activity  inminute	detail,	 should	 have  thought	fit  to	 leave	 theprivileges of the Legislatures in such a vague and  nebulousposition  compelling the Legislatures to ascertain the	con-tent  of their privileges from those obtaining in the  Houseof  Commons  at the commencement of the	 Constitution.	 Theprivilege  of  the House of Commons is	an  organic  growth.Sometimes a particular rule persists in the record but fallsinto  disuse  in  practice.   Privileges,  just	 like  otherbranches of common law, are results of compromise  dependingupon the particular circumstances of a given situation.	 Howdifficult  it is to ascertain the privilege of the House  ofCommons	 and  its  content and extent in  a  given  case  isillustrated by this case.Reliance  is placed upon other Articles of the	Constitutionin support of the contention that the second part of cl. (3)is not intended to be transitory in nature.  Under Art.	 135of  the	 Constitution,	until Parliament  by  law  otherwiseprovides,  the	Supreme Court shall have  certain  appellatejurisdiction.  Under Art. 137, subject to the provisions  ofany law made by Parliament or any rules made under Art. 145,the  Supreme Court shall have power to review  any  judgmentpronounced  or	order  made by	it.   Article  142(2)  says:"Subject to the provisions of any law made in this behalf byParliament, the Supreme Court shall, as respect the whole ofthe territory of India, have all and every power to make anyorder  for  the purpose of securing the	 attendance  of	 anyperson, the discovery or production of any documents, or theinvestigation  or  punishment of any  contempt	of  itself."Article 145878reads:"Subject	to  the	 provisions  of	 any  law  made	  byParliament,  the Supreme Court may from time to	 time,	withthe  approval  of the President, make rules  for  regulatinggenerally    the    practice   and    procedure	   of	 theCourt.............  Under  Art.	 146(2),  "Subject  to	 theprovisions of any law made by Parliament, the conditions  ofservice of officers and servants of the Supreme Court  shallbe  such  as may be prescribed by rules made  by  the  ChiefJustice	 of India or by some other Judge or officer  of	 theCourt authorised by the Chief Justice of India to make rulesfor  the purpose." Under Art. 187(3), " Until  provision  ismade  by the Legislature of the State under clause (2),	 theGovernor  may,	after consultation with the Speaker  of	 theLegislative  Assembly  or the Chairman	of  the	 LegislativeCouncil,  as  the  case may be, make  rules  regulating	 therecruitment,  and  the	conditions  of	service	 of  personsappointed,  to the secretarial staff of the Assembly or	 theCouncil, and any rules so made shall have effect subject  tothe  provisions	 of any law made under the  said  clause  ".Clause (2) of Art. 210 says " Unless the Legislature of	 theState  by law otherwise provides, this article shall,  afterthe  expiration	 of  a	period of  fifteen  years  from	 thecommencement  of  this Constitution, have effect as  if	 thewords I or in English' were  omitted therefrom."I  do  not see any analogy between the first  part  of	Art.194(3)	and  the  provisions  of  the  aforesaid   Articles.Firstly, the said Articles do not import into India the	 lawof  a  foreign	country;  secondly,  they  either  make	 theexisting  law subject to the provisions of any law  made  byParliament,  or	 declare  a particular law to  be  in  forceunless	modified by Parliament; whereas in Art.	 194(3)	 theConstitution  expressly declares that the law in respect  ofpowers, privileges and immunities is that made by a House ofthe Legislature from time to time and introduces a rider  asa transitory measure that till such law is made, the powers,privileges and immunities of the House of Commons should  bethose of the Legislature also.	I have no doubt,  therefore,that  part  two of cl..(3) of Art. 194 is intended to  be  atransitory provision and ordinarily,879unless there is a clear intention to the contrary, it cannotbe  given a higher sanctity than that of the first  part  ofcl. (3).  The first part of el. (3) reads:In other respects, the powers, privileges and immunities  ofa  House of the Legislature of a State, and of	the  membersand the committees of a House of such Legislature, shall  besuch as may from time to time be defined by the	 Legislatureby law............. Article 245 enables a State to make lawsfor the whole or any part of the State.	 Article 246(3) pro-vides that the Legislature of any State has exclusive  powerto  make laws with respect to any of the matters  enumeratedin  List  II in the Seventh Schedule  (in  the	Constitutionreferred  to as the " State List ").  Item 39 of List II  ofthe Seventh Schedule enumerates the following matters  amongothers:	  "  Powers,  privileges  and  immunities   of	 theLegislative  Assembly and of the members and the  committeesthereof............. Clause (2) of Art. 13, which is one  ofthe  Articles  in Part III relating to	fundamental  rights,prohibits the State from making any law which takes away  orabridges the rights conferred by that Part and declares thatany  law made in contravention of that clause shall  to	 theextent	of  the contravention be void.	 It  is,  therefore,manifest that the law made by the Legislature in respect  ofthe  powers,  privileges and immunities of a  House  of	 theLegislature of a State, would be void to the extent the	 lawcontravened   the  provisions  of  Art.	 19(1)(a)   of	 theConstitution,  unless  it is saved by  any  law	 prescribingreasonable restrictions within the ambit of Art. 19(2).	  Somuch  is conceded by the learned Solicitor  General.   Then,what  is  the reason or justification for holding  that	 thesecond part of that clause should be read in a different wayas  to	be free from the impact of the	fundamental  rights.When  the Constitution expressly made the  laws	 prescribingthe privileges of the Legislature of a State of our  countrysubject	 to  the fundamental rights, there  is	no  apparentreason	why they should have omitted that limitation in	 thecase  of  the  privileges of the Parliament  of	 the  UnitedKingdom	 in  their application to a State  Legislature.	  Wecannot assume that880the framers of the Constitution thought that the  privilegesof  the	 House of Commons were subject	to  the	 fundamentalrights	in  that country; for, to assume that is  to  imputeignorance  to  them of the fact that the Parliament  of	 theUnited Kingdom was supreme and there were no fetters on	 itspower  of  legislation.	 The contention also,  if  accepted,would lead to the anomaly of a law providing for  privilegesmade  by  Parliament or a Legislature of our  country  beingstruck down as infringing the fundamental rights, while	 thesame  privilege or privileges, if no law was made, would  bevalid.	  Except   the	far-fetched  suggestion	  that	 theConstitution-makers   might  have  thought  that   all	 theprivileges  of	the House of Commons, being  the  mother  ofParliaments, would not in fact offend the fundamental rightsand that, therefore, they designedly left them untouched  byPart III as unnecessary or the equally untenable guess	thatthey  thought that for a temporary period the operation	 andthe extent of the said privileges need not be curtailed,  noconvincing  or	even  plausible reason is  offered  for	 thealleged different treatment meted out to the said privilegesin  the	 said  two parts of el. (3).   If  the	Constitutionintended  to make the distinction, it would have opened	 thesecond	part  of cl. (3) with the  words  "  Notwithstandingother provisions of the Constitution orthose of Art. 19 ".I  cannot also appreciate the argument that Art. 194  shouldbe  preferred to Art. 19(1) and not vice versa.	  Under	 theConstitution,  it  is  the  duty of this  Court	 to  give  aharmonious construction to both the provisions so that	fulleffect	may be given to both, without the one excluding	 theother.	 There is no inherent inconsistency between the	 twoprovisions.   Article 19(1) (a) gives freedom of speech	 andexpression  to	a  citizen, while the second  part  of	Art.194(3)	deals with the powers, privileges and immunities  ofthe  Legislature  and of its members  and  committees.	 TheLegislature  and its members have certainly a wide range  ofpowers	and  privileges	 and  the  said	 privileges  can  beexercised  without infringing the rights of a  citizen,	 andparticularly of one who is not a member of the Legislature.881When there is a conflict, the privilege should yield to	 theextent it affects the fundamental right.  This	constructiongives  full  effect to both the Articles. A  This  Court  inGunupati Keshavram Reddy v. Nafisul Hasan (1) held that	 theorder  of  arrest  of Mr. Mistry and his  detention  in	 theSpeaker's  custody  was a breach of the provisions  of	Art.22(2)  of the Constitution.  In that case, the	said  Mistrywas  directed  by  the	Speaker of  the	 U.  P.	 LegislativeAssembly to be arrested and produced before him to answer  acharge of breach of privilege.	Though the question was	 notelaborately  considered,  five	judges	of  this  Court	 un-animously  held	 that the arrest was a clear breach  of	 theprovisions  of	Art. 22(2) of  the  Constitution  indicatingthereby that Art. 194 was subject to Articles of Part III ofthe Constitution.  I am bound by the decision of this Court.In   the  result,  I  hold  that  the  petitioner  has	 thefundamental  right to publish the report of the	 proceedingsof  the Legislature and that, as no reasonable	restrictionswere  imposed  by  law on the said  fundamental	 right,	 theaction of the respondents infringes his right entitling	 himto the relief asked for.This  case  does  not,	as  it	is  supposed  or   suggestedillustrate  any	 conflict between the  Legislature  and	 theCourt,	but  it	 is  one between  the  Legislature  and	 thecitizens of the State whose representatives constituted	 theLegislature.  I yield to none in my respect for that  augustbody,  the  Legislature of the State; but, we  are  under  aduty, enjoined on this Court by Art. 32 of the Constitution,to protect the rights of the citizens who in theory reservedto  themselves certain rights and parted only the others  tothe   Legislature.    Every  institution  created   by	 theConstitution, therefore' should function within its allottedfield and cannot encroach upon the rights of the people	 whocreated	 the  institutions.  It may not be out of  place  tosuggest	  to  the  appropriate	authority  to  make  a	 lawregulating  the	 powers, privileges and	 immunities  of	 theLegislature instead of keeping this branch of law in a nebu-lous state, with the result that a citizen will have to(1)  A.I.R. (1954) S.C. 636.882make a research into the unwritten law of the privileges  ofthe House of Commons at the risk of being called before	 theBar of the Legislature.The  said  conclusion  would be	 sufficient  to	 dispose  ofthis  petition.	  But as it was argued at  some	 length,  itwould be as well that I expressed my opinion on the questionof the existence and the extent -of the relevant  privilegesof  the	 House	of  Commons  at	 the  commencement  of	 theConstitution.  Before considering that question, it would beconvenient  to	notice	briefly	 the  scope  of	 a   Court'sjurisdiction to investigate the nature and the extent of theprivilege claimed by the House of Commons.  It is often saidthat  each House of Parliament is the sole judge of its	 ownprivileges.  But early in the history of British  Parliamentthe  question of the scope of that equivocal  statement	 wasraised	and it was contended that the  House's	jurisdictionwas  confined  only within the limits of the  privileges  asdefined by the Courts of Common Law.  The said question	 wasraised	and decided in Ashby v. White (1), Paty's Case	(2),Stockdale  v. Hansard (3) and in the Case of the Sheriff  ofMiddlesex(1).  In the said cases, the Common Law rights of acitizen	 were  threatened  by the House of  Commons  on	 theground	that the person concerned committed a breach of	 theprivilege  of  the  House.  The	 combined  effect  of  thesedecisions is that " the Courts deny to the Houses the  rightto determine the limits of their privileges, while  allowingthem within those limits exclusive jurisdiction " In Anson'sLaw  and Custom of the Constitution, the principle has	beenneatly stated, at page 190, thus:-" The Privileges of Parliament, like the prerogative of	 theCrown, are rights conferred by law, and as such their limitsare ascertainable and determinable, like the limits of otherrights,	 by  the Courts of Law." As  the  learned  SolicitorGeneral	 conceded  the	said legal  position,  it  would  beunnecessary  to	 pursue the matter further or  consider	 thedecisions in greater detail.The  main question, therefore, that falls to be	 decided  isthe existence and the extent of the privilege(1)  (1703) 2 Ld.  Raym. 938.(3)  (1839) 9 A. & F.(2)  (1704) 2 Ld.  Raym. 1105.(4)  (1840) 11 A, & E. 809.		 883claimed by the respondents.  As the privilege claimed by therespondents  is in derogation of the fundamental right of  acitizen,  the burden lies heavily upon them to establish  byclear  and  unequivocal evidence that the House	 of  Commonspossessed  such a privilege.  In the words of Coke " as	 theprivilege  is part of the law of custom of  the	 Parliament,they  must be collected out of the rolls of  Parliament	 andother  records and by precedent and continued experience  ".They can be found only in the Journals of the House compiledin the Journal Office from the manuscript minutes and  notesof  proceedings made by the clerks at the table	 during	 thesittings  of  the House.  Decided cases and  the  text-bookswould  also  help  us to ascertain  the	 privileges  of	 theHouses.	 The words " at the commencement of the Constitution" indicate that the privileges intended to be attracted	 arenot  of	 the  dark and difficult days,	when  the  House  ofCommons	 passed through strife and struggle, but only  thoseobtaining  in  1950,  when it was  functioning	as  a  modelLegislature  in	 a  highly  democratized  country.   In	 thecircumstance,  a  duty	is  cast  upon	the  respondents  toestablish   with  exactitude  that  the	 House	of   Commonspossessed  the	particular  privilege claimed  at  the	com-mencement of the Constitution.The  respondents claimed two privileges: (i) that the  Houseof  Commons has the privilege of preventing the	 publicationof  its proceedings ; and (ii) that it has the privilege  toprevent	 the  publication of that part	of  the	 proceedingsdirected  by the Speaker to be expunged.  Indeed the  secondprivilege  is  in fact comprehended by the first,  which  islarger in scope.A   history  of	 the  said  privilege  is  given  in   May'sParliamentary  Practice	 as well as in	Halsbury's  Laws  ofEngland.  In Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edition, Volume24 (Lord Hailsham's Edition), it is stated at pages  350-351as follows:It is within the power of either House of Parliament, shouldit  deem  it expedient, to prohibit the publication  of	 itsproceedings.In  the House of Lords, it is a breach of privilege for	 anyperson to print or publish anything relating to884the  proceedings of the House without its  permission.	 TheHouse  of  Commons, upon many occasions,  has  declared	 thepublication of its proceedings without the authority of	 theHouse  to be a breach of privilege, and the House has  neverformally rescinded the orders which from time to time it hasmade  with  regard to this subject.  At	 the  present  time,however,  neither  House  will	consider  a  report  of	 itsproceedings  in	 a newspaper or other publication  to  be  abreach	of its privileges, unless such report is  manifestlyinaccurate or untrue."At  page  350 in the foot-note (d) the history of  the	saidprivilege is given thus:-"  The jealousy of the House -of Commons with regard to	 theprivacy	 of its proceedings dates from the Long	 Parliament,and  was  due to the antagonism which existed  between	thatassembly and the King.	The object of the House at that timewas  to prevent its own members or officers  from  supplyingthe  King with information which might incriminate its	mem-bers;  see Resolutions of the House of Commons of  July	 13,1641 (Journals of the House of Commons, 1641, Vol.  II, page209).	It was not until -after the Revolution of 1689	thatthe  House  came in contact with  unofficial  reporters	 whofurnished,  for the news letters of the day, reports,  oftenprejudicial and generally inaccurate, of the proceedings  ofthe Commons.  In 1738 the House passed a resolution  statingthat  it was " an high indignity to, and a notorious  breachof privilege of, this House, for any news writer, in lettersor   other   papers  (as  minutes,  or	 under	 any   otherdenomination),	or  for	 any printer  or  publisher  of	 anyprinted newspaper of any denomination to insert in the	saidletters	 or  papers, or to give therein any account  of	 thedebates or other proceedings Of this House or any  committeethereof,  as  well  during the recess,	as  the	 sitting  ofParliament; and that this House will proceed with the utmostseverity  against such offenders (Journals of the  House  ofCommons,  1738, Vol.  XXIII, p. 148; Parliamentary  History,Vol.  X, pp. 799-811).	This resolution was repeated in 1753and 1762;  see Journals of the House of885Commons,  1753,	 Vol.  XXVI, p. 754; 1762, Vol.	  XXIX,	 pp.206,  207.   But,  in spite of the attitude  of	 the  House,unofficial  reports  of	 the proceedings  of  the  House  ofCommons	 were  still  published, and  in  1771,	 during	 thedisturbances  caused by John Wilkes, the claim of the  Houseto  forbid the publication of its debates led to a  strugglebetween	 the Commons and the City of London which,  althoughit resulted in the committal to prison of the Lord Mayor andtwo  alder. men, practically put an end to the	attempts  ofthe  House  of	Commons to prevent the	publication  of	 itsdebates."Much to the same effect it is stated in May's  ParliamentaryPractice: at page 54, the learned author, under the  heading" Right to control publication of Debates and  Proceedings",observes:" Closely' connected with the power to exclude strangers, soas  to	obtain, when necessary, such privacy as	 may  securefreedom of debate, is the right of either House to  prohibitthe publication of debates or proceedings.  The	 publicationof the debates of either House has been repeatedly  declaredto  be	a  breach of privilege,	 and  especially  false	 andperverted  reports of them; and no doubt can exist  that  ifeither	House desire to withhold their proceedings from	 thepublic,	  it  is  within  the  strictest  limits  of   theirjurisdiction to do so, and to punish any violation of  theirorders."After  tracing	the history of the privilege,  the  practiceobtaining in modern times is described thus:"  The	repeated  orders made by the  House  forbidding	 thepublication of the debates and proceedings of the House,  orof any committee thereof, and of comments thereon, or on theconduct of Members in the House, by newspapers, newsletters,or  otherwise,	and directing the  punishment  of  offendersagainst	 such  rules, have long since  fallen  into  disuse.Indeed,	 since	1909,  the debates have	 been  reported	 andissued by an official reporting staff under the authority ofMr.  Speaker,  and are sold to the public by  Her  Majesty'sStationery Office."The same idea is repeated at page 56 as follows:-886"  So  long  as the debates  are  correctly  and  faithfullyreported,  however,  the  privilege  which  prohibits  theirpublication is waived."At page 118, the same result is described in different wordsthus: "So  long  as	the debates  are  correctly  and  faithfullyreported,  the orders which prohibit their  publication	 arenot  enforced  ; but when they are reported mala  fide,	 thepublishers of newspapers are liable to punishment."Then   the  following  eight  instance	of  misconduct,	  inconnection  with the, publication of the debates   which  isgenerally treated as a breach of privilege of the House	 aregiven by the learned author :(i)  Publishing a false account of proceedings of the  Houseof Lords;(ii) Publishing	 scandalous  misrepresentation of  what	 hadpassed in either House or what had been said in debate;(iii)  Publishing  gross  or  wilful  misrepresentations  ofparticular Members, speeches;(iv) Publishing	 under	colour	of a report  of	 a  Member'sspeech a gross libel on the character and conduct of anotherMember;(v)  Suppressing speeches of particular Members(vi) Publishing	 a proceeding which the House of  Lords	 hadordered to the expunged from the journals;(vii)	  Publishing  a libel on counsel appearing before  acommittee  under  colour of a report of the  proceedings  ofsuch committee; and(viii)	Publishing  a  forged paper, publicly  sold  as	 HisMajesty's speech to both Houses.It  would  be seen from the instances that mala fides  is  anecessary  ingredient  of  the publication  to	attract	 thedoctrine  of privilege and that the instances given  are  ofthe  period between 1756 to 1893.  One of the  instances  onwhich  strong  emphasis	 is laid by  the  learned  SolicitorGeneral is the-publishing of a proceeding which the House ofLords  bad ordered to be expunged from the Journals.   Apartfrom  the fact that the instance in question relates to	 theHouse  of  Lords,  the Journal is not available	 for  us  toascertain887under  what circumstances the publication was  made  Furtherthe instance was of the year 1801 and no other instances  ofthat kind appear to have occurred from 1801 to 1950.  In thecircumstances,	on the authority of May, it may be  acceptedthat the House of Lords asserted the privilege in 1801	whenits  proceedings were published mala fide, though they	wereexpressly ordered to be expunged.Cockburn, C. J., in Wasan v. Walter(1) forcibly pointed	 outthe  irrelevance  of  the privilege claimed  in	 the  moderndemocratic  set up.  At page 89, the learned  Chief  Justiceobserved :" It seems to us impossible to doubt that it is of paramountpublic	and national importance that the proceedings of	 thehouses	of Parliament shall be communicated to	the  public,who have the deepest interest in knowing what passes  withintheir walls, seeing that on what is there said and done, thewelfare	 of  the  community depends.   Where  would  be	 ourconfidence  in	the  government of the	country	 or  in	 thelegislature  by	 which	our laws are framed,  and  to  whosecharge	the great interests of the country  are	 committed,-where  would  be our attachment to  the	 Constitution  underwhich  we live,-if the proceedings of the great	 council  ofthe  realm were shrouded in secrecy and concealed  from	 theknowledge  of  the nation ?  How  could	 the  communicationsbetween	  the  representatives	of  the	 people	 and   theirconstituents,  which are so essential to the working of	 therepresentative	system,	 be  usefully  carried	on,  if	 theconstituencies	 were  kept  in	 ignorance  of	what   theirrepresentatives	 are doing?  What would become of the  rightof  petitioning on all measures pending in  Parliament,	 theundoubted right of the subject, if the people are to be keptin  ignorance of what is passing ID either house?   Can	 anyman  bring  himself  to doubt that the	publicity  given  inmodern	times to what passes in Parliament is  essential  tothe  maintenance  of the relations  subsisting	between	 thegovernment,  the legislature, and the country at large ?  Itmay, no doubt, be said that, while it may be necessary as  amatter of national interest that the(1)  (1868) L.R. 4 Q.B. 73.888proceedings of Parliament should in general be made  public,yet  that debates in which the character of  individuals  isbrought into question ought to be suppressed.  But to  this,in  addition to the difficulty in which	 parties  publishingparliamentary  reports would be placed, if this	 distinctionwere  to be enforced and every debate had to  be  criticallyscanned	 to see whether it contained defamatory	 matter,  itmay be further answered that there is perhaps no subject  inwhich  the  public have a deeper interest than in  all	thatrelates	 to the conduct of public servants of the  State,-nosubject	 of parliamentary discussion which more requires  tobe made known than an inquiry relating to it".At  page  95,  dealing with the contention  based  upon	 theStanding Orders of both the Houses of Parliament prohibitingthe  publication  of  the  proceedings,	 the  learned  ChiefJustice proceeded to state as follows:"  The	fact, no doubt, is, that each  house  of  Parliamentdoes,  by its standing orders, prohibit the  publication  ofits debates.  But, practically, each house not only permits,but  also sanctions and encourages, the publication  of	 itsproceedings, and actually gives every facility to those	 whoreport them.  Individual members correct their speeches	 forpublication in Hansard or the public journals, and in  everydebate	reports	 of former speeches containing	therein	 areconstantly   referred	to.   Collectively,   as   well	  asindividually, the members of both houses would deplore as  anational  misfortune the withholding their debates from	 thecountry	 at large.  Practically speaking, therefore,  it  isidle   to   say	 that  the  publication	  of   Parliamentaryproceedings  is	 prohibited  by	 Parliament.   The  standingorders	which prohibit it are obviously maintained  only  togive  to each house the control over the publication of	 itsproceedings,  and the power of preventing or correcting	 anyabuse of the facility afforded."I  have	 given	the said passages in extenso  as  they	giveneatly and graphically not only the extent of the  privilegein  modern  times, but the reasons for and  the	 process  bywhich the larger concept of the privilege has been graduallyreduced to its present form.  These889are  weighty observations and, if they were  appropriate  tothe conditions obtaining in the 19th century, they would  bemore so in 1950, when the parliamentary system of governmentwas perfected in England.Jennings in his book on " The British Constitution states atpage 82 thus:"  All	this assumes, of course, that the House	 debates  inpublic.	 Government and Opposition speak to each other,	 butfor  the  education of the people.  The	 criticisms  broughtagainst	 the  Government  are  the  criticisms	of  ordinaryindividuals;  the  answers of the  Government  are  formallyanswers	 to  the  Opposition,  but  substantially  they	 arereplies to the questions raised in the factory, the  railwaycarriage  and  the  office.  The members  of  the  House  ofCommons	 were not elected for their special  qualifications,but because they supported the policies which the  majority,of their constituents were prepared to accept.	They have noauthority except as representatives, and in order that theirrepresentative	character may be preserved they must  debatein  public.  Secret sessions were suited to  the  oligarchicgovernment of the eighteenth century.  They are the negationof  democratic principles.  No doubt there  are	 exceptionaloccasions when secrecy is justified."This passage succinctly gives the principles underlying	 thedoctrine that in a democratic country, debates in Parliamentare  public and there should not be any prohibition  againstthe publication of the said debates.The  extent  of	 the privilege of the House  of	 Commons  inregard	to the publication of its proceedings may be  statedthus: In the seventeenth century, the House of Commons	madestanding   orders   prohibiting	 the  publication   of	 itsproceedings.   But that was a necessary precaution  in	thatcritical period when the representatives of the people	werein conflict with the crown and they were careful that  theirproceedings  should not reach the ear of the Crown.  In	 thearistocratic   eighteenth   century,   the   opposition	  topublication   was   founded  not  only	on   the   fear	  ofmisrepresentation,112890but  on impatience of the pressure of public  opinion.	 Butgradually  and imperceptibly, as a result of  conflicts	 andcompromises  and as Parliamentary form of government  becameperfect	 and broad based, not only publication	was  allowedbut  actually  encouraged by the House of Commons.   In	 theyear  1950,  it would be unthinkable and indeed	 would	havebeen  an extraordinary phenomenon for the House	 Of  Commonsclaiming the privilege of preventing the publication of	 itsproceedings.  The said orders, though not expressly repealedor  modified,  were no longer enforced	in  accordance	withtheir  tenor;  but were in effect modified by  practice	 andprecedents.   The  stringent part of the orders	 had  falleninto  disuse and in practice it was restricted to mala	fidepublication  of the proceedings. 1, therefore, hold that  inthe  year  1950, the House of Commons had  no  privilege  toprevent the publication of the correct add faithful  reportsof its proceedings save those in the case of secret sessionsheld under exceptional circumstances and had only a  limitedprivilege  to prevent mala fide publication of garbled,	 un-faithful or expunged reports of the proceedings.It  follows  from  my view, namely,  that  the	petitioner'sfundamental right under Art. 19(1) is preserved despite	 theprovisions  of	Art. 194(3) of the  Constitution,  that	 thepetitioner  is	entitled to succeed.  I am  further  of	 theopinion	 that  even  if	 Art.  194(3)  of  the	Constitutionexcludes the operation of Art. 19(1), the petitioner in	 thecircumstances  of the present case would not be in  a  worseposition.  That apart, the charge as disclosed either in thenotice served on the petitioner or in the enclosures annexedthereto	 does  not  impute any mala fide  intention  to	 thepetitioner.   The  notice only says that  the  Committee  ofPrivileges, on the basis of the publication of the news itemin  the	 " Searchlight ", found that a prima facie  case  ofbreach	 of  privilege	has  been  made	 out   against	 thepetitioner.  The resolution enclosed therein indicates	thatthe  petitioner committed a breach of privilege by  printingthe  expunged  portion of the speech  of  Maheshwara  PrasadNarayan	  Singh	 and  thereby  published  a  perverted	 andunfaithful report of the proceedings.  Other documents891enclosed  with	the notice contained a motion moved  in	 theHouse	by  another  member  charging  the  petitioner	 forpublishing   the  expunged  portion  of	 the  speech.	 Thepetitioner  in his petition states that till May 31, it	 wasnot known to any member of the staff of the " Searchlight ",including  the petitioner, that any portion of s the  debatein  question had been expunged from the official  record  ofthe  Assembly.	 Though	 in  the  official  record  of	 theproceedings,  portions	of  the speech	reported  have	beenexpunged, no order of the Speaker expunging any portions  ofthe  speech made on May 30, has been  produced.	  Admittedlythere	was  no	 order	of  the	 Speaker   prohibiting	 thepublication  of the expunged portion of the speech.  In	 thecounter-affidavit  filed  by the respondents, they  did	 notallege any mala fides to the petitioner but they took  theirstand on the fact that the Legislature had the privilege  ofpreventing the petitioner from publishing the expunged	por-tion  of  the  speech.	In the	circumstances,	neither	 thenotice	nor the documents enclosed with the notice  disclosethat  the  petitioner published the  speech,  including	 theexpunged portion mala fide, or even with the knowledge	thatany portion of the speech was directed to be expunged.	As Ihave  pointed  out,  the Legislature has  the  privilege  ofpreventing only mala fide publication of the proceedings  ofthe  Legislature and, as in this case the petitioner is	 notalleged	 to  have done so, the Legislature has no  power  totake any action in respect of the said publication.In  the	 result,  the  petition	 is  allowed.	A  Writ	  ofProhibition  will  issue restraining  the  respondents	fromproceeding against the petitioner for the alleged breach  ofprivilege by publishing in the issue of the " Searchlight ",dated  May 31, 1957, an account of the debate of  the  House(Legislative Assembly, Bihar) of May 30, 1957.		    ORDERIn  view  of the judgment of the majority, the	petition  isdismissed.  There will be no order as to costs.892