PETITIONER:NARAIN AND TWO OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJABDATE OF JUDGMENT:04/12/1958BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR  484		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 724 CITATOR INFO : R	    1977 SC 472	 (23)ACT:       Criminal Trial-Material witness, who is-Failure to  examine-       Effect	of-If  amounts	to  rejection  of   evidence-Indian       Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), s. 167.HEADNOTE:Several persons attacked and seriously injured one M.  Afterassaulting  him the assailants were carrying him  away	whenM's  brother R came to rescue him and in self  defence	shotdead  one  of the assailants and carried M  away.   For	 theassault	 on M eight persons, including the appellants,	weretried for offences under(1)  (1862) C.P. 12 C.B.N.S. 161; (1862)133 R.R. 311.			    725ss.  148, 307 and 364 both read with ss. 140 and 34  Of	 theIndian Penal Code.  At the trial R was cited as a witness bythe  prosecution,  but R refused to give  evidence  claimingprotection under Art. 20 Of the Constitution.  The  Sessionsjudge upheld R's objection and the prosecution gave him	 -upas  a  witness.	 After trial, the Sessions  judge  acquittedfour  of  the accused but convicted the appellants  and	 oneother	person.	  In  appeal  before  the  High	 Court	 theappellants  urged  that	 the Sessions  judge  was  wrong  inholding that R was entitled to the protection of Art. 2o andthat  the  trial was vitiated by this decision	whereby	 theaccused	 had been deprived of the benefit of  R's  evidence.The High Court was of the view that if R had been  compelledto give evidence he would not have supported the prosecutionbut  whatever he would have stated would not  have  rebuttedthe  convincing	 testimony of the other witnesses  and	thattherefore the failure to examine R did not in any way affectthe   ultimate	decision  of  the  case.   The	High   Courtapparently  had s. 167 Of the Evidence Act in view.  In	 theresult	 the  High  Court  upheld  the	 convictions.	 Theappellants appealed and contended that the view of the	HighCourt was not justified by s. 167 and that the trial was notfair as R, a material witness, had been kept out of Court.Held, that the trial was not vitiated by the failure of	 theprosecution to examine R as a witness.	Section 167 did	 nothelp  the appellants as it was not a case in which  evidencecould  be said to have been rejected within the	 meaning  ofthat section.  Further, R was not a witness material to	 theprosecution  inasmuch as he arrived on the scene  after	 theassault	  was  over  and  it  was  not	necessary  for	 theprosecution to examine him to ensure a fair trial.  Where  amaterial  witness  has been deliberately  or  unfairly	keptback,  a serious reflection is cast on the propriety of	 thetrial  and the validity of the conviction resulting from  itmay  be	 open to challenge.  The test whether a	 witness  ismaterial is whether he is essential to the unfolding of	 thenarrative on which the prosecution is based and not  whetherhe would have given evidence in support of the defence.Habeeb	Mohammad  v. The State of Hyderabad,  [1954]  S.C.R.475; Stephen Seneviratne v. The King, A.I.R. 1936 P.C. 289.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 186 of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  18,  1955, of the Punjab High	 Court	in  CriminalAppeals	 Nos.  389  and	 406 of 1954,  arising	out  of	 thejudgment and order dated June 16, 1954, of the Court of	 theAdditional Sessions Judge, Ferozepur, in Sessions Case No. 5of 1954 and Trial No. 5 of 1954.726Jai   gopal Sethi, Vidya Dhar Mahajan and K. L.	 Arora,	 forthe appellants.N.S.  Bindra,  B.  H.  Dhebar and  T.  M.  Sen,	 for  therespondent.1958.	December 4. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySARKAR, J.-Eight persons were tried ::or offences under	 ss.148, 307 and 364 both read with ss. 149 and 34 of the IndianPenal  Code, by the Additional Ses. sions Judge,  Ferozepur.The  learned Sessions Judge acquitted four of  the  accused,namely,	 Het Ram, Teja Ram, Manphul and Surja Ram as he	 didnot  think  that their presence at the occurrence  had	beenproved beyond reasonable doubt.	 He convicted the  remainingfour, namely, Narain, Jot Ram, Gheru and Jalu under ss.	 307and  364 read with s. 34.  He sentenced Narain, Jot Ram	 andGheru to rigorous imprisonment for three years under s.	 307and two years under s. 364.  He sentenced Jalu to two years'rigorous imprisonment under each section.  On appeal by	 theconvicted  persons the High Court of Punjab  maintained	 theconvictions but reduced the sentences passed on Jot Ram	 andGheru  to one year's rigorous imprisonment and Jalu  to	 theterm  of imprisonment already undergone.  It maintained	 thesentence passed on Narain and dismissed his appeal.  Narain,Jot  Ram  and Gheru have appealed To this  Court  from	thatjudgment.The  prosecution case is that one Sultan was the  proprietorof  a  field described in the proceedings as  plot  No.	 97.Sahi  Ram had been a tenant of the land.  The land  had	 notbeen  cultivated in the year preceding the  occurrence	withwhich  this  case is concerned and the owner  had  thereuponresumed possession of it.  On June 14, 1953, Mani Ram a	 sonof  the	 proprietor,  arrived  at the  field  on  a  tractoraccompanied  by	 a Tabourer, Moola Ram, with the  object  ofPloughing  it and found Sahi Ram actually  ploughing.	ManiRam  turned  Sahi Ram out of the field.	 Sahi Ram  raised  aprotest	 but  eventually left abandoning his plough  on	 thefield.	Mani Ram then began to plough the field			    727with  his  tractor.  A little later  the  tractor  developedmechanical  trouble  and  Mani	Ram  stopped  ploughing	 andstarted	 attending  to it.  While Mani Ram was	so  engaged,Sahi  Ram arrived at the spot accompanied by seven  persons,being the accused earlier named other than Narain, variouslyarmed.	 Jalu had come on a horse.  They fell upon Mani	 Ramand assaulted him.  Moola Ram who ran to his rescue was alsoassaulted.   Moola Ram then attempted to run away  whereuponSahi  Ram and his party chased him.  While Sahi Ram and	 hisparty  had their attention on Moola Ram, Mani Ram  got	intohis tractor and began to drive away from the field.  At thispoint  of time Narain arrived on a horse with a gun  in	 hishand.  He told the pursuers of Moola Ram to leave him as  hewas merely a hired man and pointed out that the real culpritMani Ram was about to escape in the tractor.  The party thenturned round and pursued Mani Ram.  Narain on his horse soonovertook Mani Ram and fired at him while he was still on thetractor	 in the driver's seat.	Mani Ram fell down from	 thetractor which, being in motion, proceeded on its own and raninto  a tree and stopped.  Narain's horse fell	against	 thecultivator of the tractor and was injured.  Mani Ram  pickedhimself	 up  and staggered for shelter into the hut  of	 oneMukh  Ram, which was nearby.  The pursuers then came up	 andJot  Ram fired a shot at Mani Ram inside the hut and so	 didGheru.	 Mani  Ram  fell down in the hut.   Mukh  Ram  threwhimself	 on the body of Mani Ram to protect him.  Gheru	 andNarain then said that they would burn the hut with Mani	 Raminside	it.  Sahi Ram suggested that it would be  better  tocarry  Mani Ram to their house and there kill him  and	burnhis  body.  Mukh Ram 'was then dragged away and	 Mani  Ram'sbody was put on a horse and Jalu mounted it.  The party thenproceeded towards the village by a foot path with Mani	Ram,who was then unconscious, as their captive.  After they	 hadgone some distance Raghbir, the younger brother of Mani Ram,having	heard of the incident came to rescue Mani  Ram.	  Hemet  Jalu  on the horse with Mani Ram and Sahi	Ram  walkingclose behind,728the rest of the party being at some distance.  Raghbir askedJalu to put down Mani Ram on which Jalu threatened to  kill,and  Sahi.  Ram pointed his sela at Raghbir.   Raghbir	thenshot  at  Sahi Ram with the pistol he was carrying  and	 thelatter	fell  down and died soon after.	 Jalu  got  off	 thehorse and ran away.  Before the others could arrive  Raghbircarried	 Mani Ram to the house of one Birbal from where	 he,was later taken to the hospital.The  defence was that the prosecution case was wholly  falseand  the  real	facts were as follows: On the  date  of	 theoccurrence  Sahi Ram was ploughing the field when  Mani	 Ramand Raghbir came there and tried to stop him.  There was  analtercation.   Jot Ram and Gheru who were in a field  nearbycame up and advised Sahi Ram not to dispute over the  matterwith  Mani Ram but have it decided by Panchayat.  Sahi	Ram,Jot Ram and Gheru then left the field and proceeded  towardsthe village.  While going Jot Ram noticed that Sahi Ram	 wascarrying  a pistol and took it away from him to prevent	 himfrom using it in his excitement.  Mani Ram and Raghbir	alsowent towards the village but by a different route.  The par.ties again met at the village Shamlat.	Raghbir abused	SahiRam  and fired a shot at him killing him outright.  Jot	 Ramapprehending that he might also be shot at, fired the pistolwhich he had taken from Sahi Ram and might have injured ManiRam.   There were two unknown persons with Raghbir and	ManiRam  at this time and they also used their fire arms.	ManiRam  might have received injuries from these  firings  also.The accused denied that any of them except Jot Ram and Gheruwere present at the incident.There  were  thus  two	conflicting  versions  of  the	sameincident  and  there  were two cross cases  based  on  theseseparate  versions.  We are concerned with the case  startedon  the	 complaint of Mani Ram and concerning  the  injuriessuffered  by  him  and his abduction.  The  other  case	 wasagainst	 Mani Ram, Raghbir, Sultan and Dalip also a  son  ofSultan	and  was based on what the defence  version  of	 theincident in the present case was.  In that case Raghbir	 andMani			    729Ram were charged under s. 302 read with s. 34 of the  IndianPenal  Code  for  having caused the death of  Sahi  Ram	 andSultan and Dalip were charged under s. 302 read with s.	 109of the same Code in the same connection.The  learned  Sessions	Judge  who  heard  both	 the  cases,acquitted Mani Ram, Raghbir, Sultan and Dalip of the chargesbrought	 against them and convicted the appellants and	Jaluin the present case accepting the prosecution version of theincident.   As	we have earlier stated, the  conviction	 wasupheld by the High Court.In  view  of the concurrent findings of fact in	 the  Courtsbelow,	the  learned Advocate for  the	appellants  confinedhimself	 in  this Court to a question of law  which  we	 nowproceed	 to  discuss.  It has to be remembered that  we	 areconcerned  only	 with the case in which the  appellants	 hadbeen  tried for offences against Mani Ram.  With  the  othercase we are not concerned.In  the trial Court, the prosecution had cited Raghbir as  awitness.  Raghbir however refused to give evidence  claimingprotection  under Art. 20 of the Constitution.	The  learnedSessions  Judge held that Raghbir could not be compelled  togive  evidence	and rejected the contention of	the  accusedthat he was not entitled to the protection.  The prosecutionin  the end did not offer Raghbir as a witness	and  droppedhim.When the matter came up before the High Court in appeal,  itwas  said  on  behalf of the appellants,  that	the  learnedSessions  Judge	 was  wrong  in	 holding  that	Raghbir	 wasentitled to the protection of Art. 20 and that the trial hadbeen  vitiated	by this decision as a result  of  which	 theaccused	 had  been  deprived of	 the  benefit  of  Raghbir'sevidence.The  High Court however held that the fact that Raghbir	 wasnot  examined did not vitiate the trial in any way.   It  isthis  part  of	the  High  Court  judgment  that  has	beenchallenged  before  us	by  the	 learned  Advocate  for	 theappellants.   The High Court observed as follows: "  We	 mayassume that Raghbir would92730not  have supported the prosecution story or that  he  wouldhave admitted to having shot Sahi Ram.	The fact that he wasunwilling  to  make  a	statement  does	 not  constitute  anirregularity  in  the trial.  Had he been compelled  to	 saysomething,  he would, in all probability, not have told	 thetruth,	and  the question is how the case  would  have	beenaffected  by  his statement?  In my view,  whatever  he	 hadstated	would not have rebutted the convincing testimony  ofthe other witnesses in the case and therefore the failure ofthe  Court  to examine him does not in any  way	 affect	 theultimate decision of the case."The  learned Advocate contended that the High Court  had  inview the provisions of s. 167 of the Evidence Act though thesection was not in terms referred.  We think this is a	fairview to take.  The learned Advocate said that what the	HighCourt  has done is to say that even assuming that  Raghbir'sevidence  did not support the prosecution story, that  wouldnot  have made any difference to the result, because,  what-ever  he  stated  would not  have  rebutted  the  convincingtestimony of the other witnesses.  According to the  learnedAdvocate,  this view was not justified by s. 167.  It  seemsto  us that the expression of the opinion of the High  Courton  this matter has not been happily worded.   The  questionunder  s. 167 is not so much whether the  evidence  rejectedwould not have been accepted against the other testimony  onthe  record  as whether that evidence " ought  not  to	havevaried	the decision." It is clear that if what Raghbir	 hadsaid  in  his  evidence	 had gone  to  support	the  defenceversion, then a, serious question would arise as to  whetherthe decision of the trial Court would have been in favour ofthe accused instead of against them, as it happened to be.It  seems  to  us  however that s. 167	does  not  help	 theappellants.   It  is clear from the record that	 the  prose-cution,	 though it had cited Raghbir as a witness,  was	 notvery  keen  to	examine him When Raghbir  objected  to	giveevidence,  the prosecution dropped him.	 Therefore it  seemsto us that this is not a case in which evidence can be	saidto have been rejected731within s. 167 of the Evidence Act.  The prosecution did	 notin  fact tender Raghbir as a witness.  Nor have we any	ideaas to what he would have said had he given evidence.  Nor isit a case where the defence wanted to call him as a witness.It  is	not  necessary for us, nor have we  been  asked,  todecide the question whether Raghbir was entitled under	Art.2o  of the Constitution to refuse to give evidence.   It  isamply  clear  from the record that the prosecution  did	 notoffer  him as a witness upon his claiming  protection  underArt.  20.   The	 learned Advocate for  the  appellants	thenargued that in this view of the matter, it must be held thata  material  witness  had  been kept out  of  court  by	 theprosecution and that would give rise to an adverse inferenceagainst the prosecution case and cast serious reflection  onthe  fairness  of the trial.  We were  referred	 by  learnedAdvocate to Habeeb Mohammad v. The State of Hyderabad (1) inthis  connection.  We agree that if a material	witness	 hasbeen  deliberately  or unfairly kept back,  then  a  seriousreflection is cast on the propriety of the trial itself	 andthe validity of the conviction resulting from it may be opento challenge,The question then is, was Raghbir a material witness ? It isan  accepted  rule as stated by the  Judicial  Committee  inStephen	 Seneviratne  v.  The  King  (2)  that	"  witnessesessential  to  the unfolding of the narrative on  which	 theprosecution  is	 based, must, of course, be  called  by	 theprosecution."  It  will	 be seen that  the  test  whether  awitness	 is material for the present purpose is not  whetherhe would have given evidence in support of the defence.	 Thetest is whether he is a witness " essential to the unfoldingof  the narrative on which the prosecution is based ".	Whe-ther  a	 witness  is so essential or  not  would  depend  onwhether	 be could speak to any part of the prosecution	caseor  whether  the  evidence  led disclosed  that	 he  was  sosituated  that he would have been able to give	evidence  ofthe  facts  on	which the prosecution  relied.	 It  is	 nothowever that the prosecution is bound to call all  witnesseswho may have seen the occurrence and(1) [1954] S.C.R. 475.(2) A.I.R. (1936) P.C. 289.732so  duplicate  the  evidence.  But  apart  from	 this,.	 theprosecution should call all material witnesses.Was Raghbir then a witness essential to the unfolding of theprosecution  case  ?  That clearly  Raghbir  was  not.	 Theprosecution  case, as we have seen, was concerned  with	 theinjuries caused to Mani Ram and his abduction.	According tothe  prosecution case, Raghbir arrived after these  offenceshad  been committed ; after Mani Ram had been assaulted	 andshot  at and after he had been put on a horse and  had	beencarried some distance.	The prosecution no doubt admits thatRaghbir	 shot  Sahi  Ram but says that he  did	so  in	selfdefence.   This incident is an entirely	 separate  incident.It  is	not  necessary to prove it in  order  to  prove	 theoffences  with which the appellants were  charged.   Raghbirtherefore  was not a witness whom the prosecution was  boundto  call  to establish its case.  The fact, assuming  it  tohave  been so, that Raghbir would have said in his  evidencethat the incidents did not happen as the prosecution stated,may no doubt have established a good defence.  But if it wasso, then he would have been only a witness material for	 thedefence and not a witness essential to the unfolding of	 thenarrative  on  which  the prosecution case  is	based.	 Theprosecution is not bound to call witnesses to establish	 thedefence but only witnesses who are material for proving	 itsown  case.  Indeed, since according to the prosecution	caseRaghbir	 arrived after the alleged offences were  committed,he  could not have given any evidence about the	 prosecutioncase.	We,  therefore,	 think that the	 contention  of	 thelearned	 Advocate  for the Appellants that  the	 prosecutionshould have called Raghbir to ensure a fair trial or that hewas   a	 witness  material  to	the  prosecution  case,	  isunfounded.   We do not think that the trial has at all	beenvitiated by the failure to call Raghbir.  It may be  pointedout that the appellants had not sought to produce Raghbir asa witness on their behalfThe  learned Advocate then addressed us on the	question  ofthe sentence passed on Narain.	He said that the High  Courtpassed a higher sentence on him733because	 it was under the impression that he had caused	 theonly grievous injury that was found on the body of Mani Ram.The learned Advocate pointed out that there was no  evidenceto show that the grievous injury had been caused by  Narain.It seems to us that this contention is justified.  There  ishowever	 evidence  to show that Narain	merited	 the  highersentence.   It was he who directed the attack  against	ManiRam.  He called the other members of the attacking party  todesist	from  pursuing Moola Ram as Mani Ram  was  the	realenemy and should be dealt with.	 It is upon that the seriousinjuries  on Mani Ram came to be inflicted.  We,  therefore,think  that  the higher sentence imposed  on  the  appellantNarain was justified.No other question arises in this appeal.The result is that the appeal fails and is dismissed.			       Appeal dismissed.