PETITIONER:RATHOD BHIMJIBHAI MASRUBHAI RAJPUT AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:07/12/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1960 AIR  438		  1960 SCR  (2) 393ACT:Taluqdari  Tenure-Abolition of-" Lal-liti "  lands-Liabilityfor  land revenue-Taluqdari  lands--Taluqdari  Estate-BombayLand  Revenue Code, 1879 (Bom. V of 1879), s.  136(1)-GujratTaluqdars'  Act, 1888 (Bom.  VI of 1888), ss. 4, 5, 22,	 31-Bombay	Taluqdari Tenure Abolition Act, 1949 (Bom.  LXII  of1949), ss.2(3), (4), 3, 5(1)(a),(b), 5(2)(a) 17(c).HEADNOTE:The  appellants who were holders of certain lands  known  asLal-liti  "  lands were assessed to land revenue  under	 theprovisions of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, after	 theBombay	Taluqdari  Tenure Abolition Act, 3 1949,  came	intoforce.	 "Lal-liti  "  lands  were  granted  originally	  byTaluqdars  in  Gujrat to cadets, widows of  the	 family	 andrelations  for	maintenance  and  to  village  servants	 andothers,	  either   in  reward  for  past  services   or	  asremuneration  for  services  to be  performed.	 Before	 theestablishment of British rule, Taluqdars had the position ofsemi-independent chiefs, but subsequent to the establishmentof  British  rule  they became mere  owners  of	 proprietaryestates	 holding  lands	 directly from	Government,  and  inrespect	 of such estates the Gujrat Taluq dars'	 Act,  1888,was passed providing for their revenue administration.	 Theappellants claimed that these lands had been enjoyed withoutpayment of any " jama " since pre-British times and that theexemption  from payment of land revenue was not affected  bythe  Bombay Taluqdari Tenure Abolition Act, 1949.  The	HighCourt  took  the  view	that the lands	were  liable  to  beassessed  under s. 5 of that Act.  It was contended for	 theappellants,  inter  alia, that no liability for	 payment  ofland  revenue in respect of " Lal-liti " lands	could  ariseunder s. 5 of the Act, because (1) the Taluqdar retained  nointerest  in such lands after the grant	 and,  consequently,such lands were not taluqdari lands within the meaning of s.2(3)  of the Act, (2) clause (a) of S. 5(1) of the  Act	 wasmerely declaratory,394while  cl.  (b) was the operative clause by which  the	onlypersons	 liable	 for  payment of land  revenue	were  (i)  ataluqdar holding    any taluqdari land and (ii) a cadet of ataluqdari   family  holding	 any  taluqdari	  land	 formaintenance,   and  (3)	 even  assuming	 thatcl.  (a)	madetaluqdari lands liable to the payment of land revenue Code,a  " Lal-liti " holder could not be made liable, because  hewas  not an occupant of unalienated land within the  meaningof s.	  136(1) of the Code.Held:(1)  that having regard to the history of	"  Lal-liti lands and the provisions of the Gujrat Taluqdar's	Act,1888,  such lands are lands which form part of	a  taluqdariestate,	 even  though no " jama " was actually paid  to	 thetaluqdar  or  to Government, and are,  therefore,  taluqdarilands within the meaning of s. 2(3) of the Bombay  TaluqdariAbolition Act, 1949;(2)that	 cl.  (a)  of  S. 5(1)	of  the	 Bombay	 TaluqdariAbolition Act was a general provision and applied the BombayLand Revenue Code to all taluqdari lands, while cl. (b)	 wasa  particular deeming Provision with regard to the  taluqdarand his cadet and(3)that whatever might have been the position of a "  Lal-liti  "	 holder earlier, on the abolition of  the  Taluqdaritenure	by the Bombay Taluqdari Abolition Act, he  became  aholder in actual possession of land in respect of which	 theGovernment had not transferred its rights to the payment  ofrevenue, wholly or partially,to the ownership of any person.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.327 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 31,1955, of the Bombay High Court, in Special  CivilApplication No. 1100 of 1954.V.   M. Limaye, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji and RameshwarNath, for the appellants.N.   P.	 Nathwani,  K. L. Hathi and R. H.  Dhebar,  for	 therespondent.1959.-	December 7. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS. E. Das J.	   S. K. DAS J.-This is an appeal by specialleave  from  a decision of the High Court of  Bombay,  datedJanuary	 31, 1955, by which it dismissed with costs  a	writapplication  (No.  1100	 of 1954) made	by  the	 petitionerstherein,  who are now appellants before us.  It	 raises	 forconsideration and decision a land revenue			    395problem	  of  some  complexity,	 which	resulted  from	 theenactment  of  the Bombay Taluqdari  Tenure  Abolition	Act,1949, (Bombay Act LXII of 1949), hereinafter referred to  asthe  Abolition	Act.   The problem  is	if  the	 appellants,holders	 of  certain lands known as "Lalliti  "	 lands,	 areliable to the State Government concerned for payment of landrevenue	 under	the provisions of the  Bombay  Land  RevenueCode,  1879 (Bombay Act V of 1879), hereinafter referred  toas the Revenue Code' after the enforcement of the provisionsof the Abolition Act.The  problem has to be considered in the light.	 of  certainincidents of taluqdari tenures in the Ahmedabad district  ofGujrat, with special reference to the changes through  whichthose  tenures	had  gone  in the  past	 by  legislation  orotherwise.   For  the  purposes of this	 appeal	 it  is	 notnecessary  to  give a full history of taluqdari	 estates  inGujrat;	 but it is necessary to explain what is meant  by  "Lal-liti  lands.  We get from such books  as  Baden-Powell'sLand-systems of British India " and Dandekar's " The law  ofLand  Tenure in the Bombay Presidency ", from both of  whichlearned	 counsel  for the parties  have	 extensively  quotedbefore us, a short history of the Taluqdars of Gujrat and oftheir  estates.	  Shortly  stated,  the	 history  is   this:Taluqdars of Gujrat (they were not known as Taluqdars  then,because	 the name was given much later) originally  occupiedthe  position  of  Chiefs or Rulers.  This  was	 before	 theMahomedan  rule	 in  Gujrat.  When  the	 Mahomedans  invadedGujrat, they found the country partitioned out into  estatesof large or small Chiefs, whom they forcibly deprived of allbut  one-fourth of their possess ions, and the portion	thusleft took the name of 'wanta' (divided).  Some 'wantas' werefree  of payment of pent or revenue; other  'wanta'  estatespaid  a	 tribute in the shape of an " udhad  jama  "  (fixedsum).	After the Moguls came the Marathas.   The  accessionand   domination  of  the  Marathas  made   no	 substantialdifference to the position of these semi-independent chiefs,except	that  the annual payments varied under	the  Maratharule.  Then came the British, who for sometime continued396to   realise  annual  payments	according  to  past   years;but  very  soon	 a significant change  took  place  and	 thenature	 of  the  payment  was	 altered,  and	instead	  oftribute, the Government assumed it to be rent or  revenue.The rent or revenue was also increased by about 50 per cent.and the result was that the holders	of these lands	fellinto pecuniary embarrassment and   became  impoverished	 andneedy.	A system of annual leases was then introduced:	thisremedy,	 however, proved worse than the disease, and it	 wassought	 to  improve  the'position  of	the   Taluqdars	  bylegislation it is not necessary for our purpose to refer  tothe  details of that legislation till we come to the  GujratTaluqdars'  Act, 1888 (Bombay Act VI of f888), -which was  alandmark in the history of Taluqdari tenures. We shall	haveoccasion  later to refer to some of the provisions  of	thisAct.   It is sufficient to state here that by the  time	 theaforesaid Act was passed the Taluqdars of certain  districtsof Gujrat including Ahmedabad had really become mere  ownersof  proprietary	 estates,  who	held  lands  directly	fromGovernment,and the Act provided, inter alia, for the revenueadministration	of their estates.  Under the  provisions  ofthe  Act,  the Settlement Registers were prepared  for	eachvillage, which served the purpose of the Record of Rights inthose estates.	In these estates, large areas of lands	weregranted presumably by the Taluqdars to cadets, widows of thefamily,	 and  relations	 for  maintenance,  and	 to  villageservants  and others, either in reward for past services  oras  remuneration for services to be performed.	The  holdersof  these  transferred lands paid no revenue either  to	 theTaluqdar or to Government generally.  These grants fell into three	categories: (i) those made prior to British  rule  ;(ii)  those made between 1818 and 1888, that is,  after	 theintroduction  of British rule and before the passing of	 theGujrat	Taluqdars'  Act, 1888 ; and (iii) those	 made  after1888.	The lands thus transferred were called " Lal-liti  "lands  because	they  were recorded inred  ink	in  the	 old'faisal patrakas' and in the Settlement Registers also, theywere recorded in red ink but were shown as subject to " jama(land revenue)397liabilities of varying character.  The pre-British transferswere recognised by Mr. Peile (later Sir James Peile) who wasthe  Taluqdari Settlement Officer  1866, and the  holders ofthese  lands  generally	 paid no "  jama  ".  The  1818-1888transfers  were	 those	which  were  not  so  recognised  byprescription, and when these lands reverted to the Taluqdar,they  became his ordinary lands liable to payment of  full."jama  ".  The post Act grants were covered by s. 31  of	 theGujrat	Taluqdars' Act, 1888 (see in this connection  "	 TheLand  Problems	of Re-organised Bombay State by	 Dr.  G.  D.Patel, pp. 174-175).Such,  in brief, is the history of Taluqdari estates  and  "Lal-liti  " lands, so far as that history has a	 bearing  onthe  problem  before us.  It is necessary now to  state	 thefacts which have given rise to the present appeal.  In theirwrit  petition to the High Court, the appellants  said	thatthey  were holders of " Lal-liti " lands in villages  Kharadand  Rajka of the Dhanduka taluq of Ahmedabad  district	 andwere  enjoying	the lands without payment of any  "  jama  "(land  revenue)	 since	the  pre-British  rule,	 though	 thecircumstances in which their predecessors originally got thelands are lost in antiquity.  They said inter alia that	 theexemption  from payment of land revenue which they  had	 allalong  enjoyed was not affected by the Abolition Act  or  byany  later  legislation	 like  the  Bombay  Personal   InamsAbolition Act, 1952 (Bombay Act LXII of 1953), and that	 thedemand	for  payment  of  land revenue	made  by  the  StateGovernment  of	Bombay for 1950-1953 was not  authorised  bylaw.  In the alternative, they also said that they were	 notliable to any assessment of land revenue till August,  1953.Accordingly, they prayed for appropriate writs (a)  quashingthe  demands for payment of land revenue and  (b)  directingthe  State  of Bombay, the Collector of	 Ahmedabad  and	 theRevenue Officer of Dhanduka (who are now respondents  beforeus), to forbear from taking any steps to enforce payment  ofland  revenue  for the " Lal-liti " lands held by  them.   Anumber	of similar applications, presumably filed  by  otherholders	 of "Lal-liti" lands, were also pending in the	HighCourt,51398So far as we can gather from the record before us,     therewere   three   sets   of  such	 applications.	  The	Highcourt delivered its leading judgment on writ application No.1098  of 1954 and the application of the  appellants  herein(No.  1100 of 1954) was dismissed with costs on the  groundsgiven  in  the	leading judgment.  The High  Court  held  ineffect that the holders of  " Lal-liti " lands were  liableto payment of land revenue under s. 5 of the Abolition	Act,read  with  the	 provisions of the  Revenue  Code,  and	 theobjections raised thereto, on their behalf were not  legallyvalid.	Having been unsuccessful in their application for  acertificate under Article 133(1)(c) of the Constitution, theappellants applied for and obtained special leave from	thisCourt  on  June 29, 1955.  They then preferred	the  presentappeal.Learned	 counsel  for  the  appellants	has  challenged	 thecorrectness  of	 the decision of the High Court	 on  variousgrounds.  It will be convenient to take these one by one.The first point urged is that the relevant provisions of theAbolition Act do not apply to " Lal-liti " lands, which	 arenot " taluqdari lands " within the meaning of the  AbolitionAct,  and,  therefore,	no liability  for  payment  of	landrevenue in respect of " Lal-liti " lands can arise under  s.5  thereof.   At  this	stage, we  must	 read  the  relevantprovisions   of	 the  Abolition	 Act.	The  expressions   "Taluqdari land " and " Taluqdari tenure " are defined in  s.2, clauses (3) and (4):Section 2 :..............................."  (1 )..........................(lA)........................(2).......................................(3)    '  Taluqdari  land'  means land	forming	 part  of  ataluqdari  estate  and includes land forming  part  of	suchestate	and held by a cadet of a taluqdar's family  for	 thepurpose of maintenance;(4)  '	Taluqdari  tenure' means land tenure  on  which	 thetaluqdari land is heldSection 3 states:"  With	 effect from the date on which this Act	 comes	intoforce			    399(i)the taluqdari tenure shall wherever it prevails be deemedto have been abolished;(ii)save as expressly provided by or under the provisions ofthis Act, all the incidents of the said tenure attaching  toany land comprised in a taluqidari estate shall be deemed tohave been extinguished "Section	 5, which is of great importance for the purpose  ofthis appeal, read as follows before it was amended in 1953.Section 5 (1) " Subject to the provisions of subsection (2),(a)all	taluqdari  lands  are and shall	 be  liable  to	 thepayment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions ofthe Code and the rules made there- under,    and(b)a taluqdar holding any taluqdari land or a cadet    of  ataluqdari  family  any taluqdari land hereditarily  for	 thepurpose	 of maintenance immediately before the	coming	intoforce of this Act, shall be deemed to be an occupant  withinthe meaning of the Code or any other law for the time  beingin force.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to affect-(a)the right of any person to hold any taluqdari land whollyor  partially  exempt  from payment of	land  revenue  underspecial contract or any law for the time being in force;(b)the	right of any person to pay Jama under any  agreementor  settlement	recognised  under  section  23	or  under  adeclaration  made under section 22 of the Taluqdars' Act  solong as such agreement, settlement or declaration remains inforce under the provisions of this Act."Now, the argument on behalf of the appellants has  proceededon  the	 following  lines;  learned  counsel  for  them	 hassubmitted that the expression " Taluqdari land " is  definedas  land  forming  part	 of  a	taluqdari  estate;  but	 theexpression  " taluqdari estate" is not defined,	 though	 theexpression  "  Taluqdari  tenure "  is	defined;  therefore,taluqdari estate can only mean,400such  land  or	estate	in  which  the	taluqdar  has	somesubsisting interest; but in " Lal-liti " lands, at least  ofthe  taluqdar  retains	no interest after  the	grant,	and,therefore,  " Lal-liti " land is not taluqdari	land  withinthe  meaning of s. 5 of the Abolition Act.  We have  now  toconsider the soundness of this line of argument.In the High Court as also before us an attempt was  made  onbehalf	of  the respondents to establish that  the  taluqdarretained  a reversionary right to " Lalliti " lands in	casethe  holder  died  without any heir.  The  High	 Court	saidrightly in our opinion, that on the materials placed  beforeit,   it  could	 not  be  said	that  the  respondents	 hadestablished  that position.  The High Court then  consideredthe  meaning of the expression ' taluqdari estate' and	saidthat  it  was  used  in a  descriptive	sense  and  was	 notequivalent  to the expression 'Taluqdar'sestate'.  Said	 theHigh Court:"  Therefore,  the  expression " Taluqdari  estate  "  is  acomprehensive  expression including all lands which  at	 onetime  belonged	to  the Taluqdar.  In the eye  of  the	law,although  the  lands  might  have  been	 alienated  by	 theTaluqdar,  they still form part of the	estate.	  Therefore,the expression is more an expression indicating a particulartenure	rather	than a particular interest  enjoyed  by	 theTaluqdar . ................................................. ........................................................... ........................................................... ............... Therefore, if the lands, the subject matterof the petition did at any time belong to the Taluqdar whichhe  subsequently  alienated, they would be  covered  by	 thedefinition  in	the Act of 1949, not withstanding  the	factthat when the Act was passed the Taluqdar had no interst  inthose lands."We are in agreement with the view thus expressed by the HighCourt.	 Having regard to the history of the gig Lal-liti  "lands  to which we have earlier adverted and the  provisionsof  the Gujrat Taluqdars' Act, 1888, it is manifestly  clearthat  "	 Lal-liti  " lands are lands which form	 part  of  ataluqdari  estate, even though no ' jama' was actually	paidfor  such  lands to the taluqdar or to	Government.   It  isnecessary to refer here401to  ss.	 4,  5 and 22 of the Gujrat  Taluqdars'	 Act,  1888.Section 4 empowers the Government to direct a revenue surveyof   any  Taluqdari  estate;  section  5    lays   down whatparticulars the Settlement Registers prepared by the  SurveyOfficer in respect of a taluqdari estate shall contain.	 Oneof  such particulars is " the name and description  and	 thenature and extent of interest of every alienee and of  everyincumbrancer  of the estate or any portion thereof  togetherwith  a specification of (i) the aggregate area	 over  whichsuch interest extends; (ii) the amount and nature of rent orland revenue, if any, payable or receivable by such  alieneeand incumbrancer, etc.".  It is not disputed before us,	 andthe  High Court has referred to it, that in  the  SettlementRegisters  prepared  in	 respect  of  the  two	villages  inquestion under s. 5 of the Gujrat Taluqdars' Act, 1888,	 theinterest of the appellants in the " Lal-liti " lands held bythem  was shown as comprised within the	 Dhanduka  Taluqdariestate.	  This clearly showed that these " Lal-liti "  landsformed part of a taluqdari estate, apart altogether from thequestion  what	interest, if any, the taluqdar	retained  inthem  after  the  alienation.	Section	 22  of	 the  GujratTaluqdars'  Act,  1888, also points the same way.   It	laysdown  how  the	" jama " of a taluqdar's  estate  is  to  becalculated:  it	 says  that  the  aggregate  of	 the  surveyassessments  of the lands composing such estate, minus	suchdeduction,  if	any, as the Government shall  in  each	casedirect,	 shall be the " jama ". Along with  their  petition,the  appellants filed an annexure marked A": that  annexure,besides	 showing  the  lands  of  the  appellants  within  ataluqdari  estate, also showed the "Jama " payable for	eachplot of land.  This again showed that whether the "jama " beactually  paid	or not, the " Lal-liti " lands held  by	 theappellants   formed   part  of	a  taluqdari   estate.	  Weaccordingly hold that learned counsel for the appellants  isnot right in his contention that " Lal-liti " lands are	 notpart   of  a  taluqdari	 estate	 and,  therefore,  are	 not'taluqdari lands' within the meaning of the Abolition Act.Learned	 counsel for the appellants referred us	 to  certaindecisions of the Bombay High Court as to the402      meaning of the expression " Taluqdar's estate "  in s.31 of the Gujrat Taluqdars' Act, 1888, and contended that itmeant  an  estate  held	 by  the  Taluqdar  as	a   Taluqdarand on the same analogy, he urged that land forming  part ofa taluqdari estate must also mean land in which the taluqdarhas  some interest as a taluqdar (Khoda	 Bhai  v.  Chaganlal(1),  Bichesbha	 Mansangji  v. Vela  Dhanji  Patel  (2)	 andTaluqdari Settlement Officer v. Chhagan Lal Dwarkadas (3) ).We do not think that those decisions are of any help to	 theappellants  for the simple reason that the analogy does	 notapply;	we  are concerned here not with the meaning  of	 theexpression  " taluqdar's estate " occurring in s. 31 of	 theGujrat	Taluqdars'  Act,  1888, but with the  meaning  of  adifferent expression, viz.  " taluqdari estate " in s.	2(3)of  the Abolition Act.	Moreover, in some of  the  decisionsrelied	on  by the learned counsel, it was  recognised	thatthere  was  a  distinction between  taluqdar's	estate'	 and'taluqdari estate.  We were also addressed at some length on the effect of therelinquishment of his land by the taluqdar in favour of	 theCollector (Nathuram Hiraram Thakur v. The Secretary of Statefor India(4)) or the effect of an attachment of the  villageunder s. 144 of the Revenue Code on failure of the  taluqdarto  pay	 the  assessment  (Tulla  Sobharam  Pandya  v.	 TheCollector  of  Kaira  (5)).  We do  not	 think	that  it  isnecessary in the present case to consider those questions.We  now	 go  to	 the second point urged	 on  behalf  of	 theappellants.  This point was not urged before, nor consideredby, the High Court in the writ application in which it	gaveits  leading  judgment.	 The appellants wished to  urge	 thepoint  in the High Court on their own application, but	weretold  that  if	the  decision of  the  High  Court  in	WritApplication  No.  1098	of  1954  was  wrong,  it  could  becorrected only by this Court.  The argument on this point isbased on s. 5(1) of the Abolition Act, which we have  quotedearlier, and is in two parts: firstly, it is contended	thatif clauses (a)(1)  (1907) 9 Bom.  L.R. 1122.(2)  (1909) 11 Bom.  L.R. 736.(3)  (191O) 12 Bom.  L.R. 903.(4)  (1929) 32 Bom.  L.R. 907.(5) (1918) 20 Bom.  L.R. 748.403and (b) of sub-section (1) of s. 5 are read together, theonly  reasonable  conclusion is that clause  (a)  is  merelydeclaratory  and  clause  (b) is the  operative	 clause	 andaccording  to that operative clause, the persons who  becomeliable	for payment of land revenue are only two in  number,namely, (1) a taluqdar holding any taluqdari land and (2)  acadet of a taluqdari family holding any taluqdari land	withhereditary rights for the purpose of maintenance immediatelybefore	the  coming into force of the  Abolition  Act,	and,therefore,  the holder of " Lal-liti " lands, assuming	themto  be	taluqdari  lands, has no liability  under  s.  5(1);secondly,  it is contended that even if clauses (a) and	 (b)of subsection (1) of s. 5 are read distributively the holderof Lal-liti " lands has still no liability, because cl.	 (a)makes taluqdari lands liable to the payment of land  revenuein  accordance with the provisions of the Revenue  Code	 andthere is no provision in that Code under which a "  Lal-liti" holder can be made liable to the payment of land revenue.We take the first part of the argument first.  How should weread  clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) of s. 5 of	 theAbolition  Act ? Learned counsel for the  appellants  statesthat  if clause (a) is also read as a clause which  operatesto charge all taluqdari lands with liability for payment  ofland  revenue, then clause (b) becomes a wholly	 unnecessarysurplusage.   On  the other hand, learned  counsel  for	 therespondents  points out that if the intention was to  fastenliability  on two categories of persons only, taluqdars	 andcadets,	 then clause (a) was really unnecessary.   We  thinkthat  both the clauses have a meaning and  purpose.   Clause(a) makes all taluqdari lands liable to the payment of	landrevenue	 in  accordance with the provisions of	the  RevenueCode.	Section 3 of the Abolition Act	abolishes  taluqdaritenure	and  extinguishes all its incidents.  If  there	 wasonly  abolition of taluqdari tenures without anything  more,there  would  have been a void.	 Obviously  enough,  it	 wasnecessary to say what would happen to taluqdari lands  afterabolition  of the taluqdari tenure.  Therefore,	 clause	 (a)states that all taluqdari lands shall be liable,404to  the	 payment  of land revenue  in  accordance  with	 theprovisions of the Revenue Code.	 What then is the meaning ofclause (b)?  It is a deeming provision by which the taluqdarand  his cadet shall be deemed to be an occupant within	 themeaning	 of  the Revenue  Code; and I  occupant'  under	 theRevenue	 Code  means  a	 holder	 in  actual  possession	  ofunalienated  land'.The word  'alienated' has also a  specialmeaning	 in the Revenue Code; it means I transferred  in  sofar  as the rights of Government to payment of rent or	landrevenue are concerned, wholly or partially, to the ownershipof any person'.	 Clause (b) merely clarifies the position ofthe taluqdar and his cadet under the Abolition Act; it	doesnot  in	 any way derogate from clause (a); nor does  it	 cutdown  the width of amplitude of clause (a).  We are  of	 theview  that clauses (a) and (b) should be read together,	 butnot  in the sense suggested by the learned counsel  for	 theappellants.   Clause (b) clarifies the position as  respectstwo categories of persons; but that does not mean that if  athird  category of persons properly come under	clause	(a),they  will  not be liable to payment of land  revenue  on  aspecious  and unwarranted assumption that clause (b) as	 theoperating clause cuts down the amplitude of clause (a).	 Thetrue  view  is that clause (a) is a  general  provision	 andapplies	 the  Revenue  Code to all  taluqdari  lands,  whileclause (b) is a particular deeming provision with regard  tothe taluqdar and his cadet.Now, as to the second part of the argument.  It is necessaryto read here s. 136(1) of the Revenue Code:"  Section  136	 (1): In the case of  unalienated  land	 theoccupant,  and	in the case of alienated land  or  taluqdariland, the superior holder, shall be primarily liable to	 theState  Government  for	the payment of	the  land  revenue,,including all arrears of land revenue, due in respect of theland.	Joint occupants and joint holders who are  primarilyliable	under  this section shall be jointly  and  severallyliable."The  question  is if the holder of " Lal-liti  "  lands	 is,after the Abolition Act, an occupant of unalienated405land  within  the meaning of s. 136; if he is,	then  he  isliable	to the payment of land revenue under s. 5(1)(a)	  ofthe Abolition Act read with s. 136 of the Revenue Code.	  Indealing	 with  this  question, which  has  caused    us someanxiety,  we must remember the meaning of the expressions  'occupant'  and	'alienated' used in the Revenue	 Code.	 Theargument on behalf of the appellants is that a " Lal-liti  "holder	 is  not  an  occupant	of  unalienated	 land;	 therespondents contend that he is, after the enforcement of theAbolition  Act.	 On a careful consideration of the  questionwe  have come to the conclusion that the contention  of	 therespondents is correct.In  respect  of	 "  Lal-liti "	lands,	Government  made  no,separate  settlement  with the holder of  such	 lands;	 thesettlement   was  made	with  the  taluqdar,  within   whichsettlement  " Lal-liti " lands were included.  The right  ofGovernment to payment of land revenue was never	 transferredto  the holder of " Lal-liti " lands though it is true	thatsome  of  the taluqdars got a deduction under s. 22  of	 theGujrat Taluqdars' Act, 1888, for the " Lal-liti " lands.  Wehave  been  addressed  at some length as  to  what  was	 theposition  of taluqdars and " Lal-liti " holders previous  tothe Abolition Act.  On behalf of the respondents it has beensubmitted  that one characteristic of the  taluqdari  tenurewas  that  the taluqdari estate was  neither  alienated	 norunalienated within the meaning of the Revenue Code;  becausethe  taluqdars were not grantees of the British but  enjoyedproprietary  rights in their estates even before the  adventof  British rule.  As to " Lal-liti " lands, they  were	 notgenerally taken into account at the time of calculating	 the"  jama " payable by the taluqdars to Government; and  as  aresult,	 they were not covered by the  Settlement  guaranteeoperating  in  favour of the taluqdar.	 Therefore,  so	 theargument on behalf of the respondents has proceeded, holdersof  "Lal-liti"	lands  became  liable  to  payment  of	fullassessment on the footing that they became occupants52406of unalienated land, with effect from the date on which	 theAbolition  Act	came into force.  Learned  counsel  for	 therespondents  has  also drawn our attention to  the  list  ofamendments  in	the Revenue Code made by Schedule 1  of	 theAbolition  Act	in  support  of	 his  contention  that	 thetaluqdars and all taluqdari lands have been brought into thescheme of the Revenue Code by the necessary amendments of s.136 and other sections of the Revenue Code.The narrow question before us is, as we have stated earlier,whether	  a  "	Lal-liti  "  holder  is	 an  'occupant'	  of"unalienated  land' within the meaning of the Revenue  Code.We are of the view that whatever may have been his  positionearlier,  on  the abolition of the taluqdari tenure  by	 theAbolition  Act	he became a holder in actual  possession  ofland in respect of which the Government had not	 transferredits rights to the payment of revenue, wholly or partially tothe ownership of any person.Therefore,   the  second  point	 urged	on  behalf  of	 theappellants fails in both parts.We  need  notice very briefly three other  points  urged  onbehalf	of the appellants; because we are in  such  completeagreement  with the High Court with regard to them, that  itis  unnecessary to re-state in detail the reasons which	 theHigh Court has already given.(1)  As	 to the saving clause (c) of s. 17 of the  AbolitionAct,  the High Court has rightly pointed out that it is	 theusual saving clause which says in effect that the repeal  ofthe  Gujrat ' Taluqdars' Act, 1888, shall not be  deemed  toeffect	any declaration made or any agreement or  settlementrecognised  etc. under the provisions of the  repealed	Act.The  aforesaid saving clause affords, no protection  againstthe liability imposed by s. 5 of the Abolition Act.(2)  Learned  counsel  also  relied on	s.  5(2)(a)  of	 theAbolition  Act,	 before its repeal by  the  Bombay  PersonalInams Abolition Act, 1952 (Bombay Act 42 of 1953), and basedhis  alternative claim thereon.	 Here again, the High  Courtrightly	 pointed out that there was no special	contract  infavour	of  the appellants as to exemption from	 payment  ofland revenue407nor was there any law for the time being in force (after theAbolition  Act)	 which granted the holder of  "	 Lal  -liti"lands exemption, wholly or partially, from pay-ment of	landrevenue;  therefore,  the  appellants were  entitled  to  noprotection under s. 5(2)(a) of the Abolition Act till August1, 1953.(3)  Lastly,  it was submitted that there was  a  settlementfor  thirty years with the taluqdari estate in	question  in1925-26 and in the absence of any fresh settlement under theprovisions of the Revenue Code, a "Lal-liti" holder was	 notliable	to pay land revenue within that period.	 This  pointis completely answered by s. 4 of the Abolition Act which interms  says  that  all revenue surveys	or  revised  revenuesurveys	 of  taluqdari	estates under s.  4  of	 the  GujratTaluqdars'  Act,  1888,	 and all settlement  made  shall  bedeemed	to have been made under Chapters VIII and  VIIIA  ofthe  Revenue  Code and the settlement  registers  and  otherrecords	 prepared  at such surveys shall be deemed  to	havebeen  prepared	under the corresponding	 provisions  of	 theRevenue	 Code.	 We know that the "Lal-liti" lands  of	thiscase  were shown in the Settlement Registers prepared  underthe Gujrat Taluqdars' Act, 1888.  In view of the  provisionsof  s.	4  of the Abolition Act,  no  fresh  settlement	 wasnecessary.For  the  reasons given above, we hold that  the  appellantshave  failed to show that the decision of the High Court  iswrong.	The appeal is accordingly dimissed with costs.			       Appeal dismissed.408