PETITIONER:JAYARAM VITHOBA AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY.DATE OF JUDGMENT:13/12/1955BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR  146		  1955 SCR  (2)1049ACT:Code  of Criminal Procedure (Act V of 1898), s.	 423  (1)(b)and  (d),  s.  439-Powers of  Appellate	 Court-High  Court'spowers	of  revision-Conviction by the trial  Court  but  nosentence-High  Court  confirming  conviction  and   awardingsentence-Legality-Bombay Prevention of Gambling Act  (BombayAct IV of 1887), ss. 4(a), 5.HEADNOTE:The first appellant was prosecuted under s. 5 of the  BombayPrevention of Gambling Act (Bombay Act IV of 1887) for beingpresent	 in  a gaming house for the purposes of	 gaming	 andwas,  in  addition,  charged under s. 4(a) of  the  Act	 forkeeping	 a  gaming house.  The	Presidency  Magistrate,	 whotried the case, found him guilty under s. 4(a) and sentencedhim  to three months' rigorous imprisonment.  He also  foundhim guilty under s. 5 but awarded no separate sentence underthat  section.	 In revision, the High Court set  aside	 theconviction under s. 4(a), but confirmed that under s. 5	 andawarded	 a sentence of three months'  rigorous	imprisonmentunder  that  section.	It  was	 contended  for	 the   firstappellant  that	 the  High  Court  had	no  power  under  s.423(1)(b)  of the Code of Criminal Procedure to	 impose	 anysentence  under	 s. 5 of the Act when no such  sentence	 hadbeen  awarded by the Magistrate and that, in any event,	 theaward of such a sentence amounted to an enhancement and was,in consequence, illegal, as no notice had been issued there-for, as required by law.Held,  that  though  s. 423(1)(b) of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure was not applicable to the case, the High Court hadpower to pass the sentence under s. 423(1)(d).The law does not envisage a person being convicted for an1050offence	 without a sentence being imposed therefor, and	 theaward of a sentence by the High Court was only consequentialon  and incidental to the affirmance of the conviction,	 andit  was a just and proper order to be passed under the	law,within	the meaning of s. 423(1)(d) of the Code of  CriminalProcedure.Such  a sentence cannot amount to an enhancement as  it	 wasawarded only for the first time in appeal.  Even if it	wereto  be	regarded as an enhancement, the order  of  the	HighCourt  could not be held to be bad for want of notice  unders.  439(2),  as the first appellant had	 an  opportunity  ofshowing	 cause against the conviction and enhancement,	and,in any event, no prejudice had resulted to him by reason  ofthe absence of a formal notice under the section.Ibrahim	 v. Emperor (A.I.R. 1940 Bom.  129),  Superintendentand  Remembrancer  of Legal Affairs v. Hossein	Ali  (A.I.R.1938  Cal. 439) and Pradip Chaudhry v. Emperor (A.I.R.	1946Pat. 235), disapproved.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 75  of1954.Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and dated the 24thJuly  1953  of	the Bombay High Order a	 Court	in  CriminalRevision  Application  No. 669 of 1953 arising	out  of	 theJudgment and Order dated the 29th June 1953 of the Court  ofPresidency  Magistrate, 9th Court at Bandra, Bombay in	CaseNo. 11872/73/P of 1952.,P.   K. Chatterjee, for the appellants.N.   S.	  Bindra,  (P.	 G.  Gokhale,  with  him)  for	 therespondent.1955.  December 13.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AYYAR  J.-The  first  appellant  was,  at	 therelevant  date,	 in possession of room No. 10 in  House	 No.334,  Bazar Road, Bandra, Bombay., On information that	thisroom  was  being  used as a gaming  house,  Mr.	 Bhatt	Sub-Inspector  of Police, raided it on 19-9-1952, and found	 thetwo  appellants	 and  four others in  possession  of  gaminginstruments  All of them were prosecuted under section 5  ofthe  Bombay  Prevention of Gambling Act (Bombay	 Act  IV  of1887), hereinafter referred to as the Act, for being presentin a gaming house for the purposes of1051gaming,	 and the first appellant was, in  addition,  chargedunder  section 4(a) of the Act for keeping a  gaming  house.The  Presidency	 Magistrate who tried the  case,  found	 thefirst  appellant guilty under section 4(a) of the  Act,	 andsentenced  him to three months' rigorous  imprisonment.	  Healso  found  him  guilty under section 5  of  the  Act,	 butawarded no separate sentence under that section.  The secondappellant was found guilty under section 5, and sentenced tothree  months' rigorous imprisonment.  The  appellants	tookthe  matter in revision to the High Court, which  set  asidethe conviction of the first appellant under section 4(a) butconfirmed  that under section 5, and awarded a	sentence  ofthree months' rigorous imprisonment under that section.	  Asregards	 the second appellant, both the conviction and	sen-tence  were  confirmed.	  Against this	order,	the  presentappeal by special leave has been preferred. Both  the  courts below have concurrently  found  that	 theappellants were present in a gaming house for the purpose ofgaming,	 and  have thereby committed an	 offence  punishableunder  section 5 of the Act, and that finding is  not  underchallenge  before  us.	The only contention  that  has	beenraised	before	us-and it arises only as regards  the  firstappellant  is  that  as the High Court	had  set  aside	 hisconviction  under section 4 (a)'of the Act, it	should	haveset aside the sentence passed on him under that section, andthat  it had no power under the Code of Criminal  Procedure,to  impose  a sentence under section 5, when none  such	 hadbeen passed by the Magistrate.	This contention is based on,the terms of section 423.  Under that section, when there isan  appeal  against a conviction, the court  has  the  powerunder subclause (1)(b) either (1) to reverse the finding andsentence, and acquit or discharge the accused, or order	 hisretrial,  or  (2)  to alter the	 finding  but  maintain	 thesentence,  or  (3) to reduce the sentence  with	 or  withoutaltering  the finding, or (4) to alter the sentence with  orwithout	 either	 reducing  the	sentence  or  altering	 thefinding,  but,	subject	 to section 106(3),  not  so  as  toenhance the same.  It is urged that the1052present case does not fall within any of the four categoriesmentioned  above as the conviction under section 5 has	beenaffirmed,  and	no question of reduction  or  alteration  ofsentence arises, as none had been imposed under that sectionby  the	 Magistrate, and that accordingly the order  of	 theHigh  Court  could  not	 be  justified	under  any  of	 theprovisions  of the Code.  It is further contended  that	 theaward  of  sentence under section 5 amounted  in  the  abovecircumstances  to an enhancement, and was,  in	consequence,illegal, as no notice had been issued therefor'. as requiredby law.In  support of this contention, the decision in	 Ibrahim  v.Emperor(1)  is relied on.  In that case, as in the  present,the  accused  was  convicted both  under  section  4(a)	 andsection	 5  of	the Act, but a	sentence  was  passed  undersection	 4(a)  and  none under section	5.  On	appeal,	 thelearned Judges set aside the conviction under section  4(a),and   on  the  question	 of  sentence,	observed  that	 theMagistrate  was	 wrong	in not	having	imposed	 a  separatesentence under section 5, and continued:"He ought to have imposed a sentence under each section; butas he has not imposed a sentence under section 5, we  cannotimpose	one  ourselves,	 for that  would  be  enhancing	 thesentence".These observations undoubtedly support the first appellant.A different view, however, was taken in two other decisions,which	may   now  be  noticed.	   In	Superintendent	 andRemembrancer of Legal Affairs v. Hossein Ali(2), the accusedhad been convicted by the Magistrate both under section	 363and  section 498 of the Indian Penal Code, and sentenced  toimprisonment under section 363, no separate sentence  havingbeen  awarded  under section 498.  On appeal,  the  SessionsJudge  set aside the conviction under section 363, but	heldthe accused guilty under section 498.  On a reference as  towhether	 the  Sessions Judge could pass any  sentence  undersection	 498, it was held by the High Court that  he  could,under section 423 (1) (b) of(1) A.I.R. 1940 Bom. 129.     (2) A.I.R. 1938 Cal. 439.1053the  Code of Criminal Procedure, as there was an  alterationof  the conviction under sections 363 and 498 to  one  undersection	 498.	This  view proceeds, in our  opinion,  on  amisconception  of the true meaning of the words	 "alter	 thefinding"  in  section  423(1)(b) of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure.   When  a  statute  enacts  provisions   creatingspecific offences, in law these offences constitute distinctmatters	 with distinct incidents.  Under section 233 of	 theCode  of  Criminal  Procedure, they have  to  be  separatelycharged, and under section 367, the judgment has to  specifythe offence of which and the law under which the accused  isconvicted.   When  there is a conviction for  more  offencesthan one, there are distinct findings in respect of each  ofthem, and when section 423 (1) (b) speaks of a finding beingreversed or altered by the court of appeal, it has referenceto  the finding in respect of each of the  offences.   When,therefore,  the	 High Court set aside the  conviction  undersection	 4 (a) and affirmed that under section 5, there	 aretwo  distinct  findings,  one of  reversal  and	 another  ofaffirmance, and there is no question of alteration.The  decision  in Superintendent and Remembrancer  Of  LegalAffairs v. Hossein Ali(1) was followed in Pradip Chaudhry v.Emperor(2).  There, the Sessions Judge convicted the accusedunder  sections	 324 and 148 of the Indian  Penal  Code	 andsentenced  them	 to imprisonment under section 324,  but  nosentence was imposed on them under section 148.	 On  appeal,the  High Court set aside the conviction under section	324,and  confirmed	that under section 148.	  Dealing  with	 thecontention of the accused that the Court had no power  undersection	 423  (1) (b) of the Code of Criminal  Procedure  toaward  a  sentence  under section 148,	the  learned  Judgesobserved  that	they  had  "ample  power  to  transpose	 thesentence,  so long as the transposition does not  amount  toenhancement".	We  are unable to support the  reasoning  inthis decision either.  There is nothing about  transpositionof  sentence under section 423(1)(b).  It only provides	 foraltering the finding and maintaining the sentence,(1) A.I.R. 1938 cal. 439.(2) A.I.R. 1946 Patna, 235.1054and that can apply only to cases where the finding of  guiltunder  one  section is altered to a finding of	guilt  underanother.   The section makes a clear distinction  between  areversal of a finding and its alteration, and provides	thatwhen there is a reversal, the order to be passed is, one  ofacquittal,  discharge or retrial, whereas when there  is  analteration,  the order to be passed is one  of	maintaining,reducing  or  altering the sentence.  But  here,  the  orderpassed	by  the High Court is not one of alteration  of	 anyfinding.   It  is,  as already stated,	a  reversal  of	 thefinding	 under	section	 4(a)  and  a  confirmation  of	 theconviction under section 5. We are therefore of opinion thaton the language of the section, the imposition of a sentenceunder section 5 by the High Court cannot be justified.The question still remains whether apart from section 423(1)(b),  the  High Court has the power to impose  the  sentencewhich  it  has.	 When a person is tried for an	offence	 andconvicted, it is the duty of the court to impose on him suchsentence,  as  is  prescribed therefor.	 The  law  does	 notenvisage  a person being convicted for an offence without  asentence being imposed therefor.  When the trial  Magistrateconvicted  the	first  appellant under	section	 5,  it	 wasplainly his duty to have imposed a sentence.  Having imposeda sentence under section 4(a), he obviously considered	thatthere was no need to impose a like sentence under section  5and   to   direct  that	 both  the  sentences	should	 runconcurrently.	But,  in strictness, such an order  was	 theproper	one  to	 be passed.  The appellants  then  took	 thematter	in  revision to the High Court, and  contended	thattheir  conviction under section 5 was bad.  The	 High  Courtwent into the question on the merits, and found them  guiltyunder  that section.  It was the duty of the High  Court  toimpose	a  sentence under section 5, and that  is  preciselywhat it has done.  The power to pass a sentence under  thosecircumstances  is derived from the law which enacts that  onconviction  a sentence shall be imposed on the accused,	 andthat  is a power which can and ought to be exercised by	 allthe courts which, having jurisdiction to decide whether the1055accused	 is  guilty  or not, find that he  is.	 We  are  ofopinion that this power is preserved to the appellate  courtexpressly  by  section 423(1)(d), which enacts that  it	 can"make any amendment or any consequential or incidental orderthat may be just or proper".  When a conviction is  affirmedin  appeal  but no sentence had been awarded  by  the  trialMagistrate., the award of a sentence is consequential on andincidental to the affirmance of the conviction, and it is  ajust  and proper order to be passed under the law.   We	 areunable	to  agree  with the view  expressed  in	 Ibrahim  v.Emperor(1) that such an order could be an enhancement of thesentence.   Before  a sentence can be said to  be  enhanced,there  must  be	 one which could be enhanced,  and  when  nosentence was imposed on a conviction by the trial Magistrateand  one is for the first time awarded in appeal, it  cannotcorrectly be said to be an enhancement.	 We are	 accordinglyof  opinion  that it was within the competence of  the	HighCourt to have passed the sentence which it had.There  is  another ground on which the order  of  the  lowercourt  can  be	sustained.  Against the	 conviction  of	 theappellants by the Presidency Magistrate, no appeal lay,	 andaccordingly the appellants preferred a revision to the	HighCourt.	 Under	section	 439(1)	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure, the High Court in hearing a revision can exercisethe  powers of a court of appeal under section 423, and	 mayenhance	 the  sentence.	 Under section 439(2), an  order  ofenhancement  could not be passed, unless the accused bad  anopportunity of being heard in his defence, and under section439(6),	 the accused is also entitled, when proceedings	 aretaken  under  section  439(2), to  show	 cause	against	 hisconviction.   The  substance  of the  matter  is  that	whenproceedings are taken against the accused for enhancement ofsentence  under section 439(2), he has a right to  be  beardboth on the question of the propriety of the conviction	 andof the sentence to be imposed on him if he is convicted.  Inthe present case, the first appellant had an opportunity  ofpre-(1)  A.I.R. 1940 Bom. 129.1056senting	 his case in respect of both these matters, and,  infact, he availed himself of the same.  He himself raised  inhis revision the question of his guilt under section 5,	 andthe  High  Court  on a consideration  of  all  the  evidenceaffirmed  his  conviction.   On the  question  of  sentence,section	 5 enacts that when a person is found  guilty  underthat  section, the punishment shall not be less	 than  threemonths'	 imprisonment  and  Rs. 200 fine , if  be  had	beenconvicted  for	the  same  offence  previously.	  The  firstappellant  had	a previous conviction, and the	sentence  ofimprisonment  is the minimum which could be  passed  againsthim  under section 5. With reference to this aspect  of	 thematter, the High Court observes:"In  view  of  the fact that the first	accused	 admits	 oneprevious conviction under section 5 of the Act, the sentenceof  three months' rigorous imprisonment passed upon  him  bythe learned Presidency Magistrate is justified".Now,  the  question is whether, in  the	 circumstances,	 theorder of the High Court could be held to be bad for want  ofnotice	under  section 439(2).	The law does  not  prescribethat  any  particular formalities should be  complied  with,before action is taken under that section.  It only providesthat the accused should have an opportunity of showing causeagainst	 the conviction and enhancement, and, as  the  firstappellant  was heard on both these questions,  the  require-ments of the section were satisfied.  The order of the	HighCourt  could  accordingly be maintained under  section	439,even  if  it were to be regarded as an	enhancement  of	 thesentence.   In any event, no prejudice has resulted  to	 thefirst appellant by reason of the absence of a formal  noticeunder section 439(2).In the result, the appeal is dismissed.1057