PETITIONER:THE UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LTD.,CALCUTTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/05/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMACITATION: 1957 AIR  918		  1958 SCR   79ACT:Income	Tax-Business loss of Previous  Year-Set-off  againstincome of the Assessment Year-Income from "interest on secu-rities"-Banking business-Securities, part of trading assets-Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI Of 1922), SS.6,8,10, 24(2).HEADNOTE:For  the assessment year (1945-46) the assessable income  ofthe appellant bank was computed by the Income-tax Officer bysplitting  up  its  income  into two  heads  "	interest  onsecurities  "  and " business income ",	 and  deducting	 thebusiness loss from interest on securities.  In the  previousyear  the  assessment showed a loss which  was	computed  bysetting	 off  the  " business loss  against  "	interest  onsecurities The appellant claimed that in the computation  ofits  profits  for  the assessment year in  question  it	 wasentitled  to set off the carried over loss of  the  previousyear under s. 24(2) Of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.	 TheIncome-tax Officer rejected the claim on the ground that theloss was under the head " business " and so could not be setoff  against  income from securities under S. 24(2)  of	 theAct.   Both the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal and  the	HighCourt, on reference, held that in view of ss. 6, 8 and 10 ofthe  Act " interest on securities " could not be treated  asbusiness income and therefore the appellant could not  claima set-off under S. 24(2).  On appeal to the Supreme Court itwas contended for the appellant that (1) ss. 8 and 10 shouldbe  so	read that where the securities in the  hands  of  anassessee  are trading assets, s. 8 would be excluded,  beingrestricted to capital investments only, and the matter wouldfall  under the head " business " within s. 10, and  (2)  inany  case, even if the income from securities fell under  s.8,  the appellant would be entitled to a set-off  under	 -s.24(2)  because	it  carried on	only  one  business,  namelybanking, and the holding of securities by it was part of thesaid business.Held, that the scheme of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, isthat  the  various  heads  of  income,	profits	 and   gainsenumerated  in s. 6 are mutually exclusive, each head  beingspecific to cover the item arising from a particular  sourceand,  consequently,  "	interest on securities	"  which  isspecifically made chargeable to tax under s. 8 as a distincthead,  falls under that section and cannot be brought  unders. 10, whether the securities are held as trading assets  orcapital asset,"80Commissioner  of Income Tax v. Chunnilal B. Mehta, [1938]  6I.T.R. 521 Salisbury House Estate Ltd. v. Fry, (1930) 15  T.C. 266, Commercial Properties Ltd. v. Commissioner of IncomeTax,  Bengal,  (1928)  3  I.T.C. 23 and	 H.  C.	 Kothari  v.Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras, [1951] 20 I. T. R.	579,relied on.The  question  whether	the holding  of	 securities  by	 theappellant formed part of the same business within S.  24(2),could  not be decided in the absence of a finding  that	 thesecurities  in	question were a part of the  trading  assetsheld  by  the appellant in the course of its business  as  abanker,	 and the case was remitted to the High Court  for  afresh  decision	 on  the reference after  getting  from	 theTribunal a fuller statement of facts.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 161 of 1954.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated, May 18, 1953,  ofthe  Calcutta High Court in Income-tax Reference No.  72  of1951.N.   A. Palkhivala, P. D. Himatsingka, J. B. Dadachanji,  S.N. Andley Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellant.G. N. Joshi and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1957.  May 23.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR  J.-This appeal brought on a certificate of  the	HighCourt  raises a point of far-reaching consequence as to	 theinterpretation of ss. 8, 10 and 24(2) of the Indian  Income-tax Act (hereinafter termed the Act).The assessee (who is the appellant before us) claims that inthe computation of its profits for the assessment year underreview (1945-46), it is entitled to set off the carried overloss of the previous year against the profits of the year ofassessment  under  s. 24(2) of the Act.	 The assessee  is  aBank carrying on banking business.  For the assessment	yearits assessable income was computed by the Income Tax Officerat  Rs.	 14,95,826  "by	 splitting up"	its  income  into  2heads	.....................	"interest   on	 securities"and  .................... business income ". "	Interest  onsecurities" in the year of assessment was Rs. 23,62,815	 andunder the head " business income " there was a81loss  of Rs. 8,86,972.	After making the  necessary  adjust-ments  and  deducting the business loss from "	Interest  onsecurities   ",	 the  net  income  was	determined  at	 Rs.14,95,826.   In	 the previous year there was a loss  of	 Rs.3,21,929 which was computed by setting off the business lossagainst "interest on securities ".Before the Income-tax Officer the assessee made its claim onthe  basis that it was a part of " the business of the	Bankto  deal  in securities.............................  and  "that  no  distinction  should be made  between	income	fromsecurities and income from business for the purpose of	set-off  under s. 24 ". It also claimed that it carried on	onlyone  business, namely banking as defined by s. 277F  of	 theIndian Companies Act in the' course of which the " Bank	 hasto  receive  money on deposits and invest such	deposits  insecurities,  loans and advances " and therefore holdings  ofsecurities  by	it  could not be  treated  as  its  separatebusiness.   The Income-tax Officer was of the opinion  that,as  there was a loss under the head " business "  its  claimcould;	not be sustained and hence it could not be  set	 offunder s.  24(2) of the Act.On appeal to the Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax it wasagain contended that the assessee was a dealer in securitiesand that the two heads of income, " Interest on securities "and  " profits and gains " in banking business could not  betreated separately and were part of the same business of theassessee  and  therefore it could claim a set-off  under  s.24(2)  of the Act.  But this contention was  repelled.	 Thematter	was then taken to the Income-tax Appellate  Tribunalwhere again the contention was repeated that the business ofthe  assessee could not be split up into two heads  under  "interest  on  securities  "  and  banking  business".	 TheTribunal, however, held:"  Reading  ss.	 6,  8 and 10 it  appears  to  us  that	 thelegislature  wanted to keep the income from the two  sourcesas  separate.	We  are therefore of the  opinion  that	 theIncome-tax  Officer was right in splitting up the income  ofthe appellant into two heads and in refusing the set-off  ofthe business loss brought forward1182from  last year against income from Govt. securities  earnedthis year."It therefore did not allow the loss of the previous year  tobe  set off against the computed profits of  the  assessmentyear. The assessee thereupon asked for a case to be stated to theHigh Court and inter alia raised two questions;(1)  Whether  interest	on securities was a part  of  Bank'sincome from business carried on by it.(2)  Whether  the  assessee  was entitled  to  set  off	 thecarried over loss of the previous year against income duringthe assessment year.The  assessee  contended  that it was  carrying	 on  bankingbusiness  in  various towns in India, that "  in  the  usualcourse	of its business it invests moneys in Securities	 andreceives  interest thereon " and therefore it  claimed	thatthe loss of Rs. 3,21,929, carried forward from the  previousyear could be set off under s. 24(2) of the Act.The  Tribunal stated the case and sought the opinion of	 theHigh Court on the following three questions;(1)  " Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of thiscase, the assessee was entitled to set off the business lossof  Rs.	 3,21,929 brought forward from	the  preceding	yearagainst this year's income from interest on securities	heldby the assessee.(2)  Whether  on the facts and in the circumstances of	thiscase the assessee was entitled under s. 8 to deduct any partof  the	 administrative	 expenses out  of  the	income	frominterest on securities.(3)  Whether in the circumstances of this case, the assesseewas entitled under the first proviso to s. 8 of the  Income-tax  Act  to  deduct  any interest  on	money  borrowed	 andutilised for investment in tax-free securities."The  High Court answered all the questions in the  negative.The learned Chief Justice during the course of his  judgmentsaid:83"  It  appears to me, therefore, that  because	the  severalheads  under s. 6 in the Indian Act are	 mutually  exclusiveand  because under any Income-tax Law, an item coming  underan  exclusive  head cannot in any circumstances	 be  chargedunder  another	head  and  also	 because  the  interest	  onsecurities  in	the hands of a banker cannot be	 treated  asbusiness  income on the principles explained by Mr.  JusticeRowlatt,   I   must  hold  that	 the   contention   of	 theasesssee..................................	must	  berejected."  We had the benefit of a full and  able  argumentfrom  counsel on both sides.  Counsel for the appellant	 hasraised three points:(1)That	 ss.  8	 and 10 of the Act should be  so  read	that"interest on securities", in cases where the true nature andcharacter  of the securities in the hands of an assessee  isone  of trading assets, would be excluded from the scope  ofs.  8 and would fall under the head "business" within s.  10of the Actand alternatively even if ss. 8 and 10 are read as  specificheads then s. 10, being more appropriate, should be  appliedto the facts of the present case ;(2)If  ss. 8 and 10 are equally applicable the assessee	 hasthe  option  to	 be taxed under that head  which  imposes  alighter burden on him; and(3)Lastly he contended that even if the heads of income wereto  be taken as mutually exclusive so that the "interest  onsecurities"  falls under s. 8 and "business" under s. 10  ofthe  Act, the assessee would be entitled to a set-off  unders. 24 (2) because "interest on securities" and "profits	 andgains" from business result from different operations of thesame  business,	 the two being different forms of  the	samebusiness of the assessee.We  may	 now turn to the scheme of the Act.   Section  2(15)defines	 "total	 income" to mean "total	 amount	 of  income,profits	 and  gains.................computed in	 the  mannerlaid  down  in	the Act." Chapter I of the  Act	 deals	with"Charge of income-tax".	 It consists of two sections-3 &  4.Section 3 provides that "income-tax shall be charged for anyyear at any rate or rates in84accordance with and subject -to the provisions of this Act."Section	 4 provides' that "the total income of any  previousyear  of any person includes all income, profits  and  gainsfrom whatever sources derived".Chapter 3 deals with "Taxable income".	Section 6 enumeratesthe  heads  of income chargeable to incometax.	It  says  asunder : S.  6	"Save  as  otherwise  provided	by  this  Act,	 thefollowing  heads  of  income, profits and  gains,  shall  bechargeable to income-tax in the manner hereinafter appearingnamely(i) Salaries.(ii) Interest on securities.(iii)	  Income from property.(iv) Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation.(v)  Income from other sources.(vi) Capital gains."The  two relevant heads for the purpose of this	 appeal	 are(ii) & (iv), i.e., " interest on securities " and "  profitsand gains of business" which are dealt with under ss. 8	 and10  of the Act respectively.  Section 8 provides that "	 thetax  shall  be	payable	 by an assessee	 under	the  head  "interest  on securities " in respect of interest  receivableby     him    on    any	   security    of    the     CentralGovernment.................  and  in the  provisos  to	thissection	 are given the allowable deductions.  The  amendmentmade in the proviso by the Act of 1955 is very relevant	 forthe  purpose of this appeal and we &hall advert to it  at  alater stage.Section 10 provides:"  The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head  "profits	 and gains of business, profession or  vocation"  inrespect of the profits or gains of any business,  professionor  vocation  carried on by him "... The  assessee  contendsthat  securities are a part of its trading assets  and	thisposition has throughout been accepted by the Department, andany  income which accrues in respect of these assets in	 theform of interest85has  the  same	characteristics as profits  or	gains  of  "business  " and therefore must be treated as income  fallingunder  the  head " business " under s. 10 of  the  Act.	  Inother  words  the income of the assessee  from	its  bankingbusiness  which	 includes  dealing  insecurities   is,reallyincome from the same source and whatever accrues in the formof interest whether from securities or from any other sourceof  investment would fall under s. 10 and not s.  8  becauseall the interest accrues from the business carried on by theassessee  and  this  business is  only	one  business.	 Theargument thus is that ss. 8 & 10 have to be so construed  asto  harmonise with each other and the only way they  can  beharmonised is that income accruing in the form of  "intereston  securities"	 should	 be taken to be	 accruing  from	 thebusiness of the assessee because securities form part of itstrading	 assets	 and thus fall within s. 10 and	 not  s.  8,which must be restricted to capital investments only.  It isfurther contended that if the object of the legislature	 wasto give a separate and exclusive identity to the income from"  interest on securities", it would have made the  languageof s. 8 of the Act as specific as it has made in the case ofincome	from  dividends	 from shares, which  income  by	 theaddition  of  sub-s.  (I-A)  to s. 12 has  come	 to  have  aspecific  place	 under the head "other sources"	 and  is  nolonger within the head "business" under s. 10 of the Act andthus  by statute its nature and character have	undergone  achange.	   Reference   is  in  this   connection   made	  toCommissioner of Income-tax v. Ahmuty & co. Ltd. (1) where itwas  held by the High Court of Bombay that  dividend  incomereceived by a dealer in shares is chargeable under s. 10 andnot  under s. 12 of the Act.  It is thus contended  that  inorder  to preserve the unity and oneness of the business  ofthe  assessee  and  to maintain the unity  of  its  businessincome the applicability of s. 8 should be circumscribed  to"interest  on securities" when they are -not trading  assetsof the assessee.According  to the scheme of the Act discussed above  income-tax has to be charged in respect of the "total(1)  (1955] 27 I.T.R. 63.86income"	 of the previous year of every assessee	 and  "totalincome"	 is defined under s. 2(15) to comprise	all  income,profits	 and gains from whatever source derived	 subject  tocertain	 exemptions.  Chapter 3 which is  entitled  "Taxableincome"	 comprises ss. 6 to 17 (both sections  inclusive  ).Section	 6 enumerates the various heads of  income,  profitsand gains which are chargeable to income-tax.  Each of theseheads  of  income, profits and gains is dealt with  under  aseparate section and these sections also give the details ofallowances and exemptions in regard to each different  head.The  argument  raised  by counsel for the  Revenue  is	thataccording  to the decision of the Privy Council	 in  ProbhatChandra	 Barua v. The King Emperor (1) s. 6 is the  chargingsection	 and  that the words of ss. 7 to 12  show  that	 thevarious	 heads	of income are mutually exclusive  and  itemswhich specifically fall under these various heads have to becharged	 under	only that head and would fall under  one  ofthese  several but appropriately specific sections.   It  istrue that the Privy Council in Probhat Chandra Barua v.	 TheKing Emperor (supra) did point out that s. 6 was a  chargingsection,  but  this  was  because ss.  3  and  4  were	thendifferently  worded  as pointed out by Kania,  J.,  in	B.M.Kamdar, In re (2 ) at p. 43 and by Chagla, J., in the,	samecase at p. 57.	The Federal Court in Chatturam and othersv.   Commissioner of Income-tax, Bihar(3) said:The  liability to pay the tax is founded on ss. 3 and  4  ofthe Income-tax Act which are the charging sections".The judgment of the Privy Council in Wallace Brothers &	 Co.Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax (4) also shows s.   3  tobe the charging section.It  is then argued that s. 6 of the Act being mandatory	 allitems of income, from whatever source they arise, would fallonly  under  one  of the heads enumerated  under  s.  6	 andtherefore  one of the ss. 7 to 12 would	 specifically  applyand s. 8 which relates to " interest on securities" must  beheld  to  apply	 to income from that  source.	It  is	alsocontended by counsel for the(1)  (1930) L.R. 57 I.A. 228, 238.(2)  [1946] 14 I.T.R. 10.(3)  [1947] 15 I.T.R. 302, 308.(4)  [1948] 16 I.T.R. 240.87Revenue that even if there is any overlapping between ss.  8and  10	 "interest  on	securities"  whether  accruing	fromsecurities  held as a capital asset or trading assets  fallsunder  s.  8  alone  and  s. 10 should	be  so	read  as  toaltogether   exclude   the  income  from   "   interest	  onsecurities".Counsel	 for the Revenue has referred us to the form of	 theReturn, prescribed under s. 22(1) of the Act at the relevanttime of the assessment under review.  The heads there  shownare  (1) Salary, (2) Interest on securities,  (3)  Property,(4) Business, profession or vocation, (5) other sources, andincome from each source is to be shown in a separate column,in each one of which reference is made to a particular	noterelevant  to that head of income.  In the column  under	 thehead  "interest on securities" reference is made to  note  9which is in the following words:"Interest on securities" means interest on promissory  notesor  bonds  issued by the Government of India  or  any  otherState  Government  or the interest on  debentures  or  othersecurities  issued by or on behalf of a local  authority  orcompany.   The gross amount before deduction  of  income-taxshould be entered.Entries	 under	this head should be accompanied	 by  personspaying	the  interest  under  section  18(9)  of  the	Act.Deductions are allowable in respect of-(a)  Commission	 charged  by  a banker	for  collecting	 theinterest.(b)  Interest  payable on money borrowed for the purpose  ofinvestment in the securities except certain interest payableto persons abroad from which tax has not been deducted	(seesection	 8 of the Act for details).  Full particulars (in  aseparate  statement  if necessary) should be  given  of	 anydeduction claimed."This  is  a statutory form and it gives what is meant  by  "interest  on securities ", what documents are  to  accompanythe  Return in order to entitle an assessee to claim  refundand what deductions are to be made."The mandatory character of s. 6 is indicated by the languageemployed  in  that section and the phraseology	of  all	 thesections following, i.e., 7 to 12, employing the words " thetax shall be payable under88the  head................... in respect of "  the  differentand distinct heads of income, profits and gains, salaries  "Interest on securities ", and "property ", business etc.  isindicative  of the intention of the legislature	 making	 thevarious	  heads	 of  income,  profits  and  gains   mutuallyexclusive.   So every item of income, whatever	its  source,would fall under one particular head and for the purpose  ofcomputing   the	 income	 for  charging	of  income-tax	 theparticular  section dealing with that head will have  to  belooked at.  The various sources of income, profits and gainshave  been so classified that the items falling under  thoseheads become chargeable under ss. 7 to 12 according as	theyare income of which the source is "salaries') " interest  onsecurities  property business, profession or vocation  ",  "other  sources	or  " capital gains ". Looked  at  thus	 thecontention of counsel for the Revenue that under the  schemeof  the	 Act and on a true construction	 of  these  relevantsections"  interest  on securities " by whomsoever  and	 forwhatever  purpose held has to be taxed under s. 8 and  underno other section is well founded and must be sustained.	  Itbeing a specific head of chargeability of tax, income from "interest on securities " whether held as a trading asset  orcapital asset would have to be taxed under s.	  8 and	 notunder s. 10 of the Act.The  amendment made in the proviso to s. 8 in the year	1955allowing a deduction in respect of any remuneration paid  toany  person other than the banker for realising interest  onbehalf of the assessee, supports this interpretation.	Thusthis  proviso  now provides that reasonable  amount  can  bededucted  by  an assessee for commission paid to a  Bank  orremuneration paid to anybody else for realising interest  onits  behalf  which clearly indicates the  intention  of	 thelegislature  that interest on securities specifically  fallsunder s. 8 and under no other section.	This amendment showsthat  even  a Bank, if it buys securities as a part  of	 itstrading	 assets,  is  entitled	to  make  a  deduction	 forremuneration paid by it to any person for realising interestwhich  postulates that "interest on securities"	 would	fallunder s, 8 of the Act,89This  interpretation  receives	further	 support  from	 thelanguage  of s. 18 which deals with payment after  deductionat source.  Section 18(3) requires a person responsible	 forpaying	" interest on securities " to deduct income  tax  onthe  amount of the interest payable at the maximum rate	 andthe  person so responsible is required, after  deduction  ofthe  income-tax,  to  pay  to the  account  of	the  CentralGovernment  within  7  days of the  deduction,	the  sum  sodeducted  and  under  s. 18(5) the maximum  rate  is  to  becharged for the year in which the the amount is paid and notat the rate of the assessment year.A combined reading of ss. 3,4,6, 8,10,18 and refund section,s. 48, shows that income-tax is to be charged at the rate orrates  prescribed in the Finance Act on the total income  ofthe assessee as defined in s. 2(15) of the Act and  computedin  the manner given in as. 7 to 12 which are  not  chargingsections  but are provisions for the computation of "  totalincome	".  In the words of Viscount  Dunedin  in  SalisburyHouse Estate v. Fry(1):" Now, the cardinal consideration in my judgment is that theincome	tax  is	 only one tax, a tax on the  income  of	 theperson	whom it is sought to assess, and that the  differentschedules are modes in which the Statute directs this to  belevied ".As  has	 been  pointed out in that  judgment  there  are  noseparate taxes under the various schedules but only one tax.But  in order to arrive at the total income on which tax  isto  be	charged	 "  you have to	 consider  the	nature,	 theconstituent  parts, of his (assessee's) income to see  whichschedule you are to apply." If these words may be used	withreference to the language of the Indian Act, we have to lookat  the source of " income, profits and gains" and then	 seeunder what head it appropriately and specifically falls	 andif it falls under one particular head then computation is tobe made under the section which covers that particular	headof income.  We cannot treat any one of the sections from ss.7 to 10 to be general or specific for the purpose of any oneparticular source of income.  The(1)  (1930)15 T.C.266,306.90language shows that they are all specific and deal with	 thevarious heads in which the item of income, profits and gainsin the case of an assessee falls.Sir George Rankin in Commissioner of Income Tax v.  ChunilalB. Mehta(l) said:" The effect of s. 6 is to classify profits and gains, underdifferent  heads  for  the purpose  of	providing  for	eachappropriate rules for computing the amount; its language  is" shall be chargeable in the manner hereinafter appearing."One of the heads is " business ", which as a head of  incomestands	 alongside   salaries,	 interest   on	 securities,professional   earnings	 and  other  sources.	 True,	 theclassification	of income is according to the  character  ofthe  source   But the list of " heads in s. 6 is a  list  ofsources	 not in the sense of attributing the income  to	 oneproperty  rather  than	another, one  business	rather	thananother, but only in the sense of attributing it to propertyas  distinct from employment, or business as  distinct	frominvestment............	 What  is  to  be  learnt  from	  anexamination  of the language of sub-s. (1) of  s.  4-income,profits	 and  gains,  described or comprised in	 s.  6	fromwhatever  source  derived-is  that  s.	6  is  intended	  asdescribing different kinds of profitsIn  that  case	the  question for  decision  was  whether  aresident  carrying  on	business in  India  and	 controllingtransactions  abroad  in  the course of	 such  business	 wasliable to income tax on such transactions, it was held	thatthe profits arising under such transactions do not arise  oraccrue in India merely because of control by the assessee inIndia.	The judgment of the Privy Council shows what s. 6 ofthe Act means-each head refers to income, profits and  gainsattributable  to the source-salary, interest on	 securities,property,  business,  profession  etc.	 This  supports	 thecontention  of	each  head  being  separate,  exclusive	 andspecific.Decided cases all support the contention of counsel for	 theRevenue that the various heads of income enumerated in s.  6of the Act and more particularly(1)  [1938] 6 I.T.R. 521, 529.91dealt with in ss. 7 to 12 are exclusive heads and if an itemof  income falls under one of these heads then it has to  betreated for the purpose of income tax under that head and noother.	 In  Salisbury	House Estate Ltd.  v.  Fry  (1)	 theassessee  was  a limited company which was  formed  for	 theexpress	 purpose of acquiring Salisbury House and  utilisingit.  In this building there were 800 rooms which were let totenants.  The company also maintained a staff of servants torender	various	 kinds of services to the occupants  of	 therooms.	The company was assessed to income tax under Sch.  Aupon gross valuation of the premises and as the actual	rentreceived  was  higher, the Revenue wanted to  assess  incomeagain  under Sch.  D. The company contended that so  far  asthe proceeds of the property were concerned they had alreadybeen taxed under Sch.  A and could not again be brought	 "incomputo"  under Sch.  D.Viscount Dunedin at p. 306 observed:"  Now,	 if the income of the assessee consists in  part  ofreal  property	you are, under the Statute, bound  to  applySch.  A ".Lord Atkin at p. 319 said:"  the	dominance of each Sch.	A, B, C & E  over  its	'ownsubject matter is confirmed by reference to the Sections andRules  which respectively regulate them in the Act of  1842.They  afford  a	 complete code for  each  class	 of  income,dealing	 with  allowances and exemptions, with the  mode  ofassessment, and with the officials whose duty it is to	makethe assessments. ............ .....................I find noground	for  assessing the taxpayer under Sch.	 D  for	 anyproperty or gains which are the subject matter of the  otherspecific Schedules."At  p.	320,  he pointed out that Sch.	 D  is	a  residuarySchedule   and	 all  Schedules	 are   mutually	  exclusive.Referring to investments in securities he said:Income derived by a trading company from investments of	 itsfunds,	 whether  temporary  or	 permanent,  in	  governmentsecurities must be taxed under(1)  (1930) 15 T.C. 266.92Sch.   C,  and cannot for the purposes of  assessment  underSch.  D be brought into account."This  shows  that  even	 though	 Sch.	D  is  residual	 allSchedules  are mutually exclusive and if income falls  underone  Schedule,	it  must be  assessed  under  that  Schedulebecause the Schedules are a complete code for each class  ofincome, dealing with, allowances and exemptions and with themode  of assessment.  A significant passage in the  judgmentof Lord Atkin (at p. 321) is:"  I find it difficult to say that companies  which  acquireand  let  houses for the purposes of their  trade,  such  asbreweries  in respect of their tied tenants, and  collieriesand  other  large employers of labour in  respect  of  theiremployees,  do	not  let  the  premises	 as  part  of  theiroperation of trading.  Personally I prefer to say that	evenif they do trade in letting houses their income so far as itis  derived  from that part of their trading must  be  taxedunder Sch.  A and not Sch.  D."Thus  even  though the assessee was a  company	carrying  onbusiness  or  trade, income from the head " property  "	 wastaxed under Sch.  A and not Sch.  D. This case supports	 thecontention   that  different  Schedules	  being	  distinctlyapplicable  to each individual head of income would  excludethe applicability of any other head.In  Butler  v.	The Mortgage Company of Egypt  Ltd.  (1),  aBritish company controlled in Egypt was carrying on businessof  lending  money on mortgage of land in Egypt	 or  on	 thesecurity  of  debentures by mortgage of land.	In  case  ofdefault	 the bank could take action in the  Egyptian  Courtseither	to  sell the property or to take possession  with  aview  to future sale.  The General Commissioners  held	thatthe  acceptance	 of ,securities for money lent was  only  anincident  of the company's business and that income was	 notassessable under Case 4 of Sch.	 D. The company claimed thatthe  assessment	 should be under Case 5 of Sch.	 D  and	 notCase  4.  It was held that the Crown had the  right  to	 taxunder Case 4 but even if the assessee satisfies(1)  (1928) 13 T.C. 803, 809, 810.93that Case 5 is also applicable it was still for the Crown todecide	and  tax under Case 4 provided	both  cases  appliedequally.  Rowlatt J. said:"A  banker  could never ask to be repaid the tax  which	 hadbeen deducted from the Government securities which he  held,because he held them as a banker, the point being that	whenyou  have once got a security (we will say) the interest  onwhich is taxed by the Act, you cannot get out of it  becauseyou say that you look a little further and see this is	onlyembedded in a business."It means in terms of the Indian Statute that in the case  ofinterest  on  securities  if  chargeable  under	 a  specificsection,  the  assessee even though he is  a  banker  cannotclaim that they be treated as "business income."in Thompson v. The Trust and Loan Company of Canada (1), therespondent company carried on business as a loan and financecompany.   During  the	material years	the  company  boughttreasury bonds cum-coupons and on the same day sold bonds ofthe same nominal value retaining the coupons and received onencashment a half year's interest under deduction of  incometax.   The Crown contended that in computing  the  Company'sprofits for assessment to income tax under Case I of Sch.  Dthere, should be included, as receipts, the amounts realisedby the sale of bonds ex-coupons and the net proceeds of	 thecoupons	 and,  as  disbursements, the amounts  paid  by	 thecompany for the bonds cum-coupons.  But it was held that theinterest  received by the company was income of the  companytaxed  by  deduction under Sch.	 C and that no part  of	 theproceeds   of  the  coupons  should  be	 included   in	 thecomputation  of	 the  company's	 liability  under  Sch.	  D.Rowlatt J. at p. 400 said:"  The	Crown cannot treat a transaction which has  its	 owncharacter for income tax purposes as if it were something ofa  different character..."and Lord Hanworth M.R. at p. 406 put the matter thus:(1)  (1932) 16 T.C. 394.94Now in the present case it is plain that this subject matterof  tax,  government bonds and coupons payable	out  of	 thegovernment  funds, have got to be taxed under Sch.  C;	theycannot be taxed anywhere else."In  Volume I of Simon's Income Tax (1948 Ed.) p. 54 the	 lawis thus stated:"  These  Schedules are prima facie mutually  exclusive	 andconsequently if a particular kind of income is charged underone  Schedule  the  Crown cannot elect to  charge  it  underanother."  This	 is in accord with the	decisions  discussedabove.The  Commercial Properties Ltd. v. Commissioner	 of  Income-tax, Bengal(1) was a case of a registered company whose soleobject	was to acquire lands,, build houses and let them  totenants,  the  sole  business  of  the	company	 being	 themanagement and collection of rents from the properties.	 Theassessment  was made under s. 9 of the Act but	the  companyclaimed	 that  they were carrying on a	business  assessableunder  s.  10 and not under s. 9. The Court  held  that	 thecompany	 was rightly assessed under s. 9, its  income  beingderived from its ownership of buildings.Rankin C. J. said at p. 26:"  In my judgment the words of s. 6 and s. 9 and s. 10	mustbe  read so as to give some effect to the contrast  that  isthere made between income, profits and gains from " property" and from " business "	 and I entirely refuse my assent  tothe proposition that because it happens that the owner of  aproperty  is a company which has been. incorporated for	 thepurpose	 of  owning  such  property,  therefore	 the  incomederived	 from " property must be regarded as income  derivedfrom  business	".  In my judgment, income  derived  from  "property  is  a	 more specific category	 applicable  to	 thepresent case".The  decision in this case shows that the ownership  of	 thehouse  property	 was not considered as "business"  and	thatincome derived from such source would more specifically	 andappropriately fall within the head "property".(1)  (1928) 3 I.T.C. 23.95The  applicability of s. 8 directly arose and was  discussedin  H. C. Kothari v, Commissioner of Income-tax,  Madras(1).The  assessees in that case had several sources	 of  income,one  of which was interest on securities.  The	business  ofthe assessees showed a loss but the assessees claimed earnedincome	relief in respect of interest on securities  on	 theground that securities, which they had purchased and sold aspart of their business, formed their stock-in-trade and	 theinterest therefrom should be treated as "business"  profits.But s. 8 of the Act was held applicable to the facts of thatcase.Satyanarayana Rao, J. said"of  the	 Act which deals with interest on  securities  is  aseparate  and distinct head, and if an income is  chargeableunder that head, it is not open either to the assessee or tothe department to change the head and claim to tax it  undera different head....It   was  also	pointed	 out  in  this	judgment   followingCommissioner  of  Income_tax v. Bosotto Bros.  (2)  that  ifincome	falls under more than one head the assessee has	 theoption	to  choose the head which makes the  burden  on	 hisshoulders lighter.The  following two cases were relied upon by the  assessee:-(1) Mangalagiri Sri Umamaheshwara Gin and Rice Factory	Ltd.v.  Guntur Merchants Gin and Rice Factory Ltd. (3)  where  alimited company incorporated for the purpose of milling riceleased out the buildings, plant, machinery etc., to  anothercompany for a fixed annual rent.  The lessees were to do thenecessary repairs to keep the mill in good working conditionand the lessors were to bear the loss of depreciation.	 Theassessee  company  claimed the allowances  for	depreciationunder  s.  10(2)  (vi) of the Act.  It	was  held  that	 thecompany was carrying on the business of letting a rice	milland  as such was entitled to a deduction  for  depreciation.The  judgment of Krishnan, J., shows that it was clear	fromthe  facts  of	the case that the company  was	carrying  onbusiness(1) [1951] 20 I.T.R. 579, 587.	(3) (1926) 2 I.T.C. 251.(2)  [1940] 8 I.T.R. 41.96of  letting  the  mill for the purpose of  being  worked  bylessees and it was under these circumstances that s. 10 was-held   applicable.   The  other	 case  is  Sadhucharan	 RoyChowdhry,  In re (1) the facts of which were similar to	 thefacts of Mangalagiri Sri Umamaheshwara Gin and Rice  FactoryLtd. v. Guntur Merchants Gin and Rice Factory Ltd.  (supra).It was held that letting of a Jute Press at rent was as mucha business as the letting of a ship to freight or letting ofmotor-car  or  any other kind of machines or  machinery	 forhire, and therefore allowances for depreciation were allowedlike in Mangalagiri's case (supra).  Neither of these  casesthrows any light on the question now before us.The  appellant's contention that looking at the real  natureand character of the source of income arising from "intereston  securities"	 in the case of the  present  assessee,	 theBank, s. 10 of the Act would apply and not s. 8 can  receiveno  support from the decision in Davies v. Braithwaite	(2).That  was  a  case where an actress  earned  her  living  byaccepting  and	fulfilling  professional  engagements,	 heractivities  being  acting  in  stage-plays  in	England	 andAmerica,  performing for the films and on the  wireless	 andperforming  for	 gramophone companies.	These were  held  tofall under Sch.	 D and not E as whatever contracts she	madewere   nothing	 but  incidents	 in  the  conduct   of	 herprofessional career.  The use of the following words by	 SirGeorge Rankin in Commissioner of Income-tax v. ChunilalB.   Metha (3):But the list of "heads" in s. 6 is a list of sources not  inthe sense of attributing the income to	.............	 onebusiness rather than another but only in     the  sense	  ofattributing it to business as distinct from investment."  isno surer foundation for saying that " interest on securities" is severable into income from securities held as a capitalinvestment  and	 income from those held as  trading  assets.The  language of ss. 6, 8 and 10 is destructive of any	suchcontention.(1)  [1935] 3 I.T.R. 114.(2)  [1931] 2 K.B. 628.(3) [1938] 6I.T.R. 521, 529.97Thus  on a true construction of the various sections of	 theAct  the income of an assessee is one and the various ss.  7to 12 are modes in which the Statute directs that income-taxis  to be levied and these sections are mutually  exclusive.The  head  of income of which the source is  "	interest  onsecurities   "	has  its'  characteristics  for	  income-taxpurposes  and falls under the specific head covered by s.  8of  the Act, and where an item falls specifically under	 onehead  it  has to be charged under that head  and  no  other.This interpretation follows from the words used in ss. 6,  8and  10	 which	must be read so as to  give  effect  to	 thecontrast  between " income, profits and gains  "  chargeableunder  the  head  " interest on	 securities  "	and  income,profits	 and gains " chargeable under the head	business  ".Thus  on  this construction the various heads of  "  income,profits	 and gains " must be held to be mutually  exclusive,each  head being specific to cover the item arising  from  aparticular  source.  It cannot, therefore, be said that	 quathe  assessee  in the present case and for  the	 purpose  ofsecurities  held  by  it, s. 8 is more specific	 and  s.  10general	 or  vice-versa, and therefore no  question  of	 theapplicability  of the principle " generalia specialibus	 nonderogant  "  arises.  This finds support  from	the  decidedcases  which  have  been  discussed  above.   Thus  both  onprecedent and on a proper construction, the source of income"  interest  on securities " would fall under s. 8  and	 notunder s. 10 as it is specifically made chargeable under	 thedistinct head " interest on securities " falling under s.  8of the Act and cannot be brought under a different head eventhough	the  securities are held as a trading asset  in	 thecourse	of  its business by a banker.  In this view  of	 thematter no question of exercise of option by the assessee  orthe Revenue arises.  Consequently Lord Shaw's observation inThe Liverpool and Land Globe Insurance v. Bennett (1): "  It	appears	 to  me that  this  selection  is  not	onlyjustified  in law but is founded upon the soundest and	mostelementary principles of business,"(1)  (1913) 6 T.C. 327, 376.98will  be inapplicable to the facts of the present case,	 andso  also the rule as to choosing the head which	 imposes  onthe assessee's shoulders burden which is highter as given inCommissioner  of  Income-tax v. Bosotto Bros.,	(supra)	 andreiterated  in H. C. Kothari v. Commissioner of	 Income-tax,Madras (supra).To  the third point raised by counsel for the assessee	thateven  if interest on securities falls under s. 8 of the	 Actand not under s. 10 the assessee is entitled to 'Yet a	set-off  under s. 24(2) of the Act, counsel for the Revenue	 hastaken  the objection that this plea is not available to	 theappellant  because it was not placed before the	 Income	 TaxAppellate Tribunal for being referred to the High Court	 norwas  it raised before the High Court.  How the question	 wasspecifically  raised before the Income Tax Officer  and	 theAppellate  Assist.  ant	 Commissioner and  also	 before	 theIncome	Tax Appellate Tribunal has already  been  mentioned.In  its application to the Tribunal for stating the case  tothe  High  Court  the assessee specifically  raised  in	 twosuggested  questions its right to set off the business	lossof  Rs.	 3,21,929  brought forward from	 the  previous	yearagainst	 the income of the assessee in the assessment  year.It does not appear from the judgment of the High Court	thatthe question was argued in the manner it has been debated inthis court.  The appellant seems to have rested his case  onthe  applicability  of s. 10 to the profits under  the	head"interest  on  securities" because of the  securities  beingtrading assets but this contention was repelled and the samequestion  has  been raised before us but  the  assessee	 nowsupports  his case on an alternative argument that  even  ifthe  securities fall under s. 8 still the profits from	thatsource	are  from  an item of the  assessee's  business	 andtherefore  the	loss of the previous year from	the  bankingbusiness of the assessee can be set off against the  profitsof  the	 assessment  year whatever be  the  source  of	thatprofit.	  The case is similar to the one in Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  v.	Messrs.	 Ogale Glass Works  Ltd.  (1).	 Thequestion framed by the Tribunal is a general one and what isto be determined is whether(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 185, 196, 198.99the  loss  of the previous year can be set off	against	 theincome	of the assessment year within the provisions  of  s.24(2) of the Act.  The question is wide enough to cover	 thepoint  raised before us.  In the circumstances of this	casethe third point, raised by counsel for the assessee, is opento be canvassed before us.Counsel	 for the Revenue contends that the words used in  s.24(2) were " the same business " and therefore this  set-offwould be allowable only against any profits or gains of	 thegame  business and no other business.  He  further  contendsthat  the scheme of s. 24(1) and (2) shows that profits	 andgains  must be arising under s. 10 and not under  any  othersection	 because  the expression used is  profits  or  gainswhich  goes  with " business " under s. 10 and	cannot	havereference to income, profits and gains arising from intereston securities " which are under s. 8 of the Act.Counsel for the assessee on the other hand submits that	 theuse  of	 the  word " same " signifies the  identity  of	 thebusiness in which the loss has occurred and has no referenceto  the	 head under which the profits  are  chargeable.	  Inother words interest does not cease to be profits and  gainsof  the	 same  business merely because for  the	 purpose  ofchargeability  it falls under a different head, i.e.,  unders. 8 and not under s. 10.  Section 24 of the Act deals	withthe set-off of loss in computing the aggregate income.He  also contends that the business which the  assessee	 wascarrying on was the business of dealing in money and  creditand  that banking and dealing in securities  constitute	 oneand the same business.	He refers to s. 277 F of the  IndianCompanies  Act and relies on the Privy Council	decision  inPunjab	Co-operative  Bank  Ltd.  v.  The,  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  Punjab(1) in which it was pointed out  that  inthe  ordinary case 'of a bank the business consists  in	 itsessence	 of dealing with money and credit.  The	 banker	 hasalways	to keep enough cash or easily realisable  securitiesto  meet any probable demand by depositors, and if  some  ofthe securities are realised to meet(1)  [1940] 8 I.T.R. 635.100withdrawals by depositors, this is clearly a normal step  incarrying on the banking business.  It is an act done in whatis truly carrying on of the banking business.In  view of the order we propose to make, we do not find  itnecessary   to	express	 any  opinion  on   the	  respectivecontentions  raised by counsel for the parties.	  In  PunjabCo-operative  Bank's case (supra) a finding had	 been  giventhat  the  purchase and sale of securities was as  much	 theassessee's  business as receiving deposits from clients	 andwithdrawals by them.  In the case before us no such  findinghas been given and in the absence of such finding no opinioncan be given as to whether the holding of securities out  ofwhich interest was derived formed part of the same  businesswithin s. 24(2) or not.The appeal would therefore, be allowed and the case remittedto  the	 High Court for a fresh decision  of  the  referenceafter getting from the Tribunal a fuller statement of  factsabout  this  part  of the case, whether	 the  securities  inquestion  were	a  part of the trading assets  held  by	 theassessee in the course of its business as a banker.The  costs  of this appeal will be costs  in  the  referencebefore the High Court.Appeal allowed.	 Case remitted.101