PETITIONER:HARISH CHANDRA BAJPAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:TRILOKI SINGHDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/12/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  444		  1957 SCR  370ACT:Election  Dispute-Petition  grounded  on  corrupt  PracticesMatter,	 if  of	 wider	import	than'	Particulars'-Trial',meaning	 of-Procedure if  includes  Power's--Amendment,	 if'and when permissible-Power of Election Tribunal-Person, whencan be said to be employed for Purposes of election-Contractof   service   and   contract	for    services-Distinction-Representation	of the People Act (XLIII of 1951),  ss.	 81,83, cls. (1), (2) & (3), 90(2), 92, 123 cls.(7)	  & (8)-Codeof Civil -Procedure (Act V of 1908), 0. VI, r. 17.HEADNOTE: The  respondent  filed	 a  petition  under  s.	 81  of	 theRepresentation of the People Act challenging the election ofthe appellants to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly  onthe  ground that they had committed corrupt  practices,	 thematerial allegations			    371being, (1) that the appellants " could in the furtherance oftheir  election	 enlist the support  of	 certain  Governmentservants  ", and (2) that the appellant No. 1  had  employedtwo  persons  in  excess of the prescribed  number  for	 hiselection  purposes.   No  list	of  particulars	 of  corruptpractices  under  S. 83(2) Of the Act was  attached  to	 thepetition.  Thereafter the respondent applied under s.  83(3)Of  the Act for an amendment of his petition by	 adding	 thenames of certain village Headmen (Mukhias) as having  workedfor the appellants and later on become their polling agents.The  Election Tribunal allowed the amendment, when  a  freshpetition  on those allegations would have been	time-barred,holding	 that what were sought to be introduced by  it	were'mere particulars of the charge already made, and held	thatcorrupt	 practices  under  ss. 123(8) and  123(7)  had	beencommitted  by the appellants.  It accordingly  declared	 theelection  void	under  S.  100(2)(b) of	 the  Act.   It	 wascontended  on  behalf of the appellants	 that  the  ElectionTribunal  had no power either under s. 83(3) Of the  Act  orunder  0. VI, r. 17 Of the Code of Civil Procedure to  allowthe amendment in question and its finding that the appellantNo.  I	had  employed the two persons  in  addition  to	 theprescribed number was misconceived in law.Held,  that  although the term 'matter' in S. 83(3)  was  ofwider import than 'particulars I to be stated under s. 83(2)and  would comprehend the grounds on which the election	 wassought	to  be	set aside, s. 83(3) was	 not  an  exhaustiveprovision  on the power of amendment, its application  beinglimited to allegations of corrupt and illegal practices, andthat,  therefore, in respect of other matters, the power  ofamendment under 0. VI, r. 17, read with s. 90(2) of the	 Actwas  not  excluded,  and  the  maxim  expression    exclusioalterius, would not apply.The  word 'trial' in s. 90(-2) of the Act is used in a	widesense  as  including  the  entire  proceedings	before	 theTribunal  from the time when the petition is transferred  toit  under  s. 86 of the Act till the  pronouncement  of	 itsaward.There  is no antithesis between 'procedure' in s. 90(2)	 andpowers' in s. 92 of the Act and Where an. application  wouldlie to the Tribunal under s. 90(2) it would have' the  powerto pass, the necessary order on it.The  object of the legislature in enacting s. 92 of the	 Actwas  to place the powers of the Tribunal in respect  of	 thematters	 mentioned therein as distinguished from  the  otherprovisions of the Code, on a higher footing.Sitaram v. Yograjsing, A.I.R. (1953) Bom. 293, approved.Jagan  Nath v. Jaswant Singh, (1954) S. C. R. 892,  referredto.Sheo  Mahadeo Prasad v. Deva Sharan, A. I. R.  (1955  PatanaSi, disapproved.372While the Election Tribunal had undoubtedly the power  unders. 83(3) of the Act to allow an amendment. in respect of anyparticulars  of illegal and corrupt practices, or to  permitnew  instances	to  be included,  provided  the	 grounds  orcharges were specifically stated in the petition, its  powerto amend a petition under 0. VI, r. 17 Of the Code of  CivilProcedure could not be exercised so as to permit new groundsor charges to be raised or the character of the petition  tobe  so	altered as to make it in substance a  new  petition,when  a fresh petition on those allegations would  be  time-barred.Beal  v. Smith, (1869) L. R. 4 C. P. 145; Greenock  ElectionCase,  (1869)  L. R. 4 C. P. 150  (footnote);  CarrickfergusCase,  (1869) 1 O'M. & H. 264; Dublin Case, (1869) 1 O'M.  &H.  270	 and  Maude v. Lowley, (I 874) L. R. 9	C.  P.	165,referred to.Chayan	Das  v. Amir Khan, [192O) L. R. 47 1.  A.  255,	 notfollowed.Held  further, that the amendment introduced a	new  charge,altered	 the  character of the petition and was	 beyond	 thepowers	of the Tribunal and necessary evidence had not	beenadduced to support a finding as to the additional employmentand no corrupt practices either under cl. (7) or: (8) Of  S.I23 had, therefore, been committed.In  deciding  the  question  as to  whether  any  person  inaddition  to  the  number  permitted by	 the  Act  had	beenemployed by a candidate for his election purposes, the well-established distinction between a contract for services	 anda  contract of service must be borne in mind and in  absenceof  any evidence to show that the contract with	 the  personengaged	 was  one  of service,-that he was to  do  the	Workpersonally,  with or without the assistance: of others,	 liecould not be held to have been employed in law.Collins	 v. Hertfordshire Central Council, (1947) K. B.	 598and   Dhayangadhara   Chemical	Works  Ltd.  v.	  State	  ofSaurashtra, (1957)S.	 C. R. 152, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION	   Civil  AppEal  No.333  of1956.Appeal by special leave against the judgment and order datedMarch  23,  1955,  of the  Election  Tribunal,	Lucknow,  inElection Petition No. 320 of 1952.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor General of India, R. C.  Gupta,J. S. Trivedi and S. S. Shukla, for the appellant.K.   S.-  Krishnaswamy Iyengar, S. P. Sinha and R.  Patnaik,for respondent No. 1.			    3731956.  December 21.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AIYAR  J.-This is an appeal  by  special  leaveagainst	 the  order  of	 the  Election	Tribunal,  Faizabad,declaring the election of the appellants to the	 LegislativeAssembly,   Uttar   Pradesh   from   the   Lucknow   CentralConstituency, void under s. 100(2)(b) of the  Representationof the People Act No. XLIII of 1951, hereinafter referred toas   the   Act.	  The  Constituency   is   a   double-memberConstituency.  one of the seats being reserved for a  memberof the Scheduled Castes.  The -polling, took place on  31-1-1952,  and the two appellants we-re declared  elected,	theyhaving	secured	 the largest number of votes.  On  -June  101952, the respondent herein filed a petition under S. 81  ofthe Act alleging that the appellants had committed a  numberof corrupt practices, and prayed that the election might  bedeclared wholly void.The  appellants	 filed	written.  statements  denying  theseallegations,  and  on the pleadings, issues were  framed  onJanuary	  17,  1953.   Then  followed  quite  'a  spate	  ofproceedings, consisting of applications for framing of freshissues	for  better  particulars and for  amendment  of	 theelection  petition, to which a more detailed reference	willpresently be made.  As a result of these proceedings, it wasnot until September, 1954, that the hearing of the  petitionbegan On March 23, 1955, the Tribunal delivered its judgmentand,  by  a  majority,	it set aside  the  election  on	 twogrounds, (1) that the appellants had obtained the assistanceof four village officers, Mukhias, in furtherance of.  theirelection  prospects and had thereby contravened s.123(8)  ofthe  Act; and (2) that the first appellant had employed	 forpayment	 in  connection with high election  two	 persons  inaddition  to'  the number permitted by Rule  118  read	withSchedule VI, 'namely, Ganga Prasad and Viswanath Pande,	 andhad there by infringed s. 123(7) of the Act.  Before us, theappellant's  dispute the correctnes's of the conclusions  onboth these points.As  regards  the  first point, the main	 contention  of	 theappellants that the charge that they had employed374four Mukhias in furtherance of their, election prospects wasnot pleaded in the petition as originally presented and thatit  came in only by an amendment dated	November  28,  1953,that. the Tribunal had no power to order that amendment, andthat,	accordingly,   the   finding   thereon	 should	  bedisregarded.  It is necessary for a correct appreciation  ofthe contentions on either side to state the facts leading tothis amendment.The material allegations in the petition as it was presentedon  June  10, 1952, are contained in para 7(c), and  are  asfollows:"That  the respondents Nos. 1 and 2 could in furtherance  oftheir  election	 enlist the support  of	 certain  Governmentservants.   The District Magistrate, Lucknow, organised	 theopening	 of  eye  relief camps,	 and  these  functions	wereutilised for the election propaganda of the respondents Nos.1  and	2. An eye relief camp was proposed to be  opened  onDecember 16, 195 1, at Kakori by Sri C. B. Gupta,  Minister,Civil  Supplies,  U.P., one of the chief organisers  of	 theelection  of  the  respondents Nos. 1  and  2.	An  electionmeeting	 was  advertised by the workers of  the	 respondentsNos.   I  and 2 to be' held within a short distance  of	 theproposed eye relief camp on the same day.  This meeting	 wasamongst others addressed by Sri G. B. Pant, Chief  Minister,U.P., Sri C. B. Gupta and the respondent No. 1. It was	alsoattended  by the Patwaris and Qanungo of the, Kakori  Circleincluding the Tahsildar, Lucknow and the Duty Superintendentof Police, Lucknow."On  December  27, 1951, an eye relief camp  was  similarly.organised and opened at Kakori.	 The ceremony this time	 wasperformed  by  Mrs. Vijay Lakshmi  Pandit  'and	 immediatelythereafter  from  the same platform and at  the	 same  placeelection  speeches  were made and the audience	exhorted  tovote  for  Mrs. Vijay Lakahmi Pandit, a	 candidate  for	 theHouse  of the People from that area and respondents  Nos.  1and   2.  This	meeting	 was  attended	-by,  the   DistrictMagistrate.   Lucknow, Sub Divisional  Magistrate,  Lucknow,Deputy Superintendent of Police, Lucknow,735Tahsildar,  Lucknow  and  Patwaris  and	 Qanungo  of  KakoriCircle.	  The  respondents  Nos.  I and	 2  by	this  devicesucceeded in creating an impression on the voters that	theyhad the support of the district officials.There was no list of particulars attached to the petition asprovided in s. 83 (2) of the Act.On December 15, 1952, the first appellant filed his  writtenstatement,  and therein he stated with reference to  para  7(c)  that  it  was  "wrong and	denied	that  the  answeringrespondent  in	furtherance  of his  election  enlisted	 thesupport of any government servant." He also stated that	 theallegations  were not accompanied by a list, and were  vagueand lacking in particulars and were liable to be struck off.The  written  statement	 of the second	appellant  filed  onDecember  20, 1952, was also on the same lines as  those  ofthe first appellant.  Respondent No. 4, who was' a  defeatedcandidate  and	supported  the respondent  herein,  filed  awritten	 statement on December 3, 1952, wherein	 he  allegedthat  the  appellants  had  obtained  services	of   villageofficers,  such as Lambardars and Sarpanches in	 furtheranceof  their  election  prospects.	 Respondent No.	 9  who	 wasanother defeated candidate also filed a written statement onthe  same day, adopting the allegations in the statement  ofthe fourth respondent adding Mukhias to the list of  villageofficials  whose assistance was procured by the	 Appellants.On  January 10, 1953, the respondent filed a replication  tothe written statements of the appellants, wherein he  statedas follows"As  stated in the petition, the denial of  the	 respondentsNos.  1	 and  2	 is  absolutely	 wrong,	 inasmuch  as	manyGovernment  servants worked for, issued appeals	 and  becamepolling agents for respondents I and 2. In these meetings atKakori	many government servants took part and	some  workedfor furtherance of the election of respondents Nos.  I and 2and  issued  appeals to the public to vote  for	 respondentsNos.  I and 2 and also became their polling agents."On  January  24,  1953,	 the  appellants  filed	 a   writtenstatement objecting to the reception of the replication49376on the ground that the petitioner (respondent) had no  rightto  file  it  and that it was a mere device to	add  to	 theoriginal  petition.  They also filed an application  on	 thesame  date  for	 a preliminary	hearing	 of  certain  issuesrelating to the contentions raised by them in their  writtenstatements  that the allegations in the petition were  vagueand  should be struck off for want of particulars,  and	 thesame was posted for hearing on February 25, 1953.  Argumentswere  heard on these issues on that day and again on  August25,  1953, and the following days, and on October 31,  1953,the  Tribunal  passed  an order striking  off  some  of	 theallegations in the petition and calling upon the  petitionerto give particulars in respect of others.  Dealing with para7 (c) of the petition, the order stated :"  Paragraph 7 (C) is not vague.  It shall remain as it	 is.Corresponding  paragraph of the replication introduces	somenew matters.  Therefore, the same shall be disregarded.	 ThePetitioner has not named ,the Government servants.  He shallsupply	the  names of the officials including those  of	 thePatwaris and Qanungoes."Meantime,  after  the  preliminary  argument  aforesaid	 hadcommenced and before it was concluded, the respondent  filedon  February 27, 1953, an application for amendment  of	 hispetition, the order on which is the main target of attack inthis  appeal.  It was presented under s. 83(3) of  the	Act,and  prayed  that the petitioner " be allowed to  amend	 thedetails	 of para 7(c) by adding the words  Village  Headmen'with  their names and the fact that they worked	 and  issuedappeal	and subsequently they became the -polling agents  ofrespondents  Nos. 1 and 2. It mentioned for the	 first	timethe  names  of the Mukhias whose assistance  the  appellantshave  been  held  to have obtained.   This  application	 wasopposed by -the appellants on the ground that the  amendmentdid not fall within s. 83(3),that, the matters sought to  beintroduced  thereby were new charges, and if admitted,	theywould alter the very character of the petition, and that  itshould	not  be	 granted,  as  a  fresh	 petition  on  thoseallegations  would  be barred on that date.   It  should  bementioned377that  oh  January 22, 1953, respondent No. 4  had  filed  anapplication to raise additional issues on his averments thatthe  appellants	 had obtained assistance  from	the  villageofficers.   That  application  was  also  contested  by	 theappellants.   It would appear that this application and	 theamendment  petition  were heard together.  On  November	 10,1953, the Tribunal by a majority passed an order  dismissingthe  application  of the fourth	 respondent  for  additionalissues.	  'On  November	 28, 1953, it allowed,	again  by  amajority,  the application of the respondent  for  amendmentobserving  that	 the matters sought to	be  introduced	weremerely	particular in respect of the charge set out in	par&7(c) of the petition, "that the respondents I and 2 could infurtherance of their election enlist the support of  certainGovernment  servants", and further that 0. VI, r. 17 of	 theCivil  Procedure Code was applicable to	 proceedings  beforethe Election Tribunal'.The  appellants attack the correctness of  this	 conclusion,and  contend that the Tribunal had no power either under  s.83(3)  or  under  0. VI, r. 171 to order  the  amendment  inquestion.-  They also contend that even if the Tribunal	 hadthe  power to order Amendment, the order in question is	 notjustified on the merits, and is erroneous.  It is  necessaryto set out the statutory provisions bearing on the question:S.81(1).   An  election	 petition calling  in  question	 anyelection  may be presented on one or more grounds  specifiedin sub-ss. (1) and (2) of s. 100 and S. 101 to 'the ElectionCommission by any candidate at such election or any  electorin such form 'and within such time but not earlier than	 thedate  of  publication of the name or names of  the  returnedcandidate  or candidates at such I election under s. 67,  asmay prescribed.S.83(1).   An  election	 petition shall	 contain  a  concisestatement  of  the material facts on  which  the  petitionerrelies and shall be signed by the petitioner and verified inthe  manner laid down in the Code of 'Civil Procedure,	1908(Act V of 1908), for the verification of pleadings.378(2)The	petition shall be accompanied by a list	 signed	 andverified  in like manner setting forth full  particulars  ofany  corrupt  or  illegal  practice  which  the	  petitioneralleges, including as full a statement as possible as to thenames of the parties alleged to have committed such  corruptor illegal practice and the date and place of commission  ofeach such practice.(3)  The  Tribunal  may, upon such terms  as  to  costs	 andotherwise   as	it  may	 direct	 at  any  time,	 allow	 theparticulars included in the said list to be amended or ordersuch further and better particulars in regard to any  matterreferred to therein-to be furnished as may in its opinion benecessary  for the purpose of ensuring a fair and  effectualtrial of the petition.85.If  the  provisions	of s. 81, s. 83 or s.  117  are	 notcomplied  with,	 the Election Commission shall	dismiss	 thepetition. 90  (2).  Subject to the provisions of this Act and of	 anyrules  made  thereunder, every election	 petition  shall  betried  by the Tribunal, as nearly as may be,  in  accordancewith  the  procedure  applicable under	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), to the trial of suits.90  (4).  Notwithstanding anything' contained in s. 85,	 theTribunal  may  dismiss an election petition which  does	 notcomply with the provisions of s. 81,a.	83 or s. 117.92.The Tribunal shall have the powers, which are vested in acourt  under  the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908	 (Act  V  of1908),	when  trying  a suit in respect	 of,  the  followingmatters:(a)  discovery and inspection;(b)  enforcing the attendance of witnesses and requiring thedepositor their expenses;(c)  competing the production of documents;(d)  examining witnesses on oath;(e)  granting adjournments;(f)  reception of evidence taken on affidavit; and(g)  issuing  commissions for the examination of  witnesses,-and  may  summon  and examine suo  motu  any  person  whoseevidence  appears to it to be material; and shall be  deemedto be a civil court within the379meaning	 of  ss.  480  and  482	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898)."Now, we start with this that s. 83(3) grants a power to	 theTribunal to amend particulars in a list.  What is its scope?Is  it open to the Tribunal acting under this  provision  todirect new instances of the corrupt practices to be added tothe list?  And if it is, is that what it did in the  presentcase?	It is contended by the learned Solicitor-General  onbehalf	of the appellants that s. 83(3) does  not  authorizethe  inclusion	of new instances of corrupt  practices,	 andthat  all  that could be ordered under	that  provision	 wasgiving	of fuller particulars in respect of instances  givenin   the  petition.   The  argument  in,  support  of	thiscontention  might thus be stated: Section 81  requires	thatthe  election petition should state the grounds on which  itis founded.  Section 83(1) enacts that it should contain  -aconcise	 statement  of	the  material  facts  on  which	 thepetitioner  relies, and s. 83(2) provides that the  petitionshould be accompanied by a list containing full	 particularsof  the	 corrupt  or  illegal  practices.   When  the  threeprovisions   are  read	together,  it  is  clear  that	 thelegislature  has  made a distinction between grounds  in  s.81(1),	facts ins. 83(1) and full particulars in  s.  83(2);and  in this context, facts in s. 83(1) must mean  instancesof  the	 charge on which the petition is  grounded  and	 theparticulars   referred	to  in	s.  83(3)  can	 only	meanparticulars  in	 respect  of the instances set	out  in	 thepetition  in accordance with s. 83(1).	The  consequence  isthat  an  instance of a corrupt practice not  given  in	 thepetition, cannot be brought in under section 83(3).  On thisreasoning,  it is contended that the order of  the  Tribunaldated November 28, 1953, permitting the respondent to allegethat the appellants obtained the assistance of four Mukhias,whose  names  were  mentioned  for the	first  time  in	 theamendment  petition,  is  outside the  ambit  of  the  powerconferred by s. 83(3).We  are	 unable	 to agree with this contention.	  In  I	 ouropinion,  s.  81(1)  and s. 83, sub-ss. (1)  and  (2),	whencorrectly   understood,	 support  the  contention   of	 therespondent that the Tribunal has authority to380allow an amendment even when that involves inclusion of	 newinstances,  provided they relate to a charge  contained:  inthe  petition.	 Taking	 first s. 81(1), it  enacts  that  apetition may be presented calling an election in question onone of the grounds specified in a. 100, sub-ss. (1) and	 (2)and  section  101.   These sections enumerate  a  number  ofgrounds	 on which the election may be set  aside,  includingthe commission of the corrupt practices mentioned in s.	 123of the Act, and quite clearly it is the different categoriesof  Objections mentioned in s. 100, sub-ss. (1) and (2),  S.101  and s. 123 that constitute the grounds mentioned in  s.81(1).	Then we come to s. 83(1).  It says that the petitionshould	contain a concise statement 'of the material  facts,and that would include facts relating to the holding of	 theelection,  the	result thereof the grounds on  which  it  issought	to  be	set aside, the right of	 the  petitioner  topresent	 the  petition and the like.  Then s.  83(2)  enactsthat  when  there  is an allegation of	corrupt	 or  illegalpractice, particulars thereof' should be given in a separatelist.  If the grounds on which an election' is sought to  beset aside are something other than the commission of corruptor illegal practices, as for example, when it is stated thatthe  nomination	 had  been  wrongly  accepted  or  that	 thereturned  candidate was not entitled to stand for  election,then s. 83(2) has no application, and the requirements of s.83(1)  are  satisfied  when  the  facts	 relating  to  thoseobjections  are	 stated. The facts to be  stated  :under  a.83(1).	are thus different from the particulars -which	haveto  be given -under a. 83(2).  When# therefore, an  electionis challenged on the ground that the candidate hag committedthe  corrupt practices mentioned in section  123,  instancesconstituteing particulars thereof will properly fall  withins.  83(2)  and not a. 83(1).  The result is that  the  powerunder a. 83(3) to allow further and better particulars	willinclude	  a   power  to	 allow	fresh	instances   of	 thecharges,which  form  the grounds on which  the	election  isQuestioned.We are fortified in this conclusion by decisions of  EnglishCourts, on statutory provisions which are in			    381pari  materia  with  our  enactment.   Section	20  of	 theParliamentary  Elections Act, 1868 enacts that	an  electionpetition shall be in such form and state such matters as maybe  prescribed,	 that  is,  by the rules.   Rule  2  of	 theParliamentary  Election	 Rules provides	 that  the  electionpetition  "  shall  state  the holding	and  result  of	 theelection  and  shall  briefly state the	 facts	and  groundsrelied on to sustain the prayer ". Rule 5 gives the form  ofan  election petition and the third paragraph therein is  asfollows." And your petitioners say (here state the facts and groundson which the petitioners rely)."The true scope of these Provisions came up for considerationin  Beal v. Smith (1).	There, the election petition  merelystated that " the respondent by himself and other.  person.%on  his	 behalf, was guilty if bribery, treating  and  undueinfluence."  The respondent took out an application  for  anorder that the petition be taken off the file on the  groundthat  it  merely  stated  the  grounds	but  not  the  factsconstituting  the particulars as required by Rule 2. In	 thealternative,  it was prayed that the petitioners  should  bedirected to give particulars relating to the several corruptpractices.   In	 rejecting the former prayer, Bovill  C.  J.observed:" Now, with regard to the form of the petition, it seems  tome that it sufficiently follows the spirit and intention  ofthe  rules; and no injustice can be done by its	 generality,because ample provision is made by the rules to prevent	 therespondent being surprised or deprived of an opportunity  ofa fair trial, by an order for such particulars as the  judgemay deem reasonable.  I think, therefore, it would be  quiteuseless	 to  require anything further to be  stated  in	 thepetition than appears here."With  reference to the alternative prayer, it was held	thatan order that the particulars be furnished three days  priorto  the	 trial	was a proper one to be	passed.	  A  similardecision  was given in the Greenoch Election Case, a  reportof which is given in a footnote at page 150 of Beal v. Smith(1)(1869) L. R. 4 C- P.145.382These  decisions  establish  that  the	requirement  as	  tostatement of grounds and facts is satisfied when the  chargeon  which the election is sought to be set aside is set	 outin  the petition, that the fare to give therein	 particularsof  corrupt and illegal practices on which it is founded  isnot fatal to its maintainability, and that it is  sufficientif  the	 particulars are ordered to be	furnished  within  areasonable  time before the commencement of the	 trial.	  Onthe same reasoning, the conclusion should follow that s.  81(1)  and a. 83 (1) are complied with, when the	 grounds  onwhich the election is sought to be set aside, are stated  inthe  petition, those grounds being, as already	stated,	 thematters mentioned in s. 100, sub-ss. (1) and (2), s. 101 ands.  123, which is attracted by s. 100 (2) (b), and that	 theparticulars  in	 respect  of those grounds,  when  they	 arecharges	 of corrupt or illegal practices, fall within s.  83(2).   There  is,  it should be	 observed,  nothing  in	 theElection  law  of England corresponding to s.  83  (2),	 thequestion  of particulars being left there to be	 dealt	withunder  the  Rules applicable to the trial  of  causes.	 Theconsequence  is that while under the English  practice,	 thepetitioners are not obliged to state particulars of  corruptpractices in their petition, under s. 83 (2) a statement  ofthose particulars must be made in the petition in a separatelist annexed thereto.  But this difference is more a  matterof  form  than	of  substance, as s.  83  (3)  provides	 forparticulars being called for and furnished in the course  ofthe  proceedings, and does not affect the conclusion  as  tothe  power  of	the Tribunal to allow new  instances  to  bepleaded.Section	 83 (3) provides, it should also be noted,  for	 thelist  of particulars being amended or enlarged.	 It is	not,however, to be inferred from this that when the	 particularsare mentioned in the body of the petition, they could not beamended.   The reference to the list, in a. 83 (3)  must  betaken along with the provision in s. 83 (2) that particularsare to be set out in a list to be attached to the  petition.The substance of the matter, therefore, is that under s.  83(3)  particulars  can be amended and supplemented,  and	 thereason of it requires that the power could be exercised evenwhen			    383the  particulars are contained in the body of the  petition.And  even  when there is no list filed, as  in	the  presentcase,  it  would be competent to the Tribunal  to  allow  anamendment  giving  for the first time instances	 of  corruptpractice,  provided  such corrupt practice has been  made  aground of attack in the petition.One  other  argument urged by the  appellants  against	thisconclusion  must  now  be considered.  It is  based  on	 thelanguage  of  s. 83(3).	 That section, it is  urged,  allowsfirstly by an amendment of the particulars. included in	 thelist,  and  secondly  " further and  better  particulars  inregard	to  any	 matters  referred  to	therein"  and  that,according  to the appellants, means the particulars  alreadygiven  in  the list. it is accordingly	contended  that	 thepower  to  allow  further  and	better	particulars  can  beexercised only in respect of particulars already  furnished,whether they be contained in the body of the petition or  inthe list, and that, therefore, an order permitting inclusionof  new instances is outside the purview of s.	83(3).	 Theassumption  underlying	this  contention is  that  the	word"matter" in s. 83 (3) means the same thing as "particulars".We see no reason why we should put this narrow	constructionon  the	 word "matter".	 That word is, in  our	opinion,  ofwider import than particulars, and would also comprehend thegrounds on which the election is sought to be set aside.  Ifthe construction contended for by the appellant is  correct,the relevant portion of s. 83 (3) will read as " further andbetter particulars in regard to any particulars referred  totherein",  and	that does not appear to us to  be  either  anatural	 or a reasonable reading of the	 enactment.   Havingregard to the scheme of the Act stated above, we think	thats. 83 (3) is intended to clothe the Tribunal with a  generalpower  to  allow  not merely  an  amendment  of	 particularsalready	 given	but  also inclusion  of	 fresh	particulars,pleading  new instances, subject to the condition that	theyare in respect of a ground set out in the petition.  This isin  accordance	with the law and practice obtaining  in	 theElection Courts in England.  Thus,in the Carrickfergus	Case(1), in ordering(1)  [1869] 1 O'M. & H. 264, 265.50384an  application for amending particulars, so as	 to  includematters	 which	had only then come to the knowledge  of	 thepetitioner, O'Brien, J., observed :" In some respects the Petitioner came down here  manifestlyignorant  of  the exact grounds upon which  several  of	 thecharges of the Petition were founded." I therefore thought it reasonable upon a proper case beingmade  out  to  allow the Petitioner to	amend  his  bill  ofparticulars  by adding such facts as only -recently came  tohis  knowledge.	  I  consider that in  the  trial  of  thesepetitions,  where the purity of the election is	 questioned,the  most searching enquiry should be instituted, and it  isthe duty of the Judge to afford every facility in his  powerto that investigation."In the Dublin Case (1), the order was one directing a  list.of particulars to be amended, the Court observing:" I shall allow the utmost 'latitude to amend, unless it  isa  case in which I see that the party kept back	 informationat the time the list was furnished."In this view, the order of amendment in question is not opento attack on the ground that it has permitted new  instancesto  be	raised.	  What	has to	be  seen  is  whether  thoseinstances  are, in fact, particulars in respect of a  groundput  forward  in  the  petition, or  whether  they  are,  insubstance, new grounds of attack.Before dealing with this question, it will be convenient  toconsider   the	 alternative  contention  raised   for	 therespondent -that even if the Tribunal had no power to  orderthe amendment in question under s. 83 (3) of the Act, it wascompetent to do so under o.   VI,  r.  17,  Civil  ProcedureCode,  and  that  this Court should not	 in  special  appealinterfere with the discretion exercised by it in making	 theorder.	 That raises the question which has been  very	muchdebated	 both  in  the Election Tribunals and  in  the	HighCourts	of the States as to whether 0. VI, r. 17 applies  toproceedings  before  Election Tribunals.  Mr. K.  S.  Krish-naswami	 Ayyangar,  learned  counsel  for  the	 respondent,contends  that	it does, by force of s. 90 (2) of  the	Act,under which the Tribunal is to try a petition "as(1)  [1869] 1 O'M. & H. 270, 272.			    385nearly as may be in accordance with the procedure applicableunder  the  Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, to the  trial  ofsuits."	 Now, in A. G. v. Sillem (1) it was stated  by	LordWestbury  that the word "practice"and it means, as  observedin  Poyser  V.	Mixors (2) the same -  thing  as  procedure-denotes	 " the rules that make or guide the  Curcus  cirise,and regulate the proceedings ina cause within the  wallsor  limits  of	the Court itself ".  And  these	 proceedingsinclude all ,steps, which might be taken in the	 prosecutionor defence thereof, including an application for  amendment.In Maude v. Lowley (3), the point arose for decision whetherthe power conferred on the Election Court by s. 21(5) of theCorrupt	 Practices (Municipal Elections) Act, 1872,  to	 trythe petition, subject to the provisions of the Act, as if itwere  a	 cause within its jurisdiction, carried	 with  it  apower to order amendment of the petition.  It was held	thatit did.	 That precisely is the point here.But  it	 is contended for the appellants that 0. VI,  r.  17cannot	be held to apply to proceedings before the  Tribunalby  reason of s. 90 (2), because (1) under that section,  itis only the trial of the election petition that has to be inaccordance with the provisions of the Civil Procedure  Code,and  the question of amendment of the petition relates to  astage anterior to the trial;(2)	   s. 92 enumerates  certainmatters in respect of which the	   Tribunal  is to have	 thepowers of a court under the   Civil  Procedure Code, and  asamendment of pleadings is not one of them, 0. VI, r. 17 mustbe held to have been excluded from its jurisdiction; (3) theAct makes a distinction between procedure and powers, s.  90(2)  extends the provisions of the Civil Procedure  Code  toproceedings  before Tribunals only in respect of  procedure,and  power  to	order amendment under 0. VI, r.	 17  is	 notwithin	the  extension; and (4) s. 90(2) is, in	 any  event,subject	 to  the provisions of the Act and  the	 rules	madethereunder, and the power of amendment under s. 83 (3) beinglimited to particulars, the(1)  [1864] 10 H.L.C. 704,723; II E.R. 1200, 12O9.(2)  [1881]7 Q.B.D. 329,333.(3)  (1874) L.R. 9 CP. 165. 172.386general	 power of amendment under 0. VI, r. 17 must be	heldto have been excluded.	The correctness of these contentionsmust now be examined.(1)Taking the first contention, the point for decision is asto  what the word 'trial' in s. 90 (2) means.  According  tothe appellants, it must be understood in a limited sense, asmeaning	 the  final hearing of the petition,  consisting  ofexamination  of witnesses, filing documents  and  addressingarguments.   According	to the respondent, it  connotes	 theentire	proceedings before the Tribunal from the  time	thatthe  petition  is transferred to it under s. 86 of  the	 Actuntil  the  pronouncement  of the award.   While  the  word'trial' standing by itself is susceptible of both the  narrowand the wider senses indicated above, the question is,	whatmeaning	 attaches to it in s. 90 (2), and to decide that  wemust  have  regard  to the context and the  setting  of	 theenactment.   Now, the provisions of the Act leave us  in  nodoubt as to in what sense the word is used in s. 90(2).	  Itoccurs	in Chapter III which is headed " Trial	of  electionpetitions  ".  Section 86 (4) provides that  if	 during	 thecourse	of the trial any member of a Tribunal is  unable  toperform his functions, the Election Commission is to appointanother member, and thereupon the trial is to be  continued.This provision must apply to retirement or relinquishment bya  member,  even  before  the  hearing	commences,  and	 theexpression " during the course of the trial " must thereforeinclude	 the stages prior to the hearing.  Section 88  againprovides that the trial is to be held at such places as	 theElection  Commission  may  appoint.   The  trial  here	mustnecessarily  include the matters preliminary to the  hearingsuch as the settlement of issues, issuing directions and thelike.	After  the petition is transferred to  the  ElectionTribunal under s. 86,, various steps have to be taken beforethe stage can be set for hearing it.  The respondent has  tofile his written statement ; issues have to be settled.	  If'trial' for the purpose of s. 90(2) is to be interpreted  asmeaning only the hearing, then what is the provision of	 lawunder  which the Tribunal is to call for written  statementsand settle issues ?  Section 90(4) enacts			    387that  when  an election petition does not  comply  with	 theprovisions  of	s.  81, s. 83 or s. 117,  the  Tribunal	 maydismiss	 it.   But  if	it does	 not  dismiss  it,  it	mustnecessarily  have the powers to order rectification  of	 thedefecte	 arising  by  reason  of  non-compliance  with	 therequirements of s. 81, s. 83 or section 117.  That not beinga  power expressly conferred on it under s. 92 can  only  besought	under 'Is. 90(2), and resort to that section can  behad  only  if trial is understood as  including	 proceedingsprior to hearing.  Section 92 enacts that the Tribunal shallhave  powers in respect of various matters which are  vestedin  a  court under the Civil Procedure Code  when  trying  asuit,  and among the matters set out therein  are  discoveryand  inspection,  enforcing  attendance	 of  'witnesses	 andcompelling the production of documents, which clearly do notform  part of the hearing but precede it.  In  our  opinion,the provisions of Chapter III read as a whole, clearly	showthat  'trial'  is  used as meaning  the	 entire	 proceedingsbefore	the  Tribunal  from the time when  the	petition  istransferred to it under s. 86 until the pronouncement of theaward.(2)The	second contention urged on behalf of the  appellantsis  that if the provisions of the Civil Procedure  Code	 areheld  to  be applicable in their entirety to  the  trial  ofelection petitions, then there was no need to provide  unders.  92	that the Tribunal was to have the powers  of  courtsunder the Code of Civil Procedure in respect of the  mattersmentioned therein, as those powers would pass to it under s.90(2).	But this argument overlooks that the scope of s.  90(2)  is in a material particular different from that  of  s.92.   While  under  s. 90(2) the  provisions  of  the  CivilProcedure Code are applicable only subject to the provisionsof  the Act and the rules made thereunder, there is no	suchlimitation as regards the powers conferred by s. 92. It	 wasobviously the intention of the legislature to put the powersof the Tribunal in respect of the matters mentioned in s. 92as distinguished from the other provisions of the Code on  ahigher	pedestal, and as observed in Sitaram v.	 Yoqrajising(1), they are(1)  A.I.R. [1953] BOM. 293.388the irreducible minimum which the Tribunal is to possess.(3)  It	 is  then argued that s. 92 confers  powers  on	 theTribunal  in  respect  of certain matters,  while  s.  90(2)applies	 the  Civil  Procedure Code in	respect	 of  mattersrelating  to procedure, that there is a distinction  betweenpower  and  procedure, and that the  granting  of  amendmentbeing  a  power	 and not a matter of procedure,	 it  can  beclaimed only under s. 92 and not under a. 90(2).  We do	 notsee  any  antithesis  between procedure'  in  s.  90(2)	 and'powers'  under s. 92.	When the respondent applied  to	 theTribunal for amendment, he took a procedural step, and that,he was clearly entitled to do under s. 90(2).  The  questionof  power  arises  only with reference to the  order  to  bepassed	on the petition by the Tribunal.  Is it to  be	heldthat  the presentation of a petition is competent,  but	 thepassing of any order thereon is not?  We are of opinion thatthere is no substance in this contention either.(4)  The last contention is based on the provision in s.   90(2)that the procedure prescribed in the Code of Civil Procedureis  to	apply subject to the provisions of the Act  and	 theRules.	 It is argued that s. 83(3) is a  special  provisionrelating  to amendments, -and that it must be  construed  asexcluding  0.  VI,  r. 17.  The	 result,  according  to	 theappellants,  is	 that if an amendment could not	 be  orderedunder s. 83(3), it could not be ordered under 0. VI, r.	 17.This  contention appears to us to be wholly untenable.	 Thetrue  scope  of the limitation enacted in s.  90(2)  on	 theapplication of the procedure under the Civil Procedure	Codeis  that when the same subject-matter is covered both  by  aprovision  of  the Act or the rules and also  of  the  CivilProcedure  Code, and there is a conflict between  them,	 theformer	is  to	prevail over the  latter.   This  limitationcannot	 operate,  when	 the  subject-matter  of   the	 twoprovisions  is not the same.  Section 83(3) relates only  toamendment  of particulars, and when the amendment sought  isone of particulars, that section will apply to the exclusionof any rule of the Civil Procedure Code which might conflictwith  it, though it does not appear that there is  any	suchrule.  But where the amendment389relatesnot to particulars but to other matters, that is afield  not  occupied  by s. 83(3), and 0.  VI,	r.  17	willapply.The fallacy in the argument of the appellants lies  inthe  assumption that s. 83(3) is a comprehensive   enactmenton the whole subject of amendment, which it clearly is	not.In  this view, there is no scope for the application of	 themaxim,	expressio  unius  exclusio alterius,  on  which	 theappellants rely.  It should be mentioned that the  provisionin s. 83(2) for stating the particulars separately in a listattached  to  the  petition is one peculiar  to	 the  IndianStatute,  and  the  legislature	 might	have  considered  itdesirable  ex  abundanti cautela to provide for a  power  ofamendment  in  respect thereto.	 To such  a  situation,	 themaxim  quoted  above  has no  application.   In	 Maxwell  onInterpretation	of Statutes, Tenth Edition,  pages  316-317,the position is thus stated :"   Provisions	 sometimes  found  in	statutes,   enactingimperfectly  or	 for particular cases only  that  which	 wasalready and more widely the law, have occasionally furnishedground	for  the contention that an intention to  alter	 thegeneral	 law was to be inferred from the partial or  limitedenactment,  resting on the maxim expressio  unius,  exclusioalterius.   But	 that maxim is inapplicable in	such  cases.The  only  inference  which  a	court  can  draw  from	suchsuperfluous provisions (which generally find a place in Actsto  meet unfounded objections and idle doubts), is that	 thelegislature  was  either ignorant or unmindful of  the	realstate  of the law, or that it acted under the  influence  ofexcessive caution."Vide  also Halsbury's Laws of England,	Hailsham's  Edition,Volume	31,  page  506, para 651.   We	are  accordingly  ofopinion that the application of 0. VI, r. 17, Civil ProcdureCode to the -proceedings before the Tribunal is not excludedby a. 83(3).Turning next to the authorities, the decision of this  Courtin Jagan Nath v. Jaswant  Singh (1) goes far to conclude thequestion  in  favour  of the respondent.  In  that  case,  apetition  to  set  aside  an  election	was  filed   withoutimpleading one of the candidates, Baijnath,(1)[1954] S.C.R. 892,390who had been nominated but had withdrawn -from the  contest.That  was  against s. 82 of the Act.   The  respondent	thenapplied	 for an order dismissing the petition on the  groundthat  it  could not go on in the absence of  Baijnath.	 TheTribunal  held	on  this petition that	the  non-joinder  ofBaijnath  was  not  fatal  to  the  maintainability  of	 thepetition, and passed an order directing him to be impleaded.This  order was challenged on the ground that there  was  nopower in the Tribunal to order a new party to be  impleaded.But  this  Court  repelled this contention, and	 held  on  areview of the provisions of the Act including s. 90(2)	thatthe  Tribunal  had the power to pass the order	in  questionunder 0. 1, rr. 9, 10 and 13.  This is direct authority	 forthe  position that trial for purposes of s.  90(2)  includesthe  stages  prior to the hearing of the petition,  and	 theword  I procedure' therein includes power to pass orders  inrespect	 of matters not enumerated in s. 92.  In Sitaram  v.Yograjsingh (1) it was held that 'Procedure' in s. 90(2) andI  powers'  in s. 92 were interchangeable  terms,  that	 theprocedure  applicable  under s. 90(2) was  wider  than	whatwould be applicable to the hearing of a. suit, and that	 theTribunal had power in a proper case to order amendment of  apetition.  In Sheo Mahadeo Prasad v. Deva Sharan(2), it	 washeld  that  the application of 0. VI, r. 17  to	 proceedingsbefore	the  Tribunal was excluded by section 83(3)  of	 theAct.  For the reasons already given, we are unable to  agreewith  this  view.   We	are of	opinion	 that  the  law	 wascorrectly  laid	 down in Sitaram v. Yograjsingh(1),  and  inagreement  with it, we hold that the Tribunal has  power  inappropriate cases to direct amendment of the petition under,O. VI, r. 17.It is next contended for the appellants that even if s.83(3)does not exclude the application of 0. VI, r. 17 to    theproceedings  before the Tribunal, the exercise of the  powerunder  that  rule  must, nevertheless,	be  subject  to	 theconditions  prescribed	by  a. 81  for	presentation  of  anelection petition, that one of those conditions was that  itshould be presented within the(1) A.I.R. [1953] Bom. 293.(2) A.I.R. [1955] Patna 81.391time  allowed  therefor, and that accordingly  no  amendmentshould	be allowed which would have the effect of  defeatingthat  provision.   The decisions in Maude v.  Lowley(1)	 andBirkbeck and others v. Bullard (1) are relied on in  supportof this contention.  In Maude v. Lowley (1), the facts	werethat  an  election  petition was  filed	 alleging  that	 thesuccessful   candidate	had  employed  as  paid	  canvassersresidents  of  the  ward,  and that  the  election  was,  inconsequence,  void.   Then  an	application  was  filed	 foramending  the petition by alleging that residents  of  otherwards were also similarly employed, and that was ordered  byBaron Pollock.	The correctness of this order was questionedon  the	 ground	 that on the date  of  the  application	 foramendment  a  fresh petition on those allegations  would  bebarred, and that therefore the Court had no jurisdiction  topass the order which it did.  In upholding this	 contention,Lord Coleridge C. J. observed that section 21(5) gave  powerto  the	 Court to amend the petition, that  that  power	 wassubject	 to  the provisions of the Act, that  one  of  thoseprovisions was s. 13(2), which prescribed- the period withinwhich an election petition could be filed, that the power ofamendment could be exercised only subject to this provision,and that accordingly an amendment which raised a new  chargeshould be rejected if a fresh petition on that charge  wouldbe  barred on that date.  He also observed that	 the  matterwas  not  one of discretion but of jurisdiction.   This	 wasfollowed in Clark v. Wallond (3).  In Birbeck and others  v.Bullard	 (2)  the application was to amend the	petition  byadding	a new charge, and it was held tha that could not  bedone after the expiry -of the period of limitation fixed  inthe  Act for filing an election petition, and  the  decisionwas put on the ground that the power to grant amendment	 was" subject to the provisions of the Act."On  these  authorities, it is contended for  the  appellantsthat  even  if the Tribunal is held to possess	a  power  toorder amendments generally under 0. VI,(1)  [1874] L.R. 9 C.P. 165.	    (3) (1883)	52  L.J.Q.B.321.(2)  (1885-86) 2 Times Law Reports 273.392r.   17, an order under that Rule cannot be made when a	 newground	or  charge  is raised, if the  application  is	madebeyond	the  period  of	 limitation  prescribed	 for  filingelection  petitions.  The Tribunal sought to get  over	thisdifficulty by relying on the principle well established withreference  to  amendments under 0. VI, r. 17 that  the	factthat a suit on the claim sought to be raised would be barredon  the date of the application would be a material  elementin  deciding whether it should be allowed or not  but  wouldnot  affect  the jurisdiction of the court to  grant  it  inexceptional circumstances as laid down in Charan Das v. AmirKhan (1).  But this is to ignore the restriction imposed  bys.  90(2) that the procedure of the Court under the Code  ofCivil  Procedure in which 0. VI, r. 17 is comprised,  is  toapply  subject to the provisions of the Act, and the  rules,and there being no power conferred on the Tribunal to extendthe  period of limitation prescribed, an order of  amendmentpermitting a new ground to be raised beyond the time limitedby s. 81 and r. 119 must contravene those provisions and is,in  consequence, beyond the ambit of authority conferred  bys. 90(2).  We are accordingly of opinion that the contentionof the appellants on this point is well-founded, and must beaccepted as correct.The  result of the foregoing discussion may thus  be  summedup:(1)Under  s.  83(3)  the  Tribunal  has	 power	to   allowparticulars in respect of illegal or corrupt practices to beamended, provided the petition itself specifies the  groundsor  charges,  and  this	 power	extends	 to  permitting	 newinstances to be given.(2)The	Tribunal  has power under 0. VI, r.  17	 to  orderamendment of a petition, but that power cannot be  exercisedso as to permit new grounds or charges to be raised or to soalter  its  character  as  to make it  in  substance  a	 newpetition, if a fresh petition on those allegations will thenbe barred.We  have  now  to decide whether on  the  principles  statedabove,	the order of amendment dated November 28, 1953,	 wasright and within the competence of(1)[1920] L.R. 47 I.A. 255.			    393the Tribunal.  To decide that, we must examine whether	whatthe respondent sought to raise by way of amendment was	onlyparticulars in respect of a charge laid in the petition,  orwhether it was a new charge.  The paragraph in the  petitionrelevant to the present question is 7(c), and that has	beenalready	 set  out in extenso.  Leaving out  the	 allegationsrelating  to the meetings held at Kakori, what remain of  itis  only the allegation that " respondents I and 2 could  infurtherance   of  their	 election  enlist  the	support	  ofGovernment servants." The word " could " can only mean	thatthe respondents were in a position to enlist the support  ofGovernment  servants.	It does not amount  to	an  avermentthat, in fact, they so enlisted their support.	It is arguedfor  the respondent that the allegation in para 7(c) really-means	that  the  appellants had,  in	fact,  enlisted	 thesupport	 of Government servants, and that that amounts to  acharge	under  s.  123(8)  of  the  Act	 of  procuring	 theassistance of Government- servants for furtherance of  theirelection prospects.  Why then does the petition not state itin plain terms ? The difference between "could" and "did" istoo elementary to be mistaken.	The respondent has in  otherparagraphs   relating	to   other   charges   clearly	 andcategorically  asserted	 what the appellants  did  and	whattheir  agents  did.   And why was  a  different	 phraseologyadopted	 in  para 7(c) 9 It is to be noted that	 apart	fromthis allegation, the rest of the paragraph is taken up	withdetails of the two meetings at Kakori, and it winds up	withthe following allegation:"  The	respondents  1 and 2 by	 this  device  succeeded  increating  an  impression  on the voters that  they  had	 thesupport of the District officials."This suggests that the charge which the respondent sought tolevel  against the appellants was that they moved in  publicso  closely with high dignitaries as to create in the  mindsof  the	 voters the impression that they  were	favoured  bythem.	We are unable to read into the allegations  in	para7(c)   as  originally  framed  any  clear  and	 categoricalstatement of a charge under394s. 123(8), or indeed under any of the provisions of theElection law.The  respondent does not dispute that the language in  whichthe allegation in para 7(c) is couched does not import	thatany  corrupt practice had, in fact, been committed,  but  hecontends  that this defect is merely one of expression,	 andthat  the appellants had understood it correctly as  meaningcommission  of corrupt practices by them, which is what	 therespondent meant to assert.  It is no doubt true that plead-ings  should not be too strictly construed, and that  regardshould	be  had to the substance of the matter and  not	 theform.	Even  so, what, in substance, is  the  charge  whichcould  be gathered from a general and vague allegation	thatthe  appellants " could " enlist the support  of  Governmentofficials  ?  It  should not be forgotten  that	 charges  ofcorrupt practices are quasi-criminal in character, and	thatthe allegations relating thereto must be sufficiently  clearand precise to bring home the charges to the candidates; andjudged	by  that standard, the allegation in  para  7(c)  isthoroughly worthless.  The contention of the respondent thatthe  appellants	 understood the allegation as  meaning	thatthey  had committed corrupt practices, is not borne  out  bythe  record.  In the application which the appellants  filedon  January  24,  1953, for trial of  certain  questions  aspreliminary issues, they stated in para 7 as follows:"Para 7(c).  The allegation contained in this para is  vagueand indefinite.	 It nowhere alleges that the respondent nos.1  and	2 obtained or procured or abetted, or  attempted  toobtain or procure the assistance of any government servants.No list given."And  again, in the objection filed by the appellants to	 theapplication  of	 the respondent for amendment,	they  statedthat it was doubtful whether even the original allegation inpara  7(c)  amounted to a major corrupt practice  within  s.123(8)	of  the Act.  The Tribunal does not deal  with	thisaspect of the matter and simply assumes that the petition aspresented  did	raise a charge under s. 123(8).	 We  are  ofopinion			    395that  this assumption is erroneous and that its	 finding  isvitiated thereby.But even if we are to read " could " in para 7(c) as meaning" did ", it is difficult to extract out of it a charge unders.  123(8).   The  allegation  is  not	clear  whether	 theGovernment servants were asked by the appellants to  supporttheir candidature, or whether they were asked to assist themin furtherance of their election prospects, and there is  noallegation at all that the Government servants did, in fact,assist	 the   appellants  in  the   election.	  On   theseallegations,  it is difficult to hold that the	petition  infact  raised  a charge under s. 123(8).	 It is a  long	jumpfrom  the  petition  as	 originally  laid  to  the   presentamendment,  wherein for the first time it is  asserted	thatcertain	 Mukhias  no Mukhias are mentioned in  the  petitionassisted  the  appellants in furtherance of  their  electionprospects,  and that thereby the corrupt practice  mentionedin s. 123(8) had been committed.  The new matters introducedby  the	 amendment so radically alter the character  of	 thepetition  as originally framed as to make it  practically  anew  petition,	and  it	 was not within	 the  power  of	 theTribunal to allow an amendment of that kind.Counsel	 for the appellants also contended that even if	 theTribunal  had  the  power under 0. VI, r. 17  to  permit  anamendment  raising  a  new  charge, it	did  not  under	 thecircumstances  exercise a sound and judicial  discretion  inpermitting the amendment in question.  There is considerableforce  in this contention.  The election petition was  filedon  June 10, 1952, which was the last date allowed under  a.81  and	 r. 119.  It contained in para 7(c)  only  the	barebones of a charge under a. 123(8), assuming that it could bespelt  out of it.  Nothing further is heard of this  charge,until  we come to December, 1952, when respondents 4  and  9who  sailed with the petitioner, -filed statements  allegingthat  the  appellants  had  obtained  the  assistance	fromGovernment  servants  including Mukhias	 in  furtherance  oftheir	election  prospects.   On  January  16,	 1953,	 therespondent herein filed a replication in which he sought  toweave the above396allegations into the fabric of his petition, but the  resultwas a mere patchwork.  It should be mentioned that there  isno provision of law under which a replication could be filedas a matter of right, nor was there an order of the Tribunalallowing  it.  On February 25, 1953, the  appellants  openedtheir arguments at the hearing of the preliminary issue, andthereafter,  with  a view to remedy the defects	 which	musthave been then pointed out, the respondent filed his presentapplication for amendment.  Even that was defective, and hadto  be	again amended.	And what is  remarkable	 about	thisapplication  is that no at tempt was made to explain why  itwas  made after such long delay and why the new	 allegationswere not made in the original petition.	 The position  takenup  by	the  respondents was that the  amendment  only	madeexpress what was implicit in para 7(c).	 The Tribunal was ofopinion	  that	notwithstanding	 all  these  features,	 theamendment  should be allowed as it was in the  interests  ofthe  public that purity of elections should  be	 maintained.But  then,  public interests equally  demand  that  electiondisputes  should be determined with despatch.  That  is	 thereason	why a special jurisdiction is created and  Tribunalsare  constituted for the trial of election petitions.	Videthe  observations  of  Lord Simonds L.C.  in  Senanayake  v.Navaratne (1).In  the	 present case, having regard  to  the  circumstancesstated above, the order of amendment would be open to  gravecriticism   even  if  it  had  been  made  in  an   ordinarylitigation,  and in an election matter, it is  indefensible.The  strongest point in favour of the respondent is that  weshould not in special appeal interfere with what is a matterof  discretion	with the Tribunal.  It is not  necessary  topursue	this matter further, as we are of opinion  that	 theorder  of  amendment dated November 28, 1953,  is,  for	 thereasons	 already stated. beyond the powers of the  Tribunal,and  therefore	must be set aside and the finding  based  onthat amendment that the appellants had committed the corruptpractice mentioned in s. 123(8) of the Act must be reversed.In this view, it becomes unnecessary(1)  [1954] A.C. 640.			    397to  deal with the further contention of the appellants	thatthere is no legal evidence in support of the finding of	 theTribunal  that	they  had obtained the	assistance  of	fourMukhias in furtherance of their election prospects.Then there is the question whether the first -appellant has,as held by the Tribunal, again by a majority, contravened s.123(7)	of  the	 Act.  The facts found are  that  one  GangaPrasad	was engaged by the first appellant to prepare  threecarbon copies of the Electoral Rolls and was paid Rs.  550/-at the rate of Re. 0-8-0 per hundred voters and likwise, oneViswanath Pande was engaged to enter the names of the votersin  printed  cards and was paid Rs. 275/- at Re.  0-4-0	 perhundred cards.	Both these are undoubtedly expenses incurredin  connection	with the election and have,  in	 fact,	beenshown  by  the	first appellant in the	return	of  electionexpenses  against  column  K.  Now  the	 contention  of	 therespondent which has found favour with the Tribunal is	thatboth  Ganga Prasad and Viswanath Pande must be held to	havebeen  employed for payment in connection with the  election,and  as with their addition, the, number of persons  allowedto  be	employed under Schedule VI has	been  exceeded,	 thecorrupt practice mentioned in s. 123(7) of the Act has	beencommitted.  It is contended by the Solicitor-General that onthe  facts found Ganga Prasad and Viswanath Pande cannot  besaid  to have been employed by the first appellant,and	thatthe conclusion of the Tribunal to the contrary is based on amisconception of law.  Now' whether a person is an  employeeor  not	 is a question of fact, and if there  had  been	 anyevidence  in support of it, this Court would  not  interferewith the finding in special appeal.  But the respondent,  onwhom  the  burden lies of establishing contravention  of  r.118, has adduced no evidence whatsoever, and all that is  onrecord	is what the first appellant deposed while he was  inthe  box.  He merely stated that Ganga Prasad and  ViswanathPande were asked to do the work on, contract basis.  That iswholly	insufficient to establish that there was a  contractof  employment of those persons by him.	 It was	 argued	 forthe respondent that there could be a contract of  employmentin398respect of piece-work as of time-work, and that the evidenceof  the first appellant was material on which  the  Tribunalcould  come  to the conclusion to which it did.	 It  may  beconceded that a contract of employment may be in respect  ofeither piece-work or time-work; but it does not follow	fromthe fact that the contract is for piece-work that it must bea  contract  of	 employment.   There  is  in  law  a   well-established distinction between a contract for services, anda contract of service, and it was thus stated in Collins  v.Hertfordshire Central Council (1):In  the one case the master can order or require what is  tobe  done  while in the other case he can not only  order  orrequire what is to be done but how it shall be done."This  Court had occasion to go into this  question  somewhatfully  in  Dharangadhara  Chemical Works Ltd.  v.  State  ofSaurashtra  (2) , and it was there held that the  real	testfor deciding whether the contract was one of employment	 wasto  find  out  whether the agreement was  for  the  personallabour	of the person engaged, and that if that was so,	 thecontract  was one of employment, whether the work was  time-work or piece-work or whether the employee did the whole  ofthe  work himself or whether he obtained the  assistance  ofother persons also for the work.  Therefore, before it couldbe held that Ganga Prasad and Viswanath Pande were  employedby  the first appellant, it must be shown that the  contractwith them was that they should personally do the work,	withor  without  the  assistance of	 other	persons.   But	suchevidence  is  totally lacking, and the	finding,  therefore,that  they had been employed by the first appellant must  beset aside as based on no evidence.Neither	 of  the  grounds  on  which  the  election  of	 theappellants  has been declared void, could be supported.	  Wemust  accordingly allow the appeal, set aside the  order  ofthe Tribunal and dismiss the election petition filed by	 therespondent,  with costs of the appellants  throughout.Appeal allowed.Election petition dismissed.(1) [1947] K.B. 598, 615.	(2) [1957] S.C.R. 152.399