PETITIONER:BANARAS ICE FACTORY LIMITED	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/11/1956BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1957 AIR  168		  1957 SCR  143ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Appeal Pending before  Labour  AppellateTribunal-Closure  of  factory-Termination  of  services	  ofWorkmen	  without   permission	of   the   Tribunal-Legality"Discharge",meaning   of-Industrial   Disputes	  (AppellateTribunal) Act, 1950 (XLVIII of 1950), ss. 22, 23.HEADNOTE: Clause	 (b) Of S. 22 of the Industrial Disputes  (AppellateTribunal) Act, 1950 provides that during the pendency of anyappeal under the Act no employer shall discharge any workmenconcerned  in such appeal, save with the express  permissionin writing of the Appellate Tribunal, and S. 23 enables	 anyemployee  to make a complaint in writing to  such  AppellateTribunal,  if the employer contravenes the provisions Of  S.22  during  the	 pendency of  proceedings  before  the	saidTribunal.144 During	 the pendency of an appeal filed before the  Labour,Appellate   Tribunal  the  appellant  company	finding	  itdifficult  to run the factory decided to close it  down	 andgave notice to all the workmen that their services would  beterminated  upon  the expiry of thirty days  from  July	 16,1952.  On August 31, 1952, a complaint was made on behalf ofthe workmen to the Tribunal under S. 23 Of the Act that	 theappellant  had	discharged them without	 the  permission  inwriting	 of  the Tribunal and had  thereby  contravened	 theprovisions  of	S.  22 of the Act.  It was  found  that	 theclosure of the appellant's business was bona fide.Held,  that  S.	 22  of the Act is  applicable	only  to  anexisting or running industry and that the termination of theservices of all workmen, on a real and bona fide closure  ofbusiness, is not 'discharge'  within the meaning of s. 22(b)of the Act.J.   K.	 Hosiery  Factory v. Labour  Appellate	Tribunal  ofIndia (A.I.R.  1956  All.  498), approved on  the  point  ofconstruction of s. 22 of the Act.Pipraich  Sugar	 Mills	Ltd. v.	 The  Pipraich	Sugar  MillsMazdoor Union [1956] S.C.R. 872 followed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 135 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober 30, 1952, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India,Allahabad, in Misc.  Case No. C-146 of 1952.R.  R.	Biswas,	 for  the  appellant.Sukumar  Ghose  (amicuscuriae), for the respondents.1956.  November 28.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyS.K.  DAS  J.-This is an appeal by special  leave  from	 thejudgment and order of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of Indiaat Allahabad dated October 30, 1952.  The relevant facts arethese.	 The  Banaras  Ice Factory  Limited,  the  appellantbefore	us,  was incorporated on September 13,	1949,  as  aprivate limited company and was carrying on the business  ofmanufacturing  ice  in	the  city  of  Banaras	though	 itsregistered office was in Calcutta.  The factory worked as  aseasonal factory and had in its employment about 25  workmenat all material times.	These workmen were employed from themonth of March to the month of September145year.  The appellant company got into financial difficultieson  account  of	 trade depression, rise	 in  the  price,  ofmaterials  and	increase  in the  wages	 and  emoluments  ofworkmen.   It tried to secure a loan of Rs. 10,000/- from  aBank  but  met with no success.	 Thereupon,  it	 decided  toclose down the factory and on January 15, 1952, a notice wasgiven to its workmen saying that the factory would be closeddown with effect from January 17, 1952, and the services  ofthe workmen would not be necessary for two months from	thatdate.  The work. men received their wages up to January	 16,1952.  On March 18, 1952, they were again taken into servicebut  this temporary closing of the factory gave rise  to  anindustrial dispute and the workmen complained that they werewrongfully laid off with effect from January 17, 1952.	 Thedispute	 was referred to the Regional Conciliation  Officer,Allahabad,  for adjudication.  In the meantime, that is,  onJune 6, 1952, the workmen gave a strike notice and as  therewas no coal in the factory, the appellant also gave a noticeof  closure  on June 12, 1952.	A settlement  was,  however,arrived	 at  between the parties on June 15,  1952,  at	 thehouse  of  the	Collector of Banaras.	The  terms  of	thatsettlement,  inter  alia,  were: (1)  the  management  wouldwithdraw its notice of closure dated June 12, 1952 ; (2) theworkmen	 would	withdraw their strike notice dated  June  6,1952;  (3) there being no coal, the workers would remain  onleave for a period of thirty days with effect from June	 16,1952, and would report for duty on July 16, 1952, at 8	A.M.and (4) after the workers had resumed their duty on July 16,1952, the appellant would not terminate the services of	 anyworkmen	 or  lay them off in future  without  obtaining	 theprior  permission  of  the  Regional  Conciliation  Officer,Allahabad.On  June  28,  1952,  the  Regional  Conciliation   Officer,Allahabad,  gave his award in the matter of  the  industrialdispute between the appellant and its work-, men with regardto  the	 alleged  wrongful laying off of  the  workmen	fromJanuary 17, 1952, to March 18, 1952,19146referred  to above.  By his award the Regional	ConciliationOfficer	 gave  full wages to the workmen for the  period  inquestion.   On July 16, 1952, none of the  workmen  reportedfor  duty  in  accordance with the terms  of  the  agreementreferred  to  above, and on that date the appellant  gave  anotice to its workmen to the effect that the appellant foundit difficult to run the factory and had decided to close  itdown;  the workmen were informed that their  services  wouldnot  be required and would be terminated upon the expiry  ofthirty days from July 16, 1952.	 The workmen, it is  stated,accepted  the notice and took their pay for one month  (fromJuly  16 to August 15, 1952) without any  protest.   Againstthe  award of the Regional Conciliation Officer	 dated	June28,  1952,  the	 appellant filed an  appeal  to	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal on July 25, 1952.On  August 31, 1952, a complaint was made on behalf  of	 theworkmen to the Labour Appellate Tribunal under s. 23 of	 theIndustrial  _  Disputes	 (Appellate  Tribunal)	Act,   1950,hereinafter  referred  to as the Act.  The gravamen  of	 thecomplaint  was	that  the  appellant  had  contravened	 theprovisions  of s. 22 of the Act. because the  appellant	 haddischarged all the workmen with effect from August 15, 1952,without	 the permission in writing of the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  during the pendency before it of the appeal  filedon  July  25,  1952,  against  the  award  of  the  RegionalConciliation  Officer.	The Labour Appellate Tribunal  dealtwith  this  complaint by its order dated October  30,  1952.Before the Labour Appellate Tribunal it was urged on  behalfof  the appellant that there was no contravention of a.	 22,because	 on July 16, 1952, when the notice of discharge	 wasgiven by the appellant, no appeal was pending before it, theappellant's  appeal  having been filed several	days  later,namely, on July 25, 1952.  This contention was not  acceptedby  the Labour Appellate Tribunal on the ground that  thoughthe  notice  of discharge was given on July  16,  1952,	 thetermination of service was to come into operation after	 onemonth,	that  is, from August 15, 1952, on  which  date	 theappeal	before the Labour Appellate Tribunal  was  certainlypending.  As learned counsel for the147appellant has not again pressed this point before us, it  isnot necessary to say anything more about it.A  second point uroed before the Labour	 Appellate  Tribunalwas  that  the	appellant had the right to  close  down	 thefactory,  when	the  appellant found that it was  not  in  aposition  any longer to run the factory.  The  agreement  ofJune 15, 1952, did not stand in the appellant's way, as	 theworkmen themselves did not report for duty on July 16, 1952.The closure being a bona fide closure, it was not  necessaryto  obtain the permission of the Labour	 Appellate  Tribunaland  there  was therefore no contravention of s. 22  of	 theAct.  The Labour Appellate Tribunal apparently accepted	 theprinciple  that	 the appellant had the right  to  close	 itsbusiness but took the view that permission should have	beenobtained  before the closure.  It referred to the  agreementof June 15, 1952, and held that though the appellant had theright to close its business, permission was still  necessaryand  in	 the absence of such permission, the  appellant	 wasguilty	of  contravening cl. (b) of s. 22 of  the  Act,	 anddirected  that	the appellant should pay  its  workmen	fullwages	as  compensation  for  the  period  of	 involuntaryunemployment  up to the date of its award, that	 is,  duringthe period from August 16, 1952, to October 30, 1952.Relying	 on the decision in J. K. Hosiery Factory v.  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  of India (1), learned counsel  for	 theappellant has urged three points before us.  His first pointis that the termination of the services of all workmen on  areal  and bona fide closure of business is  not	 'discharge'within	the  meaning of cl. (b) of s. 22 of  the  Act.	 Hissecond	point  is that if the word 'discharge'	in  cl.	 (b)aforesaid includes termination of services of all workmen onbona  fide  closure  of	 business, then	 the  clause  is  anunreasonable restriction on the fundamental right guaranteedin  el. (g) of Art. 19 (1) of the Constitution.	  His  thirdpoint  is that, in any view, the Labour Appellate  Tribunal,was  not  entitled  to grant compensation  to  the  workmen,because s.     23  of the Act did not in terms	entitle	 theLabour(1) A.I.R. 1956 All. 498.148Appellate Tribunal to pass an order of compensation.  We maystate  here  that  if the appellant succeeds  on  the  firstpoint,	it  becomes  unnecessary to  decide  the  other	 twopoints.For  a consideration of the first point, we must first	readss. 22 and 23 of the Act.Section	 22: " During the period of thirty days allowed	 forthe  filing  of	 an appeal under section 10  or	 during	 thependency of any appeal under this Act, no employer shall-(a)alter, to the prejudice of the workmen concerned in suchappeal,	 the  conditions  of  service  applicable  to	themimmediately before the filing of such appeal, or(b)discharge  or punish, whether by dismissal or  otherwise,any workmen concerned in such appeal, save with the  expresspermission in writing of the Appellate Tribunal."Section 23: " Where, an employer contravenes the  provisionsof section 22 during the pendency of proceedings before	 theAppellate   Tribunal,  any  employee,  aggrieved   by	suchcontravention,	may  make  a complaint in  writing,  in	 theprescribed manner, to such Appellate Tribunal and on receiptof  such complaint, the Appellate Tribunal shall decide	 thecomplaint  as  if it were an appeal pending  before  it,  inaccordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  shallpronounce  its decision thereon and the provisions  of	thisAct shall apply accordingly."The short question before us is whether the word 'discharge'occurring  in cl. (b) of s. 22 includes termination  of	 theservices  of all workmen on a real and bona fide closure  ofhis  business  by the employer.	 It is true  that  the	word'discharge'  is not qualified by any limitation in cl.	(b).We must, however, take the enactment as a whole and considers.  22	with reference to the provisions of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947, (XIV of 1947) which is in pari  materiawith the Act under our consideration.  We have had  occasionto consider recently in two cases the general scheme and149scope of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.  In Burn &	Co.,Calcutta v. Their Employees(1) this Court observed that	 theobject	of  all labour legislation was' firstly,  to  ensurefair terms to the workmen and secondly, to prevent  disputesbetween employers and employees so that production might notbe adversely affected and the larger interests of the publicmight not suffer.  In Pipraich Sugar Mills Ltd. v.  PipraichSugar Mills Mazdoor Union (2) it was observed-" The  objectsmentioned  above  can  have  their  fulfilment	only  in  anexisting  and  not a dead industry." We	 accepted  the	viewexpressed  in Indian Metal and Metallurgical Corporation  v.Industrial  Tribunal(3)	 and K. M. Padmanabha Ayyar  v.	 TheState  Of Madras (4) that the provisions of  the  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947, applied to an existing industry and	 nota dead industry.  The same view was reiterated in HariprasadShivshankar  Shukla v. A. D. Divikar (5) where we held	that'retrenchment'	in  cl.	 (oo) of s. 2 and  s.  25F  did	 notinclude termination of the services of workmen on bona	fideclosure of business.Turning now to s. 22 of the Act, it is clear enough that el.(a) applies to a running or existing industry only; when theindustry  itself  ceases to exist, it is otiose to  talk  ofalteration  of the conditions of service of the	 workmen  totheir prejudice, because their service itself has come to anend.   The alteration referred to in cl. (a) must  thereforebe  an	alteration  in	the conditions	of  service  to	 theprejudice  of  the  workmen concerned,	in  an	existing  orrunning	 industry.   Similarly, the second part of  cl.	 (b)relating to punishment can have application to a running  orexisting industry only.	 When the industry itself ceases  toexist,	there can be no question of punishment of a  workmanby  dismissal or otherwise.  We are then left with the	word'discharge'.   Unqualified though the word is, it  must,  wethink, be interpreted in harmony with the general scheme andscope  of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.  Our  attentionhas been drawn to(1) [1956] S.C.R. 781.	   (4) [1954] 1 L.L.J. 469.(2) [1956] S.C. R. 87 2.   (5) [1957] S.C. R.121.(3)  A.I. R. 1953 Mad. 98.150the definition of 'workman' in cl. (s) of a. 2, which  says-"...for	 the  purposes of any proceeding under this  Act  inrelation to an industrial dispute, (the definition) includesany person who has been dismissed, discharged or  retrenchedin connection with, or as a consequence of, that dispute, orwhose  dismissal, discharge or retrenchment has led to	thatdispute."  In  the  said definition clause  also,  the	word'discharge'  means  discharge of a person in  a	 running  orcontinuing  business-not discharge of all workmen  when	 theindustry  itself ceases to exist on a bona fide	 closure  ofbusiness.The  true scope and effect of ss. 22 and 23 of the Act	wereexplained  in  The  Automobile Products	 of  India  Ltd.  v.Rukmaji Bala (1).  It was pointed out there that the  objectof s. 22 was " to protect the workmen concerned in  disputeswhich  formed  the  subject-matter  of	pending	 proceedingsagainst	 victimisation	" and the further object  was  "  toensure	that  proceedings  in  connection  with	  industrialdisputes already pending should be brought to a	 terminationin a peaceful atmosphere and that no employer should  duringthe  pendency  of these proceedings take any action  of	 thekind mentioned in the sections which may give rise to  freshdisputes  likely to further exacerbate the already  strainedrelations  between  the	 employer and  the  workmen."  Thoseobjects are capable of fulfilment in a running or continuingindustry only, and not a dead industry.	 There is hardly anyoccasion for praying for permission to lift the ban  imposedby  s.	22,  when the employer has the right  to  close	 hisbusiness  and  bona fide does so, with the result  that	 theindustry  itself  ceases  to exist.  If	 there	is  no	realclosure but a mere pretence of a closure or it is mala fide,there  Is no closure in the eye of law and the	workmen	 canraise an industrial dispute and may even complain under a.23of the Act.For  these  reasons, we must uphold the	 first	point  takenbefore	us  on	behalf	of  the	 appellant.   The  AppellateTribunal was in error in holding that the(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1241.151appellant had contravened cl. (b) of s. 22 of the Act.	 TheAppellate  Tribunal  did not find that the  closure  of	 theappellants business was not bona fide; on the' contrary,  inawarding compensation, it proceeded on the footing that	 theappellant  was justified in closing its business on  accountof  the reasons stated by it.  As to the agreement  of	June15, 1952, the workmen themselves did not abide by it and theappellant's right cannot be defeated on that ground.In  view  of  our decision on the first	 point,	 it  becomesunnecessary to decide the other two points.  On the point ofconstruction  of  s.  22  of the Act,,	we  approve  of	 thedecision  of  the  Allahabad High Court	 in  J.	 K.  HosieryFactory v. Labour Appellate Tribunal of India (supra) but werefrain	 from  expressing any opinion on  the  other  pointsdecided	 therein  and  we must not  be	understood  to	haveexpressed  our assent, contrary to the opinion expressed  byus  in	the case of The Automobile Product8  of	 India	Ltd.(supra)	 to the view that under s. 23 of the Act, it is	 notopen  to an industrial Tribunal to award compensation in  anappropriate case.In the result, the appeal is allowed and the decision of theLabour Appellate Tribunal dated the 30th October 1952 is setaside.	As the workmen did not appear before us, there	willbe no order for costs.	We are indebted to Mr. Sukumar Ghoshfor  presenting before us the case of the workmen as  amicuscuriae.Appeal allowed.152