PETITIONER:M/S.  LAKSHMICHAND BAIJNATH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:13/11/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  341		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 415 CITATOR INFO : R	    1982 SC 760	 (12)ACT:Income	Tax-Partition in Hindu undivided  family-Proceedingsunder  S. 25A of the Indian Income-tax Act-Scope-Receipt  ofamount in accounting year-Assessee's Plea of capital receiptrejected-Liability to tax as business receipt-lndian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), S. 25A.HEADNOTE:For  the  assessment  year 1946-47 the	appellant,  a  Hinduundivided  family  carrying on business,  filed	 a  petitionbefore	the income-tax Officer, under s. 25A of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922,	 claiming  that	 there	had  been  apartition  in the family on April 24,1945.  As	regards	 theincome	assessable under s. 23 Of the Act,  the	 appellant'scase regarding six sums aggregating to Rs. 2,30,346 shown inthe accounts as the sale proceeds of ornaments, was that  atthe  partition the jewels of the family were sold  and	thatthe  price realised therefrom was invested in the  business.The Income-tax Officer held that the partition was true	 andthat the family had become divided into five groups, but  asregards the amount of Rs. 2,30,346 aforesaid he rejected theexplanation given by the appellant as to how the amount cameto be received and held that the amount was not the proceedsof the family jewels sold but represented concealed  profitsof the business.  He accordingly included the said amount inthe  taxable  income.  The  appellant's	 contentions,  interalia, before the Appellate Tribunal were (1) that the  orderpassed	under  s. 25A of the Act by the	 Income-tax  Officermust  be held to have decided the factum of a  partition  inthe  family as well as the 'possession and division  of	 thejewels, as set up by the appellant, and that it was not opento the Department to contend that the amount in question didnot represent the value of the family jewels; and (2)  that,in  any case, there was no evidence to show that the  amountrepresented undisclosed profits.Held,  that when a claim is made under s. 25A of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922,	 the points to	be  decided  by	 theIncometax Officer are whether there has been a partition  inthe  family, and, if so, what the-definite portions  are  inwhich the division had been made among the members or groupsof  members.   The  question as to what the  income  of	 thefamily	assessable  to	tax under s.  23(3)  was,  would  beforeign	 to  the scope of an enquiry under s. 25A,  and	 anyfinding	 thereon  would	 not  be  conclusive  in  assessmentproceedings under S. 23.416Held, further, that the assessee in the present case  havingfailed	to  explain satisfactorily the truth of	 what  is  acredit	in  business accounts, the  Income-tax	Officer	 wasentitled  to  draw the inference that  the  amount  creditedrepresents in reality a receipt of an assessable nature.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 271-272  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJune  19,  1953, of the Calcutta High  Court  in  Income-taxReference Nos. 6 & 7 of 1950.A.V. Viswanatha Sastri, A. K. Dutt, S. K. Kapur and  SukumarGhose, for the appellant.C.K.  Daphtary,	 Solicitor-General of  India,  R.  GanapathyIyer, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1958.  November 13.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AIYAR, J.-The appellant was a  Hindu  undividedfamily	carrying on business as piecegoods merchants in	 thecity  of  Calcutta.  The present proceedings relate  to	 theassessment of its income for the year 1946-47, the  previousyear thereto being June 12, 1944, to April 24, 1945.  In thecourse	of  the assessment, the appellant filed	 a  petitionunder  s.  25-A of the Incometax Act,  1922,  claiming	thatthere  had been a partition in the family on April  24,1945.On May 27,1945, the In. come-tax Officer enquired into	boththese  matters, the factum of partition and the	 quantum  ofincome charge. able to tax, and pronounced orders thereon onJune 30, 1945.	On the petition under s. 25-A, he held	thatthe  partition	was  true, and that the	 family	 had  becomedivided into five groups.  As regards the income  assessableunder s. 23, the dispute related to six sums aggregating  toRs.  2,30,346 shown in the accounts as the sale proceeds  ofornaments.   The  case of the appellant	 with  reference  tothese  sums  was  that at the partition the  jewels  of	 thefamily	were  sold  in six lots,  that	the  price  realisedtherefrom was invested in the business, and that the creditsin   question  related	thereto.   The	Income-tax   Officerdeclined to accept this explanation.  He observed that whilethe books of the appellant417showed	that  what was sold was ornaments, the	accounts  ofChunilal Damani to whom they were stated to have been  sold,showed	sale  of gold.	He also pointed out that  while	 theweight	 of  the  ornaments  according	to   the   partitionagreement, Ex.	A, was 3422 tolas, the weight of gold  whichwas  actually  sold to the purchaser was  3133	tolas.	 Theexplanation given by the appellant for this discrepancy	 wasthat  the  jewels in question had come down  to	 the  familythrough several generations, and were not pure.	 The Income-tax Officer rejected this explanation, because he held	thatthe weight which was actually deducted for impurities in theaccounts  of the purchaser was almost negligible,  and	thatwhat was sold was thus pure gold and not gold in old  familyjewels.	  He  also  remarked that the sales  were  in  roundfigures	 of  500 tolas, and that "if the assessee  had	beentaking	old  ornaments	broken or unbroken for	sale  it  isinconceivable  that  on three occasions out of six  he	tookgold  weighing 500 tolas in round figure." He also  referredto the fact that there was no list of the family jewels, andthat  there was nothing in the family accounts to show	whatjewels	were held by the family.  He accordingly  held	thatthe  story of sale of family jewels was not true,  and	thatthe sum of Rs. 2,30,346 represented concealed profits of thebusiness,  and	he included the said amount in	the  taxableincome.	 He also followed it up by an order imposing tax  onthe appellant under the Excess Profits Tax Act.The  appellant	took  both these orders	 in  appeal  to	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner who again went  into	 thematter	fully,	and  observed that the	appellant  had	beenchanging  his version as to the true character of the  salesfrom  time  to time.  Dealing with the	discrepancy  of	 289tolas  between the weight shown in the partition  agreement,Ex.  A, and that appearing in the accounts books of ChunilalDamani,	 he  remarked  that -while the	explanation  of	 theappellant before the Income-tax Officer was that it was	 dueto  alloy and brass in the jewels, before him  the  positiontaken up was that it was due to pearls and stones which53418had  been  removed  from  the  jewels,	and  that  the	goldcontained  in the jewels was pure gold.	 He did	 not  acceptthis  explanation as, in his opinion, the jewels which	werestated	to  have  been	in  existence  for  three  or	fourgenerations  should have contained much more of	 alloy	thanwas  shown  in	the  accounts of  the  purchaser.   He	alsoconsidered that the sale of gold in round figures of 250  or500 tolas was a circumstance which threw considerable  doubtas to the truth of the appellant's version.  In the  result,he  confirmed  the findings of the Income-tax  Officer,	 anddismissed the appeals.Against	  these	 orders,  the  appellant  appealed  to	 theAppellate  Tribunal.  There, he sought to rely on a  certainproceedings  book  as showing that the	family	jewels	werereally broken up, and that what was sold to Chunilal  Damaniwas the gold thus separated.  As this proceedings book formsthe  real sheet-anchor of the appellant's contention  beforeus,  it is necessary to refer to the facts relating  theretoin  some detail.  On February 20, 1945, the members  of	 thefamily	entered into an agreement, Ex.	A, to  divide  theirjoint proper. ties among the five branches, of which it	 wasconstituted.  In  sch.	B to this document are set  out	 thejewels	to be divided, and their total weight is,  in  roundfigure, 3422 tolas.  Then we have the proceedings book,	 andthat  purports to be a record of the decisions taken by	 themembers of the family from time to time for implementing Ex.A.  The	 minutes of the meeting held on February  23,  1945,show that the pearls and stones imbedded in the jewels	wereto  be	removed and divided among the members,	and  that  agoldsmith  called  Inderban was engaged for the	 purpose  ofbreaking  up  the  jewels.  Then we have the  minutes  of  ameeting	 held  on  February 28, 1945,  and  therein,  it  isrecited	 that  the weight of the pearls, stones	 and  copperremoved was, again in round figure, 289 tolas, and deductingthis  out of 3422 tolas being the weight of the	 jewels	 setout  in Ex.  A, the gold which was available  for  partitionwas 3133 tolas.	 It is recorded that this quantity should besold  in  the market and the sale proceeds credited  in	 thecapital accounts of the business.  And then we have the lastof the proceedings dated April 21,4191945,  which record that gold weighing 3133 tolas  was	soldand  the  price	 credited in the accounts.   Now,  if  theseminutes	 are genuine and give a correct picture as  to	whatreally	took place, they would go a long way to support	 theversion given by the appellant as to how he came by the sumsmaking up a total Rs. 2,30,346.	 Quite naturally, therefore,the  appellant	applied	 to  the  Tribunal  to	receive	 theproceedings  book  in  evidence, and  the  ground  given  insupport of the application was that it had been filed beforethe Income-tax Officer but had not been considered by him.Then  the question was raised as to whether the	 proceedingsbook  was, in fact, produced before the	 Incometax  Officer.The argument of the appellant was that the decision taken atthe meeting dated April 21, 1945, which forms the concludingportion of the book had been translated into English at	 theinstance  of the Income-tax Officer, the original  being  inHindi,	that  the  said translation was marked	Ex.   B	 andcontained the endorsement of the Officer " Original produced",  and	 that accordingly the book must have  been  producedbefore	the Officer.  But the Tribunal was not impressed  bythis  argument.	  It observed that the book iselft  had	 notbeen initialled by the Officer, and that though the  minutesof the meeting dated April 21, 1945, were genuine, there wasno  certainty  that  when it was  shown	 to  the  Income-taxOfficer it was contained in the book now produced, that suchminutes	 could have found a place in another book  as  well,and  that,  therefore,	the  book which	 was  sought  to  beadmitted before it in evidence was not proved to be the bookwhich  was produced before the Officer.	 It was also of	 theopinion that the minutes of the previous meetings could	 nothave  been shown to the Officer.  It accordingly refused  toreceive	 the  book  in evidence, and relying  on  the  othercircumstances  mentioned  in  the order	 of  the  Income-taxOfficer	 and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner,  it	heldthat  the  sum of Rs. 2,30,346 was not the proceeds  of	 thefamily jewels sold but secret profits made by the  appellantin business.Another contention raised by the appellant before420the  Tribunal was that in the proceedings under s. 25A,	 theIncome-tax Officer had held, after making enquiry, that	 thepartition  set up by it was true, and that as  according  tothe  appellant,	 the partition consisted  in  the  division,inter  alia,  of  family jewels	 weighing  3422	 tolas,	 theIncome-tax  Officer  must be held to have decided  that	 thefamily	was in possession of the jewels mentioned in Ex.   Aand  had divided them in the manner set out in Ex.   B,	 andthat  as that order had become final, it must  conclude	 thepresent	 question in favour of the appellant.  The  Tribunalrepelled this contention on the ground that the order  unders. 25A only decided that there was partition in the  family,and  that  it had no bearing on the issues which  arose	 fordecision in the assessment proceedings.	 In the result, boththe appeals were dismissed.Pursuant  to  an order of the High Court of  Calcutta  datedDecember  7,  1950, passed under s. 66(2) of  the  Act,	 theTribunal referred the following questions for its Opinion: -(1)" Whether the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal was bound  bythe  findings of fact of the Income-tax Officer relating  tothe nature and division of the assets of the joint family inquestion  which he arrived at in his enquiry  under  Section25A(l) of the Indian Income-tax Act ?(2)Whether there was any material or evidence upon which thetaxing authorities could legally hold that the amount of Rs.2,30,346 (Rupees two lakhs thirty thousand three hundred andforty-six) represented undisclosed profits of the accountingyear in question ? "The  reference was heard by Chakravarti, C. J., and  Lahiri,J., who by their judgment dated June 19, 1953, answered	 thefirst  question	 in  the  negative and	the  second  in	 theaffirmative.  The appellant then filed an application  unders.  -66A(2)  for  leave to appeal to this  Court,  and	thathaving been dismissed, has preferred the present appeals  onleave granted by this Court under Art. 136.Mr.  Viswanatha Sastri, learned counsel for  the  appellant,raised the following contentions:421(1)  In view of the order of the Income-tax Officer under s.25A,  it was not open to the Department to contend that	 thesum  of Rs. 2,30,346 does not represent the value of  familyjewels.(2)The	finding of the Income-tax authorities that the	saidamount	represents  concealed  profits of  business  is	 notsupported by legal evidence and is, in any event, perverse.(3)There  is  no  evidence  that  the  amount  in   questionrepresents  profits  of business, and it was  therefore	 notchargeable to tax under the provisions of the Excess ProfitsTax Act.(1)On  the first question, the appellant relied	 on  certainobservations  in the order of the Income-tax Officer  passedunder s. 25A as amounting to a decision that the family	 hadthe  jewels mentioned in Ex.  A, and that what was  actuallydivided	 was only the price received therefor.	Now, when  aclaim is made under s. 25A, the points to be decided by	 theIncome-tax Officer are whether there has been a partition inthe  family,  and if so, what the definite portions  are  inwhich the division had been made among the members or groupsof  members.   The  question as to what the  income  of	 thefamily	assessable  to	tax under s.  23(3)  was,  would  beforeign	 to  the  scope of an enquiry under  s.	 25A.	Thatsection	 was, it should be noted, introduced by	 the  IndianIncome-tax (Amendment) Act, 1928 (3 of 1928), for removing adefect	which the working of the Act as enacted in 1922	 haddisclosed.   Under the provisions of the Act as	 they  stoodprior  to the amendment, when the assessee was an  undividedfamily,	 no assessment could be made thereon if at the	timeof  the	 assessment it had become divided, because  at	thatpoint  of time, there was no undivided family  in  existencewhich could be taxed, though when the income was received inthe  year  of account the family was joint.  Nor  could	 theindividual members of the family be taxed in respect of suchincome as the same is exempt from tax under s. 14(1) of	 theAct.  The result of these provisions was that a joint familywhich  had  become  divided at the time	 of  the  assessmentescaped tax altogether.	 To422remove	this defect, s. 25A enacted that until an  order  ismade  under  that section, the family should  be  deemed  tocontinue  as  an undivided family.  When an  order  is	madeunder that section, its effect is that while the tax payableon the total income is apportioned among the divided membersor groups, all of them are liable for the tax payable on thetotal  income of the family.  What that tax is would  dependon  the assessment of income in proceedings taken  under  s.23,  and an order under s. 25A would have no effect on	thatassessment.   It  is in this context that we must  read	 theobservations  in  the order under s. 25A relied on  for	 theappellant.   In fact, that order does not  expressly  decidethat the family had the jewels mentioned in Ex.	 A, and thatthey  were converted into cash as claimed by the  appellant.Nor could such a finding be implied therein, when regard  ishad to the scope of the proceedings under s. 25A and to	 thefact  that the order under s. 23(3) holding that the sum  ofRs.  2,30,346  did  not represent the value  of	 the  familyjewels	sold was passed on the same date as the order  unders. 25A and by the very same officer.(2)The next question is and that is what was really  pressedbefore	us-whether  the sum of Rs. 2,30,346  represents	 theprice  of  family  jewels sold or whether  it  is  concealedbusiness  profits.  That clearly is a question of  fact	 thefinding	 on which is open to attack in a reference under  s.66  only if it could be shown that there is no	evidence  tosupport	 it or that it is perverse.  Now, the contention  ofMr. Viswanatha Sastri for the appellant is that the  findingthat  it is concealed profits was reached by the  Income-taxOfficer	 and  by  the Appellate	 Assistant  Commissioner  byignoring  the  very  material  evidence	 furnished  by	 theproceedings  book,  and	 that  the  Appellate  Tribunal	 haderroneously  refused to receive the book in evidence.	Thiscontention raises two controversies: (i) Was the proceedingsbook  which was produced before the Tribunal the book  whichwas produced before the Income-tax Officer ? (ii) If it was,were  the  minutes of the meeting prior to April  21,  1945,relied	on by the appellant before the Income-tax Officer  ?Whatever423view  one might be inclined to take on the former  question,so  far	 as the latter is concerned, it is  perfectly  plainthat  they were not.  On May 27, 1947, the enquiry was	heldon  both  the petitions under s, 25A and on the	 quantum  ofincome	assessable to tax under s. 23(3).  Exhibit D  is  anextract from the order sheet of the Income-tax Officer,	 andit runs as follows:"Regarding credits amounting to Rs. 2,30,346-6-3 in the a/c.Udoyaram Bhaniram the representatives state that besides theevidence produced, which are noted below, they are not in  aposition to produce any further evidence,(i)  Account books of the assessee containing the details ofthe amounts aggregating the aforesaid sum.(ii) Sale  statements rendered by Chunilal Damani,copies  ofwhich have been filed.(iii)Roker   of	 Chunilal  Damani  containing  entries	 forpurchase  of  gold, sold by the assessee family	 along	withSurajrattan Bagri the accountant of Chunilal Damani.(iv) Statement	of  Lakhmichand	 Bhiwaniwalla  and  PannalalBhiwaniwalla, member of the assessee family."This  statement is signed by the counsel for the  appellant.It is clear from the above that the proceedings book was notrelied	on  as	evidence on the character  of  the  receiptsmaking	up the sum of Rs. 2,30,346.  The fact appears to  bethat the appellant produced the proceedings book in  supportof his petition under s. 25A for the purpose of establishingthat there was a completed partition, and relied only on theminutes	 of  the meeting held on April 21,  1945,  in  proofthereof,  and  that  is why that  alone	 was  translated  inEnglish	 and marked as Ex.  B. It is also to be	 noted	thatthere  is  no reference in the order of	 assessment  by	 theIncome-tax  Officer  under s. 23(3) to the  minutes  of	 themeetings  prior	 to April 21, 1945, and that they  were	 noteven  translated,  as was the record of	 the  meeting  datedApril 21, 1945.	 The obvious inference is that they were notrelied	 on  by	 the  appellant,  and  were  therefore	 notconsidered by the Officer.  It is also424significant that the order -of the Income-tax Officer refersto sale of ornaments broken or unbroken.  The story that thegold which was separated from the jewels after removing	 thepearls	and stones was melted and sold in quantities of	 250or 500 tolas, which was the argument pressed before us,	 wasnot put forward before him.It  is	argued that in the appeal against the order  of	 theIncome-tax Officer the ground was definitely taken that	 theproceedings  book had been produced before him, and that  itwas  also prominently mentioned in a petition  supported  byaffidavit  filed  by the appellant.  But the  order  of	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner does not deal  with	thismatter	either, and it is inconceivable that he	 would	havefailed to consider it if it had been pressed before him.  Itis  also to be noted that the appellant who had	 obtained  areturn	of the proceedings book from the Income-tax  Officerdid not file it before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner,nor  did he move for its admission in evidence.	 Apart	fromtaking the grounds to which we were referred, the  appellantappears	 to  have presented his case  before  the  AppellateAssistant Commissioner precisely on the same lines on  whichlie  pressed it before the Income-tax Officer.	In  view  ofthese facts, we are unable to hold that in refusing to admitthe  proceedings  book	as  evidence  in  the  appeal,	 theAppellate   Tribunal  acted  perversely	  or   unreasonably.Indeed,	 counsel  for the appellant did not contend  in	 theHigh  Court  that  the	Tribunal  had  acted  illegally	  orunreasonably  in refusing to admit the proceedings  book  inevidence.  That being so, it cannot be said that the findinggiven  by the Tribunal on an appreciation of the  facts	 andcircumstances already set out is unsupported by evidence  oris perverse.The position may thus be summed up: In the business accountsof  the	 appellant  we	find  certain  sums  credited.	 Theexplanation  given  by the appellant as to how	the  amountscame  to  be  received is rejected  by	all  the  Income-taxauthorities  as	 untenable.   The  credits  are	 accordinglytreated	 as business receipts which are chargeable  to	tax.In V. Govindarajulu425Mudaliar  v. The Commissioner of Income-tax, Hyderabad	(1),this Court observed:"  There is ample authority for the position that  where  anassessee fails to prove satisfactorily the source and natureof  certain amounts of cash received during  the  accountingyear,  the  Income-tax	Officer	 is  entitled  to  draw	 theinference that the receipts are of an assessable nature."That is precisely what the Income-tax authorities have	donein  the	 present case, and we do not find  any	grounds	 forholding that their finding is open to attack as erroneous inlaw.(3)Lastly, the question was sought to be raised that even ifthe  credits  aggregating  to Rs. 2,30,346 are	held  to  beconcealed income, no levy of excess profits tax can be	madeon  them  without a further finding  that  they	 representedbusiness income, and that there is no such finding.  When anamount	is  credited  in  business  books,  it	is  not	  anunreasonable  inference	 to draw that it is a  receipt	frombusiness.  It is unnecessary to pursue this matter  further,as this is not one of the questions referred under s. 66(2).In  the	 result,  the appeals fail and	are  dismissed	withcosts.		    Appeals dismissed.(1)  [1958] 34 I.T.R. 807, 810.54426