PETITIONER:HUKUM CHAND MALHOTRA	Vs.RESPONDENT:UNION OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:12/12/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  536		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 892 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1971 SC2004	 (10) RF	    1980 SC1650	 (7)ACT:Government Servant-Acceptance of Private employment  withoutGovernment's   sanction-Show   cause   notice-Proposal	  ofalternative Punishment-Legality of notice-Validity of  orderof removal from service-Constitution of India, Art. 311(2).HEADNOTE:The  appellant,	 a  Government servant,	 was  charged  withhaving,	 contrary to the rules governing the  conditions  ofhis service, accepted private employment without sanction ofGovernment  while he was still in Government  service.	 TheOfficer who held an enquiry against him found the charge  tobe true and submitted a report.	 On April 14, 1954, a noticewas  issued  to the appellant asking him to  show  cause  inaccordance  with  the  provisions  of  Art.  3II(2)  of	 theConstitution in the following terms:........... On a carefulconsideration  of  the	report, and  in	 particular  of	 theconclusions  reached by the Enquiring Officer in respect  ofthe   charges	framed	against	 you,	the   President	  isprovisionally  of  opinion  that  a  major  penalty,   viz.,dismissal,  removal or reduction should be enforced on	you.Before	he  takes  that action, he desires to  give  you  anopportunity of showing cause against the action proposed  tobe  taken.........  The appellant then showed cause  and  onOctober 1, 1954, the President passed an order removing	 theappellant  from service with effect from that date.  It	 wascontended for the appellant, inter alia, that the show causenotice	 dated	April  14,  1954,  stated  all	 the   threepunishments mentioned in Art. 311(2) and that inasmuch as itdid  not  particularise	 the  actual  or  exact	  punishmentproposed to be imposed on the appellant, the notice did	 notcomply	with the essential requirements of Art. 311(2)	and,therefore,  the	 final order of removal passed	on  October,1`954, was not a valid order.Held,  that the show cause notice dated April 14, 1954,	 didnot  contravene	 the  provisions  of  Art.  311(2)  of	 theConstitution.There  is  nothing  wrong  in  principle  in  the  punishingauthority  tentatively forming the opinion that the  chargesproved	merit  any one of the three major penalties  and  onthat footing asking the Government servant concerned to showcause  against	the punishment proposed to be taken  in	 thealternative   in  regard  to  him,  because  it	 gives	 theGovernment servant better opportunity to show cause  againsteach  of those punishments being inflicted on him, which  hewould not have had if only the severest punishment had	beenmentioned  and	a  lesser punishment not  mentioned  in	 thenotice had been inflicted on him.893High  Commissioner     for India and High  Commissioner	 forPakistan  v.  I. M. Lall, (1948) L.R. 75 I.A. 225  and	KhemChand v.  Union of India, [1958] S.C.R. 1080, explained.Jatindra  Nath	Biswas v. R. Gupta, (1953)  58	C.W.N.	128;Dayanidhi  Rath v. B. S. Mohanty, A.I.R. 1955 Orissa 33	 andLakshmi	 Narain Gupta v. A. N. Puri, A.I.R. 1954  Cal.	335,distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 288 of 1958.Appeal	by Special Leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember  3, 1956, of the Punjab High Court (Circuit  Bench)at Delhi in Letters Patent Appeal No. 25-D of 1956,  arisingout  of the judgment and order dated April 9, 1956,  of	 thesaid  High Court (Circuit Bench) at Delhi in Civil Writ	 No.8-D of 1955.N.   C. Chatterjee and R. S. Narula, for the appellant.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and  T.M. Sen, for the respondent1958.  December 12.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS, J.-This is an appeal by special leave and	 theonly question for decision is if the order of the  Presidentdated  October 1, 1954, removing the appellant from  servicewith  effect  from that date is invalid, as claimed  by	 theappellant, by reason of a contravention of the provisions ofArt. 311(2) of the Constitution.The  short  facts are these.  The appellant stated  that  hejoined	permanent Government service on April 4,  1924.	  In1947,  before  partition,  he  was  employed  as   AssistantSecretary, Frontier Corps of Militia and Scouts in the	thenNorth-Western  Frontier Province, under	 the  administrativecontrol of the External Affairs Department of the Governmentof India.  The appellant stated that the post which be	heldthen  was  a post in the Central Service, Class	 11.   Afterpartition, the appellant opted for service in India and	 wasposted	to an office under the Ministry of Commerce  in	 theGovernment of India in October, 1947.  In December, 1949, hewas  transferred  to the office of the Chief  Controller  ofImports,  New Delhi, to clear off certain arrears  of  work.In August, 1951, he was posted as894and  Deputy  Chief  Controller	of  imports,  Calcutta,	 andcontinued  to  work in that post till September,  1952.	  Hethen  took  four  months' leave on average pay	and  on	 theexpiry of his leave on January 24, 1953, he was	 transferredas  Section officer in the Development Wing of the  Ministryof Commerce.  The appellant thought that the order  amountedto   a	 reduction  of	his  rank  and	lie   made   certainrepresentations.  As these representations bore no fruit, heapplied	 for leave preparatory to retirement on February  6,1953.  In that application the appellant stated:Normally  I  am due to retire in April 1956 but	 I  find  itdifficult  to  reconcile  myself to the	 new  conditions  ofservice under which I am now placed to work.  I find that  Iwould  not  be wasting only myself but I would also  not  bedoing  full  justice to the' interest of my  Government	 andcountry in my present environment.  Under the circumstances,I  pray that I may be permitted to retire from the 1st	May,1953."On  February  14,  1953, the  appellant	 amended  his  leaveapplication  and  said that he had been informed  by  the  I-Administrative	 Branch	 of the Development  Wing  that	 thequestion  of permission to retire was  under  consideration,because	 of some difficulty with regard to the inclusion  inthe service of the appellant the period during which he heldthe, post of Assistant Secretary, Frontier Corps;  thereforebe  said that he might be granted leave on full average	 payfor  four months with effect from February 15, 1953, if	 thedecision  to give him permission to retire was likely to  bepostponed  beyond  May	1,  1953.   He	amended	 his   leaveapplication by making the following prayer:"  Leave  may be sanctioned for four months from.  the	15thFebruary, 1953, or up to the date from which I am  permittedto retire whichever may be earlier ".On March 10, 1953, the appellant was informed thathe  could  not be allowed to retire at that stage,  but	 theMinistry had agreed to grant him leave from February 16,  193, to April 30, 1953.  The appellant then went on leave	 andon February 25, 1953, he895wrote to Government to say that he was contemplating to jointhe  service of Messrs.	 Albert David & Co. Ltd.,  Calcutta,and  for that purpose he was accepting a course of  trainingin  that  Company  for	two months.   In  April,  1953,	 theappellant accepted service under Messrs.  Albert David & Co.Ltd., and he wrote to Government to that effect on April  6,1953.  On June 16, 1953, the appellant was charged with hav-ing violated r. 15 of the Government Servants' Conduct Rulesand  Fundamental  Rule	11.   Rule  15	of  the	  GovernmentServants'   Conduct  Rules  states,  inter  alia,   that   aGovernment servant may not without the previous sanction  ofGovernment  engage in any trade or undertake any  employmentother  than his public duties.	Fundamental Rule 11 says  ineffect	that unless in any case it be  otherwise  distinctlyprovided,  the whole time of a Government servant is at	 thedisposal  of the Government which pays him.  A.	 P.  Mathur,Joint  Chief  Controller of Imports, was asked	to  hold  anenquiry against the appellant on the charge mentioned above.The  appellant submitted an explanation and an	enquiry	 washeld  by A. P. Mathur in due course.  The Enquiring  Officersubmitted  his	report on September 12, 1953,  in  which  hefound  that  the  appellant  had,  contrary  to	 the   rulesgoverning  the conditions of his service,  accepted  privateemployment  without previous sanction of  Government  duringthe  period  when he was still in  Government  service.	  OnApril  14,  1954, the appellant was asked to show  cause  inaccordance  with  the  provisions  of  Art.  311(2)  of	 theConstitution.	As  the whole of the argument in  this	casecentres round this show cause notice, it is necessary to setit out in fullSir,I  am directed to say that the Enquiry Officer appointed  toenquire	  into	certain	 charges  framed  against  you	 hassubmitted his report ; a copy of the report is enclosed	 foryour information.2.   On	 a  careful  consideration of  the  report,  and  inparticular of the conclusions reached by the Enquiry Officerin  respect of the charges framed against you the  Presidentis provisionally of opinion that a896major penalty, viz., dismissal, removal or reduction  shouldbe enforced on you.  Before he takes that action, he desiresto  give  you an opportunity of showing	 cause	against	 theaction	proposed to be taken. Any representation  which	 youmay  make  in  that connection -will be	 considered  by	 himbefore taking the proposed action.  Such representation,  ifany,  should  be made, in writing, and submitted  so  as  toreach  the  undersigned	 not later than	 14  days  from	 thereceipt of this letter by you.Please acknowledge receipt of this letter. Yours faithfully,      Sd. S. Bhoothalingam,Joint Secretary to the Government of India."The appellant then showed cause and on October 1, 1954,	 thePresident passed an order in which it was stated that  aftertaking	into  consideration  the  report  of  the  EnquiringOfficer	  and  in  consultation	 with  the  Public   ServiceCommission,  the  President found that the charge  had	beenproved	 against  the  appellant  and  the   appellant	 wasaccordingly removed from service with effect from that date.The appellant then moved the Punjab High Court by a petitionunder  Art.  226  of  the Constitution	in  which  his	maincontentions  were (a) that he had no opportunity of  showingcause  against the action proposed to be taken in regard  tohim  within the meaning of Art. 311 (2) of the	Constitutionand  (b)  that	he  had	 asked	for  leave  preparatory	  toretirement  and	 accepted service under Albert David  &	 Co.Ltd.  in  the  bona  fide  belief  that	 Government  had  noobjection to his accepting such private employment.   Dulat,J., who dealt with the petition in the first instance,	heldagainst	 the appellant on both points.	He found that  therewas  no contravention of the provisions of Art. 311  (2)  ofthe  Constitution and on the second point, he held  that  onthe  facts admitted in the case there was no doubt that	 theappellant  had accepted private employment in  contraventionof  the	 rules governing the conditions of his	service	 andthere was little substance897in the suggestion of the appellant that he had no sufficientopportunity to produce evidence.The   second  point  no	 longer	 survives,  and	  the	onlysubstantial  point  for	 our consideration  is	the  allegedcontravention of Art. 311(2) of the Constitution.Mr.  N.	 C. Chatterjee, who has appeared on  behalf  of	 theappellant,  has	 submitted  before us that  the	 show  causenotice	 dated	April  14,  1954,  stated  all	 the   threepunishments mentioned in Art. 311 (2) and inasmuch as it didnot particularise the actual or exact punishment proposed tobe imposed on the appellant, the notice did not comply	withthe   essential	 requirements  of  Art.	 311  (2)   of	 theConstitution;  therefore, the final order of removal  passedon October 1, 1954, was not a valid order.In  the recent decision of Khem Chand v. Union of India	 (1)this  Court explained the true scope and effect of Art.	 311(2)  of	 the Constitution.  It was stated in  that  decisionthat the reasonable opportunity envisaged by Art. 311 (2) ofthe   Constitution  included  (a)  an  opportunity  to	 theGovernment  servant  to	 deny his guilt	 and  establish	 hisinnocence, (b) an opportunity to defend himself, and finally(c) an opportunity to make his representation as to why	 theproposed punishment should not be inflicted on him, which hecan only do if the competent authority after the enquiry  isover and after applying its mind to the gravity or otherwiseof  the	 charges  proved  against  the	Government   servanttentatively proposes to inflict one of the three punishmentsand communicates the same to the Government servant.  It  isno   longer   in  dispute  that	 the  appellant	  did	haveopportunities  (a) and (b) referred to above.  The  questionbefore	us is whether the show cause notice dated April	 14,1954, gave the appellant a reasonable opportunity of showingcause  against the action proposed to be taken in regard  tohim.   Mr. N. C. Chatterjee has emphasised two	observationsmade by this Court in Khem Chand's case (1).  He points	 outthat  in  connection with opportunity  (c)  aforesaid,	thisCourt observed that a Government(1) [1958] S.C.R. 1080.113898servant	 can only make his representation if  the  competentauthority  after the enquiry is over and after applying	 itsmind  to  the  gravity or otherwise of	the  charges  provedagainst	 the  Government  servant  tentatively	proposes  toinflict	 one of the three punishments and  communicates	 thesame  to the Government servant.  Mr. Chatterjee  emphasisesthe observation " one of the three punishments ".  Secondly,he  has drawn our attention to the observations made in	 thejudgment of the Judicial Committee in High Commissioner	 forIndia and High Commissioner for Pakistan v. I. M. Lall	(1),which observations were quoted with approval in Khem Chand'scase (2).  One of the observations made was:"  In the opinion of their Lordships no action is  -proposedwithin	the  meaning of the sub-section "  (their  Lordshipswere  dealing	 with  sub-section  (3)	 of  s.	 240  of  theGovernment of India Act, 1935) " until a definite conclusionhas  been come to on the charges, and the actual  punishmentto follow is provisionally determined on."Mr. Chatterjee emphasises the expression " actual punishment"  occurring  in  the  said  observations.   It	 is  to	  beremembered, however, that both in I. M. Lall's case, (1) andKhem  Chand's  case (1) the real point of the  decision	 wasthat  no  second  notice had been given	 to  the  Governmentservant	 concerned after the enquiry was over to show  causeagainst	 the action proposed to be taken in regard  to	him.In I. M. Lall's case (1) a notice was given at the same timeas  the	 charges  were made which  directed  the  Governmentservant	 concerned  to	show cause " why he  should  not  bedismissed,  removed  or reduced or subjected to	 such  otherdisciplinary action as the competent authority may think fitto  enforce,  etc." In other words, the notice was  what  isusually	 called a combined notice embodying the	 charges  aswell  as  the punishments proposed.  Such a notice,  it	 washeld, did not comply with the requirements of sub-s. (3)  ofs.  240.   In Khem Chand's case (2) also the report  of	 theEnquiring  Officer was approved by the Deputy  Commissioner,Delhi, who imposed the(1) (1948) L.R. 75 I.A. 225,242.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 1080.899penalty	 of dismissal without giving the Government  servantconcerned  an opportunity to show cause against	 the  actionproposed to be taken in regard to him.	In Khem Chand's case(1) the learned SolicitorGeneral appearing for the Union  ofIndia  sought  to distinguish the decision in I.  M.  Lall'scase  (2)  on  the ground that the notice  there  asked	 theGovernment servant concerned to show cause why he should notbe  dismissed, removed or reduced or subjected to any  otherdisciplinary  action,  whereas in Khem Chand's	case(1)	 thenotice	issued to the Government servant before the  enquirymentioned  only	 one punishment, namely, the  punishment  ofdismissal.   Dealing  with  this  argument  of	the  learnedSolicitor-General this Court said (at p. 1100):" A close perusal of the judgment of the Judicial  Committeein  I. M. Lall's case will, however, show that the  decisionin  that  case	did  not  proceed  on  the  ground  that  anopportunity  had  not been given to 1. M. Lall	against	 theproposed  punishment  merely because in the  notice  severalpunishments were included, but the decision proceeded reallyon  the ground that this opportunity should have been  givenafter  a stage bad been reached where the charges  had	beenestablished and the competent authority had applied its mindto the gravity or otherwise of the proved charge tentativelyand proposed a particular punishment."Therefore,  the	 real point of the decision both  in  I.  M.Lall's	case  (2)  and Khem Chand's case  (1)  was  that  noopportunity  had  been	given  to  the	Government   servantconcerned to show cause after a stage had been reached	whenthe charges had been established and the competent authoritybad  applied  its mind to the gravity or  otherwise  of	 thecharges proved and tentatively proposed the punishment to begiven  to the Government servant for the charges so  proved.It  is true that in some of the observations made  in  thosetwo decisions the words " actual punishment " or  particularpunishment " have been used, but those(1) [1958] S.C.R. 1080.(2) (1948) L.R. 75 I.A. 225, 242.900observations  must, however, be taken with reference to	 thecontext in which they were made.Let  us	 examine a little more carefully  what	consequenceswill follow if Art. 311(2) requires in every case that the "exact  "  or " actual " punishment to be  inflicted  on	 theGovernment  servant concerned must be mentioned in the	showcause notice issued at the second stage.  It is obvious, andArt.  311  (2) expressly says so, that the  purpose  of	 theissue of a show cause notice at the second stage is to	givethe Government servant concerned a reasonable opportunity ofshowing	 cause	why the proposed punishment  should  not  beinflicted on him; for example, if the proposed punishment isdismissal, it is open to the Government servant concerned tosay in his representation that even though the charges	havebeen  proved  against  him, he does not	 merit	the  extremepenalty	 of dismissal, but merits a lesser punishment,	suchas removal or reduction in rank.  If it is obligatory on thepunishing authority to state in the show cause notice at thesecond	stage  the " exact " or "  particular  "  punishmentwhich  is  to  be inflicted, then a  third  notice  will  benecessary if the State Government accepts the representationof  the Government servant concerned.  This will be  againstthe very purpose for which the second show cause notice	 wasissued.Then,  there is another aspect of the matter which has	beenpointedly emphasised by dulat, J. If in the present case theshow  cause  notice  had merely	 stated	 the  punishment  ofdismissal  without mentioning the other two punishments,  itwould still be open to the punishing authority to impose anyof  the	 two lesser punishments of removal or  reduction  inrank and no grievance could have been made either about	 theshow cause notice or the actual punishment imposed.  Can  itbe said that the enumeration of the other two punishments inthe show cause notice invalidated the notice ? It appears tous  that  the  show  cause notice in  the  present  case  bymentioning  the three punishments gave a better	 and  fulleropportunity  to the appellant to show cause why none of	 thethree punishments should be inflicted on him.  We desire to901emphasise  here that the case before us is not one in  whichthe show cause notice is vague or of such a character as  tolead  to the inference that the punishing authority did	 notapply  its mind to the question of punishment to be  imposedon  the	 Government servant.  The show	cause  notice  datedApril  14, 1954, stated in clear terms that " the  Presidentis  provisionally of opinion that a major  penalty,  namely,dismissal, removal or reduction, should be enforced on you."Therefore, the President had come to a tentative  conclusionthat the charge proved against the appellant merited any oneof  the	 three	penalties mentioned therein  and  asked	 theappellant  to show cause why any one of the aforesaid  threepenalties  should  not be imposed on him.   We	see  nothingwrong  in principle in the punishing  authority	 tentativelyforming the opinion that the charges proved merit any one of-  the three major penalties and on that footing asking	 theGovernment  servant  concerned	to show	 cause	against	 thepunishment proposed to be taken in the alternative in regardto  him.   To  specify	more  than  one	 punishment  in	 thealternative  does not necessarily make the  proposed  actionany  the  less	definite;  on the  contrary,  it  gives	 theGovernment servant better opportunity to show cause  againsteach  of those punishments being inflicted on him, which  hewould not have had if only the severest punishment had	beenmentioned  and	a  lesser punishment not  mentioned  in	 thenotice had been inflicted on him.We  turn  now to certain other decisions  on  which  learnedcounsel	 for the appellant has relied.	They  are:  JatindraNath Biswas v. R. Gupta (1), Dayanidhi Rath v.	  B.	  S.Mohanty (2) and Lakshmi Narain Gupta v. A.   N.	 Puri	(3).In the case of Jatindra Nath Biswas (1) no second show causenotice was given and the decision proceeded on that footing.Sinha, J., observed, however:"Where	there  is  an  enquiry, not only  must	he  have  anopportunity of contesting his case before the(1) [1953] 58 C.W.N. 128.    (2) A.I.R. 1955 Orissa 33.	  (3) A.I.R. 1954 Cal. 3.35-902enquiry, but, before the punishment is imposed upon him,  hemust  be told about the result of the enquiry and the  exactpunishment which is proposed to be inflicted."Mr. Chatterjee has emphasised the use of the word " exact ".As  we	have  pointed  out,  the  decision  proceeded  on  adifferent footing and was not rested on the ground that onlyone  punishment must be mentioned in the second	 show  causenotice.	 The decision in Dayanidhi Rath's case (1) proceededon  the	 footing that if the punishment that  is  tenativelyproposed against a civil servant is of a graver kind, he canbe  awarded  punishment	 of  a	lesser	kind;  but  if	 thepunishment that is tentatively proposed is of a lesser kind,there will be prejudice in awarding a graver form of punish-ment.	What happened in that case was that the	 show  causenotice	stated	that  in view  of  the	Enquiring  Officer'sfindings  contained in the report with which  the  Secretaryagreed	and  in	 consideration of the  past  record  of	 theGovernment servant concerned, it was proposed to remove	 himfrom Government service; in another part of the same notice,however,  the Government servant concerned was	directed  toshow  cause  why  the penalty of  dismissal  should  not  beinflicted for the charges proved against him.  Thus, in	 thesame  notice two punishments were juxtaposed in such  a	 waythat  it was difficult to say that the	punishing  authorityhad applied its mind and tentatively come to a conclusion asto what punishment should be given.  It was not a case wherethe  punishing	authority  said	 that  either  of  the	 twopunishments  might  be imposed in the  alternative;  on	 thecontrary, in one part of the notice the punishing  authoritysaid  that it was proposed to remove the Government  servantconcerned and in another part of the notice it said that theproposed  punishment  was  dismissal.	In  Lakshmi   NarainGupta's	 case (2) the notice called upon the  petitioner  toshow  cause  why disciplinary action, such as  reduction  inrank,  withholding of increments, etc., should not be  takenagainst him.  The learned Judge pointed out(1) A.I.R. 1955 Orissa 33.(2) A.I.R. 1954 Cal- 335.903that there were seven items of penalties under r. 49 of	 theCivil  Service (Classification, Control and  Appeal)  Rules,and the notice did not indicate that the punishing authorityhad applied its mind and come to any tentative conclusion asto  the	 imposition of any of the punishments  mentioned  inthat  rule.  On that footing it was held that there  was  nocompliance  with  the  provisions  in  Art.  311(2)  of	 theConstitution.  We do not, therefore, take these decisions aslaying	down  that  whenever more  than	 one  punishment  ismentioned  in the second show cause notice, the notice	mustbe  held  to be bad.  If these decisions lay down  any	suchrule, we must hold them to be incorrect.We  have come to the conclusion that the three decisions  onwhich  learned	counsel	 for the appellant  has	 placed	 hisreliance  do  not  really  support  the	 extreme  contentioncanvassed  for by him, and we are further of the  view	thatthe  show cause notice dated April 14, 1954, in the  presentcase  did not contravene the provisions of Art. 311  (2)  ofthe   Constitution.    The  appellant	had   a	  reasonableopportunity of showing cause against the action proposed  tobe taken in regard tohim.This  disposes of the principal point in controversy  beforeus.    Mr.  Chatterjee	referred  to  certain  mistakes	  ofreference  in  the order of the President dated	 October  1,1954.	Instead	 of  referring to r. 15	 of  the  GovernmentServants'  Conduct Rules, r. 13 was referred to.  There	 wasalso a reference to para. 5 of a particular Government orderwhich	prohibited  Government	servants  from	 taking	  upcommercial  employment within two years of retirement.	 Mr.Chatterjee  submitted  that this particular  order  did	 notapply  to Government servants in Class 11.  We do not  thinkthat the inaccurate references were of any vital importance.In  effect and substance the order of removal dated  October1, 1954, was based on the ground that the appellant violatedr. 15 of the Government Servants' Conduct Rules and r. II ofthe  Fundamental  Rules;  he  accepted	private	  employmentwithout	 sanction  of  Government  while  he  was  still  inGovernment  service.   That was the basis  for	the  enquiryagainst904the  appellant	and  that was the basis	 for  the  order  ofremoval passed against him.For  these  reasons we hold that there is no  merit  in	 theappeal which must accordingly be dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.