PETITIONER:ABDUL REHMAN MAHOMED YUSUF	Vs.RESPONDENT:MAHOMED HAJI AHMAD AGBOTWALAAND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/09/1959BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERWANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR   82		  1960 SCR  (1) 749 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1976 SC1750	 (4)ACT:Criminal  Procedure--Defamation-Facts stated in	 the  chargenot   mentioned	 in  the  complaint-Separate  complaint	  ifnecessary Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898),	 ss.198 and 238(3).HEADNOTE:The  appellant filed a complaint against the respondent	 andanother under ss 385, 389, 500/109 of the Indian Penal Code.The Trial Court found that there was no conspiracy to defamethe appellant or to extort money from him and a charge underS.  500	 Indian	 Penal	Code only  was	framed	against	 therespondent.   It was found that the facts mentioned  in	 thecharge	were not stated in the complaint.  The	Trial  Courtholding that a separate complaint should have been filed  inrespect	 of  the  offence  with	 which	the  respondent	 wascharged,  acquitted  him.   The	 High  Court  rejected	 theappellant's  application  for revision of the order  of	 theTrial  Court  with the remark " rejected as no	offence	 Theappellant appealed by special leave.Held,  that  the  offence charged was  a  separate  offence,although  of the same kind, from the offence in	 respect  ofwhich the facts had been stated in the complaint.  For	thisseparate offence a separate complaint should have been filedin  accordance with the provisions of s. 198 of the Code  ofCriminal Procedure.  The Provisions of s. 198 of the Code ofCriminal  Procedure  are mandatory.  In appeal	the  SupremeCourt could do what the High Court could have done The orderof acquittal of the respondent was a nullity, and the properorder should be one of discharge.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 174  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  April 15, 1955, of the Bombay High Court,	in  CriminalRevision  Application  No. 392 of 1955, arising out  of	 thejudgment   and	order  dated  December	14,  1954,  of	 thePresidency  Magistrate, 15th Court Mazagaon, Bombay in	CaseNo. 532/S of 1953.E.   B. Ghasvala and I. N. Shroff, for the appellant.C.   B.	 Aggarwala,  J.	 B. Dadachanji,	 S.  N.	 Andley	 andRameshwar Nath, for respondent No. 1.H.   J. Umrigar, R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for  respondentNo. 2.957501959.	September  15.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byIMAM J.-A complaint was filed by the appellant on the 4th ofDecember,  1953,  against the respondent Agbotwala  and	 onePhirozbai Mazarkhan under ss. 385, 389 and 500/34 and 109 ofthe  Indian Penal Code in the Presidency  Magistrate's	15thCourt, Mazagoan, Bombay.  The accused were summoned.  As theaccused Phirozbai Mazarkhan could not be produced the  trialproduced  against  the	respondent  Agbotwala	(hereinafterreferred  to  as  the  respondent)  only.   The	  PresidencyMagistrate  was	 not satisfied, on the	evidence,  that	 therespondent  and Phirozbai Mazarkhan had conspired either  todefame	the appellant or to extort money from him.  He	alsoheld that there was no evidence to show that the  respondentknew  that  Phirozbai Mazarkhan was committing	on  offence.Accordingly, he declined to frame a charge under ss. 385 and389134 and 109 of the Indian Penal Code.The Presidency Magistrate, however, framed a charge under s.500, I.P.C., against the respondent who pleaded not  guilty.He  was	 of  the opinion, after	 the  consideration  of	 theevidence,  that the respondent had on the 13th	of  October,1952  uttered before Mr. Parab, an advocate, the  defamatorywords  with  which be was charged.  He was  further  of	 theopinion that s. 198 of the Code of Criminal Procedure  stoodin the way of his taking cognizance.  Although the complainthad been made by the person aggrieved, there was no  mentiontherein of the facts which formed the subject matter of	 theoffence	 with  which the respondent had been  charged.	 Thecomplainant, namely, the appellant not having mentioned	 thefacts	which  constituted  the	 offence  with	 which	 therespondent  had	 been charged, the charge had  been  wronglyframed.	 The Presidency Magistrate was of the opinion that acomplaint  should have been filed in respect of the  offencewith which the respondent had been charged.  As that had notbeen  done  in the recent case the charge had  been  wronglyframed.	 He accordingly acquitted the respondent.Against	 the  decision	of  the	 Presidency  Magistrate	  anapplication in revision was filed by the appellant in751the High Court of Bombay which was dismissed with the remark"Rejected as no offence".  Thereafter the appellant obtainedspecial leave from this Court to appeal against the decisionof the High Court.When the appellant filed his complaint before the PresidencyMagistrate  he	referred  to the nature	 of  the  defamatorystatement made by Phirozbai Mazarkhan which was contained isthe  notice sent to him by Mr. N. K. Parab on behalf of	 hisclient Phirozbai Mazarkhan.  After giving good many  detailsof  the correspondence which ensued thereon, he referred  tothe part played by the respondent in paragraphs 19 to 24  ofthe  complaint.	 Whatever was alleged by the  appellant	 wasthe result of knowledge obtained after enquiries.  The	mostimportant  of these paragraphs, so far as the respondent  isconcerned, is paragraph 22 which is as follows:-" I have also come to know as a result of my enquiries	thatAccused No. 2 was seen on occasions and at the relevant timegoing  to  the	office of the said  advocate  Mr.  Parab  atMazagoan  with a woman.	 My enquiries further revealed	thatAccused	 No. 2 was in fact instrumental in  connection	withthe aforesaid correspondence and filing a complaint and thatthough	in  fact  the complaint was filed  in  the  name  ofAccused No. 1 Accused No. 2 was the real person behind it."The appellant then finally alleged that Phirozbai  Mazarkhanand the respondent had conspired together and in furtheranceof  their common intention attempted to put him in  fear  ofinjury in body and reputation and in property and that	theydid  so	 with  the  object  of	committing  extortion.	  Heaccordingly asserted that the accused had committed offencesunder  ss. 385, 389 and 500/34 and 109 of the  Indian  PenalCode.At  the trial the charge which had been framed	against	 therespondent was as follows:-"  I, H. G. Mahimtura, Presidency Magistrate, hereby  chargeyou Mohomed Haji Ahmed Agbotwala as follows :-"  That	 you on or about 13-10-52 at  Bombay  defamed  AbdulRehman Mohamed Yusuf by making752or  publishing	to witness N.K.	 Parab	certain	 imputationsconcerning  the said Abdul Rehman to wit that a woman  namedPhirozbai Mazarkhan was in his keeping, that he had promisedto  marry  her	but did not keep his  promise  and  that  hecheated her of her ornaments worth about Rs. 30,000 by meansof  spoken  words  intending to harm or	 knowing  or  havingreason	to  believe  that such amputations  would  harm	 thereputation  of	the  said  Abdul  Rehman  and  you   therebycommitted  an  offence punishable under section 500  of	 theIndian Penal Code and within my cognizance." And I hereby direct that you be tried on the said charge." Charge explained." Accused pleads not guilty."It  will  be  noticed  that this  charge  asserts  that	 therespondent  had uttered defamatory words to the advocate  N.K.  Parab.   It	 had  not been asserted as  a  fact  in	 thecomplaint  that	 the respondent had uttered  any  defamatorywords  to  Mr. Parab.  The utmost which	 had  been  assertedtherein against the respondent was that he was	instrumentalin  connection with the correspondence that  ensued  betweenthe  advocate  Parab and himself and in the  filing  of	 thecomplaint by Phirozbai Mazarkhan against the appellant.It was urged on behalf of the appellant that the  PresidencyMagistrate having found that the respondent had uttered	 thewords  mentioned  in the charge to the	advocate  Parab,  heshould	not have acquitted the respondent as s. 198  of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure was no real impediment in the wayof the Presidency Magistrate.  He had taken cognizance of anoffence under s. 500/34 and 109 of the Indian Penal Code  onthe  complaint filed by the appellant.	If at the  trial  itappeared  that	an  offence  under  s.	500  only  had	beencommitted  it was open to the Presidency Magistrate to	takecognizance  of	that  offence without  the  necessity  of  aseparate  complaint  in respect thereof. It was	 also  urgedthat if the complaint was read as a whole it indicated	thatthe  respondent	 must have uttered the	words,	the  subjectmatter of the charge,753and  that  those  words were not uttered  to  Mr.  Parab  byPhirozbai  Mazarkhan only.  Finally, it was  suggested	thateven if it be assumed that for the charge framed a  separatecomplaint should have been filed and no cognizance could  betaken for the offence charged in view of s. 198 of the	Codeof Criminal Procedure and that the Presidency Magistrate wasright  in  his	opinion that he had wrongly  framed  such  acharge,	 it  was his duty to make a reference  to  the	HighCourt  for the cancellation of the charge.   The  PresidencyMagistrate acted without jurisdiction in proceeding  furtherwith  the  case and recording an order of acquittal  on	 theground	that a complaint stating the facts, upon  which	 thepresent charge could have been framed, had not been filed.On behalf of the respondent it was urged that the PresidencyMagistrate  correctly acquitted the respondent as there	 wasno  complaint for the offence as charged and s. 198  of	 theCode  of  Criminal  Procedure  prohibited  him	from  takingcognizance  of the offence mentioned in the charge.  It	 waspointed	 out  that  the	 offence  of  defamation  could	  becommitted  on  several occasions.  The	charge,	 as  framed,referred  to  the  defamatory words  alleged  to  have	beenuttered by the respondent to Mr. Parab.	 This was a separateoffence	 though of the same kind from the offence  mentionedin the complaint.It  was	 further pointed out that  although  the  PresidencyMagistrate had expressed the opinion that the respondent haduttered	 the  defamatory words charged to Mr. Parab  he	 hadgiven no grounds upon which he came to this conclusion.	  Ifthe  entire  evidence and the attending	 circumstances	weretaken  into consideration it was clear that the evidence  ofParab could not be believed.  Even if it be assumed that thePresidency Magistrate wrongly acquitted the accused this wasnot  a	case in which the order of acquittal should  be	 setaside.The  submissions  made on behalf of the	 appellant  and	 therespondent were advanced with skill and elaborate  argumentswere urged in support of the respective contentions.754It  seems  to  us that on the  findings	 of  the  PresidencyMagistrate,   he  could	 not  have  recorded  an  order	  ofacquittal.  The complaint as filed was not with reference toany  alleged defamatory words uttered by the  respondent  toMr. Parab.  Although the Presidency Magistrate believed	 theevidence of Mr. Parab he was of the opinion that he  wronglyframed	the charge as the complaint did not state the  factswhich constituted the offence with which the respondent	 hadbeen   charged.	   In  such  a	situation   the	  PresidencyMagistrate,  instead  of proceeding to record  an  order  ofacquittal,  should have brought the matter to the notice  ofthe  High Court so -that the error might be  corrected.	  Asthe  matter is before us in appeal we can do that which	 theHigh Court could have done.In  our opinion, the offence charged was a separate  offencealthough  of  the same kind from the offence in	 respect  ofwhich the facts has been stated in the complaint.  For	thisseparate offence a complaint should have been filed and	 theprovisions  of	s.  198 of the Code  of	 Criminal  Procedurecomplied  with.	  In  our opinion  the	provisions  of	thatsection	 are  mandatory.   Even in s. 238  of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure the importance of the provisions  of  s.198  or s. 199 of the Code is emphasised.  Cl. (3)  of	thissection	 specifically  states that the	provisions  of	thissection	 do  not  authorise the	 conviction  of	 an  offencereferred to in s. 198 or 199 when no complaint has been madeas  required by these sections.	 The  Presidency  Magistratewrongly framed the charge, as on the record, when in respectof the offence charged there was no complaint filed and	 thefacts as stated in the complaint actually filed did not makeout the offence as charged.It  is clear from the findings of the Presidency  Magistratethat the offence of conspiracy and abatement, as alleged  inthe complaint actually filed, had not been established.	  Heshould	have then discharged the accused and refrained	fromframing	 a charge for an offence in respect of	which  therewas  no	 complaint before him as required by s. 198  of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure.  He had no jurisdiction to framethe   charge  he  had  framed.	 His  order  of	  acquittal,therefore, must be regarded as a nullity.755In  this appeal this Court can do what the High Court  couldhave  done.  We accordingly allow the appeal and  set  asidethe  order  of acquittal made by the  Presidency  Magistratebut,  on  the finding of the Presidency Magistrate  that  nooffence of conspiracy or abetment arising therefrom bad beenestablished,  we  direct  that	the  present  complaint	  bedismissed.  The respondent is accordingly discharged.Appeal allowed.