PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF EXCESSPROFITS TAX, MADRAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:N.   M. RAYALOO IYER & SONS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/12/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1961 AIR  692		  1961 SCR  (3)	 60ACT:Excess	 Profits  Tax-Deductions-Remuneration  of   managingagent-Percentage  of  net  Profits  less   outgoings--ExcessProfits	 tax,  if  included  in	 outgoings-Construction	  ofagreement-Commission paid to branch managers-Deduction	whenof  1922), ss. 10(2)(XV), 10(2)(x)-Excess Profits  Tax	Act,1940 (15 of 1940), ss. 2(16), 19, 21, Sch.  1, cl. (12).HEADNOTE:The  respondents,  a firm carrying on business in  dyes	 andchemicals  under the name and style of Colours Trading	Com-pany, with their head office at Madurai and thirteen  branchoffices	 in different towns, were the chief  representativesin  South  India  of  the  products  of	 the  I.  C.  I.,  amanufacturing  concern.	  M  was  employed  as	the  GeneralManager of the respondents and by virtue of an agreement, hewas  to	 be paid remuneration at the rate of Rs.  3,000	 perannum  and  12-1/2%  of	 the  net  profits  of	the  companycalculated  by	deducting  from the  gross  profits  of	 thebusiness  the  salaries,  wages and  other  outgoings.	 Thebranch offices were managed by local managers and  assistantmanagers who were paid in addition to monthly salary, annualand  special bonus and dearness allowance.  The	 respondentsreceived  from the I. C. I. commission at varying  rates  onthe  different-products	 sold to them and with	effect	fromApril  1,  1944,  the I.C.I.  allowed  a  special  emergencycommission of 5% recommending that 1% out of the  commissionallowed	 may be passed on by the respondents to	 their	sub-distributors.	The respondents claimed to have	 distributedto their employees commission pursuant to the recommendationof the I.C.I. at rates varying between 2% and 7-1/2% and  insome  cases  at a rate as high as 12%.	  Though  under	 theservice	 agreement, commission was payable to the  employeesonly if the turnover exceeded Rs. 1,00,000 net in any  year,the  respondents  claimed to have paid	them  commission  atgenerous rates even when the turnover fell far short of thatamount.	 In the year of account ending April 12, 1945, therewas  a revision of the scales of salaries of the  employees,as a result of which the employees received an amount  equalto 2-1/2 times the enhanced basic salary and also commissionsometimes exceeding 12 times the basic salary.In  computing  the total income of the respondents  for	 theyears  1943-44 and 1944-45 for purposes of  income-tax,	 theincome-tax Officer disallowed the payment Of 12-1/2% of	 thenet61profits	 to M, and for the years 1945-49 he  disallowed	 thecommission  paid to the branch managers and other  employeeson the ground that taking into account all the circumstancesthe    remuneration paid to the employees  was	adequate andthat  any additional commission paid was in excess  of	whatwas   reasonable  or  necessary.   The	Appellate   Tribunalconfirmed the order of the Income-tax Officer except in	 thecase  of M to whom payment of 5% of the net profits  withoutdeduction of Excess Profits Tax or Business Profits Tax,  or12%  after  deduction  of Excess  Profits  Tax	or  BusinessProfits	  Tax,	whichever  was	higher,	 was   regarded	  aspermissible  deduction.	 The High Court, on reference,	tookthe  view, inter alia, that in determining the	net  profitsunder the agreement with M, the excess profits tax could notbe  deducted, that in considering the question	whether	 thebonus  or  commission paid to the employees in	the  presentcase  might be permitted as a justifiable deduction, in	 thelight of S. 10(2)(X) Of the Income-tax Act and r. 12 of Sch.1 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, the test of  reasonablenessof  the expenditure was to be judged from the point of	viewof  a  business	 man  and not  by  the	application  of	 anysubjective  standard  of a taxing officer, and	that  on  ananalysis  of the materials furnished, there was nothing	 perse  unreasonable in the amounts of commission actually	paidby  the	 respondents to the branch  managers  and  assistantmanagers.Held:	  (i)  that the question whether in the	 computationof the taxbale income, the commission payable to M under theagreement entered into with him by the respondents should beallowed before deducting the excess profits tax, depended onthe  true  interpretation of the agreement;  the  expression"outgoing"  in the agreement was not restricted to  businessor commercial outgoings but included the excess profits	 taxpaid  by  the  assessees, and that,  consequently,  the	 netprofits	 of which M was to be given a percentage by  way  ofcommission  should  be computed after deducting	 the  excessprofits tax paid.Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi v. Delhi Flour Mills	Co.,Ltd., [1959] SUPP. 1 S.C.R. 28, relied on.(2)  that under cl. (12) Of Sch. 1 of the Excess Profits TaxAct,  1940,  it	 was for the  Excess  Profits  Tax  Officer,subject	 to  review by the Tribunal, to decide	whether	 thededuction was reasonable and necessary, having regard to therequirements  of  the business and in case of  payments	 forservices,  to  the actual services rendered by	the  personsconcerned; it was not open to the High Court exercising	 itsjurisdiction  on questions referred to it under	 the  ExcessProfits	 Tax Act, to substitute its own view as to what	 maybe regarded as reasonable and necessary and to set aside thedecision  of the taxing authorities on a re-appreciation  ofthe evidence.  If the High Court considered that the  taxingauthorities  had committed an error in law by  misconceivingthe evidence or by applying erroneous tests or62otherwise by acting perversely, the proper course for it wasin  answering the questions submitted, to lay down the	trueprinciples   applicable	  to  the   ascertainment   of	 thepermissible  deductions	 and  to  leave	 it  to	 the  taxingauthorities  to	 adjudicate  upon  the	reasonableness	 andnecessity  of the expenses in the light of the	requirementsof the business.(3)  that there was ample evidence in support of the conclu-sion  of the Excess Profits Tax Officer which was  confirmedby  the	 Tribunal,  and	 that  the  question,  whether	 thedisallowance  by the excess profits tax authorities  of	 thecommission paid to branch managers was justified under r. 12of  Sch. 1 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, should  have	beenanswered in the affirmative.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 494 and 495of 1958.Appeals from the judgment and order dated April 18, 1955, ofthe  Madras High Court in Case referred Nos. 53 of 1952	 and44 of 1953.Hardayal Hardy and D. Gupta, for the appellant.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, R. Ganapathy Iyer, S.  Padmanabhanand G. Gopalakrishnan, for the respondent.1960.	December 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySHAH,  J.-These are two appeals filed with  certificates  offitness	 granted by the High Court of Judicature at  Madras.Appeal	No.  494  of 1958 arises out  of  orders  passed  incertain	 Excess	 Profits Tax Appeals and Appeal No.  495  of1958  arises  out  of orders passed  in	 certain  Income-taxReferences, Excess Profits Tax Appeals and Business  ProfitsTax Appeals.M/s.   N. M. Rayaloo Iyer & Sons-hereinafter referred to  asthe assessees-are a firm carrying on business principally indyes  and chemicals.  They are the chief representatives  in"South	India"	of  the products of  the  Imperial  ChemicalIndustries  Company (India) Ltd.-hereinafter referred to  asthe "I.C.I.". The business in dyes and chemicals was in	 theyears  material to these appeals, conducted in the name	 andstyle of "Colours Trading Company", with its Head Office  atMadura and in thirteen branch offices in different63towns  in  "South  India".   The  busines  was	carried	  onoriginally  in	partnership  by three  brothers,  N.  M.  R.Venkatakrishna	Iyer,  N.  M. R. Subbaraman and	 N.  M.'  R.Krishnamurti.	On  April  13, 1946,  N.  M.  R.  Subbaramanretired	  from	the  firm  and	the  share  of	N.   M.	  R.Venkatakrishna	Iyer  was taken over by	 a  private  limitedcompany	 N. M. R. Venkatakrishna Iyer & Sons Ltd.,  but	 thebusiness was, notwithstanding the changes in the  personnel,continued  in  the original name and style.  One  N.  M.  R.Mahadevan (son of N. M. R. Venkatakrishna  Iyer)-hereinafterreferred  to as Mahadevan-was employed by the  assessees  asthe  General  Manager of the Colours Trading Co.  By  letterdated  April  17,  1940, the assessees	wrote  to  Mahadevanagreeing  to pay him remuneration at the rate of  Rs.  1,800per annum and 5% of the net profits of the concern  (ColoursTrading	 Company)  calculated by deducting  from  the  grossprofits of the business, salaries, wages and other outgoingsbut  without  making any deduction for capital.	  By  letterdated  March 30, 1943, the salary of Mahadevan was fixed  atRs.  3,000 per annum and the commission was enhanced to	 12-1/2% of the net profits of the Colours Trading Company.	 Thebranch offices were managed by local managers and  assistantmanagers who were paid in addition to monthly salary, annualand  special  bonus and dearness allowance.   The  assesseesreceived  from	the  I. C. I. commission  at  rates  varyingbetween	 7-1/2% and 12% on different products sold to  them.With  effect  from  April 1, 1944, the I. C.  I.  allowed  aspecial	 emergency  commission of 5% on all  dyes  and	dye-stuffs	sold  to  the  assessees.   This  special  emergencycommission  was increased to 15 % on all sales on  or  afterMarch 1, 1945, but was subsequently reduced to 10% on  saleson and after September 1, 1946.These  appeals relate to the liability of the  assessees  toExcess	Profits	 Tax for the chargeable	 accounting  periodsending April 13, 1943, April 12, 1944, April 12, 1945,	and,March  31,  1946,  and	for Business  Profits  Tax  for	 thechargeable  accounting periods ending April 12, 1946,  March31,  1947,  April 13, 1947, March 31, 1948,  and  April	 12,1948.64The assessees claimed that they had paid to their  employeesin the years of account 1942-43 to 1947-48 under  agreementsexecuted from time to time a share in the special  emergencycommission  received  from  the I. C.  I.,  in	addition  tomonthly	 salary, dearness allowance and general and  specialbonus.	The I. C. I. in allowing the emergency commission byits  letter dated January 24, 1944, recommended that 1%	 outof  the	 5%  commission allowed may be "passed	on"  by	 theassessees   to	their  "sub-distributors".   The   assesseesclaimed	 that pursuant to this recommendation, they paid  totheir  employees commission at rates varying between  1-1/2%to  4%, and when the emergency commission was  increased  to15%  and  the I. C. I. by letter dated	February  23,  1945,recommended that 6% out of this commission may be passed  onto  the	 sub-distributors,  the assessees  claimed  to	havedistributed  commission at rates varying from 2%  to  7-1/2%and  in	 some  cases at a rate as high as  12%.	  Under	 theservice agreements, commission was payable to the  employeesonly  if the turnover in dyes exceeded Rs. 1,00,000  net  inany year, but to employees in several branches the assesseesclaimed to have paid commission at generous rates even	whenthe turnover fell far short of that amount.  In the year  ofaccount	 ending April 12, 1945, there was a revision of	 thescales	of  salaries  of the employees,	 and  the  assesseescommenced  giving to their employees dearness allowance	 andspecial	 bonus	which in the aggregate exceeded 50%  of	 thebasic  annual  salary  and also annual bonus  equal  to	 theannual	salary.	 The result of this revision  of  emolumentswas that each employee received an amount equal to at  least21  times  his enhanced basic salary.  In addition  to	thisremuneration,  the  assessees claimed that they had  paid  ashare  in  the commission which in some	 cases	exceeded  12times the basic salary.In computing the total income of the assessees for the years1943-44 and 1944-45 for purposes of income-tax, the  Income-tax  Officer  disallowed the payment of 12-1/2% of  the	 netprofits	 of  the  Colours Trading Co. to  Mahadevan  and  incomputing the income for the65assessment  years 1945-46, 1946-47, 1947-48 and	 194849	 theIncome-tax  Officer disallowed the commission. paid  to	 thebranch	managers  and  other  employees.   In appeal   theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner set aside the order  whichdisallowed  the amount of commission paid to  Mahadevan	 andfollowing the order of the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal  incertain	 Excess Profits Tax appeals, allowed 5% of  the	 netprofits without deduction of Excess Profits Tax or BusinessProfits	 Tax, or 121% after deduction of Excess Profits	 Taxor'  Business Profits Tax whichever was higher.	 That  orderwas   confirmed	 in  appeal  by	 the  Income-tax   AppellateTribunal.  The Tribunal also confirmed the order disallowingthe  emergency	commission paid to the branch  managers	 andother  employees, and in the computation of  taxable  incomefor purposes of Income-tax, Excess Profits Tax and  BusinessProfits Tax, added back all those payments.  At the instanceof  the	 assessees,  the  Tribunal  referred  two  sets	  ofquestions to the High Court under s. 66(1) of the Income-taxAct read with s. 21 of the Excess Profits Tax Act.Questions 1 to 3 in Referred Case No. 44 of 1953 were:(1)  Whether in allowing a deduction under s. 10(2)  (xv) ofthe Income-tax Act, the Income-tax Officer is precluded fromgoing  into the question whether the amount was paid  whollyand exclusively for the purpose of the assessee's business?(2)  Whether  there was any material before the Tribunal  tohold  that the commission payment to N. M. R.  Mahadevan  at121  %	before deduction of Excess Profits Tax	or  BusinessProfits Tax was not wholly and exclusively laid out for	 thepurpose of the assessee's business?(3)  Whether the commission payment to the branch  managers,assistant  managers  and other employees is  an	 expenditurelaid  out  wholly  and exclusively for the  purpose  of	 thebusiness?Questions referred in Referred Case No. 53 of 1952 were:66(1)  Whether the Appellate Tribunal erred in law in  holdingthat  in  accordance with the terms of	letters	 dated	17thApril,	1940, and 30th March, 1943, and the  conduct of	 theparties	 the  Excess  Profits Tax payable  by  the  assesseeshould be deducted from the profits before the commission of12-1/2% payable to M. N. R. Mahadevan is calculated?(2)  Whether there is any material on evidence sufficient inlaw  for the Appellate Tribunal to hold that the  commissionof  12-1/2%  on profits paid to Mahadevan  was	unreasonablewithin	the meaning of Rule 12 of Schedule 1 of	 the  ExcessProfits Tax Act?(3)  Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case	 thedisallowance  by the Excess Profits Tax authorities  of	 thecommission  paid to branch managers is justified under	Rule12 of Schedule 1 of the Excess Profits Tax Act?The  material  provisions relating to allowances  under	 theExcess	Profits	 Tax Act and the Business  Profits  Tax	 Act(which	Act  superseded the Excess Profits Tax Act  as	fromMarch  30, 1946) were on the questions arising in this	casesubstantially the same and hereafter reference to the ExcessProfits	 Tax Act will in respect of the period	after  March30,  1946,  be	deemed to be a	reference  to  the  BusinessProfits Tax Act.In  the opinion of the High Court, in computing the  taxableincome,	 the deductions claimed by the assessees fell to  beconsidered  not	 under s. 10(2)(xv) of	Income-tax  Act	 butproperly under s. 10(2)(x) of the Income-tax Act, the latterbeing a specific provision in the Act relating to  deductionof commission or bonus paid to an employee.  The High  Courtobserved  that in assessing liability to Excess Profits	 Taxthe  bonus  or commission paid to the employees of  the	 taxpayer  may  be permitted as a deduction in the light  of  s.10(2)(x)  of the Income-tax Act and r. 12 of Sch. 1  to	 theExcess Profits Tax Act.	 The case of Mahadevan, according tothe  High Court, did not present much difficulty,  the	onlyquestion  which	 fell to be determined in  this	 case  beingwhether	 in allowing deduction of commission at the rate  of12-1/2% on the net profits, the			     67Excess	Profits	 Tax paid by the assessees was to  be  takeninto account.  Following a judgment of the Punjab High Courtin  Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi v. Delhi	Flour  MillsLtd.  (1),  the High Court observed that  in  computing	 netprofits Excess Profits Tax could not be deducted, but on thematerials on the record, the question whether the commissionpaid to the branch managers and other employees was properlydeductible  could not be decided, and accordingly  the	HighCourt	called	for  and  obtained  from  the	Tribunal   asupplementary  statement  of facts.  The  High	Court  afterconsidering  the supplementary statement observed  that	 theassessees  had undoubtedly distributed substantial sums	 outof  the emergency commission to its managers  and  assistantmanagers  in  the branches at rates well  above	 the  minimarecommended  by	 the I. C. I., but the distribution  was  atrates  within  the percentages allowed by the I. C.  I.,  asadditional  commission	and  the  balance  retained  by	 theappellants   out  of  the  emergency  Commission  was	alsosubstantial.   In the view of the High Court,  the  Tribunalhad to consider three factors, (1) the reasonableness of thecommission  in the light of the conditions laid down  in  s.10(2)(x),  (2) the reasonableness of the  percentages  abovethe  minima suggested by the I. C. I., and (3) the need	 formaintaining  the  reputation  of  the  I.  C.  I.,  and	 thedistributor in conditions that prevailed during that  periodwhen  "black-marketing was rampant", but observed  the	HighCourt "the Tribunal had made no real attempt to analyse	 theevidence  before it to justify its conclusion that only	 theminima	recommended  by	 the I.C.I. and	 nothing  in  excesssatisfied the test of reasonableness under r. 12, Sch. 1, ofthe  Excess  Profits  Tax Act".	 They  then  observed  that,whether the test of reasonableness is that prescribed by  s.10(2)(x) of the Income-tax Act or whether reasonableness hasto be judged in the light of commercial expediency under  r.12,  Sch. 1, of the Excess Profits Tax Act, the	 expenditurewas to be judged from the point of view of a businessman andnot  by	 the  application of any subjective  standard  of  ataxing(1)  [1953] 23 I.T.R. 167.68officer and that on an analysis of the materials  furnished,they were unable to see anything per se unreasonable in	 theamounts of commission actually paid by the assessees to	 thebranch managers and assistant managers in the branches.	 TheHigh Court also observed that the minima recommended by	 theI.  C. I. did not provide the only or an  absolute  standardfor  judging  the reasonableness of the payments  made,	 andstated:	      "No doubt, the employees of the assessee	were	      in  receipt of regular salaries  and  bonuses.	      But then, a sub-distributor if he had not been	      paid  a  salary, would have had to be  paid  a	      share  of the basic commission  itself.	What	      the assessee got in the years in question	 was	      in  the  nature of a windfall.  It  shared  it	      with its employees.  It had been instructed to	      share   it.   The	 emergency  commission	 was	      allowed by the Imperial Chemical Industries so	      that  the	 distributors  could  maintain	 the	      reputation of the Imperial Chemical Industries	      in   the	market	even  under  the   disturbed	      conditions that prevailed in those years.	 If,	      to  maintain that reputation and	to  maintain			    its	 own,  the assessee paid to  its  employees	      even  on	a  liberal basis, a  share  of	that	      emergency commission, it is a little difficult	      to  hold that, while receipt of the  emergency	      commission was reasonable, sharing it beyond a	      particular point would per se be unreasonable,	      in  the sense that no prudent  businessman  in	      that line of business, in those years, and  in	      the market condition that prevailed then, with	      ample  scope for black-marketting, would	have	      paid out commission on such a basis".	      They then concluded:	      "Though, of course, it was for the assessee to	      show  that  it was entitled to  the  deduction	      claimed  under s. 10(2)(x) of  the  Income-tax	      Act and r. 12 of Sch.  1 of the Excess Profits	      Tax  Act, there was really no basis on  record	      to show that judged from the point of view  of	      a	 businessman,  payments	 in  excess  of	 the	      minima  recommended by the  Imperial  Chemical	      Industries were not reasonable.  We are of	      69	      opinion that the entire claim should have been	      allowed both under s. 10(2)(x) of the  Income-	      tax  Act	and under r. 12 of Sch.	  1  of	 the	      Excess Profits Tax Act on the ground that	 the	      statutory	 requirements were satisfied by	 the	      assessee."The High Court accordingly answered the questions about	 thedisallowance  of  commission paid to the  employees  of	 theassessees being justified under r. 12, Sch. 1, of the ExcessProfits,  Tax  Act in the negative.  Against  those  orders,these  two appeals have been preferred with certificates  offitness from the High Court.The  first question which falls to be considered is  whetherin the computation of taxable income for purposes of Income-tax and Excess Profits Tax, commission allowed to  Mahadevanat  12-1/2%  should be allowed after  deducting	 the  ExcessProfits Tax paid.  By the agreement dated April 17, 1940, asmodified  by the agreement dated March 30,  1943,  Mahadevanwas  to	 be paid remuneration at the rate of Rs.  3,000	 perannum  and 121 % of the net profits of the  Colours  TradingCompany.   In the view of the High Court in determining	 the"net  profits" under the agreement "in accordance  with	 theprinciples of commercial accountancy and the principles laiddown  under the Excess Profits Tax Act" the  Excess  ProfitsTax which is a tax on profits could not be deducted.  In ourjudgment  the question is one of the true interpretation  ofthe agreement.	Mahadevan was under the agreement to receive121%  commission on the net profits of the  Colours  TradingCo.  calculated by deducting from the gross. profits of	 thebusiness  the  salaries,  wages and  other  outgoings.	 Theexpression  "outgoings"	 is not restricted  to	business  orcommercial    outgoings.    The	   agreement	specificallydisentitles  the  employers to make  deductions	 of  capitalexpenditure,  but there is no indication that the  outgoingsare to be business outgoings only.  There is nothing in	 theagreement or in the context justifying the view that in	 theexpression  'outgoings' is not included the  Excess  ProfitsTax paid by the assessees.In Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi v. Delhi70Flour  Mills Co. Ltd. (1), it was observed by this Court  inconstruing  a similar agreement that the Excess Profits	 Taxwas a part of the profits itself, but it was no part of	 thenet  profits contemplated by the parties; if it was  a	partwhich  had  to be deducted in arriving at the  net  profits,that  is  to  say, the divisible  profits  which  alone	 theparties	 had  in mind, as a matter of construction  the	 netprofits	 meant divisible profits and were to be	 ascertainedafter deduction of Excess Profits Tax.Counsel	 for the Revenue has not challenged the decision  ofthe  High  Court that in computing taxable  income  for	 thepurpose	 of  income-tax	 commission  paid  to  the   variousemployees  is a permissible deduction under s.	10(2)(x)  ofthe  Income-tax	 Act.  The only question which	survives  onthis  branch for consideration is, therefore, whether  thosedeductions  are	 permissible  in the  assessment  of  ExcessProfits Tax.By  s.	21  of the Excess Profits  Tax	Act,  amongst  otherprovisions,  s. 10 of the Income-tax Act is made  applicablewith modifications if any as may be prescribed as if it werea provision of the Excess Profits Tax Act and refers to	 theExcess Profits Tax instead of Income-tax.  By s. 2(19),	 theexpression "profits" means profits determined in  accordancewith  Sch.   1	of the Act which lays  down  the  rules	 forcomputation of profits for the purpose of Excess Profits TaxAct.   Rule  12 of Sch. 1 (which was added by s.  4  of	 theExcess Profits Tax Ordinance, 1943 provided as follows:"(1)  In computing the profits of any chargeable  accountingperiod no deduction shall be allowed in respect of  expensesin excess of the amount which the Excess Profits Tax Officerconsiders  reasonable  and necessary having  regard  to	 therequirements  of the business and in the case of  directors'fees or other payments for services, to the actual  servicesrendered by the person concerned:Provided that no disallowance under this rule shall be	madeby the Excess Profits Tax Officer unless he has obtained theprior authority of the Commissioner of Excess Profits Tax. (2) [1959] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 28.71(2)  Any person who is dissatisfied with the decision of theExcess	Profits Tax Officer under this rule may.  appeal  inthe prescribed time and manner to the Appellate Tribunal.(3)  In	 relation  to chargeable accounting  periods  endingafter the 31st day of December, 1942, the Central Governmentmay   make  rules  for	determining  the  extent  to   whichdeductions  shall  be  allowed	in  respect  of	 bonuses  orcommissions paid.We  were  informed at the bar that  though  authorised,	 theCentral	 Government did not make rules for  determining	 theextent	to which deductions shall be allowed in	 respect  ofbonuses or commissions paid.  The Excess Profits Tax Act wassubstituted  as from the year 1946 by the  Business  ProfitsTax  Act, 1947.	 That Act also defined by' s. 2,  cl.  (16),the  expression "profits" as meaning profits  determined  inaccordance with Sch.  1 and by s. 19, the provisions of	 thesections  of  the Indian Income-tax Act as  applied  to	 theExcess Profits Tax Act by virtue of ss. 21 and 21A in so farthey  were not repugnant to the provisions of  the  BusinessProfits	 Tax  Act  applied to that Act as  they	 applied  toExcess Profits Tax Act and by cl. (3) of Sch. 1, a provisionsubstantially  similar to cls. (1) & (2) of cl. 12, Sch.  1,of the Excess Profits Tax Act was incorporated.Profits of a business for purposes of Excess Profits Tax Acthave to be ascertained by reference to s. 10 of the  Income-tax  Act  modified to the extent directed by Sch. 1  of	 theExcess	Profits	 Tax  Act.  By cl. (12) of Sch.	  1  of	 theExcess	Profits Tax Act, a deduction in respect of  expensesin  excess  of	the amounts which  the	Excess	Profits	 TaxOfficer considers reasonable and necessary having regard  tothe requirements of the business and in the case of paymentsfor services to the actual services rendered by the  personsconcerned,  is	not  to be allowed.   The  deduction  to  beallowed,  it  is true, does not depend upon  any  subjectivesatisfaction  of  the  Excess Profits Tax  Officer,  but  onobjective  standards as to what is reasonable and  necessaryhaving regard to the requirements of the business and in thecase of payments for services72to  the actual services rendered by the	 persons  concerned.The order passed by the Excess Profits Tax ,'Officer is opento review by the Tribunal to which appeal against the  orderof the Excess Profits Tax Officer lies.	 But in	 consideringwhether the deduction is properly claimed, the primary	dutyis  vested  by	the Legislature in the	Excess	Profits	 TaxOfficer.  It is for him subject to review by the Tribunal todecide	whether the deduction is reasonable  and  necessary,having	regard	to the requirements of the business  and  incase  of  payments  for	 services  to  the  actual  servicesrendered.   The jurisdiction which the High Court  exerciseson questions referred to it under the Excess Profits Tax Actis merely advisory; the High Court is not sitting in  appealover the judgment of the taxing authorities.  If the  taxingauthorities  having  regard to the circumstances come  to  aconclusion  that expenditure claimed as a deduction  is	 notreasonable  and necessary, it is not open to the High  Courtto  substitute	its own view as to what may be	regarded  asreasonable and necessary.  Even if the High Court holds thatthe  taxing  authorities have committed an error in  law  bymisconceiving the evidence, or by applying erroneous  tests,or  otherwise  by acting perversely, the High Court  may  inanswering  the	questions  submitted,  lay  down  the	trueprinciples   applicable	  to  the   ascertainment   of	 thepermissible   deductions   and	leave  it  to	the   taxingauthorities  to	 adjudicate  upon  the	reasonableness	 andnecessity  of the expenses in the light of the	requirementsof the business.In  the case in hand, the Excess Profits Tax  Officer  held,(a)  that  the employees of the assessees were	being  amplyremunerated  for  services  rendered  by  adequate   salary,generous  dearness allowance and annual bonus equal  to	 thebasic  salary, (b) that the emoluments of the employees	 hadbeen increased year after year and there was no material  toshow  that  the employees had made a persistent	 demand	 forincreased  emoluments, (c) that the commission was  creditedto  the	 employees' account at the end of the year  and	 wascarried forward but no payments were made to73them' (d) that the agreements which had been produced by theassessees  were	 fabricated  with  a  view  to,	 reduce	 taxliability,  and	 (e) that the expenditure' claimed  was	 notproved to have been laid out wholly and exclusively for	 thepurpose	  of  the  business.   Taking  into  account   thesecircumstances, the Excess Profits Tax Officer held that	 theremuneration  paid  to the employees was  adequate  and	 anyadditional  commission	paid  was  in  excess  of  what	 wasreasonable  and	 necessary.   The only	criticism  urged  bycounsel for the assessees against the grounds given is	thatthe  Excess Profits Tax Officer observed that while the	 netprofit	according to the Profit & Loss Account of  the	firmwas Rs. 20,487 leaving a share of Rs. 6,800 only to each  ofthe  partners,	some  of the managers  got  more  than	thisamount.	  It  appears that the Excess  Profits	Tax  Officercommitted  an  error in so observing.  The  profits  of	 theColours Trading Co. as disclosed by the order of  assessmentfor the year 1945-46 were Rs. 99,435 and not Rs. 20,487; butthat  error did not affect the ultimate conclusion  recordedby  the Excess Profits Tax Officer.  According to the  booksof  account  of the assessees for the year  1943-44  of	 thebusiness  in  dyes,  the profits were Rs.  99,435  and	theyclaimed to have distributed a commission of Rs. 1,00,715 totheir  employees out of the emergency commission, which	 wasprima  facie wholly disproportionate to the amount  receivedby them.The  order  passed  by the Excess Profits  Tax	Officer	 wasconfirmed in appeal by the Appellate Tribunal.	In the	viewof  the	 Appellate  Tribunal, no  additional  incentive	 wasrequired to sell dyes and chemicals in the years in questionbecause	 dyes and chemicals were in short supply  and  therewas  a	rise in demand.	 The Tribunal also referred  to	 thetable  setting out the distribution among the  employees  ofdearness allowance, bonus and salary in the relevant  years,and observed:	      "In  addition to the generous allowances,	 the	      payment  of this sum appears to us  a  payment	      made  in order to dissipate the  profits.	  It	      would be sufficient to say that including	 the	      commission alleged 10	      74	      to have been paid, the total emoluments  would	      be something like 1200% and in some cases even	      more  than the basic annual salary.  There  is	      no  doubt	 in our mind, that this	 was  wholly	      unnecessary for business purposes."Observing that the assessees having no sub-distributors, thedirection given by the I.C.I. did not require the  assesseesto  "pass  on"	the  commission	 to  their  employees,	theyconcluded that the expenditure alleged to have been incurredwas  not reasonable and necessary within the meaning  of  r.12, Sch. 1, of the Excess Profits Tax Act.The  following table which is incorporated in the  statementof  case  of  the Tribunal sets out for the  four  years  inquestion the emergency commission received by the  assesseesand the aggregate amount paid by them to their employees.		 Extra commis-	       Amount of commis-Assessment	 sion received	       sion paid by theyear.		 by the assessee.      assessee.		       Rs.		  Rs.1945-46		       1,28,533		  1,00,7151946-47		       3,20,391		  2,44,6981947-48		       3,15,934		  1,28,5061948-49		       3,70,964		  1,75,079This  distribution  out of the emergency commission  to	 theemployees  has to be viewed in the context of the  followingcircumstances set out by the Tribunal:(1)that even though the I.C.I. recommended payment to sub-distributors and the assessees had no sub-distributors, theyclaimed to have paid commission to their     employees	  atrates in excess of the minimum rates recommended by I.C.I.(2)  that  this	 commission  was paid to  the  employees  inbranches  in  which the annual turnover did not	 exceed	 Rs.1,00,000 even though the agreements which the assessees	 hadexecuted  expressly provided that the commission was  to  bepaid only if the annual turnover in a branch exceeded Rs.  Ilakh and(3)that	 the  basic  salaries of the  employees	 had  beensubstantially  increased  from	time to	 time  and  generousdearness allowance and Deepavali bonus75were given besides the annual bonus to the employees.An  analysis of annexure 'IL" to the supplemental  statementof  case  made	by  the	 Tribunal  discloses  some  strikinginstances of Payments to employees.  One Themaswamy was paidannually  commission varying from Rs. 15,000 to	 Rs.  23,000when  his  basic salary was Rs. 2,100 per annum; one  K.  N.Rajagopalachari was paid commission varying from Rs.  16,000to Rs. 12,000 when his basic salary was Rs. 1,260 per annum;one S. L. Radhakrishnan was paid commission varying from Rs.5,700  to Rs. 13,000 when his salary varied between Rs.	 516and  Rs.  636  per annum and one K. R.	Rama  Rao  was	paidcommission  varying from Rs. 4,600 to Rs. 10,520 his  salarybeing Rs. 492 and later increased to Rs. 612 per annum.There  was thus ample evidence in support of the  conclusionof the Excess Profits Tax Officer which was confirmed by theTribunal.   As we have already observed, it is the  provinceof the Excess Profits Tax Officer and the Tribunal to assessthe permissible deductions in the context of  reasonablenessand  necessity	having	regard to the  requirements  of	 thebusiness and interference with the conclusion is permissibleif  the	 view of the taxing authorities is  vitiated  by  anerror  of  law	or is not based on  any	 materials,  or	 theconclusion is such that no man instructed in law could	havearrived	 at.   It is true that in  considering	whether	 thededuction  claimed  by the assessees for  payments  made  asbonus  or commission paid to an employee is to	be  allowed,the taxing officer must have regard to the provisions of  s.10(2)(x) of the Income-tax Act and cl. (12) of Sch. 1 of theExcess Profits Tax Act; and in assessing the reasonableness,consideration  of commercial expediency must undoubtedly  betaken  into  account.	But commercial	expediency  must  beviewed in the light of the requirements of the business	 andthe actual services rendered by the persons concerned.	 Anyabstract  consideration of commercial expediency is  out  ofplace.In our view, the High Court was not justified in seeking  toreappreciate the evidence on which the76conclusion  of	the  Excess Profits Tax	 Officer  which	 wasconfirmed  by  the Tribunal was based.	 Their	jurisdictionbeing  advisory, the High Court had to answer the  questionssubmitted for opinion on the facts found; if the High  Courtheld  the view that the taxing authorities  had	 misdirectedthemselves  in law or had made a wrong inference in  law  orhad  failed to apply the correct tests or  had	misconceivedthe  evidence, it was. open to them to invite the  attentionof  taxing authorities to the error committed by  them;	 butthe  High  Court  could not set aside the  decision  of	 thetaxing authorities on a reappreciation of the evidence.	  Wemay  also  point out that even if the High  Court  concludedthat the total disallowance of the deduction claimed was notjustified, the High Court could not substitute its own	viewas  to	what was reasonable and necessary.  The	 High  Courtbad,  if it disagreed with the taxing authorities, still  toanswer	 the   questions   submitted  and   leave   to	 theconsideration of the Excess Profits Tax Officer what in	 thecircumstances was reasonable and necessary.Counsel	 for the assessees submitted that in any event,	 theTribunal  having  in  its supplementary	 statement  of	casestated that payment in excess of what was recommended by theI.C.I.	was unjustified, this court may so modify the  orderof the High Court that deductions of the amounts which	wererecommended  by	 the I.C.I. may be regarded  as	 permissibledeductions.   The  I.C.I.  recommended	distribution  of   acertain	 percentage out of the emergency commission  to	 thesub-distributors;  but in the administrative set up  of	 theassessees,  the sub-distributors did not find a place.	 Theassessees carried on their business through paid  employees.In  terms therefore the recommendation by the I.C.I. had  noapplication  to the assessees.	It is true that even if	 theassessees  did	not  carry  on	the  business  through	sub-distributors,  payment made to its employees  if  reasonableand  necessary	having	regard to the  requirements  of	 thebusiness, may still be deductible, but that in our  judgmentis a matter to be decided by the taxing authorities and	 notby us.			     77The  Tribunal had come to the conclusion that no payment  inaddition to the salary, annual bonus and, special bonus	 wasjustified  and any expression of opinion to the contrary  inthe  supplementary  statement  pursuant	 to  the  order	 forstatement  of  case  could not in our  judgment	 affect	 theconclusion originally recorded.In  our	 view  the  answer  to	the  question  whether	 thedisallowance  by the Excess Profits Tax authorities  of	 thecommission  paid to branch managers was justified  under  r.12,  Sch. 1, of the Excess Profits Tax Act should have	beenanswered  in  the  affirmative.	 On the view  taken  by	 us,Appeal	No. 494/1958 will be allowed, but there will  be  noorder as to costs.Appeal No. 495 of 1958 will be allowed with *costs.Appeals allowed.