PETITIONER:SHRIMANT APPASAHEB TULJARAM DESAIAND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:BHALCHANDRA VITHALRAO THUBEDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/10/1960BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.DAYAL, RAGHUBARCITATION: 1961 AIR  589		  1961 SCR  (2) 163ACT:Watan	Property--Building  on	watan  land--  constructionssubsequent  to	creation of  watan-Building,  whether  watanproperty--Building  belonging to an  agriculturist-Liabilityfor attachment and sale-" Agriculturist "meaning of BombayHereditary Offices Act, 1874 (Bom 3 of 1874), s. 4 Code	 ofCivil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908), s. 60(1), proviso (b)(c).HEADNOTE:In  respect of a decree passed against T, who was the  ownerof  certain watan properties, a building standing  on  watanland  comprised	 in the said properties, was  sought  to  beattached   and	sold  in  execution  of	 the  decree.	 Theappellant,  who was the legal representative of	 T,  claimedthat  the  building:was not liable for attachment  and	salebecause	 (1)  the  building, being part	 of  watan  propertywithin the meaning of s. 4 of the Bombay Hereditary  OfficesAct, 1874, was not saleable property under sub-s. (1) of  s.60  of	the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, and	(2)  in	 anycase, he was an agriculturist and the building belonging  toand  occupied by him was protected from attachment and	saleby  cl.	 (c) of the proviso to sub-s. (i) of s.	 60  of	 theCode.	The  facts  showed  that the  building	was  not  inexistence  when	 the watan was first created  but  had	beenbuilt subsequently by one of the watandars and there was  noindication  on the record that the building was	 constructedfor   the   purpose  of	 providing  remuneration   for	 theperformance of the duty appertaining to a hereditary office.The evidence also showed that the appellant was not entirelydependent  for his livelihood upon the income from the	homefarm,  that he had substantial income from other  lands	 andthat there was nothing to show that this income derived fromhis other lands was the result of cultivation by him.Held, that the building in question was not an accession  tothe  land so as to partake of the character of the  land  onwhich  it  was	constructed  and did  not  come	 within	 thedefinition  of	watan  property	 in  S.	 4  of'	 the  BombayHereditary Offices Act, 1874.Held,  further	(per  jafer Imam  and  Raghubar	 Dayal,	 jj.Sarkar, J., dissenting), that the word " agriculturist "  incl. (c) of the proviso to sub-s. (1) of s. 60 of the Code ofCivil  Procedure, 1908, must carry the same meaning  as	 theword  in cl. (b) and that in order that a person might	comewithin	the meaning of the word in those clauses it must  beshown  that,  he  was really dependent	for  his  living  ontilling the soil and was unable to164maintain himself otherwise, though it was not necessary thathe must till the land with his own hands.That  on  the facts the appellant was not  an  agriculturistwithin the meaning of the word in s. 60 of the Code.Case law reviewed.Per  Sarkar,  J.-(1)  On  the  plain  meaning  of  the	wordagriculturist " in cls. (b) and (c) of the proviso to sub-s.(1) of s. 60 of the Code an agriculturist is any person	 whooccupies himself with agriculture.  There is nothing in	 cl.(c) to indicate that the agriculturist there mentioned	mustbe one who depends for his living on agriculture.  A  personoccupying himself with agriculture would be an agriculturistthough	he did not cultivate with his own hands and  carriedon, agriculture in a very large scale.	He would still be anagriculturist  even  if	 he had other  means  of  livelihoodbesides agriculture.(2)  Under  cl.	 (c)  in order	that  houses  and  buildingsbelonging  to  an  agriculturist  might	 be  protected	fromattachment  and	 sale they must be occupied by him  for	 thepurpose of agriculture.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 716 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated July 29, 1955,  ofthe former Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 50 of 1953  underthe  Letters  Patent against the judgment and  decree  datedSeptember  3, 1953, of the said High Court in  First  AppealNo. 547 of 1952. H. N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India, T.  V.R. Tatachari and M. S. K. Sastri, for the appellants.Purshottam  Trikamdas, H. R. Gokhale and R.  Gopalakrishnan,for the respondent.1960.  October 28.  The Judgment of Jafer Imam and  RaghubarDayal,	JJ., was delivered by Jafer Imam, J. A.	 K.  Sarkar,J., delivered a separate judgment.IMAM J.-This is an appeal against the judgment of a DivisionBench of the Bombay High Court in Letters Patent Appeal	 No.50 of 1953, reversing the decision of Shah, J. and restoringthe  order passed by the executing court which had been	 setaside by him.Two Questions arise for decision in this appeal (1)  whetherthe  Wada  (house) ordered to be attached by  the  executingcourt is Watan property, and if so, can			    165it be attached in execution of a decree ? (2) If the Wada isnot  Watan  property,  is it exempted  from  attachment	 byvirtue	of  the	 provisions of s. 60 of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure ?It  is	necessary  now to state a few facts.   One  Rao	 Ba.Vithalrao  Laxmanrao  Thube,  hereinafter  referred  to	  asLaxmanrao,  brought  Civil  Suit No.  313  of  1943  againstTuljaramarao  Narainrao	 Desai, hereinafter referred  to  asTuljaramarao, to recover Rs. 80,000 which had been  borrowedby him from the plaintiff.  Laxmanrao's suit was decreed  onDecember  20,  1943.   Tuljaramarao having  died  his  legalrepresentatives, the present appellants, were brought on therecord	on  September 21, 1944.	 In April,  1949,  Laxmanraofiled  an application for the execution of the	decree.	  Hesought the attachment, with a view to their subsequent sale,of  certain  properties	 including the	Wada  which  is	 thesubject-matter	of this appeal.	 The appellants objected  tothe  proposed attachment on various grounds.  The  executingcourt  on December 17, 1951, issued a warrant of  attachmentonly against the Wada in question.  The appellants  appealedto  the Bombay High Court.  Their appeal was heard by  Shah,J., who by his order dated September 23, 1953, set aside theorder  of attachment relying on the decision of Chagla,	 J.,in  second  Appeal No. 760 of 1942.  He,  however,  gave  nodecision on the question whether s. 60 of the Code of  CivilProcedure  gave	 protection  to the  Wada  from	 attachment.Against the decision of Shah, J., there was an appeal  underthe  Letters Patent of the High Court which was heard  by  aDivision  Bench.   The Division Bench,	as  already  stated,reversed  the  decision of Shah, J. and restored  the  ordermade  by the executing court.  Subsequently, the High  Courtgave a certificate that the case was a fit one for appeal tothis Court.It  is undisputed that the whole of village Nandi  had	beengranted	 as  inam to the ancestor of  Tuljaramarao  and	 hisdescendants as per Sanad, Ext. 54, and the Inam Patrak, Ext.57.  In that Sanad there is no mention of any Wada  existingon the Inam land.  According to the executing court the Wada166appears	 to  have been built after the	grant.	 It  appearsthat-  the opinion of the Division Bench of the High  Courtwas  also to the same effect.  There is no finding of  Shah,J.,  to the contrary.  We must,	 therefore, proceed  on	 thebasis that the Wada in	    question was not the subject  ofthe original grant. This Wada came to be constructed on	 theland in the inam village of Nandi sometime subsequent to thegrant."What  has  to	be decided is, do the  attributes  of  WatanProperty  " accrue to the Wada which was  constructed  afterthe grant on land which was admittedly " Watan Property " asdefined	 by the Bombay Hereditary Offices Act, 1874  (BombayAct  No. III of 1874), hereinafter referred to as  the	Act.In  appeal No. 760 of 1942, Chagla, J., took the  view	thatthe house in that case was an accession to the site on whichit stood.  Accordingly, it must partake of the character  ofthe  land on which it stood.  The learned Judge stated	thatthe question which he had to determine was whether the housewas immovable property held for the performance of the	dutyappertaining  to an hereditary office within the meaning  ofs.  4  of  the Act.  Having regard to the  definition  of  "immoveable  property " in the Bombay General Clauses Act  hewas  of the opinion that the house certainly formed part  ofthe  immoveable property which was held for the	 performanceof  the	 duty appertaining to the hereditary office  of	 theWatan and that the only answer to the question " what is theimmoveable property which is held for the performance of theduty  under section 4?" can be both the land and the  house.If the house forms part of the immoveable property it is notpossible  to  sever the two and to say that it is  only	 theland  which  is Watan property and not the  house  which  ispermanently  fastened  to  it.	Shah, J.,  relied  upon	 thedecision of Chagla, J., and held that the land on which	 theWada  in the present case stood, being Watan  property,	 theWada  must also be deemed to have acquired  that  character.The  Division  Bench  which heard  the	appeal	against	 thedecision  of  Shah, J., was of the opinion that	 although  ahouse167built on land must be regarded as immoveable property it didnot  follow  that like the land on which it  was  built	 thehouse  became  Watan  property.	  The  fact  that  a   housesubsequently built became immoveable property would have  nomaterial  bearing  on  the question  whether  it  was  Watanproperty or not.  In order that the house may be regarded asWatan  property	 it must satisfy the test laid down  by	 thedefinition of the word " Watan Property " in s. 4 of the Actand  that if the word " held " was construed in the  way  inwhich  the learned Judges of the Division Bench	 thought  itshould	be, it would be difficult to accept the view that  ahouse  subsequently  built by a watandar on a  part  of	 theWatan  land  could  be	said  to be  held  by  him  for	 theperformance  of	 his  duties of a  hereditary  office.	 Thelearned Judges of the Division Bench accordingly were of theopinion that Shah, J., erred in so holding." Watan Property " has been defined in the Act to mean:"  The	moveable or immoveable property held,  acquired,  orassigned  for providing remuneration for the performance  ofthe duty appertaining to an hereditary office.	It  includesa right	 to levy customary fees or perquisites, in money  orin kind, whether at fixed times or otherwise.It includes cash payments in addition to the original  watanproperty  made	voluntarily  by	 the  State  Government	 andsubject periodically to modification or withdrawal."The   inam   lands  of	Nandi  were  undoubtedly   held	  asremuneration for the performance of the duty appertaining toan  hereditary office and therefore were  Watan	 properties.On the findings of the courts below the Wada in question wasnot the subject of the grant.  In our opinion, therefore, atno  time  was  it held for providing  remuneration  for	 theperformance of the duty appertaining to a hereditary office.Nor  could it be said to have been acquired for	 performanceof  any	 such  duty.   It had  been  constructed  some	timesubsequent  to	the  grant  either by  the  grantee  or	 hisdescendants and there is no indication on the record     168that  it  was  constructed  for	 the  purpose  of  providingremuneration for the performance of the duty appertaining toa hereditary office. To that extent at least	  it appearsto be clear that the Wada in question does   not come withinthe definition of Watan property as	defined in the	Act.The only question is whether  having  been  constructed	  onland  which is Watan property and being	 immovable  propertywithin	the meaning of the Bombay General Clauses Act,	doesit partake of the character of the land on which it stood  ?On  behalf of the appellants it was argued that the Wada  isan  accession  to the Watan property, namely,  the  land  ofvillage Nandi. It seems to us, however, that construction ofa  Wada on land which is Watan property is not an  accessionto it, as accession to the    land would suggest that over acourse	of  years imperceptible accretion to  the  land	 hastaken  place  and  it  was  impossible	to  distinguish	 theoriginal  land from  the accreted land. In such a  case	 theaccreted land  may possibly partake of the character of	 theoriginal  land.	  Adjacent lands to the original land  whichhave  been acquired and can be distinguished cannot  partakeof the character of the original land.     On behalf of the appellants it was argued that the	    right,title and interest of the grantor had to be looked at  firstin construing a grant and if it appeared from	  the  termsthereof that it did not contain any reservation or exceptionthen all the rights, title and interest of the grantor whichhe was capable of granting would   pass to the grantee.	 Thegrantor in this case was the  Government  which	 could	havebuilt a construction on	 the land granted or dug tube  wellson it. The grantee,	 therefore, could also build a houseor  any other structure on the land. On the other  hand,  itwas contended on behalf of the respondent that the  positionof  a  watandar	 was not that of an absolute  owner  of	 theland. He held the land on certain conditions. The      landwas liable to forfeiture if he was guilty of certain   actsmentioned in s. 60 and Schedule 11 of the Act.	  We	willassume, there being nothing to the contrary	  in	 theSanad,	 that	the   grantee  was   not   restricted	fromconstructing a building on the land. From that,169however, it does not necessarily follow that the building soconstructed became Watan property within the meaning of	 theAct.   If the Government could have built a construction  onthe  land it could also have dismantled it and	removed	 thematerial  with	which it was made.  Similarly,	the  granteecould  do so, there being no restriction in that  regard  inthe  terms  of the Sanad.  It seems to us that on  a  properconstruction of the Sanad there was no impediment in the wayof the grantee from dismantling the house which he had builtand   removing	the  materials	with  which  it	  had	beenconstructed and selling the same.  Indeed, unless it is heldthat  a	 house	constructed  on the  land  partakes  of	 thecharacter  of  the  land, it is difficult  to  see  how	 thegrantee	 is prevented from selling or mortgaging it but	 notthe land on which it stood.  It seems to us, therefore, thatthe Wada in the present case although immovable property didnot  partake  of the character of the land on which  it	 wasconstructed  because it was severable from the land and	 wascapable of being dismantled and the materials of which couldbe removed and sold without violating any of the  provisionsof  the Act.  In our opinion, the decision of  the  DivisionBench of the High Court that the Wada was not Watan propertyappears to be correct.The  next question for consideration is whether the Wada  isone belonging to an agriculturist and occupied by him withinthe  meaning  of cl. (c) of the proviso to s. 60(1)  of	 theCode of Civil Procedure.  If it is, then it is exempted fromattachment  by the provisions of the proviso.  It was  urgedthat  as the word " agriculturist " has not been defined  inthe  Code,  the	 word must be  construed  according  to	 itsordinary  meaning.   According	to  Shorter  Oxford  EnglishDictionary  this word can also mean a farmer.	Neither	 theextent	of the land farmed by him nor the amount  of  incomederived	 by  him from cultivating the land  was	 a  relevantconsideration  in construing the word  ".agriculturist	"Norwould  it  be right to restrict the meaning of	the  word  "agriculturist  "  to mean that an agriculturist	 must  be  aperson who himself or by the aid170of the members of his family tills the land and not with theaid  of	 employed labour.  On behalf  of  the	 respondent,however, it was contended that the word "agriculturist "  inel.  (c)  of the proviso must bear the same meaning  as	 theword " agriculturist " in cl. (b)   of the proviso.   It wasnecessary, therefore, to construe the provisions of cl.	 (b)as well in order to under. stand what the Code intended	 theword  "	 agriculturist " to mean in cl. (c).   On  a  properconstruction  of el. (b) not only an agriculturist  must  bethe  tiller  of	 the  land  but he  must  also	be  a  smallagriculturist.	 Clause (b) was not intended to refer  to  aperson who cultivated a large area of land and derived	fromit  a large income.  It was pointed out that in the  presentcase  the appellant Appasaheb was cultivating a	 very  largearea of land with the aid of employed labour and derived  anincome	somewhere  between  Rs. 30,000	to  35,000  a  year.Section 60(1) of the Code states in detail what property  ofa  judgment debtor is liable to attachment and sale  in	 theexecution  of  a  decree.  It was urged	 that  but  for	 theproviso all the properties of Tuljaramarao other than  Watanproperty were liable to attachment and sale in execution  ofLaxmanrao's  decree.   The proviso no  doubt  exempted	fromattachment and sale certain properties mentioned therein butcl. (b) of the proviso clearly indicated that the object  ofthe  Code was to save in the case of a judgment	 debtor	 histools as an artisan and, where he was an agriculturist,	 hisimplements  of husbandry and such cattle and seed-grains  asmay,  in the opinion of the court, be necessary to earn	 hislivelihood.  It did not even exempt his agricultural produceunless	there  was a notification under s. 61  of  the	Codespecifying  by	a general or special order how much  of	 theagricultural  produce  was,  in the  opinion  of  the  StateGovernment,  necessary for the purpose of  providing,  untilthe next harvest, for due cultivation and the support of thejudgment   debtor  and	his  family.   It   was	  suggested,therefore, that the Code intended to exempt from  attachmentand  sale, in the case of an agriculturist, only  that	muchwhich was necessary to enable him to earn his livelihood  assuch.171interpreted  by various High Courts in India.  Reference  toonly  some  of	these cases need be made.  In  the  case  ofHanmantrao Annarao v. Dhruvaraj Pandurangrao (1) it was heldby the Bombay High Court that the word " agriculturist "  incls.  (b) and (c) of the proviso to s. 60(1) of the Code  ofCivil  Procedure denotes persons who are personally  engagedin  tilling  and cultivating the land and  whose  livelihooddepends upon the proceeds of such tillage and cultivation ofthe soil.  It does not include large landed proprietors eventhough	they  may  be tilling the land	and  cultivating  itthrough	  their	 servants.   In	 the  case  of	 ParvataneniLakshmayya  v.	The Official Receiver of Kistna (2)  a	FullBench  of  the Madras High Court arrived  at  the  followingconclusion  after considering various decisions of  some  ofthe High Courts in India:-" We think that, having regard to the scheme of the  sectionexempting  from attachment, as it does, tools  of  artisans,and,  where the judgment debtor is an " agriculturist "	 hisimplements  of husbandry and such cattle and  seed-grain  asmay  in the opinion of the Court be necessary to enable	 himto  earn his livelihood, and his houses and other  buildingsoccupied by him, protection is intended to be given to thosewho  are  real tillers of the land, and that an	 "  agricul-turist " in the section is a person who is really  dependentfor  his living on tilling the soil and unable	to  maintainhimself	 otherwise.   Main, chief, or principal	 sources  ofincome are not, in our view, the proper tests.	A man's mainsource of income may be from tilling the soil but his  othersource	or sources of income may be more than sufficient  tomaintain him.  The fact that a man's income from tilling thesoil  may  be larger than his income from his  ownership  ofland  or other sources does not seem to us to make him an  "agriculturist"	within the meaning of the section.   At	 thesame time we see no reason for depriving an "  agriculturist"  of  the exemption under the section because he  may	haveinvested money in a business or businesses as alleged in thepresent case and may(1) (1946) 49 B.L.R.867.(2) I.L.R. [1937] Mad. 777.172derive	some income therefrom or do coolie work and  add  tohis  earnings  in  bad times.  The test of  sole  source  ofincome	if applied would deprive him of the benefit  of	 thesection	 and we prefer the tests which we have already	laiddown,  viz.,  that he must be a tiller of  the	Boil  reallydependent  for his living on tilling the soil and unable  tomaintain  himself otherwise." in the case of Tirloki  Prasadv.  Kunj Behari Lal (1) the Allahabad High Court  held	thatthe  test to be applied in deciding whether a person  is  anagriculturist  is  whether  his main  source  of  income  isderived	 from  cultivation or not.  In the  case  of  DwarkaPrasad	v. Municipal Board, Meerut (2) the same	 High  Courtheld  that there was no reason for holding that cl.  (b)  ofthe  proviso  to s. 60(1) applied only to the case  of	verysmall farmers and not to the case of large farmers.   Clause(b) aimed at protecting the implements of every farmer so asto enable him to continue to earn his livelihood in the sameway  as he had been doing previously.  There was nothing  toindicate  that the clause was limited to small farmers.	  Inthe case of Gowardhandas v. Mohanlal (3) the conclusions  ofthe Nagpur High Court were:"(i)  Whether a person is an agriculturist or not is  not  aquestion  turning  on  source of income	 but  on  nature  ofoccupation.(ii) A person may have many occupations.  If one of them  isagriculture  and  for that purpose a house  or	building  isoccupied, protection can be claimed.(iii)	  A  person  who  owns land and	 lets  it  reservingeither	money  or  produce is not  an  agriculturist  but  alandlord.(iv) A person who cultivates the land as a labourer,  thoughneither a landowner nor a tenant, is an agriculturist.(v)  If	 a man cultivates the land with his own hands or  bymeans  of  labourers whose activities he directs  he  is  anagriculturist  whether	he operates on a large	or  a  smallscale.	If he has no connection with(1) A.I.R. 1935 All. 448.	(2) A.I.R. 1958 All. 561.		(3) I.L.R. [1938] Nag. 461.173the land except that he owns it and people work for him,  hemay   or   may	not  be	 an   agriculturist   according	  tocircumstances."In  the case of Nihal Singh v. Siri Ram (1) the Lahore	HighCourt held that the word "agriculturist " means a person whopersonally engages in the occupation of tilling the soil andderives	 his livelihood from that occupation and cannot	 (ordoes not) maintain himself from other sources.	On the factsof  the case that Court held that a man who merely  receivedrent  from tenants or the income of the produce	 derived  bythe employment of servants or partners could not be said  todepend for his livelihood upon the proceeds derived from  soengaging himself in the tillage of the soil.  In the case ofAnantalal  v. Bibhuti (2) the Patna High Court held that  anagriculturist was one who tilled the soil and thereby earnedhis  livelihood	 and  was expected  to	have  implements  ofhusbandry,  cattle and seed-grain.  This, however,  did	 notmean  that he must till the land with his own hands or	thathe  must necessarily have his own implements  of  husbandry.In any event, cultivation must be his main source of  incomethough	this  would  not be the	 sole  test.   The  questionwhether	 a person was an agriculturist or not would have  tobe  decided with reference to the facts of  each  particularcase.In  the	 present case the evidence of  the  appellant's	 ownwitness,  Balaji, shows that Tuljaramarao had reserved	somelands  for a home farm about 8 years before his death.	 Thearea  reserved	was about 35 acres and	that  he  maintainedabout 12 bullocks and 8 servants.  He was getting an  incomeof  Rs.	 20,000 to Rs. 25,000 a year from these	 lands.	  Heused to keep his cattle in the Wada where his servants	alsostayed and his agricultural implements were kept.  The	pro-duce of the lands was also stored in the Wada.	Tuljaramaraoused  to  supervise  the  agricultural	operations  and	 hisservants.   After  his	death his  son	appellant  Appasahebbecame	the owner.  Appasaheb increased the acreage  of	 thecultivation  of the home farm to about 60 acres.  He has  14bullocks and 10(1) (1939) I.L.R. 21 Lah.23.(2) (1944) I.L.R. 23 Pat. 348.174or 12 servants and the income is Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 35,000  ayear.  The cattle and the produce are kept in the Wada wherehe  also  resides.   This  witness  also  stated  that	 theappellant Appasaheb had inams in 4 villages. Furthermore, in10 or 12 villages he owns lands	   and	he  gets  about	 Rs.35,000 to Rs. 40,000 from his lands.  The said Appasabeb andhis  brother sometimes worked personally in the fields.	  Itis clear, from this evidence, that Appasaheb is by no  meansentirely  dependent for his livelihood upon the income	fromthe  home farm.	 Apart from the income of the home  farm  hehas  a	substantial  income from other lands  and  there  isnothing	 to  show that this income derived  from  his  otherlands is the result of cultivation by him.It was contended on behalf of the appellants that the BombayHigh  Court  had  taken	 an extreme  view  in  the  case  ofHanmantrao Annarao v. Dhruvaraj Pandurangrao (1).   Reliancewas  placed on the decision of the Allahabad High  Court  inDwarka	Prasad v. Meerut Municipality (2) where it was	heldthat a tractor was an implement of husbandry and it was	 notsubject	 to attachment although it was used for	 cultivatingan  area of about 1,200 bighas of a farm.  The decisions  ofthe Madras High Court in the case of Parvataneni  Lakshmayyav.  The Official Receiver of Kistna (3), of the Lahore	HighCourt in the case of Nihar Singh v. Siri Ram and Others	 (4)and of the Nagpur High Court in the case of Gowardhandas  v.Mohanlal  (5)  were  also  relied  upon	 on  behalf  of	 theappellants  in order to show that to be an  agriculturist  aperson	did  not have to personally cultivate the  land	 andthat  it was immaterial whether the area cultivated  or	 theincome derived therefrom was large or small.  The real	testwas, was the cultivation his main source of livelihood ?  Itwas  submitted, on the facts of the present case,  that	 theappellant  Appasaheb  depended	for his	 livelihood  on	 theincome derived from the land cultivated by him and that	 theWada(1)  (1946) 49 B.L.R. 867.(2)  A.I.R. 1958 All. 561(3)  I.L.R. [1937] Mad. 777.(4)  (1939) I.L.R. 21 Lah. 23.(5) I.L.R. [1938] Nag. 461.175on the land was occupied by him as an agriculturist for	 thepurpose	 of  his cultivation.  Such being the  position	 theWada  was  occupied  by	 him as	 an  agriculturist  and	 wastherefore  exempted  from attachment under cl.	(c)  of	 theproviso to s. 60(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure.Sub-section  (1)  of s. 60 of the Code	of  Civil  Proceduremakes	all  saleable  property,  movable   and	  immovable,belonging  to  the judgment debtor and over which he  has  adisposing  power liable to attachment and sale in  executionof  a  decree against him.  In this  subjection	 unless	 theterms  of  the proviso came to the rescue  of  the  judgmentdebtor,	 all lands and houses or other buildings, goods	 andmoney,	amongst	 other	things, belonging to  him  would  beliable to be attached.	The Legislature, however, recognizedthat it would not be expedient to leave the matter at  that.Hence  the  proviso.   The  relevant  clauses  in  order  todetermine what the word " agriculturist " means are  clauses(b)  and (c) of the proviso.  Under cl. (b) the tools of  anartisan	 are  exempted from attachment.	  According  to	 theShorter Oxford English Dictionary the word " artisan " meansa  mechanic, handicraftsman or an artificer.  The object  ofthe  Legislature  in exempting from attachment tools  of  anartisan	 was  obviously to leave him his tools in  order  toenable him to make a living.  Without his tools the  artisanwould  be  destitute,  a  situation  which  the	 Legislatureintended to avoid.  In the case of a judgment debtor who wasan   agriculturist,  the  Legislature  intended	  that	 hisimplements  of husbandry and such cattle and seed-grain	 as,in the opinion of the court, were necessary to enable him toearn  his livelihood as an agriculturist should be  exemptedfrom   attachment.   Here  again,  the	intention   of	 theLegislature  was to leave in the hands of  an  agriculturistsufficient means whereby he could earn his livelihood as  anagriculturist.	 According to Shorter Oxford Dictionary	 oneof the meanings of the word " husbandry " is the business ofhusbandry, that is to say, a person who tills and cultivatesthe  soil or a farmer.	The same dictionary states that	 oneof the meanings of the word176" livelihood " is means of living maintenance.	It can	alsomean   income,	revenue,  stipend.   In	 the  case   of	  anagriculturist  his  implements of husbandry  must  thereforemean  implements  with which he tills the soil.	  These	 aresaved from attachment.	So far as his cattle and  seed-grainare  concerned,	 only that much is exempted  which,  in	 theopinion	 of the court, would be necessary to enable  him  toearn  his  livelihood  and  by	which  he  could  earn	 hismaintenance.   It  is to be noticed that under cl.  (b)	 theland  which  an	 agriculturist tills is	 not  exempted	fromattachment.   The  agricultural	 produce  of  the  land	  isexempted  to the extent as notified in the Official  Gazetteissued	under s. 61 of the Code.  On a fair reading  of	 theprovisions   of	 cl.  (b),  that  which	 is  saved   to	  anagriculturist  are  his implements with which he  tills	 thesoil and such cattle and seed-grain which, in the opinion ofthe  court, are necessary for him to use in order to  enablehim  to maintain himself.  The provisions of cl. (b) in	 thecase  of an agriculturist, therefore, suggest a	 person	 whotills the soil in order to maintain himself.Under cl. (c) houses and other buildings (with the materialsand  the sites thereof and the land immediately	 appurtenantthereto	 and necessary for their enjoyment) belonging to  anagriculturist	and  occupied  by  him	are  exempted	fromattachment.  The word " agriculturist " in this clause	mustcarry the same meaning as the word " agriculturist " in	 cl.(b)  and  the house must be occupied by him  as	 such.	 Theobject	of  the exemption in el. (c) apparently is  that  anagriculturist  should  not be left without a roof  over	 hishead.  In other words, the Legislature intended by cls.	 (b)and  (c) to prevent an agriculturist becoming destitute	 andhomeless.   It	was,  however,	argued	on  behalf  of	 theappellants  that there are no restrictive words in cl.	(c).So long as it was a house belonging to an agriculturist	 andoccupied  by him, it was exempted from attachment no  matterwhat  other income than agriculture was earned by him.	 TheWada in question was clearly occupied by the appellants	 forthe  purpose  of tilling the land of the home farm  and	 forstoring the produce thereof, the implements of177husbandry  and tethering of cattle employed  in	 cultivatingthe  land.   It	 seems	to  us,	 on  the  evidence  of	 theappellants'  own witness, that they do not  themselves	tillthe land of the home farm which is done by a large number oflabourers  employed by them.' Tuljaramarao did	not  himselfcultivate  the	land.	He merely  supervised  the  work  ofcultivation  by	 the labourers.	 The witness,  however,	 didstate  that  sometimes	Appasaheb  and	his  brother  workedpersonally  in the fields.  This is a vague statement  whichdoes not necessarily mean that they did any act of  cultiva-tion  themselves.  The Wada in question is a  big  structurewhere	the   appellants  reside  but  if   they   are	 notagriculturists within the meaning of that word in S. 60, theWada  cannot  be exempted from attachment.  It seems  to  usthat even if it is not necessary that a person must till theland  with his own hands to come within the meaning  of	 theword  "	 agriculturist " he must at least show that  he	 wasreally dependent for his living on tilling the soil and	 wasunable	to maintain himself otherwise.	In the present	caseit  is	quite  obvious that even if the	 appellants  can  bedescribed  as  agriculturists in the widest  sense  of	thatterm,  they are not agriculturists who are really  dependentfor their maintenance on tilling the soil and that they	 areunable to maintain themselves otherwise.  The evidence showsthat Tuljaramarao was getting an income of nearly 20,000  to25,000	rupees	from lands cultivated in the home  farm	 andthat  the  appellant Appasaheb by extending the	 acreage  ofthat  farm  was	 receiving an income of Rs.  30,000  to	 Rs.35,000.	 In addition he had lands in 10 or 12 other villagesand his income from the lands was Rs. 35,000 to Rs.  40,000.Assuming  that	these figures include the  income  from	 thelands of the home farm, they would show that in addition  tothat  income  he had an additional income of  at  least	 Rs.5,000 from lands in villages other than Nandi.	Furthermore,the appellant Appasaheb is receiving a cash allowance of Rs.700 to Rs. 800 per annum and Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000 from thevillage,  officers  of	the four inam  villages.   In  thesecircumstances, it can hardly be said that the appellant23178Appasaheb  is  really  dependent  for  his  maintenance	  bytilling	 the  soil  and unable to  maintain  himself  other.Wise.  From this point of view it seems to us that he cannotbe  regarded as an agriculturist within the meaning of	thatword in s. 60 of the Code.In our opinion, the decision of the High Court that the Wadain  question  was  not Watan property and that	it  was	 notexempted  from attachment by virtue of the provisions of  s.60(1)  of  the Code is correct.	 The appeal  is	 accordinglydismissed with costs.SARKAP.	 J.-The appellants are the legal representatives  ofone Tuljaram Desai.  Tuljaram was the owner of certain watanproperties.   On his death, his son the appellant  Appasahebbecame entitled to them.  The other appellants are the widowand younger son of Tuljaram.Sometime  in 1943 one Vithalrao Thube obtained a decree	 forRs.  80,000  against Tuljaram.	By 1949	 both  Tuljaram	 andVithalrao  had	died.  The respondent is  the  successor  ininterest of Vithalrao.The  present  appeal arises out of the proceedings  for	 theexecution  of the decree started by the	 respondent  againstthe appellants.	 In this appeal we are concerned only with awada  (building)  belonging  to	 the  appellant	  Appasaheb,standing  on watan land which the respondent seeks  to	haveattached  and sold in execution.  It is not now	 in  disputethat watan properties are not saleable properties and cannottherefore  be  attached	 and sold in  execution.   The	wadastands	on  watan land and the respondent seeks	 to  proceedagainst the structure apart from the land.The appellant Appasaheb contends that he is an agriculturistand that wada belonging to and occupied by him is  protectedfrom attachment and sale by cl. (c) of the proviso to sub-s.(1)  of	 s.  60 of the Code of	Civil  Procedure.   He	alsocontends  that the wada itself is watan property and is	 notin view of sub-s. (1) of s. 60 liable to attachment and saleas it is not a saleable property. Now sub-s. (1) of s. 60 makes all saleable property ,liableto  attachment and sale in execution.  The proviso to it  sofar as material runs thus :"Provided that the following particulars shall not be liableto such attachment or sale, namely:--(b)  tools  of artisans and where the judgmentdebtor  is  anagriculturist,	his implements of husbandry and such  cattleand  seed-grain	 as  may, in the opinion  of  the  court  benecessary to enable him to earn hislivelihood as such...(c)  houses  and  other buildings (with	 materials  and	 thesites  thereof and land immediately appurtenant thereto	 andnecessary for their enjoyment) belonging to an agriculturistand occupied by him."I  propose now to consider the question whether the wada  issaved from execution under el. (c) of the proviso to  sub-s.(1)  of	 s.  60.  In order that the  clause  may  apply	 twoconditions have to be fulfilled.  First, the person claimingbenefit	 under it must be an agriculturist and secondly	 thewada must belong to and be occupied by him.First,	then, was the appellant Appasaheb  an  agriculturistwithin the meaning of the clause ? Now the plain meaning  ofthe  word  " agriculturist " in the present  context,  is  aperson	who  occupies  himself with  agriculture,  that	 is,cultivation  of	 land  for raising crops.   Anybody  who  isengaged	 in cultivating land for raising crops would  be  anagriculturist.	 So far there is no difficulty.	 It  appearshowever	 from  the reported decisions that the	High  Courtshave expressed sharply divergent opinions on the question asto who is an agriculturist within the meaning of the clause.The  difference	 however  is  not  on  the  point  that	  anagriculturist  must be one who cultivates but as to  whetherthe  agriculturist contemplated in cls. (b) and (c)  is	 onewho  cultivates with his own hands and whether	all  personswho  carry  on agricultural  operations	 are  agriculturistswithin	the  clauses.	These differences  have	 arisen	 notbecause	 any  difficulty was felt as to the meaning  of	 theword  "	 agriculturist	", but from  the  intention  of	 thelegislature to be gathered from the other words used in	 theclauses.  In this appeal these authorities have been  reliedon by the180parties	 as  it	 suited	 the  contention  of  each.   It  isnecessary therefore to consider the views expressed in thesecases and decide whether the word " agriculturist " is to begiven its plain meaning or has to be qualified in some	way.It  is of some significance to state that by and large,	 theview of one High Court has been discarded by another.One  view  is that an agriculturist is a person	 whose	mainsource	of livelihood is agriculture: see Tirloki Prasad  v.Kunj Behari Lal (1).  It is said that this is the right viewfor  an agriculturist must be one who is so  by	 profession.Now the main source of livelihood of a person may vary	fromtime to time: therefore at one period of time a person mightbe  ail	 agriculturist	but  not  at  another.	 It  is	 notreasonable  to hold that such a result was intended.   Againit  would  often be difficult to decide which  is  the	mainsource	of livelihood of a person.  Indeed it is  not  quiteclear  as  to  what is meant by main  source  of  livelihoodunless it means the livelihood producing the largest income.I find nothing in the clauses to warrant this view: they  donot  say  anything about agriculture being a  person's	mainsource	of  livelihood in any sense of the word	 "  main  ".Furthermore if this view is accepted, a rich farmer who	 hasincome from other sources, which income is smaller than	 hisincome from agriculture, would be protected by these clauseswhile a poor peasant who makes a slightly bigger income, sayas  a day labourer, than he does from agriculture, would  bedeprived  of the protection.  I am unable to accept  a	viewwhich produces such a result.  I find no reason why a personwho   has  a  profession  besides  agriculture,	 should	  beprotected  if  agriculture is his main	profession  and	 nototherwise,   particularly   when  what	 is   protected	  isagricultural  implements, cattle, seed-grain and house	usedfor agricultural purposes.Another	 view  taken is that the agriculturist must  be	 onewhose  sole means of livelihood is cultivation of  land	 butexcluding  persons  carrying  on farming  in  a	 large	way:Muthuvenkatarama Reddiar v. The Official181Receiver  of South Arcot (1).  This view has been  discardedin  a  later full bench decision of the same High  Court  inParvataneni  Lakshmayya v. The Official Receiver  of  Kistna(2)  to which reference will be made later.  For  myself,  Ifind nothing in the clauses to justify this view.  Take	 thecase  of  a  small  cultivator who,  in	 order	to  maintainhimself,  takes	 up the other work and	so  supplements	 hisincome.	  There is nothing in the clauses to  indicate	thatsuch a cultivator should be deprived of the protection.	  Itis  well known that agricultural operations do not occupy  aperson for the whole year and as the income from agricultureis for quite a large number not enough to meet their  needs,many small cultivators have to supplement their in. come  byother  work when they are not engaged in the fields.   Thereis  nothing  in the clauses to lead to the view	 that  thesepersons	 were not intended to get the protection.  It  seemsto  me	manifest that there is no reason  to  deprive  thesepersons of the benefit of the protection.  Neither do I findany  words  in	the clauses to support	the  view  that	 bigfarmers are not intended to get the protection.	 This aspectof  the	 matter will be discussed further later.   The	viewtaken  in  Muthuvenkatarama  Reddiar's	case  (1)  does	 nottherefore appear to me to be well founded.In  Nihal Singh v. Siri Ram (3 ) a full bench of the  LahoreHigh  Court  held  that an agriculturist  must	be  one	 whopersonally  tills  and	not through servants  and  does	 notmaintain  himself from other sources of income.	 The  reasongiven  to  support this view appears to be as  follows:	 Theword agriculturist must mean the same thing in cls. (b)	 and(c).   In  cl.	(b) it is in  juxtaposition  with  the	wordartisan.   An  artisan	is  one	 who  himself  practices   ahandicraft  and furthermore he must practice the  handicraftnot  as	 a  hobby  but	as a  living.	So  in	cl.  (b)  anagriculturist  must  be	 one who personally  tills  and	 notthrough servants and maintains himself by agriculture alone.I  am  not  convinced  by  this	 reasoning.   If  the	wordagriculturist means one who must till with his own(1) (1925) I.L.R. 49 Mad. 227.	(2) I.L.R. [1937] Mad. 777.(3) (1939) I.L.R. 21 Lah. 23.182hands,	then  it  is  wholly  unnecessary  to  rely  on	 thejuxtaposition of the words artisan and agriculturist in	 cl.(b)  for reaching the conclusion that the Lahore High  Courtdid.  It is only if the word " agriculturist " as ordinarilyunderstood   includes  one  who	 carries   on	agriculturaloperations  through persons employed by him that it  becomesnecessary   to	 rely  on  the	reasoning   based   on	 thejuxtaposition  of  the two words in the clause.	  But  I  amwholly	unable	to appreciate the logic of  this  reasoning.Assume	that an artisan must be one who works with  his	 ownhands.	It does not follow that an agriculturist if it	doesnot mean exclusively one who tills with his own hands,	mustbe  one who tills only with his own hands when that word  isused   in  juxtaposition  with	the  word   artisan.	Suchjuxtaposition would afford no reason for departing from	 thenormal meaning of the word agriculturist.In  Hanmantrao	v.  Dhruvraj (1) also it was  said  that  anagriculturist  within the meaning of the clauses is one	 whotills  with  his own hands.  The reason there  put  is	thatsince  in  el.	(b)  reference	is  made  to  implements  ofhusbandry,  cattle  and seed-grain necessary for  earning  alivelihood  as a cultivator, therefore primafacie,  only  anagriculturist  who cultivates with his own hands  is  meant.Again  I am unable to follow the reasoning for a person	 wholives  on cultivation carried on by hired labour would	alsorequire implements of husbandry, cattle and seed-grain.An  agriculturist,  as I have said, is one  who	 carries  oncultivation.   Now one may carry on cultivation	 himself  orthrough	 hired labour.	In the latter case also he would  bean  agriculturist  within the plain meaning  of	 that  word.Then  it seems to me that if we exclude from the  clause  anagriculturist  who does not till with his own hands, a	mostunreasonable  situation would ensue.  Old and  incapacitatedsmall  farmers	and most women would have to be	 denied	 theprotection  of the clauses.  Again, it may so happen that  aperson	carrying on agricultural operations himself  becomesunable	to do so through ill health for two or	three  yearswhen he gets the cultivation done(1) I.L.R. [1947] Bom. 687.183by employing labour and resumes cultivation when he  regainshis  health.  If the view now under discussion	is  correct,then such a person would cease to be an agriculturist duringthe period of ill health though before and after that periodhe  would be an agriculturist.	It does not seem to me	thatsuch results could have been intended.I  come now to the view taken in Parvataneni  Lakshmayya  v.The Official Receiver of Kistna (1) earlier referred to.  Itwas there said, "We think that, having regard to the  schemeof the section exempting from attachment, as it does,  toolsof  artisans,  and,  where  the	 judgment-debtor  is  an   "agriculturist ", his implements of husbandry and such cattleand  seedgrain as may in the opinion of the court be  neces-sary to enable him to earn his livelihood and his houses andother  buildings occupied by him, protection is intended  tobe given to those who are real tillers of the land, and thatan  "  agriculturist  " in the section is a  person  who  isreally	dependent  for his living on tilling  the  soil	 andunable to maintain him otherwise."I  am unable to agree with this view.  It leads	 to  obviousanomalies.   Take the case of a person whose sole  means  ofliving is agriculture.	Suppose he carries on agriculture ona  large scale and makes a big income out of it.   He  wouldstill be dependent on agriculture for his living and  unableto maintain himself otherwise.	He would be an agriculturistfor  the  purpose  of  the clauses  within  the	 meaning  ofParvataneni's  case (1), for that case does not say  that  alarge  scale farmer is not an agriculturist.  Such a  personwould  be  entitled  to protection under  the  clauses	eventhough	his  income from agriculture is, say  Rs.  25,000  ayear.  Now take the case of a small farmer whose income fromagriculture is Rs. 1,000 a year but who also makes Rs. 1,500from other sources and is able to maintain himself from	 thelatter	income.	 According to Parvataneni's case (1) such  aperson would not be an agriculturist for the purpose of	 theclauses	 and would not be entitled to any  protection  underthem.  I find(1)  I.L.R. [1937] Mad. 777.184it impossible that the legislature could have intended	sucha result.Then  again  I find nothing in the language of	the  clausesclearly leading to the view accepted in Parvataneni's  'case(1)  however.  The only reference to a living is in cl.	 (b)and  it is to be found in the words " such cattle and  seed-grain  as may...... be necessary to enable him to  earn	 hisliving	as such ", that is, as an agriculturist.  I  do	 notthink  that  these  words lead to the  conclusion  that	 theagriculturist  contemplated  must depend for his  living  onagriculture.   They are intended to define the limit of	 theprotection  which  an agriculturist is entitled to  for	 hiscattle and seed-grain.	These words must therefore mean suchcattle and seed-grain as are necessary for the agriculturistto earn his livelihood from agriculture if that was his solemeans  of livelihood.  If that were not so we would have  tohold   that  this  part	 of  the  clause   contemplated	  anagriculturist whose livelihood depended on agriculture aloneand  who had no other source of income.	 Obviously  where  aperson	earned his livelihood from agriculture	and  anothersource,	 it could not be decided what cattle and  seed-grainhe would require to earn his living as an agriculturist	 forthe  simple  reason that he did not earn his  living  as  anagriculturist  only. Parvataneni's case (1) however  acceptsthe  view that a person may be an agriculturist	 within	 themeaning	  of  the  clauses  though  he	may   have   besidesagriculture  another source of income.	And with that  view,for the reasons earlier stated, I entirely agree.There  seems  to me to be other reasons also  why  the	viewtaken in Parvataneni's case (1) is not the correct one.	  Sofar  as the tools of an artisan are concerned, cl. (b)	doesnot limit the protection to such of them as are necessary toenable	him  to earn his living as an  artisan.	  Therefore,there is no reason to think that an artisan is one who	mustbe  dependent for his living on the handicraft practised  byhim.	Likewise   all	implements  of	 husbandry   of	  anagriculturist are exempt from attachment and sale.  The word" such " occurring before the words I cattle and  seed-grainin cl. (b)(1)  I.L.R. [1937] Mad. 777.185shows that these are protected only to the extent  indicatedand that there is no limit to the protection afforded to theimplements of husbandry of an agriculturist.  If this is thecorrect	 reading  of the clause, as I think it is,  then  itseems  to me impossible to say that an	agriculturist  whoseimplements of husbandry are intended to be protected must beone  who could not maintain himself apart from	agriculture.Likewise,  there is nothing in cl. (c) to indicate that	 theagriculturist  there mentioned must be one who	depends	 forhis living on agriculture:There remains one other view to consider.  It has been	saidthat  the  agriculturist  must	be  a  very  small   farmer;Muthuvenkatarama  Reddiar v. The Official Receiver of  SouthArcot  (1).   For this qualification  for  an  agriculturistagain,	I find no warrant in the clauses or indeed  anywhereelse in s. 60.	The various clauses in the proviso to s. 60,sub-sec.  (1) exempting diverse things from  attachment	 andsale   are  no	doubt  based  on  public  policy,  but	 theconsideration of public policy in each case appears to me tobe different.  I find it impossible to say that the  centralidea  was to protect the poor or to prevent a  person  beingleft destitute.	 Thus el. (a) protects the necessary wearingapparel,  cooking vessels beds and bedding of the  judgment.debtor.	  Even	a very rich judgment debtor is	entitled  toprotection under this clause.  Clause (d) protects books  ofaccount.   Here	 again it is not a poor man  alone  that  iscontemplated nor would deprivation of books of account leaveone  destitute in all cases.  Clause (g) protects  politicalpensions which may be and often are of substantial  amounts.Clause	 (h)  protects	wages  of  labourers  and   domesticservants.   This clause of course deals with a poor man	 andis  intended  to relieve against  poverty.   Since  however,there  is no one specific central idea running	through	 allthe  clauses,  each clause has to be  construed	 by  itself.Coming then to cls. (b) and (c), I find no justification forthe  view  that	 they  deal only with  poor  people  or	 areintended to protect against destitution.  Thus there(1)  (1925) I.L.R. 49 Mad. 227.24186is  nothing  in el. (b) to indicate that the tools  of	onlypoor  artisans are to be protected.  The same thing  can  besaid  of  an agriculturist.  The fact that  his	 cattle	 andseed-grain  are protected to the extent necessary to  enablehim to earn his livelihood does not lead to the view that hemust  be a poor agriculturist.	On the contrary, the  clausecontemplates an agriculturist who has more cattle and  seed-grain  than  he	 needs	for  his  livelihood.	It   clearlycontemplates a rich and large scale agriculturist.Therefore  it  seems  to me that there	is  no	warrant	 forimposing any qualification on the plain meaning of the	wordI  agriculturist'  in  cls. (b) and (c).   In  my  view,  anagriculturist contemplated by the clauses is any person	 whooccupies  himself with agriculture.  This is the view  takenin  Gowardhandas  v. Mohan Lal (1) and with it I  agree.   Aperson	occupying  himself  with  agriculture  would  be  anagriculturist  though  he does not cultivate  with  his	 ownhands and carries on agriculture in a very large scale.	  Hewould still be an agriculturist though he has other means oflivelihood besides agriculture.I  come now to the facts of this case.	The question is,  isAppasaheb  such an agriculturist as I have indicated  ?	 Theevidence  clearly shows that he is.  It can be said to	havebeen  established  beyond doubt and not	 questioned  in	 theCourts	below, that Appasaheb was carrying  on	agriculturaloperations under his supervision through labour employed  byhim  and with his own cattle and agricultural implements  onfifty to sixty acres of land.  The evidence also establishesthat Appasaheb's income from agriculture came to Rs.  30,000to  Rs. 35,000 per year.  It appears that he was in  receiptof cash allowances of Rs. 700 to Rs. 800 per year in respectof  the	 watan	and Rs. 4,000 to Rs.  5,000  per  year	fromvillage officers of the watan villages, neither of which wasincome	from  agriculture.   These facts  in  my  view	makeAppasaheb  an agriculturist for the purpose of cls. (b)	 and(c)  though  it	 may be that he was not	 dependent  for	 hisliving upon agriculture and was a large scale farmer who didnot187till with his own hands.  I wish however to state that thereis  uncontradicted testimony that Appasaheb personally	tookpart in the agricultural operations.Now  cl.  (c) protects from attachment and sale	 houses	 andother buildings with the sites thereof and land	 immediatelyappurtenant  thereto  and  necessary  for  their  enjoyment,belonging to an agriculturist and occupied by him.  I  thinkit is a fair reading of this clause to say that the  houses,buildings  and lands must be occupied by  the  agriculturistfor  the  purpose  of agriculture for the  object  of  theseclauses	 is  to protect an agriculturist only so far  as  isnecessary   for	  his  agricultural   operations.    If	  anagriculturist  occupied	 a house, say as a  holiday  resort,there  would  be  no  reason  to  protect  that	 house	fromattachment and sale.The question then arises whether Appasaheb occupied the wadafor  the purposes of his agricultural operations.   I  thinkthe  evidence makes it perfectly clear that he did  so.	  Itshows that the larger part of the wada was used for  storingcrops,	keeping	 agricultural implements, residence  of	 thefarm  servants	and tethering cattle used  for	agriculture.Appasaheb  and	his family lived in a part of the  wada	 butthat   also   was  clearly  occupation	 for   purposes	  ofagriculture,  for  it is from there that he  supervised	 theagricultural operations.I  have	 therefore come to the conclusion that the  wada  issaved  from attachment and sale in execution by cl.  (c)  ofthe  proviso  to sub-s. (1) of s. 60 of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure.The  other contention of the appellants does not seem to  meto  be	sustainable.  It is said that  the  maxim  accessioncredit	principali  applies and the wada standing  on  watanland has acquired the character of watan as an accession  toit.   It  is  not in dispute now that the wada	was  not  inexistence  when	 the watan was first created  but  had	beenbuilt subsequently by one of the watandars.  It is also saidthat the grant of the watan carried full right of  ownershipin the subject of the grant ; that the grantee had the rightto  make  such use of the land granted as any  owner  of  itcould have188done.	So  it	was  said that the  wada  had  been  put  uprightfully  by the watandar and became part of the watan  asan accession to it.There is no doubt that the wada was rightfully	constructed.It may be that it became on such construction a part of	 theland  on  which	 it  stands and	 assumed  the  character  ofimmovable  property.   But  I am unable	 to  agree  that  itthereupon   assumed  the  inalienable  character  of   watanproperty and was therefore hot liable to attachment and salein execution.  I do not think that the maxim accessio  ceditprincipali  applies in giving the wada put up on  watan	 thecharacter  of  a watan.	 Watan is a creation  by  governmentgrant.	 It  is	 inalienable  under  a	special	 Act.	 Theinalienable  character	attaches under the Act only  to	 theproperty granted by the government.  This peculiar charactercannot	be extended to other property by the application  ofthe  maxim.  Therefore it seems to me that the wada  is	 notinalienable though it stands on land which is inalienable asa  government grant under a special Act.  I would  for	thisreason reject this contention of the appellant.As however in my view, the wada is protected from attachmentand sale in execution under cl. (c) to the proviso to sub-s.(1)  of s. 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure, I would  allowthe appeal.BY  COURT: In view of the majority Judgment, the  appeal  isdismissed with costs.					Appeal dismissed.189