PETITIONER:KANTA PRASHAD	Vs.RESPONDENT:DELHI ADMINISTRATION(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:06/02/1958BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1958 AIR  350		  1958 SCR 1218ACT:Criminal Law--Gyant of	pardon--Power of the District  Magi-strate-Case  triable  by Court	of   Special-judge-court  ofSession-Concurrent jurisdiction to tender  Pardon-Preventionof  Corruption Act, 1947 (2 of 1947), S.  5(2)-Criminal	 Law(Amendment)  Act, 1952 (46 of 1952), Ss. 8(2)(3), 9-Code  ofCriminal Procedure (Act 5 of 1898), ss. 337, 338.HEADNOTE:The  appellants were convicted under s. 120B and S.  224/109of  the Indian Penal Code and s. 5(2) Of the  Prevention  ofCorruption  Act,  1947,	 by  the  Court	 of  Special   judgeconstituted under the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1952. itwas  contended for them that the conviction was bad  on	 theground	inter alia that the pardon tendered to the  approverby  the	 District  Magistrate under S. 337 of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure by virtue of which he was examined as  awitness by the Special judge was without1219jurisdiction.  The contention was that the provisions Of  s.337 were not applicable to the case, as the offence under s.5(2)  Of  the  Prevention  of  Corruption  Act,	 1947,	 waspunishable with imprisonment which may extend to ten  years,while  S.  337 Of the Code of Criminal Procedure  enabled  aDistrict  Magistrate to tender a pardon "in the case of	 anyoffence triable exclusively by the High Court or a Court  ofSession	 or any offence punishable with	 imprisonment  whichmay extend to ten years......... But under ss. 8(3) and 9 ofthe Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1952, for the purposes  ofthe  Code of Criminal Procedure, the Court of Special  judgeis deemed to be a Court of Session trying cases without jury:Held,  that although the offence was triable exclusively  bythe  Court  of Special judge, the  District  Magistrate	 hadauthority  to  tender a pardon under s. 337 of the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure, as the Court of Special judge  was,  inlaw, a Court of Session.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CriminalAppeals Nos. 202 and 203 of 1957.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedNovember 16, 1956, of the Punjab -High Court (Circuit Bench)at  Delhi in Criminal, Appeals Nos. 31-D and 506-C of  1956,arising out of the judgment and order dated August 31, 1956,of  the Court of the Special Judge at Delhi,  in  CorruptionCase No. 8 of 1956.D.   R. Kalia and K. L. Arora, for the appellant in CriminalAppeal No. 202 of 1957.D.   R. Kalia and Raghu Nath, for the appellant in  CriminalAppeal No. 203 of 1957.H.   J. Umrigar and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent in boththe appeals.1958.	February 6. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyIMAM  J.-The appellants, who were police constables  at	 thetime of the occurrence, were convicted by the Special  Judgeof  Delhi under s. 120B and s. 224/109 of the  Indian  PenalCode  and s. 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act (2  of1947).	  They	were  sentenced	 to  two   years'   rigorousimprisonment  under s. 5(2) of the Prevention of  CorruptionAct,  1947 and to nine months' rigorous	 imprisonment  undereach of the ss. 120B and 224/109 of the Indian Penal Code.1551220The   sentences	 of  imprisonment  were	 directed   to	 runconcurrently.	Their appeals to the Punjab High Court	weredismissed and the present appeals are by special leave.The  case of the prosecution, as stated in the	charge,	 wasthat  the appellants had conspired at Delhi with  Ram  SaranDas,  the  approver,  M. P. Khare, Nand	 Parkash  Kapur	 andMurari between the 6th and 16th of November, 1955, to  bringabout  the  escape from lawful custody of M.  P.  Khare,  anundertrial prisoner, and that they had also agreed to acceptRs.  1,000  each and other pecuniary advantages	 as  illegalgratification  for rendering the escape of M. P. Khare	fromlawful custody and that in pursuance of the said  conspiracythey had abetted the escape of M. P. Khare and that they hadaccepted the illegal gratification from Nand Parkash  Kapur.It is clear from the findings of the courts below that	M.P.Khare  escaped	from lawful custody and the  appellants	 hadenabled	 him  to do so and that they had received  money  asillegal	 gratification	for  the part  they  had  played  inenabling M.P. Khare to escape from lawful custody.The  learned Advocate for the appellants had submitted	fivepoints	for our consideration in support of  his  contentionthat the conviction of the appellants must be set aside	 (1)the  pardon  tendered to the approver Ram Saran Das  by	 theDistrict  Magistrate  of Delhi under s. 337 of the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure was without jurisdiction and  authority.Consequently,  the evidence of the approver was	 not  admis-sible  (2)  on the case of the prosecution, the	 offence  ofconspiracy  to commit an offence under s. 224 of the  IndianPenal  Code had not been committed but that offence,  if  atall,  was one under s. 222 of the Indian Penal Code.  As  anoffence	 under	s. 222 of the Indian Penal Code	 is  a	non-cognizable offence no conviction under s. 120B of the IndianPenal  Code could be had in the absence of a sanction  unders.  196A of the Code of Criminal Procedure  (3)	 Prosecutionwitnesses  Mela Ram, P.W. 6, and Shiv Parshad, P.W. 7,	wereaccomplices on their own showing and as such their testimonycould not be taken into consideration (4) no test1221identification	parade of the appellants had been  held	 (5)the charge, as framed, contravened the mandatory  provisionsof s. 233 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Points 3, 4 and 5 may be disposed of at the outset.  We haveexamined the evidence of Mela Ram and Shiv Parshad and	findnothing	  in  their  evidence  which  establishes  them	  asaccomplices.  It does not appear that before the High  Courtit had ever been urged that these witnesses were accomplicesand their evidence could not be taken into consideration  tocorroborate the approver.  It was, however, urged that thesewitnesses were unreliable because they had knowledge that anattempt	 would be made to enable M.P. Khare to	escape	fromlawful custody and yet they informed no authority about	 it.As  to the reliability of these witnesses the  courts  belowwere entitled to believe them and nothing of any consequencehas been placed before us to convince us to take a differentview from that taken by the courts below.As  for the test identification parade, it is true  that  notest  identification parade was held.  The  appellants	wereknown  to the police officials who had deposed	against	 theappellants and the only persons who did not know them beforewere the persons who gave evidence of association, to  whichthe High Court did not attach much importance.	It would  nodoubt have been prudent to hold a test identification paradewith  respect  to  witnesses who did not  know	the  accusedbefore	the  occurrence, but failure to hold such  a  paradewould  not make inadmissible the evidence of  identificationin court.  The weight to be attached to such  identificationwould  be a matter for the courts of fact and it is not	 forthis  Court  to	 reassess the  evidence	 unless	 exceptionalgrounds were established necessitating such a course.It  is true that no separate charges were framed  under	 ss.120B,  224/109 of the Indian Penal Code and s. 5(2)  of	 thePrevention of Corruption Act, 1947.  Separate charges shouldhave  been  framed  as required by s. 233  of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure.   In  our	opinion,  the	irregularitycommitted, in this case, was1222cured by the provisions of s. 537 of the Code.	It is to  benoticed	 that  it was urged before the	Special	 Judge	thatseparate  charges should have been framed and that a  singlecharge	should	not have been framed but the  objection	 hadbeen  abandoned	 by the Advocate for the  accused  when	 theSpecial	 Judge told him that if it was his  contention	thatthe accused had been prejudiced by this form of the  charge,he  would  frame separate charges under separate  heads	 andthen  proceed with the trial.  Furthermore, when the  chargewas  framed,  the public prosecutor had urged  that  chargesunder  separate heads for each offence should be framed	 andthat they should not be joined together under one head.	 TheAdvocate  for  the  accused, however,  had  urged  that	 thecharge,	 as framed, was correct.  It seems to us  that	whenthe charge was being framed the Advocate for the  appellantsdesired.  that	the charge as framed should  stand  and	 thepublic	prosecutor's  objection	 should	 be  overruled.	  Itcannot	be now urged that the appellants were prejudiced  bythe  charge  as	 framed.   Indeed,  the	 Advocate  for	 theappellants abandoned this objection and there is nothing  inthe  High Court's judgment to show that this contention	 wasagain raised.  We cannot permit such a question to be raisedat this stage.	It seems to us, therefore, that there is  nosubstance   in	the  submissions  made	on  behalf  of	 theappellants with reference to the above-mentioned points 3, 4and 5.With  reference to the second point, even if it	 is  assumedthat  the  offence alleged against the appellants  does	 notcome under s. 224 of the Indian Penal Code, but under s. 222of the Indian Penal Code, it has to be remembered that	thiswould  be  of  academic	 interest  in  this  case,  if	 theappellants have been rightly convicted under s. 5(2) of	 thePrevention of Corruption Act, 1947.  It also does not appearfrom  the judgments of the Special Judge and the High  Courtthat it had been contended that there was no sanction  unders.  196A of the Code of Criminal Procedure and	consequentlythe court could not take cognizance of the offence under  s.120B of the Indian Penal Code.	Whether a sanction had	beengranted under s. 196A1223was a question of fact which ought to have been urged at thetrial  and before the High Court.  It is impossible at	thisstage  to go into this question of fact.  Furthermore,	thisquestion also is one of academic interest if the  convictionand  sentence  of  the	appellants  under  s.  5(2)  of	 thePrevention of Corruption Act, 1947, are affirmed.Coming	now  to	 the  first point urged	 on  behalf  of	 theappellants, it would appear that the District Magistrate  ofDelhi granted a pardon under s. 337 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure to Ram Saran Das, the approver, in consequence  ofwhich Ram Saran Das was examined as a witness by the SpecialJudge.	It was urged that the District Magistrate could	 notgrant  a  pardon when the case was triable by the  Court  ofSpecial Judge constituted under the Criminal Law (Amendment)Act,  1952.  The offence under s. 5(2) of the Prevention  ofCorruption Act, 1947, is punishable with imprisonment for  aterm which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or	withboth.	It  was	 not an offence which  was  punishable	withimprisonment which may extend to ten years.  The  provisionsof  s. 337 enabled a District Magistrate to tender a  pardonin  the case of any offence triable exclusively by the	HighCourt or a Court of Session, or any offence punishable	withimprisonment  which may extend to ten years, or any  offencepunishable  under  s.  211 of the  Indian  Penal  Code	withimprisonment which may extend to seven years, or any offenceunder  ss. 216A, 369, 401, 435 and 477A of the Indian  PenalCode.	These  provisions  of s. 337 at the  time  that	 thepardon	was tendered were inapplicable as the  present	casewas  not covered by its terms.	It is pointed out  that	 theHigh  Court erred in supposing that the District  Magistratecould  grant  pardon  in  a  case  where  the  offence	 waspunishable with imprisonment which may extend to seven yearsor  more and which was triable exclusively by the  Court  ofSession.   The Code of Criminal Procedure at the  time	thatthe  pardon was granted spoke of an offence punishable	withimprisonment  for a term which may extend to ten  years	 andnot seven years.  The amendment to s. 337 of the1224Code,  which came into effect in January, 1956, spoke of  anoffence	 punishable  with imprisonment which may  extend  toseven years, but this amendment could have no application toa pardon tendered on 1-12-55.  It seems to us, however, thatthe  District  Magistrate had authority to tender  a  pardonunder  s.  337	of  the	 Code  of  Criminal  Procedure	withreference   to	 a  case  concerning  an   offence   triableexclusively by the Special Judge and, therefore, we need notconsider   whether   the   offence   was   punishable	withimprisonment which may extend to seven years.  Under s. 8(3)of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act of 1952 it is  expresslystated	that for the purposes of the provisions of the	Codeof  Criminal  Procedure, 1898, the Court  of  Special  Judgeshall  be  deemed  to be a Court  of  Session  trying  caseswithout	 a jury or without the aid of assessors.  Section  9of  that  Act provides for an appeal from the Court  of	 theSpecial	 Judge	to the High Court and states that  the	HighCourt  may exercise, as far as they may be  applicable,	 allthe powers conferred by Chapters XXXI and XXXII of the	Codeof Criminal Procedure, 1898, as if the Court of the  SpecialJudge  were a Court of Session trying cases without a  jury.It would seem, therefore, that although a Special Judge is acourt  constituted  under the Criminal Law  (Amendment)	 Actyet, for the purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure	 andthat Act, it is a Court of Session.  Accordingly, we are  ofthe   opinion	that  although	the  offence   was   triableexclusively  by the Court of the Special Judge the  DistrictMagistrate had authority to tender a pardon under s. 337  ofthe  Code of Criminal Procedure as the court of the  SpecialJudge was, in law, a Court of Session.It  was,  however, suggested that the  proper  authority  togrant the pardon was the Special Judge and not the  DistrictMagistrate,  but  it seems to us that the  position  of	 theSpecial Judge in this matter was similar to that of a  Judgeof a Court of Session.	The proviso to s. 337 of the Code ofCriminal  Procedure contemplates concurrent jurisdiction  inthe District Magistrate and the Magistrate making an enquiryor holding the trial to tender a pardon.  According to the1225provisions of s. 338 of the Code, even after commitment	 butbefore judgment is passed, the Court to which the commitmentis  made  may  tender  a  pardon  or  order  the  committingMagistrate  or the District Magistrate to tender  a  pardon.It  would seem, therefore, that the District  Magistrate  isempowered to tender a pardon even after a commitment if	 theCourt so directs.  Under s. 8(2) of the Criminal Law (Amend-ment)  Act,  1952, the Special Judge has also  been  grantedpower to tender pardon.	 The conferment of this power on theSpecial Judge in no way deprives the District Magistrate  ofhis  power to grant a pardon under s. 337 of the  Code.	  Atthe  date  the District Magistrate tendered the	 pardon	 thecase  was not before the Special Judge.	 There seems to	 us,therefore,  no	substance in the submission  made  that	 theDistrict Magistrate had not authority to tender a pardon  toRam Saran Das, the approver, and consequently the approver'sevidence was inadmissible.The findings of the High Court establish the offence of	 theappellants  under  s. 5(2) of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct,  1947,  and we can find no sufficient reason  to  thinkthat the appellants were wrongly convicted thereunder.The appeals are accordingly dismissed.Appeals dismissed.1226