PETITIONER:THE STATE OF KERALA AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COCHIN COAL COMPANY LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/10/1960BENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALABENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALADAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  408		  1961 SCR  (2) 219 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1966 SC 376	 (6) E	    1968 SC 389	 (3,8,9) RF	    1986 SC1760	 (22)ACT:Sales  Tax--Explanation Sales--Sale and delivery of coal  toSteamship--Whether in the course of export--Constitution  ofIndia,	Art.  286--United States of  Travancore	 and  CochinGeneral	 Sales	Tax  Act,  1125,  s.  6--Notification  datedFebruary 5, 1954.HEADNOTE:The respondent stocked 'bunker coal' at Candle Island in theState of Madras.  They sold the coal to steamers calling  atthe  port  of Cochin in the State of  Travancore-Cochin	 anddelivered  it there.  The respondent was assessed  to  salestax  on such sales for the year 1951-52 and 1952-53.  ,	 Therespondent  contended that no sales tax could be levied	 onthese  sales since they were either sales' in the course  ofexport'	 or in the course of inter-State trade	exempt	fromsales  tax under sub-cl. (1) (b) or cl. (2) of Art.  286  ofthe  Constitution  and	in the alternative  that  they	wereexempt from tax under a notification dated February 5, 1954,issued	by  the appellant State under  which  sales  failingwithin	the  Explanation to Art. 286(1)(a) made	 during	 theperiod 4-1-1951 to 31-3-1953 were exempted from liability topay tax.Held  that  the	 sales	were  exempt  from  tax	 under	 theGovernment  Notification.   The coal was  delivered  to	 theactual consumer, i. e., the steamships in  Travancore-Cochinand  they  were	 at liberty to	consume	 it  :wherever	theydesired,  either  within  the State or	outside	 the  choicedepending  on its convenience and necessity.   The  deliverywas  for  consumption within the State and  the	 sales	fellwithin the Explanation to Aft. 286(1)(a).Though	the  sales were in the course of  inter-State  tradewhich  were covered by the ban on taxation imposed  by	Art.286(2)	the levy was validated by the Sales  Tax  ValidationAct, 1956.M.   P.	 V. Sundararamier & Co. v. The State of Andhra	Pra-desh, [1958] S.C.R. 1422, relied on.The  sales were not made 'in the course of export  and	werenot covered by the ban imposed by Art. 286(1)(b).  For	Art.286(1)(b)  to  apply it was not sufficient  that  the  goodsmerely	moved  out  of the territory of India,	but  it	 wasfurther	 necessary that the goods should be intended  to  betransported  to a destination beyond India.  The concept  of'export' in Art. 286 postulated the existence of two terminibetween which the goods were intended to be transported.220Burmah Shell Oil Storage & Distributing Co. of India Ltd. v.The  Commercial	 Tax Officer, C.A. 751 of 957 & C.A.  10  of1958 (Unreported) followed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 287 of 1958.Appeal from the Judgment and Order dated the 10th September,1956,  of the former Travancore-Cochin in Original  PetitionNo. 191 of 1955.Sardar Bahadur, for the Appellants.K.   P. Abraham, P. George, and M.R. Krishna Pillai, for theRespondent.1960.  October 31.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyAYYANGAR J.-This is an appeal from the judgment of the	HighCourt  of  Travancore-Cochin  on a  certificate	 of  fitnessgranted	 by  it under Art. 133(1) of  the  Constitution	 andraises for consideration the liability of the respondent-TheCochin Coal Company Ltd.to sales-,tax under the United Stateof Travancore and Cochin General Sales Tax Act, 1125 (1950).The following are briefly the facts which it is necessary tostate  in order to appreciate the points in  controversy  inthe  appeal.   The Cochin Coal Company Ltd.  which  will  bereferred  to  as the respondent-Company are, as	 their	nameindicates,  dealers  in coal.  The commodity, the  sales  ofwhich have given rise to the dispute in this appeal is	whatis known as ' Bunker coal'.  The company have their  officesat a place called Fort Cochin which was formerly within	 theState  of Madras.  They import and keep stocks of  "  bunkercoal " stacked at a place called Candle Island which at	 thedate relevant to these proceedings was also within the Stateof Madras.  Part of the activities of the respondent-companyconsist	 in the supply of " bunker coal " from their  depotsin Candle Island to steamers arriving in or calling at,	 theport  of Cochin (in the State of Travancore-Cochin) for	 theoutward	 voyage	 of the steamers from the  said	 port.	 Theusual  procedure by which bunker coal was thus	supplied  bythe respondent company was briefly221this:	Before	the  arrival of the  steamers,	the  steameragents	would  enter  into  contracts  with  the  respondentcompany	 for trimming coal into the bunker of  the  steamer.As  soon as a steamer arrived in Cochin port,  the  steamer-agents would inform the respondent-company and these  agentsafter securing the necessary papers from the customs and theport  authorities  for	the loading of	the  coal  into	 thesteamer, would take these papers to the respondent-company'soffice	in  Fort Cochin for enabling the latter	 to  performtheir  part of the contract.  The  respondent-company  wouldthereupon  send	 the goods ordered to  the  steamer  throughtheir transport contractor.  Delivery orders would be issuedto  the transport contractor on the strength of which  goodswould  be released from their stock in Candle Island.	Coalwould  then be taken to the steamer berthed in the  port  inTravancore-Cochin  State waters.  The Chief Engineer of	 thesteamer would inspect the coal and when the same was to	 hissatisfaction  as  regards quality, the coal  would  be	per-mitted	to  be trimmed into the bunkers of the	ships.	 Theprice	of  the	 coal  would  thereafter  be  paid  to	 therespondent-company on bills drawn on the steamer-agent.	 Theabove being the nature of the transactions conducted by	 therespondent-company,  sales-tax was claimed on the  sales  ofbunker coal by the Travancore-Cochin State.  The  assessmentyears  with which this appeal is concerned are	1951-52	 and1952-53,  and  the  assessment therefore  was  completed  onFebruary  2,  1954,  by	 the  sales-tax	 officer,    Circle,Mattancherry.	The respondent-company's contention that  nosales-tax could be levied on the value of the " bunker	coal"  supplied,  since the sale was either " in the  course  ofexport	",  or " in the course of inter-State  trade  "	 andtherefore exempted from taxation by the State under  sub-cl.(1)(b)	or  (2) of Art. 286 was rejected  by  the  assessingofficer	 for  the  reason that the sales  in  question	fellwithin the Explanation to Art. 286 (1)(a) and were therefore"  inside  "  the  State  of  Travancore-Cochin,  since	 thedelivery  in  pursuance of the sale took  place	 within	 theState  and  the	 goods were delivered  for  the	 purpose  ofconsumption within222the State and that notwithstanding that there was an  inter-State element involved in the sale, by the goods being movedfrom Candle Island, the same did not affect the power of thedelivery  State	 to levy the tax.  The point  urged  by	 thecompany,  that	the same sales had been assessed to  tax  inMadras State as sales actually taking place there, was	alsorejected  as  irrelevant The  respondent-company  thereafterfiled an appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner	 whoallowed	 the  appeal of the company holding that  the  saleswere " in the course of export " within Art. 286(1)(b),	 andthat  even  if they were not such but were  ',inside"  salesfalling	 within	 the Explanation to Art.  286(1)(a)  of	 theConstitution,  still a notification by the State  Governmentdated  February	 5,  1954, exempting such  sales  from	tax,operated  for the benefit of the assessee.   Thereafter	 theDeputy	Commissioner  of sales-tax who	was  the  Revisionalauthority  took	 up  the matter suo motu,  called  upon	 theassessee to show cause why the appellate order should not beset  aside and the entire turnover assessed to sales-tax  asthe  sales  had taken place inside the	State  only.   Afterhearing	 the  assessee-company the order  of  the  appellateAssistant  Commissioner was set aside and that of the  SalesTax Officer restored.  The respondent-company then moved theHigh  Court of Travancore-Cochin under Arts. 226 and 227  ofthe Constitution to set aside the order in revision and	 thelearned Judges of the High Court ordered accordingly.  They,however,  granted  a certificate under Art.  133(1)  of	 theConstitution  to  enable  the State Government	to  file  anappeal	to  this  Court and that is how the  matter  is	 nowbefore us.Though	the  respondent-company	 appear	 to  have  presentedbefore	the High Court several lines of argument in  supportof  their  contention that they were entitled  to  exemptionfrom  sales-tax in respect of bunker coal " trimmed by	theminto  steamers	in  the	 waters	 of  Travancore-Cochin,	 thelearned	 Judges	 rested	 their decision	 in  favour  of	 therespondent-company  on practically a single  ground.   Theirreasoning  was	briefly	 as follows:  Following	 the  BengalImmunity case (1), the learned Judges held that, the bans(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.223imposed by cls. 1(a) and 2 of Art. 286 were independent	 andthat  the sale of the coal by the  respondent-company  whichwas  in the course of inter-State trade was covered  by	 theban   contained	  in  Art.  286(2)  of	 the,	Constitutionnotwithstanding that the sale might satisfy the terms of theExplanation   to  sub-cl.  1(a).   The	learned	  GovernmentPleader,  however, had submitted that if the  exemption	 wasderived,  from Art. 286(2), the, same would not	 assist	 theassessee,  since  the validity of the tax was saved  by	 theSales-tax Law Validation Act, 1956.  The learned Judges how-ever held that the validation Act could not avail the  Statebecause	 on their construction of s. 26 of  the	 Travancore-Cochin	General Sales Tax Act, 1125 (corresponding to s.  22of the Madras Sales Tax Act, 1939) no tax had been levied orwas leviable on sales in the course of inter-State trade  orcommerce  and that the Validation Act having validated	onlytaxes  already levied could not enable the State to  levy  atax which had not been imposed by the State's Sales-tax Act.There  is  no  doubt that the transaction  of  sale  in	 thepresent	 case  was in the course of  inter-State  trade	 andwould  be  covered by the ban on taxation  imposed  by	Art.286(2).	  But  the view of the learned Judges  of  the	HighCourt regarding the construction of s. 26 of the Travancore-Cochin	General	 Sales	Tax  Act must  now  be	held  to  beincorrect in view of the decision of this Court in M. P.  V.Sundararamier & Co. v. The State of Andhra Pradesh (1).	  Iftherefore  the	assessee-company  could rely  only  on	Art.286(2)	for  claiming  relief, it must be  held	 to  be	 notavailable to them since the Sales Tax Validation Act,  1956,would havevalidated the levy.Before	us,  however, learned Counsel  for  the	 respondent-company urged two grounds to sustain the decree of the	HighCourt in its favour., The first was that as the coal trimmedinto  the steam-ships were. meant to be carried outside	 theterritory of India, the sale was " in the course of export "within Art. 286 (1)(b) of the Constitution and was thereforeexempt	from  the  levy of sales-tax  by  the  State.	Thiscontention  however  has  to  be rejected  in  view  of	 thedecision(1) (1958) S.C.R. 1422.224of  this  Court in Burmah Shell Oil Storage  &	DistributingCo.,  of  India, Ltd. v. The Commercial Tax Officer  (1)  inwhich  it was held that in the context and setting in  whichthe  expression " export out of the   territory of  India  "occurs	in  Part  XIII	of  the	 Constitution,	it  was	 notsufficient   that  goods  were	merely	moved  out  of	 theterritory'  of India but that it was further necessary	thatthe  goods  should  be	intended  to  be  transported  to  adestination beyond India, so that they were in the course of"  import  "  into some other  locality	 outside  India	 andaccordingly  that  aviation spirit sold to an  aircraft	 forenabling  it to fly out of the country was not " exported  "out  of	 the  country.	The reason was	that  there  was  nodestination  at which it could be said that the	 spirit	 wasimported  and that a mere movement of the goods out  of	 thecountry following a sale would not render the sale one "  inthe  course  of	 export	 " within Art.	286  (1)(b)  of	 theConstitution.  In other words, the concept of export in Art.286 postulates just as the word import, the existence of twotermini	 as  those between which the goods are	intended  tomove  or between which they are intended to be	transported,and not a mere movement of goods out of the country  withoutany intention of their being landed in specie in some  fore-ign port.The  other point urged by learned Counsel was that,  in	 anyevent,	the  sale  fell	 within	 the  Explanation  to	Art.286(1)(a) inasmuch as the delivery of the coal was  effectedin  the	 State	of  Travancore-Cochin  for  the	 purpose  ofconsumption in that State.  There is no doubt that the goodshaving	originally been located in Candle Island  in  MadrasState were moved out of that State by reason of the contractof  sale  into the territory of Travancore-Cochin.   It	 hadtherefore   an	 interState  element  which   rendered	 theExplanation   applicable.   The	 delivery   was	  admittedlyeffected  in  the  State of Travanoore-Cochin  as  a  directresult of that sale and was trimmed into the steam-ships  inthe Cochin waters.  If the purpose of the delivery was(1)  C.A. 751 of 1957 & C.A. 10 of 1958 (Unreported).			    225not  export as we have held earlier, it must follow that  inthe  circumstances  of this case it was for the	 purpose  ofconsumption  in	 the  State since the delivery	was  to	 theultimate  consumer  who	 was to use the goods  for  his	 ownpurposes and not for the purpose of re-export or with a viewto  other  transactions	 of a commercial  character  in	 thegoods.	 It  would be noticed that  the	 ultimate  buyer-thesteam-ship  company could, if it desired, consume the  goodsin the sense of exhaust the goods by consumption within	 theState  or it could take it outside the State and consume  itthere, but that was a matter of its choice, dependent on itswill  and pleasure.  This would not therefore  detract	fromthe  delivery to it being for consumption within the  State.Goods  might be consumed either by destruction or by way  ofuse  depending	on  the nature of the  goods.	Thus  ediblearticles  are  generally consumed in a literal	sense  whileother articles like clothing or furniture etc. are  consumedby  being used, though they are not destroyed by  such	use.If  edible  articles are sold and delivered to	an  ultimateconsumer within a State, it is delivered for the purpose  ofconsumption  within  the State,	 notwithstanding,  that	 thebuyer  may not choose to consume the whole of  his  purchasewithin the State but takes part of it outside the State	 andconsumes  it there.  If, for instance, a vehicle is sold  tothe actual user and the sale is not in the course of  exportor  with a view to further commercial transactions in it  bythe  purchaser	by way of resale etc., the delivery  to	 theuser is for the purpose of his consumption within the State.The fact that such a purchaser might in the exercise of	 theenjoyment of his property-by way of use or " consumption  "-drive the vehicle to other States does not detract from	 theoriginal  delivery to him falling within the Explanation  toArt.  286(1)(a).  In the present case, the coal having	beendelivered  into	 the ship for being consumed by it,  it	 wasopen  to the master of the vessel to use the coal while	 theship  was  in the waters of Travancore-Cochin, or if  he  sochose take it outside those limits.  The position might be29226different  if the buyer were obliged by contract or  by	 lawnot  to use or consume the goods sold within the   State  ofdelivery, i.e., where he has no choice to consume it  there.In the case on hand, part of the coal	delivered could	 andwould certainly have been used by the ship during the periodof her stay in the harbour for loading and if such stay wereprolonged  owing to unforeseen causes even the	entire	coalmight have been exhausted and of course it would have to  beused  till  the	 ship left the limits of the  port  and	 thelimits	of State territory.  The crucial fact therefore	 wasthat  the coal was delivered to the actual consumer who	 wasat  liberty  to consume it wherever  he	 desired-the  choicedepending on his convenience and necessity.In  the	 circumstances, therefore, learned Counsel  for	 therespondent was right in his submission that the sale of	 the"bunker	 coal"	by  the	 assessee-company  fell	 within	 theExplanation  to Art. 286(1)(a).	 If there were nothing	moreand  the  liability of the assessee had to  be	judged	withreference to the charge imposed by the Sales-tax Act of	 theState,	read  in  the light of	the  Constitution,  the	 taxliability of the respondent-company would not have been opento doubt or dispute.  But the submission of learned  Counselwas that the State Government had power to exempt sales ofany particular designated type from tax liability under s. 6of  the	 Sales-Tax  Act, and that the Government  had  by  anotification  dated February 5, 1954, and published  in	 theofficial Gazette, exempted sales such as by the	 respondent-company	 in  the  present case from the	 levy  of  sales-taxduring the assessment years now in question.  The  exemptionunder this notification was no doubt not referred to by	 thelearned	 Judges	 of the High Court but had been one  of	 thegrounds	 on which the sales-tax appellate authority had	 setaside  the tax imposition by the Sales-tax Officer  and	 thepoint  had been specifically urged in the petition filed  inthe  High Court under Art. 226, and the	 respondent  cannot,therefore,  be denied the benefit of the notification if  itapplied.Section 6 of the Travancore-Cochin Sales-tax Act enacts:			    227"The Government may, by notification in the Gazette,   makean exemption.................. in respect of any tax   payableunder this Act :-(i)  on	 the  sale of any specified class of  goods  at	 allpoints or at any specified point or points in the series  ofsales by successive dealers ; or(ii)  of any specified class of persons " in regard  to	 thewhole or any part of their turnover". It is not necessary  to set out the rest of the section. Inthe  Travancore-Cochin Gazette dated February 16, 1954,	 thefollowing notification dated February 5, 1954, appeared:" According to the interpretation given by the Supreme Courtto Art. 286(1) of the Constitution in their judgment in	 theState  of  Bombay  v.  United  Motors  India  Ltd.   certaincategories  of	inter-State  transactions  come	 within	 thetaxing	powers of the State Government.	 While the  judgmentenables	 the Government of Travancore-Cochin to levy  sales-tax  on certain categories of non-resident  dealers  sellinggoods  for delivery and consumption in	Travancore.   CochinState  from the 1st April 1951, the Government	have,  afterdue  consideration,  decided  to  levy	sales-tax  on	suchtransactions   only  from  the	1st  April   1953-the	dateimmediately  following	that  on  which	 the  Supreme  Courtdelivered its judgment and to forego the levy prior to	thatdate ".Then followed provisions detailing the interim	arrangementsfor  submission of returns, of declarations to be filed	 andthe  manner  in which the tax should be assessed  and  paid.Though	the  learned counsel for the  appellant-State  urgedthat the notification could not have the statutory effect ofgranting exemption, we are clearly of the opinion that	thiswas  and must be deemed to be one issued in exercise of	 thepower  conferred  on the State Government by s.	 6(1)  whoserelevant  terms we have already extracted. Besides, this  israther	a  curious submission to make in view  of  what	 hadtranspired  earlier.  The appellate  Assistant	Commissionerwho  set  aside	 the assessment	 of  the  respondent-companystated in his order " Even if it is considered that the saleis for228consumption  in this State, the company need not pay tax  onthe turnover since Government have exempted from payment  oftax  on the sales which took place before April 1,  1953  ".When  this  appellate  order was set  aside  by	 the  DeputyCommissioner  acting  suo  motu in  revision,  there  is  noreference  made to the notification in the order and it	 wasnot stated that it had no statutory effect.  In its petitionto  the	 High Court under Art. 226,  the  respondent-companyclaimed	 the  benefit  of  the	exemption  granted  by	 thenotification  dated February 5, 1954, and published  in	 theGazette of February 16, 1954, relating to the assessment forthe period April 1, 1951 to April 1, 1953 and it added	thatthe  assessment	 in  question  came  within  the   exemptioncontained in the Gazette notification.	In answer to this  acounter-affidavit  was	filed by the sales-tax	officer	 whosaid  : " The notification referred to in  the	petitioner'saffidavit  has	no application to the case as the  sales  inquestion did not come within their orbit ". In other  words,the  objection	was  not that the  notification	 was  not  astatutory exercise of the power under s. 6(1) and  effectiveto  grant an exemption to the cases covered by it, but	thatthe transactions of the respondent-company were not  coveredby  the notification.  The extract we have quoted  from	 thenotification  shows that it is specially designed to  affordrelief	to cases of non-resident dealers engaged  in  inter-State  transactions  which  were  held	to  be	 intra-Statetransactions by reason of the application of the Explanationto  Art.  286(1)(a) to such sales by the  decision  of	thisCourt  in  the	United	Motors	Case.	As  the	  respondentcompany's  transactions in question clearly fall within	 thenotification  by  reason  of their nature  as  well  as	 theassessment years concerned, the respondent-company would  beentitled  to the benefit of the tax exemption  conferred  bythe notification.The  result is that the appeal fails and is  dismissed	withcosts.Appeal dismissed.			    229