PETITIONER:JADAB SINGH AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE HIMACHAL PRADESH ADMINISTRATIONAND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/04/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR 1008 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC1753	 (19) RF	    1968 SC 360	 (1) RF	    1975 SC2299	 (606,609,611,613)ACT:Estates, Abolition of--Enactment declared invalid as  havingbeen  passed  by  State Legislature  not  duly	constituted-Validating    Act    passed    by     Parliament-Competence-Constitutional	 validity  of  the  Abolition	Act-HimachalPradesh	 Abolition  of Big Landed Estates and  Land  ReformsAct, 1953 (Himachal 15 of 1954), ss. 11, 15-Himachal PradeshLegislative   Assembly	 (Constitution	 and	Proceedings)Validation  Act (No. 56 of 1958), ss. 3,  4-Constitution  ofIndia,	Arts.  19, 31, 31A, 240, 248, Item No. 97,  List  I,Seventh Schedule.HEADNOTE:On  October 10, 1958, the Himachal Pradesh Abolition of	 BigLanded	Estates	 and Land Reforms Act,	1953,  was  declaredinvalid	 by  the  Supreme  Court  on  the  ground  that	 theLegislative Assembly of the New Himachal Pradesh State whichpassed	it  was	 not  duly  constituted	 and  was  as	suchincompetent  to	 pass the Act (Vide: Shree  Vinod  Kumar  v.State of Himachal Pradesh, [1959] SUPP.	 1 S.C.R. 160).	 ThePresident   by	Ordinance  NO.	7  of  1958  validated	 theconstitution  and  proceedings of the said  Assembly.	ThatOrdinance was replaced by the Validating Act No. 56 of	1958passed	by the Parliament.  Section 3 of the  Act  validatedthe constitution and proceedings of the Legislative Assemblyof the Himachal Pradesh State and s. 4 prohibited the courtsfrom  questioning the validity of any Act or  proceeding  ofthe  Assembly on the ground of defect in  its  constitution.The  Himachal  Pradesh Abolition of Big Landed	Estates	 andLand Reforms Act was accordingly validated.  The petitionerswho  were land-holders challenged the  constitutionality  ofthe  Ordinance	and the validating Act, by  petitions  underArt. 32 of the Constitution:Held,  that (i) in view of Art. 24o as it stood	 before	 itsamendment by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956,the  Parliament was competent to enact the  validating	Act;(ii)  the provisions of the Abolition Act did  not  infringeArts. 19 and 31 Of the Constitution, and(iii)the  Abolition Act fell within the protection  of	Art.31A of the Constitution and it was not open to challenge  onthe  ground  that  it  infringed Arts.	19  and	 31  Of	 theConstitution.Shri  Ram Narain v. State of Bombay, [1959] Supp.  1  S.C.R.489, referred to.The  reason which precluded the members of the Old  HimachalPradesh Assembly from functioning as the Legislature of	 theNew Himachal Pradesh State was that a Notification underS.   74	 of, the Representation of the People Act 1951,	 Wasnot756issued.	  The Parliament, by- virtue of its residual  powersof  legislation under Art. 248 of the Constitution and	itemNo.  97 of List I to the Seventh Schedule, was competent  toremove the defect that arose because of the failure to issuethe  notification,   and to validate the actual	 proceedingsof the body which functioned as the Legislature.Under  Art. 240 Of the Constitution, as it stood  before  itwas  amended  by the Constitution (Seventh  Amendment)	Act,1956,  the  Parliament was not debarred	 from  enacting	 thevalidating  Act	 nor  did the power  of	 the  Parliament  tovalidate  the acts and proceedings of the State	 Legislaturecome to an end when the State itself ceased to exist.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 161 of1958 and 109  of1959.Petitions under Art. 32 of the Constitution of India for theenforcement of fundamental rights.Achhru	Ram, D. B. Prem and Ganpat Rai, for the	 petitioners(In  Petn.   No.  161 of 58 and 16, 17,	 35,  58,  69,	102,109/1959).D.R.  Prem,  B. Thiagarajan and T.  Satyanarayana,  for	 thepetitioners (In Petn.  No. 36 of 1959).C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, R.  GanapathyIyer,  R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for the  respondents	 (inall the petitions).1960.  April 28.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySHAH,  J.-In  the  First Schedule to  the  Constitution,  asoriginally  enacted under the heading " Part C States"	wereset  out  the names of ten "C" States.	 The  Parliament  ofIndia  enacted	The Government of Part C States Act,  49  of1951,	providing  for	the  constitution   of	 LegislativeAssemblies,  Councils of Ministers and Councils of  Advisersfor Part C States.  Under s. 4 of the Act, the President wasauthorised to delimit by order the constituencies into whicheach  Part  C State was to be divided and the areas  of	 theconstituencies,	 the number of seats allocated to each	suchconstituency and the number of seats reserved for  scheduledcastes	and tribes.  In exercise of the powers conferred  bys. 4 of the Act, the President made an order determining theconstituencies into which the State of Himachal Pradesh	 wasto be divided.	In 1952, elections were held to the HimachalPradesh	 Assembly  and	36  members  were  elected  in	 thedifferent  constituencies.  In the Legislative	Assembly  ofthe State,757Bill No. 7 of 1953 was introduced by the Government for	 theabolition  of  certain intermediaries in respect  of  landedestates.  Before that Bill was passed into an Act, on May 8,1954,  the Parliament of India enacted the Himachal  Pradeshand Bilaspur (New State) Act No. 32 of 1954.  This Act whichconstituted  a new State by uniting the States	of  HimachalPradesh and Bilaspur received the assent of the President onMay  28,  1954, and was brought into force under  a  notifi-cation dated July 1, 1954.  Under s. 12 of Act 32 of 1954, aLegislative  Assembly for the new State of Himachal  Pradeshwas  to be constituted with 41 seats to be filled by  directelections.   No	 fresh elections to the new  State  Assemblywere held, but on July 7, 1954, a notification was issued bythe  Lieutenant Governor of the new Himachal  Pradesh  Statepurporting  to exercise the powers conferred by s. 9 of	 theGovernment of Part C States Act, 1951, converting the secondsession	  of  1954  of	the  Himachal  Pradesh	 LegislativeAssembly.   Pursuant to this notification,  the	 Legislatureassembled and Bill No. 7 of 1953 which was introduced in theold Himachal C State Assembly was passed into an Act.	ThisAct  called  the Himachal Pradesh Abolition  of	 Big  LandedEstates	 and Land Reforms Act, 1954-hereinafter	 called	 theAbolition Act-received the assent of the President on Novem-ber   23,  1954,  and  was  brought  into  force   under   anotification  issued by the State Government on January	 26,1955.This  court, in petitions under Art. 32 of the	Constitutionchallenging  the  constitutional validity of  the  AbolitionAct,  held  that the said Act could not be recognised  as  apiece of legislation validly enacted.  It was held that eventhough	s. 15(1) of the New State Act provided that each  ofthe  36 sitting members representing a constituency  of	 theold  Legislative  Assembly  of Himachal Pradesh	 was  to  bedeemed	to have been elected by that constituency, and by  "the  deeming provision ", these members were placed  in	 thesame position in which they would have been placed had	theygone  through  the  entire  process  of	 election  and	beenelected,  as no notification had been issued under S. 74  ofthe Representation of the People758Act,  1951,  the  36 members of	 the  old  Himachal  PradeshAssembly could not constitute the Legislative Assembly.	  Itwas  further  held that by the notification  issued  by	 theLieutenant   Governor,	the  second  session  of   the	 oldLegislative   Assembly	was  summoned,	and  not   the	 newLegislative  Assembly; and in the session held	pursuant  tothe  command of the Lieutenant Governor, Bill No. 7 of	1953pending	 before	 the  Assembly of the old  State  which	 hadlapsed when that Assembly was dissolved could not be enactedas an Act of the Legislative Assembly of the new State.After this decision was pronounced on October 10, 1958,	 thePresident  issued  Ordinance No. 7 of  1958  validating	 theconstitution and proceedings of the Legislative Assembly  ofthe  new  State of Himachal Pradesh formed under Act  32  of1954,  and  prohibiting	 the  courts  from  questioning	 thevalidity of the proceedings of the new Legislative  Assemblyon the ground of defect in its constitution.  This Ordinancewas  replaced  by Act 56 of 1958.  Sections 3 and 4  of	 thesaid Act provided as under:Section 3:"  Notwithstanding anything contained in any law or  in	 anyjudgment, decree or order of any court,-(a)the body of persons summoned to meet from time to time asthe Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly (Himachal  PradeshVidhan Sabha) during the period commencing on the 1st day ofJuly,  1954, and ending with the 31st day of October,  1956,by  the	 Lieutenant  Governor of  Himachal  Pradesh  in	 theexercise  or purported exercise of the powers  conferred  onhim  by s. 9 of the Government of Part C States	 Act,  1951,shall  be  deemed  for all purposes to have  been  the	dulyconstituted  Legislative  Assembly  of	the  new  State	  ofHimachal  Pradesh formed under's. 3 of the Himachal  Pradeshand Bilaspur (New State) Act, 1954;(b)the	persons who sat or voted or otherwise took  part  inthe  proceedings  of the new Legislative Assembly  shall  bedeemed to have been entitled so to do as members;(c)the persons who functioned as the Speaker and the  DeputySpeaker of the new Legislative Assembly759shall be deemed to have been duly chosen as the Speaker	 andthe Deputy Speaker respectively;and accordingly-(1)any Bill passed by the new Legislative Assembly  (whetherthe  Bill was introduced in the new Legislative Assembly  orwas  introduced	 in  the Legislative  Assembly	of  HimachalPradesh functioning immediately before the 1st day of  July,1954)  and assented to by the President shall be  deemed  tohave been validly enacted and to have the force of law;(2)  any   grant   made,  resolution  passed   or   adopted,proceeding  taken or any other thing done by or	 before	 thenew Legislative Assembly shall be deemed to have been  made,passed, adopted, taken or done in accordance with law."Section 4:"No  court  shall  question any Act passed,  or	 any  grant,resolution, proceeding or thing made, passed, adopted, takenor done by or before the new Legislative Assembly merely  onthe  ground that the new Legislative Assembly had  not	beenduly constituted or on the ground that a person who was	 notentitled  so to do presided over, sat or voted or  otherwisetook  part  in	the  proceedings  of  the  new	 LegislativeAssembly."By  these  nine petitions, the	constitutional	validity  ofOrdinance No. 7 of 1958 and Act No. 56 of 1958 is challengedand  the  petitioners pray for writs of	 mandamus  or  otherwrits	or  directions	restraining  the  Himachal   PradeshAdministration and the Union of India from giving effect  toOrdinance  No. 7 of 1958 and Act No. 56 of 1958 and  to	 theAbolition Act or "acting in any manner under or on the basisof that Act ".Counsel	 for the petitioners contends, (1) that the  personssummoned  by  the Lieutenant-Governor  by  his	notificationdated  July 7, 1954, could not constitute a  Legislature  ofthe new State as those persons were not elected or nominatedin  the manner prescribed by Art. 240 of  the  Constitution;and  the  Parliament  could Dot by  law	 validate  acts	 andproceedings   of  that	body  which  had  no  authority	  tolegislate, (2) the Parliament in enacting the Validating760Act  had no authority retrospectively to form a	 LegislativeAssembly  in  violation	 of the terms of  Art.	240  of	 theConstitution  especially  when	the new	 State	of  HimachalPradesh which was formed under Act 32 of 1954 had ceased  toexist  at the date when the Abolition Act was  enacted,	 and(3) even if the Validating Act is not open to challenge, theAbolition Act contravened Art. 31 of the Constitution and istherefore  void as infringing the fundamental rights of	 thepetitioners  under Art. 19 and Art. 31 of the  Constitution.In our view, there is no substance in any of the contentionsraised.By Art. 240(1) of the Constitution, before it was amended bythe  Constitution  (Seventh  Amendment) Act,  1956,  it	 wasprovided:" 240. (1) Parliament may by law create or continue for	 anyState  specified  in  Part  C  of  the	First  Schedule	 andadministered  through  a Chief Commissioner  or	 Lieutenant-Governor-(a)a body, whether nominated, elected or partly nominated orelected, to function as a Legislature for the State; or(b)a  Council  of Advisers or Ministers, or both  with	suchconstitution, powers and functions in each case,, as may  bespecified in the law."By  the	 Article  as  it stood	before	its  amendment,	 theParliament  was competent by law to create or  continue	 forany  State specified in Part C of the First Schedule a	bodyto  function  as  a Legislature.  Under	 that  Article,	 theLegislature was to consist of persons nominated or  elected,or  partly  elected and partly nominated, and  there  is  nodispute	 that the Legislature consisting of members  validlyelected	 from the various constituencies functioned for	 theold State of Himachal Pradesh.	Those 36 members of the	 oldHimachal  Pradesh Assembly having been under Act 49 of	1951duly elected to the Assembly of that State, by virtue of  s.15(1) of Act 32 of 1954 each member was to be deemed to havebeen  duly elected by the corresponding constituency of	 theLegislature of the new State, and the only reason why  thosemembers could not function as a Legislature of the new Statewas that the notification under s. 74 of the  Representationof761the  People Act was not published.  The legislative acts  ofthat  Assembly	were undoubtedly unauthorised,	but  it	 Wascompetent to the Parliament by legislation to remove the barwhich arose because of the failure to issue the notificationand to validate the acts done by the Legislature.Article	 240 did not provide that the  Legislative  Assemblycould not function unless the members thereof were expresslyelected	 or  were nominated to the Legislature of a  Part  CState.	By Art. 248, the Parliament has the residuary  powerto  make laws with respect to any matter not  enumerated  inthe  Concurrent	 List  or the State  List,  and	 legislationseeking to remove the disability of members of a LegislativeAssembly of a Part C State arising because of the failure toissue  a notification under s. 74 of the  Representation  ofthe  People Act, is not covered by any item falling  in	 theConcurrent  List  or in the State List.	 By item No.  97  inList  I	 to the Seventh Schedule, the  Union  Parliament  iscompetent  to make any other law not enumerated in Lists  IIand  III.  The legislative competence of the  Parliament  toenact the Act is therefore not open to challenge.The  legislative competence of the Legislative	Assembly  ofthe  New Himachal State Assembly to enact the Abolition	 Actin  1954 cannot be and is not denied.  There is no  absolutebar  against  the  authority  of  the  Parliament  to  enactlegislation  which  takes away vested  rights  provided	 thelegislation falls within any of the legislative lists withinthe  competence of the Parliament and it does  not  infringeany  of the fundamental rights of the citizens.	  Again,  noconstitutional provision is violated by the enactment of Act56  of 1958.  We are also unable to hold that the  authorityof  Parliament to validate the acts and proceedings  of	 theAssembly  summoned  by the Lieutenant-Governor in  1954	 wasexhausted  when Art. 240 as it originally stood was  amendedby the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, and	PartC  State  of  Himachal Pradesh ceased to  exist.   When	 theValidating  Act	 was enacted, the Himachal  Pradesh  Part  CState  had  ceased  to	exist  but  on	that  'account,	 theauthority of the Parliament to validate762the  proceedings of the body of persons which  purported  tofunction  as the Legislative, Assembly under Act 32 of	1954was not extinguished.Did the Abolition Act infringe the fundamental rights of thepetitioners  under Art. 19 or Art. 31 of the Constitution  ?By  s.	1  1, the tenants were invested with  the  right  toacquire	 the interests of the land.owners in the lands	heldby  them.   It was provided that  notwithstanding  any	law,custom or contract to the contrary, any tenant other than  asub-tenant  shall, on application made to  the	compensationofficer	 at any time after the commencement of the  Act,  beentitled to acquire, on payment of compensation, the  right,title and interest of the land-owner in the land held by himsubject	 to  certain terms and conditions set  out  therein.Section	 14  permitted	acquisition by the  tenants  of	 therights	of the land-owners in a portion of the lands of	 thetenancy	 in  certain specified	circumstances.	 Section  15sanctioned  the acquisition by the State Government  of	 therights	of the land. owners by notification in	the  gazettedeclaring that as from such date and in respect of such areaas  may be specified in the notification, the  right,  titleand  interest of the land-owner in the lands of any  tenancyheld  under him by a tenant shall stand transferred  to	 andvest  in  the State Government free  from  all	encumbrancescreated	 in  such lands by the land-owner.  By	s.  16,	 themethod	of  computation	 of  the  compensation	payable	 foracquisition  of the right, title and interest of  the  land-owners under s. 15 is prescribed.  By s. 27, it was providedthat notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions ofthe  foregoing sections of that chapter, the land-owner	 whoheld land, the annual land revenue of which exceeded Rs. 125per  year,  the right, title and interest of such  owner  insuch  land  shall  be deemed to have  been  transferred	 andvested	in  the State Government free of  all  encumbrances.Sub-s.	(3)  of s. 27 laid down that  the  land-owner  whoseright  was acquired under sub-s. 1 by the  State  Governmentshall  be entitled to receive compensation to be  determinedby  the compensation officer having regard to so. 17 and  18of  the Act, in accordance with the provisions	of  ScheduleII; but in763the case of such occupancy tenant who was liable to pay rentin  terms of land revenue or the multiple of  land  revenue,the compensation payable to his landowner shall be  computedin  accordance with Schedule 1. Provision was also  made  bythe   Act   for	 State	management  of	lands	in   certaineventualities.	Article 31 of the Constitution as amended bythe  Constitution  (Fourth Amendment) Act,  1955,  provides,inter  alia,  that  a  law  for	 compulsory  acquisition  ofproperty for public purposes shall not be called in questionin any court on the ground that the compensation provided bythat  law  is  not  adequate, and by  Art.  31-A  which	 wassubstituted  by	 the Constitution  (Fourth  Amendment)	Act,1955, for the original Article with retrospective effect, itis provided that notwithstanding anything contained in	Art.13, no law providing for (a) the acquisition by the State ofany estate or of any rights therein or the extinguishment ormodification  of  any such rights...... shall be  deemed  tohave become void on the ground that it is inconsistent	withor takes away or abridges any of the fundamental rights con-ferred by Art. 14, 19 or 31; provided that where such law ismade  by the Legislature of a State, the provisions  of	 theArticle shall not apply thereto unless the law, having	beenreserved  for  the  consideration  of  the  President,	 hasreceived his assent.  The Abolition Act passed by the  StateAssembly was reserved for consideration of the President andit   received  his  assent.   The  impugned   Act   containsprovisions  transferring the interest of the land-owners  tothe tenants in lands and for acquisition by the State of theproperty of the land-owners on payment of compensation underthe  Schedule provided in that behalf.	This court has	heldin Sri Ram Narain v. State of Bombay (1) that a statute	 theobject	of  which  is  to bring	 about	agrarian  reform  bytransferring  the  interest of the  land-owners	 to  tenantsfalls within the class of statutes contemplated by Art.	 31-A(a)  and is protected from the attack that it violates	 thefundamental  rights enshrined in Arts. 14, 19 and 31 of	 theConstitution.	 Counsel   appearing  on   behalf   of	 thepetitioners conceded, and in our judgment rightly, that	 theprinciple of that case governed this(1)  [1959] Sapp; 1 S.C.R. 489;764case and the validity of s. 11 could not in view of Art. 31-A  be  challenged.   The  validity  of	the  provisions	 foracquisition by the State of the lands of the land-owners forcompensation determinable in accordance with the  provisionsof Sch. 11 is also not liable to be challenged under Art. 31read with Art. 31-A.In that view of the case, all these petitions must fail	 andthey are ordered to be dismissed with costs.				 Petitions dismissed.