PETITIONER:SHEW BUX MOHATA AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:BENGAL BREWERIES LTD.  AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/09/1960BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAYAL, RAGHUBARCITATION: 1961 AIR  137		  1961 SCR  (1) 680 CITATOR INFO : R	    1982 SC 989	 (53)ACT:Execution  proceedings-Delivery of Possession  acknowledged-Execution  case	 dismissed-If further  execution  ProceedingPermissible-Purchaser of respondent's interest-Whether couldbe added as Party-Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908),0. 21, r. 35, s. 146.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	decree-holders in  an  execution  proceedingaccepted delivery of possession and granted a receipt to theNazir of the Court acknowledging full delivery of possessionto  them but allowed the respondents, Bengal  Breweries,  toremain	in possession with their permission.  The  appellantalso  permitted	 the execution case to be dismissed  on	 thebasis that full possession had been delivered to them by therespondents.  Sometime thereafter the appellant made a freshapplication  for  execution  against  the  respondent,	 foreviction  which	 was  resisted	under s.  47  of  the  CivilProcedure Code alleging that so far as they were  concerned,the  decree  had  been fully executed as  a  result  of	 theearlier execution proceeding which had terminated, and	thatfurther execution was not permissible in law.Held,  that  it	 is  open to  the  decree-holder  to  acceptdelivery  of possession under 0. 21, r. 35, of the  Code  ofCivil  Procedure  without actual removal of  the  person  inpossession.   If  he  does  that then he  is  bound  to	 theposition  that	the decree has been fully executed,  and  itcannot be executed any more.Held, further, that on the principle in Saila Bala Dassi v.			    681Nirmala Sundari Dassi whereby the purchaser from the  appel-lant  under a purchase made prior to the appeal was  broughton the record of the appeal, a purchaser from the respondentunder a conveyance made prior to the appeal could be broughton the record of the appeal.Saila  Bala  Dassi v. Nirmala Sundari Dassi,  [1958]  S.C.R.1287, followed,Maharaja  Jagadish  Nath  Roy v.  Nafay	 Chandra  Paramanik,(1930) 35 C.W.N. 12, approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 58 of 1958.Appeal from the Judgment and decree dated April 5, 1955,  ofthe  Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Original  Order	 No.206 of 1953, arising out of the judgment and order dated May20,  1953, of the Fourth Additional Sub-Judge, 24  Paris  atAlipore in Misc.  Case No. 15 of 1951.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   C.	  B.Aggarwala and Sukumar Ghose, for the appellants.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India and R.C. Datta, for the respondents Nos. 3 and 4.1960.	September  15.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered bySARKAR J.-This appeal arises out of an execution proceeding.It  is filed by the decree-holders and is  directed  againstthe judgment of the High Court at Calcutta setting aside theorder  of a learned Subordinate Judge at Alipore  dismissingthe  objection of a judgment-debtor to the  execution.	 TheHigh Court held that the decree having earlier been executedin  full,  the present proceedings for	its  execution	wereincompetent  and  thereupon  dismissed	the  decree-holders'petition for execution.	 The question that arises is whetherthe decree had earlier been executed in full.The  facts  appear to have been as  follows:-One  SukeshwariAlied  sometime	 prior to 1944 possessed of three  plots  ofland which at all material times, bore premises Nos. 26,  27and  28,  Dum  Dum  Cossipore  Road,  in  the  outskirts  ofCalcutta.  She left a will of which defendants Nos. 1, 2 and6 were the executors.682The  executors	granted leases of these different  plots  ofland to defendants Nos. 3, 4 and 5 respectively and put themin possession.Certain	  persons   called  Mohatas  whose   interests	 arerepresented by the appellants in the present appeal, claimedthat Sukeshwari had only a life interest in the lands  whichon  her	 death	had vested in them  and	 the  executors	 hadtherefore  no right to grant the leases.  They filed a	suitagainst the executors and the tenants on September 15, 1954,in the Court of a Subordinate Judge at Alipore for a  decreedeclaring  that the defendants had no right to	possess	 thelands  and  for khas possession by evicting  the  defendantsfrom the lands by removing the structures, if any, put up bythem  there.   On March 30, 1948,  the	learned	 SubordinateJudge  passed a decree for khas possession in favour of	 theMohatas	 and gave the defendants six months time  to  removethe  structures put up on the land.  It is the execution  ofthis decree with which the appeal is concerned.Defendant  No. 3 appealed from this decree and	that  appealsucceeded for reasons which do Dot appear on the record.  Itis  not necessary to refer to defendant No. 3 further as  weare  not concerned in this appeal with him.  It may  howeverbe  stated that he was in possession of premises No. 26	 andno  application	 for  execution appears to  have  been	madeagainst him.The executor defendants also appealed from the decree.	 Theother two tenants, defendants Nos. 4 and 5, did not  appeal.Of these tenants we are Concerned only with defendant No. 4,the Bengal Breweries Ltd., a company carrying on business asdistillers.   It  was in possession of premises No.  27,  onwhich  it  had	built a factory for  distilling	 liquor	 andyeast.	Defendant No. 5 was in possession of premises No. 28on which stood some temples.On  September  22, 1948, the Mohatas  the  decree.  holders,filed an application in the Court of the learned SubordinateJudge for execution of the decree against defendants Nos. 1,2, 4, 5 & 6. On September 25, the learned Subordinate  Judgepassed an order in execution			    683issuing	 a writ for delivery of possession of premises	Nos.27  and	 28 to the decree-holders by  removing,	 any  personbound by the decree who refused to vacate the same and fixedNovember 22 for making the return to the writ.	On September28,  the decree-holders applied to the	learned	 SubordinateJudge  for obtaining help from the police for executing	 thedecree.	  On September 29, the executor	 defendants  appliedfor  a	short stay of execution to enable them to  obtain  astay order from the High Court.	 Defendant No. 4 also itselfmade an application for staying the execution for two monthsto  enable  it to come to an arrangement  with	the  decree-holders in the meantime.  On the decree-holders assuring theCourt that they would not execute the decree till 2 p. m. ofthe  next  day these two petitions by  the  judgment-debtorswere adjourned till September 30.On September 30, 1948, the two petitions for stay were takenup  for	 hearing  by the learned  Subordinate  Judge.	Withregard	to  the	 petition by  the  executor  defendants,  heobserved  that he had no power to stay execution in view  of0.  41, r. 5, of the Code of Civil Procedure  and  thereupondismissed that petition.  The petition for time by defendantNo. 4 was also dismissed but in respect of it the  followingobservation  appears  in  the order:  "	 The  decree-holdersundertake  that	 they  will allow the company  to  carry  onnormal	business  for six weeks from now by which  time	 thecompany	 will  settle  matter  with  the  decree-holders  ".Thereafter  on the same day the decree-holders deposited  inCourt, the necessary costs for police help for executing thedecree	and  the  learned Subordinate  Judge  requested	 thepolice to render the necessary help on October 1, 1948.	  Italso appears that subsequently on the same day defendant No.4  filed another petition for stay of execution and  also  apetition under s. 47 of the Code objecting to the execution,alleging  that there was a tentative arrangement between  itand the decree-holders that it would pay Rs. 150 as  monthlyrent  and  it  need not file any  appeal  to  challenge	 thevalidity  of the decree.  The decree-holders  opposed  thesepetitions by defendant684No.  4. The learned Subordinate Judge made no order on	thembut adjourned them to November 11, 1948, as he felt that thematter required investigation.On  October  1, 1948, the Nazir of the	Court  proceeded  topremises  Nos.	27 and 28 with certain	police	officers  toexecute the decree in terms of the writ.  He found the	gateof premises No. 27 closed but later the manager of defendantNo.  4 opened it at his request.  What	happened  thereafterappears	 from  the  return  of the Nazir  which	 is  in	 thefollowing  words: " We then entered into the  factory  houseand  delivered possession in each of the buildings at  about10-30  a.  m.  Before removal of  the  furniture  and  othermovables   from	 those	buildings  there  was  an   amicablesettlement between the decree-holders and the manager of thefactory	 that  the factory will run its normal	business  asbefore for 6 weeks and in the meantime the executive body ofthe   factory will make settlement with	 the  decree-holdersand  some  of the decree-holders' men will remain  there  asguards	".  It is admitted that the  decree-holders'  guardswere thereafter posted on the premises.The  Nazir then proceeded to premises No. 28 and the  returnalso  shows that he delivered possession of  these  premisesto'  the decree-holders, The relevant portion of the  returnis  in these words: "Then we proceeded towards the  premisesNo.  28 (Old No. 8) Consisting of 2 temples and	 found	thatthe priest of the temple was present.  He amicably came	 outof the compound and possession was delivered of the temples,lands, tanks and other plots mentioned in the writ."After  possession  had been  delivered,	 the  decree-holdersexecuted  on  the same day a receipt  in  acknowledgment  ofpossession having been received by them.  That receipt is inthese terms:"  Received  from  Sri	Bhabataran  Banerjee,  Naib   Nazir,District  Judge's Court, Alipore, 24-Parganas,	delivery  ofpossession  of premises Nos. 7 and 8 (formerly Nos.  27	 and28) Dum Dum Cossipore Road in the above execution case, thisday  at 10-30 a.m. including all buildings,  tanks,  gardensand  temples, etc., all these mentioned in the writ  in	 itsschedule."			    685The receipt by mistake describes the premises as "  formerly" Nos. 27 and 28 for the premises then bore these numbers.It  appears  that  at 11-15 a. m. on October  1,  1948,	 theexecutor  defendants  moved the High Court) for	 a  stay  ofexecution in the appeal filed by them from the decree.	 TheHigh  Court directed an ad interim stay.  After	 this  orderhad  been  made the executor defendants	 moved	the  learnedSubordinate  Judge on the same day for consequential  orderson the strength of the stay of execution granted by the HighCourt.	 The  learned Subordinate Judge thereupon  made	 thefollowing order : " In the special circumstances recall	 thewrit  provisionally.   To  5th November,  1948,	 for,  freshconsideration  if formal stay order is not received  in	 themeantime   ".	This  order  was  passed   on	the   verbalrepresentation	of the lawyers for the	executor  defendantsthat  the High Court had directed the stay of execution	 forthere  had  not been time for the High Court's order  to  beformally   drawn   up  and  produced  before   the   learnedSubordinate Judge.On November 22, 1948, which was the day fixed for making thereturn	to  the execution of the writ, the  following  orderappears to have been passed by the learned Subordinate Judgein  the execution case: " Possession delivered.	  One  thirdparty has filed an application under Or. 21, r. 100,  C.P.C.Let the execution case be put up after the disposal of Misc.Case No. 13 of 1948." The Miscellaneous Case No. 13 of	1948was the one started on the petition of the third party underOr. 21, r. 100 of the Code, objecting to his removal by	 theexecution.   This third party was one Bhairab Tewari and  hepresumably  was claiming some right in premises No.  28	 forthere  was no question of his making any claim	to  premisesNo. 27 which were exclusively in the possession of defendantNo. 4.The  ad interim stay issued by the High Court on October  1,1948,  in the appeal filed by the executor defendants,	cameup for final hearing and resulted in the following order  onJanuary 21, 1949."If anything is due on account, of costs which686has  not  been paid, that amount will be  deposited  in	 theCourt  below  by defendant No. 4 (i.e.,	 Mr,  Sen's  client)within a month from to day, and then three month's time fromto-day	will be given to him to	 remove the machineries	 andvacate	that  portion  of  the land  in	 suit  which  he  isoccupying  as  a  lessee  and which he is  using  now  as  abrewery.   In default of the deposit being made and also  indefault	 of  vacating the premises as directed	above,	thisRule will stand discharged.We  do	not stay delivery of possession in  respect  of	 anyother  item in which defendant No. 4 or No. 1, or any  otherdefendant save and except defendant No. 3 is interested."The appearances of the parties recorded in this order do notshow  any appearance having been made in connection with  itby defendant No. 4. It does not appear from the records whatother  proceedings, if any, were taken in the appeal by	 theexecutor  defendants  but  it  is  agreed  that	 appeal	 wasdismissed on September 8, 1954.Defendant  No.	4  did not vacate at the end  of  the  threemonths	mentioned  in the order of January  21,	 1949.	 Theparties	 then took proceedings in Criminal Courts  under  s.144  of the Code of Criminal Procedure and  other  connectedprovisions.    It  is  not  necessary  to  refer  to   theseproceedings  and  it is enough to state that  they  did	 notaffect the possession of premises No. 27 by defendant No. 4,who  continued in possession till the United Bank  of  IndiaLtd. took over possession as hereinafter stated.On  September 8, 1949, the following order was made  by	 thelearned Subordinate Judge in the execution case:"  Decree-holder takes no other steps.	Possession so far asregards the Bengal Breweries are concerned, delivered.			  Orderedthat the execution case be dismissed on part satisfaction."On September 27, 1951, the decree-holders made a			    687fresh  application  for execution against  defendant  No.  4alone by evicting it from premises No. 27.  Defend- ant	 No.4  put in an objection against the execution under s. 47  ofthe  Code  alleging  that so far as it	was  concerned,	 thedecree	had been fully executed as a result of	the  earlierexecution  proceedings	which  terminated by  the  order  ofSeptember  8,  1949,  and that	further	 execution  was	 notpermissible  in law.  It is out of this objection  that	 thepresent	 appeal has arisen and the question for decision  iswhether the objection to the execution so raised, is  sound.As  earlier stated, the learned Subordinate Judge  dismissedthe objection to the execution but on appeal the High  Courtset   aside  his  order	 and  dismissed	 the  petition	 forexecution.   The  High Court granted a	certificate  for  anappeal to this Court on June 15, 1956 and on August 3, 1956,the High Court passed an order directing that the appeal  beadmitted.On  August 11, 1960, an order was made by this Court  addingthree  persons named Mool Chand Sethia, Tola Ram Sethia	 andHulas  Chand Bothra as parties respondents to  this  appeal.The  order  however  provided that  the	 appellants  decree-holders would have a right to object to the locus standi  ofthese persons in the appeal.  At the hearing before us	onlythese  added  parties  appeared to contest  the	 appeal	 Theappellants  have  raised a preliminary	objection  that	 theadded  parties have no locus standi and cannot be  heard  inthe appeal.It   appears  that  defendant  No.  4  had  executed   threesuccessive mortgages of premises No. 27 with all  structuresand  appurtenances,  to	 a bank called	the  Coming  BankingCorporation  Ltd.   The first of these	mortgages  had	beenexecuted  on May 25, 1944, and the other two  mortgages	 hadbeen executed after the suit in ejectment had been filed butbefore	that  suit  had been decreed.	The  assets  of	 theComing	Banking Corporation Ltd. became subsequently  vestedin  the United Bank Limited.  Some time in 1953, the  UnitedBank filed a suit for enforcement of the mortgages.  On	 May30, 1955, a final mortgage decree was passed88688in  favour  of the United Bank.	 On July  20,  1956,	 themortgaged properties were put up to auction and purchased bythe  United Bank.  On March 1, 1958, the mortgage  sale	 wasconfirmed  and	subsequently   the United  Bank	 was  put inpossession of premises No. 27.	On July 13,1960, the  UnitedBank Conveyed premises No. 27 along with all structures	 andappurtenances and all its right, title and interest  thereinto  these  added  respondents.	 It is	by  virtue  of	thisconveyance  that  the added respondents obtained  the  orderfrom  this Court dated August 11, 1960, making them  partiesto the appeal.	Defendant No. 4, the Bengal Breweries  Ltd.,is  now in liquidation and it has not entered appearance  tothis appeal nor taken any steps to defend it.It  appears to us that the added respondents  were  properlybrought	 on'  record.  The decision of this Court  in  SailaBala Dassi v. Nirmala Sundari Dassi (1), supports that view.There it was held that an appeal is a proceeding within	 themeaning	 of  s.	 146 of the Code and the right	to  file  anappeal carried with it the right to continue an appeal whichhad  been  filed  by the person	 under	whom  the  appellantclaimed	 and  on this basis a purchaser from  the  appellantunder  a purchase made prior to the appeal was'	 brought  onthe  record  of	 the  appeal.  We think	 that  on  the	sameprinciple  the added respondents in the case before us	wereproperly brought on the record.It  is not in dispute that if the decree was  once  executedagainst defendant No. 4 in full, then it cannot be  executedover  again regarding premises No. 27.	In other  words,  ifpossession  had been fully delivered to	 the  decree-holdersin.  execution of the decree on October 1, 1948, the  decreemust  have been wholly satisfied and nothing remains  of  itfor  enforcement by further execution.	The decree  was	 forkhas  possession  and under Or. 21, r. 35, of this  Code  inexecution of it possession of the property concerned had  tobe delivered to the decree-holders, if necessary, by  remov-ing any person bound by the decree who refused to vacate theproperty.  The records of the proceedings(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 1287.689show  that such possession was delivered.  Defendant  No.  4was  the party in possession and bound by the decree.	Withregard	to defendant No. 4, the order made on  September  8,1949,  states,	" Possession so far as	regards	 the  BengalBreweries  are	concerned,  delivered."	 This  is  an  orderbinding	 on the decree-holders.	 It has not been  said	thatthis  order  was wrong nor any attempt made at any  time  tohave  it  set aside or to challenge its correctness  in	 anymanner.	  The same is the position with regard to the  orderof  November 22, 1948, recording on the Nazir's return	thatpossession had been delivered in terms of the writ.The order of September 9, 1949, no doubt further' states,  "Ordered	 that  the  execution  case  be	 dismissed  on	partsatisfaction  ".  The words " part satisfaction	 "  in	thisorder, however clearly do not refer to part satisfaction  asagainst defendant No. 4, the Bengal Breweries, for the orderexpressly states, " possession so far as regards the  BengalBreweries   are	 concerned,  delivered."  The	decree	 hadtherefore  been	 satisfied  in full as	against	 the  BengalBreweries  Ltd. and consequently as regards premises No.  27in  its possession.  Even the learned Subordinate Judge	 whoheld  the  execution maintainable found that "	the  decree-holders	 had no doubt previously got possession ".  Notwith-standing  this, the learned Subordinate Judge  decided	thatthe decree could still be executed as he took the view	thatat  the hearing before the High Court on January  21,  1949,defendant  No.	4  "  must  have  ignored  the	delivery  ofpossession  by the Naib Nazir and he cannot now be heard  tosay  that the delivery of possession by the Naib  Nazir	 waslegal  and valid ". For reasons to be stated later,  we	 areunable to agree with this view.It is true that the Nazir's return showed that defendant No.4  had	not been bodily removed.  But the same	return	alsoshows  that  it had not been so removed because	 of  certainarrangement arrived at between it and the decree-holders andas  the	 decree-holders	 had not  required  the	 removal  ofdefendant No. 4 from the premises.  Now under Or. 21, r.  35a  person  in possession and bound by the decree has  to  beremoved690only if necessary, that is to say, if necessary to give	 thedecree-holder the possession he is entitled to and asks for.It would not be necessary to remove the person in possessionif the decree-holder does not want such removal.  It is opento the' decree-holder to accept delivery of possession underthat   rule  without  actual  removal  of  the	 person	  inpossession.  If he does that, then lie cannot later say thathe  has	 not  been given that possession  to  which  he	 wasentitled under the law.	 This is what happened in this case.The decree-holders in the present case, of their own accept-ed delivery of possession with defendant No. 4 remaining  onthe premises with their permission.  They granted a  receiptacknowledging  full delivery of possession.  They  permittedthe execution case to be dismissed on September 8, 1949,  onthe basis that full possession had been delivered to them bydefendant No. 4. The fact that they put their guards on	 thepremises as mentioned in the Nazir's return would also	showthat they had obtained full possession.	 It was open to	 thedecree-holders to accept such possession.  Having once	doneso, they are bound to the position that the decree has	beenfully  executed,  from which it follows that  it  cannot  beexecuted  any more.  In the case of Maharaja  Jagadish	NathRoy  v. Nafar Chandra Parmanik (1) an exactly similar  thingbad happened and it was held that the decree was not capableof further execution.  It was there said at p. 15," The case, therefore, seems to me to be one of those  casesin which a decree-holder having armed himself with a  decreefor  khas  possession  executes that  decree  in  the  firstinstance  by obtaining symbolical possession only with	someulterior object of his own, and thereafter subsequently	 andas  a  second  instalment asks	for  khas  possession.	 Thequestion  is whether such a course is permissible under	 thelaw.  I am of opinion that it is not ".We entirely agree with the view that was there expressed.The  learned Solicitor-General appearing for the  appellantscontended that the order of September 30,(1)  (1930) 35 C.W.N. 12.			    6911948, shows that the decree-holders bad undertaken to  allowdefendant  No. 4 to carry on normal business for  six  weeksand  therefore, on October 1, 1948, when they  proceeded  toexecute	 the decree, they were not seeking to execute it  infull  by removing defendant No. 4 from possession.  He	saidthat  the  execution on October 1, 1948, was  therefore	 notcomplete as defendant No. 4 had not been removed pursuant tothe undertaking given on September 29, 1948.  We are  unableto read the order made on September 8, 1949, or the  Nazir'sreturn	and the receipt granted by the decree-holders  in  amanner	contrary to the plain meaning of the words  used  inthem,  because of the undertaking.  Further, it is  not	 thecase of the decree-holders that order, the Nazir's return orthe receipt is incorrect or had come into existence  throughany misapprehension.  The legality or correctness of none ofthese  was  ever  nor  is  now	challenged.   The  order  ofSeptember 8, 1949, is binding on the decree-holders and theycannot	now  go	 behind its terms.   For  the  same  reason,neither	 can they go behind the order of November 22,  1948,recording in terms of the Nazir's return that possession hadbeen delivered.It  further seems to us that if the undertaking	 meant	thatdefendant No. 4, was not to be removed from possession, thenthe execution would have been stayed, which it was not,	 forthe only way in which it was possible to execute the  decreewas by removal of defendant No. 4 from possession as it	 wasalone in actual possession, the executor defendants claimingonly  rent  from it as landlord.  Then again  the  order  inwhich the undertaking appears, also states that the stay  ofexecution  against  defendant  No. 4 as	 asked	by  it,	 wasrefused.    Besides  this,  the	 order	sheet	shows	thatimmediately after the order stating the undertaking had beenmade  another order was made on the same  day  acknowledgingreceipt	 from the decree-holders of the costs of the  policefor  helping  the execution and directing  that	 the  policemight be approached to render any help necessary on  October1,  1948, at the time of the execution of the  decree.	 Theonly  possible way to reconcile all the various orders,	 thereturn692and  the  receipt, is to proceed on the basis  that  by	 theundertaking  the decree-holders agreed that after  they	 hadtaken  possession,  they  would allow  defendant  No.  4  tocontinue  its  business on the premises for six	 weeks	withtheir  permission.  Such undertaking does not show  that  itwas not intended to remove defendant No. 4 from possession.The  learned Solicitor-General also contended that the	factthat  the undertaking was confined only to a period  of	 sixwee s would show that the decree-holders were not permittingdefendant  No.	4 to continue in possession after  they	 hadobtained  possession from it, for then no period would	havebeen  mentioned.  We are unable to accept this argument	 forthere  is nothing to prevent the decree-holders	 after	theyhad   obtained	possession  under  the	decree,	  to   grantpermission to defendant No. 4 to continue in possession	 forany  period  they. liked; such permission could be  for	 sixweeks  or  for any longer or shorter period as	the  decree-holders thought fit.The  learned Solicitor-General then contended that the	casewas one where the decree had been partly executed on one dayand execution had been stopped on that day for want of	timeor  other  reason,  with the object of continuing  it  on  asubsequent  day.   In such a case, he said, there  would  benothing to prevent subsequent execution of the same  decree.It  does  not seem to us that the present case	is  of	thisnature.	 The orders and documents on the record are  againstthis  view.  The further execution is not in the  course  ofthe  earlier  execution	 but  is  a  fresh  execution.	 Theinterruption in the execution was for over two years.  Apartfrom  other things, the placing of their own guards  on	 thepremises  by the decree-holders could only be on  the  basisthat  they  had taken possession.   The	 learned  Solicitor-General	 said  that the guards had been put there  with	 thepermission  of	defendant  No.	4.  The	 Nazir's  return  isentirely  against such a view.	Indeed, it is  difficult  tosee  why  defendant No. 4 would permit	the  decree-holders'guards	on  the	 premises unless it was on  the	 basis	thatpossession  had	 been taken by the  decree-holders  and	 theguards			    693were  there  to protect their possession.  The	guards	weresubsequently  removed  but  it does  not  appear,  from	 therecords. in what circumstances they were' removed.Nor  do we think that the order of October 1, 1948,  assiststhe  decree-holders.   That order directed the	writ  to  berecalled  provisionally.  The order was	 wholly	 infructuousfor  the writ had earlier been duly executed.	The  learnedSubordinate Judge himself came to that finding.	 This. as wehave  said, is also clear from the records of the  executioncase.	The  writ could not be recalled after  it  had	been'executed  fully.   Nor does the order	establish  that	 thedecree had been executed in part only.	The writ was not  infact  recalled before the decree had been executed in  full.The order of September 8, 1949, makes it impossible to	holdthat  the  writ was recalled after it had been	executed  inpart only.The other argument advanced by the learned Solicitor-Generalwas  based on the order of the High Court dated January	 21,1949.  It was said that order indicated that the decree	 hadnot   been  executed  by  removing  defendant  No.  4	frompossession because it, in substance, was an order for a stayof execution of the decree.  It was also said that the ordermust have been on the basis of a representation by defendantNo. 4 and a finding that the decree had not been executed byremoving  defendant No. 4 from possession.   The  contentionwas that finding and representation was binding on defendantNo.  4	and therefore on the added respondents	and  furtherthat having obtained the order on the basis that it had	 notbeen  ousted from possession in execution, defendant  No.  4and  hence the added respondents, could not be permitted  toapprobate  and reprobate that position and now be heard	 to-say that the decree had been executed in full.We  think that both these contentions are  ill-founded.	 Theorder  is far from clear.  We have already pointed out	thatthere  is  nothing in it to show that defendant	 No.  4	 hadasked  for any stay.  Defendant No. 4 had not appealed	fromthe decree.  It was not694entitled  to a stay of the execution of the decree.  It	 wasin  possession	of the premises with the permission  of	 thedecree-holders.	  The permission had initially been for	 sixweeks  which period had expire was executor  defendants	 whohad  obtained  an  ad interim stay from the  High  Court  onOctober 1, 1948.  This order was infructuous because  forty-five minutes prior to the time that it was made, the  decreehad been executed in full.  In those circumstances the Courton January 21, 1949, may be at the request of defendant	 No.4,  gave it three months' time to vacate the premises.	 Therequest,  if  any,  by defendant No. 4 does  not  involve  arepresentation	that  the decree had not  been	executed  infull.  It may, at most, mean that the six weeks'  permissioninitially  granted  by the decreeholders  might	 be  furtherextended.   With  regard. to the other	contention,  namely,that  the order of January 21, 1949, amounted to  a  findingthat  the decree had not been executed in full, we  have  topoint  out that no such finding appears on the face  of	 it.The  order was made on an interlocutory proceeding  and	 wasonly  in  aid  of the final decision  in  the  appeal.	 Theproceeding  in	which the order was made did not  involve  adecision  of the issue whether the decree had  earlier	beenexecuted in full.  No finding on such an issue can thereforebe implied in the order.  This order does not in our view inany  way prevent the added respondents from contending	thatthe decree had been executed in full.In  the result this appeal fails and it is dismissed. We  donot think it fit to make any order as to costs.		     Appeal dismissed.			    695.