PETITIONER:THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA	Vs.RESPONDENT:VISHNU RAMCHANDRADATE OF JUDGMENT:18/10/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  307		  1961 SCR  (2)	 26 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1964 SC 464	 (13) RF	    1973 SC1227	 (54)ACT:Externment--Order, if can relate to antecedents of convictedoffenders--Statute, if Prospective or  retrospective--BombayPolice Act, 1951 (22 of 1951), SS. 57(1), 142--Indian  PenalCode, SS. 114, 380, 411.HEADNOTE:On November 16, 1949, the respondent was convicted under ss.38o  and II4 of the Indian Penal Code.	On October 5,  1957,the  Deputy Commissioner of Police, Bombay, acting under  s.57(1) of the Bombay Police Act passed an order externing himfrom the limits of Greater Bombay.  Later he was  prosecutedand  convicted under s. 142 of the Bombay Police Act by	 thePresidency  Magistrate for returning to the area from  whichhe  was externed.  On an application for revision  the	HighCourt acquitted the respondent upholding his contention thatS. 57 of the Bombay Police Act was not retrospective and wasnot applicable unless the conviction on which the externmentwas  based  took place after the Act came  into	 force.	  Onappeal by the appellant with the special leave of this Courtit was27Held,  that though statutes must ordinarily  be	 interpretedprospectively unless the language makes them  retrospective,either	expressly  or by necessary  implication,  and  penalstatutes creating new offences are always prospective, penalstatutes creating disabilities though ordinarily interpretedprospectively are sometimes interpreted retrospectively whenthe  intention	is not to punish but to protect	 the  publicfrom  undesirable  persons whose past conduct  is  made	 thebasis of future action.Midland	 Ry.  Co. v. Pye, IO C.B. (N.S.) 179, Rex v.  Birth-whistle,  (1889)  58 L.J. (N.S.) M.C. 158,  Queen  v.  Vine,[1875]	IO  Q.B. 195, Ex Parte Pratt, [1884]  12  Q.B.	334,Bourke	v.  Nutt,  [1898]  I  Q.B.  725,  Ganesan  v.	A.K.Joscelyne, A.I.R. 1957 Cal. 33, Taher Saifuddin v.  TyebbhaiMoosaji,  A.I.R. 1953 Bom. 183, The Queen v. Inhabitants  ofSt. Mary Whitechapel, [1848] 12 Q.B. 120 (E) : 116 E.R.	 811and  Rex  v.  Austin,  [1913] 1	 K.B.  551,  considered	 andapplied.Section	 57  of the Bombay Police Act did not create  a	 newoffence	 but  was designed to protect the  public  from	 theactivities  of undesirable persons convicted  of  particularoffences  and enabled the authorities to take note of  theiractivities  in order to put them outside the areas of  theiractivities for preventing any repetition of such  activitiesin the future.The  verb " has been " as used in S. 57 meant "	 shall	havebeen Legislation which takes note of a convicted  offender'santecedents for restraining him from his acts cannot be saidto  be applied retrospectively as long as the  action  takenagainst	 him is after the Act comes into force.	 The Act  inquestion   was	 thus  not   applied   retrospectively	 butprospectively.An  externment order must be bona fide and must relate to  aconviction which is sufficiently proximate in time.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 78  of1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember  25,  1958,  of the former  Bombay  High  Court  inCriminal  Revision Application No. 1393 of 1958 arising	 outof  the judgment and order dated September 18, 1958, of	 thePresidency  Magistrate 11 Class, Mazagaon at Bombay in	CaseNo. 1101/P of 1958.R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.The respondent did not appear.1960.  October 18.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby28HIDAYATULLAH  J.-This is an appeal by the State of  Bombay,with  the special leave of this Court, against the order  ofacquittal  by  the High Court of Bombay of  the	 respondent,Vishnu	Ramchandra, who was prosecuted under s. 142  of	 theBombay Police Act and sentenced to six months' rigorous	 im-prisonment   by	 the  Presidency  Magistrate,	2nd   Court,Mazagaon, Bombay.On November 16, 1949, Vishnu Ramehandra was convicted  unders.  380 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code, and  sentenced  toone month's rigorous imprisonment.  On October 15, 1957, theDeputy	'Commissioner  of Police, Bombay,  acting  under  s.57(a) of the Bombay Police Act (22 of 1951), passed an orderagainst Vishnu Ramchandra which was to operate for one year,externing  him from the limits of Greater Bombay.   At	thattime,  a prosecution under s. 411 of the Indian	 Penal	Codewas  pending  against  Vishnu Ramchandra,  and	he  was	 notimmediately  externed,	to enable him to  attend  the  case.This  prosecution  came	 to an end on  July  10,  1958,	 andresulted  in  his  acquittal.	Immediately  afterwards,   aconstable took him outside the limits of Greater Bombay, andleft  him there.  The prosecution case was that he  returnedto  Greater Bombay, and was arrested at Pydhonie  on  August24,  1958.   He was prosecuted under s. 142  of	 the  BombayPolice	Act.  His plea that he was forcibly brought back  toPydhonie  and  arrested was not accepted by  the  PresidencyMagistrate, and he was convicted.He  filed  a  revision application, which  was	heard  by  alearned	 single	 Judge of the High Court of  Bombay.   Threecontentions  were raised before the High Court.	  The  firstwas  that the Deputy Commissioner of Police had not  appliedhis mind to the facts of the case before making the order ofexternment.  The second was that s. 57 of the Bombay  PoliceAct  was  prospective,	and could not  be  made	 applicable,unless the conviction on which the action of externment	 wasbased,	took place after the coming into force of that	Act.The  third  was that the belief entertained  by	 the  DeputyCommissioner that Vishnu Ramchandra was29likely	to  engage himself in the commission of	 an  offencesimilar to that for which he was prosecuted was based on theprosecution  which  was then pending, and that	that  grounddisappeared  after  his acquittal.  The High Court  did	 notconsider  the first and the third grounds, because  it	heldthat the second ground was good.Section 57 of the Bombay Police Act reads as follows:" Removal of persons convicted of certain offences-If a person has been convicted-(a)  of	 an  offence under Chapter XII, XVI or XVII  of	 theIndian Penal Code (XLV of 1860), or(b)  twice of an offence under section 9 or 23 of the BombayBeggars Act, 1945 (Bom.	 XXIII of 1945,) or under the BombayPrevention of Prostitution Act, 1923 (Bom.  XI of 1923), or(c)  thrice  of	 an offence within a period of	three  yearsunder section 4 or 12A of the Bombay Prevention of  GamblingAct,   1887  (Bom.   IV	 of  1887),  or	 under	the   BombayProhibition Act, 1949 (Bom.  XXV of 1949) the  Commissioner,the  District  Magistrate or the  Sub-Divisional  Magistratespecially empowered by the State Government in this  behalf,if  he	has reason too believe that such  person  is  likelyagain  to  engage himself in the commission  of	 an  offencesimilar to that for which he was convicted, may direct	suchperson	to remove himself outside the area within the  locallimits	of his jurisdiction, by such route and	within	suchtime  as the said officer may prescribe and not to enter  orreturn	to  the area from which he was	directed  to  removehimself ".In reaching his conclusion the learned single Judge observedthat  the legislature had used the present participle "	 hasbeen " and not the past participle in the opening portion ofthe  section, and that this indicated that the	section	 wasintended  to  be  used only where  a  person  was  convictedsubsequent to the coming into force of the Act.	 He  furtherobserved   that	 being	a  penal  section,  it	had  to	  beinterpreted  prospectively.  He repelled an argument of	 theAssistant30Government   Pleader  that  s.	57  merely  re-enacted	 theprovisions of s. 27 of the City of Bombay Police Act,  1902,and  that  a  liability incurred under	the  older  Act	 waspreserved  by  s.  167 of the Bombay  Police  Act  of  1951.Observing further that the Deputy Commissioner of Police  atthe  time of the passing of the order could not be  said  tohave  entertained  a belief about the activities  of  VishnuRamchandra  based upon his conviction in the year  1949,  heheld  that  the	 order of externment  must  be	regarded  asinvalid	 for  that reason and also on the  ground  that	 theconviction was not after the coming into force of the Act.At   the   hearing  before  us,	 the  respondent   was	 notrepresented.   We  have heard Mr. Dhebar in support  of	 theappeal, and, in our opinion, the High Court was not right inthe  view  it had taken of s. 57 of the Act.   The  questionwhether	 an enactment is meant to operate  prospectively  orretrospectively	 has to be decided in accordance with  well-settled principles.  The cardinal principle is that statutesmust   always  be  interpreted	prospectively,	unless	 thelanguage  of the statutes makes them  retrospective,  eitherexpressly or by necessary implication.	Penal statutes whichcreate	new  offences  are  always  prospective,  but  penalstatutes   which  create  disabilities,	 though	  ordinarilyinterpreted   prospectively,   are   sometimes	 interpretedretrospectively	 when there is a clear intendment that	theyare  to	 be applied to past events.  The reason	 why  penalstatutes  are  so construed was stated by Erle,	 C.  J.,  inMidland Rly.  Co. v. Pye (1) in the following words:"Those whose duty it is to administer the law very  properlyguard against giving to an Act of Parliament a retrospectiveoperation,  unless the intention of the legislature that  itshould	be  so construed is expressed in  clear,  plain	 andunambiguous  language;	because it manifestly  shocks  one'ssense of justice that an act, legal at the time of doing it,should be made unlawful by some new enactment ".This  principle has now been recognised by our	Constitutionand   established   as	a  Constitutional   restriction	  onlegislative power.(1)  10 C.B. (N.S.) 179, 191.31There are, however, statutes which create Do new punishment,but  authorise some action based on past conduct.   To	suchstatutes,  if  expressed in language  showing  retrospectiveoperation, the principle is not applied.  As Lord Coleridge,C.  J.,	 observed during the course of arguments in  Rex  v.Birthwhistle (1):" Scores of Acts are retrospective, and may without  expresswords be taken to be retrospective, since they are passed tosupply	a  cure to an existing evil." Indeed, in  that	casewhich arose under the Married Women (Maintenance in Case  ofDesertion) Act, 1886, the Act was held retrospective withoutexpress words.	It was said:" It was intended to cure an existing evil and to afford  tomarried women a remedy for desertion, whether such desertiontook place before the passing of the Act or not."Another principle which also applies is that an Act designedto  protect the public against acts of a  harmful  charactermay  be	 construed retrospectively, if the  language  admitssuch  an interpretation, even though it may equally  have  aprospective meaning.  In Queen v. Vine (2), which dealt withthe disqualification of persons selling spirits by retail ifconvicted of felony, the Act was applied retrospectively  topersons	 who  were  convicted  before  the  Act	 came	intooperation.  Cock burn, C. J., observed:-"If  one  could	 see  some  reason  for	 thinking  that	 theintention  of  this enactment was merely  to  aggravate	 thepunishment  for felony by imposing this disqualification  inaddition, I should feel the force of Mr. Poland's  argument,founded	 on  the  rule	which  has  obtained  in  putting  aconstruction upon statutes that when they are penal in theirnature they are not to be construed retrospectively, if	 thelanguage is capable of having a prospective effect given  toit  and'  is not necessarily retrospective.   But  here	 theobject	of the enactment is not to punish offenders, but  toprotect	 the public against public houses in  which  spiritsare retailed being kept by persons of doubtful character ...On looking at the Act, the words used seem (1) (1889) 58 L.J. (N.S.) M.C. 158.  (2) [1875] 10 Q.B. 195.32to  import  the	 intention to  protect	the  public  againstpersons	 convicted  in the past as well as  in	future;	 thewords are in effect equivalent to 'every convicted felon'."In   the  same	case,  Archibald,  J.,	 expressed   himselfforcefully when he observed:-"  I quite agree, if it were simply a penal enactment,	thatwe  ought not to give it a retrospective operation ; but  itis an enactment with regard to public and social order,	 andinfliction of penalties is merely collateral."Similarly, in Ex Parte Pratt (1), which dealt with the words"  a  debtor commits an act of bankruptcy "  to	 enable	 theCourt  to  make a receiving order, Cotton, L. J.,  gave	 thewords a retrospective operation, observing:--"  I  think that no reliance can be placed on  the  words  Icommits'  as showing that only acts of bankruptcy  committedafter the Act came into operation are intended."In the same case, the observations of Bowen, L. J., were:-" I think that the more the Act is studied the more it	willbe found that it is framed in a very peculiar way.  I do notmean to say that it is inartistically framed.  I think it isframed	on  the	 idea  that  a	bankruptcy  code  is   beingconstructed, and when the present tense is used, it is used,not in relation to time, but as the present tense of logic."Fry, L. J., added :-"  I entirely agree with Bowen, L. J., as to the meaning  ofthe  present tense in the section ; it is used, I think,  toexpress a hypothesis, without regard to time."In Bourke v. Nutt (2), Lord Esher, M. R., speaking of  theseobservations of Bowen and Fry, LL.  J., observed :-" ... the case seems to show that when the present tense  isused in this statute (s. 32 of the Bankruptcy Act, 1883) thetime to be considered is the time at(1) [1884] 112 Q.B. 334.(2) [1894] I Q.B. 725.33which  the Court has to act, and not the time at  which	 thecondition  of  things  on  which it has	 to  act  came	intoexistence."Applying the above principles, Lord Esher, M. R., held	thatthe  section was not retrospective but prospective,  becausethe important time was that at which it had to be consideredwhether the person was disqualified and it related to a timeafter  the  passing of the Act.	 He, however, added  that  "even  if  it  could be said that  it  is  retrospective	 itsenactments  are solely for the public benefit, and the	rulethat  restricts	 the  operation	 of  a	penal  retrospectivestatute does not apply, because this statute is not penal." These	principles, though not unanimously  expressed,	havebeen  accepted in later cases both in England and in  India.In  Ganesan  v.	 A. K. Joscelyne (1),  Chakravarti,  C.	 J.,observed, Sarkar, J. (as he then was), concurring:-" I may state, however, that in spite of the ordinary and  Imight	almost	say  cardinal  rule  of	 construction	thatstatutes, particularly statutes creating liabilities,  oughtnot  to	 be so construed as to given  them  a  retrospectiveoperation  unless there is a clear provision to that  effector  a necessary intendment implied in the provisions,  thereis  another principle on which Courts have sometimes  acted.It  has been held that where the object of an Act is not  toinflict punishment on anyone but to protect the public	fromundesirable  persons, bearing the stigma of a conviction  ormisconduct   on	 their	character,  the	 ordinary  rule	  ofconstruction need not be strictly applied."In  Taher  Saifuddin  v.  Tyebbhai  Moosaji  (2),  the	sameprinciples  were applied by Chagla, C. J. and  Bhagwati,  J.(as  he then was), and reference was made also to The  Queenv.  Inhabitants	 of  St. Mary  Whitechapel  (3)	 where	LordDenman, C. J., in his judgment observed:-"  ...	it was said that the operation of  the	statute	 wasconfined to persons who had become widows after (1) A.1 R. 1957 Cal. 33,38. (2) A.I.R. 1953 Bom. 183, z86, 187.(3) [1848) 12 Q.B. 120 (B): 116 E.R. 811.34the   Act  passed,  and	 that  the  presumption	 against   aretrospective	statute	  being	 intended   supported	thisconstruction;  but we have before shown that the statute  isin its direct operation prospective, as it relates to futureremovals  only,	 and  that  it	is  not	 properly  called  aretrospective  statute because a part of the requisites	 forits action is drawn from time antecedent to its passing."Now s. 57 of the Bombay Police Act, 1951, does not create  anew  offence  nor  makes punishable that which	was  not  anoffence.   It  is designed to protect the  public  from	 theactivities of undesirable persons who have been convicted ofoffences of a particular kind.	The section only enables theauthorities  to	 take note of their convictions and  to	 putthem  outside  the  area of their activities,  so  that	 thepublic	may  be	 protected  against  a	repetition  of	suchactivities.  As observed by Phillimore, J., in Rex v. Austin(1),"No man has such a vested right in his past crimes and theirconsequences  as  would entitle him to insist  that in	nofuture	legislation shall any regard whatever be had to	 hisprevious history."An offender who has been punished may be restrained in	his-acts  and conduct by some legislation, which takes  note  ofhis antecedents; but so long as the action taken against himis  after  the Act comes into force, the statute  cannot  besaid to be applied retrospectively.  The Act in question wasthus not applied retrospectively but prospectively.It  remains only to consider if the language of the  sectionbars  an  action based on past actions before  the  Act	 waspassed.	  The  verb  "has been" is in  the  present  perfecttense, and may mean either " shall have been " or " shall be".  Looking,  however, to the scheme of the enactment  as  awhole  and  particularly  the other portions of	 it,  it  ismanifest  that the former meaning is intended.	The  verb  "has  been  "  describes past actions,  and,  to	 borrow	 thelanguage  of Fry, L.J., in Ex Parte Pratt (2), " is used  toexpress a hypothesis, without regard to time ".An externment order, however, to satisfy the(1) [1913] 1 K.B. 551, 556.(2) [1884] 12 Q.B- 334-35requirements of s. 57 of the Bombay Police Act, must be madebona  fide,  taking  into  account  a  conviction  which  issufficiently proximate in time.	 Since no absolute rule	 canbe laid down, each case must depend on its own facts.In  the	 result, we set aside the acquittal, and  remit	 thecase  to  the High Court for disposal on  the  other  pointsurged  before it and in the light of observations made	hereby us.Appeal allowed.