PETITIONER:EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS (PRIVATE) LTD.,AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS(and connected petitions and apDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/01/1958BENCH:ACT:Working	 journalists-Regulation	 of Conditions	of  Service-Constitutionl  validity of enactment-Decision of Wage  Boardfixing	  rates	  of   wages-Validity-Working	 journalists(Conditions  of Service) and Miscellaneous Pro visions	Act,1955 (45 of 1955), SS. 3(2), 4. 5(1) (a)(iii), 9(1), 11, 12,17,   20(d)(2)-Constitution  of	 India,	 Arts.	19(1)	(a),19(1)(g), 14, 32.HEADNOTE:These	 petitions   on	  behalf   of	certain	   newspaperestablishments challenged the constitutional validity of theWorking	   journalists	 (Conditions   of    Service)	 andMiscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955, and the legality of	 thedecision   of  the  Wage  Board,   constituted	 thereunder,purporting to act under s. 9 of the Act.  The impugned	Act,which  was passed in order to implement the  recommendationsof  the	 Press	Commission  and	 had  for  its	object	 theregulation   of	 the  conditions  of  service	of   workingjournalists   and  other  persons  employed   in   newspaperestablishments,	 provided,  inter alia, for the	 payment  ofgratuity to a working journalist who had been in  continuousservice,  whether  before or after the commencement  of	 theAct, for not less than three years, even when he voluntarilyresigned  from service, regulated hours of work	 and  leave,provided  for the payment of retrenchment compensation	withretrospective  effect in certain cases and by s.  9(1)	laiddown  the  principles that the Wage Board was to  follow  infixing	the  rates of wages of working	journalists.   Underthose  principles the Wage Board was to have regard  to	 thecost of living, the prevalent rates of wages for  comparableemployments,  the  circumstances relating to  the  newspaperindustry  in  different regions of the country	and  to	 anyother  circumstances which it might consider relevant.	 Thepetitioners contended on various grounds that the provisionsof the impugned Act violated their fundamental rights  underArts. 19(1)(a), 19(1)(g), 14 and 32 Of the Constitution	 andthat  the  decision of the Wage Board fixing the  rates	 andscales	 of  wages,  which  was	 arrived  at   without	 anyconsideration whatsoever as to the capacity of the newspaperindustry  to  pay the same, imposed too	 heavy	a  financialburden	on  the	 industry and spelled its  total  ruin,	 wasvitiated  by  a wrong approach and  non-application  of	 theproper	criteria and transgressed the principles of  naturaljustice and was, therefore, illegal and void:Held, that the constitutional validity of the impugned	Act,with the sole exception of s. 5(1)(a)(iii) of the Act  whichinfringed13Art.  19(1)(g) of the Constitution, was beyond question	 andas  that section, severable as it was from the rest  of	 theAct, must alone be declared ultra vires.Section 9(1) of the Act, properly construed, made it  incum-bent  on  the  Wage Board to  take  into  consideration	 thecapacity  of  the newspaper industry to pay  the  rates	 andscales	of wages recommended by it and as there was  nothingto  indicate that it bad done so, its decision was void	 andinoperative.Held, further, that there could be no doubt, in view of	 theinterpretation put upon Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution bythis Court, that liberty of the press was an essential	partof  the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by	thatArticle	 and  the  press had thereunder the  right  of	freepropagation  and  free	circulation  without  any   previousrestraint on publication.Ramesh Thaper v. The State of Madras, [1950] S.C.R. 594	 andBrij  Bhushan  v.  The State of Delhi,	[1950]	S.C.R.	605,referred to.It was legitimate and proper to refer in this connection  tothe  decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States  ofAmerica,  since Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution was  basedon Amendment 1 of the Constitution of that country, and	 therules  that  could be deduced therefrom made it	 clear	thatalthough   freedom  of	the  press  included  freedom	fromrestriction in respect of employment in the editorial staff,the press was not immune from ordinary forms of taxation  orfrom the application of general laws relating to  industrialrelations or laws regulating payment of wages.Case law reviewed.But  if	 a  law	 were to single out  the  press	 for  layingprohibitive   burdens	on  it	that  would   restrict	 thecirculation, penalise its freedom of choice as to personnel,prevent	 newspapers from being started and compel the  pressto  seek  Government  aid, it would  be	 violative  of	Art.19(1)(a)  and would fall outside the protection afforded  byArt. 19(2) of the Constitution.The  impugned Act, judged by its provisions, was not such  alaw  but was a beneficent legislation intended	to  regulatethe conditions of service of the working journalists and theconsequences   aforesaid  could	 not  be  the	direct	 andinevitable  result of it.  Although there could be no  doubtthat  it  directly affected the press and fell	outside	 thecategories of protection mentioned in Art. 19(2), it had notthe effect of taking away or abridging the freedom of speechand  expression of the petitioners and did  not,  therefore,infringe Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.A.K.  Gopalan v. The State of Madras, [1950] S.C.R. 88,	 RamSingh v. The State of Delhi, [1951] S.C.R. 45I Minnesota  ExRel.  Olson,  (1930)  283  U.S. 697 ; 75  L.  Ed.  1357	 andDwarkadas Shrinivas of Bombay  v. The Sholapur Spinning	 andWeaving Co., Ltd., [1954] S.C.R. 674, considered.14 Nor could the impugned Act be held to be violative of	Art.19(1)(g) of the Constitution in view of the test of  reason-ableness laid down by this Court.Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1950]  S.C.R.759, The State of Madras v. V. G. Rao, [1952] S.C.R. 597,  aState  of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose, [1954] S. C.  R.587  and  Virendra v. State of Punjab,	[1958]	S.C.R.	308,referred to.It  was not correct to say that s. 9(i) of the Act  did	 notlay down the relevant criteria for the fixation of rates  ofwages.	 On a true construction of that section it  must  beheld  that  the criterion of prevalent rates  of  wages	 forcomparable  employment	could be consistent  only  with	 thewages higher than the bare subsistence or minimum wages and,since rates of wages must be held to include scales of wagesas  well, it was essential that the Wage Board	should	takeinto consideration the capacity of the newspaper industry topay  before it could fix the rates of wages.   Although	 theAct  did  not specifically say so, it was possible  to	holdthat  the third criterion laid down by the section,  namely,the  circumstances  relating to the  newspaper	industry  indifferent   regions   of  the  country,	 included   such   aconsideration.	 The  provisions of the	 section  were	not,therefore,  unreasonable and violative of Art.	19(1)(g)  ofthe Constitution.The  provisions of s. 9(1) of the impugned Act did not	vestuncontrolled power in the Wage Board.  The last criterion ofthat  section  which  empowered	 the  Board  to	 take	intoconsideration  any other circumstances that it	might  thinkrelevant,  must	 be  read ejusdem  generis  with  the  othercriteria  that	preceded  it  and as  they  laid  down	withsufficient clarity and particularity the principles for	 theguidance  of  the  Board,  the	Legislature  was   perfectlyjustified  in leaving such considerations as might arise  incourse of the enquiry to the subjective satisfaction of	 theBoard	constituted,   as  it  was,  of	 equal	 number	  ofrepresentatives of both the employers and employees.Thakur Raghbir Singh v. Court of Wards, Ajmer, [1953] S.C.R.1049, considered.It  was not correct to say, having regard to the  provisionsof ss. 11 and 20(2)(d) of the impugned Act, that the Act didnot  lay down any procedure for the Board to follow or	thatit  was open to the Board to follow any arbitrary  procedureviolating the principles of natural justice.There  could be no substance in the contention of the  peti-tioners that the provisions of the impugned Act relating  toproofreaders,  whom  it included within	 the  definition  ofworking	 journalists,  period  of  notice  under  s.   3(2),retrospective operation in cases specified by s. 4 and hoursof   work,  imposed  unreasonable  restrictions	  on   theirfundamental right to carry on business.Gratuity,  however,  was a reward for  good,  efficient	 andfaithful  service  rendered for a  considerable	 period	 andthere could be15no  justification  for awarding the same  when	an  employeevoluntarily   resigned,	  except  in   certain	 exceptionalcircumstances.	 The  award of -gratuity, therefore,  to  anemployee  who  voluntarily  resigned from  service  after  aperiod	of  only three years, under s. 5(1)(a)(iii)  of	 theAct, must be held to be unreasonable and wholly unjustified.The impugned Act was not discriminatory in character and didnot   violate	Art.  14  of  the   Constitution.    Workingjournalists formed a separate class by themselves and  couldbe classified apart from the rest of the newspaper employeeson  a perfectly intelligible differentia rationally  relatedto  the	 object which the Act had in view.   Nor  could	 theprovisions  of either s. 12 or s. 17 of the Act,  therefore,be said to be discriminatory in character.Budhan Choudhary v. The State of Bihar, [1955] 1 S.C.R.1045, applied.The impugned Act contained no prohibition nor did it in	 anyway  prevent  the  Wage Board from giving  reasons  for	 itsdecision and thus passing a speaking order where it chose todo so, and it could not, therefore,-be said to have violatedthe fundamental right of a citizen to move the Supreme Courtfor a writ of certiorari under Art. 32 of the Constitution.Rex  v. Northumberland Com. Appeal Tribunal, Ex Parte  Shaw,[1951]	1 K. B. 711 and Rex v.	Northumberland	CompensationAppeal	Tribunal,  Ex Parte Shaw, [1952] 1 K. B.  338,	heldinapplicable.A.K.  Gopalan  v.  The State of Madras,	 [1950]	 S.C.R.	 88,relied on.The  question  whether	a  particular  body  was  exercisinglegislative,  administrative or judicial or  quasi  judicialfunctions  has to be determined in the light of the  statuteunder  which it was constituted and an	administrative	bodyfunctioning  as such can also be acting in a  quasi-judicialcapacity.   The	 test would be whether it had to  decide  onevidence  and decide judicially.  So judged, there could  beno  doubt  that the Wage Board under the  impugned  Act	 wasfunctioning in a quasi-judicial capacity.Nagendra  Nath	Bora v. Commissioner of Hills  Division	 andAppeals, Assam, [1958] S.C.R. 1240, referred to.Case-law reviewed.Although this Court would not normally enter into  questionsof  fact, in this case the Wage Board had wholly ignored  anessential  condition  for the exercise of its  function	 andimposed	 a  very  heavy financial burden  on  the  newspaperindustry.   Although  the Classification  of  the  newspaperindustry on the basis of grossrevenue, fixation of scales ofwages,	 provisions  as	 to  the,  hours  of  work,   leave,retrospective operation in specified cases, and grouping  ofnewspapers  into chains or multiple units could not be	saidto be improper or unjustified, they made the burden  heavierstill.16The  Board made no enquiry whatsoever as to the	 ability  ofthe industry to pay either as a whole or region-wise and didnot  call  for	or hear	 representations  from	them  beforefinalising its decision.  Its decision was, therefore, ultravires  the  Act and contrary to the  principles	 of  naturaljustice.ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 91, 99, 100, 101,	 103JUDGMENT:Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental Rights.			    AND&CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 699-703  of1957.Appeals by special leave from the decision of the Wage Boardfor  Working Journalists published in the Gazette  of  IndiaExtraordinary (Part IT, Section 3) dated May 11, 1957.1957.	Dec.  3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17,  18,  19,	 20.1958.  Jan. 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 28.M.   K.	 Nambiar and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the	 petitionersin  Petition No. 91 of 1957. -The Working  Journalists	Act,1955, is ultra vires as it infringes the fundamental  rightsof  the	 Petitioners guaranteed by  the	 Constitution  underArts. 19 (1) (a), 19 (1) (g), 14 and 32. Article 19 (1)	 (a)which  guarantees freedom of speech and expression  includesthe  freedom  of the employment of means to  exercise  thoserights	and  consequently  comprehends the  freedom  of	 thePress.	 The guarantee of an abstract freedom of  expressionwould be meaningless unless it contemplated and included  inits  ambit  all	 the  means  necessary	for  the   practicalapplication   of  the  freedom.	 (Freedom  of  the   Press-AFramework of Principles-Report of the Commission on  Freedomof  Press in the United States of America, 1947;  Report  ofthe  Royal  Commission for the Press in the  United  Kingdom1949; Ramesh Thapar v. The State of Madras, [1950] S. C.  R.594; Brij Bhusan v. State of Delhi, [1950] S. C. R. 605;  Exparte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727; Lovell v, City of Griffin,	 303U.  S. 444; Orosjean v. American Press Co., 80 L;  Ed.	660;Schneider v. Irvington, 84 L. Ed. 155.17Constitution  of the United States of America,	Revised	 andAnnotated  (1952),  U. S. Govt.	 Printing  Office  pp.	792,988).	If  the impugned Act is viewed as a  whole  it	willappear that it authorised the fixation of salary of  workingjournalists  at	 a level which disables the running  of	 thepress.	 The  impugned	Act  thus,  impedes,  controls	 andprohibits the free employment of the agencies of  expressionon that section of the Press which form its vocal chord	 andtherefore  the Act infringes the freedom contemplated  underArt. 19 (1) (a) and is not saved by Art. 19 (2).  In judgingthe  validity  of  the enactment it must be  tested  by	 itsoperation  and effect (Dwarkadas Srinivas of Bombay  v.	 TheSholapur Spinning and Weaving Co. Ltd., [1954] S. C. R. 674,683; Minnesota Ex Rel.	Olson, 75 L. Ed. 1357).The  Act also violates the right guaranteed by Art.  19	 (1)(g) of the Constitution as it places unreasonable  restrainton the petitioners' freedom to carry on business  (ChintamanRao  v.	 The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1950] S. C.  R.	759;cited  with  approval in Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain  v.	 TheState  of Uttar Pradesh, [1954] S. C. R. 803 and  Ch.	TikaRamjidas v. State of U. P. [1956] S. C. R. 393; The State ofMadras v. V. G. Row, [1952] S. C. R. 597, 606-607; The Stateof West Bengal v.   Subodh  Gopal  Bose, [1954] S.  (C.	  R.587; Virendra v.    State  of  Punjab, A. 1. R. 1957  S.  C.896).	The law imposing restrictions on fundamental  rightsmust  be reasonable not only in its substantive content	 butin its procedural content as well (Dr.	N. B. Khare v. Stateof Delhi, [1950] S. C. R. 519; Ourbachan v. State of Punjab,[1952]	S.  C.	R.  737).  The	relevant  criteria  for	 thefixation of wages were not laid down in s. 9 (1) of the Act.The criteria for the fixation of wages laid down in the	 Actwere only relevant for fixing minimum rates of wages, thoughthe  word  "  minimum"	used  in the  Bill  13	of  1955  asintroduced  in	the  Rajya Sabha  was  subsequently  droppedbefore	the Bill became the Act.  It was not made  incumbenton  the Wage Board to consider the capacity of	industry  topay as an essential criterion or a major factor in318fixing	wages.	The other circumstances, viz., "  any  othercircumstances  which  to  the  Board  may  seem	 relevant  "mentioned  in s. 9 (1) of the Act was left to be  determinedby the Board on its subjective satisfaction which could	 notbe controlled by any higher authority.	The Act thus enablesthe Board to exercise arbitrary powers in regard to the sameand that is unreasonable by itself (Thakur Raghbir Singh  v.Court of Wards, Ajmer, [1953] S. C. R. 1049; R. M.  Seshadriv.  District  Magistrate, Tanjore, [1955] 1 S. C.  R.  686).The procedure to be followed by the Wage Board was not	laiddown in the Act (c. f. The Bombay Industrial Relations	Act,1946, as amended) and it Was open to the Board to follow anyarbitrary  procedure  disregarding  the	 principle  of	audialteration parted and as such the Act is unreasonable.	 TheWage  Board  was not exercising	 legislative  functions	 butfunctions,  which  were quasi-judicial	in  character.	 Theintention  of  the Legislature was to  assimilate  the	WageBoard  as  much	 as  possible  to  an  Industrial   Tribunalconstituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.  If  itis held that s. 11 of the Act is an enabling provision,	 andgave the Board the arbitrary discretion whether to  exercisethe  same  powers  and	follow	the  same  procedure  of  anIndustrial  Tribunal  or  any  procedure  it  liked,  it  isunreasonable.The  provisions of ss. 2 (f), 3, 4, 5, 8 to 11, 12,  14,  15and  17 place restraints on newspaper  establishments  whichwould  have  the effect of destroying the  business  of	 thepetitioners.  The right to impose restrictions on the  rightto carry on business under Art. 19 (6) conferred no power onthe  Legislature  to destroy the business itself  (Stone  v.Farmers	 Loan  and  Trust  Co., 29  L.	Ed.  636;  MunicipalCorporation of the City of Toronto, v. Virgo, 1896 A. C. 88;A.  G.,for Ontario v. A. G. for the Dominion, [1896]  A.  C.348).The Act is discriminatory in character and violates Art.  14of  the	 Constitution.	It gives the working  journalists  amore  favoured treatment as compared to other  employees  inseveral	 ways,	statutory benefits by ,way  of	retrenchmentcompensation, gratuity, limitation of the hours of work	 andleave, not enjoyed by19others	in comparable employments.  It is restricted in	 itsscope to a selected section of newspaper employees. it givesthem the benefit of the wage fixation by devising  machineryin the form of a Pay Commission without the existence of anyindustrial dispute, without prescribing the major  criterionof   capacity  to  pay	to  be	taken  into   consideration;(Britannia  Bldg. and Iron Co. Ltd., (1954) 1 L. L. J.	651,654; Union Drug Co. Ltd., (1954) 1 L. L. J. 766, 767; Reportof the Committee on Fair Wages, pp. 13-15, paras. 21, 23 and24); or following the procedure prescribed by the IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947, even in disregard of principles of	audialteram	  partem.    The   employers   of   the	   newspaperestablishments are subjected to discriminatory treatment  bythe  Act  in that (1) they are singled out  from  all  otherindustrial  employers  who are covered by the  ordinary	 lawregulating   industrial	 relations  under   the	  IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947 ; (ii) they have been saddled  with	 newburdens	 in regard to a section of their workers in  mattersof gratuity, compensation, hours of work and wages; (iii) s.12  of the Act makes the decision of the Wage Board  bindingonly on the employers and not on the employees and(iv) s. 17provides for recovery of money from employers	  only	 andnot  from employees in the same manner as an arrear of	landrevenue.The classification made by the impugned Act is arbitrary andunreasonable in so far as it removes the newspaper employersvis-a-vis the working journalists from the general operationof the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.The  right  to apply to Supreme Court for enforcement  of  afundamental  right  under Art. 32 is  itself  a	 fundamentalright  guaranteed by the Constitution (Ramesh Thapar V.	 TheState  of Madras, [1950] S. C. R. 594, 597).  The  right  toclaim  a writ of certiorari against a decision is  dependenton  the fact that the impugned decision on its face is	a  "speaking order ". (Rex v. Northumberland Compensation AppealTribunal,  Ex parte Shaw, [1951] 1 K. B. 71 1,	affirmed  bythe Court of Appeal in [1952] 1 K. B. 338 ; A. K. Gopalan v.The State of Madras, [1950] S. C. R. 88, 243).	The Act20contravenes Art. 32 of the Constitution because it does	 notprovide	 for giving any reasons for the decision to be	madeby the Wage Board.Decision  of the Wage Board is illegal and void because	 (1)the  Act under which it is made was ultra vires (Mohd  Yasinv.  Town Area Committee of Jalalabad, [1952] S. C.  R.	572;Himatalal  Harilal Mehta v. State of U. P., [1954]  S.	C.R.1122);	(ii) the decision itself infringes  the	 fundamentalrights	of  the	 petitioners (Bidi Supply Co.  v.  Union  ofIndia,	[1956] S. C. R 267 and (iii) the decision  is  ultravires  the Act) Pandit Ram Narain v. State of U. P.,  [1956]S.  C.	R. 664).  The reconstitution of the  Board  oil	 theretirement  of	one  of	 its members  was  ultra  vires	 andunauthorised  by the Act as it stood at the time, the  Ruleshaving been published on July 10, 1956.	 The procedure as todecision  by majority is not warranted by the Act,  and	 theRule  which sanctioned such a procedure is ultra  vires	 theAct.   The  procedure  followed by the	Board  offended	 theprinciples of natural justice and is therefore invalid.	  Itdid not follow the procedure of ail Industrial Tribunal eventhough	on two occasions, viz., when the  questionnaire	 wasissued	and when a number of newspapers failed to  reply  tothe questionnaire, the Board asserted that it had the powersof an Industrial Tribunal.  Neither in the questionnaire norat any time thereafter were concrete proposals submitted  bythe Board to the newspaper establishments.  Its decision  isinvalid as no reasons are given for it nor does it  indicatewhat considerations prevailed with the Board in arriving  atit.The  classification  of	 newspapers on the  basis  of  grossrevenue	 is contrary to the provisions of the Act.   In	 thegross  revenue which is earned by  newspaper  establishmentsadvertisement revenue ordinarily forms a large bulk of	suchrevenue	 and unless the proportion of advertisement  revenueto the gross revenue were taken into consideration it  wouldnot be possible to form a correct estimate of the  financialstatus	of  a  newspaper establishment with a  view  to	 itsclassification.	 Profit and loss of newspaper  establishmentshould. be the proper test and if that21test were adopted it would give an altogether differentpicture.Until now whenever the wage had to be fixed for an  industrythe  relevant consideration had always been the capacity  ofthe  industry  to pay.	The wages which are  normally  fixedafter  a general inquiry' applicable to the  whole  industryhave always been minimum wages.	 Assessment of a wage  leveland scale only by reference to gross revenue was erroneous.The decision suffers from another major defect in  computinggross  revenue not for each newspaper but  collectively	 forthe Organization which might be running a number of  papers.The  result  of	 this  mode  of	 calculation  was  that	  anorganisation publishing a large number of papers might	wellfall  within  the top class by virtue of its  gross  revenuealthough each one of the papers taken individually might  berunning at a loss.  This process of considering the multipleunits  or  a chain of newspapers as  one  establishment	 hasaffected  the petitioners adversely and is  unauthorised  bythe  Act.  The Wage Board was not authorised by the  Act  tofix  the  wages of working journalists in  relation  to	 thewhole industry but could do so only in respect of individualestablishments	as  will appear from the definition of	a  "newspaper  establishment " given in s. 2(d) of the Act.	  Anestablishment  can only mean " an establishment " and not  agroup of them, even though such an individual  establishmentmay produce or publish one or more newspapers. (Pravat Kumarv.  W. T. C. Parker, A. 1. R. 1950 Cal. 116, 118; S.  R.  V.Service Co. Ltd. v. State of Madras,A.	1. R. 1956 Mad. 115,121-122).The  decision  of the Wage Board is illegal as it  does	 notdisclose  that	the  capacity  to  pay	of  the	  individualestablishment  was ever taken into consideration.  There  isnothing	 on record to suggest that both as regard  rates  ofwages  and the scales of pay the Wage Board ever  took	intoaccount	 as to what the impact of its decision would  be  onthe  capacity  of the industry to pay either as a  whole  orregion-wise.  Even as regards the fixation of wages the WageBoard does22not seem to have taken into account the other provisions  ofthe  Act which conferred upon the working journalists  otherbenefits  which	 would	affect the paying  capacity  of	 thenewspaper    establishments.	Furthermore   the    workingJournalists constitute only 1/5 of the total staff  employedby  various newspaper establishments.  If the conditions  ofservice	 of working journalists were to be improved  by	 theWage Board the other employees who form 85% were bound to berestive	  and  likely  to  raise  industrial  disputes	 forbetterment  of	their  conditions of  service.	 This  wouldimpose	an  additional	financial burden  on  the  newspaperestablishments and would substantially affect their capacityto pay.	 The retrospective operation of the decision of	 theWage Board was also calculated to impose financial burden onthe newspaper establishments.The  Wage Board exceeded its power in  giving  retrospectiveoperation  to  its  decision.	The  Wage  Board  had  actedillegally  in  fixing scales of pay for a  period  of  threeyears when the Act does not give it such authority.  Furtherthe  Wage Board was handicapped for want of Cost  of  LivingIndex.K.   M.	 Munshi, L. K. Jha, S. S. Shukla,  Balbhadra  PrasadSinha and R. J. Joshi, for the petitioners in Petitions Nos.99  to	101  of	 1957.	 The  freedom  of  the	Press  is  afundamental personal right of the petitioners.	It rests  onthe  assumption	 that the widest possible  dissemination  ofinformation   from  diverse  and  antagonistic	sources	  isessential to the welfare of the public.	 Such freedom is thefoundation  of	a  free	 government and	 as  such  enjoys  apreferential  position among the constitutional	 guarantees.This is a " preferred right ".The  purpose of the constitutional guarantee of free  speechis   to	  prevent  public  authority   from   assuming	 theguardianship  of the public mind (Thomas v. Collins,  89  L.Ed. 430; The Supreme Court and the right of Free Speech	 andPress-Annotation  in  93  L.  Ed.  1151	 ;  Beauhairnais  v.Illinois,  96 L. Ed. 919, 943dissenting opinion of  Douglas,J.). While the Press enjoys no immunity from the applicationof the general laws relating to industrial relations, an Actor any23of its provision would violate the right of free speech	 andexpression  if it lays a direct and preferential  burden  onthe  freedom of the Press ; if it has a tendency to  curtailcirculation  and thereby narrow the scope  of  disseminatinginformation;  if  it  fetters the  petitioners'	 freedom  tochoose	the means of exercising' their right to	 freedom  ofexpression and if it is likely to undermine the independenceof  the	 Press by having to seek Government  aid.   The	 Actsingles	 out the Press for levying upon it a  direct  burdenwhich is excessive and so restrictive as to be	prohibitive.It  begets a class of workers whose benefits and rights	 aregiven  a preferential enforceability parallel to that  of  apublic debt.  The impugned Act by s. 9 leaves, in  violationof  the	 Constitution, the fixation of wages  to  an  agencyinvested  with	arbitrary and uncannily power to  impose  anindeterminate  burden  on the wage structure of	 the  Press,such employer and employee relations at its discretion as itthinks	fit, and such burden and restrictions for such	timeas  it	thinks fit.  The Act and the decision  of  the	WageBoard, which under the Act becomes enforceable as a part  ofit,  have imposed an excessive and prohibitive burden  whichwill  have  a tendency to curtail the revenue  and  restrictcirculation which is the means of imparting information	 andgiving	free expression to speech, impose a penality on	 thepetitioners'  right  to	 choose	 the  instruments  for	 itsexercise  or to seek alternative media of expression,  drivethe  Press  to seek Government aid in order to	survive	 andprevent newspapers from being started.	The Act has  createdan  impossible situation in which the petitioner could	onlysay  "	I  cannot live, I cannot die  and  I  cannot  commitsuicide ". Even if the petitioners were to close down  theirbusiness  and dispose of all their assets they would not  bein a position to meet all the liabilities.The  Constitution  does	 not permit any	 abridgment  of	 thefundamental right of freedom of speech and expression unlessit falls within the categories of restrictions mentioned  inArt.   19(2).	 When  the   permitted	 restrictions	wereincorporated  special care was taken by the framers  of	 theConstitution to see that24freedom	 of speech was protected and that the  right  shouldnot  be at the mercy of the legislature which might want  toimpose excessive burden on the Press.  It is for this reasonthat  the  "  Public interest " restriction  in	 Art.  19(6)appearing against the fundamental right in Art. 19(1)(g)  isnot to be found in Art. 19(2).A distinction has to be  drawnbetween	 the  Constitution of U. S. A. and India.   What  isknown  as  the " due process of law " in  America  has	beenspecifically omitted from the Constitution of India.  In  U.S.  A. the " due process " clause enabled the Supreme  Courtto  read into the Constitution any doctrine  restrictive  ofthe  fundamental  right,  e. g., in the	 1930's	 the  U.  S.Supreme	 Court had held that statutory fixation	 of  minimumwage in the newspaper industry was violation of	 fundamentalrights	of free speech, but after some years the same  Courtacting under the discretion given by the due process  clausetook cognizance of altered circumstances in labour relationsand held that the imposition of a minimum wage on the  Pressdid  not violate the fundamental right (Constitution of	 theUnited	States of America, Revised and Annotated (1952),  U.S.  Govt.   Printing  Office, pp.  792,	 988).	 The  IndianConstitution  does  not	 permit restriction  of	 freedom  ofspeech	except	under  the limitation  set  by	Art.  19(2).Restrictions  that could be held intra vires in	 respect  ofother  industries  would  still be ultra  vires	 under	Art.19(1)(a)  of  the  Constitution	 in  respect  of  the  Pressindustry  because of the special privilege of right of	freespeech.	 Any direct restriction placed by Government on	 thePress  would  be violation of Art. 19(1)(a),  and  thereforeeven  if the Government had sought to impose a minimum	wagefor  the  Press	 by direct legislation it  would  have	beenequally	 unconstitutional.  This illegality, however,  wouldnot attach to the finding of an adjudicatory machinery	suchas was contemplated under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.Where  Government  provided a media for	 the  settlement  ofdisputes  and claims between citizen,,, and  citizens  therewas  no question of any contravention of fundamental  rightswhich were protected against governmental encroachment.25The  various sections of the Act have the effect of  placingrestrictions  on the press which would in evitably have	 theeffect	of restricting the freedom of speech and  expressionin contravention of Art. 19 (1) (a).  The Act has created  aprivileged  class  of working journalists  above  the  otherworkers	 either	 in  this country or  anywhere	also,  abovecontract and above the law of the land.The Wage Board has exceeded its authority and has arrived atconclusions  and  findings which restricts  the	 fundamentalrights	of the petitioners.  The Act authorizes the  CentralGovernment  to constitute a Wage Board for fixing  rates  ofwages.	This does not authorize the Board to enter into	 thewider  question of determination of scales of  pay.   Fixingcould  only mean fixing with reference to a point  of  time.The Legislature did not contemplate that single wage  shoulddetermine  the wage scales, for all time to come  The  wholeframework  of  the  Act was based on minimum  wage  and	 thesudden removal of the word "  minimum " has caused all thesedifficulties.	"  Rates  of wages " and  not  "  scales  ofwages", the Wage Board was to consider.	 The term " rates ofwages  applies only to a particular point of  time.  [Sinha,J.-Section  9  (2) of the Act says that the  Board  may	 fix"rates	of  wages for time work and for piece work  ".	Theycannot have any reference to scales.  The same words in	 thestatute	 mean  the same thing.	They cannot  mean  differentthings in different sections.]Yes.   These words are used again and again in the Act.	  Inthe Minimun Wages Act, the Payment of Wages Act, etc., wherethe same expression " rates of wages " is used to indicate awage fixed in time and amount.	The Wage Board has  exceededits  power in fixing the scales of wages and increments	 andthereby	 places a fetter on the Press, not  contemplated  bythe Act.The   Act   and	 the  Wage  Board   have   disregarded	 allconsiderations	which  according to authority and  law	weregermane to the proper fixation of wages without426placing	 restrictions  on  fundamental	rights.	  Even	 theMinimum	 Wages	Act  provides for  periodical  reviews,	 andproposals for minimum wages should be notified for  invitingthe opinions.The  decision  of  the Wage Board has  been  arrived  at  inviolation  of  the  procedure prescribed by  s.	 11  of	 theimpugned  Act  and  in violation of  the  rules	 of  naturaljustice and is thus illegal.The  Wage  Board has been unreasonable in  basing  wages  onrevenue	 from all sources rather than on the  revenue  whichthe working journalists contributed by their labour.Classification	of  newspapers	on the basis  of  the  grossrevenue of all papers run by an Organisation and fixation ofwages  on such classification has led to results  which	 areabsurd and discriminatory in effect and ignore the principleenunciated by the Act itself.  As an example, take the	caseof  a paper with small circulation in Kutch which is  placedin  a higher category than a paper in Bombay simply  becausethe former is part of a larger Organisation.The Wage Board has not taken care to remain within the termsof the impugned Act, namely, that the wages should be  basedon regional consideration.The Wage Board has given its decision in complete  disregardof  the newspapers' capacity to pay. it did not take  propercare in framing its decision.  Lack of such care in  framingits decision makes it unreasonable and hence restrictive  offundamental rights.The  Wage  Board  has  exceeded	 its  authority	 by   givingretrospective  effect to the wage structure devised  by	 it.This is invalid and ultra vires the Act.Section 12 of the Act creates one-sided obligation by makingdecision  of the Board binding only on the employers.	Suchone  sided  obligation	can be appropriate  when  a  minimumsubsistence  wage is fixed but cannot attach to	 payment  ofwages  at luxury levels.  This unilateral obligation on	 theemployer leaves it open to the journalists to agitate for anincrease  in  wages before an industrial  tribunal,  but  itprecludes the employer from seeking any alteration under anycircumstances.	The Act has provided no machinery27for  a	review	or revision of the wage	 structure  even  ifcircumstances changed.Restrictions  on  fundamental  right to	 do  business  arisebecause the Act and the decision of the Wage Board have	 theeffect,	 firstly, of considerably increasing  the  operatingcost  and, secondly, of fettering the conditions of  serviceor the terms of the contract of service between the employerand the employee.By  disregarding  the disparity in regional  conditions	 theWage  Board  has  discriminated	 between  paper	 and  paper,employer and employer and employee and employee.S.   P. Sinha, Gurbachan Singh, Harbans Singh and R.   Patnaik,for the petitioners in Petition No. 103 of 1957.S.   S. Shukla, for the petitioners in Petitions Nos. 116 to118 of 1957.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and  R.H. Dhebar, for respondent No. I (The Union of India) in	 allthe Petitions.	Before going into the merits of the case  itis  necessary to examine the background and the	 perspectivein  which  the Act was enacted, the  careful  inquiry  whichpreceded its enactment and the conditions which the Act	 wasdesigned  to  meet. (Report of the Press  Commission,  datedJuly  14, 1954; Report of the Inquiry Committee	 constitutedin  1947;  Report  of  the C. P.  and  Berar  Press  InquiryCommittee constituted on March 27, 1948).The  Act does not infringe any of the fundamental rights  ofthe petitioners guaranteed under Arts. 19(J) (a),  19(1)(g),14  and 32 of the Constitution.	 The functions of  the	WageBoard  constituted tinder s. 8 of the Act were not  judicialor quasi-judicial in character; the fixation of the rates ofwages  by  the Wage Board was a legislative act	 and  not  ajudicial  one; the Wage Board arrived at its decision  on  aconsideration  of all the criteria laid down in s.  9(1)  ofthe  Act for fixation of wages and the material as  well  asthe  evidence  placed  before  it; a  large  number  of	 thedecisions of the Wage Board was unanimous; under the Act theWage Board has the power and authority to fix the28scales of wages also and to give retrospective operation  toits decision.  The financial position of the petitioners wasnot  such  as to lead to their collapse as a sequel  to	 theenactment  of the provisions of the Act and the decision  ofthe Wage Board.Regarding  alleged infringement of Art. 19(1)(a),  I  submitthat  the  legislation	should	be  examined  in  order	  todetermine  whether it is legislation directly in respect  tothe  fundamental rights mentioned in the  Constitution.	 Theprinciple   enunciated	by  the	 Supreme  Courtney   severaldecisions  is  that when a legislation is  attacked  on	 theround  of  contravention of a fundamental right,  the  Courtmust  first  examine  whether it  directly  deals  with	 thefundamental  right.  If the legislation is not one  directlywith  respect  to a fundamental right  no  further  questionarises, (A.  K. Gopalan v. The State of Madras, [1950] S. C.R. 88, per Kania, C. J., Ram Singh v. State of Delhi, [1951]S.C.R.	451,  455).   The Supreme Court	 has  also  in	thisconnection  invoked the doctrine of "pith and  substance  ".The  fact  that	 a legislation, directed  in  its  path	 andsubstance to regulate gambling, incidentally placed  certainrestrictions  on  business  was held not  to  make  the	 lawviolative  of  the fundamental right to carry  on  business.(State of Bombay v. R. M. D. Chamarbaugwala, [1957] S. C. R.874).	The  provisions of the Act are clearly	designed  toregulate  the conditions of service of journalists  and	 notthe  freedom  of  expression or	 speech,  and  therefore  noquestion of the infringement of fundamental right under Art.19(1)(a) arises.  The contention of the petitioners based onAmerican  decisions, e. g., Minnesota Ex Rel.  Olson (75  L.Ed. 1357) cannot be sustained.	First, the provisions of theAmerican Constitution are substantially different; secondly,the  American  Courts  have adopted the	 same  view  as	 ourSupreme Court in A. K.	Gopalan	 v.  The  State	 of  Madras,[1950]	S. C. R. 88, and other cases. (The Associated  Pressv.  The National Labour Relations Board, 81 L. Ed.  953,960-966;  Mabee v. White Plains Publishing Co., 90 L.  Ed.	607,613-where  application of U. S. Fair Labour  Standards	Act,1938, to newspaper undertakings was held not to29infringe freedom of speech; Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v.Walling, 90 L. Ed. 614, 621; Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 87  L.Ed. 1292).The  restrictions under Art. 19(6) on the freedom  to  carryoil  business  under  Art. 19(1)(g) will  not  cease  to  bereasonable even if such restrictions resulted in prohibitionof carrying on business in certain cases.  Such restrictionscan  be imposed if they are in the interest of	the  generalpublic.	  Having  regard to the Report of the  Committee  onFair  Wages  appointed by the Government of  India  and	 thepractice  prevailing  in other countries, the  Act  has	 notadopted	 any unusual procedure in constituting a Wage  Boardfor   the  determination  of  rates  of	 wages	of   workingjournalists.   The  Act follows the recommendations  of	 thePress  Commission  for the most part.	The  only  importantdeviation  it has made is that whereas the Press  Commissionhad recommended fixation of a minimum wage, the Act providesfor  fixation of all wages.  Under the directive  principlesof  State Policy (Art. 43 of the Constitution) the goal	 wasnot merely a minimum wage but a fair wage and a living wage.We have to march to that goal.[Gajendragadkar,  J.-True, but in marching to that  goal  wehave to consider the capacity to pay.]Yes,  capacity	to  pay	 region-wise  and  capacity  to	 paycountry-wise  but  not capacity to pay unit-wise,  that	 is,according to each newspaper's capacity.The  Court  has to consider what the  Legislature  intended.The  term  "  minimum  wage"  has  been	 understood  in	 twodifferent  senses, the first being an "	 industrial  minimumwage " and the second a " statutory minimum wage ". Is it an"  industrial minimum ", or is it a " statutory minimum "  ?An " industrial minimum " is a subsistence wage that has  tobe  paid  by any unit if it wishes to exist; a	"  statutoryminimum " is someting more than a subsistence level wage andmay be any level which the Legislature thinks fit to impose.The statutory minimum wage need not be confined to fixing  asingle	determinate amount but can legitimately include	 thefixing of a scale of wage.  " Wages " has been defined30very comprehensively in s. 2(rr) of the Industrial  DisputesAct, 1947, and in the Third and Fourth Schedule to that	 Actwages are stated to include the period and mode of  payment.[Sinha, J. Does it refer to scales ?]Wages include in its ambit the scales.	It was on this basisthat  various Industrial Tribunals have fixed scales.	Eventhe Supreme Court decided that way.[Sinha, J. My point is whether the question has been  raisedand decided or has it been only assumed ?]The  matter,  so  far as I know, has  not  been	 raised	 anddecided.  It has only been assumed."  Wages  "  in ss. 9 and 8 of the Act has been	 used  in  acomprehensive  sense.  The correct approach is to  see	whatthe term " wages " means and to see whether the word " rates" cuts down that meaning.  In order to construe the section.it  will  not  be legitimate to see  what  happened  in	 theLegislature,  what was said in the Bill and how the  word  "Minimum " was dropped.	One of the criteria specified in  s.9(1)  of  the  Act  is the  prevalent  rates  of  wages	 forcomparable  employments.  This has no reference	 to  minimumwage  (Nellimarla  Jute Mills, (1953) 1 L. L. J.  666).	  Itshows  that s. 9(1) contemplates fixation of rates of  wageswhich  are  higher than the bare subsistence  or  industrialminimum wage.  The criterion " the circumstances relating tonewspaper industry in different regions of the country "  ins.  9(1) can have no other meaning than the capacity to	 payregion-wise.   The  discretion given to the  Wage  Board  toconsider  " any other circumstances which to the  Board	 mayseem  relevant"	 is no doubt subjective.  It  is  the  Boardwhich has to decide what is relevant and what is not.	Suchpower  is neither unreasonable nor arbitrary.	The  generalpolicy	with  regard to the Wage Board was  that  they	weregiven  the  widest discretion and there was no	question  oftheir  discretion being fettered.  Even if  the	 Legislatureleft  the fixation of wage to the Board without laying	downany criteria it would have been a competent legislative	 Actbecause of the nature of the31Board.	 In fact, three criteria have been laid down  in  s.9(1)  of  the  Act.   Having  regard  to  the  variety	 andcomplexity  of the matters involved it was not possible	 forthe Legislature itself to visualise or indicate the  variouscircumstances which might be relevant.There is nothing unusual or arbitrary in leaving to the WageBoard a wide discretion in the matter of its procedure.	  InU.  K.	the Central Co-ordinating Committee under  the	WageCouncils  Act, 1945, and the Agricultural Wages Board  underthe Agricultural Wages Regulation Act, 1924, are  authorisedto regulate their own proceedings.  No formal procedure	 hasbeen prescribed for Wage Boards in Australia.The inclusion of proofreaders in the definition of"Working   Journalist"	in  s.	2(1)  of  the  Act  is	 notunreasonable.	 Proof-readers	occupy	a   very   importantposition  in  the editorial staff of a	newspaper  (Kemsley-Manual	of Journalism, p. 337, B. Sen Gupta-Journalism as  aCareer	(1955  Edn.). There is nothing unreasonable  in	 theperiod of notice for retrenchment in s. 3(2)  of  the	Act.(Halsbury's  Laws  of England, 2nd Edn., Vol.  22,  p.	150,para.  249 foot-note (e)).  The retrospective  operation  ofcompensation  in certain cases given by s. 4 of the  Act  isdesigned  to  meet  the few cases  of  retrenchment  by	 themanagement   anticipating   the	  implementation   of	 therecommendation of the Press Commission and cannot be said tobe unreasonable. There is nothing unusual in s. 5 of the Actwhich	  provides  for a gratuity.  Gratuity is  recognisedby  Industrial Tribunals (Ahmedabad  Municipal	Corporation,[1955]	L. A. C. 155, 158; Nundydroog Mines Ltd., [1956]  L.A. C. 265, 267).  Under the law of various countries paymentof  indemnity  to  an employee who  voluntarily	 resigns  isprovided  for (Legislation for Press, Film and Radio in	 theWorld Today (1957) UNESCO publication at p. 404 ; CollectiveAgreement  between  the	 Geneva Press  Association  and	 theGeneva	Union of Newspaper Publishers dated April 1,  1948).Even  in  India	 Labour	 Courts	 have  awarded	gratuity  onvoluntary  resignation (Cipla Ltd., (1955) 11 L. L. J.	355,358; Indian Oxygen and Acetylene Co. Ltd., (1956) 1 L. L. J.435).  The hours of work provided in s. 6 of32the  Act cannot be said to be unreasonable having regard  tothe nature of work to be done by a working journalist.	Suchhours of work are fixed by s. 54 of the Factories Act, 1948,(See also, Mines Act, 1952; Shops and Establishments Acts ofdifferent States in -India).  Sections 8 to II deal with theconstitution of the Wage Board and the fixation of rates  ofwages  by  the Board.  The Wage Board was to consist  of  anequal  number of representatives of employers and  employeesand an independent chairman.  There is nothing	unreasonablein  the constitution of the Board.  The principles  for	 theguidance  of  the Wage Board in the matter  of	fixation  ofwages have been laid down by the Act.  It cannot, therefore,be said that these provisions are unreasonable.	 Section  17of  the	 Act relates only to the mode of recovery  of  moneyfrom  an employer and does not impose any financial  burden;therefore  it  could  not be said  that	 it  infringes	Art.19(1)(g).Article	 14 of the Constitution does not  forbid  reasonableclassification	for  the  purpose  of  legislation   (BudhanChoudhry  v.  The State of Bihar, [1955] 1 S.  C.  R.  1045,1048).	 The work of a journalist is peculiar and demands  ahigh   degree  of  general  education  and  some   kind	  ofspecialised training (Report of the Press Commission,  para.512;  Legislation  for Press, Film and Radio  in  the  WorldToday  (1951)  UNESCO publication at p. 403).	The  workingjournalists  are a class by themselves apart from the  otheremployees of the newspaper establishments and also employeesin  other  industries.	 They can be  singled  out  for	 thepurpose of -ameliorating their conditions of service.  Therewould  be  no  discrimination  if  special.  legislation  isenacted	 for  the  benefit  of	this  class  and  a  specialmachinery  is  created	for fixing the rates  of  its  wagesdifferent from the machinery for other workmen.	 Even if theAct be considered as a social welfare measure the State	 canonly make a beginning somewhere.  Such a measure need not beall  embracing.	 There is nothing unreasonable in s.  12  ofthe Act which makes the decision of the Board binding on theemployers  only.  A provision which has for its	 object	 theprotection of33employees  cannot be said to be repugnant to Art. 14 on	 theground	that it discriminates against the  employers  (SouthBank  Ltd.  v. Pichuthayappan, A. 1. R.	 1954  Madras  377).Section	 17  of the Act is for the benefit  of	the  workingjournalists It enables him to realise the money due from  anemployer under the Act.	 Similar provision is to be found ins.  33C	 of the Industrial Disputes Act.  There	 is  nothingdiscriminatory	in  a provision which governs  employees  inother industries being extended to working journalists.	 Theobject sought to be achieved by the Act is the	ameliorationof  the conditions of service of working  journalists.	 Theclassification is based on intelligible differentiate  whichdistinguish  them  from	 other employees  of  the  newspaperestablishments	 and  also  in	other	industries.    Thesedifferentiae  have a rational basis.  The legislation  amplyfulfils the conditions of permissible classification.It  is " fantastic " to contend that the Act infringes	Art.32 of the Constitution.	 The Act does not prohibit the	WageBoard  from giving a reason for its decision.	No  questiontherefore  arises  of the infringement	of  the	 fundamentalright of the petitioners under Art. 32.Assuming any provision of the Act is void then the  questionwill  be whether it is severable.  If it is  severable	thenthe  whole  Act	 will  not be void  but	 only  the  section.Similarly, if the court finds that the Act is constitutionalbut  a decision of the Wage Board is ultra vires the Act  orunconstitutional  the Court will strike down such  decision.That  will  not affect the validity of the  Act.  (State  ofBombay	v.  F.	N. Balsara, [1951] S. C. R.  682;  State  ofBombay	v. The United Motors (India) Ltd., [1953] S.  C.  R.1069  and  R. M.,D. Chamarbaugwala v. The  Union  of  India,[1957] S. C. R. 930).In  regard to the decisions of the Wage Board the Court	 hasto consider first, whether the decisions are intra vires theAct-since  an  authority to whom the  power  of	 subordinatelegislation is delegated cannot act contrary to the statute,and  secondly, do the decisions being a part of the  Act  inany  way  contravene the Constitution.	These are  the	onlyquestions which34arise  in  regard to the decisions of the  Wage	 Board.	  Noquestion  arises of its procedure being in  accordance	withthe principles of the natural justice nor of the applicationof audi alteram partem.[Bhagwati,  J.-They say it is contrary to the principles  ofnatural justice-audi alteram partem.] That is a maxim about which we have heard so much.  It has,no application to this case of delegated legislation.[Bhagwati,  J.-Can it not be urged, having regard to s.	 11,that the Legislature did not contemplate that the Wage Boardwas to function as delegated authority because it gives	 thechoice	of  the provisions of the  Industrial  Disputes	 Actbeing followed by the Board ?]No,  even for a subordinate legislative authority there	 areprocedures   to	  be  followed	for  arriving	at   certainconclusions.[Kapur, J.-Is it not necessary to hear everybody who may  beaffected  by  the decisions of the Board ?] No  question  of  hearing arises.  It is a  question  of  asubordinate legislative authority gathering such informationas it wants and it is obliged to take into consideration allthe relevant circumstances.Certiorari  and prohibition lie only in respect of  judicialor  quasi-judicial  acts. (Halsbury's Laws of  England,	 3rdEdn.   Vol.  11,  p. 55, para.	114).	The  principle	audialteram	 partem	 also  applies only to	judicial  or  quasi-judicial   proceedings.	 (Patterson  v.	 Dist.	 Commr.	  ofAccrator,  [1948]  A. C. 341).	For  a	distinction  betweenjudicial    and	  legislative	functions,   See    Cooley'sConstitutional	Limitations,  8th  Edn.	  Vol.	1,  p.	185;Prentis	 v. Atlantic Coast Co. Ltd., 211 U.S. 210,  226-227,Per Holmes J.; Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 57 L.	 Ed.1479,  1482; Louisville and Nashville Railroad Co. v.  GreenGarrett,  58  L. Ed. 229, 239).	 The functions of  the	WageBoard  in  the	United Kingdom have  been  characterised  bywriters	 as legislative in character. (Robson's Justice	 andAdministrative	Law, 3rd Edn. p. 608; Griffith's  Principlesof  Administrative  Law,  p.  39;  Barbara  Wootton,  SocialFoundations of Wage Policy, Modern methods of35Wage  determination,  p.  88).	This is	 also  the  case  inAustralia.  (Federated	Saw  Mills Case, 8  C.	L.  R.	465;Australian  Boot Trade Employees Federation v.	Whybrow	 andCo., 10 C. L. R. 266, 289, 317, per Isaacs, J.). The  Labourand Industry Act, 1953, of Victoria (Australia) in s. 39 (2)gives  statutory recognition to the decisions in 8 C. L.  R.365   and  10  C.  L.  R.  266,	 by  providing	that   everydetermination  shall have force, validity and effect  as  ifenacted in the Act.  The very constitution of the Wage Boardunder	the   impugned	Act,  with  an	 equal	 number	  ofrepresentatives	  of   employers  and  employees   with	  anindependent chairman is against its being judicial or quasi-judicial  in character, for, no man should be judge  in	 hisown  cause.  (Franklin	v.  Minister  of  Town	and  CountryPlanning, [1948] A. C. 87, 103).It  is	incorrect  to  infer that once	the  Wage  Board  isconstituted  under  s.	8  of  the  Act	 the  power  of	 theGovernment  under the Act is exhausted and nothing more	 canbe done.  The power to constitute the Board can by virtue ofs. 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, be used from time totime  as the occasion demands.	There was nothing  wrong  inthe  Central  Government  reconstituting the  Board  on	 theresignation  of Shri K. P. Keshava Menon.  The	decision  bymajority  is  provided	by  Rules  framed  by  the   CentralGovernment under s. 20 of the Act which became a part of theAct.  Hence a decision by a majority in conformity with	 theRules under the Act cannot be impeached.In examining the decisions of the Wage Board the Court	willattach	to  them the same consideration and weight as  to  adecision by a legislature. (Pacific States Box and BasketingCo. v. White, 80 L. Ed. 138; 296 U. S. 170).Under  s.  II of the Act the Wage Board "may"  exercise	 thepowers	and  follow  the  procedure  laid  down	 under	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947.	There is nothing to  warrantthe  provision being read as obligatory or  mandatory.	 Theprovisions  of	the Industrial Disputes	 Act  are  basicallyenacted for the adjudication of disputes between two partiesand they are on36their  face  inapplicable  to  the  Wage  Board.   That	  isprecisely  why	the Board was given the option	to  exercisesome of the powers conferred by the Industrial Disputes	 Actor to follow procedures prescribed in that Act.It is not incumbent under the Act on the Wage Board to	giveany reasons for its decisons.  The Board would be  perfectlywithin its right if it chose not to give any reasons.While  judging the reasonableness of the wage structure	 forthe  whole industry it would be entirely fallacious  to	 seehow it hit a particular newspaper or a unit.  Multiple unitsor  chains  could be classified on the basis  of  the  totalgross	revenues  of  all  the	constituent  units   becauseeconomies would be possible in group operations resulting inthe  reduction of the cost of production.  There is  nothingin the Act which prohibits the Wage Board from grouping intochains or multiple units.  Further, there is nothing in	 theAct to prohibit the treating of several newspaper establish-ments publishing one or more newspapers though in  differentparts  of the country as one establishment for fixing  ratesof wages.Some   sort  of	 classification	 was  inevitable  when	 thenewspaper  establishments  all over the country	 had  to  beconsidered for fixing the rates of wages.  If the Wage Boardadopted gross revenue as a workable basis for classificationthere was nothing wrong and that fact could not vitiate	 itsdecision.   Profits of newspaper establishments	 were  vagueand  difficult to ascertain as many things are mixed  up  incalculating  profit.   It would be dangerous to	 go  by	 theprofit	and loss of individual concerns to  ascertain  theircapacity  to  pay.   Even  the	Bank  Award  has  taken	 the"turnover"  or the aggregate resources as the basis  of	 theclassification.	  The  basis of gross revenue was  the	onlyproper	and  convenient method of  ascertaining	 the  actualstatus	of  a  newspaper establishment	for  fixing  a	wagestructure.Wage-structure	recommended  by the Board  would  show	thatcompared with the scales and salaries obtaining now in	manyof  the	 newspaper establishments the scales  given  by	 theBoard were not exorbitant or37unreasonable.	What  is to be considered  is  the  industryregion-wise  and  not  individual units.   It  may  be	thatindividual  units  may	suffer hardship or even	 go  out  ofexistence but that would not be a relevant consideration.[Gajendragadkar,  J.-If	 the decisions are  to	be  attackedeffectively  under Art. 19(1)(g), petitioners have  to	showthat  A	 or B or C class of paper will cease to	 exist,	 or,taken as a class they cannot bear the burden.]That  is  the  way the matter  should  be  approached.	 Thefigures in individual statements of the petitioners  furnishno  evidence whatsoever of the unreasonableness of the	wagefixation.The decision is given retrospective effect from the date  ofconstitution  of  the  Board.	The  Act  itself  in  s.  13contemplates  interim  relief.	 Instead  of  granting	 anyinterim	 relief	 the  Board decided  to	 give  retrospectiveeffect to its decision.A.V. Viswanatha Sastri, S. Viswanathan, B. R. L. lyengar, J.B.  Dadachanji,	 S.  N.	 Andley	 and  Rameshwar	 Nath,	 forrespondent  No. 3 in Petition No. 91 of 1957.	The  balancesheets	and  profit  and loss  accounts	 of  the  petitionercompany	 for  several  years when analysed  show  that	withnormally  prudent  management  the earnings  of	 the  IndianExpress	 group	of newspapers admit of	payment	 to  workingjournalists  on	 the scale fixed by the Wage Board  and	 thedecision of the Wage Board was legally valid and just havingregard to the several factors to be taken into considerationin fixing a fair wage.N.   C. Chatterjee, A. S. R. Chari, S. Viswanathan,A.  N.Sinha,	J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and  Rameshwar  Nath,for the Indian Federation of Working Journalists in all	 thePetitions,  and	 for  the ]Delhi  Union	 of  Journalists  inPetition  No.  103  of 1957.  It is open  to  Parliament  todelegate  to  the  Wage Board the power	 to  legislate	withregard	to certain subjects.  The so-called decision of	 theWage  Board  was  a  valid  exercise  of  such	power  by  asubordinate  legislative  body functioning  under  specifiedconditions  under  Parliamentary  mandate  with	 the  limitsprescribed by the Constitution.38Even  if the Wage Board is held to be a quasijudicial  body,it  acted according to the principle of audi alteram  partemand no prerogative writ should be issued to disturb findingsarrived at by such a body.M.   K. Nambiar, in reply.  The Wage Board was not  intendedto  exercise powers of legislation but those of	 a  judicialnature.	  Under s. 10 of the Working Journalist,-,  Act	 theBoard has to make a "decision", and this term has been	usedin  several  enactments	 to indicate a	determination  by  ajudicial tribunal.  Under s. 8 the decision of the Board hasto be made in accordance with the provisions of the Act	 andtherefore the Board had the function of applying the law andnot  making a law.  The Wage 'Board is required under s.  11to  adopt  the	law procedure as is  adopted  by  IndustrialTribunal.-,.  The  decision of the Board is declared  to  bebinding	 only  on  some	 persons and not  all.	 It  can  beexecuted  in the same manner as the award of  an  IndustrialTribunal.   Its character is identical to that of  an  awardmade  by  an industrial tribunal and the Supreme  Court	 hasheld   that  a	tribunal  does	not   exercise	 legislativefunctions.   Parliament did not intend to confer any  powersof subordinate legislation on the Board.  This is clear fromthe  rules  of	business  of the Lok  Sabha  read  with	 theStatement  of  Objects	and Reasons to the  Bill.   In,	 thememorandum  regarding delegated legislation appended to	 theBill  the  constitution of the Wage Board in the  matter  offixation of wages had not been shown as a piece of delegatedlegislation. (The Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Businessin  Lok	 Sabha (1957)-Rule 70).	 The decision  of  the	WageBoard  was  not	 to  be	 laid  before  both  the  Houses  ofParliament.   This  would have been so had the	fixation  ofwages  by the Board was a delegated legislation	 (laid	Rule317).  The Wage Board was not constituted as sub-legislativeauthority.   The question is not what the legislature  couldhave  enacted  but whether by virtue of powers of  the	WageBoard under the Act as enacted, it is a legislative body  ora  tribunal with adjudicators functions The Board  does	 notpossess	 any  powers of delegated legislation, It  has	beengiven all the trappings which39were  necessary to characterize it as a judicial  body.	  Ininterpreting  the  Act the Court is entitled  to  take	intoconsideration  the surrounding circumstances, the object  ofthe  legislation and also whether a particular term used  inlegislation was considered by the legislature at the time ofenactment.   The court ought to take into consideration	 theentire	background  and the effect of dropping of  the	term"minimum"  from	 the enactment.	 The  Press  Commission	 haddirected its attention exclusively to the question of fixingminimum	 wage and the Act in s. 9 followed the	pattern	 andpurported  to  implement the recommendations  of  the  PressCommission.   The  Press Commission in	considering  minimumwage ignored the capacity to pay.  The Act, similarly, beingbased  on  the Report of the Press Commission  has  made  noprovision  for	considering  the  capacity  to	pay.	Thisomission which was appropriate with regard to minimum  wagesrendered  the  fixation	 of  wages  at	a  different   levelunreasonable  and therefore void.  The content of  the	term"minimum  wage" would not be changed by merely calling it  a"statutory" minimum.Section	 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, can  apply  ifthe enactment does not rule it out by necessary implication.The  entire scheme of the impugned Act shows that  only	 oneWage Board and one decision is contemplated.  It is not opento the Government to reconstitute the Wage Board as and whenthey desire.Munshi, in reply.  The doctrine of "pith and substance"	 canbe  applied  only  to  determine  the  jurisdiction  of	 thelegislature to enact a certain legislation.  Whether or	 notthe Act imposes a direct burden, the Court should see if theAct is a special law singling out an industry for laying theburden on it.  If it does so, as in the present Act, it willamount to a direct burden.  If it is a general law it  wouldnot be a direct burden.The Act stands alone in being arbitrary and excessive and iswithout parallel in any other country.	The Act is unique inthat  (1)  it  provides	 for  gratuity	even  on   voluntaryresignation.  (2)  it gives power to the Wage Board  to	 fixindeterminate  wages  investing	 them  with  attributes	  ofminimum wages, and (3) it confers on the Board power to	 fixwages (i) without specifying40essential standards, (ii) without casting a duty to follow areasonable  procedure,	(iii)  without	any  control  by  anappellate tribunal or court, and (iv) without providing	 anyopportunity  to	 the parties concerned to be  heard  on	 themerits	of the proposal it makes.  In other countries  thereare  various  safeguards and checks against  arbitrary	wagedecisions.  (U.	  K.  Wage Councils Act, 1945;	U.  S.	FairLabour	Standards Act, 1938; Factories and Shops Act,  1905,new Act of 1928 of Victoria, Australia).[Sinha, J. All these criticisms would be out of place if  itis held that the work of the Wage Board was legislative	 andnot judicial].No.  If the mechanism of the Act itself is such that  it  isunreasonably restrictive of rights to trade then the Act hasto be struck down as void under Art. 19 (1)(g).Even  if it is held that there was no excessive	 delegation,it   is	 still	open  to  the  Court  to  see  whether	 therestrictions  impinged	on  the	 Constitutional	  safeguardstinder Art. 19 (1)(g).Fixation  of  scales of wages on the basis  of	grossrevenuewithout taking into account the liability of newspapers is adevastating doctrine in industrial relations.The Wage Board is not a sub-legislative body; but even if itis,  it	 has to act judicially and is subject  to  writs  ofcertiorari.  Even if its decisions become assimilated in theAct it must be considered to be a quasi-judicial body, sinceit  is	expected to carry out  a  preliminary  investigationbefore recording its findings.The  functions	of the Wage Board  cannot  be  characterisedeither exclusively legislative or exclusively judicial.	 Thefunctions  performed by administrative agencies do not	fallin   water   tight  compartments.   They   may	 be   partlylegislative,  partly  judicial	and  partly   administrative(Stason	  and	Cooper,	 Cases	and   other   Materials	  onAdministrative	Tribunals).   The  Court  has  to   considerwhether	 the administrative agency performs a  predominantlylegislative or judicial function and determine its characteraccordingly  (Village  of Saratoga Springs v.  Saratoga	 GasElectric Light and Power Co., (1908) 191 New York 123 People			      41ex  rel.  Central Park North and East River Co. v.  Willcox,(1909)	194  New  York	383).  In  the	United	Kingdom	 thedecisions  of  the  Wage  Councils  in	the  shape  of	wageregulations proposal acquires legislative character from theorder  made by the Minister giving effect to the  proposals.In  Australia  the Factories and Shops Act,  1905,  and	 theLabour and Industry Act, 1953, Section 39(2) of Victoria  byexpress	 provision invests the determination of the  SpecialBoard with the characteristics of a legislative act.   Underthe  Fair Labour Standards Act, 1938, of U. S. A.  the	Wageorders ultimately approved by the Administrator are  subjectto  judicial review.  In India under the Minimum Wages	Act,1948, the recommendations of the Committees are forwarded tothe appropriate Government who by notification as a token ofapproval,  in  the official Gazette, fix  minimum  wages  inrespect	 of  each scheduled employment.	  Under	 the  recentamendment of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946,	 theWage  Boards  constituted under the Act are  to	 follow	 theprocedure of the Industrial Court in respect of	 arbitrationproceedings  and  it cannot be said that  they	perform	 anylegislative  function.	 The Wage Board under  the  impugnedAct,  in spite of its being an administrative body  or	sub-legislative  body  may	nevertheless  be  exercising  quasi-judicial  functions  if	 certain  conditions  are  fulfilled(Halsbury's  Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 11, pp.  55-56;Rex v. Manchester Legal Aid Committee, Ex-parte R. A.  Brandand  Co.  Ltd., [1952] 2 Q. B. 413, 428; Rex v.	 The  LondonCounty	Council,  Ex-parte  the	 Entertainments	  ProtectionAssociation Ltd., [1931] 2 K. B. 215, 233-234; Board of Edu-cation	v. Rice, [1911] A. C. 179,182; Allen C. K.  Law	 andOrder - 1956 Edn., pp. 102, 256, 257).The Wage Board has not given any attention to the  paramountconsideration  of capacity to pay as it should,	 in  reason,have done.  At no time was any question asked as to the wageburden the Wage Board's scales would impose on the  industryas  a ,whole or on a particular unit.  The  specific  burdenwhich the Board proposed to impose has never been642put even indirectly.  At no time has it been considered whatwould  be the potential burden on the industry if  the	non-journalists   in  newspaper  establishments   made   similardemands.   No  consideration has ever been given  about	 theeffect	on  the industry or on a unit of  the  retrospectiveoperation of the wage scales.A.   S. R. Chari, S. Viswanathan, B. R. L. Iyengar,J.  B.Dadachanji  and	 S. N. Andley, for the Federation  of  PressTrust of India Employees' Union, Bombay Union of Journalistsand Gujrat Working Journalists Union.R.   Ganapathy	 Iyer  and  G.	Gopalakrishnan,	  for	the'appellants in C. A. No. 699 of 1957.L.   K.	 Jha,  S.  S.  Shukla  and  R.	J.  Joshi,  for	 theappellants in C. A. Nos. 700 to 702 of 1957.S.   P.	 Sinha,	 Harbans  Singh	 and  R.  Patnaik,  for	 theappellants in C. A. No. 703 of 1957.B.   Sen  and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. I in all	 theappeals.N.   C.	 Chatterjee, J. B. Dadachanji and S. N. Andley,	 forthe Indian Federation of Working Journalists in all appeals,respondent No. 2 in C. A. No. 700 of 1957 and respondent No.3 in C. A. No. 703 of 1957.B.   R.	 L.  Iyengar,  J. B. Dadachanji, S.  N.	 Andley	 andRameshwar Nath, for respondent No. 3 in C. A. 699 of 1957.1958.  March 19.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byBHAGWATI   J.-These   petitions	 under	Art.   32   of	 theConstitution  raise  the  question as to the  vires  of	 theWorking	 Journalists  (Conditions of  Service)	and  Miscel-laneous	 Provisions  Act,  1955 (45  of	 1955),	 hereinafterreferred to as "the Act" and the decision of the Wage  Boardconstituted  thereunder.  As they raise common questions  oflaw  and  fact	they  can be dealt  with  under	 one  commonjudgment.In order to appreciate the rival contentions of the  partiesit will be helpful to trace the history of the events  whichled to the enactment of the impugned Act.The newspaper industry in India did not originally start  asan industry, but started as individual			     43newspapers  founded by leaders in the  national,  political,social and economic fields.  During the last half a century,however,  it  developed characteristics of a  profit  makingindustry  in  which big industrialists	invested  money	 andcombines controlling several newspapers all over the countryalso  became the special feature of this  development.	 Theworking	 journalists  except  for  the	comparatively  largenumber that were found concentrated in the big	metropolitancities, were scattered all over the country and for the lastten years and more agitated that some means should be  foundby  which  those  working in  the  newspaper  industry	wereenabled	 to  have their wages and salaries,  their  dearnessallowance  and other allowances, their retirement  benefits,their  rules  of leave and conditions of  service,  enquiredinto  by  some impartial agency or authority, who  would  beempowered to fix just and reasonable terms and conditions ofservice for working journalists as a whole.Isolated attempts were made by the Uttar Pradesh and  MadhyaPradesh	 Governments in this behalf.  On June 18, 1947,	 theGovernment of Uttar Pradesh appointed a committee to enquireinto  the  conditions  of  work	 of  the  employees  of	 thenewspaper industry in the Uttar Pradesh.On  March  27, 1948, the Government of Central	Provinces  &Berar  also  appointed an Inquiry Committee to	examine	 andreport on certain questions relating to the general  workingof  the	 newspaper industry in the province,  including	 thegeneral conditions of work affecting the editorial and otherstaff  of  newspapers, their emoluments	 including  dearnessallowance, leave, provident fund, pensionary benefits, etc.The   Committees  aforesaid  made  their  reports   on	 therespective dates March 31, 1949, and March 27, 1948,  makingcertain	 recommendations.  The All-India  problem,  however,remained  to be tackled and during the debate in  Parliamenton the Constitution (First Amendment) Bill, 1951, the  PrimeMinister said that he was prepared to appoint a committee ora  commission,	including representatives of the  Press,  toexamine44the  state of the Press and its content.  He elaborated	 theidea  further  on June 1, 1951, when he	 indicated  that  anenquiry covering the larger issue of the Press, such as	 hadbeen  carried  out  in	the  United  Kingdom  by  the  RoyalCommission,  might be productive of good for the  Press	 andthe  development  of this very important  aspect  of  publicaffairs.   The idea was further discussed during the  debatein  Parliament	on the Press (Incitement  to  Crimes)  Bill,later named the Press (Objectionable Matter) Act, 1952.	  Atits  session  held in April, 1952, at Calcutta,	 the  IndianFederation  of Working Journalists adopted a resolution	 forthe  appointment of a Commission to enquire into the  condi-tions  of  the Press in India with a view to  improving	 itsplace, status and functioning in the new democratic set	 up.The  appointment  of  the Press	 Commission  was  thereafterannounced  in  a Communique issued by the  Govt.  of  India,Ministry  of Information and Broadcasting, on September	 23,1952,	under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  Justice  G.	  S.Rajadhyaksha.The terms of reference inter alia were:-"2. The Press Commission shall enquire into the state of thePress in India, its present and future lines of	 developmentand shall in particular examine:...............(iv) the   method  of  recruitment,  training,	 scales	  ofremuneration, benefits and other conditions of employment ofworking	 journalists settlement of disputes  affecting	themand   factors	which  influence   the	 establishment	 andmaintenance of high professional standardsThe  Commission	 completed  its enquiry	 and  submitted	 itsreport on July 14, 1954.  Amongst other things it found thatout  of	 137 concerns about whom information  was  availableonly  59 were returning profits and 68 showed  losses.	 Theindustry  taken as a whole had returned a profit of about  6lakhs  of rupees on a capital investment of about 7  crores,or  less than I per cent. per annum.  It found	that  proof-readers	 as  a	class  could  not  be  regarded	 as  workingjournalists,  for there were proof-readers even	 in  pressesdoing job work.	 It came to the conclusion that if a  personhad been45employed  as a proof-reader only for the purpose  of  makinghim  a more efficient sub-editor, then it was  obvious	thateven while he was a proof-reader, he should be regarded as aworking journalist but in all other instances, he would	 notbe  counted  as a journalist but as a member  of  the  pressstaff coming within the purview of the Factories Act.The   question	 of  the  emoluments  payable	to   workingjournalists,  was discussed by it in paragraphs 538 and	 539of its report:538:-"SCALES  TO  BE  SETTLED BY  COLLECTIVE  BARGAINING  ORADJUDICATION:-It has not been possible for us to examine  indetail the adequacy of the scales of pay and the  emolumentsreceived by the working journalist having regard to the costof  living  in the various centers where  these	 papers	 arepublished and. to the capacity of the paper to make adequatepayment............ In this connection it may be stated thatthe  Federation of Working Journalists also agreed, when  itwas  put to them, that apart from suggesting a minimum	wageit  would  not be possible for the Commission  to  undertakestandardisation	 of designations or to fix scales of pay  orother conditions of service for the different categories  ofemployees  for different papers in different regions.	Theyhave stated that these details must be left to be settled bycollective bargaining or where an agreement is not  possiblethe  dispute could be settled by reference to an  industrialcourt or an adjudicator with the assistance of a Wage Board,if  necessary.	The All India Newspaper Editors'  Conferenceand Indian Language Newspapers' Association have also statedthat  it would not be possible to  standardise	designationsand that any uniformity of salaries as between one newspaperand another would be impossible.  The resources of differentnewspapers  vary and the conditions of service are  not	 thesame.  We agree in principle that there should be uniformityas far as possible, in the conditions of service in  respectof working journalists serving in the same area or locality.But  this  can	be  achieved only  by  a  settlement  or  anadjudication  to  which	 the employers,	 and  the  employeescollectively are parties."46539:-DEARNESS  ALLOWANCE:.......... This again, is a  matterwhich  would require very detailed study of the rise in	 theindex numbers of the cost of living for various places wherethe  newspapers are published.	We do not know of  any	casewhere  a  uniform  rate has  been  prescribed  for  dearnessallowance  applicable all over the country  irrespective  ofthe economic conditions at different centres and the  payingcapacity  of the various units.	 This must be a	 matter	 formutual	adjustment between the employers and  the  employeesand  if	 there	is  no agreement,  some	 machinery  must  beprovided  by  which disputes between the  parties  could  beresolved."The  position of a journalist was thus characterised by	 theCommission:"  A journalist occupies a responsible position in life	 andhas  powers which he can wield for good or evil.  It  is  hewho reflects and moulds public opinion.	 He has to possess acertain	 amount	 of intellectual equipment and	should	haveattained  a  certain educational standard without  which  itwould	be  impossible	for  him  to  perform	his   dutiesefficiently.  His wage and his conditions of service  shouldtherefore  be  such as to attract talent.  He  has  to	keephimself	 abreast of the development in different  fields  ofhuman  activity-even in such technical subjects as law,	 andmedicine.   This must involve constant study,  contact	withpersonalities  and  a  general	acquaintance  with   world'sproblems."It  considered	therefore  that there should  be  a  certainminimum	 wage paid to a journalist.  The possible impact  ofsuch  a	 minimum wage was also considered by it and  it	 wasconsidered not unlikely that the fixation of such a  minimumwage may make it impossible for small papers to continue  toexist  as such but it thought that if a newspaper could	 notafford	to pay the minimum wage to the employee which  wouldenable him to live decently and with dignity, that newspaperhad  no	 business  to exist.   It  recommended	division  oflocalities for taking into account the differential cost  ofliving	in  different parts of India, and  determining	whatshould be the reasonable47minimum	 wage  in  respect of each area.   It  endorsed	 theconcept	 of  a minimum wage which has been adopted.  by	 theBank Award:-Though the living wage is the target, it has to be tempered,even   in  advanced  countries,	 by  other   considerations,particularly the general level of wages in other  industriesand  the  capacity  of the industry  to	 pay............  InIndia,	however, the level of the national income is so	 lowat  present that it is generally accepted that	the  countrycannot	afford to prescribe a minimum wage corresponding  tothe concept of a living wage.  However, a minimum wage	evenhere  must  provide not merely for the bare  subsistence  ofliving,	 but  for the efficiency of the	 worker.   For	thispurpose, it must also provide for some measure of education,medical requirements and amenities." and suggested that	 thebasic  minimum wage all over India for a working  journalistshould be Rs. 125 with Rs. 25 as dearness allowance making atotal  of  Rs.	150.  It  also	suggested  certain  dearnessallowance and City allowance in accordance with the locationof the areas in which the working journalists were employed.It  compared  the minimum wage recommended by  it  with	 therecommendations	 of  the Uttar Pradesh	and  Madhya  PradeshCommittees  and stated that its recommendations were  fairlyin  line  with	the  recommendations  of  those	  Committeesparticularly having regard to the rise in the cost of livingwhich bad taken place since those reports were made.It  then  considered  the applicability	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes Act to the working journalists and after  referringto  the	 award	of  the Industrial  Tribunal  at  Bombay  inconnection  with the dispute between " Jam-e-Jamshed  "	 andtheir  workman and the decision of the Patna High  Court  inthe case of V. N. N. Sinha v. Bihar Journals Limited (1), itcame to the conclusion that the working journalists did	 notcome  within the definition of workman as it stood  at	thattime  in  the Industrial Disputes Act nor could	 a  questionwith regard to them be raised by others who were  admittedlygoverned by the Act.  It thereafter con-(1)  (1953) 1. L. R. 32 Pat. 688.48sidered	 the questions as to the tenure of  appointment	 andthe  minimum  period  of  notice  for  termination  of	 theemployment  of	the  working  journalists,  hours  of  work,provision for leave, retirement benefits and gratuity,	madecertain	 recommendations and suggested legislation  for	 theregulation of the newspaper industry which should embody itsrecommendations	 with  regard  to (i)  notice  period;	(ii)bonus; (iii) minimum wages; (iv) Sunday rest; (v) leave, and(vi) provident fund and gratuity.Almost immediately after the Report of the Press Commission,Parliament   passed  the  Working  Journalists	 (Industrial]Disputes)  Act, 1955 (I of 1955) which received the  assentof the President on March 12, 1955.  It was an Act to  applythe  Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to working	journalists." Working Journalist " was defined in s. 2 (b) of the Act tomean  "	 a  person whose principal avocation is	 that  of  ajournalist  and who is employed as such in, or	in  relationto, any establishment for the production or publication of anewspaper  or  in,  or in relation to, any  news  agency  orsyndicate   supplying  material	 for  publication   in	 anynewspaper,  and includes an editor, a  letter-writer,  news-editor,	 sub-editor, feature writer, copy-taster,  reporter,correspondent,	 cartoonist,  news-photographer	 and   proofreader but does not include any such person  who:(i)is  employed	 mainly in a managerial or  admini  strativecapacity, or(ii)being  employed  in	 a  supervisory	 capacity,exercises,either by the nature of the duties attached to the office orby reason of the powers vested in him, functions mainly of amanagerial nature.  Section 3 of that Act provided that	 theprovisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, shall applyto, or in relation to, working journalists as they apply  toor in relation to workmen within the meaning of that Act.The application of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to theworking	 journalists was not, however, deemed sufficient  tomeet   the  requirements  of  the  situation.	 There	 wasconsiderable agitation in Parliament for the  implementationof the recommendations49of the Press Commission, and on November 30, 1955, the UnionGovernment introduced a Bill in the Rajya, Sabha, being BillNo.  13	 of 1955.  It was a Bill to regulate  conditions  ofservice of working journalists and other persons employed innewspaper establishments.  The recommendations of the  PressCommission  in	regard to minimum period of  notice,  bonus,Sunday	rest, leave, and provident fund and gratuity,  etc.,were  all  incorporated	 in the Bill; the  fixation  of	 theminimum	 rates of Wages however was left to a  minimum	wageBoard  to  be  constituted for the purpose  by	the  CentralGovernment.   The  provisions of the  Industrial  Employment(Standing Orders) Act, 1946 (20 of 1946) and the  Employees'Provident  Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) were also sought  tobe  applied in respect of establishments  exceeding  certainminimum size as recommended by the Commission.It appears that during the course of discussion in the RajyaSabha,	the  word  " minimum " was  dropped  from  the	Billwherever  it occurred, the Minister for Labour	having	beenresponsible  for  the suggested amendment.  The	 reason	 fordropping the same wasstated by him as under:" Let the word " minimum " be dropped and let it be a properwage  board  which will look into this question in  all	 itsaspects.   Now,	 if  that is done, I believe,  from  my	 ownexperience of the industrial disputes with regard to  wages,in a way it will solve the question of wages to the  workingjournalists for all time to come."The  Act  as  finally passed was  entituled  "	The  WorkingJournalists   (Conditions  of  Service)	 and   MiscellaneousProvisions Act, 1955 (45 of 1955) and received the assent ofthe President on December 20, 1955.The  relevant provisions of the Act may now be referred	 to.It  was an Act to regulate certain conditions of service  ofworking journalists and other persons employed in  newspaperestablishments. Newspaper establishment " was defined in  s.2  (d) to mean " an establishment under the control  of	 anyperson or body of persons, whether incorporated or not,	 forthe production or publication of one or more50newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate ".The  definition of " working journalist " was almost in	 thesame  terms as that in the Working  Journalists	 (IndustrialDisputes) Act, 1955, and included a proof reader.  All wordsand expressions used but not defined in this Act and definedin the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, were under s. 2 (g) tohave the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.Section 3 applied the provisions of the Industrial  DisputesAct, 1947, as it was in force for the time being, to workingjournalists  as they applied to, or in relation	 to  workmenwithin	the meaning of that Act subject to the	modificationthat  s.  25 (F) of that Act in its application	 to  workingjournalists in regard to the period of notice in relation tothe  retrenchment  of  a  workman was  to  be  construed  assubstituting  six months in the case of the retrenchment  ofan editor and three months, in the case of any other workingjournalist.  The period which lapsed between the publicationof  the report and the enactment of the Working	 Journalists(Industrial  Disputes) Act, 1955, viz., from July 14,  1954,to  March  12, 1955, was sought to be bridged over by  s.  4enacting  special provisions in respect of certain cases  ofretrenchment during that period.  Section 5 provided for thepayment of gratuity, inter alia, to a working journalist whohad been in continuous service, whether before or after	 thecommencement  of the Act, for not less than three  years  inany   newspaper	 establishment	even  when  he	 voluntarilyresigned  from	service	 of  that  newspaper  establishment.Section	 6  laid down that no working  journalist  shall  berequired  or allowed to work in any newspaper  establishmentfor  more than one hundred and forty-four hours	 during	 anyperiod of four consecutive weeks, exclusive of the time	 formeals.	Every working journalist was under s. 7 entitled  toearned	leave and leave on medical certificate on the  termstherein specified without prejudice to such holidays, casualleave or other kinds of leave as might be prescribed.  Afterthus  providing	 for retrenchment compensation,	 payment  ofgratuity, hours of work, and leave, ss. 8 to 1 1 of the	 Actprovided51for  fixation  of the rates of wages in respect	 of  workingjournalists.  Section 8 authorised the Central Government bynotification  in the Official Gazette to constitute  a	WageBoard  for fixing rates of wages in respect of	the  workingjournalists  in accordance with the provisions of  the	Act,which  Board  was to consist of an equal number	 of  personsnominated  by the Central Government to represent  employersin  relation  to the newspaper establishments-	and  workingjourna	lists,	and an independent person appointed  by	 theCentral Government as the Chairman thereof.  Section 9	laiddown  the  circumstances which the Wage Board  was  to	haveregard	to in fixing rates of wages and these  circumstanceswere  the cost of living, the prevalent rates of  wages	 forcomparable  employments, the circumstances relating  to	 thenewspaper  industry in different regions of the country	 andto  any	 other	circumstance which to  the  Board  may	seemrelevant.   The decision of the Board fixing rates of  wageswas to be communicated as soon as practicable to the CentralGovernment and this decision was under s. 10 to be publishedby  the Central Government in such manner as it thought	 fitwithin a period of one month from the date of its receipt bythe Central Government and the decision so published was  tocome  into  operation with effect from such date as  may  bespecified, and where no date was so specified on the date ofits  publication.   Section  11 prescribed  the	 powers	 andprocedure of the Board and stated that subject to any  rulesof  procedure which might be prescribed the Board  may,	 forthe  purpose  of fixing rates of wages,	 exercise  the	samepowers	and  follow  the same  procedure  as  an  IndustrialTribunal  constituted  under the  Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947, exercised or followed for the purpose of	adjudicatingan  industrial dispute referred to it.	The decision of	 theBoard  under  s.  12  was declared  to	be  binding  on	 allemployers in relation to newspaper establishments and  everyworking	 journalist was entitled to be paid wages at a	ratewhich was to be in no case less than the rate of wages fixedby the Board.  Sections 14 and 15 applied the provisions  ofthe Industrial Employment (Standing Orders)52Act,  1946, as it was in force for the time being  and	alsothe provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds Act,  1952,as  it was in force for the time being, to  every  newspaperestablishment in which twenty or more persons were employed.Section	 17 provided for the recovery of money due  from  anemployer  and  enacted	that where any money was  due  to  anewspaper  employee  from  an  employer	 under	any  of	 theprovisions  of	the  Act, whether by  way  of  compensation,gratuity  or  wages, the newspaper employee  might,  withoutprejudice to any other mode of recovery, make an applicationto the State Government for the recovery of the money due tohim,  and if the State Government or such authority  as	 theState Government might specify in this behalf was  satisfiedthat any money was so due, it shall issue a certificate	 forthat amount to the collector and the collector shall proceedto  recover that amount in the same manner as an  arrear  ofland  revenue.	Section 20 empowered the Central  Governmentby.  notification in the Official Gazette to make  rules  tocarry  out  the purposes of the Act and	 in  particular	 andwithout prejudice to the generality of the foregoing  power,such  rules were to provide inter alia for the procedure  tobe  followed  by the Board in fixing rates  of	wages.	 Allrules made under this section, as soon as practicable  afterthey  were  made  were	to be laid  before  both  Houses  ofParliament.   The Working Journalists (Industrial  Disputes)Act, 1955, was repealed by s. 21 of the Act.In  pursuance of the power given under s. 20 of the Act	 theCentral	 Government  published	by  a  notification  in	 theGazette of India-Part II-Section 3, dated July 30,1956,	 TheWorking	 Journalists Wage Board Rules, 1956 Rule 8  providedthat every question considered at a meeting of the Board wasto  be	decided by a majority of the votes  of	the  memberspresent	 and voting.  In the event of equality of votes	 theChairman  was to have a casting vote.  Rule 13 provided	 forthe  resignation  of  the Chairman or any  member  from	 hisoffice or membership, as the case may be.  The seat held  bythem was to be deemed to have fallen vacant with effect fromthe date the53resignation  of the Chairman or the member was	accepted  bythe  Central Government.  When a vacancy thus arose  in	 theoffice	of the Chairman or in the membership of	 the  Board,the  Central Government was to take immediate steps to	fillthe  vacancy in accordance with the Act and the	 proceedingsmight'	be continued before the Board so reconstituted	fromthe stage at which the vacancy was so filled.By a notification dated May 2, 1956, the Central  Governmentconstituted  a Wage Board under s. 8 of the Act	 for  fixingrates  of  wages  in  respect  of  working  journalists	  inaccordance  with  the provisions of the Act,  consisting  ofequal representatives of employers in relation to  newspaperestablishments and working journalists and appointed Shri H.V.  Divatia, Retired Judge of the High Court of	 Judicature,Bombay, as the Chairman of the Board.  The three members  ofthe  Board  who	 were nominated to  represent  employers  inrelation  to  newspaper	 establishments	 were  (1)  Shri  G.Narasimhan, Manager, The Hindu, Madras and President, Indianand Eastern Newspaper Society; (2) Shri A. R. Bhat,  M.L.C.,who  had been a member of the Press Commission and  was	 thePresident of the Indian Language Newspapers Association,  asalso the Chairman of the Minimum Wages Inquiry Committee forthe Printing Industry in Bombay and, (3) Shri -K. P.  KesavaMenon,	Editor,	 Mathrubhumi,  Calicut.	  The  other   threemembers of the Board who were nominated to represent workingjournalists were: (1) Shri G. Venkataraman, M. P., (2)	ShriC. Raghavan, Secretary-General, Indian Federation of WorkingJournalists,  and (3) Shri G. N. Acharya, Assistant  Editor,Bombay Chronicle.Shri H. V. Divatia, the Chairman of the Board, had wide	 andconsiderable  experience as Chairman of the  Textile  LabourEnquiry	 Committee,  Bombay, had been the President  of	 theFirst  Industrial Court to be set up in India in  1938,	 andhad  worked as an Industrial Tribunal dealing  with  severaldisputes as between several banks and employees, as well  asbetween several insurance companies and their employees.54The first meeting of the Board was held on May 26, 1956,  inthe Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan at Bombay.  Sri Kesava Menon	 andShri G. Narasimhan were not present at this meeting.  It wasa  preliminary	meeting	 at which the Board set	 up  a	sub-committee  consisting  Of  Shri A. R. Bhat and	Shri  G.  N.Acharya	 to draft a questionnaire for issue to	the  variousjournals  and  organisations  concerned,  with	a  view	  toeliciting  factual  data  and  other  relevant	 informationrequired   for	the  fixation  of  wages  for  the   workingjournalists.   The  sub-committee was requested to  hear  inmind,  while  framing the questionnaire the  need  for:	 (1)obtaining detailed accounts of newspaper establishments; (2)proper	evaluation of the nature of and the work of  variouscategories   of	  working  journalists;	  and	(3)   properclassification	of the country into different areas  on	 thebasis  of certain criteria like population, cost of  living,etc.  The questionnaire drafted by the sub-committee was  tobe finalised by the chairman and circulated to all concernedby the end of June, 1956.The  questionnaire was accordingly drawn up and was sent  toUniversities  and  Governments,	 etc.,	and  several   otherorganisations  and individuals interested in the inquiry  ofthe  Board,  and  to all newspapers  individually.   It	 wasdivided	 into  three parts.  Part " A" was  intended  to  beanswered  by  newspapers, news	agencies,  organisations  ofemployers  and of workinly Journalists and  any	 individualswho  might  wish  to  do so.  Part " B "  was  meant  to  beanswered  by  all  newspapers and Part " C  "  by  all	newsagencies.At  the outset the Board pointed out that except  where	 thequestion  itself  indicated a different period or  point  oftime, the reporting period for purposes of parts " B " and "C " of the questionnaire was the financial years (April I toMarch	31)1952-53,   1953-54,	and  1954-55,  or   in	 anyestablishments which followed a different accounting year, aperiod	of  three  years as near thereto  as  possible.	  Itfurther	 pointed out that tinder s. 11 of the Act the  Boardhad  the powers of an Industrial Tribunal constituted  underthe   Industrial   Disputes  Act.   In	Part  "A"   of	 thequestionnaire  under  the heading " Cost of Living  cost  ofliving			  55index  for  the	 respective centres were called	 for  and  aspecial	 question  was addressed whether the  basic  minimumwage,  dearness allowance and metropolitan allowance in	 thetable attached to paragraph 546 of the Press Commission	 wasacceptable  to	the  party  questioned	and,  if  not,	whatvariations  would the: party suggest. and  why.	  Comparableemployment  suggested included (a) Higher  secondary  schoolteachers;  (b)	College	 and  -	 university  teachers;	 (c)Journalists  employed  as  publicity  and  public  relationsofficers  in the information departments of the Central	 andState  Governments; (d) Journalistic employees of  the	newsservice	 division  of  All  India  Radio  and  (e)  Researchpersonnel of the economic and social research departments ofCentral	 Government  ministries	 like  finance,	 labour	 andcommerce.   Under the heading " Special Circumstances",	 theonly  question addressed was question No. 7: " Are there  inyour  region  any  special  conditions	in  respect  of	 thenewspaper industry which affect the fixing of rates of wagesof  working journalists ? If so, specify the conditions	 andindicate  how  they  affect the question  of  wages.   "  Asregards the principles of wage fixation the party questionedwas to categorise the different newspaper establishments andin  doing so consider the following factors,  among  others:(a)  Invested capital; (b) Gross revenue; (c)  Advertisementrevenue;  (d) Circulation; (e) Periodicity  of	publication;(f)  The existence of chains, multiple units  and  combines;and (g) Location.In  part  B " which was to be answered	by  newspapers	wereincluded under the heading Accounts :-(1)Balance  sheets  and	 (2) Trading  and  profit  and	lossaccounts of the newspapers as in the specimen forms attachedthereto	 for  the  reporting period.   Questions  were	alsoaddressed  in regard to the revenue of the newspapers  interalia  from  the	 press,	 a  process  studio,  outside  work,foundry,  etc.,	 and subscriptions as also  the	 expenditureincurred  on  postage,	distribution/sale,  commission	 andrebate to advertisers, etc., and other items.56All  information which was considered necessary by the	WageBoard for the purposes of fixation of the rates of wages wasthus sought to be elicited by the questionnaire.It  appears  that  Shri	 K. P. Kesava  Mellon  sent  in	 hisresignation on or about June 21, 1956, and by a notificationdated  July  14, 1956, the Central Government  accepted	 thesaid  resignation  and	appointed in his place	Shri  K.  M.Cherian, member of the executive committee of the Indian andEastern Newspapers Association, one of the directors of	 thePress  Trust  of  India	 and  the  Chief  Editor,   MalayalaManorama, Kottayam, as a member of the Board.Out  of	 5,465	newspapers,  journals,	etc.,  to  whom	 thequestionnaire  was sent only 381 answered the same; and	 outof  502	 dailies  only 138 answered it.	 The  Board  had  ananalysis made of those who had replied to the  questionnaireand  also of their replies thereto in regard to each of	 thequestions  contained  in  the questionnaire.   It  also	 gotstatements  prepared according to the gross revenue  of	 thenewspapers,  the population of the centres,  circulation  ofthe  papers,  the cost of living index, scales	of  dearnessallowance   in	 certain  States,  figures   of	  comparableemployments,   pay   scales  of	 important   categories	  ofjournalists, etc., the total income, break up of expenditurein relation to total income and total expenses, total incomein  relation to net profits, and net losses and net  profitsin  relation to circulation of the several newspapers  whichhad sent in the replies to the questionnaire,.Further	 meetings of the Board were held oil August 17,	 andAugust	26,  1956, in Bombay.  Tile  Chairman  informed	 themembers that response from journals, organisations, etc., towhom  'questionnaire was sent was unsatisfactory and it	 wasdecided	 to  issue a Press Note requesting  the	 papers	 andjournals  to send their replies, particularly to Part " B  "of  the questionnaire, as soon as possible,  inviting  theirattention  to  the  fact that the Board	 had  powers  of  anIndustrial Tribunal under the Act, and if newspapers  failedto send their replies, the Board would be compelled to	takefurther	 steps	in  the matter.	 It  was  decided  that	 forpurposes57of  taking  oral  evidence, the country be  divided  into  5zones,	namely,	 Trivandrum,  Madras,  Delhi,  Calcutta	 andBombay	and the Secretary was asked to summon  witnesses  tothe  nearest and convenient centre.  It was further  decidedthat one hour should normally be allotted to each newspaper,3 hours for regional units and 2 hours for smaller units fororal evidence.	The Board also discussed the question as  tothe  number  of persons who might ordinarily be	 called	 fororal  evidence	from  each newspaper  or  Organisation.	  Itthought	 that  one of the important  factors  Governing	 thefindings  of  the  Board would be the  circulation  of	eachnewspaper, and as such it was decided that the figures	withthe  Audit Bureau of Circulation Ltd., might be obtained  atonce.	 The  Board  also  decided  to	ask  witnesses,	  ifnecessary,   to	 produce  books	 of   accounts,	  income-taxassessment orders or any other document which in its opinionwas essential.Meetings of the Board were held at Trivandrum from September7,  to September 10, 1956, in Madras from September  15,  toSeptember 20, 1956, in New Delhi from October 19, to October26, 1956, in Calcutta from November 25, to December  4,1956,and  in	 Bombay from January 4, to January  10,	 1957,	fromJanuary 20, to February 6, 1957, from March 25 to March	 31,1957 and finally from April 22 to April 24, 1957.Evidence  of several journalists and persons connected	withthe newspaper industry was recorded at the respective placesand  at	 its meeting in Bombay from March 25, to  March	 31,1957,  the Board entered upon its final	 deliberations.	  Atthis  meeting  the chairman impressed upon the	members	 thedesirability of arriving at unanimous decisions with  regardto  the fixation of wages, etc.	 He further stated  that  hewould  be extremely happy if representatives-  of  newspaperindustry  and  of working journalists could come  to  mutualagreement  by direct discussions and he assured	 his  utmostco-operation and help in arriving at decisions on points  onwhich	they  could  not  agree.   Members   welcomed	thissuggestion and decided to58discuss various issues among themselves in the afternoon andon the following days.After  considerable discussion on March 25, 1957, and  March26, 1957, in which the representatives of the newspapers andof   working  journalists  had	joint  Sittings,   unanimousdecisions   were  arrived  at  on  (i)	 classification	  ofnewspapers,   (ii)  classification  of	centres	 and   (iii)classification	of employees, except on one  point,  namely,classification	of group, multiple units and chains  on	 thebasis of their total gross revenue.  This was agreed to by amajority decision.  The chairman and the representatives  ofthe   working	journalists  voted  in	favour	 while	 therepresentatives	 of the employers voted against.   Regardingscales	of  pay, the chairman suggested at  the	 meeting  ofMarch  27, 1957, that pending final settlement of the  issuethe  parties should submit figures of scales based  on	bothassumptions,  namely,  consolidated wages and  basic  scaleswith  separate	dearness allowance.  Both  sides  agreed  tosubmit	concrete suggestions on the following day.   At	 theBoard's	 meeting on March 28, 1957, the	 representatives  ofthe employers stated that the term CC rates of pay " did notinclude	 scales	 of  pay ; there fore,	the  Board  was	 notcompetent  to  fix scales of working  journalists  and	theysubmitted  a written statement signed by all of them to	 thechairman    in	 support   of	their	 contention.	 Therepresentatives	 of the working journalists argued that	 theBoard  was  competent to fix scales of	pay.   The  chairmanadjourned  the sitting of the Board to study this issue.   Acopy   of   the	  written   statement	submitted   by	 therepresentatives	  of   the  employers  was  given   to	 therepresentatives	  of  the  working  journalists	  and	theysubmitted a written reply the same afternoon contending thatthe  Board  was competent to fix scales of  pay	 of  variouscategories of working journalists.' At its meeting on  March29,  1957,  the Board discussed its own	 competency  to	 fixscales	of  pay.   The chairman	 expressed  his	 opinion  inwriting, whereby he held that the Board was competent to fixscales	of pay.	 On a vote being taken according to r. 8  ofthe Working Journalists Wage Board Rules, 1956, the chairman59and the representatives of the working journalists voted  infavour of the competence of the Board to fix scales of	pay,while the representatives of the employers voted against it.Thereafter, several suggestions were made on this  question,but since there was no possibility of any agreement on	thisissue,	the  chairman suggested that members  should  submittheir specific scales to him for his study to which the mem-bers  agreed.  It was also decided that the  chairman  wouldhave  separate discussions with representatives	 of  workingjournalists  in	 the  morning and  with	 representatives  ofemployers  in the afternoon of March 30, 1957.	It was	alsodecided that the Board should meet again on March 31,  1957,for  further  discussions.  No final  decision	was  howeverarrived	 at  in the meeting of the Board held on  March	 31,1957, on scales of pay, allowances, date of operation of thedecision,  etc.	 It was decided that the Board	should	meetagain on April 22, 1957, to take final decisions.A meeting of the Board was accordingly held from April 22 to24, 1957, in the office of the Wage Board at Bombay.  It wasunanimously  agreed that the word "decision" should be	usedwherever  the word " report" occurred.	The question of	 thenature	of  the decisions which should be submitted  to	 theGovernment was then considered.	 It was agreed that  reasonsneed  not  be given for each of the decisions, and  that  itwould  be  sufficient  only to record  the  decisions.	 Themembers	 then requested the chairman to study the  proposalsregarding  scales  of  pay, etc.,  submitted  by,  both	 theparties and to give his own proposals so that they may	takea  final decision.  Accordingly, the chairman circulated  toall the members his proposals regarding pay scales, dearnessallowance, location allowance and retainer allowance.The following were the decisions arrived at by the Board  onthe  various  points  under  consideration  and	 they	wereunanimous  except where otherwise stated.  The same  may  beset out here so far as they are relevant for the purposes ofthe inquiry before US.1.   For the purpose of fixation of wages of working60journalists,  newspaper,  establishments should	 be  groupedunder different classes.2.   Except  in the case of weeklies and  other	 periodicalsexpressly provided for hereinafter, newspaper establishmentsshould be classified on the basis of their gross revenue.3.   For  purposes  of	classification,	 revenue  from	 allsources	 of a newspaper establishment, should be  taken	 forascertaining gross revenue.4.   Classification  of Newspaper  Establishments:Dailies- Newspaper Establishments should be classified underthe following five classes:-Class	  Gross Revenue" A" over Rs. 25 lakhs" B" over Rs. 12-1/2 to 25 lakhs" C" over Rs. 5 to 12-1/2 lakhs" D" over Rs. 2-1/2 to 5 lakhs" E" Rs. 2-1/2 lakhs and below5.  Classification  of newspaper  establishments  should  bebased on the average gross revenue of the three-year period,1952, 1953 and 1954.6.   It	 shall be open to the parties to  seek	re-classifi-cation	of the newspaper establishments on the basis of	 theaverage of every three years commencing from the year 1955.11.  Groups, multiple units and chains should be  classifiedon  the	 basis	of  the	 total	gross  revenue	of  all	 theconstituent  units.  (This  was	 a  majority  decision,	 thechairman and the representatives of the working	 journalistsvoting	for and the representatives of the employers  votingagainst).12. A newspaper establishment will be classified as:-(i)  A group, if it publishes more than one  newspaper	fromone centre;(ii) A	multiple  unit, if it publishes the  same  newspaperfrom more than one centre;(iii)	  A  chain, if it publishes more than one  newspaperfrom more than one centre.6120.  Working	 journalists	employed    in	   newspaperestablishments should be grouped as follows:(a)  Full time employees:Group	  I: EditorGroup	  II: Assistant Editor, Leader Writer, News  Editor,Commercial  Editor,  Sports  Editor,  Film  or	Art  Editor,Feature	 Editor,  Literary  Editor,  Special  Correspondent,Chief Reporter, Chief Sub-Editor and Cartoonist.Group  III: Sub-Editors and Reporters of all kind  and	fulltime   correspondents  not  included  in   Group(II);	newsphotographers  and  other  journalists not  covered  in	 thegroups.Group IV: Proof Reader-(b) Part time employees:Correspondents	who are part time employees of	a  newspaperestablishment  and  whose  principal avocation	is  that  ofjournalism.An  employee should be deemed to be a full time employee  ifunder the conditions of service such employee is not allowedto work for any other newspaper establishments.23.The	wage scales and grades recommended by  the  chairmanwere agreed to by a majority decision.	The chairman and therepresentatives of the working journalists voted for and therepresentatives	 of the employers voted against.  Shri	Thatsuggested  that	 wage  scales should  be  conditional  on  anewspaper  establishment  making profits in  any  particularyear  and  also that time should be given to  the  newspaperestablishments	for  bringing  the  scales  into  operation.These  suggestions,  however,  were not	 acceptable  to	 themajority.Wages,	scales	and grades: (as agreed to by  the  majority)were  as  under:  Working journalists  of  different  groupsemployed  in different classes of  newspaper  establishmentsshould be paid the following basic wages per mensem.	  621. Dailies.Class of      Group of	 Starting	ScaleNews-	    Employees	 PaypapersE    IV			 90	      No Scale     III     II			 150	      No Scale     ID    IV			 100100-5-165 (13 Yrs.)				EB-7-200-(5 Yrs.)     III		 115115-7-1/2--205 (12 Yrs.)				EB-15-295 (6 Yrs.)     II			  200200-20-400 (10 Yrs.)     IC    IV			  100100-5-165 (13 Yrs.)			       EB-7-200- (5 Yrs.)     III		  125125-10-245 (12 Yrs.)			       EB-12J-320 (6 Yrs.)     II			  225225-20-385 (8 Yrs.)			       EB-30-445 (2 Yrs.)     I			  350350-25-550 (8 Yrs.)			       -40-630 (2 Yrs.)B    IV			  100100-5-165 (13 Yrs.)				EB-7-200 (5 Yrs.)     III		  150150-12J-300 (12 Yrs.)				EB-20-420 (6 Yrs.)     II			  350350-20-510 (8 Yrs.)			      EB-30-570 (2 Yrs.)     I			   500500-30-740 (8 YrS.)				    -40-820 (2 Yrs.)A    IV			   125125-7-1/2--215 (12 Yrs.)					EB-10-275 (6 Yrs.)     III		   175175-20-415 (12 Yrs.)				     EB-25-515 (4 Yrs.)     II			    500500-40-820 (8 Yrs.)				    EB-50-920 (2 Yrs.)     I			     10001000-50-1300 (6 Yrs.)				      -75-1600 (4 Yrs.)Dearness   allowance,  location	 allowance  and	 part	timeemployees  remuneration	 were  also  majority  decisions.Thechairman and the representatives of the working63journalists  voting  for  and  the  representatives  of	 theemployers voting against.28.  Other allowances:-In view of the paucity of evidence onthe  subject,  the  Board  decided  that  the  fixation	  ofconveyance and other allowances should be left to collectivebargaining between the working journalists and the newspaperestablishments concerned.29.  Fitment  of  employees:-For  fitment  of  the   presentemployees into the new scales, service in a particular gradeand  category and in the particular newspaper  establishmentalone should be taken into account.30.  In	 no  case  should  the	present	 emoluments  of	 theemployees  be reduced as a; result of the operation of	thisdecision.35.  When a newspaper establishment is re-classified as	 perpara.  6  supra,  the existing pay of the  staff  should  beprotected.  But future increments and scales should be thoseapplicable to the class of paper into which it falls.38.  Date  of  operation:-The  Board's	decision  should  beoperative from the date of constitution of the Board  (i.e.,2-5-1956)  in  respect of  newspaper  eseablishments  comingunder  Class  "	 A ", " B " and " C " and from	a  date	 sixmonths	from  the date of appointment of  the  Board  (i.e.,1-11-1956)  in	the case of newspaper  establishments  underClass " D " & " E"  (This was also a majority decision.	 Thechairman and the representatives of the working	 journalistsvoted  for  and the representatives of the  employers  votedagainst).41.  The Government of India should constitute a Wage  Boardunder the Act, to review the effect of the decisions of	 theBoard  on  the	newspaper  establishments  and	the  workingjournalists, after the expiry of 3 years but not later	than5 years from the date of the publication of the decisions ofthe Board.These  decisions  were recorded on April 30, 1957,  but	 therepresentatives	 of  the employers thought fit to  append  aminute of dissent and the chairman also put on record a noteon the same day explaining the64reasons	 for the decisions thus recorded.   These  documentsare  of vital importance in the determination of the  issuesbefore us.In the minute of dissent recorded by the representatives  ofthe employers they started with an expression of regret thatthe conditions in the newspaper industry did not Permit themto  accept the majority view.  They expressed their  opinionthat  the fixation of rates of wages should be	governed  bythe following criteria:(i)  normal needs of a worker;(ii) capacity of the industry to pay;(iii)	  nature of the industry; and(iv) effect  on	 the  development of  the  industry  and  onemployment.  They pointed out that:(a)  The  newspaper  industry was a class  by  itself.	 Theselling	 price of its product was ordinarily below its	costof  production.	 Further, the cost of  production  speciallythat of newsprint, went on varying and the frequent rises innewsprint price made it difficult to plan and undertake	 anylong term commitment of an increasing expenditure.(b) The	 income of the newspaper industry  was	principallyderived	  from	two  main  sources:  sales  of	copies	 andadvertisement.	 While sales depended on public	 acceptance,income	 from  advertisement  depended	 upon	circulation,prestige and purchasing power of readers.  All those factorsmade  publishing of newspapers a hazardous  undertaking	 andthe  hazard  continued throughout it-,	existence  with	 theresult	that  it was obligatory that the rates of  wages  orscales ,should be fixed at the minimum level, leaving it  tothe  employees to share the prosperity of the units  throughbonuses.(c)  It	 was not ordinarily easy for newspapers to  increasethe  selling  price and it had been the experience  of	someestablished newspapers that such a course, when adopted, hadinvariably  brought about a reduction in  circulation.	 Thefall  in  circulation had in turn an adverse effect  on	 theadvertisement revenue.	The sales or advertisement income ofa newspaper was not responsive to a progressive increase  inexpenditure.65(d)  In any fixation of wages of a section of employees, itseffect on other sections had to be taken into consideration.Editorial   employees  were  one  section  of  a   newspaperestablishment  and  any increase in their  emoluments  wouldhave  its  inevitable repercussions on the  wages  of  othersections.  The salaries of working Journalists would roughlybe one-fifth of the total wage bill.  The factory staff	 hada  great  bargaining power and as such any increase  in	 thesalaries  and  introduction  of	 scales	 in  the   editorialdepartment  would have to be followed by an increase in	 thewages and introduction of time scales in the factory   side.(e)  It was the advertisement revenue that principally decidedthe  capacity  to pay of a newspaper industry.	It  was	 notenough	to  take into consideration the gross revenue  of  anewspaper  alone  but also the proportion  of  advertisementrevenue in it.	This meant that minimum salaries and  scalesto be fixed on an All-India basis would perforce have to  below  if	 the  newpapers in language of regions	with  a	 lowpurchasing  power such as Kerala and Orissa were not  to  behandicapped.   It  would  therefore  be	 fair  both  to	 theindustry and employees if wages were fixed regionwise.(f)  The  proposals,  which the majority had  made,  clearlyshowed	that,  according to it the dominating  principle  ofwage  fixation	wag the need of the worker as  conceived  bythem, irrespective of its effect on the industry.  The Boardhad  not  before it sufficient data needed  for	 the  properassessment  of	the paying capacity of	the  industry.	 Theprofit	 and   loss  statements	 of  the   daily   newspaperestablishments	for  the year 19.54-55 as submitted  to	 theBoard  revealed that while 43 of them had shown	 profits  40had  incurred  losses.	 The.  condition  of  the  newspaperindustry  in the country as a whole could not be  consideredsatisfactory.	The proposals embodied in the decision	madeby  the	 majority were therefore unduly	 high.	 They  wouldimmediately  throw  a huge burden on many papers,  a  burdenwhich would progressively grow for some66years, and would be still bigger when its impact takes placeon  the wages of employees of its other sections.  All	thiswill  in  its  turn add to the	burden	of  provident  fund,gratuity,  etc.,  when the full impact of  the	burden	tookplace  and the wages of the entire newspaper  establishmentswent  up, it would throw out of gear the economy of most  ofthe  newspapers.   It might be that there may  not  be	manyclosures  immediately, because many of the newspapers  wouldnot  be in a position to meet the liability of	retrenchmentcompensation,  gratuity, etc., resulting from such  a  step,newspapers  would try to meet the liability by borrowing  tothe  extent  possible and when their credit  was  exhausted,they  must close down.	So far as new  newspaper  promotionswere concerned, they would be few and far between, with	 theresult	that  after a few years it would be found  that	 thenumber of daily newspapers in the country had not  increasedbut  had  gone	down.  Such an eventuality was	not  in	 theinterests  of  the country both from the point	of  view  ofemployment as well as of freedom of expression.(g)As	regards	 chains	 and  groups  the  criterion   forclassification	adopted	 by  the  majority  was	 unfair	 andunnatural.   The total gross revenue of all the units  in  achain  or a group gave an unreal picture of its capacity  topay.(h)Giving  of  retrospective effect, would  help  only	toaggravate  the troubles of the newspaper industry which	 hadbeen already called upon to devise ways and means of meetingthe burden of retrospective gratuity.(i)  As regards the prevalent rates of wages for  comparableemployments the nature of work of the working journalists innewspaper  establishments could not be compared	 with  otheravocations or professions and the rates of wages of  workingjournalists  should  be	 fixed only in the  context  of	 thefinancial condition of the newspaper industry.	 Comparison,could,	however, be made within limits, namely with  respectto alternative employments available to persons with similareducational   qualifications   in  particular	regions	  orlocalities.   From that point of view the salaries  paid  tosecondary school teachers, college and university67teachers and employees in commercial firms and banks  shouldbe  taken into consideration, but the majority had  rejectedthis view.The note of the chairman was meant to explain the reasons ofthe  decisions which he stated he at least had in  view	 andsome  of  which were accepted unanimously  and	others	wereaccepted  by  some  members  and  thereby  became   majoritydecisions.   At the outset the chairman explained that	mostof the recommendations of the Press Commission were intendedfor  the betterment of the economic condition of  small	 andmedium	newspapers, such as price page schedule,  telescopicrates	for   Government  advertisements  and	their	fairdistribution  among  newspapers, statutory  restrictions  onmalpractices  so as to eliminate cutthroat  competition	 andfixation of news agency tariff,-, which still remained to beimplemented and there had been no stability in the prices ofnewsprint which constituted a considerable proportion of theexpenditure   of  a  newspaper.	  These	 circumstances	 hadnecessitated  the fixing of a minimum wage lower  than	thatrecommended by the Press Commission.As  regards  fixation of the rates of  wages,  the  chairmanobserved:"In  fixing  the rates of wages, we have based them  on	 thecondition  of the newspaper industry as a whole and  not  onthe   effect  which  they  will	 produce  on  a	  particularnewspaper.  We can only proceed on the average gross  incomeof  a newspaper falling under the same class and not on	 thelowest	unit  in that class.  Otherwise, there	will  be  noimprovement  in any unit of the same class, and	 the  statusquo  might remain.  With the extremely divergent  conditionsobtaining  in  both  English  as  well	as  Indian  languagenewspapers,  it is impossible to try to avoid any  small  ormedium	newspaper being adversely affected.  When  the	toneand condition of journalism in India has to be brought on  ahigher level it is inevitable that in doing so, more or lessburden	will fall on several newspapers ; I realise that  incases  where  wages are very low and dearness  allowance  isalso low or even non-existent and there are no scales68at  all,  the reaction to our wage schedule will be  one  ofresentment  by the proprietors.	 Some anomalies may also  bepointed	 out; but it must be remembered that we had no	dataof all the newspapers before us and where we had, it was  inmany  cases not satisfactory. Under these circumstances,  wecannot satisfy all   newspapers	 as  well  as	journalists.However,  wehave tried to proceed on the basis	of  acceptedprinciples  also keeping in view the recommendations of	 thePress  Commission  and not on the editorial  expenditure  ofeach  newspaper.  I am also of the opinion that by  rationalmanagement there is great scope for increasing the income ofnewspapers and we have evidence before us that the future ofthe  Indian language newspapers is bright, having regard  toincreasing   literacy	and   the   growth   of	   politicalconsciousness  of the reading public.  When there  are	widedisparities,  there  cannot be any  adjustment	which  mightsatisfy	 all  persons interested.  We hope no  newspaper  isforced	to close down as a result of our decision.   But  ifthere is a good paper and it deserves to exist, we hope	 theGovernment and the public will help it to continue."The chairman then proceeded to observe:" We do not consider it a matter of regret if our  decisionsdiscourage  the entry into this industry of persons  withoutthe  necessary	resources  required for	 the  payment  of  areasonable  minimum wage.  While we are anxious	 to  promoteand  encourage the growth of small newspapers, we also	feelstrongly that it should not be at the expense of the workingjournalists.   The same applies, in our view, to  newspapersstarted for political, religious or any other propaganda."The  reason  for grouping all the constituent units  of	 thesame  group or chain in the same class in which	 they  wouldfall  on the basis of the total gross income of	 the  entireestablishment was given by the chairman as under:-" One of the difficult tasks before us was to fix the  wagesof  Journalists	 working in newspapers which  have  recentlycome to exist in our country.  All the69accounts of the constituent units in the same group or chainare  merged together with the result that the losses of	 theweaker	units are borne from the high income  of  prosperousunits.	 There	is considerable disparity in  the  wages  ofjournalists  doing  the	 same kind of work  in	the  variousconstituent units situated in different centres.  The  PressCommission  has	 strongly  criticised the  methods  of	suchchains	 and  groups  and  their  adverse  effects  on	 theemployees.   We	 have decided to group all  the	 constituentunits of the same group or chain in the same class in  whichthey  would fall on the basis of the total gross  income  ofthe entire establishment.  We are conscious that as a resultof this decision, some of the journalists in the weak  unitsof  the	 same group or chain may get much  more	 than  thoseworking	 in  its  highest income  units.   If  however,	 ourprinciple  is good and scientific, the inevitable result  ofits  application  should be judged from the  stand-point  ofIndian Journalism as a whole and not on the burden it  castson a particular establishment.	It may be added that in	 ourview, the principle on which we have proceeded is one of themain steps to give effect to the views expressed by theThe   chairman	then  referred	to  the	 points	 which	 therepresentatives	 of the newspaper employers had urged as  tothe -burden which might be cast as a result of the decisionsand expressed himself as under:"  I  sympathise with their view point and  in	my  opinion,looking	 to all the circumstances, especially the fact	thatthis  is  the  first  attempt to  fix  rates  of  wages	 forjournalists,  it is probable that some anomalies may  resultfrom   the  implementation  of	our  decisions.	   We	are,therefore, averse to imposing a wage schedule of all classesof  newspapers on a permanent basis.  It is, thus  importantthat the wage rates fixed by us should be open to review andrevision  in the light of experience gained within a  periodof 3 to 5 years.  This becomes necessary especially in	viewof  the fact that the data available to us have not been  ascomplete  as  we  would have wished them  to  be,  and	alsobecause it is difficult for us at this stage to70work  out  with any degree of precision,  the  economic	 andother effects of our decisions on the newspaper industry  asa whole."The  chairman suggested as a palliative the creation by	 theGovernment    of   India   immediately	 of   a	   standsingadministrative machinery "which could also combine in itselfthe   functions	 of  implementing  and	 administering	 ourdecisions  and that of preparing the ground for	 the  reviewand  revision envisaged after 3 to 5 years.  This  machineryshould	collect	 from all newspaper  establishments  in	 thecountry	 on systematic basis detailed information  and	datasuch  as  those	 on employment, wage  rates,  and  earnings,financial condition of papers, figures of circulation, etc.,which  may be required for the assessment of the effects  ofour decisions at the time of the review."The  above decision of the Wage Board was published  by	 theCentral	 Government  in the Gazette of	India  Extraordinarydated  May  11, 1957.  The Commissioner of  Labour,  Madras,issued	a  circular  on	 May  30,  1957,  calling  upon	 themanagements of all newspaper establishments in the State  tosend  to him the report of the gross revenue for  the  threeyears,	i. e., 1952, 1953 and 1954, within a period  of	 onemonth  from  the  date of the  publication  of	the  Board'sdecision,  i.  e.,  not	 later than  June  10,	1957.	WritPetition  No.  91 of 1957 was thereupon filed  on  June	 13,1957, by the Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd., against	 theUnion of India & others and this petition was followed up bysimilar	 petitions  filed on August 9, 1957,  by  the  PressTrust  of  India  Ltd., the Indian National  Press  (Bombay)Private Ltd., and the Saurashtra Trust, being Petitions Nos.99, 100, and 101 of 1957 respectively.	The Hindustan  TimesLtd.,  New  Delhi  filed  on  August  23,  1957,  a  similarpetition,  being  Petition No. 103 of 1957, and	 three	morepetitions,  being Petitions Nos. 116, 117 and 118  of  1957,were filed by the Loksatta Karyalaya, Baroda, Sandesh  Ltd.'Ahmedabad and Jan Satta Karyalaya, Ahmedabad,  respectively,on September 18, 1957.The  Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd., the  petitioners  inPetition No. 91 of 1957, otherwise termed71the  "	Express	 Group	", are	the  biggest  chain  in	 thenewspaper world in India.  They publish (i) Indian  Express,an  English Daily, from Madras, Bombay, Delhi  and  Madurai,(ii) Sunday Standard, an English Weekly, from three centres-Madras, Bombay and Delhi, (iii) Dinmani, a Tamil Daily	fromMadras and Madurai, (iv) Dinmani Kadir, a Tamil Weekly	fromMadras,	  (v)  Lokasatta,  a  Maratha  Daily,	and   SundayLokasatta,  a Maratha Weekly, from Bombay, (vi)	 Screen,  anEnglish Weekly from Bombay and (vii) Andhra Prabha, a TeluguDaily  and Weekly.  The total number of working	 journalistsemployed  by them are 331, out of whom there are  123  proofreaders,  as against 1570 who form the other members of	 thestaff.	The present emoluments of the working journalists intheir employ amount to Rs. 9,77,892, whereas if the decisionof  the Wage Board were given effect to they would go up  toRs.  15,21,282-12  thus	 increasing the	 wage  bill  of	 theworking journalists annually by Rs. 5,43,390-12.  They wouldalso   have   to   pay	 remuneration	to   the   part-timecorrespondents	on the basis of retainer as well as  paymentfor  news  items  on column basis.  That  would	 involve  anadditional  burden  of	about  Rs.  1  lakh  a	year.	 Theretrospective  operation of the Wage Board's  decision	witheffect from May 2, 1956, in their case would further involvea  payment  of	Rs. 5,16,337-20.  This would  be  the  extraburden	not taking account the liability for  past  gratuityand  the recurring gratuity as awarded under the  provisionsof the Act and also the increased burden which would have tobe borne by reason of the impact of the provisions in regardto  reduced  hours  of working,	 increase  in  leave,  etc.,provided  therein.  If, moreover, the members of  the  staffwho   are  not	included  in  the  definition	of   workingjournalists  made  similar  demands  for  increasing   theiremoluments  and bettering their conditions of  service	thenthere  would be an additional burden which is  estimated  atRs. 9,92,443-68.The  Press Trust of India Ltd., the petitioners in  PetitionNo.  99	 of  1957,  are	 a  non-profit	making	 cooperativeorganization of newspaper proprietors.	They72employ	820  employees in all, out of whom 170	are  workingjournalists  and  650 do not come  within  that	 definition.Their	total	wage  bill  is	Rs.   21,00,000	  per	year(approximately)	 out  of  which the  annual  salary  of	 theworking journalists is Rs. 9,00,000.  The ,increase in theirwage  bill  due	 to increase in the salary  of	the  workingjournalists  as	 per the decision of the. Wage	Board  wouldcome  to Rs. 4,05,600 and they would have to pay by  way  ofarrears	 by  reason of the retrospective  operation  of	 thedecision  another  sum	of  Rs.	 4,05,600  to  the   workingjournalists.   There would also be an  additional  financialburden	of Rs. 60,000 every year by reason of the  recurringincrements   in	  the  monthly	salaries  of   the   workingjournalists  employed by them.	If the benefits of the	WageBoard  decision	 were extended to the other members  of	 thestaff who are not working journalists within the  definitionof that term but who have also made similar demands on them,a further annual burden would be imposed on the	 petitionerswhich  is  estimated  at Rs.  3,90,000.	  If  perchance	 thepetitioners not being able to run their concern except at  aloss intended to close down the same, the amount which	theywould have to pay to the working journalists under the	pro-visions of the Act and the decision of the Wage Board  wouldbe  Rs. 23,68,500 as against the old scale liability of	 Rs.11,62,500 and the other members of the staff who do not fallwithin the category of working journalists would have to  bepaid a further sum of Rs. 15,50,000.  The total liability ofthe  petitioners  in  such  an event  would  amount  to	 Rs.39,18,000 as against the old liability of Rs. 27,12,500.The  Indian National Press (Bombay) Private Ltd.,  otherwiseknown  as the Free Press Group, are petitioners in  PetitionNo.  100  of 1957.  They publish (i) Free Press	 Journal,  amorning	 English Daily (ii) Free Press Bulletin, an  eveningEnglish	 Daily	(iii) Bharat Jyoti, an English	Weekly	(iv)Janashakti, a morning Gujarati Daily and (v) Navashakthi,  aMarathi	 Dailyall  from Bombay.	 They employ  442  employeesincluding  part-time  correspondents  out  of  whom  65	 areworking journalists and 21 are proof readers and the73rest form members of the other staff not falling within	 thecategory of working journalists.  The effect of the decisionof  the Wage Board would be that there would have to  be  animmediate   payment  of	 Rs.  1,73,811	by  reason  of	 theretrospective operation of the decision and there will	alsobe an annual 'increase in the wage bill to the same  extent,i. e., Rs. 1,73,811.  There will also be a yearly  recurringincrease to the extent of Rs. 22,470 and also  correspondingincrease  for contribution to the provident fund on  accountof  increase in salary.	 Under the provisions of the Act  inregard	to  reduced hours of work, and	increase  in  leave,moreover, there will be an increase in liability to pay	 Rs.90,669	and Rs. 29,806 respectively, in the case of  workingjournalists,  besides  the liability for  past	gratuity  inanother	 sum of Rs. 1,08,534 and recurring annual  liabilityfor  gratuity in a sum of Rs. 17,995.  If  similar  benefitswould have to be given to the other members of the staff whodo not fall within the definition of working journalists theannual	burden would be increased by a sum of Rs.  1,80,000.This  would  be the position by reason	of  the	 petitionersbeing  classified and treated as a chain of  newspapers	 andhaving	 been	classified  as	"  A   "   class   newspaperestablishment on a total computation of the gross revenue ofall  their  units.   If they were not  so  treated  and	 thecomponent  units were classified on their  individual  grossrevenue the result would be that the Free Press Journal, theFree  Press Bulletin and the Bharat Jyoti would fall  withinclass  " A ", and Navashakti would fall within class "	C  "and  Janashakti would fall within class "D" thus  minimisingthe burden imposed upon them by the impact of the Wage Boarddecision.The Saurashtra Trust, the petitioners in Petition No. 101 of1957,  are another chain of newspapers and they publish	 (i)Janmabhoomi,  a Gujrati Daily from Bombay, (ii)	 Janmabhoomiand Pravasi, a Gujrati Weekly from Bombay, (iii) Lokmanya, aMarathi	 Daily	from Bombay, (iv) Vyapar, a  Gujrati  Weeklycommercial paper from Bombay, (v) Fulchhab, a Gujrati  Dailyfrom Rajkot, (vi) Pratap, a Gujrati1074Daily from Surat, (vii) Cuttccha Mitra, a Gujrati Daily fromBhuj  (Cutch) and, (viii) Nav Bharat, a Gujrati	 Daily	fromBaroda.	  They	employ	445 employees out  of  whom  60	 areworking	 journalists  and  12, proof readers  and  the	restbelong to the other members of the staff.  The effect of theWage  Board  decision on them would be to impose on  them  aburden	of  Rs.	 1,59,528 by  reason  of  the  retrospectiveoperation of the decision and an annual increase in the wagebill of Rs. 1,59,528 for the first year and an annual recur-ring  increase of Rs. 22,000.  The operation of ss. 6 and  7of the Act in regard to reduced hours of work and  provisionfor increased leave would impose an additional burden of Rs.42,000	per year.  The liability for pastgratuity  would  beRs.  93,376  and the recurring annual increase	in  gratuitywould be Rs. 11,000.  If similar benefits were also given tothe  other  members  of	 the  staff  who  were	not  workingjournalists the annual burden will increase by Rs. 5,18,964,by  reason  of their classification as "A"  class  newspaperestablishment on a chain basis, all the component units havegot  to be treated as "A" class newspapers, whereas if	theywere  classified  on a computation of the gross	 revenue  oftheir component units Vyapar would fall within Class "B" theJanmabhoomi and Lokmanya would fall within Class "C" and theCutccha	 Mitra, Fulchhab and Pratap would fall within  Class"E".   The inequity of this measure is, moreover, sought  tobe  augmented  by  their  pointing  out	 that  whereas	 theJanmabhoomi  from Bombay is placed in the "A" Class,  BombaySamachar  (Bombay),  a morning Gujrati	Daily  from  Bombay,which has a larger gross revenue than Janmabhoomi taken as asingle unit is placed in Class B. Similarly, the Pratap fromSurat  is placed in Class A, whereas the Gujrat	 Mitra	fromSurat  which has a larger gross revenue than the  Pratap  isplaced	in Class "B" because of its being treated as a	unitby  itself; and the Fulchhab from Rajkot is also  placed  inClass  "A",  whereas the Jaihind from Rajkot,  which  has  alarger	gross revenue than the Fulchhab, is placed in  Class"C" for an identical reason.  The total cost of closing downthe concern, if perchance75the  petitioners  have	to  so close  down  owing  to  theirinability  to  carry on the business except at	a  loss,  isworked	out at Rs. 6,13,921 for the working  journalists  asagainst	 the old basis of Rs. 1,00,890.	 The figure for	 therest  of  the  staff  who are  not  working  journalists  iscomputed at Rs. 3,08,112 with the result that the total costof closing down on the new basis under the provisions of theAct and the decision of the Wage Board would be Rs. 9,22,033as  against  what  otherwise would have been a	sum  of	 Rs.4,09,002.The  Hindustan	Times Ltd., New Delhi,	the  petitioners  inPetition  No. 103 of 1957, otherwise called  "the  HindustanTimes  Group",	publish	 (i)  Hindustan	 Times,	 an  English(morning)  Daily,  (ii) Hindustan Times	 (Evening  News)  anEnglish (evening) Daily, (iii) Overseas Hindustan Times,  anEnglish	 Weekly,  (iv)	Hindustan, a Hindi  Daily,  and	 (v)Saptahik  Hindustan,  a Hindi Weekly-all from  Delhi.	Theyemploy	a total number of 695 employees out of whom  79	 areworking	 journalists,  14 are proof readers  and  the  rest,viz., 602 are other members of the staff.  The wages paid tothe working journalists absorb about one-third of the  totalwage  bill as against 602 other members of the	staff  whosewage  bill  constitutes the remaining  two-thirds.   If	 thedecision   of  the  Wage  Board	 is  given  effect  to	 thepetitioners  would be subjected to the following  additionalliabilities  in respect of working journalists alone  :	 (i)Increase in the annual wage bill Rs. 2,16,000 (Approx.) (ii)Arrears of payments from May 2, 1956, to April 30,1957,	 Rs.1,89,000  (iii) Past liability in respect of gratuity as  onMarch 31, 1957, Rs. 2,65,000 (iv) Recurring annual liabilityof  gratuity Rs. 28,000.  The total liability thus comes  toRs.  6,98,000.	The above figures do not  include  increasedliability  on  account	of  the	 petitioners'	contributiontowards provident fund, leave rules and payment to part-timecorrespondents.	  There	 would also be a  further  recurringincrease in the wage bill by reason of the increments  whichwould have to be given to the various categories of  workingjournalists  on the scales of wages prescribed by  the	WageBoard.	 If other members of the staff (who are not  workingjournalists") were to be considered for76increase in their emoluments, etc., there will be a  furtherburden on the petitioners computed as under:(a)Increase in the annual wage bill, Rs. 5,02,000 (Approx.),(b) arrears of payments from May 2, 1956, to April 30, 1957,Rs.  4,51,000  (Approx.), (c) Past liability in	 respect  ofgratuity  as on March 31, 1957, Rs. 5,50,000 (Approx.),	 (d)Recurring   annual   liability	for  gratuity	Rs.   60,000(Approx.). The total comes to Rs. 15,63,000.The petitioners in Petition No. 116 of 1957 are the LoksattaKaryalaya,  Baroda, which publish the Loksatta,	 a  GujaratiDaily from Baroda.  They employ 15 working journalists.	 Theannual	wage  bill of working journalists would have  to  beincreased by reason of the decision of the Wage Board by Rs.10,800;	 the  burden of payment of  retrospective  liabilitybeing Rs. 9,600.  Moreover, there will be a recurring annualburden of Rs. 6,340 inclusive of the expenditure involved byreason	of  the	 provisions  as	 to  (i)  Notice  pay,	(ii)Gratuity,  (iii)  Retrenchment compensation and	 (iv)  Extraburden of reduced hours of work and increased leave.The  Sandesh  Ltd., the petitioners in Petition No.  117  of1957,  otherwise  styled,  the Sandesh	Group,	Ahmeda	bad,publish	 (i) Sandesh, a morning Gujarati Daily, (ii)  Sevak,an  evening  Gujarati Daily, (iii) Bal Sandesh,	 a  GujaratiWeekly,	 and  (iv)  Aram,  and	(v)  Sat  Sandesh,  GujaratiMonthlies-all from Ahmedabad.  They employ a total staff  of205 employees out of whom there are 11 working	journalists,7  proof  readers  and the rest	 187  constitute  the  othermembers of the staff.  The increase in the wage bill of	 theworking journalists under the provisions of the Act would beRs.  24,807  per year besides a similar	 liability  for	 Rs.24,807	by  reason  of the retrospective  operation  of	 thedecision.   There will be an increase in expenditure to	 thetune  of Rs. 30,900 by reason of the reduced  working  hoursand  increase in leave and holidays, a liability of Rs.	 31,597  for  past	gratuity  and  Rs.  24,807  every  year	 forrecurring gratuity as also Rs. 1,530 for recurring  increasein  wages of the working journalists.  The financial  burdenin the case of proof-readers who77are included in the definition of working journalists tinderthe  terms  of	the Act would be Rs.  5,724  per  year.	  Ifsimilar	 benefits were to be given to the other	 members  ofthe  staff  who	 are  not  working  journalists	 the  annualincrease  in  the burden will be Rs.  1,89,816.	  The  totalcosts	of  closing  down  if  such  an	 eventuality'	werecontemplated   would  be  Rs.  1,08,997	 for   the   workingjournalists only as against a liability of Rs. 22,755 on theold basis.  The other members of the staff would have to  bepaid  Rs.  1,46,351 and the total cost of closing  down	 thewhole concern would thus conic to Rs. 2,55,349 under the newdispensation as against Rs. 1,69,106 as of old.The  Jansatta Karyalaya, Ahmedabad, petitioners in  PetitionNo. 118 of 1957 bring out (i) Jansatta, a Gujarati Daily and(ii) Chandni a Gujarati Monthly from Ahmedabad.	 They employ15 working journalists, 6 proof-readers and 87 other membersof  the staff thus making a total number of  108  employees.The  increase  in the wage-bill of the	working	 journalistswould  come to Rs. 29,808.  The liability for past  gratuitywould  be Rs. 6,624 and the recurring annual gratuity  wouldbe  Rs.	 2,303 and the annual recurring	 increase  in  wageswould  come to Rs. 2,280.  The financial burden in  case  ofproof-readers  would  be  Rs.  6,480 per  year	as  per	 thedecision  of the Wage Board.  If similar benefits had to  begiven to the other members of the staff who are	 non-workingjournalists  the annual burden will increase by Rs.  48,720.The  total cost of closing down, if such a contingency	everarose,	would come to Rs. 1,00,798 under the  provisions  ofthe Act and the Wage Board decision as against Rs. 45,206 onthe old basis.All  these  petitions filed by the  several  petitioners  asabove followed a common pattern.  After succinctly  recitingthe  history of the events narrated above which led  to	 theenactment  of the impugned Act and the decision of the	WageBoard, they challenged the vires of the Act and the decisionof  the Wage Board.  The vires of the Act was challenged  onthe ground that the provisions thereof were violative of thefundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution under Art.19(1)(a),78Art. 19(1)(g), and Art. 14 ; but in the course of the  argu-ments  before  us another Article, viz., Art.  32  was	alsoadded as having been infringed by the Act.  The decision  ofthe Wage Board was challenged on various grounds which	werein  pari materia with the objections that had been urged  bythe  representatives of the employers in the Wage  Board  intheir  minute  of dissent above referred to.   It  was	alsocontended  that the implementation of the decision would  bebeyond	the capacity of the petitioners and would result  intheir  titter collapse.	 The reply made by  the	 respondentswas  that  none of the fundamental rights  guaranteed  underArt.  19(1)(a), Art. 19(1)(g), Art. 14 and/or Art.  32	wereinfringed  by  the impugned Act, that the functions  of	 theWage Board were not judicial or quasijudicial in  character,that  the fixation of the rates of wages was  a	 legislativeact  and not a judicial one, that the decision of  the	WageBoard  bad been arrived at after taking	 into  considerationall the criteria for fixation of wages under s. 9(1) of	 theAct and the material as well as the evidence led before	 it,that a considerable portion of the decisions recorded by theWage Board were unanimous, that the Wage Board had the powerand  authority also to fix the scales of wages and  to	giveretrospective  operation  to  its  decision,  and  that	 thefinancial  position  of the petitioners was not such  as  tolead  to  their collapse as a result of the  impact  of	 theprovisions of the impugned Act and the decision of the	WageBoard.The  petitioners in Petitions Nos. 91 of' 1957, 99 of  1957,100  of	 1957,	101  of 1957 and  103  of  1957	 also  filedpetitions  for special leave to appeal against the  decisionof  the Wage Board being Petitions Nos. 323, 346,  347,	 348and  359  of 1957 respectively and this	 Court	granted	 thespecial	 leave in all these petitions under Art. 136 of	 theConstitution subject to the question of the  maintainabilityof the appeals being open to be urged at the hearing.  CivilAppeals	 arising out of these special leave  petitions	wereordered to be placed along with the Writ Petitions aforesaidfor hearing and final disposal and Civil Appeals Nos. 699 of1957, 700 of 1957, 701 of 1957, 702 of 1957 and 703 of 195779arising	 therefrom  thus  came	up  for	 hearing  and  finaldisposal before us along with the Writ Petitions under	Art.32  mentioned  above.  We took up the hearing  of  the	WritPetitions  first  as they were more comprehensive  in  scopethan  the Civil Appeals filed by the respective parties	 andheard  counsel	at  considerable  length  on  the  questionsarising for our determination therein.Before	we  discuss the vires of the impugned  Act  and	 thedecision  of the Wage Board, it will be appropriate at	thisjuncture  to clear the ground by considering the  principlesof wage fixation and the machinery employed for the  purposein  various  countries.	 Broadly speaking  wages  have	beenclassified into three categories, viz., (1) the living wage,(2) the fair wage and(3) the minimum wage.The concept of the living wage:"The  concept  of the living wage which has  influenced	 thefixation   of  wages,  statutorily  or	otherwise,  in	 alleconomically   advanced	 countries  is	an  old	 and   well-established one, but most of the current definitions are  ofrecent origin.	The most expressive definition of the livingwage   is  that	 of  Justice  Higgins  of   the	  AustralianCommonwealth  Court of Conciliation in the  Harvester  case.He  defined  the living wage as one appropriate	 for  "	 thenormal	needs of the average employee, regarded as  a  humanbeing  living  in a civilized community ".  Justice  Higginshas,  at  other	 places, explained what	 he  meant  by	thiscryptic	 pronouncement.	  The living wage must	provide	 notmerely	for  absolute essentials such as food,	shelter	 andclothing  but for " a condition of frugal comfort  estimatedby current human standards." He explained himself further bysaying that it was a wage " sufficient to insure the workmenfood,  shelter, clothing frugal comfort, provision for	evildays,  etc., as well as regard for the special skill  of  anartisan	 if  he is one ". In a subsequent case	he  observedthat  " treating marriage as the usual fate of adult men,  awage  which does not allow of the matrimonial condition	 andthe maintenance of about five persons in a home would not betreated	  as  a	 living	 wage".	  According  to	 the   SouthAustralian Act of 1912, the living wage means " a sum80sufficient  for	 the  normal and  reasonable  needs  of	 theaverage	 employee  living  in a locality  where	 work  underconsideration  is  done or is to be  done."  The  QueenslandIndustrial  Conciliation and Arbitration Act  provides	thatthe  basic wage paid to an adult male employee shall not  beless  than  is	" sufficient to	 maintain  a  well-conductedemployee of average health, strength and competence and	 hiswife  and a family of three children in a fair	and  averagestandard  of  comfort, having regard to	 the  conditions  ofliving prevailing among employees in the calling in  respectof  which  such basic wage is fixed, and  provided  that  infixing such basic wage the earnings of the children or	wifeof  such  employee shall not be taken into account ".  In  aTentative  Budget Inquiry conducted in the United States  ofAmerica	 in  1919 the Commissioner of the Bureau  of  LabourStatistics  analysed  the budgets with	reference  to  threeconcepts, viz.,(i)  the pauper and poverty level,(ii) the minimum of subsistence level, and,(iii)	  the  minimum	of  health  and	 comfort   level,andadopted	 the last for the determination of the living  wage.The Royal Commission on the Basic Wage for the	Commonwealthof  Australia approved of this course and proceeded  throughnorms and budget enquiries to ascertain what the minimum  ofhealth	and comfort level should be.  The commission  quotedwith  approval the description of the minimum of health	 andcomfort level in the following terms:"  This	 represents  a slightly higher level  than  that  ofsubsistence,  providing not only for the material  needs  offood,  shelter,	 and body covering   but  also	for  certaincomforts,  such as clothing sufficient for  bodily  comfort,and  to	 maintain the wearer's instinct of  selfrespect	 anddecency,   some	  insurance  against  the   more   importantmisfortunes-death,  disability and fire--good education	 forthe children, some amusement, and some expenditure for self-development."Writing	 practically  in  the  same  language,	the   UnitedProvinces  Labour  Enquiry  Committee  classified  level  ofliving standard in four categories, viz.,(i)  the poverty level,81(ii) the minimum subsistence level,(iii)the subsistence plus level and(iv) the comfort level,and  chose the subsistence plus. level as the basis of	whatit  called  the "minimum living wage".	The  Bombay  TextileLabour	Inquiry Committee, 1937, considered the living	wagestandard  at  considerable length and, while  accepting	 theconcept	 of the living wage as described above, observed  asfollows:"....... what we have to attempt is not an exact measurementof a well-defined concept.  Any definition of a standard  ofliving is necessarily descriptive rather than logical.	 Anyminimum,   after  all,	is  arbitrary  and   relative.	  Nocompletely objective and absolute meaning can be attached toa  term	 like  the  living  wage  standard  "  and  it	 hasnecessarily  to be judged in the light of the  circumstancesof the particular time and country."The  Committee then proceeded through the use of  norms	 andstandard budgets to lay down what the basic wage should	 be,so that it might approximate to the living, wage standard  "in the light of the circumstances of the particular time andcountry."The Minimum Wage-Fixing Machinery published by the 1. L.  O.has summarised these views as follows:"  In  different countries estimates have been made  of	 theamount of a living wage, but the estimates vary according tothe  point  of view of the investigator.  Estimates  may  beclassified into at least three groups:(1)  the amount necessary for mere subsistence,(2)  the amount necessary for health and decency,and(3)  the amount necessary to provide a standard of comfort."It  will  be seen from this summary of the concepts  of	 theliving wage held in various parts of the world that there isgeneral argument that the living wage should enable the maleearlier to provide for himself and his family not merely thebare essentials of food, clothing and shelter but a  measureof  frugal  comfort including education	 for  the  children,protection against ill-health,1182requirements  of  essential social needs, and a	 measure  ofinsurance  against the more important misfortunes  includingold age.  " (1)Article	 43 of our Constitution has also adopted as  one  ofthe Directive Principles of State Policy that:The State shall endeavour to secure, by suitable legislationor  economic  Organisation  or	in any	other  way,  to	 allworkers,  agricultural,	 industrial or	otherwise,  work,  aliving	wage, conditions of work ensuring a decent  standardof  life  and  full  enjoyment of  leisure  and	 social	 andcultural opportunities................"This  is the ideal to which our social welfare State has  toapproximate   in  an  attempt  to  ameliorate	the   livingconditions of the workers.The concept of the minimum wage:"  The	International  Convention  of  1928  prescribes	 thesetting up of minimum wage-fixing machinery in industries inwhich  " no arrangements exist for the effective  regulationof wages by collective agreement or otherwise and wages	 areexceptionally low"............" As a rule, though the living wage is the target, it has tobe   tempered,	 even  in  advanced  countries,	  by   otherconsiderations,	 particularly the general level of wages  inother industries and the capacity of industry to pay.	Thisview has been accepted by the Bombay Textile Labour  InquiryCommittee which says that " the living wage basis affords anabsolute  external  standard for the  determination  of	 theminimum " and that " where a living wage criterion has	beenused in the giving of ail award or the fixing of a wage, thedecision has always been tempered by other considerations ofa practical character."" In India, however, the level of the national income is  solow  at	 present  that it is  generally	 accepted  that	 thecountry	 cannot	 afford to prescribe by law a  minimum	wagewhich would correspond to the concept of the living wage  asdescribed in the preceding paragraphs.	What then should  bethe  level  of minimum wage which call be sustained  by	 thepresent stage of the country's economy?	 Most employers	 andsome.(1)  Report  of the Committee on Fair Wagss (1947 to  1949),pp- 5-7,paras. 6&  7.83Provincial Governments consider that the minimum wage can atpresent be only a bare subsistence wage.  In fact, even	 oneimportant All-India Organisation of employees has  suggestedthat  " a minimum wage is that wage which is  sufficient  tocover  the bare physical needs of a worker and his  family."Many  others,';	 however.......... consider that  a  minimumwage   should	also  provide  for  some   other   essentialrequirements  such  as	a  minimum  of	education,   medicalfacilities and other amenities.	 We consider that a  minimumwage must provide not merely for the bare sustenance of lifebut  for the preservation of the efficiency of	the  worker.For  this  purpose, the minimum wage must also	provide	 forsome   measure	of  education,	medical	 requirements,	 andamenities.This  is the concept of the " minimum wage " adopted by	 theCommittee  on Fair Wages.  There are however  variations  ofthat concept and a distinction has been drawn, for instance,in Australian industrial terminology between the basic	wageand the minimumwage.-"  The	basic  wage there approximates	to  a  bare  minimumsubsistence  wage  and no normal adult male  covered  by  anaward  is  permitted to work a full standard hours  week  atless  than the assessed basic wage rate.  The basic wage  isexpressed  as  the  minimum  at	 which	normal	adult	maleunskilled  workers may legally be employed,  differing	fromthe  amounts  fixed as legal minima for	 skilled  and  semi-skilled	  workers,   piece  workers   and   casual   workersrespectively......................................The  minimum wage is the lowest rate at which members  of  aspecified grade of workers may legally be employed.  " (2)There  is also a distinction between a bare  subsistence  orminimum wage and a statutory minimum wage.  The former is  awage  which would be sufficient to cover the  bare  physicalneeds of a worker and his family, that is, a rate which	 hasgot to be paid to the worker irrespective of the capacity ofthe industry to(i)  Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, PP. 7-9,  paras,8-10.(2)  O.D.R.  Feenander	Industrial Regulation  in  Australia(1947), Ch.  XVII,P. 155.84pay.   If  an industry is unable to pay to  its	 workmen  atleast a bare minimum wage it has no right to exist.  As	 wasobserved  by us in Messrs.  Crown Aluminium Works  v.  TheirWorkmen (1):" It is quite likely that in underdeveloped countries, whereunemployment  prevails	on a very  arge	 scale,	 unorganisedlabour	may  be	 available  on	starvation  wages,  but	 theemployment   of	 labour	 on  Starvation	 wages	 cannot	  beencouraged or favored in a modern democratic welfare  state.If  an	employer  cannot  maintain  his	 enterprise  withoutcutting	 down the wages of his employees below even a  bar(,subsistence  or	 minimum  wage, he would have  no  right  toconduct his enterprise on such terms."The  statutory minimum wage however is the minimum which  isprescribed by the statute and it may be higher than the baresubsistence  or minimum wage, providing for some measure  ofeducation,   medical   requirements   and   amenities,	  ascontemplated  above. (Cf. also the connotation of "  minimumrate  of wages " in s. 4 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948	 (XIof 1948)).The concept of the fair wage:" The payment of fair wages to labour is one of the cardinalrecommendations	     of	     the      Industrial       TruceResolution..................  Marshall	would  consider	 therate of wages prevailing in an occupation as " fair " if  itis  " about on level with the average payment for. tasks  inother	trades	 which	 are   of   equal   difficulty	 anddisagreeableness,   which  require  equally   rare   naturalabilities  and	an equally expensive training."	 Prof  Pigouwould apply two degrees of fairness in judging a wage  rate,viz.,  "fair in the narrower sense" and " fair in the  widersense  ".  A  wage rate, in his opinion,  is  "fair  in	 thenarrower  sense"  when it is equal to the rate	current	 forsimilar workmen in the same trade and neighborhood and "fairin the wider sense" when it is equal to the predominant ratefor   similar  work  throughout	 the  country  and  in	 thegenerality of trades.  "" The Indian National Trade Union Congress......(1)  [1958] S.C.R 651.85agreements,  arbitrators, and adjudicators could at best  betreated,  like the minimum wage, as the starting  point	 andthat  wherever the capacity of an industry to pay  a  higherwage is established, such a higher wage should be deemed  tobe the fair wage.  The minimum a wage should have no  regardto  the capacity of an industry to pay and should  be  basedsolely on the requirements of the worker and his family.   "A  fair	 wages " is, in the opinion of the  Indian  NationalTrade  Union  Congress,	 " a step  towards  the	 progressiverealization of a living wage ". Several employers while theyare  inclined  to  the view that fair wages  would,  in	 theinitial	 stages,  be closely related to current	 wages,	 areprepared  to agree that the prevailing rates could  suitablybe enhanced according to the capacity of an industry to	 payand that the fair" age would in time progressively  approachthe  living  wage.   It	 is necessary  to  quote  one  otheropinion,  viz., that of the Government of Bombay, which	 hashad   considerable   experience	 in  the  matter   of	wageregulation.  The opinion of that Government is as follows:" Nothing short of a living wage can be a fair wage if undercompetitive  conditions	 an  industry can  be  shown  to  becapable	 of  paying a full living wage.	  The  minimum	wagestandards set up the irreducible level, the lowest limit  orthe floor below which no workers shall be paid............ Afair wage is settled above the minimum wage and goes throughthe process of approximating towards a living wage.  "While the lower limit of the fair wage must obviously be theminimum	 wage,	the upper limit is equally set by  what	 maybroadly	 be  called the capacity of industry to	 pay.	Thiswill depend not only on the present economic position of theindustry  but  on its future prospects.	 Between  these	 twolimits the actual ",-ages will depend on a consideration  ofthe following factors and in the light of the comments givenbelow:(i)  the productivity of labour;(ii) the prevailing rates of wages in the same or86similar occupations in the same or neighbouring localities;(iii)	  the	level  of  the	national  income   and	 itsdistribution ;and(iv) the place of the industry in the economy of thecountry...............	  (1).It  will  be noticed that the " fair wage " is thus  a	meanbetween	 the living wage and the minimum wage and  even	 theminimum	 wage contemplated above is something more than	 thebare  minimum or subsistence wage which would be  sufficientto  cover  the	bare physical needs of the  worker  and	 hisfamily, a wage which would provide also for the preservationof  the	 efficiency of the worker and for  some	 measure  ofeducation, medical requirements and amenities.This concept of minimum wage is in harmony with the  advanceof  thought in all civilised countries and  approximates  tothe statutory minimum wage which the State should strive  toachieve	 having regard to the Directive Principle  of  StatePolicy mentioned above.The  enactment	of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948,	 affords  anillustration  of an attempt to provide a statutory  minimum.wage.  It was an Act to provide for fixing minimum rates  ofwages in certain employments and the appropriate  Governmentwas  thereby  empowered to fix different  minimum  rates  ofwages	for  (i)  different  scheduled	 employments;	(ii)different classes of work in the same scheduled	 employment;(iii)  adult-,, adolescents, children and  apprentices;	 and(iv)  different	 localities; and (v) such minimum  rates  ofwages  could  be  fixed by the hour, by the day	 or  by	 anylarger period as may be prescribedIt will also be noticed that the content of the	 expressionsminimum wage fair wage " and " living wage is not fixed	 andstatic.	  It varies and is bound to vary from time to  time.With the growth and Development of national economy,  livingstandards  Would improve and so would our notions about	 therespective   categories	  of  wages  expand  and   be	moreprogressive.(1)  Report  of	 the Committee on Fair Wages, PP.  4,  9-11,paras, 11-15.87It must however be remembered that whereas the bare  minimumor  subsistence wage would have to be fixed irrespective  ofthe  capacity of the industry to pay, the minimum wagg	thuscontemplated postulates the capacity of the industry to	 payand no fixation of wages which ignores this essential factorof  the	 capacity  of  the industry to	pav  could  ever  besupported.Fixation of Scales of Wages:-A  question  arises as to whether the fixation of  rates  ofwages  would also include the fixation of scales  of  wages.The  rates  of wages and scales of wages are  two  differentexpressions with two different connotations.  " Wages " havebeen defined in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to mean"all remuneration capable of being expressed in, terms ofmoney, which would, if the terms of employment,	  express orimplied, were fulfilled, be payable to a workman in  respectof his employment or of work done in such employment."Similar	 definition  of	 " wages " is to  be  found  in	 theMinimum Wages Act, 1948, also.	They would therefore includeall payments made from time to time to a workman during	 thecourse of his employment as such and not merely the startingamount	of  wages at the beginning of his  employment.	 Thedictionary  meaning  of	 the  term  in	the  Concise  Oxford]Dictionary is also the same, viz.," Amount paid periodically, especially by the day or week ormonth,	for  time  during which workman	 or  servant  is  atemployer's disposal ".The  use of the word " rate " in the expression "  rates  ofwages" has not the effect of limiting the connotation of theterm.  "Rate" is described in the Concise Oxford  Dictionaryas  "  a statement of numerial proportion prevailing  or  toprevail	 between two sets of things either or both of  whichmay  be unspecified amount, etc., mentioned in one case	 for-application  to  all  similar	ones,  standard	 or  way  ofreckoning  (measure of) value, etc." In Chambers'  TwentiethCentury Dictionary its meaning is given as: estimated amountor value (Shakespeare), and also " amount88determined according to a rule or basis; a standard; a classor rank; manner or mode"."Rates of wages" therefore mean the manner, mode or standardof the payments of remuneration for work done whether at thestart  or  in the subsequent stages.  Rates of	wages  wouldthus include the scales of wages and there is no  antithesisbetween	  the,	 two  expressions,  the	  expression   beingapplicable both to the initial as well as subsequent amountsof wages.  It is true that in references made to  IndustrialTribunals fixing of scales of pay has been specifically men-tioned,	 e.  g., in the Industrial dispute  between  certainbanking	 companies  and	 their workers.	  But  that  is	 notsufficient  to	exclude the " scales of wages "	 from  beingcomprised  within the larger connotation of  the  expression"rates	of wages " which is capable of including the  scalesof  wages also within its ambit.  Even without the  specificmention	 of the scales of wages it would be open to fix	 thesame  in  an inquiry directed towards the  fixation  of	 therates of wages.It  is	also true that Industrial Tribunals have  laid	downthat the increments of wages or scales of remuneration couldonly  be  fixed	 having due regard to the  capacity  of	 theindustry  to pay.  In the case of the Britannia	 Building  &Iron Co. Ltd.(1):"  As  time scales increase the wage bill  year	 after	yearwhich  is reflected in the cost of production,	such  Scalesshould	not, in our opinion, be forced upon the employer  ofindustrial labour unless it is established that the employerhas  the present capacity to pay and its financial  capacitycan be counted upon in future.	Thus, both financial abilityand stability are requisite conditions."Similar observations were made in the case of the Union DrugCo. Ltd.(1):"   For	 before	 incremental  scales  can  be	imposed	  byadjudication, it is essential to see whether employer  wouldbe able to bear its burden.  The financial condition of	 theCompany	 must be such as to lead to the conclusion  that  itwould  be  able to pay the increments year by  year  for  anappreciable number of(1) (1954] 1 L. L. J. 651, 654.(2) [1954] 1 L.L.J. 766, 767.89years, for wage scales when settled are intended to be	longterm- schemes."This  consideration however of the capacity of the  industryto  pay does not militate against the  construction  adoptedabove that rates of wages do comprise within their scope thescales	of  wages  also and it therefore  follows  that	 thefixation  of rates of wages would also include the  fixationof scales of wages.  As a matter of fact, the provisions  inregard to the statutory minimum wages in Queensland, WesternAustralia, and Tasmania prescribe scales of wages which	 aregraduated according to age and experience.The  capacity of the industry to pay being thus one  of	 theessential  ingredients	in  the fixation  of  wages,  it  isrelevant to consider the different methods of measuring suchcapacity.The capacity of the industry to pay:The  capacity  of  industry to pay can	mean  one  of  threethings, viz :(i)the	 capacity   of	a   particular	 unit	(marginal,representative or average) to pay,(ii)the capacity of a particular industry as a whole to	 payor(iii)the capacity of all industries in the country to pay." Ideas on this subject have varied from country to country.In  New	 Zealand  and  Australia, the  capacity	 to  pay  iscalculated  with reference to all industries in the  countryand   no   special  concessions	 are  shown   to   depressedindustries.   In Australia the Arbitration Court  consideredthat  " in view of the absence of clear means  of  measuringthe  general  wage-paying capacity of  total  industry,	 theactual	wage upon which well-situated labourers were at	 thetime  maintaining the average family unit could	 justifiablybe  taken as the criterion of what industry  could  probablypay  to	 all  labourers	 ". This  is  at  best	a  secondarydefinition of capacity, for it could only serve to show thatcertain	 industries or units could afford to pay as much  ascertain others."The Bombay Textile Labour Inquiry Committee1290came  to the conclusion that it was not possible  to  definethe term "capacity to pay" in -a precise manner and observedas follows:"The  capacity to pay a wage cannot obviously be  determinedmerely	by the value of production. ,There is the  importantquestion of determining the charges that have to be deductedbefore	arriving  at the amount that can be paid  in  wages.The  determination  of	each of a large	 number	 of  chargesinvolves  difficulties,	 both  theoretical  and	  practical.Interest  charges,  remuneration  to  salaried	staffs	 andmanaging  agents,  sales  commissions,	profits,  all  thesecannot	for  any large organised industry be taken  as	pre-determined in a fixed manner.  Neither is it to be  expectedthat   representatives	of  Labour  would   accept   withoutchallenge the current levels of expenditure on these  items-apart  from the consideration whether the industry has	beenreasonably wellmanaged or not."" That Committee was, however, of the opinion that  capacityshould	 not  be  measured  in	terms  of   the	  individualestablishment  and that " the main criterion should  be	 theprofit	making	capacity  of  the  industry  in	 the   wholeprovince............................................" In determining the capacity of an industry to pay it wouldbe  wrong to take the capacity of a particular unit  or	 thecapacity  of  all industries in the country.   The  relevantcriterion should be the capacity of a particular industry ina  specified region and, as far as possible, the same  wagesshould be prescribed for all units of that industry in	thatregion.	  It  will obviously not be possible  for  the	wagefixing board to measure the capacity of each of the units ofan  industry in a region and the only practicable method  isto take a fair cross-section of that industry."(1)It  is clear therefore that the capacity of an	industry  topay  should be gauged on an industry-cum-region basis  aftertaking	a  fair cross-section of that industry. In  a  givencase it may be even permissible to divide the industry	intoappropriate  classes and then deal with the capacity of	 theindustry to pay classwise.(1)  Report  of	 the  Committee on Fair	 Wages,	 pp.  13-15,paras. 21& 23.91As  regards the measure of the capacity again there are	 twopoints of view in regard to the same:"  One	view is that the wage-fixing  machinery	 should,  indetermining the capacity of industry to pay, have regard to(i)  a	 fair	return	on  capital  and   remuneration	  tomanagement; and(ii)a fair allocation to reserves and depreciation so as tokeep the industry in a healthy condition.The  other  view is that the fair wage must be paid  at	 anycost  and that industry must go on paying such wage as	longas it does not encroach on capital to pay that wage.........The  objective	is not merely to determine wages  which	 arefair in the abstract, but to see that employment at existinglevels	is not only maintained but, if possible,  increased.From this point of view, it will be clear that the level  ofwages should enable the industry to maintain production withefficiency.   The  capacity  of	 industry  to  pay   should,therefore,  be assessed in the light of this very  importantconsideration.	The wages board should also be charged	withthe  duty  of  seeing  that fair  wages	 so  fixed  for	 anyparticular industry are not very much out of line with wagesin other industries in that region.  Wide disparities  wouldinevitably  lead  to  movement	of  labour,  and  consequentindustrial unrest not only in the industry concerned but  inother industries." (1)The  main  consideration  which	 is  to	 be  borne  in	mindtherefore  is that the industry should be able	to  maintainproduction  with  efficiency and the  fixation	of  rates,ofwages  should be such that there are no movements  from	 oneindustry to another owing to wide disparities and employmentat existing levels is not only maintained, but if  possible,increased.Different  tests  have	been  suggested	 for  measuring	 thecapacity of the industry to pay: viz:(1)  The selling price of the product;(2)  The volume of the output;(3)  the profit and loss in the business;(1)  Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, p. 14, para. 24.92(4)  the  rates	 which	have  been agreed  to  by  a,  largemajority of the employers;(5)  the  amount of unemployment brought about or likely  tobe  brought about by the imposition of the  increased  wage,etc.They  are however not quite satisfactory.  The real  measureof  the capacity of the industry to pay has been  thus	laiddown in " Wage.-, & the State " by E.M. Burns at p. 387:"  It  would  be necessary to inquire inter  alia  into	 theelasticity  of demand for the product, for on  this  dependsthe  extent to which employers could transfer the burden  ofthe increased wage to consumers.  It would also be necessaryto  inquire  how far the enforced payment of a	higher	wagewould  lead employers to tighten up Organisation and so	 paythe higher wage without difficulty.	      ................................Similarly  it  frequently  happens  that  an  enhanced	wageincreases  the	efficiency of the lowest paid  workers;	 theresulting  increase  in production should be  considered  inconjunction with the elasticity of demand for the  commoditybefore the ability of a trade to pay can fairly be judged.Again  unless what the trade can bear be held to imply	thatin  no circumstances should the existing rate of  profit  bereduced, there is no reason why attempts should not be	madeto  discover  how far it is possible to force  employers  tobear  the burden of an increased rate without  driving	themout  of business.  This would involve an investigation	intothe  elasticity	 of  supply  of	 capital  and	organizationability	 in that particular trade, and thus an inquiry	intothe rate of profits in other industries, the ease with whichtransferences might be made, the possibility of similar wageregulation extending to other trades, and the probability ofthe export of capital and organising ability etc."The principles which emerge from the above discussion are:(1)  that in the fixation of rates of wages which93include	 within its compass the fixation of scales of  wagesalso,  the  capacity of the industry to pay is	one  of	 theessential  circumstances  to  be  taken	 into  considerationexcept	in cases of bare subsistence or minimum	 wage  wherethe  employer is bound to pay the same irrespective of	suchcapacity;(2)  that  the	capacity  of the industry to pay  is  to  beconsidered  on an industry-cum-region basis after  taking  afair cross section of the industry; and(3)  that the proper measure for gauging the capacity of theindustry  to pay should take into account the elasticity  ofdemand for the product, the possibility of tightening up theOrganisation  so  that the industry could pay  higher  wageswithout	 difficulty and the possibility of increase  in	 theefficiency of the lowest paid workers resulting in  increasein production considered in conjunction with the  elasticityof  demand  for the product-no doubt  against  the  ultimatebackground that the burden of the increased rate should	 notbe such as to drive the employer out of business.These  are the principles of fixation of rates of wages	 andit falls now to be considered what is the machinery employedfor such fixation.The machinery for fixations of wages:The  fixation  of  wages  may form  the	 subject  matter  ofreference to industrial tribunals or similar machinery underthe  Labour Relations Law.  But this machinery	is  designedfor  the  prevention and settlement of	industrial  disputeswhich  have  either  arisen  or	 are  apprehended,  disputesrelating to wages being one of such disputes.  The  ensuringof  an adequate wage is however a distinctive objective	 andit  requires  the  setting up of some kind  of	wage  fixingboard,	whether they be trade boards or general boards.	  Itis  seldom  that legislative enactments themselves  fix	 therates of wages, though a few such instances are known.	Thismethod	of  regulation of wages has now become	obsolete  inview of its inflexibility.  " (1)"  The Constitution of Boards falls naturally into two	maingroups.	   On	the   one  hand,   there   are	 those	 notrepresentatives of one but of all trades, workers in(1)  The  Report  of the Committee on Fair  Wages.   P.	 26,para. 49.94general	 and employers in general being	 represented.	Thisgroup	includes   among  others  the	Industrial   WelfareCommission  of	Texas,	consisting of  the  Commissioner  ofLabour,	 the  representative of employers of labour  on	 theIndustrial  Accidents Board and the State Superintendent  ofPublic	Instruction;  the Minimum Wage	Board  of  Manitoba,composed  of  two representatives of employers, and  two  ofworkers	 (one of each to be a woman) and  one  disinterestedperson; and the South Australian Board of Industry, consist-ing  of a President and four Commissioners, two of whom	 areto   be	 nominated  by	the  South   Australian	  Employers'Federation  and two by the United Trades and Labour  Councilof   the  State.   On  the  other  hand	 are  those   Boardsrepresentative	of one trade only or of part of a trade,  orof a group of allied trades.  An attempt is made to obtain abody of specialists and the membership of the Board reflectsthis  intention.   It  will  contain  an  equal	 number	  ofrepresentatives	 of employers and workers, together with  animpartial chairman, and in some cases members of the  publicas  well.   Of this type are the British Trade	Boards;	 theSouth Australian, Victorian and Tasmanian Wages Boards;	 andthe  Advisory or Wages Boards set up by many of the  CentralCommissioners in the United States and Canada.	" (1)The following is a brief description of the composition	 andworking of wages boards in the United Kingdom:" In the United Kingdom where trade boards, and not  generalboards, have been set up, the Minister of Labour appoints  aboard if lie is satisfied that no adequate machinery  existsin a particular trade or industry for effectively regulatingthe  waves  and	 that  it  is  necessary  to  provide	suchmachinery.    The  trade  board	 is  a	fairly	large	bodyconsisting   of	 an  equal  number  of	representatives	  ofemployers  and	workers	 with  a  few  independent   membersincluding  the Chairman.  Although appointments are made  bythe Minister, the representatives of employers and workers(1)  "Wages & The State" by E. M. Burns at p. 187.95are  appointed	on the recommendation  of  the	associationsconcerned.   The trade board publishes a  notice  announcingits  tentative proposals for the fixation or revision  of  awage  rate and invites objections or comments.	After a	 twomonths' notice the board takes a final decision and  submitsa  report to the Minister who must confirm the rate  unless,for  any special reasons, he returns the recommendations  tothe board for further consideration." (1)The Wage Council Act, 1945 (8 & 9 Geo.	VI, ch. 17) providesfor  the  establishment of Wage Councils.  The	Minister  ofLabour	and National Service has the power to make  a  wagescouncil order after considering objections made with respectto the draft order on behalf of any person appearing to	 himto  be affected.  The Wage Council makes such  investigationas it thinks fit and publishes notice of the wage regulationproposals and parties affected are entitled to make  writtenrepresentations	 with  respect	to  these  proposals   whichrepresentations	 the  Wage  Council  considers.	  The	WageCouncil	 can  make such further enquiries  as  it  considersnecessary  and	thereafter  submit  the	 proposals  to	 theMinister either without amendment or with such amendments asit thinks fit in regard to the same.  The Minister considersthese  wage regulations proposals and makes an order  givingeffect	to the proposals from such date as may be  specifiedin  the	 order.	 Remuneration fixed by the  wage  regulationorders is called statutory minimum remuneration.There  are  also similar provisions under  the	AgriculturalWage  Regulation  Act,	1924 (14 & 15 Geo.  V,	ch.  37)  inregard	to  the regulation of wages  by	 Agricultural  WagesCommittees and the Agricultural Wages Board.In Canada and Syria a board consists of generally 5 members,but in China the size of the board varies from 9 to 15.	  Inall  these  countries  employers and  workers  obtain  equalrepresentation.	  In  Canada  the  boards  are	required  toenquire	 into  the conditions of work and  wages.   In	someprovinces  the	boards	are authorised to  issue  orders  ordecrees while in others(1)  The  Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, pp.  25-26,para. 30.96the  recommendations have to be submitted to the  LieutenantGovernor who issues orders." In the United States of America some state laws  prescribethat the representatives of employers and workers should  beelected,  but in the majority of States	 the  administrativeauthorities are authorised to make direct appointments.	 Theboards	so set up are empowered to make enquiries,  to	callfor records, to summon witnesses and to make recommendationsregarding minimum wages.  Some of the American laws lay downa   time-limit	for  the  submission  of   proposals.	 Theadministrative	authority may accept or reject a report	 andrefer  it back for reconsideration, or form a new board	 forconsidering  the  matter afresh.  Some of the  laws  providethat  if  the  report is not accepted, the  matter  must  besubmitted  again  to  the same wages board or  a  new  wagesboard." (1)The  whole procedure for the determination of wages  in	 theUnited	States of America is described in two  decisions  ofthe   Supreme  Court:  (i)  Interstate	Commerce   Com.	  v.Louisville  & M. R. (2) and (ii) Opp.  Cotton Mills Inc.  v.Administration (3).The Fair Labour Standards Act of 1938 in the U.S.A. providesfor  convening by the Administrator of	industry  committeesfor each such industry which from time to time recommend theminimum rate or rates of wages to be paid by the  employers.The  committee Recommends to the administrator	the  highestminimum	 wage  rates for the industry which  it	 determines,having	due -regard to economic and competitive	 conditions,will  not substantially curtail employment in the  industry.Wage  orders can there upon be issued by  the  administratorafter  due notice to all interested persons and giving	theman opportunity to be heard.In  Australia, also there are provisions in  various  statesfor  the appointment of wage boards the details of which  weneed  not  go  into.  We may only refer to  the	 wage  boardsystem in Victoria which was established(1)  Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, p. 26, para. 50.(2)  (1912) 227 U.S. 88; 57 L. Ed. 431.(3)  (1940) 312 U-S- 126; 85 L. Ed. 624.			97in 1896 as a means of directly regulating wages -and workingconditions  in industries subject to " sweating ",  and	 wasnot intended to control industrial relations as such."  Under the Factories and Shops Act, 1924, wage boards	 areset  up	 for  the  various  industries	with  a'  court	  ofIndustrial Appeals to decide appeals from a determination ofa wage board.. Industries for which there is no special wageboard  are  regulated  by the  General	Wages  Board,  whichconsists of two employers' representatives nominated by	 theVictorian   Chamber   of   Manufacturers,   two	  employees'representatives	 nominated  by	the  Melbourne	Trade	HallCouncil,  and a chairman, agreed upon by these four  membersor nominated by the minister for labour."(1)It  may	 be noted that in the majority of cases	 these	wageboards are constituted of equal number of representatives ofemployers and employees and one or more independent persons,one of whom is appointed the chairman.The position in India has been thus summarised:"  The	history of wage-fixation in India is a	very  recentone.  There was practically no effective machinery until thelast  war for the settlement of industrial disputes  or	 thefixation  of wages.  The first important enactment  for	 thesettlement  of disputes was the Bombay	Industrial  DisputesAct,  1938 which created an Industrial Court.  The  Act	 hadlimited	 application and the Court was not charged with	 theresponsibilities of fixing and regulating wages.  During thewar State intervention in the settlement of industrial	dis-putes  became  necessary,  and	numerous  adjudicators	wereappointed to adjudicate on trade disputes under the  Defenceof  India Rules.  The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, is	 thefirst  effective measure of All-India applicability for	 thesettlement  of industrial disputes.  Under this Act  variousTribunals have passed awards regulating wages in a number ofimportant industries." The first enactment specifically to regulate wages in thiscountry is the Minimum Wages Act, 1948.(1)  Kenneth F. Walker, "Industrial Relations in Australia".1398This  Act  is  limited in its  operation  to  the  so-calledsweated	  industries   in  which   labour   is	 practicallyunorganised  and  working conditions are far worse  than  inorganised   industry.	Under  that  Act   the	 appropriateGovernment  has	 either	 to  appoint  a	 Committee  to	holdenquiries  and	to advise it in regard to  the	fixation  ofminimum	 rates of wages or, if it thinks that it has  enoughmaterial on hand, to publish its proposals for the  fixationof  wages in the official gazette and to invite	 objections.The  appropriate Government finally fixes the minimum  ratesof wages on receipt of the recommendations of the  Committeeor of objections from the public.  There is no provision forany appeal.  There is an advisory board in each province  toco-ordinate  the work of the various committees.   There  isalso  a	 Central Advisory Board to co-ordinate the  work  ofprovincial boards.  Complaints of non-payment of the minimumrates  of wages fixed by Government may be taken  to  claimsauthorities.  Breaches of the Act are punishable by criminalcourts." (1)It  is worthy of note that these  committee,  subcommittees,advisory board and central advisory board are to consist  ofpersons	  to   be  nominated  by  the	Central	  Governmentrepresenting  employers	 and  employees	 in  the   scheduledemployments,  who shall be equal in number, and	 independentpersons	 not  exceeding	 one-third of its  total  number  ofmembers; one of such independent persons shall be  appointedthe chairman by the appropriate Government."  Under  a  recent  amendment	to  the	 Bombay	  IndustrialRelations  Act,	 1946,	wage boards can be  set	 up  in	 theProvince  of Bombay either separately for each	industry  orfor a group of industries.  The wage board is to consist  ofan   equal  number  of	representatives	 of  employers	 andemployees   and	 some  independent  persons  including	 theChairman, all of whom are nominated by the Government.	 Theboard  decides disputes relating to reduction in the  numberof  persons employed, rationalisation or  other	 efficiency,systems	 of work, wages and the period and mode of  payment,hours of work and leave with or without(1)  Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, pp. 26-27, para.51, 52.99pay.   When a matter has been referred to a wages board,  noproceedings   may  be  commenced  or  continued	  before   aconciliator, conciliation board, labour court or  industrialcourt.	 The wages boards are authorised to form  committeesfor local areas for the purpose of making enquiries.  It  isobligatory  on" Government to declare the decisions  of	 thewages boards binding, but where Government feel that it willbe inexpedient on public grounds to give effect to the wholeor  any	 part of the decision, the matter has to  be  placedbefore	the  Provincial Legislature, the decision  of  whichwill  be  binding.   There is provision for  the  filing  ofappeals	 from  the  decisions of the  wages  boards  to	 theIndustrial Court." (1)Those wage boards moreover are under the superintendence  ofthe Industrial Court.We  may	 also  notice  here  Recommendation  30,  being	 therecommendation	concerning the application of Minimum  Wage-Fixing	Machinery made by the International  Labour  Office,1949 (2):(1)  The minimum wage-fixing machinery whatever form it	 maytake  (for  instance,  trade board  for	 individual  trades,tribunals), should operate by way of investigation into	 therelevant conditions in the trade or part of trade  concernedand   consultation   with  the	 interests   primarily	 andprincipally  affected,	that is to say,	 the  employers	 andworkers	 in the trade or part of trade, whose views  on	 allmatters relating to the fixing of the minimum rate of  wagesshould in any case be solicited and be given full and  equalconsideration." (2) (a) To secure greater authority for the rates that maybe fixed, it should be the general policy that the employersand  workers  concerned	 through  representatives  equal  innumber or having equal voting strength, should jointly	takea  direct  part in the deliberations and  decisions  of	 thewage-fixing  body;  in	any case,  where  representation  isaccorded  to one side, the other side should be	 representedon  the	 same  footing.	 The wage-fixing  body	should	alsoinclude	 one  or more independent persons  whose  votes	 canensure(1)  Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, P. 27, para. 52.(2)  Extracts  from Conventions & Recommendations,  1919-49,published by International Labour Office (1949).100effective decisions being reached in the event of the  votesof the employers' and workers' representatives being equallydivided.   Such	 independent  persons  should,	as  far	  aspossible,   be	 selected  in  agreement   with	  or   afterconsultation	with	the    employers'    and    workers'representatives on the wage fixing body.(b)In  order  to ensure that the employers'  and  workers'representatives	 shall be persons having the  confidence  ofthose  whose  interests	 they  respectively  represent,	 theemployers  and workers concerned should be given a voice  asfar as is practicable in the circumstances in the  selectionof  their representatives, and if any organisations  of	 theemployers  and	workers exist these should in  any  case  beinvited	 to submit names of persons recommended by them	 forappointment on the wage-fixing body.(c)The	 independent  person  or  persons   mentioned	inparagraph  (a) -should be selected from among men  or  womenrecognised  as possessing the necessary	 qualifications	 fortheir  duties and as being dissociated from any interest  inthe  trade  or	part  of  trade	 concerned  which  might  becalculated to put their impartiality in question.  "The  following	appraisement of the system  of	establishingtrader boards by the committee on fair wages may be noted inthis context:" A trade board has the advantage of expert knowledge of thespecial	 problems of the trade for which it has been set  upand is, therefore, in a position to evolve a scheme of wagessuited	to  the	 conditions obtaining  in  the	trade.	 Thesystem,	 however, suffers from the limitation that there  isno  one	 authority  to co-ordinate  the	 activities  of	 thevarious	 boards	 with the result that wide  disparities	 mayarise between the scales sanctioned for similar	 industries.A  general board ensures due co-ordination but is  far	lesscompetent  than	 a  trade board to  appreciate	the  specialproblems  of each trade.  The Bombay Textile Labour  InquiryCommittee  have stated in their report that the trade  boardsystem is the best suited to Indian conditions, particularlybecause the very manner of101functioning  of trade boards is such that wages are  arrivedat  largely  by discussion and conciliation and that  it  isonly  in  exceptional cases that the deciding votes  of	 theChairman  and of the independent members have to be  given."(1)It  is	clear  therefore that a wage board  relating  to  a,particular trade or industry constituted of equal number  ofrepresentatives	  of  employers	 and  employees,   with	  anindependent  member  or members one of whom is	appointed  achairman,  is  best  calculated	 to  arrive  at	 the  properfixation of wages in that industry.Principles for guidance.If  a wage board is thus appointed it is necessary that	 theprinciples for its guidance in wage fixation should also  belaid  down  by	the  appointing	 authority.   The  followingpassage	 from "Minimum Wage-An	International  Survey-I.L.O.Geneva,	 1939,	summarises  the position as  it	 obtains  invarious countries:"  As will be clear from the analysis of  legislation  givenearlier in this monograph, the fundamental principle of	 theAustralian system, both in the Commonwealth and in the Statesphere,	 is  that of the living wage.  Even in	those  caseswhere  the law contains no reference to this  principle	 itsimportance  is in practice great............ As a  criterionof  wage  regulation  the principle of the  living  wage  ishowever	 no more than a vague and general indication of	 thepurpose of the legislation.  It leaves the broadest possiblediscretion in practice to the wage fixing tribunals.  In thecase  of  the  Commonwealth laws indeed the  Court  is	leftcompletely  free  to determine the principles on  which	 thebasic  or living wage is to be assessed.  Under	 certain  ofthe  State  laws specific, though  limited,  directions	 aregiven.	 Thus in Queensland there is a statutory  definitionof  the family unit on whose requirements the basic wage  isto be calculated.  In certain cases the general emphasis  onthe  criterion	of  the workers' needs	is  supplemented  bydirections  to	fix  wage  rates that will  be	"  fair	 andreasonable  "  and  in doing so to  take  into	account	 theaverage standard(1)  Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, P. 27, para. 53,102of comfort being enjoyed by workers in the same locality  orin  similar occupations.  Such references, it may be  noted,involve	 at least an indirect allusion to  general  economicconditions  and the capacity of industry to pay,  since	 thestandards  currently  enjoyed are closely related  to  thesefactors.  In at least one case (in Queensland) the Court  isspecifically directed to examine the probable effects of itsdecisions upon industry and the community in general."In  the United States of America the Fair  Labour  StandardsAct  of 1938 enunciates certain principles for the  guidanceof  the	 industry  committees  which  are  convened  by	 theAdministrator under the Act:"  The	committee shall recommend to the  Administrator	 thehighest	 minimum  wage	rates  for  the	 industry  which  itdetermines,  having due regard to economic  and	 competitiveconditions, will not substantially curtail employment in theindustry  "  and  further  "  in  determining  whether	suchclassifications	 should	 be made in any industry  in  makingsuch  classification,  and in determining the  minimum	wagerates  for such classification, no classification  shall  bemade,  and no minimum wage rate shall be fixed, solely on  aregional  basis, but the industry committee and the  Admini-strator	 shall	consider among other  relevant	factors	 thefollowing.(1)  competitive  conditions as affected by  transportation,living, and production cost;(2)  the  wages established for work of like  or  comparablecharacter by collective labour agreements negotiated betweenemployers  and	employees by representatives  of  their	 ownchoosing; and(3)  the wages paid for work of like or comparable characterby employers who voluntarily maintain minimum wage standardsin the industry.No  classification shall be made under this section  on	 thebasis of age or sex."The normal rule however is to leave a wide discretion to thetribunals responsible for the fixation of wages inasmuch  asthey  being constituted of equal numbers of  representativesof the employers and the103employees  are	best  calculated  to  appreciate  the  wholeposition and arrive at correct results.Procedure to be followed :The  procedure to be followed by the wage boards is  equallyfluid.	 The  wage  councils and  the  central	coordinatingcommittees  appointed under the Wages Council Act, 1945,  asalso the agricultural wages committees and the	agriculturalboards	appointed  under the Agricultural  Wages  RegulationAct,  1924, in the United Kingdom each of them	subject,  ofcourse,	 to  the  regulations which might  be  made  by	 theminister  as to the meetings and procedure of  these  bodiesincluding   quorum,  etc.,  is	entitled  to  regulate	 itsprocedure in such manner as it thinks fit.The   wage  boards  in	Australia  "  are  called   togetherinformally by the chairman upon request of either party., Nolegal  formalities  or	procedures need	 be  complied  with.Meetings  of  wage  boards are held in the  offices  of	 theDepartment of Labour an officer of the department acting  assecretary." (1)The wage boards thus constituted are left to regulate  theirprocedure  in  such manner as they think fit and it  is	 notnecessary  that any regulation should be made in  regard  tothe  procedure to be adopted by them in the conduct  of	 theenquiry before them.There  are, however, a number of safeguards which have	beenprovided  in order to protect the interests of	the  partiesconcerned.   The wages councils established by the  Ministerof Labour and National Services in the United Kingdom are soestablished   after  considering  objections  from   personsappearing to be affected thereby and wage regulation  ordersare also recommended by these councils after considering thewritten	 representations in regard to their proposals  whichare   duly  published  in  the	manner	prescribed.    Theserecommendations	 are again in their turn considered  by	 theminister and it is only after the minister is satisfied thatthese  wage regulation orders are promulgated, the  ministerhaving	the power in proper cases to send the same back	 forreconsideration by the wage(1)  Kenneth  F. Walker " Industrial Relations in  Australia", P. 24.104councils.   When these proposals are again submitted by	 thewage council the same -procedure is followed as in the	caseof original proposals made by them.The  reports  of  the industry committees  convened  by	 theadministrator in the United States of America are subject toscrutiny  by  the  administrator who  gives  notice  to	 allinterested  persons and gives them an opportunity  of  beingheard  in regard to the same. it is only after this is	donethat he approves and carries into effect the recommendationsin these reports on his being fully satisfied that they	 areproper	and  if he disapproves of these	 recommendations  heagain  refers  the  matter to such  committees	for  furtherconsiderations	and  recommendations.	The  orders  of	 theadministrator  are  again subject to review in	the  CircuitCourt  of Appeals in the United States and further  revisionin the U. S. Supreme Court upon certiorari or certification.As regards the determinations of the special boards in	someof  the States of the Commonwealth of Australia appeals	 lieagainst the same to the court of industrial appeals and theyare   also  challengeable  before  the	High   Court.Such safeguards are also provided in our Minimum Wages	Act,1948.	Here the work of the committees, sub-committees	 andadvisory  committees is coordinated by advisory	 boards	 andthe  work  of  the advisory boards  is	coordinated  by	 thecentral advisory board which advises the Central  Governmentin  the matter of the fixing of the minimum rates  of  wagesand other matters under the Act and it is after the  receiptof such advice from the Central advisory board by the appro-priate Government that the latter takes action in the matterof  fixation or revision of minimum rates of wages.   Where,however,  the  appropriate  Government propose	to  fix	 theminimum	 rates	of wages without reference  to	the  variouscommittees, or sub-committees, it publishes its proposals bynotification in the Official Gazette for the information  ofpersons likely to be affected thereby and fixes the  minimumrates  of wages only after considering	the  representationsreceived by it from the interested parties.105The wage boards appointed by the amended Bombay	 Industrial-Relations   Act,   1946,  are  subject	to   the   appellatejurisdiction  as  well as supervisory  jurisdiction  of	 theindustrial courts in the State and parties affected by theirdecisions  are entitled to file appeals against the same  inthe industrial courts.If these safeguards are provided against the  determinationsof  the	 wage  boards, it will	be  really  immaterial	whatprocedure they adopt in the course of the proceedings beforethem.	They  would  normally  be  expected  to	 adopt	 allprocedure  necessary to gather sufficient data	and  collectsufficient  materials  to enable them to come  to  a  properconclusion  in regard to the matters submitted to  them	 fortheir determination' If however at any time they flouted theregulations  prescribed	 in regard to the  procedure  to  befollowed  by them or in the absence of any such	 regulationsadopted a procedure -which was contrary to the principles ofnatural justice their decision would be vitiated and  liableto be set aside by the appropriate authority.Charactero the functions performed:There is considerable divergence of opinion in regard to thecharacter  of the functions performed by these	wage  boardsand  a	controversy has arisen as to whether  the  functionsperformed  by  them are administrative, judicial  or  quasi-judicial or legislative in character.  The question  assumesimportance  on two grounds: viz., (i) whether the  decisionsof  the	 wage boards are open to judicial  review  and	(ii)whether the principle of audi alteram partem applies to	 theproceedings  before  the  wage	boards.	  If  the  functionsperformed  by  them were administrative	 or  legislative  incharacter  they would not be subject to judicial review	 andnot  only  would  the  not  be	amenable  to  the  writs  ofcertiorari  or	prohibition under Arts. 32 and 226  of	the'Constitution,  they  would  also  not  be  amenable  to	 theexercise  of  special  leave jurisdiction  under  Art.	136.Their  decisions  moreover would not be	 vulnerable  on	 theground that the principle of audi alteram partem, i. e.,  noman  shall  be condemned unheard, was not  followed  in	 thecourse of the proceedings before themI4			    106and  the  procedure  adopted by them  was  contrary  to	 theprinciples of natural justice.It is well settled that writs of certiorari and	 prohibitionwill lie only in respect of judicial or quasijudicial acts:"  the	orders	of certiorari and prohibition  will  lie  tobodies	and  persons other than courts stricto	sensu.	 Anybody   of  persons  having  legal  authority  to   determinequestions  affecting the rights of subjects, and having	 theduty  to  act  judicially, is  subject	to  the	 controllingjurisdiction  of  the High Court of  justice,  exercised  bymeans of these orders." (1).The  principle of audi alteram partem also applies  only  tojudicial  or quasi-judicial proceedings: As was observed  bythe Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Patterson  v.District Commissioner of Accra (2):-"On  this  part	 of the case,  counsel	suggested  that	 theprovisions of s. 9 were in the nature of a " mass punishment"  of  the  inhabitants of the proclaimed  district  and  herelied	on the well-known passage from the judgment  of	 thecourt in Bonaker v. Evans (3), " no proposition can be	moreclearly established than that a man cannot incur the loss ofliberty or property for an offence by a judicial  proceedinguntil he has had a fair opportunity of answering the  chargeagainst him, unless indeed the legislature has expressly  orimpliedly given an authority to act, without that  necessarypreliminary.   This is laid down in there a number of  casesare mentioned] and many other cases, concluding with that ofCapel  v. Child (4) in which Bayley B. says he knows  of  nocase  in  which you are to have a  judicial  proceeding,  bywhich  a man is to be deprived of any part of his  property,without his having an opportunity of being heard............Their Lordships have already indicated that, in their  view,the  section does not contemplate any  judicial	 proceeding,and thus a decision against the appellant does not  infringethe principles stated in Bonaker v. Evans." (3)(1) Halsbury's Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 11, at p. 55,para.114.(2)[1948] A.C. 341. 350.(4) (1832) 2 C.(3)  16 Q.B. 162, 171.J. 558.107The  distinction  between  a  legislative  and	a   judicialfunction  is  thus brought out	in  Cooley's  ConstitutionalLimitations, 8th Edn., Vol. 1, ch.  V under the caption of "the powers which the legislative department may exercise  ",at p. 185:-"   On	general	 principles,  therefore,  those	  inquiries,deliberations,	orders, and decrees, which are	peculiar  tosuch  a department, must in their nature be  judicial  acts.Nor  can  they be both judicial and legislative;  because  amarked difference exists between the employment of  judicialand  legislative  tribunals.   The former  decide  upon	 thelegality  of claims and conduct, and the latter	 make  rulesupon  which,  in  connection with  the	constitution,  thosedecisions  should be founded.  It is the province of  judgesto determine what is the law upon; existing cases.  In fine,the law is applied by one, and made by the other.  To do thefirst, therefore, is to compare, the claims of parties	withthe  law  of the land before established-is  in	 its  naturejudicial act.  But to do the last-to pass new rules for	 theregulation   of	 new  controversies-is	in  its	  nature   alegislative act; and if these rules interfere with the past,or the present, find do not look wholly to the future,	theyviolate the definition of a law as " a rule of civil conduct"  because no rule of conduct can with	consistency  operateupon what occurred before the rule itself was promulgated."  It  is  the province of judicial power,  also  to  decideprivate	 disputes  between  or concerning  persons;  but  oflegislative  power to regulate public concerns, and to	makelaws for the benefit and welfare of the State.	Nor does thepassage	 of private statutes, when' lawful, are	 enacted  onpetition,  or by the consent of all concerned; or else	theyforbear	 to  interfere	with past  translations	 and  vestedrights."The  following classic passage from the opinion	 of  Holmes,J., in Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co. Ltd., (1), is veryapposite in this context:"  A judicial inquiry investigates, declares,  and  enforcesliabilities as they stand on present or past facts and underlaws  supposed	already to exist.  That is its	purpose	 andend.  Legislation, on the other hand(1)  (1908) 211 U.S. 210, 226-227 ; 53 L. Ed. 15o, 158, 159.108looks,	to  the future and changes  existing  conditions  bymaking	a new rule, to be applied thereafter to all or	somepart of those subject to its power.  The establishment of  arate is the making of a rule for the future, and  therefore,is     an     act    legislative     not     judicial	  inkind.......................................................That  question depends not upon the character of  the  body,but upon the character of the proceedings. The nature of the final act determines the natureof   the previous enquiry."(See also Mitchell Coal & Coke Co. v. Pennsylvania R.  Co.(1)  and  Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company  v.  GreenGarrett (2)A practical difficulty however arises in thus characterisingthe  functions	as  legislative	 or  judicial  because	 thefunctions  performed by administrative agencies do not	fallwithin watertight compartments.	 Stason and Cooper in  theirtreatises  on " Cases and other materials on  AdministrativeTribunals" point out:One  of	 the great difficulties of  properly  classifying  aparticular  function  of ail administrative agency  is	thatfrequently  --and, indeed; typically-a single  function	 hasthree  aspects.	 It is partly legislative,  partly  judicialand  partly  administrative.   Consider,  for  example,	 thefunction   of	rate-making.	It   has   sometimes	beencharacterised  as  legislative, sometimes as  judicial.	  Insome  aspects,	actually, it involves  merely  executive  oradministrative	powers.	 For example, where  the  InterstateCommerce  Commission  fixes  a tariff  of  charges  for	 anyrailroad, its function is viewed as legislative.  But  wherethe question for decision is whether a shipment of a mixtureof coffee and chicory should be charged the rate establishedfor  coffee or the lower rate established for  chicory,	 thequestion is more nearly judicial.  On the other hand,  wherethe  problem is merely the calculation of the total  freightcharges due for a particular shipment, the determination canfairly be described as an administrative act."(1)  (1913) 230 U.S. 247; 571.	Ed. 1472, 1482.(2)  (1913) 231 U.S. 298 ; 58 L. Ed. 229, 239.			    109This  difficulty is solved by the Court considering I  in  aproper	case  whether the administrative agency	 performs  apredominantly  legislative  or	judicial  or  administrativefunction  and determining its character accordingly.  (Vide:Village of Saratoga Springs v. Saratoga Gas, Electric  Light&  Power  Co. (1), and People ex rel.  Central	Park,  North((., East River R. Co. v.Willcox (2).The  function  of the wage board in the United	Kingdom	 hadbeen  characterised as legislative in character	 by  varioustext-book writers.Robson's Justice and Administrative Law, 3rd Edn., states atp. 608 (foot-note):"  An example of a subordinate body of this type is  a	WageCouncil,  which	 is  not an administrative  tribunal  but  asubordinate legislative authority."Griffith's  Principles of Administrative Lam,  contains	 thefollowing passage at p. 39:" The subordinate legislation which occupies more space thanany  other subject relates to Wages Councils.  By the  WagesCouncils  Act,	1945, the Minister of  Labour  and  NationalService	 was empowered to establish by order Wages  Councilsto  operate in industries and trades.  Six such orders	weremade in 1947.  Wages Councils, under the Act, may submit  tothe  Minister  detailed "wages	regulations  proposals"	 forfixing remuneration and making provisions for holidays.	 TheMinister  then makes orders embodying and giving  effect  tothese proposals.  In 1947, fifty-five such orders were made,covering thirty-one different trades."Barbare	 Wootton  in " Social Foundations  of  Wage  Policy;Modern	Methods	 of Wage Determination makes  the  followingobservations at p. 88:"  Both	 arbitration tribunals and courts of  inquiry  sharewith-one  important difference-the tripartite  structure  ofstatutory wage councils; they are composed of equal  numbersof  representatives  of employers and of  workers  under  anindependent   chairman	 together  with	 (in   some   cases)additional  independent members.  The  essential  differencebetween	  their	 structure  and	 that  of   statutory	wageauthorities is that the(1) (1908) 191 New York 123.(2) (1909) 194 New York 383.110representative members of the latter are chosen from  withinthe  industry  concerned, whereas employers and	 workers  onarbitration  tribunal come from outside the  industry  whosedisputes  they	have to resolve; if in	any  case  technicalknowledge  of  a particular industry is	 required,  this  isnormally supplied by the help of assessors who take no	partin   the   final  award.   This	  difference   between	 theconstitution   of  wage	 boards	 and  that  of	 arbitrationtribunals   clearly  implies  a	 corresponding	 distinctionbetween	 the  legislative  function of the  former  and	 thejudicial  function  of the latter.  The wages  board  draftslaws  for  its own industry, whereas the  arbitration  courtgives  judgment on matters submitted by others.	 The  choiceof  industrial arbitrators unconnected with  the  industriesthe  merits of whose claims they must pledge,  is  evidentlyintended  as a guarantee that they, like other judges,	willbe free from bias arising from personal interest ".The High Court of the Commonwealth of Australia has taken  asimilar	 view in Australian Boot Trade Employees  Federationv.  Whybrow  & Co. (1), in discussing an award made  by	 thewages  board  empowered by a State statute  to	fix  minimumrates  of  wages.   The test  applied  for  determining	 thecharacter  of  that function may be stated in the  words  ofIssacs J. at p. 318:" If the dispute is as to the relative rights of parties  asthey rest on past or present circumstances, the award is  inthe  nature of a judgment, which might have been the  decreeof an ordinary judicial tribunal acting Linder the  ordinaryjudicial  power.  There the law applicable to the case	mustbe  observed.  If, however, the dispute is as to what  shallin  the future be the mutual rights and responsibilities  ofthe  partiesin	other  words,  if  no  present	rights	'areasserted  or denied, but a future rule of conduct is  to  beprescribed,  thus creating new rights and obligations,	withsanctions for non-conformity-then the determination that  soprescribes, call it an award, or arbitration, determination,or   decision  or  what	 you  will,  is	 essentially  of   alegislative  character,	 and limited only by the  law  whichauthorises it.	If, again, there are neither present(1)(1910) 10 C. L. R. 266, 318.111rights	asserted, nor a future rule of	conduct	 prescribed,but  merely a fact ascertained necessary for  the  practicaleffectuation  of  admitted rights,  the	 proceeding,  thoughcalled	an  arbitration,  is  rather in	 the  nature  of  anappraisement or ministerial act.  "As against this trend of opinion it has been urged that	 thedecisions  of  the  Wage  Councils  in	the  shape  of	wageregulation  proposals  submitted to the	 minister  in  GreatBritain	 under the Wage Councils Act derive  their  sanctionfrom the orders made by the minister giving effect to  theseproposals;  but for such orders of the minister	 they  wouldmerely	remain the determinations of the Wage  Councils	 andwould  not acquire any legislative character.  In regard  tothe  determinations  of	 the wage boards  empowered  by	 thestatutes   to  fix  the	 minimum  rates	 of  wages  in	 theCommonwealth of Australia also it is pointed out that  underthe  provisions	 of the Factories and Shops  Act,  1905,  ofVictoria  "Every  determination of any Special	Board  shallunless	and until so quashed......... have the	like  force,validity  and  effect  as if  such  determination  had	beenenacted in this Act.............. thus investing the  deter-mination  of  the  boards  with	 the  characteristics  of  alegislative act.Reference  is  made  to the provisions of  the	Fair  LabourStandards Act of 1938 in the United States of America, wherethe  wages orders ultimately approved by  the  Administratorare  subject  to  judicial review in the  Circui  Courts  ofAppeals	 or  in the United States courts of appeals  of	 theparticular  ]District and also subject to further review  bythe  Supreme  Court  of	 the United  States  of	 America  oncertification.The  Minimum Wages Act, 1948, in our country  also  providesfor the committees, sub-committees, advisory sub-committees,advisory  boards  and  central advisory	 boards	 for  fixingminimum	 rates	of wages and the  recommendations  of  thesecommittees  are forwarded to the appropriate Government	 whoby notification in the official gazette fix minimum rates ofwages	in  respect  of	 each  scheduled  employment.	 Thenotification  is a token of the approval by the	 appropriateGovernment112of these recommendations of the Committees and invests	themwith legal sanction.The recent amendment of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act,1946,  empowers the State Government by notification in	 theofficial Gazette to constitute for one or more industries  awage  board for the State and enjoins these wage  boards  tofollow the same procedure as the Industrial Court in respectof  arbitration proceedings before it and appeals  from	 thedecisions of these wage boards lie to the Industrial  Courtswhich  has powers of superintendence and control over  thesewage boards and it cannot, under the circumstances be  urgedthat these wage boards perform any legislative functions.These  are the two opposite points of view which  have	beenpressed	 before	 us and it is impossible to state  that	 thefunctions performed by the wage boards are necessarily of  alegislative  character.	  It  is no doubt  true	 that  theirdeterminations bind not only the employers and the employeesin  the present, but they also operate when accepted by	 theappropriate  government	 or  authorities  and  notified	  inaccordance  with  law,	to bind	 the  future  employers	 andemployees   in	the  industry.	 If  that  were	 the   only'consideration the dictum of Justice Holmes cited above wouldapply and the functions performed by these wage boards wouldbe  invested with a legislative character.  This is  howevernot  all,  and regard must be had to the provisions  of	 thestatutes constituting the wage boards.	If on a scrutiny  ofthe  provisions	 in  regard  thereto one  can  come  to	 theconclusion  that  they	are appointed only with	 a  view  todetermine  the	relations  between  the	 employers  and	 theemployees  in the future in regard to the wages	 payable  tothe employees there would be justification for holding	thatthey were performing legislative functions.  If, however, ona  consideration  of  all the  relevant	 provisions  of	 thestatutes bringing the wage boards into existence, it appearsthat  the  powers  and	procedure  exercised  by  them	 areassimilated  to	 those	of  Industrial	Tribunals  or  theiradjudications are subject to judicial review at the hands ofhigher Tribunals exercising- judicial or quasi-judicial113functions,  it cannot be predicated that these	wage  boardsare exercising legislative functions.  Whether they exercisethese  functions  or  not is thus to be	 determined  by	 therelevant  provisions of the statutes incorporating them	 andit would be impossible to lay down any universal rule  whichwould help in the' determination of this question.Even  if on the construction of the relevant  provisions  ofthe  statute  we come to the conclusion that  the  functionsperformed   by	a  particular  wage  board  are	 not  of   alegislative  character, the question still  remains  whetherthe  functions	exercised  by  them  are  administrative  incharacter  or  judicial	 or  quasi-judicial  in	  character,because	 only  in the latter event would their	decision  beamenable  to the writ jurisdiction or to the  special  leavejurisdiction above referred to.There is no doubt that these wage boards are not  exercisingpurely	judicial  functions.   They are not  courts  in	 thestrict	sense  of  the term and	 the  functions	 which	theyperform	 may  at best be quasi-judicial in  character.	 Thefact  that they are administrative agencies set up  for	 thepurpose of fixation of wages do not necessarily invest theirfunctions  with an administrative character and in spite  oftheir  being administrative bodies they can nevertheless  beexercising  quasi-judicial functions if	 certain  conditionsare fulfilled.The  position in law has been thus summarised in  Halsbury'sLaws of England, 3rd Ed., Vol. 11, at pp. 55-56:-"  The	orders	of certiorari and prohibition  will  lie  tobodies	and  persons other than courts stricto	sensu.	 Anybody   of  persons  having  legal  authority  to   determinequestions  affecting the rights of subjects, and having	 theduty  to  act  judicially, is  subject	to  the	 controllingjurisdiction  of  the High Court of  Justice,  exercised  bymeans  of these orders.	 It is not necessary that it  shouldbe a court; an administrative body in ascertaining facts  orlaw  may be under a duty to act	 judicially  notwithstandingthat  its proceedings have none of the formalities  of,	 andare not in accordance15114with the practice of, a court of law.  It is enough if it isexercising,  after hearing evidence, judicial  functions  inthe  sense  that  it has to decide  on	evidence  between  aproposal  and an opposition.  A body may be under  a,  duty,however, to act judicially (and subject to control by  meansof  these  orders) although there is no form of	 lies  interpartes	before	it;  it is enough that	it  should  have  todetermine  a question solely on the facts of the  particularcase, solely on the evidence before it, apart from questionsof policy or any other extraneous considerations.""  Moreover  an	 administrative	 body,	whose  decision	  isactuated in whole or in part by questions of policy, may  beunder a duty to act judicially in the course of arriving  atthat decision.	Thus, if in order to arrive at the decision,the body concerned had to consider proposals and  objectionsand  consider evidence, if at some stage of the	 proceedingsleading up to the decision there was something in the natureof   a	lies  before  it,  then	 in  the  course   of	suchconsideration  and at that stage the body would be  under  aduty  to  act  judicially.   If,  on  the  other  hand,	  anadministrative	body in arriving at its decision has  beforeit  at	no  stage  any form of lis  and	 throughout  has  toconsider  the question from the point of view of policy	 andexpediency, it cannot be said that it is under a duty at anytime to act judicially."(See  also the decision of this Court in Nagendra Nath	Borav. Commissioner of Hills Division and Appeals, Assam (1).In  order therefore to determine whether  an  administrativebody  is exercising a quasi-judicial function, it  would  benecessary  to examine in the first instance, whether it	 hasto  decide on evidence between a proposal and an  oppositionand  secondly, whether it is under a duty to act  judiciallyin the matter of arriving at its decision."  The duty to act judicially may arise in widely  differingcircumstances  which  it would be impossible to	 attempt  todefine exhaustively.  The question whether or not there is aduty to act judicially must be decided(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 1240.115in  each  case	in the light of	 the  circumstances  of	 theparticular  case  and  the construction	 of  the  particularstatute,  with	the  assistance of  the	 general  principlesalready set out." (Ibid, para. 115).The  decision  in R. v. Manchester Legal  Aid  Committee  Exparte  R.  A.  Brand  & Co. Ltd.  (1),	lays  down  when  anadministrative body can be said to have a duty toact judicially:" The true view, as it seems to us, is that the duty to	 actjudicially may arise in widely different circumstances whichit would be impossible, and, indeed, inadvisable, to attemptto  define  exhaustively.  Where the decision is that  of  acourt,	then,  unless,	as in the  case,  for  instance,  ofjustices granting excise licences, it is acting in a  purelyministerial  capacity,	it is clearly under a  duty  to	 actjudicially.   When, on the other hand, the decision is	thatof  an	administrative body and is actuated in whole  or  inpart by questions of policy, the duty to act judicially	 may-arise	in the course of arriving at that  decision.   Thus,if,  in order to arrive at the decision, the body  concernedhad  to	 consider  proposals, and  objections  and  considerevidence,  then there is the duty to act judicially  in	 thecourse	of  that inquiry.  That, as it seems to us,  is	 thetrue  basis  of	 the decision in Errington  v.	Minister  ofHealth (2)...................................(See  also  Rex	 v. The London	Country	 Council:  Ex  parteEntertainments Protection Association Ld. (3)..............."  Further, an administrative body in ascertaining facts  orlaw   may   be	under  a  duty	to   act   judicially	not-withstanding.that   its	  proceedings  have  none   of	 theformalities  of and are not in accordance with the  practiceof a court of law."Vide Board of Education v. Rice	   (4)"  More	 recently it has been held by this  Court  on  ,manyoccasions that certiorari will lie to quash the decision  ofrent control tribunals, and this notwith-(1)  [1952] 2 Q.B. 413, 428, 429, 430.(2)  [1935] 1 K.B. 249.(3)  [1931] 2 K.B. 215, 233-4.(4)  [1910] A.C. 179, 182.116standing that such a tribunal is entitled to act on its	 ownknowledge   and	  information,	 without   evidence   unlesssubmitted,  and	 without a hearing except on notice  from  aparty; see Rex v. Brighton. and Area Rent Tribunal (1)." If, on the other hand, an administrative body in  arrivingat  its decision at no stage has before it any form  of	 lisand  throughout has to consider the question from the  pointof view of policy and expediency, it cannot be said that  itis  under  a duty at any stage to  act	judicially:  CompareFranklin v. Minister of Town and Country Planning." (2).It is strenuously urged before us by learned counsel for thepetitioners  that  if the functions which  the	wage  boardsperform in the matter of fixation of the rates of wages	 areconsidered  in the light of the principles cited  above,  itwould appear that as between the employers, on the one hand,and the employees, on the other, there is a proposition	 andopposition.    The  employees  demand  that   a	  particularstatutory  minimum  wage should be fixed and the  scales  ofwages should also be determined in a particular manner.	 Theemployers  on their part would maintain that the status	 quoshould	continue or that, in any event, much less  than	 thestatutory  minimum wage demanded by the employees should  befixed and also that the scales of wages should be fixed on agradation which is much less than or in any event, differentfrom that suggested by the employees.  The employees may saythat  certain factors which are material in the fixation  ofwages and which affect the employees should be considered asdeterminative of the rates of wages while the importance  ofthese factors may be sought to be minimized by the employerswho might put forward certain other factors affecting  them,in  their  turn,  as  determinative  of	 those	rates,	 theimportance  of	which may be sought to be minimized  by	 theemployees  on  the  other  hand.   All	these  would  createproposition  and  opposition on both sides with	 the  resultthat  a lis would arise between them.  The determination  ofthese(1)  [1950] 2 K.B- 410.(2)  [1948] A.C. 87, 102.117points	at  issue would have to be' arrived at by  the	wageboards and the wage boards could only do so after collectingproper	data  and  materials and hearing  evidence  in	thatbehalf.	 If the functions performed by the wage board  wouldthus consist of the determination of the issues as between aproposition and an opposition on data and materials gatheredby  the board in answers to the questionnaire issued to	 allparties interested and the evidence led before it, there  isno doubt that there would be imported in the proceedings  ofthe  wage board a duty to act judicially and  the  functionsperformed  by  the  wage board	would  be  quasijudicial  incharacter.  It has been on the other hand urged before us bythe  learned  counsel  for the	respondents  that  the	veryconstitution  of the wage boards is against the	 fundamentalprinciple  of  jurisprudence which postulates  that  no	 manshould be a judge in his own cause.  It was laid down by theHouse  of Lords in Franklin v. Minister of Town and  CountryPlanning (1) at p. 103:"  My  Lords, I could wish that the use of the word  bias  "should	be  confined  to  its  proper  sphere.	 Its  propersignificance,  in my opinion, is to denote a departure	fromthe  standard of even-handed justice which the law  requiresfrom  those  who occupy judicial office, or  those  who	 arecommonly  regarded as holding a quasi-judicial office,	suchas  an	arbitrator.  The reason for this  clearly  is,	thathaving to adjudicate as between two or more parties, he mustcome  to his adjudication with an independent mind,  withoutany  inclination  or bias towards one side or other  in	 thedispute."The representatives of the employers and the representativesof  the employees who are appointed on the wage board  alongwith  an independent chairman and some other members, it  issubmitted, would necessarily have a bias in favour of  thosewhom they represent and therefore would not be competent  tobe  judges and the wage board thus constituted could  hardlybe called a judicial body.There is considerable force in these contentions, but(1)  [1948] A.C. 87,102.118we  do not feel called upon to express our final opinion  onthis  question	in  view of the	 conclusion  which  we	havehereafter reached in regard to the ultra vires character  ofthe decision of the Wage Board itself.	We are however boundto  observe that whatever be the character of the  functionsperformed by the wage boards whether they be legislative  orquasi-judicial,	 if  proper safeguards are  adopted  of	 thenature	discussed  earlier, e. g.,  provision  for  judicialreview	or the adopting of the procedure as in the  case  ofthe  recommendations  of  the wage councils  in	 the  UnitedKingdom,  or  the reports of the advisory  committees  whichcome  to be considered by the administrator under  the	FairLabour	Standards  Act	of  1938 in  the  United  States  ofAmerica,  no  objection	 could ever  be	 urged	against	 thedeterminations	of  the wage boards thus arrived at  on	 thescore  of  the	principles of natural  justice	having	beenviolated.We now proceed to consider how far the impugned Act violatesthe fundamental rights of the petitioners.Re : Article 19 (1) (a).Art.  19  (1) (a) guarantees to all citizens  the  right  tofreedom of speech and expression. it has, however, got to beread  along  with  Art.	 19  (2)  which	 lays  down  certainconstitutionally permissible limitations on the exercise  ofthat right.  Art. 19 (2) as substituted by the	Constitution(First Amendment) Act, 1951, with retrospective effect readsas under:"  Nothing in sub-clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect	 theoperation  of  any existing law, or prevent the	 State	frommaking	any  law, in so far as such law	 imposes  reasonablerestrictions  on the exercise of the right conferred by	 thesaid  sub-clause  in the interests of the  security  of	 theState, friendly relations with foreign States, public order,decency	 or morality, or in relation to contempt  of  court,defamation or incitement to an offence."If  any limitation on the exercise of the fundamental  rightunder Art. 19 (1) (a) does not fall within the four  cornersof Art. 19 (2) it cannot be upheld.Freedom	 of speech and expression includes within its  scopethe freedom of the press and it would be119apposite  here	to refer to the following  passages  from  "Freedom of the Press-A Framework of Principles " (Report  ofthe  Commission on Freedom of Press in the United States  ofAmerica).The General Meaning of Freedom:To be free is to have the use of one's powers of action	 (i)without	 restraint  or control from outside  and  (ii)	withwhatever means or equipment the action requires."  The	primary	 suggestion of the term	 "  freedom  is	 thenegative  one, the absence of external interference  whetherto  suppress or to constrain.  To be free is essentially  tobe free from something-some arbitrary impediment to  action,some  dominating power or authority.  And so long as it	 canbe  taken for granted that the unhindered person has all  heneeds  to  act withwhich is usually the	 case  the  negativemeaning remains the chief element of the conception." But since freedom is for action, and action is for an end,the  positive  kernel  of freedom lies	in  the	 ability  toachieve	 the  end;  to be free means to	 be  free  for	someaccomplishment.	  And this implies command of the  means  toachieve	 the  end.   Unless  the  equipment  necessary	 foreffective action is at hand, unrestraint may be a mockery offreedom..................  Unrestraint without equipment  isnot  liberty for any end which demands equipment." (pp.	 54-55).Resulting Conception of Freedom of the Press:"  The	emerging conception of freedom of the press  may  besummarised as follows,%As  with all freedoms, press freedom means freedom from	 andfreedom	 for.	A free press is free from  compulsions	fromwhatever   source,  governmental  or  social,  external	  orinternal.   From  compulsions, not from	 pressures;  for  nopress  can  be	free from pressures  except  in	 a  moribundsociety	 empty	of  contending forces  and  beliefs.   Thesepressures, however, if they are persistent and distorting-asfinancial,  clerical, popular, institutional  pressures	 maybecome-approach compulsion; and something is then lost	fromeffective120freedom	 which	the  press  and its  public  must  unite  torestore.," A free press is free for the expression of opinion in	 allits  phases.  It is free for the achievement of those  goalsof   press  service  on	 which	its  own  ideals   and	 therequirements  of  the community combine and  which  existingtechniques make possible.  For these ends it must have	fullcommand	  of   technical  resources,   financial   strength,reasonable  access  to sources of information  at  home	 andabroad,	  and	the  necessary	 facilities   for   bringinginformation to the national market.  The press must grow  tothe measure of this market."(p. 228).There is paucity of authority in India on the nature,  scopeand  extent of this fundamental right to freedom  of  speechand  expression	 enshrined  in	Art.  19  (1)  (a)  of	 theConstitution.	The  first case which came up  for  decisionbefore this court was that of Ramesh Thaper v. The State  ofMadras	(1).   It  was	a case of a ban	 on  the  entry	 andcirculation  of	 the  appellant's journal in  the  State  ofMadras under the provisions of section 9 (1-A) of the MadrasMaintenance  of Public Order Act, 1949, and it was  observedby Patanjali Sastri J.(as he then was) at p. 597:"  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  freedom  of	 speech	 andexpression  includes  freedom of propagation of	 ideas,	 andthat  freedom is ensured by the freedom of  circulation.   "Liberty	 of circulation is as essential to that	 freedom  asthe liberty of publication.  Indeed, without circulation thepublication  would  be of little value.": Ex  parte  Jackson(2).  See also Lovell V. City of Griffin (3).Brij Bhushan & Anr. v. The State, of Delhi (4) was the	nextcase  which  came up for decision before this Court  and  itconcerned the constitutionality of section 7 (i) (e) of	 theEast Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949.  It was a provision forthe  imposition of pre-censorship on a	journal.   PatanjaliSastri J. (as he then was)(1)  [1950] S.C.R- 594, 597.(2) (1877)96 U-S- 727 ; 24 L. Ed. 877.(3) (1937) 303 U-S- 444 ; 82 L. Ed. 949.(4) [1950] S.C.R. 605, 6o8.121who delivered the majority judgment observed at p. 608:-"  There  can  be  little  doubt  that	the  imposition	  ofprecensorship  on a journal is a restriction on the  libertyof  the	 press which is an essential part of  the  right  tofreedom	 of  speech and expression declared by Art.  19	 (1)(a).  As pointed out by Blackstone in his Commentaries " theliberty	 of  the  Press	 consists  in  laying  no   previousrestraint upon publications, and not in freedom from censurefor  criminal matter when published.  Every freeman  has  anundoubted right to lay what sentiments he Pleases before thepublic;	 to  forbid this, is to destroy the freedom  of	 thepress. (Blackstone's Commentaries, Vol.	 IV, pp. 151, 152)."These are the only two decisions of this Court which involvethe interpretation of Art. 19 (1) (a) and they only lay downthat  the freedom of speech and expression includes  freedomof  propagation	 of ideas which freedom is  ensured  by	 thefreedom of circulation and that the liberty of the press  isan  essential  part of the right to freedom  of	 speech	 andexpression  and	 that  liberty	of  the	 press	consists  inallowing no previous restraint upon publication.There  is  however, a considerable body of authority  to  befound  in the decisions of the Supreme Court of	 the  UnitedStates of America bearing on this concept of the freedom  ofspeech	and  expression.  Amendment I of  that	Constitutionlays down:" Congress shall make no law.................. abridging thefreedom of speech or of the press ............"It  is	trite to observe that the fundamental right  to	 thefreedom of speech and expression enshrined in Art.  19(1)(a)of  our	 Constitution  is  based  on  these  provisions	  inAmendment  I  of the Constitution of the  United  States  ofAmerica	 and it would be therefore legitimate and proper  torefer to those decisions of the Supreme Court of the  UnitedStates	of America in order to appreciate the  true  nature,scope  and  extent  of this right in spite  of	the  warningadministered  by this Court against the use of American	 andother  cases,  (Vide State of Travancore-Cochin	 &  Ors.  v.Bombay Co.16122Ltd. (1) and State of Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala (2).Grosjean  v.  American	Press Co. (3), was a  case  where  astatute imposed a license tax on the business of  publishingadvertisements and it was observed at p. 668:"  The evils to be prevented were not the censorship of	 thepress  merely, but any action of the Government by means  ofwhich  it might prevent such free and general discussion  ofpublic matters as seems absolutely essential to prepare	 thepeople	for  an	 intelligent exercise, of  their  rights  ascitizens."  (Vide Cooley's Constitutional  Limitations,	 8thEdn., Vol. 11, p. 886).The  statute  was  there  struck  down	as  unconstitutionalbecause	 in  the  light of its history and  of	its  presentsetting it was seen to be a deliberate and calculated devicein  the	 guise	of  a  tax  to	limit  the  circulation	  ofinformation  to which the public was entitled in  virtue  ofthe constitutional guarantees.The  following	passage from the dissenting opinion  in	 TheAssociated Press v. The National Labour Relations Board	 (4)is also instructive:" If the freedom of the press does not include the right  toadopt and pursue a policy without governmental	restriction,it  is	a misnomer to call it freedom.	And we may  as	welldeny at once the right to the press freely to adopt a policyand pursue it, as to concede that right and deny the libertyto  exercise  an  uncensored  judgment	in  respect  of	 theemployment  and	 discharge of the agents  through  whom	 thepolicy is to be effectuated."It was also observed there at p. 965:" Due regard for the constitutional guarantee requires	thatthe  publisher or agency of the publisher of news  shall  befree  from  restraint  in  respect  of	employment  in	 theeditorial force."Schneider v. Irvingtor (5) was concerned with the effect  ofthe Municipal Regulations against littering of(1) [1952] S.C. R. I I 12, I 120.  (2) [1957] S. C. R. 87 4,918.(3)  (1935) 297 U.S. 233, 249; go L. Ed. 66o, 668.(4)  (1936) 30I U.S. 103. 136; 81 L. Ed. 953. 963.(5)  (1939) 308 U-S- 147; 84 L. Ed. 155, 164.123streets.   In the course of its decision the Court made	 thefollowing observations at p. 164:"  This	 court has characterized the freedom of	 speech	 andthat  of  the  press  as  fundamental  personal	 rights	 andliberties.   The  phrase  is not an empty one  and  was	 notlightly used.  It reflects the belief of the framers of	 theConstitution  that  exercise  of  the  rights  lies  at	 thefoundation  of free government by free press.  It  stresses,as  do	many  opinions	of this	 court,	 the  importance  ofpreventing the restriction of enjoyment of these liberties."Non-interference by the State with this right was emphasizedin Thomas v. Collins (1) at p. 448:-" But it cannot be the duty, because it is not the right, ofthe State to protect the public against false doctrine.	 Thevery  purpose of the First Amendment is to foreclose  publicauthority from I assuming a guardianship of the public	mindthrough regulating the press, speech, and religion.  In thisfield  every  person  must be his own  watchman	 for  truth,because	 the  forefathers did not trust	 any  Government  toseparate the true from the false for us...........In 93 L. Ed. at p. 1151 is given a summary of the  decisionsof the Supreme Court of the United States of America on thissubject under the heading " The Supreme Court and the  rightof  Free Speech and Press " and it contains at p.  1153	 thefollowing  passage  under the caption " Right in  General  :Freedom from Censorship and Punishment ":"  The	freedom	 of  speech and	 of  press  are	 fundamentalpersonal  rights & liberties, the exercise of which lies  atthe  foundation of free Government by  free  men............The  very  purpose of the first Amendment  is  to  foreclosepublic authority from assuming a guardianship of the  publicmind through regulating the press, speech, and religion;  itrests	on   the  assumption  that   the   widest   possibledissemination  of information from diverse and	antagonisticsources is essential to the welfare of the public."The  dissenting	 opinion  of Douglas J.	 in  Beauharnais  v.Illinois(2) contains the following at p. 943:(1)  (1944) 323 U-S- 516, 545 ; 89 L. Ed- 430, 448.(2)  (1951) 313 U.S. 250, 285; 96 L. Ed. 919, 943.124There  is  room	 for regulation of the	ways  and  means  ofinvading privacy.  No such leeway is granted the invasion ofthe right of free speech guaranteed by the First  Amendment.Until recent years that had been the course and direction ofconstitutional	law.   Yet recently the Court  in  this	 andother  cases has engraved the right of regulation  onto	 theFirst  Amendment by placing in the hands of the	 legislativebranch	the right to regulate " within reasonable  limits  "the  right  of free speech.  This to me is  an	ominous	 andalarming  trend.  The free trade in ideas which the  framersof  the	 Constitution visualised disappears.  In  its  placethere  is  substituted	a new  orthodoxy-an  orthodoxy	thatchanges	 with the whims of the age or the day, an  orthodoxywhich  the  majority  by solemn	 judgment  proclaims  to  beessential  to  the safety, welfare, security,  morality,  orhealth of Society.  Free speech in the constitutional  sensedisappears.  Limits are drawn-limits dictated by expediency,political  opinion, prejudices or some other desideratum  oflegislative action."It is clear from the above that in the United Statesof America:(a)  the freedom of speech comprehends the freedom of  pressand the freedom of speech and press are fundamental personalrights of the citizens;(b)the	freedom of the press rests on the assumption  thatthe  widest  possible  dissemination  of  information	fromdiverse and antagonistic sources is essential to the welfareof the public;(c)  Such freedom is the foundation of free Government of  afree people;(d)the	purpose of such a guarantee is to  prevent  publicauthorities  from  assuming the guardianship of	 the  publicmind and(e)freedom of press involves freedom of employment or non-employment  of the necessary means of exercising this  rightor  in other words, freedom from restriction in	 respect  ofemployment in the editorial force.This is the concept of the freedom of speech and  expressionas it obtains in the United States of America			 125and  the necessary corollary thereof is that no measure	 canbe  enacted which would have the effect of imposing  a	pre-censorship,  curtailing the circulation or  restricting	 thechoice of employment or unemployment in the editorial force.Such a measure would certainly tend to infringe the  freedomof speech and expression and would therefore be liable to bestruck down as unconstitutional.The press is however, not immune from. the ordinary forms oftaxation  for  support	of  the	 Government  nor  from	 theapplication  of	 the  general laws  relating  to  industrialrelations.   It was observed in Grosjean v.  American  PressCo. (1):"  It  is not intended by anything we have said	 to  suggestthat  the  owners of newspapers are immune from any  of	 theordinary  forms of taxation for support of  the	 Government;But  this is not an ordinary form of tax but one  single  inkind  with  a  long history of hostile	misuse	against	 thefreedom of the press."  The	predominant purpose of the grant  of  immunity	hereinvoked	 was  to preserve an untrammeled press	as  a  vocalsource of public information.  The newspapers, magazines andother journals of the country, it is safe to say, have	shedand continue to shed, more light on the public and  businessaffairs	 of  the nation than any  other	 instrumentality  ofpublicity;  and	 since informed public opinion is  the	mostpatent of all restraints upon misgovernment, the suppressionor  abridgment	of the publicity afforded by  a	 free  presscannot	be regarded otherwise than with gave  concern.	 Thetax here involved is bad not because it takes money from thepockets	 of  the  appellees.  If that  were  all,  a  whollydifferent question would be presented.	It is bad:  Because,in  the light of its history and of its present setting,  itis  seen  to be a deliberate and calculated  device  in	 theguise  of a tax to limit the circulation of  information  towhich the public is entitled in virtue of the constitutionalguarantees.   A	 free  press  stands as	 one  of  the  greatinterpreters  between  the Government and  the	people.	  Toallow it to be fettered is to fetter ourselves."(1)  (1935) 297 U-S- 233, 249; 80 L. Ed. 660, 668.126In  The Associated Press v. National Labour Relations  Board(1),  it was held that the freedom of the press	 safeguardedby  the First Amendment was not abridged by the	 applicationin the case of an editor employed by the Associated Press todetermine  the	news  value of the  items  received  and  torewrite them for transmission to members of the	 associationthroughout the United States who must function without	biasand  prejudice,	 of the provisions of  the  National  LabourRelations  Act which inhibited an employer from	 dischargingan  employee  because of union activities.  It	was  furtherobserved at p. 960:"  So  it is said that any regulation  protective  of  unionactivities, or the right collectively to bargain on the partof such employees, is necessarily an invalid invasion of thefreedom of the press.  We think that the contention not onlyhas  no relevance to the circumstances of the  instant	casebut is an unsound, generalization."Murdock v. Pennsylvania (2), was a case of a license fee forthe  sale of religious books and Mr. Justice Frankfurter  inhis dissenting opinion at p. 1311 observed:"  A  tax upon newspaper publishing is	not  invalid  simplybecause	 it  falls upon -the exercise  of  a  constitutionalright.	 Such  a  tax might be	invalid	 if  it	 invidiouslysingled	 out newspaper publishing for bearing the burden  oftaxation or imposed upon them in such ways as to encroach onthe  essential	scope of a free press.	If the	Court  couldjustifiably  hold that the tax measures in these cases	werevulnerable on that ground, I would unreservedly agree.	 Butthe Court has not done so, and indeed could not.  "In  Oklahoma  Press Publishing Co. v. Walling  (1),  and  inMabee  v. White Planis Publishing Co. (4) the  Federal	FairLabour Standards Act was held applicable to the press and itwas observed in the former case at p. 621:" Here there was no singling out of the press for  treatmentdifferent  from	 that accorded other  business	in  general.Rather the Act's purpose was to place(1)  (1936) 301 U.S. 103,136; 81 L. Ed. 953, 963.(2)  (1942) 319 U-S- 105, 136 ; 87 L. Ed. 1292, 1311.(3)  (1945) 327 U. S. 186. 194; go L. Ed. 614, 621.(4)  (1945) 327 U. S. 178; 90 L. Ed. 607.127publishers  of	newspapers upon the same  plane	 with  otherbusinesses  and the exemption for small newspapers  had	 thesame  object.	Nothing in the Grosjean	 case  (1),  forbidsCongress  to  exempt some publishers because  of  size	fromeither a tax or a regulation which would be valid if appliedto all."The  Constitution of the United States of  America--Analysisand  Interpretation-Prepared  by the  Legislative  ReferenceService,  Library of Congress, summarises the position	thusat p. 792 :"  The	Supreme	 Court, citing the fact	 that  the  AmericanRevolution   "	 really	  began	  when...............	thatGovernment (of England) sent stamps for newspaper duties  tothe American colonies " has been alert to the possible	usesof  taxation  as  a  method  of	 suppressing   objectionablepublications.  Persons engaged in the dissemination of ideasare,  to be sure, subject to ordinary forms of	taxation  inlike  manner as other persons.	With respect to	 license  orprivilege taxes, however, they stand on a different footing.Their privilege is granted by the Constitution and cannot bewithheld by either State or Federal Government." The application to newspapers of the Anti-Trust Laws,	 theNational Labour Relations Act, or the Fair Labour  StandardsAct, does not abridge the freedom of the press."The  Laws  regulating payment of wages have  similarly	beenheld  as not abridging the freedom of speech and  expressionand  the following observations in the same publication	 (atp. 988) in regard to the Minimum Wage Laws are apposite:"MINIMUM  WAGE	LAWS:  The theory  that	 a  law	 prescribingminimum wages for women and children violates due process byimpairing freedom of contract was finally discarded in	1937(West  Coast  Hotel  Co. v. Parrish, 300 U.  S.	 379).	 Thecurrent theory of the Court, particularly when labor is	 thebeneficiary  of legislation, was recently stated by  JusticeDouglas for a majority of the Court, in the following terms:"  Our recent decisions make plain that we do not sit  as  asuper-legislature to weigh the wisdom of legislation nor(1)  (1935) 297 'U-S. 233. 249; 89 L. Ed. 660, 668.128to decide whether the policy which it expresses offends	 thepublic	welfare............ But the state legislatures	haveconstitutional authority to experiment with new	 techniques;they  are  entitled  to their own  standard  of	 the  publicwelfare;  they	may within extremely broad  ,limits  controlpractice;  in the business-labor field, so long as  specificconstitutional prohibitions are not violated and so long  asconflicts  with	 valid	and  controlling  federal  laws	 areavoided	 (Day-Brite  Lighting, Inc. v. Missouri, 342  U.  S.421, 423 (1952) )."While  therefore no such immunity from the general laws	 canbe claimed by the press it would certainly not be legitimateto subject the press to laws which take away or abridge	 thefreedom	 of  speech and expression or  which  would  curtailcirculation and thereby narrow the scope of dissemination ofinformation,  or fetter its freedom to choose its  means  ofexercising the right or would undermine its independence  bydriving	 it to seek Government aid.  Laws which	 single	 outthe  press  for	 laying upon it	 excessive  and	 prohibitiveburdens	 which	would  restrict the  circulation,  impose  apenalty	 on  its  right to choose the  instruments  for	 itsexercise  or  to seek an alternative  media,  prevent  news-papers from being started and ultimately drive the press  toseek Government aid in order to survive, would therefore  bestruck down as unconstitutional.Such  laws  would  not	be  saved  by  Art.  19(2)  of	 theConstitution.  This Court had occasion to consider the scopeof  Art. 19(2) in Brij Bhushan & Anr. v. The State of  Delhi(1),  where Fazl Ali J. in his dissenting judgment  observedat p. 619."  It  must  be	 recognized  that  freedom  of	speech	 andexpression is one of the most valuable rights guaranteed  toa  citizen  by	the Constitution  and  should  be  jealouslyguarded by the Court.  It must also be recognised that	freepolitical discussion is essential for the proper functioningof  a democratic government, and the tendency of the  modernjurists	 is  to deprecate censorship though they  all  agreethat " liberty of the press " is not to be confused with its" licentiousness(1)  [1950) S.C.R. 605, 608.129But  the Constitution itself has prescribed  certain  limitsand  this  Court  is  only called  upon	 to  see  whether  aparticular case comes within those limits.  "Unless,	 therefore, a law enacted by the  Legislature  comessquarely  within the provisions of Art. 19 (2) it would	 notbe  saved and would be struck down as'	unconstitutional  onthe  score  of its violating the fundamental  right  of	 thepetitioners under Art. 19 (1) (a).In   the   present  case  it  is  obvious  that	  the	onlyjustification for the enactment of the impugned Act is	thatit  imposes  reasonable restrictions in the interests  of  asection of the general public, viz., the working journalistsand other persons employed in the newspaper  establishments.It  does not fall within any of the categories specified  inArt. 19 (2), viz.,"  In the interests of the security of the  State,  friendlyrelations  with	 foreign States, public	 order,	 decency  ormorality,  or in relation to. contempt of court,  defamationor incitement to an offence."Article 19 (2) being thus out of the question the only pointthat falls to be determined by us is whether the  provisionsof  the	 impugned Act in any way take away  or	abridge	 thepetitioners'  fundamental  right of freedom  of	 speech	 andexpression.It  was contended before us by the learned  Attorney-Generalthat it was only legislation directly dealing with the rightmentioned  in Art. 19 (1) (a) that was protected by it.	  Ifthe legislation was not a direct legislation on the  subject" Art. 19 (1) (a) would have no application, the test  beingnot  the  effect or result of legislation but  its  subject-matter.	  In  support of his contention he relied  upon	 thefollowing  observations of Kania C. J. in A. K.	 Gopalan  v.The State of Madras (1)." As the preventive detention order results in the detentionof  the applicant in a cell it was contended on	 his  behalfthat the rights specified in article 19 (1), (a), (b),	(c),(d),  (e) and (g) have been infringed.	It was	argued	thatbecause	 of  his detention he cannot have a  free  right  tospeech as and where he, desired and the(1)[1950] S.C.R. 88, 100.17130same argument was urged in respect of the rest of the rightsmentioned  in  sub-clauses  (b),  (c),	(d),  (e)  and	(g).Although  this	argument is advanced in a case	which  dealswith   preventive  detention,  if  correct,  it	 should	  beapplicable in the case of punitive detention also to any onesentenced  to  a term of imprisonment  Linder  the  relevantsection	 of  the  Indian Penal	Code.	So  considered,	 theargument  must	clearly be rejected In spite of	 the  savingclauses	 (2)  to (5), permitting abridgement of	 the  rightsconnected with each of them punitive detention under severalsections  of  the Penal Code, e. g., for  theft,,  cheating,forgery and even ordinary assault, will be illegal.   Unlesssuch conclusion necessarily follows front the article, it isobvious	 that  such construction should be avoided.   In  myopinion,  such	result	is clearly not the  outcome  of	 theConstitution.  The article has to be read. without any	pro-conceived  notions.   So  read, it clearly  means  that	 thelegislation  to be examined must be directly in	 respect  ofone of the rights mentioned in the sub-clauses. -If there isa  legislation	directly attempting to control	a  citizen'sfreedom	 of speech or expression, or his right	to  assemblepeaceably and without arms, etc,, the question whether	thatlegislation  is	 saved	by the	relevant  saving  clause  ofarticle 19 will arise.	If, however, the legislation is	 notdirectly  in  respect  of any of these subjects,  but  as  aresult of the operation of other legislation, -for instance,for punitive or preventive detention, his right under any ofthese	sub-clauses  is	 abridged,  the	 question   of	 theapplication of article 19 does not arise.  The true approachis  only to consider the directness of the  legislation	 andnot  what  will	 be the result of  the	detention  otherwisevalid,	on  the mode of the detent's life.   On	 that  shortground, in my opinion, this argument about the	infringementof  the	 rights mentioned in article 19 (1)  generally	mustfail.	Any other construction put on the article, it  seemsto me, will be unreasonable."This  opinion was expressed by Kania C. J. alone, the  otherlearned	 judges forming the Bench not expressing  themselveson  this  question.  This passage was, however	cited,	withapproval by a Bench of this131Court in Ram Singh & Ors. v. The State of Delhi (1).  It washeld  by  the Full Court in that case that  though  personalliberty	  is  sufficiently  comprehensive  to  include	 thefreedoms enumerated in Art. 19 (1) and its deprivation wouldresult in the extinction of these freedoms, the Constitutionhis  treated  these  constitutional  liberties	as  distinctfundamrntal rights and made separate provisions in Arts. 19,21  and 22 ,is to the limitations and conditions subject  towhich	alone  they  could  be	taken  away   or   abridged.Consequently, even though a law which restricts the  freedomof speech and expression is not directed solely against the,undermining of security of the State or its overthrow but isconcerned generally in the interests of public order may notfait  within the reservation of cl. (2) of Art. 19  and	 maytherefore  be void, an order of preventive detention  cannotbe held to be, invalid merelybecause:" the detention is made with a view to prevent the making ofspeeches   prejudicial	 to  the,  maintenance	 of   publicorder................."This  was  also	 a case of detention  under  the  PreventiveDetention  Act	and  the detention of the  detenu  had	beenordered	 with  a view to prevent him  from  making  speechesprejudicial  to	 the maintenance of  public  order.   Publicorder was not one of the categories mentioned in Art. 19 (2)as  it	then  stood, and any restriction  imposed  upon	 thefreedom	 of speech and expression could nit be justified  onthat  ground,  the only relevant ground in  that  connectionthen  being undermining of the security of the State or	 itsoverthrow.   A	restriction  on the freedom  of	 speech	 andexpression  ill	 the  maintenance  of  public  order   wouldtherefore  not have been justified under Art. 19 (2) and  ifthe  Court  had	 come to the conclusion that  there  was  aninfringement   of  the	right  of  freedom  of	speech	 andexpression the order could not have been saved under Art. 19(2).   The  Court  however, took the view  that	 the  directobject	of  the order was preventive detention and  not	 theinfringement   of  the	right  of  freedom  of	speech	 andexpression, which was merely(1)[1951] S.C.R.451, 455.132consequential upon the detention of the detenu and thereforeupheld the validity of the order.  It was, therefore,  urgedby  the	 learned  Attorney-General that the  object  of	 theimpugned  Act  was only to regulate  certain  conditions  ofservice of working journalists and other persons employed inthe newspaper establishments and not to take away or abridgethe right of freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by thepetitioners  and that therefore the impugned Act  could	 notcome  within the prohibition of Art. 19 (1) (a)	 read  with.Art. 13 (2) of the Constitution.It  was	 contended,  on the other hand,	 on  behalf  of	 thepetitioners  that  the	Court has got to look  at  the	truenature	and  character	of the	legislation  and  judge	 itssubstance  and not its form, or in other words,	 its  effectand  operation.	  It was pointed out that the  impugned	 Actviewed as a whole was one to regulate the employment of	 thenecessary  organs  of newspaper publications  and  thereforerelated to the freedom of the Press and as such came  withinthe prohibition.  Reliance was placed in this behalf on	 thefollowing passage in Minnesota Ex Rel.	Olson (1):" With respect to these contentions it is enough to say thatin  passing  upon  constitutional questions  the  Court	 hasregard	to  substance and not to mere matters of  form,	 andthat,  in accordance with familiar principles,	the  statutemust be tested by its operation and effect."The following observations of Mahajan J. (as he then was) inDwarkadas  Shrinivas of Bombay v. The Sholapur Spinning	 andWeaving Co., Ltd. (2) were also relied upon:" In order to decide these issues it is necessary to examinewith  some strictness the substance of the  legislation	 forthe purpose of determining _what it is that the	 legislaturehas  really done; the Court, when such questions  arise,  isnot overpersuaded by the mere appearance of the legislation.In   relation  to  Constitutional  prohibitions	 binding   alegislature it is clear that the legislature cannot  disobeythe prohibitions merely(1)(1930) 283 U.S. 697, 708; 75 L. Ed. 1357, 1363.(2)[1954] S.C.R. 674, 683.		      133by  employing indirect method of achieving exactly the	sameresult.	 Therefore, in all such cases the court has to	lookbehind the names, forms and appearances to discover the truecharacter and nature of the legislation."The  impugned  Act  is as its long title  shows	 an  act  toregulate  certain conditions of service of  working  journa-lists and other persons employed in newspaper establishmentsand  in	 the  very  forefront of  the  Act,  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947, is by s. 3 made applicable	 to  workingjournalists with certain modification in connection with theapplication  of	 s.  25F  of that  Act.	  The  rest  of	 theprovisions  contained in ch.  II concerned  themselves	withthe  payment  of  gratuity,  hours of  work  and  leave	 andfixation   of  wages  of  the  -working	 journalists.	 Theregulation  of	the conditions of service is thus  the	mainobject	which is sought to be achieved by the impugned	Act.Chapter	 III  of  the  Act applies  the	 provisions  of	 theIndustrial  Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and	 theEmployees'  Provident Funds Act, 1952, to all the  employeesof  the	 newspaper  establishments wherein  twenty  or	morenewspaper   employees  are  employed  and   covers   workingjournalists as well as other employees in the employ of	 thenewspaper  establishments.   The  miscellaneous	  provisionscontained in ch.  IV are designed merely to implement or  tocarry  out the provisions of the main part of. the  Act	 andthey  do  not make any difference so far as the	 effect	 andoperation  of  the Act is concerned.  If this  is  the	truenature of the Act, it is impossible to say that the Act	 wasdesigned  to  affect the freedom of  speech  and  expressionenjoyed by the petitioners or that was its necessary  effectand  operation.	  It  was  conceded in	the  course  of	 thearguments that if a general law in regard to the  industrialor  labour relations had been applied to the press  industryas a whole no exception could have been taken to it.  If thematter	had  rested with the application of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947, to the working journalists or with	 theapplication  of the Industrial Employment (Standing  Orders)Act, 1946, or the Employees' Provident Fund,% Act, 1952,  tothem no exception could have been taken to this134measure.   It  was,  however,  urged  that  apart  from	 theapplication   of   these  general  laws	  to   the   workingjournalists,  there are provisions enacted in  the  impugnedAct in relation to payment of gratuity, hours of work, leaveand  fixation  of the rates of wages  which  are  absolutelyspecial	 to the press industry qua the	working	 journalistsand they have the effect of singling out the press  industryby creating a class of privileged workers with benefits	 andrights	which have not been conferred upon  other  employeesand  the  provisions contained therein have  the  effect  oflaying a direct and preferential burden on the press, have atendency  to curtail the circulation and thereby narrow	 thescope	of   dissemination  of	 information,	fetter	 thepetitioner's freedom to choose the means of exercising theirright  and are likely to undermine the independence  of	 thepress by having to seek Government aid.It is obvious that the enactment of this measure is for	 theamelioration  of  the  conditions  of  the  workmen  in	 thenewspaper industry.  It would not be possible for the  Stateto take up all the industries together and even as a  matterof  policy it would be expedient to take the industries	 oneby one.	 Even in regard to the workmen employed it would  beequally expedient to take a class of employees who stand  ina  separate  category  by  themselves  for  the	 purpose  ofbenefiting   them   in	the   manner   contemplated.	Thiscircumstance by itself would therefore not be indicative  ofany undue preference or a prejudicial treatment being  metedout  to that particular industry, the main object being	 theamelioration  of the conditions of those workmen.  It  couldnot  also be said that there was any ulterior motive  behindthe  enactment of such a measure because the  employers	 mayhave to share a greater financial burden than before or thatthe  working of the industry may be rendered more  difficultthan  before.  These are all incidental disadvantages  whichmay  manifest  themselves  in  the  future  working  of	 theindustry,  but it could not be said that the Legislature  inenacting that measure was aiming at these disadvantages whenit was trying to ameliorate the135conditions   of	 the  workmen.	 Those	employers  who	 arefavourably  situated, may not feel the strain at  all  whilethose of them who are marginally situated may not be able tobear  the  strain  and	may in	conceivable  cases  have  todisappear  'after closing down their establishments.   That,however,  would be a consequence. which would be  extraneousand  not  within the contemplation of the  Legislature.	  Itcould therefore hardly be urged that the possible effect  ofthe  impact  of these measures in  conceivable	cases  wouldvitiate the legislation as such.  All the consequences whichhave  been  visualized in this behalf  by  the	petitioners,viz., the tendency to curtail circulation and thereby narrowthe  scope of dissemination of information, fetters  on	 thepetitioners'  freedom to choose the means of exercising	 theright,	likelihood  of the independence of the	press  beingundermined by having to seek government aid; the  impositionof   penalty  on  the  petitioners'  right  to	choose	 theinstruments for exercising the freedom or compelling them toseek  alternative  media, etc., would be remote	 and  dependupon  various factors which may or may not come	 into  play.Unless	these were the direct or inevitable consequences  ofthe  measures enacted in the impugned Act, it would  not  bepossible  to  strike  down the legislation  as	having	thateffect	and operation.	A possible eventuality of this	typewould  not necessarily be the consequence which could be  inthe  contemplation  of	the  Legislature  while	 enacting  ameasure	 of  this  type	 for  the  benefit  of	the  workmenconcerned.Even though the impugned Act enacts measures for the benefitof  the	 working journalists who are employed  in  newspaperestablishments,	 the working journalists are but  the  vocalorgans	and the necessary agencies for the exercise  of	 theright  of  free speech and expression, and  any	 legislationdirected  towards  the amelioration of their  conditions  ofservice must necessarily affect the newspaper establishmentsand  have  its repercussions on the freedom of	Press.	 Theimpugned Act can therefore be legitimately characterized  asa  measure which affects the press, and if the intention  orthe proximate effect and operation of the Act was such136as  to	bring it within the mischief of Art.  19(1)  (a)  itwould  certainly  be  liable to be struck  down.   The	realdifficulty,  however, in the way of the petitioners is	thatwhatever  be  the measures enacted for the  benefit  of	 theworking journalists neither the intention nor the effect andoperation of the impugned Act is to take away or abridge theright  of  freedom of speech and expression enjoyed  by	 thepetitioners.The gravamen of the complaint of the petitioners against theimpugned Act, however, has been the appointment of the	WageBoard  for  fixation  of  rates of  wages  for	the  workingjournalists  and it is contended that apart from creating  aclass  of privileged workers with benefits and rights  whichwere  not  conferred  upon  other  employees  of  industrialestablishments,	 the Act has left the fixation of  rates  ofwages  to an agency invested with arbitrary and	 uncanalisedpowers	to  impose  an	indeterminate  burden  on  the	wagestructure  of  the press, to impose  such  employer-employeerelations  as in its discretion it thinks fit and to  imposesuch  burden  and  relation-, for such	time  as  it  thinksproper.	  This contention will be more	appropriately  dealtwith  while  considering  the alleged  infringement  of	 thefundamental  right enshrined in Art. 19(1) (g).	 Suffice  itto  say	 that  so far as Art. 19(1) (a)	 is  concerned	thiscontention  also has a remote bearing on the same  and	neednot be discussed here at any particular length.Re: Article (19(1) (g).The fundamental right of the petitioners herein is the rightto carry on any occupation, trade or business.This  freedom also is hemmed in by limitations which are  tobe  found in Art. 19(6), which in so far as it	is  relevantfor our purposes enacts:" Nothing in sub-clause (g) of the said clause shall  affectthe  operation of any existing law in so far as it  imposes,or  prevent the State from making any law imposing,  in	 theinterests of the general public, reasonable restrictions  onthe  exercise  of  the right, conferred	 by  the  said	sub-clause,"137The contention under this head is thus elaborated on  behalfof the petitioners:1.The impugned Act imposes unreasonable restrictions   onthe freedom to carry on business:(a)  in	 empowering  the  fixation of  rates  of  wages	  oncriteria relevant only for fixation of minimum, wages;(b)in  empowering fixation of wages, grant of  gratuity	 andcompensation  without  making it incumbent on the  Board  toconsider the major factor of the capacity of the industry topay;(c)in  authorizing the Board to have. regard to not what  isrelevant  for  such  fixation but to what  the	Board  deemsrelevant for the purpose; and(d)in  providing for a procedure which does not	 compel	 theBoard to conform to the rules under the Industrial  DisputesAct, 1947, thus permitting the Board to follow any arbitraryprocedure violating the principle of audi alteram partem.2.The restrictions enumerated above in so far as they affectthe  destruction  of the petitioners'  business	 exceed	 thebounds of permissible legislation under Art. 19(1)(g).The unreasonableness of the restriction is further sought tobe  emphasized	by  pointing out that under  s.	 12  of	 theimpugned Act, the decision of the Board is declared  bindingon  all	 employers, though the working journalists  axe	 notbound by the same and are entitled, if they are dissatisfiedwith  it,  to  agitate	for  further  revision	by   raisingindustrial  disputes between themselves and their  employersand  having them adjudicated under the	Industrial  DisputesAct, 1947.The test of reasonable restrictions which can be imposed  onthe  fundamental right enshrined in Art. 19(1)(g)  has	beenlaid down by this Court in two decisions:In  Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh(1)  MahajanJ.  (as	 he  then  was) observed  at  p.  763  :"The  phrase  "reasonable  restriction"	 connotes  that	 thelimitation imposed on a. person in enjoyment(1)  [1950] S.C.R. 759, 763.138of  the	 right should not be arbitrary or  of  an  excessivenature,	 beyond	 what is required in the  interests  of	 thepublic.	  The word " reasonable " implies  intelligent	careand  deliberation,  that is, the choice of  a  course  whichreason	 dictates.    Legislation   which   arbitrarily	  orexcessively invades the right cannot be said to contain	 thequality	 of  reasonableness and unless it strikes  a  properbalance between the freedom guaranteed in article  19(1)(g),and  the social control permitted by clause (6)	 of  article19,  it must be held to be wanting in that quality."  [citedwith approval in Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain v. The State  ofUttar Pradesh & Ors. (1) and in Ch.  Tika Ramji v. State of'Uttar Pradesh & Ors.  (2) ].The  State of Madras v. V. G. Rao (3) was the next  case  inwhich  this phrase came to be considered by this  Court	 andPatanjali Sastri C. J. observed atp. 606:-" This Court had occasion in Dr. Khare's case (4) to  definethe scope of the judicial review under clause (5) of Art. 19where  the phrase " imposing reasonable restrictions on	 theexercise  of  the right " also occurs and four of  the	fivejudges participating in the decision expressed the view (theother  judge  leaving  the  question  open)  that  both	 thesubstantive  and  the  procedural aspects  of  the  impugnedrestrictive law should be examined from the point of view ofreasonableness:	 that is to say, the Court  should  considernot only factors such as the duration and the extent of	 therestrictions but also the circumstances under which and	 themanner in which their imposition has been authorised.  It isimportant  in this context to bear in mind that the test  ofreasonableness, where-ever prescribed, should be applied  toeach individual statute impugned, and no abstract  standard,or  general pattern, of reasonableness can be laid  down  asapplicable to all cases.  The nature of the right alleged tohave   been  infringed,	 the  underlying  purpose   of	 therestrictions  imposed,	the extent and urgency of  the	evilsought to be remedied thereby, the disproportion(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 803, 811.(3)  [1952] S.C.R. 597, 606, 607.(2)  [1956] S.C.R. 393, 446.(4)  [1950] S.C.R. 519.139of  the imposition, the prevailing conditions at  the  time,should all enter into the judicial verdict."This  criterion was approved of in State of West  Benqal  v.Subodh	Gopat  Bose  & Others (1) where	 the  present  ChiefJustice	 further expressed his opinion that the fact of	 thestatute	 being	given retrospective operation  may  also  beproperly   taken  into	consideration  in  determining	 thereasonableness of the restriction imposed in the interest ofthe general public [see also a recent decision of this Courtin Virendra v. State of Punjab (2)].The  appointment of a wage board for the purposes of  fixingrates  of wages could not be and was not challenged as	suchbecause	 the  constitution  of such  wage  boards  has	beenconsidered one of the appropriate modes for the fixation  ofrates of wages.	 The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, can onlyapply  when  an	 industrial dispute actually  arises  or  isapprehended to arise between the employers and the employeesin a particular industrial establishment.  Though under	 theamendment of that Act by the Industrial Disputes  (Amendmentand Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1956, (36 of 1956), thereis a provision for the appointment of a National Tribunal bythe  Central Government for the adjudication  of  industrialdisputes  which	 in the opinion of  the	 Central  Governmentinvolve	 questions of national importance or are of  such  anature that industrial establishments situated in more	thanone  State are likely to be interested in, or  affected	 by,such dispute (Vide s. 7-B) the condition precedent, however,is  the	 existence of an industrial dispute  or	 the  appre-hension	 of  one.   If	the wages for  the  employees  of  aparticular  industry  have got to be fixed without  such  anindustrial  dispute  having arisen or being  apprehended  toarise,	the only proper mode of such fixation would  be	 theappointment  of wage boards for the purpose.  They take	 theplace	of  Industrial	Tribunals  or  National	  IndustrialTribunals  and are generally constituted of equal number  ofrepresentatives	 of the employers and the employees in	thatparticular industry along with a quota of independent memberor(1) [1954] S.C.R. 587, 626.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 308.140members one of whom is appointed the chairman of the Board.The  main  grievance of the petitioners, however,  has	beenthat  the  relevant criteria for the fixation  of  rates  ofwages  were not laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act.  Section  8empowered the Central Government to constitute a wage  boardfor fixing rates of wages in respect of working	 journalistsin  accordance	with the provisions of the Act and  s.	9(1)directed that in fixing such rates of wages the Board  &hallhave  regard to the cost of living, the prevalent  rates  ofwages for comparable employments, the circumstances relatingto  the	 newspaper  industry in	 different  regions  of	 thecountry	 and to any other circumstances which to  the  Boardmay  seem relevant.  These criteria, it was contended,	wereonly relevant for fixing minimum rates of wages,' though theword  " minimum " which had been used in the Bill No. 13  of1955  as introduced in the Rajya Sabha was deleted when	 theAct actually came to be passed and it was further  contendedthat  the  capacity  of the Industry to	 pay  which  was  anessential circumstance to be taken into consideration in thefixation   of  wages  was  not	set  out  as  one   of	 thecircumstances to be taken into consideration by the Board infixing rates of wages.	It was also contended that the othercircumstances  which the Board was directed to	consider  inaddition  to those specifically enumerated in s.  9(1)	weresuch as to the Board may seem relevant thus relegating thesecircumstances  to the subjective determination of the  Boardwith  the  necessary  consequence that	no  Court  or  otherauthority could scrutinize the same objectively.We do not propose to enter into any elaborate discussion  onthe question whether it would be competent to us in arrivingat a proper construction of the expression " fixing rates ofwages  " to look into the Statement of Objects	and  Reasonsattached  to  the Bill No. 13 of 1955 as introduced  in	 theRajya  Sabha  or the circumstances under which	the  word  "minimum " came to be deleted from the provisions of the Billrelating  to rates of wages and the Wage Board and the	factof  such  deletion  when the Act came to be  passed  in	 itspresent141form.	There is a consensus of opinion that these  are	 notaids  to the construction of the terms of the Statute  whichhave  of  course  to be given their  plain  and	 grammaticalmeaning [See: Ashvini Kumar Ghosh & Anr. v. Arabinda Bose  &Anr.  (1)  and	Provat	Kumar  Kar  and	 others	 v.  WilliamTrevelyan'  Curtiez Parkar It is only when the terms of	 thestatute	 are ambiguous or vague that resort may be  had	 -tothem  for the purpose of arriving at the true  intention  ofthe legislalature.  No such reference is, however, necessaryin the case before us, even though perchance, the expression" fixing rates of wages " be considered ambiguous in so	 faras  it does not specify whether the " wages there are  meantto  be " living wages ", " fair wages or " minimum wages  ".We have already stated in the earlier part of this  judgmentthat  the  Act	was  passed with a  view  to  implement	 therecommendations of the Press Commission's Report and we havealready seen that the concept of minimum wage, as adopted bythe  Press Commission was not that of a bare subsistence  orminimum wage but what it termed a minimum wage was meant  toprovide	 for not merely the bare subsistence of living,	 butfor the efficiency of the worker, making provision also	 forsome   measure	of  education,	medical	  requirements	 andamenities.  If this was the concept of a minimum wage  whichthe  Legislature  set about to implement, that	minimum	 wascertainly higher than the bare subsistence or minimum  wage,and,  in  any event, required a consideration by  the  WagesBoard  of the capacity of the industry to pay,	even  thoughthe  Press Commission itself did not think it necessary,  todo  so, it having expressed the opinion that if a  newspaperindustry could not afford to pay to its employees a  minimumwage,  which  would enable them to live	 decently  and	withdignity, that newspaper had no right to exist.This  was the concept of a minimum wage which was sought  tobe  implemented by the legislature and for that purpose	 thecapacity   of	the  industry  to  pay	was   an   essentialcircumstance to be taken into consideration and the deletionof the word " minimum ", if at(1) [1953] S.C.R. I.(2) A.I.R. 1950 Cal. 116.142all,  had  the effect of widening the scope of	the  enquirybefore the Wage Board. if the word " minimum " had been usedin relation to the -rates of wages and the Wage Board in theimpugned Act, the wage Board in its deliberations would havebeen necessarily confined (to a consideration of that aspectalone.	 But, by the deletion of that wordfrom	the  contextthe  Wage Board was invested with a power to  determine	 thequestion of the fixation of rates of wages unfettered by anysuch  limitations and to fix the rates of wages in any	pro-per  manner having regard to the circumstances of the  case,whether	 the  resultant wages would be a  statutory  minimumwage  or  would approximate to a standard  of  wage,  thoughhaving	regard to the economic conditions of our country  atpresent	 they  could not find it within their power  to	 fixliving	wages  for the working	journalists.   The  criteriawhich  were specified in s. 9(1) of the Act  comprised	alsothe  prevalent rates  of wages for  comparable	employments.This  criterion had no relation whatever to  Minimum  wages.Reference  may be made in this connection to a	decision  ofthe  Industrial Court in the case of Nellimarla	 Jute  Mills(1),  where  it was held that the comparison with  rates  ofwaves in other concerns could be undertaken for	 determiningfair  wage  and	 the  upper  limit  of	wages  but  not	 fordetermining the minimum or floor level of wages which shoulddepend	on the minimum requirements of the  workers'  familyconsisting  of three consumption units.	 This criterion	 wasno  doubt  taken into consideration by the  members  of	 theCommittee on Fair Wages as also by the Press Commission	 andeven  though the Press Commission considered that to  be  anessential ingredient of the minimum wage as contemplated  byit, we are not inclined to stress that circumstance so	muchand come to the conclusion that what was contemplated in  s.9(1) was merely a minimum wage and no other.If, therefore, the criterion of the prevalent rates of wagesfor comparable employments can on a true construction of  s.9(1)be considered consistent only with the fixation of ratesof wages which are higher than(1)  [1053] 1 L.L.J. 666,			    143the  bare  subsistence	or  minimum  wage  whether  they  bestatutory minimum wage or fair wage or even living wage,  itcould not be urged that the criteria specified in s. 9(1) ofthe  Act were relevant only for fixation of  minimum  wages.The capacity of the industry to pay was therefore one of theessential  circumstances to be taken into  consideration  bythe  Wage Board whether it be for the fixation of  rates  ofwages  or  the scales of wages which, as  we  have  observedbefore, were included within the expression " rates of wages".  This was by no means an unimportant	 circumstance  whichcould be assigned a minor role.	 It was as important as	 thecost  of  living,  and	the prevalent  rates  of  wages	 forcomparable  employments and ought to have been	specificallymentioned  in s. 9(1).	The Legislature however, was  eitherinfluenced  in	not mentioning it as such by reason  of	 theview taken by the Press Commission in that behalf or thoughtthat  the  third criterion which was specified in  s.  9(1),viz.,  the circumstances relating to the newspaper  industryin different regions of the country was capable of includingthe  same.  Even here, there is considerable  difficulty  inreconciling  oneself  to  this mode  of	 construction.	 Thecapacity  of the industry to pay, can only be considered  onan  industry -cum- region basis and this  circumstance	fromthat  point  of view would be capable of being	included  inthis  criterion,  viz., the circumstances  relating  to	 thenewspaper  industry  in different regions  of  the  country.Even  if it were thus capable of being included,  the  minorrole  assigned to it along with literacy of the	 population,the  popularity	 of  the newspapers,  predilections  of	 thepopulation in the matter of language and other circumstancesof  the like nature prevailing in the different	 regions  ofthe  country  would make it difficult to imagine  that	thiscircumstance  of  the capacity of the industry	to  pay	 wasreally in the mind of the Legislature, particularly when  itis remembered that the Press Commission attached no signifi-cance  to the same.  From that point of view, the  criticismof the petitioners would appear to be justified viz., :-thatit was not made incumbent on the Board to consider the majorfactor of the capacity of the144industry  to pay as an essential circumstance in fixing	 therates  of wages.  It is, however, well-recognized  that	 theCourts	would  lean  towards  the  constitutionality  of  anenactment and if it is possible to read this circumstance ascomprised  within the category of circumstances relating  tothe newspaper industry in different regions of the  country,the  court should not strike down the provisions as  in	 anymanner	 whatever   unreasonable  and	violative   of	 thefundamental right of the petitioners.We are therefore of opinion that s. 9(1) did not eschew	 theconsideration  of  this essential  circumstance,  viz.,	 thecapacity of the industry to pay and it was not only open butincumbent  upon	 the Wage Board to consider  that  essentialcircumstance in order to arrive at the fixation of the ratesof wages of the working journalists.The  last criterion enumerated in s. 9(1) of the Act  was  "any other circumstance which to the Board may seem  relevant"  and	it  was	 urged that this  was  left  merely  to	 thesubjective  determination of the Board and the Board was  atliberty	 to  consider  the circumstances,  if  any,  fallingwithin	this category in its own absolute  discretion  whichcould  not be  Controlled by any higher authority.   If	 thematters were left to be objectively determined then it wouldcertainly be enquired into and the existence or otherwise ofsuch  circumstances would be properly scrutinized in  appro-priate	proceedings.   The manner in  which,  however,	thiscriterion  was	left to be determined by the  Board  on	 itssubjective  satisfaction was calculated to enable the  Boardto exercise arbitrary powers in regard to the same and	thatwas  quite  unreasonable  in itself.   The  case  of  ThakurRaghubir  Singh	 v. Court of Wards, Ajmer &  Ors.  (1),	 waspointed	 out as an illustration of such an arbitrary  -powerhaving been vested in the Court of Wards which could in	 itsown  discretion and on its subjective  determination  assumethe  superintendence of the property of a landed  proprietorwho  habitually	 infringed the rights of his  tenants.	 Theprovision was there struck down because such subjective(1)[1953] S. C. R. 1049,1052.145determination  which resulted in the superintendence of	 theproperty   of  a  citizen  being  assumed  could,   not	  bescrutinized and the propriety thereof investigated by higherauthorities.This  argument,	 however,  does	 not  help  the	 petitionersbecause	 this criterion is on a par with or ejusdem  generiswith  the  other  criteria  which  have	 been	specificallyenumerated  in the earlier part of the section.	  The  majorand important criteria have been specifically enumerated andif  would be impossible for the Legislature exhaustively  toenumerate the other circumstances which would be relevant tobe  considered by the Board in arriving at the	fixation  ofthe rates of wages.  In the course of the enquiry the  Boardmight  come across other relevant circumstances which  wouldweigh with it in the determination of the rates of wages andit  would  not be possible for the Legislature to  think  ofthem or to enumerate the same as relevant considerations andit  was therefore, and rightly in our opinion, left  to	 theBoard to determine the relevancy of those circumstances	 andtake  them  into  consideration while fixing  the  rates  ofwages.	 If the principles which should guide the  Board  infixing	the  rates of wages were laid down  with  sufficientclarity	 and particularity and the criteria so far  as	theywere of major importance were specifically enumerated  therewas  nothing wrong in leaving other relevant  considerationsarising	 in  the  course of the enquiry	 to  the  subjectivesatisfaction  of  the  Board.  The  Board  was,	 after	all,constituted of equal numbers of representatives of employersand the employees and they were best calculated to take intoaccount	 all  the relevant circumstances  apart	 from  thosewhich were, specifically enumerated in the section.It was, however, contended that the procedure to be followedby the Board for fixing the rates of wages was not laid downand  it	 was  open  to the Board  to  follow  any  arbitraryprocedure violating the principle of audi alteram partem andas  such this also was unreasonable.  Section 20 (2) (d)  ofthe  impugned  Act gave power to the Central  Government  tomake rules19146inter alia in regard to the procedure to be followed by	 theBoard  in  fixing  rates of wages and s.  11  provided	thatsubject	 to  any rules which might be prescribed  the  Boardmay, for the purpose of fixing rates of wages, exercise	 thesame  powers and follow the same procedure as an  IndustrialTribunal  constituted  under the  Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947,  exercises or follows for the purpose of	adjudicatingan industrial dispute referred to it.  This was, however, anenabling provision which vested in the Board the  discretionwhether	 to  exercise the same powers and  follow  the	sameprocedure  as  an  Industrial Tribunal.	 The  Board  was  atliberty not to do so and follow its own procedure which	 maybe  arbitrary or violative of the principle of audi  alterampartem.It has to be remembered, however, that in the United Kingdomthe  Wage Councils and the Central Co-ordinating  Committeesunder  the  Wages Councils Act, 1945, and  the	AgriculturalWages  Board under the Agricultural Wages  Regulations	Act,1924,  also  are empowered to regulate their  proceeding  insuch manner as they think fit.	The Wage Boards in Australiahave  also no formal procedure prescribed for  them,  thoughthe  Wage  Boards which are established	 under	the  amendedBombay	Industrial  Relations  Act, 1946,  are	enjoined  tofollow the same procedure as an industrial court in  respectof industrial proceedings before it. It would not  thereforebe  legitimate to hold that the procedure to be followed  bythe wage board for fixing rates of wages must necessarily beprescribed  by the statute constituting the same.  It is  nodoubt  contemplated in each of these statutes that rules  ofprocedure may be prescribed; but even though they, may be soprescribed, it is left to the discretion of the wage  boardsto  regulate  their procedure in such manner as	 they  thinkfit, subject of course to the rules thus prescribed.  A widediscretion  is thus left with the wage boards  to  prescribetheir  own  rules of procedure, but it	does  not  thereforefollow that they are entitled to follow any arbitrary  rulesof  procedure.	 The  wage  boards  are	 responsible  bodiesentrusted  with	 the task of gathering	data  and  materialsrelevant for the147determination  of  the issues arising before them  and	eventhough	they are not judicial tribunals	 but  administrativeagencies  they	would elicit all  relevant  information	 andinvite answers to the questionnaire or representations	fromthe  parties  concerned, hear evidence and arrive  at  theirdetermination after conforming to the principles of  naturaljustice.   Even	 though	 they  may  perform,  quasi-judicialfunctions,  the exercise of arbitrary powers by	 them  wouldnot be countenanced by, any court or higher authority.In  the present case, however, we have in, the forefront  ofthe  impugned Act a provision as to the application  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act 1947, to working  journalists.	  Nodoubt certain specific provisions as to payment of gratuity,hours  of work and leave are specifically enacted, but	whenwe  come  to the fixation of rates of wages we find  that  awage  board  has  been constituted  for	 the  purpose.	 Theprinciples to be followed by the Wage Board for fixing ratesof wages are also laid down and the decision of the Board isto  be published in the same manner as awards of  industrialcourts,under  the Industrial Disputes Act.  Then follows  s.11 which talks of the powers and procedure of the Board	 andthere  also, subject to any rules of procedure which may  beprescribed by the Central Government, the Board is empoweredto exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure asan  Industrial	Tribunal constituted  under  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act.	 If regard be had to this  provision  it  isabundantly  clear that the intention of the Legislature	 wasto  assimilate	the Wage Board thus constituted as  much  aspossible  to an Industrial Tribunal constituted:  under	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947, and it was contemplated	thatthe Board may for fixing rates. of wages, exercise the	samepowers	and follow the same procedure.	The decision of	 theBoard  was  to be binding on all the employers,	 though	 theworking journalists were at liberty to further agitate	the,question under the Industrial Disputes Act if they were	 notsatisfied  with the deciSion of the Wage Board and wanted  afurther	 increase in their rates of wages, thus	 determined.All these148circumstances  point to the conclusion that even though	 theBoard  was not bound to exercise the same powers and  followthe  same  procedure as an industrial  tribunal	 constitutedunder  the  Industrial Disputes Act, the Board was,  in	 anyevent,	not  entitled  to  'adopt  any	arbitrary  procedureviolating the principles of natural justice.If  on	the  construction of the relevant  sections  of	 thestatute	 the functions which the Wage Board  was  performingwould be tantamount to laying down a law or rule of  conductfor  the future so that all the employers and the  employeesin the' industry not only those who were participating in itin the present but also those who would enter therein in thefuture	would be bound by it, the dictum of  Justice  Holmeswould  apply and the functions performed by the	 wage  boardcould be characterized as legislative in character.   Where,however,  as  in the present case, the constitution  of	 theWage   Board  is  considered  in  the  background   of	 theapplication of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Actto  the	 working  journalists and  the	provisions  for	 theexercise of the same powers and following the same procedureas  an industrial tribunal constituted under the  IndustrialDisputes  Act, it would be possible to argue that  the	WageBoard  was  not	 exercising legislative	 functions  but	 wasexercising functions which were quasi-judicial in character.In  this  connection,  it  was also  pointed  out  that	 theLegislature  itself while enacting the impugned Act did	 notconsider  these functions as legislative at all.  The  Rulesof  Procedure  and Conduct of Business in Lok  Sabha  (1957)provide	 in Rule No. 70 for a Bill involving  proposals	 forthe  delegation	 of  legislative  power	 shall	further	  beaccompanied  by a memorandum explaining such  proposals	 anddrawing	 attention to their scope and stating  also  whetherthey are of normal or exceptional character.  There is	alsoa committee on subordinate legislation which is	 establishedfor  scrutinizing  and reporting to the House;	whether	 thepowers to make regulations, rules, sub-rules, by-laws, etc.,conferred by the Constitution or delegated by Parliament arebeing properly exercised within 'such149delegation  (vide Rule 317 ibid).  The constitution  by	 theLegislature of the Wages Board in the matter of the fixationof rates of wages was not considered as a piece of delegatedlegislation   in   the	 memorandum   regarding	  -delegatedlegislation  appended  to  the draft Bill No.  13,  of	1955introduced in the Rajya Sabha on September 28, 1955, and theonly reference that was made there was to Cl. 19 of the Billwhich  empowered  the Central Government to  make  rules  inrespect	 of  certain matters specified therein	and  it	 wasstated	that  these  were purely  procedural  matters  of  aroutine	 character  and related inter  alia  to	 prescribinghours  of work, payment of gratuity, holidays, earned  leaveor other kinds of leave and the procedure to be followed  bythe  Minimum  Wager, Board in fixing minimum wages  and	 themanner	in which its decisions may be published.  Clause  19(3)  of the Bill further provided that all rules made  underthis  section  shall as soon as practicable after  they	 aremade,  be  laid	 before both Houses  of	 Parliament.   Theseclauses were ultimately passed as s. 20 of the impugned	 Actbut  they  were	 the only  piece  of  delegated	 legislationcontemplated  by  the Legislature and were  covered  by	 thememorandum  regarding  the same which was  appended  to	 theBill.	The  decision of the Wage Board was not to  be	laidbefore	both the Houses of Parliament which would have	beenthe  case if the fixation of rates of wages was a  piece  ofdelegated  legislation.	 It was only to be published by	 theCentral	 Government after it/ was communicated to it by	 theWage Board in such manner as the Central Government  thoughtfit,  a	 provision  which was akin  to	the  publication  ofaward,,;  of  the Industrial Tribunals	by  the	 appropriateGovernment  under the provisions of the Industrial  DisputesAct,  1947.   This  circumstance also  was  pointed  out  asindicative  of	the  intention of  the	Legislature  not  toconstitute  the	 Wage  Board  a	 sub-legislative  authority.While  recognizing  the force of these	contentions  we	 mayobserve	 that  it  is  not necessary  for  our	purposes  todetermine   the	 nature	 and  character	 of  the   functionsperformed  by the Wage Board here.  It is sufficient to	 saythat the Wage Board was not empowered or150authorised  to adopt any arbitrary,procedure and  flout	 theprinciples of, natural justice.It  was	 next  contended that the  restrictions	 imposed  onnewspaper establishments under the terms of the impugned Actwere unreasonable in so far as they would have the effect ofdestroying  the	 business  of  the  petitioners	 and   wouldtherefore exceed the bounds of permissible legislation underArt.  19(6).   It  was	urged  that  the  right	 to   imposereasonable  restrictions on the petitioners' right to  carryon  business did not empower the legislature to destroy	 thebusiness  itself and reliance was placed in support of	thisproposition  on	 Stone v. Farmers Loan and  Trust  Co.	(1),where it was observed:-"  From	 what has thus been said it is not to,	be  inferredthat  this  power  of limitation  or  regulation  is  itselfwithout	 limit.	  This power to regulate is not a  power  todestroy,   and	 limitation  is	 not  the,   equivalent	  ofconfiscation."Similar observations of the Judicial Committee of the  PrivyCouncil in-the Municipal Corporation of the City of  Torontov.  Virgo  (2)	and  the Attorney  General  for	 Ontario  v.Attorney General for the Dominion (3) were also relied	uponand  particularly the following observations in	 the  formercase:-" But their Lordships think there is a marked distinction tobe  drawn between the prohibition or prevention of  a  tradeand the regulation or governance of it and indeed a power toregulate and govern seem,,; to imply the continued existenceof that which is sought to be, regulated or governed."These  observations were considered by this Court in  SaghirAhmed v. State of U. P. & Ors. (4) and after considering thevarious	 cases	which Were cited by both sides,	 this  Courtobserved:"  Be that as it may,, although in our opinion the     normaluse of the word " restrictionseems to be in	 the  senseof I., limitation" and notextraction ", we    would   onthis occasion prefer not toexpress any final(1)  [1885] 116 U. S. 307, 331; 29 L. Ed. 636, 644.(2)  [1896] A.C. 88, 93- (J-C)(4)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707,724.(3) [1896] A.C. 348, 363.151opinion on this matter" and the Court ultimately wound up bysaving that ,whether the restrictions are reasonable or	 notwould  depend to a large extent on the nature of  the  tradeand the conditions prevalent in it."Even  if  the  provisions  of the  impugned  Act  would	 notnecessarily  have the effect of destroying the	business  ofthe petitioners but of crippling it and making it impossiblefor  the  petitioners  to continue  the	 same  except  underonerous conditions, they would have the effect of curtailingtheir circulation and drive them to seek government aid	 andthereby	 impose	 an unreasonable burden on  their  right  tocarry  on  business and would come within the  ban  of	Art.19(1) (g) read with Art. 13(2) of the Constitution.Several	 provisions of the impugned Act were referred to  inthis context.  Section 2(f) of the Act which defines workingjournalist " so as to include " proofreader was pointed	 outin  this  connection and it was urged that even	 though	 thePress Commission Report recommended the exclusion of certainclass  of  proof-readers  from	the  definition	 of  workingjournalists the Legislature went a step further and includedall  proof-readers within that definition  thereby  imposingupon the newspaper establishments an unreasonable burden farin excess of what they were expected to bear.  The provisionas to the notice in relation to the retrenchment of  workingjournalist   was  also	extended  beyond   the	 limitationsspecified  in s. 25F of the Industrial Disputes	 Act,  1947,and was extended to six months in the case of an Editor	 andthree  months in the case of any other	working	 journalist.The  provision	with regard to retrenchment  was  also	madeapplicable  retrospectively  to all  cases  of	retrenchmentwhich had occurred between July 14, 1954, and March 12, 1955;  so also the payment of gratuity was ordered not  only  inthe  cases  usually provided for but also in cases  where  aworking	 journalist who had been in continuous	service	 fornot less than three years voluntarily resigned from  servicefrom   a  newspaper  establishment.   The  hours   of	workprescribed  were  144 hours only during any period  of	fourconsecutive weeks and they were152far less in number than the hours of work recommended by thePress Commission Report.  The fixation of rates of wages wasentrusted to the Wage Board which could fix any wages  whichit  thought  proper  irrespective of  the  capacity  of	 theindustry to pay and might be such as the industry could	 notbear.	These  provisions taken each one by itself  may	 nothave  the  effect of destroying	 the  petitioners'  businessaltogether or even crippling it in the manner indicated	 buttaken  cumulatively along with the provisions  contained  inss.  14	 and  15  of the  impugned  Act	 which	applied	 theprovisions  of the Industrial Employment  (Standing  Orders)Act, 1946, and, the Employees' Provident funds Act, 1952, tonewspaper  establishments would certainly bring	 about	thatresult	and  would  therefore  constitute  an	unreasonablerestriction on the, petitioners' right to carry on business.We shall deal with these contentions one by one.There  is  no  doubt that " proof-readers  "  were  not	 allrecommended  by the Press Commission to be included  in	 thedefinition  of	working	 journalists,  but  it	has  to	  beremembered  that  proof-readers	 occupy	 a  very   importantposition   in	the   editorial	  staff	  of   a   newspaperestablishment.	B. Sen Gupta in his " Journalism as a Career"  (1955)  talks  of the position  of  the  proof-reader  asfollows:"  The	proof-reader  is  another  important  link  in	 theproduction  of a newspaper.  On him depends, not to a  smallextent,	 the  reputation  of a paper.  He  has	to  be	verycareful in correcting mistakes and pointing out any error offact or grammar that has crept into any news item or articlethrough	 oversight or hurry on the part of  the	 sub-editor.He  has	 not only to correct mistakes but also to  see	thatcorrections  are  carried out ", and the Kemsley  Manual  ofJournalism has the following passage at p. 337:"  Having  thus	 seen the proof-reader	in  action,  lot  usconsider  in  detail  what  proof-reading  denotes.   It  isprimarily  the	art  and practice  of  finding	mistakes  inprinted	 matter	 before publication and	 of  indicating	 theneeded corrections.  It includes the detection of variationsbetween the type and the copy from which it was153set,  misstatements  of facts, figures or-dates,  errors  ingrammar,  inaccuracies	in quotations,	and  other  defects.Often,	too, it happens that, though the  proof-reader	doesnot feel justified in himself making a correction, he  takesother  action.	If he thinks there is a mistake but  is	 notsure,  he must query the -proof so that the editorial  staffmay  decide.   He  may spot a libel, or think  he  has.	  Ineither case it is important that the matter shall be queriedand passed back to editorial authority."  It is obvious from this that proof-readers should be	 menof exceptional knowledge and sound-judgment.  They should beconversant  with  current affairs, familiar  with  names  ofpublic men and quite sure how they should be spelled.	Somespecialize  in	different  branches  of	 sport,	 others	  intheatre, the cinema, music and so on.  This saves much	timein  looking  up books of reference, though, of	course,	 thebooks are there."As  a matter of fact, the Wage Board in the Schedule to	 itsdecision defines "proof reader" as " a person who checks  upprinted	 matter	 or  " Proof " with edited  copy  to  ensurestrict	conformity of the former with the  latter.   Factualdiscrepancies,	slips  of spelling, grammar and	 syntax	 mayalso be discovered by him and either corrected or get themcorrected."If  this  is the important role played by  the	proofreadersthen  no  wonder  that	the  Legislature  in  spite  of	 therecommendations	 of the Press Commission included them	alsoin  the	 definition of working journalist.   No	 doubt	theywould be entitled to higher wages by reason of the  fixationof rates of wages by the Wage Board but that would by itselfbe  no	ground for holding the	inclusion  of  proof-readerswithin the definition of working journalist an	unreasonableburden on newspaper establishments.The provisions in regard to notice cannot be said to be	 perse  unreasonable.   Apart from the  recommendations  of	 thePress Commission in that behalf, Halsbury's Laws of England,Vol. 22, 2nd Edn., p. 150,20154para.  249, foot note (e), contains the following  statementin  regard  to	the periods of reasonable  notice  to  whichpersons of various employments have been found entitled:-Newspaper  editor, from six months (Fox-Bourne v.  Vernon  &Co. Ltd., (1894) 10 T. L. R. 647); to twelve months  (Grundyv. Sun Printing and Publishing Association, (1916) 33 T.  L.R. 77, C. A.).Sub-editor of a newspaper, six months (Chamberlain v.  Bennett,(1892) 8 T. L. R. 234).Foreign correspondent to The Times, six months period  (Lowev. Walter, (1892) 8 T. L. R. 358).The  Press  Commission also recommended that the  period  ofnotice	for the termination of services should be  based  onthe  length  of the service rendered and the nature  of	 theappointment.   There  could be no hard and fast rule  as  towhat  the notice period should be.  The practice  upheld  bylaw  or	 by  collective bargaining varies  from	 country  tocountry.   In  England	the  practice  established  by	somejudicial  decisions  is	 that the editor is  entitled  to  ayear's notice and an assistant editor to six months' notice.After examining the provisions in regard to notice which arein vogue in England, the Commission also noticed a  decisionin  Bombay  (Suit No. 735 of 1951 in the City  Civil  Court)where the judge concerned held that in the circumstances  ofthe  particular case the plaintiff, an assistant editor	 wasentitled  to  a	 notice of four months	although  in  normaltimes,	he said, the rule adopted in England of	 six  monthsshould	be the correct rule to adopt in India and  a  longerperiod	of notice was suggested for editors because  it	 wascomparatively	much  more  difficult  to   secure   anotherassignment  for a journalist of that seniority and  standingin the profession.The  period  of six months, in the case of  an	editor,	 andthree  months, in the case of any other working	 journalistsprescribed  under s. 3(2) of the impugned Act was  thereforenot open to any serious objection.The  retrospective operation of this provision in regard  tothe  period between July 14, 1954, and March 12,  1955,	 wasdesigned  to  meet the few cases of those employees  in	 theeditorial staff of the newspaper155establishments	who had been retrenched by  the	 managementsanticipating  the implementation of the	 recommendations  ofthe  Press Commission.	There was nothing untoward  in	thatprovision also.When  we  come	however to the provision in  regard  to	 thepayment	 of gratuity to working journalists who	 voluntarilyresigned from service from newspaper establishments, we findthat  this was a provision which was not at all	 reasonable.A  gratuity  is	 a scheme of  retirement,  benefit  and	 theconditions for its being awarded have been thus laid down inthe Labour Court decisions in this country.In  the	 case  of Ahmedabad  Municipal	Corporation  it	 wasobserved at p. 158 :-" The fundamental principle in allowing gratuity is that  itis  a retirement benefit for long services, a provision	 forold age and the trend of the recent authorities as borne outfrom  various  awards  as  well as  the	 decisions  of	thisTribunal  is in favour of double benefit We are,  therefore,of  the	 considered opinion that Provident Fund	 provides  acertain	 measure  of  relief  only and	a  portion  of	thatconsists  of  the employees' wages, that he  or	 his  familywould  ultimately  receive, and that this provision  in	 thepresent day conditions is wholly insufficient relief and tworetirement benefits when the finances of the concern  permitought to be allowed." (See also Nundydroog Mines Ltd. (2).These  were  cases  however of gratuity	 to  be	 allowed  toemployees  on their retirement.	 The Labour Court  decisionshave however awarded gratuity benefits on the resignation ofan employee also.  In the case of Cipla Ltd. (3), the  Courttook  into  consideration the capacity of  the	concern	 andother  factors therein referred to and directed gratuity  onfull  scale  which included (2) on voluntary  retirement  orresignation  of	 an  employee  after  15  years	  continuousservice.Similar considerations were imported in the case of(1)  (1955) L.A.C. 55, 58.(2)  (1956) L.A.C. 265, 267.(3)  [1955] 2 L.L.J. 355, 358.156the  Indian  Oxygen  &	Acetylene Co.,	Ltd.  where  it	 wasobserved:"  It  is now well-settled by a series of decisions  of	 theAppellate  Tribunal that where an employer company  has	 thefinancial  capacity  the workmen would be  entitled  to	 thebenefit	 of  gratuity  in addition to the  benefits  of	 theProvident  Fund.  In considering the financial	capacity  ofthe  concern  what has to be seen is the  general  financialstability  of  the concern.  The factors  to  be  consideredbefore	granting a scheme of gratuity are the broad  aspectsof  the	 financial  condition of  the  concern,	 its  profitearning	 capacity,  the	 profit	 earned	 in  the  past,	 itsreserves  and the possibility of replenishing the  reserves,the claim of capital put having regard to the risk involved,in short the financial stability of the concern.There  also the court awarded gratuity under ground  No.  2,viz.,  on retirement or resignation of an employee after  15years of continuous service and 15 months' salary or wage.It  will be noticed from the above that even in those  caseswhere  gratuity	 was awarded on the  employee's	 resignationfrom service, it was granted only after the completion of 15years  continuous service and not merely on a minimum  of  3years service as in the present case. Gratuity	 being	 areward for good,efficient andfaithful service rendered	fora considerable period	 (Vide Indian Railway  EstablishmentCode, Vol.  1 at p. 614-Ch.  XV, para. 1503), there would beno  justification  for awarding the same  when	an  employeevoluntarily  resigns and brings about a termination  of	 hisservice, except in exceptional circumstances.One such exception is the operation of what is termed "	 Theconscience  clause ". In Fernand Terrou and  Lucion  Solal'sLegislation for Press, Film and Radio in the World to-day (aseries of studies published by UNESCO in 1951) the followingpassage	 occurs	 in  relation  to  "  Journalists'   WorkingConditions and their Moral Rights ", at p. 404:(1)  [1956] 1 L.L.J- 435.157Among	the  benefits  which  the  status  of	professionaljournalist may confer (whether it stems from the law or froman agreement) is one of particular importance, since it goesto the very core of the profession.  It concerns freedom  ofinformation.   It is intended to safeguard the	journalist'sindependence,  his freedom of thought and his moral  rights.It  constitutes	 what  has  been  called  in  France  the  "conscience clause ". The essence of this clause is that whena  journalist's	 integrity is seriously threatened,  he	 maybreak the contract binding him to the newspaper concern, andat  the	 same  time receive all the  indemnities  which	 arenormally  payable only if it is the employer who breaks	 thecontract.   In France, accordingly, under the law  of  1935,the  indemnity for dismissal which, as we have seen, may  bequite  substantial,  is payable even when  the	contract  isbroken	by  a professional journalist, in  cases  where	 hisaction is inspired by " a marked change in the character  orpolicy	of  the	 newspaper or  periodical,  if	such  changecreates	 for the person employed a situation prejudicial  tohis  honour, his reputation, or in a general way  his  moralinterests."  This	 moral right of a journalist is	 comparable  to	 themoral  right of an author or artist, which the law  of	1935was the first to recognize, has since been acknowledged in anumber	of  countries.	 It was	 stated	 in  the  collectivecontract of January 31, 1938, in Poland in this form: "	 Thefollowing  are good and sufficient reasons for a  journalistto cancel hip, contract without warning; (a) the exertion ofpressure  by an employer upon a journalist to induce him  toperform	 an immoral action; (b) a fundamental change in	 thepolitical  outlook  of	the journal,  proclaimed  by  publicdeclaration or otherwise made manifest, if the	journalist'semployment  would  thereafter be contrary to  his  politicalopinions or the dictates of his conscience."A  similar  clause  is to be found in  Switzerland,  in	 thecollective  agreement signed on April 1, 1948,	between	 theGeneva	Press Association and the Geneva Union of  NewspaperPublishers:If a marked change takes place in the character158or  fundamental policy of the newspaper, if the	 concern  nolonger has the same moral, political or religious  characterthat  it  had at the moment when an editorial  employee	 wasengaged	 and  if  this change is such as  to  prejudice	 hishonour,	 his  reputation  or, in a general  way,  his  moralinterests,  he	may demand his instant	release.   In  thesecircumstances	  he	shall	 be    entitled	   to	  anindemnity............ This indemnity is payable in the	samemanner as was the salary."The  other  exception  is where the  employee  has  been  incontinuous service of the employer for a period of more than15 years.Where  however an employee voluntarily resigns from  serviceof  the employer after a period of only three  years,  therewill  be  no  justification  whatever  for  awarding  him  agratuity  and any such provision of the type which has	beenmade  in  s.  5(1)(a)(iii) of the  Act	would  certainly  beunreasonable.  We hold therefore that this provision imposesan  unreasonable  restriction on the petitioners'  right  tocarry  on  business  and  is liable to	be  struck  down  asunconstitutional.The provision in regard to the hours of work also cannot  beconsidered  unreasonable  having regard to  the	 nature	 andquality of the work to be done by working journalists.That leaves the considerations of fixation of rates of wagesby  the Wage Board.  As we have already observed,  the	WageBoard is constituted of equal numbers of representatives  ofthe  newspaper	establishments and the	working	 journalistswith an independent chairman at its head and principles	 forthe guidance of the Wage Board in the fixation of such ratesof wages directing the Wage Board to take into considerationamongst other circumstances the capacity of the industry  topay  have  also been laid down and it is impossible  to	 saythat  the  provisions  in  that behalf	are  in	 any  mannerunreasonable.	It  may be. that the decision  of  the	WageBoard  may  be arrived at ignoring some of  these  essentialcriteria which have been laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act  orthat  the  procedure  followed	by the	Wage  Board  may  becontrary  to  the principles of natural justice.   But	thatwould159affect	the  validity  of the decision itself  and  not	 theconstitution of the Wage Board which as we have seen  cannotbe objected to on this ground.The  further  provision	 contained in s. 17 of	the  Act  inregard	to  the	 recovery  of money  due  from	an  employerempowering  the	 State	Government  or	any  such  authorityappointed  in  that behalf to issue a certificate  for	thatamount	to the collector in the same manner as an arrear  ofland  revenue was also impeached by the petitioners on	thisground.	  That provision, however, relates only to the	modeof  recovery  and  not to the imposition  of  any  financialburden	as such on the employer.  We shall have occasion  todeal  with  this provision in connection  with	the  allegedinfringement   of  the	fundamental  right  under  Art.	  14hereafter.   We	 do not subscribe to the view  that  such  aprovision infringes the fundamental right of the petitionersto carry on business under Art. 19(1)(g).This  attack of the petitioners on the constitutionality  ofthe impugned Act under Art. 19(1)(g), viz., that it violatesthe  petitioners'  fundamental right to carry  on  business,therefore, fails except in regard to s. 5(1)(a)(iii) thereofwhich	being  clearly	severable  from	 the  rest  of	 theprovisions,  can be struck down as unconstitutional  withoutinvalidating the other parts of the impugned Act.Re.   Article 14.The question as formulated is that the impugned Act selectedthe  working  journalists for favoured treatment  by  givingthem  a statutory guarantee of gratuity, hours of  work	 andleave	which  other  persons  in  similar   or	  comparableemployment had not got and in providing for the fixation  oftheir  salaries	 without  following  the  normal   procedureenvisaged  in  the  Industrial	Disputes  Act,	1947.	 Thefollowing propositions are advanced:-1.   In	 selecting  the Press industry	employers  from	 allindustrial employers governed by the ordinary law regulatingindustrial  relations  under the  Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947, and Act I of 1955, the impugned Act subjects the Pressindustry employers to discriminatory treatment.1602.   Such discrimination lies in(a)  singling  out  newspaper  employees  for	differentialtreatment;(b)saddling them with a new burden in regard to a section oftheir workers in matters of gratuities, compensation,  hoursof work and wages;(c)devising a machinery in the form of a Pay Commission	 forfixing the wages of working journalists;(d)not prescribing the major criterion of capacity to pay tobe taken into consideration;(e)allowing  the  Board	 in fixing the wages  to  adopt	 anyarbitrary  procedure  even violating the principle  of	audialteram partem;(f)permitting  the  Board  the	discretion  to	operate	 theprocedure of the Industrial Disputes Act for some newspapersand any arbitrary procedure for others;(g)  making  the decision binding only on  the	employersandnot on the employees, and (h) providing for the recovery  ofmoney due from the employers in the same manner as an arrearof land revenue.3.The	classification	made  by  the  impugned	 Act   isarbitrary  and	unreasonable, in so far as  it	removes	 thenewspaper  employers vis-a-vis working journalists from	 thegeneral operation of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947,	 andAct I of 1955.The  principle underlying the enactment of Art. 14 has	beenthe subject-matter of various decisions of this Court and itis  only necessary to set out the summary thereof  given  byDas  J. (as be then was) in Budhan Choudhry & Others v.	 TheState  of Bihar (I).-" The provisions of article 14 of the Constitution have comeup  for discussion before this Court in a number  of  cases,namely,	 Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. The Union of India	(2),The State of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara (3), The State of	WestBengal v. Anwar Ali(1)[1955] I S.C.R. 1045, 1048.(2)  [1950] S.C.R. 869.(3)  [1951] S.C.R. 682.161Sarkar	(1), Kathi Raning Rawat v. The State  of  Saurashtra(2),  Lachmandas Kewalram Ahuja v. The State of	 Bombay (3),Quasim	Razvi  v.  The State of Hyderabad  (1),	 and  HabeebMohamad	 v. The State of Hyderabad (5).	 It  is,  therefore,not necessary to enter upon any lengthy discussion as to themeaning,  scope and effect of the' article in question.	  Itis now well established that while article 14 forbids  classlegislation,  it does not forbid  reasonable  classificationfor the purposes of legislation.  In order, however, to passthe  test of permissible classification two conditions	mustbe  fulfilled, namely, (i) that the classification  must  befounded	 on an intelligible differentia which  distinguishespersons or things that are grouped together from others leftout  of	 the  group and (ii) that differentia  must  have  arational relation to the object sought to be achieved by thestatute	 in question.  The classification may be founded  ondifferent  bases;  namely,  geographical,  or  according  toobjects	 or occupations or the like.  What is  necessary  isthat   there   must  be	 a  nexus  between  the	  basis	  ofclassification	 and   the   object   of   the	 Act   underconsideration.	It is also well-established by the decisionsof  this Court that article 14 condemns	 discrimination	 notonly by a substantive law but also by a law of procedure."It  is in the light of these observations that we shall	 nowproceed	 to consider whether the impugned Act  violates	 thefundamental  right of the petitioners guaranteed under	Art.14 of the Constitution.We have already set out what the Press Commission had to sayin regard to the position of the working journalists in	 ourcountry.   A  further passage from the Report  may  also  bequoted in this context:"  It  is essential to realise in this connection  that	 thework  of  a  journalist demands a  high	 degree	 of  generaleducation and some kind of specialised training.  Newspapersare  a vital instrument for the education of the masses	 andit is their business to protect the rights of the people, toreflect and guide(1) [1952] S.C.R. 284.		(2) (1952) S.C.R. 435.(3) [1952] S.C.R. 710.(5)  [1953] S.C.R. 661. (4)  [1953]S.C.R. 581.21162public	opinion	 and  to criticize the	wrong  done  by	 anyindividual  or organization however high placed.  They	thusform  an  essential adjunct to	democracy.   The  professionmust,  therefore, be manned by men of high intellectual	 andmoral  qualities.  The journalists are	in a  sense creativeartists and the public rightly or, wrongly, expect from thema  general omniscience and a capacity to express opinion  onany  topic  that may arise, under the sun.  Apart  from	 thenature of their work the conditions under which that work isto   be	  performed,  are  peculiar  to	  this	 profession.Journalists  have to work at very high pressure and as	mostof  the papers come out in the morning, the journalists	 arerequired to work late in the night and round the clock.	 Theedition	 must go to press by a particular time and  all	 thenews that breaks before that hour has got to find its  placein   that  edition.   Journalism  thus	becomes	  a   highlyspecialized job and to handle it adequately a person  shouldbe well-read, have the ability to size up a situation and toarrive	quickly	 at  the correct conclusion,  and  have	 thecapacity  to  stand  the  stress  and  strain  of  the	workinvolved.   His	 work  cannot  be  measured,  as  in   otherindustries,  by the quantity of the output, for the  qualityof work is an essential element in measuring the capacity ofthe  journalists.   Moreover,  insecurity  of  tenure  is  apeculiar  feature  of this profession.	This is not  to	 saythat   no  insecurity  exists  in  other   professions	 butcircumstances  may  arise in connection with  profession  ofjournalism   which   may  lead	to  unemployment   in	thisprofession, which would not necessarily have that result  inother professions.  Their security depends to some extent onthe  whims  and caprices of the proprietors.  We  have	comeacross cages where a change in the ownership of the paper ora, change in the editorial policy of the paper	has-resultedin  a  considerable change in the editorial staff.   In	 thecase of other industries a change in the proprietorship doesnot  normally  entail  a change in the staff.	But  as	 theessential  purpose of a newspaper is not only to  give	newsbut  to educate &. d guide public opinion, a change  in	 theproprietorship	or in the editorial policy of the paper	 mayresult163and in some cases has resulted in a wholesale change of	 thestaff on the editorial side.  These circumstances, which arepeculiar to journalism must be borne in mind in framing	 anyscheme	 for  improvement  of  the  conditions	of   workingjournalists." (para. 512).These  were the considerations which weighed with the  PressCommission  in	recommending  the  working  journalists	 forspecial	 treatment as compared with the other  employees  ofnewspaper  establishments in the matter of  amelioration  oftheir conditions of serviceWe  may	 also  in this connection  refer  to  the  followingpassage	 from the Legislation for Press, Film and  Radio  inthe world to-day (a series of studies published by UNESCO in1951) (supra) at p. 403:-"  Under certain systems, special advantages more  extensivethan those enjoyed by ordinary employees are conferred	uponjournalists.   These  may be sanctioned by the	law  itself.For instance, certain Latin American countries have  enactedlegislation in favour of journalists which is in some  casesvery detailed and far-reaching and offers special  benefits,more particularly in the form of protection against the riskof  sickness  or disability, dismissal	or  retirement.	  InBrazil,	 professional journalists, who must be of  Brazilianbirth	and   nationality,  enjoy  very	  considerable	 taxexemptions."  In  France,	the  law of 29	March,	1935,  conferred  onjournalists  substantial advantages which at the  time	werefar  in	 advance of general social legislation.	  Thus,	 forexample,  this	law gives all professional  journalists	 theright to an annual holiday with pay.  One month's holiday isgranted to journalists who have been working for a newspaperor  periodical	for  at least one year, and  five  weeks  tojournalists whose contract has been in force for 10 years atleast.	  Should  a  contract  of  indefinite  duration	  beterminated, the journalist is entitled to one or two month'snotice and also to an indemnity for dismissal which may	 notbe  less than one month's salary per year or part of a	yearof service, at the most recent rate of pay.  However, if theperiod of service exceeds 15 years, the164amount	of  the indemnity is fixed, as we have seen,  by  anarbitral committee."The  working journalists are thus a group by themselves	 andcould  be classified as such apart from the other  employeesof newspaper establishments and if the Legislature  embarkedupon  a	 legislation for the purpose of	 ameliorating  theirconditions of service there was nothing discriminatory aboutit.   They  could  be  singled	out  thus  for	preferentialtreatment   against   the  other  employees   of   newspaperestablishments.	  A  classification of this type  could	 notcome  within  the ban of Art. 14.  The only thing  which  isprohibited under this article is that persons belonging to aparticular group or class should not be treated	 differentlyas  amongst themselves and no such charge could be  levelledagainst this piece of legislation.  If this group of workingjournalists was specially treated in this manner there is noscope for the objection that group had a special legislationenacted	 for  its benefit or that a  special  machinery	 wascreated,  for fixing the rates of its wages  different	fromthe   machinery	 employed  for	other  workmen	 under	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947.	The payment of	retrenchmentcompensation  and gratuities, the regulation of their  hoursof  work  and the fixation of the rates of  their  wages  ascompared  with	those  of other	 workmen  in  the  newspaperestablishments	could  also  be	 enacted  without  any	suchdisability and the machinery for fixing their rates of wagesby way of constituting a wage board for the purpose could besimilarly devised.  There was no industrial dispute as	suchwhich had arisen or was apprehended to arise as between	 theemployers and the working journalists in general, though  itcould  have  possibly arisen as between the employers  in  aparticular  newspaper  establishment  and  its	own  workingJournalists.  What was contemplated by the provisions of theimpugned  Act how. ever, was a general fixation of rates  ofwages  of  working journalists which  would  ameliorate	 theconditions  of their service and the constitution of a	wageboard  for this purpose was one of the established modes  ofachieving that object.	If, therefore, such a165machinery  was devised for their benefit, there was  nothingobjectionable  in  it  and there was  no  discrimination  asbetween	 the working journalists and the other employees  ofnewspaper  establishments in that behalf.  The	capacity  ofthe  industry  to  pay	was  certainly	to  be	taken	intoconsideration  by  the Wage Board, as we have  already	seenbefore, and the procedure of the Board also was	 assimilatedto  that  adopted  by  an  industrial  tribunal	 under	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1947, or was, in any event, to  besuch  as would not be against the principle of audi  alterampartem	or the principles of natural justice.  There was  nooccasion,  if  the  Wage Board chose to	 exercise  the	samepowers	and  follow  the same procedure	 as  the  IndustrialTribunal under the Industrial -Disputes Act, 1947, for it todiscriminate between one set of newspaper establishments andothers.	 If it in fact assumed unto itself the powers of theIndustrial  Tribunal  it  would	 be  bound  to	follow	 theprocedure  prescribed  under the  Industrial  Disputes	Act,1947,	and  if	 it  were  thus	 to  follow  the  same,	  nodiscrimination	could ever be made in the manner  suggested.The  decision  of the Wage Board was no doubt  made  bindingonly  on the employers and the working journalists  were  atliberty	 to agitate the question of increase in their  wagesby  raising an industrial dispute in regard  thereto.	Oncethe  rates of wages were fixed by the Wage Board,  it  wouldnormally  follow  'that they would govern  the	relationshipbetween	 the employers and the working journalists,  but  ifliberty was reserved to the working journalists for  furtherincrease  in  their  wages  under  the	provisions  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act there was nothing untoward in	thatprovision  and that did not by itself militate	against	 theposition  that what was done for the benefit of the  workingjournalists  was  a, measure for the amelioration  of  theirconditions of service as a group by themselves.	 There couldnot be any question of discrimination between the  employerson  the one hand and the working journalists on	 the  other.They  were two contesting parties ranged on  opposite  sidesand  the  fact that one of them was treated in	a  differentmanner from the other in the166matter	of the amelioration of the conditions of service  ofthe weaker party would not necessarily vitiate the  decisionof  the	 Wage Board.  The weaker of the	 two  parties  couldcertainly be treated as a class by itself and the confermentof  special benefits in the matter of  trying to  amelioratetheir	conditions  of	service	 could	certainly   not	  bediscriminatory.The  provisions contained in s. 17 of the Act in  regard  tothe  recovery  of money due from the employers in  the	samemanner	 as  an	 arrear	 of  land  revenue  also   was	 notdiscriminatory.	  In the conflict between the employers	 andthe  employees it very often came about that  the  employersdid  not implement the measures which had been	enacted	 forthe  benefit  of the employees and the employees  were	thushard  put  to  realise and cash those  benefits.   Even	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947, contained a like provision ins.  33C thereof (vide the amendment incorporated therein  byAct 36 of 1956) which in its turn was a reproduction of	 theold  s.	 25-1 which had been inserted therein by Act  43  of1953.	It may be remembered that if the provisions  of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947, which was a general Act,	 hadbeen made applicable to the working journalists there  wouldhave  been no quarrel with the same.  Much less there  couldbe  any	 quarrel  with the introduction of s.  17  into	 theimpugned  Act when the aim and object of such provision	 wasto  provide  the  working journalists who were	a  group  bythemselves from amongst employees employed in the  newspaperestablishments with a remedy for the recovery of the  moniesdue  to	 them in the same manner as the	 workmen  under	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act,  1947.  We do  not  see  anythingdiscriminatory	in making such a provision for the  recoveryof   monies   due  by  the  employers	to   these   workingjournalist's.Similar	 is  the  position in regard  to  the  alleged	dis-crimination  between  -Press industry employers on  the	 onehand  and the other industrial employers on the other.	 Thelatter	would,	certainly be governed by  the  ordinary	 lawregulating   industrial	 relations  under   the	  IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947.  Employers qua the working	 journalistsagain would be a class by them-167selves	and if a law was enacted to operate as between	themin  the	 manner contemplated by the Act that  could  not  betreated	 as  discriminatory.   If measures have	 got  to  bedevised	 for the amelioration of the conditions	 of  workingjournalists    who   are   employed   in    the	   newspaperestablishments,	 the only way in which it could be done	 wasby  directing  this piece of legislation against  the  PressIndustry employers in general.	Even considering the Act  asa measure of social welfare legislation the State could onlymake  a	 beginning somewhere without  embarking	 on  similarlegislations in relation to all other industries and if thatwas  done in this case no charge could be  levelled  againstthe State that it was discriminating against one industry ascompared with the others.  The classification could well  befounded on geographical basis or be according to objects  oroccupations   or   the	 like.	 The   only   question	 forconsideration would be whether there was a nexus between thebasis of classification and the object of the Act sought  tobe  challenged.	  In  our opinion, both	 the  conditions  ofpermissible  classification  were fulfilled in	the  presentcase.	The  classification  was based	on  an	intelligibledifferentia which distinguished the working journalists fromother	employees  of  newspaper  establishments  and	thatdifferentia had a rational relation to the object sought  tobe  achieved,  viz., the amelioration of the  conditions  ofservice of working journalists.This  attack  on  the  constitutionality  of  the  Act	alsotherefore fails.Re.  Article 32:-In regard to the infringement of Art. 32, the only ground ofattack ha,-, been that the impugned Act did not provide	 forthe giving of the reasons for its decision by the Wage Boardand  thus  rendered the petitioners' right to  approach	 theSupreme	 Court	for enforcement of their  fundamental  rightnugatory.   It is contended that the right to apply  to	 theSupreme	 Court	for a writ of certiorari required  an  orderinfringing a fundamental right, that such a right was itselfa  fundamental right and any legislation which attempted  torestrict or defeat this right was an infraction of168Art. 32 and was as such void.  It is further contended	thata  writ	 of certiorari could effectively  be  directed	onlyagainst	 a  speaking  order,  i.  e.,  an  order  disclosingreasons,  and if a statute enabled the passing of  an  orderthat  need  give  no  reasons  such  statute  attempted	 ,tosterilize  the powers of this Court from  investigating	 thevalidity  of the order and was therefore violative  of	Art.32.Learned	 Counsel  for  the petitioners	has  relied  upon  adecision  of  the  English Court in  Rex  v.  NorthumberlandCompensation  Appeal  Tribunal,	 Ex parte  Shaw	 where	LordGoddard C. J. observed at p. 718:-"  Similarly anything that is stated in the order  which  aninferior  court has made and which has been brought up	intothis court can be examined by the court, if it be a speakingorder,	that is to say, an order which sets out the  groundsof  the	 decision.  If the order is merely  a  statement  ofconviction  that there shall be a fine of 40s., or an  orderof  removal or quashing a poor rate, there is an end of	 it,this  court cannot examine further.  If the  inferior  courttells  this court why it had done what it has and  makes  itpart of its order, this court can examine it."This  decision was affirmed by the Court of Appeal (and	 thedecision  of  the  Court of Appeal is  reported	 in  Rex  v.Northumberland	Compensation Appeal Tribunal, Ex parte	Shaw(2)  and  while	 doing so Denning L. J.	 (as  he  then	was)discussed at p. 352, what was it that constituted the record:-"  What, then, is the record?...... Following these cases  Ithink  the record must contain at least the  document  whichinitiates  the	proceedings; the pleadings if any;  and	 theadjudication; but not the evidence, nor the reasons,  unlessthe  tribunal chooses to incorporate them.  If the  tribunaldoes state its reasons, and these reasons are wrong in	law,certiorari lies to quash the decision."This  decision only affirmed that certiorari could lie	onlyif  an	order made by the inferior tribunal was	 a  speakingorder.	 It  did  not  lay down any  duty  on  the  inferiortribunal to set out the reasons for its order but(1) [1951] 1 K. B. 711, 718.(2) [1952] 1 K. B. 338.169only  pointed out that if no reasons were given it would  beimpossible for the High Court to interfere by exercising itsprerogative jurisdiction in the matter of certiorari.A more relevant decision on this point is that of this Courtin  A. K. Gopalaa v. The State of Madras and, Anr. (1).	  Inthat  case the provision of law which was  impugned  amongstothers	was  one  which	 prevented the	detenu	on  pain  ofprosecution from disclosing to the Court the grounds of	 hisdetention  communicated to him by the  detaining  authority.This provision was struck down as ultra vires and void.	 Thereason given by Mahajan J. (as he then was) is stated at  p.243:" This Court would be disabled from exercising its functionsunder  article	32 and adjudicating on the  point  that	 thegrounds given satisfy the requirements of the sub-clause  ifit  is	not  open to it to see the grounds  that  have	beenfurnished.  It is a guaranteed right of the person  detainedto have the very grounds which are the basis of the order ofdetention.   This  Court would be entitled  to	examine	 thematter	and  to see whether the grounds	 furnished  are	 thegrounds	 on the basis of which he has been detained or	theycontain some other vague or irrelevant material.  The  wholepurpose of furnishing a detained person with the grounds  isto  enable  him	 to make  a  representation  refuting  thesegrounds	 and of proving his innocence.	In order  that	thisCourt may be able to safeguard this fundamental right and togrant him relief it is absolutely essential that the  detenuis  not prohibited under penalty of punishment	to  disclosethe  grounds  to the Court and no injunction by law  can  beissued to this Court disabling it from having a look at	 thegrounds.   Section 14 creates a substantive offence  if	 thegrounds	 are disclosed and it also lays a duty on the  Courtnot to permit the disclosure of such grounds.  It  virtuallyamounts	 to a suspension of a guaranteed right	provided  bythe  Constitution inasmuch as it indirectly by	a  stringentprovision  makes  administration of the law  by	 this  Courtimpossible and at the same(1)  [1950] S.C.R. 88, 100.22170time  it deprives a detained person from  obtaining  justicefrom  this  Court.  In my opinion, therefore,  this  sectionwhen it prohibits the disclosure of the grounds	 contravenesor abridges the rights given by Part III to a citizen and isultra vires the powers of Parliament to that extent."It  is no doubt true that if there was any provision  to  befound  in  the impugned Act which prevented the	 Wage  Boardfrom giving reasons for its decision, it might be  construedto mean that the order which was thus made by the Wage Boardcould  not  be a speaking order and no	writ  of  certioraricould  ever be available to the petitioners in that  behalf.It  is	also  true that in that event this  Court  would  bepowerless  to redress the grievances of the  petitioners  byissuing	 a  writ  in  the  nature  of  certiorari  and	 thefundamental  right which a citizen has of  approaching	thisCourt  under Art. 32 of the Constitution would	be  renderednugatory.The position, however, as it obtains in the present case  isthat there is no such provision to be found in the  impugnedAct.   The  impugned Act does not say that  the	 Wage  Boardshall  not give any reason for its decision.  It is left  tothe discretion of the Wage Board whether it should give	 thereasons for its decision or not.  In the absence of any suchprohibition  it	 is  impossible	 for us	 to  hold  that	 thefundamental right conferred upon the petitioners under	Art.32  was in any manner whatever sought to be  infringed.	  Itmay  be	 noted that this point was not at all urged  in	 thepetitions which the petitioners had filed in this Court	 butwas  taken  up only in the course of the  arguments  by	 thelearned	 Counsel  for the petitioners.	It appears  to	havebeen a clear after-thought; but we have dealt with the	sameas  it	was  somewhat -strenuously urged before	 us  in	 thecourse of the arguments.  We are of the opinion that the Actcannot	be challenged as violative of the fundamental  rightenshrined in Art. 32 of the Constitution.In  regard to the constitutionality of the Act therefore  wehave  come  to the conclusion that none	 of  the  provisionsthereof is violative of the fundamental171rights enshrined in Arts. 19(1)(a), 19(1), 14 and/or 32 savethe  provision contained in s.5(1)(a)(iii) of the Act  whichis violative of the fundamental right guaranteed under	Art.19(1)(g)    of	 the   Constitution   and    is	   thereforeunconstitutional and should be struck down.Apart  from  challenging  the vires of the  Act	 dealt	withabove,	the  -petitioners contend that the decision  of	 theWage  Board  itself  is illegal and void  because:(1)  Reconstitution  of	 the  Board  was  ultra	 vires	 andunauthorised  by the Act as it stood at the time, the  ruleshaving been published only on July 30, 1956.(2)The decision by a majority was unwarranted by the Act andsince there was no provision in the Act, the Rules providingfor  the same went beyond the Act and were  therefore  ultravires.(3)The	 procedure  followed  by  the  Board  offended	 theprinciples of natural justice and was therefore invalid;(4)  The decision was invalid, because(a)  no reasons were given,(b)  nor did it disclose what considerations prevailed	withthe Board in arriving at its decision;(5) Classification on the basis of gross revenue was illegaland unauthorised by the Act.(6)Grouping ;into chains or multiple units was	unauthorisedby the Act.(7)The	Board  was  not authorised by the  Act	to  fix	 thesalaries  of journalists except in relation to a  particularindustrial  establishment and not on an All India  basis  ofall newspapers taken together;(8)The	decision  was bad as it did not	 disclose  that	 thecapacity  to  pay of any particular establishment  was	evertaken into consideration.(9)  The Board had no authority to render a decision which     wasretrospective in operation.(10) The  Board had no authority to fix scales of pay for  aperiod	of  3  years  (subject	to  review  by	the  Govt.byappointing  another Wage Board at the end of these 3  years)and(11)  The Board was handicapped for want of Cost  of  LivingIndex.172The position in law is that the decision would be illegal onany of the following three grounds, viz.,(A)Because  the	 Act  under which it was  made	was  ultravires;	[  See	Mohammad  Yasin	 v.  Town  Area	  Committee,Jalalabad & anr. (1) and Himmatlal Harilal Mehta v. State ofMadhya Pradesh (2) ].(B)Because  the decision itself infringed the  fundamentalrights of the petitioners. [ See Bidi Supply Co.v.     Unionof India & ors. (3) ].(C)  Because  the  decision was ultra vires  the  Act.	 SeePandit Ram Narain v. State of Uttar Pradesh & ors. (4) ].The  decision  of  the	Wage  Board  before  us	 cannot	  bechallenged on the grounds that the impugned Act under  whichthe  decision  is made is ultra vires or that  the  decisionitself infringes the fundamental rights of the	petitioners.In the circumstance&, the challenge must be confined only tothe third ground, viz., that the decision is ultra vires theAct itself.Be. (1).The first ground of attack is based on the circumstance thatShri  K.  P.  Kesava Menon who was  originally	appointed  amember of the Wage Board resigned on or about June 21, 1956,which resignation was accepted by the Central Government  bya  notification	 dated	July  14,  1956,  and  by  the	samenotification  the Central Government appointed in his  placeShri  K. M. Cherian and thus reconstituted the	Wage  Board.There was no provision in the Act for the resignation of anymember	from  his membership or for the filling	 in  of	 thevacancy which thus arose in the membership of the Board.   Aprovision  in  this  behalf was	 incorporated  only  in	 theWorking	 Journalists  Wage  Board Rules,  1956,	 which	werepublished by a notification in the Gazette of India Part 11-Section	 3  on	date  July 31,	1956.	It  was,  therefore,contended  that	 such  reconstitution of the  Board  by	 theappointment  of	 Shri K. M. Cherian in place of Shri  K.  P.Kesava Menon was unauthorised by the Act as it then stood(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 572, 578.(2)  [1954] S.C.R. 1122, 1127.(3)  [1956] S.C.R.267.(4)  [1956] S.C.R. 664.173and  the  Board	 which actually published  the	decision  inquestion was therefore not properly constituted.It is necessary to remember in this connection that s. 8  ofthe Act empowered the Central Government by notification  inthe Official Gazette to constitute a Wage Board.  This powerof  constituting  the Wage Board must  be  construed  havingregard to s. 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, which saysthat  where by any Central Act or Regulation made after	 thecommencement of the Act, any power is conferred then, unlessa  different intention appears that power may  be  exercisedfrom  time to time as occasion arises.	If this is the	trueposition  there	 was nothing objectionable  in	the  CentralGovernment  reconstituting the Board on the  resignation  ofShri  K.  P. Kesava Menon being accepted by  it.   The	WageBoard can in any event be deemed to have been constituted ason  that date, viz., July 14, 1956, when all the  5  memberswithin	the  contemplation of s. 8(2) of the Act were  in  aposition  to  function.	  Shri K. P. Kesava  Menon  had	 notattended the preliminary meeting of the Board which had beenheld  on May 26, 1956, and the real work of the	 Wage  Boardwas done after the appointment of Shri K. M. Cherian in	 hisplace  and stead and it was only after July 14,	 1956,	thatthe Wage Board as a whole constituted as it was on that datereally	functioned  as	such.  The objection  urged  by	 thepetitioners  in	 this behalf is too technical  to  make	 anysubstantial  difference in - regard to the  constitution  ofthe Wage Board and its functioning.Re. 2.This  ground ignores the fact that the	Working	 JournalistsWage  Board  Rules, 1956, which were published on  July	 31,1956, were made by the Central Government in exercise of thepower  conferred upon it by s. 20 of the Act.  That  sectionempowered the Central Government to make rules to carry	 outthe  purposes of the Act, in particular to provide  for	 theprocedure  to  be followed by the Board in fixing  rates  ofwages.	Rule 8 provided that every question considered at  ameeting of the Board was to be decided by a majority of	 thevotes of the members present and174voting.	 In the event of equality of votes the Chairman	 wasto have a casting vote............... This Ruletherefore prescribed that the decision of the Board could bereached	 by  a	majority and this was  the  rule  which	 wasfollowed by the Board in arriving at its decision.  The rulewas  framed  by	 the Central Government	 by  virtue  of	 theauthority  vested  in it under s. 20 of the Act	 and  was  apiece of delegated legislation which if the rules were	laidbefore	both the Houses of Parliament in accordance with  s.20(3)  of  the	Act acquired the force of  law.	  After	 thepublication  of these rules, they became a part of  the	 Actitself and any decision thereafter reached by the Wage Boardby a majority as prescribed therein was therefore lawful andcould not be impeached in the manner suggested.Re. (3).This  ground has reference to the alleged violation  by	 theWage  Board  of the principles of natural  justice.   It  isurged  that the procedure established under  the  IndustrialDisputes Act was not in terms prescribed for the Wage Board,the  Board  having  been given under s. 11 of  the  Act	 thediscretion  for	 the  purpose of fixing rates  of  wages  toexercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as anIndustrial   Tribunal  constituted  under   the	  IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947, while adjudicating upon  an  industrialdispute referred to it.	 On two distinct occasions, however,the  Wage Board definitely expressed itself that it had	 thepowers	of  an	Industrial Tribunal  constituted  under	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act' The first occasion was  when	 thequestionnaire  was  issued  by the Wage	 Board	and  in	 thequestionnaire it mentioned that it had such powers under  s.11  of the Act.	 The second occasion arose when a number  ofnewspapers  and	 journals  to  whom  the  questionnaire	 wasaddressed  failed to send their replies to the same and	 theWage  Board  at	 its  meeting  held  on	 August	 17,   1956,reiterated  the position and decided to issue a	 Press	Noterequesting the newspapers and journals to send their repliesas  soon as possible, inviting their attention to  the	factthat  the Board had powers of an Industrial  Tribunal  underthe175Act  and  if newspapers failed to send	their  replies,	 theBoard  would  be  compelled to take  further  steps  in	 thematter.	  This	is clearly indicative of the fact  that	 theWage  Board did seek to exercise the powers under the  termsof  s.	11 of the Act.	Even though, the  exercise  of	suchpowers	was discretionary with the Board, the, Board  itselfassumed	 these powers and assimilated its ,position to	thatof  an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the  IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947.  If, then, it assumed those powers,  itonly followed that it was also bound to follow the procedurewhich  an  Industrial Tribunal so constituted was  bound  tofollow.It  is further urged that in the whole of the  questionnairewhich  was  addressed  by the Wage Board  to  the  newspaperestablishments,	 there	was no concrete proposal  which	 wassubmitted by the Wage Board to them for their consideration.The  only  question which was addressed in this	 behalf	 wasQuestion  No.  4  in  Part "A"	which  asked  the  newspaperestablishments	whether	 the basic  minimum  wage,  dearnessallowance and metropolitan allowance suggested by the  PressCommission  were  acceptable  to  them	and  if	 not,	whatvariations  would  they suggest and why.   The	question  asframed	would  not necessarily focus the  attention  of	 thenewspaper  establishments  to any proposal  except  the	 onewhich  was  the subject-matter of that question,  viz.,	 the-proposal  of  the Press Commission in that behalf  and	 thenewspaper  establishments  to  whom  the  questionnaire	 wasaddressed   would  certainly  not  have	 before	  them	 anyindication  at all as to what was the wage  structure  whichwas going to be adopted by the Wage Board.  Even though	 theWage Board came to the conclusion, as a result of its havingcollected   the	 requisite  data  and  gathered	  sufficientmaterials, after receiving the answers to the  questionnaireand examining the witnesses, that certain wage structure wasa  proper one in its opinion, it was necessary for the	WageBoard  to  communicate the proposals in that regard  to	 thevarious newspaper establishments concerned -and invite	themto  make their -representations, if any, within a  specifiedperiod.	  It  was  only	 after	such  representations	werereceived from the interested parties176that the Wage Board should have finalized its proposals	 andpublished its decision.	 If this procedure had been  adoptedthe  decision  of  the	Wage  Board  could  not	 have	beenchallenged  on	the  score  of its  being  contrary  to	 theprinciples of natural justice.It would have been no doubt more prudent for the Wage  Boardto  have followed the procedure outlined above.	 The  groundNo. 8 is, in our opinion, sufficiently determinative of	 thequestion  as to the ultra vires character of the Wage  Boarddecision  and  in view of the 'conclusion reached by  us  inregard	to the same, we refrain from expressing any  opinionon this ground of attack urged by the Petitioners.Re. 4.This  ground is urged because no reasons were given  by	 theWage Board for its decision.  As a matter of fact, the	WageBoard  at  its	meeting dated April 22,	 1957,	agreed	thatreasons	 need not be given for each of the decisions and  itwas  only sufficient to record the same and  accordingly  itdid  not  give	any  reasons  for  the	decision  which	  itpublished.  In the absence of any such reasons, however,  itwas  difficult	to  divine  what  considerations,  if	any,prevailed with the Wage Board in arriving at its decision onthe  various points involved therein.  It was no  doubt	 notincumbent  on  the Wage Board to give any  reasons  for	 itsdecision.  The Act made no provision in this behalf and	 theBoard  was  perfectly within its rights if it chose  not  togive  any  reasons  for	 its  decision.	  Prudence   should,however, have dictated that it gave reasons for the decisionwhich  it ultimately reached because if it had done  so,  wewould  have  been spared, the necessity of trying  to  probeinto   its  mind  and  find  out  whether   any	  particularcircumstance  received	due consideration at  its  hands  inarriving at its decision.  The fact that no reasons are thusgiven, however, would not vitiate the decision in any mannerand we may at once say that even though no reasons are givenin  the	 form  of a regular  judgment,	we  have  sufficientindication of the Chairman's mind in the note which he	madeon  April  30, 1956, which is a contemporaneous	 record	 ex-plaining the reasons for the decision of the majority.177This  note  of	the Chairman is very  revealing	 and  throwsconsiderable  light  on	 the  question	whether	  particularcircumstances  were at all taken into consideration  by	 theWage Board before it arrived at its decision.Re. 5.This   ground  concerns	 the  classification  of   newspaperestablishments	 on  the  basis	 of  gross  revenue.	Suchclassification was challenged as illegal and unauthorised bythe   Act.    The   Act	  certainly   says   nothing   aboutclassification and could not be expected to do so.  What theAct  authorised it to do was to fix the rates of  wages	 forworking	 journalists  having regard to the  principles	laiddown  in s. 9(1) of the Act.  In fixing the  wage  structurethe  Wage Board constituted under the Act was  perfectly  atliberty	 if it thought necessary to classify  the  newspaperestablishments	in any manner it thought proper provided  ofcourse that such classification was not irrational.  If	 thenewspaper establishments all over the country had got to  beconsidered in regard to fixing of rates of wages of  workingjournalists  employed  therein it was inevitable  that	somesort  of classification should be made having regard to	 thesize  and  capacity of	newspaper  establishments.   Variouscriteria  could be adopted for the purpose of  such  classi-fication, viz., circulation of the newspaper,  advertisementrevenue,  gross revenue, capital invested in  the  business,etc.,  etc.   Even though the  proportion  of  advertisementrevenue to the gross revenue of newspaper establishments maybe   a	 relevant   consideration   for	  the	purpose	  ofclassification,	 we are not, prepared to say that  the	WageBoard	was   not  justified  in  adopting  this   mode	  ofclassification	on  the	 basis of  gross  revenue.   It	 wasperfectly  within its competence to do so and if it  adoptedthat  as  the proper basis for classification it  cannot  besaid that the basis which it adopted was radically wrong  orwas  such  as  to vitiate its decision.	  If  the  need	 forclassification	is accepted, as it should be, having  regardto   the   various  sizes  and	 capacities   of   newspaperestablishments	all  over  the	country	 it  was   certainlynecessary  to adopt a workable test for such  classificationand if the Wage Board23178had  adopted  classification  on  the  basis  of  the  grossrevenue,  we do not see any reason why that decision of	 itswas in any manner whatever unwarranted.It  may be remembered in this connection that the  NewspaperIndustry  Inquiry  Committee in U. P. had suggested  in	 itsreport dated March 31,1949, classification of newspapers  inthe manner following:-"A " Class-Papers with(1)  a circulation of 10,000 copies or above or(2)  an invested capital of rupees 3 lakhs or more :(3)  an	 annual	 income	 between  rupees one   lakhs  and  3lakhs or more:"B " Class-Papers with(1)  a circulation below 10,000 but above 5,000	  copies or(2)  an invested capital between rupees one lakh and 3 lakhsor (3)an  annual  income between rupees one lakh  and  3lakhs;"C " Class-Papers with(1)a  circulation  below 5000 copies or	 (2)  an  investedcapital below rupees one lakh or (3) an annual income  belowrupees one lakh.The  classification  on	 the  basis  of	 gross	revenue	 wasattacked by the petitioners on the ground that in the  grossrevenue	 which	is earned by the  newspaper  establishments,advertisement revenue ordinarily forms a large bulk of	suchrevenue and the revenue earned by circulation of  newspapersforms  more often than not a small part of the same,  thoughin  regard to language newspapers the position may be  some-what  different.   Unless,  therefore,	the  proportion	  ofadvertisement  revenue	in the gross  revenue  of  newspaperestablishments	were taken into consideration, it would	 notbe  possible  to form a correct estimate  of  the  financialstatus	of that newspaper establishment with a view  to	 itsclassification.	 The petitioners on the other hand suggestedthat  the  profit and loss of the  newspaper  establishmentsshould	be  adopted  as the proper test	 and  if  that	wereadopted a different179picture	 altogether would be drawn.  The  balancesheets	 andthe  profit  and  loss accounts	 of  the  several  newspaperestablishments	would  require to be considered and  it	 wascontended  that	 even if the gross revenue  of	a  particlarnewspaper  establishment  were so large as  to	justify	 itsinclusion  on the basis of gross revenue in Class " A  "  orClass  "  B  "	it  might be  working  at  a  loss  and	 itsclassification as such would not be justified.We  have  already  referred  in the  earlier  part  of	thisjudgment to the unsatisfactory nature of the profit and losstest.	Even  though the profit and loss  accounts  and	 thebalance-sheets	of  the several limited companies  may	havebeen  audited  by  their auditors and  may  also  have	beenaccepted  by  the  Income-tax authorities,  they  would	 notafford	a  satisfactory basis for  classification  of  thesenewspaper  establishments  for the reasons already  set	 outabove.As  a matter of fact, even before us attempts were  made  bythe respondent, the Indian Federation of Working Journaliststo  demonstrate	 that the profit and loss accounts  and	 thebalance-sheets	of several petitioners were manipulated	 andunreliable.   We are not called upon to decide	whether	 theprofit and loss test is one which should be accepted; it  issufficient  for our purpose to say that if such a  test	 wasnot accepted by the Wage Board, the Wage Board was certainlyfar from wrong in doing so.Re. 6.This  ground  relates to grouping into	chains	or  multipleunits  and  the ground of attack is that  such	grouping  isunauthorised by the Act.The short answer to this contention is that if such groupinginto chains or multiple units was justified having regard tothe  conditions	 of the newspaper industry in  the  country,there  was nothing in the Act which militated  against	suchgrouping.   The	 Wage Board was authorised to fix  the	wagestructure  for	working	 journalists who  were	employed  invarious	 newspaper establishments all over the country.	  Ifthe  chains  or multiple units existed in  the	country	 thenewspaper establishments which formed' such chains180or  multiple  units  were well within  the  purview  of	 theinquiry	 before	 the Wage Board and if the Wage	 Board	thuschose to group them together in that manner such grouping byitself could not be open to attack.  The Act could not	haveexpressly authorized the Wage Board to adopt such  grouping.It  was	 up  to	 the Wage Board	 to  consider  whether	suchgrouping  was justified under the circumstances or  not	 andunless we find something in the Act which prohibits the WageBoard from doing so, we would not deem any such grouping  asunauthorised.	The real difficulty, however, in the  matterof  grouping  into  chains  or	multiple  units	 arises	  inconnection with the capacity of the industry to pay, a topicwhich we shall discuss hereafter while discussing the groundin connection therewith.Re. 7.This  ground  is  based on the	definition  of	"  newspaperestablishment" found in Sec. 2 (d) of the Act.	"  Newspaperestablishment" is there defined as " an establishment  underthe  control  of  any person or	 body  of  persons,  whetherincorporated  or not, for the production or  publication  ofone or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency  orsyndicate."  So,  the contention put forward is	 that  "  anestablishment " can only mean " an establishment " and not agroup of them, even though such an individual  establishmentmay  produce  or  publish  one	or  more  newspapers.	 Thedefinition may comprise within its scope chains or  multipleunits,	but  even  so,	the  establishment  should  be	 oneindividual establishment producing or publishing a chain  ofnewspapers or multiple units of newspapers.  If such  chainsor  multiple units were, though belonging to some person  orbody  of  persons whether incorporated or not,	produced  orpublished  by  separate	 newspaper  establishments,   commoncontrol	 would	not  render.  the  constitution	 of  severalnewspaper  establishments  as  one  establishment  for	 thepurpose	 of  this definition, they would none  the  less  beseparate   newspaper  establishments  though  under   commoncontrol.Reliance  was  placed  in support of this  contention  on  adecision of the Calcutta High Court in Pravat Kumar181v.   W. T. C. Parker (1), where the expression which came upfor construction before the Court was " employed in    anindustrial establishment " and it was observed that:-"  Employed  in	 an industrial	establishment  "  must	meanemployed  in  some particular place, that  place  being	 theplace  used  for  manufacture or an  activity  amounting  toindustry, as that term is used in the Act."A   similar  interpretation  was  put  on   the	  expressionindustrial establishment " by the Madras High Court in S. R.V.  Service  Ltd.  v.  State of Madras	(2),  where  it	 wasobserved at p. 12:-"  They referred only to a dispute between the	workers	 andthe   management  of  one  industrial	establishment,	 theKumbakonam  branch  of	the S. R. V. S. Ltd.  I	 find  it  alittle	difficult  to accept the contention of	the  learnedcounsel for the Madras Union, that the Kumbakonam branch  ofthe  S. R. 'V.	S. Ltd., is not an industrial  establishmentas that expression has been used in the several sections  ofthe Act............................... I need refer only  tosection	 3  of	the Act to negative the	 contention  of	 thelearned counsel for the Madras Union, the S. R. V. S.  Ltd.,with  all  -its branches should betaken	 as  one  industrialestablishment."These  decisions  lend	support to  the	 contention  that  anewspaper  establishment  like an  industrial  establishmentshould	be  located  in one place, even	 though	 it  may  becarrying  on its activities of production or publication  ofmore  newspapers than one.  If these activities are  carriedon in different places, e. g., in different towns or  citiesof different States, the newspaper establishments  producingor  publishing	such  newspapers cannot be  treated  as	 oneindividual  establishment but should be treated as  separatenewspaper establishments for the purpose of working out	 therelations  between  themselves and their  employees.   Therewould  be  no justification for	 including  these  differentnewspaper  establishments into. one chain or  multiple	unitand treating them, as if they were one(1)  A. I. R. 1950 Cal. 116, 118, para. 20.(2)  A. I. R. 1956 Mad. 115, 122.182newspaper  establishment.  Here again, the  petitioners	 arefaced with this difficulty that there is nothing in the	 Actto  prohibit  such a grouping.	If a classification  on	 thebasis of gross revenue could be legitimately adopted by	 theWage  Board then the grouping into chains or multiple  unitscould  also be made by it.  There is nothing in the  Act  toprohibit  the treating of several  newspaper  establishmentsproducing  or  publishing one or more newspapers  though  indifferent   parts   of	 the  country	as   one   newspaperestablishment for the purpose of fixing the rates of  wages.It would not be illegitimate to expect the same standard  ofemployment  and conditions of service in  several  newspaperestablishments	under the control of any person or  body  ofpersons,  whether  incorporated or not; for an	employer  tothink  of employing one set of persons on higher  scales  ofwages  and another set of workers on lower scales  of  wageswould  by  itself be iniquitous, though it  would  be  quitelegitimate to expect the difference in scales having  regardto  the	 quality  of  the work	required  to  be  done,	 theconditions  of labour in different regions of  the  country,the  standard of living in those regions and  other  cognatefactors.All these considerations would necessarily have to be  bornein  mind  by the Wage Board in arriving at its	decision  inregard to the wage structure though the relative  importanceto be attached to one circumstance or the other may vary  inaccordance with the conditions in different areas or regionswhere the newspaper establishments are located.Re. 8.We  now	 come to the most important ground, viz.,  that	 thedecision of the Wage Board has not taken into  considerationthe   capacity	 to   pay  of	any   particular   newspaperestablishment.	 As  we have already seen, the	fixings:  ofrates  of wages by the Wage Board did not prescribe  whetherthe  wages which were to be fixed were minimum	wages,	fairwages, or living, wages and it was left to the discretion ofthe  Wage Board to determine the same.	The  principles	 forits  guidance were, However, laid down and  they  prescribedthe circumstances which were to be taken into  considerationbefore183such  determination was made by the Wage Board.	 One of	 theessential considerations was the capacity of the industry topay  and  that	was  comprised within  the  category  "	 thecircumstances  relating to newspaper industry  in  differentregions	 of the country ". It remains to consider,  however,whether	 the Wage Board really understood this	category  inthat  sense  and  in fact applied its mind to  it.   At	 itspreliminary meeting held on May 26, 1956, the Board set up aSubCommittee  to draft a questionnaire to be issued  to	 thevarious journals and organisations concerned, with a view toeliciting  factual  data  and  other  relevant	 informationrequired  for the fixation of wages.  The Sub-committee	 wasrequested  to bear in mind the need inter alia	for  'properclassification	of the country into different areas  on	 thebasis  of certain criteria like population, cost of  living,etc.  This was the only reference to this requirement of  s.9(1)  and there was no reference herein to the	capacity  ofthe  industry  to  pay	which we  have	held  was  comprisedtherein.  The only question in the questionnaire as  finallyframed	which  had  any	 reference  to	this  criterion	 wasQuestion  No.  7 in Part " A " under the heading  "  SpecialCircumstances  " and that question was: " Are there in	yourregions	 any special conditions in respect of the  newspaperindustry  which	 affect	 the fixing of	rates  of  wages  ofworking	 journalists  ? If so, specify	the  conditions	 andindicate  how they affect the question of wages."  But	herealso  it  is  difficult to find that  the  capacity  of	 theindustry  to pay was really sought to be included  in  thesespecial	 conditions.   The  Wage Board no  doubt  asked	 fordetailed  accounts  of	newspaper  establishments  and	alsorequired  information  which  would help it  in	 the  properevaluation  of	the nature and quality of  work	 of  variouscategories  of working journalists, but the capacity of	 theindustry   to	pay   which  was  one	of   the   essentialconsiderations was nowhere prominently brought in issue	 andno  information	 on that point was sought from	the  variousnewspaper establishments to whom the questionnaire was goingto  be	addressed.   The  answers  to  Question	 No.  7	  assummarized by the Wage Board no doubt referred in some casesto the capacity184of  the	 industry  to pay but that was	brought	 in  by	 thenewspaper   establishments  themselves	who   answered	 thequestion in an incidental manner and could not be said to beprominent in the minds of the parties concerned.It  is	pertinent  to observe that  even  before  the  PressCommission  the	 figures  had  disclosed  that	out  of	 127newspapers 68 had been running into loss and 59 with profitsand  there  was an overall profit of about 1% on  a  capitalinvestment  of seven crores.  The -profit and loss  accountsand  the balance sheets of the various companies  owning  orcontrolling  newspaper	establishments were  also  submittedbefore	the  Wage Board but they had so far as they  went  avery sorry tale to tell.  The profit and loss statements forthe  year  1954-55  revealed that while 43  of	them  showedprofits	 40  had  incurred  losses.   Though  no  scientificconclusion  could  be drawn from this  statement  it  showedbeyond doubt that the condition of the newspaper industry asa  whole could not be considered satisfactory.	Under  thesecircumstances,	it was all the more incumbent upon the	WageBoard  even  though  it discounted  these  profit  and	lossstatements as not necessarily reflecting the true  financialposition of these newspaper establishments, to consider	 thequestion of the capacity of the industry to pay with greatervigilance.There  was  again another difficulty which  faced  the	WageBoard in that behalf and it was that out of 5,705 newspapersto whom the questionnaire was addressed only 312 or at	best325  had responded and the Wage Board was in the dark as  towhat   was  the	 position  in  regard  to  other   newspaperestablishments.	  As a matter of fact, the chairman  in	 hisnote dated April 30, 1957, himself pointed out that the WageBoard had no data before it of all the newspapers and  whereit  had,  that	was in many cases  not	satisfactory.	Thisaspect	was  again  emphasized by him in his  note  when  hereiterated that the data available to the Wage Board had notbeen  as  complete as it would have wished them	 to  be	 andtherefore  recommended	in the end the	establishment  of  astanding  administrative machinery which would collect	fromall newspaper185establishments in the country on a systematic basis detailedinformation and data such as those on employment, wage ratesand  earnings,	financial condition of	papers,	 figures  ofcirculation, etc., which may be required for the  assessmentof the effects of the decision of the Wage Board at the timeof the review.	The Wage Board, in fact, groped in the	darkin  the	 absence of sufficient data  and  information  whichwould enable it to come to a proper conclusion in regard  tothe  wage  structure  which it was  to	determine.   In	 theabsence	 of such data and materials the Board was not  in  aposition  to  work  out	 what would be	the  impact  of	 itsproposals on the capacity of the industry to pay as a  wholeor even region-wise and the chairman in his note stated thatit  was	 difficult for the Board at that stage to  work	 outwith any degree of precision, the economic and other effectsof its decision on the newspaper industry as a whole.	Evenwith  regard to the impact of these proposals on  individualnewspaper establishments the chairman stated that the futureof the Indian language newspapers was bright, having  regardto  increasing	literacy and the growth	 of  political	con-sciousness of the reading public, and by rational managementthere	was  great  scope  for	increasing  the	 income	  ofnewspapers  and even though there was no possibility of	 anyadjustment  which might satisfy all persons  interested,  itwas hoped that no newspaper would be forced to close down asa result of its decision; but that if there was a good paperand  it	 deserved to exist, the Government  and	 the  publicwould  help  it	 to  continue.	This was  again	 a  note  ofoptimism which does not appear to have been justified by anyevidence on the record.Even  though,  the  Wage  Board	 classified  the   newspaperestablishments	into  5 classes from " A " to " E "  on	 thebasis	of  their  gross  revenue  the	proportion  of	 theadvertisement  revenue to the gross revenue does not  appearto have been taken into consideration nor was the  essentialdifference  which subsisted between the circulation and	 thepaying capacity of the language newspapers as compared	withnewspapers in the24186English language taken into account.  If this had been done,the  basis  of gross revenue which the	Wage  Board  adoptedwould have been modified in several respects.The grouping of the newspapers into chains or multiple unitsimplied	 that  the weaker units in those groups were  to  betreated	 as  on	 a par with the stronger units	and  it	 wasstated that the loss in the weaker units would be more	thancompensated  by	 the profits in the more  prosperous  units.The  impact of these proposals on groups of  newspapers	 wasonly defended on principle without taking into considerationthe  result  which  they would have on the  working  of	 theweaker units.  Here also the Chairman expressed the  opinionthat  the  Board  was  conscious that as  a  result  of	 itsdecision, some of the journalists in the weaker units of thesame group or chain may get much more than those working  inits  highest  income units.  He however stated that  if	 theprinciple was good and scientific, the inevitable result  ofits  application  should be judged from the  stand-point  ofIndian Journalism as a whole and not the burden it casts  ona  particular  establishment.  It is clear  therefore,	thatthis  principle which found favour with the Wage  Board	 wassought	to be worked out without taking	 into  considerationthe burden which it would impose upon the weaker units of  aparticular newspaper establishment.The  representatives  of  the  employers  objected  to	 thefixation  of  scales of wages on the plea that	fixation  ofrates  of  wages did not include the fixation of  scales  ofwages.	This contention was negatived by the representativesof the employees as also by the Chairman and the Wage  Boardby  its	 majority  decision accepted the  position  that  itcould,	while fixing the rates of wages also fix the  scalesof wages.  The Press Commission itself had merely  suggesteda  basic minimum wage for the consideration of	the  partiesconcerned  but	had suggested that so far as the  scales  ofwages  were concerned they were to be settled by  collectivebargaining  or by adjudication.	 Even though the Wage  Boardtook  upon  itself the burden of fixing scales of  wages  asreally comprised within the terms of their reference, it wasincumbent upon it to consider what the impact  of187the scales of wages fixed by it would be on the capacity  ofthe  industry  to pay.	There is nothing on  the  record  tosuggest	 that  both as regards the rates of  wages  and	 thescales of wages which it determined the Wage Board ever tookinto account as to what the impact of its decision would  beon the capacity of the industry to pay either as a whole  orregion-wise.There  is,  however, a further difficulty in  upholding	 thedecision  of  the Wage Board in this behalf and it  is	thisthat  even as regards the fixation of the rates of wages  ofworking	 journalists  the Wage Board does not seem  to	havetaken  into  account the other provisions of the  Act  whichconferred  upon	 the  working journalists  the	benefits  ofretrenchment  compensation,  payment of gratuity,  hours  ofwork  and leave.  These provisions were bound to have  theirimpact	 on   the   paying   capacity	of   the   newspaperestablishments	and if these had been borne in mind  by	 theWage  Board  it	 is highly likely that the  rates  of  wagesincluding  the scales of wages as finally  determined  mighthave  been  on	a lesser scale than what one  finds  in	 itsdecision.This  difficulty  becomes all the more formidable  when	 oneconsiders  that the working journalists only constituted  atbest  one-fifth of the total staff employed in	the  variousestablishments.	  The rest of the 80% comprised persons	 whomay  otherwise be described as factory workers who would  beable  to  ameliorate their conditions of service  by  havingresort	to the machinery under the Industrial Disputes	Act.If the conditions of service of the working journalists wereto  be	improved by the Wage Board the	other  employees  ofnewspaper  establishments were bound to be restive add	theywould  certainly,  at the very	earliest  opportunity  raiseindustrial  disputes with a view to the betterment of  theirconditions  of service.	 Even though the  Industrial  Courtsestablished  under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947,  mightnot give them relief commensurate with the relief which	 theWage Board gave to the working journalists, there was  boundto  be an improvement, in their conditions of service  whichthe Industrial Court would certainly determine having regardto the benefits which the working journalists188enjoyed and this would indeed impose an additional financialburden	 on   the  newspaper  establishments   which   wouldsubstantially	affect	 their	capacity   to	pay.	Thisconsideration  also was necessarily to be borne in  mind  bythe  Wage  Board in arriving at its final decision  and	 one(foes  not find anything on the record which shows  that  itwas actually taken into consideration by the Wage Board.The  retrospective  operation of the. decision of  the	WageBoard  was also calculated to impose a financial  burden  onthe  newspaper	establishments.	 Even though this may  be  aminor	 consideration	 as   compared	 with	the    otherconsiderations	above  referred to, it was none the  less  acircumstance  which the Wage Board ought to have  consideredin arriving at its decision in regard to the fixing of ratesof wages.The  financial burden which was imposed by the	decision  ofthe  Wage Board was very vividly depicted in the  statementsfurnished  to us on behalf of the petitioners in the  courseof the hearing before us.  These statements showed that	 thewage bill of these newspaper establishments was going to  beconsiderably increased, that the retrospective operation  ofthe decision was going to knock off a considerable sum	fromtheir  reserves	 and  that  the	 burden	 imposed  upon	 thenewspaper   establishments  by	the  joint  impact  of	 theprovisions   of	  the  Act  in	 regard.   to	retrenchmentcompensation,  payment of gratuity, hours of work and  leaveas  well as the decision of the Wage Board in regard to	 thefixing	of rates of wages and the scales of wages  would  besuch  as  would	 cripple  the  resources  of  the  newspaperestablishments,	 if not necessarily lead to  their  completeextinction.   The statements also showed what  extra  burdenwas  imposed  upon  the newspaper  establishments,  if	theywanted	to  discharge  the working  journalists	 from  theiremploy which burden was all the greater, if per chance,	 thenewspaper establishments, even though reluctantly came to  adecision  that it was worth their while to close down  theirbusiness  rather  than	continue the  same  with  all  thesefinancial  burdens  imposed upon them.	These  figures	havebeen given by us in the earlier189part  of our judgment and we need not repeat the same.	 Theconclusion, however, is inescapable that the decision of theWage  Board  imposed a very heavy financial  burden  on	 thenewspaper establishments, which burden was augmented by	 theclassification	on the basis of gross-revenue,	fixation  ofscales	of wages, provisions as, regards the hours  of	workand  leave, grouping of newspapers into chains	or  multipleunits  and retrospective operation given to the decision  ofthe Wage Board as therein mentioned.If  these  proposals  had  been	 circulated,  before   beingfinalized,  by	the  Wage Board	 to  the  various  newspaperestablishments so that these newspaper establishments could,if  they  so desired, submit their  opinions  thereupon	 andtheir representations, if any, in regard to the same to	 theWage  Board for its consideration and if the Wage Board	 hadafter  receiving such opinions and representations from	 thenewspaper  establishments concerned finalised  it  decision,this attack on the ground of the Wage Board not having takeninto consideration the capacity of the industry to pay as  awhole or region-wise would have lost much of its force.	 TheWage  Board,  however, did nothing of the  type.   Proposalswere exchanged between the representatives of the  employersand  the representatives of the employees.   The  discussionthat  the chairman had with each set of representatives	 didnot  bear  any	fruit and the chairman	himself	 by  way  ofmediation,  as it were, submitted to them his own  proposalspresumably  having  regard to the different points  of	viewwhich  had  been  expressed  by	 both  these  parties.	 Thedecision  in regard to the scales of wages, was, as we	haveseen  before, a majority decision which was not endorsed  bythe representatives of the employers.  The proposals of	 thechairman also were not acceptable to the representatives  ofthe  employers	but  the representatives  of  the  employeesaccepted them and they thus became the majority decision  ofthe  Wage Board.  The ultimate decision of the	chairman  onthose points does not appear to have been the result of	 anyconsideration  of the capacity of the industry to pay  as  awhole or region-wise but reflects a compromise190which  he brought about between the diverse views but  whichalso  was generally accepted only by the representatives  ofthe employees and not the representatives of the  employers.Nowhere	 can  we  find	in  the	 instant  case	any  genuineconsideration of the capacity of the industry to pay  eitheras  a  whole  or  region-wise.	We  are	 supported  in	thisconclusion  by the observations of the chairman	 himself  inthe  note which he made simultaneously with the	 publicationof the decision on April 30, 1957, that it was difficult forthe Wage Board at that stage to work out with any degree  ofprecision, the economic and other effects of the decision onthe newspaper industry as a whole.An  attempt  was made on behalf of the	respondents  in	 thecourse	of  the	 hearing  before us  to	 shew  that  by	 theconversion of the currency into naye pyse and the newspaperscharging  to  the  public higher price	by  reason  of	suchconversion, the income of several newspapers had appreciablyincreased.   These  figures were, however,  controverter  onbehalf	of  the	 petitioners and it  was  pointed  out	thatwhatever increase in the revenue was brought about by reasonof  this  conversion of price into naye pyse was  more	thanoffset	by  the fall in circulation, ever  rising  price  ofnewsprint and the higher commission, etc., which was payableby the newspaper establishments to their commission  agents.The  figures  as worked out need not be	 described  here  indetail;	 but  we are satisfied that the	 conversion  of	 theprice into naye pyse had certainly not the effect which	 wasurged  and  did	 not  add to  the  paying  capacity  of	 thenewspaper establishments.The  very fact that the Wage Board thought it  necessary  toexpress	 a pious hope that if there is a good paper  and  itdeserves  to exist, the Government and the public will	helpit to continue, and also desired the interests which it felthad  been hit hard by its decision not to pass	judgment  inhaste,	but to watch, the effects of its decision in  actualworking	 with patience for a period of 3 to 5  years,  showsthat, the Wage Board was not sure of its own ground and	 waspublishing its decision merely by way of an experiment.	 Thechairman urged upon the Government of India191the   desirability  of	creating  immediately	a   standingadministrative machinery which could also combine in  itselfthe functions of implementing and administering its decisionand that of preparing the ground for the review and revisionenvisaged after 3 to 5 years.  This was again a, pious	hopeindulged in by the Wage Board.	It was not incumbent on	 theGovernment  to	fulfill that expectation and  there  was  noknowing	 whether the Government would ever review or  revisethe  decision  of the Wage Board at the expiration  of	suchperiod.We  have carefully examined all the proceedings of the	WageBoard  and the different tables and statements	prepared  bythem.	Neither in the proceedings nor in any of the  tablesdo  we see -satisfactory evidence to show that the  capacityof  the industry to pay was examined by the Board in  fixingthe wage structure.  As we have already observed, it was  nodoubt  open to the Board not to attach undue  importance  tothe  statements	 of profit and loss  accounts  submitted  byvarious	  newspaper   establishments,	but,   since   thesestatements  prima facie show that the trade was	 not  makingprofit	it  was	 all the more necessary	 for  the  Board  tosatisfy	 itself that the different classes of the  newspaperestablishments	would be able to bear the burden imposed  bythe  wage  structure  which the Board had  decided  to	fix.Industrial adjudication is familiar with the method which isusually adopted to determine the capacity of the employer topay the burden sought to be imposed on him.. If the industryis divided into different classes it may not be necessary toconsider the capacity of each individual unit to pay but  itwould certainly be necessary to consider the capacity of therespective  classes to-bear the burden imposed on  them.   Across-section  of  these respective classes may have  to  betaken  for careful examination and all relevant factors	 mayhave  to be borne in mind in deciding what burden the  classconsidered as a whole can bear.	 If possible, an attempt canalso  be made, and is often made, to project the  burden  ofthe  wage structure into two or three succeeding  years	 anddetermine  how	it  affects the financial  position  of	 theemployer.  The whole of the192record before the Board including the chairman's note  givesno  indication at all that an attempt was made by the  Boardto  consider  the capacity of the industry to  pay  in	thismanner.	 Indeed, the proceedings show that the demands	madeby the representatives of the employees and the	 concessionsmade  by the employers' representatives were taken as  rivalcontentions  and the Chairman did his best to arrive at	 hisfinal  decision	 on the usual basis of give  and  take.	  Inadopting  this course, all the members of the Board seem  tohave lost sight of the fact that the essential	prerequisiteof deciding the wage structure was to consider the  capacityof the industry to pay and this, in our opinion,  introducesa  fatal infirmity in the decision of the Board.  If we	 hadbeen satisfied that the Board had considered this aspect  ofthe matter, we would naturally have been reluctant to acceptany challenge to the validity of the decision on the  groundthat  the capacity to pay had not been properly	 considered.After  all, in cases of this kind where special	 Boards	 areset  up to frame wage structures, this Court would  normallyrefuse	to  constitute	itself into a  court  of  appeal  onquestions  of fact; but, in the present case,  an  essentialcondition  for	the  fixation of  wage	structure  has	beencompletely  ignored  and  so there is  no  escape  from	 theconclusion  that  the Board has	 contravened  the  mandatoryrequirement of s. 9 and in consequence its decision is ultravires the Act itself.Re. 9.This ground, viz., that the Board had no authority to rendera  decision  which was retrospective in	 operation  in	alsountenable.   The Wage Board certainly had  the	jurisdictionand  authority	to  pronounce  a  decision  which  could  beretrospective in effect from the date of its appointment andthere  was no legal flaw in the Wage Board prescribing	thatits  decision  should be retrospective in operation  in	 themanner	indicated  by it. The retrospectivity may  have	 itsrepercussions on the capacity of the industry to pay and  weneed  not say anything more in regard to the same.  We	havealready dealt with it above.193Be. 10.Ground	No. 10 talks of the authority of the Wage  Board  tofix scales of pay for a period of 3 years, subject to reviewby  the Government by appointing another Wage Board  at	 theend of that period.  We are not concerned with such fixationof the period for the' simple reason that the Board has	 notin  terms done so.  The only authority which it had  was  tofix  the rates of wages and submit its decision	 in  respectthereof	 to the Government.  Any pious hope  expressed	thatthe decision should be subject to review or revision by	 theGovernment  by appointment of another Wage Board  after	 thelapse of 3 or 5 years was not a part of its decision and  weneed  not pause to consider the effect of such	fixation  ofthe period, if any, because it has in fact not been done.Re. 11.The  last ground talks of the Wage Board  being	 handicappedfor  want of Cost of Living Index.  This ground also  cannotavail  the  petitioners	 for  the  simple  reason  that	 thedecision  of  the Wage Board itself referred  in  Clause  24thereof	 to  the  all  India cost  of  living  index  numberpublished by the Labour Bureau of the Government of India  0Base 1944: 100 and fixed the dearness allowance in  relationto  the same.  These statistics were available to  the	WageBoard  and it cannot be said that the Wage Board was in	 anymanner whatever handicapped in that respect.On  a  consideration  of  all the  grounds  of	attack	thuslevelled against the validity and the binding nature of	 thedecision of the Wage Board, we have, therefore, come to	 theconclusion  that the said decision cannot be  sustained	 andmust be set aside.The   petitions	  will,	 therefore,  be	 allowed   and	 thepetitioners will be entitled to an order declaring that s. 5(1)  (a)  (iii) of the Working	Journalists  (Conditions  ofService)  and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955,  is  ultravires the Constitution of India and that the decision of theWage Board dated April 30, 1957, is illegal and void.As regards the costs, in view of the fact that the25194petioners have failed in most of their contentions in regardto  the	 constitutionality of the Act,	the  fairest,  orderwould  be that each party should bear and pay its own  costsof these petitions.Civil Appeals Nos. 699-703 of 1957.These Civil Appeals are directed against the decision of theWage Board and seek to set aside the same as destroying	 thevery existence of the newspaper establishments concerned andinfringing  their fundamental rights.  Special	leave  underArt.  136 of the Constitution was granted by this  Court  inrespect	 of  each  of  them,  subject  to  the	question  ofmaintainability of the appeals being open to be urged.These  appeals	are  also  covered  by	the  judgment	justdelivered  by us in Petition No. 91 of 1957 & Ors., and	 theappellants would be entitled to a declaration in each one ofthem that the decision of the Wage Board is ultra vires	 theWorking	   Journalists	 (Conditions   of    Service)	 andMiscellaneous  Provisions Act, 1955, and therefore void	 andinoperative.In  view  of  the  conclusion  thus  reached,  we  feel	  itunnecessary  to	 consider  whether  the	 appeals  would	  bemaintainable  under  Art.  136	of  the	 Constitution.	 Theappellants   having   substantially   succeeded	  in   theirrespective petitions under Art. 32 of the Constitution,	 thequestion  has  now become purely academic and  we  need	 notspend any time over the same.The  result therefore is that there will be no	orders	savethat  all the parties thereto shall bear and pay  their	 owncosts thereof.				    Petitions allowed.			    Appeals disposed of accordingly.			    195