PETITIONER:MST.  RUKHMABAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:LALA LAXMINARAYAN AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:17/11/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  335		  1960 SCR  (2) 253 CITATOR INFO : R	    1966 SC 470	 (13) RF	    1967 SC  96	 (26)ACT:Hindu	Law-joint  family-Partition-Admissions	of   membersaccepting Partition, value of-New point-When can be  allowedto be raised-Suit for declaration of deed as sham- -Right tosue,  when accrues-Limitation-Specific Relief Act, 1877,  (1of  1877),  s. 42-Indian Limitation Act,1908 (IX  of  1908),Sch. 1, art. 120.HEADNOTE:A  joint  Hindu	 family which  was  heavily  indebted  ownedextensive properties and business.  In 1915 certain  membersof   the  family  including  one  Govindprasad	executed   aregistered  deed  of  relinquishment in	 favour	 of  anothermember.	 The deed recited that the members of the family hadbecome	separated in 1898 by a deed of relinquishment  whichwas  not  registered and so a fresh one was  being  executedconfirming  the earlier arrangement.  On February 17,  1916,Govindprasad executed a trust deed in favour of two  minors,Chandanlal,  a son of one of his brothers and  Rukhmabai,  adaughter of another brother.  The trust was created in a sumof  Rs.	 15,000 for constructing a building or	buying	landtherewith  and	paying	the net income from it	to  the	 twobeneficiaries in equal shares.	With a part of this money  asite  was purchased and a building was constructed  thereon.On  October  25,  1929,	 Rukhmabai  filed  a  suit   againstChandanlal for partition of the said property and obtained adecree.	  When the Commissioner appointed by the Court	wentto   effect  the  partition  on	 February  13,	 1937,	 therespondent, who is a brother of Chandanlal, obstructed	him,and,  on October 8, 1940, he filed a suit for a	 declarationthat  the  trust deed executed by Govindprasad	was  a	shamdocument  and that the property was joint  family  property.Apart  from  oral  and documentary  evidence  the  appellantrelied	also upon certain admissions made by members of	 thefamily	accepting  the partition.  The Court  dismissed	 thesuit holding that Govindprasad had become separated in 1898,that the trust deed was genuine and that the trust money washis  self-acquired property.  In the appeal before the	HighCourt by the respondent the appellant raised two new  pleas,namely, (i) that the suit for a mere declaration was  barredby  s. 42 of the Specific Relief Act and (ii) that the	suitwas barred by limitation under art. 12 of the Limitation Actas it was not filed within six years of the knowledge of therespondent  of	the fraudulent nature  of  the	transactionswhich  he  had	in  1917, or at	 least	in  1929,  when	 theappellant  filed  her suit for partition.   The	 High  Courtrejected  both these contentions, held that the	 two  relin-quishment  deeds and the deed of trust were  sham  documentsand set aside the decree of the trial court and decreed the33254respondent's suit.  The appellant obtained a certificate andappealed.Held,  that the documents in question were  sham  documents,that the property in suit was joint family property and thatthe suit had been rightly decreed.The admissions made by one or other members of the family tomeet  particular contingencies or to get an  advantage	werenot  of much value in determining the question whether	someof  the	 members of the joint Hindu  family  had  separated.Persons	  sometimes  made  statements  which  served   theirpurpose, or proceeded upon ignorance of the true position  ;and  it was not their statements but their  relations,	withthe  estate,  which should be taken  into  consideration  indetermining the issue.Alluri Venkatapathi Raju v. Dantuluri Venkatanarasimha Raju,(1935-36) L.R. 63 I.A. 397, relied on.The  new  point raised by the appellant that  the  suit	 wasbarred	by  s- 42 of the Specific Relief Act  could  not  beallowed	 to  be	 raised as it was not raised  in  the  trialCourt.	 If the point had been raised at the earliest  stagethe respondent could have asked for the necessary  amendmentto  comply  with  the provisions of S. 42-  It	was  a	wellsettled rule of practice not to dismiss suits  automaticallybut  to allow the plaintiff to make the necessary  amendmentif  he	sought to do so.  But the new  point  of  limitationcould  be allowed to be raised in appeal as even if  it	 hadbeen  raised at the earliest stage the respondent could	 nothave pleaded or proved any new facts to meet the point.The  suit  was not barred by limitation.  The right  to	 sueunder  art.  120  of the Limitation  Act  accrued  when	 thedefendant  clearly and unequivocally threatened to  infringethe right asserted by the plaintiff.  Every threat to such aright  was not a clear and unequivocal threat as  to  compelthe  plaintiff to file a suit.	The execution of  the  Trustdeed  in  1916	and the construction of the  house  did	 notconstitute  any	 invasion of the respondent's right  as	 thedeed  was  a sham document executed for the benefit  of	 thefamily.	  Till	1926 the respondent's father  lived  in	 thehouse and since 1936 the respondent had been residing in thehouse.	The decree in the suit filed by Rukhmabai could	 notbind  him  or  affect  his possession  of  the	house.	 Therespondent's  right was not effectively threatened till	 thecommissioner came to partition the property on February	 17,1937,  and  the suit was filed within six  years  from	thatdate.Bolo  v.  Koklan,  (1929-30) L.R.  57  I.A.  325,  AnnamalaiChettiar v. A.M.K.C.T. Muthukaruppan Chettiar, (1930) I.L.R.8 Rang. 645, Govinda Narayan Singh v. Sham Lal Singh, (1930-31)  L.R. 58 I.A. 125 and Pothukutchi Appa Rao v.  Secretaryof State, A.I.R. 1938 Mad. 193, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTIoN: Civil Appeal No, 173 of 1955,255Appeal from the judgment and decree dated September 9, 1949,of  the former Nagpur High Court, in first appeal No. 45  of1944, arising out of the judgment and decree dated April 24,1944,  of  the First Additional District Judge,	 Nagpur,  inCivil Suit No. 12A of 1940.W.   S. Barlingay, Shankar Anand and A. G. Ratna parkhi, forthe appellant.A.   V.	 Viswanatha Sastri, R. K. Monohar, S. N. Andley,  J.B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, for the respondents.1959.  November 17.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySUBBA RAO J.-This appeal by certificate is directed  againstthe  decree  and  judgment  of the  High  Court	 at  Nagpur,reversing  those  of the First	Additional  District  Judge,Nagpur,	 in  Civil  Suit  No. 12-A of  1940.   It  would  beconvenient  at	the outset to give the	following  genealogywhich  would  help  to understood  the	contentions  of	 theparties.(The geneology is given on the next page).256			     Ramesahai			     (d. 1897)				 |			   Ganesh Parsad			      (d. 1928)				 |			   Daughter  Mst.			      Rukhmahai				 ==			   Lala Sheoshankar			    (defendant 1)			     Ramesahai			     (d. 1897)				 |			   Ajodhya parsad			      (d. 1912)			Adopted son Chandanlal			    (d. 31-1-1940)				 ==			     Window Mst.			    Annapurnabai			    (defandant 2)			      Ramasahai			       (d.1897)				  |			     Janki parsad			       (d. 1923)				  |  ---------------------------------------------------------       |			  |		     |  Ramprasad		      daughter	       Ganga prasad  (defendant 1)		      Saroobai	      (defandant 5)				==			   Lala Sunderlal			      Ramasahai			      (d. 1897)				 |			   Govind prasad			      (d. 1923)			adopted son Kisanlal			    (defendant 8)			      Ramasahai			      (d. 1897)				  |			      Ratanlal			      (d. 1926)				  | ----------------------------------------------------------      |				  |			| LAXMINARAYAN		     Chandanlal		   Kisanlal (plaintiff)	   (adopted to Ajodhya prasad)	(adopted to					     Govind prasad)			      Ramasahai			      (d. 1897)				  |			    Mangal prasad			      (d. 1914)				  |			       Ghasiram			       (d. 1917)			      Ramasahai			      (d. 1897)				  |			     Sarjoo prasad			       (d. 1903)				  |			 adopted son Tulsiram			    (defendant 3)			       Ramasahai			       (d. 1897)				  |			       Ramchand			    (d. 5-10-1950)				  | ----------------------------------------------------------     |		    |		  |		   | Tulsiram	Sheonarayan    Harnarayan     Kamal Narayan (adopted to   (defendant 6)  (defendant 7)	 (d. 1924) Sarjoo prasad			      Ramasahai			      (d. 1897)				  |			   Daughter Tarabai				 ==			   Lala Chhotelal257During the life time of Ramasahai, he and his eight sons andone  cousin,  namely,  Sitaram, constituted  a	joint  Hindufamily	with  Ramasahai	 as its managers  The  joint  familycarried on its ancestral family business of excise contractsin several districts in the former C. P. & Berar  provinces.On January 24, 1897, Ramasahai died and, at the time of	 hisdeath,	the family, though heavily indebted,  had  extensiveproperties  distributed	 at  various  places  like   Nagpur,Kamptee	 Rajnandgaon,  Raipur, Jabalpur	 etc.	Sarjooprasaddied in 1903, Ajodhya prasad in 1912, Mangalprasad in  1914,Jankiprasad in 1923, Ratanlal in 1926, Ganeshprasad in 1928,Govindprasad in 1934, and Ramchand in 1940.  On February 27,1915, Ganeshprasad, Jankiprasad, Govindprasad, Ratanlal	 andRamchand, the surviving brothers executed a registered	deedof  relinquishment  in	favour	of  Jankiprasad.   In	thatdocument  it  was  recited  that  the  brothers	 had  becomeseparated  on January 24, 1898, by a deed of  relinquishmentof  that  date	and  that, as  the  said  document  was	 notregistered,  they were executing a fresh one confirming	 theearlier	 arrangement.	On February 17,	 1916,	Govindprasadexecuted  a trust deed in favour of his nephew,	 Chandanlal,the  son  of  his deceased brother  Ajodhyaprasad,  and	 hisniece, Rukhmabai, the daughter of his brother  Ganeshprasad,both  of  whom	were  minors at that  time.   In  that	deedGovindprasad,  after  asserting that he had  become  dividedfrom   his  brothers  under  the  aforesaid  two  deeds	  ofrelinquishment,	 created a trust in a sum of Rs. 15,000	 forthe  benefit of the said minors, handed over the said  moneyto  the trustees appointed thereunder and. directed them  toconstruct  a building or buy a land and pay the	 net  incomefrom  the  said property in equal shares to  the  two  minorbeneficiaries.	 With  a  part of that	amount	a  site	 waspurchased  in Cotton Market, Nagpur, and between  the  years1916  and  1921 a building was constructed thereon.   On  orabout  October	25,  1929, Rukhmabai filed  a  suit  againstChandanlal for partition of the said property and obtained adecree	against	 him on January 5, 1934, for  partition	 andmesne profits.	Chandanlal filed an258appeal against that decree and it was dismissed.  After	 thesaid  decree, Chandanlal died on January 31, 1940. When	 theCommissioner appointed by the Court went to the building  toeffect the partition by metes and  bounds,  the	 respondent,who  was  in  the house, obstructed  the  Commissioner,	 andthereafter  on October 8, 1940, filed a suit, out  of  whichthe  present appeal arises, for a declaration that the	saidtrust  deed  executed  by  Govindprasad	 in  favour  of	 theappellant   and	  Chandanlal  was  a  sham   document.The   respondents'  case,  inter  alia	is  that  the  firstrelinquishment	deed was brought into existence	 some-	timebefore	 the  second  registered  relinquishment  deed	 wasexecuted  and  that the said deeds and the trust  deed	wereparts of a same scheme of fraud conceived by the members  ofthe  family to defraud the creditors. The appellant, on	 theother hand, alleges that Govind-prasad had really  separatedhimself	 from the other members of the family, that  he	 hadhis  own businesses, that from out of his  self-acquisitionshe  created the trust deed to benefit his minor	 nephew	 andniece  for  whom he had great love and affection,  and	thatsubsequently  the  trustees purchased a land and  built	 thehouse  thereon with additional funds supplied by  him.	 Shealso alleges that the first respondent, after having set  upby  his natural brother, Chandanlal, to to resist her  claimto  the building and having failed in that attempt,  startedthe  present litigation to deprive her of the fruits of	 herdecree.On the pleadings the learned District Judge framed as	manyas 12 issues.  He held, on a consideration of the  documentsand oral evidence adduced, that Govindprasad became  dividedfrom  the  members  of	the  joint  family  in	1898,	thatthereafter he was carrying on the business of  moneylending,was  dealing in gold and silver, and also was taking  liquorcontracts, that out of his self-acquisitions he created	 thetrust  in  respect  of Rs. 15,000, and	that  the  land	 waspurchased  and the suit building was put up with  the  trustamount	and  additional	 amounts given	by  him.   On  thosefindings,  the	suit was dismissed.  The respondent  No.  1,(hereinafter called the respondent), preferred			    259an  appeal against that decree to the High Court at  Nagpur.The  High Court held that the two relinquishment deeds	weresham documents brought into 'existence to shield the  liquidassets of the family, which were for that purpose placed  inthe  hands of Govindprasad, that the trust deed was  also  asham  one designed to achieve the same purpose and that	 thehouse was also constructed with the aid of the family funds.For  the  first	 time before the High  Court  the  appellantraised a plea of limitation.  The learned Judges of the HighCourt  held that the suit was within time under Art. 120  ofthe  Limitation	 Act.	It  was	 also  for  the	 first	timecontended  that	 the respondent should be non-suited  as  hefailed	to claim a further relief within the meaning of	 theproviso	 to sub-s. (1) of s. 42 of the Specific Relief	Act.The  High Court negatived the said contentions.	 It  is	 notnecessary to notice the other points raised before the	HighCourt as they are not pressed before us.  In the result	 thedecree	of  the	 District  Judge  was  set  aside  and	 therespondent's suit was decreed.	Hence this appeal.The main point that arises for consideration is whether	 theplaint-schedule house is the property of the joint family orwhether	 it  was  built	 out  of  the  self-acquisitions  ofGovindprasad in respect whereof he executed the trust  deed.At  the outset the relevant and well-settled  principles  ofHindu Law may be briefly noticed.There is a presumption in Hindu Law that a family is  joint.There  can  be a division in status among the members  of  ajoint  Hindu  family  by  refinement  of  shares  which	  istechnically  called  "division	in  status",  or  an  actualdivision  among	 them by allotment of specific	property  toeach  one of them which is described as "division  by  metesand  bounds".  A member need. not receive any share  in	 thejoint  estate  but may renounce his  interest  therein,	 hisrenunciation merely extinguishes his interest in the  estatebut does not affect the status of the remaining members vis-a-vis the family property, A division260in  status can be effected by an unambiguous declaration  tobecome divided from the others and that intention   can	  beexpressed  by  any process.  Though  primafacie	 a  documentclearly	 expressing the intention to divide brings  about  adivision in status, it is open to a party to prove that	 thesaid document was a sham or a nominal one not intended to beacted  upon but was conceived and executed for	an  ulteriorpurpose.   But	there is no presumption that  any  property,whether	 movable or immovable, held by a member of, a  jointHindu  family,	is joint family property.  The	burden	liesupon  the person who asserts that a particular	property  isjoint  family property. to establish that fact.	 But  if  heproves	that there was sufficient joint family nucleus	fromand out of which the said property could have been acquired,the burden shifts to the member of the family setting up theclaim that it is his personal property to establish that thesaid property has been acquired without any assistance	fromthe joint family property.Bearing	 the  aforesaid	 principles in view,  we  shall	 nowproceed	 to  consider  the main issue in  the  appeal.	 Theappellant  naturally  relies upon the document of  1898,  insupport of her case that Govindprasad renounced his interestin  the	 joint	family	property in  the  year	1898.	Thatdocument  is  Ex.  D. 54-A, dated January 24, 1898,  and  isdescribed   as	 "  farkatnama	".   The   seven   brothers,Ganeshprasad,	 Ajodhyaprasad,	   Jankiprasad,	   Ratanlal,Mangalprasad,  Sarjooprasad and Ramchand, executed the	saidrelinquishment deed in favour of Govindprasad.	It is statedtherein as follows:"  ... we are not pulling together well in affairs  and	 youand we are not on good terms in family treatment.   III-willbetween you and us all brothers is consequently growing moreand  more  from	 day to-day.   Similarly,  as  (our)  fatherhimself	 involved all ancestral property into debt  and	 theremaining  movables  were partitioned by all  at  that	verytime,  no movable and immovable ancestral property  has	 nowremained.  Consequently, we all have to undergo trouble	 andsustain., loss in our business.			    261We,   therefore,   execute  this   pharkhatnama	  (deed	  ofrelinquishment)	 and hereby declare as follows:Each  brother	should	from this day enjoy  his  own  self-acquired property and that he may acquire with his  personalexertions-articles,  grain,  cash,  movable  and   immovableproperty,  so on and so forth.	One has no  connection	withanother,  of family relation in property,  transactions	 ...(torn), dealings and the like, of others.  Each should enjoyhis benefit and sustain his loss ... (torn) unless (we) givevoluntarily (some 'property) to your children and (you) givevoluntarily  (some property) to our children,  (they)  shallhave no manner of right against each other "."This  document	purports to have been signed  by  the  sevenbrothers.   If this deed is not a sham document, it  clearlybrings about a division of status between all the members ofthe  family.   It  also proves that  movables  were  dividedbetween	 the  brothers	at the time of the  death  of  theirfather,	 and  -that the joint  family  property,  presumablybecause it was heavily involved in debts, was not divided inmetes	and  bounds.   Exfacie	it  does  not  support	 theappellant's  version that Govindprasad alone separated	fromthe  joint family taking his share of movable properties  atthe  time  of  his  father's  death  and  relinquishing	 hisinterest in all the immovable properties of the family.	 Thefirst respondent attacks this document mainly on the  groundthat  this was a sham one brought into existence  after	 theyear  1912 as a part of a scheme to defraud  the  creditors.The  first circumstance relied upon is that  this  document,though it purports to bring about a division in status amongthe  members of the family and, according to the  appellant,amounts	 to a relinquishment of Govindprasad's	interest  inthe  extensive	joint family property, was  not	 registered.Doubtless an unregistered document can affect separation  instatus;	 but  Ramasahai	 and  his  sons	 were  carrying	  onextensive  businesses,	purchased  properties  in  differentplaces	and  in	 the  course of	 their	business  they	wereexecuting registered mortgage deeds.  The ostensible purposeof the execution of the document is34262alleged to be the intention of Govindprasad to free  himselffrom the family troubles caused by its involvement in  heavydebts	 and	to    eke    out    his	   livelihood	  bycarrying  on  a new business of his own.  It is	 not  likelythat  he would not have insisted upon a registered  documentto   achieve   that  purpose.	There  is   therefore	Somejustification  for this comment.  Secondly, if there  was  apartition  of the movable properties either at the  time  ofthe execution of the document or even earlier-a rich  familylike  that  of	Raniasabai must have  had  large  extent  ofmovables-the  details of that partition should have found  aplace  in  the	document.  The absence of  such	 details  isindicative  of	the fact that the document  was	 not  reallyintended  to  be  a formal  document  effecting	 a  divisionbetween the parties.This  document	did not see the light of day till  the	year1915,  when  Govindprasad,  for	 the  first  time,  made   areference  to it in Ex.	 D. 32, a registered  relinquishmentdeed  executed by him.	On September 7,	 1912,	Govindprasadexecuted  a  Will, Ex.	P. 1,  bequeathing  some  propertiesdescribed by him as his self-acquisitions.  In that Will  hestated thus:This  property	shown above is all my acquisition,  and	 theancestral  property is not included in this or	received  byme.   I	 too have not retained my right over  the  ancestralproperty."My father expired on 27-1-1897 A.D. From that time  withouttaking	any share in my father's property, I  have  acquiredthis   property	 by  solely  doing  business;  business	  ofrelations  are	not included in this nor have  I  joined  intheir business.	 Hence, nobody has any right to this.  "If  really  there was in existence on that  date  a  writtenrelinquishment	deed,  Ex.   D. 54, it is  not	likely	thatGovindprasad  would  not  have mentioned that  fact  in	 theformal	document he executed bequeathing his  property.	  Incontrast  with this recital, in the Will Ex. P. 2,  executedby him on May 1, 1919, the following recital is found:"...  I	 have  taken  no share at all  in  the	movable	 andimmovable property left by him, and263all  the  property  in my possession on my  earning  it.  isacquired   by  me,  and	 consequently,	my  brothers,	LalaGaneshprasad,  Jankiprasad  Ratanlal,  Ramchandra  and	-allother  brothers	 had  executed	a  pharkath-nama  (deed	  ofrelinquishment) in my favour on 24-1-1898 A.D. . . . "What  could be the reason for Govindprasad not referring  tothe  deed of relinquishment of the year 1898 in his Will  of1912,  but  thought fit to do so in his Will of 1919  ?	 Theonly  possible	explanation  is that in	 between  these	 twodocuments, another relinquishment deed, Ex.  D. 32, executedby  him on February 27, 1915, came into existence.  We	willhave to say more about this document at a later stage of ourjudgment.   This document, for the first time,	affirms	 therecitals of the earlier alleged relinquishment deed of	1898and  is	 also  registered.  It is  therefore  a	 permissibleinference  that Ex.  D. 54 might not have been in  existencebefore	Ex.  D. 32 was executed or, at any rate, before	 Ex.P. I was executed by Govindprasad.Reliance  is  also placed by the respondent on	the  allegeddiscrepancies between the particulars of partition given  inEx.   D-54 and Ex.  D-32.  But we do not find much force  inthis contention, as the argument cuts both ways.  If Ex.  D-54  was	 forged to support Ex.	D-32, there could  not	havebeen any room for introducing discrepancies between the	 twodocuments.   We	 find no such  irreconcilable  discrepanciesbetween the two documents and in substance the recitals	 aresimilar.The  respondent	 attacks  the genuineness of  Ex.   D-54  byattempting to establish that the signatures of Ajodhyaprasadand Mangalprasad were forged after their death.	 If this wasproved,	 this document might have come into  existence	onlyafter  1914, i.e., after Mangalprasad had passed  away.	  Onthe other hand, if Mangalprasad's signature was genuine, butAjodhyaprasad's	 signature was a forged one,  this  documentcould  have come into existence after 1912 but before  1914.The learned District Judge, disposed of this contention withthe following remarks:"  The expert examined the admitted signatures	on  documentexecuted in the years 1903 and 1904 while264the  disputed document was executed in the year	 1898.	 Theopinion	 of the expert does not carry conviction and is	 notcorroborated by circumstances.	The farkatnama was found  tobe genuine in the previous litigation."It  may be noticed that the learned District Judge  did	 notscrutinize  the	 signatures with the help  of  the  expert'sevidence, and has not expressed any considered view thereon.But  the High Court bestowed greater care on this aspect  ofthe  case,  as	it  should, for,  if  this  document  was  aforgery., it would go a long way to support the respondent'sversion.   The learned Judges of the High  Court  consideredthe  evidence  of  the	expert,	 scrutinized  the   impugnedsignature  of Ajodhyaprasad, compared it with  his  admittedsignatures  and agreed with the expert in holding  that	 thedisputed signature was not that of Ajodhyaprasad.  So far asMangalprasad's	signature was concerned, the learned  Judgeswere not able, on the evidence adduced, to hold that it	 wasnot his signature.  The expert was examined as P.W. 3. He ispractising as handwriting and finger-print expert in  Nagpursince 1937, and he also keeps a branch office in Bombay.  Hehas  examined the impugned signature of	 Ajodhyaprasad	withthe  latter's  admitted	 signatures found  in  the  mortgagedeeds,	Exs.  P-7 dated March 10, 1898, P-66 dated  November2,  1902, and P-6 dated June 25, 1904.	He has examined	 thedisputed signatures synthetically and analytically and founddifferences   in  the  pictorial  aspect  of  the   admittedsignatures  and	 the  disputed signature in  that  that	 theadmitted signatures are fluently scribed with no  hesitationand  with a flourish, whereas both the fluency and  flourishare  lacking  in  the  disputed	 signature.   Examining	 thesignatures analytically, he gives the following	 differencesbetween the impugned signature and the admitted signatures:(i) in the disputed signature the down strokes end  bluntly,whereas	  in   the  admitted  signatures,  they	  end	in'&flourishing  manner  with ticks to the right;  (ii)  in	 thedisputed  signature,  the down strokes have  a	tendency  tocurve in the centre quite differently from the down  strokesin the admitted signatures; (iii) in			    265the disputed signature there are dots after the letter "dha"in  "dhasthur"	instead	 of the usual dashes  found  in	 theadmitted  signatures;  (iv)  in the  admitted  signature  inspelling  the  name " Ajodhyaprasad " the  letters  "  Joo "have  been  used, whereas in the  disputed  signatures,	 theletters 'Jo " have been used; (v) in the disputed  signaturethere is uneven pen-pressure which is	not  found  in	 theadmitted signatures; (vi) there	   are over-writings in	 thedisputed signature; and (vii) there  is a marked  differencein  the	 formation  of letters between those  found  in	 theadmitted   signatures  and  those  found  in  the   disputedsignature.   The  credentials of this expert have  not	beenquestioned in the cross-examination.  Except suggesting someirrelevant  theories,  no  real attempt	 has  been  made  todiscredit this witness or demolish his factual	observationsor  his conclusions.  The appellant has not thought  fit  toexamine	 another  expert to contradict this  witness  or  toprove  her  case.   In the circumstances,  we  derive  greatassistance  from  the expert's evidence in  our	 attempt  tocompare	 for  ourselves	 the  disputed	signature  with	 theadmitted  signatures.  The learned Judges of the High  Courtalso  compared	the signatures with the help of	 a  powerfulmagnifying  glass.  Hidayatullah, J., as he then was,  givesthe results of his observation thus:"  To  begin  with  the pictorial  aspect  differs  in	manyrespects   and	 even  to  a  person  not  versed   in	 theidentification	of  handwritings  they would  appear  to  bedissimilar.   The  letter  formations  are  different;	 thestrokes and the little curls at the end of vertical  strokesare  all wrong.	 There is also a spelling  change.   Whereasthe  writer usually wrote ' joo', in the disputed  signaturethis has been changed to 'Joo'.	 This detracts somewhat fromthe force of this argument but the document Exhibit P-81  ismerely	a copy of a copy and we were unable to	compare	 thesignatures  as such.  The fact however remains that  barringthis solitary instance, the admitted signatures contain the'other spelling."Mudholkar, J., agreed with the observations of Hidayatullah,J. We must also give due weight to the266observations  of the learned Judges.  We have also  comparedthe impugned signature with the admitted signatures with thehelp  of  the expert's evidence, and	we are	inclined  toagree with the view of the expert and the learned Judges  ofthe  High Court.  The learned Counsel for the appellant	 hasnot  been able to place before us any material to compel  usto  take a view different from that of the High Court.	 We,therefore,  agree  with	 the High Court	 that  it  has	beenestablished that the impugned signature of Ajodhyaprasad  inEx.  D-54 is not his.  This conclusion lends strong  supportto  the respondent's version that Ex.  D-54 must  have	beenbrought	 into existence at a later stage when  Ajodhyaprasadwas no more.It  leads us to the consideration of Ex-D-32.  It  is  datedFebruary 27, 1915, and purports to be a relinquishment	deedexecuted   by	Ganeshprasad,  Jankiprasad,   Ratanlal	 andRamchaild  in  favour of Govindprasad.	 In  this  document,referring  to Ex.D-54 it is stated that the brothers  becameseparated on that date and that as the earlier document	 wasnot   registered,  they	 executed  a  fresh   document	 andregistered the same.  A recital is also made, persumably  toexplain	 the  conduct  of some of  the	brothers  in  livingtogether  and  having  a common mess, that  by	such  commonliving	they  should  not  be deemed  to  be  united.	Thisdocument,  as we have already indicated, is attacked on	 theground that it was part of a scheme of fraud and that it wasexecuted  only nominally to achieve the purpose of the	saidscheme.	 Our finding that the document of January 24,  1898,was  subsequently  got up after the death  of  Ajodhyaprasadundermines  to some extent the reality of  the	transaction.That apart, we shall further scrutinize with great care	 thesurrounding circumstances to unravel, if possible, the	truepurpose	 of  this  document.  It is  common  case  that	 themembers	 of the family had been executing nominal  documentssuch as mortgage deeds, sale deeds etc. in favour of  familyfriends to defeat or, at any rate, delay the creditors.	 Ourattempt,  therefore, will be to draw a real picture  of	 theattempted  scheme of fraud and to see whether this  documentwill fit into that picture.			    267We  have  already noticed that at the time of the  death  ofRamasahai  the	family was heavily indebted.   On  June	 12,1895, Ramasahai, Sitaram, Ganeshprasad and Mangalprasad	 hadexecuted  a mortgage deed in  favour of one Buty.   On March2,  1898,  the	said Buty filed Civil Suit  No.	 5  of	1898against the members of the joint family for recovery of	 theamount due under the mortgage and obtained a decree on	June16,  1900.  On August 25, 1897, Ajodhyaprasad, Ratanlal	 andGovindprasad  executed a mortgage deed, Ex.  P-81 in  favourof  Baliram  Hari Bokhare for a sum of Rs.2,400	 alleged  tohave been borrowed from him on the said date.  This documentwas  executed six months before Buty filed his suit  on	 hismortgage,  Nothing further was heard of this  mortgage.	  Inthe circunistances it may be assumed that the mortgage, deedwas  only a sham one brought into existence to	defraud	 thecreditors.     On   March   10,	  1898,	  Ganesh,    prasad,Ajodhyaprasad, Jankiprasad and Ratanlal executed a  mortgagedeed,  Ex.   P-7, in favour of one Hemraj for a sum  of	 Rs'2,000.	 Under this document, properties not covered by	 Ex.P-81  were  mortgaged.	There is nothing on record  to	showwhat  has happened to this mortgage and whether the  allegeddebt  was discharged.  This also appears to be another	shamtransaction.  On February t4, 1902, Ganeshprasad executed  amortgage  deed, Ex.  P-75, in favour of	 Sheoprasad:  thoughthis document is dated February 14, 1902, the stamp for	 thedocument  appears  to  have been  purchased  only  on  April27,1902.  This document appears to have been ante-dated	 forsome ulterior purpose.	On November 2, 1902, six of the Lalabrothers,  i.e., all except Govindprasad  and  Mangalprasad,executed  another  mortgage deed, Ex.  P-66,  in  favour  ofNarayanrao  Govindrao  Mahajan	for  a	sum  of	 Rs.   9,975mortgaging thereunder the family immovable properties.	 Forthis mortgage deed a stamp paper purchased on June 25, 1898,was  utilised.	 Again	on  February  26,  1903,  the	sameexecutants  executed  another mortgage deed,  Ex.  p-74,  infavour	of the said Narayanrao Govindrao Mahajan for a.	 sumof Rs. 10,000.	The stamp for this document was268purchased  on August 4, 1902.  Both the Exs.  P-66 and	P-74were  presented	 for registration on February 26,  1903	 butthey  were  registered on March 4, 1903. This delay  in	 theregistration  is  presumably for the reason  that  the	Lalabrothers  waited till the mortgagee executed  an  agreement,Ex.  P-7, dated March 3, 1903, in their favour.	 Under	thisagreement,  the mortgagee admitted that the  said  mortgageshad been paid up and he also undertook to execute a  written"  mortgage deed " and get the same registered at  any	timewhen  the mortgagors paid the full expenses in that  regard.This  agreement	 proves beyond any doubt that the  said	 twomortgages  in  favour of Narayanrao Govindrao  Mahajan	werecolourable  and sham transactions.  On June 25,	 1904,	fiveout  of	 the  six  executants,	Sariooprasad  having,	diedmeanwhile, executed a mortgage deed, Ex.  P-6, in favour  ofAwasarilal for a sum of Rs. 2,000 for payment to Hemraj.  Ithas already been noticed that there is no evidence on recordto show that Hemraj paid any amount and the record does	 notdisclose any further details in regard to this mortgage.  OnMay  26,  1908,	 Ganeshprasad,	Jankiprasad,  Ratanlal	 andRamchand  executed a mortgage deed, Ex.	 P-76, in favour  ofone Kasturchand Daga for a sum of Rs. 20,000.  The  documentdiscloses  that	 all the family properties  mortgaged  thereunder  were  purchased	in  execution in  the  name  of	 themortgagee  with the funds provided by him and that,  as	 thesaid  amount  was paid to him, the property was put  in	 thepossession of the mortgagors.  It may be reasonably inferredfrom this recital that the properties purchased in the	nameof  the	 said  Daga were mortgaged to him  for	the  amountsadvanced   by  him.   This  document  also  recognized	 theexistence of other mortgage debts due by the family to Daga.It may be mentioned that there is no dispute that the familywas  borrowing	moneys	from Daga.  This  document  was	 notexecut.	 ed by Ajodhyaprasad, but he attested it.   On	July31,   1914,  Ganeshprasad  and	Ratanlal  executed   anothermortgage deed, Ex.  P-73, in favour of Narayanrao  GovindraoMahajan for a sum of Rs. 18,925, being			    269the  amount  alleged  to  be due by  the  family  under	 tworegistered documents dated February 26, 1903.  This mortgagewas engrossed on a stamp paper purchased as early as January31,  1903, and was registered on November 23, 1914.   Beforethe registration of this document, the inortgagors  obtainedfrom  the  mortgagee a deed of agreement, Ex.	P-38,  datedOctober	 6,  1914, admitting that the said  mortgage  was  anominal one.  On June 18, 1915, Kasturchand Daga filed CivilSuit No. 1 of 1915 against the Lala brothers on the basis ofthe  mortgage  deed,  Ex.  P-76.  Three days  prior  to	 thefiling	of this suit i.e., on June 15,	1915,  Ganeshprasad,Ratanlal.   Jankiprasad and Ramchand executed the  followingthree sale-deeds: (i) sale-deed, Ex. P-9 dated February	 21,1915 in favour of Baliram Hari Bokhare conveying the  familyproperties   situated  at  Jubbulpore  and  Kamptee  for   aconsideration  of Rs. 9,500; (ii) sale-deed  dated  February21, 1915, Ex.  P-71, executed in favour of the said  BaliramHari Bokhare for a consideration of Rs. 9,250 in respect  ofproperties at Raipur and Kamptee: this document was executedon  a  stamp paper purchased on August 8,  1910;  and  (iii)sale-deed  dated  June	11, 1915, Ex.  P-70,  in  favour  ofNarayanrao  Govindrao  Mahajan for a  consideration  of	 Rs.10,000	conveying some property at Kamptee.  The said  threedocuments were registered on June 15, 1915, though they wereall purported to have been executed on different dates.	  OnJune  20, 1915, Narayanrao Govindrao Mahajan executed  threedocuments,  Exs.   P-10,  P-35 and P-36.   Ex.	P-10  is  anagreement executed by Naravanrao Govindrao Mahajan in favourof  the	 Lala  brothers,  whereunder  Narayanrao   GovindraoMahajan	 agreed	 to reconvey the property conveyed  to	him.Ex.  P-35 is a receipt given by Narayanrao Govindrao Mahajanto Lala brothers, wherein it is mentioned that it was agreedbetween	 them at the time of the execution of the  sale-deedthat  whenever the Lala brothers paid  Narayanrao  GovindraoMahajan	 the, amount of the sale-deed and interest  thereon,the latter would return the said property and would  executea  deed	 of reconveyance and that, as they have paid  him  atotal amount35270of  Rs. 11,200, he would execute the reconveyance  in  theirfavour.	  Ex.  P 36 of the same date is a Will	executed  bythe	  said	    Narayanrao	     Govindrao	     Mahajandirecting  his	heirs  to convey the property  to  the	Lalabrothers  in  case  he	died  without  executing  the	saiddocument.   It	is  not	 disputed  that	 the  grand-son	  ofNarayanrao  Govindrao  Mahajan did execute a  sale  deed  infavour	of two members of the Lala brother's family and	 thesame was given to Kasturchand Daga in discharge of his debt.The  learned District Judge, and, on appeal, the High  Courtheld  that the said saledeeds were nominal transactions	 andthe   appellant	 did  not,  and	 could	not,  question	 thecorrectness of the facts found by them.The  two  sale-deeds   executed in favour  of  Baliram	HariBokhare	 for  a total sum of Rs. 19,425, alleged to  be	 theamount	due under earlier mortgages executed in	 his  favourare  also  colourable transactions; for, on  July  1,  1915,Baliram	       Hari Bokhare executed Exs.  P-11, P-33 and P-34-under  Ex.	P-11 he agreed to  reconvey  the  propertiescovered	 by  the sale deeds if the said amount was  paid  tohim;.  Ex.  P-33 is a receipt given by Baliram Hari  Bokhareto  the Lala brothers acknowledging the receipt of the	saidamount and there is a recital in the document that he  wouldreconvey the said property to the Lala brothers; and Ex.  P-34 is a Will executed by Baliram Hari Bokhare directing	 hisheirs to transfer the said property to the Lala brothers  incase  lie  died	 before transferring the same  to  the	saidbrothers.  It is, therefore, seen that the same pattern	 wasfollowed  by the Lala brothers in the case of the two  sale-deeds  executed by them in favour of Baliram  Hari  Bokhare.It is said that the three sale-deeds exhausted the  family'sunencumbered  immovable properties and there can  hardly  beany doubt that the three documents were executed to  preventthe  decree-holder  in	Civil  Suit  No.  1  of	 1915,	fromproceeding  against  them  after  exhausting  the   mortgageproperties.  Both the District Judge and the High Court heldthat  these  documents	were collusive; and,  on  the  factsnoticed, their finding is correct.			    271The  contesting respondent's case is that the farkatnama  ofFebruary  27,  1915, was also executed as part of  the	saidscheme	to preserve the cash and the movables of the  familyfor  itself.  The nominal sale-deeds executed in  favour  ofNarayanrao Govindrao Mahajan and Baliram Hari Bokhare  mightbe  used  to screen the family's immovable  properties	frombeing proceeded against in execution of the decree  obtainedagainst	 them, but could not prevent the decree-holder	fromproceeding  against the family's movables and cash.   It  issaid  that  the said farkatnama was intended  to  plug	thisloophole  in  the scheme of fraud.  This document  also	 wasregistered  on	the  date  when	 the  other  documents	wereregistered.  There is no acceptable reason why this documentshould	have been executed and registered on the  same	datewhen  admittedly colourable documents were executed  by	 thefamily,	 if it was not intended to support the same  design.The appellant suggests that the coincidence in dates was notdecisive  of  the question raised; for, it might  well	havebeen  that Govindprasad realising the danger which  promptedhis  brothers to resort to fraudulent transactions  insistedupon  them to reaffirm the earlier transaction to avert	 thesame  danger  to  his  self-acquisitions.   This  may  be  aplausible  contention,	but  in	 the  context  of  the	thenexisting  circumstances	 it  does not  appeal  to  us.	 Thecreditors' possible threat to proceed against Govindprasad'salleged self-acquisitions on the ground that they were	partof  the joint family property had always been  there.	Whathad  happened  was  that instead of Buty,  Daga	 become	 thecreditor.  There is, therefore, no reason why the  tell-taledate was fixed for the execution of Ex.	 D-32, if it was notintended  to  be  a  prop to the  common  design  of  fraud.Further,  it  became necessary to put back the date  of	 thealleged division in status to 1898, i.e., to a date prior tothe  filing  of the suit by the creditor  Buty	against	 thefamily on March 2, 1898, to meet the possible argument	thatthe claim could be traced back to that of Buty and thereforethe  alleged partition could not affect the claim  of  Daga.Ex.  D-32 purports to be a272confirmation  of the farkatnama dated January 24, 1898.	  Wehave  already held that the said document was an  ante-datedone  and  that	the signature of  Ajodhyaprasad	 was  forgedtherein.  If so, it follows that Ex.  D-32 is another-	linkin the chain of fraud perpetrated by the family.To  summarize: the family had joint business  and  extensiveproperties  as well as heavy debts at the time of the  deathof Ramasahai on January 24, 1897.  After Ramasahai's  death,the family creditor, Buty, filed a suit against the  membersof  the family to enforce his mortgage.	 In the	 year  1898,the  members  of the family executed  nominal  mortgages  infavour of Hemraj, Narayanrao Govindrao Mahajan and ChunnilalSonar,	and when some of the family properties were  broughtto  sale in execution of the decree obtained by	 Buty,	theywere purchased by Kasturchand Daga benami for the members ofthe family, and some of the members of the family executed amortgage deed on May 26, 1908, for the sale price in  favourof  the said Daga.  The said Daga filed Civil Suit No. 1  of1915 against the family to enforce the mortgage, on June 18,1915.	Three days before the filing of this suit, i.e.,  onJune  15, 1915,. the brothers brought into  existence  threenominal sale-deeds-two in favour of Baliram Hari Bokhare andanother	 in  favour of Narayanrao  Govindrao  Mahajan-and  arelinquishment	deed in favour of Govindprasad; and all	 thedocuments  were registered on the same day.  Three  of	themwere admittedly nominal documents and the fourth, viz.,	 therelinquishment	deed, has been proved to be another  nominaldocument.   The said facts disclose an integrated scheme  offraud and it is not possible in the circumstances to  singleout  therefrom	Ex.  D-32 and hold that it is  a  bona	fidetransaction;  on the other hand, the  circumstances  alreadynarrated by us indicate beyond any reasonable doubt that thesaid document is also a part of that scheme and intended  toprotect the cash and movables of the family.The appellant relies upon the Wills executed by Govindprasadin 1912, 1919, 1920, 1926 and 1930 to establish that he	 wasdivided from the family, and			    273that   he  was	treating  some	properties  as	 his   self-acquisitions.	If, as we have held, neither Ex.   D-54	 norEx-D-32 effected a severance of Govindprasad from the  jointfamily,	 the  said  documents would  not  carry	 the  matterfurther;  for the Wills were based upon the assertions	madeby  Govindprasad  that he was separated from his  family  in1898  and  that the properties he was bequeathing  were	 hisself-acquistions.   As	we  have  held	that  there  was  noseverance  of  the joint family, the  evidentiary  value  ofthese  documents  must be rejected on the ground  that	theywere  further attempts on the part of the family to keep  upthe appearance consistent with the alleged partition.We now come to the consideration of the main document in thecase, namely, the trust deed dated February 17, 1916.  It ismarked	as  Ex.	 D-12.	It purports to be a  deed  of  trustexecuted by Govindprasad in favour of his nephew Chandanlal,the  natural son of his brother Ratanlal and adopted son  ofhis another brother Ajodhyaprasad, and his niece, Rukhmabai,the daughter of his eldest brother Ganeshprasad.  Under thisdocument  Rs. 15,000 was set up for the said  beneficiaries,who  were  minors  at  that time.   Kasheo  Rao	 Laxman	 RaoAurangabadkar,	Gujalal, Davidin, Mahadeo, and	Govindprasadwere  appointed	 trustees.  The document directed  that	 thetrustees  should carry on the management of the trust  moneyand  that they should make over the money to the  minors  ontheir  attaining  majority.   They  were  also	directed  toconstruct a building or buy a land which might bring in goodrent  and to reserve one-fourth for themselves for  expensesof  the	 building or the land, as the case may	be,  and  todistribute  the the remaining three-fourths in equal  sharesto  the	 two beneficiaries.  Alternatively, they  were	alsodirected  to carry on a business with the said,	 amount	 anddistribute  the	 income therefrom to  the  beneficiaries  inequal shares.  The first question that occurs to one is, whydid  Govindprasad execute the trust, deed if  his  intentionwas  to	 give a sum of Rs. 15,000 to his nephew	 and  niece;for, he could have easily achieved,274that  purpose by executing a Will or a	settlement  deed,andduring his life time by giving them the income therefrom  inequal	  shares.      The    amount	set	apart	  iscomparatively  small and is surprising that he	should	haveappointed   five  trustees  for	 implementing	the   trust.Secondly, the trust deed itself refers to the earlier  deedsof relinquishment and we have already held that the said twodeeds were colourable transactions.  The trustees  appointedwere the agents of the family.	Ex.  P-72 dated September 9,1913,  the General Power of Attorney, shows that two of	 thetrustees, Kasheo Rao Laxman Rao and Davidin were the  familyagents	of  the Lala brothers.	Ex.  P-38 dated	 October  6,1914,  indicates  that	Kasheo Rao Laxman Rao,	one  of	 thetrustees,  attested the said document whereunder  NarayanraoGovindrao Mahajan declared that the, mortgage deed  executedin   his  favour  by  the  Lala	 brothers  was	 a   nominaltransaction.  This shows that Kasheo Rao Laxman Rao was	 oneof  the	 close associates of the members of  the  family  inexecuting the fraudulent documents.  Mahadeo is the brother-in-law	of  Babulal, a servant of Ganeshprasad, who  is	 thefather	of Rukhmabai, the appellant.  The fact that most  ofthe  trustees were either the agents or the servants of	 thefamily	is  also  a circumstance,  though  not.	 conclusive,against the version of the appellant.  Two minor members  ofthe family were selected for the bequest; though  ordinarilyit   may  not  have  any  significance,	 in   the   peculiarcircumstances  of the case, this fits in the general  schemeof fraud perpetrated by the family.  What is more, the trustcomes  to  an  abrupt end.  Ex.	 D-3 is	 the  deposition  ofGovindprasad  in  Civil Suit No. 204 of 1931.	Therein	 he-describes how the trust deed was implemented and how it cameto  an	end.  He says that for building the house  the	siteopposite Cotton Market at Nagpur was acquired from  Babulal,and Rs. 10,000 out of the sum of Rs. 15,000 was utilised forbuilding the house and Rs. 5,000 was given to Babulal by thetrustees  as  loan.  The -trustees demanded Rs.	 5,000	morefrom him, but he gave them only Rs. 2,500 and another sum ofRs. 2,500 was given to them by Sheoshankar, the			    275husband	 of the appellant.  The trust was dissolved in	1921and  after that he commenced to construct the second  storeyand  completed	it  with  a sum of  Rs.	 6,000	returned  byBabulal.  This evidence proves that the trust was put to  anend  even  before  the	completion  of	the  building,	 andGovindprasad  completed	 the  construction.   This   conductindicates  that	 no distinction was made between  the  trustproperty and his own property, and that, though a registereddocument had been executed, he was able to put to an end  tothe trust when he chose to do so.  Ex.	D-30 is the copy  ofthe  proceedings  from	the Proceeding	Book  filed  by	 thetrustees in Civil Suit No. 55 of 1929.	Therein Govindprasadsays that Chandanlal and Rukmabai became majors and,  thoughhe  wanted to make over the building to them, they  did	 notlike to take it and agreed to have it left with him so	longas he was alive and that, as Davidin left the place, Gajulalpassed	away,  Mahadeo had gone to another  district  for  aservice	 and  Kasheo  Rao  was	unwilling  to  take  furtherresponsibility, he had taken over the building according  tothe   wishes  of  his  nephew  and  niece.   This   labouredexplanation  also  demonstrates the nominal  nature  of	 thetrust deed.  Ex.  D-35 is a Power of Attorney dated  January26, 1921, executed by Rukhmabai and Chandanlal in favour  ofGovindprasad.  In that document both of them, who had becomemajors declared that they could not manage the property	 andtherefore  they	 appointed Govindprasad as their  agent	 andauthorized  him to manage the property and act for  them  inthe courts.  Whatever might be the reason, the said documentshows  that the property was taken back by Govindprasad	 andthere is nothing on record to show that any benefit from thetrust  reached the hands of either Chandanlal or  Rukhmabai.This  conduct of Govindprasad also fits in with the  generalscheme of colourable transactions: and the property in	factcontinued to be the joint family property.There is also positive evidence, both documentary and  oral,to  prove  that the brothers, including	 Govindprasad,	wereliving an members of a joint Hindu276family.	 Ex.  P-63-A is a letter written by Ganesh prasad toChandanlal.   This  letter is not dated, but it	 appears  tohave been written in or about the year 1926. In this  letterGaneshprasad points out:" I have so far helped all my brothers upto this  day	 andhave  been  helping  them so far as  possible  in  spite  ofexperiencing such great miseries.  What should I do ? Had  Ithought of passing my time by living separate, it could havebeen  done  in a good way; I would have not fallen  in	suchdifficulties.  With all this you are seeing how memberji  iscausing	 different troubles.  Whatever I have done,  I	havedone with my earnings; I have given to my men family."In unravelling a fraud committed jointly by the members of afamily, only such letters that passed inter se between	themcan  give  the clue to the truth.  This	 letter	 shows	thatnotwithstanding the assertions of the family to the contraryto  suit  a  particular occasion, they	were  really  livingtogether  as  members  of  a  joint  family  and  the  wholeresponsibility	of the conduct of the affairs of the  familywas  taken  by	the eldest member of it.  Ex.	P-  5  datedJanuary	 21,  1922,  is a public notice	 given	by  all	 themembers of the family and published in " The Maharastra " onJanuary	 25,  1922.  Therein they asserted  that  in  Nagpur'City  they  owned an ancestral property,  consisting  of  ahouse, vacant land and a pacca well, constructed with stonesfor  drinking water for the public, and that Mt. Deoka	Bai,W/O  Sitaram Lala Kalar had no right to sell the  same.	  IfGovindprasad had separated himself from the family, as it isnow  contended, he would not have joined in the	 issuing  ofthis public notice, for, in that event he would not have hadany interest in the ancestral property.	 Ex.  P-59 is a copyof the application made by Govindprasad to the Secretary  ofState  for  India  on May 19,  1922.   In  that	 applicationGovindprasad states:"  I  have now to mention that for the long  standing  threeyears, i.e., 1920-21, 1921-22, and the remaining nine monthsof 1922, 1 have undergone and			    277have  to  undergo  a serious loss  of  about  rupees  twentythousand   which  is  heavy  and  unbearable  to  meet	 theGovernment   Revenue  and  to  maintain	 my   large   familyconsisting of twenty-five (25) members."Govindprasad alone could not have lost so much amount in hisindividual  business.  What is more, he had no children	 andso  his	 family of twenty five members must  have  referenceonly to the members of the joint family.There is also the evidence of P.Ws. 12,/ 13 and 14, who	 arethe  common  relatives	of  both  the  parties.	  P.W.	 12,Bhagwandas, is the brother of Lala Chotelal, the husband  ofTarabai, daughter of Ramasahai.	 He has been acquainted withthe  affairs of the family for about 30 years,	i.e.,  sincethe  time  his	brother	 was married to	 Tara  Bai.   He  ispositive that Govindprasad used to live either at Kamptee orNagpur	in the family house and that all the  brothers	werekeeping	 account books jointly.	 P.W. 13, Lala Sadanand,  isthe brother of Mangalprasad's wife.  He says that his sistermarried	 Mangalprasad in 1896 or 1897 and his  knowledge  ofthe  family, therefore, went back to that year.	 He  assertsthat  the  sons of Ramasahai were members of a	joint  Hindufamily and that their excise contracts were also joint,	 andthat  none of the brothers had separate trade  or  property.P.W.  14,  Lala	 Sitaram's son	was  married  to  Ratanlal'sdaughter  about 25 years before the date of his	 giving	 theevidence.   He	supports the evidence of P. Ws. 12  and	 13.Nothing has been elicited in the course of cross-examinationof  any	 of  these witnesses which would  detract  from	 theweight	of their evidence.  They are natural  witnesses	 whocould  with  authority speak to the affairs of	the  family.The oral evidence adduced by the plaintiff also	 establishesthat there was no partition among the members of the family.We, shall now briefly notice the admissions alleged to	havebeen  made by one or other members of the  family  acceptingthe  partition.	  In this context, the observations  of	 theJudicial Committee in Alluri Venkatapathi36278Raju v. Dantuluri Venkatanarasimha Raju (1) are apt and theyread:  It  sometimes happens that  persons  make  statementswhich serve their purpose, or proceed upon ignorance of	 thetrue  position;	 and it is not their statements,  but  theirrelations  with	 the  estate, which  should  be	 taken	intoconsideration in determinining the issue."The  issue in that case, as it is in the present  case,	 waswhether one of the members of a joint Hindu family separatedhimself	 from the others by renouncing his interest  in	 thejoint family property.Exhibit	 49 is the rejoinder filed by Lala  Laxminarayan  inCivil  Suit No. 260 of 1931 filed against  Sheoshankar,	 thehusband	 of  the  appellant.  Therein  he  stated  that	 themembers of the family separated from time to time -and	thatthe last but one group that remained joint was the one 'Withfour  brothers	and  the very last was	with  two  brothers,Ganeshprasad  and Ratanlal and that after the death  of	 thetwo  brothers he (Lala Laxminarayan) was the only  survivor.It is obvious that the said statement was made to serve	 hispurpose in that suit and support his claim therein.  Ex.  D-11  is an application dated November 10, 1938, made by	LalaLaxminarayan   to  the	Deputy	Commissioner,  Nagpur,	 forexemption from furnishing security at Excise Sales.  Thereinhe alleged that Lala Ratanlal owned and possessed  immovableand movable properties worth about a lakli of rupees,  whichon  his	 death devolved on his son, the	 applicant  therein,that  all the said properties were held by the applicant  inhis  own right as the sole owner thereof and that he was  inuninterrupted possession of the same since the death of	 hisfather.	 He also alleged that the business was inherited  bythe members of the family in 1890 and that he had been doingthe  business  of his forefathers since the year  1927.	  Inthis  document	Laxminarayan  did not set  up  any  case  ofpartition  in  1898; but it is pointed out that he  did	 notinclude the trust property in the schedule attached to	thatapplication.   The  object of that application was  to	showthat he owned(1)  (1935-36) L.R. 63 I.A. 397, 406.			    279large extent of properties, and the fact that he had omittedsome  items  of property would not establish that  the	saiditems  were not joint family properties.  That question	 hasto  be	considered on other evidence. Lala La  But  what  isimportant in Ex.  D- 1 1 is his assertion that there was  nopartition  in the family.  If we do not place much  relianceon Ex.	D-11, we should also, for the same reason, not placemuch value on the assertions made in Ex.  D-49.	 Exs.	D-49and D- 11 show that the plaintiff was making -assertions  tosuit   his  purpose.   Ex.   D-56  is  the   deposition	  ofJankiprasad  in	 Civil	Suit No. 260 of	 1931.	 Therein  hestated	that  the  defendants were  all	 brothers  but	weredivided.  That was a suit filed by Kasturchand Daga  againstsome of the brothers and, perhaps, Jankiprasad thought	thatit  was necessary to assert separation so that some of	the,family	properties,  other than those  mortgaged,  might  besalvaged.   The same Jankiprasad, in Ex. P-80,	asserted  tothe contrary.  In that exhibit he stated that the farkatnamawas  cancelled by him by notice to Govindprasad and that  heand  Govindprasad continued to have common food.  The  claimof the creditor, Kasturchand Daga, who sought to attach	 thetrust  property	 along	with other  family  properties,	 wassettled	 and some of the family properties were sold to	 himunder  Ex.   P-24 in discharge of his claim.  On  the  sale-deed, Govindprasad made the following endorsement:" As I have been living separate for a number of years	fromall  the  members  of the family, I have no  right  to	thisproperty and no objection to its sale." This endorsement  isentirely consistent with the case of the respondent that theproperties in the hands of Govindprasad were intended to  bepreserved by this compromise.  That statement must have beenmade  to  strengthen  the case of the  family.	 These	con-tradictory  statements were made by one or other members  ofthe  family  to meet a particular contingency or to  get  anadvantage, and, therefore, these cannot be of much value andthe case really falls to be decided not on such	 statements,but  on- the basis of the relations of the  various  partieswith the estate.280From the aforesaid evidence, we must hold that there was  noseverance  in  the  joint family of Govind  prasad  and	 hisbrothers     and     that    they    continued	   to	  bejoint,	doing joint business, that all of  them	 collusivelybrought	   into	  existence   documents,    including	 therelinquishment	 deeds,	  to   tide   over   the   financialdifficulties in which they were involved.On  the	 basis	of the finding	that  Govindprasad  did	 notrelinquish  his share in the joint family, but continued  tobe  its member, the next question is whether the sum of	 Rs.15,000,	 in respect whereof the trust deed was -executed  byGovindprasad and the moneys spent to put up the suit  house,came  out  of the selfacquisitions  of	Govindprasad.	Thisquestion  we must approach on the basis of our finding	thatGovindprasad  continued	 to be a member of the	joint  Hindufamily	until his death.  The initial burden is no doubt  onthe  contesting respondent to prove that the trust  propertyis  part  of  the  joint family	 property;  but	 if  it	 wasestablished  that there was sufficient nucleus from or	withthe aid of which the property could have been acquired,	 theburden	shifts	to  the	 appellant.   The  first   question,therefore,  is	whether	 the  joint  family  had  sufficientproperty or income out of which Govindprasad could have	 putaside  Rs. 15,000, under the trust deed and also could	haveadvanced  other amounts for constructing the  building.	  Wehave  already  noticed at an earlier stage of  the  Judgmentthat  the family owned extensive properties  distributed  atdifferent  places.   Ex. 9-D-8 is a copy  of  the  ValuationRegister for 1923 in Civil Suit No. 260 of 1931.  There	 theannual income from one of the liquor shops, Lala Bada LiquorShop, from the year 1919 to 1923 is given.  The licence	 wasfor  Rs. 15,000.  The profit for 1919-20 was Rs.  1329;	 for1920  21 was Rs. 14,152; for 1921-22 was Rs. 185;  for	1922was Rs. 7,650; and for 1923 was Rs. 5,140.  Ex. 9-D-7 is thecopy of the Valuation Register for 1924 in the same suit  inrespect of Janajail Liquor Shop, Nagpur.  It shows that	 theprofit	for the year 1919-20 was Rs. 1,486; for 1920-21	 wasRs.  8,814; for 1921-22 was Rs. 1,779; and for	1922-23	 wasRs. 3,837.  Ex.	 P-77 is a security bond			    281executed  by  the  members  of	the  family  in	 favour	  ofKasturchand  Daga.   It	 shows that security  was  given  inconnection with the contract taken by the family in the nameof  Lala Ratanlal for retail dealing in liquor in  differentshops at Karnptee and Nagpur during the years 1906 and 1907.In  that connection Ratanlal deposited a sum of Rs.  54,700.These  three  documents	 show  the  extensive  business	 themembers	 of  the family were doing-in liquor.	Indeed,	 thelearned Counsel for the appellant does not dispute the	factthat  the family was in a position to give Govindprasad	 theamount covered by the trust deed and that spent for the con-struction  of the building.  If so, the question is  whetherthe  appellant	has proved that Govindprasad paid  the	saidamounts	  from	and  out  of  his   self-acquisitions.	  IfGovindprasad  had  a business of his own, he must  have	 hadaccounts,  but no such accounts were  forthcoming.   Summonswas served on Tuljabai, the wife of Ganeshprasad and  motherof  Rukhmabai, for producing the account books of  the	Lalabrothers  from the year 1897 to 1928, but no  accounts	wereproduced  except  Ex.  D-22, which is an  extract  from	 theaccounts of Ganeshprasad covering a period of only one monthof the year 1927.  This extract does not help either  party.It  may, therefore, be held that the accounts,	which  couldhave thrown some light on the sources from which Rs. 15,000,was  drawn  by	Govindprasad and  the  further	amounts	 forbuilding the house were supplied, were not filed.D.W.  I is one Jainarayan, who was a member  of	 LegislativeCouncil	 of  the State from 1930 to 1936.   He	states	thatGovindprasad  was  doing  business in  shares  and  also  inmoneylending, that he had his own account books; that beforegoing  to Jabalpore he took away all his account books,	 andthat  he  (the witness) may still have one  or	two  accountbooks  of  Govindprasad	 with him.   This  witness  did	 notproduce	 any  account  books.  Rukhmabai also  says  in	 herevidence  that the account books of Govindprasad  were	withhim but she could not say whether they were at Nagpur or  atKamptee.  But Govindprasad in his deposition made on October23, 1932, in Civil282Suit  No. 204 of 1931 stated that he had no regular  accountbooks  showing his income or expenditure, but he had only  asort  of note book and that was not in his possession  then.If Govindprasad was doing business on a large scale, as	 theappellant  asked  us to believe, he must  have	had  accountbooks.	 If we accept the statement of Govindprasad that  hehad  no account books, it shows that he could not  have	 hadany extensive business; on the other hand, if we accept	 theevidence of D. W. 1 and Rukhmabai that he had account books,it  was not explained why they were not produced.The  only  direct  evidence in regard  to  Rs.	15,000,	 thesubject-matter	of the trust deed, and the moneys spent	 forbuilding  the house, is that of Govindprasad in the  earliersuit,  viz.,  Civil Suit No. 204 of 1931, and  it  has	beenmarked as Ex.  D-3.  He has stated therein that he had	somedeposits in banks and that out of affection he set apart Rs.15,000 for his nephew and niece and executed a trust deed inrespect of that sum. He adds that out of the said sum of Rs.15,000,	 Rs.  10,000 was spent in purchasing the  site	fromBabulal	 and  for  constructing a part	of  the	 suit  housethereon,  and the balance of Rs. 5,000 was given to  Babulalas loan.  He further stated that the trust was dissolved  in1921  and that thereafter he spent another sum of Rs.  6,000out  of his own pocket in addition to the sum of  Rs.  6,000returned  by  Babulal for completing the building  and	thatSheoshankar, the husband of the appellant spent Rs. 2,500 inconnection  with the building; but in the  cross-examinationhe admitted that he bad no shop for gold and silver and thatlie  used to do business in a small scale.  He gave  evasiveanswers	 when he was asked whether the first  defendant	 wasmanaging  the  liquor  shop in dispute ;  he  did  not	knowwhether	 the  defendant	 was managing  the  liquor  shop  indispute, he did not remember the year in which the shop	 wasopened in the suit building; he could not say when the	shopwas  discontinued;  he,	 admitted that	he  had	 no  regularaccount books showing his income or expenditure.  Though  hesaid  that he had a sort of note book, he said that  he	 wasnot in			    283possession  of	it  then.  Though  he  said  in	 examinationin-chief  that he spent Rs. 6,000 for the building,  had  toadmit  in the cross-examination that the said money was	 notwithdrawn  from	 any  bank.   He  also	admitted  that	 thematerials were bought by Ganeshprasad and Ratanlal and	thathe  did not know when they purchased them.  The evidence  ofGovindprasad clearly establishes that he was merely  lendinghis name for the family and that the amounts were spent fromthe  family coffer,-, under the supervision of one or  othermembers of the family.	Ex.  P-62-A is a copy of the  letterwritten by Ganeshprasad to Babulal in the year	1922-Babulalwas   acting   as  the	agent  of   Ganeshprasad.    ThereinGaneshprasad complaints that large amounts had already	beenspent but the upper portion of the building had not yet beenconstructed.   Though it is suggested that Ganeshprasad	 wasconstructing some other building,in the year 1922, there is-nothing	 on  record  to support that  theory.	Babulal	 wascertainly connected with the suit building and the referencein  the	 said document must be to the suit  building.	Thisletter also shows that Ganeshprasad, presumably on behalf ofthe  family, was giving moneys for the construction  of	 thebuilding.   Ex.	  P-60-1-A  is	another	 letter	 written  byGaneshprasad to Babulal.  Therein Ganeshprasad gave specificdirection  in  regard to the construction of  the  building.The  building  referred to in this letter also must  be	 thesuit building.Exs.   D-63  to	 D-96  are  the	 receipts  for	the  amountsdisbursed  in connection with the construction of  the	suitbuilding.   Govindprasad states in Ex.	D-3 that he used  tohand over the money to his brother Ganeshprasad or  Ratanlalfor disbursement.  This lame explanation cannot explain awaythe  fact that the moneys were spent and receipts  taken  bythe  other members of the family in regard to the  construc-tion of the house'Then remains the oral evidence of P.Ws. 4, 5, 9 and 13,	 whowere some of the contractors connected with the constructionof  the	 house	and they say  that  either  Ganeshprasad  orRatanlal asked them to do the work and paid them the amountsclue to them.  Their284evidence   is  consistent  with	 the  evidence	 of   Govindprasad	in Ex.	D-3.  They are disinterested  witnesses	 andtheir  evidence can safely be accepted.	 There is  also	 theevidence that the family liquor shop was     located in	 thesuit  building and that must be so because it was  built  bythe family.The  foregoing	discussion of the evidence  brings  out	 thefollowing  facts: (i) the family had extensive business	 andwas  in a position to purchase the land and build  the	suithouse;	(ii)  there  is no reliable evidence  to  show	thatGovindprasad  had separate income from which he	 could	haveset apart Rs. 15,000 and paid an additional sum of Rs. 6,000for  building  the  house;  (iii)  there  is  evidence	thatGaneshprasad and Ratanlal supervised the construction of thebuilding,  paid the contractors and had taken receipts	fromthem;  and  (iv) though the trustees under  the	 trust	deedpretended  to function thereunder, they were the  agents  ofthe family and the trust was abruptly put an end to in 1921.On  the	 said facts it must be held that the  appellant	 hasfailed to prove that Govindprasad had self-acquisitions	 andthe suit site was purchased and the building put up  thereonwith the private funds of Govindprasad.Before we close this aspect of the case, the conduct of	 therespondent  in not questioning the trust deed from  1916  to1940,  when  he filed the suit, requires  some	explanation.The contesting respondent was a minor.	Even after he becomea  major,  he could not have had any grievance	because	 thetrust  deed was executed for the benefit of the family.	  Itis in evidence that Ratanlal, his father, was living in	 thehouse  till  his  death in the year 1926.   It	is  also  inevidence  that	he was residing in the house from  the	year1936.	 It  is	 true  that  when  the	litigation   betweenRukhinabai  and	 Chandanlal was being conducted he  did	 notintervene;  that may be because Chandanlal was	his  naturalbrother	 and  he might not have thought fit to	set  up	 anyclaim  against his brother.  His conduct, therefore, is	 notsuch  as to give rise to any inference that the	 trust	deedwas  executed  in  regard  to  Govindprasad's  self-acquiredincome,			    285To summarize: There was no separation of the members of	 thefamily: all the members of the family continued to be  jointand the family was doing business in different places.	Theyhad  extensive	properties and a fairly large  income:	theywere  also  heavily indebted.  The family  was	involved  indebts in Ramasahai's life time and even after his death	 theposition  continued to be the same.  Various  attempts	weremade  to  salvage the properties of the family and  to	keepboth the movable and immovable properties not mortgaged fromthe  reach  of	the creditors.	 The  relinquishment  deeds,innumerable  mortgages, sale deeds and the trust  deed	wereall  executed as parts of the same scheme.   We,  therefore,hold  that the suit property was the joint  family  propertyand  the  respondent is entitled to the declaration  he	 hasasked  for,  namely, that the trust deed dated	January	 17,1916, was a colourable and fictitious document and could notaffect	the respondent's right to ownership of the  propertyin the suit.The  next  question raised by the learned  Counsel  for	 theappellant  is  that the suit should have been  dismissed  inlimine as the plaintiff asked for a bare declaration  thoughhe  was in a position to ask for further relief	 within	 themeaning of s. 42 of the Specific Relief Act.  The proviso tos. 42 of the said Act enacts that " no Court shall make	 anysuch  declaration  when the plaintiff, being  able  to	seekfurther relief than a mere declaration of title, omits to doso."  It is a well-settled rule of practice not	 to  dismisssuits  automatically  but  to allow the	 plaintiff  to	makenecessary  amendment  if  he seeks to do  so.	The  learnedCounsel	 for the appellant contends that in the	 plaint	 thecause  of action for the relief of declaration was given  asthe   execution	  of  the  partition  decree   through	 theCommissioner  appointed	 by the Court  and,  therefore,	 theplaintiff  should  have	 asked for  a  permanent  injunctionrestraining   the  appellant  from  interfering	  with	 hispossession.   The  appellant did not take this plea  in	 thewritten	 statement;  nor  was there  any  issue	 in  respectthereof,  though  as many as 12 issues were  raised  on	 thepleadings; nor does37286the judgment of the learned District Judge disclose that theappellant raised any such plea.	 For the first	  time	 theplea based on s. 42 of the Specific Relief   Act  was raisedbefore	the High Court, and even then the argument  advancedwas  that the consequential relief should have been one	 forpartition  : the High Court rejected the contention  on	 theground that the plaintiff, being in possession of the  jointfamily	property, was not bound to ask for partition  if  hedid  not  have the intention to separate  himself  from	 theother  members of the family.  It is not necessary  in	thiscase  to  express our opinion on the  question	whether	 theconsequential  relief should have been asked for; for,	thisquestion  should have been raised at the earliest  point  oftime,  in  which event the plaintiff could  have  asked	 fornecessary  amendment to comply with the provisions of s.  42of the Specific Relief Act.  In the circumstance, we are notjustified in allowing the appellant to raise the plea beforeus.This  leaves  us with the only surviving  question,  namely,whether	 the suit was barred by limitation.  This point	 wasraised	for  the first time in the High Court and  the	HighCourt  allowed	the  same to be	 raised	 but  negatived	 thecontention.  The learned Counsel for the respondent contendsthat, for the reasons mentioned in regard to the plea  basedupon  s. 42 of the Specific Relief Act, we should  also	 notallow  the appellant to raise this contention  either.	 Butthere	is   an	 essential  distinction	 between   the	 twocontentions; while in the former case, if the contention wasallowed	 to be raised, the, respondent would be	 prejudiced,in  the	 latter	 case, even if this plea was  taken  at	 theearliest point of time, the contesting respondent would	 nothave adduced better evidence or put before the Court furtherevidence.  When the Court asked the learned Counsel to statewhat  further facts he would have proved in respect of	thisplea  if this contention was taken earlier, he was not	ableto  suggest any.  In the circumstances, when  the  appellateCourt allowed the appellant to raise the plea of limitation,we  do not think we are justified at this stage to say	thatthe  High  Court  should not have allowed  the	plea  to  beraised.			    287The argument on the question of limitation is put thus:	 Theplaintiff,   respondent	  herein,  had	knowledge   of	 thefraudulent character of the trust deed as early as 1917	 or,at  any	 rate,	during the pendency of	the  partition	suitbetween	 Rukhmabai  and Chandanlal instituted  in  the	year1929, and the suit filed in 1940, admittedly after six yearsof the said knowledge, would be barred under Art. 120 of theLimition Act.  Article 120 of the Limitation Act reads:			 Period		Time from whichDescription of suit	 of		period begins			 limitation.	to run.---------------------------------------------------------120. Suit for which noperiod of limitation is	  Six years	When the rightprovided elsewhere in			to sue accrues.this Schedule.This  Article was subject to judicial scrutiny both  by	 theJudicial  Committee as well as by the High Court of  variousStates.	 The leading decision on the subject is that of	 theJudicial  Committee  in Bolo v. Koklan	(1).   Therein,	 SirBenod Mitter, observed:"There can be no 'right to sue' until there is an accrual ofthe  right asserted in the suit and its infringement, or  atleast a clear and unequivocal threat to infringe that right,by the defendant against whom the suit is instituted."The said principle was restated and followed by the JudicialCommittee  in Annamalai Chattiar v. A.M.K.C.T  MuthukaruppanChettiar  (2  ) and in Gobinda Narayan Singh  v.  Shain	 LalSingh (3).  The further question is, if there are successiveinvasions or denials of a right, when it can be held that, aperson's right has been clearly and unequivocally threatenedso  as to compel him to institute a suit to  establish	thatright.	In Pothukutchi Appa Rao v. Secretary of State (4), aDivision Bench of the Madras High Court had to consider	 thesaid  question.	 In that case, Venkatasiibba Rao, J.,  afterconsidering the relevant decisions, expressed his view thus:"  There  is  nothing in law which says that  the  moment  aperson's right is denied, he is bound at(1)  (1929-30) L.R. 57 I.A, 325, 331.(2)  (1930) I.L.R. 8 Rang. 645.(3)  (1930-31) L.R. 58 I.A. 125.(4)  A.I.R. 1938 Mad. 193, 198,288his  peril to bring a suit for declaration.  The  Governmentbeyond	passing	 the  order  did  nothing  to  disturb	 theplaintiff's  possession.  It would be most  unreasonable  tohold that a bare repudiation of a	person's      title,without even an overt act, would make it incumbent on him tobring a declaratory suit ".He adds at p. 199:" It is a more difficult question, what is the extent of theinjury	or  infringement  that gives rise to,  what  may  betermed, a compulsory cause of action ? "The legal position may be briefly stated thus: The right  tosue  under Art. 120 of the Limitation Act accrues  when	 thedefendant  has	clearly	 and  unequivocally  threatened	  toinfringe  the right asserted by the plaintiff in  the  suit.Every threat by a party to such a right, however ineffectiveand innocuous it may be, cannot be considered to be a  clearand  unequivocal threat so as to compel him to file a  suit.Whether a particular threat gives rise to a compulsory causeof  action  depends upon the question  whether	that  threateffectively invades or jeopardizes the said right.The  facts  relevant to the question of	 limitation  in	 thepresent	 case  may be briefly restated: The trust  deed	 wasexecuted in 1916.	  The suit house was constructed  in1920.	If, as we have held, the trust deed as well  as	 theconstruction  of  the building were for the benefit  of	 thefamily,	 its execution could not constitute any invasion  ofthe  plaintiff's right.	 Till 1926, the plaintiff's  father,Ratanlal,  was	residing in that house.	 In 1928  when	Dagachallenged the trust deed, the family compromised the matterand salvaged the house.	 From 1936 onwards the plaintiff hasbeen residing in the suit house.  It is conceded that he hadknowledge of the litigation between Rukhmabai and Chandanlalclaiming  the property under the trust deed; but,  for	thatsuit he was not a party and the decision in that  litigationdid not in any way bind him or affect his possession of	 thehouse.	 But  in execution of the decree,  the	Commissionerappointed by the Court came to the premises on February	 13,1937, to take289measurements  of  the house for effecting partition  of	 theproperty,   when   the	plaintiff  raised   objection,	 andthereafter  in	1940, filed the suit.	From  the  aforesaidfacts,	it  is manifest that the plaintiff's  right  to	 theproperty  was  not effectively threatened by  the  appellanttill  the Commissioner came to divide the property.  It	 wasonly then there was an effectual threat to his right to	 thesuit  property	and  the suit was  filed  within  six  yearsthereafter.   We, therefore, hold that the suit	 was  withintime.In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.			      Appeal dismissed.