PETITIONER:THE STATE OF ORISSA AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAM NARAYAN DASDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/09/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASAYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  177		  1961 SCR  (1) 606 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1962 SC 794	 (8) E	    1963 SC 531	 (6,8) RF	    1963 SC1552	 (5) R	    1964 SC 449	 (17) RF	    1964 SC 600	 (13,138) R	    1964 SC1854	 (18) R	    1968 SC1089	 (10,11,13,17) R	    1974 SC 423	 (14) F	    1974 SC2192	 (65,158) RF	    1976 SC1766	 (6,12) RF	    1976 SC2547	 (11,14,21) D	    1978 SC 363	 (11) RF	    1987 SC2135	 (1) R	    1987 SC2408	 (10)ACT:Public	 servant-Probationer  Sub-Inspector-Discharge	fromservice	 for unsatisfactory work and conduct-If	 amounts  todismissal-constitution of India, Art. 311(2).HEADNOTE:The respondent was appointed a Sub-Inspector on probation inthe Orissa Police Force.  A notice was served on him to showcause  why  he should not be discharged from service  "	 forgross  neglect	of  duties and	unsatisfactory	work  ".  Hesubmitted  his	explanation  and asked	for  opportunity  tocross-examine  certain	witnesses.   The  Deputy  Inspector-General of Police considered the explanation  unsatisfactoryand passed an order discharging the respondent from  service"  for	unsatisfactory work and conduct	 ".  The  respondentcontended  that	 the order was invalid on two  grounds:	 (i)that he was not given a reasonable opportunity to show causeagainst	 the  proposed	action within the  meaning  of	Art.311(2), and (ii) that he was not afforded an opportunity  tobe heard nor was any evidence taken on the charges.Held, that the order of discharge did not amount to  dismis-sal and did not attract the protection of Art. 311(2) of theConstitution  and  was a valid order.  The services  of	 therespondent,'  who  was	a probationer,	were  terminated  inaccordance with the rules and not by way of punishment.	  Hehad no right to the post held by him and under the terms  ofhis  appointment he was liable to be discharged at any	timeduring the period of his probation.  The notice given to therespondent  was	 under	Rule  55-B  of	the  Civil  Services(Classification,  Control  and Appeal) Rules which  made  itobligatory  to	give  such  notice  before  terminating	 theservices  of  a	 probationer.  The enquiry  was	 merely	 forascertaining whether he was fit to be confirmed.Shyam  Lal  v. The State of U. P., [1955] 1  S.C.R.  26	 andPurshottam Lal Dhingra v. Union of India, [1958] S.C.R. 828,referred to.State of Bihar v. Gopi Kishore Prasad, A.I.R. 1960 S.C. 689,distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 61/1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember 4, 1957, of the Orissa High Court in O.J.C. No. 449of 1956.			    607C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   D.	  N.Mukherjee and T. M. Sen, for the appellants.The respondent did not appear.1960.  September 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySHAH J.-The respondent was appointed in the year 1950 a Sub-Inspector on probation in the Orissa Police force.  In	viewof  the	 adverse reports received against him  on  July	 28,1954,  notice was served on the respondent calling upon	 himto show cause why he should not be discharged from service "for  gross neglect of duties and unsatisfactory work  ".  Inthe  notice, ten specific instances of neglect of  duty	 andtwo  instances	of misconduct-acceptance of  illegal  grati-fication  and fabrication of official record were  set	out.By his explanation, the respondent submitted that action hadalready	 been  taken against him by  the  Superintendent  ofPolice in respect of instances of neglect of duty set out inthe notice and no further action in respect thereof could onthat  account be taken against him, because to do  so  wouldamount to imposing double punishment.  He denied the  chargerelating  to misconduct and submitted that it was  based  onthe uncorroborated statements of witnesses who were inimicalto  him.  He also asked for an opportunity to  cross-examinethose  witnesses.   The Deputy Inspector General  of  Policeconsidered the explanation and observed:"I  have  carefully gone through the representation  of	 theprobationary  S.  I. His argument that he has  already	beenpunished  by the S. P. for specific instances of  bad'	workdoes not help him very much since all these instances of badwork  during  the  period  of probation	 have  to  be  takentogether  in  considering  his merits  for  confirmation  orotherwise.  The S. 1. has already had long enough of  chanceto  work under different S. Ps. though in one District,	 buthe has not been able to procure a good chit from anyone.  Hehas   also  been  adversely  reported  against	 after	 therepresentation dealt with therein was submitted.  It78608is, therefore, no good retaining him further in service.  Heis discharged from the date on which this order is served onhim ".The Deputy Inspector General of Police on December 11, 1954,in discharging the respondent from service, passed a  formalorder as follows:"  Probationary S. I. Ramnarayan Das of Cuttack District  isdischarged from service for unsatisfactory work and  conductwith effect from the date the order is served on him ".The  respondent then presented a petition under Art. 226  ofthe  Constitution in the High Court of	Judicature,  Orissa,challenging the validity of the order passed and praying forthe issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari or any otherwrit  quashing	the  order of discharge.   Inter  alia,	 therespondent  urged,  (1)	 that the  order  of  discharge	 wasinvalid	 since he was not given a reasonable opportunity  toshow cause against the action proposed to be taken in regardto  him	 within the meaning of Art. 311(2)  of	the  Consti-tution, (2) that the order of discharge was invalid since hewas  not  afforded an opportunity to be heard  nor  was	 anyevidence taken on the charges framed.The  High Court by order dated December 4, 1957,  set  asidethe order of discharge.	 In the view of the High Court,	 theDeputy	 Inspector   General  of  Police  had	taken	intoconsideration  allegations  of	corruption  in	passing	 theimpugned  order and also that he had refused to give to	 therespondent  an	opportunity to	cross-examine  witnesses  onwhose  statements  the charge of misconduct was	 made.	 TheHigh Court observed that by discharging the respondent	fromservice without holding an enquiry as contemplated by r.  55of  the Civil Services (Classification, Control and  Appeal)Rules  and without complying with the requirements  of	Art.311(2) of the Constitution, an " indelible stigma  affectinghis  future  career  " had been	 cast.	 Against  the  orderissuing	  the  writ  quashing  the  order  discharging	 therespondent  from service, this appeal has been preferred  byspecial leave.The respondent was undoubtedly at the time when	 proceedingswere started against him and when he			    609was discharged from service, a probationer, and had no rightto the post held by him.  Under the terms of his appointmentthe  respondent	 was liable to be( discharged  at  any	timeduring	tile  period  of his probation.	 By r.	668  of	 thePolice	Manual	of   the Orissa State, in so far  as  it  ismaterial, it is provided :"  All officers shall in the first instance be appointed  orpromoted on probation.	Where the period of probation is nototherwise  provided  for  in the Rules, it shall  be  for  aperiod of two years in the case of executive  officers......The   authority	 empowered  to	make  such  appointment	  orpromotion  may at any time during such probation period	 andwithout	 the  formalities laid down in Rule  820  remove  anexecutive  officer  directly  appointed or  revert  such  anofficer promoted who has not fulfilled the conditions of hisappointment  or	 who  has shown himself	 unfitted  for	suchappointment or promotion ".Rule 681 of the Police Manual by cl. (b) in so far as it  ismaterial provides,"  Those promoted from the rank of  Assistant  Sub-Inspectorshall be confirmed (Rule 659(e)) and those appointed  directshall be on probation for a period of two years.  At the endof  that period, those pronounced competent and fit will  beconfirmed by the Deputy Inspector-General.  The others	willbe discharged by the same authority ".Rule 55-B of the Civil Services (Classification, Control andAppeal) Rules, in so far as it is material provides :"  Where  it is proposed to terminate the  employment  of  aprobationer,  whether during or at the end of the period  ofprobation,  for	 any  specific fault or on  account  of	 hisunsuitability  for  the service, the  probationer  shall  beapprised  of  the  grounds of such  proposal  and  given  anopportunity  to	 show cause against it,	 before	 orders	 arepassed	 by  the  authority  competent	to   terminate	 theemployment".Notice	 to  show  cause  whether  the	employment  of	 therespondent  should  be	terminated  was,  by  r.  55-B	madeobligatory.  The Deputy Inspector General of Police who	 hadappointed the respondent apprised610him by notice of the grounds on which the order of dischargewas proposed to be made and required him ,,to show cause whyaction	as  proposed  should  not  be  taken.	The   noticeconsisted  of  two parts, (1) relating ;to ten	heads  of  "gross  neglect of duty and unsatisfactory work " and  (2)  "suspicious  and	 un  police  man-like  conduct	"  in  whichspecific  instances  of fabrication of	public	records	 andacceptance  of	illegal	 gratification were  set  out.	 TheDeputy	Inspector General of Police by his order  which	 ha;been  set out hereinbefore, expressly observed that he	had,in considering the case of the respondent for  confirmation,to  take  into	account the reports received  by  him.	 Theformal order communicated to the respondent also stated thatthe    respondent   was	  discharged   from   service	 forunsatisfactory	work and conduct.  The reasons given in	 theorder  clearly	indicate  that the notice  served  upon	 therespondent   was  under	 r.  55-B  of  the  Civil   Services(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules for	ascertainingwhether he should be confirmed or his employment terminated.Prima facie, the order is one terminating employment of	 therespondent  as	a  probationer,	 and  it  is  not  an  orderdismissing  him	 from service.	The High Court	has  howeverheld  that  the	 order of  discharge  amounted	to  imposingpunishment,  because the respondent had been " visited	withevil  consequences  leaving  an	 ineligible  stigma  on	 himaffecting his future career ".The  respondent	 has not appeared before us to	support	 thejudgment  of  the  High Court,	but  the  learned  SolicitorGeneral	 who  appeared	in support of the  appeal  has	veryfairly	invited	 our attention to all the materials  on	 therecord and the relevant authorities which have a bearing  onthe case of the respondent.In Shyam Lal v. The State of Uttar Pradesh and the Union  ofIndia (1), it was held that compulsory retirement under	 theCivil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules ofan officer did not amount to dismissal or removal within themeaning of Art. 311 of the Constitution.  In that case,	 thepublic servant(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 26.611concerned was served with a notice to show cause in  respectof  three specific items of misdemeanor as a public  servantto  which  he submitted his  explanation.   Thereafter,	 thePresident, after considering the case and the recommendationof the commission appointed to investigate the case, decidedthat  the  public servant should be retired  forthwith	fromservice ". This order was challenged by a petition under 226of  the Constitution filed in the High Court  at  Allahabad.In an appeal against the order dismissing the petition, thiscourt  held that the order compulsorily retiring the  publicservant involved " no element of charge or imputation "	 anddid not amount to dismissal or removal within the meaning ofArt.  311(2)  of  the  Constitution and	 the  order  of	 thePresident was not liable to be challenged on the ground thatthe public servant had not been afforded full opportunity toshow cause against the action proposed to be taken in regardto him.In  Parshottam Lal Dhingra v. Union of India (1) this  courtby a majority held that if an officer holding an officiatingpost  had no right under the rules governing his service  tocontinue  in it, and such appointment under the general	 lawbeing  terminable  at  any time on  reasonable	notice,	 thereversion of the public servant to his substantive post	 didnot  operate  as  a forfeiture of any right:  that  order  "visited	 him  with no evil consequences " and could  not  beregarded as a reduction in rank by way of punishment.  Bose,J.,  who disagreed with the majority observed that the	realtest was whether evil consequences over and above those thatensued from a contractual termination, were likely to  ensueas  a consequence of the impugned order: if they were,	Art.311 of the Constitution would be attracted even though	suchevil consequences were not prescribed as penalties under theRules.	In that case, Das; C. J., in delivering the judgmentof  the majority, entered upon an exhaustive review  of	 thelaw  applicable to the termination of employment  of  publicservants and at pp. 861.863 summarised it as follows:(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 828.612"  Any and every termination of service is not a  dismissal,removal	 or  reduction in rank.	 A  termination	 of  servicebrought about by the exercise of a contractual right is	 notper  se	 dismissal or removal, as    has been held  by	thiscourt  in  Satish Chander Anand v. The Union of	 India	(1).Like-wise   the	  termination  of  service   by	  compulsoryretirement  in	terms  of a  specific  rule  regulating	 theconditions of service is not tantamount to the infliction ofa  punishment and does not attract Art. 311(2) as  has	alsobeen  held by this court in Shyam Lal v. The State of  UttarPradesh	 (2)....... In short, if the termination of  serviceis founded on the right flowing from contract or the servicerules then, prima facie, the termination is not a punishmentand carries with it no evil consequences and so Art. 311  isnot attracted.	But even if the Government has, by  contractor  under the rules, the right to terminate  the  employmentwithout	  going	  through  the	procedure   prescribed	 forinflicting  the	 punishment  of	 dismissal,  or	 removal  orreduction in rank, the Government may, nevertheless,  chooseto  punish the servant and if the termination of service  issought to be founded on misconduct, negligence, inefficiencyor  other disqualification, then it is a punishment and	 therequirements of Art. 311 must be complied with.	 As  alreadystated,	 if the servant has got a right to continue  in	 thepost,  then, unless the contract of employment or the  rulesprovide	 to the contrary, his services cannot be  terminatedotherwise  than for misconduct, negligence, inefficiency  orother  good  and  sufficient cause.  A	termination  of	 theservice	 of  such  a  servant on  such	grounds	 must  be  apunishment  and,  therefore, a dismissal or  removal  withinArt. 31 1, for it operates as a forfeiture of his right	 andhe is visited with the evil consequences of loss of pay	 andallowances.   It  puts an indelible stigma  on	the  officeraffecting  his future career....... But the mere  fact	thatthe  servant  has no title to the post or the rank  and	 theGovernment  has, by contract, express or implied,  or  underthe rules, the right to reduce him to a lower post does	 notmean that an order of reduction of a servant(1) [1953] S.C.R. 655.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 26.613to  a  lower post or rank cannot in any circumstances  be  apunishment.   The  real test for  determining-	whether	 thereduction in such cases is or is not by way of punishment isto  find out if the order for the reduction also visits	 theservant	 with any penal consequences....... The use  of	 theexpression,   "	 terminate  "  or  "  discharge	 "  is	 notconclusive.    In  spite  of  the  use	of  such   innocuousexpressions, the court has to apply the two tests  mentionedabove,	namely, (1) Whether the servant had a right  to	 thepost  or  the rank or (2) Whether he has been  visited	withevil consequences of the kind hereinbefore referred to ?  Ifthe  case satisfies either of the two tests then it must  beheld that the servant has been punished and the	 terminationof his service must be taken as a dismissal or removal	fromservice.........."The respondent had no right to the post held by him.   Underthe  terms  of	his  employment,  the  respondent  could  bedischarged  in the manner provided by r. 55-B.	 Again	meretermination of employment does not carry with it " any	evilconsequences " such as forfeiture of his pay or	 allowances,loss  of  his  seniority, stoppage or  postponement  of	 hisfuture	chances of promotion etc.  It is then  difficult  toappreciate  what  " indelible stigma  affecting	 the  futurecareer " of the respondent was cast on him by the order dis-charging  him  from employment for unsatisfactory  work	 andconduct.   The	use of the expression " discharge "  in	 theorder  terminating  employment of a public  servant  is	 notdecisive : it may, in certain cases amount to dismissal.  Ifa  confirmed  public servant holding a substantive  post  isdischarged,  the order would amount to dismissal or  removalfrom   service; but an order discharging a temporary  publicservant	 may  or may not amount to  dismissal.	 Whether  itamounts to an order of dismissal depends upon the nature  ofthe  enquiry, if any, the proceedings taken therein and	 thesubstance of the final order passed on such enquiry.Where  under the rules governing a public servant holding  apost on probation, an order terminating the probation is  tobe preceded by a notice to show cause614why  his service should not be terminated, and a  notice  isissued	asking	the  public servant to	show  cause  whetherprobation  should  be  continued or the	 officer  should  bedischarged from service the order discharging him cannot  besaid   to   amount  to	 dismissal   involving	 punishment.Undoubtedly,  the  Government  may  hold  a  formal  enquiryagainst	 a probationer on charges of misconduct with a	viewto dismiss him from service, and if an order terminating hisemployment  is made in such an enquiry, without	 giving	 himreasonable  opportunity	 to show cause	against	 the  actionproposed to be taken against him within the meaning of	Art.311(2)	of the Constitution, the order would undoubtedly  beinvalid.The  Solicitor	General invited our attention  to  a  recentjudgment  of  this  court, State of Bihar  v.  Gopi  KishorePrasad	(1)in which, delivering the judgment of	 the  court,the  learned Chief Justice extracted five propositions	fromthe   authorities  and	particularly  from  Parshottam	 LalDhingra's   case  (2),	dealing	 with  the  termination	  ofemployment  of	temporary servants  and	 probationers.	 Thethird proposition set out in the judgment is as follows:" But instead of terminating such a person's service withoutany  enquiry, the employer chooses to hold an  enquiry	intohis alleged misconduct, or inefficiency, or for some similarreason, the termination of service is by way of	 punishment,because it puts a stigma on his competence and thus  affectshis  future career.  In such a case, he is entitled  to	 theprotection of Art. 311(2) of the Constitution ".This  proposition, in our judgment, does not  derogate	fromthe principle of the other cases relating to termination  ofemployment  of probationers decided by this court nor is  itinconsistent  with  what  we  have  observed  earlier.	 Theenquiry against the respondent was for ascertaining  whetherhe was fit to be' confirmed.  An order discharging a  publicservant, even if a probationer, in an enquiry on charges  ofmisconduct,	negligence,    inefficiency	or     otherdisqualification, may(1) A.I.R. [1960] S. C. 689.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 828.615appropriately  be regarded as one by way of punishment,	 butan order discharging a probationer following upon an enquiryto  ascertain  whether he should be 0 confirmed, is  not  ofthat nature.  In Gopi Kishore Prasad's case (1), the  publicservant	 was  discharged  from	service	 consequent  upon anenquiry into alleged misconduct, the Enquiry Officer  havingfound  that  the public servant was " unsuitable "  for	 thepost.	 The  order  was  not  one  merely   discharging   aprobationer  following upon an enquiry to ascertain  whetherhe  should be continued in service, but it was an  order  asobserved  by  the court " clearly by way  of  punishment  ".There  is in our judgment no real inconsistency between	 theobservations made in parshottam. Lal Dhingra's case (2)	 andGopi  Kishore Prasad's case (1).  The third  proposition  inthe  latter  case refers to an enquiry into  allegations  ofmisconduct  or inefficiency with a view, if they were  foundestablished,  to imposing punishment and not to	 an  enquirywhether	 a probationer should be confirmed.   Therefore	 thefact  of  the holding of an enquiry is not decisive  of	 thequestion.   What is decisive is whether the order is by	 wayof  punishment,	 in  the light of the  tests  laid  down  inParshottam Lal Dhingra's case (2).We   have   carefully  considered  the	evidence   and	 theauthorities  to which our attention has been invited and  weare  definitely of opinion that the High Court was in  errorin  holding that the order discharging the  respondent	fromservice amounted to dismissal which attracted the protectionof Art. 311(2) of the Constitution.In  that view of the case, this appeal will be	allowed	 andthe  petition for a writ dismissed.  There will be no  orderas to costs throughout.Appeal allowed.(1)  A.I.R. 1960 S.C. 689.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 828.79616