PETITIONER:ROHTAS INDUSTRIES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:BRIJNANDAN PANDEY.DATE OF JUDGMENT:11/10/1956BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR    1		  1956 SCR  800ACT:Industrial Dispute-Temporary employees-Discharge of workmen-Application  before the Labour Appellate  Tribunal-Scope  ofenquiry-Discretion   of	 the  Tribunal-Industrial   Disputes(Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 (XLVIII of 1950), s. 22.HEADNOTE:The  scope  of	an enquiry under s.  22	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950, is whether there isa  prima facie case made out for the proposed  discharge  ofthe workman and the employer has not resorted to any  unfairpractice or victimisation.Though an Industrial Tribunal can create new obligations  ormodify contracts in the. interests of industrial peace or toprevent unfair practice or victimisation, its discretion hasto   be	 exercised  in	accordance  with   well	  recognisedprinciples  and	 it  cannot ignore  altogether	an  existingagreement or existing obligations.The  Automobile	 Products  of India  Ltd.  v.  Rukmaji	Bala([1955] 1 S.C.R. 1241) and Atherton West & Co. Ltd. v.	SutiMill Mazdoor Union, ([1953] S.C.R. 780), relied on.Where, as in the present case, the Labour Appellate Tribunaldid  not direct its mind to the real question to be  decidedon  an application under s. 22 of the Act for permission  todischarge  the	temporary  employees  and  without  decidingwhether the workmen were temporary employees or not,  passedan  order  dismissing  the application on  the	basis  of  afinding	 which	was not determinative of the real  point  orquestion at issue, held that the decision must be set  asideand the proper order passed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 144 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  25,	1953, of the Labour  Appellate	Tribunal  ofIndia, Calcutta in Miscellaneous Case No. C-112 of 1953.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, A.  B.	  N.Sinha and B. P. Maheshwari, for the appellant.S.   P.	 Sinha,	 R.  Patnaik  and  A.  D.  Mathur,  for	 therespondents.8011956.  October 11.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS J.,-This is an appeal by special leave  from  adecision  of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, Calcutta,  datedthe  25th September, 1953.  The relevant facts lie within  anarrow	compass.  On the 4th of May 1953 the appellant,	 theRohtas Industries Limited, Dalmianagar, made an	 applicationto  the said Labour Appellate Tribunal under section  22  ofthe  Industrial	 Disputes  (Appellate  Tribunal)  Act,	1950(XLVIII	 of 1950), hereinafter referred to as the  Act,	 forpermission  to discharge ninety six temporary  employees  inthe  following circumstances.  The appellant company have  anumber	of  factories  at  Dalmianagar	including  a  cementfactory,  power	 house, pulp mill, paper  factory,  chemicalfactory, factory for the manufacture of certain acids and anasbestos  cement  factory.   The company  had  a  number  oftemporary   employees  who  were  engaged   temporarily	  inconnection with certain erection works for the extension andenlargement of those factories.	 The terms of employment  ofthese  employees  were embodied in a  temporary	 appointmentform  which  was  signed by the employees  as  well  as	 themanagement.   The said terms stated, inter alia,  that	"thecompany	 could	discharge the employee at any  time  withoutnotice, compensation and giving any reason therefor, whetheron completion of the work on which the employee was  engagedor  earlier"; the terms also made it clear that whether	 theemployee was on the same job or some other job, in the	samedepartment  or	some  other, either  on	 temporary  work  orpermanent  work, he would remain a temporary employee  untilthe  Works Manager issued a written letter expressly  makinghim a permanent employee.  As and when the various  erectionworks were completed, the temporary employees were first puton a list of spare men and then discharged.  Some time priorto  the	 3rd  of July 1952, sixty nine	of  these  temporaryemployees  were spared for being discharged.  The  names  ofthese sixty nine employees were given in two lists, Appendix802A  and	Appendix B. It was alleged that on the 3rd  of	July1952, a number of these employees headed by one Brij  NandanPandey entered the office of Shri L. C. Jain, Manager of theCement	Factory,  and  Brij  Nandan  Pandey  assaulted	 theManager.   A serious situation resulted from that  'incidentand  the company stopped the sixty nine temporary  employeesfrom coming to their factories or to their Labour Office andissued	a  notice  to them stating  that  the  company	wereapplying  to  the  Industrial  Tribunal	 for  permission  toterminate  their  services.   At  that	time  an  industrialdispute	 relating  to, among other things,  the	 payment  ofbonus to the employees was pending adjudication in the Courtof the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar.  On the 5th of July 1952,the appellant company made an application to the said Tribu-nal  for permission to discharge the sixty  nine  employees.The application was made under section 33 of the  IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947.  On the 12th of July 1952,	 forty	nineout  of the said sixty nine employees made  an	application,under  section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act,  to	 theChairman, Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, on the allegation thatthe appellant company had discharged sixty nine employees onthe 5th July 1952 and had thereby contravened section 33  ofthe  Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.  On the 20th  of  August1952,  thirty six more temporary employees were put  on	 thespare  list  and an application was made to  the  IndustrialTribunal Bihar, for including these thirty six persons	alsoin  the	 application which had been made for  permission  todischarge the temporary men; thus, all told, the applicationrelated to one hundred and five temporary men.	The case  ofthe  appellant	company	 was  that  the	 completion  of	 theerection works for which these temporary men were originallyemployed  was  a gradual process and so far  as	 the  CementFactory erection work was concerned, it was completed by theend  of	 March 1952 except for certain minor  additions	 andalterations.   Therefore,  the appellant company  no  longerrequired  the services of the temporary employees  and	theywere put on the spare list as and803when their services were no longer required.The  two applications which had been made to the  IndustrialTribunal, Bihar, the one under section 33 of the  IndustrialDisputes  Act and the other under section 33-A of  the	saidAct, remained pending with the Industrial Tribunal till	 the17th  of December 1952 on which date the  application  undersection 33-A filed by forty nine of the sixty nine temporaryemployees,  was dismissed.  On the 3rd of January 1953,	 theChairman of the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, intimated to theappellant company that the Tribunal was no longer  competentto  pass any orders on the application under section  33  ofthe  Industrial	 Disputes  Act, 1947,  as  the	adjudicationproceedings  on	 the main reference had	 already  concluded.Two appeals were taken to the Labour Appellate Tribunal, onefrom the award made on	the main adjudication and the  otherfrom the order made on the application under section 33-A ofthe  Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.  On the 20th  May  1953,the appeal from the order under section 33-A was  dismissed.As we are not concerned with that appeal in any way, nothingfurther need be said about it in this judgment.The appeal from the main award was pending on the 4th of May1953  on  which	 date  the  appellant  company	made   theirapplication  under  section  22 of the	Act  to	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal for permission to discharge ninety six ofthe temporary employees.  Though there were one hundred	 andfive temporary employees originally, with regard to whom  anapplication had been made to the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar,nine  out  of  them  voluntarily left  the  service  of	 thecompany;  therefore,  the  number  of  temporary   employeesregarding  whom the application under section 22 of the	 Actwas made was ninety. six only.,The application was contested by forty two of the  temporaryemployees,  and in their affidavit they denied that  any  ofthe   sixty  nine  workmen  were  originally  recruited	  astemporary  workmen  and they further denied that  they	wereinvolved  in  the incident relating to the assault  on	ShriL.C. Jain on the 3rd of July 1952.  They said that in effectthey were804permanent   employees  and  enjoyed  all  the  benefits	  ofpermanent employees.  They further stated.:"The  erection work of the cement plants of the	 petitionerswas  completed towards the end of 1950 and it  is  thereforepatently  false	 to suggest that we became  redundant  as  aresult	of  the	 completion of the erection  of	 the  cementplants.	  It is significant to note that a large  number  ofworkmen	 who  had worked on the job of erecting	 the  cementplants	were discharged shortly after the completion of	 thesaid work on the ground that they were surplus.	 The  cementplants	started to Work in full swing from about  the  firstquarter of 1951 and we were working in the said cement plantproducing  cement from the very beginning. right up  to	 5thJuly  1952, when we were informed that we were surplus.	  Infact  the real reason for the proposed retrenchment  is	 thepetitioner's desire to increase the rate of exploitation  ofits workmen by increasing the workload".With  regard to the terms embodied in the appointment  form,it was alleged that on or about the 3rd of December 1948 theemployees  of  the appellant company were forced  to  go  onstrike on account of an industrial dispute; towards the	 endof the strike the workmen became exhausted and drifted	backto  work.   The	 strike was ultimately called  off  and	 theappellant  company  taking full advantage of  their  victorycompelled  a section of the workmen, who did not  return  towork  until  the  strike was called off,  to  sign  the	 ap-pointment   form  with	the  purpose  of   humiliating	 andterrorising them.The Labour Appellate Tribunal gave its decision on the	25thSeptember  1953	 which	is the decision	 under	appeal.	  Itdismissed  the	application of the appellant. company  on  afinding which the Tribunal expressed in the following words:"It is thus clear that these 96 workmen had been working  inthe production departments from as far back as the beginningof the year 1951 and so the completion of the erection	workcannot be put forward as the ground for their retrenchment".805Referring  to the Directors' Report dated the 10th  of	July1951, the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the workmen'sversion	 that the erection works had been completed  by	 theend  of	 1950 was supported by the said	 report.   In  otherwords,	the  decision of the Labour Appellate  Tribunal	 wasprimarily based on the finding that the erection works	werecompleted  by  the end of 1950 and therefore  there  was  noground for discharging the ninety six temporary men.Learned	 counsel for the appellant has contended  before  usthat (1) the Appellate Tribunal did not correctly appreciatethe true scope and effect of section 22 of the Act; (2)	 theAppellate Tribunal gave attention to only one point, namely,the  completion of erection works, and did not consider	 theother  circumstances put forward on behalf of the  appellantin support of their application; (3) instead of	 consideringthe   real  point  which  arose	 for  determination  on	  anapplication  under  section  22 of the	Act,  the  AppellateTribunal  confined  its attention to a point which  was	 notdecisive of the question before it; and (4) by reason of itsfailure	 to consider the real point for	 determination,	 theorder  of  the Appellate Tribunal has resulted	in  manifestinjustice.   In our opinion, these contentions	are  correctand should be upheld.It was pointed out in The Automobile Products of India	Ltd.v. Rukmaji Bala(1) that section 22 of the Act confers on theAppellate  Tribunal a special jurisdiction which is  in	 thenature	of original jurisdiction and the Tribunal  being  anauthority  of limited jurisdiction must be confined  to	 theexercise  of  such  functions and  powers  as  are  actuallyconferred on it.  With regard to the scope of section 22  ofthe Act, it was observed:"The  object  of  section 22 of the 1950 Act  like  that  ofsection	 33  of the 1947 Act as amended is  to	protect	 theworkmen concerned in disputes which form the  subject-matterof pending proceedings against victimisation by the employeron  account  of their having raised industrial	disputes  ortheir continuing the(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1241. 105105806pending	 proceedings.  It is further the object of  the	 twosections  to  ensure  that proceedings	in  connection	withindustrial  disputes already pending should be brought to  atermination  in a peaceful atmosphere and that	no  employershould	during	the pendency of those proceedings  take	 anyaction of the kind mentioned in the sections which may	giverise  to  fresh disputes likely to  further  exacerbate	 thealready	 strained  relation  between the  employer  and	 theworkmen.  To achieve this object a ban has been imposed uponthe ordinary right which the employer has under the ordinarylaw  governing a contract of employment.  Section 22 of	 the1950 Act and section 33 of the 1947 Act which impose the banalso provide for the removal of that ban by the granting  ofexpress	 permission in writing in appropriate cases  by	 theauthority  mentioned  therein.	 The purpose  of  these	 twosections  being to determine whether the ban should  be	 re-moved  or  not,	 all  that  is	required  of  the  authorityexercising jurisdiction under these sections is to accord orwithhold permission".The  earlier decision of this Court in Atherton West  &	 Co.Ltd.  v. Suti Mill Mazdoor Union(1) dealt with clause 23  ofthe U. P. Government Notification dated the 10th March	1948made in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 3 and 8of the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and it was thereobserved  that	the scope of the enquiry was to	 come  to  aconclusion whether there was a prima facie case made out forthe discharge or dismissal of the workman and the  employer,his  agent  or	manager was not	 actuated  by  any  impropermotives	 or  did  not  resort  to  any	unfair	practice  orvictimisation  in  the matter of the proposed  discharge  ordismissal  of  the  workman.  That being the  scope  of	 theenquiry on an application under section 22 of the Act,	whatthe  Labour Appellate Tribunal had to decide in the  presentcase was whether the appellant company had made out a  Primafacie,case for the proposed discharge and whether they	wereresorting  to  any unfair practice or victimisation  in	 thematter of the proposed discharge.(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 780.807Instead	 of  doing  that,  the	Labour	Appellate   Tribunaldismissed  the application of the appellant company  on	 theonly  ground  that  the	 version of  the  workmen  that	 theerection  works	 had been completed by the end of  1950	 wassupported by the Report of the Directors dated the 10th July1951.  Learned counsel for the appellant has rightly pointedout that even in respect of the completion of erection worksthe  conclusion of the Appellate Tribunal is a complete	 nonsequitur.  First of all, the Directors' Report was dated the10th July 1951 though the balance-sheet of the company	withwhich the report was dealing related to the period ending onthe 31st October 1950 The report naturally referred to	suchworks as were completed on or before the 10th of July  1951.It  should be obvious that the completion of erection  worksmust  be a gradual process, and while some of  the  erectionworks  might have been completed by the end of 1950 or	July1951,  some were still in the process of completion.   Undertheir  terms  of employment, temporary	employees  could  bemoved from one work to the other and the mere  circumstance,that they were employed in a production department for	sometime,  even if true, did not make them permanent  employees;nor  did  the  circumstance that they enjoyed  some  of	 thebenefits of permanent employees make them permanent.   Theseare circumstances which have been completely ignored by	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal.It  is	worthy of note that in their application  dated	 the12th of July 1952, the forty nine workmen admitted:"though	 most of us were originally recruited  for  erectionwork  in  the  Cement  Factory, many of	 us  were  later  ontransferred   as  permanent  workers  to  sugar	 and   paperfactories and some of us were absorbed as permanent  workersin  the	 maintenance section of the Cement  Factory".  (Videparagraph 3 of the application).In  the joint affidavit filed on the 12th August,  1953,  inreply to the appellant's application under section 22 of theAct, the said workmen denied however that808they were at any time engaged temporarily for temporary workvide  paragraphs 3 and 6 of the affidavit.  Obviously,	theywere  shifting from the position which they  had  originallytaken  up.   No	 evidence was given that the  men  who	wereemployed  temporarily were afterwards made permanent.	Theyfiled  a  schedule, marked 'A', to their  affidavit  whereinthey  showed  their period of service and the  name  of	 thefactory or plant from where their duties stopped.  On an ex-amination  of  the schedule (Annexure A) it appears  that  anumber of them were put on the spare list when the  erectionwork  was  completed  some  time  in  1952.   'Annexure	 'A'therefore  supports the case of the appellant  company	thatthe completion of the erection works was a gradual  process,some were completed in 1950, some in 1951 and some in  1952.The  first  batch of sixty-nine employees with whom  we	 areconcerned were put on the spare list between March and	July1952  and  the second batch were put on the  spare  list  inAugust 1952 when the relevant erection works were completed.The finding of the Labour Appellate Tribunal with regard  tothe  completion of erection works was vitiated by reason  ofthe  failure  to take into consideration  the  circumstancesstated above.With  regard  to  the terms of employment  embodied  in	 thetemporary  appointment form, the respondents' case was	thatthe appointment forms were signed as a result of the  strikein 1948; it was never suggested that these forms were  neversigned	at  all and the comment of learned counsel  for	 therespondents that the appellant company have not produced theappointment  forms has very little force.   The	 respondentsgave  no  evidence  in support of the  allegation  that	 theappointment  forms were taken from them for the	 purpose  ofhumiliating  or	 terrorising  them, nor	 did  the  AppellateTribunal  come to any such finding.  None of the  affidavitsfiled  on  behalf of the respondents suggested,	 even  in  aremote way, that the appellant company were resorting to anyunfair	practice or victimisation in the matter of the	pro-posed discharge.809 Learned counsel for the respondents has contended before usthat  the  finding  of the Labour Appellate  Tribunal  is  afinding	  on  a	 question  of  fact,  namely,  whether	 therespondents  were temporary or permanent employees.  He	 hasargued that this Court should not interfere even though	 thefinding is based on reasons which may not appear  convincingto  us.	  We  have, however, pointed  out  that	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal gave no finding on the question  whetherthe  respondents were temporary employees or not.  The	onlyfinding	 which	the  Tribunal gave related  to	a  differentmatter, namely, the completion of erection works.  Secondly,learned counsel for the respondents has contended that undersection	 22  of	 the  Act  the	Appellate  Tribunal  had   adiscretion either to lift the ban or not to lift it and in amatter of discretion this Court should not interfere.  It istrue  that  this Court does not sit upon  the  decisions  ofIndustrial  Tribunals like an ordinary Court of appeal,	 andthere must be special circumstances to justify the  exerciseof our special power under article 136 of the  Constitution.In  our	 opinion, such special circumstances  exist  in	 thepresent	 case  where the Labour Appellate Tribunal  has	 notdirected  its mind to the real question to be decided on  anapplication  under section 22 of the Act and has  passed  anorder  on the basis of a somewhat irrelevant  finding  whichhas resulted in manifest injustice.The  discretion	 which an Industrial Tribunal  has  must  beexercised  in  accordance with well  recognised	 principles.There  is undoubtedly a distinction between  commercial	 andindustrial  arbitration.  As has been pointed out by  LudwigTeller	(Labour Disputes and Collective Bargaining) Vol.  1,page 536:"Industrial  arbitration  may involve the  extension  of  anexisting  agreement,  or  the making of a  new	one,  or  ingeneral the creation of new obligations or modifications  ofold  ones, while commercial arbitration	 generally  concernsitself	with  interpretation  of  existing  obligations	 anddisputes relating to existing agreements".810A Court of law proceeds on the footing that no power  existsin the courts to make contracts for people; and the  partiesmust make their own contracts.	The courts reach their limitof power when they enforce contracts which the parties	havemade.	An  Industrial Tribunal is not so fettered  and	 maycreate new obligations or modify contracts in the  interestsof  industrial	peace,	to protect  legitimate	trade  unionactivities and to prevent unfair practice or  victimisation.We  cannot, however, accept the extreme	 position  canvassedbefore us that an Industrial Tribunal can ignore  altogetheran  existing agreement or existing obligations for no  rhymeor reason whatsoever.It  has	 been  necessary for us to go  into  the  facts	 andcircumstances  of this case in greater detail than is  usualwith  this Court, because the Labour Appellate Tribunal	 didnot  do	 so.   The Act under which  the	 Appellate  Tribunalpurported  to  pass its order has now been repealed  by	 theIndustrial Disputes (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions)Act,  1956.   A question of some nicety as  to	the  correctinterpretation	of  section 33 of  the	Industrial  Disputes(Amendment  and	 Miscellaneous Provisions) Act,	 1956  mighthave  arisen if we had thought fit to remand this case.	  Wedo  not,  however, think it necessary to pass  an  order  ofremand	in this case and therefore abstain  from  expressingany  opinion  as  to  the  correct  position  in  law  undersubsection (2) of section 33 of that Act.  No new facts needinvestigation in this case.  Learned counsel for the partieshave taken us through all the affidavits filed and the factsnecessary for an enquiry under section 22 of the Act clearlyemerge from those affidavits.  We are satisfied Prima  faciethat  the respondents were temporary employees and were	 puton  the	 spare	list as and when  the  erection	 works	weregradually completed.  The appellant company have made out  aprima  facie case for the permission which they	 have  askedfor  and there is no suggestion even of any unfair  practiceor victimisation.In these circumstances, we would allow the appeal, set asidethe decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal dated the 25thSeptember 1953 and pass the order811 Which	that  Tribunal	should have  passed  in	 this  case,namely,	 that  permission  be granted to  the  appellant  todischarge   ninety   six   temporary   workmen.	   In	 thecircumstances  of this case, we think that the parties	mustbear their own costs throughout.Appeal allowed.