PETITIONER:TALAB HAJI HUSSAIN	Vs.RESPONDENT:MADHUKAR PURSHOTTAM MONDKARAND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/02/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1958 AIR  376		  1958 SCR 1226ACT:Criminal Law-Bail-Cancellation-High Court's inherent  power-Bailable  offence-Accused  released on bail  by	 Magistrate-Subsequent Prejudicial conduct of accused-High Court's Powerto  cancel bail-Code of Criminal Procedure (Act 5 Of  1898),ss. 426, 496,497,498,56 1A.HEADNOTE:The appellant was charged under s. 120 B of the Indian PenalCode and s. 167(8i) of the Sea Customs Act, i878, which werebailable  offences,  and was released on bail by  the  ChiefPresidency  Magistrate under s. 496 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure.    An  application  made  subsequently   by	 thecomplainant  for cancellation of the bail was  dismissed  bythe  Magistrate	 on the ground that under s. 496 he  had  nojurisdiction  to cancel the bail.  The	complainant  invokedthe  inherent power of the High Court under s. 561A  of	 theCode  and  the	High Court took the  view  that	 under	thatsection it had inherent power to cancel the bail,and findingthat on the material produced before the Court it would	 notbe safe to permit the appellant to be at large, it cancelledthe bail.  On appeal to the Supreme Court:--Held,  that  though  under s. 496 of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure a person accused of a bailable offence is entitledto  be	released on bail pending his trial, if	his  conductsubsequent  to his release is found to be prejudicial  to  afair trial, he forfeits his right to be released on bail andsuch  forfeiture  can  be made	effective  by  invoking	 theinherent power of the High Court under S. 561A of the  Code.But  the  inherent  power has  to  be  exercised  sparingly,carefully  and with caution and only where such exercise  isjustified by the tests specifically laid down in the sectionitself.Lala  jairam  Das & Others v. King Emperor, (1945)  L.R.  72I.A. 120, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: CriminalAppeal No. 16 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the Judgment and	order  datedJanuary	 14,  1958,  of the Bombay High	 Court	in  CriminalApplication  No. 60 of 1958 arising out of the judgment	 andorder  dated  January  9,  1958,  of  the  Court  of   ChiefPresidency  Magistrate	at  Bombay  in	an  application	 forcancellation of bail in Case No. 608/W of 1957.			    1227Purshottam Tricumdas, Rajni Patel and I. N. Shroff, for	 theappellant.K.   J. Khandalwala and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 1.1958. February 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-The	appellant, along with(	others,	 hasbeen  charged under s. 120B of the Indian Penal Code and  s.167(81)	 of  the Sea Customs Act (8 of 1878).  There  is  nodoubt  that the offences charged against the  appellant	 arebailable  offences.   Under s. 496 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure  the appellant was released on bail of Rs.  75,000with one surety for like amount on December 9, 1957, by	 thelearned	 Chief Presidency Magistrate at Bombay.	 On  January4,  1958, an application was made by the complainant  beforethe  learned  Magistrate for cancellation of the  bail;	 thelearned	 Magistrate, however, dismissed the  application  onthe  ground  that  under s. 496 be had	no  jurisdiction  tocancel	the  bail.   Against  this  order,  the	 complainantpreferred a revisional application before the High Court  ofBombay.	   Another   application  was	preferred   by	 thecomplainant  before  the same Court  invoking  its  inherentpower  under  S. 561 A of the Code  of	Criminal  Procedure.Chagla C. J. and Datar J. who heard these applications	tookthe  view  that,  under	 s. 561A of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  the High Court had inherent power to	 cancel	 thebail  granted to a person accused of a bailable offence	 andthat, in a proper case, such power can and must be exercisedin  the	 interests  of justice.	  The  learned	Judges	thenconsidered  the material produced before the Court and	cameto the conclusion that, in the present case, it would not besafe  to permit the appellant to be at large.  That  is	 whythe  application made by the complainant invoking  the	HighCourt's	 inherent  power  under	 s. 561 A  of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure was allowed, the bail-bond	executed  bythe  appellant	was  cancelled	and  an	 order	was   passeddirecting  that	 the  appellant be  arrested  forthwith	 andcommitted to1561228custody.   It is against this order that the  appellant	 hascome  to  this Court in appeal by  special  leave.   Specialleave granted to the appellant has, however, been limited tothe question of the construction of s. 496 read with s. 561Aof  the Code of Criminal Procedure.  Thus the point  of	 lawwhich  falls  to  be considered in  the	 present  appeal  iswhether,  in  the  case of a person accused  of	 a  bailableoffence	 where bail has been granted to him under s. 496  ofthe  Code  of Criminal Procedure, it can be cancelled  in  aproper	case by the High Court in exercise of  its  inherentpower under s. 561A of the Code of Criminal Procedure?	Thisquestion  is  no doubt of considerable	importance  and	 itsdecision would depend upon the construction of the  relevantsections of the Code.The material provisions on the subject of bail are containedin  ss.	 496  to  498 of the  Code  of	Criminal  Procedure.Section 496 deals with persons accused of bailable offences.It provides that " when a person charged with the commissionof  a  bailable	 offence is  arrested  or  detained  withoutwarrant	 by an officer in charge of a police station  or  isbrought before a court and is prepared at any time, while inthe  custody  of  such	officer	 or  at	 any  stage  of	 theproceedings  before  such court, to give bail,	such  personshall be released on bail." The section further leaves it tothe  discretion of the police officer or the court if he  orit  thinks  fit	 to  discharge the  accused  person  on	 hisexecuting a bond without sureties for his appearance and notto take bail from him.	Section 497 deals with the  questionof  granting bail in the case of non-bailable  offences.   Aperson accused of a non-bailable offence may be released  onbail  but  he  shall  not be so	 released  if  there  appearreasonable grounds for believing that he has been guilty  ofan  offence punishable with death or imprisonment for  life.This is the effect of s. 497(1).  Sub-section (2) deals withcases  where  it appears to the officer or  the	 court	thatthere  are  not reasonable grounds for	believing  that	 theaccused	 has committed a non-bailable offence but there	 aresufficient grounds for further enquiry into his guilt and itlays down that in such cases the accused shall, pending such1229enquiry,  be released, on bail or at the discretion  of	 theofficer or court, on the execution by him of a bond  withoutsureties  for his appearance as hereinafter provided.	Sub-section	 (3) requires that, when jurisdiction  under  sub-s.(2) is exercised in favour of an accused person, reasons forexercising  such jurisdiction shall be recorded in  writing.Sub-section  (3A)  which has been added in 1955	 deals	withcases  where  the'  trial of a person accused  of  any	non-bailable  offence is not concluded within a period of  sixtydays  from  the first day fixed for taking evidence  in	 thecase  and  it provides that such person shall, if he  is  incustody	 during the whole of the aid period, be released  onbail  unless  for  reasons to be  recorded  in	writing	 themagistrate otherwise directs.  The last sub-section  confersoil  the  High Court and the Court of Session,	and  on	 anyother  court  in the case of a person  released	 by  itself,power to direct that a person who hap, been released on bailunder  any  of	the provisions of  this	 section  should  bearrested  and committed to custody.  Section 498(1)  conferson  the High Court or the Court of Session power  to  directadmission  to bail or reduction of bail in all	cases  wherebail  is  admissible under ss. 496 and 497 whether  in	suchcases  there be an appeal against conviction or	 not.	Sub-section	 (2) of s. 498 empowers the High Court or the  Courtof Session to cause any person who has been admitted to bailunder  sub-s. (1) to be arrested and committed	to  custody.There is one more section to which reference must be made inthis  connection  and  that is s. 426  of  the	Code.	Thissection	 incidentally deals with the power to grant bail  topersons	 who  have been convicted of  non-bailable  offenceswhen  such  convicted persons satisfy the  court  that	theyintend	 to   present  appeals	against	 their	 orders	  ofconviction.  That is the effect of s. 426(2A) which has beenadded  in 1955.	 A similar power has been conferred  on	 theHigh Court under sub-s. (2B) of s. 426 where the High  Courtis  satisfied  that the convicted person  has  been  grantedspecial	 leave	to appeal to the Supreme Court	against	 anysentence  which	 the High Court has imposed  or	 maintained.Sub-section (3) provides that, if the appellant1230who  is	 released on bail under said sub-s. (2) or  (2B)  isultimately sentenced to imprisonment, the time during  whichhe  is so released shall be excluded in computing  the	termfor  which he is so sentenced.	That briefly is -the  schemeof the Code on the subject of bail.There  is no doubt that under s. 496 a person accused  of  abailable offence is entitled to be released on bail  pendinghis trial.  As soon as it appears that the accused person isprepared  to  give bail, the police officer  or	 the  court,before whom he offers to give bail, is bound to release	 himon such terms as to bail as may appear to the officer or thecourt  to  be  reasonable.  It would even  be  open  to	 theofficer	 or the court to discharge such person on  executinghis  bond as provided in the section instead of taking	bailfrom  him.  The position of persons accused of	non-bailableoffences   is	entirely  different.   Though	the   recentamendments  made  in  the provisions of	 s.  497  have	madedefinite  improvement in favour of persons accused  of	non-bailable  offences, it would nevertheless be correct to	 saythat  the grant of bail in such cases is generally a  matterin  the	 discretion  of the authorities	 in  question.	 Theclassification	of  offences  into  the	 two  categories  ofbailable and non-bailable offences may perhaps be  explainedon  the basis that bailable offences are generally  regardedas  less grave and serious than non-bailable  offences.	  Onthis  basis it may not be easy to explain why, for  instanceoffences  under	 ss. 477, 477A, 475 and 506  of	 the  IndianPenal  Code should be regarded as bailable whereas  offencesunder  s. 379 should be non-bailable.  How. ever, it  cannotbe disputed that s. 496 recognizes that a person accused  ofa  bailable offence has a right to be enlarged on  bail	 andthat  is a consideration on which Shri Purushottam, for	 theappellant, has very strongly relied.Shri Purushottam has also emphasized the fact that,  whereaslegislature   has  specifically	 conferred  power   on	 thespecified  courts  to cancel the bail granted  to  a  personaccused	 of a non-bailable offence by the provisions  of  s.497  (5), no such power has been conferred on any  court  inregard to persons accused1231of bailable offences.  If legislature had intended to confersuch  a power it would have been very easy for it to add  anappropriate sub-section under s. 496.  The omission to	makesuch a provision is, according to Shri Parushottam, not	 theresult	of inadvertence but, is deliberate; and if  that  isso,  it would not be legitimate or reasonable to clothe	 theHigh  Courts  with the power to cancel bails in	 such  casesunder s. 561 A. It is this aspect of the matter which  needscareful examination in the present case.Section	 561A was added to the Code in 1923 and it  purportsto save the inherent power of the High Courts.	It  providesthat nothing in the Code shall be deemed to limit or  affectthe inherent power of the High Court to make such orders  asmay be necessary to give effect to any order under the	Codeor to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwiseto secure the ends of justice.	It appears that doubts	wereexpressed in some judicial decisions about the existence  ofsuch inherent power in the High Courts prior to 1923.	Thatis  why	 legislature  enacted this section  to	clarify	 theposition  that the provisions of the Code were not  intendedto limit or affect the inherent power of the High Courts  asmentioned  in  s. 561A.	 It is obvious	that  this  inherentpower can be exercised only for either of the three purposesspecifically mentioned in the section.	This inherent  powercannot naturally be invoked in respect of any matter coveredby  the specific provisions of the Code.  It cannot also  beinvoked	 if its exercise would be inconsistent with  any  ofthe  specific  provisions of the Code.	It is  only  if	 thematter in question is not covered by any specific provisionsof  the Code that s. 561A can come into	 operation,  subjectfurther	 to the requirement that the exercise of such  powermust  serve  either of the three purposes mentioned  in	 thesaid section.  In prescribing rules of procedure legislatureundoubtedly  attempts  to  provide for all  cases  that	 arelikely to arise; but it is not possible that any legislativeenactment  dealing with procedure, however carefully it	 maybe  drafted, would succeed in providing for all	 cases	thatmay possibly1232arise  in  future.   Lacunae  are  sometimes  discovered  inprocedural  law and it is to cover such lacunae and to	dealwith cases where such lacunae are discovered that procedurallaw invariably recognizes the existence of inherent power incourts.	 It would be noticed that it is only the High Courtswhose  inherent power is recognized by s. 561A; and even  inregard to the High Courts' inherent power definite  salutarysafeguards  have been laid down as to its exercise.   It  isonly where the High Court is satisfied either that an  orderpassed under the Code would be rendered ineffective or	thatthe process of any court would be abused or that the ends ofjustice	 would riot be secured that the High Court  can	 andmust  exercise its inherent power under s. 561A.  There	 canthus  be  no  dispute  about the scope	and  nature  of	 theinherent  power	 of the High Courts and the  extent  of	 itsexercise.Now  it	 is  obvious that the  primary	object	of  criminalprocedure  is  to ensure a fair trial  of  accused  persons.Every	criminal  trial	 begins	 with  the  presumption	  ofinnocence  in favour of the accused ; and provisions of	 theCode  are so framed that a criminal trial should begin	withand  be throughout governed by this essential presumption  ;but a fair trial has naturally two objects in view; it	mustbe  fair  to  the  accused and must  also  be  fair  to	 theprosecution.  The test of fairness in a criminal trial	mustbe judged from this dual point of view.	 It is therefore  ofthe  utmost importance that, in a criminal trial,  witnessesshould	be able to give evidence without any  inducement  orthreat	either	from  the prosecution  or  the	defence.   Acriminal trial must never be so conducted by the prosecutionas  would  lead	 to the conviction of  an  innocent  person;similarly  the	progress  of a criminal trial  must  not  beobstructed by the accused so as to lead to the acquittal  ofa really guilty offender.  The acquittal of the innocent andthe  conviction of the guilty are the objects of a  criminaltrial  and  so there can be no possible doubt that,  if	 anyconduct	 on  the  part of an accused  person  is  likely  toobstruct a fair trial, there is occasion for the exercise ofthe inherent1233power  of  the High Courts to secure the  ends	of  justice.There  can be no more important requirement of the  ends  ofjustice than the uninterrupted progress of a fair trial; andit  is	for the continuance of such a fair  trial  that	 theinherent powers of the High Courts are sought to be  invokedby the prosecution in cases where it is alleged that accusedpersons, either by suborning or intimidating witnesses,	 areobstructing the smooth progress of a fair trial.  Similarly,if an accused person who is released on bail jumps bail	 andattempts  to run to a foreign country to escape	 the  trial,that  again  would  be	a case where  the  exercise  of	 theinherent  power	 would be justified in order to	 compel	 theaccused	 to  submit to a fair trial and not  to	 escape	 itsconsequences  by  taking advantage of the fact that  he	 hasbeen released on bail and by absconding to another  country.In  other  words,  if  the conduct  of	the  accused  personsubsequent  to	his  release on bail puts  in  jeopardy	 theprogress  of  a fair trial itself and if there is  no  otherremedy	which  can be effectively used against	the  accusedperson, in such a case the inherent power of the High  Courtcan  be	 legitimately invoked.	In  regard  to	non-bailableoffences  there is no need to invoke such power	 because  s.497  (5) specifically deals with such cases.   The  questionwhich we have to decide in this case is whether exercise  ofinherent  power	 under s. 561A against	persons	 accused  ofbailable  offences,  who  have been  released  on  bail,  iscontrary to or inconsistent with the provisions of s.  496of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Shri Purushottam contends that the provisions of s.    496are plainly inconsistent with the exercise of inherent powerunder s. 561A against the appellant in the present case and;he  argues that, despite the order which has been passed  bythe  High  (Court, he would be entitled to  move  the  trialcourt  for bail again and the trial court would be bound  torelease him on bail because the right to be released on bailrecognized  by	s. 496 is an absolute  and  an	indefeasibleright;	and despite the order of the High Court, that  rightwould  still be available to the appellant.  If that be	 thetrue position, the order passed under1234s.   561A  would  be rendered ineffective  and	that  itselfwould show that there is a conflict between the exercise  ofthe  said  power  and  the  provisions	of  s.	496.	Thuspresented, the argument no doubt is prima facie	 attractive;but  a close examination of the provisions of s.  496  wouldshow  that there is no conflict between its  provisions	 andthe exercise of the jurisdiction under s. 561A.	 In  dealingwith this argument it is necessary to remember that, if	 thepower  under  s. 561 A is exercised by the High	 Court,	 thebail offered by the accused and accepted by the trial  courtwould  be cancelled and the accused would be ordered  to  bearrested  forthwith  and  committed to	custody.   In  otherwords, the effect of the order passed under s.	  561A, justlike the effect of an order passed under s.  497 (5) and  s.498  (2), would be not only that the bail is  cancelled	 butthat the accused is ordered to be arrested and committed  tocustody.   The order committing the accused to custody is  ajudicial  order	 passed	 by a criminal	court  of  competentjurisdiction.	His commitment to custody thereafter is	 notby reason of the fact that he is alleged to have committed abailable  offence at all; his commitment to custody  is	 theresult of a judicial order passed on the ground that he	 hasforfeited  his bail and that his subsequent  conduct  showedthat,  pending	the  trial, he cannot be allowed  to  be  atlarge.	 Now, where a person is committed to  custody  undersuch an order, it would not be open to him to fall back uponhis  rights  under  s.	496,  for  s.  496  would  in	suchcircumstances  be inapplicable to his case.  It may be	thatthere  is no specific provision for the cancellation of	 thebond  and  the re-arrest of a person accused of	 a  bailableoffence; but that does not mean that s. 496 entitles such anaccused person to be released on bail, even though it may beshown that he is guilty of conduct entirely subversive of  afair  trial  in	 the  court.   We do  not  read	 s.  496  asconferring on a person accused of a bailable offence such anunqualified,  absolute	and  an	 indefeasible  right  to  bereleased on bail,1235In  this  connection, it would be relevant to  consider	 theeffect	of the provisions of s. 498.  Under s.	498(1),	 theHigh Court or the Court of Sessions may, even in the case ofpersons	 accused  of bailable offences, admit  such  accusedpersons	 to bail or reduce the amount of A bail demanded  bythe  prescribed authorities under s. 496.  Shri	 Purushottamno doubt' attempted to, argue that the operative part of theprovisions of s. 498(1) does not apply to persons accused ofbailable offences; but in our opinion, there can be no doubtthat this sub-section deals with cases of persons accused ofbailable as well as non-bailable offences.  We have no doubtthat,  even  in	 regard	 to  persons  accused  of   bailableoffences,  if  the  amount of bail fixed  under	 s.  496  isunreasonably high the accused person can move the High Courtor  the	 Court	of Sessions for reduction  of  that  amount.Similarly,  a person accused of a bailable offence may	movethe  High Court or the Court of Sessions to be	released  onbail and the High Court or the Court of Sessions may  directeither that the amount should be reduced or that the  personmay be admitted to bail.  If a person accused of a  bailableoffence	 is admitted to bail by an order passed by the	HighCourt or the Court of Sessions, the provisions of sub-s. (2)become	applicable to his case; and under  these  provisionsthe  High  Court  or  the Court	 of  Sessions  is  expresslyempowered to cancel the bail granted by it and to arrest theaccused and commit him to custody.  This sub-section, as  wehave  already  pointed out, has been added in 1955  and	 nowthere  is no doubt that legislature has conferred  upon	 theHigh Court or the Court of Sessions power to cancel bail  inregard	to  cases of persons accused  of  bailable  offenceswhere  such persons have been admitted to bail by  the	HighCourt or the Court of Sessions under s. 498(1).	 The  resultis that with regard to a class of cases of bailable offencesfailing under s. 498(1), even after the accused persons	 areadmitted  to bail, express power has been conferred  on	 theHigh  Court  or	 the Court of Sessions to  arrest  them	 andcommit them to custody.	 Clearly then it cannot be said thatthe right of a1571236   person accused of a bailable offence to be released onbail  cannot be forfeited even if his conduct subsequent  tothe  grant  of	bail is found to be prejudicial	 to  a	fairtrial.It would also be interesting to notice that, even before  s.498(2) was enacted, there was consensus of judicial  opinionin favour of the view that, if accused persons were releasedon bail under s. 498(1), their bail-bond could be  cancelledand  they could be ordered to be arrested and  committed  tocustody under the provisions of s. 561 A of the Code  [MirzaMohammad Ibrahim v. Emperor (1), Seoti v. Rex (2 ),  BachchuLal  v. State (3), Muunshi Singh v. State (4) and The  CrownProsecutor, Madras v. Krishnan (5) ]. These decisions  wouldshow  that  the exercise of inherent power  to	cancel	bailunder  s.  561A was not regarded as  inconsistent  with	 theprovisions  of s. 498(1) of the Code.  It is true  that	 allthese  decisions referred to cases of persons  charged	withnon-bailable  offences;	 but  it  is  significant  that	 theprovisions of s. 497(5) did not apply to these cases and theappropriate orders were passed under the purported  exerciseof  inherent power under s. 561A.  On principle	 then  thesedecisions  proceed on the assumption, and we think  rightly,that  the exercise of inherent power in that behalf was	 notinconsistent with the provisions of s. 498 as it then stood.It would now be relevant to enquire whether, on principle, adistinction  can be made between bailable  and	non-bailableoffences in regard to the effect of the prejudicial  conductof accused persons subsequent to their release on bail.	  Aswe  have  already  observed, if a fair	trial  is  the	mainobjective  of  the  criminal procedure, any  threat  to	 thecontinuance of a fair trial must be immediately arrested andthe  smooth  progress of a fair trial must be  ensured;	 andthis can be done, if necessary, by the exercise of  inherentpower.	 The  classification of offences into  bailable	 andnon-bailable on which are based the different provisions  asto the grant of bail would not, in our opinion, have any(1) A.I.R. 1932All.534.	      (2) A.I. R. 1948 All. 366.(3) A.I.R. 1951 All. 836.     (4) A.I.R. 1952 All. 39.(5)I.L.R. 1946 Mad. 62.			    1237material  bearing  in dealing with the effect  of  the	sub-sequent	 conduct of accused persons on the continuance of  afair  trial itself.  If an accused person, by  his  conduct,puts  the fair trial into jeopardy, it would be the  primaryand  paramount	duty of criminal courts to ensure  that	 therisk  to the fair trial is removed and criminal	 courts	 areallowed to proceed with the trial, smoothly and without	 anyinterruption or obstruction ; and this would be equally truein cases of both bailable as well as non-bailable  offences.We,  therefore, feel no difficulty in holding that,  if,  byhis  subsequent	 conduct,  a person accused  of	 a  bailableoffence	 forfeits  his right to be released  on	 bail,	thatforfeiture  must be made effective by invoking the  inherentpower  of  the	High  Court  under  s.	561A.	Omission  oflegislature  to make a specific provision in that behalf  isclearly	 due  to  oversight or inadvertence  and  cannot  beregarded  as deliberate.  If the appellant's  contention  issound, it would lead to fantastic results.  The argument  isthat  a	 person accused of a bailable offence  has  such  anunqualified  right  to be released on bail that even  if  hedoes  his worst to obstruct or to defeat a fair	 trial,	 hisbail-bond  cannot be cancelled and a threat to a fair  trialcannot	be arrested or prevented.  Indeed Shree	 Purushottamwent  the  length  of suggesting that in  such	a  case	 theimpugned subsequent conduct of the accused may give rise  tosome  other  charges  under the Indian Penal  Code,  but  itcannot	justify	 his re-arrest.	 Fortunately that  does	 notappear	to  be	the  true legal	 position  if  the  relevantprovisions  of the Code in regard to the grant of  bail	 areconsidered  as a whole along with the provisions of s.	561Aof the Code.It now remains to consider the decision of the Privy Councilin  Lala  Jairam Das & Others v. King Emperor  (1),  becauseShri  Purushottam' has very strongly relied on some  of	 theobservations made in that case.	 According to that decision,the  provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure confer  nopower on High Courts to grant bail to a person who has	beenconvicted  and	sentenced to imprisonment and  to  whom	 HisMajesty(1)  (1945) L.R. 72 I.A. 120,132.1238in  Council  has given special leave to appeal	against	 hissentence and conviction.  Divergent views had been expressedby the High Courts in this country on the question as to theHigh  Courts' power to grant -bail to convicted persons	 whohad been given special leave to appeal to the Privy Council;these  views  and the scheme of the Code in  regard  to	 thegrant  of bail were examined by Lord Russel of Killowen	 whodelivered  the	judgment of the Board in Lala  Jairam  Das'scase (1).  The decision has thus no application to the factsbefore	 us;   but  Shri  Purushottam  relies	on   certainobservations made in the judgment.  It has been observed  inthat judgment that " their Lordships take the view that	 Ch.XXXIX of the Code together with s. 426 is, and was intend tocontain,  a complete and exhaustive statement of the  powersof  a  High Court in India to grant bail, and  excludes	 theexistence  of any additional inherent power in a High  Courtrelating  to  the subject of bail ".  The  judgment  furthershows  their  Lordships'  opinion, like the  High  Court  ofJustice	 in  England, High Courts in India  would  not	haveinherent  power	 to grant bail to a  convicted	person.	  Itwould  be clear from the judgment that their Lordships	werenot called upon to consider the question about the  inherentpower of the High Courts to cancel bail under s. 561A.	Thatpoint did not obviously arise in the case before them.	Evenso,  in	 dealing with the question as  to  whether  inherentpower  could be exercised for granting bail to	a  convictedperson, their Lordships did refer to S. 561A of the Code andthey  pointed  out that such a power  ,,cannot	be  properlyAttributed   to	 the  High  Courts  because  it	 would,	  ifexercised,  interrupt  the  serving of	the  sentence;	and,besides	 it  would,  in	 the  event  of	 the  appeal   beingunsuccessful,  result in defeating the ends of justice.	  Itwas also pointed out that if the bail was allowed in such  acase, the exercise of the inherent power would result in -analteration  by	the  High Court of  its	 judgment  which  isprohibited  by	s. 369 of the Code.  In other  words,  theirLordships examined the provisions of s. 561A and came to the(1) (1945) L.R. 72 I.A. 120, 132,			    1239conclusion  that  the  power to grant bail  to	a  convictedperson would not fit in :with the scheme of Chapter XXXIX ofthe  Code read with s. 561A.  In our opinion,  neither	thisdecision nor even the observations on which Shri Purushottamrelied can afford any assistance in deciding the point whichthis  appeal has raised before us.  Incidentally we may	 addthat  it  was as a result of the observations  made  by	 thePrivy  Council	in  that case that s. 426 of  the  Code	 wasamended in 1945 and power has been conferred on	 appropriatecourts	either to suspend the sentence or to grant  bail  asmentioned in the several subsections of s. 426.	 That is hows.  426(2A) and (2B) now deal with the subject of bail	eventhough	the  main section is a part of	Chapter	 XXXI  whichdeals with appeals, references and revisions.We  must accordingly hold that the view taken by the  BombayHigh  Court  about its inherent power to act  in  this	caseunder s. 561 A is right and must be confirmed.	It is hardlynecessary  to add that the inherent power conferred on	HighCourts	under  s.  561A	 has  to  be  exercised	 sparingly.,carefully  and with caution and only where such exercise  isjustified  "by	the  tests specifically	 laid  down  in	 thesection	 itself.  After all, procedure, whether criminal  orcivil,	must serve the higher purpose of justice; and it  isonly  when  the ends of justice are put in jeopardy  by	 theconduct	 of  the  accused that the inherent  power  can	 andshould	be exercised in cases like the present.	 The  resultis that the appeal fails and must be dismissed.Appeal dismissed.1240