PETITIONER:THOMAS DANA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:04/11/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  375		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 274 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC  29	 (22) RF	    1961 SC 663	 (8) R	    1962 SC 276	 (12,22) R	    1964 SC1140	 (9) F	    1970 SC 962	 (7) RF	    1971 SC  44	 (31) RF	    1972 SC 648	 (8)ACT:       Sea Customs-Confiscation of goods and imposition of  penalty       by  Collector of Customs-subsequent conviction and  sentence       by   Magistrate,	 if  violative	of  fundamental	 right	 to       protection  against double jeopardy-Constitution	 of  India,       Art. 20(2)-Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), ss..167(8) and       167(81).HEADNOTE:The  two  petitioners were apprehended while  attempting  tosmuggle	 a  huge amount of Indian and foreign  currency	 andother  contraband  goods out of India and the  Collector  ofCentral	 Excise and Land Customs passed orders	confiscatingthe  seized goods and imposing heavy personal  penalties  onboth of them under			    275s.   167(8)  of	 the  Sea  Customs  Act.   On  a  subsequentcomplaint made by the Customs Authorities on the same facts,the   petitioners  were	 convicted  and	 sentenced  by	 theAdditional   District	Magistrate  to	various	  terms	  ofimprisonment  under s. 23, read with s. 23B, of the  ForeignExchange  Regulation Act, s. i67(8I) of the Sea Customs	 Actand  s.	 120B  of the Indian  Penal  Code.   The  AdditionalSessions  judge	 in  appeal  affirmed  the  said  orders  ofconviction  and	 sentences  and the High  Court	 refused  tointerfere  in revision.	 It was contended on behalf  of	 thepetitioners,   who  had,  at  an  earlier  stage,  made	  anunsuccessful  attempt to move this Court under Art.  32	 andhave the prosecutions quashed, that the orders of convictionand  sentences passed on them by the Courts below  infringedthe   constitutional  protection  against  double   jeopardyafforded by Art. 20(2) Of the Constitution.Held,  (Per Das, C. J., Bhagwati, B. P. Sinha  and  Wanchoo,Jj.,  Subba  Rao, J., dissenting) that	the  contention	 waswithout substance and must be negatived.In  order to sustain a plea of double jeopardy and to  availof  the protection of Art. 20(2) of the Constitution it	 wasincumbent to show that (1) there was a previous prosecution,(2)  a	punishment and (3) that for the	 same  offence,	 andunless	all the three conditions were fulfilled the  Articledid not come into operation.  The word 'prosecution' as usedin  that  Article contemplated a proceeding  of	 a  criminalnature either before a court or a judicial tribunal.Maqbool	 Hussain v. The State of Bombay, [1953] S.C.R.	730,relied on.The  insertion	of s. 187A into the Sea Customs Act  by	 theamending  Act  of  1955, left no scope for  doubt  that	 thehierarchy  of Authorities under that Act functioned  not  asCourts	or judicial tribunals but as administrative  bodies,even though in recording evidence or hearing arguments	theyacted judicially.  The words " offences " and " penalties  "used  by  the  Act could not have the  same  meaning  as  inCriminal Law and a penalty or confiscation ordered under  s.167(8)	of  the	 Act could not be a punishment	such  as  isinflicted by a Criminal Court for a criminal offence.Sewpujanrai Indrasanrai Ltd. v. The Collector of Customs andothers, [1959] S.C.R. 821, referred to.Nor were the Customs Authorities invested with the powers ofa  Criminal  Court  under the Schedule to  s.  167  and	 theprocedure laid down by Ch.  XVII of the Act, and any  orderspassed	by  them  either in rem or in personal,	 by  way  ofconfiscation of the goods or imposition of penalties on	 theperson,	 could only be in the nature of administrative	onesmade in the interest of revenue and could not bar a criminalprosecution.Morgan	v. Devine, 59 L. Ed. 1153: 237 U. S. 632 and  UnitedStates	of America v. Anthony La Franca, 75 L. Ed. 551:	 282U. S. 568, considered.276The proceedings against the petitioners before the Collectorof Customs under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act could. nottherefore, be a prosecution within the meaning of Art. 20(2)Of  the	 Constitution and the petitioners were	not  put  todouble jeopardy.Per Subba Rao, J.-The prosecution of 'the petitioners beforethe Magistrate and the punishment inflicted on them directlyinfringed Art. 20(2) of the Constitution.There  can be no inconsistency in an authority under an	 Actfunctioning  in	 an administrative capacity  in	 respect  ofcertain	 specified  duties  while  it  acts  as	 a  judicialtribunal in respect of others, and the question as to  whichof  them  it  discharges in a judicial capacity	 has  to  bedecided on the facts of each case and in the light of  well-settled characteristics of a judicial tribunal.Cooper	v.  Wilson, [1937] 2 K. B. 309 and  Venkataraman  v.Union of India, [1954] S.C.R. 1150, relied on.Although  this	Court has held that the Sea  Customs  Autho-rities in adjudging confiscation do not function as judicialtribunals  but	as  mere  administrative  authorities,	 thequestion as to whether imposing personal penalties they	 actas judicial tribunals still remains open.Maqbool	 Hussain v. The State. of Bombay, [1953] S.C.R.	 730and  Sewpujanrai  Indrasanrai  Ltd.  v.	 The  Collector	  ofCustoms, [1959] S.C.R. 821, explained.An  examination of the entire scheme of the Sea Customs	 Actleaves	no manner of doubt that the Customs Authorities	 actas judicial tribunals so far as offences under s. 167 Of theAct are concerned.The word 'prosecuted' used in Art. 20(2) of the Constitutionis  comprehensive enough to include a prosecution before  anauthority  other than a Magistrate or a Criminal Court,	 andthe offences described in s. 167 Of the Sea Customs Act	 areoffences  within the meaning of the General Clauses Act	 andthe Indian Penal Code and the penalties prescribed  thereforare  nothing  but punishments inflicted for  those  offenceseither by the Customs Authorities or the Magistrate.The question of the identity of an offence has to be  deter-mined on the facts of each particular case and the real testis  whether  the previous prosecution  and  punishment	werebased  on  the	same facts on which  rested  the  subsequentprosecution and punishmentsJUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 65 of 1958.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of fundamental rights.			    ANDCRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CriminalAppeal No. 112 of 1958.277Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  28,  1958, of the Punjab High	 Court	in  CriminalRevision No. 145 of 1958.N.   C.	 Chatterjee and Nanak Chand, for the petitioner	 andthe appellant.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India, H  J.Umrigar,  R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for the respondent  inboth the matters.1958.	November  4. The Judgment of Das, C.  J.,  Bhagwati,Sinha and Wanchoo, JJ. was delivered by Sinha J., Subba Rao,J., delivered a separate judgment.SINHA,	J.-Petition  Nos. 65 of 1958, under Art. 32  of	 theConstitution,  on  behalf of one Thomas Dana,  and  CriminalAppeal	No. 112 of 1958, by special leave to appeal  grantedto  one	 Leo Roy Frey (appellant), raise  substantially	 thesame  question of some constitutional importance, and  have,therefore, been heard together, and will be covered by	thisjudgment.  The main question for determination in these	 twocases,	is  whether there has been an  infringement  of	 theconstitutional	protection granted under Art. 20(2)  of	 theConstitution.	For the sake of brevity and convenience,  weshall refer to Thomas Dana as the first petitioner, and	 LeoRoy  Frey, as the second petitioner, in the course  of	thisJudgment.The  relevant  facts are these : The first petitioner  is  aCuban  national.   He  came  to India  on  a  special  Cubanpassport  No. 11822, dated November 16, 1954, issued by	 theGovernment  of the Republic of Cuba.  The second  petitioneris  a citizen of the United States of America, and  holds  aU.S.A.	passport  No. 45252, dated July 1,  1955.   In	May,1957, both the petitioners were in Paris.  There, the secondpetitioner  purchased  a motor car from an  officer  of	 theAmerican  Embassy.  He is said to have sold that car to	 thefirst petitioner on May 14, 1957, and the same month, it wasregistered   in	 the  first  petitioner's  name.   The	 twopetitioners  sailed by the same steamer at the end  of	May.The car was also shipped by the same steamer.  They  reachedKarachi	 on June 11, 1957, and from there, flew	 to  Bombay.From June 11 to 19, 1957, they278stayed together in Hotel Ambassador in Bombay.	The car	 wasdelivered to the first petitioner in Bombay on June 13,	 andon  June  19, both of them flew from Bombay  to	 Delhi.	  InDelhi  also,  they stayed together at  Hotel  Janpath.	 Thefirst  petitioner received the car at Delhi by rail on	June22, and the same night, the two petitioners left by the saidcar  for Amritsar, where they reached after  mid-night,	 andstayed in Mrs. Bhandari's Lodge.  On the morning of June 23,they  reached Attari Road Land Customs Station by  the	samecar  (No.   CD	75  TT 6587).  On  arrival  at	Attari,	 thepetitioners  presented	themselves  for	 completing  customsformalities  for  crossing over to  Pakistan.	The  Customsofficers at Attari Road Land Customs Station, handed over tothem the Baggage Declaration forms, to declare the  articlesthat they had in their possession, including any goods whichwere  subject  to the Export Trade  Control  and/or  ForeignExchange  Restrictions,	 and/or	 were  dutiable.   Both	 thepetitioners completed the forms aforesaid, and handed  thosecompleted statements over to the Customs officers. The firstpetitioner declared the	 under-noted articles:-     Indian currency	    Rs. 40     Pakistan currency	    Rs. 50     U. S. Dollars	    $. 30.00     Gold ring		    I (valued at Rs. 100)     Personal effects	    Valued at $ 100.00     Car		    Valued at Rs. 15,000On  suspicion,	the Customs officers  searched	his  baggagewhich  was being carried in the car aforesaid.	 His  personwas also searched, and as a result of the search, the under-noted  articles	 which had not been declared  by  him,	wererecovered :-     Indian currency	 Rs. 900     Pakistan currency	 Rs. 250      U. S. Dollars	  $  1.00      Hong Kong Dollars	  $ 1100     Thailand currency	 78      Pocket radio	  1      Time-piece	  1279The  second petitioner, in his statement, had  declared	 thefollowing articles:-     Indian currency	 Rs. 40      U. S. Dollars  $ 500.00      U. S. Coins    $ 1.23     Belgian coins  BF 26.00     French coins   BF 205.00     Italian coins  L. 400.00     Wrist watch    I     Personal effects	 Rs. 1,00,000On  suspicion, the Customs staff searched the person of	 thesecond petitioner also.	 They recovered from him one  pistolof 22 bore with 48 live cartridges of the same bore.  As  hecould not produce a valid licence under the Indian law,	 thepistol	and the cartridges were handed over to	the  police,for  taking  appropriate action under the Indian  Arms	Act.The  car  was thoroughly searched, and as a  result  of	 theintensive search and minute examination on June 30, 1957,  asecret	chamber above the petrol tank, behind the hind	seatof the car, was discovered.  The chamber was opened, and thefollowing  things  which  had  not  been  declared  by	 thepetitioners, were recovered from inside the secret chamber:-     Indian currency	 Rs.  8,50,000     U. S. Dollars	  $  10,000.00     Empty tin containers     10(The containers bore     (rectangular)	     marks to indicate that			    they were used for			     carrying gold bars)     Mirror	    1.besides	 other insignificant things.  Under the Indian	law,Indian currency over Rs. 50, Pakistan currency over Rs.	 100and  any  foreign  currency, could not be  exported  out  ofIndia, without the permission of the Reserve Bank of  India.The  export of a pocket radio also required a valid  licenceunder  the  Imports and Exports (Control)  Act,	 1947.	 Thepetitioners  could  not	 produce, on  demand  the  requisitepermission from the Reserve Bank of India..' or the  licencefor  the  export  of  the pocket  radio,  or  a	 permit	 forexporting280a  time-piece,	as required by the Land Customs	 Act,  1924.The  car  also was handed over to the police  for  necessaryaction.	 The offending articles, namely     Indian currency	 Rs.8,50,900     Pakistan currency	 Rs.250     U. S. Dollars	 $ 10,001.00     Hong Kong Dollar	$.1.00     Thailand currency	T.78.00pocket radio, and the time-piece, etc., were seized under s.178 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878.  Both the petitioners weretaken into custody for infringement of the law.	 On July  7,both  the petitioners were called upon to show cause  beforethe Collector of Central Excise and Land Customs, New Delhi,why  a	penalty	 should not be imposed upon  them  under  s.167(8)	of  the Sea Customs Act, 1878, and  why	 the  seizedarticles  aforesaid,  should  not be  confiscated  under  s.167(8) and s. 168 of the Act.  Both the petitioners objectedto making any statements in answer to the show-cause notice,on  the	 ground	 that  the matter  was.	 subjudice  and	 anystatement  made	 by  them, might  prejudice  them  in  theirdefence.   But	at  the same  time,  the  second  petitionerdisclaimed  any	 connection with the car in  which  the	 twopetitioners  were  travelling, and which  had  been  seized.After some adjournments granted to the petitioners to  availthemselves   of	 the  opportunity  of  showing	cause,	 theCollector  of  Central Excise and Land Customs,	 New  Delhi,passed	orders on July 24, 1957.  He came to the  conclusionthat  the  petitioners	had planned to	smuggle	 Indian	 andforeign currency out of India, in contravention of the	law.They  had been acting in concert with each other,  and	had,throughout the different stages of their journey from Franceto India, been acting together, and while leaving India	 forPakistan,  were travelling together by the same	 car,  untilthey reached the Attari Road Land Customs Station, on  theirway  to Pakistan.  He directed that the different  kinds  ofcurrency  which	 had  been seized, as  aforesaid,  from	 thepossession of the petitioners, be " absolutely confiscated "for  contravention  of	s.  8(2)  of  the  Foreign  ExchangeRegulation Act, 1947, read with ss. 23-A281and  23-B of the Act.  He also directed the confiscation  ofthe car aforesaid, which could be redeemed on payment of a "redemption  fine  "  of Rs. 50,000.   He  also	ordered	 theconfiscation  of  the pocket radio and	the  time-piece	 andother articles seized, as aforesaid, under s. 167(8) of	 theSea  Customs Act, read with s. 5 of the Imports and  Exports(Control) Act, 1947, and s. 7 of the Land Customs Act, 1924.He  further imposed a personal penalty of Rs.  25,00,000  oneach of the petitioners, under s. 167(8) of the Sea  CustomsAct.After  making  further	inquiry, on  August  12,  1957,	 theAssistant Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Amritsar,under authority from the Chief Customs Officer, Delhi, fileda  complaint  against the petitioners and  a  third  person,named Moshe Baruk of Bombay, (since acquitted), under s. 23,read  with  s. 8, of the Foreign  Exchange  Regulation	Act,1947,  and  s. 167 (81) of the Sea Customs Act,	 1878.	 Thepetition  of  complaint, after stating the  facts  stated  -above, charged the accused persons with offences of attempt-ing  to	 take out of India Indian and foreign  currency,  incontravention  of  the provisions of the  Acts	referred  toabove.After recording considerable oral and documentary  evidence,the learned Additional District Magistrate, Amritsar, by hisjudgment dated November 13, 1957, convicted the petitioners,and sentenced them each to two years' rigorous	imprisonmentunder  s.  23, read with s. 23-B, of  the  Foreign  ExchangeRegulation  Act, six month's rigorous imprisonment under  s.120-B(2) of the Indian Penal Code, the sentences to run con-currently.   It is not necessary to set out the	 convictionsand sentences in respect of the third accused Moshe, who wassubsequently  acquitted	 by  the High Court  of	 Punjab,  inexercise  of  its  revisional  jurisdiction.   The   learnedMagistrate also, perhaps, out of abundant caution,  directedthat  " The entire amount of currency and  foreign  exchangeand the car in which the currency had been smuggled as	wellas the sleeveless shirt Ex.  P. 39 and belt Ex.	 P. 40 shallbe36282confiscated to Government ". This order of confiscation	 waspassed	by the criminal court, notwithstanding the fact,  asalready	 stated,  that the Collector of Central	 Excise	 andLand  Customs,	New Delhi, had ordered the  confiscation  ofthe-offending  articles under s. 167(8) of the	Sea  CustomsAct and the other relatedActs referred to above.On  appeal by the convicted persons, the learned  AdditionalSessions  Judge, Amritsar, by his judgment and order  dated.December  13,  1957,  dismissed	 the  appeal  after  a	veryelaborate examination of the facts and circumstances broughtout in the large volume of evidence adduced on behalf of theprosecution.   It  is riot necessary, for  the	purposes  ofthese cases, to set out in detail the findings arrived at bythe  appellate	court,	or  the	 evidence  on  which   thoseconclusions were based.	 It is enough to state that both thecourts	of fact agreed in coming to the conclusion that	 theaccused	 persons  had entered into a conspiracy	 to  smugglecontraband property out of this country.The  petitioners moved the High Court of Judicature for	 theState  of Punjab, separately, against their convictions	 andsentences  passed by the courts below, as  aforesaid.	Boththe revisional applications were dismissed summarily by	 thelearned	 Chief	Justice.  By his order	dated  February	 28,1958, the learned Chief Justice refused to certify that	 thecase was a fit one for appeal to this Court.The  petitioners  then moved this Court for,  and  obtained,special leave to appeal from the judgment and orders of	 thecourts	below,	convicting and sentencing  them,  as  statedabove.	 They  also  moved this Court for  writs  of  habeascorpus.	 The petition of the first petitioner for a writ  ofhabeas carp= was admitted, and was numbered as petition	 No.65 of 1958, and a rule issued.	The writ petition on  behalfof  the	 second petitioner was dismissed  in  limited.	 Allthese  orders were passed on April 28, 1958.   Subsequently,the first petitioner moved this Court for revocation of	 thespecial	 leave granted to him, and for an early	 hearing  ofhis  writ  petition  No.  65 of	 1958,	as  the	 points	 forconsideration were common to both the cases.  This			    283Court granted the prayers by its order dated May 13,1958.Before dealing with the arguments advanced on behalf of	 thepetitioners,  in order to complete the narrative  of  eventsleading	 up to the filing of the cases in this Court, it  isnecessary to state that the petitioners had moved this Courtseparately under Art. 32 of the Constitution, against  theirprosecution  in the Magistrate's court, after the  aforesaidorders of confiscation and penalty, passed by the  Collectorof  Customs.   They prayed for a writ of  certiorari  and/orprohibition,  and for quashing the proceedings.	  There	 wasalso a prayer for a writ in the nature of habeas corpus.  Onthat occasion also, the protection afforded by Art. 20(2) ofthe  Constitution,  was pressed in aid of  the	petitioners'writ  applications.  This Court, after hearing the  parties,dismissed  those  writ petitions, holding  that	 the  chargeagainst the petitioners included an offence under s.120B  ofthe  Indian Penal Code, which certainly was not one  of	 theheads  of  charge  against  them  before  the  Collector  ofCustoms.   This	 Court,	 therefore,  without  deciding	 theapplicability  of  the	provisions  of	Art.  20(2)  of	 theConstitution, to the facts and circumstances of the  presentcase,  refused	to  quash  the	prosecution.   The  questionwhether	 Art.  20(2) of the Constitution,  barred  the	pro-secution of the petitioners under the provisions of the	 SeaCustoms	 Act  and the Foreign Exchange Regulation  Act,	 wasapparently  left open for future determination, if and	whenthe  occasion  arose.	In  view of  the  events  that	havehappened since after the passing of the order of this Court,dated  October 31, 1957, (reported in [1958] S. C. R.  822),it has now become necessary to determine that controversy.It  was vehemently argued on behalf of the petitioners	thatthe  prosecution of the petitioners under the provisions  ofthe Acts aforesaid, and their convictions and imposition  ofsentences  by  the  courts below,  infringe  the  protectionagainst	 double	 jeopardy  enshrined in Art.  20(2)  of	 theConstitution, which is in these terms284"  No person shall be prosecuted and punished, for the	sameoffence more than once."It is manifest that in order to bring the petitioners'	casewithin the prohibition of Art. 20(2), it must be shown	thatthey  had  been	 "  prosecuted "  before  the  Collector  ofCustoms,  and " punished " by him for the " same  offence  "for which they have been convicted and punished as a  resultof  the	 judgment  and	orders	of  the	 courts	 below,	 nowimpugned.   If any one of these three essential	 conditions,is  not fulfilled, that is to say, if it is not	 shown	thatthe  petitioners  had  been  it	 prosecuted  "	before	 theCollector of Customs, or that they had been " punished "  byhim  in	 the  proceedings  before  him,	 resulting  in	 theconfiscation of the properties aforesaid, and the impositionof a heavy penalty of Rs. 25,00,000, each, or that they	 hadbeen  convicted and " sentenced" for the " same	 offence  ",the petitioners will have failed to bring their case  withinthe  prohibition of Art. 20(2).	 It has been argued, in	 thefirst  instance, on behalf of the petitioners that they	 hadbeen  " prosecuted " within the meaning of the article.	  Onthe other hand, the learned Additional Solicitor-General hascountered that argument by the contention that the  previousadjudication  by  the  Collector  of  Customs,	was  by	  anadministrative body which has to act judicially, as held  bythis  Court  in F. N. Roy v. Collector	of  Customs(1),	 andreiterated in Leo Roy Frey v. Superintendent, District Jail,Amritsar  (2);	but the Collector was not a  criminal  courtwhich could in law, be said to have tried the petitioner foran  offence under the Indian Penal Code, or under the  penalprovisions of the other Acts mentioned above.It  is, therefore, necessary first to consider	whether	 thepetitioners had really been prosecuted before the  Collectorof  Customs,  within  the  meaning  of	Art.  20(2).   To  "prosecute  ", in the special sense of law, means,  accordingto  Webster's Dictionary, " (a) to seek to obtain,  enforce,or the like, by legal process; as, to prosecute a right or aclaim  in a court of law. (b) to pursue (a person) by  legalproceedings for redress or(1) [1957] S.C.R. 1151.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 822.285punishment; to proceed against judicially; espy., to  accuseof some crime or breach of law, or to pursue for redress  orpunishment of a crime or violation of law, in due legal formbefore	a  legal  tribunal;  as,  to  prosecute	 a  man	 fortrespass,  or  for  a  riot."  According  to  Wharton's	 LawLexicon,  14th	edn.,  p. 810, " prosecution  "	 means	"  aproceeding  either by way of indictment or information,,  inthe  criminal courts, in order to put an offender  upon	 histrial.	 In all criminal prosecutions the King is  nominallythe  prosecutor." This very question was discussed  by	thisCourt in the case of Maqbool Hussain v. The State of  Bombay(1),  with of reference to the context in which the  word  "prosecution  "	occurred in Art. 20.  In the course  of	 thejudgment, the following observations, which apply with	fullforce to the present case, were made:-".......  and the prosecution in this context would mean  aninitiation  or starting of proceedings of a criminal  naturebefore	a court of law or a judicial tribunal in  accordancewith  the procedure prescribed in the statute which  createsthe offence and regulates the procedure."In that case, this Court discussed in detail the  provisionsof the Sea Customs Act, with particular reference to ChapterXVI,  headed  " Offences and Penalties	".  After  examiningthose	provisions,  this  Court  came	to   the   followingconclusion:-"We are of the opinion that the Sea Customs Authorities	 arenot a judicial tribunal and the adjudgeing of  confiscation,increased  rate of duty or penalty under the  provisions  ofthe Sea Customs Act do not constitute a judgment or order ofa  court or judicial tribunal necessary for the	 purpose  ofsupporting a plea of double jeopardy."The   learned	counsel	 for  the   petitioners,   did	 notcategorically  attack the correctness of that decision,	 butsuggested  that	 that  case could be  distinguished  on	 theground that in the present case, unlike the case then beforethis Court, a heavy penalty of Rs. 25,00,000 on each of	 thepetitioners, was imposed by the Collector of Central  Exciseand Land Customs,(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 730, 738, 739, 743.286besides	 ordering  confiscation of properties  and  currencyworth  over 81 lacs.  But that circumstance alone cannot  besufficient  in law to distinguish the previous	decision  ofthis  Court, which is otherwise directly in  point.   Simplybecause the Revenue Authorities took a very serious view  ofthe  smuggling	activities of the petitioners,	and  imposedvery heavy penalties under item 8 of the Schedule to s.	 167of  the	 Sea  Customs Act, would  not  convert	the  RevenueAuthorities  into  a  court  of law,  if  the  Act  did	 notcontemplate their functioning as such.	That the Sea CustomsAct did not envisage the Chief Customs Officer or the  otherofficers   under  him  in  the	hierarchy  of  the   RevenueAuthorities  under the Act, to function as a Court, is	madeabsolutely  clear  by certain provisions of that  Act.	 Themost  important	 of  those is the new  s.  187A,  which	 wasinserted  by the Sea Customs (Amendment) Act, (21 of  1955).That section is in these terms:"187A.	No  Court  shall  take	cognizance  of	any  offencerelating  to Smuggling of goods punishable under item 81  ofthe  Schedule  to  section 167,	 except	 upon  complaint  inwriting,  made	by the Chief Customs officer  or  any  otherofficer	 of  Customs  not lower in rank	 than  an  AssistantCollector of Customs authorized in this behalf by the  ChiefCustoms officer."This  section makes it clear that the Chief Customs  Officeror any other officer lower in rank than him, in the  Customsdepartment,  is	 not  a	 " court ",  and  that	the  offencepunishable  under item 81 of the Schedule to s. 167,  cannotbe taken cognizance of by any court, except upon a complaintin  writing,  made,  as prescribed in  that  section.	Thissection, in our opinion, sets at rest the controversy, whichhas been raised in the past upon certain expressions, like "offences " and " penalties used in Chapter XVI.	 These wordshave  been used in that Chapter in their generic  sense	 andnot  in	 their specific sense under the penal law.   When  aproceeding by the Revenue Officers is meant, as is the	casein  most  of  the items in the Schedule	 to  s.	 167,  thoseofficers  have	been empowered to deal	with  the  offendingarticles by way of confiscation, or with the person287infringing those rules, by way of imposition of penalties incontradistinction  to a sentence of imprisonment or fine  orboth.	When  a criminal prosecution and punishment  of	 thecriminal,  in the sense of the Penal law, is  intended,	 thesection	 makes	a  specific  reference	to  a  trial  by   aMagistrate,  a	conviction by such Magistrate, and  on	suchconviction,  to	 imprisonment or to fine or both.   In	thisconnection, reference may be made to the penalties mentionedin the third column against items 72, 74, 75, 76, 76A,	76B,77,  78	 and 81, which illustrate the latter  class  of	 thepenalty	 in column 3. The penalties mentioned in  the  thirdcolumn of most of the items of the Schedule to s. 167 of theAct,  do  not  make  any reference  to	a  conviction  by  aMagistrate and punishment by him in terms of imprisonment orof  fine  or  of both.	For example,  item  76C,  which	 wasinserted by the Sea Customs Amendment Act X of 1957, in	 thethird  column  meant  for penalties, has only  this  "	suchvessel	shall  be liable to confiscation and the  master  ofsuch  vessel shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding	 onethousand rupees".  Item 76A, on the other hand, specificallymentioning  conviction, imprisonment and fine, was  insertedby Sea Customs Act XXI of 1955.	 Both the amending Acts,  bywhich  the aforesaid additional offences were  created,	 andpenalties  prescribed,	were enacted after the	coming	intoforce of the Constitution.  The Legislature was,  therefore,aware of the distinction made throughout the Schedule to  s.167, between a proceeding before Revenue authorities by	 wayof  enforcing  the preventive and penal	 provisions  of	 theSchedule  and a criminal trial before a Magistrate,  with  aview to punishing offenders under the provisions of the samesection.  It is, therefore, in the teeth of these provisionsto  contend that the imposition of a penalty by the  Revenueofficers  in the hierarchy created by the Act, is  the	samething as a punishment imposed by a criminal court by way  ofpunishment for a criminal offence.This  distinction has been very clearly brought out  in	 therecent	judgment  of this Court in the case  of	 SewpujanraiIndrasanrai Ltd. v. The Collector of288Customs(2).   In  that case, though the question  of  doublejeopardy under Art. 20(2) of the Constitution, had not	beenraised,	 this  Court has pointed out the difference  in	 thenature	 of  proceedings  against  offending  articles	 andoffending  persons.  A proceeding under the Sea Customs	 Actand  the  corresponding provisions of the  Foreign  ExchangeRegulation  Act,  in respect of goods which  have  been	 thesubject-matter	of  the proceeding, has been held to  be  ofthe-nature  of	a proceeding in rem  whereas,  a  proceedingagainst	 a  person concerned in smuggling goods	 within	 thepurview	 of  those  Acts,  is  a  proceeding  in   personam,resulting  in  the  imposition of a  punishment	 by  way  ofimprisonment  or fine on him, where the offender  is  known.In  the former case, the offender may not have	been  known,but still the offending goods seized may be confiscated as aresult	of  the	 proceedings  in rem.	That  case  was	 notconcerned  with	 the further question whether,	besides	 theliability  to  the penalty as contemplated by  s.  23(1)(a),namely, a penalty not exceeding three times the value of theforeign	 exchange in respect of which the contravention	 hadtaken  place, the person contravening the provisions of	 theForeign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947, upon conviction by  acourt,	is  also  punishable  with  imprisonment  which	  s.23(1)(b)  prescribes, namely, imprisonment for a term  whichmay  extend  to 2 years, or with fine, or  with	 both.	 Thedecision of this Court (supra) is also an authority for	 theproposition that in imposing confiscation and penalty  underthe  Sea  Customs Act, the Collector acts  judicially.	 Butthat  is  not the same thing as holding that  the  Authorityunder s. 167 of the Act, functions as a Judicial Tribunal oras  a  Court.	An  Administra.	 five  Tribunal,  like	 theCollector  and other officers in the hierarchy, may have  toact  judicially in the sense of having to consider  evidenceand hear arguments in an informal way, but the Act does	 notcontemplate that in so doing, it is functioning as a  court.As  already pointed out, s. 187A, which was inserted by	 theAmending  Act  of  1955 (21 of 1955), brings  out,  in	boldrelief, the legal position that the Chief Customs(I)  [1959] S.C.R. 821.289Officer	 or any other officer of Customs, does not  functionas a court or as a Judicial Tribunal.  All criminal offencesare offences, but all offences in the sense of	infringementof  a law, are not criminal offences.  Likewise,  the  otherexpressions have been used in their generic sense and not asthey  are understood in the Indian Penal Code or other	lawsrelating  to  criminal	offences.   Section  167  speaks  ofoffences mentioned in the first column in the Schedule,	 andthe third column in that Schedule lays down the penalties inrespect of each of the contravention of the rules or of	 thesections in the Act.  There are as many as 81 entries in theSchedule to s. 167, besides those added later, but each	 oneof  those 81 and more entries, though an offence,  being  anact  infringing	 certain provisions of the  section  is	 andrules under the Act, is not a criminal offence.	 Out of	 themore  than 81 entries in the Schedule to s. 167, it is	onlyabout a dozen entries, which contemplate prosecution in	 thecriminal sense, the remaining entries contemplate  penaltiesother	than  punishments  for	a  criminal  offence.	 Theprovisions  of Chapter XVII of the Act, headed	"  Procedurerelating  to  offences, Appeals, etc.", also make  it  clearthat  the  hierarchy of the Customs Officers under  the	 Acthave not been empowered to try criminal offences.  They havebeen  only given limited powers of search.  Similarly,	theyhave  been  given limited powers to summon persons  to	giveevidence  or  to  produce documents.  It is  true  that	 theCustoms Authorities have been empowered to start proceedingsin  respect of suspected infringements of the provisions  ofthe Act, and to impose penalties upon persons concerned withthose  infringements, or to order confiscation of  goods  orproperty  which are found to have been the subjectmatter  ofthe  infringements,  but  when	a trial on  a  charge  of  acriminal offence is intended under any one of the entries ofthe  Schedule  aforesaid, it is only the  Magistrate  havingjurisdiction,  who  is	empowered to impose  a	sentence  ofimprisonment or fine or both.it was also suggested in the course of the argument that theuse of a particular phraseology in the Act, 37290should	not stand in the way of looking at the substance  ofthe matter.  It may be that the Act has drawn a	 distinctionbetween	 confiscation of property and goods, and  impositionof penalties on persons concerned with the infringement,  onthe   one  hand,  and  the  imposition	of  a  sentence	  ofimprisonment  or fine or both by a Magistrate, on the  otherhand; but, it is further contended, the Customs Authorities,who  impose a penalty or who order confiscation of goods  ofvery  large  value, are in  substance  imposing	 punishmentswithin the meaning of the criminal law.	 In this connection,our particular attention was drawn to para. 24 of the  orderdated  July  24, 1957, passed by the  Collector	 of  CentralExcise	and  Land  Customs, New Delhi,	which  is  in  theseterms:-" 24.  Having regard to all the circumstances of the case, Ifind  that  both Sarvshri Thomas Dana and Leo Roy  Frey	 areequally	 guilty of the offence.	 They attempted	 to  smuggleIndian	and foreign currency out of India.  I hold  both  ofthem as the persons concerned in the offence committed undersection 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878.  The  foregoingfacts prove beyond doubt that the offence was the result  ofthe  most  deliberate and calculated conspiracy	 to  smugglethis  huge  amount  of currency out  of	 the  country.	 Theoffenders,  therefore,	deserve	 deterrent  punishment.	  1,therefore,  impose  a  personal	 penalty  of  Rs.  25,00,000(Rupees twenty-five lakhs only) each on Shri Thomas Dana andShri  Leo  Roy Frey which should be paid within	 two  monthsfrom  the date of this order or such extended period as	 theadjudicating officer may allow."The expressions " equally guilty of the offence the  offencewas  the  result  of  the  most	 deliberate  and  calculatedconspiracy to smuggle ", and " deserve deterrent  punishment", have been greatly emphasized in aid of the argument	thatthe Collector had really intended to punish the	 petitionersin respect of the " offence", and found them ',guilty".	  Itis  true  that	these  expressions  are	 commonly  used	  injudgments  given in criminal trials, but the  same  argumentcan be used291against	 the  petitioners by saying that  mere	nomenclaturedoes  not matter.  What really matters is whether there	 hasbeen a " prosecution ".It is true that the petitioners were dealt with by theCollector of Central Excise and Land Customs, for the" offence"  of  smuggling; were found " guilty ", and a	deterrent  "punishment  " was imposed upon them, but as he had not	beenvested with the powers of a Magistrate or a criminal  court,his  proceedings against the petitioners were in the  natureof  Revenue  proceedings,  with	 a  view  to  detecting	 theinfringement  of the provisions of the Sea Customs Act,	 andimposing  penalties  when-it was found that  they  had	beenguilty	 of  those  infringements.   Those  penalties,	 theCollector had been empowered to impose in order not only  toprevent	 a  recurrence of such infringements,  but  also  torecoup	the  loss of revenue resulting from  such  infringe-ments.	A person may be guilty of certain acts which  exposehim  to a criminal prosecution for a criminal offence, to  apenalty	 under	the  law intended  to  collect	the  maximumrevenue under the Taxing law, and/or, at the same time, makehim  liable  to damages in torts. For example,	an  assesseeunder the Income-tax law, may have submitted a false  returnwith  a	 view to defrauding the Revenue.   His	fraud  beingdetected, the Taxing Officer may realise from him an  amountwhich may be some multiple of the amount of tax sought to beevaded.	  But the fact that he has been subjected to such  apenalty by the Taxing Authorities, may not avail him againsta criminal prosecution for the offence of having submitted areturn	 containing  false  statements	to  his	  knowledge.Similarly,  a  person may use  defamatory  language  againstanother	 person who may recover damages in tort against	 themaker  of such a defamatory statement.	But the fact that  adecree for damages has been passed against him by the  civilcourt,	would not stand in the way of his  being  prosecutedfor  defamation.  In such cases, the law does not allow	 himthe plea of double jeopardy.That  this is the law in America also, is borne out  by	 thefollowing quotation from the " Constitution292of  the United States of America "-revised and annotated  in1952 by Edward S. Corwin-at p. 840:-"A  plea of former jeopardy must be upon a  prosecution	 forthe  same  identical  offense.	 The  test  of	identity  ofoffenses is whether the same evidence is required to sustainthem;  if  not,	 the fact that both charges  relate  to	 onetransaction  does  not make a single offense where  two	 aredefined	 by the statutes.  Where a person is convicted of  acrime  which includes several incidents, a second trial	 forone of those incidents puts him twice in jeopardy.  Congressmay impose both criminal and civil sanctions with respect tothe  same act or omission, and may separate a conspiracy  tocommit	a  substantive offense from the	 commission  of	 theoffense and affix to each a different penalty.	A convictionfor the conspiracy may be had though the subsequent  offensewas  not  completed.  Separate convictions  under  differentcounts	charging  a  monopolization  and  a  conspiracy	  tomonopolize  trade,  in	an  indictment	under  the   ShermanAntitrust Act, do not amount to double jeopardy......"......	  A   forfeiture  proceeding  for   defrauding	 theGovernment of a tax on alcohol diverted to beverage uses  isa proceeding in rem, rather than a punishment for a criminaloffense,  and  may  be	prosecuted  after  a  conviction  ofconspiracy to violate the statute imposing the tax."To the same effect is the following placitum tinder Art. 240in Vol. 22 of 'Corpus Juris Secundum', headed " Offenses andProceedings in Which Former Jeopardy Is a Defense ":-"  The	doctrine applies to criminal  prosecution  only	 andgenerally  to misdemeanours as well as felonies.   A  formerconviction   or	 acquittal  does  not  ordinarily   precludesubsequent  in	rem proceedings, civil	actions	 to  recoverstatutory penalties or exemplary damages, or proceedings  toabate a nuisance."On  behalf of the petitioners, their learned counsel  placedreliance upon the two American decisions in Morgan v. Zevine(1) and United States of America v.(1)  59 L. Ed. 1153; 237 U.S. 632.293Anthony	 La  Franca  (,).  The	former	decision  is  reallyagainst	 the contention of double jeopardy, raised  in	thiscase.	That case lays down that persons who  steal  postagestamps	and  postal funds from a post office of	 the  UnitedStates,	 after having committed burglary, and  thus,  havingeffected  their	 entry	into  the  premises,  committed	 twodistinct  offences  which  may	be  separately	charged	 andpunished under the United States' Penal Code.  Two  separateconvictions  and Sentences as for two distinct	offences  inthose  circumstances  were  not held  to  be  within  doublejeopardy   within   the	 meaning  of  the   United   States'Constitutional	5th  Amendment.	 The reason  given  for	 thedecision against the contention of double jeopardy was	thatthough	 the  offences	had  been  committed  in  the	sametransaction, they had been constituted separate and distinctoffences  by the United States' Penal Code-articles 190	 and192.   In the latter case, the plea of double  jeopardy	 wasgiven effect to because the special statutes,  infringementsof  which  formed  the	subjectmatter  of  the	controversy,namely, for unlawfully selling intoxicating liquor, had madea  specific  provision	that if any act is  a  violation  ofearlier	 laws in regard to the manufacture and	taxation  ofand traffic in intoxicating liquor, and also of the NationalProhibition Act, a conviction for such act or offence  underone  statute, shall be a bar to prosecution  therefor  underthe  other.  It is clear, therefore, that where there  is  aspecific  statutory  provision creating a bar  to  a  secondprosecution,  the court is bound to give effect to the	pleaof double jeopardy.  It is not necessary to refer to certaindecisions of the English courts, relied upon by the  learnedcounsel	 for  the  petitioners,	 because  those	 cases	 hadreference  to the question whether certain orders passed  bycertain	 courts were or were not made in a criminal case  ormatter	within	the  meaning  of  the  statutes	 then  underconsideration before the court.	 Those are observations madewith reference to the terms of those statutes, and are of noassistance in the present controversy.	The learned  counselfor the petitioners was not able to produce before us any(1)  75 L.  Ed. 551 ; 282 U.S. 568.294authority  in support of the proposition that once a  personhas  been  dealt  with by the  Revenue	Authorities  for  aninfringement of the law against smuggling, he cannot also beprosecuted in a criminal court for a criminal offence.In view of these considerations, and particularly in view ofthe decision of this Court in the case of Maqbool Hussain v.The  State  of	Bombay	(1), there is  no  escape  from	 theconclusion  that  the  proceedings before  the	Sea  CustomsAuthorities under s. 167(8) were not " prosecution "  withinthe  meaning  of Art. 20 (2) of the Constitution.   In	thatview  of the matter, it is not necessary to  pronounce	uponthe  other  points  which were argued at  the  Bar,  namely,whether	 there was a " punishment " and whether "  the	sameoffence " was involved in the proceedings before the RevenueAuthorities  and the criminal court.  Unless all  the  threeessential  conditions laid down in el. (2) of Art.  20,	 arefulfilled,  the protection does not become  effective.	 Theprohibition   against  double  jeopardy	 would	not   becomeoperative if any one of those elements is wanting.It remains to consider a short point raised particularly  onbehalf	of  the second petitioner (Leo Roy  Frey).   It	 wasargued	that the letter Ex.  P. DD/2, admittedly written  byhim  to his father in German, had not been specifically	 putto  him with a view to eliciting his explanation as  to	 thecircumstances  and the sense in which it had  been  written.The learned Magistrate in the trial court put the  followingquestion (No. 20) to him :-" It is in evidence that Ex.  P. FF/I is the translation  ofthe letter Ex.	P. DD/2.  What have you to say about itThe  answer given by the accused to this question was "	 Thetranslation of Ex.  P. FF/I is mostly correct except for fewvariations which could have been due to misinterpretation ofhandwriting  ".	 It is clear from the  question	 and  answerquoted	above,	that the learned Magistrate  did  afford  anopportunity to this petitioner to explain the  circumstancesappearing in the(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 730, 738, 739, 743-			    295evidence  against  him	with  particular  reference  to	 theletter.	  If  the  court  had  persisted  in  putting	morequestions  with	 reference to that letter, perhaps,  it	 mayhave  been argued that the examination under s. 342  of	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure, was in the nature of  a  cross-examination  of the accused person, which is not  permitted.In our opinion, there is no substance in the contention thatthe petitioner had not been properly examined under s.	342,Criminal  Procedure  Code,  to	explain	 the   circumstancesappearing in the evidenceagainst him.It  follows from what has been said above, that there is  nomerit  either in the appeal or in the petition.	  They	are,accordingly dismissed.SUBBA  RAO,  J.-I  have had the	 advantage  of	reading	 thejudgment prepared by Sinha J., but I cannot persuade  myselfto agree with my learned brother.The  facts  are fully stated in the judgment of	 my  learnedbrother and therefore it would suffice if I restate  brieflythe facts strictly relevant to the question raised.  On June11,  1957, the petitioner arrived at Bombay, later  came  toDelhi  and  from there he travelled to Amritsar	 by  car  incompany with Mr. Leo Roy Frey.	On June 23, 1957, he reachedAttari	Road Land Customs Station and was arrested under  s.173  of	 the  Sea Customs Act, 1878 (Act VIII  of  1878)  onsuspicion of having committed an offence thereunder.  He wasserved with a notice by the Collector of Central Excise	 andLand Customs, New Delhi, on July 7, 1957, to show cause	 whypenalty should not be imposed on him under s. 167(8) of	 theSea Customs Act (hereinafter called the Act) and s. 7(2)  ofthe Land Customs Act, 1924, and why the goods should not  beconfiscated.   By order dated July 24, 1957, the  petitionerwas adjudged guilty under s. 167(8) of the Act and  currencyof  the	 value of over 9 lakhs, car worth  Rs.	50,000,	 andother  things  were confiscated, and he	 was  punished	withpersonal penalty of Rs. 25,00,000.  The petitioner was againprosecuted on the same facts before the Additional  DistrictMagistrate, Amritsar, on charges under s. 167(81) of the Actand ss. 23 and 23B of the296Foreign	 Exchange  Regulation  Act.  'He  was  convicted  oncharges under s. 23 read with s. 23B of the Foreign ExchangeRegulation  Act,  s. 167(81) of the Act and s. 120B  of	 theIndian Penal Code and sentenced to imprisonments of 2 years,6  months  and	6 months  respectively	by  'the  AdditionalDistrict Magistrate, Amritsar.	The conviction and sentenceswere  confirmed on appeal by the Additional Sessions  Judge,and the revision filed in the High Court was dismissed.The  learned  counsel for the petitioner contends  that	 theCourts	in  punishing  him violated  the  fundamental  rightconferred on him under Art. 20(2) of the Constitution as  hehag been prosecuted and punished for the same offence by theCollector  of  Customs.	 The  learned  Additional  SolicitorGeneral	  counters  this  argument  by	stating	  that	 thepetitioner  was	 not prosecuted earlier	 before	 a  judicialtribunal  and punished by such tribunal, and, in  any  view,the  prosecution was not for the same offence with which  hewas  charged before the Magistrate, and therefore this	casedoes  not  fall within the Constitutional  protection  givenunder Art. 20(2).Before addressing myself to the arguments advanced it  wouldbe convenient at this stage to steer clear of two  decisionsof this Court.	The first is Maqbool Hussain v. The State ofBombay	(1).   There proceedings had been taken by  the	 SeaCustoms Authorities under s. 167(8) of the Act and an  orderfor  confiscation  of  goods had been  passed.	 The  personconcerned was subsequently prosecuted before the  PresidencyMagistrate  for	 an  offence  under s.	23  of	the  ForeignExchange  Regulation Act in respect of the same	 act.	ThisCourt  held  that  the proceeding  before  the	Sea  CustomsAuthorities  was  not  a  prosecution  and  the	 order	 forconfiscation was -not a punishment inflicted by a Court or ajudicial  tribunal within the meaning of Art. 20(2)  of	 theConstitution  and  the	prosecution  was  not  barred.	 Theimportant factor to be noticed in that case is that the	 SeaCustoms	 Authorities  did  not proceed	against	 the  personconcerned  but	only  confiscated the  goods  found  in	 hispossession.  At page(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 730.297742  Bhagwati J. says " Confiscation is no doubt one of	 thepenalties  which  the Customs Authorities can  impose.	 Butthat  is  more	in the nature of  proceedings  in  rem	thanproceedings in personal, the object being to confiscate	 theoffending  goods which have been dealt with contrary to	 theprovisions  of the law......... Though the  observations  inthe judgment cover a wider field. I shall deal with them  ata later stage the decision could be sustained on the  simpleground	that the previous proceedings were not	against	 theperson	concerned  and therefore he was not  prosecuted	 andpunished for the same offence for which he was	subsequentlyproceeded  against  in	the  Criminal  Court.	The   seconddecision is Sewpujanrai Indrasanrai Ltd. v. The Collector ofCustoms (1).  There also the Customs Authorities confiscatedthe  goods found in the possession of the appellant.   Unders.  8(3) of the Foreign Exchange Act, a restriction  imposedby  notification made under that section-is deemed  to	havebeen imposed under s. 19 of the Sea Customs Act, and all theprovisions  of	the  Sea  Customs  Act	shall  have   effectaccordingly.   But the said deeming provision is subject  toan important qualification contained in the words '  withoutprejudice to the provisions of s. 23 of the former Act'.  Itwas  argued that by reason of the provisions of s.  8(3)  ofthe  Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, the appellant  shouldhave  been proceeded against under s. 23 of that Act and  itwas  not  open	to the Customs Authorities  to	take  actionagainst the offender under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act.This Court negatived that contention accepting the principlethat  confiscation of the goods under s. 167(8) of  the	 SeaCustoms	 Act  was an action in rem and not a  proceeding  inpersonal.  Das, J., who delivered the judgment of the  Courtmade  the  following  observations  in	repelling  the	saidargument:The  penalty provided is that the goods shall be  liable  toconfiscation.	There is a further provision in the  penaltycolumn	that any person concerned in any such offence  shallbe liable to a penalty not exceeding(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 82I.298three  times the value of the goods etc.  The point to	noteis  that  so  far  as  the  confiscation  of  the  goods  isconcerned,  it	is a proceeding in rem and  the	 penalty  isenforced against the goods whether the offender is known  ornot  known;  the  order of confiscation under  s.  182,	 SeaCustoms	 Act,  operates	 directly upon	the  status  of	 theproperty,  and under s. 184 transfers an absolute  title  toGovernment.    Therefore,  in  a  case	where  the   Customsauthorities can proceed only against the goods, there can beno  question of applying s. 23 of the Foreign  Exchange	 Actand  even on the construction put forward on behalf  of	 theappellant company as respects s. 8(3), the remedy under	 theSea  Customs  Act  against  the	 smuggled  goods  cannot  bebarred."This  decision also indicates that the confiscation  of	 thegoods  is  an  action  in rem and is  not  a  proceeding  inpersonam.  A combined effect of the aforesaid two  decisionsmay be stated thus:Section	 167(8)	 of the Act provides for the  following	 twokinds  of penalties when contraband goods are imported	intoor  exported from India: (1) such goods shall be  liable  toconfiscation;  (2) any person concerned in any such  offenceshall  be liable to a penalty.	If the	authority  concernedmakes  an. order of confiscation it is only a proceeding  inrem  and the penalty is enforced against the goods.  On	 theother  hand,  if  it imposes a penalty	against	 the  personconcerned,  it is a proceeding against the person and he  ispunished for committing the offence.  It follows that in thecase  of  confiscation there is no prosecution	against	 theperson	or imposition of a penalty on him.  If the  premisesbe  correct, the subsequent prosecution of the	person	con-cerned	cannot	be  affected  by  the  principle  of  doublejeopardy,  as  he  was not prosecuted  or  punished  in	 theearlier	 proceedings.  But the question that arises in	thiscase is whether, when there was a proceeding in personam anda  penalty  was imposed upon the person concerned  under  s.167(8)	of the Act, he could be prosecuted and	punished  inregard to the same act before another tribunal.On the facts of this case it is manifest that the299petitioner was prosecuted before the Magistrate for the sameact in respect of which a penalty of Rs. 25,00,000 had	beenimposed	 on him by the Collector of Customs under s.  167(8)of  the	 Act.  The question is whether the  prosecution	 andpunishment of the petitioner infringed his fundamental rightunder Art. 20(2) of the Constitution.  It reads:"  No person shall be prosecuted and punished for  the	sameoffence more than once."The  words  of this Article are clear  and  unambiguous	 andtheir  plain  meaning  is  that there  cannot  be  a  secondprosecution  where  the	 accused  has  been  prosecuted	 andpunished  for the same offence previously.  The clause	usesthe three words of well-known connotation: (1)	Prosecution;(2)  punishment;  and  (3) offence.  The  word	offence'  isdefined	 in  s. 3(38) of the General Clauses Act,  1897,  tomean any act or omission made punishable by any law for	 thetime  being  in force.	Under s. 4 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure,  it means any act or omission made punishable  byany  law  for  the  time being	in  force.   An	 offence  istherefore an act committed against law or omitted where	 thelaw requires it.Punishment is the penalty for the transgression of law.	 Theterms  'punishment'  and 'penalty' are	frequently  used  assynonyms of each other; and, indeed under cl. (I)of Art.  20of the Constitution the word penalty issued in the sense  ofpunishment. The	    punishments	  to  which  offenders	 areliable under the    provisions	of  the -Indian	 Penal	Codeare: (1) death; (2) imprisonment for life; (3) imprisonment,which is of two descriptions, viz., (1) rigorous, i.e., withhard labour; and (ii) simple; (4) for feature of property  ;and (6) fine.The  word 'prosecuted' is comprehensive enough to take in  aprosecution before an authority other than a magisterial  ora   criminal  Court.   Having  regard  to   the	  historicalbackground, a restricted meaning has been placed upon it  bythis  Court in Maqbool Hussain v. The State of	Bombay	(1).Bhagwati,  J.,	in  delivering the  Judgment  of  the  Courtobserved at page 742 thus:(I)  [1953] S.C.R. 730.300Even though the customs officers are invested with the powerof  adjudging  confiscation,  increased	 rates	of  duty  orpenalty,  the highest penalty which can be inflicted is	 Rs.1,000.	Confiscation is no doubt one of the penalties  whichthe Customs Authorities can impose, but that is more in	 thenature	of proceedings in rem than proceedings in  personam,the  object  being to confiscate the offending	goods  whichhave  been dealt with contrary to the provisions of the	 lawand  in respect of the confiscation also an option is  givento  the	 owner of the goods to pay in lieu  of	confiscationsuch  fine as the officer thinks fit.  All this is  for	 theenforcement of the levy of and safeguarding the recovery  ofthe sea customs duties.	 There is no procedure prescribed tobe  followed  by the Customs Officer in the matter  of	suchadjudication and the proceedings before the Customs Officersare  not assimilated in any manner to the provisions of	 theCivil or the Criminal Procedure Code.  The Customs  Officersare  not  required  to	act  judicially	 on  legal  evidencetendered  on oath and they are not authorised to  administeroath  to any witness.  The appeals, if any, lie	 before	 theChief  Customs	Authority  which is  the  Central  Board  ofRevenue	 and the power of revision is given to	the  CentralGovernment which certainly is not a judicial authority.	  Inthe  matter of the enforcement of the payment of penalty  orincreased  rate	 of duty also the Customs Officer  can	onlyproceed	 against other goods of the party in the  possessionof  the	 Customs  Authorities.	 But  if  such	penalty	  orincreased rate of duty cannot be realised therefrom the onlything  which  he  can  do is to notify	the  matter  to	 theappropriate  Magistrate who is the only person empowered  toenforce payment as if such penalty or increased rate of dutyhad  been  a  fine inflicted by	 himself.   The	 process  ofrecovery can be issued only by the Magistrate and not by theCustoms Authority.  All these provisions go to show that farfrom  being  authorities bound by any rules of	evidence  orprocedure  established	by law and invested  with  power  toenforce	 their	own  judgments or  orders  the	Sea  CustomsAuthorities are merely constituted administrative  machineryfor the purpose of301adjudging confiscation, increased rates of duty and  Penaltyprescribed in the Act."This  Court  therefore accepted the view  that	the  earlierprosecution  should  have been before a Court of  law  or  ajudicial Tribunal, and that the Sea Customs Authorities whenthey  entertained proceedings for the confiscation  of	golddid  not  act as a judicial Tribunal.  In my view  the	saiddecision  unduly restricted the scope of  the  comprehensiveterms  in  which the fundamental right is couched.   If	 resintegral  I would be inclined to hold that  the	 prosecutionbefore	the Customs Authority for an offence created by	 theAct  is prosecution within the meaning of Article  20,	eventhough	the  Customs Authority is not a	 judicial  Tribunal.But I am bound by the decision of this Court in so far as itheld  that  the earlier prosecution should  have  been	heldbefore	a Court of law or a judicial Tribunal, and that	 theCustoms	 Authority  adjudging confiscation was	not  such  atribunal.  But the said observations must be confined to theadjudication of confiscation by the Customs Authority.The outstanding question therefore is whether a Collector ofCustoms	 in  adjudging on the question	whether	 any  personconcerned   in	the  importation  or  exportation   of	 theprohibited  goods  committed an offence, and in	 imposing  apenalty	 on  him, acts as a judicial Tribunal.	There  is  acurrent	 of  judicial opinion in support of  the  contentionthat  under  a	particular Act an authority  may  act  as  ajudicial  Tribunal in discharge of certain duties and as  anexecutive or administrative authority in discharge of  otherduties.	 The question whether a particular authority in dis-charging  specified  duties is a judicial  tribunal  or	 notfalls to be decided on the facts of each case, having regardto the well-settled characteristics of a judicialtribunal.In 'Words and Phrases', permanent edition, Vol. 23,Judicial  Tribunal " has been defined thus: " It is  a	bodywho  has  the power and whose duty it is  to  ascertain	 anddetermine  the	rights and enforce the	relative  duties  ofcontending  parties."  In I The Encyclopedia  of  Words	 andPhrases-Legal Maxims',302by Sanagan and Drynan, much to the same effect it is  statedthus:"  A 'judicial tribunal' is one that dispenses	justice,  isconcerned  with	 legal rights and liabilities,	which  meansrights	and  liabilities  conferred or imposed	by  I  law'.These legal rights and liabilities are treated by a judicialtribunal as preexisting; such a tribunal professes merely toascertain and give effect to them; it investigates the factsby hearing the 'evidence' (as tested by long-settled rules),and  it	 investigates the law by consulting  precedents.   Ajudicial  tribunal  looks  for some law	 to  guide  it.	  Anadministrative tribunal, within its province, is a law	untoitself."In  Cooper v. Wilson (1) the characteristics of	 a  judicialdecision are given as follows, at page 340:"  A true judicial decision presupposes an existing  disputebetween	 two  or  more	parties,  and  then  involves	fourrequisites:-  (1) The presentation (not necessarily  orally)of  their  case by the parties to the dispute;	(2)  If	 thedispute	  between   them  is  a	 question   of	 fact,	 theascertainment  of the fact by means of evidence	 adduced  bythe parties to the dispute and often with the assistance  ofargument  by or on behalf of the parties on the	 evidence  ;(3) If the dispute be. tween them is a question of law,	 thesubmission  of	legal  argument by the parties;	 and  (4)  Adecision  which	 disposes of the whole matter by  a  findingupon the facts in dispute and application of the law of	 theland  to  the  facts so found, including  where	 required  aruling upon any disputed question of law."This  passage  has been approved by this  Court	 in  MaqboolHussain's Case (2).In  Venkataraman  v.  The  Union of  India  (3)	 this  Courtconsidered the question whether Art. 20 protects an  Officeragainst	 whom  an  enquiry was held  under  Public  ServantsEnquiries  Act,	 1850  (Act  XXXVII  of	 1850)	from   beingprosecuted again on the same facts before a Criminal (Court.This Court held on a consideration of the provisions of thatAct that the appellant was neither prosecuted nor punished(1) (1937) 2 K.B. 309, 340, 341-  (2) [1953] S-C.R. 730.(3)  [1954] S.C.R. 1150.303for  the  same offence before a judicial tribunal.   But  incoming	to  that  conclusion  the  following  criteria	wereapplied	 to ascertain the character of the proceedings:	 (1)duty to investigate an offence and impose a punishment; (ii)prosecution  must be in reference to the law  which  createsthe  offence and punishment must also be in accordance	withwhat  the law proscribes; (iii) there must be the  trappingsof a judicial tribunal and (iv) the decision must have	bothfinality  and  authoritativeness, which	 are  the  essentialtests  of  a judicial pronouncement.  Having regard  to	 theaforesaid  tests,  I  shall  now  proceed  to  consider	 theapplicability of Article 20 to the present prosecution.A  fundamental	right  is transcendental in  nature  and  itcontrols  both	the  legislative  and  the  executive  acts.Article	 13 explicitly prohibits the State from	 making	 anylaw  which takes away or abridges any fundamental right	 anddeclares the law to the extent of the contravention as void.The law therefore must be carefully scrutinized to ascertainwhether	 a  fundamental right is infringed.  It is  not	 theform but the substance that matters.  If the legislature  ineffect	constitutes  a judicial tribunal, but calls  it	 ailauthority,  the	 tribunal  does not become any	the  less  ajudicial tribunal.  Therefore the correct approach is  firstto  ascertain with exactitude the content and scope  of	 thefundamental  right and then to scrutinize the provisions  ofthe  Act to decide whether in effect and  substance,  thoughnot  in	 form,	the said right	is  violated  or  curtailed.Otherwise  the	fundamental  right will be  lost  or  undulyrestricted in our adherence to the form to the exclusion  ofthe content.The  question  therefore is whether the	 petitioner  was  ineffect	and  in	 substance  prosecuted	and  punished  by  ajudicial  tribunal for the same offence for which he is	 nowprosecuted.  Section 167 of the Act opens with the followingwords:"  The	offences  mentioned  in	 the  first  column  of	 thefollowing  schedule  shall  be	punishable  to	the   extentmentioned in the third column of the same with reference  tosuch offences respectively."Chapter XVI of the Act deals with 'Offences and304Penalties'.  Section 167 provides for offences and penaltiesin  a tabular form.  The first column gives the	 particularsof the offences; the second column gives the sections of theAct  to	 which	the offence has reference ;  and  the  thirdcolumn	gives  the  penalties in  respect  of  the  relevantoffences.   Apart from the fact that the statute itself,  inclear terms, describes the acts detailed in the first columnof  s.	167 as offences against particular  laws,  the	actsdescribed  therein  clearly fall within	 the  definition  of'offences'  in the General Clauses Act and the Indian  PenalCode.  There cannot therefore be the slightest doubt in thiscase that the contravention of any of the provisions of	 theAct mentioned in s. 167 is an offence.The  next question is whether the penalties  prescribed	 forthe  various  offences	in the third column of	s.  167	 arepunishments   within   the  meaning  of	 Art.  20   of	 theConstitution.	A glance at the third column shows that	 thepenalties mentioned therein include direction of payment  ofmoney,	confiscation  of goods and the	receptacles  whereinthey  are  found, and imprisonment.  The  penalties  may  beimposed	 by the Customs Officers or Magistrates as the	casemay  be.   Where a person is convicted by a  Magistrate	 andsentenced  to  imprisonment or payment of fine	or  where  apenalty is imposed by a Customs Officer, in either case, thepunishment is described as penalty in the third column of s.167.	Section	 167  clearly  indicates  that	penalty	  ispunishment  inflicted by law for its violation-for doing  orfailing to do something that is the duty of the party to do.Section	 167  therefore defines a criminal act and  fixes  apenaltv or punishment for that act.  The two words  penalty'and  'punishment'  are interchangeable and they	 convey	 thesame idea.The more difficult question is whether a Customs  Authority,when  it  functions under s. 167 of the Act, is	 a  judicialtribunal.   It	is  not,  and cannot  be,  disputed  that  amagistrate,  who  convicts  and punishes a  person  for	 theinfringement of some of the provisions of s. 167 of the Act,is  a  judicial tribunal.  Is it reasonable to	assume	thatwhen  another authority adjudges on similar  offences  underthe same section, it is305functioning  in a different capacity ? Section	182  definesthe jurisdiction of the Customs Authority in respect of	 theoffences mentioned in s. 167 of the Act.  It says:" In every case, except the cases mentioned in Section	167,Nos.  26,  72 and 74 to 76, both inclusive, in	which  underthis Act, anything is liable to confiscation or to increasedrates of duty or any person is liable to a penalty,such confiscation, increased rate of duty or penalty may  beadjudged-(a)  without  limit,  by  a Deputy  Commissioner  or  DeputyCollector of Customs, or a Customs-collector;(b)  up	 to confiscation of goods not exceeding two  hundredand  fifty  rupees in value, and imposition  of	 penalty  orincreased  duty,  not exceeding one hundred  rupees,  by  anAssistant Commissioner or Assistant Collector of Customs ;(c)  up to confiscation of goods not exceeding fifty  rupeesin  value, and imposition of penalty or increased  duty	 notexceeding ten rupees, by such other subordinate officers  ofCustoms	 as  the Chief Customs authority may, from  time  totime, empower in that behalf in virtue of their office : ".Section	 187 : " All offences against this Act,	 other	thanthose  cognizable under section 182 by officers of  Customs,may  be	 tried summarily by a Magistrate." It  is  thereforeclear that some offences under s. 167 are cognizable by	 theCustoms	 Authorities  and  some	 offences  by	Magistrates.Section	 171A, inserted by the Sea Customs (Amendment)	Act,1955 (Act 21 of 1955), confers power on officers of  Customsto summon any person to give evidence and produce documents;it reads:"  171A.  (1) Any officer of Customs duly  employed  in	 theprevention  of	smuggling  shall have power  to	 summon	 anyperson	whose  attendance he considers necessary  either  togive evidence or to produce a document or any other thing inany inquiry which such officer is making in connection	withthe smuggling of any goods.39306(2)  A	summons to produce documents or other things may  befor the production of certain specified documents or  thingsor  for	 the  production of all documents  or  things  of  acertain	 description in the possession or under the  controlof the person summoned.(3)  All persons so summoned shall be bound to attend eitherin  person  or by an authorised agent, as such	officer	 maydirect;. and all persons so summoned shall be bound to statethe  truth  upon  any  subject	respecting  which  they	 areexamined  or make statements and to produce  such  documentsand other things as may be required:Provided that the exemption under section 132 of the Code ofCivil	Procedure,   1908,  shall  be  applicable   to	 anyrequisition for attendance under this section.(4)  Every such inquiry as aforesaid shall be deemed to be ajudicial  proceeding within the meaning of section  193	 andsection	 228 of the Indian Penal Code." Under this  section,the Customs Authority, who makes an inquiry, is empowered inconnection  with  that inquiry, to summon  persons  to	giveevidence  and produce documents and the	 witnesses  summonedare  under  a statutory duty to speak the truth.   The	cir-cumstance that under el. (4) of the said section, an inquiryis deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning  ofs.  193 and s. 228 of the Indian Penal Code, viz.,  for	 thepurpose	 of  punishment for giving false  evidence  and	 forcontempt  of  Court,  does not	detract	 from  the  judicialcharacteristics	 conferred upon the authority by  the  otherclauses	 of the section.  Clause (4) must have been  enactedonly  by  way  of  abundant caution  to	 guard	against	 thecontention that the authority is not a Court ; and to  bringin  the	 inquiry made by the Customs Officer  in  regard  toadministrative	matters other than those conferred upon	 himunder  s. 167, within the fold of s. 193 and s. 228  of	 theIndian Penal Code.  Sections 188, 189, 190A and 191  providea hierarchy of tribunals for deciding appeals and revisions.The  Chief  Customs  authority May, suo	 motu  or  otherwiseexercise  revisional powers in regard to the orders  of	 thesubordinate officers.  Power is also conferred on Governmentto307inter  in  matters in regard whereof no appeal	is  providedfor.   It is true that no rules have been  framed  providingthe  manner  in which the Customs collector  should  proceedwith  the inquiry in regard to offences committed under	 theAct  of which he is authorized to take cognizance.  But	 therecord	 discloses  that  a  procedure	analogous  to	thatobtaining  in criminal Courts is followed in regard  to	 thesaid  offences.	  Charges  are framed,	evidence  is  taken,advocates  are	heard,	decision is given  on  the  questionwhether an offence is committed or not; and, if the  offenceis held to have been committed, the person concerned is con-victed and a penalty is imposed.  When the statute  empowersthe  officer  to take cognizance of an offence,	 to  adjudgeupon  the question whether the offence is committed  or	 notand  to impose a penalty for the offence, it is	 implied  inthe  statute that the judicial procedure is to be  followed.The entire scheme of the Act as disclosed in the Sea CustomsAct  leaves  no	 doubt in my mind that so  far	as  offencesmentioned in s. 167 are concerned, the Customs Authority hasto  function  as a Judicial Tribunal.  I have  therefore  nohesitation  to hold that the Customs Officers in so  far  asthey  are adjudicating upon the offences mentioned under  s.167  of the Act are functioning as judicial  tribunals.	  Ifthe  other view, viz., that an authority is not	 a  judicialtribunal,  be  accepted,  it  will  lead  to  an   anomalousposition,  which  could not have been  contemplated  by	 thelegislature.  To illustrate, a Customs Collector may  imposea  penalty of Rs. 25,00,000 as in this case on	his  findingthat  a person has committed an offence under s. 167 (8)  ofthe  Act,  and the accused can be prosecuted again  for	 thesame offence before a Magistrate.  On the other hand, if theprosecution is first laid before a Magistrate for an offenceunder s. 167(81) and he is convicted and sentenced to a fineof a few rupees, he cannot be prosecuted and punished  againbefore	 a  Magistrate.	  Unless  the  provisions   of	 theConstitution  are clear, a construction which will  lead  tosuch  an anomalous position should not be accepted, for,  byaccepting such a construction, the right itself is defeated.308It  is	then  contended	 that  the  offence  for  which	 thepetitioner  was	 prosecuted by the Magistrate  is  differentfrom that in regard whereof he was sentenced by the  CustomsOfficer.   The petitioner was convicted under s.  167(8)  ofthe Act, whereas he was subsequently prosecuted and punishedunder  s.  167(81) of the Act.	Section 167(81) of  the	 Actreads as follows :"If  any  person knowingly, and with intent to	defraud	 theGovernment  of	any duty payable thereon, or  to  evade	 anyprohibition or restriction for the time being in force underor  by	virtue	of this Act with  respect  thereto  acquirespossession  of,	 or  is in any way  concerned  in  carrying,removing, depositing, harboring, keeping or concealing or inany manner dealing with any goods which have been unlawfullyremoved from a warehouse or which are chargeable with a dutywhich has not been paid or -with respect to the	 importationor  exportation of which any prohibition or  restriction  isfor the time being in force as aforesaid ; orif  any	 person	 is  in relation to any	 goods	in  any	 wayknowingly concerned in any fraudulent evasion or attempt  atevasion	 of  any  duty chargeable thereon  or  of  any	suchprohibition or restriction as aforesaid or of any  provisionof this Act applicable to those goods,such  person  shall  on conviction before  a  Magistrate  beliable to imprisonment for any term not exceeding two years,or to fine, or to both."It is contended that under s. 167(81) knowledge or intentionto defraud is an ingredient of the offence, whereas under s.167(8) they are not part of the offence, that offences underss. 167(8) and 167(81) are different, and that therefore theprosecution  and punishment for an offence under the  formersub-section   would  not  be  a	 bar  for  prosecution	 andpunishment   under  the	 latter	 sub-section.	It  is	 notnecessary to consider the decisions cited in support of	 thecontention  that  for the application of  the  principle  ofdouble'	  jeopardy  the	 offence  for  which  a	 person	  isprosecuted and punished in a second proceeding should be thesame in respect of which he has been prosecuted and309punished  at  an earlier stage.	 That fact  is	self-evidentfrom Art. 20(2) of the Constitution itself.  If so, the onlyquestion is whether the petitioner was prosecuted before theMagistrate  for the same offence in regard to which  he	 wasprosecuted before the Collector of customs.  It is true thatthe phraseology in s. 167(8) is more comprehensive than thatin  sub-s. (81) in that the offences under the	former	sub-section	 take in acts committed without knowledge or  intentto  defraud.   But it does not exclude from its	 scope	actscommitted with knowledge or with intent to defraud.  For,  aperson	who imports or exports prohibited goods with  intentto  defraud  is	 also  concerned  in  the  offence  of	suchimportation  or	 exportation.  The question of	identity  ofoffence	  is  one  to  be  determined  on  the	 facts	 andcircumstances  of  a particular case.  One of the  tests  iswhether an offence for which a person was earlier prosecutedtakes  in  all the ingredients of the offence,	the  subjectmatter	of the second prosecution.  The fact that  he  mighthave been prosecuted for a lesser offence is not a  materialcircumstance.	The question therefore is not whether  unders. 167(8) a person can be found guilty of an offence even ifthere is no fraudulent intent or knowledge, but the questionis whether the petitioner was prosecuted and punished on thesame facts in regard to which he was subsequently prosecutedand  punished before the Magistrate.  The  record  disclosesthat  the  petitioner  was  prosecuted	before	the  CustomsAuthority as well as the Magistrate on the same facts, viz.,that he, along with others, attempted to take out of  India,Indian currency (as detailed in paragraphs 14 and 17 of	 thecomplaint of the Assistant Collector of Customs and  CentralExcise,	 Amritsar), in contravention of the law	 prohibitingsuch  export. It is not the case that the knowledge  on	 thepart  of the petitioner of his illegal act is excluded	fromthe  first prosecution and included in the  subsequent	one.In  the	 circumstances, I cannot hold that the	offence	 forwhich he was prosecuted by the Magistrate is different	fromthat  in regard to which he was prosecuted and	punished  bythe  Customs Authority.	 In this view, the  prosecution	 andpunishment by the Magistrate310directly  infringes the fundamental right under Art. 20	 (2)of the Constitution.No attempt has been made by the learned Solicitor General tocontend that the offence under ss. 23 and 23B of the ForeignExchange  Regulations  Act  for	 which	the  petitioner	  isconvicted is an offence different from that for which he wasprosecuted earlier under s. 167(8) of the Act.It is conceded that the decision in the writ petition coversthe  decision in the connected appeal also.  In the  result,the writ petition and the appeal are allowed.			   ORDERIn view of the opinion of the majority, the Petition and theAppeal are dismissed.