PETITIONER:STATE OF JAMMU & KASHMIR AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THAKUR GANGA SINGH AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:26/11/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  356		  1960 SCR  (2) 346 CITATOR INFO : R	    1965 SC 682	 (11)ACT:Supreme	 Court, Appellate jurisdiction of-Special  leave  toappeal-When can be granted-Substantial question of law as tothe   interpretation   of   the	  Constitution-Meaning	 of-Constitution of India, Art. 132(2).HEADNOTE:The respondents filed a petition in the High Court of  JammuJUDGMENT:Kashmir Motor Vehicles Rules.  The High Court held that	 thesaid  rule  was	 ultra vires as offending  Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution.	The appellants filed an application  in	 theHigh  Court  for  a certificate under  Art.  132(1)  of	 theConstitution  which  was  rejected on  the  ground  that  nosubstantial question of law as to the interpretation of	 theConstitution  was  involved  in the  case.   Thereafter	 theappellant applied to this Court for special leave under Art.132(2)	of the Constitution, which was granted with  libertyto the respondents to raise the question of  maintainabilityof the appeal.	There was no controversy between the partiesin   regard  to	 the  interpretation  of  Art.	14  of	 theConstitution,  and the dispute centered round  the  questionwhether	 the  impugned	rule stood the	test  of  reasonableclassification.	   The	respondents  raised  a	 preliminaryobjection  that	 special  leave under  Art.  132(2)  of	 theConstitution  could be granted by this court only if it	 wassatisfied  that the case involved a substantial question  oflaw  as to the interpretation of the Constitution, and	thatsince, in the present case, the interpretation of Art. 14 ofthe Constitution was not in dispute by reason of a series ofdecisions of this Court and no question of law, much less  asubstantial question of law, could arise for  consideration,no special leave could be granted under the said Article.It was contended on behalf of the appellants that whenever aquestion  of  classification  was  raised  that	 by   itselfinvolved  the interpretation of Art. 14 of the	Constitutionso far as the impugned classification was concerned.Held,  that  the principle underlying Art.   132(2)  of	 theConstitution is that the final authority of interpreting theConstitution  must rest with the Supreme Court.	  With	thatobject that Article is freed from other limitations  imposedunder  Arts.  133  and 134 and the right of  appeal  of	 thewidest	amplitude is allowed irrespective of the  nature  ofthe  proceedings  in  a case involving	only  a	 substantialquestion   of	law  as	 to  the   interpretation   of	 theConstitution.The interpretation of a provision means the method by  whichthe  true  sense or the meaning of the word  is	 understood.Where		     347the  parties  agree  as	 to the	 true  interpretation  of  aprovision  or do not raise any question in respect  thereof,the  case  does not involve any question of law	 as  to	 theinterpretation of the Constitution.  A substantial  questionof  law	 cannot arise where that law has  been	finally	 andauthoritatively decided by this Court.In  the instant case, the question raised does	not  involveany  question  of  law	as  to	the  interpretation  of	 theConstitution.T.M.  Krishnaswami  Pillai v. Governor	General	 in  Council(1947)	52 C.W.N. (F.R.) 1, Bhudan Choudury v. The State  ofBihar,	[1955]	1 S.C.R. 1045, Chiranjit  Lal  Chowdhuri  v.Union  of  India, [1950] S.C.R. 869, Ram Krishna  Dalmia  v.justice	 Tendolkar,  [1959] S.C.R. 279 and  Mohammad  HaneefQuayeshi v. State of Bihar, [1959] S.C.R.629, relied on.&CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 217 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJune 20, 1958, of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court, in	WritPetition No. 108 of 1958.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,N.   S.	 Bindra,  R.  H.  Dhebar and  T.  M.  Sen,  for	 theappellants.R.   K. Garg and M. K. Ramamurthy, S. N. Andley, J.    B.Dadachanji,  Rameshwar	Nath  and  P.  L.  Vohra,  for	 therespondents.1959.  November 26.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySUBBA  RAO  J.-This  appeal  by	 special  leave	 raises	 thequestion of the scope of Art. 132(2) of the Constitution.The  first  respondent	is one of the  shareholders  of	 thesecond	 respondent,  M/s.   Jammu  Kashmir  Mechanics	 AndTransport   Workers  Co-operative  Society   Limited   Jammu(hereinafter   called	the  Society).	 The   Society	 wasregistered   under  the	 Jammu	and   Kashmir	Co-operativeSocieties Act No. 6 of 1993 (Vikrimi).	They put in a numberof applications before the third appellant for the grant  ofstage  carriage	 and  public carrier  permits  to  them	 forvarious	 routes	 in  the State of Jammu &  Kashmir,  but  nopermits were granted to them on the ground that under r.  4-47 of the Jammu348and  Kashmir  Motor Vehicle Rules  (hereinafter	 called	 theRules), service licence could only be issued to a person  ora company registered under the Partnership Act and that,  asthe Society was neither a person nor a partner Ship, it	 wasnot entitled to a licence under the Rules.   The respondentsfiled a petition in the High Court of Jammu & Kashmir  underS.  103 of the Constitution of Jammu &	Kashmir	 challengingthe  vires  of r. 4-47 of the Rules.  To that  petition	 theappellants  herein, viz., the Government of Jammu &  KashmirState, the Transport Minister, the Registering Authority andthe Traffic Superintendent, were made party-respondents: TheHigh  Court  held  that the said rule  was  ultra  vires  asoffending Art. 14 of the Constitution, and, on that  findingdirected a writ of mandamus to issue against the  appellantsherein from enforcing the provisions of the said rule.	 Theappellants  filed  an application in the High  Court  for  acertificate  under Art. 132(1) of the Constitution, but	 theHigh  Court  rejected it on the ground that  no	 substantialquestion of law as to the interpretation of the Constitutionwas involved in the case.  Therefter the appellants  appliedfor special leave under Art. 132(2) of the Constitution	 andthis  Court granted the same.  The order giving the  specialleave expressly granted liberty to the respondents herein toraise  the question of the maintainability of the appeal  atits final hearing.Learned	 Counsel  for the respondents raises  a	 preliminaryobjection  to  the maintainability of the  appeal.   Shortlystated	his  objection	is that under  Art.  132(2)  of	 theConstitution special leave can be given only if the  SupremeCourt  is  satisfied that the case  involves  a	 substantialquestion of law as to the interpretation of the Constitutionthat  in the present case the interpretation Art. 14 of	 theConstitution has been well-settled and put beyond dispute bya  series  of decisions of this court, that,  therefore,  noquestion   of	law  as	 to  the   interpretation   of	 theConstitution,  much  less a substantial question of  law  inregard	to that mattter, arises for consideration and  that,therefore,  no special leave can be granted under  the	saidArticle.			    349This argument is sought to be met by the learned  AdditionalSolicitor-General  in  the  following  manner:	Whenever   aquestion  of  classification  is  raised,  it  involves	 theinterpretation of Art. 14 of the Constitution with referenceto  the classification impugned.  To state  it	differently,the  argument is that the question in each case	 is  whetherthe   classification  offends  the  principle  of   equalityenshrined in Art. 14.  Therefore, whether a registered firm,a  limited company and a person have equal attributes  is  aquestion of interpretation of Art. 14 of the Constitution.Before considering the validity of the rival contentions  itwould  be  convenient to ascertain precisely  what  was	 thequestion raised in the High Court and what was the  decisiongiven thereon by it.  The argument advanced before the	HighCourt  on  behalf of the Society was that under	 r.  4-47  alicence can be issued only to a person or a firm  registeredunder	the  Partnership  Act  and  not	 to  a	 corporationregistered   under   the  Co-operative	Societies   Act	  orotherwise,   and,   therefore,	 the   said   rule,    beingdiscriminatory	 in   nature,  offends	Art.   14   of	 theConstitution.  The learned AdvocateGeneral appearing for theappellants contended that under Art. 14 of the	Constitutionrational  classification is permissible and the	 legislaturehas framed the impugned rule on such a basis, the object  ofwhich is to safeguard the interest of the public.  The	HighCourt, after considering the rival arguments, expressed	 theopinion	 that the said rule did not proceed on any  rationalbasis of classification and that, as a corporation had	beenarbitrarily  singled out for discriminatory  treatment,	 theimpugned   rule	  offended  the	 equality  clause   of	 theConstitution.  The appellants in their petition for  specialleave filed in this Court questioned the correctness of	 theconclusion  of the High Court.	They asserted that the	saidrule was based upon reasonable classification and  thereforecould  not  be struck down as repugnant to Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution.	In  other grounds they elaborated  the	samepoint in an attempt to bring out the different attributes ofthe two classes affording an intelligible differentia for45350classification.	 They clearly posed the question proposed tobe  raised  by	them in the appeal as under  GroundThe Grouns iv: " The aforesaid rule 4-47 (of the  MotorVehicles Rules) is based upon reasonable  classification andis and was perfectly intra vires   and	valid and could	 notbe  struck down as repugnant to Art. 14 of the	Constitutionof India."Ground	vi:  "	There  is  a  marked  difference  between  acorporate   body  and  partnership  registered	 under	 theProvisions  of	the  Partnership Act  and  these  points  ofdifference   provide   an   intelligible   differentia	 forclassification.	 The Hon'ble High Court has only referred toone  point of difference and has overlooked other points  ofdistinction  and  has erred in striking down  the  aforesaidrule 4-47."Ground viii : " Rule 4- 47 was framed in the light of  localconditions    prevailing.    Co-operative   Societies	 andCorporations in the matter of transport were not  consideredto  be	proper objects for the grant of licence	 or  permit.The   classification  is  rational  and	  reasonable.	 Theexclusion  of artificial persons from the ambit of the	Ruleis natural and not discriminatory."The  other grounds are only a further clarification  of	 thesaid grounds.  In part It of their statement of casethe appellants stated as follows;"  It  is now well-established that while  Art.	 14  forbidsclass	legislation,   it   does   not	 forbid	  reasonableclassification for the purpose of legislation."The  respondents, in their statement of case,  accepted	 thesaid  legal position but contested the position	 that  therewas  reasonable	 classification.  It is	 therefore  manifestthat  throughout there has never been a controversy  betweenthe  parties in regard to the interpretation of Art.  14  ofthe  Constitution,  but their dispute centered only  on	 thequestion  whether  the	impugned  rule	stood  the  test  ofreasonable classification.In  the	 premises,  can	 special leave	be  granted  to	 theappellants  under Art 132(2) of the Constitution ?   Article132(2) reads:,,Where	  the  High  Court  has	 refused  to  give  such   acertificate, the Supreme Court may, if it is			    351satisfied  that the case involves a substantial question  oflaw  as	 to the interpretation of  the	Constitution,  grantspecial leave to appeal from such judgment, decree or  finalorder."Under  cl. (2) of Art. 132 there is no scope for granting  aspecial	 leave unless two conditions are satisfied: (i)	 thecase   should	involve	 a  question  of  law  as   to	 theinterpretation	of  the	 Constitution;	and  (ii)  the	saidquestion  should  be  a substantial question  of  law.	 Theprinciple underlying the Article is that the final authorityof interpreting the Constitution must rest with the  SupremeCourt.	 With  that object the Article is freed	 from  otherlimitations imposed under Arts. 133 and 134 and the right ofappeal	of the widest amplitude is allowed  irrespective  ofthe  nature  of the proceedings in a case involving  only  asubstantial question of law as to the interpretation of	 theConstitution.What   does   interpretation   of   a	provision   mean   ?Interpretation is the method by which the true sense or	 themeaning	 of  the  word	is  understood.	  The  question	  ofinterpretation	can  arise  only if  two  or  more  possibleconstructions  are  sought to be placed on  a  provision-oneparty suggesting one construction and the other a  differentone.  But where the parties agree on the true interpretationof  a  provision  or do not raise any  question	 in  respectthereof,  it is not possible to hold that the case  involvesany  question  of  law	as  to	the  interpretation  of	 theConstitution.  On an interpretation of Art. 14, a series  ofdecisions   of	 this	Court  evolved	 the   doctrine	  ofclassification.	 As we have pointed out, at no stage of	 theproceedings either the correctness of the interpretation  ofArt.  14  or  the  principles  governing  the  doctrine	  ofclassification	have  been  questioned	by  either  of	 theparties.  Indeed accepting the said doctrine, the appellantscontended  that there was a valid classification  under	 therule  while  the  respondents argued  contra.	The  learnedAdditional Solicitor General contended, for the first  time,before us that the appeal raised a new facet of the doctrineof  equality,  namely, whether an artificial  person  and  anatural person have equal attributes352within	the meaning of the equality clause, and,  therefore,the   case   involves  a  question  of	 interpretation	  of"the  Constitution.   This  argument,  if  we  may  say	 so,involves  the  same  contention in  a  different  garb.	  Ifanalysed, the argument only comes to this: as an  artificialperson	and a natural person have different attributes,	 theclassification	made between them is  valid.  This  argumentdoes  not  suggest a new interpretation of Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution, but only attempts to bring the rule within thedoctrine  of classification.  We, therefore, hold  that	 thequestion  raised in this case does not involve any  questionof law as to the interpretation of the Constitution.Assuming  that the case raises a question of law as  to	 theinterpretation of the Constitution, can it be said that	 thequestion raised is a substantial question of law within	 themeaning of cl. (2) of Art 14.  This aspect was considered bythe  Federal Court in T. M. Krishnaswamy,Pillai v.  GovernorGeneral	 In  Council  (1).  That decision  turned  upon	 theprovisions  of s. 205 of the Government of India Act,  1935.The materialS.   205:  "  (1) An appeal shall lie to the  Federal  Courtfrom any judgment, decree or final order of a High Court  ifthe   High  Court  certifies  that  the	 case	involves   asubstantial question of law as to the interpretation of thisAct or any Order in Council made thereunder...."The Madras High Court gave a certificate to the effect	thatthe  case involved a substantial question of law as  to	 theinterpretation of s. 240(3) of the Government of India	Act,1935.  Under s. 240(3) of the said Act, no person who was  amember	of civil service of the Crown in India or  held	 anycivil  post under the Crown in India could be  dismissed  orreduced	 in  rank  until  he had  been	given  a  reasonableopportunity of showing cause against the action proposed  tobe  taken  in regard to him.  The High Court, on  the  factsfound,	held that the appellant therein had been  offered  Areasonable opportunity of showing cause within the meaning(1)  (1947) 52 C.W.N. (F.R.) 1.part of that section says :353of the said section, but gave a certificate under s.  205(1)of  the	 Government of India Act, 1935.In dealing  with	 thepropriety of issuing the certificate in the circumstances ofthat case, Zafrulla Khan, J., speaking on behalf the  Court,concisely and pointedly stated at p. 2 :"  It was urged before us that the case involved a  questionrelating to the interpretation of sub-section (3) of section240  of the Act.  To the extent to which any guidance  mighthave  been  needed  for the purposes of	 this  case  on	 theinterpretation	 of  that  sub-section	that  guidance	 wasfurnished so far as this Court is concerned in its  judgmentin  Secretary of State for India v. I.M. Lal [(1945)  F.C.R.103 The rest was a simple question of fact.  In our judgmentno " substantial question of law " as to the  interpretationof  the	 Constitution Act was involved in this	case,  whichcould  have formed the basis of a certificate under  section205(1) of the Act."On  the	 question  of  interpretation  of  Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution  this Court in Budhan Choudhry v. The State  ofBihar  (1)  explained  the true meaning and  scope  of	thatArticle thus:"  It is now well-established that while article 14  forbidsclass	legislation,  it  does	not  forbid   reason.	ableclassification	for the purposes of legislation.  In  order,however, to pass the the test of permissible  classificationtwo  conditions	 must  be fulfilled, namely,  (i)  that	 theclassification	 must	be  founded   on   an	intelligibledifferentia  which distinguishes persons or things that	 aregrouped together from others left out of the group and	(ii)that  that differentia must have a rational relation to	 theobject sought to be achieved by the statue in question.	 Theclassification	may be founded on different  bases:  namely,geographical, or according to objects or occupations or	 thelike.  What is necessary is that there must be nexus betweenthe basis of classification and the object of the Act  underconsideration."(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1045,1049.354This  in  only	a  restatement of  the	law  that  has	beenenunciated   by	 this  Court  in  Chiranjit  Lal   Chowdhuriv. The Union of India (1) and in other subsequent decisions.The said principles were reaffirmed in the  recent decisionsof this Court in Rama Krishna Dalmia v. Justice Tendolkar (2)  and in Mohammed    Haneef Qureshi v. State of Bihar	(3).In  view of the said decision there is no further scope	 forputting a new interpretation on the provisions of Art. 14 ofthe  Constitution vis-a-vis the doctrine of  classification.The  interpretation of Art. 14 in the context  of  classifi-cation has been finally settled by the highest Court of thisland   and   under  Art.  141  of  the	 Constitution	thatinterpretation	is  binding  on all the	 Courts	 within	 theterritory  of India.  What remained to be done by  the	HighCourt  was only to apply that interpretation to,  the  factsbefore it.  A substantial question of law, therefore, cannotarise  where that law has been finally	and  authoritativelydecided by this Court.In  the	 result	 we accept  the	 preliminary  objection	 anddismiss the appeal with costs.Appeal dismissed.(1) [1950] S.C.R. 869.	      (2) [1959] S.C.R. 279.(3)  [1959] S.C.R. 629.			    355