PETITIONER:MESSRS PRATAPMAL LUXMICHAND	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, MADHYAPRADESH.DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/02/1956BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJANAIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMACITATION: 1956 AIR  364		  1956 SCR   91ACT:Registration of firm-Deed of partnership and application forregistration not signed by all partners-Refusal to  registerby   the   Income-tax  Officer-Powers  of   the	  Appellate.Assistant  Commissioner-Indian Income-tax Act (XI of  1922),s. 26-A-Indian Income-tax Rules, 1922, rule 2.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	(a firm) consisted of seven partners  and  adeed of partnership was executed by all the partners  exceptone  who  happened to be in Jail being a  security  prisonerunder  the  Defence  of India  Rules.	An  application	 forregistration of the firm under s. 26-A of the Indian Income-tax Act was made before the Incometax Officer, who, however,rejected  it on the ground that the deed of partnership	 andthe application for registration were not signed by all	 thepartners.   On appeal, the Appellate Assistant	Commissionercancelled  the order of the Income-tax Officer and  directedhim  to register the firm after obtaining the  signature  ofthe  partner  who  had	not  signed  before,  both  on	 theapplication for registration and the deed of partnership.Held,  that under Rule 2(c) of the Indian Income-tax  Rules,1922, framed under s. 26-A(2) of the Indian Income-tax	Act,the  Appellate Assistant Commissioner had only the power  todirect	registration  of  the firm if  an  application	dulysigned by all the partners had been presented to him  beforethe assessment was confirmed, reduced, enhanced or  annulledand that he was not legally92competent  to direct the Income-tax Officer to register	 thefirm  after obtaining the signature of the partner  who	 hadnot signed before.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 199 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  17th  day	of April 1953 of the Nagpur  High  Court  inMiscellaneous Civil Case No. 53 of 1950.Nur-ud-din Ahmad and Naunit Lal, for the appellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, G.  N.  Joshiand B. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1956.	February S. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI  J.-This is an appeal with special leave  from	 theJudgment and Order of the High Court of Judicature at Nagpuron  a reference made by the Income-tax	Appellate  Tribunal,Bombay Branch 'A' under section 66(1) of the Indian  Income-tax Act XI of 1922 whereby the High Court answered the	ref-erred question against the appellant.  The  appellant, a firm of Messrs Pratapmal  Laxmichand  ofBetul consisted of 7 partners, viz., Misrilal Goti,  MeghrajGoti,  Panraj  Goti,  Phulchand,  Basantibai,  Ratanbai	 andGokulchand Goti.  A deed of partnership was executed on	 the12th  February	1944 by all the partners  except  GokulchandGoti  who happened to be in the Seoni Jail being a  securityprisoner under the Defence of India Rules.  He was unable tosign  the  same	 in  spite of  all  efforts  to	 obtain	 hissignature in prison.  An application for registration of thefirm  under section 26-A of the Act for the assessment	year1943-44 was made on the 24th March 1944 personally signed bythe other 6 partners of the firm and was accompanied by	 thedeed  of partnership which also had been signed by  those  6partners.  The Special Income-tax Officer, Nagpur,  rejectedthe  application on the ground that the deed itself was	 notvalid inasmuch as it had not been signed93by  all the partners mentioned in the body and there was  nosignature of Gokulchand on the deed and the application.  Anappeal	was  taken to the Appellate  Assistant	Commissioneragainst	 this decision of the Special Income-tax Officer  onthe  24th April 1944.  Gokulchand appended his signature  tothe  deed  of partnership in Seoni Jail on the	9th  January1945.	The appeal was heard before the Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  on the 20th March 1947 and he passed an  orderon  the	 17th  February 1948 cancelling	 the  order  of	 theSpecial Income-tax Officer and directing him to register thefirm after obtaining the signature of Gokulchand both on theapplication  for registration and the deed  of	partnership.At the instance of the Commissioner of Income-tax, C. P. andBerar, an appeal was filed against this order of the  Appel-late Assistant Commissioner by the Income-tax Officer,	Spl.I.T.  cum  E.P.T.  Circle,  Nagpur,  before  the  Income-taxAppellate Tribunal.  The Tribunal allowed the appeal by	 itsorder  dated 11/16 October 1948 observing that	the  SpecialIncome-tax Officer was justified in refusing to register thefirm  as the application for registration was not signed  byGokulchand,  that Rule 2(c) of the Indian Income-tax  Rules,922, on which the Appellate Assistant Commissioner teems  tohave  relied  did  not apply  and  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  was not justified in directing the  Income-taxOfficer "to register the firm after obtaining the  signatureof Seth Gokulchand both in the application for	registrationand  the deed of partnership".	The appellant applied for  areference  to the High Court under section 66(1) of the	 Actand the Tribunal referred the following question arising outof its order for the opinion of the High Court: "Whether  onthe facts and in the circumstances of the case the AppellateAssistant  Commissioner was legally competent to direct	 theIncome-tax Officer to register the firm after obtaining	 thesignature  of  Seth Gokulchand both in the  application	 forregistration  and  in the deed of  partnership".   When	 thestatement  of the case was being drawn up by  the  Tribunal,counsel for the appellant suggested that the words94appearing in para 6 of the statement, viz., "No	 applicationwas  submitted	to  the	 Appellate  Assistant	Commissionerseeking his permission under Rule 2(c) of the Indian Income-tax   Rules"  be  deleted.   He	 also  suggested  that	 theconcluding words in the question referred to the High Court,viz., "after obtaining the signature of Seth Gokulchand bothin  the	 application  for registration and in  the  deed  ofpartnership"   be  deleted.   With  regard  to	the   lattersuggestion  the Tribunal observed that they were  unable  todelete	the same inasmuch as the words sought to be  deletedwere  the  concluding  words  appearing	 in  the   AppellateAssistant,  Commissioner's  order dated the  17th  February,1948  giving directions to the Income-tax Officer  and	werewords  which were material to the question before  the	HighCourt.	With regard to the first suggestion counsel for	 theappellant had stated that the appellant had submitted  threeapplications  to  the Appellate Assistant  Commissioner	 alldated  20th March, 1947 and that it would be wrong to  statethat no application was submitted to the Appellate AssistantCommissioner.	The  allegation made by	 the  appellant	 wasproperly  investigated	subsequently and  the  Tribunal	 wassatisfied  that the appellant did not appear to have put  inthe  application  dated 20th March, 1947 as  alleged.	Thisbeing the position the Tribunal stated that no change in thestatement  of  case  was  called for  as  suggested  by	 theappellant.  It was on this statement of case by the Tribunal that	 thereferred  question came to be determined by the High  Court.Before the High Court the appellant had applied on the	27thNovember, 1950 that the three certified copies of the  threeapplications dated 20th March, 1947 made by the appellant tothe  Appellate Assistant Commissioner with  their  originalsshould	be  sent  for by the High Court	 from  the  IncomeaxTribunal  and  an order had been made accordingly.  he	HighCourt  was  of	the  opinion  that  the	 Appelate  AssistantCommissioner  should  have ordered egistration of  the	firmprovided there was an application before him duly signed  byall the partners.  As,95however,  there was no such application, he could  not	havedirected  the Income-tax Officer to register the firm  afterobtaining the signature of Gokulchand on the application andalso  in the partnership deed . The High  Court	 accordinglyanswered the referred question in the negative. An  application  under	 section 66-A(2) of the	 Act  for  acertificate  for leave to appeal to this Court against	thatorder  was  dismissed by the High Court	 but  the  appellantobtained special leave to appeal against the same from	thisCourt on the 6th December, 1954.  The  main  question that arises for our  determination  inthis  appeal  is:-What	are  the  powers  of  the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner on the hearing of an appeal  againstthe  refusal  by the Income-tax Officer to register  a	firmunder  section	26-A  of the Act and Rule 2  of	 the  IndianIncometax Rules, 1922?  Section 26-A of the Act provides:--  " (1) Application maybe made to the Income-tax Officer  onbehalf	of  any	 firm, constituted under  an  instrument  ofpartnership   specifying  the  individual  shares   of	 thepartners, for registration for the purposes of this Act	 andof any other enactment for the time being in force  relatingto income-tax or supertax. (2) The  application  shall  be  made	by  such  person  orpersons,   and	at  such  times	 and  shall   contain	suchparticulars  and shall be in such form, and be	verified  insuch  manner,  as may be prescribed; and it shall  be  dealtwith  by  the Income-tax Officer in such manner	 as  may  beprescribed".Rule  2 of the Indian Income-tax Rules, 1922, which  was  inforce  at the relevant period, in so far as is material	 forthe  purpose of this appeal, provided:  "Any	firm constituted under an Instrument of	 Partnershipspecifying the individual shares of the partners may,  underthe provisions of section 26-A of the Indian Income-tax Act,1922  register with the Income-tax Officer  the	 particularscontained in the said Instrument on application made in thisbehalf. Such application shall be signed by all the partners96(not being minis) personally and shall be made-(a)  before he income of the firm is assessed forany year  under section 23 of the Act, or(b).. ........	or (c) with   the	 permission  of	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner hearing an appeal under section 30 of the	Act,before	the  assessment is confirmed, reduced,	enhanced  orannulled, or  (d)  (e)The  decision  of the Income-tax Officer in  regard  to	 theinvalidity of the deed of partnership inasmuch as it did notbear  the signature of Gokulchand was not challenged by	 theappellant  at  any  stage  of the  proceedings	nor  in	 thestatement  of  case before us.	Counsel for  the  appellant,however,  relying on a passage in the "Law and	Practice  ofIncome-tax  by Kanga and Palkhivala", 3rd Ed., at page	754,urged that it was not necessary that the partnership  agree-ment  should  be  signed  by all the  partners	and  if	 theagreement  had	not been signed by one of the  partners	 butthat  partner  had  assented to the  agreement	and  put  itforward along with the other partners for registration,	 theagreement  would  be admissible for  registration.   In	 thefirst instance, it was not open to the appellant to urge anypoint which was not taken in the statement of case and	evenif  it	was open to him to urge that contention	 we  do	 notthink it necessary to express any opinion on the correctnessor  otherwise of the statement above referred to in view  ofthe  construction  which  we put on Rule  2  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Rules, 1922. The Rules were framed under section 26-A(2) of the Act	 andbad  statutory	force.	Under Rule 2,  the  application	 forregistration  of the firm was to be made to, the  Income-taxOfficer	 and the particulars contained in the Instrument  ofPartnership specifying the individual shares of the partnerswere  to  be registered with him on an application  made  inthat  behalf signed by all the partners (not  being  minors)personally.   No  such	application  was  submitted  to	 theSpecial Income-tax Officer in this case before he97made his order on the 18th March 1944, and on the  materialsas  they  stood	 on record then, the order  of	the  SpecialIncome-tax   Officer  was  perfectly  justified.   No	suchapplication signed by all the partners of the firm includingGokulchand was also available before the Appellate AssistantCommissioner  when  he heard the appeal on  the	 20th  March1947.  The appellant contended that he had in fact filed  inthe  office of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner  on	 thesaid  20th  March 1947 three applications one of  which	 wassuch  an application signed by all the	partners  personallyincluding  Gokulchand  and it was strenuously urged  on	 hisbehalf that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner passed	 hisorder  dated  the  17th	 February  1948	 ignoring  the	saidapplication  which  had been filed in his  office.   It	 wasurged  that,  if the Appellate	Assistant  Commissioner	 hadbefore	him the said application dated the 20th	 March	1947signed by all the partners personally including	 Gokulchand,it was his duty to direct a registration of the firm himselfwithout	 anything more inasmuch as the deed  of	 partnershiphad  been signed by Gokulchand on the 9th January  1945	 andthe application for registration of the firm dated the	20thMarch  1947 bore his signature.	 The direction given by	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner to the Income-tax  Officerto register the firm was, it was contended, therefore properand  we were asked to treat the words "after  obtaining	 thesignature  of Seth Gokulchand in the application for  regis-tration and in the deed of partnership" as superfluous.  We  are  not	impressed with this  argument.	 As  appearsabundantly  clear  from the terms of the order made  by	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner himself and also from	 thestatement of case prepared by the Tribunal, the	 applicationsigned	by all the partners personally including  Gokulchandwas  not  before the Appellate Assistant  Commissioner.	  Anapplication  had been made by the appellant before the	Tri-bunal to amend the statement of case by deleting from para 6thereof	 the  words  "no application was  submitted  to	 theAppellate Assistant Commissioner1398seeking his permission under Rule 2(c) of the Indian Income-tax Rules" but the same had been rejected by the Tribunal asa   result   of	 proper	 investigation	 conducted   by	  itsubsequently, the Tribunal stating that they were  satisfiedthat  the  assessee  did  not  appear  to  have	 put  in  anapplication  dated  the	 20th March 1947  as  alleged.	 Thereference  was beard by the High Court on this statement  ofcase prepared by the Tribunal and no steps were taken by theappellant before the High Court for having the statement  ofcase  amended  by  the	Tribunal or  for  having  a  furtherstatement  of  case  submitted	by  the	 Tribunal  recordingtherein	 the  facts  alleged by	 the  appellant.   We  must,therefore,  decide  this appeal on the facts stated  in	 thestatement of case by the Tribunal and on the basis that	 theapplication  for  registration	dated the  20th	 March	1947signed	by all the partners personally including  Gokulchandwas not before the, Appellate Assistant Commissioner.  If  that  was	 the  position, the  only  power  which	 theAppellate Assistant Commissioner bad under Rule 2(c) was  toaccord	permission to the appellant to make the	 applicationin  proper form to the Incometax Officer signed by  all	 thepartners   personally	including  Gokulchand	before	 theassessment  was	 confirmed, reduced, enhanced  or  annulled.The Appellate Assistant Commissioner had, under the Rule, nopower to direct the Income-tax Officer to register the	firmafter  obtaining  the signature of Gokulcband  both  in	 theapplication for registration and in the deed of	 partnershipas  he did.  As a matter of fact the appellant did  not	 askfor   such   permission	  from	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner  nor  was any revision taken by  the  appellantbefore	the  Commissioner  under section  33-A	of  the	 Actagainst	  the	said  order  of	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner.  The appellant contented himself with  arguingthat the order made by the Appellate Assistant	Commissionerwas  justified and the sole controversy which arose  betweenthe  parties  and  was the subject matter  of  the  referredquestion  was whether the Appellate  Assistant	Commissionerwas legally competent to direct the Income-99tax  Officer  to  register  the	 firm  after  obtaining	 thesignature   of	Gokulchand  both  in  the  application	 forregistration and in the deed of partnership.  The  appellantattempted  no doubt to have the words "after  obtaining	 thesignature  of  Seth Gokulchand both in the  application	 forregistration  and in the deed of partnership"  deleted	fromthe referred question.	That attempt, however, failed and nosteps  were taken by the appellant before the High Court  atthe  hearing  of the reference to either have  the  referredquestion  amended  or  reframed	 in  order  to	bring	intoprominence  his	 contention in regard to the powers  of	 theAppellate Assistant Commissioner.  On the question as framed, the only answer which the	HighCourt	could	give  was  that	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner was not legally competent to direct the Income-tax  Officer  to  register  the	 firm  after  obtaining	 thesignature   of	Gokulchand  both  in  the  application	 forregistration  and  in the deed of  partnership.	  Rule	2(c)above-quoted   did  not	 empower  the  Appellate   AssistantCommissioner  to do anything of the sort and we are  of	 theopinion	 that  the  answer given by the High  Court  in	 thenegative was, therefore, correct.  Counsel for the appellant tried to support his argument byreferring to the provisions of the earlier partnership deedsbetween the several partners of this firm in the years	1929and  1941 which specifically provided that in the  event  ofretirement, or death of, or relinquishment, of his share  bya partner, the partnership will not be dissolved but will becontinued, in case of death of any of the partners, by	suchof the partners as remained and the legal representatives ornominees  of  the  deceased  partner  and  in  the  case  ofretirement of any of the partners by such of the partners asremained.  We fail to understand what bearing these  clauseshave on the determination of the referred question.  In	 theresult,	 the  appeal of the appellant fails and	 must  standdismissed with costs.100