PETITIONER:THE COLLECTOR OF MALABAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:ERIMAL EBRAHIM HAJEEDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/04/1957BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  688		  1957 SCR  970ACT:Income	Tax--Arrears  of--Wilfully withholding	and  evadingpayment--Arrest	 of  assessee  to  recover  arrears--Whetherillegal--Indian	 Income Tax Act, s. 46	(2)--Madras  RevenueRecovery  Act  (Mad.  II of 1864),  s.	48-_Constitution  ofIndia, Arts. 14, 19, 21 and 22.HEADNOTE:The  Income  Tax Officer forwarded a  certificate  under  s.46(2)  of  the Indian Income Tax Act to	 the  Collector	 forrecovering the arrears of Income Tax from the assesses as ifthey were arrears of land revenue.  The Collector  proceededunder s. 48, Madras Revenue971Recovery Act, and had the assessee arrested and confined  injail.  Upon a petition for a writ of habeas corpus the	HighCourt ordered the release of the assessee holding that s. 48of  the	 Madras	 Revenue Recovery Act and s.  46(2)  Of	 theIndian	Income	Tax  Act were ultra  vires.   The  Collectorappealed.  Held,	 that S. 48 Of the Madras Revenue Recovery Act,	 andS.  46(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act were not ultra  viresand  neither of them violated Arts. 14,19, 21 and 22 of	 theConstitution.  Where	 the personal liberty of a person is lawfully  takenaway  under  Art. 21, i.e., in accordance with	a  procedureestablished  by a valid law, no question of the exercise  offundamental rights under Art. 19(1)(a) to (e) and (g) can beraised.A.K.  Gopalan  v.  The State of Madras,	 (1950)	 S.C.R.	 88,followed.  An  arrest  for a civil debt in the process of or  in	 themode  prescribed  by  law for recovery of  arrears  of	landrevenue does not come within the protection of Art. 22.State of Punjab v. Ajaib Singh (1953) S.C.R. 254, followed. Section 46(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act does not  offendArt. 14 and there is no violation of Art. 21 where a  personis  arrested  under s. 48, Madras Revenue Recovery  Act,  inpursuance of a warrant of arrest issued for the recovery  ofthe demand certified under S. 46(2) of the Indian Income TaxAct.Purshottam  Govindji Halai v. Shri B. M.  Desai,  AdditionalCollector of Bombay, (1955) 2 S.C.R. 887, followed.  Section 46(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act gives authorityto the Collector to recover arrears of tax as if it were  anarrear	of land revenue.  Section 48 of the  Madras  RevenueRecovery Act read with s. 5 make it clear that the arrest ofthe  defaulter is one of the modes by which the	 arrears  ofland revenue can be recovered, to be resorted to if the saidarrears cannot be liquidated by the sale of the	 defaulter'sproperty.   Such an arrest is not for any offence  committedor a punishment for defaulting in any payment. Section  48  of the Madras Revenue Recovery  Act  does	 notrequire	 the Collector to give the defaulter an	 opportunityto  be heard before arresting him.  But the  Collector	musthave  reason  to  believe that	the  defaulter	is  wilfullywithholding payment or has been guilty of fraudulent conductin  order to evade payment.  Such belief must be based	uponsome  material, which a Court may look into  in	 appropriatecases,	to  find  out if the conditions	 laid  down  in	 thesection	 have  been fulfilled.	The Collector has  also	 thepower to release the defaulter if the amount due is paid.JUDGMENT:  CRIMINAL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 145-A of 1954.972Appeal	under  Article 132(1) of the Constitution  of  Indiafrom  the  Judgment and Order dated July 23,  1954,  of	 theMadras High Court in Criminal Miscellaneous Petition No. 922of 1954.  Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellants.  B. Pocker and B. K. B. Naidu, for the respondent.   1957.  April 11.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyIMAM J.-The appellant obtained a certificate from the MadrasHigh   Court  to  the  effect  that  the  case	involved   asubstantial question of law as to the interpretation of	 theConstitution under Art. 132(1), in consequence of which	 thepresent appeal is before us.  The  respondent  had filed a petition in  the	 High  Courtunder s. 491 of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying	thatdirections in the nature of habeas corpus may be issued	 forhis production before That Court to be dealt with  accordingto law and for his release from imprisonment.  The  respondent  had	been arrested on  June	1,  1954  inpursuance  of  a  warrant issued on March 10,  1954  by	 theCollector  of  Malabar	under s. 48 of	the  Madras  RevenueRecovery  Act (Madras Act 11 of 1864) (hereinafter  referredto  as	the  Act).   The circumstances,	 as  stated  in	 theaffidavits filed by the Collector and the Income Tax Officerof   Kozikhode	in  the	 High  Court,  which  led   to	 therespondent's  arrest,  were, that he had  been	assessed  toincome-tax for various assessment years and the total amountof tax remaining outstanding against him, in round  figures,was Rs. 70,000.	 Some amount was recovered by the  Collectorin  pursuance  of  a certificate issued by  the	 Income	 TaxOfficer	 under s. 46(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act and  bYthe  Income Tax Officer himself under s. 46(5)A of the	saidAct.  After deducting the amount so realised the arrears  ofincome-tax were about Rs. 61,668 and odd for the  assessmentYears  1943-44, 1945 -46 to 1948-49.  Meanwhile	 the  IncomeTax  Officer  had  made enquiries into the  affairs  of	 therespondent  and	 had  discovered that he  had  sold  certainproperties  of his between November 18, 1947 and  March	 25,1948 to973the tune of about Rs. 23,100.  Demand notice had been servedupon him on November 6, 1947 and the series of	transactionsof  sale started on November 18, 1947.	Out of the said	 sumof  Rs.	 23,100, the respondent paid arrears of tax  to	 theextent	of  Rs. 10,500 only.  Enquiries also  revealed	thatalthough the respondent had closed his business at Cannanorein August, 1947, he had set up a firm in 1948 at  Tellicherycarrying on an identical business in the name of V.P.  AbdulAzeez  &  Bros. consisting of his one major and	 four  minorsons.	The respondent had alleged that the capital of	thisfirm  was mainly supplied from the sale of jewels  belongingto his wife, that is, Abdul Azeez's mother.  He denied	thatthe above-mentioned firm belonged to him.  In the assessmentproceedings  before  the Income Tax Officer  concerning	 thefirm  V.P. Abdul Azeez & Bros., the source of  these  jewelswas  gone into, but it was found that the same had not	beenproved and it was held that the business of V.P. Abdul Azeez&  Bros. belonged to the respondent.  All these	 facts	werecommunicated to the Collector by the Income Tax Officer	 whomade  independent  enquiries for himself and had  reason  tobelieve that the respondent was wilfully withholding paymentof arrears of tax and had been guilty of fraudulent  conductin  evading  payment of tax.  As a certificate	had  alreadybeen issued to him by the Income Tax Officer under s.  46(2)of the Indian Income Tax Act, the Collector proceeded  unders.  48 of the Act to issue a warrant of arrest	against	 therespondent  in	consequence  of which he  was  arrested	 andlodged in Central Jail, Cannanore.  In  the  High Court, the petition under s.  491,  CriminalProcedure Code, was heard by Mack and Krishna. swamy  NayuduJJ.  which was allowed and they ordered that the  respondentbe set at liberty as his arrest was illegal.  Mack J. thought that s. 48 of the Act was ultra vires	 theConstitution  as  it offended Art. 22.	He did not  deal  atlength	with the argument that s. 48 offended Art. 21 as  hewas  of	 the opinion that if that section was  ultra  vires,then the respondent had not been arrested in accordance withprocedure, established by974Saw  and his arrest and imprisonment had been unlawful.	  Onthe  other hand, if s. 48 was intra vires the  Constitution,then  the  respondent  had been	 lawfully  deprived  if	 hispersonal  liberty.   He was further of the opinion  that  s.46(2)  of  the Indian Income Tax Act was ultra vires  as  itoffended Art. 14 of the Constitution.  Krishnaswami Nayudu J. was of the opinion that s.46(2)  ofthe Indian Income Tax Act read with s. 48 of the	 Actoffended Art. 14 of the Constitution.  He was of the opinionthat  s. 48 of the Act offended Art. 21 of the	Constitutionto  the	 extent	 that  it afforded  no	opportunity  to	 thearrested person to appear before the Collector by himself orthrough	 a  legal  practitioner of his choice  and  to	urgebefore	him  any  defence open to him and that	it  did	 notprovide for the production of the arrested person within  24hours  before  a  magistrate  as  required  by	Art.  22(2).Relying upon the decision of this Court in A. K. Gopalan  v.The  State  Of Madras (1), he was of the  opinion  that	 thecontention that the provisions of Art. 21 had been infringeddid  not require serious consideration because in so far  asthere  was a law on the statute book on which the  Collectorhad  acted that would be sufficient to support the  legalityof the action taken by the Collector.  On behalf of the appellant, it was contended that  neithers.  48 of the Act nor s. 46(2) of the Indian Income Tax	 Actwas  in	 violation  of	Arts.  14, 19,	21  and	 22  of	 theConstitution.	Section 46(2) of the Indian Income  Tax	 Actwas  a valid piece of legislation and under  its  provisionsthe  Collector	was  authorized to recover  the	 arrears  ofincome tax as land revenue on receipt of a certificate	fromthe Income Tax Officer.	 On behalf of the respondent it	 wascontended  that	 these sections of the Act  and	 the  IndianIncome	Tax  Act did offend Arts. 14, 19, 21 and 22  of	 theConstitution.	It  was further contended that on  a  properinterpretation of s. 46(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act	 theauthority   given  to  the  Collector  on  receipt  of	 thecertificate  from the Income Tax Officer was to recover	 theamount of arrears of Income tax, but there was no  authoritythereunder in the Collector to arrest (1) [1950] S.C.R. 88.975the defaulting assessee.  Even if the said section could  beinterpreted  to give the power of arrest, arrest could	onlybe  made under s. 48 of the Act.  A proper reading of s.  48of the Act would indicate that the defaulter should be givenan  opportunity	 to be heard in his defence, previous  to  awarrant	 of  arrest being issued against him,  as  the	samecould only issue if the Collector had reason to believe thatthe defaulter was wilfully withholding the arrears of tax orhad  been  guilty of fraudulent conduct in  order  to  evadepayment.   Such	 a belief could not be	entertained  by	 theCollector without first giving the defaulter an	 opportunityto  be	heard.	 The warrant of arrest	issued	against	 therespondent  without hearing him in his defence	wag  invalidand  the arrest of the respondent was illegal.	The  learnedAdvocate  for the respondent further drew our  attention  tothe  fact  that	 in s. 48 there was  no	 provision  for	 therelease	 of  the  defaulter if he paid	up  the	 arrears  ofrevenue.  What	we have to consider in this appeal, at	the  outset,is,  whether  either  s. 48 of the Act or s.  46(2)  of	 theIndian Income Tax Act or both offend Arts. 14, 19, 21 and 22of  the	 Constitution.	 The  decisions	 of  this  Court  inGopalan's case, in The State of Punjab v.Ajaib Singh (1) andin Purshottam Govindji Halai v.Shree B. B. Desai, AdditionalCollector  of Bombay(2) are to be borne in mind in  decidingthis question.  It  was  held	 by the majority of the	 learned  Judges  inGopalan's case that the right "to move freely throughout theterritory  of India " referred to in Art. 19 (1) (d) of	 theConstitution was but one of the many attributes included  inthe concept of the right to " personal liberty " and when  aperson is lawfully deprived of his personal liberty  withoutoffending  Art. 21, he cannot claim to exercise any  of	 theright$ guaranteed by sub-cls. (a) to (e) and (g) of Art.  19(1),  for those rights can only be exercised by	 a  freeman.In that sense, therefore, Art. 19 (1) (d) has to be read  ascontrolled  by the provisions of Art. 21, and the view	thatArt.  19  guarantees  the  substantive	right  and  Art.  21prescribes a procedural protection is incorrect.(1) [1953] S.C.R. 254.	    (2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 887.976The  decision  in Gopalan's case has been followed  in	thisCourt  in  a series of cases and that decision must  now  betaken  as  having  settled once for all	 that  the  personalrights guaranteed by sub-cls. (a) to (e) and (g) Of Art.  19(1) are in a way dependent on the provisions of Art. 21 justas  the	 right guaranteed by sub-cl. (f) of Art. 19  (1)  issubject	 to  Art.  31.	If the	property  itself  is  taken;lawfully  under Art. 31, the right to hold or dispose of  itperishes  with	it and Art. 19 (1) (f)	cannot	be  invoked.Likewise, if life or personal liberty is taken away lawfullyunder  Art.  21 no question of the exercise  of	 fundamentalrights	under Art. 19 (1) (a) to (e) and (g) can be  raised.Under  Art.  21	 "  Procedure established  by  law  "  meansprocedure  enacted  by a law made by the State, that  is  tosay, the Union Parliament or the Legislatures of the States.In the appeal before us, the principal question,  therefore,is  whether  the  respondent was deprived  of  his  personalliberty	 in accordance with a procedure established by	law,i.e.,  a  valid law.  If the law is valid then he  has	beenlawfully  deprived  of	his personal liberty  and,  in	thatsituation,  he cannot complain of the infraction of  any  ofthe fundamental rights mentioned in Art. 19(1)	  (a) to (e)or (g).In  Ajaib Singh's case, a person was taken into	 custody  bythe police and sent to the Officer-in-charge of the  nearestcamp  under  s.	 4 of the  Abducted  Persons  (Recovery	 andRestoration) Act (Act LXV of 1949) and it was submitted thatthe said Act contravened the provisions, inter alia, of Art.22  of	the Constitution.  None of  these  submissions	werefound  to  be  valid.  It was held, so far  as	Art.  22  isconcerned,  that the taking into custody was not arrest	 anddetention  within  the	meaning of  Art.  22.	KrishnaswamiNayudu	J.  in his judgment, attempted	to  distinguish	 thedecision.   With respect to the learned Judge the  principleemerging  out of the decision in Ajaib Singh's case  appearsto  us to be clear enough.  The decision did not attempt  tolay  down in a precise and meticulous manner the  scope	 andambit of the fundamental rights or to enumerate exhaustivelythe cases that come within the protection of Art. 22.	Whatwas977clearly	 laid down was that the physical restraint put	uponan  abducted person in the process of recovering and  takingthat   person  into  custody  without  any   allegation	  oraccusation  of	any  actual  or	 suspected  or	 apprehendedcommission  by that person of any offence of a	criminal  orquasi-criminal nature or of any act prejudicial to the Stateor  the public interest, cannot be regarded as an arrest  ordetention  within  the meaning of Art. 22.  In	the  presentcase,  the arrest was not in connection with any  allegationor  accusation	of any actual or  suspected  or	 apprehendedcommission  of any offence of a criminal  or  quasi-criminalnature.	  It  was really an arrest for a civil debt  in	 theprocess	 or  the  mode prescribed by  law  for	recovery  ofarrears of land revenue.  In Purshottam Govindji Halai's case, this Court held	thatthere was no violation of Art. 21 of the Constitution  wherea  person had been arrested under s. 13 of the	Bombay	LandRevenue Act 1876 in pursuance of a warrant of arrest  issuedfor  recovery of the demand certified under s. 46(2) of	 theIndian	Income Tax Act, which did not offend Art. 14 of	 theConstitution, inasmuch as such arrest was under a  procedureestablished  by law, that is to say, s. 13 of the  said	 Actconstituted  a	procedure established by law.	Mr.  Pocker,however,  attempted  to distinguish the case,  because	thisCourt was dealing with s. 13 of the Bombay Act.	 The groundsstated	in  that  case for declaring that s.  46(2)  of	 theIndian Income Tax Act was not ultra vires the  Constitution,as it did not offend Art. 14, are equally applicable to	 thepresent case and we can find no true principle upon which wecan distinguish that case from the present one.  In our opinion, having regard to the previous decisions ofthis  Court referred to above, neither s. 48 of the Act	 nors. 46(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act violates Arts. 14, 19,21 and 22 of the Constitution.  We  now proceed to -consider the interpretation sought  tobe  put by Mr. Pocker on s. 46(2) of the Indian	 Income	 TaxAct and s. 48 of the Act.  He contended that s. 46(2) of theIndian	Income	Tax Act merely authorised the  Collector  torecover the amount126978of  arrears  of	 Income Tax, but it did	 not  give  him	 anyauthority  to arrest the respondent.  He submitted that	 theact  of arrest was not a mode of recovery of the arrears  oftax,  but  it was a punishment for failure to pay.   We	 areunable	to accept this interpretation.	The authority  givento  the Collector by this section is to recover the  arrearsof  tax	 as  if	 it were an arrear  of	land  revenue.	 Thepreamble of the Act clearly states that the laws relating tothe collection of the public revenue should be	consolidatedand simplified and s. 5 provides for the manner in which thearrears	 of revenue may be recovered.  It reads, "  Wheneverrevenue	 may  be  in  arrear, it shall	be  lawful  for	 theCollector,  or other officer empowered by the  Collector  inthat behalf, to proceed to recover the arrear, together withinterest   and	costs  of  process,  by	 the  sale  of	 thedefaulter's movable and immovable property, or by  executionagainst	 the person of the defaulter in	 manner	 hereinafterprovided."  This  section  clearly  sets  out  the  mode  ofrecovery  of arrears of revenue, that is to say,  either  bythe  sale  of  the  movable or	immovable  property  of	 thedefaulter, or by execution against his person in the  mannerprovided by the Act.  Section 48 provides that when  arrearsof revenue cannot be liquidated by the sale of the  propertyof  the	 defaulter then the Collector, if he has  reason  tobelieve	 that the defaulter is wilfully withholding  paymentof  the arrears or has been guilty of fraudulent conduct  inorder to evade payment of tax, can lawfully cause the arrestand  imprisonment of the defaulter.  This section read	withs.  5,	makes  it abundantly clear that the  arrest  of	 thedefaulter  is  one  of the modes, by which  the	 arrears  ofrevenue	 can  be recovered, to be resorted to  if  the	saidarrears cannot be liquidated by the sale of the	 defaulter'sproperty.   There is not a suggestion in the entire  sectionthat  the arrest is by way of punishment for  mere  default.Before	the Collector can proceed to arrest  the  defaulter,not merely must the condition be satisfied that the  arrearscannot	be  liquidated by the sale of the  property  of	 thedefaulter  but	the Collector shall have reason	 to  believethat  the defaulter is wilfully withholding payment, or	 hasbeen guilty of fraudulent conduct in order to evade979payment.  When dues in the shape of money are to be realisedby  the	 procees of law and not by  voluntary  payment,	 theelement	 of coercion in varying degrees must necessarily  befound  at  all stages in the mode of recovery of  the  moneydue.  The coercive element, perhaps in its severest form, isthe  act  of arrest in order to make the defaulter  pay	 hisdues.	When  the  Collector  has  reason  to  believe	thatwithholding of payment is wilful, or that the defaulter	 hasbeen guilty of fraudulent conduct in order to evade payment,obviously,  it is on the supposition that the defaulter	 canmake  the  payment, but is wilfully withholding	 it,  or  isfraudulently evading payment.  In the Act there are  severalsections  (e.g.	 ss.  16, 18 and  21)  which  prescribe,  inunambiguous language, punishment to be inflicted for certainacts  done.   It  is clear, therefore, that  where  the	 Actintends	 to impose a punishment or to create an offence,  itemploys a language entirely different to that to be found ins.  48.	  We are of the opinion, therefore,  that  where  anarrest	is  made under s. 48 after complying with  its	pro-visions,  the arrest is not for any offence committed  or  apunishment  for	 defaulting  in any payment.   The  mode  ofarrest	is  no more than a mode for recovery of	 the  amountdue.There  is  nothing in s. 48 of the Act	which  requires	 theCollector  to give the defaulter an opportunity to be  heardbefore	arresting him.	It is true that the  Collector	musthave  reason  to  believe that	the  defaulter	is  wilfullywithholding payment or has been guilty of fraudulent conductin  order to evade payment.  The Collector, therefore,	musthave  some material upon which he bases his belief-a  beliefwhich must be rational belief-and a court may look into thatmaterial  in appropriate cases in order to find out  if	 theconditions  laid down in the section have been fulfilled  ornot.   From  the affidavits filed in the High Court  by	 theCollector and the Income Tax Officer it is quite clear	thatthere  was material upon which the Collector could base	 hisbelief that the respondent was wilfully withholding  paymentof  the	 arrears of -tax and had been guilty  of  fraudulentconduct in order to980evade payment.	The Collector was, therefore, justifiedin arresting the respondent.As  pointed out by Mr. Pocker, s. 48 of the Act does not  interms provide for the release of the defaulter if he pays upthe arrears, but it is to be remembered that in addition  tothe powers under s. 48 of the Act, the Collector has,  underthe  proviso  to  s. 46(2) of the  Indian  Income  Tax	Act,similar powers to that which a Civil Court has for  recoveryof an amount due under a decree.  It was held in  PurshottamGovindji Halai's case that the proviso is not an alternativeremedy	open  to the Collector but only	 confers  additionalpowers	on the Collector for the better and  more  effectiveapplication of the only mode of recovery authorized by	sub-see. (2) of s. 46 of the Indian Income Tax Act.	 Under s. 58of  the Civil Procedure Code a Civil Court must release	 thejudgment debtor if the amount due is paid.  Accordingly, theCollector  has	the power to release the  defaulter  if	 theamount	due  is	 paid  and there  is  no  substance  in	 thesubmission  of the learned Advocate.  Moreover, one  of	 theconditions precedent to action under s. 48 is the  existenceof  arrears  of revenue.  On payment of	 the  arrears,	thatcondition  no longer exists and the debtor must	 clearly  beentitled to release and freedom from arrest.  It  was  urged that the respondent was a man of  about  70years at the time of his arrest and a 'Person suffering fromserious	 ill  health.  Indeed, it is said, he  is  sufferingfrom  paralysis and that he should not be sent back to	jailcustody.  We cannot in the present proceedings make such  anorder.	 The  respondent may, if he is	taken  into  custodyagain,	approach the Collector for his release who could  doso,  in	 the circumstances set out in s. 59 of the  Code  ofCivil  Procedure,  in the exercise of his powers  under	 theproviso to s. 46(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act.  The  appeal  is  accordingly allowed with  costs  and	 thejudgment of the High Court is set aside.  It will be open tothe  Income  Tax Officer of Kozikhode and the  Collector  ofMalabar to take such steps against the 'respondent accordingto law as they may be advised.			  Appeal allowed.981