PETITIONER:KAPUR CHAND POKHRAJ	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/03/1958BENCH:ACT:       Criminal trial-Repeal of Penal Statute-Saving of	 'Liability       incurred',  scope  of-Sanction by authority empowered  under       repealing statute-If valid for prosecution for offence under       repealed	  statute--Sentence-Whether   plea  of	 guilty	  a       consideration  for  awarding light  sentence-Enhancement	 of       sentence-Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1946 (Bom V of 1946), ss.	 2,       3  and 24, Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953 (Bom.  III	 of  1953),       ss.  2, 3, 36, 37, 48 and 49-Bombay Sales Tax Ordinance	III       of 1952, SS. 2, 3, 36 and 37.HEADNOTE:The appellant was registered under the Bombay Sales Tax Act,1946.	He  maintained	double sets  of	 account  books	 andknowingly  furnished, for the period September 30,  1950  toMarch  31, 1951, false returns to the Sales Tax Officer	 andthereby	 committed an offence under S. 24(1)(b) of the	Act.Under the Act sanction of the Collector was necessary beforecognizance  of the offence could be taken by a	Court.	 TheI946 Act was repealed by the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1952, butthe  1952  Act was declared ultra vires by the	Bombay	HighCourt.	Thereupon the Bombay Sales Tax Ordinance 11 Of	1952was  promulgated which provided that the 1946 Act was to  bedeemed	to  have been in existence up to November  1,  1952.This  was  followed by Ordinance 111 of 1952  which  furtherextended  the life of the 1946 Act.  Thereafter, the  BombaySales Tax Act, 1953 was passed which repealed both the	1946Act and Ordinance III of 1952.	The 1953 Act made  provisionfor an offence similar to that covered by S. 24(1)(b) of theAct, prescribed a similar procedure for prosecuting  personscommitting  the said offence and saved liabilities  incurredunder the 1946 Act.  During the period when Ordinance III of1952 was in force the State Government issued a notificationappointing the Additional Collector to be a Collector  underthe Ordinance, and the Additional Collector granted sanctionfor  the  prosecution of the appellant.	 The  appellant	 wastried  by the Presidency Magistrate before whom	 he  pleadedguilty.	  The  Magistrate accepted the plea,  convicted	 himunder  S.  24(1)(b) of the 1946 Act and sentenced him  to  afine  of Rs. 200, in default to suffer one month's  rigorousimprisonment.	The State preferred a revision to  the	HighCourt  for  enhancement	 of  the  sentence.   The  appellantcontended that by the repeal of the 1946 Act the offence waseffaced	 and that the prosecution was defective inasmuch  assanction  was given by the Additional Collector and  not  bythe  Collector as required by the 1946 Act.  The High  Courtrepelled both these contentions and enhanced the sentence torigorous imprisonment for one month in addition to the	finealready imposed251Held, that the offence under s. 24(1)(b) of the 1946 Act wascovered	 by  the saving clause in S. 48 of 953 Act  and	 theappellant could be convicted of that offence.  The saving bys.  48 of the 1953 Act of " any liability incurred  "  underthe 1946 Act saved both civil and criminal liability.Held,  that the sanction given by the  Additional  Collectorwas  a valid sanction for the prosecution of the  appellant.The   notification  issued  under  Ordinance  III  of	1952appointing  the	 Additional Collector as Collector  must  bedeemed	to have been made in exercise of the relevant  powerin respect of the offence saved by the Ordinance.   Further,the  notification must be deemed to have continued in  forceunder  the  1953  Act by reason of s.  49(2)  of  that	Act.Sanction  pertains  to	the  domain  of	 procedure  and	 theprocedure prescribed under the new 1953 Act must be followedeven  in  respect of offences committed under  the  repealed1946 Act.Held further, that in the circumstances of the case the HighCourt was justified in enhancing the sentence.	The sentenceshould	depend upon the gravity of the offence and not	uponthe  fact  that the accused pleaded guilty or  attempted  todefend	the case.  As the appellant had kept double sets  ofaccount	  books,  it  was  eminently  a	 case  in  which   asubstantive  sentence  ought to have been imposed,  and	 theMagistrate improperly exercised his discretion in awarding asentence  of  fine only.  But the High Court  was  wrong  inawarding rigorous imprisonment as s. 24(1)(b) provided	onlyfor simple imprisonment.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos. 34 to36 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly 1, 1955, of the Bombay High Court in Criminal  RevisionApplications  Nos.  351 to 353 of 1955 arising	out  of	 thejudgment  and order dated November 5, 1954, of the Court  ofthe  Presidency Magistrate 14th Court at Girgaum, Bombay  inCases Nos. 328 to 330/P of 1954.H.   J. Umrigar and A. G. Ratnaparkhi, for the appellant.M.   S. K. Sastri and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1958.	March 24.  The following Judgment of the  Court	 wasdelivered bySUBBA  RAO  J.-These appeals by special leave  are  directedagainst the judgment of the High Court of252Judicature  at	Bombay	made  in  three	 connected  CriminalRevision   applications	 and  raise  the  question  of	 themaintainability	 of prosecution of a person for	 an  offencecommitted  under  s. 24(1)(b) of the Bombay Sales  Tax	Act,1946  (Bom.   V	 of 1946) (hereinafter referred	 to  as	 therepealed Act).The  facts  that  give rise to the appeals  may	 be  brieflystated:	 The  appellant, Sri Kapur Chand  Pokhraj,  was	 theproprietor of Messrs.  N. Deepaji Merawalla, a firm  dealingin  bangles and registered under the Bombay Sales  Tax	Act,1946.  He did not disclose the correct turnover of his salesto  the Sales Tax Department in the three quarterly  returnsfurnished  by  him to the said Department on  September	 30,1950,  December 31, 1950, and March 31, 1951,  respectively.He maintained double sets of books of accounts and knowinglyfurnished  false returns for the said three quarters to	 theSales Tax Officer and thereby -committed an offence under s.24(1)(b)  of the repealed Act.	Under that Act, sanction  ofthe  Collector	was a condition precedent for  launching  ofprosecution  in	 respect of an offence	committed  under  s.24(1)  of  the said Act.  The said Act was repealed  by	 theBombay	Sales Tax Act, 1952 (Bom.  XXIV of 1952), which	 waspublished  on  October 9, 1952.	 On December 11,  1952,	 theBombay	High Court declared the Act of 1952 ultra vires	 andthe  State  .of	 Bombay	 preferred  an	appeal	against	 thejudgment of the Bombay High Court to the Supreme Court.	  OnDecember  22,  1952, the State Government, in order  to	 getover  the dislocation caused by the Bombay judgment,  issuedthe  Bombay Sales Tax Ordinance II of 1952, where  under  itwas provided that the 1946 Act was to be deemed to have beenin existence up to November 1, 1952.  On December 24,  1952,another	 Ordinance, Ordinance III of 1952,  was	 promulgatedextending  the life of the Act of 1946.	 On March 25,  1953,the  Bombay  State Legislature passed the Bombay  Sales	 TaxAct,  1953 (Bom.  III of 1953), (hereinafter referred to  asthe  repealing	Act),  repealing the Act  of  1946  and	 theOrdinance  III of 1952.	 The material fact to be noticed  isthat the Act III of 1953, though it repealed the earlier Actand the Ordinance extending253the life of that Act, made provision for an offence  similarto that covered by s. 24(1) of the repealed Act,  prescribeda  similar procedure for prosecuting persons committing	 thesaid  offence and saved the liabilities incurred  under	 therepealed  Act.	During the period when the Ordinance III  of1952   was   in	 force,	 the  State  Government	  issued   anotification  under  s. 3 of that Ordinance  appointing	 theAdditional  Collector of Bombay to be a Collector under	 thesaid  Ordinance.   On July 4, 1953, i.e., after Act  III  of1953 came into force, Mr. Joshi, the Additional Collector ofBombay,	  granted  sanction  for  the  prosecution  of	 theappellant  in respect of the offence committed by him  unders.  24(1)(b)  of  the repealed	Act.   After  obtaining	 thesanction, the appellant was prosecuted under s. 24(1)(b)  ofthe  Bombay  Sales  Tax Act, 1946.   Before  the  PresidencyMagistrate the appellant pleaded guilty to the charge.	 Thelearned	 Magistrate accepted his plea and convicted him	 forthe  offence for which he was charged and sentenced  him  topay  a	fine of Rs. 200, in default to	suffer	one  month'srigorous  imprisonment.	  The State of	Bombay	preferred  aRevision  against  the	said  Order to	the  High  Court  ofjudicature  at Bombay praying that the sentence	 imposed  onthe  appellant	be  enhanced  on  the  ground  that  as	 theappellant  kept	 double sets of accounts  and  intentionallyfurnished   false  information,	 the  interest	of   justicerequired  that	substantive  and heavy	sentence  should  beimposed	 on  him.   Before the	High  Court,  the  appellantpleaded	 that by the repeal of the Sales Tax Act, 1946,	 theoffence,  if any, committed by him was effaced and  that  inany view the prosecution was defective inasmuch as  sanctionhad  been given by the Additional Collector and not  by	 theCollector of Sales Tax.	 The contentions did not find favourwith the learned Judge of the High Court. In rejecting them,the  learned  Judge enhanced the sentence  passed  upon	 theappellant to rigorous imprisonment for a period of one monthin  each of the three cases in addition to the fine  alreadyimposed	 by  the Magistrate.  He  directed  the	 substantivesentence  of  imprisonment  in all the	three  cases  to  beconcurrent.  The appellant obtained special leave254from  this  Court to prefer the above  appeals	against	 thejudgment of the High Court.The  learned Counsel for the appellant raised before us	 thesame  contentions  which his  client  unsuccessfully  raisedbefore	the High Court.	 We shall now proceed to  deal	withthem seriatim.The main argument of the learned Counsel was that the BombaySales Tax Act, 1953 (Bom.  III of 1953) in repealing the Actof  1946  did  not save penalties  in  respect	of  offencescommitted  under that Act and therefore no  prosecution	 wasmaintainable  in respect of an offence committed  under	 theAct  of 1946.  A clearer conception of the argument  can  behad by looking at the relevant saving provisions enacted  inAct III of 1953 and also the relevant sections of the BombayGeneral Clauses Act.  Section 48(2) of the Bombay Sales	 TaxAct, 1953 reads:"  Notwithstanding the repeal of the said Act and  the	saidentries,  the said repeal shall not affect or be  deemed  toaffect-(i)  any  right,  title,  obligation  or  liability  alreadyacquired, accrued or incurred;(ii) any  legal	 proceeding  pending  on  the  1st  day	  ofNovember, 1952 in respect of any right, title, obligation orliability or anything done or suffered before the Raid date;and any such proceeding shall be continued and disposed	 of,as if this Act had not been passed;(iii)the  recovery  of	any tax or penalty  which  may	havebecome	payable	 under	the said Act and  the  said  entriesbefore	the  said date; and all such taxes or  penalties  orarrears thereof shall be assessed, imposed and recovered, sofar  as	 may be, in accordance with the provisions  of	thisAct; ".Section 7 of the Bombay General Clauses Act says:"  Where  this	Act,  or  any  Bombay  Act  made  after	 thecommencement  of  this Act, repeals any	 enactment  hithertomade  or  thereafter to be made, then,	unless	a  differentintention appears, the repeal shall not-(a)  revive anything not in force or existing at the time atwhich the repeal takes effect; or(b) affect the previous operation of any enactment255so repealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or(c)  affect  any right, privilege, obligation  or  liabilityacquired,  accrued  or	incurred  under	 any  enactment	  sorepealed; or(d)  affect  any penalty, forfeiture or punishment  incurredin respect of any offence committed against any enactment sorepealed; or(e)  affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy inrespect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability,penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid,and any such investigation,, legal proceeding or remedy	 maybe instituted, continued or enforced, and any such  penalty,forfeiture or punishment may be imposed, as if the repealingAct had not been passed."A  comparative study of the aforesaid  provisions  indicatesthat  while  under s. 7 of the Bombay General  Clauses	Act,there  is  a specific saving of any penalty,  forfeiture  orpunishment  incurred  in respect of  any  offence  committedunder the enactment repealed, as distinct from civil  rightsand liabilities, under s. 48 of Act III of 1953, there is noseparate  treatment  of Civil and  Criminal  matters;  whileunder  the  former provisions legal proceedings	 are  saved,under  the  latter provisions legal proceedings	 pending  onNovember   1,  1952,  in  respect  of  rights  acquired	  orliabilities  incurred under the repealed Act are saved.	  Bysuch  a study of the two provisions, the argument  proceeds,it  is clear that the enactment of a specific saving  clausein  the	 repealing Act indicates a " different	intention  "excluding  the operation of s. 7 of the General Clauses	 Actand  the  omission  under s. 48 of the repealing  Act  of  aclause	similar	 to el. (d) of s. 7 of the  General  ClausesAct, demonstrates that the liability saved excludes criminalliability.  In our view the consideration of the  provisionsof  s. 7 of the General Clauses Act need not detain us,	 fors.  48(2)(i) of the repealing Act affords a complete  answerto  the question raised.  Under that clause, the repeal	 didnot  affect  any  right, title or  obligation  or  liabilityalready acquired, accrued or I incurred, The words liability256incurred " are very general and comprehensive and ordinarilytake in both civil and criminal liability.  In Criminal	 Lawthe  term  " liability covers every form  of  punishment  towhich  a man subjects himself -by violating the law  of	 theland.	There  is no reason why the all	 comprehensive	wordshould not carry its full import but be restricted to  civilliability  alone  ?  The context does not  compel  any	suchlimitation.   Indeed,  there  is no  conceivable  ground  toimpute	to  the Legislature the intention to  wipe  out	 theoffences committed under the repealed Act, when it expresslyretained  the  same offences under the	repealing  Act.	  Ifthere was any justification for preserving Civil liabilitiesincurred  under	 the  repealed	Act,  there  was  an   equaljustification  to save criminal liabilities  incurred  underthat repealed Act.  The fact that s. 7 of the Bombay GeneralClauses	 Act  provided separately in different	clauses	 forCriminal  and  Civil  liabilities, while  s.  48(2)  of	 therepealing  Act	clubbed them together in one clause  is	 notdecisive  of the question raised, as, for ought we know,  s.48  might  be  an  attempt by  the  Legislature	 at  precisedrafting by omitting unnecessary words and clauses.  Nor thecircumstance that a special provision is made under s. 48(2)of the repealing Act -for pending proceedings is  indicativeof  any	 conscious  departure by the  Legislature  from	 theestablished practice embodied in s. 7 of the General ClausesAct indicating an intention to save only offences under	 therepealed  Act  in-respect of which  legal  proceedings	werepending	 on  a specified date.	It is more  likely,  as	 thelearned Judge of the Bombay High Court pointed out, that el.2  was enacted to obviate the argument that once a  case  issent up the liability merges in the proceedings launched andhas  to be saved specially.  On a fair reading of the  termsof  the saving clause in s. 48(2) of the repealing  Act,  wecannot	give  a restricted meaning to the  words"  liabilityincurred",  especially when the scheme of the Act  does	 notimply that the Legislature had any intention to exclude fromthe  saving  clause criminal liability	incurred  under	 therepealed  Act.	 We,  therefore,  hold	that  the  liabilityincurred	  257i.e.  the  offence  committed, under the  repealed  Act,  iscovered	 by  the  saving clause embodied in s.	48  of	-therepealing- Act.	 In this view it is not necessary to expressour view whether, by reason of the saving clause enacted  ins.  48	of the repealing Act, the  Legislature	indicated  adifferent intention within the meaning of s. 7 of the BombayGeneral	 Clauses  Act  so as to	 exclude  its  operation  inconstruing the provisions of the repealing Act.Even  so, the learned Counsel contended that the  appellant,who committed the offence under the repealed Act, should  beprosecuted only with the previous sanction of the  Collectoras provided by that Act, but as the sanction in the  presentcase  was given by the Additional Collector, the  Magistratehad  no jurisdiction to take cognizance of the offence.	  Toappreciate this argument it would be necessary to notice theprovisions relating to sanction in the repealing Act and  inthe Acts and Ordinances that preceded it." BOMBAY SALES TAX ACT, 1946." Section 24 (1)(b): Whoever-fails,without sufficient cause,to submit any  return  as  required by,	 section 10 or know-ingly submits a false return,...............................shall,	in addition to the recovery of any tax that  may  bedue  from him be punishable with simple	 imprisonment  whichmay  extend  to six months or with fine	 not  exceeding	 onethousand  rupees  or with both; and when the  offence  is  acontinuing one, with a daily fine not exceeding fifty rupeesduring the period of the continuance of the offence."Section 24(2): No Court shall take cognizance of any offenceunder  this Act, or under the rules made thereunder,  exceptwith  the  previous sanction of the Collector and  no  Courtinferior  to that of a Magistrate of the Second Class  shalltry any such offence."" Section 2(a) : " Collector " means the Collector of  SalesTax appointed under sub-section (1) of Section 3."" Section 3(1) : For carrying out the purposes of33258this Act, the State Government may appoint any person to  bea  Collector of Sales Tax and such other persons  to  assisthim as the State Government thinks fit."ORDINANCE No. II of 1952:Under  this Ordinance, Bombay Act V of 1946 and the  entriesrelating to the said Act in the third schedule to the BombayMerged States (Laws) Act, 1950 were deemed to have continuedto be in force up to and inclusive of November 1, 1952.ORDINANCE III OF 1952:"Section 36.  Offences and Penalties:  whoever    (b)	 fails	 without sufficient cause,  to	furnish	 anyreturn	or  statement  as required by section 13  or  18  orknowingly furnishes a false return or statement,...........in addition to the recovery of any tax that may be due	fromhim, be punishable with simple imprisonment which may extendto six months or with fine not exceeding two thousand rupeesor with both; and when the offence is a continuing one, witha  daily  fine not exceeding one hundred rupees	 during	 theperiod of the continuance of the offence."" Section 37.  Cognizance of offences. (1).  No Court  shalltake  cognizance of any offence punishable under section  36or under any rules made under this Ordinance except with theprevious sanction of the Collector and no Court inferior  tothat of a Magistrate of the Second Class shall try any	suchoffence.""  Section 2(6): " Collector " means the Collector of  SalesTax appointed under section 3.""  Section  3(1):  For carrying out  the  purposes  of	thisOrdinance, the State Government may appoint any person to bea  Collector of Sales Tax, and such other persons to  assisthim as the State Government thinks fit."BOMBAY SALES TAX ACT, 1953 (Act III of 1953):" Section 36: Whoever-(b)  fails  without sufficient cause, to furnish any  returnor statement as required by Section 13 or 18 or259knowingly furnishes a false return or statement............shall,	in addition to the recovery of any tax that  may  bedue  from him, be punishable with simple imprisonment  whichmay  extent  to six months or with fine	 not  exceeding	 twothousand  rupees  or with both; and when the  offence  is  acontinuing one, with a daily fine not exceeding one  hundredrupees during the period of the continuance of the offence.""Section  49(2):  Any  appointment,  notification,   notice,order, rule, regulation or form made or issued or deemed  tohave been made or issued under the Ordinance hereby repealedshall  continue in force and be deemed to have been made  orissued	under the provisions of this Act. in so far as	suchappointment,  notification, notice, order, rule,  regulationor form is not inconsistent with the provision of this	Act,unless it has been already, or until it is superseded by  anappointment,  notification, notice, order, rule,  regulationor form made or issued under this Act."THE BOMBAY SALES TAX (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1956.(BOMBAY ACT NO.	 XXXIX OF 1956)Section 3. Amendment to section 3 of Bom.  III of 1953 :  Insection	 3  of	the  said  Act,	 for  sub-section  (1),	 thefollowing  sub-section shall be and shall be deemed ever  tohave been substituted, namely:-(1)  for  carrying out the purpose of this  Act,  the  StateGovernment may appoint-(a)  a person to be the Collector of Sales Tax, and(b)  one  or  more persons to be  Additional  Collectors  ofSales Tax, and(c)  such other persons to assist the Collector as the StateGovernment thinks fit."NOTIFICATION  ISSUED BY THE STATE GOVERNMENT  UNDER  SECTION(3) OF THE ORDINANCE III OF 1952:"Government of Bombay is pleased to declare the	  AdditionalCollector of Sales Tax, Bombay State, Bombay, as " Collectorof  Sales  Tax, Bombay State, Bombay " for purposes  of	 theBombay Sales260Tax  (No.  2) Ordinance, 1952 (Bombay Ordinance No.  III  of1952)." It  will be seen from the aforesaid provisions	 that  underthe  Acts  as  well  as	 under	the  Ordinances,   knowinglyfurnishing  a false return or statement is made	 an  offencepunishable  with simple imprisonment or fine or	 with  both.The only difference is that under the Ordinance and the	 Actof  1953, the maximum amount of fine is increased  from	 Rs.1,000  to Rs. 2,000.  Under the Ordinance as well  as  underthe  Acts, no Court can take cognizance of the said  offenceexcept	with  the previous sanction of the  Collector.	 Theterm  Collector " is defined in similar terms in  the  Ordi-nance  as well as in the Acts, i e., a person  appointed  as,"Collector  "	by the State Government.   The	notificationissued by the State Government under Ordinance 11I of  1952,appointing  the Additional Collector as Collector  of  SalesTax  must be deemed to have continued to be in	force  underthe  Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953, by reason of s. 49  (2)  ofthat  Act, as it is common case that no	 fresh	notificationwas  made  under  that Act repealing that  made	 under	thatOrdinance.   Shortly  stated, the Bombay Act  III  of  1953,introduced  the	 same  offence and  provided  for  the	samemachinery that its predecessors contained.On  the basis of the aforesaid provisions, the	argument  ofthe  learned Counsel for the appellant is that as the  StateGovernment  appointed the Additional Collector as  Collectorof Sales Tax in exercise of the power conferred on it  underthe Ordinance III of 1952 and not under the power  conferredon  it	by  the	 repealed Act, the  sanction  given  by	 theAdditional Collector to prosecute the appellant is  invalid.The  first answer to this contention is that, as  the  StateGovernment had the power to appoint any person including' anAdditional  Collector as Collector of Sales Tax	 both  underthe  repealed Act as well as the Ordinance III of 1952,	 theappointment may reasonably be construed to have been made inexercise  of  the relevant power in respect of	the  offencesaved  under  the  Ordinance.  The  second  answer  is	morefundamental.   There is an essential distinction between  anoffence and the261prosecution  for an offence.  The former forms part  of	 thesubstantive  law  and  the latter  of  procedural  law.	  Anoffence is. an aggregate of acts or omissions punishable  bylaw while prosecution signified the procedure for  obtainingan  adjudication  of  Court  in	 respect  of  such  acts  oromissions.   Sanction or prior approval of an  authority  ismade  a	 condition  precedent  to  prosecute  in  regard  tospecified  offences.   Prosecution  without  the   requisitesanction makes the entire proceeding ab initio void.  It  isintended  to be a safeguard against  frivolous	prosecutionsand  also to give an opportunity to the authority  concernedto decide in the circumstances of a particular case  whetherprosecution  is	 necessary.  Sanction to  prosecute  for  anoffence is not, therefore, an ingredient of the offence, butit    really   pertains	  to   procedure.    In	   Maxwell'sInterpretation of Statutes, the following passage appears atpage 225:" Although to make a law punish that which, at the time whenit  was	 done,	was not punishable,  is	 contrary  to  soundprinciple, a law which merely alters the procedure may, withperfect	 propriety,  be made applicable to past as  well  asfuture transactions."In the instant case when the repealing Act did not make	 anychange either in the offence or in the procedure  prescribedto  prosecute  for  that offence  and  expressly  saved	 theoffence committed under the repealed Act, the intention	 canbe   legitimately  imputed  to	the  Legislature  that	 theprocedure prescribed' under the new Act should be  followed,even  in  respect of offences committed under  the  repealedAct.   If so, it follows that, as sanction pertains  to	 thedomain	of procedure, the sanction given by  the  AdditionalCollector  appointed by the State as Collector of Sales	 Taxwas valid.Even  so, it was contended that the notification  appointingthe  Additional Collector as Collector of Sales	 Tax  issuedunder  Ordinance  No.  11 of 1952 would	 not  enure  to	 theprosecution  launched under Act III of 1953.  This  argumentignored the express provisions of s. 49 (2) of the said	 Act(already extracted supra), which in clear and express  termslaid down262that notifications issued or orders made under the  repealedOrdinance would be deemed to have been made or issued  underthe provisions of the Act and would continue to be in  forceuntil  superseded  by appropriate  orders  or  notificationsunder  the  new Act.  It was not suggested  that  any  freshnotification  revoking	that made under	 the  Ordinance	 wasissued under the repealing Act.	 If so, it follows that	 thenotification  issued  under  the  Ordinance  appointing	 theAdditional Collector as Collector of Sales Tax continued  tobe  in force when the said Collector gave sanction  to	pro-secute	the appellant.	In this view it is not necessary  toconsider the scope of the Bombay Sales Tax (Amendment)	Act,1956.Lastly, a strong plea was made for reducing the sentence  ofimprisonment given by the High Court to that of fine. It wassaid that the Magistrate in exercise of his discretion	gavethe sentence of fine and the High Court was not justified inenhancing  the	same  to  imprisonment	without	 giving	 anyreasons which compelled them to do so.	Reliance was  placedin this context on two decisions of this Court--Dalip  Singhv.  State  of Punjab (1) and Bed Raj v. The State  of  UttarPradesh	 (2).	In  the	 former	 case,	the  Sessions  Judgeconvicted  each of the 7 accused under s. 302, Indian  PenalCode  read  with s. 149, Indian Penal Code.   As  the  fatalinjuries could not be attributed to any one of the  accused,he  refrained from passing a sentence of death, but  insteadhe convicted them to imprisonment for life.  The High Court,without	 giving	 any reasons, changed their  sentences	fromtransportation	to  death.   Bose  J.  who  delivered.	 thejudgment of the Court, in holding that the High Court shouldnot  have  interfered with the discretion exercised  by	 theSessions Judge, made the following observation at page 156:" But the discretion is his and if he gives reasons on whicha  judicial mind could properly found, and  appellate  Courtshould not interfere.  The power to enhance a sentence	fromtransportation to death should very rarely be exercised	 andonly for the strongest(1) [1954] S. C. R, 145.(2) [1955] 2 S. C. R. 583.263possible  reasons.  It is not enough for an appellate  Courtto  say,  or  think, that if left to itself  it	 would	haveawarded the greater penalty because the discretion does	 notbelong to the appellate Court but to the trial Judge and theonly  ground  on which an appellate Court can  interfere  isthat  the discretion has been improperly exercised,  as	 forexample, where no reasons are given and none can be inferredfrom  the circumstances of the case, or where the facts	 areso gross that no normal Judicial mind would have awarded thelesser penalty."In  the	 latter case, the appellant along with	another	 wasconvicted  by the Sessions Judge under s. 304  Indian  PenalCode  and sentenced to three years'  rigorous  imprisonment.On appeal the High Court enhanced the sentence to ten years.In  enhancing  the  sentence, the learned  Judges  gave	 thereason that the deceased was unarmed and the attack was madewith a knife and it could not be said that the appellant didnot  act  in  a cruel or unusual  manner.   This  Court,  inallowing  the appeal on the question of sentence,  made	 thefollowing observation at page 588:" A question of a sentence is a matter of discretion and  itis  well  settled  that when discretion	 has  been  properlyexercised along accepted judicial lines, an appellate  Courtshould	not interfere to the detriment of an accused  personexcept	for very strong reasons which must be  disclosed  onthe  face of the judgment.................. In a  matter  ofenhancement  there  should  not	 be  interference  when	 thesentence    passed    imposes	 substantial	 punishment.Interference  is  only	called for  when  it  is  manifestlyinadequate."These observations are entitled to great weight.  But it  isimpossible  to lay down a hard and fast rule, for each	casemust  depend  upon its own facts.  Whether in a	 given	casethere  was  proper exercise of judicial	 discretion  by	 thetrial Judge depends upon the circumstances of that case.  Inthe present case, the appellant kept double sets of  accountbooks  and submitted false returns for successive  quarters,omitting  from	the turn-over shown by him  in	the  returnssubstantial   amounts.	  Under	 s.  24(1)   of	  the	Act,infringement of264the provisions of the Act is made punishable.  The  offencesunder  that  section  are  of  different  degrees  of  moralturpitude.  They range from a mere infringement of a rule toconscious  and deliberate making of false returns.  For	 allthe  offences, the section fixes the maximum  punishment  ofsimple	imprisonment  which may extend to six  months.	 Themagistrate,  who tries the offenders under that section,  isgiven  a wide discretion to could the punishment in  such  away  as	 to  make it commensurate with	the  nature  of	 theoffence	 committed.  Though the appellant adopted  a  syste-matic scheme to defraud the State by keeping double sets  ofaccount	 books and therefore deserved deterrent	 punishment,the  learned  Magistrate, presumably because  the  appellantpleaded	 guilty,  without giving any reasons, gave  him	 thelenient	 punishment of fine of Rs. 200.	 It is obvious	thatthe  sentence should depend upon the gravity of the  offencecommitted  and	not upon the fact that the  accused  pleadedguilty	or  made  an attempt to defend	the  case.   In	 thecircumstances  the  High Court was  certainly  justified  inenhancing  the sentence from fine to- imprisonment and	fineand it had given good reasons for doing so.  The High  Courtthought and, in our view, rightly that as the appellant	 hadkept  double sets of account books, it was eminently a	casein which a substantive sentence ought to have been  imposed.The  Magistrate	 has  improperly  exercised  his  discretionwithin	the  meaning of the aforesaid observations  of	thisCourt and therefore, the High Court was certainly within itsright to enhance the sentence.But  the  High	Court  committed a  mistake  in	 awarding  asentence of rigorous imprisonment for a period of one month,which  it is not entitled to do under the provisions  of  s.24(1)  of  the	Act.   Under  that  section  the  Court	 hadjurisdiction  only  to	give a maximum	sentence  of  simpleimprisonment  extending	 to  6 months but had  no  power  toimpose	a sentence of rigorous imprisonment.  This  mistake,if  any, should go to the benefit of the appellant, for	 theHigh Court might have imposed a sentence of longer period ofsimple imprisonment if it had realised that it had, no powerto sentence265the appellant to rigorous imprisonment.	 Be it as it may, asthe High Court had no power to impose a sentence of rigorousimprisonment   we   change  the	  sentence   from   rigorousimprisonment  to  simple imprisonment for a  period  of	 onemonth in each case.  With this modification the appeals	 aredismissed.			      Appeals dismissed.