PETITIONER:SITA RAM GOEL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE MUNICIPAL BOARD, KANPUR ANDOTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/08/1958BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR 1036		  1959 SCR 1148ACT:       Limitation-Dismissal  of employee by Municipal  Board-Rejec-       tion of appeal to Government-Suit against order of dismissal       after   disposal	 of  appeal-Period  of	limitation-U.	 P.       Municipalities  Act,  1916 (U.  P. 2 of 1916), ss.  58,	69,       326.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was appointed as overseer by  the  MunicipalBoard,	Kanpur,	 on  March 5, 1937,  and  continued  in	 itsservice up to March 19, 1951, when a copy of the  resolutionpassed by the Board on March 5, 1951, purporting to  dismisshim from service was handed over to him.  On April 7,  1951,he  filed an appeal to the Government against the  order  ofdismissal  from	 service, but he was informed  on  April  8,1952, that his appeal was rejected.  Thereafter on  December8,  1952,  the appellant instituted a suit  challenging	 thelegality  of the order of dismissal on various grounds,	 andthe  question arose whether the suit was within time.	Sub-section (I) Of s. 326 of the U. P. Municipalities Act, 1916,provided  that	no  suit  shall	 be  instituted	 against   aMunicipal  Board  " until the expiration of the	 two  monthsnext after notice in writing has been left at the office  ofthe Board... explicitly stating the cause of action " ;	 andsub-s.	(3) stated that " no action such as is described  insub-s.	(1) shall...be commenced otherwise than	 within	 sixmonths next after the accrual of the cause of action ".	 Theappellant contended that the cause of action accrued to	 himon April 8, 1952, when the order of dismissal of his  appealto  the	 Government was communicated to him  and  the  suit,filed within eight months of that date, was within time, andrelied on the provisions of s. 58 (1) and (2), read with  s.69, of the Act, which gave an officer dismissed by the Boarda  right of appeal to the Government within 30 days  of	 thecommunication to him of the order dismissal :Held, that though the order passed by the Board on March  5,1951,  was subject to a right of appeal to  the	 Government,the  operation	of the order was not suspended by  the	merefiling	of the appeal, and the order became  effective	fromMarch  19, 1951, when it was communicated to the  appellant.The cause of action, therefore, accrued to him on that date,and the suit filed by him on December 8, 1952, was barred bylimitation under S. 326	 of  the U. P.	Municipalities	Act,1916.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 149 of 1958.1149Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  2,  1957, of the Allahabad High  Court  in  FirstAppeal	No.  474 of 1956, arising out of  the  judgment	 andorder  dated  July 30, 1956, of the First  Additional  CivilJudge, Kanpur, in Civil Suit No. 257 of 1953.Appellant in person.C.   B.	 Gupta, 0. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal,  for  respondentNo.1.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for respondent No. 4.1958.	August 19.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI J.-This appeal with special leave under Art. 136 ofthe   Constitution   raises  an	 interesting   question	  oflimitation.The  appellant	was appointed an Overseer by  the  MunicipalBoard,	Kanpur, on March 5, 1937, with the approval  of	 theSuperintending Engineer, Public Health Department,  Lucknow.He  was	 confirmed by the Board's special  resolution  datedJuly 2, 1938, and continued in employ up to March 19,  1951,when  a copy of the resolution No. 1723 passed by the  Boardon March 5, 1951, purporting to dismiss him from employ	 washanded over to him.  Against the said resolution dated March5, 1951, the appellant filed an appeal to the Uttar  PradeshGovernment  on	April 7, 1951, but was informed by a  G.  0.dated  April  7, 1952, that his appeal	had  been  rejected.This  information  was	received by him on  April  8,  1952.Thereafter on December 8,1952, the appellant filed the	suitout  of which the present appeal arises, being Suit No.	 257of 1953 in the Court of the Additional Civil Judge,  Kanpur,impleading  the Municipal Board, Kanpur, Shri S.  B.  Gupta,Municipal Engineer, Shri Brahmanand Misra, the then Chairmanof  the Municipal Board and the Government of Uttar  Pradeshas  defendants and challenged the legality of the  dismissalorder  passed  against him on the ground that  the  previousapproval  of  the  Superintending  Engineer,  Public  HealthDepartment was not taken as required by the rules, that the1150appellant was denied an opportunity of being heard in personby  the	 Board, that no show-cause notice for  the  proposedpunishment  of dismissal was issued to him by the Board	 norwere the charges framed by it, that the dismissal order	 didnot  specify the charges, that some of the grounds on  whichhe  was	 dismissed did not form the  subject-matter  of	 thecharges	 at all, that in any case, the charges	framed	werefalse and malicious.  The appellant prayed for a declarationthat the order of his dismissal was ultra vires, illegal andvoid and claimed a total amount of Rs. 10,951 in respect  ofdamages,  allowances  for  doing  officiating  work,  bonus,arrears of salary and provident fund.The  suit was contested mainly by the Board and its  defencewas  to	 the  effect that the order  of	 dismissal  was	 notvitiated on the grounds of illegality or irregularity and inany case the suit was barred by limitation.The trial court found:-(a)that	 the appellant's substantive appointment was  thatof  an	Overseer  and not that of  a  Drainage	Overseer  asclaimed	 and  the approval of the  Superintending  Engineer,Public Health Department, Lucknow, for his dismissal was notnecessary;(b)that the order of dismissal of the appellant was  ultravires on the ground that he was not given an opportunity  ofbeing  personally heard by the Board;(c)  that  no  notice to  show cause  against  the  proposedpunishment was issued by the Board;(d)that	 the  order  of dismissal  was	based  on  certaingrounds which were not the suubject-matter of the charge andthat the Chairman of the -Board was notcompetent to try the appellant; but(e)that	  the  suit  of	 the  appellant	 was   barred	bylimitation.  The trial court accordingly dismissed the	suitwith costs.The appellant carried an appeal. being First Appeal .No. 474of 1956 before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad andcontended  that the suit filed by him against the Board	 waswithin limitation.  The appellant relied upon the provisionsof  s.	326 of the U. P. Municipalities Act (U.	  P.  11  of1916) (hereinafter1151referred  to as "the Act") and contended that the period  ofsix  months  contemplated by sub-s. (3) of s. 326  plus	 theperiod	of two months required for giving notice for  filingthe suit against the Board under sub-s. (1) of s. 326,	thatis, 8 months should be computed from April 8, 1952, on whichdate  the order of the dismissal of his appeal by the U.  P.Government  was	 communicated to him and not from  March  5,1951,  when  the  order of his dismissal by  the  Board	 waspassed	or March 19,1951, when that order of  dismissal	 wascommunicated to him by the Board.The  High  Court was of opinion that  the  Resolution  datedMarch  5, 1951, passed by the Board took effect	 immediatelyas  it	was  an order which was complete  and  effective  byitself	and its operation was not postponed for any  furtherperiod	nor  was  its  effect  suspended  until	 the   StateGovernment had passed orders in appeal.	 It accordingly cameto  the conclusion that the appellant's suit was  barred  bylimitation  under  s. 326 of the Act.  In view of  the	saidfinding	 the High Court did not go into any other  questionsat  issue between the parties but dismissed the appeal	withcosts.An application filed by the appellant for a certificate	 forleave  to appeal to this Court proved infructuous, with	 theresult that the appellant applied for and obtained from thisCourt  special leave to appeal against this judgment of	 theHigh Court.The only question that arises for our determination in	thisappeal	is  whether  the  appellant's  suit  was  barred  bylimitation,  because  if  that	is  determined	against	 theappellant it will be conclusive of this appeal.Section 326 of the Act runs as under:"  326(1)  No suit shall be instituted against a  Board,  oragainst	 a member, officer or servant of a board in  respectof an act done or purporting to have been done in its or hisofficial  capacity, until the expiration of the	 two  monthsnext  after  notice in writing has been, in the	 case  of  aBoard,	left  at its office, and in the case  of  a  member,officer	 or servant, delivered to him or left at his  officeor place of abode,1152explicitly  stating the cause of action, the nature  of	 therelief	sought, the amount of compensation claimed  and	 thename  and place of abode of the intending plaintiff and	 theplaint	shall contain a statement that such notice has	beenso delivered or left.(3)  No action such as is described in sub-section (1) shall,unless	it  is	an action for  the  recovery  of  immoveableproperty or for a declaration of title thereto, be commencedotherwise  than within six months next after the accrual  ofthe cause of action.Prima facie the period of six months provided in s.    326(3)above  would commence to run after the accrual of the  causeof  action  and the cause of action on which  the  appellantcame before the Court was his wrongful dismissal from employby  the	 Board.	 Even the extension of this  period  by	 twomonths,	 the requisite period of the notice under s.  326(1)would  not  save the appellant from the	 bar  of  limitationbecause be instituted his suit more than eight months  afterthe  Resolution	 dated March 5, 1951,  dismissing  him	fromemploy	was communicated to him.  The appellant,  therefore,particularly relied upon the provisions of s. 58(1) and	 (2)of the Act and urged that the cause of action accrued to himon April 8, 1952, when the order of dismissal of his  appealby the U. P. Government was communicated to him and the suitwhich he had filed on December 8, 1952, was therefore withintime.Section 69 of the Act which applied to the appellant read asunder:" A board may, by special resolution, punish or dismiss	 anyofficer	 appointed  under s. 68 subject	 to  the  conditionsprescribed  in	s.  58	in  respect  of	 the  punishment  ordismissal of an Executive Officer," andSection 58(1) and (2) provide:"  S.  58(1):  A board may punish,  dismiss  or	 remove	 itsExecutive  Officer by a special resolution supported by	 notless  than 2/3rd members constituting the board, subject  tohis right of appeal to the State Government1153within 30 days of the communication to him of the, order  ofpunishment or dismissal.(2):The State Government may suspend the Executive  Officerpending the decision of ail appeal under sub-section (1) andmay allow, disallow or vary the order of the Board."It  was	 argued by the appellant on the	 strength  of  theseprovisions  that the special resolution passed by the  Boardwas  subject to his right of appeal to the State  Governmentwithin	30 days of the communication thereof to him  and  inthe  event of his filing an appeal against the	same  withinthe  period specified, the resolution was kept	in  abeyanceand  did not come into operation until the decision  of	 theappeal	by  tile  State Government.  If	 that  was  so,	 liecontended,  his	 wrongful  dismissal  by  the  Board  becameoperative  as from the date when the decision of  the  StateGovernment was communicated to him and that was the date  onwhich  the  cause  of  action  in  regard  to  his  wrongfuldismissal  accrued  to him, with the result  that  the	suitfiled	by  him	 within	 8  months  of	such   communication(including  the period of 2 months' notice) was well  withintime.	He also supported this position by relying upon	 theprovisions of s. 58(2) which empowered the State  Governmentto  suspend an employee pending the decision of the  appeal,contending  that such power vested in the  State  Governmentposited	 that  the order of dismissal every  though  validlypassed	in  accordance with the conditions specified  in  s.58(1)  was not to become effective until such  decision	 wasreached,  because  only in such event the  State  Governmentwould  be  in  a position to pass  an  order  of  suspensionpending	 the  decision	of  the appeal.	  If  the  order  ofdismissal  passed  by  the Board was  to  come	into  effectimmediately  on such special resolution being passed,  therewould be no meaning in the State Government being  empoweredto  suspend the officer who had been already  dismissed	 andthe  provision	in that behalf would then be  nugatory.	  Itwas,  therefore, argued that such power vested in the  StateGovernment  necessarily	 involved the consequence  that	 theorder of dismissal could not be operative by its1154own force but would continue in abeyance until the  decisionof  the	 appeal, once an appeal was filed  by  the  employeeagainst the order within the period specified.On a plain reading of the provisions of s. 58(1) and (2), weare of opinion that this contention of the appellant is	 nottenable.   One	condition of the validity of  the  order  ofdismissal  made by the Board is that the special  resolutionin  that behalf should be supported by not less	 than  2/3rdmembers	 constituting  the Board.  Once	 that  condition  isfulfilled. there is nothing more to be done by the Board andthe only right which then accrues to the officer thus  dealtwith  by  the  Board is to appeal to  the  State  Governmentwithin	30 days of the communication of that order  to	him.He  may choose to exercise this right of appeal	 or  withoutadopting  that procedure he may straightaway  challenge	 thevalidity  of the resolution on any of the grounds  availableto him in law, e.g., the non-observance of the principles ofnatural	 justice  and  the like.  There is  nothing  in	 theprovisions  of s. 58(1) to prevent him from doing so and  ifwithout	 exercising this right of appeal which is  given  tohim  by	 the statute he filed a suit in the Civil  Court  toestablish  the ultra vires or the illegal character of	suchresolution  it	could  not be urged that  such	a  suit	 waspremature, he not having exhausted the remedies given to himunder  the statute.  The principle that the superior  courtsmay  not  in their discretion issue  the  prerogative  writsunless	the applicant has exhausted all his  remedies  underthe special Act does not apply to a suit.  There is  nothingin  s. 58(1) which expressly or impliedly bars his right  ofsuit.  The provisions contained in s. 58(2) above would alsonot  help him for the simple reason that the power which  isvested	in  the State Government of suspending	an  employeepending the decision of the appeal can hardly be said to  bea  condition of the order of the Board.	 In any event,	thatpower is given to the State Government for giving relief  tothe  employee who has thus appealed, against the  rigour  ofthe order of dismissal passed by the Board against him.	 Theemployee may have been dismissed by the1155Board, in which case on looking at the prima facie aspect ofthe  matter  the State Government may as well  come  to	 theconclusion that the operation of the order of dismissal	 maybe stayed and he be suspended instead, thus entitling him tosubsistence allowance during the pendency of the appeal.  Ifthe  appeal is eventually dismissed the order of  dismmissalby the Board will stand; if the appeal is allowed he will beentitled  to  continue	in  the employ	and  enjoy  all	 thebenefits  and privileges of such employment, but  lie  wouldnot  have  to starve during the period that the	 appeal	 waspending	 before the State Government.  The provisions of  s.58(2)  have to be read along with those of s. 58(1)  and  itcannot	be urged that the power of suspension vested in	 theState Government is to be exercised in any other case exceptthat of dismissal or removal of the  employee by the  Board.In  the case of any other punishment an order of  suspensionpassed	by the State Government pending the decision of	 theappeal	would  only  mean that during the  pendency  of	 theappeal	the State Government is empowered to visit on him  ahigher	punishment  than  what has been	 meted	out  to	 himalready	 by the Board.	Such an absurd position could  neverhave been thought of by the legislature and the only way  inwhich s. 58(1) can be read consistently with s. 58(2) is  toconstrue  this	power  of suspension  vested  in  the  StateGovernment  to	apply  only to those cases  where  a  higherpunishment  than suspension has been meted out by  Board  tothe  employee.	Section 58(2) merely prescribes	 the  powerswhich the State Government may exercise in the matter of theappeal	which  has been filed by the  employee	against	 theorder  of the Board.  The mere filing of an appeal  has	 notthe effect of holding the order of the Board in abeyance  orpostponing  the	 effect thereof until the  decision  of	 theappeal.	 Such a construction would on the other hand involvethat  even  though a special resolution was  passed  by	 theBoard dismissing or removing the employee he would  continueto function as such and draw his salary pending the decisionof  his	 appeal,  once	he filed an  appeal  to	 the,  StateGovernment as prescribed.  We do not see any words in1471156s.   58(1)  and (2 which would suspend the operation of	 theorder passed by the Board or render it ineffective by reasonof the filing or the pendency of the appeal.As a matter of fact the legislature in s. 61(3) of the	verysame  Act  while dealing with the right of appeal  from	 theorder-, of the executive officer has expressly provided	 forsuch a contingency and enacted that when an appeal was filedwithin the specified period the order would remain suspendeduntil	the  appeal  was  decided.   A	comparison  of	 theprovisions  of	s.  58(1) and s. 61(3) of the  Act  is	thussufficient) to show that no such consequence was intended bythe legislature when it enacted s. 58(1) of the Act.A  similar provision enacted in the proviso to s. 71 of	 theU.  P.	District Boards Act (U.	 P. X of 1922) may  also  bereferred to in this context.  While dealing with the  powersof dismissal or punishment of a Secretary or  Superintendentof education by the Board the legislature enacted a  provisothereto	  that	the  Secretary	or  the	 Superintendent	  ofeducation of a Board, as the case may be, shall have a rightof  appeal to the State Government against  such  resolutionwithin	one month from the date of the communication of	 theresolution  to him, and that the resolution shall  not	takeeffect	until the period of one month has expired  or  untilthe  State  Government	has  passed  orders  on	 any  appealpreferred  by him.  The absence of any such provision in  s.58 of the Act also goes to show that no such consequence wasintended by the legislature.The enactment of s. 58(1) in the manner in which it has beendone  giving to the employee only a right of appeal  to	 theState Government within 30 days of the communication to	 himof the order of the Board without anything more is enough toshow  that neither was the suspension of the order  nor	 thepostponement of the effect thereof as a result of the filingof an appeal ever in the contemplation of the legislature.It may be noted in passing that the appellant relied upon  adecision  of  the  Allahabad  High  Court  in  Dist.  Board,Shahjahanpur  v.  Kailashi  Nath (1), which  turned  on	 theconstruction of s. 71 of the U.P. District(1) A I.R. 1948 All. 199.1157Boards Act set out above in support of his contention.	 Theprovisions of that section, however, are quite distinct fromthose  of  s. 58(1) of the Act before us and this  case	 wasrightly	 distinguished	by the High Court  in  the  judgmentappealed  against inasmuch as by the express terms of s.  71under  consideration  there, the dismissal was not  to	takeeffect	until the period of one month had expired  or  untilthe  State  Government	had  passed  orders  on	 any  appealpreferred  by  the employee.  It is, therefore,	 clear	thateven though the order passed by the Board was subject to theright  of  appeal  given  to  the  employee  in	 the  manneraforesaid, the operation of the order was not suspended	 norwas its effect in any manner postponed till a later date  bythe  mere filing of the appeal and it became effective	fromthe  date  when it was communicated to	the  employee.	 Thecause of action, if any, accrued to the employee on the dateof such comunication and the period of limitation  commencedto run from that date.If this is the true position on a plain construction of	 theprovisions of s. 58(1) and (2) of the Act what is the  otherprinciple  which the appellant can call to his aid in  orderto  support his contention ? He tried to equate the  specialresolution  passed  by the Board with a decree passed  by  atrial  court  and the decision of the appeal  by  the  StateGovernment  with a decree passed by an appellate  court	 andurged that in the same manner as a decree of the trial courtbecame	merged in the decree passed by the  appellate  courtand  no decree of the trial court thereafter  survived,	 thedecision of the appeal by the State Government replaced	 thespecial resolution passed by the Board and such decision  ifadverse to him gave him a cause of action and the period  oflimitation  commenced to run against him only from the	dateof such decree.	 The argument was that even though the causeof action in respect of such wrongful dismissal arose on thedate  when the order of the Board was communicated  to	him,once  an appeal was filed by him against that  order  withinthe period prescribed that cause of action was suspended andbecame merged in the cause of action which1158would  accrue  to him on the decision of his appeal  by	 theState Government.  The special resolution of the Board wouldthen  merge  into the decision of the  State  Government  onappeal	and the only thing which then survived would be	 thedecision of the State Government on which either there wouldbe  a resuscitation or revival of the cause of action  whichhad accrued to him on the communication of the order of	 theBoard or the accrual of a fresh cause of action which  couldbe  ventilated	by  him	 within	 the  period  of  limitationcommencing therefrom.The initial difficulty in the way of the appellant, however,is that departmental enquiries even though they culminate indecisions  on  appeals or revision cannot  be  equated	withproceedings  before  the  regular courts  of  law.   As	 wasobserved by this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh v. MohammadNooh (1):".........  an order of dismissal passed on  a	departmentalenquiry by an officer in the department and an order- passedby another officer next higher in rank dismissing an  appealtherefrom and an order rejecting an application for revisionby  the head of the department (--an hardly be equated	withany  propriety with decrees made in a civil suit  under	 theCode  of Civil Procedure by the court of first instance	 andthe  decree  dismissing the appeal therefrom  by  an  appealcourt  and the order- dismissing the revision petition by  ayet  higher  court.............	 because  the	departmentaltribunals of the first instance or on appeal or revision arenot regular courts manned by persons trained in law althoughthey may have the trappings of the courts of law.The  analogy  of the decisions of the courts  of  law  wouldtherefore be hardly available to the appellant.Our attention was drawn in this connection to cases  arisingtinder s. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure which have heldthat  the period of limitation is to be calculated from	 thedate of the original decree which gave rise to the right  ofrestitution  and  not from the date of the decision  of	 thelast appeal which was filed(1) [1958] S.C.R. 595.1159against	  it.	 Reliance  was	placed	on   the   followingobservations  of  B.  K. Mukherjea J. (as he  then  was)  inBhabarajan Das v. Nibaran Chandra (1):" The question therefore that really falls for determinationis  as to whether the time for such an application ought  tobe  calculated	from the date of the decision  of  the	lastappeal, or from the decree which for the first time gave theappellant a right to apply for restitution.  It is  concededby  the	 learned  Advocate for the appellant  that  lie	 hadundoubtedly  the right to pray for restitution at  the	timewhen the judgment was passed by the Munsif.  His  contentionis  that it was not necessary for him to apply at the  firstopportunity  as	 there	was an	appeal	taken  against	thatdecision  of  the trial judge and lie could  wait  till	 thejudgment  of the Appellate Court was pronounced.  After	 theAppellate  Court had passed its decision the decree  of	 thetrial court would no longer be in existence and lie would beentitled  to  base  his rights to  get	restitution  on	 theAppellate  Court's decree.  I find myself unable  to  acceptthis  contention  as  tenable.	If the right  to  apply	 forrestitution  was available to the appellant as soon  as	 thefirst court passed its judgment, time would certainly  beginto run from that date under Art. 181 and the mere fact	thatthe judgment was challenged by way of an appeal which  mighteventually set it aside, does not, in lily opinion,  operateto  suspend the running of  time.  Nor would  the  appellateCourts decree into which the decree of the trial Court wouldundoubtedly merge give the party a fresh starting point	 forlimitation.The analogy. of the decree of the trial court merging into adecree	of the appeal court clearly does not apply to  thesecases.	 The  observations of Rankin C.T. in Hari  Mohan  v.Parameshwar  Shau (1) are also in point. the  learned  ChiefJustice at"  But	the  application  to be made  under  s.	 144  is  anapplication  which  must be made to the Court of  the  firstinstance whether the decree varied or reversed was passed bythat Court or a higher Court.(1) A.I.R. 1939 Cal. 349, 35..(2) (1928) I.L.R 56 Cal. 61 78.1160That  Court  has  to  determine	 whether  the  applicant  isentitled to any and what benefits, by way of restitution  orotherwise,  by reason of the decree of the  appellate  courtvarying	 or  reversing	a  previous  decree.   We  have	  todetermine  this case under Art. 181, of the Limitation	Act,which directs us, in general language, to find out the	dateon which the applicant's right accrued.	 In the ordinary andnatural	  meaning   of	the  words,  their   right   accruedimmediately the -District Judge reversed the decision of thetrial  court,  and  reduced the amount	of  the	 plaintiff'sclaim.	Unless, therefore, we are required by reason of	 thenature of the matter to ignore the effect of that  decision,because	 it  was confirmed on appeal, it seems to me  to  bewrong  to  do so.  To refuse so to do does not	involve	 theproposition  that  two	decrees for the same  thing  may  beexecuted  simultaneously.  Nor does it involve, so far as  Ican see, the affirmance of any other proposition that can beregarded as inconvenient or absurd.Further, when even if the analogy applies, where the  decreeof  the	 appeal court only affirms the decree of  the  trialcourt,	this Court has held in the State Of U. P.  v.  Mohd.Noolt  (1),  that  the original decree of  the	trial  courtremains operative.  This Court has said at p. 611 :-"  In  the next place, while it is true that a decree  of  acourt  of first instance may be said to merge in the  decreepassed	on appeal therefrom or even in the order  passed  inrevision, it does so only for certain purposes, namely,	 forthe  purposes  of  computing the period	 of  Limitation	 forexecution of the decree as in Batuk, Nath v. Munni Dei	(2),or for computing the period of limitation for an applicationfor  final decree in a mortgage suit as in Jowad Hussain  v.Gendait	 Singh (3).  But as pointed by Sir Lawrence  Jenkinsin  delivering the judgment of the Privy Council in  JuscurnBoid  v. Pirthichand Lal (4), whatever be the  theory  underother systems of law, under the Indian law and procedure  anoriginal decree is not suspended(1) [1958] S.C.R. 595.(2)  41 I.A. 104.(3) 53 1. A. 197.(4)  46 I.A. 52.1161by  the	 presentation  of an appeal  nor  is  its  operationinterrupted  where  the decree on appeal is  merely  one  ofdismissal.   There is nothing in the Indian law	 to  warrantthe  suggestion	 that the decree or order of  the  court  ortribunal  of  the first instance becomes final only  on	 thetermination of all proceedings by way of appeal or revision.The  filing of the appeal or revision may put the decree  ororder  in jeopardy but until it is reversed or	modified  itremains effective."The original decree being thus operative what we are  reallyconcerned  with	 is  the  commencement	of  the	 period	  oflimitation as prescribed in the relevant statuite and if thestatute	 prescribes that it commences from the (late of	 theaccrual	 of the cause of action there is no  getting  behindthese  words in spite of the apparent iniquity	of  applyingthe same.  As was pointed out by Seshagiri Ayyar J. in MathuKorakkai Chetty v. Madar Ammal (1):"    Therefore in my opinion, the true	rule  deducible fromthese  various decisions of the Judicial Committee is  this:that   subject	to  the	 exemptions,  exclusion,   mode	  ofcomputationalid.  the  excusing of delay,  etc.,  which	 areprovided  in the Limitation Act, the language of  the  thirdcolumn of the first schedule should be ,go interpreted as tocarry  out the true intention of the legislature that is  tosay,  by  dating the cause of action from a  date  when	 theremedy is available to the party."The  cause  of	action in the present case  accrued  to	 theappellant  the	moment	the resolution of  the	--Board	 wascommunicated   to  him	and  that  was	the  date   of	 thecommencement of the limitation.	 The remedy, if any, by	 wayof  filing  a  suit  against the Board	in  respect  of	 hiswrongful  dismissal was available to him from that date	 andit  was open to him to pursue that remedy within the  periodof limitation prescribed under s. 326 of the Act.The  result  is	 no doubt  unfortunate	for  the  appellant,because the trial court found in his favour in regard to hisplea of wrongful dismissal.  If he had only brought the suitwithin the period prescribed by s. 326 of the(I)  (1919) I.L.R. 43 Mad. 185, 213.1162Act, he might possibly have got some relief from the  Court.He  however  chose to wait till the decision  of  the  StateGovernment  on his appeal and overstepped the limit of	timeto  his own detriment.	We are unable to come to  any  otherconclusion  than the one reached above and the appeal  must,therefore,   stand   dismissed;	  but	in   the    peculiarcircumstances of the case, we make no order " to costs.The appellant was given leave to proceed as a pauper and  heprosecuted  this  appeal  in form a pauperis .	s.  lie	 hasfailed	in the appeal and we do order that he shall pay	 thecourt-fee  which would have been paid by him if he  had	 notbeen  permitted to appeal as a pauper.	The Registrar  shallsend  to the AttorneyGeneral for India a memorandum  of	 thecourt-fees payable by him as required by Or.  XIV, r. 12, ofthe Supreme Court Rules.Appeal dismissed.