PETITIONER:RAZIA BEGUM	Vs.RESPONDENT:SAHEBZADI ANWAR BEGUM & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/05/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1958 AIR  886		  1959 SCR 1111ACT:       Civil  Procedure-Addition of parties-Declaratory	 suit-Claim       of status as married wife Admission by husband-Right of wife       and  son denying plaintiff's claim, to be added as  Parties-       Mohammedan  law-Code of Civil Procedure (Act V of 1908),	 O.       I, r 10(2)-Specific Relief Act (1 of 1877), ss. 42, 43.HEADNOTE:The   appellant	  instituted  a	 suit  against	 the   thirdrespondent,  inter alia, for a declaration that she was	 hislawfully married wife, alleging that though the fact of	 hermarriage  was  known to all who knew him, he was  trying  tosuppress  the  facts in such a way that the members  of	 hisfamily should conclude that she was not his Nikah wife, thathe  refused to openly acknowledge her as his legally  weddedwife  and that this conduct on his part had cast a cloud  onher status as such wife and was affecting the rights of	 theissue  of  the	marriage, her three  daughters.	  The  thirdrespondent filed his written statement admitting the  claim,but on the same date respondents i and 2 made an applicationunder  0.  i, r. 10(2), of the Code of Civil  Procedure	 forbeing  impleaded  in the suit as defendants on	the  groundsthat  they were respectively the wife and son of  the  thirdrespondent,  that  they	 were  interested  in  denying	 theappellant's status as wife and the status of her children isthe  legitimate children of the third respondent,  that	 thesuit was the result of a collusion between the appellant andthe third respondent and that if the appellant was  declaredto  be lawfully wedded to the third respondent,	 the  rightsand  interests of respondents i and 2 in the estate  of	 thethird  respondent  would be affected.  The  application	 wascontested  by both the appellant and the  third	 respondent.The  trial court allowed the application and the  order	 wasconfirmed by the High Court in its revisional  jurisdiction.The  question  was whether the lower courts did	 not  exceedtheir powers in directing the addition of respondents i	 and2 as parties-defendants in the action :Held  (per Sinha and Kapur jj.	Imam J., disscenting),	thatin view of the averments in the plaint which showed that notonly  the  third  respondent but the other  members  of	 hisfamily,	 including respondents i and 2, were  interested  indenying	 the  appellant's status as a legally  wedded  wife,respondents i and 2 were proper parties to the suit.The  question of addition of parties under O. I, r.  10,  ofthe Code of Civil Procedure is generally not one of  initialJurisdiction of the court, but of a judicial discretion ; ina  suit	 for  a declaration as regards	status	or  a  legalcharacter under S. 42 Of1112the  Specific  Relief  Act, the rule that in  order  that  aperson	may  be added as a party he must have a	 present  ordirect	interest in the subject-matter of the suit,  is	 notwholly applicable, and the rule may be relaxed in a suitablecase  where the court is of the opinion that by adding	thatparty  it  would  be in a better  position  effectually	 andcompletely  to	adjudicate upon the  controversy.   In	suchsuits the court is not bound to grant the declaration prayedfor,  on a mere admission of the claim by the defendant,  ifthe court has reasons to insist upon clear proof, apart fromthe admission.A declaratory judgment in respect of a disputed status	willbe  binding  not only upon the parties actually	 before	 thecourt	but   also  upon  persons  claiming   through	themrespectively,  within the meaning of s. 43 Of  the  SpecificRelief	Act.  The word " respectively " in the	section	 hasbeen used with a view to showing that the parties arrayed oneither	side, are really claiming adversely to one  another,so far as the declaration is concerned.Per Imam J.-The facts of the present case do not justify theaddition  of  respondents i and 2 as  defendants  under	 theprovisions  of	0.  i,	r.  1O(2),  of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure, because..:-(1)There  is  nothing  in the pleadings	 to  suggest  thatrespondents 1and 2 were denying the appellant's status	aswife  of  the third respondent, and the court ought  not  tocompel the plaintiff to add parties to the suit where on theface  of  the  pleadings plaintiff has no  cause  of  actionagainst them.(2)Under the Mohammedan law a man is entitled to have fourwives  at  one and the same time and, consequently,  as	 thethird respondent has admitted that the appellant was marriedto him, respondents i and 2 have no locus standi to make anyrepresentation in the suit that there was collusion  betweenthe appellant and the third respondent.(3)During the lifetime of the third respondent neither theappellant nor her children on the one hand nor respondents iand 2 on the other have any rights in his estate, under	 theMohammedan law.(4)Assuming  that  a  declaration in  the  suit	 would	bebinding	 upon respondents i and 2, which is doubtful  havingregard	to  the terms of S. 43 of the Specific	Relief	Act,that would be no justification for their being impleaded  inthe  suit where the issue is not one of inheritance but	 oneof marriage between the appellant and the third respondent.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 695 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember 17, 1957, of the Andhra1113Pradesh	 High Court in Civil Revision Petition No.  1112  of1957  arising  out of the order dated July 6, 1957,  of	 theCourt  of  the Second Additional Judge,	 City  Civil  Court,Hyderabad  (Decan), made on the application under 0.  1,  r.10, (C.	 P. C. in Original Suit No. 43/1 of 1957.M.C.   Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for	 India,	  C.   K.Daphtary,   Solicitor-General  of  India,  H.	N.   Sanyal,Additional  Solicitor-General  of India, N.  C.	 Chatterjee,Syed  Mohasim,	Akbar  Ali  Mosavi, H.	J.  Umrigar,  0.  N.Srivastava,  J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley, Rameshwar	Nathand P. L. Vohra, for the appellant.Purshottam Tricumdas, Anwarull Pusha and G.  Gopalakrishnan,for respondent No. 1.Sir  Sultan Ahmed, A. Ramaswami Iyengr C.  Chakravarthy,  S.Ranganathan and G. Gopalakrishan, for respondent No. 2.G.S.  Pathak,  A.  V.  Viswanatha  sastri,  Mohd.   YunusSaleem, Ghulam Ahmed Khan, Choudhary Akhtar Hussain, ShaukatHussain and Sardar Bahadur, for respondent No. 3.1958.  May 23.	The judgment of B. P. Sinha and J. L.  KapurJJ.  was  delivered by Sinha J. Jafer Imam  J.	delivered  aseparate judgment.SINHA  J.-This appeal by special leave is  directed  againstthe  concurring	 judgments and orders of the  courts  below,allowing the intervention of respondents I and 2 and  addingthem  as  defendants 2 and 3 in the suit instituted  by	 theappellant against her alleged husband, now respondent 3, whowas  the  sole defendant in the suit as	 originally  framed.The main question in controversy in this appeal is the	trueconstruction  of sub-r. (2) of r. 10 of 0. 1 of the Code  ofCivil  Procedure, and its application to the facts  of	thiscase which are given below:-On  April 12, 1957, the plaintiff-appellant in	this  Court-instituted the suit out of which this appeal arises  againstthe  third respondent who is the second son of	His  ExaltedHighness the Nizam of Hyderabad, and who will,	hereinafter,be referred to as the Prince.1114In  the plaint she alleged that she is the lawfully  marriedwife  of  the Prince, the marriage ceremony  (Nikah)  havingbeen  solemnized in accordance with the Shia Law by  a	ShiaMujtahid  on October 19, 1948.	The plaintiff  also  averredthat the issue of the marriage were three daughters aged  8,7  and 5 years; that the fact of the marriage was  known  toall  persons  acquainted with the Prince; that there  was  aprenuptial  agreement, whereby the Prince agreed to pay	 Rs.2,000  per month to the plaintiff as  Kharch-e-pandan;	thatthe Prince stopped the payment of the allowance aforesaid ofRs.  2,000  per	 month, since  January,	 1953,	without	 anyreasons	 and  in contravention of the  said  agreement.	  Onthese	allegations,  she  asked  for  the   following	 twodeclarations:-(1)That	 the plaintiff be declared to be the  legally-weddedwife (Mankuha) of the defendant,(2)That	 a  decree be passed in favour of  this	 plaintiffagainst	 the  defendant	 declaring her	to  be	entitled  toreceive	 from  the defendant 1. G. Its. 2,000 per  month  asKharch-e-pandan."It may be noted that she did not make any claim for  arrearsof  the	 allowance aforesaid since the date  the  Prince  isalleged to have stopped payment of the same.  Only ten	dayslater,	on  April  22, 1957, the Prince	 filed	his  writtenstatement,  admitting the entire claim of the plaintiff	 forthe  two  declarations	aforesaid.  On that  very  date,  anapplication  under  0.	1,  r. 10,  of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure, on behalf of (1) Saliebzadi Anwar Begum, and	 (2)Prince Shahainat Ali Khan, minor, under the Guardianship  ofhis  mother,  the  said	 Sahebzadi,  was  made.	  They	 arerespondents  I	and  2	respectively  in  this	Court.	 TheSahebzadi,  respondent	1, claimed to be the  "	 lawful	 andlegally	 wedded wife" of the Prince, and respondent  2,	 theson  of	 the  Prince  by the  first  respondent.   In  theirpetition they stated inter alia: " The plaintiff herself hasstated	in  the	 plaint	 that the  defendant  is  trying  tosuppress  the  facts of his marriage with the  plaintiff  sothat  the  members of his family should	 conclude  that	 theplaintiff  is  not  his Nikah wife,  and  the  defendant  isinterested   in	 denying  the  rights  and  status  of	 theplaintiff.1115The petitioners on being joined as parties to the suit	willbe  equally  interested	 in  denying  the  marriage  of	 theplaintiff  and	her rights and	status..........  The  peti-tioners	 have  reasons to believe that the above suit  is  aresult of collusion.  The object and motive of the plaintiffin  instituting	 the above suit is to adversely	 affect	 therelationship  of the petitioners and the defendant and	alsoto  deprive the rights and interests of the  petitioners  inthe  defendant's  estate." On June 15, 1957,  the  plaintiffmade  an answer to the petition for intervention,  filed  byrespondents I and 2 aforesaid.	She denied the right of	 theinterveners to be impleaded in that suit, and asserted	thatthe  "	possibility of the rights of the  petitioners  beinginfringed   are	 very  remote,	contingent  upon  their	  orplaintiff  surviving  the defendant or	other  circumstanceswhich may or may not arise." She also founded her  objectionon  the ground that, having regard to the admission  of	 thedefendant  in his written statement, " there is	 no  seriouscontroversy  in the suit." She also added a number of  legalobjections  which need not be specifically noticed  as	theyhave  not been pressed in this Court.  She further  assertedthat the petitioners (meaning thereby, respondents I and  2)are  neither necessary nor proper parties to the suit.	 Sheanticipated  the ground most hotly contested in this  Court,by  asserting that the " judgment of this Hon'ble  Court  inthis  suit will not be conclusive as against petitioners  asthey allege collusion and they will not be prejudiced by notbeing  made parties." She ends her statement by	 making	 thefollowing significant allegation:-"  The	alleged	 collusion  and	 motive	 attributed  to	 theplaintiff  for	instituting this suit are  denied.   On	 theother  hand,  the application to be added as  defendants  ismala  fide and malicious and is evidently inspired  by	somestrong	force  behind  them  interested	 in  harassing	 theplaintiff  and exposing her to the risk of a  vexatious	 andprotracted litigation."The  Prince,  in  his  own answer  to  the  application	 forintervention, stated that he admitted that the first1421116respondent is his wife and that the second respondent is hisson,  and repeated his admission by saying that lie  marriedthe plaintiff in October, 1948, and the first respondent  inDecember  1952.	 He added further that when he	married	 thefirst  respondent,  he had already three  daughters  by	 theplaintiff,  which fact was known to the first respondent  atthe  time  of  her  marriage with  him.	  He  supported	 theplaintiff in her objection to the intervention by  assertingthat the rights of respondents 1 and 2 will not be  affectedin any way, and by insisting upon his Muslim right of havingfour  wives living at the same time.  He also supported	 theplaintiff in her denial of the allegation of collusion and "that   the  suit  is  intended	to  adversely	affect	 therelationship of the petitioners and the defendant respondentand  to deprive the rights and interests of the	 petitionersin  the defendant-respondent's estate.	" He, in  his  turn,added the following equally significant penultmate para:-" That the petitioners' application has been filed in  orderto  prolong  the  litigation  and  that	 the  defen.   dant-responaent's  father  His  Exalted  -Highness  the   -Nizam,appears to be more interested than petitioner No. 1 herself,in creating unnecessary complications in the suit.  "On these allegations and counter allegations, after  hearingthe  parties,  the trial court, by its	judgment  and  orderdated	July   6,   1957,  allowed   the   application	 forintervention,  and directed respondents 1 and 2 to be  addedas   defendants.   The	court,	after  discussing  all	 thecontentions  raised on behalf of the parties, observed	thatthere were indications in the record of a possible collusionbetween	 the  plaintiff and the defendant; that	 the  reliefclaimed	 under	s.  42 of the  Specific	 Relief	 Act,  beingdiscretionary,	could not be granted as of right ; that	 thepresence  of  the  interveners	would  help  the  court	  inunravelling the mysteries of the litigation, and that  therewas  force  in the contention put forward on behalf  of	 theinterveners that under s. 43 of the Specific Relief Act, anydeclaration given in favour of the plaintiff will be bindingupon   the  interveners.   It  also  held  that	  in   ordereffectually and completely to1117adjudicate  upon  and settle the  present  controversy,	 thepresence of the interveners was necessary.The  plaintiff moved the High Court of Judicature of  AndhraPradesh,  at  Hyderabad, under s. 115 of the Code  of  CivilProcedure,  to	revise the aforesaid order  of	the  learnedtrial judge.  The High Court, in a wellconsidered  judgment,after  discussing  the	points raised for  and	against	 theaddition  of  the  parties,  and  noticing  almost  all	 theauthorities quoted before us, refused to interfere with	 thediscretion  exercised by the trial court, and dismissed	 therevisional application.	 It came to the conclusion that	 thefirst  respondent, the admitted wife of the  defendant,	 andthe  second  respondent,  the  admitted	 son  by  her,	 areinterested  in denying the status claimed by the  plaintiff,and  "	have  some  rights against the	estate	of  the	 3rdrespondent.   The  learned Judge of the High  Court  furtherobserved When so much sanctity is attached to the status  ofmarriage, it would indeed be strange that persons who are sointimately  related to the 3rd respondent as wife  and	son,should be denied the opportunity of contesting the status ofthe  petitioner as his lawfully married wife............  Itcannot	be that the petitioner is seeking any  empty  reliefcarrying  with it the stamp of futility and it is  difficultto  assume  that  she  is fighting  a  vain  or	 purposelesslitigation.   If what she is seeking is a relief which	willcarry  with  it	 certain legal incidents,  are	not  personsinterested  in	denying	 her status proper  parties  to	 thelitigation  ? " The Court also observed that it was  with  aview  to avoiding multiplicity of suits that r. 10(2) of  0.1, had made provision foradding parties.  The Court  noticedthe argument under s. 43 of the Specific Relief Act, but didnot express any final opinion, because, in its view, it	 hadalready	 reached the " conclusion that the proposed  partiesare  persons  whose presence before the court  is  necessarywithin the meaning of 0. 1, r. 10 (2), so as to ensure	thatthe dispute should be finally determined once for all in thepresence of all the parties interested."Against	 the  judgment of the High Court,  refusing  to	 setaside the order passed by the learned trial judge,1118the plaintiff moved this Court and obtained special leave toappeal.In the forefront of his arguments in support of the  appeal,the learned Attorney-General submitted that the court had nojurisdiction to add the first two respondents as  defendantsin  the	 suit.	 He relied upon the words  of  the  relevantportion of sub-rule (2) of r. 10 of O. I of the Code,  whichare as follows:"  (2)............... and that the name of any	 person	 whoought	to  have  been	joined,	 whether  as  plaintiff	  ordefendant,  or	whose  presence	 before	 the  Court  may  benecessary  in  order  to-enable the  Court  effectually	 andcompletely  to adjudicate upon and settle all the  questionsinvolved in the suit, be added.He rightly pointed out, and there was no controversy betweenthe parties before us, that the added defendants do not comewithin	the  purview of the words " who ought to  have	beenjoined	",  which  apparently have  reference  to  necessaryparties	 in  the sense that the suit cannot  be	 effectivelydisposed  of  without  their presence on  the  record.	 Thelearned	 Attorney-General strenuously argued that it  cannotbe  asserted  in this case that the presence  of  the  addeddefendantsrespondents 1 and 2-before the court was necessaryin  order to enable the court effectually and completely  toadjudicate upon and settle all the questions involved in thesuit.	He founded this argument on the legal position	thatthe  wife and the son of the Princerespondents I and  2-haveno  present  interest in his estate.   Their  expectancy  ofsuccession to the estate of the Prince does not clothe	themwith  any  right vested or contingent to intervene  in	thisaction.	 In this connection, he pointed out that r. 10 of 0.1  of  the  Code of Civil Procedure,  which  corresponds  toportions of 0. 16, r. 11, of the Rules of the Supreme  Courtin   England,  has  been  the  subject-matter  of   judicialinterpretation in many cases.  Both, in this country and  inEngland,  there have been two currents of judicial  opinion,one  taking  what may be called the narrower view,  and	 theother, the wider view.	As illustrations of the former, thatis to say, the narrower1119view,  may  be cited the cases of Moser v. Marsden  (1)	 andMcCheane  v.  Gyles  (No. 2) (2).  In India,  this  view  isrepresented  by	 the  decision in the  case  of	 Sri  MahantPrayaga	 Doss  Jee Varyu v. The Board of  Commissioners	 forHindu  Religious Endowments, Madras (3).  On the other	sideof  the line, representing the wider view, may be cited	 thecase  of Dollfus Mieg Et Compagnie S. A. v. Bank of  England(4).   In India, the decisions of the Madras High Court,  inthe cases of Vydianadayyan v. Sitaramayyan (5) and Secy.  ofState	v.   M.	 Murugesa  Mudaliar  (6),  were	  cited	  asillustrations.	 But  it  was contended	 on  behalf  of	 theappellants  that whether the narrower or the wider  view  ofthe  interpretation  of sub-r. (2) of r. 10 of 0. I  of	 theCode of Civil Procedure is taken, the result, so far as	 thepresent controversy is concerned, would be the same.  In theleading case of Moser v. Marsden (1), Lindley L. J. has heldthat  a party who is not directly interested in	 the  issuesbetween	 the  plaintiff	 and  the  defendant,  but  is	onlyindirectly  or commercially affected, cannot be added  as  adefendant  because the court has no jurisdiction, under	 therelevant rule, to bring him on the record even as a " properparty	".  That  was  a  suit	to  restrain   the   allegedinfringement  of  the plaintiff"s patent by  the  defendant,Marsden.   The Court held, reversing the order of the  trialjudge,	that  the  party sought to be added  had  no  directinterest  in. the subject-matter of the litigation, and	 allthat could have been said on behalf of the party interveningwas that the judgment against the defendant would affect hisinterest commercially.	The Court distinguished the previousdecisions  in Vavasseur v. Krupp(7) and Apollinaris  Companyv.  Wilson  (8),  on  the ground that  in  those  cases	 thelitigation  would have affected the property of the  personsnot before the court.  This leading case of Moser v. Marsden(1)  is	 clearly an authority for the proposition  that	 thecourt  has jurisdiction to add as a party defendant  only  aperson(1) [1892] 1 Ch. 487.(2)  [1902] 1 Ch. 911.(3) (1926) I. L. R. 50 Mad. 34.(4)  [195O] 2 All E. R. 605.(5) (1881) I. L. R. 5 Mad. 5.2.(6)  A. I. R. 1929 Mad. 443.(7) (1878) 9 Ch.  D. 351 .(8)  (1886) 31 Ch.  D. 632.1120who  is	 directly interested in the  subject-matter  of	 thelitigation  and not a person who will be only indirectly  orcommercially affected.	Kay L. J. who agreed with Lindley L.J.  in	that case, observed that the relevant  rule  of	 theSupreme	 Court, on its proper construction,  authorized	 thecourt  to  add only such persons as would be  bound  by	 thejudgment  to be given in the action, but did  not  authorizethe  court to add any persons who would not be so bound	 andwhose interest may only indirectly be affected in a  commer-cial sense.  To the same effect is the decision in Re I.  G.Farbeninadusrie A. G. Agreement (1).  The Court held that inorder that a party may be added as a defendant in the  suit,he should have a legal interest in the subject-matter of thelitigation-legal  interest  not	 as  distinguished  from  anequitable   interest,	but  an	 interest  which   the	 lawrecognizes.   Lord Greene M. -R. giving the judgment of	 theCourt, also observed that the court had. no jurisdiction  toadd a person as a party to the litigation if he had no legalinterest in the issue involved in the case.  In the case  ofVydianadayyan  v. Sitaramayyan (2), in which the wider	viewof the interpretation of the relevant rule was taken, TurnerC.  J. delivering the judgment of the Court,  observed	thatthe  wider interpretation which enabled the court  to  avoidconflicting  decisions on the same question and which  wouldfinally	 and  effectually  put	an  end	 to  the  litigationrespecting it, should be adopted.  But in that case also theparty  added  as defendant was interested  in  the  subject-matter of the litigation, though there was no impediment  tothe  court  determining	 the  issues  between  the   partiesoriginally  before  the	 court.	 The  learned  Judge,  on  adiscussion  of the English and Indian cases on the  subject,came  to the conclusion that a material question  common  toall  the parties to the suit and to third parties should  betried once for all.  He held that to secure this result	 thecourt bad a discretion to add parties-a discretion which hasto be judicially exercised, that is, that by adding the	 newparties	 the  court should not inflict	injustice  upon	 theparties already on the record, in the sense(1) [1943] 2 All E. R. 525.(2) (1881) I.L.R. 5 Mad. 52.1121that  they  would  be prejudiced in the fair  trial  of	 thequestions in controversy.The two Madras decisions in Sri Mahant Prayaga Doss Jee Varuv.   The   Board  of  Commissioners  for   Hindu   ReligiousEnclowmentg,  Madras (1) and Secy. of State v.	M.  MurugesaMudaliar  (2) appear to have taken conflicting views on	 thequestion whether Government could be added as a party to thelitigation  not	 because it was directly interested  in	 thesubjectmatter of the litigation, but because the law enactedby  the legislature of that State had been questioned.	thiscontroversy appears to have been raised in the Federal Courtin  the	 case of The United Provinces v. Mst.	Atiqa  Begum(3).  In that case the provincial legislature of the  UnitedProvinces, as it then was, had enacted the United  ProvincesRegularization	of Remissions Act (XIV of  1938)  precludingthe courts from entertaining any question as to the validityof  certain orders of remission of rents.  The	validity  ofthat  Act was questioned in a litigation between a  landlordand  his  tenants.  At the High Court stage  the  ProvincialGovernment  was	 added as a party to the litigation  at	 theinstance  of the Advocate-General, with a view	to  enablingthe Government to come up in appeal to the Federal Court  inorder  to obtain a more authoritative pronouncement  on	 thevales  of  the Act.  In the Federal Court the power  of	 theHigh  Court to add the Provincial Government as a party	 wasspecifically questioned.  Gwyer C. J. noticed the two Madrasdecisions  referred  to	 above but assumed  that  there	 wasjurisdiction  in the Court in a proper case to do  so,	and,therefore, did not express his considered opinion in view ofthe fact that his two colleagues, Sulaiman and VaradachariarJJ.  had agreed, though for different reasons, in  the	viewthat  the  High	 Court	had  jurisdiction  to  implead	 theGovernment  though it was only indirectly interested in	 thelitigation.  Sulaiman J. was inclined to take the view	thatthere  was  a  discretion  in the  High	 Court	to  add	 theGovernment as a party.	On the other hand, Varadachariar J.(1) (1926) I.L.R. 50 Mad. 34.  (2) A.I.R. 1929	Mad 443.(3) [1940] F.C.R. 110.1122was  inclined to take the view that the State did not  standon  the	 same  footing	as a private  third  party  for	 allpurposes.   He took the view that the State as the  guardianof  the	 public interest should not be called upon  to	showsome pecuniary or proprietary interest or interest in publicrevenue	 in the questions involved, to be added as a  party.He also observed that in a case where the State interventionwas  concerned,	 " it must be decided on  broad	 grounds  ofjustice	 and  convenience and not merely as turning  on	 theinterpretation	of a particular rule in the Civil  ProcedureCode."	Discussing the question whether it was a  matter  ofdiscretion or of Jurisdiction in the court to make an  orderadding	a  party,  the	learned	 Judge	made  the  followingobservations :-"  In  my  opinion,  there is no  case	here  of  defect  ofjurisdiction  in the sense in which it is said that  consentcannot	cure a defect of jurisdiction.	It is true  that  inMoser  v.  Marsden  (1), Lindley L.  J.	 observed  that	 thequestion was not one of " discretion but of jurisdiction  ".But  as the antithesis shows, the learned L.  J.  apparentlyhad  in	 mind  the difference between the  decision  of	 thequestion  of joinder on the interpretation of a rule of	 lawand a direction given by the lower court in the exercise  ofits  discretion,  because in the latter case  the  court  ofappeal	would generally be reluctant to interfere.   It	 mayeven be regarded as a case of excess of jurisdiction  withinthe meaning of s. 115 of the Civil Procedure Code, but	thatwill  not  make the order void in the sense that it  may  beignored or treated as if it had never been passed." It wouldthus  appear that the courts in India have not	treated	 thematter of addition of parties as raising any question of theinitial jurisdiction of the court.  It may sometimes involvea question of jurisdiction in the limited sense in which  itis used in s. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.It   is	 no  use  multiplying  references  bearing  on	 theconstruction  of the relevant rule of the Code	relating  toaddition of parties.  Each case has to be determined on	 itsown facts, and it has to be recognized that no decided caseshave been brought to our notice which(1) [1892] 1 Ch. 487.1123can  be	 said  to  be  on  all	fours  with  the  facts	 andcircumstances  of the present case.  There. ,cannot  be	 theleast  doubt  that it is firmly established as a  result  ofjudicial decisions that in order that a person may be  addedas a party to a suit he should have a direct interest in thesubject-matter of the litigation whether it raises questionsrelating to moveable or immoveable property.  In the instantcase,  we are not concerned with any controversy as  regardsproperty or estate.  Hence, all the cases cited at the	bar,laying down that a person who has no present interest in thesubjectmatter  cannot  be added, are cases which  were	con-cerned with property rights. In this case, we are  concernedprimarily  with	 a  declaration	 as  regards  status   whichdirectly comes under the provisions of s. 42 of the SpecificRelief	Act.   We  are concerned, in  this  case,  with	 thefollowing provisions of s. 42:-" 42.  Any person entitled to any legal character, or to anyright  as to any property, may institute a suit against	 anyperson	denying.  or interested to deny, his title  to	suchcharacter or right, and the Court may in its discretion maketherein	 a  declaration	 that he is so	entitled,  and,	 theplaintiff need not in such suit ask for any further relief."This  section recognizes the right in any person to  have  adeclaration  made in respect of his legal character  or	 anyright  to property.  To such a suit for a mere	declaration,any  person denying or interested to deny the  existence  ofany  legal character or the alleged right to  any  property,would  be a necessary party.  The plaintiff appellant  choseto  implead only her alleged husband, the Prince.  There  isno clear averment in the plaint that the defendant had	everdenied	the legal character in question, namely, the  statusof  the	 plaintiff  as	his  wife.   The  substance  of	 theplaintiff's  cause  of action is stated in para.  3  of	 theplaint.	  From	the  words used in the	said  para.  of	 theplaint, it is clear that the persons who are alleged to haveknown the existence of the relationship of husband and	wifebetween	 the parties would include the respondents 1 and  2,and that the Prince had been trying to suppress the fact of1431124the marriage with the plaintiff so as to lead the members ofhis family to conclude that the plaintiff is not his  wife,.The   gravamenofthechargeagaiiistthePrince  is	that  "	  herefuses	 to openly acknowledge the plaintiff as his  legallywedded	wife, ", and that this conduct has cast a cloud	 oilthe plaintiff's status as such wife.  Such a conduct on	 thepart  of  the  Prince, it is further alleged,  is  not	onlyinjurious  and detrimental to the rights of  the  plaintiff,but  is adversely affecting the rights of the issue  of	 themarriage,  meaning  thereby,  the  three  daughters  by	 theplaintiff.  It is thus clear, as was contended on behalf  ofrespondents  I and 2, that reading between the lines of	 theaverments  aforesaid,  it  is suggested that  not  only	 thedefendantrespondent 3-but the other inembers of his  family,including  respondents I and 2, were interested	 ill  deyingthe  plaintiff's  alleged status, and that  this  suit-,",asbeing instituted to clear the cloud cast not, only upon	 theplaintiffs  status  as a legally wedded wife, but  upon	 thestatus	of  the	 three	daughters  by  her.   It  is  clear,therefore, that if the plaintiff had been less	disingenuousand had impleaded the first and the second respondents also,as  defendants in the suit, the latter could not  have	beendischarged from the action on the ground that they had	beenunnecessarily impleaded and that no cause of action bad beendisclosed  against  them.  They would  certainly  have	beenproper parties to the suit.  This is a very important aspectof  the	 case  which has to be kept ill	 view  in  order  todetermine the question whether respondonts, 1 and 2 had beenrightly added as defendants on their own intervention.It is also clear on the words of the statute, quoted  above,that  the grant of a declaration such as is contemplated  bys. 42, is entirely in the discretion of the court.  At	thisstage  it  is convenient to deal with the  other  contentionraised	on behalf of the appellant namely, that in  view  ofthe  unequivocal  admission of the plaintiffs claim  by	 thePrince in his written statement and repeated as aforesaid inhis   counter  to  the	application  for   intervention	  byrespondents  I and 2, no serious controversy  now  survives.It is suggested1125that  the declarations sought in this case would be  grantedas  a matter of course.	 In this connection,  our  attentionwas called to the provisions of r. 6 of 0. 12 of the Code ofCivil  Procedure, which lays down that upon such  admissionsas have been made by the Prince in this case the court wouldgive judgment for the plaintiff.  These provisions have	 gotto  be	read  along  with r. 5 of 0. 8	of  the	 (,ode	withparticular  reference  to  the proviso	which  is  in  theseterms:-" Provided that the Court may in its discrettion require anyfact  so  admitted  to	be proved  otherwise  than  by	suchadmission."The proviso quoted above is identical with the proviso to s.58  of the Indian Evidence Act, which lays down	 that  factsadmitted  need not be proved.  Reading all these  provisionstogether,  it  is manifest that the court is  not  bound  togrant  the  declarations prayed for even  though  the  factsalleged	 in  the  plaint may have been	admitted.   In	thisconnection,  the following passage in Anderson's  "  Actionsfor Declaratory Judgments ", Vol. 1, p. 340, under art. 177,is relevant:-" A claim of legal or equitable rights and denial thereof onbehalf	of an adverse interest or party constitutes  a	ripecause  for  a  proceeding, seeking  declaratory	 relief.   Adeclaration  of	 rights is not proper  where  the  defendantseeks  to  uphold the plaintiff-, in such  an  action.	 Therequired element of adverse parties is absent.""  In  others  words the controversy  must  be	between	 theplaintiff and the respondent who asserts an interest adverseto the plaintiff.  In the absence of such a situation  thereis   no	 justiciable  controversy  and	the  case  must	  becharacterized as one asking for an advisory opinion, and  asbeing academic rather than justiciable...............""  i.e., there must be an actual controversy of	 justiciablecharacter between parties having adverse interest."Hence,	if the court, in all the circumstances of  a  parti-cular  case,  takes the view that it would insist  upon	 theburden of the issue being fully discharged, and if the,1126court,	in pursuance of the terms of s. 42 of  the  SpecificRelief	Act, decides, in a given case, to insist upon  clearproof of even admitted facts, the court could not be said tohave  exceeded	its  judicial powers.	That  the  plaintiffherself	 or  her  legal	 advisers  did	not  take  the	viewcontended for on her behalf, is shown by the fact that a fewdays  after  the  filing of the	 written  statement  of	 thePrince,	 on  April  27, Barkat Ali,  the  Mujtahid,  who  isalleged	 to  have solemnized the marriage, was	examined  incourt,	and he gave his statement on oath in support of	 theplaintiff's  claim.   He also proved  certain  documents  incorroboration of the plaintiff's case and his own  evidence.This  witness  was  not	 cross-examined	 on  behalf  of	 thedefendant.    It  was  stated  before  us,  on	 behalf	  ofrespondents  1 and 2, that there were pieces of	 documentaryevidence apart from certain alleged admissions made by or onbehalf	of the plaintiff, which seriously  militate  againstthe  plaintiff's  case	and the	 statement  of	the  witnessreferred  to  above.   We need not go  into  all  that	con-troversy, because we are not, at this stage, concerned	withthe  truth  or otherwise of the plaintiffs  case.   At	thisstage  we  are only concerned with the question	 whether  inadding respondents I and 2 as defendants in the action,	 thecourts	below have exceeded their powers.  It is  enough  topoint  out at this stage that the plaintiff did	 not  invitethe court to exercise its powers under r. 6 of 0. 12 of	 theCode  of Civil Procedure, and, therefore, we are not  calledupon  to  decide whether the trial court was  right  in	 notpronouncing judgment on mere admission.	 The court, when  itis  called upon to make a solemn declaration of	 the  plain-tiff's	 alleged  status  as  the  defendant's	wife,	has,naturally, to be vigilant and not to treat it as a matter ofcourse,	 as  it	 would do in a mere  money  claim  which  isadmitted by the defendant.  The adjudication of status,	 thedeclaration of which is claimed by the plaintiff, is a	moreserious	 matter,  because  by  its  intendment	and  in	 itsultimate  result  it affects not only the  persons  actuallybefore,the court in the suit as originally framed, but	alsothe  plaintiff's progeny who are not parties to the  action,and the respondents 1 and 2.1127If  the	 declaration of status claimed by the  plaintiff  isgranted	 by the court, naturally the three daughters by	 theplaintiff would get the status of legitimate children of thePrince.	  If  the  decision is the other  way,	they  becomebranded	 as illegitimate.  The suit clearly is not  only  inthe  interest of the plaintiff herself but of  her  childrenalso.	It  is	equally clear that not only  the  Prince  isdirectly  affected by the declaration sought, but his  wholefamily, including respondents I and 2 and their descendants,are  also  affected thereby. This, naturally leads us  to  adiscussion  of	the effect of s. 43 of the  Specific  ReliefAct,  which goes with and is an integral part of the  schemeof declaratory decrees which form the subject-matter of	 Ch.VI of the Act.	That section is in these terms:-" 43.  A declaration made under this Chapter is binding onlyoil  the parties to the suit, persons claiming through	themrespectively, and where any of the parties are trustees,  onthe  persons  for whom, if in existence at the date  of	 thedeclaration, such parties would be trustees."On  behalf of the appellant it was contended by the  learnedAttorney-General  that the declaration of status  sought  inthis suit by the plaintiff will be binding only upon her andthe Prince, and being a rule of' res judicata will bind onlythe  parties to the suit and their privies.  It was  furthercontended  that	 respondents I and 2 are in  no	 sense	suchprivies.  The argument proceeds thus: Section 43 lays down arule  of  res  judicata in a modified form, and	 it  was  soframed	as to make it clear beyond all doubt by the  use  ofthe word " only " that a declaration under s. 42 is  bindingon  the parties to the suit and on persons claiming  throughthem  respectively.   If any question arises in	 the  futureafter  the  inheritance to the estate of the,  Prince  opensout, it could not be said that the plaintiff and respondents1  and	2 were claiming through different  persons  under  aconflicting  title  which was the core of the  rule  of	 resjudicata.  In this connection, reliance was placed upon	 thedecision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council	 'inthe  case  of Syed' Ashgar Reza Khan v. Syed  Mahomed  MehdiHossein1128Khan  (1).  That case lays down that a decision in a  formersuit  that  the common ancestor of all the  parties  to	 thesubsequent suit was entitled to the whole of the profit of amarket in dispute in the two litigations, as against his co-sharers	 in the zamindari in which the market  was  situate,does  not  operate as res judicata in a	 subsequent  disputebetween	 those	who claim under him.   In  this	 connection,reliance was also placed upon a decision of the Madras	HighCourt	 in   the   case   of	Vythilinga    Muppanar	  v.Vijayathammal(2), to the same effect.  Mr. Pathak, appearingon  behalf of the .Prince, the third  respondent,  supportedthe  appellant by raising a further point that the  words  "claiming  through " mean the same thing as " claiming  underin  s.	11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, laying  down	 therule  of res judicata, and that those words are not  apt  torefer to a declaration. of a more personal status, and	thatthey mean the same thing as pi-ivy in estate ,is  understoodunder  the  common  law.  He called  our  attention  to	 thefollowing  passage in ' Bigelow on Estoppel', 6th  Edn.,  atpp. 158 and 159:-" In the law of estoppel one person becomes privy to another(1)  by succeeding to the position of that other as  regardsthe Subject of the estoppel, (2) by holding in subordinationto that other...................... But it should be noticedthat  the  ground of privity is property  and  not  personalrelations  To make a man a privy to an action he  must	haveacquired  an interest in the subject-matter of	the,  actioneither by inheritance, succession, or purchase from a  partysubsequently  to the action, or he must hold  property	sub-ordinately."He  also  drew our attention to similar	 observations  in  "Casperz on Estoppel".  On the other hand, Mr. Purshottam andSir Syed Sultan Ahmed, appearing on behalf of respondents  Iand 2, respectively, contended that " claiming through " and" claiming under " have not exactly the same significance inlaw,  and that the rule laid down in s. 43 of  the  SpecificRelief	Act does not stand on the same footing as a rule  ofres judicata contained in s. II of the Code of(1) (1903) L.R. 30 I.A. 71.(2) (1882) I.L. R. 6 ivlad. 43.1129Civil  Procedure, or estoppel by judgment, as  discussed  inthe works of Bigelow and (Casperz, relied upon on behalf  ofthe  other  side.  On behalf of respondents I and 2  it	 wasfurther	 contended that the suit was really intended not  tobind the Prince who has shown no hostility to the claim, butto  bind respondents 1 and 2. It was also contended that  ifthe  court were to grant the declaration that the  plaintiffis the lawfully wedded wife of the Prince, if a	 controversyarises	hereafter between the plaintiff and her children  onthe  one  side and respondents I and 2 on  the	other,	thisjudgment  will	not only be admissible in evidence  in	thatlitigation, but will be binding upon thereon the plaintiff',because she is privy to the judgment, and oil her  children,because they will be claiming the benefit of the declarationthrough	 her,  and on respondents I and 2 because  they	 areadmittedly  the	 wife  and son of the  Prince  and  will  bemanifestly claiming through him.In  this  connection,  it  has	to  be	remarked  that	 thediscretion  vested in a court to grant a merely	 declaratoryrelief as distinguished from a judgment which is capable  ofbeing  enforced	 by  execution,	 derives  its  utility	 andimportance  from  the objects it has in view,  namely  to  "prevent	 future	 litigation by removing existing  causes  ofcontroversy to quiet title" and "to perpetuate testimony  ",as also to avoid multiplicity of proceedings.  This practiceof granting declaratory reliefs, which originated in Englandin the Equity courts, has been very much extended in Americaby  statutory  provisions.   In	 India,	 the  law  has	beencodified in the Specific Relief Act, in Ch.  VI, and has, ina  sense,  extended the scope of the rule by  providing	 fordeclarations  not only in respect of claims to property	 butalso  in  respect of disputes as regards status.   From	 theterms  of s. 42 of the Act, it would appear that the  Indiancourts	have  not  been empowered to  grant  every  form  ofdeclaration which may be available in America.	In its	veryentire, a declaratory decree does not confer any new  right,but only clears Lip mists which may have gathered round	 thetitle to property or to status or a legal character.  When a1130court  makes a declaration in respect of a disputed  status,important  rights  flow from such  a  judicial	declaration.Hence, a declaration granted in respect of a legal characteror  status in favour of a person is meant to bind  not	onlypersons actually parties to the litigation, but also personsclaiming through them as laid down in s. 43 of the Act.	  Itis,  thus,  a rule of substantive law, and is  distinct	 andseparate  from	the  rule of res  judicata  or	estoppel  byjudgment.   The	 doctrine of res judicata, as  it  has	beenenunciated  in a number of rules laid down in s. 11  of	 theCode of Civil Procedure, covers a much wider field than	 therule  laid  down in s. 43 of the Specific Relief  Act.	 Forexample, the doctrine of res judicata lays particular stressupon the competence of the court.  On the other hand, s.  43emphasizes  the	 legal	position that it is  a	judgment  inpersonam  as  distinguished  from  a  judgment	in  rem.   Ajudgment may be res judicata in a subsequent litigation onlyif  the	 former court was competent to deal with  the  latercontroversy.   No such considerations find a place in s.  43of the Specific Relief Act.  Again, a previous judgment	 maybe  res judicata in a subsequent litigation between  partieseven though they may not have been eo nomine parties to	 theprevious  litigation  or even claiming through	-them.	 Forexample,  judgment in a representative suit, or	 a  judgmentobtained  by a presumptive reversioner will bind the  actualreversioner even though he may not have been a party to	 it,or  may	 not have been claiming through the parties  in	 theprevious litigation.When a declaratory judgment has been given, by virtue of  s.43,  it is binding not only on the persons actually  partiesto  the	 judgment  but their privies also,  using  the	term'privy' not in its restricted sense of privy in estate,	 butalso privy in blood.  Privity may arise (1) by operation  oflaw,  for example, privity of contract; (2) by	creation  ofsubordinate  interest in property, for example,	 privity  inestate	as between a landlord and a tenant, or	a  mortgagorand  a mortgagee; and (3) by blood, for example, privity  inblood in the case of ancestor and heir.	 Otherwise, in	someconceivable cases, the provisions of s. 43, quoted1131above, would become otiose.  The contention raised on behalfof the appellant, which was strongly supported by the  thirdrespondent  through Mr. Pathak, as stated above, is  that  adeclaratory  judgment would not bind anyone other  than	 theparty to the suit unless it affects some property, in  otherwords, unless the parties were privy in estate.	 But such  acontention  would render the provisions of s. 43  aforesaid,applicable  only to declarations in respect of property	 andnot declarations in respect of status.	That could not	havebeen  the intendment of the statutory rule laid down  in  s.43.   Sections 42 and 43, as indicated above,  go  together,and  are meant to be co-extensive in their operation.	Thatbeing  so, a declaratory judgment in respect of	 a  disputedstatus,	 will be binding not only upon the parties  actuallybefore	the  court, but also upon persons  claiming  throughthem  respectively.  The use of the word only' in s. 43,  asrightly	 contended on behalf of the appellant, was meant  toemphasize  that	 a declaration in Ch.  VI  of  the  SpecificRelief Act, is not a judgment in rem.  But even though	sucha  declaration	operates  only	in  personam,  the   sectionproceeds  further  to  provide that it binds  not  only	 theparties to the suit, but also persons claiming through them,respectively.  The word I respectively' has been used with aview to showing that the parties arrayed on either side, arereally	claiming  adversely to one another, so	far  as	 thedeclaration is concerned.  This is another indication of thesound rule that the court, in a particular case where it hasreasons	 to believe that there is no real conflict, may,  inexercise  of  a	 judicial discretion, refuse  to  grant	 thedeclaration asked for for oblique reasons.As a result of these considerations, we have arrived at	 thefollowing conclusions:-(1)  That the question of addition of parties under r. 10 of0. I of the Code of Civil Procedure, is generally not one ofinitial	 jurisdiction  of  the	court,	but  of	 a  judicialdiscretion  which  has to be exercised in view. of  all	 thefacts  and circumstances of a particular case; but  in	somecases,	it  may raise controversies as to the power  of	 thecourt, in contra distinction to its inherent1441132jurisdiction,  or,  in other words, of jurisdiction  in	 thelimited sense in which it is used in s. 115 of the Code;(2)That	 in  a suit relating to property in order  that	 aperson	may  be added as a party, he should  have  a  directinterest as distinguished from a commercial interest in	 thesubject matter of the litigation;(3)Where   the	subject-matter	of  a  litigation   is	 adeclaration as regards status or a legal character, the ruleof  present or direct interest may be relaxed in a  suitablecase  where the court is of the opinion that by adding	thatparty  it  would  be in a better  position  effectually	 andcompletely to adjudicate upon the controversy ;(4)The cases contemplated in the last proposition have	tobe determined in accordance with the statutory provisions ofss. 42 and 43 of the Specific Relief Act ;(5)In  cases  covered by those	statutory  provisions  thecourt is not bound to grant the declaration prayed for, on amere  admission of the claim by the defendant, if the  courthas  reasons  to insist upon a clear proof  apart  from	 theadmission;(6)The	result of a declaratory decree on the question	ofstatus	such as in controversy in the instant  case  affectsnot   only  the	 parties  actually  before  the	 court	 butgenerations to come, and, in view of that consideration, therule of I present interest' as evolved by case law  relatingto  disputes about property does not apply with full  force;and(7)The rule laid down in s. 43 of the Specific Relief  Actis  not exactly a rule of res judicata.	 It is	narrower  inone sense and wider in another.Applying  the propositions enunciated above to the facts  ofthe  instant case, we have come to the conclusion  that	 thecourts	below  did not exceed their power in  directing	 theaddition of respondents I and 2 as parties-defendants in theaction.	  Nor  can  it	be said that  the  exercise  of	 thediscretion  was	 not sound.  Furthermore,  this	 case  comesbefore us by special leave and we do not consider that it isa  fit case where we should interfere with the	exercise  ofdiscretion by the courts below.	 The appeal is, accordingly,1133dismissed.  As regards the question of costs, we direct thatit will abide the ultimate result of the litigation and willbe disposed of by the trial court.IMAM  J.-I  regret  I cannot agree with the  opinion  of  mylearned brethren expressed in the judgment just delivered.The appellant in her plaint had asked for a declaration thatshe  was a legally wedded wife of respondent 3 and that	 shewas also entitled to receive from him Kharch-e-Pandan at therate  of  Rs. 2,000 per month.	This  respondent  filed	 hiswritten	 statement in which he unequivocally  admitted	thatthe  appellant	was  married to him and that  she  was	alsoentitled  to the Kharch-e-Pandan as claimed in	the  plaint.He further admitted that the appellant bore him three issuesout of the marriage.  The appellant sought no relief or	 anydeclaration  against  respondents 1 and 2  as,	indeed,	 shecould  not have, because she had no cause of action  againstthem.	There is nothing in the pleadings of  the  appellantand  respondent 3 which discloses that respondents I  and  2have any cause of action against the appellant.	 Respondents1 and 2, however, filed an application under 0. 1, r. 10(2),of the Code of Civil Procedure before the Judge of the	CityCivil Court, Hyderabad, praying that they should be added asparties	 to the suit filed by the appellant.  The  Judge  ofthe  City  Civil  Court	 allowed  the  application  and	 hisdecision  was affirmed by the High Court.  The question	 fordecision  in  this appeal is whether the J@dge of  the	CityCivil  Court was justified in adding respondents I and 2  asparties	 to  the suit and whether the decision of  the	HighCourt upholding his order should be affirmed.The provisions of 0. 1, r. 1, state as to who may be  joinedas  plaintiffs in a suit and 0. 1, r. 3, states who  may  bejoined	as defendants.	The parties who are to be joined  asplaintiffs and defendants in a suit are persons in whom	 andagainst	 whom any right to relief in respect of	 or  arisingout  of	 the same act or transaction or series	of  acts  ortransactions is alleged to exist, whether jointly, severallyor  in the alternative, where, if such persons were  partiesin separate suits, any1134common question of law or fact would arise.  Independent  ofthis,  a  court	 has jurisdiction under 0.1,  r.  10(1),  tosubstitute or add as plaintiff any person whom it  considersnecessary  for	the  determination of the  real	 matters  indispute.   Under 0. 1, r. 10(2), the court has the power  tostrike	off a party who has been improperly joined,  whetheras  plaintiff  or defendant, and to join,  as  plaintiff  ordefendant,  any	 person who ought to have  been	 joined,  orwhose presence before the court may be necessary in order toenable it effectually and completely to adjudicate upon	 andsettle all the questions involved in the suit.	It is  quiteobvious	 from  the contents of the plaint  and	the  writtenstatement of respondent 3 that there was no occasion for theappellant  to have joined respondents I and 2 as  defendantsin  the suit.  There remains, then, to consider whether	 thecircumstances appearing in this case justified the Judge  ofthe  City  Civil  Court	 to  add  respondents  1  and  2  asdefendants under the provisions of 0. 1, r. 10(2).Respondents  1	and 2 in their application under  0.  1,  r.10(2),	of the Code of Civil Procedure, in  essence,  reliedupon  the  five following grounds for their plea  that	theyshould be added as defendants in the suit: (1)That  respondent  I was the lawful and  legally  weddedwife of respondent 3,(2)  That respondent 2 was the son  of respondent 3,(3)  That   respondents 1 and 2 should be joined as  partiesto  the	 suit because the question to  be  adjudicated	uponwould  seriously  affect their rights and  interest  in	 theestate of respondent 3,(4)That by adding respondents 1 and 2 as parties neither anew cause of action would be introduced nor would the natureof the suit be altered,(5)That	 the  issue to be tried in the	suit,  after  res-pondents  I and 2 were added as parties, would still be	 thesame as the case made by the appellant was that respondent 3was  interested	 in  denying  the  appellant's	marriage  torespondent  3-a fact which respondents I and 2 were  equallyinterested in denying.The  first two grounds afford no justification	for  respon-dents I and 2 being added as parties to the suit, where1135the only question to be decided is whether the appellant  ismarried to respondent 3 and whether he had contracted to payto the appellant Rs. 2,000 a month as Kharch-e-pandan.	Evenif the appellant successfully proved that she was married torespondent  3, who had contracted to pay her Rs.  2,000	 permonth  as  Kharch-e-pandan,  the status and  the  rights  ofrespondents  I and 2 as wife and son of respondent  3  wouldremain	unaffected.  A Mohammedan is entitled to marry	morethan  once and have wives to the number four at one and	 thesame time.  This is his right under his personal law and  noone can question the exercise of this right by him.  In	 thesuit between the appellant and respondent 3, the question asto  whether the appellant was married to respondent 3 was  amatter entirely personal to the appellant and respondent  3.The  appellant	claimed	 that she was  lawfully	 married  torespondent 3. It was open to respondent 3 to either deny  oradmit  her  claim.  In fact, respondent 3 had  admitted	 theclaim  of the appellant that she was married to him.  It  isnot  open  to anyone else in the present litigation  to	 saythat he has falsely made such an admission.  It is true thatrespondents  1	and  2 have alleged  collusion	between	 theappellant  and respondent 3. No positive facts are  assertedin  support  of	 this.	The suggestion is  based  merely  onsuspicion.    Unless  the  court  is  justified	 in   addingrespondents 1 and 2 as defendants in the suit the suggestionmade  by them that there is collusion between the  appellantand  respondent	 3  should be ignored by the  court  on	 thesimple ground that respondents 1 and 2 have no locus  standito make any such representation in the present case.The  3rd, 4th and 5th grounds may be considered together  asthey  are  inter-connected.  Grounds 4 and  5  suggest	thatthere would be neither a new cause of action introduced	 norwould the nature of the suit be altered and the issue to  betried  in  the	suit  would  still  be	the  same  even	  ifrespondents  I and 2 were added as parties.  The only  issuein  the	 suit  filed by the appellant  is  whether  she	 wasmarried to respondent 3 and whether there was a contract  bythe latter to pay1136her Rs. 2,000 per month as Kharch-e-pandan.  If	 respondentsI and 2 are added as parties, questions relating to right ofinheritance  in the estate of respondent 3 would  arise	 fordetermination in addition to the only issue stated above  inthe  case.  The main ground, upon which respondents 1 and  2claim  that they should be added as parties to the suit,  isto  be found in the 3rd ground which, in substance, is	thatif  the	 appellant  is declared to  be	lawfully  wedded  torespondent 3, then the rights and interests of respondents Iand  2 in the estate of respondent 3 would be affected.	  Inother words, in the estate of respondent 3, on his death, inaddition to respondents 1 and 2, the appellant and her threechildren   by	him  would  have  rights   of	inheritance.Consequently, the extent of inheritance of respondents I and2  in  the  estate of respondent  3  would  be	considerablydiminished.  It was urged that if the appellant is given thedeclaration,  which  she seeks, the judgment  of  the  courtwould be in the exercise of matrimonial jurisdiction and  itwould be a judgment in rem as stated in s. 41 of the  IndianEvidence  Act.	Such a declaration would also be binding  onrespondents 1 and 2 by virtue of the provisions of s. 43  ofthe  Specific  Relief  Act.   The  appellant  asked  for   adeclaration  under s. 42 of the Specific Relief	 Act.	Thissection permitted a person who claimed to be entitled to anylegal character, or to any right to property, to institute asuit against any person denying, or interested to deny, suchcharacter  or right.  Respondents 1 and 2 was interested  indenying	 the appellant's status as a wife and the status  ofher three children as the legitimate children of  respondent3.  A  declaration  in	her  favour  would  be	binding	  onrespondents I and 2 and they would never be in a position todisprove the appellant's marriage to respondent 3. This	 wasan  impossible	situation  where the  declaration  had	beenobtained from a court as the result of collusion between theappellant and respondent 3.This  submission presupposes that respondents I and 2  wouldsurvive	 respondent 3. During the lifetime of  respondent  3neither the appellant nor her children on1137the  one hand nor respondents 1 and 2 on the other have	 anyright,-, whatsoever in his estate under the Mohammedan	law.During	the  lifetime of respondent 3 respondents  I  and  2would  have  the right to be maintained by him and,  if	 theappellant is also his wife, then she and her children  wouldalso have the right to be maintained by him.  The  appellantand  respondent	 1 would also have rights arising out  of  acontract,  if  any, between them and respondent 3.  None  ofthese rights, however, are rights or interests in the estateof respondent 3. The submission also presupposes that on thedeath of respondent 3 he would have left behind some  estateto  be	inherited  by  his  heirs.   These  submissions	 areentirely speculative and afford no basis for the  impleadingof  respondents 1 and 2 as parties to the appellant's  suit.It was said, however, that the right to inherit is a presentright  in  respondents	1  and 2 and  if  the  appellant  isdeclared to be the wife of respondent 3, then that right  toinheritance  is affected.  This contention is erroneous	 andthere is no legal basis to support it.	If the appellant  isdeclared  to be the wife of respondent 3 such a	 declarationcould  not  affect  the	 right to inherit  on  the  part  ofrespondents I and 2 in the estate of respondent 3,  assumingthat  respondent  3  on	 his death  left  an  estate  to  beinherited  and	that  the appellant  and  her  children	 andrespondents  I	and  2	survived him.	The  extent  of	 theinheritance of each one of these may thus become less but sofar as that is concerned it cannot be predicated during	 thelifetime  of respondent 3 as to what would be the extent  ofthe inheritance of his heirs.  Under the Mohammedan law,  bywhich  the  parties  are governed, respondent  3  could	 yetvalidly	 marry two other women and have children from  them,in which case, the inheritance, if any, could not be to	 thesame extent if respondent 3 died leaving only respondents  Iand  2	as his heirs.  The entire question  raised  by	res-pondents I and 2 is based on the supposition that they	haverights	in the estate of respondent 3. Under the  Mohammedanlaw  they have no such rights.	It is only in the  event  oftheir surviving respondent 3 that their rights will vest  inhis estate and the extent of1138their  inheritance  will  be calculated	 on  the  number  ofpersons	 entitled to inherit his estate at the time  of	 hisdeath.It  was urged, however, that unless respondents 1 and 2	 arenow  given  an opportunity to show that there was  no  validmarriage   between  the	 appellant  and	 respondent   3,   adeclaration  that  there was a marriage	 between  these	 twopersons would be binding on them by virtue of the provisionsof s. 43 of the Specific Relief Act.  If, therefore, on	 thedeath  of  respondent  3 a question arose  as  to  who	wereentitled  to inherit his estate, respondents I and  2  wouldnot be able to question the rights of the appellant and	 herchildren  and  they  would  be	adversely  affected  by	 thedeclaration.  It is somewhat doubtful, having regard to	 theterms of s. 43, that such a declaration in the present	suitwould be binding on respondents I and 2 as they would not beclaiming  their right to inheritance through  the  appellantand respondent 3 respectively.	Assuming, however, that sucha  declaration	would be binding on them, that would  be  nojustification  for  their  being impleaded  in	the  presentlitigation where the issue is not one of inheritance but oneof  marriage between the appellant and respondent 3. If	 thesubmission has any substance it might as well be said by anyone  that  he should be impleaded as a party to a  suit	 andshould be allowed to contest the suit, although there was nocause of action against him, because the decree in the	suitwould bind him on the ground of res judicata.It is true that in a suit under s. 42 of the Specific ReliefAct  it	 is discretionary with the court to make or  not  tomake  the  declaration	asked for.   The  exercise  of	thatdiscretion,  however,  has to be judicial.  In	the  presentcase there does not appear to be any legal impediment in theway of the court refusing to make the declaration asked	 forsince  respondent  3 had acknowledged the marriage  and	 hadadmitted  the  claim for Rs. 2,000 per	month  as  Kharch-e-pandan.	 The appellant has not asked for any sum of money tobe  decreed in her favour.  There is no cause of action	 nowleft to the appellant which can be the basis for the presentsuit.  The appellant could rely upon the1139acknowledgement	  which	 raises	 a  presumption	 under	 theMohammedan  law that she is married to respondent  3.  Thereappears to be no good ground for adding respondents I and  2as  parties  to	 the  present suit.   If  hereafter  on	 thehappening  of a certain event and the existence	 of  certaincircumstance  any question arose whether the  appellant	 wasmarried	 to respondent 3, then those who were interested  indisproving the marriage would be in a position to do so	 andrebut the presumption arising from the acknowledgement.Under O. 1, r. 10, of the Code of Civil Procedure the  courthas the power to pass orders regarding the adding of partiesor  striking off the name of a party.  Whether the  exerciseof  this power is a matter of jurisdiction or of  discretionappears to have been the subject of difference of opinion inthe  courts of law here and in England.	 Whichever view	 maybe correct it is. patent that resort to the exercise of suchpower could only be had if the court is satisfied that it isnecessary  to make an order under 0. 1, r. 10, in  order  toeffectually  and completely adjudicate upon and	 settle	 allquestions  involved  in the suit.  The court  ought  not  tocompel	a plaintiff to add a party to the suit where on	 theface  of  the plaint the plaintiff has no  cause  of  actionagainst him.  If a party is added by the court without whose-presence  all	questions  involved in	the  suit  could  beeffectually  and  completely  adjudicated  upon,  then	 theexercise of the power is improper and even if it be a matterof  discretion such an order should not be allowed to  standwhen  that  order is questioned in a  superior	court.	 Theplaintiff  is entitled to choose as defendants against	whomhe has a cause of action and he should not be burdened	withthe task of meeting a party against whom he has no cause  ofaction.	 It was, however, suggested that on the face of	 theplaint	not only respondent 3 was interested in denying	 hismarriage with the appellant but a legitimate inference couldbe drawn from the contents of the pleadings that respondents1  and 2 were also interested in denying the  marriage.	  Noallegation made in the pleadings even remotely suggests thatrespondents I and 2 were interested to deny the alleged1451140marriage  of the appellant to respondent 3 or  were  denyingthe same.  Under s. 42 of the Specific Relief Act a suit maybe  instituted against any person denying or  interested  todeny  the  plaintiffs  legal  character	 or  right  to	 anyproperty.   The plaint does not suggest that  respondents  1and  2	were  denying  the appellant's	status	as  wife  ofrespondent  3.	Such an issue was raised  by  the  appellantagainst	 respondent 3 only.  In law, it cannot be said	thatrespondents 1 and 2 are interested to deny the status of theappellant as the wife of respondent 3 because the status  ofrespondent  I  as  wife	 and respondent	 2  as	the  son  ofrespondent  3  is  not in the least  affected  even  if	 theappellant  is  declared to be the wife of respondent  3,  asunder  the Mohammedan law respondent 3 is entitled  to	haveboth   the   appellant	and  respondent	 1  as	 his   wivesand .children through them.  The true legal position in	 thepresent suit between the appellant and respondent 3 is	thatrespondents  I	and 2 have no locus standi in such  a  suit.There  is  no  danger of multiplicity of  suits	 during	 thelifetime  of respondent 3. The suggestion that	the  presentsuit  would lead to multiplicity of suits is founded  on  anassumption  which no court of law can assume.  It cannot  beassumed	 that respondent 3 would die first.  It may well  bethat he may survive both respondents I and 2, in which case,no  question  of  any suit coming into	existence  at  theirinstance  would arise.	If the order allowing respondents  1and 2 to be added as parties in a suit of the present natureis allowed to stand it will open the way to a wider exerciseof  powers under 0. 1, r. 10, and in a manner which was	 notcontemplated by the Code of Civil Procedure, or s. 42 of theSpecific Relief Act or permissible under the Mohammedan law.I  would, accordingly, allow the appeal as both	 the  courtsbelow  were  in error in supposing that this was a  case  inwhich  the provisions of 0. 1, r. 10, applied and would	 setaside  the  orders of the courts below.	  The  appellant  isentitled to her costs throughout.BY  COURT:  The	 appeal is dismissed.  Costs  to  abide	 theresult of litigation in the trial court.Appeal dismissed.1141