PETITIONER:ASGARALI NAZARALI SINGAPORAWALLA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/02/1957BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDAKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  503		  1957 SCR  678ACT:Criminal   trial-Enactment  Providing  for   speedy   trial-Specified  offences  made  triable only	 by  Special  Judgesempowered  to award heavier sentences-If  violates  equalitybefore the law-Pendency of-Criminal Law Amendment Act, (XLVIOf 1952)-Constitution of India, Are. 14.HEADNOTE:The  appellant and four others were being tried	 before	 thePresidency Magistrate, Bombay for charges under s. 161	readwith  116  and	further read with s. 109 or s.	114  of	 theIndian	Penal  Code.  During the pendency of the  trial	 theCriminal  Law Amendment Act, 952 (XLVI Of 1952) was  enactedby Parliament and came into force on July 28, 952.  The	 Actprovided for the trial of all offences punishable under	 ss.161,  165 or 165-A, of the Indian Penal Code, or sub-s.	 (2)Of  s.	5,  of	the  Prevention	 of  Corruption	 Act,	1947exclusively  by Special judges and directed the transfer  ofall such trials pending on the date of the coming(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 583.679into  force  of the Act to Special Judges.   The  PresidencyMagistrate continued the trial and acquitted the  appellant.Upon  appeal  by the State Government, the High	 Court	heldthat  from  the	 date of the commencement  of  the  Act	 thePresidency Magistrate lost all jurisdiction to continue	 thetrial  and ordered a retrial by the Special judge.   It	 wascontended  that the Act was void as it violated Art.  14  Ofthe  Constitution  and	consequently could  not	 affect	 thejurisdiction  of the Presidency Magistrate to  continue	 thetrial.Held,  that  the  Act  did  not	 violate  Art.	14  Of	 theConstitution.	The  Legislature  classified  the   offencespunishable  under ss. 161, 165 or 165-A of the Indian  PenalCode  or  sub-s. 2 Of s. 5 of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct,  1947  in one group or category.	They  were  offencesrelating  to  bribery or corruption by public  servants	 andwere appropriately classified in one group or category.	 Theclassification	was founded on an  intelligible	 differentiawhich distinguished the offenders thus grouped together fromthose left out of the group.  This intelligible	 differentiahad rational relation to the object sought to be achieved bythe Act, the object being to provide for speedier trials  ofthe  said  offences.   Bribery and  corruption	having	beenrampant	 and  the  need for weeding  them  out	having	beenurgently felt, it was necessary to enact the measure for thepurpose	 of eliminating all possible delay in  bringing	 theoffenders to book.The State of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara, (195I) S.C.R. 682,Budhan	 Chowdhary     others v. The State of Bihar,  (1955)S.C.R.1945  and	 Kedar	Nath Bajoria v. The  State  of	WestBengal, (1954) S.C.R- 30, applied.There  is  no doubt that the case of the appellant  was	 notconcluded  and was pending before the Presidency  Magistrateon  July 28, 1952, the date of the commencement of the	Act.The  fact  that the Special judge was  not  appointed  untilSeptember  26,	1952, on which date the	 arguments  for	 theprosecution  and the defence were concluded did	 not  affectthe  position.	Even if it be assumed that the Act  did	 noteffectively  commence until the Special judge was  appointedby  the notification of September 26, 1952, which came	intoeffect immediately after the midnight of September 25, 1952,the  trial  of	the  appellant could not  be  said  to	haveconcluded  before  that, for a trial is not  complete  untileither the sentence has been passed or the accused has	beenordered to be discharged.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 149  of1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober	 20,  1953,  of the Bombay High	 Court	in  CriminalAppeal No. 349 of 1953.680S. A. Desai and I. N. Shroff, for the-appellant..Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1957.  February 19.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyBHAGWATI J.-This appeal with special leave under Art. 136 ofthe Constitution is directed against a judgment of the	HighCourt of Judicature at Bombay setting aside the acquittal ofthe  appellant	by the Court of the  Presidency	 Magistrate,19th Court, Bombay and ordering his re-trial by the Court ofthe  Special  Judge, Greater Bombay in accordance  with	 theprovisions of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1952 (Act XLVIof 1952).The appellant was accused No. 3 in the Court of the  learnedPresidencv  Magistrate.	 Accused No. 1 was the Mehta in	 theemploy	of  a  firm called Messrs.  M. M.  Baxabhoy  &	Co.,accused	 No.  2	 was the mana. ger of the  said	 firm.	 Theappellant  and	accused Nos. 4 and 5 were Receivers  of	 thefirm  in litigation in regard to it.  They were all  chargedwith offences under s. 161 read with s. 116 and further readeither	with s. 109 or s. 114 of the Indian Penal  Code	 foroffering  to one Jibhai Chhotalal Barot, a sub-inspector  ofpolice	attached to the Anti-Corruption Branch of the C.  1.D.  the sum of Rs. 1,25,000 as illegal	gratification  otherthan  legal  remuneration  as' a motive or  reward  for	 hisshowing	 favour to the accused and to the firm M/s.   M.  M.Baxabhoy  & Co., in the exercise of his official  functions.The  offence was alleged to have been committed on July	 28,1950, and the accused were charge-sheeted on June 16,  1951;the trial commenced on July 14, 1951 and charges were framedon  September 27, 1951. 40 witnesses were examined  and	 226documents were exhibited in the course of the trial, and theprosecution closed its case on July 15, 1952.During	the course of the trial the Criminal  Law  AmendmentAct, 1952 (XLVI of 1952) hereinafter called the impugned Actwas enacted by Parliament681on  July 28, 1952, being an Act further to amend the  IndianPenal  Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 and  toprovide	 for a more speedy trial of certain offences,  viz.,offences  punishable  under s. 161,s.165 or s. 165A  of	 theIndian Penal Code or sub-s. 2 of   s. 5 of the Prevention ofCorruption Act, 1947 (ActII   of 1947) and any conspiracy tocommit	or any attempt to commit or any abetment of  any  ofthe  offences  specified  above.   The	learned	  PresidencyMagistrate   proceeded	 with  the  trial  and	 after	 theexamination  of	 the appellant under s. 342 of the  Code  ofCriminal   Procedure,  the  appellant  filed   his   writtenstatement  on  August  14, 1952.   The	addresses  commencedthereafter.  The prosecution commenced its address on August26,  1952,  ending  it on September 5,	1952.	The  defencethereafter   addressed	the  learned  Magistrate.   In	 themeantime on September 23, 1952, the Government of Bombay  bya  notification	 appointed a Special Judge to  try  offencesspecified  above and this -appointment was notified  in	 theOfficial  Gazette  on  September  26,  1952.   The   defenceconcluded its address on September 26, 1952 and the  learnedPresidency  Magistrate delivered his judgment  on  September29, 1952, whereby he convicted the Accused Nos.	 I and 2  ofthe offences with which they were charged and sentenced themeach to nine months rigorous imprisonment and a fine of	 Rs.1,000  in  default  6  months'	rigorous  imprisonment.	  Hehowever acquitted the appellant and the accused Nos. 4 and 5of these offences.The accused No. 2 carried an appeal before the High Court ofBombay being Criminal Appeal No. 1304 of 1952.	The State ofBombay also thereupon filed an appeal against the  acquittalof  the	 appellant and accused Nos. 4 and 5  being  CriminalAppeal	No.  349 of 1953.  In the memorandum  of  appeal  inCriminal  Appeal No. 349 of 1953 a point was taken that	 thelearned	  Presidency  Magistrate  had  no  jurisdiction	  tocontinue the trial and acquit the appellant and accused Nos.4 and 5 as the same was ousted by the impugned Act.  It	 wascontended  that since the date the said Act came into  forcethe Special Judge alone682had jurisdiction to try the accused for the offence under s.161 read with s. 116 of the Indian Penal Code, that the dutyof  the learned Presidency Magistrate was to  transfer	thiscase  to the Court of the Special Judge for Greater  Bombay,specially appointed to try such offences by the impugned Actand that the order of acquittal of the appellant and accusedNos.  4 and 5 was therefore erroneous in law  being  withoutjurisdiction.Both  these  Criminal Appeals came up for hearing  before  aBench  of  the Bombay High Court consisting of	Bavadekar  &Vyas  JJ.  These appeals were heard only on the	 preliminarypoint  as  to  the jurisdiction of  the	 learned  PresidencyMagistrate  to	try and decide the case.  In  reply  to	 thepoint  as to jurisdiction which had been taken by the  Stateof Bombay, the appellant and the accused Nos. 4 and 5  urgedthat  the provisions of the impugned Act were  violative  ofthe principle of equal protection of laws contained in	Art.14  of the Constitution and therefore the impugned  Act	 wasultra  vires  the  Constitution.  If that  was	so,  it	 wascontended,    the   learned   Presidency   Magistrate	 hadjurisdiction   to  continue  the  trial	 in  spite  of	 thecommencement of the impugned Act and the order of  acquittalof  the appellant and accused Nos. 4 and 5 recorded  by	 himwas correct.The   learned  judges  of  the	High  Court  rejected	thiscontention  of the appellant and held that the impugned	 Actwas  intra vires and that the learned Presidency  Magistratehad  no jurisdiction to try the case after the	commencementof  the	 impugned  Act.	  The  learned	Magistrate's   orderconvicting  the accused No. 2 and acquitting  the  appellantand  the accused Nos. 4 and 5 complained of by the State  ofBombay was accordingly set aside.  The High Court ordered  are-trial of the appellant and the other accused by the Courtof the Special Judge, Greater Bombay, and remanded the	casefor disposal according to law.The  appellant applied to the High Court for  a	 certificateunder Art. 134 (1) (c) of the Constitution which was howeverrefused.  The appellant thereafter683applied	 for and obtained from this Court special  leave  toappeal	against	 the judgment and order passed by  the	HighCourt.	 This is how the appeal has come up for hearing	 andfinal disposal before us.It will be convenient at this stage to set out the  relevantprovisions  of	the  impugned Act.   As	 already  noted	 thepreamble  to  the Act stated that it was an Act	 further  toamend  the  Indian  Penal  Code and  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure,  1898, and to provide for a more speedy trial  ofcertain offences.  Section 5 of the Act inserted sub-s.	 (2-B)  in	s. 337 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,  1898	 andprovided that in every case where the offence is  punishableunder s. 161 or s. 165 or s. 165-A of the Indian Penal	Codeor  sub-s. (2) of section 5 of the Prevention of  CorruptionAct,  1947, ..........................................	thennotwithstanding	 anything  contained in	 sub-s.	 (2-A),	 theMagistrate  shall, without making any further enquiry,	sendthe  case  for	trial  to the Court  of	 the  Special  Judgeappointed  under  the impugned Act.  This amendment  was  toremain in force for a period of two years from the commence-ment of the impugned Act, but was subsequently	incorporatedin the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, as s. 337 (2-B)  bys.  59 (b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Amendment	Act,1955 (Act XXVI of 1955).  Section 6 of the Act provided	 forthe  appointment of Special Judges and empowered  the  StateGovernments  by	 notification  in the  Official	 Gazette  toappoint as many Special Judges as may be necessary for	sucharea or areas as may be specified in the notification to trythe following offences, namely:(a)  an offence punishable under s. 161, s. 165 or s.  165-Aof  the	 Indian	 Penal Code or sub-s. (2) of  s.  5  of	 thePrevention of Corruption Act, 1947; and(b)  any  conspiracy to commit or any attempt to  commit  orany abetment of the offences specified in el. (a) above.Section	  6  (2)  laid	down  the  qualifications  for	 theappointment  of a Special Judge and provided that: a  personshall  not be qualified for appointment as a  Special  Judgeunder this Act unless he was or had been 88684a  Sessions  Judge  or an Additional Sessions  Judge  or  anAssistant   Sessions  Judge  under  the	 Code  of   CriminalProcedure,  1898.   Section 7 of the Act  is  important	 andprovided that notwithstanding anything contained in the Codeof  Criminal Procedure, 1898 or any other law  the  offencesspecified in sub-s. (1) of s. 6 shall be triable by  specialjudges only.  Section 7(2) further provided that when tryingany  case, a Special Judge. may also try any  offence  otherthan  an  offence specified in s. 6 with which	the  accusedmay,  under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 be  chargedat  the	 same trial.  The procedure and	 powers	 of  specialjudges	were laid down in s. 6 of the Act.  A Special  Judgewas  empowered	to take cognizance of offences	without	 theaccused being committed to him for trial, and in trying	 theaccused	 persons, he was to follow the procedure  prescribedby  the	 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 for the  trial  ofwarrant	 cases	by magistrates.	 A Special  Judge  was	alsoempowered to tender a pardon to any person supposed to	havebeen  directly or indirectly concerned in, or privy  to,  anoffence	 on  condition	of  his	 making	 a  full  and	truedisclosure  of the whole circumstances within his  knowledgerelating to the offence and to every other person concerned,whether	 as  a	principal  or  abetter,	 in  the  commissionthereof.   Save	 as  above the provisions  of  the  CriminalProcedure   Code,  1898	 were  so  far	as  they  were	 notinconsistent with the Act made applicable to the proceedingsbefore	a  Special Judge. and for the purposes of  the	saidprovisions, the Court of the Special Judge was deemed to  bea  Court of Sessions trying cases without a jury or  withoutthe aid of assessors.  A Special Judge was empowered to passupon any person convicted by him any sentence authorised  bylaw for the punishment of the offences of which such  personwas convicted.	Section 9 of the Act provided for appeal andrevision  and  the  High Court was to  exercise	 as  far  asapplicable  all	 the powers conferred by Chapters  XXXI	 andXXXII  -of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 on the	HighCourt, as if the Court of the Special Judge were a Court  ofSessions trying cases without a jury within the local limitsof the jurisdiction of the High Court.685Section	 10 is also important and provided for the  transferof  certain cases pending before magistrates.  It  was	laiddown  that all cases triable by a Special Judge under s.  7,which  immediately before the commencement of the Act,	werepending	 before any Magistrate shall, on such  commencement,be   forwarded	for  trial  to	the  Special  Judge   havingjurisdiction over such cases.It is clear from the provisions of the impugned Act set	 outhereinabove  that  the	intention  of  the  legislature	  inenacting the same was to amend the Indian Penal Code and theCode of Criminal Procedure, 1898 with a view to provide	 fora  more speedy trial of offences punishable under  ss.	161,165 or 165-A, of the Indian Penal Code or sub-s. (2) of s. 5of  the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.  Special  Judgesof the status of a Sessions Judge or an Additional  SessionsJudge  or an Assistant Sessions Judge were to  be  appointedfor the purpose of trying these offences and these  offenceswere  made triable only by these Special Judges.   Not	onlywere   the  special  judges  invested  with  the   exclusivejurisdiction  to  try  these offences  but  they  were	alsoempowered while trying any case involving these offences  totry  any  offence other than those offences with  which	 theaccused	 may, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898  becharged at the same trial.  Committal proceedings were	alsodone away with and the special judges were empowered to takecognizance  of	these  offences without	 the  accused  beingcommitted  to them for trial and were empowered to  try	 theaccused	 persons  of  the same by  following  the  procedureprescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, for	 thetrial  of warrant cases by magistrates.	 The courts  of	 theSpecial	 Judges were deemed to be courts of Sessions  tryingcases  without	a jury or without the aid of  assessors	 andwere  also empowered to pass upon the persons  convicted  bythem  of any offence any sentence authorised by law for	 thepunishment  of	such  offences.	 The powers  of	 appeal	 andrevision vested in the High Court were to be exercised as ifthe  courts  of Special Judges were the courts	of  sessionstrying cases without a jury or without the aid of  assessorswithin the local limits686of  the jurisdiction of the High Court.	 The  procedure	 fortrial before the Special Judges was thus assimilated to thatobtaining in the case of trial of the accused by the  courtsof sessions.Having	thus  provided for the trial by	 Special  Judges  ofthese  offences	 which would be triable by  them  after	 thecommencement  of the impugned Act, the Act further  providedfor  a	transfer of cases falling within that  category	 butpending	 before the magistrates.  It may be noted  that	 theother  provisions of the Act were prospective  in  operationand  could not affect pending cases as such.  Provision	 hadtherefore  to be made for divesting the magistrates who	 hadalready taken cognizance of these cases, of jurisdiction  totry  the  same	any further and for  the  transfer  of	suchpending	 cases	to the special judges  who  were.  appointedunder  the  Act.  The cases which were	pending	 before	 thecourts	of  sessions did not require to	 be  so	 transferredbecause	 they would be tried by the procedure  obtaining  inthe  courts of sessions and nothing further required  to  bedone.	The cases which were pending before the	 Magistrateshowever	 required  to be transferred to the  Special  Judgesbecause otherwise the Magistrates would continue to try	 thesame  and  would  have	to' commit them	 to  the  courts  ofsessions,  they	 themselves  being unable to  mete  out	 theenhanced punishment which could be meted out to the  accusedon conviction.	The Committal proceedings were sought to  beeliminated  by the impugned Act and the Special Judges	wereempowered  to  try  these cases as if they  were  courts  ofsessions  trying cases without a jury or without the aid  ofassessors.   It	 was therefore provided that  cases  fallingunder	this   category	 which	were  pending	before	 themagistrates  should on the commencement of the impugned	 Actbe  forwarded  for  trial  to  the  special  judges   havingjurisdiction over such cases.  This provision was made	whenthese cases triable by the Special Judges under s. 7 of	 theAct were pending before the magistrates and the	 magistratestrying the same were ipso facto divested of the jurisdictionto  try the same any further, the Special  Judges  appointedUnder the Act having been invested with exclusive687jurisdiction  to try the same after the commencement of	 theAct.If this was the position under the impugned Act it  followedwithout	 anything  more	 that the  instant  case  which	 waspending before the learned Presidency Magistrate on July 28,1952,  which  was the date of the commencement of  the	Act,could not proceed any further before him.  By the  operationof  s.	7  of  the  impugned  Act,  the	 learned  PresidencyMagistrate  was	 divested  of jurisdiction  to	try  it	 andwhatever  proceedings were continued before him	 after	July28,   1952,  were  without  jurisdiction  and	void.	 Theexamination  of	 the appellant under s. 342 of the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  and the further proceedings by  way  offiling of the written statement and the arguments  addressedby  the prosecution as well as the defence were all  withoutjurisdiction  and  so were the orders of conviction  of	 theaccused Nos.  I and 2 and the acquittal of the appellant andthe accused Nos. 4 and 5.It  was	 however contended by the learned  counsel  for	 theappellant before us that the provisions of the impugned	 Actwere violative of the fundamental right enshrined in Art. 14of  the	 Constitution and were therefore ultra	vires.	 Therespondents  on	 the  other hand urged	that  there  was  noclassification	at  all and even if there was  one,  it	 wasbased  on  intelligible	 differentia  and  had	a   rationalrelation to the object sought to be achieved.The provisions of the impugned Act in substance amended	 theIndian	Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure,	1898pro tanto making the speci. fied offences triable by specialjudges	and all persons who committed these offences  becamepunishable  by	higher	sentences  and	were  subjected	 to,procedure  for	trial of warrant cases, the  courts  of	 thespecial judges being deemed to be courts of sessions  tryingcases without a jury or without the aid of asessors.  It cantherefore be legitimately urged that there was no  classifi-cation	at  all, the provisions thus enacted  being  equallyapplicable to all citizens alike without any  discriminationwhatever.688The matter was however argued before the High Court and alsobefore	us  on the basis that the  offenders  who  committedthese  specified  offences  formed a group  or	category  bythemselves   and  were	classified  as	distinct  from	 theoffenders who committed the other offences under the  IndianPenal  Code.   We do not want to express any opinion  as  towhether	 there is any classification discernible within	 theprovisions  of	the impugned Act, but will proceed  to	dealwith  this  aspect of the question on  the  assumption	thatthere  was such a classification intended to be made by	 theLegislature while enacting the impugned Act.The  principles underlying Art. 14 of the Constitution	havebeen  completely  thrashed out in the several  decisions  ofthis  Court  ere this.	The earliest pronouncement  of	thisCourt  on the meaning and scope of Art. 14 was made  in	 thecase  of Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury v. The Union  of  India(1).The  principles enunciated in that case were  summarized  byFazl  Ali  J.  as follows in The State of Bombay  v.  F.  N.Balsara (2) :(1)  The   presumption	 is   always  in   favour   of	 theconstitutionality of an enactment, since it must be  assumedthat  the legislature understands and correctly	 appreciatesthe  needs of its own people, that its laws are directed  toproblems made manifest by experience and its discriminationsare based on adequate grounds.(2)  The  presumption  may be rebutted in certain  cases  byshowing	 that  on  the	face of the  statute,  there  is  noclassification	at  all and no difference  peculiar  to	 anyindividual  or	class  and  not	 applicable  to	 any   otherindividual or class, and yet the law hits only a  particularindividual or class.(3)  The principle of equality does not mean that every	 lawmust have universal application for all persons who are	 notby nature, attainment or circumstances in the same position,and the varying needs of different classes of persons  oftenrequire separatetreatment.(4)  The  principle  does not take away from the  State	 thepower of classifying persons for legitimatepurposes.(1)  [1950] S.C.R. p. 869.(2) [1951] S.C.R. 682, at P. 708.689(5)  Every  classification  is	in  some  degree  likely  toproduce	 some inequality, and mere production of  inequalityis not enough.(6)  If	 a law deals equally with members of a well  definedclass, it is not obnoxious and it is not open to the  chargeof  denial of equal protection on the ground that it has  noapplication to other persons.(7)  While  reasonable classification is  permissible,	suchclassification must be based upon some real and	 substantialdistinction  bearing a reasonable and just relation  to	 theobject sought to be attained, and the classification  cannotbe made arbitrarily and without any substantial basis."The latest pronouncement on this topic is to be found in thejudgment  of this Court in the case of Budhan  Choudhry	 andOthers	v. The State of Bihar (1) where it was	observed  asfollows:" The provisions of Art. 14 of the Constitution have come upfor  discussion	 before	 this Court in a  number  of  cases,namely,	 Chiranjit  Lal	 Chowdhury v.  The  Union  of  India(supra),  The State of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara (supra),	 TheState  of  West-Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar (2  Kathi  RaningRawat  v.  The State of Saurashtra(3),	Lachmandas  KewalramAhuja  v.  The State of Bombay (4) Syed Qasim Razvi  v.	 TheState  of  Hyderabad(5) and Habeeb Mohamad v. The  State  ofHyderabad(6)  It is, therefore, not necessary to enter	uponany  length discussion as to the meaning, scope	 and  effectof-  the  article in question.	It is  now  well-establishedthat while article 14 forbids class legislation, it does notforbid	 reasonable  classification  for  the  purposes	  oflegislation.   In  order,  however,  to	 pass  the  test  ofpermissible classification two conditions must be fulfilled,namely,	 (i) that the classification must be founded  on  anintelligible  differentia  which  distinguishes	 persons  orthings that are grouped together from others left out of thegroup  and  (ii)  that	differentia  must  have	 a  rationalrelation to the object sought to be achieved     (1)  [1955] I S.C.R. I045 at p. 1048.(4) [1952]  S.C.R.710.     (2) [1052] S.C.R. 284.(5) [1953] S.C.R. 589.     (3) [1952] S.C.R. 435.(6) [1953] S.C.R. 661.690by  the	 statute  in question.	The  classification  may  befounded	 on  a	different  base	 namely,  geographical,	  oraccording  to objects or occupations or the like.   What  isnecessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis ofclassification	 and   the   object   of   the	 Act   underconsideration.	It is also well-established by the decisionsof  this Court that article 14 condemns	 discrimination	 notonly by a substantive law but also by a law of procedureWe have to scrutinize the provisions of the impugned Act  inthe light of the principles enunciated above.The first question which we have to address to ourselves  iswhether	  there	 is  in	 the  impugned	Act   a	  reasonableclassification for the purposes of legislation.	 It we	lookto  the	 provisions  of the impugned Act  closely  it  wouldappear	 that  the  legislature	 classified   the   offencespunishable  under ss. 161, 165 or 165-A of the Indian  PenalCode  or  sub-s. 2 of s. 5 of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct,  1947  in one group or category.	They  were  offencesrelating  to  bribery or corruption by public  servants	 andwere thus appropriately classified in one group or category.The   classification   was  founded   on   an	intelligibledifferentia  which distinguished the offenders thus  groupedtogether from those left out of the group.  The persons	 whocommitted these offences of bribery or corruption would forma  class by themselves quite distinct from  those  offenderswho  could be dealt with by the normal provisions  containedin the Indian Penal Code or the Code of Criminal  Procedure,1898  and  if  the offenders falling within  this  group  orcategory were thus singled out for special treatment,  therewould  be no question of any discriminatory treatment  beingmeted out to, them as compared with other offenders who	 didnot fall within the same group or category and who continuedto be treated under the normal procedure.The  next question to consider is whether  this	 differentiahad a rational relation to the object sought to be  achievedby the impugned Act.  The preamble of the Act showed that itwas  enacted  for providing a more speedy trial	 of  certainoffences.  An argument was however addressed before us basedon certain691observations of Mahajan J. (as he then was) at page 314, andMukherjea  J.  (as  he	then was) at p.	 328  in  Anwar	 AliSarkar's Case(1) quoted at page 43 by Patanjali Sastri	C.J.in  the	 case  of Kedar Nath Bajoria V. The  State  of	WestBengal	(2)  that the speedier trial of offences  could	 notafford a reasonable basis for such classification.  Standingby  themselves	these  passages might lend  support  to	 thecontention  urged before us by the learned counsel  for	 theappellant.   It must be noted, however, that this ratio	 wasnot  held  to  be conclusive by this  Court  in	 Kedar	NathBajoria's Case(2) where this Court held:"  (1) That when a law like the present one is	impugned  onthe  ground that it contravenes art. 14 of the	Constitutionthe  real issue to be decided is whether, having  regard  tothe underlying purpose and policy of the Act as disclosed byits  title, preamble and provisions, the  classification  ofthe offences for the trial of which the Special Court is setup  and a special procedure is laid down can be said  to  beunreasonable  or  arbitrary and therefore violative  of	 theequal protection clause;(2)  having  regard to the fact that the types	of  offencesspecified  in the Schedule to the Act were very	 common	 andwidely	prevalent during the post war period and has  to  bechecked	 effectively and speedily tried, the legislation  inquestion  must	be  regarded  as  having  been	based  on  aperfectly intelligent principle of classification, having  aclear  and  reasonable relation to the object sought  to  beachieved,  and it did not in any way contravene art.  14  ofthe Constitution."In  the	 instant case, bribery and  corruption	having	beenrampant	 and  the  need for weeding  them  out	having	beenurgently  felt, it was necessary to enact measures  for	 thepurpose	 of 'eliminating all possible delay in bringing	 theoffenders  to  book.   It was with that	 end  in  view	thatprovisions  were  enacted in the impugned Act  for  speediertrial  of  the said offences by the appointment	 of  specialjudges who were invested with exclusive jurisdiction to	 trythe same and were also empowered to take cognizance  thereofwithout the(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 284.89(2) [1954] S.C.R. 30.692accused	 being committed to them for trial, and follow	,theprocedure  prescribed  for  the trial of  warrant  cases  bymagistrates.  The proceedings before the Special Judges werethus assimilated to those before the courts of sessions	 fortrying cases without a jury or without the aid of  assessorsand  the powers of appeal and revision invested in the	HighCourt	were  also  similarly  circumscribed.	 All   theseprovisions  had	 the necessary effect of  bringing  about  aspeedier  trial	 of these offences and it cannot  be  deniedthat this intelligible differentia had rational relation  tothe object sought to be achieved by the impugned Act.	Boththese  conditions  were thus fulfilled and it could  not  beurged  that the provisions of the impugned Act were  in	 anymanner violative of art.'14 of the Constitution.It  was	 next contended that even if the  impugned  Act	 wasintra  vires, the learned Presidency Magistrate	 trying	 thecase  of the appellant was not divested of  jurisdiction  totry the same after the commencement of the impugned Act	 andthe acquittal of the appellant recorded by him could not  beset  aside.  Reliance was placed upon s. 10 of the  impugnedAct  in support of this contention.  It was urged that	eventhough the case related to the offence mentioned in s.	6(1)of  the Act and was thus triable exclusively by the  SpecialJudge,	no Special Judge was appointed by the State  Govern-ment by notification in the Official Gazette until September26,1952,  that	the arguments were concluded and  the  trialcame to an end also on September 26, 1952 and the only thingwhich  remained to be done thereafter was the  pronouncementof  the	 judgment by the learned Presidency  Magistrate	 andthat  therefore even though the case may be deemed  to	havebeen  pending  before the learned Magistrate  there  was  nooccasion  for forwarding the same for trial to	the  SpecialJudge  appointed  by the State Government on  September	 26,1952.We do not accept this contention.  It cannot be denied	thaton  July  28,1952,  the	 date of  the  commencement  of	 theimpugned  Act the case of the appellant was  pending  beforethe   learned  Presidency  Magistrate.	 On  that  day	 theprosecution had closed its case andS.C.R.	   SUPREME COURT REPORTS		     693the appellant had not yet been called upon to enter upon hisdefence.   The examination of the appellant under s. 342  ofthe  Code of Criminal Procedure took place after that  date.The appellant filed his written statement on August 14, 1952and the addresses by the prosecution as well as the  defencecontinued  right  up  to September 26,	1952.	The  word  "pending	 " is thus defined in Stroud's Judicial	 Dictionary,3rd Edition, Vol.  III, p. 2141:PENDING:-(1)  A	 legal proceeding is "pending"	as  soon  ascommenced  and until it is concluded, i.e., so long  as	 theCourt having original cognizance of it can make an order  onthe matters in issue, or to be dealt with, therein.Similar	 are  the  observations	 of  Jessel,  M.  R.  In  reClagett's Estate, Fordham v. Clagett (1):"  What	 is  the meaning of the word " pending "  ?   In  myopinion,   it  includes	 every	insolvency  in	 which	 anyproceeding can by any possibility be taken.  That I think isthe	   meaning	  of	    the	       word	   "pending........... ....................................... Acause  is said to be pending in a Court of justice when	 anyproceeding can be taken in it.	That is the test."There  is no doubt therefore that the case of the  appellantwas  not  concluded  and  was  pending	before	the  learnedPresidency Magistrate at the date of the commencement of theimpugned Act.We  were however told that as many as 40 witnesses had	beenexamined  and 226 documents exhibited in the course  of	 thetrial before the learned Presidency Magistrate and it  couldnot  have been intended by the Legislature when enacting  s.10 of the impugned Act that a case where everything had beenfinished  except the addresses and the pronouncement of	 thejudgment  should be forwarded for trial before	the  SpecialJudge appointed under the Act.	The fallacy underlying	thisargument  is that on July 28, 1952, when the  impugned	Act.came into, operation the trial even in the restricted  senseof  the	 term had not been concluded.  The  prosecution	 hadclosed its case but the appellant(1)  (1882) 20 Ch.  D. 637 at p. 653.694lad  yet  to enter upon his defence and	 lead  evidence,  if-any,  in reply to the case set up by the prosecution.	 Thesame was the position even on September 26, 1952, when by  anotification  in the Official Gazette the Special Judge	 wasappointed   having  jurisdiction  over	such   cases.	 Thenotification  came into operation from the  commencement  ofSeptember  26,	1952, which was immediately after  the	mid-night of September 25, 1952 and the defence address had	 notconcluded  by this time but was continued when	the  learnedPresidency  Magistrate's  Court	 assembled at 11  a.  m.  onSeptember 26, 1952 and was concluded thereafter.  The word "trial " is also defined in Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 3rdEdition, Vol.  IV, at page 3092: TRIAL:	 (1)  A "trial" is the conclusion,  by	a  competenttribunal, of questions in issue in legal proceedings whethercivil or criminal. (2) The " trial " (Criminal Justice	Act,1948 (11 & 12 Geo. 6. C. 58) s. 23 (1) is not complete untilsentence has been passed or   the offender has been  orderedto be discharged (R.	 v. Grant (1951) 1 K. B. 500).The  trial of the appellant therefore could not be  said  tohave  been  concluded  on  July 28, 1952  and  even  on	 theSeptember  26, 1952, assuming for the sake of argument	thatthe effective commencement of the impugned Act could not  besaid  to  have	come  about  until  the	 Special  Judge	 wasappointed  by  the State Government by notification  in	 theOfficial   Gazette.   This  contention	of   the   appellanttherefore is in any event devoid of substance.	We are awarethat in cases like the present one, the provisions containedin S. 10 of the impugned Act would work to the prejudice  ofthe  appellant in that he would be subjected to	 a  re-trialbefore	the Special Judge having jurisdiction over the	caseinvolving  a re-hearing of the whole case with 40  witnessesto be examined and 226 documents to be exhibited.  The	timewhich  would  have  to	be  spent,  the	 anxiety  which	 theappellant would have to undergo, the expenses which he Wouldhave  to  make	in the matter of his  defence  by  competentcounsel	 and the possibility Which he would have to face  ofthe  Special  Judge trying the same coming to  a  conclusiondifferent695from  the  one which was reached by the	 learned  PresidencyMagistrate  are all considerations which would have made  usconsider  his case very sympathetically and try to find	 outways and means whereby he would be saved these troubles	 andtribulations.	The  words  of s. 10  of  the  impugned	 Acthowever	 are very clear and categorical and are not  capableof being construed in any other manner except that all casestriable by the Special Judges which were pending immediatelybefore	the  commencement  of the impugned  Act	 before	 anymagistrate must be forwarded for trial to the Special  Judgehaving jurisdiction over such cases, the magistrates  havingcognizance  of	the same and trying them being	divested  ofjurisdiction  to  proceed  further with	 the  trial  thereofimmediately  after  the commencement of the Act.   The	onlypersons	 who  were invested with jurisdiction to  try  thesecases  after the commencement of the impugned Act  were	 theSpecial	 Judges	 having	 jurisdiction  over  the  same	 andwhatever Was done by the magistrates thereafter was  withoutjurisdiction  and  void.   The	case  of  the  appellant  isunfortunate.  For ought we know the Special Judge trying himwould  acquit  him  of the offence with which  he  has	beencharged	 in  the  same	manner	as  the	 learned  PresidencyMagistrate himself did, but there is no escape from the factthat  he  will	have  to face a	 re-trial  and	undergo	 theexpenses and anxiety in defending himself over again.We have therefore come to the conclusion that the order	 forre-trial of the appellant made by the High Court was correctand  the appeal must be dismissed.  We hope and	 trust	thatthe re-trial before the Special Judge will be conducted withall  possible  dispatch and the trial will be  concluded  asearly  as  possible.   The  appeal  will  accordingly  standdismissed.Appeal dismissed.696