PETITIONER:D.   S. GAREWAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/12/1958BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  512		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 792 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1967 SC 212	 (26) R	    1968 SC 754	 (20) RF	    1970 SC 150	 (11) RF	    1973 SC1461	 (450,566) RF	    1975 SC 446	 (6) R	    1982 SC1126	 (9,11) R	    1983 SC 937	 (32) F	    1985 SC 421	 (26)ACT:       All-India  Services-Act	passed by  provisional	Parliament-       Constitutional  validity-Presidents'  power  of	adaptation-       Parliament,  if	authorised  to delegate	 power	to  Central       Government-Rules,   validity  of-Institution   of   enquiry-       Competence  of the State Government All-India  Services	Act       (LXI of 1951), ss. 3, 4-- All India Services (Discipline and       Appeal) Rules, r.5 --Constitution of India, Arts. 312, 392.HEADNOTE:The  point for determination in this appeal was whether	 theAll  India  Services  Act, (LXI of  1951),  enacted  by	 theprovisional   Parliament,  was	a   constitutionally   validlegislation.   As  there  was  only  one  House	 during	 thetransitional period, the President in exercise of his powersunder  Art. 392 of the Constitution passed the	Constitution(Removal of Difficulties) Order No. II, on January 26, 1950,and  made,  amongst  others, an adaptation  of	Art.  312(1)omitting  the following therefrom,-" XXX if the	 Council  ofStates has declared by resolution supported by not less thantwo-thirds  of	the members present and voting	that  it  isnecessary or expedient in the national interest to do so XXX".  The	 appellant, who was appointed to the  Indian  PoliceService	 in 1949, held the post of Superintendent of  Policein  the	 Punjab in 1957 when he was  reverted  as  AssistantSuperintendent	of  Police  and	 informed  that	 action	 wasproposed to be taken against him under r. 5 of the All IndiaServices  (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1955, framed  unders. 3 Of the All India Services Act, (LXI of 1951).  He	was,thereafter,  placed  under  suspension and  an	Officer	 wasdirected  to  hold a departmental enquiry against  him.	  Onreceipt	 of  notice of the said enquiry, he moved  the	HighCourt under Art. 226 of the Constitution and challenged	 theconstitutional	validity of the Act and the legality of	 theenquiry.   The	High Court held against him and	 hence	thisappeal.	  It was contended on behalf of the  appellant,	 (1)that the President had exceeded his power under Art. 392  inamending  Art.	312  in	 the  way  he  did;  (2)  that	 theprovisional Parliament was incompetent to enact the impugnedAct as there was no compliance with the condition  precedentto  such  an Act being passed under Art. 312; (3)  that	 theRules were repugnant to Art. 312 as they were made at a timewhen  the  adaptation was no longer in force; (4)  that	 theParliament  had no authority to delegate its function  underArt. 312 to the Central Government (5) that, at any rate, S.3  Of the Act was vitiated by excessive delegation  and	 (6)that the Punjab Government had no authority under the  Rulesto institute the proceedings.			       793Held,  that the contentions were all without  substance	 andmust be rejected.The  power  given to the President by Art. 392 Of  the	Con-stitution was wide enough to enable him to make any  adapta-tion  by  way  of  modification,  addition  or	omission  heconsidered   necessary	or  expedient  with  respect  to   aparticular  Article and if he did so in one way and not	 theother, it could not be said that he had exceeded his  power.As  the adaptation of Art. 312 by omission of the  conditionprecedent was thus valid, no question of any compliance withit  could  arise and the provisional  Parliament  was  quitecompetent, to pass the impugned Act.Sankari	 Prasad	 Singh Deo v. Union of India  and  State  ofBihar, [1952] S.C.R. 89, held inapplicable.The reappearance of the omitted part of Art. 312 before	 theframing	 of  the Rules by the Central Government  under	 theAct,  could  in no way affect their validity since  the	 Actitself	was  valid  and a permanent measure  and  the  Rulesderived their force from the Act.It  was well settled that the Legislature was  competent  todelegate  to other authorities the power to frame  rules  tocarry  out  the	 purposes  of the  law	made  by  it.	Suchdelegation  could  also be made to  an	executive  authoritywithin certain limits.Re The Delhi Laws Act, 1912, [1951] S.C.R. 747 and RajnarainSingh  v.  The	Chairman,  Patna  Administration  Committee,Patna, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 290, relied on.Use of such expressions as " Parliament may by law provide "or " Parliament may by law confer " by the Constitution	 didnot  necessarily mean that delegation was  wholly  excluded.It would be a matter for determination in each case  whetherthe intention was that the entire provisions were to be madeby law without recourse to any rules framed under the  powerof   delegation.    The	 numerous  and	 varied	  provisionscontemplated  by  Art. 312 made it impossible to  hold	thatthey  were  all intended to be enacted as  statute  law	 andnothing	 was to be delegated to the  executive	authorities.It  was not correct to suggest that the Article laid down  amandate prohibiting Parliament from delegating authority  tothe  Central Government to frame rules for  the	 recruitmentand conditions of All-India Services.Nor  was there any substance in the contention that S. 3  Ofthe  Act was vitiated by excessive delegation of  power	 andthe  Act did not lay down any policy.  Section 4 of the	 Actread  with  s.	3(2) Of the Act showed	that  there  was  nodelegation of power to the Central Government under s.	3(1)Of  the Act in excess of what was justified by	the  specialcircumstances of the case.There  was  no	basis for the contention  that	the  CentralGovernment and not the Punjab Government could institute theenquiry.  Rule 5 Of the Rules showed that the enquiry was tobe initiated in all cases by the Government under which	 the100794Officer	  concerned  served,  although	the  punishment	  asrequired by Rule 4(1) might have to be ultimately imposed bythe Central Government.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTiON: Civil Appeal No. 426 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly  30,  1958,  of the Punjab High  Court  in	 Civil	WritApplication No. 732 of 1958.N.C. Chatterjee, I. M. Lal and B. P. Maheshwari, for  theappellant.S.M.  Sikri, Advocate-General for the State,  of  Punjab,Mohinder  Singh Pannum, Additional Advocate-General for	 theState of Punjab and D. Gupta, for respondent No. 1.B. Sen and T. M. Sen, for the Intervener.1958.  December 11.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyWANCHOO, J.-This appeal by special leave raises the questionof the constitutionality of the All-India Services Act, (LXIof  1951) (hereinafter called the Act).	 The  appellant	 wasappointed to the Indian Police Service on October 1.,  1949,and  posted  to	 the State of Punjab.	He  held  charge  asSuperintendent	of  Police  in	various	 districts  but	 wasreverted  as  Assistant Superintendent of Police  in  August1957, and was eventually Posted to Dharamsala in March 1958.In  the same month he was informed that it was	proposed  totake action against him under r. 5 of the All-India Services(Discipline  and Appeal) Rules, 1955, (herein. after  calledthe Rules), framed under s. 3 of the Act.  He was thereafter-placed	 under	suspension under r. 7 of the  Rules  pendingdisciplinary  proceedings  against  him,  and  Shri  K.	  L.Bhudiraja  S.  was  appointed enquiry officer  to  hold	 thedepartmental enquiry against him.  Notice was issued to	 himby   the  Enquiry  Officer  in	July  1958.   He   thereuponimmediately  made  an  application under  Art.	226  of	 theConstitution  before the Punjab High Court  challenging	 theconstitutionality of the Act and the legality of the enquiryagainst	 him.	The application was dismissed  on  July	 30,1958, and his application for a certificate to appeal795to this Court was dismissed next day.  Thereupon he came  tothis Court and was granted special leave.Shri  Chatterjee appearing for the appellant has raised	 thefollowing six points in support of the appeal :(1), The amendment made by the President in Art. 312 of	 theConstitution  by virtue of his power under Art. 392  by	 theConstitution (Removal of Difficulties) Order No. II of	26thJanuary,  1950, was in excess of the power conferred on	 himunder Art. 392;(2)It  was  not within the competence of  the  provisionalParliament  to	enact  the  Act in 1951,  as  there  was  nocompliance with the condition precedent to such an Act beingpassed under Art. 312;(3)The	Rules  when promulgated in 1955 were bad  as  theywere  repugnant	 to Art. 312 as the amendment  made  by	 thePresident  by  the Constitution	 (Removal  of  Difficulties)Order No. 11 had ceased to have force and Art. 312 stood  in1955 as originally enacted in the Constitution ;(4)Art.	 312  laid a mandate on Parliament to make  a  lawregulating the recruitment and conditions of service of all-India  services	 created under that Article  and  Parliamentcould not delegate this function to the Central	 Government,and, therefore, s. 3 of the Act was invalid;(5)In  any event, the delegation made by s. 3 of  the  Actwas  excessive	and, therefore, section 3 should  be  struckdown; and(6)The	Punjab	Government has no authority  to	 institutethese proceedings under the Rules. Re. 1, 2 & 3.These  three  points  may conveniently	be  taken  together.Article	 392-  provides	 that "the President  may,  for	 thepurpose	 of  removing  any  difficulties,  particularly	  inrelation  to  the  transition from  the	 provisions  of	 theGovernment  of	India Act, 1935, to the provisions  of	thisConstitution, by order direct that this Constitution  shall,during	such period as may be specified in the	order,	haveeffect	subject	 to  such adaptations,	whether	 by  way  ofmodification, addition or796omission,  as  he may deem to be necessary  or	expedient  ;provided  that no such order shall be made after  the  firstmeeting	 of Parliament duly constituted under Chapter 11  ofPart V ". The purpose of this provision	 is obvious from thevery words in which it was made.  Further Art. 379  providedthat  "	 until	both Houses of	Parliament  have  been	dulyconstituted and summoned to meet for the first session underthe provisions of this Constitution, the body functioning asthe   Constituent   Assembly  of  the  Dominion	  of   Indiaimmediately  before  the commencement of  this	Constitutionshall  be the provisional Parliament and shall exercise	 allthe  powers  and  perform all the duties  conferred  by	 theprovisions  of this Constitution on Parliament ".  As  therewas  only  one House during the transitional  period,  therewere  bound  to be difficulties in the	application  of	 theConstitution,  which  envisaged	 a  bicameral	legislature.Consequently, the President passed the Constitution (Removalof Difficulties) Order No. II on January 26, 1950, by  whichamong  other adaptations, he made an adaptation in Art.	 312also, to this effect:-"In clause (1), omit 'if the Council of States has  declaredby  resolution supported by not less than two-thirds of	 themembers present and voting that it is necessary or expedientin the national interest so to do".This  order  was  to  come into force at  once	and  was  tocontinue  until	 both  Houses of Parliament  had  been	dulyconstituted and summoned to meet for the first session underthe  provisions of the Constitution.  After removal  of	 theomitted words, Art. 312 read as follows:-" (1) Notwithstanding anything in Part XI, Parliament may bylaw  provide  for  the creation of  one	 or  more  all-Indiaservices common to the Union and the States, and subject  tothe   other  provisions	 of  this  Chapter,   regulate	 therecruitment,  and  the	conditions  of	service	 of  personsappointed, to any such service.(2)The	 services  known  at  the  commencement	 of   thisConstitution as the Indian Administrative Service797and the Indian Police Service shall be deemed to be servicescreated by Parliament under this article."It is urged that though the President undoubtedly had  powerto  make adaptations, he exceeded that power inasmuch as  heomitted the words mentioned above from Art. 312	 altogether.It is suggested that the adaptation would have been  proper,if in Art. 312, as it originally stood in the  Constitution,the words " Council of States " had been substituted by	 thewords  "  provisional  Parliament ", so that  instead  of  aresolution  of	the Council of States a	 resolution  of	 theprovisional  Parliament	 would have been necessary  for	 thecreation  and  regulation of recruitment and  conditions  ofservice of an all-India service common to the Union and	 theStates.	  Reliance in this connection is placed	 on  SankariPrasad	Singh Deo v. Union of India and State of Bihar	(1),where  dealing with an adaptation made in Art. 368,  by	 thesame order, this Court observed that " the adaptation leavesthe  requirement  of a special majority untouched ".  It  isurged  that if the President had made the adaptation in	 theway  suggested by learned counsel that would have  left	 therequirement of a resolution supported by requisite  majorityuntouched  and	would  have been within	 the  power  of	 thePresident;  but inasmuch as the entire portion	was  omittedthe  President had exceeded his power.	It is enough to	 saythat Sankari Prasad Singh's case (1) does not lay down	thatif  the adaptation in Art. 368 had been made in	 some  othermanner	it  would have been  invalid  and  unconstitutional.Reference  to the fact that adaptation left the	 requirementof  a special majority untouched was made obviously for	 thepurpose	 of  emphasising that there was no  real  ground  ofgrievance and not for indicating that in the absence of	 theretention  of that provision the adaptation would have	beenbad.  Indeed, it was pointed out in that 'case that Art. 392was  widely expressed and an order could be made under	thatArticle	 for the purpose of removing any difficulties.	 Thenature	of the adaptation to be made is also equally  widelyexpressed and it may be by way of(1)[1952] S.C.R. 89.798modification, addition or omission.  In the case of Art. 368the  President	thought it necessary or expedient  that	 theadaptation  should be by modification.	In the case of	Art.312, however, he thought it necessary or expedient that	 theadaptation  should  be by way of omission of  certain  wordsfrom  that Article.  The power given to the President  underArt. 392 was very wide and it-cannot be said that he  -couldmake  the adaptation in one way and not in another.  It	 wasleft to him to consider whether the adaptation should be  byway of modification, addition or omission; and if he thoughtit  necessary  or  expedient with respect  to  a  particularArticle	 that  adaptation should be by way  of	omission  itcannot	be  said that he had exceeded his  power.   We	are,therefore,  of	opinion	 that the  Act	cannot	be  declaredunconstitutional  on  the  ground  that	 the  President	 hadexceeded  his  power under Art. 392 and that if he  had	 notdone  so  a resolution of the provisional  Parliament  wouldhave  been necessary with the requisite majority before	 anylaw could be undertaken to regulate the recruitment and	 theconditions of service of an all-India service.Once it is held that the adaptation made by the President inArt. 312 was within his power, there is very little left  inthe  other two points raised by Mr. Chatterjee.	 It is	saidthat  the provisional Parliament was not competent  to	passthe Act in 1951, because the condition precedent for passingsuch  a law had not been, as required by Art. 312,  compliedwith.  This means in other words that a resolution with	 therequisite  majority had Dot been passed by  the	 provisionalParliament; but this condition would not be there once thosewords  were  validly removed by the order of  the  Presidentunder  Art. 392, and the provisional Parliament	 would	havepower  to pass the Act without any resolution  being  passedbefore the law was made.The further argument that the Rules were promulgated in 1955when  the  words  omitted by the  Constitution	(Removal  ofDifficulties)  Order No. II had reappeared in Art.  312	 andwere, therefore, repugnant to Art. 312 inasmuch as there wasno resolution of the799Council	 of States, as required by that Article, is, in	 ouropinion,  completely  baseless.	 The reappearance  of  thesewords  in Art. 312 has nothing to do with the vires  of	 theRules.	 The rules were framed under the power given to	 theCentral Government by the Act, and if the Act was valid whenit  was passed, the Central Government would have  power  toframe  rules  under it, as it is a permanent  measure.	 TheRules framed in 1955, therefore, cannot be challenged on theground	that the omitted words reappeared in Art. 312.	 TheRules derive their force from the Act and the form in  whichArt.  312  emerged,  after  the	 Constitution  (Removal	  ofDifficulties) Order No. 11 came to an end in 1952, would nothave any effect on the Rules.  There is no force, therefore,in any of these three points, and we reject them. Re. 4.It  is	contended  that	 Art. 312 lays	down  a	 mandate  onParliament to make the law itself regulating the recruitmentand  the  conditions of service of all-India  services,	 andtherefore,  it	was not open to Parliament to  delegate	 anypart of the work relating to such regulation to the  CentralGovernment  by	framing Rules for the purpose.	Now,  it  iswell  settled that it is competent for, the  legislature  todelegate  to other authorities the power to frame  rules  tocarry out the purposes of the law made by it was so held  bythe  majority of Judges in Re The Delhi Laws Act, 1912	(1).The Delhi Laws case was, further examined in Rajnarain Singhv. The Chairman.  Patna Administration Committee, Patna (2),and  the  delegation  was  held	 to  go	 to  the  extent  ofauthorising  an executive authority to modify the  law	madebut not in any essential feature.  It was also observed thatwhat  constitutes essential feature cannot be enunciated  ingeneral	 terms.	 It is, therefore, clear that delegation  oflegislative  functions can be made to executive	 authoritieswithin	certain limits.	 In this case s. 3 of the  Act	laysdown  that  the Central Government may,	 after	consultationwith the Governments of the States concerned, make rules forthe regulation of(1) [1951] S.C.R. 747.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 290.800recruitment  and conditions of service of persons  appointedto  an all-India service.  It also lays down that all  rulesmade  under  this section shall be laid for  not  less	thanfourteen  days before Parliament as soon as  possible  afterthey  are made, and shall be subject to such  modifications,whether	 by  way of repeal or amendment, as  Parliament	 maymake  on a motion made during the session in which they	 areso  said.   Mr.	 Chatterjee  contends  that  no	  delegationwhatsoever  was	 possible  under  Art.	312  and  that	 theConstitution  required that Parliament should  itself  framethe entire law relating to the regulation of recruitment andthe  conditions of service of all-India services.  We  have,therefore, to see whether there is anything in the words  ofArt.  312  which takes away the usual power  of	 delegation,which ordinarily resides in the legislature.  Stress in thisconnection  has been laid on the words " Parliament  may  bylaw provide " appearing in Art. 312.  It is urged that thesewords  should  be read to mean that there is  no  scope	 fordelegation  in a law made under Art. 312.  Our attention  inthis  connection was drawn to words used in Art. 245,  whichare " Parliament may make laws ". It is said that the  wordsused  in Art. 312 are in a special form, which	import	thatParliament must provide by law for regulation of recruitmentand  the conditions of service and cannot delegate any	partof it to other authorities.  Reference was also made to	 thewords  used in Art. 138 (1), (namely, Parliament may by	 lawconfer);  Art.	138  (2), (namely,  Parliament	may  by	 lawprovide); Art. 139, (namely, Parliament may by law  confer);and  Art.  148	(3),  (namely,	as  may	 be  determined	  byParliament  by	law).  In contrast to  these  Articles,	 ourattention  was drawn to the words of Art. 173 (c),  (namely,by  or under any law made by Parliament), and Art. 293	(2),(namely,  by  or under any law made by Parliament).   It  isurged that when the Constitution uses the words " may by lawconfer " or " may by law provide ", no delegation whatsoeveris  possible.	We are of opinion that these  words  do	 notnecessarily  exclude delegation and it will have to be	seenin  each case how far the intention of the Constitution	 wasthat801the entire provision should be made by law without  recourseto any rules framed under the power of delegation.  Let	 us,therefore, examine Art. 312 from this angle, and see if	 theintention  of  the  Constitution  was  that  regulation	  ofrecruitment  and  conditions  of  service  to  an  all-Indiaservice	 should	 only  be  by law and  there  should  be  nodelegation  of	any  power to frame  rules.   Regulation  ofrecruitment and conditions of service requires numerous	 andvaried rules, which may have to be changed from time to timeas the exigencies of public service require.  This could notbe unknown to the Constitution makers and it is not possibleto  hold  that the intention of the  Constitution  was	thatthese  numerous	 and  varied  rules  should  be	 framed	  byParliament  itself  and that any amendment  of	these  ruleswhich may be required to meet the difficulties of day-to-dayadministration	should also be made by Parliament only	withall  the  attending  delay  which  passing  of	 legislationentails.   We  are,  therefore,	 of  opinion  that  in	 thecircumstances  of  Art.	 312  it could	not  have  been	 theintention  of the Constitution that the numerous and  variedprovisions  that  have to be made in order to  regulate	 therecruitment  and  the  conditions of  service  of  all-Indiaservices  should all be enacted as statute law	and  nothingshould	be delegated to the executive authorities.   In	 thecircumstances we are of opinion that the words used in	Art.312  in the context in which they have been used do not	 ex-clude the delegation of power to frame rules for  regulationof  recruitment	 and  the conditions of	 service  of  -Indiaservices.  We cannot read Art. 312 as laying down a  mandateprohibiting  Parliament	 from delegating  authority  to	 theCentral	 Government to frame rules for the  recruitment	 andthe  conditions	 of  service  of  all-India  services.	 We,therefore, reject this contention.Re. 5.The  argument in this connection is that even if  delegationis  possible, there was excessive delegation in	 this  case,and, therefore, the Act should be struck down.	The Act is ashort, Act of four sections.  The101802first section deals with the short title, the second sectiondefines the expression " all-India Service ", and the  thirdsection gives power to the Central Government to frame rulesfor regulation of recruitment and ,the conditions of serviceafter  consultation  with  the	Governments  of	 the  Statesconcerned,  and lays down that all rules so framed shall  belaid  before  Parliament  and  shall  be  subject  to	suchmodifications  as Parliament may make.	Section 4  which  isimportant is in these terms-" All rules in force immediately before the commencement  ofthis  Act  and	applicable to  an  all-India  service  shallcontinue to be in force and shall be deemed to be rules madeunder this Act."It is urged that this Act lays down no legislative policy orstandard  at  all  and everything is  left  to	the  CentralGovernment.   In this connection reference was made  to	 thefollowing observations of Mukherjea, J. (as he was then), inRe The Delhi Laws Act, 1912 (1)at p. 982"  The	essential  legislative	function  consists  in	 thedetermination  or choosing of the legislative policy and  offormally  enacting  that  policy  into	a  binding  rule  ofconduct.   It  is open to the legislature to  formulate	 thepolicy	as broadly and with as little or as much details  asit  thinks  proper  and	 it may delegate  the  rest  of	 thelegislative  work to a subordinate authority who  will	workout  the details within the framework of that policy.  I  Solong as a policy is laid down and a standard established  bystatute no constitutional delegation of legislative power isinvolved in leaving to selected instrumentalities the makingof  subordinate	 rules	within	prescribed  limits  and	 thedetermination  of  facts  to which  the	 legislation  is  toapply'."It  is	said  that  in this case  Parliament  did  not	evenexercise  the essential legislative function inasmuch as  itdid  not  determine  or choose the  legislative	 policy	 andformally  enact that policy into a binding rule of  conduct.Apparently, if one looks at the Act, there seems to be	someforce  in this contention.  But a close reading of s.  4  ofthe Act and its scope, purpose and(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 747.803effect	will show that this is not a case where	 the  legis-lature	has  failed to lay down the legislative	 policy	 andformally  to enact that policy into a binding rule  of	con-duct.	What does s. 4 in fact provide ?  Undoubtedly  therewere  rules in force immediately before the Commencement  ofthe Act which governed the two all India services covered byit and the legislature adopted those rules and said in s.  4that  they shall continue to be in force.  Thus though s.  4appears	 on  the  face of it as one short  section  of	fourlines,	it is in effect a statutory provision  adopting	 allthe  rules  which were in force at the commencement  of	 theAct, governing the recruitment and the conditions of serviceof  the two all-India services.	 The section certainly	laysdown  that the rules already in force shall be taken  to  berules  under  the Act; but that was necessary  in  order  toenable	the Central Government under s. 3 to add to,  alter,vary  and  amend those rules.  There is no  doubt,  however,that  s. 4 did lay down that the existing rules will  governthe  two all-India services in the matter of  regulation  ofrecruitment  and conditions of service, and in so far as  itdid  so	 it determined the legislative policy and set  up  astandard  for the Central Government to follow and  formallyenacted it into a binding rule of conduct.  Further, by s. 3the Central Government was given the power to frame rules infuture	which  may have the effect of adding  to,  altering,varying	 or  amending  the  rules accepted  under  s.  4  asbinding.   Seeing that the rules would govern the  all-Indiaservices  common  to the Central Government  and  the  StateGovernment  provision was made by s. 3 that rules should  beframed only after consulting the State Governments.  At	 thesame time Parliament took care to see that these rules	werelaid  on  the table of Parliament for fourteen	days  beforethey  were  to	come into force and  they  were	 subject  tomodification,  whether	by way of repeal or amendment  on  amotion	made by Parliament during the session in which	theyare so laid.  This makes it perfectly clear that  Parliamenthas in no way abdicated its authority, but is keeping strictvigilance and control over its delegate.  Therefore, readings. 4 along with804s.   3(2)  of the Act it cannot be said in the special	cir-cumstances of this case that there was excessive  delegationto the Central Government by s. 3(1).  We are, therefore, ofopinion that the Act cannot be struck down on the ground  ofexcessive delegation.Re. 6.The  last  contention is that the Punjab Government  has  noauthority  to institute these proceedings under	 the  Rules.It  would  be necessary in this connection to refer  to	 theRules.	 Rule 3 provides for penalties, which are  seven  innumber.	 Rule 4 provides for the authorities, who can imposethe   penalties,  and  three  of  the	penalties,   namely,dismissal,  removal  or compulsory retirement, can  only  beimposed	 by  the Central Government, while  the	 other	fourpenalties  can be imposed by the State Government.   Rule  5provides the procedure for imposing penalties.	The argumentis that as in this case the charge against the appellant  isserious,  he  is  likely  to  be  dismissed  or	 removed  orcompulsorily retired, and therefore, the Central  Governmentshould	have  instituted enquiry in this case.	 We  are  ofopinion	 that there is no force in this contention.  In	 thefirst  place, it cannot be postulated at the very outset  ofthe  enquiry whether there would be any punishment  At	all,and even if there is going to be punishment, what particularpunishment  out	 of  the seven mentioned in r.	3  would  beimposed.   Therefore,  even  on	 the  assumption  that	 theGovernment  which  has to impose the  punishment  must	alsoinstitute the enquiry, it cannot be said at this stage	thatthe Punjab Government which can impose at least four out  ofseven  penalties is not the proper Government  to  institutethe  enquiry.  In the second place, a perusal of r. 5  showsthat  the intention is that the enquiry would be  institutedby the Government under which the officer is serving even incases  where  the penalty is to be imposed  by	the  CentralGovernment.   Rule  4(2)  shows	 that so  far  as  the	fourpenalties which could be imposed by the State Government areconcerned,  the	 institution  of  the  enquiry	is  by	 theGovernment  under whom such officer was serving at the	timeof  commission	of such act or omission	 which	renders	 himliable805to  punishment.	  Rule 2(b) defines  ,Government",  and	 thethird clause thereof lays down that in the case of a  memberof  service  serving  in connection with the  affairs  of  aState, the Government would be the Government of that State.The appellant was serving in connection with the affairs  ofthe  State  of	Punjab,	 and  in  his  case  therefore	 theGovernment for the purpose of r. 5 which provides  procedurefor  imposing penalties would be the Punjab Government.	  Itis  the Punjab Government, therefore, which could  take	 thesteps  provided	 in  r. 5. Rules 5(1) to  5(8)	provide	 theprocedure  for	such enquiries and the word "  government  "used  in  these	 sub-rules means in the	 present  case,	 thePunjab	 Government,  for  the	appellant   was-serving	  inconnection  with the affairs of the State of  Punjab.	Rule5(9)  provides	for what is to happen after the	 enquiry  isover,  and  it	lays down that after the  enquiry  has	beencompleted and after the punishing authority has arrived at aprovisional  conclusion	 in  regard to	the  penalty  to  beimposed,  if  the penalty proposed  is	dismissal,  removal,compulsory  retirement or reduction in rank, the  member  ofthe  service  charged shall be supplied with a copy  of	 thereport of enquiry and be given a further opportunity to showcause  why  the proposed penalty should not  be	 imposed  onhim.,  The very fact that in this rule the word	 Government'is not used and instead the words punishing authority '	 areused shows that the question Of punishment arises after	 theenquiry	 is  over  and the relevant  Government	 would	thenconsider  that question; and if punishment is to be  one  ofthe  three  provided in r. 4(1) the report  of	the  enquiryofficer would have to be forwarded to the Central Governmentso  that  it may determine the	provisional  punishment	 andcommunicate  it	 to  the officer concerned  along  with	 thereport of the enquiry officer to comply with the  provisionsof Art. 311(2).	 So far as the institution of the enquiry isconcerned,  r. 5 contemplates that it will be instituted  bythe  Government of the State in connection with the  affairsof which the officer is serving.  In this case the appellantwas  serving in connection with the affairs of the State  ofPunjab, and, therefore,806the Punjab Government would have authority to institute	 theenquiry against him.  The Central Government would only comeinto the picture after the enquiry is concluded and if it isdecided to impose one of the three punishments mentioned  inr. 4(1).  This contention must also be rejected.We, therefore, dismiss the appeal with costs to the State ofPunjab.				     Appeal dismissed.