PETITIONER:1340 SHRI CHINTAMAN RAO & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:18/02/1958BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1958 AIR  388		  1958 SCR 1340ACT:Worker-Test for determining-Sattedars contracting to  supplybidis  to  bidi	 factory and coolies  of  such	Sattedars-Ifworkers	 in the factory-Factories Act (LXIII of	 1948),	 SS.2(1), 62, 63 and 92.HEADNOTE:The  appellant was the manager of a bidi factory  which	 hadcontracts  with	 certain independent contractors,  known  asSattedars, for the supply of bidis.  The Sattedars undertookto  supply  the	 bidis by manufacturing them  in  their	 ownfactories  or by entrusting the work to third parties, a'  aprice  to.  be	paid by the management	after  delivery	 andapproval.   The Inspector of Factories found working in	 theappellant's factory certain Sattedars and their coolies	 whohad  come  to  deliver	bides  manufactured  by	 them.	 Theappellant   was	 prosecuted  and  convicted  under  s.	 92,Factories Act for violation of the provisions of ss. 62	 and63 for failure to maintain the register of adult workers andfor  allowing  the workers to work in  the  factory  withoutmaking	beforehand  the entries of their attendance  in	 theregister :Held, that the Sattedars and their coolies were not  workerswithin the definition in S. 2(1) of the Act and,  therefore,the  noninclusion  of  their names in the  register  or	 theabsence	 of  entries  in  regard to  them  therein  did	 notconstitute an offence under s. 92 of the Act.  To  determinewhether a person employed is a worker the test is whether ornot the employer had control and supervision over the mannerin  which the work was to be done.  The Sattedars  were	 notunder  the  control  of the  factory  management  and  couldmanufacture  the bidis wherever they pleased.	The  coolieswere  neither employed by the management directly  nor	werethey employed by the management through the Sattedars.Dharangadhara  Chemical Works Ltd. v. State  of	 Saurashtra,[1957] S.C.R. 152, applied.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 93  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  16  1954,  of the former  Nagpur  High  Court  inCriminal  Revision  No.	 295 of 1954,  arising	out  of	 thejudgment  and  order  dated March 8,  1954,  of	 the  SecondAdditional  Sessions Judge at Sagar in Criminal	 Appeal	 No.368 of 1953, against  the order dated August 5, 1953, of theJudge Magistrate, Sagar, in Criminal Case No, 146 of 1953.1341N.   C. Chatterjee and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellants.I. N. Shroff, for the respondent.1958.  February 18.  The following Judgment of the Court wasdelivered bySUBBA  RAO  J.-This  appeal by	Special	 Leave	is  directedagainst the Order of the High Court of Judicature at  Nagpurand  raises  the  question of construction of  some  of	 theprovisions of the Factories Act (LXIII of 1948) (hereinafterreferred to as the Act).  Before posing the questions raisedit would be convenient and useful at the outset to state thefacts  either  found by the High Court or  admitted  by	 theparties.Messrs.	  Brijlal  Manilal  and Company is  a  bidi  factorysituated in Sagar.  The 1st Appellant, Chintamanrao, is	 theManaging-Partner  of  the  firm	 while	the  2nd  appellant,Kantilal,  is its active Manager.  The Company	manufacturesbidis.	The process of manufacture, so far as is relevant tothe question raised, is carried out in two stages.The first stage: The management enters into a contract	withindependent contractors, known as Sattedars, for the  supplyof bidis locally.  The documents embodying the terms of	 thecontract entered into by the Sattedars were not produced  inthe case.  But the terms of the contract are not in dispute.The Management supplies tobacco to the Sattedars and in somecases  bidi leaves.  Some of the Sattedars maintain a  smallfactory	 where	they  get  bidis  manufactured	by  engagingcoolies.   Others give tobacco and bidi leaves to  outsiderswho  prepare bidis in their houses.  After bidis are  rolledin the Sattedars collect the bidis so manufactured and	takethem  to the factory directly or through coolies where	theyare sorted and checked by the workers in, the factory.	 Theselected or approved bidis are separately packed in  bundlesof  10 and 25 and taken by the Sattedars or the	 coolies  ingauze  trays to tandul and left there.	The rejected  bidis,commonly  known	 as  I chhant' are again  rebundled  by	 theSattedars and delivered to the factory.1342The   management  pays	the  Sattedars	the  cost   of	 themanufacture  of bidis after deducting therefrom the cost  oftobacco	 supplied to them.  Thereafter the second  stage  ofthe process of the manufacture begins in the factory.  It iscarried	 out  exclusively by the labourers employed  in	 thefactory.   It  consists of warming of bidis to	give  taste,wrapping  them	in  tissue  papers,  labelling	and  finallybundling them in the 'Pudas'.  The finished product is	thenmarketed.   From  the  aforesaid  description  of  the	dualprocess	 of  manufacture  of bidis it  is  manifest  that  aSattedar  is only an independent contractor, who  undertakesto  do a specific job of work, i. e., the supply  of  bidis,directly or indirectly through his coolies, by manufacturingthem either in his own factory or by entrusting the work  tothird parties, at a price to be paid by the management afterdelivery and approval.	He (Sattedar) or his coolies neitherwork in the appellants' factory nor are they subject to	 thesupervision  or control of the appellants.  The	 coolies  orthe  third parties, to whom the work of making of  bidis  isentrusted  by the Sattedars, are employed by  the  Sattedarsand  are  paid by them.	 None of them works in	the  factorythough	they  bring  bidis to the factory  for	delivery  inaccordance  with the terms of the contract.  It may also  bepointed	 out that the factory employs workers who are  underthe direct control and supervision of the factory managementand  who  attend  to  the second  part	of  the	 process  ofmanufacture described above.  On December 9, 1952, Sri B. V.Desai,	the Inspector of Factories, Madhya Pradesh,  Nagpur,visited	 the  factory  at  5-30 p. m. At  the  time  of	 hisinspection he found the following persons in the factory1.   Pirbaksha, son of Amir.2.   Abdul Sagir, son of Sk.  Alam.3.   Deviprasad, son of Uddam.4.   Ramshankar, son of Mulchand.5.   Gopal, son of Mulchand.6.   Nirpat, son of Bhagirath.7.   Rameband, son of Gyan.8.   Gotiram, son of Lila.9.    Basodi, son of Gulu,			    1343Of the aforesaid persons, Deviprasad, Nirpat and Gotiram areSattedars   and	 the  rest  are	 coolies  employed  by	 theSattedars.   The  Inspector found the  first  seven  personssorting out bidis and packing them into bundles of 10 and 25in  the premises and the last two bringing the bidis to	 theroom  in jali for warming.  The said facts  are	 practicallyadmitted by some of the aforesaid persons, who gave evidencein  the	 case,	and they explained that	 they  came  to	 thefactory on that day for delivering the bidis manufactured bythem to the factory.Thereafter   the  Chief	 Inspector  of	Factories  filed   acomplaint  in  the  Court of  the  Judge-Magistrate,  Sagar,against	 the appellants for violation of the  provisions  ofss.  62 and 63 of the Act, under the former for	 failure  tomaintain  the  register	 of  adult  workers  with  all	 theprescribed  entries duly filled in and under the latter	 forallowing  the workers to work in the factory without  makingbeforehand  the entries of their attendance in the  registerof  adult workers.  The Judge-Magistrate, Sagar,  held	thatthe  appellants contravened the provisions of the  aforesaidsections  and on that finding convicted them under s. 92  ofthe Act and directed them to pay a fine of Rs. 50 and Rs. 25respectively.	On  appeal the	Second	Additional  SessionsJudge, Sagar, confirmed the conviction of the 2nd  appellantfor  contravening  the provisions of ss. 62 and 63  but	 setaside  that  of	 the 1st appellant in regard to	 s.  62	 butconfirmed the conviction for contravening s. 63 of the	Act.The  Revision Petition filed by the appellants in  the	HighCourt  of Judicature at Nagpur was dismissed.  As  aforesaidwith  Special  Leave of this Court, this  appeal  was  filedagainst the Order of the High Court.The  conflicting contentions of the parties may	 briefly  bestated.	  The  learned counsel for the	appellants  contendsthat a Sattedar is an independent contractor, who undertakesto  do	a  specific job of work for  other  persons  withoutsubmitting  himself  to their control, and that	 he  or	 hisemployee  is not a worker within the definition of s. 2	 (1)of the 'Act and therefore the appellants are not under	dutyto1344comply	with  the conditions of ss. 62 or 63 in	 respect  ofthem.  Whereas the learned Counsel for the State argues thatthe definition of the word 'worker' is comprehensive  enoughto  take  in all persons who work in  the  factory,  whetheremployed by the factory or not.The   answer   to  the	question  raised  turns	  upon	 theconstruction  of the relevant provisions of the	 Act.	Theyread:Section 62.  Register of adult workersThe  manager of every factory shall maintain a	register  ofadult workers, to be available to the Inspector at all timesduring	working hours, or when any work is being carried  onin the factory, showing-(a)  the name of each adult worker in the factory;(b)  the nature of his work;(e)  the group, if any, in which he is included(d)  where his group works on shifts, the relay towhich he is allotted;(e) such other particulars as may be prescribed:Provided  that,	 if  the Inspector is of  opinion  that	 anymuster roll or register maintained as part of the routine ofa factory gives in respect of any or all the workers in	 thefactory the particulars required under this section, he may,by  order  in  writing,	 direct that  such  muster  roll  orregister shall to the corresponding extent be maintained  inplace  of, and be treated as, the register of adult  workersin that factory.Section	 63.  Hours of work to correspond with notice  underSection 61 and register under Section 62.-No adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in	 anyfactory	 otherwise  than in accordance with  the  notice  ofperiods of work for adults displayed, in the factory and theentries made before-hand against his name in the register ofadult workers of the factory.Section 92.  General penalty for offences.Save  as  is otherwise expressly provided in  this  Act	 andsubject	 to  the  provisions of section 93,  if	 in,  or  inrespect of, any factory there is any contravention of any ofthe provisions of this Act or of any1345rule  made  thereunder	or of any  order  in  writing  giventhereunder,  the occupier and manager of the  factory  shalleach   be   guilty  of	an  offence  and   punishable	withimprisonment for a term which may extend to three months  orwith  fine which may extend to five hundred rupees  or	withboth,	and   if  the  contravention  is   continued   afterconviction, with a further fine which may extend to seventy-five  rupees for each day on which the contravention  is  socontinued. Section  2(1) worker' means a person employed, directly  orthrough	 any  agency,  whether	for wages  or  not,  in	 anymanufacturing  process,	 or  in cleaning  any  part  of	 themachinery or premises used for manufacturing process, or  inany other kind of work incidental to, or connected with, themanufacturing  process, or the subject of the  manufacturingprocess.Section	 2(m)  "factory" means any  premises  including	 theprecincts thereof-(i)  Whereon  ten  or  more workers  are  working,  or	wereworking	 on any day of the preceding twelve months,  and  inany  part of which a manufacturing process is being  carriedon with the aid of power, or is ordinarily so carried on, or(ii) Whereon  twenty  or more workers are working,  or	wereworking	 on any day of the preceding twelve months,  and  inany  part of which a manufacturing process is being  carriedon  without  the aid of power, or is ordinarily	 so  carriedon.............. .................. .Section	 2(n) "occupier " of a factory means the person	 whohas    ultimate	  control   over   the	 affairs   of	 thefactory....................................................The  gist  of  the  aforesaid  provisions  relevant  to	 thequestion  raised  may  be  stated thus:	 The  Manager  of  afactory-factory	 is  defined under the Act as  the  premiseswherein a specified number of workers are working and in anypart of which a manufacturing process is carried on, with orwithout the aid of power-shall maintain a register of  adultworkers	 working  in  that factory,  showing  the  necessaryparticulars mentioned in s. 62 of the Act.  No adult  workershall be required or allowed to work in any such1346factory	 otherwise  than in accordance with  the  notice  ofperiods of work for adults displayed in the factory and	 theentries made beforehand against his name in the register  ofadult workers of the factory.  If there is any contraventionof  the said provisions, the occupier, who is defined  as  aperson	who  has ultimate control over the  affairs  of	 thefactory,  and the manager are guilty of offences  punishableunder the Act.Admittedly  the names of the 9 persons, stated	supra,	werenot  entered in the register of adult workers maintained  bythe  factory.	Neither any notice of the  periods  of	workallotted  to  them  was displayed in  the  factory  nor	 anyentries made beforehand against their names in the  registerof adult workers of the factory.  The appellants, therefore,would have certainly contravened the provisions of the	Act,if, in fact, the said persons were workers in the factory asdefined Under the Act.This takes us to the consideration of the definition of	 theterm ' worker' under the Act.  'Worker' is defined to mean aperson employed, directly or through any agency, whether forwages  or not, in any manufacturing process.  It is  and  itcannot	 be  disputed  that  the  making  of  bidis   is   amanufacturing process.	But is a Sattedar a person 'employed',  directly  or through agency, within the meaning  of	 thedefinition " employed".	 The concept of employment  involves'three	ingredients: (1) employer (2) employee and  (3)	 thecontract  of employment.  The employer is one  who  employs,i.e.,  one who engages the services of other  persons.	 Theemployee  is  one  who	works for  another  for	 hire.	 Theemployment  is the contract of service between the  employerand the employee hereunder the employee agrees to serve	 theemployer subject to his control and supervision.  Can it  besaid  that a Sattedar is employed by the management  of	 thefactory	 to  serve  under it ? There is	 a  well  understooddistinction  between a contractor and a workman and  betweencontract  for service and contract of service.	In  Stroud'sJudicial Dictionary (Third Edition, Volume 1, Page 616)	 thedistinction1347between	 a contractor and a workman is brought out  in	boldrelief in the following manner:"  Of  course,	every person who  makes	 an  agreement	withanother for the doing of work is a contractor, in a  generalsense; but as used in Workmen's Compensation Act, 1897 (60 &61 Vict., c. 37), s. 4 "contractor" and "WORKMAN" "have cometo  have  a more restricted and	 distinctive  meaning,"	 and"contractor " means 'one who makes an agreement to carry outcertain work specified, but not on a contract of service'."The same idea is repeated in a different terminology thus.."  A  'contractor'  is a person who, in the  pursuit  of  anindependent business, undertakes to do specific jobs of workfor  other  persons,  without submitting  himself  to  theircontrol in respect to the details of the work ".There  is,  therefore,	a clear-cut  distinction  between  acontractor  and	 a  workman.  The identifying  mark  of	 thelatter	 is  that  he  should  be  under  the  control	 andsupervision of the employer in respect of the details of thework.	This Court in Dharangadhara Chemical Works  Ltd.  v.State of Saurashtra (1) in the context of the definition  of" workman " under the Industrial Disputes Act (XIV of  1947)made the following observations at page 157:" The essential condition of a person being a workman withinthe  terms of this definition is that he should be  employedto  do the work in that industry, that there should  be,  inother  words, an employment of his by the employer and	thatthere  should be the relationship between the  employer	 andhim as between employer and employee or master and  servant.Unless a person is thus employed there can be no question ofhis  being  a workman within the definition of the  term  ascontained in the Act."Elaborating the point further, Bhagwati J. who(I) [1957] S.C.R. 152.1711348delivered  the judgment on behalf of the Court proceeded  tostate:"The  test which is uniformly applied in order to  determinethe  relationship is the existence of a right of control  inrespect of the manner in which the work is to be done."After  considering the Case-law on the subject	the  learnedJudge restated the principle at page 160 thus:" The principle which emerges from these authorities is thatthe   prima  facie  test  for  the  determination   of	 therelationship between master and servant is the existence  ofthe  right in the master to supervise and control  the	workdone by the servant not only in the matter of directing whatwork  the servant is to do but also the manner in  which  heshall do his work, or to borrow the words of Lord Uthwatt atpage  23  in  Mersey Docks and Harbour Board  v.  Coggins  &Griffith  (Liverpool ) Ltd., and another ([1947] 1 A. C.  1,23),  "The  proper  test is whether or	not  the  hirer	 hadauthority  to control the manner of execution of the act  inquestion."After noticing the subsequent trend of decisions wherein  itis observed that the test of control is not one of universalapplication, the learned Judge expresses his view thus:"  The	correct method of approach, therefore, would  be  toconsider  whether  having regard to the nature of  the	workthere	 was   due   control   and   supervision   by	 theemployer............................. "There  is no reason why the test laid down by this Court  inthe  context  of  the  definition  of  'workman'  under	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act  of 1947,  cannot  be	 invoked  orapplied	 for  ascertaining whether a person  is	 a  'worker'under  the Act.	 If the test be applied, it is not  possibleto hold that Sattedars in the present case, having regard tothe  nature of the work under. taken by them and  the  termswhereunder  their  services were engaged, are  "  workers  "within the meaning of the definition under the Act.  It	 hasbeen  established in the present case that the	Sattedar  isonly an independent contractor and the agreement1349between	 the  management and the Sattedar is only  that	 theSattedar  should  receive tobacco from	the  management	 andsupply	them rolled in bidis for consideration.	 He  is	 notunder  the  control  of the factory management	and  he	 canmanufacture bidis wherever he pleases.	It is immaterial  tothe management whether he makes the bidis in his own factoryor  distributes tobacco to different individuals for  makingbidis  under a separate agreement entered into by  him	withthem.	 The  management  cannot  regulate  the	 manner	  ofdischarge  of his work.	 His liability is discharged by	 hissupplying  bidis  and delivering them in the  Factory.	 Theterms  of  the	contract  between  the	management  and	 theSattedar, as disclosed in the evidence, do not enjoin on thelatter	to work in the factory.	 His only obligation  is  todeliver	 bidis at the factory.	That would be an  obligationimposed	 on  any  contractor who undertakes  to	 supply	 anddeliver	 the goods to the other party.	We, therefore,	holdthat  the  Sattedars in this case were not employed  by	 themanagement as workers but were only independent	 contractorswho performed their part of the contract by making bidis anddelivering them at the factory.If the Sattedars, i. e., three out of the nine persons foundat  the factory, were not workers within the meaning of	 theAct, can it be said that the other persons, who were cooliesemployed  by the Sattedars to enable them to keep  up  theircontract with the management of the factory, were workers asdefined	 under	the Act?  A "worker"  under  the  definitionmeans a	  person  employed, directly or through any  agency.The words I directly or through any agency   indicate	thatthe employment is by the management directly or through somekind  of  employment agency and in either case	there  is  acontract  of employment between the management and the	per.sons employed.	Admittedly the coolies were not employed  bythe  management;  there was DO privity of  contract  betweenthem  and  the	management.  It is  not	 disputed  that	 thecoolies were not employed by the Sattedars for or on  behalfof the management of the factory.  They were employed by theSattedars on1350their own account and they paid them for the work  extractedfrom  them.  On the aforesaid facts it is obvious  that	 thecoolies	 were  not employed by the management  directly	 norwere  they employed by the management through the agency  ofSattedars.   If so, it follows that coolies employed by	 theSattedars  are	not  workers  within  the  meaning  of	 thedefinition in the Act.The evidence discloses a third category of persons who	tooksome part in the manufacturing process of bidis.  They	werethe  persons to whom the Sattedars distributed	tobacco	 formaking bidis in their respective homes.	 It does not  appearfrom the evidence that any one of the nine persons found  inthe  factory  belongs to that category.	  That	apart  thosepersons	 cannot,  in any sense of the term,  be	 called	 thepersons	 employed by the management directly or through	 anyagency.That that should be the construction of the provisions of s.2 (1) of the Act is reinforced by other relevant  provisionsof the Act.  Chapter 6 is headed " Working hours of Adults".Section 51 prescribes the weekly hours of work for a worker.Section	 52 provides that no adult worker shall be  requiredor allowed to work in a factory on the first day of the weekand  if he is made to work on that day for the	substitutionof   another  holiday  in  its	place.	 Section  53   givescompensatory  holiday to a worker who is made to work  on  aregular	 holiday.  Section 54 fixes the daily hours of	workand s. 55 intervals for rest.  Section 56 limits the  spreadover  of period of work for an adult worker to 10 1/2  hoursin  a day, including the intervals for rest.   Sections	 57,58, and 59 deal with night shifts prohibition of  overlapingshifts	and extra wages for overtime.  Section 60  prohibitsdouble employment, i. e., employment of the same worker in afactory	 on any day on which he has already been working  inany other factory.  Section 61 enjoins on the management  ofthe factory to display and maintain the notice of periods ofwork  for adults, showing clearly for every day the  periodsduring	which the adult workers may be required to work	 anddirects1351that the said notice shall be such that the workers  workingfor  those periods would not be working in contravention  ofany of the provisions of ss. 51,52, 54, 55, 56 and 58 of theAct.   Section	62,  for  breach  of  which  provisions	 theprosecution was launched in the present case, imposes a dutyon  the manager of every factory to maintain a	register  ofadult workers, showing the name of each adult worker in	 thefactory, the nature of his work, the group, if any, in whichhe  is included, where his group works on shifts, the  relayto which he is allotted and such other particulars as may beprescribed.  Section 63 directs that the hours of work of anadult worker should correspond with the particulars given inthe  notice  under  s.	61 and the  register  under  s.	 62.Section	 92  constitutes  the contravention of	any  of	 theprovisions  of	the  Act or any	 rules	made  thereunder  anoffence	 punishable with imprisonment or fine or with  both.The  scheme of the aforesaid provisions indicates  that	 theworkmen in +,he factory are under the direct supervision andcontrol	 of the management.  The conditions of	service	 arestatutorily  regulated and the management is to	 conform  tothe  rules  laid  down at the risk of  being  penalised	 fordereliction of any of the statutory duties.  The  managementobviously  cannot  fix the working hours,  weekly  holidays,arrange	 for  night shifts and comply with  other  statutoryrequirements, if the persons like the Sattedars, working  intheir  factories  and getting their work done by  others  orthrough coolies, are workers within the meaning of the	Act.It is Well nigh impossible for the management of the factoryto  regulate  their  work or to comply	with  the  mandatory-provisions  of	 the Act.  The said  provisions,  therefore,give  a clear indication that a worker under the  definitionof the Act is a person who enters into a contract of serviceunder  the  management and does not include  an	 independentcontractor or his coolies or servants who are not under	 thecontrol and supervision of the employer.There  is a conflict of decisions between the Allahabad	 andthe  Nagpur High Courts on the construction of s. 2  (1)  ofthe Act.  A Divisional Bench of the1352Nagpur	 High  Court  in  Provincial   Government,   CentralProvinces  and Berar v.Robinson (1) considered the scope  ofthe definition of the word " worker " in the Factories	Act.There the facts were: On November 10, 1943, a new battery ofboilers was being erected on the premises of the  JubbulporeElectric  Supply  Co. in order to supply energy to  the	 NewOrdnance  Factory  at Khamaria.	 The work  of  erection	 wasentrusted  to Messrs.  Babcock and Wilcox of Calcutta.	 Thepersons	 who  were employed by Messrs.	Babcock	 and  Wilcoxwere  found working in the premises of the  Electric  SupplyCo. in contravention of the provisions of the Factories Act.The  question  was whether the employees of  an	 independentcontractor  were  workers as defined under s. 2 (1)  of	 theAct.  Pollock J. who delivered the judgment of the  DivisionBench stated at page 44 thus:" The definition of " worker " is a very wide one, and it iswide  enough, in our opinion, to include per. sons  employedin repairing machinery or putting up new machinery, even  ifsuch a machinery is not in actual use at the time.  "It may be noticed that no contention was raised in that casethat the persons found in the factory were not the employeesof  Jubbulpore Electric Supply Co. The only question  raisedand  decided was whether the persons employed  in  repairingthe  machinery	or  putting up new  machinery  were  personsengaged in any manufacturing process or any work  incidentalto  or connected with it.  The question now raised  was	 notbefore the learned Judge and therefore there was no occasionfor  them to express any opinion thereon.  The fact that  ifthis question was raised and decided in the way we did,	 theconclusion  of the learned Judges would have been  differentcannot	make the said decision an authority on a  point	 notraised or decided upon by the learned Judges.Another	 Bench	of  the Nagpur High Court in  The  State  v.Jiwabhai (2) gave a wide connotation to the word"  employed"under s. 66(1)(b) of the Factories(1) I.L.R. [1947] Nagpur 43.(2) I.L.R. [1953] Nagpur 67.1353Act.   The learned Judges observed that the word "  employed", in their opinion, did not only connote employed on  wagesbut also being occupied or engaged in some form of activity.If  the learned Judges meant by that observation that  if  aperson	is  found,  engaged in some form of  activity  in  afactory,  irrespective of whether there was any contract  ofemployment  or	not between him and the employer,  he  is  aworker,	 we should express our respectful dissent  from	 thesaid observation.  But, on the other hand, if they had	onlyemphasized on the fact, which is obvious from the provisionsof  s. 2(1), that the employment need not be for wages,	 thestatement is unobjectionable.The decision in State v. Shri Krishna Prasad Dar need not beconsidered in detail as the learned Judges therein  acceptedthe   same  interpretation  that  we  have  placed  on	 theprovisions of s. 2(1) of the Act and came to the conclusion,on  the	 facts of that case, that the persons  therein	wereworkers of the factory.We,  therefore,	 hold  that neither the	 Sattedars  nor	 thecoolies found by the Inspector to be working in the  factorywere workers, as they were not employed by the factory.As  they were not workers, the non-inclusion of their  namesin  the	 register  of adult workers or the  absence  of	 anyentries	 in  regard to them in the said register  would	 notconstitute an offence under s. 92 of the Act.Before	leaving	 this  case  we	 would	like  to  make	 oneobservation.   Our  decision is not intended to lay  down  ageneral	 proposition that under no circumstances a  Sattedarcan  be considered to be a worker within the meaning of	 itsdefinition  in the Act.	 Whether a particular person,  underwhatever  designation  he may be known, is a worker  or	 notunder the Act depends upon the terms of the contract enteredinto between him and the employer.  In the case before us noattempt	 has been made by the prosecution to establish	thatthe Sattedars were employed by the(1)  A.I.R. [1954] Allahabad 44.1354management   for  doing	 work  in  the	factory.   The	 un-contradicted   evidence	 is  that  they	  were	 independentcontractors who came to the factory to deliver the bidis  orsent  their  coolies  to  do the  same.	  Our  decision	 is,therefore, confined to the facts of this case.In  the	 result	 we  allow the	appeal	and  set  aside	 theconvictions of the appellants under B. 92 of the Act and thesentences  imposed  upon them.	The fines if paid,  will  berefunded.Appeal allowed.1355