PETITIONER:THE ASSOCIATED CEMENT COMPANIES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:03/03/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  777		  1960 SCR  (3) 157 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC1012	 (5) D	    1969 SC 306	 (11)ACT:Industrial Dispute-Award-Notice, of Termination-Whether	 canbe  given by minority union-Industyial Disputes	 Act,  1947,(14 Of 1947), ss. 18, 19(6).HEADNOTE:The  appellant's workmen were represented by a Union  calledKamdar Mandal Cement Works, Porbandar.	The registration  ofthe  said union was cancelled and that led to the  formationof two Unions, the Cement Kamdar Mandal and Cement EmployeesUnion.	The Cement Kamdar Mandal gave two notices one  afteranother	 to  the  appellant,  purporting  to  terminate	 twoprevious  awards, wherein the defunct union represented	 theworkmen.  Thereafter the Mandal presented fresh demands	 andthe dispute was referred to the Tribunal.  The second union,the  Cement Employees' Union which represented the  majorityof  the appellant's workmen at Porbandar had been  impleadedin  the	 proceedings.	The  appellant	raised	 preliminaryobjections before the Tribunal against the competency of thereference  inter  alia	on  the ground	that  the  award  inquestion  by which the parties were bound had not been	dulyterminated under s. 19(6) of the Act in as much as the unionwhich purported to terminate the said award represented onlya  minority  of workmen bound by it.  The  Tribunal  by	 itsinterlocutory judgment found against the appellant.The  dispute between the parties centres round the  questionas  to	who can issue the notice terminating  the  award  onbehalf of workmen who are bound by the award as a result  ofs.  18 of the Act.  The question therefore for	decision  iswhether a registered trade union representing a minority  ofworkmen	 governed by an award can give notice to  the  otherparty intimating its intention to terminate the award  unders. 19(6) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.Held,  that  the effect of s. 18 is that an  award  properlymade by an industrial tribunal governs the employer and	 allthose who represent him under s. 18(c) and the employees whoare parties to the dispute and all those who are included ins.  18(b) and (d).  On a fair and reasonable reading  of  s.19(6), the true position is that, though the expression "anyparty bound by the award" refers to all workmen bound by theaward,	notice to terminate the said award can be given	 notby  an individual workman but by a group of  workmen  actingcollectively either through their union or otherwise, and itis  not	 necessary  that  such a  group	 of  workmen  actingcollectively either through their union or otherwise, shouldrepresent the majority of workmen bound by the award.	Thusit  is open to a minority of workmen or a minority union  toterminate158the  award  by which they, along with other  employees,	 arebound  just  as	 much  as it is open to	 them  to  raise  anindustrial dispute under the Act.The   Central  Provinces  Transport  Services	Limited	  v.Raghunath  Gopal  Patwardhan,  [1956]  S.C.R.  956  and	 TheNewspapers  Limited v.The State Industrial Tribunal, U.	 P.,[1957] S.C.R. 754, referred   to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 404 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the decision dated  March	 10,1958,  of the Industrial Tribunal, Rajkot,  in	AdjudicationCase No. 67 of 1955.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, R. J.  Kolah,S.  N. Andley, J. B.  Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and  P.  L.Vohra, for the appellants.Janardan Sharma, for respondent No. 2.1960.  March, 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-Can a registered trade union representinga  minority of workmen governed by an award give  notice  tothe  other party intimating its intention to  terminate	 theaward  under S. 19(6) of the Industrial Disputes Act XIV  of1947  (hereinafter  called  the Act)?	That  is  the  shortquestion  which arises for decision in the  present  appeal.In  answering  the said question it would  be  necessary  toexamine	 the  scheme of the Act and to	ascertain  the	truemeaning.  and effect of s. 19(6) on its fair and  reasonableconstruction.  The controversy thus raised undoubtedly	lieswithin a narrow compass; but before addressing ourselves  tothe  merits  of the dispute, it is necessary  to  state	 thematerial facts which led to the present proceedings.The present appeal has been brought before this Court by theAssociated Cement Companies Limited (hereinafter called	 theappellant)  against  their workman (hereinafter	 called	 therespondents),  and  it	arises from  an	 industrial  disputebetween	 them  which was referred for  adjudication  to	 theIndustrial  Tribunal  for  the State of	 Saurashtra  by	 theSaurashtra  Government under s. 10(1) of the  Act.   Severalitems of demand presented by the respondents constituted thesubject-matter	of the reference.  When the  tribunal  beganits proceedings the appellant raised four preli-159minary	objections against the competence of  the  referenceitself.	  The  tribunal heard parties on  these	 preliminaryobjections,  and by its interlocutory judgment delivered  onMarch  10, 1958, it has found against the appellant  on	 allthe  points.   In the result it set down the  reference	 forfurther	  hearing  on  the  merits.   It  is  against	thisinterlocutory judgment and order that the appellant has cometo  this  Court by special leave.  Out of  the	four  pointsurged  by  the appellant as preliminary	 objections  we	 areconcerned  with	 only one in the present  appeal,  and	thatrelates	 to the incompetence of the reference on the  groundthat  the award in question by which the parties were  boundhas  not  been	duly terminated under s. 19(6)	of  the	 Actinasmuch as the union which purported to terminate the	saidaward represents only a minority of workmen bound by it.The  circumstances  under which this contention	 was  raisedmust  now  be  stated in some detail.  The  appellant  is  alimited	 company  and  owns  and runs  a  number  of  cementfactories spread out in different States in India as well asin  Pakistan.  It has a factory at Porbandar in	 Saurashtra.The  factory  is known as the Porbandar	 Cement	 Works.	  Anindustrial  dispute  arose  between the	 appellant  and	 therespondents in 1949 and it was referred for adjudication  tothe  industrial tribunal on March 22, 1949.  This  referenceended  in an award made on September 13,  1949.	  Thereafterthe  said  award  was terminated by the	 appellant;  and  ondisputes  arising  between it and  the	respondents  anotherreference was made to the same tribunal for adjudication  ofthe  said  disputes.  A second award was made  on  July	 24,1951,  by which the earlier award with slight  modificationswas ordered to continue in operation.  In the proceedings inrespect of both the references the appellant's workmen	wererepresented  by	 their Union called  Kamdar  Mandal,  CementWorks,	Porbandar.  It appears that the registration of	 thesaid union was cancelled on July 2,1954, and that led to theformation  of  two unions of the  appellant's  workmen,	 theCement Kamdar Mandal which was registered on160July  7,  1954, and the Cement Employees'  Union  which	 wasregistered on September 18, 1954.The  Cement  Kamdar Mandal gave notice	to  the	 appellant'smanager	 on September 23, 1954, purporting to terminate	 thefirst  award  pronounced  on  September	 13,  1949,  at	 theexpiration  of two months' notice from the date of the	saidcommunication.	 By  another  letter  written  on   December20,1954,  the same union purported to terminate	 the  secondaward pronounced on July 24, 1951, in a similar manner.	  OnNovember  22, 1954, the said Mandal presented fresh  demandsmost of which were covered by the two previous awards.	 Thesaid  demands were referred to the Conciliation Officer	 forconciliation but the efforts at conciliation failed., and onreceiving  a failure report from the officer the  SaurashtraGovernment made the present reference purporting to exerciseits  jurisdiction  under  s.  10(1)(c)	of  the	 Act.	 Theappellant's  case is that the Cement kamdar Mandal  was	 notauthorised  to terminate either of the two awards  under  s.19(6)  of  the Act, that the second award is thus  still  inoperation, and so the reference is invalid.Meanwhile it appears that the Cement Employees' Union, whichrepresents  the	 majority  of  the  appellant's	 workmen  atPorbandar, instead of giving notice of termination under  s.19(6)  raised disputes with the appellant and the same	werereferred   to	the  Conciliation   Officer.	Efforts	  atconciliation  having failed the conciliation officer made  afailure	  report  to  the  Government  of  Saurashtra;	 theSaurashtra  Government,	 however, did not  refer  the'	saiddispute	 for adjudication.  In the present proceedings	thisUnion  has been impleaded and it has supported	the  demandsmade   by  the	Cement	Kamdar	Mandal;	 in   other   words,notwithstanding	 the  rivalry between the  two	Unions,	 thedemands	 made  by the minority union were supported  by	 themajority union, and in fact, in the appeal before us, it  isthe  latter union that has appeared to contest	the  appeal.The  tribunal has dealt with the point of law raised by	 theappellant  under s. 19(6) on the assumption that the  CementKamdar Mandal which purported to terminate the awards  underthe said section represents the minority161of the workmen employed at Porbandar, and we propose to dealwith the point raised in the appeal onthe same assumption. The  main sections which fall to be considered	 in  dealingwith  the dispute are ss. 18 and 19 as they stood  in  1954.Section	 18  provides, inter alia, that an award  which	 hasbecome	enforceable shall be( binding on (a) all parties  tothe  industrial dispute, (b) all other parties	summoned  toappear in the proceedings as parties to the dispute,  unlessthe  Board  or	tribunal, as the case may  be,	records	 theopinion that they were so summoned without proper cause, (c)where  a  party	 referred to in cl. (a) or  cl.	 (b)  is  anemployer, his heirs, successors or assigns in respect of theestablishment to which the dispute relates, and (d) where  aparty  referred	 to  in cl. (a) or cl. (b)  is	composed  ofworkmen, all persons who were employed in the  establishmentor  part of the establishment, as the case may be, to  whichthe  dispute  relates on the date of the  dispute,  and	 allpersons	  who	subsequently   became	employed   in	thatestablishment  or  part.  It is thus clear  that  though  anindustrial  dispute may be raised by a group of workmen	 whomay  not  represent  all or even the  majority	of  workmen,still,	if the said dispute is referred to  the	 industrial,tribunal for adjudication and an award is made, it binds notonly the parties to the dispute or other parties summoned toappear	 but   all  persons  who  were	 employed   in	 theestablishment  or who would be employed in future  are	alsogoverned by the award ; in other words, the effect of s.  18is  that  an award properly made by an	industrial  tribunalgoverns	 the employer and all those who represent him  unders.  18(c) and the employees who are parties to	the  disputeand all those who are included in s. 18(b) and (d).Section 19 prescribes the period of operation of settlementsand  awards.   Section 19(3) provides that an  award  shall,subject	 to  the  provisions  of  this	section,  remain  inoperation for a period of one year.  This is subject to	 theprovisos  to suubs. (3) as well as to sub s. (4) but we	 arenot  concerned	with  the said	provisions.   Section  19(6)provides  that notwithstanding the expiry of the  period  ofoperation under21162sub-s.	(3)  the award shall continue to be binding  on	 theparties	 until a period of two months has elapsed  from	 thedate on which the notice is given by any party bound by	 theaward to the other party or parties intimating its intentionto  terminate the award.  The effect of this sub-section  isthat  unless the award is duly terminated as provided by  itshall continue to be binding notwithstanding the  expirationof  the period prescribed by sub-s. (3).  This	position  isnot  in	 dispute.  The dispute between the  parties  centersround	the  question  as  to  who  can	 issue	the   noticeterminating the award on behalf of workmen who are bound  bythe  award as a result of s. 18 of the Act.  What  the	sub-section	 requires  is that a notice shall be  given  by	 anyparty bound by the award to the other party or parties.	  Towhom  the  notice  should  be given  may  not  present	muchdifficulty.   Where the award is sought to be terminated  onbehalf	of the employees the notice has to be given  to	 theemployer  and that is the party entitled to receive  notice.Then,  as  to  "  the parties " to  whom  also	notices	 arerequired  to  be given, it may perhaps be that	the  partiesintended  are those joined under s. 10, sub-s. (5) or  unders.  18, sub-s. (2) or are otherwise parties to the  dispute;but with that aspect of the question we are not concerned inthe  present  appeal, because notice has been given  to	 theappellant and all the workmen concerned in the dispute	haveappeared  before  the tribunal through	the  two  respectiveunions.	 The question with which we are concerned and  whichis  not easy to determine is the true interpretation of	 theword  "	 any  party bound by the award ".  We  have  alreadynoticed	 the effect of s. 18, and we. have seen how wide  isthe circle of persons who are bound by the award as a resultof the said section. , Literally construed, any party  boundby the award may mean even a single employee who is bound bythe  award,  and  on  this  literal  construction  even	 onedissatisfied  employee	may  be	 entitled  to  give   noticeterminating  the  award.   On  the other  hand,	 it  may  bepossible to contend that any party in the context must	meana party that represents the majority of the persons bound bythe award.163Terminating the award is a serious step and such a step	 canbe  taken by a party only if it can claim to  represent	 thewill  of  the  majority	 on that  point.   It  is  for	thisconstruction that the appellant contends before us.In  construing	this  provision	 it  would  be	relevant  toremember that an industrial dispute as defined by s.   2(k)of the Act means any dispute or difference between employersand employers, or between employers and workmen, or  betweenworkmen	 and workmen which is connected with the  employmentor  non-employment, or the terms of employment, or with	 theconditions  of	labour	of  any	 person.   This	  definitionemphatically brings out the essential characteristics of thedispute	 with which the Act purports to deal.  The  disputesmust  relate  to  the  terms  of  employment  or  with	 theconditions  of	labour	and they  must	arise,	inter  alia,between	  workmen  and	their  employer.    Ordinarily,	  anindividual dispute which is not sponsored by the union or isotherwise  not	supported  by any group of  workmen  is	 notregarded  as an industrial dispute for the purposes  of	 theAct.  A provision like that contained in s. 33A is of coursean  exception  to  this	 rule.	 The  basis  of	  industrialadjudication  recognised by the province of the Act  clearlyappears	 to  be that disputes between  employers  and  theiremployees  would be governed by the Act where such  disputeshave  assumed  the character of an industrial  dispute.	  Anelement	 of  collective bargaining which  is  the  essentialfeature	 of  modern  trade  union  movement  is	 necessarilyinvolved in industrial adjudication.  That is why industrialcourts	deal with disputes in relation to  individual  casesonly  where  such  disputes  assume  the  character  of	  anindustrial  dispute  by	 reason of the fact  that  they	 aresponsored by the union or have otherwise been taken up by  agroup or body of employees.  In The Central Provinces Trans-port Services Limited v. Raghunath Gopal Patwardhan (1) thisCourt  has  observed that " the	 preponderance	of  judicialopinion is clearly in favour of the view that an  individualdispute	 cannot	 per  se be an industrial  dispute  but	 maybecome one if taken up by a(1)  [ 1956] S.C.R. 956.164trade  union  or a number of persons ".	 These	observationshave  been cited with approval by this Court in the case  ofThe Newspapers Limited v. The State Industrial Tribunal,  U.P.  Having regard to this aspect of the matter it  would  bedifficult to hold that "any party bound by the award " caninclude an individual workman, though speaking literallyhe is a party bound by the award. In our opinion, there-fore,  the  said  expression cannot  include  an  individualworkman. We oughtto  add  that this  position  is  fairlyconceded by'.Sharma for the respondents.That takes us tothe   question	 as   to   whether   theexpression  "  any party bound by the award "  must  mean  aunion  representing the majority of the workmen bound by  itor  a  group of workmen constituting  such  majority  actingotherwise  than	 through the union.  The  expression  "	 anyparty  bound  by  the  award  "	 obviously  refers  to,	 andincludes,  all persons bound by the award under s. 18.	 Thelearned Attorney-General has urged before us that we  shouldconstrue  s. 19(6) so as to preclude a minority	 of  workmenbound by the award from disturbing the smooth working of theaward  and thereby creating an industrial dispute.  When  anaward is made it binds the parties for the statutory  periodunder  s. 19(3); and even after the expiration of  the	saidperiod	it continues to be binding on the parties  under  s.19(6) unless it is duly terminated.  The policy of the	Act,therefore,  appears  to be that the smooth working.  of	 theaward even after the prescribed statutory period should	 notbe disturbed unless the majority of the workmen bound by  itfeel  that it should be terminated and fresh demands  shouldbe  made.  If a minority of workmen or a minority  union  isallowed	 to  terminate	the  award  it	would  lead  to	 theanomalous  result  that	 despite  the  willingness  of	 themajority  of workmen to abide by the award the minority	 cancreate disturbance and raise an industrial dispute and	thatcannot	be within the contemplation of the Legislature	whenit  enacted s. 19(6) of the Act.  That in substance  is	 theargument  urged	 before us; thus presented the	argument  nodoubt appears prima facie attractive;(1)  [1957] S.C.R 754.165but, in our opinion, it would be unreasonable to accept thisconstruction and impose the limitation of the majority	votein the matter of the termination of the award.The  effect  of	 imposing such a limitation  would,  in	 ouropinion, seriously prejudice the interests of the employees.It  is	well-known  that the trade union  movement  in	thiscountry	 cannot yet claim to cover all employees engaged  inseveral	 branches of industry.	Membership of the  importanttrade  unions  no doubt shows an  appreciable  increase	 andprogress, but the stage when trade unions can claim to	havecovered	 all employees or even a majority of them has  stillnot  been  reached.   If the majority  rule  for  which	 theappellant  contends is accepted and s. 19(6) is	 accordinglyconstrued,  termination	 of the award would,  we  apprehend,become	very difficult, if not impossible, in a	 very  largenumber	of cases.  It is in this context that the effect  ofs. 18 has to be borne in mind.	As we have already indicatedthe  class  of employees bound by the award under s.  18  isvery  much wider than the parties to the industrial  disputein which the award is made; the said class includes not onlyall the persons employed in the establishment at the date ofthe award but it covers even the subsequent employees in thesaid  establishment.  It is, therefore, obvious that if	 themajority  rule is adopted very few awards, if any, could  beterminated because very few unions would be able to claim  amajority  of  members on their rolls, and in  their  presentstage of Organization in very few cases would a majority  ofworkmen	 be able to meet, decide and act together  otherwisethan  through their unions.  That is why the  majority	rulewould  very seriously prejudice the rights of  employees  toterminate  awards  when	 they  feel that  they	need  to  bemodified or changed.  That is one aspect of the matter whichcannot	be  ignored in construing the material words  in  s.19(6).There  is  another  aspect of the  question  which  is	alsorelevant   and	which,	in  our	 opinion,  is  against	 theconstruction  suggested by the appellant.  We  have  alreadynoticed that an industrial dispute can be raised by a  groupof workmen or by a union even166though neither of them represent the majority of the workmenconcerned;  in other words, the majority rule on  which	 theappellant's   construction   of	  s.   19(6)   is   based-isinapplicable in the matter of the reference of an Industrialdispute	 under s. 10 of the Act.  Even a minority  group  ofworkmen	 can make a demand and thereby raise  an  industrialdispute	 which	in  a  proper case  would  be  referred	 foradjudication  under  s.	 10.  It  is  true  that  an   awardpronounced  on such reference would bind all  the  employeesunder s. 18; but logically, if an industrial dispute can  beraised	by a minority of workmen or by a minority union	 whyshould	it  not	 be  open to. a minority  of  workmen  or  aminority  union	 to terminate the award which is  passed  onreference made at their instance ? The anomaly to which	 thelearned	   Attorney-General   refers   has   no	   practicalsignificance.  If the majority of workmen bound by the awarddesire	 that  the  award  should  continue  and  needs	  nomodification,  they may come to an agreement in that  behalfwith  their  employer,	and  adopt such	 course	 as  may  bepermissible under the Act to make such agreement  effective.However	 that may be, we are satisfied that both  logic	 andfairplay  would justify the conclusion that it is open to  aminority  of  workmen or a minority union to  terminate	 theaward  by which they, along with other employees, are  boundjust  as  much as it is open to hem to raise  an  industrialdispute	 under	the  Act.  hat is  the	view  taken  by	 theindustrial tribunal in he present case and we see no  reasonto differ from it.It  appears  that when this question was argued	 before	 thetribunal the appellant strongly relied on rule 83 framed  bythe Government of Bombay under s. 38 of the Act; and it	 wasurged that the said rule is consistent with the constructionsought	to  be placed by the appellant on s. 19(6).   It  isconceded  that	at  he relevant time this rule	was  not  inforce;	and so it s strictly not applicable to	the  presentproceedings. hat being so, we do not propose to consider theargument based on the said rule and to examine the  questionas  to	whether	 the rule really  supports  the	 appellant'sconstruction,  and, if yes, whether it would be valid.	 Thequestion raised before us must obvi-167ously be decided on a fair and reasonable construction of s.19(6)  itself, and the rule in question, even if  applicablewould  not be material in that behalf.	We accordingly	holdthat, on a fair- and reasonable construction of s. 19(6) thetrue  position	is that, though the  expression	 "any  partybound  by  the	award" refers to all workmen  bound  by	 theaward,	notice to terminate the said award can be given	 notby  an individual workman but by a group of  workmen  actingcollectively either through their union or otherwise, and itis  not	 necessary that such a group or	 the  union  throughwhich it acts should represent the majority of workmen boundby the award.In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.