PETITIONER:ABDUL HAKIM QURAISHI AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHAR (AND CONNECTED PETITIONS)DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/11/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1961 AIR  448		  1961 SCR  (2) 610 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1962 SC1371	 (42,64) RF	    1970 SC  93	 (5) RF	    1986 SC1205	 (6) RF	    1986 SC1213	 (12)ACT:Cattle Preservation--Ban on slaguhter of cattle below 20  or25 years of age--Whether reasonable--Bihar Preservation	 andImprovement  of	 Animals (Amendment) Act, 1959 (Bihar  1  of1959),	s. 3--Bihar Preservation and Improvement of  AnimalsRules,1960, r. 3--Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow  Slaughter(Amendment)  Act,  1958 (U.  P. 33 of  1958),  s.  3--MadhyaPradesh	 Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act, 1959 (M.	  P.18 of 1959), ss. 4(2)(a) and 5.HEADNOTE:In  Mohd.  Hanif Quareshi v. The State of Bihar the  SupremeCourt  held  that  a total ban on the  slaughter  of  bulls,bullocks  and  she-buffaloes  after they had  ceased  to  beuseful	was not in the interests of the general	 public	 andwas  invalid.  Thereafter, the Bihar Legislature passed	 theBihar  Preservation and Improvement of	Animals	 (Amendment)Act,  1958, the Uttar Pradesh Legislature passed the  U.  P.Prevention  of Cow Slaughter (Amendment) Act, 1958  and	 theMadhya	Pradesh	 Legislature  passed a new Act,	 the  M.  P.Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act, 1959.Section	 3  of the Bihar Act prohibited the slaughter  of  abull,  bullock	or she-buffalo except when it  was  over  25years  of age and had become useless.  Rule 3 of  the  BiharPreservation   and  Improvement	 of  Animals   Rules,	1960prescribed  that the certificate for slaughtering an  animalcould be granted only with the concurrence of the VeterinaryOfficer	 and  the Chairman or Chief Officer  of	 a  DistrictBoard,	Municipality  etc., and if the	two  differed,	thenaccording  to  the  decision of	 the  Sub-Divisional  AnimalHusbandary Officer.Section 3 of the U. P. Act permitted the slaughter of a bullor  bullock  only  if it was over 20 years of  age  and	 waspermanently  unfit.   It further provided  that	 the  animalcould  not be slaughtered within 20 days of the grant of  'acertificate  that  it was fit to be slaughtered and  gave  aright  of  appeal  to  any person  aggrieved  by  the  ordergranting the certificate.Section	 4(1)(b) of the Madhya Pradesh Act provided that  nobull, bullock or buffallo could be slaughtered except upon acertificate issued by the competent authority and s. 4(2)(a)provided  that	no certificate could be	 issued	 unless	 theanimal	was over 20 years of age and was unfit for  work  orbreeding.  Section 4(3) gave a right of appeal to any personaggrieved by the order of the competent authority.   Section5 provided that no animal611shall be slaughtered within 10 days of the date of the issueof the certificate and where an appeal was preferred againstthe grant of the certificate, till the time such appeal	 wasdisposed of.The petitioners, who carried on the profession and trade  ofbutchers, contended that the various provisions of the threeActs  set  out above infringed their fundamental  rights  bypractically  putting a total ban on the slaughter of  bulls,bullocks and she-buffaloes even after the animal had  ceasedto  be	useful	and  thus virtually  put  an  end  to  theirprofession and trade.Held,  (i) that the ban on the slaughter of bulls,  bullocksand she-buffaloes below the age of 20 or 25 years was not  areasonable  restriction	 in  the interests  of	the  generalpublic	and  was void.	A bull, bullock or buffalo  did	 notremain useful after 15 years, and whatever little use it mayhave  then was greatly offset by the economic  disadvantagesof  feeding  and  maintaining  unserviceable  cattle.	 Theadditional condition that the animal must, apart from  beingabove  20  or 25 years of age, also be unfit was  a  furtherunreasonable restriction.  Section 3 of the Bihar Act, s.  3of  the	 U.  P. Act and s. 4(2)(a) of the  M.  P.  Act	wereinvalid.(ii)  Rule 3 of the Bihar Rules was bad as it  imposed	dis-proportionate restrictions on the rights of the petitioners.The procedure involved such expenditure of money and time asmade the obtaining of the certificate not worthwhile.(iii) The provisions in the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya PradeshActs providing	that  the animal shall	not  be	 slaughteredwithin	20  and10  days respectively of	 the  issue  of	 thecertificate  and that any person aggrieved by the  order  ofthe competent authority, may appeal against it, were  likelyto  hold up the slaughter of the animal for a long time	 andpractically put a total ban on slaughter of bulls,  bullocksand  buffaloes	even  after they had ceased  to	 be  useful.These  provisions imposed unreasonable restrictions  on	 thefundamental rights of the petitioners and were void.Mohd.	Hanif Quareshi v. The State of Bihar, [1959]  S.C.R.629, State of Madras v. V. G. Row, [1952] S.C.R. 597 and TheState  of  Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar  Singh  ofDarbhanga, [1952] S.C.R. 889, referred to.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 15 of 1959, 14 of 1960and 21 of 1959.Petitions  under  Art. 32 of the Constitution of  India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.Frank Anthony and J. B. Dadachanji, for the petitioners	 (InPetns.	Nos. 15 and 21 of 1959).612H.  J.	Umrigar, O. P. Rana and A. G. Ratnaparkhi,  for	 thepetitioners (In Petn.  No. 14 of 1960).L.   K.	 Jha and S. P. Varma, for the respondent  (In  Petn.No. 15 of 1959).C.  K.	Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India,  M.  Adhikari,Advocate-General  for the State of Madhya Pradesh and I.  N.Shroff, for the respondent (In Petn.  No. 14 of 1960).H.  N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India and  C.P. Lal, for the respondent (In Petn.  No. 21 of 1959).1960.  November 23.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyS.  K.	DAS, J.-These three writ petitions have	 been  heardtogether,  as they raise common questions of law  and  fact.They relate, however, to three different enactments made  bythe  Legislatures  of three different States-Bihar  in	writpetition No. 15, Uttar Pradesh in writ petition No. 21,	 andMadhya Pradesh in writ petition No. 14.	 The petitioners  inthe  several  petitions have challenged the 'validity  of  anumber	of provisions of the enactments in question and,  insome cases, also of the rules made thereunder.	The impugnedprovisions  are similar in nature, but are not	exactly	 thesame.  Therefore, we shall first state in general terms	 thecase  of  the petitioners and then consider  in	 detail	 andseparately the impugned provisions in each case.  But beforewe  do	so,  it is necessary to	 refer	to  some  backgroundhistory	 of  the legislation under  consideration  in  thesecases.In the year 1958 this Court had to consider the validity  ofcertain provisions of three Acts:(1)  The Bihar Preservation and Improvement of Animals	Act,(Bihar Act II of 1956);(2)  the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act,	 1955(U.  P. Act 1 of 1956); and(3)  the  Central  Provinces and Berar	Animal	PreservationAct, 1949 (C.  P. and Berar Act LII of 1949).The Bihar Act put a total ban on the slaughter of all613categories of animals of the species of bovine cattle.	 TheU.  P. Act put a total ban on the slaughter of cows and	 herprogeny which included bulls, bullocks, heifers and  calves.The C. P. and Berar Act placed a total ban on the  slaughterof cows, male or female calves of cows, bulls, bullocks, andheifers,  and  the slaughter of buffaloes (male	 or  female,adults	or  calves) was permitted only under  a	 certificategranted	 by the proper authorities.  These three  Acts	wereenacted	 in  pursuance of the directive principle  of  Statepolicy	contained  in  Art. 48	of  the	 Constitution.	 Thepetitioners  who  challenged the various provisions  of	 theaforesaid  Acts in 1958 were engaged in the butcher's  tradeand   its  subsidiary  undertakings;  they  challenged	 theconstitutional validity of the Acts on the ground that	theyinfringed their fundamental rights under Arts. 14,  19(1)(f)and  (g)  of the Constitution.	In the decision	 which	thisCourt  gave in Mohd.  Hanif Quareshi v. The State, of  Bihar(1), it held-(i)  that a total ban on the slaughter of cows of  all	agesand calves of cows and of she-buffaloes, male or female, wasquite reasonable and valid;(ii)  that a total ban on the slaughter of she-buffaloes  orbreeding  bulls,  or  working bullocks (cattle	as  well  asbuffaloes)  so	long as they were capable of being  used  asmilch or draught cattle was also reasonable and valid; and(iii) that a total ban on slaughter of she-buffaloes,  bullsand  bullocks  (cattle or buffalo) after they ceased  to  becapable	 of  yielding  milk or of  breeding  or	 working  asdraught	 animals  was not in the interests  of	the  generalpublic and was invalid.In the result this Court directed the respondent States	 notto  enforce  their respective Acts in so far  as  they	weredeclared  void	by  it.	 This led to some  amending  or	 newlegislation, and we are concerned in these three cases	withthe  provisions of these amending or new Acts and the  rulesmade  thereunder.  In Bihar (Writ Petition No. 15  of  1959)the  impugned  Act  is called  the  Bihar  Preservation	 andImprovement of Animals(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 629.78614(Amendment)  Act,  1959	 which received the  assent  of	 theGovernor  on  January  13, 1959.  in  Uttar  Pradesh   (WritPetition  No.  21 of 1959) the impugned Act  is	 called	 theUttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter  (Amendment)	Act,1958 and in Madhya Pradesh (Writ Petition No' 14 of 1960)  anew  Act was passed called the Madhya  Pradesh	AgriculturalCattle	Preservation  Act,  1959  (Act	18  of	1959)  whichreceived  the assent of the President on July 24,  1959	 andcame into force on January 15, 1960.  The rules made  there-under  are  called the Madhya  Pradesh	Agricultural  CattlePreservation Rules, 1959.The  general  case of the petitioners, who  are	 several  innumber in each of the three cases, is that they are citizensof  India  and	carry  on  their  profession  and  trade  ofbutchers;  they	 allege that the various provisions  of	 theimpugned  legislation infringe their fundamental  rights  inthat they, for all practical purposes, have put a total	 banon  the slaughter of she-buffaloes, bulls or bullocks,	evenafter  such  animals  have ceased to  be  useful,  and	havevirtually  put an end to their profession and trade.  It  ispointed out that the age up to which the animals referred toabove cannot be slaughtered (20 or 25 years) has been put sohigh  that  the practical effect is that no animals  can  beslaughtered, and the amending or new legislation has put  inother  restrictions so arbitrary and unreasonable in  naturethat  in effect they amount to a prohibition or	 destructionof  the	 petitioner's  right to carry  on  their  trade	 andprofession.   The following allegations quoted from  one  ofthe petitions (Writ Petition No. 15 of 1959) give a  generalidea  of the nature of the case which the  petitioners	haveput forward:"That there is good professional authority for the view thateven  in countries where animal husbandry is organised on  ahighly progressive and scientific basis, cattle seldom	livebeyond 15 or 16 years.That  there is also good authority to the effect  that	evenpedigree breeding bulls are usually discarded at the age  of12 or 14 years. ,That  in India bulls and bullocks and  she-buffaloes  rarelylive even up to the age of 15 years; draught bullocks  beginto age after eight years,615That  the  raising of the age limit from 15 to 20  years  isarbitrary,  unreasonable  and  against	the  general  publicinterests and is repugnant to and infringes the, fundamentalrights	of the, petitioners under Article 19 (1)(f) and	 (g)of the Constitution.That  section  3  of  the  amending  Act  is  a	 mala  fide,colourable  exercise of power, repugnant to the	 fundamentalrights of the -petitioners under Article 19 (1)(f) and (g).That this arbitrary raising of the age limit will be againstthe public interests For the following among' other reasons:(i)  That  there will, in fact, be no bulls or	bullocks  orshe-buffaloes  available  for slaughter as few, if  any,  ofsuch animals survive in India up to the age of 15 years;(ii)  that the profession, trade and occupation of  millionsof Muslims will be permanently and irreparably injured;(iii)  that millions of members of the minority	 communitiessuch  as Christians, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes	 andMuslims,  for  whom cattle-beef is a staple  item  of  theirdiet, will be deprived of this diet;(iv)  that the menace of the rapidly  increasing  uneconomiccattle	population  in such matters as	the  destruction  ofcrops, being a public nuisance, will be accentuated by	thisarbitrary  age limit, and in effect will ensure	 that  bullsand bullocks cannot be slaughtered;(v)  that the menace of the rapidly increasing population ofuneconomic  cattle  to	the fodder  and	 other	animal	foodresources of the country will be accentuated.(vi)  that  the competition between the	 rapidly  increasingcattle	population,  a	large  percentage  I  of  which	  isuneconomic  and	 useless,  add	the  human  population	 foravailable land will be accentuated;(vii) that this piece of legislation will ensure the  steadyincrease  of  useless  bulls and  bullocks  and	 must  reactdisastrously against any attempt to improve milk production,bullock power or animal husbandry generally."616Similar	 allegations  have  been  made	in  the	 other	 twopetitions also.The correctness of these allegations has been con. tested onbehalf	of  the respondent States, which   through  some  oftheir  officers	 have filed affidavits in reply.   We  shallpresently  examine at greater length the averments  made  inthese affidavits, but we may indicate here in broad  outlinewhat  their general effect is. In Bihar the age below  whichthe  slaughter	of  she-buffaloes,  bulls  and	bullocks  isprohibited is 25 years.	 The respondent State has taken	 theplea that the  usefulness  or  longevity of  live-stock	 forbreeding and   other purposes depends to a very great extenton  (a) better animal husbandry facilities like feeding	 andmanagement and (b) control of animal diseases, and as  thesefacilities  are	 now  available in a  greater  measure,	 thelegislature came to the conclusion that a bull or bullock ora  she-buffalo	below 25 years of age  continues  to  remainuseful;	 if  a bull, bullock or	 shebuffalo  is	 permanentlyincapacitated below that age the impugned provision  permitsits  slaughter	and  therefore	the  legislation  which	  ischallenged  conforms to the decision of this Court and	doesnot violate any fundamental right.  In Uttar Pradesh the ageis  20 years as respects bulls or bullocks, with  a  furtherrestriction to be referred to later.  The reply of the	res-pondent State is that bulls or bullocks do not become  unfitat the age of 12 or 14 years as alleged by the	petitioners;on  the contrary, they continue to be useful and at no	timethey  become  entirely useless.	 It is then  stated  in	 theaffidavit:"As  a matter of fact, the age up to which the	animals	 canlive and are serviceable depends upon the care and attentionthey receive and the quality of the grass on which they	 aregrazed.............................According   to   a	highauthority  the	average	 age  of  an  ox  under	  favourableconditions  would  be between 15 to 20	years.	 Even  underconditions prevailing in Uttar Pradesh, bulls can live	upto20  years  or  more as would appear from an  analysis  of  asurvey report of the animal husbandry department."617On  these averments the respondent State contends  that	 thelegislation is valid.  In Madhya Pradesh also the age is  20years.	The Under-Secretary to the( State Government in	 theAgricultural  Department'  has made the reply  affidavit  inwhich  it  has	been stated inter alia	that  conditions  inMadhya	Pradesh	 are  different	 from  conditions  in  otherStates.	 The affidavit then states:"The State of Madhya Pradesh has a total area of 107,589,000acres, out of which total cropped area is 43,572,000  acres.Forest	area  is 33,443,000 acres, area	 not  available	 forcultivation  is	 11,555,000  acres,  uncultivated  land	  is18,405,000  acres  and fallow land is 5,834,000	 acres.	  Itwill  thus be seen that this State has a large	forest	areaand  plenty  of grass land for pasturage.   As	the  forestssupply	the  greater  part of the fuel needs  of  the  humanpopulation,  the  dung of animals is  largely  available  asmanure.	 The legislature considered that bulls, bullocks andbuffaloes  are useful in this State till they are well	pasttwenty years of age and that they should not be	 slaughteredtill  they are past that age and are also unfit for work  orbreeding.   The problem of animals dying of slow  starvationor  of worthless animals depriving useful animals of  fodderneeds  no  consideration in this  State.   The	agriculturalcommunity in the State benefits by the existence of  animalsas  long  as  they  are	 useful."  There  are  also  furtheraverments  as  to the shortage of  breeding  bulls,  workingbullocks  and  she-buffaloes in Madhya	Pradesh.   On  theseaverments the contention of the respondent State is that thecattle in that State are useful up to the age of 20 years.We  have  indicated above in general terms the case  of	 thepetitioners  and the reply which the respondent States	havegiven.	 We proceed now to a detailed consideration  of	 theimpugned legislation in each case.(1) We take up first the  Bihar Preservation and Improvementof  Animals (Amendment) Act, 1959 and the rules	 made  underthe  main  Act	of 1955.  Section 3 of the  Act	 as  amendedreads:"S. 3. Prohibition of slaughter of cow, calf, bull,  bullockor she-buffalo;618Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the  time'being  in force or in any usage or custom to  the  contrary,no  person  shall slaughter or cause to be  slaughtered,  oroffer  or  cause to be offered for slaughter  a	 cow,  calf,bull, bullock or she-buffalo:Provided that the prescribed authority may, subject to	suchconditions as may be prescribed, allow the slaughter of-(i) a bull or bullock which is over twenty-fiveyears of	 ageor which has become permanently incapable of breeding or  ofbeing used as a draught animal, as the case may be, and(ii) a she-buffalo which is over twenty-five years of age orwhich  has  become  permanently	 incapable  of	breeding  oryielding  milk, if the permanent incapability has  not	beencaused deliberately;Provided  further that the State Government may, by  generalor  special order, and subject to such conditions as it	 maythink fit to impose, allow the slaughter of any such  animalfor any medicinal or research purposes."The scheme of the section is that its substantive  provisionimposes	 a total ban on the slaughter of a cow, calf,  bull,bullock	 or  she-buffalo;  the	proviso	 then  engrafts	  anexception  as to bulls, bullocks and she-buffaloes and	laysdown  the  circumstances  in  which  the  slaughter  of	 theaforesaid  animals may be allowed.  No question arises	hereas  to cows and calves; a total ban on their  slaughter	 hasbeen held to be valid by this Court.  The question before usis  whether  the section in so far as it relates  to  bulls,bullocks and shebuffaloes is constitutionally valid.  It  isworthy of note that the Bill, as originally drafted, put theage  at fifteen years only; but the Select Committee on	 theBill  said,  "The Committee feels that	the  words  'fifteenyears'	will  not  be sufficient  for  the  preservation  ofanimals.   They feel that it would be better if those  wordsare  substituted by the words 'twenty-five years' .......  "No other reason was given for increasing the age.  After thefiling of Writ Petition no. 15 of 1959 the Governor of Biharmade certain rules under s. 38619