PETITIONER:INDU BHUSAN CHATTERJEE	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:26/11/1957BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1958 AIR  148		  1958 SCR 1001ACT:   Public servant-Prosecution-Sanction-Essentials of a validsanction-Prevention  of	 Corruption Act, 1947 (2  Of  1947),SS.5(2), 6 -Indian Penal Code (Act 45 of 1860), S. 161.HEADNOTE:The appellant, a public servant, was convicted under S. 5(2)of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, and under s.	 161of  the Indian Penal Code on a charge of accepting a sum  ofRs. 100 as illegal gratification.  It was contended for	 theappellant that the conviction was bad on the ground that thesanction  for  his  prosecution was not	 valid	because	 theofficer	 competent to sanction the prosecution (1)  had	 notapplied his mind to the facts and circumstances of the	casebut merely perused the draft prepared by the Police and	 (2)did not investigate the truth of the offence' The  evidence,however,  showed that he went through all the papers  placedbefore him which gave him the necessary material upon  whichhe  decided that it was necessary in the ends of justice  toaccord his sanction :Held,  that the essentials of a valid sanction were  presentin the case and that the conviction was valid.Gokulchand  Dwarkadas  Morarka v. The King, (1948)  L.R.  75I.A. 30, referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 18  of1955.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated December 1,  1954,of  the	 Calcutta High Court in Criminal Appeal No.  322  of1953,  arising out of the judgment and order dated  November20, 1953, of the West Bengal First Special Court at  Aliporein Case No. 3 of 1953.N.   C. Chatterjee and D. N. Mukherjee, for the appellant.B.   Sen  and  P.  K.  Ghosh  (for  P.	K.  Bose),  for	 therespondent.1957.  November 26.  The following Judgment of the Court wasdelivered byIMAM  J.-The  High Court of Calcutta  certified	 under	Art.134(1)(c) of the Constitution that the case before us was  afit one for appeal to this Court.  The1271000ground for the granting of the certificate, as stated by theHigh Court, will be considered in due course.The appellant was convicted under s. 5(2) of the  Preventionof  Corruption Act, 1947 (II of 1947), hereinafter  referredto as the Act, and under s. 161 of the Indian Penal Code  bya  Special Judge who sentenced him under s. 161, to  undergorigorous imprisonment for three months and to pay a fine  ofRs.  500 in default to suffer further rigorous	imprisonmentfor  one  month.  No separate sentence was passed  under  s.5(2)  of  the Act.  He unsuccessfully appealed to  the	HighCourt against his conviction and sentence.The charge framed against the appellant under s. 161 of	 theIndian Penal Code, in substance, stated that on or about May12,  1952,he had accepted Rs. 100 as  illegal  gratificationfrom  V.  S. Doraiswamy as a motive or reward for  doing  anofficial  act  and showing in the exercise of  his  officialfunctions  favour to Doraiswamy in seeing that a speedy	 andfavourable  settlement of the claim cases preferred  by	 himagainst the Bengal Nagpur Railway, subsequently the  EasternRailway.  The charge under s. 5(2) of the Act which  relatedto  the	 same  transaction stated  that	 the  appellant	 hadaccepted the aforesaid sum of Rs. 100 by corrupt or  illegalmeans  or  by  otherwise abusing his position  as  a  publicservant.It  is unnecessary to set out in any great detail the  storyof  the prosecution as to how Doraiswamy and  the  appellantcame into contact and how the process of giving bribe to theappellant began.  They met in 1950.  Rs. 10 was paid to	 theappellant in October, 1951, and Rs. 15 in January, 1952,  asthe  result  of	 the appellant asking  Doraiswamy  for	somegratification  for  speedy and favourable  disposal  of	 hisclaim  cases.	The  appellant was at  that  time  AssistantSupervisor  of Claim Cases of the Bengal Nagpur	 Railway  ofthe  Vizianagram Section.  On some secret  information,	 theDeputy	  Superintendent   of	Police,	   Special    PoliceEstablishment  at  Puri directed Inspector G. N.  Brahma  tocontact	 Doraiswamy in connection with a report	 of  allegeddishonesty by railway officials.  Brahma met Doraiswamy	 andasked him to meet him again at1001Calcutta  on  May  10, 1952, after the latter  had  filed  acomplaint along with some letters said to have been  writtenby  the appellant.  Permission was obtained from  the  ChiefPresidency  Magistrate,	 Calcutta to investigate  the  case.Thereafter  Doraiswamy met the appellant in Calcutta and  itwas settled that the former would pay the latter Rs. 100  onMay  12,  1952,	 at  6 p. m.  at  the  India  Coffee  House.Doraiswamy  informed the police of the arrangement.   Markedtenrupee  currency  notes  were given  to  Doraiswamy.	 Theappellant  and Doraiswamy met at the India Coffee  House  asarranged.   There was a talk between them  about  expeditingthe claim cases which were being dealt with by the appellantand  a	list of them was given to him.	This  list  and	 thebundle	of marked currency notes which Doraiswamy  gave	 himwere  put  in  the left upper pocket of	 his  shirt  by	 theappellant.   The Inspectors H. K. Mukherjee and S. B.  Mitraalong with G. N. Gosh, an Assistant Director of Postal	Ser-vices  and Brahma came up to the appellant.  He was  accusedby the police of having received 10 ten-rupee currency notesas  bribe  from Doraiswamy and was asked  to  produce  them.After  some hesitation the appellant produced  the  currencynotes  as well as the list given to him by Doraiswamy.	 Thenumber of the currency notes were checked and found to tallywith  the  previously noted numbers of	the  currency  notesgiven to Doraiswamy for handing them over to the  appellant.The case of the prosecution was found to have been proved byboth  the courts below and the appellant was  convicted	 andsentenced as statedabove.It may be stated at the outset that the concurrent  findingsof  fact arrived at by the courts below were not  questionedbefore	us.   The  only question  canvassed  before  us	 waswhether there had been a valid sanction given under s. 6  ofthe Act without which no court could take cognizance of	 theoffences alleged to have been committed by the appellant.In order to appreciate the submission made by Mr. Chatterjeein  this connection, a few facts have to be stated and	somereference to the evidence of1002Mr.  Bokil, P.W. 5, Chief Commercial Superintendent  of	 theEastern Railway at Calcutta will be necessary.The appellant as Assistant Supervisor of Claim Cases of	 thethen  Bengal Nagpur Railway (later the Eastern Railway)	 hadthe  power to deal finally with claims up to Rs. 75 and	 forclaims in excess of that sum to make a recommendation to hissuperior  officer, the Assistant Commercial  Superintendent.Doraiswamy was working on behalf of several persons who	 hadmade claims against the Railway.  These cases were numerous.All these cases had to be dealt with by the appellant eitherby  passing final orders himself, if the value in each	casewas  Rs.  75  or less, or by recommending  to  his  superiorofficer	 the  cases where the value of the  claim,  in	eachcase, was more than Rs. 75.  The appellant, therefore, beingincharge of all the claim cases played an important part  intheir disposal either by passing final orders himself or  bymaking recommendations.	 When the appellant was paid Rs. 100at  the India Coffee House on May 12, 1952, he was found  inpossession  of	the marked currency notes and  the  list  ofcases,	in which claims had been made, which had been  givento  him by Doraiswamy.	Sanction for the prosecution of	 theappellant    was   sought   from   the	 Chief	  CommercialSuperintendent	Mr. Bokil, P.W. 5. There is no dispute	thatMr.  Bokil  was	 competent to grant the	 sanction.   He	 hadstated in his evidence that before according the sanction hewent through all the relevant papers and was satisfied	thatin  the	 interests  of	justice	 the  appellant	 should	  beprosecuted.   He, accordingly, gave the sanction in  writingand  this  document was marked as Ex. 6. Exhibit  6  clearlystates	that the appellant had demanded on May 12, 1952,  asbribe  the sum of Rs. 100 from Doraiswamy and  had  acceptedthe  sum  as a motive or reward for  speedy  and  favourablesettlement  of the claim cases, that Mr. Bokil	had  appliedhis mind to the facts and the circumstances of the case	 andwas  satisfied	that  in  the  interests  of  justice,	 theappellant should be put on his trial in a Court of competentjurisdiction  for offences under s. 161 of the Indian  PenalCode and s. 5(2) of the Act alleged to have been1003committed by him.  He, accordingly, under the provisions  ofs. 6 of the Act, accorded his sanction that the appellant beprosecuted  in a competent court of law for the	 offence  ofhaving accepted illegal gratification as a motive or  rewardfor  showing  favour to Doraiswamy in respect of  the  claimcases filed against the Vizianagram Section of the Railway.Exhibit 6 on the face of it and the evidence of Mr. Bokil inexamination-in-chief clearly establish that a valid sanctionhad  been  accorded by Mr. Bokil.  It  was,  however,  urgedbefore the Special Judge, as it was urged in the High Court,that  certain  statements  made	 by  Mr.  Bokil	 in   cross-examination clearly showed that he had not applied his	mindto the facts and circumstances of the case and the  sanctionaccorded  by  him was not a valid one.	 The  Special  Judgerejected this contention and was satisfied that Ex. 6 on theface of it disclosed a valid sanction for the prosecution ofthe  appellant.	  The learned Judges of the High  Court	 whoheard the appeal were also satisfied that Mr. Bokil had,  infact, applied his mind to the facts and circumstances of thecase.  Regarding the statements made by Mr. Bokil in  cross-examination they were of the opinion that they did not	showthat  he  did not apply his mind to the facts of  the  case.These  statements merely showed that he did not	 investigatethe  truth of the case presented against the appellant.	  Anapplication  was filed in the High Court under Art.  134  ofthe Constitution for the granting of a certificate that	 thecase  was  a fit one for appeal to this	 Court.	  The  ordergranting  the certificate shows that the learned Judges	 whoheard the application were of the opinion that the  sanctionaccorded in this case was not a valid sanction.	 The learnedJudges were of the -opinion that the question whether or notthere  was  a  proper sanction in the case  was	 a  questionserious enough to justify the granting of a certificate.It  is	necessary therefore to decide whether  the  sanctionaccorded  in this case was a valid sanction.  The  substanceof  the sanction has already been stated but in	 order	thatthere may be no misunderstanding we quote the very words  ofthe sanction itself:1004"  Whereas  a complaint was made against  Shri	Indu  BhusanChatterjee,  Assistant	Supervisor,  Claims, of	 the  B.  N.Railway	 (now Eastern Railway) Garden Reach,  Calcutta,	 wholooked	after  the claims cases against the Railway  of	 theVizianagram  Section, that the said Indu  Bhusan  Chatterjeehad demanded and on 12th May, 1952, accepted a bribe of	 Rs.100 (Rupees one hundred only) from Shri V. S. Doraiswamy  ofthe  Commercial	 Claims Bureau, Vizianagram as a  motive  orreward	for speedy and favourable settlement of	 the  claimscases  of  the Commercial Claims Bureau and  thereby  havingcommitted  an offence punishable under Section 161 1. P.  C.and also the  offence of criminal misconduct by the  illegaland corrupt use of his official position as a public servantto obtain a pecuniary advantage for himself punishable underSection	 5(2)  read  with Section 5(1), clause	(d)  of	 thePrevention  of	Corruption Act II of 1947, 1, R.  K.  Bokil,Chief Commercial Superintendent, Eastern Railway,  Calcutta,having applied my mind to the facts and circumstances of thecase,  am  satisfied,  and am of the  opinion  that  in	 theinterests of justice, Shri Indu Bhusan Chatterjee, AssistantSupervisor, Claims, Eastern Railway, Garden Reach, Calcutta,be put on his trial in a Court of competent jurisdiction forthe offences alleged against him.  That as Shri Indu  BhusanChatterjee,  Assistant Supervisor, Claims, Eastern  Railway,Garden Reach, Calcutta, is removable from his office by	 me;I therefore by virtue of the powers vested in me by  Section6(c)  of  the Prevention of Corruption Act II  of  1947,  dohereby	accord sanction that Shri Indu Bhusan Chatterjee  beprosecuted  in a competent Court of law for the	 offence  ofhaving	accepted  an illegal gratification as  a  motive  orreward	for showing favour to Shri V.S. Doraiswamy,  in	 hisofficial functions viz., the settlement of the cases of	 theVizianagram  Section  of Eastern Railway,  punishable  underSection	  161  I.P.C.  and  for	 the  offence  of   criminalmisconduct  for the corrupt and illegal use of his  officialposition  to  obtain  a	 pecuniary  advantage  for   himselfpunishable   under  Section  5(2)  of  the   Prevention	  ofCorruption Act (Act II of 1947)."1005In  our opinion, this sanction clearly states all the  factswhich  concern the prosecution case alleged against the	 theappellant  with reference to his acceptance of Rs. 100	fromDoraiswamy  on	May  12,1952,  in  circumstances  which,  ifestablished, would constitute offences under s. 161,  IndianPenal  Code  and  s. 5(2) of the  Act.	 The  sanction	alsoclearly	 states that Mr. Bokil had applied his mind and	 wasof  the	 opinion  that	in  the	 interests  of	justice	 theappellant  should be prosecuted.  The charge framed  againstthe  appellant at his trial was with reference to this	veryincident  and none other.  What more facts were required  tobe   stated  in	 the  sanction	itself	we  are	 unable	  tounderstand.  Mr. Bokil in his examination-in-chief stated  "On  the	 prayer of the police, I accorded  sanction  to	 theprosecution  of	 one  Shri  I. B.  Chatterjee  who  was	 theAssistant Supervisor of Claims.	 Before according sanction Iwent  through all relevant papers and was satisfied that  inthe  interest  of  justice, Sri I.B.  Chatterjee  should  beprosecuted.  This is the sanction marked Ex. 6 ". In  cross-examination,  however,	he made the following  statement:  "This  sanction Ex. 6 was prepared by the police and  it	 wasput  before me by the personnel branch of my office.  I	 didnot call for any record in connection with this matter	frommy office.  I did not call for the connected claim cases nordid I enquire about the position of those claim cases."	 Thelearned Judges in granting the certificate, apparently, wereimpressed  by  the  statement of Mr. Bokil that	 Ex.  6	 wasprepared  by the police and put before him by the  personnelbranch	of  his office, because the  learned  Chief  Justiceobserved,  "I  can hardly imagine the duty of  granting	 theproper sanction being properly discharged by merely  puttingone's  signature on a ready-made sanction presented  by	 thepolice." It seems to us that Mr. Bokil's statement does	 notprove  that  he	 merely put his	 signature  on	a  readymadesanction  presented by the police.  It is true that  he	 didnot himself dictate or draft the sanction, but Mr. Bokil hasstated	in the clearest terms, in his  examination-in-chief,that  before  be accorded sanction he went through  all	 therelevant papers.  There is no1006reason to distrust this statement of Mr. Bokil, nor has	 theHigh Court, while granting the certificate of fitness,	doneso.  He was an officer of high rank in the Railway and	musthave  been fully aware that the responsibility of  accordingthe sanction against an official of the Railway	 subordinateto him lay upon him.  It is inconceivable that an officer ofthe rank of Mr. Bokil would blindly sign a ready-made  sanc-tion  prepared	by  the police.	  Apparently,  the  sanctionalready drafted contained all the material facts upon  whichthe  prosecution was to be launched, if at  all,  concerningthe  acceptance	 of the bribe by the appellant	on  May	 12,1952.  When Ex. 6 was placed before Mr. Bokil other relevantpapers were also placed before him.  It is significant	thatMr.  Bokil  was	 not  crossexamined as	to  what  the  otherrelevant  papers  were and in the absence  of  any  questionbeing put to Mr. Bokil we must accept his statement that thepapers placed before him were relevant to the only  questionbefore	him  whether  he should or  should  not	 accord	 hissanction  to  the prosecution of the appellant.	  Mr.  Bokilsaid,  and we see no reason to distrust his statement,	thatbefore	he accorded his sanction lie went through all  thesepapers	and  after being satisfied that sanction  should  begiven he accorded his sanction.	 It is true that he did	 notcall  for any record in connection with the matter from	 hisoffice nor did he call for the connected claim cases or findout as to how they stood.  It was not for Mr. Bokil to judgethe  truth of the allegations made against the appellant  bycalling	 for  the records of the connected  claim  cases  orother records in connection with the matter from his office.The papers which were placed before him apparently gave	 himthe  necessary	material upon which he decided that  it	 wasnecessary in the ends of justice to accord his sanction.Reliance  was  placed on the case  of  Gokulchand  DwarkadasMorarka	 v.  The  King(1) and other cases, to  which  it  isunnecessary to refer, in support of the submission on behalfof the appellant that the sanction accorded was not a  validsanction.  A careful reading,(1)  (1948) L.R. 75 I.A. 30.1007however,  of  Morarka's	 case  (1)  satisfies  us  that	 thesanction accorded in this case in no way conflicts with	 theobservations  of their Lordships of the Judicial  Committee.On the contrary, in our opinion, it is in keeping with them.None of the other cases cited by the learned Counsel for theappellant assist us in the matter.  When the sanction itselfand the evidence of Mr. Bokil are carefully scrutinized	 andread  together there can be little doubt that  the  sanctionaccorded  was  a valid sanction.  The only point  which	 hadbeen argued before us and which was the expressed reason forthe  granting of the certificate having failed,	 the  appealmust  be  dismissed and the decision of the  High  Court  inupholding the conviction and sentence of the appellant	mustbe upheld.Appeal dismissed.