PETITIONER:IN THE MATTER OFD AN ADVOCATE OF THE SUPREME COURT.	Vs.RESPONDENT:DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/11/1955BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANBENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANMUKHERJEE, BIJAN KR. (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMACITATION: 1956 AIR  102		  1955 SCR  (2)1006ACT:Bar   Councils	 Act-Misconduct	 in  capacity	other	thanprofessional-Jurisdiction of Court-Bar Councils Act (XXXVIIIof 1926), s.   10-Supreme Court Rules, Order IV, Rule 30.HEADNOTE:Section	 10  of the Bar Councils Act confers  on  the  Courtjurisdiction to take disciplinary action against an Advocatenot  merely  for  professional	misconduct  but	 any   othermisconduct  committed  in  any other capacity  as  well	 andleaves	it to the Court's discretion to take such action  asit thinks fit in any suitable case.The  Advocate-General of Bombay v. Three  Advocates  ([1934]I.L.R.	69  Bom. 57), In the matter of an  Advocate  ([1936]T.L.R. 63 Cal. 867) and In re a Pleader (I.L.R. [1943]	Mad.595), referred to.In re Thomas James Wallace ([1866] L.R. I P.C. 283), and  Inre  an	Advocate of Benares (A.I.R. [1932] All.	 492),	heldinapplicable.Consequently, in a case where an Advocate figuring as an ac-cused  in  a  case  under the  Bombay  Prohibition  Act	 waspersistently   rude  to	 and  contemptuous  of	 the   trialMagistrate and did all in his power to hold up the trial andbring  the administration of justice into contempt,  be	 wasguilty of misconduct and as such was liable to be  suspendedfrom practice.JUDGMENT:Din personM.  C.	Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,  as  amicuscuriae,10071955.  November 23. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyDAS  J.-This Rule was issued by this Court under  Order	 IV,rule 30 of the Rules of this Court after receipt of a reportfrom the Bombay High Court that that High Court had, by	 itsorder made on the 13th October 1955 in Civil Application No.1506  of 1955, suspended the respondent from practice as  anAdvocate  of that High Court for a period of one  year	fromthe date of the said order.  By the rule the respondent	 hasbeen  required	to  show cause why, in view  of	 the  matterspecified in the judgment and order of the Bombay High Courtreferred  to  above,  appropriate  action,  disciplinary  orotherwise, should not be taken against him by this Court.The respondent is an Advocate of some standing in the BombayHigh  Court and as such was also enrolled as an Advocate  ofthis Court.  It appears that in the earlier part of the year1953 the Advocate was prosecuted before Mr. Sonavane, one ofthe Presidency Magistrates at Bombay, on a charge of  havingcommitted an offence under the Bombay Prohibition Act.	 Thetrial  lasted from July 1953 to November 1953.	On the	18thNovember  1953 the Magistrate convicted the Advocate of	 theoffence	 with  which  he was charged and  sentenced  him  torigorous imprisonment for one month and to a fine of Rs. 201and  to	 rigorous imprisonment of four weeks in	 default  ofpayment of the fine.  The Advocate went up on appeal to	 theHigh Court.  The High Court on the 24th February 1954 upheldthe  conviction but altered the sentence to one of  fine  ofRs. 1,000 only.In  the	 meantime,  on the 25th	 November  1953,  the  trialMagistrate,  Mr.  Sonavane, made a report to  the  Registrar(Appellate Side) of the Bombay High Court as to the  conductof the Advocate who appeared in person as the accused beforehim.   On  a perusal of that report the	 Hon'ble  the  ChiefJustice	 of  the Bombay High Court  constituted	 a  Tribunalconsisting  of three members of the Bar Council	 to  enquireinto  the  conduct of the Advocate.  The Tribunal  issued  asummons1008against	 the Advocate intimating that it would enquire	intohis conduct as disclosed in:-(a)the	report	dated the 25th November 1953 of Shri  T.  A.Sonavane,  B.A., LL.B., Presidency Magistrate,	18th  Court,Girgaum,  Bombay,  to the Registrar, High  Court,  AppellateSide, Bombay, regarding Case No. 593/P of 1953 tried by him,and(b) the judgment recorded by the High Court of Judicature atBombay	in Criminal Appeal No. 1532 of 1953  (with  CriminalAppeal No. 1564 of 1953) upholding the judgment and order ofconviction  passed  against  him by  the  aforesaid  learnedMagistrate in the aforesaid case.The  proceedings appear to have been somewhat protracted  byreason	of frequent objections made and petitions  filed  bythe  respondent	 but eventually on or about the	 16th  March1955  the respondent forwarded to the Secretary to  the	 BarCouncil Tribunal a copy of a letter addressed by him to	 theRegistrar, High Court, Bombay, and requested the Tribunal tosend  a	 report to the High Court in terms of  his  pleadingguilty	to the charges levelled against him.   He  concludedthe  letter by expressing regret for having wasted the	timeof  the	 Tribunal.   In his letter  to	the  Registrar,	 therespondent    enclosed	  a   separate	  written    apologyunconditionally	  withdrawing	his  contention	  that	 theproceedings before the Tribunal were misconceived in law andadmitting  that the High Court had full authority in law  torefer  the  matter to the Bar Council Tribunal	and  furtherthat the statements made by Mr. Sonavane in his report	weretrue except in two respects therein specified.	On the	28thMarch 1955 the respondent submitted an additional  statementclarifying   and   supplementing   his	 previous   apology.Thereupon the Tribunal made a report to the High Court.	  Bythis  report  the  Tribunal held, on  the  respondent's	 ownadmission., the allegations in the report of Mr. Sonavane tobe proved and recommended that a very serious notice  shouldbe taken of the respondent's conduct.  As regards the seconditem  in  the  summons	the  Tribunal  held  that  the	mereconviction  of the respondent under the Prohibition Act	 didnot amount1009to professional or other misconduct under section 10 of	 theIndian Bar Councils Act and, therefore, found him not guiltyof that charge.On a perusal of that report the High Court issued notice  tothe respondent for final hearing of the matter.	 The  mattercame up for final disposal before a Bench consisting of	 theChief  Justice and Tendolkar, J. on the 13th  October  1955.Learned	 counsel  appearing for the  respondent	 offered  anunconditional  and  unqualified	 apology on  behalf  of	 therespondent and pleaded that the ends of justice would be metif the Court only administered a warning to the	 respondent.After considering the report of the Tribunal the High  Courttook  the view that the misconduct of the respondent was  soserious	 and  so grave that a deterrent punishment  must  beimposed	  on  him.   Accordingly,  taking  everything	intoconsideration, the High Court suspended the respondent	frompractice  for  a period of one year from the  date  of	thatorder.	 The respondent's application for a  certificate  offitness	 for appeal to this Court having been  refused,	 therespondent  filed  a petition for special  leave  to  appealbefore us. That petition has, however, been dismissed by us.The  rule  for disciplinary action now remains to  be  dealtwith.In answer to the rule the respondent has filed a petition byway of showing cause.  Paragraph 7 of that petition runs  asfollows:-"7.  That the report of the learned  Presidency	 Magistrate,18th Court, is a highly exaggerated, garbled and  manifestlyincorrect version of the incidents that occurred during	 thetrial  of the case.  And looking to the circumstances  underwhich the petitioner was more or less compelled to tender  ahumiliating apology, this Hon'ble Court be pleased to directthat a proper inquiry be held in the matter by or under	 thedirections of this Hon'ble Court".Appearing  in person before us the respondent has  contendedwith  a certain amount of vehemence that he had not had	 anyfair  deal  before the Tribunal, that the  Tribunal  had  nojurisdiction  to  enter	 upon the enquiry  inasmuch  as	 themisconduct complained of1010was not committed by him in his capacity as an Advocate, forhe  appeared  in person as the accused	in  the	 Prohibitioncase, that the Tribunal had at one stage held that it had nojurisdiction but had without giving him a hearing gone	backon that decision and declined to decide that question in hispresence,  that the Tribunal failed to formulate any  formalcharge, that he made an application to the High Court  underarticle	 227  for  quashing  the  proceedings  for  want  ofjurisdiction   but   the  High	Court  had   rejected	thatapplication  and  declined  to give  him  a  certificate  offitness	 for  appeal to this Court and pointed	out  variousother  matters which he characterised as  showing  prejudiceand bias on the part of the Tribunal.It  was pointed out to the respondent that  his	 applicationfor  special leave to appeal from the judgment and order  ofthe  High Court having been dismissed we were not,  in	thisRule,  concerned  with the proceedings in  the	Bombay	HighCourt or before the Tribunal of the Bar Council as  observedby  this Court in In the matter of Mr. G, a Senior  Advocateof the Supreme Court(1).  The respondent then fell back uponparagraph  7  of his petition quoted above  and	 asked	thisCourt  to  hold a fresh enquiry into the matter.   From	 thejudgment  of the Bombay High Court which is referred  to  inthe  Rule issued herein it appears that the  respondent	 hadadmitted the truth of everything contained in Mr. Sonavane'sreport	except	two matters only.  In his  present  petitionshowing	 cause	he does not, apart from a  vague  allegationthat  the report is an exaggerated, garbled  and  manifestlyincorrect version of the incidents that occurred during	 thetrial of the case, refer to any particular statement thereinwhich is exaggerated, garbled or incorrect.  In view of	 hisunconditional  admission of the truth of the  statements  inthe report of Mr. Sonavane we are not prepared to permit himto  go back on the same on such vague allegations as are  tobe found in paragraph 7 of his petition.  It is needless forus  to	emphasise  that a  person  holding  the	 responsibleposition of an Advocate of a High Court(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 490, 495.1011and of this Court cannot be permitted to play with the Courtin  the	 way  this  Advocate  has  done.   He  admitted	 thecorrectness of the report, confessed his guilt and  tenderedan unconditional apology evidently in the hope that he wouldget  away with it by merely tendering an  apology.   Findingthat  the  tactics did not work with the High  Court  as  heexpected the same to do, he now wants -to change his tacticsby  asking  for an enquiry which he had himself	 avoided  bymeans  of his admission and apology.  This we are  not	pre-pared  to permit him to do.  We have carefully gone  throughthe  report of Mr. Sonavane and we find ourselves in  entireagreement with the High Court when it says that that  reportmakes  an  extremely  sad  reading.   The  conduct  of	 therespondent in the criminal trial was, as pointed out by	 theHigh  Court,  entirely	indefensible by	 any  standard.	  Itdiscloses a continuous and persistent attempt on the part ofthe  respondent	 to  be	 rude to  and  contemptuous  of	 theMagistrate, to hold up the trial and to do everything in hispower to bring the administration of justice into  contempt.Such a conduct, in our opinion, merits severe condemnation.The respondent has drawn our attention to the case of In  reThomas	James  Wallace(1)  which was followed in  In  re  AnAdvocate  of Benares(2).  We do not conceive that the  PrivyCouncil intended to lay down any fixed and rigid rule of lawor did anything more than indicate the course which, in	 thecircumstances of that case, it considered to be	 reasonable,satisfactory  and convenient and the Allahabad	case  simplyfollowed the same.  As has been held by a Full Bench of	 theBombay High Court in The Advocate-General of Bombay v. ThreeAdvocates(3),  the  Indian Legislature by  using  the  words"professional  or  other misconduct" in section	 10  of	 theIndian	Bar  Councils Act intended to confer  on  the  Courtdisciplinary  jurisdiction  to take action in all  cases  ofmisconduct  whether  in	 a professional	 or  other  capacityleaving it to the discretion of Court to take action only insuitable(1) [1866] L.R. I.P.C. 283.    (2) A.I.R. 1932 All. 492.(3) [1934] I.L.R. 59 Bom. 57.1281012cases.	 To  the like effect is the decision  of  a  SpecialBench  of  the Calcutta High Court in In the  matter  Of  anAdvocate,(1).  The pleader concerned in the case of In re  aPleader(2) was certainly not, by shouting slogans in  Court,functioning  as an Advocate, nevertheless he was dealt	withunder	section	 13(f)	of  the	 Legal	Practitioners	Act.Wallace's  case (supra) was not a decision on any  statutoryprovision such as we have in the Legal Practitioners Act  orthe Bar Councils Act.For  the reasons stated above and in view of the conduct  ofthe   Advocate	seen  in  the  light  of   the	 surroundingcircumstances  we are clearly of opinion that  the  Advocateshould, by reason of his having indulged in conduct unworthyof  a  member  of  the honourable  profession  to  which  hebelongs, be suspended from practice for some time.  He is anAdvocate of this Court and according to a majority  decisionof this Court he is entitled, under the Supreme Court  Advo-cates  (Practice  in  High  Courts)  Act,  to  exercise	 hisprofession in all Courts throughout the Union of India.	 Anysuspension  for a period less than the period fixed  by	 theBombay High Court will obviously lead to serious anomaly andinconvenience.	 We  accordingly direct	 that  the  Advocateconcerned  be  suspended  from practice	 for  a	 period	 co-terminous with the period of suspension fixed by the  BombayHigh Court, namely, up to the 13th October, 1956.(1)  [1936] I.L.R. 63 Cal. 867.(2)  I.L.R. [1943] Mad. 459.1013