PETITIONER:J. C. JAIN	Vs.RESPONDENT:R.   A. PATHAK AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/01/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  619		  1960 SCR  (2) 701ACT:Payment	 of Wages-Employer's right of  appeal--When  accrues-Payment  of  Wages Act, 1936 (4 of 1936),  ss.	 15(3),	 16,17(1) (a).HEADNOTE:The expression " the total sum directed to be paid " used ins.  17(1)  (a) of the Payment of Wages Act,  1936,  properlyconstrued,  does not mean the total sum directed to be	paidto  each  individual applicant.	 Consequently,	an  employeragainst whom a direction for payment is made under s.  15(3)of the Act has a right of appeal under S. 17(1) (a) not onlywhen  a single applicant is awarded a sum exceeding Rs.	 300but also when an award of a like amount is made on a  singleapplication  made  under s. 16(2) of the Act  on  behalf  ofseveral	 employees belonging to the same unpaid group or  onseveral	 applications consolidated into one under  s.  16(3)thereof.  Section 17(1) (a) does not contemplate that beforethe right to appeal can accrue to the employer in the lattercase  each individual applicant must be awarded Rs.  300  ormore.Since  the language of the statute is clear and	 unambiguousno consideration of any possible hypothetical anomaly can beallowed to affect its plain meaning.Laxman Pandu and Others v. Chief Mechanical Engineer,  West-ern Railway (B.	 B. and C. I. Railway), Lower Parel, Bombay.(1957) 57 B.L.R. 399, overruled.Union  of India, Owning the South Indian Railway by  GeneralManager	 v.  S.	 P. Nataraja Sastrigal & Ors.	A.I.K.	1952Mad.  808; A. C. Arumugam & Ors. v. Manager,  Jawahar  MillsLtd.,  Salem  junction, A.I.R. 1956 Mad. 79;  Promod  RanjanSarkar v. R. N. Mullick, A.I.R. 1959 Cal. 318 and Cachar ChaSramik	Union  v.  Manager, Martycherra Tea  Estate  &	Anr.A.I.R. 1959 Assam 13, approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal'.  No.75 of 1956.Appeal by special leave from judgment and order dated  March17, 1955, of the Small Causes Court, Bombay, in Appeal No. 1of 1955.M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, S. N. Andley,  J.B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellant.K.   B. Choudhuri, for the respondents.7021960.  January 12.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR J.-When does an employer get  a	 right	  toprefer	an appeal against a direction made under sub-s.	 (3)of  s.	15 of the Payment of Wages Act,	  1936	(4  of 1936)(hereinafter  called the Act)?	That is the  short  questionwhich  arises for our decision in the present group of	fourappeals.   The	decision  of this question  depends  on	 theconstruction  of s. 17 (1)(a) of the Act.  In  dealing	withthe  question thus posed by the present group of appeals  wewill refer to the facts in Civil Appeal No. 75 of 1956,	 andour decision in it would govern the three remaining appeals.Civil  Appeal No.75 of 1956 which has been brought  to	thisCourt  by  special leave arises from a dispute	between	 theGeneral Manager of the Times of India Press., Bombay,  ownedby  Benett  Coleman  & Co,  Ltd.,  (hereinafter	 called	 theappellant)  and	 some  of  the	employees  in  his   service(hereinafter  called  the respondents).	 In  November  1953,1,066  applications were made by the Vice-President  of	 theTimes  of India Indian Employees Union on behalf of some  ofthe  respondents before Mr. C. P. Fernandes,  the  authorityappointed  under  the  Act in which a  claim  was  made	 forarrears	 of increments alleged to have been withheld by	 theappellant from July 1, 1951, to September 30, 1953, as	alsofor  increased dearness allowance from January 1,  1953,  toAugust	31, 1953.  The authority dealt with the whole  groupof  the said applications as a single application  under  s.16(3)  of  the	Act, and held that the	claim  made  by	 therespondents   for  increased  dearness	allowance  was	 notjustified.- In regard to the claim of arrears of  incrementsalleged	 to  have been withheld the authority  rejected	 theclaim made by 761 employees and allowed the same in  respectof  305	 employees.  In the result the order passed  by	 theauthority  on 31-12-1954 directed the appellant	 to  depositRs. 22,698 for payment to the said 305 employees.The direction thus issued by the authority gave rise to	 twoappeals	 before the Small Causes Court at Bombay,  which  isthe appellate authority appointed			    703under  the  Act.   Appeal No. 11 of 1955 was  filed  by	 theappellant  while  Appeal No. 187 of 1954 was  filed  by	 therespondents.  Meanwhile the question about the extent of theright  conferred on the employer to prefer an appeal  by  s.17(1)(a)  of the Act had been considered by the Bombay	HighCourt  in Laxman Pandu & Ors. v. Chief Mechanical  Engineer,Western	 Railway (B.B. & C.I. Railway), Lower Parel,  Bombay(1);  and it had been held that under the said	section	 theemployer  gets	a right of appeal only if the order  of	 theauthority  under the Act awards payment of an amount of	 Rs.300  or more in respect of a single individual	worker;	 theright does not exist if the order awards a sum exceeding Rs.300 collectively to an unpaid group of workers every one  ofwhom gets an amount under Rs. 300.  Following this  decisionthe  appellate authority held that the appeal  preferred  bythe  appellant	was incompetent and so	dismissed  it.	 Theappellant  then applied for and obtained special leave	fromthis  Court to prefer an appeal against the  said  appellatedecision;  and	so the main point raised by  the  appeal  isabout the construction of s. 17(1)(a) of the Act.The Act has been passed in 1936 with a view to regulate	 thepayment	 of wages to certain classes of persons employed  inindustry.   Section  15(1) of the Act authorises  the  StateGovernment  by	notification  in  the  official	 Gazette  toappoint any Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation or otherofficer with experience as a Judge of a Civil Court or as  astipendiary  Magistrate	 to  be the authority  to  hear	 anddecide	for  any specified area all claims  arising  out  ofdeductions  from the wages, or delay in payment of wages  ofpersons	 employed  or  paid in that  area.   Section  7	 hasprovided  for deductions which may be made from wages.	 Anydeductions made not in accordance with the said section	 andcontrary  to the provisions of the Act as well as wages	 thepayment of which has been delayed can be brought before	 theauthority under sub-s- (2) of s. 15.  Sub-section (3) of  s.15 empowers the authority to deal with the applications madeunder sub-s. (2) and to direct a refund to(1) (1953) 57 B.L.R. 399,704the employed person of the amount deducted or the payment ofdelayed wages together with the payment of such compensationas the authority may think fit, not exceeding ten times	 theamount deducted in the former case and not exceeding Rs.  10in the latter.	Sub-section (4) provides that in cases wherethe authority is satisfied that the application made by	 theemployee  was  either malicious or vexatious it	 may  directthat a penalty not exceeding Rs. 50 be paid to the  employeror other persons responsible for the payment of wages by theapplicant.   It would thus be seen that s. 15  provides	 forthe  making of applications by the employees and  for  theirdecision  in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	  Itis  necessary to refer to s. 16 as well before dealing	withthe question of the construction of s. 17(1)(a).  Section 16provides  for the making of a single application in  respectof  claims from unpaid group.  Section 16(1)  provides	thatemployed persons are said to belong to the same unpaid groupif  they  are borne on the same establishment and  if  theirwages  for the same period or periods have  remained  unpaidafter  the day fixed by s. 5. Sub-section (2)  provides	 forthe making of a single application under s. 15 on behalf  ofor in respect of any number of employed persons belonging tothe  same unpaid group, and prescribes that in such  a	casethe  maximum compensation that may be awarded  under  sub-s.(3) of s. 15 shall be Rs. 10 per head.	Subsection (3)	thenprovides  that	the authority may deal with  any  number  ofseparate  pending  applications	 presented under  s.  15  inrespect	 of persons belonging to the same unpaid group as  asingle	application presented under sub-s. (2) of  the	saidsection, and the provisions of that sub-section shall  applyaccordingly.   Thus  the effect of s. 16 is  that  a  singleapplication may be made on behalf of any number of  employedpersons	 belonging to the same unpaid group, or if  separateapplications  are made by employed persons belonging to	 thesame  unpaid group they may be consolidated and tried  as  asingle application.Let  us now read s. 17 which provides for appeals.   Section17(1) provides that an appeal against a			    705direction made under sub-s. (3) or sub-s. (4) of s 15 may bepreferred  within  thirty  days of the	date  on  which	 thedirection was made, in a Presidency-town before the Court ofSmall Causes and elsewhere before the District Court-(a)  bythe employer or other person responsible for the payment  ofwages  under s. 3, if the total sum directed to be  paid  byway of wages and compensation exceeds Rs. 300, or (b) by  anemployed  person,  if the total amount of wages	 claimed  tohave  been  withheld from him or from the  unpaid  group  towhich  he  belonged  exceeds Rs. 50, or (c)  by	 any  persondirected  to pay a penalty under sub.s. (4) of s. 15.	Sub-section (2) of s. 17 makes the directions made under  sub-s.(3) -and sub-s. (4) of s. 15 final save as provided in	sub-s. (1).On a plain reading of s. 17(1)(a) it seems fairly clear thatthe  only  test which has to be satisfied by  the  appellantbefore preferring an appeal against a direction issued unders.  15(3) is that the total sum directed to be paid  by	 himshould exceed Rs. 300.	Where a single application has	beenmade on behalf of a number of employed persons belonging  tothe  same  unpaid  group  under s. 16,	sub-s.	(2),  and  adirection  has been issued for the payment of the  specifiedamount,	 it  is	 the  said specified  amount  that  must  beconsidered  in	deciding whether the test prescribed  by  s.17(1)(a) is satisfied or not.  The view taken by the  BombayHigh Court, however, is that s. 17(1)(a) is applicable	onlywhere  the  amount  directed  to  be  paid  to	each  singleapplicant exceeds Rs. 300.  In other words, on this view theexpression " the total sum directed to be paid " used in  s.17(1)(a)  is construed to mean the total sum directed to  bepaid to each individual applicant, and that clearly involvesthe  addition  of  certain words in  the  section.   If	 theapplication  is made by a single employee an appeal  can  bepreferred  by the employer against the direction  issued  insuch an application if the total sum directed to be paid  tothe  applicant exceeds Rs. 300; but if a single	 applicationis made on behalf of several employees belonging to the sameunpaid	group  the  test  to be applied	 is  not  whether  adirection has been issued that the employer99706should	pay Rs. 300 or more to each one of  the	 applicants;the test clearly is whether a direction has been  issued  onthe said single application calling upon the employer to payto the applicants Rs. 300 or more.	Reading s.  17(1)(a)by itself we feel no difficulty in reaching this conclusion.It  is,	 however, urged that in construing  s.	17(1)(a)  itwould  be relevant and material to compare and contrast	 itsprovisions  with  those	 of cl. (b) of s.  17,	sub-s.	(1).Providing  for	the right of an employee to make  an  appealthis clause requires that the total amount of wages  claimedto  have been withheld from him or from the unpaid group  towhich  he belonged should exceed Rs. 50.  It  is  emphasisedthat  this  clause  refers  expressly  to  the	case  of  anindividual  employee  as  well as  the	cases  of  employeesbelonging to an unpaid group; and the argument is that sincecl. (a) does not use the words " unpaid group " it indicatesthat   the  direction  about  the  payment  of	the   amountprescribed  by	the  said  clause  has	reference  to	eachindividual employee.  We are not impressed by this argument.Since  the  Act	 has provided for the  making  of  a  singleapplication  on	 behalf	 of a  number  of  employed  personsbelonging  to  the  same unpaid group as  well	as  separateapplications  made by individual workmen it was	 unnecessaryto  refer to the persons employed in the unpaid group  whileproviding  for	appeals	 against directions  made  under  s.15(3).	 On the other hand, if the Legislature had  intendedthat  the  right to prefer an appeal should  accrue  to	 theemployer only if Rs. 300 or more are directed to be paid  toeach  individual  employee it would  have  used	 appropriateadditional  words in cl. (a).  Therefore the argument  basedupon the use of the words " unpaid group " in cl. (b) is notof any assistance in construing cl. (a).We  are also inclined to think that it could not  have	beenthe  intention of the Legislature to confer on the  employerthe  right to prefer an appeal only if Rs. 300 or  more	 areordered	 to  be paid to each one of the applicants.   It  istrue  that  the policy of the Act is to provide	 for  speedyremedy	 to  the  employees  in	 respect   of	unauthoriseddeductions made by the employer or707in  respect of delayed wages; and with that object  the	 Actprovides for the appointment of the authority and prescribesthe	 summary     procedure	   for	   the	    decisionof  the claims;butitseemsveryunlikelythatwhereas   an appealby  the employee has been permitted by cl. (b) whenever	 theamount in dispute happens to be Rs. 50 or more in respect ofan  individual applicant  or in respect of the	unpaid groupthe Legislature could have intended that the employer shouldhave  no  right	 of appeal against a direction	made  on  a;single	consolidated  application,  even  though  the  totalliability  flowing  from the said direction may	 exceed	 thespecified  amount of Rs. 300 by several thousands.   In	 thepresent case the amount directed to be paid is more than Rs.22,000	but  it	 has been held that since each	one  of	 theemployees is not ordered to be paid Rs. 300 or more there isno  right of appeal.  On general considerations,  therefore,the  conclusion	 which	we  have  reached  on  a  fair	 andreasonable  construction  of  cl. (a) appears  to  be  well-founded.There  is  another point to which reference  must  be  made.Section 16(3) empowers the authority to consolidate  severalapplications made by individual employees and bear them as asingle application as though it was presented under- s.	 16,sub-s.	(2); and it is urged that this procedural  provisioncannot	and  should  not  have	a  decisive  effect  on	 theemployer's right to prefer an appeal under s. 17(1)(a).	  Ifseveral	 applications made by individual employees  are	 notconsolidated  and  heard as a single  application  under  s.16(3) and separate directions are issued, then the  employerwould  have  the right to prefer an appeal  only  where	 thetotal  amount directed to be paid exceeds Rs. 300.   On	 theother	hand,  if  the	authority  consolidates	  the	saidapplications  and makes a direction in respect of the  totalamount	to be paid to the employees belonging to the  unpaidgroup  the employer may be entitled to make an	appeal	eventhough each one of the employees receives less than Rs. 300.It would be anomalous, it is said, that the right to  appealshould depend upon the exercise of discretion vested in	 theauthority under s. 16(3).  We are unable to see the force ofthis argument.	We apprehend that708ordinarily  when  several  applications	 are  made  by	 theemployees belonging to the same unpaid group the  authoritywould prefer to treat the said applications  as	  a   singleapplication under s. 16(3); but apart from   this  practicalaspect of the matter, if s. 16(3) permits the  consolidationof   the  several  applications	 and  in    consequence	  ofconsolidation  they  are assimilated to the  position  of  asingle	application  contemplated  by  s.  16(2),  the	onlyquestion  which	 has to be considered in  dealing  with	 thecompetence  of	the appeal is to see whether  the  directionappealed  against satisfies the test of s. 17(1)(a), and  onthat  point we feel no hesitation in holding that  the	testprescribed  by s. 17(1)(a) is that the direction  should  befor the payment of an amount exceeding Rs. 300.Besides, we think it would not be right to assume that it isanomalous if different consequences follow from the adoptionof  different procedures in trying employees' claims and  anappeal	does  not lie where several applications  are  triedseparately  while  it lies where  similar  applications	 areheard  as  a  single  application  under  s.  16(3).	Thisdifference  is	clearly	 intended  by  the  Legislature.   Asimilar different consequence is prescribed in the matter ofthe  award  of	compensation by s. 15,	sub-s.	(3)  and  s.16,sub-s.  (2) respectively.  Therefore, the argument  basedon the alleged anomaly cannot have any validity inconstruings. 17(1)(a).Incidentally,  if one or more employees in the	same  unpaidgroup are paid an amount exceeding Rs. 300 and the rest	 arepaid less than Rs. 300, on the alternative construction, theemployer would be entitled to make an appeal only in respectof a workman to whom more than Rs. 300 is ordered to be paidand not against the others though the total amount  directedto be paid to them may exceed by far the amount of Rs.	300.In  such a case, if the appeal preferred by the employer  inrespect	 of  the amount ordered to be paid to  some  of	 theworkmen	  succeeds   that  would   leave   outstanding	 twoconflicting  decisions, with the result that a large  numberof  employees  in the same unpaid group may get	 the  amountunder  the direction of the authority while those  who	wereawarded more709than  Rs.  300 by the authority would get a  smaller  amountunder  the  decision  of the appellate	authority.   We	 arereferring  to this anomalous aspect of the matter  only	 forthe  purpose  of showing that where the words  used  in	 therelevant clause are clear and unambiguous considerations  ofa  possible  hypothetical anomaly cannot  affect  its  plainmeaning.   That is why we prefer to leave anomalies on	bothsides	out  of	 account  and  confine	ourselves   to	 theconstruction of the words used in s. 17(1)(a).	If the	saidwords  had been reasonably capable of two  constructions  itwould  have  been  relevant to consider	 which	of  the	 twoconstructions would avoid any possible anomalies.  We would,therefore, hold that the appellate authority was in error indismissing  the appeal preferred before it by the  appellanton the ground that it was incompetent under s. 17(1)(a).  Wewould  like to add that the question about the	constructionof s. 17(1)(a) has been considered by the Madras High  Court(Union	of  India, owning the South Indian  Railway  by	 theGeneral	 Manager v. S. P. Nataraja Sastrigal & Ors. (1)	 andA. C. Arumugam & Ors. v. Manager, Jawahar Mills Ltd.,  SalemJunction (2), the Calcutta High Court (Promod Ranjan  Sarkarv. R.N. Munllick (3) and Assam High Court (Cachar Cha SramikUnion v. Manager, Martycherra Tea Estate & Anr. (4) and theyhave  all  differed from the view taken by the	Bombay	HighCourt  and have construed s. 17(1)(a) in the same manner  aswe have done. The result is the appeal is allowed, the order of dismissalpassed	by  the	 appellate authority is set  aside  and	 theappeal sent back to it for disposal in accordance with	law.Since  the  hearing of the appeal has been thus	 delayed  wewould direct that the appellate authority should dispose  ofthe   appeal  as  expeditiously	 as  possible.	 Under	 thecircumstances of this case we would direct that the  partiesshould bear their own costs.Appeal allowed.(1) A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 808.  (3) A.I.R. 1959 Cal. 318 S.C.; 63C.W.N. 6.(2) A.I.R. 1956 Mad. 79.  (4) A.I.R. 1959 Assam 13.710