PETITIONER:THE GRAHAM TRADING CO. (INDIA) LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/05/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1151		  1960 SCR  (1) 107ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Puja  Bonus-Customayy  and	 traditionalPayment of-Test.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	had been paying puja bonus  to	its  workmencontinuously  from 1940 to 1952 at the rate of	one  month'swages.	 From 1948 to 1952, the appellant whenever  it	paidthis bonus, made it clear that it was ex gratia payment	 andwould  not  constitute any precedent in future	years.	 Thedispute	 arose regarding the payment of bonus in 1953.	 Theworkmen claimed that the sole object of bonus which had beengranted to them upto that year was to meet puja expenses andthat  the payment of this bonus had become customary  and  aterm  of employment.  The appellant contended that  paymentsin  the past years had been entirely ex gratia and as  therewas loss in 1953 no ex gratia payment could be made in	thatyear.Held, that the workmen were not entitled to puja bonus as animplied	 term of employment for an implied  agreement  couldnot  be inferred when the appellant had made it	 clear	thatthe payments from 1948 to 1952 were ex gratia; but they wereentitled to puja bonus on the basis that it was a  customaryand traditional payment.  In determining whether the paymentwas  customary and traditional the  following  circumstanceshave to be established :(i)  that the payment has been made over an unbroken  seriesof years ;(ii) that  it has been for a sufficiently long	period,	 theperiod has to be longer than in the case of an implied	termof employment;(iii)	  that	it has been paid even in years of  loss	 anddid not depend on   the earning of profits; and(iv) that the payment has been made at a uniform ratethroughout.The  fact that the employer made the payment ex gratia	madeno difference; nor did unilateral declarations of one  partyinconsistent  with  the	 course of  conduct  adopted  by  itmatter.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 161 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  31st January 1956 of the Labour Appellate	Tribunal  atCalcutta in Appeal No. Cal. 301108of  1954,  arising out of the Award dated the  20th  October1954, of the Second Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal.B.   Sen and S. N. Mukherjee, for the appellants.D.   N. Mukherjee, for the respondents.1959.  May 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO	 J.-This  is  an  appeal  by  special  leave  in  anindustrial matter.  The appellant is the Graham Trading	 Co.(India) Ltd. (hereinafter called the company).	There was  adispute	 between  the company and its workmen  about  bonus,which  was referred by the Government of West Bengal by	 itsorder  of  December  17,  1953,	 to  the  Second  IndustrialTribunal.  Though the order of reference did not specify theyear for which the bonus was in dispute, it is common groundbetween the -parties that the dispute was for bonus for	 theyear  1953.   The case of the workmen, who  are	 respondentsbefore us, was that the company had been paying one  month'sbonus  invariably from 1940 to 1950.  In 1951,	one  month'sbonus  was paid in October and half a month's further  bonuswas  paid in December.	In 1952 one month's bonus was  paid.The  demand that the workmen made in their letter of  August27, 1953, was for three month's bonus.	The company  repliedthat payments in past years had been entirely ex gratia	 andas there was loss in 1953 it was not possible to make any exgratia	payment	 that year.  The workmen then  contended  intheir  letter of September 21, 1953 that the sole object  ofbonus  which  had, been granted upto that year was  to	meetpuja expenses and that the payment of this bonus had  becomecustomary and a term of employment.  The matter could not besettled between the parties and that is how the dispute	 wasreferred for adjudication.The  company's case was that payment of bonus had all  alongbeen ex gratia depending upon profits except in a few years.But  in those years it was also made clear that the  paymentwas ex gratia and without creating any precedent for future.Therefore,  there was neither a term of employment  nor	 anycustom,			    109which put any obligation on the company to pay any bonus  ina year of loss.The question was considered by the Industrial Tribunal	fromthree aspects.	Firstly, it considered whether any bonus waspayable	 for this year as profit bonus, on the basis of	 theFull Bench formula evolved in The Mill-Owners'	Association,Bombay, v. The Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, Bombay (1)	 andit  came  to  the conclusion that  there  was  no  availablesurplus of profit to justify such bonus.  It then consideredthe remaining two aspects, namely, whether puja bonus  couldbe  awarded  -either  as  an  implied  term  of	  employmentaccording to the decision in Mahalakshmi Cotton Mills  Ltd.,Calcutta  v. Mahalakshmi Cotton Mills Workers' Union (2)  oron  the	 basis	of custom.  It seems to have  mixed  up	 thediscussion   on	 these	aspects	 and  having  come  to	 theconclusion that puja bonus could not be awarded in this caseon  the basis of an implied term of employment it  proceededto dismiss the claim on the basis of custom also.The  workmen then went up in appeal to the Labour  AppellateTribunal,  which  allowed the appeal.  The decision  of	 theAppellate  Tribunal has also mixed the two aspects  of	pujabonus,	namely,	 whether it is based on an implied  term  ofemployment or on custom; but it came to the conclusion	thatthere  was  sufficient	evidence  to  establish	 custom	 andtherefore ordered payment of one month's basic wages as pujabonus.	It was also inclined to the view that the  company'saccounts showing loss were not reliable and there might evenbe  a case for profit bonus; but eventually it	granted	 onemonth's basic wages as customary puja bonus.  Thereupon	 thecompany filed an application for special leave to appeal  tothis  Court, which was allowed; and that is how	 the  matterhas come up before us.Puja  is  a  special festival of  particular  importance  inBengal; and it has become usual with many firms there to paytheir  employees  bonus	 to  meet  special  puja   expenses.Disputes  have arisen with respect to this bonus which	wereadjudicated upon by various tribunals.	As(1) 1950 L.L.J. 1247.(2) 1952 L. A. C. 370.110for back as 1949, in a dispute between The Bengal Chamber ofCommerce,  Calcutta  and Its Employees (1),  the  IndustrialTribunal, which adjudicated upon the dispute, observed	thatDurga  Puja  was a national festival in Bengal	and  it	 wascustomary  to  make presents to near and dear  ones  and  torelatives at that time.	 As it was difficult for poorly paidemployees to make savings out of the monthly income for thispurpose, it, therefore, had become traditional and customaryin Bengal for employers to make a monetary grant at the timeof  the pujas.	The Bengal Chamber of Commerce had not	beenslow  in  appreciating	this and  had  been  granting  bonusequivalent  to	one month's pay, and the tribunal  had	beenassured	 that  there  was no intention	to  discontinue	 it.Later  the matter was considered in Mahalaxmi  Cotton  Millscase  (2),  where certain tests were laid down	which  wouldjustify	 the  inference that there was an  implied  term  ofemployment  for payment of bonus at the time of	 the  annualDurga  Puja.   That case, however, was concerned  with	pujabonus  as an implied term of employment and not as a  matterof  tradition  or custom in Bengal.  It is,  however,  clearthat  puja bonus which is usually paid in Bengal is  of	 twokinds;	namely, (1) where it is paid as an implied  term  ofemployment  as explained in Mahalaxmi Cotton Mills case	 (2)and  (2)  where, it is paid as a customary  and	 traditionalpayment	 as  stated  in	 the  Industrial  Tribunal's   awardreferred  to  above.   We have considered the  tests  to  beapplied where it is a case of payment on an implied term  ofemployment in Messrs.  Ispahani Ltd. v. Ispahani  Employees'Union  (3) and we need not repeat what we have	said  there.In  the present case it has been pointed out by the  companythat  payments	which had been made in the past	 years	from1940 to 1952 could not be considered as based on an  impliedterm of employment in the circumstances of this cash.	Thiscontention, in our opinion, is correct.	 An implied term  ofemployment cannot be inferred in this case, for right from(1) Publication of Government of West Bengal, I Awards	madeby the Tribunals for the quarter ending March 1949', P. 116.(2)  1952 L.A.C. 370.(3)  [1960](1)1 S.C.R. 24.1111948 to 1952, the company whenever it paid this bonus,	madeit  clear  that it was an ex gratia payment  and  would	 notconstitute  any precedent for future years.  In the face  ofsuch notice year by year it would not be possible to imply aterm of employment on the basis of an implied agreement, foragreement  postulates  a  meeting  of  minds  regarding	 thesubjectmatter of an agreement; and here one party was alwaysmaking	it clear that the payment was ex gratia and that  itwould  not  form a precedent for future years.	 In  dealingwith  the  question of an implied term of the  condition  ofservice,  it  would  be difficult to  ignore  the  statementexpressly made by the employer while making the payment fromyear to year.The question, however, whether the payment in this case	 wascustomary  and traditional, still remains to be	 considered.In  dealing  with  puja bonus based on an  implied  term  ofemployment,  it was pointed out by us in  Messrs.   IspahaniLtd.  v.  Ispahani Employees Union (1) that a  term  may  beimplied,  even	though the payment may not have	 been  at  auniform rate throughout and the Industrial Tribunal would bejustified in deciding what should be the quantum of  paymentin  a  particular  year	 taking	 into  account	the  varyingpayments  made in previous years.  But when the question  ofcustomary and traditional bonus arises for adjudication, theconsiderations	may be somewhat different.  In such a  case,the Tribunal will have to consider: (i) whether the  paymenthas  been over an unbroken series of years; (ii) whether  ithas  been for a sufficiently long period, though the  lengthof  the	 period might depend on the  circumstances  of	eachcase:  even so the period may normally have to be longer  tojustify an inference of traditional and customary puja bonusthan  may  be the case with puja bonus based on	 an  impliedterm of employment; (iii) the circumstance that the  paymentdepended  upon	the  earning of profits	 would	have  to  beexcluded  and  therefore it must be shown that	payment	 wasmade  in  years of loss.  In dealing with  the	question  ofcustom,	 the fact that the payment was called ex  gratia  bythe employer when it(1)  [1960(1)] S.C.R. 24.112was made, would, however, make no difference in this  regardbecause	 the proof of custom depends upon the effect of	 therelevant  factors  enumerated  by us; and it  would  not  bematerially affected by unilateral declarations of one  partywhen the said declarations are inconsistent with the  courseof  conduct  adopted by it; and (iv) the payment  must	havebeen  at a uniform rate throughout to justify  an  inferencethat the payment at such and such rate had become  customaryand traditional in the particular concern.  It will be	seenthat  these tests are in substance more stringent  than	 thetests applied for proof of puja bonus as an implied term  ofemployment.Let  us	 now see whether these tests are  satisfied  in	 thepresent	 case.	 The practice in the present case  began  in1940  and was unbroken upto 1950.  In between there  was  anadjudication  in 1948 to which the company was a party.	  Atthat  time it was said on behalf of the company	 before	 theindustrial tribunal that some bonus was being paid and	thatthere  was no intention to discontinue It  and	consequentlythe tribunal did not adjudicate upon the matter, which showsthat  the company recognised the traditional  and  customarynature of the payment and it assured the tribunal that therewas  no	 intention  then to discontinue	 the  payment.	 Thepayment was continued from 1949 to 1951.  In 1952, there wassome  dispute  and originally the company paid	one  month'swages  as  advance  of pay and not as bonus.   Some  of	 theworkmen, however, accepted the payment while others did not,because	 they were not satisfied with the amount being	paidas  advance of pay.  The chairman of the board of  directorsof  the	 company visited Calcutta in 1952 and  then  on	 therepresentation of the workmen the advance was converted intoone  month's  bonus  and  even those  workmen  who  had	 notaccepted  the  advance were allowed to draw the	 bonus.	  Itcannot	therefore  be said that there was any break  in	 thepayment of bonus from 1940 to 1952, for if the chairman	 hadnot converted what was advance of pay into bonus in December1952, the workmen might have raised the dispute even in thatyear and then113there  would  have been no break up to 1951.  So  there	 hasbeen  unbroken payment and the period has been	sufficientlylong  to justify an inference of customary  and	 traditionalbonus.	 It was pointed out that in four years	during	thisperiod the payment was made in November and December and notabout the time of the pujas; and, therefore, it could not besaid  that  this was traditional and customary	puja  bonus.The delay in payment is not in our opinion material in	thiscase, for one of the directors of the company, who  appearedas  a witness, stated as to this one month's bonus  that  itwas paid by the company to help its staff during pujas.The  condition	that the payment should have  been  made  inyears  of  loss also to exclude the hypothesis that  it	 waspaid  only  because  profits had been made,  has  also	beensatisfied, for the evidence is that payments were made in atleast two years of loss.  Lastly, the condition that paymentshould	have been at a uniform rate has also been  satisfiedbecause one month's basic wage is the quantum of bonus	from1940  right up to 1952 without any change.  It is true	thatin  December 1951 further bonus for half a month  was  paid;but that year was a year of profit in which cloth-bonus	 forhalf  a month was specially paid.  Thus the rate so  far  asthe  puja bonus is concerned has always remained uniform  atone month's basic wage.	 It is true that the workmen pitchedtheir demand too high for three month's bonus in 1953.	 Butthat doe,-, not in our opinion detract from the inference tobe  drawn  from	 the facts proved in  this  case.   All	 theconditions, therefore, of a customary and traditional  bonusare  satisfied	in  this  case and there  is  no  reason  tointerfere  with the order of the Appellate Tribunal,  thoughwe  should like to make it clear that we do not	 agree	withthe  observations  of the Appellate Tribunal  in  connectionwith  the  profit bonus aspect of the  matter.	 The  appealtherefore  fails and is hereby dismissed.  As this  questionhas  arisen for the first time in this Court as	 a  distinctissue and was not clearly considered before by the AppellateTribunal, we order the parties to bear their own costs.Appeal dismissed,114