PETITIONER:LT. COL.  KHAJOOR SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA & ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:05/12/1960BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  532		  1961 SCR  (2) 828 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC1513	 (4) D	    1967 SC1244	 (12) RF	    1975 SC 865	 (30) R	    1989 SC1933	 (24)ACT:Fundamental  Right, Enforcement of--Power of High  Court  toissue writs against the Government of India--Constitution ofIndia, Arts. 32(2A), 226.HEADNOTE:The  High  Court  of.  Jammu and  Kashmir,  relying  on	 thedecisions  of  this Court in Election Commission,  India  v.Saka Venkata Subba Rao, [1953] S.C.R. 1144 and K. S.  Rashidand  Son  v. The Income Tax Investigation  Commission  etc.,[1954] S.C.R. 738, dismissed an application for a writ	madeby  the appellant against the Union of India and Anr.  underArt.  32(2A),  the relevant provisions of which are  in	 thematter	of enforcement of fundamental rights the same as  inArt.  226 of the Constitution, on the preliminary  objectionthat  the said application was not maintainable against	 theUnion	of   India  as	it  was	 outside   the	 territorialjurisdiction  of that Court.  The appellant's case was	thathe was holding the substantive rank of Lieut.  Col. in Jammuand  Kashmir and had the right to continue in service  untilhe  attained  the age of 53 on November 20,  1961,  but	 wasprematurely retired by a letter issued by the Government  ofIndia on July 31, 1954, without any allegation or charge andin contravention of Art. 16(1) of the Constitution.Held,  that there can be no doubt as to the  correctness  ofthe  decisions	relied on by the High Court and	 the  appealmust fail.829The  jurisdiction  of the High Court under Art. 226  of	 theConstitution,	properly  construed,  depends  not  on	 theresidence  or location of the person affected by  the  orderbut  of	 the person or authority passing the order  and	 theplace  where  the  order has effect cannot  enter  into	 thedetermination of such jurisdiction.  Since functioning of  aGovernment  really  means giving effect to its	order,	suchfunctioning  cannot determine the meaning of the words	"anyperson	or authority within these territories" occurring  inthe  article.  A natural person, therefore, is within  thoseterritories if he resides there permanently or	temporarily,an  authority  other  than the Government  is  within  thoseterritories if its office is located there and a  Governmentif its seat from which, in fact, it functions is there.It  is not correct to say that the word "authority" in	Art.226  cannot include a Government.  That word has to be	readalong  with the clause "including in appropriate  cases	 anyGovernment"   immediately  following  it,  which,   properlyconstrued,  means, that the word may include any  Governmentin  an appropriate case.  That clause is not connected	withthe  issuance  of  a writ or order and is  not	intended  toconfer	discretion  on	the High Courts	 in  the  matter  ofissuing	 a  writ or direction on any  Government,  and	onlymeans  in  such cases where the authority against  whom	 theHigh Court has jurisdiction to issue the writ, happens to bea Government or its subordinates, the High Court may issue awrit against the Government.Election Commission, India v. Saka Venkata Subba Rao, [1953]S.C.R.	II44  and  K. S. Rashid and Son	 v.  The  Income-taxInvestigation Commission etc., [1954] S.C.R. 738, approved.Maqbulunnissa  v. Union of India, I.L.R. (1953) 2 All.	289,overruled.The  Lloyds  Bank Limited v. The Lloyds	 Bank  Indian  StaffAssociation  (Calcutta	Branches), I.L.R. [1954] 2  Cal.  1,referred to.Proceedings under Art. 226 are not suits covered by Art. 300of  the Constitution.  Such proceedings provide	 for  extra-ordinary  remedies  by a special procedure and there  is  noscope  for introducing the concept of cause of action in  itin  the face of the express limitation imposed by  it,	thatthe  person  or	 authority  concerned  must  be	 within	 theterritories   over   which   the   High	  Court	   exercisesjurisdiction.Ryots of Garabandho v. Zamindar of Parlakimedi, (1943)	L.R.70 I.A. 129, held inapplicable.The  resulting	inconvenience of such an  interpretation  ofArt. 226 to persons residing far &way from New Delhi,  wherethe Government of India is in fact located, and aggrieved bysome  order  passed  by it, may. be a  reason  for  suitablyamending the Article but cannot affect its plain language.This Court should not, except when it is demonstrated beyondall  reasonable doubt that the previous ruling, given  after105830due  deliberation and full hearing, was erroneous,  go	backupon it, particularly on a constitutional issue.Per  Subba Rao, J.-The object that the framers of  our	Con-stitution  had	before	them in	 declaring  the	 fundamentalrights	in Part III of the Constitution and  empowering	 theHigh Courts by Art. 226 of the Constitution to enforce	themwould  be largely defeated if a person in a remote  part  ofthe country had to come to New Delhi to seek the  protectionof  the	 Punjab	 High Court whenever  the  Union  Governmentinfringed his fundamental right.The  power of the High Courts under Art. 226 of the  Consti-tution	is  of	the widest amplitude and it  can  issue	 notmerely writs but also directions and orders.The words "any Government" in the Article includes the UnionGovernment which has no constitutional situs in a particularplace  and exercises its powers throughout India  and  must,therefore,  be	deemed in law to have  functional  existencethroughout  India and thus within the territories  of  everyState. Consequently, when the Union Government infringes thelegal  right  and interest of a person residing	 within	 theterritorial  jurisdiction of 'a High Court, the	 High  Courthas  the  power under the Article to issue a  writ  to	thatGovernment.  If its orders are disobeyed by that  Governmentor  any of its officers, even though physically outside	 itsterritories,  it can proceed in contempt against them  underthe Contempt. of Courts Act, 1952.Election Commission, India v. Saka Venkata Subba Rao, [1953]S.C.R. 1144, held inapplicable.K....S.	  Rashid  and  Son  v.	Income	 Tax   InvestigationCommission,  [1954]  S.C.R. 738 and Ryots of  Garabandho  v.Zamindar of Parlakimedi, L.R. 70 I.A. 129, considered.Maqbul-Unnissa v. Union of India, I.L.R. (1953) 2 All. 289,approved.Surajmal  v. State of M.P., A.I.R. 958 M.P. 103	 and  Radhe-shyam  Makhanlal  v. Union.of India, A.I.R. 1960  Bom.	353,held inapplicable.In the instant case, therefore, the High Court had the powerto issue the writ to the Union Government under Art.  32(2A)of the Constitution.Per  Das Gupta, J.-It is neither correct nor appropriate  tospeak  of  location  of	 any  Government  and  there  is  nosatisfactory  test  for	 ascertaining the  location  of	 theGovernment   of	 India.	  Since	 the  Government   functionsthroughout  the territory of India, the conclusion  must  bethat it is within the territories under the jurisdiction  ofevery  High Court.  The words "any Government" in  Art.	 226clearly	 indicate that the High Court was intended  to	giverelief against that Government as well.Even   though  the  Government,	 of  India  is	within	 theterritories  of every High Court, it will not have  to	faceapplications831for relief against the same order in all the High Courts  inIndia.	 The words "in appropriate cases" in  that  Article,properly construed, indicate that there can be only one HighCourt  thereunder that can exercise jurisdiction  under	 theArticle for every act or omission in respect of which reliefis  claimed.  It is possible in every case to ascertain	 theplace  where  the act or omission took place and  that	HighCourt alone, which exercises  jurisdiction over that  place,can have jurisdiction to grant relief under the Article.It  is not correct to say that under Art. 226 the  cause  ofaction	determines the jurisdiction.  Neither  that  Articlenor  Art.  32(2A)  of  the Constitution	 is  based  on	thatprinciple.Election Commission, India v. Saka Venkata Subba Rao, [1953]S.C.R. 1144, approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 37 of 1955.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated December 7,  1954,of  the Jammu and Kashmir High Court in Criminal Misc.	 No.76 of 2011.Vir Sen Sawhney, for the appellant.C....K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General  of India,  B.  R.  L.Iyengar, R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for the respondents.Sardar Bahadur, for the intervener.1960.	December  5. The Judgment of Sinha,  C.	 J.,  Kapur,Gajendragadkar,	 Wanchoo  and Shah, JJ.,  was  delivered  bySinha,	C.  J.	Subba Rao, J. and Das  Gupta,  J.  deliveredseparate judgments.SINHA, C. J.-This appeal on a certificate of fitness grantedby  the	 High  Court of Judicature, Jammu  and	Kashmir,  isdirected  against the judgment and order dated	December  7,1954,	in   an	 application  under  Art.  32(2A)   of	 theConstitution  for  issue of. a writ,  directions  or.  orderagainst the Union of India, through the Secretary,  Ministryof  Defence,,  New Delhi, a,% the first respondent  and	 theState  of  Jammu and Kashmir through the  Chief	 Secretary,,Jammu and Kashmir State, as the second respondent.The  petition  is based on the following  allegations.	 Thepetitioner  will  be  referred to as the  appellant  in	 thecourse of this judgment.  He was aged 45 years832262  days  on  August 12, 1954.	 He was	 holding  a  regularcommission in the Jammu and Kashmir State Forces, which wereamalgamated with the Defence Forces of the Union with effectfrom   September  1,  1949.   The  appellant   holding	 thesubstantive  rank of Lieut.  Col. in the amalgamated  forceshad  the right to continue in service until he attained	 theage  of	 53 years, which event will happen on  November	 20,1961.	The Government of India issued a letter	 dated	July31,  1954,  retiring  the appellant from  the  service	witheffect from August 12, 1954, This decision of the Governmentof  India  is  not based on any	 allegations  or  charge  ofinefficiency, indiscipline or any other irregularity on	 thepart  of  the  appellant.  The	aforesaid  decision  of	 theGovernment  of India prematurely retiring the  appellant  isimpugned  as illegal, unwarranted and discriminatory and  ashaving	been  made  in contravention of Art.  16(1)  of	 theConstitution.The  petition  was  opposed on	behalf	of  the	 respondentsaforesaid on a number of preliminary grounds of which it  isonly  necessary	 to  mention the  first,  namely,  that	 theauthority  against whom the writ is sought, that is to	say,respondent  No. 1, being outside the territorial  limits  ofthe  jurisdiction of the Jammu and Kashmir High	 Court,	 thesame  was not maintainable.  This preliminary objection	 washeard by  a Division Bench, (Janki Nath Wazir, C. J. and  M.A.  Shahmiri,  J.)  Jammu and Kashmir  High  Court.  By	 itsjudgment. dated December 7, 1954, the High Court upheld	 thepreliminary  objection.	  The High Court, relying  upon	 thedecisions  of  this Court in Election Commission,  India  v.Saka  Venkata Subba Rao (1) and K. S. Rashid and Son v.	 TheIncome-tax  Investigation Commission etc. (2), held that  ithad  no	 jurisdiction  to issue a  writ	 against  the  firstrespondent  and, therefore, dismissed the petition, but	 theHigh Court granted the necessary certificate under Art.	 132of the Constitution; hence this appeal.The matter was first heard by a Bench of five judges. in thecourse	of hearing it became clear to us that the  appellantnot only sought to distinguish(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1144.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 738.833the  two decisions aforesaid of this Court,  but  questionedthe correctness of those decisions.  Hence this larger Benchwas  constituted in order to examine the correctness of	 thedecisions  aforesaid of this Court on the strength of  whichthe  High  Court had refused to	 entertain  the	 appellant'spetition, on merits.It has been argued on behalf of the appellant, in the  firstinstance,  that	 the previous decisions of this	 Court	weredistinguishable	 on the ground that they did not, in  terms,consider  the question whether the Government of  India	 wagamenable  to the jurisdiction of the High Court	 under	Art.226  or	 of  the Jammu and' Kashmir High  Court	 under	Art.32(2A) of the Constitution. that those provisions, on a trueconstruction,  would not stand in the way of the  appellant,inasmuch as the Government of India has no location and	 itsauthority  is present throughout the Union  territory;	thatthe correct test is whether or not the cause of action arosewithin	 the   territorial  limits  of	the   High   Court'sjurisdiction;  that the High Court was in error	 in  holdingthat the term "authority" included a Government.In  answer to these contentions on behalf of the  appellant,the  learned Solicitor-General contended that, on  a  properconstruction of the relevant provisions of the Constitution,it  is	clear that Sastri C. J.'s observations	relating  to"authority"  in	 the case of Election Commission,  India  v.Saka  Venkata  Subba  Rao (1) applied with  equal  force  toGovernment,   inincluding   the	  Union	  Government.	 TheGovernment  of	India functions through	 its  officers	and,therefore,  the	 location contemplated means  the  place  atwhich  the  orders  impugned  are  ordinarily  passed.	 Theconsiderations	in  a suit with reference to  the  cause  ofaction	for the suit do not stand on the same footing  in  awrit  matter, because the writ has to reach  the  particularofficers  of the Government concerned.	The  expression	 "inappropriate  cases"  means  that there may  be	cases  wherethough	the Union Government as such is not  located  withinthe  territorial  limits of a High Court yet a writ  may  beissued against it by the High(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1144.834Courts	because	 an  officer  of  the  Union  Government  isfunctioning within such limits and it is his order which  isthe subject matter of the controversy.	Therefore, it is notin every case that a High Court can issue a writ against theUnion.	A writ of mandamus, for example, is directed againsta  particular named person or authority.  Similarly, a	writof  certiorari	is  directed against  a	 particular  record.Therefore,  the	 writ  must  issue  to	someone	 within	 theterritorial limits of the High Court's jurisdiction.The  question that we have to determine in this case  is  offar-reaching  importance  and  is  not	a  matter  of  firstimpression.  The question was first raised in this Court  in1952 and was determined by a Constitution Bench in the	caseof Election Commission, India v. Saka Venkata Subba Rao (1).In that case a writ was applied for in the Madras High Courtfor restraining the Election Commission from, enquiring intothe  alleged disqualification of the respondent.   A  singleJudge  of the High Court- of Judicature of Madras  issued  awrit  of prohibition restraining the Election Commission,  astatutory  authority constituted by the President of  India,with  its office permanently located at New Delhi, when	 thematter	was  heard by the learned single Judge of  the	HighCourt.	 In the High Court the Election Commission  demurredto  the jurisdiction of the Court to issue any writ  againstit  on	the ground that the Commission was  not	 within	 theterritory  in  relation to which the  High  Court  exercisedjurisdiction,  apart  from other  objections.	The  learnedJudge of the High Court overruled the preliminary  objectionand   decided  the  case  on  merits,  and  issued  a	writprohibiting   the  Commission  from'  proceeding  with	 theenquiry.   The learned Judge granted the  certificate  underArt.  132 that the case involved a substantial	question  oflaw  as	 to  the interpretation of  the	 Constitution.	 TheElection  Commission accordingly came up in appeal  to	thisCourt  and  challenged the jurisdiction of the	Madras	HighCourt to issue the writ it had purported to do.	 This  Courtoverruled  the contention on behalf of the respondent  whichwas(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1144.835based	on  the	 decision  of  the  Privy  Council  in	 theParlakimedi case (1) that the jurisdiction of the High Courtto issue a writ is analogous to the jurisdiction of a  courtto  grant  a  decree or order against  persons	outside	 thelimits of its local jurisdiction, provided that the cause ofaction arose within those limits.  This Court overruled thatcontention in these words:-"The  rule  that cause of action  attracts  jurisdiction  insuits  is based on statutory enactment and cannot  apply  towrits  issuable under Art. 226 which makes no  reference  toany  cause of action or where it arises but insists  on	 thepresence of the person or authority 'within the territories'in relation to which the High Court exercises jurisdiction".The  Constitution  Bench in that case  considered  that	 thelanguage  of Art. 226 of the Constitution  was	"reasoriablyplain" and that the exercise of the power conferred by	thatArticle	 was subject to a two-fold limitation,	namely,	 (1)that   the  power  is  to  be  exercised   "throughout	 theterritories in relation to which it exercises  jurisdiction"and (2) that the person or authority to whom the High  Courtis  empowered  to  issue the writs  must  be  "within  thoseterritories".	In other words, the writ of the Court  couldnot  run beyond the territories subject to its	jurisdictionand  that the person or authority affected by the writ	mustbe amenable to the Court's jurisdiction, either by residenceor location within those territories.The  second  case  of  this Court,  which  dealt  with	thisquestion  is  K.  S.  Rashid  and  Son	v.  The	  Income-TaxInvestigation  Commission  (2).	 That was a case  on  appealfrom  the judgment and order dated August 10, 1950,  of	 theHigh  Court of Judicature, Punjab, at Simla, in a number  ofmiscellaneous  matters,	 in which the High  Court  had	beenmoved  under Arts. 226 and 227 of the  Constitution  prayingfor  quashing  proceedings started  against  the  appellantsunder the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission.) Act(XXX of 1947).	It was prayed in the High Court that a	writof prohibition might issue against the Income-Tax(1) (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 129.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 738.836Investigation  Commission directing it not to  proceed	withthe  investigation  of	cases  referred	 to  it	 under	 theprovisions of the Act.	The writ petitions in the High Courtwere  opposed  on behalf of the Commission on  a  number  ofgrounds, one of them being that the Pun. jab High Court	 hadno jurisdiction to issue the writs prayed for under Art. 226of  the	 Constitution,	simply because	the  Commission	 waslocated	 in  Delhi.  Reliance was placed on  behalf  of	 theCommission  on	the  decision of the Privy  Council  in	 theParliament  case  (1) that the substance of the	 matter	 wasthat  the assessees against whom the investigation had	beenstarted	 belonged  to  U. P. and  all  the  assessment	pro-ceedings,  including reference to the High Court, would	 liein  Uttar  Pradesh.   The High Court  gave  effect  to	thiscontention  and dismissed the application primarily  on	 theground that the High Court had no jurisdiction to issue	 thewrit to the Commission.	 The assessees came up in appeal  tothis Court, and this Court substantially adopted the reasonsgiven by it in its previous judgment in the case of ElectionCommission,  India v. Saka Venkata Subba Rao (2).  It is  tobe  noted  that when the High Court of	Punjab	decided	 thecase,  the decision of this Court referred to above had	 notbeen given.  Relying upon its previous decision, this  Courtheld that the Punjab High Court was in error in holding thatit  had no jurisdiction to deal with the matter	 under	Art.226  of the Constitution.  The appeal was dismissed by	thisCourt on other grounds, not material to this case.Learned counsel for the appellant has contended that the twodecisions   of	 this	Court	referred   to	above	 aredistinguishable from the facts of the present case, inasmuchas in those cases the Election Commission and the Income-taxInvestigation  'Commission were statutory bodies, which	 hadtheir  location	 in Delhi, and, therefore, this	 Court	heldthat  the Punjab High Court was the High Court within  whosejurisdiction those bodies functioned and had their  locationand  were,  therefore,	amenable to  its  jurisdiction.	  Hefurther	 contended  that  the  Union  Government  functionedthroughout the territory of India and could(1) (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 129.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 1144.837not  be said to be located only in Delhi simply because	 thecapital	  for  the  time  being	 was  in  Delhi.   In	thisconnection,  strong reliance was placed on the	decision  ofthe Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in  Maqbulunnissav. Union of India (1).	That case does lend a great deal  ofsupport	 to this contention on behalf of the appellant.	  Itwas held by the High Court in that case that the words	"anyGovernment" in Art. 226(1) of the Constitution clearly indi-cated  that  the Allahabad High Court  had  jurisdiction  toentertain the petition under Art. 226, not only against	 theState	of  Uttar  Pradesh,  but  also	against	 the   UnionGovernment  for	 the  issue  of a  writ	 in  the  nature  ofmandamus,  directing the Government to forbear	from  givingeffect	to the order asking the petitioner to  leave  India.The ratio of the decision was that, even though the  capitalof the Government of India is in Delhi, its executive  powerextends throughout the territory of India and that the	realtest to determine the jurisdiction would be the residence ofthe  petitioners and the effect of the impugned	 order	uponthem.	 After	 holding  that	the  High  Court   had	 thejurisdiction to entertain the petition, the Court  dismissedit  on	other  grounds,	 not material  to  this	 case.	 TheAllahabad  High	 Court	distinguished  the  decision  of   aDivision Bench of the Calcutta High Court dated January	 17,1951,  in the case of The Lloyds Bank Limited v. The  LloydsBank Indian Staff Association (Calcutta Branches) (2)  whichwas  unreported	 till then.  In that case, Harries,  C.	 J.,speaking for the Court, had held that though Art. 226 of theConstitution  had  gone	 beyond	 the  English  practice	  byproviding  that	 writs in the nature  of  prerogative  writscould issue even against a Government, that Government	mostbe located within the territorial limits of the Court  whichwas  moved  to exercise its power under	 that  Article.	  Hefurther	 observed that the Government of India could not  besaid  to  be  located  in the  State  of  West	Bengal	and,therefore, writs under Art. 226 could not issue against thatGovernment by the High Court of Calcutta.  That(1) I.L. R. (1953) 2 All. 289.(2) I.L.R.  [1954] 2 Cal. 1.838decision of the Calcutta High Court was distinguished by theAllahabad High Court on the ground that "the effects of	 theorders of the Union Government were not operative within thejurisdiction  of  the  Court".	It may be  added  that	thatdecision came up in appeal to this Court in Civil Appeal No.42 of 1952 but the appeal was dismissed by this Court by itsjudgment dated April 20, 1952, on other grounds.  It will benoticed that when the Allahabad decision, so strongly reliedupon by the appellant, was given, the two decisions referredto  above of this Court were not there.	 The Allahabad	HighCourt may not have given that judgment if the two  decisionsof this Court had then been in existence.The  two  main questions which arise,  therefore,  are:	 (i)whether the Government of India as such can be said to	havea   location  in  a  particular	 place,	 viz.,	New   Delhi,irrespective of the fact that its authority extends over allthe  States and its officers function throughout India,	 and(ii) whether there is any scope for introducing the  conceptof cause of action as the basis of exercise of	jurisdictionunder  Art.  226.  Before, however, we deal with  these	 twomain  questions,  we  would like to clear  the	ground	withrespect	 to two subsidiary matters which have been urged  onbehalf of the appellant.The first argument is that the word "authority" used in Art.226  cannot  and does not include Government.	We  are	 notimpressed  by  this  argument.	 In  interpreting  the	word"authority"  we must have regard to the	 clause	 immediatelyfollowing  it.	 Art.  226 provides for "the  issue  to	 anyperson	or  authority  including in  appropriate  cases	 anyGovernment" within those territories.  It is clear that	 theclause "including in appropriate cases any Government"	goeswith  the  preceding word "authority", and on  a  plain	 andreasonable construction it means that the word "  authority"in the context may include any Government in an	 appropriatecase.	The suggestion that the said clause is	intended  toconfer	discretion  on	the High Courts	 in  the  matter  ofissuing	 a writ or direction on any Government seems  to  usclearly unsustainable.839To connect this clause with the issuance of a writ or  orderand to suggest that in dealing with cases against Governmentthe High Court has to decide whether the case is appropriatefor  the issue of the order is plainly not justified by	 therules of grammar.  We have no hesitation in holding that thesaid  clause  goes with the word "authority"  and  that	 itseffect	is that the authority against whom  jurisdiction  isconferred  on the High Court to issue a writ or	 appropriateorder  may  in certain cases include a	Government.   Appro-priate	cases  in the context means cases  in  which  orderspassed by a Government or their subordinates are challenged,and  the clause therefore means that where such	 orders	 arechallenged  the	 High  Court may issue a  writ	against	 theGovernment.  The position, therefore, is that under Art. 226power is conferred on the High Court to issue to any  personor authority or in a. given case to any Government, writs ororders there specified for enforcement of any of the  rightsconferred  by  Part III and for any other  purpose.   Havingthus dealt with the two subsidiary points raised before	 us,we  may	 now proceed to consider the  two  main	 contentionswhich arise for our decision in the present appeal.This  brings us to the first question, namely,	whether	 theGovernment of India as such can be said to be located at oneplace,	namely,	 New  Delhi.   The  main  argument  in	thisconnection is that the Government of India is  all-pervasiveand  is functioning throughout the territory of	 India	'andtherefore every High Court has power to issue a writ againstit,  as	 it  must  be presumed	to  be	located	 within	 theterritorial  jurisdiction  of all State High  Courts.	Thisargument in our opinion confuses the concept of location  of'a  Government	with  the  concept  of	its  functioning'  AGovernment  may be functioning all over a State or all	overIndia; but it certainly is not located all over the State orall  over India.  It is true that the Constitution  has	 notprovided  that the seat of the Government, of India will  beat  New	 Delhi.	  That, however, does  not  mean'  that	 theGovernment of India as such has no seat where it is located.It is common knowledge that the seat of the840Government  of India is in New Delhi 'and the Government  assuch is located in New Delhi.  The absence of a provision inthe Constitution can make no difference to this fact.	Whatwe have to see, therefore, is whether the words of Art.	 226mean  that the person or authority to whom a writ is  to  beissued	has  to	 be  resident  in  or  located	within	 theterritories  of	 the  High  Court  issuing  the	 writ?	 Therelevant words of Art. 226 are these-"Every High Court shall have power to issue to any person orauthority within those territories...". So far as a  naturalperson	is concerned, there can be no doubt that he  can  bewithin those territories only if he resides therein-  eitherpermanently  or	 temporarily.	So far as  an  authority  isconcerned,  there  can	be no doubt that if  its  office  islocated	 therein  it must be within the territory.   But  dothese  words  mean with respect to an  authority  that	eventhough its office is not located within those territories itwill  be  within  those territories because  its  order	 mayaffect persons living in those territories?  Now it is clearthat  the jurisdiction conferred on the High Court  by	Art.226  does not depend upon the residence or location  of	 theperson	applying  to it for relief; it depends only  on	 theperson	or  authority against whom a writ  is  sought  beingwithin those territories.  It seems to us therefore that  itis  not	 permissible to read in Art. 226  the  residence  orlocation of the person affected by the order passed in orderto  determine  the  jurisdiction of the	 High  Court.	Thatjurisdiction depends on the person or authority passing	 theorder  being within those territories and the residence:  orlocation of the person affected can have no relevance on thequestion of the High Court's jurisdiction.  Thus if a personresiding or located in Bombay, for example, is aggrieved  byan  order passed by an authority located, say, in  Calcutta,the  forum in which he has to seek relief is not the  BombayHigh Court though the order may affect him in Bombay but theCalcutta High Court where the authority passing the order islocated.   It would, therefore, in our opinion be  wrong  tointroduce  in Art.. 226 the concept of the place  where	 theorder841passed has effect in order to determine the jurisdiction  ofthe  High Court which can give relief under Art.  226.	 Theintroduction of such a concept may give a rise to  confusionand conflict of jurisdictions.	Take , for example, the caseof  an	order  passed by an  authority	in  Calcutta,  whichaffects	 six  brothers	living,	 say-,	in  Bombay,  Madras,Allahabad,  Jabalpur,  Jodhpur and  Chandigarh.	  The  orderpassed	by  the	 authority in  Calcutta	 has  thus  affectedpersons	 in  six  States.   Can it be  said  that  Art.	 226contemplates that all the six High Courts have	jurisdictionin  the matter of giving relief under it?  The	answer	mustobviously be 'No', if one is to avoid confusion and conflictof jurisdiction.  As we read the relevant words of Art.	 226(quoted	 above) there can be no doubt that the	jurisdictionconferred by that Article on a High Court is with respect tothe location or residence of the person or authority passingthe  order and there can be no question of  introducing	 theconcept	 of the place where the order is to have  effect  inorder  to determine which High Court can give  relief  underit.   It is true that this Court will give such	 meaning  tothe words used in the Constitution as would help towards itsworking	 smoothly.  If we were to introduce in Art. 226	 theconcept	 of the place where the order is to have  effect  wewould  not be advancing the purposes for which Art. 226	 hasbeen  enacted.	 On the other hand, we	would  be  producingconflict  of  jurisdiction between various  High  Courts  asalready	 shown by the illustration given above.	  Therefore,the  effect of an order by whomsoever it is passed can	haveno  relevance  in determining the jurisdiction of  the	HighCourt	which  can  take  action  under	 Art.	226.	Now,functioning  of	 a Government is really nothing	 other	thangiving	effect	to the orders passed by	 it.   Therefore  itwould  not be right to introduce in Art. 226 the concept  ofthe  functioning of Government when determining the  meaningof   the  words	 "any  person  or  authority  within   thoseterritories".  By introducting the concept of functioning inthese  words  we shall be creating the same  conflict  whichwould arise if the concept of the place where- the order  isto have effect is introduced in842Art.  226.   There  can, therefore, be no  escape  from	 theconclusion  that  these words in Art. 226 refer not  to	 theplace  where the Government may be functioning but  only  tothe  place where the person or authority is either  residentor  is	located.  So far therefore as a	 natural  person  isconcerned,  he	is within those territories  if	 he  residesthere  permanently or temporarily. So far. as  an  authority(other	than  a Government) is concerned, it is	 within	 theterritories  if	 its office is located there.  So far  as  aGovernment is concerned it is within the territories only ifits seat is within those territories.The  seat  of  a Government is sometimes  mentioned  in	 theConstitutions of various countries but many a time the	seatis  not so mentioned.  But whether the seat of a  Governmentis   mentioned	in  the	 Constitution  or  not,	  there	  isundoubtedly  a	seat  from which  the  Government  as  'suchfunctions as a fact.  What Art. 226 requires is residence orlocation  as  a fact and if therefore there is a  seat	fromwhich  the Government functions as a fact even	though	thatseat  is  not mentioned in the Constitution the	 High  Courtwithin	whose territories that seat is located will  be	 theHigh  Court having jurisdiction under AA. 226 so far as	 theorders of the Government as such are concerned.	  Therefore,the view taken in Election Commission, India v. Saka VenkataSubba  Rao  (1) and K.S. Rashid and Son	 v.  The  Income-taxInvestigation	Commission  (2)	 that  there   is   two-foldlimitation  on	the power of the High Court to	issue  writsetc.  under  Art.  226,	 namely, (i)  the  power  is  to  beexercised  'throughout the territories in relation to  whichit exercises jurisdiction', that is to say, the writs issuedby  the Court cannot run beyond the territories	 subject  toits  jurisdiction, and (ii) the person or authority to	whomthe  High  Court is empowered to issue such  writs  must  be"within	 those territories" which clearly implies that	theymust be amenable to its jurisdiction either by residence  orlocation within those territories, is the correct one.This brings us to the second point, namely, whether(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1144.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 738.843it  is possible to introduce the concept of cause of  actionin Art. 226 so that the High Court in whose jurisdiction thecause  of  action arose would be the proper one to  pass  anorder  thereunder.   Reliance in this  connection  has	beenplaced	on  the judgment of the Privy Council  in  Ryots  ofGarabandho v. Zamindar of Parlakimedi (1).  In that case thePrivy  Council held that even though the impugned order	 waspassed by the Board of Revenue which was located in  Madras,the  High Court would have no jurisdiction to issue  a	writquashing  that order, as it had no jurisdiction to  issue  awrit  beyond  the  limits of the city of  Madras  except  incertain cases, and that particular matter was not within theexceptions.   This decision of the Privy Council does  appa-rently introduce an element of the place where the cause  ofaction	arose  in considering the jurisdiction of  the	HighCourt,	to  issue  a writ.  The basis of  the  at  decision,however,  was the peculiar history of the issue of writs  bythe  three  Presidency	High Courts  as	 successors  of	 theSupreme Courts, though on the literal construction of cl.  8of  the	 Charter  of 1800 conferring  jurisdiction  on,	 theSupreme	 Court of Madras, there could be little	 doubt	thatthe  Supreme Court would have the same jurisdiction  as	 theJustices  of the Court of King's Bench Division	 in  Englandfor  the territories which then were or thereafter might  besubject to or depend upon the Government of Madras.  It willtherefore  not	be  correct to put too much  stress  on	 thedecision in that case.	The question whether the concept  ofcause  of  action could be introduced in Art. 226  was	alsoconsidered  in Saka Venkata Subba Rao's case ( 2 )  and	 wasrepelled in these words:-"The  rule  that cause of action  attracts  jurisdiction  insuits  is based on statutory enactment and cannot  apply  towrits  issuable under Art. 226 which makes no  reference  toany  cause of action or where it arises but insists  on	 thepresence of the person or authority  within the territories'in relation to which the High Court exercises jurisdiction."Article 226 as it stands does not refer anywhere to(1) (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 129.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 1144.844the  accrual of cause of action and to the  jurisdiction  ofthe  High  Court depending on the place where the  cause  ofaction	accrues being within its  territorial  jurisdiction.Proceedings  under Art. 226 are not suits; they provide	 forextraordinary  remedies	 by  a special	procedure  and	givepowers	of  correction to the High Court  over	persons	 andauthorities  and these special powers have to  be  exercisedwithin the limits set for them.	 These two limitations	havealready	 been indicated by us above and one of them is	thatthe  person  or	 authority  concerned  must  be	 within	 theterritories  over  which  the High  Court  exercises  juris-diction.   Is  it possible then to overlook  this  constitu-tional	limitation and say that the High Court can  issue  awrit against a person or authority even though it may not bewithin	its territories simply because the cause  of  actionhas arisen within those territories?  It seems to us that itwould be going in the face of the express provision in	Art.226  and  doing away with an  express  limitation  containedtherein	 if  the  concept  of cause of	action	were  to  beintroduced  in it.  Nor do we think that it is right to	 saythat because Art. 300 specifically provides for suits by andagainst the Government of India, the proceedings under	Art.226 are also covered by Art. 300.  It seems to us that	Art.300 which is on the same line as s. L76 of the Government ofIndia  Act, 1935, dealt with suits as such  and	 proceedingsanalogous  to or consequent upon suits and has no  referenceto  the extraordinary remedies provided by Art. 226  of	 theConstitution.  The concept of cause of action cannot in	 ouropinion be introduced in Art. 226, for by doing so we  shallbe  doing away with the express provision contained  thereinwhich requires that the person or authority to whom the writis to be issued should be resident in or located within	 theterritories over which the High Court has jurisdiction.	  Itis  true  that	this may result	 in  some  inconvenience  topersons	 residing far away from Now Delhi who are  aggrievedby  some order of the Government of India as such, and	thatmay  be	 a  reason for making a	 suit.	able  constitutionalamendment  in Art. 226.	 But the argument of  inconvenience,in our opinion,. cannot845affect	the plain language of Art. 226, nor can the  conceptof  the place of cause of action be introduced into  it	 forthat would do away with the two limitations on the powers ofthe High Court contained in it.We  have given our earnest consideration to the language  ofArt.  226  and the two decisions of this Court	referred  toabove.	 We are of opinion that unless there are  clear	 andcompelling  reasons, which cannot be denied, we	 should	 notdepart from the interpretation given in these two cases	 andindeed from any interpretation given in an earlier  judgmentof  this Court, unless there is a fair amount  of  unanimitythat the earlier decisions are manifestly wrong.  This Courtshould	not,  except  when it  is  demonstrated	 beyond	 allreasonable  doubt that its previous ruling, given after	 duedeliberation  and full hearing, was erroneous, go back	uponits previous ruling, particularly on a constitutional issue.In this case our reconsideration of the matter has confirmedthe view that there is no place for the introduction of	 theconcept of the place where the impugned order has effect  orof  the concept of functioning of a Government,	 apart	fromthe location of its office concerned with the case, or	evenof the concept of the place where the cause of action arisesin  Art. 226 and that the language of that Article is  plainenough	to lead to the conclusion at which the two cases  ofthis Court referred to above arrived.  'If any inconvenienceis  felt on account of this interpretation of Art.  226	 theremedy seems to be a constitutional amendment.	There is  noscope  for avoiding the inconvenience by  an  interpretationwhich we cannot reasonably, on the language of the  Article,adopt and which the language of the Article does not bear.In  this view of the matter the appeal fails and  is  herebydismissed with costs.SUBBARAO,  J.-I	 have  had the	advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment prepared by my Lord the Chief Justice.	 I regret myinability  to  agree.  I would not have ventured  to  differfrom  his  weighty  opinion  but  for  the  fact  that	 theacceptance of the contention of107846the  respondents would practically deprive the	majority  ofcitizens of our country of the benefit of cheap, expeditiousand  effective	remedy given to them under Art. 226  of	 theConstitution against illegal acts of the   Union Government.If  the relevant provisions are clear and  unambiguous,	 thesaid contention must prevail however deleterious the  effectmay be to public interest.  But if the words of the  Articleare  capable of two or more interpretations, one  that	willcarry out the intention of the Constituent Assembly and	 theother  that would defeat it, the former interpretation	mustnecessarily be accepted.  We must also bear in mind that theprovisions  of	the  Constitution  are	not  "	mathematicalformulae  which have their essence in mere form".  It  beingan organic statute, its provisions must be construed broadlyand not in a pedantic way, but without doing violence to thelanguage used.The facts have been fully stated in the judgment of my	Lordthe Chief Justice and it would be redundant to restate them.It  would be enough if I formulate the point of	 law  raisedand express my opinion thereon. The question is whether	 theappellant, who is a citizen of India and is residing in	 theState  of Kashmir, can enforce his fundamental	right  underArt 32(2A) of the Constitution by filing an appropriate writpetition in the High Court of Jammu & Kashmir, if his  rightis  infringed  by  an order of the  Union  Government.	 TheConstitution of India has been made applicable to the  Stateof Jammu & Kashmir by the Constitution (Application to Jammu&  Kashmir)  Order, 1954 (Order No. 48 dated May  14,  1954)with  certain  exceptions and modifications.   By  the	saidOrder,	cl. (3) of Art. 32 of the Constitution was  deleted,and  a	new  clause (2A) was inserted after  cl.  (2).	 Thequestion  falls to be decided on a true construction of	 thesaid el. (2A) which reads:"Without  prejudice to the powers conferred by	clauses	 (1)and  (2),  the High Court shall have  power  throughout	 theterritories  in rotation to which it exercises	jurisdictionto   issue  to	any  person  or	 authority,   including	  inappropriate  cases any Government within these	territories,directions or orders or writs,847including  writs in the nature of habeas  corpus,  mandamus,prohibition,  quo warranto and certiorari, or any  of  them,for  the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by	thisPart."The  operative part of this clause is in pari  materia	withArt.  226 of the Constitution with the difference  that	 thewords  "for any other purpose" found in the  latter  Articleare  omitted  in the former.  Though the power of  the	HighCourt of Jammu & Kashmir is limited to that extent, in otherrespects it is as extensive as that of the other High Courtsunder  Art.  226.   The object of  the	amendment  is  self-evident;  it  was enacted to enable the said High  Court  toprotect	 the fundamental rights of the citizens of India  inthat part of the country.The  learned  Solicitor-General broadly contends  that	thisCourt  has construed the analogous provisons of Art. 226  ofthe Constitution and held that the writs under that  Articledo  not	 run beyond the territories in relation to  which  aHigh  Court  exercises jurisdiction and that  a	 High  Courtcannot	issue  a  writ	thereunder  unless  the	 person	  orauthority  against  whom the writ is  sought  is  physicallyresident  or located within the territorial jurisdiction  ofthat High Court; and that, therefore, on the same parity  ofreasoning, the High Court of Jammu & Kashmir cannot issue  awrit to run beyond the territories of that State against theUnion  Government  functioning through its officers  in	 NewDelhi.Learned	 counsel  for the appellant contends, on  the  otherhand,  that neither Art. 32(2A) nor Art. 226 bears any	suchlimited	 construction  and  that  on  a	 liberal  and	trueconstruction  of the said constitutional provisions it	mustbe  held that 'the High Court can issue a writ	against	 anyGovernment,  including the Union Government, exercising	 thefunctions within the territories of a State, if it infringesthe right of a person in that State.Before	I attempt to construe the provisions of el. (2A)  ofArt. 32, I think it would be convenient to trace briefly thehistory	 of Art. 226, for it throws a flood of light on	 thelegislative intention expressed in848Art.  32(2A).	In pre-independence India the  High  Courts,other  than  the  High Courts in  the  presidency  towns  ofBombay,	  Calcutta  and	 Madras,  had  no  power  to   issueprerogative  writs; even in the case of the said  presidencyHigh  Courts  the  power  to  issue  writs  was	 very	muchcircumscribed;	their jurisdiction to issue the	 said  writswas   confined	only  to  the  limits  of   their   originaljurisdiction  and  the Governments were	 excluded  from	 itsscope.	 But  the  framers  of	our  Constitution  with	 thebackground of centuries of servility, with the awareness  ofthe  important role played by the High Court of	 England  inprotecting  the	 rights	 of  its  citizens  when  they	wereinfringed  by  executive action, with the knowledge  of	 theeffective  and impartial part played by the High  Courts  inpre-independence  India	 within the narrow limits  of  theirjurisdiction  to protect the rights of the citizens  of	 ourcountry, with a vision to prevent autocracy raising its uglyhead in the future, declared the fundamental rights in	PartIII of the Constitution, conferred powers on the High Courtsto   issue  to	any  person  or	 authority,   including	  inappropriate  cases  any Government,  directions,  orders  orwrits  for the enforcement of the fundamental rights or	 forany  other  purpose.   In short, any  person  of  India	 canapproach  an  appropriate High Court to protect	 his  rightsagainst	 any  person,  authority or any	 Government  if	 hisfundamental  right  or any other right is infringed  by	 thesaid person, authority or Government.  If the contention  ofthe  respondents be accepted, whenever the Union  Governmentinfringes  the right of a person in any remote part  of	 thecountry., he must come all the way to New- Delhi to  enforcehis	     right by filing a writ petition in the  CircuitBench  of the Punjab High  Court.  If a common man  residingin  Kanyakumari,  the  southern-most  part  of	India,	 hisillegally  detained in prison, or deprived of  his  propertyotherwise than by law, by an order of the Union	 Government,it  would be a travesty of fundamental rights to expect	 himto  come  to New Delhi to seek the protection  of  the	HighCourt  of  Punjab.  This construction of the  provisions  ofArt. 226 would attribute to the framers849of  the Constitution an intention to confer the right  on  aperson	and to withhold from him for all practical  purposesthe   remedy  to  enforce  his	right  against	 the   UnionGovernment.  Obviously it could not have been the  intentionof the Constituent Assembly to bring about such an anomalousresult	in respect of what they conceived to be a  cherishedright conferred upon the citizens of this country.  In	thatevent, the right conferred turns out to be an empty one	 andthe object of the framers of the Constitution is literallydefeated.The  scope  of	Art. 226 vis-a-vis the	reach  of  the	HighCourts'	 power has been considered in two decisions of	thisCourt,	namely, Election Commission, India v.  Saka  VenkataRao  (1)  and  K.  S.  Rashid  and  Son	 v.  The  Income-taxInvestigation Commission (2).  As this Bench of seven Judgesis constituted to enable this Court to approach the  problemwith  a	 fresh mind unhampered by precedents, I	 propose  toscrutinize the provisions of Art. 32(2A) free from the curbsimposed by the earlier decisions.The  core  of the Article is discernible  in  the  followingclause and phrases: "throughout the territories in  relationto  which it exercises its jurisdiction", "any	Government","within those territories", "directions or orders or  writs,including  writs in the nature of habeas corpus,  etc."	 Thewore   "throughout  the	 territories,  etc."   delimit	 theterritorial jurisdiction of the High Courts in the matter ofissuing	 directions  or	 writs.	  A  High  Court   exercisesjurisdiction  throughout the State in which it	is  located.Its writs run only through. out the State and not beyond itsterritorial  limits.  The main object of the powers to	keepthe  authorities  or tribunals within their  bounds  and  toprevent them from infringing the fundamental or other rightsof citizens.  At the instance of an aggrieved person it	 canissue  one  or other of the writs or  orders  or  directionsagainst the offending authority in respect of an act done oromitted	 tot  be  done	by  it.	  It  is  implicit  in	the,limitation  that  the impugned act must affect a  person  orproperty amenable to its territorial jurisdiction.(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1144.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 738.850This  question, in a different context, has been  consideredby  the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Ryots  ofGarabandho v. Zemindar of Parlaki medi (1).  There the Boardof  Revenue situated in the State of Madras under s. 172  ofthe  Madras  Estates  Land Act,	 1908,	enhanced  the  rentspayable	  by   the  ryots  in  three   villages,   includingParlakimedi  village,  in  the district	 of  Ganjam  in	 theNorthern Circars.  The question was whether the Madras	HighCourt  had power to issue a writ to quash the order  of	 theBoard.	of Revenue, as the parties to that  litigation	werenot subject to the original jurisdiction of the Madras	HighCourt.	 The  Judicial Committee held that the	Madras	HighCourt  had no jurisdiction to issue a writ of certiorari  torun beyond the territorial limits of that High Court.	Whenit  was contended that, as the Revenue Board was in  Madras,the  High  Court had jurisdiction to quash  its	 order,	 theJudicial Committee repelled that contention with the follow-ing remarks at p. 164:"The  Board  of Revenue has always had its  offices  in	 thePresidency  Town,  and in the present  case  the  CollectiveBoard, which made the order complained of, issued this orderin the town.  On the other hand, the parties are not subjectto  the	 original jurisdiction of the High  Court,  and	 theestate	 of   Parlakimedi   ties  in  the   north   of	 theprovince.............	Their  Lordships  think	  that	 thequestion  of  jurisdiction  must  be  regarded	as  one	  ofsubstance,  and	 that  it would not  have  been	 within	 thecompetence  of the Supreme Court to claim jurisdiction	oversuch  a matter as the present by issuing certiorari  to	 theBoard  of  Revenue on the strength of its  location  in	 thetown.	Such a view would give jurisdiction to	the  SupremeCourt,	in  the	 matter of settlement of  rents	 for  ryoti-holdings in Ganjam between parties not otherwise subject  toits  jurisdiction,  which  it would not have  had  over	 theRevenue	  Officer  who	dealt  with  the  matter  at   firstinstance."This decision in clear terms lays emphasis on the  substanceof the matter and holds that mere physical(1)  (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 129.851presence  of an authority within the jurisdiction of a	HighCourt does not enable that Court to issue writs against	 thesaid  authority	 in respect of an order made  in  a  disputebetween	   persons   residing	outside	  the	 territorialjurisdiction  of  the said High Court.	 Therefore,  a	HighCourt's jurisdiction to issue an appropriate writ depends onthe co-existence of two conditions, namely, (i) the cause ofaction	has  accrued within the territories in	relation  towhich  it has jurisdiction, and (ii) the said  authority  is"within" the said territories.	This interpretation may giverise to a criticism; it may be asked, which High Court couldgive  the relief if the cause of action accrues	 within	 theterritorial jurisdiction of one High Court and the authorityconcerned  is  located within that of  another	High  Court?There	may.   be  statutory  authorities   with   all-Indiajurisdiction,  but for convenience located in  a  particularState.	In exercise of the powers conferred under  statutes,they  may  make	 orders	 affecting  the	 rights	 of  partiesresiding in different States.  I am prima facie of the	viewthat the said authorities, in so far as their orders operatein   a	 particular  territory,	 will  be   "within"   thoseterritories   and  the	High  Court,  which  exercises	 itsjurisdiction throughout that territory, can issue a suitablewrit  against  the said	 authorities.	This  interpretationavoids the anomaly of one High Court issuing a writ  againstan  authority located "within" its territorial	jurisdictionin respect of a cause of action accruing in another State orterritory  over	 which	it has no  jurisdiction.   But	thisquestion  does	not  arise in this case, for  we  re  mainlyconcerned with the Union Government.Article	 226  of the Constitution is expressed in  wide	 andmost comprehensive terms.  There is no difficulty about. thewords  "person or authority", but the phrase "including	 anyGovernment"  gives  rise to a conflict of opinion.   If	 theframers	 of the Constitution intended to extend	 simply	 thepower  of  the High Court to issue writs  only	against	 theGovernment  of	the State, they could have  stated  "or	 theGovernment  of the State", instead they designedly used	 thewords  "any Government" which at first sight  appear  ratherinvolved but on a deeper scrutiny reveal that the words852"any  Government"  cannot mean only the	 Government  of	 theState.	The word "any" clearly presupposes the existence  ofmore than one Government functioning in a State.  Under	 theConstitution two Governments function in each State.   UnderArt.  1, India shall be a Union of States and the  territoryof India shall comprise, inter alia, the territories of	 theStates.	  Part 11 provides for one class of  citizens,	thatis, citizens of India.	In whatever State a person with	 therequisite  qualifications of a citizen may reside, he  is  acitizen of India and not of that particular State.  All	 thethree departments of the Union as well as the State functionin  the	 State; both Parliament and the Legislature  of	 theState make laws which govern the State in respect of mattersallotted to them respectively.	Both the Union and the Stateexecutive  powers extend to the.  State, and the  former  isexercised  in  regard  to  matters  with  respect  to  whichParliament  has power to make laws and the latter in  regardto  matters  with respect to which the	Legislature  of	 theState  has  power to make laws: see Arts. 73 and  162.	 TheJudiciary  consists  of an hierarchy of courts and  all	 thecourts	from  the  lowest  to  the  Supreme  Court  exercisejurisdiction in respect of a cause of action arising in thatState.	The demarcation between the Union Government and theState  Government is, therefore, not territorial but only  :subjectwise  and  both the Governments function	 within	 theState.	 With  this background it is easy to  perceive	that"any Government" must include the Union Government, for	 twoState  Governments cannot administer the same State,  thoughfor  convenience or as a temporary arrangement, the  officesof  one State may be located in another State.	Then  it  isasked  why the Article confers power to issue writs  againstany  Government	 only in appropriate cases.  There  are	 twoanswers to this question.  Till the Constitution was  framedthere  was  no power in a High Court to issue  a  writ	evenagainst	  the  Provincial  Government.	  The	Constitutionconferred  for the first time a power on the High  Court  toissue a writ not only against the State Government but	alsothe Union Government.  As the853Union  Government  has	sway  over not	only  the  State  inquestion but beyond it, it became necessary to administer  acaution that a writ can only be issued in appropriate cases.The  High Court's jurisdiction is limited in the  matter  ofissuing	 writs against the Union Government, for  it  cannotissue  writs  against  it in respect of a  cause  of  actionbeyond	its territorial jurisdiction.  There may also  be  acase  where the secretariat of one of the State	 Governmentsis  located  in another State temporarily.  In such  a	casealso  the High Court of the latter State cannot issue  writsagainst	 that State Government as it is not  appropriate  toissue  such writs, for the cause of action  accrues'  withinthe former State.I have, therefore, no doubt that the words "any	 Government"must necessarily take in the Union Government.Much  of  the argument turns upon the  words  "within  thoseterritories".	It is said that the Union Government is	 notwithin	the territories of the State, for  its	headquartersare   in  Delhi.   The	Article	 does  not  use	  the	word"headquarters",	 "resident" or "location".   The  dictionarymeaning	 of the word "within" is "inside of, not out  of  orbeyond".  The connotation of the words takes colour from thecontext in which they are used.	 A person may be said to  bewithin	a territory if he resides therein.  He may  also  bewithin	a  territory  if  he  temporarily  enters  the	saidterritory  or  is  in  the course  of  passing	through	 theterritory.   Any  authority  may be in a  territory  if	 itsoffice is located therein.  It may also be said to be withina territory if it exercises its powers therein and if it canmake orders to bind persons for properties therein.  So	 tooa  Government may be within a State if it has a legal  situsin that State.	It may also be said to be within a State  ifit administers the State, though for convenience some of itsexecutive  authorities are residing outside  the  territory.We  must give such meaning to these words as would help	 theworking	 of the Constitution rather than retard it.  To	 putit differently, can it be said that the Union Government108854is  within  a  particular State?  Union	 Government  in	 thepresent	  context   means  the	executive  branch   of	 theGovernment.   Where is it located?  To answer this  questionit is necessary to consider what is "Union Government".	 TheConstitution in Part V under the heading. "The Union"  dealswith   separate	  subjects,  namely,  the   executive,	 theParliament  and	 the Union judiciary.  Under  Art.  53,	 theexecutive  power  of  the  Union  shall	 be  vested  in	 thePresident  and shall be exercised by him either directly  orthrough	 officers subordinate to him in accordance with	 theConstitution.	 Article  74  provides	for  a	council	  ofMinisters  with	 the Prime Minister at the head to  aid	 andadvise	the President in the exercise of his functions.	  ByArt.  77,  all executive action of the Government  of  Indiashall be expressed to be taken in the name of the President;and  el. (3) thereof authorizes the President to make  rulesfor  the more convenient transaction of the business of	 theGovernment of India, and for the allocation among  Ministersof  the said business.	Article 73 says that subject to	 theprovisions  of the Constitution, the executive power of	 theUnion  shall  extend to the matters with  respect  to  whichParliament  has	 power to make laws and to the	exercise  ofsuch  rights, authority and jurisdiction as are	 exercisableby  the	 Government  of India by virtue of  any;  treaty  oragreement.   The Constitution nowhere fixes the seat of	 theUnion  Government  or even that of the	President.   Shortlystated, the Union Government is the President acting on	 theadvise	of  the	 Ministers  directly  or  through   officerssubordinate  to him in accordance with the Constitution	 andthe  jurisdiction of the said Government extends, so far  asis relevant to the present purpose, to matters in respect ofwhich Parliament has power to make laws.  The question	thatimmediately  arises  is,  what	is  the	 situs	of  such   aGovernment?   There is no statutory situs.  For	 convenienceof administration, the officers of such Government may	stayat  one	 place,,  or they may be  distributed  in  differentplaces;	 the President may. reside in one place,  the  PrimeMinister in another, the855Ministers in a third place and the officers through whom thePresident exercises his powers in a place different from therest.	What  happens when the Secretariat  remains  in	 NewDelhi  and the President resides for some months in  a	yearin,  say,,  Hyderabad?	 Contrary-wise, what  would  be	 theposition if the President stays in New Delhi and the  entireor part of the Secretariat or some of the Ministers stay  inHyderabad?   It	 is, therefore, not possible to	 apply	'thetest  of  residence  or	 location  in  the  absence  of	 anystatutory  situs.  The Union Government has no	fixed  legalabode;	it is present throughout the territories over  whichit exercises jurisdiction and in respect whereof it can makeeffective and binding orders in the field allotted to it  bythe  Constitution.   The constitutional situs of  the  UnionGovernment is the entire territories of the Union and it  is"within"  the territories of India and,,  therefore,  withinthe territories of every State.Let  us look at the problem from another standpoint.   UnderArt.  300 of the Constitution, the Government of  India	 maysue or be sued by the name of the Union of India.  The	word"sued"	is  used in a general sense and cannot	be  narrowlyconstrued  in the Constitution as to comprehend only  actionby  way	 of filing a suit in a civil  court.   According  toWebster, it means to seek justice or right by legal process.Generally speaking, it includes any action taken in a court.The  practice  followed in the various High Courts  and	 theSupreme	 Court	is  also consistent with  the  wide  meaningattributed to it, for writs are filed against the Governmentof  India only in the name of the Union of India.  Union  ofIndia is a juristic person and it is impossible to predicateits  residence	in  a particular place in  the	Union.	 Itspresence   Synchronizes	 with  the  limits  of	 the   Unionterritories.  That is the reason why that Order XXVII,	rule3, Code of Civil Procedure, says that in suits by or againstthe  Government instead of inserting in the plaint the	nameand  description and place of residence of the plaintiff  ordefendant, it shall be sufficient to insert the	 appropriatename as provided in s. 79 Section 79 of the856Civil  Procedure Code is in terms analogous to Art.  300  ofthe Constitution, and under that section,"In a suit by or against the Government, the authority to benamed  as plaintiff or defendant, as the case may be,  shallbe-(a)..in	 the  case  of	a suit by  or  against	the  CentralGovernment, the Union of India, and(b)..in the case of a suit by or against a State Government,the State."As  the Union of India has no statutory situs, Order  XXVII,rule  3,  Code	of Civil Procedure,  exempts  its  place  ofresidence   being  given  in  the  plaint  or  the   writtenstatement,  as the case may be.	 The suit by or against	 theUnion  Government  shall  be  filed in	a  court  which	 hasjurisdiction to entertain such a suit, having regard to	 theprovisions  of ss. 15 to 20 of the said Code.  On  the	sameanalogy, it may be held that the Union of India has no legalsitus in a particular place and a writ petition can be filedagainst	 it in a place within the jurisdiction of  the	HighCourt wherein the cause of action accrues.It is said that the limits of the power to issue a writ	 areimplicit  in the nature of a particular writ.  What  is	 thenature	of  the	 principal  writs,  namely,  habeas  corpus,mandamus,  prohibition,	 quo warranto and  certiorari?	 Thewrit of habeas corpus "is a prerogative process for securingthe  liberty of the subject by affording an effective  meansof   immediate	release	 from  unlawful	  or   unjustifiabledetention  whether  in prison or in private  custody".	 Thewrit  of  mandamus "is, in form, a command directed  to	 anyperson,	 corporation or inferior tribunal, requiring him  orthem  to  do some particular thing therein  specified  whichappertains to his or their office and is in the nature of  apublic	duty." An order of prohibition is an order  directedto an inferior tribunal forbidding it to; continue with	 theproceedings  pending therein.  An information in the  natureof  a  quo  warranto lies against a person  who	 claimed  orusurped an office, franchise, or liberty, to inquire by whatauthority he supported his claim.  A certiorari is  directedto an authority "requiring the record of the proceedings  insome cause or matter to857be transmitted into the High Court to be dealt with  there."(See Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol. II, 3rd edition).It was asked how could the liberty of a subject be  secured,the  command  be issued, the proceedings of  an	 inquiry  beprohibited,  the credentials of a person to hold  office  bequestioned,  the records of a proceeding be directed  to  betransmitted  to the High Court, if the	authority  concernedwag  located, or the person directed resided,  outside.	 theterritorial  jurisdiction  of the High Court?  It  was	alsoasked  how, if the said authority, or person, disobeyed	 theorder  of the High Court, it could be enforced	against	 thesaid  authority	 or  person.   On the  parity  of  the	samereasoning  the	argument  proceeded that,  as  the  officersacting	for the Government of India reside in Delhi, a	writwhich would become brutum fulmen could not be issued by	 theHigh Court.The questions so posed are based on a misapprehension of therelevant  provisions of the Constitution.  They also mix  upthe  nature of the writs with the procedure in dealing	withthe  writs or enforcing the orders made therein.  As I	havealready	 indicated, the Article confers a power on the	HighCourt  to issue writs against the Union Government.  If	 thesaid Government is "within the State", is it an answer to itthat an officer of the Government dealing with a  particularpaper	or  papers  is	residing  outside  the	 territorialjurisdiction of the High Court?	 If the Union Government  isbound  by  the	order of the High  Court,  the	question  ofservice	 of  notice on a particular officer acting  for	 theGovernment  or to enforce an order against him is  a  matterpertaining  to the realm of procedure and appropriate  rulescalf  be framed by the High Court or the requisite law	madeby  the	 Parliament.  If the Union Government  disobeys	 theorder  it  would certainly be liable for contempt  of  courtunder  the Contempt of Courts Act, 1952.  Even if  the	con-temner	happens	 to  be an officer of  the  said  Governmentresiding  outside the territorial limits of the High  Court,the  High Court has ample power to reach him under s.  5  ofthe said Act.858The  analogy  drawn from English law is	 rather	 misleading.England is comparatively a small country and it has only oneGovernment  functioning throughout the State.	The  problemthat  has arisen now could not have arisen in  England,	 forthe  jurisdiction of the Queen's Bench Division of the	HighCourt extends throughout England.  In England the manner  ofthe  exercise  of the jurisdiction was also regulated  by  aprocedure   brimming  with  technicalities,  but  later	  onsimplified  by	statute.  The framers  of  our	Constitutiontherefore  designedly  used  the words "in  the	 nature	 of"indicating   that  they	 were  not  incorporating   in	 theConstitution  the entire procedure followed in England,	 forthe  procedure will have to be evolved having regard to	 thefederal structure of our Government.  How can the procedurallaw  of England in the matter of writs be bodily lifted	 andimplanted  in  India?	This  Court  shall  have  to  put  areasonable  construction on the words without  being  undulyweighed down by the historical background of these writs andconstrue the Article in such a way, if legally	permissible,to carry out the intention of the Constitution-makers.	Thatapart,	Article 226 of the Constitution is not	confined  tothe  prerogative  writs in vogue in  England.	The  Articleenables the appropriate High Court to issue also  directionsor  orders, and there is no reason why the High Court  couldnot,  in an appropriate case, give a suitable direction	 to,or  make  a  proper order on, the  Union  Government.	Suchdirections or orders are certainly free from the  proceduraltechnicalities of the said writs.I  shall now notice briefly the decisions cited at the	Bar.The  first  is	the  decision  of  this	 Court	in  ElectionCommission,  India  v.	Saka  Venkata  Rao(1).	 There	 theGovernor  of  Madras referred to  the  Election	 Commission,which had its offices permanently located in New Delhi,	 thequestion  whether the respondent was disqualified and  couldbe allowed to sit and vote in the Assembly.  The  respondentthereupon applied to the High Court of Madras under Art. 226of  the	 Constitution for a writ  restraining  the  ElectionCommission(1)  [1953] S.C.R. lI44.859from   enquiring  into	his  alleged  disqualification	 formembership of the Assembly.  This Court held that the  powerof  the	 High  Court to issue writs under Art.	226  of	 theConstitution  was  subject to the two-fold  limitation:	 (i)that such writs cannot run beyond the territories subject toits  jurisdiction; and (ii) that the person or authority  towhom  the  High, Court is empowered to issue writs  must  beamenable  to  the jurisdiction of the High Court  either  byresidence or location within the territories subject to	 itsjurisdiction.	 On  that  basis  the  writ   petition	 wasdismissed.   At the outset it may be noticed that  there  isone  obvious  difference between that case and	the  presentone.  In that case the respondent was not the Union of Indiabut an authority which could have and had its location in  aplace outside the Madras State.	 The present case  satisfiesboth  the  conditions:	the writ does  not  run	 beyond	 theterritorial  jurisdiction  of the High Court, as  the  UnionGovernment   must  be  deemed  to  be  "within"	  the	saidterritories; the second condition is also satisfied, as	 theUnion  Government, being within the State, is also  amenableto its jurisdiction.The  next case relied upon by the learned Solicitor  Generalis  a converse one.  It is the decision of this Court in  K.S.  Rashid & Son v. The Income-tax Investigation  Commission(1).   In that case the Income-tax Investigation  Commissionlocated	  in  Delhi  was  investigating	 the  case  of	 thepetitioners  under  section  5 of  the	Taxation  on  Income(Investigation	 Commission)   Act   1947,   although	 thepetitioners  were assessees belonging to Uttar	Pradesh	 andtheir  original	 assessments  were made	 by  the  Income-taxauthorities of that State.  It was contended that the PunjabHigh  Court had no jurisdiction to issue a writ	 under	Art.226 of the Constitution to the said Commission.	 This Court,after restating the two limitations on the power of the HighCourt to issue a writ, held that the Commission was amenableto the jurisdiction of the Punjab High Court and, therefore,the  Punjab High Court had jurisdiction to issue  the  writ.This decision also(1) [1954] S.C.R. 738.860deals  with a case of statutory authority located  in  Delhiand  it	 has  no  application  to  the	case  of  the  UnionGovernment.  The question whether the principles that  applyto the Government of India would equally apply to  statutoryauthorities situate in one State but exercising jurisdictionin  another, does not arise for consideration in this  case;though, as I have already expressed, I am prima facie of theview that there is no reason why they should not.Now  coming to the decision of the High Courts, there  is  aclear enunciation of the relevant principles in Maqbul-	 Un-Nissa v. Union of India(1).  The Full Bench of the AllahabadHigh Court directly decided the point now raised before	 us.The  importance	 of the decision lies in the fact  that	 thelearned	  Judges  approached  the  problem   without   beingoppressed  by  the decision of this Court  in  Saka  VenkataRao's  case (2), which was decided only subsequent  to	thatdecision.   After considering the relevant Articles  of	 theConstitution'  Sapru,  J.,  speaking  for  the	Full  Bench,observed at pp. 293-294 thus:"The  analogy  between a government and a corporation  or  ajoint  stock  company which has its domicile  in  the  placewhere  its  head office is situate is misleading.   To	holdthat  the jurisdiction of this Court does not extend to	 theUnion Government as it has its capital at Delhi and must  bedeemed	to have its domicile at Delhi would be to place	 theUnion Government not only in respect of the rights  concededin  Part  III  but for any other  purpose  also	 beyond	 thejurisdiction of all State High Courts except the Punjab HighCourt."The learned Judge proceeded to state at p. 294-"In our opinion, the jurisdiction of this Court to interveneunder Article 226 depends not upon where the Headquarters orthe Capital of, the Government is situate but upon the	factof  the effect of the act done by Government, whether  Unionor State being within the territorial limits of this Court.,Adverting  to  the words "any Government" in Art.  226,	 thelearned Judge observed at p. 292 thus:(1) I.L.R. [1953] 2 AR. 289.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 1144.861"They indicate that the founding fathers knew that more thanone government would function within the same territory.))I entirely agree with the observations of the learned Judge,for they not only correctly construe the provisions of	Art.226   but  also	 give  effect  to  the	intention   of	 theConstitution-makers.After the decision of this Court in Saka Yenkata Rao's	case(1) the High Court of Madhya Pradesh considered the questionin  Surajmal  v.  State of M. P. (2).	There,	the  CentralGovernment  rejected an application for a mining  lease	 andthe order rejecting the application was communicated to	 theapplicant  who was residing in the State of Madhya  Pradesh.It was held by the High Court that the writ asked for  couldnot be issued so as to bind the Central Government  because,"(a)  the  Central  Government could not  be  deemed  to  bepermanently  located  or normally carrying on  its  businesswithin the jurisdiction of the High Court; (b) the record ofthe case which the Central Government decided was not beforethe  High  Court and could not be made	available  from	 anylegal  custody within the State; (c) the order of the  StateGovernment  must  be deemed to have merged in  that  of	 theCentral	 Government; (d) the order of the  State  Governmentcould  not  be	touched	 unless the  order  of	the  CentralGovernment  could  be  brought before  the  High  Court	 andquashed."  We are concerned here with the first	 and  secondgrounds.   The	learned	 Chief Justice,	 who  delivered	 thejudgment on behalf of the Full Bench, applied the  principleof  the decision of this Court in Saka Venkata	Rao's(1)  tothe Union Government; and for the reasons already  mentionedI  am of opinion that the decision Is not applicable to	 thecase  of the Union Government.	The second reason in  effectplaces	the  procedure	'on  a	higher	pedestal  than	 thesubstantive  law.  It is true that in a writ  of  certiorarithe  records  would be called for; but, if once it  is	heldthat  the  Union Government is within the State	 within	 themeaning of Art. 226 of the Constitution, I do not think	 whythe High Court in exercise(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1144.	      (2) A.I.R. 1958 M.P. 103,862of   its  constitutional  power	 cannot	 direct	 the   UnionGovernment to bring the records wherever its officers  mighthave  kept them.  This second ground is really corollary  tothe first, viz., that the Union Government is not within theterritorial jurisdiction of the High Court concerned.The  Bombay High Court in Radheshyam Makhanlal v. The  Unionof India (1) also held that a writ cannot issue against	 theUnion  Government  whose  office  is  located  outside	 theterritorial  jurisdiction  of  the High	 Court.	  Shah,	 J.,applying the principle of the decision in Saka Venkata Rao'scase (2 ) to the Union Government hold that as the office ofthe  Union  Government was not located within the  State  ofBombay, the Bombay High Court could not issue a writ to	 theUnion Government.  But S. T. Desai, J.,, was not willing  togo so far, and he based his conclusion on a narrower ground,namely,	 that  even if the writ was issued it could  not  beenforced.  I have already pointed out that both the  groundsare  not tenable.  The Union Government is within the  Stateof Bombay in so far as it exercises its powers in that Stateand  the High Court has got a constitutional power to  issuewrites	to  the	 Union	Government  and,  therefore,   theirenforceability does not depend upon its officers residing ina particular place.The  foregoing discussion may be summed up in the  followingpropositions: (1) The power of the High Court under Art. 226of the Constitution is of the widest amplitude and it is notconfined  only to issuing of writs in the nature  of  habeascorpus,	 etc.,	for it can also issue directions  or  ordersagainst	 any person or authority, including  in	 appropriatecases  any Government. (2) The intention of the	 framers  ofthe  Constitution  is clear, and they used  in	the  Articlewords "any Government" which in their ordinary	significancemust  include the Union Government. (3) The High  Court	 canissue a writ to	 run throughout the territories in  relationto  which  it exercises jurisdiction. and to the  person  orauthority or Government within the said territories. (4) TheUnion Government has(1) A.I.R. 1960 Bom. 353.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 1144.863no  constitutional  situs  in a	 particular  place,  but  itexercises  its	executive powers in respect  of	 matters  towhich  Parliament  has power to make laws and the  power  inthis regard is exercisable throughout India;	   the UnionGovernment must, therefore, be deemed in  law	  to	havefunctional existence throughout India. (5)   When	  byexercise  of its powers the Union Government makes an  orderinfringing the legal right or interest of a person  residingwithin	the  territories in relation to which  a  particularHigh Court exercises jurisdiction, that High Court can issuea  writ	 to  the Union Government, for in law-	it  must  bedeemed to be "within" that State also. (6) The High Court byissuing	  a  writ  against  the	 Union	Government  is	 nottravelling beyond its territorial jurisdiction, as the orderis  issued against the said Government "within"	 the  State.(7)  The fact that for the sake of convenience a  particularofficer	 of  the  said Government  issuing  an	order  staysoutside	 the territorial limits of the High Court is not  ofany relevance, for it is the Union Government that will haveto  produce the record or carry out the order, as  the	casemay  be.  (8)  The  orders issued  by  the  High  Court	 cancertainly be enforced against the Union Government, as it isamenable  to its jurisdiction, and if they are disobeyed  itwill  be  liable  to  contempt. (9)  Even  if  the  Officersphysically reside outside its territorial jurisdiction,	 theHigh  Court  can  always reach them under  the	Contempt  ofCourts	Act,  if they choose to disobey the  orders  validlypassed	against the Union Government which cannot easily  byvisualized or ordinarily be expected. (10) The	difficultiesin  communicating  the	orders	pertain	 to  the  rules	  ofprocedure and adequate and appropriate rules can be male forcommunicating  the  same to the Central	 Government  or	 itsofficers.For  the aforesaid reasons, I hold that Art. 32(2A)  of	 theConstitution  enables the High Court of Jammu &	 Kashmir  toissue  the writ to' the Union Government in respect  of	 theact  done  by it infringing the fundamental  rights  of	 theparties in that State.In  the result,, I allow the appeal, set aside the order  ofthe High Court and direct' it to dispose of the864matter in accordance with law.	The appellant will have	 hiscosts.DAS  GUPTA,  J.-I  have had the	 advantage  of	reading	 thejudgments  prepared  by my Lord the Chief  Justice  and	 Mr.Justice Subba Rao.  I agree with the conclusions reached  bythe Chief Justice 'that the appeal should be dismissed.	 As,however,  I  have  reached that	 conclusion  by	 a  slightlydifferent  process of reasoning I propose to indicate  thosereasons briefly.The facts have been fully stated in the judgment of My	Lordthe  Chief Justice and it is not necessary to  repeat  them.It  is	sufficient  to state that  the	appellant  filed  anapplication  to	 the High Court of Jam-mu  &  Kashmir  underArticle	 32(2A)	 of  the Constitution for the  issue  of  anappropriate writ, order or directions restraining the  Unionof India and the State of Jammu & Kashmir from enforcing  anorder  conveyed	 in the Government of India's  letter  datedJuly  31, 1954, whereby the Government of India ordered	 thepremature compulsory retirement of the appellant with effectfrom August 12, 1954.  A preliminary objection was raised onbehalf of the respondents that Government of India is not  aGovernment within the territorial limits of the jurisdictionof  the Jammu and Kashmir High Court and so the	 applicationwas   not  maintainable.   The	High  Court  accepted	thisobjection as valid and dismissed the application.  The	solequestion in controversy in appeal is whether the High  Courthad  jurisdiction,  on the'facts and circumstances  of	thiscase, to issue a writ to the Government of India under	Art.32(2A) of the Constitution.Article 32(2A) of the Constitution under which the appellantasked the High Court for relief is in the following words:-"Without  prejudice to the powers conferred by	clauses	 (1)and  (2),  the High Court shall have  power  throughout	 theterritories  in relation to which it exercises	jurisdictionto   issue  to	any  person  or	 authority,   including	  inappropriate  cases, any Government within  the	territories,directions or orders or writs,865including  writs in the nature of habeas  corpus,  mandamus,prohibition,  quo warranto and certiorari, or any  of  them,for  the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by	thisPart."Except	for the fact that "the High Court" in  this  Articlemeans  only the High Court of the State of Jammu &  Kashmir,while Art. 226 of the Constitution refers to all other	HighCourts	and  the  further fact that power  granted  by	thisArticle is for the enforcement only of the rights  conferredby  Part III of the Constitution while Art. 226 gives  powerto the High Courts in the Union for the enforcement not onlyof  the	 rights	 conferred by Part III	but  for  any  otherpurpose, the provisions of the two articles are exactly	 thesame.	Power is given to the High Court to give  relief  incertain	 matters by issuing appropriate writs and orders  to(1) any person; (2) any authority other than the  Governmentand  (3)  any  Government.  The exercise of  this  power  issubject to the existence of the condition precedent that theperson	or  the Government or the authority other  than	 theGovernment  must be "within the territories in	relation  towhich  the  High Court exercises jurisdiction".	  A  speciallimitation  in respect of the issue of writs or orders to  aGovernment is introduced by the words "in appropriate cases"before	the  words  "any  Government".	 Leaving  for  laterconsideration the effect of the words "in appropriate cases"we have first to examine the question: when is a  Governmentwithin	 the  territories  under  the  jurisdiction   of   aparticular  High Court ? On behalf of the first	 respondent,the Union of India, it is urged that to be within the terri-tories under the jurisdiction of a High Court the Governmentmust be located within those territories.  It is pointed outthat  "any person"' to be within any  specified	 territorieshas  to	 be present within those territories;  an  authorityother then Government has also, before it can be said to  bewithin	any  particular territories,  a	 physical  existencewithin those territories by having its office therein.	 Thesame   requirement   of	 location  within   the	  particularterritories,  it  is  argued, should apply to  the  case  ofGovernments.  The866argument  is  no doubt attractive and at  first	 sight	evenplausible.  On closer examination however it becomes evidentthat  this argument oversimplifies the problem	by  slurringover  the  fallacious assumption that a,  Government  has  alocation  in  the same way as any person  or  any  authorityother than Government.	Has the Government any location in asimilar sense in the same way as a person has a location  atany point of time by being present at a particular place  oran  authority  other than the Government can be said  to  belocated at the place where its office is situated ? There isno doubt that when we think of a Government, whether of	 theStates	or  of the Union we are thinking  of  the  executiveorgan  of  the State.  The executive power of the  Union  isunder Art. 53 vested in the President and is to be exercisedby him.	 The executive power of the States is vested in	 theGovernors  of  the States and has to be exercised  by  them.Does  it  follow  however that the Government  of  India  islocated	 at  the  place	 where	the  President	resides	 andsimilarly  the	Government of each State is located  at	 theplace where the Governor resides ? It has to be noticed thatwhile the Constitution contains specific provisions in	Art.130  as	 to  where  the Supreme Court  shall  sit,  no	suchprovision  is made as to where the President of India  shallreside or exercise his executive power vested in him.	Art.231  of the Constitution speaks of a principal seat for	 theHigh Court of each State.  We search in vain however for anymention of any principal seat "for the President of India orthe  Governors of the States".	The fact that the  Presidentof  India has a special place of residence, the	 RashtrapatiBhawan	in  Delhi  and the Governors  of  States  have	alsospecial	 places	 of residence at some places  in  the  Stateknown  as  Rai	Bhavan is apt to make  us  forget  that	 theConstitution  does not provide for any place  'of  residencefor the President or Governors.	 There is nothing to preventthe  President of India from having more than one  permanentplace  of residence within the Union.  If this	happens	 andplaces of residence are provided for the President of  Indiain, say, Bombay, Calcutta and867Madras in addition to the residence at Delhi, can it be saidthat  the Government of India is located in Delhi  when	 thePresident  of  India resides in Delhi, it goes	to  Calcuttawhen  he  resides in Calcutta, it goes to  Bombay  when	 thePresident resides in Bombay and to Madras when the Presidentgoes and resides in Madras?  This may seem at first sight  afantastic illustration; but when we remember that in fact inthe days of British rule, the Viceroy had a permanent  placeof  residence  at  Simla for part of the  year	and  anotherpermanent  place  of residence at Calcutta for part  of	 theyear  before  1911  and after 1911 one	permanent  place  ofresidence  in Delhi and another in Simla, it is easy to	 seethat  what has been said above by way of illustration is  byno  means  improbable.	If therefore a Government is  to  beheld to be located at the place where the head of the State-the  President	of India in the case of	 the  Government  ofIndia and the Governor in the case of each State-resides, itmay well become impossible to speak of any particular  placeas the place where the Government is located throughout	 theyear.	This  may  not	affect the  question  of  any  StateGovernment being within the territories of the High Court ofthe State.  For whatever place the Governor may have for hisresidence  is  bound  to be within the	territories  of	 theState.	 The position will however become  wholly  uncertainand  difficult	as  regards the Government  of	India  beingwithin	the territorial jurisdiction of any particular	HighCourt.	For part of the year it may be, if the residence  ofthe President be the criterion for ascertaining the locationof  the	 Government, that the Government of  India  will  bewithin the territories of one High Court and for other partsof  the	 year  in another High Court.	It  will  be  whollyunreasonable  therefore to accept the test of  residence  ofthe President of India for deciding where the Government  ofIndia is located.Finding the test of the President's residence illusory,	 onemay try to say that the Government of India or of a State issituated at the place *here the offices of the Ministry	 aresituated.   Under  Art.	 77,  the  President  allocated	 thebusiness of  the.  Government of India868among  the Ministers while under Art. 166 the Governor of  aState  allocates the business of the Government of  a  Stateexcept	business  with	respect to  which  the	Governor  isrequired to act in his discretion among the Ministers of theState.	 If  therefore it was correct to say  that  all	 theMinisters  of the Government of India had to  perform  theirfunctions  in respect of the business allocated to  them  atone particular place, it might be reasonable to say that theGovernment of India is located at that place.  Similarly  ifall the Ministers of a State had to perform their  functionsin  respect  of	 the  business	allocated  to  them  at	 oneparticular  place the Government of the State might well  besaid to be located at that place.  The Constitution  howevercontains  no  provision that all the Ministers	of  a  Stateshall perform their functions at one particular place in theState nor that the Ministers of the Union will perform theirfunctions at one particular place in the State.	  Situationsmay  arise  not	 only in an emergency, but  even  in  normaltimes,	when  some Ministers of the Government may  find  itnecessary and desirable to dispose of the business allocatedto  them  at  places different from where the  rest  of	 theMinisters are doing so.	 The rehabilitation of refugees fromPakistan is part of the business of the Government of  Indiaand  for the proper performance of this business there is  aMinistry  of Rehabilitation for Refugees.  It is  well-knownthat  the Minister in this Ministry has to perform  a  greatportion	 of  his business at Calcutta 'in  West	 Bengal	 andstays  there for a considerable part of the year.   Many  ofthe offices of this Ministry are situated in Calcutta.	Whatis  true  of  this Ministry, may  happen  as  regards  otherMinistries  also.   Special circumstances may  require	thatsome  portion of the business of the Minis. try of  Commercebe  performed at places like Bombay, Calcutta or  Madras  inpreference  to	Delhi, and if this happens the	Minister  towhom  the  business  of Government of India  in	 respect  ofcommerce has been allocated will be transacting his businessat  these  places instead of at Delhi.	If  public  interestrequires  that	the greater portion of the business  of	 theMinistry of869Defence	 should for reasons of security or other reasons  becarried	 on  at	 some  place away  from	 Delhi	the  DefenceMinister  will have to transact its business at that  place.It is clear therefore that while at any particular point  oftime  it  may be possible to speak of any  Ministry  of	 theGovernment of India being located at a particular place, theGovernment  of	India  as a whole  may	not  necessarily  belocated	 at  that  place.  In my opinion,  it  is  thereforeneither correct nor appropriate to speak of location of	 anyGovernment.    Nor  is	it  possible  to  find	 any   othersatisfactory  test  for	 ascertaining the  location  of	 theGovernment of India.In  Election Commission v. Saka Venkata Subba Rao  (1)	thisCourt held that before a writ under Art. 226 could issue  toan  authority,	the  authority must be	located	 within	 theterritories under the jurisdiction of the High Court.  Therehowever	 the  Court was not concerned with the case  of	 anyGovernment,  and  had  no occasion  to	consider  whether  aGovernment  could be said to have a location.  The  decisionin  that case and in the later case of K. S. Rashid and	 Sonv.  The Income-tax Investigation Commission, etc., (2)	doesnot  therefore	bind  us to hold that  a  Government  has  alocation  in the same way as an authority like	an  ElectionCommission  or an Income-tax Investigation  Commission.	  Itappear,%  reasonable  therefore	 to hold that  all  that  isrequired  to  satisfy the condition of	a  Government  beingwithin	the  territories under the jurisdiction	 of  a	HighCourt  is  that the Government must  be	 functioning  withinthose  territories.   The  Government  of  India   functionsthroughout  the territory of India.  The  conclusion  cannottherefore be resisted that the Government of India is withinthe  territories under the jurisdiction of every High  Courtincluding the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir.The use of the words "any Government" appears to me to be anadditional reason for -thinking that the Government of Indiais  within  the territories under the  jurisdiction  of	 theJammu & Kashmir High Court.  "Any Government" in the contextcannot but mean(1)[1953] S.C.R. 1144.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 738.870every  Government.  If the location test were to be  appliedthe  only Government within the territories of the State  ofJammu  and  Kashmir  would be the Government  of  Jammu	 andKashmir.   It  would be meaningless then to  give  the	HighCourt  the  power to give relief  against  "any	 Government"within	its territories.  These words "any Government"	wereused because the Constitution-makers intended that the	HighCourt shall have power to give relief against the Governmentof India also.But,   contends	 the  respondent,  that	 will	produce	  anintolerable position which the Constitution-makers could nothave  contemplated.  The result of the Government  of  Indiabeing  within the territories of every High Court  in  Indiawill,  it is said, be that the Government of India would  besubjected to writs and orders of every High Court in  India.A person seeking relief against the Government of India willnaturally choose the High Court which is most convenient  tohim  and  so  the  Government of  India	 may  have  to	faceapplications for relief as against the same order  affectinga  number  of persons in all the different  High  Courts  inIndia.	  If  a	 position  of  such  inconvenience  to	 theGovernment  of	India' though of great	convenience  to	 thepersons	 seeking relief, did in fact result from  the  wordsused by the Constitution-makers, I for one, would refuse  toshrink from the proper interpretation of the words merely tohelp  the  Government.	 I do not however  think  that	thatresult	follows.  For, on a proper reading of the words	 "inappropriate  cases", it seems to me that there will be,	 forevery  act  or omission in respect of which  relief  can  beclaimed, only one High Court that can exercise jurisdiction.It has first to be noticed that the limitation introduced bythe  use of these words "in appropriate cases' has not	beenplaced	in  respect  of issue of writs	to  persons  and  toauthorities  other than government.  It has  been  suggestedthat  the  effect of these words is that  in  issuing  writsagainst	 any Government the High Court has not got the	samefreedom	 as it has when issuing writs against any person  orauthority other than871Government   and  that	when  relief  is  asked	 against   aGovernment  the High Court has to take special care  to	 seethat  writs  are  not issued indiscriminately  but  only  inproper	cases.	 I  have no  hesitation	 in  rejecting	thissuggestion.   It  cannot  be seriously	contemplated  for  amoment	that  the Constitution-makers intended to  lay	downdifferent standards for the courts when the relief is  askedfor against the Government from when the relief is asked foragainst other authorities.  In every case where relief underArt.  226 is sought the High Court has the duty to  exerciseits discretion whether relief should be given or not.  It isequally	 clear that in exercising such discretion  the	HighCourt will give relief only in proper cases and not in caseswhere the relief should not be granted.Why  then  were these words "in appropriate cases"  used  atall?   It  seems to me that the	 Constitution  makers  beingconscious  of the difficulties that would arise if  all	 theHigh Courts in the country were given jurisdiction to  issuewrits against the Central Government on the ground that	 theCentral	 Government was functioning within  its	 territorieswanted	to  give such jurisdiction only to that	 High  Courtwhere  the act or omission in respect of which-	 relief	 wassought	had  taken ' place.  In every case where  relief  issought under Art. 226 it would be possible to ascertain	 theplace where the act complained of was performed or when	 therelief	is sought against an omission, the place  where	 theact  ought  to	have been performed.   Once  this  place  isascertained the High Court which exercises jurisdiction overthat place is the only High Court which has jurisdiction  togive  relief  under  Art. 226.	That, in  my  view,  is	 thenecessary result of the words "in appropriate cases".On behalf of the appellant it Was contended on the authorityof the decision of the Privy Council in Ryots of  Garabandhov. Zemindar of Parlakimedi (1) that all that is necessary togive, jurisdiction to a High Court to act under Art. 226  isthat  a	 part of the cause of action has arisen	 within	 the';territories	in   relation	to   which   it	   exercisesjurisdiction.	The  question whether the  cause  of  actionattracts jurisdiction for relief(1)  (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 129.872under  Art. 226 of the Constitution as in the case of  suitswas  considered	 by this Court in Saka Venkata	Subba  Rao'sCase  (1)  and	the  answer  given  was	 in  the   negative.Referring   to	the  decision  of  the	Privy	Council	  inParlakimedi's  Case  (2)  this Court pointed  out  that	 thedecision  did  not turn on the construction of	a  statutoryprovision  similar in scope, purpose or wording to Art.	 226of  the Constitution, and is not of much assistance  in	 theconstruction  of that article.	Delivering the	judgment  ofthe Court Patanjali Sastri C. J. also observed:-"The  rule  that cause of action  attracts  jurisdiction  insuits  is based on statutory enactment and cannot  apply  towrits  issuable under Art. 226 which makes no  reference  toany  cause of action or where it arises but insists  on	 thepresence of the person or authority 'within the territories'in relation to which the High Court exercises jurisdiction."This  decision is binding on us, and I may respectfully	 addthat I find no reason to doubt its correctness.It  is true that in that case the Court had to consider	 thequestion  of jurisdiction in respect of an  authority  otherthan  Government.   It is difficult to see  however  why  ifcause  of  action  could not  attract  jurisdiction  againstpersons	 and  authorities  other than  Government  it  wouldattract	 jurisdiction as against a Government.	It seems  tome clear that the principle of basing jurisdiction on  causeof action has not been introduced in the Constitution  underArt. 226 or Art. 32(2A) of the Constitution.It may seem at first sight that to hold that the High  Courtwithin whose jurisdiction the action or omission, complainedof took place will have jurisdiction, is in effect to acceptthe accrual of cause of action as the basis of jurisdiction.This  however  is not correct.	The High Court	within.	 thejurisdiction  of which the act or omission takes place,	 hasjurisdiction,  not  because a part of the: cause  of  actionarose there, but in consequence of the use of the words	 "inappropriate cases".(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1144.	    (1) (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 129.873The  several cases in the High Court in which  the  questionnow  before us has been considered have been referred to  inthe  majority  judgment	 and also in  the  judgment  of	 Mr.Justice	 Subba Rao and no useful purpose would be served  indiscussing them over again.For   the  reasons  discussed  above  I	 have  reached	 theconclusion that while the Government of India is within	 theterritories of every High Court in India the only High Courtwhich  has  jurisdiction  to  issue  a	writ  or  order	  ordirections under Art. 226 or Art. 32 (2A) against it is	 theone  within the territories under which the act or  omissionagainst which relief was sought took place.In  the	 present case the act against which the	 relief	 hasbeen  sought was clearly performed at Delhi which is  withinthe  territories under the jurisdiction of the	Punjab	HighCourt and the Jammu and Kashmir High Court cannot  thereforeexercise its jurisdiction under Art. 226.In  the result, I agree with my Lord the Chief Justice	thatthe appeal should be dismissed with costs.BY COURT.  In accordance with the opinion of the majority ofthe Court, this appeal is dismissed with costs.					 Appeal dismissed.874