PETITIONER:MOHAMMAD AFZAL KHAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF JAMMU & KASHMIR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:13/11/1956BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  173ACT:Preventive Detention-Decision by Government to continue suchdetention-If  must  be communicated to	the  detenue  withinthree  months  of the Order of detention Jammu	and  KashmirPreventive Detention Act (IV of Sambat 2011), S. 14.HEADNOTE:Section 14 of the Jammu and Kashmir Preventive Detention Actdoes  not in terms provide for the making of a formal  orderand  there is no scope for the contention that the  decisionof  the Government thereunder that a detention order  shouldbe  continued must be communicated to the detenue  concernedwithin three months of his detention.Ackhar Singh v. The State of the Punjab, Petition NO. 359 of1951, decided on October 22 1951, applied.Consequently, where, as in the instant case, the  Governmentwas  satisfied	that  the activities  of  the  detenue	wereprejudicial to the maintenance of public order and he shouldbe  continued  in  detention under s. 14 of  the  Act,	suchdetention  could  not be challenged on the ground,  that  noorder  under that section had been made or  communicated  tohim within three months of his detention,64JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JUIRISDICTION : Petition No. 181 of 1956.Under  Article	32  of the Constitution for a  writ  in	 thenature of Habeas Corpus.T.   R. Bhasin, Amicus Curiae for the petitioner.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, Porus A. Mehtaand R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1956.  November 13.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyDAS   C.J.-This	 is  a	petition  under	 Art.  32   of	 theConstitution  of  India	 praying  for  an  order  that	 thepetitioner's  detention be declared illegal and that  he  beset at liberty.	 The facts are shortly as follows:On  June 30, 1954, the petitioner was arrested in  pursuanceof  an	order of detention made on the same  day  under	 theJammu and Kashmir Preventive Detention Act No. 4 of (Sambat)2011.	On July 1, 1954, the grounds on which the order	 hadbeen made were communicated to the petitioner.	On July	 12,1954,  the  petitioner submitted his representation  to	 theGovernment.   Not  having  heard  anything  further  in	 thematter, the petitioner made an application to the High Courtof  Jammu and Kashmir under s. 491 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure.  It appears that the Government had reviewed	 thecase  of  the  petitioner  under sub-s.	 (2)  of  s.  14  inconsultation  with  a person nominated for  the	 purpose  onAugust	23, 1954, and was satisfied that he should  continueto  be	detained.  Accordingly during the  pendency  of	 thehabeas corpus petition before the High Court the  Governmenton  December 23, 1954, made an order under s. 14  continuingthe detention of the petitioner.  Thereafter the  petitionermoved  the Vacation Judge of this Court under Art. 32.	 Thelearned Vacation Judge was not satisfied that there was	 anyprima  facie ground for interference on the assumption	thatthe  Jammu and Kashmir Preventive Detention' Act was  valid.As,   however,	the  constitutionality	of  that   Act	 waschallenged  the learned Judge directed a Rule to issue.	  OnSeptember 9, 1955, however, the petitioner, alleging that  acertain decision had been made by the65Jammu  and Kashmir High Court which covered his case,  askedfor   permission  to  withdraw	the  petition,	 which	 wasaccordingly  dismissed	as withdrawn.  In the  meantime	 andthereafter  the	 petitioner's  case  was  reviewed  by	 theGovernment and orders extending his detention were made fromtime  to time, the last of such orders having been  made  onJune  8, 1956.	On May 25, 1956, he made a  second  petitionbefore the Jammu and Kashmir High Court.  That petition	 wasdismissed on June 21, 1956, by the High Court.	There. afterthe present petition under Art. 32 was presented before thisCourt on September 26, 1956.The   learned  Attorney-General	 has  taken  a	 preliminaryobjection  that in view of the observations of the  VacationJudge  as  to the merits of the case referred to  above	 thepresent	 petition in so far as it raises any question  otherthan  the constitutional point was not main tainable.	ShriT.  R. Bhasin, who has assisted us in this matter as  amicuscuriae, draws our attention to a fresh petition filed by thepetitioner  and assures us that he does not desire to  raiseany  of the questions of fact raised in the first  petition,which had been withdrawn, but will confine his arguments  tothe new points of law raised in the supplementary  petition.In view of the fact that this petition is concerned with theliberty	 of a subject, we have considered it right  to	hearShri  T. R. Bhasin on the new points sought to be raised  byhim.Shri T. R. Bhasin raises two points, namely:-(1)  that  the	detention has become  wrongful	and  illegalinasmuch  as the order under s. 14 was not made	 before	 theexpiration  of a period of three months after the  order  ofdetention; and(2)  that  the second ground of detention is wrong  inasmuchas  the Chief Secretary has admitted that there is  no	suchhotel as Guest House hotel at Amira Kadal, where the detenueis alleged to have attended a meeting therein referred to.The second point was raised on account of the  typographicalerror in the copy of the Chief Secretary's affidavit,  whichwas available to' the learned counsel,66In  point  of fact the Chief Secretary has  maintained	thatthere  is a Guest House hotel at Amira Kadal.  The  originalaffidavit  having been shown to the learned counsel, he	 hasabandoned the second point.  He,  however, presses the firstpoint.Learned	 counsel  draws our attention to Art. 22(4)  of	 theConstitution.	That clause lays down that no law  providingfor preventive detention shall authorise the detention of  aperson	for a longer period than three months except in	 thecircumstances therein specified.  Sub-cl. (b) makes it quiteclear  that  cl.  (4)  does not apply to  a  person  who  isdetained  in accordance with the provisions of any law	madeunder  sub-cls. (a) and (b) of el. (7) by Parliament,  whichin the case of Jammu and Kashmir has been substituted by theword   'legislature  of	 the  State'  by  the	Constitution(Application to Jammu and Kashmir) Order, 1954, made by	 thePresident.    The  question  is	 whether  the	petitioner'sdetention has been properly continued be. yond the period ofthree  months  by virtue of the provisions of s. 14  of	 theJammu and Kashmir Preventive Detention Act.Shri  T.  R. Bhas in maintains that an order  must  be	madeunder s. 14 before the expiry of the period of three  monthsafter the date of the order of detention.  Turning to s.  14we find that it does not in. terms provide for the making ofany  formal  order.   It  only	says  that   notwithstandinganything  contained in the Act any person detained  under  adetention  order  made in any of the two  classes  of  cases'may'	be  detained  or  continued  in	 detention   withoutobtaining  the	opinion of an Advisory Board  for  a  periodlonger than three months.  There is no specific provision inthe section for making any order or even such a	 declarationas  is	contemplated by the provio to s. 8(1).	 Shri  T.  RBhasin	then contends that at any rate the word	 used  being"may'  it implies that the Government must make up its	mindand  when the Government so makes up its mind to  deal	withthe petitioner's case under s. 14, the fact of such decisionshould be communicated to the petitioner.  In point of	factwe find that the Government had appointed Shri A. H.  Duranifor purposes of67consultation  under s. 14(2) on August 23, 1954,  which	 waswithin	two months from the date of the order of  detention.It  is, therefore, clear on the record that  the  Governmenthad  come  to  a decision with	regard	to  this  particulardetenue against whom the order of detention, was made on theground	 of   his  activities  being  prejudicial   to	 themaintenance  of	 public order that he should be	 dealt	withunder s. 14 and that his case should not go to the  AdvisoryBoard.	 We  see  no warrant for the  contention  that	thisdecision  of  the  Government must be  communicated  to	 thedetenue.   It  has not been shown how the  communication  ofthis  decision	would have been beneficial to  the  detenue.Indeed	in the case of Achhar Singh v. The State  of  Punjab(1)  this Court has expressed the opinion that the  omissionto  convey  the	 order	made under s.  1  1  of	 the  IndianPreventive Detention Act does not make the detention illegalor  result in infringement of the  petitioner's	 fundamentalright.	 If that be the position under s. 1 1 of the  IndianPreventive Detention Act, which provides for the making of aformal	order,	all the more must the position be  the	sameunder  s. 14 of the Jammu and Kashmir  Preventive  DetentionAct, which does not in terms require any formal order to  bemade.	In  our	 opinion  there	 is  no	 substance  in	thisapplication, which must accordingly be dismissed.Application dismissed.(1) Petition No- 359 Of 1951, decided on October 22, 1951.68