PETITIONER:THE UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:MESSRS.	 BHANA MAL GULZARI MALAND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/12/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)SUBBARAO, K.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  475		  1960 SCR  (2) 627 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC 705	 (18) RF	    1961 SC 928	 (7,16) R	    1965 SC1107	 (30,31) RF	    1967 SC1895	 (14) MV	    1968 SC1232	 (95) F	    1971 SC 474	 (7) R	    1974 SC 366	 (56,59) F	    1987 SC1802	 (9)ACT:Iron   and Steel Control-Notification issued  by  Controllerfixing maximum price of steel--Constitutional  validity-Ironand  Steel (Control of Production and Distribution) Order  ,1941, cl.11B Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946(XXIV  of  1946),  ss. 3,  4-Constitution  of  India,  Arts.19(1)(f) and (g).HEADNOTE:The  respondent company was registered a stock-holder  underthe Iron and Steel (Control of Production and  Distribution)Order, 1941 issued by the Central Government in exercise  ofits powers under r. 81(2) Of the Defence of India Rules.  OnDecember  10, 1949, the Iron and Steel Controller  issued  anotification  under  cl.  11B of the  Order  decreasing	 theprices	already fixed for all categories of steel by Rs.  30per ton.  Crirminal cases were started against the  company,its three directors, its general628manager	 and two sales-men under cl. 11B, read with s. 7  ofthe Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946, on	 theallegation  that they had sold their old stock of steel	 forprices	 higher	  than	 those	prescribed   by	  the	saidnotification.	The respondents moved the High	Court  underArt. 226 of the Constitution for quashing the said  criminalproceedings.  Their contention was that cl. 11B of the Orderwas  invalid  and  unconstitutional  as	 it  violated  Arts.19(1)(f)  and  (g) of the Constitution.	 It was	 also  urgedthat the said clause was ultra vires the powers conferred onthe  Central Government by S. 3 Of the Act, under which	 theorder  must  now be deemed to have been	 issued.   The	HighCourt held that the cl. 11B violated Arts. 19(1)(f) and	 (g)of the Constitution.  The Union of India appealed.Held, that neither cl. 11B of the Iron and Steel (Control ofProduction  and Distribution) Order, 1941, nor the  impugnednotification   violated	 Art.  19(1)(f)	 and  (g)   of	 theConstitution and their validity was beyond question.The clear implication of the constitutional validity of	 ss.3  and 4 of the Essential Supplies (Temporary  powers)	Act,1946,  as  found by this Court in Harishankar Bagla  v.	 TheState of Madhya Pradesh, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380, is that if theCentral Government, instead of exercising its own  authorityunder  s.  3  Of the Act, chooses by  a	 notified  order  toauthorise  the	Controller to pass appropriate	orders,	 thenotified  order cannot be challenged on the ground  that  itsuffers from the vice of excessive delegation.All  that  the	Iron and Steel (Control	 of  Production	 andDistribution)  Order, 1941, seeks to do is to  prescribe  anintegrated  scheme  for the guidance of the  Controller	 andother specified authorities in effectuating the policy	laiddown  by s. 3 of the Act and it is obvious that cl.  11B  ofthe  Order by authorising the fixation of the maximum  pricefor  the  different categories of iron	and  steel  directlycarries	 out  that  legislative	 object,  namely,  equitabledistribution  of  the  goods  at  fair	prices.	  The  powerconferred  on  the  Central Government by S. 3	and  on	 thespecified  authority by s. 4 Of the Act is canalised by	 thepolicy	clearly enunciated by S. 3, and cl. 11B which  seeksto  further  canalise the exercise of that power  cannot  besaid  to  confer on the delegate  uncanalised  or  unbridledpower or suffer from excessive delegation.It  is	apparent,  therefore, that cl. 11B  read  by  itselfcannot	violate Art. 19 of the Constitution and there is  nobasis for the argument that by conferring such powers as  itdoes  on  the  Controller,  it	unreasonably  restricts	 theexercise  of fundamental rights under Art. 19(1)(f) and	 (g)of the Constitution.It  may,  however, still be open to a party to show  that  aprice  structure  fixed by the Controller  by  a  particularnotification  violates	Art. 19 of  the	 Constitution.	 Butbefore	this  can be successfully done, he must be  able  toshow not merely that a particular stock-holder suffered lossin respect of particular629transactions  but that in a large majority of cases, if	 notall,  the  impugned  notification is  likely  -to  adverselyaffect	the  fundamental right of the  dealers	under  Arts.19(1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution.M/s.   Dwarka  Prasad  Laxmi Narain v. The  State  of  UttarPradesh,[1954] S.C.R. 803 and The State of Rajasthan v. NathMul and Mitha Mal, [1954] S.C.R. 982, distinguished.Harishankar  Bagla v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1955]  1S.C.R. 380, explained and applied.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos. 36 to38 of 1955.Appeals from the judgment and order dated the 14th February,1955,  of the Punjab High Court (Circuit Bench),  Delhi,  inCriminal Writs Nos. 36-D, 37-D and 52-D of 1954.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, N. S.  Bindraand R. H. Dhebar, for the appellants.N.   C. Chatterjee, A. N. Sinha and N. H. Hingorani, for therespondents.1959.	 December  16.	 The  judgment	of  Sinha,  C.	 J.,Gajendragadkar,	 Das Gupta and Shah, JJ., was  delivered  byGajendragadkar,	 J.  Subba  Rao, J.,  delivered	 a  separatejudgment.GAJENDRAGADKAR J.-These three appeals which have been  filedin  this Court with certificates issued by the	Punjab	HighCourt  under  Art. 132(1) of the Constitution  are  directedagainst	 the orders passed by the said High Court  by  whichcl.  11B  of  Iron  and	 Steel	(Control  of  Production   &Distribution) Order, 1941 (hereinafter called the Order) hasbeen  declared	unconstitutional and  inoperative,  and	 thecriminal  proceedings  commenced  against  M/s.	  Bhana	 MalGulzari	 Mal and others under the said clause 11B read	withs. 7 of the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act,	1946(Act  XXIV of 1946) (hereinafter called the Act)  have	beenquashed.   M/s.	  Bhana Mal Gulzari Mal Ltd., is  a  privatelimited	 company  having  its registered  office  at  ChawriBazar,	Delhi.	 Since	1948, it has been  registered  as  astockholder  by the Iron and Steel  Controller	(hereinaftercalled	the  Controller) under cl. 2(d) of  the	 Order.	  Itappears that630under  cl.  11B of the Order notifications had	been  issuedfrom  time  to	time giving a schedule	of  base  prices  inrespect	 of  iron  and steel.  On  December  10,  1949,	 theController issued a, notification under	 cl. 11B  decreasingby  Rs.	 30  per  ton  the  prices  already  fixed  for	 allcategories   of	  steel.   Several  criminal   cases,	wereinstituted (Nos. 385-410 of 1954) against the said  company,its  three directors, its general manager and  two  salesmen(hereinafter  called respondents 1 to 7) on  the  allegationthat  they,  had sold their -old stock of steel	 for  priceshigher	than  those prescribed by the said  notification  ofDecember  10, 1949.  When the respondents had thus  to	faceseveral criminal proceedings they filed three writ petitionsin  the	 Punjab High Court against the Union of	 India,	 theState	of  Punjab  and	 others	 (hereinafter	called	 theappellants).   By their Writ petition No. 36 of 1954  (23-3-54)  they prayed for a direction, order or writ	 restrainingthe appellants from enforcing or giving effect to cl. 11B orthe  said notification, as well as a writ or order  quashingthe  criminal  proceedings  commenced  against	them.	 Thedecision  in this writ petition has given rise	to  CriminalAppeal No. 36 of 1955.	Writ Petition No. 37 of 1954  (23-3-54)  prayed for a similar order specifically in	 respect  ofthe criminal cases Nos. 385410 of 1954 then pending -againstthe  respondents, and asked for an interim stay of the	saidproceedings.   The  order passed on this writ  petition	 hasgiven  rise to Criminal Appeal No. 37 of 1955.	 It  appearsthat  under some of the criminal proceedings  filed  againstthe  respondents  orders for search had been passed  by	 thetrial  Magistrate  on  May 12,	1953.	These  orders  ,werechallenged by the respondents by their Writ Petition No. 52-D  of  1954  (7-4-54).	An appropriate writ  was  asked	 forquashing  the warrants issued under the said  orders.	Fromthe orders passed on this writ petition, Criminal Appeal No.38  of	1955  arises.	In all	'these	writ  petitions	 therespondents'  contention  was that cl. 11B was	invalid	 andunconstitutional  as it violated Arts. 19(1)(f) and  (g)  aswell  as Art. 31 of the Constitution.  They also urged	thatthe said clause was ultra vires the powers631conferred on the Central Government by s. 3 of the Act.	 Thenotification issued by the Controller on December 10,  1949,was challenged by the respondents on the ground that it	 wasissued	under a clause which was invalid and  was  otherwiseunreasonable  and  void.  In substance the  High  Court	 hasupheld the respondents' plea that cl. 11B is ultra vires  asit is violative	 of the fundamental rights  guaranteed underArts. 19 (1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution.  In the presentappeals the appellants seek to challenge the correctness  ofthis  conclusion.  Thus the main point which calls  for	 ourdecision in this group of appeals is whether cl.  11B of theOrder is valid or not.The  impugned clause forms part of the Order which has	beenissued	by the Central Government in exercise of its  powersconferred  by  sub-r. (2) of r. 81 of the Defence  of  IndiaRules.	 Before considering the appellant's contention	thatcl.  11B is valid it would be necessary to refer briefly  tothe parent Act, and to trace the vicissitudes through  whichit has passed, to examine its material provisions and  theireffect	on  the controversy in the present appeals.   It  iswell-known that on September 29, 1939, the Defence of  IndiaAct was passed to provide for special measures to ensure thepublic safety and interest and the defence of British  Indiaand  the trial of certain offences.  The Act and  the  Rulesframed	thereunder were enacted to meet the emergency  whichhad  arisen  as	 a result of the  Second  World	 War.	Rule81(2)(b)  of  the Rules authorised  the	 Central  Governmentinter  alia, so far as appears to it necessary or  expedientfor  securing the defence of British India or the  efficientprosecution of war or for maintaining supplies and  servicesessential to the life of the community, to provide by  orderfor  controlling  the prices or rates at which	articles  orthings	of any description whatsoever may be sold  or  hiredand  for  relaxing any maximum or minimum  limits  otherwiseimposed	 on such prices or rates.  This Act was followed  byOrdinance  No.	XVIII  of 1946,	 which	was  promulgated  onSeptember  25, 1946.  Clauses 3 and 4 of this Ordinance	 arerelevant for our632purpose.  Clause 3(1) provides inter alia that	the  CentralGovernment,  so	 far  as  it  appears  to  it  necessary  orexpedient  for	maintaining or increasing  supplies  of	 anyessential   commodity,	or  for	 securing  their   equitabledistribution  and  availability	 at  fair  prices,  may	  bynotified  order	 provide for regulating or  prohibiting	 theproduction,  supply and distribution thereof, and trade	 andcommerce therein; sub-cl. 2(c) adds inter alia that  withoutprejudice to  the generality of the powers conferred by sub-s. (1), an order made thereunder may provide for controllingthe prices at which any essential commodity may be bought orsold.	This  Ordinance	 was  issued  to  provide  for	 thecontinuance during a limited period of powers to control theproduction,  supply  and  distribution	of,  and  trade	 andcommerce  in,  certain	commodities which  were	 treated  asessential  for national economy.  The essential	 commoditieswhich were covered by the Ordinance were defined by cl. 2(a)as meaning any of the classes of commodities specified; theyincluded  iron,	 steel and coal.  Having  provided  for	 thedelegation of the specified powers to the Central Governmentunder cl. 3 the Ordinance provided for sub-delegation by cl.4.  Under this clause the Central Government was  authorisedto direct by a notified order that the power to make  ordersunder  cl. 3 shall, in relation to such matters and  subjectto  such  conditions,  if any, as may be  specified  in	 thedirection, be exerciseable by (a) such officer or  authoritysubordinate   to  the  Central	Government,  or	  (b)	suchProvincial   Government	  or  such  officer   or   authoritysubordinate to a Provincial Government, as may be  specifiedin the direction.  This Ordinance was later followed by	 theAct  (Act  XXIV of 1946) which was passed  on  November	 19,1946.  The preamble to the Act, the definition of  essentialcommodity  and	the  provisions	 for  delegation  and	sub-delegation  which were included in the Ordinance  have	beenre-enacted by the Act.	The life of the Act thus passed	 wascontinued from time to time until the Essential	 CommoditiesAct  No.  10  of  1955 was put on  the	statute	 book  as  apermanent measure.  The provisions of the ]Defence of  IndiaAct and the633Rules  framed  thereunder  came	 into  force  to  meet	 theemergency created by the war; but even after the war came toan end and -hostilities ceased the emergency created by	 thewar  continued and the economic problems facing the  countryneeded	the  assistance of    similar  emergency provisions.That explains why those provisions have continued ever since1939.The Order of which cl. 11B is a part was issued on July	 26,1941, by the Central Government in exercise of	  the powersconferred  on it by r. 81(2) of the Defence of	India  Ruleswhich correspond to the provisions of s.     3	of the	Act.It may be pointed out that as a result of    the    combinedoperation  of cl. 5 of Ordinance XVIII of 1946 and s.  7  ofthe  Act, the Order must now be deemed to have	been  issuedunder  s. 3 of the Act.	 It is necessary to examine  brieflythe  broad  features  of  the scheme  of  this	Order.	 TheController specified in the Order is the person appointed asIron  and  Steel Controller by the  Central  Government	 andincludes any person described by cl. 2(a) of the Order.	 TheOrder  applies	to  all iron and  steel	 of  the  categoriesspecified in its Second Schedule.  Clauses 4 and 5  regulatethe  acquisition  and disposal of iron or steel, and  cl.  8requires that the use of iron and steel must conform to	 theconditions  governing  the acquisition.	 This  clause  showsthat, in exercise of the powers conferred on the  Controllerby  the	 proviso  to it, the Controller	 has  to  take	intoaccount	 the  requirements of persons  holding	stocks,	 therequirements  of persons needing such stocks, the  transportfacilities available and any other factor including a strikeor   lock-out  affecting  the  production  or	fabrication.Clauses 10B and 10C empower the Controller to direct sale ofiron  and  steel  in cases specified in	 the  said  clauses.Clause 11A authorises the Controller, where he is  satisfiedthat  such action is necessary in order to  co-ordinate	 theproduction  of	iron and steel with the demands of  iron  orsteel which have arisen or are likely to arise, to  prohibitor require production of the said commodities in the  mannerindicated by sub-cls. (a), (b) and (c) therein.	 That  takesus to cl. 11 B the validity of which81634falls  to  be considered in the present appeals.   It  readsthus:"11B.  Power to fix prices-(1) The Controller may      fromtime to time by notification in the Gazette of India fix themaximum prices at which any iron or steel may be sold (a) bya  producer,  (b)  by  Stockholder  including  a  ControllerStockholder and (c) by any other person or class of persons.Such  price  or	 prices	 may  differ  from  iron  and  steelobtainable from different sources and may include allowancesfor  contribution to and payment from any Equalisation	Fundestablished  by the Controller for equalising  freight,	 theconcession  rates  payable  to each  producer  or  class  ofproducers  under agreements entered into by  the  Controllerwith  the  producers  from  time  to  time,  and  any  otherdisadvantages.The  Controller, may also, by a general or special order  inwriting, require any person or, class of persons  enumeratedabove  to  pay	such amount on	account	 of  allowances	 forcontribution  to any Equalisation Fund, within	such  periodand  in	 such manner as the Controller may  direct  in	thisbehalf.(2)  For the purpose of applying the prices  notified  undersub-clause (1) the Controller may himself classify any	ironand  steel  and	 may, if no appropriate price  has  been  sonotified, fix such price as he considers appropriate:Provided  that	the Controller may direct that	the  maximumprices fixed under sub-clause (1) or (2) shall not apply  toany specified stocks of iron or steel and may, in respect ofsuch stocks specify the maximum prices at which such iron orsteel may be sold and communicate the same in writing to thepersons	 concerned  and any person or persons  holding	suchstocks	of  iron  and steel for which prices  have  been  sospecified  shall,  at the time of the sale of such  iron  orsteel  or part thereof, mention the number and date  of	 theorder  of the Controller in every Cash Memo, Bill  or  otherdocument  evidencing  the  sale	 or  disposal  out  of	 therespective  stocks  to	which the order	 of  the  Controllerapplies.635(3)  No	 producer or stockholder or other person shall	sellor  offer to sell, and no person shall acquire any  iron  orsteel  at a price exceeding the maximum prices	fixed  undersub-clause (1) or (2)."Clause	12  gives power to the Central	Government  to	givedirections to the Controller or other authorities in respectof the procedure to be followed by them in exercising  theirpowers and generally for the purpose of giving effect to theprovisions  of	the Order.  It would thus be  seen  that  inissuing this Order the Central Government have prescribed  aself sufficient scheme for regulating the production, supplyand  distribution  of steel and iron at	 fair  prices.	 TheController is required to take an over-all view of the needsof  national  economy in respect of steel and  iron  and  toissue  appropriate  directions in order	 to  effectuate	 thepolicy	of the Act.  The appellants' contention is  that  ifcl. 11 B is considered in the light of the scheme which	 theOrder has in view it cannot be said that the said clause  isviolative of Arts. 19(1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution.Before we address ourselves to the question about the  viresof  cl.	 11B  it  is necessary to make	it  clear  that	 thevalidity  of  ss. 3 and 4 of the Act has not  been  disputedbefore us, and indeed it cannot be disputed, in view of	 thedecision  of  the Court in Harishankar Bagla & Anr.  v.	 TheState of Madhya Pradesh (1).  The challenge to the vires  ofcl. 11B has, therefore, to be examined on the basis that ss.3 and 4 of the Act are valid.  It is relevant to set out theimplications of this position.	When it is assumed that	 ss.3  and	4 are valid it necessarily means that  they  do	 notsuffer	from  the vice of excessive  delegation.   When	 theLegislature   delegated	  its  authority  to   the   CentralGovernment to provide by order for regulating or prohibitingthe  production, supply and distribution of steel and  iron,it had not surrendered its essential legislative function infavour	of the Central Government.  The preamble to the	 Actand  the  material words used in s. 3(1) itself	 embody	 thedecision of the Legislature in the matter of the legislativepolicy, and their effect is to lay(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380.636down  a	 binding rule of conduct in the light of  which	 theCentral	 Government had to exercise its powers conferred  onit  by s. 3. The Legislature has declared its decision	thatthe   commodities   in	question  are  essential   for	 themaintenance  and pi-ogress of national economy, and  it	 hasalso  expressed	 its determination that in the	interest  ofnational economy it is expedient that the supply of the saidcommodities   should   be   maintained	 or   increased	  ascircumstances may require and the commodities should be madeavailable  for equitable distribution at fair  prices.	 Theconcept	  of  fair  prices  which  has	 been	deliberatelyintroduced  by	the  Legislature in s.	3  gives  sufficientguidance to the Central Government in prescribing the  pricestructure  for the commodities from time to time.  With	 therise and fall of national demand for the said commodities orfluctuations  in the supplies thereof, the chart  of  pricesmay,  in  the  absence of  well	 planned  regulation,  proveerratic	 and  prejudicial to national economy,	and  withoutrational and well-planned regulation equitable	distributionmay  be	 difficult to achieve; and so  the  Legislature	 hasempowered  the Central Government to achieve the  object  ofequitable  distribution	 of the commodities in	question  byfixing fair prices for them.  Thus, when it is said that thedelegation  to the Central Government by s. 3 is  valid,  itmeans that the Central Government has been given  sufficientand   proper   guidance	 for  exercising   its	 powers	  ineffectuating the policy of the statute.Similarly  the validity of s. 4 postulates that	 the  powersconferred on the sub-delegate do not suffer from the vice ofexcessive delegation.  Sub-delegation authorised by s. 4  isalso  justified because, like the delegate under s.  3,	 thesub-delegate  under  s. 4 has been given ample	guidance  toexercise  his  powers when he is authorised by	the  CentralGovernment  in	that  behalf.	If  the	 Central  Governmentchooses to exercise its powers under s. 3 itself it may passappropriate  orders to give effect to the policy of the	 Actin  respect of matters covered by s. 3(1) and (2).  When  itadopts	such  a	 course the Central  Government	 would	haveexercised its own authority under s. 3; and the exercise637of  its	 power cannot be challenged on' the ground  that  itsuffers	 from the vice of excessive delegation.	   Similarlywhere  by a notified order passed by the Central  Governmenttinder s. 3 the Controller is authorised to pass appropriateorders,	 the  notified	order cannot be	 challenged  on	 theground	 that  it  suffers  from  the  vice   of   excessivedelegation.   In our opinion, this position implicit in	 theassumption that ss. 3 and 4 are valid.What does the Order purport to do ? It purports to prescribea  scheme  for	the  guidance of  the  Controller  or  otherauthorities specified in it when they exercise their  powersand attempt to effectuate the policy of the Act.  There	 canbe  no	doubt that in exercising its powers under s.  3	 theCentral	 Government  could itself have	prescribed  a  pricestructure for steel and iron from time to time.	  Similarly,if  by	a  notified  order issued under	 s.  3	the  CentralGovernment bad authorised the Controller to do so, he  couldhave  himself  prescribed a price structure  in	 respect  ofsteel and iron from time to time.  Instead of passing a barenotified   order   authorising	the   Controller   to	takeappropriate  steps to effectuate the policy of the Act,	 theOrder  purports	 to give him additional guidance  by  makingseveral	 relevant  provisions in regard to  the	 production,supply	and sale of steel and iron.  The several clauses  ofthe Order constitute an integrated scheme which would enablethe  Controller to take steps to give effect to	 the  policylaid  down by s. 3 of the Act.	Clause 11B  itself  providesfor  the  fixation  of maximum prices for  iron	 and  steel.First  of all the Controller has to classify iron and  steelinto  different categories according as they are  tested  oruntested; an Equalisation Fund has to be established by	 himfor equalising freight, and he has to take into account	 theconcession  which  is payable to each producer or  class  ofproducers  under  existing valid agreements  and  any  otherdisadvantages.	 He  is	 empowered to  require	the  partiesconcerned  to make a contribution to the Equalisation  Fund,and the maximum prices which he has to fix have to be  fixedseparately for the producers, the stockholders including thecontrolled  stockholders  and  other  persons  or  class  ofpersons.  Having fixed638maximum	 prices as prescribed by cl. 12 the proviso  conferspower  on  the Controller to grant exemptions  to  specifiedstocks	of  iron and steel falling under the  said  proviso.After thus prescribing the procedure for fixing the  maximumprices	and after indicating some of the factors which	haveto be considered in  fixing the maximum prices, sub-cl.	 (3)of  cl.	 11B  imposes a statutory  prohibition	against	 thespecified persons from selling or offering to sell iron	 andsteel  at  a price exceeding the maximum price	fixed  undersub-cl. (2).It  is obvious that by prescribing the maximum	 prices	 forthe different categories of iron and steel cl.	11B directlycarries	 out  the  legislative object  prescribed  in  s.  3because the fixation of maximum prices would make stocks  ofiron and steel available for equitable distribution at	fairprices.	  It is not difficult to appreciate how and why	 theLegislature  must have thought that it would be	 inexpedienteither	to  define or describe in detail  all  the  relevantfactors which have to be considered in fixing the fair priceof an essential commodity from time to time.  In prescribinga schedule of maximum prices the Controller has to take intoaccount	 the  position	in  respect  of	 production  of	 thecommodities   in   question,  the  demand   for	  the	saidcommodities,  the availability of the said commodities	fromforeign sources and the anticipated increase or decrease  inthe  said  supply or demand.  Foreign prices  for  the	saidcommodities  may also be not irrelevant.  Having  regard  tothe  fact  that	 the decision about the	 maximum  prices  inrespect	 of  iron  and	steel would  depend  on	 a  rationalevaluation from time to time of all these varied factors theLegislature  may well have thought that this problem  shouldbe  left to be tackled by the delegate with enough  freedom,the policy of the Legislature having been clearly  indicatedby   s.	 3  in	that  behalf.	The  object   is   equitabledistribution of the commodity, and for achieving the  objectthe delegate has to see that the said commodity is availablein  sufficient	quantities to meet the demand from  time  totime at fair prices.  In our opinion, therefore, if cl.	 11Bis considered as a part of the composite scheme evidenced639by  the whole of the Order and its validity is	examined  inthe  light of the provisions of ss. 3 and 4 of the  Act,  itwould  be difficult to sustain the plea that it	 confers  onthe  delegate  uncanalised  or	unbridled  power.   We	 areinclined  to  hold that the power conferred on	the  CentralGovernment by s. 3 and on the authority specified by s. 4 iscanalised by the clear enunciation of the legislative policyin  s.	3 and that cl.	11B seeks further  to  canalise	 theexercise  of the said power ; and so it is not a case  wherethe validity of the clause can be successfully challenged onthe  ground  of excessive delegation.  We have	referred  tothis aspect of the matter at some length because it  appearsto  have  influenced the final conclusion  in  the  judgmentunder  appeal.	As we will presently indicate  the  argumentbefore	us  has,  however, centred on  the  question  as  towhether the clause has violated Art. 19 of the Constitution.It  was faintly argued that cl. 11B should have referred  tothe  prices  of some specified year as basic prices  of	 thecommodities  and  should  have directed	 the  Controller  toprescribe the maximum prices in respect thereof by referenceto  the	 said basic prices.  In support of  this  contentionreliance is placed on the provisions of s. 3 of the  EnglishPrices of Goods Act, 1939.  It appears that s. 1 of the saidAct  prohibits	sale of price-regulated goods at  more	thanpermitted  price,  and s. 3 defines the expression  "  basicprice  "  as the price at which in the	ordinary  course  ofbusiness  in the case of which those goods were to be  sold,agreed	to be sold or offered for sale at the 21,st  day  ofAugust,	 1939.	Section 4 defines the  permitted  increases.It is in the light of the operation of ss. 3 and 4 that	 theprohibition enacted by s. 1 becomes effective under the act.Reference  is  also  made to the  American  Emergency  PriceControl Act 1942, under which the administrator is directed,in  fixing  prices,  to give due  consideration	 so  far  aspracticable  to prices prevailing during a  designated	baseperiod	and  to	 make adjustments for  relevant	 factors  ofgeneral	 applicability (Vide: Yakus v. United  States  (1)).In our(1)  (1943) 321 U. S. 4314.640opinion, the analogy of the two statutes cannot	 effectivelysustain the argument that in the absence of a  correspondingprovision in cl. 11B it must necessarily     be	 held to  beunconstitutional.  In deciding the nature and extent of	 theguidance  which should be given to the delegate	 Legislaturemust inevitably take   into account the special features  ofthe  object  which  it intends to achieve  by  a  particularstatute.  As we have already indicated the object which	 wasintended to be achieved and the means which were required tobe  adopted in the achievement of the said object have	beenclearly	 enumerated  by	 the  Legislature  as  a  matter  oflegislative  decision.	 Whether or not some  other  mattersalso  should have been included in the legislative  decisionmust be left to the Legislature itself.	 The question  whichwe  have to consider is whether the power conferred  on	 thedelegate  is  uncanalised or unguided.	The answer  to	thisquestion  must,	 we think, be in favour of  the	 appellants.Having	regard	to  the	 nature of  the	 problem  which	 theLegislature  wanted  to	 attack	 it may	 have  come  to	 theconclusion  that  it  would  be	 inexpedient  to  limit	 thediscretion  of the delegate in fixing the maximum prices  byreference to any basic price.  Therefore, we must hold	thatcl.  11B is not unconstitutional on the ground of  excessivedelegation.It  is	of  course  true that though  cl.  11B	may  not  beunconstitutional  on the ground of excessive delegation	 itsvalidity  can  still  be  attacked on  the  ground  that  itviolates  Arts. 19(1)(f) and (g) of the	 Constitution.	 Mr.Chatterjee realised that failure to appreciate the effect ofthis  Court's decision in Bagla's case (1)  constituted	 themain  infirmity in the judgment under appeal; and so he	 didnot  press  the	 argument about	 excessive  delegation.	  Hecontended that cl. 11B was void because it violated Arts. 19(1)(f)	and  (g)  inasmuch as the  power  conferred  on	 theController   by	 the  said  clause  puts   an	unreasonablerestriction   on   the	 respondents'	fundamental   rightsguaranteed  under Art. 19.  In support of this	argument  hehas  relied on the decisions of this Court in  M/s.   DwarkaPrasad Laxmi Narain v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Two Ors.(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 803.641and  The State of Rajasthan v. Nath Mal and Mitha  Mal	(1).On  the	 other	hand,  the  learned  Solicitor-General	 hascontended  that	 the decision of this Court in the  case  ofHarishankar  Bagla (2) in effect concludes  the	 controversybetween	 the  parties  in the  present	  appeals.   We willpresently  refer to these decisions; but before we do so  wemay  mention the material facts on which the  contention  israised.	  The  challenge  to the validity  of  the  criminalproceedings  pending against the respondents can be made  onthree alternative grounds; it can be urged that ss. 3 and  4of  the Act are ultra vires, and if that is so	neither	 theOrder  subsequently issued nor cl. 11B nor the	fixation  ofprices would be valid.	We have already shown that this formof  challenge has not been adopted by the  respondents.	  Itcan also be urged that either the whole of the Order  issuedby  the	 Central  Government or cl.  11B  in  particular  isinvalid	  as  offending	 Arts.	19(1)(f)  and  (i)  of	 theConstitution.	It  is	with this argument that	 we  are  atpresent	 concerned: or, alternatively it can be	 urged	thatthe  actual fixation of prices by which a flat reduction  ofRs.  30	 per  ton was directed is  itself  unreasonable	 andviolative  of Arts. 19(1)(f) and (g).  Now in regard to	 thechallenge to cl. 11B on the ground that it violates Art.  19it is difficult to see how this clause by itself can be saidto  violate Art. 19.  In so far as the argument proceeds  onthe   assumption  that	the  authority	conferred   on	 theController  by	cl.  11B  is  uncanalised  or  unbridled  orunguided,  we  have already held that the  clause  does	 notsuffer	from any such infirmity.  Therefore reading cl.	 11Bby  itself  we do not see bow it would be possible  to	holdthat  the said clause is violative of Art. 19.	In fact,  ifss.  3 and 4 are valid and cl. 11B do-es nothing  more	thanprescribe  conditions  for the exercise	 of  the  delegate'sauthority  which  are consistent with s. 3 it  is  only	 theactual	price structure fixed by the Controller which  in  agiven  case can be successfully challenged as  violative  ofArt.  19.  Let us therefore consider whether it is  open  tothe respondents to challenge the said price structure in thepresent appeals.(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 982.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380.82642In  their  writ	 petition  the	respondents  had  challengedthe  validity of the notification issued by  the  Controlleron  December  10,  1949,  mainly,  if  not  wholly,  on	 theground	that  it was issued under cl. 11B which	 itself	 wasvoid.	 It  is	 true  that  in	 the  course  of  the	arguments  it appears to have been urged before the	 High  Courtthat  the flat deduction of Rs. 30 per ton directed  by	 theimpugned  notification is unreasonable, and in its  judgmentthe High Court has characterised the said deduction as beingconfiscatory.	It also appears that the price for  sale  byregistered  producers of untested articles was Rs.  333	 perton  whereas the price for sale by controlled stock  holdersis Rs. 363 and the price at which the respondents could sellwas  Rs. 378 per ton.  As a result of -the deduction of	 Rs.30  directed  by the impugned notification  the	 respondentswere required to sell at Rs. 348 per ton.  It is alleged  ontheir behalf that they had purchased the commodity from	 thecontrolled  stockholders at the rate of Rs. 363 per ton	 andin  consequence compelling them to sell the comm.  odity  atthe reduced price means a loss of Rs. 15 per ton.  This partof  the	 respondents' case has not been tried  by  the	HighCourt  and  since  it was a matter in  dispute	between	 theparties it could not be tried in writ proceedings; but apartfrom  it  the  petitions do not show  that  the	 respondentsseriously  challenged  the validity of the  notification  onthis  aspect  of  the matter.  Besides	in  considering	 thevalidity of the notification it would not be enough to	showthat  a particular registered stockholder suffered  loss  inrespect	 of particular transactions.  What will have  to  beproved in such a case is -the general effect of the impugnednotification on all the classes of dealers taken as a whole.If  it	is shown that in a large majority of cases,  if	 notall,  the impugned notification would adversely	 affect	 thefundamental  right  of the dealers  guaranteed	under  Arts.19(1)(f) and (g) that may constitute a serious infirmity  inthe   validity	 of  the  notification.	  In   the   presentproceedings no case has been made out on this ground and  sowe cannot embark upon an enquiry of that type in appeal.643It still re mains to consider the decisions of this Court onwhich  Mr.  Chatterjee	has relied.  In	 the  case  of	M/s.Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain (1) the provision of cl. 4(3)  ofthe  Uttar Pradesh Coal Control Order, 1953, was held to  bevoid  as  imposing  an	unreasonable  restriction  upon	 thefreedom of trade and business guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(g)of  the Constitution, and not coming within  the  protectionafforded by cl. (6) of the article.  It is significant	thatin  dealing  with the validity of the  impugned	 clause	 thecourt has expressly stated that the vires of ss. 3 and 4  ofthe  Act were not challenged.  The impugned clause, it	was,however,  held,	 had conferred on  the	licensing  authorityunrestricted power without framing any rules or issuing	 anydirections to regulate or guide his discretion.	 Besides thepower  could  be  exercised  not  only	by  the	 State	CoalController  but	 by  any person to whom	 he  may  choose  todelegate the same and it was observed that the choice can bemade  in favour of any and every person.  It is	 because  ofthese  features of the impugned clause that this Court	heldthat  the  clause cannot be held to be	reasonable.   It  isdifficult to see how this decision can help the	 respondentsin  attacking cl. 11B.	We have already indicated  that	 thepowers	exerciseable by the Controller under cl. 11B are  interms  made  subject  to the general power  of	the  CentralGovernment   to	 give  directions  prescribed  by  cl.	 12.Incidentally  we  may  point out that though  cl.  4(3)	 wasstruck	down  by this Court cls. 7 and 8 which	empower	 theCoal  Controller to prescribe the terms and prices on  whichthe  commodity	in  question could be sold  were  upheld  asvalid.	Mr. Chatterjee contends that in upholding these	 twoclauses	 this  Court  has taken	 into  account	the  formulaprescribed by Schedule III and it appeared to the Court thatthe application of the formula did not on the whole lead  toany  unreasonable result.  Besides the explanation to cl.  8also  provided	some guidance to the  authority	 fixing	 theprice  structure  and  that guidance  was  also	 taken	intoaccount	 by this Court in upholding the validity of the	 twoimpugned  clauses.   That  no doubt is	true;  but,  in	 ouropinion, it would be unreasonable(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 803.644to  suggest,  as Mr. Chatterjee sought to do,  that  in	 theabsence	 of provisions like the explanation to cl. 8 or	 theformula to Schedule 111 cl.  11B in the present ease  shouldbe struck down as void.	 Such a contention finds no  supportin   the   decision   in   the	 case	of   M/s.     DwarkaPrasad Laxmi Narain (1).In  the	 case of Nath Mal (2), this  Court struck  down	 thelatter	part of cl. 25 of the Rajasthan	 Foodgrains  ControlOrder, 1949.  In this case again it is significant that	 thechallenge  to the impugned clause proceeded on the  specificand express assumption that s. 3 of the Act was valid.	 Nowit appears that the impugned clause empowered the Governmentto  requisition the stock at a price lower than the  sellingprice  thus  causing loss to the persons  whose	 stocks	 arefreezed	 while at the same time the Government was  free  tosell  the same stocks at a higher price and make  a  profit.The  case of the respondent which illustrated  this  vicioustendency  of  the impugned clause was treated as  a  typicalcase  which  showed how business of grain-dealers  would  beparalysed  by the operation of the clause.  It was  on	thisview  about  the effect of the clause in  general  that	 theoffending portion was struck down under Art. 19(1)(g) of theConstitution.	It was held also to contravene	Art.  31(2).This  decision again does not assist the  respondents'	casebecause, as we have already pointed out, the validity of theimpugned  notification has not been challenged on  any	suchground in the present proceedings.That  takes us to the decision of this Court in the case  ofHarishankar Bagla (3) on which the appellants strongly rely.In that case this Court has held that ss. 3 and 4 of the Actare  not ultra vires.  It appears that s. 6 of the  Act	 washeld to be ultra vires by, the Nagpur High Court from  whosedecision  the  appeal  arose.	This  Court  reversed	thatconclusion  and	 held that s. 6 of the Act also	 was  valid.The appellant had challenged not only ss. 3, 4 and 6 of	 theAct but also the impugned Control Order.  This order was theCotton Textile (Control of Movement) Order, 1948.  Section 3of the Control Order in particular was(1) [1954] S.C.R. 803.		 (2) [1954] S.C.R. 982.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380.645challenged as infringing the rights of a citizen  guaranteedunder Arts. 19(1)(f) and Broadly stated this section of	 theControl	 Order	prohibited  transport except  under  and  inaccordance  with  a  general permit  or	 special  transport,permit as prescribed by it.  The argument was that the powerconferred by s. 3 constituted an unreasonable restriction onthe  fundamental rights of the citizen under Arts.  19(1)(f)and (g) and that in substance it suffered from the same viceas  cl. 4(3) of the Uttar Pradesh Coal Control	Order  whichhad  been  struck  down by this Court in the  case  of	M/s.Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain (1).	 This argument was  rejectedand it was observed that the impugned clause was not at	 allsimilar	 to cl. 4(3) with which this Court was concerned  inthe  case  of  M/ s. Dwarka Prasad Laxmi  Narain  (1).	 Theappellants  contend that the reasons given by this Court  inupholding s. 3 of the Order applied with equal force to	 cl.11B in the present appeals.  It cannot be said that there isno  force  in this contention.	In the result we  hold	thatneither cl.  11B of the Order nor the impugned	notificationissued	by the Controller on December 10, 1949, violate	 therespondents'  fundamental  rights under Arts.  19(1)(f)	 and(g),   and   so	 their	validity  cannot   be	successfullychallenged.The  orders passed by the High Court on the  writ  petitionsfiled by the respondents before it would, therefore, be	 setaside and the said petitions dismissed.SUBBA  RAO  J.-I  have had the	advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment  of my learned brother, Gajendragadkar, J. I  agreewith his conclusion.The question raised in this case is whether cl. 11B of	Ironand  Steel (Control of Production And  Distribution)  Order,1941,  violates	 the fundamental rights	 enshrined  in	Art.19(1)(f)  and  (g)  of the Constitution.   In  view  of	 thedecision of this Court in Harishankar Bagla v. The State  ofMadhya	Pradesh (2) which is binding on us, I agree with  mylearned brother that cl. 11B of the said Order is valid.   Ido  not	 propose to express my view on	any  other  questionraised in this appeal.Appeals allowed.(1) [1954] S.C.R. 803(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380.646