PETITIONER:CHIMANLAL PREMCHAND	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/09/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1960 AIR   96		  1960 SCR  (1) 764ACT:Agricultural  produce-Packed or Pressed-If  loses  identity-State  Government-Powers  to  make rule	 for  regulation  ofbusiness  and  condition   of  trading-Bombay	AgriculturalProduce	 Market Act, 1939 (Bom. 22 of 1939), ss. 2  and	 26-Bombay Agricultural Produce Market Rules 1941, r. 65.HEADNOTE:The  appellant as a trader made purchases of  full  pressed,cotton bales in the market area of Broach without  requisitelicence from the market committee, thereby contravening	 theprovisions  of r. 65(1) of the Bombay  Agricultural  ProduceMarket Rule 1941.  The appellant, inter alia, contended thatthe Act and Rules passed thereunder did not apply to pressedcotton	which  having been pressed into bales had  lost	 itsidentity and was no more an agricultural produce and that r.65 was ultra vires inasmuch as its provisions were in excessof the rule making power of the State Government.Held,  that  an	 agricultural produce  by  being  packed  incontainers or pressed into bales does not in any way  changeits essential character, and continues to be an agriculturalproduce,765The fact that the cotton ginned or unginned is pressed	intobales,	or  packed otherwise does not make it any  less	 thecotton and is an agricultural produce as defined under S.  2of the Bombay Agricultural Market Act, 1939.Under  S.  26  of the Act, the State  Government  has  amplepowers	to  make rules for the regulation  of  business	 andconditions  of trading in the market and sub-s. (1)  of	 thesaid s. 26 confers power on the State Government to make  r.65.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION Criminal Appeal No. 200  of1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  September	11,  1956,  of the  Bombay  High  Court,  inCriminal Appeal No. 742 of 1956, arising out of the judgmentand order dated December 31, 1955, of the Joint Civil  Judge(J.D.)	and  Judicial Magistrate, First Class,	'Broach,  inCriminal Case No. 605 of 1953.Purshottam  Tricumdas,	J. B. Dadachanji, S. N.	 Andley	 andRameshwar Nath, for the appellants.H.   J. Umrigar and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1959.	September  15.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered bySUBBA RAO J.-This is an appeal by special leave against	 thejudgment  of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay  settingaside  that  of	 the First  Class  Magistrate,	Broach,	 andconvicting the appellant for contravening the provisions  ofr. 65 (1) of the Bombay Agricultural Produce Markets  Rules,1941,  hereinafter called the Rules, and imposing on  him  afine of Rs. 25.The appellant was a trader carrying on business in cotton atBroach.	  On  February	7 and 9,  1953,	 he  purchased	fullpressed	 cotton bales from M/s.	 Ratanji Faramji &  Sons  intwo instalments of 200 bales each through a licensed broker,Dahyabhai  Acharatlal.	 He also purchased  100	 bales	fromHalday	 Multi-Purpose	Co-operative  Society.	 All   thesepurchases  were	 made by the appellant as a  trader  in	 themarket area of Broach without the requisite licence from theMarket Committee.  He was charged in the Court of97766the  Joint  Civil  Judge  (Junior  Division)  and   JudicialMagistrate,  First Class, Broach, for committing the  breachof  r.	65 (1) of the Rules.  The Judicial  Magistrate	heldthat  pressed  cotton was not cotton,  ginned  or  unginned,within	the  meaning of one of the items  mentioned  in	 theschedule  to  the Bombay Agricultural  Produce	Markets	 Act(hereinafter  called  "	 the Act  "),  and,  therefore,	 theappellant  did not commit any offence under the Act  or	 theRules  framed thereunder.  The State of Bombay	carried	 thematter	by way of appeal to the High Court of Bombay, and  aDivision  Bench	 of  the  said	High  Court,  consisting  ofChainani and Shah, JJ., allowed the appeal and convicted theappellant for contravening the provisions of r. 65(1) of theRules  and imposed upon him a fine of Rs. 25.	This  appealchallenges  the	 correctness  of the judgment  of  the	HighCourt.Learned	 Counsel  for  the appellant raised  before  us	 thefollowing  three  contentions:	(i) the Act  and  the  Rulesframed	thereunder  did not apply to  pressed  cotton,	and,therefore,  the appellant did not contravene the  provisionsof  r.	65  (1)	 of the Rules; (ii) r.	65  is	ultra  viresinasmuch as its provisions are in excess of the rule  makingpower of the State Government; and (iii) the transactions inquestion were forward contracts for future delivery, and, asno  delivery  was intended or in fact  made,  the  appellantcannot	be said to have traded in cotton within	 the  marketarea.The   answer  to  the  first  contention  turns	  upon	 theinterpretation	of cl. (1) of sub-s. (1) of s. 2 of the	 Actread along with the relevant items or items in the Schedule.The relevant provisions read:S.   2	(1): In this Act unless there is anything  repugnantin the subject or context,-(i)  "Agricaltural   Produce"	includes  all	produce	  ofagriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry specified  inthe schedule;*			*		       *(vi) "Market  Area " means any area declared to be a  marketarea under section 4.767Schedule E.1. Fibres:(i) Cotton (ginned and unginned)The.Bombay Agricultural Produce Markets Rules, 1941:Rule  65. (1): No person shall do business as a trader or  ageneral commission agent in agricultural produce  in	 anymarket area except under a licence granted   by	 the  marketcommittee under this rule.*		      *				   *(7): Whoever	does   business	  as   a   trader    or	   ageneral	 commission  agent in agricultural  produce  in	 anymarket	area  without a licence granted under this  rule  orotherwise  contravenes	any of the provisions of  this	ruleshall,	on conviction, be punishable with a fine  which	 mayextend	 to  Rs.  200  and  in	the  case  of  a   continuedcontravention with a further fine which may extend to Rs. 50for every day during which the contravention continues afterthe date of the first conviction, subject to the maximum  ofRs. 200.The  gist of 'the aforesaid provisions may be  stated  thus:Agricultural  produce  includes all produce  of	 agriculturespecified in the Schedule.  Cotton, ginned and unginned,  isspecified  in  the Schedule as an agricultural	produce.   Atrader cannot do business in the said produce in any  marketarea  without obtaining licence from the  Market  Committee.If he does such business without a licence, he is liable  topunishment under r. 65 of the Rules.If pressed cotton is " cotton, ginned or unginned  specifiedin  the	 Schedule,  the appellant,  having  admittedly	donebusiness  in  the  said	 cotton	 in  the  market  area,	 hascontravened  the provisions of r. 65, and therefore,  he  isliable to be convicted under r. 67 of the Rules.It  is contended that ginned cotton which has  been  pressedinto  bales  is not cotton within the meaning  of  the	Act.What  is " pressed cotton " in bales ? It involves a  simpleprocess	 described as pressing, and cotton is  pressed	intobales  only  to facilitate its transport from one  place  toanother; it does not involve768any chemical change or even a manufacturing process.  Ginnedcotton,	 after	it is pressed into bales,  continues  to  beginned cotton, and it is sold and purchased only as  cotton,though	in  bales.   We	 find it  difficult  to	 accept	 theargument that pressed cotton is a different commodity.	 Nordo  we	find any relevancy in the argument  that  stockists,industrialists	and exporters deal with pressed	 cotton	 andnot loose cotton, because the said fact does not in any	 waychange the essential character of the agricultural  produce.If  a  trader  carries on business in  that  commodity,	 theconsideration  whether	the  trader  or	 the  buyer  is	  anagriculturist or a non-agriculturist is not relevant to	 theenquiry.Items  11  to XI of the Schedule  specify  cereals,  pulses,oilseeds,  narcotics, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables,  animalhusbandry products, condiments, spices and others, and grassand  fodder.  A perusal of the items indicates that most  ofthem  would  be sold in containers like	 baskets,  packages,tins etc.  It cannot be argued that when the pulses,  fruitsor  vegetables are packed in a basket, the basket  with	 itscontents  becomes a different commodity from that  containedin  it.	  So  too, when tobacco is pressed  and	 packed,  itcannot	be  suggested that packed tobacco  has	changed	 itscharacter.  So also in the case of other products  mentionedin the Schedule.  We do not, therefore, see any principle orreason	for  treating cotton in a different way	 from  otheragricultural products.It  is	said that the primary object of the Act is  to	helpagriculturists,	 that agriculturists do not ordinarily	dealor  do business in bales of cotton and that the	 legislaturecould  not,  therefore,	 have  intended	 to  make  the	 Actapplicable  to pressed cotton.	It cannot be  disputed	thatone  of the objects of the Act is to protect the  producers.That  object  would  certainly be defeated,  if	 within	 themarket area a trader, whether he is an agriculturist or not,can  do business of buying and selling cotton  pressed	intobales, for by that simple process he would be free from	 therestrictions  imposed  to protect the  agriculturists.	 Theobject	of such legislation is to protect the  producers  ofagricultural crops from being exploited by the middlemen andprofiteers769and  to	 enable	 them  to secure a  fair  return  for  theirproduce.  This object would certainly be defeated if we wereto  accept  the contention of the learned  Counsel  for	 theappellant.Shortly	 stated	 the  position is this:	 Cotton,  ginned  orunginned, continues to be cotton till it loses its  identityby  some  chemical or industrial process.  So  long  as	 theidentity is not lost, the fact that it is pressed into balesor  packed  otherwise does not make it any the	less  cottonspecified  in  the Schedule to the Act.	 In this  view,	 thepressed	 cotton	 in  bales is  an  agricultural	 produce  asdefined	 in  s.	 2(1)(i) of the	 Act,  and,  therefore,	 theappellant  in  doing business in the  said  produce  withoutlicence has contravened r. 65 of the Rules.The second contention is that r. 65 is in excess of the rulemaking	power  of the State Government.	  This	argument  iselaborated  by the learned Counsel in the following  manner:Purporting to exercise the powers conferred by s. 26 of	 theAct,  the  Government of Bombay made r. 65  prohibiting	 anyperson	from doing business as a trader, or as a  commissionagent, in any agricultural produce in any market area exceptunder  a licence granted by the Market Committee under	thatrule.	Under s. 26(2)(e) of the Act, the  State  Governmenthas  power only to make rules fixing the maximum fees  whichmay  be	 levied	 by  the  Market  Committee  in	 respect  ofagricultural  produce, bought and sold by persons holding  alicence under the Act in the market area.  Under the Act theState Government is only empowered to grant a licence to anyperson	to use any place in the market area for the  purposeof buying or selling of any agricultural produce; therefore,under s. 26(2) (e) of the Act, the Government can only	makea  rule prescribing the fees in respect of a licence  issuedto  a  person  to use any place in the	said  area  and	 notprohibiting  any other person from doing business without  alicence in that area.  So stated the argument appears to  beplausible, but a scrutiny of the relevant provisions of	 theAct,  the  Rules  made by the Government  and  the  Bye-lawsframed by the Market Committee shows that there is no  basisfor this contention.  The relevant provisions read:770The Bombay Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1939.S.26 (1): The Provincial Government may, either generally orspecially  for any market area or market areas,	 make  rulesfor the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2).	  In   particular  and	without	 prejudice  to	 thegenerality  of	the  foregoing provisions,  such  rules	 mayprovide for or regulate*		       *				  *(e)  the management of the market, maximum fees which may belevied	by the market committee in respect  of	agriculturalproduce	 bought and sold by persons holding a licence  underthe Act in the market area.S.   27	 (1):  Subject to any rules made by  the  ProvincialGovernment  under section 26 and with the previous  sanctionof the Director or any other officer specially empowered  inthis  behalf  by  the  Provincial  Government,	the   marketcommittee  may	in  respect of the  market  area  under	 itsmanagement make bye-laws for the regulation of the  businessand the conditions of trading therein.The Bombay Agricultural Produce Markets Rules, 1941.Rule  65 (1): No person shall do business as a trader  or  ageneral	 commission  agent in agricultural  produce  in	 anymarket	area  except under a licence granted by	 the  marketcommittee under this rule.(2).	  Any  person  desiring to hold such  licence  shallmake  a	 written  application for a licence  to	 the  marketcommittee and shall pay such fee as may be' specified in thebye-laws.(3). On receipt of such application together with the properamount	of  the fee the market committee may,  after  makingsuch  enquiries,  as  may be considered	 necessary  for	 theefficient  conduct  of	the market, grant  him	the  licenceapplied	 for.	On the grant of such licence  the  applicantshall  execute	an  agreement in such  form  as	 the  marketcommittee  may	determine, agreeing to	conform	 with  theserules  and the bye-laws and such other conditions as may  belaid down by the market committee for holding the licence.771(4).	  Notwithstanding  anything  -contained	 in  subrule(3),  the market committee may refuse to grant a licence  toany  person,  who, in its opinion, is not solvent  or  whoseoperations  in	the market area are not	 likely	 to  furtherefficient  working  of the market under the control  of	 themarket committee.(5).	  The  licence shall be granted for a period of	 oneyear,	after  which  it  may  be  renewed  on	 a   writtenapplication, and after such enquiries as are referred to  insub-section  (3)  as  may be considered	 necessary,  and  onpayment of such fees as may be specified in the bye-laws.(6).	  The  names  of  all  such  traders  and   general,commission  agents  shall  be entered in a  register  to  bemaintained for the purpose.(7).	  Whoever  does	 business as a trader or  a  generalcommission agent in agricultural produce in any market	areawithout	 a  licence  granted under this	 rule  or  otherwisecontravenes  any  of the provisions of this rule  shall,  onconviction, be punishable with fine which may extend to	 Rs.200  and  in the case of a continued  contravention  with  afurther fine which may extend to Rs. 50 for every day duringwhich  the  contravention continues after the  date  of	 thefirst conviction, subject to the maximum of Rs. 200.Bye-laws  of  the  Agricultural	 Produce  Market  Committee,Broach.Bye-law	 33: (1).  All traders, general	 commission  agents,brokers, weighmen, measurers, and surveyors operating in themarket area shall pay full fees for each market year or	 anypart  thereof  as per Schedule given in Appendix No.  2	 forobtaining  licences,  required to be taken  by	them,  underRules 65 and 67.The  said provisions may be summarized	thus: Section 27  ofthe Act empowers the Market Committee, subject to any  rulesmade  by  the  State Government under s.  26  and  with	 theprevious  sanction  of	the Director, to  make	bye-laws  inrespect of a market area for the regulation of the  businessand conditions of trading therein.  Section 26(1) of the Actenables the State Government to make rules for the  purposesof carrying out the provisions of the Act, In exercise of772that  power conferred under s. 26(1), the  State  Governmentmade  r.  65 prohibiting any trader from doing	business  inagricultural  produce except under a licence granted by	 theMarket Committee.  In exercise of powers conferred under  s.27  on the Market Committee, it made bye-law 33	 prescribingthe  fee payable in respect of a licence under r. 65 of	 theRules.The question is whether under s. 26(1) the State  Governmentis  empowered  to  make r. 65 prescribing the  taking  of  alicence as a condition for doing business in a market  area.It can do so for the purposes of carrying out the provisionsof  the Act.  Section 27, which is a provision of  the	Act,enables	 the  Market  Committee to  make  bye-laws  for	 theregulation of the business and the conditions of trading  inthe  market  area.   To	 enable	 the  Market  Committee	  todischarge  its	functions  under  s.  27  of  the  Act	moreeffectively, the Government made a rule prohibiting a traderfrom  doing business in a market area without  licence,	 andthe Market Committee prescribed the fees payable in  respectof  the	 licence.  The rule was certainly one made  for	 thepurpose	 of  facilitating the Market Committee	to  functioneffectively  under s. 27 of the Act.  That  the	 legislatureconferred  such	 a  power on the State	Government  is	alsosupported  by the provisions of s. 27 of the Act.  Under  s.27(1),	the  bye-laws made by the Market Committee  for	 theregulation  of	business and conditions of  trading  in	 themarket	area  are  subject to the rules made  by  the  StateGovernment under s. 26.	 This indicates that under s. 26  ofthe  Act, the State Government has also power to make  rulesfor the regulation of business and conditions of trading  inthe market area, and that power can be spelled out from	 theprovisions  of	s.  26(1) of the Act,  Therefore,  s.  26(1)confers	 ample power on the State Government to make r.	 65.In  this view, it is not necessary to invoke the  provisionsof s. 26(2)(e) to sustain the power of the State  Governmentto make r. 65.The  third contention though raised was not pursued in	Viewof  the word ,business" in r. 65(1) which  is  comprehensiveenough to take in even forward contracts.In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed,773