PETITIONER:ORIENTAL METAL PRESSING WORKS (P.)LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:BHASKAR KASHINATH THAKOOR &ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/12/1960BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAYAL, RAGHUBARCITATION: 1961 AIR  573		  1961 SCR  (3) 329ACT:Company-Managing  director appointing his successor by	will Validity--'Assignment', Meaning of--Companies Act, 1956  (1of 1956), ss. 312, 255.HEADNOTE:By s. 312 of the Companies Act, 1956, "Any assignment of hisoffice made after the commencement of this Act by any direc-tor of a company shall be void."42330The managing director of a private company, empowered by theterms  of the agreement between him and the company and	 thearticles thereof to appoint, by deed or by will, any  personto  be	the managing director in his place and	stead,	diedleaving	 a will whereby he appointed one of  the  appellantsthe  managing  director in his place from the  date  of	 hisdeath.	 The  High  Court  took	 the  view  that  the	word'assignment'  in the section included 'appointment'  and  assuch the appointment in question was void.Held,  that  S. 312 of the Companies Act,  1956,  cannot  beinterpreted in such a way as to bring it into conflict	withS. 255 of the Act since its language does not compel such aninterpretation.	 The word 'assignment' in that section	doesnot mean appointment and the section is intended to render atransfer  of  his  office  by a director  void	and  not  anappointment by him of his successor.Section 255 of the Act, which expressly permits directors tobe appointed otherwise than by the company, shows that, sub-ject  to  the  limit  as to  numbers  prescribed  by  it,  adirector,  authorised  by the articles of the  company,	 canappoint	 another to take his office when rendered vacant  byhis resignation or death or on expiry of his term of office.The proviso to s. 86B of the old Act cannot lend any supportto the argument that the word 'assignment' in s. 312 of	 thenew Act includes 'appointment'.The  Guardians	of the Poor of the West Derby Union  v.	 TheMetropolitan  Life  Assurance  Society, [1879]	A.  C.	647,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 10 of 1960.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated February 24, 1959,of the Bombay High Court in First Appeal No. 540 of 1958.M....C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, A. P.  Bhatt,Rameshwar  Nath,  S.  N.  Andley, P.  L.  Vohra	 and  J.  B.Dadachanji, for the appellants.The respondent did not appear.1960.  December 16.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySARKAR,	 J.-Dadoba  Tukaram Thakoor carried  on	 a  businessunder  the name and style of Oriental Metal Pressing  Works.On May 26,1955, a private company was incorporated under thename of Oriental Metal Pressing Works Ltd., hereafter calledthe Company,331to  take  over	the aforesaid business.	 On  July  7,  1955,Dadoba transferred his business to the Company.	 On the samedate,  an agreement was made between him and the Company  bywhich he was appointed the managing director of the  Companyfor life and was given the power "by deed inter vivos or  bywill  or  codicil  to appoint any person to  be	 a  managingdirector  in  his place and stead".  Regulation 109  of	 thearticles  of the Company reproduced these  provisions.	 Theshareholders  of the Company were Dadoba, his  brother,	 therespondent  Bhaskar, and his two sons, the appellant  Govindand the respondent Harish, of whom the first three were	 thedirectors,   Dadoba  being  the	 managing  director.	Thisconstitution of the Company continued till Dadoba's death onJanuary 14, 1957.Dadoba	had  died  leaving a will whereby  he  purported  toappoint	 the appellant Govind the managing director  of	 theCompany	 in his place from the date of his  death.   Shortlyafter  Dadoba's death, disputes arose between the  appellantGovind and the respondent Bhaskar.  The appellant Govind wascontending  that the respondent Bhaskar had ceased to  be  adirector on account of his failure to attend the  directors'meetings.   He also purported to co-opt the appellant  Bhal-chandra	 as  a director.  The respondent  Bhaskar  contendedthat  be had not ceased to be a director and challenged	 thelegality of the appointment of the appellant Bhalchandra  asa  director.  He further contended that the  appointment  ofthe appellant Govind as the managing director of the Companyby the will of Dadoba, was void.  On November 22, 1957,	 therespondent  Bhaskar filed a suit in the City Civil Court  ofBombay	against	 the  Company,	the  appellants	 Govind	 andBhalchandra  and  the respondent Harish	 for  the  followingdeclarations and for reliefs incidental thereto:(a)..the appointment of the appellant Govind as the managingdirector was void;(b)..the   appointment	of  the	 appellant  Bhalchandra	  asdirector was illegal and inoperative; and(c)..he	 (the respondent Bhaskar) was and continued to be  adirector.332The  learned Judge of the City Civil Court accepted all	 thecontentions   of  the  respondent  Bhaskar  and	  made	 thedeclarations claimed.The  Company  and  the	appellants  Govind  and	 Bhalchandraappealed  from	this decision to the High Court	 at  Bombay.The appeal came up for hearing before a bench of two learnedJudges	of  that Court.	 These learned Judges  having  takendifferent views, the matter was referred to another  learnedJudge  of  the	same High Court.   In  the  eventual  resultaccording  to  the opinion of the majority  of	the  learnedJudges, the appeal was dismissed and the decree of the	CityCivil Court was confirmed.  The High Court however granted acertificate under Art. 133(1)(c) of the Constitution and thepresent	 appeal	 has been filed by the Company,	 Govind	 andBalchandra pursuant thereto.  The respondents to this appealare Bhaskar and Harish.It appears that while the appeal was pending in this  Court,the  respondent Bhaskar sold his holding in the	 Company  tothe appellant Govind and has now no interest in the  Companyor the appeal.	No one has consequently appeared to  contestthe  appeal in this Court, the respondent Harish  apparentlynot  being interested in doing so.  In these  circumstances,the questions whether the respondent Bhaskar continues to bea director and whether the appellant Bhalchandra was legallyco-opted  as a director are no longer live issues  and	havenot  been  canvassed  in this appeal.	On  those  questionstherefore  we  express no opinion.  Another  result,  ratherunfortunate, has been that we have not had the advantage  ofarguments against the appeal.The Courts below held that the appointment of the  appellantGovind	as managing director by the will of Dadoba was	voidin  view of the provisions of s. 312 of the  Companies	Act,1956.  That section reads thus:	      S.....312.  "Any assignment of his office made	      after  the  commencement of this	Act  by	 any	      director of a company shall be void."The Act came into force on April 1, 1956 and Dadoba had bothmade his will and died, after that date.  The appointment ofthe appellant Govind as managing333director was, therefore, made after the commencement of	 theAct.Now, s. 312 makes the assignment of his office by a directorvoid.	It  does  not  on  the	face  of  it,  say  that  anappointment by a director of another person as the  directorin his place, would be void.  The High Court, however,	tookthe view that the word "assignment" in the section  included"appointment",	and  so, such an appointment would  also  bevoid  under the section.  What we have to decide is  whetherthe High Court was right in this view.Before we proceed to examine this question, we have to pointout one thing.	It appears that the High Court thought	thatthe  appellants-  had  conceded that  an  appointment  by  adirector of another in his  place by act inter vivous be  anassignment  of the office of a director within s.  312,	 andhad  only contended that such an appointment by will,  whichis what had been done by Dadoba, would not be an  assignmentand  would  not therefore be rendered void by  the  section.The learned Attorney-General, appearing for the	 appellants,said  that in this the High Court was in error and  no	suchconcession  had	 been made.  He further	 expressly  withdrewthat  concession.  This he was clearly entitled to do.	 It,therefore,  becomes  unnecessary  for us to  deal  with	 theseasonings of the High Court in support of the view acceptedby it, which were based on the concession.We have given the views of the High Court a most  respectfuland anxious consideration but we do not find ourselves	ableto agree with them.  We will presently state our reasons forthis  conclusion, but now we wish to point out that  in	 theview  that  we	have  taken of the matter  it  will  not  benecessary  for us to deal with the argument advanced in	 theHigh  Court  that the section only forbade a  director	fromappointing  his	 successor,  assuming  assignment   includedappointment, but it did not prevent a managing director fromassigning his office, or appointing his successor which	 waswhat  Dadoba  had done.	 If the section did  not  prevent  adirector  from	appointing his successor, which	 we  do	 notthink it did, then, clearly, there is nothing334in  it which can justify the view that a  managing  directorcannot appoint his successor.The section says that a director shall not be able to assignhis office.  It may be, as the High Court pointed out,	thatapart	from   "transfer"  another  meaning  of	  the	word"assignment"  is, "appointment".  But on a plain reading  ofthe  language  used in the section, it does not seem  to  uspossible to hold that the word "assignment" in it, can	mean"appointment".First, the section talks of "assignment of his office" by  adirector.   The	 word "his" would indicate that	 the  officecontemplated  was  one held by the director at the  time  ofassignment.  An appointment to an office can be made only ifthe office is vacant.  It is legitimate, therefore, to inferthat by using the word "his" the Legislature indicated	thatan  appointment	 by  a	director  to  the  office  which  hepreviously  held  but  did  not hold  at  the  date  of	 theappointment,  was  not	to  be	included  within  the	word"assignment".  Again, there can be no doubt that the sectionwas  intended to render void a transfer of his office  by  adirector  for, if the section had intended only to avoid  anappointment  by a director of his successor, it	 would	haveclearly	  said	so  and	 would	not  have  used	  the	word"assignment".	Therefore,  even if it is possible  for	 theword "assignment" to have the meaning of "appointment", thenit  would have to be given both the meanings  of  "transfer"and  "appointment"  in the section.  This is what  the	HighCourt  did.  That would produce a curious result.   Transferand appointment are clearly entirely different things.	Evenapart	from   considerations  arising	from  the   law	  ofconveyance, which the High Court was unable to entertain  inconnection  with the transfer of an office, a transfer	fromits  very nature inevitably imports the passing of  a  thingfrom  one to another; a transfer without the passing of	 thething transferred, even when that thing is an office, cannotbe  conceived.	 An "appointment", on the  other  band,	 hasnothing to do with anything passing from one to another;  itconnotes  the putting in of someone in a vacancy.  The	actsconstituting a transfer and an appointment are335therefore wholly dissimilar.  It would be an unusual statutewhich  by the use of a single word intended to	prohibit  atthe  same time, two wholly different acts.  We do not  thinkthat a construction leading to such a result is permissible.Secondly,  s. 255 of the Act permits one-third of the  totalnumber	of  directors  of  a  public  company  and  all	 thedirectors  of  a private company to be	appointed  otherwisethan  by the company at a general meeting, if  the  articlesmake provision in this regard.	The Act therefore  expresslypermits	 directors  to be appointed otherwise  than  by	 thecompany.  It follows that within the limit as to the  numberprescribed  by	the  section,  a  power	 of  appointment  ofdirectors  can be legitimately conferred by the articles  onany person including one who holds the office of a director.The  Act expressly permits such power being  conferred.	  Inorder,	however, that a director may exercise this power  ofappointment,  there must be a vacant office of	a  director.He  may himself bring about that vacancy by  resignation  ofhis office.  The vacancy would again be caused by his  deathor by the expiry of the term of his office.  It would followthat  the Act contemplates an appointment by a	director  ofanother	 person	 as director to take his office,  when	madevacant by his resignation or death or the expiry of the termof his office.	There will be nothing illegal, if the  poweris exercised in the case of the death of the director, by anappointment  made by his will.	It will not be right  so  tointerpret  s. 312, when its language does not compel it,  asto  bring in conflict with the provisions of s.	 255.	Thiswould happen, if the word "   assignment"in   s.   312	 wasinterpreted as including "appointment" and thereby making itprevent a director from appointing his successor when s. 255permits him to do that.	 Therefore again we think that in s.312 the word "assignment" does not mean "appointment".The  High   Court was of the view that	unless	"assignment"included  "appointment",  the object of ,the  Act  would  bedefeated.  It was said that the intention and the object  ofthe section was to restrain and336prevent	 a director from putting some one in his  place	 andstead  by  any	act on his part.   This	 point	was  furtherexpressed  more clearly in the following words: "It  is	 nowwell  understood  that	the  new  Companies  Act,  aims	  ateradicating  many  serious mischief which the  principle  ofperpetual  management of companies had caused in the  past".The  High Court felt that it would be defeating that aim  byreading	 s. 312 as if the words "assignment of	his  office"only  meant a "transfer of office" and did not	include	 theappointment of his successor by a director.  Apparently	 theHigh Court thought that by making it possible for a directorto choose his successor, the management of the company wouldbe  permitted to remain all along in one hand and  this	 theAct wanted to prevent.	It does not seem to us that the	 Actwanted	to prevent this.  The act by enacting s.  255  showsthat  it  does not disapprove of a person  having  power  toappoint	 a  succession	of directors and in the	 case  of  aprivate	 company,  a succession even of all  the  directors.Such  a person would have what has been described  as  "per-petual	management".  It would follow that the Act  did	 notconsider  this	as an evil which  required  prevention.	  If perpetual	management  by an outsider is not an  evil,  norwould  such  management	 by one who is	a  director  of	 thecompany	 be so.	 This aspect is very clearly illustrated  bythe  case in hand.  Dadoba had this "perpetual	management".But  the  whole of the Company's undertaking  was  really  alargess from him.  In fact he held nearly 43% of the  sharesof the Company.	 It is inconceivable that perpetual  manage-ment  by  him  would have worked to  the  detriment  of	 theCompany.   We are therefore unable to agree that it was	 theobject	of the Act or of s. 312 to prevent a  director	fromappointing his successor.In  view of the clear provisions of s. 255 we do  not  thinkthat it can be said, as was done in the High Court, that ss.254 and 317 of the Act, impliedly indicate that there shouldbe  no	perpetual  management.	 Section  254  says  that  acorporation  or	 an  association of  persons  shall  not  beeligible as a director.	 But this is not because, otherwise,there would be perpetual337management.   The persons comprising the corporation or	 theassociation  must change from time to time and so,  even  ifthey  were appointed directors, there would be no  perpetualmanagement.  We rather think that the idea behind s. 254  isthat as the office of a director is to some extent an officeof trust, there should be somebody readily available who canbe  held responsible for the failure to carry out the  trustand it might be difficult to fix that responsibility if	 thedirector  was  a corporation or an association	of  persons.Turning to s. 317, we find that it provides that a  managingdirector cannot be appointed for a term exceeding five yearsat a time.  Section 315 however makes s. 317 inapplicable toa  private company.  Therefore, s. 317 is not  available  tosupport	 an  argument that the Act does not want  a  privatecompany-and we are concerned with that type of a  company-tobe  under perpetual management.	 But indeed s. 317 does	 notsupport	 that  argument	 in the case  of  a  public  companyeither.	  It forbids an appointment of a  managing  directorfor  more  than	 five years "at a  time".   It	permits	 themanaging  director to be reappointed after a term  is  over.If  he	is so reappointed, then there  would  be  "perpetualmanagement" by him.  The Act does not, therefore, intend  bys.  317, to prevent that.  Lastly, s. 317 is  not  concernedwith the directors, which s. 312 is.Another argument that has to be dealt with is that if s. 312does  not  prohibit  an appointment by	a  director  of	 hissuccessor,  that section can easily be rendered	 infructuousby  a  director adopting the simple device of  appointing  aperson	as his successor in office instead  of	transferringthe  office to him.  It seems to us that the  question	doesnot  really arise.  A director can legally  and	 effectivelyappoint his successor only to the extent the articles permitthis subject, of course, to the limit prescribed in s.	255in the case of a public company.  An appointment so  legallymade does not result in an evasion of s. 312 for, as we haveearlier said, the section could not have intended to preventwhat another section in the same43338Act  made  legal.  An appointment made	outside	 the  powerslegally conferred by the articles is wholly ineffective' andtherefore is not an appointment at all and hence again, doesnot result in an evasion of s. 312.We  have  now  to consider an argument based  on  the  firstproviso	 to s. 86B of the Companies Act of 1913.   The	mainpart of s. 86B contained a provision analogous to that of s.312 of the new Act.  It made an assignment of his office  bya  director to another person, under an agreement  with	 thecompany,  void,	 unless such assignment was  approved  by  aspecial	 resolution of the company.  Under the new  Act	 theassignment  has	 been  made altogether void  and  would	 notbecome valid even if approved by a special resolution of thecompany.  Now, the proviso laid down that the exercise by  adirector of a power to appoint an alternate director to	 actfor him during an absence of not less than three months fromthe  district  in  which  meetings  of	the  directors	 areordinarily  held, if done with the approval of the board  ofdirectors, would not be deemed to be an assignment of officewithin the meaning of this section.  The High Court took theview that this proviso showed that in certain  circumstancesan  appointment by a director of another in his place  mightbe  deemed to bean assignment of his office and	 that  sincethe  new  Act is a consolidating Act, it must be  deemed  tohave continued the policy of the earlier Act and, therefore,for  the purpose of s. 312, an "assignment" must include  an"appointment".The learned Attorney-General pointed out that in the new Actthere is no proviso, and therefore the rule of	constructionapplied	 by  the  High Court, which  enables  by  raising  apresumption, something to be included in the main part of  asection by reason of a provision in a proviso to it, has  noapplication  to the new Act for, here the provision  in	 theproviso	 has  been  enacted in the form	 of  an	 independentsection,  namely, s. 313.  According to him, this  departurefrom  the old arrangement of the provisions, in the new	 Actshows that it was not intended to continue the policy339of the old Act.	 He also said that the proviso in  substancestated	that the appointment by a director of  an  alternatedirector  might in certain circumstances be deemed to be  anassignment.  He pointed out that by using the word  "deemed"the  proviso  made  it clear that  the	appointment  of	 an'alternate  director was not a real assignment of office	 butwas only to be fictionally taken as one.  His contention wasthat  such  fiction could arise in a  case  coming  strictlywithin	the  proviso but could not by extension be  made  toarise  in any other case.  These seem to us to be  argumentsof  weight.   Further in s. 313 of the new  Act,  which	 hastaken  the place of the first proviso to s. 86B of  the	 oldAct,  the  power to appoint an alternate director  hag	beengiven  to the board and not to the director who	 intends  toabsent himself No scope for any deeming provision as in	 theAct  of 1913 remains.  Therefore again an argument based  onthe proviso to s. 86B would not be available for the purposeof the present Act.It  further seems to us that the proviso to s. 86B does	 notindicate that it was intended that the word "assignment"  inthe  main part of the section would  include  "appointment".The  rule of construction on which the High Court relied  inarriving  at the view that it did, was put in  these  words:"It  is	 a well established principle of  construction	thatwhen  one finds a proviso to a section, the  presumption  isthat  but for the proviso the enacting part of	the  sectionwould have included the subject matter of the proviso." Thisrule  would enable the court to hold in regard to s. 86B  atthe  most that an appointment of an alternate director by  adirector  intending  to absent himself would  have  been  anassignment  of his office but for the proviso.	It would  bean unwarranted extension of this principle to hold that	 allappointments  of  their	 successors by	directors  would  beassignments  within  the main part of the section.   In	 anycase, in our view, as	 in s. 312 of the new Act, so  underthe main part of s. 86B of the old Act, an appointment of  asuccessor to   his   office  by	 a  director,  was  not	  anassignment  of his office by him for, the old Act  containedin s. 83B,340provisions  substantially similar to those contained  in  s.255 of the new Act., and the reasons which have inclined  usto  the view that in s. 312 the word "assignment"  does	 notinclude	 "appointment"	would  equally	lead  to  the	sameconclusion  in regard to s. 86B.  If the enacting  part	 didnot prohibit the appointment of his successor by a director,such prohibition cannot be read into it, in reliance upon  aproviso.   We may read here the observations of Lord  Watsonin The Guardians of the Poor of the West Derby Union v.	 TheMetropolitan Life Assurance Society (1)	      "I am perfectly clear that if the language  of	      the  enacting  part of the  statute  does	 not	      contain the provisions which are said to occur	      in  it, you cannot derive these provisions  by	      implication from a proviso."It may be that the proviso was enacted ex abundanti  cautelaor  it may be again, to prevent a possible argument that  bythe  appointment  of alternate directors an evasion  of	 themain  part  of s. 86B was being attempted.  In view  of	 thefact  that the power to appoint alternate directors was	 notgiven  by the old Act, but had to be given by the  articles,such  an argument might not have been unlikely.	  Therefore,it  seems  to us that the proviso to s. 86B of the  old	 Actdoes not assist the argument that in s. 312 of the new	Act,the word "assignment" would include "appointment".We think we ought to say something about what strikes us  tobe the policy behind s. 312 of the new Act.  We have earliersaid  that  under  s. 255 of that Act a	 certain  Dumber  ofdirectors  in  a public company has to be appointed  by	 thecompany	 in  a general meeting.	 In the case  of  a  privatecompany	 likewise,  the	 directors  have  to  be   appointedsimilarly  except  to  the  extent  the	 articles  otherwiseprovide.  It would therefore appear to be the policy of	 theAct  that  to  a  certain extent  the  appointments  of	 thedirectors  have	 to  be made by	 the  shareholders.   It  isintended  that	a certain number of directors would  be	 thechosen	representatives of the shareholders.  If a  directorappointed(1)  [1897] A.C. 647, 652.341by the company was permitted to assign his office, then	 thenew incumbent would not be the chosen representative of	 theshareholders,  and  the	 intention  of	the  Act  would	  bedefeated.  It seems to us that it is to prevent this  resultthat the Act forbids a director by s. 312 from assigning hisoffice.	  Where	 however  a  director  has  been   appointedotherwise  than	 by the company in a  general  meeting,	 theshareholders have nothing to do with his appointment.	Sucha   director  is  not  the  chosen  representative  of	 theshareholders and the shareholders cannot claim to have a sayin  the	 appointment of his successor.	We  can	 discern  nopolicy	in  the Act which can. be said to be  liable  to  bedefeated  by  the  appointment of the successor	 of  such  adirector  by him.  Therefore s. 312 was not  concerned	withsuch an appointment.In  the present case Dadoba had power under the articles  toappoint a person to be the managing. director in  successionto  him, and in exercise of that power he bad appointed	 theappellant Govind as the managing director to hold the officeafter his death.  Such power was clearly recognised by,	 andlegal under, s. 255 of the new Act.  For the reasons earlierstated,	 the exercise of such power does not offend s.	312.It  follows that the appellant Govind had been lawfully	 andvalidly appointed the managing director of the Company.We,  therefore, declare that the appellant Govind  had	beenvalidly appointed the managing director of the Company,	 andset aside the decisions of the Courts below that he had	 notbeen so appointed.  We have not been asked to interfere withthe  rest of the judgment under appeal and we do not do	 so.We also make no order for costs as no costs have been asked.			     Appeal allowed.		   ______________342