PETITIONER:VASANTLAL MAGANBHAI SANJANWALA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY AND OTHERS.(AND CONNECTED APPEAL)DATE OF JUDGMENT:25/08/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR    4		  1961 SCR  (1) 341 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC 980	 (8) R	    1965 SC1107	 (29,79,80,ETC.) RF	    1967 SC 212	 (26) OPN	    1967 SC1048	 (20) R	    1967 SC1895	 (13) RF	    1968 SC1232	 (18,85,95) RF	    1973 SC1374	 (11) RF	    1973 SC1461	 (227,450,566) R	    1974 SC1660	 (20) O	    1978 SC1296	 (46) RF	    1978 SC1457	 (60) RF	    1979 SC 321	 (10) R	    1980 SC 350	 (8) RF	    1980 SC2181	 (145) F	    1986 SC1172	 (7,10) R	    1990 SC 560	 (13)ACT:Agricultural  Tenancy,	Regulation  of-Enactment  empoweringGovernment   to	  fix  lower  rate  of	 maximum   rent	  bynotification-If	   vitiated   by    excessive	 delegation-Notification,  validity of-Bombay Tenancy  and	AgriculturalLands Act, 1948 (Bom.  LXVII of 1948), s. 6(2).HEADNOTE:Section	 6(1) of the Bombay Tenancy and	 Agricultural  LandsAct,  1948 (Bom.  LXVII of 1948), provided that the  maximumrent payable by a tenant shall not in the case of  irrigatedland  exceed  one-fourth and in the case of any	 other	landexceed	one third of the crop of such land or its  value  asdetermined  by the prescribed manner.  Section 6(2)  of	 theAct read as follows,--"  The	Provincial Government may, by  notification  in	 theOfficial  Gazette,  fix	 a lower rate of  the  maximum	rentpayable	 by the tenants of lands situate in  any  particulararea or may fix such rate on any other suitable basis as  itthinks fit."By  a  notification  under that section	 the  Government  ofBombay,	  in   supersession  of	 all   other   notificationsprescribed a rate of maximum rent which was very much  lowerthan  the one previously fixed.	 The petitioners  challengedthe  vires  of	the said section and  the  validity  of	 thenotification  under  Art. 226 of the Constitution,  but	 theHigh   Court   found  against  them.	The   question	 fordetermination in these appeals was whether s. 6(2) conferredunguided  power on the Government and was void by reason  ofexcessive delegation of legislative power.342Held  (per Sinha, C. J., Kapur, Gajendragadkar and  Wanchoo,jj.) that although the power of delegation is a	 constituentelement of the legislative power, it is well-settled that  alegislature   cannot  delegate	its  essential	 legislativefunction  in  any  case	 and  before  it  can  delegate	 anysubsidiary or ancillary powers to a delegate of its  choice,it must lay down the legislative policy and principle so  asto afford the delegate proper  guidance in implementing	 thesame.	A  statute  challenged on the  ground  of  excessivedelegation  must, therefore, be subjected to two tests,	 (1)whether it delegates essential legislative function or powerand  (2) whether the legislature has enunciated	 its  policyand  principle for the guidance of the delegate.  It  is  inthat  light  that  the	preamble  of  the  statute  and	 itsprovisions relating to delegation should be considered.Harishankay  Bagla v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1955]  1S. C. R. 288 and The Edward Mills Co. Ltd., Beawar v.  Stateof Ajmer [1955] 1 S.C.R. 735, referred to.The  preamble  and the material provisions of the  Act	showthat  it seeks to improve the economic and social  conditionof the peasants and with that end in view fixes maximum rentpayable	 by the tenants and provides a speedy machinery	 forfixation  of  reasonable rent.	This being  the	 legislativepolicy and regard being had to the specific provisions	laiddown by s. 12(3) of the Act for determining reasonable rent,it  is	impossible to hold that the power delegated  to	 theProvincial  Government by s. 6(2) was vitiated by  excessivedelegation.  The fact that no minimum was prescribed by	 thesection could not alter the position.Held,  further,	 that  since the Act itself  is	 within	 theprotection of Art. 31-B of the Constitution and there can beno question as to the validity of s. 6(2), the	notificationissued	in exercise of the power conferred by  that  sectioncannot	 be  challenged	 as  infringing	 Art.  31   of	 theConstitution.Nor  was  it correct to say that the power delegated  by  s.6(2) could be used only once and no more.Per Subba Rao, J.-The essential legislative function is	 thedetermination of the legislative policy and its	 formulationas  a  rule of conduct.	 Obviously  the	 legislature  cannotabdicate its functions in favour of another.  But in view ofthe  multifarious activities of a welfare State,  it  cannotpresumably  work  out all the details to  suit	the  varyingaspects	 of  a	complex	 situation.   It  must	 necessarilydelegate the working out of details to the executive or	 anyother  agency.	 But there is a danger inherent	 in  such  aprocess	 of delegation.	 It may not lay down any  policy  atall;  it may declare its policy in vague and general  terms;it  may	 not set down any standard for the guidance  of	 theexecutive, it may confer an arbitrary power on the executiveto  change  or	modify the policy laid down  by	 it  withoutreserving   for	  itself  any	control	  over	 subordinatelegislation.   This self effacement of legislative power  infavour of another agency343either in whole or in part is beyond the permissible  limitsof  delegation.	  It  is  for a Court to  hold	on  a  fair,generous  and  liberal construction of an  impugned  statutewhether the legislature exceeded such limits.  But the	saidliberal construction should not be carried by the courts  tothe extent of always trying to discover a dormant or  latentlegislative  policy to sustain an arbitrary power  conferredon executive authorities.In  re	The  Delhi  Laws  Act,	1912,  [1951]  S.C.R.	747,Rajnarain,  Singh  v.  The  Chairman,  Patna  AdministrationCommittee,  Patna, [1955] 1 S. C. R. 290, Harishankay  Baglav.  The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1955] 1 S. C. R. 380,	 TheEdward Mills Co., Ltd., Beaway v. The State of Ajmer, [1955]1  S.  C. R. 735 and Hamdard Dawakhana v.  Union  of  India,[1960] 2 S.C.R. 671, referred to.The  whole  scheme of the Bombay  Tenancy  and	AgriculturalLands  Act,  1948 (LXVII of 1948), excluding s. 6(2),  is  aself  contained and integrated one.  The  legislature  fixesthe  maximum  rent  linked with crop having  regard  to	 thenature	of  the land, and the other  provisions	 enable	 theappropriate  authorities to fix reasonable rent	 subject  tothat maximum.  But under s. 6(2) the legislature in clearestterms  abdicated  its essential functions in favour  of	 theexecutive authority without laying down any standard for itsguidance.  In effect it permitted the Government to amend s.6(1)  of the Act.  While s. 6(1) overrides other  provisionsof the Act, s. 6(2) derogates from s. 6(1) itself.   Section6(2)  is capable of being exercised in such a way  that	 theobject	of  s. 6(1) is itself frustrated.  Section  6(1)  ineffect	is  made  subject to s. 6(2).  This  is	 clearly  anabdication  by the legislature of its essential	 legislativefunction and the delegation must be held void.It  was not correct to say that the factors specified by  s.12(3) afforded a standard 'for fixing the maximum rent.	  Itwas not permissible to read them into s. 6(2) of the Act.No legislature can be legally permitted to lay down a  broadpolicy	in general terms and confer arbitrary powers on	 theexecutive for carrying it out.	Such a law must obviously becontrary to the decisions of this Court and cannot be valid.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 147 &	 148of 1955.Appeals	 from  the judgment and order  dated  September	 30,1953,  of  the	former Bombay High Court  in  Special  CivilApplications Nos. 1008 and 1611 of 1953.V.   M.	 Limaye, Mrs. E. Udayaratnam and S. S.	Shukla,	 forthe appellants (in both the appeals).H.   N.	 Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of  India,  B.Ganapathy  Iyer,  K.  L. Hathi and R.  H.  Dhebar,  for	 therespondent.3441960.	August	25.  The Judgment of Sinha,  C.	 J.,  Kapur,Gajendragadkar	 and   Wanchoo,	 JJ.,	was   delivered	  byGajendragadkar,	 J.  Subba  Rao, J.,  delivered	 a  separatejudgment.GAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-The appellants in these two	appeals	 hadfiled	two  separate  petitions  under	 Art.  226  of	 theConstitution  in  the Bombay High Court in  which  they	 hadchallenged  the vires of s. 6(2) of the Bombay	Tenancy	 andAgricultural  Lands  Act, 1948 (LXVII  of  1948)  (hereaftercalled the Act) and the validity of the notification  issuedby the Government on	 October   17,	 1952,	 under	 theprovisions of the said s.     6(2).  It appears that on June23, 1949, in exercise of the powers conferred by s. 6(2)  ofthe  Act, the Government had issued a notification fixing  "in the case of an irrigated land 1/5 and in the case of	 anyother  land  1/4 of the crops of such land or its  value  asdetermined  in	the prescribed manner as  the  maximum	rentpayable	 by  the tenants of the lands situate in  the  areasspecified  in the schedule appended thereto ".	Amongst	 theareas  thus specified was the area in which the	 appellants'lands  are situated.  Subsequently, on October 17, 1952,  byvirtue	of the same powers and in supersession of all  otherearlier	 notifications issued in that behalf the  Governmentpurported  to prescribe a rate as the lower rate of  maximumrent  at which the rent shall be payable by the	 tenants  inrespect	 of  the  lands situate in the	areas  specified  inSchedule I appended to it. It is unnecessary to set out	 therates thus prescribed ; it would be enough to state that therate of maximum rent prescribed by this notification is verymuch lower than the rate which had been fixed by the earlierone.  By their petitions filed in the Bombay High Court	 theappellants contended that s. 6(2) was ultra vires, and	thateven if s. 6(2) was valid the impugned notification was	 in-valid.	Accordingly they prayed for a writ of mandamus or  awrit  in  the nature of mandamus or  any  other	 appropriatedirection or order against the Government, the Mamlatdar  ofthe area concerned and their respective tenants	 prohibitingthem  or  any  one of them from giving effect  to  the	saidnotification.345They  also  claimed a direction or order  to  the  opponentsdirecting   them   to  cancel  or  withdraw   the   impugnednotification.	These two petitions were heard by  the	HighCourt  along with other companion matters in which the	samepoints	were  raised,  and  in the  result  the	 High  Courtdismissed  the	petitions.  It held that s. 6(2)  was  intravires  and the impugned	 notification was  legal  and valid.The  appellants then applied for and obtained a	 certificatefrom  the  High Court, and it is with the  said	 certificatethat they have come to this Court by their two appeals.At  the outset it may be relevant to state that,  subsequentto  the	 decision  under appeal, in 1956 the  Act  has	beensubstantially  amended and now s. 8 of the new Act  providesfor  the rent and its maximum and minimum.   Shortly  statedthis  section  incorporates the provisions of  the  impugnednotification and adds to it the further provision that in nocase  shall the rent be less than twice the assessment.	  Inconsequence  the  point raised in the  present	appeals	 hasceased to be of any importance ; at best it may affect	justa  few	cases  between landlords and  tenants  that  may  bepending in respect of the rent payable by the latter to	 theformer	for  a period prior to 1956.  At the time  when	 thecertificate   was  granted  the	 questions  raised  by	 theappellants were undoubtedly of general importance.We would first read s. 6 of the Act.  Section 6(1)  providesthat  notwithstanding any agreement, usage, decree or  orderof  a court or any law the maximum rent payable by a  tenantfor  the  lease	 of any land shall not in  the	case  of  anirrigated  land	 exceed one fourth and in the  case  of	 anyother land exceed one third of the crop of such land or	 itsvalue as determined in the prescribed manner.  Section	6(2)provides that the Provincial Government may by	notificationin the official gazette fix a lower rate of the maximum rentpayable	 by the tenants of lands situate in  any  particulararea or may fix such rate on any other suitable basis as  itthinks	fit.   For the appellants Mr. Limaye  has  contendedthat s. 6(2) suffers from the vice of excessive	 delegation.His argument is that346the   power  delegated	to  the	 Provincial  Government	  isunfettered and uncanalised and no guidance has been affordedto it for exercising the said power.  He has also relied  onthe fact that while giving such wide powers to the  delegatein fixing the lower rate of the maximum rent the Legislaturehas not prescribed any	minimum as it should have done.	 TheHigh Court has held that the delegation involved in s.	6(2)is  within permissible limits and as such the  challenge  tothe vires of the said provision cannot succeed.It  is now well-established by the decisions of	 this  Courtthat the power of delegation is a constituent element of thelegislative power as a whole, and that in modern times	whenthe  Legislatures  enact laws to meet the challenge  of	 thecomplex	  socioeconomic	  problems,  they  often   find	  itconvenient and necessary to delegate subsidiary or ancillarypowers	to  delegates of their choice for carrying  out	 thepolicy	laid down by their Acts.  The extent to	 which	suchdelegation  is	permissible is also now	 well-settled.	 TheLegislature   cannot  delegate	its  essential	 legislativefunction  in  any case.	 It must lay  down  the	 legislativepolicy and principle, and must afford guidance for  carryingout  the  said	policy before it  delegates  its  subsidiarypowers	in  that behalf.  As has been observed	by  Mahajan,C.J.,  in Harishankar Bagla v. The State of  Madhya  Pradesh(1) "the Legislature cannot delegate its function of  layingdown  legislative  policy in respect of a  measure  and	 itsformulation  as	 a rule of conduct.   The  Legislature	mustdeclare the policy of the law and the legal principles whichare to control any given cases, and must provide a  standardto  guide the officials or the body in power to execute	 thelaw  ".	 In dealing with the challenge to the vires  of	 anystatute	 on  the  ground  of  excessive	 delegation  it	 is,therefore,   necessary	to  enquire  whether  the   impugneddelegation   involves	the  delegation	 of   an   essentiallegislative  function or power and whether  the	 Legislaturehas  enunciated its policy and principle and given  guidanceto the delegate or not.	 As the decision in Bagla's  case(1)shows, in applying this test this Court has taken into(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 381, 388.			    347account	 the statements in the preamble to the Act,  and  ifthe said statements afford a satisfactory basis for  holdingthat   the  legislative	 policy	 and  principle	  has	beenenunciated with sufficient accuracy and clarity the preambleitself	has  been held to satisfy the  requirements  of	 therelevant  tests.   In every case it would  be  necessary  toconsider  the relevant provisions of the Act in relation  tothe  delegation	 made  and the question as  to	whether	 thedelegation is intra vires or not will have to be decided  bythe application of therelevant tests.In this connection we may also refer to the decision of thisCourt in The Edward Mills Co. Ltd., Beawar v. State of Ajmer(1), where the validity of the notification issued under theprovisions  of	the  Minimum  Wages  Act  XI  of  1948	 wasimpeached, and the said challenge raised the question  aboutthe validity of the delegation provided for by s. 27 of	 thesaid  Act.   The scheme of the Act was that a  schedule	 hadbeen  attached	to it which gave a list of  employments	 to.which  the provisions of the Act applied an s. 7 gave  powerto  the appropriate Government to add to either part of	 theschedule  any  employment  in respect of  which	 it  was  ofopinion	 that the minimum wages shall be fixed and this	 theappropriate  Government	 was  authorised  to  do  by  givingnotification  in a broad manner, and thereupon the  scheduleshall,	in  its application to the State, be  deemed  to  beamended	 accordingly.  The  argument was that  the  Act	 hadnowhere	 formulated a legislative policy according to  whichan  employment	should be chosen for being included  in	 theschedule; no principles had been prescribed and no standardslaid  down  in	that  behalf,  and  so	the  delegation	 wasunfettered  and uncanalised.  This argument was rejected  bythis  Court on the broad consideration that the	 legislativepolicy	was apparent on the face of the Act itself.  "	Whatthe Act aims at ", observed Mukherjea, J., as he then was, "is  the statutory fixation of minimum wages with a  view  toobviate the chance of exploitation of labour.(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 735,750.45348The  Legislature undoubtedly intended to apply this Act	 notto  all	 industries but to those industries  only  where  byreason of unorganised labour or want of proper	arrangementsfor  effective regulation of wages or for other	 causes	 thewages of labourers in a particular industry were very low ".The learned Judge then pointed out that conditions of labourvary under  different circumstances and from State to State,and  the  expediency  of including  a  particular  trade  orindustry within the schedule depends upon a variety of factswhich  are not uniform and which can best be ascertained  bythe  person who is placed in charge of administration  of  aparticular  State.   It	 is with a view	 to  carry  out	 theparticular purpose of the Act that power is delegated to theappropriate Government by s. 27.  That is how the  challengeto the vires of s. 27 was repelled.The present Act is undoubtedly a beneficent measure.  It hasenacted provisions for agrarian reform which the Legislaturethought was overdue.  The preamble shows that the object  ofthe Act, inter alia, was to improve the economic and  socialcondition of peasants and ensure the full and efficient	 useof land for agriculture.  With that object the Act has	madeseveral	 provisions  to	 safeguard  the	 interests  of	 thetenants.  Let us consider some of these provisions.  Section6 which we have already set out prescribes the maximum	rentpayable	 by a tenant, and provides for the reduction of	 thesaid  maximum by reference to particular areas.	  Section  7lays down that the rent payable by tenants shall, subject tothe  maximum  rate  fixed under s. 6,  be  the	rent  agreedbetween	 the parties, or in the absence of any agreement  orusage,	 or  where  there  is  a  dispute  as  regards	 thereasonableness	 of  the  rent	payable	 according  to	 theagreement  or usage, the reasonable rent.  It is thus  clearthat  even  in regard to an agreed rent or a rent  fixed  byusage, if a tenant raises a dispute about its reasonablenessthat  dispute has to be settled in the manner prescribed  bythe  Act  and  the amount  of  reasonable  rent	 determined.Section	 8 provides for commutation of crop-share rent	intocash.	Section 9 prohibits a landlord from  receiving	fromhis tenant any rent in terms of service or349labour;	 and it requires him to apply to the  Mamlatdar	 forcommuting  such	 rent into cash.  Section  10  provides	 forrefund	of  excess rent recovered by the landlord  from	 histenant.	  Section 11 prohibits the recovery by the  landlordof  any	 cess,	rate, vero, huk or tax	or  service  of	 anydescription from the tenant other than the rent lawfully duefrom such land.	 Section 12 provides for enquiries in regardto the fixation of reasonable rent.  On an application	madeby  the tenant or the landlord in that behalf the  Mamlatdarhas  to determine the reasonable rent under s. 12(3)  havingregard	to  the factors specified in the  said	sub-section.These  factors are (a) the rental values of lands  used	 forsimilar	 purposes  in  the  locality,  (b)  the	 profits  ofagriculture of similar lands in the locality, (c) the pricesof   crops  and	 commodities  in  the  locality,   (d)	 theimprovements made in the land by the landlord or the tenant,(e)  the assessment payable in respect of the land, and	 (f)such other factors as may be prescribed.  There is no  doubtthat  the last clause which refers to other factors must  beconstrued as referring to factors ejusdem generis with thosethat  have been previously enumerated.	Section 13  providesfor the suspension or remission of rent, and the  conditionsunder which the said remission or suspension can be granted.It  would thus be seen that the material provisions  of	 theAct  aim  at  giving relief to the  tenants  by	 fixing	 themaximum	 rent payable by them and by providing for a  speedymachinery   to	 consider   their   complaints	 about	 theunreasonableness  of  the rent claimed from  them  by  theirrespective landlords.  It is in the light of this policy  ofthe Act which is writ large on the face of these  provisionsthat  we  have to consider the question as  to	whether	 thedelegation  made  by s. 6(2) suffers from the  infirmity  ofexcessive delegation.Broadly stated s. 6(2) seeks to provide for the fixation  ofa  lower  rate of maximum rent area-wise.  We  have  alreadyseen  that individual tenants are given the right  to  applyfor  the fixation of reasonable rent by s. 12, and  specificfactors	 have  been  specified	which  the  Mamlatdar	mustconsider  in  fixing  a reasonable  rent.   The	 Legislaturerealised that a large number of350tenants	 in the State were poor, ignorant and in many  caseshelpless,  and it was thought that many of them may  not  beable  to make individual applications for the fixation of  areasonable  rent  under s. 12.	That is why it	was  thoughtnecessary to confer upon the Provincial Government the powerto  fix a lower rate of the maximum rent payable by  tenantsin  respect of	particular areas.  In a sense what could  bedone by the Mamlatdar in individual cases can be achieved bythe  Provincial Government in respect of a large  number  ofcases  covered	in a particular area.  If that	be  so,	 thelegislative  policy  having been clearly  expressed  in	 therelevant   provisions  and  the	 factors   for	 determiningreasonable  rent also having been specified in s. 12(3),  itis  difficult  to accept the argument  that  the  ProvincialGovernment  has been given uncanalised or unfettered  powersby  s. 6(2) to do what it likes without any  guidance.	 Therelevant factors having been specified by s. 12(3) when	 theProvincial  Government	considers the question of  fixing  alower  rate  of the maximum rent payable in  any  particulararea  it is expected to adopt a basis which is	suitable  tothat   particular   area.   The	  relevant   conditions	  ofagriculture would not be uniform in different areas and	 theproblem	 of  fixing a reduced maximum rent  payable  in	 therespective  areas would have to be tackled in the  light  ofthe  special features and conditions of that area ; that  iswhy  a	certain	 amount of latitude had to be  left  to	 theGovernment  in fixing the lower rate of the maximum rent  inthe respective areas, and that is intended to be achieved bygiving	it  liberty  to adopt a basis  which  it  thinks  issuitable for the area in question.  The word " suitable " inthe context must mean I suitable to the area' having  regardto  the other provisions of the Act such as s. 6(1)  and  s.12.   It  is true that the power to fix	 a  reasonable	rentconferred  on  the Mamlatdar under s. 12 is subject  to	 thepower  of the Provincial Government under s. 6(2).  Even  sowe  think  it would be difficult to hold  that	the  factorsprescribed  for the guidance of the Mamlatdar would have  norelevance at all when the Provincial Government acts under			    351s.   6(2).  In our opinion, therefore, having regard to	 thelegislative policy laid down by the Act in its preamble	 andin  the other relevant sections to which we  have  referred,and  having regard to the guidance which has  been  providedfor fixing a reasonable rent under s. 12(3), it would not bepossible to hold that the power delegated to the  ProvincialGovernment  by	s.  6(2)  suffers  from	 the  infirmity	  ofexcessive  delegation  The  fact that no  minimum  has	beenprescribed would not materially affect this position.Mr. Limaye has then contended that even if s. 6(2) is  validthe  impugned  notification is invalid	because	 it  offendsagainst	 Art. 31 of the Constitution.  He concedes that	 theAct  itself is saved under Art. 31B since it is one  of	 theActs  enumerated in the Ninth Schedule; but his argument  isthat   the  notification  has  in  substance   amended	 theprovisions  of	s.  6(1)  and thus it  amounts	to  a  freshlegislation  to which Art. 31B cannot apply.  There  is	 no,substance  in this argument.  If s. 6(2) is valid  then	 theexercise  of the power validly conferred on  the  ProvincialGovernment  cannot  be treated as  fresh  legislation  whichoffends against Art. 31.  If the Act is saved by Art. 31B s.6(2) is also saved, and the power must be held to be validlyconferred  on the Provincial Government, and a	notificationissued by virtue of the said powers cannot be challenged  onthe ground that it violates Art. 31.The  next  argument  is that  the  notification	 is  invalidbecause	 the power to issue a notification conferred  by  s.6(2)  was  exhausted as soon as the  Government	 issued	 thefirst notification on June 23, 1949.  This argument proceedson the assumption that the power conferred on the Governmentby  s.	6(2)  can be exercised only once, and  it  seeks  toderive	support from the fact that the words " from time  totime  " which were used in the corresponding section of	 theearlier tenancy legislation in the State have not been	usedin  s. 6(2).  Reliance is also placed on the fact  that	 thesaid  words  have  been used in s. 8(1)	 of  the  Act.	 Theomission  of the said words from s. 6(2) as contrasted	withtheir inclusion in s. 8(1), says Mr. Limaye, indicates	thatthe power delegated under s. 6(2) was352intended to be used only once.	This argument is fallacious.Why  the  Legislature did not use the words " from  time  totime " in s. 6(2) when it used them in s.    8(1)   it	  isdifficult to understand ; but in Construing s.	  6(2) it isobviously necessary to apply the provisions of s. 14 of	 theBombay	General	 Clauses Act 1904 (1 of 1904).	 Section  14provides  that	where  by  any Bombay  Act  made  after	 thecommencement  of  this	Act any power is  conferred  on	 anyGovernment  then that power may be exercised from.  time  totime as occasion requires.  Quite clearly if s. 6(2) is readin  the light of s. 14 of the Bombay General Clauses Act  itmust  follow that the power to issue a notification  can  beexercised  from	 time to time as occasion requires.   It  istrue  that  s.	14 of the General Clauses Act,	1897  (X  of1897),	provides  that where any power is conferred  by	 anyCentral Act or Regulation then, unless a different intentionappears,  that power may be exercised from time to  time  asoccasion  requires.  Since there is a specific provision  ofthe  Bombay General Clauses Act relevant on the point it  isunnecessary to take recourse to s. 14 of the Central GeneralClauses	 Act ; but even if we were to assume that the  powerin  question  can be exercised from time to  time  unless  adifferent  intention appears we would feel no difficulty  inholding	 that no such different intention can be  attributedto  the Legislature when it enacted s. 6(2).  It is  obviousthat  having  prescribed  for  a maximum.  by  s.  6(1)	 theLegislature has deliberately provided for a modification  ofthe  said  maximum  rent  and that  itself  shows  that	 thefixation  of any maximum rent was not treated as  immutable.If it was necessary to issue one notification under s.	6(2)it   would   follow  by	 force	of  the	 same	logic	thatcircumstances	may   require  the  issue   of	 a   furthernotification.	The  fixation of agricultural  rent  dependsupon  so many uncertain factors which may vary from time  totime  and  from	 place to place that it	 would	be  idle  tocontend that the Legislature wanted to fix the maximum	onlyonce,  or,  as Mr. Limaye concedes,  twice.   Therefore	 theargument  that	the power to issue a notification  has	beenexhausted cannot be sustained.			    353The  last  argument which Mr. Limaye  faintly  attempted  toplace  before  us was that the expression "  any  particulararea"  would  not be applicable to the areas  in  which	 theappellants'  lands are situated because, according  to	him,the expression should be construed in the light of the	sameexpression  used in s. 298(2)(a) of the Government of  IndiaAct,  1935.   This argument is far fetched and	fatuous	 andneed not  be considered.In the result the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.SUBBARAO  J.-I	have  had  the	advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment   prepared  by	 Gajendragadkar,  J.  I	 regret	  myinability  to agree with my learned brother on the  questionof  the	 vires	of  s.	6(2)  of  the  Bombay  Tenancy	 andAgricultural  Lands Act, 1948 (LXVII of	 1948)	(hereinaftercalled the Act).The  facts  have  been fully stated in the  judgment  of  mylearned brother and I need not restate them here.  It  wouldbe enough if I expressed my opinion on the said question.Learned	  counsel  for	the  appellants	 attacks  the	con-stitutional validity of s. 6(2) on the ground that the	saidsubsection  exceeds  the  limits  of  permissible  delegatedlegislation.  Before considering the validity of s. 6(2), itwould  be convenient to notice briefly the relevant  aspectsof the law of the doctrine of delegated legislation.The  scope of the doctrine of delegation of legislation	 hasbeen so authoritatively laid down by this Court in more thanone  decision  that  it	 would be  pedantic  to	 attempt  toresurvey  the  field  over again.  I  would,  therefore,  becontent to collate the relevant passages from the  decisionsof  this-Court	to ascertain the  principle  underlying	 thedoctrine.The leading decision on this subject is In re The Delhi LawsAct, 1912 (1).	There the Central Legislature had  empoweredthe  executive	authority under its legislative	 control  toapply  at its discretion the laws to an area which was	alsounder  the legislative sway of the Centre.  The validity  ofthe laws was questioned(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 747.354on the ground that the legislature bad no power to  delegatelegislative  powers  to executive authorities.	As  many  asseven  Judges  dealt  with  the	 question  and	wrote  sevenseparate  judgments  considering elaborately  the  differentaspects	 of the question raised.  I am relieved of the	dutyto ascertain the core of the decision as that has been	doneby  Bose,  J.,	with  clarity  in  Rajnarain  Singh  v.	 TheChairman, Patna Administration Committee, Patna (1).   Bose,J., after pointing out the seven variations of the authoritygiven  to  the	executive in the Delhi Laws  Act  Case	(2),summarized  the majority view on the relevant aspect of	 thequestion now raised at p. 301 thus:"  In our opinion, the majority view was that  an  executiveauthority  can	be authorised to modify either	existing  orfuture laws but not in any essential feature.  Exactly	whatconstitutes  an	 essential feature cannot be  enunciated  ingeneral	 terms, and there was some divergence of view  aboutthis  in  the former case, but this much is clear  from	 theopinions  set  out  above: it cannot  include  a  change  ofpolicy."Rajnarain  Singh's Case (1) dealt with s. 3(1) of the  PatnaAdministration	Act, 1915, (Bihar and Orissa Act 1 of  1915)as  amended  by Patna Administration (Amendment)  Act,	1928(Bihar	and Orissa Act IV of 1928) and with  a	notificationissued	by the Governor of Bihar picking out s. 194  out  ofthe Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act of 1922, modifying it andextending   it	 in   its  modified  form   to	 the   PatnaAdministration	and  Patna Village areas.  Bose,  J.,  afterpointing  out the difference between Rajnarain Singh's	Case(1) and the Delhi Laws Act Case (2) observed at p. 303 thus:"  But	even  as the modification of  the  whole  cannot  bepermitted  to effect any essential change in the Act  or  analteration  in its policy, so also a modification of a	partcannot be permitted to do that either."This Court again in Harishankar Bagla v. The State of MadhyaPradesh (3) considered the scope of the Delhi Laws Act	Case(2).  Mahajan, C. J., stated at p. 388 thus.(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 290.       (2) [1951] S.C.R. 747.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380.			    355" It was settled by the majority judgment in the Delhi	LawsAct Case (1) that essential powers of legislation cannot  bedelegated.  In other words, the legislature cannot  delegateits function of laying down legislative policy in respect ofa  measure  and its formulation as a rule of  conduct.	 TheLegislature must declare the policy of the law and the legalprinciples  which  are to control any given cases  and	mustprovide	 a  standard to guide the officials or the  body  inpower  to  execute  the	 law.	The  essential	 legislativefunction  consists  in the determination or  choice  of	 thelegislative policy and of formally enacting that policy intoa binding rule of conduct."In The Edward Mills Co., Ltd., Beawar v. The State of  Ajmer(2),  Mukherjea, J., as he then was, speaking for the  Courtstated the principle thus at p. 749:"  A  Legislature  cannot  certainly  strip  itself  of	 itsessential  functions  and  vest the same  on  an  extraneousauthority.   The  primary  duty	 of law	 making	 has  to  bedischarged  by the Legislature itself but delegation may  beresorted to as a subsidiary or an ancillary measure."The  latest  decision  on  the	point  is  that	 in  HamdardDawakhana  v.  Union  of India (3).  One  of  the  questionsraised	in that case was whether s. 3(d) of Drugs and  MagicRemedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954,  exceededthe  permissible  limits  of  delegated	 legislation.	 Theprinciple has been restated by Kapur, J., at p. 566 thus: ,"This means that the legislature having laid down the  broadprinciples  of its policy in the legislation can then  leavethe details to be supplied by the administrative  authority.In  other  words  by  delegated	 legislation  the   delegatecompletes  the legislation by supplying details	 within	 thelimits	prescribed  by	the  statute  and  in  the  case  ofconditional   legislation  the	power  of   legislation	  isexercised  by the legislature conditionally leaving  to	 thediscretion of an external(1) [1951] S.C.R. 747.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 735.(3)  [1960] 2 S.C.R. 671.46356authority  the time and manner of carrying  its	 legislationinto  effect as also the determination of the area to  whichit is to extend."Applying  the  principle  to the facts	of  that  case,	 thelearned Judge observed at p. 568 thus:" In our view the words impugned are vague. ;Parliament	 hasestablished no criteria, no standards and has not prescribedany principle on which a particular disease or condition  isto  be	specified in the Schedule.  It is  not	stated	whatfacts or circumstances are to be taken into consideration toinclude	 a  particular condition or disease.  The  power  ofspecifying diseases and conditions as given in s. 3(d)	musttherefore be held to be going beyond permissible  boundariesof valid delegation.It  is	not  necessary	to multiply  decisions;	 nor  is  itnecessary  to  point  out  the	subtle	distinction  betweendelegates legislation and conditional legislation.  The	 lawon the subject may be briefly stated thus: The	Constitutionconfers	 a  power and imposes a duty on the  legislature  tomake  laws.   The  essential  legislative  function  is	 thedetermination of the legislative policy and its	 formulationas  a  rule of conduct.	 Obviously it  cannot  abdicate	 itsfunctions  in  favour  of  another.   But  in  view  of	 themultifarious  activities  of  a	 welfare  State,  it  cannotpresumably  work  out all the details to  suit	the  varyingaspects	 of  a	complex	 situation.   It  must	 necessarilydelegate the working out of details to the executive or	 anyother  agency.	 But there is a danger inherent	 in  such  aprocess	 of delegation.	 An overburdened legislature or	 onecontrolled  by a powerful executive may unduly overstep	 thelimits	of  delegation.	 It may not lay down any  policy  atall;  it may declare its policy in vague and general  terms;it  may	 not set down any standard for the guidance  of	 theexecutive; it may confer an arbitrary power on the executiveto  change  or modify the' policy laid down  by	 it  withoutreserving   for	  itself  any	control	  over	 subordinatelegislation.   This self effacement of legislative power  infavour	of  another  agency either in whole or	in  part  isbeyond	the permissible limits of delegation.  It is  for  aCourt to hold on a fair, generous357and liberal construction of an impugned statute whether	 thelegislature  exceeded  such limits.  But  the  said  liberalconstruction  should  not be carried by the  Courts  to	 theextent	of  always trying to discover a	 dormant  or  latentlegislative  policy to sustain an arbitrary power  conferredon  executive authorities.  It is the duty of this Court  tostrike	down  without any' hesitation  any  arbitrary  powerconferred on the executive by the legislature.Bearing	 the aforesaid principles in mind, I shall  look  atthe provisions of the Act to ascertain whether s. 6(2) is inconformity  with the law laid down by this Court.   I  shallfor  the  present  ignore s. 6(2) and  briefly	and  broadlynotice	the scheme of the Act.	The preamble shows that	 theobject	of  the Act was mainly to improve the  economic	 andsocial	conditions  of peasants and to ensure the  full	 andefficient  use of land for agriculture.	 It  also  indicatesthat the Act was not intended to be a confiscatory one,	 butwas  enacted to regulate the relationship between  land-lordand  tenant, particularly in respect of rent payable by	 thetenant	to  the land-lord.  In s. 6(1)	the  legislature  inclear  terms  fixes the maximum rent payable  by  a  tenant,having	regard	to the nature of the land: in  the  case  ofirrigated land it fixes one-fourth and in the case of  otherland  one-third	 of the crop of such land or  its  value  asdetermined  in	the prescribed manner as the  maximum  rent.The  rest  of  the Act is to be worked out  subject  to	 themaximum	 rent  fixed under s. 6(1).  Section 7	enables	 theland-lord  and	tenant	to  agree upon	the  rate  of  rent.Section 8 gives power to the Provincial Government to  issuenotifications  providing for the commutation of the rent  inkind into cash rent.  It also, if no rate of commutation hasbeen so fixed by the State Government, enables the Mamlatdarto  fix the amount of commutation in the manner	 prescribed.Sub-section (3) of s. 6 prohibits a landlord from recoveringany  rent by way of crop-share or in excess of the  commutedcash rent.  Section 9 compels the land-lord to apply to	 theMamlatdar,  if	the  land-lord is receiving  rent  from	 anytenant	in  terms of service or labour, for  commuting	suchrent into358cash.	 Section  10  makes  the  landlord  liable  to	 paycompensation to the tenant if he contravenes the  provisionsof ss. 6, 7, 8 or 9. Section 11 prohibits the land-lord fromcollecting  any cesses other than the rent lawfully  payablein  respect of the land.  Section 12 enables the  tenant  toapply  to the Mamlatdar for the fixation of reasonable	rentin  respect of the land in his possession and s. 12(3)	laysdown   the   factors  the  Mamlatdar  has   to	 take	intoconsideration in fixing a reasonable rent.  After fixing therent,  the Mamlatdar makes an order for Payment of the	rentto the land-lord and the rent so fixed shall hold good for aperiod	of  five  years.   There is  also  a  provision	 forreduction  of rent, if during the said period on account  ofdeterioration  of the land by floods or other causes  beyondthe  control  of  the tenant the land  has  been  wholly  orpartially  rendered  unfit  for	 cultivation.	Section	  13enjoins	 on  the  land-lord to suspend	or  remit  the	rentpayable by the tenant to him if the payment of land  revenueby him to the Government is suspended or remitted.  A  rightof appeal is provided against the order of the Mamlatdar  tothe  Collector.	 Shortly stated, this Act provides  for	 thefixation  of  maximum rent by the Government,  a  reasonablerent  by Mamlatdar and an agreed rent by the  parties.	 Butboth  the agreed rent and the reasonable rent cannot  exceedthe   maximum  rent.   There  are  express  provisions	 forreduction or remission of rent in appropriate circumstances.The  Act does not provide for an appeal or revision  to	 theGovernment and the Government has, therefore, no say in	 thematter of fixation of reasonable rent.	The whole scheme  ofthe  Act, therefore, excluding s. 6(2), is a  self-containedand integrated one.  The legislature fixes the maximum	rentlinked	with crop having regard to the nature of  the  land,and the other provisions enable the appropriate	 authoritiesto fix reasonable rent subject to that maximum.Now let us see the impact of s. 6(2) on this scheme. Section6(2) reads :"  The	Provincial Government may, by  notification  in	 theOfficial Gazette, fix a lower rate of the359maximum rent payable by the tenants of lands situate in	 anyparticular  area or may fix such rate on any other  suitablebasis as it thinks fit."Under this section the Provincial Government may fix a lowerrate  of the maximum in any particular area or to  fix	suchrate  on any other suitable basis.  Three elastic words	 areused in s. 6(2), namely, (1) lower rate; (2) particular area;  and (3) on any other suitable basis.	 Prima facie  in  s.6(2)  the  legislature has not laid down any policy  or	 anystandard  to enable the Provincial Government to reduce	 themaximum rent fixed under s. 6(1).  What is the limit of	 thelower rate the Government is empowered to fix ? What is	 theextent of the area with reference to which that rate can  befixed?	 What are the conditions prevailing in a  particulararea which require the reduction of the maximum rent ?	Evenif  there  are conditions justifiable for reduction  of	 themaximum	 rent,	what is the basis for that reduction  ?	 Thedisjunctive  "	or " between " particular area " and  "	 mayfix"  and  the word ,other" qualifying "  suitable  basis  "indicate  that	the situation of 'the land in  a  particulararea  may  also	 be a basis for fixing a  lower	 rent.	 Thesituation  of a land in a particular area cannot  in  itselfafford a basis for fixing a specified rate of maximum  rent.The words " suitable basis " in the alternative clause is sovague that in effect and substance they confer absolute	 andarbitrary discretion on the Provincial Government.  What  isthe standard of suitability ? The standard of suitability isonly  what the Government thinks suitable.  In this  sectionthe  legislature in clearest terms abdicated  its  essentialfunctions  in  favour  of the  executive  authority  withoutlaying	down  any standard for its guidance.  In  effect  itpermitted  the Government to amend s. 6(1) of the  Act.	  Toillustrate,  the legislature fixes the maximum rent  payableby  a  tenant  to his landlord at  X;  the  Mamlatdar  afterenquiry fixes Y as reasonable rent which is less than X; theGovernment in exercise of the power conferred under s.	6(2)can arbitrarily fix Z which is far less than the  reasonablerent; with the result that the entire scheme360promulgated by the legislature breaks.	The Government	alsomay  select  any small area containing a few  landlords	 andreduce the maximum rent to the lowest level with the  resultthe Act can be worked out as an expropriatory measure  whichis  contrary to the intention of the  legislature.   Learnedcounsel for the respondents realising that arbitrariness  iswrit  large on the face of s. 6(2) attempted to	 evolve	 thelegislative  formula  from the preamble to s.  6(1)  and  s.12(3)  of  the	Act.  I cannot find any	 indication  of	 thelegislative  policy in the manner of fixation of  the  lowerrate  of maximum rent in the preamble.	Nor can	 I  discoverany  such  in  s.  6(1).   Section  6(1)  contains  a  clearlegislative  policy  in fixing the maximum rent	 on  certainidentifiable  basis.  The legislature says in effect  in  s.6(2),  "  I  have  fixed the  maximum  rent  in	 respect  ofirrigated  lands and other lands on the basis of a  definiteshare  of  the crop of such lands, but you can	reduce	thatmaximum	 rent  on  any	basis you  like	 ".  While  s.	6(1)overrides  other  provisions of the Act, s.  6(2)  derogatesfrom  s.  6(1)	itself	Section 6(2)  is  capable  of  beingexercised in such a way that the object of s. 6(1) is itselffrustrated.   Section 6(1) in effect is made subject  to  s.6(2).Now  coming  to s. 12(3), it is contended that	the  factorsmentioned  in s. 12(3) afford a standard for the  Governmentfor  fixing  the maximum rent.	To put	it  differently	 thesuitable  basis is one or other of the factors in s.  12(3).The  Act does not say so, either expressly or  by  necessaryimplication.   The criteria for fixing rent in s. 13 are  toafford	a  guide to Mamlatdar for  fixing  reasonable  rent.Indeed the sub-clause is subject to s. 6 indicating  therebythat  the  maximum rent fixed by the Government is  not	 thesame as the reasonable rent.  Indeed if the reasonable	rentdetermined on the basis of all or some of the factors in  s.12(3) is more than the maximum rent fixed by the  Governmenton  a suitable basis, the latter prevails over	the  former.As the maximum rent supersedes reasonable rent, the  factorsgoverning  reasonable rent need not necessarily	 govern	 thefixation of maximum rent.  To attempt to read the factors ins. 12(3) into361s.   6(2)  is,	in  my view, not  permissible.	 On  a	fairreading of the provisions of the Act, I find it not possibleto  discover  any standard laid down by the  legislature  toenable the Provincial Government to fix a lower rate of	 themaximum	 rent.	The section conferring such arbitrary  poweron  the	 Provincial  Government	 without  laying  down	 anylegislative standard is in excess of the permissible  limitsof delegation.The  learned Additional Solicitor-General broadly  contendedthat the policy of the legislature is to prevent rackrentingand to fix a reasonable rent and, therefore, any exercise ofthe  power under s. 6(2) is guided by that policy.  This  isan   extreme  contention  and,	if  accepted,  will   enableParliament and legislatures to confer absolute and  unguidedpowers	on the executive.  If a legislature can	 legally  bepermitted  to lay down a broad policy in general  terms	 andconfer	arbitrary  powers on the executive for	carrying  itout,  there  will be an end of the doctrine of the  rule  oflaw.  If the contention be correct., the legislature in	 thepresent	 case  could have stated in the preamble  that	theywere  making the law for fixing the maximum rent  and  couldhave  conferred an absolute power on the Government  to	 fixsuitable  rents having regard to the circumstances  of	eachcase.	Such  a	 law cannot obviously be  valid.   When	 thedecisions  say	that  the legislature  shall  lay  down	 thelegislative policy and its formulation as a rule of conduct,they  do not mean vague and general declaration	 of  policy,but a definite policy controlling and regulating the  powersconferred on the executive for carrying into effect thatpolicy.I  must,  therefore, hold that s. 6(2) of the  Act  is	voidinasmuch   as	it  exceeded  the  permissible	 limits	  oflegislative  delegation.  In  the  result  the	appeals	 areallowed with costs.BY COURT: In view of the majority judgment, the appeals	 aredismissed with costs.		   _____________________362