PETITIONER:PRADYAT KUMAR BOSE	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE HON'BLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF CALCUTTA HIGH COURT.DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/12/1955BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BOSE, VIVIANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR  285		  1955 SCR  (2)1331ACT:    Calcutta  High Court-Letters Patent 1865 as	 amended  in1919--Clause  8 read with clause 4--Chief Justice--Power  ofappointment--Whether includes power of dismissal--Delegationof  enquiry  into  charges  by	Chief  Justice	to   anotherJudge--Competency  thereof--Power to appoint or	 dismiss  anofficer--Whether  on  administrative power Dismissal  of  anofficial  by  Chief Justice--Whether prior  consultation  ofpublic service Commission necessary--Constitution of  India,Arts. 229, 313, 320(3) and 367(1)--General Clauses Act, 1897(Act X of 1897), s. 16.HEADNOTE: The  appellant	 was appointed in March 1948  by  the  ChiefJustice	 of  the  Calcutta  High  Court	 as  Registrar	 andAccountant-General  of the High Court on its  original	sideand  confirmed therein in November 1948.  He  was  dismissedfrom  that post with effect from 1st September 1951  by	 theChief Justice by his order dated 3rd September 1951.   Therewere  various charges against the appellant and Mr.  JusticeDas  Gupta  was	 deputed by the Chief  Justice	to  make  anenquiry	 and submit a report.  Mr. Justice Das Gupta made  afull  enquiry and submitted a report in which he  exoneratedthe  appellant in respect of some of the charges  but  foundhim guilty in respect of other charges.	 His conclusion	 wasthat  the  appellant must be held guilty of  misconduct	 anddishonest  conduct and that he was unfit to hold the  officeof  Registrar  of  the Original Side of	 the  Calcutta	HighCourt.	 The  Chief Justice issued notice to  the  appellantintimating  that he agreed with the report and asked him  toshow  cause  why he should not be dismissed from  his  post.After  be  was	given  an opportunity  to  show	 cause,	 theappellant was dismissed by an order of the Chief Justice.  The	appellant's  petition  to  the	Governor   for	 thecancellation of the above order was dismissed.	Subsequentlyhis application for review to the Chief Justice of the priororder of dismissal and a writ petition under Art. 226 of theConstitution  filed  in	 the High Court in  respect  of	 hisdismissal  were	 also dismissed one after  the	other.	 Theappellant  obtained  leave to appeal to the  Supreme  Court.The three main points for consideration by the Supreme Courtwere:1.   Whether the Chief Justice of the High Court had nopower to dismiss the appellant;2.   Even if the Chief Justice had such power whether becould  not delegate the enquiry into the charges to  anotherJudge but should have made the enquiry himself; and16813323.   Whether  the  order of dismissal by the  Chief  Justicecould  have been passed without previous  consultation	withthe  Public Services Commission as provided by Art.  320  ofthe Constitution.   Held (1) that the Chief Justice was competent to  dismissthe  appellant because both by virtue of the  provisions  ofclause	8 of the Letters Patent of the Calcutta	 High  Courtread with clause 4 of the same as well as Arts. 229(1),	 313and  367(1)  of	 the Constitution read with  s.	 16  of	 theGeneral	 Clauses Act, the power of appointment includes	 thepower of dismissal;(2)  the  objection  to	 the validity of  dismissal  on	 theground	that  the  delegation  of  enquiry  amounted  to   adelegation  of	power  is  without  substance  because	 theexercise  of power to appoint or dismiss an officer  is	 theexercise  not of a judicial power but of  an  administrativepower  and it is well settled that a  statutory	 functionaryexercising such a power cannot be said to have delegated hisfunction  merely  because he has deputed a  responsible	 andcompetent official to enquire and report; and(3)  it was not necessary to have the previous	consultationwith the Public Service Commission for the dismissal of	 theappellant  by the Chief Justice because Art. 320(3)  of	 theConstitution taken as a whole is inconsistent with Art.	 229of the Constitution and also because the language thereof isnot applicable to the High Court Staff.North-West  Frontier Province v. Suraj Narain Anand  ([1948]L.R.  75 I.A. 343), Barnard v. National Dock  Labour  Board,([1953]	 2 Q.B. 18, 40), Board of Education v. Bice  ([1911]A.C.  179),  and Local Government Board v.  Arlidge  ([1915]A.C. 120), referred to.JUDGMENT:  CIVIL	 APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 245	 and202 of 1953.Appeal	under  Article 132(1) of the Constitution  of  Indiafrom  the judgment and order dated the 27th January 1953  ofthe Calcutta High Court in Matter No. 139 of 1952.  Ranadeb Chaudhry, Anil Kumar Das Gupta and Sukumar  Ghose,for the appellant.    S.M.  Bose, Advocate-General,' for West Bengal (B.	 Senand P. K. Bose, with him) for the respondent.  1955.	  December  23.	  The  Judgment	 of  the  Court	 wasdelivered by  JAGANNADHADAS	 J.-This is an appeal by leave of  the	HighCourt of Calcutta under article 132(1) of the  Constitution.The appellant before us was the1333Registrar  and	Accountant-General  of	the  High  Court  atCalcutta on its Original Side.	He was appointed to the postby  the	 Chief Justice of the High Court on the	 4th  March,1948  and confirmed therein on the 15th of  November,  1948.He  was	 dismissed  therefrom  with  effect  from  the	 1stSeptember, 1951, by an order of the Chief Justice dated	 the3rd September, 1951.  There were various charges against himand Mr. Justice Das Gupta was deputed by order of the  ChiefJustice	 dated the 28th May, 1651, to make an'	enquiry	 andsubmit a report.  Mr. Justice Das Gupta made a full  enquiryand submitted his report on the 11th August, 1951, in  whichhe  exonerated	the  appellant in respect  of  some  of	 thecharges	 but  found  him  guilty in  respect  of  the  othercharges.   The	learned Judge expressed	 his  conclusion  asfollows:"Mr.   Bose  (the appellant) must be held to  be  guilty  ofmisconduct  and dishonest conduct and (that) he is unfit  tohold  the office of Registrar of the Original Side  of	thisCourt".  The Chief Justice issued to the appellant a notice on	 the16th August, 1951, intimating that be agreed with the reportafter  careful consideration thereof and asking him to	showcause  why  he should Dot be dismissed from his	 post.	 Theappellant  was given a hearing by the Chief Justice  on	 the31st August, 1951.  The order dated the 3rd September, 1951,of  the	 Chief	Justice dismissing the	appellant  from	 hisoffice, a copy of which was served on him, runs as follows:  "A full and thorough enquiry was held by Mr. Justice K. C.Das  Gupta into the charges made against Sri P. K. Bose	 theRegistrar  of  the Original Side of this Court.	 Sri  P.  K.Bose   was   represented  by  eminent  Counsel	 and   everyopportunity  was  given to him to meet the charges  and	 putforward	 his  explanation and defence.	 The  learned  Judgehowever in a full and very carefully considered report foundSri  P.	 K. Bose guilty of serious charges  involving  moralturpitude and dishonesty and further -he was of opinion thatSri P. K. Bose was by reason thereof unfit to hold the	saidoffice of Registrar.  I considered this report and the evidence most1334anxiously  and	found myself in entire	agreement  with	 thelearned	 Judge.	  Sri P. K. Bose was, in  my  view,  clearlyguilty of the matter comprised in the charges specified	 by'Mr. Justice K. C. Das Gupta.  I considered that prima  faciethe  conduct  of Sri P. K. Bose warranted  dismissal  and  Itherefore  gave	 him  notice under  article  311(2)  of	 theConstitution  of  India	 to show cause	against	 the  actionproposed against him, namely, dismissal.   On  the  31st august, 1951, Sri P.K.	 Bose  showed  causebefore	me and I heard Sri Sachin Chaudhuri his counsel	 andSri P. K. Bose personally.  In all the circumstances this isnot  a case in which I can properly show any leniency.	 SriP.  K. Bose has abused the trust and confidence	 reposed  inhim  and has been found guilty of serious  malpractices	 anddishonesty.   Conduct  such  as this of an  officer  of	 thestatus	of the Registrar of the Original Side of this  Courtis  unpardonable and must be dealt with severely.  I  there-fore dismiss Sri P. K. Bose from his office as Registrar  ofthe Original Side of the Court, the dismissal to take effectfrom the 1st September, 1951.Let a copy of this order be served on Sri P. K. Bose".  On  the  25th	 January, 1952, the  appellant	submitted  apetition to the Governor of West Bengal for cancellation  ofthe above order.  He received intimation dated the 9th July,1952,  that  the  "Governor declines  to  interfere  on	 hisbehalf".   Thereupon  he filed an application to  the  ChiefJustice for review of the prior order of dismissal.  It	 maybe  mentioned that it was Chief Justice, Sir  Arthur  TrevorHarries,  who  had  initiated the  proceedings	against	 theappellant and passed the order of dismissal.  He retired  inJune,  1952.   The application for review was  made  to	 thesuccessor Chief Justice, Shri P. B. Chakravarti, on the 11thSeptember, 1952.  This application was rejected on the	16thSeptember,  1952.   Thereafter on the 24th  November,  1952,i.e., more than an year after the order of dismissal, a writapplication was filed on the Original Side of the High Courtunder article 226 of the Constitution against the Hon'ble1335the Chief Justice of the High Court "for calling upon him tobring  up  the records of the proceedings  relating  to	 hisdismissal  in order that justice may be done by quashing  orotherwise  dealing  with the said proceedings and  the	saidorder dated the 3rd September, 1951, purporting to terminatehis  services  and for directions being given to  the  ChiefJustice	 to  desist from giving effect to or acting  in	 anymanner	under the said order".	On the presentation  of	 theapplication  the  learned Judge on the	Original  Side,	 Mr.Justice	 Bose, issued a rule nisi calling upon	the  Hon'blethe  Chief Justice to show cause why an order in the  natureof  a writ as asked for should not be made.  This order	 wasduly  served  and on its return the learned  Judge  made  anorder referring the hearing of the application to a  SpecialBench  of  three  Judges  as per the  rules  of	 the  Court.Accordingly  the petition was, under the directions  of	 theChief  Justice,	 heard by three learned Judges of  the	HighCourt, who after elaborate hearing and consideration of	 thepoints	urged  on  behalf of  the  appellant  dismissed	 theapplication.   Leave to appeal to this Court  was,  however,granted by them under article 132(1) on the ground that	 thecase  involves	substantial  questions of  law	relating  tointerpretation of the Constitution.The main points that have been urged by the appellant beforeus, as before the High Court, are that-(1)the	Chief Justice of the High Court had no	power  underthe law to dismiss him;(2)even	 if  he	 had the power, he could  not  delegate	 theenquiry	 into the charges, to another Judge but should	haveenquired into the same himself; and(3)in  any case the order of dismissal could not  have	beenpassed	in  the absence of previous  consultation  with	 thePublic	Service	 Commission of the State as  provided  underarticle	  320  of  the	Constitution.	On  behalf  of	 therespondent, i.e., the Hon'ble the Chief Justice of the	HighCourt  at  Calcutta, the learned  Advocate-General  of	WestBengal has1336appeared  before  us.	In  addition  to  controverting	 thecorrectness of the above contentions raised on behalf of theappellant, he strongly urged that-(1)no  writ could issue from the High Court against its	 ownChief Justice;(2)the order of the Chief Justice, the validity of which  isbeing  challenged, is a purely administrative order  againstwhich no application for writ is maintainable; and(3)this	 was  not a case in which having regard to  all	 thecircumstances, any application by way of a writ should	havebeen entertained.The  points  urged on behalf of the appellant may  first  betaken  up.   The  most	important out of  them	is  the	 onerelating  to the authority of the Chief Justice to pass	 theorder of dismissal as against the appellant.It is beyond dispute that the Chief Justice is the authorityfor  appointing	 the appellant.	 It was in  fact  the  ChiefJustice who appointed the appellant and confirmed him.	 Butit  is strongly urged that he had not the power to  dismiss.This argument is based on the assumption that the  appellantfalls  within  the  category  of  public  servants  who	 aregoverned by the Civil Services (Classification, Control	 andAppeal)	 Rules,	 (hereinafter  referred	 to  as	 the   CivilServices  Rules)  of the year 1930 as amended from  time  totime  and  that	 the said rules continue  to  apply,  to  anofficer	 holding  the  post which he  did,  even  after	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935, and later the Constitution ofIndia of 1950 successively came into force.  I the  argumentrecognises  the fact that dismissal is a matter which  fallswithin conditions of service of a public servant as held  bythe  Privy Council in North-West Frontier Province v.  SurajNarain Anand(1) and that the power of making rules  relatingto conditions of service of the staff of the High Courts  isvested	in  the	 Chief Justice of the  Court  under  section242(4)	taken  with section 241 of the Government  of  IndiaAct, 1935, as also under article 229(2) of the	Constitutionof India, 1950.	 But (1) [1948] L.R. 75 I.A. 843.1337it is said that no such rules have been framed by the  ChiefJustice, and that therefore by virtue of section 276 of	 theGovernment  of	India  Act, 1935, and  article	313  of	 theConstitution, the Civil Services Rules continued to apply tohim,  It  is necessary to examine the correctness  of  theseassumptions.The  Civil  Services Rules were framed by the  Secretary  ofState  in Council under powers vested in him by section	 96-B(2)  of  the Government of India Act, 1915, as	 amended  in1919.	These rules were framed on the 19th June, 1930,	 andpublished on the 21st June, 1930.  It is desirable thereforeto  consider the position relating to the staff of the	HighCourts	before that date.  It is not disputed that the	saidposition  was  governed by the Letters Patent  of  the	HighCourt.	Clause 8 of the Letters Patent of 1865 as amended in1919,  which  continues to be operative, as  also  clause  4thereof, are relevant for the present purpose.	They are  asfollows:"8. We do hereby authorize and empower the Chief Justice  ofthe said High Court of Judicature at Fort William in Bengal,from  time to time, as occasion may require, and subject  toany  rules and restrictions which may be prescribed  by	 theGovernor-General  in  Council, to appoint so many  and	suchclerks	and  other ministerial officers as  shall  be  foundnecessary  for	the administration of justice, and  the	 dueexecution  of  all the powers and  authorities	granted	 andcommitted  to  the  said High Court  by	 these	Our  LettersPatent.	  And it is Our further will and pleasure and We  dohereby for Us, Our heirs and successors give grant,  direct,and  appoint, that all and every the officers and clerks  tobe   appointed	 as  aforesaid	shall	have   and   receiverespectively  such reasonable salaries as the Chief  Justiceshall, from time to time, appoint for each office and  placerespectively,  and as the Governor-General in Council  shallapprove	 of.   Provided	 always,  and it  is  Our  will	 andpleasure,  that all and every the officers and clerks to  beappointed  as aforesaid shall be resident within the  limitsof the jurisdiction of the said Court, so long as they shallhold their respective offices; but1338this proviso shall not interfere with or prejudice the rightof any officer or clerk to avail himself of leave of absenceunder  any  rules  prescribed  by  the	Governor-General  inCouncil,  and to absent himself from the said limits  duringthe term of such leave, in accordance with the said rules"."4.  We do hereby appoint and ordain, that every  clerk	 andministerial officer of the said High Court of Judicature  atFort  William  in Bengal, appointed by virtue  of  the	saidLetters Patent of the Fourteenth of May, One thousand  eighthundred and sixty-two, shall continue to hold and enjoy	 hisoffice	and employment, with the salary	 thereunto  annexed,until he be removed from such office and employment; and  heshall be subject to the like power of removal,	regulations,and provisions if he were appointed by virtue ofthese Letters Patent".It  will be noticed that clause 8 specifically vests in	 theChief Justice the power of appointment, but makes no mentionof  the	 power	of  removal  or	 of  making  regulations  orprovisions.   But  it is obvious from the  last	 portion  ofclause	4  that such power was taken to	 be  implicit  underclause	8  and	presumably  as arising	from  the  power  ofappointment. It may be mentioned that under clause 10 of the Charter  ofthe Supreme Court of Calcutta issued in 1774, the said Courtalso  was in specific terms "authorized and  empowered	fromtime  to time, as occasion may require, to appoint  so	manyand  such clerks and other ministerial officers as shall  befound  necessary  for the administration of  justice".	 Thepower  of removal or of taking other disciplinary action  asregards such appointees was not in terms granted.  But thereis historical evidence to show that the power of appointmentconferred  under  the  Charter	was  always  understood	  ascomprising  the	 above powers.	Sir Charles Wood,  the	thenSecretary of State for India in paragraph 10 of his dispatchto  the Governor-General dated the 17th May, 1862,  (on	 theformation of the new High Courts) stated as follows:"The   Supreme	 Court	exercises  an	authority   entirelyindependent of the Government in respect of1339its ministerial officers".It  is	this power and authority along with  other  judicialpower and authority that was succeeded to by the High Courts(on their formation in supersession of the Supreme and SadarCourts)	 by  virtue of section 9 of the Indian	High  CourtsAct, in the following terms."Each  of  the High Courts to be established under  the	 Actshall  have and exercise  all jurisdiction and	every  powerand authority whatsoever in any manner vested in any of	 theCourts	................ abolished under this Act  ........"Thus it is clear that both under the Charter of the  SupremeCourt as well as under the Letters Patent of the High Court,the  power  of	appointment  was  throughout  understood  asvesting in the High Court or the Chief Justice, the completeadministrative	and  disciplinary control  over	 its  staff,including the power of dismissal.There can be no doubt that this position continued at  leastuntil  the Government of India Act, 1915.  Now, section	 106of the Government of India Act, 1915, in terms continued theabove  by providing that the jurisdiction of the High  Courtwould  "include	 all such powers and authority over  and  inrelation to the administration of justice including power toappoint	 clerks and other ministerial officers of the  Courtas  are vested in them by Letters Patent".  It follows	thatthe  position  continued  to  be the  same  even  under	 theGovernment of India Act, 1915, at any rate up to 1930,	whenthe  Civil  Services  Rules came into  operation.   All	 thepowers	under the Letters Patent were, however,	 subject  toalteration  by competent legislative authority by virtue  ofclause	44 of the Letters Patent.  Clause 8 of	the  LettersPatent itself provided that the power of appointment of	 theChief  Justice was to be "subject to rules and	restrictionswhich may be prescribed by the Governor-General in Council".Now, the Civil Services Rules were made by the Secretary  ofState  in  Council under section 96-B of the  Government  ofIndia  Act,  1915.   It is the case of	the  appellant	thatthough the1691340Civil  Services	 Rules framed by virtue of  delegated  powerunder  the  Act	 could not override the	 specific  power  ofappointment vested in the Chief Justice by virtue of section106 thereof, they would override the alleged implications ofthat power such as the power of dismissal and power to framerules  relating to conditions of service in so far  as	theyare  specifically  provided  for under	the  Civil  ServicesRules.	 It  is	 further  urged	 that  the  said   situationcontinues  up  to  date	 by virtue of  section	276  of	 theGovernment  of	India  Act,  1935 and  article	313  of	 theConstitution,  Now,  the  appellant  is	 a  person  who	 wasappointed in 1948 and dismissed in 1951.  It is,  therefore,desirable  in  the first instance to examine  the  situationunder  the  Government	of India Act,  1935  and  under	 theConstitution  of  1950	on the	assumption  that  the  CivilServices  Rules made a change in the prior situation so	 faras  the	 High Court staff is concerned and  applied  theretobetween 1930 and 1935.Under  the  Government	of India  Act,	1935,  the  positionrelating  to  the Civil Services of the Crown  in  India  iscontained in a number of general provisions in Chapter 11 ofPart  X	 thereof Section 240(1) reiterates  what  was  firststatutorily declared by	 section 96-B of the 1915 Act, viz.,that  except as expressly provided by the Act every,  personwho is a member of a civil service of the Crown in India, orholds any civil post under the Crown in India, holds  officeduring His Majesty's pleasure.	Section 241 provides for therecruitment  and conditions of service of such	persons	 andprescribes   the  various  authorities	who  can  make	 theappointments  and frame the rules relating to conditions  ofservice.   Section 242(4), in so far as it is  relevant	 forthe  present  purpose,	provides that  section	241  in	 itsapplication to appointments to and to persons serving on thestaff  attached to a High Court shall have effect as if,  inthe case of a High Court, for any reference to the  Governorin  paragraph (b) of section (1), in paragraph (a)  of	sub-section (2) and in sub-section (5), there was substituted  areference  to  the Chief Justice of the Court.	 Making	 thenecessary substitutions as prescribed1341above,	the statutory provisions in the Government of  IndiaAct, 1935, relating to recruitment and conditions of serviceof the staff of the High Court may be read as follows:"(1)   Appointments to the Civil Services  and	civil  postsunder  the Crown in India in relation to the staff  attachedto the High Court shall be made by the Chief Justice or suchperson as he may direct.(2)The	conditions  of	service	 of  persons  serving.	 HisMajesty in relation to the staff attached to the High  Courtshall  be made by the Chief Justice of the High Court or  bysome  person or persons authorised by him to make the  rulesfor the purpose.Provided that-(a)the	Governor may in his discretion require that in	suchcases  as  he  may in his discretion direct  no	 person	 notalready	 attached  to the court shall be  appointed  to	 anyoffice connected with the Court save after consultation withthe Provincial Public Service Commission;(b)rules  made	under  sub-section (2) by  a  Chief  Justiceshall,, so far as they relate to salaries, allowances, leaveor pensions, require the approval of the Governor". These	sections,  while  keeping intact the  power  of	 ap-pointment of the members of the staff of the High Court withthe  Chief  Justice  as contained  in  the  Letters  Patent,provide, statutorily for the first time and in express termswhat  was implicit in clause 8 of the Letters Patent,  viz.,that  the  power  to regulate and frame	 rules	relating  toconditions of service governing such staff is also vested inthe  Chief  Justice  subject  however  to  two	 limitationsindicated   by	 the   provisos	  mentioned   above.	 Thecorresponding	provisions  in	the   present	Constitutionrelating  to the powers of the Chief Justice in relation  tothe  recruitment and service conditions of the staff of	 theHigh Court are almost identical and are contained in article229.  They are as follows:"229.  (1) Appointments of officers and servants of  a	HighCourt shall be made by the Chief Justice of1342the Court or such other Judge or officer of the Court as  hemay direct:Provided  that the Governor of the State in which  the	HighCourt  has  its principal seat may by rule require  that  insuch  cases  as may be specified in the rule no	 person	 notalready	 attached  to the Court shall be  appointed  to	 anyoffice connected with the Court save after consultation withthe State Public Service Commission.(2)Subject  to	the  provisions	 of  any  law  made  by	 theLegislature  of	 the  State, the conditions  of	 service  ofofficers  and servants of a High Court shall be such as	 maybe  prescribed	by rules made by the Chief  Justice  of	 theCourt  or  by  some  other Judge or  officer  of  the  Courtauthorised  by	the  Chief Justice to  make  rules  for	 thepurpose:Provided  that the rules made under this clause,  shall,  sofar  as	 they  relate  to  salaries,  allowances,  leave  orpensions, require the approval of the Governor of the  Statein which the Court has its principal seat".  It  does  not appear from the record that any	 rules	havebeen  made by the Chief Justice of the Calcutta High  Court,at  any	 rate, in so far as they may be	 applicable  to	 theRegistrar  of the Original Side of the High Court.   On	 theassumption, therefore, that the Civil Services Rules appliedto  the	 case of a person in his position between  1930	 and1935,  it has got to be seen whether they continue to be  soapplicable.   The  relevant provisions in  this	 behalf	 aresection	 276  of  the Government of  India  Act,  1935,	 andarticle 313 of the Constitution.  They are as follows:  "Section  276:  Until other provision is  made  under	 theappropriate  provisions of this Part of this Act, any  rulesmade under the Government of India Act relating to the CivilServices of, or civil-posts under, the Crown in India  whichwere  in force immediately before the commencement  of	PartIII  of this Act, shall, notwithstanding the repeal of	thatAct,  continue in force so far as consistent with this	Act,and  shall be deemed to be rules made under the	 appropriateprovisions of this Act".1343"Article  313: Until other provision is made in this  behalfunder  this Constitution, all the laws in force	 immediatelybefore the commencement of this Constitution and  applicableto  any public service or any post which continues to  existafter the commencement of this Constitution, as an all Indiaservice	 or  as service or post under the Union or  a  Stateshall continue in force so far as consistent with the provi-sions of this Constitution".  Now,	it  has to be observed that the	 continuance,  undersection	 276  of the Government of India Act, 1935,  of	 theCivil  Services	 Rules,	 could only be in  so  far  as	suchcontinuance may be consistent with the new Act.	 Further  intheir application to the High Court staff, the rules are  tobe deemed to be rules made under the appropriate  provisionsof  the	 Act.  The rules, therefore, must be  deemed  to  berules made by the Chief Justice consistently with the schemeand  the  provisions of the Act relating to the	 High  Courtstaff	which  specifically  vest  in  him  the	 powers	  ofappointment  and of the regulation of conditions of  serviceincluding   the	 power	of  dismissal.	 Such	continuance,therefore,  can	 only  operate by a  process  of  adaptationimplicitly Authorised by the very terms of section 276.	  Itwould  follow  that, in their continued application  to	 theHigh  Court  staff, the word "Governor" has to	be  read  assubstituted  by the word "Chief Justice" wherever  necessaryin  the same way as section 242(4) of the Act  requires	 theprovisions of section 241 to be read as though any referenceto the Governor therein is substituted by a reference to theChief Justice of the High Court.  The continued	 applicationof  the Civil Services Rules without such  adaptation  wouldresult in the anomalous position, that although the 1935 Actspecifically  vests  in	 the  Chief  Justice  the  power  ofappointment  and of framing rules regulating  conditions  ofservice	 including the power of dismissal and hence  therebyindicates  the	Chief Justice as the  authority	 having	 thepower  to  exercise  disciplinary control, be  has  no	suchdisciplinary  control  merely because he did not  choose  tomake  any  fresh rules and was content	with  the  continuedappli-1344cation of the old rules.  Now, the relevant provision in theCivil  Services Rules which deals with	disciplinary  actionincluding  dismissal  is rule 52 thereof.  That	 rule  showsthat "the Governor-General in Council or Local Government ofa  Governor's  Province	 may impose  any  of  the  penaltiesspecified  in  rule  49 (which includes	 dismissal)  on	 anyperson	included in any of the classes I to 5  specified  inrule  14 who is serving under the administrative control  ofthe Governor-General in Council or the Local Government,  asthe  case may be".  This rule, if it originally	 applied  tothe   High  Court  staff,  must	 after	1935  be   read	  bysubstituting  "Chief  Justice" in the place  of	 "the  LocalGovernment"  wherever  it occurs therein  and  making  otherconsequential alterations.  Thus read, there can be no doubtthat  as  from the commencement of the Government  of  IndiaAct,  1935, the power of dismissal of a member of  the	HighCourt  staff  including,  a person in the  position  of	 theappellant, -Would vest in the Chief Justice.  This would  beso  even apart from the normal implication of the  power  ofappointment  specifically  recognised  under  the  Act.	  Itfollows	 that  even on the assumption  that  Civil  ServicesRules applied between 1930 and 1935 to the High Court  stafftheir	continuance  after  1935  makes	 a  change  in	 thedismissing authority and the power of dismissal is vested inthe Chief Justice.  That being the correct position prior to1950,  the Constitution has made no change in  this  respectand  article  313 would also continue rule 52 of  the  CivilServices  Rules	 as  above adapted.   It  would,  therefore,follow	that, at any rate, from the time of passing  of	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935, as also under the  Constitu-tion,  the  power of dismissal vests in	 the  Chief  Justicenotwithstanding	 that  no specific rules have been  made  inthis behalf by the Chief Justice.It  must  be mentioned, at this stage, that so	far  as	 thepower  of  dismissal is concerned, the	position  under	 theConstitution  of 1950 is not open to any argument or  doubt.Article 229(1) which in terms vests the power of appointmentin the Chief Justice is equally effective to vest in him thepower of dis-1345missal.	 This results from section 16 of the General ClausesAct  which by virtue of article 367(1) of  the	Constitutionapplies	 to  the construction of the word  "appointment"  inarticle	 229(1).   Section  16 of the  General	Clauses	 Actclearly	 provides that the power of  "appointment"  includesthe power "to suspend or dismiss". In  view  of  the clear conclusion we have  arrived  at  asabove,	we  do not consider it necessary to  deal  with	 thearguments   addressed  to  us  on  both	 sides	as  to	 theapplicability  or otherwise of the Civil Services  Rules  tothe High Court staff, including a person in the position  ofthe appellant, and we express no opinion thereon.  The	maincontention, therefore, of the appellant as to the competencyof the Chief Justice to pass the order of dismissal  againsthim fails.The  further  subordinate objections that have	been  raisedremain to be considered.  The first objection that has	beenurged  is  that even if the Chief Justice had the  power  todismiss, he was not, in exercise of that power, competent todelegate  to another Judge the enquiry into the charges	 butshould	have  made  the enquiry	 himself.   This  contentionproceeds  on a misapprehension of the nature of	 the  power.As  pointed out in Barnard v. National Dock Labour  Board(1)at  page  40,  it is true that	"no  judicial  tribunal	 candelegate  its  functions  unless  it is	 enabled  to  do  soexpressly or by necessary implication".	 But the exercise ofthe  power to appoint or dismiss an officer is the  exercisenot of a judicial power but of an administrative power.	  Itis nonetheless so, by reason of the fact that an opportunityto  show cause and an enquiry simulating judicial  standardshave  to precede the exercise thereof It is  well-recognisedthat a statutory functionary exercising such a power  cannotbe said to have delegated his functions merely by deputing aresponsible  and competent official to enquire	and  report.That is the ordinary mode of exercise of any  administrativepower.	 What  cannot  be delegated  except  where  the	 lawspecifically so provides-is the ultimate responsibility	 forthe exercise (1) [1953] 2 Q.B. 18, 40.1846of  such  power.  As pointed out by the House  of  Lords  inBoard  of  Education v. Rice(1), a functionary	who  has  todecide	an administrative matter, of the nature involved  inthis case, can obtain the material on which he is to act  insuch manner as may be feasible and convenient, provided onlythe  affected  party "has a fair opportunity to	 correct  orcontradict  any	 relevant  and	prejudicial  material".	 Thefollowing  passage  from the speech of	Lord  Chancellor  inLocal  Government Board V. Arlidge (2) is apposite  and	 in-structive."My  Lords,  I	concur in this view of the  position  of  anadministrative	body to which the decision of a question  indispute	 between parties has been entrusted. The  result  ofits  enquiry must, as I have said, be taken, in the  absenceof directions in the statute to the contrary, to be intendedto be reached by its ordinary procedure.  In the case of theLocal  Government  Board it is not doubtful what  this	pro-cedure	is.   The  Minister  at the head  of  the  Board  isdirectly responsible to Parliament like other Ministers.  Heis responsible not only for what he himself does but for allthat  is  done	in  his	 department.   The  volume  of	workentrusted  to him is very great and he cannot do  the  greatbulk of it himself.  He is expected to obtain his  materialsvicariously through his officials, and he has discharged hisduty  if  he sees that they obtain these materials  for	 himproperly.   To	try to extend his duty beyond  this  and  toinsist	that  he and other members of the  Board  should  doeverything  personally	would be to impair  his	 efficiency.Unlike	a Judge in a Court he is not only at liberty but  iscompelled to rely on the assistance of his staff". In  view  of  the  above clear statement  of  the  law	 theobjection  to  the validity of the dismissal on	 the  groundthat the delegation of the enquiry amounts to the delegationof  the	 power itself is without any substance and  must  berejected.The second objection that has been taken is that even if thepower  of  dismissal  is vested in the	Chief  Justice,	 theappellant was entitled to the protection(1) [1911] A.C. 179, 182.(2) [1915] A.C. 120,133.1347of article 320(3)(c) of the Constitution.  It is urged	thatthe dismissal in the absence of consultation with the PublicService	 Commission of the State was invalid.  There can  beno  doubt  that	 members of the staff  in  other  Governmentdepartments of the Union or the State are normally  entitledto  the	 protection of the three  constitutional  safeguardsprovided in articles 311(1), 311(2) and 320(3) (c).  Article320(3) (e) so far as it is relevant for the present purpose,runs as follows:"The  Union  Public Service Commission or the  State  PublicService	 Commission, as the case may be, shall be  consultedon all disciplinary matters affecting a person serving underthe  Government of India or the Government of a State  in  acivil capacity, including memorials or petitions relating tosuch matters".  The  phrase "all disciplinary matters affecting a  person"is  sufficiently  comprehensive	 to  include  any  kind	  ofdisciplinary  action  proposed to be taken in respect  of  aparticular   person.	The  question	for   consideration,therefore,  is whether a person belonging to the staff of  aHigh  Court  is within the scope of the	 phrase	 (Ca  personserving under the Government of India or the Government of aState in a civil capacity".  The learned Judges of the	HighCourt  were of the opinion that article 320(3) can  have  noapplication  to	 the  present  case.   In  their  view	 theprovisions of article 320(3) would be inconsistent with	 thepower  vested  in the Chief Justice of a  High	Court  underarticle 229, as regards the appointment of officers and ser-vants of a High Court and hence also of dismissal or removaland  as regards the framing of rules prescribing  conditionsof  service of such officers or servants.  They	 also  pointout  that  the	proviso	 to  article  229(1)  indicates	 therequirement that the State Public Service Commission  shouldbe consulted only in respect of the specific cases of futureappointments  and that too if the Governor of the  State  sorequires  by rule.  They take this and the fact	 that  underthe Constitution the provisions relating to High Court staffare  taken  out	 of Part XIV relating to  the  services,  asimply-1701348ing, that in the exercise of the powers vested in the  ChiefJustice	 under	article	 229, consultation  with  the  StatePublic	Service	 Commission in respect of any  other  mattermust be taken to have been excluded.  This reasoning is	 notwithout force.	Undoubtedly there is much to be said for theview  that article 320(3) taken as a whole  is	inconsistentwith  article  229.   But  it  is  possible  to	 treat	 therequirement  of prior consultation under article 320(3)	 (c)which  relates	to disciplinary	 action	 against  individualGovernment  employees  and  which is in	 the  nature  of  animportant constitutional safeguard for individual governmentemployees  as standing on a somewhat different footing	fromthat  under  article  320(3) (a) or  (b),  which  relate  togeneral matters relating to recruitments, appointments, etc.Prior consultation in respect of individual cases may not beconsidered necessarily inconsistent with the actual exerciseof the overriding power of the Chief Justice in such  cases.While, therefore, recognising the force of the view taken bythe  High  Court,  it  appears	desirable  to  consider	 therequirement  under  article 320(3)(c) taken by	itself	withreference  to  the  actual terms thereof,  in  view  of	 theimportance  of this provision as a constitutional  safeguardin cases to which it applies.  A  scrutiny of the provisions in Chapter I of Part XIV  ofthe  Constitution  relating to the services shows  that	 thevarious	 articles in this Chapter designate the services  towhich  the  articles  relate by a  variety  of	terminology.Under  article	309, the appropriate Legislature  is  vestedwith  the  power to regulate recruitment and  conditions  ofservice	 "of persons appointed to public services and  postsin  connection	with  the affairs of the  Union	 or  of	 anyState".	 Under article 310 "every person who is a member  ofa civil service of the Union or holds any civil, post  undera  State" holds office during the pleasure of the  Presidentor, as the case may be, of the Governor or of the Rajpramukhof  the	 State.	 Under article 311  the	 two  constitutionalsafeguards, viz., (1) of not being liable to be dismissed orremoved	 or  reduced  in  rank until he	 has  been  given  areasonable opportunity1349of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken  inregard	to him, and (2) of not being liable to be  dismissedor removed by ail authority subordinate to that by which  hewas appointed, are available to "a person who is a member ofa  civil  service of the Union or of a civil  service  of  aState,	or holds a civil post under the Union or  a  State".Under  article	320(3)(c) however, the requirement  of	con-sultation with the appropriate Public Service Commission  ondisciplinary matters is available to "a person serving underthe  Government of India or the Government of a State  in  acivil  capacity".   A close scrutiny of the  terminology  soused shows a marked departure in the language of article 320(3)  (c)  from that in articles 310 and 311.   Officers	 andmembers	 of the staff attached to a High Court clearly	fallwithin the scope of the phrase "persons appointed to  publicservices  and  posts in connection with the affairs  of	 theState" and also of the phrase "a person who is a member of acivil  service of a State" as used in articles 3lO and	311.The  salaries  of these persons are paid out  of  the  Statefunds as appears from article 229(3) which provides that theadministrative	expenses  of  a	 High  Court  including	 allsalaries,  allowances and pensions payable to or in  respectof  officers and servants of the High Court, are  chargeableupon the Consolidated Fund of a State.	The item relating tosuch administrative expenses has to form part of the  annualfinancial statement to be presented to the State LegislativeAssembly  under article 202 and estimates thereof  can	formthe  subject  matter of the discussion	in  the	 Legislatureunder  article 203(1).	They must, therefore, be  taken	 "tohold  posts in connection with the affairs of the State	 andto  be members of the civil service of the State".  But	 canit be said that members of the High Court staff are "personsserving under the Government of a State in a civil capacity"which is the phrase used in article 320(3) (c).	 The use  ofdifferent terminology in the various articles was not likelyto  have  been accidental.  It is to be	 noticed  that	evenarticle	 320 in its various clauses uses different  phrases.Article 320(1) refers to "appoint-1350ments  to the services of the Union and the services of	 theState" and the proviso to article 320(3) refers to "servicesand posts in connection with the affairs of the Union and toservices  and  posts in connection with the affairs  of	 theState".	  It appears, therefore, not unlikely that in  usingsomewhat   different  phraseology,  the	 intention  was	  todemarcate the staff of the High Courts from the other  civilservices   of the Union or the State.  The  phrase  "personsserving under the Government of India or the Government of aState" seems to have reference to such persons in respect ofwhom the administrative control is vested in the  respectiveexecutive  Governments	functioning  in	 the  name  of	 thePresident  or  of  the Governor or  of	a  Rajpramukh.	 Theofficers and staff of the High Court cannot be said to	fallwithin	the scope of the above phrase because in respect  ofthem  the  administrative control is clearly vested  in	 theChief Justice, who under the Constitution, has the power  ofappointment  and  removal and of making rules for  the	con-ditions	 of services.  Articles 53, 77, 154 and 166  of	 theConstitution  show  that while the executive  power  of	 theUnion or the State is vested, respectively, in the Presidentor the Governor and that executive action is to be taken  intheir  respective  names, such action is the action  of	 theGovernment  of India or the Government of a State.  But	 theadministrative	action of the Chief Justice is	outside	 thescope of these articles.  It appears therefore that in usingthe  phrase "Government of India and Government of a  State"in  article  320(3) (c), the Constitution had  in  view	 theabove  mentioned  demarcation.	A close	 comparison  of	 theterminology  used  in the corresponding	 provisions  of	 theGovernment  of India Act of 1935 also seems to confirm	thisdemarcation.   Section	290 (1) of the said  Act  refers  to"every	person	who is a member of a civil  service  of	 theCrown  in India or holds any civil post under the  Crown  inIndia" while section 266(3)(c) relates to "a person  servingHis Majesty in a civil capacity in India".  A perusal of themain  paragraph	 of sub-section (3) of section	266  clearlyshows that it has reference to three cate-1351gories	of  services (1) Secretary of States  services,	 (2)Federal	  services  under  the	Governor-General,  and	 (3)Provincial  Services under the Governor.  In the context  ofthis section, the comprehensive phrase "serving His Majesty"seems  to have been used as comprising only the above  threeservices  and should be exclusive of the staff of  the	HighCourt.	 The fact that different phrases have been  used  inthe relevant sections of the Government of India Act and theConstitution,,, relating to the constitutional safeguards inthis   behalf	appears	 to  be	 meant	to   emphasise	 thedifferentiation of the services of the High Court from otherservices,  and	to  place the matter  beyond  any  doubt  asregards the non-applicability thereto of this constitutionalprotection.  It may be noticed that while the constitutionalsafeguards  under article 311 are available to every  personin the civil service, the safeguard in article 320(3)(c)  isone capable of being taken away by regulations to be made bythe President or Governor.  The Constitution itself appears,therefore,  to	have classed this safeguard on	a  differentfooting.   This may well have been intended not to apply  tothe High Courts.  Therefore both on the ground that  article320(3)(c)  would be contrary to the implication	 of  article229  and  on  the ground that the language  thereof  is	 notapplicable  to the High Court staff, we are of	the  opinionthat  for  the	dismissal of the  appellant  by	 the  -ChiefJustice,   prior  consultation	with  the   Public   ServiceCommission was not necessary.  We accordingly hold that	 theappellant  was not entitled to the protection under  article320(3)(c).   It follows that none of the  three	 contentionsraised on behalf of the appellant, i.e., (1) as to the powerof  the	 Chief	Justice	 to  dismiss  him,  (2)	 as  to	 hiscompetence to delegate the enquiry to Mr. Justice Das Gupta,and  (3)  as to his obligation to consult the  State  PublicService	  Commission,	have   been   substantiated.	Thisapplication must accordingly fail on the merits.  This	would be enough to dispose of the case	against	 theappellant.   The learned Judges of the High Court have	alsodealt at some length with the question as1352to  the	 maintainability of an application for a writ  in  acase  of this kind and of the availability of any remedy  byway  of	 a  writ against the action of	the  Chief  Justice,whether	 administrative	 or  judicial.	 Arguments  in	thisbehalf	have  also  been strongly urged	 before	 us  by	 thelearned	 Advocate-General  of  West Bengal.   In  the  view,however,  that	we have taken as to the	 contentions  raisedbefore us regarding the validity of the order of  dismissal,we  do	not feel called upon to enter  into  the  discussionrelating  to  the availability of the writ.  We	 express  noopinion	 on  the  questions  so	 raised.   We  consider	 it,however, desirable to say that our view that the exercise ofpower  of  dismissal of a civil servant is the	exercise  ofadministrative	power  may  not	 necessarily  preclude	 theavailability of remedy under article 226 of the Constitutionin  an	appropriate case.  That is a question  on  which  weexpress no opinion one way or the other in this case.In the result the appeal must be dismissed with costs. Along with this appeal, the appellant filed an	 applicationto this Court for leave under article 136 to appeal  againstthe   orders  dated  the  3rd  September,  1951,  and	16thSeptember,  1952, dismissing him from service and  decliningto review it.  In view of our judgment just delivered,	thatapplication must also be rejected.