PETITIONER:DESHRAJ	Vs.RESPONDENT:AKHTAR HUSSAINDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/09/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASWANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1961 AIR  148		  1961 SCR  (1) 665ACT:Rent,  fixation	 of-Suit  flied under  ordinance  after	 duenotice Ordinance replaced by Act--Plaint returned-Fresh suitfiled-Whether	fresh  notice  necessary-United	  State	  ofGwalior,  Indore  and Malwa  (Madhya  Bharat)  AccommodationControl Act, Samvat 2006 (M.  B. 15 of 1950) s. 7(2).HEADNOTE:The appellant, after due notice to the respondent, had fileda  suit	 for fixation of rent under the	 provisions  of	 theAccommodation  Control	Ordinance  Madhya  Bharat.   In	 themeantime  the Accommodation Control Act (M.  P. 15 of  1950)came  into force and the plaint filed by the  appellant	 wasreturned.   The	 appellant without serving a  second  noticefiled a fresh suit under the Act,, which was decreed.The respondent contended that a suit could not be institutedunder the Act without a fresh notice, because of s. 7(2)  ofthe Act.Held, that s. 7(2) of the Accommodation Control Act (M.	  P.15  of 1950) contemplates that a notice should be given	 butthere  are no words in the section which made it  obligatorythat  the notice should be issued in terms as under the	 Actand be given after the Act came into force.  In the  instantcase  it cannot be said that the notice which was  given  bythe appellant was not a proper notice.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 24 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  31, 1954, of the former Madhya Bharat High  Court  inCivil Revision No. 183 of 1952.I.   M.	 Lal  and  A. G.  Ratnaparkhi,	for  the  appellant.Rameshwar Nath and S. N. Andley, for the respondent.1960.	September  12.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byKAPUR J.-This is an appeal against the judgment and order ofthe High Court of Madhya Bharat at Gwalior and arises out ofproceedings  between a landlord and his tenant	taken  underthe Accommodation666Control	 Act  (XV of 1950) which, for the sake	of  brevity,will be termed the Act.On  March  14,1948, the appellant took two houses  in  Morarfrom the respondent at a monthly rental of Rs. 80 plus othercharges at Rs. 5 per month.On  October  20,  1948, the appellant brought  a  suit	for-fixation  of rent in the court of the Cantonment  Magistrateat  Morar  under  the provisions  of  Accommodation  ControlOrdinance  (Ordinance XX of 2004-S.). The Act was passed  onJanuary 25, 1950, and came into force on February 10,  1950.Because of the passing of the Act the plaint was returned onMarch  20,  1950, for want of  jurisdiction.   Thereupon  onApril 28, 1950, the appellant filed the suit before the RentController out of which this appeal has arisen.	 In the suithe prayed for the fixation of fair rent at Rs. 20 per month.The respondent pleaded inter alia that the suit could not beinstituted before the Rent Controller and that the suit	 wasincompetent  because no notice under s. 7(2) of the Act	 hadbeen given.Both the pleas of the respondent were overruled and the RentController  held  that the notice which	 the  appellant	 hadgiven  prior  to  the institution of the first	suit  was  aproper	notice	and he decreed the suit and fixed  the	fairrent at Rs. 483 per annum.  The respondent took an appeal tothe  District  Judge  who  upheld  the	order  of  the	RentController  but	 the question of notice under s. 7  was	 notraised in that court.  The respondent then filed a  RevisionPetition in the High Court under s. 115 of the Code of CivilProcedure and under Art. 227 of the Constitution.  The	HighCourt held that notice under s. 7 was a condition  precedentto  the institution of the suit; that as no such notice	 wasgiven  the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to  make	 theorder.	 The High Court also held that the  Rent  Controllerhad passed a decree which operated retrospectively from	 thedate of the execution of the lease deed which the Controllerhad  no authority to decree.  It was further held  that	 theoriginal suit was properly instituted in the civil court andthe passing of the Act did not take away the jurisdiction ofthat  court  and therefore the civil court should  not	havereturned the plaint of the appellant.			    667The principal question for decision is whether a suit  couldbe  instituted without a fresh notice because of s. 7(2)  ofthe Act ? That section provides:"Where	no rent for any such accommodation has	been  agreedupon or where the landlord wishes to enhance, or the  tenantwishes	to reduce the rent agreed upon, the landlord or	 thetenant,	 as the case may be, by giving notice in writing  tothe  other  party shall proceed for having  the	 rent  fixedunder subsection (4)All  that this section contemplates is that a notice  shouldbe given.  There are no words which make it obligatory	thatthe notice should be issued in terms as under the Act and begiven  after the Act came into force nor has  it  prescribedany  particular	 form.	The trial court held that  a  propernotice had been given and therefore s. 7 was applicable.  Nosuch  question	was  raised in appeal  before  the  DistrictJudge'	and  therefore	it was not  adjudicated	 upon.	 Thequestion  however was raised before the High Court.  In	 ouropinion it cannot be said that the notice which was given bythe  appellant was not a proper notice nor does the  sectionmean, as contended by the respondent, that the notice had tobe given as under and after the Act came into force.  As  wehave said above it is significant that this point was  nevertaken before the District Judge.Lastly	the High Court held that the plaint should not	havebeen  returned	by  the civil court  because  the  suit	 forfixation of fair rent related also to a period prior to	 theAct.  Fairly construed the order of the Rent Controller doesnot  operate retrospectively from the date of the  beginningof  the lease but appears to us to be prospective and  afterthe  coming into operation of the Act the  jurisdiction	 wasvested	in the Rent Controller and not in the  civil  court.This point therefore has no substance.In  the result this appeal is allowed and the  judgment	 andorder of the High Court are set aside and that of the  trialcourt	restored.   The	 appellant  will  have	 his   coststhroughout.Appeal allowed.668