PETITIONER:CHANDRANATH MUKHERJEE	Vs.RESPONDENT:TUSHARIKA DEBI AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/03/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERSUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  521		  1959 SCR  226ACT:       Permanent  Tenure--Right of successor to recover arrears	 of       rent  by	 suit-Notice of succession to landlord	within	six       months,	if mandatory-Mutation in landlord's rent  roll-Mode       of Proof Bengal Tenancy Act (Act VIII of 1885) as amended by       Bengal Act IV of	 1928, ss. 15, 16.HEADNOTE:The time limit of six months provided by s. 5 of the  BengalTenancy Act within which a tenure-holder has to give  noticeof  his succession to the landlord or have his name  mutatedin his rent-roll is not mandatory but directory in characterand the only effect which non-observance of that  time-limitcan  have under s. 16 of the Act, is to postpone his  remedyto  recover  arrears of rent by way of suit till  such	timewhen he performs the duty cast upon him by s. 5 Of the	Act,but  it	 cannot, by itself, bar the remedy for all  time  tocome.  Section 16 is a penal provision and must be subjectedto  its	 statutory  limitation and the	penalty	 it  imposescannot be extended by implication.Consequently,  in a case where the sepatnidar  resisted	 thedurpatnidars'  suit for recovery of arrears of rent  on	 theground, inter alia, that they had not got themselves mutatedin the landlord's records under s. 15 of the Bengal  TenancyAct and as such227the  suit was barred under s. 16 of the Act and	 the  courtsbelow found on the evidence adduced by the durpatnidars thatthe  landlord  had  accepted rents  from  them	and  grantedreceipts after ordering mutation of their names in the rent-roll:Held, that the courts below were right in holding in  favourof the durpatnidars that there was the necessary mutation inthe landlord's rent-roll.The  factum of mutation in the landlord's rent-roll  can  beproved	not only by the production of original rent-roll  orits   certified	 copy  but,failing  these,  also  by   othersecondary proof of mutation.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 39 of 1955.Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated August 28,  1953,of  the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from  Original  DecreeNo. 97 of 1950 arising out of the judgment and decree  datedApril  27, 1950, of the Court of Second Sub-Judge of  ZillahHooghly in Rent Suit No. 3 of 1949.B.   Bagchi and P. K. Chosh, for the appellant.N.   C. Chatterjee and D. N. Mukherjee, for the respondents.1958.	March 24.  The following Judgment of the  Court	 Wasdelivered bySINHA	J.-The	main  controversy  in  this  appeal   on   acertificate  granted by the High Court of Calcutta,  againstthe concurrent decisions of the courts below, centers  roundthe  true interpretation and effect of ss. 15 and 16 of	 theBengal Tenancy Act-Act VIII of 1885-(hereinafter referred toas  the Act).  The courts below have  substantially  decreedthe  plaintiff 's suit for arrears of rent in respect  of  ase-patni tenure.  Hence, the appeal by the defendant.The  plaintiffs	 ancestor, Nirmal Chandra Benerjee,  -was  adurpatnidar  under the patnidar in respect of the tenure  inquestion.   He died leaving him surviving, his	three  sons-Satya  Ranjan,	Satya Jiban and Satya Kiron-who	 became	 thedurpatindars  in  respect of the tenure by  succession,	 andthere  is  no  dispute	that they were	so  mutated  in	 thesuperior  landlord's  office.  There was  a  partition	suitbetween them in the court of the228subordinate  judge  at Alipur, being Title Suit No.  128  of1946.  -During	the  pendency of that  suit,  Promode  KumarBanerjee  was  appointed Receiver of  the  properties  underpartition.   Satya  Jiban died during the  pendency  of	 thepartition suit.	 The exact date of his death does not appearin the record.	His heirs are: his widow Tusharika Debi	 andhis  two sons, Uptal Kumar Banerjee who is of unsound  mind,and Ujjal Kumar Banerjee, a minor.  The Receiver  aforesaid,instituted  the	 suit out of which this appeal	arises,	 forarrears of rent, against the first defendant, now appellant,in respect of the years 1352 to 1355 B. S. He put the  totalclaim  inclusive of interest, at Rs. 40,000 and	 odd,  whichwas  subsequently reduced to Rs. 27,000 and odd.  It is	 notnecessary  to go into the details of the claim, because	 theamount	decreed is no more in controversy.  To the suit	 forrent,  being  Rent Suit No. 3 of 1949, in the  court  of  ofSecond	Subordinate Judge, Hooghly, the heirs  aforesaid  ofSatya  Jiban were impleaded as proforma defendants  Nos.  2,2(a)  and 2(b), and so were Satya Kiran and Satya Ranjan  asdefendants  3 and 4, respectively.  During the	pendency  ofthe rent suit, the partition suit was compromised, with	 theresult that the durpatni tenure in question was allotted  toSatya  Jiban's branch of the family.  Hence, the plaint	 wasamended	 by an order of the court, dated July 25,  1949,  bysubstituting  the  aforesaid heirs of Satya,  Jiban  as	 theplaintiffs  in the place of the Receiver aforesaid, who	 wasthe  original  plaintiff  and who was  discharged  from	 therecord.The suit was contested on a number of grounds, but it is nownecessary  only	 to refer to the plea in bar  of  the  suit,namely, that the plaintiffs substituted as aforesaid, and bytransposition  from the category of proforma  defendants  tothat of plaintiffs, were not entitled to sue for rent on theground that they had not got themselves mutated in the placeof their predecessors-in-title in the landlord's records andthat,  therefore,  this suit was barred under s. 16  of	 theAct.   It is no more necessary to set out the facts  bearingon the devolution of title to the property in question,229because that was not a controversy raised in the High Court,and the arguments in this Court were, therefore, confined tothe  technical plea aforesaid.	After hearing  the  parties,the learned trial judge decreed the suit for Rs. 25,000	 andodd.   The  first  defendant  preferred	 an  appeal  to	 theCalcutta High Court, and a -Divisional Bench of that  Court,after hearing the parties, directed a limited remand to	 thetrial  court,  for taking additional evidence  in  proof  ofcertain	 documents filed by the plaintiffs but not  properlyproved	at  the original trial.	 The trial  court  was	alsodirected to submit its findings on the question of the rightof  the	 plaintiffs  to maintain the suit  in  view  of	 theprovisions  of ss. 15 and 16 of the Act.  After remand,	 thedocuments  on proof were again, marked as exhibits I and  2,and  the  finding  was returned by the trial  court  in	 duecourse.	  After the receipt of the finding, the	 High  Courtheard  the  appeal once again and dismissed it	with  costs.The  appellant	moved  the  High  Court	 and  obtained	 thenecessary certificate.	Hence this appeal.In this Court, it was argued on behalf of the appellant thatthe provisions of s. 15 are mandatory; that those provisionsnot  having  been complied with, the bar imposed by  s.	 16,operates  against the plaintiffs, with the result that	theyare  not  entitled to recover the arrears of rent  by  suit.Sections 15 and 16 are in these terms:" 15.  When a succession to a permanent tenure takes  place,the person succeeding shall give notice of the succession tothe landlord or his common agent, if any, in the  prescribedform  within  six  months from the date	 of  succession,  inaddition to or substitution of any other mode of service, inthe manner referred to in sub-section (3) of section 12:Provided   that	 where,	 at  the  instance  of	the   personsucceeding,  mutation  is  made	 in  the  rent-roll  of	 thelandlord  within  six months of the succession,	 the  personsucceeding  shall not be required to give notice under	thissection.""  16.	A person becoming entitled to a permanent tenure  bysuccession shall not be entitled to recover by suit or otherproceeding any rent payable to him as230the holder of the tenure, until the duties imposed upon	 himby section 15 have been performed."It   is common ground that the notice contemplated by s. 15,was not given, but it was contended on behalf of  theplaintiff-respondents  that the proviso to that section	 hadbeen complied with inasmuch as evidence had been adduced  bythe  plaintiffs and accepted by the courts below,  that	 thesuperior  landlords accepted rents from the  plaintiffs	 andgranted	 them  rent-receipts  in respect of  the  tenure  inquestion,  after  ordering mutation of their  names  in	 therent-,roll.   In order to bring the case within the  provisoto s. 15, quoted above, the plaintiffs served a	 requisitionon the landlords-(I) Maharajadhiraj of Burdwan, and (2)	 SriRamlal	Bandopadhyaya, to produce all papers in	 respect  ofmutation  of names regarding the tenure in question.   Thosedocuments were not produced, but the plaintiffs examined  P.W.  2-an employee of the Burdwan Raj-and P. W.	3-their	 ownemployee-to  prove the necessary mutation.  P. W. 2  deposedthat  the  plaintiffs paid Rs. 101 as fee  for	mutation  oftheir  names in the office of the Maharajadhiraj of  Burdwanand  that  they	 were mutated in respect  of  the  8  annas'interest.  P. W. 3, similarly, proves mutation in the officeof Ramlal Babu, in respect of the other 8 annas' share.	  Inpursuance of the mutation, rent was paid and accepted by thelandlords.   The necessary order of mutation and  the  rent-receipt-exhibits 2 and respectively-were produced and placedon record after being duly proved- Nothing has been  broughtout  in	 the  cross-examination of these  two  witnesses  todetract	 from  the  value  of  their  evidence.	  Naturally.therefore.  the courts below had no difficulty in  acceptingtheir  evidence corroborated by those pieces of	 documentaryevidence.   But it was contended on behalf of the  appellantthat  s. 15 requires proof of mutation in the  rent-roll  ofthe  landlord,	and  the rent-roll or  its  certified  copy,should have been adduced in evidence, and in the absence  ofthe primary evidence of mutation contained in the  rent-rollthe plaintiffs have failed to prove the requisite  mutation.In  our opinion, there is no substance in  this	 contention.The landlords rent-roll231was  not in the custody or control of the plaintiffs.	Theyserved	requisition  on	 their landlords  to  produce  thosedocuments.   As	 those documents were not  produced  by	 theparties who would ordinarily be in possession of their rent-rolls, the plaintiffs had no option but to adduce  secondaryevidence  of  the mutation, namely,  the  order	 sanctioningmutation  and the payment of rent to the superior  landlord,in  pursuance of the sanction of mutation.  Like  any  otherdisputed    fact,   the	  factum   of	mutation   in	 thelandlords  rent-roll can be proved by the production of	 theoriginal  rent-roll or by its certified copy, if  available,and failing those, by other secondary proof of mutation.  Inthe  circumstances,  we are inclined to hold  that  in	thiscase,  the  courts  below were justified in  coming  to	 theconclusion  that  there was the necessary  mutation  of	 theplaintiffs in the landlords' rent-roll.It  was	 next  contended that there is	no  proof  that	 themutation, even if made, had been made " within six months ofthe  succession ". It is true that the date of the death  ofSatya Jiban, plaintiffs predecessor-in-title, is not  known,if that is the point of time with reference to which the sixmonths' period has to be calculated.  If the starting  pointof  time  is  the date of the allotment	 of  the  tenure  inquestion  to  the  plaintiffs'	share as  a  result  of	 thepartition,  we know that June 20, 1949, is the date  of	 thecompromise,  as appears from the list of dates	supplied  bythe counsel for the appellant.	The rent-receipt, exhibit 1,is  dated January 4, 1950, and the order of mutation  passedby the Burdwan Raj, is dated January 20, 1950.	 Apparently,therefore,  the mutation must have been effected within	 sixmonths from the date of the compromise, as a result of whichthe entire tenure was allotted to the plaintiffs' share.  Ifwas  not  argued  be-fore us that this was  not	 a  case  ofsuccession,  as contemplated by s. 15, namely, the death  ofthe  last  holder  on  the happening  of  which	 event,	 thesuccession to the tenure opened in favour of the plaintiffs.Satya Jiban had only one-third share in the entire tenure byinheritance  from his father.  The other  two-thirds  shareshad  been inherited by his two brothers	 aforesaid.   Hence,strictly speaking, succession to only232the one-third share of Satya Jiban, could open on his death.But as this aspect of the case was not canvassed before	 us,we  need  not  express	any  opinion  on  it.	As   alreadyindicated,  the date of the death of Satya Jiban not  havingbeen brought on record and if the six months' period has  tobe  counted  from  that date, it has got to  be	 assumed  infavour	of the appellant that the mutation even if  effectedas  found  by  the courts below, was  not  done	 within	 theprescribed  time.  It may also be mentioned that it was	 notargued	before us that the rent suit having originally	beenfiled  by  the Receiver pendente lite, who  represented	 theentire	16 annas interest in the tenure, the suit  had	beenproperly instituted, and no question under ss. 15 and 16  ofthe  Act,  would,  therefore, arise  if	 any  devolution  ofinterest took place during the pendency of the suit.For  the purpose of determining the present controversy,  weproceed	 on  the assumption that the mutation had  not	beenmade within six months as prescribed by s. 15, and that thisdefect	affected the entire interest in the tenure in  spiteof  the fact that the two-thirds interest  which  originallybelonged  to Satya Jiban's brothers, came to the  plaintiffsas  a  result  of  the compromise  in  the  partition  suit.Section	 16 as it stands after the amendment by	 the  BengalAct  IV	 of  1928, does not impose an absolute	bar  on	 therecovery  by suit of the arrears of rent.  The bar is  thereonly  "	 until	the duties imposed upon him  (that  is,	 theplaintiffs) by s. 15, have been performed." Now, s. 16	doesnot  speak of any time-limit.  It only speaks of the bar  tothe  recovery  of the arrears until the performance  by	 thelandlord  of the duty of giving notice of the succession  orgetting	 mutation made on the succession.  It was argued  onbehalf	of  the appellant that the performance of  the	dutyaforesaid  is inextricably bound up with the period  of	 sixmonths,	 and  that the performance of the duty	beyond	thatperiod, is no performance at all in the eye of law.  We	 arenot  impressed by this argument, and there are several	verygood reasons for holding to the contrary.  The provisions ofs. 15 are meant not only for the benefit of the landlord  orof  the inferior tenant, but of the  intermediate  landlordsalso, that is to say, the233provision   for	  notice,  or  in   the	  alternative,	 formutation .of names in the landlord's rent-roll, is meant  toprotect	 the  interest of the superior landlord in  that  itensures	 payment  of his dues by the  intermediate  landlordbefore	the latter can realise the same from his tenant,  inthis  case, the se-pataidar.  Those provisions	also  ensurethat the rightful persons entitled to the durpatni interest,get themselves mutated in the superior landlord's office, sothat  the inferior tenants may know who their new  landlordsare  as a result of succession to their old landlords.	 Thelegislature,, by fixing the limit of six months, intended toindicate that the notice of the mutation should be  effectedwithin six months, that is to say, within a reasonable	timefrom  the date of the devolution of interest, even as  thereare  similar  provisions  in  respect  of  the	mutation  ofproprietors  in the Collectorate for the purpose of  regularrealization of public demands.	But the legislature did	 notintend	to  make it mandatory in the sense that	 failing  toobserve	 the  time-limit, the landlord	completely  depriveshimself	 of his right to receive rent from his tenant,	eventhough	otherwise  due.	 That is the reason why, in  s.	 16,there  is no indication of time-limit.	On the	other  hand,there is an indication to the contrary in so far as the lastclause	quoted	above,	provides that the  bar	against	 therecovery  by suit of any rent payable to the holder  of	 thetenure,	 operates only until he performs the duties  imposedupon  him  by s. 15.  Section 16, being in the nature  of  apenal  provision,  has to be strictly limited to  the  wordscontained in the penal clause, and the penalty should not beextended  by implication.  If the legislature  had  intendedthat  the penalty should operate for all times if  the	dutywere  not performed within the time specified in s. l5,	 thelegislature   would  have  used	 the  words  "	within	 theprescribed  time "; or some such words.	 Instead  of  layingdown  such  a  time-limit,  the	 legislature  has,  by	 theamendment  aforesaid by Act IV of 1928, made it	 clear	thatthe  bar  operates  only so long as the duty  has  not	beenperformed.  No authority has been cited before us in supportof the extreme proposition that30234the  failure  on  the  part of the  landlord  to  serve	 therequisite  notice or to get the necessary mutation  effectedwithin	six  months,  has  .-he effect	of  wiping  out	 thelandlord's  right to receive rent.  There may be rulings  tothe contrary, but this Court has to resolve the	 controversyon  the	 language of the relevant sections of  the  statute,quoted above.  That language does not clearly indicate	thatthe  result contended for on behalf of the  appellant,	mustnecessarily  ensue  on his making a default  to	 take  thosenecessary steps within the time specified.  The language  ofthe  statute  is not so peremptory in express  terms  or  bynecessary  implication.	  On  the  other  hand,	 as  alreadyindicated   the	  language  easily  lends  itself   to	 theconstruction  that the prescribed time is not in the  natureof  a statutory bar to the exercise of the landlord's  rightto  recover  rent.  in	this  -connection,  it	has  to	  beremembered  that  patni	 tenure and  all  other	 subordinatetenures	 under the patnidar, are permanent tenures.   Hence,the  relationship  of landlord and  tenant,  continues	fromgeneration  to generation without there being any  necessityof  fresh attornment on the death of a durpatnidar or  othergrades	of tenants in the process of  sub-infeudation.	 Therelationship  is  all the time there,  only  the  landlord'srecord	has  to be kept up-to-date by making  the  necessarysubstitution  in  the rent-roll or by giving notice  of	 thechange	in the succession to the landlord's  interest.	 Thelegislature had to indicate a time by way of laying down theordinary procedure for taking the steps indicated in s.	 15.Six  months'  period was deemed by the legislature to  be  asufficiently  long period to enable those steps being  takenin the ordinary course of business.  But it is not difficultto imagine cases where such steps may not be feasible withinthe  prescribed time.  For example, where the landlord	diesleaving	 him surviving only an infant heir without a  properguardian  to  protect the infant's interest, it may  take  aconsiderably longer period than six months to have a  properguardian  appointed,  if necessary, through court.   It	 maywell  be  that the succession itself is	 disputed,  and	 thecontroversy  may take some years to get determined  finally.It cannot be reasonably235suggested that because -the requisite notice or the mutationhas not been given or effected within the prescribed  periodof  six months, the landlord's right to recovery`  of  rent,disappears.   That could not have been the intention of	 thelegislature.   Again,  it  may easily be  supposed  that  anhonest	tenant	goes to his new landlord and pays  him	renthand to hand, even though there has been no such step  takenwithin the time as contemplated by s. 15.  It cannot be saidthat such a payment of rent out of court, will not be recog-nized  by  a court, if and when a controversy about  such  apayment	 were  to  arise.   In	this  way  instances   maybemultiplied  where the provisions of s. 15 of the  Act,	havenot  been strictly complied with, but still the receipt	 and-payment  of  rent as between the patnidar and	his  tenant,have continued for a sufficiently long period, to prove whatwas required to be done under that section.  In our opinion,the  inference	is clear that the provision as	regards	 thetime-limit,  is not mandatory but only directory,  and	thattransgression of that directory provision has the effect  ofonly  delaying the landlord's remedy of recovery of  arrearsof rent by suit so long as the landlord has not done what heis  required by law to do.  But that provision has  not	 theeffect of absolutely depriving the landlord of his remedy bysuit for all times; he may recover through court, of course,subject	  to  the  law	of  limitation.	  In  our   opinion,therefore, acceptance of the appellant's arguments would  benothing	 more  than " piling  unreason	upon  technicality",which no, court of justice can countenance.In view of these considerations, it must be held that  thereis  no merit in this appeal which is, accordingly  dismissedwith costs.					Appeal dismissed.236