PETITIONER:N.   T. VELUSWAMI THEVAR,	Vs.RESPONDENT:G.   RAJA NAINAR AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/11/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  422		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 623 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC 368	 (9) R	    1975 SC1274	 (5) R	    1976 SC1866	 (36)ACT:Election Dispute--Rejection of Nomination paper by ReturningOfficer-Validity   of  rejection  raised   before   ElectionPetition--Jurisdiction	of Tribunal to entertain grounds  ofdisqualification   not	raised	before	Returning   Officer-"Improperly  rejected ", meaning of--Representation  of	 thePeople	Act,  1951  (43 Of 1951) ss.  7,  36(2),  100(1)(c),100(1)(d)(i).HEADNOTE:The nomination paper of the fourth respondent who was one ofthe  candidates for election to the Legislative Assembly  ofthe  State,  was rejected by the returning  officer  on	 theground	that as he was the Headmaster of a  Government-aidedschool	he  was disqualified under s. 7(d) and	(e)  of	 theRepresentation	of  the People Act, 1951, to be	 chosen	 forelection.   One	 of the voters of the constituency  filed  apetition  praying  that	 the election of  the  appellant  bedeclared  void under s. 100(1)(c) of the Act on	 the  groundthat  the  rejection of the nomination paper of	 the  fourthrespondent was improper because the latter had ceased to  bea  Headmaster  at  the	time of	 his  nomination  and  that,further, the institution was a private one.  The  appellant,who  was  the second respondent in the	petition,  contendedthat  the  nomination  paper of the  fourth  respondent	 wasrightly	 rejected not only on the-ground put forward  beforethe  returning officer but also for the reasons that he	 wasinterested in Government contracts and that he had agreed toserve as a, teacher under the District Board.  The  questionwas whether in an election petition challenging the validityof the rejection of a nomination paper under s:	  100(1)(c)of the Act, it was open to the parties to raise grounds624of disqualification other 'than those put forward before thereturning officer.  It was contended for the respondent thatthe proceedings before the Election Tribunal were really  byway of appeal against the decision of the returning  officerand  that,  therefore,	the  scope of  the  enquiry  in	 theelection petition must be co-extensive with that before	 thereturning  officer and must be limited to the grounds  takenbefore him.Held,  that an election petition is an	original  proceedinginstituted by the presentation of a petition under s. 81  ofthe  Representation  of the People Act, 1951, and  that	 thejurisdiction  which  a	Tribunal  exercises  in	 hearing  anelection  petition even when it raises a question  under  s.100(1)(c)  of  the  Act is not in the nature  of  an  appealagainst the decision of the returning officer.Held,  further,	 that in considering  whether  a  nominationpaper  was improperly rejected under s. 100(1)(c), the	realquestion  for  decision would be whether the  candidate	 wasduly qualified and was not subject to any  disqualificationsas  provided  in s. 36(2) of the Act.  The  Tribunal  would,consequently,	be   competent	to  entertain	grounds	  ofdisqualification  other	 than those put forward	 before	 thereturning officer.The  expression " improperly rejected " in s.  100(1)(c)  ofthe Act, explained.Mengh Raj v. Bhimandas, (1952) 2 E. L. R. 301, Tej Singh  v.Election Tribunal, JaiPur, (1954) 9 E. L. R. 193 and DhanrajDeshlehara  v.	Vishwanath Y. Tamaskar, (1958) 15 E.  L.  R.260, approved.JUDGMENT:Civil APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 231 and 232of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober 21, 1957, of the Madras High Court in Writ PetitionsNos. 675 and 676 of 1957.R.   Ganapathy	Iyer, S. B. Adityan and	 G.  Gopalakrishnan,for the appellant.A.   N. Sinha and P. K. Mukherjee, for respondent No. 1.1958.  November 24.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AIYAR.,  J.-These appeals raise a	question  ofconsiderable importance as to the scope of an enquiry in  anelection  petition  wherein election is called	in  questionunder s. 100(1)(c) of the Representation of the People	Act,1951 (43 of 1951), on the ground that a nomination paper hadbeen improperly' rejected.		    625The  facts are that during the general elections which	wereheld   in  1957	 six  persons  including  the,,	  appellant,Veluswami Thevar, the second respondent' Chellapandian,	 andthe  fourth  respondent,  Arunachalam,	were  nominated	 forelection to the Legislative Assembly of the State of  Madrasfrom  Alangulam Constituency in the District of	 TirunelveliAt  the time of the scrutiny which was on February 1,  1957,Chellapandian  raised  an  objection to	 the  nomination  ofArunachalam on the ground that he was the Head Master of theNational   Training   School,  Tiruchendur,  which   was   aGovernment-aided   school,   and  that	he   was   thereforedisqualified   under  s.  7,  cls.  (d)	 and  (e)   of	 theRepresentation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referredto  as	the Act), as holding an office of profit  under	 theGovernment.   In  upholding this  objection,  the  returningofficer observed:" Sri S. Arunachalam is not present at the time of  scrutinyof  nominations nor any authorised agent of his	 could	takenotice	of the objection and file a reply.' In view  of	 theobjection  which has not been cleared by Sri S.	 Arunachalamby satisfying me that he is not holding an office of  profitin  a  concern in which the State Government  has  financialinterest, the objection is upheld and Sri S. Arunachalam  isdisqualified under Sections 7(d) and (e) of Act 43 of  1951.Accordingly his nomination is rejected."The  five  nomination  papers  were  accepted;	two  of	 thecandidates  subsequently  withdrew from	 the  election;	 theother  three went to the polls, and on March 10,  1957,	 theappellant  who	secured	 the largest  number  of  votes	 wasdeclared elected.On  April 18, 1957, Raja Nainar, the first  respondent,	 whowas not a candidate but a voter filed E. P. No. 109 of	1957praying that the election of the appellant be declared	voidon the ground that the rejection of the nomination paper  ofArunachalam was improper, because he had ceased to be a HeadMaster	at the time of his nomination, and that further	 theinstitution  was  a  private one.   The	 appellant  filed  awritten statement in which he pleaded that Arunachalam was79626not  qualified	to be chosen not merely on  the	 ground	 putforward	 by Chellapandian before the returning	officer	 butalso  on the grounds that he was interested as a partner  incontracts for the execution of works for the Government, andthat  further  he  had entered into an	agreement  with	 theDistrict  Board,  Chittoor, to serve as a  teacher  in	thatBoard,	and that his nomination paper was therefore  rightlyrejected.   Raja Nainar then came out with the	application,1.  A. No. 5 of 1957, out of which the	present	 proceedingsarise,	to  strike out the additional grounds  of  disquali-fication  raised  in the statement of the appellant  on	 theground that the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to enquire intoany  ground of disqualification which was not  taken  beforethe returning officer, and that accordingly the new  groundsput forward by the appellant should be struck out.By  its order dated August 17, 1957, the Tribunal held	thatthe  question  to be decided by it was whether there  was  avalid nomination paper, and that to decide that, it could gointo grounds other than those which were put forward  beforethe  returning	officer, and, in that  view,  dismissed	 theapplication.   The correctness of this order was  challengedby  Raja  Nainar in two Writ Petitions Nos. 675 and  676  of1957,  preferred under Art. 226.  Therein, he  repeated	 hiscontention  that  it was not competent to  the	Tribunal  toenquire into any but the grounds which had been put  forwardbefore	the  returning officer, and prayed that	 a  writ  ofcertiorari  be issued to quash the order in 1. A. No.  5  of1957  and  a writ of prohibition, to restrain  the  Tribunalfrom enquiring into the new grounds raised by the appellant.These applications were heard by a Bench of the Madras	HighCourt  consisting  of Rajagopalan and  Rajagopals  Ayyangar,JJ., who upheld the contention of the petitioner, and statedtheir conclusion in these terms:"  We  are clearly of opinion that the	enquiry	 before	 theTribunal  must	be restricted to the  objections  which	 thereturning  officer  had	 to consider  and  decide,  but	 notnecessarily to the material placed627before	the  returning officer at the stage of	the  summaryenquiry.   The Tribunal has jurisdiction to adjudicate	uponthe  truth  and	 validity of those  objections	on  relevantmaterial,  even if that material be other than	that  placedbefore	 the  returning	 officer.   The	 Tribunal   has	  nojurisdiction  to  investigate the truth or validity  of	 theobjections  which were not put forward before the  returningofficer, and which he had therefore no occasion to consider.Once again we have to point out that we are discussing	onlythe  position of a candidate whose nomination was  rejected,and  not, for instance, that of a returned candidate.""  A  further objection was also taken	before	the  learnedjudges	that  as the decision of the Election  Tribunal	 wasopen  to appeal under s. 116A of the Act, the court  should,in  exercise  of its discretion under Art. 226,	 decline  toentertain writ petitions against interlocutory orders.	 Butthe  learned  judge  held  that	 as  the  Tribunal  had	  nojurisdiction  to  entertain grounds other than	those  whichwere  put forward before the returning officer, writs  couldissue under Art. 226.  In the result, they quashed the orderof the Election Tribunal in 1. A. No. 5 of 1957, and  issueda   writ  of  Mandamus	directing  it  to  dispose  of	 theapplication  afresh in accordance with law as laid  down  inthe judgment.  It is against this judgment that the  presentappeals	 have been preferred on leave granted by this  Courtunder  Art. 136, and the point that arises for	decision  iswhether in an election petition questioning the propriety ofthe  rejection of a nomination paper under s.  100(1)(c)  ofthe  Act,  it  is open to the parties to  raise	 grounds  ofdisqualification  other	 than those put forward	 before	 thereturning officer.It  will  be  convenient  at this  stage  to  refer  to	 theprovisions of the Act hearing on this question.	 Section  32of the Act provides that,"Any  person maybe nominated as a candidate for election  tofill  a	 seat if he is qualified to be chosen to  fill	thatseat under the provisions of the Constitution and this Act."Under s. 33(1), the candidate is to deliver to the returningofficer a nomination paper completed in the628prescribed  form  and  signed by the  candidate	 and  by  anelector of the constituency as proposer.  Section 33(4)  enacts that,"  On the presentation of a nomination paper, the  returningofficer	 shall satisfy himself that the names and  electoralroll numbers of the candidate and his proposer as entered inthe  nomination paper are the same as those entered  in	 theelectoral rolls:Provided  that	the  returning	officer	 shall	permit	 anyclerical  or  technical	 error in the  nomination  paper  inregard to the said names or numbers to be corrected in orderto bring them into conformity with the corresponding entriesin the electoral rolls; and where necessary, direct that anyclerical  or  printing error in the said  entries  shall  beoverlooked."Section	 35 provides inter alia that the  returning  officershall  cause to be affixed in some conspicuous place in	 hisoffice	a notice of the nomination  containing	descriptionssimilar	 to those contained in the nomination paper both  ofthe  candidate	and of the proposer.  Section  36,  omittingwhat is not material, is as follows:36.  (1) " On the date fixed for the scrutiny of nominationsunder section 30, the candidates, their election agents, oneproposer  of  each  candidate, and  one	 other	person	dulyauthorized  in	writing	 by each  candidate,  but  no  otherperson,	 may attend at such time and place as the  returningofficer	 may appoint; and the returning officer	 shall	givethem all reasonable facilities for examining the  nominationpapers	of all candidates which have been  delivered  withinthe time and in the manner laid down in section 33.(2)  The returning officer shall then examine the nominationpapers and shall decide all objections which may be made  toany nomination, and may, either on such objection or on	 hisown motion, after such summary inquiry, if any, as he thinksnecessary,  reject  any nomination on any of  the  followinggrounds:-(a)  that  the	candidate  either is  not  qualified  or  isdisqualified for being chosen to fill the seat under any  ofthe following provisions that may, be applicable, namely		    629Articles 84, 102, 173 and 191,Part 11 of this Act,		     or(b)  that there has been a failure to comply With any of theprovisions  of	section 33 or section 34; or  (c)  that	 thesignature  of  the  candidate  or  the	pro.  poser  on	 thenomination paper is not genuine.....................................................(5)  The  returning officer shall hold the scrutiny  on	 thedate appointed in this behalf under clause (b) of section 30and  shall  not	 allow any adjournment	of  the	 proceedingsexcept	when such proceedings are interrupted or  obstructedby riot or open violence or by causes beyond his control:Provided  that	in case an objection is made  the  candidateconcerned may be allowed time to rebut it not later than thenext day but one following the date fixed for scrutiny,	 andthe returning officer shall record his decision on the	dateto which the proceedings have been adjourned.(6)  The returning officer shall endorse on each  nominationpaper his decision accepting or rejecting the same ania,  ifthe nomination paper is rejected, shall record in writing  abrief statement of his reasons for such rejection."Then, we have s. 100(1)(c), the construction of which is themain point for determination.  It is as follows:100. (1)  " Subject to the provisions of subsection (2),  ifthe Tribunal is of opinion-(c) that any nomination has been improperly rejected ;......the  Tribunal  shall declare the election  of  the  returnedcandidate to be void."Now, the whole controversy between the parties is as   towhat the expression " improperly rejected " in s. 100(1)(c)means.	 According  to the appellant,  when  the  nominationpaper  of a candidate who is under no such  disqualificationas  is	mentioned  in s. 36(2) has been	 rejected,  that  isimproper rejection withins.   100(1)(c).	 Acoording to the -respondent, when the630nomination paper of a candidate is rejected by the returningofficer	 on  the ground that he is subject  to	a  specifieddisqualification, the rejection is improper, if it is  foundthat  that disqualification does not exist.  If	 the  formerview  is  correct, then the scope of an enquiry	 before	 theTribunal  must extend to all matters which are mentioned  ins.  36(2),  and if the latter, then it must  be	 limited  todetermining  whether  the  ground  on  which  the  returningofficer	 has rejected the nomination is well-founded.	Now,to decide what the expression " improperly rejected " in  s.100(1)(c) precisely imports, it is necessary to examine	 therelevant  provisions of the Act bearing on the question	 andthe  setting of the above section therein.  Under s.  32  ofthe  Act,  any person may be nominated as  a  candidate	 forelection if he is duly qualified under the provisions of theConstitution  and  the Act.  Section  36(2)  authorises	 thereturning  officer  to reject any nomination  paper  on	 theground that he is either not qualified, that is, under ss. 3to  7  of the Act, or is disqualified under  the  provisionsreferred to therein.  If there are no grounds for  rejectinga  nomination  paper  under  s. 36(2), then  it	 has  to  beaccepted, and the name of the candidate is to be included ina  list.  Vide s. 36(8).  Then, we come to s. 100(1)(c)	 ands.  100(1)(d)(1), which provide a remedy to persons who	 areaggrieved  by  an order improperly rejecting  or  improperlyaccepting any nomination.  In the context, it appears to  usthat  the improper rejection or acceptance must have  refer-ence  to  s. 36(2), and that the rejection of  a  nominationpaper  of  a  candidate who is qualified to  be	 chosen	 forelection  and  who  does not suffer from  any  of  the	dis-qualifications	mentioned  in  s. 36(2)	 would	be  improperwithin	s.  100(1)(c), and that, likewise, acceptance  of  anomination paper of a candidate who is not qualified or	 whois    disqualified   will   equally   be   improper    unders.100(1)(d)(1).Section	32 confers a substantive right on  acandidate  to be chosen to the legislature subject  only  tothe limitations enacted in Arts. 84, 102, 173 and 191 of theConstitution  and ss. 3 to 7 of the Act, and ss. 36 and	 100provide	 the machinery for the exercise and  enforcement  ofthat right.  It is a sound631rule  of construction that procedural enactments  should  beconstrued  liberally  and in such manner as  to	 render	 theenforcement  of substantive rights effective.	Readings  s.100(1)(c)  in the context of the whole enactment,  we  thinkthat  an  enquiry before the Tribunal must embrace  all	 thematters	 as to qualification and disqualification  mentionedin s. 36(2), and that it cannot be limited to the particularground	of  disqualification  which  was  taken	 before	 thereturning officer.It  was	 contended for the respondent that  the	 proceedingsbefore the Tribunal are really by way of appeal against	 thedecision of the returning officer, and that, therefore,	 thescope  of the enquiry in the election petition must  be	 co-extensive  with that before the returning officer, and	mustbe  limited to the ground taken before him.  It	 was  arguedthat  a	 decision  could be said to be	improper  only	withreference to a ground which was put forward and decided in aparticular  manner  by	the  returning	officer,  and	thattherefore  the expression " improperly rejected " would,  inits  true  connotation, restrict the scope  of	the  enquirybefore the Tribunal to the ground taken before the returningofficer.  We are unable to agree with this contention.	 Thejurisdiction  which  a	Tribunal  exercises  in	 hearing  anelection  petition even when it raises a question  under  s.100(1)(c)  is  not in the nature of an	appeal	against	 thedecision of the returning officer.  An election petition  isan  original proceeding instituted by the presentation of  apetition  under	 s. 81 of the Act.  The respondents  have  aright  to  file written statements by way of  reply  to	 it;issues	have to be framed, and subject to the provisions  ofthe  Act,  the	provisions of the Code	of  Civil  Procedureregulate  the trial of the petition.  All the  parties	havethe right to adduce evidence, and that is of the essence  ofan  original proceeding as contrasted with a  proceeding  byway of appeal.	That being the character of the proceedings,the  rule applicable is that which governs the trial of	 alloriginal proceedings; that is, it is open to a party to	 putforward all grounds in support of or negation of the  claim,subject only to such limitations as may be found in the Act.632It should be noted in this connection that if a petition  toset aside an election on the ground of improper rejection ofa nomination paper is in the nature of an appeal against thedecision, of the returning officer, then logically speaking,the  decision  of  the Tribunal must be based  only  on	 thematerials  placed  before the returning officer	 given	withrespect	 to  the ground which was urged before him,  and  nofresh evidence could be admitted before the Tribunal  exceptin accordance with 0. 41, R. 27.  The learned judges in	 thecourt below, however, observe that though the enquiry beforethe  Tribunal  is restricted to the  particular	 ground	 putforward	 before the returning officer, it is not  restrictedto  the	 material placed before him, and that  all  evidencebearing on that ground could be adduced before the Tribunal.This,  in our view, is quite correct.  The enquiry  which  areturning  officer  has to make under s. 36  is	 summary  incharacter.   He may make " such summary enquiry, if any,  ashe thinks necessary "; he can act suo motu.  Such being	 thenature	of the enquiry, the right which is given to a  partyunder  s.  100(1)(c) and s. 100(1)(d)(1)  to  challenge	 thepropriety  of  an  order of rejection  or  acceptance  of  anomination  paper would become illusory, if the Tribunal  isto base its decision only on the materials placed before thereturning officer.It was contended for the respondent that even with referenceto  the	 ground	 taken	before	the  returning	officer,  noevidence  other	 than what was placed before  him  could  bebrought before the Tribunal, and he relied on the  followingobservations of the learned judges in Charanjit Lal v. LehriSingh (1) :" Whether a nomination has been improperly rejected or	not,has  to be considered in relation to the state	of  evidencebefore	the returning officer at the time of  the  scrutiny.The  testimony	of  the	 returning  officer  shows  that  herejected  the nomination, because it did not appear  to	 himthat  on the question of age the candidate Shri	 Pirthi	 wasqualfied to stand for election' "(1)  A. I. R. 1958 punj. 433. 435.		    633There,,	 a  nomination	paper  had  been  rejected  by	 thereturning officer on the ground that the candidate did,, notappear	to  possess the age qualification required  by	Art.173.   The  correctness of this order was challenged  in  anelection petition.  Evidence was taken as to the age of	 thecandidate in this petition, and eventually it was held	thatthe order of the returning officer was right.  In the  orderof rejection, the returning officer also stated:" The nomination is rejected as the age is not mentioned  inthe  nomination	 paper.	  Neither  the	candidate  nor	 theproposer  or  any person duly authorised on  his  behalf  ispresent to testify to his age."Now, the argument before the High Court was that the failureto  mention  the age in the nomination paper  was  a  formaldefect which should have been condoned under s. 36(4) of theAct.  The learned judges held that the defect was not merelyone  of	 failure  to  mention the age but  of  want  of	 therequisite  qualification in age, and that that could not  becured  under  s. 36(4).	 In this context,  the	observationsrelied	on  could not be read as meaning  that	no  evidencecould be adduced even in respect of a ground which was urgedbefore	the  returning officer, as, in	fact,  evidence	 wastaken  before the Tribunal and a finding given, and if	theymeant what the respondent suggests they do, we do not  agreewith  them.   It is to be noted that in many  of  the  caseswhich came before this Court, as for example, Durga  ShankarMehta  v. Thakur Raghuraj Singh and others (1), the  findingof the Tribunal was based on fresh evidence admitted  beforeit,   and  the	propriety  of  such  admission	 was   neverquestioned.  And if the true position is, as we have held itis, that it is open to the parties to adduce fresh  evidenceon  the matter in issue, it is difficult to imagine how	 theproceedings  before the Tribunal can be regarded as  in	 thenature	of  appeal  against the decision  of  the  returningofficer.In support of his contention that it is only the ground thatis urged before the returning officer that(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 267.80634can  be	 raised	 before the  Tribunal,	Mr.  Sinha,  learnedcounsel	 for the respondent, relies on the provision  in  s.36(6)  that  when  a  nomination  paper	 is  rejected,	 thereturning  officer should record his reasons therefor.	 Theobject	of  this provision, it is argued, is to	 enable	 theTribunal  to  decide  whether the  order  of  the  returningofficer is right or not, and by implication it confines	 thescope  of the enquiry before the Tribunal to the ground	 putforward	 before the returning officer.	This contention	 is,in  our opinion, unsound.  Now, when a nomination  paper  isaccepted,  s. 36(6) does not require that any reason  shouldbe  recorded therefor.	If the contention of the  respondentis  right, it would follow that acceptance of  a  nominationpaper can never be questioned.	But that would be against s.100(1)(d)(1),  and  it	must  therefore	 be  held  that	  anacceptance  can be questioned on all the  grounds  availableunder  s. 36(2).  Section 100(1)(d)(1) deals  with  improperacceptance of a nomination paper, and if the word " improper"  in that provision has reference to the matters  mentionedin  s.	36(2),	it  must have the  same	 connotation  in  s.100(1)(c)  as well.  The word " improper " which  occurs  inboth  s.  100(1)(c) and s. 100(1)(d)(1) must bear  the	samemeaning in both the provisions, unless there is something inthe context to the contrary, and none such has been shown.There  is  another difficulty in the way of  accepting	thisargument  of the respondent.  A candidate may be subject  tomore than one disqualification, and his nomination paper maybe  questioned	on all those grounds.	Supposing  that	 thereturning  officer  upholds one objection  and	rejects	 thenomination  paper  on the basis of  that  objection  withoutgoing  into other objections, notwithstanding that under  s.36(2) he has to decide all the objections, is it open to therespondents  in the election petition to adduce evidence  onthose  objections ? According to the respondent, it is	not,so  that  if the decision of the returning  officer  on	 theobjection on which he rejected the nomination paper is	heldto  be bad, the Tribunal has no option but to set aside	 theelection under s. 100(1)(c), even though the candidate	was,in fact, disqualified and his nominationpaper  was rightly rejected.  Mr. Sinha for  the  respondentconcedes  that	the result would be anomalous, but  he	saysthat  the Law of Election is full of anomalies, and this  isone of them, and that is no reason for not interpreting	 thelaw  on its own-terms.	It is no doubt true that if  on	 itstrue construction, a statute leads to anomalous results, theCourts have no option but to give effect to it and leave  itto the legislature to amend and alter the law.	But when  ona  construction	 of a statute, two views are  possible,	 onewhich  results	in an anomaly and the other not, it  is	 ourduty  to  adopt	 the  latter and  not  the  former,  seekingconsolation  in	 the  thought that  the	 law  bristles	withanomalies.   Anomalies will disappear, and the law  will  befound  to  be simple and logical, if it is  understood	thatwhen a question is raised in an election petition as to	 thepropriety of the rejection of a nomination paper, the  pointto  be decided is about the propriety of the nomination	 andnot  the decision of the returning officer on the  materialsplaced before him, and that decision must depend on  whetherthe  candidate is duly qualified and is not subject  to	 anydisqualifications as provided in s. 36(2)It  remains  to deal with one more  contention	advanced  onbehalf of the respondent, and that is based on the followingobservations in Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmad Ishaque andothers (1):" Under this provision R. 47(4), the Tribunal is constituteda  court  of appeal against the decision  of  the  returningofficer,  and as such its jurisdiction must be	co-extensivewith  that  of	the  returning	officer	 and  cannot  extendfurther."The argument is that if the jurisdiction of the Tribunal  isco-extensive  with that of the returning officer,  then	 theenquiry before it must be confined to the grounds which wereurged  before the returning officer.  Now, the	observationsquoted above were made statedly with reference to R. 47, andassuming  that they apply to an enquiry under s.  100(1)(c),the question still remains, what is the jurisdiction of	 thereturning  officer  in	hearing	 objections  to	  nominationpapers?(31) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1104, 1132.636His  jurisdiction is defined in s. 36(2), and  the  Tribunalmust therefore have jurisdiction to decide all the questionswhich  can  be raised under that section.  The fact  that  aparticular ground which- could have been raised was not,  infact,  raised before the returning officer does not  put  anend to his jurisdiction to decide it, and what he could havedecided	 if  it	 had been raised, could be  decided  by	 theTribunal, when raised.Mr.  Ganapathy	Iyer,  learned counsel	for  the  appellant,invited	 our  attention	 to the decisions  of  the  ElectionTribunals  on the question whether grounds other than  thoseraised before the returning officer could be put forward  inan  enquiry  in an election petition.  They held,  with	 onesolitary  exception, that it is permissible, and indeed,  itis stated in Mengh Raj v. Bhimandas (1) as settled law	thatthe  rejection	of a nomination paper can  be  sustained  ongrounds	 not  raised before the returning officer.   If	 thelegislature which must be taken to have knowledge of the lawas interpreted in those decisions wanted to make a departurefrom  it, it would have said so in clear terms, and  in	 theabsence	 of  such  an  expression,  it	would  be  right  tointerpret  s. 100(1)(c) as not intended to alter the law  aslaid down in those decisions.It  is	now necessary to refer to the decisions	 which	havebeen  cited before us.	In Durga Shankar Mehta's  case	(2),the  election  was  to a  double-member	 constituency.	 Theappellant  who	obtained  the largest number  of  votes	 wasdeclared elected to the general seat and one Vasantarao,  tothe  reserved  seat.   The  validity  of  the  election	 waschallenged  on the ground that Vasantarao was below the	 ageof 25 years, and was, therefore, disqualified to stand.	 TheElection  Tribunal upheld that objection, and set aside	 theentire	election.  The decision was taken in appeal to	thisCourt,	and  the  point for determination  was	whether	 theelection  of  the appellant was liable to be  set  aside  onaccount of the disqualification of Vasantarao.	It was	heldthat  the matter fell within s. 100(2)(c) as it	 then  stoodand  not  under s. 100(1)(c), and that the election  of	 theappellant could not be declared void.(1) [1952] 2 E.L.R. 301, 31O.(2) [19551 1 S.C.R. 267.637This  is  not  a direct pronouncement on the  point  now  incontroversy, and that is conceded.  In Vashist Narain Sharmav.  Dev Chandra and others (1), a question was raised as  towhat would be " improper acceptance " within the meaning  ofs. 100; but in the view taken by this Court, no opinion	 wasexpressed thereon.The  question now under consideration came up  directly	 fordecision before the High Court of Rajasthan in Tej Singh  v.Election  Tribunal,  Jaipur (2), and it was  held  that	 therespondent  to an election petition was entitled to raise  aplea  that the nomination of the petitioner rejected on	 oneground by the returning officer was defective on one or moreof  the other grounds mentioned in s. 36(2) of the Act,	 andthat  such  a plea, if taken, must be enquired into  by	 theElection  Tribunal.  In Dhanraj Deshlehara v. Vishwanath  Y.Tamaskar  (3),	it  was observed by a Bench  of	 the  MadhyaPradesh High Court that in determining whether a  nominationwas improperly rejected, the Election Tribunal was not boundto confine its enquiry to the ground on which the  returningofficer	 rejected it, and that even if the ground  on  whichthe  returning officer rejected the nomination could not  besustained,  the rejection could not, be held to be  improperif the Tribunal found other fatal defects in the nomination.An  unreported judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court  inBadrivishal  Pitti v. J. V. Narsing Rao (4) has	 been  citedbefore	us, and that also takes the view that in an  enquirybefore	the Election Tribunal, it is open to the parties  tosupport	 an  order  of rejection of a  nomination  paper  ongrounds	 other than those which were put forward before	 thereturning   officer.   We  are	in  agreement	with   thesedecisions.As the question has also been raised as to the propriety  ofinterfering   in   writ	 petitions  under  Art.	  226	withinterlocutory  orders  passed in the course  of	 an  enquirybefore	the Election Tribunal, we shall express our  opinionthereon.  The jurisdiction of the High Court to issue  writsagainst orders of the Tribunal is(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 509.(2) [1954] 9 E.L.R.193	       (3) [1958] 15 E.L.R. 260.(4)  Special Appeal No. 1 Of 1957.638undoubted; but then, it is well settled that where there  isanother remedy provided, the court may properly exercise itsdiscretion  in	declining to interfere under Art.  226.	  Itshould be remembered that under the election law as it stoodprior  to  the	amendment in1956,  election  petitions	weredismissed on preliminary grounds and the correctness of	 thedecision  was challenged in applications under Art. 226	 andin  further appeals to this Court, with the result  that  bythe  time  the matter was finally decided, the life  of	 thelegislatures  for  which the election was  held	 would	haveitself	very  nearly  come  to an  end	thus  rendering	 theproceedings infructuous.  A signal example of a case of thiskind  is  to be found in the decision  reported	 in  BhikajiKeshao	Joshi  and  another v. Brijlal	Nandlal	 Biyani	 andothers	 (1).	It  is	to  remedy  this  defect  that	 thelegislature has now amended the law by providing a right  ofappeal against a decision of the Tribunal to the High  Courtunder  s.  116-A,  and	its  intention	is'  obviously	thatproceedings before the Tribunal should go on with expeditionand without interruption, and that any error in its decisionshould	be  set right in an appeal under that  section.	  Inthis view, it would be a proper exercise of discretion underArt. 226 to decline to interfere with interlocutory orders.In the result, we allow the appeals, set aside the orders ofthe  court below, and dismiss the writ petitions.  filed  bythe respondent, with costs here and in the court below.	      Appeal allowed(1) [1055] 2 S.C.R. 428.639