PETITIONER:BANARSI DAS & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:16/04/1956BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAIMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR  520		  1956 SCR  357ACT:       Constitution of India, Arts. 14 and 16-Government's right to       lay  down  certain qualification for new	 recruits  for	any       appointment  or employment under	 the  Government-Candidates       not possessing any fundamental right for employment.HEADNOTE:       The petitioners-Ex-patwaris under the State of Uttar Pradesh       -brought	 the  present  petition under  Article	32  of	the       Constitution   in  the  Supreme	Court  alleging	 that	the       provisions  of arts. 14 and 16 of the Constitution had  been       violated	 because they bad been denied equality	before	the       law and equal opportunity for employment under the State.       Patwaris numbering about 28,000 in the whole State of  Uttar       Pradesh	had  organized themselves into "The  U.P.  Patwaris       Associations"  with a view to improving their prospects	and       emoluments.   The association passed  resolutions  demanding       increase	 in  pay and allowances etc.   The  Government	was       considering  these matters when a large number  of  patwaris       went  on	 a  "pen-down  strike" with  the  result  that	the       Government withdrew the recognition of the Association.	The       Government  further published the new "Land Records  Manual"       embodying   new	 amended   rules   regarding   recruitment,       conditions   of	service	 and  duties  of   patwaris.	The       Association  protested  against	the  revised  Land  Records       Manual  and  passed a resolution that  all  patwaris  should       submit	their  resignations  on	 the  2nd  February,   1953       requesting  that they should be relieved of their duties	 by       the  4th	 March, 1953 after which date  they  will  consider       themselves  as free from all obligations to work	 under	the       Government.  About 26,000 patwaris actually resigned with  a       view  to	 paralyse the whole revenue administration  in	the       State and to coerce       47       358       the Government into accepting their demands.  The Government       however,	 accepted their resignations and relieved  them	 of       their  duties before the 4th March, 1953.  On the very  next       date,  the  5th March, 1953, the	 Government  announced	the       creation	 of  a new service of "Lekhpals" and  proceeded	 to       organize that service by recruiting the new personnel  which       included	 most  of the old patwaris.  It also  included	all       those  patwaris	whose  record  of  service  was	 free  from       blemishes and who had withdrawn their resignations.  Some of       the petitioners were absorbed in the new cadre of  Lekbpals.       The Government was thus giving a locus poenitentiae to those       of  the	ex-patwaris  who had  joined  the  agitation.	The       question	 for  consideration before the	Supreme	 Court	was       whether	the  petitioners  who  came  within  the   category       excluded	  from	 re-appointment	 had  been   denied   equal       opportunity  of appointment as Lekhpals and thus Art. 16	 of       the Constitution had been infringed.       Held,  that the contention of the petitioners that they	bad       been prevented from re-entering Government service upon	the       re-organisation of the cadre under the new name and had been       denied equality of opportunity as contemplated by Art. 16 of       the  Constitution  was without substance as  the	 Government       were within their rights to lay down certain  qualifications       for  the new recruits.  They were entitled to exclude  those       persons	who  had  betrayed  a  lack  of	 proper	 sense	 of       discipline.       Article	16  of	the  Constitution is  an  instance  of	the       application  of	the general rule of equality laid  down	 in       Art.  14	 with  special reference  to  the  opportunity	for       appointment  and employment under the Government.  Like	all       other  employers, Government are also entitled to  pick	and       choose  from amongst a large number of  candidates  offering       themselves for employment under the Government.JUDGMENT:       ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 569 of 1954.       Under Article 32 of the Constitution for the enforcement	 of       fundamental rights.       Purshotam Trikamdas, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath of	M/s       Rajinder Narain & Co., for the petitioners.       K.   L. Misra, Advocate-General of Uttar Pradesh,       S.   P.	Sinha,	K. B. Asthana and C. P. Lal, for  the  res-       pondents.       1956.  April 16.	 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by       SINHA J.-This petition under article 32 of the  Constitution       on behalf of as many as 726 persons, ex-       359       patwaris	 under	the first respondent, the  State  of  Uttar       Pradesh,	 seeks	the  aid of this  Court	 in  enforcing	the       provisions of articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution, on the       allegation mainly that they had been denied equality  before       the  law	 and  equal opportunity for  employment	 under	the       State.  The Revenue Minister of Uttar Pradesh is the  second       respondent, and the Land Reforms Commissioner of that  State       is  the third respondent.  The Collectors of  Meerut,  Muza-       ffarnagar,  Aligarh, Badaun and Moradabad are respondents  4       to 8.       It appears that patwaris numbering about 28,000 in the whole       of  the State of Uttar Pradesh had organised  themselves	 in       1940  into  "The U.P. Patwaris Association" with a  view	 to       improving  their prospects and emoluments.  They were  part-       time  servants of the Government in the Revenue	Department.       After the Zamindari Abolition Act was brought into operation       in that State, their services were very much in demand.	The       Association  held meetings and passed resolutions  demanding       increase	 in  pay  and allowances and  betterment  of  their       service	 conditions.	These  matters	 were	under	the       consideration	of   the   Government,	  following    upon       representations and deputation to the Revenue Minister.	 It       appears,	 however, that under bad advice a large	 number	 of       patwaris in the State went on a "pen-down strike" on the 9th       January	1953 with the result that the  Government  withdrew       the  official  recognition of the Association  on  the  19th       February 1953.  In the meantime the new Land Records  Manual       was  published in January 1953 embodying new  amended  rules       regarding  recruitment, conditions of service and duties	 of       patwaris.   This brought matters to a head and there  was  a       special	session of the Association at Lucknow on  the  26th       January 1953.  The Association passed resolutions protesting       against	the  revised  Land Records  Manual.   It  was  also       resolved	 at  the special session that all  patwaris  should       submit	their  resignations  on	 the  2nd  February   1953,       requesting  that they may be relieved of their work  by	the       4th  March 1953 after which date they will treat	 themselves       as free from all       360       obligations  to work under the Government.  In pursuance	 of       that  resolution, about 26,000 patwaris in the whole of	the       State resigned.	There is no doubt that by submitting  their       resignations en masse the patwaris betrayed a lack of  sense       of  discipline.	 By doing so, they apparently  intended	 to       paralyse	 the whole revenue administration in the State	and       to  coerce the Government to accept their demands; but  they       did  not	 envisage the situation that the  Government  might       accept their resignations and take them at their own  words,       The Government decided to accept their resignations and	the       petitioners  were  relieved of their duties soon	 after	the       submission of their resignations, before the 4th March 1953.       On  the very next day, the 5th March,  Government  announced       the creation of a new service of "Lekhpals" and proceeded to       organise that service by recruiting the new personnel  which       included	 most  of  the old patwaris.  The  new	cadre  also       included all those patwaris whose record of service was free       from  blemishes	and who had withdrawn  their  resignations.       Out  of	the  petitioners  also as many	as  132	 have  been       absorbed	 in  the new cadre of Lekhpals and  many  more	are       likely to be absorbed in the service of Government.  Thus it       appears	 that	Government  have  been	 giving	  a   locus       poenitentiae  to those of the ex-patwaris who have  realized       their  mistake in joining the agitation aforesaid  and  thus       trying to force the bands of Government.       The petitioners' grievance is that they have been  prevented       from   re-entering   the	  Government   service	 upon	the       reorganisation  of the cadre under the new Dame.	 But it	 is       clear  that  the Government are within their rights  to	lay       down certain qualifications for the new recruits.  They	are       entitled	 to exclude those persons who have betrayed a  lack       of proper sense of discipline.  It cannot therefore be  said       that  the  Government have denied an  equal  opportunity	 to       those  who are equal in all respects.  It appears  that	the       Government have not permanently filled all the vacancies	 in       the new cadre.  Those of the petitioners who are prepared to       accept the discipline of Government service may approach the       proper authorities       361       through	the proper channel and we have no doubt that  their       cases will receive sympathetic consideration at the hands of       the  Government,	 consistently  with  the  demands  of	the       exigencies of public service.       Our attention was particularly invited to the new scheme	 of       recruitment as laid down in the Government orders of the 5th       March  which contained the directions that all patwaris	who       bad  not	 resigned  and	who had	 not  reached  the  age	 of       superannuation would be absorbed, that the patwaris who	had       resigned	 but  had withdrawn their resignations by  the	4th       March 1953 would also be absorbed and that of those who	had       resigned	 and  whose resignations had  been  accepted,  only       those  will be absorbed who had an excellent record of  work       and  who	 had  not taken an active part	in  the	 agitation.       Besides	those,	fresh recruits also were to  be	 taken	in.       With reference to those directions it was contended that the       petitioners who came within the category excluded from reap-       pointment  had  really  been  denied  equal  opportunity	 of       appointment  as	Lekhpals and that thus article	16  of	the       Constitution  was infringed.  In our opinion, it is open	 to       the   appointing	 authority  to	lay  down   the	  requisite       qualifications for recruitment to Government service and	 it       is  open	 to that authority to lay  down	 such  prerequisite       conditions  of  appointment  as would be	 conducive  to	the       maintenance   of	  proper  discipline   amongst	 Government       servants.  If persons already under Government employment on       part-time  basis had shown themselves not to be amenable	 to       proper  discipline  in Government offices, it  was  open	 to       Government  not	to appoint such persons	 to  the  permanent       cadre of Lekhpals because such persons could not be said	 to       be  as  efficient  as those who	bad  excellent	records	 of       service	and  had shown greater sense of	 responsibility	 to       their  employers.   Article  16 of the  Constitution  is	 an       instance of the application of the general rule of  equality       laid  down  in  article 14, with special	 reference  to	the       opportunity   for  appointment  and  employment	under	the       Government.   Like all other employers, Government are  also       entitled to pick and choose from amongst a large number of       362       candidates  offering  themselves for  employment	 under	the       Government.       As  already indicated, the old patwaris held part-time  jobs       under the Government.  The new cadre of Lekhpals is intended       to  re-organise	a similar service on  a	 more  satisfactory       basis  both from the point of view of the Government and	 of       the  employees  themselves.   Under  the	 new  scheme,	the       Lekhpals	 are  intended	to be whole-time  servants  of	the       Government  on a considerably higher scale of pay  and  with       better prospects subject, of course, to the Government  Ser-       vants  Conduct  Rules.  If the Government  have	decided	 to       exclude	all  those who had proved themselves  as  part-time       servants	 of  the  Government to be lacking in  a  sense	 of       discipline  and	of responsibility, it cannot be	 said  that       they  had been denied equal opportunity of  appointment	and       employment  under the Government.  Government have not  laid       down  rules excluding any particular group of  persons  from       being candidates for appointment.  They bad only issued	de-       partmental  instructions not to employ those who bad  not  a       satisfactory  record of service in the past.  Selection	for       appointment  in	Government  service  has got  to  be  on  a       competitive basis and those whose past service has been free       from  blemish can certainly be said to be  better  qualified       for Government service than those whose record was not  free       from any blemish.  The matter thus stands on a basis similar       to where the Government may make it a condition precedent to       promotion  to a higher rank in the same cadre of	 Government       service	that only those who had a very satisfactory  record       in  the	past would be considered for  promotion.   It  must       therefore  be  held  that the  petitioners  have	 failed	 to       substantiate  their  contention that they  had  been  denied       equality of opportunity as contemplated by article 16 of the       Constitution.       After   moving	this  Court  under  article   32   of	the       Constitution,  most of the petitioners and many	others,	 in       all  1,352 in number, also made an application  for  special       leave  to  appeal (being Special Leave Petition No.  426	 of       1955)  from  the judgment and orders of the  High  Court	 of       Judicature at Allahabad dated the       363       24th  August 1954 passed in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No.	 45       of 1954, after their application for leave to appeal to this       Court had been dismissed by that Court's order dated the 5th       August  1955.  This petition was not filed within  the  time       limited by the rules of this Court and on their own  showing       there  was  a delay of 44 days in filing	 the  petition	for       special	leave.	 The only ground urged in  support  of	the       application   for   condonation	of   delay   (being   Civil       Miscellaneous Petition No. 1402 of 1955) is that they bad to       collect money from amongst a large number of petitioners who       were interested in the case.  In our opinion, that is not  a       sufficient ground for condoning the delay.       In  the	result, both the petition under article 32  of	the       Constitution  and the petition for special leave	 to  appeal       are dismissed.  There will be no order as to costs.