PETITIONER:DULICHAND LAKSHMINARAYAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,NAGPUR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/02/1956BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANBENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMACITATION: 1956 AIR  354		  1956 SCR  154ACT:Indian lncome Tax Act,1922(Act XI of 1922), s. 26-A and 2(6-B)-Indian  Partnership	Act, 1932 (Act IX of  1932),  s.  4-Registration  of  an unregistered firm constituted  under  adeed of partnership-Five constituent parties-Three  separatefirms constituted under three separate deeds of partnership-Signatures  on deed by three different persons on behalf  ofthree  firms  respectively-Fourth party	 a  Hindu  undividedfamily of which karta put the signature on deed-Fifth  partyan individual-'Whether registration of such a firm competentunder	a.26-Aof  Indian  Income  Tax  Act,  1922-Firm	 andpartnership-Definitions of-Indian Partnership Act, 1932,  s.4-Firm-Firm name-PartnershipPartner-Meanings of-Partnership,general	 concept of-Word "persons" ins.	 4-Meaning  of-Firm-Whether	 a  person  and	 whether  entitled  to	enter	intopartnership  with another firm or Hindu undivided family  orindividuals.HEADNOTE:In  connection with the assessment for the  assessment	year1949-1950 of Dulichand Lakshminarayan an unregistered  firm,an application was made under s. 26-A of the Indian  Income-Tax  Act, 1922 before Income-Tax Officer, Raigarh,  for	 itsregistration   as  a  firm  constituted	 under	a  Deed	  ofPartnership  dated  17th  February, 1947.   In	the  openingparagraph of the deed the names and descriptions of the fiveparties	 thereto were set out.	The signatures of five	per-sons were appended on behalf of five parties respectively atthe foot of the deed.It  was	 common	 ground that out  of  the  five	 constituentparties,   D.L.,  J.H.,	 and  L.C.,  were   separate   firmsconstituted under three separate deeds of partnership.	 Thethree  different  persons who signed the deed on  behalf  ofthose  three  firms  respectively  were	 partners  in  theirrespective  firms.  The fourth party M.B. was the name of  abusiness carried on by a Hindu undivided family of which theperson	who signed it was the karta.  The fifth	 party	M.G.was an individual.The  Income-Tax	 Officer  rejected the	application  on	 theground that Dulichand Lakshminarayan, constituted under	 thedeed dated 17th February 1947, consisted of three firms, oneHindu undivided family business and one individual and	thata  firm or a Hindu undivided family could not as such  enterinto a partnership with other firms or individual,155The   assessee's   appeal   to	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner  was  dismissed  but it  succeeded	 before	 theIncome	Tax Appellate Tribunal who directed registration  ofthe firm.  On the application of the Commissioner of  IncomeTax under s. 66(1) of the Income Tax Act the High Court heldthat on the facts of the case the assessee was not  entitledto  registration  under s. 26-A of the Income Tax  Act.	  Onappeal to the Supreme Court:Held  that a perusal of the deed would indicate	 beyond	 anydoubt  that the intention of the parties quite	clearly	 wasthat  each  of	the  three constituent	firms  and  not	 theparticular  member of each of the said three firms  who	 hadsigned	the  deed  for his respective firm  was	 to  be	 thepartner in the bigger firm constituted under this deed.The  contention that only the five individual  executant  ofthe  deed  were the partners of the newly created  firm	 wasagainst	 the  tenor of the deed and  was  therefore  withoutforce.Section	 26-A  of the Indian Income Tax Act  postulates	 theexistence  of a firm.  The Act, however, does  not  indicatewhat a firm signifies or how it is to be constituted.Section 2(6-B) of the Act clearly provides, inter alia, that"firm" and "partnership" have the same meaning	respectivelyas they have in the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.Section	 4  of the Indian Partnership Act (which  gives	 thedefinitions  of "partnership", "partner", "firm"  and  "firmname")	clearly	 requires  the presence	 of  three  elementsnamely	(1) that there must be an agreement entered into  bytwo or more persons: (2) that the agreement must be to sharethe profits of a business; and (3) that the business must becarried on by all or any of those persons actingfor  all.The general concept of partnership according to both systemsoflaw, English  as  well as Indian, is that a firm is  not  anentity or"person"  in law but is merely an association of individualsand afirm name is only a collective name of those individuals whoconstitute  the firm.  In other words a firm name is  merelyan  expression, only a compendious mode of  designating	 thepersons who have agreed to carry on business in partnership.The  word "persons" in s. 4 of the Indian  Partnership	Act,which  has  replaced  s. 239 of	 the  Indian  Contract	Act,contemplates only natural or artificial, i.e., legal personsand  therefore	a firm is not a person and as  such  is	 notentitled  to enter into a partnership with another  firm  orHindu  undivided  family  or  individual  and  there  is  noquestion  of registration of a partnership purporting to  beone  between three firms, a Hindu undivided family  businessand  an individual as a firm unders. 26-A of the Act, as  inthe present case.Jabalpur  Ice Manufacturing Association v.  Commissioner  ofIncome Tax, Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal ([1965] 27 I.T.R. 88),Exparte Oorbett, In re Shad, ([1880] L.R. 14 Cb. 122,  126),Bhag-156wanji  Morarji Goculdas v. Alembic Chemical Works  Co.	Ltd.and  others (A.I.R. 1948 P.C. 100), Commissioner  of  IncomeTax,  West Bengal v. A. W. Figgies & Co. and others  ([1954]S.C.R. 171), and In re Jai Dayal Madan Gopal, ([1933] I.T.R.186), referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 195 of 1955.Appeal	from  the judgment and order dated the 30th  day  ofDecember  1953	of the Nagpur High  Court  in  MiscellaneousCivil Case No. 35 of 1952.Kirpa Ram Bajaj, Hardyal Hardy, with him) for the appellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India (G.  N.  Jo8hiand R. H. Dhebar, with him) for the respondent.1956.  February 17.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyDAS  C.J.-This	is  an appeal from the	judgment  and  orderpassed	by  a  Bench of the Nagpur High Court  on  the	30thDecember,  1953 in Miscellaneous Civil Case No. 35 of  1952,whereby the Bench answered in the negative the question thathad  been  referred  to them by	 the  Income  Tax  AppellateTribunal,  Bombay under section 66(1) of the  Indian  IncomeTax Act, 1922 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).In  connection with the assessment for the  assessment	year1949/1950  of Dulichand Laxminarayan, an unregistered  firm,an application was made under section 26-A of the Act beforethe  Income Tax Officer, Raigarh for its registration  as  afirm constituted under a Deed of Partnership dated the	17thFebruary  1947.	 In the opening paragraph of that  deed	 thenames  and descriptions of the parties thereto were set	 outin the following words:--  "We, Dulichand Laxminarayan Firm, through Malik  (partner)Laxmi Narayan son of Laljimal, Laxmi Narayan Chandulal	Firmthrough	  Malik	 (partner)  Chandulal  son  of	 Nanakchand,Mulkhram Bholaram Firm through Malik (partner) Tekchand	 sonof Bholaram, Jeramdas Hiralal Firm through157Malik  (partner)  Beharilal  son of  Asharam  and  MangatraiGanpatram   through   Malik  (partner)	Ganpatram   son	  ofMangatrai, Agarwar Bani, aged 50, 40, 28, 25, 45 residing atRaigarh are partners in equal shares - with effect from 5-1-1946  -in  the	firm Dulichand Laxminarayan  in	 whose	nameImporters'  Licence  of cloth is issued	 for  Raigarh  Stategroup Raigarh, Jaipur Saraigarh, Udeypur and Sakti State, onthe  following terms and  conditions........................Then  follow  15 clauses containing the terms on  which	 thepartnership business was agreed to be done.  At the foot  ofthe deed signatures were appended in the following order onebelow the other:-     Laxminarayan   for	 Dulichand Laxmi Narayan.     Beharilal for  Jairam Das Hiralal.     Ganpatram for  Mangatrai Ganpatram.     Tekchand  for  Mukhram Bholaram.     Chandulal for  Laxminarayan Chandulal.It is common ground that out of the five constituent partiesDulichand  Laxminarayan, Jairamdas Hiralal and	LaxminarayanChandulal   are	 separate  firms  constituted  under   threeseparate   deeds  of  partnership  and	that   Laxminarayan,Beharilal  and Chandulal, who signed the deed on  behalf  ofthose  firms are partners in their respective firms.   Thereis  also no dispute that Mukbram Bholaram is the name  of  abusiness  carried  on by a Hindu undivided family  of  whichTekchand,  who has signed for it, is the Karta.	 It is	alsoconceded  that	Mangatrai Ganpatrai is an  individual.	 Theapplication  for  registration was signed by the  same	fiveindividuals who bad signed the deed of partnership. Finding  that Dulichand Laxminarayan constituted under	 theaforesaid  Deed of Partnership dated the 17th February	1947consisted  of  three  firms,  one  Hindu  undivided   familybusiness and one individual and taking the view that a	firmor  a Hindu undivided family could not as such enter into  apartnership with other firms or individuals, the  Income-TaxOfficer held that the said Dulichand Laxminarayan could	 notbe registered as a firm under section 26-A and21158accordingly    on  the	26th February 1950 he  rejected	 theapplication.On  appeal  the Appellate Assistant Commissioner  held	thatwhen a firm entered into a partnership with another firm theresult	in  law	 was that all the partners of  each  of	 thesmaller	 firms	became	partners of  the  bigger  firm	and,therefore,  there was no legal flaw in the  constitution  ofthe  bigger  firm of Dulichand Laxminarayan.   He,  however,took the view that, as the application for registration	 hadnot also been signed personally by all the partners of thosethree  smaller firms as required by section 26-A of the	 Actand rule 2 of the Rules framed under section 59 of the	Act,there	was  no	 valid	application  for  registration	 andconsequently  the firm could not be registered.	 The  resultwas  that  on the 5th August 1950  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner dismissed the appeal. The assessee appealed to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal.The   Tribunal	 agreed	  with	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner that a valid partnership had been brought	intoexistence  but	reversed  the  decision	 of  the   AppellateAssistant  Commissioner on the ground that as all  the	fiveexecutants  of	the  deed had  signed  the  application	 forregistration,  the requirements of law had  been  satisfied.Accordingly  on	 the 12th June 1951  the  Tribunal  directedregistration of the firm.  On  the  application of the Commissioner  of	Income	Tax,Madhya	Pradesh the Tribunal under section 66(1) of the	 Actdrew up a Statement of Case and submitted to the High  Courtof Nagpur the following question of law, namely:-Whether on the facts of the Case the assessee is entitled toregistration under section 26-A of the Income Tax Act?The  reference	came up for hearing before a  Bench  of	 theNagpur	High  Court on the 30th	 December  1953.   Followingtheir	own  judgment  delivered  earlier  in  the  day	  inMiscellaneous  Civil  Case  No. 189 of	1951,  Jabalpur	 IceManufacturing  Association  v. Commissioner of	Income	Tax,Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal(1),(1)  [1955] 27 I.T.R. 88.159the  High  Court  answered  the	 referred  question  in	 thenegative.   In	view,  however, of  the	 importance  of	 thequestion  involved  in the reference the High  Court,  undersection	 66-A(2) of the Act, gave a certificate	 of  fitnessfor appeal to this Court.  Hence the present appeal.Section	 26-A  of the Act under which  the  application	 forregistration was made provides as follows:- (1) Application  may be made to the Income-tax	 Officer  onbehalf	of  any	 firm, constituted under  an  instrument  ofpartnership   specifying  the  individual  shares   of	 thepartners, for registration for the purposes of this Act	 andof any other enactment for the time being in force  relatingto income-tax or supertax. (2) The  application  shall  be  made	by  such  person  orpersons,   and	at  such  times	 and  shall   contain	suchparticulars and shall be in such form, and be varied in suchmanner, as may be prescribed; and it shall be dealt with  bythe Income-tax Officer in such manner as may be prescribed.The  relevant  portion	of rule 2 of the  Rules	 made  undersection 59 of 'the Act runs thus: -  "Any	firm constituted under an Instrument of	 Partnershipspecifying the individual shares of the partners may,  underthe provisions of section 26-A of the Indian Income-tax Act,1922  (hereinafter in these rules referred to as  the  Act),register  with	the  Income-tax	 Officer,  the	 particularscontained in the said Instrument on application made in thisbehalf. Such  application shall be signed by all the partners	(notbeing minors) personally, or.............. At the hearing before us it was at one time suggested	thatthe  partners of the firm consisted of the five	 individualswho had signed the deed and each of them had an' equal shareas specified therein and that as all the said five  partnershad signed the application for registration the requirementsof  section  26-A  of  the Act and rule	 2  had	 been  fullycomplied with -and the assessee should have been  registeredas  a  firm for the purposes of the Act.  A perusal  of	 thedeed and par-160ticularly the portions hereinbefore set out indicate  beyondany  doubt that the intention of the parties  quite  clearlywas  that  each of the three constituent firms and  not	 theparticular  member of each of the said three firms  who	 hadsigned	the  deed  for his respective firm  was	 to  be	 thepartner in the bigger firm constituted under this deed.	 Thecontention  that only the five individual executants of	 thedeed  were  the	 partners of the  newly	 created  firm	runscounter	 to  the apparent tenor of the deed  and  cannot  beentertained.  Indeed learned counsel appearing in support ofthis  appeal  did not press this point.	 The  main  argumentbefore	us  has	 centred round the  larger  question  as  towhether a firm as such can be a partner in another firm.  Section  26-A	 of  the Act  quoted  above  postulates	 theexistence  of  a  firm, for otherwise  no  question  of	 itsregistration can possibly arise.  The Act, however, does notindicate  what	a  firm	 signifies  or	how  it	 is  to	  beconstituted.  Indeed  section  2(6B)  of  the  Act   clearlyprovides,inter alia, that "firm" and "partnership" have	 thesame  meanings	respectively  as they  have  in	 the  IndianPartnership  Act, 1932.	 We have, therefore,, to go  to	 thelast  mentioned Act to ascertain what a firm is and  how  itcan be created.  Turning, then, to the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 we cometo section 4 which defines 'partnership", "partner",  "firm"and "firm name" in the words following:-  4. Definition	 of  "Partnership",  "Partner",	 "firm"	 and"firm  name:-"Partnersbip" is the relation  between  personswho  have agreed to share the profits of a business  carriedon by all or any of them acting for all.  Persons who have entered into partnership with one anotherare  called  individually  "partners"  and  collectively  "afirm", and the name under which their business is carried onis called the "firm name".  This	section	 clearly  requires  the	 presence  of  threeelements, namely (1) that there must be an agreement enteredinto by two or more persons; (2) that the agreement must  beto share the profits of a business;161and  (3) that the business must be carried on by all or	 anyof  those  persons  acting  for	 all.	According  to	thisdefinition "persons" who have entered into partnership	withone  another are collectively called a "firm" and  the	nameunder which their business is carried on is called the "firmname".	 The first question that arises is as to  whether  afirm  as such can enter into an agreement with another	firmor  individual.	 The answer to the question would depend  onwhether a firm can be called a "person".  There	 is  no	 definition  of the  word  "person"  in	 thePartnership Act.  The General Clauses Act, 1897, however, bysection	 3  (42)  provides that "person	 shall	include	 anycompany	 or  association  or  body  of	individuals  whetherincorporated  or  not".	 The firm is not a  company  but  iscertainly  an  association  or	body  of  individuals.	 Theargument  is  that  applying that  definition  to  the	word"persons"  occurring in section 4, one can at once say	thatan  unincorporated  association or body of persons,  like  afirm,	can  enter  into  a  partnership  just	as  by	 theapplication  of that definition to section 4 of	 the  IndianPartnership  Act a company can become a partner in  a  firm.The  definitions given in section 3 of the  General  ClausesAct, 1897, however, apply when there is nothing repugnant inthe  subject or context.  It is difficult to say that  thereis  anything  repugnant in the context of section  4  itselfwhich will exclude the application of that definition to theword  "Persons" occurring in section 4. Is  there,  however,anything repugnant in the subject of partnership law,  whichwill  exclude the application of that definition to  section4?  As pointed out in Lindley on Partnership, llth Edition, atpage  153,  merchants  and lawyers  have  different  notionsrespecting  the	 nature	 of  a	firm.	Commercial  men	 andaccountants  are  apt to look upon a firm in  the  light  inwhich  lawyers	look  upon a corporation, i.e.,	 as  a	bodydistinct  from	the members composing it.   In	other  wordsmerchants  are	used  to  regard a  firm,  for	purposes  ofbusiness,  as  having a separate and  independent  existenceapart  from  its  partners.  In some  systems  of  law	thisseparate per-162sonality of a firm apart from its members has received	fulland formal recognition, as, for instance, in Scotland.	Thatis,  however,  not the English Common Law  conception  of  afirm.  English Lawyers do not recognize a firm as an entity,distinct from the members composing it.	 Our partnership lawis based on English Law and we have also adopted the notionsof English lawyers as regards a partnership firm.  Some	of  the mercantile usages relating to a	 firm  have,however, found their way into the law of partnership.	Thusin  keeping accounts, merchants habitually show a firm as  adebtor	to each partner for what he brings into	 the  commonstock and each partner is shown as a debtor to the firm	 forall that he takes out of that stock.  But under the  EnglishCommon Law, a firm, not being a legal entity, could not	 sueor  be	sued in the firm name or sue or be sued by  its	 ownpartner,  for one cannot sue oneself.  Later on	 this  rigidlaw  of	 procedure, however, gave way to  considerations  ofcommercial  convenience	 and permitted a firm to sue  or  besued  in the firm name, as if it were a corporate body	(seeCode of Civil Procedure, Order XXX corresponding to rules ofthe  English  Supreme  Court Order XLVIII-A).	The  law  ofprocedure  has gone to the length of allowing a firm to	 sueor  be sued by another firm having some common	partners  oreven  to sue or be sued by one or more of its  own  partners(see  Order XXX, rule 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure),  asif the firm is an entity distinct from its partners.   Againin   taking  partnership  accounts  and	  in   administeringpartnership assets, the law has, to some extent, adopted themercantile view and the liabilities of the firm are regardedas the liabilities of the partners only in case they  cannotbe  met and discharged by the firm out of its  assets.	 Thecreditors  of the firm are, in the first place, paid out  ofthe partnership assets and if there is any surplus then	 theshare of each partner in such surplus is applied in  paymentof his separate debts, if any, or paid to him.	 Conversely,separate  property  of	a partner is applied  first  in	 thepayment	 of  his separate debts and the surplus, if  any  isutilised in meeting the163debts of the firm (see section 49 of the Indian	 PartnershipAct, 1932).  In the Indian Income Tax Act itself a firm	 is,by section 3, which is the charging section, made a unit  ofassessment.  It  is clear from the foregoing discussion that  the	law,English as well as Indian, has, for some specific  purposes,some  of  which	 are referred to above,	 relaxed  its  rigidnotions	 and extended a limited per,personality of  a  firm.Nvertheless,  the  general concept  of	partnership,  firmlyestablished in both systems of Law, still is that a firm  isnot  an	 entity	 or  "person"  in  law	but  is	 merely	  anassociation  of	 individuals  and  a firm  name	 is  only  acollective  name  of those individuals	who  constitute	 thefirm.  In other words, a firm name is merely an	 expression,only a compendious mode of designating the persons who	haveagreed	to carry on business in partnership.   According  tothe  -principles  of English jurisprudence,  which  we	haveadopted for the purposes of determining legal rights  "thereis   no	 such  thing  as  a  firm  known  to  the  law"	  aswas said by James, L. J. in Ex parte Corbett, In re Shand(1)In these circumstances to import the definition of the	word"person"  occurring in section 3(42) of the General  ClausesAct, 1897 into section 4 of the Indian Partnership Act will,according  to  lawyers,	 English  or  Indian,,	be   totallyrepugnant to the subject of partnership law as they know andunderstand it to be.  It is in this view of the matter	thatit has been consistently held in this country that a firm assuch is not entitled to enter into partnership with  anotherfirm or individuals.  It is not necessary to refer in detailto  those  decisions many of which will be  found  cited  inJabalpur  Ice Manufacturing Association v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  Madhya  Pradesh(2)	 to which  a  reference	 hasalready	 been  made.   We need only refer  to  the  case  ofBhagwanji Morarji Goculdas v. Alembic Chemical Works Co. Ltdand  others(3),	 where it has been laid down  by  the  PrivyCouncil that Indian Law has not given legal personality to afirm apart from the partners.  This(1) [1880] L.R. 14 Ch. 122, 126.  (2) [1955] 27 I.T.R. 88.		 (3) A.I.R. 1948 P.C. 100.164view finds support from and is implicit in the	observationsmade  by this Court in the Commissioner of Income-Tax,	WestBengal v. A. W. Figgies & Co. and others(1).  In  Jai Dayal Madan Gopal(2), Sulaiman C. J. followed	 theCalcutta decisions and was not prepared to dissent from	 theview  that  the word "person" in section 239 of	 the  IndianContract  Act,	1872  should not be  interpreted  so  as  toinclude	 a  firm.   The	 learned  Chief	 Justice,   however,expressed  the view that it was difficult to say that  therewas   anything	in  section  239  itself  which	  made	 theapplication to that section of the definition of "person" asgiven  in  General Clauses Act in any  way  repugnant.	 Thelearned Chief Justice, however, does not appear to have con-sidered whether there was anything repugnant in the  subjectof  partnership law, as it prevails in this  country,  whichoperates to exclude the application of that deanition to theword  "person"	occurring  in  section	239  of	 the  IndianContract Act.  In our opinion, the word "Persons" in section4 of the Indian Partnership Act, which has replaced  section239 of the Indian Contract Act, contemplates only natural orartificial,  i.e., legal persons and for the reasons  statedabove, a firm is not a "person" and as such is not  entitledto  enter  into	 a partnership with another  firm  or  Hinduundivided family or individual.	 In this view of the  matterthere can arise no question of registration of a partnershippurporting to be one between three firms, a Hindu  undividedfamily	business and an individual as a firm  under  section26-A of the Act.  The learned Advocate for the appellant then urges that  atany  rate the partnership was not illegal, for there was  nolegal  impediment in the way of all the members of  all	 thethree constituent firms and the karta of the Hindu undividedfamily	and  the individual entering into an  agreement	 andthat, therefore, a valid partnership was constituted by	 thedeed of partnership under consideration.  Assuming that thiscontention is possible in view of the language which(1) [1954] S.C.R. 171; 1953 I.T.R. 405.(2) [1983] I.T.R. 186.165has  been used in this deed for describing the parties,	 theposition of the appellant will not improve, for in order  tobe entitled to the benefit of registration under the Act, itwill  have  to be shown that the shares	 of  all  individualpartners are specified in the deed and that all the partnershave  personally signed the application for registration  asrequired  by section 26-A of the Act read with Rule  2.	 Thedeed specifies that each of the five constituent parties  isentitled  to  an  equal, i.e., 1/5 share  but  it  does	 notspecify	 the  individual shares of each of the	partners  ofeach  of the three smaller constituent firms.	Further	 allthe  members  of  those	 three firms  have  not	 signed	 theapplication  for registration personally.  It is  said	thateach  of  the three persons who executed the  deed  for	 thethree smaller firms must be regarded as having the authorityof  their co-partners in their respective firms to sign	 theapplication   for  registration	 just  as  they	 had   theirauthority to execute the deed itself for them.	Even if theyhad  such authority-as to which there is no evidence at	 allon  the	 record-the  section and rule 2	 require  that	eachpartner	 (not  being  minors) must  sign  personally.	Thatadmittedly   has  not  been  done,  and.,   therefore,	 theapplication  was  not in proper form.  In our  judgment	 theanswer	given by the High Court to the question is  correct.This appeal must, therefore, be dismissed with costs.22166