PETITIONER:RAJA BAHADUR MOTILAL POONA MILLS	Vs.RESPONDENT:TUKARAM PIRAJI MASALE.DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/10/1956BENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDABENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR   73		  1956 SCR  939ACT:Industrial Dispute-Strike-Change in the existing  system  ofworking-Workers	 objecting  as illegal change and  going  onstrike--Strike, whether illegal-Bombay Industrial  RelationsAct, 1946 (Bom.	 XI of 1947), s. 97(1)(c).HEADNOTE:By s. 97(1)(c) of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946:"A  strike shall be illegal if it is commenced or  continuedonly  for the reason that the employer has not	carried	 outthe provisions of any standing order or has made an  illegalchange".The  management	 of the appellant Mill desiring	 to  make  achange	in the existing system of working started making  anexperiment  by asking a few workmen who had  volunteered  towork  at the rate of four looms to a weaver for a period  oftwo  months.   The other workers objected that this  was  anillegal	 change on the ground that the management could	 notlegally introduce any change without first going through theprocedure  prescribed by the Act, and went on  strike.	 Thequestion was whether the strike was illegal.Held,  that as the workmen had gone on strike only  for	 thereason	that the change or experiment made by the  appellantwas an illegal change, their action came within the  expressterms of B. 97(1)(c) of the Act and the strike was illegal.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 323 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and order dated July 2, 1953 of theBombay	High Court in Special Civil Application No.  159  of1953.R.   J. Kolah and A. C. Dave, for the appellant.H.   R.	 Gokhale, K. R. Chaudhury and M. R. Rangaswamy,	 forrespondent No. 2.1956.  October 31.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby GOVINDA  MENON	 J.-On	July 20, 1954,	the  High  Court  ofJudicature at Bombay granted a certificate of fitness  underArt. 133(1) (c) of the Constitution940that  the judgment of that court dated July 2, 1953,  passedin Special Civil Application No. 159 of 1953, was a fit	 onefor appeal to the Supreme Court as it involved a substantialquestion   of	law,  and  it  is  in  pursuance   of	suchcertification  that  the  above appeal is  now	before	thiscourt.	A brief resume of the facts and circumstances, whichled to the application for a writ of certiorari in the	HighCourt,	becomes necessary for a correct appreciation of	 thequestion  of  law involved and may,  therefore,	 be  shortlystated.The  appellant	which  may hereafter,  for  the	 purpose  ofconvenience,  be  called "The Mill", is	 a  limited  companyowning and possessing a Cotton Textile Spinning and  WeavingMill situated in Poona, employing a large number of  workmenwho  have  a  union of theirs. The  first  respondent  is  aworkman	 employed by the Mill and the second  respondent  isthe Poona Girni Kamagar Union of which the first  respondentis  a  member.	Respondents 3 to 5 were	 formally  added  asparties in the first in-stance, but their names were  struckoff as unnecessary at the time of the hearing.The  appellant was running 580 looms, for working which	 oneweaver had been allotted at the rate of two looms; and	whenthings were in that state on August 29, 1951, the Managementissued	a notice to the effect that from September 1,  1951,it was desired to carry on an experiment of four looms to  aweaver for a period of 2 months, on 16 looms.  If at the endof that period or before the expiry of the same it was foundthat  the  working  was	 successful,  the  Management  wouldintroduce  the	scheme	after giving the  notice  of  changerequired  under	 the  Act.  The object of  this	 notice	 wasostensibly to introduce rationalization or rather efficiencysystem of work, if and when the suggested experiment  provedsuccessful.   As  a result of this notice  on  September  4,1951, the Secretary of the Union wrote to the Manager of theappellant  Mill intimating that under the Bombay  IndustrialRelations Act the Management could not legally introduce anychange	in  the existing system ,of  working  without  firstgiving notice of the change941in  the prescribed form to the representatives of the  Unionand  workers and without going through the  other  procedureprescribed  by	the  Act; and the  Management  were  furtherinformed  that	if they insisted in carrying on	 the  changeillegally,  the	 workmen would be free to  move	 the  propercourts.	 The notice also stated that the introduction of thenew  system would affect the workers' wages and cause  greathardship; and that if anything untoward happened, the  blamewould be wholly on the management, as it would be impossiblefor the Union to control the workers in the matter.Four workers volunteered to work the experiment and  startedworking	 accordingly on the 16 looms on September  6,  1951,whereupon the other workmen raised an objection and the fourloyal  workmen	were  prevented	 from  continuing  with	 theexperimental work.- But the Management did not withdraw	 thenotice and none except the 4, was required by the Managementto take part in the experiment.	 The second shift among	 theworkmen also refused to work with the result that there	 wasa complete strike in the Mills between the 6th and the	26thof September, 1951.On  September  10, 1951 the appellant filed  an	 applicationunder sections 78 and 97 of the Bombay Industrial  RelationsAct,  1946  (Bom.   XI of 1947),  praying  that	 the  strikeresorted  to  by  the weavers working  on  both	 the  shiftscommencing  on	September 6, 1951, and continuing  till	 thepresentation of the application be declared illegal being incontravention  of  the	provisions  of	the  said  Act.	  OnSeptember  16, 1951 the Vice-President of the  Mill  MazdoorSabha filed a written statement in answer to the above	com-plaint	stating	 that  the workers did not  strike  work  incontravention  of  the Bombay Industrial Relations  Act	 andthat the weavers never refused to do their proper and  usualwork  but  refused only to do the illegal work	insisted  onthem  by the employers; in other words, they were  agreeableto  have two looms per weaver and not to work the  attemptedexperiment.   Within three days of the filing of  the  abovewritten942statement,  two	 of the workers filed an  application  undersections  78 and 98 of the Bombay Industrial  Relations	 Actbefore the same Labour Court against the Management  prayingfor  a	declaration that the action of	the  Management	 hadresulted in an illegal lockout in contravention of the	Act,and, therefore, the Management should be ordered to withdrawthe  said  illegal change.  The appellant  filed  a  writtenstatement  countering  the  allegations	 contained  in	 theapplication  for the declaration of an illegal	lockout	 and'stated	 that their action was not in contravention  of	 theBombay Industrial Relations Act, as it did not constitute anillegal change.The  Labour  Court  at Bombay heard  both  the	applicationstogether  and by a combined order dated September 26,  1951,held that since the Management had not compelled any one  toaccept	any  work, their action could not  be-considered  anillegal lockout.  At the same time, it held that the workersdid  not create a situation amounting to an illegal  strike.The  result of these findings was the negation of the  grantof the prayers contained in the respective applications, butin  addition,  the  court declared that the  action  of	 theManagement was an illegal change and, therefore, the  noticewhereby the experiment was attempted to be tried, should  bewithdrawn.The   workers  were  content  with  the	 outcome  of   theirapplication but the Management having been aggrieved by	 thedeclaration  that  their  action  amounted  to	an  'illegalchange' filed an appeal before the Labour Appellate Tribunalat  Bombay (Appeal No. 293 of 1951) upon which	the  learnedJudges	of the Labour Appellate Tribunal took the view	thatthe strike by the workmen was illegal.	They also  concludedthat  there  was no lockout on the part of  the	 Management.That being the case, the order of the Labour Court declaringthat  there  was an illegal change was set  aside  with	 thedeclaration that the strike in question was illegal with thenecessary consequences.I  In  order to get the said order of the  Labour  AppellateTribunal quashed, an application for a writ943of  certiorari under Arts. 226 and 227 of  the	Constitutionwas filed by the two of the workers before the High Court ofBombay	where Chagla C.J. and Dixit J., took the  view	thatsince the decision of the Appellate Tribunal was  erroneous,the  same  should  be  quashed, with  the  result  that	 thedecision  of  the  Labour  Court was  upheld.	It  is	thisjudgment  that is under appeal before us as a result of	 thecertificate granted by the High Court of Bombay.A  reading  of	the  relevant portions	of  the	 statute  isnecessary to find out whether the order appealed against  isjustified or not.  The Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946was  enacted  to  regulate the	relations  of  employer	 andemployees,   to	 make  provisions  for	the  settlement	  ofindustrial  disputes  and  to  provide	for  certain   otherpurposes.  This statute repealed the Bombay Trade  'DisputesConciliation  Act, 1934 and the Bombay	Industrial  DisputesAct,  1938.   Section 3(8) defines "change"  as	 meaning  analteration in an industrial matter and sub-s. (15)  containsa  definition  of  'illegal change' as	meaning	 an  illegalchange within the meaning of sub-ss. (4) & (5) ofs.   46 which are in the following terms:-"(1) ..........................................(2) ...........................................(3) ...........................................(4)Any	change	made in contravention of the  provisions  ofsub-sections (1), (2) and (3) shall be illegal.(5)Failure  to carry out the terms of any settlement,  award(registered  agreement or effective order or decision  of  aWage  Board),  (a  Labour  Court  or  the  Industrial  Courtaffecting,  industrial	matters) shall be deemed  to  be  anillegal change".Section 42 which speaks of change may also be quoted so	 faras  it	is  relevant  for  our	purpose:     "(I)  Any	employer intending to effect any  change  inrespect	 of  an industrial matter specified in	Schedule  IIshall give notice of such -intention in the prescribed	formto the representative of employees.  He shall send a copy ofsuch  notice to the Chief Conciliator, the  Conciliator	 forthe industry concerned for the944local area, the Registrar, the Labour Officer and such otherperson	as may be prescribed: He shall also affix a copy  ofsuch notice at a conspicuous place on the premises where theemployees  affected by the change are employed for work	 andat  such  other	 place	as way	be  directed  by  the  ChiefConciliator in any particular case."Industrial  matter' has also been defined in the Act in  s.3(18) in the following words:"Industrial matter' means any matter relating to employment,work, wages, hours of work, privileges, rights or duties  ofemployers or employees, or the mode, terms and conditions ofemployment, and includes:-(a)all	matters	 pertaining  to	 the  relationship   betweenemployers  and	employees,  or	to  the	 dismissal  or	non-employment of any person;(b)  all matters pertaining to the demarcation of  functionsof  any employees or classes of employees;    (c)	 all matters pertaining to any right or claim  underor  in respect of or concerning a registered agreement or  asubmission, settlement or award made under this Act;(d)all	questions of what is fair and right in	relation  toany- industrial matter having regard to the interest of	 theperson	immediately  concerned	and of the  community  as  awhole;".Schedule  II,  para  4 mentions	 "rationalization  or  otherefficiency  system  of	work" and therefore  when  any	suchrationalization	 is  introduced, it is obligatory  upon	 theemployer  to  give  notice  of	such  an  intention  in	 theprescribed form to the representatives of the employees.  Wemay  also  refer to s. 3(35-A) defining	 'stoppage'  in	 thefollowing terms:-"  Stoppage' means a total or partial cessation of  work  bythe  employee  in  an industry acting in  combination  or  aconcerted refusal or a refusal under a common  understandingof employees to, continue to work or to accept work, whethersuch cessation or refusal is or is not in consequence of  anindustrial dispute;".945Sub-section (36) defines 'strike' as follows:-" 'Strike' means a total or partial cessation of work by theemployees  in  an  industry  acting  in	 combination  or   aconcerted refusal or a refusal under a common  understandingof  employees to continue to work or to accept	work,  wheresuch cessation or refusal is in consequence of an industrialdispute".Chapter	 XIV  of the statute concerns  itself  with  illegalstrikes	 and  lockouts	of which s. 97	deals  with  illegalstrikes,  whereas  s.  98 deals	 with  an  illegal  lockout.According to s. 97(1)(c), a strike shall be illegal if it iscommenced or continued only for the reason that the employerhas not carried out the provisions of any standing order  ormade "an illegal change".In  considering whether the strike in question was  illegal.the  learned  Judges of the High Court	have  expressed	 theopinion that there is a common law right for an employee  tostop work and that it is only by statutory prohibition	thatcertain	 strikes have been made illegal in the	interest  oflabour relations.  In the present case since there had	beenno 'illegal change" effected by the employer, the High Courttook  the  view that on the very finding  of  the  AppellateTribunal  that the change was a legal change, the strike  inquestion did not come within the ambit of s. 97.Learned counsel for the appellant has pressed two  argumentsbefore	us with regard to the construction of s. 97 (1)	 (e)of  the Bombay Industrial Relations Act., 1946.	  His  firstargument  is that the High Court was in error when  it	heldthat  there was any such right as a common law right  of  anemployee to go on strike and s. 97 constituted an inroad  onthat right.  Learned counsel has submitted that under s.  97(f)  (c)  a strike shall be illegal if it  is  commenced  orcontinued  only	 for the reason that the  employer  has	 notcarried out the provisions of any standing order or has madean  illegal change; if a strike is illegal when it  is	com-menced	or continued only for the reason that  the  employerhas  made an illegal change, a fortiori it must	 be  illegalwhen  it is commenced or continued for a legal change.	 Thecontention of learned counsel is128946that  by  necessary implication cl. (c)	 condemns  a  strikewhich  is commenced or continued for a change which  is	 notillegal.  The second argument of learned counsel is that thetrue  scope and effect of cl. (c) is this: the	word  'only'-occurring in the clause goes with the word 'reason' and  ifthe  strike  is commenced or continued for the	only  reasonthat  the employer has made an illegal change, it  shall  beillegal.   The	test  is not whether there was	a  legal  orillegal change in fact but what was the reason for which theemployees went on strike, and if the employees. commenced orcontinued a strike only for the reason that the employer hadmade  an illegal change, the strike would be illegal  withinthe express terms of the clause.In  our	 opinion it is unnecessary to decide  in  this	casewhether	 the  first  argument of  learned  counsel  for	 theappellant is correct or not; because we are I clearly of theopinion	 that  the  second  argument  with  regard  to	 theconstruction  of  s.  97  (1)  (c)  is	correct	 and  shouldprevail.. In this case the workmen themselves came to  courtwith the plea that the action of the employer amounted to anillegal	 change.  In their application to the Labour  Court,they  said:  "That  for the above-mentioned  reasons  it  isprayed that this Honourable Court be pleased to declare	 thesaid lockout by the opponent Mills as illegal being in	con-travention  of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, and	 theopponent  be ordered to withdraw the said  illegal  change".It  is	obvious, therefore, that the workmen  in  this	casestruck	work  only  for	 the  reason  that  the	 change	  orexperiment  made  by the appellant employer was	 an  illegalchange.	  The action of the workmen, therefore, came  withinthe express terms of s. 97 (1) (c) of the Act.	The  learnedChief Justice did not consider this aspect of the case,	 andreached	 a  conclusion with regard to the  legality  of	 thestrike on a reasoning which did not give full effect to	 thewords  used in s.97(1)(c). In our view,the true test was  tofind  out the reason for which the strike was  commenced  orcontinued,  and	 it was unnecessary to	consider  or  decidewhether there was a common law right of the workmen to go onstrike or whether the work-947-men had the right to go on strike as a means of  collectivebargaining against a change which they did not like.Mr.  Gokhale appearing for the workmen has taken us  throughthe different provisions of the Bombay Industrial  RelationsAct, 1946, and has contended that the workmen have the rightto go on strike as a means of collective bargaining  againstany  measure adopted by the employer which the	workmen	 mayconsider to be detrimental to their interests, provided	 thestrike	does not come within the prohibited ambit of s.	 97.Even  assuming that Mr. Gokhale is right in his	 contention,it is clear to us that if the workmen commence or continue astrike	for  the only reason that the employer has  made  anillegal change, they come within the express terms of s.  97(1)   (c).    It  is  immaterial  whether  the	 change	  issubsequently found by the Labour Court to be a legal change.It is worthy of note that there is a separate provision	 forimposing  a  penalty  on an employer who  makes	 an  illegalchange.	 The relevant consideration, however, with regard tos.  97	(1)  (c)  is the reason	 for  which  the  strike  iscommenced or continued.	 That reason in this particular caseis  clear  enough.  The workmen themselves  said  that	theycommenced and continued the strike because the employer	 hadmade an illegal change.	 That being the position, the strikewas  illegal within the express terms of s. 97(1)(c) of	 theAct.We  are,  therefore,  of  the  opinion	that,  on  a  properinterpretation of s. 97(1) (c) of the -Act, the strike whichwas  commenced and continued from September 6, to  September26, 1951, was clearly illegal.The  appeal  is, accordingly, allowed and the order  of	 theHigh  Court dated July 2, 1953, is set aside.	The  result,therefore,  is that the order of the Labour Appellate  Courtdated  September 4, 1952, stands, with the declaration	thatthe   strike  in  question  was	 illegal  with	 its   usualconsequences.In  this case, the appellant had agreed, while asking for  acertificate  from the Bombay High Court for leave to  appealto  the	 Supreme  Court,  to pay  the  taxed  costs  of	 therespondents in one set.	 Learned948counsel for the appellant himself has drawn our attention tothe  agreement.	 In view of that it is not necessary for  usto  decide  in this case whether it was open to	 the  BombayHigh Court to pass any order about costs in this Court whilegranting  a certificate of fitness under Art. 133(1) (c)  ofthe  Constitution, and we direct that the  appellant  shouldpay  to the respondents the costs of this appeal in one	 setand bear its own costs thereof.				    Appeal allowed.