PETITIONER:CHARANDAS HARIDAS AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,BOMBAY NORTH, KUTCH, SAURASHTDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/03/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1960 AIR  910		  1960 SCR  (3) 296 CITATOR INFO : E	    1960 SC1147	 (19) R	    1965 SC1708	 (5) RF	    1966 SC 719	 (8) F	    1967 SC 383	 (12) RF	    1967 SC 617	 (33) R	    1971 SC 383	 (4) D	    1982 SC 760	 (25) R	    1983 SC 409	 (10,13,15,21,22)ACT:Income-tax-Income   from  managing  agency-Karta  of   Hinduundivided  family becoming partner of managing agency  firm-Income	therefrom,  assessed  as  family   income-SubsequentPartition  of  managing commission-Claim for  assessment  asindividual income of divided members.HEADNOTE:C,  who	 was the Karta of the Hindu  undivided	family	con-sisting	 of his wife, three sons and himself, was a  partnerin  six managing agency firms in six Mills, and	 the  incomereceived  by him as partner 'was being assessed as  that  ofthe  Hindu undivided family for the purposes of	 income-tax.On December 31, 1945, C, acting for his three minor sons andhimself,  and his wife entered into an oral agreement for  apartial	 partition,  with effect from January  1,  1946,  bywhich C gave a certain share to his daughter in the managingagency commission from two of the six managing agencies heldby  the family and the balance together with the  share*  inthe  other  managing agencies was divided  into	 five  equalshares	between	 C, his wife and sons.	 The  agreement	 wassubsequently  recorded	in a document  dated  September	 II,1946,  which  recited, inter alia: " By	 this  partition  wedecided that whatever commission fell due till 31-12-45	 andwhich is received after 31-12-45 should be kept joint and inrespect	 of  the commission which accrues  from	 1-1-46	 andreceived after that date each of us become absolute owner ofhis one-fifth share and therefore from the date, i.e.,	from1-1-46	these commissions cease to be the joint property  ofour family." For the assessment years 1947-48 and 1948-49, Cclaimed	 that  the  income from the  managing  agency  firmsshould	no  longer  be treated as the income  of  the  Hinduundivided  family but as the separate income of the  dividedmembers,  but the Income-tax authorities rejected the  claimon the grounds that by the document in question the divisionwas  of	 the  income and not of the assets  from  which	 theincome was297derived	 and since income-tax was payable at the  moment  oftime when income accrued, this income must be taken to	haveaccrued to the Hindu undivided family:Held, that inasmuch as there was no other effective mode  ofpartitioning  this asset and further in view of the  findingthat  the  partition was not a pretence, the asset  must  betreated	 as divided for purposes of income-tax law  and	 theincome	was  not  assessable  as the  income  of  the  Hinduundivided family.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 108 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  16, 1955, of the Bombay High Court  in  Income-taxReference No. 35/x of 1954.A.V. Viswanatha Sastri, B. K. B. Naidu and I. N.  Shroff,for the appellants.C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India K. N.  RajagopalSastri and D. Gupta, for the respondents.1960.  March 15.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH,  J.-This	is an appeal with  the	Hid  specialleave  of  this Court against the judgment and	order  datedFebruary 16, 1955, of the High Court of Bombay in an Income-tax Reference under s. 66(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act.The  appellants	 are two assessees,  Charandas	Haridas	 andChinubhai Haridas, whose cases are identical, and, in  fact,there  was  a  consolidated  reference	by  the	  Income-taxAppellate Tribunal, which was answered by the High Court  byits   judgment.	  The  respondents  are	  respectively	 theCommissioner   of  Income-tax,	Bombay	North,	 Kutch	 andSaurashtra and the Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi, Ajmer,Rajasthan and Madhya Bharat.  The two appellants representedtwo  units of Hindu undivided families.	  Charandas  Haridasrepresented his wife, three sons and himself, and  ChinubhaiHaridas	 represented his wife, son and himself.	 In  statingthe  facts  relative  to the two families, it  will  not  benecessary  to  give them separately,  because  the  questionwhich  was answered by the High Court in the judgment  underappeal arose in identical circumstances in the two families.The  only difference is in the shares held  respectively  bythe two Hindu undivided families in the managing298agencies  to  be hereafter mentioned.  We  will,  therefore,confine	 ourselves to a statement of the facts	relating  toCharandas Haridas only.Charandas  Haridas  was	 the Karta of  the  Hindu  undividedfamily	consisting of his wife, three sons and himself.	  Hewas a partner in six managing agency firms in six Mills.  Inprevious  years,  the income received by him as	 partner  inthese managing agencies was being assessed as the income  ofthe Hindu undivided family.  On December 31, 1945, CharandasHaridas	 acting	 for his three minor sons  and	himself	 andShantaben,  his wife, entered into an oral agreement  for  apartial partition.  By that agreement Charandas Haridas gavean  one pie share to his daughter, Pratima, in the  managingagency commission from two of the six managing agencies heldby the family.	The balance together with the shares in	 theother  managing agencies was divided into five equal  sharesbetween	  Charandas  Haridas,  his  wife  and  sons.	Thisagreement  was	to come into effect from  January  1,  1946,which  was  the beginning of a fresh  accounting  year.	  OnSeptember 11, 1946, Charandas Haridas acting for himself andhis  minor  sons,  and Shantaben executed  a  memorandum  ofpartial partition in which the above facts were-recited, thedocument  purporting to be a record of what had taken  placeorally earlier.In  the	 assessment  years 1947-48  and	 1948-49,  CharandasHaridas claimed that the income should no longer be  treatedas  the	 income	 of the Hindu undivided family	but  as	 theseparate  income  of the divided  members.   The  Income-taxOfficer declined to treat the income as any but of the Hinduundivided  family,  and assessed the income as	before.	  Anappeal	 to   the  Appellate  Assistant	  Commissioner	 wasun.successful,	and the matter was taken to  the  Income-taxAppellate Tribunal.  The Appellate Tribunal held that by thedocument  in  question,	 the division, if any,	was  of	 theincome	and  not  of the assets from which  the	 income	 wasderived, inasmuch as " the agreements of the managing agencywith  the  managed  Companies did  not	undergo	 any  changewhatever as a result of the alleged partition The  AppellateTribunal,299therefore,  held that the arrangement to share the  receiptsfrom   this  source  of	 income	 was  not  binding  on	 theDepartment,  if	 the assets themselves continued  to  remainjoint.	 It further held that the document was " a farce  ",and  did  not  save  the family	 from  assessment  as  Hinduundivided  family.  The Tribunal having declined to state  aease under s. 66(1) of the Indian Income- tax Act, CharandasHaridas	 moved the Bombay High Court, and obtained an  orderunder  s. 66(2) of the Act.  The question on which the	casewas stated was:" Whether there were materials to justify the finding of theTribunal  that	the income in the share	 of  the  commissionagency	of the Mills was the income of the  Hindu  undividedfamily ? "The  High  Court stated that though the reference  was	veryelaborately argued, it raised a very simple question of factand  all that it was required to find out was whether  therewere materials before the Appellate Tribunal upon which	 thefinding	 of fact could be rested.  The High Court held	thatthough the finding given by the Appellate Tribunal could notbe construed as a finding that the document was not genuine,the method adopted by the family to partition the assets wasinsufficient  to  bring	 about the result  intended  by	 it.According  to  the High Court, the Appellate  Tribunal	war,right  in  holding that the document  was  ineffective,	 andthough	the income might have been purported to	 be  dividedand  might,  in fact, have been so divided,  the  source  ofincome. still remained united as belonging to the Hindu	 un-divided family.	 It accordingly answered the question in theaffirmative,  holding that there were materials	 before	 theTribunal  on which it could reach the conclusion that in  sofar  as	 these income-bearing assets  were  concerned,	theystill  belonged	 to the Hindu undivided	 family.   Leave  toappeal	to  this Court was refused by the  High	 Court,	 butCharandas Haridas applied to this Court and obtained specialleave, and the present appeal was filed.Mr.  Viswanatha	 Sastri	 appearing  for	 Charandas  Haridas,pointed	 out  that  a Hindu undivided  family  cannot  be  apartner of a firm Charandasa, Haridas,300therefore, though he represented the Hindu undivided family,in his capacity as a partner could not insist that the othermembers of the family be received as	partners,	  oradmitted  to the benefits of partnership.  The only mode  inwhich the partition could be made was to divide the  income,and this bad the necessary    effect,  in law,	of  dividingthe assets, if not for the purposes of the Partnership	Act,at  least  for the purposes of	assessing  income-tax.	lie,therefore,  contended that the Hindu undivided family  whichhad ceased to exist in so far as these assets were  concern-ed, could not be assessed as such after January 1, 1946, thedate  from which the partition was effective.	The  learnedSolicitor-General  for	the Department	contended  that	 theargument itself involved the assumption that the assets werenot,  in fact, divided, and since income-tax was payable  atthe moment of time when income accrued, this income must  betaken to have accrued to the Hindu undivided family and	 itssubsequent partition into five or six shares did not  affectthe position.Before	we  deal with these arguments, it  is  necessary  toquote  the  operative portion of the document, which  is  asfollows:"  Re:-Partial	partition of the Hindu Undivided  Family  ofCharandas Haridas of Ahmedabad.We the undersigned Sheth Charandas Haridas by himself and asthe  guardian of minors Rameshchandra  Charandas,  AnilkumarCharandas and Gautamkumar Charandas and Shantaben  Charandasall  residing in Shahibaug, Ahmedabad make  this  memorandum(Nondh)	 that,	we have a Hindu undivided family  and  ShethCharandas  Haridas  manages our family's joint	property  asKarta  or  Manager  and all of us as members  of  the  jointundivided family are entitled to our joint undivided  familyas  Malik.  Our family received a commission of Re.  0-1-11.5112  from  the	 Vijaya	 Mills Co., Ltd.  and  out  of	thiscommission  Sheth Charandas Haridas as Karta or	 Manager  ofthe  family  has given already a commission of	one  pie  toPratima,  the  daughter of the family.	So also out  of	 thecommission  of Re. 0-2-1/2 received by the family  from	 theGopal 301Mills Co., Ltd.	 Sheth Charandas Haridasas Karta and Managerhas  given  already to Pratima one  pie	 commission.   Afterdeducting  these Re. 0-1-10. 5/12 and Re. 0-1-11  commissionremained.   These commissions and other commission  receivedfrom various other mills have been partitioned orally by  uson  Samvat  Year 2002 Magsar Vadi 12, dated  31st  December,1945.  By this partition we decided that whatever commissionfell due till 31-12-45 and which is received after  31-12-45should be kept joint and in respect of the commission  whichaccrues from 1-1-46 and received after that date each of  usbecome	absolute owner of his one-fifth share and  thereforefrom  the date,i.e., from 1-1-46 these commissions cease  tobe  the joint property of our family.  But it is our  desirethat we should keep a memorandum for our memory of the	oralpartial	 partition effected on Samvat Year 2002 Magsar	Vadi12, dated 31-12-45 pursuant to which we have partitioned thecommissions  to be received by our family.  Because of	thiswe keep this note."The document no doubt mentions "a commission" in respect  ofeach  of  the six managing agencies,  which  commission	 wasdivided	 by the document.  The word  "commission",  however,has  been used in two different senses; sometimes it  refersto  the	 amount	 of the managing  agency  commission  to  bereceived by Charandas Haridas and sometimes to the right  tothat  commission which Charandas Haridas bad as	 a  partner.The  sole  question is whether the  source  was	 effectivelydivided	 for  purposes of the Income-tax law,  so  that	 theassessment could not be made upon a Hindu undivided family.The  law  was  stated by Mayne, and approved  by  the  PrivyCouncil in Pichappa v. Chokalingam in the following words:"  Where a managing member of a joint family enters  into  apartnership with a stranger the other members of the  familydo  not ipso facto become partners in the business so as  toclothe them with all the rights and obligations of a partneras defined by the Indian Contract Act.	In such a, case the(1)  A.I.R. 1934 P.C. 192.39302family as a unit does not become a partner, but only such ofits  members  as in fact enter into a  contractual  relationwith  the stranger: the partnership will be governed by	 theAct."Further,  the Privy Council in Appovier v. Rama Subba  Aiyan(1) observed:"  Nothing can express more definitely a conversion  of	 thetenancy, and with that conversion a change of the status  ofthe family quad this property.	The produce is no longer  tobe  brought to the common chest, as representing the  incomeof an undivided property, but the proceeds are to be enjoyedin  six distinct equal shares by the members of the  family,who  are  thenceforth to become entitled to  those  definiteshares."The  Bombay High Court quoted this passage, and stated	thatthere must be a division of the right as well as a  divisionof  the	 property;  and	 unless	 the  division	effected   aseparation of the property into shares, it would remain onlyas  a separation of the income after its accrual  and  wouldnot  affect the asset as such.	In this view of the  matter,the  Bombay High Court held that the asset continued  to  bejoint  in  spite  of the division of the  income  after	 itsaccrual.In  our opinion, here there are three different branches  oflaw to notice.	There is the law of Partnership, which takesno  account of a Hindu undivided family.  There is also	 theHindu law, which permits a partition of the family and	alsoa partial partition binding upon the family.  There is	thenthe  Income-tax law, under which a particular income may  betreated	 as the income of the Hindu undivided family  or  asthe income of the separated members enjoying separate sharesby partition.  The fact of a partition in the Hindu law	 mayhave  no effect upon the position of the partner, in so	 faras  the	 law of Partnership is concerned, but  it  has	fulleffect	upon  the  family  in so far as	 the  Hindu  law  isconcerned.   Just as the fact of a Karta becoming a  partnerdoes not introduce the members of the undivided family	intothe partnership, the division of the family does not  changethe  position of the partner Vis-a-vis the other partner  orpartners.  The Income-(1)  (1866) 11 M.I.A. 75.303tax  law before the partition takes note, factually, of	 theposition of the Karta, and assesses not him qua partner	 butas  representing the Hindu undivided family.  In  doing	 so,the  Income-tax	 law  looks not to  the	 provisions  of	 thePartnership  Act, but to the provisions of Hindu law.	Whenonce  the  family  has disrupted,  the	position  under	 thepartnership continues as before, but the position under	 theHindu law changes.  There is then no Hindu undivided  familyas  a  unit of assessment in point of fact, and	 the  incomewhich  accrues,	 cannot be said to be of a  Hindu  undividedfamily.	  There is nothing in the Indian Income-tax  law  orthe law of Partnership which prevents the members of a Hindujoint  family from dividing any asset.	Such division  must,of course, be effective so as to bind the members; but Hindulaw does not further require that the property must in everycase be partitioned by metes and bounds, if separate  enjoy-ment can otherwise be secured according to the shares of themembers.  For an asset of this kind, there was no other modeof  partition open to the parties if they wished  to  retainthe  property and yet hold it not jointly but in  severally,and the law does not contemplate that a person should do theimpossible.   Indeed, the result would have been  the  same,even if the dividing members had said in so many words	thatthey  had partitioned the assets, because in so far  as	 thefirms  were  concerned,	 the step  would  have	been  whollyinconsequential.The   respondent  suggested  that  the	family	could	havepartitioned the managing agencies 'among the members of	 thefamily by balloting them severally; but that would not	havebeen  possible without a dissolution of the managing  agencyfirms and their reconstitution, which was not altogether  inthe hands of Charandas Haridas.	 It was also suggested	thatthe managing agencies could have been allotted to  CharandasHaridas	 while	the others took some other  property,  or  areceiver  could have been appointed.  No doubt,	 there	weremany  modes of partition which might have been adopted;	 butthe question remains that if the family desired to partitionthese assets only and no more, could they have acted in someother manner304to achieve the same result?  No answer to this question	 wasattempted.It is, therefore, manifest that the family took the  fullestmeasure	 possible  for	dividing  the  joint  interest	intoseparate  interests.  There is no suggestion here that	thisdivision was a mere pretence; nor has the Appellate Tribunalgiven  such  a finding.	 The document  was  fully  effectivebetween	 the members of the family, and there was  factuallyno  Hindu  undivided family in respect of  these  particularassets.	  The  assets  at all times stood  in  the  name  ofCharandas  Haridas, and looked at from the point of view  ofthe  law  of Partnership, the family had no  standing.	 Theassets	still  are  in the name of  Charandas  Haridas,	 andlooked	again from the same viewpoint, the division  has  nodifferent signification.  What has altered is the status  ofthe family.  While it was joint, the Department could  treatthe  income as that of the family; but after partition,	 theDepartment could not say that it was still the income of theHindu undivided family, when there was none.  In the face ofthe finding that this was a genuine document and not a sham,and  that  it  effectually divided the	income	and  in	 thecircumstances,	the assets, the question answers  itself  inthe  negative, that is to say, that there were no  materialsto  justify the finding that the income in the share of	 thecommission  agency of the Mills was the income of the  Hinduundivided family.The  appeal will be allowed.  The respondents will  pay	 thecosts  of the two assessees here and below.  There  will  beonly one set of costs here.Appeal allowed.305