PETITIONER:SURENDRA NATH KHOSLA	Vs.RESPONDENT:DALIP SINGHDATE OF JUDGMENT:29/11/1956BENCH:ACT:Election-Improper  rejection  of  nomination   Paper-Whetherresult	of  the election  materially  affected	Presumption-Double	member constituency -Whether election  wholly  void-Attestation  Thumb  impression	of  Proposer  and  seconder-Whether	 Properly attested-The Representation of the  PeopleAct, 1951  XLIII of 1951), s. 100(I)(c)-The  Representationsof the	People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions)Rules, 1951, r. 2(2).HEADNOTE:Twelve candidates filed nomination papers for election	froma double member constituency for the State Assembly, one  ofthe seats being reserved for the Schedule Castes.  The thumbimpressions of the proposer and seconder of a candidate wereattested  by  a magistrate specified in this behalf  by	 theElection  Commission.	But  there had	been  a	 mistake  ofomission of the name of the magistrate in the  communicationsent  by the Election Commission to the	 local	authorities.The  returning officer rejected the nomination paper on	 theground	that  there was no proper attestation of  the  thumbimpressions  of	 the  proposer and  seconder.	An  electionpetition  was filed to set aside the election on the  groundthat  the nomination paper had been rejected improperly	 andthat  this  had	 materially  affected  the  result  of	 theelection.   The	 Election  Tribunal  set  aside	 the  entireelection:Held, (1) that the magistrate having in fact been  specifiedby the Election Commission, the attestation by him was	goodattestation,  and the rejection of the nomination paper	 wasimproper,(2)that  in the case of an improper rejection of  anomination paper there was a presumption that the result  ofthe election had -been materially affected, and (3) that thewhole  election,  including  that  of  the  Schedule   Castecandidate, was void.Vasisht Narain Sharma v.  Dev Chandra, (1955) 1 S.C.R.	509,Hari Yishnu Katnath v.	Syed Ahmad Ishaque, (1955) 1  S.C.R.104, distinguished.Chatturbhuj Vithaldas jasani v. Moreshwar Parashram,  (1954)S.C.R. 817, and Karnail Singh v. Election Tribunal,  Hissar,10 Elec.  Law Reports, 189, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 23 of 1956.Appeal against the judgment and order dated August 26, 1955,of the Election Tribunal, Patiala, in Election Petition	 No.12 of 1954.180Gopal Singh, for the Appellants.Jagan Nath Kaushal and Naunit Lal, for respondent No. 6.1956.  November 29.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySINHA  J.-This appeal by special leave is  directed  againstthe majority judgment and order of the Election Tribunal  ofPatiala,   dated   August  26,	1955,  declaring   the	 twoappellants'  election to be void on account of the  improperrejection of the nomination paper of Buta Singh,  respondent18.In order to appreciate the arguments raised on behalf of theappellant,%  it is necessary to state the following facts  :The   appellants  and  respondents  2  to  18  filed   theirnomination  papers  on January 9,1954, for election  from  adouble	 member	  constituency	of  Samana  to	 the   PepsuLegislative  Assembly.	Of the two seats, one  was  reservedfor  the  Schedule  Caste  and	the  other  was	 a   generalconstituency.	Scrutiny  of the nomination  papers  by	 theReturning  Officer  took  place on January  13,	 1954.	 TheReturning Officer accepted all the nomination papers  exceptthat  of Buta Singh aforesaid on the ground that  the  thumbimpressions  of the proposer and the seconder had  not	beenattested  by  an  officer in accordance	 with  the  ElectionRules.	 Polling  took place on February 24, 1954,  and	 theresults	 announced  in the Pepsu Gazette on March  4,  1954.The results thus announced showed that the first  appellant,Suren  Ara  Nath Khosla, had obtained 13,853  votes  in	 thegeneral constituency and the second appellant, Pritam Singh,had polled 13,663 votes for the reserved seat.	They  havingsecured	 the largest number of votes from  their  respective'constituencies	 were  declared to have been  duly  elected.The other candidates got smaller number of votes which it isnot  necessary to set out here.	 Buta Singh aforsaid,  whosenomination paper had been rejected by the Returning Officer,did  not take any further steps, But Dalip Singh, the  firstrespondent,  filed  an election petition with  the  ElectionCommission,  respondent	 19.   The  election  petition	 wasenquired into by the Election Tribunal181consisting,  of	 three	persons,  one  of  them	 being	 theChairman.   A  number  of issues  were	joined	between	 theparties.   The Chairman and another member of  the  Tribunaldecided	 the material issues 1 and 4 in favour of the  firstrespondent  to the effect that the 18th respondent had	beenduly  proposed and seconded, that the Returning Officer	 hadwrongly	 rejected his nomination paper and that as a  resultof that rejection the result of the election as a whole	 hadbeen  materially affected.  On those findings they  declaredthe  election void as a whole and set aside the election  ofthe  appellants.   The third member of the  Tribunal,  whileagreeing  with the majority in their judgment on  the  otherissues,	 disagreed with them on the most material  issue  inthe  case,  namely,  issue  4,	and  held  that	 the   firstrespondent had failed to prove, that the wrong rejection  ofthe  nomination paper of the 18th respondent had  materiallyaffected  the result of the election.  The appellants  movedthis  Court  and obtained special leave to appeal  from	 themajority  judgment  declaring the election to be void  as  awhole.The  appeal was first placed for hearing before	 a  DivisionBench of three Judges on March 23,1956.	 That Bench directedthat the papers be laid before the Hon'ble the Chief Justicefor having the case heard by a larger Bench because in theirview  the case raised a difficult and important point  aboutelection  law.	 They  made  reference	to  the	 full  Courtdecision  in  Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed  Ahmad	 Ishaque(1),which  upheld the earlier decision of this Court in  VasishtNarain	Sharma	v. Dev Chandra(2), as  authorities  for	 theproposition  that the burden of proof is on the	 person	 whoseeks to challenge the election and that he must prove	thatthe  result of the election has been materially affected  bythe  improper  rejection of the non  lination  paper.	Theyindicated the difficulty of discharging such a burden unlesssome sort of presumption was called in aid of the petitionerwho sought to have the election set aside.In this Court learned counsel for the appellants has  raisedthree questions for our determination:. (1) That(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1104,(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 509.182the first. issue had been wrongly determined by the ElectionTribunal  and that it should have been held that  the  thumbimpressions  of	 the  proposer	and  seconder  of  the	18threspondent  had not been properly verified according to	 theElection  Rules	 and  that therefore the  rejection  of	 thenomination  paper by the Returning Officer was justified  bylaw. (2) Assuming that the nomination paper had been wronglyrejected, the fourth issue had been wrongly decided by	the,majority  in so far as it held that there was a	 presumptionthat the wrong rejection of the nomination had the necessaryresult	of  materially affecting the election and  that	 theevidence  led on behalf of the appellants  had	not-rebuttedthat  presumption.   It	 was  further  contended  that	 theminority  judgment on issue No. 4 to the effect that it	 wasfor  the first respondent, who ,sought to have the  electionset aside, to prove that the result of the election had beenmaterially affected on account of the wrong rejection of thenomination  paper  of the 18th respondent was  correct,	 andthat  he had failed to establish that by evidence. (3)	Thatin any case, the election of the second appellant in respectof the reserved seat should not have been set aside.The first issue is in these terms:"  Whether  respondent	No. 19 (respondent No.	18  in	thisCourt) was duly proposed and seconded and thumb	 impressionsof  the	 proposer and the seconder on his  nomination  paperwere attested in accordance with law?"The  Tribunal  took the view that as a matter  of  fact	 therespondent  Buta Singh had been duly proposed and  seconded'The  learned  counsel for the appellants did  not  challengethat  finding  of fact.	 But he contended that	the  furtherfinding	 of the Tribunal that the thumb impressions  of	 theproposer  and the seconder on the nomination paper had	beenattested  in  accordance with law is erroneous.	 As  to	 theregularity of the attestation, the matter depends, upon	 therules framed under the provisions of the Representation'  ofthe People Act, XLIII of 1951 (hereinafter referred183to  as	the Act), particularly r. 2(2). which is  in,  theseterms:"  For the purposes of the Act or these rules, a person	 whois  unable  to,	 Write his  name  shall,,  unless  otherwiseexpressly  provided in these rules,be deemed to have  signedan instrument or other paper if he has placed a mark on suchinstrument  or other paper in the presence of the  ReturningOfficer	 or the presiding officer or such other	 officer  asmay be specified in this, behalf by the Election  Commissionand  such officer on being satisfied as to his identity	 hasattested the mark: as being the mark of such person."In  this case the nomination had been attested by  a,  localmagistrate and the Tribunal after referring to the  relevantevidence  has recorded the finding that magistrate had	beenspecified  by the, Election Commission in that behalf.	 Thequestion,  therefore, is essentially one of fact.   But	 thelearned counsel for the appellants contended that, as  foundby the Tribunal, there had been a mistake of omission in thecommunication  from, the Election Commission to	 the  local,election  officer  and	that such a  mistake,  clerical	 or.accidental  though  it	may have been,	has  the  effect  ofrendering the act station unacceptable.	 We are not preparedto  accede  to that contention as sound in  principle.	 TheTribunal having found as a fact that the persons whose thumbimpressions  the  nomination paper. purported to,  bear	 hadreally	proposed and seconded the candidate and	 that  thosethumb impressions had -been attested by a magistrate who hadin,  fact been authorised in that behalf, there is no  room;for the contention that, the Returning Officer was justifiedin  rejecting the nomination paper in question.	  The  firstground of attack therefore fails.The  second ground of attack is based on issue No. 4,  whichis in these terms:"  Whether  the	 rejection  of	the  nomination	 'paper	 of,respondent,  No.  19 (respondent No. 18 in this	 Court)	 hadmaterially, affected the result of the election."On   his issue the  majority of the Tribunal took  the	viewthat in a case where a nomination, paper had184been improperly rejected there is a strong presumption	thatthe result of the election has been materially affected.  Itreferred  to  a	 large	number	of  decisions  of  differentElection  Tribunals both before and after the  enactment  ofthe Act to show that the view taken in most of the decisionswas  that  in a case like this there was  a  presumption  infavour	of holding that the result of the election had	beenmaterially  affected and that. the burden lay,on the  personseeking to uphold the election to prove the contrary.	Theygave effect to, that presumption and held that the evidence:'Adduced by the appellants (then respondents) did not  rebutthat  presumption.  The learned counsel for  the  appellantsinvited our,attention to the words of the statute..  Section100(1)(c) is in these terms-:"If the Tribunal is of opinion(c)  that  the	result of the election has  been  materiallyaffected  by  the improper acceptance or  rejection  of	 anynomination,the Tribunal shall declare the election, to be wholly void."He  argued  that  the  legislature  has	 placed	 "  improperacceptance  "  and " improper rejection "  of  a  nominationpaper  on the same footing, and the condition  precedent  tothe  declaration  of  an election to be	 void  is  that	 theTribunal should be satisfied not only that there has been animproper  rejection  of	 a nomination paper  but  Also	thatimproper rejection has materially affected the result of theelection,  (confining the provisions of the statute  to;.thefacts of the present case).  Reliance was also placed by himon the two decisions 'of this Court, namely, Vashisht NarainSharma	v.  Dev Chandra (supra) and -Hari Vishnu  Kamath  v.Syed  Ahmad  Ishaque (supra) in support of  the	 propositionthat  the two conditions are cumulative and must  -both'  beestablished  and that the burden of establishing them is  onthe  person who seeks to have the election set	aside.	 He.also  relied   upon the terms of,& 90(3) of the Act  to	 theeffect,	 that  the provisions of the,  Evidence	 Act  shall,subject to the provisions of185the Act, be deemed to apply in all respects to the trial  ofan  election petition.	The contention further is  that	 ss.101 and 102 of the Evidence Act must therefore apply and theburden must be cast on the petitioner before the Tribunal toestablish  both	 the conditions before any relief  could  begranted	 to  him.  In our opinion, that	 argument  does	 notadvance	 the case of the appellants any more than  what	 hasbeen laid down by this Court in the cases referred to above.The other provisions of the Evidence Act including the rulesof presumption must also be equally applicable.	 But neitherof  the two cases referred to above directly applies to	 thefacts of the present case which is one of improper rejectionof  a nomination paper.	 A Division Bench of this Court	 haslaid  down  in the law of Chatturbhuj  Vithaldas  Jasani  v.Moreshwar  Parashram  (1)  at  p.  842	that  the   improperrejection   of	a  nomination  paper  "affects	 the   wholeelection".  A similar view was taken in the case of  KarnailSingh  v. Election Tribunal, Hissar (2), by a Bench of	fiveJudges of this Court.  But, as pointed out on behalf of	 theappellants,  in	 neither  of those two	cases  the  relevantprovisions of the Act have been discussed.  It appears	thatthough	the words of the section are in general	 terms	withequal  application  to the case of improper  acceptance,  asalso  of improper rejection of a nomination paper, case	 lawhas made a distinction between the two classes of cases.  Sofar  as	 the latter class of cases is concerned, it  may  bepointed	 out that almost all the Election Tribunals  in	 thecountry	 have  consistently taken the view that there  is  apresumption  in	 the  case,  of	 improper  rejection  of   anomination paper that it has materially affected the  resultof  the	 election.   Apart from	 the  practical	 difficulty,almost the impossibility, of demonstrating that the electorswould have cast their votes in a particular way, that is  tosay, that a substantial number of them would have cast theirvotes in favour of the rejected candidate, the fact that oneof  several candidates for an election had been kept out  ofthe arena is by itself a very material(1) [1954] S.C.R. 817.	  (2) 10 Elec.	Law Reports 189.24186consideration.	Cases can easily be imagined where the	mostdesirable candidates from the point of view of electors	 andthe most formidable candidate from the point of view of	 theother candidates may have been wrongly kept out from seekingelection.   By keeping out such a desirable  candidate,	 theofficer	 rejecting the nomination paper may  have  preventedthe  electors from voting for the best candidate  available.On the other hand, in the case of an improper acceptance  ofa  nomination  paper,  proof may easily	 be  forthcoming  todemonstrate that the coming into the arena of an  additionalcandidate has not had any effect on the election of the bestcandidate  in  the  field.   The  conjecture  therefore	  ispermissible  that the legislature realising  the  differencebetween	 the  two  classes of cases  has  given	 legislativesanction   to	the  view  by  amending	 s.   100   by	 theRepresentation	of the People (Second Amendment) Act,  XXVIIof  1956,  and by going to the length of providing  that  animproper  rejection  of any nomination paper  is  conclusiveproof	of  the	 election  being  void.	  For  the   reasonsaforesaid,  in	our opinion, the majority  decision  on	 thefourth issue is also correct.Alternatively, it was argued by the learned counsel for	 theappellants  that if there was such a presumption, it  was  arebuttable  one and the Tribunal should have held  that	 theevidence  adduced  by  the  appellants	had  rebutted	thatpresumption.   He  proposed  to take  us  through  the	oralevidence  adduced by them.  But we refused to go  into	thatevidence for the simple reason that this Court in an  appealby special leave does not ordinarily reopen findings of factrecorded  by a competent Tribunal.  It must,  therefore,  beheld  that  the	 Tribunal was justified	 in  coming  to	 theconclusion  that  the  result  of  the	election  had	beenmaterially  affected  by  the  improper	 rejection  of	 thenomination in question.Lastly	it  was urged that assuming that  the  Tribunal	 wasjustified in declaring the election to be void so far as thegeneral seat was concerned, there was no reason to set asidethe election as a whole and that, therefore, the election ofthe second appellant should not have			    187been  set aside.  But s. 100 in terms provides that  if	 theTribunal  was of the opinion, as it was in this	 case,	thatthe  result of the election had been materially affected  bythe  improper  rejection  of  the  nomination  paper,	"theTribunal shall declare the election to be wholly void".	 Theelection  in  this  case was in respect	 of  a	double	seatconstituency  and was one integral whole.  If it had  to  bedeclared  void, the Tribunal was justified in setting as  inthe election as a whole. As  all  the contentions raised in support  of	 the  appealfail,  it  must be dismissed with costs	 to  the  contestingrespondents.Appeal dismissed.