PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE CALCUTTA STOCK EXCHANGE ASSOCIATION LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:26/03/1959BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  763		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 459 CITATOR INFO : F	    1961 SC1144	 (5)ACT:Income Tax-Stock Exchange Association-Authoriscd Assistants-Admission  fee and monthly subscriptions in respect of	thempaid  by members-Fee for Putting the names of  companies  onQuotations  List-lncome	 therefrom-Assessability  to   tax-"Performing specific services ", Meaning of-Indian Income-taxAct, 1922 (XI of 1922), s. 10(6).HEADNOTE:By sub-s. 6 of s. 10 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922:  "Atrade,	 professional  or  similar  association	  performingspecific   services   for  its	members	  for	remunerationdefinitely related to those services shall be deemed for thepurpose	 of this section to carry on business in respect  ofthose services, and the profits and gains therefrom shall beliable to tax accordingly."The  members  of  the respondent  company,  whose  principalobject was to facilitate the transaction of business on	 theStock  Exchange,  were enabled under the by-laws to  have  acertain	 number of Authorised Assistants so that the  lattercould use the premises of the company and transact  businesstherein	 in the names and on behalf of the members who,	 forthat  purpose,	were  required to  pay	admission  fees	 andmonthly	 subscriptions in respect of each of them.  The	 by-laws  of  the  company also provided  that  no	dealings  inrespect	 of the shares of any particular company  should  bepermitted on the Stock Exchange, unless an application	madeby  a member of the respondent company and accompanied by  afee of Rs. 1000, for putting the name of that company on theQuotations List was approved by the prescribed Authority  ofthe  respondent	 company.   During the	accounting  year  inquestion  the  company received from its  members  admissionfees   and  subscriptions  in  respect	of  the	  AuthorizedAssistants  and fees for putting the names of  companies  onthe Quotations List.  The question was whether the aforesaidamount	was liable to be taxed under s. 10(6) of the  IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922.Held,  that  with  reference to	 a  trade,  professional  orsimilar	 association,  the performing of  specific  servicesunder  s.  10(6) of the Indian Income-tax  Act,	 1922,	meanconferring  on	its  members  some  tangible  benefit  whichotherwise would not be available to them as such, except forpayment	 received  by the association in  respect  of  thoseservices.460Accordingly,  the income received by the respondent  companytowards the admission fees and the subscriptions in  respectof  the Authorized Assistants, being the price paid for	 theservices  of  the  respondent  company	in  making  suitablearrangements for an absentee member to transact business  onhis  behalf and in his name by his representative  or  agentwithin the Stock Exchange, as well as the fees received frommembers for enlisting the names of companies not already  onthe Quotations List so as to permit transactions in  respectof  the shares of the companies concerned, was	remunerationdefinitely related to specific services performed by	 therespondent for its members within the meaning of s.10(6)  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, and was assessable to income-tax.Native	 Share	and  Stock  Brokers'  Association   v.	 TheCommissioner  of  Income-tax, Bombay [1946] 14	I.T.R.	628,approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 204 of 1958.Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated January 6,  1956,of the Calcutta High Court in Income-tax Reference No. 74 of1953.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for theappellant.Radha Binod Pal, Panchanan Pal and D. N. Mukherjee, for	 therespondents.1959.  March 26.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySINHA, J.-The question for determination in this appeal on acertificate  of	 fitness  granted  by  the  High  Court	  ofCalcutta, is whether the respondent's admitted income tindercertain	 heads,	 is  chargeable	 to  income-tax	 under	 theprovisions  of s. 10(6) of the Indian Income-tax  Act,	1922(XI  of	 1922) (hereinafter referred to as  the	 Act).	 TheCalcutta High Court, by its judgment dated January 6,  1956,answered the question in the negative, disagreeing with	 thedetermination  of the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal  by	 itsorder dated April 23, 1949.The  facts  of	this case, upon which the  decision  of	 theappeal	depends,  may  shortly be  stated  as  follows:	 Therespondent  is a limited liability company  incorporated  onJune  7,  1933, with a view to taking over  the	 assets	 andliabilities  of an unincorporated association called  "	 TheCalcutta Stock Exchange Association461and  to carrying on the affairs of the Stock Exchange  whichhad been founded by that Association.  The principal  objectof  the Respondent Company is to facilitate the	 transactionof business on the Calcutta Stock Exchange.  In view of thatobjective,  the	 Company  had to  make	rules  and  by-laws,regulating  the mode and the conditions in, and subject	 to,which  the  business  of  the  Stock  Exchange	had  to	  betransacted.  The Company is composed of " members " who	 maybe  either individuals or firms, who, except in the case  ofparties	  who  had  been  members  of	the   unincorporatedAssociation  have  to  be elected as  such,  and  upon	suchelections, have to acquire a share of the Company and pay anentrance   fee.	   The	members	 have  to  pay	 a   monthlysubscription according to the by-laws of the Company.  Underthe  by-laws  of  the Respondent  Company,  members  with  acertain standing, are allowed to have "Authorized Assistants",  upto  a  maximum  of six  in  number.   Such  AuthorizedAssistants  are	 permitted the use of the  premises  of	 theAssociation  and to transact business therein in  the  namesand  on behalf of the members employing them.	The  membershave to pay an admission fee for such Authorized  Assistantsaccording to the following scale :(a)  for the first two Assistants   Rs.1,000(b)  for the third Assistant	  Rs.2,000(c)  for the fourth Assistant	    Rs.3,000(d)  for the fifth Assistant	  Rs.4,000(e)  for the sixth Assistant	    Rs.5,000(f)  for replacement		    Rs.1,000The last item of replacement fee of Rs. 1,000/- is meant  tocover  the  fee for substituting one Assistant	by  another.Before these by-laws were amended with effect from July	 10,1944, a member could have more than six such Assistants, butthe  number  was limited to six by the new  amendment  whichalso  provided	that  "	 Members  who  have  more  than	 sixAssistants, at present, shall not be allowed any replacementunless the number of Assistants in their firms has come downto  six (maximum fixed)." Rule (5), as amended, is in  theseterms:-462"Every	candidate applying for admission as Assistant  to  amember must serve at least for one year as a probationer  inthe  firm of that member.  A probationer must apply  to	 theCommittee (through the member in whose office he will  serveas  probationer)  in such form as may be prescribed  by	 theCommittee by paying Rs. 100/- as probationer fee which	willnot be refunded in any circumstances ".It  would,  thus,  appear that the  rules  relating  to	 theadmission  of members' Assistants, confer the  benefit	uponthose  members	only-either  individuals  or  firms-who	 arequalified according to the by-laws to have such	 Assistants,and  who  have	paid  admission	 fees  and  pay	 a   monthlysubscription  in respect of each of them, besides their	 owndues,  to  the Company.	 The number of such  Assistants	 hasbeen  sought by the by-laws to be limited upto a maximum  ofsix,  by  imposing a progressively enhanced  admission	fee,apparently, with a view to discouraging the employment of  alarge  crowd of such " Authorized Assistants".	The  by-lawsalso  provide that "an authorized assistant shall not  enterinto any contracts on his own behalf and all contracts	madeby him shall be made in the name of the member employing himand such member shall be absolutely responsible for the	 duefulfilment  of all such contracts and for  all	transactionsentered	 into by the authorized assistant on his behalf"  Itis also contemplated by the by-laws that tickets have to  beissued	to the Authorized Assistants, besides  the  members'tickets.   The bylaws also contemplate that a  member  shallgive to the prescribed Authority of the Company an immediatenotice	in writing, of the termination of the employment  byhim  of any Authorized Assistant, and on  such	termination,the  right  of	the  Assistant	to  use	 the  rooms  of	 theAssociation, shall cease, and he shall not be at liberty  totransact business in the name and on behalf of his employer.The  by-laws also make provision for the supervision of	 thework of the Authorized Assistants to see that they  functionwithin the limits of their powers, and do not transact463business  on  behalf of persons or firms  other	 than  thoseemploying them.During the accounting year 1944-45 assessment year 1945-46),the Respondent Company received from its members the sum  ofRs.  60,750/- as entrance fees, and the sum of Rs.  15,687/-as  subscription in' respect of the  Authorized	 Assistants.The  Company also received during the aforesaid year, a	 sumof  Rs. 16,000/- as fees for putting the names of  companieson the Quotations List.	 Unless a particular company's	nameis placed on the Quotations List, no dealings in respect  ofthe  shares  of	 that company are  permitted  on  the  StockExchange.   An	application has to be made by  a  member  toplace  on  the	Quotations  List  any  company	not  alreadyincluded  in  that List, and on approval by  the  prescribedAuthority  of  the  Company, the name of  the  company	thusproposed, is included in the List upon payment of a  certainfee.	The  companies	themselves  cannot  apply   to	 theAssociation for such enlistment.  The application has to  bemade by a member, and has to be accompanied by a fee of	 Rs.1,000/-,  and  it is only after the necessary  scrutiny	 andinvestigation into the affairs of the proposed company	havebeen made, that the enlistment applied for is granted.	Thatis  another source of income to the Respondent Company.	  Itis  no	more necessary to refer to another item	 of  income,which  was  admitted, during the course	 of  the  assessmentproceedings  in their appellate stage, to be liable  to	 thepayment	 of  tax.  We are, thus, concerned  in	the  presentcontroversy  with  the aforesaid sums of Rs.  60,750/-,	 Rs.15,687/-  and Rs. 16,000/-which were held by the  Income-taxOfficer, by his order dated March 27, 1946, to be liable  toincome-tax.  The Income-tax Officer rejected the  contentionraised on behalf of the assessee Company that the AuthorizedAssistants aforesaid were themselves members of the Company,and  that  therefore,  the moneys received  from  them	wereexempt	from  taxation.	  He  also  held  that	though	 theRespondent Company was a mutual Association, each one of thethree  items of income, referred to above, was	remunerationdefinitely related464to specific services performed, and was thus, chargeable  totax  within the meaning of s. 10(6) of the Act.	 On  appeal,the  Appellate	Assistant Commissioner, by his	order  datedJune  30, 1947, considered the points at great	length,	 andcame  to the conclusion that the authorized Assistants	werenot  members  or  substitute  members.	 He  held  that	 theAuthorized  Assistants were no more than representatives  ofthe  members who employ them, and they transact business  ontheir behalf, and that the Association had framed rules	 andby-laws,   regulating	the   admission,   supervision	 anddiscontinuance of such Authorized Assistants.  For coming tothis  conclusion, he relied upon the decision of the  BombayHigh  Court in the case of Native Share and  Stock  Brokers'Association v. The Commissioner of Income-tax(1).  The	casewas  then  taken up in appeal to  the  Income-tax  AppellateTribunal,  which dismissed the appeal.	The Tribunal  agreedwith  the  finding  of	the  taxing  authorities  that	 theAuthorized Assistants were not members of the Company withinthe  meaning of the Articles of Association of the  Company,and  that  their  position was analogous to that  of  the  "authorised  clerks  in	Native	Share  and  Stock   Brokers'Association  at	 Bombay ". In the course of its	 order,	 theTribunal observed as follows:-"  The provision made in the regulations of the company,  bywhich a member can take advantage of sending his  authorisedassistants  to the company for transacting the	business  inthe  member name is nothing but giving extra  facilities  tothe  members.  By controlling the institution of  authorisedassistants  the	 company renders specific  services  to	 themembers	 and  in particular to the member  whose  assistantswork  for  him.	 The amounts received by  the  company	fromthese  sources	are  clearly covered by	 the  provisions  ofsection 10(6) ".At the instance of the assessee, the Tribunal stated a	caseand  referred  the following questions of law  to  the	HighCourt for its decision under s. 66(1) of the Act:-"  (1)	Whether	 on the facts of  this	case  the  IncometaxAppellate Tribunal was right in holding that,(1)  [1946] 14 I.T.R. 628.465Authorised Assistants were not members of the company and assuch the amounts of Rs. 15,687/- and 60,750/- received	fromthem as subscriptions and entrance fees respectively  shouldbe included in the assessable income.(2)  Were  these  amounts  received  for  specific  servicesperformed  by  the  Association or its	members	 within	 themeaning	 of  sub-section  (6) of section 10  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act ?(3)Whether  the	 sums  of Rs.  16,000/-	 and  Rs.  600/-wereremuneration   definitely  related  to	 specific   servicesperformed  by  the Association for its	members	 within	 themeaning of subsection (6) of section 10 ".The  reference was heard by a Division Bench  consisting  ofSir Trevor Harries, C. J., and Banerjee, J., of the CalcuttaHigh  Court.   Before that Bench, certain  concessions	weremade.  It was conceded by Dr. Pal, who also appeared  beforethat Bench, that the Authorised Assistants were not  membersof the Company.	 It was also agreed at the bar, on behalf ofboth the parties, that the two sums of Rs. 60,750 and 15,687were  not  received  from  the	Authorized  Assistants,	  assuggested in the question formulated, and that it was commonground	 that  they  were  received  from  members  of	 theAssociation  in	 respect  of  their  Authorized	 Assistants.Therefore,  the High Court took the view that the  questionsframed by the Tribunal did not arise, and that the  Tribunalbad  proceeded on a wrong basis of facts.  The	High  Court,therefore, re-cast the questions in these terms:-"  Whether in the facts and circumstances of this  case	 theIncome-tax Appellate Tribunal was right in holding that(a)the amounts of Rs. 15,687/- and Rs. 60,750/-received fromthe members of the Association as subscriptions and entrancefees in respect of Authorized Assistants, and(b)  the  amounts of Rs. 16,000/- and Rs. 600/- received  asfees for enlisting names of newly floated companies and	 forrecognition  of changes in the styles of firms	respectivelyshould	be  included  in  the assess.  able  income  of	 theassessees59466The Tribunal was asked to re-state a case upon the questionsas re-cast, extracted above.Accordingly,  the Tribunal drew up a fresh statement of	 thecase  and  re-submitted it to the High Court.  On  this	 re-statement  of  the  case, the matter was heard	by  a  Benchconsisting  of Chakravarti, C. J., and Sarkar, J.  The	HighCourt considered the terms of s. 10(6) of the Act, and	cameto the conclusion that the case had not been brought  withinthose terms.  The High Court, in the course of its  opinion,observed  that	though the assessee is undoubtedly  a  tradeassociation,  it did not perform any specific  services	 forits  members for remuneration.	It then examined  in  detailthe decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of  NativeShare and Stock Brokers' Association v. The Commissioner  ofIncome-tax (1), relied upon by the Department, and  observedthat  the differences pointed out between the case  in	handand  the case decided by the Bombay High Court, were  "	 notvital,	though	they are not immaterial ", but	it  was	 notprepared to take the same view of the facts of this case  ashad been taken by the Bombay High Court in the case referredto above, or by the Travancore-Cochin High Court in the caseof  Commissioner  of  Income-tax  v.  Chamber  of  Commerce,Alleppey (2).  The High Court, accepted the argument of	 Dr.Pal,  which  is	 also  addressed to us,	 that  the  words  "performing  specific  services for " were far  stronger	 andmore definite than the words " render service to ", and thatthose  words meant the actual doing of definite acts in	 thenature	of services.  The Court further observed that  thosewords  meant  "	 execute  certain  definite  tasks  in	 theinterests and for the benefit of the latter (that is to say,the  members) under an arrangement of a direct character  ".It further observed that the words " for remuneration" and "definitely related to those services " meant that "  certainspecific tasks must be performed or functions of a  specificcharacter must be discharged for payment and such payment isto  be	made to the association as wages for its  labour  inrespect of those tasks or functions ". In this connection,(1) [1946] 14 I.T.R. 628.(2) [1955] 27 I.T.R. 535.467it may be added that the High Court also made the  followingobservations  bearing  on the construction  of	the  crucialwords of s. 10(6):-"  When	 section 10(6) speaks of a  trade,  professional  orother  similar association performing specific services	 forits  members  for remuneration, it  contemplates,  I  think,services  in regard to matters outside the  mutual  dealingsfor which the Association was formed and for the transactionof which it exists as a mutual association.  If	 performanceof functions even in regard to matters within the objects ofthe  association as a mutual association be  performance  ofspecific service within the meaning of the sub-section, dis-charge of no function can be outside it and everything	donewould be specific service performed.  That, I do not  think,is what the sub-section means and intends ". It is  manifestthat unless the assessee is brought within the terms of sub-s.  (6) of s. 10, the three items of income coming into	 thehands of the Association, would not be chargeable to income-tax.  That subsection is in these terms:-"   (6)	 A  trade,  professional  or   similar	 associationperforming  specific  services	for its	 members  for  remu-neration  definitely  related  to those	 services  shall  bedeemed for the purpose of this section to carry on  businessin  respect  of those services' and the	 profits  and  gainstherefrom shall be liable to tax accordingly ". It has to beobserved  at the outset that the performing of the  servicesof  the description mentioned in that sub-section, may	not,but for the words of that section, have amounted to carryingon  business in respect of those services.  The use  of	 theword " deemed " shows that the legislature was	deliberatelyusing  the fiction of treating something as  business  whichotherwise it may not have been.	 It is also noteworthy	thatthe  sub-section  is couched in rather emphatic	 terms.	  Wehave, therefore, to examine the terms of the sub-section  tosee  whether the three sums of money in question, or any  ofthem, are or is within the ambit of those terms.  The  words"  performing specific services ", in our opinion, mean,  inthe  context,  "  conferring particular benefits  "  on	 themembers.  The word468"  services  " is a term of a very wide import, but  in	 thecontext	 of s. 10 of the Act, its use excludes	its  theolo-gical  or artistic usage.  With reference to a	trade,	pro-fessional or similar association, the performing of specificservices  must mean conferring on its members some  tangiblebenefit	 which otherwise would Dot be available to  them  assuch,  except  for payment received by	the  association  inrespect	 of  those  services.  The word	 "  remuneration  ",though it includes " wages ", may mean	payment,      which,strictly speaking, may not be called	wages  ".  It  is  aterm of much wider import  including	recompense   ",	   "reward	",  " payment ", etc. It, therefore, appears  to  usthat  the learned Chief Justice was not entirely correct  inequating  " remuneration " with " wages ".  The	 sub-sectionfurther	  requires  that  the  remuneration  should   be   "definitely  related  " to the specific services.   In  otherwords,	it should be shown that those services would not  beavailable  to the members or such of them as wish  to  availthemselves  of	those services, but  for  specific  paymentscharged	 by  the association as a fee for  performing  thoseservices.    After   these  observations  bearing   on	 theinterpretation	of the crucial words, we shall	now  examineeach of the three items of income, separately, to  determinethe  question whether they answer, or any of  them  answers,the  description  of " services " contemplated by  the	sub-section.Firstly,  the sum of Rs. 60,750 has been realised from	suchmembers	 as  applied  for and  obtained	 permission  of	 theAssociation to have the use of Authorized Assistants  withinthe  precincts of the Stock Exchange.  There cannot  be	 theleast  doubt that unless those members paid  the  prescribedentrance  fees for one or more Authorized Assistants upto  amaximum	 of  six,  they	 could not  have  the  benefit	thusconferred  upon such members.  Ordinarily, a member  has  totransact  business  in the precincts of the  Association  byhimself or by his business partner if there is a firm ;	 butif that member is a very busy person, and wishes to avail ofthe services of Authorized Assistants, he has to pay the theprescribed  fee.   A  member of the  Association,  with	 theadvantage of mutuality, so long as he transacts469business within the precincts of the Association, by himselfor by his partner in the case of a firm, is not required  topay any such entrance fee but only the fee payable by  everymember	as  such.   The	 entrance  fee,	 thus,	is   clearlychargeable only from such of the members as avail themselvesof the benefit conferred by the rules of the Association  inthat  behalf.  The entrance fee is, thus, a price  paid	 forthe   services	of  the	 Association  in   making   suitablearrangements for an absentee member to transact business  onhis  behalf and in his name by his representative or  agent.The  entrance  fee  in question, therefore,  cannot  but  beascribed   to	the  specific  services	 rendered   by	 theAssociation  in	 respect of Authorized Assistants  who	thusbecome	competent  to transact business on behalf  of  theirprincipal.Coming next to the sum of Rs. 15,687 which was realised fromthe  members  by  way of subscription in  respect  of  theirAuthorized Assistants, it is clear that this sum consists ofthe   contributions   severally	  made	 by   the    membersperiodically,  so  as  to  continue  to	 have  the   benefitconferred  by  the Association of having the  use  of  theirrepresentative	or agent even during their  absence.   Therecannot	be the least doubt that this is a  very	 substantialbenefit	 to those members who found it worth their while  toengage	the services of Authorized Assistants.	A member  isnot obliged, as indicated above, to have such an  Assistant,but  the fact that he chooses to have such an  Assistant  onpayment	 of the prescribed fee or subscription,	 itself,  isproof positive that a businessman, who ordinarily thinks  interms  of  money,  has	found it  worth-while  to  have	 theservices of an Assistant by making an additional payment  tothe  Association by way of recompense for the benefit,	thusconferred upon him.Lastly, the sum of Rs. 16,000 represents fees received	frommembers	 for  allowing their application for  enlisting	 thenames  of companies not already on the Quotations  List,  sothat the shares and stocks of these companies, may be placedon  the Stock Market.  As already indicated, it is  not	 thecompany	 concerned which has directly to pay this  fee,	 butthe fee has to470be  paid  by  the member who  initiates	 the  proposal	and,apparently, finds it worth his while to pay that  prescribedfee  to	 the  Association.  He would not  make	the  paymentunless he found it worth his while to do so Apparently, sucha member is interested in placing the stocks of that companyon  the market.	 It cannot, therefore, be denied  that	thatsum of money is definitely related to the specific  servicesperformed by the Association, namely, to permit transactionsin  respect  of the shares of the company  concerned,  whichservices would not otherwise be available to the members  asa body or to the individual member or members interested  inthat company.In our opinion, therefore, each one of the three sources  ofincome	to the Association, accrues to it on account of	 itsperforming  those specific services in accordance  with	 itsrules  and by laws.  Each one of the three distinct  sourcesof revenue to the Association, is specifically	attributableto  the distinct services performed by the  Association	 forits  members  or such of them as avail themselves  of  thosebenefits.   And	 each one of those  services  is  separatelycharged for, according to the rate or schedule laid down  bythe  rules and by-laws of the Association.  In our  opinion,therefore,  the	 requirements of sub-s. (6) of s.  10,	havebeen fulfilled in the present case.But  we have yet to deal with the last argument accepted  bythe High Court, with reference to the terms of sub-s. (6) ofs. 10, namely, that the services contemplated therein,	havereference to " matters outside the mutual dealings for whichthe  Association was formed ". In the first place, there  isno warrant for limiting the application of the words used bythe  legislature,  in  the  way	 suggested.   Secondly,	 themutuality  of the Association extends only to such  benefitsas accrue to every member on the payment made by him to	 theAssociation, but even if additional items of payment have tobe  made  for  additional services to be  performed  by	 theAssociation only for such of the members as avail themselvesof  those  benefits, it cannot be said	that  the  mutualityextends	 to those additional benefits also.  It is,  in	 ouropinion,471equally	 wrong	to  suggest that the  services	in  questionshould have been outside the objects of the Association.  Ifthe  Association renders services to such of its members  asavail  themselves  of such services as are  not	 within	 thescope  of the business activities of the Association,  thosebenefits, if any, would not be' conferred by the Associationas such, because the Association has to function within	 thescope of its objects of incorporation.Hence, on a true construction of the provisions of the	sub-section in question, we have come to the conclusion that thefacts and circumstances of the present case, bring the threeitems  of  income  of  the  Association	 within	 the  taxingstatute.   In our opinion, the decision of the Bench of	 theBombay	High Court, consisting of Stone, C. J.,	 and  Kania,J., (as he then was), in the case of Native Share and  StockBrokers'  Association  v.  Commissioner	 of  Income-tax	  iscorrect,  and  the facts of that case run very	parallel  tothose  of  the	case  in band, though  there  may  be  minordifferences in the rules and by-laws of the Association thenbefore	the  Bombay  High Court.  In that case,	 as  in	 thepresent	 one,  the rules of the Stock  Brokers'	 Association(the  Bombay Stock Exchange) contemplated a definite  schemefor allowing members to employ authorized clerks and for theadmission, conduct, control and supervision of those clerks,for the benefit primarily of the members who employed  them.It  was held by the High Court that the income	received  bythe  Association  by  way  of  fees  in	 respect  of   thoseauthorized clerks, was within the taxing statute and  liableto income-tax.	After examining in detail the provisions  ofthe rules and the by-laws of the Association, Stone, C.	 J.,made the following observations which are equally applicableto  the rules and by-laws of the Association in the  presentcase :-" In my judgment these rules lay down a definite scheme	 andprovide an organised arrangement, controlled and  supervisedby  the Association for the benefit of its members.   In  myopinion the carrying(1)  [1946] 14 I.T.R. 628.472of  their scheme into effect is performing services for	 itsmembers	 by  the Association.  No doubt the benefit  of	 thescheme would redound to the benefit of all members since allwould	have  the  advantage  of   disciplined	 supervisionexercised  over the authorised clerks and remisiers  of	 theothers.	  I  do not think that because the payment  for	 thecarrying  of the scheme is provided for only by members	 whoavail  themselves  of the use of the  authorised  clerks  itmakes any difference."Kania,	J., (as he then was), in a separate  but  concurringjudgment, made the following very pertinent observations:-" A perusal of the rules referred to in the judgment of	 thelearned	  Chief	 Justice  shows	 that  the  institution	  ofauthorised clerks exists for the benefits only of those	 whopay  remuneration of Rs. 100 instead of going to the  marketand  carrying  on  their  business  themselves.	  Individualmembers	 are permitted to work through an agent.   For	thatthe  charge is made.  The rules provide for the	 applicationand grant for such permission, registration of the authoris-ed  clerks on the individuals being recognised as clerks  ofparticular members, supervision over the work of such clerksand particularly to prevent them from registering  contractseither	in their own name or in the name of another  member;and  a	general	 supervision over their	 good  behaviour  iscontemplated............".A  question  was  raised as to whether	these  are  specificservices  to be performed for particular members or  whetherthe rules amount to performance of duties towards members ingeneral.   It  is true that several of the  services  to  berendered  may  be  helpful to the other	 members  for  theirbusiness.  Taken as a whole I consider that as a performanceof  services by the Association for, the benefit of  memberswho pay the remuneration."We  have made these copious quotations from the judgment  ofthe Bombay High Court, because, in our473opinion, they truly apply the provisions of sub-s. (6) of s.10 to associations like the one before us.The  other  case  to  which  our  attention  was  drawn,  isCommissioner of Income-tax v. Chamber of Commerce,  Alleppey(1).  The facts of that case are not similar to those of thecase  before  us, but the ratio decidendi of that  case	 arerelevant.   That  case referred to the Alleppey	 Chamber  ofCommerce.   The Chamber inaugurated a produce  section	withthe  object  of	 promoting the	interests  of  merchants  ingeneral,  and  of  those engaged in the	 produce  trade,  inparticular,  of	 acting as arbitrators	and  collecting	 andpublishing  information	 relating  to  the  produce   trade.Members	 were admitted to the produce section on payment  ofadmission  fees, monthly fees and contributions	 at  certainprescribed  rates.  The question which was referred  to	 theHigh  Court,  was whether the receipts by way  of  fees	 andcontributions,	could  be chargeable under s. 10(6)  of	 theAct, and it was answered in the affirmative.Though	cases  in  England,  by way  of	 precedent  for	 thedecision  of  the case in hand, have not been cited  at	 theBar, apparently because the scheme of the Income-tax law  inEngland is different and the words of the statute are not inparti  material	 yet there are some cases which	 throw	somelight  on the controversy before us.  For example, the	caseof The Carlisle and Silloth Golf Club v. Smith (Surveyor  ofTaxes)	 (2  )	related	 to  a	golf  club  which  was	 notincorporated.	It was admittedly a bonafide members'  club,but  under  one of the terms of its lease, it had  to  admitnon-members to play on its course on payment of " green fees" at certain prescribed rates.	Those fees were paid by	 non-members.   Receipts  from those fees were  entered  in	 thegeneral accounts of the Club, thus, showing an annual excessof receipts over expenditure of the Club as a whole.  It washeld  by  Hamilton,  J., (as he then  was),  that  the	Clubcarried	 on  a concern or business in respect  of  which  itreceived  remuneration which was assessable to	'income-tax.He pointed out that the(1)  [1955] 27 I.T.R. 535.(2) (1912) 6 Tax Cas. 48.60474receipts  from non-members went to augment the funds of	 theClub,  and  the revenue thus received was  applied  for	 thepurposes  of the Club-towards its general expenditure.	 Thecase  was taken up to the Court of Appeal, and the  decisionof that Court is reported in the same Volume at p. 198.	 TheCourt  of  appeal affirmed the decision	 and  dismissed	 theappeal.The  Judgment of the King's Bench Division in The  LiverpoolCorn Trade Association, Limited v. Monks (H. M. Inspector ofTaxes) (1) was based on facts which are similar to the factsof the present case.  In that case, the Liverpool Corn TradeAssociation,  Limited,	was an incorporated body  under	 theCompanies  Act, with the object, inter alia,  of  protectingthe interests of the corn trade, and of providing a clearinghouse,	a  market, an exchange, and  arbitration  and  otherfacilities to the trade.  Membership of the Association	 wasconfined to persons engaged in the corn trade.	Each  memberwas  required to have one share in the company, and  had  topay an entrance fee and an annual subscription.	 Non-memberscould  also become subscribers.	 Payments were made  to	 theAssociation  by	 members and others  for  services  renderedthrough the clearing house, etc.  The assessee was taxed  onthe  excess of its receipts over expenditure.  On appeal  tothe Special Commissioners, they upheld the assessment.	 Oneof  the points raised before the Special Commissioners,	 wasthat  transactions  with its members were mutual  ones,	 andthat  any surplus arising from such transactions, was not  aprofit assessable to -income-tax.  On appeal, the High Courtagreed with the determination of the Special  Commissioners,and  held  that any profit arising  from  the  Association'stransactions  with members, was assessable to income tax  aspart  of the profits of its business, and that the  entrancefees  and  subscriptions  received  from  members  must	  beincluded in the computation of such profits.It was suggested that the service in this case, if any,	 wasextremely  trivial and the remuneration which was large	 wasfor that reason not definitely related to the(1)  (1926) Tax Cas. 442.475service.   It  was held by Upjohn, J., in Bradbury  (H.	  M.Inspector  of  Taxes) v. Arnold (1) that the extent  of	 theservices  was  of no materiality.  There, the  question	 wasbeing dealt with under Case VI of Schedule D of the  Income-tax Act, 1918.	The learned Judge observed :"  There is no doubt that a contract for services  may,	 andclearly does, form a matter for assessment under Case VI  ofSchedule  D,  and not the less so that the  services  to  berendered  are trivial or that they are to be  rendered	onceand  for all so that the remuneration may be regarded  as  acasual	profit	arising,  out  of  a  single  and   isolatedtransaction".The  same  view	 was expressed by  Harman,  J.,	 in  Housden(Inspector of Taxes) v. Marshall (2).  In that case, a well-known  jockey 'contracted with a newspaper company  to	makeavailable  to  its nominee " reminiscences of his  life	 andexperiences on the turf for the purpose of writing a  seriesof  four  articles  ", and  to	provide	 photographs,  presscuttings,  etc.	  He was paid pound 750.  The  question	 waswhether this amounted to sale of property, or was a  paymentfor services rendered.	It was held that it was the  latter,and  that  it  did not matter if the  service  rendered	 wastrivial.In  view of what we have said above as to the nature of	 theservice	 which the Association performed in respect  of	 theAssistants, the payment of the fee was definitely related tothat  service.	It is, therefore, plain that the  case	fellwithin	s.  10(6) of the Act.  It must, therefore,  be	heldthat  the  question referred to the High Court	should	havebeen  answered in the affirmative, and that the	 High  Courtwas in error in giving its opinion to the contrary.The appeal must, accordingly, be allowed with costs here andbelow.(1) [1957] 37 Tax Cas. 665, 669.Appeal allowed.(2)  [1958] 3 All E.R. 639.476