PETITIONER:OM PRAKASH GUPTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF U. P.(with connected appeals)DATE OF JUDGMENT:11/01/1957BENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDABENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDADAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  458		  1957 SCR  423ACT:Implied	 repeal-Whether s. 409 of the Indian Penal  Code  isimpliedly  repealed  by	 s. 5(I)(c)  of	 the  Prevention  ofCorruption Act, 1947 (11 Of 1947)-Whether the application ofs.  4o9	 of  the  Indian Penal	Code  to  a  public  servantinfringes  Art.	 14  of	 the  Constitution  Sanction-Whethersanction  under	 s. 6 of the Prevention	 of  Corruption	 Actnecessary  for prosecution under s. 409 of the Indian  PenalCode.HEADNOTE:The  offences under s. 409 Of the Indian Penal Code  and  s.5(1)(c)	 of  the  Prevention of	 Corruption  Act,  1947	 aredistinct  and  separate,  and there is	no  question  Of  s.5(1)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947  repealings. 409 of the Indian Penal Code.Amarendra  Nath Roy v. The State, A. 1. R. [1955] Cal.	236,approved.The legislature would not have intended in the normal courseof  things, that a temporary statute like the Prevention  ofCorruption  Act,  1947,	 should supersede  an  enactment  ofantiquity like the Indian Penal Code.In the view that the two offences under S. 409 Of the IndianPenal  Code and s. 5(I)(c) of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct  are distinct and separate there is no  infringement  ofArt. 14 Of the55424Constitution  in  the application of S. 409  of	 the  IndianPenal Code to a public servant.Sanction  under	 s. 6 of the Prevention of  Corruption	Act,1947 is not necessary for a prosecution under s. 409 of	 theIndian Penal Code.State  v. Pandurang Baburao, A. I. R. (1955) Bom. 451,	BhupNarain Saxena v. State, A. 1. R. (1952) All. 35 and State v.Gulab Singh, A. 1. R. (1954) Raj. 211, approved.State v. Gurcharan Singh, (,952) Punj. 89, overruled.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION Criminal Appeals No. 42  of1954 and Nos. 3 and 97 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly  7,  1953,	 of the Allahabad  High	 Court	in  CriminalRevision  No. 1113 of 1953 arising out of the  judgment	 andorder  dated June 24, 1953, of the Court of Sessions  Judge,Kumaun, in Criminal Appeal No. 42 of 1953 (N).	Appeal underArticle	 134 (1) (c) of the Constitution from  the  judgmentand  order  dated December 23, 1954, of the  Allahabad	HighCourt  (Lucknow Bench) in Criminal Revision No. 141 of	1951and Criminal Miscellaneous Applications Nos. 454 of 1952 and159 of 1953 arising out of the judgment and order dated June4,  1951,  of  the  Civil and  Sessions	 Judge,	 Sitapur  inCriminal  Revision No. 5 of 1951.  Appeal by  special  leavefrom  the judgment and order dated January 16,1952,  of	 theJudicial  Commissioner's  Court, Vindhya Pradesh,  Rewa,  inCriminal  Revision  No.	 216  of 1951  arising	out  of	 thejudgment and order dated September 29, 1951, of the Court ofSessions Judge at Rewa in Criminal Appeal No. 14 of 1951.S.   C.	 Isaacs	 and P. C. Agarwala, for  the  appellant  inCriminal Appeal No., 42 of 1954.S.   C.	 Isaacs and 0. N. Srivastava, for the  appellant  inCriminal Appeal No. 3 of 1953.S.   C. Isaacs, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and RameshwarNath, for the appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 97 of 1955.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent in CriminalAppeals Nos. 42 of 1954 and 3 of 1955.425Porus  A.  Mehta  and R. H. Dhebar, for	 the  respondent  inCriminal Appeal No. 97 of 1955.1957.  January 11.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGOVINDA MENON J.-Though these three appeals have been  filedagainst	 the  decisions	 of different  courts  and  are	 notconnected  either  as regards community or  purpose  or	 theidentity  of  the  accused they have  beer  heard  together,because	 the points of law raised in them are identical	 andthe  arguments	of counsel have proceeded on  common  lines.Hence a common judgment dealing with the legal aspect  wouldbe apt in the circumstances.Criminal  Appeal  No. 42 of 1954 has been  preferred  by  OmPrakash Gupta against the dismissal of his Revision Petitionby  the	 High  Court of	 Allahabad,  thereby  affirming	 theappellate  decision of the Sessions Judge of Kumaun  who  inhis  turn maintained the sentence of  rigorous	imprisonmentfor  one year and a fine of Rs. 500 passed on the  appellantby the Special 1st Class Magistrate of Nainital on April 30,1953, under s. 409 of the Indian Penal Code.  This appellantwas a clerk in the Electric Department of Haldwani MunicipalBoard and the charge against him was that he received  threesums of money:Rs. 242/5/9(Ex.	 P. 14) on July 28, 1951,Rs. 70/-  (Ex.	P. 17) on October 19, 1951,Rs. 135/- (Ex.	P. 13) on October 23, 1951.aggregating  to	 Rs. 447/5/9 and misappropriated  the  wholeamount,	 though	 his defence was that  having  received	 themoney,	he  gave  it to his  official  superior,  ElectricalEngineer  Pandey; and did not have anything more to do	withthe  money.  The Police charge sheet was under ss.  409	 and467  of the Indian Penal Code, but the conviction  was	onlyunder  the  former  section.  The  conviction  and  sentenceimposed upon him by the trial court having been confirmed inappeal by the learned Sessions Judge and further having beenaffirmed  by dismissal of his revision by the High Court  ofAllahabad, have now become the subject of126appeal, as special leave has been granted on the question oflaw raised.Om Prakash, the appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 3 of  1955,had  obtained  leave  to  appeal  from	the  High  Court  ofAllahabad against the opinion of a Full Bench of that  courtin  Criminal Revision No. 141 of 1951, by which it  affirmedthe  order  of the Civil and Sessions Judge  of	 Sitapur  inCriminal  Revision No. 5 ,if 1951, holding that	 Om  Prakashwas  improperly discharged by the learned Magistrate  of  anoffence tinder s. 409, Indian Penal Code, and directing	 theMagistrate to make a further inquiry into the matter of thatoffence.   It  may be mentioned that the learned  1st  ClassMagistrate   held  that	 sanction  was	essential  for	 theprosecution  of	 Om  Prakash and as the same  had  not	beengranted,  the prosecution was not maintainable.	  This	viewdid not find acceptance at the hands of the learned SessionsJudge,	whose  decision was affirmed by the  High  Court  ofAllahabad.   The  charge  against him was that	as  a  canalaccountant  in a Divisional Engineer's office  he  committedcriminal breach of trust of a certain sum of money.Lal  Ramagovind Singh, the appellant in Criminal Appeal	 No.97  of 1955, was the Director of Agriculture in	 the  IndianState  of  Rewa	 and for the  offence  of  having  committedcriminal  breach  of trust of an amount of Rs.	586/10/-  onDecember  4,  1948, he was prosecuted under s.	409  of	 theIndian	Penal Code, on August 13, 1949, and  after  inquiry,charges	 were  framed  against him  on	February  24,  1950,resulting in a judgment of conviction by the trial court  onSeptember  29, 1950, and a sentence of one  year's  rigorousimprisonment  and  a  fine of Rs. 500.	His  appeal  to	 theSessions  Judge was dismissed on September 29,1951, and	 therevision  to the Judicial Commissioner shared the same	fateon  January 16, 1952.  Special leave having been granted  tohim, Criminal Appeal No. 97 of 10-55 was the outcome.The first question for consideration is whethers. 409 of theIndian Penal Code, in so far as it applies to	  a   publicservant	 (in this case the three appellants were  admittedlypublic servants), has been impliedly			    427repealed by the enactment of ss. 5 (1) (c) and 5 (2) of	 thePrevention of Corruption Act II of 1947, and if 'that is so,whether	 a prosecution of the appellants for an	 offence  ofcriminal breach of trust without the requisite sanction	 andwithout	 conforming to the provisions of the  Prevention  ofCorruption  Act,  can  be  legally  sustained.	 Two   otherquestions  have	 also  been urged before us  and  they	are:Assuming  that there was no such implied repeal,  would	 theapplication  of s. 409 of the Indian Penal Code to a  publicservant	 infringe Art. 14 of the Constitution, now that	 theprovisions  of	the  Prevention of Corruption  Act  and	 theprocedure laid down thereunder are available to deal with  abreach	of  trust  by a public servant; 'and  next,  if	 theappellants  do not succeed on the first two points,  whetherthe  provision	for sanction required by the  Prevention  ofCorruption  Act would also similarly apply to a	 prosecutionunder s. 409 of the Indian Penal Code.What  is  first to be determined is whether s.	409  of	 theIndian	Penal  Code,  deals with the same  offence  as	thatcontemplated under ss. 5(1)(c) and 5(2) of the Prevention ofCorruption Act, and if so, has there been an overlapping  oflegislation  over  the same field; and has  the	 latter	 oneimpliedly  repealed  the  earlier.   For  that	purpose	 theprovisions  of	the  two  statutes  have  to  be  succinctlyanalysed to understand the full scope and the import of	 thetwo.The fasciculus of sections contained in Chapter XVII of	 theIndian Penal Code beginning with s. 405 of the Indian  PenalCode  and ending with section 409 of the Indian	 Penal	Codedeals  with  criminal breach of trust.	Section 405  of	 theIndian	Penal Code defines criminal breach of trust  and  s.409  of	 the  -Indian Penal Code is an	aggravated  form  ofcriminal  breach  of trust when the same is committed  by  apublic servant, banker, merchant, etc.	Analysing s. 405  ofthe Indian Penal Code, into its component ingredients, it isseen that the following essential ingredients are absolutelynecessary to attract the operation of the section:(i)  The accused must be entrusted with property or dominionover property;428(ii) The   person   so	entrusted  must	  (a,)	 dishonestlymisappropriate or convert to his own use that property, or(b)  dishonestly use or dispose of that property or wilfullysuffer any other person to do so in violation(1)  of any direction of law prescribing the mode in which  suchtrust is to be discharged, or(11) of	 any legal contract made touching the  discharge  ofsuch trust.In the above cases he is said to commit a criminal breach oftrust.Section	 409  of  the  Indian  Penal  Code  lays  down	 thepunishment  when such criminal breach of trust is  committedby a public-servant, banker, merchant, etc.Now we have to ascertain the provisions of the Prevention ofCorruption Act dealing with criminal misconduct.The  preamble of the Act makes it clear that  the  intentionwas to make more effective provisions for the prevention  ofbribery and corruption.	 From this itself, it is clear	thatthe  legislature was alive to the fact that  something	morestringent  and drastic than s. 409 of the Indian Penal	Codewas  necessary	in  the case of bribery	 and  corruption  byPublic servants and it was to effectuate that intention thatthe  Act was put on the statute book.  The duration of	thispiece  of legislation in the first instance was only  for  aperiod	of five years which later on was extended by Act  IIof  1952 for ten years which would mean	 that  automaticallythe Act would expire by about the middle of 1957.Section	 3  lays down that offences under ss. 161,  165	 and165-A of the Indian Penal Code which under the provisions ofthe  Criminal  Procedure Code were not cognizable  are	madecognizable.   Section 5 enacts that where a  public  servantaccepts, agrees to or obtains gratification other than legalremuneration, then it shall be presumed unless the  contraryis proved, that he accepted, obtained or agreed to accept orattempted to obtain that gratification or valuable thing  asa  'motive or reward such as is mentioned in  ,section	161,etc., etc.  Sub-section 2 of s. 4 also deals			    429with  this presumption.	 We are concerned in  these  appealswith  s. 5. Sub-sections I (a) and 1 (b) of s. 5,  which  isdesignated  as criminal misconduct in discharge of  officialduty  by a public servant, deal with persons who  habituallyaccept or obtain or agree to obtain gratification other thanlegal remuneration as a motive or reward as mentioned in  s.161 of the Indian Penal Code.  It is -not necessary to	dealwith  these  two subclauses in detail because  there  is  noquestion  of any acceptance of illegal gratification in	 thepresent	 cases	but one thing that has to be  remembered  isthat  these  sub-sections deal with habitual  acceptance  orobtaining,  etc., whereas ss. 161 and 165 deal with  even  asingle	acceptance or obtaining.  The result is	 that  underss.  161 and 165 of the Indian Penal Code a prosecution	 canbe  laid even in the case of a single act by which a  publicservant has accepted an illegal gratification, but in  orderto  attract  cls.  5 (1) (a) and 5(1)  (b),  there  must  behabitual  commission  of the crime.  Any stray or  a  singleinstance would not suffice to bring within the ambit of	 thesection	 the offence as contemplated in ss. 5 (1) (a) and  5(1)  (b).  The result is that the offences under ss.  5	 (1)(a)  and  5 (1) (b) are an aggravated form  of	the  offenceunder ss. 161 and 165 of the Indian Penal Code.As  we	are  concerned with s. 5 (1) (c), the  same  may  bequoted in extenso:"If  he	 dishonestly  or  fraudulently	misappropriates	  orotherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted tohim  or under his control as a public servant or allows	 anyother person so to do."Section	 5  (1) (d) lays down that if a	 public	 servant  bycorrupt	 or  illegal  means  or	 by  otherwise	abusing	 hisposition as a public servant, obtains for himself or for anyother  person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage,  hecommits the offence.Section	 5(2)  makes  the  offence  of	criminal  misconductpunishable with imprisonment which may extend to seven yearsor with fine or with both.  Sub-section (3) is an  importantpiece  of legislation to the effect that where a  person  ischarged	 under	s.  5(1) and it is found  that	the  accusedperson cannot satisfactorily430account	 for  the  pecuniary  resources	 or  property	dis-proportionate to his known sources of income, then  the factthat  he has such extensive pecuniary resources or  propertyis sufficient to presume, until the contrary is proved, thatthe accused person was guilty of criminal misconduct in	 thedischarge  of  his official duty and a conviction  for	thatoffence shall not be invalid by reason only that it is basedsolely	on such presumption.  It is clear,  therefore,	thatwhere a person is charged with criminal misconduct and it isseen  that he is in possession of property or  income  whichcould  not  have  been amassed or  earned  by  the  officialremuneration  which  he	 had obtained,	then  the  court  isentitled to come to the conclusion that the amassing of suchwealth	was due to bribery or corruption and the  person  isguilty	of  an	offence	 of  criminal  misconduct.   Such  apresumption  cannot  be drawn in the case of  a	 prosecutionunder ss. 161, 165 and 409 of the Indian Penal Code.Section 6 provides that for the prosecution of an offence ofcriminal misconduct under s. 5(2) or for an offence under s.161  or 165 of the Indian Penal Code, previous	sanction  isnecessary  of  either the Central Government  or  the  StateGovernment   or	 the  authority	 competent  to	remove	 theGovernment  servant.  The last section of the statute  is  adeparture   or	deviation  from	 the  procedure	 till	thenobtaining  in a criminal case and thereby an accused  personis  held competent to be a witness on his  behalf.   Whereasunder  s.  342, Indian Penal Code, as it  stood	 before	 therecent	amendment,  no	accused person was  entitled  to  beadministered  on oath and thereby competent to testify in  acourt  of law in a case in which he is accused; under  s.  7any  person charged with an offence punishable under s'	 161or s. 165 or 165-A of the Indian Penal Code, or under sub-s.(2)  of	 s.  5 of the Prevention of  Corruption	 Act,  is  acompetent  witness for the defence and may give evidence  onoath  in  disproof of the charges made against	him  or	 anyperson	charged	 together with him at the  same	 trial;	 andthere are also certain safeguards provided in the matter  ofgiving such testimony.431We have now referred to the relevant provision of Act II  of1947  in  which	 the  most important  one  for	our  presentconsideration is s. 5(1)(c).  It will be useful to institutea comparison between s. 405 of the Indian Penal Code -and s.5(1)(c)	 of Act II of 1947.  The question of entrustment  iscommon	under s. 405 of the Indian Penal Code and  under  s.5(1)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.  Whereas  undersection 405 of the Indian Penal Code dishonest misappropria-tion or conversion to his own use of that property would  bethe  necessary	criterion,  with regard to  s.	5(1)(c)	 themisappropriation or conversion may be either dishonestly  orfraudulently or otherwise.Then again there is a further fact under s. 5(1)(d) that  ifthe public servant by corrupt or illegal means or  otherwiseabuses	his  position as a public servant  and	obtains	 forhimself	 or  for  any other person  any	 valuable  thing  orpecuniary: advantage, then he will be guilty of the offence.We  may,  therefore, give below the ingredients of  the	 twosections:-Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code.1.Entrusting  any person with property or with any  dominionover property.2.   The person entrusted(a)  dishonestly  misappropriating or converting to his	 ownuse that property.(b)  dishonestly  using	 or disposing of  that	property  orwilfully suffering any other person to do so in violation-(i)of  any direction of law prescribing the, mode  in  whichsuch  trust  is	 to  be discharged, or(ii)  of any legal contract made touching the  discharge  ofsuch trust.Prevention of Corruption Act II of 1947: Section 5(1):(c)   dishonestly   or	fraudulently   misappropriating	  orotherwise converting for his own use any property  entrustedto him, or under his control as a public servant or allowingany other person to do so.(d)  If	 he  by	 corrupt or illegal means  or  by  otherwiseabusing his position as a public servant,56432obtains	 for  himself or for any other person  any  valuablething or pecuniary advantage.Now  dishonestly'  as defined in s. 24 of the  Indian  PenalCode  connotes the doing of anything with the  intention  ofcausing	 wrongful  gain to one person or  wrongful  loss  toanother	 person and s. 25 defines I fraudulently as doing  athing  with  intent to defraud but lot, otherwise.   It	 is,therefore,  clear that s. 5 (1) (e) is wider in	 ambit	thansection 405 of the Indian Penal Code.The  argument of the learned counsel for the  appellants  isthat  though  the  offences under  the	two  provisions	 areidentical,  there  are some advantages where  the  trial  isunder  s. 5 (1) (e) and certain disadvantages as well.	 Theadvantages are:-(1)  The punishment for criminal misconduct is less than thepunishment for breach of trust by a public servant;(2)  It	 is  necessary	to obtain previous  sanction  for  aprosecution  under  s.	5 (1) (c), whereas in  the  case  ofbreach	of trust by a public servant, such sanction  may  ormay not be necessary;(3)  The  investigation	 of an offence under s.	 5  (1)	 (c)should	be by an officer of a higher grade though that	doesnot obtain so far as the present appeals are concerned;and(4)  The accused person has the right of giving evidence  onhis behalf.The  disadvantages are that in such a trial the	 presumptionreferred  to in s. 4(3) can be drawn against the accused  ifit  is	found that he has pecuniary resources  for  propertydisproportionate to his known sources of income and also thetwo  presumptions  regarding the acceptance  of	 a  valuablething from any person by a public servant as contemplated insub-ss. (1) and (2) of s. 4. These differences, according tothe  learned  counsel for the appellant, do not in  any	 waymake  the  offence  under s. 5	(1)(c)	different  from	 theoffence under s. 409 of the Indian Penal Code, but that onlyanother	 method of procedure is prescribed and	a  differentmode  of  approach is laid down when an offence under  s.  5(1)(c) is enquired into or tried.433Mr. Isaacs strenuously urges that if there are two differentstatutes, one enacted later than the other, and if the laterstatute	 deals with the same subject matter, the two  cannotstand  together	 and  the earlier  one	being  redundant  orrepugnant must be deemed to have been repealed.	 The  resultis  that  whereas  in this case	 there	are  penal  statutesdealing with the same subject matter' and the penalties	 andprocedure  prescribed  by the, statutes are  different	fromeach  other, then the later one must be taken to  repeal  orsupersede the earlier.Reliance  is  placed on certain	 observations  contained  inZaverbhai Amaidas v. The State of Bombay (1) containing somequotations  from  the  judgment of Goddard J.  in  Smith  v.Benabo	(2)  to	 the following,	 effect:-"That	if  a  laterstatute	 again	describes an offence created by	 a  previousone,  and     imposes a different punishment, or varies	 theprocedure,  the	 earlier statute is repealed  by  the  laterstatute: see Michell v. Brown(3), per Lord Campbell and alsoAttorney-General  for  Ontario v. Attorney-General  for	 theDominion(4 ).On  the	 footing that s. 5 (1) (c) of Act II of	 1947  dealswith  the  same subject with regard to, public	servants  asthat portion of s. 409 of the Indian Penal Code, Mr.  Isaacsdrew  our attention to The State v. Gurcharan Singh(5).	  Inthat  case Falshaw J. in delivering the judgment of a  Benchconsisting of him-self and Khosla J. held that so long as s.5 of Act 11 of 1947 remained in force, the provisions of  s.409  of	 the  Indian Penal Code, so far	 as  it	 related  tooffences  by public, servants, stood repealed.	The  learnedJudge  after  referring	 to the various	 provisions  of	 thePrevention  of Corruption Act came to the above	 conclusion.After adverting to s. 26 of the General Clauses Act and	 itscounterpart,  s.  33  of the  Interpretation  Act  and	alsopassages  from	Maxwell on Interpretation of  Statutes,	 thelearned	 Judge	was of opinion that it is  not	possible  toinfer that there was no implied repeal.Before	we advert to the Indian cases, the first thing	thathas to be remembered in this, connection is that(1)  [1955]  1 S.C.R. 799 at pp. 807-809.  (4)	[1896]	A.C.348.(2) [1937] 1 K.B. 518.		   (5) 1952 Punj. 89.(3)  [1858] 1 E. & E. 267,274; 117 R.R. 206.134he, Prevention of Corruption Act being a temporary one,	 thelegislature would not have intended in the normal course  ofthings	that  a temporary statute like the one	in  questionshould	supersede  an enactment of antiquity,  even  if	 thematter covered the same field.	Under s. 6(a) of the GeneralClauses	 Act if by efflux of time the period of a  temporarystatute which had repealed an earlier statute expires, therewould not be a, revival of the earlier one by the expiry  ofthe temporary statute.A  Full	 Bench	of the Bombay High Court  in  The  State  v.Pandurang  Baburao  (1) held that the language used  by	 thelegislature in s. 5 (4) of the Prevention of Corruption	 Actclearly	 negatived  any	 suggestion  that  the	 legislatureintended  to repeal the provisions of s. 409 of	 the  IndianPenal  Code.   It  cannot also be held that s.	409  of	 theIndian	Penal Code if; impliedly repealed by the  Preventionof  Corruption Act because it is impossible to say that	 theprovisions  of the two are wholly incompatible or  that	 thetwo   statutes	 together  would  lead	to   wholly   absurdconsequences.  Therefore, it was open to the prosecution  toproceed	 with a trial under s. 409 of the Indian Penal	Codeor  under s. 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption  Act	evenbefore	the Amendment of the latter Act by Act LlX  of	1952and of the prosecution was launched under s. 409 and if	 thestatus of the accused was such that no sanction was requiredunder  the provisions of the Criminal Procedure	 Code,	thenthe  prosecution  is  good  and	 the  conviction  Is  propernotwithstanding	 the fact that if the prosecution  had	beenlaunched   under  s.  5(2),  a	sanction  would	 have	beennecessary.   The learned Judges dissented from	the  opinionexpressed  by  Falshaw J. in The state	v.  Gurcharan  Singh(supra)	 and  also overruled certain earlier  Bombay  cases.This court is in agreement with the expression of opinion bythe  learned Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court  in	 theabove Full Bench decision.Ramaswami  J.  of  the	Madras	High  Court  in	 Be.  V.  V.Satyanarayanamurthy(2)	came  to  the  conclusion  that	  s.5(1)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act(1) A.I.R. [1955] Bom.451.(2) A.L.R. [1953] Mad. 137.435does  not  repeal s. 409 of the Indian Penal  Code,  and  heaccordingly dissented from the view taken in the of case TheState v. Gurcharan Singh (supra).The  Calcutta High Court in Amarendra Nath Roy v. The  State(1)  has taken a similar view dissenting from The  State  v.Gurcharan Singh (supra).  There is a large body of case	 lawin  this'  direction and it is unnecessary  to	mention	 allexcept the following:(a)  Mahammad Ali v. The State(2)(b)  Bhup Narain Saxena v. State(3)(c)  Gopal Das v. State (4).As  against  all these cases the lone voice of	the  -PunjabHigh  Court in State v. Garcharan Singh (supra) is the	onlydissentient one and after (Considering the matter carefully,it seems to us that the view taken by the Punjab High  Courtis not sound.We  now	 proceed to consider whether the  two  sections	 areidentical in essence, import and content and in our  opinionthe argument 'on behalf of the State carries much force whenit  is suggested that by enacting, the Amending Act of	1952and  creating  sub s. 4 to s. the  legislature	specificallystated that the offence under s. 5 (1) (c) is different fromany  previous existing offences under any penal statute	 andthere  can, therefore,, be no scope for	 -speculation  aboutrepeal.	  The words used in sub-s. 4 " any other law "	madethe  position quite clear and explicit.	 Other law does	 notmean identical law in which case the word 'other' will	haveno  meaning.  At an earlier stage of this judgment  we	havealready	 tabulated the different elements  constituting	 thetwo  offences and a clear comparison and contrast  of  theseelements  would	 show that an offence under s.	405  of	 theIndian	Penal  Code is separate and distinct  from  the	 oneunder  s. 5 (1) (c).  There are three points  of  differencebetween	 s. 405 of the Indian Penal Code and s. 5  (1)	(c).The dishonest misappropriation contemplated in s. 405 of theIndian Penal Code is different; whereas that under section 5(1)  (c) is either dishonest misappropriation or  fraudulentmisappropriation.   The	 latter section is  much  "wider  inamplitude(1)  A.I.R. [1955] Cal. 236.(2)  A.I.R. [1953] Cal. 681.(3)  A.I.R. [1952] All. 35.(4)  A.I.R. [1954] All.	 80.436than  the  former.  In s. 405 of the Indian Penal  Code	 thewords  used  are  "In  violation of  any  direction  of	 lawprescribing  the  mode	in  -which  such  trust	 is  to	  bedischarged,  or of any legal contract, express or  implied."There are no such expressions in s. 5 (1)(c).  It is  clear,therefore,  that  whereas under s. 405 of the  Indian  PenalCode there are three essential ingredients to constitute theoffence, each one of them being separate and distinct, in s.5(1)(c)	 there	are only two.  Now  considering	 s.  5(1)(c)there are certain matters in it which are absent ins. 405 ofthe   Indian   Penal  Code.   The   words   'dominion'	 and'entrustment'  connote	two different things.	The  word  Idominion' is not in s. 5(1)(c).	 We have already stated thatthe word '.fraudulently' is not present in s. 405 and in  s.5(1)(c) the gist of the offence can also be made out if	 theoffender allows any person so to do, i.e., allows any personto  derogate  from the law as contemplated  in	the  earlierportion	 of  the  section.   The meaning  put  on  the	word'allows'  would	 'certainly be different  from	I  dishonestmisappropriation'  by the offender himself.  It may be	thatthe  word  can mean allowing by negligence  or	without	 anyvolition on the part of the offender.  It may also mean thatthere  is  some	 kind of  positive  and	 tacit	acquiescencenecessary to bring home the offence.  In any event, allowingother  persons so to do does not find a place in s.  405  ofthe Indian Penal Code though this section also	contemplates"wilfully  suffering any other person so to do.	 " There  isan essential difference between " allowing " a person and  "wilfully suffering " a person to do a certain thing. There can, therefore, be no doubt whatever that s.  5(1)(c)of  the Prevention of Corruption Act creates a	new  offencecalled	"criminal  misconduct"	and  cannot  by	 implicationdisplace the offence under s. 405 of the Indian Penal  Code.In  this connection it is useful to compare ss. 5(1)(a)	 and5(1)(b)	 with ss. 161 and 162 of the Indian Penal Code.	  Ashas  already  been  referred  to,  these  two  sections	 areaggravated forms of ss. 161 and 162 of the Indian Penal Codeand the intention cannot be to abrogate the earlier437offence	 by  the  creation of the new  offence.	  These	 twooffences can co-exist and the one will not be considered  asoverlapping  the other.	 A course of' conduct can be  provedwhen  a person is arraigned under ss. 5(1)(a)  and  5(1)(b),but  such a course is impossible to be let in evidence	whenan  offence under ss. 161 and 162 is being enquired into  ortried.	 Similarly there are a number of elements which	 canbe  proved  in	an inquiry or trial under  s.  5(1)(c)	thatcannot be let in by the prosecution when a person is chargedfor an offence under s. 405 of the Indian Penal Code.  In s.405  of	 the Indian Penal Code the  offender  must  wilfullysuffer	 another  person  to  misappropriate  the   propertyentrusted, but in s. 5(1)(c) if he allows another person  todishonestly  or	 fraudulently  misappropriate  or  otherwiseconvert	 for his own use any property so entrusted, then  itis an offence.	There is a vast difference between  wilfullysuffering  another and allowing a person to do a  particularthing  and in our view the word "allows " is much  wider  inits import.  Wilfully pre-supposes a conscious action, whileeven by negligence one can allow another to do a thing.It  seems  to  us,  therefore, that  the  two  offences	 aredistinct and separate.	This is the view taken in  AmarendraNath Roy v. The State (supra) and we endorse the opinion  ofthe  learned  Judges, expressed	 therein.   Our	 conclusion,therefore, is that the -offence created under s. 5(1)(c)  ofthe  Prevention of Corruption Act is distinct  and  separatefrom  the  one under s. 405 of the Indian  Penal  Code	and,therefore, there can be no question of s. 5(1)(c)  repealings.  405	 of  the Indian Penal Code.  If that  is  so,  then,article 14 of the Constitution can be no bar.The  last  argument of Mr. Isaacs is that despite  the	factthat  the  prosecution is under s. 409 of the  Indian  PenalCode,  still  sanction to prosecute is necessary.   Quite  alarge body of case law in all the High Courts has held- thata  public servant committing criminal breach of	 trust	doesnot normally act in his capacity as a public servant, see438(a)  The State v. Pandurang Baburao (supra),(b) Bhup Narain Saxena v. State (supra),       and(c) State v. Gulab Singh(1).We  are	 in  agreement with the view  expressed	 by  Hari  )Shankar and Randhir Singh JJ. that no sanction is  necessaryand  the view expressed by Mulla J. to the contrary  is	 notcorrect.Criminal Appeal No. 3 of 1955 will accordinly be  dismissed.Criminal  Appeals  Nos. 42 of 1954 and 97 of  1955  will  beheard on merits.