PETITIONER:CALCUTTA DISCOUNT COMPANY LIMITED	Vs.RESPONDENT:INCOME-TAX OFFICER, COMPANIES DISTRICT,	 AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:01/11/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASDAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  372		  1961 SCR  (2) 241 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1963 SC1356	 (20) R	    1967 SC 338	 (5) F	    1967 SC 523	 (2) F	    1967 SC 587	 (4,11) E	    1968 SC  49	 (4) R	    1969 SC 944	 (8) F	    1970 SC1011	 (11) D	    1970 SC1982	 (11) F	    1971 SC1635	 (7) R	    1971 SC2074	 (6) RF	    1971 SC2331	 (4) RF	    1973 SC 370	 (11) R	    1973 SC 989	 (13,14) R	    1974 SC 478	 (4) RF	    1975 SC 703	 (11) RF	    1975 SC1268	 (4) RF	    1976 SC1753	 (8) F	    1977 SC 429	 (11) F	    1985 SC 989	 (10) R	    1986 SC1857	 (2,7) R	    1987 SC1897	 (26,35) RF	    1989 SC1088	 (8) RF	    1991 SC 464	 (4)ACT:Income-tax--Income  escaping  assessment--Non-disclosure  ofmaterial  facts	 by assessee--" Material  facts	 ",  meaningof--Indian Income Tax Act. 1922 (11 of 1922), as amended  in1948, s. 34(1)(a), Explanation--Constitution of India,	Art.226.HEADNOTE:The  appellant, a private limited company, was	assessed  toincome	tax  for the assessment years 1942-43,	1943-44	 and1944-45	 by  three separate orders dated January  26,  1944,February 12, 1944, and February 15, 1945, under S. 23(3)  ofthe  Indian  Income  Tax Act on returns	 filed	by  it	withstatements  of	account.  On March 28, 1951,  three  noticesunder S. 34 of the Act were issued calling upon it to submitfresh returns for the said assessment years.  The  appellantfiled  the returns but thereafter applied to the High  Courtunder Art. 226 of the Constitution for writs restraining theIncome-tax Officer from initiating assessment proceedings onthe  basis  of the said notices on the ground,	inter  alia,that  he had no jurisdiction to issue the-said notices.	  Inhis  report to the Commissioner of Income-tax for  obtainingsanction  to  initiate the said proceedings  the  Income-taxOfficer had stated as follows :-"  Profit of Rs. 5,46,002 on sale of shares  and  securitiesescaped assessment altogether.	At the time of the  originalassessment  the then I. T. O. merely accepted the  company'sversion that the sale of shares were casual transactions andwere  in the nature of mere change of investments.  Now	 theresults of the company's trading from year to year show thatthe  company has really been systematically carrying  out  atrade  in the sale of investments.  As such the company	 hadfailed to disclose the true intention behind the sale of theshares as such S. 34(1)(a) may be attracted".The  question for determination was whether in	the  circum-stance	the Income-tax Officer was right in issuing  noticeson the assessee under S. 34(1)(a) of the Act.Held, (per S.  K. Das, K. C. Das Gupta and N. R.  Ayyangar,jj.),  that  before  the Income-tax Officer  could  issue  anotice under $'. 34(1)(a) of the Indian Income-tax Act,	 twoconditions  precedent  must co-exist, namely, that  he	musthave reason to believe (i) that income, profits or gains hadbeen  under-assessed and (2) that such under-assessment	 wasdue to non-disclosure of material facts by the assessee.242Although what facts would be necessary and material for	 theassessment in a particular case must depend on the facts  ofthat  case,  there  could be no doubt  that  the  burden  ofdisclosing  all the primary facts must invariably be on	 theassessee.The  Explanation to S. 34(1) made it clear that that  burdencould  not  be	fully discharged  by  simply  producing	 theaccount	 books	and other documents, but the  assessee	mustalso disclose such specific items or portions thereof as arerelevant to the assessment.  But once he has done so, it  isfor the Income-tax Officer to draw the proper inferences  offact  and law therefrom and the assessee cannot	 further  becalled	upon  to do so for him.	 The  Explanation  does	 notenlarge	 the  scope of the section so as to  include  "	 thedisclosure " of such inferences.The  question whether by the sale of shares the assessee  inthe  instant case intended to change the form of  investmentor to make a business profit was one of an inferential	factand  the  failure to disclose such intention  could  not  byitself	amount	to  a  failure or  omission  to	 disclose  amaterial fact within the meaning of S. 34(1)(a) of the Act.Where,	however,  the  Income-tax Officer  has	prima  faciereasonable grounds for believing that there has been a	non-disclosure of a primary material fact, that by itself  giveshim  the jurisdiction to issue a notice under s. 34  of	 theAct,  and the adequacy or otherwise of the grounds  of	suchbelief is not open to investigation by the Court.  It is forthe  assessee  who wants to challenge such  jurisdiction  toestablish  that the Income-tax Officer had no  material	 forsuch belief.Since, in the instant case, there was no non-disclosure of aprimary	 material  fact	 which the  assessee  was  bound  todisclose  under	 S.  34(1)(a) of  the  Act,  the  Income-taxOfficer	 had  no  jurisdiction	to  issue  the	notices	  inquestion.It is incorrect to say that the question of under-assessmentby reason of non-disclosure of a material fact was  relevantonly  for the purpose of applying either the longer  or	 theshorter	 period of limitation prescribed by the section	 andnot for jurisdiction and, therefore, not a proper matter forinvestigation under Art. 226 of the Constitution.The  High  Courts have ample powers under Art.	226  of	 theConstitution,  and  are in duty bound thereunder,  to  issuesuch  appropriate orders or directions as are  necessary  inorder  to  prevent persons from being subjected	 to  lengthyproceedings  and  unnecessary harassments  by  an  executiveauthority acting without jurisdiction.	Alternative remediessuch as are provided by the Income-tax Act cannot always  bea  sufficient reason for refusing quick relief in a fit	 andproper case.Per  Hidayatullah,  J.-The Explanation to s.  34(1)  of	 theIndian Income-tax Act clearly indicates that the-duty of theassessee  thereunder  does  not	 end  by  merely   producingevidence  or disclosing the primary facts, but also  extendsto the disclosure243of  such  other	 facts relating to  status,  agency,  benaminature of the transaction, the nature of the trading and thelike,  which he knows but do not appear from  the  evidence,and  which may be necessary for interpreting  the  evidence.If  the	 evidence  produced  hides  nothing  and   discloseseverything, the assessee cannot be subjected to s. 34 merelybecause the Income-tax Officer misinterprets such  evidence.But it is otherwise if the assessee raises a contention thatis  contrary to fact and requires the Income-tax Officer  todiscover the truth for himself for that would be to suppressa material fact that would attract the section.Since, in the present case, an investment company dealing instocks	and shares, not only knowingly suppressed that	factbut  contended	otherwise,  there was  non-disclosure  of  amaterial  fact necessary for its assessment, and  sufficientto attract S. 34(1) (a)	 of the Act.Per Shah, J.-The expression " has reason to believe " in  s.34(1)(a) of the Indian Income-tax Act does not mean a purelysubjective  satisfaction  of  the  Income-tax  Officer	 butpredicates the existence of reasons on which such belief hasto be founded.	That belief, therefore, cannot be founded onmere  suspicion	 and  must  be based  on  evidence  and	 anyquestion  as  to  the adequacy of such	evidence  is  whollyimmaterial at that stage.Whether all the material facts necessary for the  assessmenthad  or	 had  not  been	 fully	and  truly  disclosed  in  aparticular  case  has to be examined, in the  fight  of	 theExplanation to S. 34(1)(a).If  there  is disclosure of some facts but not	all,  a	 taxpayer cannot resist reassessment on the plea that such	non-disclosure was due to the negligence or inadvertence on	 thepart  of the Income-tax Officer to scrutinise the  materialsbefore him.Where the existence of reasonable belief that there bad beenunder-assessment  due  to non-disclosure  by  the  assessee,which  is  a condition precedent to exercise  of  the  powerunder s. 34(1)(a) is asserted by the assessing authority andthe  record prima facie supports its existence, any  enquiryas to whether the authority could reasonably hold the beliefthat  the under assessment was due to non-disclosure by	 theassessee  of  material facts necessary	for  the  assessmentmust, be barred.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE	 JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 197 of 1954.Appeal	from  the Judgment and Order dated the	25th  March,1953,  of  the Calcutta High Court in Appeal  from  OriginalOrder No. 54 of 1953.Sachin Chaudhury, Sukumar Mitter, S. N. Mukherjee and D.  N.Ghosh, for the appellant.244K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondents.1960.	November  1. The Judgment of S. K. Das,	 K.  C.	 DasGupta  and N. Rajagopala Ayyangar, JJ., was delivered by  K.C.  Das	 Gupta, J. M. Hidayatullah, J. and J. C.  Shah,	 J.,delivered separate Judgments.DAS GUPTA J.-This appeal is against an appellate decision ofa  Bench of the Calcutta High Court by which in reversal  ofthe  order  made by the Trial Judge the Bench  rejected	 thepresent	 appellant's  application  under  Art.	226  of	 theConstitution.	The appellant is a private  limited  companyincorporated  under  the Indian Company's Act  and  has	 itsregistered  office in Calcutta.	 It was assessed to  income-tax for the assessment years, 1942-43, 1943-44- and  1944-45by  three separate orders dated January 26,  1944,  February12,  1944,  and	 February  15,	1945,  respectively.   Theseassessments  were,made under s. 23(3) of the Indian  Income-tax  Act upon returns filed by it accompanied by  statementsof  account.  The first two assessments were made by Mr.  L.D.  Rozario the then Income-tax Officer and the last one  byMr.  K. D. Banerjee.  The taxes assessed were duly paid	 up.On  March 28, 1951, three notices purporting to be under  s.34  of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, were issued  by	 theincome-tax Officer calling upon the company to submit  freshreturns	 of  its  total income and the	total  world  incomeassessable  for the three accounting years relating  to	 thethree  assessment years, 1942-43 1943-44 and  1944-45.	 Theappellant company furnished re. turns in compliance with thenotices but on September 18, 1951, applied to the High Courtof Calcutta for issue under Art. 226 of the Constitution  ofappropriate writs or orders directing the Income-tax Officernot  to proceed to assess it on the basis of these  notices.The  first  ground  on	which  this  prayer  was  based	 wasmentioned  in  the  petition  in  these	 terms:-"  The	saidpretended  notice  was issued without the existence  of	 thenecessary  conditions precedent which  confers	jurisdictionunder section 34 aforementioned, whether			    245before	or after the amendment in 1948 ". The  other  groundurged was that the amendment to s. 34 of the Income-tax	 Actin  1948 was not retrospective and that the  assessment	 forthe  years 1942-43, 1943-44 and 1944-45 became	barred	longbefore March 1951.The Trial Judge held that the first ground was not made	 outbut  being of opinion that the amending Act of 1948 was	 notretrospective, he held that the notices issued were  withoutjurisdiction.  Accordingly he made an order prohibiting	 theIncome-tax   Officer   from   continuing   the	  assessmentproceedings on the basis of the impugned notices.The  learned  Judges who heard the appeal  agreed  with	 theTrial  Judge  that the first ground had not been  made	out.They held however that in consequence of the amendment of s.34  in 1948 the objection on the ground of  limitation	mustalso  fail.  A point of constitutional law which appears  tohave been raised before the appeal court was also  rejected.The  appeal was allowed and the company's application  underArt. 226 was dismissed with costs.The Company has preferred the present appeal on the strengthof  a  certificate  issued  by the  High  Court	 under	Art.133(1)(a) of the Constitution.The  only  point raised before us is that the  courts  belowwere wrong in holding that the first ground that the noticeswere   issued  without	the  existence	of   the   necessaryconditions precedent which confers jurisdiction under s.  34had not been made out.	As it is no longer disputed that  s.34 as amended in 1948 applies to the present case we have toconsider  the  section as it stood after  the  amendment  in1948,  in  deciding  this  question  of	 jurisdiction.	 Therelevant portion of the section was in these words :-" 34.  Income escaping assessment.-(1) If-(a) the Income-tax Officer has reason to believe that  byreason of the omission or failure on the part of  anassessee to make a return of his income under s.  22 for anyyear  or  to disclose fully and truly  all   material  factsnecessary for his assessment for that year, income,  profitsor gain chargeable to income-tax have escaped assessment forthat year, or have been246under-assessed, or assessed at too low a rate, or have	beenmade  the  subject  of excessive relief under  the  Act,  orexcessive loss or depreciation allowance has been  computed,or(b)  notwithstanding  that  there has been  no	omission  orfailure	 as  mentioned	in clause (a) on  the  part  of	 theassessee,  the	Income-tax  Officer has	 in  consequence  ofinformation in his possession reason to believe that income,profits	 or  gains  chargeable to income  tax  have  escapedassessment  for	 any year, or have been	 under-assessed,  orassessed at too low a rate or have been made the subject  ofexcessive  relief under this Act, or that excessive loss  ordepreciation allowance has been computed.He may in cases falling under clause (a) at any time  withineight  years  and in cases falling under clause (b)  at	 anytime within four years of the end of that year, serve on theassessee, or, if the assessee is a company, on the principalofficer	 thereof,  a  notice containing all or	any  of	 therequirements  which may be included in a notice	 under	sub-section	 (2)  of  section 22 and may proceed  to  assess  orreassess such income, profits or gains or recompute the lossor  depreciation allowance; and the provisions of  this	 Actshall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the  noticewere a notice issued under that sub-section:-Provided that-(i)  the  Income-tax Officer shall not issue a notice  underthis  subsection,  unless he has recorded  his	reasons	 fordoing  so and the Commissioner is satisfied on such  reasonsrecorded that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice;(ii) the  tax  shall be chargeable at the rate at  which  itwould have been charged had the income, profits or gains notescaped	 assessment or full assessment, as the case may	 be;and(iii)	  where	 the  assessment made or to be	made  is  anassessment  made or to be made on a person deemed to be	 theagent  of a non-resident person under section 43, this	sub-section	 shall	have effect as if for the periods  of  eightyears and four years a period of one year was substituted.			    247Explanation-Production	before	the  Income-tax	 Officer  ofaccount-books  or other evidence from which  material  factscould  with  due  diligence have  been'	 discovered  by	 theIncome-tax Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosurewithin the meaning of, this section."To confer jurisdiction under this section to issue notice inrespect of assessments beyond the period of four years,	 butwithin a period of eight years, from the end of the relevantyear  two  conditions have therefore to be  satisfied.	 Thefirst  is  that the Income-tax Officer must have  reason  tobelieve that income, profits or gains chargeable to  income-tax  have been under-assessed.	The second is that  he	musthave  also reason to believe that such " under assessment  "has occurred by reason of either (i) omission or failure  onthe part of an assessee to make a return of his income unders.  22,	 or  (ii)  omission or failure on  the	part  of  anassessee  to  disclose fully and truly	all  material  factsnecessary  for	his assessment for that	 year.	 Both  theseconditions  are conditions precedent to be satisfied  beforethe  Income-tax Officer could have jurisdiction to  issue  anotice for the assessment or re-assessment beyond the periodof four years but within the period of eight years, from theend of the year in question.No dispute appears to have been raised at any stage in	thiscase  as  regards  the	first  condition  not  having	beensatisfied  and we proceed on the basis that  the  Income-taxOfficer had in fact reason to believe that there had been anunder-assessment  in each of the assessment years,  1942-43,1943-44	 and  1944-45.	The appellant's case has  all  alongbeen  that  the	 second condition  was	not  satisfied.	  Asadmittedly  the	 appellant had filed its  return  of  incomeunder s. 22, the Income-tax Officer could have no reason  tobelieve that under-assessment had resulted from the  failureto  make a return of income.  The only question	 is  whetherthe  Income-tax Officer had reason to believe that  "  therehad  been  some omission or failure to	disclose  fully	 andtruly all material facts necessary248for  the assessment " for any of these years in	 consequenceof which the under-assessment took place.Before we proceed to consider the materials on record to seewhether	 the  appellant has succeeded ,in showing  that	 theIncome-tax  Officer could have no reason, on  the  materialsbefore	him, to believe that there had been any omission  todisclose material facts, as mentioned in the section, it  is necessary to examine the precise scope of disclosure whichthe  section  demands.	 The words used are  "	omission  orfailure	 to  disclose  fully and truly	all  material  factsnecessary for his assessment for that year ". It  postulatesa  duty	 on every assessee to disclose fully and  truly	 allmaterial facts necessary for his assessment.  What facts arematerial, and necessary for assessment will differ from caseto  case.   In every assessment	 proceeding,  the  assessingauthority will, for the purpose of computing or	 determiningthe proper tax due from an assessee, require to know all thefacts  which help him in coming to the	correct	 conclusion.From  the  primary  facts  in  his  Possession,	 whether  ondisclosure  by	the assessee, or discovered by	him  on	 thebasis  of  the facts disclosed, or  otherwise-the  assessingauthority  has to draw inferences as regards  certain  otherfacts;	and  ultimately,  from the  primary  facts  and	 thefurther facts inferred from them, the authority has to	drawthe  proper  legal inferences, and ascertain  on  a  correctinterpretation	of  the	 taxing enactment,  the	 proper	 taxleviable.   Thus,  when a question  arises  whether  certainincome	received  by  an assessee  is  capital	receipt,  orrevenue	 receipt,  the assessing authority has to  find	 outwhat primary facts have been proved, what other facts can beinferred from them, and taking all these together, to decidewhat the legal inference should be.There  can be no doubt that the duty of disclosing  all	 theprimary	 facts	relevant  to the decision  of  the  questionbefore	the  assessing authority lies on the  assessee.	  Tomeet  a possible contention that when some account books  orother  evidence has been produced, there is no duty  on	 theassessee to disclose further facts, which on due  diligence,the Income-tax			    249Officer	 might have discovered, the Legislature has  put  inthe  Explanation, which has been set out above., In view  ofthe Explanation, it will not be open to the assessee to say,for  example-"	I have produced the account  books  and	 thedocuments: You, the assessing officer examine them, and findout  the facts necessary for your purpose: My duty  is	donewith disclosing these account-books and the documents".	 Hisomission  to  bring to the assessing  authority's  attentionthese  particular  items  in  the  account  books,  or	 theparticular  portions of the documents, which  are  relevant,amount	to  "  omission	 to disclose  fully  and  truly	 allmaterial facts necessary for his assessment." Nor will he beable  to  contend successfully that  by	 disclosing  certainevidence,  he  should  be deemed  to  have  disclosed  otherevidence, which might have been discovered by the  assessingauthority  if he had pursued investigation on the  basis  ofwhat  has been disclosed.  The Explanation to  the  section,gives  a quietus to all such contentions; and  the  positionremains	 that so far as primary facts are concerned,  it  isthe  assessee's	 duty  to  disclose  all  of  them-includingparticular entries in account books, particular portions  ofdocuments  and	documents, and other evidence,	which  couldhave  been discovered by the assessing authority,  from	 thedocuments and other evidence disclosed.Does  the duty however extend beyond the full  and  truthfuldisclosure of all primary facts ? In our opinion, the answerto  this  question must be in the negative.   Once  all	 theprimary	 facts	are  before  the  assessing  authority,	  herequires no further assistance by way of disclosure.  It  isfor him to decide what inferences of facts can be reasonablydrawn and what legal inferences have ultimately to be drawn.It  is not for somebody else-far less the assessee--to	tellthe assessing authority what inferences-whether of facts  orlaw  should  be drawn.	Indeed, when it is  remembered	thatpeople	often  differ as regards what inferences  should  bedrawn  from  given facts, it will be meaningless  to  demandthat the assessee must disclose32250what  inferences-whether of facts or law-he would draw	fromthe primary facts.If  from  primary facts more inferences than  one  could  bedrawn,	it  would not be possible to say that  the  assesseeshould have drawn any particular inference and	communicatedit  to	the assessing authority.  How could an	assessee  becharged	 with failure to communicate an inference, which  hemight or might not have drawn ?It  may	 be  pointed out that the Explanation  to  the	sub-section has nothing to do with " inferences " and deals onlywith  the  question  whether  primary  material	 facts	 notdisclosed could still be said to be constructively disclosedon the ground that with due diligence the Income-tax Officercould	have  discovered  them	from  the   facts   actuallydisclosed.  The Explanation has not the effect of  enlargingthe section, by casting a duty on the assessee to disclose "inferences  "-to draw the proper inferences being  the	dutyimposed on the Income-fax Officer.We have therefore come to the Conclusion that while the dutyof  the assessee is to disclose fully and truly all  primaryrelevant facts, it does not extend beyond this.The  position therefore is that if there were in  fact	somereasonable grounds for thinking that there had been any non-disclosure  as regards any primary fact, which could have  amaterial bearing on the question of "under assessments	thatwould  be sufficient to give jurisdiction to the  Income-taxOfficer	 to issue the notice,% under s. 34.   Whether  thesegrounds were adequate or not for arriving at the  conclusionthat there was a non disclosure of material facts would	 notbe open for the court's investigation.	In other words,	 allthat is necessary to give this special jurisdiction is	thatthe  Income-tax	 officer had when he  assumed  jurisdictionsome  prima facie grounds for thinking that there  had	beensome non-disclosure of material facts.Clearly	 it is the duty of the assessee who wants the  courtto hold that jurisdiction was lacking, to establish that theIncome-tax  Officer  had no material at all before  him	 forbelieving that there had  been such251non disclosure.	 To establish this the company has relied onthe statements in the assessment orders for the three  yearsin  question  and  on the statement  of	 Kanakendra  NarayanBanerjee  in the report made by him to the  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax for the purpose of obtaining sanction to initiateproceedings  tinder s. 34 and also on his statement  in	 theaffidavit on oath in reply to the writ petition.  The reportis in these words:-"  Profit of Rs. 5,48,002 on sale of shares  and  securitiesescaped assessment altogether.At  the	 time of the original  assessment  the	then  I.T.O.merely	accepted  the  company's version that  the  sale  ofshares	were casual transactions and were in the  nature  ofmere  change  of  investments.	 Now  the  results  of	 thecompany's  trading from year to year show that	the  companyhas  really been systematically carrying out a trade in	 thesale  of  investments.	As such the company  had  failed  todisclose  the true intention behind the sale of	 the  sharesand as such s. 34(1)(a) may be attracted."The  only nondisclosure mentioned in the report is that	 thecompany	 had failed to disclose " the true intention  behindthe  sale of the shares ". Mr. Choudhury contends that	thisis  not an omission to disclose a material fact	 within	 themeaning	 of  s. 34.  The question whether sales	 of  certainshares were by way of changing the investments or by way  oftrading	 in shares has to be decided on a  consideration  ofdifferent  circumstances,  including the  frequency  of	 thesales, the nature of the shares sold, the price received  ascompared  with	the cost price, and several  other  relevantfacts.	 It is the duty of the assessee to disclose all	 thefacts which have a bearing on the question; but whether	 theassessee  had  the intention to make a	business  profit  asdistinguished  from the intention to change the form of	 theinvestments  is	 really	 an inference to  be  drawn  by	 theassessing  authority  from  the	 material  facts  taken	  inconjunction  with  the surrounding circumstances.   The	 lawdoes  not require the assessee to state the conclusion	thatcould reasonable drawn from the primary facts.	The252question of the assessee's intention is an inferential	factand  so	 the  assessee's  omission  to	state  his  "	trueintentions  behind the sale of shares " cannot by itself  beconsidered  to	be  a failure or omission  to  disclose	 anymaterial  fact	within	the meaning of s.  34.	 Indeed,  anassessee  whose contention is that the shares were  sold  tochange the form of investment and not with the intention  ofmaking a business profit cannot be expected to say that	 histrue  intention was other than what he contended it to	be..Dealing	 with  this question the learned Chief	Justice	 hassaid:-" The expression that the Respondent had failed to  disclose"  the true intention behind the sale of shares "  may	lackdirectness,   but  that	 deficiency  of	 language   is	 notsufficient  to enable the Respondent to contend, in view  ofthe circumstances alleged, that no failure to disclose factswas  being  complained of.  On the facts as  stated  by	 theIncome-tax  Officer,  it  is clear that	 there	had  been  afailure	 to  disclose  the fact that the  Respondent  was  adealer	in shares and what the Income-tax Officer  meant  bythe  language  used by him was that the Respondent  had	 notdisclosed that the sale of shares had been of the nature  ofa trading sale, made in pursuance of an intention to make  abusiness  profit,  and	not of the nature  of  a  change  ofinvestment, made in pursuance of an intention to put certaincapital	 assets	 into another form.  If that be	 so,  it  isequally	 clear that the Income-tax Officer who, by the	way,was  a successor to the officers who had made  the  originalassessments, was not merely changing his opinion as to factspreviously known, but was taking notice of a new fact."The  learned  Chief Justice seems to have proceeded  on	 thebasis  that  when from certain facts inferences	 are  to  bedrawn  there  is a duty on the assessee to  state  what	 thecorrect	 inference  should  be and if he has  made  a  wrongstatement as regards the inferences to be drawn that also isan " omission or failure to disclose a material fact ".	 Forthe  reasons given earlier we do not think that this is	 thecorrect position in law.It is clear therefore that if one looked at this report			    253only  it would not be possible to say that the	Income.	 taxOfficer	 had  any non-disclosure of material  facts  by	 theassessee in mind when he assumed jurisdiction.	It has to beremembered   however  that  in	sending	 a  report  to	 theCommissioner the Income-tax Officer might not fully set	 outwhat he thought amounted to a non-disclosure, because it  isconceivable  that the report may not be drawn  up  carefullyand  may not contain a reference to all the  non-disclosuresthat operated on his mind.  We have however on the record anaffidavit  sworn by the same Income-tax Officer who  startedthe  s. 34 proceedings.	 It is reasonable to expect that  inthis  affidavit which was his opportunity to tell the  courtwhat  non-disclosure  he took into  consideration  he  wouldstate  as clearly as possible the material facts in  respectof  which  there had not been in his view a  full  and	truedisclosure.   Mr. Banerjee's statements in this	 matter	 arecontained  in paras. 5, 6 and 7 of his affidavit.  They	 arein these words:-It  5.	With  reference to paragraphs 2 and 3  of  the	saidpetition, I crave reference to the assessment orders thereinmentioned.   The assessment order dated the  15th  February,1945,  was  made  by Sri Kali Das  Banerjee  now  Income-taxOfficer	 Companies District II and the other two  assessmentorders	were  made  by	L. D. Rozario  who  is	now  in	 theemployment  of M/s Lovelock & Lewes.  I find from the  notesmade by me in the order sheet of the assessment year 1944-45and my order dated the 7th July, 1944 that Mr. Smith of M/s.Lovelock  &  Lewes attended before me and  stated  that	 theprofits	 of  the company arising out of dealings  in  shareswere  not taxable as the company was not a dealer in  sharesand securities.	 Subsequently on the 18th August 1944,	M/s.Lovelock  &  Lewes  wrote a letter to  me  setting  out	 thecontentions  of	 their clients and inter  alia	stated	thatthroughout  the whole history the company bought  no  shareswhat  so. ever.	 Sri K. D. Banerjee was accordingly  led  tobelieve that the dealings in shares were casual transactionsand were in the nature of mere change in investments and theprofits resulting therefrom were254not  taxable.  The assessment orders were made on the  basisthat the petitioner did not carry on any  business  dealingsin shares.  A copy of the said letter dated the 18th August,1944,  as  also the relevant portion of the note  sheet	 areincluded in the schedule hereto annexed and marked "6.   In the assessments for 1945-46 and 1946-47, which	werecompleted in April 1950, the profits on sale of shares	wereincluded  in the total assessable income of the	 company  ithaving been then discovered that the petitioner was in	factcarrying   on	business   in	shares	 contrary   to	 itsrepresentation	that it was not.  The company filed  appealsbefore	the  Appellate Assistant  Commissioner,	 which	wererejected  in  September	 1950,	and  the  assessments	wereconfirmed.   The  company thereafter filed a  second  appealbefore	the  In.  come-tax Tribunal which  appeals  are	 nowpending.7.   With reference to para. 5 of the said petition, I	denythat I pretended to act under s. 34 of the Income-tax Act asalleged.   I have reasons to believe that by reason  of	 theomission  or  failure of the company to disclose  fully	 andtruly all material facts necessary for its assessments,	 theincome,	 pro.  fits and gains chargeable to  income-tax	 hadbeen  under assessed.  I recorded my reasons and made  threereports	 (one  for  each year) in the  prescribed  form	 andsubmitted them before the Commissioner of Income-tax and thelatter	was satisfied that it was a fit case for issue of  anotice	under  s. 34 of the Income-tax	Act.   Thereafter  Iissued the prescribed notices under s. 34 of the  Income-taxAct.   The  said  reports were made and	 notices  issued  inrespect of all the three years mentioned in the petition andcopies	of the report and notice for one of such  years	 areincluded  in the schedule hereto annexed and marked "  A  ".The  report and notices for the two other years are  exactlysimilar."It  appears  from  this that the statements made  by  or  onbehalf	 of  the  company  which  the  assessing   authorityconsidered  to	amount to non-disclosure of  material  factswere these:-(i) the company was not			    255whole	of  its	 history  the  company	bought	 no   shareswhatsoever.   It has not been suggested before us  that,  infact  at  any time up to the conclusion	 of  the  assessmentproceedings  for the years 1942-43, 1943-44 and 1944-45	 thecompany	 did  in  fact make a  single  purchase	 of  shares.Clearly	 therefore the Income-tax Officer had no  reasonableground for thinking that anything as regards the purchase ofshares had not been disclosed.	The company does not disputethat the statement was made on its behalf that it was not  a"I dealer " in shares and securities.  It appears clear thatthe  Income-tax	 Officers who made the assessments  for	 theyears  1942-43, 1943-44 and 1944-45 proceeded on  the  basisthat  this  was	 an investment company	and  considered	 thequestion whether in spite of its being an investment companycertain sales of shares wherefrom the company made a  profitwere by way of trading in shares and not by way of  changingthe   form  of	investment.   Whether  these  sales  by	  aninvestment  company  should  in law be	treated	 as  tradingtransactions,  and the profits made from the  sales  tradingprofits	 liable	 to  tax, was the matter which	it  was	 theIncome-tax  Officer's  task to decide.	No duty lay  on	 thecompany	 to  admit that these transactions were	 by  way  oftrade.	The fact that on behalf of the company Mr. Smith  ofLovelock & Lewes stated that the company was not a dealer inshares	and  securities	 does not  therefore  amount  to  anomission to disclose fully and truly any material fact.To  ascertain whether the Income-tax Officer could have	 hadin mind any non-disclosure as a ground for thinking that  byreason	of  such  non-disclosure  an  under  assessment	 hadoccurred-apart	from what was mentioned in the	affidavit-weenquired from respondent's counsel whether he could suggestany  other non-disclosure that might have taken place.	 Mr.Sastri	suggested two.	One is that the sales had  not	beendisclosed;  the	 other that the memorandum and	articles  ofassociation  of	 the  company  had  not	 been  shown.	Thissuggestion  is against the record and we have no  hesitationin  repelling it.  Not only is it not the ground set out  bythe Income-tax Officer at any256stage-not  even in the affidavit in court, but the  ,mattersmentioned by the officer that the assessee had claimed	thatthe  profits  realised	were of a  casual  nature  obviouslyindicate  that	the  assessee  disclosed  ,that	 a   surplusresulted from the sales which were also disclosed.The assessment orders it is true do not mention the  detailsof the sales.  They state however that the audited  accountsof  the	 company were furnished.  The sales of	shares	wereexpressly  mentioned in the report.  In these  circumstancesit  is reasonable to believe that as regards sale of  sharesfull details were in fact disclosed.Nor  can we believe that the two Income-tax Officers  L.  D.Rozario and K. D. Banerjee concluded the proceedings withoutreferring  to the memorandum and articles of association  ofthe company.  These officers known well that the company wasclaiming  to  be an investment company only.   They  had  toconsider  the question whether sales were of the  nature  oftrade  or  of  the nature of change of	investment.   It  isunthinkable  that they would not examine the  memorandum  ofassociation.  Besides, it is pertinent to note that in para.4 of his affidavit Kanakendra Narayan Banerjee refers to theMemorandum and articles of Association and states that "  byits   memorandum  of  association  the	company	  has	beenauthorised to carry. on the various kinds of business  whichhave  been specified in sub-section (1) and (2) of cl. 3  ofthe said memorandum of associations He does not say that thearticles  or  the memorandum of association were  not  shownduring	the  assessment proceedings for the  years  1942-43,1943-44	 and 1944-45.  If he had any reason to believe	thatthese were not shown he would have certainly mentioned	thatfact.	For  that would undoubtedly to non-disclosure  of  amaterial fact.It  must therefore be held that the Income-tax	Officer	 whoissued the notices had not before him any non-disclosure  ofa material fact and so he could have no material before	 himfor  believing	that  there  had  been	any  material	non-disclosure by reason of which an under-assessment had  takenplace.			    257We are therefore bound to hold that the conditions precedentto  the exercise of jurisdiction under s. 34 of the  Income-tax  Act  did  not  exist and  the  Income-tax	Officer	 hadtherefore  no  jurisdiction to issue  the  impugned  noticesunder  s.  34 in respect of the years 1942-43,	1943-44	 and1944-45 after the expiry of four years.Mr.  Sastri argued that the question whether the  Income-taxOfficer	 had  reason to believe that  under  assessment	 hadoccurred  " by reason of nondisclosure of material  facts  "should	not be investigated by the courts in an	 applicationunder  Art. 226.  Learned Counsel seems to suggest  that  assoon  as the Income-tax Officer has reason to  believe	thatthere  has  been  under	 assessment  in	 any  year  he	 hasjurisdiction  to start proceedings under s. 34 by issuing  anotice provided 8 years have not elapsed from the end of theyear  in question, but whether the notices should have	beenissued within a period of 4 years or not is only a  questionof  limitation which could and should properly be raised  inassessment  proceedings.  It is wholly incorrect however  tosuppose	 that  this  is a question of  limitation  only	 nottouching  the question of jurisdiction.	 The scheme  of	 thelaw clearly is that where the Income-tax Officer has  reasonto  believe that an under assessment has resulted from	non-disclosure  he shall have jurisdiction to start	 proceedingsfor re. assessment within a period of 8 years; and where  hehas reason to believe that an under assessment has  resultedfrom  other causes he shall have jurisdiction to start	pro-ceedings  for  re-assessment  within  4	 years.	  Both	 theconditions,  (i)  the Income-tax Officer  having  reason  tobelieve	 that there has been under assessment and  (ii)	 hishaving	reason	to believe that such  under  assessment	 hasresulted from nondisclosure of material facts, must co-existbefore	the  Income-tax Officer has  jurisdiction  to  startproceedings after the expiry of 4 years.  The argument	thatthe  Court ought not to investigate the existence of one  ofthese  conditions,  viz., that the  Income-tax	Officer	 hasreason to believe that under assessment has resulted from33258non-disclosure	 of  material  facts  cannot  therefore	  be,accepted.Mr.  Sastri  next  pointed out that at the  stage  when	 theIncome-tax  Officer  issued the notices he  was	 not  actingjudicially  or quasi-judicially and so a writ of  certiorarior  prohibition	 cannot issue.	It is well  settled  howeverthat  though the writ of prohibition or certiorary will	 notissue  against an executive authority, the High Courts	havepower  to  issue  in  a fit case  an  order  prohibiting  anexecutive authority from acting without jurisdiction.  Wheresuch  action  of  an  executive	 authority  acting   withoutjurisdiction  subjects or is likely to subject a  person  tolengthy	 proceedings  and unnecessary harassment,  the	HighCourts, it is well settled, will issue appropriate orders ordirections to prevent such consequences.Mr.  Sastri  mentioned	more than once	the  fact  that	 thecompany	 would	have sufficient opportunity  to	 raise	thisquestion, viz., whether the Income-tax Officer had reason tobelieve	 that  under  assessment  had  resulted	 from	non-disclosure of material facts, before the Income-tax  Officerhimself	 in the assessment proceedings and, if	unsuccessfulthere,	before	the  appellate	officer	 or  the   appellatetribunal  or  in the High Court under section 66(2)  of	 theIndian	Income-tax Act.	 The existence of  such	 alternativeremedy	is  not	 however  always  a  sufficient	 reason	 forrefusing a party quick relief by a writ or order prohibitingan  authority  acting without jurisdiction  from  continuingsuch action.In the present case the company contends that the conditionsprecedent  for	the assumption of jurisdiction under  s.  34were  not  satisfied and come to the court at  the  earliestopportunity.   There is nothing in its conduct	which  wouldjustify	 the refusal of proper relief under Art. 226.	Whenthe  Constitution  confers on the High Courts the  power  togive  relief it becomes the duty of the courts to give	suchrelief	in  fit	 cases and the courts would  be	 failing  toperform	 their	duty if relief is refused  without  adequatereasons.   In  the present case we can find  no	 reason	 forwhich relief should be refused.			    259We  have therefore come to the conclusion that	the  companywas  entitled to an order directing the	 Income-tax  Officernot  to take any action on the basis of the  three  impugnednotices.We are informed that assessment orders were in fact made  onMarch 25, 1952, by the Income-tax Officer in the proceedingsstarted	 on the basis of these impugned notices.   This	 wasdone  with the permission of the learned Judge	before	whomthe  petition  under Art. 226 was pending, on  the  distinctunderstanding  that these orders would be without  prejudiceto  the contentions of the parties on the several  questionsraised	in the petition and without prejudice to the  ordersthat  may ultimately be passed by the Court.  The fact	thatthe  assessment	 orders	 have already  been  made  does	 nottherefore affect the company's right to obtain relief  underArt.  226.  In view however of the fact that the  assessmentorders	have  already been made we think it proper  that  inaddition to an order directing the Income-tax Officer not totake  any  action  on the basis of the	impugned  notices  afurther order .quashing the assessment made be also issued.In the result, we allow the appeal, set aside the order madeby  the	 appellate  Bench of the  Calcutta  High  Court	 andrestore	 the  order made by the Trial Judge,  Bose,  J.	 Theassessment  orders made in the proceedings started under  s.34  of the Income Tax Act are also quashed.   The  appellantwill get its costs here and below.HIDAYATULLAH  J.-I  have had the advantage  of	reading	 thejudgments  prepared by my brethren, Das Gupta and Shah,	 JJ.The point involved in the case is a very short one, and	 theanswer,	 as  it appears to me, equally	so.   The  appellantCompany's  income,  profits  and gains	for  the  assessmentyears, 1942-43, 1943-44 and 1944-45, were duly assessed	 andtaxed.	 The orders were respectively passed on January	 26,1944, February 12, 1944, and February 15, 1945.On  March 28, 1951, three notices under s. 34 of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act	 were  issued  calling	upon  the  appellantCompany to submit fresh returns in respect260of  the	 previous years relative to each of  the  assessmentyears  above mentioned.	 Since this action was	taken  aftermore  than four years, the matter fell to be governed by  s.34(1)(a)  of the Indian Income-tax Act, as amended in  1948.The clause provided an extended period for sending a  noticecalling	 for  a	 return	 for the  purpose  of  assessing  orreassessing  income,  profits and gains	 which	had  escapedassessment  or had been under-assessed for any	year  withineight  years,  if  the Income-tax Officer "  has  reason  tobelieve	 that  by reason of the omission or failure  on	 thepart  of  an assessee to make a return of his  income  undersection	 22 for any year or to disclose fully and truly	 allmaterial facts necessary for his assessment for that year ",the  income, profits or gains chargeable to income-tax	haveescaped assessment etc.In  the	 present case, the appellant Company,  which  is  aninvestment Company, had produced in the back years a list ofthe  shares  sold by it, the statements of profit  and	lossaccount,  and, I am prepared to assume, also the  Memorandumand Articles of Association.  But the appellant Company gaveout  that  the sales of shares were casual  transactions  ofchange of investments.	This statement was accepted,  thoughit was found that in later years the Company was dealing  instocks	and shares as a business venture, and its  statementwhich was accepted, was not perhaps true.The   Income-tax   Officer  reported  the  matter   to	 theCommissioner, and stated as follows:"Profits of Rs. 5,48,002/- on sale of shares and  securitiesescaped assessment altogether.At  the	 time  of the original assessment  the	then  I.T.O.merely	accepted  the company's version that  the  sales  ofshares	were casual transactions and were in the  nature  ofmere  change  of  investments.	 Now  the  results  of	 thecompany's  trading from year to year show that	the  companyhas  really been systematically carrying out a trade in	 thesale  of  investments.	As such, the company has  failed  todisclose  the true intention behind the sale of	 the  sharesand as such section 34(1)(a) may be attracted."The appellant Company applied to the Calcutta			    261High Court for a writ Under Art. 226 which was granted by  alearned single Judge; but the order was, reversed on  appealin  the High Court.  The appellant Company has now  appealedon a certificate under Art. 133(1)(c) of the Constitution.The  contention	 of the appellant Company is  that  all	 thefacts  necessary to be disclosed were, in  fact,  disclosed,that  it  was not required further to concede  that  it	 wastrading	 in shares, which was a matter of  inference,  from'the  proved facts, for the Income-tax Officer to  draw,	 andthat there was thus no question of any non disclosure.	Thisargument  overlooks the addition of the Explanation  to	 thesection,  which explains cl. (a) of the first  sub-section..It reads:"  Explanation.-Production before the Income-tax Officer  ofaccount-books  or other evidence from which  material  factscould with due diligence have been discovered by the Income-tax Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure withinthe meaning of this section."This  means  quite  clearly  that  the	mere  production  ofevidence is not enough, and that there may be an omission orfailure to make a full and true disclosure if some  materialfact  necessary	 for the assessment lies  embedded  in	thatevidence  which the assessee can uncover but does  not.	  Ifthere  is  such a fact, it is the duty of  the	assessee  todisclose it.  The evidence which is produced by the assesseediscloses only primary facts, but to interpret the evidence,certain	 other facts may be necessary.	Thus,  questions  ofstatus, agency, benami nature of transactions, the nature oftrading	 and like matters may not appear from  the  evidenceproduced,  unless disclosed.  If it be merely a question  ofinterpretation	of  evidence by an Income-tax  Officer	fromwhom nothing has been hidden and to whom everything has beenfully disclosed, then the assessee cannot be subjected to s.34, merely because the Income-tax Officer miscarried in	 hisinterpretation	of  evidence.	But it is  otherwise,  if  acontention  which  is contrary to fact, is  raised  and	 theIncome-tax  Officer is set to discover the hidden truth	 forhimself In the latter case, there is suppression of materialfact, or, in262other  words,  that lack of full and true  disclosure  whichwould entitle action under s. 34 of the Act.The  following	example explains the  meaning.	 Taking	 thepresent	 case, I set below two statements,  one	 .,involvingfull  disclosure  and a contention, and the  other,  only  acontention with a material fact suppressed :"  (1).	  We  are  a trading company  and  our	business  isaccording  to  our memorandum of association   'to  acquire,hold,  exchange,  sell and 'deal in shares,  stocks,  etc.'.These  sales,  however,	 were not business  sales  but	onlychange of investments into trustee securities as decided  bythe trustees.(2)  We	 changed industrial shares into	 trustee  securitiesbecause I in or about 1934, the trustees decided to  convertthe  Indian  Industrial Shares held by	the  appellant	intotrustee securities'."If the first is decided in favour of the assessee, there  isan  inference or decision by the Income-tax Officer  from  afull  and  true	 disclosure.  If the second  is	 decided  infavour	of the assessee, the question would arise  if  therewas full and true disclosure.In  the present case, the question whether the	transactionswere casual transactions of changing investments or  regulartrading	 in  stocks  and  shares  involves  not	 merely	  aninference, because the inference depends upon the fact	thatthe  appellant	Company was formed to trade  in	 stocks	 andshares.	  It  was open to the appellant Company	 to  contendthat in spite of its business, a particular transaction	 wasthis  and  not that.  But, if the appellant Company  was  aninvestment Company dealing in stocks and shares' and knowingthis  for a fact, did not disclose the fact,  the  statementwas neither full nor true, as it involved a suppression of amaterial fact necessary for the assessment.  The Explanationis  quite obviously meant to reach an  identical  situation.The appellant Company might have placed the evidence  beforethe  income-tax	 Officer,  but the  Income-tax	Officer	 hadreason	to believe that the disclosure was neither full	 nortrue, because the fact that the Company was and shares			    263was  not  disclosed.  The Income-tax Officer in	 his  reportmeant  no more than this.  He, therefore, felt	that,  primafacie, there was not only concealment of a fact but, on	 thecontrary,   maintaining	 of  a	falsehood,  and	  this	 wassufficient to bring this matter within the extended  period.Every  contention  contrary  to	 the  Income-tax   Officer'sopinion	 is not necessarily concealment of a material  fact,but  some contentions made with a mental reservation  as  tothe true state of affairs may amount to such concealment, ifthey involve non-disclosure of facts related to other  factsand known to the assessee.The  Company  still persists that the sales of	shares	werecasual transactions, and this contention will, no doubt,  bedecided	 hereafter.  But the question will be decided  aftertaking into consideration the nature of the business of	 theCompany,  and  till  that is done,  the	 Income-tax  Officerbelieves  that the contention raise before and persisted  inis  not	 a mere contention but maintenance  of	a  falsehoodabout the nature of the transactions and the business of theCompany.   The	existence of such a belief  is	sufficientlyestablished by the report of the Income-tax Officer and	 thesatisfaction  of  the Commissioner, and this  has  not	beengainsaid.In  my	opinion,  the Divisional Bench	of  the	 High  Courtrightly	 refused  a writ in the circumstances, and  I  woulddismiss this appeal with costs.SHAH  J.-I  regret  inability to  agree	 with  the  judgmentdelivered by my learned brother Mr. Justice Das Gupta.The facts which give rise to this appeal have been fully setout  by	 my  learned  brother and it  is  not  necessary  toreiterate the same.Sub-section (1) of s. 34 of the Indian Income Tax Act,	1922(in  so far it is material) stood at the relevant date	whenthe proceedings were commenced, as follows:S.   34:-(1) If--(a)  the  Income-tax Officer has reason to believe  that  byreason of the omission or failure on the part of an264for  any  year or to disclose fully and truly  all  material,facts	necessary for his assessment for that year,  income,profits	 or  gains  chargeable to  income-tax  have  escapedassessment  for	 that year, or have been  under-assessed  orassessed at too low a rate, or have been made the subject ofexcessive  relief  under  the  Act,  or	 excessive  loss  ordepreciation allowance has been computed, or(b)  notwithstanding  that  there has been  no	omission  orfailure as mentioned in cl. (a) on the part of the assessee,the Income-tax Officer has in consequence of information  inhis  possession	 reason to believe that income,	 profits  orgains  chargeable to income-tax have escaped assessment	 forany  year, or have been under-assessed, or assessed  at	 toolow  a	rate,  or have been made the  subject  of  excessiverelief	 under	 this  Act,  or	 that  excessive   loss	  ordepreciation  allowance has been computed, he may  in  casesfalling under cl. (a) at any time within eight years and  incases falling under cl. (b) at any time within four years ofthe  end  of that year, serve on the assessee,	or,  if	 theassessee  is a company, on the principal officer thereof,  anotice	containing all or any of the requirements which	 maybe  included in a notice under sub-s. (2) of s. 22  and	 mayproceed to assess or re-assess such income, profits or gainsor  re-compute the loss or depreciation allowance;  and	 theprovisions  of	this  Act shall, so far	 as  may  be,  applyaccordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under thatsub-section:Provided that--(i)  the  Income-tax Officer shall not issue a notice  underthis  sub-section,  unless he has recorded his	reasons	 fordoing  so and the Commissioner is satisfied on such  reasonsrecorded that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice;(ii) the  tax  shall be chargeable at the rate at  which  itwould have been charged had the income, profits or gains notescaped	 assessment or full assessment, as the case may	 be;and(iii)	  where the assessment made or to be made is265an   assessment made or to be made on a person deemed  to bethe agent of a non-resident person under s.  43,  this	sub-section	 shall	have effect as if for the periods  of  eightyears and four years a period of one year was substituted.Explanation:-Production	 before	 the Income-tax	 Officer  ofaccount	 books or other evidence from which  material  factscould with due diligence have been discovered by the Income-tax Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure withinthe meaning of this section.This   section	 provides  machinery   for   assessment	  orreassessment if it be found that income, profits or gains  "have  escaped  assessment  or have been	 under	assessed  orassessed  at  too low a rate or have been  made	 subject  toexcessive  relief  under  the  Act  or	excessive  loss	  ordepreciation allowance has been computed ", which expressionmay  for convenience of reference be compendiously  referredto  as	are or have been under-assessed.   Notice  under  s.34(1)(a) may be issued if the Income Tax Officer has  reasonto  believe that income in any year has been under  assessedby reason of the failure on the part of the assessee to makea  return of his income, or to disclose fully and truly	 allmaterial  facts	 necessary for assessment for  the  year  inquestion.   The	 authority  of the  Income  Tax	 Officer  ismanifestly  circumscribed by certain conditions, and may  beexercised only if those conditions exist and not otherwise.In the case in hand, we are concerned with the operation  ofcl. (1)(a) of s. 34.  If that clause does not apply, noticesof  reassessment  having been served more  than	 four  yearsafter the end of the relevant year of assessment, must fail.On  an	analysis of the relevant  provisions,  the  materialconditions  proscribed	for  the exercise of  the  power  tocommence proceedings for reassessment under s. 34(1)(a)	 arethese:'(1)  The Income Tax Officer has reason to believe,(a)  that income, profits or gains have been underassessed,(b)  that this under-assessment is by reason of266omission  or  failure  to make a return under s.  22  or  byreason	of failure to disclose fully and truly all  materialfacts  necessary  for assessment for any year;	(2)  that  anotice containing all or any of the requirements of s. 22(2)is served on the assessee within eight years from the end ofthe year of assessment;(3)  that  the Income Tax Officer has recorded	his  reasonsfor issuing the notice and the Commissioner is satisfied  onsuch  reasons  recorded that it is a fit case for  issue  ofsuch notice.The  notices  issued by the Income Tax Officer in  the	casebefore	us  undoubtedly	 fulfil	 conditions  (2)  and	(3).Notices	 of  reassessment were served before the  expiry  ofeight years of the end of the relevant years of	 assessment.The  Income  Tax Officer also recorded his  reasons  in	 thereports	 submitted  by	him  to	 the  Commissioner  and	 theCommissioner was satisfied that they were fit cases for	 theissue  of such notices.	 The dispute in the  appeal  relatesmerely	to the fulfilment of the two branches of  the  firstcondition and that immediately raises the question about thetrue import of the expression "has reason to believe" in  s.34(1)(a).   The expression " reason to believe "  postulatesbelief	and the existence of reasons for that  belief.	 Thebelief	must  be held in good faith: it cannot be  merely  apretence.  The expression does not mean a purely  subjectivesatisfaction  of  the  Income  Tax  Officer:  the  forum  ofdecision  as to the existence of reasons and the  belief  isnot  in	 the  mind  of the Income Tax  Officer.	  If  it  beasserted  that the Income Tax Officer had reason to  believethat  income had been underassessed by reason of failure  todisclose fully and truly the facts material for	 assessment,the existence of the belief and the reasons for the  belief,but not the sufficiency of the reasons, will be justiciable.The  expression	 therefore predicates that  the	 Income	 TaxOfficer holds the belief induced by the existence of reasonsfor  holding  such  belief.  It	 contemplates  existence  ofreasons	 on  which the belief is founded, and not  merely  abelief	in the existence of reasons inducing the belief;  inother  words, the Income Tax Officer must on information  athis disposal believe that267income has been underassessed by reason of failure fully andtruly	to  disclose  all  material  facts   necessary	 forassessment.  Such a belief, be it said, may not be based  onmere suspicion: it must be founded upon information.That the Income Tax Officer has reason to believe that therewas   under  assessment	 in  the  material  years  was	 notchallenged  by	the appellant and in  our  opinion  rightly.There  are  on	the record the reports	of  the	 Income	 TaxOfficer	 in which the belief is expressly set out.  It	alsoappears from the assessment orders for the years 1945-46 and1946-47	 that tax has been assessed on the profits  made  bysale of shares by the company in those years.Had the Income Tax Officer reason to believe that by  reasonof  failure to disclose fully and truly all  material  factsnecessary  for assessment for the three years  in  question,there  had  resulted underassessment ?	 The  learned  Trialjudge, after setting out the evidence, held that the  IncomeTax  Officer  had  materials before  him  showing  that	 thecompany's  trading from year to year disclosed that  it	 hadbeen  systematically  carrying	on a trade in  the  sale  ofshares and securities.	He observed:"  Whether the materials were sufficient or not	 or  whetherthe  belief or opinion is erroneous or not,  cannot.........be  enquired  into  by the court......	If  the	 Income	 TaxOfficer has made a wrong decision as to the existence of theconditions  precedent,	the remedy is by way of	 appeals  asprovided  by the Income Tax Act and by stating a case  unders. 66 of the Act."In  appeal,  the High Court confirmed the order.   The	HighCourt  observed that " the use of the expression " the	trueintention  behind  the sale of shares " used in	 the  reportmade  by  the  Income  Tax  Officer  under  s.	34  to	 theCommissioner  may  lack directness, but that  deficiency  oflanguage was not sufficient to enable the company to contendin  view  of  the circumstances alleged that  there  was  nofailure	 to disclose facts being complained of ".  The	HighCourt also observed:"On  the  facts as stated by the Income Tax Officer,  it  isclear that there had been a failure to268disclose  the  fact  that the respondent  was  a  dealer  in,shares	 and  what  the	 Income Tax  Officer  meant  by	 thelanguage  used	by  him	 was that  the	respondent  had	 notdisclosed that the sale of shares had been of the ,nature ofa  trading  sale, made in pursuance of an intention  to	 putcertain capital assets into another form.  If that be so, itis  equally  clear that the Income Tax Officer who,  by	 theway,  was  a  successor to the officers	 who  had  made	 theoriginal assessments, was not merely changing his opinion asto  facts previously known, but was taking notice of  a	 newfact."Prima  facie,  the finding recorded by the  Court  of  FirstInstance  and confirmed by the Court of Appeal is one  on  aquestion  of fact and this court would not be  justified  inentering  upon	a reappraisal of the evidence.	 But  it  iscontended on behalf of the company that the finding is basedon no materials, and to that plea I may advert.	 By s. 22 ofthe  Income Tax Act, a duty is imposed upon every tax  payerwhose  total  income  exceeds  the  maximum  which  is	 notchargeable to income-tax to make a return in the  prescribedform  and verified in the prescribed manner,  setting  forthhis total income during that year.  If the tax payer  makingthe  return fails to disclose fully and truly  all  materialfacts necessary for the assessment of the year in  question,the  jurisdiction of the Income Tax Officer to	reassess  isinvited.   The	company in its petition for the issue  of  awrit  contended by paragraph 7 that the notices	 were  ultravires  and illegal and that the Income Tax Officer  was	 notinvested  with	jurisdiction to	 proceed  thereunder,  interalia, for the reason-that the " pretended notice was  issuedwithout the existence of the necessary conditions  precedentwhich  confers	jurisdiction  under  s.	 34  aforementioned,whether before or after amendment in 1948."The Income Tax Officer, by his affidavit, submitted:Para  4:-"  The statements made in paragraph 1 of  the	saidpetition  are substantially correct.  By its  Memorandum  ofAssociation, the company has been authorised to carry on thevarious kinds of business which have been specified in	sub-cls. (1) to (32) of cl.(3)  of the said Memorandum of Association.			    269Para  5:-" With reference to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the	saidpetition, I crave reference to the assessment orders thereinmentioned.   The assessment order dated the  15th  February,1945,  was  made by Shri Kali Das Banerjee  now	 Income	 TaxOfficer	  Companies  District  in  II  and  the	 other	 twoassessment orders were made by Mr. L. D. Razario who is	 nowin  the employment of M/s.  Lovelock & Lewis.  I  find	fromthe  notes made by me in the order sheet of  the  assessmentyear 1944-45 and my order dated the 7th July, 1944, that Mr.Smith  of Messrs.  Lovelock & Lewis attended before  me	 andstated	that  the  profits of the  company  arising  out  ofdealings in shares were not taxable as the company was not adealer	in shares and securities.  Subsequently on the	18thAugust, 1944, Messrs.  Lovelock & Lewis wrote a letter to mesetting out the contentions of their clients and inter	aliastated that throughout the whole of its history the  companybought	no  shares  whatsoever.	 Shri  K.  D.  Banerjee	 wasaccordingly led to believe that the dealings in shares	werecasual transactions and were in the nature of mere change ininvestments  and  the profits resulting therefrom  were	 nottaxable.  The assessment orders were made on the basis	thatthe  petitioner	 did not carry on any  business	 dealing  inshares.	  A copy of the said letter dated the  18th  August,1944,  as  also the relevant portion of the note  sheet	 areincluded in the schedule hereto annexed and marked " A "."Para 6:- " In the assessments for 1945-46, and 1946-47 whichwere completed in April, 1950, the profits on sale of shareswere included in the total assessable income of the  companyit  having been then discovered that the petitioner  was  infact  carrying	on  business  in  shares  contrary  to	 itsrepresentation	that it was not.  The company filed  appealsbefore	the  Appellate	Assistant  Commissioner	 which	wererejected  in  September,  1950,	 and  the  assessments	wereconfirmed.  The	 company thereafter filed  a  second  appealbefore	this  Income-tax  Tribunal  which  appeals  are	 nowpending."Para  7:-  "  With  reference to paragraph  5  of  the	saidpetition, I deny that I pretended to act under270s.   34	 of the Income Tax Act as alleged.  I  have  reasonsto  believe  that by reason of the omission  or	 failure  ofthe  company to disclose fully and truly all material  factsnecessary  for its assessments, the income, profits or,	 andgains  chargeable  to income-tax  had  been  underassessed.Irecorded  my reasons and made 3 reports (one for each  year)in  the	 prescribed  form  and	submitted  them	 before	 theCommissioner of Income Tax and the latter was satisfied thatit  was a fit case for issue of a notice under s. 34 of	 theIncome Tax Act.	 Thereafter  issued prescribed notices unders. 34 of the Income Tax Act.  The said reports were made andnotices	 issued in respect of all the three years  mentionedin the petition and copies of the report and notice for	 oneof  such years are included in the schedule  hereto  annexedand  marked " A ". The report and notices for the two  otheryears are exactly similar.By these averments, the Income Tax Officer asserted (a) thathe had reasons to believe that by reason of the omission  orfailure	 of  the  company to disclose fully  and  truly	 allmaterial   facts  necessary  for  the	assessment,   incomechargeable to income tax has been underassessed and that  hehad recorded his reasons in that behalf in the three reportssubmitted by him to the Commissioner; (b) that in the courseof  the assessment proceeding for the year 1944-45,  it	 wasrepresented  on	 behalf	 of the company that  the  sales  ofshares in that year were casual transactions and were in thenature	of " mere change in investments " ; (c) that in	 theorders	of  assessment	for the years  1945-46	and  1946-47passed in April, 1950, profits earned by sale of shares heldby the company were included in the total assessable  incomeof  the company, it having been discovered that the  companywas  in	 fact  carrying on the business	 of  selling  sharescontrary to its earlier representations; and (d) that by itsMemorandum  and	 Articles of Association,  the	company	 wasauthorised  to	carry  on  the	business  of  diverse  kindsspecified in sub-cls. (1) to (32) of cl. (3) thereof.Whereas by a mere bald assertion made by the company in	 itspetition it was averred that the conditions precedent to theexercise of jurisdiction to271re-assess  did not exist, the Income Tax Officer  stated  inhis rejoinder that he had reasons to believe that income badbeen underassessed and he also set out the grounds on  whichthat  belief was founded.  The existence of the	 reasons  tobelieve	 that  income  was  underassessed  has,	 as  alreadyobserved,  not been challenged; nor is the  court  concernedwith the question whether the materials may be regarded by acourt  before  which  a dispute	 is  raised,  sufficient  tosustain	 the belief entertained by the Income  Tax  Officer.It  is	clear that the Income Tax Officer asserted  on	oaththat  when  he issued the notice for  reassessment,  he	 hadreasons	 to  believe  that income of the  company  had	beenunderassessed  and he set out the reasons in support of	 thebelief.Counsel	 for  the company submitted that  all  the  materialfacts  necessary  for the assessment were  fully  and  trulydisclosed  in the course of the assessment for the years  inquestion,  and	if the Income Tax Officer did not  draw	 thecorrect inference, the jurisdiction to reassess could not beinvoked.   He urged that it was for the Income Tax  Officer,on  the	 preliminary facts disclosed to him,  to  raise	 hisinference  of  fact  and  to base  his	conclusions  on	 thepreliminary  as	 well as the inferential facts, and  if,  inarriving  at  his  conclusion on  the  preliminary  and	 theinferential  facts.,  the Income Tax  Officer  committed  anerror,	he  could  not	seek  to  commence  proceedings	 forreassessment  on being apprised of the error.  It  was	saidthat  the  Income Tax Officer knew that the company  was  aninvestment corporation, that the shares held by the  companywere sold from time to time, and that profits were earned bythe  sale of those shares, and that on these  materials	 theIncome	Tax Officer might have held that the company  was  adealer in shares, but if he did not draw that inference, theunder  assessment, if any, was not by reason of	 failure  todisclose  fully	 and  truly  all  material  facts.   Counselsubmitted that the condition of the exercise of jurisdictionunder  s.  34  is failure to disclose fully  and  truly	 allmaterial facts necessary for assessment and not failure to272instruct the Income Tax Officer about the legal inference tobe drawn from the facts disclosed.The duty imposed by the Act upon the tax payer is to make  afull  and true disclosure of all material   facts  necessaryfor the assessment; he is not required to inform the  IncomeTax Officer as to what legal inference should be drawn	fromthe facts disclosed by him nor to advise him on questions oflaw.   Whether on the facts found or disclosed, the  companywas a dealer in shares, may be regarded as a conclusion on amixed  question of law and fact and from the failure on	 thepart  of the company to disclose to the Income	Tax  Officerthis legal inference no fault may be found with the company.But  on	 the evidence in the case, the plea  raised  by	 thecompany	 that  all material facts were disclosed  cannot  beaccepted.   The	 Income Tax Officer has in para.  6  of	 hisaffidavit  referred to the assessment of the  years  1945-46and  1946-47:  he has also referred to	the  Memorandum	 andArticles  of  Association of the company  therein.   In	 theassessment  order  for	the year  1945-46,  the	 Income	 TaxOfficer	 has set out cls. (1) and (2) of the Memorandum	 andArticles of Association of the company.	 They are:(1) " To  acquire, hold, exchange, sell and deal in  shares,stocks,	 debenture-stock, bonds, obligations and  securitiesissued	or guaranteed by any company, Government  or  publicbody constituted or carrying on business in British India orelsewhere; "(2)  "	Generally to carry on business as financiers and  toundertake and carry out all such operations and transactions(except the issuing of policies of assurances on human life)as an individual capitalist may lawfully undertake or  carryout; ".The  Income Tax Officer in his order of assessment for	thatyear observed that those clauses indicated the purposes	 forwhich  the company was formed, and also that " whenever	 theshares	were  first acquired, these became  the	 commoditieswhich  could  either be held or sold according to  the	bestinterests of the company, that whenever such a commodity  issold,  it comes within the activities or  properly  speakingthe profit making scheme as enumerated in the object273clauses stated above.  These shares sold in course of ten ortwelve	years  whenever opportunities occurred	for  earningprofits on making the sales........... This company was	 notan ordinary trader investing its surplus funds in shares andsecurities  quite  unconnected with its	 regular  course  ofbusiness  so  that the profit or loss also on sale  of	suchshares	or securities may be treated as not arising  out  ofits  regular business carried on.  On the other hand, it  isan Investment company of which the very first object  clauseis  to	hold  and deal in shares.  Profit on  sale  of	suchshares	therefore  arises  out	of  its	 regular  course  ofbusiness and it must be taxable."From  that  order  of assessment, it is	 manifest  that	 theAssessing Officer held that the company was formed with	 theobject	of  acquiring,	holding,  exchanging,  selling	 anddealing	 in  shares,  that the shares  acquired	 became	 thetrading	 assets	 of  the  company to  be  disposed  of	whenopportunities  occurred	 for earning profits; and  that	 theactivities of selling shares in which surplus assets of	 thecompany	 were invested were a part of the  regular  businesscarried on by the company.There  is  no evidence that the Memorandum and	Articles  ofAssociation  referred  to in para 4 of	the  affidavit	wereproduced  in  the course of the assessment of  the  relevantyears;	nor is there evidence to show that it was  disclosedthat  the  acquisition	of  shares  was	 incidental  to	 thebusiness  activities  and out of the surplus assets  of	 thecompany	  and  that  the  same	were  sold  at	 profit	  asopportunities  arose.  There is also no ground for  assumingthat  these  facts must have been known to  the	 Income	 TaxOfficer.    Counsel  for  the  company	suggested   somewhatcasually  that under the Income Tax Rules and  the  practiceprevailing  with the Income Tax Officer, the Memorandum	 andArticles  of  Association of every company which  was  beingassessed to tax are to be filed with the Income Tax Officer.But  our attention has not been invited to any rule  or	 anymaterial to support the existence of a practice requiring  aprivate limited company to file with the Income Tax  Officerthe Memorandum and Articles of Association.274The plea raised by counsel for the company must be     examinedin the light of the Explanation to sub-S.    (1)  of S.	 34.The Explanation provides that " Production before the IncomeTax  Officer of account books or other evidence	 from  whichmaterial facts could with due diligence have been discoveredby  the	 Income Tax Officer will not necessarily  amount  todisclosure  within  the	 meaning of the	 section."  If	pro-duction	 of documents or other evidence from which  materialfacts could with due diligence have been discovered does notnecessarily  amount to disclosure, it would be difficult  tohold  that a presumption about the production of a  documentat  sometime in the past and its possible existence  in	 thefiles  of the Income Tax Officer relating to  earlier  yearsmay  be	 regarded as sufficient disclosure.   Disclosure  ofsome facts, but not all, though the facts not disclosed	 mayhave come to the knowledge of the Income Tax Officer, if  hehad  carefully	prosecuted  an	enquiry	 on  the  facts	 andmaterials  disclosed,  will not amount to a  full  and	truedisclosure  of all material facts necessary for the  purposeof  assessment.	 A tax payer cannot resist  reassessment  onthe  plea that non-disclosure of the true state	 of  affairswas due to the negligence or inadvertence on the part of theIncome	 Tax  Officer,	and  but  for  such  negligence	  orinadvertence,  a  full and true disclosure of  all  materialfacts	necessary,  for	 the  assessment  would	 have	beenresulted.There  is no evidence on the record that the Memorandum	 andArticles of Association were ever produced before the IncomeTax  Officer  in the course of proceedings  for	 assessment.Again, the report of the Income 'tax Officer discloses	thathis predecessor in office was told that the sales of  shareseffected by the company were casual transactions and were inthe nature of a mere " change of investments".	This was notstrictly accurate.  The record therefore clearly shows	thatthe  company  bad  failed to disclose fully  and  truly	 allmaterial  facts in relation to assessment in  two  respects,(1) that it failed to produce the Memorandum and Articles ofAssociation  showing the purposes for which the company	 wasincorporated, and			    275(2)that the shares were acquired as part of the business  offinanciers.   The  company also made a	statement  which  ispartially untrue when it stated that sales were mere  casualtransactions.	There were materials before the	 Income	 TaxOfficer on which he had reason to believe that by reason  ofthe  failure  of  the company to fully	and  truly  disclosematerial  facts, its income was underassessed.	 Whether  onthese  facts,  a  conclusion that in fact  the	company	 wascarrying  on  the  business of trading in  shares  could  befounded, is at this stage entirely immaterial.	If there wasreason	to believe, the alleged inadequacy of the  materialson  which the belief could be founded is of no moment.	 TheIncome	 Tax   Officer	 has   commenced   proceedings	 forreassessment  by issuing notices against the company and  hehas  placed all the materials before the court on  which  itcould  be said that he had reason to believe that income  ofthe  company had been underassessed by reason of failure  onthe  part  of the company to disclose fully  and  truly	 allmaterial  facts relating to the assessment and if, on  thosematerials,  the	 Income Tax Officer could  hold	 the  beliefwhich  he  says	 he did, the court in  seeking	to  hold  anenquiry	 into the question whether the Income  Tax  Officer,notwithstanding	 his  affidavit	 and  materials	 placed	  insupport	 thereof, had reason to hold the  requisite  belief,would be arrogating to itself jurisdiction which it does notpossess.   If  the conditions precedent do  not	 exist,	 thejurisdiction  of the High Court to issue  high	prerogative,writs under Art. 226 of the Constitution to prohibit  actionunder the notice may be exercised.  But if the existence  ofthe  conditions is asserted by the authority entrusted	withthe  power  and	 the materials on  the	record	prima  facieSupport the existence of such conditions, an enquiry whetherthe  authority	could not have reasonably  held	 the  beliefwhich he says he had reason to hold and he did hold, is,  inmy judgment, barred.In that view, the proper order to pass in this appeal  wouldbe one of dismissal with costs.BY  COURT.-In  view of the majority opinion, the  appeal  isallowed with costs here and below.276