PETITIONER:THE NEWSPAPERS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, U.P.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/03/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1957 AIR  532		  1957 SCR  754ACT:Industrial Dispute, Meaning of-Dispute between	employer anda  single  workman -  Whether  industrial  dipute-Governmentmaking	reference  on the assumption that a  dispute  existsbetween	 the, employer and his workmen-Whether	validity  ofthe reference can be questioned -U . P. Industrial  DisputesAct,  1947  (U.P.  XXVIII  of  1947),  SS.  2,	3-IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947 (XIV Of 1947), S. 2 (k).HEADNOTE:A dispute between an employer and a single workman does	 notfall  within the definition of " industrial dispute "  underthe  U.P.  industrial Disputes Act, 1947.   But	 though	 theapplicability of the Act to an individual dispute as opposedto  a dispute involving a group of workmen is  excluded,  ifthe  workmen  as a body or a consicrerable section  of	themmake  common cause with the individual workman then  such  adispute would be an industrial dispute.755Central	 Provinces Transport Service Ltd. v Raghunath  GopalPatwardhan,  (1956) S. C. R. 956 and D. N. Banerji v. P.  R.Mukherjee, (1953) S.C.R. 302, referred to.Swadeshi  Cotton Mills Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen,  (1953)  IL.L.J. 757, in so far as it decided that a dispute raised byan,  individual	 workman is within  an	industrial  dispute,disapproved.Case-law reviewed.The  third respondent was employed as a lino typist  by	 theappellant company but on allegations of incompetence he	 wasdismissed  from service.  His case was not taken up  by	 anyunion of workers of the appellant company nor by any of	 theunions of workmen employed in similar or-allied trades,	 butthe U.P. Working journalists Union, Lucknow, with which	 thethird  respondent had no connection took the matter  to	 theConciliation   Board,  Allahabad,  and	-   ultimately	 theGovernment made a reference to the Industrial Tribunal by  anotification  in which one of the points  for  determinationreferred  was  as  to- whether the  services  of  the  thirdrespondent  were  wrongfully terminated by  the	 management.The  legality  of  the	reference  was	challenged  by	 theappellant  and	the  question was raised  as  to  whether  adispute	 between  an  employer and a  single  workman  fallswithin the definition of "industrial dispute" under the U.P.Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.Held, that the reference was bad because the dispute was notbetween the employer on the one hand and his workmen on	 theother,	nor  could  the U.P. Working  journalists  Union  becalled	"  his workmen ", within the meaning of	 the  U.  P.Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.Though the making of a reference by the Government under theAct  is	 the  exercise	of  its	 administrative	 powers,  anaggrieved  party  can  question	 the  jurisdiction  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunal to show that what was referred was	 notan industrial dispute.State  of  Madras  v.  C. P.  Sarathy,	(1953)	S.C.R.	334,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 213 of 1956.Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated Septem.  ber	 22,1954, of the Allahabad High Court in Special Appeal No. 8 of1954 arising out of the judgment and decree dated January 6,1954  of  the said High Court in  Civil	 Miscellaneous	WritPetition No. 651 of 1953.S.   P. Sinha and S. N. Mukherjee, for the appellant.G.   G. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for respondent No. 2.7561957.  March 20.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR J.-The ground on which the appellant company seeks  tohave the order of the Industrial Tribunal set aside is	thatno  industrial	'dispute existed within the meaning  of	 theexpression as used in the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947(XXVIII	 of  1947)  (hereinafter called the  U.P.  Act)	 andconsequently  the U.P. Government had no power to  make	 thereference in question.	I Industrial Dispute' is defined  ins. 2 of the U.P. Act as having the same meaning assigned  toit  as in s. 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act,	1947  (here-inafter termed the Central Act).  There this expression	 hasbeen defined in s. 2 (k) to mean :" any dispute or difference between employers and employers,or  between  employers and workmen, or between	workmen	 andworkmen,  which	 is connected with the	employment  or	non-employment or the terms of employment or with the conditionsof labour, of any person.  "The  controversy between the parties arose in the  followingcircumstances:Tajammul  Hussain, respondent No. 3 was employed as  a	linotypist by the appellant company.  He was dismissed on May 8,1952,  on, allegations of incompetence under r. 12  (ii)  ofthe  Standing  Orders  of the  appellant  company.   It	 wasalleged that the dismissal of Respondent No. 3 was  welcomedby  his	 co-workers and other workmen in the employ  of	 theappellant company and they made no grievance of it, nor	 didthey espouse his cause.The  case of respondent No. 3 was not taken up by any  unionof workers of the appellant company nor by any of the unionsof  workmen  employed in similar or allied trades,  but	 theU.P.   Working	Journalists  Union,  Lucknow,	with   whichrespondent  No.	 3 had no connection  whatsoever,  took	 thematter	to the Conciliation Board,  Allahabad.	 Ultimately,the  U.P.  Government  made a reference	 to  the  IndustrialTribunal  on  June 3, 1953, by notification;  the  prefatorywords of which are:757"  Whereas an industrial dispute in respect of	the  mattershereinafter  specified exists between the concern  known  asNewspapers  Ltd., Allahabad and its workmen; and whereas  inthe opinion of the Governor it is necessary so to do for themaintenance   of   public  order  and  I   for	 maintainingemployment.One of the questions referred was:-"'  Whether  the  services  of	Sri  Tajammul  Hussain	LinoOperator were wrongfully terminated by the ManagementOn  February  13,  1953, the State  Industrial	Tribunal  atAllahabad decided in favour of respondent No. 3 and  orderedhis reinstatement " without break of continuity of service "and  also  ordered the payment of his wages for	 the  periodduring	which he "remained dismissed".	An appeal was  takenby  the appellant company to the Labour Appellate  Tribunal,who  by	 its ,order dated February 24,	1953,  affirmed	 theorder  of  the Tribunal with costs.  The  appellant  companythen moved a petition in the Allahabad High Court under Art.226  of the Constitution but this was dismissed by  BhargavaJ.  on	January 6, 1954, and a Special appeal  against	thisjudgment was also dismissed.  The appellant company has comeup  in appeal with a certificate under Art. 133 (1)  (c)  ofthe Constitution.The  controversy  which	 arises in this case  is  whether  adispute	 between  an  employer and a  single  workman  fallswithin	the definition of I industrial dispute' as  used  inthe  U.P. Act.	In order to resolve this controversy, it  isnecessary  to  refer to the scheme of the U.P. Act  and	 therelevant  rules	 made thereunder.  The preamble of  the	 Actruns: "	 to provide for powers to prevent strikes and  look-outs,  and  for the settlement of  industrial  disputes	 andother  incidental  matters ". Section 3 of the	Act  conferscertain	 powers on the State Government for the	 purpose  ofprevention of strikes, lock-outs, etc.- The portion of	thissection	 relevant  for the purpose of this appeal  reads  asfollows:If  in the opinion of the State Government, it is  necessaryor  expedient  so to do for securing the  public  safety  orconvenience, or the maintenance of public758order or supplies and services essential to the life of	 thecommunity, or for maintaining employment, it may, by generalor special order, make provision-(c)  for appointing industrial courts;(d)  for  referring any industrial dispute for	conciliationor adjudication in the manner provided in the order(g)  for  any  incidental or  supplementary  matters,  whichappear	to the State Government necessary or  expedient	 forthe purpose of the order; "Under s. 23 of the Act, the State Government can make  rulesconsistent with the Act for giving effect to the  provisionsof the Act.Under  clauses (b), (c), (d) and (g) of s. 3 and under s.  8of  the	 U.P. Act, rules governing Conciliation	 Boards	 andIndustrial   Tribunals	 in   U.P.   were   promulgated	  byNotification No. 615 (LL) XVIII-7 (LL)-1951, dated  Lucknow,March 15, 1951.	 Rule 4 deals with the reference of disputesto Conciliation Boards.	 The relevant portions of this	ruleare:,,Any workman or an employer or a registered association  ortrade  union  of  employers or	registered  trade  union  ofworkmen	 or  any federation of such  associations  or  tradeunions or where no registered trade union of workmen  existsin  any particular concern or industry, the  representativesnot more than 5 in number of the workmen in that concern  orthe  industry, duly elected in this behalf by a majority  ofthe  workmen  employed in that concern or industry,  as	 thecase  may  be,	at a meeting held for the  purpose,  may  byapplication  in writing move a Conciliation Officer  of	 thearea   for   settlement	 of  any   industrial	dispute	  byconciliation.	The  application  shall	 clearly  state	 theindustrial dispute or disputes.	 "Rule 5 deals with proceedings and the power of inclusion  ofother undertakings.  The proviso to thisrule is:"  Provided  that if the Board of its own motion  or  on  anapplication made to it, is of the opinion that any  questioninvolved in any such dispute or matter affects or is  likelyto  affect  more  than one workman in the  same	 concern  orindustry or business or more759than   one  concern  in	 the  same  industry  or   business,constituted  within  the jurisdiction  of  the	ConciliationBoard, it shall include in its proceedings relating to	suchdispute	 or  order every such workman or  concern  or  wherethere is a registered trade union covering the, majority  ofsuch concerns of workmen, such trade unions."Rules  7  to 11-A deal with Industrial Tribunals.   Rule  10gives  power  to the Government to make a reference  of	 anydispute to the Industrial Tribunal either on its own  motionor  after considering the Report of the	 Conciliation  Boardmade under r. 6.Rule 15(1) which deals with the representation of parties tothe dispute provides:" The parties may in their discretion be represented  beforea Board or Tribunal or an Adjudicator-(1)  In the case of a workman by-(a)  an officer of a registered trade union of whichhe is a member;(b)  an officer of a federation of trade unions to which thetrade union referred to in sub-clause (a) is affiliated ;(c)  Where  the	 workman is not a member of  any  registeredtrade  union,  by an officer of any registered	trade  unionconnected with, or by any other workman employed in the sameindustry  or  business, if so authorised in writing  by	 theworkman."The  language of section 36(1) of the Central Act is  almostidentical.Rule  27  prohibits strikes and look-outs; and r.  28  givesfinality and conclusiveness to the orders made or directionsgiven.The  use  of  the  word	 'workmen'  in	the  plural  in	 thedefinition of industrial dispute' does not by itself excludethe  applicability  of	the Act	 to  an	 individual  disputebecause under a. 13(2) of the General Clauses Actsubject.............(2)  words in the singular shall include the plural and viceversa,"760But in order to get its true import it is necessary to	viewthe  enactment in retrospect, the reasons-for  enacting	 it,the evils it was to end and the objects it was to  subserve.The  Act  has therefore to be viewed as a      whole and itsintention determined by construing all the constituent partsof  the Act together and not by taking detached sections  orto  take one word here and another there.  Exposition  "  exvisceribus  actus " is applicable.  Lincoln  College's	Case(1).So  construed the provisions of the U.P. Act show  that	 themachinery  of  the Act has been devised with the  object  ofmaintaining  industrial peace so as to prevent	interferencewith  public safety or public order or with the	 maintenanceof  supplies  and  services essential to  the  life  of	 thecommunity  or  of  employment.	 The Act  is  based  on	 thenecessity  of achieving collective amity between labour	 andcapital	  by   means   of   conciliation,   mediation	 andadjudication.	The object of the Act is the  prevention  ofindustrial  strife, strikes and lock-outs and the  promotionof  industrial	peace  and  not to take	 the  place  of	 theordinary  tribunals  of	 the land  for	the  enforcement  ofcontracts  between  an employer and an	individual  workman.Thus viewed the provisions of the Act lead to the conclusionthat  its applicability to an individual dispute as  opposedto  dispute involving a group of workmen is excluded  unlessit  acquires  the general characteristics of  an  industrialdispute,  viz.,	 the  workmen as a body	 or  a	considerablesection	 of  them  make common	cause  with  the  individualworkman	 and thus create conditions contemplated by s. 3  ofthe  U.P. Act which is the foundation of State	Governmentalaction	under that Act.	 The other provisions  which  followthat  section only subserve the carrying out of the  objectsof the Acts specified therein.The use of the word workman in the singular in rr. 4, 5	 and15  forms the basis of the argument for the inclusion of  anindividual  dispute  in the expression	industrial  dispute.But  this  suffers from more infirmities than one.   Rule  4authorises a workman to(1)  3 Co. Rep. 58: 76 E. R. 764.761apply  to  a Conciliation Officer for the settlement  of  anindustrial dispute.  The meaning sought to be given to	thisword is inconsistent with the language of the latter part ofthat rule; or where no registered trade union of workmen exists in anyconcern or industry, the representatives not more than 5  innumber of the workmen............ duly elected."The  first  proviso to r. 5 is no surer foundation  for	 theargument  because in the context it can only be	 interpretedto mean that, should there be an industrial dispute then allworkmen who may individually be the cause of the dispute  orare to be affected by its decision should get notices of theproceedings.   Similarly,  r.  15  only	 provides  for	 therepresentation of " a workman " even if he is only one by anofficer	 of a trade union or other person mentioned  in	 therule.	Besides, s. 13(2) of the General Clauses Act  as  tothe interpretation of the singular and the plural  consider-ably reduces the efficacy of the argument, which  altogetherloses its force in view of r. 26 which is as follows :"  During  the pendency of any	conciliation  proceeding  orproceedings before the Tribunal or an Adjudicator in respectof  any	 dispute  an employer shall not	 (a)  alter  to	 theprejudice  of  the  workmen concerned in  such	dispute	 theconditions of service applicable to them immediately  beforethe  commencement  of such proceedings or (b)  discharge  orpunish,	  whether  such	 punishment  is	 by   dismissal	  orotherwise,  any workman concerned in such dispute save	withthe express permission in writing of a Conciliation  Officerof  the area concerned irrespective of the fact whether	 thedispute	 is  pending before a Board or the  Tribunal  or  anAdjudicator."The  use of the words " workmen" and " workman in the  aboverule  is  indicative  of  the intention	 of  the  Act  beingapplicable  to	collective disputes and	 not  to  individualones, and this is fortified by the finality and the  bindingeffect	to awards by r. 28 and more speciall.v by a.  18  ofthe Central Act which makes98762awards	binding	 not  only on  the  individuals	 present  orrepresented   but  on  all  the	 workmen  employed  in	 theestablishment and even on future entrants.Another objection to reading these rules in the manner abovesuggested  is that it would be tantamount to  enlarging	 thescope of the expression 'industrial dispute' and the  powersconferred  on the State Government under s. 3 of the  U.  P.Act.  The executive cannot under the power of framing  rulesand regulations clothe itself with powers which the  Statuteitself	does  not give and which are inconsistent  with	 theinterpretation	put on the expression 'industrial  dispute'.The  cardinal rule in regard to promulgation of bye-laws  ormaking	rules  is  that	 they must  be	legi  fidei  rationiconsona, and therefore all regulations which are contrary orrepugnant  to  statutes	 under	which  they  are  made	 areineffective.   If  the expression I industrial	dispute'  asordinarily  understood	and,  construed	 conveys  a  disputebetween	 an employer on the one hand and the workmen  actingcollectively  on  the other, then the  definition  of  thosewords  cannot be widened by a statutory rule  or  regulationpromulgated under the Statute or by Executive fiat.I  The notification in the present case was under  s.  3(c),(d)  and  (g)  and  under  s. 8	 which	deal  with  (c)	 theappointment   of  industrial  Courts,  (d)   referring	 anyindustrial  disputes  and (g)  incidental  or  supplementarymatters.  The Executive may in the exercise of these  powersmake  such  regulations which are necessary but	 under	thatgarb it cannot extend the definition of the term  industrialdisputes, nor is this extended meaning necessary to subservethe objects of the Act.I  In our opinion therefore rules- 4, 5 and 15 of the  Rulescannot	be  a valid foundation for sustaining  the  argumentraised that an individual dispute was within the  definitionof 'industrial dispute'.  Ordinarily, an award of a tribunalbinds  or affects the rights of parties to  the	 proceedingsbut   awards   of   Industrial	 Tribunals   have   extendedimplications  and may affect the rights of all workmen of  aconcern	 or undertaking end even the future entrants.	Thisdoctrine of763representation	which enlarges the meaning of  'parties'  inthe U.P. & Central Acts is an essential idea associated withindustrial disputes and support-, collectiveness as  opposedto  individualism.   See  Latham  C.  J.  in  Metal   TradesEmployers Association v. Amalgamated Engineering Union(1).Then  there is the prohibition under r. 26 of the  U.P.	 Actand  s.	 33  of	 the  Central  Act  against  any  change  inconditions of service during the pendency of the proceedingsthe  object of which is to ensure discipline and  industrialtruce during that period which also supports the basic	ideaof collectiveness in 'industrial disputes'.In  Central Provinces Transport Services Ltd.  V.  RaghunathGopal Patwardhan (2), this Court observed that decided casesin  India  disclose  three  views  as  to  the	meaning	  of'industrial dispute'(i)  a	dispute	 between an employer and  a  single  workmancannot be an 'industrial dispute';(ii) it can be an industrial dispute; and(iii)	  it can not per se be an industrial dispute butmay  become one if taken up by a trade union or a number  ofworkmen.This  Court  discussed the scope of  industrial	 dispute  asdefined in s. 2(k), of the Central Act, and after  referringto the conflict of judicial opinion as to its  applicabilityto  the case of a dispute between an employer and  a  singleworkman further observed:of  the last of the three views stated above, and  there  isconsiderable  reason  behind it.  Notwithstanding  that	 thelanguage  of  s.  2(k) is wide enough  to  cover  a  disputebetween an employer and a single employee, the scheme of theIndustrial Disputes Act does appear to contemplate that- themachinery  provided  therein  should be set  in	 motion,  tosettle only disputes which involve the rights of workmen  asa class and that a dispute touching the individual rights ofa  workman  was	 not  intended	to  be	the  subject  of  anadjudication under the Act, when the same had not been takenup by the union or a number of workmen."(1) [1935] 54 C.L.R. 387.(2) [1956] S.C.R. 956.764Although the question did not directly arise, this Court  inD  . N. Banerji v. P. R. Mukherjee and	others(1)  discussedthe  meaning of the expression 'industrial dispute' and	 wasof the opinion that it "conveys the meaning to the  ordinarymind  that  the dispute must be such as would  affect  largegroups	 of  workmen  and  employers  ranged   on   oppositesides......  But  at  the same time, having  regard  to	 themodern	conditions of society where capital an	labour	haveorganised themselves into groups for the purpose of fightingtheir disputes and settling them on the basis of the  theorythat  in  union is strength, and collective  bargaining	 hascome  to stay, a single employee's. case might develop	intoan industrial dispute, when as often happens, it is taken upby  the trade union of which he is a member and there  is  aconcerted demand by the employees for redress".This  view is in consonance with the basic  idea  underlyingmodern industrial legislation.	The interpretation given  tothe corresponding phrase "trade dispute" in English law	 and"industrial  dispute"  in Australian Law also  accords	withthis view and in the absence of an express provision to	 thecontrary or necessary intendment there is no reason to	givea  different interpretation to the expression in the  IndianStatute.According  to English decisions an individual dispute  of  aworkman is not included in 'trade dispute' which correspondsto  'Industrial Dispute' in the Indian Act.  In the  EnglishTrade Disputes Act of 1906 and 1919 as also in Reg. 58-AA ofthe Defence (General) Regulation, 1939, 'trade dispute'	 wasdefined in language very similar to 'industrial dispute'  inthe Indian Statute.  Dealing with a trade dispute, Lord Shawin Conway v, Wade (2) said,:"  But	I  cannot see my way to hold  that  "trade  dispute"necessarily  includes  accordingly every case of  person  aldifference  between any one workman and one or more  of	 hisfellows.  It is true that after a, certain stage even such adispute, although originally grounded,(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 302, 310.(2)  [1909] A.C, 596, 520.765it may be, upon personal animosity, may come to be a subjectin  which sides are taken, and may develop into a  situationof  a  general aspect containing the  characteristics  of  atrade dispute; but until it reaches that stage I cannot holdthat a trade dispute necessarily exists."Lord  Wright  observed	in  National  Association  of  LocalGovernment Officers v. Bolton Corporation (1)" I think the same may be said of the Industrial Courts	 Actand of reg. 58-AA, in both of which the word 'trade' is usedin  the	 very wide connotation which it bears in  the  modemlegislation   dealing	with   conditions   of	 employment,particularly in relation to matters of collective bargainingand the like.."Ex  parte  Keable  Press  Ltd.(2)  was	an  instance  of  anindividual   dispute  developing  into	a  'trade   dispute'because.  of  the  strike by a union to	 enforce  the  rein-statement  of  dismissed workman.  That was  how  this	term(trade dispute) was interpreted by the Court of Appeal in R.v.  National  Arbitration  Tribunal(3)	after  taking	intoconsideration the definition of the word 'dispute'.In Australian cases also, without specific reference to	 anydefinition of the phrase the courts have excluded individualdisputes from the scope of industrial disputes.	 In JumbunnaCoal Mine v. Victorian Coal Miners Association (4), GriffthsC.J. observed:" An industrial dispute exists where a considerable  number-of employees engaged in some branch of industry make  commoncause  in  demanding  from or refusing	to  their  employers(whether  one  or  more) some change in	 the  conditions  ofemployment	   which	is	   denied	  tothem................................................... "Similarly  in  Federated  Saw  Mills  &	 Co.  Employees	  ofAustralasia  v.	 James	Moore & Son  Proprietory  Ltd.	(5),Griffths  C.J.	gave the characteristics  of  an  industrialdispute as follows:"  It  is necessary at the outset to  consider	the  meaningwhich the term 'industrial dispute' conveyed(1)  [1943] A.C. 166, 185.(2)  [1943] 2 All E.R. 633.(3)  [1951] 2 All E.R. 828.(4)  [1908] 6 C.L.R. 309, 332.	     (5) [1909] 8 C.L.R. 465, 487, 488.766in 1900 to the, minds of persons conversant with theEnglish language....................."The   word   'industrial  denotes   two   qualities   whichdistinguish  them  from ordinary  private  disputes  betweenindividuals,  namely  (2) that on one side at least  of	 thedispute the disputants are a body of men acting collectivelyand  not individually." Isaacs J. in George Hudson  Ltd.  v.Australian Timber Workers' Union(1) stated:"The   very   nature   of  an	'industrial   dispute',	  asdistinguished  from an individual dispute, is to obtain	 newindustrisl   conditions,   not	merely	for   the   specificindividuals  then working It is &'battle by  the  claimants,not for themselves alone and not as against the	 respondentsalone, but by the claimants so far. as they represent  theirclassAccording  to Griffths C.J. "The term- "industrial  dispute"connotes  a,  real and substantial  difference	having	someelement	 of  persistency, and likely, if  not  adjusted,  toendanger  the  industrial  peace of  the  community".	VideFederated Saw Mills Case(2) at p. 488.	The same meaning wasattached  to the expression by Latham C.J. in Metal  TradersEmployers Association v. Amwlgamated Engineering Union(3) atp. 403:"Industrial disputes are essentially group contests-there isalways an industrial group on at least one side.  A claim ofan individual employee against his employer is not in itselfan  industrial	dispute	 We shall now refer  to	 the  Indiandecisions which bear on this question.Rajamannar  C.J.  in Kandan Textile Ltd. v.  The  IndustrialTribunal,,Madras and another(4) held that the definition  ofindustrial dispute is wide enough to cover a dispute betweenan  employer  and  an individual  workman  but	taking	intoconsideration s. 18 of the Central Act he was of the opinionthat such an extended definition cannot be given to it in s.2(k)  of the Central Act.  Mack J. agreed with the  decisionof Rajamannar C. J. but he said that the case of anEnglish language.,(1)  (1923] 32 C.L.R. 413, 441.(2)  [1909] 8 C.L.R. 465, 487, 488.(3)  [1935] 54 C.L.R. 387, 403.(4)  A.I.R. 1951 Madras 616.767individual  workman if taken up by the worker's union  makessuch  a	 dispute an industrial dispute.	 In that  case	1  1items	of  difference	were  referred	to  the	  IndustrialTribunal.,  One	 of the items in dispute  was  the  wrongfulremoval of a workman, Sundaram by name.	 In the', High Courtan  objection was taken to the legality of the award on	 theground that no industrial dispute existed and that there wasno  material before the Government on the basis of which  itcould make a reference.	 It was held that the dispute as  toa  single  workman was not an  industrial  dispute.   KandanTextile	 Ltd.  case (1) was followed  in  United  CommercialBank,  Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Labour, Madras (2)  whichwas   a	  case	under  s.  41  of  the	Madras	 Shops	 andEstablishments	Act  and  the right of appeal  given  to  anindividual  employee  against  the  order  of  the  employerdispensing with his services under s. 41(2) of Madras  Shopsand Establishments Act was challenged on the ground that  ithad been taken away by the Central Act.	 It was held that anindividual  worker  had the right  to  appeal.	 VishwanathaSastri	J.  in his judgment referred with  approval  to	 thedistinction  made  between  an	individual  dispute  and  anindustrial  dispute  in Kandan Textile	Ltd.  v.  IndustrialTribunal, Madras (supra).The  second  view  that	 such a	 dispute  falls	 within	 thedefinition of the word "industrial dispute" is supported  bya decision of a Full Bench of the Labour Appellate Tribunal-Swadeshi  Cotton Mills Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen  (3)  Therethe question was mainly decided on the- basis of s. 33-A  ofthe  Central Act (introduced in 1950) which gives the  rightto an individual workman dismissed or dealt with contrary tos.  33 of the Act during an industrial dispute to raise	 thematter before a tribunal.  The introduction of s. 33-A wouldnot  alter  the	 construction to be  placed  on	 the  phrase'industrial dispute'.  On the contrary it supports the	viewthat an individual dispute is not comprised in that  phrase.In  view of what has been said above, we are of the  opinionthat in so far as that case lay& down(3)  [1953] 1 L.L.J. 757.768that  a	 dispute raised by an individual workman as  to	 hispersonal  grievance  is	 within an  industrial	dispute,  itcannot be said to have been correctly decided.The cases which support the third view are the following:J.   Chowdhury v. M. C. Bannerjee (1) Was a case in which  alino operator was removed from service on the ground of	 hisnegligence and arrears of work.	 The matter was referred  tothe   Industrial  Tribunal  under  the	Central	 Act.	 TheManagement  moved  the	High Court under  Art.	226  of	 theConstitution and s. 45 of the Specific Relief Act and it washeld that the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to entertain	 thematter	as  on	a perusal of the  various  sections  of	 theCentral	 Act  including	 ss. 10 and 18	the  dispute  of  anindividual  workman was not covered by the  term  industrialdispute.'In Bilash Chandra Mitra v. Balmer Lawrie & Co.a  suit was brought for the recovery of arrears of wages  onthe basis of an award of an Industrial Tribunal and one	 -ofthe issues raised was' whether an 'individual dispute'	fellwithin	'industrial dispute'.  Following the judgment in  I.Chowdhury  v. M. C. Bannerjee (1), Bose J. held that it	 didnot.Another case in which this view was held is N. 1.  AssuranceCo. v. C. G. I. Tribunal (3).  There the Government referredthe question of dismissal of an employee of an Assurance Co.and  it	 was not proved that his case was taken	 up  by	 theemployees  association.	  The  same  view  was	adopted	  inStandard Vacuum Oil Co. v. Industrial Tribunal (4).In  Lakshmi  Talkies, Madras v. Munuswami  and	Others	(5),Balakrishna Ayyar J. held that an industrial dispute' ariseswhere  a  case	of an individual workman is  espoused  by  aunion.	 The same view was taken in Lynus & Co.	 v.  HemantaKumar Samanta (6).The  view  taken  in  these cases  is  in  accord  with	 theinterpretation	we  have put on the  expression	 'Industrialdispute' as defined in the U. P. Act or the Central Act.(1)  [1935] 55 C.W.N. 256.(2)  [1953] A?	C.W.N. tog.(3) [l953] I.L.R.  32 Patna 181(4)  I.L.R. [1952] Trav.Co. 432.(5)  [1055] L.L.J. 477.'(6) [1956] 2 L.L.J. 89,769Taking into consideration the whole tenor of the Act and thedecisions of this Court the decided cases to the extent thatthey  take a contrary view, i.e., an individual	 dispute  iscomprised  in an 'industrial dispute' must unless  there  issomething peculiar- as to facts, beIn  spite of the fact that the making of a reference by	 theGovernment under the Industrial Disputes Act is the exerciseof its administrative powers, that is not destructive of therights of an aggrieved party to show that what was  referredwas  not  an 'industrial dispute' at all and  therefore	 thejurisdiction  of the Industrial Tribunal to make  the  awardcan  be questioned, even though the factual existence  of  adispute may not be subject to a party's challenge.  State ofMadras v. C. P.Sarathy (1),It may also be noted that the notification issued by the  U.P. Government on January 3, 1953, already quoted proceeds onthe  assumption that a dispute exists between the  "employerand  his workmen".  The points of dispute in the  reference,however, comprise the wrongful termination of the service ofonly  Tajammul Hussain, a lino operator.  The words used  inthe first part of the notification show that the  Governmentwas  labouring under the misapprehension that  this  disputewas between the employer on the one hand and his workmen  onthe  other,  which, in fact it was  not.   Tajammul  Hussaincould not be termed work-, men (in the plural) nor could theU. P. Working Journalists Union be called "his workmen"	 noris there any indication that the individual dispute had	 gottransformed  into  an industrial dispute.  The	very  basis,therefore,  of the reference was bad and must be held to  beso.We would, therefore, allow this appeal with costs.Appeal allowed.(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 334, 347.99770