PETITIONER:THE MANAGEMENT OF PRAGA INDUSTRIESLTD., COIMBATORE	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE WORKERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/05/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1194		  1960 SCR  (1) 161ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Award  by consent-lnterim  increment  Ofwages  in lieu of fixation of wage structure-Such award,  ifopen  to  challenge-Wage structure  of	piece-rate  workmen-Whether	  entitled  to	annual	increment-Machinery,   land,building     on	    lease-Rehabilitation     charges,	  ifallowable-Bonus-Calculation of available surplus.HEADNOTE:The appellant was the lessee under Praga Industries and tookon lease buildings and machinery for five years with  optionof renewal.  The subject matter of dispute for	adjudicationwas  with regard to the questions about (1) the	 quantum  ofbonus  payable	to the workmen for the year  1954,  and	 (2)fixation of scale of wages with graded annual increments fordifferent categories of workmen.In view of the fact that the lease in its favour was due  toexpire shortly, the appellant had suggested to the  Tribunalthat  the question of classifying the workmen  into  skilledand unskilled workmen and providing for systematic grades ofpay with increments may conveniently be deferred to a futuredate; the21162respondents agreed to this proposal and so both the  partiesrepresented to the Tribunal that they would be satisfied  ifan   interim order was made providing for the  increment  inthe  wages   of	 the  workmen.	 Accordingly,  the  Tribunalrefrained from fixing any wage structure, and as an  interimmeasure,  ordered  increment  of wages at 4  per  cent.	 anddirected the appellant to grant such an increment every yearuntil the workmen were classified and their pay scales	wereintroduced to reach a particular maximum.The  above increment applied to the monthly, time and  piecerated workmen.The appellant challenged the propriety of the course adoptedby the Tribunal and contended that the Tribunal was asked tofix  a wage structure, but instead it had passed  merely  aninterim order which was irregular.The  appellant	also  contended	 that  the  claim  for	 theadditional  bonus for the year 1954 by the workmen  was	 notjustified as the financial position of the appellant was notsatisfactory, and it was in debts and had not even paid rentdue to the lessor, and in fact, had ploughed back the amountof  rent  due  into the business as  working  capital.	 Theappellant  also resisted the direction for payment of  bonuson the ground that the award involved an unfair distributionof the available surplus and claimed rehabilitation  chargesfor  the leased property and machinery and interest  on	 theamount of unpaid rent.Held,  that where the parties themselves represented to	 theTribunal  that the question of classifying respondents	intoskilled	 and unskilled workmen and providing for  systematicgrades	of pay with increments may be conveniently  deferredto  a  future  date  and they  would  be  satisfied  with  areasonable  interim  order providing for  increment  in	 thewages  of  the workmen, it was not open to  the	 parties  tochallenge the award based on such representation at a  laterstage.That  although	generally  a  wage  structure  with   annualincrements was not provided for piece rate workers, who	 arepaid for the work they do, the rate of wages fixed for	suchworkers could legitimately be revised on a proper case beingmade out in that behalf.Held  further,	that where an amount earmarked	as  due	 forpayment	 for  some  other purpose was  utilised	 as  workingcapital,  it  should carry interest, even  though  shown  asliability in the profit and loss account and the same shouldbe  taken  into consideration for arriving  at	the  surplusavailable for the purposes of bonus.That  no prior charges for rehabilitation could	 be  allowedwhere  land, machinery and building for business were  takenon  lease.  Where new machinery was purchased the amount  ofrehabilitation was covered by the depreciation allowed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 226 of 1958.163Appeal	by special leave from the award dated May 30,  1957,of  the Labour Court, Coimbatore, in Industrial Dispute	 No.89 of 1955.A.   V.	 Viswanatha Sastri and T. V. R. Tatachari,  for	 theappellants.M. S. K. Sastri, for the respondents.1959.  May 8. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGARKAR J.-This appeal by special leave arises out ofan  industrial	dispute	 between  the  Management  of  PragaIndustries  (P) Ltd., (hereafter called the  appellant)	 andits workmen (hereafter called the respondents).	 The disputewhich	was  referred  by  the	Government  of	Madras	 foradjudication  to  tile	Industrial  Tribunal  at  Coimbatorecovered four items.  Two of them were settled by  compromisebetween the parties and the remaining two were the  subject-matter	of  adjudication.  They are the question  about	 thequantum	 of  bonus payable to the respondents for  the	year1954 and the question of fixing scales of wages with  gradedannual	increments for different categories of	respondents.The  tribunal  has  ordered  the appellant  to	pay  to	 therespondents  by	 way  of bonus	three  months'	wages.	 Theappellant  had already paid one month's bonus and so it	 hadbeen  directed to pay bonus for two months more.  In  regardto  the	 fixation  of the wage structure  the  tribunal	 hasrefrained  from fixing any wage structure at present and  asan interim measure it has ordered the appellant to grant allits workmen all increment at the rate of 4% and to  continueto  grant  such	 an  increment every  year  until  they	 areclassified  and	 their pay scale is introduced	to  reach  aparticular maximum.  It is these two directions in the awardwhich are challenged by the appellant in the present appeal.The  appellant is a private limited company carrying on	 thebusiness  of  manufacturing  nut  and  plastic	buttons	  inCoimbatore  as a lessee under Praga Industries,	 Coimbatore,which  is a partnership firm.  The appellant took  on  leasefrom the said firm land, buildings164and  machinery belonging to it under an indenture  of  leaseexecuted  on  January 15, 1954.	 Under this deed  a  monthlyrental of Rs. 5,000 has to be paid by the appellant for fiveyears;	the  lease  includes a clause by which	a  right  ofrenewal	 is  given to the appellant for a  period  of  threeyears.The appellant's case was that its financial position was notsatisfactory;  that it had to borrow an overdraft  from	 theIndian Bank Limited, Coimbatore, under an overdraft  accountwhich  left the appellant a debtor to the said Bank  to	 theextent	of Rs. 48,414 in 1954.	The appellant had  also	 notpaid the rent due to the lessor for the said year and had infact  ploughed	back the said amount of rent of	 Rs.  60,000into  the  business  of the appellant  as  working  capital.According to the appellant, under the Full Bench formula therespondents' claim for additional bonus was not justified.On  the other hand the respondents urged that the  appellantwas making large profits and their claim for bonus was fullyjustified.   The respondents also alleged that it  was	hightime that a proper wage structure was fixed by the  tribunalguaranteeing  to the respondents the payment of	 fair  wageswith  fair annual increments with a view to reach  specifiedmaximums.On  behalf  of	the  appellant	Mr.  Viswanatha	 Sastri	 haschallenged  the	 propriety  of the  course  adopted  by	 thetribunal in making an interim order about the increments  inwages of the appellant's employees.  The tribunal was  askedto  fix a wage structure under issue No. 3. Instead  it	 hascome out with an interim order which is very irregular, saysMr.  Sastri.   In  our	opinion	 this  argument	 is   whollyuntenable.   It is clear from the award that  the  appellantitself	suggested  to  the tribunal that the  lease  in	 itsfavour	was due to expire within a year and a half and	thatthe question of classifying the respondents into skilled andunskilled workmen and providing for systematic grades of paywith  increments  may be conveniently deferred to  a  futuredate.	The respondents agreed to this suggestion, and	bothparties	 represented  to  the tribunal that  they  would  besatisfied if a reasonable interim order165was  made  providing  for  increment in	 the  wages  of	 therespondents.  That being so, it is not open to the appellantnow  to contend that the tribunal should have fixed  a	wagestructure and not passed an interim' order.On the merits of the interim order the only objection  whichhas been raised by the appellant before us is in respect  ofthe  application of the said order;-to	piece-rate  workers.It  appears that on October 25, 1955, an agreement had	beenreached	 between. the appellant and the respondents  and  bycls. 5 and 6 of this agreement it was settled that an annualincrement  of 4% of the basic pay for all the  monthly-ratedand  time-rated	 employees  should be given,  and  that	 therevised wages should come into force from November 1,  1955.That  being  so, Mr. Sastri has not challenged	the  interimorder passed by the tribunal in respect of the	monthlyratedand  the  daily-rated workmen.	His grievance  is  that	 thetribunal was in error in making a similar order in regard tothe piece-rated workmen.It is true that generally annual increments in the wages  ofpiece-rated  workers  are not provided.	 These	workers	 arepaid  by the work which they do though the rates  fixed	 forsuch payment relay be legitimately increased in proper casesusually	 a  wage  structure with annual	 increments  is	 notprovided for such piecerated workers.  It is on this  aspectof  the	 matter	 that  Mr.  Sastri  has	 laid	considerableemphasis.   On the other hand, Mr. Joseph Nejedly  who	gaveevidence for the appellant frankly admitted that  piece-ratewages  had  been fixed in 1947 and though  there  were	somechanges	 in them they were insignificant.  He also  concededthat  since  1947  the	cost  of  living  had  gone  up	  inCoimbatore.  These statements make it clear that a case	 forrevising  the rates of wages payable to	 piecerated  workershas been made out Asmuch as in the case of monthly-rated  ordaily-rated workmen.  Therefore we think that the  appellantcannot	successfully challenge the direction issued  by	 thetribunal  in  regard to the increment of 4% in the  case  ofrates  of  wages fixed for piece-rated workers.	  We  would,however,  like	to  modify the interim order  in  regard  topiece-rated166workers by directing that though their rates of wages shouldbe  increased  at the rate of 4% they should  not  have	 thebenefit	 of the annual increment at the said rate until	 allthe  workers  are  classified  and  their  pay	scales	 areintroduced.   In  other words, we confirm this part  of	 theaward	with  the  only	 modification  that  future   annualIncrement  at  the rate of 4% should not be granted  to	 thepiece-rated workers.The next contention raised by Mr. Sastri is in regard to theorder  made by the award directing the appellant to pay	 twomonths' additional bonus to the respondents.  It is now wellsettled	 that  the claim for bonus must be  decided  by	 theapplication  of the Full Bench formula.	 In the	 applicationof  the formula, there are only two items which	 have  givenrise  to  a  controversy in the	 present  proceedings.	 Theappellant  claimed that he should be allowed 4% interest  onRs.  60,000 either on the basis that this interest would  bepayable	 to the lessor since default had been  committed  inthe  payment of rent due to him ; or on the basis  that	 thesaid  amount  had been utilised as working  capital  and  soshould	carry 4% interest.  In our opinion the latter  claimis well founded and must be upheld.  There is no doubt	thatthe monthly rent of Rs. 5,000 payable to the lessor,  thoughshown as a liability in the profit and loss account, has  infact not been paid to the lessor; and it is also clear	thatthe  whole of this amount has in fact been used	 as  workingcapital	 by  the  appellant.  Therefore its  claim  to	haveinterest  at  40% on this amount cannot be resisted  by	 therespondents.   The  tribunal was inclined  to  dissect	thisclaim month by month and to consider the question of  returnon  the amount month by month.	We do not think that  it  isnecessary to adopt such a course in the present case.The  other  clam  made by the appellant	 is  in	 respect  ofimprovement   and  modernisation  of  its  machinery.	 Theappellant  claimed Rs. 20,000 under this head.	 This  claimhas been rejected by the tribunal, and we think rightly,  Aswe have already observed, the appellant has taken the  land,machinery  and buildings for its business as a	lessee	fromthe  Praga  Industries,	 Coimbatore, and  so  the  appellantcannot claim to167rehabilitate  any of the said machinery and plant.   If	 theappellant has purchased new machinery in 1954 the amount  ofrehabilitation	which the appellant can claim in respect  ofthe  said machinery for 1954 is covered by the	depreciationallowed to the appellant., This position is not disputed  byMr.  Sastri.  Therefore we are satisfied that the  appellantis  not entitled to claim Rs. 20,000 as a prior	 charge	 forrehabilitation.If  the	 Full Bench formula is worked out in  the  light  ofthese  findings there can be no doubt that the tribunal	 wasjustified in directing the appellant to pay additional bonusfor  two months.  It is common ground that, taking  the	 netprofit at Rs. 42,726, if the depreciation and the bonus paidfor 1953 are added back, the figure of gross profit would beRs.  69,546.   From  this  figure  if  the  notional  normaldepreciation,  income-tax, return at 6% on  paid-up  capitaland  return  at	 4% on working capital	of  Rs.	 60,000	 arededucted, it still leaves a balance of over Rs. 26,000.	 Thethree  months'	bonus, including one month's  bonus  alreadypaid  by  the appellant; awarded by the tribunal is  in	 theneighborhood of Rs. 22,000 but in respect of this bonus	 theappellant would be entitled to a rebate of income-tax to theextent of Rs. 12,300.  That being so, it cannot be said thatthe  order  passed  by	the  tribunal  involves	 an   unfairdistribution of the available surplus.In  the result the appeal substantially fails and the  awardpassed by the tribunal is confirmed with the modification asto  the	 future annual increments in regard  to	 piece-ratedworkers.   In the circumstances of this case we direct	thatthe parties should bear their own costs.Appeal substantially dismissed; award partially modified.168