PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,BOMBAY CITY, BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:BIPINCHANDRA MAGANLAL AND CO.  LTD.,BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:17/11/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1040		  1961 SCR  (2) 493 CITATOR INFO : R	    1965 SC1977	 (11) RF	    1966 SC 870	 (11) R	    1973 SC1034	 (21) F	    1977 SC 560	 (7) R	    1978 SC1099	 (4,7)ACT:Income-tax-Profit and assessable income-Difference between-Smallness of profit--How determined-Indian Income-tax Act,1922 (11 of 1922), SS.	10 (2) (VII) second proviso, 66(1).HEADNOTE:The  respondent company purchased certain machinery for	 Rs.89,000	and sold it for the same value, but in the books  ofaccount the written down value of the machinery was shown inthe  year of account as Rs. 73,392.  The Income Tax  Officerin computing the assessable income of the company added	 thedifference,  i.e. Rs. 15,608, between the actual  value	 andthe  written down value to the profit of the  company.	 TheIncome Tax Officer also passed an order under S. 23A of	 theIncome Tax Act, and directed that the undistributed  portionof  the	 assessable  income, shall be deemed  to  have	beendistributed  amongst the shareholders as dividend.   Appealsagainst	  the  order  of  the  Income-tax   Officer   provedunsuccessful   and  the	 Appellate  Tribunal  referred	 thefollowing question to the High Court under s. 66(1):-"Whether the sum of Rs. 15,608 should have been included  inthe  assessee company's "profit" for the purpose  of  deter-mining	whether the payment of a larger dividend  than	thatdeclared by it would be unreasonable."The  High Court answered the question in the  negative.	  Onappeal by special leave,Held, that the view taken by the High Court was correct.494By  the fiction in S. 10(2)(Vii) second proviso,  read	withs.2(6C),  what is really not income is, for the	 purpose  ofcomputation  of assessable income, made taxable income:	 buton  that account, it does not become commercial profit,	 andif it is not commercial profit, it is not liable to be takeninto  account in assessing whether in view of the  smallnessof profits a larger dividend would be unreasonable."Smallness of profit" should not be equated with  "smallnessof assessable income" but should be determined in accordancewith commercial principles.Sir  Kasturchand Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  BombayCity, (1949) XVII I.T.R. 493, Ezra Proprietary Estates	Ltd.v.  Commissioner  of Income-tax, West Bengal,  (1950)  XVIIII.T.R. 762 and Commissioner of Income-tax Bombay City v.  F.L.  Smith  &  Co. (Bombay) Ltd.,  (1959)  XXXV	I.T.R.	183,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 761 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary 24, 1955, of the former Bombay High Court in I.T.R.48/X of 1954.Hardayal Hardy and D. Gupta, for the appellant.N.   A. Palkhivala and I. N. Shroff, for the respondent.1960.  November 17.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySHAH,  J.-The  Income Tax Appellate Tribunal,  Bombay  Bench"A",  referred under s. 66(1) of the Indian Income Tax	Act,1922-hereinafter  referred  to	as  the	 Act-the   followingquestion:"Whether the sum of Rs. 15,608 should have been included  inthe   assessee	Company's  "profit"  for  the	purpose	  ofdetermining  whether the payment of a larger  dividend	thanthat declared by it would be unreasonable ?"The  High  Court  answered the	question  in  the  negative.Against	 the  order of the High Court,	with  special  leaveunder	Art.  136  of  the  Constitution,  this	 appeal	  ispreferred.M/s.  Bipinchandra Maganlal & Co., Ltd.-hereinafter referredto  as the Company-is registered under the Indian  CompaniesAct, The Company is one in495which the public are not substantially interested within themeaning	 of  s.	 23A Explanation of the	 Act.	Its  paid-upcapital	 at  the  material time was Rs. 20,800	made  up  asfollows:20  shares of Rs. 50 each fully paid up and 1980  shares  ofRs. 50 each, Rs. 10 being paid up per share.In  December 1945, the Company purchased  certain  machineryfor Rs. 89,000 and sold it sometime in March, 1947, for	 theprice  for which it was originally purchased.  In the  booksof  account  of the Company, the written down value  of	 themachinery  in the year of account 1946-47 (April 1, 1946  toMarch 31, 1947) was Rs. 73,392.	 The trading profits of	 theCompany	 as disclosed by its books of account for  the	year194647	were  Rs. 33,245.  At the General  Meeting  held  onOctober	 21,  1947. the Company declared a dividend  of	 Rs.12,000	for the year of account.  In assessing tax  for	 theyear of assessment 1947-48, the Income Tax Officer  computedthe assessable income of the Company for the year of account1946-47 at Rs. 48,761 after adding back to the profit of Rs.33,245	returned  by  the Company, Rs.	15,608	realised  inexcess	of the written down value of the machinery  sold  inMarch,	1947.  The Income Tax Officer passed an order  unders.  23A of the Act that Rs. 15,429 (being the  undistributedportion	 of the assessable income of the Company as  reducedby  taxes payable) shall be deemed to have been	 distributedas  dividend amongst the shareholders as at the date of	 theGeneral	 Meeting,  and	the  proportionate  share  of	eachshareholder shall be included in his total income.   Appealspreferred  against  his	 order to  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  and the Income Tax Appellate  Tribunal  provedunsuccessful, but the Appellate Tribunal at the instance  ofthe  Company referred the question set out  hereinbefore  tothe High Court at Bombay under a.  66(1) of the Act.Section	 23A(1) of the Act as it stood at the relevant	time(in so far as it is material) was as follows:"Where	the Income Tax Officer is satisfied that in  respectof  any previous year the profits and gains  distributed  asdividends by any company upto the end496of the sixth month after its accounts for that previous yearare laid before the company in general meeting are less than60% of the assessable income of the company of that previousyear,  as reduced by the amount of income-tax and  super-taxpayable by the company in respect thereof, he shall,  unlesshe is satisfied that having regard to losses incurred by thecompany	 in earlier years or to the smallness of the  profitmade,  the payment of a dividend or a larger  dividend	thanthat declared would be unreasonable, make with the  previousapproval  of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner an  orderin writing that the undistributed portion of the  assessableincome of the company of that previous year as computed	 forincome-tax purposes and reduced by the amount of  income-taxand  super-tax	payable by the company	in  respect  thereofshall  be  deemed  to have  been  distributed  as  dividendsamongst	 the  share-holders as at the date  of	the  generalmeeting aforesaid..............Clearly,  by s. 23A, the Income Tax Officer is	required  topass  an order directing that the undistributed	 portion  ofthe  assessable income of any company (in which	 the  publicare  not substantially interested) shall be deemed  to	havebeen distributed as dividends amongst the shareholders if heis satisfied that (i) the company has not distributed 60% ofits  assessable income of the previous year reduced  by	 theIncome-tax  and super-tax payable, (ii) unless payment of  adividend,  or a larger dividend than that  declared,  havingregard to (a) losses incurred by the company in the  earlieryears  or  (b)	the smallness of the  profits  made  in	 theprevious year, be unreasonable.	 The total assessable incomeof  the Company for the year of account was Rs.	 48,761	 andthe  tax payable thereon was Rs. 21,332: 60% of	 Rs.  27,249(assessable  income reduced by the income tax and  super-taxdue) exceeded the dividend declared by Rs. 4,458.  The firstcondition to the exercise of jurisdiction by the Income	 TaxOfficer	 under S. 23A was therefore indisputably  fulfilled.But the Income Tax Officer had497still to be satisfied whether having regard to the smallnessof  the profit (there is no evidence in this case that	losswas  incurred by the Company in earlier years), it would  beunreasonable to distribute dividend larger than the dividendactually declared.  The Income Tax Officer did not expresslyconsider  this	question:  he rested  his  decision  on	 therejection  of the contention raised by the Company that	 thedifference  between the price of the machinery	realised  bysale and the written down value in the year of account couldnot be	  taken	 into account in passing an order  under  S.23A.  He, it seems, assumed that if that difference be takeninto  account,	distribution  of  larger  dividend  was	 notunreasonable,  and the Tribunal proceeded upon	the  footingthat the assumption was correctly made.Counsel	 for  the Revenue submits in support of	 the  appealthat  the expression " smallness of profit " means  no	morethan  smallness	 of the assessable income, and that  in	 anyevent, in the computation of profits, the amount realised bysale  of the machinery in the year of account in  excess  ofits  written  down  value  was	liable	to  be	included  inconsidering whether the condition relating to "smallness  ofprofit" was fulfilled.At  the material time, s. 2(6C) of the Act defined  "income"as inclusive amongst others of any sum deemed to be  profitsunder  the second proviso to cl. (vii) of sub-s. (2)  of  s.10.  By s. 10, in the computation of profits or gains of  anassessee  under	 the head "Profits and	gains  of  business,profession  or	vocation" carried on by him, the  amount  bywhich  the written down value of any building, machinery  orplant  which  has  been sold, discarded	 or  demolished.  ordestroyed  exceeds  the	 amount	 for  which  the   building,machinery or plant is actually sold or its scrap value is tobe  allowed  as	 a deduction.	This  allowance	 is  howeversubject to an exception prescribed by the second proviso  toel.  (vii)  sub-s. (2) of s. 10 that where  the	 amount	 forwhich  any building, machinery or plant is sold exceeds	 thewritten down value, so much of the63498excess	as  does  not  exceed  the  difference	between	 theoriginal cost and the written down value shall be deemed  tobe profit of the previous year in which the sale took place.In  computing the profits and gains of the Company under  s.10  of	the Act, for the purpose of  assessing	the  taxableincome, the difference between the written down value of themachinery  in the year of account and the price at which  itwas  sold  (the price not being in excess  of  the  originalcost) was to be deemed to be profit in the year of  account,and  being such profit, it was liable to be included in	 theassessable  income in the year of assessment.  But  this  isthe  result  of a fiction introduced by the  Act.   What  intruth  is a capital return is by a fiction regarded for	 thepurposes  of  the Act as income.   Because  this  differencebetween	 the price realized and the written. down  value  ismade chargeable to income tax, its character is not altered,and  it	 is  not  converted  into  the	assessee's  businessprofits.  It does not reach the assessee as his profits:  itreaches	 him  as part of the capital invested  by  him,	 thefiction	  created   by	 s.   10(2)(vii)   second    provisonotwithstanding.   The reason for introducing  this  fictionappears	 to  be this.  Where in the previous years,  by	 thedepreciation  allowance, the taxable income is	reduced	 forthose  years  and ultimately the asset fetches	on  sale  anamount exceeding the written down value, i.e., the  originalcost  less depreciation allowance, the Revenue is  justifiedin  taking  back what it had allowed in	 recoupment  againstwear  and  tear, because in fact the  depreciation  did	 notresult.	 But the reason of the rule does not alter the	realcharacter  of  the receipt.  Again, it	is  the	 accumulateddepreciation  over  a number of years which is	regarded  asincome	of  the	 year  in which	 the  asset  is	 sold.	 Thedifference  between the written down value of an  asset	 andthe price realized by sale thereof though not profit  earnedin the conduct of the business of the assessee is nationallyregarded  as profit in the year in which the asset is  sold,for the purpose of taking back what had been allowed in	 theearlier years.A company normally distributes dividends out of its businessprofits and not out of its assessable income.499There is no definable relation between the assessable incomeand the profits of a business concern in a commercial sense.Computation  of income for purposes of assessment of  incometax is based on a variety of artificial rules and takes intoaccount	  several   fictional	receipts,   deductions	 andallowances.  In considering whether a larger distribution ofdividend  would be unreasonable, the source from  which	 thedividend is to be distributed and not the assessable  incomehas  to	 be  taken into account.  The  Legislature  has	 notprovided  in  s. 23A that in considering  whether  an  orderdirecting that the undistributed profits shall be deemed  tobe distributed, the smallness of the assessable income shallbe  taken  into	 account.   The test  whether  it  would  beunreasonable  to  distribute  a larger dividend	 has  to  beadjudged in the light of the profit of the year in question.Even though the assessable income of a company may be large,the  commercial	 profits  may be so  small  that  compellingdistribution  of the difference between the balance  of	 theassessable  income  reduced  by the taxes  payable  and	 theamount distributed as dividend would require the company  tofall back either upon its reserves or upon its capital whichin law it cannot do.  For instance, in the case of companiesreceiving  income from property, even though tax  is  leviedunder  s. 9 of the Act on the bona fide annual value of	 theproperty, the actual receipts may be considerably less	thanthe  annual value and if the test of reasonableness  is	 theextent	of  the	 assessable income and	not  the  commercialprofit, there may frequently arise cases in which  companiesmay  have  to sell off their income producing  assets.	 TheLegislature has deliberately used the expression  "smallnessof  profit"  and not "smallness of  assessable	income"	 andthere  is  nothing in the context in  which  the  expression"smallness of profit" occurs which justifies equation of theexpression "profit" with "assessable income".  Smallness  ofthe  profit  in s. 23A has to be adjudged in  the  light  ofcommercial  principles	and  not  in  the  light  of   totalreceipts,  actual or fictional.	 This view appears  to	havebeen  taken  by	 the  High  Courts  in	India  without	 anydissentient500opinion, see Sir Kasturchand Ltd. v. Commissioner of  IncomeTax,  Bombay  City  (1), Ezra Proprietary  Estates  Ltd.  v.Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal (2) and Commissionerof  income Tax, Bombay City  v. F. L. Smith & Co.,  (Bombay)Ltd. (3).By the fiction in s. 10(2)(vii) second proviso, read with s.2(6C),	what  is really not income is, for  the	 purpose  ofcomputation  of assessable income, made taxable income:	 buton  that account, it does not become commercial profit,	 andif it is not commercial profit, it is not liable to be takeninto  account in assessing whether in view of the  smallnessof profits a larger dividend would be unreasonable.  In	 ourjudgment,  the	High  Court was right in  holding  that	 theamount of Rs. 15,608 was not liable to be taken into accountin considering whether having regard to the smallness of theprofit	made  by the Company, it would	be  unreasonable  todeclare a larger dividend.The appeal therefore fails and is dismissed with costs.				      Appeal dismissed.(1) (1940) XVII I.T.R. 493.(2) (1950) XVIII I.T.R. 762.(3) (1959) XXXV I.T.R. 183.501