PETITIONER:C.   K. ACHUTHAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF KERALA AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:11/12/1958BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  490		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 787 CITATOR INFO : E&R	    1974 SC 651	 (9) RF	    1977 SC1496	 (20) E&R	    1978 SC 930	 (16) E	    1979 SC1628	 (23) RF	    1986 SC1527	 (22)ACT:       Fundamental  Rights, Infringement of-Contract for supply	 of       goods  to  Government-Whether  a	 contract  of	employment-       Cancellation  of	 contract  and	grant  to   another-Whether       discriminatory-Constitution  of	India,	Arts.  14,   16(1),       19(1)(g), 31.HEADNOTE:For  the  supply  of  milk to  the  Government	Hospital  atCannanore for the year 1948-49, the petitioner and the thirdrespondent,   the   Co-operative  Milk	 Supplies   Society,Cannanore, had submitted tenders, and the Superintendent whoscrutinised  them  accepted  that  of  the  petitioner	 andcommunicated  to the Director of Public Health	the  reasonsfor  the  decision.   Subsequently,  the  contract  to	 thepetitioner  was cancelled after giving the requisite  noticein  terms of Cl. 20 Of the tender, and he was informed	thatit  was the policy of the Government that in the  matter  ofsupply	to  Government	medical	 institutions  in  CannanoreDistrict,  the	Co-operative Milk Supplies Union was  to  begiven contracts on the basis of prices fixed by the  RevenueDepartment.   The petitioner contended, in a petition  filedunder  Art.  32	 Of the Constitution, that  there  had	beendiscrimination	against him vis-a-vis the third	 respondent,that he was denied equal opportunity of employment under theState,	and  that  the fundamental rights  under  Arts.	 14,16(1), 19(1) (g) and 31 had been infringed.Held,  that none of the fundamental rights were involved  inthe present case.A  contract  which  is held from  Government  stands  on  nodifferent footing from a contract held from a private  partyand  when  one	person is chosen  rather  than	another	 theaggrieved party cannot claim the protection of Art. 14.A  contract  for the supply of goods is not  a	contract  ofemployment and the petitioner who was supplying milk to	 theState hospital was in no sense a servant and no question  ofemployment qua servant arose.  Article 16 (1) was  thereforenot attracted to the case.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 103 of 1958.Petition  under Art. 32 of the Constitution for	 enforcementof fundamental rights.M.  T. Paikeday and Ganpat Rai, for the petitioner.Sardar Bahadur, for respondent No. 1.M.   R. Krishna Pillai, for respondent No. 3. 7881958.  December 11.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyHIDAYATULLAH,  J.-This	is a petition under Art. 32  of	 theConstitution by one C. K. Achuthan, who claims to have	helda contract for the supply of milk and other articles of dietfor the year 1958-1959 but whose contract for supply of milkis  said  to  have been cancelled by  the  District  MedicalOfficer	 (second respondent herein).  The contract for	the.supply	of milk has now been given to the third	 respondent,the Co-operative Milk Supplies Society, Cannanore.From  the  petition,  it appears that  the  petitioner	heldcontracts for the supply of milk to the Government  Hospitalat  Cannanore  (Kerala	State) ever  since  1946,  and	thatprevious  to  this, his brother in the	same  business	heldsimilar contracts from 1936.In 1957, a " uniform procedure for fixing up contracts " wasadopted, and by a notification, conditions for acceptance oftender were laid down.	The petitioner as well as the  thirdrespondent submitted their respective tenders, which were tobe  opened  by	the Superintendent of the  Hospital  in	 thepresence  of interested parties.  We need not refer  to	 allthe  conditions	 under which tenders were  to  be  accepted,except those which have a bearing upon this matter.  It	 wasstated in the conditions that no tender marked at "  currentmarket	rates " would be accepted, and further that  in	 thesupply	of milk, preference would be given to  approved	 Co-operative Milk Supply Unions and Societies, if their  tenderwas  within a margin of 5 per cent. over the market rate  orthe  lowest tendered rate, whichever was less.	All  personsmaking tender for the contract had to produce a	 certificateof  solvency and tax clearance certificates, and to  make  adeposit with the tender.On  January 20, 1958, the tenders which were submitted	werescrutinised and the tender of the petitioner for the  supplyof  milk  was  accepted and that  of  the  third  respondentrejected.   It appears that the	 Superintendent	 (respondentNo.  2) communicated to the Director of Public	Health,	 herreasons	 for accepting the tender of the petitioner and	 notaccepting that		       789of the third respondent.  Certain correspondence then ensuedbetween	 the  Director	of Health Services  and	 the  secondrespondent, as a result of which the petitioner was informedthat  the contract for the supply of milk given to  him	 wascancelled.   He	 was  informed that it	was  the  policy  ofGovernment  that  in  the matter  of  supply  to  Governmentmedical institutions in Cannanore District the	Co-operativeMilk  Supplies Union was to be given contracts on the  basisof prices fixed by the Revenue Department.  It appears	thatsome  more  correspondence between the	Director  of  HealthServices  and  the  second respondent  ensued,	and  it	 waspointed out to the second respondent that action should havebeen taken under Cl. 20 of the conditions of the tender	 andthe contract only cancelled after giving a month's notice tothe  petitioner.  In furtherance of these instructions,	 thesecond respondent issued a notice in terms of Cl. 20 of	 thetender, and cancelled the contract after the notice period.The present petition has been filed to question the  severalorders	referred  to  above.  It may  be  pointed  out	thatprevious to this, the petitioner had applied under Art.	 226of  the	 Constitution to the High Court of Kerala,  but	 hispetition  (O.	P. No. 201 of 1958) was	 rejected  by  RamanNayar,	J.,  on June 6, 1958.  A Letters Patent	 Appeal	 wasalso dismissed by Koshi, C. J., and Vaidialingam, J. (A.  S.No.  354 of 1958 decided on July 7, 1958).  The	 High  Courtheld  that the present matter was no more than a breach,  ifany,  of the contract by the State Government, and that	 theappropriate remedy was to file a civil suit and not toproceed under Art. 226.It appears that -no special leave to appeal was sought	fromthis Court against the above orders, and the matter has beenbrought for adjudication, not by way of appeal but  directlyunder Art. 32 of the Constitution as an infringement of	 thefundamental right of the petitioner.  The contention of	 thepetitioner in this behalf is that he is entitled to an equaltreatment  in  the  eye	 of law, and  that  there  has	beendiscrimination against him vis-a-vis, the third	 respondent.He claims protection under Arts. 14, 16(1), 19(1)(g) and79031  of	the  Constitution.  In our opinion,  none  of  theseArticles can be made applicable to the facts of the  presentcase.No  doubt,  the	 petitioner  claims  to	 have  succeeded  inobtaining  the contract from the Government, and  the  thirdrespondent  failed  to	do  so.	 But even  if  he  held	 thecontract,  the petitioner did not acquire an absolute  rightto be continued in that contract, because power was reservedby  the	 Government under Cl. 20 to terminate  the  contractafter giving a month's notice.	Whether the exercise of thatpower  in  the present case was regular or legal, is  not  amatter	on  which we are called upon to	 pronounce,  becauseadjudication  of such dispute can appropriately	 take  placeonly before the ordinary Civil Courts, where evidence can begone into and examined at length.The gist of the present matter is the breach, if any, of thecontract said to have been given to the petitioner which hasbeen cancelled either for good or for bad reasons.  There isno  discrimination,  because  it is perfectly  open  to	 theGovernment,  even as it is to a private party, to  choose  aperson to their liking, to fulfill contracts which they wishto  be	performed.  When one person is	chosen	rather	thananother, the aggrieved party cannot claim the protection  ofArt.  14,  because  the choice of the person  to  fulfill  aparticular   contract  must  be	 left  to  the	 Government.Similarly,  a contract which is held from Government  standson no different footing from a contract held from a  privateparty.	The breach of the contract, if any, may entitle	 theperson aggrieved to sue for damages or in appropriate cases,even specific performance, but he cannot complain that therehas  been  a  deprivation  of  the  right  to  practise	 anyprofession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business,such  as is contemplated by Art. 19(1)(g).  Nor has it	beenshown  how  Art. 31 of the Constitution may  be	 invoked  toprevent	 cancellation  of a contract in exercise  of  powersconferred by one of the terms of the contract itself.The  main  contention of the petitioner before us  was	thusunder  Art. 16(1) of the Constitution, and he claimed  equalopportunity of employment under the      791State. To begin with, a contract for the supply of goods  isnot a contract of employment in the sense in which that wordhas been used in the Article.The  petitioner wag not to	 beemployed  as  a	 servant  to fetch milk	 on  behalf  of	 theinstitution, but was a contractor for supplying the articleson  payment  of	 price.	 He claimed to	have  been  given  acontract  for  supply of milk, and did not claim  to  be  anemployee of the State.	Article 16(1) of the  Constitution-,both  in  its  terms and in the collocation  of	 the  words,indicates  that	 it  is confined to " employment  "  by	 theState,	and  has reference to employment in  service  ratherthan as contractors.  Of course, there may be cases in whichthe  contract  may  include  within  itself  an	 element  ofservice.  In the present case, however, such a considerationdoes not arise, and it is therefore not necessary for us  toexamine whether those cases are covered by the said Article.But  it is clear that every person whose offer to perform  acontract  of  supply is refused or whose contract  for	suchsupply is breached cannot be said to have been denied  equalopportunity  of	 employment, and it is to this	matter	thatthis case is confined.Looking	 to the facts of the case, it is manifest  that	 thepetitioner  was supplying, or in other words,  selling	milkand  other  articles  of diet to the State for	the  use  ofhospitals  and similar institutions.  He was in no  sense  aservant,  and no question of employment qua  servant  arose.In  these circumstances, it is plain that Art. 16(1) of	 theConstitution is not attracted to the facts.In   our  opinion,  the	 petition  under  Art.	32  of	 theConstitution  is wholly misconceived.  No fundamental  rightis  involved.  At best, it is a right to take the matter  tothe  Civil  Court, if so advised, and to claim	damages	 forbreach of contract, if any.The petition accordingly fails, and is dismissed with costs.			Petition dismissed.792