PETITIONER:HAMDARD DAWAKHANA (WAKF) LAL KUAN,DELHI AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:18/12/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERWANCHOO, K.N.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  554		  1960 SCR  (2) 671 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC   4	 (15) D	    1962 SC 305	 (43) D	    1962 SC 562	 (7) R	    1962 SC1006	 (70) R	    1962 SC1263	 (10) R	    1964 SC 925	 (35,67) R	    1964 SC 980	 (9) RF	    1967 SC   1	 (138) RF	    1967 SC 212	 (26) RF	    1967 SC1048	 (20) RF	    1968 SC1232	 (17,53) E	    1973 SC 106	 (28,35,36,66,127) R	    1978 SC 597	 (189,202) RF	    1983 SC1155	 (20) E	    1986 SC 515	 (90) R	    1990 SC 560	 (13) RF	    1991 SC 672	 (33)ACT:Advertisement,	Control	 of-Advertisement, when	 relates  tofreedom	 of  speech-Statute  prohibiting  advertisements  ofdrugs  for  certain  diseases-Constitutionality	  of-Whethercurtails freedom of speech-Conferment of power on  executiveto  add	 to diseases falling within mischief  of  statute-Ifamounts	  to   delegation   of	 legislative   power-Statuteempowering  executive to seize offending  articles,  withoutproviding     safeguards-Whether     imposes	  reasonablerestrictions-Constitution   of	 India,	  Arts.	   19(1)(a),19(1)(g), 19(1)(f) and 19(6).  The Drugs and Magic  Remedies(Objectionable	Advertisements) Act, 1954 (21 of 1954),	 ss.2(a), 3(d), 8 and 14(c).HEADNOTE:When  an enactment is challenged on the ground of  violationof fundamental rights it is necessary to ascertain its	truenature and character, i.e., its subject matter, the area  inwhich it is intended to operate, its purport and intent.  Inorder  to do so it is legitimate to take into  considerationall the factors such as the history of the legislation,	 thepurpose	  thereof,   the   surrounding	 circumstances	 andconditions,  the  mischief intended to	be  suppressed,	 theremedy	proposed by the legislature and the true reason	 forthe remedy.  Initially, there is a presumption in favour  ofthe constitutionality of an enactment.Bengal Immunity Company Ltd. v. The State of Bihar, [1955] 2S.C.R. 603, R. M. D. Chamarbaughwala v. The Union of  India,[1957]	S.C.R 930, Mahant Moti Das & Others v. S.  P.  Saki,A.I.R.	1959 S.C. 942, Charanjit Lal Chowdhuri v. The  Unionof India & Others, [1950] S.C.R. 869 and The State of Bombayv. F. N. Bulsara, [1951] S.C.R. 682, referred to.On examining the history of the legislation, the surroundingcircumstances  and the scheme of the Act it was	 clear	thatthe  object of the Drugs and Magic  Remedies  (ObjectionableAdvertisement)	Act,  1954,  was  the  prevention  of  self-medication  and	 self-treatment by  prohibiting	 instrumentswhich  may be used to advocate the same or which  tended  tospread the evil.  Its object was not merely the stopping  ofadvertisements offending against morality and decency.Advertisement  is  no doubt a form of speech, but  its	truecharacter  is reflected by the object for the  promotion  ofwhich  it is employed.	It is only when an advertisement  isconcerned  with the expression or propagation of ideas	thatit  can	 be  said to relate to freedom of  speech.   But  itcannot be said that the right672to   publish   and  distribute	 commercial   advertisementsadvertising  an individual's personal business is a part  ofthe  freedom of speech guaranteed by the Constitution.	 Theprovisions  of	the  Act  which	 prohibited   advertisementscommending the efficacy, value	 and   importance   in	 thetreatment  of  particular  diseases  of	 certain  drugs	 andmedicines did not fall under Art.	     19(1)(a) of theConstitution.	The  scope and object of the  Act  its	truenature and character was not interference with the right  offreedom	 of  speech but it dealt with  trade  and  business.Lewis J. Valentine v. F. J. Chrestensen, 86 Law.  Ed.  1262;R.  M.	D.  Chamarbaughwala v. The Union  of  India,  [1957]S.C.R.	930,  State of Bombay v. R. M.	D.  Chamarbaughwala,[1957]	S.C.R.	874;  John  W. Rast v.	Van  Deman  &  LewisCompany,  60  Law.   Ed.  679, Alice  Lee  Grosjean  v.	 TheAmerican Press Co., 80 Law.  Ed. 660, Express Newspapers (P)Ltd. v. The Union of India, [1959] S.C.R. 12 and J. M.	Nearv. State of Minnesota, 75 Law.	Ed. 1357, referred to.The definition of " advertisement " which included labels oncartons and bottles and instructions inside cartons was	 nottoo  wide  in  view  of	 the object  of	 the  Act.   If	 thedefinition  was not so broad and inclusive it  would  defeatthe  very  purpose  for	 which the  Act	 was  brought  into'existence.  The use of the word " suggest " in s. 3 did	 notsupport	 the  contention that the restraint placed  by	thatsection	 was disproportionate.	The provisions Of  S.  14(c)and  r. 6 which allowed the prohibited advertisements to  besent confidentially by post to a registered medical  practi-tioner, to a wholesale or retail chemist, to a hospital or alaboratory  only  when	the  words "  for-the  use  only  ofregistered   medical  practitioners  or	 a  hospital  or   alaboratory  "  had been inscribed on the  outside  of  everypacket containing the advertisement did not impose excessiverestraint.  The provisions of the Act were in the  interestsof the general public and placed reasonable restrictions  onthe trade and business of the petitioners and were saved  byArt. 19(6).Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1950]  S.C.R.759  and  Dwarka  Das Srinivas of  Bombay  v.  The  SholapurSpinning  &  Weaving  Company Limited,	[1954]	S.C.R.	674,referred to.The  words " or any other disease or condition which may  bespecified  in the rules made under this Act " in cl. (d)  OfS.  3 which empowered the Central Government to add  to	 thediseases  falling  within  the mischief Of  s.	3  conferreduncanalised and uncontrolled power on the executive and wereultra vires.  The legislature had established no criteria orstandards  and had not prescribed any principle on  which  aparticular  disease or condition was to be specified.  As  aconsequence  the  Schedule to the rules	 also  become  ultravires.	But the striking down of the impugned words did	 notaffect	the validity of the rest of cl. (d) or of the  otherclauses of S. 3 as these words were severable.673The first part of s. 8 which empowered any person authorisedby  the State Government in this behalf to seize and  detainany document, article or thing which such person had  reasonto  believe  contained any  advertisement  contravening	 theprovisions of the Act imposed an unreasonable restriction onthe   fundamental   rights  of	the  petitioners   and	 wasunconstitutional.  This portion of s. 8 went far beyond	 thepurpose for which the Act was enacted and failed to  provideproper safeguards in regard to the exercise of the power  ofseizure	  and  detention  as  had  been	 provided   by	 thelegislature in other statutes.	If this portion was  excisedfrom  the  section the remaining portion would	be  unintel-ligible and could not be upheld.By a portion of cl. (d) of s. 3 and the whole of s. 8  beingdeclared  unconstitutional, the operation of  the  remainingportion	 of  the  Act  remained	 unimpaired  as	 these	wereseverable.R.   M.	 D. Chamarbaughwala v. Union of India [1957]  S.C.R.930, referred to.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition Nos. 81, 62, 63 & 3 of 1959.Petition  under	 Art. 32 of the Constitution  of  India	 forenforcement of Fundamental rights.K.   M. Munshi, N. C. Chatterjee, L. R. Das Gupta, G.	  K.Munshi,	 D.  N.	 Mukherjee and R.  Gopalakrishnan,  for	 thepetitioners.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. N.  Sanyal,Additional Solicitor-General of India, B. R. L. Iyengar,  R.H.  Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for respondents Nos.	1 to 10	 (inPetn.  No. 81 of 59), Nos.  1 to 3 (in Petn.  No. 62 of 59),No. 1 (in Petns.  Nos. 63 and 3 of 59)	and Nos. 2 and 3 (inPetn.  No. 3 of 59).G.N. Dikshit and C. P. Lal, for respondent No. 11 (in  Petn.No. 81 of 59) and No. 2 (in Petn.  No. 63 of 59).R. Gopalakrishnan, for the intervener.1959.  December 18.  The Judgment of the court was deliveredbyKAPUR, J.-These petitions under Art. 32 of the	Constitutionraise the question of the constitutionality of the Drug	 andMagic  Remedies	 (Objectionable Advertisement) Act  (XXI  of1954) hereinafter referred to as the Act.  As the  petitionsraise  a  common question of law they  may  conveniently  bedisposed of by one judgment.86674The  allegation of the petitioners was that various  actionshad  been taken against them by the respond  which  violatedtheir fundamental rights under	 Art.  19(1)(a) and 19(1)(f)& (g).	They also challenged   the Act because it contrvenedthe provisions of Art. 14  and Arts. 21 and 31.The  Act passed on April 30, 1954, came into force on  April1, 1955, along with the rules made thereunder.	As  providedin its preamble it was"An  Act  to control the advertisement of drugs	 in  certaincases, to prohibit the advertisement for certain purposes ofremedies  alleged to possess magic qualities and to  providefor matters connected therewith."The petitioners in Writ Petition No. 81 of 1959, the HamdardDawakhana  (Wakf) and another, alleged that soon  after	 theAct  came  into	 force they experienced	 difficulty  in	 thematter	 of  publicity	for  their  products   and   variousobjections were raised by the authorities in regard to theiradvertisements.	 On December 4, 1958, the Drugs	 Controller,Delhi,	intimated to the petitioners that the provisions  ofs. 3 of the Act had been contravened by them and called uponthem  to  recall  their products sent to  Bombay  and  otherStates.	 As a result of this, correspondence ensued  betweenthe  petitioners and the authorities.  On December 4,  1958,the Drugs Controller, Delhi State, stopped the sale of fortyof  their products set out in the  petition.   Subsequently,objection   was	 taken	by  the	 Drugs	Controller  to	 theadvertisements	 in  regard  to	 other	 drugs.	   Similarlyobjections  were  taken by the Drugs  Controllers  of  otherStates to various advertisements in regard to medicines	 anddrugs prepared by the petitioners.  They submitted that	 thevarious advertisements which had been objected to were	pre-pared in accordance with the Unani system and the drugs boreUnani  nomenclature which had been recognised in  the  wholeworld  for several centuries past.  The Act is	assailed  onthe  ground  of	 discrimination	 under	Art.  14,  excessivedelegation  and	 infringement of the right  of	free  speechunder  Art. 19(1)(a) and their right to carry on  trade	 andbusiness under     675Art. 19(1)(f) & (g). Objection is also taken under Arts.  21and 31. The petitioners therefore prayed for  a	 declarationthat the Act and the Rules made there under were ultra viresand  void as violative of Part III of the  Constitution	 andfor  the issuing of a writ of Mandamus and  Prohibition	 andfor  quashing the proceedings and the notices issued by	 thevarious authorities-the respondents.In their counter affidavit the respondents submitted   thatthe  method  and  manner of advertisement of  drugs  by	 thepetitioners and others clearly indicated the necessity	  ofhaving an Act like the impugned Act and its	    rigorousenforcement. The allegations in regard to discrimination andimpairment of fundamental rights under Art. 19(1)(a), (f)  &(g) and any infringement of Arts. 21 and 31 were denied	 andit was stated :-"  The restriction is about the advertisement to the  peoplein  general. I say that the main object and purpose  of	 theAct is to prevent people from self medicating with regard tovarious	 serious  diseases. Self-medication  in	 respect  ofdiseases  of  serious nature mentioned in the  Act  and	 theRules  has  a  deleterious  effect  on	the  health  of	 thecommunity  and	is likely to affect the	 well-being  of	 thepeople. Having thus found that some medicines have  tendencyto  induce people to resort to self-medication by reason  ofelated	advertisements,	 it  was thought  necessary  in	 theinterest  of  public  health  that the	puffing	 up  of	 theadvertisements	is  put	 to a complete check  and  that	 themanufacturers are compelled to route their products  throughrecognised   sources   so  that	 the   products	  of   thesemanufacturer  could  be	 put to valid and  proper  test	 andconsideration by expert agencies."It  was	 also  pleaded that the advertisements	were  of  anobjectionable  character and taking into  consideration	 themode and method of advertising conducted by the	 petitionersthe  implementation of the provisions of the  impugned	 Actwas  justified.	 Along	with  their  counter-affidavit	 therespondents have placed on record Ext.-A, which is a copy ofthe literature which676accompanied one of the various medicines put on sale by	 thepetitioners and/or was stated on the cartons in	  which	 themedicine was contained.	 In their affidavit in rejoinder thepetitioners reiterated that Unani and	Ayurvedic    systemshad been discriminated against; that self-medication had  nodeleterious  effect on the health of the community;  on	 thecontrary it-"  is likely to affect the well-being of the people, in	 thecontext	 of effective household and domestic remedies  basedon  local  herbs  popularly known to them  in  rural  areas.Self-medication	 has  its  permission  (?)  limits  even  inAmerica and Canada where unlicensed itinerant vendors  servethe people effectively."For  the petitioners in all the petitions Mr. Munshi  raisedfour points:(1)  Advertisement is a vehicle by means of which freedom ofspeech	guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(a) is exercised and	 therestrictions which are imposed by the Act are such that theyare not covered by cl. (2) of Art. 19 ;(2)That	 Act, the Rules made thereunder and the schedule  inthe rules impose arbitrary and excessive restrictions on therights guaranteed to the petitioners by Art. 19(1)(f) & (g);(3)  Section   3   of  the  Act	 surrenders   unguided	 anduncanalised  power to the executive to add to  the  diseasesenumerated in s. 3;(4)  Power  of	confiscation  under  s.	 8  of	the  Act  isviolative of the rights under Arts. 21 and 31 of theConstitution.In  Petitions  Nos. 62 and 63 of 1939 which  relate  to	 twobranches  of  Sadhana  Ausadhalaya at  Poona  and  Allahabadrespectively,  Mr.  N.	C.  Chatterjee,	 after	giving	 thepeculiar  facts	 of those petitions and the  fact  that	 thepetitioners'  Poona branch was raided without a	 warrant,  anumber	of medicines had been seized, and a complaint  filedagainst the petitioners in that petition, submitted that  s.3(b)  of  the Act was meant to strike down  abnormal  sexualactivities,   that  advertisements  in	that   case   merelymentioned  the names of the diseases and suggested the	drugfor the treatment677of  those  diseases,  that the prohibition  of	such  adver-tisements   was	  an  unreasonable  restriction	  on   theirfundamental right; that there was nothing indecent in sayingthat their medicine was a cure for a particular disease	 andthat  the  Act	was  an undue  interference  with  cure	 andtreatment of diseases.We  now	 proceed to consider the vitality of  the  argumentsraised	on  behalf  of	the  petitioners.   Firstly  it	 wassubmitted  that	 the  restriction on  advertisements  was  adirect	 abridgement  of  the  right  of  free	speech	 andadvertisements	could not be brought out of  the  guaranteedfreedom	 under Art. 19(1)(a) because no dividing line  couldbe  drawn  and freedom of speech could not be  curtailed  bymaking	it  subject  to any  other  activity.	The  learnedSolicitor-General  on the otherhand, contended that  it	 wasnecessary to examine the pith and substance of the  impugnedAct  and if it was properly considered it could not be	saidto  have  in  any way curtailed, abridged  or  impaired	 therights	guaranteed to the petitioners under  Art,  19(1)(a).He also contended that the prohibited advertisements did notfall  within the connotation of " freedom of speech  ".	 Thedoctrine  of pith and substance,, submitted Mr. Munshi,	 wascreated	 for  the  purpose of  determining  the	 legislativecompetence of a legislature to enact a law and he sought  toget  support from the following observation  of	 VenkataramaAiyar, J., in A. S. Krishna v. State of Madras (1) :-"...... and the Privy Council had time and again to pass  onthe  constitutionality	of  laws made by  the  Dominion	 andProvincial legislatures.  It was in this situation that	 thePrivy  Council	evolved	 the  doctrine,	 that  for  decidingwhether an impugned legislation was intra vires regard	mustbe had to its pith and substance.  "Though the doctrine of ' pith and substance' was evolved  todetermine the constitutionality of an enactment in referenceto the legislative competence of a legislature	particularlyunder  a federal constitution with a distributive system  ofpowers	it  has been used in other contexts in	some  cases,e.g., in connection(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 399,406,410.678with the determination of the constitutionality of  statutesrestricting    the    rights	to    carry    on    certainactivities and the consequent infringement of Art.  19(1)(g):  by Mahajan, C.J., in Cooverjee B. Bharucha v. The  ExciseCommissioner  & The Chief Commissioner of Ajmer (1)  in	 thecase of Excise Regulation of 1915  regulating  the   import,export,	 transport,  manufacture,  sale	 and  possession  ofintoxicating  drugs and liquor and imposing duties  thereon;by Das, C.J., in State of Bombay v. R. M. D.  Chamarbughwala(2)  in connection with a statute which was held not  to  beinterference with trade, commerce or intercourse as such butto save it from anti-social activities.It  is unnecessary to decide in the present case whether  inits   scope   it  extends  to  the  determination   of	 theconstitutionality  of  an enactment with  reference  to	 thevarious	  sub-clauses  of  cl.	(1)of  Art.  19.    A	moreappropriate  approach  to the question is, in  our  opinion,contained  in the dictum of Mahajan, J. (as he then was)  inM/s.   Dwarka  Prasad  Laxmi Narain v. The  State  of  UttarPradesh	 (3).	There  he held that "  in  order  to  decidewhether a particular legislative measure contravenes any  ofthe  provisions	 of  Part  III of  the	Constitution  it  isnecessary  to examine with some strictness the substance  ofthe legislation in order to decide what the legislature	 hasreally	done.  Of course the legislature cannot bypass	suchconstitutional prohibition by employing indirect methods andtherefore  the	Court  has  to	look  behind  the  form	 andappearance to discover the true character and nature of	 thelegislation.  "Therefore,  when the constitutionality of an  enactment	 is-,challenged  on	 the  ground  of violation  of	any  of	 thearticles in Part 111 of the Constitution, the  ascertainmentof  its true nature and character becomes  necessary,  i.e.,its  subject  matter, the area in which it  is	intended  tooperate,  its purport and intent have to be determined.	  Inorder  to do so it is legitimate to take into  considerationall  the  factors such as history of  the  legislation,	 thepurpose thereof, the(1) [1954] S.C.R. 873, 877.  (2) [1957] S.C.R. 874.(3) [1954] S.C.R. 674, 682.679surrounding circumstances and conditions, the mischief whichit  intended to suppress, the remedy for the  disease  whichthe  legislature resolved to cure  and the  true  reason forthe  remedy;  Bengal Immunity Company Ltd. v. The  State  ofBihar (1); R.M.D. Chamarbaughwala v. The Union of India	 (2)Mahant Moti Das & Ors. v. S. P. Sahi ( 3).Another	 principle which has to borne in mind  in  examiningthe  constitutionality	of  a statute is  that	it  must  beassumed that the legislature understands and appreciates theneed  of the people and the laws it enacts are	directed  toproblems which are made manifest by experience and that	 theelected	 representatives  assembled in a  legislature  enactlaws  which they consider to be reasonable for	the  purposefor  which they are enacted.  Presumption is, therefore,  infavour	of the constitutionality of an enactment.  CharanjitLal Chowdhuri v. The Union of India & Ors.(4); The State  ofBombay	v. F.N. Bulsara (5); Mahant Moti Das v. S.  P.	Sahi(3).What  then was the history behind the  impugned	 legislationand  what was the material before the Parliament upon  whichit set to enact the impugned Act.(1)  In	 1927  a resolution was adopted by then	 Council  ofState recommending to the Central and Provincial Governmentsto take immediate measures to control the indiscriminate useof medical drugs and for standardisation of the	 preparationand for the sale of such drugs.	 In August 1930, in responseto  the	 public opinion on the subject and in  pursuance  ofthat resolution the Government of India appointed the  DrugsEnquiry	 Committee with Sir R. N. Chopra as its Chairman  toenquire into the extent of the quality and strength of drugsimported,  manufactured	 or sold in India and  to  recommendsteps for controlling such imports, manufacture and sale  inthe  interest of the public.  This Committee made  a  reportpointing  out  the  necessity  of  exercising  control	overimport,(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603, 632 & 633.(2)  [1957] S.C.R. 930, 936.(3)  A.I.R. (1959) S.C. 942, 948.(4)  [1950] S.C.R. 869,(5) [1951] S.C.R. 682, 708.680manufacture and sale of patent and proprietary medicines  inthe interest of the safety of the public and public  health.The  report  pointed out in paragraph 256-259 how  in  othercountries  control  was exercised and  restrictive  laws  toachieve that end had been     enacted.	 In the Appendix  tothis  Report  was  given a list of a number  of	 samples  ofadvertisements	of patent and proprietary medicines  dealingwith cures of all kinds of diseases.(2)  As	 a result of the Chopra Committee Report the  `Drugsact, was passed in 1940.(3)In  1948  The  Pharmacy Act was passed  to  regulate	 theprovisions of pharmacy.	 As a result of these two enactmentsthe  State  Governments	 were given  the  responsibility  ofcontrolling the manufacture of drugs and pharmaceuticals andtheir  sales  through qualified personnel  and	the  CentralGovernment  was	 given the control on quality of  drugs	 andpharmaceuticals imported into the country.(4)The Chopra Committee Report dealt with the popularity  ofthe patent and proprietary medicines in the following words: "The	pride  of  place  must	be  accorded  to   ingeniouspropaganda  clever  and attractive  dissemination  of  theirsupposed virtues and wide and alluring advertisements.	 Thecredulity  and	gullibility of the masses,  especially	when'certain  cures' are assured in utterly hopeless cases,	 canwell  be imagined.  Perusal of the advertisements of  cures'produces a great effect on patients who have tried treatmentby medical men without success.	 Such patients resort to anyand every drug that comes in their way.	 In an infinitesimalsmall  number of cases spontaneous cures are also  effected.Widest	publicity  is given to these  and  the	preparationsbecome	invested with miraculous virtues.  The	reassurancesof cure, the force of argument advanced to guarantee it	 andthe  certificates of persons said to have been	cured  whichare  all set out in advertisements make a  deep	 impression,especially  on those with weak nerves.	The love of  mysteryand   secrecy	inherent  in  human  nature,   the   naturaldisinclination and681shyness	 to  disclose details of  one's	 illness  especiallythose involving moral turpitude, the peculiar temperament ofthe  people  who,  high	 and  low,  rich  and  poor,  demand'something  in a bottle' for the treatment of every  ailmentand  poverty  of  the people who cannot afford	to  pay	 thedoctor's  bills	 or the high prices  current  for  dispensedmedicines,' have all been enlarged upon as tending to  self-diagnosis  and	self-medication by  patent  and	 proprietarymedicines."(5)Evidence was led before the Chopra Committee	 deprecatingthe  increasing sale of proprietary  medicines	particularlythose  with  secret formulae as such drugs  were  positivelyharmful	 and  were a serious and increasing  menace.   Therewere advertisements and pamphlets issued in connection	withthese  medicines  which	 showed	 fraudulent  practices	 andextravagant claims for these medicines.(6)The	 Chopra	  Committee   Report   had   also   made   arecommendation	 for  a	 strict	 measure  of  control	overproprietary medicines.(7)  The  Bhatia  Committee  was set up in  pursuance  to  aresolution  No.	 CI-1(12)/52 dated February  14,  1953,	 andbetween March 1953, and end of that year it examined a largenumber of witnesses in different towns of India some of whomrepresented  chemists  and  druggists,	some  were   leadingmedical	 practitioners	and some were  State  Ministers	 forHealth.	  The  Bhatia Committee issued	a  Questionnaire  tovarious organisations and witnesses.  It contained questionsin regard to advertisement of drugs and therefore one of theobjects	 of  this  Committee which was	inaugurated  by	 theHealth Minister on March 12, 1953, was amongst other  thingsto look into the control to be exercised over  objectionableand unethical advertisements.(8)  There   were   a	large	number	 of    objectionableadvertisements	in the Press in regard to  patent  medicineswhich were after the Act came into force pointed out by	 thePress Commission Report but it cannot be said that this factwas unknown to Parliament as this Committee also examined  anumber of witnesses.87682(9)  The  Indian Medical Association had suggested  to	thisPress	 Committee    which   was    presided	 over	  bythe   late   Mr.  Justice  Rajadhyaksha	  the	barring	  ofadvertisements of medicines which claim to cure or alleviateany of the following diseases:Cancer,	  Bright's  disease, Cataract,	Diabetes,  Epilepsy,Glaucoma, Locomotor ataxia, Paralysis, Tuberculosis.(10)  In  the  United Kingdom, advertisements  of  drugs  ortreatment for these diseases are governed by the Cancer	 Actof  1939  and  the Pharmacy and Medi.  cines  Act  of  1941.(Advertisement	 relating  to  the  treatment  of   venerealdiseases are governed by the Venereal Diseases Act of 1917).(11) Wyndham  E.B.  Lloyd  in his book '  Hundred  years  ofmedicine'  published  in 1936 wrote  about  the	 outstandingevils  which  arise  from the use  of  secret  remedies	 andnostrums.   It	also  drew  attention  to  the	dangers	  ofadvertisements	in  regard  to them  and  what	the  BritishMedical Association had said about them.(12)The	 British Medical Association had in a book  entitled'Secret	 Remedies  What	 they  cost  and  contain'   exposedruthlessly  the	 harmful  effects  of  such  remedies.	 Thecouncil	 on  Pharmacy  and  Chemistry  of  American  MedicalAssociation  had  also	given its  opinion  on	the  harmfuleffects of indiscriminate self-medication by the public	 andthe  grave  danger which ensued from  such  misdirected	 andinadequate   treatment,	  and  the  failure   to   recogniseseriousness of the disease only when it was too late.It  is not necessary to refer to the recommendations of	 theBhatia Committee or the Press Enquiry Committee because theywere published in June and July 1954 respectively.In  England as far back as 1889, an Act called the  IndecentAdvertisements	Act (52 and 53 Viet.  Ch. 18) was passed  tosuppress  indecent  advertisements in  which  advertisementsrelating to syphilis, gonorrhoea, nervous debility or  othercomplaints   or	 infirmity  arising  from  intercourse	 wasprohibited.  In 1917 the Venereal Diseases Act (7 and 8 Geo.V  Ch. 21) was passed in England.  This placed	restrictionson683advertisements relating to treatment for venereal  diseases.In  1941, The Pharmacy and Medicine Act, 1941 (4 and 5	Geo.VI  Ch.	 42)  was passed which corres-	  ponds	 in materialparticulars  to	 the impugned Act.  It cannot be  said	thatthere  was  no material before Parliament on  the  basis  ofwhich it proceeded to enact the impugned legislation.	Thismaterial   shows  the  bistory	of  the	  legislation,	 theascertained evil intended to be cured and the  circumstancesin  which  the enactment was passed.  In  Shri	Ram  KrishnaDalmia	v.  Shri  Justice S. R. Tendolkar  (1),	 Das,  C.J.,observed :-"  that	 in  order  to	sustain	 the  presumption  of	con-stitutionality the court may take into consideration mattersof common knowledge, the history of the times and may assumeevery state of facts which can be conceived existing at	 thetime  of legislation;"Thus it is open to the court for the  purpose of determiningthe  constitutionality	of the Act to take all	these  factsinto  consideration  and in the present case  we  find	thatthere  was the evil of self-medication, which both  in	thiscountry	 and in other countries, the medical profession	 andthose, who were conversant with its dangers, had brought  tothe  notice  of the people at large and	 the  Government  inparticular.   They  had also warned against the	 dangers  ofself-medication	  and  of  the	consequences  of   unethicaladvertisement	 relating    to	   proprietary	   medicinesparticularising those diseases which were more likely to  beaffected by the evil.  There is reason, therefore, for us toassume	that the state of facts existed at the time  of	 thelegislation which necessitated the Act.	 These facts we havealready set out and it is not necessary to reiterate them.With  this  background	in view we proceed  to	examine	 theprovisions of the Act and ascertain the predominant purpose,true intent, scope and the object of the Act.  The  preambleshows  that  the  object  of the  Act  was  to	control	 theadvertisement of drugs in certain cases, i.e., diseases	 andto  prohibit advertisements relating to remedies  pretendingto  have  magic	 qualities and	provide	 for  other  mattersconnected therewith,(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 279, 297.684The title of the Act also shows that it is directed  againstobjectionable	   advertisements.	 The	  definitionsection (s. 2) in cl. (a) defines advertisements and in	 cl.(b) drugs which include (i) medicines for use of       humanbeings	and animals, (ii) substances for use  of  diagnosis,treatment  or  prevention of diseases in  human	 beings	 andanimals,  (iii) articles other than food which-	 affect	 theorganic functions of the body of human beings or animals and(iv)  articles	intended  for  use as  a  component  of	 anymedicine  etc., cl. (c) defines magic remedies to include  atalisman,  mantra, kavacha and other charms and (d)  relatesto  the	 publication  of any advertisement and	(e)  what  avenereal  disease is.  Section 3 prohibits advertisement  ofdrugs  for treatment of diseases and disorders.	 Clause	 (a)of  s. 3 deals with procurement of miscarriage in women	 forprevention  of	conception;  cl.  (b)  with  maintenance  orimprovement of capacity of human beings for sexual pleasure;cl.  (c)  with	diagnosis and cure  of	venereal  and  otherdiseases.   Section  4 prohibits  misleading  advertisementsrelating   to	drugs.	 Section   5   similarly   prohibitsadvertisements	of magic remedies efficacious  for  purposesspecified  in s. 3. Section 6 prohibits the import into	 andexport from India of certain advertisement.  Section 14 is asaving	clause	which  excludes	 registered   practitioners,treatises  or books,, advertisements sent confidentially  tomedical	 practitioners,	 wholesale or  retail  chemists	 fordistribution  among registered medical practitioners  or  tohospitals or laboratories.  It also excludes  advertisementsprinted	 or  published by Government or	 with  the  previoussanction of the Government.  Section 15 gives the Governmentthe power to grant exemptions from the application of ss. 3,4, 5 and 6 in certain cases.As  already  stated  when an enactment is  impugned  on	 theground that it is ultra vires and unconstitutional what	 hasto  be ascertained is the true character of the	 legislationand, for that purpose regard must be had to the enactment asa  whole, to its objects, purpose and true intention and  tothe  scope  and effect of its provisions or  what  they	 aredirected  against  and what they aim at (A.  S.	 Krishna  v.State of Madras (1)).  Thus(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 399, 4060 410.685examined  it cannot be said that the object of the  Act	 wasmerely to put a curb on advertisements which offend  againstdecency	 or  morality  but the object  truly,  and  properlyunderstood  is	to prevent self-medication or  treatment  byprohibiting  instruments which may be used to  advocate	 thesame  or  which tend to spread the evil.  No doubt in  s.  3diseases are expressly mentioned which have relation to	 sexand  disorders	peculiar to women but taken as	a  whole  itcannot	be said that the object of the Act was to deal	onlywith  matters which relate to indecency or immorality.	 Thename  and the preamble are indicative of the  purpose  beingthe control of all advertisements relating to drugs and	 theuse of the word animals in cl. (b) of the definition sectionnegatives  the object being merely to curb the	emphasis  onsex  and  indecency.  Section 4 further	 suggests  that	 thelegislature  was  trying to stop  misleading  advertisementsrelating  to  drugs.  Section 5 also tends  to	support	 theobject	 being	prohibition  of	 advertisements	  suggestingremedies  for all kinds of diseases.  Section 6 also  pointsin  the same direction, i.e., to stop advertisements  as  todrugs.	 Sections  14 and 15 are a clearer  indication	thatthere  should  be no advertisements for	 drugs	for  certaindiseases in order that the general public may not be  misledinto using them for ailments which they may imagine they aresuffering  from and which they might believe to	 be  curablethereby.   That	 this is so is shown by the fact  that	suchadvertisements	 can  be  sent	to  medical   practitioners,hospitals  and	laboratories.  The exclusion  of  Governmentadvertisements and the power to give exemption all point  tothe objective being the stopping of advertisements of  drugsfor  the  object  above-mentioned and  not  merely  to	stopadvertisements offending against morality and decency.Mr.  Munshi's argument was that s. 3 was the key to the	 Actand that the object and direct effect of the Act was to stopadvertisements	and thereby impair the right of free  speechby directly putting a prohibition on advertisement.  If	 thecontention of Mr. Munshi were accepted then the	 restrictionto  be	valid, must fall within cl. (2) of Art.	 19  of	 theConstitution.  In686other  words  it  must have  relationship  with	 decency  ormorality  because  the	other restrictions  of	that  clausehave no application.  If on the other hand the submission ofthe learned Solicitor-General is accepted    then the matterwould  fall under sub-cls. (f) and (g) and  the	 restrictionunder  Art.  19(6).  The object of the Act as shown  by	 thescheme	of  the Act and as stated in the  affidavit  of	 Mr.Merchant  is  the prevention of	 self-medication  and  self-treatment  and a curb on such advertisements is a  means  toachieve that end.  Objection was taken that the preamble  inthe Act does not indicate the object to be the prevention oftreatment  of diseases otherwise than by  qualified  medicalpractitioners  as  the English Venereal	 Diseases  Act	1917does.	In this Court in many cases affidavits were  allowedto be given to show the reasons for the enactment of a	law,the circumstances in which it was conceived and the evils itwas  to cure. This was done in the case of Shri Ram  KrishnaDalmia	v. Shri Justice S. R. Tendolkar (1).  Similarly,  inKathi Raning v. The State of Saurashtra (2 ) and in Kavalap-para  Kottarathil  Kochunni  v.	 The  State  of	 Madras	 (3)affidavits  were allowed to be filed setting out  in  detailthe circumstances which led to the passing of the respectiveenactments.In support of his argument that any limitation of his  rightto advertise his goods was an infringement of his freedom ofspeech because advertisement was a part of that freedom	 Mr.Munshi	relied upon Alma Lovell v. City of Griffin (4).	  Inthat  case  the objection was taken  to the  validity  of  amunicipal  ordinance prohibiting the distribution without  apermit of circulars, handbooks, advertising or literature ofany  kind  on the ground that such  ordinance  violated	 thefirst and the 14th amendment by abridging the freedom of thePress  and it was held that such prohibition was invalid  atits  face  as infringing the constitutional freedom  of	 thePress and constitutional guarantee of such freedom  embracedpamphlets  and	leaflets.  The actual  violation  which	 wascomplained of in that case consisted of the(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 279.(2)  (1952) S.C.R. 435.(3)  A.I.R. (1959) S.C. 725.(4)  82 Law Ed. 949; 303 U.S. 444.     687distribution  without the required permission  of  pamphletsand  magazines	in  the nature of  religious  tracts.  ChiefJustice Hughes, said :-"   The	  ordinance  in	 its  broad  sweep   prohibits	 thedistribution   of  "circulars,	handbooks,  advertising	  orliterature	of  any	 kind."	 It  manifestly	 applies  topamphlets, magazines and periodicals."No  doubt  the	word  advertisement was	 used  both  in	 theordinance  as  well as in the opinion by the  learned  ChiefJustice but the case actually related to the distribution ofpamphlets  and magazines. Mr. Munshi also relied on  ExpressNewspapers (Private) Ltd. v. The, Union of India (1),  wherethe cases dealing with freedom of  speech were discussed  byBhagwati, J., but the question of advertisements as such didnot arise in that case.An  advertisement is no doubt a form of speech but its	truecharacter is reflected by the object for the promotion	  ofwhich it is employed. It assumes the attributes and elementsof  the activity under Art. 19(1) which it seeks to  aid  bybringing  it to the notice of the public. When it takes	 theform  of a commercial advertisement which has an element  oftrade  or commerce it no longer falls within the concept  offreedom of speech for the object is not propagation of ideas-social,	 political or economic or furtherance of  literatureor  human  thought  ;  but  as	in  the	 present  case	 thecommendation  of  the  efficacy,  value	 and  importance  intreatment  of  particular  diseases  by	 certain  drugs	 andmedicines.  In	such  a case, advertisement  is	 a  part  ofbusiness even though as described by Mr. Munshi its creativepart,  and it was being used for the purpose  of  furtheringthe business of the petitioners and had no relationship withwhat  may be called the essential concept of the freedom  ofspeech.	  It  cannot be said that the right to	publish	 anddistribute   commercial	  advertisements   advertising	  anindividual's  personal	business  is a part  of	 freedom  ofspeech	 guaranteed  by	 the  Constitution.   In  Lewis	  J.Valentine  v. F. J. Chrestensen (2).  It was held  that	 theconstitutional right of free speech is not infringed by(1) (1959) S.C.R. 12,123-133.(2) 86 Law.  Ed. 1262.688prohibiting  the distribution in city streets  of  handbillsbearing on one side a protest against action taken by publicofficials and on the other advertising matter.	  The objectof  affixing of the protest to the  advertising	 circularwasthe   evasion  of  the	prohibition  of	 a  city   ordinanceforbidding   the  distribution	in  the	 city	streets	  ofcommercial  and	 business advertising  matter.	Mr.  JusticeRoberts, delivering the opinion of the court said:-"  This	 court has unequivocally held that the	streets	 areproper	 places	  for  the  exercise  of  the	freedom	  ofcommunicating  information  and	 disseminating	opinion	 andthat, though the states and municipalities may appropriatelyregulate the privilege in the public interest, they may	 notunduly	burden or proscribe its employment in  these  publicthoroughfares.	 We are equally clear that the	Constitutionimposes	 no such restraint on government as respects  purelycommercial   advertising......	 If   the   respondent	 wasattempting  to use the streets of New York  by	distributingcommercial   advertising,  the	prohibition  of	  the	Codeprovisions was lawfully invoked against such conduct."It  cannot be said therefore that every advertisement  is  amatter	dealing	 with freedom of speech nor can it  be	saidthat it is an expression of ideas.  In every case one has tosee  what  is  the  nature of  the  advertisement  and	whatactivity falling under Art. 19(1) it seeks to further.	 Theadvertisements	in  the instant case relate to	commerce  ortrade  and not to propagating of ideas; and  advertising  ofprohibited drugs or commodities of which the sale is not  inthe  interest of the general public cannot be speech  withinthe  meaning of freedom of speech and would not fall  withinArt.  19(1)(a).	 The main purpose and true intent  and	aim,object and scope of the Act is to prevent self-medication orself-treatment	 and   for   that   purpose   advertisementscommending certain drugs and medicines have been prohibited.Can  it	 be  said  that	 this  is  an  abridgement  of	 thepetitioners'  right  of free speech.  In our opinion  it  isnot.   Just  as in Chamarbaughwalla's ease (1) it  was	saidthat activities undertaken and(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 930.689carried, on with a view to earning profits e.g. the businessof  betting  and gambling will not be protected	 as  fallingwithin	the  guaranteed right of carrying    on	 business ortrade, so it cannot be said that an advertisement commendingdrugs  and  substances	as  appropriate	 cure  for   certaindiseases  is an exercise of the right of freedom of  speech.Das,  C.J., in State Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaughwala's	 (1)case said at, page 920:"We  have no doubt that there are certain  activities  whichcan under no circumstances be regarded as trade or  businessor  commerce  although the usual forms and  instruments	 areemployed  therein.   To exclude those  activities  from	 themeaning	 of those words is not to cut down their meaning  atall  but  to  say only that they are  not  within  the	truemeaning of those words."One has only to substitute for the words "trade or  businessor  commerce" the phrase "freedom of speech" to see  how  itapplies to the present case.  Freedom of speech goes to	 theheart  of the natural right of an  organised  freedom-lovingsociety to "impart and acquire information about that commoninterest".  If any limitation is placed which results in thesociety being deprived of such right then no doubt it  wouldfall within the guaranteed freedom under Art. 19(1)(a).	 Butif all it does is that it deprives a trader from  commendinghis  wares it would not fall within that term.	In  John  W.Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Company (2), Mr. Justice  McKenna,dealing with advertisements said:-"Advertising   is  merely  identification  and	 descriptionapprising of quality and place.	 It has no other object thanto  draw  attention  to	 the article  to  be  sold  and	 theacquisition  of the article to be sold constitutes the	onlyinducement   to	 its  purchase."As   we	 have  said  above  advertisement  takes  the	sameattributes as the object it seeks to promote or bring to thenotice	of  the public to be used by it.   Examples  can  bemultiplied which would show that advertisement dealing	withtrade and business has relation(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 874.(2) 60 Law Ed. 679, 690,88690with  the item "business or trade" and not with "freedom  ofspeech".   Thus	 advertisements sought to be banned  do	 notfall  under  Art. 19(1)(a).It   was  also	contended  that	 the   prohibition   againstadvertisements	of the petitioners was a direct	 abridgementof the right of freedom of speech and Alice Lee Grosjean  v.The American Press Co. (1) was relied upon.  That was a casein  which a tax was levied based on gross receipts  for	 theprivilege   of	 engaging   in	the   business	 of   publicadvertisements	in  newspapers,	 magazines  etc.  having   aspecified  circulation	and it was there held  that  such  astatute abridged the freedom of the press because its effectwas  not  merely to reduce revenue but it  had	tendency  tocurtail circulation. - This subject was discussed in ExpressNewspapers' case (2) at pages 128 to 133 where the  questionwas  whether  the Wage Board Act specifying  the  wages	 andconditions  of service of the working journalists  and	thusimposing  certain  financial  burden on	 the  press  was  aninterference  with  the	 right	of  freedom  of	 Press	 andBhagwati, J., said at page 135:-" Unless these were the direct or inevitable consequences ofthe  measures enacted in the impugned Act, it would  not  bepossible  to  strike  down the legislation  as	having	thateffect	and operation.	A possible eventuality of this	typewould  Dot necessarily be the consequence which could be  inthe  contemplation  of	the  legislature  while	 enacting  ameasure	 of  this  type	 for  the  benefit  of	the  workmenconcerned."In considering the constitutionality of a statute the  Courthas regard to substance and not to mere matters of form	 andthe  statute  must be decided by its operation	and  effect;J.M. Near v. State of Minnesota(3).In  the	 present  case	therefore  (1)	the   advertisementsaffected by the Act do not fall within the words freedom  ofspeech within Art. 19(1)(a); (2) the scope and object of theAct  its true nature and character is not interference	withthe right of freedom of speech(1)  80 Law Ed. 660.(2)  [1959] S.C.R. 12, 123-133.(3)  75 La- Ed. 1357, 1363-4.	  691but  it	 deals with trade or business; and (3) there  is  nodirect	abridgement of the right of free speech and  a	mereincidental  interference with such right would no alter	 thecharacter  of the law; Ram Singh v. The State of Delhi	(1);Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd. v. The Union of India(2).It   is	 not  the  form	 or  incidental	 infringement	thatdetermines the constitutionality of a, statute in  referenceto the rights guaranteed in Art. 19(1), but the reality	 andsubstance.  The Act read as a whole does not merely prohibitadvertisements	relating  to drugs and	medicines  connectedwith  diseases	expressly mentioned in s. 3 of the  Act	 butthey  cover  all advertisements which are  objectionable  orunethical  and are used to promote self-medication or  self-treatment.  This is the content of the Act.  Viewed in	thisway, it does not select any of the elements or attributes offreedom	 of  speech  falling within  Art.  19(1)(a)  of	 theConstitution.It was next argued that assuming that the matter was  withinclauses	 (f)  &	 (g)  of  Art.	19(1),	the  restraint	 wasdisproportionate  to  the  purpose of the  Act,	 the  objectsought	to be achieved and the evil sought to  be  remedied.It  was	 further argued that it could not be said  that	 therestrictions imposed by the Act were in the interest of	 thegeneral public.	 The basis of this argument was (1) the verywide  definition of the word 'advertisement'in s. 2(a);	 (2)the  use of the word 'suggest' in s. 3; (3) the	 uncanaliseddelegated  power  to add diseases to the schedule;  (4)	 theexistence of s. 14(c) read with rule 6 of the Rules and	 (5)the  procedural	 part  in  s.8 of the  Act;  all  of  which,according  to  counsel,	 showed	 that  it  was	beyond'	 allallowable limits of restraint under cl. 6 of Art. 19.'Advertisement' in the Act, it was argued, included not onlyadvertisements in newspapers and periodicals and other formsof   publication   but	also  on.   cartons,   bottles	 andinstructions  inside a carton.	Without this latter kind  ofadvertisement, it was submitted, the user would be unable toknow  what the medicine was, what it was to be used for	 andhow ? If the purpose(1)  [1951] S.C.R.451, 455.(2)  [1959] S.C.R. 12, 123,133.692of  the	 Act  is  to  prevent  objectionable  and  unethicaladvertisements	in order to discourage self  medication	 andself treatment it cannot be said that the definition is	 toowide keeping in view the object and the purpose	  of the Actwhich have been set out above.	It is these  evils which theAct seeks to cure and if the definition of   the   word	   'advertisment  '	 was  not so broad and	inclusive  it  woulddefeat	the very purpose for which the Act was brought	intoexistence.The argument that the word 'suggest' is something subjectiveis,  in our 'opinion, also not well-founded.  'Suggest'	 hasmany  shades  of  meaning  and	in  the	 context  it   meanscommendatory publication.  It connotes a direct approach andits  use in s. 3 does not support the contention.  that	 therestraint  is  disproportionate.   In another  part  of	 thejudgment we shall discuss the constitutionality of the powerof delegation reasonableness of the range of diseases  addedin  the schedule and it is unnecessary to go over  the	samefield here.Then  we  come	to  s. 14(c)  and  r.  6,  i.e.,  prohibitedadvertisement  is  to be sent confidentially by	 post  to  aregistered medical practitioner or to a wholesale and retailchemist or a hospital and laboratory and the following wordshave  to  be  inscribed	 on  the  outside  of  every  packetcontaining  the advertisement, i.e., " for the use  only  ofregistered   medical  practitioners  or	 a  hospital  or   alaboratory  ".	If  the	 purpose  is  to  discourage   self-medication  and	 encourage treatment by	 properly  qualifiedmedical	 practitioners	then  such  a  regulatory  provisioncannot be considered an excessive restraint.  The mere	factthat in the corresponding English Act certain other  personsare  also  mentioned  and that such  advertisements  can  bepublished   in	certain	 medical  journals  and	  scientifictreatises is not a ground for holding the restriction to  bedisproportionate.  It is not a proper method of judging	 thereasonableness of the restrictions to compare every  sectionof  the Act with the corresponding English Act and  then  tohold  it  unreasonable	merely	because	 the   correspondingsection of the two Acts are different.	The evil may be	 thesame but the circumstances and     693conditions  in the two countries in regard to journals	 maybe  different and there are bound to be differences   in thedegree	of restrictiveness in the operativeportions  of	 thetwo Acts. The policy behind the Act is that	  medicationshould be on the advice of qualified medical  practitioners.Merely	because	 the legislature thought that it  would	 notexclude	 advertisements in medical journals of	the  countrywould  not  be	indicative  of	the  disproportion  of	 therestraint.Objection was then taken to the procedural part in s. 8	 andit  was submitted that the power seizure and  detention	 wasunfettered and and  there is no proper procedure  laid	downCriminal  Procedure Code or the Drugs Act are no  rules	 andsafeguards  in	regard warrants or entry  into	premises  asthere  Code  of	 Criminal Procedure or	the  Drugs  Act.  Inanother	 part  of  the	judgment we  shall  deal  with	thisquestion and it is not necessary to do so here. It was next contended that the Act was not in the  interestof  the	 general  public as it could not be  said  that	 themention	 of the names of diseases or instructions as to	 theuse  of particular medicines for those diseases was  not  inthe  interest  of  the general	public.	 Besides,  it  wouldprevent	 the  medicines being brought to the notice  of	 thepractising  medical practitioners or distributing  agencies.It  would  also	 prevent  a  properly  worded  advertisementsuggesting  cure of diseases to people who for the  sake  ofprestige and other understandably valid reasons do not	liketo  confide to any person the nature of their  diseases	 andthat it would prevent medical relief in a country where suchrelief	is notoriously inadequate. We have already  set	 outthe purpose and scope of the Act, the conditions in which itwas passed and the evils it seeks to cure. If the object  isto prevent self-medication or self--treatment, as it appearsto be then these are exactly  the    evils    which	suchadvertisements would subserve if a piece of legislation likethe Act did not exist. It has not   been  shown	  that	 therestrictions laid down in the Act   are	  in   any    mannerdisproportionate to the object sought to be attained by	 theAct nor has it been of694shown  that  the restrictions are  outside  the	 permissiblelimits.Mr.   Chatterjee  in  dealing  with  this  point  drew	 ourattention  to  the test of reasonablenses as  laid  down  inChintaman  Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1)  where  itwas  said by Mahajan, J. (as he then was) at pages  762	 and763:-" The question for decision is whether the statute under theguise of protecting public interests arbitrarily  interfereswith   private	 business  and	imposes	  unreasonable	 andunnecessarily	 restrictive   regulations    upon    lawfuloccupation; in other words' whether the total prohibition ofcarrying on the business of manufacture of bidis within	 theagricultural  season amounts to a reasonable restriction  onthe fundamental rights mentioned in article 19(1)(g) of	 theConstitution.  "It  has	 not been shown in the present case that  under	 theguise  of  protecting public interest  the  Act	 arbitrarilyinterferes  with  private business or  imposes	unreasonablerestrictions.	If  the	 true intention of the	Act  is,  asindeed	 it   is,  to  stop  objectionable   and   unethicaladvertisements	 for  the  purpose  of	discouraging   self-medication no question of unreasonable restrictions  arises.Mr. Chatterjee also relied upon the observation of Bose, J.,in Dwarka Das Srinivas of Bombay v. The Sholapur Spinning  &Weaving	 Company  Limited (2) where the learned	 Judge	saidthat   "  the  provisions  in  the   Constitution   touchingfundamental  rights must be construed broadly and  liberallyin favour of those on whom the rights have been conferred ".With  this statement we are in accord.	 The  interpretationshould	be  such  as  to  subserve  the	 protection  of	 thefundamental  rights  of the citizen but that is	 subject  tolimitations  set  out in Art. 19 itself which  are  for	 thegeneral	 welfare of all ,citizens taken as a whole  and	 aretherefore  for	the  interest of the  general  public.	 Mr.Chatterjee   further  contended	 that  the   restraint	 wasexcessive  because the prohibition of a mere mention of	 thename  of  a disease and the suggestion of a  cure  for	thatcould(1) [1950] S.C.R. 739.(2) [1954] S.C. R. 674, 733.695not be a reasonable restriction. As submitted by the learnedSolicitor-General  the objection is not to the names but  tothe advertisements commending certain  medicines as a  curefor the same and this is what the Act  is  endeavouring	 toeliminate. In our opinion it cannot   be  said	 that	therestrictions either excessiveor disproportionate or are notin the interest of the	general public.The third point raised by Mr. Munshi was that thewords	'orany other disease or condition which maybe specified inthe rules made under this Act' in cl.(d) of s. 3 of the	 Actare  delegated legislation and do not lay down	any  certaincriteria or proper standards,and  surrender  unguided	anduncanalised power to theexecutive to add to diseases in theschedule. Thelearned Solicitor-General in reply	 supportedtheschedule  as a case of conditional legislation and  notthe  exercise of delegated legislative power and he  furthercontended that even if it was held to be thelatter  it	waswithin	the  limits recognised by  judicial  decisions.	 Thedistinction  between conditional legislation  and  delegatedlegislation is this that in the former the delegate's  poweris  that of determining when a legislative declared rule  ofconduct shallbecome  effective; Hampton & Co. v. U.S.  (1)and thelatter  involves delegation of rule  making  powerwhich  constitutionally	 may  be  exercised  by	 the  admin-istrative agent. This means that the legislature having laiddown  the broad principles of its policy in the	 legislationcan   then  leave  the	details	 to  be	 supplied   by	 theadministrative	authority.  In	other  words  by   delegatedlegislation  the  delegate  completes  the  legislation	  bysupplying  details  within  the	 limits	 prescribed  by	 thestatute and in the case of conditionallegislation      thepower  of  legislation	is  exercised  by  the	 legislatureconditionally  leaving	to  the discretion  of	an  externalauthority  the time and manner -of carrying its	 legislationinto  effect as also the determination of the area to  whichit is to extend; (The Queen v. Burah	(2 ); Russell v. TheQueen  (3); King-Emperor v. (1) 276 U.S. 394.  (2) (1878)  3App.  Cas. 889. (1882) 7 App.  Cas. 829, 835.696Benoarilal  Sarma  (1);	 Sardar	 Indar	Singh  v.  State  ofRajasthan  (2). ) Thus when the delegate is given the  powerof  making  rules and regulations in order to  fill  in	 thedetails	 to  carry  out and subserve  the  purposes  of	 thelegislation  the  manner in which the  requirements  of	 thestatute	 are to be met and the rights therein created to  beenjoyed	 it  is an exercise of delegated  legislation.	 Butwhen   the  legislation	 is  complete  in  itself  and	 thelegislature  has itself made the law and the  only  functionleft  to the delegate is to apply the law to an area  or  todetermine the time and manner of carrying it into effect, itis  conditional legislation.  To put it in the	language  ofanother American case:" To assert that a law is less than a law because it is madeto  depend  upon  a  future  event or  act  is	to  rob	 thelegislature  of	 the  power to act  wisely  for	 the  publicwelfare	 whenever  a law is passed relating to	a  state  ofaffairs	  not  yet  developed,	or  to	things	future	 andimpossible to fully know.  "The proper distinction there pointed out was this:"  The legislature cannot delegate its power to make a	law,but it can make a law to delegate a power to determine	somefact or state of things upon which the law makes or  intendsto  make its own action depend.	 There are many things	uponwhich  wise and useful legislation must depend which  cannotbe  known  to the law making power, and	 must  therefore  besubject	 of  enquiry and determination outside the  hall  oflegislatures(In  Lockes  Appeal 72 Pa. 491 ; Field v. Clark	 143  U.  S.649.)But  the  discretion  should  not be  so  wide	that  it  isimpossible  to	discern its limits.  There must	 instead  bedefinite   boundaries  within  which  the  powers   of	 theadministrative authority are exercisable.  Delegation shouldbe not be so indefinite as to amount to an abdication of thelegislative  function-Schwartz American Administrative	Law,page 21.In  an Australian case relied upon by the learned  SolicitorGeneral	 the prohibition by proclamation of(1) (1944) L.R.	 72 I.A. 57, (2) [1957] S.C.R. 604,      697goods  under  s.  52  of  the  Customs	Act  1901  was	heldto  be	conditional  legislation:  Baxter  v.  Ah  Way	 (1)According to that case the legislature has to project	 itsmind into the future and provide as far as     possible	 forall contingencies likely to arise in the application of	 thelaw,  but  as  it  is  not  possible  to   provide  for	 allcontingencies  specifically for all cases,, the	 legislatureresorts	 to  conditional  legislation  leaving	it  to	somespecified  authority to determine in what circumstances	 thelaw should become operative or to what its operation  shouldbe extended, or the particular class of persons or goods -towhich  it should be applied: Baxter's case (1) at pp. 637  &638.Broadly	 speaking these are the distinguishing	features  ofthe   two   forms  of  delegation  and	 these	 are   theircharacteristics.  The question is in which compartment	doesthe power given in the Act fall.The power given to the authority under that provision (S. 3)of the Act is contained in cl. (d) in the following words:-S.3 " Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shalltake  any  part	 in the	 publication  of  any  advertisementreferring  to  any  drug  in  terms  which  suggest  or	 arecalculated to lead to the use of that drug for .......................................... ......................................................... .........................................................(d)  the   diagnosis,	cure,	mitigation,   treatment	  orprevention  of any venereal disease or any other disease  orcondition  which may be specified in rules made	 under	thisAct."And  power to make rules is laid down in s. 16 which  is  asfollows:-S.   16	 (1) "The Central Government may by notification  inthe  official  gazette	make  rules  for  carrying  out	 thepurposes of this Act.(2)  In	 particular and without prejudice to the  generalityof  the	 foregoing  power, such	 rules	may(a) specify any disease or condition to which the provisionsof s. 3 shall apply;(1)  3 Com.  L. R. 626, 634, 637, 638.698(b) prescribe the manner in which advertisement of  articlesor things referred to in cl. (c) of sub-s. (1)	  of  s.  14may be sent confidentially."For  the petitioner it was argued that s. 3(d) is  delegatedlegislation  and  not conditional legislation as  the  powerdelegated therein is only to specify conditions and diseasesin the rules.The  interdiction under the Act is applicable to  conditionsand  diseases set out in the various clauses of s. 3 and  tothose  that  may  under	 the last  part	 of  clause  (d)  bespecified  in the rules made under s. 16.  The	first  'sub-section	 of is. 16 authorises the making of rules  to  carryout  the purposes of the Act and cl. (a) of sub-section	 (2)of that section specifically authorises the specification ofdiseases or conditions to which the provisions of s. 3 shallapply.	 It is the first sub-section of s. 16 which  confersthe  general \rule making power, i.e., it delegates  to	 theadministrative	authority  the	power  to  frame  rules	 andregulations  to subserve the object and purpose of the	Act.Clause (a) of the second sub-section is merely	illustrativeof the power given under the first sub-section; King Emperorv. Sibnath Banerji (1).	 Therefore, sub-s. 2(a) also has thesame object as sub-s. (1), i.e, to carry out the purposes ofthe  Act.   Consequently,  when the  rule  making  authorityspecifies  conditions  and  diseases  in  the  schedule	  itexercises  the same delegated authority as it does  when  itexercises powers under sub-s. (1) and makes other rules	 andtherefore  it  is delegated legislation.  The  question	 fordecision  then is, is the delegation constitutional in	thatthe  administrative authority has been supplied with  properguidance.   In	our  view  the	words  impugned	 are  vague.Parliament has established no criteria, no standards and hasnot  prescribed any principle on which a particular  diseaseor condition is to be specified in the Schedule.  It is	 notstated	what  facts or circumstances are to  be	 taken	intoconsideration to include a particular- condition or disease.The power of specifying diseases and conditions as given  ins.   3(d)  must	 therefore  be	held  to  be  going   beyondpermissible boundaries(1)  (1945) L.R. 72 I.A. 241.699of  valid delegation. As a consequence the Schedule   in therules  must be struck down. But that would not	affect	suchconditions and diseases which properly	fall within thefour clauses of s. 3 excluding the portion of	cl.    (d)which has been declared to be unconstitutional. In the	viewwe have taken it is unnecessary to	consider      theapplicability of Baxter v. Ah Way (1).We  are	 of the opinion therefore that the words  "  or	 anyother  disease	or condition which may be specified  in	 therules	made  under  this  Act	"  confer  uncanalised	 anduncontrolled power to- the Executive and are therefore ultravires.	But their being taken out' of cl. (d) of s.  3	doesnot  affect the constitutionality of the rest of the  clauseor  section as they are severable; R. M. D.  Chamarbaughwalav. The Union of India (2).The  constitutionality of s. 8 of the Act was challenged  onthe  ground  that it violated the petitioners'	right  underArts. 21 and 31. That section when quoted runs as follows:"  Any	person authorised by the State	Government  in	thisbehalf	may,  at any time, seize............and	 detain	 anydocument,  article or thing which such person has reason  tobelieve' contains any advertisement which contravenes any ofthe  provisions	 of  this  Act and  the	 court	trying	suchcontravention  may  direct that such document (includingallcopies	thereof) article or thing shall be forfeited to	 theGovernment".It	was pointed out by Mr. Munshi that  therewas nolimitation  placed  on, no rules	and  regulationsmade for and no safeguards provided in regard to the  powersof a person authorised in that behalf by Government to seizeand  detain any document, article or anything which  in	 theopinion of such person contains	    any	     advertisementcontravening any of theprovisions of the Act. It was  alsosubmitted that in the  corresponding English Act of  1939,in  s. 10 there are proper safeguards provided in regard  tothe exercise of the power of seizure etc. The first part  ofs. 8 of the Act dealing with seizure and detention  receivedslender support from the Solicitor-General. It may(1) 8 Com.  L.R. 626, 634, 637, 638,(2)[1957] S.C.R. 930.700be, he contended, that having regard to the purpose	 andobject	 of   the  Act	the  Indian  legislature   did	 notthink it necessary to provide any safeguards and that	 thelegislature  thought  that  nobody would  be  prejudiced  byreason of the want of safeguard previous to the seizure,  Inour opinion this portion of the	   section  goes far  beyondthe  purpose for which the Act was enacted and, the  absenceof  the	 safeguards  which the legislature  has	 thought  itnecessary and expedient in other statutes, e.g., the  IndianDrugs Act, is an unreasonable restriction on the fundamentalrights of the petitioners and therefore the first portion ofthe  section,  i.e., " any person authorised by any  of	 theprovisions  of this Act" is unconstitutional.  What then  isthe  consequence  of  this unconstitutionality	?   If	thisportion	 is  excised  from  the	 rest  of  the	section	 theremaining  portion  is not even intelligible and  cannot  beupheld.	 The whole of the section 'must therefore be  struckdown.By a portion of cl. (d) of s. 3 and the whole of B. 8  beingdeclared unconstitutional the Act is not thereby affected asthey  are  severable  from  the	 rest  of  the	Act.   As  aconsequence of excision of that portion and of s. 8 from theAct  the  operation  of the remaining  portion	of  the	 Actremains	 unimpaired.  R. M. D. Chamarbaughwala v. The  Unionof  India(1).  As a result of s. 8 being  declared  invalid,all the goods seized from the petitioners having been seizedwithout	 the  authority	 of  law must  be  returned  to	 therespective  petitioners.  It will be for the  Government  totake  such  action  in regard to the  proceedings  taken  orprosecutions commenced as is in accordance with the law laiddown in this Judgment.We  declare the portion of cl. (d) of s. 3  indicated  aboveand  s. 8 unconstitutional and direct therefore that a	writof mandamus shall issue directing the respondents to  returnthe  goods  seized.  As the petitioners'  challenge  to	 theconstitutionality  of  the Act is partially  successful	 theproper	order as to costs is that the parties do  pay  theirown costs.Petitions partly allowed.(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 930.701