PETITIONER:A.   S. KRISHNA	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF, MADRAS.(with connected appeals)DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/11/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  297		  1957 SCR  399ACT:Madras	Prohibition Act, 1937 (Mad.  X Of 1937),  ss.  4(1),4(2), 28, 29, 30, 3I, 32-Constitutional validity-Legislativecompetency  Pith  and  substance  of  the  legislation	-TheGovernment of India Act, 1935 (26 Geo. 5 & 1 Edw. 8 Ch.	 2),s.  1O7(r), Sch. 7 List II, Entry 31-Constitution of  India,Art.  I4.HEADNOTE:The appellants were charged before the Presidency Magistratefor offences under the Madras Prohibition Act, 1937 and whenthe   cases  were  taken  up  for  trial  they	raised	 thecontentions  that SS. 4(2) and 28 to 32 of the Act are	voidunder  S.  107(I)  of the Government  of  India	 Act,  1935,because	 they are repugnant to the provisions of the  IndianEvidence  Act,	1872, and the Code  of	Criminal  Procedure,1898, and also because they are repugnant to Art. 14 Of	 theConstitution of India.	On their application, the Magistratereferred  the  questions for the opinion of the	 High  Courtunder  S. 432' of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  The	HighCourt  having answered the questions against the  appellantsthey preferred the present appeal under Art. 136.Held, that the Madras Prohibition Act, 1937, is both in formand in substance a law relating to intoxicating liquors	 andthat the presumptions in S. 4(2) and the provisions relatingto  search,  seizure and arrest in SS. 28 to 32 of  the	 Acthave no operation apart from offences created by the Act andare  wholly  ancillary to the exercise	of  the	 legislativepower under Entry 31 in List II, Sch. 7 of the Government ofIndia  Act, 1935.  Accordingly the Act is in its entirety  alaw  within  the  exclusive  competence	 of  the  ProvincialLegislature  and the question of repugnancy under S.  107(1)of the Government of India Act, 1935, does not arise.When a law is impugned on the ground that it is -ultra viresthe powers of the legislature which enacted it, what has  tobe ascertained is the true character of the legislation.  Todo  that, one must have regard to the enactment as a  whole,to  its	 objects  and  to  the	scope  and  effect  of	 itsprovisions.   If  on such examination it is found  that	 thelegislation is in substance one on a matter assigned to	 thelegislature,  then  it	must  be held to  be  valid  in	 itsentirety,  even	 though	 it  might  incidentally  trench  onmatters which are beyond its competence.  It would be  quitean erroneous approach to the question to view such a statutenot  as	 an  organic  whole, but as  a	mere  collection  ofsections,  then	 disintegrate it into parts,  examine  underwhat heads of legislation those parts52400would  severally  fall, and by that process  determine	whatportions thereof are intra vires, and what are not.Subrahmanyan Chettiar v. Muthuswami Goundain, (1940)  F.C.R.188,  Pyafulla Kumar Mukherjee v. The Bank of Commerce	Ltd.(1940) L.R. 74 I.A. 23 and Lakhi Narayan Das v. The Provinceof Bihar (1949) F.C.R. 693, relied on.Held further, that the presumptions in s. 4(2) Of the Act donot  off end the requirements as to equality before  law  orthe equal protection of laws under Art. 14, as they have  tobe  raised  against  all  persons  against  whom  the  factsmentioned  therein are established.  Even assuming that	 thelaw in America that a presumption of guilt would offend	 therequirement of the equal protection of laws unless there  isa  rational  connection	 between  the  act  proved  and	 theultimate fact presumed, could have application to the IndianConstitution, on a proper reading of the sections there is areasonable  relation  between the presumption raised  in  S.4(2) and the offences under s. 4(1).William N. McFarland v. American Sugar Refining Company, 24IU.S.  79;  6o L. Ed. 899, Albert 1. Adams v. People  of	 theState  of  New York, 192 U.S. 585 48 L. Ed. 575	 and  RobertHawes  v.  State  of  Georiya, 258 U.S. I  66  L.  Ed.	431,referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos.  20to 23 of 1955.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedMay  7, 1954, of the Madras High Court in Criminal  RevisionCases Nos. 57 to 60 of 1954 and Case Referred Nos. 2 to 5 of1954.N.   C.	 Chatterji, S. Venkatakrishnan and  S.	Subramanian,for the appellants.V.   K.	 T. Chari, Advocate-General, Madras, Ganapathy	Iyerand T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1956.  November 28.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AYYAR J.-The point for decision in these appealsis  whether  ss. 4(2), 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 of	 the  MadrasProhibition  Act No. X of 1937, hereinafter referred  to  asthe Act, are unconstitutional and void.It  will  be  convenient  first	 to  set  out  the  impugnedstatutory  provisions.	 Section  4, omitting  what  is	 notmaterial runs as follows;4014(1) " Whoever(a)  imports, exports, transports or possesses liquor or anyintoxicating drug; or (g)  uses, keeps or has in his possession   any  materials,still,	utensil, implement or apparatus whatsoever  for	 thetapping	 of  toddy  or	the manufacture	 of  liquor  or	 anyintoxicating drug; or(j) consumes or buys liquor or any intoxicating drug ; or(k)  allows  any of the acts aforesaid upon premises in	 hisimmediate possession,shall be punished-Provided  that nothing contained in this  sub-section  shallapply  to  any act done under, and in accordance  with,	 theprovisions   of	 this  Act  or	the  terms  of	 any   rule,notification, order, licence or permit issued thereunder.(2)  It shall be presumed until the contrary is shown-(a)  that a person accused of any offence under clauses	 (a)to  (j)	 of sub-section (1) has committed  such	 offence  inrespect	 of  any liquor or intoxicating drug or	 any  still,utensil,  implement or apparatus whatsoever for the  tappingof  toddy or the manufacture of liquor or  any	intoxicatingdrug,  or any such materials as are ordinarily used  in	 thetapping	 of  toddy  or	the manufacture	 of  liquor  or	 anyintoxicating drug, for the possession of which he is  unableto account satisfactorily ; and (b)  that a person accused of any offence under clause	 (k)of sub-section (1) has committed such offence if an  offenceis  proved  to	have  been  committed  in  premises  in	 hisimmediate   possession	 in  respect  of   any	 liquor	  orintoxicating  drug  or	any  still,  utensil,  implement  orapparatus  whatsoever  for  the	 tapping  of  toddy  or	 themanufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug, or any	suchmaterials as are ordinarily used in the tapping of toddy  orthe manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug.402Section	 28  provides  that if	any  Collector,	 ProhibitionOfficer or Magistrate has reason to believe that an  offenceunder s. 4(1) has been committed, he may issue a warrant forsearch.	  Section  29 confers on certain officers  power  tosearch	and  seize articles even without  a  warrant,  undercertain	 circumstances.	  Section 30  provides	for  certainclasses	 of officers entering any place by day or night	 forinspection  of	stills,	 implements, liquor  and  the  like.Section	 31 authorises the officers empowered to make  entryunder ss. 28, 29 or 30, to break open any door or window andremove	obstacles, if otherwise they could not	make  entry.Section 32 confers authority on a Prohibition Officer or anyofficer of the Police or Land Revenue Departments to  arrestwithout	 warrant  any person found  committing	any  offenceunder s. 4(1).Now,   the  facts  are	that  on  November  18,	 1953,	 theProhibition   Officer,	 Madras	  City,	  and	the   DeputyCommissioner  of  Police made a search of premises  No.	 28,Thanikachala  Chetty  Street, Thyagarayanagar,	Madras,	 andseized	several	 bottles  of  foreign  liquor  and   glassescontaining  whisky  and	 soda.	 The  appellant,  LakshmananChettiar, was residing at the premises, and the other  threeappellants,  A.	 S.  Krishna,  R.  Venkataraman	 and  V.  S.Krishnaswamy,  were found drinking from the glass  tumblers.All  the four were immediately put under arrest and  in	 duecourse	charge-sheets  were laid against them  for  offencesunder the Act.	The three appellants other- than  LakshmananChettiar were charged under ss. 4 (1) (a) and 4 (1) (j)	 forpossession   and  consumption  of  liquor,  and	  LakshmananChettiar  was  charged under s. 4 (1) (k) for  allowing	 theabove acts in premises in his immediate possession, a  unders.  12	for abetment of the offences.  He was  also  chargedunder  s. 4 (1) (a) on the allegation that though he  was  apermit-holder, he was in possession of more units than	wereallowed under the permit, and that by reason of the  provisoto that section, he had committed an	offence	 under s.  4(1) (a).  Immediately after service of	summons,	 theappellants filed an application unders. 432 of the  CriminalProcedure Code, wherein they contended that ss. 4(2) and  28to 32 of the Act were			    403repugnant  to the provisions of the Constitution,  and	weretherefore void, and prayed that the above question might  bereferred  for  the decision of the High	 Court.	  The  ThirdPresidency  Magistrate,	 before whom  the  proceedings	werepending,  allowed the application, and referred to the	HighCourt as many as seven questions on the constitutionality ofvarious	 sections of the Act.  This reference was  heard  byRajamannar,   C.J.,   and  Umamaheswaram,  J.,	 who   held,disagreeing with the appellants, that ss. 4(2) and 28 to  32were  valid,,  and  answered  the  reference  against  them.Against	 this  judgment, the appellants have  preferred	 thepresent appeals under Art. 136 of the Constitution.Two  contentions have been urged in support of the  appeals:(1) Section 4(2) and sa. 28 to 32 of the Act are void  unders.  107 of the Government of India Act, 1935, which was	 theConstitution  Act  in  force when the Act  in  question	 waspassed,	 because  they are repugnant to	 the  provisions  ofexisting  Indian  laws with respect to the same	 matter,  towit,  Indian Evidence Act I of 1872 and	 Criminal  ProcedureCode  Act No. V of 1898, and (2) the impugned  sections	 arerepugnant to Art. 14 of the Constitution, and have thereforebecome void under Art. 13(1).(1)  Taking the first contention, the point for' decision iswhether	 the  impugned provisions are hit by s. 107  of	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935.	 Subsection (1) of  s.	107,which is the relevant provision, runs as follows:"If  any provision of a Provincial law is repugnant  to	 anyprovision of a Federal law which the Federal legislature  iscompetent to enact or to any provision of an existing Indianlaw  with -respect to one of the matters enumerated  in	 theConcurrent Legislative List, then, subject to the provisionsof  this section, the Federal law, whether passed before  orafter  the  Provincial	law, or, as the	 case  may  be,	 theexisting  Indian law, shall prevail and the  Provincial	 lawshall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void.  "For this section to apply, two conditions must be fulfilled:(1)  The provisions of the Provincial law and those  of	 theCentral legislation must both be in respect404of a matter which is enumerated' in the Concurrent List, and(2)  they must be repugnant to each other.  It is only	whenboth  these requirements are satisfied that  the  provinciallaw will, to the extent of the repugnancy, become void.	 Thefirst question, therefore, that has to be decided is, is thesubject-matter of the impugned -legislation one that  falls,within	the Provincial List, in which case s. 107  would  beinapplicable, or is it one which falls within the ConcurrentList,  in  which case the further question,  whether  it  isrepugnant to the Central legislation will have to be decided?The Entries in the Lists which are material for the  presentdiscussion are the following:List II-Provincial Legislative List.2.   Jurisdiction  and	powers	of  all	 courts	 except	 theFederal	 Court, with respect to any of the matters  in	thislist; procedure in Rent and Revenue Courts.31.  Intoxicating  liquors  and narcotic drugs, that  is  tosay,  the  production, manufacture,  possession,  transport,purchase  and sale of intoxicating liquors, opium and  othernarcotic  drugs,  but  subject, as respects  opium,  to	 theprovisions of List I and, as respects poisons and  dangerousdrugs, to the provisions of List 111.37.  Offences  against	laws  with respect  of	any  of	 thematters in this list.List III-Concurrent Legislative List.2.   Criminal  Procedure, including all matters included  inthe Code of Criminal Procedure at the date of the passing ofthis Act.5.   Evidence  and oaths; recognition of laws,	public	actsand records and judicial proceedings.Now, it is not contested that the Madras Prohibition Act, asa  whole,  is  a law in	 respect  of  intoxicating  liquors,falling	 within	 Entry	31  of	the  Provincial	 list.	 Thedeclared  object of the enactment as stated in the  preambleto  it	is  "to bring about  the  prohibition......  of	 theproduction,   manufacture,   possession,   export,   import,transport, purchase, sale and assumption of			    405intoxicating liquors............ And this is carried out  ins.  4(1), which enacts prohibition in respect of  the  abovematters, and imposes penalties for breach of the same.	 Theother  provisions  of the Act may broadly  be  divided	intothose  which  are intended to effectuate s. 4(1)  and  thosewhich  regulate	 the  grant of licences	 and  permits.	 Thelegislation  is	 thus on a topic which is  reserved  to	 theProvinces and would therefore fall outside a. 107(1) of	 theConstitution Act.The  argument of Mr. N. C. Chatterjee for the  appellant  isthat  though  the  Act	is  within  the	 competence  of	 theProvincial Legislature in so far as it prohibits possession,sale,  consumption,  etc.,  of liquor  under  3.  4(1),	 thematters	 dealt with under s. 4(2) and ss. 28 to 32 fall	 notwithin	Entry  31  of List II but within  Entries  5  and  2respectively   of  List	 III,  and  to	that   extent,	 thelegislation is on matters enumerated in the Concurrent List.He  contends that a. 4(2) enacting as it does a	 presumptionto be drawn by the court on certain facts being established,deals  with what is purely a matter of evidence, and  it  istherefore  not a law on intoxicating liquors  but  evidence.Likewise,  he argues, the -provisions in ss. 28 to  32	dealwith  matters  pertaining  to Criminal	Procedure,  such  aswarrants,  seizure and arrest, and have no  connection	withintoxicating liquors.  It is accordingly contended that	 ss.4(2)  and 28 to 32 are legislation under Entries 5 and 2  ofList  III, and that their validity must be tested  under  s.107(1).The appellants are right in their contention that s. 4(2) ofthe  Act enacts a rule of evidence but does it	follow	fromthis  that it is a law on evidence, such as is	contemplatedby  Entry  5 in the Concurrent List ? so also ss. 28  to  32undoubtedly  deal with matters of Procedure in	relation  tocrimes,	 but  are  they for that reason to  be	regarded  aslegislation  on	 Criminal Procedure Code within Entry  2  ofList III ? The basic assumption on which the argument of theappellants rests is that the heads of legislation set out inthe  several Lists are so precisely drawn as to be  mutuallyexclusive.   But  then, it must be remembered  that  we	 areconstruing a federal Constitution, It is of the406essence	 of  such  a Constitution that	there  should  be  adistribution  of  the legislative powers of  the  Federationbetween	 the  Centre  and  the	Provinces.   The  scheme  Ofdistribution  has varied with different	 Constitutions,	 buteven when the Constitution enumerates elaborately the topicson  which  the Centre and the States could  legislate,	someoverlapping  of,  the fields of legislation  is	 inevitable.The  British  North America Act, 1867, which  established  afederal Constitution for Canada, enumerated in ss. 91 and 92the topic,-,, on which the Dominion and the Provinces  couldrespectively legislate.	 Notwithstanding that the lists wereframed so as to be fairly full and comprehensive, it was notlong  before it was found that the topics enumerated in	 thetwo sections overlapped, and the Privy Council had time	 andagain  to pass on the constitutionality of laws made by	 theDominion  and  Provincial  legislatures.   It  was  in	thissituation that the Privy Council evolved the doctrine,	thatfor  deciding  whether	an impugned  legislation  was  intravires,	regard must be had to its pith and substance.	Thatis to say, if a statute is found in substance to relate to atopic with. in the competence of the legislature, it  shouldbe held to be intra vires, even though it might incidentallytrench	on topics not within its legislative competence	 Theextent of the encroachment on matters beyond its  competencemay be an element in determining whether the legislation  iscolourable, that is, whether in the guise of making a law ona matter within it competence, the legislature is, in truth,making a law on a subject beyond its competence.  But  wherethat is not the position, then the fact of encroachmen	doesnot affect the vires of the law even as regards the area  ofencroachment.  Vide Citizens Insurance Company of Canada  v.William	 Parson8(1), The Attorney General of Ontario v.	 TheAttorney-General   for	the  Dominion  of   Canada(1),	 TheAttorney-General of Ontari, v. The Attorney-General for	 theDominion(3 ), Union Colliery Company of British Columbia  v.Bryden(4)  Attorney-General for' Canada v.  Attorney-Generalfor(1) [1881] 7 A. C. 96.		(3) [1896] A.C. 348.(2) [1894] A.C. 189.		(4) [1899] A.C. 580.407Ontario(,), Attorney-General for Alberta v.  AttorneyGeneralfor  Canada(2  ),  and Board  of  Trustees  of	LetherbridgeNorthern   Irrigation  District	 v.  Independent  Order	  ofForesters(1).The  principles laid down in the above decisions  have	beenapplied	 in deciding questions as to the vires	of  statutespassed	by the Indian legislatures under the  Government  ofIndia  Act,  1935.  In Subrahmanyan Chettiar  v.  MuttuswamiGoundan(4),  the  question  was as  to	whether	 the  MadrasAgriculturalist' Relief Act IV of 1938, which was within theexclusive  competence  of the Provincial  Legislature  underEntries	 20 and 21 in List 11 was ultra vires, in so far  asit related to promissory notes executed by agriculturists byreason	of the fact that under Entry 28, List  I,  "cheques,bills	of  exchange,  promissory  notes  and	other	likeinstruments  "	were matters falling  within  the  exclusivejurisdiction of the Centre.  In holding that the legislationwas  intra vires, Sir Maurice Gwyer C. J. stated the  reasonin these terms:"  It  must  inevitably	 happen	 from  time  to	 time	thatlegislation, though purporting to deal with a subject in onelist,  touches	also on a subject in another list,  and	 thedifferent  provisions  of the enactment may  be	 so  closelyintertwined  that  blind  adherence  to	 a  strictly  verbalinterpretation	would result in a large number	of  statutesbeing declared invalid because the Legislature enacting themmay appear to have legislated in a forbidden sphere.   Hencethe  rule which has been evolved by the	 Judicial  Committeewhereby the impugned statute is examined to ascertain its  'pith and substance' or its 'true nature and character',	 forthe  purpose  of determining whether it	 is  legislation  inrespect of matters in this list or in that............"This  point  arose directly for decision  before  the  PrivyCouncil in Prafulla'Kumar Mukherjee v. The Bank of Commerce,Ltd. (5).  There, the question was whether the Bengal Money-Lenders Act, 1940, which(1) [1937] A.C. 355.		(4) [1940] F.C.R. 188.(2) [1939] A.C. 117.		(5) [1946-47] 74 I.A. 23.(3)  [1940] A.C. 513.53408limited	 the  amount  recoverable  by  a  money-lender	 forprincipal and interest on his loans, was valid in so far  asit related to promissory notes.	 Money-lending is within theexclusive  competence  of the Provincial  Legislature  underItem 27 of List II, but promissory note is a topic  reservedfor  the  Centre, vide List 1, Item 28. It was held  by	 thePrivy  Council that the pith and substance of  the  impugnedlegislation    being   money   lending,	  it	was    validnotwithstanding	 that it incidentally encroached on a  fieldof  legislation	 reserved  for the Centre  under  Entry	 28.After quoting with approval the observations of Sir  MauriceGwyer  C.J. in Subrahmanyan Chettiar v. Muttuswami  Goundan,(supra) above quoted, Lord Porter observed:"Their Lordships agree that this passage correctly describesthe  grounds  on  which the rule is  founded,  and  that  itapplies to Indian as well as to Dominion legislation."No  doubt  experience	of past difficulties  has  made	 theprovisions of the Indian Act more exact in some particulars,and the existence of the Concurrent List has made it  easierto distinguish between those matters which are essential  indetermining  to	 which list particular provision  should  beattributed  and those which are merely incidental.  But	 theoverlapping of subjectmatter is not avoided by	substitutingthree lists for two, or even by arranging for a hierarchy ofjurisdictions.	Subjects must still overlap, and where	theydo, the question must be asked what in pith and substance isthe effect of the enactment of which complaint is made,	 andin  what list is its true nature and character to be  found.If  these  questions  could not be  asked,  much  beneficentlegislation  would  be	stifled at birth, and  many  of	 thesubjects  entrusted  to Provincial legislation	could  nevereffectively be dealt with."Then,  dealing	with  the  question of	the  extent  of	 theinvasion  by  the Provincial legislation  into	the  Federalfields, Lord Porter observed:"No doubt it is an important matter, not, as their Lordshipsthink,	because the validity of an Act can be determined  bydiscriminating	between	 degrees of invasion,  but  for	 thepurpose of determining what is the409pith and substance of the impugned Act.	 Its provisions	 mayadvance	 so far into Federal territory as to show  that	 itstrue  nature is not concerned with ProVincial  matters,	 butthe question is not, has it trespassed more or less, but  isthe trespass, whatever it be, such as to show that the	pithand  substance of the impugned Act is not money-lending	 butpromissory   notes  or	banking?   Once	 that  question	  isdetermined  the	 Act falls on one or the other side  of	 theline  and can be seen as valid or invalid according  to	 itstrue content."Then,  there is the decision of the Federal Court  in  LakhiNarayan	 Das  v.  The Province of  Bihar  (1).	 There,	 thequestion related to the validity of Ordinance No. IV of 1949promulgated  by the Governor of Bihar.	It was	attacked  onthe  ground that as a legislation in terms of the  Ordinancewould  have been void, under s. 107(1) of the Government  ofIndia Act, the Ordinance itself was void.  The object of theOrdinance  was	the maintenance of public order,  and  underEntry  I  of List II, that is a topic within  the  exclusivecompetence of the Province.  Then the Ordinance provided forpreventive   detention,	 imposition  of	 collective   fines,control	 of processions and public meetings, and there	werespecial	 provisions for arrest and trial for offences  underthe Act.  The contention was that though the sections of theOrdinance  relating to maintenance of public order might  becovered by Entry I in List II, the sections constituting theoffences  and  providing for search and	 trial	fell  withinItems I and 2 of the Concurrent List, and they were void  asbeing repugnant to the provisions of the Criminal  ProcedureCode.  In rejecting this contention, Mukherjea J. observed:" Thus all the provisions of the Ordinance relate to or	 areconcerned primarily with the maintenance of public order  inthe  Province of Bihar and provide for preventive  detentionand similar other measures in connection with the same.	  Itis true that violation of the provisions of the Ordinance orof  orders passed under it have been made criminal  offencesbut offences against laws with respect to matters  specifiedin List 11(1)  [1949] F.C.R. 693.410would  come within Item 37 of List II itself, and have	beenexpressly excluded from Item I of the Concurrent List.	 Theancillary  matters  laying down the procedure for  trial  ofsuch offences and the conferring of jurisdiction on  certaincourts for that purpose would be covered completely by	Item2  of  List II and it is not necessary	for  the  ProvincialLegislature  to	 invoke	 the  powers under  Item  2  of	 theConcurrent List."He accordingly held that the entire legislation fell  withinEntries	 I  and	 2  of List II,	 and  that  no	question  ofrepugnancy under s. 107(1) arose.  This reasoning  furnishesa complete answer to the contention of the appellants.The  position, then, might thus be summed up When a  law  isimpugned-on the ground. that it is ultra vires the powers ofthe legislature which enacted it, what has to be ascertainedis  the true character of the legislation.  To do that,	 onemust have regard to the enactment as a whole, to its objectsand  to the scope and effect of its provisions.	 If on	suchexamination it is found that the legislation is in substanceone on a matter assigned to the legislature, then it must beheld to be valid in its entirety, even though it might inci-dentally trench on matters which are beyond its	 competence.It  would be quite an erroneous approach to the question  toview  such a statute not as an organic whole, but as a	merecollection  of	sections, then disintegrate it	into  parts,examine	 under what heads of legislation those	parts  wouldseverally fall, and by that process determine what  portionsthereof are intra vires, and what are not.  Now, the  MadrasProhibition  Act is, as already stated, both in form and  insubstance,  a  law relating to	intoxicating  liquors.	 Thepresumptions in s. 4(2) are not presumptions which are to beraised	in  the trial of all criminal cases,  as  are  thoseenacted in the Evidence Act.  They are to be raised only  inthe  trial of offences under s. 4(1) of the Act.   They	 aretherefore  purely  ancillary to the exercise of	 the  legis-lative	power in respect of Entry 31 in List 11.   So  also,the  provisions	 relating to search, seizure and  arrest  insections 28 to 32 are only with reference to offences411committed or suspected to have been committed under the Act.They  have no Operation generally or to offences which	falloutside	 the Act.  Neither the presumptions in section	4(2)nor  the provisions contained in sections 28 to 32 have	 anyoperation apart from offences created by the Act, and  must,in  our	 opinion,  be held to be  wholly  ancillary  to	 thelegislation   under  Entry  31	in  List  II.	The   MadrasProhibition  Act  is thus in its entirety a law	 within	 theexclusive competence of the Provincial Legislature, and	 thequestion of repugnancy under s. 107(1) does not arise.(2)  It is next contended that the presumptions raised in s.4(2)   of  the	Act,  are  repugnant  to  Art.	14  of	 theConstitution,  and  that  the section  must  accordingly  bedeclared  to  have  become void under Art.  13(1).   We	 areunable	to  see how s. 4(2) offends the	 requirement  as  toequality  before law or the equal protection of	 laws.	 Thepresumptions  enacted therein have to be raised against	 allpersons	 against  whom	the  facts  mentioned  therein	 areestablished.   The argument of Mr. N. C. Chatterjee is	thatthe  facts  set out in s. 4(2) on which the  presumption  ofguilt is raised have no reasonable relation to the  offencesthemselves, that for example, possession of liquor can be noevidence  of  possession  of  materials	 or  apparatus	 formanufacture  of liquor under s. 4(1)(g), nor  possession  ofmaterials, apparatus for manufacture of liquor, evidence  ofpossession  or consumption of liquor under s. 4(1)  (a)	 and(j),  and  that	 therefore the impugned	 provision  must  bestruck	down  as  denying equal protection.   He  relied  insupport of this contention on the following observations  ofHolmes J. in William N. McFarland v. American Sugar RefiningCompany (1):" As to the presumptions, of course the legislatures may  goa  good	 way  in raising one or in changing  the  burden  ofproof,	but  there are limits.	It is essential	 that  thereshall  be some rational connection between the	fact  provedand  the ultimate fact presumed, and that the  inference  ofone fact from proof of another shall not be so	unreasonableas to be a purely arbitrary mandate.  Mobile J. & K.C.R. Co.v. Turnipseed(2)."(1)  241 U.S. 79 at 86-87 ; 60 L. Ed. 899, 904.(2)  219 U.S. 35, 43; 55 L. Ed. 78, 80.412The  law on this subject is thus stated by  Rottschaefer  onConstitutional Law, 1939 Edition, at page 835:" The power of a legislature to prescribe rules of  evidenceis   universally   recognised,	but  it	 is   equally	wellestablished  that due process limits it in this matter.	  Itmay  establish	rebuttable presumptions only if there  is  arational  connection  between  what is proved  and  what  ispermitted to be inferred therefrom."The  law would thus appear to be based on the  due  ,processclause,	 and  it is extremely doubtful whether it  can	haveapplication  under  our Constitution.  But  a  reference  toAmerican authorities clearly shows that the presumptions  ofthe kind enacted in s. 4 (2) have been upheld as  reasonableand  not hit by the due process or equal protection  clause.In Albert J. Adams v. People of the State of New York (1), alaw  of New York had made it an (offence to be knowingly  inpossession of gambling instruments, and enacted further thatpossession  of such instruments was presumptive evidence  ofknowledge.  It is thus in terms similar to s. 4(1)(a) of theAct,  which  makes  it an offence to  be  in  possession  ofliquor, and to s. 4(2) which raises a rebuttable presumptionof guilt under s. 4(1)(a).  In rejecting the contention thatthe  presumption was a violation of the due process  clause,the Court observed:"  We  fail  to perceive any force in  this  argument.	 Thepolicy	slips are property of an unusual character, and	 notlikely, particularly in large quantities, to be found in thepossession   of	 innocent  parties.   Like  other   gamblingparaphernalia,	their  possession  indicates  their  use  orintended  use,	and may well raise  some  inference  againsttheir possessor in the absence of explanation.	Such is	 theeffect	of  this statute.  Innocent persons  would  have  notrouble	 in explaining the possession of these tickets,	 andin  any event the possession is only prima  facie  evidence,and the party is permitted to produce such testimony as willshow  the  truth concerning the -possession  of	 the  slips.Furthermore, it is within the established power of the stateto  prescribe  the evidence which is to be received  in	 thecourts of its own government."(1)  192 U.S. 585; 48 L. Ed. 575.			    413In Robert Hawes v. State of Georgia (1), the question  arosewith  reference to a statute of the State of Georgia,  whichhad made it an offence to knowingly permit persons to locatein  premises  apparatus	 for  distilling  and  manufacturingprohibited liquors.  It also enacted a presumption that whensuch  apparatus	 was  found  in	 a  place,  the	 person	  inoccupation  thereof  shall  be presumed	 to  have  knowinglypermitted  the location of the apparatus.  The question	 waswhether	 this presumption was repugnant to the	due  processclause.	 In holding that it was not, the Court observed:" Distilling spirits is not an ordinary incident of a  farm,and,  in  a  prohibition state, has  illicit  character	 andpurpose,  and certainly is not so silent and obscure in	 usethat  one  who rented a farm upon which it was or  had	beenconducted would probably be ignorant of it. On the contrary,it  may	 be  presumed that one on such a farm,	or  one	 whooccupies  it,  will know what there is upon it.	 It  is	 not'arbitrary  for	 the state to act upon the  presumption	 anderect  it  into evidence of knowledge;. not  peremptory,  ofcourse, but subject to explanation, and affording the  meansof explanation."It  is therefore clear that even on the application  of	 thedue  process clause, the presumptions laid down in  s.	4(2)cannot	be struck down as unconstitutional.  We	 should	 addthat the construction which the appellants seek to put on s.4  (2)	that a person in possession of liquor  could,  underthat section, be presumed to have committed an offence unders.  4(1)  (g)  or  that a person who  is  in  possession  ofmaterials, implement or apparatus could be presumed to	havecommitted  offences  under  s.	4 (1) (a)  and	(j)  is	 notcorrect.  In our opinion, the matters mentioned in s. 4	 (2)should	be read distributively in relation to  the  offencesmentioned in s. 4(1).  Possession of liquor, for example, isan offence under s. 4(1) (a).  The presumption in s. 4(2) isthat if it is found in the possession of a person, he shouldbe presumed to have committed the offence under s.  4(1)(a),unless	he could give satisfactory explanation therefor,  asfor  example,  that it must have been foisted in  the  placewithout his knowledge.	Likewise, it would be an(1)  258 U.S. 1 ; 66 L. Ed. 431.414offence	 under s. 4(1)(g) to be in possession of  materials,still, implement or apparatus whatsoever for the tapping  oftoddy or the manufacture of liquor.  Under s. 4(2)(a), if  aperson	is found to be in possession of materials  or  otherthings mentioned in the sub-section, there is a	 presumptionthat he has committed an offence under s. 4(1)(g), but it isopen  to  him  to  account  satisfactorily  therefor.	 Thecontention, therefore, that there is no reasonable  relationbetween the presumption and the offence is, in our  opinion,based on a misreading of the section.Both  the  contentions	urged on behalf	 of  the  appellantshaving failed, these appeals are dismissed.Appeals dismissed.