PETITIONER:K.C. MATHEW AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF TRAVANCORE-COCHIN.DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/12/1955BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANAIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR  241		  1955 SCR  (2)1057ACT:Sessions  Trial-Charge-Different offences against  differentaccused lumped together-Legality-Examination of the  accusedneither full nor clear-Failure to raise objection at earlierstages-Withholding  by	the accused of	facts  within  theirspecial knowledge-Inference-Code of Criminal Procedure	(ActV  of  1898), ss. 225, 342, 537-Indian Penal  Code  (XLV  of1860), ss. 302, 149.HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 were  put up for trial	 along	with  othersbefore	the Court of Sessions.	The charge against them	 setout  the fact that they formed an unlawful assembly,  statedthe common object specifying in detail the part each accusedhad  played  and then gave a list of ten  sections  of	the.Travancore Penal Code including sections which correspond tos.  302	 of  the Indian Penal Code read with  s.  149.	 TheSessions Judge acquitted them under s. 302 read with s.	 149but convicted them on the lesser charges.  They appealed  tothe  High  Court  against their convictions  and  the  Stateappealed against their acquittals under s. 302 read with  s.149.  The High Court dismissed their appeals and allowed theappeals against their acquittals and sentenced each of	themto  transportation  for	 life.	It was	contended  on  theirbehalf	that the charge was not in accordance with  law	 andtheir  examinations  under s. 342 of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure were defective and prejudiced them.Held,  that  the  charge  framed was a	legal  one  and	 wasexpressly  covered  by	s.  225	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure.   Each of the accused was apprised of  the  factsalleged	 against  him  and  he could  easily  pick  out	 therelevant sections under which he was charged.  There  could,therefore, be no prejudice to any one of them.Held  further,	that  as  no  objection	 was  taken  to	 thedefective  examination under s. 342 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure  at  an earlier stage although  the  accused	wererepresented  by counsel, and as the petition of	 appeal	 didnot set out the questions the court should have put to	themand  the answers they would have given and as  they  therebywithheld  from	the  court facts  which	 were  within  theirspecial knowledge, the court was entitled to draw an adverseconclusion against them and hold that no prejudice had	beencaused to them.That when an accused person is not properly questioned unders.  342	 so as to enable him to	 explain  the  circumstancesappearing in the evidence against him he is entitled to	 askthe appellate Court, which is the ultimate court of fact, toplace him in the same position1058he would have been in if he had been properly questioned andto take the explanation he would have given, if he had	beenasked, into consideration when weighing the evidence in justthe same way as the court would have done if the explanationhad been there all along.  But he cannot ask to be placed ina  better position than he would have been in if  the  courthad   done  its	 duty  from  the  start.   Therefore,	whencomplaining  of prejudice he must set out the  questions  heshould	have  been asked and indicate the answers  he  wouldhave given.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 97  of1953.Appeal under Article 134(1)(c) of the Constitution from	 thejudgment  and  order  dated  the  15th	June  1953  of	 theTravancore-Cochin  High Court in Criminal Appeals  Nos.	 54,55, 56, 58 and 79 of 1952.S.   Mohan  Kumaramangalam  and	 S.  Subramaniam,  for	 theappellants.Sardar Bahadur, for the respondent.1955.  December 15.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyBOSE  J.-This  is  a case of rioting  in  which	 two  policeconstables were killed.	 Thirty one persons were put up	 fortrial.	 The learned Sessions Judge acquitted twenty one  ofthem  on all the charges and acquitted the remaining ten  ofthe  most serious charge of all, namely the offence  fallingunder  the  sections  of the  Travancore  Penal	 Code  whichcorrespond to section 302 of the Indian Penal Code read withsection	 149.	But  she convicted them on  several  of	 thelesser	charges	 and imposed sentences ranging from  two  tofive  years  on each count and directed that  the  sentencesshould run consecutively except in the cases of accused 5 to8 and 18.  She sentenced each of them on only one count	 andso there was only one sentence.The  convicts  appealed to the High Court and the  State  ofTravancore-Cochin  also appealed against the  acquittals  onthe murder-cum-rioting count.The High Court dismissed the appeals made by the ten accusedand allowed the appeals ,against the acquittals and  imposedthe lesser sentence1059of  transportation  in	each case.  These  ten	accused	 nowappeal here.The accused are said to be communists.	Two of them,  namelynumbers	 30  and 31, were arrested on 27-2-1950 at  about  IP.m. and were confined in the Edappilly police lock up.	 Theprosecution case is that the other 29 accused entered into aconspiracy  to	release their comrades and in  pursuance  ofthat conspiracy attacked the police station at about 2	A.M.on  the	 28th armed with deadly weapons	 such  as  choppers,knives,	 bamboo and other sticks and a dagger.	 Two  policeconstables, Mathew and Velayudhan, were killed in the courseof the raid.The  first point taken before us is that the charge  is	 notaccording to law and has prejudiced the appellants in  theirdefence.   The complaint on this score is that each  accusedhas not been told separately what offences he is being triedfor.  They have all been lumped together as follows:"The  aforesaid offences having been proved by the  evidenceadduced	 by  the  prosecution, you  the	 accused  1-29	havecommitted		 offences		  punishableunder  .................................."and then follow	 a string of ten sections of the  TravancorePenal Code.We  are satisfied that the charge neither caused, nor  couldhave caused, prejudice.	 The body of the charge set out	 thefact  that the accused 1-29 formed an unlawful assembly	 andstated	the common object; and then the charge specified  indetail	the  part  that each accused  had  played.   In	 thecircumstances,	each accused was in a position to know	justwhat  was  charged against him because once  the  facts	 areenumerated  the	 law  that applies to  them  can  easily  beascertained;  and  in  this particular case it	was  just  amatter	of picking out the relevant sections from among	 theten mentioned.	There is nothing in this objection;  section225  of	 the Criminal Procedure Code expressly	covers	thiskind of case.The  next argument was that the examination of each  accusedunder  section	342  of	 the  Criminal	Procedure  Code	 wasdefective and that that caused pre-1060judice.	 We agree that the examination was not as full or asclear  as it should have been but we are not satisfied	thatthere was any prejudice.It  is	to be noted that the question of prejudice  was	 notraised	in either of the Courts below nor was it  raised  inthe  grounds of appeal to this Court.  The point  was  takenfor the first time in the arguments before us and even therecounsel was unable to say that his clients had in fact	beenprejudiced-,  all  he  could  urge  was	 that  there  was  apossibility of prejudice.We  agree  that the omission to take the  objection  in	 thegrounds of appeal is not necessarily fatal; everything	mustdepend	on  the	 facts of the case; but the  fact  that	 theobjection was not taken at an earlier stage, if it could andshould	have,  been taken, is a material  circumstance	thatwill   necessarily   weigh  heavily  against   the   accusedparticularly  when  he	has  been  represented	by   counselthroughout.  The Explanation to section 537 of the  CriminalProcedure Code expressly requires the Court to"have  regard  to the fact whether the objection  could	 andshould	have  been  raised  at	an  earlier  stage  in	 theproceedings".Another strong circumstance is this: the petition for appealdoes  not  set	out the questions  that,  according  to	 theappellants, they should have been asked nor does it indicatethe  answers  that they would have given if  they  had	beenasked.	  Again,  though  that	is  not	 necessarily   fatalordinarily  it will be very difficult to sustain a  plea  ofprejudice  unless  the	Court is told just  where  the	shoepinches.   It  is  true that in	 certain  exceptional  casesprejudice,  or a reasonable likelihood of prejudice, may  beso  patent  on the face of the facts that  nothing  more  isneeded;	 but that class of case must be exceptional.   Afterall,  the only person who can really tell us whether he	 wasin  fact  prejudiced is the accused; and if  there  is	realprejudice he can at once state the facts and leave the Courtto  judge their worth.	But if the attitude of the  accused,whether in person or through the mouth of his counsel, is:  "Idon't know what I would have said.  I still have,1061to  think that up.  But I might have said this, that or	 theother",	 then there will ordinarily be little difficulty  inconcluding  that  there neither was, nor  could	 have  been,prejudice.   Here,  as elsewhere, the Court is	entitled  toconclude  that	a person who  deliberately  withholds  factswithin	his special knowledge and refuses to give the  Courtthat  assistance which is its right and due, has nothing  ofvalue  which  he can disclose and that if  he  did  discloseanything  that	would at once expose the hollowness  of	 hiscause.The purpose of section 342 is set out in its opening words-"for  the  purpose of enabling the accused  to	explain	 anycircumstances appearing in the evidence against him".If  the	 accused  is not afforded that	opportunity,  be  isentitled to ask the appellate Court to place him in the sameposition  as  he would have been in had he been	 asked.	  Inother  words,  he is entitled to ask  the  appellate  Court,which is the ultimate Court of fact, to take the explanationthat   he  would  have	given  in  the	first	Court	intoconsideration  when weighing the evidence in just  the	sameway  as it would have done if it had been there	 all  along.But if he does not ask this in the last Court of fact he  isin  little better position when the case comes here than  bewould be in had he, say, omitted to call, in his defence,  awitness who, he says, would have deposed in his favour.	  Invery  exceptional cases be might be allowed to call  such  awitness	 even  at such a stage, but if he does not  ask	 forthat  when his case is under appeal he would  normally	havebut slender hope of succeeding here.  It is true he is in  astronger  position when section 342 is in  question  becausethe  section places a solemn and serious duty on the  Court,and  the accused can very rightly and properly	complain  ifthe  Court  fails to do its duty; but when all is  said	 anddone, he cannot claim to be placed in a better position thanhe  would have been in bad the Court discharged its duty  atthe outset.  Therefore, all he is entitled to say on  appealis,  "I	 was not asked to explain this matter,	Here  is  myexplanation; this is1062what I would have said: please consider it".  But if he doesnot  take  up  that position- at  the  appellate  stage	 andcomplains  of  prejudice  for  the  first  time	 here,	 theinference  is  strong that the plea is an  afterthought	 andthat there was no real prejudice.However,  as the true meaning of "prejudice" in section	 537and  other  sections  of  the  Code  is	 not  yet   properlyappreciated, probably for want of an authoritative  decisionby this Court, we invited counsel to tell us what  questionshis  clients  should  have been asked and  at  any  rate  toindicate what, according to him, they might reasonably	havesaid.  His main grievance on this score is that none of	 theappellants  has	 been asked about the common object  and  hesaid  it is obvious that most of them could very  reasonablyhave said that they bad no idea that it was murder and	thatthey  did  not	even know that any of  the  members  of	 theassembly carried lethal weapons.It  is necessary at this stage to explain that	both  courtsfind that there was an unlawful assembly and that the policestation at Edappilly was raided and that arms and ammunitionand  some  of the station records were carried away  by	 theraiders; also that two of the police constables who were  onsentry	duty  were murdered.  The only point on	 which	theydiffer is about the common object.The charge set out that the common object was to rescue	 the30th  and 31st accused by force and to murder the  policemenon duty as well as to loot the records, arms and  ammunitionof  the police station.	 The learned Sessions  Judge  found,mainly	 because  of  a	 concession  made  by	the   PublicProsecutor,  that  the	common object could  not  be  placedhigher than that of rescue despite the fact that some of themembers were armed with deadly weapons; accordingly she (forthe  learned  Sessions Judge was a lady) acquitted  all	 theaccused of the charge under section 302 of the Indian  PenalCode   read   with  section  149,  or	rather	 under	 thecorresponding provisions of the Travancore Penal Code.The State appealed against these acquittals and1063the High Court thereupon convicted on the  murdercum-riotingcharge	and imposed the lesser sentence.  The convicts	alsoappealed but their appeals were dismissed. In  view  of  the  admission made  by	the  learned  PublicProsecutor  we do not think the High Court was justified  inholding	 that the assembly bad the common object  to  murderbut  we do not think that that makes any difference  to	 theresult.Even  if  it be assumed that the common object was  only  torescue	the  two  accused who were in-the  lock	 up,  it  isobvious	 that  the  use of violence  was  implicit  in	thatobject.	 People do not gather together at the dead of  nightarmed  with  crackers  and choppers  and  sticks  to  rescuepersons who are guarded by armed police without intending touse  violence  in order to overcome the	 resistance  of	 theguards; and a person would have to be very naive and simple-minded	if  he did not realise that the sentries  posted  toguard prisoners at night are fully armed and are expected touse  their arms should the need arise; and he would have  tobe a moron in intelligence if be did not know that murder ofthe  armed  guards would be a likely consequence in  such  araid;  and  what holds good for murder also holds  good	 forlooting	 in  general.  Now section 149 applies not  only  tooffences  actually committed in pursuance of the common	 ob-ject but also to offences that members of the assembly	knoware  likely to be committed.  It would be impossible on	 thefacts of this case to hold that the members of the  assemblydid  not  know	that murder was likely to  be  committed  inpursuance of a common object of that kind by an assembly  aslarge  as the one we have there.  Accordingly, even  if	 thecommon object be not placed as high as murder the convictionon  the	 murder-cum-riotiNg charge was	fully  justified.,,,This answers the main ground of appeal.But  to	 go back to the argument about section	342  of	 theCriminal Procedure Code.  What we have to assess here is theexplanation   which  counsel  says  each   appellant   couldreasonably  have  given in the trial Court if  he  had	beenasked for one, namely that1064he  did	 not know that any member of  the  assembly  carriedlethal	weapons and that murder was likely to  result.	 Theanswer to that is plain.  There is nothing to indicate	thatthe   appellants   are	 deficient   in	  intelligence	 andunderstanding, and if they are judged by the standard of menof  reasonable	intelligence,  as  they	 must  be,  then  anexplanation  of this kind cannot be believed.  Men who	bandthemselves  together to rescue persons locked behind  prisonbars  and guarded by armed police do not set out  with	barehands  and  doves of peace; of course, they  arm  themselveswith  implements that are strong enough to break open  locksand  break down doors and iron bars and it is  obvious	thatimplements  of	this  kind can be used	with  deadly  effectshould	the  need  and the desire to use them  in  that	 wayarise.	It hardly matters whether each member knew the exactnature of the implements, namely that some had choppers	 andsome  sticks.  It is enough that they knew that	 instrumentsthat could be used as deadly weapons would necessarily	haveto  be carried if the purpose underlying the  common  objectwas  to	 be  achieved.	Therefore, even if  the	 answer	 nowsuggested  to us bad been given in the trial Court it  wouldhave made no difference to the result.Turning next to the first accused, counsel said that he	 wasnot  asked  about identification in  his  examination  undersection	 342.	But that is not correct.  The  question	 putwas-"P.Ws.	1  and	4  say	that  they  had	 seen  you,  beatingconstables Mathew and Velayudhan, etc."The point about identification is implicit in this  questionand we are satisfied that this appellant understood what thequestion  imported  because the cross-examination  of  thesewitnesses  discloses  that  the	 question  of  identity	 waspresent	 to the mind of the cross-examiner; he	specificallyquestioned each witness about the matter.Next,  it  was said that no question was put  to  the  firstaccused about any robbery, but we need not examine this	 anyfurther because the matter becomes academic once the murder-cum-riot conviction is up-1065held  and once we make the sentences concurrent	 instead  ofconsecutive as we intend to do.The arguments on this point about the rest of the appellantsexcept the seventh accused, followed the same pattern and weneed not examine them separately.,As regards the seventh accused, the only point of  substancein his case is that he was not asked to explain his presenceat  Kadiparambu	 where	the  agreement	to  rescue  and	 theplanning  are  said to have taken shape. Counsel  said	thatthis accused lives there, so the mere fact that he was	seenamong a crowd that had gathered there in the day time  couldnot  be regarded as a circumstance of suspicion. That  wouldhave  had  force had it not been for the fact  that  he	 wasagain seen at the police station at 2A.M. and was identifiedas one of the rioters who took an active part in the raid.We  have gone into the question of possible prejudice  undersection	 342  in the way we have because, as we	 have  said,appellants  do	not appear to appreciate what  is  necessarywhen  this kind of plea is raised.  We do not intend to	 laydown any hard and fast rule but we do wish to emphasise thatwhat  we have done in this case is not to be regarded  as  aprecedent  and	that  in  future  it  will  be	increasinglydifficult  to  induce this Court to look into  questions  ofprejudice if the requisite material is not placed before  itand  if	 appellants  deliberately withhold  from  the  Courtassistance  which  it  is  in  their  power  to	 render;  aninference adverse to them must be expected if that  attitudeis adopted.Counsel	 then  tried  to  attack  the  credibility  of	 thewitnesses and the correctness of the findings generally but,following  our usual practice, we decline to interfere	withconcurrent  findings of fact where there is  ample  evidencewhich, if believed, can be used in support of the  findings.That  is  the  position	 here.	The  only  ground  on  whichinterference  is  called  for is where	the  sentences	weredirected to run consecutively.	The High Court confirmed theconvictions  and  sentences passed by the  learned  SessionsJudge1066but  when it allowed the appeal by the State and passed	 thelesser	sentence it said that "the sentences passed on	eachaccused will run concurrently".	 We are not sure whether thelearned	 Judges	 meant that the sentences  imposed  by	themshould	run  concurrently with the others  or  whether	theymeant  to  allow  the appeal to that extent.,  In  order  toremove	all  doubts, we allow the appeal to  the  extent  ofdirecting  that the sentences imposed on each accused  shallrun  concurrently and not consecutively.  Except  for  that,the appeal is dismissed.