PETITIONER:BHAGWAN SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAMESHWAR PRASAD SASTRI & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/04/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  876		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 535ACT:Election Dispute-Disqualification for membership-Election toState  Legislature-Interest  in	 contracts-Contract  enteredinto  as Mukhiya of Panchayat-Representation of	 the  PeopleAct, 1951 (43 Of 1951), ss. 7(d), 81, 100(1)(a).HEADNOTE:The election of the appellant as a member of the Bihar StateAssembly was challenged under s. 7(d) of the  Representationof the People Act, 951, by the first respondent who was alsoa  candidate for election for the same constituency, on	 theground that at the date of the nomination the appellant	 hadan  interest in contracts for execution of works  undertakenby  the Bihar Government, and that his nomination  had	beenimproperly  accepted.  The appellant's plea inter  alia	 wasthat  he  had executed the contracts not in  his  individualcapacity  but  as the Mukhiya of the Village  Panchayat	 andtherefore the disqualification imposed by s. 7(d) of the Actcould not be invoked against him.  The contracts in questionrelated to community projects undertaken in pursuance of theSecond	Five  Year  Plan,  under  which	 the  execution	  ofdifferent works adopted under the plan was to be by  popularlocal agencies like Village Panchayats.	 The contracts	wereall in the prescribed form and the appellant, at the com-536mencement  of the contract, described himself by  his  name,stating	 that he belonged to the village.  The	preamble  tothe  contract showed that the appellant undertook  to  carryout the construction of the development project under  localworks  programme mentioned in the contract as  per  estimateattached  thereto,  that  he agreed  to	 execute  the  work.according  to  and  subject  to	 the  terms  and  conditionscontained therein and that he undertook to contribute 50% ofthe cost in cash and labour.  At the end of the contract  hesigned as Mukhiya, giving his address as the Gram Panchayat.The  Election Tribunal found in favour of the appellant	 anddismissed  the election petition, but, on appeal,  the	HighCourt  took  the  view	(1)  that  the	description  of	 theappellant  given  by  him at the time  when  he	 signed	 thecontracts  was	not  a term of the contract  and  could	 nottherefore support his plea that he had executed the contractas  Mukhiya of the Panchayat, and (2) that the fact that  heundertook liability to execute the contracts as required andto  become  liable for payment of any fine  imposed  by	 thelocal  government  officer  in case of	his  default  showedobligations  of a personal character inconsistent  with	 hisplea.Held, that, on a proper construction of the contracts takinginto  account  all the terms and conditions as a  whole	 andconsidering  them  in  the light of the	 background  of	 theSecond	Five  Year  Plan,  when	 the  appellant	 signed	 thecontracts  as the Mukhiya of the Village Panchayat he  actedas its agent and not as an individual acting in his personalcapacity.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 139 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 8, 1959, of the Patna High Court in Election  AppealNo.  I of 1958, arising out of the judgment and order  datedNovember  30,  1957,  of the Election  Tribunal,  Patna,  inElection Petition No. 353 of 1957.B.   K. P. Sinha and D. P. Singh, for the appellant.G. C.Mathur and Dipak D. Choudhri, for respondent No. 1.R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 3.1959.  April 14.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal by special leave arises	fromthe'  election	petition filed by respondent I (No.  353  of1957) in which he claimed a declaration that the election ofthe appellant as a member of the537Bihar  Legislative  Assembly Maner  Constituency  should  bedeclared  to be void.  In the last General Election for	 thesaid  constituency  which was held in  February-March  1957,there were three candidates, the appellant, respondent I andrespondent 2. The last date for filing nomination papers  atthe  said  election was January 29, 1957; the  'said  paperswere  scrutinised  on February 1, 1957.	  Respondent  I	 hadchallenged the validity of the appellant's nomination  paperat the said scrutiny but the returning officer had overruledthe  objection raised by respondent I and had  accepted	 thenomination  paper of the appellant along with 'those of	 thetwo other candidates.  After the counting of votes was	doneon March 3, 1957, the appellant was declared duly elected atthe  election inasmuch as he had got 9,826 votes while	res-pondents  I and 2 had got 7,526 and 49	votes  respectively.Thereupon respondent I filed his election petition under  s.81   of	  the  Representation  of  the	People	 Act,	1951(hereinafter called the Act).In his petition respondent 1 challenged the election of	 theappellant on several grounds all of which were	controvertedby  the	 appellant.  On the allegations of the	parties	 thetribunal  had  framed  several issues and  parties  had	 ledevidence on them.  At the stage of arguments, however,	onlya  few issues were pressed by respondent I and all  of	themwere  found against him and in favour of the appellant.	  Inthe  result the tribunal dismissed the election petition  onNovember 30, 1957.Against	 the  said  decision of the  tribunal  respondent  Ipreferred  an  appeal  in the High Court  of  Judicature  atPatna;	and in his appeal he pressed only issue No. 1.	Thisissue was whether the nomination of the appellant was hit bythe provision of s. 7(d) of the Act and as such whether	 thesaid nomination had been improperly accepted.  On this issuethe  tribunal had found in favour of the appellant  but	 theHigh  Court reversed the said finding and accepted the	pleaof respondent 1. As a result of this finding the High  Courtallowed the appeal preferred by respondent I and68538declared  on  January  8, 1959, that  the  election  of	 theappellant was void under s. 100(1)(a) of the Act.The   validity	of  the	 appellant's  nomination  has	beenchallenged  under s. 7(d) of the Act on the ground  that  atthe date of the nomination he had an interest in a  contractfor   the  execution  of  works	 undertaken  by	 the   BiharGovernment.   There  is	 no  doubt  that  if  a	 person	  isinterested  in	a  contract for the execution  of  any	workundertaken by the appropriate Government he is	disqualifiedfor  membership of the State Legislature in  question.	 Theappellant, however, denied that the disqualification imposedby S. 7(d) could be invoked against him.  His case was	thatthe  contracts	in question had not been undertaken  by	 theBihar Government but they bad been undertaken by the CentralGovernment; and he also urged that he had not taken the saidcontracts individually in his personal capacity, but as	 theMukhiya of the Jeorakhan Tola Gram Panchayat.  On both theseissues	the  Election  Tribunal	 and  the  High	 Court	havediffered;  and it is the said two issues that arise for	 ourdecision  in  the present appeal.  It is clear that  if	 theappellant  succeeds in showing that he had entered into	 theimpugned  contracts  not individually but on behalf  of	 thePanchayat  of  which  he was the Mukhiya  it  would  be	 un-necessary to consider whether the works covered by the	saidcontracts  had been undertaken by the Government  of  Bihar.Let us therefore first consider that point.The  impugned contracts are five in number.  They  were	 forthe  execution	of  works  under  local	 development   worksprogramme   envisaged  under  the  Second  Five	 Year	Planformulated by the Government of India.	These contracts	 areevidenced  by  five documents, Exs. 16-A, B, C, D &  E.	 Thefirst  is  for the construction of  Beyapore-Jeorakhan	TolaRoad, the second for the construction of the Beyapore M.  E.School,	 the third for the construction of a  Dispensary  atJeorakhan Tola, the fourth for the construction of the	GramPanchayat  building, and the last for the construction of  awell  at the said village.  It is admitted by the  appellantthat  these contracts had not been completed at the time  ofhis nomination.539In  considering	 the appellant's plea that he  had  executedthese contracts as a Mukhiya of the Village Panchayat of hisvillage,  it  would  be	 necessary  to	bear  in  mind	 thebackground  of the scheme in pursuance of which these  workswere undertaken.  The Second Five Year Plan published by thePlanning  Commission  in 1956 shows that the  programme	 of'starting  these'  works	 was treated as a part	of  the	 co-operative   movement  and  the	Commission   had   thereforerecommended  that  the	States were to	sponsor	 and  assistactively  in  the Organisation and  development	 of  VillagePanchayats  which  was	an  important  constituent  of	 theprogramme of fostering corporate life in the rural areas  asit  would promote among the rural community active  interestin  the development programmes of the villages.	 The  objectof  this  programme  which would operate in  areas  not	 yetreached	 by  the National Extension Service  was  to  enablevillage	 communities  to undertake works  of  local  benefitmainly with their own labour.  The Commission realised	thatthe  resources of all the States taken together	 would	fallfar  short  of	the  requirements of this  Plan	 and  so  itrecommended large transfers of resources from the Centre  tothe  States.   In  this connection  the	 conclusion  of	 theCommission was that out of Rs. 200 chores sanctioned for theyear 1957-58, 12 cores would be required for the Centre	 forschemes	 undertaken or directly sponsored by  the  CommunityProject	 Administration and 180 crores were to form part  ofthe  balance  for the States.  Thus it is obvious  that	 thebasic idea underlying the Plan was to evoke popular responseto  the	 community projects undertaken in pursuance  of	 thePlan  and to leave the execution of different works  adoptedunder  the  Plan to be fulfilled by popular  local  agencieslike Village Panchayats.This policy was emphasised by the Secretary of the  PlanningCommission  in his communication to all	 State	Governments,No.  PC/Pub/52/53  dated  August  11,  1953  (H.  1).	Thiscommunication  set  out the seven categories of	 work  whichwere most suitable for assistance and it said that the localcontribution  in  cash or kind or through  voluntary  labourtogether540with  any contribution that the State Government or a  localbody might make should be a minimum of 50% of the total costof each work.  The intention was to spread the benefit	overas  wide  an area and to as many people	 as  possible.	 TheState Governments were accordingly requested to arrange	 fora detailed scrutiny of the schemes before they were acceptedand for making adequate provisions providing for their	pro-per  execution.	  They	were also  required  to	 nominate  aliaison officer for each district or other suitable unit forthe  purpose of checking the execution of the works and	 formaintenance of such initial accounts as might be  necessary.This communication makes detailed provisions about financingand  accounting procedures to be followed and  required	 theState  Governments  to make progress reports  from  time  totime.It  appears that the Government of India was aware that	 theDistrict  Boards  whose	 primary responsibility	 it  was  tosponsor	 these	undertakings would find the  project  beyondtheir	financial   resources  and  so	 it   accepted	 therecommendation of the Planning Commission to contribute	 50%of the cost of each of the schemes on the condition that theremaining  half had to be found by the District Board or  bythe  public  to be benefited by it in the form	of  cash  orvoluntary labour.The five impugned contracts related to community projects ofthe  kind envisaged by this programme.	By its letter  datedFebruary  27, 1954 (H. 2) the Bihar Government	had  advisedall  the  District Local Boards to assist the  execution  ofsuch projects and to afford all facilities to and co-operatewith   the  district  officers	in  the	 execution  of	 theprogrammes undertaken by these projects without charging anyremuneration for the same.  The idea clearly was that if theVillage	 Panchayats sponsored works undertaken	under  theseprogrammes they should encourage people to contribute labourand  even  money.   The	 result	 would	be  that  the  worksundertaken  would benefit the community at large and if	 anysaving was made in executing the contract it would enure forthe  benefit  of the village Panchayats	 that  were  usuallyexpected to be the sponsoring units.541It  is	in  the light of this background  that	we  have  toconsider the question whether the contracts in question	 hadbeen executed by the appellant in his individual capacity ascontended by respondent I or in his capacity as the  Mukhiyaof the Village Panchayat as urged by the appellant.The four contracts evidenced by Exs. 16A, C, D and E are allsimilarly executed whereas contract 16-B which is in respectof the construction of the Beyapore M. E. School is somewhatdifferently  worded.   With regard to this  latter  contractboth  the  Election Tribunal and the High Court	 are  agreedthat it had been executed by the appellant as the  Secretaryof  the Beyapore Madhyamik Vidyalaya and that in  this	con-tract  the  appellant was not  personally  interested.	 TheElection Tribunal took the view that the other contracts aresubstantially  of the same character whereas the High  Courthas  held  that	 they are entirely different  and  that	 theappellant has personally executed them.	 The question  whichwe have now to decide is whether this view of the High Courtis right.We  would  take Ex. 16-A as typical of	the  remaining	fourcontracts.   The  material terms of this contract are  8  innumber	and  they are all in the prescribed  form.   At	 thecommencement  of  the contract the appellant  has  describedhimself by his name and he has stated that he belongs to thevillage	 of  Jeorakhan	Tola  and  that	 his  profession  iscultivation.   The preamble to the contract shows  that	 theappellant  undertook  to carry out the construction  of	 thedevelopment project under local works programme mentioned inthe contract as per estimate attached thereto and he  agreedto  execute the work according to and subject to  the  termsand  conditions contained therein, and he also undertook  tocontribute  50% of the cost in cash and labour.	 At the	 endthe  appellant	has  signed as Mukhiya	and  has  given	 hisaddress	 as Jeorakhan Tola Gram Panchayat.  The	 High  Courttook the view that the description of the appellant given byhim  at the time when he signed the contract was not a	termof  the	 contract and could not therefore support  his	pleathat he had executed the contract as Mukhiya of542the  Panchayat.	  It is on this ground that the	 High  Courtdistinguished this and the other three allied contracts fromthe school contract, Ex. 16-B.	In this latter contract	 theappellant has described himself as the Secretary,  MadhyamikVidyalaya,  both at the commencement of the document and  atthe end where the appellant has signed.	 In our opinion, thedistinction  made by the High Court between the two sets  ofcontracts  is not valid.  We do not see any reason  to	takethe  view that the description given by the appellant  abouthis  status while he signed the contract is no part  of	 thecontract  itself.   Incidentally  we may  observe  that	 thecontract  is accepted by the officer who signs as the S.  D.O.,  Dinapore.	The designation of the officer given by	 himwhile  signing the acceptance of the contract indicates	 thecharacter  in which the officer has accepted  the  contract.Similarly  the description given by the appellant about	 hisstatus	and character when he signed the contract should  betaken  to  denote  the character in which  he  executed	 thecontract.The  High Court also thought that cls. 4 and 7 by which	 theappellant  undertook  liability to execute the	contract  asrequired  and  to  become liable for  payment  of  any	fineimposed	  by  the  local  government  officer  in  case	  ofhis  default clearly showed obligations of a  personal	typewhich  were inconsistent with his plea that he	had  enteredinto the contract as the Mukhiya of the Panchayat.  We thinkthat  this  argument  has no force.  If the  nature  of	 theliability  undertaken  by  these  two  clauses	 necessarilyinvolves  the conclusion that the execution of the  contractmust be by an individual person, then it is significant thatthe  same two clauses occur in the school contract  and	 yetthe  High  Court has held that the said	 contract  has	beenexecuted by the appellant not in his individual capacity butas the Secretary of the Madhyamik Vidvalava.  Therefore	 toomuch  reliance	cannot be placed upon these two	 clauses  tosupport the view that the contract has been executed by	 theappellant personally.Besides, the High Court has not properly considered the termof the contract by which the contracting543party  undertakes to contribute 50% of the cost of the	workin  cash or labour.  In other words, the  contracting  partybecomes	 a  sponsoring agent of the contract and  agrees  toundertake  50%	of  its	 cost.	 It  is	 very  difficult  toappreciate the suggestion that the appellant personally	 andin his individual character agreed to contribute 50% of	 thecost  in cash or labour.  In' ordinary course a	 person	 whoundertakes to carry out a building contract expects to	makeprofit	and would never agree to contribute 50% of the	costof  the	 contemplated work.  This clause  clearly  indicatesthat  the sponsoring of the contract was really done by	 theVillage	 Panchayat which agreed through its Mukhiya that  itwould  contribute  50%	of the cost either  in	cash  or  inlabour.	  Consistently with the general policy of  Plan	 theVillage	 Panchayat became a sponsoring agent and  hoped	 andexpected  to obtain popular response from the villagers	 whowould  contribute their labour and thus make up the  50%  ofthe  cost of the intended work.	 Therefore, in our  opinion,if  the contract in question is considered in the  light  ofthe  background of the Plan of which it forms one item,	 andall  its conditions are taken into account  together,  therecan  be	 no doubt that the appellant as the Mukhiya  of	 theVillage	 Panchayat  acted as its agent when  he	 signed	 thecontract.,  and not as an individual acting in his  personalcapacity.This position is also corroborated by the record kept by theVillage	 Panchayat  in	respect of  these  contracts.	Thisrecord	consists  of  the  several  proceedings	 before	 theVillage	 Panchayat,  the  budgets  adopted  by	it  and	 theresolutions  passed  by it from time to time in	 respect  ofthese  contracts.  It had been alleged by respondent 1	thatthe whole of this record had been fabricated for the purposeof the present proceedings.  The Election Tribunal has	madea  definite finding against respondent I on this point.	  Ithas considered the oral evidence given by the appellant	 andother witnesses in proving the said record.  It has examinedthe  entries themselves on their merits and has	 taken	intoaccount the fact that some of the exhibits showed that	theyhad been signed and544approved  by  the District Panchayat Officer  from  time  totime.	 The  tribunal,	 therefore,  thought  that  it	 wasimpossible to believe that all persons who purported to signthe record had helped the appellant to manufacture it simplybecause	 the appellant was the Mukhiya of the village.	 Thejudgment of the High Court shows that it was not prepared toreverse	 this  finding	in terms.   It	has,  however,	madecertain	 observations in respect of this record which  wouldshow  that it was not prepared to attach any  importance  toit.   "	 The papers ", says the judgment, " do	not  inspiremuch  confidence and cannot be relied upon in proof of,	 thefacts  disclosed  by them ". It is unfortunate that  when  aserious allegation was made against the whole of the  recordalleged	 'to have been kept by the Village Panchayat and  ithad  been categorically rejected by the	 Election  Tribunal,the  High Court should not have made its own finding on	 thepoint in clear and unambiguous terms.The  oral  evidence led by the appellant in support  of	 therecord	and the other material circumstances  considered  bythe  Election Tribunal do not appear to have  been  properlytaken  into account by the High Court in dealing  with	thispoint.	 The High Court was, however, impressed by  what  itcalled two defects in respect of this record-.	It  observedthat the accounts had not been audited as required by r.  20of  the Bihar Gram Panchayat Account Rules, 1949,  and	thatthe  cash  balance had not been kept by the Mukhiya  in	 thenearest	 Post Office Savings Bank or in any  recognised	 Co-operative  Bank or a Government Treasury in the name of	 thePanchayat  as  required	 by  r. 8.  These  two	defects	 mayundoubtedly  suggest  that  the officers  of  the  Panchayatincluding  the appellant had not acted properly and had	 notcomplied with the obligations imposed by the said rules; butit  is difficult to understand how the said two defects	 canhave  a	 material and direct bearing on the question  as  towhether the record had, been fabricated.  If the High  Courtintended to hold that the record bad in fact been fabricatedit  should  have considered the relevant  evidence  and	 thematerial circumstances545more  carefully and should have made a definite	 finding  inthat  behalf.	To  say	 that  the  record  bore  only	 thesignatures  of	the appellant and his clerk and to  seek  todraw an adverse inference from that fact is, in our opinion,adopting a wrong approach to the question.  If the appellantwas the Mukhiya he was bound to sign the record, and so	 wasthe  clerk  bound  to write it;	 that  cannot  therefore  betreated	 as  a	suspicious circumstance by  itself  We	havecarefully  examined  this  question and we do  not  see	 anyreason	why  the  well-considered finding  of  the  ElectionTribunal  on  this  point should  not  have  been  accepted.Therefore, we must assume that the Panchayat record producedby the appellant is not shown to have been fabricated.Besides, the High Court itself appears to have assumed	thatthis  record showed that there was an understanding  betweenthe  appellant	and the Village Panchayat in regard  to	 thefinancial  obligations	involved  in the  execution  of	 theimpugned  contracts.   "  It  might  well  be  ",  says	 thejudgment, " that the loss or the profit was ultimately to beborne or pocketed by the Gram Panchayat itself " ; but that,according to the High Court, " does not take away the effectof  the contract itself which on the face of it was  enteredinto by the appellant himself ". If the Panchayat agreed  tobear   the  loss  or  take  the	 profit	 flowing  from	 theperformance  of	 the contract then it clearly  supports	 theappellant's  case that he had executed the contract  as	 theMukhiya of the Panchayat.  The arrangement to which the HighCourt refers, if genuine, would be wholly inconsistent	withthe  case set up by respondent I that the contract had	beenexecuted by the appellant personally.The High Court has also held that the appellant had not madeout  this specific case either before the returning  officerwhen  his  nomination  was  challenged	or  in	the  presentproceedings  when  he  filed  his  written  statement.	 Theappellant  had	no  doubt stated in reply  that	 he  had  nointerest in any contract undertaken by the State Government.According to the 69546High  Court his failure to add the further  particular	thatthe  contract  had  been executed,by him on  behalf  of	 thePanchayat  shows that the said plea is an afterthought.	  Weare  unable to see the force of this criticism.	  But  apartfrom it, the question raised by the appellant relates to theconstruction  of  the  contract and we do not  see  how	 theconstruction of a document can be prejudicially affected  bythe  failure of the party to make a more specific  and	moreprecise	 plea  in his written statement.  We have  no  doubtthat,  if  the contract is considered as a whole,  it  wouldshow  that the appellant had executed it as the	 Mukhiya  ofthe Village Panchayat and this conclusion cannot be affectedby  the	 alleged  defect in the plea taken  by	him  in	 thewritten statement.The  High  Court  has also relied on the fact  that  if	 thecontract  was  intended to be executed by the  appellant  onbehalf of the Panchayat it should have been executed in	 thename of the corporate body as required by s. 6 of the  BiharPanchayat Raj Act (Bihar Act 7 of 1958).  It may be that theGram Panchayat is a body corporate by the name specified  inthe  notification  under  sub-s.  (1) of  s.  3	 and  has  aperpetual succession and a common seal, and so has power  tocontract  in  the  name of the body corporate;	but  as	 thejudgment of the High Court itself points out the  invalidityof  the	 contract would not affect the merits of  the  issueraised under s. 7(d) of the Act.  That is the view taken  bythis  Court  in Chatturbhuj Vithaldas  Jasani  v.  MoreshwarParashram  (1),	 and that in fact is the point made  by	 theHigh  Court  in rejecting the  appellant's  contention	thatsince  the contract was invalid he could not be said  to  beinterested  in it under s. 7(d) of the Act.  Therefore,	 theinvalidity  of the contract cannot help us in  deciding	 thequestion  as  to  whether, on  its  true  construction,	 thecontract can be said to have been executed by the  appellantin  his personal capacity or as the Mukhiya of	the  VillagePanchayat.   Our  conclusion, therefore, is  that  the	fourimpugned  contracts have been executed by the  appellant  asthe Mukhiya of the Village(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 817.547Panchayat just in the same way as he had executed the schoolcontract  as  the Secretary of the  Vidyalaya  in  question.That  being so, s. 7(d) cannot be invoked against  him.	  Inview of this conclusion it is unnecessary to decide  whetherthe works in question had been undertaken by the  Governmentof Bihar or by the Central Government.The  result  is that the appeal must be allowed,  the  orderpassed by the High Court set aside and that of the  tribunalrestored ; respondent I shall pay the costs of the appellantthroughout;  and  the Election Commission shall	 bear  theirown.We  would  like to add that, after this	 appeal	 was  arguedbefore	us on April 2, 1959, we had announced  our  decisionthat the appeal would be allowed and that the judgment wouldbe delivered later on in due course.  It is in pursuance  ofthat order that the present judgment has been delivered.Appeal allowed.