PETITIONER:MRS.  KUSUMBEN D. MAHADEVIA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,BOMBAY.DATE OF JUDGMENT:30/03/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1960 AIR  907		  1960 SCR  (3) 417 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC 107	 (13) RF	    1961 SC1633	 (13,26) RF	    1963 SC1356	 (121) R	    1963 SC1484	 (7) RF	    1973 SC1023	 (13)ACT:lncome-tax--Reference--High   Court's  jurisdiction-If	 candecide	a  question  not  decided  by  the  Tribunal--IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922	(XI  of	 1922),	 s.  66--The  States(Taxation Concessions) Order, 1949, Para. 4.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was  a shareholder of  a  company  known  asMafatlal  Gagalbhai  and  Co., Ltd.  The  Company  with	 itsregistered  office  at	Bombay was  at	all  material  timesresident  in British India.  It was also doing	business  inthe former Baroda State and used to keep its profits derivedin   that   State   with   Mafatlal   Gagalbhai	  InvestmentCorporation,  Navsari.	In the year 1949 Mafatlal  Gagalbhaiand  Co.  Ltd. declared dividends out of profits  which	 hadaccrued	 partly	 in British India and partly in	 the  IndianState.	 The  appellant was assessed to	 income-tax  on	 thedividends earned by her.  She did not bring those  dividendsinto British India and claimed the benefit of para. 4 of theMerged	States (Taxation Concessions) Order.   The  Tribunalheld that the income did not accrue to the appellant in	 theBaroda State but it did not decide the question whether	 shewas  entitled  to the benefits of the  Taxation	 ConcessionsOrder.	The High Court on a reference to it held that  para.4  of the Taxation Concessions Order. did not apply  to	 theassessee  but  it did not decide the other  question  as  towhere the income had accrued to the assessee.  On appeal  byspecial	 leave	the appellant contended,  inter	 alia,	thatsince  the  Tribunal had not gone into the question  of	 theapplicability  to the assessee of the Concessions Order	 andhad not expressed any opinion thereon, the High Court  couldnot raise the question on its own and decide it:Held, that the High Court exceeded its jurisdiction in goingoutside	 the  point  of	 law decided  by  the  Tribunal	 anddeciding a different point of law.Section 66 of the Income-tax Act which confers	jurisdictionupon  the High Court only permits a reference of a  questionof  law arising out of the order of the Tribunal.   It	doesnot  confer  jurisdiction  on the High	Court  to  decide  adifferent question of law not arising out of such order.New Jehangir Vakil Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax,[1959]	37 I.T.R. 11, Scindia Steam Navigation Co.  Ltd.  v.Commissioner   of   Income-tax,	 [1954]	  26   I.T.R.	686,Commissioner  of  Incometax v. Breach  Candy  Swimming	BathTrust,	[1955]	27 I.T.R. 279 and Ismailia  Grain  MerchantsAssociation  v. Commissioner of Incometax, [1957] 31  I.T.R.433, distinguished.Mash  Trading Co. v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  [1956]  30I.T.R. 388, considered.418JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 507 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the order and  judgment  datedSeptember  28,	1955, and February 20, 1956, of	 the  BombayHigh Court in Income-tax Reference No. 28 of 1955.R.J. Kolah and I. N. Shroff, for the appellant.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor - General of India,B. Ganapathylyer and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  March 30.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH, J.-This is an appeal with the special leave ofthis Court, and is directed against an order dated September28,  1955,  and a judgment dated February 20, 1956,  of	 theHigh Court of Bombay.  By the order, the High Court reframeda  question  referred  to it by the  Appellate	Tribunal  atBombay, which it answered by its judgment.Mrs.  Kusumben D. Mahadevia (hereinafter referred to as	 theassessee)  who has filed this appeal, was, at  all  materialtimes,	residing in Bombay.  She was a shareholder,  holding760  shares of Mafatlal Gagalbhai & Co., Ltd., Bombay.	 Forthe  assessment	 year 1950-51 (the previous year  being	 thecalendar  year	1949), she was assessed to income-tax  on  atotal  income  of Rs. 1,50,765 which included  a  grossed-updividend  income of Rs. 1,47,026.  In the latter income	 wasincluded a sum of Rs. 47,120 being the dividends declared byMafatlal Gagalbhai & Co., Ltd., Bombay.	 Mafatlal  Gagalbhai&  Co.,	 Ltd.,	is  a  private	limited	 Company  with	 itsregistered office at Bombay.  It was, at all material times,'resident and ordinarily resident' in British India.  It wasalso doing business in the former Baroda State, and used  tokeep  its  profits  derived  in	 that  State  with  MafatlalGagalbhai Investment Corporation, Navsari.  In the year 1949Mafatlal  Gagalbhai & Co., Ltd., declared dividends  out  ofthese  accumulated profits by three resolutions,  which	 arereproduced:25-3-1949.  " That a further dividend of Rs. 17 per ordinaryshare free of income-tax for the year 1947 be and is  herebydeclared absorbing Rs. 4,29,250419and the same be payable in Navsari out of the profits of theyear 1947 lying at Navsari."24-9-1949.  " That a further dividend of Rs. 24 per ordinaryshare free of income-tax for the year 1948 be and is  herebydeclared  absorbing Rs. 6,06,000 and the same be payable  inNavsari out of the profits of the year 1948 lying at Navsariwith Messrs.  M.G. Investment Corporation Ltd. on -or  after30th April, 1949."24-9-1949.  " Resolved that an Ad-interim dividend of Rs. 21per ordinary share free of income-tax absorbing Rs. 5,30,250be  and	 is  hereby declared for the year 1949	out  of	 theincome of the Company for the year 1949 remaining  unbroughtwith  Messrs.  M. G. Investment Corporation  Ltd.,  Navsari,and  that  the same be payable in Navsari on or	 after	30thApril, 1949."The  assessee  did not bring these  dividends  into  BritishIndia.	 She  claimed the benefit of para. 4 of	 the  MergedStates	(Taxation  Concessions)	 Order,	 1949	(hereinafterreferred  to  briefly  as the Concessions  Order);  but	 theTribunal  held that the income did not accrue to her in	 theBaroda	State.	The Tribunal pointed out that the  dividendswere declared by Mafatlal Gagalbhai & Co., Ltd., out of	 itsprofits	 which had accrued partly in, what was then  called,British India and partly in the Indian State.  The  dividendwas  thus declared out of ' composite profits'.	 It  furtherpointed out that the assessee had paid for and acquired	 theshares of a Company in British India and was thus holding anasset  in British India, and that the income was  from	thatasset.	 The  Tribunal,	 however, at  the  instance  of	 theassessee  drew up a statement of the case under s. 66(1)  ofthe  Indian  Income-tax	 Act,  and  referred  the  followingquestion to the High Court:"  Whether the net dividend income of Rs. 47,120 accrued  tothe  assessee in the former Baroda State, or whether  it  isincome accrued or deemed to have accrued to the assessee  inBritish India ?"When  the  reference was heard, the High Court	was  of	 theopinion that the Tribunal ought to have decided and referredalso the question whether the Concessions420Order  applied to the assessee.	 The High  Court  recognisedthe grievance of the assessee that no such point was  raisedbefore the Tribunal.  The High Court, however, by its  orderdated September 28, 1955, decided that there was no need  tosend  the case back for a supplemental statement, since	 allthe facts necessary to decide the two questions were  beforethe High Court.	 The High Court then reframed the  question,as  it	said,  to comprehend the two points of	law  in	 thefollowing words:"  Whether the assessee is entitled to any concession  underthe  Merged States (Taxation Concessions) Order, 1949,	withregard to the net dividend income of Rs. 47,120?"The  reference then came up for final disposal	on  February20,  1956, and the High Court answered the question  in	 thenegative, holding that para. 4 of the Concessions Order	 didnot  apply to the assessee.  The High Court did	 not  decidewhere  the  income had accrued to the  assessee.   Leave  toappeal to this Court was refused by the High Court, but	 theassessee  applied  to this Court for special  leave  againstboth  the  order and the judgment and obtained it,  and	 thepresent appeal has been filed.At  the	 very  outset,	the  assessee  has  questioned	 thejurisdiction  of  the High Court to frame and  deal  with  aquestion  of  law  not	arising out  of	 the  order  of	 theTribunal.   The	 assessee points out that the  Tribunal	 haddecided	 that the income had accrued in British India.	 Theassessee  had challenged this part of the decision,  and  ifthe Commissioner felt it necessary, he should have  obtainedthe  decision of the Tribunal and asked for a  reference  onthe other point also.  Since the Tribunal had not gone	intothe  question  of the applicability to the assessee  of	 theConcessions Order and had not expressed any opinion thereon,the  assessee contends that the High Court could  not  raisethe  question  on  its own, and	 decide	 it.   The  assesseestrongly  relies  upon	a  decision of	this  Court  in	 NewJehangir Vakil Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax	(1).In that case, the Bombay High Court had (1) [1959] 37 I.T.R. 11.421directed the Tribunal to submit a supplementary statement ofthe  case  on  points  not arising from	 the  order  of	 theTribunal,  and	this Court held that the High Court  had  nojurisdiction  to  do  so.   The	 learned  counsel  for	 theCommissioner, on the other hand, contends that the  questionwas  the  assessability	 of the assessee,  who	claimed	 thebenefit	 of  the Concessions Order.  The main  question	 wasthus  the  applicability of the Concessions Order,  and	 thequestion  of the accrual of the income, whether	 in  BritishIndia  or  in  Baroda, was  merely  ancillary.	 The  latterquestion  was, according to the respondent, included in	 thefirst question, and the High Court was right when it  frameda comprehensive question and answered it in the sequence  itdid.   The respondent points out that the High Court  havingheld  that  the	 Concessions Order did not  apply,  was	 notrequired  to  decide the other limb of the question,  as  itbecame unnecessary to do so.In  our	 opinion,  the objection of the	 assessee  is  well-founded.   The	Tribunal  did  not  address  itself  to	 thequestion  whether  the	Concessions  Order  applied  to	 theassessee.   It decided the question of assessability on	 theshort ground that the income had not arisen in Baroda but inBritish	 India.	  That	aspect of the matter  has  not	beentouched	 by the Bombay High Court.  The latter has,  on	 theother hand, considered whether the Concessions Order appliesto  the	 assessee,  a matter not touched  by  the  Tribunal.Thus, though the result is the same so far as the assessmentis   concerned,	 the  grounds  of  decision   are   entirelydifferent.The  High  Court  felt	that  the  question  framed  by	  itcomprehended both the aspects and, perhaps it did.  But	 thetwo  matters  were  neither co-extensive, nor  was  the	 oneincluded  in the other.	 The question of accrual  of  incomehas  to	 be  decided under the Incometax Act,  and  has	 butlittle to do with the Concessions Order.  That question	 canbe  adequately	decided on the facts of	 this  case  withoutadvertence to the Concessions Order.  It cannot,  therefore,be  said  to be either coextensive with or included  in	 thedecision  of  the question actually considered by  the	HighCourt to wit, whether the Concessions Order applied or	not.If this54422be  so, it is manifest that the Tribunal  decided  somethingwhich  stands completely outside the decision of the  BombayHigh Court.  The High Court also decided a matter which	 wasnot  considered	 by  the  Tribunal even as  a  step  in	 thedecision  of the point actually decided.  The two  decisionsare  thus strangers to each other, though they lead  to	 thesame result.Section 66 of the Income-tax Act which confers	jurisdictionupon  the High Court only permits a reference of a  questionof  law arising out of the order of the Tribunal.   It	doesnot  confer  jurisdiction  on the High	Court  to  decide  adifferent question of law Dot arising out of such order.  Itis  possible  that  the same question  of  law	may  involvedifferent  approaches for its solution, and the	 High  Courtmay amplify the question to take in all the approaches.	 Butthe question must still be one which was before the Tribunaland was decided by it.	It must not be an entirely differentquestion which the Tribunal never considered.The  respondent	 attempted to justify the  action  taken  bycontending that the decision of the question of the  accrualof the income with reference to the place of accrual impliedthe  applicability  of	the Concessions Order.	 We  do	 notagree.	 If  this were so, there would be  no  necessity  toframe  the  question again.  Indeed, the High  Court  itselffelt   that  there  were  two  limbs  of  the  question	  ofassessability,	and reframed the question to cover both	 thelimbs.	Where the High Court went wrong was in not  decidingboth  the  limbs but one of them and that too, the  one	 notdecided	 by  the Tribunal.  The resulting  position  can  besummed	up by saying that the High Court  decided  somethingwhich  the  Tribunal  did  not,	 and  the  Tribunal  decidedsomething  which  the High Court did not.  This	 is  clearlyagainst the provisions of s. 66.  The respondent referred toScindia Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax (1), Commissioner of Income-tax v. Breach Candy SwimmingBath Trust (2 ) and Ismailia Grain Merchants Association  v.Commissioner of Income-tax (3).	 They(1) [1954] 26 I.T.R. 686.  (2) [1955] 27 I.T.R. 279.(3) [1957] 31 I.T.R. 433.423were all decisions of the same Court, and arose in differentcircumstances.	In two of them, the question was wide enoughto take in a line of reasoning not adopted by the  Tribunal,and  in	 the third, the question was widened by	 deleting  areference  to  a  section, when	 another  section  was	alsomaterial.   They were not cases where the issues of  law  asdecided	 by  the Tribunal and the High Court  were  entirelydifferent,  which is the case here.  The Punjab	 High  Courthas  taken  a  contrary view in Mash  Trading  Co.  v.	Com-missioner of Income-tax (1).For the reasons given above, we are of opinion that the HighCourt  exceeded its jurisdiction in going outside the  pointof  law	 decided by the Tribunal and  deciding	a  differentpoint of law.  The order of the High Court will,  therefore,be  set	 aside, and the case will be remitted  to  the	HighCourt  to  decide the question framed by the  Tribunal.	  Inview of the fact that both the assessee and the Commissionerpointed out the anomaly to the : High Court and the questionwas  reframed  in spite of this, the costs  of	this  appealshall  be  costs in the reference to. be heard by  the	HighCourt, and will abide the result.Appeal allowed.Case remitted.