PETITIONER:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHAND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:H.   H. MAHARAJA BRIJENDRA SINGH.DATE OF JUDGMENT:26/08/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.DAS, S.K.SUBBARAO, K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR   14		  1961 SCR  (1) 363 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1972 SC 425	 (20) R	    1984 SC1178	 (13,15,16)ACT:Land Acquisition-Statute contravening Provisions of  Govern-ment of India Act-Subsequent inclusion in Ninth Schedule  ofConstitution-Constitutionality	of--U.	P. Land	 Acquisition(Rehabilitation	 of  Refugees)	Act, 1948 (U.	P.  XXVI  of1948),	s.  11-Constitution  India,  Art.  31-B	 and   NinthSchedule-Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, s. 5.HEADNOTE:The property of the respondent was acquired under the U.  P.Land  Acquisition  (Rehabilitation of Refugees)	 Act,  1948.The  respondent challenged the constitutionality of the	 Actby  way	 of  a	writ petition  and  though  the	 High  Courtdismissed the petition it held that the two provisos to s.11of  the Act were invalid as they offended S. 299(2)  of	 theGovernment  of	India Act.   Subsequently  the	Constitution(Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, included the U. P. Act in	 theNinth Schedule as item NO. 15.	The appellant contended thatthe inclusion of the Act in the Ninth Schedule protected  itunder Art. 31-B of the Constitution from any challenge unders. 299(2) of the Government of India Act.Held, that the U. P. Act could not be assailed on the groundof unconstitutionality based on a contravention of S. 299 ofthe  Government	 of India Act.	The provisions	of  the	 Acthaving	been specifically saved by Art. 31-B read  with	 theNinth Schedule, the Act could not be deemed to be void or toever   have  become  void  on  the  ground  of	its   havingcontravened the provisions of the Government of India Act.Dhirubha  Devisingh Gohil v. The State of Bombay,  [1955]  1S.C.R. 691, relied on.Saghir Ahmad v. The State of U. P., [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707, notapplicable.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 131 of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated February 4,  1954,of the Allahabad High Court in Civil Misc.  Writ No. 7976 of1951.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India and C.P. Lal, for the appellants.			    363V.   M.	 Limaye, Mrs. E. Udayaratnam and S. S.	Shukla,	 forthe respondent.1960.	August 26.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR J.-This is an appeal against the judgment and order ofthe  High Court of Allahabad on a certificate granted  underArts.	132  and  133(1)(c)  of,  the	Constitution.	 Therespondent  herein was the petitioner in the High  Court  inone of the petitions which were filed in that Court coveringthe   question	which  has  been  raised  before  us.	 Theappellants before us were the respondents in the High Court.The respondent was the Ruler of the State of Bharatpur,	 nowa  part	 of Rajasthan, and is the owner of the	property  indispute known as 'Kothi Kandhari Jadid' in Agra.  On January28, 1950, the Agra Improvement Trust-hereinafter called	 theTrust passed a resolution under s. 5 of the U.P. Land Acqui-sition (Rehabilitation of Refugees) Act, 1948, (U.P. XXVI of1948)-hereinafter called the Act-for the acquisition of	 theproperty in dispute and expressed its willingness to act  as" builder " within the meaning of the provisions of the Act.The Government declared the Trust as the " builder " on	 May6,  1950, and an agreement was entered into on	November  6,1950, in terms of the Act, which was published on January 6,1951.	The Trust deposited a sum of Its. 57,800  being	 theestimated cost of the acquisition on February 27, 1951,	 anda  notification under s. 7 of the Act was published  in	 theU.P. Gazette on July 21, 1951.	By sub-s. (2) of s. 7,	uponthe  publication of the notification, the land acquired	 wasto  vest absolutely in the State.  After the respondent	 wasserved	with a notice calling upon him to appear before	 theCompensation  Officer at Agra, he filed	 certain  objectionschallenging  the propriety of the acquisition and the  viresof the Act.  It was also alleged that the Collector, withoutdeciding  the  matter, proceeded to  take  possession.	 Therespondent,  thereupon, filed a petition under Art.  226  ofthe Constitution in the47364Allahabad  High Court for a writ prohibiting the  appellantsfrom  acquiring	 his land or interfering  with	his  rights.This petition was dismissed by the High Court on February 2,1954.	But  certain  findings	were  given  to	 which	 theappellants  have taken objection.  In its judgment the	HighCourt observed :-"  In  these petitions the prayer is that the Court  may  bepleased	 to grant a writ, direction or other suitable  orderprohibiting   the  State  Government  from   acquiring	 thepetitioners'  land or interfering with their rights  in	 anyother manner, and to grant such other suitable relief as theCourt  may  deem  fit.	At  the	 hearing,  however,  learnedcounsel	 for the petitioners stated more  Specifically	thatthe  relief which the petitioners sought was a writ  in	 thenature	of  certiorari	to  quash  the	State	Government'sNotification  under section 7 of the Act made on 11th  July,1951,  or,  in	the  alternative, the issue  of	 a  writ  ofmandamus  directing the Compensation Officer in	 calculatingthe compensation payable to them under the Act to  disregardthe two provisos of sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the ActThe  respondent	 submitted in the High Court  that  the	 Actcontravened  the provisions of Art. 31(2) and was not  savedby the provisions of Art. 31(5) of the Constitution and thatthe  Act infringed Art. 14 of the Constitution	and  severalother contentions were also raised.  The relevant  provisionof the Act which requires consideration is s. 11 which	runsas follows:- 11. (1) Whenever any land is  acquired under section 7 or 9there  shall be paid compensation the amount of which  shallbe  determined	by the Compensation Officer,  in  accordancewith  the  principles set out in clauses first,	 second	 andthird  of sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of section  23of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894:Provided  that the market value referred to in clause  firstof  the	 said sub-section shall be deemed to be	 the  marketvalue of such land on the date of publication of the  noticeunder  section 7 or 9, as the case may be, or on  the  firstday of September, 1939, whichever is less:365Provided  further that where such land has been held by	 theowner thereof under a purchase made before the first day  ofApril, 1948, but after the first day of September, 1939,  bya  registered document, or a decree for pre-emption  betweenthe  aforesaid	dates, the compensation shall be  the  priceactually  paid by the purchaser or the amount on payment  ofwhich  he may have acquired the land in the decree for	pre-emption, as the case may be."The High Court held that these two provisos were invalid andthat devoid of these offending provisos, s. 11(1) of the Actwas not invalid and consequently the order of the appellantswas  a	valid  order and thus the writ	for  certiorari	 wasrefused.In  regard  to the prayer for a writ of mandamus,  the	HighCourt observed:-" Nor do we think that we should order the issue of mandamusdirecting  the	Compensation  Officer  in  determining	 thecompensation  payable  to  the	petitioners  to	 ignore	 theprovisos  to section 11(1).  We have held those provisos  tobe  invalid.  The Compensation Officer, for some  reason  ofwhich we are not aware, has not yet embarked on the task  ofdetermining the compensation, but when he does so we  assumethat he will be guided by the opinion we have expressed;  wecannot assume that he will act otherwise ".The petition was therefore dismissed but the appellants wereordered to pay costs.  It is against this judgment that	 theappellants have appealed to this Court on a certificate.No  objection was taken by the respondent to the  competencyof  the	 appeal	 on the ground that the	 petition  had	beendismissed  and the legality of the certificate has not	beenchallenged before us.The  only question for decision is whether the two  provisosto  s. 11(1) of the Act are unconstitutional because of	 theprovisions  of	s. 299(2) of the Government  of	 India	Act,1935.	The  Constitution was amended  by  the	Constitution(First	Amendment) Act, 1951, and Art. 31-B was inserted  inthe Constitution which is as follows:366"  Without  prejudice to the generality	 of  the  provisionscontained  in article 31A, none of the Acts and	 Regulationsspecified  in the Ninth Schedule nor any of  the  provisionsthereof	 shall be deemed to be void, or ever to have  becomevoid,  on the ground that such Act, Regulation or  provisionis  inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of	 therights	conferred  by,	any provisions	of  this  Part,	 andnotwithstanding	 any judgment, decree or order of any  courtor  tribunal  to  the contrary, each of the  said  Acts	 andRegulations  shall,  subject to the power of  any  competentLegislature to repeal or amend it, continue in force ".By s. 5 of the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act of  1955,which was published on April 27, 1955, the Act was  includedin the Schedule and is item 15.	 It was argued on behalf  ofthe appellants that by the inclusion of the Act in the NinthSchedule,  the	ground	of unconstitutionality	of  the	 Actbecause	 of s. 299(2) of the Government of India Act  is  nolonger	available  to  the  respondent	and  that  what	 wasprovided  as  safeguard in s. 299(2) of	 the  Government  ofIndia  Act  has been incorporated in  the  Constitution	 andtherefore  any	unconstitutionality arising as a  result  ofcontravention of s. 299(2) of the Government of India Act iscared  by Art. 31-B of the Constitution.  This question	 wasraised and decided in Dhirubha Devisingh Gohil v. The  Stateof Bombay(1).  It was held that s. 299(2) of the  Governmentof India Act was in substance a fundamental right which	 waslifted	bodily as it were from the Government of  India	 Actinto Part III of the Constitution.  Therefore the protectionunder  Art.  31-B against the violation of  the	 fundamentalrights mentioned therein must extend to the rights under  s.299  of	 the Government of India Act  also.   The  followingpassage	 from  that judgment at page 695  is  important	 andapplicable to the facts of the present case :"   What article 31-B protects is not a	 mere 'contraventionof  the provisions ' of Part III of the Constitution but  anattack	 on  the  grounds  that	 the  impugned	Act   is   'inconsistent with or takes away or(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 691, 695.			    367abridges  any of the rights conferred by any  provisions  ofthis Part: One of the rights secured to a person by Part IIIof  the Constitution is a right that his property  shall  beacquired   only	 for  public  purposes	and  under   a	 lawauthorising such acquisition and providing for	compensationwhich  is  either fixed by the law itself  or  regulated  byprinciples specified by the law That is also the very  rightwhich was previously secured to the person under section 299of the Government of India Act ".In view of the judgment of this Court in Dhirubha  DevisinghGohil's case (1) the ground of unconstitutionality based  onthe  contravention of s. 299 of the Government of India	 Actwould not be available to the respondent.  But it was arguedon  behalf  of	the respondent that  the  amendment  of	 theConstitution which came after the decision of the  AllahabadHigh Court cannot validate the earlier legislation which, atthe time it was passed was unconstitutional and reliance wasplaced	upon the judgment of this Court in Saghir  Ahmad  v.The  State  of	U.  P. (2).  But in  the  present  case	 theprovisions of the Act have been' specifically saved from anyattack	on their constitutionality as a consequence of	Art.31-B  read with the Ninth Schedule, the effect of  which  isthat  the  Act cannot be deemed to be void or ever  to	havebecome void on the ground of its being hit by the  operationof the Government of India Act.In  the result, this appeal is allowed and that	 portion  ofthe  judgment  of  the High Court  which  declared  the	 twoprovisos  of  s.11(1) of the Act to be void, is	 set  aside.The  High Court awarded costs against the  appellant.	Thatorder  is also set aside.  But in view of the fact that	 theappeal	has succeeded because of a subsequent  event,  i.e.,the incorporation of the Act in the Ninth Schedule, we orderthat the parties do bear their own costs in this Court.			   Appeal allowed.		   _____________________(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 691, 695,(2)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707 at PP. 727-728,368