PETITIONER:THE J. K. COTTON SPINNING & WEAVING MILLS CO., LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:12/12/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1170 CITATOR INFO : AFR	    1977 SC1194	 (7) RF	    1979 SC  65	 (5) RF	    1980 SC2181	 (80) R	    1984 SC1130	 (42) RF	    1988 SC1737	 (48) R	    1991 SC 855	 (51) RF	    1991 SC1256	 (15)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Proposed  dismissal	 of  workmen-Pendingdispute-Permission  not	 sought-Reference  to	adjudicationVaiidity of-U.	P. Industrial Disputes	Act, 1947 (U.  P. 28of  1947),  ss. 3 and 8 Government Order  dated	 March	10,1948, cls. 5(a), 23.HEADNOTE:Under ss. 3 and 8 of the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947the  Governor issued an Order dated March 10,  1948,  makingdletailed  provisions  for  the	 settlement  of	  IndustrialDisputes.   Clause 5(a) of the Government  Order  empowered,among others, a recognised association of employers to referan  industrial dispute for adjudication to the	ConciliationBoard.	Clause 23 provided that no employer shall  dischargeor  dismiss  any workman during the pendency of	 an  inquiryexcept	 with  the  written  permission	 of   the   RegionalConciliation Officer, and Cl. 26 provided for penalties	 forcontravention of Cl. 23.  The appellant proposed to  dismisscertain	 workmen.   Though at the time there was  a  disputepending inquiry, the appellant did not seek permission undercl.  23 to dismiss the workmen; but the Employers'  Associa-tion of Northern India made an application under cl. 5(a) tothe Board to adjudicate and give an award that the appellantwas entitled to dismiss the workmen.  The workmen  contendedthat  the  reference under cl. 5(a) was incompetent  as	 theappellant had ,not first taken proceedings under Cl. 23.Held,  that the application under cl. 5(a) of the G. O.	 wasnot24186maintainable,  as the employer could not take  advantage  ofcl.  5(a) during the pendency of an inquiry when Cl. 23	 wasapplicable.  If cls. 5(a) and 23 were held to' apply at	 thesame  time there would be disharmony as by resorting to	 cl.5(a)  when  Cl. 23 was applicable, the	employers  would  becontravening cl. 23 and rendering themselves liable to	thepenalties under S. 26.	But there was complete harmony if itwas  held  that	 cl.  5(a) applied in  all  other  cases  ofdismissal  or discharge except where an inquiry was  pendingwithin the meaning of Cl. 23.  Besides Cl. 23 was a  specialprovision which prevailed over the general provisions in cl.5(a).Kanpur	Mill  Mazdoor  Union v.	 Employers'  Association  ofNorthern India, (1952) 1 L.L.J. 195, approved.De  Winton v. Brecon, (1858) 28 L.J. Ch. 598,  Churchill  v.Crease,	 (182S)	 5 Bing.  177 and United  States  v.  Chase,(1890) 135 U.  S. 255, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 157 of 1959.Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated January 5,  1956,of  the	 Allahabad High Court in Special Appeal No.  205  of1954andCivil Appeal No. 158 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 15, 1952, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India,Allahabad, in Appeal No. Cal. 47 of 1951.M.C.  Setalvad,	 Attorney-General  for India  and  G.  C.Mathur, for the appellant.M.   R. Krishna Pillai, for respondent No. 5 (In C.A. No.  157/1959).C.   P. Lal, for the State of U. P. and Respondents Nos. 2and 4 (In C. A. No. 157/59).O.   P. Verma, for respondent No. 5 (in C. A. No. 158/59).1960.  December 12.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyDAs  GUPTA, J.-These two appeals raise the question  of	 themaintainability	 of  an application made by  the  Employers'Association of Northern India, Kanpur on behalf of , the  J.K. Cotton and Weaving Mills187Co.,  Ltd., a member of the Association in  connection	withthe  proposed termination of service of certain	 members  ofits  Watch  and	 Ward  Staff.  But before  we  come  to	 theconsideration  of this question it is necessary to  indicatein  brief  the	long  and  tortuous  path  this	 matter	 hastraveled  before  coming  to us.   The	application  of	 theEmployers' Association purported to be under clause 5(a)  ofthe  Government order dated March 10, 1948, as amended by  alater  order of May 15, 1948.  This order was issued by	 theGovernor  of the United Provinces in exercise of the  powersconferred  on him by cl. (b), (c), (d) and (g) of section  3and by s. 8 of the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	 Theapplication after stating that a number of thefts of Dhotieshad  taken  place  in the Mill further stated  that  it	 wasobvious	 to the management of the J. K. Cotton Spinning	 andWeaving	 Mills Co., Ltd., that this state of  affairs  couldnot exist and continue if Watch and Ward staff were carryingout  their  duties vigilantly, correctly and  honestly.	  Itstated further that the management having lost confidence inthe  honesty  of  the Watch and Ward Staff  had	 decided  toterminate the services of all the per. sons of the Watch andWard  Staff  and to recruit fresh men  from  the  employmentexchange  and  that  in lieu of	 notice	 of  termination  ofservice	 the management would pay to these persons 12  days'wages in accordance with Standing Order No. 17A.  The prayermade  in the application was that "the Board be	 pleased  torecord	the  award entitling the J. K.	Cotton	and  WeavingMills  Co.,  Ltd.,  to terminate the  services	of  all	 themembers	 of the Watch and Ward Staff whose names  appear  inAnnexure A".  During the pendency of the application  beforethe Board the applicant withdrew its prayer as regards 5  ofthe  workmen.	As  regards  the  remaining  workmen,  afterrejecting  the preliminary objection raised on their  behalfthat  the  Board  had  no  jurisdiction	 to  entertain	 theapplication,  the  Board held that "it would not be  in	 theinterests of either party or in the interest of industry  toallow the remaining 27 sepoys to continue in the  employmentof the Mills" and the Board188accordingly  made  the award permitting	 the  appellants  toterminate the services of these 27 sepoys after giving	themcompensation  at the rates set out by it--starting  with  15days full wages and compensation for those with one year  ofservice	  with	additional  amount  of	compensation  on   agraduated scale for longer periods of service.	Against thisorder  both  the parties appealed to the  Industrial  Court.That court agreed with Board's conclusion on the question ofjurisdiction but pointed out that the "procedure adopted  bythe  employers	association was defective  inasmuch  as	 themills did not apply to the Regional Conciliation Officer  todischarge the sepoys in question".  On merits the court heldthat  the  evidence justified the conclusion of	 the  Boardthat  the management had lost confidence in the	 members  ofthe  Watch  and	 Ward Staff and that having  regard  to	 theStanding  Orders  their	 services should  be  terminated  inaccordance   with  the	Standing  Orders.   It	 accordinglydirected  in  modification of the order made  by  the  Board"that  the  services  of  the  27  sepoys  in  question	  beterminated  in accordance with the Standing Orders and	thatthey would not be paid extra compensation as directed by theBoard."	 The workmen then appealed to the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  of India.  The appellate tribunal held relying  onan earlier decision of its own in Kanpur Mill Mazdoor  Unionv.  Employers'	Association of Northern India (1)  that	 theapplication  under cl. 5(a) of the Government Order was	 notmaintainable.	Accordingly  it allowed the appeal  and	 setaside  the  award  of the Board as well	 as  the  IndustrialCourt.J.K. Cotton and Weaving Mills Co., Ltd., thereupon  filedan  application	 under Art. 226 of the Constitution  to	 theHigh Court of Judicature at Allahabad praying for a writ  inthe nature of certiorari calling for the records of the casefrom the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India and quashing theorder  of the Tribunal which has been mentioned above.	 Mr.Justice Chaturvedi, before whom this application came up forhearing held that the application under(1)(1952) 1 L.L.J. 195.189cl.  5(a)  was maintainable and the Appellate  Tribunal	 haderred in holding otherwise.  Being however, of opinion	thatthere had been undue delay in making this application for  awrit,  he  dismissed the petition on that  ground.   In	 theLetters Patent appeal preferred by the company against	thisdecision a preliminary objection was raised on behalf of theUnion representing the workmen that the Allahabad High Courtcould  not call for the records and quash the order  of	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal of India as those records were  inCalcutta  and  consequently beyond the reach of	 the  Court.The  learned  Judges  who  heard  the  appeal  upheld	thisobjection  and dismissed the appeal.  They however issued  acertificate under Art. 132(1)and  Art.	133(1)(c)  of	theConstitution.  Thereafterthe   company	also   obtainedspecial	  leave from this court to appeal      directlyagainst the    order of the Labour Appellate   Tribunalof India. These two appeals preferred -one     on      thecertificate    granted by theHigh  Court and the  other	 onthe  strength  of the special leave granted by	this  Court,have been heard together.The  main  controversy,	 as already  indicated,	 is  on	 thequestion of the maintainability of the application under cl.5(a)  of  the Government order.	 This order  issued  by	 theGovernor  of the United Provinces in exercise of the  powersconferred on him by the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act,	1947'contains  detailed provisions as regards the settlement  ofindustrial  disputes.	The first clause  provides  for	 theconstitution  of  Conciliation Boards  consisting  of  threemembers.    Clause  2  provides	 for  the   appointment	  ofconciliation   officers	 for  specified	 areas.	  Clause   5contains  the  important provisions as	to  commencement  ofproceedings  before  the Boards.  It provides  two  ways  ofstarting these proceedings: one mentioned in cl.(b) is by anorder  made  in	 writing by the	 Provincial  Government	 forenquiring  into a matter in respect of which  an  industrialdispute has arisen or is likely to arise.  The other  methodis  by means of an application by an employee or  recognisedassociation  of	 employers  or-registered  trade  union	  ofworkers or where there is190no such registered trade union the representatives not	morethan  five  in	number duly elected by	a  majority  of	 theworkmen in the industry.  Any of these may by an applicationin  writing  move the Board to inquire	into  an  industrialdispute.  This provision is in cl. 5(a) which may be set outin full:-	      "5(a).  Any employee or recognised association	      of  employers  or registered  Trade  Union  of	      workmen or, where no registered trade union of	      workmen  exists in any particular	 concern  or	      industry,	 the representatives not  more	than	      five in number of the workmen in such  concern	      or  industry duly elected in this behalf by  a	      majority	of the workmen, in such	 concern  or	      industry as the case may be, at a meeting held	      for the purpose, may by application in writing	      move the Board to enquire into any  industrial	      dispute.	The application shall clearly  state	      the  industrial dispute or disputes which	 are	      to be the subject of such inquiry."Clause 10 provides for the constitution of industrial courtsfor specified areas.  Clause 12 provides for appeals to thisCourt  against	the  awards made by the	 Board.	  The  otherclauses	 up to clause 22 deal with the powers and  procedureof the Board or the Industrial Court and with the duties  ofemployers to permit certain meetings to be held.  Then comescl. 23 which is in these words:-	      "Save  with  the	written	 permission  of	 the	      Regional	  Conciliation	 Officer   or	 the	      Additional   Regional   Conciliation   Officer	      concerned, irrespective of the fact whether an	      inquiry	is   pending   before	a   Regional	      Conciliation Board or the Provincial Concilia-	      tion Board or an appeal is pending before	 the	      Industrial  Court, no employer, his  agent  or	      manager,	shall during the continuance  of  an	      inquiry  or appeal, discharge or	dismiss	 any	      workman."Section	 24  provides  that every order	 made  or  directionissued	under the provisions of this Government order  shallbe  final and conclusive.  Clause 26 provides for  penaltiesfor  contravention  or an attempt to contravene any  of	 theprovisions of the order.A consideration of the scheme of this legislation191makes it clear that while two modes are provided in  clauses5(a)  and  5(b)	 for the  commencement	of  proceedings	 forsettlement  of	industrial  disputes  generally,  a  specialprovision  is  made  in	 clause 23 that	 if  an	 enquiry  isproceeding  before  a  Regional Conciliation  Board  or	 theProvincial Conciliation Board or an appeal is pending beforethe Industrial Court, no workman shall be discharged  exceptwith  the  written permission of the  Regional	ConciliationOfficer	 or the Additional Conciliation	 Officer  concerned.The  consequence  in  cl.  26 is  that	if  any	 workman  isdischarged  or	dismissed  during the  continuance  of	suchenquiry or appeal without such permission the employer shallbe  liable  to fine or to imprisonment not  exceeding  threeyears	or   both.   The  heavy	 punishment   provided	 forcontravention of the order shows the importance attached  bythe  legislating  authority to the directions given  by	 theOrder.In  deciding  whether  an application  under  cl.  5(a)	 wasmaintainable in the facts of the present case two  questionsarise for consideration.  The first is whether an industrialdispute comes into existence as soon as an employer  decideson the dismissal of some of the workmen and proposes to giveeffect	to such decision.  One view is that it is  only	 theparty  aggrieved by the proposed dismissal, in other  words,the  workmen,  who by objecting to the same  can  raise	 thedispute and that the employer cannot by his own proposal  todismiss the workmen be heard to say that a dispute had	comeinto  existence	 even  before the workmen had  a  chance  toobject to the dismissal.  The contrary view which has  foundfavour with Mr. Justice Chaturvedi of the High Court is thateven  at  the  stage the employer proposes  to	dismiss	 hisworkmen	 it is a case of contemplated  non-employment  whichwill  come within the expression "industrial dispute".	 Theother  question is whether the provisions of cl. 23  of	 theorder  bar  an application under cl. 5(a)  during  the	con-tinuance  of  any enquiry before the  Regional	ConciliationBoard  or  the Additional Conciliation Board or	 during	 thependency  of the appeal before the Industrial Court.   Thereis no dispute that on June 13,1921950  when  the application under clause 5(a)  was  made  aninquiry	 was in fact pending before a Conciliation  Officer.It  appears that on July 9, 1949 the Governor of the  UnitedProvinces made an order directing the Labour Commissioner ofthe United Provinces or a Conciliation Officer nominated  byhim in this behalf to redstart the adjudication	 proceedingsbetween	 the  J. K. Cotton & Weaving Mills Co.,	 and  S.  N.Shukla, a dismissed employee of the concern.  The  Adjudica-tor was directed to conclude the adjudication and submit hisaward	by  August  15,1949.   The  time  was  extended	  bysubsequent  orders-first  to November 15, 1949 and  then  toMarch  31,  1950, again to June 30, 1950 and  thereafter  toSeptember  30,	1950.	It is true that at  the	 time  theseorders extending time for submission of award were made	 theGovernor  had  no authority to make these orders  and  theseorders were invalid.  They were validated by the  provisionsof  s.	3 of the U.P. Act XXIII of 1953.  In  view  of	thisposition  of  the law the learned Attorney-General  has	 notdisputed  that on June 13, 1950 when the  application  undercl.  5(a) was made an enquiry was actually pending before  aConciliation  Officer.	Consequently, before the  managementcould  make any order discharging or dismissing any  of	 itsworkmen	 it was required by cl. 23 to obtain permission	 forthe  same  from	 the  Regional	Conciliation  Officer.	 Thequestion is whether in spite of this provision in cl. 23 theemployer  could make and the Board entertain an	 applicationunder cl. 5(a) on this question of proposed dismissal.We  propose  to consider this question first  and  for	thatpurpose	 assume	 that  an  industrial  dispute	comes	intoexistence  as  soon as the employer decides to	dismiss	 hisworkmen	 and  proposes to do so and that ordinarily  he	 canmake an application in such a dispute to the Board under theprovisions  of	cl. 5(a).  If such  application	 is  decidedagainst the employer and no permission is given to make	 theproposed  dismissal, no difficulty arises.  What however  isthe  position if on such an application the Board  makes  anorder granting the employer the requisite permission to			    193dismiss	 his  workmen?	 Under	cl.  24	 this  order  unlessmodified  in appeal will be final and conclusive  and  shallnot  be	 questioned  by any party thereto.  So	far  as	 theworkmen	 are concerned they will not be able to dispute	 thecorrectness of the order except in the mode provided in	 theGovernment  order itself.  What however is the	position  ofthe  employer  if  in pursuance of the	order  made  on	 hisapplication  under cl. 5(a) he discharges or  dismisses	 hisworkmen?   By doing so he will have clearly contravened	 theprovisions  of cl. 23, and will become liable to the  severepenalty	 provided  in  cl. 26-a, penalty  which	 might	evenextend to imprisonment up to three years.To  remove  this  incongruity, says  the  learned  Attorney-General, apply the rule of harmonious construction and	holdthat cl. 23 of the order has no application when an order ismade  on an application under cl. 6(a).	 On  the  assumptionthat  under cl. 5(a) an employer can raise a dispute  soughtto  be	created by his own proposed order  of  dismissal  ofworkmen	 there	is clearly this disharmony  as	pointed	 outabove between two provisions viz., cl. 5(a) and cl. 23;	 andundoubtedly  we	 have  to  apply  the  rule  of	  harmoniousconstruction.	In  applying  the rule however	we  have  toremember  that	to  harmonise is not  to  destroy.   In	 theinterpretation	of statutes the court,% always presume	thatthe  legislature inserted every part thereof for  a  purposeand  the  legislative intention is that every  part  of	 thestatute should have effect.  These presumptions will have tobe  made in the case of rule making authority also.  On	 theconstruction suggested by the learned Attorney-General it isobvious	 that by merely making an application under cl.	 (5)on  the	 allegation  that a dispute  has  arisen  about	 theproposed action to dismiss workmen the employer can in everycase escape the requirements of cl. 23 and if for one reasonor  other every employer when proposing a dismissal  prefersto  proceed under cl. 5(a) instead of making an	 applicationunder cl. 23, cl. 23 will be a dead letter.  A	constructionlike  this  which defeats the intention of the	rule  makingauthority in cl. 23 must, if possible, be avoided.25194It  is hardly necessary to mention that this rule in cl.  23was  made  with a definite purpose.  The provision  here  isvery similar to s. 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act  beforeits  amendment,	 though there are some differences.   It  iseasy to see however that the rule making authority in makingthis  rule  was anxious to prevent as far  as  possible	 therecrudescense  of  fresh  disputes  between  employers	 andworkmen	 when  some  dispute was already  pending  and	thatpurpose will be directly defeated if a fresh dispute isallowed to be raised under cl. 5(a) in the very cases  wherecl. 23 in terms applies. There	will be complete harmony however if we hold  insteadthat  cl.  5(a) will apply in all other	 cases	of  proposeddismissal  or discharge except where an inquiry	 is  pendingwithin	the meaning of cl. 23.	We reach the same result  byapplying  another  well	 known	rule  of  construction	thatgeneral provisions yield to special provisions.	 The learnedAttorney-General  seemed to suggest that while this rule  ofconstruction  is applicable to resolve the conflict  betweenthe  general provision in one Act and the special  provisionin  another Act, the rule cannot apply in resolving  a	con-flict  between	general and special provisions in  the	samelegislative  instrument.   This	 suggestion  does  not	findsupport	 in  either principle or authority.  The  rule	thatgeneral	 provisions should yield to specific  provisions  isnot  an arbitrary principle made by lawyers and	 judges	 butsprings from the common understanding of men and women	thatwhen  the  same person gives two directions one	 covering  alarge number of matters in general and another to only	someof them his intention is that these latter directions shouldprevail	 as regards these while as regards all the rest	 theearlier	 direction should have effect.	In Pretty  v.  Solly(1) (quoted in Craies on Statute Law at p. 205, 5th Edition)Romilly,  M.R.	mentioned the rule thus:"The rule  is,	thatwhenever  there	 is  a particular enactment  and  a  generalenactment  in the same statute and the latter, taken in	 itsmost  comprehensive  sense, would overrule the	former,	 theparticular enactment(1)  (1859) 26 Beav. 606, 610.195must  be operative, and the general enactment must be  takento  affect only the other parts of the statute to  which  itmay  properly apply".  The rule has been applied as  betweendifferent  provisions of the same statute in numerous  casessome  of which only need be mentioned: De Winton  v.  Brecon(1), Churchill v. Crease (2), United States v. Chase (3) andCarroll v. Greenwich Ins.  CO. (4).Applying this rule of construction that in cases of conflictbetween	 a  specific provision and a general  provision	 thespecific  provision prevails over the general provision	 andthe  general provision applies only to such cases which	 arenot covered by the special provision, we must hold that	 cl.5(a)  has  no  application  in	a  case	 where	the  specialprovisions of cl. 23 are applicable.As in the present case an inquiry was in fact pending beforea  Conciliation	 Officer, cl. 23 applied in respect  of	 anydischarge  or dismissal of a workman and the employer  couldnot  take advantage of cl. 5(a) of the Government Order	 andsuch  an application could not in law be entertained by	 theBoard.In  view  of  this conclusion it is unnecessary	 for  us  toconsider  the other question that was raised, viz.,  whetheran  industrial dispute within the meaning of cl. 5(a)  comesinto  existence	 as  soon  as an  employer  decides  on	 thedismissal of some of its workmen and proposes to give effectto such a decision.On  the above conclusions we hold that the Labour  AppellateTribunal  of India rightly held that the application  undercl.  5(a)  filed on June 13, 1950 was not  maintainable	 andrightly	 set aside the awards of the Conciliation Board	 andthe  Industrial Court.	The appeal against the order of	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal of India is therefore dismissed.As  we have already pointed out above the order made by	 theappellate  Bench of the High Court in the writ petition	 wasbased  on its acceptance of the preliminary  objection	thatthe  records  of  the Labour  Appellate	 Tribunal  being  inCalcutta could not be(1)(1858) 28 L.J. Ch. 598.(2)(1828) 5 Bing. 177.(3)(1890) 135 U.S. 255.(4)(1905) 199 U.S. 401.196reached by any writ of the Allahabad High Court.  In view ofour  conclusion that the application under cl. 5(a) was	 notmaintainable,  the appellant was on merits not	entitled  toany  writ  and on that ground the appeal  against  the	HighCourt's order must also be dismissed.It is unnecessary to consider the question whether the	HighCourt  was  right  in its view as  regards  the	 preliminaryobjection and we express no opinion on the same.Both the appeals are accordingly dismissed with costs to thecontesting  respondent.	  There will be one set	 of  hearingfee.Appeals dismissed.