PETITIONER:MINERAL DEVELOPMENT LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHAR AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/12/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  468		  1960 SCR  (2) 909 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC 705	 (19) RF	    1967 SC 829	 (6) F	    1981 SC 873	 (24) RF	    1988 SC1099	 (6)ACT:Fundamental  Rights-Restriction	 by  State imposed  by	law-Reasonableness-Objective  test-Duty of	Court-Constitutionalvalidity-Bihar Mica Act, 1947, s. 2.5(1)(C)-Constitution  ofIndia, Arts. 19(1)(f), (g) and 19(5) & (6).HEADNOTE:The  Secretary	of the Government of Bihar  in	the  RevenueDepartment  issued  a notice to the petitioner	company	 whowere the lessees of mining lease, charging it with violationof  ss.	 10,  12 and 14 Of the Bihar  Mica  Act,  1947,	 andcalling upon it to show cause why action should not be takento  cancel its licence which was being issued from  year  toyear for mining Mica.  The company asked for particulars  ofthe alleged violation of the provisions of the Act from	 theGovernment which was furnished.	 The company sent a  writtenrepresentation	to the Government denying  the	allegations.After  two years of the said representation, the  Governmentissued a notification cancelling the78610petitioner  company's  licence under the  provisions  of  S.25(1)(c) Of the Act.The  company  moved  the  Supreme Court	 under	Art.  32  Ofthe  Constitution for the issue of a writ of  certiorari  toquash the      said   order  of	 the  Government  of   Biharcancelling the licence and for the issue of writ of mandamusdirecting them to forbear     from giving effect to the saidorder  of  cancellation,  on  ground  inter  alia  that	 theGovernment acted illegally and with mala fides and infringedthe  fundamental rights of the petitioner under Art.  19(1),sub-cls.  (f)  and  (g) of the	Constitution  and  that	 theprovision  of  S.  25(1)(c) of the  Bihar  Mica	 Act,  1947,operate	 as an unreasonable restriction on the	said  right,and   even  if	the  said  section  did	 not  infringe	 itsfundamental   rights,  the  order  of  the   Government	  incancelling  the	 lease	without affording  it  a  reasonableopportunity  to show cause within the meaning of the  secondproviso to that section, infringed its fundamental rights.Held,  that the provisions of S. 25(1)(c) of the Bihar	MicaAct,  does  not impose an unreasonable	restriction  on	 thefundamental  rights  under  Art.  19(1)(f)  &  (g)  of	 theConstitution.The restrictions which a State is authorised to impose undercls.  (5)  &  (6) of Art. 19 of	 the  Constitution,  in	 theinterest  of the general public over the fundamental  rightsof a citizen under sub-cls. (f) & (g) of clause (1) of	Art.19  must  be reasonable and must not depend  upon  the	mereuncontrolled discretion of the executive.It is the duty of this Court to decide having regard to	 theconcept	 and principle of reasonableness which is  correctlylaid  down  in The State of Madras v. V. G. Row,  whether  aparticular  Statute  satisfied	the  objective	test  of   "reasonableness.	 "The  statutory conditions of the Bihar Mica Act, subject  towhich  the licence is given are, obviously,  reasonable	 andnecessary  for regulating the mining industry- The power  tocancel	the  licence which is conferred	 on  the  Governmentunder S. 25 Of the said Act is only to achieve the object ofthe Act, i.e., to enforce provisions which have been enactedin the interest of the public, and that power is exercisableon  the basis of objective tests and in accordance with	 theprinciples of natural justice.The general proposition that whenever discretionary power isconferred  on a State Government or the Union Government  bylaw, the said law must- necessarily operate as a  reasonablerestriction on a fundamental right, negatives the concept offundamental  rights for the simple reason  that	 fundamentalrights are guaranteed against State action.  Therefore,	 theconferment  of such a power on the State Government and	 notupon a subordinate officer is only one of the considerationsthat  may enter into the judicial verdict on  reasonablenessof a particular law and the reasonableness of that law fallsto  be	decided	 only  on  the	cumulative  effect  of	 thecircumstances under which such power is conferred.		     611The concept of " reasonable opportunity " is an elastic	 oneand is not susceptible of easy and precise definition.	Whatis  reasonable	opportunity under one set  of  circumstancesneed not be reasonable under different circumstances.  It isthe  duty  of the Court to ascertain in	 each  case,  havingregard	to  the	 overall picture before it,  to	 come  to  aconclusion  whether  reasonable opportunity is	given  to  aperson to " show cause.	 "Tribunals  or  authorities  who are  entrusted	with  quasi-judicial  functions  are  as  much  bound  by  the  relevantprinciples  governing the " doctrine of bias " as any  otherjudicial tribunal.In  the instant case the Revenue Minister had personal	biaswithin	the meaning of the decisions and he should not	havetaken part in either initiating the enquiry or in cancellingthe licence.  Neither the necessary conditions to enable theGovernment  to take action under S. 25(1)(c) Of the Act	 hasbeen  established  nor	the State  Government  has  affordedreasonable opportunity to the petitioner within the  meaningof the second proviso to S. 25(1) Of the Act.State of Madras v. V. G. Row, [1952] S.C.R. 597, followed.Thakur	Raghubir  Singh	 v. Court of  Wards,  Ajmer,  [1953]S.C.R. 1049, held inapplicable.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL  JURISDICTION:	 Petition No. 159  of  1956.Petition   under  Art. 32 of the Constitution of  India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.N.   C. Chatterjee and D. N. Mukherjee, for the petitioners.Mahabir	 Prasad,  Advocate-General for the State  of  Bihar,Bajrang Sahai and R. C. Prasad, for the respondents.1959.  December 15.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySUBBA RAO J.-This petition under Art. 32 of the Constitutionis  filed  by the Mineral Development  Limited	against	 theState  of  Bihar  and another for the issue  of	 a  writ  ofcertiorari  to	quash the order of the Government  of  Bihardated September 7, 1955, cancelling the petitioner's licenceand  for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing  them  toforbear	  from	 giving	 effect	 to  the   said	  order	  ofcancellation.One Raja Bahadur Kamakshya Narain Singh (hereinafter  calledthe  proprietor) was the proprietor of Ramgarh and  Serampurestates in the district of612Hazaribagh in the State of Bihar.  On December 29,1947,	 thesaid	proprietor    executed	  a    mining	 lease	  infavour of the Mineral Development Limited (herein-     aftercalled the Company) for all minerals in respect	  of   3,026villages for a period of 999 years.  On or about January  3,1951,  the  Deputy  Commissioner,  Hazaribagh,	granted	 theCompany a licence bearing No. H.L.	261-H  in form '  B'under  s. 6 of the Bihar Mica Act, 1947 (hereinafter  calledthe Act) for mining mica.  The licence was renewed from yearto  year  by  the relevant authority and  the  last  of	 therenewals expired on December 31, 1954.	The Secretary to theGovernment  of	Bihar  in the Revenue  Department  issued  anotice dated March 7, 1953, to the Company charging it	withviolations of ss. 10, 12 and 14 of the Act and calling	uponit  to show cause within 15 days of the receipt of the	saidnotice why action should not be taken to cancel the  licenceissued in favour of the Company.  By letter dated March	 20,1953, the Company requested the Secretary to the Government,Revenue	 Department,  Bihar,  to furnish  the  Company	withparticulars  of the alleged violations of the provisions  ofthe  Act.   After  a  reminder was  sent,  the	Company	 wasfurnished  by  the Government with the	particulars  by	 itsletter	dated  May 1, 1953.  On or about May 17,  1953,	 theCompany	 sent  a written representation	 to  the  Governmentdenying	 the allegations made against it and explaining	 howthe Company complied with the provisions of the Act.   Afterthis  letter, no further correspondence passed	between	 theGovernment and the Company.  But on September 7, 1955, i.e.,two  years  after the said  representation,  the  Governmentissued	a notification cancelling the Company's licence	 No.261-H of 1951.	The result of this notification was that theCompany was prevented from carrying on the mining operationsin large tracts of land it had taken on lease from the	saidproprietor.'The Company in its petition has stated that it had  investeda large sum of about Rs. 16 lakhs to obtain the mining leaseand  spent a considerable sum in prospecting and  developingthe  mines, that by the arbitrary act of the  Government  itcould not work the			    613mines, that a large number of labourers had been thrown	 outof  employment	and that in the result it was being  put  toheavy  loss.   It  has filed the present  petition  for	 thereliefs	 mentioned  already for the reasons,  among  others,that the Government acted illegally and with mala fldes	 andinfringed  the	fundamental rights of the  petitioner  underArt.  19(1), sub cls. (f) and (g) of the Constitution.	 Thefirst  respondent to the petition is the State of Bihar	 andthe  second  respondent is the Additional Secretary  to	 theGovernment of Bihar in the Revenue Department.	They filed acounter denying the allegations made against the  Governmentand  particularly  stated that they had acted  within  theirrights	and cancelled the licence in strict compliance	withthe provisions of the Act.The  arguments	of Mr. Chatterjee, learned Counsel  for	 thepetitioner,  may be broadly formulated under  the  followingfour heads: (i) The Bihar Mica Act, 1947, as amended by	 theBihar Mica (Amendment) Act, 1949, is ultra vires for want ofconstitutional	competence; (ii) the provisions of -the	 Actare  repugnant	to the provisions of the Central Act  53  of1948,  and, therefore, to the extent of such repugnancy	 theformer	Act should yield to the latter Act, with the  resultthat  the licensing provisions under the Act ceased to	haveany  legal effect; (iii) the petitioner has the	 fundamentalrights	under Art. 19(1)(f) and (g) of the  Constitution  toacquire,  hold and dispose of his property and to  carry  onany  occupation, trade or business in respect  thereof,	 andthat the provisions of s. 25(1)(c) of the Act operate as  anunreasonable  restriction  on  the  said  rights,  and	 aretherefore  void; and (iv) even if the said section  did	 notinfringe his fundamental rights, the order of the Governmentin  cancelling	the lease without affording  him  reasonableopportunity  to show cause within the meaning of the  secondproviso to that section infringed his fundamental right.The  first  two	 contentions need not detain  us;  for,	 thepetition  may  be disposed of on the basis of the  last	 twocontentions.614The first question, therefore, is whether the provisions  ofs.  25 of the Act infringe the fundamental rights	  ofthe  petitioner under sub-cls. (f) and (g) of Art. 19(1)  ofthe  Constitution.  The said provisions of the	Constitutionread:Article 19: (1) All citizens shall have the right-(f)  to acquire, hold and dispose of property; and(g)  to	 practise  any	profession,  or	 to  carry  on	 anyoccupation, trade or business."Under sub-cls. (f) and (g) of Art. 19(1), every citizen	 hasthe  right to acquire, hold and dispose of property, and  topractise  any  profession, or to carry	on  any	 occupation,trade  or  business.   But  cls. (5)  and  (6)	of  Art.  19authorize  the State to make a law imposing restrictions  inthe interest of the general public, but the restrictions  soimposed	 must be reasonable.  The concept of  reasonablenesshas  been  clearly explained by Patanjali Sastri,  C.J.,  inState of Madras v. V. G. Row(1) as under:."  It is important in this context to bear in mind that	 thetest  of  reasonableness,  wherever  prescribed,  should  beapplied to each individual statute impugned, and no abstractstandard,  or general pattern of reasonableness can be	laiddown  as applicable to all cases.  The nature of  the  rightalleged	 to have been infringed, the underlying	 purpose  ofthe restrictions imposed, the extent and urgency of the evilsought	to  be remedied thereby, the  disproportion  of	 theimposition,  the prevailing conditions at the  time,  shouldall enter into the judicial verdict."These  observations, if we may say so with  great  'respect,lay  down the correct principle.  It follows that it is	 theduty of this Court to decide, having regard to the aforesaidconsiderations and such others, whether a particular statutesatisfies  the objective test of " reasonableness  ".  Whilenot disputing the general principle, the learned Counsel forthe  petitioner	 strongly relied upon the decision  of	thisCourt in Thakur Raghubir Singh v. Court of Wards, Ajmer	 (2)in support of his contentions.	The facts in that case(1) [1952] S.C.R. 597. 607.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 1049, 1055.615were:s. 112 of the Ajmer Tenancy and Land Records Act  (XLIIof 1950) provided that " if a landlord habitually  infringesthe   rights  of  a  tenant  under  this  Act,	 he   shall,notwithstanding	  anything  in	section	 7  of	 the   AjmerGovernment  Wards Regulation, 1888 (1 of 1888) be deemed  tobe  a  'landlord  who  is disqualified	to  manage  his	 ownproperty'  within  the	meaning of section  6  of  the	saidRegulation  and	 his property shall be liable  to  be  takenunder  the  superintendence  of the  Court  of	Wards."	 Thedetermination of the question whether a landlord bad  habit-ually  infringed the rights of his tenants was left  to	 theCourt of Wards.	 The petitioner whose estate was taken	overby  the Court of Wards questioned the validity of the  powerconferred  on the Court of Wards.  This Court held that	 thesaid  section was void as being an unreasonable	 restrictionon  the	 rights	 in property as	 the  restriction  made	 theenjoyment  of that right depend upon the mere discretion  ofthe executive.	Mahajan, J., as he then was, observed :" When a law deprives a person of possession of his propertyfor  an indefinite period of time merely on  the  subjectivedetermination of an executive officer, such a law can, on noconstruction of the word "reasonable" be described as comingwithin that expression, because it completely negatives	 thefundamental right by making its enjoyment depend on the merepleasure  and  discretion  of  the  executive,	the  citizenaffected  having no right to have recourse for	establishingthe contrary in a civil court."In that case the combined operation of s. 112 of Act XLII of1950 and the provision's of Regulation 1of 1888 was that theCourt  of Wards could in its own discretion and on  its	 ownsubjective  determination  assume  superintendence  of	 theproperty  of a landlord who habitually infringed the  rightsof his tenants.	 The Act also did not provide any  machineryfor determining the question whether a certain landlord	 wasa person who habitually infringed the rights of his tenants.Even   the  condition  precedent  for  the   assumption	  ofsuperintendence by the Court616of   Wards,  viz.,  the	 previous  sanction  of	 the   ChiefCommissioner,	was  also  a  matter  entirely	resting	  onhis  discretion.   It will be seen that under that  Act	 theentire question was left to the unbridled discretion of	 theexecutive  without providing for any machinery to  ascertainthe  grounds for its action.  That decision cannot apply  tothe facts of the present case as they	differ	in  materialrespects  from	those  considered  by  this  court  in	thatdecision. The short question, therefore, is whether s. 25 of the	 Actplaces	 unreasonable	restrictions   on   the	  petioner'sfundamental  rights  under  Art. 19(1)(f)  and	(g)  of	 theConstitution.  It is conceded that the State can make a	 lawimposing  restrictions,	 in the interest of the	 public,  oncitizens  in respect of their enjoyment of  mineral  rights;but the complaint is that the law which enables the State inits  uncontrolled  discretion to prevent the  owner  or	 thelessee	of such a field from enjoying his land or  leaseholdinterest or to carry on his mining operations permanently orfor  an indefinite period is unreasonable.  So stated  thereis plausibility in the argument.  But let us look at the lawmore  closely  to ascertain whether it suffers from  such  avice.The  Act  was passed in the year 1947 and was  amended	fromtime  to  time.	  The declared object of the  Act  is  "  toregulate  the possession and transport of, and	trading	 in,mica  in  the  Province of Bihar  ".  It  was  necessitated,presumably,  because  of  the  scarcity	 of  mica  and	 itsimportance in the industrial field, and for that reason	 forregulating home consumption and foreign export.	 The learnedCounsel for the petitioner did not controvert the  position,and   indeed  conceded	that  reasonable  restrictions	 canlegitimately  be  imposed on the mining	 operations  of	 thepetitioner.   Section 4 of the Act imposes a prohibition  onthe  possession	 of, and trading in, mica  without  licence,proprietor's  certificate, or digger's permit.	 Sections  5and  6	prescribe  a  machinery	 for  granting	proprietor'scertificate, miner's or dealer's licence.  Sections 10 to 12define the duties of licensees and registered proprietors inthe  matter  of	 keeping accounts  and	producing  them	 forinspection.  Section 14 prohibits			    617the  removal  of mica from one place to	 another  without  apass.	Sections  17, 19 and 21A impose	 penalties  for	 theinfringement of the provisions of the Act an the rules	madethereunder.   Section  22  to  24  deal	 with  miscellaneousmatters,  such	as the power Of a police officer  to  arrestwithout warrant persons guilty of an offence under this Act,to search, seize and detain mica removed without a pass etc.Then  comes  s.	 25. As the main  argument  of	the  learnedCounsel turns upon the provisions of s. 25, it is  necessaryto read the entire section, which is as follows :Section	 25.   "  (1) The State Government  may	 cancel	 thelicence	 or  proprietor's  certificate of  any	licensee  orregistered proprietor who-(a)  allows  his licence or proprietors certificate, as	 thecase  may  be, to be used on behalf of any other  person  asauthority  to-	buy or have in his possession or  sell	micaextracted from a mica mine or from a mica dump, or(b)  being  a  person  to whom a miner's  licence  has	beengranted	 extracts mica from a mine the particulars of  whichare  not  endorsed  on	his licence, or(c) is guilty of repeated failure to comply with any of	 theother provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder, or(d)  is	 convicted of an offence under Chapter XVII  of	 theIndian Penal Code committed in respect of mica:Provided that a licence or a proprietor's certificate  shallnot  be cancelled solely by reason of conviction from  whichthe  licensee or the registered proprietor has no  right  ofappeal or revision;Provided   further   that  a  licence  or   a	proprietor'scertificate  shall not be cancelled unless the	licensee  orthe proprietor has been furnished with the grounds for	suchcancellation and has been afforded reasonable opportunity toshow cause why his licence shall not be cancelled.(2)  A fresh licence or proprietor's certificate shall	not,without	 the previous sanction of the State  Government,  begranted to any licensee or registered79618proprietor  whose  licence or proprietor's  certificate	 hasbeen cancelled under this section."This  section embodies the severest punishment that  can  beimposed	 under	the Act on a licensee or a  proprietor.	  Itenables	 the  State Government to cancel the  licence.	 Thepower  is  entrusted to the highest executive in  the  Statewhich ordinarily can be relied upon to discharge its  dutieshonestly,  impartially	and in the interest  of	 the  publicwithout any extraneous considerations.	The section providesclearly ascertainable standards for the State Government  toapply to the facts of each case.  Clauses (a), (b), (c)	 and(d)  of s. 25(1) describe with sufficient particularity	 thenature of the defaults to be committed and the abuses to  beguilty	of  by the licensee in order to	 attract  the  penalprovisions.  Clause (c) with which we are directly concernedembodies the last step that can be resorted to by the  StateGovernment  to eliminate the recalcitrant operator from	 thefield  of mining industry if only he is guilty	of  repeatedfailures to comply with any of the provisions of the Act  orthe rules made thereunder other than those mentioned in	 theother  clauses of the section.	The discretion of the  StateGovernment  under  cl. (c) of s. 25(1) is hedged in  by	 twoimportant restrictions: viz., (i) the failure to comply withthe  provisions	 of the Act or the  rules  made	 thereunder,should	be a repeated failure and not a mere  sporadic	one,i.e., the defaulter must be a recalcitrant one; (ii)  beforecancelling  the licence the State Government  should  affordreasonable opportunity to the licensee to show cause why hislicence	  should   not	be  cancelled.	 That	apart,	 thecancellation  of the licence has not the effect	 of  barringthe  licensee  or the proprietor from applying for  a  freshlicence.  The only condition imposed is that a fresh licenceshall not be granted to him without the previous sanction ofthe  State Government.	In the foregoing circumstances,	 canit  be	said  that  the	 section  imposes  an	unreasonablerestriction  on	 the petitioner's fundamental rights  ?	 Thestatutory  conditions subject to which the licence is  givenare, obviously, reasonable			    619and  necessary	for  regulating the  mining  industry.	 Theprovisions of the Act, as we have already pointed out,	wereonly designed to compel a licensee to keep accounts, producethem  before the authorities when required, to	prevent	 himfrom  removing mica from the  fields without  passes  and toimpose penalties for contravening the rules.  The only	viceis said to lie in the power to cancel a licence conferred onthe  State  Government under s. 25 of the  Act.	  The  powergiven to the State Government is only to achieve the  objectof the Act i.e., to enforce the said provisions, which	havebeen enacted in the interest of the public; and that  power,as  we	have  indicated,  is exercisable  on  the  basis  ofobjective  tests  and in accordance with the  principles  ofnatural	 justice.   We,	 cannot,  therefore,  hold  that  s.25(1)(c)  of the Act imposes an unreasonable restriction  onthe petitioner's fundamental rights under Art. 19(1)(f)	 and(g) of the Constitution.Before leaving this part of the case, we must make it  clearthat  we  do not intend to lay down as	a  proposition	thatwhenever  discretionary	 power	is  conferred  on  a   StateGovernment or the Union Government by law, the said law mustnecessarily  operate  as  a  reasonable	 restriction  on   afundamental right.  Such a general proposition negatives theconcept	 of  fundamental rights for the simple	reason	thatfundamental  rights,  are guaranteed against  State  action.Therefore,  the	 conferment  of such a power  on  the  StateGovernment and not upon a subordinate officer is only one ofthe considerations that may enter into the judicial  verdicton   the  reasonableness  of  a	 particular  law   and	 thereasonableness	of that law falls to be decided only on	 thecumulative  effect  of the circumstances  under	 which	suchpower is conferred.The  next question is, did the State Government comply	withthe  provision of s. 25(1)(c), read with the second  provisothereto,  of  the  Act ? Under the said	 proviso  the  StateGovernment  can cancel a licence after affording  reasonableopportunity  to the licensee to show cause why	his  licenceshould	not  be cancelled.  This proviso  confers  a  quasi-judicial power on the620State Government.  The concept of " reasonable opportunity "is an elastic one and is not susceptible     of	  easy	 andprecise definition.  The decisions on cases  under Art.	 311of the Constitution afford illustrations of the applicationsof the said doctrine to varying	   situations.	  What	  isreasonable  opportunity under one set of circumstances	neednot be reasonable under different circumstances.  It is	 theduty  of the Court to ascertain in each case, having  regardto  the overall picture before it, to come to  a  conclusionwhether	 reasonable  opportunity is given to a person  "  toshow  cause" within the meaning of the second proviso to  s.25(1)  of  the	Act.   Tribunals  or  authorities  who	 areentrusted with quasi-judicial functions are as much bound bythe  relevant principles governing the " doctrine of bias  "as  any	 other judicial tribunal.  This Court  in  a  recentdecision in Gullapalli Nageswara Rao v. The State of  AndhraPradesh (1) observed:"The principles governing  the "doctrine of bias"  vis-a-visjudicial tribunals are well-settled and they are: (i) no manshall be a judge in his own cause; (ii) justice	 should	 notonly be done but manifestly and undoubtedly seem to be done.The  two  maxims  yield the result that if  a  member  of  ajudicial  body is " subject to a bias (whether financial  orother) in favour of, or against, any party to a dispute,  oris in such a position that a bias must be assumed to  exist,he  ought  not	take  part in the decision  or	sit  on	 thetribunal"; and that ,any direct pecuniary interest,  howeversmall,	in the subject-matter of inquiry will  disqualify  ajudge, and any interest, though not pecuniary, will have thesame  effect, if it is sufficiently substantial to create  areasonable  suspicion  of bias".  The  said  principles	 areequally	 applicable  to	 authorities, though  they  are	 notcourts	of  justice or judicial tribunals, who have  to	 actjudicially   in	 deciding  the	rights	of   others,   i.e.,authorities  who  are empowered to  discharge  quasijudicialfunctions."In view of the foregoing principles the first question to beconsidered is whether in the present case the(1)  [1959] S.C.R. Supp. (1) 319.			    621authority   functioning	 for  the  State  Government-it	  isadmitted  that the then Revenue Minister of the	 State	madethe impugned order-had personal bias against the petitioner.Secondly, we will have to scrutinize the record to ascertainwhether	 reasonable opportunity was given to the  petitionerto show cause or whether it was denied that right.  Thirdly,we will have to ascertain whether the State Government foundthat the petitioner was guilty of repeated failure to complywith  any  of the other provisions of the Act or  the  rulesmade  thereunder and cancelled the licence on the  basis  ofthat finding.  It may be mentioned that the learned AdvocateGeneral,  who  appeared before us on behalf  of	 the  State,submitted  that	 the State Government  exercised  its  powerunder s. 25(1)(c) of the Act.The notice to show cause was issued by the State  Governmentto the petitioner on March 7, 1953.  The licence granted  infavour	of  the	 petitioner  was  cancelled  by	 the   StateGovernment  by	its notification dated	September  1,  1955.Admittedly, during this period Sri Krishna Ballav Sahay	 wasthe Revenue Minister of the Government of Bihar, and he	 wasin  charge of the department dealing with mines.  There	 waspolitical  rivalry  between the said Minister and  Sri	RajaBahadur	 Kamakshya Narain Singh, the ex-landlord of  Ramgarhand  Serampur  estates in the district	of  Hazaribagh,	 wholeased the lands in question to the petitioner.	 The case ofthe  State  is that the said lease was benami only  for	 thesaid proprietor; and the case of the petitioner is that	 thewife of the proprietor, Rani Lalita Rajya Luxmi Devi, is theregistered  share  holder  of  the  Company.   The  questionwhether	 the lease is only benami for the proprietor or	 notis  now in dispute in title suit No. 53 of 1954	 pending  onthe file of the court of the Subordinate Judge,	 Hazaribagh.We  shall,  therefore, assume for the purpose of  this	casethat there is a dispute on the question of title, the  StateGovernment  asserting that the lease is only benami for	 theproprietor and the petitioner claiming to be the real lesseeand  the  wife	of the proprietor only	a  registered  shareholder of the622Company.    Whichever  version	is  true,  the	 proprietor,directly or because of his wife, is very much interested  inthe Company,at any rate, the Government's case is that he isthe  owner.   It is alleged in the petition  that  the	saidproprietor  opposed  the  Revenue Minister  in	the  generalelection  held in 1952 to the Bihar Legislative Assembly  inthe constituency of Giridih and Barkagaon and defeated	him.It is also stated that before the said election, the RevenueMinister filed a criminal case against the proprietor in theDistrict  Court of Hazaribagh charging him under s.  500  ofthe  Indian Penal Code.	 The High Court in a judgment  datedApril  15, 1952, delivered in the petition to  transfer	 thesaid  case  to some other Court recorded the  admitted	factthat  there was political rivalry between the  Minister	 andthe proprietor.	 Ultimately, this Court transferred the saidcriminal  case	from  the State of Bihar to the	 file  of  aMagistrate's  Court  in Delhi on the ground that  there	 waspolitical rivalry between the two persons.  These facts	 arenot denied in the counter-affidavit filed by the State.	  Inthe  said counter-affidavit the following cryptic  statementoccurs:" That the allegations in para. 14(b) of the petition  aboutthe  alleged political rivalry between Sri Kamakshya  NarainSingh  and  Sri	 Krishna Ballav Sahay,	the  then  Minister,Revenue, has no bearing on the facts of this case so far  asthe  orders  of	 the Government are concerned  and  to	thatextent the allegations are denied."It  may,  therefore,  be  taken	 that  the  allegations	 of'personal bias of the Revenue Minister against the proprietoris not denied.	It is also not disputed that the proceedingsagainst the petitioner were started during the tenure of thesaid   Revenue	Minister  and  that  the  actual  order	  ofcancellation  was  made by him.	 We have  no  hesitation  inholding that the Revenue Minister had personal bias  againstthe  proprietor	 and that he was also acting on	 the  beliefthat the lease was only benami for the said proprietor.	 We,therefore, hold that the said Revenue Minister had  personalbias within the meaning of the decisions and he should			    623not  have taken part in either initiating the enquiry or  incancelling the licence.On  the	 basis	that s. 25 of the  Act	is  constitutionallyvalid,	the  question  is whether  the	provisions  of	thatsection	 have  been complied with in the present  case.	  Ifthey  were  not	 complied  with,  the  order  of  the  StateGovernment  made in derogation of the said provisions  wouldcertainly infringe the fundamental rights of the petitioner.The main objection to the validity of the impugned order  isthat  the  State Government did not  afford  the  petitionerreasonable opportunity to show cause why his licence  shouldnot  be	 -cancelled.   The  subject-matter  of	the   miningleasehold  interest  is in respect of 3,026 villages  for  aperiod	of 999 years.  It is alleged in the petition that  alarge  amount  of  about  Rs. 16 lakhs	were  spent  by	 thepetitioner  to	obtain the mining lease and  in	 addition  aconsiderable sum was spent in prospecting and developing themines.	 On March 7, 1953, the Government of  Bihar  throughits Secretary in - the Revenue Department issued a notice tothe petitioner asking it to show cause within 15 days of thereceipt of the said notice why action to cancel the  miner'slicence No. 261-H under s. 25(1)(c) of the Act should not betaken  by the Government.  It is stated in the	notice	thatthe petitioner committed "  violations of ss. 10, 12 and  14in respect of their mica godowns at Marhand and Sultana, ss.10 and 12, in respect of the godowns at Simaria and s. 10 inrespect	 of  Kowabar godowns and have thus  been  guilty  ofrepeated  failures  to comply with those provisions  of	 theBihar Mica Act, 1947." On receipt of this notice, the  peti-tioner	by  its	 letter	 dated March  20,  1953,  asked	 theGovernment to furnish it with particulars of the allegationscontained in the said notice and on March 27, 1953,  renewedits  request for the said particulars.	On May 1, 1953,	 theGovernment  sent  a  Memorandum No.  A/M1-8022/53R.  to	 thepetitioner Company giving the particulars of the  violationsof the provisions of the Act.  The subject of the memorandumis  described  as  " Repeated failure  to  comply  with	 theprovisions  of	the Bihar Mica Act, 1947."  The	 particularsshow that between December 3, 1952, and December 11, 1952,624the  Inspector of Mica Accounts inspected different  godownsof the petitioner and found contravention of the  provisionsof ss. 10, 12 and 14 of the Act. What is important to noticeis  that the inspection, though spread over a few days,	 wasreally	 one  inspection  of  different	 godowns   and	 theparticulars disclosed were comparatively trivial defaults incarrying  out  the provisions of the Act.  It  may  also  benoticed that one of the particulars related to an inspectionalleged to have been made on March 6, 1952; and, in  respectof  that  inspection,  the  petitioner	was  prosecuted	 andconvicted;  but	 the licence was renewed for  the  next	 twoyears  in spite of the said conviction.	 The result of	thatinspection  is,	 therefore,  not  germane  to  the   enquiryinitiated  by the notice dated March 7, 1953.  After  givingthe  particulars  the memorandum concludes., " it  is  clearthat  the  Company has been guilty of  repeated	 failure  tocomply with the provisions of the Bihar Mica Act, 1947 " andon these allegations the Company was directed to show  causewhy the licence should not be cancelled under s. 25(1)(b) ofthe  Act.  Section 25(1)(b) says that the  State  Governmentmay cancel the licence of any licensee who, " being a personto  whom a miners's licence has been granted  extracts	micafrom a mine the particulars of which are not endorsed on hislicence."  It  is admitted by the learned  Advocate  Generalthat the Government did not take action under cl. (b) of  s.25(1) and that the mention of that clause in the  memorandumwas  only a mistake for cl. (c) of s. 25(1) of the Act.	  OnMay  17, 1953, the petitioner submitted to the Government  adetailed  explanation  in  regard to  the  charges  levelledagainst it.  It premised its explanation with the  statementthat all the relevant books of accounts and stock books	 hadbeen  seized by the Inspector of Mica Accounts and  had	 notbeen  returned	in  spite  of  repeated	 requests  and	thattherefore it reserved its right to make further	 submissionswhen  the books were returned. It also pointed out  that  atthe  time  of  inspection it was not asked  to	explain	 thealleged irregularity in accordance with the usual  procedurein  regard  to such matters.  In then  proceeded  to  answerevery one of			    625the  allegations made against it.  The explanation given  bythe  Company appears to be plausible and the  contraventionsalleged,  even	if true, appear to be too  trivial  for	 thedrastic	 action taken by the State.  In 1954 the  Governmentfiled  a suit against the said proprietor for a	 declarationthat  the  various companies brought into existence  by	 himwere bogus ones and the various transactions entered into byhim were all benami for him.  After the explanation given bythe  petitioner, there was a lull for more than	 two  years.The State Government neither returned the account books	 norinvited	 the  petitioner  to  make  further  submissions  byallowing  it  to  look	into  the  accounts  seized  by	 theauthorities  concerned.	 Suddenly, on September 7,  1955,  anotification  was issued to the effect that the Governor  ofBihar  was pleased to cancel the petitioner's  licence.	  Itwas also directed to stop operating the mica mines forthwithand  to produce the books of account relating to  the  abovemines in respect of their godowns on September 12, 1955.From the foregoing narration of facts it is obvious that thelicence affecting rights of great magnitude was cancelled tosay the least, for trivial reasons.  The enquiry was held bythe  department	 headed by the Minister	 who  was  obviouslybiased	 against  the  petitioner.   Some   technical	non-compliances  of	 the rules alleged to have  been  discoveredduring	the inspection of certain godowns were given  as  anexcuse	to withdraw the licence no opportunity was given  tothe  petitioner to inspect its accounts and to	explain	 thealleged-defaults with reference to the accounts.  After	 thepetitioner  gave  its reply, a sense of false  security	 wascreated	 in the petitioner and after a period of  two  yearsthe  Government	 issued	 the  notification  cancelling	 thelicence.   Meanwhile,  as a second string to  the  bow,	 thestate filed a suit against the proprietor for a	 declarationthat the lease was benami and for other reliefs.  The hiddenhand  of the Revenue Minister can be seen in  this  enquiry.The  proceedings were started because of  political  rivalrybetween	 the  proprietor and the Revenue  Minister.   Thoughheavy  stakes were involved, the enquiry was conducted in  amanner which80626did  not  give	any real opportunity to	 the  petitioner  toexplain	 its  conduct and to disprove the  allegations	madeagainst it; and the order of cancellation of the licence wasmade admittedly by the same Revenue Minister, who was behindthe enquiry.  In the circumstances, we	must  hold  that  noreasonable  opportunity was given to the  petitioner  withinthe meaning of the second proviso to s. 25(1) of the Act.That  apart,  the  State  Government did  not  find  on	 thematerial that the petitioner was guilty of repeated  failureto  comply  with  any of the provisions	 of  the  Act.	 Theparticulars furnished by the Government did not disclose anysuch  repeated	failure.   Under s.  25(1)(c)  of  the	Act,repeated failure to comply with any of the provisions of theAct  is	 a  necessary condition for the	 cancellation  of  alicence.   Unless  there  is  repeated	failure	 within	 themeaning of that clause the State Government has no power  tocancel	the  licence  under the said  clause.	That  apart,neither in the notice initiating the proceedings nor in	 thenotification cancelling the licence issued by the Governmentit  was stated that the petitioner was guilty of "  repeatedfailure " within the meaning of the said clause.  But in theparticulars furnished, the State Government alleged that thepetitioner  had	 been guilty of repeated failure  to  complywith the provisions of the Act, but the particulars did	 notsupport	 that  statement,  for, apart from  the	 default  ofMarch,	1952,  the  alleged  contravention  of	rules	werediscovered by the Inspector of Mica Accounts only during theinspection of some of the godowns between December 3,  1953,and  December 11, 1953.	 The result of that  one  continuousinspection  cannot  be	the  basis  for	 holding  that	 thepetitioner  was	 guilty of " repeated failure "	 within	 themeaning	 of  s. 25(1)(c) of the Act.  There  is	 nothing  onrecord to show that the petitioner was found to be guilty ofcontravention  of  any of the provisions of the Act  on	 anyother  occasion	 after	March, 1952.  Apart  from  the	onlyprosecution,  which we have already noticed, the  petitionerwas  not  prosecuted  for any  other  contravention  of	 theprovisions of ss. 10, 12 or 14 of the Act.  That prosecutioncannot be pressed into627service,  as  the State Government renewed the	licence	 for1953-54.   In  this state of record we must  hold  that	 therespondents  failed to prove that the petitioner was  guiltyof  repeated  failure to comply with the provisions  of	 theAct.   On  the basis of the said  finding,  the	 respondentswould have no power to take action under S. 25(1)(c) of	 theAct.The  foregoing	discussion  establishes	 that  neither	 thenecessary condition to enable the Government to take  actionunder  s. 25(1)(c) of the Act has been established  nor	 theState Government had afforded reasonable opportunity to	 thepetitioner  within the meaning of the second proviso  to  s.25(1).In  the	 result we accept the petition and issue a  writ  ofcertiorari against the respondents quashing the order of theGovernment  of	Bihar dated September  1,  1955,  cancellingminer's	 licence No. 261-H of 1951 granted in favour of	 thepetitioner.   The  respondents	will pay the  costs  to	 thepetitioner.Petition allowed.