PETITIONER:HARIHAR PRASAD SINGH AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:MUST.  OF MUNSHI NATH PRASADAND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:16/01/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR  305		  1956 SCR    1ACT:Occupancy Bight-If can be acquired by lessce from  mortgage-Presumption  of record of rights-How rebut  ted-Proprietor'sprivate land-Mode of proof-Bihar Tenancy Act (VIII of 1885),ss.  5(3) 21, 103-B, 120(2)-Transfer of Property Act (IV  of1882), s. 76(a) -Evidence Act (I of 1872), s. 90.HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 were  the  purchasers	of  the	 mortgagors'interests  in the agricultural lands in suit  and  depositedthe amounts due on the mortgages in court under s. 83 of theTransfer  of  Property	Act, which  were  withdrawn  by	 therepresentatives	 of  the mortgagees and the  mortgages	wereredeemed.  They were obstructed in taking khas possession ofthe  lands by tenants who were recorded as  "settledraiyats"in  the finally published record of rights and	brought	 thesuit  for  recovery  of possession  from  the  tenants	and,alternatively,	for damages against the	 representatives  ofthe mortgagees.	 The subordinate Judge found that the  landswere  the private lands of the proprietors and	the  tenantswere  inducted	not  by	 them  but  by	the  mortgagees	  inpossession by a lease for a term which was neither bona fidenor  binding  on  the  appellants and  passed  a  decree  inejectment.   On appeal, the High Court held that  the  landswere not the private lands of the mortgagors, the lease	 wasbona  fide and the recognition of the lessees as tenants  bythe mortgagees conferred on them rights of occupancy in	 thesuit  lands and dismissed the suit.  The respondents  reliedon the presumptions under ss. 103-B and 120(2) of the  BiharTenancy Act and contended that the recognition by the  mort-gagees	of their tenancy right had the effect of  conferringon them the rights of occupancy under the Act.Held, that an entry in the record of rights published  unders. 103-A of the Bihar Tenancy Act does not create rights butmerely raises a presumption under s. -103-B of the Act	thatsuch Tights exist, which can be rebutted if it can be  shownthat the materials on which it was based do not justify it.Bogha  Mower v. Ram Lakhan, ([1917] 27 Cal.  L.J.  107)	 andBakub  Ali  v.	Muhammad Ali ([1928]  49  Cal.	 L.J.  352),referred to.That where, as in the present case, no evidence was producedbefore	the authority who made the record, one has  only  toproduce2such  evidence as satisfies the court in order to rebut	 thepresumption.   This  is	 equally true  with  regard  to	 thepresumption  enacted by s. 120(2) of the Act with regard  tothe proprietor's private land.That  s. 120 of the Bihar Tenancy Act merely enacts  certainrules of evidence for determining whether a disputed land isthe  proprietor's "private" land.  It does not preclude	 theproprietor,  even if he cannot prove that he cultivated	 theland as such for 12 years prior to the date of the Act, fromadducing other evidence to show that the land is his privateland.Kisho  Prashad	Singh  v. Parmeshri  Prasad  Singh,  ([1923]I.L.R.	2  Pat. 414) and Bindeshwari Prasad Singh  v.  KishoPrasad Singh ([1926] L.R. 53 I.A. 164), relied on.That as the mortgagees were neither proprietors nor  tenure-holders	 as  defined  by  the  Bihar  Tenancy  Act,  personsinducted by them could not be raiyats within the meaning  ofs. 5(3) of the Act so as to acquire any rights of  occupancyunder s. 21 of the Act.Mahabir	 Gope v. Harbans Narain Singh ([1952]  S.C.R.  775),applied.Nor  could  the provisions of s. 76 (a) of the	Transfer  ofProperty  Act  be  of any avail.  Assuming  that  the  leasegranted	 by the mortgagees continued even after	 terminationof  the	 period	 fixed therein, that  could  confer  on	 thelessees	 no  more than the status of tenants  from  year  toyear,  in which case, their possession would cease with	 thetermination  of	 the  agricultural  year  during  which	 themortgages were redeemed.Rajendra Nath v. Dinu Prodhan (A.I.R. 1930 Cal. 738), disap-proved.Binod  Lal Pakrashi v. Kalu Pramanik ([1893] I.L.R. 20	Cal.708), doubted and held inapplicable.Pramatha  Noth	v.  Sashi Bhusan  (A.I.R.  1937	 Cal.  763),distinguished.Case-law discussed.Held further, that there is no presumption of genuineness infavour	of certified copies of documents under s. 90 of	 theEvidence Act, nor does that section authorise the raising ofa  presumption as to the existence of authority of an  agentto act for another.Basant v. Brijraj ([1935] L.R. 62 I.A. 180), referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 107 of 1953.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedthe 7th February 1949 of the Patna High Court in appeal fromoriginal decrees No. 230 and 268 of 1945 arising out of	 thedecree dated the 9th3day of August 1945 of the Second Court of Subordinate  Judgeat Monghyr in Title Suit No. 40 of 1943.P. K. Chatterjee, for the appellants.Tarachand  Brijmohanlal,  B.  C.  Misra	 and  S.  BarneshwarPrasad, for respondents Nos. 3 to 6, 20 to 25 and 27 to 39.1956.  January 16.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AYYAR J.-The properties which are the  subject-matter	of  this litigation are agricultural  lands  of	 theextent	of 18 acres 23 cents situate in Mauza Chowki.	Theyoriginally  belonged to Khiran Rai, Firangi Rai and  others,and  were usufructuarily mortgaged by them on  10-8-1900  toBabunath  Prasad  and  Babu Misri Lal  under  two  sudbharnadeeds,	Exhibits  2  and 3, for a sum  of  Rs.	1,600.	 Thedefendants  of	the first party are the	 representatives  ofthese  mortgagees.   In execution of a money  decree  passedagainst	 the  mortgagors, 9 acres 6 cents out of  the  abovelands  were  brought to sale on 11-6-1907 and  purchased  byRameshwar  Prasad  Singh, the undivided uncle of  the  firstplaintiff.  On 23-12-1913 the remaining extent of 9 acres 17cents  was  purchased  by  the.	 first	plaintiff  from	 themortgagors,  and thus, the plaintiffs who were members of  ajoint  Hindu family became entitled to all the interests  ofthe  mortgagors in the suit lands.  In 1943  they  depositedunder section 83 of the Transfer of Property Act the amountsdue on the mortgage deeds, Exhibits 2 and 3, in the court ofthe  District Munsif, Monghyr.	The defendants of the  firstparty  withdrew	 the amount, and the mortgages	thus  becameredeemed.   When  the plaintiffs attempted to take  khas  oractual possession of the lands, they were obstructed by	 thedefendants of the second party who claimed occupancy  rightstherein.   The	plaintiffs then instituted the suit  out  ofwhich  the  present  appeal  arises, in	 the  court  of	 theSubordinate  Judge, Monghyr, for recovery of  possession  ofthe lands from the second party defendants.4The plaintiffs alleged that the lands were 'kamat  khudkast'which  had been in the personal enjoyment of Khiran Rai	 andFirangi	 Rai  and  thereafter  of  the	mortgagees  and	 thedefendants  of	the first party by virtue of  the  sudbharnadeeds,	Exhibits 2 and 3, that the second  party  defendantsclaimed	 rights as occupancy raiyats under a  settlement  bythe  mortgagees,  that the settlement was not real  or	bonafide,  and  was	 not  binding on  the  mortgagors.   In	 thealternative,  the  plaintiffs claimed  damages	against	 thedefendants  of	the first party, if it was  found  that	 thesecond	party bad acquired occupancy rights under a  settle-ment  from  them.  Both sets of defendants denied  that	 thelands were kamat lands, or that the defendants of the  firstparty settled the defendants of the second party as  raiyatson  the	 land.	 They pleaded that the latter  had  been  inpossession  even prior to the mortgages, Exhibits 2  and  3,under a settlement with the mortgagors, and that accordinglythe plaintiffs were entitled neither to possession from	 thesecond party nor damages from the first party.The  Subordinate Judge of Mongbyr who tried the	 suit,	heldthat  the lands were private lands of the proprietors,	thatthe defendants of the second party or their predecessors-in-title bad not been inducted on the lands by the	 mortgagors,that  they were put into possession by the  mortgagees	onlyunder the lease deed, Exhibit 2(a) dated 27th May 1905, thatthey  were mere creatures of the first party, and  that	 thesettlement  was	 not  bona  fide  and  not  binding  on	 theplaintiffs.   He accordingly granted a decree in  favour  ofthe  plaintiffs in ejectment.  Against this judgment,  therewas an appeal by the defendants to the High Court of  Patna,which agreed with the Subordinate Judge that the  defendantsof  the second party were inducted into possession  only  in1905 under the lease deed, Exhibit 2(a), and that they	werenot  raiyats settled by the mortgagors prior to	 1900.	 Butthe learned Judges held that the suit lands were not  provedto  be	'sir'  or  private  lands,  that  the  second  partydefendants  were not the creatures of the first party,	thatthe lease deed, Exhibit 2(a) was a5bona  fide  transaction,  and that the	recognition  of	 thedefendants of the second party by the mortgagees as  tenantswould  confer occupancy rights on them.	 In the result,	 thesuit  was  dismissed.	The plaintiffs appeal.	 It  may  bestated	that the alternative claim for damages	against	 thefirst  party was abandoned by the plaintiffs, and  the	onlyrelief	now  claimed is possession of lands as	against	 thesecond	party.	Mr. Misra, counsel for the first party,	 hadaccordingly   nothing  to  say	about  the  merits  of	 thecontroversy  between  the appellants and  the  second  partydefendants, and merely pressed for his costs being  awarded.It  was the second party appearing by counsel Mr.  TarachandBrijmohan Lal, that vigorously contested the appeal.The  substantial  question that arises for our	decision  iswhether	 the  lands  in dispute are  private  lands  of	 theproprietor.  Section 120(2) of the Bihar Tenancy Act VIII of1885,	hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  Act,  enacts   apresumption  that "land is not a proprietor's private  land,until  the  contrary is shown".	 And further,  there  was  acadastral  survey  in 1908, and in  the	 final	notificationpublished  under  section 103-A of the Act, the	 lands	wererecorded   as  in  the	possession  of	the   second   partydefendants, whose status was described as 'kaimi' or settledraiyats.   Under section 103-B(3), "every entry in a  recordof  rights  so	published shall be evidence  of	 the  matterreferred  to  in  such entry, and shall be  presumed  to  becorrect	 until	it is proved by evidence to  be	 incorrect".The result of both these provisions is that the burden is onthe  proprietor clearly to establish that the lands are	 hisprivate lands.	Some oral evidence has been adduced by	bothsides as to the character of the lands, but it is too vague,recent and interested to be of much value, and the  questiontherefore falls primarily to be decided on the	'documentaryevidence in the case.The earliest document bearing on the question is Exhibit  1,which  is a mortgage deed executed by the  previous  owners,Firangi Rai and others, to Harbans Narain Singh	 on the 10thApril, 1893 over a portion6of  the	 suit  lands.	Therein,  it  is  recited  that	 themortgagors  "mortgage,	hypothecate and	 render	 liable	 theproperties  constituting the proprietory  mukarri  interest,with  all  the	zamindari rights and  claims  including	 thekhudkasht kamat lands".	 The word 'khudkasht' means personalcultivation,  and that is a neutral expression, which  mightinclude	 both  private lands and bakasht lands, that  is  tosay,  raiyati lands, which had come into the  possession  ofthe proprietor by surrender, abandonment or otherwise.	 Butthe  word  'kamat'  has a definite  connotation,  and  meansprivate	 lands.	 Vide section 116 of the Bihar Tenancy	Act.If  the recital in Exhibit I is to be accepted	as  correct,the  lands were on that date in the personal cultivation  ofthe  proprietor as private lands.  Exhibits 2 and 3 are	 thesudbharna deeds dated 10-8-1900 under which the first  partydefendants got into possession of the suit lands.  They	 arein  the same terms, and recite the at the mortgagees are  toenter  into possession and occupation of lands, "  cultivateor  cause  to  be  cultivated  the  same  for  their   self-satisfaction", and that after the expiry of the period fixedfor  redemption,  the  mortgagors are to  pay  the  mortgageamounts in one lump and take back the properties "in our sirand  khas  possession".	 The word 'sir' is  synonymous	with'kamat'	 and  'ziraat',	 and  means  private  lands  of	 theproprietor.  (Vide  section  116).  These  recitals  are  ofconsiderable  importance,  as  they occur  in  deeds  inter-parties.  The respondents are right in contending that	theycannot	be regarded as admissions by the mortgagees  as	 thedeeds  were  executed  by  the	mortgagors;  but  they	 arecertainly admissible under section 13 of the Evidence Act asassertions of title, and as it is under these documents thatthe  first party defendants claim, their probative value  asagainst them and as against the second party defendants	 whoclaim  under  them  is	high.  Exhibit I  (b)  is  a  simplemortgage executed by Firangi Rai and others on 21-12-1901 infavour of one Chhotu Singh over some properties forming partof the suit lands.  It also contains the recital that  theseproperties are kamat khudkasht lands.  There7 is  finally the lease deed executed in favour of the  firstparty  by the defendants of the second party,  Exhibit	2(a)under  which the latter came into possession of	 the  lands.It  recites  that  the	lands  had  been  in  the  exclusivecultivation of Babu Nath Prasad and Babu Misri Lal, that thelessees	 will give up possession of the lands at the end  ofthe  term  which  was a period of 2  years,,  and  that	 thelessors	 will be "competent to bring the lands mentioned  inthis kabuliat under their exclusive cultivation".  As  thesedocuments  are	ante litem motam, and as some of  them,	 areinter-parties and extend over a considerable period of time,they  form  cogent and strong evidence that  the  lands	 areprivate lands.Now, what is the evidence adduced by the defendants to rebutthe  inference	to be drawn from them?	None.	They  simplytrust  to  the	presumptions  in  their	 favour	 enacted  insections  120(2)  and  103-B  of the  Act  to  non-suit	 theplaintiffs.  But these are rebuttable presumptions, and theyhave,  in our opinion, been rebutted by the evidence in	 thesuit, which is all one way.It was argued for the respondents that even if the  evidencereferred  to above was accepted, that would be	insufficientunder  section 120 of the Act to support a finding that	 thelands were private lands.  Section 120 runs as follows:"(1)  The  Revenue Officer shall record	 as  a	proprietor'sprivate land-(a)  land,  which  is  proved to  have	been  cultivated  askhamar,	 ziraat , sir, nij, nijjot or kamat by the  proprietor, himself with his own stock or by his own servants or  byhired labour for twelve continuous years immediately  beforethe passing of this Act, and(b)  cultivated land which is recognised by village usage asproprietor's khamar, ziraat, sir, nij, nijjot or kamat.(2)  In	 determining  whether  any other land  ought  to  berecorded  as a proprietor's private land, the officer  shallhave regard to local custom, and to the question whether theland was, before the second day8of  March,  1883, specifically let as  proprietor's  privateland,  and to any other evidence that may be  produced;	 butshall  presume that land is not a proprietor's private	landuntil the contrary is shown.(3)If  any  question arises in a Civil Court as	 to  whetherland  is  or is not a proprietor's private land,  the  Courtshall have regard to the rules laid down in this section forthe guidance of Revenue Officers".The contention of the respondents is that under this sectionbefore	lands could be held to be private, it must be  shownthat they had been cultivated as private lands for 12  yearsprior  to the date of the Act, and that as the	evidence  inthe  case  went back only to 1893, the requirements  of	 thesection	 were  not satisfied.  This argument proceeds  on  amisconception  about  the true scope of section	 120.	Thatsection	 does  not enact that no land shall be	recorded  asprivate,  unless  it is proved to have	been  cultivated  asprivate land for 12 years prior to the date of the Act.	  Itonly provides that when that is proved, it shall be recordedas private land.  But when no such evidence is	forthcoming,it  does  not preclude that fact from being  established  by"any  other  evidence  that may be  produced",	if  that  isrelevant and admissible under the provisions of the EvidenceAct.  That was the view taken in Maharaja Kesho Prasad Singhv.  Parmeshri  Prasad  Singh(1), and on	 appeal,  the  PrivyCouncil	 agreed	 with  it in  Bindeshwari  Prasad  Singh  v.Maharaja Kesho Prasad Singh(2).	 The position, therefore, isthat section 120 merely enacts certain rules of evidence  tobe  followed in an enquiry as to whether a disputed land  is'ziraat'.   When  in  such enquiry the	facts  mentioned  insection 120(1) are established, the law raises a  presumptiojuris et de jure that the lands are private.  But where suchevidence  is  not available, that fact can still  be  estab-lished	by otber and satisfactory evidence.  What has to  bedecided	 therefore is whether the evidence actually  adducedby the plaintiffs in the present case is(1) [1923] I.L.R. 2 Patna 414.(2) [1926] 53 I.A. 164,9sufficient  to discharge the burden which the law  casts  onthem and to prove that the lands are 'kamat' or 'sir' lands.For  the reasons already given, weare of opinion that it  issufficient to justify a findidg in the affirmative.Strong reliance was placed by the respondents on Exhibits F-1  and F-1(1) which are khatians relating to the suit  landspublished  on 7-12-1909 recording them as in the  possessionof the defendants of the second party as 'kaimi' and on	 thepresumption under section 103-B that that entry is  correct.This presumption, it is contended, is particularly strong inthe  present case, because the predecessors-in-title of	 theplaintiffs were parties to the proceedings and contested thesame,  and  that  the  record  of  rights  was	made   afterconsidering  their  objections.	  The  plaintiffs,  however,denied	that  they  were parties  to  the  proceedings,	 andcontended  that	 they were taken behind their  back  by	 themortgagees  and	 the  second  party  defendants	 acting	  incollusion with a view to defeat their rights.  Exhibits	 A-1and  A-1(1) are certified copies of the objection  petitionsstated	to have been filed by the mortgagors  under  section103-A  of the Act, and they purport to have been  signed  byone  Chulai  Mahto as karpardaz of some of  the	 mortgagors.The  plaintiffs	 deny the genuineness of the  signatures  inExhibits  A-1  and A-1(1) and also the authority  of  ChulaiMahto  to  represent the mortgagors.  There is	no  evidencethat  the signatures on Exhibits A-1 and A-1 (1)  are  true,but  the  defendants  rely on  the  presumption	 enacted  insection	  90  of  the  Evidence	 Act  in  favour  of   theirgenuineness.   But  Exhibits  A-1 and  A-1  (I)	 are  merelycertified copies of the objection petitions filed before theSurvey	Officer	 and not the originals, and it was  held  inBasant	v.  Brijraj(1) that the presumption enacted  in	 thesection	 can  be  raised only  with  reference	to  originaldocuments  and not to copies thereof.  There is the  furtherdifficulty in the way of the respondents that the  documentsare  signed by Chulai Mahto as agent, and there is no  proofthat he was an agent,(1)  [1935] 62 I.A. 180.10and  section  90  does	not  authorise	the  raising  of   apresumption as to the existence of authority on the part  ofChulai Mahto to represent the mortgagors.  It is again to benoted that the objection on the merits raised in Exhibits A-1  and	A-1(1)	that  the lands are  bakasht  lands  in	 thepossession  of	mortgagees is not one which it	was  to	 theinterests of the mortgagors to put forward, as, if accepted,it would preclude them from admitting tenants in respect  ofthem,  without	conferring  on them the	 status	 of  settledraiyats	 and occupancy rights under section 21 of  the	Act.It  was	 only  if  the lands were  private  lands  that	 theproprietor  would be entitled to cultivate them	 personally,and   that  was	 the  claim  which  they  had  been   makingconsistently  from 1893 onwards.  The claim put	 forward  inExhibits  A-1  and and A-1(1) is destructive of	 the  rightsclaimed	 all  along  by the mortgagors, and  amounts  to  anadmission  that	 the lands are not private  and	 raises	 thedoubt  that the petitions were not really inspired by  them.It  should  also  be mentioned that at the  hearing  of	 thepetition, no evidence was adduced by the mortgagors, and thedecision  of  the Survey Officer was  given  practically  exparte.	The mortgagees were parties to the proceedings,	 andthey did not appear and produce the mortgage deeds, Exhibits2  and	3, under which they got into possession,  and  whichdescribed  the lands as 'sir'.	It was to the  interests  ofthe  mortgagees that the'lands should be held to  be  'sir',and  it	 was further their duty to defend the title  of	 themortgagors  as	against the claim made by the  tenants	thatthey  were  raiyati lands.  Why then did  they	not  produceExhibits 2 and 3 at the hearing?  The recitals in the  leasedeed,  Exhibit 2(a) which was executed by the defendants  ofthe  second party, were inconsistent with their	 claim	thatthe lands were raiyati.	 Why did they not produce it at	 thehearing	 ?   Thereis  therefore	 much to  be  said  for	 thecontention  ofthe appellants that the proceedings  evidencedby Exhibits A-1 and A-1(1) were collusive in character.But even assuming that they were real, that11would  not materially affect the result, as the true  effectof  a record of rights under section 103-A is not to  createrights where none existed but simply to raise a	 presumptionunder  section	103-B  that such'  rights  exist,  and	thatpresumption  is one liable to be rebutted.  There is a	longline of authorities that a person who attacks a record	madeunder section 103-A as incorrect discharges the burden whichthe law casts on him under section 103-B by showing that  itwas  not  justified on the materials on which it  is  based.Vide Bogha Mower v. Ram Lakhan(1) and Eakub Ali v.  MuhammadAli(2).	 And where., as here, no evidence was placed  beforethe authorities who made the record, he has only to  produceevidence  which	 satisfies  the	 court	that  the  entry  iserroneous.    Whether  the  question  is   considered	withreference to the presumption under section 120(2) or section103-B,	the position is the same.  The plaintiffs who  claimthat  the lands are kamat have to establish it by clear	 andsatisfactory  evidence.	 If the evidence adduced by them  issufficient,  as	 we have held it is, to	 establish  it,	 thepresumption  under  section 103-B equally  with	 that  undersection	 120(2 becomes displaced.  In the result, we are  ofopinion	 that  the suit lands are the private lands  of	 theproprietor.It  was next contended that even if the lands  were  privatelands,	that would not prevent the acquis tion of  occupancyrights	by the tenants under Chapter V, as  the	 restrictionprovided in section 116 in that behalf did not apply on	 thefacts of the present case, and that in consequence no reliefin ejectment could be granted.	Section 116 enacts, omittingwhat  is  not  material, that "nothing in  Chapter  V  shallconfer	a right of occupancy in a proprietor's private	landwhere  any  such land is held under a lease for	 a  term  ofyears or under a lease from year to year". , In the  presentcase,,	the tenants got into possession under Exhibit  2(a),which was a lease for two years, and they would therefore beprecluded from acquiring occupancy rights by virtue of	thatdemise.	  But  it is argued that the  tenants  continued  inpossession of(1) [1917] 27 Cal.  L.J. 107.  (2) [1928] 49 Cal.  L.J. 352.12the holdings even after the expiry of the term under Exhibit2(a), paid the rent to the mortgagees who recognised them astenants,  and  that their status therefore was not  that  oftenants	 holding  under a lease for a term or from  year  toyear, and that accordingly there was no impediment to  theiracquiring  occupancy rights under Chapter V. The  point	 hasnot been argued whether, as Exhibit 2(a) is an	agriculturallease,	the  tenants who held over after the expiry  of	 theperiod fixed therein, should not be con, sidered to hold  astenants	 from  year  to year, on the  principle	 enacted  insections 106 and 116 of the Transfer of Property Act.We shall proceed on the footing that on the findings of	 theHigh  Court  that  the tenants were riot  the  creatures  orservants  of  the  mortgagees, and that	 they  had  been  incontinuous  possession paying rent to them, section 116	 didnot  debar them from acquiring rights under Chapter  V.	 Butthe question is whether they acquired such rights under thatChapter.   Section  21 provides that every person who  is  asettled raiyat in a village shall have a right of  occupancyin  all land for the time being held by him as a  raiyat  inthat  village.	 Section 20 defines a settled  raiyat  as  aperson who holds continuously land for a period of 12  yearsin any village.	 Section 5(2) defines 'raiyat'	as a  personwho  has  acquired a right to bold land for the	 purpose  ofcultivating  it	 by  himself or members	 of  his  family  orservants  or  partners, and section 5 (3) provides  that  "aperson	shall not be deemed to be a raiyat unless  he  holdsland  either immediately under a proprietor  or	 immediatelyunder  a  tenure-bolder".  The position	 therefore  is	thatbefore a person can claim occupancy rights under section 21,he must establish that he is a raiyat as defined in sections5(2)  and  5(3), and as the defendants of the  second  partyacquired  the  right to hold the lands for  the	 purpose  ofcultivation  from the first party mortgagees and  not  underthe  mortgagors, they are not raiyats as defided in  section5(3), and can claim no rights under section 21. On behalf ofthe  tenants, it was contended that as under section  58  ofthe Transfer of Property Act a13mortgage is a transfer of interest in land, the mortgagee isthe  owner of that interest and therefore a  proprietor	 forthe  purpose  of  section  5(3).   Section  3(2)  defines  aproprietor  as meaning a person owning whether in  trust  orfor  his  own  benefit an estate or part of  an	 estate.   Amortgagee  is  no  doubt the transferee of  an	interest  inimmovable  property, and may in a loose sense be said to  bethe  owner  of	that  interest.	 But  the  definition  of  aproprietor  requires that he should own the estate  or	partthereof	 and not merely an interest therein.  It would be  acontradiction  in terms to say of a mortgagee that  he	ownsthe  estate over which he owns an interest.  As observed  inGhose on the Law of Mortgage in India, Volume I, page 77,"Interest which passes to the mortgagee is not the ownershipor dominion which, notwithstanding the mortgage, resides  inthe mortgagor".The question whether for purposes of section 21 of the Act atenant	from  a	 mortgagee can be held to  be  a  raiyat  asdefined	 in  section 5(3) was considered by  this  Court  inMahabir	 Gope  and  others  v.	Harban8	 Narain	 Singh	 andothers(1),  and	 it was held that a mortgagee is  neither  aproprietor nor a tenure-holder, and a tenant inducted by himon the lands is not a raiyat within the definition of  thoseterms under the Act.  That decision governs this case.The contention of the respondents that the mortgagees  couldbe  considered	as  tenure-holders within  section  5(3)  isequally untenable.  Section 5(1) defines a tenure-holder  asmeaning a person who has acquired a right to hold lands	 forcollecting  rents or for bringing them into  cultivation  byestablishing  tenants  thereon.	 In the	 present  case,	 thelands were under the personal cultivation of the  mortgagorsat the time when they were mortgaged under Exhibits 2 and 3.There  were then no raiyats on the land and no 'question  oftransferring  the  right  to collect rent  from	 them.	 Therespondents relied on the terms in Exhibits 2 and 3 that themortgagees  might  cultivate the lands or cause them  to  becultivated   at	  their	  pleasure,   as   authorising	 theestablishment of tenants.  But that(1)  [1962] S.C.R. 775, 781.14clause	would  apply  only if the lands had  to	 be  broughtafresh	under  cultivation, and that was  not  the  positionhere.  As the mortgagees are neither proprietors nor tenure-holders	 as  defined in the Act, the tenants  holding  underthem   could  not  claim  to  be  raiyats  as	defined	  insections.5(2)  and  5(3),  and	no  occupancy  rights  couldtherefore be acquired by them under section 21 of the Act.It  was	 next contended that the mortgagees  had  the  powerunder  section 76 of the Transfer of Property Act to  inducttenants on the land for purposes of cultivation, that such atransaction.  would be binding on the mortgagors,  and	thatits  effect would be to confer on the tenants the status  ofraiyats	 and  that  they would get  occupancy  rights  undersection	 21 of the Act.	 The decisions in Manjhil Lal  BiswaNath  Sah  Deo	v.  Mahiuddin(1),  Rajendra  Nath  v.	DinuProdhan(2) and Pramatha Nath v. Sashi Bhu8an(3) were  reliedon in support of this contention.  This argument proceeds ona  confusion of two wholly independent concepts distinct  intheir  origin and different in their legal  incidents.	 Thelaw  is	 that a person cannot confer on	 another  any  righthigher	than  what he himself possesses,  and  therefore,  alease  created	by a usufructuary mortgagee  would  normallyterminate on the redemption of the mortgage.  Section  76(a)enacts an exception to this rule.  If the lease is one whichcould  have been made by the owner in the course of  prudentmanagement,   it  would	 be  binding  on   the	 mortgagors,notwithstanding	 that the mortgage has been redeemed.	Evenin  such  a case, the operation of the lease  cannot  extendbeyond the period for which it was granted.  In the  presentcase,  assuming	 that  the mortgagees bad  the	power  undersection	 76(a) of the Transfer of Property Act	to  continuethe lessees under Exhibit 2(a) as tenants on the lands afterthe  termination  of  the period fixed	therein	 that  wouldconfer	on them at best the status of tenants from  year  toyear  and not give them the right to continue in  possessionafter the termination of the agricultural year during  whichthe redemption(1) [1926] 97 I.C. 852.		(2) A.I.R. 1930 Cal. 738.(3)A.I.R. 1987 Cal. 763.15takes place.  In this view, the power of the mortgagee undersection	 76(a)	of the Transfer of Property  Act  to  inducttenants	 in the usual course of management would  not  availthe respondents to claim occupancy rights over the lands.Turning	 next  to the provisions of the Bihar  Tenancy	Act,section	 21 confers on settled raiyats a permanent right  ofoccupancy, provided the conditions mentioned in that sectionare satisfied.	But this right is a creature of the statute,and  cannot  be	 claimed  apart	 from  its  provisions.	   Amortgagee is, as already stated, neither a proprietor nor  atenure-holder, and a person settled by him on the land	doesnot  enjoy  the status of a raiyat under sections  5(2)	 and5(3).  He is therefore not a person entitled under the termsof  the	 statute  to any occupancy  rights.   Thus,  if	 therespondents  cannot resist the suit for ejectment either  byreason	of section 76(a) of the Transfer of Property Act  orsection 21 of the Bihar Tenancy Act, it is difficult to	 seehow  they  could  get  such a right as	the  result  of	 theinteraction of both those sections.In Manjhil Lal Biswa Nath Sah Deo v. Mahiuddin(1), the	suitwas by a mortgagor after redemption to recover possession oflands,	which  had  been  leased  by  the  mortgagee.	 Theproprietor  claimed  that  the lands were  zirait;  but	 thefinding, however, was that they were raiyat lands, and	thatthe  mortgagee had inducted tenants into possession  in	 theusual  course of management.  It was held that	the  tenantscould  not be ejected.	The decision was expressly based  onthe fact that the lands were raiyati lands, and the  learnedJudges	distinguished  the cases in Mahadeo Prasad  Sahu  v.Gajadhar  Prasad  Sahu(2 ) and Jogeshwar  Mazumdar  v.	AbedMahomed	 Sirkar (3) on the ground that the lands which	werethe  subject  of mortgage therein were zerait  lands.	Thisdecision  does not support the broad proposition  for  whichthe respondents contend, and is really against them, as	 themortgage in the present case is of 'kamat' lands.In Rajendra Nath v. Dinu Prodhan(4), the facts were(1)  [1926] 97 I.C. 852.	   (2) [1922] 73 I.C. 359(3)  [1896] 3 C.W.N. 13.	    (4) A.I.R.	 1930	Cal.738.16similar	 to  those  in Manjhil Lal Biswa  Nath	Sah  Deo  v.Mahiuddin(1),  except that the lands do not appear  to	havebeen  raiyati lands.  In holding that the mortgagor was	 notentitled to possession, Guha, J. observed that the  mortgagedeed  did not stand in the way of the tenants being  settledby  the mortgagee, and that when they were so settled,	theyhad  well  defined rights under the Act, and  could  not  beejected.   If section 5(3) of the Act did not  apply-and  itwould  not,  unless  the letting was by	 the  proprietor  ortenureholder  it is not stated what other provision  of	 lawoperated  to  confer occupancy rights on  the  tenant.	 Thelearned	 Judge then referred to Binad Lal Pakrashi  v.	KaluPramanik(2  )  as  furnishing the  principle  on  which	 thedecision  should  rest.	  There,  a  tenant  was  put	intopossession by a person who claimed to be the proprietor, andthough	it subsequently turned out that he was not,  it	 washeld  that  the letting by him conferred on the	 tenant	 thestatus of a raiyat.  As pointed out in Peary Mohun Mondal v.Radhika	 Mohun	Hazra(3)  and Krishna  Nath  Chakrabarty  v.Mahomed	 Wafiz(4)  the basis of the decision  in  Binad	 LalPakrashi v. Kalu Pramanik(2) was that the word	"proprietor"in section 5(3) would include a defacto as well as a de jureproprietor,  and  a tenant who is bona	fide  inducted	intopossession  by him would have the status of a raiyat.	Thisdecision  makes an inroad on the general principle  that  noone  can  confer a better right than what he  has  got,	 andlater  decisions  have	generally  shown  a  disposition  toconfine	 its application within narrow limits.	But even  onits  own ground, it can have no application when the  personwho admits a tenant is not, as required by section 5 (3),  aproprietor  de	facto  or de jure,  but	 a  mortgagee.	 Theprinciple  of  the decision in Binad Lal  Pakraski  v.	KaluPramanik(2)  does  not therefore support the  conclusion  inRajendra Nath v. Dinu Prodhan(5) that a tenant admitted by amortgagee into possession acquires the status of a raiyat.(1)  [1926] 97 I.C. 852,      (2) [1893] I.L.R. 20 Cal. 708.(3) [1903] 8 C.W.N. 315.      (4) [1916] 21 C.W.N. 93.(5)A.I.R. 1930 Cal. 738.17In  Pramtha Nath v. Sashi Bhusan(1), a permanent  lease	 wasgranted	 by a mortgagee after he had obtained a	 decree	 forforeclosure.   Subsequently, that decree was recalled  in  asuit  by  the  Official Receiver' representing	one  of	 themortgagors  and	 a fresh decree for redemption	was  passed.After  redemption, the Official Receiver received rent	fromthe  lessee  treating  him  as a  tenant  on  the  land.   Atransferee  from the Official Receiver	having	subsequentlyinstituted  a suit in ejectment against the tenant,  it	 washeld that the latter bad acquired a right of occupancy undersection	 21  of	 the  Act, and	that  the  relief  for	khaspossession   could   not   be  granted	 as   against	him.Notwithstanding	 that  some  of	 the  observations  in	 thejudgment  are widely expressed, the ground of  the  decisionreally is that when the Official Receiver accepted rent fromthe  tenant, that amounted to an affirmance of the lease  byhim, and that would have the effect of bringing section 5(3)directly  into play and conferring on the tenant the  statusof a raiyat.  The decisions discussed above do not lay	downany  acceptable principle that a lease by a mortgagee  whichis  protected by section 76(a) of the Transfer	of  PropertyAct,  operates by itself to confer a right of  occupancy  onthe tenant under section 21 of the Act.Some  argument was founded by the respondents on the  clausein  Exhibits 2 and 3 that the mortgagee could get the  landscultivated.   It  was contended that this  clause  conferredauthority  on the mortgagee to settle raiyats on the  lands,and that the tenants admitted in pursuance of this authoritywould  be in the same position as if they had been  admittedby  the proprietor and the conditions of section 5(3)  wouldbe  satisfied.	But then, the lands are private	 lands,	 andthe clause in question is followed by the provision that  onredemption  the mortgagors would be entitled to resume	"sirand khas possession", and that would be rendered nugatory ifthe  deed  is  construed as authorising	 the  mortgagees  tosettle tenants on the lands with the status of raiyats.	 Theauthority to get lands cultivated can only mean(1)  A.I.R. 1937 Cal. 763.318getting them cultivated through hired labour as contemplatedin  the	 definition of 'private lands'.	 We are	 clearly  ofopinion that the mortgage deed conferred no authority on themortgagees  to admit tenants so as to confer on them  rightsof occupancy.In the result, we must old that the defendants of the secondparty have failed to establish that they have any rights  ofoccupancy  over the suit lands, and that the plaintiffs	 areaccordingly  entitled to a decree in ejectment, with  futuremesne  profits	as claimed in the plaint.   This  appeal  isallowed,  the  decree of the lower court is set	 aside,	 andthat of the Subordinate Judge of Monghyr restored as against2nd  party  defendants with costs throughout.  The  suit  asagainst the first party defendants is dismissed, but in	 thecircumstances, there will be no order as to costs.			-----------