PETITIONER:Dr. K. A. DHAIRYAWAN AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:J.  R. THAKUR AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/04/1958BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1958 AIR  789		  1959 SCR  799ACT:       Rent   Control--Lease  of  land	for   fixed   period-Lessee       constructing  building  on land--Covenant  for  delivery	 of       Possession of building to lessor on expiry of term of lease-       Statute	protecting  lessee  from  eviction-If  applies	 to       covenant--Whether  statute  extends Period  of  lease-Bombay       Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Control Act, 1947.HEADNOTE:The  lessors  granted  a lease of a parcel of  land  to	 thelessees	 for 21 years at a rent of Rs. 50 per month.   Underthe  terms  of	the lease the lessees were  to	construct  adouble	storeyed building on the land at a cost of not	lessthan  Rs.  10,000.   The  construction	had  to	 be  to	 thesatisfaction of the lessors' engineers, and the building hadto be insured for at least Rs. 12,000 in the joint names  ofthe lessors and the lessees with an insurance firm  approvedby  the	 lessors.   In case of	damage	or  destruction	 thebuilding  was to be repaired out of the money received	fromthe  insurance	company.  On the termination  of  the  leaseeither	at the end Of 21 years or earlier, the lessees	wereto surrender and yield up the demised premises including thebuilding with its fixtures and appurtenances to the  lessorswithout any compensation for the same.	After the expiry  ofthe 21 years the lessors filed a suit for a declaration thatthey  were  entitled to the building, and were	entitled  toclaim  possession of the same and to recover the  rents	 andprofits	 thereof.  The lessees pleaded that they  were	alsolessees	 of  the building and were protected  from  evictiontherefrom  by the provisions of the Bombay Rents, Hotel	 andLodging	 House Control Act, 1947 and that the  covenant	 fordelivery of possession of the building could not be enforcedas the lease in respect of the land could not be  terminatedon account of the protection given by the Act.Held, that upon a proper construction of the lease there wasa demise only of the land and not of the building and conse-quently	 the  provisions  of the Act did not  apply  to	 thecontract  for delivery of possession of the  building.	 Theownership in the building was with the lessees and in  whichthe  lessors had no right while the lease subsisted.   Therewas  no	 absolute  rule of law in India	 that  whatever	 wasaffixed	 or  built on the soil became part of  it,  and	 wassubject to the same rights of property as tile soil itself.Narayan	 Das Khettry v. Jatindra Nath Roy Chowdhury,  (1926)54 I.A. 218 and Vallabhdas Narranji v. Development  Officer,Bandra (1928) 56 I.A. 259 followed.102800Held,  further,	 that  the provisions of  the  Act  did	 notprovide for a continuation of the lease beyond the specifiedperiod	stated therein.	 The Act merely gave to	 the  lesseewho  continued in possession even after the expiry  of	tileperiod	of  the lease the status of a statutory	 tenant	 andprotected him from eviction.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 192 of 1954.Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated August 29,  1952,of  the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 79 of 1952,  arisingout  of the judgment and decree dated June 27, 1952, of	 thesaid  High  Court  exercising its  Ordinary  Original  CivilJurisdiction in Suit No. 2325 of 1948.A.V.   Viswanatha   Sastri  and	 Naunit	 Lal,	for   theappellants.L.K.  Jha, Rameshwar Nath, S. N. Andley and P. L.  Vohra,for the respondents.1958.  April 28.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byIMAM  J.-The  appellants,  as trustees,	 of  the  MankeshwarTemple	Trust  had filed suit No. 2325 of 1948 in  the	HighCourt of Bombay in its Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction,for a declaration that they were entitled to the building insuit  and were entitled to claim possession of the same	 andto  recover the rents and profits thereof.   The  appellantsfurther	 prayed	 that  the defendants  may  be	ordered	 anddecreed to obtain a letter of attornment from the tenants ofthe  said  property attorning to the  appellants,  that	 thefirst  defendant  may be ordered to render accounts  of	 therents received by him from the tenants of the said  propertyfrom May 23, 1948, and that pending the hearing of the	suita  Receiver may be appointed of the property in	 suit.	 Theappellants had obtained leave of the High Court under 0. 11,r.  2 of the Civil Procedure Code reserving to them  libertyto  file a separate suit with respect to the land  on  whichthe building was situated.  The learned Judge who heard	 thesuit  decreed  it in part in favour of the  appellants.	  Healso passed an order of injunction restraining the801defendants  1,	2  and 5, their agents	and  servants,	frominterfering with the exercise of the right of the appellantsin  obtaining  possession  of  the  building  or   otherwiseeffectuating   their   possession  consistently	  with	 theprovisions of law.  He further directed the first  defendantto account for the rents recovered by him from and after May23,  1948, till the date of the decree. He refused to  grantthe prayer that the defendants be directed to obtain lettersof attornment from the tenants of the building in favour  ofthe  appellants.   Against  this  decision  the	  defendantsappealed and a Division Bench of the High Court allowed	 theappeal,	 reversed  the	decision  of  the  trial  Judge	 anddismissed the suit with costs.On May 23, 1927, Krishnarao Ganpatrao and Shamrao Ganpatrao,as trustees of the Mankeshwar Temple, executed a  registeredlease,	Exbt.	A,  in	favour	of  Moreshwar  Kasinath	 andRadhabal,  wife	 of Ramkrishna Bhai  Thakore,  whereby	theydemised	 a parcel of land specified in the Schedule  to	 thedocument.  The lease was for twenty-one years.	The area  ofland was about 213.66 square yards and the rent reserved wasRs.  50 per month.  Under the terms of the lease the  lesseehad  to	 construct within six months from the  date  of	 thelease a double storeyed building consisting of shops on	 theground floor and residential rooms on the upper floor.	 Thecost  of  construction was to be not less than	Rs.  10,000.The  construction  had	to be to  the  satisfaction  of	 thelessors'   engineers.	 There	were   certain	 restrictivecovenants in the lease.	 The building had to be insured	 forat  least Rs. 12,000 in the joint names of the	lessors	 andthe lessees with an insurance firm approved by the  lessors.If  the	 building  was damaged or destroyed  it	 had  to  berepaired  or  restored	by the use of  the  insurance  moneyreceived from the insurance company.  On the termination  ofthe lease either at the end of twenty-one years or  earlier,the  lessees  were  to surrender and yield  up	the  demisedpremises  including  the  building  with  its  fixtures	 andappurtenances  to the lessors without any  compensation	 forthe same.  On May 14, 1948, shortly before the lease was  toexpire, the appellants who were802then  the  trustees  of	 the  temple  gave  notice  to	 therespondents  to deliver possession of the  demised  premisesand the building on the expiry of the lease, that is to say,on  May 22, 1948.  On May 19, 1948, the respondents  repliedthat  they. were entitled to the benefits of the  provisionsof  the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates  ControlAct, 1947, hereinafter referred to as the Act, and that	 theappellants were not to interfere with their possession.	 Allthat  they could get was the rent under the lease  from	 therespondents.   On  July 23, 1948, the  appellants  gave	 therespondents  notice  to quit the building only as  in  theiropinion the Act did not apply to it.  On July 27, 1948,	 therespondents, replied asserting that the Act did apply to it.The  appellants, accordingly, filed the present suit in	 theHigh Court on September 1, 1948.The  period of the lease under Exbt.  A having	expired	 andthe respondents having been given notice to quit, they	werebound  to  vacate  the demised	premises  unless  they	wereprotected by the provisions of the Act.	 Land used for	non-agricultural purposes is "premises" under the Act.  Althoughthe  period  of	 the  lease  had  expired  the	 respondentscontinued to remain in possession without the assent of	 thelessors.  Under the Act they would, therefore, be tenants ofthe land within the meaning of that expression as defined inthe  Act.  There can be no question that so far as the	landdemised by the lease is concerned the respondents could	 notbe  evicted so long as they complied with the provisions  ofthe Act and the lessors, as landlords, were unable to resortto  any of the provisions of s. 13 of the Act to  evict	 therespondents  from the land.  Indeed, the appellants did	 notclaim  in  the plaint that they were entitled to  evict	 therespondents from the demised land.  The plaint, as  drafted,confined  the reliefs claimed by the appellants only to	 thebuilding constructed on the land.The substantial question in issue in this appeal is  whetheron  a proper construction of the lease, Exbt.  A, it can  beheld  that  not only the land but also the  building  to  beconstructed on it had been demised under it, Other questionshad also been raised in the803course	of  arguments.	 It  was argued	 on  behalf  of	 therespondents that the appellants could not get possession  ofthe building until the lease had been determined.  The leasecould  not be determined as under the law they could not  becompelled  to give up possession of the land  demised  underthe  lease  as	they were tenants of  the  land	 within	 themeaning of the Act.  A further submission made was that evenif  the lease did not purport to demise the  building  whichwas  to	 be  constructed  on the  land	demised	 under	thatdocument,  the	appellants  were  not  entitled	 to  get   adeclaration  to	 the effect that they were entitled  to	 therents  and profits from the building which had been let	 outto.  several persons by the respondents and the	 respondentscould not be restrained from interfering with the collectionof the rents and profits from the building by the appellantsso  long as the respondents were in possession of  the	landdemised.   It was also urged that the suit must at any	ratefail  on the ground that defendant No. 4 having died  beforethe  institution of the suit and her name being	 struck	 offfrom  the  category of defendants and her  legal  heirs	 andrepresentatives not having been brought on to the record thesuit was bad on account of non-joinder of necessary parties.A  perusal of the Schedule to the lease shows that what	 wasdemised thereunder was a parcel of land of an area of  about213 square yards with New Survey No. 1/2600 cadestral surveyNo.  96.  The Schedule leaves no room for doubt as  to	whatwas demised.  Under the terms of the lease the rent  payablefor this land was Rs. 50 per month.  The terms of the  leaseshow   that  the  land	was  demised  for  the	purpose	  ofconstructing a building thereon by the lessees.	 Clause 1 ofthe  lease  may be quoted as the respondents  have  stronglyrelied upon this clause in support of their contention	thatwhat  was demised under the lease was not only the land	 butalso  the building to be erected thereon.  This clause	runsas follows:"  In  consideration of the Expenses to be incurred  by	 theLessees	 in  and about the erection and	 completion  of	 thebuilding  hereinafter  mentioned and the  rents	 hereinafterreserved and the Lessee's covenants804hereinafter contained the Lessors do hereby demise UNTO	 theLessees ALL that piece or parcel of land situated at  SupariBaug  Road,  more  particularly described  in  the  Schedulehereto and delineated in the plan thereof hereto annexed andmarked	" A " and therein bounded by a red line TO HOLD	 thepremises  unto the LESSEES for the term of  21	(twenty-one)years  to  be  computed	 from the  date	 of  these  presentsyielding  and  paying therefor on the 10th day of  each	 andevery  Calendar month the first of such payments to be	madeon  10th  of  next,  upon  the	terms  and  subject  to	 thecoventiits and conditions hereafter contained:"Another clause upon which reliance had been placed was el. 6which provides for the building to be erected to be  insuredin  the joint names of the lessors and the lessees  with  aninsurance  company approved by the lessors.  It was  pointedout  that the building was to be handed over to the  lessorsat the end of the lease without compensation to the lessees.We  have examined the various clauses of the lease and	findthat in none of them has it been positively stated that	 thebuilding  to be erected on the demised land would be in	 theownership  of  the lessors and that the	 building  would  bedeemed	to  have been leased to the lessees along  with	 thedemised land.  Under the law there was no impediment in	 theway of the parties to have had a clause, in a positive form,to that effect.	 In the absence of such a clause the variousclauses	 of  the  lease,  as they exist,  will	have  to  beconstrued  in  order  to  ascertain  whether  on  a   properconstruction thereof it can be said that there had also beena,  demise of the building.  The Schedule to the  lease,  asalready stated, specifically mentions that the land had beendemised	 and there is no mention therein that  the  buildingwhen constructed thereon would also form part of the demisedproperty.   In 1927 when the lease was executed the Act	 wasnot in existence and it may reasonably be said that none  ofthe  parties  had  ever in contemplation  that	the  Act  oranything  akin	thereto	 would	become	law  in	 the  futureaffecting  the rights of the parties under the	lease.	 Thevarious clauses of the805lease  are  consistent with the ownership  in  the  buildingbeing  with  the lessees in which the lessors had  no  rightwhile  the  lease  subsisted.  In the case  of	Narayan	 DasKhettry v. Jatindra Nath Boy Chowdhury(1) the Privy  Councilapproved the observations of Sir Barnes Peacock in the	caseof  Thakoor  Chunder Poramanick	 v.  Ramdhone  Bhuttacharjee(2)to the following effect:We have not been able to find in the laws or customs of thiscountry any traces of the existence of all absolute rule  oflaw that whatever is affixed or built on the soil becomes  apart of it, and is subjected to the same rights of  propertyas  the soil itself." In the case of Vallabhdas	 Naranji  v.Development  Office,),,	 Bandra (3) the Privy  Council	onceagain referred to Sir Barnes Peacock's observation as statedabove.	  The  Privy  Council  also  quoted  the   followingobservation  of	 Couch,	 C. J., in the case  of	 Narayan  v.Bholagir (4):........... We cannot, however, apply to  casesarising	 in  India  the doctrine of the English	 law  as  tobuildings, viz., that they should belong to the owner of theland.  The only doctrine which we can apply is the  doctrineestablished in India that the party so building on another'sland should be allowed to remove the materials."Normally,  under  s. 108 of the Transfer  of  Property	Act,before	the  expiry of the lease, a lessee  can	 remove	 allstructures and buildings erected by him on the demised land.All  that was necessary for him to do was to give  back	 theland to the lessor, on the termination of the lease, in	 thesame condition as he found it.	The ownership, therefore, ofthe  building in this case was not with the lessors but	 waswith the lessees.  Under s. 108 of the Transfer of  PropertyAct there was nothing to prevent the lessees contracting  tohand  over any building or structure erected on the land  bythem to the lessors without receiving any compensation.	  Inother words, although under s. 108 the lessees had the rightto  remove the building, by the contract they had agreed  tohand  over  the	 same to the lessors without  the  right  toreceive compensation at the end of(1)  (1926) 54 I. A. 218.(3)  (1928) 56 I.A. 259.(2)  6 Suth.  W. R. 228.(4)  6 Bom.  H. C. (A.	C. J.) 8o.806the lease, the matter being entirely one of contract betweenthe parties.  Such a contract, however, did not transfer theownership  in  the building to the lessors while  the  leasesubsisted.The various clauses of the lease in the present case make  aclear  distinction  between  the demised  premises  and	 thebuilding,  by using the words " demised	 premises  includingthe building to be erected thereon It was, however, urged onbehalf of the respondents that cl.  I of the lease indicatedthat what was demised by the lease was not only the land butalso  the  building to be constructed thereon,	because	 theopening words of el.  I make it clear that in  considerationof  the expenses to be incurred by the lessees	in  erectionand  completion	 of the building and the rent  reserved	 thelessors	 demised  to the lessees the land mentioned  in	 theSchedule.  The important words in this clause were " to holdthe  premises"	and not to hold the demised  premises.	 Theword " premises " covered both the land and the building  tobe  erected thereon.  The intention of the parties was	thatthe premises would be held at a moderate rent of Rs. 50	 permonth  as  the lessees were going to incur the	expenses  oferecting  the building, maintaining it in proper repair	 andpaying all taxes in connection therewith.  In the course  of21  years the lessees would have not only received back	 themoney  invested by them in the erection of the building	 butwould have also enjoyed a large margin of profit.  Under el.5,  at	the  end  of the lease, the  premises  held  by	 thelessees, would be handed over to the lessors that is to say,the land and the building erected on it without the  lessorspaying	any  compensation for the  building.   Under  cl.thebuilding was to be insured in the joint names of the lessorsand the lessees.  In cl. 9 of the lease the expression	"thesaid  demised premises " appears and this clause  guaranteedto  the	 lessees  enjoyment of peaceful	 possession  of	 thepremises.  This clause came after all the clauses  referringto the building to be erected on the land.  If cls. 1, 5,  6and  9 were read together and properly construed,  it  wouldappear	that the intention of the parties was that not	onlythe land demised but also the807building  which was to be constructed on it was the  subjectof  the	 lease, as that was the only purpose for  which	 theland  was given on lease.  These clauses do not	 necessarilylead  to the conclusion suggested.  If the ownership in	 thebuilding  was intended to be with the lessors, there was  nooccasion  for  providing  that	the  lessees  would  get  nocompensation  when  the	 building  was	handed	over.	Thisprovision rather suggests that the ownership in the buildingwas  with  the lessees. Oil behalf of the  respondents	muchreliance  was  placed on the decision of this Court  in	 thecase  of  Bhatia Cooperative Housing Society Ltd. v.  D.  C.Patel (1).  Many of the terms of the lease in the case citedwere  similar to the terms to be found in the lease  in	 thepresent	 case.	There was, however, el. 18 of the  lease  inthe  case referred to, which expressly stated that  immedia-tely  after the completion of the building within  the	timespecified  in el. 7, the lessors of the land would grant  tothe  lessees a lease of the land with the  building  thereonfor  a term of 999 years from the date of the auction  at  ayearly	rent calculated in accordance with the accepted	 bidfor  the plot.	There could be no question, as a  matter  ofinterpretation,	 in  the case cited, that a lease  would  begranted not only of the land but also of the building on  itfor a term of 999 years from the date of the auction.  Thereis  no	such clause in the lease in the present	 case.	 Thedecision  upon	which  reliance had  been  placed  does	 notsupport the case of the respondents, because in the  presentcase none of the clauses of the lease even remotely  suggestthat  on the completion of the building on the land  demisedthe lease in favour of the lessees would be both of the landand the building erected thereon.On  behalf  of	the appellants, on the other  hand,  it	 wassubmitted  that what was demised was actually the  land	 andthe  expression	 " to hold the premises " in  cl.   I  meantnothing	 more  than  to	 hold  the  demised  premises.	 Theownership in the building to be constructed did not pass  onto  the lessors under the lease.  During the subsistence  ofthe lease the ownership of(1) [1953] S.C.R. 185.103808the  building remained with the lessees.  The  lessees	con-tracted	 to hand over the building without  compensation  atthe  end  of  the lease and in consideration  for  this	 thelessees were being demised the land at a small rental of Rs.50  per month.	We have examined the various clauses of	 thelease  and are satisfied that not one of them,	if  properlyconstrued, indicates that there was any contract between theparties to the effect that the building to be erected on theland  would be in the ownership of the lessors and that	 thesame  would  be deemed to have been demised to	the  lesseesalong with the land.It was next urged that even if there had been no deinise  ofthe  building  to be erected on the land  possession  of  itcould  not  be given to the appellants until the  lease	 hadbeen  determined, which in law, could not be  determined  solong  as  the  respondents could not  be  evicted  from	 thedemised	 land of which they were tenants within the  meaningof  the	 Act.	This  contention is  without  force  as	 theprovisions of the Act do not provide for the continuation ofa  lease  beyond the specified period stated  therein.	 Allthat the Act does is to give to the person who continues  toremain in possession of the land, although the period of thelease had come to an end, the status of a statutory  tenant.That  is to say, although the lease had come to an  end	 butthe  lessee  continued to remain in possession	without	 theconsent of the lessor, he would none the less be a tenant ofthe  land and could not be evicted save as provided  by	 theAct.It was then submitted that the appellants could not get	 thedeclaration  to	 the effect that they were entitled  to	 therents  and profits from the building which had been let	 outto several persons by the respondents because they could notrealise the same without entering upon the land on which thebuilding  had  been constructed.  The appellants  could	 notenter upon the land for the purpose of collecting the  rentswithout	 the consent of the respondents as the	latter	werethe  tenants  of the land.  They could only enter  upon	 theland as provided for by the Act.  The declaration which	 theappellants see]<:, however, does not ask for a809declaration  that they are entitled to enter upon the  land.All that it seeks is that they are entitled to the rents andprofits	 of the building which had been let out	 to  severalpersons	 by the respondents.  The appellants merely  seek  adeclaration of their right to collect the rents and  profitsfrom  the  building.  As to how they collect  the  same	 wastheir  concern.	  There	 seems, therefore, to  be  no  validobjection  in  law  to granting the  relief  sought  by	 theappellants.The original lessees were Moreshwar Kashinath and  Radhabai,wife of Ramakrishna Bhai Thakore.  Apparently, these personswere  dead and the suit was filed against defendants I to  3as   heirs  and	 legal	representatives	 of   Radhabai	 anddefendants  4  and 5 as heirs and legal	 representatives  ofMoreshwar  Kashinath Thakore.  After the suit was  filed  itwas discovered that defendant No. 4 could not be served witha copy of the plaint as she had died before the	 institutionof  the	 suit.	 Her name was accordingly struck  off  as  adefendant  in  the suit.  It was conceded on behalf  of	 thedefendants  at	the trial that the suit	 filed	against	 thedefendants  on	a  cause of action could  not  be  dismissedmerely	 because   of	the   non-joinder   of	 the   legalrepresentatives	 of defendant No. 4 who was already dead  atthe institution of the suit.  In appeal, the learned  Judgeswere of the opinion that it was not necessary to decide thisquestion  because, in their opinion, the suit was  bound  tofail  on  other grounds.  Whatever  other  consequences	 mayarise on account of the failure of the appellants to impleadthe  heirs and legal representatives of defendant No. 4,  itwas conceded on behalf of the respondents at the trial	thatthe suit could not be dismissed merely because of this.	  Itwould  have  been  better  if the  heirs  and  legal  repre-sentatives  of	defendant No. 4 had been brought on  to	 therecord	as  defendants.	 It seems to us, however,  that	 thesuit  cannot be dismissed merely on this ground because	 thenature of the declaration which the appellants sought  couldbe   granted   even  in	 the  absence  of  the	 heirs	 andrepresentatives	 of  defendant No. 4 being  on	the  record.Though	the plaintiffs impleaded 5 persons as defendants  inthe suit, the plaintiffs claimed a decree against the  firstdefendant810only  in  respect  of the rents received  by  him  from	 thetenants	 in  the building in question.	There  is  no  claimagainst the other defendants for accounts in respect of	 theusufruct  of the property.  The correspondence disclosed  inthe suit, which passed between the plaintiffs and the  firstdefendant,  showed that it was only he who was in  effectivecontrol of the building.  The suit was contested only by thefirst  three  defendants who appear to be brothers  and	 whoclaim to have continued in possession of the building  afterthe  crucial  date,] i. e., May 22, 1948.  It  is  they	 whoclaimed	 protection under the Act.  Defendants 4 and 5,	 whowere  purported to be sued as representatives of one of	 thejoint  lessees, do not appear to have taken any interest  inthe building.  After the suit, defendant No. 5 has  remainedex  parte throughout.  After the decree of the trial  court,it  is	only  the first three defendants  who  preferred  anappeal to the High Court.  From all these considerations, itappears	 that  the  4th	 defendant or  her  heirs  or  legalrepresentatives were not necessary parties to the suit.	 TheCourt  could,  therefore,  proceed with the  suit  in  theirabsence.The  appeal, accordingly, is allowed with  costs  throughoutand  the decision of the High Court in appeal is set  aside.The  appellants	 are  entitled to  a  declaration  that	 thebuilding  constructed on the land demised under	 the  lease,Ext.  A, belongs to the Mankeshwar Temple Trust and the -aidtrust is entitled to recover all the rents and profits	fromthe,  same  and	 the respondents have no  right,  title	 andinterest  therein  since the expiration of the	said  lease.The first respondent is directed to render an account of therents received by him from the tenants of the building	from23-5-48	 and to pay to the appellants the amount found	due,after accounting, with interest at 6% per annum from 23-5-48until  payment.	  There	 will  be  an  order  of  injunctionrestraining the respondents, their agents and servants	frominterfering with the collection of rents and profits by	 theappellants from the tenants of the aforesaid building.Appeal allowed,811