PETITIONER:THE WESTERN INDIA THEATRES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF THE CITY OFPOONADATE OF JUDGMENT:16/01/1958BENCH:ACT:       Municipality,  Power of--Imposition of tax on  cinema  show-       Constitutional validity of enactment-Enhancement of such tax       Validity-Bombay	District  Municipal Act, 1901  (Bom.of	111       1901),  s. 59(1) (XI)--Bombay Municipal Boroughs	 Act,  1925       (Bom.  XVIII of 1925), s. 60.HEADNOTE:The  appellant,	 a public limited company, was a  lessee  offour  cinema houses situated within the municipal limits  ofPoona  City  where it used to exhibit  cinematograph  films.The  respondent,  the  Municipal Corporation  of  Poona,  inexercise  of  its power under s. 59(1) (XI)  of	 the  BombayDistrict  Municipal  Act,  1901,  levied  with	effect	fromOctober 1, 1920 a tax of Rs. 2 per day as license fee on theowners and lessees of cinema houses.  That Act governed	 theMunicipality till 1926 and thereafter it was governed by theBombay	Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925.  The tax was  enhancedto Re. 1 per show on June 3, 1941, and to Rs. 5 per show  onJune 9, 1948.  By the suit, out of which the present  appealarose, the appellant sought for a declaration that the	levyof  the said tax, the rules framed in  connection  therewithand the enhancement of the tax as aforesaid were illegal andultra  vires.  The trial court decreed the suit in part	 butthe High Court in appeal reversed the decision of the  trialcourt72and  dismissed the suit.  It was contended on behalf of	 theappellant  that (1) the tax was not one covered by Entry  50in  List 11 of Seventh Schedule to the Government  of  IndiaAct, 1935, but was one on trade or calling covered by  Entry46 thereof, and, was as such governed by S. 142A of the saidAct  and  that	(2)  s. 59(1)(XI)  Of  the  Bombay  DistrictMunicipal  Act,	 1901,	was  unconstitutional  in  that	 thelegislature  had  thereby  delegated  essential	 legislativepower to the Municipality to determine the nature of the taxto  be imposed on the rate-payers and  completely  abdicatedits function, leaving such power wholly unguided.Held, that both the contentions must fail.The  first  point was covered by the decision given  in	 theappellant's other appeal, Civil Appeal No. 145 Of 1955 whichmust also govern this case.It  was not correct to contend that the power  delegated  tothe  Municipality under S. 59(1)(XI) Of the Bombay  DistrictMunicipal Act, 1901, was unguided.  That section  authorisedthe imposition of such taxes alone as were necessary for thepurposes  of  the Act.	The obligations and  functions	castupon  the Municipalities by ch.	 VII of the Act showed	thattaxes could be -levied only for implementing those  purposesand none others.Nor  could  it be said that the Provincial  Legislature	 hadabdicated  its function in favour of the Municipality.	 Thetaxing	power  of the Municipality was made subject  to	 theapproval of the Governor-in-Council by the section itself.The  marginal  note  to	 a  section  could  not	 affect	 theconstruction  of the section if its language  was  otherwiseclear  and  unambiguous and the word 'modify'  connoted	 notmerely	 reduction  but	 also  other  kinds  of	  alterationincluding  enlargement.	  The  substitution of	the  word  Ireduce'	 by the word I modify' in the body of s. 6o  of	 theBombay	Municipal  Boroughs Act, 1925,	notwithstanding	 theomission  to do so in the marginal note, therefore,  clearlyindicated  the	intention of the Legislature  to  widen	 thescope  of  that section and, consequently, it could  not  besaid  that  the enhancement of the tax was  not	 sustainablethereunder.Commissioner  of Income Tax, Bombay v. Ahmedbhai Umarbhai  &Co.,  Bombay, [1950] S.C.R. 335 and Stevens v.	The  GeneralSteam  Navigation  Company, Ltd., L.R. (1903)  1  K.B.	890,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 146 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated February 10, 1953,of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 953 of 1951,  arisingout  of the judgment and decree dated November	36,1951,  ofthe Court of73Joint  Civil Judge, Senior Division, Poona, in Special	SuitNo. 76 of 1950.H.   D. Banaji, R. A. Gagrat and G. Gopalakrishnan, for	 theappellant.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, S. N.  Andleyand J. B. Dadachanji, for the respondent.1959.  January 16.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyDAS,  C.  J.-The  appellant  is	 a  public  limited  companyregistered  under the Indian Companies Act, 1913.  It  is  alessee	of four cinema houses situate within  the  municipallimits	of Poona City known respectively as " Minerva  ",  "The Globe ", " Sri Krishna " and " The Nishat ". It exhibitscinematograph  films, both foreign and Indian, in  the	saidfour houses.  The respondent, a body corporate, was governedby  the	 Bombay District Municipal Act, 1901 (Bom.   III  of1901)  up  to  June 8, 1926, and from  then  by	 the  BombayMunicipal  Boroughs  Act, 1925 (Bom.  XVIII of 1925)  up  toDecember 29, 1949, and, thereafter, by the Bombay ProvincialMunicipal  Corporation Act, 1949 (Bom.	LIX of 1949).	Witheffect	from  October  1, 1920,	 the  respondent,  with	 thesanction  of the Government of Bombay levied on	 the  ownersand  lessees  of  cinema houses within	the  limits  of	 theerstwhile  province  of	 Bombay a tax of Rs. 2	per  day  aslicense fee.  Rules for the levy and collection of the	saidtax were framed by the respondent.  Those rules were amendedon or about June 3,	 1941, enhancing the tax from Rs.  2per day to Re.	I per show.  The rules were again revised onor about June 9,1948, under which the tax was enhanced	fromRe.   I per show to Rs. 5 per show.  At all  material  timesthe tax was being collected at the last mentioned rate.Section	 59  of	 the  Bombay  District	Municipal  Act	1901provided that subject to any general or special orders whichthe   State  Government	 might	make  in  that	behalf	 anymunicipality  (a) after observing the preliminary  procedurerequired  by  s.  60,  and (b)	with  the  sanction  of	 theauthority therein mentioned, might1074impose	for  the  purposes  of that Act	 any  of  the  taxesmentioned  in that section.  After enumerating ten  specificheads of taxes, which a municipality could levy a  residuarycategory was set forth in cl. (xi) in the words following:-"Any other tax to the nature and object of which he approvalof  the Governor in, Council shall have been obtained  priorto  the selection contemplated in sub-clause (1)  of  clause(a)  of	 section  60 ".Ever since the appellant became a  lessee of the said cinemahouses,	 the appellant has been making payments of the	saidtax under protest.After	giving	the  necessary	statutory  notice   to	 therespondent, the appellant, on or about March 31,1950,  fileda  suit	 in the Court of the Civil Judge,  Senior  Division,Poona, being Suit No. 76 of 1950, against the respondent fora  declaration that the levy and imposition of the said	 taxwith effect from October 1, 1920, were invalid and  illegal;that  the  enhancement in the rates of the tax	with  effectfirst from June 3, 1941, and then June 9, 1948, was  invalidand illegal and that the resolutions passed and rules framedin  connection	with the levy, imposition,  enhancement	 andcollection  of the said impugned tax were  invalid,  illegaland ultra vires, for a permanent injunction restraining	 thedefendants from levying or recovering and or increasing	 andenhancing  the said tax and for refund to the  appellant  ofthe  amounts of the tax collected from it and for  costs  ofthe  suit and interest.	 By its judgment dated November	 30,1951,  the  trial court held that the said tax	was  validlylevied	and imposed, but that the increase  and	 enhancementthereof	 in 1941 and 1948 were illegal and ultra vires.	 andthat  the suit was not barred under the Acts  governing	 therespondent.   The  trial court decreed the suit in  part  byissuing	 an  injunction	 restraining  the  respondent	fromlevying,  recovering or collecting the tax at  the  enhancedrate and passing a decree against the respondent for  refundof  a  sum  of	Rs. 27,072 with	 interest  and	costs.	 Therespondent preferred an appeal and the appellant filed crossobjections.   But the High Court by its judgment and  decreedated February 10, 1953,75reversed  the judgment of the trial court and dismissed	 thesuit   of   the	 appellant  with  costs	  throughout.	 Theappellant's  cross  objections	were  also  dismissed.	  OnDecember  10,  1953,  the High Court granted  leave  to	 theappellant  to appeal to this Court from the  said  judgment.Hence  this  final appeal questioning the  validity  of	 theimpugned tax.The  first  point  urged  in this appeal  is  that  the	 lawimposing  this tax is not covered by entry 50 in List II  ofthe  Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act,  1935,but  is	 really a tax on the appellant's  trade	 or  callingreferred  to in entry 46 and that, therefore, the amount  oftax  cannot under s. 142-A of the Government of	 India	Act,1935  exceed Rs. 100 per annum.	 This point need not  detainus  long, for it is covered by us in the  appellant's  otherappeal No. 145 of 1955.The  second point urged before us in support of this  appealis  that  s.  59(1) (xi) is  unconstitutional  in  that	 thelegislature  had completely abdicated its functions and	 haddelegated essential legislative power to the Municipality todetermine  the nature of the tax to be imposed on  the	ratepayers.	  Learned counsel for the appellant urges  that	 thepower  thus  delegated	to  the	 municipality  is  unguided,uncanalised and vagrant, for there is nothing in the Act  toprevent	 the  municipality from imposing any tax  it  likes,even,	say,  income  tax.   Such  omnibus  delegation,	  hecontends,   cannot  on	the  authorities  be  supported	  asconstitutional.	  We  find ourselves in agreement  with	 theHigh Court in rejecting this contention.In  the first place, the power of the  municipality  -cannotexceed	the power of the provincial legislature	 itself	 andthe  municipality  cannot impose any tax, e.g.,	 income	 taxwhich  the provincial legislature could not  itself  impose.In  the	 next place, s. 59 authorises  the  municipality  toimpose	the  taxes therein mentioned " for the	purposes  ofthis  Act  ". The obligations and functions  cast  upon	 themunicipalities are set forth in ch.  VII of the Act.  Taxes,therefore,  can	 be  levied by	the  municipality  only	 forimplementing  those purposes and for no other  purpose.	  Inother  words it will be open to the municipality to  levy  atax for giving any of the amenities therein mentioned.76The  matter may be illustrated by reference to s.  54  whichenumerates  the	 duties of municipalities.  The	 first	dutymentioned  in that section is that the	Municipality  shouldmake  provision for lighting public streets and	 nobody	 canobject	if it imposes alighting tax, which, indeed, is	item(ix)  in s. 59(1).  Take another example: It is the duty  ofthe Municipality to arrange for supply of drinking water andit  may	 legitimately charge a water rate which,  again,  isitem  (viii)  in s. 59(1).  We do not for a  moment  suggestthat  the municipalities may only impose a tax	directly  inconnection  with the heads of duties cast upon it.  What  wesay is that the tax to be imposed must have some  reasonablerelation to the duties cast on it by the Act.  In the  thirdplace,	although  the  rule of	construction  based  on	 theprinciple of ejusdem generis cannot be invoked in this case,for  items (i) to (x) do not, strictly speaking,  belong  tothe  same genus, but they do indicate, to our mind the	kindand nature of tax which the municipalities are authorised toimpose.	  Finally, the provincial legislature had  certainlynot abdicated in favour of the municipality, for the  taxingpower of the municipality was quite definitely made  subjectto  the	 approval  of the  Governor-in-Council.	  Under	 theIndian Council Act, 1861 (24 & 25 Vic. c. 67) the  Governor-in-Council  might mean the Governor in Executive Council  orthe Governor in Legislative Council.  If the reference in s.59(1)(xi)  is  to the Governor's Legislative  Council,	thenthere was no improper delegation at all, for it was  subjectto  the legislative control of the Governor  in	 LegislativeCouncil.  The Governor's Legislative Council was composed ofall the members of the Governor's Executive Council  besidesa few other persons.  Therefore if the reference was to	 theGovernor  in  his  Executive  Council  even  then,  from   apractical point of view, the ultimate control was left	withthe Governor's Legislative Council.  We need not labour thispoint  any  further,  for on the  first	 three	grounds	 thedelegation   of	 legislative  authority,  if  any,  is	 notexcessive so as to make the exercise of it unconstitutional.In our opinion the impugned section did lay down a principleand fix a standard77which the municipalities had to follow in imposing a tax andthe  legislature  cannot, in the circumstances, be  said  tohave had abdicated itself and, therefore, the delegation  ofpower to impose any other tax cannot be struck down as beingin  excess  of	the  permissible  limits  of  delegation  oflegislative functions.The last point urged by learned counsel for the appellant isthat,  under el. (xi) of s. 59(1), the enhancements  of	 therates  of the tax in 1941 and again in 1948 were illegal  inthat the municipality had no power to do so under the BombayMunicipal Boroughs Act, 1925.  According to learned  counselfor  the appellant the judgment under appeal  upholding	 thevalidity of such enhancements cannot be supported under s.60of that Act.  That section runs as follows:-" Power to suspend 60(1)Subject to the requirements of cl-reduce or abolish	   ause (a)of the proviso to sectionany existing tax	   58  municipality			   may except as otherwise			   provide  in	clause	provided  inclause	(b) of the  proviso to section 103 at any  time	 forany  sufficient	 reason,  suspend,  modify  or	abolish	 anyexisting tax by suspending, altering or rescinding any	ruleprescribing such tax."(2)  The   provisions  of  Chapter  VII	 relating  to,	 theimposition of taxes shall apply so far as may be tothe suspension, modification or abolition of any tax and  tothe  suspension,  alteration  or  rescission  of  any	ruleprescribing a tax."Reference is made to the marginal note where the words	usedare  " power to suspend, reduce or abolish any existing	 tax". It is suggested that the word it modify " in the body  ofthe section in between the words " suspend " and " abolish "should be construed in the sense of reduction.	The marginalnote,  according to him, shows that the several	 words	wereused in the section to indicate a progressive diminution  inthe quantum of tax until it was completely gone.   Referenceis made to the root meaning of the word " modify " which  isto  reduce  or	make less but does not	cover  the  idea  ofenhancement.   In the first place, the marginal note  cannotaffect the construction of the language used in the body  ofthe  section if it is otherwise clear and  unambiguous	(seeCommissioner of78Income Tax, Bombay v. Ahmedbhai Umarbhai & Co., Bombay) (1).In the next place, it should be borne in mind that s. 67  ofthe Bombay District Municipal Act (Bom.	 III of 1901)  whichwas  formerly applicable to municipalities used the  word  "reduce	" in between the words " suspend " and "  abolish  "and  that that section had been reproduced is s. 60  of	 theBombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925, but that in the processof such reproduction the word "reduce" was dropped ,and	 theword  "modify"	was  introduced.   In  the  marginal   note,however, the word " reduce " was not substituted by the word" modify ", apparently through inadvertence.  If the word  "modify	" is to be read as "reduce", then there could be  nopoint in the provincial legislature substituting the word  "reduce	" by the word "modify".	 This change must have	beenmade with some purpose and the purpose could only have	beento  use an expression of wider connotation so as to  includenot  only  reduction  but also other  kinds  of	 alteration.Section	 76 of this very Act also refers to  "	modificationnot involving an increase in, the amount to be imposed whichmakes the sense in which the word " modify has been used  inthis  Act  perfectly  clear, namely, that  there  may  be  amodification  involving an increase.  Reference may also  bemade  to the decision of the Court of Appeal in	 England  inthe case of Stevens v. The General Steam Navigation Company,Ltd.  (2). " Modification ", according to Collins M.  R.  inhis  judgment at p. 893, implied an alteration and the	wordwas equally applicable whether the effect of the  alterationwas to narrow or to enlarge the provisions.  In our  opinionthe dropping of the word " reduce " and the introduction  ofthe  word  'modify" in the body of s. 60, of the  Act  underconsideration  clearly indicate an intention on the part  oflegislature to widen the scope of this section and the	HighCourt was right in so construing the same.No  other  point was urged in this appeal  and	for  reasonsstated above this appeal must be dismissed with costs.			       Appeal dismissed.(1)  [1950]  S.C.R. 335 at P. 353.  (2) L.R. (1903)  1	K.B.890.79