PETITIONER:BHAGAT SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJABDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/07/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1210ACT:Government Servant--Dismissal--Member of subordinate rank ofpolice	      forces--Police	   officer	  committingOffence--Departmental		   enquiry		 anddismissal--Validity--Dismissal	from service  without  freshshow  cause notice--Legality--Police Act, 1861 (V of  1861),SS.  29, 35--Government of India Act, 1935 (25 & 26 Geo.  5,Ch. 42), SS. 240(3), 243.HEADNOTE:The  appellant, who was employed in the Punjab	Police,	 wasfound  while  working as a Police Censor  to  have  detainedcertain	 letters  illegally and later to have  made  use  ofcopies	and photographs of the them for blackmail.   He	 wasconsequently  reverted	to  his	 substantive  post  of	headconstable  on January 14, 1944.	 Thereafter an	enquiry	 wasstarted	 against  him by the Superintendent  of	 Police	 andeventually  he	was dismissed from service  on	January	 25,1944.	His  representations to	 higher	 authorities  havingfailed he instituted a-suit challenging the legality of	 theorder  of dismissal on the grounds, inter alia, (1) that  S.240(3)	of the Government of India Act, 1935, had  not	beencomplied with, and (2) that as the appellant was alleged  tohave  committed	 a criminal offence  the  Superintendent  ofPolice	could not hold a departmental enquiry in respect  ofsuch allegations in view of SS. 29 and 35 of the Police Act,1861.Held : (1) that S. 243 of the Government of India Act, 1935,65which was a special provision with regard to the subordinateranks  of police forces in India, excluded the operation  ofS.  24G(3) of the Act to the appellant, who was,  therefore,governed by the conditions of service as provided under	 thePolice	Regulations,  and that the substance  of  s.  240(3)which  was brought into the Police Regulations in  September1946  long  after the appellant had been dismissed  was	 notapplicable to him.  Accordingly, he was not entitled to	 thesecond	notice,	 under S. 240(3), giving  him  a  reasonableopportunity of showing cause against the action proposed  tobe taken in regard to him.North-West  Frontier Province v. Suraj Narain  Anand  [1948]F.C.R. 103 and High Commissioner for India and High  Commis-sioner for Pakistan v. I. M. Lal, [1948] F.C.R. 44, referredto.(2)  that  the provisions of the Police Act, 1861,  relatingto offences committed by a police officer above the rank  ofa constable do not bar a departmental enquiry in respect  ofa  matter  where it is also possible to	 prosecute  such  anofficer under that Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal  No. 349 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedNovember  29,  1954,  of the Punjab High  Court	 in  RegularSecond Appeal No. 891 of 1951.Hardayal Hardy and N. N. Keswani, for the appellant.N. S. Bindra and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  July 21.	 The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO	 J.-This is an appeal by special leave	against	 thejudgment of the Punjab High Court in a service matter.	 Thebrief  facts  necessary for present purposes  are  that	 theappellant was appointed as a foot- constable in 1931 in	 thePunjab	Police	and  was  dismissed  on	 January  25,  1944.Shortly before, he was acting as an Assistant  Sub-Inspectorand actually working as a Police Censor.  The charge againsthim  was  that	while he was working as	 Police	 Censor,  hedetained certain letters illegally and had copies and photo-graphs	made  of  them	and  later  used  these	 copies	 andphotographs for blackmail.  He was consequently reverted  tohis substantive post of head constable on966January	 14,  1944.   Thereafter on  January  21,  1944,  anenquiry	 was  started against him by the  Superintendent  ofPolice	and he was eventually dismissed.  He went in  appealto  the	 Deputy	 Inspector  General  of	 Police,  which	 wasdismissed.   He	 then  went in	revision  to  the  InspectorGeneral	 of  Police,  which also failed.   Finally  he	madeseveral	  representations  and	memorials  to	the   PunjabGovernment but without avail.  Consequently the present suitwas filed by the appellant in February 1949.  The plaint  asoriginally filed, after narrating the facts relating to	 theappellant's  service,  merely  stated  that  the  charge  ofmisconduct  was brought against the appellant on account  ofenmity	and  that  the	departmental  enquiry  made  by	 theSuperintendent of Police was arbitrary and not according  tolaw, rules and regulations prescribed for the same.  Besidesthis  vague general allegation, the only specific  grievancemade  out  by  the  appellant in the  plaint  was  that	 theSuperintendent of Police had dismissed him without recordinghis  defence evidence and without giving him an	 opportunityto produce the same.  The appellant amended the plaint laterand  added  one	 more grievance, namely, that  he  had	beenappointed  by  the Deputy Inspector General  of	 Police	 andcould  only  have  been	 dismissed by him  and	not  by	 theSuperintendent	of Police.  As to the Departmental  enquiry,certain further defects therein were pointed out besides theallegation already made that his defence had not been  takenand that he had not been given an opportunity to produce it.Those further defects were (i) that he was not permitted  toengage	 counsel,  (ii)	 that  he  was	not   allowed	fullopportunity  to crossexamine the prosecution witnesses,	 and(iii) that he was not asked by the enquiry officer to  statewhat  he had to say in answer to the charge against him	 andwas not permitted to file a written-statement explaining thealleged incriminating circumstances against him.The suit was opposed on behalf of the Punjab Government	 andamong others their main defence was that the enquiry was  inaccordance with the67Regulations and was not arbitrary.  It was also denied	thatno  opportunity	 had  been given to the	 appellant  to	leaddefence	 evidence or to cross-examine prosecution  witnessesor  to make his own statement in answer to the	charge.	  Itwas  admitted  that  permission	 was  refused  to  engage  acounsel; but it was finally averred that taking the  enquiryas  a  whole there was no such defect in its conduct  as  toinvalidate it or call for interference by the courts.Three  issues, all of a general nature, were framed  by	 thetrial court, namely--1.   Whether  the  plaintiff's dismissal is  void,  illegal,inoperative and wrongful and what is its effect ?2.   Whether the Civil Courts have jurisdiction to entertainthe  suit or to go into the question of the validity of	 thedepartmental enquiry ?3.   Whether  the  suit	 for  a	 declaration  lies  and	  iscompetent and why ?It  is	unfortunate that the specific points raised  by	 theappellant  whatever  they were were not	 made  the  subject-matter of specific issues.  However, the trial court came tothe  conclusion that the case of the appellant was  governedby  s. 240(3) of the Government India Act, 1935; and it	 wasreinforced  in	this conclusion by  the	 Police	 Regulationswhich, according to it, provided for the same safeguards  aswere contained in s. 240(3).It  therefore held that as s. 240(3) had not  been  compliedwith,  the dismissal was void and illegal.. As to the  othertwo issues relating to the jurisdiction of civil courts theywere decided in favour of the appellant.There  was  an appeal to the District Judge  by	 the  PunjabGovernment.  The District Judge agreed with the	 conclusionsof the trial court on the applicability of s. 240(3) to	 thecase  of the appellant and further referred to an  amendmentin  the	 Police Regulations which required  that  before  anorder of dismissal or reduction in rank is made, the officerto  be	punished  shall	 be  produced  before  the   officerempowered to punish him and shall be informed of the charges68proved	against	 him and called upon to show  cause  why  anorder  of  dismissal  or reduction in  rank  should  not  bepassed.	   The	District  Judge	 was  conscious	 that	thisamendment in the Regulations was made in September 1946 longafter the dismissal of the appellant and therefore would notapply  to  the	appellant's  case;  but	 he  overruled	thiscontention   on	 the  ground  that  the	 rule	was   merelydeclaratory  of the law and only removed the ambiguity	thatmight  have  arisen because of s. 243 of the  Government  ofIndia Act.  He therefore dismissed the appeal.Then  followed a second appeal by the Punjab  Government  tothe High Court.	 The High Court held that s. 240(3) did	 Dotapply  to the case of the appellant and that s. 243 was	 thegoverning  section.  In consequence the High  Court  furtherheld  that the appellant was not entitled to the  protectionof s. 240(3) and as the amendment to the Police	 Regulationswhich brought in the substance of s. 240(3) therein was madeafter  the  dismissal of the appellant, he  could  not	takeadvantage  of  it.  As to the enquiry, the High	 Court	heldthat  though there might have been minor procedural  defectsin  the	 enquiry  it  was  on  the  whole  substantially  inaccordance  with the Regulations and principles	 of  naturaljustice and could not therefore be held to be invalid.	 TheHigh Court pointed out that there was no serious  contraven-tion  of the Regulations and the witnesses who had  appearedwere  cross-examined  by the appellant who was	also  calledupon to produce his defence within 48 hours.  He however didnot  choose  to do so and wanted a  postponement  which	 wasrefused	  and  thereafter  the	Superintendent	 of   Policeproceeded to dismiss him.Learned	 counsel  for  the  appellant  challenges  the	cor-erectness  of  the view taken by the High  Court  and  threepoints have been urged on his behalf before us, namely,	 (1)s.  240(3) of the Government of India Act applied to  policeofficers of subordinate rank and there was nothing in s. 243which  took  away from such officers the  protection  of  s.240(3)	; (2) Even if the Police Regulations alone  applied,there  was such violation of the relevant regulations as  tovitiate the enquiry69proceedings; and (3) The Superintendent of Police could	 nothold  a departmental enquiry as a criminal offence had	beencommitted, and reliance in this connection was placed on ss.29 and 35 of the Police Act, No. V of 1861.Re. (1).Section	 243  of  the Government of  India  Act	 appears  inChapter	 11 of Part X dealing with 'Civil  Services'.	ThatChapter begins with s. 240 and sub-s.	(3) thereof providesthat no member of a civil service or	holding	 any   civilpost in India shall be dismissed or	reduced	  in	rankuntil he has been given a reasonable opportunity of  showingcause  against the action proposed to be taken in regard  tohim.  Section 243 however is in these terms:-"  Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing  provisions  ofthis  chapter, the conditions of service of the	 subordinateranks of the various police forces in India shall be such asmay  be	 determined by or under the Act	 relating  to  thoseforces respectively."Obviously  s.  243 was a special provision  with  regard  tosubordinate ranks of police forces in India and it is not indispute	 that  the  appellant belonged	to  the	 subordinateranks.	 Therefore  according to s. 243, the  conditions  ofservice	 of the subordinate ranks are governed by  or  underthe Acts relating to police forces and s. 240(3) can have noapplication  to	 them.	The non obstante clause	 of  s.	 243makes  it  clear  that so far as the  subordinate  ranks  ofpolice forces in India are concerned, a. 243 will apply	 andnot  the  earlier provisions including s.  240(3).   We	 aretherefore of opinion that in view of the special  provisionsin s. 243 relating to the subordinate ranks of police forcesin  India (to which the appellant undoubtedly belonged),  s.240(3) would have no application.  We may in this connectionrefer  to the judgment of the Privy Council in	North-	WestFrontier  Province v. Suraj Narain Anand (1), where  it	 washeld  that  the non obstante clause in s. 243  excluded	 theoperation  of s. 240(2) in the case of subordinate ranks  ofpolice	forces	in  India and  that  conditions	 of  serviceincluded the right of dismissal.(1)  [1948] F.C.R. 103.70That case dealt with s. 240(2) but the same reasoning  wouldin  our	 opinion apply to s. 240(3).  As  has  already	beenpointed out by the learned District Judge, the substance  ofs.  240(3)  was	 brought  into	the  Police  Regulations  inSeptember  1946 long after the appellant had been  dismissedand would therefore not apply to   the appellant.  He  wouldtherefore not be entitled to  the  second  notice  under  s.240(3) as explained in I.     M.  Lall's case by  the  PrivyCouncil:   (See	  High	Commissioner  for   India   &	HighCommissioner for Pakistan v. I. M. Lall (1)).  Nor was	suchnotice	necessary  under  the  Police  Regulations  as	theyexisted at the time of the appellant's dismissal.  The	viewtaken by the High Court under the circumstances is correct.Re.  (2).So far as violation of the material provisions of r.   16.24of  the Police Regulations is concerned, we find  that	onlythree specific allegations material for the purpose were setout by the appellant, namely, (i) that he was not given	 thechance	to defend himself, (ii) that he was not	 allowed  tocross-examine  the prosecution Witnesses, and (iii) that  hewas  not  allowed  to explain  the  circumstances  appearingagainst him and was not allowed to file a written statement.It is enough in this connection to say that he was certainlygiven a chance to produce defence but did not himself  availof  it. It also appears as found by the High Court that	 thewitnesses were cross-examined by the appellant at length andon  the	 whole	there is nothing to show  that	he  was	 notallowed to explain the circumstances appearing against	him.We therefore agree with the High Court that there is no suchserious	 contravention	of the Regulations as  to  call	 forinterference by the Courts.Re. (3).Reliance  in this connection is placed on ss. 29 and  35  ofthe  Police  Act.   Section 29 provides	 for  penalties	 forneglect	 of duty etc. by police officers and lays  down	 theextent of punishment on conviction by a magistrate.  Section35 defines what magistrate can try a(1)  [1948] F.C.R. 44.71charge	against	 a police officer above the rank of  a	con-stable under the Police Act and such a magistrate has to  bea  First Class Magistrate.  These sections  nowhere  excludedepartmental enquiry.  All that they lay down is that  wherean offence punishable under the Police Act is committed by apolice	officer above the rank of a constable and is  to  betried  by a court of law it has to go before a	First  ClassMagistrate.    That,   however,	 does  not  mean   that	  nodepartmental  enquiry can be held with respect to  a  matterwhere  it  is also possible to prosecute  a  police  officerunder the Police Act.  There is no force in this  contentionalso and it is hereby rejected.The  appeal therefore fails and is hereby dismissed, but  inthe circumstances of this case we pass no order as to costs.				    Appeal dismissed.