PETITIONER:BAI HIRA DEVI AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE OFFICIAL ASSIGNEE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/02/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1958 AIR  448		  1958 SCR 1384ACT:Evidence-Deed  of  gift-Donor  adjudged	  insolvent-officialAssignee   challenging	gift-If	 donees	 entitled  to	leadevidence  showing  gift to be  transfer	 for  consideration-Whether	 Official  Assignee representative  in	interest  ofinsolvent--Evidence Act, s. 92.--Presidency-towns InsolvencyAct (III Of 1909), s. 55.HEADNOTE:One D executed, on May 22, 1950, a deed of gift in favour ofthe appellants, his wife and sons.  Upon the application  ofhis creditors D was adjudged an insolvent on August 21, 1951and  his estate vested in the respondent.  On September	 26,1951, the respondent took out a notice of motion under s. 55of  the	 Presidency-towns Insolvency Act for  a	 declarationthat  the  deed of gift was void.  In reply  the  appellantspleaded	 that the transaction, though it purported to  be  agift, was in reality a transfer for valuable  consideration.The   respondent  objected  that  the  evidence	 which	 theappellants  sought  to	lead in support of  their  plea	 wasinadmissible under s. 92 of the Indian Evidence Act :Held,  that s. 92 of the Evidence Act was not applicable  tothe  proceedings  and the appellants were entitled  to	leadevidence in support of the plea raised by them.	 Section  92is  only  applicable  to  cases as  between  parties  to  aninstrument  or	their representatives in  interest.   Where,however	 the dispute is between a stranger to an  instrumentand  a party to it or his representative in interest, S.  92is inapplicable, and both the stranger and the party or	 hisrepresentative	are  at	 liberty to lead  evidence  of	oralagreement  notwithstanding  the fact that such	evidence  ifbelieved, may contradict, vary, add to or subtract from	 itsterms.	In the present case, though the appellants were	 therepresentatives	  in   interest	 of   the   insolvent,	 therespondent,  when  he made the petition under S. 55  of	 thePresidency-towns  Insolvency  Act,  was	 not  acting  as   arepresentative in interest of the insolvent, and, therefore,the  proceedings  were	not  between  the  parties  to	 theinstrument or their representatives in interest.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.197  of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and order dated August6,1954,	 of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 30 of  1954,arising	 out  of the judgment and order	 dated	January	 28,1954, of the said High Court in Insolvency No. 74 of 1951.1385M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, S. N.  Andleyand J. B. Dadachanji, for the appellants.Purshottam Tricumdas and I. N. Shroff, for the respondent.1958.  February 20.  The following Judgment of the Court wasdelivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This appeal by special leave arises	fromthe  notice of motion taken out by the	respondent  officialassignee under s. 55 of the Presidency towns Insolvency	 Actagainst the appellants for a declaration that a deed of giftexecuted  by the insolvent Daulatram Hukamchand on  May	 22,1950, in favour of the appellants was void.  It appears thatsome  creditors	 of Daulatram filed a petition in  the	HighCourt  of  Judicature at Bombay, Insolvency Case No.  74  of1.951,	for  an order that the said  Daulatram	be  adjudgedinsolvent as he had given notice of suspension of payment ofthe debts on August 2, 1951.  Daulatram was adjudicated	 in-solvent on August 21, 1951, with the result that the  estateof the insolvent vested in the respondent under s. 17 of theAct.   On  September 26, 1951, the respondent took  out	 thepresent	 notice	 of motion.  The impugned deed of  gift	 hasbeen  executed	by the insolvent in favour of his  wife	 andthree  sons who are the appellants before us.  In  reply  tothe  notice  of	 motion	 appellants I to  3  filed  a  jointaffidavit  setting  out the facts  and	circumstances  underwhich  the  said  deed	of gift had  been  executed  by	 theinsolvent  in their favour.  In substance,  the	 appellants'case  was that, though the document purported to be a  gift,it  was	 really	 a transaction supported  by  valuable	con-sideration  and as such it did not fall within the  mischiefof  s.	55  of the Act.	 At the hearing of  this  notice  ofmotion	before	Mr.  Justice Coyajee,  when  the  appellantssought	to  lead  evidence  in support	of  this  plea,	 therespondent  objected and urged that the evidence  which	 theappellants  wanted to lead was inadmissible under s.  92  ofthe  Indian  Evidence  Act.   The  learned  Judge,  however,overruled   the	 respondent's  objection  and  allowed	 theappellants to lead1386their evidence.	 In the end the learned Judge did not acceptthe appellants' contention and, by his judgment delivered onJanuary 28, 1954, he granted the declaration claimed by	 therespondent under s. 55 of the Act. Against this judgment and order the appellants preferred anappeal (No. 30 of 1954) which was heard by Chagla C. J.	 andShah  J. The learned Judges took the view that	Mr.  JusticeCoyajee had erred in law in allowing oral evidence to be ledby  the	 appellants  in	 support  of  their  plea  that	 thetransaction  evidenced by the deed of gift was in reality  atransfer  for consideration.  The learned Judges  held	thatthe  gift  in  question had been executed by  the  donor  infavour	of the donees out of natural love and affection	 andthat, under s. 92, it was not open to the appellants to leadevidence  to show that the transaction was supported not  bythe  consideration  of	natural love and  affection  but  byanother kind of valuable consideration . On this view of thematter	the  learned Judges did not think  it  necessary  toconsider  the oral evidence actually led by  the  appellantsand  decide whether Mr. Justice Coyajee was right or not  inrejecting the said evidence on the merits.  That is how	 theappeal	preferred by the appellants was dismissed on  August6, 1964.  On September 23, 1954, the application made by theappellants for a certificate was rejected by the High  Courtat  Bombay; but special leave was granted to the  appellantsby  this  Court	 on November 3, 1954, and that	is  how	 theappeal has come before us for final disposal.The  principal point which arises in this appeal is  whetherthe  appellants were entitled to lead oral evidence  with  aview  to show the real nature of the  impugned	transaction.In deciding this question, it would be necessary to considerthe  true scope and effect of ss. 91 and 92 of the  EvidenceAct.Chapter VI of the Evidence Act which begins with s. 91 dealswith the exclusion of oral by documentary evidence.  Section91  provides that, " when the terms of a contract, or  of  agrant,	or of any other disposition of property,  have	beenreduced to the form of a document,1387and  in all cases in which any matter is required by law  tobe  reduced to the form of a document, no evidence shall  begiven in proof of the terms of such contract, grant or otherdisposition  of	 property,  or of such	matter,	 except	 thedocument  itself, or secondary evidence of its	contents  incases  in which secondary As, evidence is  admissible  underthe  provisions hereinbefore contained." The normal rule  isthat  the contents of a document must be proved	 by  primaryevidence which is the document itself in original.   Section91  is	based on what is sometimes described as the  "	bestevidence  rule ". The best evidence about the contents of  adocument is the document itself and it is the production  ofthe  document  that  is required by s. 91 in  proof  of	 itscontents.   In a sense, the rule enunciated by s. 91 can  besaid  to  be an exclusive rule inasmuch as it  excludes	 theadmission  of oral evidence for proving the contents of	 thedocument except in cases where secondary evidence is allowedto be led under the relevant provisions of the Evidence Act. Section 92 excludes the evidence of oral agreements and  itapplies	 to  cases where the terms of contracts,  grants  orother  dispositions  of	 property have been  proved  by	 theproduction of the relevant documents themselves under s.  91; in other words' it is after the document has been producedto prove its terms under s. 91 that the provisions of s.  92come into operation for the purpose of excluding evidence ofany  oral  agreement  or  statement,  for  the	purpose	  ofcontradicting,	varying, adding to or subtracting  from	 itsterms.	The application of this rule is limited to cases  asbetween	 parties to the instrument or their  representativesin  interest.  There are six provisos to this  section	withwhich we are not concerned in the present appeal.  It  wouldbe  noticed  that ss. 91 and 92 in  effect  supplement	eachother.	Section 91 would be frustrated without the aid of s.92 and s. 92 would be inoperative without the aid of s.	 91.Since s. 92 excludes the admission of oral evidence for	 thepurpose of contradicting, varying, adding to or	 subtractingfrom the terms of the document properly proved1761388under  s. 91, it may be said that it makes the proof of	 thedocument conclusive of its contents.  Like s. 91, s. 92 alsocan be said to be based oil the best evidence rule.  The twosections,  however,  differ in	some  material	particulars.Section	 91 applies to all documents,  whether they  purportto  dispose  of	 rights or not, whereas	 s.  92	 applies  todocuments which can be described as dispositive.  Section 91applies	  to   documents  which	 are  both   bilateral	 andunilateral,  unlike  s.	 92  the  application  of  which  isconfined only to bilateral documents.  Section 91 lays	downthe rule of universal application and is not confined to theexecutant  or executants of the documents.  Section  92,  onthe  other  hand, applies only between the  parties  to	 theinstrument  or their representatives in interest.  There  isno doubt that s. 92 does not apply to strangers who are	 notbound  or  affected by the terms of the	 document.   Personsother  than  those who are parties to the document  are	 notprecluded  from	 giving extrinsic  evidence  to	 contradict,vary, add to or subtract from the terms of the document.  Itis  only  where a question arises about the  effect  of	 thedocument as between the parties or their representatives  ininterest  that	the  rule  enunciated by  s.  92  about	 theexclusion  of oral agreement can be invoked.  This  positionis made absolutely clear by the provisions of s. 99  itself.Section 99 provides that " persons who are not parties to  adocument  or  their  representatives in	 interest  may	giveevidence  of  any facts tending to  show  a  contemporaneousagreement  varying the terms of the document." Though it  isonly  variation	 which is specifically mentioned in  s.	 99,there  can be no doubt that the third party's right to	leadevidence which is recognized by s. 99 would include, a rightto lead evidence not only to vary the terms of the document,but  to contradict the said terms or to add to	or  subtractfrom them.  If that be the true position, before consideringthe  effect  of	 the provisions of s. 92 in  regard  to	 theappellants'  right  to	lead  oral  evidence,  it  would  benecessary  to  examine whether s. 92 applies at all  to	 thepresent proceedings between the official assignee who is therespondent and the1389donees from the insolvent who are the appellants before us.Does the official assignee represent the insolvent, and	 canhe  be	described as the  representative-ininterest  of	 theinsolvent, when he moves the Insolvency Court under s. 55 ofthe Presidency-towns Insolvency Act ? It is true that, unders.   17	 of  the    Act,  on  the  making  of  an   order ofadjudication, the property of the insolvent wherever situatevests  in the official assignee and becomes divisible  amonghis  creditors;	 but  the property in  respect	of  which  adeclaration is claimed by the official assignee under s.  55has already gone out of the estate of the insolvent, and  itcannot be said to vest in the official assignee as a  resultof  the	 order of adjudication itself.	 Besides,  when	 theofficial assignee makes the petition under s. 55 he does  soobviously  and solely for the benefit of the creditors.	  Aninsolvent  himself has, and can possibly have, no  right  tochallenge the transfer effected by him.	 In this respect theofficial assignee has a higher title than the insolvent and,when,  under s. 55, he challenges any transfer made  by	 theinsolvent,  he acts not for the insolvent or on his  behalf,but  in	 the interest of the whole body of  the	 insolvent'screditors.  In theory and on principle, as soon as an  orderof  adjudication is made, all proceedings in regard  to	 theestate	of  the	 insolvent come under  the  control  of	 theInsolvency Court.  It may be said that the official assigneein  whom the estate of the insolvent vests is to  guard	 notonly  the  interests of the creditors of the  insolvent	 butalso  " public morality and the interest which every  memberof  the public has in the observance of commercial  morality"(1).	There  is no doubt that it is the  Insolvency  Courtalone  which  has  jurisdiction	 to  annul  the	 insolvent'stransactions,	whether	  the  case  is	 governed   by	 thePresidency-towns   Insolvency  Act  or	by  the	  ProvincialInsolvency  Act;  and so the proceedings taken under  s.  55cannot	be deemed to be proceedings taken for and on  behalfof the insolvent at all.(1)  " The Law of Insolvency in	 India " -By Rt.  Hon.	 SirD. F. Mulla,Kt.--2nd Ed., p. 231.1390The  provisions	 of  s.	 55  themselves	 support  the	sameconclusion.  Under s. 55, any transfer of property not beinga  transfer made before and in consideration of marriage  ormade in favour of a purchaser or encumbrancer in good  faithand for valuable  consideration shall, if the transferor  isadjudged insolvent within two years of the date of transfer,be  void against the official assignee.	 This section,	likes. 53-A of the Provincial Insolvency Act, makes the impugnedtransfers voidable at the instance of the official  assigneeor the receiver.  The transfers in question are not declaredvoid as between the parties themselves; they are avoided  bythe official assignee or the receiver and their avoidance isintended  to enure for the benefit of the whole body of	 thecreditors  of the insolvent.  The relevant sections  of	 thetwo Insolvency Acts in effect require the Insolvency  Courtsto  set aside the impugned transactions in exercise  of	 theInsolvency Courts' exclusive jurisdiction in that behalf Theobvious	 object of these provisions is to bring back to	 theinsolvent's  estate, property which has left the  estate  bythe impugned act of the insolvent himself and make the	saidproperty  available for distribution amongst his  creditors.It  would, therefore, be impossible to hold that,  when	 theofficial  assignee makes a petition under s. 55 of the	Act,he   is	 acting	 as  a	representative-ininterest   of	 theinsolvent.In this connection it would be relevant to remember that, incases  governed by the Presidency-towns Insolvency Act,	 thepractice  in  Calcutta	and  Bombay  consistently  allows  acreditor who has proved his debt to	file  a petition  toset aside the transfer under s.	   55 of the Act if he showsthat the official assignee, on	   being     tendered	   areasonable  indemnity  has unreasonably refused to  make  anapplication.   Similarly,  under s. 54-A of  the  ProvincialInsolvency Act, a creditor himself can make the	 applicationif  the	 receiver refuses to take any action.	Now,  if  anapplication  is	 made  by a creditor  for  setting  aside  avoluntary  transfer effected by the insolvent, there can  beno doubt that the creditor is not the representative-1391in-interest   of  the  insolvent  and  the  creditor   wouldobviously not be affected by the provisions of s. 92 of	 theIndian Evidence Act.  It would really be anomalous if s.  92were  to  apply to proceedings instituted  by  the  officialassignee  under	 s. 55 though the said	section	 cannot	 andwould  not  apply  to similar proceedings  instituted  by  acreditor.  Having regard to the object with which s. 55	 hasbeen enacted, the nature of the proceedings taken under	 it,and  the  nature  and effect of the  final  order  which  iscontemplated  under it, it is clear that, like the  creditorwho may apply, the official assignee also cannot be said  tobe the representative-in-interest of the insolvent in  theseproceedings.   If  that be the true position, s.  92  cannotapply to the present proceedings between the respondent	 andthe  appellants;  and  so there can be	no  doubt  that	 therespondent  would not be precluded from leading evidence  ofan oral agreement for the purpose of contradicting, varying,adding	to  or subtracting from the terms  of  the  impugneddocument.The question raised by Shri Purushottam which still  remainsto  be considered is whether the appellants who	 undoubtedlyare  the  representatives in interest of the  insolvent	 canavoid  the application of a. 92. In our opinion, the  answerto this question must be in favour of the appellants.  It isurged  before us by Shri Purushottam that the scheme of	 therelevant provisions of Ch.  VI of the Indian Evidence Act isinconsistent  with the appellants' contention that they	 canlead  oral  evidence about the alleged agreement  which	 maytend  to  change the character of  the	transaction  itself.Shri Purushottam bases his argument mainly on the provisionsof s. 91 read with s. 99 of the Act.  He contends that s. 91requires the production and proof of the document itself forthe purpose of proving the contents of the document; and  bynecessary implication all evidence about any oral  agreementwhich may affect the terms of the document is excluded by s.91  itself.  We are not impressed by this argument.   As  wehave already observed, ss. 91 and 92 really supplement	eachother.	 It  is	 because  s. 91 by  itself  would  not	haveexcluded1392evidence of oral agreements which may tend to vary the termsof  the document that s. 92 has been enacted; and if  s.  92does  not  apply  in the present case,	there  is  no  othersection	 in  the Evidence Act which can be said	 to  excludeevidence of the agreement set up by the appellants.  What s.91 prohibits is the admission of oral evidence to prove	 thecontents of the document.  In the present case, the terms ofthe  document are proved by the production of  the  documentitself.	  Whether or not the said terms could be  varied  byproof of an oral agreement is a matter which is not  coveredby  s. 91 at all.  That is the subject-matter of s. 92;	 andso,  if s. 92 does not apply, there is no reason to  excludeevidence  about an oral agreement solely on the ground	thatif  believed  the said evidence may vary the  terms  of	 thetransaction.  Shri Purushottam 'also relied upon the  provi-sions of s. 99.	 His argument is that it is only persons whoare  not parties to a document or their	 representatives  ininterest who are allowed by s. 99 to give evidence of  factstending	 to  show a contemporaneous  agreement	varying	 theterms of the document. lit other words, the effect of s.  99is not only to allow strangers to lead such evidence, but toprohibit  parties or their representatives-in-interest	fromleading such evidence independently of tile provisions of s.92 of the Evidence Act.	 We do not read s. 99 as laying downany such prohibition by necessary implication.	As a  matterof  fact, from the terms of s. 92 itself, it is	 clear	thatstrangers  to the document are outside the scope of s. 92  ;but  s. 99 has presumably been enacted to clarify  the	sameposition.  It would be unreasonable, we think, to hold	thats.  99	was intended not only to clarify the  position	withregard	to  the strangers to the document, but also  to	 laydown a rule of exclusion of oral evidence by implication  inrespect	  of   the  parties  to	 the   document	  or   theirrepresentatives	 in  interest.	 In our	 opinion,  the	trueposition  is that, if the terms of any transfer	 reduced  towriting are in dispute between a stringer to a document	 anda  party  to  it  or his  representative  in  interest,	 therestriction imposed by s. 92 in regard to1393the exclusion of evidence of oral agreement is inapplicable;and both the stranger to the document arid the party to	 thedocument or his representative in interest are at liberty tolead  evidence	of oral agreement notwithstanding  the	factthat  such evidence, if believed, may contradict, vary,	 addto or subtract from its terms.	The rule of exclusion  enun-ciated by s. 92 applies to both parties to the document	 andis  based  on  the  doctrine  of  mutuality.   It  would  beinequitable and unfair to enforce that rule against a  partyto a document or his representative in interest in the	caseof  a dispute between the said. party or his  representativein  interest on the one hand and the stranger on the  other.In dealing with this point we may incidentally refer to	 therelevant statement of the law by Phipson in his treatise  on" Evidence":" Where the transaction has been reduced into writing merelyby  agreement of the parties ", it is observed, "  extrinsicevidence to contradict or vary the writing is excluded	onlyin  proceedings between such parties or their  privies,	 andnot  in those between strangers, or a party and a  stranger;since  strangers cannot be precluded from proving the  truthby the ignorance, carelessness, or fraud of the parties	 (R.v. Cheadle, 3 B. and Ad. 833); nor, in proceedings between aparty  and  a stranger, will the former be  estopped,  sincethere would be no mutuality " (1).The  result  is	 that s. 92 is wholly  inapplicable  to	 thepresent	 proceedings and so the appellants are	entitled  tolead  evidence	in support of the plea raised by  them.	  Itappears	 that the attention of the learned Judges who  heardthe appeal in the High Court at Bombay was not drawn to thisaspect	of the matter.	That is why they proceeded  to	dealwith  the question about the admissibility of oral  evidenceled by the appellants on the assumption that s. 92 applied.We must accordingly set aside the decree passed by the courtof  appeal in the High Court at Bombay and send	 the  appealback to that Court for disposal on the merits in  accordancewith law.  In the circum-(1)  Phipson on Evidence-9th Ed., p. 602.1394stances	 of  this case, we think that the fair order  as  tocosts  of this appeal would be that the costs  should  abidethe  final  result in the appeal before the  High  Court  atBombay.Appeal allowed. Case remanded.