PETITIONER:SHEWPUJANRAI INDRASANRAI LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:09/05/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  845		  1959 SCR  821ACT:Smuggled  Goods-Violation of Provisions of Sea	Customs	 Actand Foreign Exchange Regulation Act --Power of Collector  ofCustoms	 to take action under Sea Customs  Act-Confiscation-Fine in lieu  of confiscation-Order of confiscation  coupledwith  conditions for release of the smuggled  goods-Legalityof  the	 order--Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878),  ss.	 19,167(8), 182, 183-Foyeign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (7 Of1947), ss. 8, 23.HEADNOTE:The appellant company was carrying on business as a  bullionmerchant and in that capacity purchased about 9478 tolas  ofgold.	On  information	 that  the  gold  in  question	 wassmuggled,  the	customs authorities issued a notice  to	 theappellant to the effect that the case had been placed beforethe   Collector	  of  Customs  for   adjudication   by	 theSuperintendent, Preventive Service, The notice stated  interalia  :-"  You	are requested to show cause  ...  why  penalaction should not be taken against you and the 9478,19 tolasof  gold in question under the provisions of ss. 167(8)	 and168  of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, for alleged violation  ofs. 19 of the same Act read with s. 8 of the Foreign ExchangeRegulation  Act,  1947 ". The Collector	 of  Customs,  afterhearing the parties, came to the conclusion that the gold inquestion   was	 smuggled  gold	 and  that   there   was   acontravention of the provisions of s. 19 of the Sea  CustomsAct  read with s. 8 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation	Act,and made an order in these terms: " I accordingly order thatthe entire quantity of the gold seized on the 21st November,1950,  amounting  to  9478.19  tolas  be  confiscated  undersection	 167(8)	 of  the  Sea  Customs	Act.   In  lieu	  ofconfiscation, however, I give the owner of the said gold  anoption,	 under	section	 183  ibid to  pay  a  fine  of	 Rs.10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) in addition to the  propercustoms	 duty and other charge leviable thereon within	fourmonths	from  the date of the despatch of  this-order.	 Therelease	 of  the  gold	will  be  further  subject  to	 theproduction of a permit from the Reserve Bank of India withinthe  aforesaid	period	".  The	 appellant  challenged	 thevalidity  of  the order and contended (i) that on  a  properconstruction  of s. 8(3) of the Foreign Exchange  RegulationAct  read  with	 s. 19 of the Sea Customs Act,	it  was	 notlegally	 open to the customs authorities to take any  actionagainst	 it under the Sea Customs Act, as such action  wouldprejudice  the provisions of S. 23 of the  Foreign  ExchangeRegulation  Act, and (2) that, in any case,  the  conditionswhich  the Collector of Customs had imposed in the  impugnedorder for release of the confiscated gold were not warrantedby the statute,822and that as the order was a composite and integrated one  itwas not severable and, therefore, should be quashed :Held,  (1)  that the scope of s. 167(8) of the	Sea  CustomsAct,  1878, is different from that of s. 23 Of	the  ForeignExchange  Regulation Act, 1947.	 Whereas under s. 23 Of	 theForeign	 Exchange  Regulation Act proceedings are  taken  inPersonam against the offender for the purpose of  penalisinghim  for the contravention of the provisions of the Act,  anorder for confiscation of the smuggled goods under s. 167(8)Of the Sea Customs Act is one in rem.There  is a difference between the expression "	 any  personconcerned  in  any  such offence " occurring  in  the  thirdcolumn	of  s.	167(8)	of  the	 Sea  Customs  Act  and	 theexpression  "whoever  contravenes any of the  provisions  ofthis  Act  "  occurring in S. 23  of  the  Foreign  ExchangeRegulation   Act.   A  person  may  be	concerned   in	 theimportation  of	 smuggled goods, without  being	 a  smugglerhimself	  or  without  himself	contravening  any   of	 theprovisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act.In  this case, the only penalty imposed under s.  167(8)  Ofthe  Sea  Customs Act was confiscation of  the	gold,  whichindicated  that	 the  customs authorities  had	dropped	 theproceedings  in personam; consequently, the adoption of	 theprocedure under the Sea Customs Act did not prejudice in anymanner	the  provisions Of.  S. 23 Of the  Foreign  ExchangeRegulation  Act.   The	question whether  two  remedies	 areavailable  to  the  authorities concerned in  respect  of  acontravention which comes both under the Sea Customs Act andthe Foreign Exchange Act was left open.(2)  The Collector of Customs had no jurisdiction to  imposethe two conditions for the release of the confiscated gold ;but, as the aforesaid conditions are severable from the restof  the	 impugned  order,  the latter is  valid	 as  to	 theconfiscation  of  the gold and the payment of fine  in	lieuthereof.R.   M. D. Chamarbaugwalla v. Union of India, [1957]  S.C.R.930  and  Shri Ram Krishna.  Dalmia v. Shri  justice  S.  R.Tendolkar and others, [1959] S.C.R. 279, applied.The relevant sections of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, and	 theForeign	 Exchange Regulation Act, 1947, are set out  in	 thejudgment.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 256 of 1954.Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated July 3, 1953,  ofthe Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Original Order No.  7of 1953, arising out of the judgment and decree dated August5, 1952, of the said High Court in Matter No. 84 of 1952.823N.   C.	 Chatterjee, S. K. Kapur and I. N. Shroff,  for	 theappellant.C.   K. Daphtary Solicitor--General of India, H. J.  Umrigarand R. H. Dhebar, for respondents Nos.	1 to 3.B.   Sen,  S. N. Mukherjee, and B. N. Ghosh, for  respondentNo. 4.Veda Vyasa and B. P. Maheshwari, for respondent No. 5.1958.  May 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.   K.	 DAS J.-This appeal has come to us on a	 certificategranted by the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta that thecase is a fit one for appeal to this Court.The  appellant is Shewpujanrai lndrasanrai Ltd.,  a  privatelimited company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act,1913  and  carrying on business at 69, Manohar	Das  Street,Calcutta.   Respondents I and 3 are the Customs	 authoritiesconcerned;   respondent	 2  is	the  Union  of	India,	 andrespondents  4	and  5 are two	banks,	called	respectivelyNationale Handels Bank N. V., a foreign company carrying  Onbusiness  at 1, Royal Exchange Place, Calcutta,	 and  BharatBank Ltd., a company incorporated under the Indian CompaniesAct,  1913, and having its registered office at 143,  CottonStreet, Calcutta.The material facts are these.  The appellant Company carrieson business as a bullion merchant and in that capacity	usedto  buy gold and silver in the Calcutta and  Bombay  marketsand  sell the same either direct or through bankers  at	 theaforesaid  two places.	It is stated that  between  November14,1950,  and November 20, 1950, the appellant Company,	 illthe  usual  course of its business,  purchased	about  9,478tolas  of  gold,  and  in respect  of  the  said  purchases,borrowed  money	 from  respondents  4 and  5.  The  gold  sopurchased  was	deposited  with	 the  respondent  banks	  assecurity  for the loans taken, 7,044 tolas  being  depositedwith respondent 4 and about 2,437 tolas105824with  respondent  5.  With  the	 consent  of  the  appellantCompany, the two Banks respondents 4 and 5, sent the gold tothe  Calcutta Min for the purpose of assaying.	On  November20, 1950, the Collector of Customs, Calcutta, asked the Mintauthorities  not to part with the gold, and on November	 21,1950,  the  gold was seized at the instance of	the  Customsauthorities,  Calcutta,	 in pursuance of  a  search  warrantissued by the Chief Presidency Magistrate, Calcutta.  On thesame day, certain books of account of the appellant  companywere. also seized from its place of business at 69,  ManoharDas  Street.  Oil November 22, 1950, the  appellant  Companyreceived a letter signed by one Jasjit Singh of the  CustomsDepartment, requesting the presence of the appellant at	 theCustoms House on November 27, 1950, for opening and checkingthe  bags  of bullion which had been seized from  the  Mint.Thereafter followed some correspondence, details whereof arenot   necessary	 for  our  purpose,  between   the   Customsauthorities  and Messrs.  Sawday & Co., acting on behalf  ofthe appellant Company.	On December 19, 1950, the  appellantCompany	 made an application in the High Court	of  Calcuttaunder Art. 226 of the Constitution in which it asked for theissue of appropriate writs or orders quashing the orders  ofseizure and detention of its gold and books of account,	 andfor  a	further direction that the  Customs  authorities  beprohibited  from  giving  effect  to  the  said	 orders	  ofdetention and seizure or from taking any steps in connectionwith  the  gold or the books of account seized.	  This	writapplication  was heard and disposed of by an order  made  byBose  J. of the Calcutta High Court on April 23,  1951,	 theresult of which was that the rule was made absolute to	thisextent	only  that the seizure of the books of	account	 wasdeclared  to  be illegal and a direction was made  that	 thebooks  be returned forthwith to the appellant  Company.	  Noorder was made about the gold seized and detained.On  June 20, 1951, the Customs authorities sent a notice  tothe appellant Company which was in these terms:-825Subject	  :-Seizure  of	 9,478-19  tolas  of  gold  at	 theGovernment of India Mint, Strand Road, Calcutta.I  have been directed by the Collector of Customs to  informyou  that  the	above case has been placed  before  him	 foradjudication  by the Superintendent, Preventive Service.   Acopy  of  the  note submitted by the  latter  together	withcopies of the assay reports therein	referred   to	 areenclosed herewith.2.  You	 are  requested	 to show  cause	 in  writing  withinfourteen  days from date hereof why penal action should	 notbe  taken  against  you and the 9,478.19 tolas	of  gold  inquestion  under the provisions of sections 167 clause 8	 and168  of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, for alleged violation  ofsection	 19  of	 the same Act read with	 section  8  of	 theForeign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947.3.   You   are	also  requested	 to  send  copies   of	 alldocumentary   evidence	including  all	books  of   account,vouchers etc., along with your explanation.4.   On	 receipt  of  your explanation,	 the  Collector	 hasdirected  me to further inform you that in this case a	dateand  time  will be fixed for hearing at which  you  will  berequired  to  produce all oral evidence in support  of	yourexplanation and also to make your submissions."This  notice  was issued on the strength of  an	 informationcontained  in  a note which the	 Superintendent,  PreventiveService of the Customs authorities, submitted and which saidthat  the gold in question had been smuggled into  India  inviolation  of  the provisions of the Sea Customs  Act,	1878(hereinafter  referred	to as the Sea Customs Act)  and	 theForeign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (hereinafter  referredto  as the Foreign Exchange Act) and that the gold had	beensent  to the Mint for processing; that is, for	melting	 andcasting	 the same into bars, weighing and stamping the	samewith  the  Mint	 Marks, and  also  assaying  small  portionsthereof.   On July 3, 1951, the appellant Company  submittedits  explanation  in answer to the  aforesaid  notice.	 The-parties  were then heard by the then Collector of  Customs,Sri Raja Ram Rao; but before the hearing could conclude, SriRaja Ram.826Rao  was transferred.  His successor, Mr. J. W.	 Orr,  heardthe  parties on some days; but on October 11, 1951, Mr.	 Orrwas succeeded by Sri A. N. Puri.  This latter officer  heardthe parties afresh and concluded the hearing on February  8,1952.	On  May 14, 1952, Sri A. N. Puri  passed  the  orderimpugned  in this case, in which he came to  the  conclusionthat the gold in question (9,478.19 tolas) was smuggled goldand  that there was a contravention of the provisions of  s.19  of	the Sea Customs Act read with s. 8  of	the  ForeignExchange  Act.	The final order which he made was  in  theseterms :-"  I accordingly order that the entire quantity of the	goldseized	on  the 21st November, 1950, amounting	to  9,478.19tolas be confiscated under section 167(8) of the Sea CustomsAct.  In lieu of confiscation, however, I give the owner  ofthe said gold an option under section 183 ibid to pay a fineof Rs. 10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) in addition to	 theproper customs duty and other charge leviable thereon withinfour  months  from the date of the despatch of	this  order.The  release  of  the gold will be further  subject  to	 theproduction  of a permit from Reserve Bank of  -India  withinthe aforesaid period.  "On June 19, 1952, the appellant Company filed a second	writpetition  in  the High Court of Calcutta in which  it  askedthat (a) a writ of certiorari do issue against respondents Ito  3  calling	upon  them to  produce	the  record  of	 theproceeding  resulting in the impugned order of May  14,1952,and  for quashing the same; (b) a writ of mandamus do  issuerequiring  respondents 1 to 3 to forbear from giving  effectto the orders of seizure, detention and confiscation of	 theappellant's gold and further requiring the said	 respondentsto  return  the	 gold to the appellant; and (e)	 a  writ  ofprohibition  do issue restraining the said respondents	fromtaking	any  further  steps in pursuance  of  the  order  ofconfiscation  etc.  This second writ application  was  dealtwith and disposed of by Bose J. by his order dated August 5,1952.	Broadly speaking, the two main grounds on  which  heheld the impugned order to be bad ",ere these.	The  learnedJudge held827that  by purporting to proceed under 182 of the Sea  CustomsAct  in the present case, the Customs authorities had  actedin  prejudice  to  the provisions of s. 23  of	the  ForeignExchange  Act  and this was in violation of s. 8(3)  of	 theForeign	 Exchange Act as it stood at the relevant time.	  Hesaid:"  If the petitioners had not been implicated in the  chargeit  might  have	 been open to  the  Customs  authorities  toproceed under section 182 if steps were intended to be takenonly  against  the offending goods but the  notice  to	showcause makes it clear that that is not the case.	 Although  Iam not prepared to go to the length of holding that  section23  of	the  Foreign  Exchange	Regulation  Act	  altogetherexcludes the operation of section 182 of the Sea Customs Actand  although  I have no doubt, that  in  appropriate  caseswhere  section 23 is not attracted, recourse can be  had  tosection 182 of the Sea Customs Act, the present case is	 onein which adoption of the procedure under section 182 of	 theSea  Customs  Act has prejudiced section 23 of	the  ForeignExchange Regulation Act.  The entire proceedings before	 theCustoms	 authorities  must therefore be held to	 be  withoutjurisdiction.  "Secondly, he held that the conditions which the Collector ofCustoms had imposed in the impugned order for release of theconfiscated  gold were not warranted by the statute, and  asthe impugned order was one composite order, different  partswhereof could not be severed one from the other, the  entireorder  must be held to have been made without  jurisdiction.On these findings, the rule was made absolute, the  impugnedorder  was quashed and respondents I to 3 were	directed  toforbear from giving effect to the order.Then there was an appeal which was heard by a Division Benchconsisting  of Das and Mookerjee JJ.  That Bench  held	thatthe  proceeding under the Sea Customs Act was in the  natureof  a  proceeding  in rem and an order	of  confiscation  orpenalty passed in such a proceeding was not a quasi judicialact,  but an administrative or executive act, in respect  ofwhich  no application for the issue of a writ of  certiorariunder828Art.  226 of the Constitution lay.  On a construction of  s.8(3)  of  the  Foreign	Exchange Act, as  it  stood  at	 therelevant  time,	 it  held that	the  restrictions  mentionedtherein had a double effect and the remedies available unders.  167(8)  of the Sea Customs Act and under s.	 23  of	 theForeign Exchange Act were cumulative in nature.	 It said:"  The	former	remedy (meaning the  remedy  under  the	 SeaCustoms	 Act) is intended to levy the customs duties and  ismainly	directed  against the goods; the  latter  is  penal,intended  to  punish  the person concerned  in	the  act  ofsmuggling.   There  is	thus  no  question  of	the   formerproceeding prejudicing the latter proceeding.  "Accordingly the Division Bench held that the first ground onwhich Bose J. had held the impugned order to be bad was	 notsustainable.   With regard to the conditions imposed in	 theimpugned  order for the release of the confiscated gold,  itheld that the invalidity, if any, of the imposition of	suchconditions  did not affect the main order  of  confiscation.It saidSection 183 casts an imerative duty on the officer adjudgingconfiscation  to  give the owner of the goods an  option  toparty  such  a	fine as the officer thinks fit	in  lieu  ofconfiscation.	 The  duty  so	cast  is  an   exercise	  ofjurisdiction  by the officer concerned quite  separate	fromthe  exercise  of  his	jurisdiction  under  section  167(8)imposing  confiscation and penalty.  If any  illegality	 hasattached in the matter of exercise of his jurisdiction undersection 183, the illegal condition may be set aside.  "In  the	 result, it accepted the appeal and  set  aside	 thejudgment and order of Bose J.The present appeal is from the aforesaid judgment and  orderof the Division Bench dated July 3, 1953.There  are two preliminary points which we may	convenientlydispose	 of  here, before we go on to the  main	 contentionsurged  on  behalf  of the appellant Company.   In  giving  acertificate  in	 this case the learned Chief  Justice,	withwhom  Das  Gupta  J. agreed, expressed	the  view  that	 thequestion whether the proceeding in which the order  appealedfrom was829made  was  of a civil or crinlinal nature, or  was,  in	 thelanguage of Art. 132 of the Constitution, other	 proceeding'was  not free from difficulty; he added that, in any  event,Art.  135 of the Constitution applied in the  present  case,because	 it  was  not disputed	that  certain  questions  ofinterpretation	of  the	 Constitution  were  involved	and,therefore,  the case was clearly one where an  appeal  wouldlie to the Federal Court immediately before the commencementof  the Constitution.  The learned Solicitoreneral, who	 hasappeared before us on behalf' of respondents I to 3, has notaccepted  as  correct the view that Art. 135  justified	 thegrant  of a certificate in this case.  He has not,  however,pressed	 us  to	 decide in this case  the  question  of	 thecompetency  of the certificate given by the High Court,	 andhas  raised  no	 objection to a decision of  the  appeal  onmerits.	  The  question	 whether  a  proceeding	 on  a	writapplication  is	 of a civil or criminal	 nature	 within	 themeaning	 of  those expressions in Arts. 133 and 134  of	 theConstitution  has led to some divergence of opinion  in	 theHigh  Courts,  and  we	understand that it  is	one  of	 thequestions for decision in some cases which we have  recentlyadmitted.   In the view which we have taken of	the  presentcase on merits and the further eircumstance that it is	opento us to give special leave to the appellant under Art,. 136of the Constitution, we do not think that it is necessary inthe  present  case  to decide the  question  mooted  by	 thelearned Chief Justice in his order dated -December 1,  1953,and we prefer not to express any opinion thereon.The  other point relates to the view expressed by  the	HighCourt	in  the	 order	under  appeal  that  an	  order	  ofconfiscation or penalty under the Sea Customs Act is a	mereadministrative	or  executive act, in respect  of  whic`  noapplication for a writ of certiorari lies.  It is  necessaryto  state  that	 the point is now concluded  by	 two  recentdecisions  of  this  Court.  In F. N. Roy  v.  Collector  OfCustoms,  Calcutta (1), this Court held that the  impositionof a fine under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act was  reallya quasi-judicial act and in the(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 1151.830later  decision	 of  Leo Roy  Frey  v.	The  Superintendent,District  Jail, Amritsar and another (1),  it has been	heldthat  in imposing confiscation and penalties under  the	 SeaCustoms Act, the Collector acts judicially.  Therefore,	 theview that an order of confiscation or penalty under the	 SeaCustoms Act is a mere administrative or executive act is  nolonger tenable.Now,  we proceed to a consideration of the two	main  pointsurged  on  behalf  of the appellant Company.   It  has	beenargued	before us that on a proper construction of s. 8	 (3)of  the	 Foreign Exchange Act (as it stood at  the  relevanttime)  read  with s. 19 of the Sea Customs Act, it  was	 notlegally open to the customs authorities in the present	caseto  take any action against the appellant Company under	 theSea Customs Act, as such action prejudiced the provisions ofs. 23 of the Foreign Exchange Act.  To appreciate this pointit is necessary to read some of the relevant sections of theForeign Exchange Act and the Sea Customs Act.Sub-sections (1) and (2) of s. 8 of the Foreign Exchange Actimpose	restrictions  on import and export of  currency	 andbullion.   Sub-section	(1)  states, inter  alia,  that	 theCentral	 Government  may, by notification  in  the  officialgazette,  order that, subject to such exemption, if any,  asmay  be	 contained  in the notification,  no  person  shall,except with the general or special permission of the ReserveBank,  bring  or send into the-States any  gold	 or  silver.Such a notification was published on August 25, 1948,  whichsaid  in  substance that except with the permission  of	 theReserve Bank, no person shall bring into the States from anyplace outside India. any gold, bullion, etc, sub-section (3)was  at the relevant time in these terms-8 (3) The restrictions imposed by subsections(1)  and (2) shall be deemed to have been imposed undersection	 19 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, without  prejudiceto  the	 provisions of section 23 of this Act, and  all	 theprovisions of that Act shall have effect accordingly."The aforesaid sub-section was later deleted by Act(i)  [1958] S.C.R. 822.831VIII  of  1952,	 and  a	 new  section,	namely,	 s.  23A,wasintroduced  which provided inter alia that the	restrictionsimposed	 by sub-ss. (1) and (2) of s. 8 shall be  deemed  tohave been imposed under s. 19 of the Sea Customs Act and allthe  provisions	 of that Act shall have	 effect	 accordinglyexcept	that s. 183 thereof shall have effect as if for	 theword  " shall " therein, the word " may " were	substituted.At  the time relevant for the purpose of the  present  case,sub-s.	(3)  of s. 8 was in full force and  effect  and	 thequestion  under	 our consideration has to  be  decided	withreference to that sub-section.	We then come to s. 23 of theForeign Exchange Act which at the relevant time was in theseterms:-" 23.  Penalty and Procedure.-(1) Whoever contravenes any ofthe  provisions	 of this Act or of any	rule,  direction  ororder made thereunder shall be punishable with	imprisonmentfor  a	term which may extend to two years or with  fine  orwith both, and any Court-trying any such contravention	may,if  it thinks fit and in addition to any sentence  which  itmay impose for such contravention, direct that any currency,security,  gold	 or silver, or goods or	 other	property  inrespect of which the contravention has taken place shall  beconfiscated.(2)............................................................(3)   No  Court	 shall	take  cognisaince  of  any   offencepunishable under this section...... except upon a  complaintin writing made by a person authorised in this behalf by theCentral	 Government  or	 the Reserve Bank by  a	 general  orspecial order:Provided that where any such offence is the contravention ofany of the provisions of this Act or any rule, direction  ororder  made thereunder which prohibits the doing of  an	 actwithout	 permission, no such complaint shall be made  unlessthe  person  accused  of  the  offence	has  been  given  anopportunity of showing that he had such -permission.(4)  If	 the person committing an offence  punishable  underthis  section  is a company or other body  corporate,  everydirector, manager, secretary, or other 106832officer thereof shall, unless he proves that the offence wascommitted without his knowledge or that he exercised all duediligence to prevent its commission, be deemed to be  guiltyof such offence."Turning now to the Sea Customs Act, we start withs.   19 which is in Chapter IV.	 It says-"  19.	 The Central Government may, from time to  time,  bynotification  in the Official Gazette, prohibit or  restrictthe  bringing  or  taking by sea or by	land  goods  of	 anyspecified  description	into  or out  of  India	 across	 anycustoms frontier as defined by the Central Government."Section 167 occurs in Chapter XVI of the Sea Customs Act andin so far as it is relevant for our purpose, it states-"  167.	 The offences mentioned in the first column  of	 thefollowing  schedule  shall  be	punishable  to	the   extentmentioned in the third column of the same with reference  tosuch offences respectively:-	   Section ofOffences.	  this Act to	      Penalties.	   which offence	   has reference.8. If any goods the		   Such goods shall be   importation or		   liable to confiscation   exportation of		   and any person concerned   which is for the		   in any such offence shall   time being prohibited	   be liable to a penalty   or restricted by or	 18 $ 19   not exceeding three times   under Chapter IV of this	   the value of the goods,   Act, be imported into	   or not exceeding one   or exported from India	   thousand rupees   contrary to such   prohibition or   restriction;Section	 182 of the Sea Customs Act deals with	adjudicationof  confiscation  and  penalties  referred  to	in  s.	 167aforesaid.  It states-833" 182.	In every case, except the cases mentioned in section167,  Nos  26, 72 and 74 to 76, both  inclusive,  in  which,under  this  Act, anything is liable to confiscation  or  toincreased  rates  of  duty; or any person  is  liable  to  apenalty,  such	confiscation,  increased  rate	of  duty  orpenalty may be adjudged-(a)  without   limit,  by  a  Deputy   Commissioner   DeputyCollector of Customs, or a Customs-collector;(b)  up	 to confiscation of goods not exceeding two  hundredand fifty rupees in value, and imposition of penalty   orincreased  duty,  not exceeding one hundred  rupees,  by  anAssistant Commissioner or Assistant Collector of Customs;(c)  up to confiscation of goods not exceeding fifty  rupeesin  value, and imposition of penalty or increased  duty	 notexceeding ten rupees, by such other subordinate officers  ofCustoms	 as  the Chief Customs-authority may, from  time  totime, empower in that behalf in virtue of their office:Provided  that the Chief Customs-authority may, in the	caseof any officer performing the duties of a Customs-collector,limit  his  powers to those indicated in clause	 (b)  or  inclause	(c) of this section, and may confer on any  officer,by name or in virtue of his office, the powers indicated  inclauses (a), (b) or (c) of this section."Section 183 has an important bearing on one of the questionsurged before us and is in these terms:" 183.	Whenever confiscation is authorised by this Act, theofficer	 adjudging it shall give the owner of the  goods  anoption	to  pay	 in lieu of confiscation such  fine  as	 theofficer thinks fit."Section	 184  of the Sea Customs Act  states  that  wheneveranything  is  confiscated  under s. 182,  such	thing  shallthereupon  vest	 in Government, and  the  officer  adjudgingconfiscation  shall  take and hold possession of  the  thingconfiscated and every officer of police, on the	 requisitionof  such  officer, shall assist in taking and  holding	suchpossession.   Section  186 of the Sea  Customs	Act  states,inter  alia, that the award of any confiscation, penalty  orincreased  rate	 of  duty under the Act	 by  an	 officer  ofCustoms shall not prevent the834infliction  of any punishment to which the  person  affectedthereby is liable under any other law.Now,  the argument urged on behalf of the appellant  arisingas it does out of s. 8(3) of the Foreign Exchange Act and s.19 of the Sea Customs Act is this.  Under sub-s. (3) of s. 8a  restriction imposed by a notification made  under  sub-s.(1)  of	 the section shall be deemed to	 have  been  imposedunder s. 19 of the Sea Customs Act and all the provisions ofthe  Sea Customs Act shall have effect accordingly; but	 theargument  is  that this deeming provision is subject  to  animportant  qualification  contained  in	 the  words  withoutprejudice  to the provisions of s. 23 of this Act',  meaningthereby	 the Foreign Exchange Act.  The contention  is	thatthough	the restriction imposed under sub-s. (1) of s. 8  isto  be	deemed to have been imposed under s. 19 of  the	 SeaCustoms	 Act,  such deeming is to be without  prejudice	 to,that  is, subject to the provisions of s. 23 of the  ForeignExchange Act; therefore, where a contravention of any of theprovisions of the Foreign Exchange Act has taken place	suchas  is	punishable  under s. 23	 thereof,  the	only  remedyavailable  in such a case is the one under s. 23 and  it  isnot  open to the Customs authorities to take action  againstthe  offender  under  ss. 167 (8), 182 and 183	of  the	 SeaCustoms	 Act.  It is contended that this is the	 true  scopeand  effect  of sub-s. (3) of s. 8 of the  Foreign  ExchangeAct, if due regard is paid to the clause 'without  prejudiceto  the provisions of s. 23 of this Act	 occurring  therein.It  is further pointed out that there is power under  s.  23itself	to  confiscate	the goods in respect  of  which	 thecontravention has taken place.On  behalf of respondents I to 3, however, it  is  contendedthat the clause " without prejudice to the provisions of  s.23 " does not mean "subject to the provisions of s. 23 " andits true effect is merely this: when there is  contraventionof  the restrictions imposed by sub-s. (1) and (2) of s.  8,which restrictions are deemed to have been imposed under  s.19  of	the Sea Customs Act, the contravention	may  have  adouble effect; it involves a violation of the provisions  ofthe Sea Customs Act and may at the same time involve     835a violation of the provisions of the ForeignExchange	Actand, if the offender is known, two remedies may be availableto the authoritiesconcerned;  one  remedy  is  to  proceedunder the relevant provisions of the Sea Customs Act and theother under the relevant provisions of the Foreign  ExchangeAct.   These  two  are concurrent remedies,  which  are	 notmutually  exclusive, though in the matter of punishment	 thequestion  may arise whether a person can be  punished  twicefor the same act or offence.On  a  careful consideration of these rival  contentions  wehave come to the conclusion that it is not necessary on	 thefacts  of the present case to decide the larger question  asto  whether  two remedies are available to  the	 authoritiesconcerned  in  respect of a contravention which	 comes	bothunder  the Sea Customs Act and the Foreign Exchange Act	 andif  so,	 to  what extent the two  remedies  are	 concurrent,cumulative  or otherwise.  Let us confine ourselves  to	 theapplication  of sub-s. (3) of s. 8 of the  Foreign  ExchangeAct  to	 the facts of this case.   That	 sub-section  statesfirstly,  that the restrictions imposed by sub-ss.  (1)	 and(2) shall be deemed to have been imposed under s. 19 of	 theSea  Customs  Act ; secondly, it states that  the  aforesaiddeeming	  provision  shall  be	without	 prejudice  to	 theprovisions  of	s.  23	of the	Foreign	 Exchange  Act;	 andthirdly,  it  states  that all the  provisions	of  the	 SeaCustoms Act shall have effect accordingly.  The constructionput forward on behalf of the appellant Company is that wheres.  23 of the Foreign Exchange Act is applicable, any  otherremedy under the Sea Customs Act is barred; because that  isthe effect of the second part of the sub-section which	saysthat the deeming provision shall be without prejudice to theprovisions  of	s. 23 and the concluding part  of  the	sub-section	 which	says  that all the  provisions	of  the	 SeaCustoms	 Act shall have effect accordingly is controlled  bythe  second part, as is indicated by the use of the  word  'accordingly  therein.  The learned Solicitor-General has putforward	 a  different construction.  According to  him,	 thesecond	part  of  the  sub-section  when  it  says   withoutprejudice to the provisions of s. 23' merely836means  that the remedy under s. 23 is also available  in  anappropriate  case, but it does not bar the remedy  availableunder  the  Sea	 Customs  Act;	otherwise,  the	 third	 andconcluding  part of the sub-section is	renderedotiose.	  Hehas  further  suported his contention by a reference  to  s.23A,  inserted	in 1952, which repeats	the  phraseology  ofdeleted	 sub-s. (3) of s. 8 but makes it sufficiently  clearwhat  the meaning of the clause I without prejudice  to	 theprovisions of s. 23 is.We do not so decide, but let us assume that the constructionput  forward  on  behalf of the appellant is  the  one	thatshould be accepted in this case.  The question then  is-doess. 23 of the Foreign Exchange Act apply to the facts of thiscase  and could the appellant Company be  proceeded  againstunder  that  section ? A distinction must at once  be  drawnbetween	 an  action  in rem and a  proceeding  in  personal.Section	 23  of	 the Foreign Exchange Act  is  a  proceedingagainst	 the offender, and is applicable to the	 person	 whocontravenes  any of the provisions of that Act, even  thoughon a conviction for such contravention, the Court may, if itthinks	fit  and in addition to any sentence  which  it	 mayimpose	for  such contravention, direct that  the  goods  inrespect	 of  which  the contravention  has  taken  place  beconfiscated.   In  substance it is a  proceeding  against  aperson for the purpose of penalising him for a contraventionof  the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Act, and  such  aproceeding  is available when the offender is known.   Take,however,  a  case  where the  offender	(the  smuggler,	 forexample) is not known, but the goods in respect of which thecontravention  has  taken  place are  known  and  have	beenseized.	 Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act	contemplatesa case of this nature, when it describes the offence in col.1 in the following words-,,  If	any goods, the importation or exportation  of  whichis............ prohibited or restricted be imported into  orexported   from	 India	contrary  to  such  prohibition	  orrestriction."The  penalty provided is that the goods shall be  liable  toconfiscation.	There is a further provision in the  penaltycolumn that any person concerned in any such837offence	 shall	be liable to a penalty not  exceeding  threetimes the value of the goods etc.  The point to note is thatso far as the confiscation of the goods is concerned, it  isa  proceeding  in and the penalty is  enforced	against	 thegoods whether the offender is known or not known; the  orderof  confiscation  under s. 182, Sea  Customs  Act,  operatesdirectly  upon the status of the property, and under s.	 184transfers an absolute title to Government.  Therefore, in  acase where the Customs authorities can proceed only  againstthe goods, there can be no question of applying s. 23 of theForeign	 Exchange  Act	and even  on  the  construction	 putforward	 on behalf of the appellant Company as	respects  s.8(3),  the  remedy  under the Sea Customs  Act	against	 thesmuggled  goods cannot be barred; when on the facts  of	 thecase  s.  23  can  have	 no  application,  no  question	  ofprejudicing its provisions by the adoption of the  procedureunder the Sea Customs Act can at all arise.Bose J. was fully aware of this distinction between s. 23 ofthe  Foreign Exchange Act and s. 167(8) of the	Sea  CustomsAct.  Indeed, he expressly said that he had no doubt that inappropriate cases where s. 23 is not attracted, recourse canbe  had	 to s. 182 of the Sea Customs Act; but	lie  thoughtthat the notice which was issued to the appellant Company inthis case on June 20, 1951, showed that the intention was toproceed	 against the offender also, and this,  according  tohim, made a difference and brought in s. 23.  We are  unableto agree.  We have quoted. the notice in an earlier part  ofthis judgment.	The notice asked the appellant to show causewhy penal action should not be taken against it and the goldunder  the provisions of s. 167(8) for alleged violation  ofs.  19,	 Sea Customs Act, and s. 8,  Foreign  Exchange	Act.Neither	 the  notice, nor the note  of	the  Superintendent,Preventive Service (enclosed with the notice) suggested thatthe  appellant	was the smuggler and, therefore,  liable  topenalty	 under s. 23 of the Foreign Exchange  Act.   Section167(8)	of  the Sea Customs Act provides for  two  kinds  ofpenalties  when	 contraband  goods  are	 imported  into	  orexported from India; one is confiscation of the838goods which is an order in rem and the other is a penalty onthe  person  concerned	in any such offence;  that  is,	 theoffence described in column I of item (8).  Taking the	viewmost  favourable to the appellant, it may be said  that	 thenotice contemplated both kinds of proceedings namely one  inrem  and  the other in personam and asked the  appellant  toshow   cause  against  the  imposition	of  both   penaltiesmentioned  in the third column of s. 167(8); but the  noticedid  not show any intention, nor did it suggest even a	pos-sibility, of proceeding against the appellant under s. 23 ofthe   Foreign  Exchange	 Act.	There  is,  we	 think,	  anappreciable  difference	 between the expression	 any  personconcerned in any such offence' occurring in the third columnof  s.	167(8)	of the Sea Customs Act	and  the  expressionwhoever	 contravenes  any  of the  provisions  of  this	 Actoccurring  in s. 23 of the Foreign Exchange Act.   A  personmay  be	 concerned  in the  importation	 of  smuggled  gold,without	  being	 a  smuggler  himself  or  without   himselfcontravening  any of the provisions of the Foreign  ExchangeAct.   In  this sense, the scope of s. 167(8),	Sea  CustomsAct, is different from that of s. 23 of the Foreign ExchangeAct.   Moreover,  in the case under our	 consideration,	 theonly penalty imposed under s. 167(8) was the confiscation ofthe gold which indicates that the authorities proceeded withthe  proceeding	 in  rem  and  dropped	the  proceeding	  inpersonam;   therefore,	no  question  of   prejudicing	 theprovisions  of	s. 23, Foreign Exchange Act, arose  in	thiscase.	We think that Bose J. was in error in thinking	thatthe  adoption  of the procedure under the  Sea	Customs	 Actprejudiced  in	any  way the provisions of  s.	23,  ForeignExchange Act, in the present case.On  this  finding, it is unnecessary to go into any  of	 thelarger	questions  which  were canvassed before	 us  in	 thecourse	of arguments.  We were addressed at some  length  on(1) what would happen to the smuggled goods if the  offenderdied  in  the  course  of  a trial  tinder  s.	23  and	 theprovisions  of the Sea Customs Act were not available;	(ii)what  would  be the position if two  contradictory  findingswere given with regard to the839goods-one  by the Customs authorities under the Sea  CustomsAct  and  the  other  by the Court  tinder  s.	23,  ForeignExchange Act-in case two concurrent remedies were open;	 and(iii)  what  would  happen to the  safeguards  given  to  anaccused	 person under s. 23, if it were open to the  Customsauthorities  to	 by-pass  s. 23,and proceed  under  the	 SeaCustoms	 Act.  These are interesting and, may be,  importantquestions;  and we have no doubt that they will	 be  decidedwhen  they really fall for decision in an appropriate  case.In the case under present consideration, it is sufficient tostate  that on the facts found, no prejudice was  caused  tothe provisions of s. 23 by adopting the procedure  resultingin the impugned order of confiscation, and the contention ofthe   appellant	  that	the  Customs  authorities   had	  nojurisdiction  to adopt the procedure under the	Sea  CustomsAct cannot be accepted as correct.This brings us to the second main contention urged on behalfof  the appellant.  By the impugned order the  Collector  ofCustoms	 confiscated the gold, and in lieu thereof gave	 theappellant  an option to pay a fine of Rs  10,00,000  (Rupeesten  lakhs).  It is not disputed that the impugned order  upto  the extent stated above was within his  jurisdiction  tomake.  The Collector, however, imposed two other  conditionsfor  the  release  of  the confiscated	gold;  one  was	 theproduction  of	a permit from the Reserve Bank of  India  inrespect	 of  the gold within four months from  the  date  ofdespatch of the impugned order and the other was the paymentof  proper  customs  duties and other  charges	leviable  inrespect	 of the gold within the same period of four  months.The  High  Court  held,	 rightly in  our  opinion  that	 theCollector  had no jurisdictin  to imposposed  the  aforesaidtwo conditions.	 It has been fairly concened by the  learnedSolicitor-General that there is no provision in the  ForeignExchange Act or the Sea Customs Act under which the  ReserveBank could give permission in respect of smuggled gold	withretrospective effect; if it could, there would be no offenceunder s.  167(8) and the order of confiscation itself  wouldbe107840bad.  As to the second condition of payment of customs	dutyetc.,  the  learned  Solicitor-General	referred  us  to   adecision of the Bombay High Court in Keki Hormasji Elavia v.The  Union  of	India (Civil Application No.  1296  of	1953decided on August 18, 1953) referred to in a Compilation of.Judgments  in Customs Cases, published by the Central  Boardof  Revenue,  and submitted that customs  duty	was  payableunder  s. 88 of the Sea Customs Act, as in the Bombay  case.The facts of the Bombay case were entirely different; it wasfound there that the goods, which were toilet and  perfumerygoods, had been smuggled through the port of Kantiajal	nearSurat	without	  payment   of	any  duty   and	  in   thosecircumstances, it was held that s. 88 applied.	In the	casebefore	us  there is no finding by what means the  gold	 wassmuggled-by sea or landand it is difficult to see how s. 88,which relates to goods not cleared or warehoused within fourmonths	after  entry of vessel, can be of any  help  in	 thepresent Case.We are, therefore, of the view that the Collector of Customshad  no	 jurisdiction to impose any of	the  two  conditionsmentioned  above-.  What then is the result?  On  behalf  ofthe  appellant	it has been argued that the  order  being  acomposite  and	integrated order, it is not  severable;	 andsecondly, it is contended that on an application for a	writof certiorari, the superior Court must quash the whole orderwhen  it  is found to be bad and in excess  of	jurisdictioneven as to a part thereof The question of severability	doesnot  present any great difficulty.  It has been the  subjectof  consideration in more than one decision of	this  Court,and  in the recent decision in R. M. D.	 Chamarbaugwalla  v.Union  of  India (1) the principles governing it  have	beensummarised.  Applying those principles we find no difficultyin  holding  that  the invalid	conditions  imposed  by	 theCollector are not so inextricably mixed up that they  cannotbe  separated from the valid order of confiscation and	finein  lieu thereof; there is also no doubt that the  Collectorwould have passed the order of confiscation and fine in lieuthereof on his finding(1)[1957] S.C.R. 930.841that  the gold was smuggled gold, even if he  realised	thatthe  conditions	 he was imposing were invalid;	it  is	alsoclear  that  the  conditions do not form part  of  a  singlescheme	which  can be operative only as	 a  whole.   Learnedcounsel for the appellant has referred us to the sixth	ruleenunciated  in	Chamarbaugwalla's decision (supra)  and	 hascontended that if the invalid conditions are expunged,	whatremains	 of  the impugned order cannot be  enforced  withoutmaking	an alteration or modification as to the	 time  limitfixed, and therefore the whole order must be struck down  asvoid.  We are unable to agree.	The sixth rule aforesaid  isbased  on the ground that the Court cannot make	 alterationsor  modifications  in  order to enforce what  remains  of  astatute	 after	expunging  the invalid	portions  thereof  ;otherwise  it will amount to judicial legislation.  No	suchconsideration  arises  in the case before us.  There  is  nolegal difficulty in enforcing the rest of the impugned orderafter  separating the invalid conditions therefrom;  on	 thepassing	 of  the order of confiscation, the  gold  vests  inGovernment  and	 s. 183 does not make it obligatory  on	 theCollector  to  fix a time limit for payment of the  fine  inlieu  of confiscation.	It is really for the benefit of	 theowner that a time is fixed for payment of the fine.  Even ifthe time limit is altered, by no stretch of imagination	 canit be said that such alteration amounts to judicial legisla-tion.  For these reasons we agree with the Division Bench ofthe  High Court that the invalid conditions imposed  by	 theCollector  in this case are severable from the rest  of	 theimpugned order.Learned	 counsel has relied on the decision in The  King  v.Willesden  Justices,  Ex parte Utley(1) for  his  contentionthat  the High Court has no power, on certiorari,  to  amendthe  impugned order by striking out the invalid	 conditions;nor  has  this	Court,	on an appeal from  an  order  on  anapplication for the issue of a writ of certiorari, any powerhigher	than that of the High Court.  He has contended	thatthe  essence  of  the  remedy  of  certiorari  is  that	  itnecessarily  involves revising the decision of the  inferiorcourt to which it is(1)[1948] 1 K. B. 397.842directed  in one of three ways: (a) by quashing it ; (b)  byremoving  the  case and trying it in a	court  of  competentjurisdiction  ;	 or  (c)  by  causing  it  to  be   reheard.According to English precedents, so argues learned  counsel,certiorari  involves  an examination of a  decision  of	 theCourt  to which it is addressed to see " What of  right	 andaccording to the law and custom of England we shall see	 fitto  be done " (see Short and Mellor's Practice of the  CrownOffice, 2nd Edn. pp. 504-505).	We do not think that we	 arecalled upon in this case to go into the early history of theprerogative writ of certiorari in England or even to decide.what  is  the extent of the power of the High  Court,  on  aprayer	for the issue of a writ in the nature of a, writ  ofcertiorari,  under  Art. 226 of the  Constitution.   Broadlyspeaking, it is true that an essential feature of a writ  ofcertiorari is that the control which is exercised through itover  judicial or quasi-judicial tribunals or bodies is	 notin  an	appellate  but	supervisory  capacity.	 This  Courtobserved in T. C. Basappa v. T. Nagappaand Another (1), at p. 257-"  In granting a writ of certiorari the superior Court	doesnot  exercise the powers of an appellate Tribunal.  It	doesnot   review  or  reweigh  the	evidence  upon	 which	 thedetermination of the inferior Tribunal purports to be based.It  demolishes	the order which it considers to	 be  withoutjurisdiction  or palpably erroneous but does not  substituteits  own  views	 for those of the  inferior  Tribunal.	 Theoffending  order or proceeding so to say is put out  of	 theway as one which should not be used to the detriment of anyperson."In the same decision, it was also observed:"  In view of the express provisions in our Constitution  weneed  not  now	look  back  to	the  early  history  or	 theprocedural technicalities of these writs in English law, norfeel  oppressed	 by  any difference  or	 change	 of  opinionexpressed  in  particular cases by English Judges.   We	 canmake an order or issue a writ in the nature of certiorari inall appropriate cases and in appropriate manner, so long  aswe keep(1)[1955] 1 S.C.R- 250.843to  the broad and fundamental principles that  regulate	 theexercise  of  jurisdiction in the matter  of  granting	suchwrits in English law."In  King  v. Willesden Justices (supra)	 the  applicant	 wasconvicted and fined pound 15 for failure to stop his vehicleon  being  so  required by a police  constable	in  uniform,contrary  to the Road Traffic Act, 1930, s. 20,	 sub-section3.  The	 ground	 for the application was  that	the  maximumpenalty	 prescribed by s. 20, subsection 3, for the  offencein  question  was a fine of pound 5 and that  therefore	 thepenalty	 of pound 15 imposed by the justices was bad in	 lawand  in	 excess of their jurisdiction.	Lord Goddard  C.  J.said:" Our attention has been called to several cases,  includingReg.  v. Stade, (1895) 64 L. J. (M.  C.) 232, Reg.  v.	Kay,(1873) L. R. 8 Q. B. 324, and Reg. v. Cridland, (1857) 7  E.& B. 853, but having considered them all, my opinion remainsas it was at the outset, that if a sentence be imposed whichis  not	 authorised  by law for the offence  for  which	 thedefendant is convicted, that makes the conviction bad on itsface  and being a bad conviction, it can be brought up	hereto be quashed, and when so brought up, must be quashed,	 forthis  court  has no power, and never has had any  power,  oncertiorari, to amend the conviction."It  is	worthy of note that the decision  proceeded  on	 thefooting	 that the man had a penalty imposed upon  him  whichthe  law  did  not permit him to suffer and  that  made	 theconviction bad; and the conviction being bad, the  applicantwas entitled to his order of certiorari.But  we think that there is a more convincing answer to	 thecontention urged on behalf of the appellant.  In an  earlierpart of this judgment. we have quoted in extenso the prayerswhich  the  appellant had made in its petition in  the	HighCourt.	The appellant did not confine itself to asking for awrit of certiorari only, but asked for a mandamus  requiringrespondents  I	to 3 to forbear from giving  effect  to	 theorders	of seizure, detention and confiscation of  the	goldand  further  requiring them to return the  gold,  and	alsoasked for a writ of prohibition restraining respondents8441  to 3 from taking further steps in pursuance of the  orderof confiscation.  These prayers were neither unnecessary nora inere surplusage; they were appropriate for the purpose ofavoiding the conditions which the Collector had imposed	 forrelease	 of  the  gold.	  It  is  well	settled	 that  whereproceedings  in	 an inferior court or  tribunal	 are  partlywithin and partly without its jurisdiction, prohibition willlie  against doing what is in excess of	 jurisdiction.	(seeHalsbury's Laws of England, 3rd Edn. vol. 11, para. 216,  p.116).	In  the recent decision in Dalmia's case,  Shri	 RamKrishna	  Dalmia  V.  Shri  Justice  S.	 R.  Tendolkar	 andothers(1),  this  Court held a part of a  notification	madeunder s. 3 of the Commission of Enquiry Act (LX of 1952)  tobe  bad, and holding that it was severable from the rest  ofthe  notification,  deleted  it and held that  rest  of	 thenotification to be good.Therefore,  we do not see any insuperable difficulty in	 thepresent	 case  in  prohibiting	respondents  I	to  3	fromenforcing the two invalid conditions which the Collector  ofCustoms	 had imposed for release of the gold on	 payment  ofthe fine in lieu of confiscation, and the time limit of fourmonths fixed by the Collector must accordingly run from	 thedate of this order.The  only  other points that require consideration  are	 thepoints	urged on behalf of the two banks, respondents 4	 and5. These respondents say that though the general property inthe  goods  pledged  remained with the	pledgor,  a  specialproperty  passed  to the pledgee in order that he  might  beable to sell the pledge if and when his right to sell arose.They  complain that they have been deprived of this  specialproperty  by  reason  of the  proceeding  resulting  in	 theimpugned-  order, adopted under the Sea Customs Act  by	 theCollector  of  Customs;	 they contend that  their  right  isguaranteed under Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution, and	 theprovisions  of	the Sea Customs Act in so far as  they	takeaway  the pledgee's right without providing for a notice  tothe  pledgee  or  an  option to pay  the  fine	in  lieu  ofconfiscation   are  not	 reasonable  restrictions   in	 theinterests of the general(1)[1959] S.C.R. 279.845public	within the meaning of el. (5) of the  said  Article.Our  attention has been drawn to s. 19A of the	Sea  CustomsAct   which   enables  the  Central   Government   to	makeregulations,  either  general  or  special,  respecting	 thedetention and confiscation of goods the importation of whichis  prohibited, and the conditions, if any, to be  fulfilledbefore	 such  detention  and  confiscation,  and  also	  tosubsection (1) thereof under which the Chief Customs Officermay  require  the regulations to be complied  with  and	 maysatisfy	 himself in accordance with those  regulations	thatthe goods are such as are prohibited to be imported.  It  ispointed	 out that no regulations have yet been made, and  inthe absence of any regulations the Customs officers have  anuncontrolled  and unguided power in the matter of  detentionand confiscation of goods.So far as the Nationale Handels Bank N. V., respondent 4, isconcerned,  it has no right under Art. 19.  Assuming that  acompany	 can  be a citizen as defined in  the  Constitution,respondent  4 admittedly is a foreign Company possessing  norights of a citizen of this country.  On the same assumptionthe Bharat Bank Ltd., respondent 5, being an Indian  Companymay  have the rights of a citizen under Art. 19; but in	 thecircumstances  which  we shall presently state,	 we  do	 notthink  that  its  complaint  as	 to  the  infraction  of   afundamental  right  can	 be raised  at	this  stage.   Apartaltogether   from  the	considerations	which  the   learnedSolicitor-General  has	pressed	 (as to	 which	it  is	-un-necessary for us to express any final opinion), namely,	 (1)that  a pledgee cannot have a right higher than that of	 thepleader,  (ii)	that the pledgor does not cease	 to  be	 theowner  by reason of the pledge, and (iii) that in an  actionin  rem the order operators directly upon the status of	 theproperty and, as in this case, vests the property absolutelyin  Government, there are certain other circumstances  whichmilitate against the claim now put forward by respondent  5.The  order  of the Collector shows that all  throughout	 theadjudication  proceedings  respondent 5 was  represented  bycounsel	 before	 the Collector.	 The  Collector	 passed	 hisorder oil May 14, 1952, and a copy was forwarded846to  respondent 5. The respondent took no steps	against	 theorder,	but was content with its position as  respondent  tothe  application  which the present appellant filed  in	 theHigh  Court.  It is also to be noticed that the	 Collector'sorder  shows that he was not fully satisfied with the  storyof  the	 appellant that the gold had been pledged  with	 theBanks  in the manner suggested.	 So far as the	transactionswith the Bharat Bank are concerned, he said:"  The Majud Bahi (stock book) of the firm showed a  closingbalance	 of gold weighing tolas 2,457-6-0 as lying with	 theBharat	Bank  Ltd.,  on 17th  November,	 1950,	whereas	 theclosing	 balance  on  that  date  according  to	 the  Bank'sstatement  was tolas 4,651-14-0.  The firm's  representativegave  reasons  for  this difference which  was	mainly	thatinstructions  were  given  to the Bharat Bank  on  the	17thNovember,  1950	 to send gold weighing	tolas  2,236-7-0  toSewadin	 Bansilal of Bombay but the actual delivery of	thisgold  to this person at-Bombay did not take place until	 the22nd  November 1950.  The Auditors, however,  observed	thatthey  had  not	seen any correspondence	 with  the  Bank  insupport	 of  the  above	 information  which  they   receivedverbally."In  the	 High  Court  when  the	 case  was  before  Bose  J.respondent  5  challenged  the order  of  the  Collector  onseveral	 points	 including  the alleged	 infraction  of	 hisfundamental   right.   This  objection	was  not,   however,accepted,  and Bose J. allowed the writ application  on	 twoother  grounds	which  we have mentioned  earlier.   In	 theappeal before the Division Bench, respondent 5 again  reliedon  Art.  19 (1) (f ), and the Division Bench  affirmed	 thefinding	 of  Bose  J. that as the Sea Customs  Act  did	 notdirectly  legislate in respect of the freedom guaranteed  byArt.  19 (1) (f ), that Article had no application.   Again,respondent  No.	 5 took no steps against  the  judgment	 andorder  of the Division Bench dated July 3,  1953-a  judgmentand  order which it now challenges as incorrect.  All  alongthe  line,  it	preferred to sail  with	 the  appellant	 butfiguring  as  a respondent only; it was	 the  appellant	 whomoved the High Court for a certificate, obtained such847certificate   and  brought  this  appeal  to   this   Court.Respondent  5 took no action against the judgment and  orderof  which it now complains.  In these circumstances,  we  donot  think that respondent 5 can now be allowed to  complainof  a  violation of its fundamental right,  apart  from	 andindependently of the appellant.The result, therefore, is as follows.  The impugned order isgood  as to the confiscation of the gold and the payment  offine  in  lieu	thereof.   The	Collector  of  Customs	 hadjurisdiction to make that order on his finding that the goldwas  smuggled  gold.  He, however, had	no  jurisdiction  toimpose	the  other two conditions which he imposed  for	 therelease	 of the gold.  Though the High Court held on  appealthat the invalid conditions were severable from the rest  ofthe order, it did not give any appropriate direction regard-ing those conditions as it should have done, but allowed theappeal and dismissed the writ application in too.  We  thinkthat  the  appropriate	order to pass in  this	case  is  todismiss the writ application in so far as it seeks to  quashthe  impugned  order  of confiscation of the  gold  and	 thepayment	 of fine in lieu thereof, and to allow it in so	 faras it wants a direction restraining respondents 1 to 3	fromenforcing   the	 two  invalid  conditions  imposed  by	 theCollector   of	 Customs,  which  the	Collector   had	  nojurisdiction to impose.	 The time limit of four months givenby the Collector will accordingly run from the date of	thisorder.The appeal is accordingly allowed to the very limited extentindicated  above  but dismissed as to the rest, and  in	 thecircumstances  of  this case, particularly in  view  of	 theinvalid conditions imposed by the Collector, we direct	thatthe parties must bear their own costs of the hearing in thisCourt.Appeal allowed in part.IQ$848