PETITIONER:J.K. IRON AND STEEL CO.	 LTD., KANPUR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE IRON AND STEEL MAZDOOR UNION, KANPUR(with connected appeDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/12/1955BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANAIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR  231		  1955 SCR  (2)1315ACT:  Industrial  Disputes Act, 1947, (Act XIV of 1947),  ss.  7and  11--  Adjudicator--Scope and  authority  of--DemocraticConstitution--Essentials  thereof--Rule	 of   Law-Benevolentdespotism--Foreign thereto.HEADNOTE:   Held,  that	adjudication  by an  adjudicator  under	 theIndustrial Disputes Act does not mean adjudication accordingto  the	 strict	 law  of master	 and  servant  and  that  anadjudicator's	award	may  contain  provisions   for	 thesettlement of a dispute which no court could order if it wasbound  by ordinary law.	 Thus the scope of  an	adjudicationunder the Industrial Disputes Act is much wider than that ofan arbitrator making an award.	Industrial Tribunals are notfettered   by  such  limitations  and  an  adjudicator	 hasjurisdiction  to  investigate disputes about  discharge	 anddismissal and where necessary, to direct reinstatement.Nevertheless, wide as their powers are, these Tribunals	 arenot absolute and there are limitations to the ambit of theirauthority.   Though they are not courts in the strict  senseof the term, they have to discharge quasi judicial functionsand  as such are subject to the overriding  jurisdiction  ofthe Supreme Court under Art. 136 of the Constitution.  Theirpowers	are derived from the statute that creates  them	 andthey have to function within the limits imposed there and toact  according to its provisions.  Those  provisions  investthem with many of the trappings" of a court and deprive themof arbitrary or absolute discretion and power.Benevolent   despotism	 is   foreign	to   a	  democraticConstitution.  When the Constitution of India converted thiscountry	 into a sovereign, democratic, republic, it did	 notinvest it with the mere trappings of democracy but  investedit,  with  the real thing, the true kernel of which  is	 theultimate authority of the courts to restrain all exercise ofabsolute  and arbitrary power not only by the executive	 andby   officials	and  lesser  tribunals	but  also   by	 thelegislatures   and   even   by	 Parliament   itself.	 TheConstitution  established a "Rule of Law" in this  land	 andthat  carries with it restraints and restrictions  that	 areforeign to despotic power.The courts, however, must always exercise caution and shouldnot substitute their own judgment and discretion for that ofsuch tribunals.1661316   In  view of ss. 7 and 11 of the Industrial Disputes	Act,1947 and U.P. State Industrial Tribunal Standing Orders 1951these Tribunals, though not bound by all the  technicalitiesof Civil Courts must nevertheless follow the general patternof the Civil Courts in the matter of taking the pleadings ofthe parties in writing and the drawing up of issues.  It  isnot open to the Tribunals to disregard the pleadings and  toreach any conclusion that they think are just and proper.   The	Supreme	 Court	remitted  the  case  to	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  for a rehearing of the appeals  as	 theAdjudicator  and the Labour Appellate Tribunal	had  adoptedthe  attitude  of  benevolent despots and  had	based  theirconclusion on irrelevant considerations and ignored the realquestions that arose for decision and the issues that  aroseout of the pleadings of the parties.   Western   India  Automobile	Association  v.	  IndustrialTribunal,  Bombay ([1949] F.C.R. 321, 345), State of  Madrasv. C. P. Sarathy, ([1953] S.C.R. 334, 348), Bharat Bank Ltd.v. Employees of Bharat Bank Ltd., ([1950] S.C.R. 459,  497),Muir Mills Co. v.  Suti Mills Mazdoor Union, Kanpur  ([1955]1 S.C.R. 991, 1001), referred to.JUDGMENT:  CIVIL	 APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos.  22	 and22-A and 301 of 1955. Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order  datedthe 4th July 1952 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India,Lucknow	 in Appeals Nos. 391 and 392 of 1951 arising out  ofthe Award dated the 1st November 1951 of the Adjudicator andAdditional Regional Conciliation Officer, Kanpur in Case No.53 of 1951.  G.S. Pathak, (Rameshwar Nath and Rajinder Narain), for theappellants in all the appeals.  G. C. Mathur, for the respondent in C. A. Nos. 22 and 22-Aand respondent No. 4 in C. A. No. 301 of 1955.   K.	  B. Asthana and C. P. Lal, for the respondent No. 3in C. A. No. 301 of 1955.  1955.	  December  23.	  The  Judgment	 of  the  Court	 wasdelivered by  BOSE	J.-We are concerned here with three  appeals.	Theyarise  out  of	a dispute between the J.K.  Iron  and  SteelCompany	 Limited and the Iron and Steel Mazdoor	 Union.	  Wewill call them the1317Company	 and the Mazdoor Union respectively.  The facts	 areas follows. The  Company had its factory and other works at  Kanpur  inUttar Pradesh.	On 10-4-1948 the Ministry of Commerce in theGovernment  of India ordered the Company to shift  its	JuteBaling Hoops factory from Kanpur to Calcutta.  As  no land was available in Calcutta no effect  could  begiven to this order till the year 1950-51.  On 19-3-1951 theIron  and Steel Controller ordered the Company to  stop	 therolling	 of  jute baling hoops at  once.   Accordingly,	 theproduction of these hoops was stopped from that date.  At the same time there was scarcity of scrap iron and	 theCompany's  case is that forced it to reduce the	 working  ofits furnace from three shifts a day to one.  The Company states that because of these two causes it wasobliged	 to  retrench its staff.  Therefore, it	 issued	 thefollowing- notice dated 15-5-1951 to 128 of its workers:  "Consequent  to transfer of the Rolling Mill	to  Calcuttaand  want  of  scrap  to Furnace  Department  in  full,	 theservices  of the persons as per list attached are  dispensedwith from today.  Their wages and other dues in full settlement will be paidafter 2 P.m."  Twenty five of the 128 accepted their wages and other duesin  full  settlement but the remaining 103  refused.   Theircause  was accordingly espoused by the Mazdoor	Union  whichmade an application to the Regional Conciliation Officer  atKanpur	on 16-5-1951 complaining that the  retrenchment	 wasillegal and asking that the workmen be reinstated with	fullpayment of their wages for the period they were out of work.   This was forwarded to the Government of Uttar Pradesh andon  28-6-1951  the  Governor  of  that	State  referred	 thefollowing  issue  to the Regional  Conciliation	 Officer  atKanpur	under  sections 3, 4 and 8 of  the  U.P.  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947 for adjudication:"Whether the retrenchment of the workmen1318given  in  the Annexure by Messrs J. K. Iron and  Steel	 Co.Ltd' Kanpur, is unjustified?  If so, to what relief are	 theworkmen entitled?"  The  parties filed their written statements  on  14-7-1951and  the  Company  filed  a  rejoinder	on  20-7-1951.	 TheAdjudicator  thereupon took evidence, oral and	documentary,and gave his award on 1-11- 1951.  But before that was	donethe  case  of  one  of the workmen  (Kapil  Deo	 Singh)	 waswithdrawn and that left 102 for him to deal with.  The  Adjudicator reached the following  conclusions.	 TheMazdoor Union had contended that the retrenchment was not ingood faith.  The Adjudicator held that it was and that therewas  neither harassment nor victimisation.  So also  on	 thequestion about the shortage of scrap he held that there	 wasa  shortage but that it was only temporary and that  it	 wasnot  likely  to last for more than 8 or 9 months.   He	thenreferred  to the Standing Orders and said that	the  Companywas not entitled to resort to retrenchment except as a	lastresort	and  that in the circumstances of the  present	casethese  workmen	should (1) have been offered the  option  ofemployment in the new set up at Calcutta; and (2) those thatdid  not  want	it should have been  laid  off	in  rotationinstead	 of being retrenched.  He accordingly  ordered	thatshould	 be  done  and	drew  up  a  graduated	 scale	 ,ofcompensation.  We observe in passing that the expression used  throughouthas  been "played off".	 The reason for that is that is	 thephrase	used in the Standing Orders and in the copy  of	 theAct  and Model Standing Orders reproduced by the U.  P.	 De-partment of Labour in its Annual Review of Activities.	 Butit seems to us that was due to printer's error at some stagewhich  has  been repeated in various  places.	The  correctexpression  is "lay off".  That is the expression  used	 anddefined	 in the Act.  The Standing Orders should  have	usedthe same phrase.  Apart from the definition in the Act, "layoff " is a well-known industrial term meaning, according  tothe Oxford Dictionary, "a period during which1319a  workman  is	temporarily discharged".  We  will  use	 thecorrect expression in this judgment.  Both sides appealed to the Labour Appellate Tribunal.	 Thedecision,  there  was as follows.  The Tribunal	 upheld	 thefinding that there was in fact a shortage of scrap iron	 andalso agreed with the Adjudicator that was only likely to  betemporary.   Then  it held, apparently as a matter  of	law,that  under  the Standing Orders it is	not  permissible  toretrench workmen and deprive them of their maintenance	whenthere is only a temporary shortage of material, whatever theduration of the shortage; all that the employer can do in  acase like that is to lay them off.  The  Tribunal also upheld the finding that the  Hoop	Millwas in the course of transfer to Calcutta consequent on	 theorders	of Government, but they held that there was  nothingon the record to show which of the 105 persons (it should be102)  whose cases they were considering	 were  "specificallyengaged	 in the Hoop Mills and had become surplus by  reasonof the transfer to Calcutta".  This	is  one of the findings attacked before	 us  by	 theCompany	 on  the  ground that the  Tribunal  has  failed  torealize that the Company's operations must be considered  asa  whole  and  that because of the  interdependence  of	 itsvarious departments a closure of one section, coupled with ashortage of materials in another, is bound to affect its allround  working	and therefore the question  of	retrenchmentcannot	be looked at from the narrow point of view  of	onlyone department but must be viewed in its all round  setting.We will deal with this later.Another of the Tribunal's findings on the "transfer"  aspectof  the	 case was that a cut in profits is not in  itself  agood ground for retrenchment.  It held that retrenchment canonly  be made when there is a total closure of the mill	 "orwhen for any such other reason the workmen become surplus".  The  final  conclusion  of  the  Tribunal  was  that	 theretrenchment was "wholly unjustified".	Accordingly, it	 setaside the retrenchments and held that the1320affected  workmen will be deemed to be "still  in  service".and  directed  that they be reinstated.	 The appeal  of	 theMazdoor	 Union	was partly allowed and that of	the  Companydismissed.  This impelled the Company. to do the following things:(1)to file a writ petition in the Allahabad High Court on 4-8-1952.	  This was dismissed by that Court on  9-4-1953	 andCivil  Appeal  No. 301 of 1955 is the appeal to	 us  againstthat order;(2)to  file two appeals to this Court against the  order  ofthe  Labour  Appellate Tribunal.  These	 appeals  are  CivilAppeal No. 22 of 1955 and Civil Appeal No. 22-A of 1955.This judgment covers all three appeals.Mr. G. C. Mathur, who appeared for the Mazdoor Union, raiseda preliminary objection against the Company's appeals  basedon  the following facts.  The Company had appealed  to	thisCourt  against the Labour Appellate Tribunal's	decision  on26-8-1952.   The petition was summarily dismissed  on  10-9-1952.	Counsel contended that barred the  present  appeals:Civil  Appeal 22-A of 1955 because it is an  appeal  againstthe  very order that is now under appeal, and  Civil  Appeal301  of 1955 on the basis of res judicata because it  raisesthe  same points as were raised in the petition for  specialleave which was dismissed.  We  rejected this objection because the previous  petitionfor  appeal  does not appear to have been dismissed  on	 themerits	but on two technical grounds.  It is true the  orderof dismissal is general but the office note states (1)	thatno certified copy of the decision appealed against was filedthough Order 13, rule 4, of the Rules of the Supreme  Court,requires  that	and  (2)  that the  reliefs  sought  in	 thepetition  for special leave and in the writ petition  beforethe High Court are the same.  It is evident that formed	 thebasis  of  the order of dismissal especially as	 it  is	 theusual  practice	 not  to entertain an  appeal  here  when  asimilar matter is pending in the High Court,1321Before we come to the merits it will be necessary to set outthe grounds on which the High Court proceeded.	The  learnedJudges	were  concerned with a writ for	 certiorari  and  sonaturally   focussed   their  attention	 on   questions	  ofjurisdiction  rather  than on the merits.   They  consideredthat  the Adjudicator' was free to take	 into  considerationall  matters bearing on the question of retrenchment and  toconsider  whether it was "absolutely necessary" to  retrenchthe  workmen.	They  looked at	 Standing  Order  16(a)	 anddecided	 that the Adjudicator had jurisdiction to  determinethe  scope  and meaning of this Order and that	he  and	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal were competent to hold that  theseorders meant that the Company was not entitled to take	whatthe learned Judges called the "extreme step of retrenchment"so long as it was possible for it to "lay off " the workmen. That at once raises questions about the scope and authorityof  an adjudicator under the Industrial Disputes  Act.	 Butthat,  we  feel is now settled by  authority.	The  FederalCourt  held  in	 Western  India	 Automobile  Association  v.Industrial  Tribunal, Bombay(1) that adjudication  does	 notmean adjudication according to the strict law of master	 andservant	 and  held that an adjudicator's award	may  containprovisions for settlement of a dispute which no Court  couldorder  if  it  was bound by ordinary law.   They  held	thatIndustrial  Tribunals are not fettered by these	 limitationsand  held  further that an adjudicator has  jurisdiction  toinvestigate  disputes  about discharge	and  dismissal	and,where necessary, to direct reinstatement.That  decision was followed with approval by this  Court  inState of Madras v. C. P. Sarathy(2) and it was again pointedout  that the scope of an adjudication under the  IndustrialDisputes Act is much wider than that of an arbitrator makingan  award.  It would be pointless to cover the same  ground;so we must take that now as settled law.All the same, wide as their powers are, these Tri-(1) [1949] F.C.R 321, 345.  (2) [1953] S.C.R. 334, 348,1322bunals	are  not absolute and there are limitations  to	 theambit of their authority.  In Bharat Bank Ltd. v.  Employeesof  Bharat Bank Ltd.(1) this Court held by a  majority	thatthough these Tribunals are not Courts in the strict sense ofthe term they have to discharge quasi judicial functions andas  such are subject to the overriding Jurisdiction of	thisCourt  under article 136 of the Constitution.  Their  powersare derived from the statute that creates them and they haveto  function  within  the limits imposed there	and  to	 actaccording  to its provisions.  Those provisions invest	themwith many of the "trappings" of a court and deprive them  ofarbitrary  or absolute discretion and power.  There  is,  inour opinion, an even deeper reason which is hinted at in thejudgment of Mahajan J. (as he then was) at page 500 where hesays  that "benevolent despotism is foreign to a  democraticConstitution".	 That, in our opinion, is the heart  of	 thematter.	  When	the  Constitution of  India  converted	thiscountry into a great sovereign, democratic, republic, it didnot invest it with the mere trappings of democracy and leaveit  with merely its outward forms of behaviour but  investedit  with  the real thing, the true kernel of  which  is	 theultimate authority of the Courts to restrain all exercise ofabsolute and arbitrary power, not only by the executive	 andby   officials	and  lesser  tribunals	but  also   by	 thelegislatures   and   even   by	 Parliament   itself.	 TheConstitution  established a "Rule of Law" in this  land	 andthat carries with it restraints and restrictionsthat are foreign to despotic power.  Despite  this,  however, the Courts must  always  exercisecaution	 and  see  that they do	 not  substitute  their	 ownjudgment and discretion for that of these Tribunals, for, asMahajan, J. said in Bharat Bank Ltd. v. Employees of  BharatBank  Ltd.(1)  the  overriding powers of  this	Court  underarticle	 136  are exceptional; and he went on to  point	 outthat-  "extraordinary  Powers  of  this  character  can  only  bejustifiably used here there has been a grave miscarriage  ofjustice or where the procedure adopted by (1) [1950] S.C.R. 459, 497.1323the Tribunal is such that it offends against all notions  oflegal procedure".Now the position in the present case is this.  The Tribunalsare directed by section 7 of the Industrial Disputes Act  toadjudicate  industrial	disputes  "in  accordance  with	 theprovisions of the Act" and section 11 directs them to follow"such  procedure as may be prescribed".	 The  procedure	 forthe  Uttar Pradesh Tribunals is laid down by the U.P.  StateIndustrial Tribunal Standing Orders, 1951.  Very broadly  itfollows the pattern of the civil Courts.  Once the referenceis  made  by  Government,  the	Tribunal  has  to  take	 thepleadings  of the parties in writing and to draw up  issues.Then   it  takes  evidence,  hears  arguments  and   finallypronounces  its "judgment" "in open Court".  It	 is  evidentfrom  this that though these tribunals are not bound by	 allthe  technicalities of civil Courts, they must	neverthelessfollow	the  same general pattern.  Now the  only  point  ofrequiring pleadings and issues is to ascertain the real dis-pute between the parties, to narrow the area of conflict andto  see just where the two sides differ.  It is not open  tothe Tribunals to fly off at a tangent and, disregarding	 thepleadings, to reach any conclusions that they think are justand proper.  What	exactly	 was the dispute in the present	 case?	 Thebroad conflict was of course about the retrenchment and	 theTribunal  was  asked to decide whether the  retrenchment  ofthese  103 persons was unjustified; but that by itself	leftthe   issue  much  too	broad,	so  it	was   necessary	  to"particularise" and that was done in the pleadings. The  Company  justified  its action  on  two  grounds:	 (1)because	 of  the shortage of scrap and (2)  because  of	 thestoppage  of work in the Hoop Department consequent  on	 theorders	of Government.	But none of the	 persons  retrenchedcame from the Hoop Department and the Company explained thatwas   because	of  the	 interdependence  of   its   variousdepartments   and,  taking  the	 retrenchments	in   groups,department  by department, it explained just  why  reductionwas effected in those particular places.  In167 1324this way, it dealt serially with the retrenchments in(1)  theScrap Department, (2) the Cast Iron Foundry,(3) the Punchingand  Pressing Department, (4) the Watch and Ward  Departmentand (5) the Clerical Department.  The  Company also made the following assertions, (1)	thatretrenchment  is  a necessary incidence of an  industry	 andthat  the  discretion  of  the	management  should  not	  beinterfered  with; (2) that it is the exclusive	function  ofthe  management to determine the size of its  working  forceand  (3) that the employer must be the sole judge as to	 howeconomically or efficiently its business is to be run.  The Mazdoor Union retorted that the retrenchments were notdone  in good faith.  It denied that there was any  shortageof  scrap  but admitted the interdependence of	the  variousdepartments  and used that fact as an argument	to  indicatethe Company's bad faith.  The Union said the very fact	thatthere  had been no retrenchment in the department  that	 wasdirectly  affected, namely the Hooping Department, and	thatthere was no retrenchment in certain allied departments thatwould have been the first to be bit, had there been any realshortage  of  scrap, showed that the reasons  given  by	 theCompany	 for the retrenchment were untrue.   In	 particular,the Union pointed out that there had been no retrenchment inthe following departments which, according to it, would havebeen  the  hardest  hit	 had there been	 any  truth  in	 theCompany's  case	 namely,  (1) the  Furnace  Department,	 (2)Rolling	 Mill  Department, (3) Workshop,  (4)  Painting	 andBundling,  (5) Works and Maintenance.  Then, as regards	 theFoundry Department and the Scrap Department where there	 badbeen  retrenchments, the Union said that  these	 departmentsbad sub-sections and yet there were no retrenchments in	 thesub-sections  that  would  have been hit  if  the  Company'sallegations were true.  The Union gave no reply to the Company's assertions  aboutits  right  to retrench in the absence of  bad	faith-,	 itsright to determine the size of its work-1325ing  force  and	 its  right to	judge  of  the	economy	 andefficiency of its business.  The  Company	filed a written rejoinder and  explained  indetail	why  there had been no retrenchments in	 the  placeswhere, according to the Union, there should have been on thefacts  alleged by the Company and it again explained why  ithad  retrenched workers in the departments which,  accordingto  the	 Union, ought to have been the	hardest	 hit.	Thisexplanation  again  brought out the interdependence  of	 thevarious departments.  Instead  of drawing up issues, as it is required to do  byStanding  Order 22 of 1951, and determining just  where	 theparties	 disagreed,  the Adjudicator at	 once  proceeded  torecord	evidence and entered upon a rambling  enquiry  whichembraced questions which had not been raised at all.  On theonly point on which the parties were really at issue, namelythe  good  faith  of the management, the  findings  were  infavour of the Company.	So also the Adjudicator accepted theCompany's assertion about its right to determine the size ofits labour force and to effect retrenchment where  necessarysubject	 only  to the proviso which the	 Adjudicator  added,namely that this must be done in good faith; and indeed	 theMazdoor	 Union	had not challenged these assertions  in	 itswritten statement.The Adjudicator said-  "It is however an accepted principle that such changes  asare  being  done  by  the management  now  form	 a  part  ofmanagerial  discretion and cannot be interfered with  unlessit  is coloured with the element of victimisation or  unfairlabour practice".   But	despite	 this, and despite his findings	 about	goodfaith,	the Adjudicator considered that, in spite of it	 all"the  right of the workmen has to be safeguarded to  certainextent".  What	is left of the right if the "accepted principle"  bewhat  he says it is-and if there is no victimisation or	 badfaith,	he did not proceed to explain.	If the principle  heenunciated and accepted is sound, then the only rights	theyhave are to complain of1326bad  faith,  victimisation and so forth.   However,  feelingunder a compulsion to safeguard these unexplained rights  hehad  recourse to Standing Order 16(a) and  ignored  StandingOrders 19 and 20.  The  "accepted principle" to which the Adjudicator  refersin  the passage quoted above is implicit in Standing  Orders19(a) and 20(a).  They deal with the termination of  serviceby  an	industrial  establishment and  prescribe  a  certainquantum of notice in writing, and then comes this  importantproviso in Standing Order 19 (a) -"Provided that if a permanent workman feels that he has beendischarged for reasons not connected with his employment  orthat  the  reason of discharge communicated to	him  is	 notgenuine,  he may make an appeal to the Labour  Commissioner.The  decision  of  the	Labour	Commissioner................shall be binding on both the parties".  Reading  the body of Standing Order 19 (a) along with	 theproviso	 in  the light of the "accepted	 principle",  it  isevident	 that  the  only right the  workman  has,  when	 hisservices are lawfully terminated after service of due noticeand so forth, is to question the order on only two grounds-(1)that	 he  has been discharged for reasons  not  connectedwith his employment, and(2)that	 the reason of discharge communicated to him is	 notgenuine.   There  is  nothing in these Standing Orders	to  indicatethat  retrenchment is a measure of last resort and  that  anemployer  must	continue  to lay  off  his  workmen  howeveruneconomical that may be to the business; still less that hemust lay them off in rotation and thus affect other  workmenwho  would  not	 be  affected  by  a  legitimate  order	  ofretrenchment.	That  cuts  at the  root  of  the  "acceptedprinciple".   In  any  event,  the	 ground	 on  which  the	 adjudicatorproceeded  was not a matter in dispute between	the  partiesbecause	 it was not raised in their pleadings and could	 nothave been put in issue bad the Adjudicator troubled to	drawup  issues  as he should have done.  As	 Mahajan,  J.  said,adjudicators and tribu-1327nals  cannot act as benevolent despots and that	 is  exactlywhat  it  comes to when an adjudicator, after  setting	out,correctly in our opinion the Company's rights, holds againstthe  Union  on the only grounds that it did raise  and	thenproceeds to give an award, not only on grounds that are	 notraised	but  on	 grounds that fly in the face  of  the	veryprinciples that he enunciated; and that only because he feltthat he was under a compulsion to "safeguard" the workmen to"a certain extent".  Both	sides appealed to the Labour Appellate Tribunal	 andthe second ground of the appeal lodged, by the Mazdoor Unionwas  "that  the award of the learned  Adjudicator  is  quitearbitrary" which, of course, is exactly what it wasAnd so also ground No. 9:  "That	  the  learned	Adjudicator  has  gone	beyond	 hisjurisdiction in awarding relief on a question not,  referredto it by Government".  That	again we feel is justified.  What was  referred	 wasthe  question  of  the	justification  for  retrenchment  ofcertain specified workmen.  What was awarded was the  layingoff of persons whose cases were not even considered, that isto  say,  when	the  Adjudicator  directed  laying  off	  inrotation,  his	order necessarily affected persons  who	 hadneither	 been  laid off nor retrenched and whose  cases	 noteven  the Union had in mind.  It is to be observed that	 theMazdoor	 Union	complains about this part of  the  order  inground No. 11 though on a different ground.  The Company also appealed against the Adjudicator's  orderand  grounds Nos. 6, 9 and 24 of their appeal  are  directedagainst	 that part of the order that deals with the lay	 offof  the workmen.  Among other reasons advanced is that	thiswill  adversely affect others who are not  retrenched.	 Theother grounds repeat what was said in the company's  writtenstatement though in different language.   The	Labour Appellate Tribunal contrasted Standing  Order15(a)  with Standing Order 16(a) but also  ignored  StandingOrders 19(a) and 20 which are the1328only  ones  that really apply to this case.  It	 upheld	 thefinding	 of  the Adjudicator that there was  a	shortage  ofscrap  but held that as the shortage was for only  6  monthsretrenchment was not justified.  In  point of fact, the Labour Appellate Tribunal is  wrongabout the six months.  It was under the impression that	 theAdjudicator  had  come	to that conclusion.   But  what	 theAdjudicator  said  was that the shortage at best was  for  aperiod	of 8 or 9 months.  The passage which  the  AppellateTribunal  quotes is not the finding of the  Adjudicator	 butthe  argument advanced on behalf of the Company.   The	fullpassage runs thus:  "Shri	 Mahalingam stated that Standing order	16(a)  whichprovides  for a lay off of a maximum period of 12 days in  amonth  contemplates  a	temporary  shortage  of	 very  shortduration.   It could not apply to shortage of raw  materialslasting for more than 6 months and hence the Company's rightto  retrench  is  not affected	by  the	 aforesaid  StandingOrder".  The	Appellate  Tribunal  quoted  the  portion  we	haveunderlined but ignored the rest of the sentence and the partthat  went before and concluded that the portion  underlinedwas a part of the Adjudicator's findings.  However,  even if we assume that the Tribunal	 would	havereached	 the  same conclusion if it had	 realised  that	 theshortage  was for as long as 8 or 9 months, the	 error	intowhich  it  has fallen is that the question  of	retrenchmentcannot be made to depend on the duration of the shortage  oreven on the fact that those retrenched will be thrown out ofemployment  but on the effect that an omission	to  retrenchwill  have on the business.  In some cases, laying off	evenfor  6	or 8 or 9 months might make  the  Company  bankrupt,therefore, if the Appellate Tribunal considered that it	 hadpower  to  stop retrenchment for reasons  other	 than  thosegiven in the proviso to Standing Order 19(a) it was bound tolook into the Company's finances and determine the  questionof justification on that basis.	 The only question  referredwas the retrenchment justified? and we find it1329impossible  to	see  how  that	can  be	 determined  withoutconsidering  the question of good faith which in turn  wouldlargely	 depend	 on  the finances of  the  Company,  on	 theadverse effect that retention would have on the business andon  whether  retention	would  mean  the  deadweight  of  anuneconomic surplus and so forth.Next,  when the Appellate Tribunal turned its  attention  tothe  transfer of the Hoop Mill to Calcutta, it	agreed	thatwould have been a good ground for retrenching those who werespecifically  engaged in the Hoop Mill but not	the  others.But  this  takes an impossibly narrow view and	ignores	 theover-all working of a business concern and the repercussionsthat  a transfer of this kind would have on other  parts  ofthe  business.	 It  totally ignores the  pleadings  of	 theparties	 and, like the adjudicator, bases its conclusion  onsome  airy view of what it considers would be a	 good  thingfor  the  workmen.   That  is  not  a  decision	 "given	  inaccordance with the Act" and is as much open to objection onthat score as the award of the Adjudicator.It is pertinent at this stage to refer to a decision of thisCourt  reported	 in  Muir Mills Co. v.	Suti  Mills  MazdoorUnion, Kanpur(1) where Bhagwati, J. delivering the  judgmentof the Court said-  "The	considerations	of social justice  imported  by	 theLabour	Appellate  Tribunal in arriving at the	decision  infavour	of  the	 respondent were  not  only  irrelevant	 butuntenable".  In  the  present  case also we are  of  opinion  that	 theAdjudicator  and the Labour Appellate Tribunal	had  adoptedthe  attitude  of benevolent despots and  have	based  theirconclusions  on irrelevant considerations and  have  ignoredthe  real questions that arose for decision and	 the  issuesthat arose out of the pleadings of the parties.  It  would not be right for us to substitute  our  judgmentand discretion for that of the Adjudicator and the Tribunal:accordingly,  as we are of opinion that the. real  questionsthat were in dispute between the (1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 991, 1001.1330parties	 were neither appreciated nor considered we have  noalternative but to remit the matter to the Labour  AppellateTribunal for a proper decision after drawing up issues	thatarise  out of the pleadingS, considering them  and  decidingthe dispute accordingly, with liberty of course to remit thecase  to the Adjudicator for a retrial or for the taking  offurther	 evidence if it is of the opinion that the  omissionto  draw  up issues and focus attention on the	points	thatseem  to  be in dispute has had the result of  shutting	 outevidence that might otherwise have been led. An agreement said to have been reached between the  partieson  7-9-1953  was placed before us towards the	end  of	 thearguments  but we have not looked at it because counsel	 forthe  Mazdoor Union said it did not cover the case  of  theseretrenched  workers.  The Company insisted that it did.	  Wewere  not prepared to investigate that dispute at that	latestage  but  we	make  it plain	that  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  will	be at liberty to consider it or	 not  as  itdeems right after hearing what both sides have to sayabout it.  The  award  and  the	decision  of  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  are  set  aside and the case is  remitted  to	 theLabour	Appellate Tribunal for a re-bearing of	the  appealsfiled before it and for a fresh decision in the light of theforegoing observations.  We  will, however, have to make some	interim	 arrangementfor  payment  of what may be termed a  sort  of	 subsistenceallowance  to  the affected workmen during the	pendency  ofthose further proceedings.  As there is no agreement betweenthe  parties  on  the subject, we leave	 it  to	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal or the Adjudicator, as the case may	 be,to make suitable orders in this respect.  There will be no order, about costs as neither party is toblame for what has happened.1331