PETITIONER:MAZAGAON DOCK LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX AND EXCESS PROFITS TAXDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/05/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  861		  1959 SCR  848ACT:Income	Tax-Non-resident cayrying on business with  residentNo profit  accruing from dealings between them-Assessment ofresident-Validity-"  Business ", meaning of -Indian  Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 Of 1922), s. 42(2).HEADNOTE:Under s. 42(2) Of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, " Where aperson	not  resident  or not  ordinarily  resident  in	 thetaxable	 territories  carried  on  business  with  a  personresident  in the taxable territories, and it appears to	 theIncome-tax  Officer  that  owing  to  the  close  connectionbetween	 such persons the course of business is so  arrangedthat  the  business  done by the resident  person  with	 theperson	not resident or not ordinarily resident produces  tothe  resident  either no profits or less than  the  ordinaryprofits	 which might be expected to arise in that  business,the  profits derived therefrom, or which may  reasonably  bedeemed	to have been derived therefrom, shall be  chargeableto  income-tax in the name of the resident person who  shallbe  deemed  to	be, for all the purposes of  this  Act,	 theassessee in respect of such income-taxThe  appellant,	 a  private  limited  company  carrying	  onbusiness  as  marine engineers and ship	 repairers  had	 itsregistered office in Bombay and was resident and  ordinarilyresident  in  India,  but  its	entire	share  capital	 wasbeneficially  owned  by	 two  non-resident  companies  whosebusiness  consisted  in	 plying ships for  hire.   Under  anagreement between them the ships plied for hire by the	non-resident  companies  were to be repaired  by  the  appellantcompany	 at  cost,  charging  no  profits.   The  Income-taxOfficer made an assessment on the appellant company under S.42(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.  It was  contendedfor the appellant (1) that S. 42(2) imposed a charge only ona  business carried on by a non-resident and that  thereforeno  tax could be imposed on the business of  the  appellant,and  (2)  that it was a condition for the levy of  a  chargeunder  that subsection that the non-resident must  carry  onbusiness  with the resident and that in the instant case  itwas  not satisfied, as all that the  non-resident  companiesdid  was only to get their ships repaired by  the  appellantcompany:Held,  (1) that the business which is the subject-matter  oftaxation under s. 42(2) Of the Indian Income-tax Act,  1922,is  that  of the resident and not of  a	 non-resident.	 Theexpression849"  derived  therefrom " in that sub-section  refers  to	 thebusiness of the resident.(2)that	 a person can be said to carry on a business  withanother	 if  the dealings between them	form  concerted	 andorganised activities of a business character.Where, as in the instant case, the nonresident companies gottheir ships repaired by the appellant, not as they might  byany  other  repairer  but under	 a  special  agreement	thatrepairs	 should be done by the appellant at cost,  the	non-resident companies must be held to have carried on  businesswith  the  appellant within the meaning of s. 42(2)  Of	 theAct,  even  though  the non-resident  companies	 might	havederived no profits from the dealings with the appellant.Narain Swadeshi Weaviing Mills v. The Commissioner of ExcessProfits Tax, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 952 and Commissioners of lnlandRevenue	 v. I corporated Council of Law Reporting, (1888)  3Tax Cas. 105, relied on.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  381  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  24, 1955, of the Bombay High Court  in  Income-TaxReference No. 52/X of 1954.N.   A. Palkhivala (with him, Jamshedji B. Kanga),S.   N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, P. L. Vohra and  RameshwarNath, for the appellant.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,G.   N.	 Joshi and R. H. Dhebar, for the  respondent.  1958.May 12.	 The Judgment of the Court wasdelivered byVENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-This is an appeal against the  judgmentof the High Court of Bombay in a reference under s. 66(1) ofthe Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, hereinafter referred to  asthe Act.The  appellant	is a private  limited  company	incorporatedunder the Indian Companies Act, and is carrying on  businessas  marine  engineers and ship	repairers.   Its  registeredoffice	is  in	Bombay and it  is  resident  and  ordinarilyresident in India.  Its entire share capital is beneficiallyowned by two British companies, the P. & 0. Steam NavigationCo. Ltd., and the British Indian Steam Navigation Co.  Ltd.,whose business850consists  in  plying  ships for hire.	Under  an  agreemententered into with the two companies aforesaid, which will bereferred  to hereinafter as the non-resident companies;	 theappellant  repairs  their  ships at  cost,  and	 charges  noprofits.   Now, the point for determination is	whether,  onthese  facts,  the appellant is chargeable to tax  under  s.42(2) of the Act.  That sub-section runs as follows:" Where a person not resident or not ordinarily resident  inthe  taxable territories carries on business with  a  personresident  in the taxable territories, and it appears to	 theIncome-tax  Officer  that  owing  to  the  close  connectionbetween	 such persons the course of business is so  arrangedthat  the  business  done by the resident  person  with	 theperson	not resident or not ordinarily resident produces  tothe  resident  either DO profits or less than  the  ordinaryprofits	 which might be expected to arise in that  business,the  profits derived therefrom, or which may  reasonably  bedeemed	to have been derived therefrom, shall be  chargeableto  income-tax in the name of the resident person who  shallbe  deemed  to	be, for all the purposes of  this  Act,	 theassessee in respect of such income tax.	 "The  Income-tax	 Officer, Bombay who dealt with	 the  mattertook the view that the appellant company had so arranged itsbusiness  with	the non-resident companies that it  did	 notproduce any profits to it, and that was because it was thosecompanies  that	 really owned its share	 capital,  and	thattherefore  the profits which it could ordinarily  have	madebut  for their close financial connection were liable to  betaxed  under  s.  42(2), and he computed  the  same  at	 Rs.6,80,000 for the account year 1943-1944, at Rs. 4,67,559 forthe  account  year  1944-1945 and at Rs.  4,68,963  for	 theaccount	 year 1945-46.	On the basis of the above  findings,orders of assessment of income-tax were made for the accountyears 1944-1945 and 1945-1946 and of excess profits tax	 forthe  account  years  1943-1944,	 1944-1945  and	  1945-1946.Against	 these five orders, the appellant preferred  appealsto the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, who by his851order  dated July 3, 1952, confirmed the same.	 Then  therewas  a	further	 appeal by the appellant  to  the  AppellateTribunal,  and	the Bench which heard the same	having	beendivided	 in  its opinion, the matters came  up	for  hearingbefore the President, who by his order dated March 19, 1954,held  that s. 42(2) was inapplicable and he accordingly	 setaside  the  orders of assessment of  income-tax	 and  excessprofits	 tax made on the appellant.  On the  application  ofthe Department, the Tribunal referred the following questionfor the opinion of the High Court of Bombay:" Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the	caseany   income  falls  to	 be  included  in  the	 appellant'sassessment under s. 42(2).  "The reference was heard by Chagla C. J. and Tendolkar J. whoby their judgment dated February 24, 1955, held that, on thefacts found, s. 42(2) was applicable and that the  appellantwas  liable to be assessed to income-tax and excess  profitstax  under  that section.  The appellant  applied  under  s.66(A)  for  leave to appeal against this  judgment  to	thiscourt,	and that application was dismissed.   The  appellantthereafter applied for and obtained leave to appeal to	thisCourt under Art. 136, and hence this appeal.It must be mentioned that on December 31, 1948, an order  ofassessment  bad	 been  made in	respect	 of  the  income-taxpayable by the appellant for the account year 1943-1944, andtherein, the profits chargeable under s. 42(2) had not	beenincluded.   But	 subsequently, the Income-tax  Officer	tookaction under s. 34 of the Act, and on May 29, 1953, made  anorder  assessing the appellant to tax for that year  on	 theprofits	 deemed to have been made by it under s. 42(2),	 andagainst	 that  order,  an  appeal  is  pending	before	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner.  That order is  not	 thesubject-matter	 of  the  present  proceedings,	 which	 areconcerned  only	 with the assessment of income-tax  for	 theaccount years 1944-1945 and 1945-1946 and of excess  profitstax  for  the account years 1943-1944, 1944-1945  and  1945-1946.Now,  the  sole point for determination in  this  appeal  iswhether	 on the facts found the appellant is  chargeable  totax under s. 42 (2) of the Act.	 Mr. Palkhivala,852learned counsel for the appellant, contends that it is	not,and urges two grounds in support of his contention: (1) thats. 42(2) imposes a charge only on a business carried on by anonresident,  and  that therefore no tax  could	 be  imposedunder that provision on the business of the appellant who isa resident; and (2) that it is a condition for the levy of acharge	under s.42 (2) that the non-resident must  carry  onbusiness with the resident, and that in the instant case  itis not satisfied.  The first ground does not appear to	havebeen  put forward in the Court below, but before us  it	 hasbeen  presented	 with  great elaboration  and  pressed	withconsiderable insistence.  The argument in support of it	 maythus  be stated: S. 42 (2) imposes a charge on profits of  abusiness, actual or notional, when the conditions  specifiedtherein	 are satisfied; but the section does not, in  terms,say who the person is whose business is liable to be  taxed,but  that  that can only be the non-resident is	 clear	fromother parts of the section.  Thus, the tax is imposed  unders.  42 (2) on profits " derived " from business, which	mustmean  profits  actually	 made therein.	 Ex  hypothesi,	 theresident  has  so  arranged his business  that	it  produceslittle	or  no	profits to him.	 If  it	 has  produced	someprofits, then they are taxable in his hands even apart	fromthis provision, and if he has made no profits, then the word"   derived  "	would  be  inapplicable	 to  his   business.Therefore,  the	 profits " derived " and taxable  under	 thesection	 can have reference only to the business of  a	non-resident.  Then again, the profits are chargeable under thissection	 in  the  name	of the	resident.   If	the  profitschargeable  under  s. 42(2) accrue from a  business  of	 theresident, he would be the person who would, even apart	fromthe  section, be liable for the tax, and in that  situation,the  expression	 " in the name of the resident	"  would  beinappropriate.	It would make sense if, in fact, the profitsaccrued in a business carried on by a person other than	 theresident,  and	the legislature sought to tax  them  in	 hishands.	 The  true intention behind the legislation,  it  issaid,  is  that the profits of the  non-resident  should  betaxed,	but  that  the tax should fall on  the	resident  byreason of his853close  connection  with the nonresident.  Support  for	thiscontention is sought in the provision in s. 42 (2) that	 theresident shall be deemed to be the assessee for all purposesof  the Act.  The word " deemed " imports, it is  argued,  alegal  fiction, and if it was the, business of the  residentthat  was  intended to be taxed, then he is,  in  fact,	 theassessee,  and it would be' inconsistent with that  positionthat he should be treated as an assessee by a legal fiction.It is also urged that sub-ss. (1) and (3) of s. 42 deal withthe  profits of a nonresident and prescribe  the  conditionsunder which and the manner in which the tax could be imposedand  collected,	 and  s. 42 (2) must  in  this	setting,  beconstrued as referring to the business of the nonresident.There  would have been considerable force in this  argument,had  there been any ambiguity or undertainty in the  wordingof  s.	42  (2)	 as to whether it is  the  business  of	 theresident  that	is  sought  to	be  taxed  or  that  of	 thenonresident.   But  that  is not so.  The  language  of	 theenactment  imposing the charge is too plain to admit of	 anydoubt.	 Now, s. 42 (2) is, it may be noted, in	 two  parts.The  first part commencing with the opening words " Where  aperson not resident " and ending with the words " which	 mayreasonably  be	deemed	to have	 been  derived	therefrom  "prescribes  the conditions on which the charge	arises.	  Itdoes  not of itself impose the charge.	That is done by	 thesecond	part,  which  provides	that  "the  profits  derivedtherefrom  or  which may reasonably be deemed to  have	beenderived	 therefrom shall be chargeable to -income-tax."	 Theword " therefrom " is very important for the purpose of	 thepresent	 discussion.  In the context, it can refer  only  tothe  business  of  the resident, and  it  is  this  businesstherefore that is the subject of the charge under s. 42	 (2)It was suggested for the appellant that the word therefrom "has reference to the arrangement between the nonresident andthe   resident,	 but  apart  from  the	fact  that  such   aconstruction would, on the grammar of it, be untenable,	 :itis impossible to conceive how an arrangement relating to theconduct of business can, as such, be the854subject-matter	of  income-tax, apart from the	business  inwhich  profits	or  gains are made.   The  language  of	 thesection	 is clear beyond all reasonable doubt as to what  itis  that is sought to be taxed under this section.  That  isonly  the  business  of the resident and  not  that  of	 thenonresident.  In this view, it is only necessary to considerwhether there is anything in the wording of the other  partsof s. 42 (2) relied on for the appellant, which precludes usfrom  giving  effect  to  the plain import  of	the  word  "therefrom ".It  is on the expression "profits derived" in  the  chargingpart  of the enactment that the appellant leans	 heavily  insupport of his position that it is the business of the	non-resident  that	is really intended to be taxed.	  But  then,those  words do not stand alone.  They are  associated	withthe  words " or which may reasonably be deemed to have	beenderived	 ",  and  this association has	its  origin  in	 thepreceding clause produces to the resident either no  profitsor less than the ordinary profits which might be expected toarise  in  that	 business ". This  clause  contemplates	 twoclasses	 of  cases, one where the business of  the  residentproduces  no  profits and the other where it  produces	lessthan  the  normal profits.  The charge is  imposed  on	boththese  classes	of  cases,  and the word  "  derived  "	 hasreference to the latter, while the words " profits which mayreasonably  be deemed to have been derived " relate  to	 theformer.	  That both these clauses relate to the business  ofthe  resident  is clear from the words " to the	 resident  "occurring  therein.  The word " derived " in s. 42 (2)	musttherefore be interpreted as referring to the business of theresident.The respondent sought further support for this conclusion inthe  words  " which may reasonably be deemed  to  have	beenderived"  in s. 42(2), and contended that those words  couldapply  only to a business which does not yield profits,	 andthat will fit in, in the context, only with the business  ofthe resident and not of the non-resident.  The answer of theappellant  to this contention is that the words in  questionshould be construed as meaning not notional profits but suchproportion of the actual profits of the nonresident as855could  reasonably be apportioned to the business  in  India.Reliance was placed in support of this contention on Rr.  33and  34	 of  the Indian Income-tax  Rules,  1922.   Rule  33provides  for  the determination of the profits	 of  a	non-resident  in cases falling within s. 42(1), and one  of	 themodes prescribed for such determination is to fix an  amountwhich bears the' same proportion to the total profits of thenon-resident  as  the  Indian receipts	bear  to  the  totalreceipts  in the business.  Rule 34 then provides that	"theprofits	 derived from any business carried on in the  mannerreferred to in s. 42 (2) may be determined for the  purposesof assessment to income-tax according to the preceding	rule".  Now,  the  argument	 of  Mr.  Palkhivala  is  that	 theinterpretation	 put  on  s.  42  (2)  by  the	 rule-makingauthorities  as	 manifest  in R. 34  is	 that  the  businesschargeable under s. 42 (2) is that of the non-resident,	 andthat the words " which may reasonably be deemed to have beenderived	 therefrom " had reference to the  apportionment  ofthe  Indian, out of the total profits.	We see no  force  inthis  contention.  There is nothing in R. 34 to justify	 theassumption  that  the  rule-making  authorities	  consideredeither	that  s. 42 (2) applied to the business	 of  a	non-resident or that the words " which may reasonably be  deemedto have been derived therefrom " meant apportionment of	 theIndian out of the world profits of the non-resi. dent.	 Andeven  if  those.  be the assumptions on which  the  Rule  isbased, that can have no effect on the true interpretation ofs. 42 (2).  And whatever doubts one migt have had as to	 themeaning	 to  be given to the words "  derived  therefrom  orwhich  may  reasonably	be  deemed  to	have  been.  derivedtherefrom " if they had to be construed in isolation, in thecontext.of  the	 section and read in conjunction  with	the.words " to the resident " and " therefrom ", there cannot beany  doubt that they have reference to the business  of	 theresident and not that of the non-resident.The  word  " or " in the clause would appear  to  be  ratherinappropriate,	as it is susceptible of	 the  interpretationthat when some profits are made but theylog856are less than the normal profits, tax could only be  imposedeither	on the one or on the other, and that  accordingly  atax on the actual profits earned would bar the imposition oftax   on   profits   which   might   have   been   received.Obviously,that could not have been intended, and the word  "or  " would have to be read in the context as meaning "	 and". Vide Maxwell's Interpretation of Statutes, Tenth Edn. pp.238-239.   But	that, however, does not affect	the  presentquestion  which is whether the word " derived "	 indubitablypoints to the business of the nonresident as the one taxableunder  s.  42 (2), and for the reasons	already	 given,	 theanswer must be in the negative.The  appellant also relied on the clauses in s. 42 (2)	thatthe  profits shall be chargeable to tax in the name  of	 theresident' and that he shall be deemed to be the assessee forall  purposes of the Act' as indicating that it is  not	 thebusiness of the resident that is really sought to be  taxed.But these clauses are explainable with reference to the factthat  the profits taxed are not actual profits but what	 aredeemed	to  be profits.	 It was argued that if	it  was	 theintention  of  the  legislature that what  was	not  profitsshould	be  deemed  to be profits,  that  should  have	beenindependently  provided for before the tax is  imposed,	 andthat in the absence of such a provision, the word " deemed "must be construed as referring not to notional profits beingtreated	 as actual profits, but to a person who is  not,  infact, an assessee, being treated as an assessee.  We see  nosubstance  in  this  argument.	There is no  reason  why  anenactment  should  not	both  declare  notional	 profits  astaxable profits and at the same time impose a charge on	 theresident  in  respect  of those	 profits,  and	that,  quiteclearly,  is  what s. 42 (2) has done.	It may be  that	 itslanguage  is not felicitous. But there can, however,  be  nomistaking  its sense that it is the resident that is  to  bedealt  with as assessee in respect of profits which  he	 hadnot, in fact, made.Nor do we see much force in the argument that s. 42, sub-ss.(1) and (3) relate to income of the nonresident and that  s.42(2)  which is wedged in between them should  therefore  beinterpreted as having857reference  to  the  profits of	the  non-resident.   If	 thelanguage of s. 42(2) is clear that it is the resident who ischargeable to tax, it is of no consequence that under s. 42,sub-ss.	 (1) and (3) it is the non-resident that  is  taxed.It should be remembered that s. 42 occurs in Ch.  V headed "Liability  in Special Cases ", and s. 42(2) is	a  liabilitywhich	is  out	 of  the  ordinary  run,  and  it   is	 notinappropriate  to  deal with it in s. 42, because  while  s.42(1)  seeks  to  bring within the  ambit  of  taxation	 theprofits	 of a non-resident which accrue in India,  s.  42(2)seeks  to  tax the resident in respect of profits  which  hewould  have normally made but for his  business	 associationwith a non-resident.  On the other hand, on the constructioncontended  for	by  the	 appellant  s.	42(2)  would  becomepractically  useless  because a non-resident  whose  profitscould  be taxed under s. 42(2) could also be taxed under  s.42(1),	as also the resident if he were the agent.  None  ofthe  considerations  put  forward by  the  appellant  is  ofsufficient  weight  to displace the conclusion to  be  drawnfrom  the words " to the resident " and " therefrom " in  s.42(2),	and  we	 must hold that the business  which  is	 thesubject-matter	of taxation under that provision is that  ofthe  resident  and not of a non-resident.   This  contentionmust accordingly be found against the appellant.We shall next consider the second ground urged in support ofthe  appeal that it is a condition for the levy of a  chargeunder s. 42(2) that a non-resident should carry on  businesswith  the  resident,  and that, on  the	 facts	found,	thatcondition  is not satisfied, and that therefore the  tax  isunauthorised.	It is argued that the business of  the	non-resident  companies is to ply ships for hire, and  that	 theappellant has no concern with that; that the business of theappellant  is  to  repair ships and  that  the	non-residentcompanies  have no connection with that business;  and	thatall that the non-resident companies do is to get their shipsrepaired  by  the  appellant, and that does  not  amount  tocarrying  on any business with the appellant.  A person	 whoregularly purchases his goods from a particular dealer	doesnot, it is said, carry on business with858that dealer, and on the same analogy, in getting their shipsrepaired by the appellant the non-resident companies  cannotbe said to carry on business with them in the real sense  ofthat word.We  are	 unable	 to agree with this  contention.   The	word"business"  is, as has often been said, one of	wide  importand  in	 fiscal statutes, it must be construed	in  a  broadrather than a restricted sense.	 Discussing the	 connotationof  the word trade", Scott L. J. observed in Smith Barry  V.Cordy (1):"  The	history	 of judicial  decisions	 has  been  similar,showing	 a  strong  tendency not to restrict  the  scope  ofSchedule D; a tendency which was, we think, in sympathy withthe  general  social and economic outlook  of  the  country.There  is hardly any activity for gaining a  livelihood	 andnot  covered by the other Schedules, which does not seem  tous to be swept into the fiscal net by the Schedule D."'The word business' connotes", it was observed by this Courtin  Narain  Swadeshi Weaving Mills v.  The  Commissioner  ofExcess	 Profits  Tax  (2),  "some  real,  substantial	 andsystematic or organised course of activity or conduct with aset  purpose."	Now, it may be conceded that when  a  personpurchases  his	requirements from a  particular	 dealer,  hecannot	without more be said to carry on business with	him.But  here  there is much more.	The  non-resident  companiessend  their ships for repair to the appellant, not  as	theymight  to any other repairer but under a  special  agreementthat  repairs  should be done at cost.	And  further  unlikecustomers  who purchase goods for their own  consumption  oruse, the non-resident companies get their ships repaired foruse in what is admittedly their business.  These are clearlytrading	 activities,  organised	 and  continuous  in   theircharacter and it will be difficult to escape the  conclusionthat they constitute business.	We are not even concerned inthis appeal with the larger question whether the  activitiesof  the nonresident companies in connection with the  repairof  the	 ships amount to carrying on of business.   What  wehave to decide is whether having regard to the(1) (1946) 28 Tax Cas. 250, 259.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 952, 961.859course	of dealings between the non-resident  companies	 andthe  appellant it can be said of the former that they  carryon business with the latter within the meaning of s.  42(2).Now,  it  should be observed that s. 42 speaks	not  of	 thenonresidents  carrying	on business in the abstract  but  oftheir  carrying	 on business with the resident, and  in	 thecontext, it must include all activities between them  havingrelationship  to their business.  That is the view taken  bythe  learned  Judges  in  the Court below,  and	 we  are  inagreement with it.In this connection, reference may be made to s. 42(1)  underwhich  a  charge  is imposed on	 income,  profits  or  gainsaccruing  to a non-resident through any business  connectionin  the taxable territories.  In Commissioner of  Income-taxv.  Curimbhoy  Ebrahim & Sons (1), it was  observed  by	 thePrivy  Council	that  business connection  in  s.  42(1)  isdifferent from business as defined in s. 4(2) of the Act.  "The phrase business connection', observed Sir George Rankin,"  is  different  from, though not unrelated  to,  the	wordbusiness'  of which there is a definition in the Act ".	 Andin Anglo-French Textile Co., Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  Madras (2), this Court has observed that " when  thereis a continuity of business relationship between the  personin  British  India  who helps to make-the  profits  and	 theperson	outside British India who receives or  realises	 hisprofits,  such	relationship  does  constitute	a   businessconnection".   Vide  also  the	observations  in   BangaloreWoollen,  Cotton and Silk Mills Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  Madras  (3	 ). The words "where  a	 person	 notresident in the taxable territories carries on business witha   person   resident"	in  S.	42(2)  must   be   similarlyinterpreted,  and a non-resident should be held to carry  onbusiness with a resident, if the dealings between them	formconcerted and organised activities of a business  character.We are accordingly of opinion that, on the facts found,	 thenon-resident  Companies	 must  be held to  have	 carried  onbusiness with the appellant as provided in s. 42(2).(1) [1935] 3 I..T.R. 395.      (2) [1953] S.C.R. 454.(3) [1950] 18 1,T.R. 423. 433. 434.860It  was argued that the result of this arrangement was	onlyto reduce the repairing charges and enable the	non-residentCompanies to thereby make a saving; that that was not profitor gains of a business liable to be taxed under the Act, andthe  decisions	in  Tennant v. Smith (1)  and  In  re  MajorJohn(") -were cited in sup. port of this position.  But,  asalready	 held by us, the subject-matter of the tax under  s.42(2)  is the business of the resident and not that  of	 thenon-resident, and what we have to decide is not whether	 thenonresident  Companies made profits in their  dealings	withthe  appellant but whether what they did was  business,	 andfor  that  purpose it is immaterial that  the  business	 wascarried	 on  by them in such manner that  no  profits  couldaccrue	 to  them  therefrom.	Vide  the  observations	  ofColeridge C. J. at p. 113 in Commissioners of Inland Revenuev.  Incorporated  Council of Law Reporting (3  ).  The	facttherefore  that	 the nonresident Companies could  derive  noprofits	 from  the  dealings with the  appellant  would	 notdetract from their character as business with the appellant.This contention must, therefore, be rejected.It  was finally contended that the profits chargeable  unders. 42(2) must be separately assessed and not added on to theother  profits or income of the appellant.  This  contentionis  based  on the assumption that s. 42(2)  imposes  on	 theappellant,  a  vicarious  liability,  the  charge  being  inreality	 on the profits of the nonresident.  On our  findingthat the charge is on the business of the appellant and	 notof  the	 non-resident Companies, this  contention  does	 notsurvive.In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.(1) [18921 3 Tax Cas. 158.(2) [1938] 6 I.T.R. 434.(3) [1888] 3 TaxCas. 105.861