PETITIONER:MITHAN LAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF DELHI & ANOTHER(with connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:07/04/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  682		  1959 SCR  445ACT:Sales Tax--Building contracts-Tax on supply of materials  inconstruction  works-Competence of  Parliament-Delegation  ofauthority to extend taxation law-Notification by Govenrment-Validity--Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Ben.  VI  of1941),	SS.  2,	 4-Part C States (Laws) Act,  1950  (XXX  of1950), S. 2 Constitution of India, Arts. 246(4), 248(2).HEADNOTE:The petitioners were building contractors carrying  on busi-ness in Delhi, which under the Constitution of India  becamea Part C State.	 In exercise of the power conferred by	Art.246(4)	of the Constitution,, Parliament enacted the Part  CStates	(Laws)	Act,  1950, by virtue  of  which  the  ChiefCommissioner  of Delhi issued a notification  extending	 theoperation  of tile Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941,  toDelhi.	 Acting under the provisions of this Act, the  salestax  officer imposed tax oil the petitioners in	 respect  ofmaterials  supplied in execution of the building  contracts.After  paying it for some years the  petitioners  challengedthe  validity of the assessment on the grounds, inter  alia,that (1) as there was no sale of materials used in executionof  a building contract, a tax thereon was  not	 authorised,and (2) in any event, the provisions of the Act under  whichtile  sales  tax  officer  sought  to  levy  the  tax	wereunconstitutional and invalidHeld,  (1)  It is within tile competence  of  Parliament  toimpose	a  tax	on  the	 supply	 of  materials	in  buildingcontracts and to impose it under the name of sales tax,	 andas  Parliament has the power to legislate for Part C  Statestile imposition of the tax on the, petitioners is valid.State  of Madras v. Gannot Dunkerley and Co. (Madras)  Ltd.,[1939] S.C.R- 379, held inapplicable.(2)  Section 2 of the Part C States (Laws) Act is not repug-nant  to Art. 248(2) on the ground that it conferred on	 theGovernment  authority  to extend a taxation law	 to  Part  CStates.	 When a notification is issued under s. 2 of the Actby the appropriate Government extending the law of a Part  AState to a Part C State, the provisions of the law which  isextended become incorporated by reference,in the Act itself,and  therefore a tax;imposed thereunder is a tax imposed  byParliament.(3)  Section   2   Of,,	  the  Act,  is	 not   bad   as	  anunconstitutional delegation of legislative powers.57446In re The Delhi Laws Act, 1912, [1951] S.C.R. 747, followed.(4)  The expression "enactment which is in force in a Part AState  "  in s. 2 of the Act must be  construed	 as  meaning",statute  which  is  in operation in a part A	State  "  asdistinct from a statute which had been repealed, and  cannotbe interpreted as having reference to individual sections orprovisions of a statute.(5)  The  notification in question whether it is  viewed  asone extending a subsisting statute to Delhi or as  extendingit which modifications so far as the impugned provisions areconcerned, is intra vires s. 2.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURTSDTCTION: Petitions Nos. 15 & 16 of 1955.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.Radhey Lal Aggarwal, for the petitioners.C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-Genneral of India	 and  R.  H.Dhebar, for the respondents.T.   M.	  Sen,	 for  the  States  of  Madras	and   Mysore(Interveners).G.   C.	 Mathur	 and  C.  P. Lal, for the  State  of  U.  P.(Intervener).Sardai, Bahadur, for the State of Kerala  (Intervener).Ratnaparkhi, A. G., for M/s.  Raipur Provincial	 EngineeringCo. (Intervener).1958.  April 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byVENKATARAMA   AIYAR   J.-The   petitioners   are    buildingcontractors  carrying  on business in Delhi, and  they	havefiled  the  present  applications  under  Art.	32  of	 theConstitution challenging the validity of certain  provisionsof  the Bengal, Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Ben.   VI  of1941),	which had been extended to the State of Delhi  by  anotification dated April 28,The  impugned provisions of the Act may 'now be referred  toSection	 2(d)  of the Act defines "goods as  including	"allmaterials,  articles and commodities, whether or not  to  beused in the construction fitting			447out,  improvement or repair of immovable property  Sale"  isdefined in s. 2 (g) as including " any transfer of  propertyin  goods  for cash or deferred payment	 or  other  valuableconsideration,	including  a transfer of property  in  goodsinvolved       in	the	  execution	  of	   acontract.................................    Section	2(b)defines	 "  contract  as  meaning,  omitting  what  is	 notrelevant,"  any	agreement  for carrying out  for  cash	or  deferredpayment	 or other valuable  consideration-the  construction,fitting	 out, improvement or repair of any  building,  road,bridge or other immovable property." "Sale price" is definedin  s. 2(h)(ii) as meaning valuable consideration  for	"thecarrying  out of any contract, less such portion as  may  beprescribed of such amount, representing the usual proportionof  the	 cost  of labour to the cost of	 materials  used  incarrying  out  such contract " Turnover" is  defined  in  s.2(i), and is as follows:"   Turnover  " used in relation to any	 period	 mean,,	 theaggregate  of  the  sale-prices	 or  parts  of	sale  pricesreceivable,  or if a dealer so elects, actually received  bythe  dealer during such period after deducting the  amounts,if  any,  refunded  by the dealer in respect  of  any  goodsreturned by the purchaser within such period."Section	  4,  which  is	 the  charging	section,   provides,that....................  every dealer whose gross  turnoverduring	the year immediately preceding the  commencement  ofthis Act exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to paytax  under this Act on all sales effected after the date  sonotified."The  Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941, was a law  passedby  the	 Legislature of the Province of Bengal	and  appliedonly to sales effected within that Province, and, after	 thepartition of the Country, to sales effected within the Stateof  West Bengal.  Under the Government of India	 Act,  1935,Delhi  was a Chief Commissioner's Province  administered  bythe Governor General, and under the Constitution, it  becamea  Part C State, and Art. 239 vested its  administration  inthe President acting through a Chief Commissioner448or  a  Lieutenant-Governor as he might	think  fit.  Article246(4)	which  is  material  for  the  present	purposes  asfollows:Parliament has power to make laws With respect to any matterfor any part of the territory of India not included in	PartA or Part B of the First Schedule notwithstanding that	suchmatter is a matter enumerated in the State List."In    exercise	  of   the   power   conferred	  by	thisArticle,Parliament enacted the Part C States (Laws) Act	 No.XXX of 1950, and s. 2 thereof is as follows:"The Central Government may, by notification in the OfficialGazette',  extend to any Part C State (other than Coorg	 andthe  Andaman  and Nicobar Islands) or to any  part  of	suchState, with such restrictions and modifications as it thinksfit,  any enactment which is in force in a Part A  State  atthe date of the Notification............."On April 28, 1951, the Chief Commissioner of Delhi issued  anotification  under this section extending the operation  ofthe  Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941, to Delhi as	fromNovember 1, 1951.  Acting under the provisions of this	Act,the  Sales Tax Officer, Karolbagh, Delhi issued on June	 12,1952,  notices	to  the petitioners calling  upon  them,  tosubmit returns of their receipts from building contracts andto deposit the taxes due thereon.  In compliance with  thesenotices,  the petitioners were sending quarterly returns  oftheir taxable turnover and assessment orders were also	madein respect of their annual turnover for the. years 1951-1952and 1952-1953, and the amounts due thereunder had also	beenpaid.	For  the year 1953-1954, the quarterly	returns	 hadbeen  submitted	 and  the tax  due  thereon  deposited,	 andproceedings  were  pending for assessment of  tax  for	thatyear.	This  was the position when the	 Madras	 High  Courtpronounced its, decision in Gannon Dunkerley & Co. v.  Stateof  Madras  (1), that the provisions of the  Madras  GeneralSales Tax Act, 1939, imposing tax on the supply of materialsin  construction  works were ultra vires the powers  of	 theProvincial Legislature under Entry 48(1)  [1954] 5 S.T.C. 216.449in  List  II,  Sch.  VII to the	 Government  of	 India	Act,1935.Basing themselves on this judgment, the petitioners who	 hadbeen  acting so far on the view that the provisions  of	 theBengal	Finance	 (Sales	 Tax) Act,  1941,  imposing  tax  onconstruction contracts were valid and had been paying tax inthat  belief, filed Civil Writs Nos. 244-D and, 247 of	1954in  the Punjab High Court challenging the validity of  thoseprovisions on the ground that there was no sale of materialsused  in  execution of a building contract, and that  a	 taxthereon	 was not authorised by Entry 48.   They	 accordinglyprayed (a) for a writ of certiorari quashing the assesssmentfor  the  years 1951-1952 and 1952-1953, (b) for a  writ  ofprohibition restraining proceedings for assessment of  salestax  for  the year 1953-1954 or realisation of any  tax	 forthat  year,  and (c) for a writ of  mandamus  directing	 therespondents   to  forbear  in  future  from  assessing	 thepetitioners  to	 sales tax under  the  impugned	 provisions.Both  these petitions were summarily dismissed by  the	HighCourt on October 18, 1954, and the orders of dismissal,	 nothaving	been  challenged  in  appropriate  proceedings	havebecome final.Now, the present attempt of the petitioners is to reopen thequestion  which had been answered against them by  the	HighCourt  of' Punjab by resort to proceedings under Art. 32  ofthe  Constitution.  It is therefore not surprising that	 thelearned	 Solicitor  General appearing  for  the	 respondentsshould	have  taken  preliminary  objections  of  a  seriouscharacter  to  the maintainability of these  petitions.	  Hecontended that the petitioners having filed petitions  underArt.  226  claiming  the very reliefs which  they  have	 nowprayed for and on he very grounds now put forward, and thosepetitions  having been dismissed and no appeals having	beenfiled against the orders of dismissal, they had no right  toinvoke	the  jurisdiction of this Court under  Art.  32	 forobtaining  the same reliefs.  He further contended that	 theclaim  of the petitioners that the assessments in  question,being450unauthorised,	constituted  an	 interference	with   theirfundamental  right to carry on business under Art 19  (1)(g)could  not be maintained inasmuch as assessment	 proceedingshad "been completed and the tax realised He also argued thateven if the petitioners were right in their contention	thatthe  assessments were unauthorised, their remedy was to	 suefor refund of the taxes paid, and that the applications	 forwrit  of certiorari to quash the orders of  assessment	weremisconceived.	It was further contended that  the  paymentshaving been made, by the petitioners voluntarily-it might beunder  a misconception of their rights they had no right  toclaim	refund	of  the	 amounts  even	by  action.    Thesecontentions raise questions of considerable importance;	 butit  is	unnecessary to express our opinion thereon,  as	 thepetitioners  also pray for a writ of mandamus directing	 therespondents  to forbear from imposing sales tax	 in  future,and  it will be more satisfactory to decide the case on	 themerits.The  contention of the petitioners based on the decision  ofthe Madras High Court in Gannon Dunkerley & Co. v. State  ofMadras (4) is that the State Legislatures acting under Entry48  have  no competence to enact laws imposing	tax  on	 thesupply of materials in execution of works contract, as thereis  no	sale  of those materials  by  the  contractor.	 Thedecision  in Gannon Dunkerley & Co. v., State of Madras	 (1)was taken on appeal to this Court in Civil Appeal No. 210 of1956,  and  by our judgment, The State of Madras  v.  GannonDunkerley  &  Co., (Madras) Ltd.(2) pronounced on  April  1,1958,  we  have	 affirmed it, and if  the  present  case  isgoverned by 'that judgment, the petitioners would clearly beentitled  to  succeed.	But it is contended by	the  learnedSolicitor-General  that that decision has no application  tothe present petitions' because the impugned law was  enactednot  by	 a  State  Legislature	in  exercise  of  the  powerconferred by Entry 54 in List II but by Parliament by virtueof the authority granted by Art. 246(4) of the Constitution,(1) [1954] 5 S.T.C. 216	  (2)[1959] S.C.R. 379.451and  that it was within the competence of Parliament  actingunder,	that  Article,	to impose a tax	 on  the  supply  ofmaterials  in building contracts, even though there  was  nosale of those materials within Entry 54.In our opinion,. this contention is well-founded.  Art. 246,Cls.,  (2),  and  (3), of the  Constitution  confer  on	 theLegislatures,  of the States mentioned in Parts A and B	 thepower,	to make laws with respect to the matters  enumeratedin Lists II and III of Sch.  VII, and one of those.  mattersis  Tax on the sale of goods ", Entry 54 in List II.  It  iswith reference to the corresponding Entry in the  Governmentof  India Act, 1935, Entry 48 in List II, that we have	heldin The State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley & Co., Madras Ltd(1)  that the power to tax sale of goods conferred  by	thatEntry  has reference only to sales as defined in the  Indiansale  of  Goods Act, 1930.  But here, we are  concerned	 notwith a law of a State, mentioned in Part A or Part But	withthat  of  a  State  in	Part C.	 Under	Art.  246(4)  it  isParliament  that  has  the power to  legislate	for  Part  CStates,	 and that power is untrammelled by  the	 limitationsprescribed  by Art. 246, Cls. (.2) and (3), and Entry 54  ofList II , and is plenary and absolute, subject-only to	suchrestrictions as are imposed by the Constitution,and there isnone  such which is, material to the present  question.	  Itwould therefore be competent to Parliament to impose tax  onthe supply of materials in building contracts and to  imposeit  under the name of., sales tax, as has been done  by	 theParliament  of	the  Commonwealth of  Australia	 or  by	 theLegislatures  of the American States.  The decision  in	 TheState  of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley Co., Madras Ltd.  whichwas given on a statute passed by the Provincial Legislature.under  the Government of India Act, 1935, has  therefore  noapplication to the present case.It  is	argued that though Parliament his' the	power  underArt.264(4)  to	 make  a law imposing  tax  on	construct  acontracts that power is subject to the limitation  containedin Art., 248, that under that Article it is Parliament	thathas the exclusive power(1) [1959] S.C.R.379452to  enact laws in respect of matters not enumerated  in	 theLists,	including  taxation,  and that such  a	power  couldproperly  be exercised only by Parliament itself imposing  atax and not by its extending the operation of a taxation lawpassed by the Legislature of a State ; and that s. 2 of	 thePart  C	 States (Laws) Act must be held to be bad  as  beingrepugnant  to  Art. 48(2) in so far as it conferred  on	 theGovernment  authority  to extend a taxation law	 to  Part  CStates.	 This argument proceeds on a misapprehension of	 thetrue  scope of Art. 248.  That Article has reference to	 thedistribution  of legislative powers between the	 Centre	 andthe States mentioned in Parts A and 13 under the three Listsin Sch.	 VII, and it provides that in respect of matters notenumerated in the Lists including taxation, it is Parliamentthat has power to enact laws.  It has no application to PartC States, for which the governing provision is Art.  246(4).Moreover,  when a notification is issued by the	 appropriateGovernment  extending the law of a Part A State to a Part  CState, the law so extended derives its force in the State towhich  it is extended from s. 2 of the Part C States  (Laws)Act  enacted  by Parliament.  The result of  a	notificationissued under that section is than, the provisions of the lawwhich  is extended become incorporated by reference, in	 theAct itself, and therefore a tax imposed thereunder is a	 taximposed	 by Parliament.	 There is thus no substance in	thiscontention.It is next contended for the petitioners that even  assumingthat Parliament was competent to impose a tax on the  supplyof  materials in a building contract and that could be	doneby  a notification extending the law of a Part A State,	 thenotification  dated  April  28, 1951, is, in so	 far  as  itrelates	 to  the  impugned  provisions,	 in  excess  of	 theauthority conferred by s. 2, because that section limits theauthority of the central Government to extend laws of Part AStates	to  Part C States, to " any enactment  which  is  inforce  "  at  the  date of the	notification,  and,  as	 theimpugned  provisions of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax)	Act,1941, were ultra vires Entry 48 under which the Legislature453of the Province of Bengal derived its power to impose  salestax, they were not " in force " in the State of West  Bengalat the date of the notification, and could not therefore  beextended   to  the  State  of  Delhi.	According   to	 thepetitioners, " enactment in force" in s. 2 must be construedas  meaning  provisions	 of a statute which  are  valid	 andenforceable.   We are unable to agree with this	 contention.Though	the  language  of s. 2 might, in  the  abstract,  besusceptible  of the construction which the petitioners	seekto put upon it, in the context that is not, in our  opinion,its true meaning.  What is intended by that section is	thatwith  reference to different topics of legislation on  whichthe several States in Part A had enacted different statutes,the  authority acting under s. 2 should have the  discretionto extend that statute in any of the Part A States which  isbest suited to the conditions in the particular Part C Stateto  which  it  is to be extended,  and	that,  further,	 theauthority  should have the power to extend it with  suitableit restrictions and modifications ". It could not have	beenintended by this section that the authority concerned shouldtake upon itself to examine, the vires of each and every oneof the provisions in the statute, and then extend only	suchof  them  as  it considers to be valid.	 In  our  view,	 theexpression " enactment which is in force in a Part A State "must be construed as meaning " statute which is in operationin a Part A State" as distinct from a statute which had beenrepealed and it cannot be interpreted as having reference toindividual sections or provisions of a statute.But even if we accept the narrow construction contended	 forby  the petitioners, that would not make any  difference  inthe  result,  as  the authority conferred by  s.  2  on	 theGovernment to extend the enactments in force in Part A Stateincludes   a   power  to  do  so   with	  restrictions	 andmodifications,	and  it	 was within the	 competence  of	 theGovernment  acting on this provision to incorporate  on	 itsown authority the impugned provisions by way of modificationof  the	 Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941.	It  is	saidthat,58454the notification does not, as a fact, purport to modify	 theBengal Act, but merely extends the whole of it on a mistakennotion that it is all valid.  But that does  not affect	 theposition.  The notification intends that all the  provisionsof the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941, should  operatein  the State of Delhi, and if that could be effectuated  byrecourse being had to any of the powers of the	Legislature,that should be done and the legislation upheld as  referableto that power.Ut res magis valeat quam pereat.It is lastly urged that s. 2 of the Part C States (Laws) Actis  bad for the reason that it confers on the  Government  apower to modify laws passed by State Legislatures, and	thatit  is an unconstitutional delegation of legislative  powersto authorise an outside authority to modify a law enacted bya  Legislature	on what are essentially matters	 of  policy.Now, it should be noted that in re The Delhi Laws Act,	1912etc.  (1) one of the questions referred for the	 opinion  ofthis Court related to the vires of this very provision,	 andthe answer of the majority of this Court was that the  firstportion	 of the section, which is what is material  for	 thepresent discussion, was valid.	Counsel for the petitioners,however,  relies on the decision of this Court in  RajnarainSingh v. The Chairman, Patna Administration Committee, Patnaand  another  (2),  wherein it was held	 than  an  executiveauthority could be authorised by a statute to modify  eitherexisting  or future laws but not in any	 essential  feature,and that a modification which involved a change of policy ofthe Act would be bad.  It is argued that it is a question ofpolicy	whether	 taxes should be imposed on  the  supply  ofmaterials  in building contracts, and that,  therefore,	 thepower  conferred by s. 2 on the Government to extend  a	 lawwith  modifications  cannot be exercised so as to  modify  aprovision  of  the Bengal Finance. (Sales  Tax)	 Act,  1941,relating  to that matter.  The answer to this contention  isthat  the  modification	 made  by  the	Central	 Government,assuming  that is its true character, does not	involve	 anychange	of policy underlying the Bengal Finance (Sales	Tax)Act,  1941.   Indeed, the modification gives effect  to	 thepolicy of that(1) [1951] S.C.R. 747.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 290.455enactment  which was to bring construction contracts  withinthe  ambit  of the taxation powers of the State,  and  whichfailed	only for want of legislative authority.	 Whether  weview the notification as one extending a subsisting  statuteto Delhi or as extending it with modifications so far as theimpugned provisions are concerned, it is intra vires S. 2.failed, the petitions are dismissed with costs.Petitions dismissed.