PETITIONER:CHATURBHAI M. PATEL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/12/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR  424		  1960 SCR  (2) 362 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC 922	 (13) RF	    1967 SC1512	 (63)ACT:Legislative  Competence-Validity of enactment-Competence  ofCentral Legislature-Levy of excise duty on tobacco-Pith	 andsubstance of legislation-Central Excises and Salt Act,	1944(1  of 1944), ss. 6, 8, Rules-Government of India Act,	1935(26 Geo.  V. Ch. 2), s. 100, Sch. 7, List 1, Entry 45,	List11, Entries 27, 29.HEADNOTE:The petitioner who was doing business in tobacco was chargedwith  the  contravention  of Rules 151(C)  and	226  of	 theCentral Excise Rules, 1944, framed under the Central Excisesand Salt Act, 1944.  The Collector finding the charges to beproved	ordered	 confiscation  of the  goods  found  in	 thepetitioner's  warehouse and levied duty thereon in  lieu  ofconfiscation  and also imposed a penalty of RS. 2,000.	 Thepetitioner  challenged	the validity of the  orders  on	 thegrounds,  inter	 alia, that ss. 6 and 8 of the Act  and	 theRules made thereunder were beyond the legislative competenceof  the Central legislature in view of the fact that  thoughthe  provisions	 of the Act which provided for the  levy  ofexcise duties might fall within item 45 of List 1 read	withS.  100	 of the Government of India Act, 1935,	the  Act  inquestion  would also be covered by items 27 and 29, of	List11,  as	 the  possession  and trade  in	 tobacco  were	alsoregulated, and would, to that extent, be ultra vires.		     363Held, that the various provisions of the Central Excises andSalt   Act,  1944,  and	 the  Rules  made  thereunder	wereessentially  connected	with the levying and  collection  ofexcise	duty  and in its true nature and character  the	 Actremained one under item 45 of List 1 and that the incidentaltrenching  upon	 the provincial field of items 27 or  29  ofList 11 would not affect its constitutionality.It  is within the competence of the Central  legislature  toprovide	 for  matters which may otherwise  fall	 within	 theCompetence  of	the  Provincial	 Legislature  if  they	 arenecessarily  incidental	 to  effective	legislation  by	 theCentral	 legislature on a subject of  legislation  expresslywithin its power.State  of Rajasthan v. G. Chawla, A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 544,	 andCooverjee  Bharucha  v. The Excise  Commissioner  of  Ajmer,[1954] S.C.R. 873, followed.Attorney-General for Canada v. Attorney-General for  BritishColumbia, [1930] A.C. 111 and Attorney-General for Canada v.Attorney-General for Quebec, [1947] A.C. 33, relied on.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 9 of 1957.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of fundamental rights.B.   D. Sharma, for the petitioner.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitar-General of India R.  H.  Dhebarand T. M. Sen, for the respondents.1959.	December 2. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR J.-The petitioner was a wholesale and retail dealer intobacco at Banaras and also owned a private bonded warehousefor  tobacco  and  held	 licences for  the  same.   In	thispetition he challenges the legality of certain orders passedby the Collector of Excise, Allahabad, which on appeal	wereconfirmed and revisions against those orders were  dismissedby  the Central Government.  The petitioner's warehouse	 waschecked	 by Inspector Das who on finding  some	irregularitysealed	the warehouse on December 8, 1953, and	subsequentlytook  possession of all the registers and stock	 cards.	  OnDecember22,1953,  11  1/2  bags of kandi  i.e.	"  stems  oftobacco	 ". which were found in the petitioner's  warehouse,were removed from the warehouse by the Inspector and  storedin some other364place.	 Against  those orders the petitioner  made  certainrepresentations	 to  the Collector and	some  correspondencepassed.	  On June 15, 1954, the Collector,  Central  Excise,issued	a  notice  to the petitioner to	 show  cause  why  apenalty	 should not be imposed on him for the  contraventionof  Rules 151(C)and 226 of the Central Excise  Rules,  1944,and  why the bags of kandi should not be confiscatted.	 Thepetitioner showed cause, the Collector heard the  petitionerwho  had also filed written arguments.	Finding the  chargesagainst	  the  petitioner  proved,  the	 Collector   orderedconfiscation of the bags of kandi, imposed a fine of Rs. 150and  the duty leviable thereon in lieu of confiscation.	  Hefurther imposed a penalty of Rs. 2,000 under rr. 151(C)	 and226  of the Central Excise Rules.  The appeal taken  to	 theCentral	 Board	of Revenue was dismissed as  the  petitionerrefused	 to deposit the penalty of Rs. 2,000 and a  revisionto  the Central Board of Revenue was also dismissed for	 thesame reason.  This is one of the orders which is  challengedby the petitioner.On  July 29, 1954, the Collector called upon the  petitionerto  produce another surety as the previous  surety  MohammadSatar  was  not	 prepared to act as  such.   The  petitionerstates that he thereupon furnished two bonds in Form B-4 andB-5 for Rs. 7,000 and Rs. 10,000 respectively.	As there wasa  sum of Rs. 15, 263-8-0 due from him (the  petitioner)  asExcise duty, 373 Mds. of tobaco were attached by the  ExciseDepartment  and	 sold  by auction  for	Rs.  6,878-5-0	thusleaving a balance of Rs. 8,385-3-0.  As the Department	madedemands	 for  the  recovery  of this  balance  of  duty	 thepetitioner  filed  a civil suit in the court  of  the  FirstAdditional  Civil Judge, Banaras, who issued  an  ad-interiminjunction against the Department restraining it to  recoverthe  amount.   On January 25, 1956,  the  Superintendent  ofExcise called upon the petitioner to deposit a cash securityof  Rs.	 10,000 otherwise his licence would  be	 treated  ascancelled under r. 181(1) of the Central Excise Rules.	 Thepetitioner demurred to this and as the outstanding amount ofexcise duty was not paid the Deputy			    365Collector  ordered  on	February 13,  1956,  that  till	 thedeposit	 was  made  the petitioner's  licence  shall  remaininoperative.   The  petitioner took an appeal  against	thisorder to the Central Board of Revenue which was	 dissmissed.The petitioner also filed a petition under  Art. 226  in thePunjab	High Court which was also dismissed and	 a  revisionagainst the order of the Deputy Collector making the licenceinoperative was dismissed by the Central Board of Revenue onDecember  20,  1956.   This is the  second  order  which  ischallenged.The present petition was filed on January 21, 1957, in whichthe petitioner prayed (1) that the provisions of ss. 6, 8, 9and  10 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, Act 1  of1944 (which for the sake of convenience will hereinafter  betermed the Act) and the rr. 140 to 148, 150, 171 to 181, 215and  226 of the Central Excise Rules made under the  Act  bedeclared  ultra vires and to issue a writ of  certiorari  orany  other writ to quash the orders passed by the  Collectoras confirmed on appeal and revision by the Central Board  ofRevenue	 and  the Central  Government  respectively.   Theseorders	have  already been referred to. (2) For	 a  writ  ofmandamus directing the respondents not to interfere with thefundamental  right  of the petitioner to carry on  trade  intobacco	 or to store tobacco; (3) directing the	 respondentsto return the goods confiscated by them.For the petitioner three points were raised: (1) that ss.  6and  8 of the Act and the Rules made thereunder were  beyondthe legislative competence of the Central legislature  underthe  Constitution Act of 1935; (2) even if they were  withinthe   legislative  competence  they  impose  excessive	 andunreasonable  restraint	 on  the fundamental  right  of	 thepetitioner  to	trade in tobacco and they were	not  in	 theinterest of the general public and therefore were not  savedby  Art. 19(6); (3) orders passed were ultra vires  the	 Actand the Rules made thereunder.Before	we  proceed  to consider the  arguments	 raised	  onbehalf of the petitioner, it is necessary to examine47366the  scheme of the Act.	 Its scope as given in the  preambleis:-"to consolidate and amend the law relating to central-dutiesof  excise  on goods manufactured  or  produced	 in  BritishIndia and to salt."  Section-2  of the Act gives the definitions.	 Chapter  11provides  for  levy and collection of duty.   The  two	mainsections, i.e., 6 and 8 fall under this Chapter.  Section  6provides  for certain operations to be subject	to  licencesand when quoted it runs as follows:S.  6 " The Central Government may, by notification  in	 theofficial  Gazette,  provide that, from such date as  may  bespecified in the notification, no person shall, except underthe   authority	 and  in  accordance  with  the	 terms	 andconditions of a licence granted under this Act engage  in(a)  the  production or manufacture or any  process  of	 theproduction  or manufacture of any specified excisable  goodsor  of	saltpetre  or of any specified	component  parts  oringredients of such goods or of specified containers of suchgoods, or (b) the wholesale purchase or sale (whether on hisown  account  or  as a broker or commission  agent)  or	 thestorage of any excisable goods specified in this behalf,  inpart A of the Second Schedule."Section	 8  imposes restriction on possession  of  excisablegoods.	It is as follows:"From  such date as may be specified in this behalf  by	 theCentral Government by notification in the official  Gazette,no person shall, except as provided by rules made under thisAct, have in his possession any excisable goods specified inthis  behalf in Part B of the Second Schedule in  excess  ofsuch  quantity as may be prescribed for the purpose of	thissection	 as  the  maximum amount of such  goods	 or  of	 anyvariety of such goods which may be possessed at any one-timeby such a person."Section	 9  deals with offences and penalties.	 Section  10gives  to the court the power to order forfeiture.   Section11 makes provision for recovery of duties due to			    367Government.    Chapter	 VI  deals  with   adjudication	  ofconfiscation  and  penalties specifying the  powers  of	 theCollector of Central Excise and appeals against such  ordersand  revision  to  the	Central	 Government.   Chapter	 VIIcontains  supplementary provisions; s. 37  therein  empowersthe Central Government to make rules and in the Schedule therates  or duties leviable on each class of goods  are  givenand tobacco falls in item 9.The question is, as to whether the Act falls within item No.45  of	List 1 read with s. 100 of the Government  of  IndiaAct.  It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that eventhough	the imposition of excise duties may fall under	itemNo.  45	 of List 1 of the Constitution Act it is  a  seriousencroachment on the territory covered by items 27 and 29  ofList 11 of that Act.  The argument raised was that  althoughthe Act imposes duty of excise within item 45 of List 1 and,that  was  one of its objects, it also	regulates  trade  orcommerce  and  therefore falls	within	the  above-mentioneditems of List 11 and would, to that extent, be ultra  vires.It  was contended that the pith and substance of  a  statutemay  cover  two	 fields and in support	re  -lied  upon	 thefollowing  observation	of Mahajan, C.J.,  in  Cooverjee  B.Bharucha   v.	The  Excise  Commissioner  and	 The   ChiefCommissioner Ajmer & Ors. (1):" The pith and substance of the regulation is that it raisesexcise revenue by imposing duties on liquor and intoxicatingdrugs by different methods and it also regulates the import,export,	 transport,  manufacture,  sale	 and  possession  ofintoxicating liquors."But  that  case did not raise the  question  of	 legislativecompetence ; the point for decision was whether the  statutethere  impugned,  infringed the right to carry on  trade  inliquor	and  also whether the auction money was a fee  or  atax.   It was in that connection that the observation  abovequoted was made.It was also argued that if the purpose and object of the Actis  levying of duty of excise then it could not provide	 forregulation of trade and reliance was(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 873, 877, 882.368placed on King v. Barger (1) where by a majority it was heldthat  the question in substance was not an exercise  of	 thepower  of  taxation  and if it was,  the  statute  would  beinvalid	 as  being  in	contravention  of   S.	55  'of	 theConstitution  Act of Australia.	 The minority, however,	 wasof  the opinion that the reserved powers of the	 States	 arethose which remain after full effect was given to the powersgranted to the Commonwealth.In support of the argument that the Act did not only  relateto  levying  of	 excise duties	but  also  regulated  trade,reference  was made to rr. 174 to 182 of the Central  ExciseRules  which relate to licensing.  Particular  reliance	 wasplaced on r. 176(2) imposing a licence fee which in the caseof  tobacco is as much as Rs' 100.  Reference was also	madeto  r.	181 which deals with revocation	 and  suspension  oflicences and empowers the Licensing Department to revoke  orsuspend a licence under certain circumstances.	The rule  isas follows:-R.   181 " (1) Any licence granted under. these Rules may berevoked	 or  suspended	by the licensing  authority  if	 theholder,	 or  any  person in his employ,	 is  found  to	havecommitted a breach of the conditions thereof, or any of	 theprovisions of the Act or these Rules (or has been  convictedof an offence under s. 161, read with s. 109 or with s.	 116of the Indian Penal Code).(2)............................(3)..............................Counsel	 then drew our attention to r. 182 which relates  tomatches	 Only  but which places limitation on the  issue  oflicences for the manufacture of matches.The next set of Rules which were relied upon were rr. 140 to148  in	 regard to warehousing and then	 our  attention	 wasdrawn to rr. 210 to 215 relating to penalties,	confiscationand  appeals.  In regard to the latter set of Rules  it	 wassubmitted that they laid down no procedure and did not	makeany provision for issuing of notice to licensees or  hearingthem or their witnesses before imposing penalties.  From allthis(1)  (1908) 6 C.L.R. 41.			    369the conclusion which counsel wished us to draw was that	 theAct read with Rules shows that the pith and substance is notmerely	levying	 an excise duty but the	 possession  of	 andtrade  in  tobacco  was also  regulated	 and  therefore	 thesubject	 matter of the Act did not fall	 exclusively  in thelegislative field covered by List 1 but it trenched upon theprovincial  field  of legislation and must be held  to	fallunder List 11 also.In  every  case	 where	the  legislative  competence  of   alegislature   in  regard  to  a	 particular   enactment	  ischallenged  with  reference to the entries  in	the  variouslists  it is necessary to examine the pith and substance  ofthe Act and if the matter comes substantially within an itemin the Central List it is not deemed to come within an entryin the Provincial list even though "the classes of  subjectslooked	at singly overlap in many respects".  It  is  withinthe  competence	 of the Central legislature to	provide	 formatters	 which may otherwise fall within the  competence  ofthe   Provincial   legislature	if  they   are	 necessarilyincidental   to	  effective  legislation  by   the   Centrallegislature on a subject of legislation expressly within itspower.	 Attorney-General for Canada  v.  Attorney-General,'for  British  Columbia (1); Attorney-General for  Canada  v.Attorney-General  for Quebec (2).  In Gallagher v. Lynn	 (3)it was held that if the true nature and character of an	 Actis to protect the health of the inhabitants then even thoughit  may	 incidentally affect trade, it is not enacted  "  inrespect of " trade.  Moreover it is a fundamental  principleof  constitutional  law	 that everything  necessary  to	 theexercise, of a power is included in the grant of the  power.Edward Mills Co. Ltd. v. The State of Ajmer (4).The  item which falls for consideration in the present	caseis No. 45 of List 1 which is as follows:" Duties of excise on tobacco and other good,%	manufacturedor produced in India except(a)  alcoholic liquors for human consumption;(b)  opium,  Indian  hemp  and	other  narcotic	 drugs	 andnarcotics; non-narcotic drugs;(1)  [1930] A.C. 111, 118.(2)  [1947] A.C. 33, 43.(3)  [1937] A.C. 863.(4)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 735, 749.370(c)  medical and toilet preparations containing alcohol,  orany substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this entry."The  other  items  which have to  be  considered  are  itemsNos. 27, 29 and 31 of List 11 which are as follows :-Item 27.  "Trade and commerce within the Province ;  marketsand fairs; money lending and money lenders."Item  29.   "Production, supply and distribution  of  goods;development of industries, subject to the provisions in List1  with	 respect to the development  of	 certain  industriesunder Federal control."The question for decision is whether the Act in question  isa  law with respect to the matters enumerated in item 45  ofList  1	 or to the matters enumerated in item 27 and  29  ofList  11.   In other words does it, in pith  and  substance,relate	to duties of excise on tobacco as contained in	item45  or it falls within the boundaries of items 27 and 29  ofthe  provincial list and if it falls within the	 former,  isits  validity affected by its incidental trespass  into	 theterritory  reserved  for  provincial  legislation.   In	 theinterpretation	of  the	 scope of  these  items	 the  widestpossible amplitude must be given to the words used and	eachgeneral	 word  must  be	 held  to  extend  to  ancillary  orsubsidiary   matters  which  can  fairly  be  said   to	  becomprehended  in it.  United Provinces v.Mst. Atiqa Begum  &Ors.  (1);  Navinchandra  Mafatlal  v.The  Commissioner	  ofIncometax (2); The State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley & Co.(5).  In Subramanyan Chettiar v. Muthuswamy Goundan (4)	 SirMaurice	 Gwyer,	 C.J.,	dealing	 with  items  in  the  Listsobserved:"  It  must  inevitably	 happen	 from  time  to	 time	thatlegislation, though purporting to deal with a subject in onelist,  touches	also on a subject in another list,  and	 thedifferent  provisions  of the enactment may  be	 so  closelyintertwined  that  blind  adherence  to	 a  strictly  verbalinterpretation	would result in a large number	of  statutesbeing declared invalid because(1)  [1940] F.C.R. 111.(2)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 829, 833, 836.(3)  [1959] S.C.R. 379, 391, 393.(4)  [1940] F.C.R. 188, 201.			    371the Legislature enacting them may appear to have  legislatedin a forbidden sphere."We  agree  as  did  the	 Privy	Council	 in  Prafulla  KumarMukherjee  and	Ors. v. Bank of Commerce Ltd. (1)  and	thisCourt did in State of Rajasihan v. G. Chawla (2) that	thispassage correctly describes the ground on which the rule  isfounded	 and  in  our  opinion it is  a	 correct  method  ofinterpreting  the  words of the various items in  the  Listsread with s. 100 of the Constitution Act.  Hidayatullah, J.,in State of Rajasthan v. G. Chawla(2) said at p. 546 :-" It is equally well-settled that the power to legislate  ona  topic  of  legislation  carries  with  it  the  power  tolegislate  on  an ancillary matter which can be said  to  bereasonably included in the power given."We now proceed to determine the true nature and character orthe  pith and substance of the Act.  It is a fiscal  measureto  levy  and  realise	duty  on  tobacco.   The  method  ofrealising duty must be left to the wisdom of the legislaturetaking	each  individual  trade and  its  peculiarities	 anddifficulties which arise in that matter.  Various provisionsof  the Act and the Rules show that the authorities  are  onthe  track  of the movement of tobacco from the time  it  isgrown to the time it is manufactured and sold in the  marketand  the  various provisions of the Act and the	 Rules	madethereunder  have been considered necessary for	effectuatingthe  purpose of the Act.  Rules made under the Act also	 aredirected  for achieving the same objective.  Chapter  IV  inthe  Rules  deals  with unmanufactured	products.   Rule  15therein	 requires  the	growers to  make  a  declaration  inrespect of all land upon which tobacco is to be grown.	Rule17  which  requires curing to be done on  the  declared	 andapproved  premises  is also a step in  the  same  direction.Under  Rule 18 a security can be demanded from a grower	 andcurer,	Rules  19, 20 and 21 deal with	liability  to  duty,exemption from duty of certain kinds of tobacco for personaluse, books to be kept by growers and curers and the(1) [1947] L.R. 74 I.A. 23, 41.(2) A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 544.	  372manner of keeping the entries in the books.Rule	 31  dealswith transport of tobacco from thegrower to   the  premisesof a curer and from the premises of a curer   to a public ora  private warehouse.  Chapter V of the	   rules  deals withmanufactured  tobacco  and  how	 that  is  to  be  kept	  inwarehouses.  Similarly at every stage	whether the  tobaccois in unmanufactured stage or	   manufactured	       stageprovisions have been made in the Rules to keep a watch	overthe  movement  of  tobacco. All these Rules  show  that	 theobject of the Act is to make collection of excise duties  ontobacco	 effective  and	 the  levying  of  fees	 is  only  acollection  of money for the upkeep of supervision over	 themovement  of  tobacco for the purpose of excise	 duty.	 Thesystem	 of  licensing	of  bonded  warehouses	was   alwaysconsidered  to be a part of effective control of evasion  oftax  in	 England  and  Parliament must	be  deemed  to	havecontemplated  the  inclusion of this  power.   Besides,	 thelevying	 of  licence  fees is itself  a	 form  of  taxation.Cooverji B. Bharucha v. The Excise Commissioner of Ajmer (1)and would in this case be within the legislative  competenceof  the Central legislature whose powers of taxation  shouldnot be restricted so as to exclude the raising of revenue byimposing  licensing fees. In the State of Madras  v.  GannonDunkerley  & Co. (2) the following passage from	 the  BrokenHill South Ltd. v.  Commmissioner of Taxation (N.S. W.) (3):" In any investigation of the constitutional powers of thesegreat  Dominion legislatures, it is not proper that a  Courtshould	deny  to  such a legislature the  right	 of  solvingtaxation  problems unfettered by a priori  legal  categorieswhich often derive from the exercise of legislative power inthe  same constitutional writ " was quoted with approval  byVenkatarama  Aiyar,  J.,  and  if it  is  only	a  fee,	 itsconstitutionality  cannot be challenged because of  item  69relating  to  fees  on matters in List 1.  Counsel  for	 thepetitioner  relied  upon  r. 181.  This	 rule  may  have  anindirect effect of depriving an owner of a bonded  warehousefrom the(1)  [1954]  S.C.R. 873, 877, 822.  (2) [1959]	S.C.R.	379,391, 393.(3) (1936-37) 56 C.L.R. 337, 379.373privilege of keeping such a warehouse but that does not meanthat  the object and purpose of the Act is  not	 imposition,collection and realisation of duty of excise.  This rule  isa  means  of making the realisation of	duty  effective	 andnecessarily   incidental   to  effectual   legislation	 forcollection   of	 duties.  Attorney-General  for	 Canada	  v.Attorney-General  for British Columbia (1).  Looking at	 thescheme	of the Act, its object and purpose, its true  natureand  character and the pith and substance the conclusion  isinevitable   that  the	Act  was  within   the	 legislativecompetence of the Central legislature and although there maybe   certain  matters  otherwise  within   the	 legislativecompetence   of	  the  provincial   legislature	  they	 arenecessarily  incidental	 to  effective	legislation  by	 theCentral legislature.  The various provisions of the Act	 andthe Rules made thereunder were, in our opinion,	 essentiallyconnected  with the levying & collection of excise duty	 andin  its true nature and character the Act remains  one	thatfalls  under item 45 of List 1 and the incidental  trenchingupon the provincial field of items 27 or 29 would not affectits constitutionality because the extent of invasion of	 theprovincial field may be a circumstance to determine the truepith and substance but once that question is determined	 theAct, in our opinion, would fall on the side of Central fieldand  not  that	of the	provincial  field.   Prafulla  KumarMukherjee v. Bank of Commerce Ltd. (").It  was	 then contended that the restrictions  imposed	wereunreasonable  and  therefore not saved by Art.	19(6).	 Thebasis  of this argument was that there is no procedure	laiddown  in  the  provisions  for	levying	 penalties  nor	 anyprovision  made	 for notice or the taking  of  evidence	 andpower of confiscation was given to persons who could not  betermed	unbiased.  If the tribunal is to act  judicially  itmust  confirm to the principles of natural justice  of	audialteram	 partem and there is no dispute that in the  instantcase there was no breach of this rule.	Not only this, thereis  a  right of appeal and a revision is also  provided	 andboth these remedies the petitioner availed himself of.	The(1)  [1930] A.C. 111, 118.48(2) [1947] L.R. 74 I.A. 23, 41,374argument of unreasonable restriction because of this  groundmust  also fail.Lastly,	 it  was contended that the two main  orders  passedwere  ultra vires because in the first case  the  petitionerwas  asked  to	deposit the penalty before  his	  appeal  orrevision could be heard and reliance was     placed	  onHimmatlal Harilal Mehta v. The State of	     Madhya  Pradesh(1).   But  it is difficult to see how	that  case  applies.There was no illegal imposition on the petitioner nor is  itshown  that anything was threatened to be  realised  withoutthe  authority	of  law.   In regard  to  the  second  orderMohammad Satar had ceased to be the petitioner's surety	 andtherefore  in terms of the proviso to r. 140 of	 the  ExciseRules which was as follows :-"  Provided  that  in  the event  of  death,  insolvency  orinefficiency  of the surety or where the amount of the	bondis inadequate, the collector may in his discretion demand  afresh bond; and may, if the security furnished for a bond isnot adequate, demand additional security."The  Collector was acting within his powers if he asked	 forthe  deposit of cash security of Rs. 10,000.  This is not  amatter	with  which  we can, in the  circumstances  of	thiscase,' interfere.  It was also urged that the orders  passedwere  mala  fide  but no such allegation  was  made  in	 thepetition nor is it shown as to why the orders are mala fide.In  our	 opinion this petition is without substance  and  istherefore dismissed with costs.Petition dismissed.(1) [1954] S.C.R. 1122.375