PETITIONER:M/S.  DIWAN SUGAR & GENERAL MILLS (PRIVATE) LTD.  AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:23/01/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  626		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 123 CITATOR INFO : R	    1974 SC 366	 (55) RF	    1981 SC 873	 (18,26)ACT:       SugarControl--Notification fixing price ex-factory-Legality       -Restrictions	 on    right	to    trade-Discrimination-       Sugar(Control) Order, 1955, cl. 5-Essential Commodities Act,       1955 (10 of 1955), s.	5-Constitution of India, Arts.	14,       19(1)(g).HEADNOTE:In  exercise of the powers under S. 3 Of the Essential	Com-modities  Act, 1955, and under cl. 5 of the Sugar  (Control)Order,	1955, the Government of India issued a	notificationdated  July 30, 1958, fixing the ex-factory price per  maundof sugar produced in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and North  Bihar.The petitioners challenged the legality of the	notificationon the grounds (1) that it was beyond the ambit of authorityconferred  on  the  Central Government under  s.  3  of	 theEssential  Commodities Act, 955, and clause 5 Of  the  Sugar(Control) Order, 1955, and that, in any case, it was bad  asit  could  not	subserve the purposes of  the  Act  ensuringequitable distribution of the commodity to the consumer at afair price, (2) that the Act and the Order did not authorisethe  Central Government to fix ex-factory prices,  and,,  inany  case,  the notification failed to fix  prices  for	 theultimate  consumer,  (3)  that it  imposed  an	unreasonablerestriction  on	 the  right to trade  under  Art.  10(1)(g),inasmuch as it fixed the price arbitrarily, and there was noreasonable  safeguard  against the abuse of power,  and	 (4)that  it  was  discriminatory because  it  fixed  ex-factoryprices only for factories in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and NorthBihar  and  not for factories in other parts  of  India	 andthere  was no reasonable classification discernible  on	 anyintelligible  differentia on the basis of which	 prices	 hadbeen controlled in certain regions only.Held,  (1) The notification dated July 30, 1958,  is  withinthe authority conferred on the Central Government by S. 3 Ofthe Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and cl. 5 of the  Sugar(Control) Order,1955.(2)  Section  3	 of the Act which provides  for	 control  ofprice  is very general in terms and authorises	the  CentralGovernment  to	fix the ex-factory price  of  sugar  withoutfixing	the  wholesale	or retail prices;  and,	 since	fairprices for the consumer are ensured by fixing the ex-factoryprice,	the notification in question subserves the  purposesof the Act, and is valid.(3)  Clause 5 of the Sugar (Control) Order, 1955, lays	downthe  factors  which have to be taken into  consideration  infixing	prices, and as the prices were fixed  in  accordancetherewith, the124action	taken  by the Government in the	 -interests  of	 thegeneral public could not be challenged on the ground that itwas  an	 unreasonable restriction on the right to  carry  ontrade under Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.(4)  Though under the notification prices are fixed for fac-tories	only  in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and North  Bihar,  ineffect, they are fixed for the whole of India, as the  otherStates are deficit ; consequently, the notification  broughtabout no discrimination between different regions.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition No. 134 of 1958.Writ Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of  Indiafor the Enforcement of Fundamental Rights.N.   C. Chatterjee, K. P. Mukherjee, P. D. Himatsinghka	 andB. P. Maheshwari, for the petitioners.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and  R.H. Dhebar, for the respondent.K.   P. Khaitan, K. P. Mukherjee and B. P. Maheshwari, forInterveners 1 to 10.G.   S. Pathak, K. P. Mukherjee and B. P. Maheshwari,  forInterveners 11 to 13.1959.  January 23.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby ,WANCHOO, J.-This petition under Art. 32 of the	Constitutionchallenges  the legality of the notification dated July	 30,1958, (hereinafter called the impugned notification), issuedby  the Government of India fixing the ex-factory price	 permaund  of sugar produced in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and  NorthBihar.	 It  has been supported by two sets  of	 intervenersconsisting  of	sugar factories in these areas who  did	 notjoin the petition.The   case  of	the  petitioners  is  that   the   EssentialCommodities  Act, 1955 (X-of 1955). (hereinafter called	 theAct),  was passed by Parliament in 1955, for the control  ofthe  production, supply and distribution of, and  trade	 andcommerce in, certain commodities, which included sugar.	  Bys. 3 of the Act, the Central Government was given the power,if  it was of opinion that it was necessary or expedient  soto  do	for  maintaining  or  increasing  supplies  of	 anyessential   commodity  or-  for	 securing  their   equitabledistribution and125availability  at  fair	prices,	 to  provide  by  order	 forregulating   or	 prohibiting  the  production,	supply	 anddistribution   thereof	and  trade  and	 commerce   therein.Section	 3(2)  further provided inter alia  for	 controlling-the price at which any essential commodity might be  boughtor   sold.   In	 exercise  of  these  powers,  the   CentralGovernment  promulgated	 the Sugar  (Control)  Order,  1955,(hereinafter called the Order), on August 27, 1955.   Clause5  of  the Order gave power to the  Central  Government,  bynotification  in the Official Gazette, to fix the  price  orthe  maximum  price  at which any sugar	 might	be  &old  ordelivered, and different prices might be fixed for differentareas factories or different types or grades of sugar.	Suchprice  or maximum price had to be fixed with due  regard  tovarious	 factors, with which we shall deal later.   On	June27,  1958,  the	 Central Government  promulgated  the  SugarExport Promotion Ordinance, No. V of 1958, empowering it  toappoint an export agency for carrying out the work of buyingsugar in the Indian market and exporting the same to foreignmarkets	 and fixing the quantity of sugar for  export.	 TheCentral Government was also authorised by that Ordinance  tofix quotas apportioning the quantity of sugar to be suppliedby  each  factory for export and levy an  additional  exciseduty at the rate of Rs. 17 per maund on any factory  failingto deliver its quota of sugar for export.  On the same	day,three  notifications were issued: (i) fixing 50,000 tons  ofsugar as the quantity to be exported out of India during theperiod	ending October 31, 1958, (2) appointing	 the  IndianSugar Mills Association, Calcutta, as the export agency, and(3)   delegating  the  powers  conferred  on   the   CentralGovernment  to	the Chief Director of Sugar  and  Vanaspati,Ministry  of Food and Agriculture also.	 Then  followed	 theimpugned  notification	fixing ex-factory  prices  of  sugarproduced by the factories in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and NorthBihar.	It is being challenged on the ground that the  pricefixed  is  considerably	 below the cost	 of  production	 andignores various factors affecting the cost of production anddistribution  of sugar including charges incidental to	saleand126distribution.  The impugned notification is also attacked onthe  ground  that  it did not fix any  price  at  which	 thepersons	 purchasing sugar from the mills would sell  it,  sothat it was open to the middleman who bought sugar from	 thefactories   to	 sell  it  at  any  price,   thus   creatingdiscrimination	between factories and factories and  betweenthe producers selling sugar and the middlemen who buy  sugarselling	 the  same in their turn.  It is also  alleged	thatfixing	of  the price was arbitrary and did  not  take	intoaccount the cost of production of a large number of units inthe  country  and did not provide for a fair  and  equitabledistribution  of sugar in the country at a price in any	 wayrelated	 to the price at which the factories were  compelledto  sell  their	 products.   Consequently,  the	 petitionersprayed	for an appropriate order, direction or writ  in	 thenature	of  mandamus or any other writ	quashing  the  Sugar(Control)  Order, 1955, and all orders made in pursuance  ofit including the impugned notification.The  petition has been, opposed by the	Central	 Government.It  is contended -on their behalf that the entire object  offixing the price of sugar was (a) to make it available at  areasonable price to the consumer, and (b) to ensure adequateand  smooth flow and supply of sugar which is  an  essentialcommodity  for	the life of the people to all parts  of	 thecountry according to their needs and requirements,  checkingthe  speculative tendency of the market and  destroying	 thecreation of an artificial shortage by unscrupulous  persons.Prices of sugar were first put under control as far back  as1942  and  this control continued up to 1947,  when  it	 waswithdrawn on December 8, 1947.	It was, however' found	thatinternal prices were raised during the de-control period  onthe pretext of subsidizing export, which never materialised.In  consequence,, control was again imposed on September  2,1949;  but  it was lifted in- 1952, when it was	 found	thatthere was sufficient stock available at the end of the 1951-52 season.  In 1953-54, however, production fell and controlhad  again to be imposed for that season.  It was,  however,lifted a year later.  In November 1956127there  was a considerable surplus of sugar and	the  CentralGovernment  permitted export of 1.53 lakh of metric tons  in1957.	The Central Government was again approached in	1958to  make  the  export of sugar a permanent  feature  and  itagreed to allow export during 1958 in view of the carry overfrom  the  previous  season and	 also  for  earning  foreignexchange  in  the interest of the country.   Therefore,	 theCentral	 Government promulgated the Sugar  Export  PromotionOrdinance,  No.	 V of 1958, on June 27, 1958.  But  as	thisOrdinance  was expected, a tendency developed 'in the  sugarindustry  to push up prices after the month of	April  1958.As  a  result of this tendency, prices went up	by  about  arupee per maund in May and June 1958, and it was feared thatthey  might  go up further in view of the quota	 for  exportannounced  on June 27, 1958.  In view of this  apprehension,the  industry  assured Government that the  sugar  factorieswould  offer to sell their released stocks freely at  pricesprevalent  before the export policy was announced, i.e.,  inthe  week before June 27, 1958.	 In spite, however, of	thisassurance,  there  was a general rise in prices	 during	 thefour  weeks preceding the impugned notification.  This	risewas particularly marked in Northern India.  It was in  thesecircumstances  that  the Government decided to	control	 ex-factory	 prices of sugar in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and  NorthBihar.	 The  Government  took	all  relevant  factors	intoaccount in fixing the price.  This was done in the  interestof the general public in order that sugar might be availableat  fair prices.  As Uttar Pradesh and North Bihar  are	 themain  surplus  areas  and  feed the  deficit  areas  of	 thecountry,  it was not necessary to control prices  elsewhere;nor was it necessary to control prices beyond the ex-factorystage as the prices in the whole. sale or the retail marketsare  governed  by  ex-factory  prices.	 There	was  in	 thecircumstances	no   question  of  discrimination   or	 anyunreasonable restriction on carrying on trade in sugar.	 TheGovernment did not admit that the price fixed was below	 thecost  of production generally.	Consequently, it was  prayedthat the petition should be dismissed.128the  interveners  raise the following points in	 support  oftheir  contention that the impugned notification is  illegaland invalid(1)  (a)  The impugned notification is beyond the  ambit  ofauthority conferred on the Central Government under s. 3  ofthe Act and clause 5 of the Order, and in any case it is badas  it	cannot	possibly subserve the purposes	of  the	 Actensuring  equitable  distribution of the  commodity  to	 theconsumer at a fair price;(b) The impugned notification merely fixes ex-factory pricesand  is	 bad, firstly, on the ground that the  Act  and	 theOrder  do  not authorise the Central Government to  fix	 ex-factory	 prices, and, secondly, on the ground that  even  ifex-factory  prices can be Axed under the Act and the  Order,the  impugned notification is still bad as it fails  to	 fixprices	for the ultimate consumer which must be	 done  underthe Act;(2)  The  impugned  notification  imposes  an	unreasonablerestriction on the right to trade under Article 19 (1)	(g),inasmuch  as  (i) it compels factories to sell	sugar  at  aloss,  (ii) it fixes the price arbitrarily, and (iii)  thereis  no reasonable safeguard against the, abuse of power	 andno provision for a check by way of appeal or otherwise;(3)  The  impugned  notification is bad inasmuch  as  it  isdiscriminatory	because it fixes ex-factory prices only	 forfactories  in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and North Bihar and	 notfor  factories	in  other parts of India  and  there  is  noreasonable  classification discernible on  any	intelligibledifferentia  on	 the  basis  of	 which	prices	'have	beencontrolled in certain regions only.Re. (1) (a).The  Act  deals with essential commodities which  have	beendefined therein.  The preamble shows that it has been passedin  the interest of the general, public for the	 control  ofthe  production,  supply and distribution of and  trade	 andcommerce  in,  certain commodities.  Section 3	of  the	 Actgives  power to the Central Government to pass orders  underthe  Act  if  it  is necessary or expedient  so	 to  do	 formaintaining   or  increasing  supplies	of   any   essentialcommodity or for securing   129their  equitable  distribution	and  availability  at	fairprices.	  No attack has been made on the vires of  the	Act;but  the vires of the Order relating to sugar  passed  underthe  Act  and-	particularly of	 the  impugned	notificationfixing ex-factory prices in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and  NorthBihar  have been attacked.  The Order in our opinion  merelycarries out the purposes of the Act and cl. 5 thereof  givesthe ambit of the powers of the Central Government in  fixingprices, and lays down the manner in which it should be	doneand the factors which should be taken into consideration  indoing so.  Though in the petition, the Order was attacked onthe   ground  that  it	gave  'uncontrolled,  unguided	 andunfettered' power to the executive and imposed	unreasonablerestrictions  on the right to carry on trade,  no  argumentswere  addressed to us on the constitutionality of the  Orderitself.	  We are in this case concerned only with that	partof the Order which deals with the fixation of price.  Clause5  provides for factors that the Government will  take	intoaccount in fixing prices and these are: (i) price or minimumprice  fixed for sugarcane, (ii) manufacturing	cost,  (iii)taxes, (iv) reasonable margin of profit for producer  and/ortrade,	and (v) any incidental charges.	 It is	amply  clearfrom  this  that  price is to be  fixed	 after	taking	intoaccount	  all	reasonable  factors  which   go	  into	 theconsideration of price fixation.- In view of this it  cannotbe  said  that the Order gives 'uncontrolled,  unguided	 andunfettered'   power   to  the  executive   to	fix   pricesarbitrarily.   We shall proceed therefore on the basis	thatthe Act and the Order so far as they are concerned with	 thefixation of price are valid.This  brings  us  to  the  question  whether  the   impugnednotification  is  beyond  the  authority  conferred  on	 theCentral	 Government by s. 3 of the Act and clause 5  of	 theOrder.' Reading s. 3 of the Act with the preamble, it  wouldbe  obvious  that the object of the Act is  to	provide	 forcontrol of the production, supply and distribution of, tradeand  commerce in, essential commodities in the interests  ofthe general public, so that the17130supplies of such commodities may be maintained or increased,their  equitable  distribution	secured	 and  they  may	  beavailable to the general public at fair prices.	 Consideringthe  history of sugar control and the trends which  appearedin  the market from April, 1958, it cannot possibly be	saidthat  the  impugned  notification  does	 not  subserve	 thepurposes  of  the Act and the Order.  There  can  be  littledoubt  that fixation of ex-factory prices of sugar mills  inthe main surplus areas would have the effect of	 stabilisingsugar prices for the general public, which is the  consumer,at a fair level and make sugar available at fair prices.  Inthe affidavit filed on behalf of the Government it is statedthat  as  a result of this action prices have come  down  tonormal	levels.	  This is demonstrable -proof, if  such	 wasneeded,	  that	the  impugned  notification  subserves	 thepurposes of the Act.  This contention, therefore, fails.Re. (1) (b).The  argument under this head is two-fold.  It is said	thatin the first instance' s. 3 of the Act requires that  pricesfor the consumer only should be fixed. The object of s. 3 isundoubtedly  to secure essential commodities at fair  pricesfor  the  general public, i.e., the consumer.  It  is  well-known that there are three kinds of prices prevalent in	 themarket for a commodity like sugar, namely, ex-factory price,wholesale  price and retail price.  It is the last that	 theconsumer  has to pay.  It is urged that when s.	 3  providesfor availability of essential commodities at fair prices  tothe general public it means that price can only be fixed  atthe   stage  where  the	 consumer  is  the  purchaser.	  Inparticular, our attention was invited to clause (c) of s.  3(2),  which  provides  for control of  price  at  which	 anyessential commodity may be bought or sold.  Now there is  nodoubt  that  the object of the Act is  to  secure  essentialcommodities  for the consumer, i.e., the general public,  atfair  prices;  but it does not follow from  this  that	thisobject	can only be achieved if retail prices are fixed	 andthat  there is no other way of achieving it.  In  any  case,clause (c) of s. 3 (2) which speaks specifically of  controlof price is very general131in  terms.  It provides for fixation of price at  which	 anyessential  commodity  may be bought or sold ;  it  does	 notspecify	 the  stage  at which the  price  should  be  fixed.Therefore, we are of opinion that the control provided underclause (c) of s. 3 (2) is control at any of the three stagesmentioned  above.   There  is  no reason  to  cut  down	 thegenerality  of	the words used in clause (c) so as  to	makethem  applicable only to the last stage, namely, the  retailprice.	  This	contention,  therefore,	 that  s.   3	onlyauthorises  the Central Government to fix the retail  price,i.e., the price for the consumer, fails.It  is	then urged that even if the power is  there  to	 fixprices	at all stages, the Act requires that the price	mustbe fixed for the consumer, whether it is fixed at an earlierstage  or not.	There are no words in s. 3 (1) or s.  3	 (2)(c) of the Act, which compel such an interpretation.  It  istrue that the object of the Act is to ensure fair prices forthe  consumer;	but if fair prices for the consumer  can  beensured	 by fixing the ex-factory price, there is no  reasonwhy the Government should go on also to fix the wholesale orretail	price.	 It  is well-known that	 the  wholesale	 andretail prices depend upon ex-factory price, in the case of acommodity like sugar.  Therefore if fixation of price at theex-factory  level is enough to ensure a fair price  for	 theconsumer,  there is no reason why the Government should	 notstop  at  that and should go on also to	 fix  wholesale	 andretail prices.	It is urged that the middleman who buys fromthe factory is not controlled and he can sell at any  price;and,  therefore, the object of the Act may not be  achieved.Theoretically  this may be so and a middleman may abuse	 hisposition.   If	he  does  so, we  have	no  doubt  that	 theGovernment  will  intervene  as it has ample  power  to	 fixwholesale  and	retail prices also.  But if the	 purpose  isserved	by  merely fixing the ex-factory price,	 we  see  noreason	why  the Government must fix  wholesale	 and  retailprices also.  The petitioners have not even alleged that  asa   matter  of	fact  the  wholesalers	and  retailers	 areprofiteering  and  making  it impossible  for  sugar  to  beavailable for the general public at a fair132price.	 In the circumstances, it was not necessary in	factfor  the Government to fix wholesale or retail	prices.	  Inlaw,  we see no warrant for holding that under s. 3 (1)	 ands.  3 (2) (c) of the Act, the Government must not  only	 fixex-factory  prices  but also wholesale	and  retail  prices.What  prices  the  Government will  fix	 depend	 upon  theirestimate  of the situation, which would serve the object  ofthe  Act.   We are, therefore, of opinion that there  is  noforce in this contention either.Re. (2).The  contention	 under	this  head  is	that  the   impugnednotification is invalid as it is an unreasonable restrictionon  the petitioners' right to carry on trade under  Art.  19(1)  (g).  The argument is urged in three ways; namely,	 (i)factories  are being compelled to sell at below the cost  ofproduction,  (ii)  the price fixed is arbitrary,  and  (iii)there is no safeguard Against abuse of power.  The  argumentthat the factories are being compelled to sell at below	 thecost of production is put in two ways.	It is said that	 thepress note issued by the Government on July 30, 1958,  showsthat  the Government was of the view that prices  should  bepegged at the level at which they were in the week precedingJune 27, 1958, and inasmuch as they fixed prices below	thatlevel or even below the level at which they were at the	 endof May, 1958, the prices were below the cost of	 production.We must say that this is a complete misunderstanding of	 thepress note of July 30, 1958.  All that that press note	saidwas  that  prices had risen even before June  27,  1958,  inexpectation  of	 a  large  export  quota.   Thereafter,	 theGovernment  were assured by the industry that  prices  wouldnot rise further after June 27 ; but this assurance was	 notkept  and prices went up further by one rupee per  maund  bythe  end  of July.  It was in these circumstances  that	 theGovernment intervened.	There was, however, no commitment inthis  press note by the Government that if  they  intervenedthey  would fix prices at what they were either in the	weekbefore	June  27 1958, or in the last week of  May;  nor  isthere anything in the press note to suggest that the133prices	prevalent  on either of these two days	were  properprices and that any price below them would not even meet thecost of production.  The press, note had nothing to do	withthe cost of production; nor were the Government bound to fixthe  prices  at the level of the end of June or the  end  ofMay.   When they eventually decided to intervene at the	 endof July, they were free to take action under the Act and theOrder  and  so long as the prices fixed were  in  accordancetherewith, the action could not be challenged on the  groundthat  it  was an unreasonable restriction on  the  right  tocarry on trade under Art. 19 (1) (g).  Clause 5 of the Orderlays   down  the  factors  which  have	to  be	taken	intoconsideration in fixing prices.	 These factors include amongother things a reasonable margin of profit for the  producerand/or	trade and any incidental charges.  This was kept  inmind  when prices were fixed by the  impugned  notification.The petitioners have certainly filed with their affidavit  aschedule giving the cost of production.	 According to  them,their  cost  of production is above the price fixed  by	 theimpugned notification.	This schedule has not been  admittedby  the	 Government.  We see no reason to  accept  the	ipsedixit  of  the petitioners as to their cost  of	 production.The  sugar crushing season begins about the end	 of  Octoberand finishes about the end of May, so that fixation of pricein July, 1958, would be on the basis of the 1957-58  season.Market	prices	were available to the Government  when	theyfixed the prices by the impugned notification.	In the	caseof the three States' namely, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and NorthBihar,	the prices fixed by the impugned  notification	wereabove  the  prices prevalent in the beginning of  April	 andalso above the average prices for the month of April, thoughin  the:  case of Punjab and West Uttar	 Pradesh  they	wereslightly  below	 the  prices of the 30th  of  April.   Theseprices were prevalent in the free market and must  certainlyhave  taken  account  of a fair margin	of  profit  for	 theproducer, though in the case of an individual factory due tofactors for which the producer might himself be responsible,the cost of production might have been a little more.134Therefore,  the	 prices	 fixed	by  the	 Government  by	 theimpugned  notification	can in no circumstances be  said  tohave  been proved to be below the cost of  production.	 Thepetitioners were also not unaware of this state of  affairs,and  therefore, in the rejoinder came out with the story  ofdistress  sales	 by  the  mills in the	early  part  of	 thecrushing season.  We are not impressed by this story, and inany  case  there could hardly be any  question	of  distresssales in April when the crushing season was almost coming toan end.	 We see therefore no reason to hold that the  pricesfixed  were below the cost of production and were  thereforean  unreasonable  restriction on the petitioners'  right  tocarry  on trade under Art. 19(1)(g).  This also disposes  ofthe second ground of argument under this Head, namely,	thatthe prices were arbitrary.  All relevant factors  prescribedunder  el.  5  of  the	Order  were  apparently	 taken	intoconsideration and the prices fixed themselves show that theywere not arbitrary.  The last argument in this connection isthat  there is no reasonable safeguard against the abuse  ofpower and no check by way of appeal or otherwise is providedagainst	 the order of the Central Government.  It is  enoughto  say	 that  we are here dealing with	 the  power  of	 theCentral	 Government  to fix prices in the interests  of	 thegeneral	 public.   It is in these  circumstances  absurd  toexpect	that there would be some provision by way of  appealor  otherwise against this power of the Central	 Government.So long as the Central Government exercises its power in themanner provided by the Act and the Order-and this is what itappears	 to have done-, it cannot be said that	any  furthersafeguard  is  necessary  in  the  form	 of  an	 appeal	  orotherwise.  The safeguards are to be found in el. 5  itself,namely, that the Central Government must give  considerationto the relevant factors mentioned therein before fixing	 theprice,	and thus these factors are a check on the  power  ofthe  Central  Government if it is ever-minded to  abuse	 thepower.	 We  are  therefore of	opinion	 that  the  impugnednotification is not an unreasonable restriction on the peti-tioners' right to carry on trade under Art, 19(1)(g).135Re. (3).said  that price control is imposed on factories in  Punjab,Uttar  Pradesh	and  North  Bihar  and	that  there  is	  noreasonable  basis  for such clasSification  ;  factories  inother  parts of India are left uncontrolled with the  resultthat there is discrimination.  From the material supplied itappears	 that there are 97 sugar factories in Punjab,  UttarPradesh	 and North Bihar while there are 50 sugar  factoriesin  the	 rest of India, of which as many as 18	are  in	 theState  of  Bombay.  In the other States there are  very	 fewfactories.,  the  lowest being in West	Bengal,	 Orissa	 andKerala with one factory each and the highest being in MadhyaPradesh	 with seven factories.	We also understand that	 themajor  part of production of sugar in this country  is	fromthe factories in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and North Bihar.	  Ofthe  97 factories which have been controlled, as many as  90are  in	 Uttar Pradesh and North Bihar and it is  these	 twoareas  which are what are called mainly surplus areas.	 Theprice  of  sugar  in India depends upon	 the  price  of	 thefactories in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.  The contention of theGovernment  is	that as soon as the price is  controlled  inPunjab,	 Uttar Pradesh and Bihar the price for the whole  ofIndia  is  fixed, for other States are	deficit	 and  importsugar  from  these States, particularly	 Uttar	Pradesh	 andNorth  Bihar.  In these circumstances if price is  fixed  inthis area, price all over India is practicalLy fixed, and itis  not	 necessary  to	fix  prices  separately	 so  far  asfactories  in  other  States which are	said  to  be  mainlydeficit,  are  concerned.  In the circumstances	 we  are  ofopinion, that though in form prices are fixed for  factoriesonly  in  Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and North Bihar,  in  effectthey  are fixed for the whole of India, once the  productionof these three regions is controlled.  There is,  therefore,in  our opinion no discrimination in effect by the  fixationof  prices in these three regions.  The argument that  thereis  discrimination  is purely theoretical, in  view  of	 theeconomic  factors which control the price of sugar in,	thiscountry.  Thus in fact there is no discrimination after	 thecontrol of sugar136prices	in these three regions and the contention  that	 thefactories  in the other areas are left free to sell  at	 anyprice	is   specious  and  does  not	merit	a   moment'sconsideration.	 We are therefore of opinion that in  effectthe  impugned notification brought about  no  discriminationbetween different regions or between producers and middlemenin  view  of  what we have said already in Re.	1  (b),	 andconsequently, it is not necessary to consider the last	partof  the	 submission under this head.  There is	in  fact  nodiscrimination	 by  the  impugned  notification  and	thiscontention fails on that ground.There  is  no  force therefore in this petition	 and  it  ishereby dismissed with costs.				  Petition dismissed.