PETITIONER:P.   LAKSHMI REDDY	Vs.RESPONDENT:L. LAKSHMI REDDYDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/12/1956BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1957 AIR  314		  1957 SCR  195ACT:Adverse	 Possession-Possession	of  co-heir,  when  adverse-Ouster-Possession  of  Receiver	 pendente lite,	 if  can  betacked.HEADNOTE:V  died an infant in 1927 and H, an agnatic relation.  fileda,  suit for the recovery of the properties belonging  to  Vwhich were in the possession of third parties, on the groundthat he was the sole nearest male agnate entitled to all theproperties.  During the pendency of the suit a Receiver	 wasappointed  for the properties in February, 1928.   The	suithaving been decreed H obtained possession of the  propertiesfrom  the Receiver on January 20, 1930, and after his  deathin  1936, his nephew, the appellant, got into possession  asHis  heir.  On October 23, 1941, the respondent brought	 thepresent	 suit for the recovery of a one third share  of	 theproperties from the appellant on the footing that he and hisbrother were agnatic relations of V of the same degree as H,that  all  the	three were equal co-heirs of V	and  that  Hobtained the decree and got into possession on behalf of allthe co-heirs.  The appellant resisted the suit and contendedthat the respondent lost his right by the adverse possessionof  H and his successor and that for this purpose  not	onlythe  period from January 20, 1930, to October 23, 1941,	 wasto  be counted, but also the prior period when the  Receiverwas  in possession of the properties during the pendency  ofH's  suit. it was found that-the; respondent's case  that  Hobtained the decree and got possession, from the Receiver onbehalf of the other co-heirs was not true :Held, that the respondent did not lose his right by  adversepossession.  Even assuming that H's possession from  January20,  1930, was adverse and amounted to ouster of  the  otherco-heirs,  such adverse possession was not adequate in	timeto  displace  the  title of the respondent  and	 the  periodduring	which  the Receiver was in possession could  not  beadded, because (1) the Receiver's196possession  could not be tacked on to H's possession,  as  aReceiver is an officer of the Court and is not the agent  ofany  party to the suit and notwithstanding that in  law	 hispossession  is	ultimately  treated  as	 possession  of	 thesuccessful  party on the termination of the suit,  he  couldnot  be	 considered  as the agent of such  party  with'	 theanimus of claiming sole and exclusive title with the view toinitiate adverse possession ; and (2) during the time of theReceiver's  possession the respondent could not sue  H,	 andlimitation could not therefore run against him.The  possession	 of one co-heir is considered,	in  law,  aspossession  of	all the co-heirs and in order  to  establishadverse	 possession  ouster of	the  non-possessing  co-heirshould	be  made  out  and as  between	them  there-must  beevidence  of open assertion of hostile title,  coupled	withexclusive  possession  and enjoyment by one of them  to	 theknowledge of the other so as to constitute ouster.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 178 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedDecember 3, 1951, of the High Court of Judicature at  Madrasin  Second Appeal No. 766 of 1947 against the  decree  datedNovember  19,  1946, of the District Court of  Anantapur  inAppeal	No.  130  of 1945 arising out of  the  decree  datedJanuary	 31,  1945,  of	 the  Court  of	 Subordinate  Judge,Anantapur, in Original Suit No. 10 of 1944.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General of India, P. Ram  Reddy,K. Sundararajan and M. S. K. Aiyangar, for the appellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of India,	 and  K.  R.Chaudhury, for the respondent.1956.	December 5. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyJAGANNADHADAS  J.-The plaintiff in the action out  of  whichthis  appeal  arises brought a suit for declaration  of	 histitle  to a one-third share in the suit properties  and	 forpartition  and	recovery  of  that  share.   The  suit	 wasdismissed  as having been barred by limitation	and  adversepossession.   On  appeal  the District	Judge  reversed	 thedecision and decreed the suit.	The.  High Court  maintainedthe  decree of the District Judge on second  appeal.   Hencethis appeal before us on special			    197leave  by  the	first defendant in the action,	who  is	 theappellant  before us.  The main question that arises in	 theappeal is whether the plaintiff has lost his right to a one-third, share in the suit property by adverse possession.The property in suit belonged to one Venkata Reddy.  He diedan infant on Augutst 25, 1927.	At that time, the propertieswere  in the possession of the matemal uncles of the  fatherof the deceased Venkata Reddy.	One Hanimi Reddy, an agnaticrelation of Venkata Reddy, filed a suit O.S. No. 26 of	1927for recovery of the properties from 'the said matemal unclesand obtained a decree therein on March 15, 1929.  A Receiverwas  appointed for the properties in February, 1928,  duringthe pendency of the suit and presumably the properties	werein his possession.  This appears from the decree which showsthat  it directed the Receiver to deliver possession to	 thesuccessful  plaintiff  in that suit' Hanimi  Reddy  obtainedactual	possession of these properties on January 20,  1930,and continued in possession till he died on August 16, 1936.The  first  defendant  in  the present	action	who  is	 theappellant before us is a son of the brother of Hanimi  Reddyand  came  into possession of all the properties  as  HanimiReddy's	 heir.	The respondent before us is  the  plaintiff.The  present  suit was brought on the  allegation  that	 theplaintiff and the second defendant in the suit, his brother,were agnatic relations of Venkata- Reddy, of the same degreeas  Hanimi Reddy and that all the three were equal  co-heirsof Venkata Reddy and succeeded to his properties, as such-onhis  death.  It was alleged that though Hanimi	Reddy  filedthe  prior  suit and obtained possession of  the  propertiesthereunder,  he	 did  so as one of the	do-heirs,  with	 theconsent	 of the plaintiff and the second defendant and	thathe  was enjoying the properties jointly with  the  plaintiffand  his  brother as tenants-in-common but  that  the  firstdefendant,  who came into possession on the death of  HanimiReddy  denied the title of the plaintiff and his brother  inor  about the year 1940.  The plaint in the  present  actionwas  filed  originally	in the District Munsif	s  Court  onOctober 23, 1941, and was ordered198to  be	returned for presentation; to the  District  Judge'sCourt on November 30, 1942.  It was actually re-presented inthat Court on December 2, 1942.	 One of thequestions  raisedin the suit was that the, suit was, barred by limitation  onthe ground that it must be taken to have been ingtituted noton  October(23, [1941], but on December 2, 1942.  This	pleawas  upheld  by	 the  trial  Court.   On  first	 -appeal-theDistrict  Judge held that the plaintiff is entitled  to	 thebenefit	 of  a. 14 of the Limitation Act and that  the	suitmust  be  taken as having- been instituted  on	October	 23,19419  and is; therefore, in time.  He accordingly  decreed,the suit.  In the -High Court the question as to whether theplaintiff  was	entitled  to  the benefit  of.	14  of	the,Limitation Act, though raised, was not finally decided.	  Itwas held that the possession of Hanimi Reddy was not adverseto the plaintiff and that accordingly he was entitled to thedecree	as  prayed  for.   The	question  as  to  the	non-availability  of the benefit of s. 14 of the Limitation	 Actto  the	 plaintiff in the present suit has not	been,  urgedbefore	us and- the finding of the District Judge  that	 theplaint	must  be  taken to have been  validly  presented  onOctober	 23,  1941, stands.  That date must,  therefore,  betaken to be the commencement of the action for the  purposesof  this appeal.  It will be noticed that this date is	morethan fourteen years from the date when the succession openedto  the properties of Venkata Reddy on August 25, 1927,	 butis less than twelve years after Hanimi Reddy obtained actualpossession  in execution of his decree on January 20,  1930.The  contention	 of  the  learned  Attomey-General  for	 theappellant  first defendant is that the possession of  HanimiReddy was adverse, that the plaintiff as well as the  seconddefendant  lost	 their right by the  adverse  possession  ofHanimi	Reddy  and his successor, the first  defendant,	 andthat  for this purpose not only the period from January	 20,1930, up to October 23, 1941, is to be counted but also	 theprior period during the pendency of Hanimi Reddy's suit whenthe  Receiver was in possession of the suit properties.	  Itis the. validity of199these two parts of the argument which has to be considered.It  will  be convenient to consider in	the  first  instancewhether or not the possession of- Hanimi Reddy from  January20, 1930, up to the date of his death in 1936 was adverse tohis  co-heirs.	The :facts relevant for this pur  ,pose	 arethe  following.	  At the date when Venkata  Reddy  died	 hisproperties were in the custody of the two maternal uncles ofhis father.  Hanimi Reddy filed his suit on the	 allegation,as  already  stated above, that he was the  nearest  agnaticrelation  alive of the deceased minor Venkata Reddy  and  ashis next rightful heir to succeed to all the estate, movableand immovable, of the said minor, set forth in the schedulesthereto.   He  appended a genealogical tree  to	 his  plaintwhich  showed  his relationship io Venkata Reddy  through  acommon ancestor and showed only the two lines of himself andVenkata Reddy.	Plaintiff and the second defendant belong toanother	 line  emanating from the same common  ancestor	 butthat  line  was	 not  shown and	 the  plaintiff	 and  seconddefendant were ignored.	 The first defendant in the  presentsuit did not admit the relationship of plaintiff and  seconddefendant  in his written statement.  He disputed  that	 thefather	of the plaintiff and second defendant was  descendedfrom the common ancestor either by birth or by adoption,  asshown  in  the genealogical table attached  to	the  presentplaint.	  It is possible that this may have been the  reasonfor  Hanimi  Reddy  ignoring the plaintiff  and	 the  seconddefendant in-his suit.	However this may be, at the trial inthis suit it was admitted that the plaintiff and the  seconddefendant are the agnatic relations of Venkata Reddy of	 thesame degree as Hanimi Reddy.  The defendants in the  earliersuit  who were in possession on that date claimed to  retainpossession  on	behalf of an alleged illatom  sonin-law	 (ofVenkata	 Reddy's  father)  a son  of  the  second  defendanttherein.   It  may  be mentioned that in that  part  of	 thecountry (Andhra) an illatom son-in-law is a boy incorporatedinto  the family with a view to give a daughter in  marriageand is customarily recognised as an heir in the absence of anatural-born son, This200claim  appears	to  have been negatived	 and  the  suit	 wasdecreed.   During  the pendency of the suit a  Receiver	 wasappointed in February, 1928.  He presumably took  possessionthough	the  date  of his taking possession is	not  on	 therecord.	 The decree in that suit dated March 15, 1929, is asfollows:"This Court doth order and decree that plaintiff do  recoverpossession  of	immovable  property  and  movables  in	 thepossession of the Receiver."It is in the evidence of the first defendant himself as D.W.I  that the properties, were taken possession of  by  HanimiReddy  on January 20, 1930.  The plaintiff examined  himselfas P.W. 1 to substantiate the case as set out in his  plaintthat  he  and  the second defendant and	 Hanimi	 Reddy	wereenjoying  the properties jointly as tenants in common.	 Therelevant portion of his evidence is as follows:"Annu  Reddy (Hanimi Reddy) uncle of defendant " and  myselffiled  0. S. No. 26 of 1927, District Court,  Anantapur-sameas  O.S.  No.  24  of  1928,  Sub-Court,  Anantapur-for	 theproperties  of the deceased Venkata Reddy.  As Hanimi  Reddywas  the eldest member, he was attending to the	 conduct  ofthat suit.  I was also coming to Court along with him.	 Thesuit  ended  in our favour.  Hanimi  Reddy  took  possessionthrough Court after the decree in the year 1930.  Since thenboth  Hanimi Reddy and myself have been in joint  possessionand enjoyment of the same."In cross-examination he said as follows:"I  told Hanimi Reddy that I would also join him as a  partyin  O.S.  24 of 1928.  He said there was no need for  me  tojoin and that he would give my share to	 me.................I  did	nut  file  any application  to	be  impleaded  as  adefendant................. I have nothing in writing to showthat  Hanimi Reddy was giving me any produce from  the	suitlands." The  first defendant filed the plaint, judgment and  decreein  Hanimi  Reddy's suit as also pattas, cist  receipts	 andlease  deeds  taken  by	 Hanimi Reddy  in  his	time.	Withreference to this evidence the trial Court found as follows;			    201"The  documents	 filed	on behalf  of  the  first  defendantcompletely establish that Hanimi Reddy filed the suit in hisindividual capacity and obtained possession thereof.   Thereis  nothing  to indicate that either the  plaintiff  or	 thesecond	  defendant    took   any    interest	 in    thoseproceedings................. There is no evidence of  HanimiReddy  having given any produce to the plaintiff or  to	 thesecond defendant.............. The plaintiff and the  seconddefendant  have been excluded from participation of  profitsto  their knowledge since 1930." The learned District  Judgefound  on  appeal (when the same was remanded to him  for  afinding by the High Court) as follows:"I  have  no hesitation in holding that	 the  plaintiff	 hadnothing to do with the institution or conduct of the suit 0.S. No. 24 of 1928 on the file of the Sub Court of Anantapur,and  that  he never had any actual joint enjoyment  of	suitproperties  with  the  late D. Hanimi  Reddy  or  the  firstdefendant."He  has	 not  given  a	finding	 as  to	 whether  the	non-participation of the profits by the plaintiff and the seconddefendant was in the nature of exclusion to their knowledge.But  there are some admitted and relevant facts brought	 outin evidence which are significant.  The present evidence  aswell  'as  the'	 plaint in the earlier	suit  of  1927	showclearly	 that  all the parties including Hanimi	 Reddy	wereresidents of village Mamuduru.	All the suit properties	 aresituated  in  that  village  itself;  as  appears   from,theschedules  to the plaint in the earlier suit.  Hanimi  Reddyand  the  plaintiff were fairly closely related	 as  appearsfrom the plaintiff's admission as follows:"My  brother-in-law who is also the nephew -of Hanimi  Reddywas  staying  with  Hanimi  Reddy.   My	 father-in-law	 anddefendant No. 1's father-in-law is the same."On these facts the question that arises is whether, in	law,the  possession	 of  Hanimi Reddy from	January,  20,  1930,onwards	 was  adverse  to  the	plaintiff  and	the   seconddefendant.26202Now,   the   ordinary  classical  requirement	of   adversepossession  is	that  it  should be  nec  vi  nec  clam	 necprecario. (See Secretary of State for India v. Debendra	 LalKhan(1)).   The	 possession  required must  be	adequate  incontinuity,  in publicity and in extent to show that  it  ispossession adverse to the competitor. (Se(,, Radhamoni	Debiv. Collector of Khulna(2)).  But it is well-settled that  inorder.	to  establish adverse possession of one	 co-heir  asagainst	 another  it is not enough to show that one  out  ofthem  is in sole possession and enjoyment of the profits  ofthe properties.	 Ouster of the non-possessing co-heir by theco-heir	 in  possession, who claims his	 possession  to	 be.adverse, should be made out.  The possession of one  co-heiris  considered, in law, as possession of all  the  co-heirs.When  one  co-heir  is	found to be  in	 possession  of	 theproperties it is presumed to be on the basis of joint title.The  coheir  in	 possession  cannot  render  his  possessionadverse to the other co-heir not in possession merely by anysecret	hostile animus on his own part in derogation of	 theother co-heir's title. (See Corea v. Appuhamy(3)).  It is  asettled	 rule of law that as between co-heirs there must  beevidence  of open assertion of hostile title,  coupled	withexclusive  possession  and enjoyment by one of them  to	 theknowledge  of  the other so as to constitute  ouster.	Thisdoes  not  necessarily mean that there must  be	 an  expressdemand	by  one and denial by the other.   There  are  caseswhich  have held that adverse possession and ouster  can  beinferred  when	one co-heir takes  and	maintains  notoriousexclusive  possession  in  assertion of	 hostile  title	 andcontinues  in such possession for a very  considerable	timeand  the  excluded  heir' takes no steps  to  vindicate	 histitle.	Whether that line of cases is right or wrong we neednot pause to consider.	It is sufficient to notice that	 thePrivy  Council in N. Varada Pillai v.  Jeevarathnammal(4)  quotes,	apparently with approval, a passage from  Culley  v.Deod Taylerson(5) which indicates that such a situation	 mayTell lead to an inference of(1)  [1933] L.R. 6i I.A. 78, 82.(2)  [1900] L.R. 27 I.A. 136, 140.(3)  [1912] A.C. 230.(4)  A.I.R. 1919 P.C. 44, 47.(5)  3 P. & D. 539; 52 R.R. 566.			    203ouster "if other circumstances concur". (See also  Govindraov.  Rajabai(1)).   It may be further mentioned	that  it  iswell-settled that the burden of making out ouster is on	 theperson claiming to displace the lawful title of a co-heir byhis adverse possession.In the present case there can be no doubt that Hanimi  Reddyobtained  sole possession of the suit properties  after	 thedeath  of  Venkata Reddy on the basis of an  action  againstthird  parties	in which he claimed to be the  sole  nearestmale  agnate  having  title to all  the	 properties.   Afterobtaining  possession  he was in continuous  and  undisputedpossession of the properties till his death enjoying all theprofits	 thereof.   No	doubt  in  an  ordinary	 case	suchpossession and enjoyment has to be attributed to his  lawfultitle, he being one of the co-heirs.  But the plaint in	 thesuit  of  1927 and the decree therein render  it  reasonablyclear that he filed the suit and obtained possession on	 thebasis  of his having exclusive title ignoring  his  coheirs.It  is	urged  that  knowledge	of  the	 assertion  of	suchexclusive  title  averred in a plaint cannot be	 imputed  toother co-heirs who are not parties to the suit.	 But in thiscase  it is not difficult on the evidence to ,say  that	 theplaintiff  and	the second defendant must  have	 been  fullyaware,	at  the	 time, of the nature of the  claim  made  byHanimi	Reddy  in the prior litigation and on the  basis  ofwhich he obtained possession.  That knowledge is implicit inthe  very  case that they have put forward  in	the  presentplaint.	  Their case is that the prior suit was	 brought  byHanimi	Reddy  with  the consent of the	 plaintiff  and	 thesecond	defendant  and	on  their  behalf.   No	 doubt	thatspecific  case has been found against them and that  findingis yes judicata between the parties.  But there is no reasonwhy  the admission as to the knowledge of the nature of	 thelitigation and the contents of the plaint which such a	casenecessarily implies should not be attributed at least to thepresent plaintiff.  It appears reasonable to think that	 theplaintiff  being  unable to explain his	 inaction  for	overfourteen  years	 after the death of Venkata Reddy  has	beenconstrained to put(1)  A. I. R. 1931 P.C. 48.204forward a false case that the prior suit by Hanimi Reddy waswith his consent and on his behalf.  It is significant	thatthe  plaintiff	has remained silent with out  asserting	 hisright during Hanimi Reddy's lifetime, and comes forward withthis  suit  after  his	death,	rendering  it  difficult  toascertain  whether  the	 fact  of  Hanimi  Reddy  completelyignoring  the  existence  of the plaintiff  and	 the  seconddefendant   as	 co-heirs  was	not  in	 denial	  of   theirrelationship and consequently of their title as co-heirs  totheir  knowledge.   The	 fact that even so late	 as  in	 thewritten	 statement  of the first defendant  relationship  isdenied may be indicative as to why Hanimi Reddy ignored	 theplaintiff  and	the second defendant and why  they  remainedsilent.	  The learned Judges of the High Court thought	thatthere  was nothing to show that Hanimi Reddy was aware	thatplaintiff  and	second	defendant  had	any  rights  in	 theproperties as co-heirs.	 This assumption is contrary to	 theadmission  of  mutual  knowledge  of  each  other's   rightsimplicit  in the plaintiff's case that Hanimi Reddy  broughthis  suit  with	 the  consent of  the  plaintiff.   In	suchcircumstances and especially having regard to the fact	thatboth the plaintiff and Hanimi Reddy were living in the	samevillage	  and  the  plaintiff  has  put	 forward   a   falseexplanation  to account for' his inaction, a Court  of	factmight  well have inferred ouster.  Sitting on an  appeal  inspecial	 leave,	 however,  we do not feel  it  desirable  todecide	the case on this ground. We, therefore,	 proceed  toconsider the further question that arises in the case, viz.,whether the Receiver's possession can be tacked on to HanimiReddy's	 possession, on the assumption that  Hanimi  Reddy'spossession on and from January 209 1940, was adverse to	 theplaintiff.The learned Attorney-General urges that prior possession  ofthe Receiver pending the suit must be treated as  possessionon  behalf of Hanimi Reddy with the animus of  claming	soleand exclusive title disclosed in his plaint.  In support  ofthis contention he relies on the well-known legal  principlethat when a Court takes possession of properties through itsReceiver, such Receiver's possession is that of all the			    205parties	 to the action according to their titles. (See	Kerron  Receivers, 12th Ed., p. 153).  In Woodroffe on  the	 Lawrelating to Receivers (4th Ed.) at p. 63 the legal  positionis stated as follows:" The Receiver being the officer of the Court from which  hederives	 his appointment, his possession is exclusively	 thepossession  of the Court, the property being regarded as  inthe custody of the law, in gremio legis, for the benefit  ofwhoever	  may  be  ultimately  determined  to  be   entitledthereto."But  does  this	 doctrine  enable  a  person  who  was	 notpreviously  in possession of the suit properties,  to  claimthat  the Receiver must be deemed to have  taken  possessionadversely  to the true owner, on his behalf, merely  becausehe  ultimately succeeds in getting a decree  for  possessionagainst	  the  defendant  therein  who	was  previously	  inpossession without title.  A 'Receiver is an officer of	 theCourt  and  is not a particular agent of any  party  to	 thesuit,	notwithstanding	 that  in  law	his  possession	  isultimately, treated as possession of the successful party onthe  termination  of the suit.	To treat  such	Receiver  asplaintiff's  agent  for the purpose  of	 initiating  adversepossession  by the plaintiff would be to impute	 wrong-doingto  the Court and its officers.	 The doctrine of  Receiver'spossession being that of the successful party cannot, in ouropinion,  be pushed to the extent of enabling a	 person	 whowas  initially out of possession to claim the tacking on  ofReceiver's possession to his subsequent adverse	 possession.The   position	may  conceivably  be  different	 where	 thedefendant  in the suit was previously in adverse  possessionagainst the real owner and the Receiver has taken possessionfrom  him  and	restores it back to him	 on  the  successfultermination  of the suit in his favour.	 In such a case	 thequestion that would arise would be different, viz.,  whetherthe  interim  possession of the Receiver would	be  a;	dis-continuance  or abandonment of possession or interrupt.	 ionof the adverse possession.  We are not concerned with it  inthis case and express no opinion on it.The matter may be looked at from another point of view.	  Itis well-settled that limitation cannot begin206to  run against a person unless at the time that  person  islegally in a position to vindicate his title by action.	 In.Mitra's	 Tagore Law Lectures on Limitation and	Prescription(6th Ed.) Vol.1, Lecture VI, at p. 159, quoting from  Angellon  Limitation,	 this Principle is stated in  the  followingterms:"   An	 adverse  holding  is  an   actual   and   exclusiveappropriation of land commenced and continued under a  claimof  right, either under an openly avowed claim, or  under  aconstructive claim (arising from the acts and  circumstancesattending  the appropriation), to hold the land against	 himwho  was in possession. (Angell, sections 390 and 398).	  Itis  the intention to claim adversely accompanied by such  aninvasion of the rights of the opposite party as gives him  acause of action which constitutes adverse possession."Consonant  with this principle the commencement	 of  adversepossession, in favour of a person, implies that person is inactual	possession,  at the time, with a  notorious  hostileclaim  of  exclusive title, to repel which, the	 true  ownerwould then be in a position to maintain an action.  It wouldfollow	that  whatever may be the animus or intention  of  aperson	wanting to acquire title by adverse  possession	 hisadverse	 possession cannot commence until he obtains  actualpossession  with the requisite animus.	In the leading	caseof  Agency Company v. Short(1) the Privy Council points	 outthat  there  is discontinuance of  adverse  possession	whenpossession  has	 been  abandoned and  gives  as	 the  reasontherefor, at p. 798, as follows:"  There is no one against whom he (the rightful owner)	 canbring his action."It is clearly implied therein that adverse possession cannotcommence  without actual possession which can furnish  causeof  action.   This  principle  has  been  also.explained  inDwijendra  Narain  Roy v. Joges Chandra De(2) at p.  609  byMookerjee J. as follows :The substance of the matter is that time runs when the causeof  action  accrues, and a. cause of  action  accrues,	whenthere is in existence a person who can(1) (1888) 13 App.  Cas. 793.(2) A.I.R. 1924 Cal. 6oo,207sue  and another who can be sued....... The cause of  actionarises when and only when the aggrieved party has the  rightto  apply to the proper tribunals for relief.	The  statute(of  limitation) does not attach to a claim for which  thereis  as	yet no right of action and does not  run  against  aright  for  which there is no corresponding  remedy  or	 forwhich  judgment cannot be obtained.  Consequently  the	truetest  to determine when a cause of action has accrued is  toascertain   the	 time  when  plaintiff	could	first	havemaintained his action to a successful result."In the present case, the co-heirs out of possession such  asthe  plaintiff and the second defendant were not obliged  tobring a suit for possession against Hanimi Reddy until	suchtime  as  Hanimi Reddy obtained actual	possession.   Indeedduring	the  time  when	 the  Receiver	was  in	 possession,obviously,  they  could	 not  sue  him	for  possession	  tovindicate  their title.	 Nor were they obliged	during	thattime  to  file a futile suit for possession  either  againstHanimi	Reddy  or against the defendants in  Hanimi  Reddy'ssuit when neither of them was in possession.  It appears  tous, therefore, that the adverse possession of Hanimi  Reddy,if any, as against his co-heirs could not commence when	 theReceiver  was in possession.  It follows that assuming	thatthe possession of Hanimi Reddy from January 20, 1930, was infact  adverse  and amounted to ouster of the  co-heirs	suchadverse	 possession was not adequate in time by October	 23,1941,  the  date  of  suit, to displace	 the  title  of	 theplaintiff.  It follows that the plaintiff respondent  beforeus is entitled to the decree which he has obtained and	thatthe  decision  of the High Court is, in our  view,  correct,though	on  different  grounds.	 It may	 be  mentioned	thatobjection  has	been  raised on behalf	of  the	 respondentsbefore	us  that  the question"	 of  tacking  on  Receiver'spossession  was not in issue in the lower Courts and  shouldnot be allowed to be raised here.  In the view we have takenit is unnecessary to deal with this objection.In the result the appeal is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.208