PETITIONER:WORKMEN OF THE HERCULES INSURANCE CO., LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:HERCULES INSURANCE CO., LTD., CALCUTTADATE OF JUDGMENT:07/12/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1961 AIR  853		  1961 SCR  (2) 995 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC1766	 (14)ACT:Industrial Dispute--Claim of bonus--General Insurance  busi-ness--Validity	of reference--Industrial Disputes Act,	1947(14 of 1947), s. 10(1)--Insurance Act, 1938 (IV of 1938), s.31A(1)(c), proviso (vii).HEADNOTE:In view of the unqualified and absolute prohibition contain-ed  in	s.  31A(1)(c) of the Insurance	Act,  1938,  againstpayment	 of  bonus  to the employees  in  general  insurancebusiness,  the	exception  made by  proviso  (vii)  to	thatsection	 must be strictly confined to the limits  prescribedby the said proviso.The policy underlying the proviso clearly is to exclude	 theintervention of Industrial Tribunals and leave the  questionof  payment of such bonus entirely to the discretion of	 theCentral Government.Consequently,	where  the  workmen  in	 general   insurancebusiness  claimed bonus and the Central Government  referredthe  dispute  for adjudication to  the	Industrial  Tribunalunder s. 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and theTribunal,  on a preliminary objection under s. 31A(1)(c)  ofthe  Insurance Act, 1938, read with proviso  (vii)  thereof,held that the reference was invalid,(1)  [1961] 2 S.C.R. 978.996Held,  the decision of the Tribunal was correct and must  beupheld.The Central Bank of India v. Their Workmen, [1960] 1  S.C.R.200, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 531 of 1959.Appeal	by  special leave from the Award dated	October	 21,1957 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad,in Reference No. 6 of 1957.N.   Dutta   Mazumdar,	G.  N.	Bhattacharjee  and   B.	  P.Maheshwari, for the appellants.M.   C.	  Setalvad,   Attorney-General	of  India   and	  R.Gopalakrishnan, for the respondent.1960.	December 7. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby GAJFNDRAGADKAR, J.-The short question of law which falls tobe decided in the present appeal is whether a dispute raisedby  the	 employees of a General	 Insurance  Company  againsttheir  employer for payment of bonus in any particular	yearcan  be referred for adjudication by an Industrial  Tribunalunder S. 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV  of1947).	 This question arises in this way.  The	 workmen  ofthe  Hercules Insurance Co. Ltd. are the appellants and	 theInsurance Company is the respondent before us.	On April 11,1957, the Central Government referred the appellants'  claimfor  bonus for the years 1954 and 1955 for  adjudication  tothe Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under s. 7A ofthe  Industrial	 Disputes Act, and this reference  has	beenmade under S. 10(1)(d) of the Act.  Before the Tribunal	 therespondent   urged  a  preliminary  objection  against	 thevalidity  of  the reference itself.  Its case was  that	 thepayment	 of  bonus by an Insurance  Company  is	 conditionedentirely  by the relevant provisions of the  Insurance	Act,1938  (IV  of 1938), and that the said	provisions  did	 notjustify	 the  reference	 of a dispute  in  that	 behalf	 foradjudication  by any Industrial Tribunal.  This	 preliminaryobjection  was	based  on the provisions of  S.	 31A(1)	 andproviso (vii) of the997Insurance  Act.	  It was also urged by the  respondent	thathaving	regard	to the limitations imposed  on	the  GeneralInsurance Companies by s. 40C of the Insurance Act the claimfor  bonus made by the appellants, could not  be  sustained.The  Tribunal  has  upheld the	preliminary  objection	thusraised	by  the respondent and held that  the  reference  isinvalid.   Incidentally	 it  has also  considered  the	plearaised	under s. 40C and has observed that the said plea  isalso  well  founded In the result the  Tribunal	 refused  toentertain the reference and dismissed it accordingly.  It isagainst this order of the Tribunal that the appellants	havecome to this Court by special leave.It  is	common	ground	that the  respondent  has  paid	 theappellants  bonus equivalent to two months' basic wages	 foreach  of the two years 1954 and 1955.  The appellants  claimtwo months' basic wages as additional bonus for each of	 thetwo  years  under reference.  It is their case that  if	 thetrading profits made by the respondent are ascertained	fromthe respondent's balance sheet and the Full Bench formula isapplied,  it  would appear that the respondent	has  in	 itshands  a substantial amount of available surplus from  whichthe  additional bonus claimed by them can be awarded.  Sincethe  reference has been rejected on the	 preliminary  groundthe Tribunal has naturally not considered this aspect of theproblem.The  preliminary  objection  raised  by	 the  respondent  isfounded	 on  the  relevant  provisions	of  s.	31A  of	 theInsurance Act (hereafter called the Act) and so we must	 nowturn  to the said provisions.  Section 31A(1)(c) of the	 Actprovides,  inter alia, that notwithstanding anything to	 thecontrary contained in the Indian Companies Act, 1913, or  inthe articles of association of the insurer, if a company, orin  any	 contract or agreement, no insurer shall  after	 theexpiry	of one year from the commencement of  the  Insurance(Amendment) Act, 1950, be directed or managed by, or  employas  manager or officer or in any capacity, any person  whoseremuneration   or  any	part  thereof  takes  the  form	  ofcommission or bonus in respect of the126998general insurance business of the insurer.  Thus looking  s.at  31A(1)(c) by itself without the proviso the position  isabsolutely  at clear.  The respondent cannot be directed  toemploy	the appellants in any capacity so as to	 include  intheir  remuneration a liability to pay bonus in	 respect  ofthe  general  insurance business of the	 respondent.   Bonusunder  the Industrial Disputes Act is not a part  of  wages,but  the  right to claim bonus which  has  been	 universallyrecognised by industrial adjudication in cases of employmentfalling under the said Act has now attained the status of  alegal  right.	Bonus can be claimed as a  matter  of  rightprovided  of  course by the application of  the	 Full  Benchformula it is shown that for the relevant year the  employerhas sufficient available surplus in hand.  Therefore a claimfor bonus made by the appellants in the present	 proceedingsis  a claim in respect of the general insurance business  ofthe  respondent,  and  if  allowed  it	would  add  to	 theremuneration payable to them.  In other words, bonus claimedby the appellants, if awarded, would, for the purpose of  s.31A  (1)(c),  be a part of their remuneration, and  that  isprecisely what is prohibited by the said provision.There  are,  however,  certain exceptions  to  this  generalprohibition,  and it is to one of these exceptions  that  wemust  now  turn.  Proviso (vii) to s. 31A (1)(c)  lays	downthat nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to prohibit-"the payment of bonus in any year on a uniform basis to	 allsalaried employees or any class of them by way of additionalremuneration,  such bonus, in the case of any employee,	 notexceeding  in  amount  the equivalent of his  salary  for  aperiod	which, in the opinion of the Central Government,  isreasonable having regard to the circumstances of the case."This  provision which constitutes an exception to  the	ruleprescribed  by s. 31A(1)(c) allows the payment of  bonus  tothe   employees	 of  Insurance	Companies  subject  to	 thecondition  specified  by it.  Bonus intended to be  paid  tosuch  employees must not exceed in amount the equivalent  oftheir  salary  for  a period which  the	 Central  Governmentregards as reasonable.999The result of this provision appears to be that the  CentralGovernment has to consider the circumstances of each insurerand  then  decide whether any bonus should be  paid  by	 theinsurer to its employees.  If the financial position of	 theinsurer is sufficiently satisfactory, the Central Governmentmay  decide  to	 allow	the insurer  to	 pay  bonus  to	 itsemployees, and in that context the Central Government  wouldprescribe  the	maximum within which the payment  should  bemade.  In no case can payment exceed the  maximum prescribedby  the Central Government, and in all cases the matter	 hasto  be	considered by the Central Government  and  no  otherauthority.   Having  regard to the scheme of the  Act  whichpurports to supervise and regulate the working of  InsuranceCompanies the legislature thought that the payment of  bonusby  the	 Insurance  Companies  to  their  employees   shouldnormally  be prohibited and its payment should be  permittedsubject to the over-riding control of the Central Governmentto  prescribe  the maximum in that behalf.  If	the  CentralGovernment  decides that no bonus should be paid,  no  bonuscan  be	 paid  by the insurer.	If  the	 Central  Governmentdecides	 that bonus should be paid but not beyond  specifiedlimit  the insurer cannot exceed that limit.  That,  in	 ouropinion, is the effect of proviso (vii) to s. 31A(1).It is, however, urged that proviso (vii) merely enables	 theCentral	 Government to prescribe the maximum.  It  does	 nottake  away  the Central Government's authority to  refer  anindustrial  dispute  in respect of  bonus  for	adjudicationunder  s.  10  of  the Industrial  Disputes  Act.   In	thisconnection  it is urged by Mr. Mazumdar that in	 some  casesthe Central Government may take the view that the  financialposition of the insurer justified the payment of bonus,	 butthe  quantum may be better left to the Industrial  Tribunal.In such a case the Central Government should have  authorityto  make  the  reference.  Similarly it is  urged  that	 theCentral	 Government  may  decide  that	within	the  maximumprescribed  by it, bonus should be paid by an  insurer,	 butthe insurer1000may not comply with the Central Government's decision and inthat  case  the only way to make  the  Central	Government'sdecision effective is to refer the    matter to adjudicationand  enable  the employees to obtain an award which  can  beexecuted.   That  is  why the appellants  contend  that	 theenabling provision contained in proviso (vii) should not  beconstrued   to	 constitute  a	bar  against   the   CentralGovernment's  power to act under s. 10(1) of the  IndustrialDisputes Act.We  are not impressed by this argument.	 In our opinion	 thepolicy	of the relevant clause of the proviso is  absolutelyclear.	 Payment  of bonus by insurers was intended  by	 thelegislature to be conditioned by the provisions contained inthe  said  clause,  and we feel no doubt  or  difficulty  inreaching  the  conclusion  that	 the  intervention  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunals  was intended to be excluded  and	 thematter was intended to be kept within the discretion of	 theCentral	 Government  so far as the payment of bonus  by	 theinsurers  is concerned.	 Then, as to the argument  that	 theGovernment  directive issued under proviso (vii) may not  beobeyed by any insurer, we do not think that such an event islikely	to happen; but theoretically it is conceivable	thatan  insurer  may refuse to comply with the decision  of	 theGovernment.  In that case all we can say is that there is  alacuna	left and the legislature may consider whether it  isnecessary   to	provide	 adequate  remedy  for	making	 theGovernment decision binding and final.	Having regard to theunqualified   and  absolute  prohibition  contained  in	  s.31A(1)(c) it seems to us difficult to hold that the  paymentof  bonus  to the employees of Insurance  Companies  is	 notabsolutely conditioned by proviso (vii).  In the absence  ofthe  said  provision  no bonus could have  been	 claimed  byInsurance employees, and so the effect of the said provisionmust be to limit the said right to the conditions prescribedby it.	That is why we think that the Tribunal was right  incoming	to  the conclusion that the reference  made  by	 theCentral	 Government is invalid.	 The fact that	the  CentralGovernment took the view that it could make such a reference1001is  hardly relevant in determining the scope and  effect  ofthe  relevant provisions of the Act.  This question must  beconsidered on what we regard to be the fair construction  ofthe  relevant  statutory  provision, and  as  we  have	justindicated the construction of the relevant provision clearlysupports  the view taken by the Tribunal.  Incidentally,  itmay  be	 pointed  out that in its  award  the  Tribunal	 hasreferred to several other decisions of Industrial  Tribunalswhich  have taken the same view though there are one or	 twodecisions  which have upheld the validity of  the  referencewithout duly considering the effect of s. 31A(1).In  this  connection we may refer to the  decision  of	thiscourt  in  The Central Bank of India v. Their  Workmen	(1),where a similar question has been considered.  In that	casethe Court had to consider the effect of s. 10 of the BankingCompanies  Act, 1949, prior to its amendment in	 1956.	 Thesaid  section,	according to that decision,  prohibited	 thegrant of industrial bonus to bank employees inasmuch as suchbonus is remuneration which takes the form of a share in theprofits of a banking company.  In dealing with the characterof bonus in relation to remuneration specified by s. 10,  S.K. Das, J., who spoke for the Court, observed that "bonus inthe industrial sense as understood in our country does	comeout  of the available surplus gap, wholly or in	 the  actualwage.	id it fills the wage and age in that sense,  whetherit be called contingent or supplementary.  None the less, itis   labour's  share  in  the  profits,	 and  as  it  is   aremuneration which takes the form of a share in profits,  itcomes within the mischief of s. 10 of the Banking  CompaniesAct".  Section 10 of the Banking Companies Act is comparableto  s.	31A  of	 the Insurance Act,  and  so  this  decisionsupports the view that we have taken about the effect of  s.31A(1)(c).   We have already held that the payment of  bonuswould  be  an additional remuneration to  the  employees  ofInsurance Companies and it would be(1)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 200.1002bonus  in respect of the general insurance business  of	 theinsurer.   In view of our conclusion that the  Tribunal	 wasright  in  upholding the preliminary objection, we    do notpropose to consider the other argument which had been  urgedby  the respondent before the Tribunal under s. 40C  of	 theAct, and which the Tribunal has incidentally considered	 andaccepted.The result is that the appeal fails and is dismissed.There will be no order as to costs.				    Appeal dismissed.