PETITIONER:JAMES ANDERSON, ADMINISTRATOR OFTHE ESTATE OF THELATE HENRY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:04/03/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR  751		  1960 SCR  (3) 167 CITATOR INFO : D	    1971 SC2270	 (4) D	    1973 SC1357	 (8) F	    1976 SC 662	 (3)ACT:Income-tax-Distribution	    of	  capital     assets-Whetherdistribution  must  be in specie-Sale of capital  assets  byadministrator  for distribution amongst	 legatees-Profit  onsuch   sales,  if  amounts  to	capital	 gains	 liable	  totax-Income-tax	Act,  1922 (XI Of 1922),  S.  12B(1),  thirdproviso.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was the administrator of the estate  of	 oneHenry Gannon, a resident of British India, who left for	 theUnited	Kingdom	 in  1944 and died there in  1945.   In	 thecourse	of administration the appellant sold certain  sharesand securities belonging to the deceased for the purpose  ofdistributing  the  assets amongst the legatees	and  therebyrealised  more	than their cost prime.	The excess  of	saleprice  over  the cost price was treated	 by  the  Income-taxOfficer as capital gain under s. 12 B168of the Income-tax Act and the appellant was assessed to	 taxon  such capital gain for the assessment years	1947-48	 and1948-49.   The	appellant contended that there	had  been  adistribution  of  capital assets by him under  the  will  ofHenry  Gannon and therefore he came under the protection  ofthe third proviso to s. 12B(1) and was not liable to tax.Held,  that  the appellant was not protected  by  the  thirdproviso	 to  s. 12B(1) as the expression "  distribution  ofcapital	 assets	 "  in that proviso  meant  distribution  inspecie and not distribution of sale proceeds of the  capitalassets.	  So long as there was distribution of	the  capitalassets	in  specie  and	 there was no  sale,  there  was  notransfer  for the purposes of s. 12B, but as soon  as  therewas a sale of the capital assets and profits or gains  arosetherefrom, the liability to tax also arose, whether the salewas by the administrator or by the legate.Sri  Kannan Rice Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Madras,	 (1954) 26 I.T.R. 351; Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Bombay North v. Walji Damji, (1955) 28 I.T.R. 914 and  GowriTile Works v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras, (1957)  31I.T.R. 250, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 335 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedAugust	25,  1954, of the Bombay High  Court  in  Income-taxReference No. 1 of 1954.N.A. Palkhivala, S. N. Andley, and J. B. Dadachanji,  forthe appellant.K.N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  March, 4. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.K.  DAS,  J.-This appeal by special leave is	from  thedecision of the Bombay High Court dated August 25, 1954,  inIncome-tax Reference No. 1 of 1954.  The only question whichfalls  for  decision  in the appeal is the  true  scope	 andeffect	of the third proviso to old S. 12B(1) of the  IndianIncome Tax Act, hereinafter referred to as the Act.The facts relevant to the appeal are these: one Henry Gannonwas a resident of British India, who used to be assessed  toincome-tax  under  the Income-tax law of this  country.	  Heleft  India in 1944 for the United Kingdom where he died  onMay  13,  1945.	 He left a will dated November 18,  1942  bywhich  the  National  Bank  of India  Ltd.,  in	 London	 wasappointed  Executor  of	 his estate.  On  October  1,  1945,probate169of  the	 will  was granted to the said Bank by	a  Court  ofcompetent  jurisdiction in the United Kingdom.	 On  October25, 1945, a power of attorney was given by the Bank to JamesAnderson,  who is now the appellant before us.	He  made  anapplication to the High Court of Bombay under s. 241 of the,Indian	Succession  Act	 and on	 that  application  obtainedLetters	 of Administration with a copy of the will  annexed.In  the	 course	 of administration of the  estate  of  HenryGannon,	 the  appellant sold certain shares  and  securitiesbelonging  to the deceased for the purpose  of	distributingthe  assets amongst the legatees.  The sale of these  sharesand  securities	 realised more than their cost	price.	 Theexcess of the sale price over the cost price was treated  bythe  Income Tax Officer as capital gain under s. 12B of	 theIncome Tax Act.	 For the assessment year 1947-48 the capitalgain was computed by the Income Tax Officer at Rs. 20,13,738and for the assessment year 1948-49 at Rs. 1,51,963.   Theseamounts	 of  capital  gain  were  brought  to  tax  for	 theassessment  year  1947-48  and 1948-49	along  with  certaindividend  and interest income which had accrued or had	beenreceived  in the relevant years of account.   Not  satisfiedwith these assessments, the appellant preferred two  appealsto  the Appellate Tribunal, Bombay.  These two appeals	wereconsolidated.	The appellant urged three points in  supportof  his	 contention  that  the	assessments  were   invalid:firstly,  that	s. 12B imposing a tax on capital  gains	 wasultra  vires the Government of India Act, 1935	;  secondly,that. under s. 24B of the Act, the appellant was only liableto pay tax which the testator would have been liable to	 payand  as these capital assets were not sold by the  testator,there was no liability upon the appellant: and thirdly, thatthe sale of the shares and securities by the appellant underthe  will  of Henry Gannon came within the  purview  of	 thethird  proviso to s. 12B(1) and, therefore, was riot  to  betreated	 as a sale of capital assets under s.  12B(1).	 TheAppellate  Tribunal repelled the first two contentions,	 butaccepted  the third as correct and in that view allowed	 thetwo appeals in part.  It directed the Income Tax Officer  todelete from the assessed income22170the capital gains made by the sale of shares and securities.The Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay City, then moved	 theAppellate Tribunal to refer to the High Court of Bombay	 thequestion  which arose out of the third	contention,  namely,the  true  scope and effect of the third proviso to  old  s.12B(1)	of  the	 Act.	The  Appellate	Tribunal   thereuponreferred  the following question of law to the	Bombay	HighCourt:"  Whether  the	 sale of the shares and	 securities  by	 theadministrator of the estate of late Mr. Gannon is not a salefor  the  purpose  of Section 12B(1) in view  of  the  thirdproviso to section 12B(1) of the Indian Income Tax Act."At  the	 instance of the assessee the  other  two  questionswhich  were  decided against him were also referred  to	 theHigh  Court.   The High Court of Bombay considered  all	 thethree questions in Income-tax Reference No. 1 of 1954 and byits decision appealed from answered all the three  questionsagainst	 the assessee.	The appellant then moved this  Courtfor special leave which was granted on October 7, 1955.The question whether the levy of capital gains under section12B  is	 ultra	vires no longer survives by  reason  of	 thedecision   of  this  Court  in	Navinchandra  Mafatlal	 v.'Commissioner  of  Income-tax(1).   This	 question  was	 nottherefore pressed before us.  The question under s. 24B	 wasalso  not  seriously pressed.  The view of the	Bombay	HighCourt  that  s.	 24B does not limit  the  liability  of	 theAdministrator  or  Executor to the cases referred  to  underthat section is correct; because the appellant is as much anassessee  under	 the Act as any other individual and  if  hemakes capital gains, he is as much liable to pay tax as	 anyother  individual.   This position has	not  been  seriouslycontested before us.We  are, therefore, left only with the question which  turnson the true scope and effect of the third proviso to old  s.12B(1) of the Act.  Capital gains were charged for the firsttime  by the Income-tax and Excess Profits  Tax	 (Amendment)Act,  1947,  which  inserted s. 12B in the  Act.   It  taxedcapital	 gains arising after March 31, 1946.  The  levy	 wasvirtually abolished by the Indian(1)  [1954] 26 I.T.R. 758; [1955] I. S.C.R. 829.171Finance	 Act,  1949,  which confined the  operation  of	 thesection	 to capital gains arising before April 1, 1948;	 butit  was	 revived  with effect from April  1,  1957,  by	 theFinance	 (No.  3) Act, 1956, which substituted	the  presentsection.   We  are  concerned in this appeal  with  the	 oldsection.   That section, leaving out those parts  which	 arenot relevant for our purposes, ran as follows :"  S. 12B Capital gains-(1) The tax shall be payable  by  anassessee  under the head "capital gains" in respect  of	 anyprofits or gains arising from the sale, exchange or transferof  a  capital asset effected after the 31st day  of  March,1946,  and  before  the 1st day of  April,  1948;  and	suchprofits	 and  gains  shall be deemed to	 be  income  of	 theprevious  year in which the sale, exchange or transfer	tookplace:Provided  further  that any transfer of	 capital  assets  byreason	of the compulsory acquisition thereof under any	 lawfor  the  time	being in force relating	 to  the  compulsoryacquisition   of  property  for	 public	 purposes   or	 anydistribution  of  capital assets, on the  total	 or  partialpartition of a Hindu undivided family, or on the dissolutionof  a  firm  or	 other association of  persons,	 or  on	 theliquidation of a company, or under a deed of gift,  bequest,will  or  transfer on irrevocable trust shall not,  for	 thepurposes  of this section, be treated as, sale, exchange  ortransfer of the capital assets:(2)  The  amount of a capital gain shall be  computed  aftermaking the following deductions from the full values of	 theconsideration  for which the sale, exchange or	transfer  ofthe capital asset is made, namely :-(i)expenditure	incurred  solely in connection	with  suchsale, exchange or transfer;(ii)the	 actual cost to the assessee of the capital  asset,including  any expenditure of a capital nature incurred	 andborne by him in making any additions or alterations  theretobut excluding any expenditure172in  respect of which any allowance is admissible  under	 anyprovisions of sections 8, 9, 10 and 12.(3)  Where  any	 capital asset became the  property  of	 theassessee  by succession, inheritance or revolution or  underany of the circumstances referred to in the third proviso tosub-section  (1), its actual cost allowable to him  for	 thepurposes  of  this section shall be its actual cost  to	 theprevious owner thereof and the provisions of sub-section (2)shall  apply accordingly; and where the actual cost  to	 theprevious owner cannot be ascertained, the fair market  valueat  the date on which the capital asset became the  propertyof the previous owner shall be deemed to be the actual	costthereof "Capital	 asset " is defined in s. 2(4A) of the Act,  and  itwas  not disputed before us that the shares  and  securitieswhich  the appellant sold constituted capital  asset  withinthe  meaning of that definition.  We may shortly state	herethe scheme of sub-ss. (1), (2) and (3) of s. 12B of the Act.Sub-section (1) is the substantive provision which levies  atax  in respect of profits or gains arising from  the  sale,exchange  or transfer of a capital asset effected  during  aspecified  period.   The admitted position in this  case  isthat  the  appellant sold the shares and  securities,  whichconstituted  capital  asset,  within that  period  and	thusclearly came within sub-s. (1) of s. 12B.  Sub-s. (2) stateshow  the amount of capital gain shall be computed,,  and  itallows	certain	 deductions  from  the	full  value  of	 theconsideration  for which the sale, exchange or	transfer  ofcapital	  assets  is  made.   As  nothing  turns  upon	 thedeductions  allowed under sub-s. (2), we need not  refer  tothem.	Sub-section  (3)  refers to a  capital	asset  whichbecame	 the  property	of  the	 assessee   by	 succession,inheritance or devolution or under any of the  circumstancesreferred  to in the third proviso to sub-s. (1), and  stateswhat  deductions the assessee is then entitled to.   In	 onecase, the assessee may be the administrator or executor	 whohas himself sold the capital173assets ; in another case the assessee may be the person	 whohas  got the capital assets by succession etc. or under	 anyof  the	 circumstances referred to in the third	 proviso  tosub-s. (1), and if in the latter case the assessee sells thecapital	 assets, he brings himself within sub-s. (1) but  isentitled  to a deduction of the actual cost to the  previousowner  in  accordance  with the provisions  of	sub-s.	(2);where, however, the actual cost to the previous owner cannotbe  determined,	 he is entitled to a deduction of  the	fairmarket value at the date on which the capital assets  becamethe  property of the previous owner.  This in effect is	 thescheme of the three sub-sections.  Manifestly, the intentionof  the legislature is to tax the profits made by the  sale,exchange or transfer of capital assets and the incidence  ofthe taxation falls at the time of the transfer.	 If the saleis  made  by the administrator or  executor,  the  liabilityunder sub-s. (1) falls on him; if, however, the sale is madeby a person who got the capital assets inter alia in any  ofthe  ways mentioned in sub-s. (3), he becomes liable to	 taxas  and when he sells the capital assets and  makes  profitstherefrom.   Now,  the question is what	 bearing  the  thirdproviso	 to  sub-s. (1) has on the aforesaid  scheme.	Thisproviso	 states in effect that under  certain  circumstancesmentioned therein a transfer of capital assets shall not  betreated as a transfer for the purposes of the section.	 Thecircumstances enumerated are: (a) compulsory acquisition  ofproperty  for public purposes, (b) distribution	 of  capitalassets	on  the	 total	or  partial  partition	of  a  Hinduundivided family, (c) distribution of capital assets on	 thedissolution of a firm or other association of persons, or onthe  liquidation  of  a company,  and  (d)  distribution  ofcapital	 assets	 under	a deed of  gift,  bequest,  will  ortransfer  on irrevocable trust.	 In the present case we	 areconcerned  with	 the  question	whether	 there	has  been  adistribution of capital assets by the appellant under a willso  as to bring him within the ambit of the  third  proviso.If  the	 appellant comes within that ambit, then  the  saleswhich  he  made	 of the shares and securities  will  not  betreated	 as  transfer within the meaning of  sub-s.(1).	 Thecontention of the appellant174is  that there has been a distribution of capital assets  byhim  under the Will of Henry Gannon and therefore  he  comesunder  the protection of the third proviso.  The High  Courttook the view that the expression " distribution of  capitalassets	 "  in	the  third  proviso  can  only	 mean	suchdistribution  in  specie;  it  cannot  and  does  not	meandistribution  of  the sale proceeds of the  capital  assets.The  High Court, therefore, held that the appellant did	 notcome  within the protection of the third proviso, as he	 didnot distribute the capital assets in specie.On  behalf of the appellant it has been contended before  usthat  the  High Court came to an erroneous  conclusion	withregard to the scope and effect of the third proviso.  Mr. N.A.  Palkhivala	who  has argued the case on  behalf  of	 theappellant has put his argument in the following way.  He hassubmitted that normally the purpose of a proviso is to carveout  an	 exception  from the  substantive  provision.	Sub-section	 (1) of s. 12B, which is the substantive  provision,imposes	 the liability to tax on an assessee in	 respect  ofprofits or gains arising from the sale, exchange or transferof  a  capital asset.  Leaving out the	case  of  compulsoryacquisition of property Tor public purposes which may resultin  capital  gains, Mr. Palkhivala has	submitted  that	 theother  cases earlier enumerated as (b), (c) and (d)  in	 theproviso	 cannot	 result	 in  any capital  gains	 by  a	meredistribution in specie; because on a distribution in  specieupon  a partition or upon a testamentary gift or gift  intervivos,	no capital gain can possibly be made by	 the  personwho  owned the assets before the distribution and who  alonecan be liable to tax under the section.	 If, therefore,	 thecorrect interpretation of the third proviso is	distributionof capital assets in specie, the proviso does not serve	 anypurpose.   Therefore,  Mr. Palkhivala has  argued  that	 theexpression " distribution of capital assets " must be  givena  meaning  which will fulfil a purpose	 and  correlate	 theproviso	 to the substantive provision in sub-s.	 (1).	Thatmeaning, according to him, is distribution of sale  proceedsof capital assets.We  are unable to accept the argument as correct.   Firstly,having regard to the definition of the expres-175sion   "capital	  assets"  it  would  be   wrong   to	read"distribution  of capital assets " as meaning  "distributionof sale proceeds of capital assets".  Obviously, there is  aclear  and vital distinction between " capital assets "	 andtheir  " sale proceeds ". If capital assets are	 sold  firstand a distribution of the sale proceeds is made	 afterwards,then the sale precedes distribution and what is	 distributedis  not	 capital  assets  but  the  sale  proceeds  thereof.Secondly,  we do not agree that the third proviso serves  nopurpose if the expression " distribution of capital assets "is given its natural and plain meaning, viz. distribution inspecie.	  The  High  Court expressed the view  that  by	 theproviso	 the legislature might have intended to	 protect  anassessee  from a possible argument by the Revenue that	when(to take an example appropriate to the case) an executor  oradministrator  transferred the estate or part of the  estateto  the person entitled to it, there was a  transfer  withinthe  meaning of sub-s. (1) of s. 12B.  To us it	 seems	thatthe purpose of the proviso is abundantly clear if the schemeof  sub-ss. (1), (2) and (3) is kept in mind.	Assume	thatthere  is distribution of capital assets in  specie  amongstlegatees,  and one of the legatees sells the capital  assetswhich he got in one of the ways mentioned in third  proviso;he  at	once becomes liable to tax on profits  made  on	 thesale.  Sub-section (3) makes that position clear and if	 theproviso is read in the context of the substantive provisionsof s. 12B its purpose is quite clear.  The purpose is  this:as  long as there is distribution of the capital  assets  inspecie and no sale, there is no transfer for the purposes ofthe section ; but as soon as there is a sale of the  capitalassets	and profits or gains arise therefrom, the  liabilityto  tax arises, whether the sale be by the administrator  orthe  legate.   It is significant that the proviso  uses	 thewords  " for the purposes of this section " and	 not  merelysub-s.	(1).  Indeed, Mr. Palkhivala was forced	 to  concedethat in view of the provisions of sub-s. (3) of s. 12B,	 theexpression " distribution of capital assets " must also meandistribution  in specie because under sub-s. (3) it  is	 thecapital	 asset	which becomes the property of  the  assesseeunder any of the circum-176contended  that	 the expression meant both  distribution  inspecie and distribution of sale proceeds.  We do    not	 seewhy an unnatural or forced meaning should   be given to	 theexpression,  when  by giving the expression  its  plain	 andnatural meaning the third proviso fits in with the scheme ofsub-ss.	 (1),  (2)  and (3) of s. 12B of  the  Act.   It  isnecessary  to  point  out here that  on	 the  interpretationsought	to be placed on the third proviso on behalf  of	 theappellant,  the administrator will escape paying tax  if  hesells the capital assets; but the legate will not escape  ifhe  sells the capital assets after having received  them  inspecie from the administrator.	This is an anomaly which  isagainst the scheme of s. 12B of the Act.  We are accordinglyof  the	 view  that the High Court  rightly  held  that	 theexpression  " distribution of capital assets " in the  thirdproviso	  to  sub-s.  (1)  of  s.  12B	of  the	 Act   meansdistribution   in  specie  and	not  distribution  of	saleproceeds.In the High Court an alternative argument was also presentedon  behalf  of	the assessee to the effect  that  the  thirdproviso	 contemplated involuntary transfers.  This  argumentwas based on the use of the expression by reason of' in	 theproviso,  and the proviso was sought to be read	 as  follows(omitting words not relevant to the case):"  Provided further that any transfer of capital  assets  byreason	 of  any  distribution	of  capital   assets   undera......................	 will................ shall not	 forthe purposes of this section be treated as sale, exchange ortransfer of the capital assets."The argument was that inasmuch as the administrator sold theshares	and securities for the purpose of  distributing	 thesale proceeds to the legatees, the sale was involuntary	 andwas  necessitated   by	reason of' the terms  of  the  will;therefore,  he was protected under the third  proviso.	 TheHigh  Court  repelled this argument and	 for  good  reasons.Firstly,  the  question whether the sale  was  voluntary  orinvoluntary.  is not, germane to the scheme of section	12B.Secondly, on a. proper reading of the proviso, the177expression  'by reason of' goes with the clause relating  tocompulsory   acquisition  of  property	and  not  with	 thedistribution of capital assets.The  position  seems  to us to be so clear that	 it  is	 un-necessary  to labour it or to refer to decided cases.	Suchdecisions  of  the High Courts as have been brought  to	 ournotice	are all one way and they take the same view  as	 wastaken  by the High Court in the decision under	appeal	(seeSri  Kannan Rice Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Madras(1); Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay North v. WaljiDamji  (2); and Gowri Tile Works v. Commissioner of  Income-tax, Madras (3).For  the reasons given above, we see no merit in the  appealand we dismiss it with costs.Appeal dismissed.