PETITIONER:SOHAN LAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:07/03/1957BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.MENON, P. GOVINDAKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  529		  1957 SCR  738ACT:Writ of mandamus-Disputed questions of fact and	 law-Disputeregarding  title-Whether remedy by way of  writ	 appropriate-When  writ can issue to private individual-State  illegallyevicting Person from house-Another Person taking  Possessionbona fide without knowledge of illegal eviction-Whether writcan  issue against such person-Constitution of	India,	Art.226.HEADNOTE:J,  a  displaced person, was found Prima facie	entitled  toallotment of a house and the Accommodation Officer moved hisfamily	into  the house on May 10, 1952, but  no  letter  ofallotment  was	issued to him.	Later,	when  certain  factsbecame	known  which in the opinion of the  Union  of  Indiadisentitled  j	to the allotment, he was informed  that	 thehouse  could not be allotted to him. j was evicted from	 thehouse  on  September 27, 1952, without being given  15	daysnotice	as required by S. 3 of the Public Premises  EvictionAct  (XXVII of 1950).  The house was then allotted to S	 andhe  was	 given	possession on October 3, 1952.	 J  filed  apetition  under	 Art. 226 of the Constitution  in  the	HighCourt.	The High Court ordered the Union of India and also Sto  restore possession of the house to J. S appealed.  Held,that the High Court erred in issuing the writ of mandamus.There was a serious dispute on questions of fact between theparties	 and  also whether j had acquired any title  to	 theproperty in dispute.  Proceedings by way of a Writ were	 notappropriate in a case where the decision of the Court  wouldamount	to a decree declaring a party's title  and  orderingrestoration of possession.  The proper remedy in such a caseis by way of a title suit in a Civil Court.  The alternativeremedy of obtaining relief by a739writ of mandamus or an order in the nature of mandamus couldonly  be had if the facts were not in dispute and the  titleto the. property in dispute was clear.As  the eviction of J was illegal on account of the  failureto  give  him  notice  under S. 3  Of  the  Public  PremisesEviction  Act  a writ of mandamus might have issued  to	 theUnion if the property had still been in its possession.	 Butno  such  writ could issue to S as, normally,  it  does	 notissue  to a private individual.	 If it had been proved	thatthe  Union and S had colluded, and the	transaction  betweenthem  was  merely colourable, entered into with	 a  view  todeprive	 J  of his rights, jurisdiction to  issue  the	writmight be said to exist in the Court.  The writ however couldnot  issue to S who had, apparently, entered into bona	fidepossession  of the house without knowledge that J  had	beenillegally evicted therefrom.R. v. Chestey Corporation, (1855) 25 L.J.Q.B. 61, applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.132 of 1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril  30,  1953, of the Circuit Bench of  the	Punjab	HighCourt at Delhi in Civil Writ Application No. 314 of 1952.Ram Lal Anand and S. N. Anand, for the appellant.R.Ganpathy Iyer and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 1.A.N. Grover and K. L. Mehta, for the respondent No. 2.1957.  March 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byIMAM  J.--The respondent Jagan Nath filed a  petition  underArt. 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court  whichwas  allowed.	The High Court ordered	the  respondent	 TheUnion  of  India and the appellant Sohan  Lal  to  forthwithrestore	 possession of house No. 35 situated in	 West  PatelNagar, Delhi to Jagan Nath.  Against this order of the	HighCourt  the appellant applied for and obtained special  leaveto appeal to this Court.Jagan  Nath  is	 a  displaced  person  and  a  refugee	fromPakistan.   The	 Government  of India  had  devised  variousschemes for the rehabilitation of refugees.  One740of these was a scheme for sale of certain houses constructedby the Government of India for refugees in West Patel Nagar.It   was  not  intended	 -under	 the  scheme  to   entertainapplications  from  displaced persons who had  already	beenallotted agricultural land in East Punjab.  A limited numberof  houses known as 'box-type tenements"  were	constructed.According  to  -he  procedure prescribed in  order  to	giveeffect to the scheme, only those displaced persons, who wereregistered  before the 15th of August, 1948, and were  gain-fully  employed, were eligible for allotment of a house.   Adisplaced  person wishing to apply for allotment of a  housewas required to submit an application in the prescribed formoffering  to purchase a house in West Patel Nagar.   If	 theapplicant  was prima facie eligible, he could be  instructedto deposit the sale price of the house in the treasury,	 hiseligibility  to be verified later on Permission	 to  depositthe  sale price did not mean that his eligibility  had	beenaccepted.   After  payment of the sale price  the  applicantcould  be required to produce proof of his  eligibility.   Alist  would  be	 prepared  of all  the	applicants  who	 haddeposited  the	sale price and whose  eligibility  had	beenverified.  If the number of the applicants was in excess  ofthe  available	number	of  houses,  those,  whose  treasurychallans  bore	a later date, would be	excluded  and  theirmoney refunded.	 The applicants whose names were included inthe final list would be required to pay the ground. rent  bya  specified date.  A particular house would be allotted  toan  applicant by drawing lots.	Jagan Nath had	got  himselfregistered  as a refugee on December 31, 1947.	He had	madehis  application in the prescribed form.  He  had  depositedthe sum of Rs. 5,600 as the sale price after his prima facieeligibility  had been accepted.	 He had also  deposited	 theground rent for the plot on which the house had been  built,having been informed previously that it had been decided  toallot him a two-roomed enclosed verandah "box-type" house inWest  Patel Nagar.  He was informed that the allotment of  aparticular house would be decided by drawing lots at site onFebruary 15, 1952, at 3 p.m. As the result of the drawing oflots, house No. 35, the741property  in  dispute  in  this appeal,	 fell  to  his	lot.According to Jagan Nath, on May 10, 1952, the  AccommodationOfficer	 in  his absence removed the members of	 his  familyalong with his entire belongings to the house in dispute  ina  truck and he and his family thus entered into  possessionof  the house in dispute.  Jagan Nath, however, was  evictedfrom  the house in dispute on September 27, 1952, by  virtueof   a	warrant	 of  eviction  dated  September	 11,   1952,purporting to have been issued under s. 25 of Ordinance	 IIIof  1952.   After his eviction,possession of  the  house  indispute was given to the appellant on October 3, 1952.	 Theappellant,  who is also a displaced person, had	 applied  onFebruary  27, 1952, for allotment of a house in	 West  PatelNagar.	 He had made the deposit of Rs. 5,600 as sale  priceand   had  apparently  complied	 with  all   the   necessaryconditions for allotment of a house to him and the house  indispute was allotted to him on July 31, 1952.  The appellanthas  been in possession of the disputed house since  October3, 1952.The appellant's main contention has been that, having regardto  the circumstances of 'the case, the High Court erred  inmaking the order it did which presumably purported to be  inthe  nature  of	 a writ of mandamus.  There  was  a  seriousdispute	 on questions of fact between the parties  and	alsowhether	 Jagan	Nath had acquired in law any  title  to	 theproperty in dispute.  Proceedings by way of a writ were	 notappropriate in a case where the decision of the Court  wouldamount to a decree declaring Jagan Nath's title and orderingrestoration of possession.  The proper remedy open to  JaganNath was to get his title declared in the ordinary way in  aCivil Court.  The alternative remedy of obtaining relief  bya  writ	 of mandamus or an order in the nature	of  mandamuscould only be had if the facts were not in dispute and JaganNath's	title to the property in dispute was clear.  It	 wasfurther contended on behalf of the appellant that a writ  ofmandamus or an order in the nature of mandamus could not  bemade  against the appellant, a private individual.   He	 hadcome  into  lawful possession and there was no	evidence  ofcollusion742between him and the Union of India and there was no  findingby the High Court that the appellant had acted in  collusionwith the Union of India as a result of which Jagan Nath	 wasdispossessed  of  the property in dispute and the  same	 wasallotted to him.On  behalf of Jagan Nath, it was urged that when he  enteredinto possession of the property in dispute he did not do  soas  a trespasser.  He had been inducted on the	property  bythe Accommodation Officer.  He could not have been illegallyevicted.   S. 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction) Act,	1950(Act No. XXVII of 1950), required a notice to be served uponhim directing him to vacate the premises within 15 days fromthe  date  of the service of the notice upon him  before  hecould be evicted.  This was not done and he had been evictedwithout	 complying with the mandatory provisions of a. 3  ofthe  said  Act.	 His eviction was a high-handed act  of	 theGovernment without any legal justification whatsoever.	 TheUnion  of  India which had illegaly evicted  him  should  beordered to restore possession of the property in dispute  tohim  and  as  the  eviction  was  at  the  instance  of	 theappellant, he should also be directed to restore  possessionof  the	 said property to Jagan Nath.  Reliance	 was  placedupon  certain  decisions  of the High Courts  of  Punjab  inKhushal Singh v. Shri Rameshwar Dayal, Deputy  Commissioner,Delhi  (1),  Hyderabad in G. Kistareddy v.  Commr.  of	CityPolice,	 Hyderabad (2) and Pepsu in Mohinder Singh v.  Stateof  Pepsu  (1),	 as  well as  certain  observations  in	 thejudgment  of  this Court in the case of Wazir Chand  v.	 Thestate of Himachal Pradesh (4) in support of the	 propositionthat,  as  Jagan  Nath was in possession  and  he  had	beenillegally  evicted, he was entitled to have  property,	fromwhich he had been illegally evicted, restored to him.We  do not propose to enquire into the merits of  the  rivalclaims	of  title to the property in dispute set up  by	 theappellant and Jagan Nath.  If we were to do so, we would  beentering  into	a  field  of  investigation  which  is	moreappropriate for a Civil Court in a properly constituted suitto do rather than for a Court exercising(1)  I.L.R. [1954] Punjab 211.(2)  A.I.R. [1952] Hyderabad 36.(3)  A.I.R. [1955] Pepsu 60.(4)  [1955]  S.C.R. 408.S.C.R.				743the  prerogative of issuing writs.  There are  questions  offact  and law which are in dispute  requiring  determinationbefore	the respective claims of the parties to this  appealcan  be	 decided.   Before the property in  dispute  can  berestored to Jagan Nath it will be necessary to declare	thathe  had title in that property and was entitled	 to  recoverpossession of it.  This would in effect amount to passing  adecree in his favour.  In the circumstances to be  mentionedhereafter, it is a matter for serious consideration  whetherin  proceedings	 under Art. 226 of the Constitution  such  adeclaration ought to be made and restoration of the propertyto Jagan Nath be ordered.Jagan Nath had entered into a transaction with the Union  ofIndia  upto a certain stage with respect to the property  indispute,  but  no letter of allotment had been	issued	him.Indeed,	 he  had been informed, when  certain  facts  becameknown,	that the property in question could not be  allottedto  him as he was a displaced person who had  been  allottedland in East Punjab.  As between Jagan Nath and the Union ofIndia  it  will	 be necessary to  decide  what	rights	wereacquired  by the former in the property upto the stage	whenthe  latter informed Jagan Nath that the property would	 notbe  allotted to him.  Another question for decision will  bewhether	 Jagan Nath was allowed to enter into possession  ofthe  property  because	it was allotted to him	or  under  amisapprehension	 as  the Union of India was  misled  by	 thecontents of his application.  The case of the Union of Indiais  that  under the scheme Jagan Nath was not  eligible	 forallotment  of  a  house	 in West  Patel	 Nagar,	 as  it	 wassubsequently discovered that he had been allotted,  previousto  his	 application, agricultural land in the	District  ofHissar.	  Being satisfied that Jagan Nath was  not  eligiblefor  allotment, the Union of India refused to allot  to	 himthe tenement No. 35, West Patel Nagar and allotment of	thathouse was made to the appellant who was found to be eligiblein   every  way.   The	appellant  was	 accordingly   givenpossession of the property after Jagan Nath's eviction.	 Theappelant had complied with all the conditions imposed by744the  Union of India and a letter of allotment  was  actuallyissued to him and he entered into possession of the propertyin  dispute under the authority of the Union of India.	 Didthe  appellant	thereby acquire a legal right  to  hold	 theproperty as a against Jagan Nath?  In our opinion, all thesequestions  should be decided in a properly constituted	suitin  a Civil Court rather than in proceedings under Art.	 226of the Constitution.The  eviction  of  Jagan Nath was in  contravention  of	 theexpress provisions of s. 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction)Act.  His eviction, therefore, was illegal.  He was entitledto  be evicted in due course of law and a writ	of  mandamuscould  issue to or an order in the nature of mandamus  couldbe made against the Union of India to restore possession  ofthe  property to Jagan Natb from which he had  been  evictedthe  property  was still in the possession of the  Union  ofIndia.	 The property in dispute, however, is in  possessionof  the appellant.  There is no evidence and no	 finding  ofthe High Court that the appellant was in collusion with	 theUnion of India or that he had knowledge that the eviction ofJagan  Nath was illegal.  Normally, a writ of mandamus	doesnot  issue to or an order in the nature of mandamus  is	 notmade  against a private individual.  Such an order  is	madeagainst a person directing him to do some particular  thing,specified  in the order, which appertains to his office	 andis  in	the  nature of a public	 duty  (Halsbury's  Laws  ofEngland	 Vol. 11, Lord Simonds Edition, p. 84).	 If  it	 hadbeen  proved that the Union of -India and the appellant	 hadcolluded,  and	the  transaction  between  them	 was  merelycolourable,  entered into with a view to deprive Jagan	Nathof  his rights, jurisdiction to issue a writ to or  make  anorder in the nature of mandamus against the appellant  mightbe said to exist in a Court.  We have not been able to	finda  direct authority to cover a case like the one before	 us,but it would appear that so far as election to an office  isconcerned,  a  mandamus to restore, admit, or  elect  to  anoffice will not be granted unless the office is vacant.	  Ifthe office is in fact full, proceedings must be taken by wayof injunction or election petition to oust the party. in745possession  and	 that  a  mandamus  will  go  only  on	 thesupposition  that  there  is nobody holding  the  office  inquestion.  In R. v. Chester Corporation (1) it was held thatit is an inflexible rule of law that where a person has beende facto elected to a corporate office, and has accepted andacted  in the office, the validity of the election  and	 thetitle  to the office can only be- tried by proceeding  on  aquo  warranto information.  A mandamus will not	 lie  unlessthe  election  can  be shown to be  merely  colourable.	  Wecannot	see why in principle there should be  a	 distinctionmade between such a case and the case of a person, who	has,apparently, entered into bona fide possession of a  propertywithout knowledge that any person had been illegally evictedtherefrom.In  our	 opinion,  the	High Court  erred  in  allowing	 theapplication  of	 Jagan	Nath filed under  Art.	226  of	 theConstitution  and  making the order it did.  The  appeal  isaccordingly  allowed and the order of the High Court is	 setaside.	 In the circumstances of the present case,  however,we  are of the opinion that each party should bear  his	 owncosts in this Court and in the High Court.Appeal allowed.