PETITIONER:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH	Vs.RESPONDENT:KHUSHI RAMDATE OF JUDGMENT:01/04/1960BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1960 AIR  905		  1960 SCR  (3) 427ACT:Criminal Trial--Magistrate empowered to impose sentence Pro-vided--Commitment   under   impression	of  not	  being	  soempowered--   Trial   by   Court   of	Session	  on	suchcommitment--Validity--Prevention  of Food Adulteration	Act,1954  (37  of  1954), ss. 7, 16 and  21.--Code	of  CriminalProcedure, 1898 (V of 1898), ss. 32, 207 and 347.HEADNOTE:The respondent was prosecuted for offences under s. 7 of thePrevention  of Food Adulteration Act, 1954.  The  Magistratefound  the  offences proved and he further  found  that	 therespondent had428committed  the offence for the third time for which  he	 wasliable to be awarded a sentence of imprisonment for not lessthan  two  years and to a fine of not less than	 Rs.  3,000.Section 21 of the Act specifically empowered the  Magistrateto impose this sentence, but as he was under the  impressionthat  s.  32 of the Code of Criminal Procedure	limited	 hispower  to  impose sentences he committed the  respondent  tostand  his trial before the Court of Session.  The Court  ofSession	 found the respondent guilty and convicted him.	  Onappeal the High Court held that the Magistrate had no  powerto commit and that the Sessions judge had no Jurisdiction totry  the  case, set aside the conviction  and  sentence	 andremanded the case for retrial to the MagistrateHeld.,	that  the commitment was not illegal  and  that	 theSessions judge had jurisdiction to try the case.  Section 21of the Act was not a disabling provision and it did not makecommitment  by	a  Magistrate competent to  award  the	fullsentence  prescribed by the Act, a nullity; it did not	takeaway the power of the Magistrate to commit.  The  Magistratehad  both  the	power and the  territorial  jurisdiction  tocommit, and the commitment was good.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 160  of1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedOctober	 30,  1958,  of the Allahabad  High  Court  (LucknowBench)	at  Lucknow  in Criminal Appeal	 No.  105  of  1957,arising	 out  of the judgment and order dated  February	 12,1957,  of the Second Temporary Civil and Sessions  Judge  atBarabanki in Criminal Sessions Trial No. 102 of 1956.G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the appellant.The respondent did not appear.1960.  April 1. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR,	  J.--The  respondent  was  prosecuted	before	 theJudicial Magistrate, Barabanki, for offences under cls.	 (i)and  (iii)  of s. 7 of the Prevention of  Food	AdulterationAct, 1954, for selling adulterated milk and for selling milkwithout	 a licence.  The learned Magistrate found  that	 theoffences  had been proved and further that,  the  respondenthad  committed the offences for the third time.	  Under	 cl.(a)  (iii)  of	sub-sec. (i) of s. 16 of  the  Act,  in	 theabsence of special and adequate reasons to the contrary, fora third offence the imprisonment to be awarded cannot be forless than two years and the fine to be imposed not less thanthree thousand rupees.	Section 32 of429Criminal  Procedure Code however provides that a  Magistrateof the first class shall not have power to impose a sentenceof fine exceeding rupees two thousand.	Under the impressionthat his power as a Magistrate of the first class to  imposesentence  was  limited	by  s.32 of  the  Code	the  learnedJudicial  Magistrate committed the respondent to  stand	 histrial before the Court of Session, presumably acting unders.   347 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.The  respondent	 was thereupon tried by a  learned  SessionsJudge of Barabanki who found him guilty of the offences withwhich  he  had	been charged.  The  learned  Sessions  Judgehowever	 came to the conclusion that the offences  had	beencommitted by the respondent for the second time and not	 thethird.	He observed that the learned Judicial Magistrate wascompetent to award the minimum punishment prescribed by	 theAct  for a second offence and should not have committed	 thecase  to the Court of Session at all.  He however  convictedthe  respondent and awarded the minimum sentence  prescribedby   the  Act  for  a  second  offence,	  namely,   rigorousimprisonment for one year and a fine of rupees two  thousandand, in default, rigorous imprisonment for a further  periodof six months for each of the offences and directed the sen-tences of imprisonment to run concurrently.The respondent then appealed to the High Court at Allahabad.Mulla, J., who heard the appeal pointed out that the learnedJudicial Magistrate had overlooked the "Provisions of s.  21of  the	 Act which provides  that  notwithstanding  anythingcontained  in  s. 32 of the Code it shall be  lawful  for  aMagistrate   of	 the  first  class  to	pass  any   sentenceauthorised by the Act in excess of his powers under s. 32 ofthe  Code.   The  learned Judge observed  that	the  learnedMagistrate  was	 therefore  quite  competent  to  award	 allpunishments  that  the	law required and had  no  reason  tocommit	the respondent to a Court of Session.  He  took	 theview  that  a Court of Session could try  only	those  caseswhich  were  legally  and  properly committed  to  it  by  aMagistrate  and	 that  s.  21 of the Act  was  not  only  anenabling  provision but also a disabling one.  He held	thats. 21 of the Act prevented a commitment to55430the Court of Session by a Magistrate of the first class.  Heobserved, " Where a special Act has made a special provisionfor punishment to be awarded by a Magistrate irrespective ofthe  limitations placed upon his powers under  the  CriminalProcedure  Code, it amounts to an abrogation of the  generallaw  and the provisions of s. 347 of the Criminal  ProcedureCode cannot be applied to such a case." In this view of	 thematter	he held that the learned Judicial Magistrate had  nopower  to commit the respondent to the Court of Session	 fortrial and the learned Sessions Judge had no jurisdiction  totry  the  case.	  He  thereupon	 set  aside  the  order	  ofconviction  and the sentence passed against  the  respondentand  remanded  the  case  to  the  District  Magistrate	  ofBarabanki  to  be  transferred	by him to  the	Court  of  acompetent Magistrate for trial and disposal.  The State	 hasappealed to this Court against the judgment of Mulla, J.We are unable to agree with the view of Mulla, J., that	 thelearned Sessions Judge had no jurisdiction to try the  case.We  do	not  think  that s. 21 of the  Act  is	a  disablingprovision.  All that it does is to authorise a Magistrate ofthe  first  class  to award a  sentence	 beyond	 the  limitsprescribed  for	 him under s. 32 of the Code.  It  does	 notaffect	the provisions of ss. 207 and 347 of the  Code,	 norhas  it anything to do with the jurisdiction of a  Court  ofSession.   The	section	 does  not  make  commitment  by   aMagistrate  competent to award the full sentence  Prescribedby  the Act, a nullity; nor does the section interfere	withthe jurisdiction of a Court of Session to deal with a mattercommitted to it in spite of its provisions.The  jurisdiction  of a Court of Session  depends  upon	 theCode.	It  has	 jurisdiction  to  try	any  case  which  iscommitted  to it.  The case against the respondent had	beencommitted to a Court of Session by a Magistrate having powerto commit.  Further, the Magistrate did not lack territorialjurisdiction  to commit.  It may be that the Magistrate	 wascompetent  to  try  the	 case  and  award  all	 punishmentsprescribed by law.  It is also true that the Magistrate	 wasnot compelled to commit the case to a Court of Session.	  Weare unable to subscribe to the view that a commitment in431such circumstances is itself void.  Neither do we understandMulla,	J.,  to take the view that apart from s. 21  of	 theAct, the commitment was void because the learned  Magistratecould  himself have awarded the maximum	 sentence  provided.We have said that s. 21 does not take away the power of	 theMagistrate  if he has such power, to commit, nor affect	 thejurisdiction  of a Court of Session to try a case  committedto  it	by a Magistrate empowered to do	 so.   Therefore  itseems  to  us  that  the learned  Sessions  Judge  had	fulljurisdiction to try the case against the respondent.In the result we allow the appeal and set aside the order ofthe High Court.	 The case will now go back to the High Courtto be heard on merits.Appeal allowed.