PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:R. S. NANJI.DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/01/1956BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, SUDHI RANJANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1956 AIR  294		  1956 SCR   18ACT: Bombay	 Land  Requisition Act, 1948 (Bombay Act  XXXIII  of1948), s. 5 (1)-Requisition of premises by Bombay Governmentfor housing an officer of State Road Transport	Corporation-Whether	 for a public purpose-Expression  'public  purpose'-Meaninq of Road Transport Corporation Act, 1950	 (ParliamentAct  LXIV  of 1960), S.	 19(1)(c)-Corporation  empowered  toprovide	 living	 accommodation	for  its  employees-Premisesrequisitionedfor Corporation-Whether for a public purpose.HEADNOTE:In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of s.5 of the Bombay Land Requisition Act, 1948 the Government ofBombay	requisitioned by an order dated 12th May  1952,	 thepremises  specified therein, for a public  purpose,  namely,for  bousiing  an  officer  of	the  State  Road   TransportCorporation  which is a public utility service.	 On  a	writapplication under Art. 226 of the Constitution filed by	 therespondent the requisition order was set aside by the BombayHigh Court on the ground that the requisition was not for  apublic purpose and therefore could not have been made  unders. 5 of the Requisition Act.  On appeal by special leave  tothe Supreme Court.19Held  (1) that in the circumstances of the present case	 therequisition was for a public purpose and the impugned  orderhad been wrongly set aside by the High Court;(2) the phrase 'Public purpose' includes a purpose, that is,an  object  or	aim, in which the general  interest  of	 thecommunity,   as	 opposed  to  the  particular  interest	  ofindividuals  is	 directly  and	vitally	 concerned.   It  isimpossible  to	define	precisely  the	expression   'publicpurpose'.  In each case all the facts and circumstances willrequire to be closely examined to determine whether a publicpurpose has been established;(3)  the Corporation has power to provide for its  employeessuitable  conditions  of  service   including...............living	accommodation,	places for rest and  recreation	 andother amenities vide s. 19(1) (c)  of  the  Road   TransportCorporation Act, 1950;(4)  the  provisions of the Road Transport  Corporation	 Actread as a whole lead to the conclusion that if the  premisesspecified  in the impugned order had been requisitioned	 forthe  Corporation,  the	requisition would have	been  for  apublic purpose;(5)in  the present case the Corporation is a public  utilityconcern	 and the general interest of the public is  directlyand  vitally concerned with its activities and	undertaking.Providing  living  accommodation  for  its  employees  is  astatutory  activity of the Corporation and it  is  essentialfor  it	 to provide such accommodation in  order  to  ensureefficient working of the road transport system and thereforethe impugned order was validly passed under the	 RequisitionAct.Hamabai	 Framjee.Petit	v. Secretary of State for  India  inCouncil	 ([1914]  L.R. 42 I.A. 44), The State of  Bombay  v.Bhonji Munji and Another ([1955] 1 S.C.R. 777) and The Stateof Bombay v. Ali Gulshan ([1955] 2 S.C.R. 867), referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil AppealNo. 235 of 1954.On Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order datedthe  26th day of February 1953 of the Bombay High  Court  inAppeal No. 120 of 1952 arising out of the Order dated the IIthe  day  of September, 1952 of the said High Court  in	 itsOrdinary Original Jurisdiction in Misc.	 Application No. 216of 1952.M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General of India (B.  Sen and R.  H.Dhebar, with him) for the appellant.Sri Narain Andley, J. B. Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain, forthe respondent.201956.  January 17.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyIMAMJ.--By  an	order  dated  12th  May	 1952,	 hereinafterreferred  to  as the impugned order the	 Government  of	 theState of Bombay requisitioned under section 5 of the  BombayLand  Requisition  Act, 1948 (Bombay Act  XXXIII  of  1948),hereinafter referred to as the Requisition Act, the premisesspecified  therein.   The impugned order, so far  as  it  isrelevant to the present appeal, stated,  "Now,	 therefore, in exercise of the powers  conferred  bysub-section (1) of section 5 of the Bombay Land	 RequisitionAct,  1948  (Bombay Act XXXIII of 1948)	 the  Government  ofBombay	is  pleased  to requisition the	 said  part  of	 thebuilding  for  a  public purpose,  namely,  for	 housing  anOfficer	 of the State Road Transport Corporation which is  apublic utility service".  The respondent filed a writ application under Article	 226of  the	 Constitution  in  the Bombay  High  Court  and	 theapplication  was  beard by Tendolkar, J. who set  aside	 theimpugned order.	 Against his decision the appellant appealedand a Division Bench of the said Court affirmed the decisionof  Tendolkar,	J. The present appeal is  by  special  leaveagainst the decision of the High Court.  The principal ground upon which the impugned order was setaside was that the requisition was not for a public  purposeand therefore could not have been validly made under section5 of the Requisition Act.   On  behalf  of the appellant,  the  Attorney-General	 hasurged  that  in the circumstances of the present  case,	 therequisition was for a public purpose and the impugned  orderhad been wrongly set aside by the High Court.  In support ofhis submission he relied upon certain provisions of the RoadTransport Corporations Act, 1950 (LXIV of 1950), hereinafterreferred to as the Act, the decision of the Privy Council inthe case of Hamabai Framjee Petit v. Secretary of State	 forIndia in Council(1) and the decisions of this Court in(1)  [1914] L.R. 42 I.A. 44.21The  State of Bombay v. Bhanji Munji and Another(1) and	 TheState  of  Bombay v. Ali Gulshan (Civil Appeal	No.  229  of1953)  decided on the 4th of October 1955(2).  On the  otherhand,  Mr.  Andley, on behalf of the  respondent,  contendedthat to requisition the premises to house an employee of theState Road Transport Corporation, hereinafter referred to asthe  Corporation, could not be regarded as a public  purposebecause	 that was a matter in which the general interest  ofthe  community was not directly and vitally  concerned.	  Heurged  that  although their Lordships of the  Privy  Councilrightly	  approved   the  observations	of   Batchelor,	  J.concerning  the expression 'public purpose', they  erred  intheir  decision in Hamabai's case.  In any event,  Hamabai'scase  could  be distinguished as in that case  there  was  ascheme	for  constructing  houses  for	Government  servantsgenerally  and not procuring residential  accommodation	 forone  particular	 individual.  The validity of  the  impugnedorder was also questioned by him on the ground that  nothinghad been established to prove that by housing an officer  ofthe  Corporation in the requisitioned premises the needs  orthe  purposes of the Corporation would be served or that  itwould contribute to the efficiency of the officer concerned.   Before Tendolkar, J. two points bad been raised (1)	thatno enquiry, as required by section 5 of the Requisition Act,was held and (2) that the impugned order was invalid as	 therequisition  was  not  for a  public  purpose.	 The  formerquestion was decided against the respondent while the latterwas decided in his favour.  In appeal, the first point	doesnot appear to have been put forward as there is no referenceto it in the judgments of the learned Judges of the DivisionBench.	 In  this  Court the only point	 argued	 was  as  towhether	 the  requisition was for a public purpose  or	not.Before proceeding to consider that question it is  necessaryto  make  some	reference  to  the  purpose  for  which	 theCorporation is established, its compo. sition, the extent ofcontrol	 exercised by the State Government over it  and	 itsactivities.(1) [1965] 1 S.C.R. 777.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 867.22It  was	 not disputed before us that the  Corporation  is  apublic utility concern and is governed by the provisions  ofthe Act.  The purpose for which the Corporation was  createdmay be gathered from the provisions of section 3 of the	 Actwhich  enables	a  State  Government  to  establish  a	RoadTransport  Corporation	having	regard	to  the	  advantagesoffered to the public, trade and industry by the developmentof road transport, the desirability of coordinating any formof  road transport with any other form of transport and	 thedesirability  of extending and improving the facilities	 forroad transport in any area and of providing an efficient andeconomical system of road transport service.  The  Corporation  consists  of  a  Chairman  and   membersappointed by the State Government who are removable by	thatauthority.   Where  capital is subscribed by  the  issue  ofshares under section 23 of the Act provision is made for therepresentation	of the share-holders in the Corporation	 andthe  manner  in which they are to be elected  in  accordancewith rules to be framed under the Act.	Its Chief  ExecutiveOfficer	 or General Manager and its Chief  Accounts  Officerare  to	 be appointed by the State  Government.	  The  otherofficers and servants are to be appointed by the Corporationbut the conditions of appointment and service and the scalesof pay shall be determined by regulations made under the Actsubject	 to the provisions of section 34,  which  authorisesthe  State  Government	to  issue  directions  and   generalinstructions  to the Corporation and these instructions	 mayinclude	  directions   relating	 to  the   recruitment	 andconditions of service.  The  Corporation  is under the effective  control  of	 theState  Government.   In addition to what  has  already	beenmentioned   when  referring  to	 the  composition   of	 theCorporation, the capital of the Corporation may be  providedby  the Central and State Governments in such proportion  asis  agreed between them.  When no such capital is  provided,the  Corporation may raise capital, as is authorised by	 theState  Government,  by issue of shares.	  These	 shares	 areguaran-23teed by that Government.  The budget of the Corporation	 hasto be submitted to the State Government for approval and itsaccounts  are to be audited by an auditor appointed by	thatGovernment.  The balance of the net profits, after providingfor  various matters mentioned in section 30 of the Act,  isto  be made over to the State Government for the purpose  ofroad development.  The Corporation can be superseded by	 theState  Government or that Government may, after	 an  enquiryunder section 36, authorize a person by notification in	 theofficial Gazette to take over the Corporation and administerits affairs during the period the notification is in force.  The activities of the Corporation are manifold in  pursuitof which there is a statutory duty to so exercise its powersas  to	provide,  secure  or promote  the  provision  of  anefficient,  adequate,  economical and  properly	 coordinatedsystem	of road transport in the State or part of it and  inany extended area (vide section 18 of the Act).	 The  powersof  the	 Corporation are stated in section 19  of  the	Act.These  powers, although not exhaustive, cover a wide  field.Particular  reference  need be made only to  some  of  them.Section 19(1) provides:  "Subject  to	the provisions of this	Act,  a	 Corporationshall have power:-(a).................... (b)....................(c)to  provide	for  its employees  suitable  conditions  ofservice	 including  fair wages, establishment  of  providentfund,  living accommodation, places for rest and  recreationand other amenities".  Section 19(2) excluding the explanation to clause (a)	 andsome  clauses with which we are not  immediately  concerned,states,  "Subject  to	the  provisions	 of  this  Act,	 the  powersconferred by subsection (1) shall include power:-(a)  to manufacture, purchase, maintain and  repair  rollingstock,	vehicles, appliances, plant, equipment or any  otherthing  required for the purpose of any of the activities  ofthe Corporation referred to in sub-section (1).24  (b)	to acquire and hold such property, both movable	 andimmovable,  as	the Corporation may deem necessary  for	 thepurpose of any of the said activities and to lease, sell  orotherwise transfer any property held by it.(d)  to purchase by agreement or to take on lease  or  underany  form  of  tenancy any land and to	erect  thereon	suchbuildings as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying onits undertaking."   The provisions of the Act read as a whole lead us to	 theconclusion  that if the premises specified in  the  impugnedorder  had  been  requisitioned	 for  the  Corporation,	 therequisition  would have been for a public  purpose.   Indeedthe  learned Judges of the High Court were of  this  opinionand  Mr. Andley did not contend to the contrary.   Accordingto  him,  in  this case., the requisition was  not  for	 theCorporation  but for an employee of the Corporation and	 forhis convenience which could not be a public purpose.  The  expression  'public purpose' has been  considered  inmany cases and it is unnecessary to refer to them except thethree  cases  cited by the Attorney-General.   In  Hamabai'scase(1)	 the  observation  of Batchelor, J.  to	 the  effect"General  definitions  are, I think, rather  to	 be  avoidedwhere  the avoidance is possible, and I make no	 attempt  todefine precisely the extent of the phrase 'public  purposes'in  the lease; it is enough to say that, in my opinion,	 thephrase,	 whatever else it may mean, must include a  purpose,that is, an object or aim, in which the general interest  ofthe  community,	 as opposed to the  particular	interest  ofindividuals, is directly and vitally concerned" received theapproval  of the Privy Council.	 Their	Lordships,  however,rejected  the  contention  that there cannot  be  a  'publicpurpose' in taking land if that land when taken is no it  insome  way  or other made available to the public  at  large.This  contention had been raised because the Government	 hadresumed	 lands, which had been the subject of a lease and  asana , the terms of which permitted the Government to resumethe lands for any public purpose, with a view to erect(1)  [1914] L.R. 42 I.A. 44.25thereon dwelling houses for the use of Government  officialsas their private residence on adequate rent.  The concludingportion	 of the judgment of the Privy Council  is  importantand  needs to be quoted.  It stated, "But here, so far	fromholding	 them to be wrong, the whole of the learned  judges,who  are thorough conversant with the conditions  of  Indianlife,  say  that they are satisfied that the scheme  is	 onewhich  will  redound  to  public  benefit  by  helping	 theGovernment to maintain the efficiency of its servants.	Fromsuch  a conclusion their Lordships would be slow to  differ,and  upon  its	own statement it commends  itself  to  theirjudgment".   In Bhanji Munji's case(1) the  requisition	 wasfor housing a person having no housing accommodation.  Afterconsidering the affidavits, the facts and the  circumstancesof the case, Bose, J . observed "The Constitution authorizesrequisition  for  a  public purpose.  The  purpose  here  isfinding	 accommodation for the homeless.  If,  therefore,  avacancy is allotted to a person who is in fact homeless, thepurpose	 is  fulfilled".   In  Ali  Gulshan's  case(2)	 therequisition  was for the purpose of housing a member of	 thestaff  of  a foreign Consulate.	 This Court  held  that	 therequisition was for a State purpose, which it is needless tosay must be regarded as a public purpose.  An examination ofthese and other cases leads us to the conclusion that it  isimpossible  to	precisely  define  the	expression   'publicpurpose'.  In each case all the facts and circumstances willrequire to be closely examined in order to determine whethera  'public  purpose' has been established  Prima  facie	 theGovernment is the best judge as to whether 'public  purpose'is served by issuing a requisition order, but it is not	 thesole  judge.   The courts have the jurisdiction	 and  it  istheir  duty to determine the matter whenever a	question  israised	whether	 a  requisition order is or  is	 not  for  a'Public	 purpose'.  The cases of Hamabai, Bbanji  Munji	 andAli  Gulshan  are  merely illustrative.	  In  each  of	themprimarily  the person directly and vitally concerned  -wouldbe the person to whom the residential accommodation would be(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 777.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 867,426allotted with which prima facie the general interest of	 thecommunity  would not be directly concerned at all.  We	mustregard Hamabai's case as a decision to the ,effect that	 thegeneral	  interest  of	the  community	was   directly	 andvitallyconcerned  with	the  efficiency	 of  the  Governmentservants  because  it would be to its benefit to  have	suchservants and, therefore, providing living accommodation	 forthem  was a public purpose.  The decision in  Bhan   Munji'scase  must be read as one in which the general	interest  ofthe  community was directly and vitally concerned with	pre-vention of lawlessness and disease and to house the homelessin  order to avoid such a contingency was a public  purpose.In Ali Gulshan's case a State purpose was served because theState Government was interested in its own trade or commerceand  in the efficient discharge of his duties by  a  foreignConsul who would be concerned with such trade or commerce.  In  the  present  case  it is	 possible  to  construe	 theimpugned order as a requisition on behalf of the Corporationas it does not name any individual for whom the	 requisitionis  being made.	 In other words the  requisitioned  premiseswere at the disposal of the Corporation to house one of	 itsofficers to be named later on.	Apart from that, there is  astatutory power in the Corporation under section 19 (1)	 (c)of the Act to provide living accommodation for its employeesand under section 14 the Corporation appoints such number ofits officers and servants as it considers necessary for	 theefficient performance of its functions.	 It may be  assumed,therefore, that the Corporation appoints only such  officersas  are needed for the efficient discharge of its  functionsand  that the State Government was requested to	 requisitionsome premises as living accommodation for one of them  whoseposting	 at Bombay was necessary.  Indeed the  affidavit  ofMr.  Nadkarni,	Accommodation Officer of the  Government  ofBombay,	 states that the official of the Corporation has  toperform	 his  duties  in  Bombay.   Having  regard  to	 theprovisions of section 19 (2) (a)   and	(b) of the Act,	 thepower in the Corporation27to  provide living accommodation for its employees  must  beregarded,  as one of its statutory  activities	undersection19(1).	Theword 'acquire' may include the power to  purchaseby agreement but is wide enough to enable the Corporation torequest	 the State Government to acquire property under	 theLand Acquisition Act (I of-] 894) in order to provide livingaccommodation  for  its employees.  The	 activities  of	 theCorporation under section 19 (1) are so interlinked with itssuccessful functioning as a Road Transport Corporation	thatrequisitioning	or  acquisition of property to	advance	 andensure	those  activities must be regarded as for  a  publicpurpose.  It would not be sufficient to merely establish theCorporation.   It  has	to have an  adequate  and  efficientstaff,	living	accommodation forwhom would be	an  absoluteneed  of the Corporation. Its officers have to be  efficientin  the discharge oftheir duties, for upon them depends	 thesuccessful  working of the road transport system upon  whichthe  public  must  rely and thus it would  be  directly	 andvitally	 concerned with the efficiency of 'the employees  ofthe Corporation.  It was suggested that a line must be drawnsomewhere, otherwise there was no guarantee to what  lengthsthe  powers  of	 requisition  might  be	 exercised  by	 theGovernment.   It is sufficient to say that each	 case  wouldhave to be decided upon the facts and the circumstances	 ap-pearing	 therein.  Here the Corporation is a public  utilityconcern	 and  the  general  interest  of  the  community  isdirectly  and vitally concerned with its activities and	 itsundertaking.   A  breakdown  in	 the  Organisation  of	 theCorporation,  leading to dislocation of the  road  transportsystem would create a chaotic condition to the detriment  ofthe   interest	 of   the   community.	  Providing   livingaccommodation  for its employees is a statutory activity  ofthe  Corporation and it is essential for it to provide	suchaccommodation in order to ensure an efficient working of theroad  transport system and it must, therefore, be held	thatthe impugned order was validly passed under the	 RequisitionAct.  In the result the appeal is allowed and the decision28of the High Court is set aside.Costs  in  the	appeal in this Court shall be  paid  by	 theappellant  to  the  respondent	as  directed  by  the  ordergranting Special Leave.	 Each party, however, will bear	 hisown costs in the High Court.