PETITIONER:MESSRS.	 SHALIMAR WORKS LIMITED.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/05/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1217		  1960 SCR  (1) 150ACT:Industrial		       Dispute-Reinstatement-Pendingadjudication--Illegal	 strike	   by	  workmen-Managementdischarging   workmen	without	 Permission   of   Tribunal-Reference,  delayed  and vague-Whether workmen	entitled  toreinstatement on such reference.HEADNOTE:On  March  23,	1948,  while  certain  disputes	 were  underadjudication  the workmen pressed the same demands upon	 thecompany for immediate solution without awaiting the award ofthe  tribunal.	The company refused to meet the demands	 andthereupon  the workmen went on an illegal  sit-down  strike.The company closed the works indefinitely and notified	thatall  those  workmen who had resorted to the  illegal  strikewere  discharged  from	that date.  On July  5	the  companynotified  that	the works would open on July 6 and  all	 oldemployees  could  apply for reengagement upto  July  21.   Amajority of them applied for being retaken and all those whoapplied upto July 21 were taken but those who applied  afterthat   date  were  refused.   On  November  18,	 1953,	 theGovernment made a reference in respect of the  reinstatementOf  250 old -workmen who had not been retaken.	No  list  ofthe 250 workmen was sent to the tribunal nor was such a listfiled even during the adjudication proceedings but after thearguments  on behalf of the company were over  a  carelesslyprepared  list Of 220 persons was filed before the  tribunalby  the workmen on December 14, 1953.  The Tribunal  orderedreinstatement without specifying who were to be	 reinstated.It  directed the company to give a general notice  notifyingthe  strikers to come and join their duties on a fixed	dateand to reinstate those who applied within the time  allowed.On appeal, the Labour Appellate Tribunal upheld the order ofreinstatement in respect Of 15 workmen only.Held, that there was no reason for ordering reinstatement ofany of the workmen-on such a vague reference made after suchan  unreasonable  delay.  It was  reasonable  that  disputesshould be referred as soon as possible after they had arisenand after conciliation proceedings had failed,	particularlyin cases of wholesale discharge of workmen followed by freshrecruitment  of labour.	 Though the workmen were  dischargedduring	the pendency of a dispute in violation of s.  33  ofthe Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the remedy of the workmenwas  to	 apply under s. 33-A of the Act; but  that  was	 notdone.  This defect in the discharge of the workmen could  beignored in the circumstances of this case on account of	 theillegal strike, the failure to151avail  of  the	remedy	under S.  33-A	and  the  delay	 andvagueness  of the reference which all show that the  workmenwere not interested in reinstatement.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 317 &	 318of 1950.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedthe 29th June 1955 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of Indiaat Calcutta in Appeals Nos.  Cal. 61 and 81 of 1954.N.   C. Chatterjee, S. N. Mukherjee and B. N. Ghose, for theappellants in C. A. No. 317 of 56 and respondent No. 1 in C.A. No. 318 of 56.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, A. K. Dutt and B. P.	 Maheshwari,for the appellants in C. A. No. 318 of 56 and respondents inC. A. No. 317 of 56.1959.  May 8. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO	 J.-These are two appeals by special  leave  againstthe same decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of  Indiain  a dispute between Messrs.  Shalimar Works  Ltd.,  Howrah(hereinafter called the company) and its workmen representedby two unions (hereinafter called the workmen).	 Appeal	 No.317  is	 by  the  company while appeal No.  318	 is  by	 theworkmen.  We shall dispose them of by one judgment.There was a dispute between the company and its workmen on anumber	of  matters  and  it  was  referred  to	 the   SixthIndustrial  Tribunal for adjudication by the  Government  ofWest  Bengal.  Only two matters now survive out of the	manyreferred  to the Tribunal, namely, (1) profit sharing  bonusand (2) reinstatement of 250 old workmen.We  shall  first deal with the question	 of  profit  sharingbonus.	 It  appears that the company had a  profit  sharingbonus  scheme in force on the following lines.	It  providedthat  after  making  certain deductions,  if  the  remainingprofit	was  between  Rs. 1,50,000  and	 Rs.  1,99,999,	 theworkmen	 would be entitled to quarter of a  month's  averagebasic pay as bonus, When the152remaining  profit  was	between	 Rs.  2-00  lakhs  and	 Rs.2,49,999,  the	bonus went up to half of a  month's  averagebasic  pay.   When  the remaining  profit  was	between	 Rs.2,50,000  and  Rs.  2,99,999,  the bonus  was  to  be  threequarters  of  a	 month's  average basic	 pay  and  when	 theremaining  profit  was Rs. 3 lacs or more the bonus  was  toequal one month's basic pay.  No bonus was to be paid if theprofit	was less than Rs. 1,50,000.  There  were  provisionsthat  the  full	 bonus would be paid to a  workmen  who	 hadattended 275 days in a year (inclusive of holidays and leavewith  pay) while those with less attendance were to be	paidproportionately with the condition that if the attendance ofany  workman was less than 100 days he would be entitled  tono bonus.  The workmen wanted this scheme to be revised	 andthe  main  revision they desired was that the  bonus  shouldbegin with a profit of Rs. 25,000 after the usual deductionswhen  it  would	 be  one  week's  wages	 and  should  go  onincreasing  till it came to three months' wages	 for  profitabove Rs. 1 lakh and upto Rs. 3 lakhs; thereafter it  shouldincrease further at the rate of 21 days' wages for each lakhover  3 lakhs.	This was opposed by the company, though	 thecompany	 agreed	 to a change in the quantum  of	 bonus	whenprofit	after deductions was Rs. 3 lakhs or above.   In	 thescheme	in force, the bonus was equal to one  month's  basicpay  when  the	profit was Rs. 3 lakhs	or  above,  with  nofurther	 increase  whatsoever be the profits.	The  companyagreed	to revise this term and suggested that	when  profitwas-(i)between Rs. 3 lakhs to Rs. 4 lakhs, bonus should be	fourweeks' wages;(ii) above Rs. 4 lakhs upto Rs. 5 lakhs, bonus should be fiveweeks' wages.(iii)above Rs. 5 lakhs, it should be six weeks'wagesThe Industrial Tribunal did not accept fully the contentionsof  either  party in this connection, though it	 varied	 thescheme in force in certain particulars.	 After the variationthe scheme was as below			    153For remaining profit after the usual deductions -(i)from	 Rs.80,000  to		bonus at the rate of one	 Rs.1,99,999,		week's average basic pay;(ii) from Rs.2-00 lakhs to	bonus at the rate of half	  Rs. 2,49,999,		of a month's average				      basic pay;(iii) from Rs.2-50 lakhs to	bonus at the rate of three-	   Rs. 2-99,999,	quarters of a month's				average basic.pay;(iv) from Rs. 3-00 lakhs to    bonus at the rate of four	  Rs. 4-00 lakhs,      weeks' average basic				      pay;(v) from above		       bonus at the rate of six     Rs.4-00 lakhs up	       weeks' average basic   toRs. 5-00 lakhs		   pay ; and(vi) from above		      bonus at the rate of two     Rs. 5-00 lakhs,	      months' average basic				 pay.The Industrial Tribunal	 also accepted 275 days'  attendancefor earning full    bonus and proportionate  bonus when	 theattendance     fell  below 275 days and the minimum  of	 100days' attendance for earning any bonus at all.	It also heldthat bonus for the years 1951 and 1952 should be paid at theexisting  rates while revised rates should be  applied	fromthe year 1953 onwards.Both  parties  appealed	 to the	 Labour	 Appellate  Tribunalagainst	 this  revision.   The	company	 contended  that  nogreater revision than what it had agreed to should have beenordered.  In the workmen's appeal it was contended that	 thescheme	put  forward  on  their	 behalf	 should	 have	beenaccepted.   They  further contended that  the  condition  ofminimum	 attendance for 100 days should not have  been	laiddown  and that the bonus for the years 1951 and 1952  shouldhave been awarded at the revised rates.The  Appellate Tribunal saw no reason to interfere with	 theaward  of  the	Industrial  Tribunal  in  this	respect	 anddismissed  the	appeals with one modification,,	 namely,  itadded that if in any year it was found154that  the  bonus worked out according to the  award  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunal was less than profit bonus,  calculatedaccording  to  the Full Bench formula evolved in  the  Mill-Owners'	 Association, Bombay v. The Rashtriya  Mill  MazdoorSangh,	Bombay (1), the workmen would be entitled  to  bonusunder the formula; otherwise they would get bonus under	 thescheme as modified by the Industrial Tribunal.,In  the	 appeals  before us, the company  has  attacked	 therevision  ordered  by  the Industrial  Tribunal,  which	 wasupheld	by  the Appellate Tribunal, as	also  the  conditionadded  by  the latter; while the workmen have  attacked	 thescale fixed by the Industrial Tribunal as also the order  ofpayment	 of bonus for the years 1951 and 1952, according  tothe  scheme in force before the revision by  the  IndustrialTribunal,  and	the conditions as  to  attendance.   Learnedcounsel for the parties, however, agreed before us that	 therevision  made by the Industrial Tribunal was acceptable  toboth  the  parties and that the condition laid down  by	 theAppellate  Tribunal  that where the bonus according  to	 thescheme	is less than the bonus worked out according  to	 theFull Bench formula that formula should be applied, should bedeleted.   In view of this agreed statement, we	 delete	 thecondition laid down by the Appellate Tribunal and order thatbonus  should  be  paid in accordance  with  the  scheme  asrevised by the Industrial Tribunal.  Learned counsel for theworkmen,  however,  urged that the condition as	 to  minimumattendance  of 100 days for entitlement to any bonus at	 alland  of	 minimum attendance of 275 days for  entitlement  tofull  bonus  was arbitrary and should be  set  aside.	Thiscondition  has	been  accepted by  both	 the  Tribunals	 andappears	 reasonable and we see no reason to  interfere.	  Itwas further contended that bonus for the years 1951 and 1952should have been ordered to be paid according to the revisedscheme.	  This	contention  was also negatived	by  the	 twoTribunals and we see no reason to differ from them.  The twoappeals	 therefore  with  respect  to  bonus  are  dismissedsubject to the modification given above.(1)  1950 L.L.J. 1247.			    155We  now	 come to the question relating to the  term  in	 thereference as to the reinstatement of 250 old workmen. it  isnecessary  to  state certain facts in this  connection.	  Itappears that a Major Engineering Tribunal was set up by	 theGovernment of West Bengal in October 1947 to decide disputesbetween	 major	engineering firms and  their  workmen.	 Thecompany as well as the workmen were parties to the  disputeswhich  was pending before that tribunal.  The issues  beforethat  tribunal	were  of a  very  comprehensive	 nature	 andincluded  all  kinds of disputes that  could  arise  betweenemployers  and	employees.   While  that  adjudication	 waspending	 the workmen suddenly pressed certain  demands	uponthe  company  for immediate solution  without  awaiting	 theaward  of  the	tribunal, even though  the  demands  so	 putforward	 were  under adjudication.   The  company  naturallyrefused	  to   meet  the  demands  when	 they	were   underinvestigation  by the tribunal.	 Consequently,	the  workmenwho  had come to work on March 23,1948, started	 a  sit-downstrike after they had entered the company's premises.	Thisstrike continued from March 23 to 27, and it was on March 27that  the  workmen  were ejected from the  premises  by	 thepolice according to the case of the company or were  inducedto leave the premises by the police according to the case ofthe workmen.  Anyhow, after the workmen left the premises on27th,  the  company gave notice on that day that  the  Workswould be 'closed indefinitely.	Another notice was given  bythe company on April 6, 1948, in which it was notified	thatall those who had resorted to illegal strike from March	 23,1948,  would  be deemed to have been  discharged  from	thatdate.	Thereafter no work was done till May 15,  1948.	  Onthat  date  the	 company gave a notice	that  if  sufficientsuitable men applied for employment on or before May 19, theworks  would be opened on a limited scale from May  20.	  Itseems,	however,  that	nothing came  out  of  this  notice.Eventually on July 5, the company gave another notice to theeffect that the works would reopen on July 6, 1948, and	 allold  employees	could  apply, and if  reengaged	 their	pastservices would156be  counted  and  their conditions of service  would  be  asawarded by the Major Engineering Tribunal, which, it  seems,had  given its award in the meantime.  It was also  said  inthe  notice  that  upto	 July 21,  the	company	 would	onlyconsider engagement of former employees and no fresh  labourwould be recruited till that date.  Thereafter the  majorityof the old workmen applied for being retaken in service	 andeveryone who applied upto July 21 was reengaged.  Thereafterthe company refused to reengage the old employees, a few  ofwhom  are  said to have applied in  November  and  December,1948, August, 1951, February, 1952 and January, 1953.It  appears  that in November, 1949,  the  Assistant  LabourCommissioner was moved by one of the trade unions about non-employment of 249 workmen.  He wrote to the company in	thatconnection  and	 it  replied  that  the	 workmen  had	beendischarged for having taken part in an illegal strike and itcould  not  see its way to reemploy them.  For a  long	timenothing	 seems to have happened thereafter till we  come  toOctober	 7,  1952, when the first reference  was  made	withrespect	 to  the  reinstatement of  250	 old  workmen.	 Theoriginal  reference was to the tribunal consisting  of	ShriS.K.  Niyogi.  That gentleman went on retirement  before  hecould  dispose	of the reference  and  consequently  anotherreference  was	made  on November 18, 1953  to	the  presenttribunal  consisting of Shri M.L. Chakraborty.	No  list  of250  workmen was sent to the Tribunal about whom it  was  toconsider  the question of reinstatement.  No list  of  theseworkmen was filed even before the Industrial Tribunal duringthe   adjudication  proceedings:  It  was  only	 after	 thearguments  on  behalf of the company were over	on  December14,1953,  that	a  list	 of  names  was	 filed	before	 theIndustrial  Tribunal.	This list consisted of	220  personsonly  though the reference was with respect to 250.  As	 hasbeen  pointed  out  by	the Appellate  Tribunal,  it  was  acarelessly prepared list in which some names were  repeated.Against	 some  serial numbers there were neither  names	 norticket	numbers.  In spite of this, the Industrial  Tribunalordered	 reinstatement	without specifying who	were  to  bereinstated; it really157did not know who were the persons to be reinstated.  What itdid  was to order the company in order that identity of	 theworkmen	 to  be reinstated might be established	 to  give  ageneral notice on its notice-board notifying the strikers tocome and join their duties on a fixed date and to  reinstatewhichever striker applied within the time allowed.This  award  of	 the Industrial Tribunal  has  been  rightlycriticised by the Appellate Tribunal, which has charactrizedthis  reinstatement as " vague and highly  objectionable  ".The Appellate Tribunal was of the view that " no award couldbe  so	loosely	 or vaguely made ". It further	went  on  toconsider whether identity could in any manner be fixed.	  Inthis connection it relied on the remarks made by the company(which had, however, objected to the production of the	listat that late stage) on this list under orders of the Indust-rial  Tribunal.	 From these remarks the	 Appellate  Tribunalcame to the conclusion that the identity of 115 workmen	 hadbeen  established.   It	 found	that 100  out  of  them	 hadwithdrawn their provident fund.	 It, therefore, held that sofar as these 100 were concerned, they accepted the order  ofdischarge because of the with. drawal of the provident	fundand no further relief could be granted to them.	 As for	 theremaining fifteen workmen, it pointed out that they had	 notwithdrawn  their  provident fund.   It,	 therefore,  orderedthese fifteen workmen to be reinstated.	 Finally, it orderedthat no compensation could be allowed to the workmen for theperiod	between	 their	discharge  and	their  reinstatementbecause	 of the delay on their part in asking  for  redress.The  reason which impelled the Appellate Tribunal  to  orderreinstatement  was that the notice of discharge dated  April6,  1948,  was not served on the  workmen  individually	 andthough	the  notice  of July 5, 1948,  inviting	 the  formerworkmen	 to  come  and	join  the  company  was	 given	widepublicity,   it	  was  also  not  served  on   the   workmenindividually.	According to the Appellate Tribunal,  "	 thenet  result  was that there was defective  communication  ofnotice	of discharge to the workmen and the notice  offeringreinstatement was not also sufficiently published to  enableit to hold158that  the  defect  was cured ". As to  the  sit-down  strikeitself, both the Tribunals were of the view that the  strikewas  the  result of pre-concerted action and  there  was  nojustification  for it when the matter was pending  before  atribunal for adjudication.  The plea of the workmen that thestrike resulted spontaneously because of the insult  offeredby  the manager to a deputation of the workmen on  March  23was disbelieved by both the Tribunals.The  main  contention  on  behalf of  the  company  in	thisconnection  is	that when both the Tribunals had  found	 thesit-down strike unjustified, they should have held that	 thecompany	 was  entitled	to discharge  the  workmen,  in	 theparticular  circumstances  of this case.  It is	 also  urgedthat  the  discharge  took -place in  April,  1948  and	 thecompany reopened in July, 1948; the reference of the  mattermore  than four years after without the list of the  workmensaid to have been discharged, was not proper.  On the  otherhand  it has been urged on behalf of the workmen that as  a,dispute was pending between the company and its workmen, thecompany	 could not discharge the workmen  without  obtainingpermission  of	the tribunal under s. 33 of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	and inasmuch as the notice of  discharge  ofApril  6, 1948, was given without obtaining the sanction  ofthe  tribunal before whom the dispute was then	pending,  itwas  a breach of s. 33 and therefore the order of  dischargebeing  in  breach  of  law the	-workmen  were	entitled  toreinstatement.There  is no doubt that strictly speaking the order  of	 thecompany	 discharging  its workmen on April 6, 1948,  when  adispute	 was admittedly pending was a breach of s. 33;	(seePunjab	National  Bank Ltd. v. Employees of  the  Bank,(1)).The remedy for such a, breach is provided in s. 33-A and  itcan be availed of by an individual workman.  If therefore itwas  felt  by the workmen who were discharged  on  April  6,1948,  that there was breach of s. 33 by the  company,	theyshould	have  applied individually or  collectively  to	 thetribunal under s. 33-A.	 None of them did this.	 It is	truethat some kind of letter was written to the Assistant(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 680.159Labour	Commissioner  in November, 1949, but that  was	alsovery late and nothing seems to have happened thereafter	 foralmost	another	 three years, till the first  reference	 wasmade  on  October  7, 1952.  It is true	 that  there  is  nolimitation  prescribed	for  reference	of  disputes  to  anindustrial  tribunal;  even so it is  only  reasonable	thatdisputes  should be referred as soon as possible after	theyhave arisen and after conciliation proceedings have  failed,particularly so when disputes relate to discharge of workmenwholesale,  as in this case.  The industry has to  carry  onand if for any, reason there has been a wholesale  dischargeof  workmen  and  closure of the industry  followed  by	 itsreopening  and fresh recruitment of labour, it is  necessarythat a dispute regarding reinstatement of a large number  ofworkmen	 should	 be  referred  for  adjudication  within   areasonable time.  We are of opinion that in this  particularcase the dispute was not referred for adjudication within  areasonable  time as it was sent to the	Industrial  Tribunalmore than four years after even reemployment of most of	 theold  workmen.  We have also pointed out that it was open  tothe  workmen themselves even individually to apply under  s.33-A in this case; but neither that was done by the  workmennor  was  the  matter referred	for  adjudication  within  areasonable time.  In these circumstances, we are of  opinionthat the tribunal would be justified in refusing the  reliefof  reinstatement to avoid dislocation of the  industry	 andthat  is  the  correct	order to  make.	  In  addition,	 thereference  in this case was vague inasmuch as the  names  of250 workmen to be reinstated were not sent to the IndustrialTribunal  and  no  list of these men was given	to  it	tillpractically  after the whole proceeding was over.  Even	 thelist  then supplied was so bad that the Industrial  Tribunaldid not think it worthwhile to act upon it, and directed thecompany	 to  give a notice to the strikers to  ask  for	 re-employment  within  a certain time.  This  the	company	 hadalready	 done on July 5, 1948.	That notice had gained	con-siderable  publicity,  for the majority of the	workmen	 didappear	thereafter  for re-employment by July  21.   In	 thecircumstances there was no reason for ordering160reinstatement  of  any one on such a vague  reference  aftersuch  an  unreasonable length of time.	The defect,  in	 theorder-of discharge of April 6, due to permission not  havingbeen  obtained under s. 33 can in the circumstances of	thiscase  be ignored on the ground that the workmen who did	 notrejoin	in July 1948, were not interested in  reinstatement:firstly, on account of the circumstances in which that ordercame  to be made after an illegal and  unjustified  sit-downstrike, secondly, because the workmen in their turn did	 notavail themselves of the remedy under s. 33-A which. was opento  them, and thirdly, because the reference was made  afteran  unreasonable length of time and in a vague	manner.	  Weare therefore of opinion that the Appellate Tribunal  shouldnot  have  ordered  the reinstatement of  even	the  fifteenworkmen	 in the circumstances as their case was exactly	 thesame  as  the  case of the hundred workmen,  except  in	 thematter of the withdrawal of the provident fund.After  the  application for special leave was  allowed	thisCourt made an order on September 26, 1955, that seven  days'wages  every  month  should be paid by the  company  to	 thefifteen	 workmen  who  had been ordered	 to  be	 reinstated.Learned	 counsel  for the company informs us that  of  thesefifteen,  only	seven have been turning up to  receive	thispayment	 while eight men never turned up.  This	 shows	thatthese eight are not interested in the reinstatement.  Of theremaining  seven, two, according to the learned counsel	 forthe  company, have obtained other jobs while one is said  tobe  a  member of Parliament.  The company  was	prepared  toreinstate,  out	 of human considerations,  the	other  four,though,	 it contends that legally and rightly so-it  is	 notbound to reinstate any one of these fifteen workmen.   Thesefour  workmen whom the company is prepared to take back	 areNitai Manji, Satya Charan Das, Mustafa Khan and Akil-ud-Din.The  appeal  of the company must therefore be  allowed	withrespect	 to  the  remaining eleven  workmen  who  have	beenordered	 to  be reinstated by the Appellate  Tribunal.	 Theorder  of the Appellate Tribunal will stand with respect  tothe four workmen named above in161view  of the company's willingness to take them	 back.	 Theappeal of the workmen on the question of reinstatment  failsand  is	 hereby dismissed.  We may, however, make  it  clearthat  payment made pursuant to the order of this Court	willnot  in	 any event be refundable or adjustable	towards	 thefuture wages of those workmen who will be reinstated by	 thecompany.Both the company and the workmen have raised other points intheir  respective  grounds of appeal; but as they  have	 notbeen pressed before us we need not say anything with respectto them.  In these circumstances we are of opinion that boththe parties will bear their own costs of this Court.			   Appeal  No. 317  allowed.			   Appeal  No. 318 dismissed.