PETITIONER:K.   S. SRINIVASAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:UNION OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:18/02/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  419		  1958 SCR 1295ACT:Union  Service,	 Termination of-Servant	 in  quasi-permanentstatus-Post  kept  in abeyance-Ordered to carry	 the  statuswhile officiating in new appointment under  misapprehension-Validity-Test-Consultation   with  Federal  Public   ServiceCommission,    if   mandatory-Servant,	 if   entitled	  toConstitutional	 Protection-Constitution  of   India,	Art.311(2)-Central	Civil  Services (Temporary  Service)  Rules,1947, rr. 3, 4 and 6(1).HEADNOTE:The  appellant held the post of a Public Relations  Officer,All  India Radio, and was declared to be in  quasi-permanentService	 under r. 3 Of the Central Civil Service  (TemporaryService)  Rules,  1949.	  As a measure of  war	economy	 theGovernment  decided to hold the post "in abeyance"  and	 theappellant  was appointed to officiate as  Assistant  StationDirector  in a temporary capacity and was ordered  to  carrywith  him his quasi-permanent status while holding  his	 newpost.	On  the	 objection  of	the  Union  Public   ServiceCommission,  however,  the  service  of	 the  appellant	 wasterminated  and	 lie was appointed to a	 temporary  post  ofAssistant  Information	Officer which belonged	to  a  lowergrade.	 The  appellant moved the High Court for a  writ  ofcertiorari.  His contention was that as, admittedly, he	 hadnot  been  called  upon to show cause, Art.  311(2)  Of	 theConstitution  was violated.  It was contended on  behalf  ofthe  respondent that the order permitting the  appellant  tocarry his quasi-permanent status to his new post having beenmade  under  a misapprehension that the	 post  of  AssistantStation	 Director belonged to the same grade as that of	 thePublic	Relations Officer, his service was terminable  underthe relevant Service Rules :Held (per Das, C. J., Venkatarama Aiyar, S. K. Das and A. K.Sarkar,	 JJ.   Bose,  J.  dissenting),	that  the  post	  ofAssistant Station Director was not a post in the same  gradeas  that  of  the Public Relations  Officer  and  under	 therelevant  Service  Rules  he  could  not  carry	 his  quasi-permanent  status to the new post; as the  order  permittingthe appellant to carry his quasi-permanent status was passedunder  a misapprehension and was not intended to  confer  onhim  that status independently in the new post, his  servicewas terminable under r. 6(1) of the Rules.It  is	well settled that if a servant has no right  to	 thepost  and  his service can be terminated under	the  ServiceRules,	Art.  311(2) is not  attracted.	  Consequently,	 theappellant who was appointed on a purely temporary  capacity,could not seek the protection of Art. 311(2).1296Parshotam Lal Dhingra v. Union of India, [1958] S.C.R.	828,relied on.Admission  is not conclusive proof of the  matter  admitted,although  it  may  in certain circumstances  operate  as  anestoppel.   In the present case, as the appellant was in  noway misled as to his quasi-permanent status by the erroneousorder  of  the	Government, no question	 of  estoppel  couldarise.Held,  further, that the word 'reduction' in cl (ii)  of  r.6(1)  of the Rules is not necessarily confined to  abolitionbut also includes keeping in abeyance of posts and the	word'certify' occurring therein does not necessarily imply	thata formal order is essential.The  same scale of pay is not the only test for finding	 outif  a particular post belongs to the same grade	 as  anotherwithin the meaning of the proviso to cl. (ii) of r. 6(1)  ofthe Service Rules, nor does the fact that the two belong  tothe same class determine the question.Quasi-permanent	 status	 is a creature of the  Rules  and  aservant	 who  seeks the benefit of r. 3 must be held  to  bebound by the proviso to r. 4(b) of the Rules.State  of U. P. v. Manbodhan Lal Srivastava,  [1958]  S.C.R.533, held inapplicable.Per  Bose,  J.-The order of the	 Government  permitting	 theappellant  to carry with him the quasi-permanent  status  hehad in his former post was clearly intended to confer on theappellant  quasi-permanent  status in his new post  and	 theGovernment could not be allowed to go back upon it  althoughit may have acted under a mistake, subsequently discovered.The  Commissioner  of Police, Bombay v.	 Gordhandas  Bhanji,[1952] S.C.R. 135, applied.Moreover, under r. 4(a) of the Rules the Government had	 thepower	to  confer  such  a  status  without  any   previousconsultation  with the Federal Public Service Commission  asrequired by r. 4(b) of the Rules, the words 'is required  tobe made' occurring in that rule being only directory and notmandatory.State  of U. P. v. Manbodhan Lal Srivastava,  [1958]  S.C.R.533, Biswanath Khemka v. The King Emperor, [1945] F.C.R.  99and  Montreal  Street Railway Company v.  Normandin,  [1917]A.C. 170, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION :Civil Appeal No. 78  of	1957and Petition No. 81 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember  25, 1955, of the Punjab High Court in	 Civil	WritNo. 209-D of 1955.1297K.S.  Krishnaswamy  Aiyanger and C. V. L. Narayan,  for	 theappellant.P.A.  Mehta,  R. Ganapathy Iyer and R. H.  Dhebar,  for	 therespondent.1958.  February 18.  The Judgment of Das C. J.,	 VenkataramaAiyar, S. K. Das and Sarkar, JJ., was delivered by S. K. DasJ. Bose J. delivered a separate judgment.S.K. DAS J.-On May 1, 1946, Shri K. S. Srinivasan, appellantbefore	us, was appointed to a post of Liaison Officer,	 AllIndia  Radio, on a pay of Rs. 350 per month in the scale  ofRs.  350-20-450-25/2-550.  The appointment was made  on	 therecommendation	 of   the  then	  Federal   Public   ServiceCommission,   and   the	 advertisement	or   memorandum	  ofinformation  for candidates, as it is more properly  called,issued	by  the Public Service Commission when	calling	 forapplications  for the said post, related to the	 recruitmentfor  nine  posts of Listeners' Research	 Officers  and	nineposts  of Liaison Officers, All India Radio.  It was  statedin  the	 said memorandum that the posts were  permanent	 andpensionable,  but would be filled on a temporary basis;	 thememorandum further stated that if the persons concerned wereretained  in service and confirmed in the posts, they  wouldbe allowed pensionary benefits and would also be eligible tocontribute  to	the General Provident Fund.   In  the  firstinstance  the  appointments were made on probation  for	 sixmonths	 subject  to  termination  on	certain	  conditionsmentioned  in para. 4 of the memorandum, which need  not  beset out at this stage.	The duties of a Liaison Officer werestated in para. 5 of the memorandum, the main duty being  toorganise and conduct publicity for the programmes and  otheractivities  of	a Radio Station.   The	designation  LiaisonOfficer	 was later changed to Public Relations Officer,	 andalong  with  other posts of Listener  Research	Officer	 andAssistant  Station Director, the posts of  Public  RelationsOfficers were upgraded to Rs. 450-25-500-30-800 with  effectfrom  January  1,  1947.   On May  23,	1952,  the  DirectorGeneral, All India Radio, passed an order bearing1298No.  2(1)A/50  in  which  it was  stated  that	whereas	 theappellant had been in continuous Government service for morethan three years and a declaration had been issued to him inpursuance  of  rr.  3 and 4 of the  Central  Civil  Services(Temporary Service) Rules, 1949, and whereas an	 appointmentto  the post of Public Relations Officer was required to  bemade   in  consultation	 with  the  Union   Public   ServiceCommission and their concurrence to the appointment had beenobtained,   the	 appellant  was	 appointed  to	the   PublicRelations Officer's grade in a quasi-permanent capacity witheffect from May 1, 1949.  On September 3, 1952, however, theappellant  received an order from the said  Director-Generalin  which  it  was stated that his  services  would  not  berequired after October 6, 1952.	 The appellant was naturallytaken  by  surprise  on receipt of this	 order	and  made  arepresentation on September 8, 1952, in which he stated thatas a quasi-permanent Public Relations Officer he had a claimto  an	alternative post in the same grade, so long  as	 anypost in the same grade was held by a Government servant	 notin  permanent or quasi-permanent service.  On September	 13,1952,  the appellant was informed by means of an order	thathe was appointed to officiate as Assistant Station Director,Madras	(the appellant was then working as Public  RelationsOfficer,  All  India Radio, Madras) in	a  purely  temporarycapacity  until further orders.	 On September 19, 1952,	 theappellant   was	 informed  that	 his  representation   datedSeptember 8, 1952, was under consideration and a  suggestionwas made that in the meantime he should apply for one of theposts	of  Assistant  Station	Directors  which  had	beenadvertised by the Union Public Service Commission.  Then, onOctober	  4,  1952,  the  appellant  submitted	 a   furtherrepresentation	in  which he said that under  the  rules  inquestion,  namely  the	Central	 Civil	Service	  (TemporaryService)  Rules,  1949, he was entitled to  be	retained  inservice	 in  a	post of the same grade and  under  the	sameappointing authority ; and it was, therefore, not  necessarythat  he  should  be reselected for the	 post  of  AssistantStation Director by the Union Public Service Commission, In1299the concluding paragraph of his representation the appellantstated	that  in  deference to the suggestion  made  in	 theletter of the Director-General dated September 19, 1952,  hewas  enclosing	an application to the Union  Public  ServiceCommission  for the post of Assistant Station  Director	 andif,  after due consideration, the  Director-General  decidedthat  the appellant should apply for the post  of  AssistantStation Director, his application should be forwarded to theUnion  Public  Service	Commission.   While  Government	 wasconsidering  the representation of the appellant, the  UnionPublic	Service	 Commission  interviewed  in  March,   1953,candidates  for	 the posts of Assistant	 Station  Directors.The  appellant appeared before the Commission on  March	 26,1953.	On April 18, 1953, the appellant was  informed	thatthe Union Public Service Commission had not selected him andthe  appellant was again informed that "it was not  possibleto  continue  him  in service."	 The  appellant	 made  freshrepresentations	 to the effect that the order purporting  toterminate  his service on the ground that the  Union  PublicService	 Commission  had not selected him for  the  post  ofAssistant Station Director, was an illegal order inasmuch asthe appellant held a quasipermanent status and was  entitledto hold a post in the grade of Assistant Station  Directors,as  long  as  anyone not  in  permanent	 or  quasi-permanentservice continued to hold such a post.	To these representa-tions  the  appellant received a reply to  the	effect	thatGovernment  had	 decided  to keep in abeyance  the  post  ofPublic	Relations Officer held by him and therefore  it	 wasnot  possible to retain him in that post and  the  appellantwas  given  an	opportunity to show cause  why	his  serviceshould	not  be terminated on the expiry of  the  period  ofnotice	with effect from Jul '18, 1953.	 A reply  was  askedfor  within 15 days.  In reply, the appellant again  pointedout  that having been given a quasi-permanent status he	 wasentitled to be retained in service under the rules governingGovernment servants holding such status, and the terminationof his service would be in violation of1651300Article	 311  of  the Constitution.  On July  3,  1953,	 theappellant  received a memorandum dated June 9,	1953.	Thismemorandum said: " Shri Srinivasan's representation has	 nowbeen  considered  by  Government.  As the  posts  of  PublicRelations  Officers  form a cadre by themselves and  do	 notbelong	to  the	 cadre of Assistant  Station  Directors,  hecannot claim any protection in the post of Assistant StationDirector  on account of his being quasi-permanent as  PublicRelations  Officer.  Shri Srinivasan may please be  informedaccordingly."On July 10, 1953, the appellant made a fresh representation,this  time  to the Secretary, Ministry of Home	Affairs,  inwhich  he repeated his former objections and contended	thatthe  proposed  termination  of his  service  was  irregular,unjust and illegal.  He submitted that the order terminatinghis  service  was  in  contravention  of  Art.	311  of	 theConstitution  and he further said that "though the posts  ofPublic Relations Officer and Assistant Station Director werenot  declared  to  be in the same cadre,  there	 can  be  nodispute	 that the posts are in the same grade.	" On  August17, 1953, the appellant received a memorandum to the  effectthat  the  notice  of  the termination	of  his	 service  asAssistant   Station  Director  dated  April  18,  1953,	  assubsequently  amended by corrigenda dated May  12,1953,	 andJuly  3,  1953, was withdrawn, and it also stated  that	 thenotice	dated  May 26, 1953, asking the	 appellant  to	showcause	why  his  service  should  not	be  terminated	 wascancelled.   This  was followed by an order  dated  December14,1953.  This order has in important bearing on the  pointsurged before us and must be quoted in full:" S. No. 41(R)		    Government of India,	     Director General, All India Radio.No. 1 (113)-SI/52.	      New Delhi,the 14th December, 1953.			   ORDER.In this Directorate Order No. 2(1)-A/50, dated the 23rd May,1952, Shri K. S. Srinivasan, then officiating			    1301Public Relations Officer, All India Radio, was appointed  tothat post in a quasi-permanent capacity with effect from the1st  May, 1949.	 Subsequently, in August 1952, all posts  ofPublic	Relations Officers, except the one in  the  ExternalServices  Division, were held in abeyance.  As the  post  ofPublic	Relations  Officer  belongs to	the  same  grade  asAssistant Station Director carrying identical scales of	 payShri Srinivasan was appointed Assistant Station Director  inthe  External  Services Division with effect from  the	22ndSeptember,  1952.   Under  the provision  contained  in	 theMinistry  of Home Affairs Office Memorandum No. 54/136	/51-NGS, dated the 24th April, 1952, Shri Srinivasan will  carrywith  him the quasi-permanent status of his former  post  ofPublic Relations Officer while holding the post of AssistantStation Director.(Sd.) M. Lal,Director-Geiieral."A  copy of the order was also sent to the  Secretary,  UnionPublic	Service	 Commission.  Unfortunately,  the  appellantsoon  found  that his troubles did not end  with  the  orderdated  December 14, 1953. On August 31, 1955, the  appellantwas   informed	 by  the  then,	 Secretary,   Miniistry	  ofInformation and Broadcasting, that the Union Public  ServiceCommission  had	 objected to his  appointment  as  AssistantStation Director, holding that such appointment was contraryto  the	 regulations; the appellant was then asked  that  heshould	relinquish the post of Assistant  Station,  Directorand accept a temporary post of Assistant Information Officerin  the Press Information Bureau or, in the alternative,  heshould	" clear out In may be stated here that the  post  ofAssistant  Information	Officer	 offered  to  the  appellantcarried	 a  scale  of pay lower than that  of  an  AssistantStation Director, namely Rs. 350-25-500-30-620.	 As this newoffer  deprived the appellant of his quasi-permanent  statusand also amounted to a reduction in his rank, the  appellantimmediately sent fresh representations to the Home Ministry,Director-General,  and	the  Minister  for  Information	 andBroadcasting.  On September 7, 1955, the appellant  receivedthe final order1302of  Government,	 which	is the order complained	 of  in	 thepresent appeal.	 That order was in these terms:" Shri Srinivasan was declared quasi-permanent in the  gradeof   Public   Relations	 Officer,  All	India	Radio	(Rs.450-25-500-EB-30-800)  with effect from the 1st	 May,  1949.In 1952, all the posts of Public Relations Officer exceptingone in the External Services Division were held in  abeyanceas  a  measure of economy. The only post that  survived	 theeconomy	 drive	was  assigned to  the  permanent  incumbent.ShriSrinivasan would have had to be retrenched in 1952;	 forquasi-permanency  does not preclude retrenchment  and  therewas  no	 other	officer in the	grade  of  Public  RelationsOfficer who was non-quasi-permanent and who could have	beendischarged  in	preference  to	him.   He  was	 irregularlytransferred  as	 Asst. Station Director, in  an	 officiatingcapacity.   He	applied for one of the	posts  of  AssistantStation	 Director  when they were advertised  by  the  UnionPublic	Service	 Commission  in	 1953,	but  was   rejected.Subsequently, lie was allowed to carry also irregularly, thequasi-permanent	 status	 in the grade  of  Public  RelationsOfficer	  while	 holding  the  post  of	 Assistant   StationDirector, vide Directorate General, All India Radio's  orderNo. I (I 13) 81/52 dated the 14th December, 1953.  The UnionPublic Service Commission have not accepted this transfer asit   is	 in  contravention  of	the  Union  Public   ServiceCommission  (Consultation) Regulations.	 Since he  has	beenrejected  for the post of Assistant Station Director  in  anopen  selection	 and  also since the  Union  Public  ServiceCommission have not accepted his transfer, the Government ofIndia  regret that they are unable to allow him to  continuein   the  post	of  Assistant  Station	Director.   He	 is,therefore,  required  to relinquish charge of  the  post  ofAssistant Station Director immediately." To save him the hardship of retrenchment, the question  ofoffering  Shri	Srinivasan alternative employment  has	beenconsidered.  There is no intention of reviving the posts  ofPublic Relations Officer that were held in abeyance in 1952.For publicity and1303public	relations  work of All India Radio, a few  poste  ofAssistant   Information	  Officer  in  the  scale   of	 Rs.350-25-500-EB-30-620 have been sanctioned on the strength ofthe  Press Information Bureau and it is proposed  to  absorbhim  on	 temporary basis, against one of these	posts.	 Theabsorption in this post also, is subject to the approval  bythe Union Public Service Commission to whom a reference	 hasbeen made.  Meanwhile, after relinquishing the charge of thepost of Assistant Station Director, he should report himselffor  duty  to  the  Principal  Information  Officer,   PressInformation Bureau, New Delhi.	The question of fixation  ofhis pav in the grade of Assistant Information Officer., Witha  view	 to protecting his present salary will be  taken  upafter he has joined duty"The  appellant continued to make some  more  representationswhich  were, however, rejected, and on October 11, 1955,  anorder  was  passed transferring the appellant to  the  PressInformation  Bureau  as	 officiating  Assistant	 InformationOfficer with immediate effect and the appellant was directedto  hand  over	charge	of the	post  of  Assistant  StationDirector immediately and to take over his post in the  PressInformation  Bureau forthwith.	The validity of this  order,which is also challenged in the present appeal,	 necessarilydepends on the validity of the earlier order dated September7, 1955.The appellant refused to accept the lower post of  AssistantPress  Information Officer and on October 19, 1955, he	madeover  charge  under  protest.  On  November  25,  1955,	 theappellant filed a petition, numbered Writ Petition 209-D  of1955  in  the Punjab High Court in which he prayed  for	 theissue of a writ of certiorari or any other appropriate	writfor quashing the ordersdated September 7, 1955, and October 11, 1955, andasked for an order directing his reinstatement as  AssistantStation	 Director in the External Services Division  of	 theAll  India  Radio, the post which he was  holding  when	 theorders	complained  of	were  passed.	This  petition	 wassummarily  dismissed  by the Punjab High Court on  the	samedate.  The appellant then13O4moved  the  said High Court for a certificate for  leave  toappeal	to this Court.	That application was also  dismissedon  March  16, 1956.  Thereupon, the  appellant	 moved	thisCourt for Special Leave and obtained such leave on April 23,1956.	While  moving  the application	for  special  leave,learned	 counsel  for  the  appellant  stated  that  withoutprejudice to the contentions of either party, the  appellantwould take up the  posts of Assistant Information Officer inthe Press Information Bureau pending disposal of the appeal.On April 22, 1956, the appellant also filed a petition underArt.  32  of  the  Constitution and  in	 this  petition	 theappellant  has challenged the order date September 7,  1955,on  the	 ground that the order violates	 the  provisions  ofArts. 14 and 16 of the Constitution.The present judgment will govern the appeal by special leaveas also the petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution.	  Itwill  be convenient to take up the appeal first.   The	mainquestion for decision in the appeal is whether the  impugnedorders	violate the constitutional guarantee given  by	Art.311 (2) to the appellant, who is admittedly the holder of  acivil  post under the Union.  The true scope and  effect  ofArt.  311  of  the Constitution was fully  considered  in  arecent	judgment of this Court in Parshotam Lal	 Dhingra  v.Union  Of India (1), pronounced on November 1, 1957, and  itwas  there held by the majority as follows ( we are  quotingsuch observations only as havea bearing on the present case):"  Shortly put, the principle is that when a servant  has  aright  to a post or to a rank either under the terms of	 thecontract  of  employment, express or implied, or  under	 therules	governing  the	conditions  of	his   service,	 thetermination  of	 the  service  of  such	 a  servant  or	 hisreduction  to  a lower post is by itself and prima  facie  apunishment, for it operates as a forfeiture of his right  tohold  that post or that rank and to get the  emoluments	 andother  benefits attached thereto, But if the servant has  noright  to  the	post, as where he is appointed	to  a  post,permanent(1)  [1958] S. C. R. 828.1305or temporary, either on probation or on an officiating basisand  whose temporary service has not ripened into  a  quasi-permanent  set-vice  as	 defined in  the  Temporary  ServiceRules,	the termination of his employment does	not  deprivehim  of	 any right and cannot, therefore, by  itself,  be  apunishment.    One   test  for	determining,   whether	 thetermination of the service of a government servant is by wayof  punishment is to ascertain whether the servant, but	 forsuch termination, had the right to hold the post.  If he hada  right  to  the post as in the  three	 cases	hereinbeforementioned, the termination of his service will by itself  bea  punishment and fie will be entitled to the protection  ofArt. 31 1. In other words and broadly speaking, Art. 311 (2)will apply to those cases where the government servant,	 hadhe been employed by a private employer, would be entitled tomaintain  an  action  for  wrongful  dismissal,	 removal  orreduction  in  rank.   To  put it in  another  way,  if	 thegovernment  has, by contract, express or implied, or,  underthe  rules,  the right to terminate the	 employment  at	 anytime,  then such termination in the manner provided  by	 thecontract  or  the rules is, prima facie and per	 se,  not  apunishment and does not attract the provisions of Art. 311."Therefore, the critical question is-did the appellant have aright  to the post of Assistant Station Director,  which  hewas  holding, when the impugned orders were passed ?  If  hehad  such a right, the impugned orders will  undoubtedly  bebad  because  they  deprive  the  appellant  of	 that  rightinasmuch  as they terminate his service in the post  he	 washolding	 and reduce him to a lower  post.   Admittedly,therewas  no	 proceeding against the appellant  for	disciplinaryaction	and he had no opportunity of showing  cause  againstany such action.  If, on the contrary, the appellant had  noright  to  the	post  he was holding  and  under  the  rulesgoverning  the	conditions of his service  his	service	 wasliable to be terminated, then the appellant is not  entitledto  the protection of Art. 31 1. On behalf of the  appellantthe  contention is that under the Civil Services  (TemporaryService) Rules, 1949 he held a1306quasi-permanent	 status	 in  the post  of  Public  RelationsOfficer to which he was first appointed and he carried	thatstatus to the post of Assistant Station Director to which hewas  later appointed; therefore, he had a right of which  hecould not be deprived except in accordance with those rules,and  the impugned orders were passed in derogation of  thoserules.	 Furthermore,  it  is contended	 on  behalf  of	 theappellant that the Union Public Service Commission failed toappreciate  the, correct legal position and  their  opinion,officious or otherwise, was neither decisive nor binding  onGovernment or the appellant.On  behalf of the Union of India, respondent before  us,  ithas been conceded that the Central Civil Services (TemporaryService)  Rules, 1949 are the relevant rules  governing	 theconditions of the appellant's service.	But the argument  isthat the impugned orders are in consonance with those  rulesand the service of the appellant who was in  quasi-permanentservice	 in the post of Public Relations Officer was  liableto termination under r. 6 (1) (ii), because (1) a  reductionhad  occurred  in the number of posts  of  Public  RelationsOfficers available for Government servants not in  permanentservice,  and (2) the post of Assistant Station Director  towhich  the  appellant was appointed in	a  purely  temporarycapacity  was not a post of the same grade as the  specifiedpost  held  by	the appellant so as to entitle	him  to	 thebenefit	 of the proviso to r. 6 (1) (ii).  On behalf of	 therespondent  it	has been further submitted  that  the  orderdated  December 14, 1953 was issued under a  misapprehensionand when the correct position was rightly pointed out by theUnion  Public  Service	Commission,  Government	 passed	 theimpugned order of September 7, 1955 and by way of mitigatingthe  hardship  of  the	appellant who  was  faced  with	 theprospect  of immediate unemployment offered him the post  ofAssistant  Information	Officers Post created for  the	per-formance  of  duties similar to those of the  whilom  PublicRelations Officer.These are the rival contentions which fall for considerationby us, We must at this stage read the			    1307relevant rules called the Central Civil Services  (TemporaryService)  Rules, 1949, hereinafter to be referred to as	 theTemporary Service Rules.  Rule 2 defines certain terms	usedin  the Temporary Service Rules.  We are concerned with	 twoof  such  terms-" quasipermanent service " and	"  specifiedpost ". " Quasipermanent service " means " temporary servicecommencing from the date on which a declaration issued underrule  3 takes effect and consisting of periods of  duty	 andleave (other than extraordinary leave) after that date " ; "specified  post	 "  means  " the  particular  post,  or	 theparticular  grade  of posts within a cadre,  in	 respect  ofwhich a Government servant is declared to be quasi-permanentunder  rule 3 ". Rule 3, which we must read in full,  is  inthese terms:"  A  Government  servant shall be deemed to  be  in  quasi-permanent service:(i)  if	 he  has been in continuous Government	service	 formore than three years, and(ii) if the appointing authority, being satisfied as to	 hissuitability  in	 respect of age,  qualifications,  work	 andcharacter for employment in a quasi-permatient capacity, hasissued a declaration to that effect, in accordance with suchinstructions as the Governor-General may issue from time  totime."Rules  4  and 6 (1) are also important for our	purpose	 andmust be reproduced in full."  Rule	 4.  (a) A declaration issued  under  rule  3  shallspecify the particular post or the particular grade of postswithin	a cadre, in respect of which it is issued,  and	 thedate from which it takes effect.(b)  Where recruitment to a specified post is required to bemade  in  consultation	with  the  Federal  Public   ServiceCommission no such declaration shall be issued except  afterconsultation with the Commission."" Rule 6. (1) The service of a Government servant in  quasi-permanent service shall be liable to termination-(i) in the same circumstances and in the same1661308manner as a Government servant in permanent service, or(ii) when the appointing authority concerned has  ,certifiedthat  a	 reduction  has	 occurred in  the  number  of  postsavailable for Government servants not in permanent service:Provided that the service of a Government servant in  quasi-permanent  service shall not be liable to termination  undercl. (ii) so long as any post of the same grade and under thesame appointing authority as the specified post held by him,continues  to  be  held	 by  a	Government  servant  not  inpermanent or quasipermanent service:Provided further that as among Government servants in quasi-permanent  service  whose specified posts are  of  the	samegrade  and under the same appointing authority,	 terminationof service consequent on reduction of posts shall ordinarilytake place in order of juniority in the list referred to inr. 7."As rule 6(1) refers to r. 7, we may as well quote thatrule."  Rule	 7.  (1) Subject to the provision of  this  rule,  aGovernment servant in respect of whom a declaration has beenmade  under  rule  3,  shall be	 eligible  for	a  permanentappointment on the occurrence of a vacancy in the  specifiedposts  which  may be reserved for being	 filled	 from  amongpersons in quasi-permanent service, in accordance with	suchinstructions  as  may be issued by the	Governor-General  inthis behalf from time to time.Explanation:-No	 such  declaration  shall  confer  upon	 anyperson a right to claim a permanent appointment to any post.(2)  Every  appointing authority shall, from time  to  time,after	consultation  with  the	  appropriate	DepartmentalPromotions   Committee,	  prepare  a  list,  in	  order	  ofprecedence,  of persons in quasi-permanent service  who	 areeligible  for a permanent appointment. In preparing  such  alist,  the  appointing	authority shall	 consider  both	 theseniority and the merit of the1309Government  servants concerned.	 All permanent	appointmentswhich are reserved undersub-rule(1) under the control of anysuch appointing authority shall. be made in accordance	withsuch  list:  Provided  that the Government  may	 order	thatpermanent  appointment	to  any grade or post  may  be	madepurely in order of seniority."Now,  it  is beyond dispute and in fact, admitted  that	 theappellant  held	 a quasi-permanent status in  the  grade  ofposts  known as Public Relations Officers.  The order  datedMay  23, 1952, stated in clear terms that (i) a	 declarationhad been issued in respect of the appellant in pursuance  ofrr. 3 and 4 of the Temporary Service Rules, (ii) concurrenceof the Union Public Service Commission had been obtained and(iii)  the grade of posts in respect of which the  appellantheld   quasi-permanent	status	was  the  Public   RelationsOfflcers grade.	 Under r. 4 a declaration issued under r.  3shall  specify the particular post or the particular  gradesof posts within a cadre in respect of which it is issued andthe  date from which it takes effect.  A 'cadre',  accordingto Fundamental Rule 9(4), means the strength of a service ora  part	 of a service sanctioned as a separate	unit.	Someindication of what is meant by a grade can be obtained	fromart.  29  of  the Civil Service	 Regulations:  that  articlestates-"  29.	Grade and Class-Appointments are said to be  in	 thesame  "	 Class " when they are in the same  Department,	 andbear  the  same designation, or have; been declared  by	 theGovernment  of India to be in the same class.	Appointmentsin  the	 same  class are  sometimes  divided  into  "Grades"according  to pay.  Note:-Appointments do not belong to	 thesame Class or Grade unless they have been so constituted  orrecognised  by	proper authority.  There are no	 Classes  orGrades of Ministerial Officers."It  is, therefore, clear that so far as the posts  known  asPublic	Relations Officers, All India Radio, are  concerned,they formed a grade and the appellant held a quasi-permanentstatus	in  that grade. Rule 6(1) of the  Temporary  ServiceRules lays1310down  how  the	service of a Government	 servant  in  quasi-permanent  service can be terminated.  We are  concerned  inthis case with cl. (ii) of the said rule.  That clause	saysthat the service of a Government servant in  quasi-permanentservice	 can be terminated " when the  appointing  authorityconcerned has certified that a reduction has occurred in thenumber	of  posts available for Government servants  not  inpermanent  service ". Learned counsel for the appellant	 hasvery  strongly submitted that there was no reduction  withinthe meaning of the clause in the present case, far less	 anycertification  of such reduction.  Learned counsel  for	 therespondent  has urged with equal vehemence that there was  areduction   within  the	 meaning  of  the  clause  and	 theappointing authority had certified such reduction.Before considering the true scope and effect of the relevantclause,	 it  is	 necessary  to say a  few  words  about	 theTemporary  Service Rules.  At the same time the	 Rules	werepublished,  Government also issued a memorandum	 explanatoryof  the Rules.	It was therein stated that the term  'quasi-permanent'  service  had  been evolved with  the  object  ofattaching  certain benefits to such service and with  regardto  r.	4(a)  the memorandum stated-,,	Under  Rule  4(a)  aGovernment servant has to be declared as quasi-permanent  inrespect of a particular post; such a post may be an isolatedone  or	 it may be a post in a cadre consisting	 of  severalposts.	 In  case  where a cadre is split  up  into  severalgrades it may belong to one such grade within the cadre.   AGovernment  servant  who is declared as	 quasi-permanent  inrespect of a particular post may be shifted from one post toanother within the cadre or grade concerned due to reductionin post or other causes.  Such shifting does not affect	 hisrights."  As  to r. 6(1) the memorandum gave  the  followingexplanation: This rule relates to the security of tenure  ofa  quasi-permanent Government servant.	It should  be  notedthat except in the event of reduction in the number of postsin the cadre or grade concerned, the termination of  serviceof a quasi-permanent Government servant will have to be madein the same manner1311as the case of permanent Government servants For example, ifthe services are to be terminated on grounds of indisciplineor  inefficiency, it will be necessary to  institute  formalproceedings  against him.  He has also got a superior  rightof  retention  in  service over	 that  of  purely  temporaryemployees, in the grade in which he is quasi-permanent.The  question  before us is whether the	 impugned  order  ofSeptember  7,  1955, was in consonance with r.	6(1).	Thisquestion has two aspects-first, the true scope and effect ofel. (ii) and second, the effect of the proviso thereto.	  Wetake  up  first	 cl. (ii).  Was there  a  reduction  in	 thepresent case within the meaning of cl. (ii) ? We think	thatthe  answer must be in the affirmative.	 In the order  datedDecember  14,  1953,  which was an order in  favour  of	 theappellant,  it was clearly stated that in August  1952,	 allthe  posts of Public Relations Officers, except the  one  inthe  External services Division, were held in abeyance.	  Inthe impugned order of September 7, 1955, it was stated	thatin 1952 all the posts of Public Relations Officers exceptingone in the External Services Division were held in  abeyanceas a measure of economy and the only post that survived	 theeconomy drive was assigned to a permanent incumbent.  In hisrepresentation	dated July 10, 1953, the  appellant  himselfadmitted  that	as per Director General, All  India  Radio'smemorandum dated May 21, 1953, he was informed that " it wasdecided to keep the post in abeyance ". Learned counsel	 forthe  appellant	has  sought to draw  a	distinction  between'keeping  a post in abeyance' and 'reducing a post' and	 hassuggested that the latter expression means abolishing a postpermanently  or	 temporarily whereas the  former  expressionmerely	suggests  not filling the post for the	time  being.Words  and phrases necessarily take their meaning  from	 thecontext in which they are used.	 In cl. (ii) the  expressionused  is " reduction...... in the number of posts  availablefor  Government servants not in	 permanent  service."Learnedcounsel for the respondent has rightly pointed out that	 theentire clause should be read to understand what is meant  byreduction, and1312in  that context, reduction is not necessarily	confined  toabolition,   permanent	or  otherwise.	 He  has  given	  anillustration  to  clarify  the	meaning.   Assume  that	 thepermanent holder of a post goes on deputation; the post thenbecomes available for temporary or quasi-permanent officers.When,  however, the permanent man returns  from	 deputation,there  is a reduction in the number of posts  available	 forGovernment servants not in permanent service.  We agree withlearned	 counsel for the respondent that the word  reductionin  the context of cl. (ii) is not necessarily	confined  toabolition,  and	 keeping  certain posts	 in  abeyance  comeswithin	the expression.	 It may be further pointed out	thatin  the	 order of September 7, 1955, it was  clearly  statedthat  Government had no intention of reviving the  posts  ofPublic	Relations  Officers  kept in  abeyance	since  1952;therefore,  for all practical purposes the posts  have	beenabolished.We  do	not  think  that there is  any	charm  in  the	word'certifies' which occurs in cl. (ii).  It is clear that	 theappellant  was	informed,  as far back as May,	1953,  by  amemorandum from the appointing authority that it was decidedto  keep  the post (which the appellant held)  in  abeyance.There is nothing in the clause which prevents the appointingauthority  from certifying by means of a memorandum  insteadof by a mere formal order.Now,  we  come	to the far more important  question  of	 theeffect	of  the proviso to cl. (ii).  The crucial  point  inthat  connection  is whether the post of  Assistant  StationDirector,  to which the appellant was appointed in a  purelytemporary capacity on September 13, 1952, was a post  withinthe  same  grade or cadre as the posts of  Public  RelationsOfficer.   If  it is in the same grade or  within  the	samecadre, the appellant will retain his quasi-permanent  statusand  the  shifting,  to use the	 words	of  the	 explanatorymemorandum quoted earlier, will not affect his rights.	Thispoint  has  caused ,us considerable anxiety, and on  a	verycareful	 consideration we have reluctantly  but	 ineluctablycome to the conclusion that the post of Assistant Station			    1313Director  is not in the same grade or cadre as the posts  ofPublic Relations Officers.On  this  point	 it is necessary to refer  to  some  earlierhistory regarding the reorganisation of the All India  Radioin 1944.  The reorganisation, as enunciated in letter No. K-404/2397  dated December 15/28, 1944 from the Government  ofIndia,	Ministry  pf Information and  Broadcasting,  was  inthree  parts: (1) revision of the scales of pay	 of  certainexisting posts ; (2) creation of some additional posts;	 and(3) creation of certain new categories of posts.  The  postsof  Liaison  Officer and Listeners'  Research  Officer	camewithin the third category and nine posts were created  undereach  head.  The posts of Assistant Station  Directors	camewithin	the first two categories.  In 1950  Government	madenecessary  declaration	in  respect of	the  cadres  on	 theprogramme  side of the All India Radio in their	 letter	 No.17(83)/49-BI   dated   March  20,  1950.   The	 cadres	  soconstituted  included that of Assistant Station Directors  :that  cadre consisted of the following posts: (a)  AssistantStation	  Directors;   (b)  Instructor	 (Programmes);	 (c)Assistant  Director  of Programmes;  (d)  Listener  ResearchOfficer;  (e)  Officer on Special Duty	(Kashmir);  and	 (f)Officer	 Special Duty (Hyderabad)-the last two being  tempo-rary.	The  Public Relations Officers were not put  in	 thecadre  of  Assistant Station Directors.	  Exactly  the	sameposition  is  envisaged	 in paragraph  129  of	Chapter	 IV,Section 1, of the A. 1. R. Manual, Vol. 1. Under FundamentalRule 9(31)(c) a " post is said to be on the same  time-scaleas  another post on a time-scale if the two time-scales	 areidentical  and the posts fall within a cadre, or class in  acadre,	such cadre or class having been created in order  tofill  all posts involving duties of approximately  the	samecharacter  or  degree  of responsibility, in  a	 service  orestablishment, or group of establishments".  It is worthy ofnote   that  two  conditions  must  be	fulfilled  for	 theapplication  of Fundamental Rule 9(31)(c): one is  that	 thetwo time scales must be identical and the other is that	 thetwo  posts must fall in the same cadre or class in a  cadre.Paragraph 129 referred to above states in terms that1314only four categories of posts mentioned therein fall  withinthe   cadre  of	 Assistant  Station  Directors,	 and   thosecategories   do	 not  include  Public  Relations   Officers.Learned	 Counsel  for  the  appellant  has  referred  us  toAppendix I of the A. I. R. Manual, Vol. 11, which gives	 thescales	of pay and classification of posts in the All  IndiaRadio.	 He has pointed out that in that appendix the  postsof  Assistant Station Directors (no. 77), Listener  ResearchOfficer	 (no. 78) and Public Relations Officer (no. 79)	 allcome  within Central Services, Class II, and bear  the	samescale of pay and they also belong to the Programme side.  Wehave  already pointed out that the same scale of pay is	 notthe  only  test;  nor  does the	 fact  that  all  the  abovementioned  posts belong to Class 11 determine  the  questionwhether	 they  belong to the same grade or cadre.   We	havereferred  to  the  constitution of the	cadre  of  AssistantStation	 Directors in 1950, which shows clearly enough	thatPublic Relations Officers do not belong to that cadre.	Manyanomalous  results  will  follow  if the  scale	 of  pay  orclassification	of  the service, were taken to be  the	soletest  for determining whether the posts belong to  the	samegrade or cadre.	 The appendix referred to by learned counselfor the appellant shows that the post of Assistant  Directorof Monitoring Services bears the same scale of pay and	alsobelongs to Class 11 ; yet it is not suggested that that posthas any cadre or grade affinity with the posts of  AssistantStation	 Directors.   A chemist (no. 106) and  an  AssistantEngineer  (no.	105) have the same scales of  pay  and	bothbelong to Class 11; but they do not belong to the same gradeor  cadre; otherwise a strange result will follow in that  achemist holding a quasi-permanent status will be entitled tobe  appointed  as  an  Engineer, on  the  reduction  of	 thechemist's post.On behalf of the appellant it has been next argued that	 theorder dated December 14, 1953, contains a clear admission tothe effect that the post of Public Relations Officer belongsto  the	 same grade as Assistant Station Director,  and	 theorder  shows that it was made after unofficial	consultationwith the Ministry			    1315of  Information an Broadcasting.  It is contended that	thisadmission  should  be accepted as an admission of  fact	 andheld  binding  on  the	respondent,  particulary  when	 therespondent has not produced the particular order by which  aseparate  cadre, if any, of Public Relations Officers  mighthave  been created, in order to disprove the correctness  ofthe  admission.	 We are unable to accept this argument.	  Anadmission  is not conclusive proof of the  matter  admitted,though	it  may	 in  certain  circumstances  operate  as  anestoppel.   It is not suggested that a question of  estoppelarises	in  this case (a point which we shall  again  advertto); at best, it may be said that the respondent having onceadmitted that the post of Public Relations Officer  belongedto  the same grade, the admission casts upon the  respondentthe burden of proving that what was deliberately asserted onDecember  14, 1953, is not a fact.  It is  unfortunate	thatthis case was summarily dismissed in the High Court and	 therespondent was not called upon to make an affidavit and filethe  necessary documents at that stage.	 We have now a	copyof  the letter dated December 15/28, 1944 by which the	ninenew  posts  of Liaison Officer (later designated  as  PublicRelations  Officer) were created and the letter dated  March20, 1950, by which the cadre of Assistant Station  Directorswas  declared.	These letters we have already  referred	 to,and  they  leave little room for doubt in the  matter:	theyshow  clearly  enough  that the posts  of  Public  Relations'Officers  do not belong to the same grade or cadre  as	 theposts of Assistant Station Directors.  As a matter of fact.-the  respondent said so in the memorandum of June  9,  1953,though	later, on December 14, 1953, a	different  statementwas made.  It has been submitted before us that even in	 theimpugned order of September 7, 1955, the respondent does notsay  that a mistake was made; the respondent  merely  statesthat the appellant was' irregularly transferred as AssistantStation	 Director  and was irregularly allowed to  carry  a,quasi-permanent	 status to the new post.  We think that	 theimpugned order of September 7, 1955, must1671316be  read as a whole, and so read, it shows  that  Governmenthad  earlier  made a mistake in thinking that the  posts  ofPublic	Relations  Officers belonged to the  same  grade  orcadre  as the posts of Assistant Station Directors, and	 themistake	  was  rectified  when	the  Union  Public   ServiceCommission pointed it out.We  shall  now consider the further question  if  the  orderdated  December	 14,  1953, can be read	 as  a	separate  orindependent  declaration  in  favour  of  the  appellant  inrespect of the post of an Assistant Station Director,  underrr.  3	and 4(a) of the Temporay Service  Rules.   We  shallconsider this question from four points of view: (1) whetheron  the	 terms	of the order itself, it can be	read  as  anindependent  declaration  under	 the  relevant	rules;	 (2)whether	 the  relevant authority intended the  order  as  anindependent  declaration  under rr. 3 and 4(a)	and  if	 theparties	 thereto understood the order in that sense; (3)  ifthe  order is so read, whether consultation with the  PublicService	 Commission  was necessary under r.  4(b);  and	 (4)whether any estoppel arises out of the order.it seems to us that the order itself is very clear and if itis contrasted with the earlier order dated May 23, 1952	 (bywhich  a  declaration  was  indeed made	 in  favour  of	 theappellant  under rr. 3 and 4 of the Temporary Service  Rulesin  respect of the post of Public Relations Officer), it  isat once clear that the order dated December 14,1953, is	 nota  declaration	under rr. 3 and 4 of the said  rules.	Whatdoes the order state in terms ? Firstly, it states that	 theappellant was appointed in a quasi-permanent capacity to thepost  of Public Relations Officer; secondly, it states	thatall the posts of Public Relations Officer are held in  abey-ance  except  one; thirdly, it states that as  the  post  ofPublic	Relations  Officer  belonged to the  same  grade  asAssistant Station Director carrying identical scales of pay,the appellant was appointed as Assistant Station Director inSeptember  1952;  and  fourthly, it states  that  under	 theinstructions  contained	 in a particular  office  memorandumissued	from the Ministry of Home Affairs the appellant	 wasentitled   to  carry  the  quasipermanent  status   of	 hisformerpost of Public Relations			    1317Officer	 while holding the post of Assistant Station  Direc-tor.   The  order  means what it in terms  states  and	mustoperate according to its tenor; and if the order is read  asa  whole, without straining or perverting the  language,  itseems  clear that it is not a declaration under rr. 3 and  4of  the Temporary Service Rules.  It merely gives effect  tothe  instructions  contained in the Home  Office  memorandumreferred to therein and states that the appellant will carrywith him his quasipermanent status of the former post  whileholding	 the  post  of Assistant Station  Director.   It  isobvious	 that  there  cannot  be  a  declaration  of  quasi-permanent  status  in  two  posts  of  different  grades  ordifferent  cadres simultaneously and at the same time.	 Theorder  dated  December 14, 1953, makes it  abundantly  clearthat  the appellant retained his quasi-permanent  status  inthe  former  post  of Public Relations Officer	and  on	 themistaken  view	that the post of  Public  Relations  Officerbelonged to the same grade as Assistant Station Director, hewas  allowed to carry the same status while holding the	 newpost.  This is sufficiently borne out by a reference to	 theHome Office memorandum No. 54/136/51 N.G.S. dated April	 24,1952,  a  copy	of which has been placed  before  us.	Thatmemorandum said, " The undersigned is directed to say that aquestion   has	 been  raised  whether	 a   quasi-permanentGovernment  servant on transfer from one office to  another,should	be allowed to retain a lien on the post to which  hehas  been  appointed  in  a  quasi-permanent  capacity.	   Areference in this connection is invited to subparagraph	 (c)of the Explanatory Memorandum of Rule 2 of the Central CivilServices  (Temporary  Service) Rules, 1949,  under  which  agovernment  servant  who is declared as	 quasi-permanent  inrespect of a particular post can be shifted from one post toanother within the cadre or grade concerned due to reductionor other causes without his rights being affected.  In otherwords, if a quasi-permanent employee is transferred from oneoffice to another within the same grade, he will carry	withhim  his quasipermanent status.	 " The order dated  December14, 1953, purported to give effect to the decision embodied			    1318in  the	 aforesaid  memorandum,	 and  was  in  no  sense  anindependent  declaration under rr. 3 and 4 of the  TemporaryService	 Rules.	  If it were an independent  declaration  inrespect	 of  a different and new post, a  reference  to	 theoffice	memorandum  was wholly unnecessary; it	was  equallyunnecessary  to	 recite	 that the appellant  held  a  quasi-permanent status in his former post and that the former postbelonged  to the same grade as the new post and,  therefore,he  carried  his former status to the latter post.   In	 theorder itself there is no reference to rr. 3 and 4 and it  isin sharp contrast to the order dated May 23, 1952, which wasindeed a declaration under the said rules.  To hold that theorder dated December 14, 1953, is an independent declarationunder  rr. 3 and 4 is to tun counter to the entire tenor  ofthe document.It  is	worthy	of note that under r.  4(a),  a	 declarationissued	under  r.  3 shall specify the	particular  post  orparticular grade of posts within a cadre in respect of whichit, is issued and the date from which it is to take  effect.The order dated December 14, 1953, does not ,state that	 theappellant  is declared to hold a quasipermanent status	withregard	to  the post of Assistant Station  Director  on	 thecontrary,  it,	states that he carries with him	 the  quasi-permanent  status  of his former post.	If the	order  datedDecember  14,  1953,  were  an	independent  declaration  inrespect of the post of Assist-ant Station Director, it wouldhave specified that post and also the date with effect	fromwhich  the order was to take effect in regard to that  post.We are therefore satisfied that the order dated December 14,1953 cannot, on its terms, be treated as a declaration underrr. 3 and 4 of the Temporary Service Rules.It may be stated here that learned counsel for the appellantdid not urge that the order dated, December 14, 1953, was anindependent declaration under rr. 3 and 4 or that his clientunderstood the order in that sense.  It is also evident fromthe various documents in the record that the order was neverintended  to  be  a declaration under rr. 3  and  4  of	 theTemporary -Service Rules; and the appellant himself took the			    1319order as merely giving effect to the office memorandum citedtherein,  the main plank of the appellant's case being	thatthe post of Assistant Station Director is in the same  gradeas the post of Public Relations Officer.  The appellant	 wasappointed  to officiate as Assistant Station Director  in  apurely temporary capacity until further orders on  September13, 1952,.  Even before that date the appellant was asked toapply for the post of an Assistant Station Director  throughthe Public Service Commission.	On June 9, 1953, long  afterthe  appellant had been appointed to officiate as  AssistantStation	 Director, he was told that he could not claim	,anyprotection  in	the post of Assistant  Station	Director  onaccount	 of his quasi-permanent status as  Public  RelationsOfficer.    Even  in  the  letter  which  the  Ministry	  ofInformation  and  Broadcasting wrote to the  Public  ServiceCommission  on	June  22,  -1954,  it  was  stated:  "	 TheCommission  were  not consulted at the time of	shifting  ofquasi-permanent status of Shri Srinivasan from the grade  ofPublic	Relations  Officer  to	that  of  Assistant  StationDirector  in view of the Provision of sub-para. (c)  of	 theExplanatory  Memorandum	 of  Rule 2  of	 the  Central  CivilService	 (Temporary  Service)  Rules  which  states  that  aGovernment  servant  who is declared as	 quasi-permanent  inrespect of a particular post may be shifted from one post toanother within the cadre or grade concerned due to reductionin the number of posts or other causes.	 Such shifting	doesnot  affect his rights.	 As the posts of  Assistant  StationDirector  and Public Relations Officer carry the same  gradeof  pay, consultation with the Commission in this  case	 wasnot considered necessary ". This letter makes it  abundantlyclear  that  the appropriate authority	never  intended	 theorder dated December 14, 1953 to be a declaration under	 rr.3 and 4 of the Temporary Service Rules.Even the appellant did not take the order in that sense.  Inall  his representations, the appellant's plea was that	 thepost of Public Relations Officer in which ,he, held a quasi-permanent status was in the same grade as that of  AssistantStation Director and there,fore he carried his status in theformer post to his new1320post.	He  never  pleaded anywhere  that  the	order  datedDecember 14,1953, was an independent declaration in  respectof  the post of Assistant Station Director.  We refer  firstto  para. 17 of the appellant's writ petition to the  PunjabHigh  Court.  In that paragraph the appellant said:  "	Thatafter  four  months' careful ,consideration  and  discussionbetween	 the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting,	HomeMinistry and the Union Public Service Commission, Governmentissued an order dated 14-12-53 declaring that the petitionerwill  carry  quasi-permanent  status  in  his  new  post  ofAssistant  Station  Director as per rules  relating  to	 thetransfer of quasi-permanent officers.  " In paragraph 30 theappellant  again stated that the post of  Assistant  StationDirector  and Public Relations Officer were constituted	 andrecognised to be in the same grade and under r. 2(c) of	 theTemporary  Service  Rules  the shifting	 from  one  post  toanother	 in  the same grade did not affect  his	 status;  inother  words, the appellant also understood the order  datedDecember 14, 1953, not as an independent order declaring hisquasi-permanent	 status	 in the post  of  Assistant  StationDirector,  but	merely as giving effect to r.  2(c)  of	 theTemporary  Service  Rules by reason of the fact,  which	 nowappears	 to be incorrect, that the post of Public  RelationsOfficer	 was in the same grade as that of Assistant  StationDirector.  Even in his statement of the case, the  appellantstated-"  It may be emphasised that the Government in  theirorder  dated  14-12-53	reiterated  the	 appellant's  quasi-permanent status in the post of Assistant Station  Director,not  on the basis of the appellant's representation  but  onthe  authority of the Home Ministry's order  No.  54/136/51.NGS,  dated 24-4-52 relating to the lien  of  quasipermanentemployees  ".  The reference to the Home  Ministry's  officememorandum  shows  how the appellant  understood  the  orderdated December 14, 1953.Rule  4 (b) of the Temporary Service Rules states that	whenrecruitment  to a specified post is required to be  made  inconsultation   with  the  Public  Service   Commission,	  nodeclaration  under  rr. 3 and 4 (a) shall be  issued  exceptafter consultation with the1321Commission.   In the view which we have taken of  the  orderdated  December	 14,  1953, it is not  really  necessary  todecide	in the present case whether the provisions of  r.  4(b) are merely directory or mandatory.	It is sufficient  tostate  that the Public Service Commission was not  consultedbefore	the order dated December 14, 1953, was	issued,	 andthe  appointing	 authority  did not intend the	order  as  adeclaration  under  rr. 3 and 4 (a).  In State of U.  P.  v.Manbodhan  Lal	Srivastava  (1) it has been  held  that	 theprovisions  of	Art.  320(3)(c)	 of  the  Constitution,	  asrespects  consultation of the Public Service  Commission  onall  disciplinary  matters affecting a	person	serving	 theGovernment of India or a State Government, are not mandatoryin  spite  of the use of the word I  shall'  therein.	Thatdecision  is  founded  on the following	 garounds:  (1)	 theproviso	 to Art. 320 itself indicates that in certain  casesor  classes of cases the Commission need not  be  consulted;(2)  the requirement of consulting the Commission  does	 notextend	to  making the advice of the Commission	 binding  onGovernment  as respects disciplinary matters; and (3)  on  aproper	construction of the Article, it does not confer	 anyright or privilege on an individual public servant.  We	 maypoint out that none of these grounds have any application sofar as r. 4 (b) of the Temporary Service Rules is concerned.Article	 320 may not be mandatory as against the  President;but  a	subordinate appointing authority who has to  make  adeclaration  under the rules cannot ignore or  abrogate	 thevery  rules  under  which he has to  make  the	declaration.Quasi-permanent	 status is a creature of the rules, and r  4(b)  requires that no declaration under r. 3 shall  be	madeexcept after consultation with the Public Service Commission(when recruitment to a specified post is required to be madein  consultation  with the Public Service  Commission).	  Anofficer	 cannot claim the benefit of r. 3 and ignore at	 thesame  time  the condition laid down in r. 4  (b);  in  otherwords,	he cannot claim the benefit of a part of  the  rulesand refuse to be bound by the conditions of the other part.(i)  [1958] S.C.R. 533.1322'Now,  as to estoppel: in our view, the appellant  was'	 notmisled in any way as to his quasi-permanent status a  statuswhich  he undoubtedly held in the post of  Public  RelationsOfficer; the mistake that was made was in thinking that	 thepost of Assistant Station Director was in the same grade  asthat  of Public Relations Officer and then giving effect  tothe  Home office memorandum, referred to previously, on	 thebasis of that mistake.	We do not think that any question ofestoppel  really arises, and in fairness to learned  counselfor the appellant it must be stated that he has not  foundedthe case on estoppel.Learned	  counsel  for	the  appellant	has  contested	 thecorrectness  of	 the  opinion of the  Union  Public  ServiceCommission  and	 has  suggested	 that  the  Commission	 hadindulged  in an officious opinion, because under  the  UnionPublic Service Commission (Consultation) Regulations, it wasnot necessary to consult the Commission.  Our attention	 hasbeen drawn to Regulation 3, which reads as follows so far asit is relevant for our purpose-"3. It shall not be necessary to consult the Commission	 inregard to the selection for appointment-(a)  to	 a Central Service, Class 1, of any Officer  in	 theArmed Forces of the Union or any officer who is already amember	of an All India Service, Central Service,Class 1,  aRailway Service, Class 1.(b)  to a Central Service, Class 11, of any officerfrom  another  Central Service, Class I or  from  a  CentralService,  Class 11 or of any officer in the Armed Forces  ofthe Union or of a Railway Service, Class II; .............Note  :-  In this regulation, the term I officer'  does	 notinclude a person in' temporary employment'.The correspondence with the Union Public Service  Commissionhas  now been placed before us.	 That  correspondence  showsthat the Union Public Service 'Commission took the view thatRegulation  3  did  not	 apply to  an  officer	who  was  in'temporary   employment	 '  in	the  sense  in	which	thatexpression was used1323when  the  Regulations	were  made,  and  "  quasi-permanentservant	 "  as defined in the Temporary Service	 Rules	alsomeant temporary service, but subject to certain benefits  inthe  matter  of leave etc., and certain	 safeguards  in	 thematter of termination of service.  Whether the Union  PublicService	 Commission is right in this view or not we are	 notcalled	upon to decide, particularly when the  Union  PublicService Commission is not before us.  It is enough for us tohold  that the post of Assistant Station Director is  not  apost in the same grade or cadre as that of the Public  Rela-tions-Officer.	 That being the position, the appellant	 hadno  qutsi-permanent status in the post of Assistant  StationDirector  and his service was liable to be  terminated	whenthere  was  a  reduction in the number of  posts  of  PublicRelations  Officers within the meaning of cl. (ii); nor	 washe entitled to the benefit of the proviso to el. (ii) so faras the post of Assistant Station Director was concerned.For the reasons given above, we hold that there has been  noviolation of the constitutional guarantee under Art. 311 (2)in  the case of the appellant.	The appeal must,  therefore,be dismissed.As to the petition tinder Art. 32 of the Constitution, we donot  think  that  there has  been  any	such  discriminationagainst the appellant as is contemplated by Arts. 14 and  16of  the	 Constitution.	It is true that others who  did	 nothold a qasi-permanent status were subsequently appointed  asAssistant  Station Director through selection by  the  UnionPublic	Service	 Commission.   We can only say	that  it  isunfortunate  that  the appellant was not so selected  ;	 butthat does not involve the breach of any fundamental right.In   conclusion	 we  wish  to  say  that  a  art  from	 anyconsideration of mere legal right, this is a hard case.	 Theappellant  was in service for about nine years	without	 anyblemish	 and his service was terminated on the reduction  ofcertain	 posts; he was told--wrongly it now appears-that  hehad  a	quasi-permanent	 status in  the	 post  of  AssistantStation Director.  The 1681324appellant  states that the Union Public	 Service  Commissiondid  not consider his suitability for the post of  AssistantStation	 Director, because he claimed quasipermanent  statusin  that  post.	 The correspondence with  the  Union  PublicService	 Commission shows that the appellant's case was	 notconsidered from the promotion quota of 20 % because he	helda  post	 which	was  not  (to  use  an	expression  of	 theCommission) 'in the field for promotion'.  If the  appellantis  right  in his statement that he was not  considered	 fordirect	 recruitment  because  he  claimed   quasi-permanentstatus,	 then obviously there is an apparent injustice;	 theappellant  is  then deprived of consideration of  his  claimboth  from the promotion and direct quotas.  We	 invite	 theattention of the authorities concerned to this aspect of thecase  and hope that they will consider the appollant's	casesympathetically and give him, proper relief.With  these  observations,  we dismiss the  appeal  and	 thepetition,  but in the circumstances there will be  no  orderfor costs.BOSE J.-With great respect I disagree.The  appellant's services as Public Relations  Officer,	 AllIndia  Radio,  were terminated because of the  reduction  inthat post.  There was no other post of equal status in	thatgrade  or  cadre,  so I agree that he bad no  right  to	 anycontinuance of employment.But  he	 was  appointed to officiate  as  Assistant  StationDirector  in  a purely temporary capacity  "  until  furtherorders ", on September 13, 1952. (Order No. 1 (101)51/52).Later,	on December 14, 1953, further orders were passed  bythe  same authority (Order No. (113)-51/52).   These  ordersconfirmed  the	order  appointing  the	appellant  AssistantStation Director and concluded-"Under	the  provision	contained in the  Ministry  of	Homeaffairs Office Memorandum No. 54 /136/51NGS, dated the	24thApril, 1952, Shri Srinivasan will carry with him the  quasi-permanent  status  of his former post  of  Public  RelationsOfficer	  while	 holding  the  post  of	 Assistant   StationDirector.			    1325This  order  is a "further order " and, in my  judgment,  itclearly	 and unequivocally makes him " quasipermanent  "  inthe new post.It  is	true that this was done under a	 mistake  which	 wasdiscovered  at	a  later date but the  mistake	is  that  ofGovernment  and others cannot be made to suffer	 because  ofthe  unilateral	 mistake of Government.	 I had	occasion  toobserver  while delivering the judgment of the Court in	 TheCommissioner  of Police, Bombay v., Gordhandas Bhan  i	(1),that-"Public	 orders, publicly made, in exercise of	a  statutoryauthority  cannot be construed in the light of	explanationssubsequently  given by the officer making the order of	whathe meant, or of what was in his mind, or what he intended todo  "  (and  I	add in this case,  "  what  he	subsequentlydiscovered  ").	 " Public orders made by public	 authoritiesare  meant to have public effect and are intended to  affectthe actings and conduct of those to whom they are  addressedand  must  be construed objectively with  reference  to	 thelanguage used in the order itself."The  principle	underlying those observations  applies	withequal force here. Here  is a man who was in no way at fault.  He	 had  servedfaithfully  in	various capacities from May  1,	 1946.	 Hisservices  were terminated on September 3, 1952, with  effectfrom October 6, 1952.  That was not his fault nor was it thefault of Government.  It was just the fortunes of war.	 Thepost was " reduced " and there was no more room for him.  Noone can quarrel with that.But  before the termination took effect he was continued  inservice	 in another post on September 13, 1952, in a  purelytemporary  capacity  "	until further orders  ".  There	 wasconsequently  no  break	 and  he was  still  in	 service  onDecember  14,  1953, when he was, told that  he	 was  quasi-permanent in the post of Assistant Station Director.He accepted this position and acted on it and continued	 to.serve in it for nearly two years.  That,(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 135, 140.1326naturally enough, has lessened his chances of seeking  otheremployment  because  after a man reaches a  certain  age  itbecomes increasingly difficult to find new employment.	I donot  say  this	was Government's fault, for no	one  can  beblamed for not knowing where they are in this wilderness  ofrules  and  regulations and coined words  and  phrases	withhighly	technical  and	artificial  meanings;  and  I  thinkGovernment did all they could to assuage the hardships of anunfortunate   situation.   But	equally,  it  was  not	 theappellant's  fault and in a case like this, a  broad  equityrequires  that the one least at fault should not be made  tosuffer.The old technically rigid conceptions Of Contract and equityhave given place in modern times to a juster appreciation ofjustice,   and	the  fusion  of	 law  and  equity   in	 onejurisdiction  has resulted in the emergence of a new  equityin  England more suited to modern ideas of human  needs	 andhuman  values.	 Lord  Denning	has  cited  instance   afterinstance in his book "The Changing Law" to show how this hascome about and how it is still in the process of  formation,flexible and fluid with the drive behind to do real  justicebetween	 man and man, and man and the State, rather than  tocontinue to apply a set of ancient hide-bound technicalitiesforged	and  fashioned in a wholly different  world  with  adifferent conscience and very different evaluations of humandignity	 and  human rights.  At pp. 54 and 55  Lord  Denningsums up this new orientation in legal thinking thus:" In coming to those decisions, the Courts expressly applieda  doctrine of equity whith says a court of equity will	 notallow  a person to enforce his strict legal rights  when  itwould be inequitable to allow him to do so.This doctrine warrants the proposition that the courts	willnot  allow  a  person  to go back on  a	 promise  which	 wasintended to be binding, intended to be acted on, and has  infact been acted on."I am not advocating sudden and wild departure from doctrinesand precedents that have been finally1327settled	 but I do contend that we, the highest Court in	 theland  giving  final  form  and shape to	 the  laws  of	thiscountry,  should  administer them with the same	 breadth  ofvision and understanding of the needs of the times as do theCourts	in  England.  The underlying principles	 of  justicehave  not  changed but the complex pattern of life  that  isnever  static  requires a fresher outlook and a	 timely	 andvigorous  moulding of old principles to suit new  conditionsand  ideas  and ideals.	 It is true that the Courts  do	 notlegislate but it is not true that they do not mould and makethe law in their processes of interpretation.Now,  what was the position here when looked at broadly	 andfairly	as an upright and just juryman of plain	 commonsenseand  understanding would do ?  Here was a man  with  severalyears  of  service and with no blemish on  his	conduct	 andreputation.  He was about to lose his job.  Government	feltthat  that  was bard and sought ways and means	to  right  awrong-not wrong in the legal sense, for no one was at fault,but  wrong in the deeper understanding of men who look	withsympathy at the lot of those who have to suffer for no faultof  theirs.  Government found, or thought they	found,	thatthey could put him in another post and they actually did so.They  found that in his old post he had certain	 protectionsand they wanted and intended that he should continue to havethem.  Under r. 3 of the Temporary Service Rules they  foundthat they could give him those protections in a very  simpleway,  namely,  by issuing a declaration that he	 was  quasi-permanent  in his new post.  He was fully eligible  for	 it.He  had been in continuous Government service for more	thanthree years.  The appointing authority was satisfied of	 hisqualifications,	 work  and  character for  employment  in  aquasi-permanent capacity.  The letters of Government to	 theUnion  Public Service Commission bear that out, quite  apartfrom the orders of September 13, 1952, and December 14,1953,which  would  not  have	 been made  if	Government  had	 notconsidered  him	 a  fit and proper person.  How	 can  it  becontended that1328Government  did.  not intend him to  have  a  quasipermanentposition in his new post simply because they said that	theywanted him to have the same protections as he had before 'I,It  is not the mere form of the words that matters  but	 themeaning that they were intended to convey and do convey.I am not concerned at this stage with whether Government wasmistaken in thinking that it could confer this status on himbut  with what they intended to do as a fact and  what	theyactually did do.They said that, he "will. carry with him the  quasipermanentstatus of his former post of Public Relations Officer  whileholding	 the post of Assistant Station Director." What	elsecan  this mean especially when coupled with  their  previousconduct	 showing,  their anxiety to do the  just  and  rightthing  by this unfortunate man, except that because  he	 wasprotected  before  he will continue to be protected  in	 thesame  way.   With the deepest respect I	 consider  it  ultratechnical  and	wrong  to construe this	 as  conditional  onGovernment having the power.  The point at this stage is notwhether Government had the right and the power but what theyintended;  and	about that I have no doubt  whatever.	Theywanted, and intended, and were straining every nerve, to  dothe  right  and just thing by him and to give him  the	samestatus as he had before, in the matter of pay, in the matterof  service and in the protections that he had in his  otherpost.The interpretations that Government put upon their order  ata  later  date are not relevant to construe it but it  is  tmatter	of  satisfaction that Government  themselves  viewedtheir action in the same light as I am doing now.  In  theirreply to the Public Service Commission dated June 22,  1954,Government  saidThe Commission were not consulted at the time of shifting ofquasi-permanent status of Shri Srinivasan from the, grade ofPublic	Relations  Officer  to	that  of  Assistant  StationDirector........It is clear to-- me that Government intended, not merely  tomove him from one post to the other, but1329also to shift the status and that can mean nothing less thanthat they intended him to have this status in the new post.I  turn next to the powers of Government.  I agree  that  ifthey had no power their action would be of no avail  howeverwell they may have meant.  But r. 4(a) of the Central  CivilServices  (Temporary Service) Rules, 1949, gives  them	thatpower.	It says that:A  declaration	issued	under  rule  3	shall  specify	 theparticular post...... in respect of which it is issued."  Itdoes  not  require  the declaration to	be  couched  in	 anyparticular  form  of  words  or in  the	 shape	of  a  magicincantation.   All that it requires is a simple	 declarationand that declaration is to be found in the order of December14, 1953.The  only  question  then is whether  r.  4(b)	renders	 thedeclaration  null  and	void  because  the  Public   ServiceCommission was not consulted.  The rule runs-"  Where recruitment to a specified post is required  to  bemade  in  consultation	with  the  Federal  Public   ServiceCommission, no such declaration shall be issued except afterconsultation  with  the	 Commission."  The  essence  of	 theprohibition lies in the words underlined:" Is required to bemade." Just what do these words mean ?Now  I	have no doubt that in the ordinary way	these  wordsshould	be construed to mean what they say, But so, I  wouldhave thought at first blush, do the words in Art. 320(3)  ofthe  Constitution.   They are equally  emphatic.   They	 areequally imperative.  But this Court held in the State of  U.P.  v.	Manbodhan  Lal	Srivastava  (1),  after	 a   carefulexamination  of	 the whole position, that they do  not	meanwhat  they seem to say and that they are directive only	 andnot mandatory.Nor  is this Court alone in so thinking.  The Federal  Courtconstrued a similar provision.in s. 256 of the Government ofIndia  Act, 1935, in the same way: (Biswanath Khemka v.	 TheKing  Emperor)	(2);  and  so did the  Privy  Council  in  aCanadian case in Montreal(i) [1958] S.C.R. 533.(2) [1945] F.C.R. 99.1330Street	Railway Company v. Normandin (1).   Their  Lordshipssaid at page, 175 that when a statute prescribes a formalityfor the performance of a public duty, the formality is to beregarded as directory only if to hold it as mandatory  wouldcause  serious general inconvenience or injustice.  Will  itnot  cause  injustice here?  Why should we take	 a  narrowerview of a mere set of rules than this Court and the  FederalCourt  and the Privy Council have taken of the	Constitutionand  the  Act  of  a  Legislature  and	even  of  a  supremeParliament?   Why should we give greater sanctity  and	morebinding	 force	to  rules and regulations than	to  our	 ownConstitution ? Why should we hesitate to do justicewith firmness and vigour?If  we	apply  the  same principles  here,  then  the  wordsrequired  to be made " in r. 4(b) lose their sting  and	 theway is free and open for us to do that justice forwhich the Courts exist.Here  is Government straining to temper justice	 with  mercyand we, the Courts, are out Shylocking Shylock in  demandinga pound of flesh, and why? because this writ in the bond." Iwill  have none of it.	All I can see is a man who has	beenwronged and I can see a plain way out.	I would take it.I  am  not  quarrelling with the  interpretation  which	 thePublic	Service Commission has placed upon these  rules.   Ihave no doubt that they should be observed, and are meant tobe  observed;  and I have equally no doubt  that  there	 areconstitutional	sanctions which can be applied if  they	 areflouted.  But the sanction is political and not judicial andan act done in contravention of them cannot be challenged ina  Court of Law.  It is legally valid.	Also, the fact	thatGovernment  would  not have acted in this way  if  they	 hadrealised  that	they  were under a  directive  duty  of	 theConstitution to consult the Union Public Service  Commissionfirst cannot alter the character of their act or affect	 itslegal  consequences.  They had the power and they  exercisedit,  consequently,  their act became binding  despite  theirmistake.   That	 is  how  I  would  interpret  the  law	 andadminister justice.(1)  [1917] A.C. 170.13311 would allow the appeal and the petition with costs.BY COURT : The appeal and the petition are dismissed.  Therewill be no order as to costs.Appeal and Petition dismissed.