PETITIONER:JAGANNATH BEHERA AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAJA HARIHAR SINGHMARDARAJ BHRAMARBARA ROYDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/12/1957BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  239		  1958 SCR 1067ACT:  Merger Agreement-Private Property  of	 Ruler-Legislationrestricting  ejectment of tenants-If violates  guarantee  offull ownership, use and enjoyment-jurisdiction of Courts  indispute	 between Ruler and tenants-Ruler whether a landlord-Orissa	Tenants Protection Act, 1948 (Orissa III  of  1948),SS.  2(a)  and	(g)-Orissa Merged States  (Laws)  Act,	1950(Orissa	 IV  of	 1950), SS. 7(a) and  (h)  -Constitution  ofIndia, Arts. 19(1)(f), 363.HEADNOTE:   The	 respondent was the Ruler of the erstwhile State  ofKhandapara which merged in the State of Orissa on August  1,1949.  Article 3 of the Agreement of Merger guaranteed	that"the  Raja  shall  be entitled to full	ownership,  use	 andenjoyment of all his private properties".  The Orissa MergedStates'	 (Laws)	 Act,  1950  extended  the  Orissa  Tenant'sProtection  Act,  1948	to the merged areas.   In  1951	 therespondents evicted certain tenants.  The tenants applied tothe Revenue Officer under the 1948 Act for being restored topossession on the allegations that the respondent was  theirlandlord  and  that  he had unlawfully	evicted	 them.	 TheRevenue	 Officer  allowed  the	applications  and   directedrestoration of possession.  The respondent filed a  petitionunder  Art.  226 of the Constitution in the High  Court	 forquashing  the orders of the Revenue Officer contending,	 (1)that  the application of the provisions of the 1948  Act  tohis  private properties violated the guarantee	given  underthe Agreement, (2) that Art. 363 Of the Constitution  barredthe  Court from dealing with any dispute arising out of	 theAgreement, and (3) that the 1948 Act did not apply to him ashe  was	 not  a landlord.  The	High  Court  accepted  thesecontentions and quashed the proceedings taken under the 1948Act:   Held,  that the extension of the 1948 Act did not  affectthe  full  ownership, use and enjoyment	 of  his  propertiesguaranteed  to	the  respondent under  the  Agreement.	 Theprovisions of the Agreement only protected his rights to theproperties  declared  to be his private properties  so	thatthey  could  not be claimed at anytime thereafter  as  Stateproperties.   The guarantee given under the Agreement  couldnot  be	 absolute but could only be  co-extensive  with	 theright  to  acquire, hold and dispose of	 property  which  isguaranteed  to	all  citizens under  Art.  19(1)(f)  of	 theConstitution.   State of Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh of1361068Darbhanga, [1952] S.C.R. 889 and Visheshwar Rao v. The Stateof Madhya Pradesh, [1952] S.C.R. 1020, followed.   Held,  that the jurisdiction of the Courts  to  entertainthe applications under the 1948 Act, was not barred by	Art.363 Of the Constitution.  The dispute between the appellantsand  respondent	 was not a dispute which arose	out  of	 theAgreement of Merger, and so was not covered by Art. 363.   Held further, that the respondent was a landlord to	whomthe  provisions of the 1948 Act applied.  Whatever may	havebeen the definition of the terms landlord and tenant in	 SS.2(C) and (g) of the 1948 Act the definitions contained in s.7(a) of the 1950 Act, made the appellants 'the tenants'	 andthe  respondent	 'the landlord' in regard to  the  lands  inquestion.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPFLLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil  Appeal  No.309  of1955.   Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 7, 1953,of  the	 Orissa	 High  Court  in  O.J.C.  No.  37  of  1952.   C.K.Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of India and  B.Sen	 (B.M.   Patnik,  Advocate,	 Orissa	 High  Court  with   SpecialPermission  of	the  Court  and	 R.  H.	 Dhebar),  for	 theappellants, Nos. 1, 3 to 9 and 11 to 16 and the intervener.H.   Mahapatra and Gyan Chand Mathur, for the respondent.   1957.   December 6. The following Judgment of  the  Courtwas delivered by   BHAGWATI  J.-This appeal with a certificate	under  Arts.132  and 133(1)(c) of the Constitution arises out of a	writpetition filed by the respondent in the High Court of Orissaunder  Art.  226 seeking to quash the proceedings  taken  bycertain tenants of his private lands under the provisions ofthe  Orissa  Tenants' Protection Act, 1948  (Orissa  III  of1948), hereinafter referred to as the 1948 Act.   The respondent was the ruler of the erstwhile  KhandaparaState  which  merged with the Province of Orissa  under	 theStates'	 Merger	 (Governor's  Provinces)  Order,  1949	witheffect from August 1, 1949.  The respondent had on  December14, 1947 entered into an agreement with the Governor-Generalof India art, 3 Whereof provided that:			    1069   " The Raja shall be entitled to full ownership, use,	 andenjoyment of all private properties (as distinct from  StateProperties) belonging to him on the date of the agreement."   That	 article further provided that if any dispute  aroseas to whether any item of property was the private  propertyof the Raja or State property, it shall be referred to	suchofficer with judicial experience as the Dominion  Governmentmight  nominate	 and the decision of that officer  shall  befinal and binding on both parties.  The respondent claimed anumber	of  properties and the matter was  referred  to	 theAdviser	 for Orissa States for determining whether  all	 theitems  claimed by him could be regarded as his private	pro-perties.   On  June 10, 1949, the Adviser  communicated	 hisdecision that the respondent was entitled to 1,643 acres  ashis Khamar lands and 29 and odd acres as lands settled	withhis tenants.  The lands comprised in the present proceedingstaken  under the 1948 Act as aforesaid were declared  to  bethe private properties of the respondent.   On  March  3,  1950, the Orissa  Legislature	 passed	 theOrissa	Merged States' (Laws) Act, 1950 (Orissa IV of  1950)hereinafter  referred to as " the 1950 Act ". Section  4  ofthat  Act  extended  inter alia the 1948 Act  to  the  areasmerged	in  the	 absorbing Province of	Orissa.	  Section  7provided  for the modification of tenancy laws in  force  inthe merged States.  The relevant provisions of that  sectionso far as they are material for the purposes of this  appealmay be set out herein:   " Notwithstanding anything contained in the tenancy	lawsof  the	 merged States as continued in force  by  virtue  ofarticle 4 of the States Merger (Governor's Provinces) Order,1949:  (a)all suits and. proceedings between landlord and  tenantas such shall be instituted and tried in revenue courts.  Explanation:In  this	clause the  expression	"  landlord"shall  mean a person immediately under whom a  tenant  holdsland, and the expression " tenant " shall mean a person	 whoholds land under another1070person	and  is	 or, but for a special	contract,  would  beliable to pay rent for that land to that person:   (h)	  when a person holds Khamar, nij-jote or any  otherprivate lands of a Ruler, which has been recognised as	suchby  the	 Provincial Government, he shall not  be  liable  toejectment but shall be liable to pay such fair and equitablerent as may be fixed by any competent authority appointed inthis behalf by the Revenue Commissioner or the Commissioner,Northern Division, as the case may be and thereupon he shallacquire right of occupancy in respect of such lands: "   On  April  14,  1951, the State  Legislature	 passed	 theOrissa Tenants Protection (Amendment) Act, 1951 (Orissa XVIIof 1951) whereby the date the " 1st day of September, 1947 "wherever it was used in the 1950 Act, was substituted by the"I  st day of August, 1949" for the purposes of	 the  mergedStates areas and it was further provided that in such  areaswhere  neither	the Madras Estates Land Act, 1908,  nor	 theOrissa	Tenancy Act, 1913 was in force the special  laws  orcustoms prevailing therein shall be taken into considerationfor the application of that Act.   It appears that certain tenants who were in occupation ofthe  private  lands of the respondent were  evicted  by	 himduring the year 1951 and other tenants were inducted by	 himand  put in possession of the lands.  The tenants  who	werethus  evicted  applied to the Revenue Officer some  time  in1952 for being restored to possession of their tenancy landsunder  the  provisions of the 1948 Act,	 alleging  that	 therespondent  was	 their landlord and that he  had  unlawfullyevicted	 them  from  their lands.  These  were	numbered  asO.T.P. Act Cases Nos. 21 to 25 of 1952, 26 to 28 of 1952, 29to  32 of 1952 and 33 to 41 of 1952.  Notice was  issued  tothe respondent but it appears that be did not care to  enterappearance  before  the Revenue Officer or  to	contest	 theapplications.	On the ex parte evidence of  the  Applicantsthe  Revenue Officer directed restoration of  possession  tothem holding that they			    1071were in possession of the lands as tenants on the 1st day ofAugust,	 1949,	and as such were entitled  to  the  benefitsconferred by the 1948 Act, as amended in its application  tothe merged States.   The respondent thereupon filed a writ petition under Art.226  of the Constitution in the High Court seeking to  quashthe entire proceedings on the ground that in respect of	 thedisputed lands he was not a " landlord " within the  meaningof  the	 1948 Act.  The petition as filed averred  that	 thefundamental  right conferred upon the respondent by Art.  19of  the Constitution was infringed, that the  provisions  ofthe 1948 Act which were inconsistent with that article	werevoid  as being ultra vires the Constitution and	 the  orderspassed	thereunder by the Revenue Officer were	illegal	 andliable to be set aside.   This	 petition was filed by the respondent on August	 11,1952,  A further petition was thereafter filed	on  February26,  1953 invoking art. 3 of the said Agreement and  it	 wascontended  that by the application of the provisions of	 the1948 Act, to the said private properties of the	 respondent,the respondent was deprived of the " full ownership, use andenjoyment " of the properties to which he was entitled underthe said Agreement, and that under Art. 363 of the Constitu-tion,  no  Court had jurisdiction to deal with	any  disputearising	 out of any provisions of the said  Agreement.	 Thedecision of the Revenue Officer was thus called in  questionand  it was contended that he had no jurisdiction to  decidethe  dispute as to whether the tenants had any right to	 thepersonal  properties  of  the respondent  and  as  such	 theproceedings  were  liable  to be quashed  as  being  withoutjurisdiction.   The	 High  Court  accepted	these  contentions  of	 therespondent  and allowed the writ petition.   It	 accordinglydirected the issue of a writ declaring that the	 proceedingsunder the 1948 Act taken by the Revenue Officer were void asbeing without jurisdiction and that they should be quashed.   The	tenants	 then filed an application before  the	HighCourt asking for a certificate under Arts. 132 and1072133(1)(c) of the Constitution which was granted by the	HighCourt.	The State of Orissa asked for leave to intervene  inthe  appeal  which leave was granted by this Court  and	 thelearned Solicitor-General has appeared before us in  supportof  the	 appeal, both on behalf of the tenants who  are	 theappellants herein, and the State of Orissa, the Intervener.   It  may be noted at the outset that no question has	beenraised	in  regard  to	the vires of  the  1950	 Act,  whichextended inter alia the 1948 Act to the areas merged in	 theabsorbing Province of orissa.  That being so, s. 7(h) of the1950  Act in terms would apply to the appellants  before  usand they would not be liable to ejectment.   The	answer of the respondent, however, is that  (1)	 theRevenue Court had by virtue of Art. 363 of the	Constitutionno  jurisdiction in the disputes between the appellants	 andhim  arising  out of the provisions of	the  said  Agreementdated  December 14, 1947, (2) that the full  ownership,	 useand enjoyment of the properties which was guaranteed to	 himunder  art.  3	of the said Agreement was  affected  by	 theapplication  of the provisions of the 1948 Act, to the	saidlands  and  (3)	 that, he was not a "  landlord	 "  and	 theappellants  were not the " tenants " within the	 meaning  ofthe  terms  as	defined in the 1948 Act, and,  that  in	 anyevent,	these  lands  were not recognised  as  such  by	 theProvincial  Government	which recognition  was	a  conditionprecedent  to the application of s. 7(h) of the 1950 Act  tothese  lands  and  that therefore the  appellants  were	 notentitled to the protection thereof.   The	first two contentions are inter-related and  can  bedisposed  of together.	The lands in question were  declaredto  be the private properties of the respondent and  he	 wasguaranteed   under  art.  3  of	 the  said  Agreement	fullownership,  use	 and enjoyment thereof.	  Article  363	onlyousted	the  jurisdiction  of the courts in  regard  to	 thedisputes  arising  out of any provisions  of  the  Agreemententered	 into  by  the	Rulers of  Indian  States  with	 theGovernment  of India.  The dispute which had arisen  betweenthe appellants and the respondent in the present case  couldhardly be said to			    1073be  a  dispute	arising out of any provisions  of  the	saidAgreement.   The  full Ownership, use and enjoyment  of	 theproperties which were declared to be the private  propertiesof the respondent was not sought to be affected by extendingthe  1948  Act,	 to the merged	State  of  Khandapara.	 Theproperties  which  had	been  declared	to  be	the  privateproperties  of	the  respondent were not  claimed  as  Stateproperties but the whole legislation proceeded on the  basisthat  the  respondent  was the	owner  of  these  propertieswherein	 he had inducted tenants and what was sought  to  bedone  was  to enact a measure for the  protection  of  thosetenants.   A  measure  for the	protection  of	the  tenantsinducted  by the respondent could hardly be said  to  affectthe full ownership, use and enjoyment of these properties bythe respondent.	 It no doubt imposed certain restrictions onthe  absolute rights which the respondent claimed in  regardto the user and enjoyment of the said properties; but  thesemeasures  were	imposed	 upon him in  common  with  all	 thecitizens  of  the Union and the justification for  the	samecould be sought under cl. 5 of Art. 19 of the Constitution.   Similar  contentions which had been raised on  behalf  ofthe  erstwhile	Rulers,	 whose States had  merged  with	 theProvinces, were answered by this Court in The State of Biharv. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga (1)	 andin Visweshwar Rao v. The State	 of  Madhya   Pradesh	(2).PatanjaliSastri	 C.  J.observed in the former case  at	page915:    "But  a  short and obvious answer is that there  was  nocontravention  of  any guarantee or assurance given  by	 theGovernment  under the covenant of merger, as the estates  inquestion  are  sought to be acquired only as the  "  privateproperty   "   of  the	Rulers	and  not   otherwise.	 Thecompensation provided for, such as it is, is in	 recognitionof their private proprietorship, as in the case of any otherowner."    Mahajan J. (as he then was) observed in the latter	caseat page 1041 :    " It is true that by the covenant of merger the[1952] S.C.R. 889, 915.(2)   [1952] S.C.R, 1020, 1041, I054.1074properties  of the petitioner became his private  propertiesas distinguished from properties of the State but in respectof  them  he is in no better position than any	other  ownerpossessing private property.  Article 362 does not  prohibitthe acquisition of properties declared as private propertiesby  the	 covenant  of merger and does  not  guarantee  theirperpetual existence.  The guarantee contained in the articleis  of a limited extent only.  It assures that	the  Rulers'properties declared as their private properties will not  beclaimed as State properties.  The guarantee has -no  greaterscope than this.  That guarantee has been fully respected bythe impugned statute, as it treats those properties as theirprivate	 properties  and  seeks	 to  acquire  them  on	thatassumption.   Moreover, it seems to me that in view  of	 thecomprehensive  language	 of article 363 this  issue  is	 notjusticiable."Das  J. (as he then was) also observed in that case at	page1054:   " The guarantee or assurance to which due regard is to behad is limited to personal rights, privileges and  dignitiesof  the Ruler qua a Ruler.  It does not extend	to  personalproperty which is different from personal rights.   Further,this article does not import any legal obligation but is  anassurance only.	 All that the covenant does is to  recognisethe  title of the Ruler as owner of certain properties.	  Tosay that the Ruler is the owner of certain properties is notto  say that those properties shall in no  circumstances  beacquired by the State.	 The   fact   that   his    personalproperties are sought	 to   be  acquired  on	payment	  ofcompensation clearly	 recognises  his title just  as	 thetitles of other proprietors are recognised."   It is clear therefore that neither Art. 363 nor Art.	 362of  the	 Constitution  would avail the	respondent  and	 thecourts	would  have jurisdiction to  entertain	the  disputebetween the appellants and him which arose out of his actionin ejecting them from his private lands.  The provisions  ofthe  said  Agreement  only  protected  his  rights  in	 theproperties  declared  to be his private properties  so	thatthey  could not be claimed at any time thereafter  as  Stateproperties.  The 1948 Act			    1075did not dispute his ownership over the same but proceeded onthe  basis that they were his private properties and  soughtto  impose upon him certain obligations in order to  protectthe  rights of the tenants whom he had inducted therein	 andthere  was  no infringement of the guarantee  or  assuranceswhich  had  been  given	 to him under art.  3  of  the	saidAgreement.   It	 could not also be urged  that	by  imposingreasonable  restrictions in the interests of the tenants  onhis  right to acquire, hold and dispose of properties  undercl. 5 of Art. 19 of the Constitution, the 1948 Act  affectedhis  rights  of full ownership, use and enjoyment  of  thoseproperties.  If anything was done by extending the 1948	 Actto  the	 merged	 State of Khandapara, it  was  done  in	 theinterests of the tenants and it was done for the  protectionof   the  tenants  who	were  inducted	by  him	  and	suchrestrictions  did  not affect the full	ownership,  use	 andenjoyment of his private properties, any more than they	 didin the case of other owners of lands.  As a matter of  fact,under the terms of the 1950 Act which extended the 1948	 Actto  the merged State of Khandapara, he was entitled  to	 thepayment	 by "he tenants of such fair and equitable  rent  asmay  be fixed by any competent authority appointed  in	thisbehalf	by the Revenue Commissioner or the  Commissioner  ofthe Northern Division as the case may be and so long as	 thetenants continued to pay such rent he was no worse off	thanwere other proprietors of lands.  The tenants would no doubtacquire rights of occupancy in respect of such lands but theacquisition of the occupancy rights by the tenants would notbe calculated to affect his right to full ownership, use andenjoyment  of  his lands, because he would  be	entitled  toeject  the  occupancy tenants also if the tenants  used	 thelands  comprised  in  their holdings  in  any  manner  whichrendered  them	unfit  for the purposes of  the	 tenancy  orcommitted  a  breach  of  conditions  consistent  with	 theprovisions of the tenancy laws in force in the merged  Stateconcerned on breach whereof they were under the terms of thecontract  between themselves and the landlord liable  to  beejected.  As already statedI371076these  restrictions were for the protection of	the  tenantswho  were  inducted  on the lands by  the  erstwhile  Rulersthemselves  and	 by  the extension of the 1948	Act  to	 themerged	State of Khandapara, the respondent was	 treated  inthe  same manner as any other citizen of the Union.   If  atall  there  was	 any  infringement of  his  rights  to	fullownership, use and enjoyment of his properties that was alsoin accordance with the provisions of the Constitution itselfand whatever may have been the guarantee or assurance  givento  him under the terms of the said Agreement, it could	 notbe absolute but would only be co-extensive with the right toacquire, hold and dispose of property which is guaranteed toall  the  citizens of the Union under Art. 19(1)(f)  of	 theConstitution.  These contentions of the respondent thereforeare of no avail.   If, then, the provisions of the 1950 Act could be validlyapplied to the merged State of Khandapara in spite of art. 3of  the said Agreement thus attracting the operation of	 the1948 Act to his private lands it remains to consider whetherthe  respondent was a landlord and the appellants  were	 histenants	 within the meaning of the terms as defined in	thatAct.   The contention of the respondent, in the first  instance,is  that under the terms of s. 2(ii) of the  Orissa  TenantsProtection (Amendment) Act, 1951 (Orissa XVII of 1951) whichadded sub-s. 5 to s. I of the 1948 Act, in such areas  whereneither	 the Madras Estates Lands Act, 1908, nor the  OrissaTenancy Act, 1913, was in force-and the State of  Khandaparawas  such  an area-the special laws  or	 customs  prevailingtherein	  shall	  be  taken  into  consideration   for	 theapplication of that Act.  It is urged that the	relationshipbetween the respondent and the tenants whom he had  inductedon  his private properties was governed by special laws	 andcustoms	 and that therefore the application of the  Act	 wasexcluded  .  It	 is, however, to be observed  that  no	suchcontention  was	 ever taken in the  proceedings	 before	 theRevenue	 Officer or before the High Court and it  was  urgedfor the first time in the course of the arguments before us.The question is one of fact,			    1077whether any such special laws or customs were prevailing  inthe  merged  State of Khandapara, and we  cannot  allow	 therespondent to urge this contention for the first time beforeus.  We shall, therefore, proceed on the basis that the 1948Act  was  quite	 properly extended to the  merged  State  ofKhandapara.   It is next contended that the definition of landlord	 andtenant	given  in s. 2(c) and (g) of the 1948  Act  did	 notapply	to  the	 relationship  between	the  parties.	 Thedefinitions of these terms are as under:  Section  2  (c).-"landlord"  means  a	 person,  whether  aproprietor,  sub-proprietor,  tenure-holder  or	 raiyat	  orunder-raiyat,  either  in  the raiyatwari  area	 or  in	 thezamindari  area	 or land-holder	 or  permanent	undertenure-holder,	 whose	land  a	 person,  whether  immediately,	  ormediately cultivates as a tenant;  Section  2  (g).-"tenant" means a person  who,  under	 thesystem generally known as Bhag, Sanja, Kata or such  similarexpression,  cultivates	 the  land  of	another	 person	  oncondition of delivering to that person-  (i)	  either a share of the produce of such land, or  (ii)	  the estimated value of a portion of the cropraisedon the land, or  (iii)	  a  fixed quantity of produce irrespective  of	 theyield from the land, or  (iv)	  produce  or its estimated value partly in any	 oneof the ways described above and partly in another; but shallnot include................... "  It  is  urged that the tenants who were  inducted  by	 therespondent  on these lands did not fulfil the terms of	thisdefinition  and	 they were therefore not tenants and,  as  alogical	 corollary  to that, the respondent could not  be  alandlord  qua them.  It is also contended that	even  thoughthese  lands were declared to be the private  properties  ofthe  Respondent	 under the decision of the Adviser  for	 theOrissa	States, that was a recognition of the lands as	suchby  the	 Dominion  Government  and  not	 by  the  ProvincialGovernment;  which recognition was a condition precedent  ofthe  application of s. 7(h) of the 1950 Act to these  lands.Here1078also, the respondent is confronted with this difficulty thatthese  questions were not mooted either before	the  RevenueOfficer	 or  the High Court in the manner in  which  it	 wassought to be done before us.  It was all along assumed	thatthe  appellants had been the tenants of the  respondent	 buthad  been ejected by him in the year 1951 and other  tenantswere  inducted in their place some time in 1952.  The  landsin question were also assumed to have been recognised as theprivate	 lands of the respondent by the	 Government  withoutmaking	any distinction between the Dominion Government	 andthe  Provincial Government as was sought to be	done  beforeus.   Reliance	was mainly placed by the respondent  in	 theHigh Court on his plea that the jurisdiction of the  RevenueOfficer was barred under Art. 363 of the Constitution and itwas  nowhere urged that the appellants were not the  tenantsand  be	 was  not  the landlord	 within	 the  terms  of	 thedefinitions contained in the 1948 Act or that in the absenceof recognition of these private lands of his as such by	 theProvincial  Government,	 the  condition	 precedent  to	 theapplication of s. 7(b) of the 1950 Act was not fulfilled andthat section has no application at all to these lands.	 Thedetermination  of these questions also requires evidence  inregard	to the same and it would not be legitimate to  allowthese  questions to be agitated for the first time  at	thislate stage.   The matter is, however, concluded by the provisions of s.7(a)  of  the  1950 Act.  That section	enacts	a  statutoryextension of the definition of the terms landlord and tenantand  provides  that the expression  'Jandlord'shall  mean  aperson	immediately under whom a tenant holds land, and	 theexpression 'tenant' shall mean a person who holds land underanother person and is or, but for a special contract,  wouldbe  liable  to	pay  rent for  that  land  to  that  person.Whatever may have been the definitions of the terms landlordand  tenant  in	 s.  2(c) and (g)  of  the  1948  Act,	thisdefinition  contained in the explanation to s. 7(a)  of	 the1950  Act  makes  the  appellants  'the	 tenants  'and	 therespondents  '	a  landlord  ' in regard  to  the  lands  inquestion.  This statutory extension of the definition of theterms			    1079'landlord'  and	 ' tenant' therefore is sufficient,  in	 ouropinion, to repel the last contention urged on behalf of therespondent before us.  The  respondent further contends that in spite of s. 7  ofthe  1950  Act,	 enacting that	all  suits  and	 proceedingsbetween landlord and tenant as such shall be instituted	 andtried  in revenue courts, the provisions of the 1948 Act  inregard to the hierarchy of revenue courts and the  procedureand the penalties provided therein are not attracted to	 themerged	State  of Khandapara.  The contention  is  that	 theprovisions contained in the 1950 Act are special  provisionswhich  eliminate  the operation of  the	 general  provisionscontained in the 1948 Act, and in so far as nothing more  isstated in regard to how the revenue courts are to act in thematter	of the institution and trial of all suits  and	pro-ceedings between landlord and tenant, there is a lacuna	 andthe  revenue  courts as envisaged by the 1948 Act,  have  nojurisdiction to entertain the proceedings in question.   The simple answer to this contention of the respondent isthat both these Acts have to be read together.	The 1950 Actis an Act to extend certain Acts and regulations to  certainareas  administered as part of the Province of Orissa.	 Themerged State of Khandapara is one of such areas.  By  virtueof  s. 4 of this Act the 1948 Act is inter alia extended  tothe  merged State of Khandapara and the	 provisions  thereofare  made  applicable in that area.  The other	sections  ofthis  Act enact further provisions which are  applicable  tothese merged States including the merged State of Khandaparaand  s.	 7, in particular, enacts the  modification  of	 thetenancy	 laws  in  force  in  those  merged  States.   Theseprovisions are therefore supplementary to those contained inthe 1948 Act, and it follows that not only the provisions ofthe  1948  Act but also the provisions of the 1950  Act	 areapplicable to the merged State of Khandapara.  If both theseActs are thus read together, as they should be, there is  noinconsistency between the provisions of these Acts and it isclear  that the provisions of sub-s. (a) and (h) of s. 7  ofthe 1950 Act1080which  applied	to  the	 dispute  which	 arose	between	 theappellants  and	 the  respondent  read	together  with	 therelevant  provisions in regard to the procedure,  penalties,etc., contained in the 1948 Act did give jurisdiction to theRevenue	 Officer  to  entertain	 the  dispute  between	 theparties.   This contention of the respondent also  thereforefails.   We  are  therefore, of opinion that the judgment  of	 theHigh Court was clearly wrong and is liable to be set aside.   We accordingly allow the appeal, set aside the order madeby  the	 High Court, and restore the orders  passed  by	 theRevenue	 Officer  in the O.T.P. Act Cases Nos. 21 to  25  of1952,  26  to 28 of 1952, 29 to 32 of 1952 and 33 to  41  of1952.  The respondent will pay the appellants' costs of thisappeal as also of the writ petition in the High Court.	 TheState of Orissa will, of course, bear and pay its own costs.		      Appeal allowed.