PETITIONER:M/S.  HAJI AZIZ AND ABDUL SHAKOOR BROS.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAY CITY IIDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/11/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  663		  1961 SCR  (2) 651 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC 668	 (8) R	    1964 SC1722	 (9) D	    1969 SC 288	 (12) RF	    1972 SC 391	 (6) RF	    1980 SC1271	 (7)ACT:Income-tax--Business	deduction--Import   of	 goods	  bysteamer--Government   notification  prohibiting	 import	  bysteamer--Payment      of     penalty	 in	lieu	  ofconfiscation--Allowable expenditure--Commercial expense--SeaCustoms Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), s. 167(8)--Indian  Income-taxAct, 1922 (11 of 1922), S. 10(2)(XV).HEADNOTE:The  appellant	firm imported dates from  abroad  partly  bysteamer	 and partly by country craft.  At the relevant	timeimport	 of  dates  by	steamers  had  been  prohibited	  byGovernment(1) [1945] 1 3 I.T.R. Supp. 1.(2) [1956] S.C.R. 551.652notification,  and the consignments which were	imported  bysteamer	  were,	 therefore,  confiscated  by   the   customsauthorities  under s. 167, item 8, of the Sea  Customs	Act,i878, but under s. 183 of the Act the appellant was given anoption to pay Rs. 82,250 as penalty in lieu of confiscation.The  appellant paid the amount and got the  dates  released.Before	the Income-tax authorities it claimed to deduct	 theamount paid as penalty as an allowable expenditure under  S.1O(2)(XV) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, but the  claimwas   rejected.	  It  was  contended  that  the	  order	  ofconfiscation was against the stock-in-trade and not  againstthe person of the appellant firm and as the amount paid	 wasexpended  for the release of the stock-in-trade, it  was  anallowable expenditure.Held,  that  the  amount paid by the  appellant	 by  way  ofpenalty	 for a breach of the law could not be considered  tobe  an expenditure laid out wholly and exclusively  for	 thepurpose	 of the business and was not an allowable  deductionunder S. 1O(2) (xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.Expenses which are permitted as deductions are such as aremade in order to enable a person to carry on and earn profitin  the business.  It is not enough that  the  disbursementsare  made in the course of or arise out of or are  concernedwith  or  made out of the profits of the business  but	theymust  also be for the purpose of earning the profits of	 thebusiness.   An expenditure is not deductible unless it is  acommercial loss in trade and a penalty imposed for breach ofthe  law  during the course of trade cannot  on	 grounds  ofpublic	policy	be said to be a commercial expense  for	 thepurpose	 of a business or disbursement made for the  purposeof earning the profits -of such business.Case law reviewed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.110 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary 25, 1955, of the former Bombay High Court in I.T.R.No. 57/X of 1954.N. A. Palkhivala and I. N. Shroff, for the Appellant.A. N. Kripal and D. Gupta, for the Respondent.1960.  November 24.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyKAPUR,	J.-This	 is an appeal by special leave	against	 thejudgment and order of the High Court of Bombay answering thequestion  submitted to it. against the assessee firm who  isthe appellant before653us, the respondent being the Commissioner of Income-tax.The  appeal  relates  to the assessment	 year  1949-50,	 theaccounting year ended on July 25, 1948.	 The appellant is  afirm  doing the business of importing dates from abroad	 andselling	 them  in  India.  During the  accounting  year	 theappellant  imported dates from Iraq.  At the  relevant	timethe  import  of	 dates by steamers  was	 prohibited  by	 twonotifications dated December 12, 1946, and June 4, 1947, butthey  were permitted to be brought by country craft.   Goodswhich had been ordered by the appellant were received partlyby steamer and partly by country craft.	 Consignments, whichwere imported by steamer and were valued at Rs. 5 lacs	wereconfiscated by the Customs Authorities under s. 167, item  8of  the	 Sea Customs Act but under s. 183 of that  Act	the,appellant  was given an option to pay fines aggregating	 Rs.1,63,950  which	 sum on appeal was reduced  to	Rs.  82,250.This sum was paid and the dates were released.	On the	saleof the goods certain profits accrued out of which it  soughtto deduct Rs. 82,250 paid as penalty on ordinary  principlesof commercial accounting.  The Income-tax Officer disallowedthis  claim  which  was also  disallowed  by  the  AppellateAssistant   Commissioner.   On	appeal	to  the	  Income-taxAppellate  Tribunal this sum was held to be allowable  by  amajority  of two to one.  At the instance of the  respondentthe  Tribunal  referred the following question to  the	HighCourt for its opinion:-"Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the  case,the payment of Rs. 82,250 is an allowable expenditure  underSection 10(2) (xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act?"The  High  Court held that the above amount  of	 Rs.  82,250could not be said to have been paid for salvaging the  goodsbut  was  paid as a penalty incurred in	 consequence  of  anillegal, act on the part of the appellant and was  thereforenot  an allowable item under s. 10(2)(xv) of the  Income-taxAct.   Against this judgment the appellant firm has come  inappeal to this Court by special leave.83654any  contract of hire purchase was contemplated,  cannot  beapplied	 simpliciter, because such a contract has in it	 notonly  the element of bailment but also the element of  sale.At  common law the term	 'hire -purchase'  properly  appliesonly to contracts of hire conferring an option to  purchase,but  it	 is often used to describe contracts  which  are  inreality	 agreements  to purchase  chattels  by	instalments,subject	 to a condition that the property in them is not  topass until all instalments have been paid.  The	 distinctionbetween	 these	two  types of hire  purchase  contracts	 is,however, a most important one, because under the latter typeof  contract there is a binding obligation on the  hirer  tobuy  and  the  hirer can therefore pass a good	title  to  apurchaser  or  pledgee dealing with him in  good  faith	 andwithout	 notice of the rights of the true owner, whereas  inthe  case  of a contract which merely confers an  option  topurchase there is no binding obligation on the hirer to buy,and  a purchaser or pledgee can obtain no better title	thanthe hirer had, except in the case of a sale in market overt,the  contract  not  being an agreement	to  buy	 within	 theFactors Act, 1889, or the Sale of Goods Act, 1893."The  observations  quoted  above are  based  mostly  on	 twoleading	 cases which have come to be regarded as  the  locusclassicus  upon	 the subject, namely Lee v.  Butler  (1)  inwhich the transaction was described by Lord Esher, M.R.,  as"Hire and Purchase Agreements" and Helby v. Matthews (2)  inwhich  the House of Lords distinguished the former  case  onthe ground that in that case there was a binding contract tobuy and not merely an option to buy, without any  obligationto  buy.  Both these cases were decided in terms of  FactorsAct of 1889 (52 & 53 Viet. c. 45, s. 9).  Both the kinds  ofagreements  exemplified by the two leading  cases  aforesaidwould  now be included in the definition of  'hire-purchase'as contained in s. 21 of the Hire Purchase Act, 1938 (1 &  2Geo., 6, c. 53):-"'Hire-purchase	 agreement'  means  an	agreement  for	 thebailment of goods under which the bailee(1) [1893] 2 Q.B. 318. (2) (1895] A.C. 471.655may  buy the goods or under which the property in the  goodswill or may pass to the bailee, and where, by virtue of	 twoor  more agreements, none of which by itself  constitutes  ahire-purchase  agreement, there is a bailment of  goods	 andeither the bailee may buy the goods, or the property thereinwill  or  may pass to the bailee, the  agreements  shall  betreated	 for the purposes of this Act as a single  agreementmade at the time when the last of the agreements was made."	      It  is  clear that under the Law,	 as  it	 now	      stands,  which has now been crystallised	into	      the  section of the Hire Purchase Act,  quoted	      above, the transaction partakes of the  nature	      of  a contract or bailment with an element  of	      sale, as aforesaid, added to it.	'in such  an	      agreement,  the  hirer  may not  be  bound  to	      purchase	the thing hired;. he may or may	 not	      be.   But	 in  either case,  if  there  is  an	      obligation  to buy, or an option to  buy,	 the	      goods  delivered to the hirer by the owner  on	      the  terms  that the hirer, on  payment  of  a	      premium  as also of a number  of	instalments,	      shall  enjoy  the	 use  of  the  goods,  which	      ultimately   may	become	his  property,	 the	      transaction  amounts to one of  hire-purchase,	      even  though  the	 title	to  the	 goods	 has	      remained with the owner and shall not pass  to	      the hirer until a certain event has  happened,	      namely,  that all the  stipulated	 instalments	      have   been  paid,  or  that  the	 hirer	 has	      exercised his option to finalise the  purchase	      on payment of a sum, nominal or otherwise.But it has been contended on behalf of the petitioners	thatthere is no binding agreement to purchase the goods and thattitle is retained by the owner not as a security for paymentof the price but absolutely.  According to third term of theagreement,  on the hirer duly performing and  observing	 theterms  of  the agreement, with particular reference  to	 thepayment	 of the monthly instalments, "the hiring shall	cometo an end and the vehicle shall, at the option of the hirer,become	his  absolute property; but until such	payments  asaforesaid  have	 been  made, the vehicle  shall	 remain	 theproperty  of  the  owners.  The hirer shall  also  have	 theoption of purchasing the vehicle at any656belonging to him may be, the name and residence of the	saidperson	and the amount of penalty or increased rate of	dutyunrecovered; and such Magistrate shall thereupon proceed  toenforce payment of the said amount in like manner as if suchpenalty	 or  increased	rate had been a	 fine  inflicted  byhimself."These sections show the punishments provided for the  breachof the prohibitions in regard to importation or	 exportationof  goods  under  ss. 18 and 19; the power  of	the  CustomsAuthorities to give an option to pay in lieu of confiscationand how the penalties are to be imposed.  Therefore when theappellants  incurred the liability they did so as a  penaltyfor an infraction of the law; but it cannot be said that themoney which they had to pay was not paid as a penalty and infact under s. 167(8) it was a penalty.In  support of his argument counsel for the  appellant	firmreferred to Maqbool Hussain etc. v. The State of Bombay etc.(1)  and to the following passage at p. 742 where  Bhagwati,J., said:-"Confiscation  is  no doubt one of the penalties  which	 theCustoms	 Authorities  can  impose but that is  more  in	 thenature	of proceedings in rem than proceedings in  personam,the  object  being to confiscate the offending	goods  whichhave  been dealt with contrary to the provisions of the	 lawand  in respect of the confiscation also an option is  givento  the	 owner of the goods to pay in lieu  of	confiscationsuch  fine as the officer thinks fit.  All this is  for	 theenforcement of the levy of and safeguarding the recovery  ofthe sea customs duties."Similar	 observations  were  made  by  S.  K.  Das,  J.,  inShewpujanrai Indrasanrai Ltd. v. The Collector of Customs  &Ors. (2) where it was said that a distinction must be  drawnbetween an action in rem and proceeding in personam and thatconfiscation  of  the goods is a proceeding in rem  and	 thepenalties  are	enforced  against  the	goods  whether	 theoffender  is known or not.  The view taken by this Court  inthe  other  two cases cited by counsel for  the	 appellants,i.e., Leo Roy(1) [1953] S.C.R. 730.	 (2) [1959] S.C.R. 821, 836.657Frey v. The Superintendent, District Jail, Amritsar (1)	 andThomas Dana v. The State of Punjab (2) is the same.  In Danacase (2) Subba Rao, J., said at p. 298:-"If  the authority concerned makes an order of	confiscationit  is only a proceeding in rem and the penalty is  enforcedagainst	 the  goods.   On the other hand, if  it  imposes  apenalty	 against  the person concerned, it is  a  proceedingagainst	 the  person and he is punished for  committing	 theoffence.  It follows that in the case of confiscation  thereis  no	prosecution against the person or  imposition  of  apenalty on him."In Maqbool Hussain's case (3) the question for decision	 waswhether	 after	proceedings  had been taken  under  the	 SeaCustoms Act an accused person could be prosecuted and  couldor  could not rely upon the plea of double jeopardy, it	 washeld  that  he could not.  In Shewpujanrai's  case  (4)	 thecontention raised was that after proceedings had been  takenunder the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act it was not open tothe  Customs  Authorities to take any action under  the	 SeaCustoms	 Act.  The other two cases were similar	 to  MaqboolHussain's case (3).  The contention now raised before us  isquite different.  What is to be decided in the present	caseis whether the penalty which was paid by the appellant	firmwas  an	 allowable  deduction within  s.  10(2)(xv)  of	 theIncome-tax Act which provides:S.  10(2)(xv) "any expenditure (not being in the  nature  ofcapital	 expenditure or personal expenses of  the  assessee)laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the  purposeof such business, profession or vocation."The  words  "for  the purpose of such  business"  have	beenconstrued in Inland Revenue v. Anglo Brewing Co. Ltd. (5) tomean  "for  the purpose of keeping the trade  going  and  ofmaking	it  pay".  The essential condition of  allowance  isthat  the expenditure should have been laid out or  expendedwholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business.(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 822. (2) [1959] Supp.  I S.C.R. 274, 298.(3) [1953] S.C.R. 730. (4) [1959] S.C.R. 821, 836.(5) (1925) 12 T.C. 803, 813.658In  deciding  this  case, reference  to	 decisions  in	someEnglish cases will be fruitful.	 In Commissioners of  InlandRevenue v. Warnes & Co. (1), the assessee who carried on thebusiness  of  oil exporters were sued for a  penalty  on  aninformation exhibited by the Attorney-General under the	 SeaCustoms	  Consolidation	 Act  for  breach  of	orders	 andproclamations.	 The  matter was settled by consent  on	 theassessee agreeing to pay a mitigated penalty of pound 2,000.All  imputations on the moral culpability of  the  assesseeswere withdrawn.	 The provisions of the Act under which	thisinformation  was lodged and penalty paid was similar to	 theprovisions  of the Indian Sea Customs Act.  This amount	 washeld  not  to be a proper deduction because in order  to  bewithin the provision similar to s. 10(2) (xv) of the  IndianAct   the  loss	 had  to  be  something	 within	  commercialcontemplation  and  in	the nature  of	a  commercial  loss.Rowlatt, J., relying on the observation of Lord Loreburn, L.C., in Strong & Co. v.	 Woodifield (2) said at p. 452:-"but  it  seems to me that a penal liability  of  this	kindcannot	be regarded as a loss connected with or arising	 outof  a trade.  I think that a loss connected with or  arisingout of a trade must, at any rate, amount to something in thenature of a loss which is contemplable and in the nature  ofa commercial loss.  I do not intend that to be an exhaustivedefinition,  but I do not think it is possible to  say	thatwhen  a fine--which is what the penalty in the present	caseamounted  to-has been inflicted upon a trading body, it	 canbe said that that is a "loss connected, with or arising	 outof" the trade within the meaning of this rule."This statement of the law was approved in the  Commissionersof  Inland  Revenue v. Alexander Von Glehn &  Co.  Ltd.	 (3)where  also  in	 similar circumstances	by  consent  of	 theassessee  penalty  of pound 3,000 was paid and	the  penaltyplus the costs were claimed as deduction in arriving at	 theprofits.   The	Special	 Commissioners had  found  that	 thepenalty	 and  costs  were incurred by the  assessee  in	 thecourse of carrying on(1) [1919] 2 K.B. 444.		  (2) [1906] A.C. 448.(3) [1920] .2 K.B. 553.659their  trade and so incidental thereto and  were  admissibledeductions.  Rowlatt, J., on a reference held it to    be  anon-deductible item.  This judgment was affirmed  on  appealby the Court of Appeal.	 Lord Sterndale, M.  R., was of	 theopinion	 that  it  was immaterial  whether  technically	 theproceedings  were criminal or not.  The money that was	paidwas  paid  as  a penalty and it did not	 matter	 if  in	 theinformation it was called a forfeiture.It  was	 argued by the assessee in that case that  no  moralobliquity was attributed to them and that it did not  matterwhether	 the  expense  was incurred  in	 consequence  of  aninfraction of the law or whether it was a penalty for  doingan illegal act.	 At p. 565 Lord Sterndale said:-"Now  what  is	the  position  here?   This  business  couldperfectly  well be carried on without any infraction of	 thelaw.   This penalty was imposed because of an infraction  ofthe  law, and that does not seem to me to be, any more	thanthe  expense  which  had  to be paid  in  Strong  &  Co.  v.Woodifield (1) appeared to Lord Davey to be, a	disbursementor expense which was laid out or expended for the purpose ofsuch trade......."Warrington L.J. said at p.569:-"It is a sum which the persons conducting the trade have hadto  pay	 because in conducting it they have so acted  as  torender	themselves  liable  to this penalty.  It  is  not  acommercial  loss, and I think when the Act speaks of a	lossconnected  with	 or  arising out of such trade	it  means  acommercial  loss,  connected  with or  arising	out  of	 thetrade."In Strong & Co. v. Woodifield (1) a brewing company owned  alicensed house in which they carried on the business of inn-keepers.   They	 incurred  a liability	to  pay	 damages  onaccount	 of injuries caused to a visitor, by the falling  inof  a chimney.	This sum was held not to be allowable  as  adeduction in computing the profits' Lord Loreburn, L. C., inhis speech said no sum could be deducted unless it be  moneywholly and exclusively laid out or expended for the  purposeof such(1)  (1906) A.C. 448.660trade  and that only such losses could be deducted  as	wereconnected  with	 it  in	 the sense  that  they	were  reallyincidental  to	the  trade  itself and	they  could  not  bededucted  if  they  were mainly	 incidental  to	 some  othervocation or fell on the trader in some character other	thanthat  of  a  trader.   Lord  Davey  observed:"I	 think	 thedisbursements  permitted  are  such as	are  made  for	thatpurpose.  It is not enough that the disbursement is made  inthe  course  of, or arise out of, or is connected  with	 thetrade  or is made out of the profits of the trade.  It	mustbe made for the purpose of earning profits."The  following passage from Lord Sterndale's judgment at  p.566  in	 Von  Glehn's case (1) from which  we  have  alreadyquoted	shows the effect of incurring a penalty as a  resultof a breach of the law:"During	 the course of the trading this company committed  abreach	of the law.  As I say, it has been agreed that	theydid  not intend to do anything wrong in the sense that	theywere willingly and knowingly sending these goods to an enemydestination; but they committed a breach of the law, and forthat breach of the law, they were fined.  That, as it  seemsto me, was not a loss connected with the business, but was afine  imposed  upon  the company personally,  so  far  as  acompany	 can be considered to be a person, for a  breach  ofthe  law  which it had committed.  It is  perhaps  a  littledifficult  to put the distinction into very exact  language,but  there  seems  to  me  to  be  a  difference  between  acommercial  loss  in trading and a penalty  imposed  upon  aperson or a company for a breach of the law which they	havecommitted  in  that trading.  For that reason I	 think	thatboth  the  decision of Rowlatt, J., in this  case,  and	 hisformer decision in Inland Revenue Commissioners v.  Warnes &Co.  (2) which he followed were right, and that this  appealshould be dismissed with costs."In  Spofforth  and Prince v. Glider (3) the assessee  was  afirm  of chartered accountants, who claimed a deduction	 forcertain legal costs paid in connection with a(1) [1920) 2 K.B. 55.3.		 (2) [1919] 2 K.B. 444.(3) (1945) 26 T.C. 310.661successful defence of one of the partners in a Police Court.The  assessee  firm also sought legal advice  in  regard  tomatters	 connected  with  some	proceedings.   Summons	wereissued	against	 the  assessee	firm  but  were	  eventuallydismissed.   The  assessee contended that the whole  of	 thecosts  incurred	 in  connection with  the  proceedings	were"wholly	 and  exclusively"  laid out  or  expended  for	 theappellant's   profession   and	were   therefore   allowabledeductions.   The Special Commissioner had held against	 theassessee which was upheld by the Court.	 The test laid	downby Lord Davey in Strong & Co. v. Woodifield (1) was  appliedand applying that test it was held that except the  expensesfor  obtaining	legal  advice the other	 expenses  were	 notadmissible.In Farrie v. Hall (2) F, a sugar broker was sued in the HighCourt  for  libel  and	the Court  held	 that  F  had  actedmaliciously  and  that the defence of  privilege  could	 notprevail and awarded damages against him.  F sought to  claimthe  amount of damages as an allowable deduction  contendingthat  it was an expenditure laid out wholly and	 exclusivelyfor  the purposes of his trade or was a loss connected	withor  arising  out of the trade.	Relying on the	cases  abovementioned this amount was disallowed because it fell on	 theassessee in his character of a calumniator of a rival  sugarbroker and it was only remotely connected with his trade  asa  sugar broker.  Therefore it was not laid out	 exclusivelyand  wholly for the purpose of his business.  We  were	alsoreferred to the observations of Danckwerts, J. in Newson  v.Robertson  (3) where it was said that if the expenditure  isincurred  by  the  tax-payer  for  more	 than  one  -purposeincluding  the commercial purposes in the sense that  it  isincurred  for the purposes of earning profits of  the  tradeand  also some outside purpose then the expenses  cannot  beclaimed at all as not being wholly and exclusively laid	 outor  expended  for the purpose of the trade.   In  that	caseexpenses claimed by a Barrister for(1) [1906] A.C. 448.	     (2) [1947] 28 T.C. 200.(3) [1952] 33 T.C. 452, 459.84662travelling   between  his  house  and  his   chambers	weredisallowed because his object and purpose in travelling	 wasmixed  and not wholly and exclusively for the	  purpose ofthe profession.Coming now to Indian cases; In Mask & Co. v. Commissioner ofIncome-tax,  Madras  (1)  the  assessee	 in  breach  of	 hiscontract  sold	crackers at a lower rate and  a	 decree	 waspassed against him for damages for breach of contract  whichhe  claimed as an allowable deduction.	It was held that  asthe  assessee had disregarded the undertaking given and	 hisconduct	 was  palpably dishonest it did	 not  constitute  anallowable  expenditure.	  Sir  Lionel Leach,  C.  J.,  afterreferring to Warne's case (2) and Von Glehn's case (3)	heldthat  the amount did not constitute an	expenditure  fallingwithin s. 10(2)(xii).  The Madras High Court in SenthikumaraNadar & Sons v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras (4)	heldthat payments of penalty for an in. fraction of the law felloutside	 the  scope  of	 permissible  deductions  under	  s.10(2)(xv).  In that case the assessee had to pay  liquidateddamages	 which	was  akin to penalty  incurred	for  an	 actopposed	 to  public policy a policy  underlying	 the  CoffeeMarket Expansion Act, 1942, and which was left to the CoffeeBoard to enforce.Reference  was also made during the course of  arguments  toCommissioner of Income-tax v. Hirjee (1).  In that case	 theassessee was prosecuted under the Hoarding and	ProfiteeringOrdinance  but was finally acquitted and claimed the  amountspent  in  defending  himself  under  s.  10(2)(xv)  in	 hisassessment.   It was held that the distinction	between	 thelegal expenses on a successful and unsuccessful defence	 wasnot sound and that the deductibility of such expenses  unders.  10(2)(xv) must depend on the nature and purpose  of	 thelegal proceedings in relation to the business whose  profitsare  in computation and are unaffected by the final  outcomeof the proceedings.A review of these cases shows that expenses which(1)  [1943] 11 I.T.R. 454.(3)  [1920] 2 K.B. 553.(2)  [1910] 2 K.B 444.(4)  [1957] 32 I.T.R. 138(5)  [1953] S.C.R. 714.663are  permitted	as deductions are such as are made  for	 thepurpose	 of  carrying  on the business, i.e.,  to  enable  aperson to carry on and earn profit in that business.  It  isnot enough that the disbursements are made in the course  ofor  arise  out of or are concerned with or made out  of	 theprofits	 of  the  business but they must  also	be  for	 thepurpose	 of  earning the profits of the	 business.   As	 waspointed	 out in Von Glehn's case (1) an expenditure  is	 notdeductible  unless  it is a commercial loss in trade  and  apenalty	 imposed for breach of the law during the course  oftrade  cannot be described as such.  If a sum is paid by  anassessee  conducting his business, because in conducting  ithe  has acted in a manner, which has rendered him liable  topenalty	 it cannot be claimed as a deductible  expense.	  Itmust  be  a commercial loss and in its nature must  be	con-templable as such.  Such penalties which are incurred by  anassessee   in  proceedings  launched  against  him  for	  aninfraction  of	the law cannot be called  commercial  lossesincurred  by  an  assessee  in	carrying  on  his  business.Infraction  of the law is not a normal incident of  businessand therefore only such disbursements can be deducted as arereally	incidental to the business itself.  They  cannot  bededucted  if  they fall on the assessee	 in  some  characterother  than that of a trader.  Therefore where a penalty  isincurred  for  the contravention of any	 specific  statutoryprovision, it cannot be said to be a commercial loss fallingon the assessee as a trader the test being that the expenseswhich  are for the purpose of enabling a person to carry  ontrade  for making profits in the business are permitted	 butnot if they are merely connected with the business.It  was argued that unless the penalty is of a nature  whichis  personal  to the assessee and if it	 is  merely  orderedagainst	 the  goods imported it is an  allowable  deduction.That,  in our opinion, is an erroneous	distinction  becausedisbursement  is  deductible  only if  it  falls  within  s.10(2)(xv) of the Income-tax Act and no such deduction can bemade unless it falls within the test laid down in the  casesdiscussed above and it can be said to be expenditure  whollyand  exclusively laid for the purpose of the business.	 Canit be said(1)  (1920) 2 K.B. 553.664that  a	 penalty  paid for an infraction of  the  law,	eventhough it may involve no personal liability in the sense  ofa  fine	 imposed for an offence committed, is	 wholly	 andexclusively  laid  for the business in the  sense  as  thosewords are used in the cases that have been discussed  above.In  our opinion, no expense which is paid by way of  penaltyfor  a breach of the law can be said to be an amount  whollyand  exclusively laid for the purpose of the business.	 Thedistinction sought to be drawn between a personal  liabilityand a liability of the kind now before us is not sustainablebecause anything done which is an infraction of the law	 andis visited with a penalty cannot on grounds of public policybe  said  to be a commercial expense for the  purpose  of  abusiness or a disbursement made for the purposes of  earningthe profits of such business.In  our opinion the High Court rightly held that the  amountclaimed	 was  not deductible and we therefore  dismiss	thisappeal with costs.				Appeal dismissed.