PETITIONER:THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:BALDEO PRASADDATE OF JUDGMENT:03/10/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  293		  1961 SCR  (1) 970 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1962 SC1371	 (42) R	    1971 SC 481	 (47) R	    1971 SC1667	 (29) RF	    1982 SC 710	 (60)ACT: Goondas,  Control and Exclusive of--Constitutional  validity of enactment--Test--Central Provinces and Berar Goondas Act, 1946  (X  Of 1946) as amended by Act XLIX of  1950,  ss.  4, 4-A--Constitution of India, Arts. 19(1)(d) & (e), 13.HEADNOTE: By an order passed under s. 4-A of the Central Provinces and Berar	Goondas	 Act,  1946 (X of 1946), as  amended  by  the Madhya Pradesh Act XLIX of 950, the State of Madhya  Pradesh directed the respondent to leave the district of Chhindwara, which had been specified as a proclaimed area under the Act, and  the District Magistrate by another  order	 communicated the  same to the respondent.  The respondent challenged  the said orders under Art. 226 of the Constitution on the ground that  the  Act violated his fundamental  rights  under	 Art. i9(i)(d)  and	(e) of the Constitution and  was,  therefore, invalidated by Art. 13 Of the Constitution.  The High	Court held that ss. 4 and 4-A of the impugned Act were invalid and since they were the 971 main operative provisions of the Act, the whole Act was  in- valid. Held,	that  when  a statute  authorises  preventive  action against the citizens, it is essential that it must expressly provide  that	the  specified	authorities  should   satisfy themselves  that the conditions precedent laid down  by  the statute  existed  before  they	 acted	thereunder.   If  the statute  fails	 to do so in respect of	 any  such  condition precedent,  that  is  an infirmity sufficient	to  take  the statute out of Art. 19(5) Of the Constitution. Although  there  can be no doubt that ss. 4 and 4-A  of  the impugned  Act clearly contemplated as the primary  condition precedent to any action thereunder that the person sought to be proceeded against must be a goonda, they fail to  provide that  the  District Magistrate should first  find  that  the person	 sought	 to  be proceeded against  was	a  goonda  or provide any guidance whatsoever in that regard or afford any opportunity to the person proceeded against to show that  he was  not a goonda.  The definition of a goonda laid down  by the  Act, which is of an inclusive character,	indicated  no tests for deciding whether the person fell within the	first part of the definition. Gurbachan  Singh v. The State of Bombay, [1952] S.C.R.	 737, Bhagubhai Dullabhabhai Bhandari v. The District' Magistrate, Thana, [1956] S.C.R. 533 and Hari Khenu Gawali v. The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Bombay, [1956] S.C.R. 506,  referred to. Although the object of the impugned Act was beyond  reproach and might well attract Art. 19(5) of the Constitution, since the  Act itself failed to provide sufficient safeguards  for the  protection of the fundamental rights and the  operative sections  were	 thus rendered invalid, the entire  Act	 must fail.JUDGMENT: CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 271 of 1956. Appeal from the judgment and order dated August 2, 1955,  of the  former Nagpur High Court in Misc.	 Petition No. 249  of 1955. M.  Adhikari,	Advocate-General  for  the  State  of  Madhya Pradesh,  B.  K.  B.  Naidu  and  I.  N.  Shroff,  for	  the appellants. R. Patnaik, for the respondent. 1960.	October 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GAJENDRAGADKAR.  J.-This appeal with a certificate issued by the Nagpur High Court under Art. 132(1) of the	 Constitution raises	 a  question  about  the  validity  of	the   Central Provinces and Berar Goondas 972 Act X of 1946 as amended by Madhya Pradesh Act XLIX of 1950. It  appears  that against the respondent Baldeo  Prasad  the State	of  Madhya Pradesh, appellant 1, passed an  order  on June  16, 1955, under s. 4-A of the Act.   Subsequently  the District Magistrate, Chhindwara, appellant 2, passed another order	dated June 22, 1955, communicating to the  respondent the   first  externment  order	 passed	 against  him.	  The respondent then filed'a writ petition in the High Court (No. 249 of 1955) under Art. 226 challenging the validity of  the said  orders, inter alia, on the ground that the  Act	under which	the said orders were passed was itself	ultra  vires. The  appellants disputed the respondent's  contention	about the  vires of the Act.	 The High Court, however, has  upheld the respondent's plea and has held that ss. 4 and 4-A of the Act are invalid, and since the two sections contain the main operative  provisions	of  the Act, according	to  the	 High Court, the whole Act became invalid.  It is the  correctness of  this  conclusion which is challenged before  us  by  the appellants. It would be convenient at this stage to refer briefly to the scheme of the Act and its relevant provisions.	 The Act  was passed in 1946 and came into force on September 7, 1946.  It was subsequently amended and the amended Act came into force on  November  24, 1950.  As the preamble shows the  Act  was passed	 because it was thought expedient to provide for  the control  of  goondas  and  for	 their	removal	 in   certain circumstances from one place to another.  Section 2  defines a  goonda as meaning a hooligan, rough or a vagabond and  as including  a,	person who is dangerous to  public  peace  or tranquillity.	It would thus be seen that the definition  of the  word  "  goonda " is an inclusive	 definition,  and  it includes  even persons who may not be hooligans,  roughs  or vagabonds if they are otherwise dangerous to public peace or tranquillity.	Section 3(1) empowers the State Government to issue a proclamation that disturbed conditions exist or  are likely	 to  arise in the areas specified in  such  proclama- tions if the State Government is satisfied that public peace or tranquillity in any area is disturbed or is 973 likely	 to  be disturbed.  The area in respect	 of  which  a proclamation  is thus issued is described in the Act as  the proclaimed  area.  Section 3(2) limits the operation of  the proclamation to three months from its date and provides that it  may be renewed by notification from time to time  for  a period	 of  three months at a time.  The first	 step  to  be taken in enforcing the operative provisions of the Act	 thus is  that  a  proclamation has to be  issued  specifying  the proclaimed  areas,  and the limitation on the power  of  the State	Government to issue such a proclamation is  that  the proclamation  can  be issued only after it is	satisfied  as required  by s. 3(1), and its life will not be	 longer	 than three months at a stretch.  Section 4 reads thus: "  4(1).   During the period the proclamation	of  emergency issued	 or  renewed  under Section 3 is  in  operation,  the District Magistrate having jurisdiction in or in any part of the proclaimed area, if satisfied that there are  reasonable grounds  for believing that the presence, movements or	 acts of  any goonda in the proclaimed area is prejudicial to  the interests  of	the  general  public  or  that	a  reasonable suspicion exists that any goonda is committing or is  likely to  commit  acts calculated to disturb the public  peace  or tranquillity may make an order- (i)  directing such goonda to notify his residence  and  any change	 of  or absence from such residence during  the	 term specified and to report his movements in such manner and  to such authority as may be specified ; (ii)  directing that he shall not remain in  the  proclaimed area  within his jurisdiction or any specified part  thereof and shall not enter such area; and (iii) directing him so to conduct himself during the period specified as the  District Magistrate  shall deem necessary in the interests of  public order:	 Provided  that	 no order  under  clause  (ii)	which directs the exclusion of any goonda from a place in which he ordinarily  resides shall be made except with	the  previous approval of the State Government: Provided further that no such order shall be    124 974 made directing exclusion of any goonda from the district  in which he ordinarily resides. (2)  No  order	 under sub-section (1) shall  be  made	by  a District Magistrate in respect of a goonda without giving to such  goonda  a copy of the grounds on which  the  order  is proposed to be made and without giving an opportunity to  be heard : Provided  that where the District Magistrate is  of  opinion that  it is necessary to make an order without any delay  he may  for reasons to be recorded in writing, make  the	order and  shall, as soon as may be within ten days from the	 date on  which the order is served on the goonda concerned,	 give such  goonda a copy of the grounds and an opportunity to  be heard. (3)  After hearing the goonda, the District Magistrate	  may cancel or modify the order as he thinks fit.  " This section confers on the District Magistrate jurisdiction to  make an order against a goonda if there  are  reasonable grounds  for believing that his presence, movements or	 acts in  any proclaimed area is likely to be prejudicial  to  the interests of the general public, or it there is a reasonable suspicion that a goonda is committing or is likely to commit prejudicial acts.  Sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii)  indicate the  nature  of  the  directions  and	the  extent  of	  the restrictions  which can be placed upon a goonda by an	order passed	 under	s. 4. Sub-section (2) requires	the  District Magistrate to give the goonda a copy of the grounds on which an  order  is	proposed  to be made,  and  to	give  him  an opportunity  to  be heard why such an order  should  not  be passed	 against him.  The proviso to the section deals	 with an  emergency which needs immediate action.   After  hearing the  goonda  the District Magistrate may  under  sub-s.  (3) either cancel or modify the order as he thinks fit. Section 4-A reads thus: "   (1) Where the District Magistrate considers that with  a view	to  maintain  the  peace  and  tranquillity  of	  the proclaimed area in his district it is necessary to direct  a goonda	 to remove himself outside the district in which  the proclaimed area is comprised or 975 to  require him to reside or remain in any place  or  within any area outside such district, the District Magistrate may, after	giving the goonda an opportunity as required by	 sub- section  (2) of Section 4 forward to the State Government  a report together with connected papers with a  recommendation in that behalf (2) On receipt of such report the State  Government may,  if it is satisfied that the recommendation made by the District Magistrate  is in the interests of the general public,	 make an order directing such goonda- (a)  that  except in so far as he may be  permitted  by  the provisions  of the order, or by such authority or person  as may  be specified therein, he shall not remain in  any	 such area  or place in Madhya Pradesh as may be specified in  the order; (b) to reside or remain in such place or within such area in Madhya Pradesh as may be specified in the order and if he is not  already there to proceed to that place or	 area  within such time as may by specified in the order : Provided that no order shall be made directing the exclusion or removal from the State of any person ordinarily  resident in the State." Thus  an  order more stringent in character  can  be  passed under this section.  The safeguard provided by the  section, however, is that the District Magistrate is required to give the  goonda an opportunity to be heard and further  required to make a report to the State Government and forward to  the State	Government papers connected with  the  recommendation which the District Magistrate makes.  Sub-section (2) of  s. 4-A  then  requires  the State Government  to	consider  the matter and empowers it to make an order either under cl. (a) or  cl.  (b) of the said sub-section.	The proviso  to	 this section  lays down that Do order shall be made by which  the goonda would be excluded or removed from the State where  he ordinarily resides.  The last section to which reference may be  made  is s. 6. It gives a goonda aggrieved by  an	order made against him, inter alia, under s. 4 or s. 4-A to make a representation to the State Government within the 976 time  prescribed,  and it requires the State  Government  to consider the representation and make such orders thereon  as it may deem fit.  That in brief is the scheme of the Act. At  this  stage it would be material to state	the  relevant facts leading to the writ petition filed by the  respondent. Appellant  1 issued a proclamation under S. 3 on August  10, 1954,	specifying the limits of Police Stations Parasia  and Jamai	 and  Chhindwara  Town	as  proclaimed	area.	 This proclamation  was  renewed in November, 1954  and  February, 1955.	Thereafter on May 9, 1955, appellant 1 issued  afresh proclamation specifying the whole of the Chhindwara District as the proclaimed area.  This proclamation was to remain  in force till August 8, 1955. Whilst	 the  second  proclamation was in  force  the  second appellant received reports from the District  Superintendent of  Police,  Chhindwara,  against  the	 respondent,  and  he ordered  the  issue  of a notice to him to  show  cause  why action	 should	 not be taken against him under	 s.  4;	 this notice	 required the respondent to appear before the  second appellant on April 29, 1955.  The respondent, though served, did  not appear before the second appellant.  Thereupon  the second	 appellant sent a report to appellant 1 on April  30, 1955, and submitted the case against him with a draft	order for the approval of the said appellant under the first	 pro- viso to s. 4(1).  In the meantime the third notification was issued	 by appellant 1. The second appellant then  issued  a fresh	notice against the respondent under s. 4 on  May  24, 1955.	 The respondent appeared in person on May  30,	1955, and  was given time to file his written statement  which  he did on June 4, 1955.  The case was then fixed for hearing on June  22,  1955.  Meanwhile the State Government  passed  an order on June 16, 1955, directing that the respondent shall, except	 in  so	 far as he may be  permitted  by  the  second appellant  from  time to time, not remain in  any  place  in Chhindwara  District.	 This order was to  remain  in	force until	August	8,  1955.   On	June  22,  1955,  the  second appellant communicated the said order to the respondent  and directed him to leave the District 977 before	 10 a. m. on June 23, 1955.  The respondent  appealed to appellant 1 to cancel the order passed against him.	  The first appellant treated the appeal as a representation	 made by  the  respondent under s. 6 and rejected it	 on  July  9, 1955.	 A  day before this order was passed  the  respondent filed	his  writ petition in the High Court from  which  the present appeal, arises. The  respondent  challenged the validity of the Act  on  the ground	 that  it invades his fundamental rights  under	 Art. 19(1)(d)  and	(e)  and as such it  becomes  invalid  having regard	 to  the provisions of Art. 13 of  the	Constitution. This  plea has been upheld by the High Court.	On behalf  of the  appellants  the  learned	Advocate-General  of   Madhya Pradesh contends that the High Court was in error in  coming to  the conclusion that the restrictions imposed by the  Act did   not  attract  the  provisions  of  Art.	19(5).	  The legislative competence of the State Legislature to pass  the Act  cannot  be disputed.  The Act relates to	public	order which was Entry I in List II of the Seventh Schedule to  the Constitution  Act of 1935.  There can also be no doubt	 that the  State  Legislature would be competent to	pass  an  act protecting  the interests of the general public against  the commission  of prejudicial acts which disturb	public	peace and  order.  Section 3 of the Act indicates that it is	 only where the public peace or tranquillity is threatened in  any 'given	 area  of  the State that  the	State  Government  is authorised  to issue a proclamation, and as we have  already noticed,  it is in respect of such proclaimed areas and  for the  limited duration prescribed by s. 3(2) that orders  can be  passed against goondas whose prejudicial activities  add to  the  disturbance in the  proclaimed  areas.   Therefore, broadly  stated  the  purpose of the  Act  is	to  safeguard individual rights and protect innocent and peaceful citizens against  the prejudicial activities of goondas, and in	 that sense	the  Act may prima facie claim the  benefit  of	 Art. 19(5).	 This position is not seriously disputed. The  argument against the validity of the Act	is,  however, based on one serious infirmity in s. 4 and 978 s.4-A	which  contain the operative provisions of  the	 Act. This  infirmity is common to both the sections, and so	 what we will say about s. 4 will apply with equal force to s.  4- A.   It  is clear that s. 4 contemplates  preventive  action being	taken provided two conditions are satisfied ;  first, that the presence, movements or acts of any person sought to be  proceeded against should appear to the  District  Magis- trate	to  be prejudicial to the interests  of	 the  general public,  or  that a reasonable suspicion should  exist	 that such  a  person is committing or is likely  to	 commit	 acts calculated  to	 disturb public peace or tranquillity  ;  and second that the person concerned must be a goonda.  It would thus be clear that it is only where prejudicial acts can  be attributed  to a goonda that s. 4 can come  into  operation. In  other  words, the satisfaction of	the  first  condition alone	would  not be enough ; both the	 conditions  must  be satisfied  before  action can be taken against	 any  person. That clearly means that the primary condition precedent  for taking	 action	 under s. 4 is that the person	against	 whom action	 is  proposed  to be taken is a	 goonda;  and  it  is precisely  in	regard	to this condition  that	 the  section suffers from a serious infirmity. The  section does not provide that the	 District  Magistrate must  first come to a decision that the person against	 whom he  proposes  to take action is a goonda, and gives  him  no guidance or assistance in the said matter.  It is true	 that under s. 4 a goonda is entitled to have an opportunity to be heard	after he is given a copy of the grounds on which  the order	is proposed to be made against him; but there  is  no doubt	that  all  that the goonda is  entitled	 to  show  in response  to the notice is to challenge the  correctness  of the  grounds  alleged	against him.  The  enquiry  does  not contemplate an investigation into the question as to whether a  person is a goonda or not.	The position,  therefore,  is that  the District Magistrate can proceed against  a  person without  being required to come to a formal decision  as  to whether the said person is a goonda or not; and in any event no opportunity is intended to be given to the person to show 979 that he is not a goonda.  The failure of the section to make a provision in that behalf undoubtedly constitutes a serious infirmity in its scheme. Incidentally it would also be relevant to point out that the definition  of the word " goonda " affords no assistance  in deciding  which citizen can be put under that category.   It is  an inclusive definition and it does not  indicate	which tests have to be applied in deciding whether a person	falls in  the  first	 part of the  definition.   Recourse  to  the dictionary  meaning  of  the word would  hardly  be  of  any assistance  in this matter.  After all it must be  borne  in mind  that  the Act authorises the  District  Magistrate  to deprive  a  citizen  of his  fundamental  right  under	 Art. 19(1)(d)  and (e), and though the object of the Act and  its purpose  would	 undoubtedly attract the provisions  of	 Art. 19(5)	care must always be taken in passing such  acts	 that they  provide sufficient safeguards against  casual,  capri- cious or even malicious exercise of the powers conferred  by them.	It is well known that the relevant provisions of  the Act are initially put in motion against a person at a	lower level	than  the District Magistrate, and so  it  is  always necessary  that sufficient safeguards should be provided  by the  Act  to  protect the  fundamental	 rights	 of  innocent citizens and to save them from unnecessary harassment.	 That is why we think the definition of the word " goonda " should have  given necessary assistance to the District  Magistrate in  deciding  whether a particular citizen falls  under  the category of goonda or not; that is another infirmity in  the Act.  As we have already pointed out s. 4-A suffers from the same infirmities as s. 4.  Having  regard  to  the  two	infirmities  in	 ss.  4,  4-A respectively we do not think it would be possible to  accede to  the  argument of the learned Advocate-General  that  the operative  portion of the Act can fall under Art.  19(5)  of the  Constitution.   The person against whom action  can  be taken	under the Act is not entitled to know the  source  of the  information received by the District Magistrate; be  is only  told  about his prejudicial activities  on  which  the satisfaction of the District Magistrate is based that action 980 should be taken against him under s. 4 or s. 4-A.  In such a case  it is-absolutely essential that the Act	must  clearly indicate by a proper definition or otherwise when and	under what  circumstances a person can be called a goonda, and  it must  impose  an obligation on the  District  Magistrate  to apply	his  mind to the question as to	 whether  the  person against  whom	complaints are received is such a  goonda  or not.  It has been urged before us that such an obligation is implicit  in ss. 4 and 4-A.  We are, however, not  impressed by  this argument.  Where a statute empowers  the  specified authorities  to take preventive action against the  citizens it  is essential that it should expressly make it a part  of the duty of the said authorities to satisfy themselves about the  existence	 of what the statute  regards  as  conditions precedent  to	the exercise of the said authority.   If  the statute  is  silent  in respect of one	 of  such  conditions precedent  it	undoubtedly constitutes a  serious  infirmity which would inevitably take it out of the provisions of Art. 19(5).	 The result of this infirmity is that it has left  to the  unguided	and unfettered discretion  of  the  authority concerned to treat any citizen as a goonda.  In other words, the  restrictions  which  it allows to	 be  imposed  on  the exercise of the fundamental right of a citizen guaranteed by Art.  19(1)(d) and (e) must in the circumstances be held  to be  unreasonable.  That is the view taken by the High	Court and we see no reason to differ from it. In this connection we may refer to the corresponding  Bombay statute the material provisions of which have been  examined and upheld by this Court.  Section 27 of the City of  Bombay Police	 Act,  1902  (4	 of 1902),  which  provides  for  the dispersal of gangs and bodies of persons has been upheld  by this  Court  in Gurbachan Singh v. The State of  Bombay  (1) whereas s. 56 and s. 57 of the subsequent Bombay Police Act, 1951  (22  of	1951), have been  confirmed  respectively  in Bhagubhai Dullabhabhai Bhandari v. The District  Magistrate, Thana	(2) and Hari Khemu Gawali v. The Deputy	 Commissioner of Police, Bombay (3).	 It would be (1) [1952] S.C.R. 737.		 (2) [1956] S.C.R. 533. (3)  [1956] S.C.R. 506. 981 noticed  that the relevant provisions in the latter Act  the validity of which has been upheld by this Court indicate how the mischief apprehended from the activities of  undesirable characters  can be effectively checked by making  clear  and specific provisions in that behalf, and how even in  meeting the   challenge  to  public  peace  and   order   sufficient safeguards can be included in the statute for the protection of  innocent'	citizens.   It	is  not	 clear	whether	  the opportunity  to  be heard which is provided for by  s.	 4(2) would include an opportunity to the person concerned to lead evidence.   Such an opportunity has, however, been  provided by  s. 59(1) of the Bombay Act of 1951.  As we have  already mentioned there can be no doubt that the purpose and  object of the Act are above reproach and that it is the duty of the State	 Legislature   to  ensure  that	 public	  peace	  and tranquillity is not disturbed by the prejudicial  activities of  criminals and undesirable characters in society.	That, however,  cannot  help the appellants' case because,  as  we have indicated, the infirmities in the operative sections of the  Act are so serious that it would be impossible to	 hold that the Act is saved under Art. 19(5) of the	Constitution. There is no doubt that if the operative sections are invalid the whole Act must fall. In  the  result  the  order passed  by	 the  High  Court  is confirmed and the appeal is dismissed with costs.		      Appeal dismissed. 982