PETITIONER:TILKESHWAR SINGH AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHAR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/12/1955BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR  238		  1955 SCR  (2)1043ACT:Evidence--Joint	 recording of statements made  by  witnessesduring investigation-Legality-Testimony of such witnesses incourt-Admissibility-Substitution  of a charge under s.	149,I.P.C.	for one under s. 34, I.P.C.-Validity-Accused  filingstatement  instead  of	being  examined	 in  court-Legality-Prejudice-Code of Criminal Procedure, (Act V of 1898), ss. 161(3), 342-Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860), ss. 34, 149.HEADNOTE:Although the joint recording of statements made by witnessesduring	an investigation is a contravention of s. 161(3)  ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure and must be disapproved, thatby  itself  does  not render the  testimony  given  by	suchwitnesses  in court inadmissible.  It is, however,  for	 thecourt  to decide whether it will rely on such  testimony  orattach any weight to it.Zahiruddin v. Emperor, (A.I.R. 1947 P.C. 75), applied.Baliram Tikaram v. Emperor, (A.I.R. 1945 Nag. 1) and  Magan-lal   Radhakishan  v.  Emperor,	 (A.I.R.  1946	Nag.   173),disapproved.Bejoy Chand Patra v. The State, (A.I.R. 1950 Cal. 363),	 ap-proved.The  court has power to substitute a charge under s. 149  ofthe Indian Penal Code for a charge under s. 34.Karnail	 Singh	and others v. The State of  Punjab,  ([1954]S.C.R. 904)and Willie Slaney's case, (Criminal Appeal No.  6of 1955), referred  to.Although  s. 342 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure  contem-plates	oral examination of the accused in court and  thoughthe   practice	of  filing  written  statements	 is  to	  bedeprecated,  the  fact that the accused	 filed	a  statementinstead	 of  being examined is no  ground  for	interferenceunless he is shown to have been prejudiced thereby.Consequently,  in a case where the accused were put  up	 fortrial under s. 302 read with s. 34 of the Indian Penal Code,and the Additional Sessions Judge relying on the evidence ofthree  of the prosecution witnesses whose statements  duringthe investigation were recorded jointly in contravention  ofs.  161(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, convicted	 andsentenced them to transportation for life and the High Courtin appeal agreed with the findings of fact, but altered	 theconviction  to	one  under s. 326 read with s.	149  of	 theIndian	Penal Code, as also the sentence,  their  convictionwas not liable to be set aside.1044JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 143  of1954.On appeal by special leave from the judgment and order datedthe  12th  August 1953 of the Patna High Court	in  CriminalAppeal No. 345 of 1952 arising out of the judgment and orderdated  the  20th  August 1952 of  the  Court  of  AdditionalSession Judge, Darbhanga in Session Case No. 12 of 1952.H.J. Umrigar and B. C. Prasad, for the appellant.B.K. Saran and M. M. Sinha, for the respondent..1955.	December 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AYYAR J.-The appellants were charged before	 theAdditional Sessions Judge, Darbhanga under section 302	readwith  section 34 of the Indian Penal Code for the murder  ofone  Balbbadra Narain Singh.  They were also  charged,	someunder section 147 and the others under section 148, for	 be-ing members of an unlawful assembly and for rioting.The case of the prosecution was as follows: The deceased andthe appellants were pattidars in the village I of Mahe,	 andthere was ill-feeling between them on account of the villagepattidari.   On 5-3-1951, at about 10 A.M. the deceased	 wasreturning  from the river to his baithka. Oil the  way,	 theappellants who were armed with bhalas, sword and lathi,	 andsome  others surrounded him at the courtyard of the  villageschool	and  attacked him.  One Harischandra Singh,  who  isstill absconding, plunged his bhala into the abdomen of	 thedeceased,  and the appellants joined in the attack  on	him.The  deceased  ran to his baithka, and from  there,  he	 wastaken  to the police station at Singhia.  There, he  made  acomplaint  which  has been filed as  the  first	 informationreport, and therein beset out the incidents mentioned above,and  implicated the appellants as concerned in	the  attack.The deceased was then taken to the hospital, and in view  ofhis  precarious	 condition  the doctor	recorded  his  dyingdeclaration.  The deceased was then sent1045for treatment to the hospital at Samastipur, but on the	 wayhe  died.  On the basis of the first information report	 andon  the	 enquiries  made by them,  the	police	charged	 theappellants under section 302 read with section 34 for murderand under sections 147 and 148 for rioting.  The defence  ofthe  appellant	was that the deceased was attacked  by	someunknown	 ,assailants  in his baithka in the early  hours  of5-3-1951, and that they were not concerned in the offence.The  Additional	 Sessions  Judge,  Darbbanga  accepted	 theevidence  of the prosecution, and convicted  the  appellantsunder  section 302 read with section 34, and sentenced	themto  transportation for life.  He also convicted	 them,	someunder  section	147 and the others under  section  148,	 butimposed	 no  separate sentence under  those  sections.	 Theappellants  took the matter in appeal to the High  Court  ofPatna., The learned Judges agreed with the Sessions Judge inhis conclusions of fact, but altered the conviction from oneunder section 302 read with section 34 to one under 'section326   read   with  section  149,  and  the   sentence	fromtransportation	for life to various terms  of  imprisonment.The  learned  Judges also maintained the conviction  of	 theappellants on the charge of rioting, but awarded no separatesentence  therefor.   It is against this judgment  that	 thepresent appeal is directed.On behalf of the appellants, it was firstly contended by Mr.Umrigar	 that  the  finding of the  courts  below  that	 theincident  took place at the school courtyard and not at	 thebaithka	 of  the deceased was bad, because it was  based  oninadmissible  evidence, viz., Exhibit P-7 and the  testimonyof  P.Ws.  4, 7 and 12.	 Exhibit P-7 is a statement  of	 thedeceased  taken	 by  the police officer	 subsequent  to	 thelodging of the first information and after the investigationhad begun, and its reception would be barred by section	 162of  the Code of Criminal Procedure.  But the learned  Judgesthought	 that it would be admissible under section 32(1)  ofthe Indian Evidence Act, and the correctness of this view isdisputed  by  the appellants.  But even if  Exhibit  P-7  isinadmissible in evidence,1046that would not assist the appellants, as the learned  Judgesobserved that apart from that document, they would have,  onthe  other evidence, held that the deceased was attacked  atthe school courtyard.Then, we come to the evidence of P.Ws. 4, 7 and 12 on  whichthe courts below have relied in accepting the version of theincident as given by the prosecution.  Mr. Umrigar contendedthat  their  evidence was inadmissible,	 because  they	wereexamined  by the police at the stage of	 investigation,	 andtheir statements were not recorded separately as required bysection	 161(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  This  iswhat  the  investigating  officer,  P.W.  18,  deposed	withreference to this matter."The  Daffadar	produced Sital Singh  (P.W.'12),  Ram  KaranSingh  (P.W.  7) and Ramkinker (P.W. 4).  First	 of  all,  Iexamined them separately but recorded their joint  statementin respect of common things.  I made a separate record aboutthe identification and the weapons".The  recording	of a joint statement of the  examination  ofP.Ws.  4,  7 and 12 is clearly in contravention	 of  section161(3),	 and  must  be disapproved.   But  the	question  iswhether	 that renders the testimony of P.Ws. 4, 7 and 12  incourt  inadmissible.   Section 161(3) does not say  so,	 andindeed,	 seeing	 that  the police are not bound	 to  make  arecord of the statements of witnesses in which case there isadmittedly  no bar to the reception of their  testimony,  itwould be anomalous if we were to hold that their evidence isinadmissible,  because the statements were also	 reduced  towriting but not in the manner provided in the section.	 TheIndian Evidence Act contains elaborate provisions as to	 whoare  competent witnesses and on what matters their  evidenceis inadmissible.  And on these provisions P.Ws. 4, 7 and  12are neither incompetent witnesses, nor is their evidence  asto  the incidents to which they deposed,  inadmissible.	  InZahiruddin  v. Emperor(1) it was held by the  Privy  Councilthat  the failure to comply with the provisions	 of  section162(1) might greatly(1)  A.I.R. 1947 P.C. 75.1047impair	the value of the evidence of the witness,  but	thatwould not affect its admissibility.  On the same  reasoning,it will follow that the evidence of P.Ws. 4, 7 and 12 is notinadmissible  for the reason that their statements had	beenrecorded  by P.W. 18 jointly and not separately as  requiredby section 161(3).In  support  of	 his  contention  that	their  evidence	  isinadmissible, Mr. Umrigar relied on the decisions in BaliramTikaram	  v.   Emperor(1)  and	 Maganlal   Radhakishan	  v.Emperor(2).   In Baliram Tikaram v. Emperor(1), which was  adecision under section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedurethe  accused  had  not been furnished  with  copies  of	 thestatements  recorded  by the police officers  under  section161,  and  it was held that that deprived the accused  of  avaluable  right,  and must have caused	prejudice  to  them.That was the view taken in Viswanath v. Emperor (3) , and noexception  can be taken to it.	But the learned Judges	wenton  to observe that the evidence of the witnesses  who	gavestatements   at	  the	investigation	would	itself	  beinadmissible.	The reason for this opinion was thus  statedby them:"How   can  the	 evidence  be  admissible  and	proper	 forconsideration  when the accused is robbed of  his  statutorymeans	of   cross-examination	and   thereby	denied	 theopportunity  of	 effectively  cross-examining  his   adversewitnesses?   No	 evidence recorded by the Court,  unless  itsatisfies the requirement of section 138, Evidence Act,	 canbecome	admissible and proper for consideration.   It  wouldindeed	be  bold to say that the evidence of  a	 witness  islegally	 admissible  against a party even though he  at	 thetime  it  was given had not the full opportunity  to  cross-examine him".This  view  was	 reiterated by the same	 learned  Judges  inMaganlal  Radhakishan  v. Emperor(2), but, for	the  reasonsalready	 given,	 we are unable to accept this as  a  correctstatement of the law.  We are of the opinion that while	 thefailure	 to comply with the requirements of  section  161(3)might affect the weight to be(1) A.I.R. 1945 Nag. 1.	      (2) A.I.R. 1946 Nag. 173.(3) I.L.R. [1937] Nag. 178,1048attached  to  the  evidence of the witnesses,  it  does	 notrender	it inadmissible.  That was so held by Harries,	C.J.and Bachawat, J. in Bejoy Chand Patra v. The State(1), wherethis  question	arose directly for decision, and we  are  inagreement  with	 this  view.   In  the	present	 case,	 theattention  of the learned Judges was drawn to the  infirmityin  the evidence of P.Ws.4, 7 and 12, arising by  reason  ofthe  failure  to  observe section  161(3),  but	 they  were,nevertheless,  prepared to accept it as reliable.   We	mustaccordingly  hold that the findings of the courts below	 arenot  open  to attack on the ground that they were  based  oninadmissible evidence.It  was	 next  contended  that	the  charge  on	 which	 theappellants  were tried was one under section 302  read	withsection	 34, and that the learned Judges of the	 High  Courterred in convicting them under section 326 read with section149.   Before  the learned Judges the  contention  that	 waspressed	 was  that  there  was no  power  in  the  court  tosubstitute section 149 for section 34, but they declined  toaccept	it.  The question has since been considered by	thisCourt in Karnail Singh and others v. The State of  Punjab(')and Willie Slaney's case(').  It is conceded by Mr.  Umrigarthat  in view of these decisions, the question is no  longeropen.  It must be answered adversely to the appellants.It  was	 finally  contended that there had  been  no  properexamination  of the appellants under section 342,  and	thatthe conviction should accordingly be quashed.  What happenedwas  that  when the court commenced  its  examination  undersection	 342,  the appellants stated that  they	 would	filewritten	 statements.  Those statements were  very  elaborateand furnished the answer of the appellants to all the pointsraised in the prosecution evidence.  Mr. Umrigar was  unableto  suggest  any question which could have  been  put,	withreference to which the statements did not contain an answer.Clearly, the appellants have not been prejudiced.  It is  nodoubt true that(1) A.I.R. 1950 Cal. 363.	(2) [1954] S.C.R. 904,(3)  Criminal Appeal No. 6 of 1955,1049section	 342 contemplates an 'examination in court) and	 thepractice of filing statements is to be deprecated.  But thatis  not	 a  ground for	interference,  unless  prejudice  isestablished.   And it is nothing unusual for the accused  toprefer	filing	statements instead  of	answering  questionsunder  section	342 lest they should suffer  by	 inadvertentadmissions  or by damaging statements.	As no prejudice	 hasbeen shown, this contention also must be rejected.In the result, the appeal is dismissed.