PETITIONER:BHATNAGARS AND CO.  LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA(and connected petitions)DATE OF JUDGMENT:21/02/1957BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  478		  1957 SCR  701ACT:Import and ExPort, Control of--Soda ash, if can be  importedwithout	 licence-Issue of licence, if amounts  to  delegatedlegislation-Trafficking	  in  licence  -   Confiscation	  ofconsignments   and  seizure  of	 licence  by   Sea   CustomsAuthorities - -Issue of Writs- -Policy Statement702by  Government,	 if amounts to	monopoly-Import	 and  Export(Control) Act, 1947 (XVIII of 1947), s. 3(1)(a)-Constitutionof India, Art. 32.HEADNOTE:The  petitioner	 obtained a licence for importing  soda	 ashduring	the free licencing period in 1952.  On the basis  ofthe  licence certain consignments of soda ash were  receivedin  Bombay.  'The Customs Authorities had reason to  suspectthat  the petitioner was trafficking in his licence  and  oninvestigation  found  that  two	 of  the  consignments	 hadactually  been	imported by another  party  and	 confiscatedthem'  The  petitioner	appealed to  the  Central  Board  ofRevenue and thereafter moved the Government of India, but tono effect.  The Collector of Customs ordered the goods to beauctioned.   Five petitions were filed in this	court  underArt.  32  of  the  Constitution seeking	 for  the  issue  ofappropriate  writs  in respect of the  confiscation  of	 thegoods  and  seizure  of the licence.  It  was  contended  onbehalf	of  the	 petitioner that  the  Imports	and  Exports(Control) Act, 1947 not having re-enacted the provisions  ofr.  84(2) Of the Defence of India Rules, S. 3(1)(a)  of	 theAct  had  no  application to soda ash  and  no	licence	 wasrequired   to  import  it  ;  that,  in	  the	alternative,legislation  authorisirig the issue of licences amounted  todelegated  legislation and was, therefore, invalid.  It	 wasfurther	 contended  that the Policy Statement  made  by	 theGovernment in the Press Note dated February 1955, and PublicNotice dated June 30, 1956, created a monopoly and infringedthe petitioner's fundamental right to carry on his trade andbusiness  and lastly, that the virtual invalidation  of	 hislicence having been improperly made should be set aside	 andthe  same  directed  to be  revalidated	 for  the  unexpiredperiod.Held,	that  the  contentions	raised	on  behalf  of	 thepetitioner must fail and the petitions must be dismissed.. IThe  language  Of  S. 3(1)(a) of  the  Imports	and  Exports(Control)  Act, 1947, made it abundantly clear that  it	 wasintended  to apply to the import of all goods  of  specifieddescription  covered  by r. 84(2) Of the  Defence  of  IndiaRules including soda ash so as to render the re-enactment ofthat rule wholly unnecessary.  The provision of the  sectionmust  be  read disjunctively and distributively and  it	 waswholly	unreasonable to suggest that the words 'import'	 and'export'  could	 be qualified by the  expressions  ,carriagecoastwise'  or 'shipment as ships' stores' occurring in	 thesection.Nor  could  the	 section be held to be ultra  vires  on	 theground	of  delegated legislation as the  preamble  and	 therelevant sections of the Act as also those of the Defence ofIndia  Act,  which  it purported to continue  and  to  whichreference  would  be  perfectly legitimate,  show  that	 theLegislature had clearly indicated the, policy and enunciatedthe  principles that were to guide those entrusted with	 theimplementation	of  the Act which had for  its	purpose	 themaintenance of supplies essential to the community.Harishankar  Bagla v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, (1955)  IS.C.R. 380, applied.703Pannalal  Binjraj v. The Union of India, (1957) S.C.R.	233,referred to.It  was perfectly open to the Government of India to  changeits import and export policy with a view to adjust it to thevarying needs of the country and if importers were found  toresort to malpractices leading to instability of prices,  itwould be its duty to intervene and regulate distribution, ifneed  be, with the assistance of importer-stockists  workingunder  its  general supervision and no	exception  could  betaken  to  such	 a policy on the ground that  it  created  amonopoly  or  infringed the fundamental right  to  carry  ontrade or business.As, in the instant case, the goods were lawfully confiscatedby   the  Sea  Customs	Authorities  as	 a  result   of	  aninvestigation which they were competent to make, it was	 notopen to the petitioner under Art. 32 of the Constitution  tochallenge their conclusions on the ground that they had	 notbeen  properly	drawn  and no question,	 therefore,  of	 anyrevalidation of. his licence could at all arise.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTI0N: Petitions Nos. 377 of1955 and 42, 46, 164 and 423 of 1956.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of fundamental rights'Petitioner  in person in Petitions Nos. 377 of 1955 and	 164and 423 of 1956.H.   J.	 Umrigar and Y. Kumar, for petitioner  in  PetitionsNos. 42 and 46 of 1956.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, PorusA.   Mehta  and R. H. Dhebar, for respondents  in  PetitionsNos. 42, 46 and 423 of 1956.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, B. Sen and  R.H.  Dhebar, for respondents in Petitions Nos.' 377  of	1955and 164 of 1956.1957.  February 21.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR J.-This is a group of five petitions filed bythe petitioners Messrs Bhatnagars & Co. Private Ltd.  In allthese  petitions,  the	petitioner  Shri  B.  S.  Bhatnagar,Managing  Director  of the above company,  seeks  to  obtainappropriate  writs  from  this Court mainly  in	 respect  oforders which have been passed by the Sea Customs Authoritiesagainst	 the  petitioner.  The petitioner seems	 to  feel  agrievance704that, in the matter of licences which had been issued to himfor  importing	'soda  ash,  he	 has  not  received  a	fairtreatment  from the appropriate authorities and,  since	 theimpugned  orders  were passed, he has been moving  the	HighCourt  of Punjab and this Court by several  petitions  underthe Constitution.  The present petitions show obvious tracesof unskilled draftsmanship.  They are extremely diffused andin  many  places  incoherent.  Statements of  fact  are	 notlogically  or  chronologically made and	 there	is  completeconfusion  in the narration of the story giving rise to	 thepetitioner's claim.  In several places, the petitions  referto facts which are both irrelevant and immaterial and, oftenenough, the petitioner is unable to restrain him. self	frommaking	unjustified and irrelevant suggestions	against	 theauthorities.  Even in regard to the claim ultimately made bythe  petitioner,  it is not easy to find  what	exactly	 thepetitioner's grievance is and what particular writ he  seeksto  obtain  from this Court.  However, since  the  petitionspurport	  to   invoke  the  jurisdiction   of	this   Courtsubstantially  under  Art.  32 of the  Constitution,  it  isnecessary  to deal with the relevant points in disposing  ofthese petitions.Three of the petitions have been argued by Shri Bhatnagar inperson.	 They are Petitions Nos. 423 and 164 of 1956 and No.377  of	 1955.	Petitions Nos. 42 and 46 of 1956  have	beenargued	by  Shri Umrigar on behalf of the  petitioner.	 Thematerial facts which it is essential to mention are very fewand they i.e within a very narrow compass.  It appears	thatthe petitioner obtained a licence for the import of soda ashonly  worth  about Rs. 50,00,000 during the  free  licensingperiod	in 1952.  In pursuance of this licence, and  relyingon  the same, consignments of soda ash to the extent of	 100tons,  200  tons and 20 tons respectively were	received  atBombay;	 but meanwhile the Customs Authorities had  receivedinformation  that,  though  the petitioner  had	 obtained  alicence	 in his name for the import of soda ash for  such  alarge  amount as Rs. 50,00,000, his capital did	 not  exceedRs.  15,000  and that he was in fact  trafficking  in  theselicences.  On receiving this report, investigation was	madeand705subsequently the matter was left  in charge  of 'the SpecialPolice	 Establishment.	   During   the	  course   of	thisinvestigation,	certain	 documents  were  seized  from	 thepetitioner-company's  office as well as from the  office  ofone Messrs N. Jivanlal & Co. at Bombay.	 The complaint	madeagainst	 the petitioner that he was trafficking in  licenceswas  confirmed by this investigation.  It transpired that  aperson	carrying  on  business in the name  of	Messrs.	  N.Jivanlal & Co., had a free hand in dealing with the licencesof  the	 petitioner  and that the petitioner  used  only  toreceive	 commission  for the imports that he allowed  to  bemade in the name of Messrs Bhatnagars & Co., Ltd.  In regardto the two consignments of 100 tons and 20 tons of soda 'ashrespectively, it was found on an inspection of the documentsthat the same had been imported by Messrs N. Jivanlal & Co.,and  since  Messrs N. Jivanlal & Co., held no  licence,	 theconsignments  were seized by the Collector of Customs.	 Theoffices of the petitioner and Messrs N. Jivanlal & Co., wereraided	during the course of this investigation on  November7,1952	and  February  6,  1953,  respectively.	  The  goodsarrived	 in  Bombay in March and April 1953  and  they	wereconfiscated  by	 the Collector of Customs in  May  and	June1953.	Subsequently, the documents including  the  licenceswhich had been seized were returned to the petitioner.	 Theconfiscation  of the goods was challenged by the  petitionerby  preferring	an appeal to the Central Board	of  Revenue.The  said  appeal was, however, dismissed.   The  petitionerthen moved the Central Government against this, order but onSeptember  22,	1955,  the  Central  Government	 refused  tointerfere.  It appears that on March 31, 1956, the Collectorof Customs ordered that the goods should be auctioned.	Whenthis  order  was  passed, the petitioner filed	one  of	 thepetitions before us. - He obtained an interim order of	staybut the said order was ultimately vacated.  Broadly  stated,these  are  the	 facts	which  give  rise  to  the   presentpetitions.Though five petitions have been presented by the petitioner,his  grievance substantially is against the confiscation  ofthe consignments of soda ash and706against	 the  seizure of his licences by  the  investigatingauthorities: Each petition seeks to put the grievance of thepetitioner  in	a  different form and,	though	the  prayersultimately  made  are also not of the same pattern,  in	 themain,  the  petitioner wants this Court to give	 him  reliefagainst what he regards as illegal seizure of the goods	 andagainst the virtual invalidation of his licences for import.The  period during which the licences granted to  him  couldhave  been operated upon has expired and the petitioner,  inone of his petitions, seeks an order from this Court direct-ing the Government to revalidate the licences so as to allowthe petitioner to import the article in question during	 theunexpired period of his licences.Though	it  would  have been possible  to  deal	 with  thesepetitions collectively by delivering a, common judgment,  wewould prefer to deal with the matter separately and considerthe points raised in each petition by itself.Petition  No. 423 of 1956 in a sense stands apart  from	 theother  petitions in the present group.	The facts  which  wehave already mentioned are enumerated by the petitioner evenin this petition but the ,substantial relief which he  seeksto  claim and which the petitioner pressed before us in	 hisargument is in respect of his allegation that the -Union  ofIndia  and other respondents to the petition have  acted  incontempt  of  this  Court  and	appropriate  action  should,therefore,  be	taken by us against  the  said	respondents.This contention arises in this way.  The petitioner had madea  similar  petition  to this Court, No.  571  of  1954,  inrespect of one of the three consignments, in question.	Thispetition had come before this Court for hearing on March 24,1955.	Shri  K. R. Chaudhury appeared	for  the  petitionerbefore	this  Court.  The order passed by this	Court  wouldshow  that  the learned Solicitor-General of  India  made  astatement  to the Court indicating that the goods which	 hadbeen  confiscated by the Customs Authorities would  not	 be,sold  or otherwise dealt with for a month from the  date  ofthe communication to the petitioner of the final order	thatthe Central Government may pass in the revisional petition707preferred by him before them.  Acting on this under. taking,this Court allowed the petitioner a period of one month fromthe  date  of the communication to him of  the	final  orderwhich  the Central Government might pass on  his  revisionalpetition to enable him to file a petition for Special  Leaveto appeal if he was so advised.	 Then the order recorded theundertaking given by the Solicitor-General.  Subject to thisorder  the  petition was dismissed.  However, no  order	 waspassed	as to costs.  It is common ground that	for  severalmonths	thereafter the revisional petition preferred by	 thepetitioner  to the Central Government was not  disposed	 of.Ultimately  it	was dismissed.	The petitioner seems  to  beunder  the impression that the Solicitor-General, on  behalfof the Central Government, had given an undertaking that thepetitioner's revisional petition would be disposed of withina  certain  specified time.  Indeed the	 petition  seeks  tosuggest	 that  the  undertaking	 was  that  the	  revisionalpetition would be dispose immediately in a day or two,	and,since the revisional petition was not disposed of within thetime mentioned by the Solicitor-General, the petitioner saysthat  all  the respondents are guilty of  contempt.   It  isclear  that the petitioners grievance and the prayer  for  a-writ are entirely misconceived.  The petitioner is entirelyin error in assuming that, on behalf of the Union of  India,any undertaking was given that his revisional petition wouldbe disposed of within a day or two.  Indeed, the  Solicitor-General	  fairly  told	us  that,  at  the  time  when	 thepetitioner's  earlier  application was disposed of,  he	 hadexpressed the hope that the petitioner's revisional petitionwould  be dealt with by the Central Government at  an  earlydate; but the expression of this hope had nothing to do withthe  undertaking which the Solicitor-General gave and  whichwas   included	in  the	 Court's  order.    The	  petitionerpresumably  thinks that the Court's order required that	 hisrevisional  petition  should be disposed of by	the  CentralGovernment  within  a month.  This  assumption	is  entirelyunwarranted.  The period of one month which is mentioned  inthe  order was the period granted to the petitioner to	move91708this  Court  for  Special Leave after the  decision  of	 hisrevisional   petition	by  the	  Central   Government	 wascommunicated to him.  In other words, if the decision of theCentral	 Government  had gone against  the  petitioner,	 thepetitioner was given one month's period within which to movethis  Court for Special Leave and the Union of India  agreednot  to deal with the property of the petitioner or  disposeof  it	during that period.  In our opinion,  the  order  isplain  and  unambiguous and there is no scope for  any	mis-understanding  whatever.   If no undertaking  was  given  asassumed	 by the petitioner, it is impossible  to  understandhow   any  contempt  can  arise	 on  the  ground  that	 theundertaking  had  not  been  complied  with.   Besides,	 thepetitioner  has	 not stopped to consider  which	 person	 theUnion  of  India  represents  as Respondent  No.  1  in	 hispetition.  He has also not paused to consider how the  otherrespondents  could  be	guilty	of  contempt.	We  have  nohesitation in holding that the prayer for a writ in  respectof  the	 alleged  contempt made by the	petitioner  in	thispetition  is thoroughly unjustified and, we regret  to	add,wholly	irresponsible.	This was the only point,  which	 thepetitioner urged before us in this petition.  The result  isthe petition fails and it must be dismissed with costs.In  Petition  No.  164 of 1956, so far as we  were  able  togather, the petitioner's grievance is in respect of a policystatement  made	 by the Government in the Press	 Note  datedFebruary 3, 1955 and Public Notice No. 25-ITC (PN)/ 56 datedJune  30, 1956.	 The petitioner's contention appears  to  bethat the policy enunciated in these two documents amounts toa  monopoly  and he wants this Court  to  issue	 appropriatewrits  terminating  this  monopoly  and	 to  ensure  to	 thepetitioner  his fundamental right of carrying on  his  tradeand  business.	 In  our  opinion,  this  petition  is	alsoentirely  misconceived	and  there is no  substance  in	 thecontention raised by the petitioner.  It is hardly necessaryto  emphasize that, in modern times, the export	 and  importpolicy of any democratic State is bound to be flexible.	 Theneeds of the country, the position of foreign exchange,	 theneed to protect national industries709and all other relevant considerations have to be examined bythe Central Government from time to time and rules in regardto   export  and  import  suitably  adjusted.	 It   would,therefore,   be	 idle  to  suggest  that  there	 should	  beunfettered and unrestricted freedom of export and import  orthat  the policy of the Government in regard to	 export	 andimport	should	be fixed and not changed  according  to	 therequirements  of  the country.	It is in the light  of	thisposition that the policy statement in the Press Note has  tobe  considered.	 The Press Note covers several	commodities,but,  since  we	 are concerned with Light soda	ash  in	 thepresent case, it would be relevant to refer briefly to the -contents of the Press Note in regard to Light soda ash.	  Inregard to this commodity, Government have decided, says	 thePress  Note,  that the import should  be  canalised  throughimporter-stockiats  who	 would be required  to	keep  bufferstocks	and  effect  sale in a manner  so  as  to  eliminatefluctuations in prices and supplies experienced by consumersin  the recent past.  The Government realized that,  withoutcanalisation  of distribution of this  commodity,  consumerswere  always  at  the  mercy  of  the  importers  and	evendistribution  of the commodity to all parts of	the  countrywhere  it was needed was also difficult to obtain.  That  iswhy  the Government decided to canalise the distribution  ofthis.	commodity  with	 the  assistance  of   two   sellingorganisations  of  Messrs.   Tata Oil Mills  Co.  Ltd.,	 andMessrs.	 I.C.I. (India) Ltd.  These two concerns had  agreedto procure soda ash from suppliers selected on the basis  ofoffers	which were being invited by means of  public  noticewhich  was issued on the same day as the Press	Note.	Thenthe Press Note concludes that soda ash so imported would  bestocked	 at convenient centres and sold in  accordance	withthe general directions that may be issued by the  Governmentfrom  time  to time.  The sale price would be fixed  by	 theGovernment  on fo.r. Port basis and  the  importer-stockistswould be paid remuneration for their services at the rate of12  1/2% of the landed cost, additional profit, if  any,  onthe  transaction being made over to Government.	 The  PublicNotice710which  was  issued about the same time	gives  the  relevantparticulars  in regard to the import of soda ash  and  othercommodities.   Tenders were invited and cl. 4 of the  PublicNotice	shows that the offerer whose offer was	accepted  bythe  Chief Controller of Imports would be required to  enterinto  'a contract of sale within ten days of the  acceptanceof  the offer with the importer-distributor selected by	 theGovernment  in that behalf, No doubt discretion was left  tothe Chief Controller of Imports to reject any offer  withoutassigning  any reason.	Subject to the terms and  conditionsset  out  in  the Notice, if a contract	 was  concluded,  animport	licence for the quantity contracted to be  purchasedwould  be  issued  in favour of the buyer  subject  to	suchconditions as might be imposed by the Government of India inthat behalf.It appears that, prior to 1953, import licences were  freelygranted.    In	1953,  licences	 began	to  be	granted	  toestablished  importers	subject to certain  conditions.	  Italso  appears that Government decided from time to time	 thetotal  quantity of the specified commodity which  should  beimported.  Then the extent of the business of the  applicantfor  licences  during the prescribed period was	 taken	intoaccount and the total amount of import was then	 distributedpro rata amongst the several applicants.  When it was  foundthat  even  this  method did not  work	satisfactorily,	 theGovernment  decided  to	 canalise  distribution	 but   whilecanalisation  was  introduced in this manner,  tenders	wereinvited	 for  import licences and they	were  considered  onmerits and licences granted to several claimants.  It may bethat,  if the I.C.I. and the Tata Oil Mills Co.	 Ltd.,	wereamongst	 the applicants for licences, their  competitors  inthe line may have found it difficult to fight with these twopowerful rivals but that is very different from saying that,by the method of canalisation, the Government had introduceda  monopoly in the import of the commodity in question.	  Itis  also important to emphasize that the petitioner  is	 noteven  an  established importer.	 He was	 granted  a  licenceduring the free period, and so it is difficult to understandhis grievance that a monopoly had been711created and that -he was thereby deprived of his fundamentalright  to  carry on his trade.. Government  found  that	 theimporters  of soda ash resorted to malpractices	 leading  tospeculation,  and  violent fluctuations, in  prices  of	 thecommodity.   It	 was  open to  the  Government,	 and  indeednational  interests  made it their duty,  to  intervene	 andregulate  the  distribution of the commodity in	 a  suitablemanner.	 That is all that Government purported to do by	 thepolicy	statement to which objection has been taken  by	 thepetitioner.   Besides,	it  is difficult  to  entertain	 theargument  from	the  present  petitioner  that	the  allegedmonopoly  has  affected	 his right to carry  on	 trade.	  Insubstance no monopoly has been created and the	petitioner'sapplication  is	 entirely misconceived.	 The result  is	 thepetition fails and must be dismissed with costs.Petition No. 377 of 1955 is directed broadly against  ordersof confiscation and sale passed by the relevant	 authoritiesand the petitioner claims that an appropriate writ should beissued	by this Court calling upon the said  authorities  toforbear	 from  giving effect to the said  orders.   We	havealready	 mentioned  the	 material facts	 in  regard  to	 theconfiscation of the consignments of soda ash of 100 tons and20  tons  respectively	which has given rise  to  all  theseproceedings.   Now,  the order dated May 3, 1954,  has	beenpassed	by the Controller of Imports and Exports  for  ChiefController of Imports and Exports and it communicates to thepetitioner  the	 decision of the Chief	Controller  that  nolicence or customs clearance permit would be granted to	 himagainst	 his application for and upto the  licensing  periodJuly  1953.   The  petitioner was, however,  told  that	 hisapplications for January-June 1954 licensing period would bedealt  with  in the normal course according  to	 the  policycontained in the Red Book.  Then the order adds that it	 hadbeen decided that re-validation of the licences mentioned inAnnexure 'A' to the petitioner's advocate's letter on  April20,  1954,  could  not be allowed.  That  is  why  the	saidlicences were returned to the petitioner.  It is this latterpart  of the order by which the petitioner  feels  aggrievedand against which the petitioner seeks remedy by the7l2present	 petition.  The petitioner's case is that, since  hewas  granted licences which were to be alive for  one'	yearfrom  February 13, 1952, the illegal seizure of the  licenceand  the  unauthorised confiscation of the  consignments  inquestion caused considerable. prejudice to him.	 The  returnof  the	 licences  is poor consolation	to  the	 petitioner.because the period during which the licences were to operatehad  already  expired.	 He,  therefore,  claims  that	 thelicences should be revalidated in the sense that the  periodduring	which he can operate upon those licences  should  besuitably  extended.   It  is  true  that  if  the   relevantauthorities were inclined to revalidate the licences in thatsense, it would have been open to them to do so.  But it  isdifficult  to understand now the petitioner can	 invoke	 thejurisdiction of this Court under Art. 32 of the Constitutionfor  obtaining	this relief.  We do not propose	 to  discussthis  matter  elaborately  because,  in	 our  opinion,	 theposition  in law is abundantly clear.  The authorities	havefound  that,  though  the  licences  were  obtained  by	 thepetitioner  in	his name, he has been,trafficking  in  theselicences, that the, consignments had been ordered by anotherindividual  Messrs.   N.  Jivanlal  &  Co.,  that  the	saidindividual  holds no licence for import of soda ash  and  assuch  the consignments received by the said  individual	 areliable to be confiscated.  If the petitioner's grievance  isthat  the view taken by the appropriate authorities in	thismatter	is  erroneous,	that is not a matter  which  can  belegitimately agitated before us in ,a petitition under	Art.32.   It  may perhaps be, as the  learned  Solicitor-Generalsuggested, that the petitioner may have a remedy by suit fordamages	 but  that  is	a  matter  with	 which	we  are	 notconcerned.  If the goods have been seized in accordance withlaw  and they have been seized as a result of  the  findingsrecorded  by  the  relevant authorities	 competent  to	holdenquiry	 under	the Sea Customs Act, it is not open  to	 thepetitioner to contend that we should ask the authorities  toexercise  discretion in favour of the petitioner  and  allowhis  licences  a  further lease of  life.   Essentially	 thepetitioner's  grievance is against the conclusions  of	factreached by the relevant authorities.  If the said713conclusions  cannot be challenged before us in	the  presentwrit  petition,	 the  petitioner  would	 obviously  not	  beentitled  to any relief of the kind claimed by him.  In	 theresult, the petition fails and must be dismissed with costs.That  leaves  two more petitions filed	by  the	 petitioner,Petitions  Nos. 42 of 1956 and 46 of 1956.  These  petitionshave been argued before us by Shri Umrigar and, on behalf ofthe petitioner, Shri Umrigar has raised three points  beforeus.  He contends that the Import-Export, Act does not  applyto  soda ash and that it is every citizen's right to  importand export this commodity without a licence.  If that be thetrue position, confiscation of the two consignments would beillegal,  and  so, he wants an appropriate  writ  from	thisCourt  against the Central Government.	In the	alternative,he argues that the legislation which authorises the issue oflicences amounts to a delegated legislation and -as such' isinvalid.   Again, if legislation is invalid on	the  ground'alleged,  confiscation	of  the two  consignments  would  beinvalid	 and  the petitioner would be entitled	to  a  writ.Failing these two contentions, Shri Umrigar argues that	 theconclusion  of the relevant authorities that his client	 wastrafficking  in licences is based on 'no legal evidence	 andmust,  therefore, be reversed by this Court and	 appropriaterelief	given  to him on the basis that the  petitioner	 hadobtained licences bona fide for his own personal use and thecontrary  view	taken by the relevant  authorities  and	 thesubsequent confiscation of the consignments were illegal andultra  vires.	We would now briefly deal with	these  threepoints	in the order in which they were urged before  us  byShri Umrigar.The  first  argument  is based upon  the  fact	that,  whileenacting  The Imports and Exports (Control) Act,  1947,	 ActNo. XVIII of 1947, the provisions contained in r. 84 (2)  ofthe Defence of India Rules have not been included in the Actand  the contention, which at best may be  characterised  asingenious,   is	 that  the  object  of	omitting  the	saidprovisions while enacting the subsequent Act of 1947 was  torelease,  from	the operation of the  Import  Act,  articleswhich would have fallen714under the said omitted provisions.  R. 84 of the Defence  ofIndia  Rules  by sub-r. (1) defines export  and	 import.   'Import	" means bringing into British India by sea, land  orair.  " Export " -means taking out of British India by	sea,land or air.  Then sub-s. (2) provides:" The Central Government may by a notified order prohibit orrestrict  the import or export of all goods or goods of	 anyspecified  description, from or to any specified  person  orclass of personsSub-r. (3) then provides:"  The	Central	 Government  may  by  notified	order	makeprovision   for	  prohibiting,	restricting   or   otherwisecontrolling, in all cases or in specified classes of  cases,and subject to such exceptions, if any, as may be made by orunder the order,-(i)  the import, export, carriage coastwise or	shipment  asships'	stores	of  all	 goods or  goods  of  any  specifieddescription;(ii)the shipment of fresh water on seagoing vessels ;(iii)the bringing into any port or place in British India ofgoods of any specified description intended to be taken	 outof  British  India without being removed from  the  ship  orconveyance in which they are being carried."Shri  Umrigar  contends that the import 'of soda  ash  couldhave been legitimately regulated under the provisions of  r.84, sub-r. (2) but since this sub-rule has not been  enactedunder Act XVIII of 1947, all regulations made by the CentralGovernment  and terms and conditions laid down in regard  tothe  granting of licences are ultra vires of the  Act.	 ActXVIII  of 1947 gives substantially the same meaning  to	 thewords  " export " and " import "' and the operative  portionof the Act is contained in s. 3 which is the same as r.	 84,sub-r. (3), of the Defence of India Rules.  In order to makehis  argument  plausible, Shri Umrigar seeks to put  a	verynarrow,	 artificial and unreasonable restriction upon s.  3,sub-s.	(1) (a) of Act XVIII of 1947.  Before  dealing	withthis  argument, however, it would be convenient to  set	 outthe said section as under:715" 3. Powers to prohibit or restrict imports and exports :(1)The	Central	 Government may, by order published  in	 theofficial   Gazette,   make   provision	 for	prohibiting.restricting  or	 otherwise controlling, in all cases  or  inspecified classes of cases, and subject to such	 exceptions,if any, as may be made by or under the order,-(a)the	import,	 export, carriage coastwise or	shipment  asships' stores of goods of any specified description ;(b)the bringing into any port or place in India of goods  ofany specified description intended to be taken out of  Indiawithout	 being removed from the ship or conveyance in  whichthey are being carried.(2)  All goods to which any order under sub-section(1)  applies shall be deemed to be goods of which the importor export has been prohibited or restricted under section 19of  the	 Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878), and  all	 theprovisions of that Act shall have effect accordingly, exceptthat  section  183 thereof shall have effect as if  for	 theword "shall" therein the word "may" were substituted.(3)  Notwithstanding  anything	contained in  the  aforesaidAct, the Central Government may, by order, published in	 theofficial Gazette, prohibit, restrict or impose conditions onthe clearance, whether for home consumption or for  shipmentabroad, of any goods or class of goods imported into India."Shri Umrigar contends that s. 3 (1) (a) cannot apply to	 theimport	of soda ash, because, according to him, it  is	onlygoods  of  a  specified description which  are	imported  orexported, carried coastwise or shipped as ships' stores thatfall  within the mischief of the said provision.   In  otherwords,	he reads the expression " carriage coastwise  "	 and",shipment  as	ships' stores " as  constituting  adjectivalclauses	 governing the words "import" and "export".  In	 ouropinion,  such	a construetion is wholly  unreasonable.	  Wehave   no  doubt  that	this  provision	 has  to   be	readdisjunctively  and distributively, and so read, the  import.of goods of any specified descrip-92716tion  would attract the application of the  said  provision.If we bear in mind the definition of the words "import"	 and"  export  ",  it would be obvious that	 articles  that	 arecarried coastwise would never fall within the cate. gory  ofeither	 import	  or  export.	The  assumption	  that	 theLegislature,  wanted to release all kinds of goods from	 theapplication  of	 s.  3	(1)  (a)  is,  in  our	opinion,  socompletely inconsistent with, the plain and natural  meaningof  the	 material  clause  that we  have  no  hesitation  inrejecting Shri Umrigar's argument.  If the words used in theclause are given their natural meaning, it is clear that theLegislature  must have felt, in enacting this Act,  that  itwas unnecessary to continue by reenactment the provisions ofr. 84(2) in the present Act.  What was specifically providedin the said rule is in effect included in s. 3 (1) (a).	  Wemust, therefore, hold that the argument that no licence	 wasrequired  for the import of soda ash and so all	 the  orderspassed	by  the	 appropriate authorities in  regard  to	 theconfiscation of the consignments are invalid must fail.The  next argument is that the material provision  is  ultravires as it amounts to delegated legislation.  The challengeto  the validity of legislative enactments on the ground  ofdelegated legislation often enough -presents problems  whichare  not easy of solution.  The recent history	of  judicialdecisions, however, shows that, though there is considerabledivergence  of	opinion in the approach to the	question  ofdealing	 with such a challenge, some principles may be	saidto  be	fairly	well  settled.	 There	is  no	doubt	thatlegislation  which is conditional, properly so-called,	mustbe distinguished from legislation which is delegated.	ShriUmrigar	 concedes  that where the Legislature  provides	 andlays  down principles underlying the provisions of a  parti-cular	statute	  and	also  affords	guidance   for	 theimplementation or enforcement of the said principles, it  isopen  to the Legislature to leave the actual  implementationor  enforcement to its chosen delegate.	 The time  when	 theprovision should be implemented, the period during which  itshould	be  implemented	 or the place  where  it  should  beapplied can, according to717him, in appropriate oases be validly left by the Legislatureto  its	 delegate.   He,  however,  contends  that,  in	 theimpugned  Act, the Legislature does not lay  down  principleand  gives  no guidance to the delegate	 while	leaving	 theimplementation	of  the	 statutory  provisions	to  him	 andconsequently  the  validity  of	 the  legislative  enactmentsuffers	 from  a serious infirmity on the  ground  that	 theLegislature has surrendered its legislative power in  favourof  its	 delegate.  In dealing with this  narrow  ground  ofchallenge,  it would be necessary to consider  the  preambleand  the material provisions of the Act to find out  whetherquestions  of  policy  have  been  clearly  decided  by	 theLegislature  -and  whether guidance has been  given  to	 thedelegate in the matter of implementing the provisions of thestatute.   Unfortunately for Shri Umrigar his  challenge  tothe  validity of the impugned section under the Imports	 andExports	 Act is completely covered by the decision  of	thisCourt	in  Harishankar	 Bagla	v.  The	 State	 of   MadhyaPradesh(1).   In  this case, so. -3 and 4 of  the  EssentialSupplies  (Temporary  Powers) Act, 1946,  were	attacked  asultra  vires on the ground of delegated	 legislation.	Thischallenge  was	repelled.   In	repelling  the	argument  ofdelegated  legislation, Mahajan Chief Justice who  deliveredthe  judgment of the Court conceded that "  the	 Legislaturemust declare the policy of the law and the legal  principleswhich  are  to control any given cases and  must  provide  astandard  to  guide the officials or the body  in  power  toexecute	 the law".  "The essential legislative	function  ",the   judgment	 proceeds  to  add,  "	 consists   in	 thedetermination  or  choice of the legislative policy  and  offormally enacting that policy into a binding rule of conduct". Then the learned Chief Justice referred to the fact	thatthe  Legislature  has laid down such a	principle  and	thatprinciple  is  the  maintenance or  increase  in  supply  ofessential commodities and of securing equitable distributionand  availability  at  fair prices.  It was  held  that	 theprinciple  was clear and it offered sufficient	guidance  tothe Central Government in exercising its powers under s.  3.In other words, in considering the question as to(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380.718whether guidance was afforded to the delegate in bring.	 inginto operation the material provisions of the Act by  layingdown  principles  in that behalf, the Court  considered	 thestatement of the principles contained in the preamble to theAct  as well as in the material provisions of s.  3  itself.This  decision shows that if we can find a reasonably  clearstatement  of  policy underlying the provisions of  the	 Acteither in the provisions of the Act or in the preamble, thenany  part  of the Act cannot be attacked on  the  ground  ofdelegated legislation by suggesting that Questions of policyhave  been  left to the delegate.  Turning to  the  impugnedsections  of  the present Act, it is necessary	to  rememberthat  the  present Act purports to continue  for  a  limitedperiod	powers	to prohibit or control imports	and  exportswhich  had already been enacted by the Defence of India	 Actand  the Rules framed thereunder.  In other words, this	 Actdoes  not purport to enact the material provisions  for	 thefirst  time  but  it purports  to  continue  the  previouslyexisting  provisions  in  that behalf and  so  it  would  belegitimate  to consider the preamble of the predecessor	 Actand  relevant  provisions  in it to  find  out	whether	 theLegislature has laid down clearly the policy underlying thatAct and has enunciated principles for the guidance of  thoseto  whom authority to implement the Act has been  delegated.The  preamble to the present Act says that it was  expedientto  continue  for  a  limited  period  powers  to  prohibit,restrict  or  otherwise control imports	 and  exports.	 Thepreamble to the Defence of India Act refers to the emergencywhich  had arisen when the Act was passed and refer;,  interalia,  to the necessity to take special measures  to  ensurethe  public  safety and public interest.  Section 2  of	 thesaid  Act  further  provides  that  the	 Central  Governmentthought	 that it was essential to secure public	 safety	 andmaintenance  of public order and, what is more relevant	 andmaterial, the maintenance of supplies and services essentialto  the	 life of the community.	 Thus it is clear  that	 thebroad  and main principle underlying the present  Act,	likeits  predecessor, was to maintain supplies essential to	 thelife of the community.	Thus, if the preamble719and the relevant section of the earlier Act are read in	 thelight  of  the	preamble of the present	 Act,  it  would  bedifficult  to  distinguish  this  Act  from  the   EssentialSupplies  Act  with  which  this  Court	 was  concerned	  inHarishankar  Bagla's case Incidentally, we may also  observethat  in Pannalal Binjraj v. The Union of India	 (2),  wherethe vires of. a. 5 (7-A) of the Income.	 Tax Act were put inissue  before  this Court, the challenge was  repelled	and,during the-course of the judgment delivered on December	 21,1956,  the previous history of the earlier  Income-Tax	Actswas  taken into account to decide what policy could be	saidto underlie the provisions of the impugned section.The last argument of Shri Umrigar is patently untenable.  Nodoubt  Shri Umrigar began this argument by  contending	thatthe  finding  made  against  the  petitioner  that  he	 wastrafficking  in	 his licences and that the  consignments  inquestion  did  not  really belong to him  was  based  on  noevidence but ultimately he could not help conceding the factthat   there  were  certain  circumstances  on	 which	 theappropriate authorities relied against the petitioner.	 Thecontention  that a finding made by a competent authority  isbased  on  no  legal  evidence is  easy	 to  make  but	verydifficult to establish.	 Such a contention can succeed	onlywhen  it is shown that there is really no legal evidence  insupport	 of the view taken by the  appropriate	authorities.In  the	 present  case, it is impossible to  accede  to	 theassumption  that  there	 is no legal  evidence	against	 thepetitioner.   His poor financial resources, his	 conduct  atall  material  times  when consignments	 were  ordered,	 thesuspicions  attaching  to  the very existence  of  the	firmMessrs.	 N. Jivanlal & Co. in Bombay and the prominent	partplayed	by  this firm at all stages of	the  transaction  inregard	 to  the  consignments	as  well  as  the   recklessallegations  which  were made by the petitioner	 before	 theauthorities which were found to be untrue by the appropriateauthorities,   cannot  be  summarily  dismissed	  as   beingirrelevant  or as not constituting legal evidence.   At	 thehighest it may be said that there(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380.(2) [1957] S.C.R. 233.720are  some circumstances on which Shri Umrigar wants to	relyin favour of the bonafides of his client whereas there is. alarge  number  of  circumstances against him.	If  all	 theappropriate authorities, on considering these circumstances,concurrently found against the petitioner, that obviously isnot  a	matter	which can be legitimately  agitated  in	 thepresent	 petition.   That is why we do not propose  to	dealwith this aspect of the matter any further.  In the  result,both Petitions Nos. 42 of 1956 and 46 of 1956 fail and	mustbe dismissed with costs.Petitions dismissed.721