PETITIONER:S.   A. VENKATARAMAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/12/1957BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1958 AIR  107		  1958 SCR 1040ACT:    Criminal   trial-Public  servant  accused  of   criminalmisconduct-Dismissal   from   service	before	 taking	  ofcognizance  by	Court-Sanction to Prosecute,  if  necessary-Interpretation-Prevention  of  Corruption Act, 1947  (II  Of1947), ss. 5(2), 6.HEADNOTE:The  appellant who was a public servant was  dismissed	fromservice	 after	departmental  inquiry.	 Thereafter  he	 wascharged	 with  having  committed  the  offence	of  criminalmisconduct under S. 5(2), Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947and  was convicted.  No sanction under s. 6 of the  Act	 wasproduced, before the trial Court.  It was contended that theCourt could not take cognizance of the offence without therebeing a proper sanction to prosecute :Held,  that no sanction under s. 6 of the Act was  necessaryfor the prosecution of the appellant as he was not a  publicservant	 at  the  time of the taking of	 cognizance  of	 theoffence.In  construing the provisions of a statute it  is  essentialfor  a Court, in the first instance, to give effect  to	 thenatural	 meaning of the words used therein, if	those  wordsare  clear enough.  It is only in the case of any  ambiguitythat  a Court is entitled to ascertain the intention of	 thelegislature.  Where a general power to take cognizance of anoffence	 is  vested  in	 a Court,  any	prohibition  to	 theexercise  of  that power, by any provision of law,  must  beconfined  to the terms of the prohibition.  The words in  s.6(1)  of the Act are clear enough and must be  given  effectto.  The more important words in cl. (c) of s. 6(1) are " ofthe  authority competent to remove him from his office ".  Apublic servant who has ceased to be a public servant is	 nota  person removable from any office by competent  authority.The  conclusion	 is inevitable that at the time a  Court  isasked to take cognizance not only must the offence have beencommitted  by a public servant but the person  accused	muststill  be  a public servant removable from his office  by  acompetent authority before the provisions of s. 6 can apply.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 130  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMay  12, 1955, of the Punjab High Court in  Criminal  AppealNo.  52-D  of 1954, arising out of the	judgment  and  orderdated December 6, 1954, of the Court of the Special Judge atDelhi in Corruption Case No. 1 of 1954.1038N.   C.	 Chatterjee and C. V. L. Narayan, for the  appellantin Cr.	A. No. 130 of 56.Jai Gopal Sethi and Naunit Lal, for the appellant in Cr.  A.No. 25 of 56.C.K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, A.M.	 Chatterjee,H.  R. Khanna and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent  in	boththe appeals.1957.	December 3. The following Judgment of the Court	 wasdelivered byIMAM  J.-A  question  of law, common' to  these	 appeals  byspecial leave, requires determination; hence they were heardtogether.  Special leave in Criminal Appeal No. 130 of	1956was  limited  to the question whether the  trial  court	 hadjurisdiction  to take cognizance of the offence for want  ofsanction  under	 s. 6 of the Prevention of  Corruption	Act,1947  (11  of  1947), hereinafter referred to  as  the	Act.Criminal  Appeal  No.  25 of 1956 was  not  so	limited	 andadditional  points  were raised for  our  consideration,  towhich	reference   will  be  made  when  that	 appeal	  isspecifically dealt with.The  question  of  law, common in  both	 these	appeals,  iswhether there was any necessity for a sanction under s. 6 ofthe  Act before a court could take cognizance of an  offenceunder s. 161 of the Indian Penal Code or s. 5(2) of the	 Actor  both, alleged to have been committed by a person who  atthe  time the court was asked to take cognizance was  not  apublic	servant but was so at the time of the commission  ofthe offence.In  Criminal  Appeal  No. 130 of  1956,	 the  appellant	 wasconvicted  under  s. 5(2) of the Act and  sentenced  to	 sixmonths' simple imprisonment by the Special Judge, Delhi.  Heappealed  against his conviction and sentence to the  PunjabHigh  Court.  That Court while admitting the  appeal  issuednotice	upon  the appellant to show cause why  his  sentenceshould not be enhanced.	 The High Court ultimately dismissedhis  appeal  and  enhanced  the	 sentence  of  six   months'imprisonment  to  two years' rigorous imprisonment.   As  inthis appeal special leave has been granted limited1039to the question already stated, it is unnecessary to setout the prosecution case against the appellant.In Criminal Appeal No. 25 of 1956 the appellant had  appliedto  the	 Allahabad High Court under s. 561A of the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  for  the quashing	of  the	 proceedingspending	  against  him	before	the  Special   Judge.	 Theapplication   was  dismissed.	It  is	against	 the   orderdismissing  his application that this appeal has been  filedby the appellant.It is admitted that at the time the Special Judges concernedpurported to take cognizance the appellants were not  publicservants and that no order of sanction under s. 6 of the Actby  a  competent authority was on the record.  At  the	timethat  the  appellants  are alleged  to	have  committed	 theoffence they were public servants.Section 6 of the Act states:"6.   Previous	sanction necessary for	prosecution  (1)  Nocourt  shall take cognizance of an offence punishable  undersection	 161  or section 164 or section 165  of	 the  IndianPenal  Code  (Act 45 of 1860), or under sub-section  (2)  ofsection	 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by  apublic servant, except with the previous sanction,(a)in  the  case of a person who is employed  in  connectionwith the affairs of the Union and is not removable from	 hisoffice	save  by  or  with  the	 sanction  of  the   CentralGovernment, of the Central Government,(b)in  the  case of a person who is employed  in  connectionwith  the affairs of a State and is not removable  from	 hisoffice save by or with the sanction of the State Government,of the State Government,(c)in  the  case  of  any other	 person,  of  the  authoritycompetent to remove him from his office.(2)Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises  whetherthe  previous  sanction as required  under  sub-section	 (1)should	be given by the Central or State Government  or	 anyother  authority,  such	 sanction shall	 be  given  by	thatGovernment or authority which1321040would have been competent to remove the public servant	fromhis office at the time when the offence was alleged to	havebeen committed."There  is  no  dispute	that if at the	time  when  a  courtpurports to take cognizance of offences punishable under  s.161,  164 or s. 165 of the Indian Penal Code or s.  5(2)  ofthe  Act committed by a public servant and that person is  apublic servant, cognizance cannot be taken by a court unlessa  sanction by the competent authority has  been  previouslyaccorded.  The real controversy in these appeals is  whethersuch  a	 sanction  is  required	 before	 a  court  can	takecognizance  in	the  case of a person who is  not  a  publicservant	 at the time the court is asked to take	 cognizance,although  the offence alleged against him was  committed  byhim as a public servant.  To determine this question s. 6 ofthe Act requires to be interpreted.In substance, it was urged on behalf of the appellants	thaton a proper interpretation of s. 6 of the Act the status  ofthe  accused  at the time of the commission of	the  offencealleged	 against him was the essence of the matter  and	 nothis  status  at	 the  time  the	 court	was  asked  to	takecognizance of the offence, in which case a sanction under s.6  of  the  Act	 was necessary before  a  court	 could	takecognizance although at that stage the accused had ceased  tobe a public servant.On the other band, the Solicitor-General contended that on aproper	interpretation of the provisions of s. 6 of the	 Actnot only an offence mentioned therein must be committed by apublic	servant	 but  that that person	is  still  a  publicservant	 removable from his office by a competent  authorityat  the	 time a court was asked to take	 cognizance  of	 theoffence.Before we proceed to construe the provisions of s. 6 of	 theAct it is necessary to refer to some of the submissions madeby the learned Counsel for the appellants.  It was said thatin  construing	the  provisions of a statute  a	 court	mustattempt to ascertain the intention of the legislature and itmust do this not only from the language of the statute,	 butalso from the1041consideration  of the social conditions which gave  rise  toit, and of the mischief which it was intended to remedy.  Itmust  supplement  the written word so as to give  force	 andlife to the intention of the legislature.  Reliance was alsoplaced	upon certain decisions construing the provisions  ofs.  197	 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.   Reference	 wasalso made to Art. 361 of the Constitution and s. 197A of theCode of Criminal Procedure in aid of the construction  whichthe  learned  Counsel contended for with  reference  to	 thewords used in s. 6 of the Act.In  construing the provisions of a statute it  is  essentialfor  a court, in the first instance, to give effect  to	 thenatural	 meaning of the words used therein, if	those  wordsare  clear enough.  It is only in the case of any  ambiguitythat  a court is entitled to ascertain the intention of	 thelegislature by construing the provisions of the statute as awhole  and taking into consideration other matters  and	 thecircumstances  which  led to the enactment of  the  statute.Observations of Denning L. J. as he then was, in the case ofSeaford Court Estates Ltd. v. Asher (1) were relied upon  byMr. Chatterjee.	 It is, however, clear that the observationsof  the	 learned  Judge	 were made  with  reference  to	 theprovision  of  a  statute which was  ambiguous.	  We  cannotconstrue the observations to mean that where the language ofa  statute was free from ambiguity a duty was cast upon	 thecourt  to do anything more than to give effect to the  wordsused.	Although  reference  was made to  Art.	361  of	 theConstitution  and s. 197A of the Code by Mr. Sethi,  we	 areunable to see how the words used therein assist us in  -con-struing the provisions of s. 6 of the Act.Reliance  was  placed on the decisions of  the	Nagpur	HighCourt  in the case of S. Y. Patil v. Vyankatswami (2  )	 andthe  decision of the Court of the Judicial  Commissioner  ofSind  in  the case of Suganchand v. Seth Naraindas  (3),  insupport	 of the submission that even if a person had  ceasedto be a public servant before the prosecution started,	sucha person was(1)(1949) 2 K. B. 481, 498.    (2) I. L. R. (1939) Nag. 419.(3)A. I. R. (1932) Sind.  I77.1042protected  by  the provisions of s. 197 of the	Code  and  asanction was necessary before a court could take cognizance.It  is true that so far as s. 197 of the Code  is  concernedthese  two decisions do lend support to the submission	madeby the learned Counsel for the appellants.  It is,  however,to  be noticed that the decision of the Nagpur	High  Court,which  was  of a single Judge, was overruled by	 a  DivisionBench  of  that	 Court in the case of The  State  v.  HifzulRahman	(1), where it was held that the person accused	mustbe a public servant at the time of the accusation and s. 197of the Code afforded no protection to a public servant if hehad  ceased to hold office.  In the case of  Prasad  ChandraBanerji v. Emperor(2), the Calcutta High Court held that theprotection  given by s. 197. of the Code applied only  to  aperson	who  is	 still	a public servant  at  the  time	 theprosecution is launched and does not extend to a person	 whois no longer a public servant at that time but was in officewhen the offence charged was alleged to have been committed.Accordingly,  no  sanction  under s. 197  of  the  Code	 wasnecessary  in order to prosecute a person who had ceased  tobe  a  public servant at the time of the  launching  of	 theprosecution.   A similar view was taken by the	Bombay	HighCourt in the case of Imperator v. Joshi (3), and by a singleJudge of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Emperor  v.Suraj Narain Chaube (4).  It would thus appear that the HighCourts of Calcutta, Bombay, Allababad and Nagpur are  agreedthat  s. 197 of the Code affords no protection to  a  personwho is not a public servant at the time he is accused of  anoffence before a court although at the time he committed theoffence he was a public servant.  The decision of the PunjabHigh Court in the case of The State v. Gurcharan Singh	(5),was  brought to our notice wherein it was held that in	viewof the form of wording in the two sections, namely s. 197 ofthe  Code  and a. 6 of the Act, the  same  principles  wouldapply  to  them,  having  regard to  the  decisions  of	 theCalcutta and Bombay High Courts and the protection  affordedby s. 197 of(1)I. L. R. (1951) Nag. 764. (2) 1. L. R. (1944) 1 Cal. 113.(3) I. L. R. (1947) Bom. 706. (4) 1. L. R. (1938) All. 776.(5)  A. I. R. (1952) Pun.89.			    1043the Code was available to a person who was a public  servantwhile  still in office but was not available to him when  hehad  already  been  discharged from service  before  he	 wasprosecuted.    These   cases  may   render   assistance	  inunderstanding the reason why a public servant, while he is apublic	servant,  cannot be prosecuted	without	 a  previoussanction for offences, committed by him as a public  servantand  thus  may, be of some indirect help in  construing	 thewords used in s. 6 of the Act.	Section 6, however, must  beconstrued   with  reference  to	 the  words   used   thereinindependent  of any construction which may have been  placedby these decisions on the words used in s. 197 of the Code.   Before an attempt is made to construe the words containedin  s. 6 of the Act some reference may be made to the  powervested in a court to take cognizance of an offence.  Section190  of	 the Code of Criminal Procedure	 confers  a  generalpower  on a criminal court to take cognizance  of  offences,but  the  exercise  of	such  power  in	 certain  cases	  isprohibited  by the provisions of ss. 195 to 199 of the	Codeunless	the conditions mentioned therein are complied  with.Under the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1952 (XLVI of 1952),Special	 Judges are appointed to try offences under s.	161,162,  163, 164, 165 or s. 165A of the Indian, Penal Code  ors. 5(2) of the Act.  They are authorized to take  cognizanceof these offences without the accused person being committedto  them for trial.  The exercise of this general  power  totake  cognizance  by  them is  prohibited  with	 respect  tooffences  committed  under s. 161, 164 or s. 165  of  IndianPenal  Code or under s. 5(2) of the Act by a public  servantwithout the previous sanction of a competent authority.	  Inour  opinion,  if a general power to take cognizance  of  anoffence	 is  vested  in	 a court,  any	prohibition  to	 theexercise  of  that power, by any provision of law,  must  beconfined to the terms of the prohibition.  In enacting a lawprohibiting  the  taking of cognizance of an  offence  by  acourt,	unless	certain conditions were complied  with,	 thelegislature did not purport to condone the offence.  It	 wasprimarily concerned to1044see  that prosecution for offences in cases coveted  by	 theprohibition  shall not commence without complying  with	 theconditions contained therein, such as a previous sanction ofa  competent authority in the case of a public servant,	 andin  other  cases with the consent of the  authority  or	 theparty  interested  in the prosecution or  aggrieved  by	 theoffence.   There can be little doubt that in the case  of  apublic	 servant  the  Central	Government  or	 the   StateGovernment  or	the authority competent to remove  him	fromservice	  is  vitally  interested  in  the  matter  of	 hisprosecution.   Such authority is directly concerned  in	 thematter	as  it	has to decide whether to accord	 or  not  toaccord	its  sanction  for the prosecution  of	one  of	 itsservants.  The authority concerned may refuse to accord suchsanction on the ground that the prosecution is frivolous  orvexatious  or on the ground that in the public ;Interest  itwould  be inexpedient to do so.	 Without some  safeguard  ofthis  kind a public servant may find it impossible to  carryon his official duties efficiently.   The	object	of  the	 Act was  to  suppress	bribery	 andcorruption.	Its   provisions   are	 severe.     Certainpresumptions  of guilt of offences committed under  ss.	 161and  165A of the Indian Penal Code were enjoined by s. 4  ofthe  Act  unless  the contrary was proved  by  the  accused.Section	 5  of	the  Act created  the  offence	if  criminalmisconduct  on	the  part of a public  servant,	 an  offenceunknown	 to any of the provisions of the Indian	 Penal	Codedealing	 with bribery or corruption.  Sub-section  (2)	madesuch  an  offence  punishable with  imprisonment  which	 mayextend	to  a term of 7 years, or with fine, or	 with  both.Under sub-s. (3) a court shall presume that the accused	 wasguilty	of misconduct if it was proved that he or any  otherperson	on  his	 behalf was in	possession,  for  which	 theaccused	  person  could	 not  satisfactorily   account,	  ofpecuniary  resources  or property  disproportionate  to	 hisknown sources of income.  These provisions of the Act  indi-cate  that it was the intention of the legislature to  treatmore  severely	than hitherto corruption on the	 part  of  apublic	servant	 and  not  to  condone	it  in	any   mannerwhatsoever.  If s. 6 had Dot found a place in			    1045 the  Act  it is clear that cognizance of an  offence  unders.161,	164  or	 s. 165 of the Indian Penal  Code  or  unders.5(2)	of the Act committed by a public servant  could	  betaken  by  a  court even if he had ceased  to  be  a  publicservant.   The mere fact that he had ceased to be  a  publicservant	 after	the  commission of  the	 offence  would	 notabsolve	 him  from  his crime.	 Section  6  certainly	doesprohibit the taking of cognizance of his offence, without  aprevious  sanction, while he is still a public	servant	 butdoes  that prohibition continue after he has ceased to be  apublic	servant	 ? It is to determine  that  question  whichrequires  us to examine and construe the provisions of s.  6of the Act and to express our opinion thereon.   When the provisions of s. 6 of the Act are examined it ismanifest  that two conditions must be fulfilled	 before	 itsprovisions  become  applicable.	 One is	 that  the  offencesmentioned therein must be committed by a public servant	 andthe other is that that person is employed in connection withthe  affairs  of the Union or a State and is  not  removablefrom his office save by or with the sanction of the  CentralGovernment  or the State Government or is a  public  servantwho  is	 removable from his office by  any  other  competentauthority.   Both  these  conditions  must  be	present	  topreventa   court  from	taking	cognizance  of	an   offencementioned  in the section without the previous	sanction  ofthe  Central  Government  or the  State	 Government  or	 theauthority  competent to remove the public servant  from	 hisoffice.	  If  either  of these conditions  is  lacking,	 theessential  requirements of the section are. wanting and	 theprovisions of the section do not stand in the way of a courttaking	cognizance without a previous sanction.	 An  offenceunder s. 161 of the Indian Penal Code can be committed by  apublic	servant	 or  by a person expecting to  be  a  publicservant,  but  s.  6 of the Act refers only  to	 an  offencecommitted  by  a  publicservant	 under	that  section.	 If,therefore, at the time a court was asked to take  cognizanceof  an	offence under s. 161 of the Indian Penal  Code,	 theaccused is a public servant but was not so at the time	thatthe offence was committed, but at which time he was1046merely expecting to be a public servant, a previous sanctionwould  be unnecessary before a court could take	 cognizance.as  the	 provisions of the section  would  be  inapplicable.Conversely,  if an offence under s. 161 of the Indian  PenalCode  was committed by a public servant, but, at the time  acourt  was  asked to take cognizance of	 the  offence,	thatperson	had  ceased to be a public servant one	of  the	 tworequirements  to  make s. 6 of the Act applicable  would  belacking	 and a previous sanction would be unnecessary.	 Thewords  in s. 6(1) of the Act are clear enough and they	mustbe  given effect to.  There is nothing in the words used  ins. 6(1) to even remotely suggest that previous sanction	 wasnecessary  before  a  court could  take	 cognizance  of	 theoffences  mentioned therein in the case of a person who	 hadceased	to  be a public servant at the time  the  court	 wasasked to take cognizance, although he had been such a personat  the	 time the offence was committed.  It  was  suggestedthat  el. (c) in s. 6(1) refers to persons other than  thosementioned  in cls. (a) and (b).	 The words " is	 employed  "are absent in this clause which would, therefore, apply to aperson	who had ceased to be a public servant though he	 wasso at the time of the commission of the offence.  Clause (c)cannot	be construed in this way.  The expressions " in	 thecase  of a person " and "in the case of any other  person  "must  refer to a public servant having regard to  the  firstparagraph   of	the  sub-section.   Clauses  (a)  and	(b),therefore,  would cover the case of a public servant who  isemployed  in connection with the affairs of the Union  or  aState  and is not removable from his office save by or	withthe  sanction  of  the	Central	 Government  or	 the   StateGovernment  and	 el. (c) would cover the case of  any  otherpublic servant whom a competent authority could remove	fromhis office.  The more important words in cl. (c) are "of theauthority  competent  to  remove him from  his	office".   Apublic servant who has ceased to be a public servant is	 nota person removable from any office by a competent authority.Section	 2 of the Act states that a public servant, for	 thepurpose of the Act, means a public servant as defined in  s.21 of the Indian Penal Code.  Under			    1047cl.  (c), therefore, any one who is a public servant at	 thetime a court was asked to take cognizance, but does not comewithin	the description of a public servant under  cls.	 (a)and  (b),  is accused of an offence committed by  him  as  apublic	servant	 as specified in s. 6 would be	entitled  torely  on  the provisions of that section and object  to	 thetaking	of cognizance without a previous sanction.  To	readcl.  (c) in the way suggested on behalf of  the	 appellants,would  be  to  give a meaning to this clause  which  is	 notjustified  by  the words employed therein.  It	was  furthersuggested that the provisions of sub-s. (2) of s. 6 indicatethat  it  was the status of the accused at the time  of	 thecommission of the offence which was relevant rather than hisstatus	at  the time a court was asked to  take	 cognizance.This sub-section was inserted into the Act by the Preventionof Corruption (Second Amendment) Act, 1952, and it purportedto  finally  settle any doubts which may arise as  to  whichauthority should grant the sanction in the case of a  publicservant	 who had committed an offence mentioned in  s.	6(1)and  who at the time the court was asked to take  cognizanceis still a public servant.  For example, it is not difficultto imagine cases where a public servant employed by a  StateGovernment   is	  subsequently	employed  by   the   CentralGovernment  and	 a question arises as to which	of  the	 twoGovernments  is to grant the sanction for  his	prosecution.This  sub-section resolves the difficulty by directing	thatwhere  a doubt arises, the authority which was to grant	 thesanction was the one which was competent to remove him	fromhis office at the time of the commission of the offence.  Ifthe provisions of sub-s. (1) bear the construction which  weplace upon them, there is nothing in sub-s. (2) which is  inconflict with that construction.  Besides, there is  nothingin  the	 language of sub-s. (2) which  carries	the  meaningsuggested on behalf of the appellants or which assists us inconstruing the provisions of sub-s. (1).  We cannot construethe  words " is employed " and " is not removable"  in	cls.(a) and (b) and "competent to remove him from his office" incl.  (c) as "was employed" and " was not removable "  and  "would have beenI331048competent to remove him from his office ". To do so would beto substitute our own words for the words of the statute  ascontained in these clauses.   In Criminal Appeal No. 122 of 1954, dealt with by anotherjudgment,  where  a similar question bad  been	raised,	 theappellant had suggested that two defects appearing in s. 197of  the	 Code  of Criminal Procedure  were  intended  to  beremedied  by  the Act: (1) that s. 197 did not	apply  to  apublic servant who had ceased to be a public servant at	 thetime of the taking of cognizance of an offence and (2)	thatan  offence under s. 161 of the Indian Penal Code  committedby  a public servant was not covered by s. 197 of the  Code,as such offence could not be said to have been committed  byhim  while acting or purporting to act in the  discharge  ofhis  official  duty, having regard to the decisions  of	 thecourts in India and of the Privy Council. We cannot see	 howthis assists us in construing s.6 of the Act.  Whatever	 thephraseology of s.197 of the Code may have been in the  past,the  decisions	of the courts in India that s.	197  of	 theCodedoes not   apply  to  a person who had ceased  to  be  apublic	servant	 at  the  time a court	was  asked  to	takecognizance were based upon the words used in that section atthe  time  the judgments were pronounced.   These  decisionslaid emphasis on the words " when any person who is a  judgewithin	 the   meaning	of  s.	19  of	the   Indian   PenalCode........................ or when any public servant	 whois  not removable from his office ............... "  It	 washeld  in  these decisions that these words  meant  that	 theperson	must  be a public servant at the time  a  court	 wasasked to take cognizance, although be may have been a publicservant at the time of the commission of the offence.  It istrue  that unlike s. 197 of the Code, s. 6 of the  Act	doesnot contain the words " while acting or purporting to act inthe discharge of his official duty ". We have to construe s.6  of the Act as we find it and the absence of	these  wordsfrom   the   section  renders  us  no  assistance   in	 itsconstruction.  In  our opinion, in giving effect to the ordinary  meaningof the words used in s. 6 of the Act, the conclusion			    1049is  inevitable	that at the time a court is  asked  to	takecognizance not only the offence must have been committed  bya  public servant but the person accused is still  a  publicservant	 removable from his office by a competent  authoritybefore	the  provisions of s. 6 can apply.  In	the  presentappeals, admittedly, the appellants had ceased to be  publicservants  at  the  time the court  took	 cognizance  of	 theoffences  alleged to have been committed by them  as  publicservants.  Accordingly the provisions of s. 6 of the Act didnot apply and the prosecution against them was not  vitiatedby the lack of a previous sanction by a competent authority.		     Criminal Appeal 25 of 1956.   In  this  appeal apart from the question that  the  courtcould not take cognizance of the offence alleged against theappellant  without  a  previous	 sanction  of  a   competentauthority, additional points had been taken for quashing theprosecution   pending  against	him.   The   appellant	 wasappointed  Deputy  Assistant  Director	Enforcement  in	 theMinistry of Industry and Commerce on March 25, 1949 and	 waspromoted  to  the office of Assistant Director on  July	 14,1949.	It  was alleged that he accepted  on  September	 11,1951,  a sum Rs. 10,000 as bribe in part payment out  of  anagreed amount of Rs. 30,000.  An enquiry under r. 55 of	 theCivil  Service	Rules  took  place  and	 thereafter  he	 wasdismissed  from	 service  on September	25,  1953.   In	 themeantime, it appears that correspondence bad ensued  betweenthe appellant and the Government.  On September 18, 1952,  afinal report was submitted to the court under s. 173 of	 theCode  of  Criminal  Procedure wherein  it  was	stated	thatalthough  a  prosecution was recommended, the order  of	 theMinistry  of  Commerce and Industry was that  the  appellantwould be dealt with departmentally.  On September 19,  1952,the Magistrate, by his order, approved of the closing of theinvestigation,	discharged the appellant from his  bail	 anddirected that the sum of Rs. 10,000 seized from him, was  tobe  returned  to the complainant.  The	prosecution  of	 theappellant was,1050however,  recommenced  on February II,, 1954,  on  the	samematerials and same allegations but on a fresh complaint.   It, was contended on behalf of the appellant, that once asanction  had  been  refused then that was the	end  of	 theprosecution for all times.  If once the sanction was refusedit  could not ever be granted later on. If  the	 prosecutionhad  been  dropped, then it could not be revived in  a	casewhere a. sanction was necessary prior to a prosecution,	 anda  promise not to prosecute prevented a	 reconsideration  ofthe matter.  Lastly, it was urged that in the  circumstancesof  the case it was an abuse of the process of the court  toallow  a  prosecution to be recommenced after  it  had	beenwithdrawn.   We  have  examined  the  correspondence  which  has	beenreferred  to in the petition for special leave and which  isto be found on the record of this case.	 There is nothing inthem  to  establish the allegation that a sanction  for	 theprosecution  of the appellant was positively  refused.	 Allthat  is indicated is that the Government chose	 to  proceedagainst the appellant departmentally.  It can hardly be saidthat  in doing so the Government had positively	 refused  togrant  sanction	 for  the  prosecution	of  the	  appellant.Indeed,	 it  may be legitimately said  that  the  Governmentpreferred to &wait the result of a departmental enquiry.  Ifthat  enquiry  exonerated  the appellant  the  occasion	 forgranting  a sanction may not arise.  If, on the other  band,the departmental enquiry established the allegation  againstthe   appellant,  the  Government  might  find	 itself	  inpossession  of	more  material than that  disclosed  by	 thepolice	investigation on which to decide whether a  sanctionshould	or should not be granted.  We cannot read  into	 thecorrespondence, as was suggested on behalf of the appellant,that  there was a promise on the part of the Government	 notto prosecute the appellant.   It is true that there was a final report and a withdrawalof  the	 case before a Magistrate.  At the  stage  when	 thewithdrawal  took  place	 the appellant was  still  a  publicservant and the court could not take			    1051cognizance  of the offence under s, 161 of the Indian  PenalCode  and  under  s.  5(2) of the  Act	without	 a  previoussanction.  The withdrawal of the case at that stage meant nomore  than  this  that	the  appellant	was  discharged.   Awithdrawal  of a case resulting merely in a  discharge	doesnot  prevent  the prosecution being recommenced on  a  freshcomplaint.   On February 11, 1954, when the fresh  complaintwas  filed  the	 appellant  was not  a	public	servant	 andtherefore the court could take cognizance without a previoussanction.   It  is unnecessary for us to say whether once a  sanctionis  positively refused a fresh sanction cannot	be  granted,because we are satisfied, on the materials before us,  that,in  fact,  there  was no positive refusal  to  sanction	 theprosecution of the appellant.   We  are  also  satisfied that the  circumstances  do	 notestablish  that there had been any abuse of the	 process  ofthe  court  and	 the provisions of s. 561A of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure do not apply.   As  the  points urged in these appeals have	failed,	 theappeals must, accordingly, be dismissed.			      Appeals dismissed.1341052