PETITIONER:THE  COUNCIL  OF THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED  ACCOUNTANTS  OF	Vs.RESPONDENT:B. MUKHERJEADATE OF JUDGMENT:10/09/1957BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR   72		  1958 SCR  371ACT:Chartered  Accountant-Misconduct      during appointment  asliquidator  by Court-If amounts to professional	 misconduct-Reference-Power of High Court-Chartered Accountants Act,1949(XXXVIII Of 1949), SS. 2(2), 21 and 22.HEADNOTE:Respondent,  a	chartered  accountant and a  member  of	 theInstitute of Chartered Accountants, was appointed liquidatorof  three insurance companies in pursuance of the orders  ofthe High48372Court.	 He received records, cash and securities on  behalfof  these companies.  The Assistant Controller of  Insurancefound	that   his   conduct  as   liquidator	was   whollyunsatisfactory	and  that  he would not even  reply  to	 theletters addressed to him.  His appointment was cancelled andanother person was appointed.  In spite of repeated  demandshe failed to return all the records, cash and securities.  Acomplaint  was	lodged against him with the Council  of	 theInstitute  of  Chartered  Accountants.	 After	inquiry	 therespondent  was found guilty of misconduct, and	 the  reportwas forwarded by the Council to the High Court for necessaryaction	under S. 21 of the Chartered Accountants  Act  1949.The High Court rejected the reference on the ground that theconduct	 of which the respondent was found guilty could	 notbe  said to be professional misconduct and did	not  attractthe provisions of ss. 21 and 22 of the Act.Held,  that  the respondent, when working as  a	 liquidator,must  be  deemed  to have been in practice  as	a  charteredaccountant  within the meaning Of S. 2(2) of the  Act.	 Thedefinition  of	misconduct  in S. 22 is	 inclusive  and	 theCouncil	 may  hold an inquiry and find a  member  guilty  ofconduct	 which,	 in its opinion, renders him unfit to  be  amember	of the Institute, even though such conduct does	 notattract any of the provisions of the schedule referred to inS.  22.	 The conduct of the respondent was grossly  improperand unworthy and amounted to professional misconduct  withinthe meaning of the Act.In  a  reference under S. 21 of the Act the High  Court	 hasample powers to adopt any course which would enable it to docomplete  justice between the parties.	It can	examine	 thecorrectness of the findings recorded by the Council or referthe  matter  back for further inquiry and call for  a  freshfinding.   The	High  Court is not bound to  deal  with	 themerits of the finding as it has been recorded and either  toaccept or reject it.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 170 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  12th  January,  1955, of the  Calcutta  High  Court  inexercise  of  its Special Jurisdiction under  the  CharteredAccountants Act, 1949, in Matter No. 107 of 1954.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, S. N.  Andley,J.    B.   Dadachanji	and   Rameshwar	  Nath,	  for	 theappellants.Aswini Kumar Ghose, T. S. Venkataraman and K.	  R.Chaudhury, for the respondents.3731957.  September 10.  The following Judgment of theCourt was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR J.-The material facts leading to the  presentappeal are not in dispute and may be conveniently stated  atthe  outset.  On July 17, 1933, the respondent was  enrolledas  a registered accountant under the  Auditors	 CertificateRules, 1932.  When the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, cameinto,  operation,  the respondent's name was  entered  as  aMember of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of lndia onJuly  1,  1949.	 On September 13, 1950, the  respondent	 wasappointed  a Liquidator of three companies.  The  respondentobtained  refund  of the sums and  securities  deposited  onbehalf	of  the	 three companies with the  Reserve  Bank  ofIndia.	 He, however, made no report about the	progress  ofliquidation of the said three companies.  Repeated  requestsmade  to him by the Assistant Controller of Insurance  foundno response.  As Liquidator the respondent gave a cheque  toShri  S. K. Mandal, Solicitor to the Central  Government  atCalcutta, towards payment of the taxed costs in the winding-up  proceedings	 of one of the companies.  The	said  chequewas,  however, returned dishonoured on the ground  that	 thepayment	 had  not  been arranged for.	When  the  AssistantController  of	Insurance  found that  the  conduct  of	 therespondent as Liquidator was wholly unsatisfactory and	thathe would not even show the ordinary courtesy of replying  tothe  letters  addressed to him, he proceeded to	 cancel	 theappointment  of the respondent as Liquidator by	 his  letterdated October 29, 1952.	 The respondent was then called uponto hand over all books of account, records, documents, etc.,to  Shri  N. N. Das, who was appointed a Liquidator  in	 hisplace.	 Shri  Das as well as the  Assistant  Controller  ofInsurance  then made repeated demands on the  respondent  todeliver	 to  Shri Das the assets and records  of  the  threecompanies.  It is common ground that the respondent had withhim securities of the value of Rs. 11,950 and a cash sum  ofRs. 642 on account of the United Common374Provident   Insurance  Co.  Ltd.   He  had  also  with	 himsecurities  to	the value of Rs. 12,100 on  account  of	 the-Asiatic  Provident  Co. Ltd., and securities and  cash	  onaccount	 of  the Citizens of India Provident  Insurance	 Co.Ltd.   Out  of these amounts the  respondent  returned	onlysecurities  of the face value of Rs. 10,000 and Rs.  350  ofAsiatic	 Provident  Co.	 Ltd., and United  Common  ProvidentInsurance  Co.	Ltd., respectively.  He failed to  send	 anyfurther	 securities  or cash held by him on account  of	 thesaid three companies.  It was at this stage that a complaintwas  lodged against the respondent with the Council  of	 theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of India in Calcutta.  Asrequired  by  the provisions of the  Act,  the	disciplinarycommittee  of the Council inquired into the matter.   Noticewas  served  on	 the  respondent but  he  filed	 no  writtenstatements  within  the time fixed.  On August	1,  1953,  aletter was received from the respondent that he was ill	 andwas  unable to attend personally.  The respondent  had	alsorequested for the adjournment of the case.  Proceedings wereaccordingly adjourned to August 29, 1953, on which date	 therespondent  was	 represented  by a  counsel  who  filed	 therespondent's affidavit stating that he was prepared to	handover  the entire cash, books of account, etc., to the  newlyappointed   Liquidator	without	 rendering   the   necessaryaccounts.   It	appears	 that  Shri  Das,  the	subsequentlyappointed Liquidator, gave evidence before the	disciplinarycommittee.   Though several opportunities were given to	 therespondent  to appear before the disciplinary  committee  hefailed	to  appear  or	to take	 part  in  the	proceedings.Ultimately  the committee made its report on  September	 13,1953,  and  found that the respondent was  guilty  of  grossnegligence  in the conduct of his professional duty  in	 nothanding	 over charge of the assets and the books of  accountof  the	 said companies to the newly  appointed	 Liquidator.This report was considered by the Council itself as requiredby  the Act.  Tile Council agreed with the finding  recordedby  the	 disciplinary committee in substance, but  took	 theview that the     375acts and omissions of the respondent were more serious	thanwhat  can be described as gross negligence.  The finding  ofthe  Council  was  then	 forwarded  to	the  High  Court  ofJudicature at Calcutta as required by section 21 (1) of	 theAct  and the matter was heard by the learned  Chief  Justiceand  Mr.  Justice Lahiri.  By their  judgment  delivered  onJanuary	 12, 1955, the reference was rejected on the  groundthat  no action could be taken against the respondent  underthe  Act  though  the facts proved  against  the  respondentshowed that " he had been guilty of grossly improper conductif  not	 dishonesty".  On these facts the main	point  whicharises	for  our decision is what is the nature,  scope	 andextent	of  the	 disciplinary  jurisdiction  which  can	  beexercised  under  the  provisions of this  Act	against	 therespondent.It  would  now	be necessary to examine the  scheme  of	 thematerial provisions of the Act.	 This Act came into force in1949  and it was passed, because the Legislature thought  itexpedient   to	 make  provision  for  the   regulation	  ofprofessional  accountants  and	for  that  purpose  it	 hasprovided for the establishment of the Institute of CharteredAccountants.  Section 2, sub-s. (1) (b) defines a  CharteredAccountant  as	meaning	 "a person who is a  member  of	 theInstitute  and who is in practice".  Section 2,	 sub-s.	 (2)provides  that a member of the Institute shall be deemed  tobe  in	practice when, individually or in  partnership	withchartered   accountants,   he,	in  consideration   of	 theremuneration  received	or to be received, does any  of	 theacts  mentioned	 in the following 4  sub-clauses:  .........Sub-clause (iv) is relevant for our purpose:"  S.  2  (2) (iv): " (Where a member)	renders	 such  otherservices  as  in the opinion of the Council are	 or  may  berendered  by a chartered accountant, (he is deemed to be  inpractice)."Section 4 provides for the entry of names in the register ofchartered accountants.	Section 5 divides the members of theInstitute  into	 two  classes  designated  respectively	  asAssociates and Fellows.	 Section 6 lays down that no  memberof the Institute shall be376entitled  to  practise	unless	he  has	 obtained  from	 the'Council  a  certificate  of practice.	Under  s.  7,  everymember of the Institute in practice shall be designated	  asa   chartered  accountant  and	no  person  practising	 theprofession  of	accountancy  in India shall  use  any  otherdesignation  whether in addition thereto or in	substitutiontherefor.   Section 8 deals with disabilities.	 Any  personwho  incurs any one of the disabilities enumerated  in	sub-cls.  (i) to (vi) of s. 8 shall not be entitled to have	 hisname  entered in or borne on the Register.   Sub-clause	 (v)deals with the disability arising by reason of conviction bya  competent  court whether within or without  India  of  anoffence	 involving  moral  turpitude  and  punishable	withtransportation	or  imprisonment or of an offence not  of  atechnical  nature  committed  by  him  in  his	professionalcapacity  unless in respect of the offence committed be	 haseither	been granted a pardon or, on an application made  byhim in this behalf, the Central Government has, by an  orderin  writing, removed the disability.  Sub-clause (vi)  dealswith the disability in cases where the chartered  accountantis found on an inquiry to be guilty of conduct which rendershim  unfit  to be a member of the  Institute.	Chapter	 IIIdeals  with the constitution of the Council, the  committeesof the Council and the finances of the Council.	 Chapter  IVdeals with the register of members and the removal from	 theRegister of the name of a chartered accountant, as  providedby  s. 20, sub-cls. (a), (b) and (c).  Under s.	 20,  sub-s.(2),  it is provided that the Council shall remove from	 theRegister  the name of any member who has been found  by	 theHigh Court to have been guilty of conduct which renders	 himunfit to be a member of the Institute.	Chapter V deals withthe  question of misconduct.  It consists of ss. 21 and	 22.Chapter VI deals with the constitution and functions of	 theRegional Councils; chapter VII deals with penalties    andchapter VIII deals with miscellaneous matters.	  Section 21deals with the procedure of enquiries	relating	  tomisconduct of members of the Institute.	     It reads thus:377"  S. 21. (1)-Where on receipt of information or on  receiptof  a complaint made to it, the Council is of  opinion	thatany  member  of	 the Institute has been	 guilty	 of  conductwhich,	if proved, will render him unfit to be a  member  ofthe Institute, or where a complaint against a member of	 theInstitute  has	been  made by or on behalf  of	the  CentralGovernment, the Council shall cause an inquiry to be held insuch  manner  as  may be prescribe and the  finding  of	 theCouncil shall be forwarded to the High Court.(2)....................(3)....................(4)....................Sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) of s. 21 deal with the  powersof the High Court in dealing with the reference made to	 it,under s. 21, sub-s. (1).  Section 22 defines misconduct.  Itreads thus:"  S.  22.   For the purposes of this  Act,  the  expressionconduct which, if proved, will render a person unfit to be amember of the Institute " shall be deemed to include any actor  omission specified in the Schedule, but nothing in	thissection	 shall be construed to limit or abridge in  any	 waythe  power  conferred  on the Council under  sub-s.  (1)  ofsection 21 to inquire into the conduct of any member of	 theInstitute under any other circumstances."The learned Judges of the Calcutta High Court have held thatthe  conduct of which the respondent is proved to have	beenguilty cannot be said to be professional misconduct properlyso-called  and cannot, therefore, attract the provisions  ofss. 21 and 22 of the Act.  "There, thus, seems to be no roomfor  contending"# observes the learned Chief Justice in	 hisjudgment, " that misconduct not connected with the  exerciseof  the	 profession  is also within the ambit  of  the	Act,provided it involves moral turpitude or appears to render  aperson	unworthy  to  remain  a	 member	 of  a	 responsibleprofession".   It has also been found by the learned  Judgesthat  even if they were to hold that the  misconduct  provedagainst	 the respondent attracted the provisions of  ss.  21and 22 of378the  Act  it would not be open to them to  take	 any  actionagainst the respondent on that ground because the  Institutecannot	expect the Court to take action in the present	caseon  the	 footing  that the respondent  had  been  guilty  ofmisconduct otherwise than in his professional capacity sincethat  is  not the finding which the Council arrived  at	 andwhich  is reported to the Court.  It is the  correctness  ofthese  findings that is challenged before us by the  learnedAttorney  General. lie contends that the learned  Judges  ofthe  Calcutta High Court have put an unduly  restricted	 andnarrow construction on the provisions of s. 21 and s. 22  inholding	 that  the respondent's conduct does not  amount  toprofessional  misconduct;  and he has also  urged  that	 thetechnical  reason given by the learned Judges in not  takingany action against the respondent even if they had  acceptedthe broader interpretation of the two said sections proceedson a misconception about the nature and extent of the powersof the High Court while hearing references made to it  underthe  provisions of s. 21, sub-ss. (2), (3) and (4).  In	 ouropinion,  the  contentions raised by the  learned  Attorney-General are well-founded and must be upheld.Let us first consider whether the conduct of the  respondentamounts to professional misconduct or not.  In dealing	withthis question it is necessary to bear in mind the provisionsof  s.	2,  sub-s. (2) (iv) of the Act.	  A  member  of	 theInstitute  under  this provision shall be deemed  to  be  inpractice  when	he  renders such other services	 as  in	 theopinion of the Council are or may be rendered by a charteredaccountant.   In  other	 words,	 just as  a  member  of	 theInstitute Who engages himself in the practice of accountancyis  by such conduct deemed to be in practice as a  charteredaccountant, so is he deemed to be in practice as a charteredaccountant when he renders other services mentioned in s. 2,sub-s.(2) (iv).	 What other services attract the  provisionsof this sub-section has to be determined in the light of theregulations framed under provisions of this Act.  Section 30of the Act confers power on the Council to make	 regulationsby notification379in the Gazette of India for the purpose of carrying out	 theobject	of  the	 Act and it provides that  a  copy  of	suchregulation  should be sent to each member of the  Institute.Section 30, sub-s. 2 sets out the several topics in  respectof  which  regulations can be framed though,  as  usual,  itprovides  that	the enumeration of the different  topics  iswithout prejudice to the generality of the powers  conferredby   s.	  30,  sub-s.(1).  Sub-s.  (4)	 lays	down   that,notwithstanding	 anything contained in sub-ss. (1) and	(2),the  Central Government may frame the first regulations	 forthe  purposes mentioned in the section and such	 regulationsshall  be deemed to have been made by the Council and  shallremain	in force from the date of coming into force of	thisAct  until  they  are amended, altered	or  revoked  by	 theCouncil.  Regulation 78 is one of the regulations originallyframed by the Central Government under s. 30, sub-s.   (4)..It reads thus:" Regulation 78.  Without prejudice to the discretion vestedin  the Council in this behalf, a Chartered  Accountant	 mayact   as  liquidator,  trustee,	  executor,   administrator,arbitrator,  receiver,	adviser, or  as	 representative	 forcosting	 financial  and taxation matter or may	take  up  anappointment that may be made by Central or State Governmentsand  Courts  of law or any Legal Authority, or	may  act  asSecretary   in	his  professional  capacity  not  being	  anemployment on a salary-cum-full time basis."The  last  clause  has	been  added  by	 the  Council  by  anotification  dated August 22, 1953.  Now it is	 clear	thatwhen  the respondent accepted his appointment as  liquidatorof  the three companies in question he agreed to work  as  aliquidator in pursuance of an order passed by the High Courtof Judicature at Calcutta and there can be no doubt that  inworking	 as such liquidator he was rendering services  whichin the opinion of the Council may be rendered by a charteredaccountant.  The provisions of Regulation 78 must inevitablybe  considered in the light of s. 2, sub-s.(2), cl.(iv)	 andthe  result  of	 considering  the  two	provisions  togetherobviously  is  that  when the respondent was  working  as  aliquidator  in pursuance of an order passed by the  CalcuttaHigh Court he49380must be deemed to be in practice within the meaning of s. 2,sub-s.(2).  We feel no difficulty in holding that  charteredaccountants who render services falling within s. 2,  sub-s.(2),  cl.  (iv) are as much entitled to be deemed to  be  inpractice  as  those whose duties attract the  provisions  ofcls. (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-s. (2).	 If that be the trueposition it is difficult to accept the view that the conductof  the	 respondent  while he discharged  his  duties  as  aliquidator  is not the professional conduct of	a  charteredaccountant  even within the narrow and restricted  sense  ofthe  term.  If, while acting as liquidator,  the  respondentmust be deemed to be in practice as a chartered	 accountant,all acts and omissions proved against him in respect of suchconduct	  as  liquidator  must	be  characterised   as	 hisprofessional  acts and omissions.  "Practice"  according  toWebster's New International Dictionary means Cc exercise  ofany profession or occupation " and if the performance of theduties as liquidator attracts the provisions of s. 2, sub-s.(2), whatever the chartered accountant does as a  liquidatormust be held to be conduct attributable to him in the courseof  his practice.  The object with which cl. (iv) in  sub-s.(2)  of	 s.  2	has  been  deliberately	 introduced  by	 theLegislature'  in our opinion, appears to be to bring  withinthe  disciplinary  Jurisdiction	 of  the  statutory   bodiesrecognized  under the Act, conduct of chartered	 accountantseven  while  they are rendering services otherwise  than  aschartered accountants properly so-called.  It is because theLegislature  wanted to provide for a self-contained code  ofconduct	 in  respect  of  chartered  accountants  that	 thedenotation of the expression " to be in practice " has	beenin a sense deliberately and artificially extended by  virtueof  s.	2, sub-s. (2), el. (iv).  We must,  therefore,	holdthat, on the facts proved, the respondent is clearly  guiltyof professional misconduct.This  would really dispose of the appeal before us,  becauseonce   it  is  held  that  the	respondent  is	 guilty	  ofprofessional  misconduct it would be obviously necessary  todeal  with him on that basis and make an  appropriate  orderunder s. 21, sub-s. (3) of the Act.  However,381since  the learned Attorney-General has alternatively  urgedbefore	us  that in confining the exercise  of	disciplinaryjurisdiction  only  to	cases  of  professional	 misconduct,technically  so-called, the learned Judges of  the  CalcuttaHigh Court have misconstrued the relevant provisions of	 theAct,  we  propose to deal very briefly	with  that  questionalso.Section	 21, sub-s. (1), deals with two categories of  casesin which the alleged misconduct of members of the  Institutecan  be	 inquired  into.   If  information  is	received  orcomplaint  is made to the Institute against the	 conduct  ofany chartered accountant the Council is not bound to hold aninquiry	 straightaway.	The Council is required. to  examinethe  nature of the information or complaint made and  decidewhether, if the facts alleged against the member are proved,they  would  render the member unfit to be a member  of	 theInstitute.   In	 other	words,	in the	case  of  a  privatecomplaint made against members, it is only where the Councilis  satisfied  prima.facie that facts  alleged	against	 themember,	  if   proved,	would  justify	 the   exercise	  ofdisciplinary  jurisdiction  against  the  member  that	 theCouncil is required to hold an inquiry.	 The conduct allegedmust be such as, if proved, would render the member unfit tobe a member of the Institute.  The other class of cases	 hasreference to. the complaint received by the Council from theCentral	 Government.  In regard to this class of cases,	 theCouncil	 is not required,-and indeed has no jurisdiction  toapply  the  primarily test-before holding an  inquiry.	 TheCouncil	 is required to cause an inquiry to be held on	suchcomplaint straightaway.	 In both the cases when the  inquiryis  concluded,	the  findings  of  the	Council	 are  to  beforwarded to the High Court.  Section 22 purports to  definethe  expression	 "conduct which, if proved,  will  render  aperson	unfit  to be a member of the Institute".  It  is  aninclusive  definition  ;  it includes any  act	or  omissionspecified  in the schedule but the latter portion of  s.  22clearly	 lays  down that nothing contained in  this  sectionshall be construed to limit or abridge in any way the  powerconferred  on  the Council under sub-s. (1) of s.  21.	 Theposition thus382appears	 to  be that though the definition of  the  Materialexpression used in s. 21, sub-s. (1), refers to the acts andomissions  specified in the schedule, the list of  the	saidacts and omissions is not exhaustive;and, in any event,	 thesaid  list  does  not purport to limit	the  powers  of	 theCouncil	 under s. 21, sub-s. (1), which may  otherwise	flowfrom the words used in the said sub-s. itself.	The scheduleto  which  s. 22 refers has enumerated in cls.	(a)  to	 (v)several	 acts and omissions and it provides that, if any  ofthese  acts  or	 omissions is  proved  against	a  charteredaccountant, he shall be deemed to be guilty of	professionalmisconduct  which  renders  him unfit to be  member  of	 theInstitute.   Clause (v) is rather general in terms since  itprovides  for cases where the accountant is guilty  of	suchother act or omission in his professional capacity as may bespecified  by the Council in this behalf by notification  inthe Gazette of India.  It must be conceded that the  conductof the respondent in the present case cannot attract any  ofthe  provisions	 in the schedule and may  not  therefore  beregarded  as falling within the first part of s. 22; but  ifthe  definition	 given	by s. 22 itself purports  to  be  aninclusive definition and if the section itself in its latterportion	  specifically	preserves  the	larger	powers	 andjurisdiction conferred upon the Council to hold inquiries bys.  21, sub-s. (1), it would not be right to hold that	suchdisciplinary jurisdiction can be invoked only in respect  ofconduct	 falling  specifically	and  expressly	within	 theinclusive definition given by s. 22.  In this connection  itwould  be  relevant  to	 mention  s.  8	 which	deals	withdisabilities.  Section 8, sub-ss. (v) and (vi), support	 theargument  that	disciplinary jurisdiction can  be  exercisedagainst	 chartered  accountants even in respect	 of  conductwhich may not fall expressly within the inclusive definitioncontained in s. 22.  We, therefore, take the view that, if amember	of  the Institute is found, prima facie,  guilty  ofconduct	 which, in the opinion of the Council,	renders	 himunfit  to  be a member of the Institute,  even	though	suchconduct	 may  not  attract  any of  the	 provisions  of	 theschedule,  it would still be open to the Council to hold  aninquiry against the383member in respect of such conduct and a finding against	 himin  such an inquiry would justify appropriate action.  beingtaken by the High Court under s. 21, sub-s. (3).  It is truethat the High Court would take action against the  offendingmember	only if the High Court accepts the finding  made  bythe   Council  and  not	 otherwise.   This   conclusion	  isstrengthened if we bear in mind the extended meaning of	 theexpression  "to be in practice" given in s. 2,	sub-s.	(2),which  we  have	 already dealt with.  In this  view  of	 thematter we must reverse the conclusion of the learned  Judgesof  the Calcutta High Court that the conduct proved  againstthe respondent does not fall within as. 21 and 22 because itis not conduct connected with the exercise of his professionas a chartered accountant in the narrow sense of that term.The next question to consider is in regard to the extent  ofthe jurisdiction and powers of the High Court when the	HighCourt  deals with references under s. 21, sub-ss.  (2),	 (3)and (4).  The learned Judges of the Calcutta High Court tookthe  view  that	 even  if they had agreed  to  put  a  widerconstruction  on the material words used in ss. 21  and	 22,they  would not be justified in passing any  orders  againstthe  respondent	 in  the  present  proceedings	because	 thefinding	 which had been referred to the High Court was	onlyone  and  that	was  that  the	respondent  was	 guilty	  ofprofessional misconduct in the narrow sense of the term.  Inother  words, the High Court thought that in accepting,	 andacting or the larger construction of the material words	 theHigh  Court would be making out a new case on the  referenceand the High Court would not be justified in adopting such acourse.	  In  our opinion, this view  is  not  well-founded.Section	 2  1,	sub-s. (2), lays down the  procedure  to  befollowed  by  the  High Court when a  finding  made  by	 theCouncil	 is referred to it under s. 21, sub-s. (1).   Noticeof the day fixed for the hearing of the reference has to  begiven  to the parties specified in s. 21, subs. (1)  and  anopportunity of being heard has to be given to them.  Section21,  sub-s.  (3),  then lays down that the  High  Court	 mayeither	pass such final orders on the case as it thinks	 fitor refer it back for further384inquiry	 by  the Council and, upon receipt  of	the  findingafter  such  inquiry,  deal  with the  case  in	 the  mannerprovided in sub-s. (2) and pass final orders thereon.  It isclear  that, in hearing references made under s. 21,  sub-s.(1),  the  High	 Court can examine the	correctness  of	 thefindings  recorded by the statutory bodies in  that  behalf.The  High Court can even refer the matter back	for  furtherinquiry by the Council and call for a fresh finding.  It  isnot as if the High Court is bound in every case to deal withthe merits of the finding as it has been recorded and eitherto accept or reject the said finding.  If, in a given  case,it  appears  to the High Court that, on	 facts	alleged	 andproved,	 an  alternative finding may be recorded,  the	HighCourt  'can  well  send the case back to  the  Council	withappropriate  directions in that behalf.	 The powers  of	 theHigh  Court  under s. 21, sub-s. (8), are  undoubtedly	wideenough to enable the High Court to adopt any course which inits  opinion  will,, enable the High Court  to	do  completejustice between the parties.  Besides, in the present  case,no  such  technical  considerations  can  really  come	intooperation  because  the	 material facts	 have  not  been  indispute between the parties at any stage of the proceedings.The  only  point  in dispute between the  parties  has	beenwhether on the facts proved disciplinary jurisdiction can beinvoked	 against the respondent under the provisions of	 theAct.   We, therefore, take the view that the learned  Judgesof  the	 High Court were in error in holding that,  even  ifthey had accepted the broader interpretation of s. 21 and s.22, they could not make an appropriate order in the  presentcase  against the respondent having regard to  the  specificfinding recorded by the Council in the inquiry in question.It  would  now	be  necessary  to  refer  to  some  judicialdecisions to which our attention has been invited.  In G. M.Oka, In re (1), it has been held by a Division Bench of	 theBombay	High Court that, when a chartered  accountant  givesevidence before a court of law and he is in the witness	 boxnot as a chartered(1)  [1952] 22 Comp.  Cas. 168.385accountant  but as a witness, the falsity of his  ,statementdoes  not give rise to any disciplinary proceedings  againsthim  as a chartered accountant.	 If he gives false  evidencehe  may	 be  guilty of perjury and if he  is  convicted	 theconviction  itself may call for disciplinary action.   Theseobservations  undoubtedly lend support to the view taken  bythe  Calcutta  High Court.  It is of course. true  that	 theconviction  of	a  chartered accountant	 would	attract	 theprovisions  of	s.  8, sub-a. (vi) and	in  that  sense	 theconclusion  of	the Bombay High Court  that  the  convictionitself	may  be the basis of disciplinary  action  is,	withrespect, wholly correct; but the other observations on whichreliance  is placed by the respondent before us	 are  obiterand it also appears from the judgment that the attention  ofthe  learned Judges was not drawn to the provision of  s.  2(2) (iv) and other relevant considerations do not appear  tohave  been urged before them in that case.  As the  judgmentitself	points	out, apart from the technical  points  whichwere  urged  before  the court on behalf  of  the  charteredaccountant,  there  was	 a large volume	 of  other  evidenceproduced  against him which conclusively proved that he	 wasguilty	of  misconduct.	 Mr. Ashwini Kumar  Ghosh,  for	 therespondent,  has also sought to rely on Haseldine v.  Hosken(1).  In this case the solicitor had taken out an  indemnitypolicy	which insured him against loss arising by reason  ofany  neglect,  omission	 or  error  while  acting  in	his.professional  capacity.	  During  the  subsistence  of	thispolicy, the solicitor sustained loss through having, withoutrealizing  the fact, entered into a  champertous  agreement.When  the solicitor made a claim to be indemnified,  it	 washeld that the loss in respect of which indemnity was claimeddid  not arise by reason of any neglect, omission  or  errorcommitted by the solicitor in his professional capacity	 butarose from his entering into a personal speculation.  We  donot see how this case can assist the respondent in any	way.In considering the question as to whether the respondent hasbeen guilty of professional misconduct in the present  case,we are concerned with(1)  [1933] 1 K.B. 822.386the  material  provisions of the Chartered  Accountants	 Actitself.	   Observations	 made  by  the	learned	 Judges	  inHaseldine's   case  can	 afford	 no  assistance	 to  us	  ininterpreting the said provisions.  Similarly the decision inKrishnaswamy  v. The Council of the Institute  of  CharteredAccountants (1) where the court was primarily concerned withthe question as to whether orders passed under s. 21 (2)  ofthe  Act  are orders passed in civil proceedings or  not  iswholly	inapplicable  and gives us no help in  deciding	 thepoints before us.The only question which now remains to be considered is	 thefinal  order  to  be passed  against  the  respondent.	 Theconduct	 of  the  respondent  is,  in  our  opinion,  wholl-yunworthy  of  a  chartered  accountant	 in  practice.	 Hisrefusal to give prompt replies to the letters received	fromthe  Assistant	Controller  of	Insurance  followed  by	 hisfailure to return the documents and all securities and	cashreceived  by him as liquidator leave no room for doubt	thathe  was	 unable	 to  return the said  amount  and  the	saidsecurities  and	 cash  and  that  he  was  merely  employingdelaying tactics with the object of postponing the evil day.It  is	not conduct which is only  technically	improper  orunworthy;  it  is  conduct which  is  grossly  improper	 andunworthy  and as such it calls for a deterrent	order.	 Therespondent  was appointed a liquidator by the Calcutta	HighCourt  presumably because he was a chartered  accountant  inpractice.  He thus received the benefit of this	 appointmentas  a  result  of  his status  as  chartered  accountant  inpractice and in acting as a liquidator he has been guilty ofconduct	 which is absolutely unworthy of his status  and  itrenders	 him  unfit to be a member of  the  Institute.	 We,therefore,  think that the ends of justice require that	 therespondent's  name should be removed from the  Register	 forfour  years.   In  regard  to  costs  we  direct  that	 therespondent  should pay the costs of the appellants  in	thisCourt  and that the parties should bear their own  costs  inthe court below.Appeal allowed.(1)  A.I.R. 1953 Madras 79.387