PETITIONER:BOMBAY DYEING &MANUFACTURING CO., LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/12/1957BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  328		  1958 SCR 1122ACT:   Labour Welfare-Law creating a fund for welfare activitiesCompanies  called upon to pay fines realised from  employeesand  unpaid  accumulation of  wages-Constitutional  validity-Bombay Labour Welfare Fund Act (Bom.XL of 1953), ss.  3(1),3(2)(a)(b)-Constitution of India, Arts. 31(2),19(1)(f).HEADNOTE:   The Bombay Labour Welfare Fund Act (Bom.  XL of 1953) wasenacted	 by  the  State	 Legislature  with  the	 object	  ofconstituting a fund for the financing of activities for	 thewelfare	 of  labour  and  S. 3(1) of  the  Act	provided  asfollows:-    "There  shall  be constituted a fund called	 the  BombayLabour Welfare Fund and, notwithstanding anything  containedin  any	 other	law for the time being in  force,  the	sumsspecified in subsection (2) shall be paid into the Fund."   Section 3(2) provided, inter alia, as follows   "The Fund shall consist of :-   (a)	  all fines realised from the employees;   (b)	  all unpaid accumulation;"    Notices  were served on the appellant's company as	alsoon  other  companies  similarly	 situated,  by	the  WelfareCommissioner, appointed under the Act, calling upon them  toremit  to  him the fines and unpaid accumulations  in  theircustody.  The appellant in reply questioned the validity  ofthe Act on the ground that it contravened Art. 31(2) Of	 theConstitution and, thereafter, filed a Writ petition, out  ofwhich  the  present  appeal arises,  which  was	 treated  byconsent	 of  parties  as a test case.	The  Judges  of	 theDivision Bench who heard the matter field that the  impugnedAct  was  intra	 vires, though	on  different  grounds,	 anddismissed the petition.	 The sole point for determination inthe  appeal was whether s. 3(I) and sub-cls. (a) and (b)  OfS.  3(2)  Of the Act were void as being	 violative  of	Art.31(2) Of the Constitution:   Held,  that	the unpaid accumulation of  wages  remainingwith the appellant company was its own property and S.	3(1)of  the impugned Act in so far as it directs the payment  ofit  tinder 3(2)(b) of the Act contravenes Art. 31(2) Of	 theConstitution  and  must be invalid.  Article 31(2A)  of	 theConstitution  has no retrospective effect and  cannot  applyand the matter must be decided on the law as it stood at thedate of the Writ petition.			    1123    The	 State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal  Bose,  [1954]S.C.R.	587 and Dwarkadas Shrinivas of, Bombay	v.  SholapurSpinning and Weaving Co. Ltd., [1954] S.C.R. 674, applied.    Assuming that money was not property within the  meaningof  Art. 31(2) and Art. 19(1)(f) applied that  Article	alsowould  be of no help to the respondent as the Act could	 notbe supported under Art.	 19(5) Of the Constitution.    Commonwealth  of Australia v. Bank of New  South  Wales,[1950] A.C. 235, held inapplicable.    The	 State	of Bihar v.  Mahayajadhiraja  Sir  KameshwarSingh of Darbhanga, [1952] S.C.R. 889, considered.    The impugned Act had not the effect of substituting	 theBoard as the creditor in place of the employee nor could  itbe  said  to  be  a  legislation  in  respect  of  abandonedproperty.    Although by defining 'unpaid accumulation' in the way itdid the Legislature obviously intended that only such  wagesof the employees as were time-barred should be taken by	 theState, it being well settled that the law of limitation onlybars the remedy but does not extinguish the debt, ss.  3(I),5(2)  and 17 of the Act must be held to have the  effect  oftransferring to the Board the debts due by the appellant  toits employees free from the bar of limitation.    Such a transfer can be valid only if it gives a completedischarge  to the employer from the debts.  If it does	not,the  Act  must	be held to infringe  Art.  19(1)(f)  of	 theConstitution.	The  Act contains no  provision	 granting  adischarge  to the debtor.  The bar of limitation  prescribedeither by s. 15 Of the Payment of Wages Act (Act IV Of 1936)or Art. 102 of the Limitation Act or the provisions of S. 56of  the Contract Act, assuming they applied, could not	givesuch a discharge.     Where  the Statute deals with rights arising out  of  acontract  and  interferes  with the rights  of	one  of	 theparties to it, it must affect those of the other parties  toit as well.  Consequently, the impugned Act which takes overthe rights of the employees in respect of wages due to	themwithout compensation and is, therefore unconstitutional,  ascontravening   Art.   19(1)(f)	 or  Art-   31(2)   of	 theConstitution,  would  be  unconstitutional  as	regards	 theappellant as well.     The  purpose  of a legislation  relating  to  abandonedproperty  must be, in the first instance, to  safeguard	 theproperty  in the interest of the true owner and	 thereafter,in absence of any claim, the taking over of it by the State.The impugned Act which vests the property absolutely in	 theState  without any regard for the claims of the	 true  ownercannot be said to be a law relating to abandoned property.I431124    Connecticut	 Mutul Life Insurance Company v. Moore,	 333U.S 541, Anderson National Bank v. Luckett, 321 U.S. 233 andStandard  oil Company v. New Jersey, 341 U.S. 428,  referredto.     As regards the fines mentioned in s. 3(2)(a) of the Actthe  appellant must be held to be a bare trustee under s.  8of  the	 Wages	Act having no beneficial  interest  in	fundcreated by that Act, and, consequently, ss. 3(I) and 3(2)(a)of the Act cannot contravene Art. 31(2) Or Art. 19(1)(f)  ofthe Constitution.    Nor	 could	it  be said that the Act  by  extending	 thecircle of beneficiaries had encroached on the rights of	 theemployees of the appellant.  These sections must, therefore,be held to be constitutionally valid.JUDGMENT:    CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  167  of1954.    Appeal from the Judgment and decree dated September	 14,1953, of the Bombay High Court in Misc.	 Application No. 267of 1953.    R.	  J.  Kolah, B. Narayanaswamy and J. B.	 Dadachanji,for the appellants.    H.	  M.  Seervai,	Advocate General for  the  State  ofBombay and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents.    1957.  December 20.	 The following Judgment of the Courtwas delivered by     VENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-The appellant is a limited Companyincorporated  under the Indian Companies Act, 1879.   It  iscarrying  on  business in the manufacture of  textiles,	 andowns three factories called Spring Mills,, Textile Mills andBombay	Dye Works, all of, which are situate in Bombay.	  Inits balance sheet for the year 1951, it has shown as one  ofits liabilities a sum of Rs. 1,65,731-1-0 under the heading"Unclaimed  wages ". This amount is made up of wages  earnedby  the	 workmen in the factories but remaining	 undrawn  bythem,  and represents accumulations from year to  year	eversince the formation of the Company which, it is stated,	 wasabout  the year 1880.  ' The dispute in this  appeal  mainlyrelates to this amount.    In 1953, the Legislature of the State of Bombay  enactedthe  Bombay  Labour  Welfare Fund Act  (Bum.   XL  of  1953)(hereinafter referred to as the Act), and it came into forceon June 4, 1953.  We may, at this			    1125stage, refer to the relevant provisions of the Act, as it istheir validity that is the main point for our  determinationin  this appeal.  The preamble to the Act recites that "  Itis  expedient  to  constitute a Fund for  the  financing  ofactivities  to	promote welfare of labour in  the  State  ofBombay	and for conducting such activities ". Section  2  isthe  definition section; sub-s. (2) defines an " employee  "as meaning " any person who, is employed for hire or  rewardto do any work, skilled or unskilled, manual or clerical, inan establishment".Employer " is defined in sub-s. (3) as meaning " any  personwho employs either directly or through another person eitheron  behalf  of	himself or any other  person,  one  or	moreemployees in an establishment and includes-in a factory	 anyperson named under s. 7(i)(f) of the Factories Act, 1948, asthe   manager	".  Sub-section	 (10)	defines	  "   Unpaidaccumulations  "  as  meaning  " all  payments	due  to	 theemployees  but	not made to them within a  period  of  threeyears from the date on which they became due whether  beforeor  after the commencement of this Act including  the  wagesand gratuity legally payable".	"Wages "is defined in sub-s.(11)  as  meaning  "  all  remuneration	 capable  of   beingexpressed in terms of money which would) if the terms of thecontract  of employment, express or implied were  fulfilled,be payable to a person employed in respect of his employmentor of work done in such employment............    Then, there is s. 3, which runs as follows:    (1).  "There  shall	 be constituted a  fund	 called	 theBombay	Labour	Welfare fund and,  notwithstanding  anythingcontained in any other law for the time being in force,	 thesums  specified in sub-section (2) ,shall be paid  into	 theFund.    (2).  The Fund shall consist of--       (a)     all fines realised from the employees;       (b)     all unpaid accumulations;       (c)     any voluntary donations;       (d)     any fund transferred under sub-section (5) ofsection 7; and       (e)     any sum borrowed under section1126    (3).  The  sums  specified in sub-section (2)  shall  becollected  by  such  agencies and in  such  manner  and	 theaccounts of the Fund shall be maintained and audited in suchmanner as may be prescribed."Section	 7(1) provides that "the Fund shall vest in and	 ,beheld  and applied by the Board as Trustees subject  'to	 theprovisions  and for the purposes of this  Act."	 Sub-section(2) of s. 7 is very material, and is as follows:   "Without  prejudice to the generality of sub-section	 (1)the  moneys  in	 the Fund may be utilized by  the  Board  todefray expenditure on the following:  (a)	  community  and social education centres  includingreading rooms and libraries;  (b)	  community necessities;  (c)	  games and sports;  (d)	  excursions, tours and holiday homes;  (e)	  entertainment and other forms of recreations;  (f)	  home industries and subsidiary occupations forwomen and unemployed persons;  (g)	  corporate activities of a social nature;  (h)	  cost of administering the Act including thesalaries  and  allowances  of the staff	 appointed  for	 thepurposes of the Act; and  (i)	  such other objects as would in the opinion of	 theState	Government  improve  the  standard  of	living	 andameliorate the social conditions of labour:   Provided that the Fund shall not be utilized in financingany  measure which the employer is required  under  any	 lawfor the time being in force to carry out;   Provided  further  that unpaid accumulations	 and  ,finesshall be paid to the Board and be expended by it under	thisAct  notwithstanding  anything contained in the	 Payment  ofWages Act, 1936 (IV of 1936), or any other law for the	timebeing in force ".Section 11 provides for the appointment of an officer calledthe  Welfare  Commissioner,  and  defines  his	,powers	 andduties.	 Section.17 enacts that,    "  Any  sum payable into the Fund under this  Act  shallwithout prejudice to any other mode of recovery,			    1127be  recoverable on behalf of the Board as an arrear of	landrevenue."Section 19 authorises the State Government to make rules  tocarry  out  the purposes of this Act.  Section	23  providesthat,   "In	section 8 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936  (IV  of1936),	to  sub-section (8) the following  shall  be  added,before the Explanation namely:    "  but  in the case of any factory or  establishment  towhich the Bombay Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1953 (Bom.  XL  of1953), applies all such realisations shall be paid into	 theFund constituted under the said Act."    Rules were framed by the State of Bombay in exercise  ofthe  powers conferred by s. 19, and they were  published  onJune  30, 1953.	 The material rules are Nos. 3 and 4,  whichare as follows:    3."	 Payment  of fines and of  unpaid  accumulations  byemployer-(I) Within fifteen days from the date on which	 theAct  shall  come into force in any area, every	employer  insuch  area shall pay by cheque, money order or cash  to	 theWelfare Commissioner-    (a)all fines realised from the employees before the saiddate and remaining unutilized on that date; ,and    (b)all unpaid accumulations held by the employer on	 theaforesaid date.  (2)The  employer  shall along with such payment  submit  astatement   to	 the  Welfare	Commissioner   giving	fullparticulars of the amounts so paid.  (3)	  Thereafter, all fines realised from the  employeesand all unpaid accumulations during the quarters ending 31stMarch, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December shall  bepaid by the employer in the manner aforesaid to the  WelfareCommissioner on or before the 15th of April, 15th of July  ,15th of October and 15th of January succeeding such  quarterand  a statement giving particulars of the amounts  so	paidshall  be  submitted by him along with such payment  to	 theWelfare Commissioner,1128   4.	  Notice  for  payment of fines and  unpaid  accumu-lations	 by Welfare Commissioner:-The  Welfare	Commissionermay,  after  making such enquiries as he may deem  fit,	 andafter calling for a report from the Inspector, if necessary,serve  a notice on any employer to pay any portion of  finesrealised from the employees  or unpaid accumulations held byhim which the employer has not paid in accordance with	rule3. The employer shall comply with the notice within 14	daysof the receipt thereof."   On  July  7,	 1953,	the  Welfare  Commissioner,   Bombayappointed under s. 1 1 of the impugned Act, sent a notice tothe   appellant	 and  other  companies	similarly   situate,inviting  their attention to the relevant provisions of	 theAct  and  of the rules and calling upon them  to  remit	 thefines  and  unpaid accumulations remaining  with,  them,  inaccordance with the directions contained therein.  To  this,the  appellant sent a reply on the same date  impugning	 thevalidity of the Act as being in violation of the  provisionsof  Art.  31  (2), and followed it up  by  filing  the	writpetition  out of which the present appeal arises,  it  beingtreated by consent of parties as a test case.    The application was heard by Chagla C. J. and  TendolkarJ.  who	 held that the impugned Act was intra vires  but  ondifferent  grounds.  The learned -Chief Justice- was of	 theopinion	 that,	on  its true construction,  the	 Act  merelysubstituted  the  Board as a creditor in the  place  of	 theemployees, that there -was no taking of property, and  that,in  consequence, there was no contravention of Art. 31	(2).Tendolkar J. hold that " unpaid wages " were  unquestionablymoneys which belonged to the employer and that he was  beingdeprived  of them, but there was no taking of possession  oracquisition   of  property  within  .Art.  31  (2)  of	 theConstitution but a deprivation of moneys, and as it was doneunder  the authority of -law, it fell within the  protectionof Art. 31 (1).	 In the result, the petition was  dismissed.The learned Judges,however, granted a certificate under Art.132, and that is how the appeal comes before us,			    1129    The	 sole  point  for determination in  this  appeal  iswhether s. 3 (1) and sub-cls. (a) and (b) of s. 3(2) of	 theAct   are  void	 as  contravening  the	provisions  of	 theConstitution; but to decide it, we have to consider quite  anumber of questions which have been raised and discussed  inthe arguments before us.  It will be convenient to deal withthe two items, fines realised' from the employees, s. 3	 (2)(a)  and unpaid accumulations, s. 3 (2) (b)  separately,  asthe  issues involved in the determination of their  validityare different.   Taking  first  unpaid accumulations, s. 3  (2)  (b),	 thecontention of Mr. Kolah for the appellant is that s 3 (1) isrepugnant  to  Art.  31	 (2) inasmuch  as  it  deprives	 theemployers of moneys belonging to them without payment of anycompensation merely on the ground that they represent  wagesdue  to the employees.	Now, money is undoubtedly  property,and  it cannot be disputed that a person who has money	doesnot cease to be its owner merely by reason of the fact	thathe  owes  debts in satisfaction of which it may have  to  beapplied.   Until the creditor takes appropriate	 proceedingsunder the law for the realisation of his debt and the  titleof  the	 debtor is extinguished in  those  proceedings,	 thetitle to the property continues in the debtor.	Mr. Kolah istherefore clearly right in his contention that the liabilityof the appellant to pay wages to the employees does not ipsofacto  extinguish  its title to the moneys belonging  to  iteven pro tanto, and that the effect, therefore, of s. 3	 (1)is  to take away money belonging to it.	 Then, the  questionis  whether  such a provision is hit by Art. 31 (2)  on	 theground	that  it  is acquisition  or  taking  possession  ofproperty   for	 a  public  purpose   without	payment	  ofcompensation.  It is common ground that the taking is for  apublic	purpose.  The point in- dispute is whether  what  issought	to  be	done under s. 3	 is  acquisition  or  takingpossession  of property within Art. 31 (2).  Tendolkar,	 J.,answered  this question against the appellant,	because,  inhis  view,  Art.  31 (2) would apply only  if  there  was  atransfer  of title to or beneficial interest in the  amountsto  the State, that s. 3 (1) effected neither, that  it	 diddeprive the employers of1130oheir  moneys, but that fell under Art. 31 (1) and not	Art.31  (2),  and that as that was done under the  authority  oflaw, it could not be questioned.    Subsequent to this decision, this Court had occasion  toconsider  the true scope of Art. 31 (2) in relation to	Art.31 (1) in The State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose	 (1)and  in	 Dwarkadas  Shrinivas  of  Bombay  v.  The  SholapurSpinning  and  Weaving Co. Ltd (2).  In The  State  Of	WestBengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose(1), the majority of the  learnedJudges took the view that.  Arts. 31 (1) and 31 (2) were notmutually  exclusive, that it was not an essential  requisiteof  acquisition	 under Art. 31 (2) that there  should  be  atransfer of title to the State, that deprivation of propertyand substantial abridgement of the rights of the owner	werealso within Art. 31 (2), and that a law which produced thoseresults	 must, in order to be valid, satisfy the  conditionslaid  down  in	that Article.  Das, J.,	 (as  he  then	was)differed  from this view, and held that the contents of	 thetwo  provisions	 were distinct, that while Art. 31  (1)	 hadreference  to the " police power" of the State, Art. 31	 (2)dealt  with  the power of " eminent domain ".  In  DwarkadasShrinivas  of  Bombay v. The Sholapur Spinning	and  WeavingCo.(2) the majority of the Judges again reiterated the	viewexpressed  in  The  State of West  Bengal  v.  Subodh  GopalBose(1)	 that  Arts.  31 (1) and 31  (2)  covered  the	sameground,	 and  that substantial interference with  rights  toproperty would be within the operation of Art' 31 (2).   On  these  decisions, it should follow that s. 3  of	 theimpugned  Act is bad as infringing Art. 31 (2), in  that  itdeprives  the  appellant of its moneys	without	 giving	 anycompensation.  Mr. Seervai, however, resists this contentionon the strength of Art. 31 (2A), which was introduced by theConstitution  (Fourth  Amendment)  Act,	 1955.	 It  is	  asfollows:   "  Where a law does not provide for the transfer  of	 theownership  or  right to possession of any  property  to	 theState or to a corporation owned or controlled by the  State,it shall not be deemed to provide for the(1) [1954] S.C.R. 587.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 674.1131compulsory  acquisition	 or  requisitioning  of	  property,:notwithstanding	  that	it  deprives  any  person   of	 hisproperty." The argument is that the theory that acquisition in Art. 31(2) is not confined to cases of transfer of ownership to theState,	and  that even deprivation of  property	 would	fallwithin it, which is the basis of' the decisions in The Stateof  West  Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose (1) and  in  DwarkadasShrinivas of Bombay v. The Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Co.Ltd.  (2) can, in view of the above amendment, no longer  beaccepted  as  correct, and that	 those	decisions  thereforerequire	 to be reconsidered in the light of the new Art.  31(2A).	But  it is not disputed that this provision  has  noretrospective operation, and that the rights of the  partiesmust be decided in accordance with the law as on the date ofthe  writ  application, and that on the	 provisions  of	 theConstitution  as they stood on that date and as	 interpretedin  The	 State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose  (1)	 andDwarkadas  Shrinivas of Bombay v. The Sholapur Spinning	 andWeaving Co. Ltd. (2), s. 3 (1) of the impugned Act would  beobnoxious  to  Art. 31 (2).  This should  be  sufficient  toconclude this, question in favour of the appellant, but	 therespondents contend that s. 3 (1) is not within the prohibi-tion of Art. 31 (2), because it operates only on money,	 andmoney is not property for purposes of that Article.    There  is  considerable authority in  America  that	 thepower  of  eminent domain does not extend to the  taking  ofmoney,	the  reason being that compensation which is  to  bepaid  in  respect  of money can only  be  money,  and  that,therefore,  in substance it is a forced loan.  In The  Stateof   Bihar  v.	Maharajadhiraja	 Sir  Kameshwar	  Singh	  ofDarbhanga(3 ), this view was adopted by Mahajan J. at  pages943-944, by  Mukherjea J. at page 961 and by  ChandrasekharaAiyar  J.  at  pages 1015 to 1018.  It	is  argued  for	 therespondents  that the position under Art. 31(2) is the	sameas in America, as the provision therein that either the  (1) [1954] S.C.R. 587.	(2) [1954] S.C.R. 674.  (3) [1952] S.C.R. 889.1441132amount of the compensation should be fixed or the principleson  which  and	the manner in which compensation  is  to  bedetermined should be specified, involves that what is  takenis  not	 money.	 It is argued, on the other  hand,  for	 theappellant  that the latest trends in American law  show,  aswas observed by Das J. (as he then was), at pages 984-985 inThe State of Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh ofDarbhanga  (1),	 a departure from the view held	 in  earlierauthorities that moneys and choses inaction could not be thesubject	 of " eminent domain "; and that, in any  case,	 theprinciples  of	American law should not be  applied  in	 theinterpretation	of the provisions of our  Constitution.	  Ifthe  contention	 of the respondents is to be  accepted,	 thequestion  naturally arises what protection a person  has  inrespect of moneys belonging to him if he can be deprived  ofthem  by process of legislation.  The answer of Mr.  Seervaiis  that that protection is to be sought in  Art.  19(1)(f),that  the word "  property" therein has a  wider connotationthan  what  it bears in Art. 31(2) and includes	 money,	 andthat the citizens have the right to hold money subject	onlyto  law such as is saved by Art. 19(5).	 In support of	thisposition,  he relied on the decision in Bijay  Cotton  MillsLtd.  v.The State of Ajmer (2) in which this  Court  appliedArt.  19(6)  in pronouncing on the validity of	the  MinimumWages Act (XI of 1948) requiring the employers to pay  wagesat a rate not less than that to be fixed by the Government.    Assuming  that  the correct position is  what  the	res-pondents  contend it is, the question that has still  to  bedetermined  is whether the impugned Act could  be  supportedunder Art. 19(5).  There was some discussion before us as tothe  scope of this provision, the point of the debate  beingwhether	 the words "imposing reasonable	 restriction"  wouldcover a legislation, which not merely regulated the exerciseof  the	 rights	 guaranteed by	Art.  19(1)(f)	but  totallyextinguished  them, and whether a law like the	present	 onewhich deprived the owner of his properties could be held  tofall  within  that  provision.	It was	argued	that  a	 lawauthorising  (1)	  [1952] S.C.R. 889.  (2)	  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 752.			    1133the  State  to seize and destroy  diseased  cattle,  noxiousdrugs  and the like, could not be brought within Art.  19(5)if the word 'restriction' was to be narrowly construed,	 andthat  accordingly  the	power to restrict must	be  held  toinclude,  in  appropriate cases, the power to  prohibit	 theexercise  of the right.	 That view does find support in	 theobservations of Lord Porter in Commonwealth of Australia  v.Bank  of  New South Wales (1); but the	present	 legislationcannot be sustained even on the above interpretation of	 theword 'restriction', as s. 3(1) of the Act deals with  moneysand  money cannot be likened to diseased cattle	 or  noxiousdrugs  so as to attract the exercise of police	power  underArt.  19(5).   It appears to us that whether we	 apply	Art.31(2) or Art. 19(5), the impugned Act cannot be upheld,	 andit  must  be  struck  down,  unless  we	 accept	 the   othercontentions  which  have been urged for the  respondents  insupport	 of  its validity.  Those contentions  are  firstly,that the Act merely substitutes the Board as the creditor inthe  place  of the employees, and that ss. 3 and  17  merelyprescribe the mode in which the obligation is to be enforcedand-that  was  the ground on which Chagla C.  J.  based	 hisjudgment; and secondly, that the impugned legislation is onein  respect  of abandoned property, and it is  not  open  toattack as contravening either Art. 19 (1)(f) or Art.  31(2).It is those contentions that now fall to be considered.    As regards the first contention, the question is whetheron  a  fair construction of the provisions of  the  impugnedAct,  it  is  possible	to  spell  out	a  substitution	  ofcreditors.   When an employee has done his work, the  amountof  wages earned by him becomes a debt due to him  from	 theemployer,  and it is property which could be assigned  underthe law.  If the employee had assigned the debt to the Boardconstituted  under the Act, the latter would be entitled  torecover it from the employer.  And what could be done by actof parties can also be done by legislation.  What we have tosee, therefore, is whether on the provisions of the  statuteit could be held that there is a statutory   (1)	  [1950] A-C. 235, 311.1134transfer  of the wages earned by the workman to	 the  Board.Section 5 of the Act vests the amounts mentioned in s.	3(2)in the Board, and s. 3(1) directs that those amounts  shouldbe  paid  by  the employer to the Board.   Counsel  for	 theappellant  contends  that there are in the Act no  words  oftransfer of the debts to the ;Board, and that there is	onlya provision for payment of the amounts.	 But this is  takingtoo  narrow  a view of the true scope of  those	 provisions.Looking	 at the substance of the matter, we are	 of  opinionthat  s. 3(1) and s. 5(1) do operate to transfer  the  debtsdue to the employees, to the Board.   It  will  be	 observed that	the  definition	 of  "unpaidaccumulations " takes in only payments due to the  employeesremaining  unpaid within a period of three years after	theybecome due.  The intention of the Legislature obviously	 wasthat claims of the employees which are within time should beleft  to be enforced by them in the ordinary course of	law,and that it is only when they become time-barred and uselessto  them that the State should step in and take	 them  over.On  this,  the question arises for consideration  whether  adebt  which is time-barred can be the subject  of  transfer,and  if it can be, how it can benefit the Board to  take  itover if it cannot be realised by process of law.  Now, it isthe  settled  law  of  this  country  that  the	 statute  ofLimitation only bars the remedy but does not extinguish	 thedebt.	Section 28 of the Limitation Act provides that	whenthe  period limited to a person for instituting a  suit	 forpossession  of any property has expired, his right  to	suchproperty is extinguished.  And the authorities have held-andrightly, that when the property is incapable of	 possession,as for example, a debt, the section has no application,	 andlapse  of  time does not extinguish the right  of  a  personthereto.  Under s. 25(3) of the Contract Act, a barred	debtis good consideration for a fresh promise to pay the amount.When  a debtor makes a payment without any direction  as  tohow it is to be appropriated, the creditor has the right  toappropriate  it	 towards a barred debt. (Vide s. 60  of	 theContract  Act).	  It has also been held that a	creditor  isentitled			    1135to  recover the debt from the surety, even though a suit  onit  is	barred against the principal  debtor.	Vide  MahantSingh v. U Ba Yi (1), Subramania Aiyar v. Gopala Aiyar	(2),and Dil Muhammad v. Sain Das (3).  And when a creditor has alien  over  goods  by way of security for  a  loan,  he	 canenforce	 the  lien for obtaining satisfaction of  the  debt,even  though an action' thereon would be time-barred.	VideNarendra  Lal Khan v. Tarubala Dasi (4).  That is  also	 thelaw in England.	 Vide Halsbury's Laws of England (Hailsham'sEdition), Vol. 20, page 602, para. 756 and the	observationsof Lindley L. J. in Carter v. White (5) and of Cotton L.  J.in  Curwen v. Milburn (6).  In American Jurisprudence,	Vol.34, page 314, the law is thus stated :     "	A majority of the courts adhere to the view  that  astatute	 of  limitations, as distinguished  from  a  statutewhich prescribes conditions precedent to a right of  action,does  not  go to the substance of a right, but only  to	 theremedy.	  It  does not extinguish the debt or  preclude	 itsenforcement,  unless the debtor chooses to avail himself  ofthe  defence and specially pleads it.  An indebtedness	doesnot lose its character as such merely because it is  barred;it  still  affords  sufficient consideration  to  support  apromise to pay, and gives a creditor an insurable interest."   In Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. 53, page 922, we have	 thefollowing statement of the law :    "  The general rule, at least with respect to  debts  ormoney demands, is that a statute of limitation bars, or runs"against,  the	remedy and does not discharge  the  debt  orextinguish  or	impair the right, obligation,  or  cause  ofaction."    The position then is that under the law a debt  subsistsnotwithstanding	 that its recovery is barred by	 limitation,and  no argument has been addressed to us by  the  appellantthat  the transfer of such a debt is invalid; and indeed  itcould not be, in view of the provisions in the impugned Act,which release the debts  (1)	  (1939) L. R. 66 1. A. 198.  (2)	  (1910) I.L.R. 33 Mad. 308.  (3)	  A.I.R. 1927 Lah. 396.  (4)	  (1921) I.L.R. 48 Cal. 817, 823.  (5)	  (1883) 25 Ch.	 D. 666, 672.  (6)	  (1889) 42 Ch.	 D. 4 24, 434.1136due  to the employees from the bar of  limitation.   Section3(1)  provides	that payment shall be made  of	the  amountsspecified in sub-cl. (2) "notwithstanding anything containedin  any	 other law for the time being in force."  A  similarprovision  is again enacted in the second proviso to  sub-s.(2) of s. 5 that "unpaid  accumulations " and fines shall bepaid to the Board "notwithstanding anything contained in thePayment	 of Wages Act, 1936, or any other law for  the	timebeing in force." One of those laws is the law of limitation,and the effect of these provisions is to suspend  limitationin  respect  of	 the claims to which s.	 3(2)  relates.	  Todispel	any  doubt  as to whether it was  competent  to	 theLegislature of the Bombay State to modify the provisions  ofthe Limitation Act, it should be stated that limitation is atopic  enumerated in the Concurrent List, being Entry 13  inList III in Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, and  underArt. 254(2), the State Legislature can enact a law modifyingthe  Central Act, provided it is reserved for  considerationby  the President and assented to by him, and that has	beendone in the present case.  Coming to the impugned Act, thereis  one other provision therein to which reference  must  bemade.	Section 17 provides that without prejudice to  othermodes  of recovery, the sums payable to the fund under s.  3may  be	 recovered as arrears of land revenue.	 This  is  aprovision  which is generally made when amounts are due	 andpayable	 to the State, and Mr. Kolah concedes, that  if	 theimpugned law is otherwise valid, it cannot be said to be badby  reason  of this section.  On the above  analysis,  therecannot	be  any	 doubt	that  the  effect  of  the  relevantprovisions of the Act is to transfer to the Board the  debtsdue  by the appellant to its employees free from the bar  oflimitation.   The	question  still	 remains whether there	has  been  asubstitution of creditors, and that can only be, if the debtdue to the employee is discharged and in its place there  issubstituted  the debt in favour of the Board.  If,  however,the  employer  is  not released from his  liability  to	 theemployee,  then the effect of s. 3(1) is only to  create  inthe Board a statutory creditor in			    1137addition  to the creditor under the contract of	 employment,and  there can be no question of substitution.	Mr.  Seervaiagrees	that if the Act does not operate to'  discharge	 theemployer from his obligations to the employees in respect ofthe  wages  due	 to  them,  then  it  must  be	held  to  beunconstitutional  as infringing Art. 19(1)(f),	because	 hiscontention that the effect of' the Act was only to take	 theproperty  of  the employer in discharge of  its	 obligationscould not then be maintained.     The real point for determination, therefore, is whetheron payment of the amounts in accordance with s. 3(1) of	 theAct,  the appellant gets a discharge of his  obligations  tothe employees in respect of wages due to them.	The Act doesnot  contain any provision to that effect, and	the  absencethereof	 has  been strongly relied on by  the  appellant  asshowing that no substitution of creditors was intended.	  Inanswer	to this contention, Mr. Seervai urges  firstly	thatthough the Act does not, in terms, provide for the dischargeof  the	 appellant on payment of the amount under  s.  3(1),that is the result of the provisions of the Payment of WagesAct  (Act IV of 1936), hereinafter referred to as the  WagesAct, and secondly, that the effect of s. 3(1) of the Act  isto render the contract of employment void under s. 56 of theContract  Act, and the appellant is thereby discharged	fromhis obligations thereunder.  We shall now examine both thesecontentions.    To	appreciate the first contention, it is necessary  torefer to the relevant provisions of -the Wages Act.  Section2(vi)  defines	"wages" in terms which	comprehend  whateverfalls within the definition of that word in s. 2(11) of	 theimpugned   Act.	  Section  3  casts  on	 the  employer	 theresponsibility	for payment of wages to persons employed  byhim.   Section	4 provides for the fixing of  wage  periods,which,	however, are not to exceed one month.  Under  s.  5,the  wages  have to be paid before the expiry  of  ten	daysafter  the last day of the wage period in case of  employeeswho  continue  in  service and in the case  of	those  whoseemployment has been terminated, within the second1138working	 day of such termination.  Section 15 provides	thatwhere an unauthorised deduction has been made from the wagesof an employed person or payment of wages has been  delayed,such  person may apply to the authority appointed under	 theAct  for a direction for payment of the amount	deducted  orthe  delayed  ;wages,  as the case  may	 be,  together	withpayment	 of compensation.  Such application has to  be	madewithin six months from the date on which the deductions weremade  or the date on which the payment of wages became	due,and  by	 Act No. 62 of 1953 of the Bombay  Legislature,	 theperiod	of six months has been enlarged to one year.   Thereis a proviso to this section that an application  thereundercan  be made after the period prescribed therein  "when	 theapplicant  satisfies  the authority that he  had  sufficientcause  for not making the application within  such  period."Section 22(d) of the Act provides that,   "No	Court shall entertain any suit for the	recovery  ofwage or of any deduction from wages in so far as the sum  soclaimed	 could have been recovered by an  application  undersection 15........    Now,  the argument of the respondents is that under	 theprovisions aforesaid, an employee has to prosecute his claimfor  unpaid  wages  before the	authority  within  the	timelimited by s. 15 of the Wages Act, which is one year in	 theState  of  Bombay,  that if he fails to	 do  so	 it  becomesunenforceable,	and  a suit with respect thereto  under	 thegeneral law is also barred.  The result is, it is contended,that   having	regard	 to  the   definition	of   "unpaidaccumulations" as meaning all payments due to the  employeesbut  not  made to them within a period of three	 years,	 theemployer  runs	no risk of being called upon to pay  to	 theemployee  what	has been paid by him to the Board  under  s.3(1),  and that therefore a payment under the  impugned	 Actgives  him  what  is, for all  practical  purposes,  a	gooddischarge.   This argument rests on the supposition that  sofar  as	 unpaid wages are concerned, the  operation  of	 theWages  Act  is co-extensive with that of the  impugned	Act.But  that  clearly is erroneous.  It is true that  wages  asdefined in the Wages Act			    1139would  include	whatever are wages under the  impugned	Act.But s. 1(6) limits the application of the Wages Act to wageswhich  are below Rs. 200 for a wage period.  In	 respect  ofwages  of Rs. 200 or more, it is the general law that  wouldapply, and the period of limitation is not one year under s.15  of the Wages Act but three years under Art. 102  of	 theLimitation' Act, which period is capable of extension  underthe provisions of the Limitation Act beyond the three  yearsmentioned  in s. 2(10) of the impugned Act.  Then, it is  tobe  noted that under the proviso to s. 15(1), the  authorityhas  the  power to admit a petition even beyond	 the  periodmentioned there, if sufficient cause is shown therefor.	  Tothis,  the reply of the respondents is that as on the  termsof  s.	3(1) and the second proviso to s. 5(2) they  are  totake effect notwithstanding anything contained in the  WagesAct  or any other law, they override the power conferred  bythe  proviso to s. 15(1) of the Wages Act or the  provisionsof the Limitation Act.   Even	 as  regards  s.  22 of	 the  Wages  Act,  there  isdivergence  of	judicial opinion as to its true	 scope.	  InSimpalax  Manufacturing Co. Ltd. v. Alla-Ud-Din (1), it	 washeld  that  if	there was any bona fide dispute	 as  to	 theamount payable, the jurisdiction of the Civil Court was	 notbarred by s. 22.  On the other hand, it was held in  BhagwatRai v. Union of India (2) that the jurisdiction of the CivilCourt  would  be  barred,  even if there  was  a  bona	fidedispute,  and that the bar under s. 22(d) was absolute,	 andcertain observations in Modern Mills Ltd. v.  Mangalvedhekar(3)  and A. B. Sarin v. B. C. Patil (4) were relied  on,  assupporting this contention.  Even if Mr. Seervai is right inhis  contention	 that  the law is  correctly  laid  down  inBhagwat	 Rai v. Union of India (2) and that the decision  inSimpalax Manufacturing Co. Ltd. v. Alla-Ud-Din(1) is  wrong,the  fact remains that claims in respect of unpaid wages  towhich  the impugned Act applies must, in view of s. 1(6)  ofthe Wages Act, fall at least(1)  A.I.R. 1945 Lah.  195.(2)  I.L.R. 1953 Nag. 433.(4)  A.I.R. 1951 BOM. 423.(3)  A.I.R. 1950 Bom. 342.1451140in part outside the purview of that Act, and the  protectionafforded  by  s. 15 of that Act will not be  available	withreference thereto.   It  is next contended that even if the impugned Act	doesnot  protect the employer in respect of unpaid	wages  whichfall outside the Wages Act, it should be upheld in so far asit relates to those claims which fall within the purview  ofthat  Act, as the bar of limitation under s. 15 of that	 Actis  sufficient safeguard to the employer against being	madeliable at the instance of the employees for wages which	 hadbeen paid to the Board.	 And it is also contended that	evenwith reference to claims for unpaid wages which fall outsidethe  Wages Act, the impugned Act should be held to be  validif  such  claims  are barred under  the	 provisions  of	 theLimitation Act.	 In other words, the contention is that	 theimpugned Act should be upheld in respect of that portion  ofthe  unpaid wages the recovery of which by the employees  isbarred by limitation whether under s. 15 of the Wages Act orthe Limitation Act.   The impugned Act, it should be noted, merely enacts	thatall  unpaid accumulations should be paid to the	 Board.	  Itmakes  no distinction between claims for unpaid wages  whichare barred by limitation and those which are not so  barred.It  is contended for the respondents that when the  subject-matter	of a law comprehends distinct matters as to some  ofwhich it is unconstitutional and bad, it should neverthelessbe  upheld  as regards the others, if those  others  form  adistinct category, and that this principle applies not	onlywhen  a classification into distinct categories	 appears  onthe  face of the law but also when it exists in fact.	Now,the  doctrine  of  severability	 in  application  is   well-established  in our law (vide The State of Bombay v.  F.  N.Balsara (1), The State of Bombay v.The United Motors (India)Ltd.and R. M. D. Chamarbaugwalla v. Union of Indiaandthe principles applicable have been stated fullyinChamarbaugwalla's  Case (3).  But assuming on the  basis  ofthe above autho-(1) [1951] S.C.R. 682.		 (2) [1953] S.C.R.1069.(3)[1957] S.C.R. 930.			    1141rities that we can confine the operation of the impugned Actto  those  claims  of  unpaid  wages  which  are  barred  bylimitation,  the question still is whether the impugned	 Actgives  a discharge to the employer even in respect of  thoseclaims;	 for,  as  already stated,  the	 operation  of	Art.19(1)(f) can be avoided only if it is established that therehas  been a substitution of creditors, which can only be  ifand   when  the	 employer  gets	 a  discharge	from   thoseobligations  to	 the  employees.  The point  to	 be  decidedtherefore is whether the effect of the bar of limitation  isto discharge the employer from liability to the employees.   It  has been already mentioned that when a  debt  becomestime-barred,  it  does	not  become  extinguished  but	onlyunenforceable  in  a court of law.  Indeed, it	is  on	thatfooting that there can be a statutory transfer of the  debtsdue  to the employees, and that is how the Board gets  titleto them.  If then a debt subsists even after it is barred bylimitation,  the employer does not get, in law, a  dischargetherefrom.   The  modes	 in  which  an	obligation  under  acontract becomes discharged are well-defined, and the bar oflimitation  is not one of them.	 The following	passages  inAnson's	 Law  of  Contract,  19th  Edition,  page  383,	 aredirectly in point:     "	At  Common  Law	 lapse	of  time  does	not   affectcontractual  rights.   Such a right is of  a  permanent	 andindestructible	character, unless either from the nature  ofthe  contract, or from its terms, it be limited in point  ofduration.     "But   though  the	 right	possesses   this   permanentcharacter,  the	 remedies  arising from	 its  violation	 arewithdrawn  after a certain lapse of time;  interest  reipub-licae ut sit finis litium.  The remedies are barred,  thoughthe right is not extinguished."     And if the law requires that a debtor should get a dis-charge	before he can be compelled to pay, that	 requirementis  not	 satisfied if he is merely told that in	 the  normalcourse	he  is	not likely to be exposed to  action  by	 thecreditor.     That this distinction is not purely academical but.1142is of practical importance will be seen, when regard is	 hadto  the	 provisions of the Industrial Disputes	Act.   Underthat  Act, there is no period of limitation  prescribed	 forreferring  a dispute for adjudication by a  tribunal.	Evenwhen a claim for wages falls within the purview of the WagesAct  and  an application under s. 15 of that  Act  would  bebarred,	 it  can  nevertheless give rise  to  an  industrialdispute	 in respect of which action can be taken  under	 theprovisions  of the Industrial Disputes Act.  It was held  bythe  Federal Court in Shamnagore Jute Factory Co. Ld. v.  S.M.  Modak  (1) that s. 22(d) of the Wages Act did  not	takeaway the power of the authorities to refer to a tribunal setup under the Industrial Disputes Act a claim which could  bemade  under the Wages Act, as that section  had	 applicationonly  to  suits	 and  did  not	exclude	 other	 proceedingspermitted  by  law  for the enforcement of  payment.   If  atribunal appointed under that Act can direct an employer  tomake  payment of wages, it follows that the bar under s.  15of the Wages Act does not give an absolute protection to theemployer, and the same consequence must follow when the	 barof  limitation arises under the Limitation Act.	 The  resulttherefore is that when an employer makes a payment under  s.3(1) of the Act he gets no discharge from his obligation  tothe  employees, even when the enforcement thereof is  barredby limitation.    The contention based on the provisions of the Wages	 Actfailing,  Mr. Seervai falls back on s. 56  of  the  ContractAct as furnishing a ground for holding that the employer  isdischarged.  Para. (2) of s. 56 provides that,    "  a contract to do an act which, after the contract  ismade,  becomes impossible, or by reason of some event  whichthe promisor could not prevent, unlawful, becomes void	whenthe act becomes impossible orunlawful."   It  is argued that by operation of s. 3 of  the  impugnedAct,  the  performance of the contract by the  employer	 hasbecome impossible, and the contract has thereby(1)  [1949] F.C.R. 365.			    1143become	void.  Section 56 of the Contract Act  embodies	 thelaw relating to frustration of contracts, and the true scopeof  that section was considered by this Court in  SatyabrataGhose v. Mugneeram Bangur and Co.The position was thus stated by Mukherjea J.:   " In the large majority of cases however the doctrine  offrustration  is applied not on the ground that	the  partiesthemselves  agreed  to	an implied term	 which	operated  torelease	 them  from the performance of	the  contract.	 Therelief	is  given by the court on the ground  of  subsequentimpossibility when it finds that the whole purpose or  basisof a contract was frustrated by the intrusion or  occurrenceof an unexpected event or change of circumstances which	 wasbeyond what was contemplated by the parties at the time whenthey entered into the agreement.  Here there is no  questionof  finding  out an implied term agreed to  by	the  partiesembodying a provision for discharge, because the parties didnot  think about the matter at all nor could  possibly	haveany intention regarding it. When such an event or change  ofcircumstances  occurs  which  is so  fundamental  as  to  beregarded by law as striking at the root of the contract as awhole,	it is the court which can pronounce the contract  tobe  frustrated and at an end.  The court undoubtedly has  toexamine	 the contract and the circumstances under  which  itwas  made.   The  belief, knowledge  and  intention  of	 theparties	 are evidence, but evidence only on which the  courthas   to  form	its  own  conclusion  whether  the   changedcircumstances	destroyed  altogether  the  basis   of	 theadventure  and its underlying object.  This may be called  arule  of construction by English Judges but it is  certainlynot  a	principle of giving effect to the intention  of	 theparties which underlies all rules of construction.  This  isreally	a rule of positive law and as such comes within	 thepurview of section 56 of the Indian Contract Act."    Counsel  for  the  respondents relies  on  these  obser-vations, and contends that when the contract of service	 wasentered	 into between the employer and the  employees,	theycould not have contemplated(I)  [1954] S.C.R. 310,323.1144that the Legislature would have intervened and required	 theemployer to pay the arrears of wages to the Board, and	thatthat is a supervening impossibility which brings s. 56	intoplay  and renders the contract void.  We are  not  satisfiedthat  the  performance of the contract of service  has	beenrendered  impossible  by reason of s. 3(1) of  the  impugnedAct.  But assuming that that is the position, what follows ?The  matter would then be governed by s. 65 of the  ContractAct,  which provides that when a contract becomes void,	 anyperson	who has received any advantage under such  agreementor  contract is bound to restore it or to make	compensationfor  it to the person from whom he received it.	 Under	thissection, the employer is liable to make compensation to	 theemployee for the work done by him, and that liability can beenforced  against him in spite of the fact that he has	paidthe unclaimed wages to the Board under s. 3 (1) of the	Act.We  are	 therefore  of opinion that even if  the  matter  isgoverned  by s. 56 of the Contract Act, the employer  is  nomore  discharged  than	by  the	 operation  of	the  bar  oflimitation  under s. 15 of the Wages Act, or the  provisionsof  the Limitation Act.	 In this view, it must be held	thatthe provisions of the impugned Act are unconstitutional,  inthat  they  take  away	the property  of  the  appellant  inviolation  of either Art. 19 (1) (f) or Art. 31 (2)  of	 theConstitution.    A contention was also raised on behalf of the  appellantthat even if the impugned Act did not encroach on any of theConstitutional rights of the appellant, it clearly  violatedthe  rights  of the employees in that it  deprives  them  oftheir right to wages earned by them , that it was  thereforevoid  as against them as being in contravention of  Art.  31(2),  -and being void against them, it was void against	 theappellant  as  well.  For the respondents, it  is  contendedthat the Act cannot be held to infringe Art. 31 (2) even  asregards	 the  employees, as choses in  action  equally	withmoney  are  outside  the  operation  of	 that  Article,	 andreliance  is placed on the observations already referred  toin The State of Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja			    1145Sir Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga (supra) at pages 942,	960-961 and 1015 to 1018.  Now, as the Act takes over the rightsof  the employees in respect of wages due to them even	whenthey  are  not	barred	without	 making	 any  provision	 forcompensation  of the same to them, it must at least to	thatextent	 be   held  to	be  unconstitutional,	whether	  ascontravening  Art.  19	(1)  (f)  or  Art.  31	(2)  it	  isunnecessary to decide.    It is then argued that this is an objection open only tothe employees, and that the appellant can make no  grievanceof  it.	  It  is no doubt true that a  question	 as  to	 theconstitutionality  of  a  statute can be raised	 only  by  aperson	who is aggrieved by it; but here, the statute  dealswith  rights arising out of contract, and  that	 presupposesthe existence of at least two parties with mutual rights andobligations, and it is difficult to see how when the  rightsof  one party to it are interfered with, those of the  othercan  remain  unaffected	 by  it.  Let  us  assume  that	 theappellant makes a payment to the Board under s. 3 (1) of theimpugned   Act	 on  the  footing  that	 the  law   is	 notunconstitutional  as against him.  What is there to  preventthe employee from suing to recover the same amount from	 theappellant  on the ground that the Act is unconstitutional  ?It  will  be  no  answer to that claim	to  plead  that	 theappellant  has	already paid the amount to the	Board.	 Thefact  is  that a statute which operates on a  contract	mustaffect the rights of all the parties to the contract, and ifit  is bad as regards one of them, it should be held  to  bebad  as	 regards the others as well.  It is  unnecessary  topursue	this question further, as we have held that the	 Actis unconstitutional even as regards the appellant.    It	remains	 to  deal with the contention  of  the	res-pondents that the impugned legislation is, in substance, onein  respect  of abandoned property, and that,  by  its	verynature,	 it  cannot  be held to violate the  rights  of	 anyperson	either under Art. 19 (1) (f) or Art. 31	 (2).	Thatwould  be  the	correct position if  the  character  of	 thelegislation  is what the respondents claim it to be, for  itis only a person who has some interest in property that	 cancomplain that the1146impugned legislation invades that right whether it be  underArt.  19  (1)  (f) or Art. 31 (2), and if  it  is  abandonedproperty, ex hypothesi there is no one who has any  interestin  it.	 But can the impugned Act be held to be	 legislationwith  respect  to  abandoned  property	?   To	answer	thisquestion,  it is necessary to examine the  basic  principlesunderlying  such a legislation, and ascertain whether  thoseare  the  principles  oil  which the  Act  is  framed.	 Theexpression  "  abandoned  property  " or  to  use  the	morefamiliar  term "bona vacantia " comprises properties of	 twodifferent  kinds, those which come in by escheat  and  thoseover  which  no	 one has a claim.   In	Halsbury's  Laws  ofEngland, Third Edition, Vol. 7, page 536, para. 1152, it  isstated that " the term bona vacantia is applied to things inwhich no one can claim a property and includes the residuaryestate of persons dying intestate ". There is, however, thisdistinction  between the two classes of property that  whilethe  State becomes the owner of the properties of  a  personwho  dies  intestate as his ultimate heir, it  merely  takespossession of property which is abandoned.  At -common law,abandoned  personal  property could not be  the	 subject  ofescheat.  It could only be appropriated by the Sovereign  asbona  vacantia.	 Vide Holdsworth's History of  English	Law,Second	Edition,  Vol.	7, pages  495-496.   In	 ConnecticutMutual	Life  Insurance Company v. Moore(1),  the  principlebehind	the law was stated to be that " the State may,	moreproperly, be custodian and beneficiary of abandoned propertythan  any  other person." Consistently	with  the  principlestated	above, a law relating to abandoned  property  enactsfirstly provisions for the State conserving and safeguardingfor  the benefit of the true owners property in	 respect  ofwhich  no  claim  is made for  a  specified  and  reasonableperiod,	 and secondly, for those properties vesting  in	 theState  absolutely  when	 no claim  is  made  with  referencethereto by the true owners within a time limited.    There  has	been  quite a number of	 laws  on  abandonedproperty in the American States, and their validity    (I)	  333 U.S. 541, 546; (1947) 92 L.Ed. 863, 869.			    1147has  been the subject of numerous decisions in	the  SupremeCourt  of  United  States.  In	Anderson  National  Bank  v.Luckett (1), the law related to Bank deposits.	It  providedthat if moneys in deposit had not been demanded or  operatedon, for a period of 10 years in the case of demand  depositsand 25 years in the case of non-demand deposits, they  mightbe  presumed to have been abandoned and the Banks  -were  totransfer them to the State.  Claims to the deposits might bemade to the Commissioner of Revenue, who was to determine ontheir  validity,  his decision being open to review  by	 theCourts.	  The  validity of this law was	 questioned  on	 theground that sufficient opportunity had not been given to thedepositors  to	claim the deposits, and that as	 they  couldattack	the  law  as  unconstitutional,	 the  Bank  got	  noprotection  by	payment	 to the State.	 In  repelling	thiscontention, the Supreme Court observed that the Act did	 notdeprive	 the depositors of any of their rights,	 they  beinggiven ample opportunity to establish their rights, and	thatit merely substituted the State in the place of the Bank  astheir debtor.  The Court also held that it was " within	 theConstitutional	power of the State to protect the  interestsof  depositors	from the risks which attend  long  neglectedaccounts,  by taking them into custody when they  have	beeninactive  so  long as to be presumptively  abandoned  ".  InConnecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Moore (supra),	 thelaw  was with reference to moneys payable on life  insurancepolicies,  which  had matured.	It provided  that  if  thoseamounts had remained unclaimed for a period of seven  years,then it had to be advertised by the companies in the  mannerprovided   therein,   and  if  no  claims   were   preferredthereafter,  the  amounts  were	 to be	paid  to  the  StateComptroller  for care and custody.  In holding that the	 lawwas valid, the Court observed :   "  There is ample provision for notice  to  beneficiariesand for administrative and judicial hearing of their  claimsand  payment  of same.	There is no possible injury  to	 anybeneficiary."   (1)	  321 U.S. 233, 241; (1943) 88 L Ed. 692, 701 1461148In  Standard Oil Company v. New Jersey (1), the law  relatedto  shares and unpaid dividends, and provided for the  Statetaking them over, if they remained unclaimed for a period of14  years.  There was a provision for notice to the  unknownowners by advertisement.  It was held following	 ConnecticutMutual Life  Insurance Company v. Moore (supra) that the lawwas valid.    In	the light of the above discussion, there  cannot  beany  reasonable	 doubt	that  the  impugned  Act  cannot  beregarded as one relating to abandoned property.	 The  periodof  three years mentioned in s. 2 (10) of the Act is  merelythe  period  of	 limitation mentioned in  Art.	102  of	 theLimitation  Act, and even taking into account the  class  ofpersons	 whose claims are dealt with in the Act, as  counselfor  respondents  would	 have us do, the  period  cannot  beregarded  as  adequate	for  raising  a	 presumption  as  toabandoment.   A	 more  serious	objection  to  viewing	 thelegislation  as	 one relating to abandoned  claims  is	thatthere is no provision made in the Act for investigating	 theclaims of the employees or for payment of the amounts due tothem,  if they established their claims.  The purpose  of  alegislation with respect to abandoned property being, in thefirst instance, to safeguard the property for the benefit ofthe  true  owner and the State taking it over  only  in	 theabsence	 of  such  claims, a law which	vests  the  propertyabsolutely in the State without regard to the claims of	 thetrue  owners  cannot  be  considered  as  one  relating	  toabandoned property.  This contention of the respondents mustalso be rejected.   In  the result, we are of opinion that s. 3(1) in so	 faras  it	relates	 to unpaid accumulations in  s.	 3(2)(b)  isunconstitutional and void.   We have now to deal with the question as to the  validityof  s.	3(1) and s. 3(2)(a) of the Act,	 which	require	 theemployers to hand over to the Board the fines realised	fromthe  employees.	  So  far as this  item	 is  concerned,	 theposition of the employers is wholly   (1)	  341 U.S. 428 ; (1950) 95 L.Ed. 1078,			    1149different  from what it is as regards unpaid  accumulations.Section 8 of the Wages Act deals with the question of  fineswhich could be imposed by the employer, and it provides thatthey  should be entered in a separate register, and  appliedfor  the benefit of his employees.  It is not denied by	 theappellant   that   under  this	provision  the	 fines	 areconstituted  a trust' fund, and that the employers are	baretrustees in respect of such fund.  Now, the grievance of theappellant  is  that  the Act deprives it of  its  rights  astrustees,  and vests them in the Board, and  that,  further,while the beneficiaries under s. 8 of the Wages Act are	 itsown  employees,	 under	s. 5(2) of  the	 impugned  Act	theyinclude	 otherpersons  as  well.   There  might	 have	beensubstance  in  the  complaint that the	appellant  had	beendeprived  of its rights as trustee if it bad any  beneficialinterest  in the fund.	But admittedly, it has none, and  itis  therefore  difficult to hold that there  has  been	suchsubstantial  deprivation  of property, as will	offend	Art.31(2) according to the decisions in The State of West Bengalv.  Subodh Gopal Bose and Dwarkadas Shrinivas of  Bombay  v.The  Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Co. Ltd. (supra) or	suchunreasonable  interference with rights to property, as	willinfringe  Art.	19(1)(f).  It is argued with  some  emphasisthat  in enlarging the circle of beneficiaries, the Act	 hasencroached on the rights of the employees of the  appellant.But then, the trust is the creation not of the appellant butof the Legislature, which gave the employees certain  rightswhich they did not have before, and what it can give, it canalso  take  away  or  modify, and we  do  not  see  how	 theemployers  are aggrieved by it.	 We are of opinion  that  novalid  grounds exist on which s. 3(1) and s. 3(2)(a) of	 theimpugned Act could be attacked as unconstitutional, and theymust accordingly be held to be valid.   In  the result, we hold, in modification of the order  ofthe Court below, that the provisions of the impugned Act areunconstitutional  and  void in so far as they  relate  to  "unpaid accumulations", but that they are valid as regards  "fines "; and an appropriate writ will1150issue  against	the respondents in the terms  stated  above.The  appeal  succeeds in part, but as it is  stated  that  "unpaid	accumulations  " form by far  the  most	 substantialportion of the claim, we direct the respondents to pay	halfthe costs of the appellant here and in the Court below.			       Appeal allowed in part.