PETITIONER:IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES (INDIA) PRIVATE LIMITED	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE WORKMEN(AND CONNECTED APPEAL)DATE OF JUDGMENT:14/11/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1175		  1961 SCR  (2) 349 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1964 SC1886	 (5) R	    1981 SC1829	 (100) E	    1984 SC 356	 (2,4,6,11,14,16)ACT:Industrial  Dispute--Award, if can deprive workmen  of	pre-existing  benefits--Age	 of   retirement--Fixation--Relevantconsiderations--Failure	 of  Tribunal to  consider  evidenceadduced by parties--Duty of Supreme Court.HEADNOTE:The  workmen of the Imperial Chemical Industries  at  Bombayclaimed,  firstly, twice the employee's normal rate  of	 payfor the work done on Sundays and holidays and secondly	thatall  employees	of  the company shall  not  compulsorily  beretired	 by  the company before they attain the age  of	 60.The company disputed the demands on the grounds that it	 hadpaid  Sunday  and  holiday work allowance  in  terms  of  anearlier	 award, and as no change of circumstances had  takenplace  since  the  making of the award a  revision  was	 notjustified ; as for the age of retirement as it bad fixed theretirement age at 55 for all its employees throughout India,any  revision would have repercussion in other	branches  ofthe company.The  tribunal  partly allowed the claim of the	workmen	 anddirected  the  company to give the employees  concerned	 forwork done on Sundays and holidays half a day's total  salaryand  dearness  allowance;  and	for the	 work  done  by	 theemployees on350festival holiday, a day's salary and dearness allowance, butthe  employees	would  not  be	entitled  to  a	 substitutedholiday.The Tribunal in making the distinction between work done  onSundays on the one hand and festival holidays on the  other,in effect, placed the workmen in worse position than  beforethe award with respect to the work done on festival holidaysand  deprived the workmen of their right to  a	compensatoryweekly	off or a substituted holiday, and also of a part  ofthe  benefits  to which they were entitled  under  the	pre-existing arrangement.Further	 the Tribunal without taking into consideration	 therecent trend in Bombay with regard to the age of  retirementand an important document produced by the workmen in supportthereof, which conclusively showed that in Bombay the age ofretirement was almost invariably fixed at 60 and not at	 55,fixed the age of retirement at 58 years.Held, that the Tribunal in making an award could not deprivethe  workmen of the benefits to which they were entitled  tounder the pre-existing arrangement and place them in a worseposition than before the award when the company did not wantany change in its favour.  In the instant case the allowancein  respect  of the work done by the employees	on  festivalholidays  would	 continue  to  be  in  accordance  with	 thepractice prevailing before the present dispute arose.Held, further, that in fixing the age of retirement no	hardand  fast  rule	 can  be laid down.   The  decision  on	 thequestion  always  depends  on a	 proper	 assessment  of	 therelevant factors and may conceivably vary from case to case.In  industrial adjudication it is generally recognised	thatwhere  an  employer  adopts a fair  and	 reasonable  pensionscheme	that would play an important part in fixing the	 ageof  retirement	at  a comparatively  earlier  stage.   If  aretired	 employee  can	legitimately  look  forward  to	 theprospect  of earning a pension then the	 hardship  resultingfrom early compulsory retirement is considerably mitigated :that  is  why  cases where there is a  fair  and  reasonablescheme	of pension in vogue would not be comparable or	evenrelevant in dealing with the age of retirement in a  concernwhere there is no such pension scheme.The recent trend in the Bombay area clearly appears to be tofix the age of retirement at 60.  The material facts in	 theinstant case being very similar to the facts in the case  ofthe  Dunlop Rubber Co. (India) Ltd. v. Workmen, the  age  ofretirement of workmen concerned should be raised to 60	from55.Held,  also, that the Supreme Court generally does not	liketo  interfere  with  the decision of a Tribunal,  if  it  issatisfied that the Tribunal has reached its conclusion afterconsidering the relevant evidence adduced before it; but  ifin  reaching its conclusion the Tribunal loses sight  of  animportant  document and fails to take into account  evidenceadduced	 before	 it, it becomes necessary  for	the  SupremeCourt to consider whether351it  should  interfere with the discretion exercised  by	 theTribunal or not.The Dunlop Rubber Co. (India) Ltd. v. Workmen & Ors.  [1960]2 S.C.R. 51 relied on.Guest, Keen, Williams Private Ltd. v. P. J. Sterling & Ors.,[1960] 1 S.C.R. 348 referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION.	Civil Appeals Nos.  471	 and472  of 1960.Appeals	 by  Special  Leave from the Award  dated  the	22ndDecember,  1959,  of  the Industrial  Tribunal,	 Bombay,  inReference (I.T. No. 163. of 1959).M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, S. N.  Andley,J.  B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra,  for	 theAppellant (In C.A. No. 471 and Respondent No. 1 in C. A. No.1 of 1960).C.   L.	 Dudhia and K. L. Hathi, for the Respondents (In  C.A. No. 571 of 60 and Appellants in C. A. No. 472 of 60).1960.  November 14.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-These  two cross  appeals  are(  directedagainst	 the decision of the Industrial Tribunal in  respectof two of the demands referred to it for adjudication.	Fiveindustrial  demands were made against the Imperial  ChemicalIndustries (India) Private Limited, Bombay (hereafter calledthe company), by its workmen (hereafter called the workmen),and  they were referred for industrial adjudication  by	 theGovernment  of	Bombay	under s.  10(1)	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947  (XIV of  1947).	These  demands	wereconsidered  by the Industrial Tribunal in the light  of	 theevidence  adduced  before it by the respective	parties	 anddecided	 on  the merits.  Two of the demands which  are	 thesubject	 matter of the present appeals were demands  Nos.  3and 5. By demand No. 3 the workmen claimed that for the workdone on Sundays and holidays observed by the company  cleri-cal  as	 well  as  service staff shall	be  paid  twice	 theemployee's  normal rate of pay consisting of  basic  salary,dearness allowance and other allowances if352any.   Demand  No.  5  made by	the  workmen  was  that	 allemployees  of the company shall not be compulsorily  retiredby  the company before they attain the age of 60  except  incase  of  voluntary retirement by the  employees  concerned.The company is an All India concern and has its branches  atseveral	 places	 in  India.  At	 its-  Bombay  office  1,400employees  are	engaged by the company ; out  of  these	 800employees are concerned with the present dispute; 600 out ofthem belong to the clerical cadre whereas the remaining	 200belong to the cadre of the subordinate staff.The two demands set out above were disputed by the  company.In  regard to demand No. 3 the company stated that  it	paidSunday	or  holiday work allowance in terms  of	 an  earlieraward  known  as  the Naik Award, and since  no	 change,  ofcircumstances  had taken place since the making of the	saidaward  a revision in the matter of the said payment was	 notjustified.     The   company   further	claimed	  that	 theallowance paid	by it to its employees was reasonable,	fairand  adequate.	 In  regard  to demand	No.  5	the  companypleaded that since 1950 the company had fixed the retirementage  at 55 for all its employees throughout India, and	thatany revision made in that behalf so far as the employees  inthe  present  dispute  are  concerned  would  have   seriousrepercussions in the other branches of the company.  It	 wasalso  urged that the age of retirement fixed by the  companywas fair and reasonable.  The company drew attention to	 thefact  that  it	pays  a	 generous  Provident  Fund  of	 10%contribution  from either side which does not exist in	manyothers concerns in Bombay.In  regard to demand No. 3 the Tribunal has  partly  allowedthe  claim  of the workmen and has directed the	 company  togive  to the employees concerned, for work done	 on  Sundaysand  holidays,	half of a day's total  salary  and  dearnessallowance  (calculated	by dividing the total of  the  basicwage, special allowance and dearness allowance for the monthby  30).   In regard to the work done by  the  employees  onfestival  holidays the Tribunal has purported to order	thatthe allowance in that behalf should be a day's salary and			    353dearness  allowance calculated as above, but employees	willnot  be entitled to a substituted holiday.  It is this	partof  the	 award that is challenged by the workmen,  in  theirappeal.In  regard to demand No. 5 the Tribunal has taken  the	viewthat  a	 case  had  been made out by  the  workmen  for	 therevision  of the age of retirement fixed by the company	 andit has held that it would be reasonable to fix the said	 ageof  retirement	at  58 instead of  55.	 This  direction  ischallenged  by the company in its appeal as well as  by	 theworkmen	 in  their  appeal.  The company  contends  that  nochange	should	have  been made in the	age  of	 retirement,whereas the workmen urge that the retirement age should havebeen  fixed at 60 instead of 58.  Thus Civil Appeal No.	 471of  1960  filed by the company is concerned  only  with	 thefixation of the age of retirement, whereas Civil Appeal	 No.472 of 1960 which has been filed by the workmen is concernedwith  the age of retirement as well as the direction  issuedby the Tribunal in regard to the payment of allowance to theworkmen for work done on festival holidays.In regard to the direction issued by the Tribunal in respectof  work  done on festival holidays it is obvious  that	 theimpugned direction is due to an oversight.  We have  alreadypointed	 out that whereas the workmen wanted a	revision  ofthe  practice  prevailing  in  regard  to  the	payment	  ofallowances for work done on Sundays and holidays the companywanted	the status quo to continue.  The payment  which	 thecompany	 was  making  in respect of the	 said  work  was  inaccordance  with  the Naik Award, and the company  case	 wasthat  there  was  no justification  for	 changing  the	saidpractice.  It is thus obvious that the company did not	wantany  change  in	 its  favour and to  the  detriment  of	 theworkmen.   It  was apparently not realised by  the  Tribunalthat in making a distinction between work done on Sundays onthe  one  hand	and work done on festival  holidays  on	 theother, and in making two different directions in respect  ofthe  said  two categories of work, the Tribunal's  order  inregard45354to  the	 latter category of work would have  the  effect  ofplacing the workmen in a worse position after the award thanbefore.	  The  relevant direction deprives  the	 workmen  oftheir  right to a compensatory weekly off or  a	 substitutedholiday,  and the inevitable consequence of  this  directionwould be ultimately to deprive the workmen of a part of	 thebenefits  to which they are entitled under the	pre-existingarrangement.   This  position  cannot be and  has  not	beenseriously disputed. Therefore we must uphold the plea raisedby  Mr. Dudhia on behalf of the workmen and direct  that  inrespect	 of  work  done on festival  holidays  the  practiceprevailing before the present dispute arose should continue.Then,  as  regards  the	 age  of  retirement,  the   learnedAttorney-General, for the company, has strenuously contendedthat  the  Tribunal  was in error in  changing	the  age  ofretirement  from 55 to 58.  He argues that in  dealing	withthis  question	two important facts must be borne  in  mind.The  company  is an All India concern, and it  is  of  greatimportance   that  the	terms  and  conditions	of   serviceprevailing  in the several branches of the company all	overthe country should be stabilised and made uniform as far  asis reasonably possible, and in the matter of retirement	 thecompany	 has  achieved	uniformity  by	fixing	the  age  ofretirement at 55 since 1950.  This arrangement should not bedisturbed  because  it	would inevitably upset	the  age  ofretirement,  in all other branches.  He has also  relied  onthe  fact that the general terms and conditions	 of  serviceprovided  by the company to its employees are very  liberal,and  he	 has made special reference to	the  Provident	Fundwhich  the  company  has  started for  the  benefit  of	 itsemployees.  Even otherwise, so the argument runs, it  cannotbe said that it is unreasonable to fix the age of retirementat 55.	In support of these contentions he has relied on thedecision of this Court in The Dunlop Rubber Co. (India) Ltd.v. Workmen (1).On  the other hand Mr. Dudhia contends that the decision  ofthis  Court  in	 the case of the Dunlop Company	 (1)  is  infavour of the demand made by the(1) [1960] 2 S.C.R. 51.355workmen and the Tribunal was in error in not fixing the	 ageof  retirement	at 60 applying the principles laid  down  bythis Court in the case of the Dunlop Company (1).   Besides,he  points  out	 that in dealing with the  question  on	 themerits the Tribunal has unfortunately failed to consider oneimportant  document  filed by the workmen along	 with  theirstatement  of  the,  claim (Ex.	 B).   This  document  wouldconclusively  show that in Bombay the age of  retirement  isalmost invariably fixed at 60 and not at 55.The question about the age of retirement has been consideredby  this Court in the case of Guest, Keen, Williams  PrivateLtd.  v. P. J. Sterling (2).  In that case  certain  generalconsiderations which may be relevant in determining the	 ageof  retirement	have  been dismissed.  In the  case  of	 theDunlop	Company (1) the same considerations  were  repeated,and  it was held that the decision of the Tribunal by  whichthe  age  of  retirement  was fixed  at	 60  should  not  beinterfered   with.    In  the  latter  case  some   of	 theconsiderations	on  which the learned  Attorney-General	 hasrelied were present.  The employer was an All India  concernand  the argument that changing the terms and conditions  ofservice	 in  regard to the age of retirement  in  one  placemight unsettle the uniformity and has serious  repercussionsin  other branches was urged and considered by	this  Court.It  was	 there	pointed out that  though  the  considerationrelied	upon by the employer was relevant and  material	 itseffect	had to be judged in the light of other material	 andrelevant  circumstances,  and it was added that one  of	 theimportant  material considerations in this connection  wouldbe that the age of retirement can be and often is determinedon  industry-cum-region	 basis.	 It was from this  point  ofview  that  the	 Court took into account the  fact  that  inBombay	for  some  time past there has	been  a	 progressivetendency  to  fix  the	age of	retirement  at	60,  and  ifconsistently  with the said tendency the Tribunal fixed	 theretirement  age at 60 in the case of the Dunlop Company	 (1)this  Court saw no reason to take a different view.  In	 ouropinion, in so(1) [1960] 2 S.C.R 51(2) [1960] 1 S.C.R 348.356far as the considerations on which the company relies in thepresent	 appeal were common to the considerations  urged  inthe  case  of  the Dunlop Company (1) the  decision  in	 thelatter	case  is more in favour of the workmen than  of	 thecompany.It is true that in matters of this kind this Court generallydoes  not  like	 to  interfere with  the  decisions  of	 theTribunal  if it is satisfied that the Tribunal	has  reachedits  conclusions  after considering  the  relevant  evidenceadduced before it.  There is no doubt that in fixing the ageof  retirement no hard and fast rule can be laid down.	 Thedecision  on  the question would always depend on  a  properassessment of the relevant factors and may conceivably	varyfrom  case to case; but in the present case it seems  to  usthat Mr. Dudhia is right in contending that in reaching	 itsconclusion  the	 Tribunal  has	somehow	 lost  sight  of  animportant  document  filed by the workmen along	 with  theirclaim.	 This  document	 (Ex.	B)  shows  that	 out  of  13industrial  concerns-there set out, in regard to 10 the	 ageof retirement has been fixed at 60 either by an award or  byagreement, and that in regard to the remaining 3 there is noage  of	 retirement.   The  record  shows  that	 the   factsmentioned  in  this statement were not disputed	 before	 theTribunal.  Indeed in most of the cases reference is made  toan award, and it was presumably realised by the company thatthe  awards in those respective cases had in fact fixed	 theage  of retirement at 60.  This document has not  been	con-sidered at all by the Tribunal in dealing with the  questionabout the age of retirement, and that gives strength to	 theargument  of Mr. Dudhia that this Court ought to  reconsiderthe merits of the dispute for itself.It  appears  that  the company filed a list  (Ex.   C-1)  insupport	 of  its case that the age of  retirement  had	beenfixed at 55 in 14 industrial concerns; and in reply to	thislist  the  workmen filed their own explanation	(Ex.   U-1).This  explanation  shows  that	in  some  of  the  cases  anindustrial  dispute  was actually  pending  adjudication  ordemands	 had been made by the employees to raise the age  ofretirement.  In(1) [1960] 2 S.C.R. 51.357regard	to 4 Oil Companies specified by the company  in	 itslist  (Ex.  C-1) it appears that all of them have a  pensionscheme,	  and	that  undoubtedly   makes   a	sub-stantialdifference.   It  is  generally	 recognised  in	  industrialadjudication  that  where  an employer	adopts	a  fair	 andreasonable pension scheme that would play an important	partin  fixing the age of retirement at a comparatively  earlierstage.	If a retired employee can legitimately look  forwardto  the	 prospect  of earning a pension	 then  the  hardshipresulting  from early compulsory retirement is	considerablymitigated;  that  is  why cases where there is	a  fair	 andreasonable   scheme  of	 pension  in  vogue  would  not	  becomparable  or	even  relevant in dealing with	the  age  ofretirement  in	a  concern where there is  no  such  pensionscheme.	  In regard to Godrej and Boyce there was a  disputebetween	 the parties as to the real age of retirement  fixedby the employer; similarly there was a dispute about the ageof  retirement in Brooke Bond (India) Private Limited.	 Thelearned Tribunal considered the evidence supplied by the twodocuments Ex.  C-1 and Ex.  U-1 and held that having  regardto   all  the  relevant	 circumstances	it  would   not	  beunreasonable  to fix the retiring age at 58 in	the  presentcase.	It  is true that in dealing with this  question	 theTribunal  has commenced its discussion with the	 observationthat  in a number of concerns the retirement age is 60,	 andthat  there  had been for sometime a trend to  increase	 theretirement age from 55 to upwards; but the tone and trend ofthe  discussion	 leave no room for doubt that  the  Tribunalfailed	to  take into account the evidence supplied  by	 theworkmen	 in  their document Ex.	 B filed  along	 with  theirclaim.	 This  evidence strongly suggests almost  a  uniformtendency  in Bombay to fix the age of retirement at  60	 andnot  55.  If the Tribunal had considered this  evidence	 andgiven reasons why it did not justify the workmen's claim forfixing	the  age  of retirement at 60  it  would  have	beenanother	 matter.   Since the award does not  refer  to	thisdocument and gives no reasons why the trend disclosed by thedocument  should not be adopted in the present case  it	 hasbecome	necessary for this Court to consider  that  questionfor itselfThe learned Attorney- General contends that the358industrial  concerns to which the said document Ex.  ,refersare  not  comparable to the company, and  so  no  importanceshould	be  attached  to the trend  disclosed  by  the	saiddocument.   We are not impressed by this argument.  One	 hasmerely	to look at the industrial concerns specified in	 thelist  filed  by	 the company to realise	 that  if  the	saidconcerns are comparable in the present proceedings there  isno  reason  why the concerns specified in Ex.  B  should  berejected  as  not comparable.  Besides, in the case  of	 theDunlop Company (1), as in the present case, the dispute	 wasand is between clerical and the subordinate staff and  theiremployer,  so  that  some of the  conditions  which  may  berelevant in fixing the age of retirement of factory  workersmay not necessarily apply.  As this Court pointed out in thecase  of  the  Dunlop Company (1) the recent  trend  in	 theBombay	area  clearly  appears	to be  to  fix	the  age  ofretirement  at 60.  That being so we see no reason  why	 theage  of	 retirement  of the workmen in	the  present  appealshould not be similarly fixed.	As we have already observed,if  the Tribunal had considered the uniform trend  disclosedby  Ex.	 B and had stated its reasons for not giving  effectto  that trend it would have been another matter;  we  wouldthen  have considered whether we should interfere  with	 thediscretion  exercised by the Tribunal or not.  The  Tribunalhowever	 does not appear to have considered  this  evidence.On  the whole we are satisfied that Mr. Dudhia is  right  incontending  that  the material facts in this case  are	verysimilar to the facts in the case of the Dunlop Company	(1).That  being so, we think that the age of retirement  in	 thecase  of the workmen concerned in the present appeal  shouldbe raised to 60 from 55.The  result  is Civil Appeal No. 471 of 1960  filed  by	 thecompany fails and is dismissed, whereas Civil Appeal No. 472of 1960 filed by the workmen is allowed, and the  directionsof the award under appeal are modified.	 The workmen will beentitled to their costs from the company.Appeal No. 471 dismissed.  Appeal No. 472 allowed.359