PETITIONER:GANGA RAM DAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:TEZPUR KAIBARTA CO-OPERATIVEFISHERY SOCIETY LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:29/01/1957BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  377		  1957 SCR  479ACT:Rule  12,  Assam  Fishery  Rules--Whether  ultra  vires	 andrepugnant  to s. 16 of the Assam Land Revenue Regulation,  1of 1886.HEADNOTE:Section	 16 of the Assam Land Revenue Regulation, 1 of	1886defines	 "  right of fishery " and s.  155(f)  empowers	 theProvincial  Government to make rules for " the	granting  oflicences,  or the farming of the right......... to  fish  inthe fisheries".	 The State Government accordingly framed theFishery	 Rules	and r. 12 thereof provides that	 no  fisheryshall be settled otherwise than by sale except by the  StateGovernment.  It was contended that r.	12  was ultra  viresthe Provincial Government and was repugnant to	  s.  16  ofthe Regulation.Held, that r. 12 is not ultra vires' and is not repugnant tos. 16	  of  the  Regulation.	There is nothing  in  s.  16which  indicates the principles or the policy on  which	 therules  for  the	 acquisition of fishery	 rights	 are  to  beframed.	  The whole thing is left to the discretion  of	 theState Government.Held  further,	that r. 12 specifically empowers  the  StateGovernment  to settle the fishery rights otherwise  than  bysale, e.g., by individual settlements.Nuruddin  Ahmed	 v. State of Assam, A. I. R. 1956  Assam  48overruled.State  of Assam v. Keshab Prasad Singh, (1953) S. C. R.	 865not applicable.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 374 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember 19, 1955, of the Assam High Court in Revenue AppealNo. 33(M) of 1955.  Civil Rule No. 76 of 1955.Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed and K. R. Chaudhry, for the appellant.D. N. Mukherjee, for respondent No. 1.S.   M. Lahiri, Advocate-General of Assam, and	Naunit	Lal,for respondents Nos. 2 and 3,624801957.  January 29.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI J.-This appeal with special leave' arises out of  ajudgment  of the Assam High Court in Revenue Appeal  No.  33(M) of 1955 and Civil Rule No. 76 of 1955.The  State  of	Assam, respondent No.  3,  had	settled	 theCharduar Brahmaputra Fishery with the respondent No. I for aperiod	of three years, viz., from April 1, 1954,  to  March31, 1957, at an annual zama of Rs. 19,600 Under r. 12 of theFishery	  Rules.   The	Deputy	Commissioner   of   Darrang,respondent   No.  2,  received	some  reports  against	 therespondent  No.	 1  alleging violation of  cl.	 VI  of	 theFishery	 lease and also of certain other conditions of'	 thelease.	 He obtained reports from the Sub -Deputy  Collectorand  the  Extra Assistant Commissioner in  regard  to  theseallegations and came to the conclusion that respondent No. 1had  created  under-lease in favour of certain	persons	 andcancelled  the settlement of the fishery.  It  appears	thatafter such cancellation, respondent No. 3, purporting to actagain  under  r.  12,  settled the  said  fishery  with	 theappellant with effect from May 4, 1955, and respondent No. 1was directed to give up possession thereof with effect	fromthat date.  Respondent No. 1 thereupon obtained a Rule	fromthe  Assam High Court alleging that the said settlement	 wasabsolutely  illegal and the fishery had to be  settled	pro-perly  according to the rules under which these	 settlementsare  usually made.  A Revenue Appeal was also filed  againstthe order of respondent No. 2 under rule 11 of section 1  ofthe  Fishery Rules and both the Rule and the Revenue  Appealwere heard together by theAssam High Court.The  High Court had already on August 31, 1955, delivered  ajudgment  in  Civil Rule NO. 56 of 1955, Nuruddin  Ahmed  v.State  of  Assam (1), declaring r. 12 of the  Fishery  Rules"ultra vires the State Government" and therefore invalid andunenforceable.	It followed that judgment and held that	 therespondent  No. 3 had no jurisdiction to make  a  settlementunder(1)  A.I.R. 1956 Assam 48.481r.   12 of the' Fishery Rules with the respondent No. I	 andthe  order of cancellation should be upheld on	that  groundalone.	 The  appeal  of respondent No.	 I  was	 accordinglydismissed.   In regard to the appellant also the High  Courtcame  to  the same conclusion and held that  the  settlementmade by respondent No. 3 in his favour was entirely  withoutjurisdiction.	The  Rule obtained by respondent No.  I	 wasaccordingly   made  absolute.	The  result  was  that	 thesettlements  made by respondent No. 3 with respondent No.  Iand  the appellant were both set aside and  the	 authoritieswere directed to make a fresh settlement of the fishery'  inquestion according to the existing Fishery Rules.The  State  of Assam had not obtained any  leave  to  appealagainst the decision of the High Court in Nuruddin Ahmed  v.State  of  Assam (1), and was apparently  content  with	 thedecision  that r. 12 of the Fishery Rules was  ultra  vires.The  appellant,	 however, obtained special leave  to  appealagainst the decision of the High Court -which set aside	 thesettlement  of	the Fishery made by respondent No.  3  alongwith him and impleaded the State of Assam as respondent	 No.3 along with respondent No. 1. The appellant was  interestedin  establishing that r. 12 of the Fishery Rules  was  intravires the State of Assam had acquiesced in the position thatthe  rule was ultra vires but in so far as it was  added  asrespondent No. 3 in this appeal it took up the position thatr. 12 of the Fishery Rules was intra vires, a position whichit had not so far chosen to sustain by appealing against thedecision  of  the High Court in Nuruddin Ahmed v.  State  ofAssam  (1)  or	in the present case but which  it  tried  tosupport	 as  it were by the back-door by appearing  in	thisappeal and supporting the appellant.Respondent No. 1 appears to have been in a similar quandary.If  the	 appellant gained his point and had  it	 establishedthat the rule was intra vires the settlement of the  fisheryby  respondent No. 3 with respondent No. I would  have	beenwith  jurisdiction and the cancellation by respondent No.  2would  have  been void and inoperative.	  This	relief	was,however, not(1)  A. 1. R. 1956 Assam 48.482available  to  respondent  No.	1 inasmuch  as	it  had	 notappealed against the judgment of the High Court.  Nor did itsuit  it  to adopt that position because not more  ,than  21months were left for the lease to run and at the end of thatperiod	it  would have found itself in	the  same  invidiousposition  in which it was when the allegations in regard  tothe  breach of the conditions of the fishery lease had	beenmade  against  it.   Respondent No.  1,	 therefore,  at	 thehearing	 of  the  appeal adopted the  peculiar	attitude  ofsupporting the judgment of the High Court and of  contendingthat  r. 12 of the Fishery Rules was ultra vires.  That	 wasthe  only basis on which the settlement made  by  respondentNo.  3	with  the appellant could be set at  naught  and  nofurther comment is needed on the obviously inconsistentattitude adopted by respondent No. 1.The  issue  which  was,	 therefore,  contested	between	 theappellant supported as he was by respondent No. 3, the Stateof  Assam.  and respondent No. I was as to the	intra  virescharacter  of  12  of  the    Fishery  Rules.  It  will	  beappropriate at this stage to set out the relevant provisionsof the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886 (Regulation Iof 1886), and the rules for the settlement of fisheries madeby the State of Assam thereunder:"Section 16.  Right of fishery.-The  Deputy Commissioner, with the previous sanction of	 theProvincial Government, may, by proclamation published in theprescribed manner, declare any collection of water,  runningor still,. to be a, fishery ; and no right in any fishery sodeclared shall be deemed to have been acquired by the publicor  any person, either' before or after the commencement  ofthis Regulation, except as provided in the Rules -made undersection 155;Provided  that	nothing	 in this section  shall	 affect	 anyexpress grant of a right to fish made by or on behalf of theBritish	 Government,  or any fishery-rights  acquired  by  aproprietor  before the commencement of this  Regulation,  orthe  acquisition  by  a proprietor of  such  rights  in	 anyfishery forming after the commencement of this Regulation inthis estate".483"Section 155.  Additional power to make rules.The  Provincial	 Government may, in addition  to  the  othermatters	 for which he (sic) is empowered by this  Regulationto make rules, consistent with this regulation, relating  tothe following matters:(f)  the  granting  of	licences,  or  the  farming  of	 theright..................	 to  fish  in  fisheries  proclaimedundersection 16......................    ""Rule  12 of the Fishery Rules: No fishery shall be  settledotherwise than -by sale except by the State Government.	 Theorder of settlement passed by the State Government shall  befinal:Provided that the State Government may introduce the  tendersystem	of  settlement	of fisheries in	 place	of  sale  byauction system whenever it is considered necessary."This  rule  occurs in chapter X of the	Assam  Land  RevenueManual,	 Vol.  I (6th ed.) headed " Rules for settlement  offisheries ". This chapter is divided into four sections:Section	  I-General and settlement of fisheries.Section	  11-Miscellaneous.Section	  III-Sanctuaries, andSection	  IV-Rulesfor  settlement  of  fisheries  by  tendersystem.The normal procedure for settlement of fisheries  prescribedin  r.	3  of  s. I is by auction sales	 in  regard  to	 allregistered fisheries held under leases expiring on the	lastday  of	 the  current year or which  at	 the  last  previousauction	 were  reserved for sale under r.  9.  After  makingprovision  for	the  place of sale,  condition,-,  of  sale,execution  of leases and confirmation of sale, provision  ismade  in r. 1 1 for appeal to the Assam High  Court  againstall  orders  of	 a  Deputy  Commissioner  or  Sub-DivisionalOfficer passed under the rules and it is provided that thereshall be no appeal against an order of settlement passed  bythe State Government under r. 12. Then follows r. 12 set outhereinabove which provides that no fishery shall be  settledotherwise than by sale except by the State Government and  aproviso	 is  enacted  to  this	rule  enabling,	 the   StateGovernment484to introduce the tender system of settlement of fisheries inplace  of  the	auction system	whenever  it  is  considerednecessary.  The rest of the provisions of s. I and those  ofss.   II  and III are not necessary to be set  out  for	 thepurpose	 of  this appeal but reference may be  made  to	 theprovisions  of s. IV which contains rules for settlement  offisheries  by  tender  system.	Rule 42	 provides  that	 theGovernment  may	 from  time to time select  any	 fishery  orfisheries  to be settled by tender system and  instruct	 theDeputy	Commissioner  to lease them out	 for  any  specifiedperiod and the procedure to be adopted in the Settlement  offisheries by tender system is therein provided.It will be seen from the above summary of the relevant rulesthat the normal -procedure for settlement of fisheries is byholding	 auction  sales.  Power is, however,  given  to	 theState	Government  to	introduce  the	tender	 system	  ofsettlement  of	fisheries  in place of	the  auction  systemwhenever  it is considered necessary and if  the  Governmentselects	 any  fishery or fisheries to be settled  by  tendersystem	and instructs the Deputy Commissioner to lease	themout  for  any specified period acting in  exercise  of	thatpower,	s.  IV prescribes the procedure	 for  settlement  offisheries by tender system.The question, therefore, which arises for our  determinationis  whether  there  is	any power  conferred  on  the  StateGovernment by these rules to settle fisheries otherwise thanby   sale,  e.g.,  by  individual  settlements	 without   asettlement thereof by auction system or by tender system.We  May	 here  dispose of an argument which  was  urged	 oilbehalf	of Respondent No. I before us and which	 appears  tohave  found  favour with the High Court that r.	 12  of	 theFishery	 Rules which is the source of that power  was  ultravires  and  repugnant  to s. 16 of the	Assam  Land  RevenueRegulation I of 1886.  That section deals with the right  offishery and provides that the Deputy Commissioner, with 'theprevious  sanction  of	the  State  Government,	 may  by   aproclamation  declare any collection of water to be  fisheryand  no	 right in a fishery so declared shall be  deemed  tohave been acquired by the public or by any person485except	as  provided in the rules made under  s.  155.	 Theinstances  before us are not covered by the proviso  and  weshall,	therefore,  make no mention of the same.   The	onlyrelevant  enquiry  is whether there was	 any,  rule  validlyenacted	 under s. 155 which enabled the State Government  tosettle	the  fishery  otherwise than by sale  by  making  anindividual  settlement thereof with Respondent No. I or	 theappellant  in  the manner in which it was  done.   There  isabsolutely nothing in the provisions of s. 16 which would goto show what are the principles on which such rules for	 theacquisition  of fishery rights by the public or	 any  personhave  to be made nor is there anything therein	to  indicateany  policy which has to guide the State Government  in	 themaking	of  such  rules.  The whole thing  is  left  to	 thediscretion of the State Government which is empowered by  s.155,  inter alia, to make rules relating to the granting  oflicences  and the farming of the right to fish in  fisheriesproclaimed  under s. 16 consistent with the Regulation.	  Nodoubt the State Government would also be bound by such rulesand would not be entitled to make any settlement of  fisheryrights unless and until there was a rule made in that behalfunder s. 155.  It would not be open to the State  Governmentto  contend that it had absolute property in  these  fisheryrights and it was, therefore, entitled to settle them in anymanner whatever.Unless, therefore, the action of the State Government  couldbe  justified by reference to any rule made under s. 155  itwould  not  avail the appellant.   Reliance  is	 accordinglyplaced	on the provisions of r. 12 of the Fishery Rules	 andit is submitted that under that rule specific power is givento  the	 State	Government  to	settle	the  fishery  rightsotherwise  than	 by sale.  The State Government	 is  therebyinvested  with	the power to settle fishery rights  even  byindividual settlements without following the auction  systemor the tender system.  Even though this power is not  vestedin  the State Government by express provision made  in	thatbehalf,	 the context of rule 12 sufficiently  indicates	 theintention  of  the  rule-making	 authority.   After   havingprescribed the procedure by way of auction sales in486rr.1 to 11 of S. 1, a prohibition against the settlement  offishery	 rights otherwise than by sale is enacted in  r.  12except in the case of the State Government.  No	 fishery  isto be settled otherwise than by sale and that prohibition isgeneral in terms but an exception is carved out in favour ofthe State Government in terms which are only capable of	 theconstruction that the State Government shall have the  powerof  settling  fishery  rights otherwise than  by  sale.	  Nolimitation  is placed on this power which is thus vested  inthe  State  Government and if the State	 Government  is	 em-powered	 to settle fishery rights otherwise than by sale  itcan  do	 so by adopting the tender system if it	 thought  itdesirable  to  do  so or even by  entering  into  individualsettlements  if the circumstances of the case so  warranted.Apart from the adoption of the tender system in place of theauction	 system, circumstances may conceivably	arise  whereeither	by reason of the cancellation or  relinquishment  offishery	 lease before the expiration of the  period  thereofand  having regard to the situation then obtaining,  it	 maynot be feasible or desirable to sell fishery rights for	 theunexpired  portion of such a lease either by public  auctionor  by inviting tenders and the State Government may,  underthose  circumstances,  consider it desirable to	 enter	intoindividual  settlement of the fishery rights so as  to	earnfor the State as much of revenue as possible.  No fetter canbe placed on the discretion of the State Government in	thisbehalf	and the State Government would be the best judge  ofthe  situation and would be in a position to determine	whatprocedure  to  adopt  in the matter  of	 the  settlement  offishery	 rights other. wise than by sale.  There is  nothingin  the provisions of s. IV containing rules for  settlementof  fisheries by tender system which militates	against	 theabove position.We  are,  therefore,  of opinion  that	r.  12	specificallyempowers  the State Government to settle the fishery  rightsotherwise  than	 by  sale and there is no  conflict  at	 allbetween	 the  provisions  of s. 16 of  the  Assam  Land	 andRevenue	 Regulation,  I of 1886, and r. 12  of	the  FisheryRules.	The decision of this appeal turns487on  the construction of r. 12 and we fail to understand	 howthe question of the intra vires or the ultra vires characterof r. 12 at all arises.	 The whole of the argument addressedbefore	us  on behalf of respondent,.  No. I is based  on  amisconception  and  can not be sustained.  The	decision  ofthis Court in State of Assam v. Keshab Prasad Singh (1),  onwhich the learned judges of the Assam High Court  apparentlybased their judgment in Nuruddin Ahmed v. State of  Assam(1)did  not touch the present controversy and it  follows	thatthat was clearly wrong and cannot be supported.The  result, therefore, is that this appeal will be  allowedand  the  settlement of fishery rights by respondent  No.  3with the appellant declared valid and operative.   Logicallyenough	respondent No. 1 also would have been entitled to  asimilar	 relief	 but  there are various	 questions  of	factinvolved  in the determination of the question	whether	 thefishery	 lease	in  his	 favour	 was  validly  cancelled  byrespondent  No. 2. Respondent No. I moreover has  disclaimedsuch  benefits by adopting the contention that r. 12 of	 thefishery rights was ultra vires.	 We, therefore, do not thinkthat respondent No. 1 is entitled to any relief on the basisof this judgment.  Respondent No. 3, the only person vitallyinterested  in the decision of this issue will, in spite  ofits  entry having been by the back-door, be entitled to	 thebenefit	 of this judgment, an un-sought relief that it	willget  as	 a  result  of our decision on	the  main  point  incontroversy.   Under the peculiar circumstances of the	casewe feel that the proper order for costs should be that	eachparty will bear and pay its respective costs of this  appealand we do order accordingly.Appeal allowed.(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 865.(2) A.I.R. 1956 Assam 48.63488