PETITIONER:VADIVELU THEVAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MADRAS(with connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:12/04/1957BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.JAGANNADHADAS, B.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1957 AIR  614		  1957 SCR  981ACT:  Murder--Conviction   on   the	 testimony   of	  a   singlewitnesS--Propriety--Capital   sentence,	  if	appropriate-Extenuating circumstance-Indian Evidence Act (1 of 1872), s.134.HEADNOTE:  The  appellants were charged with murder and convicted  onthe  sole testimony of a witness.  The first  appellant	 wassentenced  to death and the second to five  years'  rigorousimprisonment.  it was contended for them, inter	 alia,	thatthe conviction and sentences should not be upheld because ina case involving a charge of murder the court should not, onthe  ground of prudence, convict an accused person upon	 thetestimony of a single witness, and, in any case, impose	 theextreme penalty of law.  Held,	 that the question whether in such a case the  courtcould convict him depended upon the facts and  circumstancesof  the	 case  and  unless  corroboration  was	a  statutoryrequirement,  a court could act upon such  evidence,  thoughuncorroborated,	 except	 in cases where the  nature  of	 thetestimony of the single witness itself required, as a matterof prudence, that corroboration should be insisted upon,  asin the case of a child witness, an accomplice or any  othersof an analogous character.  Where	 the court has recorded an order of  conviction	 thequestion  of sentence must be determined, not by the  volumeor character of the evidence adduced, but on a considerationof  any extenuating circumstances which could  mitigate	 theenormity of the crime.  Mohamed  Sugal Esa Mamasan Rer Alalah v. The King,  A.I.R.(1946)	P.C.  3 and Vemireddy Satyanarayan Reddy  and  threeothers	v.  The	 State	of  Hyderabad,	(1956)	S.C.R.	247,distinguished.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals  Nos.  24and 25 of 1957.  Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order datedJuly 25, 1956, of the Madras High Court in Criminal  AppealsNos.  247  & 248 of 1956 and Referred Trial No. 41  of	1956arising	 out of the judgment and order dated March 28,	1956of   the  Court	 of  Sessions,	East  Tanjore  Division	  atNagapatam, in care S.C. No. 5 of 1956.982    H. J. Umrigar and S. Subramanian, for the Appellants.    P. S. Kailasham and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.  1957.	 April 12.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby  SINHA	 J.-These two appeals by special leave, which  ariseout  of	 the  same  occurrence,	 are  directed	against	 theJudgment  and Order dated July 25, 1956, of the Madras	HighCourt, confirming the sentence of death passed by the  Courtof  Sessions, East Tanjore Division, at Nagapattinam,  unders.  302	 of  the Indian Penal  Code,  against  appellant  inCriminal   Appeal  No.	24  of	1957,  for  the	 murder	  ofKannuswami,  and  modifying  the  order	 of  conviction	 andsentence under s. 302, read with s. 109 of the Indian  PenalCode, to one under s.	 326,	Indian	 Penal	 Code,	 andreducing the sentence of imprisonment for life to one for  5years, in respect of	 the  appellant in  Criminal  AppealNo.  25 of 1957.  In the course of this Judgment,  we  shallcall the appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 24 of 1957, as the"  first appellant ", and the appellant in  Criminal  AppealNo. 25 of 1957, as the " second appellant ".  The occurrence which was the subject-matter of the chargesagainst the two appellants took place at about 11-30 p.m. onNovember 10, 1955, at Muthupet, in front of the tea stall ofKannuswami,  husband  of  Shrimati   Dhanabagyam-prosecutionwitness No. 1who will be referred to, in the course of	thisjudgment, as the " first witness ", and who is the principalwitness	 for  the prosecution, because,	 as  will  presentlyappear,	 the  prosecution  case	 and  the  convictions	 andsentences  of  the  appellants	depend	entirely  upon	 hertestimony.  The  occurrence took place in the immediate vicinity of  acinema-house in which the second show was in progress at thetime  of the alleged cold-blooded murder.  As there were  nocustomers  at that time at the tea shop run  by	 Kannuswami,his  wife  called  him for his dinner to be  served  to	 himbehind	the tea stall, as the husband and wife used to	livethere.	 Kannuswami  was  about to attend to  the  call	 fordinner when983an  old man came into the shop and asked for a cup  of	tea.When  Kannuswami  got  busy  preparing	the  tea,  the	 twoappellants  rushed  into  the  premises.   The	old  man-theintending  customer-naturally ran away, and the two  accuseddragged Kannuswami out of the shop on to the road-side;	 andthe first appellant gave him several blows on the front partof  his	 body in the region of the chest  with	an  aruval-acutting	 instrument about 2 feet long including the  handle.Kannuswami  fell  down on his back and cried out  for  help.His wife, the only other inmate of the house, tried to	cometo  his rescue by raising and putting his head into her	 lapafter  the  two	 accused  had left  him.   But	soon  after,perhaps, realising that Kannuswami was not dead as a  resultof the first blows, as deposed by the wife, both the accusedreturned.   Kannuswami's  wife who figures in court  as	 thesole  witness to the killing, placed his head on the  groundand went and stood on the steps of the tea stall.  The firstappellant  this time, made the body of Kannuswami  lie	withface  downwards and gave a number of cuts in the  region  ofthe head, the neck and back.  These injuries were such as tocause  instantaneous  death.   At the  time  of	 the  secondassault,  according  to the evidence of the  first  witness,Shunmuga  Thevar-Prosecution  Witness  No.  3,	one  of	 theproprietors  of the cinema-housecame and  remonstrated	withthe  accused  but  to  no  purpose.   After  inflicting	 theinjuries,  both	 the  accused ran  away.  According  to	 thetestimony of the first witness, it was the first  appellant,the second accused (A-2 in therecord), who inflicted cuttinginjuries  with the aruval.  The second appellant, the  firstaccused (A-1 inthe record), was standing nearby at the	timethe  cutting  injuries	were  inflicted.   There  were	 twoelectric  lights burning in the tea shop, a Panchayat  Boardlight  burning on the road, as also a light burning  on	 thepathway	 leading  to  the cinema-house.	  The  wife  of	 thedeceased,  finding her husband thus murdered, went and	toldGanapathi-Prosecution Witness No. 4--who had a tea stall  onthe other side of the road, and informed him as to what	 hadtaken place.  He asked her to lodge information of the984occurrence  at	the Police Station.  She then  went  to	 theMathupet Police Station, but found it shut.  She went to thehouse  of the Sub-Inspector of Police, who took her  to	 thePolice	Station,  and recorded her statement  as  the  firstinformation  report  (Exhibit P. 1).   After  recording	 thefirst  information report, the SubInspector came along	withthe first informant to the scene of occurrence.	 He held  aninquest early in the morning.   At the trial, the Prosecution examined, besides the widowof the murdered man (P.W. 1), P.W. 2-an assistant in the teashop  of Ganapathi Thevar, P.W.3-one of the  proprietors  ofthe  cinema-house and P.W. 4Ganapathi who kept	another	 teastall  near the cinemahouse, in support of  the	 prosecutioncase.	P.W.  2Singaram	 -testified to	the  occurrence	 andstated	that  he  had seen  Vadivelu  'Cut'  Kannuswami	 andChinniah standing by the side of Vadivelu, a few feet  away;but  he added that the accused persons were not	 those	con-cerned with the crime though they bore the same names.	 ThePublic	Prosecutor  was	 permitted  to	cross-examine	thiswitness	 who  admitted	that he knew that  the	Police	weresearching  for the accused in the dock and that he  did	 nottell  the  Police that these were not the  persons  who	 hadcommitted  the murder.	He went to the length  of  admittingthat  he did not tell anybody that the accused in  the	dockwere  not the persons who had committed the murder and	thatit was in the committal court that he stated, for the  firsttime,  that the accused persons were not concerned with	 thecrime.	He also admitted that at the time of the occurrence,lights	were burning at the place of occurrence, in the	 teashop and in the theatre.  P.W. 3, one of the proprietors  ofthe  cinema-house, when examined in court, admitted that  hehad  been  examined  by	 the  police  two  days	 after	 theoccurrence, but stated that he did not tell the Police	thathe  had seen the accused assaulting Kannuswami.	 It  appearsthat, though the record of the examination-in-chief of	thiswitness	 would	itself indicate that the  Public  Prosecutorhad,   put  questions  to  him	in  the	 nature	 of   cross-examination,  yet it is not recorded, unlike the  record  ofthe depositions985of  P.W. 2 and P.W. 4, that this witness had  been  declaredhostile	 and  the Public Prosecutor had	 been  permitted  tocross-examine him.  That appears to be a slip of the learnedSessions  Judge,  as  he had been so  treated  even  in	 thecommittal court.  The Investigating Sub-Inspector, P.W.	 14,stated, with reference to his diary, that P.W. 3 had  statedbefore	him  that  he had seen accused	No.  2	cutting	 thedeceased  on the head and neck with an aruval,	and  accusedNo.  I standing by the side of the second accused.   WitnessNo. 4 for the Prosecution-Ganapathi-who ran a tea stall nearthe  cinema-house,  about 50 to 60 feet away  from  the	 teastall  of the deceased Kannuswami, stated in court that	 thefirst  witness came to him weeping and saying that  Chinniahand Vadivelu Thevar had cut her husband, but added that	 thetwo accused in court were not those persons. Thus,  whatevermay  have  been the previous statements of  the	 prosecutionwitnesses  2 to 4, aforesaid, their evidence in	 court	doesnot  directly support the prosecution case.  The  orders  ofconviction  and sentence, as passed by the courts below,  asindicated  above, rest solely on the testimony of the  firstwitness.  It  has  been	 argued	 by the,  learned  counsel  for	 theappellants   that  the	conviction  and	 sentences  of	 theappellants  should not, be upheld because they rest  on	 thesole testimony of the first witness, particularly,  because,it  is	further argued, her testimony is not free  from	 allblemish.  In this connection, her statement in court that itwas the second accused (first appellant) who gave the numberof cut injuries with the aruval to the deceased	 Kannuswami,was  challenged	 in crossexamination.  She has	been  cross-examined  with	reference  to her  statement  (Exhibit	D-2)recorded   by  the  committing	Magistrate,  and   she	 hascategorically stated :" Accused 1 had no weapon of any kind with him.	 He did	 notgive any cut.  I have not stated in the committal court thataccused	 1  continued to cut even  after  Shanmugham  Thevarasked him not to cut." Exhibit D-2 is in these terms:127986"  Even	 while	he  was asking not to  cut,  accused  1	 wascutting.   Soon	 after, accused 1 stopped cutting  and	wentaway."  With	reference to the statement of the first witness,  asrecorded  in  Exhibit D-2, the learned	Sessions  Judge	 hasobserved  that	it  was	 a  mistake  of	 recording  by	 thecommitting  Magistrate.	  We  have  looked  into  the  whole-evidence   of	the  first  witness,  as  recorded  by	 thecommitting   Magistrate-not  printed  in  the  record,	 butsupplied to us by the learned counsel for the appellants-andin our opinion, there is no doubt that the learned  SessionsJudge  was correct in his conclusion that the  recording  bythe Magistrate is defective in the sense that accused 1	 hasbeen recorded in place of accused 2, inasmuch as, throughouther  deposition, the first witness had	consistently  statedthat  it was accused 2 who actually used the  deadly  weaponagainst	 her husband and that accused I was only aiding	 andabetting him and lending him strength by his presence.	Thatthis  conclusion is well-founded, is also  substantiated  bythe  state  of the record of the appeal in the	High  Court.Each  of  the  two  appellants in the  High  Court  filed  aseparate  Memorandum of Appeal through his own counsel.	  Inneither	 of  the Memoranda of Appeal, any  ground  has	beentaken  that  the first witness had  materially	contradictedherself	 with  reference to her previous  statement  in	 thecommittal  court.   Her	 testimony  was	 assailed  only	  as'interested,  artificial  and unnatural'.  It  is  not	evensuggested  that the learned Sessions Judge's  conclusion  inrespect	 of  the  recording  by	 the  committing  Magistrate(Exhibit  D-2)	was  not based on any  material.   When	 thematter was argued before a Bench of the High Court, there isno  indication in the judgment that any point was sought  tobe made of this alleged serious discrepancy in the statementof  the	 first	witness at different stages.   In  the	HighCourt,	it  was	 sought to be argued only that	she  was  aninterested witness though her testimony throughout had	beenconsistent,  as will appear from the following	observationsof the High Court987"  To  prove that it was the two accused that  caused  theseinjuries to the deceased, the prosecution put forth as	manyas four witnesses.  Of these four witnesses, P.Ws. 2, 3	 and4 turned hostile both in the committal court as also in	 theSessions  Court.   The only witness that  remained  constantthroughout  was P.W. I who is no other than the wife of	 thedeceased." The  same was the position with reference to  the  petitionfor  leave to appeal to this Court filed in the High  Court.It  was a joint petition on behalf of both  the	 appellants,and as many as 13 grounds had been taken.  There is not evena  suggestion  that the testimony of the first	witness	 wasvitiated  by any such discrepancy as has been sought  to  bemade out in this Court.	 It was after the High Court refusedto grant the necessary certificate that for the first  time,in  the petition for special leave to appeal, filed in	thisCourt,	the  ground is taken that the High Court  failed  toappreciate  that  the  testimony of the	 first	witness	 wasuntrustworthy  for  the reason that there  was	the  allegeddiscrepancy between her statement in the committal court andin the Court of Sessions.  Thus, it is abundantly clear thatthe finding of the learned Sessions Judge about the  mistakein  recording  the  evidence of the first  witness,  by	 thecommittal court, has not been challenged at any stage in thecourt below. The  second  ground of attack against the veracity  of	 thefirst witness is that she had stated that Shanmugham Thevar-Prosecution Witness No. 3-had also seen the first  appellantgiving	the  deadly  blows  to her  husband,  and  that	 theassailant continued giving his blows in spite of protests ofP.W.  3.  This argument proceeds upon  the  assumption	thatProsecution  Witness  No. 3 is telling the truth  and  that,therefore, his evidence effectively contradicts that of	 thefirst  witness.	  P.W.	3 was, as  indicated  above,  cross-examined  by  the Public Prosecutor with  reference  to	 hisprevious  statement before the Investigating Police  Officer(P.W.  14).  P.W. 14 has stated that before him P.W.  3	 hadstated	just the contrary Of what he stated in	court.	 Thestatements of P.W. 3 at988the  earlier  stage,  before  the  Police,  and	 later	whenexamined  in  court, may or may, not have  been	 false,	 butcertainly  both	 cannot be true.  Hence, it cannot  be	saidthat  the evidence of P.W. 3 in court was the true  version.That being so, his evidence in court is not strong enough towipe  out  the evidence of the first witness on	 the  groundthat it is contrary to what P.W. 3 had stated.	It is, thus,clear  that  none of the grounds, urged in  support  of	 thecontention  that  the  evidence	 of  the  first	 witness  isunreliable, has been made out.	On the other hand, the firstwitness, being the most important witness from the point  ofview  of  the prosecution, was put to a severe test  in	 hercross-examination.   She has frankly made admissions in	 hercross-examination,  which  throw a very lurid light  on	 thepast life of her deceased husband.  She admitted that he hadbeen transported for life for having committed a murder	 andthat after his release also, he had been sent to jail  twicefor  having  caused cut injuries to others.   If  the  firstwitness	 were  inclined to tell falsehoods or  at  least  toconceal	 her  husband's past, she could have  taken  shelterbehind failing memory or want of information not an uncommoncharacteristic	of prevaricating witnesses.   Her  evidence,read as a whole, rings quite true, and we have no hesitationin  acting upon it.  It is true that her evidence  in  courthas been sought to be contradicted by the evidence of  P.Ws.2  to 4, but the latter set of witnesses have been shown  tobe  not reliable because they appear to have made  differentstatements  at	different stages for reasons of	 their	own.Their  testimony does not inspire confidence and we  cannot,therefore, brush aside the testimony of the first witness ascompared  to the evidence of P.Ws. 2 to 4. The testimony  ofthe first witness is consistent with what &he has stated  inher  first information report at the Police Station  withoutany  avoidable	delay,	within	less than  an  hour  of	 theoccurrence.    It  cannot,  therefore,	be  said  that	 herstatement  in  court, is an afterthought, or the  result  oftutoring  by  other interested persons.	 Her  story  of	 thedouble attack, first on the-front,: and subsequently on the-back and989side  of  the victim, is also consistent  with	the  medicalevidence as deposed to by the Medical Officer-P.W. 8. It  isnot necessary to set out in detail the dozen incised gaping.wounds on the person of the deceased, which are all set	 outin extenso in the judgment of the learned Sessions Judge whohas written a very careful and satisfactory judgment. Alternatively,	 it  has  been	argued	on  behalf  of	 theappellants that it is not safe to convict the appellants  onthe  testimony of a single witness even though she  may	 nothave been demonstrated to have been a lying witness.  It hasnot  even  been claimed by counsel for the  appellants	thatthis is a rule of law.	He has only put it on the ground  ofprudence  that, ordinarily, the court should not, in a	caseinvolving a charge of murder, convict an accused person uponthe testimony of a single witness.  In this connection,	 ourattention  was drawn to the observations of their  Lordshipsof  the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the	caseof  Mohamed Sugal Esa Mamasan Rer Alalah v. The,  King	(1).In  that case, their Lordships looked for  corroboration  ofthe  testimony of a single witness in a murder case.  It  istrue that in that case, the court had to look for and  foundcorroboration  of  the testimony of the	 single	 witness  insupport	 of  the murder charge, but the	 testimony  of	thatwitness suffered from two infirmities, namely:(1)The	witness	 was a girl of about 10 or 11 years  at	 thetime of occurrence.(2)The	girl witness had not been administered oath  becausethe  Court did not consider that she was able to  understandthe nature of the oath though she was competent to testify. That was a case from Somaliland to which the provisions  ofthe Indian Evidence Act (1 of 1872) and of the Indian  OathsAct  (X of 1873), had been made applicable.   Special  leavehad been granted to appeal to His Majesty-in-Council on	 theground that the local courts had admitted and acted upon theunsworn evidence of a girl of 10 or 11 years of age.   TheirLordship  upheld  the  conviction  and	sentence  of  death,holding that the(1)  A.I.R. (1946) P.C. 3.990evidence, such as it was, was admissible.  In the course  oftheir Judgment, they made the following observations (at pp.5-6) which are pertinent to the present controversy :"  It  was also submitted on behalf of	the  appellant	thatassuming the unsworn evidence was admissible the Court couldnot  act  upon it unless it was	 corroborated.	 In  Englandwhere  provision has been made for the reception of  unswornevidence  from a child it has always been provided that	 theevidence  must be corroborated in some	material  particularimplicating the accused.  But in the Indian Act there is  nosuch  provision and the evidence is made admissible  whethercorroborated  or not.  Once there is admissible	 evidence  acourt  can  act upon it; corroboration, unless	required  bystatute, goes only to the weight and value of the  evidence.It  is	a  sound  rule	in  practice  not  to  act  on	 theuncorroborated	evidence  of  a	 child,	 whether  sworn	  orunsworn, but this is a rule of prudence and not of law."  The  decision	 of  this Court in  the	 case  of  VemireddySatyanarayan  Reddy  and  three	 others	 v.  The  State	  ofHyderabad  (1)	was  also  relied upon	in  support  of	 thecontention  that  in  a murder case  the  court	 insists  oncorroboration of the -testimony of a single witness.  In thesaid  reported	decision  of this Court, P.W.  14  has	beendescribed  as " a dhobi boy named Gopai.  " He was the	onlyperson	who had witnessed the murder and his  testimony	 hadbeen  assailed	on  the ground that he	was  an	 accomplice.Though	this  Court repelled the contention that he  was  anaccomplice, it held that his position was analogous to	thatof  an accomplice.  This Court insisted on corroboration  ofthe  testimony of the single witness not on the ground	thathis  was the only evidence on which the conviction could  bebased,	but  on	 the  ground  that  though  he	was  not  anaccomplice,  his  evidence  was	 analogous  to	that  of  anaccomplice  in	the peculiar circumstances of that  case  aswould be clear from the following observations at p. 252:(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 247.991is......  Though  he was not an accomplice, we	would  stillwant   corroboration   on  material  particulars   in	thisparticular case, as he is the only witness to the crime	 andas  it	would  be unsafe to hang four  people  on  his	soletestimony  unless we feel convinced that he is speaking	 thetruth.	 Such  corroboration need not, however,	 be  on	 thequestion  of the actual commission of the offence;  if	thiswas   the  requirement,	 then  we  would  have	 independenttestimony  on  which to -act and there would be no  need  torely  on  the evidence of one whose position  may,  in	thisparticular case, be said to be somewhat analogous to that ofan accomplice, though not exactly the same."  It  is  not  necessary specifically to  notice  the  otherdecisions of the different High Courts in India in which thecourt insisted on corroboration of the testimony of a singlewitness,  not  as a proposition of law, but in view  of	 thecircumstances  of  those cases.	 On a consideration  of	 therelevant  authorities  and  the	 provisions  of	 the  IndianEvidence  Act,	the  following propositions  may  be  safelystated as firmly established: (1) As	 a  general  rule, a court can and may	act  on	 thetestimony  of a single witness though  uncorroborated.	 Onecredible  witness  outweighs the testimony of  a  number  ofother witnesses of indifferent character. (2) Unless  corroboration  is	insisted  upon	by  statute,courts	should not insist on corroboration except  in  caseswhere  the  nature of the testimony of	the  single  witnessitself	requires as a rule of prudence,	 that  corroborationshould be insisted upon, for example in the case of a  childwitness,  or  of  a witness whose evidence  is	that  of  anaccomplice or of an analogous character. (3) Whether  corroboration  of the testimony  of  a  singlewitness	 is or is not necessary, must depend upon facts	 andcircumstances  of each case and no general rule can be	laiddown  in  a  matter  like this and  much  depends  upon	 thejudicial discretion of the Judge before whom the case comes.In  view of these considerations, we have no  hesitation  inholding that the contention that in a murder case, the courtshould insist upon plurality of witnesses, is992much too broadly stated.  Section 134 of the Indian EvidenceAct  has  categorically laid it down that  "  no  particularnumber	of witnesses shall in any case be required  for	 theproof of any fact." The legislature determined, as long	 agoas 1872, presumably after due consideration of the pros	 andcons,  that it shall not be necessary for proof or  disproofof  a fact, to call any particular number of witnesses.	  InEngland,  both	before and after the passing of	 the  IndianEvidence Act, 1872, there have been a number of statutes  asset out in Sarkar's I Law of Evidence -9th Edition, at pp. 1100 and 1 101, forbidding convictions on the testimony of  asingle witness.	 The Indian Legislature has not insisted  onlaying	down  any  such	 exceptions  to	 the  general	rulerecognized  in s. 134 quoted above.  The  section  enshrinesthe well recognized maxim that " Evidence has to be  weighedand  not  counted".   Our Legislature  has  given  statutoryrecognition  to the fact that administration of justice	 maybe  hampered if a particular number of witnesses were to  beinsisted  upon.	  It  is not seldom that a  crime  has	beencommitted in the presence of only one witness, leaving asidethose  cases  which are not of	uncommon  occurrence,  wheredetermination  of guilt depends entirely  on  circumstantialevidence.  If the Legislature were to insist upon  pluralityof witnesses, cases where the testimony of a single  witnessonly  could  be available in proof of the  crime,  would  gounpunished.  It is here that the discretion of the presidingjudge comes into play.	The matter thus must depend upon thecircumstances  of each case and the quality of the  evidenceof  the	 single	 witness whose testimony has  to  be  eitheraccepted  or rejected.	If such a testimony is found by	 thecourt to be entirely reliable, there is no legal  impedimentto the conviction of the accused person on such proof.	Evenas  the	 guilt	of an accused person may be  proved  by	 thetestimony  of a single witness, the innocence of an  accusedperson	may  be	 established on the testimony  of  a  singlewitness, even though a considerable number of witnesses	 maybe  forthcoming to testify to the truth of the case for	 theprosecution.  Hence, in our opinion, it is a sound and well-established rule of law that the993court  is  concerned  with  the quality	 and  not  with	 thequantity   of  the  evidence  necessary	 for,	proving	  ordisproving  a fact.  Generally speaking, oral  testimony  inthis  context  may  be	classified  into  three	 categories,namely:(1)  Wholly reliable.(2)  Wholly unreliable.(3)  Neither  wholly reliable nor wholly  unreliable.In	 thefirst category of proof, the court should have no difficultyin coming to its conclusion either way-it may convict or mayacquit on the testimony of a single witness, if it is  foundto  be	above  reproach	 or  suspicion	of   interestedness,incompetence  or subornation.  In the second  category,	 thecourt,	 equally  has  no  difficulty  in  coming   to	 itsconclusion.  It is in the third category of cases, that	 thecourt	has   to  be  circumspect  and	has  to	  look	 forcorroboration in material particulars by reliable testimony,direct	or  circumstantial.   There  is	 another  danger  ininsisting  on plurality of witnesses.  Irrespective  of	 thequality of the oral evidence of a single witness, if  courtswere  to  insist on plurality of witnesses in proof  of	 anyfact,  they  will be indirectly encouraging  subornation  ofwitnesses.   Situations may arise and do arise where only  asingle person is available to give evidence in support of  adisputed  fact.	 The court naturally has to weigh  carefullysuch a testimony and if it is satisfied that the evidence isreliable and free from all taints which tend to render	oraltestimony open to suspicion, it becomes its duty to act uponsuch  testimony.   The law reports contain  many  precedentswhere the court had to depend and act upon the testimony  ofa  single witness in support of the prosecution.  There	 areexceptions  to	this rule, for example, in cases  of  sexualoffences or of the testimony of an approver; both these	 arecases  in which the oral testimony is, by its  very  nature,suspect, being that of a participator in crime.	  But, wherethere are no such exceptional reasons	operating,	  itbecomes the duty of the court to convict,if it is  satisfiedthat the testimony of a single witness is entirely reliable.We  have,  therefore, no reasons to refuse to act  upon	 thetestimony of the128994first  witness,	 which	is the	only  reliable	evidence  insupport of the prosecution. Lastly,  it  was  urged that assuming that  the  court	 wasinclined to act upon the testimony of the first witness	 andto  record  a  conviction for murder as	 against  the  firstappellant,  the court should not impose the extreme  penaltyof  law and in the state of the record as it is, the  lesserpunishment provided by law should be deemed to meet the endsof justice.  We cannot accede to this line of argument.	 Thefirst  question	 which the court has to consider in  a	caselike  this, is whether the accused has been proved,  to	 thesatisfaction of the court, to have committed the crime.	  Ifthe  court is convinced about the truth of  the	 prosecutionstory,	conviction has to follow.  The question of  sentencehas  to be determined, not with reference to the  volume  orcharacter  of  the evidence adduced by	the  prosecution  insupport	 of the prosecution case, but with reference to	 thefact  whether there are any extenuating circumstances  whichcan  be said to mitigate the enormity of the crime.  If	 thecourt	is   satisfied	that  there  are   such	  mitigatingcircumstances, only then, it would be justified in  imposingthe  lesser of the two sentences provided by law.  In  otherwords,	the nature of the proof has nothing to to  with	 thecharacter  of the punishment.  The nature of the  proof	 canonly bear upon the question of conviction-whether or not theaccused has been proved to be guilty.  If the court comes tothe  conclusion that the guilt has been brought home to	 theaccused, and conviction follows, the process of proof is  atan  end.   The	question as to	what  punishment  should  beimposed is for the court to decide in all the  circumstancesof  the	 case with particular reference to  any	 extenuatingcircumstances.	 But  the  nature  of  proof,  as  we	haveindicated,   has  nothing  to  do  with	 the   question	  ofpunishment.   In  this case, there are no  such	 extenuatingcircumstances which can be legitimately urged in support  ofthe view that the lesser penalty under s. 302 of the  IndianPenal Code, should meet the ends of justice.  It was a cold-blooded murder.	 The accused came for the second995time,  determined to see that their victim did not  possiblyescape the assassins' hands.  As regards the second appellant, we need not say  anythingmore  than  that he was lucky enough  to  escape  convictionunder s. 302 of the Indian Penal Code, for the reasons givenby  the High Court, which may not bear close  scrutiny.	  Heamply	deserves  the  punishment  of  5   years'   rigorousimprisonment  under s.326 of the Indian Penal Code.For the	 reasons aforesaid, both the appeals fail andare dismissed.			    Appeals dismissed.