PETITIONER:IN RE: THE BERUBARI UNION ANDEXCHANGE OF ENCLAVES	Vs.RESPONDENT:REFERENCE UNDER ARTICLE 143(1) OFTHE CONSTITUTION OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:01/04/1959BENCH:ACT:President's Refeyence-Indo-Pakistan Agreement, 1958-Divisionof  Berubari Union and exchange of  Cooch-Behar	 Enclaves-Ifinvolve	 cession  of  territory-Implementation-Amendment  ofConstitution-Constitution of India, Arts.  1, 3, 368.HEADNOTE:As  a result of the Radcliffe Award dated August  12,  1947,Berubari  Union	 No.  12 fell within  West  Bengal  and	 wastreated as such by the Constitution which came into force onJanuary 26, 195o, and has since been governed on that basis.Certain disputes arose between India and Pakistan subsequentto the Radcliffe Award but Berubari was not in issue  beforethe Badge Commission set up by agreement between the partiesto decide those disputes.  That commission made its award onJanuary 26, 195o.  Pakistan raised the question of  Berubarifor the first time in 1952 alleging that under the RadcliffeAward  it  should form part of East Bengal and	was  wronglyincluded  in West Bengal.  On August 28, 1949, the Ruler  ofthe State of Cooch-Behar251entered	 into an agreement of merger with the Government  ofIndia  and that Government took over the  administration  ofCooch-Behar which was ultimately merged with West Bengal  onJanuary	 1, 1950, so as to form a part of it.  It was  foundthat  certain  areas which belonged to the State  of  Cooch-Behar  became enclaves in Pakistan after the partition,	 andsimilarly certain Pakistan enclaves fell in India.In  order to remove the tension and conflict caused  therebythe  Prime Ministers of India and Pakistan entered  into  anagreement,  called the Indo-Pakistan Agreement on  September10, 1958, and items 3 and 10 of that agreement provided	 fora division of Berubari Union half and half between India andPakistan  and  for an exchange of  Cooch-Behar	Enclaves  inPakistan and Pakistan Enclaves in India.Doubts	having subsequently arisen regarding  the  implemen-tation	of the said items, the President of  India  referredthe  matter  to the Supreme Court under Art. 143(1)  of	 theConstitution:Held,  that item NO. 3 of the Agreement leaves no manner  ofdoubt that the parties to it were thereby seeking to  settlethe  dispute apart from the Award, amicably, and on  ad	 hocbasis  by  dividing the territory half and half.   There  isabsolutely  no	indication in it that they were	 seeking  tointerpret  the	Award  and determine the  boundary  on	thatbasis.	 The question relating to Berubari must,  therefore,be  considered on the basis that it involves cession  of  ;1part of India's territory to Pakistan and this applies	withgreater	 force to the agreement relating to the exchange  ofthe enclaves.There  can  be	no  doubt that	the  implementation  of	 theAgreement would alter the boundary of West Bengal and affectEntry 13 in the First Schedule to the Constitution, since asa  matter  of fact Berubari was treated as a  part  of	WestBengal	and governed as such from the date of the Award	 andwas  thus comprised therein before the commencement  of	 theConstitution.	Any  argument  to the  'contrary  cannot  beaccepted.The  State of Australia v. The State of Victoria, (1911)  12C.L.R.	667  and the State of South Australia- v.  State  ofVictoria,   [1914]   A.C.  283,	  distinguished	  and	heldinapplicable.Although it may be correct to describe the preamble as a keyto the mind of the Constitution-makers, it forms no part  ofthe Constitution and cannot be regarded as the source of anysubstantive  power which the body of the Constitution  alonecan  confer on the Government, expressly or by	implication.This  is equally true of prohibitions and  limitations.	  Itwas  not, therefore, correct to say that the preamble  couldin  any way limit the power of Parliament to cede  parts  ofthe national territory.	 Nor was it correct to say that Art.1(3)(c) did so.Article	 1(3)(c)  correctly construed, confers no  power  toacquire foreign territories but merely recognises  automaticabsorption  of such territories as may be acquired by  Indiain  its sovereign right and, consequently, does not  excludeby  implication,  the  power  to  cede	national  territory.Moreover, the power to amend252the  Constitution  under Art. 368 gives the  Parliament	 thepower  to amend Art. 1(3)(c) so as to include the  power  tocede  national	territory  as  well.   It  was,	  therefore,incorrect  to  suggest	that the sovereign  State  of  Indialacked the two essential attributes of sovereignty,  namely,the power to acquire foreign territory and the power to cedenational territory, and that no process of legislation couldvalidate the Agreement in question.Although such cession of territory, which amounts in law  toa transfer of sovereignty must cause great hardship from thehuman point of view, the right of a sovereign State to do soin  the exercise of its treaty-making power and	 subject  tosuch  limitations as the Constitution may, expressly  or  bynecessary implication, impose, can never be in doubt and thequestion  as  to whether the treaty can	 be  implemented  byordinary  legislation  or by constitutional  amendment	mustdepend on the provisions of the Constitution itself.It may be assumed in construing Art. 3 that the Constitutioncontemplated  changes  of  the	territorial  limits  of	 theconstituent  States  and  there was no	guarantee  of  theirterritorial integrity.	Broadly speaking, that Article dealswith the territorial adjustment inter se of the	 ConstituentStates	of  India, and not merely  their  reorganisation  onlinguistic  or	other basis.  Article 3(c)  deals  with	 thediminution of the area of a State and it is unreasonable  tosuggest that it is wide enough to cover cession of  nationalterritory.  The true position is that the Constitution	doesnot  expressly	provide either for  acquisition	 of  foreignterritory  or forcession of national territory;	 powers	 areinherent in that behalf in every sovereign State.Consequently,  the Agreement cannot be implemented by a	 lawrelatable  to Art. 3 and legislation relatable to  Art.	 368would be inevitable.It follows, therefore, that the Parliament acting under Art.368  can  make	a  law to  give	 effect	 and  implement	 theAgreement  in  question	 covering  both	 Berubari  and	 theEnclaves or pass a law amending Art. 3 so as to cover  casesof  cession of the territory of India and thereafter make  alaw under the amended Art. 3 to implement the Agreement.JUDGMENT:ADVISORY JURISDICTION : Special Reference No. 1 of 1959.Reference by the President of India under Article 143(1)  ofthe Constitution of India on the implementation of the Indo-Pakistan  Agreement relating to Berubari Union and  Exchangeof Enclaves.The  circumstances  which  led	to  this  Reference  by	 thePresident  and the questions referred appear from  the	fulltext  of  the  Reference  dated	 April	1,  1959,  which  isreproduced below:-WHEREAS	  the  Boundary	 Commission  appointed	 under	 theChairmanship of Sir Cyril Radcliffe in253accordance  with sub-section (3) of section 3 of the  IndianIndependence Act, 1947, made an Award, hereinafter  referredto  as	"the  Radcliffe Award", a copy	whereof	 is  annexedhereto	as  Annexure 1, determining the	 boundaries  of	 theProvince  of  East Bengal and the Province  of	West  Bengalconstituted by clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 ofthe said Act;AND  WHEREAS certain boundary disputes having arisen out  ofthe  interpretation of the Radcliffe Award, the Dominion  ofIndia  and the Dominion of Pakistan set up, by agreement,  aTribunal under the Chairmanship of the Hon'ble Lord  JusticeAlgot Bagge for the adjudication and final settlement of thesaid  boundary	disputes and for  demarcating  the  boundaryaccordingly:AND  WHEREAS  the said Tribunal gave decisions on  the	saidboundary disputes, such decisions being hereinafter referredto  as "the Bagge Awards", a copy whereof is annexed  heretoas Annexure 11;AND WHEREAS, with respect to the District of Jalpaiguri, thedemarcation  of	 the boundary line between the	Province  ofWest Bengal and the Province of East Bengal is described  inparagraph  1  of  the Schedule forming	Annexure  A  to	 theRadcliffe Award as follows :-"A line shall be drawn along the boundary between the  Thanaof  Phansidew a in the District of Darjeeling and the  ThanaTetulia	 in the District of Jalpaiguri from the point  wherethat boundary meets the Province of Bihar and then along theboundary  between  the Thanas of Tetulia  and  Rajganj;	 theThanas	of Pachagar and Rajganj, and the Thanas of  Pachagarand  Jalpaiguri, and shall then continue along the  northerncorner of the Thana Debiganj to the boundary of the State ofCooch Behar.  The District of Darjeeling and so much of	 theDistrict  of  Jalpaiguri as lies north of  this	 line  shallbelong	to  West Bengal, but the Thana of  Patgram  and	 anyother portion of Jalpaiguri District which lies to the	eastor south shall belong to East Bengal";254AND  WHEREAS a further dispute arose between the  Governmentof  India  and the Government of  Pakistan  whether,  havingregard	to the above description of the boundary  line	withrespect	 to the District of Jalpaiguri, the Radcliffe  Awardassigned  the  territory  in  the  said	 District  known  asBeruibari Union No. 12 (being the territory covered by	blueparallel lines in the sector map, a copy whereof is  annexedhereto	as Annexure III) to the Province of West Bengal,  ascontended by the Government of India or it assigned a  majorportion	 of  the  said territory to  the  Province  of	EastBengal, as contended by the Government of Pakistan ;AND  WHEREAS certain other disputes also arose	between	 theGovernment of India and the Government of Pakistan regardingthe interpretation and implementation of certain other partsof  the	 Radcliffe  Award and of some  parts  of  the  BaggeAwards;AND  WHEREAS  the  problem arising  from  the  existence  ofenclaves  in Pakistan of certain territories of India  whichformed part of the territories of the former Indian State ofCooch-Behar (shown in red in the sector map, a copy  whereofis  annexed hereto as Annexure IV) and of enclaves in  Indiaof  certain  territories of Pakistan (shown in blue  in	 thesaid  sector  map) was, along with  other  border  problems,engaging  the attention of the Government of India  and	 theGovernment of Pakistan; AND WHEREAS, with a view to removing causes of tension	 andresolving  border  disputes and problems relating  to  Indo-Pakistan  border areas and establishing peaceful  conditionsalong  those areas, the Prime Minister of India, for and  onbehalf of the Government of India, and the Prime Minister ofPakistan,  for and on behalf of the Government of  Pakistan,entered into an agreement settling some of the said disputesand  problems  in  the manner set out in  the  note  jointlyrecorded  by  the  Common  wealth  Secretary,  Ministry	  ofExternal  Affairs,  Government	of India,  and	the  ForeignSecretary,  Ministry.  of Foreign Affairs  and	CommonwealthRelations, Government of Pakistan' a copy whereof is annexedhereto as Annexure V, the agreement as embodied in the said255note  being  hereinafter referred to as	 "the  Indo-PakistanAgreement";AND   WHEREAS  the  Indo-Pakistan  Agreement   settles	 theaforesaid  dispute  relating  to  the  territory  known	  asBerubari Union No. 12 in the manner specified in item (3) inparagraph   2  thereof,	 the  agreement	 relating  to	suchsettlement  being hereinafter referred to as "the  Agreementrelating to Berubari Union" ;AND   WHEREAS  the  lndo-Pakistan  Agreement   settles	 theaforesaid  problem  arising  from the  existence  of  Indianenclaves  in  Pakistan	and Pakistan enclaves  in  India  byexchange of enclaves in the manner set out in Item (10) readwith Item (3) in paragraph 2 thereof, the agreement relatingto  such exchange of enclaves being hereinafter referred  toas "the Agreement relating to Exchange of Enclaves";AND WHEREAS a doubt has arisen whether the implementation ofthe  Agreement	relating  to  Berubari	Union  requires	 anylegislative  action  either  by way of	a  suitable  law  ofParliament relatable to article 3 of the Constitution or  byway   of  a  suitable  amendment  of  the  Constitution	  inaccordance  with  the  provisions  of  article	368  of	 theConstitution or both;AND  WHEREAS  a doubt has arisen whether a suitable  law  ofParliament  relatable  to article 3 of the  Constitution  issufficient  to implement the Agreement relating to  Exchangeof Enclaves or whether, in addition or in the alternative, asuitable  amendment of the Constitution in  accordance	withthe  provisions	 of  article  368  of  the  Constitution  isnecessary for the purpose;AND  WHEREAS  there  is	 likelihood  of	 the  Constitutionalvalidity  of any action taken for the implementation of	 theAgreement  relating  to	 Berubari Union	 and  the  Agreementrelating to Exchange of Enclaves being questioned in  courtsof law, involving avoidable, and protracted litigation;AND  WHEREAS, in view of what has been hereinbefore  stated,it  appears to me that the questions of law hereinafter	 setout  have  arisen  and	are  of	 such  nature  and  of	suchimportance  that  it is expedient that the  opinion  of	 theSupreme Court of India should be obtained thereon;256Now, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred upon  meby  clause  (1)	 of  article 143  of  the  Constitution,  1,Rajendra  Prasad,  President  of  India,  hereby  refer	 thefollowing  questions  to  the Supreme  Court  of  India	 forconsideration and report thereon, namely:-"(1)Is	 any   legislative  action-  necessary	 for   the,implementation of the Agreement relating to Berubari Union ?(2) If so, is a law of Parliament relatable to article 3 ofthe  Constitution  sufficient  for  the	 purpose  or  is  anamendment of the Constitution in accordance with article 368of  the	 Constitution  necessary,  in  addition	 or  in	 thealternative ?(3)  Is	 a law of Parliament relatable to article 3  of	 theConstitution sufficient for implementation of the  Agreementrelating  to Exchange of Enclaves or is an amendment of	 theConstitution   in  accordance  with  article  368   of	 theConstitution  necessary for the purpose, in addition  or  inthe alternative ?"[Annexures omitted]1959.  December 8, 9, 10 and II.  M. C. Setalvad,  Attorney-General	 of  India,  C. K. Daphtary,  Solicitor	 General  ofIndia, H. N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor General of  India,G.  N. Joshi, R. H. Dhebar and T.. M. Sen, for the Union  ofIndia.	 It is important to note that the integrity  of	 theterritory   of	 the  States  is  not  guaranteed   by	 theConstitution  of India and Parliament is made  Supreme	evenwith  respect  to the questions relating to  the  territory.Part  1	 of the Constitution is a self-contained  code	withrespect to the territory of the Union.	The residuary powersare   vested   in  Parliament.	 The   provisions   in	 theConstitution of the United States, Australia and Canada	 areentirely different'The Prime Ministers' agreement with regard to Berubari UnionNo.  12	 does not involve any cession of territory,  but  itmerely ascertains the boundary between East Bengal and	WestBengal,	 which had been left vague by the  Radcliffe  Award.As  such, this part of the agreement can be  implemented  byexecutive257action.	 Where there is merely settlement of boundaries,  itis not a case of alienation of cession of land. The State ofSouth Australia v. State of Victoria, 12 C.L.R. 667; Penn v.Baltimore, 1 Ves.  Sen. 444; Gran-dall on Treaties, 1  Edn.,pp. 115 and 161 ; The Lessee of Lattimer et al v. Poteet, 10L.  Ed. 328.  The territories of Berubari Union No. 12	werebeing governed by West Bengal unconstitutionally and did notfall   within.	item  3	 of  the  First	 Schedule   to	 theConstitution.'	Berubari  Union	 was  administered  by	WestBengal as its own territory, though legally it was not	partof  its	 territory and it was not administered "  as  if  itformed part of West Bengal " within the meaning of item 3 ofSch.  1. The giving of a part of the Berubari Union to	EastBengal under the Prime Ministers' agreement did not  involveany  amendment	to the First Schedule to  the  Constitution.A.I.R. 1959 Cal. 506 at 517 and 518.The  executive power of the Union is co-extensive  with	 thepowers of Parliament with this limitation that the executivecannot act against the provisions of the Constitution or  ofany law made by Parliament. [1955] 2 S.C.R. 225 at  234-237.The  power of making treaties is within the sovereign  powerand  resides both in the executive and in Parliament.	Whatthe  executive can do in respect of treaties and  agreementsis part of the Governmental function.  The executive can  byentering  into	a  treaty or  agreement	 settle	 a  boundarydispute	 which	does not involve acquisition or	 cession  ofterritory.If  the agreement relating to Berubari does not amount to  amere settlement or delineation of boundary, then legislationby Parliament relatable to Art. 3 of the Constitution  wouldbe  sufficient	but,  legislation under Art.  368  would  beincompetent.  Part 1 of the Constitution is a self-containedcode  dealing with the territories of the Union.  Article  1defines	 the  territory	 of India as the  territory  of	 theStates;	 the  description of the territories of	 the  Statesdescribes  the territory of India.  Article  2	contemplatesaddition to the territories of the Union by the admission ofnew  States or new areas.  Article 3(a) contemplates in	 itslast part uniting any territory to158a  part	 of  any State and any	territory  includes  foreignterritory  that may be acquired.  Article 3(b)	contemplatesincrease in the area of any State which may be by  acquiringforeign	 territory  and	 adding it to  that  of	 the  State.Article 3(c) contemplates the diminishing of the area of anyState which may be by cession to a foreign power.  There  isno restriction or limitation placed on the words "  increase" or " decrease in clause (b) and(c) of Art. 3 and they	 arecomprehensive  enough  to include increase  or	decrease  byacquisition  of	 foreign  territory or cession	of  a  Stateterritory.  See Babulal Parate's case, [1960] 1 S.C.R.	605.No  doctrinaire approach or preconceived notions  should  beimported  in  the  interpretation of Arts. 2  and  3  of  anorganic instrument like the Constitution.  Legislation underArt.  368  of  the Constitution	 is  neither  necessary	 norproper.	 Legislation under Art. 368 would put the States  toa  disadvantage	 as  under  that Article  it  would  not  benecessary, as it would be under Art. 3, to refer the bill tothat State for expressing its views thereon.The  exchange of the Cooch-Behar enclaves does	not  involvecession	  of  territory	 and  executive	 action	  alone	  issufficient  to	implement  the agreement.   An	exchange  ofterritory  for administrative considerations as a part of  alarger	settlement does not amount to  cession.	  Oppenhiem,8th  Edn.,  p.	451, Art. 169, p. 548,	Art.  216,  p.	547;Halsbury,  Vol.	 7,  Art.  604.	  Even	if  the	 transactioninvolves  cession of territory, legislation under Art. 3  ofthe  Constitution  will	 be  sufficient	 to  implement	 theagreement.The  Union has the right to cede territory if and  when	 theoccasion  arises.   Such a right vests	in  every  SovereignState  and  can	 be  implied  even  when  not	specificallyconferred by its Constitution.	Willoughby, Vol.  1, p. 572.S.   M. Bose, Advocate-General, West Bengal, B. Sen, K.	  C.Mukherjee  and	P. K. Bose, for the State  of  West  Bengal.Under the Indian Independence Act the whole of the  districtof  Jalpaiguri was provisionally given to West	Bengal.	  Ifthe Radcliffe Award fixed the boundary line, then there	 canbe  no dispute and no necessity for the agreement.  But,  ifthe Award259did  dot fix the line and left it undetermined,	 then  underthe  Indian Independence Act, the whole of Berubari went  toWest Bengal.  The Act contemplate settlement of the boundaryby an Award and not by agreement of the Prime Ministers.  Ifthe  Award  did not settle the boundary, then the  whole  ofJalpaiguri   belonged  to  India.   The	  Prime	  Ministers'agreement  in  fact divides Berubari half and  half  withoutmaking	any attempt to clarify the Award.  It was  wrong  tosay that the agreement amounts merely to delineation of	 theboundary.   It	involves  cession  of  Indian  territory  toPakistan.   The	 Constitution gives power  only	 to  acquireforeign	 territory  and	 not to	 cede  Indian  territory  toforeign powers.	 First, it would be necessary to take actionunder Art. 368 empowering Parliament to make law for cessionof  territory  and  then legislation under  Art.  3  can  beresorted  to.  In Art. 3(a) the words " any territory "	 arenot  wide  enough to include foreign territory;	 they  applywhat  has already been acquired and has become part  of	 theUnion under Art. 1. Parliament has power only to pass law inrespect	 of  territory	over  which  it	 has   jurisdiction.Article 3 merely deals with the internal arrangement of	 theterritories of the States and does not deal with acquisitionof  foreign territory or cession of the Indian territory  toforeign powers.N.C.  Chatterjee with Janardan Sharma for  Krishna  KumarChatterjee  and Ramaprasanna Roy and with U. M. Trivedi,  D.R. Prem, Veda Vyasa, R. Thiagarajan and Ganapat Rai, for (1)the President, Bharatiya Jana Sangh, Kerala, (2)  Secretary,Jana  Sangh,  Mandi, (3) Shri Tata  Srirama  Murthy,  AkhilaBharatiya Jan. sangh, Visakhapatam, (4) Chairman,  BharatiyaJansangh,  Mangalore,  (5)  Secretary,	Bharatiya  Jansangh,Sitapur,  (6) Shri N. Thamban Nambiar,	Bharatiya  Jansangh,Thaliparambu and (7) President, Bharatiya Jansangh, Pattambi(Cochin).    The  Prime	 Ministers'  agreement	 cannot	  beimplemented  at	 all.  Indian territory cannot be  ceded  atall.  Berubari is an integral part of the Union of India andit  was and has all along been under the possession of	WestBengal since the partition of the country in 1947.  The truenature	of the Prime Ministers' agreement is that it is	 notthe260ascertainment of a boundary in accordance with the RadcliffeAward,	but  it is a pure case of cession  of  territory  toPakistan.  The case reported in The State of South Australiav.  State of Victoria, 12 C.L.R. 667, has no bearing, as  inthat  case there was no question of giving of any  territoryto  a  foreign power.  Similarly, Penn v.  Baltimore,	Ves.Sen.  444,  was	 not  concerned	 with  the  cession  of	 anyterritory.   There are certain implied prohibitions  in	 ourConstitution   and   it	 is  not  a   completely   amendableConstitution.	The  preamble to the Constitution  does	 notpermit	 the  dismemberment  of	 India	and  preserves	 theintegrity of the territory of India.  Article 4, s. 3, para.2, of the United States Constitution gives a specific  powerto  cede territory.  It does not flow necessarily  from	 theconcept	 of sovereignty that the Government must have  powerto  cede its territory. 33 L. Ed. 642; 1933 U. S. 258.	 Theexpress mention of the power of acquisition in Arts. 1 and 2excludes  the power to cede.  The maxim "  expression  uniusexclusio alterius " is applicable to statutes also.   BroomsLegal  Maxims, 10th Edn., p. 452; Craies, 5th Edn., p.	240;1951  U.  S. 914; Willoughby, Vol. 1, p.  518.	 The  IndianParliament  is	not  sovereign and  it	is  prohibited	fromchanging or dismembering or whittling down the territory  ofIndia.	[1951] S.C.R. 744, 968.	 The preamble is the key  toopen the minds of the makers. 8 E.R. 1034; A.I.R. 1956	S.C.246;  [1950] S.C.R. 1098.  In the transfer of the  areas  ofBerubari to Pakistan, the fundamental rights of thousands ofpersons	  are	involved.  The	rights	of   franchise	 andcitizenship cannot be taken away by executive action.C.B.  Agarwala	and A. G. Ratnaparkhi,	for  the  Secretary,Jalpaiguri Revolutionary Socialist Party, the Secretary, AllIndia  Forward	Bloc,  Calcutta	 and  Shri  Nirmal  Bose  ofJalpaiguri.    The  agreement  cannot  be   implemented	  byexecutive  action.  The Government is not dealing  with	 itsown  property  but with the property of	 the  States.	Evenlegislation under Art. 3 would not be sufficient.  The rightof  citizenship cannot be taken away except  by	 legislationunder  Art. 1 1. In the implementation of the agreement	 thefundamental rights guaranteed by Part III of the261Constitution  are involved and the citizens of that part  ofBerubari which has to be given to Pakistan will be  deprivedof all such rights.  Citizens of India cannot be deprived oftheir  fundamental rights by legislation under Art.  3.	 Theagreement  cannot be implemented even by  legislation  underArt.  368  as there are limitations on the  power  to  amendimposed	 by  the preamble.  Such an agreement  can  only  beimplemented with the consent of the people by referendum.D.R. Prem (with the permission of the court).  Article	3deals  with the formation of new States and  alterations  ofareas,	boundaries or names of existing States as  indicatedin  the marginal note.	Article 3 makes the same  provisionsin the present Constitution as s. 290 did in the  Governmentof India Act, 1935.  Both deal with internal arrangement andnot with foreign territory.M.C. Setalvad, in reply.  The description of the boundaryline  in the Radcliffe Award is not clear and the  provisionin the agreement that the division would be horizontal	onlymeans that the division is to be by means of a line  runningeast  to  west dividing the territory half  and	 half.	 Thepreamble  cannot  control the unambiguous  language  of	 theArticles  of the Constitution.	Willoughby, Vol. 1,  p.	 62.Constitution  of the United States of America, 1952 Edn,  p.59.   The preamble is not a part of the	 Constitution.	 Thelanguage  of Art. 368 is perfectly clear and no	 limitationscan  be	 placed	 upon it on account of	the  preamble.	 Therights	of  citizenship and the fundamental  rights  do	 notaffect the power under Art. 368.  It is only by	 legislationunder Arts. 2 or 3(a) that foreign territory can be acquiredand can become part of India.  There is no reason or warrantto restrict the language or the scope of Art. 3. Clause	 (a)of Art. 3 clearly deals with foreign territory and there  isno warrant for considering clauses (b) and (c) in any  otherway  as	 not  relating to foreign  territory.	Every  otherprovision in Part 1 of the Constitution envisages two  kindsof  territory-Indian and foreign-and there is no  reason  toenvisage  only one kind of territory in cls. (b),  (c),	 (d)and (e) of Art. 3. The Court should not construe the34262provisions  in	such a manner as would make  adjustments  ofboundary difficult.  It is of the essence of sovereignty  tocede  and to acquire territory.	 Willoughby,.  Vol.  1,	 pp.575  and 576, Willis, pp. 254 to 255.  There is no  specificprovision   regarding	cession	  of   territory   in	 anyConstitution.	The  power to cede territory in	 the  UnitedStates	is  included in its treaty making power and  is	 notconferred  by  Article 4, section 3, part 2  of	 the  UnitedStates	Constitution  as  stated by Shri  N.  C.  Chatterji.Willoughby,  Vol.  I, p. 90.  Parliament has been  empoweredunder  Art. 1 1 to take away the rights of  citizenship.   Alaw  under Arts. 3 and 4 will deal with "  supplemental	 andincidental  "  provisions and may contain  provisions  underArt.  11  for taking away the rights  of  citizenship  also.Cession of territory necessarily affects the nationality andrights	of the inhabitants of the ceded territory.   Anson'sLaw  and Custom of the Constitution, 4th Edn.  Vol. 2,	Part11,  p. 141.  Fundamental rights cannot exist when there  istransfer of allegiance consequent upon cession of territory.				cur. adv. vult.1960.  March 14.  The Opinion of the Court was pronounced byGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-In accordance with the directives  issuedby  the Prime Ministers of India and Pakistan, on  September10,  1958, the Commonwealth Secretary, Ministry of  ExternalAffairs,  Government  of India and  the	 Foreign  Secretary,Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Commonwealth, Government  ofPakistan,  discussed  10 items of dispute  between  the	 twocountries and signed a joint note recording their  agreementin  respect of the said disputes and submitted it  to  theirrespective  Prime  Ministers; and with a  view	to  removingcauses of tension and resolving border disputes and problemsrelating  to  Indo-Pakistan Border  Areas  and	establishingpeaceful conditions along those areas, the Prime  Ministers,acting	on behalf of their respective  Governments,  enteredinto  an  agreement settling some of the said  disputes	 andproblems in the manner set out in the said joint note.	Thisagreement has been called the Indo-Pakistan263Agreement   and	 will  be  referred  to	 hereafter  as	 theAgreement.In the present Reference we are concerned with two items  ofthe Agreement; item 3 in paragraph 2 of the Agreement  readsas follows:-(3) Berubari Union No. 12.This  will  be	so  divided as to give	half  the  area	 to(Pakistan, the other half adjacent to India being retained byIndia.	 The  Division	of Berubari Union  No.	12  will  behorizontal,  starting from the northeast corner of  DebiganjThana.	 The division should be made in such a	manner	thatthe  Cooch-Behar  Enclaves between Pachagar  Thana  of	EastPakistan  and Berubari Union No. 12 of Jalpaiguri  Thana  ofWest Bengal will remain connected as at present with  Indianterritory  and	will  remain with  India.   The	 Cooch-BeharEnclaves lower down between Boda Thana of East Pakistan	 andBerubari  Union	 No.  12 will be exchanged  along  with	 thegeneral exchange of enclaves and will go to Pakistan."Similarly  item	 10 of the Agreement is	 as  follows:"	(10)Exchange  of  Old  Cooch-Behar	Enclaves  in  Pakistan	 andPakistan Enclaves in India without claim to compensation forextra area going to Pakistan, is agreed to."It appears that subsequently a doubt has arisen whether	 theimplementation	of the Agreement relating to Berubari  Unionrequires any legislative action either by way of a  suitablelaw of Parliament relatable to Art. 3 of the Constitution orby  way	 of  a suitable amendment  of  the  Constitution  inaccordance   with  the	provisions  of	Art.  368   of	 theConstitution  or both; and that a similar doubt	 has  arisenabout  the implementation of the Agreement relating  to	 theexchange of Enclaves; and it further appears that there is alikelihood  of	the constitutional validity  of	 any  actiontaken  for the implementation of the Agreement	relating  toBerubari  Union	 as well as the Agreement  relating  to	 theexchange  of  Enclaves	being questioned in  courts  of	 lawinvolving  avoidable and protracted litigation; that is	 whythe  President	thought	 that questions of  law	 which	havearisen are of such nature and of such importance that it  isexpedient that the264opinion	 of  the Supreme Court of India should	be  obtainedthereon;  and so, in exercise of the powers  conferred	uponhim  by	 cl.  (1) of Art. 143 of the  Constitution,  he	 hasreferred  the  following three questions to this  Court	 forconsideration and report thereon:-(1)Is	any   legislative   action   necessary	 for   theimplementation of the Agreement relating to Berubari   Union?(2)If so, is a law of Parliament relatable to article 3 ofthe  Constitution  sufficient  for  the	 purpose  or  is  anamendment of the Constitution in accordance with article 368of  the	 Constitution  necessary,  in  addition	 or  in	 thealternative ?(3)Is  a law of Parliament relatable to article 3  of  theConstitution sufficient for implementation of the  agreementrelating  to Exchange of Enclaves or is an amendment of	 theConstitution   in  accordance  with  article  368   of	 theConstitution  necessary for the purpose, in addition  or  inthe alternative ?Before	dealing	 with the questions thus  referred  to	thisCourt  it  is necessary to set out briefly  the	 historical,political  and constitutional background of  the  Agreement.On  February 20, 1947, the British Government announced	 itsintention to transfer power in British India to Indian handsby  June 1948 On June 3, 1947, the said Government issued  astatement  as to the method by which the transfer  of  powerwould be effected.  On July 18,1947, the British  Parliamentpassed	the Indian Independence Act, 1947.  This Act was  tocome  into  force  from	 August	 15,  1947,  which  was	 theappointed  day.	 As from the appointed day  two	 independentDominions,  it was declared, would be set up in India to  beknown respectively as India and Pakistan.  Section 2 of	 theAct  provided that subject to the provisions of sub-ss.	 (3)and  (4)  of  s. 2 the territories of  India  shall  be	 theterritories  under  the	 sovereignty of	 His  Majesty  whichimmediately  before  the  appointed  day  were	included  inBritish India except the territories which under sub-s.	 (2)of s. 2 were to be the territories of Pakistan.	 Section  3,sub-s. (1), provided, inter alia, that as from the appointedday  the  Province  of	Bengal	as  constituted	 under	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935, shall cease to exist265and  there  shall  be constituted in lieu  thereof  two	 newProvinces  to be known respectively as East Bengal and	WestBengal.	 Sub-section (3) of s. 3 provided, inter alia,	thatthe boundaries of the new Provinces aforesaid shall be	suchas  may be determined whether before or after the  appointedday by the award of a boundary commission appointed or to beappointed by the Governor-General in that behalf, but  untilboundaries  are	 so  determined,  (a)  the  Bengal  Districtspecified     in    the	   First    Schedule	 of	thisAct......................   shall   be	 treated   as	 theterritories which are to be comprised as the new Province ofEast Bengal; (b) the remainder of the territories  comprisedat  the date of the passing of this Act in the	Province  ofBengal shall 'be treated as the territories which are to  becomprised  in the new Province of West Bengal.	 Section  3,sub-s.	(4), provided that the expression "award" means,  inrelation  to  a	 boundary commission, the  decision  of	 theChairman  of the commission contained in his report  to	 theGovernor-General  at  the  conclusion  of  the	commission'sproceedings.   The Province of West Bengal is now  known  asthe State of West Bengal and is a part of India, whereas theProvince of East Bengal has become a part of Pakistan and isnow known as East Pakistan.Berubari  Union No. 12, with which we are concerned, has  anarea  of  8.75 sq. miles and a population of ten  to  twelvethousand  residents.  It is situated in the  police  stationJalpaiguri  in the District of Jalpaiguri, which was at	 therelevant  time	a  part	 of  Rajashahi	Division.   It	has,however,  not  been specified in the First Schedule  of	 theIndependence Act, and if the matter had to be considered  inthe  light of the said Schedule, it would be a part of	WestBengal.	  But,	as we shall presently point out,  the  FirstSchedule  to the Independence Act did not really  come	intooperation at all.On June 30, 1947, the Governor-General made an	announcementthat  it  had been decided that the Province of	 Bengal	 andPunjab	shall  be  partitioned.	  Accordingly,	a   boundarycommission was appointed, inter alia, for Bengal  consistingof four judges of High Courts and a Chairman to be appointedlater.266Sir Cyril Radcliffe was subsequently appointed as  Chairman.So  far	 as  Bengal  was concerned  the	 material  terms  ofreference  provided  that  the	boundary  commission  shoulddemarcate  the boundaries of the two parts of Bengal on	 thebasis  of ascertaining the contiguous areas of	muslims	 andnon-muslims;  in doing so it had also to take  into  accountother  factors.	  The commission then held its	enquiry	 andmade  an  award on August 12, 1947, which is  known  as	 theRadcliffe Award (hereinafter called the award).	 It would benoticed	 that  this  award was made three  days	 before	 theappointed day under the Independence Act.  The report  showsthat  the  Chairman  framed seven  basic  questions  on	 thedecision of which the demarcation of a boundary line betweenEast-West  Bengal depended.  Question No. 6 is relevant	 forour purpose; it was framed in this way:"  C. 6. Which State's claim ought to prevail in respect  ofthe  districts	of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri  in  which	 themuslim population amounted to 2.42 of the whole in the	caseof  Darjeeling	and  23.08  of the  whole  in  the  case  ofJalpaiguri but which constituted an area not in any  naturalsense  contiguous to another non-muslim area of Bengal?"  Itappears	 that the members of the commission were  unable  toarrive at an agreed view on any of the major issues, and  sothe  Chairman had no alternative but to proceed to give	 hisown'  decision.	 Accordingly the Chairman gave his  decisionon the relevant issues in these words:-"  The	demarcation  of the boundary line  is  described  indetail	in the schedule which forms annexure A to the  awardand  in	 the map attached thereto, annexure B.	The  map  isannexed	 for  the  purposes of illustration,  and  if  thereshould	be any divergence between the boundary as  describedin annexure A and as delineated on the map in annexure B thedescription in annexure A is to prevail."Paragraph 1 in annexure A is material.	It provided that " aline shall be drawn along the boundary between the Than&' ofPhansidewa  in	the  District of Darjeeling  and  the  ThanaTetulia in the District of267Jalpaiguri  from  the point where that	boundary  meets	 theProvince  of Bihar and then along the boundary	between	 theThanas	of Tetulia and Rajganj, the Thanas of  Pachagar	 andRajganj and the Thanas of Pachagar and Jalpaiguri, and shallthen  continue	along  with  northern  corner  of  Thana  ofDebiganj  to  the boundary of the State of  Cooch-Behar	 thedistrict  of  Darjeeling  and so much  of  the	district  ofJalpaiguri  as lies north of this line shall belong to	WestBengal,	 but the Thana of Patgram and any other	 portion  ofJalpaiguri  District which lies to the east or	south  shallbelong to East Bengal." Since the award came into  operationthree  days before the day appointed under the	IndependenceAct  the territorial extent of the Province of	West  Bengalnever  came  to be determined under Schedule 1 to  the	saidIndependence Act but was determined by the award.  There  isno  dispute that since the date of the award Berubari  UnionNo.  12 has in fact formed part of the State of West  Bengaland has been governed as such.Meanwhile   the	  Constituent  Assembly	 which	 began	 itsdeliberations  on  December  9,	 1946,	reassembled  as	 theSovereign  Constituent Assembly for India after midnight  ofAugust 14, 1947, and it began its historic task of  draftingthe  Constitution  for	India.	 A  drafting  committee	 wasappointed by the Constituent Assembly and the draft preparedby  it	was presented to the Assembly on November  4,  1948.After  due  deliberations  the draft  passed  through  threereadings and as finalised it was signed by the President  ofthe  Assembly and declared as passed on November  26,  1949.On  that date it became the Constitution of India;  but,  asprovided  by  Art. 394, only specified	articles  came	intoforce as from than date and the remaining provisions as fromJanuary	  26,1950,   which  day	 is  referred  to   in	 theConstitution  as  the  commencement  of	 the   Constitution.Article	 1  of the Constitution provides, inter	 alia,	thatIndia,	that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States and	thatthe  States and the territories thereof shall be the  Statesand  their territories specified in Parts A, B and C of	 theFirst Schedule.	 West Bengal was shown as one of the  Statesin Part A ; and it was provided that the268the  territory which immediately before the commencement  ofthe  Constitution  was	comprised in the  Province  of	WestBengal.	 In the light of the award Berubari Union No. 12 wastreated as a part of the Province of West Bengal and as suchhas been treated and governed on that basis.Subsequently, certain boundary disputes arose between  Indiaand  Pakistan and it was agreed between them at	 the  Inter-Dominion Conference held in New Delhi on December 14,  1948,that  a	 tribunal should beset up without delay and  in	 anycase  not later than January 31, 1949, for the	adjudicationand  final decision of the said disputes.  This tribunal  isknown as Indo-Pakistan Boundaries Disputes Tribunal, and  itwas  presided over by the Hon'ble Lord Justice Allot  Badge.This tribunal had to consider two categories of disputes  inregard to East-West Bengal but on this occasion no issue wasraised	about the Berubari Union.  In fact no reference	 wasmade to the District of Jalpaiguri at all in the proceedingsbefore	the tribunal.  The Bagge Award was made	 on  January26, 1950.It  was two years later that the question of Berubari  Unionwas raised by the Government of Pakistan for the first	timein 1952.  During the whole of this period the Berubari Unioncontinued  to be in the possession of the Indian  Union	 andwas  governed  as a part of West Bengal.  In  1952  Pakistanalleged	 that under the award Berubari Union  should  reallyhave  formed  part of East Bengal and it  had  been  wronglytreated as a part of West Bengal.  Apparently correspondencetook place between the Prime Ministers of India and Pakistanon  this subject from time to time and the dispute  remainedalive until 1958.  It was under these circumstances that thepresent	  Agreement  was  reached  between  the	 two   PrimeMinisters on September 10, 1958.  That is the background  ofthe present dispute in regard to Berubari Union No. 12.At this stage we may also refer briefly to the background ofevents	which  ultimately led to the  proposed	exchange  ofCooch-Behar  Enclaves between India and	 Pakistan.   Section290 of the Government of India260Act,  1935, had provided that His Majesty may  by  Order-in-Council	 increase  or diminish the area of any	Province  oralter  the boundary of any Province provided  the  procedureprescribed  was	 observed.   It is common  ground  that	 theGovernment  of India was authorised by the  Extra-ProvincialJurisdiction  Act  of 1947 to exercise necessary  powers  inthat   behalf.	 Subsequently  on  January  12,	 1949,	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935, was amended and s. 290A	 ands. 290B were added to it.  Section 290-A reads thus :-"  290-A.   Administration of certain Acceding States  as  aChief Commissioner's Province or as part of a Governor's  orChief Commissioner's Province:-(1)Where  full and exclusive authority,	 jurisdiction  andpowers for and in relation to governance of any Indian Stateor  any	 group	of  such  States  are  for  the	 time  beingexercisable by the Dominion Government, the Governor-Generalmay by order direct-(a)that	 the  State  or	 the  group  of	 States	 shall	beadministered in all respects as if the State or the group ofStates were a Chief Commissioner's Province ; or(b)that	 the  State  or	 the  group  of	 States	 shall	beadministered in all respects as if the State or the group ofStates formed part of a Governor's or a Chief Commissioner'sProvince specified in the Order;".Section 290-B(1) provides that the Governor-General. may  byorder direct for the administration of areas included withinthe  Governor's Province or a Chief Commissioner's  Provinceby  an Acceding State, and it prescribes that  the  accedingarea shall be administered in all respects by a	 neighboringAcceding  State as if such area formed part of	such  State,and thereupon the provisions of the Government of, India Actshall apply accordingly.After these two sections were thus added several steps	weretaken  by the Government of India for the merger  of  IndianStates with the Union of India.35270With  that object the States Merger  (Governors'  Provinces)Order,	1949,  was passed on July 27, 1949.  The  effect  ofthis  order  was that the States which had merged  with	 theProvinces were to be administered in all respects as if theyformed	part  of the absorbing Provinces.   This  order	 wasamended from time to time.  On August 28, 1949, an agreementof  merger was entered into between the Government of  Indiaand  the Ruler of the State of Cooch-Behar and in  pursuanceof  this  agreement the Government of India  took  over	 theadministration of Cooch-Behar on September 12, 1949 ; Cooch-Behar  thus became apart of the territory of India  and	 wasaccordingly included in the list of Part C States as  SerialNo.   4	  in  the  First  Schedule  to	 the   Constitution.Thereafter,  on December 31, 1949, the States  Merger  (WestBengal)	 Order, 1949, was passed.  It provided that  whereasfull and exclusive authority, jurisdiction and power for andin relation to the governance of the Indian State of  Cooch-Behar  were exercisable by the Dominion Government,  it	 wasexpedient to provide by the order made under s. 290A for theadministration	of the said State in all respects as  if  itformed part of the Province of West Bengal.  In consequence,on  January 1, 1950, the erstwhile State of Cooch-Behar	 wasmerged	with West Bengal and began to be governed as  if  itwas part of West Bengal.  As a result of this merger  Cooch-Behar  was  taken out of the list of Part C  States  in	 theFirst Schedule to the Constitution and added to West  Bengalin  the	 same Schedule, and the territorial  description  ofWest Bengal as prescribed in the First Schedule was  amendedby  the	 addition  of  the  clause  which  referred  to	 theterritories which were being administered as if they  formedpart of that Province.	In other words, after the merger  ofCooch-Behar  the Territories of West Bengal  included  thosewhich	immediately   before   the   commencement   of	 theConstitution  were comprised in the Province of West  Bengalas  well as those which were being administered as  if	theyformed	part  of  that	Province.   Subsequently  a  furtheraddition has been made to the territories of West Bengal  bythe  inclusion of Chandernagore but it is not  necessary  torefer to the said addition at this stage,271It  appears  that  certain areas which formed  part  of	 theterritories  of the former Indian State of  Cooch-Behar	 andwhich  had subsequently become a part of the territories  ofIndia  and  then of West Bengal became after  the  partitionenclaves  in Pakistan.	Similarly certain Pakistan  enclaveswere found in India.  The problem arising from the existenceof these enclaves in Pakistan and in India along with  otherborder	problems was being considered by the Governments  ofIndia  and  of Pakistan for a long time.  The  existence  ofthese enclaves of India in Pakistan and of Pakistan in Indiaworked as a constant source of tension and conflict  betweenthe two countries.  With a view to removing these causes  oftension	 and  conflict the two Prime  Ministers	 decided  tosolve  the  problem  of	 the  said  enclaves  and  establishpeaceful  conditions along the said areas.  It is with	thisobject that the exchange of enclaves was agreed upon by themand the said adjustment is described in item 10 of paragraph3  of  the Agreement.  That in brief is the  historical	 andconstitutional background of the exchange of enclaves.On behalf of the Union of India the learned Attorney-Generalhas  contended that no legislative action is  necessary	 forthe  implementation  of the Agreement relating	to  BerubariUnion as well as the exchange of enclaves.  In regard to theBerubari  Union	 he  argues  that  what	 the  Agreement	 haspurported  to do is to ascertain or to delineate  the  exactboundary  about	 which	a dispute existed  between  the	 twocountries by reason of different interpretations put by themon the relevant description contained in the award; the saidAgreement is merely the recognition or ascertainment of	 theboundary which had already been fixed and in no sense is  ita  substitution of a new boundary or the alteration  of	 theboundary  implying any alteration of the territorial  limitsof  India.   He	 emphasises that the  ascertainment  or	 thesettlement  of	the boundary in the light of  the  award  bywhich  both Governments were bound, is not an alienation  orcession of the territory of India, and according to him, if,as a result of the ascertainment of the true boundary in thelight of the award, possession of some land has had to be272yielded	 to  Pakistan  it  does not  amount  to	 cession  ofterritory;  it	is merely a mode of settling  the  boundary.The  award  had	 already settled the boundary  but  since  adispute arose between the two Governments in respect of	 thelocation  of the said boundary the dispute was	resolved  inthe  light of the directions given by the award and  in	 thelight  of the maps attached to it.  Where a dispute about  aboundary  thus arises between two States and it is  resolvedin the light of an award binding on them the agreement whichembodies the settlement of such a dispute must be treated asno more than the ascertainment of the real boundary  betweenthem  and it cannot be treated as cession or  alienation  ofterritory by one in favour of the other.  According to	thisargument  there was neither real alteration of the  boundarynor  real  diminution of territory, and there  would  be  nooccasion to make any alteration or change in the descriptionof  the territories of West Bengal in the First Schedule  tothe Constitution.It is also faintly suggested by the learned Attorney-Generalthat  the exchange of Cooch-Behar Enclaves is a part of	 thegeneral	 and broader agreement about the Berubari Union	 andin  fact it is incidental to it.  Therefore, viewed  in	 thesaid  context, even this exchange cannot be said to  involvecession of any territory.On this assumption the learned Attorney-General has  furthercontended  that the settlement and recognition of  the	trueboundary  can be effected by executive action alone, and  sothe  Agreement which has been reached between the two  PrimeMinisters can be implemented without any legislative action.In support of this argument the learned Attorney-General hasrelied	upon certain provisions of the Constitution  and  wemay at this stage briefly refer to them.Entry  14 in List 1 of the Seventh Schedule reads thus	:  "Entering into treaties and agreements with foreign countriesand  implementing  of treaties, agreements  and	 conventionswith  foreign  countries ". Article 253 occurs	in  Part  XIwhich  deals  with  relations between  the  Union  and	the,States,.  It provides273that " notwithstanding anything in the foregoing  provisionsof the said Chapter Parliament has power to make any law forthe  whole  or	any  part of  the  territory  of  India	 forimplementing  any treaty, agreement or convention  with	 anyother  country	or  countries or any decision  made  at	 anyinternational conference, association or other body ".	Thispower  is conferred on Parliament by reference to Entry	 14.Besides	 there	are three other articles in  the  same	partwhich  are relevant.  Article 245(1) empowers Parliament  tomake  laws  for the whole or any part of  the  territory  ofIndia;.	  Article  245(2)  provides  that  no  law  made  byParliament shall be deemed to be invalid on the ground	thatit  would  have	 extra-territorial  operation;	Article	 246prescribes  the subject-matter of laws which Parliament	 canmake;  and  Art. 248 provides for the  residuary  powers  oflegislation  in	 Parliament.   Article 248  lays  down	thatParliament  has	 power to make any law with respect  to	 anymatter not enumerated in the Concurrent List or State  List.There  is thus no doubt about the legislative competence  ofParliament  to	legislate  about any  treaty,  agreement  orconvention with any other country and to give effect to suchagreement or convention.It  is,	 however,  urged that in regard	 to  the  making  oftreaties  and implementing them the executive powers of	 theCentral	 Government are co-extensive and co-incidental	withthe powers of Parliament itself.  This argument is sought tobe  based  on the provisions of certain	 Articles  to  whichreference  may	be made.  Article 53(1)	 provides  that	 theexecutive  power  of  the  Union  shall	 be  vested  in	 thePresident  and shall be exercised by him either directly  orthrough	 officers subordinate to him in accordance with	 theConstitution.  Article 73 on which strong reliance is placedprescribes  the extent of the executive power of the  Union.Article 73(1) says " that subject to the provisions of	thisConstitution  the executive power of the Union shall  extend(a)  to	 the matters with respect to  which  Parliament	 haspower to make laws; and (b) to the exercise of such  rights,authority  and	jurisdiction  as  are  exercisable  by	 theGovernment  of	India by virtue of any treaty  or  agreementprovided that274the  executive power referred to in sub-cl. (a)	 shall	not,save  as expressly provided in this Constitution or  in	 anylaw made by Parliament, extend in any State to matters	withrespect	 to which the Legislature of the State has also	 thepower  to  make laws "; and Article 74 provides	 that  thereshall  be a Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister  atthe head to aid and advise the President in the exercise  ofhis functions; and Article 74(2) lays down that the questionwhether	 any,  and if so what, advice was  tendered  by	 theMinisters to the President shall not be inquired into in anycourt.	According to the learned Attorney-General the powersconferred  on the Union executive under Art.  73(1)(a)	havereference  to the powers exercisable by reference  to  Entry14,  List  1, in the Seventh Schedule,	whereas	 the  powersconferred  by  Art.  73(1)(b) are analogous  to	 the  powersconferred on the Parliament by Art. 253 of the Constitution.Indeed	the  learned Attorney-General  contended  that	thisposition  is  concluded by a decision of  this	Courtin	 RaiSahib  Ram Jawaya Kapur & Ors. v. The State of	Punjab	(1).Dealing with the question about the limits within which	 theexecutive   Government	 can  function	under	the   IndianConstitution  Chief  Justice Mukherjea,	 who  delivered	 theunanimous  decision  of the Court, has observed that  "	 thesaid  limits can be ascertained without much  difficulty  byreference  to the form of executive which  our	Constitutionhas  set up ", and has added, " that the executive  functioncomprised  both the determination of the policy as  well  ascarrying  it  into execution.  This evidently  includes	 theinitiation of legislation, maintenance of order, the  promo-tion  of  social  and economic	welfare,  the  direction  offoreign	 policy, in fact the carrying on or  supervision  ofthe  general  administration of the State ". It is  on	thisobservation  that the learned Attorney-General	has  foundedhis argument.Let  us then first consider what the Agreement in  fact	 hasdone.'	Has it really purported to determine the  boundariesin  the light of the award, or has it sought to	 settle	 thedispute amicably on an ad hoe basis by dividing the disputedterritory  half and half ?  Reading the relevant portion  ofthe Agreement it is(1)  [1955) 2 S.C.R. 225.275difficult  to escape the conclusion that the parties  to  itcame   to  the	conclusion  that  the  most  expedient	 andreasonable way to resolve the dispute would be to divide thearea  in question half and half.  There is no trace  in	 theAgreement  of  any  attempt to interpret  the  award  or  todetermine what the award really meant.	The Agreement beginswith the statement of the decision that the area in  disputewill be so divided as to give half the area to Pakistan, theother  half adjacent to India being retained by	 India.	  Inother  words, the Agreement says that, though the  whole  ofthe  area of Berubari Union No. 12 was within  India,  Indiawas  prepared to give half of it to Pakistan in a spirit  ofgive and take in order to ensure friendly relations  betweenthe  parties  and  remove causes of  tension  between  them.Having come to this decision the Agreement describes how thedecision  has  to  be carried out.   It	 provides  that	 thedivision  of the area will be horizontal starting  from	 thenortheast  corner of Debiganj Thana.  It also provides	thatthe division should' be made in such manner that the  Cooch-Behar  Enclaves between Pachagar Thana of East Pakistan	 andBerubari  Union	 No. 12 of Jalpaiguri Thana of	West  Bengalwill  remain  with  India.  This again is  a  provision	 forcarrying  out  the decision of dividing the  area  half	 andhalf.  Yet, another provision is made as to the division  ofCooch-Behar  Enclaves lower down between Boda Thana of	EastPakistan  and Berubari Union No. 12 and it is provided	thatthey  shall be exchanged along with the general exchange  ofenclaves and will go to Pakistan.  In our opinion, every oneof  the clauses in this Agreement clearly and  unambiguouslyshows that, apart from, and independently of, the award,  itwas  agreed to divide the area half and half and the  methodof  effecting  this division was specifically  indicated  bymaking four material provisions in that behalf.	 If that  beso, it is difficult to accept the argument that this part ofthe  Agreement	amounts to no more  than  ascertainment	 anddelineation of the boundaries in the light of the award.It  is	no doubt suggested by the  learned  Attorney-Generalthat an examination of the description in276annexure  A  in	 the Schedule to the award  in	relation  topolice station boundaries revealed a lacuna in it,  inasmuchas there was DO mention in it of the boundary between policestation Boda and police station Jalpaiguri; and the argumentis  that  the result of this description was  that  the	 twopoints	were specified, one on the western boundary  of	 theBerubari  Union (the extremity of the boundary	between	 theThanas	of  Pachagar and Jalpaiguri) and the other  on	its-eastern boundary (the northern corner, of the Thana of Debi.ganj  where  it meets Cooch-Behar State) without  giving  anindication as to how these boundaries were to be  connected.It  is also pointed out that the line as drawn in  the	map,annexure B , in the Schedule to the award would, if followedindependently of the description given in Schedule A in	 theannexure  to the said award, mean that almost the  whole  ofthe  Berubari  Union would have fallen in the  territory  ofEast Bengal and that was the claim made by the Government of'Pakistan,  and	 it is that claim which was settled  in	 thelight of the award.In this connection it is relevant to remember the  directionspecifically given by the Chairman in his award that the mapis annexed for the purpose of illustration and that in	caseof  any	 divergence  between the map, annexure	B,  and	 theboundary  as  described in annexure A,	the  description  inannexure A has to prevail, and so no claim could  reasonablyor validly be made for the inclusion of almost the whole  ofBerubari  Union in East Bengal on the strength of  the	linedrawn in the map.  Besides, the lacuna to which the  learnedAttorney-General refers could have been cured by taking intoaccount	 the general method adopted by the award  in  fixingthe boundaries.	 Para. graph 3 in annexure A shows that	 theline  which was fixd by the award generally proceeded  alongthe boundaries between the Thanas, and this general  outlineof the award would have assisted the decision of the disputeif  it was intended to resolve the dispute in the  light  ofthe  award.   The  line which was directed to  be  drawn  inparagraph  1  of  annexure A has " to  continue"  along	 thenorthern  corner of Thana Debi ganj to the boundary  of	 theState of Cooch-Behar, and277this  in the context may suggest that it had to continue  byreference to the boundaries of the respective Thanas.  It isprincipally   because  of  these  considerations  that	 theterritory  in  question was in the possession of  India	 forsome  years after the date of the award and no	dispute	 wasraised until 1952.We  have referred to these facts in order to emphasize	thatthe  agreement	does not appear to have been  reached  aftertaking	into  account these facts and is not  based  on	 anyconclusions based on the interpretation of the award and itseffect.	  In fact the second clause of the  Agreement  whichdirects	 that the division of Berubari Union No. 12 will  behorizontal  starting from the north-east corner of  DebiganjThana  is  not very happily worded.  The use of the  word  "horizontal  "  appears to be  slightly	inappropriate;	but,apart from it, the direction as to this horizontal method ofdivision  as well as the other directions contained  in	 theAgreement flow from the conclusion with which the  Agreementbegins that it had been decided that India should give	halfthe area to Pakistan.  We have carefully considered all	 theclauses	 in the Agreement and we are satisfied that it	doesnot purport to be, and has not been, reached as a result  ofany  interpretation of the award and its terms; it has	beenreached	 independently	of  the award and  for	reasons	 andconsiderations which appeared to the parties to be wise	 andexpedient.   Therefore,	 we cannot accede  to  the  argumenturged  by the learned Attorney-General that it does no	morethan ascertain and determine the boundaries in the light  ofthe  award.   It  is an Agreement by which  a  part  of	 theterritory  of  India  has been coded  to  Pakistan  and	 thequestion  referred to us in respect of this Agreement  must,therefore,  be	considered  on the basis  that	it  involvescession or alienation of a part of India's territory.What  is  true about the Agreement in  respect	of  BerubariUnion  No.  12	is still more emphatically  true  about	 theexchange  of  Cooch-Behar  Enclaves.   Indeed  the   learnedAttorney-General's argument that no legislation is necessaryto give effect to the Agreement in respect of this  exchangewas based on the assump36278tion  that this exchange is a part of a larger	and  broadersettlement  and so it partakes of its character.   Since  wehave  held that the Agreement in respect of  Berubari  UnionNo. 12 itself involves the cession of the territory of Indiaa  fortiori the Agreement in respect of exchange  of  Cooch-Behar Enclaves does involve the cession of Indian territory.That  is why the question about this exchange must  also  beconsidered  on the footing that a part of the  territory  ofIndia  has been ceded to Pakistan; besides it is clear	thatunlike	questions  1  and 2 the	 third	question  which	 hasreference  to  this  exchange postulates  the  necessity  oflegislation.In  this connection we may also deal with  another  argumenturged  by the learned Attorney-General.	 He  contended	thatthe  implementation of the Agreement in respect of  BerubariUnion would not necessitate any change in the First Scheduleto  the	 Constitution because, according  to  him,  BerubariUnion	was  never  legal1y  included  in  the	 territorialdescription  of West Bengal contained in the said  Schedule.We  are not impressed by this argument either.	As  we	havealready	 indicated, since the award was	 announced  BerubariUnion  has  remained  in possession of India  and  has	beenalways	treated	 as a part of West Bengal  and	governed  assuch.	In view of this factual position there should be  nodifficulty  in holding that it falls within the	 territorieswhich	immediately   before   the   commencement   of	 theConstitution were comprised in the Province 'of West Bengal.Therefore,  as	a  result  of  the  implementation  of	thisAgreement the boundaries of West Bengal would be altered andthe  content  of  Entry	 13 in the  First  Schedule  to	 theConstitution would be affected.Before	we  part with this topic we ought to  refer  to	 thedecision of the Australian High Court in The State of  SouthAustralia v. The State of Victoria (1) on which reliance hasbeen  placed by the learned Attorney-General.  In  that-casethe  boundary between the State of South Australia  and	 theState  of New South Wales was by Act 4 & 5 Will.  IV, c.  95and  the Letters Patent issued under that Act defined to  bethe 141st meridian(1)  (1911) 12 C.L.R. 667.279of  East  Longitude.   In  1847, by  the  authority  of	 theGovernors  of New South Wales and South Australia  and	withthe knowledge and approval of the Secretary of State a	linewas  located  and marked on the ground as  being  the  141stmeridian,  but it was discovered in 1869 that the said	linewas  in	 fact  about  two miles	 to  the  westward  of	thatmeridian.   The	 line  marked in  1847	had,  however,	beenproclaimed  by the respective Governors as the boundary	 andwas  the de facto boundary thenceforward.  In  dealing	withthe dispute which bad arisen in respect of the true boundarybetween	 the  two  States Griffith, C.J.,  referred  to	 thefixation of the boundary in 1847 and observed that "the realtransaction  is	 the  ascertainment of	a  fact	 by  personscompetent  to ascertain it, and a finding of fact  so  made,and  accepted  by  both, is in the nature  of  an  award  orjudgment  in rem binding upon them and all persons  claimingunder  them"  (p. 701).	 The said dispute  was	subsequentlytaken  to  the Privy Council and it was held  by  the  PrivyCouncil that "on the true construction of the Letters Patentit  was	 contemplated that the boundary line  of  the  141stmeridian  of  East  Longitude  should  be  ascertained	 andrepresented  on	 the surface of the earth so as	 to  form  aboundary  line	dividing  the  two  colonies,  and  that  ittherefore  implicitly  gave  to the  executive	of  the	 twocolonies power to do such acts as were necessary for  perma-nently fixing such boundaries " (1).  The Privy Council alsoobserved  that	"  the material facts showed  that  the	 twoGovernments made with all care a sincere effort to representas closely as was possible the theoretical boundary assignedby the Letters Patent by a practical line of demarcation  onthe earth's surface.  There is no trace of any intention  todepart from the boundary assigned, but only to reproduce it,and  as in its nature it was to have the solemn status of  aboundary of jurisdiction their Lordships have no doubt	thatit was intended by the two executives to be fixed finally asthe  statutable boundary and that in point of law it was  sofixed  ". It would thus be clear that the settlement of	 theboundaries which was held not to amount to an alienation  inthat case had been(1)[1914] A.C. 283. 309.280made  wholly  by  reference to, and in	the  light  of,	 theprovision  of the parliamentary statute to  which  referencehas already been made.	What was done in 1847 by the partieswho had authority to deal with the matter was to locate 'andmark  a line on the ground which was held to be	 the   141stmeridian  though it is true that in 1869 it  was  discoveredthat  the line so fixed was about two miles to the  westwardof  the	 meridian.  This was not a  case  where	 contractingparties	 independently	determined the line with a  view  tosettle the dispute between the two respective States.	Whatthey purported to do was to determine the line in accordancewith  the provisions of the parliamentary statute.   In	 thepresent	 case, as we have already pointed out, the  positionof  the	 Agreement  is essentially different;  it  does	 notpurport to be based on the award and has been reached  apartfrom, and independently of, it.	 Therefore, we do not  thinkthat the learned Attorney-General can derive any  assistancefrom  the  decision  in	 the case  of  The  State  of  SouthAustralia  v.  The State of Victoria (1) in support  of	 hisconstruction of the Agreement.In  view  of our conclusion that the  agreement	 amounts  tocession	 or alienation of a part of Indian territory and  isnot a mere ascertainment or determination of the boundary inthe  light  of, and by reference to, the award,	 it  is	 notnecessary  to  consider the other contention raised  by	 thelearned	 Attorney-General that it was within the  competenceof the Union executive to enter into such an Agreement,	 andthat  the Agreement can be implemented without any  legisla-tion.  It has been fairly conceded by him that this argumentproceeds  on  the  assumption  that  the  Agreement  is	  insubstance  and	fact no more than the ascertainment  or	 thedetermination of the disputed boundary already fixed by	 theaward.	 We need not, therefore, consider the merits of	 theargument  about	 the character and extent of  the  executivefunctions  and	powers	nor need we  examine  the,  questionwhether the observations made by Mukherjea, C.J. in the caseof  Rai Sahib Ram Jawaya Kapur (2) in fact lend	 support  tothe  said  argument, and if they do,  whether  the  questionshould not be reconsidered.(1) [1911] 12 C.L.R. 667.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 225.281At this stage it is necessary to consider the merits of	 therival  contention  raised by Mr. Chatterjee  before  us.  Heurges that even Parliament has no power to cede any part  ofthe  territory of India in favour of a foreign State  eitherby  ordinary  legislation or even by the  amendment  of	 theConstitution; and so, according to him, the only opinion  wecan give on the Reference is that the Agreement is void	 andcannot	be made effective even by any  legislative  process.This  extreme  contention is based on two  grounds.   It  issuggested  that	 the preamble to  the  Constitution  clearlypostulates  that  like	the democratic	republican  form  ofgovernment the entire territory of India is beyond the reachof  Parliament	and cannot be affected	either	by  ordinarylegislation or even by constitutional amendment.  The makersof  the Constitution were painfully conscious of the  tragicpartition  of the country into two parts, and so  when	theyframed	the  Constitution they were determined to  keep	 theentire	territory  of India as inviolable and  sacred.	 Thevery  first sentence in the preamble which declares  that  "We,  the  people  of  India,  having  solemnly	resolved  toconstitute  India  into a sovereign democratic	Republic  ",says  Mr.  Chatterjee,	irrevocably  postulates	 that  Indiageographically and territorially must always continue to  bedemocratic  and republican.  The other ground on which	thiscontention  is	raised	is founded on Art.  1(3)(c)  of	 theConstitution  which  contemplates that "  the  territory  ofIndia  shall  comprise	such other  territories	 as  may  beacquired  ", and it is argued that whereas the	Constitutionhas  expressly	given to the country the  power	 to  acquireotter  territories it has made no provision for	 ceding	 anypart  of  its  territory; and in such a	 case  the  rule  ofconstruction,  viz., expressio unius est  exclusio  alteriusmust apply.  In our opinion, there is no substance in  thesecontentions.There is no doubt that the declaration made by the people ofIndia in exercise of their sovereign will in the preamble tothe  Constitution is, in the words of Story, "a key to	openthe mind of the makers" which may show the general  purposesfor   which  they  made	 the  several  provisions   in	 theConstitution; but282nevertheless the preamble is not a part of the Constitution,and,  as Willoughby has observed about the preamble  to	 theAmerican  Constitution, " it has never been regarded as	 thesource of any substantive power conferred on the  Governmentof  the United States, or on any of its	 departments.	Suchpowers	embrace only those expressly granted in the body  ofthe  Constitution and such as may be implied from  those  sogranted ".What  is  true about the powers is equally  true  about	 theprohibitions  and limitations.	Besides, it is not  easy  toaccept	the assumption that the first part of  the  preamblepostulates  a  very serious limitation on one  of  the	veryimportant  attributes  of sovereignty itself.	As  we	willpoint  out later, it is universally recognised that  one  ofthe attributes of sovereignty is the power to cede parts  ofnational  territory  if necessary.  At the  highest  it	 mayperhaps	 be  arguable that if the terms used in any  of	 thearticles in the Constitution are ambiguous or are capable oftwo  meanings, in interpreting them some assistance  may  besought	 in  the  objectives  enshrined	 in  the   preamble.Therefore,  Mr. Chatterjee is not right in  contending	thatthe preamble imports any limitation on the exercise of	whatis generally regarded as a necessary and essential attributeof sovereignty.Then,  as  regards the argument that the  inclusion  of	 thepower to acquire must necessarily exclude the power to	cedeor alienate, there are two obvious answers.  Article 1(3)(c)does  not  confer  power or authority on  India	 to  acquireterritories  as	 Mr. Chatterjee assumes.  There	 can  be  nodoubt  that  under international law two  of  the  essentialattributes  of sovereignty are the power to acquire  foreignterritory as well as the power to cede national territory infavour of a foreign State.  What Art. 1(3)(c) purports to dois to make a formal provision for absorption and integrationof any foreign territories which may be acquired by India byvirtue	of its inherent right to do so.	 It maybe that	thisprovision  has	found  a place in the  Constitution  not  inpursuance  of  any  expansionist  political  philosophy	 butmainly for providing for the integration and absorption of283Indian	territories which, at the date of the  Constitution,continued  to be under the dominion of foreign	States;	 butthat  is  not the whole scope of Art.  1(3)(c).	  It  refersbroadly to all foreign territories which may be acquired  byIndia  and provides that as soon as they are  acquired	theywould form part of the territory of India.  Thus, on a	trueconstruction of Art. 1(3)(c) it is erroneous to assume	thatit  confers specific powers to acquire foreign	territories.The  other answer to the contention is provided by Art.	 368of   the  Constitution.	  That	article	 provides  for	 theprocedure   for	 the  amendment	 of  the  Constitution	 andexpressly  confers  power on Parliament in that	 behalf	 Thepower  to  amend Constitution must  inevitably	include	 thepower to amend Art. 1, and that logically would include	 thepower  to  cede national territory in favour  of  a  foreignState;	and  if	 that is so, it	 would	be  unreasonable  tocontend	 that  there is no power in the sovereign  State  ofIndia  to  cede	 its territory and that the  power  to	cedenational  territory  which  is	an  essential  attribute  ofsovereignty  is	 lacking  in the case of  India.   We  must,therefore,  reject  Mr.	 Chatterjee's  contention  that	  nolegislative process can validate the Agreement in question.What  then  is the nature of the treaty-making	power  of  asovereign  State  ? That is the next problem which  we	mustconsider  before  addressing  ourselves	 to  the   questionsreferred to us for our opinion.	 As we have already  pointedout  it	 is  an essential attribute of	sovereignty  that  asovereign  state can acquire foreign territory and  can,  incase of necessity, cede a part of its territory in favour ofa  foreign  State, and this can be done in exercise  of	 itstreaty-making  power.  Cession of national territory in	 lawamounts	 to  the  transfer  of	sovereignty  over  the	saidterritory  by  the owner-State in favour of  another  State.There can be no doubt that such cession is possible and	 in-deed  history presents several examples of such transfer  ofsovereignty.  It is true as Oppenheimer has observed that  "hardship  is  involved	in the fact that  in  all  cases  ofcession	 the  inhabitants of the territory who	remain	losetheir  old  citizenship	 and  are  handed  over	 to  so	 newsovereign whether they like it or284not" (1); and he has pointed out that "it may be possible tomitigate this hardship by stipulating an option to  emigratewithin	a  certain period in favour of	the  inhabitants  ofceded  territory  as means of averting the charge  that	 theinhabitants are handed over to a new sovereign against theirwill  " (p. 553).  But though from the human point  of	viewgreat	hardship  is  inevitably  involved  in	cession	  ofterritory by one country to the other there can be no  doubtthat a sovereign state can exercise its right to cede a partof its territory to a foreign state.  This power, it may  beadded,	is  of course subject to the limitations  which	 theConstitution  of  the  state  may  either  expressly  or  bynecessary implication impose in that behalf; in other words,the  question as to how treaties can be made by a  sovereignState  in regard to a cession of national territory and	 howtreaties  when made can be implemented would be governed  bythe  provisions in the Constitution of the country.   Statedbroadly	 the treaty-making power would have to be  exercisedin  the manner contemplated by the Constitution and  subjectto  the limitations imposed by it.  Whether the treaty	madecan   be   implemented	by  ordinary   legislation   or	  byconstitutional	amendment  will	 naturally  depend  on	 theprovisions  of the Constitution itself We  must,  therefore,now  turn  to that aspect of the problem  and  consider	 theposition under our Constitution.In  dealing  with  this	 aspect we  are	 proceeding  on	 theassumption  that some legislation is necessary to  implementthe  Agreement	in question.  It is urged on behalf  of	 theUnion of India that if any legislative action is held to  benecessary  for the implementation of the Agreement a law  ofParliament relatable to Art. 3 of the Constitution would  besufficient  for the purpose; and if that be so, there  wouldbe  no	occasion to take any action under Art.	368  of	 theConstitution.  The decision of this question will inevitablydepend	upon the construction of Art. 3 itself	The  learnedAttorney-General  has asked us to bear in mind	the  specialfeatures of the basic structure of the Consti-(1)  Oppenheim's  ,International  Law by  Lauterpacht,	Vol.1,P. 551. (8th Ed.)285tution	in construing the relevant provisions of Art. 3.  Hecontends that the basic structure of the Constitution is thesame as that of the Government of India Act, 1935, which hadfor  the  first time introduced a federal polity  in  India.Unlike	other  federations, the Federation embodied  in	 thesaid  Act  was	Dot the result of a pact  or  union  betweenseparate  and  independent communities of  States  who	cametogether for certain common purposes and surrendered a	partof   their  sovereignty.   The	constituent  units  of	 thefederation  were deliberately created and it is	 significantthat  they, unlike the units 'of other federations,  had  noorganic	  roots	  in  the  past.   Hence,  in	the   IndianConstitution, by contrast with other Federal  Constitutions,the   emphasis	on  the	 preservation  of  the	 territorialintegrity  of the constituent States is absent.	 The  makersof  the Constitution were aware of the	peculiar  conditionsunder	which,	and  the  reasons  for	which,	the   States(originally Provinces) were formed and their boundaries weredefined, and so they deliberately adopted the provisions  inArt.  3	 with  a  view	to  meet  the  possibility  of	 theredistribution of the said territories after the integrationof  the Indian States.	In fact it is well-known that  as  aresult of the States Reorganization Act, 1956 (Act XXXVII of1956),	in the place of the original 27 States and one	Areawhich were mentioned in Part D in the First Schedule to	 theConstitution, there are DOW only 14 States and 6 other Areaswhich constitute the Union territory mentioned in the  FirstSchedule.   The	 changes thus made  clearly  illustrate	 theworking	 of the peculiar and striking feature of the  IndianConstitution.	There may be some force in this	 contention.It  may, therefore, be assumed that in construing Art. 3  weshould	take  into account the fact  that  the	Constitutioncontemplated  changes  of  the	territorial  limits  of	 theconstituent  States and there was no guarantee	about  theirterritorial integrity.Part  1	 of the Constitution deals with the  Union  and	 itsterritories,  and in a sense its provisions set out a  self-contained  code in respect of the said topic.  Just as	Part11 deals with the topic of citizenship, Part 1 deals37286with the territory of India.  Art. 1 deals with the name andterritory Of India.  It reads thus :-1.(1) India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States.(2)The	States	and the territories thereof  shall  be	asspecified in the First Schedule.(3) The territory of India shall comprise-(a)  the territories of the States;(b)  the Union territories specified in the First  Schedule;and(c)  such other territories as may be acquired.Art. 1 as it now stands is the result of amendments made  bythe Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956.	 Before	 itsamendment,  Art.  1 referred to the territory of  India	 a,;comprising the territories of the States specified in  PartsA, B and C as well as the territories specified in Part D ofthe  Schedule  and  such  of the  territories  as  might  beacquired.   Then a separate provision had been made by	Art.243  in	 Part IX for the administration of  the	 territoriesspecified  in  Part D and other territories  such  as  newlyacquired  territories which were not comprised in the  FirstSchedule.   The	 Constitution Amendments of 1956  made	someimportant  changes in Art. 1. The distinction between  PartsA, B and C and territories specified in Part D was abolishedand   in  its  place  came  the	 distinction   between	 theterritories of States and the Union territories specified inthe First Schedule.  In consequence Art. 243 in Part IX	 wasdeleted.   That	 is  how  under	 the  present  Article	 theterritory  of  India  consists of  the	territories  of	 theStates, the Union territories and such other territories  asmay  be acquired.  We have already referred to Art.  1(3)(c)and  we	 have observed that it does not	 purport  to  conferpower  on India to acquire territories; it  merely  providesfor and recognises automatic absorption or assimilation intothe territory of India of territories which may be  acquiredby  India  by virtue of its inherent right  as	a  sovereignState  to acquire foreign territory.  Thus Art.	   describesIndia as a Union of States and specifies its territories.Article 2 provides that Parliament may by law admit into theUnion or establish, new States on such287terms  and conditions as it thinks fit.	 This Article  showsthat  foreign  territories  which  after  acquisition  wouldbecome	a part of the territory of India under Art.  1(3)(c)can  by	 law be admitted into the Union under Art.  2.	Suchterritories  may  be  admitted	into the  Union	 or  may  beconstituted into new States on such terms and conditions  asParliament  may think( fit; and as we shall presently  pointout  such  territories can also be dealt with by  law  underArt. 3(a) or (b).  The expression " by law " used in Arts. 2and 3 in this connection is significant.  The acquisition offoreign territory by India in exercise of its inherent rightas a sovereign State automatically makes the said  territorya  part of the territory of India.  After such territory  isthus acquired and factually made a part of the territory  ofIndia the process of law may assimilate it either under Art.2 or under Art. 3 (a) or (b).As an illustration of the procedure which can be adopted  byParliament  in	making a law for  absorbing  newly  acquiredterritory we may refer to the Chandernagore Merger Act, 1954(Act XXXVI of 1954), which was passed on September 29, 1954,and came into force as from October 2,1954.   Chandernagore,which was a French possession, was declared a free city, andin  June 1946 the French Government, in agreement  with	 theGovernment  of India, stated that it intended to  leave	 thepeople	of  the French establishments in India	a  right  topronounce  on  their  future fate  and	future	status.	  Inpursuance  of  this  declaration a referendum  was  held  inChandernagore  in 1949, and in this referendum the  citizensof  Chandernagore  voted  in favour of	the  merger  of	 theterritory  with	 India.	 Consequently, on May 2,  1950,	 thePresident  of  the  French  Republic  effected	a  de  factotransfer  of the administration of Chandernagore  to  India,and  as	 from  that date the  Government  of  India  assumedcontrol	 and jurisdiction over Chandernagore under s.  4  ofthe Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1947 (Act 47 of 1947).   Rele-vant  notification  was issued by the  Government  of  Indiaunder  the said section as a result of which certain  Indianlaws were made applicable to it.  The said notification alsoprovided that the corresponding288French	laws  would cease to apply with effect from  May  2,1950.  This was followed by the treaty of cession which	 wassigned	at  Paris  and	in  due	 course	 on  June  9,  1952,Chandernagore was transferred de to the Government of  Indiaon  the	 ratification of the said treaty.   The	 result	 wasChandernagore  ceased to be a French territory and became  apart of the territory of India; and the Foreign JurisdictionAct  was no longer applicable to it.  Article  243(1)  whichwas then in operation applied to Chandernagore as from	June9, 1952, and in exercise of the powers conferred under	Art.243(2)	the  President promulgated a regulation for  the  administration  of  Chandernagore which came into	 force	fromJune 30, 1952.	The Government of India then ascertained thewishes	of  the citizens of Chandernagore  by  appointing  acommission  of	enquiry, and on receiving  the	commission'sreport	 that  the  people  of	Chandernagore  were   almostunanimously  in	 favour	 of merging with  West	Bengal,	 theGovernment introduced in Parliament the Chandernagore MergerAct  in question.  After this Act was  passed  Chandernagoremerged with the State of West Bengal as from October 2,1954.This  Act  was	passed by Parliament under  Art.  3  of	 theConstitution.	As  a result of this Act the  boundaries  ofWest  Bengal  were altered under Art. 3(d) and by s.  4	 theFirst  Schedule to the Constitution was modified.   We	havetheir briefly referred to the history of the acquisition andabsorption of Chandernagore and its merger with West  Bengalbecause	 it significantly illustrates the operation of	Art.1(3)(c) as well as Art. 3(b) and (d) of the Constitution.That  take-,  us  to Art. 3 which deals with  the  topic  offormation of new States and alteration of areas,  boundariesor names of existing States; but before we construe Art,.  3it  would be convenient to refer to Art. 4. Article 4  readsthus4.(1) Any law referred to in article 2 or article 3 shallcontain	 such  provisions  for the amendment  of  the  FirstSchedule and the Fourth Schedule as may be necessary to giveeffect	to  the provisions of the law and may  also  containsuch  supplemental, incidental and consequential  provisions(including provisions as to representation in Parliament and289in  the Legislature or Legislatures of the State  of  Statesaffected by such law) as Parliament may deem necessary.(2)No  such  law  as aforesaid shall be deemed	to  be	anamendment  of this Constitution for the purposes of  article368.The effect of Art. 4 is that the laws relatable to Art. 2 orArt.  3 are not to be treated as  constitutional  amendmentsfor the purpose of Art. 368, which means that if legislationis  competent under Art. 3 in respect of the  Agreement,  itwould be unnecessary to invoke Art. 368.  On the other hand,it  is equally clear that if legislation in respect  of	 therelevant topic is Dot competent under Art. 3, Art. 368 wouldinevitably  apply.  The crux of the problem, therefore,	 is:Can  Parliament legislate in regard to the  Agreement  underArt. 3 ?Let  us	 now  read Art. 3. It reads  as	 follows:"Art. 3. Parliament may by law-(a)form	 a new State by separation of territory	 from  anyState or by uniting two or more States or parts of States orby uniting any territory. to a part of any State;(b)  increase the area of any State;(e)  diminish the area of any State;(d)  alter the boundaries of any State;(e)  alter the name of any State;Provided that no Bill for the purpose shall be introduced ineither	House of Parliament except on the recommendation  ofthe  President and unless, where the proposal  contained  inthe Bill affects the area, boundaries or name of any of	 theStates	the Bill has been referred by the President  to	 theLegislature  of that State for expressing its views  thereonwithin	such period as may be specified in the reference  orwithin	such further period as the President may  allow	 andthe period so specified or allowed has expired."Prima  facie  Art. 3 may appear to deal	 with  the  problemswhich  would arise on the reorganisation of the	 constituentStates	of India on linguistic or any other basis; but	thatis not the entire scope of  Art. 3. Broadly stated it  dealswith the internal adjustment inter so of the territories  ofthe constituent States of290India.	Article 3(a) enables Parliament to form a new  Stateand  this  can	be done either by  the	separation  ,if	 theterritory  from any State, or by uniting two or more  Statesor parts of States, or by uniting any territory to a part ofany  State.   There can be no doubt that  foreign  territorywhich  after acquisition becomes a part of the territory  ofIndia under Art.. 1(3)(c) is included in the last clause  ofArt.   3(a)   and  that	 such  territory  may'	 after	 itsacquisition,  be  absorbed  in the new State  which  may  beformed	under  Art.  3(a).  Thus Art. 3(a)  deals  with	 theproblem	 of the formation of a new State and  indicates	 themodes by which a new State can be formed.-Article	 3(b) provides that a law may be passed to  increasethe  area of any State.	 This increase may be incidental  tothe reorganisation of States in which case what is added  toone  State under Art. 3(b) may have been taken out from	 theare&  of  another State.  The increase in the  area  of	 anyState  contemplated by Art.-3(b) may also be the  result  ofadding to any State any part' if the territory specified  inArt. 1(3)(c).  Article 3(d) refers to the alteration of	 theboundaries  of any State and such alteration would.  be	 theconsequence  of	 any of the adjustments	 specified  in	Art.3(a),  (b)  or	(c).   Article	3(e)  which  refers  to	 thealteration of the name of any State presents no	 difficulty,and  in fact has no material bearing on the  questions	withwhich  we are concerned.  We have yet to consider Art.	3(c)the  construction of which will provide	 he answers  to	 thequestions under reference; but before we interpret Art. 3(c)we  would like to refer to one aspect relating to  the	saidArticle considered as a whole.It is significant that Art. 3 in terms does not refer to theUnion  territories and so, whether or not they are  includedin the last clause of Art. 3(a) there is no doubt that	theyare outside the purview of Art. 3(b), (c), (d) and (e).	  Inother  words, if an increase or diminution in the  areas  ofthe  Union territories is contemplated or the alteration  oftheir boundaries or names is Proposed, it cannot be effectedby  law	 relatable  to Art. 3. This  position  would  be  ofconsiderable assistance in interpreting Art. 3(c).291Article 3(c) deals with the problem of the diminution of thearea of any State.  Such diminution may occur where the partof  the	 area of a State is taken out and added	 to  anotherState,	and  in that sense Arts. 3(b) and 3(c) may  in	somecases be said to be co-related but does Art. 3(c) refer to acase  where  a part of the area of a State is taken  out  ofthat State and is not added to any other State but is bandedover  to  a   foreign  State  The  learned  Attorney-Generalcontends that the words used in Art. 3(c) are wide enough toinclude	 the  case of the cession of national  territory  infavour	of a foreign country which causes the diminution  ofthe area of the State in question.  We are not impressed  bythis  argument.	  Prima	 facie it  appears  unreasonable  tosuggest	 that  the'  makers of the  Constitution  wanted  toprovide	 for  the cession of national territory	 under	Art.3(c).  If the power to acquire foreign territory which is anessential   attribute  of  sovereignty	is   not   expresslyconferred  by  the Constitution there is no reason  why	 thepower to cede a part of the national territory which is alsoan  essential  attribute  of sovereignty  should  have	been'provided for by the Constitution.  Both of these  essentialattributes  of sovereignty are outside the Constitution	 andcan be exercised by India as a sovereign State.	  Therefore,even  if  Art. 3(c) receives the  widest  interpretation  itwould  be difficult to accept the argument that it covers  acase of cession of a part of national territory in favour ofa foreign State.  The diminution of the area of any State towhich it refers postulates that the area diminished from theState  in question should and must continue to be a part  ofthe  territory	of India; it may increase the  area  of	 anyother  State  or  may  be dealt with  in  any  other  mannerauthorised  either by Art. 3 or other relevant provisions ofthe Constitution, but it would not cease to be a part of theterritory of India It would be unduly straining the languageof  Art.  3(c) to hold that by implication it  provides	 forcases	of  cession  of	 a  part  of   national	  territory.Therefore,  we feel no hesitation in holding that the  powerto  cede national territory cannot be read in Art.  3(c)  byimplication.292There  is  another consideration which	is  of	considerableimportance  in	construing Art. 3(c).  As  we  have  alreadyindicated  Art.	 3  does not in terms  refer  to  the  Unionterritories,  and there can be no doubt that Art. 3(c)	doesnot  cover them; and so, if a part of the Union	 territorieshas to be ceded to a foreign State no law relatable to	Art.3  would be competent in respect of such cession If that  bethe true position cession of a part of the Union territorieswould  inevitably  have	 to be	implemented  by	 legislationrelatable  to Art 368 ; and that, in our  opinion,  stronglysupports the construction which we are inclined to place  onArt.  3(c)  even in respect of cession of the  area  of	 anyState	in  favour  of	a  foreign  State.,  It	  would	  beunreasonable,  illogical  and  anomalous  to  suggest  that,whereas	 the cession of a part of the Union territories	 hasto  be	implemented by legislation relatable  to  Art.	368,cession	  of  a	 part  of  the	State  territories  can	  beimplemented   by  legislation  under  Art.  3.	We   cannot,therefore,  accept  the argument of  the  learned  Attorney-General that an agreement which involves a cession of a partof  the territory of India in favour of a foreign State	 canbe implemented by Parliament by passing a law under Art 3 ofthe Constitution.  We think that this conclusion follows  ona  fair	 and  reasonable  construction of  Art.	 3  and	 itsvalidity  cannot be impaired by what the  learned  Attorney-General has described as the special features of the federalConstitution of India.In  this connection the learned Attorney -General has  drawnour  attention	to the provisions of Act XLVII	of  1951  bywhich  the  boundaries of the State of	Assam  were  alteredconsequent on the cession of a strip of territory  comprisedin  that  State to the Government of Bhutan.  Section  2  ofthis  Act provides that on and from the commencement of	 theAct  the  territories of the State of Assam shall  cease  tocomprise  the strip of territory specified in  the  Schedulewhich  shall be ceded to the Government of Bhutan,  and	 theboundaries  of	the State of Assam shall be deemed  to	havebeen  altered  accordingly.   Section  3  provides  for	 theconsequential amendment of the first paragraph in Part A  ofthe  First  Schedule  to the Constitution  relating  to	 theterritory of Assam.  The argument is293that when Parliament was dealing with the cession of a stripof  territory  which  was a part of the State  of  Assam  infavour of the Government of Bhutan it has purported to	passthis Act under Art. 3 of the Constitution.  It Appears	thatthe  strip  of territory which was thus ceded  consisted  ofabout,	32 sq. miles of the territory in the Dewangiri	HillBlock  being  a part of Dewangiri on  the  extreme  northernboundary  of Kamrup District.  This strip of  territory	 waslargely	 covered by forests and only sparsely  inhabited  byBhotias.   The	learned Attorney-General has not  relied  onthis single statute as showing legislative practice.  He hasonly  cited  this as an instance where	the  Parliament	 hasgiven  effect to the cession of a part of the  territory  ofAssam  in favour of the Government of Bhutan by	 enacting  alaw relating to Art. 3 of the Constitution.  We do not thinkthat  this instance can be of any assistance  in  construingthe scope and effect of the provisions of Art. 3.Therefore  our conclusion is that it would not be  competentto  Parliament	to  make a law relatable to Art.  3  of	 theConstitution for the purpose of implementing the  Agreement.It  is	conceded by the learned Attorney-General  that	thisconclusion  must inevitably mean that the law  necessary  toimplement the, Agreement has to be passed under Art. 368.Art. 368 reads thus:-"  Art.	 368.	An amendment of	 this  Constitution  may  beinitiated only by the introduction of a Bill for the purposein  either House of Parliament, and when the Bill is  passedin each House by a majority of the total membership of	thatHouse  and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of	 themembers	 of  that  House present and  voting,  it  shall  bepresented  to  the President for his assent  and  upon	suchassent being given to the Bill, the Constitution shall standamended in accordance with the terms of the Bill:Provided that if such amendment seeks to make any change in-(a)article  54,	 article 55, article 73,  article  162	orarticle 241, or38294(b)Chapter IV of Part V, Chapter V of Part VI, or  Chapter1 of Part XI, or(c)  any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule, or(d)  the representation of States in Parliament, or(e)  the provisions of this article,the  amendment	shall  also require to be  ratified  by	 theLegislatures  of not less than one-half of the States * *  *by  resolutions to that effect passed by those	Legislaturesbefore	the  Bill  making provision for	 such  amendment  ispresented to the President for assent."We have already held that the Agreement amounts to a cessionof  a part of the territory of India in favour of  Pakistan;and  so	 its  implementation  would  naturally	involve	 thealteration of the content of and the consequent amendment ofArt.   1 and of the relevant part of the First	Schedule  tothe   Constitution,   because  such   implementation   wouldnecessarily  lead to the diminution of the territory of	 theUnion  of India.  Such an amendment can be made	 under	Art.368.   This  position  is not in dispute and  has  not	beenchallenged  before us; so it follows that acting under	Art.368  Parliament	 may  make  a law to  give  effect  to,	 andimplement, the Agreement in question covering the cession ofa  part	 of  Berubari Union No. 12 as well as  some  of	 theCooch-Behar  Enclaves	 which	by  exchange  are  given   toPakistan.  Parliament may however, if it so chooses, pass  alaw amending Art. 3 of the Constitution so as to cover casesof cession of the territory of India in favour of a  foreignState.	 If  such  a law is passed then	 Parliament  may  becompetent  to  make  a	law under  the	amended	 Art.  3  toimplement the Agreement in question.  On the other hand,  ifthe necessary law is passed under Art. 368 itself that alonewould be sufficient to implement the Agreement.It  would  not	be out of place to mention  one	 more  pointbefore we formulate our opinion on the questions referred tous.  We have already noticed that under the proviso to	Art.3  of  the  Constitution it is	prescribed  that  where	 theproposal contained in the Bill affects the area,  boundariesor name of any of the States, the Bill has to be referred bythe President to295the  Legislature of that State for its views thereon  withinsuch  period  as is therein prescribed.	 It has	 been  urgedbefore us by the learned Attorney General that if it is heldthat Parliament must act under Art. 368 and not under Art. 3to  implement the Agreement, it would in effect deprive	 theLegislature of West Bengal of an opportunity to express	 itsviews on the cession of the territory in question.  That  nodoubt	is  true;  but,	 if  on	 its  fair  and	  reasonableconstruction   Art.  3	is  inapplicable   this	  incidentalconsequence  cannot  be avoided.  On the other hand,  it  isclear that if the law in regard to the implementation of theAgreement  is to be passed under Art. 368 it has to  satisfythe  requirements prescribed by the said Article;  the	Billhas  to be passed in each House by a majority of  the  totalmembership  of the House and by a majority of not less	thantwo-thirds of the House present and voting; that is to	say,it should obtain the concurrence of a substantial section ofthe  House which may normally mean the consent of the  majorparties	 of the House, and that is a safeguard	provided  bythe Article in matters of this kind.In  this connection it may incidentally be pointed out	thatthe amendment of Art.  1 of the Constitution consequent uponthe cession of any part of the territory of India in  favourof a foreign State does not attract the safeguard prescribedby the proviso to Art. 368 because neither Art. 1 nor Art. 3is  included  in the list of entrenched	 provisions  of	 theConstitution enumerated in the proviso.	 It is not for us toenquire	 or consider whether it would not be appropriate  toinclude the said two Articles under the proviso.  That is  amatter for the Parliament to consider and decide.We would accordingly answer the three questions referred  tous as follows:-Q. 1. Yes.Q.2.  (a) A law of Parliament relatable to Art. 3 of  theConstitution would be incompetent;(b)A  law  of  Parliament relatable to	Art.  368  of  theConstitution is competent and necessary;(c)A law of Parliament relatable to both Art. 368 and Art.3  would  be necessary only if Parliament chooses  first  topass a law amending Art. 3296as indicated above; in that case Parliament may have to passa  law on those lines under Art. 368 and then follow  it  upwith a law relatable to the amended Art. 3 to implement	 theagreement.Q.   3.	 Same as answers (a), (b) and (c) to Question 2.Reference answered accordingly.