PETITIONER:THE MANAGEMENT OF RANIPUR COLLIERY	Vs.RESPONDENT:BHUBAN SINGH AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/04/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR  833		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 719 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC 923	 (9) R	    1959 SC1342	 (16,19) RF	    1963 SC1756	 (8) RF	    1986 SC1168	 (7)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Standing  Orders  -	 Interpretation	 of-Enquiry-Whether	  includes  Proceedings	 before	  IndustrialTribunal -Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 Of 1947), ss. 3,33A.HEADNOTE:The Company after regular enquiry and pending permission  ofthe  Industrial	 Tribunal  under s.  33	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947, suspended some  workmen  without	pay,whereupon the workmen filed applications under s. 33A of theAct before the 'Industrial Tribunal on the ground that theirsuspension  without  pay  beyond ten days  was	against	 theprovisions of the Standing Orders governing their conditionsof service to the effect that an employee might be suspendedprovided  the suspension without pay, whether as  punishmentor  pending enquiry, did not exceed ten days.  The  Tribunaldismissed  the	workmen's  applications	 under	S.  33A	 andgranted	 permission  to the Company to dismiss	the  workmenconcerned.   The workmen appealed.  The	 Appellate  Tribunalupheld the order granting permission to dismiss the  workmenbut came to the conclusion that the words " pending  enquiry"  in  cl. 27 Of the Standing  Orders  included	 proceedingsbefore the Industrial Tribunal and that there was breach  ofthe Standing Orders.Held,  that  the  employer could apply under s.	 33  Of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947, for permission to dismiss  anemployee  when	after a regular enquiry he had come  to	 thefinding	 that the case against the employee was	 proved	 andthat the punishment of dismissal was the proper	 punishment.The Industrial Tribunal had not to enquire into the  conductof the employee or the merits of dismissal but see whether aPrima  facie case had been made out and a fair enquiry	madeby the employer.  The time taken before the Tribunal in suchproceedings was beyond the control of the employer.Standing Orders were concerned with employers and  employeesand  not with Tribunals.  In the instant case, the  words  "pending enquiry " in cl. 27 of the Standing Orders, referredonly  to  the enquiry by the employer and not  to  the	pro-ceedings before the Tribunal.The  principle laid down in Lakshmi Devi Sugar	Mill's	casethat  workmen  would  not be entitled to  payment  of  wagesduring	the whole period of suspension if the Tribunal	gavepermission to, dismiss them, would apply only to cases wherethere  was a ban under s. 33 and the employer had  to  applyunder that section for lifting the ban after completing	 theenquiry.720Rampalat  Chamay v. The Assam Oil Co. Ltd., (195  4)  L.A.C.78, dissented from.The  Automobile	 Products  of India Ltd.  v.  Rukamji  Bala,[1955] 1 S.C.R. 124I, referred to.Lakshmi	 Devi  SugaR Mills Ltd. v. Pt.	 Ram  Sarup,  [1956]S.C.R. 916, followed and explained.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 768 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  21,	1956, of the Labour  Appellate	Tribunal  ofIndia at Calcutta in Appeal No. Cal. 101 of 1956.M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   S.	  N.Mukherjee and B. N. Ghosh, for the appellants.Dipak Dutta Choudhri, for the respondents.1959.  April 21.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.-This is an appeal by special leave against	 thedecision  of  the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India  in  anindustrial  matter.  The appellant is the  Ranipur  Colliery-(hereinafter  called  the  company) which  carries  on	 thebusiness  of coal mining in Dishergarh (West  Bengal).	 Therespondents  are six workmen employed by the company.	Theyalong with another person were working as tub-checkers.	  Itwas  found- that they were making false reports both  as  toquality	 and  quantity of coal, which it was their  duty  tocheck,	with  the  result that the  company  suffered  loss.Consequently, the company served charge-sheetS on them and aregular	 enquiry was held on April 13, 1955, at	 which	theywere  present  and  bad	 full  opportunity  to	give   theirexplanation,  cross-examine witnesses and generally  contestthe  charge.  The company came to the conclusion  after	 theenquiry that the workmen were guilty of the misconduct	withwhich  they were charged and should be dismissed.  As,	how-'ever,	an  industrial dispute between the company  and	 itsworkmen	 was  pending before the  Industrial  Tribunal,	 thecompany	 applied under s. 33 of the Industrial Disputes	 Act(hereinafter  called the Act) for permission to dismiss	 theworkmen.  It appears that five out721of  seven workmen filed two applications under s. 33-  A  ofthe  Act before the Industrial Tribunal on the	ground	thatthey  had been suspended without pay from May 4,  1955,	 andthat  this was against the provision of the Standing  Ordersgoverning   their  conditions  of  service.    These   threeapplications were heard together by the Industrial Tribunal,which  came to the conclusion that the permission should  begranted	 to  the company to dismiss the	 seven	workmen	 andaccordingly  did  so.  Having granted this  permission,	 theIndustrial   Tribunal,	 in   consequence,   dismissed	 theapplications under s. 33-A.Six  of	 the workmen then went up in appeal  to	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  against  the  grant  of  permission  todismiss and the dismissal of their applications under s. 33-A.  Their case was (i) that no permission to dismiss  shouldhave  been  granted,  and (ii) that five of  them  had	beenplaced	under  suspension without wages	 for  an  indefiniteperiod in violation of the express provision of the StandingOrders	and  therefore they were entitled  to  relief.	 TheAppellate Tribunal dismissed the appeal with respect to	 thegrant  of permission to dismiss.  It, however, came  to	 theconclusion that there was a breach of cl. 27 of the StandingOrders,	 and  therefore allowed the appeal of  five  workmen(other	than Akhey Roy), who had applied under s.  33-A	 andordered	 that they should be paid their wages from the	dateof  suspension	without pay to the date	 of  the  IndustrialTribunal's order, less ten days as provided in cl. 27 of theStanding  Orders.   Thereupon the company  applied  to	thisCourt  for special leave which was granted; and that is	 howthe matter hascome before us.It appears that Akhey Roy has been unnecessarily joined as arespondent, for the order of the Appellate Tribunal does notshow  that any relief was granted to him and his  appeal  tothe Appellate Tribunal must therefore be taken to have	beendismissed.Thus the only point that falls for consideration is  whethersuspension without pay pending permission of the  IndustrialTribunal under s. 33 of the Act is a91722breach	of cl. 27 of the Standing Orders.  The	brief  factsnecessary  in this connection are these: Seven workmen	wereserved	with  charge-sheets on April 1, 1955.	After  theirreplies had been received, an enquiry was held on April	 13,1955,  and  they were found guilty, of misconduct.   It	 wasdecided	  thereupon  to	 apply	for  permission	 for   theirdismissal under s. 33 of the Act.  The application was	madeto  the Tribunal on April 29, 1955.  Thereafter the  workmenwere suspended on May 4, 1955, without pay pending orders ofthe Industrial Tribunal.Clause 27 of the Standing Orders, on which reliance has beenplaced, reads thus-"  An employee may be suspended, fined or dismissed  withoutnotice or any compensation in lieu of notice if he is  foundto be guilty of misconduct, provided suspension without pay,whether as a punishment or pending enquiry, shall not exceedten daysThe contention on behalf of the workmen is that the words  "pending enquiry " appearing in cl. 27 include enquiry  unders.  33	of  the Act before  the	 Industrial  Tribunal  also.Therefore, if the Industrial Tribunal takes longer than	 tendays  to decide the application under s. 33 and the  workmanis suspended without pay, there would be a breach of cl.  27of  the	 Standing Orders after ten days are  over.   On	 theother  hand, it is contended on behalf of the  company	thatthe  words " pending enquiry " in el. 27 refer only  to	 theenquiry	 by the employer and not to the	 proceedings  beforethe Industrial Tribunal under s. 33.  The Appellate Tribunalhas come to the conclusion that the words " pending  enquiry"  in  cl.  27 include	proceedings  before  the  IndustrialTribunal under s. 33 and therefore if suspension without payis  for	 more than ten days, even though it may	 be  pendingorders	of the Industrial Tribunal under s. 33, there  is  abreach of el. 27 of the Standing Orders.  In this connectionit has relied on an earlier decision of its own in  RampalatChamar v. The Assam Oil Co., Ltd. (1), where the words	were"  pending full enquiry ". It was of opinion that there	 wasno difference between " pending(1)  [1954] L.A.C. 78.723enquiry	 "  and	 "  pending full  enquiry  "  and  that	 theproceedings before the Industrial Tribunal under s. 33are also included in these words.We  agree that there is no real difference  between  pendingenquiry " which appears in cl. 27 of the Standing Orders and"  pending  full enquiry " which appeared  in  the  StandingOrders	in  The Assam Oil Company case (1).  But we  are  ofopinion that the view taken by the Labour Appellate Tribunalboth in The Assam Oil Company case (1), and in this case  isincorrect.   This Court has held in The Automobile  Productsof  India Ltd. v. Rukamji Bala (2) that s. 33 imposes a	 banon  the employer to dismiss a workman and it gives power  tothe  Industrial Tribunal, on an application made to  it,  togrant  or withhold the permission to dismiss, i.e., to	liftor  maintain the ban.  So far, however, as the	employer  isconcerned, his enquiry is (or, at any rate, should be)	overwhen  he  comes	 to the finding that the  case	against	 theemployee  is proved and that the punishment of dismissal  isthe  proper punishment.	 It is only then that  the  employerapplies under s. 33 for permission to dismiss the  employee.Further,  the proceedings under s. 33 are not an enquiry  bythe  Industrial	 Tribunal into the rights or wrongs  of	 thedismissal;  all that it has to see is whether a prima  faciecase has been made out or not for lifting the ban imposed bythe section and whether a fair enquiry has been made by	 theemployer  in which he came to the bona fide conclusion	thatthe employee was guilty of misconduct.	Once it found  theseconditions in favour of the employer, it was bound to  grantthe  permission	 sought for by him.  It is thus	 clear	thatproceedings under s. 33 are not in the nature of an  enquiryinto the conduct of the employee by the Industrial Tribunal:(see  Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Pt.  Ram Sarup  (3)).The  proceedings  therefore before the	Industrial  Tribunalcannot	be  called  an	enquiry	 into  the  conduct  of	 theemployee.    On	 the  other  hand,  the	 enquiry  which	  iscontemplated by cl. 27 is an enquiry into the conduct of theemployee.  That enquiry could(1) [1954] L.A.C. 78.	      (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1241.(3)  [1956] S.C.R. 916.724only  be by the employer.  Therefore, when cl. 27  uses	 thewords " pending enquiry ", these words can only refer to theenquiry	 by the employer into the conduct of  the  employee.It is, in our opinion, entirely unnecessary that the words "pending enquiry " should have been qualified by the words  "by the employer before they can be interpreted as  referringto  the	 enquiry  by  the  employer.   Standing	 Orders	 areconcerned  with employers and employees and not with  tribu-nals.  Therefore, when an enquiry is mentioned in cl. 27  itcan in the context only refer to the enquiry by the employerand not to a proceeding under s. 33 before the tribunal.  Weare therefore of opinion that in the context in which  thesewords  have been used in cl. 27 they mean an enquiry by	 theemployer  and are not referable to the proceedings under  s.33 of the Act before the Tribunal.The  scheme  and  object  of  s.  33  also  show  that	thisconclusion is reasonable.  Section 33 of the Act, as alreadystated,	 imposes a ban on the employer, thus preventing	 himfrom  dismissing  an  employee till the	 permission  of	 thetribunal  is obtained.	But for this ban the employer  wouldhave been entitled to dismiss the employee immediately afterthe  completion of his enquiry on coming to  the  conclusionthat  the employee was guilty of misconduct.  Thus if s.  33had  not  been	there,	the contract  of  service  with	 theemployee  would	 have  come  to	 an  end  by  the  dismissalimmediately  after  the conclusion of the  enquiry  and	 theemployee would not have been entitled to any further  wages.But  s. 33 steps in and stops the employer  from  dismissingthe  employee immediately on the conclusion of	his  enquiryand compels him to seek permission of the Tribunal, in	casesome industrial dispute is pending between the employer	 andhis employees.	It stands to reason therefore that so far asthe  employer is concerned he has done all that he could  doin  order  to bring the contract of service to an  end.	  Toexpect him to continue paying the employee after he had cometo the conclusion that the employee was guilty of misconductand should be dismissed, is, in our opinion, unfair,  simplybecause of the accidental725circumstance that an industrial dispute being pending he hasto  apply  to the tribunal for permission.  It seems  to  ustherefore  that	 in  such  a  case  the	 employer  would  bejustified  in suspending the employee without pay  after  hehas made up his mind on a proper enquiry to dismiss him	 andto apply to the tribunal for that purpose.  If this were notso, he would have to go on paying the employee for not doingany  work,  and the period for which this will	go  on	willdepend	upon an accidental circumstance, viz., how long	 thetribunal  takes in concluding the proceedings under  s.	 33.In the present case the application for permission was	madeon  April  29, 1955, and the Tribunal's award was  given  onMarch 10, 1956, more than ten months later.  So if the	viewtaken by the Appellate Tribunal is correct, the employer hasto pay the employee for this period of more than ten months,even though the employer had completed his enquiry and	madeup  his mind to dismiss the employee long before  and  wouldhave done so but for the ban imposed by s. 33.	The  purposeof  providing ten days as the maximum period  of  suspensionwithout pay pending enquiry in cl. 27 obviously is that	 theemployer  should  not  abuse  the  provision  of  suspensionpending	 enquiry  and delay the enquiry	 inordinately,	thuskeeping	 the employee hanging about without pay for  a	longperiod.	  The  object further seems to be to  see  that	 theemployer  finishes his enquiry promptly within ten  days  ifthe suspension of the employee is without pay.	But it couldnot  have been intended that the Industrial Tribunal  shouldalso  conclude the proceedings under s. 33 within ten  days,and if that was not done there would be a breach of cl.	 27.In  any	 case the time taken by the proceedings	 before	 thetribunal  under s. 33 is beyond the control of the  employerand  as the provisions of el. 27 would be inappropriate	 andinapplicable  to the said proceedings.' We are therefore  ofopinion that the words " pending enquiry " in cl. 27 both inthe  context  and in justice and reason refer  only  to	 theenquiry	 by the employer and not to the	 proceedings  beforethe tribunal under s. 33.This interpretation would not cause any serious726hardship  to  the  employee,  for  if  the  tribunal  grantspermission  to the employer to dismiss the employee he	willnot get anything from the date of his suspension without pay;  on the other hand, if the tribunal refuses to  grant	 thepermission  sought  for, he would 'be entitled to  his	backwages  from the date of his suspension without pay.  We	 mayin  this connection refer to the case of Lakshmi Devi  SugarMills Ltd. (1) where a similar point arose for decision.  Inthat  case the Standing Orders -provided suspension  withoutpay  only for four days.  It was there held that  suspensionwithout	 pay pending enquiry as also pending  permission  ofthe  tribunal could not be considered a punishment, as	suchsuspension without pay would only be an interim measure	 andwould  last  only  till the application	 for  permission  topunish	the  workman was made and the  tribunal	 had  passedorders thereon.	 It was also held that if the permission wasaccorded the workman would not be entitled to payment duringthe  period of suspension but if the permission was  refusedhe would have to be paid for the whole period of suspension.The  principle laid down in that case applies to  this	casealso.	We would only like to add that that  principle	willapply  only to those cases where there is a ban under s.  33and the employer has to apply under that section for liftingthe  ban after completing the enquiry.	The matter  will  bedifferent  if there is no question of applying under  s.  33and  under  the	 relevant Standing Orders  the	employer  iscompetent  to  dismiss the employee  immediately  after	 hisenquiry is complete.  In such a case if the Standing  Ordersprovide	 that  suspension without pay will not be  for	morethan  a certain number of days, the enquiry must  either  becompleted  within  that	 period or if it  goes	beyond	thatperiod	 and  suspension  for  any  reason   is	  considerednecessary,  pay cannot be withheld for more than the  periodprescribed under the Standing Orders.  In the present  case,the  suspension	 without  pay  took  place  even  after	 theapplication  under  s.	33 had been  made  and	was  pendingpermission  under that section.	 As the Industrial  Tribunalhas  accorded  permission to dismiss the employees  in	thiscase and(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 916.727as  that part of the award has been upheld by the  AppellateTribunal,  there is no question of the employees being	paidduring the period of suspension without pay.  We, therefore,allow  the  appeal,  set  aside	 the  order  of	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal and restore the order of the  IndustrialTribunal dismissing the two applications under s. 33-A.	  Inthe circumstances, we pass no order as to costs.Appeal allowed.