PETITIONER:THE MINERAL DEVELOPMENT LTD., CALCUTTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/08/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1373		  1961 SCR  (1) 445ACT:Mining	lease-Whether includes sub-lease-Mines and  Minerals(Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (53 of 1948), S. 3(d)Mineral Concession Rules, 1949.HEADNOTE:The appellant, a limited company, which was the lessee of  amining	lease granted a sub-lease in respect of two  of	 thevillages  comprised in its grant.  The secretary and two  ofthe  directors	of the company were  prosecuted	 for  havingcontravened  the  provisions  of  the  Mines  and   Minerals(Regulation  &	Development)  Act,  1948,  and	the  MineralConcession  Rules,  1949, which were framed under  it.	 Theappellant  contended,  firstly, that the sub-lease  was	 notcovered	 by the definition of the term " Mining lease  "  ofthe  Act  and as such the Act and Rules did not apply  to  asub-lease  at all ; and secondly, that as these	 rules	weremade  under ss. 5 and 6 of the Act and not under s.  7	theyhave no application to a sub-lease granted by a lessor, evenafter  the coming into force of the Act and the Rules  wherethe  lessor's own lease was of date anterior to	 the  cominginto force of  the Act and the Rules.Held,  that the definition of " Mining lease " contained  inS.   3(d)   of	the  Mines  and	 Minerals  (Regulation	 andDevelopment)  Act,  1048, does not require that	 the  lessormust  be a proprietor and its plain language read with s.  5of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, makes it clear that amining	lease includes one executed by a proprietor as	muchas a lease executed by the lessee from such proprietor.	 Thefacts  that  the  lessor  is  himself  a  lessee,  and	 thetransaction  between him and the person in whose  favour  hemakes  the  transfer by way of lease is called	a  sub-leasedoes  not  in any way change the nature of the	transfer  asbetween them.Held, further, that the Rules made under ss. 5 and 6 of	 theAct  would apply to a mining sub-lease if it is	 made  afterthe Act and the Rules came into force.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 231/1955.Appeal from the Judgment and Decree dated February 16, 1954,of the Patna High Court in Title Suit No. 105/1953.446N.   C.	 Chatterjee, Sanjeev Choudhuri and Ganpat  Rai,	 forthe appellant.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   P.	  K.Chatterjee and T. M. Sen, for respondent No. 1. *Lal  Narayan  Sinha,  Bajrang Sahai and R.  C.	Prasad,	 forrespondent No. 2.1960.	August 31.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyWANCHOO J.-This is an appeal from a decree of the Patna HighCourt.	 The appellant is a Public Limited Company with	 itsregistered  office at Calcutta.	 A mining lease was  grantedto  it	by the Raja of Ramgarh on December 29, 1947,  for  aperiod	of  999 years in respect of  3026  villages  situatewithin	the  Ramgarh  Estate and the appellant	was  put  inpossession  thereof.   On February 1,  1950,  the  appellantgranted a sub-lease of two of the villages comprised in	 itsgrant  to one Bhagat Singh for a term of 15 years.   In	 themeantime the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)Act  (LIII of 1948), (hereinafter called the Act), had	comeinto  force  along with the Mineral Concession	Rules,	1949(hereinafter called the Rules), in the area in which the twovillages  lay.	 Bhagat	 Singh then applied  to	 the  DeputyCommissioner, Hazaribagh, for the grant of a certificate  ofapproval   under   the	 Rules.	   Thereupon   the    DeputyCommissioner, taking the view that the sub-lease granted wasin contravention of the Act and the Rules, filed a complainton  September  25,  1951, before a  magistrate	against	 twodirectors  and the secretary of the appellant charging	themwith the breach of r. 45 of the Rules and also rr. 47 and 49(now r. 51) read with r. 51 (now r. 53) and s. 9 of the Act.While the criminal case was going on, the appellant filed  asuit  challenging the validity and constitutionality of	 theAct  and  the  Rules.  A number of  grounds  were  taken  insupport of this challenge but it is not necessary now to setout  all of them, as learned counsel for the  appellant	 hasconfined  his  arguments only to two points, namely,  (i)  asub-lease  is  not covered by the definition of the  term  'mining lease' in s. 3(d) of the			    447Act  and therefore the Act and the Rules do not apply  to  asub-lease  at all, and (ii) as these Rules were	 made  underss.  5	and  6 of the Act and not under s. 7  they  have  noapplication  to a sub-lease granted by a lessor, even  afterthe  coming into force of the Act and the Rules,  where	 thelessor's own lease was of a date anterior to the coming intoforce of the Act and the Rules.The  suit was resisted by the respondents and their  defencewas  that the term ' mining lease' included a sub-lease	 andthat  the  Rules framed under Bs. 5 and 6 of  the  Act	wereapplicable  to all sub-leases granted after the Act and	 theRules had come into force.The  High  Court  repelled the	contentions  raised  by	 theappellant against the validity and constitutionality of	 theAct  and the Rules.  It further held that the  term  'mininglease' as defined in s. 3(d) of the Act included a sub-leaseand  therefore the Act and the Rules applied  to  sub-leasesgranted	 after the Act and the Rules came into force and  itwas  immaterial that the lease granted to the appellant	 wasanterior in time to the coming into force of the Act and theRules.	On this view, the suit was dismissed.  Thereupon theappellant  applied for a certificate which was	granted	 andthat is how the matter has come up before us.Re. (i).The  main question that falls for consideration	 is  whetherthe  term  'mining lease' as defined in s. 3(d) of  the	 Actincludes  a  sub-lease.	  Clause (d) of s.  3  is  in  theseterms:-"  mining  lease' means a lease granted for the	 purpose  ofsearching    for,   winning,   working,	  getting,    makingmerchantable, carrying away, or disposing of mineral oils orfor purposes connected therewith, and includes an  exploringor a prospecting licence; ".There  is no specific mention of a sub-lease in it.  But  ifone takes the plain meaning of the words used in s. 3(d), itis  clear  that the term 'mining lease' means  any  kind  oflease  granted	for the purpose of searching  for,  winning,working, getting, making merchantable,448carrying  away	or  disposing of minerals  or  for  purposesconnected therewith.  It is significant that the  definitiondoes not require that the lessor must be the proprietor; andso  on a fair reading it would include a lease	executed  bythe  proprietor	 as much as a lease executed by	 the  lesseefrom  such  a proprietor.  If we turn to the  definition  of'lease ' in s. 105 of the Transfer of Property Act, we	findthat a lease of immovable property is a transfer of a  rightto  enjoy such property made for a certain time, express  orimplied or in perpetuity in consideration of a price paid orpromised,  or  of money, a share of crops,  service  or	 anyother  thing  of  value to be rendered	periodically  or  onspecified occasions to the transferor by the transferee	 whoaccepts the transfer on such terms.  What a lease  thereforerequires is a transferor and a transferee and a transfer  ofimmovable property on the terms and conditions mentioned  ins.  105.  How the transferor gets his title to make a  leaseis immaterial so    long as the transaction is of the naturedefined in s.  105.   Applying therefore the plain words  ofs. 3(d)	 of    the  Act	 and  the  definition  of  lease  ascontained in s.	    105 of the Transfer of Property Act,  itis perfectly clear that there is a transferor in this  case,(namely,  the  appellant) and a transferee  (namely,  BhagatSingh)	who  has accepted the transfer; the  transaction  iswith  respect to immovable property and creates a  right  toenjoy such property for a certain term and for considerationon  the conditions mentioned in it.  Though, therefore,	 thedocument may be termed a sub-lease in view of the fact	thatthe transferor is not the owner of the property transfer-redbut  is	 itself	 a  lessee,  the  transaction  between	 theappellant  and Bhagat Singh is nothing but a  mining  lease.The terms ' sub-lease', ' under-lease' and "derivative lease'  are	used  conveniently to indicate	not  only  that	 thetransfer is a lease but also that the transferor is not	 theowner of the property but is a lessee ; but the transfer  asbetween	 a  lessee and a sub-lessee is nonetheless  a  leaseprovided it satisfies the definition of s. 105.	 We may	 addthat  Ch.   V of the Transfer of Property Act,	which  dealswith leases of immovable449property  has nowhere made any distinction between  a  leaseand a sub-lease and all the provisions of that Chapter whichapply to a lease also apply to a sublease.  It is only	whendealing	 with the rights and liabilities of the lessee	thats. 108(j) of the Transfer of Property Act lays down that thelessee may transfer absolutely or by way of mortgage or sub-lease the whole or any part of his interest in the property,and that is where one finds mention of a sub-lease,  namely,that it is a lease by a person who is himself a lessee.	 Butthe  fact  that	 the  lessor is himself	 a  lessee  and	 thetransaction  between him and the person in whose  favour  hemakes  the  transfer by way of lease is called	a  sub-leasedoes  not  in any way change the nature of the	transfer  asbetween them.  Therefore on the plain words of s. 3(d)	readwith s. 105 of the Transfer of Property Act there can be  nodoubt that the term 'mining lease' includes a sub-lease.'Learned	  counsel  for	the  appellant	referred   in	thisconnection  to a number of statutes wherein a sub-lease	 hasbeen  expressly stated to be included in the term   'lease'.In the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)	Act,LXVII of 1957, which has replaced the Act, the term  'mininglease'	has  been  defined in s. 3(c)  as  meaning  a  leasegranted for the purpose of undertaking mining operations andincludes  a  sublease.	The 1957 Act was enacted  after	 thejudgment of the High Court in this case and the	 legislatureapparently thought it fit ex abundanti cautela to say that asub-lease  is included within the term ' mining lease'.	  Inthe  corresponding English Act also as well as	the  EnglishLaw of Property, 1925, a lease has been defined to include asub-lease.   The fact however that in some laws a  lease  isdefined to include a sub. lease, does not mean that a  leasecannot	otherwise  include a sub-lease.	 An example  to	 thecontrary  is  the   Transfer  of  Property  Act,  where	 thedefinition  of	the word 1 lease' clearly  includes  a	sub-lease.	 Learned  counsel for the appellant also  relied  oncertain decisions in which it was held that a lease did	 notinclude a sub-lease.  Those decisions, however, turn on	 theparticular terms of the enactment there under450consideration  and are of no assistance in  determining	 thequestion whether the term 'mining lease' in the Act includesa mining sub-lease.  Ordinarily, a lease will include a sub-lease  unless  there  is anything to  the  contrary  in	 theparticular  law.   We may in this connection  refer  to	 theobservations  of  Jessel,  M. R., in  Camberwell  and  SouthLondon Building Society v. Holloway (1) at p. 759:-" The word `lease' in law is a well-known legal term of welldefined import.	 No lawyer has ever suggested that the titleof the lessor makes any difference in the description of theinstrument, whether the lease is granted by a freeholder  ora  copyholder with the licence of the Lord or by a  man	 whohimself is a leaseholder.  It being well granted for a	termof years it is called a lease.	It is quite true that  wherethe  grantor  of  the lease holds for  a  term,	 the  secondinstrument  is called either an under lease or a  derivativelease, but it is still a lease...........".We see nothing in the Act to indicate that the term ' mininglease' as defined in a. 3(d) does not include a mining	sub-lease.	On the other hand, looking to the purpose and objectwith  which the Act was passed, it seems to us	quite  clearthat  a sub-lease must be included within the  term  'mininglease'	as  it obviously is within the plain words of  s.  3(d).That  the Act was passed in the public interest is shown  bythe  fact that it provides for the regulation of  mines	 andoil  fields  and  for  the  development	 of  minerals.	 Theintention was that the mineral wealth of the country  shouldbe conserved and should be worked properly without waste andby persons qualified in that kind of work.  With that objectin view s. 5 inter alia provides for making rules as to	 theconditions  on which mining leases may be granted and	themaximum or minimum area and the period 'for which such leasemay  be	 granted  as also the terms on	which  leases  inrespect	 of  contiguous areas may be  amalgamated,  and	 thefixing of the maximum and minimum rent payable by a lessee(1) (1879) 13 Ch.  D. 754, 759451whether	 the mine is worked or not.  Section 6 provides	 forframing	 of  rules for the conservation and  development  ofminerals,  the	manner in which any mineral or any  area  asrespects  which the grant of mining lease is prohibited	 maybe developed and the development of any mineral resources inany  area by prescribing or regulating the use	of  engines,machinery  or other equipment, and so on.  These  provisionsfor  the conservation, development and regulation of  miningareas  and  minerals  would  be	 more  or  less	  completelyfrustrated  if	a mining sub-lease was not included  in	 thedefinition  of	the term 'mining lease', for then  all	thatwould  be necessary for a per. son who wanted to  avoid	 thelaw  would be to interpose an intermediary  between  himselfand  the owner and get a sub-lease from him which  would  befree  from the regulatory control of the Act and the  Rules.'We are therefore of opinion that looking at the plain wordsof s. 3(d) and the object and the purpose for which the	 Actwas passed, it is clear that a mining sub-lease is  includedwithin the definition of the term  'mining lease' and  thereis  nothing  in the Act which militates	 against  this.	  Wetherefore hold that a mining sub-lease made after the cominginto force of the Act and the Rules is included in the	term'mining lease' as defined in s. 3 (d) and is subject to	 theAct and the Rules.Be. (ii).The  argument  in this connection is that a. 4	of  the	 Actprovides  that	no mining lease shall be granted  after	 thecommencement  of the Act otherwise than in  accordance	withthe rules framed under the Act and any mining lease  grantedotherwise shall be void and of 'no effect.  Sections 5 and 6give  power  to	 the Central Government to  make  rules	 forpurposes  already set out above and refer to  mining  leasesgranted under s. 4 Then comes s. 7, which lays down that theCentral	 Government  may  by notification  in  the  officialgazette make rules for the purpose of modifying or  alteringthe terms and conditions of any mining lease58452granted prior to the commencement of the Act so as to  bringsuch lease into conformity with the rules framed under Be. 5and  6.	 It  is urged that where a  mining  lease  has	beengranted before the Act and the Rules came into force, it  isonly the rules framed under s. 7 which will affect any	sub-lease granted by such a lessee even though the sub-lease  isafter  the  date on which the Act and the  Rules  came	intoforce.	Section 7 in our opinion was enacted for an entirelydifferent  purpose, as sub-s. (2) thereof will show.  It  ishowever	 not necessary to go into this matter  further,	 foronce  it is held that a, sub-lease is included in  the	term'mining	 lease	', the rules made under ss. 5  and  6  wouldapply  to such a sub-lease, if it is made after the Act	 andthe  Rules came into force.  In the present case,  the	sub-lease  was  granted after the Act and the  Rules  came	intoforce in the area with which the sub-lease is concerned	 andtherefore the sub-lease would be governed by the Act and theRules.	 There is no question in this case of  modifying  oraltering  the  terms  and conditions  of  any  mining  leasegranted	 prior to the commencement of the Act, for  the	 Actand the Rules are being enforced with respect to a sub-leasewhich is a mining lease, within the definition of that	termin  s.	3(d), made 'after the Act and the  Rules  came	intoforce.	 No change is being made by the Rules in  the  termsand conditions of the mining lease granted to the  appellantand all that has happened is that the appellant's  directorsand secretary, are being prosecuted for granting a sub-lease(which is a mining lease) against the provisions of the	 Actand  the Rules after the Act came into force.  There  is  noforce  therefore in this contention of the appellant and  itmust be repelled.There is no force in this appeal and it is hereby  dismissedwith costs., One set of hearing costs only.				  Appeal dismissed.453