PETITIONER:B.N. ELIAS AND CO., LTD., EMPLOYEES'UNION AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:B.   N. ELIAS & CO., LTD., AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:24/03/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  886		  1960 SCR  (3) 382 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC 474	 (6) R	    1963 SC1007	 (8,27) R	    1972 SC  70	 (11)ACT:Industrial  Dispute--Bonus--Implied  term  of  agreement  orcondition   of	 service--Ex   gratia	 Payments--Customarybonus--Puja bonus.HEADNOTE:Since  1942 the respondents had been making ex	gratia	pay-ments  to their employees (appellants) in addition to  wagesand salaries,  but these were not regular and in 956, no  exgratia	payments were made at all.  The	 appellants  claimedthat their right to be paid bonus had become an implied termof agreement or a condition of service and, at any rate,  itshould be paid as customary bonus, and relied on the case ofThe Graham Trading Co. (India) Ltd. v. Its Workmen, [1960] 1S.C.R.	107.  The evidence showed that though  the  paymentswere  made  from 1942 to 1952 it was made clear	 every	timethat the payments were made as ex gratia:Held,  (1) Where payments are made to workers ex gratia	 andare accepted as such, it is not possible to imply a term  ofservice on the basis of an implied agreement to pay bonus.(2)  that  there  cannot  be a customary  payment  of  bonusbetween	  employer  and employee where terms of service	 aregoverned  by contract, express or implied, except where	 thebonus  may  be connected with a festival,  whether  Puja  inBengal or some other equally important festival in any otherpart of the country.The Graham Trading Co. (India) Ltd. v. Its Workmen, [1960] 1S.C.R. 107, explained.(3)  that for the year 1956 one month's basic wage should bepaid as Puja bonus to the subordinate staff as it has becomecustomary and traditional in the respondents' concerns,383JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 121 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the Award dated June 3,  1957,of the Second Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal.N.   C.	 Chatterjee,  D.  L.  Sen  Gupta  and  Dipak   DattaChoudhri, for the appellants.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. N.  Sanyal,Additional Solicitor-General of India and S. N.	  Mukherjee,for the respondents.1960.  March 24.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO, J.-This appeal by special leave raises the questionof bonus.  There was a dispute between the workmen of B.  N.Elias  &  Co. Ltd. (hereinafter called the  appellants)	 andtheir  employers,  B.  N.  Elias and  Co.  Ltd.	 and  others(hereinafter  called the respondents) with respect to  bonusfor  the  years	 1954,	1955 and  1956.	  The  case  of	 theappellants  was	 that  they  were entitled  to	bonus  as  acondition  of service irrespective of profit or loss on	 thefollowing scale:-I--Clerical staff.1  month's basic pay as bonus in April,1 month's basic pay as bonus in August,1  month's  basic pay as bonus in  December.II--Subordinate staff.1  month's basic wages as bonus in April,1  month's basic wages as bonus in August,1 month's basic wages as bonus at Puja time,1 month's basic wages as bonus in December.According to the appellants this bonus was always paid	from1942 to 1952.  Later as there were some disputes between theappellants  and the respondents, the respondents  wanted  tostop  the payment of bonus from 1953, though something	lesswas  paid that year in 1954 the amount of bonus was  furtherreduced.   Consequently,  a  dispute was  raised  which	 wasreferred  by  the  Government of West Bengal  in  May  1956.Subsequently another dispute was raised with respect to	 thebonus  for  the	 years 1955 and 1956 and this  time  it	 wasclaimed	 as a customary bonus or as a condition	 of  servicepayable at regular intervals of four384months	and  at a uniform rate.	  Thereupon  a	consolidatedreference  was	made  by the Government of  West  Bengal  inSeptember  1956 with respect to all the three years, i.	 e.,1954, 1955 and 1956, to the same tribunal.When the matter came up before the tribunal, the respondentscontended  that they were not in a prosperous condition	 andwere  unable  to  pay any further  bonus  besides  what	 hadalready been paid for the years in dispute.  It was admittedthat  since  about 1942 the respondents had been  making  exgratia payments to their employees in addition to wages	 andsalaries.   These  payments  were made at the  rate  of	 onemonth's basic wage each time but their number in the  courseof  one	 year  used to vary.  At one  time  four  ex  gratiapayments  were	made to clerical and subordinate  staff	 butlater  the number of ex gratia payments was reduced for	 theclerical staff to three per year but it remained at four forthe subordinate staff until the year 1952.  As, however, thetrading	 result in 1952 deteriorated as	 compared  with	 theprevious years, the respondents made only two ex gratia pay-ments  to clerical staff and three to subordinate staff	 forthe  year  1953.  A dispute was then raised by	the  workmenwith regard to that year but the Government refused to	makea reference to the tribunal.  In 1954 and 1955 two ex gratiapayments  were	made  to  clerical  staff  and	two  to	 thesubordinate staff.  In 1956, no ex gratia payments were madeat  all.   The respondents denied that these  payments	weremade  as  a condition of service or as an  implied  term  ofagreement irrespective of profit or loss.  They also  deniedthat  these were customary payments irrespective  of  profitand loss.  It was alleged that they were truly and  strictlyex  gratia payments made by the respondents voluntarily	 outof  goodwill  in circumstances in which	 no  tribunal  wouldaward a bonus.	The respondents therefore resisted the claimfor any further payment as bonus for these three years.Before	the tribunal, the appellants abandoned	their  claimfor  bonus  on the basis of the Full  Bench  formula.	Theyhowever pressed their claim on the385ground	that  bonus was payable as An implied  condition  ofservice and had also acquired the status of customary bonus.The  tribunal,	however, negatived the contention  that	 thepayment of bonus as claimed had become an implied  conditionof  service.   It also held that the case of  the  employeesbased on custom was not tenable.  In consequence it  refusedto  grant  any	further bonus for the years  1954  and	1955beyond what the appellants had been already paid and reject-ed the claim for 1956 altogether.Shri N. C. Chatterjee for the appellants has mainly  pressedthe  claim  for bonus on the ground that it is	a  customarybonus  and relies on The Graham Trading Co. (India) Ltd.  v.Its  Workmen  (1).  Before we deal with this aspect  of	 thematter	we  may	 shortly dispose of the claim  based  on  animplied	 agreement  or condition of service.   The  evidenceshows that though payment was made uninterruptedly from 1942to  1952 three times a year to the clerical staff  and	fourtimes  a  year to the subordinate staff, it was	 made  clearevery  time  the payment was made that it was an  ex  gratiapayment.   Further  the receipts given by the  employees,  asample	of  which  was produced, show  that  the  bonus	 wasaccepted  as ex gratia bonus.  As is pointed in	 The  GrahamTrading Co. (1) it would not be possible to imply a term  ofservice	 on  the  basis of an  implied	agreement  when	 thepayment	 was  clearly  made  ex gratia	and  had  even	beenaccepted   as  such,  as  in  this  case.   Therefore,	 thecontention of the appellants that the bonus claimed by	themhas  become an implied term of agreement or a  condition  ofservice must fail.Our  attention in this connection was drawn to a  letter  ofappointment  issued to one C. V. Thomas in which  under	 thehead " other allowance ", the following appears-"  Equivalent  to a month's salary every 4th month  will  beallowed after your confirmation in employment."That  is, however, an express term in the  contract  betweenthe National Tobacco Company of India Limited (which is	 oneof the respondents before us)(1)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 107.386and Thomas and cannot be a basis for a finding of an impliedterm of agreement to give bonus three times a year.   Thomasmay  have  a claim on the basis of this	 term  of  agreementbetween	 him  and the company, about which we  say  nothing.Another	 letter of appointment also of National Tobacco	 Co.of  India Limited with respect to one Ram Shankar Misra	 wasreferred  to.  In that letter, however, among the  terms  wefind  a	 term relating to bonus at the rate of	Rs.  15	 permonth  after  confirmation.  That is again an e	 press	termbetween that employee and the National Tobacco Co. of  IndiaLimited	 and cannot support the case of an in lied  term  ofagreement by which a month's bonus is paid thrice a year  inApril,	August	and December.  The  tribunal  was  thereforeright in rejecting the contention based on the implied	termof agreement or condition of service.Turning	 now to the case of customary bonus which  has	beenpressed	 before us on the -authority of The  Graham  HeadingCo. (1) we may point out that that was a case of a customaryand  traditional bonus payable at Puja which was  a  specialfestival  of  particular importance in	Bengal.	  That	casecannot be held to have laid down that there can be customarybonus  as  such	 unconnected  with  some  festival.   It  isdifficult to introduce a customary payment of bonus  betweenemployer and employee where terms of service are governed bycontract, express or implied, except where the bonus may  beconnected  with	 a festival whether Puja in Bengal  or	someother  equally important festival in any other part  of	 thecountry.   The	principles  laid  down	in  that  case	 forgoverning  customary and traditional bonus connected with  afestival  cannot in our opinion be extended to what  may  becalled a customary bonus unconnected with any festival.	  Weare  therefore of opinion that the appellants having  failedto  prove  (except in one matter with which  we	 shall	dealpresently) that there was an implied agreement or  conditionof service for payment of bonus, they cannot ask for paymentof  any	 bonus	on  the	 basis	of  any	 customary   paymentunconnected with any festival.(1)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 107387This  brings us to one of the payments to subordinate  staffwhich was " one month's basic wages as bonus at Puja time ".It  will  be noticed that this payment	to  the	 subordinatestaff  at  Puja time is in addition to	the  other  paymentswhich  are common between the clerical and  the	 subordinatestaff.	 This payment of one month's basic wage as bonus  atPuja  appears to have continued uninterrupted from the	timeit  started in 1942 or thereabout upto the time the  disputearose  in 1954.	 The payment was invariably of	one  month'sbasic wage and it appears that it was paid even in a year ofloss,  vide  Ex.  E. We are therefore of  opinion  that	 theprinciples laid down in The Graham Trading Co. (1) apply  toone month's Puja bonus payable to the subordinate staff	 andit should be held that this payment has become customary andtraditional  in the respondents' concerns when	the  disputewas  raised  for the first time in 1954.  We have  no  doubtthat  if  the  judgment in The Graham Trading  Co.  (1)	 wasavailable  to  the  tribunal it would  have  held  that	 onemonth's	 basic	wage as bonus at Puja  time  to	 subordinatestaff	had   become  customary	 and  traditional   in	 therespondents' concerns.	We therefore partly allow the appealand  hold that one month's basic wage as Puja bonus  to	 thesubordinate  staff has become customary and  traditional  inthe  respondents' concerns and we order the  respondents  topay that for the year 1956 for which no bonus whatsoever hasbeen  paid.   The  rest of the appeal fails  and  is  herebydismissed.   In	 the circumstances we order the	 parties  tobear their own costs.Appeal allowed in part.(1) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 107.388