PETITIONER:THE  ASSOCIATED CEMENT COMPANIES LIMITED,CHAIBASSA CEMENT WO	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/09/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR   56		  1960 SCR  (1) 703 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC1213	 (5) R	    1962 SC1221	 (17) R	    1963 SC1710	 (8) R	    1964 SC 864	 (13) F	    1974 SC1132	 (10,11)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Lay-off   compensation-Disqualification-Cement	factory-Limestone quarry -Whether both Parts of	 oneestablishment--Lay-off	of workers in cement factory due  tostrike	in  limestone  quarry-"	 In  another  Part  of	 theestablishment  " meaning of-Test for determining  whether  aparticular unit is Part of a bigger  establishment-FactoriesAct, 1948 (63 of 1948), s. 2(m)-Plantations Labour Act, 1951(69 of 1951), s. 2(f)-Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), ss. 2(j)17-Industrial  Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), ss.  2(kkk),18(3), 25C, 25E, 33.HEADNOTE:The  cement  factory in question which is in  the  State  ofBihar  belonged	 to the appellant company  and	a  limestonequarry owned by the same company As situate about a mile anda  half	 from the factory.  Limestone  being  the  principalrawmaterial  for  the  manufacture of  cement,	the  factorydepended exclusively for the supply of limestone on the saidquarry.	 On behalf of the labourers in the limestone  quarrycertain	 demands were made on the management of the  companybut  as	 they  were rejected they went	on  strike;  and  onaccount	 of the non-supply of limestone due to	the  strike,the  management	 had to close down certain sections  of	 thefactory	 and to lay-off the workers not required during	 theperiod of closure of the sections concerned.   Subsequently,after the dispute between the management and the workers  ofthe  limestone quarry was settled and the strike came to  anend,  a	 demand	 was made on behalf of the  workers  of	 thefactory who had been laid-off during the strike, for paymentof  lay-off  compensation  under s. 25C	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act, 1947, but the management refused	 the  demandrelying	 on cl. (iii) to s. 25E of the Act,  which  providedthat  " no compensation shall be paid to a workman  who	 hadbeen  laid-off............... if such laying-off is  due  tostrike............ on the part of workmen in another part ofthe  establishment ". The Industrial Tribunal took the	viewthat the limestone quarry was not part of the  establishmentof  the	 cement factory and that the workmen in	 the  latterwere  not disentitled to lay-off compensation by  reason  ofCl.  (iii)  of	S. 25E of the Act.   The  appellant  companyappealed by special leave to the Supreme Court and contendedthat the decision of the Tribunal was erroneous because	 thefacts  of  the case showed (a) that in respect of  both	 thefactory	 and  the  limestone  quarry  there  was  unity	  ofownership,  unity  of management, supervision  and  control,unity of finance and employment, unity704of  labour and conditions of service of workmen,  functionalintegrality,  general  unity  of  purpose  and	geographicalproximity,  and	 (b) that the strike was decided on  by	 thesame  Workers' Union which consisted of the workmen  at	 thefactory	  and  the  quarry.   It  was  contended   for	 therespondents  inter  alia  (1) that  the	 conclusion  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunal  that  the factory	 and  the  limestonequarry	are not parts of one establishment is a	 finding  offact  which should not be disturbed in an appeal by  specialleave,	(2) that the effect of the Explanation to s. 25A  ofthe  Act  is to negative the idea of a factory	and  a	mineforming	 parts of one establishment, and (3) that  since  inthe  matter  of reference of industrial	 disputes,  the	 Actgives jurisdiction to two distinct authorities, the  CentralGovernment in respect of the limestone quarry and the  StateGovernment  in	respect of the factory, the two	 units,	 thefactory and mine, cannot -be treated as one establishment.Held:	  (1) that the question whether the factory and	 thelimestone  quarry  form one establishment depends  upon	 thetrue scope and effect of the expression "in another part  ofthe  establishment" in cl.(iii)of s. 25E of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947, and involves a  consideration  of	 thetests  which  should  be applied in  determining  whether  aparticular  unit  is  part of a	 bigger	 establishment,	 andthough	for that purpose certain preliminary facts  must  befound,	the final conclusion to be drawn therefrom is not  amere question of fact ;(2)  that the true scope and effect of the Explanation to s.25A of the Act is that it explains what categories, factory,mine   or  plantation,	come  within  the  meaning  of	 theexpression  " industrial establishment "; it does  not	dealwith  the question as to what constitutes one  establishmentand lays down no tests for determining that question;(3)  that   existence	of  two	  jurisdictions	  does	 notnecessarily  imply  that for all purposes of  the  Act,	 andparticularly  for payment of unemployment compensation,	 thefactory	  and	quarry	 must	be   treated   as   separateestablishments ; and,(4)  that  on  the facts of the present case  the  limestonequarry and the factory constituted one establishment  withinthe  meaning of cl. (iii) of s. 25E of the Act and that	 theworkmen	 at the factory were not entitled to  claim  lay-offcompensation.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 87 of 1958.Appeal	by  special leave from the Award dated	October	 10,1956, of the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, Patna, in ReferenceNo. 6 of 1956.R.   J.	 Kolah,	 S. N. Andley and Rameshwar  Nath,  for	 theappellants.B.   C. Ghose and P. K. Chatterjee, for the respondents.7051959.	September  11.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byS.   K.	 DAS J.-This appeal by special leave from  an  awarddated  October	10, 1956, made by the  Industrial  Tribunal,Bihar, raises an important question of interpretation in thematter of a disqualification for lay-off compensation  unders. 25E read with s. 25C of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947(hereinafter called the Act), and so far as we know, this isthe  first  case of its kind in which the  expression  "  inanother	 part of the establishment " occurring in cl.  (iii)of s. 25E has come up for an authoritative interpretation.The  facts  are simple and are shortly set out	below.	 TheAssociated  Cement  Companies Ltd., hereinafter	 called	 theCompany,  have	a number of cement  factories  in  differentStates	of the Indian Union as also in Pakistan.  There	 aretwo  such factories in the State of -Bihar, one	 at  Khelariand the other at a place called Jhinkpani in the district ofChaibasa in Bihar.  The latter factory is commonly known  asthe  Chaibasa  Cement Works.  There is	a  limestone  quarryowned  by the same Company situate about a mile and  a	halffrom-the  Chaibasa Cement Works, the quarry being  known  asthe  Rajanka limestone quarry.	Limestone is  the  principalraw material for the manufacture of cement and the  ChaibasaCement	Works,	depended  exclusively  for  the	 supply	  oflimestone on the said quarry.  At the time relevant to	thisappeal	there were two classes of labourers at	the  quarry,those employed by the Company through the management of	 theChaibasa  Cement  Works	 and others who were  engaged  by  acontractor.   There  was  one union known  as  the  ChaibasaCement	Workers'  Union, hereinafter called  the  Union,  ofwhich  the Company's labourers both at the Cement Works	 andthe quarry were members.  There was another union consistingof  the contractor's labourers which was known as the A.  C.C.  Limestone  Contractor's Mazdoor Union.   On	 January  3,1955,  the Union made certain demands on the  management  onbehalf	of the labourers in the limestone quarry, but  thesewere  rejected	by the management.  Then,  by  a  subsequentletter dated February 18,7061955,  the General Secretary of the Union gave a  notice  tothe Manager of the Chaibasa Cement Works to the effect	thatthe  Union proposed to organise a general stay-in-strike  inthe limestone quarry from March 1, 1955, if certain demands,details	 whereof are unnecessary for our purpose,  were	 notgranted on or before February 28,1955.	A similar notice wasalso  given on behalf of the A.C.C.  Limestone	Contractor'sMazdoor	 Union.	  These notices led to	certain	 efforts  atconciliation  which however, failed.  On February 24,  1955,the  management	 gave  a  notice to  all  employees  of	 theChaibasa  Cement Works, in which it was stated that  in	 theevent  of the strike materialising in the limestone  quarry,it  would  be  necessary for the management  to	 close	downcertain	 sections of the factory at Jhinkpani on account  ofthe non-supply of limestone; the notice further stated	thatin  the event of such closure, it would be necessary to	 layoff  the workers not required during the period	 of  closurefor  the sections concerned.  The strike commenced on  March1,  1955, and lasted till July 4, 1955.	 On March 25,  1955,the  management wrote to the General Secretary of the  Unionintimating  to him that the workers in	certain	 departmentsreferred to in an earlier letter dated March 19, 1955, wouldbe  laid-off with effect from April 1, 1955.  On  March	 28,1955, the management gave the lists of employees who were tobe  laid-off with effect from April 1, 1955, and they  were,actually laid-off from that date.  During the period of	 thestrike	 fresh	efforts	 at  conciliation  were	  made	 andultimately  the strike came to an end on July 5, 1955,	whenthe  Central  Government referred the  dispute	between	 themanagement  and the workers of the limestone quarry  to	 theCentral Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad.	 This reference was,however,   withdrawn  by  mutual  consent  in  terms  of   asettlement  arrived at on December 7, 1955.  The details  ofthis settlement are not relevant to this appeal.Thereafter,  a demand was made by the Union for	 payment  oflay-off	 compensation  to those workers of  Chaibasa  CementWorks who had been laid-off for the period April 1, 1955, toJuly 4, 1955.  This demand707was  refused  by  the  management.  This  gave	rise  to  anindustrial  dispute which was referred by the Government  ofBihar  under  s. 10 of the Act to the  Industrial  Tribunal,Bihar.	 The terms of reference set out the dispute  in	 thefollowing words:-"  Whether  the	 workmen of the Chaibasa  Cement  Works	 areentitled  to  compensation for lay-off for the	period	fromApril 1, 1955, to July 4, 1955."The  parties filed written statements before the  IndustrialTribunal  and the only witness examined in the case was	 Mr.Dongray, Manager of the Chaibasa Cement Works, Jhinkpani.At  this point it is necessary to read the two	sections  ofthe  Act  which relate to the right of	workmen	 to  lay-offcompensation  and  the	circumstances  in  which  they	 aredisqualified for the same.  The right is given by s. 25C andthe  disqualification is stated in three clauses of s.	25E,of which the third clause only is important for our purpose.We  now proceed to read ss. 25C and 25E so far as  they	 arematerial for our purpose. "  S.	25C.  (1) Whenever a workman  (other  than  a  badliworkman	 or  a casual workman) whose name is  borne  on	 themuster	rolls  of an industrial establishment  and  who	 hascompleted not less than one year of continuous service underan  employer is laid-off, he shall be paid by  the  employerfor all,days during which he is so laid-off, except for suchweekly	holidays as may intervene, compensation which  shallbe equal to fifty per cent. of the total of the basic  wagesand  dearness allowance that would have been payable to	 himhad he not been so laid-off.""  S. 25E.  No compensation shall be paid to a	workman	 whohas been laid-off-(i) ........................(ii)........................(iii)	  if such laying-off is due to a strike or  slowing-down of production on the part of workmen in another part ofthe establishment."708Now,  the central point round which the controversy  betweenthe  parties  has  raged is this.  Was the  lay-off  of	 theworkers in certain sections of the Chaibasa Cement Works dueto  a strike on the part of workmen in another part  of	 theestablishment within the meaning of cl. (iii) of s. 25E ? Inother words, was the limestone quarry at Rajanka part of theestablishment  known  as  the Chaibasa	Cement	Works?	 Thecontention  of	the management was and is  that	 the  CementWorks and the limestone quarry form one establishment withinthe  meaning  of  cl. (iii) aforesaid.	 The  contention  onbehalf	of  the workmen is that they are not  parts  of	 oneestablishment but are separate establishments.	The  learnedChairman of the Industrial Tribunal held, for reasons  whichwe  shall presently discuss, that the limestone	 quarry	 wasnot  part of the establishment known as the Chaibasa  CementWorks and the workmen in the latter were not disentitled  tolay-off compensation by reason of cl. (iii) of s. 25E.	 Thecorrectness of this view is the principal point for decisionin this appeal.On  behalf of the respondent workmen it has  been  contendedthat  the  conclusion of the Industrial	 Tribunal  that	 thefactory at Jhinkpani and the limestone quarry at Rajanka arenot parts of one establishment is a finding of fact and thisappeal	should	be disposed of on that footing.	 We  do	 notthink that this contention is correct and we shall presentlydeal  with  it.	 We propose, however, to examine  first	 therelation  between  the limestone quarry at Rajanka  and	 thecement	factory	 at Jhinkpani in the light of  the  evidencegiven before the Tribunal and the findings arrived at by it;because they will show the process of reasoning by which theTribunal came to its final conclusion.The  evidence  was  really one sided and  the  only  witnessexamined  was  Mr. Dongray, Manager of the  Chaibasa  CementWorks.	 Now, the relation between the limestone quarry	 andthe  factory can be considered from several points of  view,such  as  (1) ownership, (2) control  and  supervision,	 (3)finance,  (4)  management and employment,  (5)	geographicalproximity  and (6) general unity of purpose  and  functionalintegrality,709with  particular  reference  to the  industrial	 process  ofmaking	cement.	 On all that above points Mr.  Dongray	gaveevidence.   It was not disputed that the Company  owned	 thelimestone quarry as also the factory and there was unity  ofownership.  Mr. Dongray's evidence further showed that therewas  unity of control, management and employment.   He	saidthat  the limestone quarry was treated as a part and  parcelof  the	 Chaibasa  Cement Works, that is,  as  a  departmentthereof and he as the Manager was in overall charge of both,though	 there	was  a	Quarry	Manager	 in  charge   as   adepartmental  head  under him.	On this	 point	Mr.  Dongraysaid:-" There is a Manager appointed for the quarries.The  Manager is working under me.  The Cement  Works  itselfhas  about  eight or nine departments under it.	  There	 areheads of each department.  The Manager of the quarry has thesame status as the heads of other departments at the  CementWorks."This  was  supported by a circular letter dated	 March	 11,1952, which said that the entire factory and the  associatedquarries were under the sole control of the Manager, who wasresponsible for maintaining full output at economic cost  upto  the	 expected  standard.  The  circular  letter  furtherstated	that all orders and contracts were to be  issued  bythe Manager for the  working of the factory and quarries andthe relevant bills were to be passed by him.  As to  financeand conditions of employment, Mr. Dongray said:-"  All	requirements of the quarry are sent by	the  Managerthere  to the office of the Cement.  Works and if  they	 areavailable  in the Cement Works Stores, they are issued	fromthere;	otherwise  I indent them from the Bombay  office  orpurchase  them locally.	 There is no account office  in	 thequarries  and  their  account is maintained  in	 the  CementWorks'	Office.	 I as Manager of the Chaibasa  Cement  Worksmake payment for the indents or requirements of the quarriesstated	above.	The quarry has no separate banking  account.The  Quarry  Manager  is not  entitled	to  operate  bankingaccount	 apart from myself At the quarries there are  daily-rated workers and monthly-paid staff.90710To  the daily-paid workers in the quarries, the	 cashier  ofthe  Cement  Works  or his  Assistant  makes  payment,	whenrequired.   The monthly-paid staff of the quarries  come  tothe  Cement  Office for receiving payment.   In	 the  CementWorks  we  have	 got  a system of  allocation  of  work	 fordifferent  jobs every day.  It is done by  the	DepartmentalHeads.	 Same  system prevails in the  quarries	 also.	 TheQuarry	Manager	 does  the  distribution  as  head  of	thatdepartment.  Attendance Register is maintained at the quarryin  the same way as it is done in the different	 departmentsof the Cement Works.  There is only one common pay sheet forall the monthly-paid staff, whether he is at the factory  orin  the quarries.  For the daily-rated workers we  have	 gotdifferent sheets department-wise and there is one such sheetfor  the daily workers of the quarry as well.  There is	 onesummary sheet of the payment showing the payment of all	 thedepartments  including the payment in the quarries as  well.I have to send statutory intimation to the authorities underthe  Mines Act regarding the quarries for working faces	 andother  accidents etc.  The staff and workers working in	 thequarries  are transferable to the Cement Works according  tothe exigencies of the work and also vice versa.	 There	havebeen  a	 few  instances of such transfers.   The  terms	 andconditions of service, for instance, T. A., leave, providentfund,  gratuity,  etc., are same for workers in	 the  CementWorks  as  also	 the workers in the quarries.	We  got	 theapplication  of the statutory provident fund rules  extendedto  our department in the quarries also.  The report of	 theworking	 of  the quarry comes to me from the  Manager  therefrom  time to time.  I as Manager of the Cement	 Marks	makepayments  of  royalties in in respect of  limestones  raisedfrom  the  quarries.  Payments for  compensation,  maternitybenefits,  accidents, etc., in the quarry are made under  myauthority  by  the  factory office and	not  by	 the  QuarryManager."Exhibits  1 to 26 filed on behalf of the  management,  whichshowed the working of the quarry and the711factory,  supported the aforesaid evidence of  Mr.  Dongray;they  showed, as has been observed by the  Tribunal  itself,that  the management was maintaining one common account	 andthe final authority on the spot in respect of the quarry  asalso in respect of other departments of the factory was	 Mr.Dongray,  the Manager.	There were also other  documents  toshow  that  the transfer of members of the  staff  from	 thequarry to the factory and vice versa was made by Mr. Dongrayaccording  to  the exigencies of service.  It is  worthy  ofnote  here that the Union itself gave notice to the  Managerof  the	 factory with regard to the intended strike  in	 thelimestone   quarry.   The  geographical	 proximity  of	 thelimestone  quarry was never in dispute.	 It was adjacent  tothe factory, being situate within a radius of about a  mile.As to general unity of purpose -and functional	integrality,this  was  also not seriouly in dispute.  Mr.  Dongray	saidthat  limestone	 was  the principal  raw  material  for	 themanufacture  of cement and the cement factory  at  Jhinkpanidepended  exclusively  on the supply of limestone  from	 thequarry	at  Rajanka.  His evidence no doubt  disclosed	thatsome excess limestone was sent to the factory at Khelari  aswell.	On  this point Mr. Dongray said:-" Limestone from this quarry is at times sent to the KhelariCement	Works, but that is very rare and in small  quantity.It is done only in cases of emergency."Mr. Dongray explained that the normal number of departmentalworkers	 in  the  quarry  before  the  strike  was  in	 theneighbourhood  of  250; but there were about  1,000  workersemployed by contractors.  The number of daily-rated  workerswas  in the neighbourhood of 950 and the total	monthly-paidstaff varied from 100 to 105.  The wages paid to the workersin  the	 quarry	 were debited to limestone  account  of	 theCement Works, and in the matter of costing, the amount spenton limestone was also debited.	The bank accounts,  however,were  in  the name of the Company and the persons  who	wereentitled to operate on those accounts were Mr. Dongray,	 theManager,  the Chief Engineer, and the Chief Chemist  of	 theCement Works.712All  the  aforesaid  evidence,	oral  and  documentary,	 wasapparently  accepted  by the Tribunal as  correct;  for	 thelearned	 Chairman  summarised the evidence  of	Mr.  Dongraywithout	 any serious adverse comment.  He then	referred  tocertain	 contentions urged on behalf of the Union, which  hesaid  were  not	 without  force.  We  may  now	state  thosecontentions.   The  first  contention  was  that  under	 theprovisions of the Act, the appropriate authority in  respectof  the	 factory at Jhinkpani was the  State  Government  ofBihar,	whereas the appropriate authority in respect of	 thelimestone  quarry, which was a mine as defined in the  MinesAct,  1952,  was the Central Government.   The	second	con-tention was that there were two sets of Standing Orders, onefor the workmen of the factory and the other for the workmenin the limestone quarry.  The third contention was that	 thelimestone  quarry  had an office of its own and	 a  separateattendance  register,  and the fourth  contention  was	thatunder the provisions of the Mines Act, 1952, Mr. Dongray wasan Agent in respect of the limestone quarry and there was  aseparate  Manager  who	was  responsible  for  the  control,management and direction of the mine under the provisions ofs.  17	thereof.  The learned Chairman referred	 to  certaincriticisms  made in respect of the evidence of Mr.  Dongray.One  criticism was that though the Company was the owner  ofboth  the  factory  and the limestone quarry,  it  had	alsofactories  and limestone quarries at other places  in  Indiaand  Pakistan  and  if the test of one	ownership  were	 thedetermining  test,  then  all the  factories  and  limestonequarries  of  the  Company wherever situtate  would  be	 oneestablishment.	 This criticism was not, however,  pertinentbecause the Company never claimed that all its factories  indifferent   parts   of	India  and   Pakistan	formed	 oneestablishment  by  reason of unity of ownership	 only.	 Theother  criticism  was  that Mr. Dongray	 admitted  that,  ifnecessary  in  the interest of service, the workmen  at	 theChaibasa  Cement  Works could be transferred to	 some  otherfactory of the Company and therefore transferability was nota  sure test.  This criticism was also not germane,  becausethe  Company713never  claimed that transferability was the only sure  test.A third criticism also advanced on behalf of the workmen wasthat  Mr.  Dongray  admitted that all the  accounts  of	 thedifferent  factories and limestone quarries of	the  Companywere  ultimately  consolidated	into  one  Profit  and	LossAccount,  a  criticism	which in our view  was	equally	 notpertinent  to the question at issue.  The  learned  Chairmanthen expressed his final finding in the following words:-"  From	 these and other admissions made by Mr.	 Dongray  itwould  appear  that it is only for economy  and	 conveniencethat he was given charge of the control of both the concernsbut  his  capacity was dual.  While he was  controlling	 theCement	Works as it Works Manager he had the control of	 thequarries  as its Agent under the Mines Act.  It has also  tobe  noted  that	 if  both  these  establishments  which	 areinherently different by their very nature are treated as oneand  the same, anomalous position may arise in dealing	withthe  employees in the quarries in matters of misconduct	 andsuch other things if there is a pendency of a dispute in theCement	Works and vice versa.  Obviously, the  employees  ofthe Cement Works have to be dealt with by the State Tribunalwhile the employees of the quarries by the Central Tribunal.This also nullifies the force of the management's contentionthat both are parts of the same establishment.	 Consideringthese  it  has	to  be	held  that  the	 contention  of	 themanagement fails and that of the Union must prevail."We  now	 revert	 to the contention urged on  behalf  of	 therespondent  that  this appeal should be disposed of  on	 thefooting that the final conclusion of the Industrial Tribunalis  a finding of fact.	The judgment of the Tribunal  itselfshows that the final conclusion was arrived at by a  processof  reasoning  which  involved a  consideration	 of  severalprovisions of the Act and some provisions of the Mines	Act,1952.  The Tribunal accepted a major portion, if not all, ofthe  evidence of Mr. Dongray; but it felt compelled to	holdagainst the appellant despite that evidence by reason of an714anomalous  position  which, it thought, would arise  if	 thefactory	 and the quarry were held to be	 one  establishment.The  question  before  the Tribunal, and this  is  also	 thequestion  before  us, was the true scope and effect  of	 cl.(iii) of s. 25E of the Act, with particular reference to theexpression  "  in  another  part  of  the  establishment   "occurring therein.  That question was not a pure question offact,  as  it involved a consideration of  the	tests  whichshould	be applied in determining whether a particular	unitis part of a bigger establishment.  Indeed, it is true	thatfor  the application of the tests certain preliminary  factsmust  be  found;  but  the  final  conclusion  to  be  drawntherefrom  is not a mere question of fact.  Learned  counselfor the respondent is not, therefore, justified in asking usto  adopt  the short cut of disposing of the appeal  on	 thefooting that a finding of fact should not be-disturbed in anappeal	by  special leave.  In this case we  cannot  relieveourselves  of  the task of determining the  true  scope	 andeffect	of  cl. (iii) of s. 25E by adopting  the  short	 cutsuggested by learned counsel.We  proceed now to consider what should be the proper  testsin  determining	 what  is meant by "  one  establishment  ".Learned	 counsel for the respondent has suggested  that	 thetest  has  been laid down by the Legislature itself  in	 theExplanation to s. 25A of the Act.  That Explanation states:-"  In  this  section  and in  sections	25C,  25D  and	25E,"industrial establishment " means-(i)  a factory as defined in clause (m) of section 2 of	 theFactories Act, 1948; or(ii) a	mine  as defined in clause (j) of section 2  of	 theMines	  Act, 1952; or(iii)	  a plantation as defined in clause (f ) of  section2 of the Plantations Labour Act, 1951."The  argument is that the Explanation states in clear  termswhat  an industrial establishment means in certain  sectionsof the Act including s. 25E, and on a proper construction itnegatives  the idea of a factory and a mineforming parts  ofone  establishment.   Curiously	 enough,  s.  25E  does	 notcontain the715expression  "industrial establishment".	 It uses the word  "establishment " only.  We agree, however, that if s. 25E  isread  with s. 25C and the definition of " layoff " in  s.  2(kkk)  of  the	Act,  as  it  must  be	read,  the  word   "establishment  "  in s. 25E has reference to  an  industrialestablishment.	On the footing that the word " establishment" in s. 25E means an industrial establishment, what then  isthe  effect  of	 the Explanation ?  The	 contention  of	 therespondent is that an industrial establishment may be eithera factory as defined in clause (m) of s. 2. of the FactoriesAct,  1948, or a mine as defined in cl. (j) of s. 2  of	 theMines Act, 1952, or a plantation as defined in cl. (f) of s.2  of the Plantations Labour Act, 1951; but it cannot  be  acombination   of  any  two  of	the  aforesaid	 categories;therefore, a factory and a mine together, as in the  presentcase, cannot form one establishment.  This argument proceedson  the assumption that the Explanation while  stating	whatundertakings  or  enterprises come within the  expression  "industrial establishment " necessarily lays down the test of'one establishment' also.  We do not think that there is anywarrant for this assumption.  The Explanation only gives themeaning	 of the expression " industrial establishment "	 forcertain sections of the Act; it does not purport to lay downany  test as to what constitutes one ' establishment'.	 Letus  take,  for	example,  a  factory  which  has   differentdepartments in which manufacturing processes are carried  onwith  the aid of power.	 Each department, if it employs	 tenor more workmen, is a factory within the meaning of cl.	 (m)of s. 2 of the Factories Act, 1948; so is the entire factorywhere 1,000 workmen may be employed.  The Explanation merelystates	that  an undertaking of the nature of a	 factory  asdefined in cl. (m) of s. 2 of the Factories Act, 1948, is anindustrial establishment.  It has no bearing on the questionif  in	the example taken, the factory as a  whole  or	eachdepartment  thereof should be treated as one  establishment.That  question must be determined on  other  considerations,because	 the Explanation does not deal with the question  ofone establishment.  In our view, the true scope and effect716of  the	 Explanation is that it	 explains  what	 categories,factory, mine or plantation, come within the meaning of	 theexpression  " industrial establishment " ; it does not	dealwith  the question as to what constitutes one  establishmentand  lays down no tests for determining that  question.	  Wecannot,	 therefore, accept the argument of  learned  counselfor  the respondent that a factory and a mine, a mine  whichsupplies  the raw material to the factory, can never be	 oneestablishment  under  the Act; that we do not think  is	 theeffect of the Explanation to s. 25A.The  Act  not  having  prescribed  any	specific  tests	 fordetermining  what is 'one establishment', we must fall	backon  such  considerations as in the  ordinary  industrial  orbusiness   sense  determine  the  unity	 of  an	  industrialestablishment,	having	regard no doubt to  the	 scheme	 andobject of the Act and other relevant provisions of the MinesAct,  1952, or the Factories Act, 1948.	 What then is '	 oneestablishment' in the ordinary industrial or business  sense?  The	question of unity or oneness  presents	difficultieswhen the industrial establishment consists of parts,  units,departments, branches etc.  If it is strictly unitary in thesense  of  having one location and one unit only,  there  islittle	difficulty in saying that it is	 one  establishment.Where,	however,  the  industrial  undertaking	has   parts,branches, departments, units etc. with different  locations,near  or distant, the question arises what tests  should  beapplied	   for	  determining	 what	 constitutes	'oneestablishment'.	  Several  tests  were referred	 to  in	 thecourse	of  arguments  before  us,  such  as,	geographicalproximity, unity of ownership, management and control, unityof   employment	 and  conditions  of   service,	  functionalintegrality, general unity of purpose etc.  To most of thesewe  have  referred  while summarising the  evidence  of	 Mr.Dongray	 ,and the findings of the Tribunal thereon.  It	 is,perhaps, impossible to lay down any one test as an  absoluteand  invariable	 test for all cases.  The  real	 purpose  ofthese  tests  is to find out the true relation	between	 theparts, branches, units etc.  If in their true relation	theyconstitute one integrated whole, we say717that  the establishment is one; if on the contrary  they  donot  constitute	 one integrated whole, each unit is  then  aseparate  unit.	 How the relation between the units will  bejudged must depend on the facts proved, having regard to thescheme	and object of the statute which gives the  right  ofunemployment	 compensation	 and	 also	  prescribesdisqualification  therefor.  Thus, in one case the unity  ofownership, management and control may be the important test;in another case functional integrality or general unity	 maybe  the	 important  test; and in  still	 another  case,	 theimportant test may be the unity of employment.	Indeed, in alarge  number  of  cases several tests	may  fall  for	con-sideration  at	the same time.	The difficulty	of  applyingthese  tests  arises because of the complexities  of  modernindustrial   organisation;   many   enterprises	  may	havefunctional   integrality   between   factories	 which	 areseparately owned; some may be integrated in part with  unitsor  factories  having the same ownership and -in  part	withfactories  or plants which are independently owned.  In	 themidst  of  all	these complexities it may  be  difficult  todiscover the real thread of unity.  In an American  decision(Donald	 L. Nordling v. Ford Motor Company (1)) there is  anexample	 of  an industrial product consisting of,  3,800  or4,000 parts, about 900 of which came out of one plant;	somecame  from other plants owned by the same Company and  stillothers came from plants independently owned, and a  shutdowncaused by a strike-or other labour dispute at any one of theplants	might conceivably cause a closure of the main  plantor factory.Fortunately  for  us,  such  complexities  do  not   presentthemselves  in the case under our consideration.  We do	 notsay  that  it is usual in industrial practice, to  have	 oneestablishment  consisting  of a factory and a mine;  but  wehave  to remember the special facts of this case  where	 theadjacent limestone quarry supplies the raw material,  almostexclusively, to the factory ; the quarry is indeed a  feederof  the factory and without limestone from the	quarry,	 thefactory cannot function.  Ours is a case where all the testsare fulfilled,(1)  (1950) 28 A.L.R., 2d. 272.91718as shown from the evidence given on behalf of the  appellantto  which  we  have earlier referred.  There  are  unity  ofownership,  unity  of management, supervision  and  control,unity  of  finance  and	 employment,  unity  of	 labour	 andconditions  of service of workmen,  functional	integrality,general	 unity	of purpose and geographical  proximity.	  Weshall  presently deal with the legal difficulties  at  whichthe  Tribunal has hinted and which have been  elaborated  bylearned	 counsel for the respondent.  But apart	 from  them,the  only fair conclusion from the facts proved in the	caseis that the Chaibasa Cement Works consisting of the  factoryand  the  limestone  quarry  form  one	establishment.	 Theexistence  of  two sets of Standing Orders  and	 a  separateattendance  register for the limestone quarry  have  alreadybeen adverted to.  They have been sufficiently explained  byMr.  Dongray,  particularly  the existence of  two  sets  ofStanding  Orders by reason of the statutory  requirement  ofapproval  by  different authorities-one set  by	 the  LabourCommissioner,  Bihar,  and  other by  the  relevant  Centralauthority.We  proceed  now to consider the  legal	 difficulties  whichaccording to learned counsel for the respondent stand in theway of treating the limestone quarry and the factory as	 oneestablishment.	 The  Tribunal has merely  hinted  at  thesedifficulties by saying that an anomalous position will ariseif   the  quarry  and  the  factory  are  treated   as	 oneestablishment.	 It  is necessary to refer  briefly  to	 thescheme	 and   object  of  lay-off  compensation   and	 thedisqualifications  therefor  as envisaged  by  the  relevantprovisions  in	Chapter	 VA of the Act.	  That	chapter	 wasinserted  by the Industrial Disputes (Amendment)  Act,	1953(43 of 1953), which came into effect from October 24,  1953.The  right of workmen to lay-off compensation  is  obviouslydesigned to relieve the hardship caused by unemployment	 dueto  no fault of the employee; involuntary unemployment	alsocauses	dislocation  of	 trade and  may	 result	 in  generaleconomic  insecurity.	Therefore,  the right  is  based  ongrounds of humane public policy and the statute which  givessuch right should be719liberally  construed,  and  when  there	 are   disqualifyingprovisions,  the  latter should be construed  strictly	withreference  to the words used therein.  Now, s. 25 gives	 theright, and there are three disqualifying clauses in s.	25E.They  show  that  the basis of	the  right  to	unemploymentcompensation  is  that the unemployment is  involuntary;  inother  words, due to no fault of the  employees	 themselves;that  is  why no unemployment compensation is  payable	whensuitable  alternative employment is offered and the  workmanrefuses to accept it as in cl. (1) of s. 25E ; or the  work-man  does not present himself for work at the  establishmentas in cl. (ii); or when the laying-off is due to the  strikeor  slowing  down of production on the part  of	 workmen  inanother	  part	of  the	 establishment	as  in	cl.   (iii).Obviously,  the	 last  clause treats the  work	men  in	 oneestablishment as one class and a strike of slow-down by someresulting  in the laying-off of other  workmen	disqualifiesthe    workmen	 laid-off   from    claiming	unemploymentcompensation, the reason being that the unemployment is	 notreally involuntary.It  is against this background of the scheme and  object  ofthe  relevant  provisions  of the Act  that  were  must	 nowconsider the -legal difficulties alleged by the	 respondent.The  first difficulty is said to arise out of s. 17  of	 theMines  Act,  1952.  That section says in effect	 that  everymine   shall   be   under  a   Manager	 having	  prescribedqualifications	who  shall be responsible for  the  control,management and direction of the mine; it is then pointed outthat  the word 'agent' in relation to a mine means a  personwho  acts as the representative of the owner in	 respect  ofthe management of the mine and who is superior to a Manager.The argument is that the limestone quarry at Rajanka had a 'Manager' under the Mines Act, 1952, and Mr. Dongray acted asthe  agent, that is, representative of the owner, viz.,	 theCompany;  and this arrangement which was in consonance	withthe  provisions of the Mines Act, 1952, it is  argued,	madethe factory and the quarry two separate establishments.	  Weare  unable to accept this argument as correct.	 We  do	 notthink that s. 17 of the Mines Act, 1952, has any relevance720to  the question whether the limestone quarry was part of  abigger	establishment.	It prescribes the appointment  of  aManager	 for purposes of the Mines Act, 1952, and  does	 notdeal  with  the question of 'one establishment'	 within	 themeaning	 of cl. (iii) of s. 25E of the Act.  The  fact	thatthe  quarry  Manager worked under the  overall	control	 andsupervision  of Mr. Dongray showed, on the facts  proved  inthis case, just the contrary of what learned counsel for therespondent  has contended ; it showed that the	factory	 andthe quarry were treated as one establishment.The  second  difficulty	 is said to  arise  out	 of  certainprovisions  of the Act which relate to the  constitution  ofBoards of Conciliation, Courts of Inquiry, Labour Courts andTribunals and the reference of industrial disputes to  thesebodies for settlement, inquiry or adjudication.	 The  schemeof the Act is that except in the case of National  Tribunalswhich	are  appointed	by  the	 Central   Government,	 theappropriate  Government makes the appointment of  Boards  ofConciliation, Courts of Inquiry, Labour Courts and Tribunalsand it is the appropriate Government which makes the  refer-ence   under  s.  10  of  the  Act.   Now,  the	  expressionappropriate Government is defined in s. 2(a) of the Act.  Sofar as it is relevant for our purpose, it means the  CentralGovernment  in relation to the limestone quarry	 at  Rajankaand the State Government of Bihar in relation to the factoryat  Jhinkpani.	We had stated earlier in this judgment	thatin   this  very	 case  the  original  dispute  between	 themanagement  and	 the  workmen in the  limestone	 quarry	 wasreferred  to  the  Central Tribunal at	Dhanbad,  while	 thelatter dispute about lay-off compensation to workmen of	 thefactory	 was  referred	by the Government of  Bihar  to	 theIndustrial  Tribunal  at Patna.	 The argument before  us  isthat  when the statute itself brings the two units,  factoryand  mine,  under  different  authorities,  they  cannot  betreated	 as one establishment for the purposes of  the	samestatute.   Our attention has also been drawn to s. 18(3)  ofthe  Act under which in certain circumstances, a  settlementarrived	 at in the course of conciliation proceedings  underthe Act or an award of721a Labour Court or Tribunal is made binding " on all  personswho  were  employed  in the establishment  or  part  of	 theestablishment,	as  the case may be, to	 which	the  disputerelates	 on  the  date of the dispute and  all	persons	 whosubsequently become employed in that establishment or part."It is contended that it will be difficult to apply s.  18(3)if  the factory and the limestone quarry are treated as	 oneestablishment.	 Lastly, learned counsel for the  respondenthas  referred  us to s. 33 of the Act.	Sub-section  (1)  ofthat  section,	in  substance, lays  down  that	 during	 thependency   of  any  conciliation  proceedings  or   of	 anyproceeding  before a Labour Court or Tribunal in respect  ofany   industrial  dispute,  no	employer  shall	 alter	 theconditions of service to the prejudice of workmen or  punishany  workmen,  save with the permission in  writing  of	 theauthority  before  which the proceeding	 is  pending.	Sub-sections (2) and (3) we need not reproduce, because for	 thepurposes  of this _ appeal, the argument is the same,  whichis  that  if  a	 proceeding  is	 pending  before  a  CentralTribunal, say in respect of the limestone quarry, there willbe difficulty in applying the provisions of s. 33 in respectof  workmen in the factory over which the  Central  Tribunalwill have no jurisdiction.  The Industrial Tribunal did	 notspecifically  refer  to these provisions, but  perhaps,	 hadthem  in mind when it said that an anomalous position  wouldarise  if  the factory and the quarry were  treated  as	 oneestablishment.We  have  given	 our most  earnest  consideration  to  thesearguments, but are unable to hold that they should  prevail.It  is	indeed true that in the matter	of  constitution  ofBoards of Conciliation, Courts of Inquiry, Labour Courts andTribunals and also in the matter of reference of  industrialdisputes  to  them, and perhaps for  certain  other  limitedpurposes,  the	Act  gives  jurisdiction  to  two   distinctauthorities,  the  Central  Government	in  respect  of	 thelimestone quarry and the State Government in respect of	 thefactory.   The	short  question	 is-does  this	duality'  ofjurisdiction,  dichotomy one may call it, necessarily  implythat for all purposes of the Act, and particularly for722payment	 of unemployment compensation as per the  provisionsin  Ch.	 VA, the factory and the quarry must be	 treated  asseparate  establishments.   We are unable to find  any	suchnecessary  implication.	  There is no provision in  the	 Actwhich  says that the existence of two jurisdictions has	 theconsequence  contended	for  by	 learned  counsel  for	 therespondent;  nor  do  we find  anything	 in  the  provisionscreating two jurisdictions which by reason of the  principleunderlying  them  or by their very nature give	rise  to  animplication  in law that the existence of two  jurisdictionsmeans the existence of two separate establishments.  On	 thecontrary,  such	 an  implication or  inference	will  be  atvariance   with	 the  scheme  and  object  of	unemploymentcompensation as provided for by the provisions in Ch.  VA ofthe  Act.   We have pointed out earlier that the  object  ofunemployment  compensation is to relieve hardship caused  byinvoluntary  unemployment, that is, unemployment not due  toany  fault  of the employees.  If in the  ordinary  businesssense the industrial establishment is one, a lay-off of someof the workmen in that establishment as a result of a strikeby  some other workmen in the same establishment  cannot  becharacterised  as  involuntary unemployment.  To  hold	thatsuch  an  establishment must be divided	 into  two  separateparts by reason of the existence of two jurisdictions is  toimport	an  artificiality  for which we think  there  is  nojustification in the provisions of the Act.Nor  do	 we  think that ss. 18(3) and 33  present  any	realdifficulty.  Section 18(3) clearly contemplates a settlementor an award which is binding on a part of the establishment.It  says  so in express terms.	If, therefore, in  the	casebefore	us there is a settlement or award in respect of	 thelimestone  quarry, it will be binding in  the  circumstancesmentioned in the subsection, on the workmen in that part  ofthe establishment which is the limestone quarry.  Similarly,a  settlement  or award in respect of the  factory  will  bebinding	 on the workmen of the factory.	 Section 33, as	 faras it is relevant for the argument now under  consideration,is in two parts.  Sub-section (1) relates723to a matter connected with the dispute in respect of which aproceeding is pending.	Sub-section (2) relates to a  matternot  connected	with  the dispute in respect  of  which	 theproceeding  is	pending.   In one  case	 permission  of	 theauthority  before which the proceeding is pending has to  beobtained  for  punishing  etc.	;  in  the  other  case,  anapplication for approval of the action taken by the employerhas to be made.	 We see no difficulty in applying s. 33 in acase  like the one before us.  For workmen in the mine,	 theauthority   will  be  the  one	appointed  by  the   CentralGovernment;  for  the factory, the authority  will  be	thatappointed  by  the  State  Government.	 This  is  the	sameargument  as  the argument of two jurisdictions	 in  anotherform.  The assumption is that there cannot be two  jurisdic-tions for two parts of one establishment.  This argument  isvalid, if the assumption is correct.  If, however, there  isno  warrant  for the assumption, as we have  held  there  isnone, then the argument has no legs to stand upon.So far we have dealt with the case irrespective of and apartfrom reported decisions, because there is no decision  whichreally	covers the point in controversy before us.   Learnedcounsel	 for the appellant has referred to the decisions  inHoyle v. Cram (1) and Coles v. Dickinson (2 ). The  questionin the first case was if the appellants there were liable tobe convicted of an offence against the Bleaching Works	Act,23  and	 24  Vict. c. 78 in employing the  child  without  aschool	master's  certificate.	 It was held  that  a  childemployed  on  the premises where the bleaching,	 dyeing	 andfinishing  were	 performed  was employed  in  an  incidentalprinting process within the second section of 8 and 9  Vict.c.  29; and that the place where he was so  employed  formedpart  of  "  the establishment where the  chief	 process  ofprinting  was carried on " within the meaning of  that	Act.The  decision proceeded mainly on the words of the  statute;but Earle, C.J., said:"  It appears that the works at Mayfield having	 some  yearsago become inadequate, by reason of the(1)  (1862) 12 C.B. (N.S.) 125; 142 E.R. 1090.(2)  (1864) 16 C.B.(N.S.) 604; 143 E.R. 1264.724increase  of  the  business and	 by  the  detorioration	 anddeficiency of the water of the river Medlock, the appellantstransferred part of their works to Sandy Vale: but that	 theprincipal  part	 of the work continued to be carried  on  atMayfield,  which was the principal seat of the firm.   In  acommercial sense, therefore, Sandy Vale clearly was part  ofone   entire  establishment.   It  was	contended  for	 therespondent  that the statute did not mean forming part in  acommercial  sense, but in a popular and local sense.  But  Isee no reason for confining the meaning to local  proximity.The whole substantially forms one establishment."In  the	 second	 case the question was this :  by  the	73rdsection	 of  7 and 8 Vict. c. 15, premises  which  are	usedsolely	for the manufacture of paper were excluded from	 theoperation of the Factory Acts; there were two mills, one  atManchester  and the other in Hertfordshire.  The  Manchestermill  prepared what was called half-stuff which was sent  tothe mill in Hertfordshire to be manufactured into paper, andthe  question was if the Manchester mill was  exempted	fromthe operation of the Factory Acts.  The answer given was  inthe  affirmative.   It	was stated that	 each  step  in	 theprocess	 was  a step in the manufacture of  paper,  and	 thedistance between the two places where the several parts werecarried on was wholly immaterial in view of the words of thestatute.The  last decision to which our attention has been drawn  isthe  American decision in Donald L. Nordling v.	 Ford  MotorCompany	 (1).  This decision is perhaps more in point as  itrelated	 to unemployment compensatiOn.	The statute in	thatcase  provided	that  an individual  losing  his  employmentbecause	 of  a	strike or other	 labour	 dispute  should  bedisqualified  during its process " at the  establishment  inwhich he is or was employed ". The claimants there had	beenemployed at a Minnesota automobile assembly plant which	 waspartially  shut	 down because of a lack of parts  due  to  astrike	at a manufacturing plant owned and operated  by	 thesame  corporation in Michigan.	The Minnesota Supreme  Courtto which an application was made for(1)  (1950) 28 A.L.R. 2d. 272.725a  certiorari  to review a decision of the director  of	 thedivision of employment and security reviewed the tests whichhave generally been applied for determining what is meant bythe term ' establishment' within the meaning of the  statuteconcerned;  it pointed out that there was no  uniformity  ofdecision on the question and it was not possible to lay downan  absolute or invariable test.  The decision was based  onthe broader ground that the tests of functional integrality,general	 unity	and physical proximity should all  be  takeninto  consideration in determining the ultimate question  ofwhether	 a factory, plant or unit of a larger industry is  aseparate establishment within the meaning of the  employmentand  security  law.  The test which was emphasized  in	thatcase  was  the test of the unity of employment and  on	thatfooting it was found that the evidence was ample to  supportthe  director's	 finding  that the  Minnesota  plant  was  aseparate establishment.We  do not think that these decisions carry the	 matter	 anyfurther than what we have explained in earlier paragraphs ofthis judgment.	We must have regard to the provisions of thestatute under which the question falls to be considered;  ifthe  statute  itself says what is  one	establishment,	thenthere  is no difficulty.  If the statute does not,  however,say what constitutes one establishment, then the usual testshave  to be applied to determine the true  relation  betweenthe  parts, branches etc., namely, whether  they  constituteone  integrated	 whole or not.	No particular  test  can  beadopted	 as an absolute test in all cases of this  type	 andthe  word  'establishment' is not to be given  the  sweepingdefinition  of one organisation of which it is capable,	 butrather	is  to	be construed in	 the  ordinary	business  orcommercial sense.For  the reasons which we have already given, we are of	 theview  that the learned Chairman of the	Industrial  Tribunalwrongly	 held that the limestone quarry at Rajanka  and	 thefactory	 at Jhinkpani were separate establishments.  In	 ourview, they constituted one establishment within the  meaningof cl. (iii) of92726s.25E of the Act.  It was conceded on behalf the  respondentworkmen that the lay-off in the factory was due to the	non-supply of limestone by reason of the strike in the limestonequarry and the strike was decided on by the same Union whichconsisted  of  the workmen at the factory  and	the  quarry.That  being the position, the disqualification in cl.  (iii)aforesaid  clearly  applied and the workmen at	the  factorywere not entitled to claim lay-off compensation.The  result, therefore, is that the appeal succeeds  and  isallowed	 and  the award of the Industrial  Tribunal  is	 setaside.	 In  the  circumstances	 of  the  case	in  which  adifficult question of interpretation arose for decision	 forthe first time, we pass no order as to costs.Appeal allowed.