PETITIONER:INAMATI MALLAPPA BASAPPA	Vs.RESPONDENT:DESAI BASAVARAJ AYYAPPA & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/04/1958BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.KAPUR, J.L.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  698		  1959 SCR  611ACT:       Election	 Petition-Claim for seat-Recrimination, when  right       accrues-Abandonment  of	claim  for  seat,  if  permissible-       Whether abandonment a affects right of recrimination-Code of       Civil   Procedure   (Act	   V  of  1908),  O.   23,   r. 1.-       Representation of the People Act, 1951 (27 Of 1951), ss.	 90       and 97.HEADNOTE:A, the unsuccessful candidate at an election, filed an elec-tion petition against B, the successful candidate,  claiminga declaration' that the election of B was void and that	 liehad  been  duly elected as he had secured the  next  highestnumber	of  valid votes.  On the first date of	the  hearingbefore	the  Election Tribunal A  submitted  an	 applicationunder 0. 23, r. 1, of the Code of Civil Procedure abandoningthe relief claiming the seat.  B objected to the abandonmentand  filed  a  notice of recrimination under s.	 97  of	 theRepresentation	of the People Act, 1951, accompanied by	 thestatement and necessary particulars.  A contended that B wasnot entitled to give evidence in recrimination as the  claimfor the seat had been abandoned.  The Tribunal held that  s.90(1)  of the Act had made the procedure prescribed  by	 theCode  of  Civil	 Procedure  applicable	to  proceedings	  inelection petitions and as such A had a right under 0. 23, r.1,  of	the Code to abandon a part of his claim and  that  Ahaving	abandoned  his claim for the seat B  was  no  longerentitled to recriminateHeld, that the provisions of the Act constitute a  self-con-tained code governing the trial of an election petition	 andin  -spite of s. 90(1) of the Act, the provisions 0. 23,  r.1, of the Code of Civil Procedure were not applicable to thetrial  of an election petition by the Tribunal ; and it	 wasnot  open  to A to withdraw or abandon a part of  his  claimonce an election petition had been presented to the ElectionCommission,   particularly   when  such	 a   withdrawal	  orabandonment of a part of the claim would have had the effectof  depriving  B  of the right of  recrimination  which	 hadaccrued	 to  him  under	 s. 97 Of the  Act.   The  right  ofrecrimination accrued to B the moment the election  petitionwas  presented	to the Election	 Commission  containing	 theclaim for 'the seat, and it was not open to A to defeat thisright by withdrawing or abandoning the claim for the seat.An election petition once filed does not mean a contest onlybetween the parties thereto but continues for the benefit ofthe  whole constituency and cannot come to an end merely  bythe  withdrawal	 thereof by the petitioner or  even  by	 hisdeath or78612by  the death or withdrawal of opposition by the  respondentbut  is liable to be continued by any person who might	havebeen a petitioner.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 76 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  26, 1957, of the Election Tribunal,	Dharwar,  inElection Petition No. 52 of 1957.G.   S.	 Pathak,  H. J. Umrigar and G. C.  Mathur,  for	 theappellant.P.   Ram Reddy, for respondent No. 1.G.   S. Pathak and S., S. Shukla, for the interveners.1958.  April 22.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byBHAGWATI  J.-This is the 4th of the series of Civil  Appealsbefore	us arising out of election petitions  and  involvingthe   interpretation  of  the  relevant	 sections   of	 theRepresentation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referredto  as " the Act ").  The decision of this appeal  turns  onthe  construction  of  s. 97 'of the Act  and  also  on	 thejurisdiction  of the Election Tribunals to allow  withdrawalor abandonment of part of the claims before them.The  appellant	and respondents 1 to 3 were  the  contestingcandidates  for election to the Mysore Legislative  Assemblyfrom the Dharwar Constituency in the last General Elections.The  appellant	was  the Congress candidate  and  the  firstrespondent  was the candidate of the Lok Sevak Sangh  party.The  result of the election was declared on March  3,  1957,and  the  appellant was declared elected by  a	majority  of1,727  votes.  On April 14, 1957, the first respondent	pre-sented to the Election Commission a Petition, being ElectionPetition  No.  52  of 1957 under s. 80 of  the	Act  whereinbesides	 claiming  a declaration that the  election  of	 theappellant was void he claimed a further declaration that he,the  first  respondent,	 had been duly	elected	 as  he	 hadsecured	 the  next  highest  number  of	 valid	votes.	 TheElection Petition was published in613the  official gazette and was then referred to the  ElectionTribunal for trial.  'The appellant and the respondents Nos.2  and	3  received a notice from  the	Election  Commissionrequiring  them to appear before the Tribunal on  or  beforeJuly  20,  1957.   On the said date,  the  first  respondentsubmitted before the Election Tribunal what purported to  bean  application	 under	0. 23, r. 1, of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure  to the following effect :" The petitioner hereby	 abandons part of his claim namely "that  it  be further declared that the petitioner  has	beenduly elected as the petitioner has secured the next  highestnumber of valid votes.	" The petitioner confines his claim,therefore, to have the election of respondent No. 1 declaredvoid and to have costs of the proceedings awarded to him.  "On July 25, 1957, the appellant filed his objections to	 thesaid  application contending inter alia, that by  reason  ofthe  fact  that	 the first respondent  had  claimed  in	 hisElection  Petition a declaration that he was  duly  elected,the  appellant	and the other respondents  to  the  ElectionPetition  had  acquired a right under s. 97 of the  Act,  tofile  recrimination against the first respondent subject  ofcourse to compliance with the necessary statutory provisionsin  that behalf, and that such right to	 file  recriminationcould  not be affected by the purported abandonment  of	 therelief	by  the first respondent.  On July  29,	 1957,.	 theappellant gave notice of his recrimination under s. 97.	 Thesaid  notice was accompanied by the statement and  necessaryparticulars as required by s. 97 read with s. 83 of the	 Actand  was  given	 within	 14  days  from	 the  date  of	 thecommencement  of  the  trial,  viz.,  July  20,	 1957.	 Theparticulars of corrupt practices under s. 123(1) (a) and (b)and  s.	 123(6)	 of  the Act thus  given  by  the  appellantcomprised  corrupt practices of bribery and using  of  motorvehicles  for the conveyance of voters to the poll which  ifproved	would have led to his disqualification for  standingas  a candidate and from. being a member of the	 Legislaturefor  a period of six years counting from the date  on  whichthe  finding  of the Election Tribunal as to  such  practicetook effect under the Act (Vide s. 140).614On  August 1, 1957, the first respondent filed an  objectionto  the	 above-mentioned  notice  under	 s.  97	 wherein  hecontended inter alia that the appellant was not entitled  togive  evidence	in recrimination as the	 claim	for  furtherdeclaration  had  been abandoned by him.  There had  been  avacancy for a Legislative Assembly seat from a	neighbouringconstituency on account of the death of Shri B. R.  Tambakadon  June 26, 1957, and the first respondent decided to	con-test the election in the vacancy, filed his nomination paperfor  the  said vacancy on September 17,1957,  and  was	dulyelected	 on  October  16, 1957, as a member  of	 the  MysoreLegislative Assembly from the Kalaghatgi Constituency.The  application of the first respondent under 0. 23, r.  1,of the Code of Civil Procedure., the notice of recriminationgiven  by the appellant under s. 97 and the objection  filedby  the	 first respondent to the same came  up	for  hearingbefore	the  Election Tribunal, Dharwar,  and  the  Tribunalframed the following issues:-"  (1) Whether the 1st respondent is entitled to  abandon  apart of his claim in the manner he has done ?(2)  If	 so, whether the appellant will be entitled to	givenotice to the Tribunal of his intention to give evidence  toprove  that the election of the first respondent would	havebeen void if he had been the returned candidate ?(3)  Whether  the  notice  of  recrimination  given  by	 theappellant is barred by limitation ? "The  Tribunal  held that by virtue of the provisions  of  s.90(1)  of  the Act the procedure prescribed by the  Code  ofCivil  Procedure had been made applicable to proceedings  inelection  petitions and as such under the provisions  of  0.23,  r.	 1,  of	 the  Code  of	Civil  Procedure  the  firstrespondent  had a right to abandon a part of his claim.	  Itfurther held that in view of the abandonment of part of	 theclaim by the first respondent, viz., that he be declared  asthe  duly  elected  candidate,	neither	 the  appellant	 norrespondents Nos. 2 and 3 would be entitled to give notice ofrecrimination under615s.   97 and consequently the appellant would not be entitledto  give  evidence to prove that the election of  the  firstrespondent would have been void if he had been the  returnedcandidate.   It also held that the notice  of  recriminationgiven  by  the	appellant  was	not  barred  by	 limitation,inasmuch as -under explanation to s. 90(4) the trial of	 thepetition  was deemed to commence on the date fixed  for	 theappellant and the respondents Nos. 2 and 3 to appear  beforethe  Tribunal,	viz.,  July  20, 1957,	and  the  notice  ofrecrimination had been given by the appellant within 14 daysthereof.   The	 Tribunal  accordingly	ordered	  that	 theabandonment  of	 a part of his claims  aforesaid  should  benoted on the petition and further ordered that the appellantcould  not give evidence to prove that the election  of	 thefirst  respondent  would have been void if he had  been	 thereturned  candidate inasmuch as on the abandonment  of	thatpart of the claim by the first respondent the  recriminationput in by the appellant did not survive.The appellant applied for and obtained on January 13,  1958,from  this Court special leave to appeal under Art.  136  ofthe  Constitution  to  appeal against the  decision  of	 theElection  Tribunal and that is how this Civil Appeal No.  76of 1958 has come before us.Section 97 of the Act reads as under :-" Recrimination when, seat claimed: (1) When in an  electionpetition  a  declaration that any candidate other  than	 thereturned  candidate  has been duly elected is  claimed,	 thereturned  candidate or any other party may give evidence  toprove  that the election of such candidate would  have	beenvoid  if he bad been the returned candidate and	 a  petitionhad been presented calling in question his election:Provided that the returned candidate or such other party  asaforesaid shall not be entitled to give such evidence unlesshe   has,  within  fourteen  days  from	 the  date  of	 thecommencement  of the trial, given notice to the Tribunal  ofhis  intention to do so and has also given the security	 andthe  further  security referred to in sections 117  and	 118respectively.(2)  Every notice referred to in sub-section (1) shall616be accompanied by the statement and particulars required  bysection 83 in the case of an election petition and shall  besigned and verified in like manner.Under  the  terms of this section a right  of  recriminationaccrues to the returned candidate or any other party to	 theElection  Petition where the petitioner besides	 claiming  adeclaration that the election of all or any of the  returnedcandidates  is void, claims a further declaration  that	 anycandidate  other than the returned candidate has  been	dulyelected.  Would it then be open to the petitioner to abandonthat  part  of	'the  relief  which  claimed  such   furtherdeclaration  so as to deprive the returned candidate or	 anyother  party to the petition of the right  of  recriminationwhich  has thus accrued to him; or in other words,  has	 theElection  Tribunal  the	 power to allow	 the  petitioner  towithdraw  or abandon a part of his claim as  aforesaid	thusrendering  the exercise of the said right  of  recriminationnugatory ?It is necessary at the outset, therefore, to understand	 thenature	and  scope  of an Election Petition.   As  has	beenobserved  by  us  in the judgment just	delivered  in  CivilAppeals	 Nos. 763 & 764 of 1957 and Civil Appeal No.  48  of1958:-"  An election contest is not an action at law or a suit  inequity	but is a purely statutory proceeding unknown to	 thecommon law and that the court possesses no common law power."An  election  petition	is not a matter in  which  the	onlypersons	 interested are candidates who strove  against	eachother  at the elections.  The public also are  substantiallyinterested in it and this is not merely in the sense that anelection  has news value.  An election is an essential	partof the democratic process."..........................An election petition is not a suit between two persons,	 butis  a  proceeding in which the constituency  itself  is	 theprincipal party interested.617(Vide  Jagan  Nath v. Jaswant Singh (1), A.  Sreenivasan  v.Election Tribunal, Madras (2), The Tipperary case (3)).An Election Petition presented to the Election Commission isscrutinised  by it and if the Election Commission  does	 notdismiss it for want of compliance with the provisions of  s.81,  s.	 82 or s. 117 of the Act, it accepts  the  same	 andcauses	a  copy	 thereof to be	published  in  the  officialgazette	 and  a copy thereof to be served by  post  on	eachrespondent.   The respondents to the petition not  only	 getnotice of the same but the constituency as a whole  receivessuch  notice by publication thereof in the official  gazetteso  that  each and every voter of the constituency  and	 allparties	 interested  become duly aware of the fact  of	suchElection  Petition  having been presented.  A  copy  of	 theElection  Petition published in the official  gazette  wouldalso show to all of them that the petitioner in a particularElection  Petition,  in addition to claiming  a	 declarationthat  the election of all or any of the returned  candidatesis  void,  has also claimed a further  declaration  that  hehimself	 or any other candidate has been duly elected.	 Thewhole constituency is thus alive to the fact that the resultof  the	 election  duly declared is  questioned	 on  variousgrounds	 permitted  by law with the likely result  that	 theelection  of  all or any of the returned candidates  may  bedeclared void and the petitioner or any other candidate	 maybe declared duly elected, in place and stead of the returnedcandidate.  The constituency may have an interest in  eithermaintaining  the status quo or if perchance the election  ofthe  returned  candidate is set aside, in seeing  that	someother  deserving candidate is declared elected in his  placeand  stead and not necessarily the petitioner or  any  othercandidate   sponsored  by  him	whose  election	  could	  bechallenged on any of the grounds mentioned in s. 100(1).  Itis  this  interest  of the constituency	 as  a	whole  whichinvests the proceedings before the Election Tribunals with acharacteristic of their own and differentiates them from(1) [1954] S.C.R. 892, 895.  (2) (1955) II E.L.R.  278, 293.(3)  (1875) 3 O'M. & H. 19,23.618ordinary civil proceedings.  Once this process has been	 setin  motion by the petitioner he has released certain  forceswhich  even  he himself would not be able to recall  and  hewould  be bound to pursue the petition to its  logical	end.It may be that he may not be able to substantiate his  claimfor  a	declaration that the election of all or any  of	 thereturned  candidates  is void.	In that event  he  would  ofcourse	fail and no question would arise of his obtaining  afurther declaration that lie himself or any other  candidatehas been duly elected. All the grounds urged in the ElectionPetition against the returned candidates under s. 100(1)  ofthe Act would fail and the election would stand.  The voterswould  thus  be	 vindicated.  If  the  petitioner,  however,succeeds in establishing his first claim and the election ofthe returned candidate is declared void, the question  wouldnecessarily  arise when such a further declaration has	beenclaimed	 by  him whether he himself or any  other  candidateshould	be  declared  duly  elected.   In  that	 event,	 theoccasion would arise for considering whether the  petitionerhimself	 or any other candidate sponsored by him  should  bedeclared duly elected.	If the election of the petitioner orsuch  other candidate could have been challenged on  any  ofthe  grounds  mentioned	 in s. 100(1)  such  election  wouldcertainly have been void if he had been a returned candidateand the petition had been presented calling in question	 hiselection.  A recrimination could there. fore be filed by thereturned candidate or any other party to the petition  unders.   97.   The	requisite  notice  under  s.  97  would	  beaccompanied by the statement and particulars required by  s.83  in	the  case of an election  petition  and	 signed	 andverified in like manner. , This notice would be, in  effect,a  counter' petition presented by the returned candidate  orany other party to the petition accompanied by the statementand  particulars  required  by	s. 83 in  the  case  of	 ,inelection petition and would also be supported by the depositof security and further security referred to in ss. 117	 and118 of the Act.	 The election contest would then not only bebetween	 the  petitioner on the one hand  and  the  returnedcandidate on the other but619also  between the returned candidate or any other  party  tothe petition and the candidate who has been sponsored by thepetitioner  for	 such  election.   An  election	 contest  asaforesaid  would result in the declaration of  the  properlyqualified  candidate as duly elected and the maintenance  ofthe  purity of the elections in which the constituency as  awhole is vitally interested and no person would get  electedby  flagrant  breaches	of the election law  or	 by  corruptpractices.This is the purpose of a recrimination and the right to filea  recrimination  accrues to the returned candidate  or	 anyother party to the petition the moment an election  petitionis  presented containing a claim for a	further	 declarationthat the petitioner himself or any other candidate has	beenduly  elected.	 The  proviso  to  s.  97(1)  merely  enactsconditions  for the exercise of such right of  recriminationand  states that the returned candidate or such other  partyis  not to be entitled to give such evidence unless he	has,within	fourteen days from the date of commencement  of	 thetrial,	given notice to the Tribunal of his intention to  doso and has also given the security and the further  securityreferred  to  in  ss. 117 and 118  respectively.   If  theseconditions are fulfilled in the manner therein specified thereturned  candidate or such other party will be entitled  togive  such  evidence  which right of  course  would  not  becapable of being exercised if either of these two conditionshas not been fulfilled.	 The accrual of this right, however,is  not postponed till the fulfilment of  these	 conditions.It  accrues  the moment an election  petition  containing  aclaim  for  such  further declaration is  presented  to	 theElection Commission.If  once such a right has accrued to the returned  candidateor  any	 other	party to the petition,	can  that  right  beaffected  by the petitioner seeking to withdraw	 or  abandonthat  part  of	his  claim, viz.,  a  claim  for  a  furtherdeclaration that he himself or any other candidate has	beenduly elected ? If it were permissible for him to withdraw orabandon	 a part of his claim on the analogy of 0. 23, r.  1,of the Code of Civil Procedure,79620he would make a virtue of necessity and withdraw or  abandonthat  part of his claim so as to avoid any investigation  inthe  Election  Petition itself in regard to himself  or	 anyother  candidate  sponsored  by him on any  of	the  groundsmentioned  in s. 100(1) including corrupt  practices  withinthe  meaning  of  s.  123 which if  proved  would  entail  adisqualification  for  standing as a candidate or  even	 forvoting for a period of 6 years under ss. 140 and 141(b).So  far	 as withdrawal of petitions is concerned  there	 arespecific  provisions  enacted in the Act beginning  with  s.108.   Section	108 deals with the withdrawal  of  petitionsbefore	the  appointment of Tribunals and provides  that  anelection  petition  may be withdrawn only by  leave  of	 theElection Commission if an application for its withdrawal  ismade before any Tribunal has been appointed for the trial ofsuch  petition.	  Section 109 deals with the  withdrawal  ofpetitions after the appointment of Tribunals and enacts thatwhere an application for withdrawal of an election  petitionis made after a Tribunal has been appointed for the trial ofsuch  petition, the election petition may be withdrawn	onlyby leave of the Tribunal and a notice of such an applicationfixing	a date for the hearing of the application is  to  begiven  to  all other parties to the petition and  is  to  bepublished  in the official gazette.  Section 110  prescribesthe  procedure	for  withdrawal	 of  petitions	before	 theElection  Commission or the Tribunal and s. 110(2)  providesthat  no application for withdrawal is to be, granted if  inthe  opinion of the Election Commission or of the  Tribunal,as the case may be, such application has been induced by anybargain or consideration which ought not to be allowed.	  Ifsuch an application is granted, notice of the withdrawal  isto  be	published in the official gazette  by  the  ElectionCommission  or	by the Tribunal as the case may	 be;  and  aperson who might himself have been a petitioner may,  withinfourteen days of such publication apply to be substituted aspetitioner  in	-place of the party  withdrawing,  and	uponcompliance with the conditions of s. 117 as to security,  isto  be	entitled to be so substituted and  to  continue	 theproceedings621upon  such  terms as the Tribunal may think  fit.   When  anapplication for withdrawal is granted by the Tribunal and noperson	has been substituted as, petitioner in place of	 theparty  withdrawing as above, the Tribunal is to	 report	 thefact  to the Election Commission and thereupon the  ElectionCommission shall publish the report in the official gazette.This  will ring the curtain on the election contest and	 theresult of the election which has been duly declared will  nomore be liable to be disturbed.There  are also provisions enacted in the Act which  providefor the consequences of the death of a sole petitioner or ofthe  survivor  of  several  petitioners	 or  the  death	  orwithdrawal  of	opposition by the sole	respondent  therein.Section	 112 provides that an election petition shall  abateon  the	 death of a sole petitioner or of  the	survivor  ofseveral	 petitioners.  If an election petition	thus  abatesbefore	a Tribunal has been appointed for the trial  of	 thepetition, notice of the abatement shall be published in	 theofficial  gazette by the Election Commission (Vide s.  113).If  on	the other hand an election petition abates  after  aTribunal  has been appointed for the trial of the  petition,notice of the abatement has to be published in the  officialgazette by the Tribunal (Vide s. 114).	The death of a	solepetitioner  or	of  the	 survivor  of  several	petitioners,however,  does not spell the termination of the	 proceedingsand s. 115 provides that after a notice of the abatement  ofan election petition is published under s. 113 or s. 114 anyperson who might himself have been a petitioner may,  withinfourteen  days of such publication, apply to be	 substitutedas petitioner and upon compliance with the conditions of  s.117  as to security shall be entitled to be  so	 substitutedand  to	 continue  the proceedings upon such  terms  as	 theTribunal  may think fit.  The position as it obtains on	 thedeath or withdrawal of opposition by a respondent is  workedout  in s. 116 which provides that if before the  conclusionof  the	 trial of an election petition the  sole  respondentdies  or gives notice that he does not intend to oppose	 thepetition or any of the respondents dies or gives such noticeand622there  is no other respondent who is opposing  the  petitionthe  Tribunal  shall  cause  notice  of	 such  event  to  bepublished in the official gazette, and thereupon any  personwho  might have been a petitioner may, within fourteen	daysof  such  publication, apply to be substituted in  place  ofsuch  respondent  to  oppose  the  petition,  and  shall  beentitled to continue the proceedings upon such terms as	 theTribunal may think fit.The  above provisions go to show that an  election  petitiononce filed does not mean a contest only between the  partiesthereto but creates a situation which the whole constituencyis entitled to avail itself of. Any person who might himselfhave been a petitioner is entitled to be substituted, on thefulfilment  of the requisite conditions and upon such  termsas  the Tribunal may think fit, in place of the party  with-drawing and even the death of the sole petitioner or of	 thesurvivor  of several petitioners does not put an end to	 theproceedings,  but  they can be continued by any	 person	 whomight  himself	have been a petitioner.	 Even  if  the	solerespondent  dies or gives notice that he does not intend  tooppose the petition or any of the respondents dies or  givessuch notice and there is no other respondent who is opposingthe petition, a similar situation arises and the  oppositionto  the	 petition can be continued by any person  who  mighthave  been a petitioner, of course on the fulfilment of	 theconditions prescribed in s. 116.  These provisions thereforeshow that the election petition once presented continues forthe benefit of the whole constituency and cannot come to  anend  merely by the withdrawal thereof by the  petitioner  oreven  by  his  death  or  by  the  death  or  withdrawal  ofopposition  by the respondent but is liable to be  continuedby any person who might have been a petitioner.If, therefore, an election petition duly presented cannot bethus  withdrawn by the petitioner, is there any warrant	 forthe  contention	 that  even though he may  not	be  able  towithdraw  his  petition in the manner aforesaid	 he  can  atleast  abandon a part of his claim on the analogy of 0.	 23,r. 1, of the Code of Civil623Procedure?   The  whole petition cannot	 be  withdrawn;	 butwould  it not be possible for the petitioner to withdraw  orabandon a part of his claim as above?  The provisions of  s.90  of	the Act are sought to be relied upon in	 support  ofthis contention.  Section 90(1) provides that subject to theprovisions  of	the Act and of any  rules  made	 thereunder,every  election petition shall be tried by the Tribunal,  asnearly	 as  may  be,  in  accordance  with  the   procedureapplicable under the Code of Civil Procedure to the trial ofsuits,	provided  however that the Tribunal shall  have	 thediscretion  to refuse for reasons to be recorded in  writingto examine any witness or witnesses if it is of the  opinionthat their evidence is not material for the decision of	 thepetition  or  that  the	 party	tendering  such	 witness  orwitnesses is doing so on frivolous grounds or with a view todelay the proceedings.	Under s. 90(2) the provisions of theIndian	Evidence Act, 1872, shall subject to the  provisionsof this Act, be deemed to apply in all respects to the trialof  an election petition.  Section 90(4) provides  that	 anycandidate  not already a respondent shall, upon	 applicationmade  by him to the Tribunal within fourteen days  from	 thedate  of  commencement	of  the trial  and  subject  to	 theprovisions  of	s.  119,  be entitled  to  be  joined  as  arespondent.   Section 90(5) provides that the Tribunal	may,upon  such  terms as to costs and otherwise as it  may	deemfit,  allow the particulars of any corrupt practice  allegedin the petition to be amended or amplified in such manner asmay  in	 its opinion be necessary for ensuring	a  fair	 andeffective  trial  of the petition, but shall not  allow	 anyamendment  of  the petition which will have  the  effect  ofintroducing particulars of a corrupt practice not previouslyalleged	 in the petition.  It is clear from the	 above	thatthe section only provides for the procedure for the trial ofelection  petitions by the Tribunals.  It provides  for	 theexamination  of	 witnesses,  the rules	of  evidence  to  befollowed, the joinder of candidates not already	 respondentsas  respondents	 and  the  amendment  or  amplification	  ofparticulars  of	 a corrupt practice already alleged  in	 thepetition.  The powers of a Tribunal are, however, separatelydealt with in s. 92624which  enacts that the Tribunal shall have the powers  whichare  vested  in a court under the Code of  Civil  Procedure,when trying a suit in respect of the following	matters:-(a)discovery  and inspection; (b) enforcing the  attendance  ofwitnesses, and requiring the deposit of their expenses;	 (e)compelling  the	 production  of	 documents;  (d)   examiningwitnesses on oath; (e) granting adjournments; (f)  receptionof evidence taken on affidavit; and (g) issuing	 commissionsfor the examination of witnesses, and may summon and examinesuo  motu  any	person whose evidence appears to  it  to  bematerial; and shall be deemed to be a civil court within themeaning	 of  ss.  480  and  482	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure, 1898.  It will be noticed that the procedure	 fortrial before the Tribunal and the powers of the Tribunal aretreated separately thus distinguishing between the procedureto  be	followed  by  the Tribunal  and	 the  powers  to  beexercised  by  it.  There are also other  provisions  to  befound  in  the Act which relate to place of trial  (s.	88);Power  of  Election  Commission	 to  withdraw  and  transferPetitions  (s.	89);  appearance before	 Tribunal  (s.	91);documentary  evidence  (s.  93);  answering  of	 criminatingquestions and certificate of indemnity (s. 95) and  expensesof  witnesses (s. 96).	The effect of all  these  provisionsreally is to constitute a self-contained Code governing	 thetrial  of  election petitions and it would  appear  that  inspite of s. 90(1) of the Act, the provisions of 0. 23, r. 1,of  the Code of Civil Procedure, would not be applicable  tothe  trial of election petitions by the Tribunals.   If	 thewithdrawal of a petition cannot be permitted and any  personwho might have been a petitioner is entitled to continue theproceedings,  on a parity of reasoning, the withdrawal of  apart  of  the  claim also could	 not  be  permitted  withoutallowing another person who might have been a petitioner  anopportunity  of	 proceeding with that part of the  claim  bysubstituting  himself in place and stead of  the  petitionerwho withdraws or abandons -the same.  If the constituency asa  whole is interested in the petition presented before	 theElection  Tribunal  no such withdrawal or abandonment  of  apart of the claim could ever be permitted without giving an625opportunity  to any person who might have been a  petitionerto  continue the proceedings and pursue the petition to	 itslogical conclusion.The  provisions	 of  0.	 23, r. 1,  of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure  also	 contain inherent evidence  which  militatesagainst	 this  contention.  Order 23, r.  1,  sub-rule	(2),provides  for  liberty being given by the Court to  a  partywithdrawing  or	 abandoning a part of his claim	 to  file  afresh  suit on the same cause of action, if so advised.	  Inthe very nature of things such liberty could not be reservedto  a  petitioner in an election petition.   The  provisionsabove  referred to in regard to withdrawal of  petitions  donot provide for the same and if they do not do so, can it beurged  that  the provisions of 0. 23, r.  1,  sub-rule	(2),though	they  may not apply to the cases  of  withdrawal  ofpetitions  may	nevertheless  apply  where  the	  petitionerwithdraws  or  abandons	 a  part of his	 claim	?  If  theseprovisions do not apply to the withdrawal or abandonment  ofa  part	 of the claim in the case of an	 election  petition,could	it  then  be  urged  that  nevertheless	 the   otherprovisions  of O. 23, r. 1, would apply and  the  petitionerwould be at liberty to	 withdraw  or abandon a part of	 hisclaim ?On  a due consideration of all these provisions, we  are  ofopinion that the provisions of O. 23, r. 1, do not apply  tothe  election  petitions  and  it would not  be	 open  to  apetitioner  to withdraw or abandon a part of his claim	oncean   election  petition	 was  presented	 to   the   ElectionCommission, more so when such a withdrawal or abandonment ofa  part of the claim would have the effect of depriving	 thereturned candidate or any other party to the petition of theright of recrimination which had accrued to him under s.  97of the Act.This  is also the position in England.	Halsbury's  Laws  ofEngland,  3rd Ed., Vol. 14, para. 451, p. 258, contains	 thefollowing passage under the caption Amendment of petition  ":-" The withdrawal of that portion of a petition which  claimsthe  seat cannot, however, be effected by way  of  amendmentbecause	 the  rights of the electors would  be	affected  bytheir  not  having the opportunity of  substituting  anotherpetitioner.626See also the passage at ibid p. 300, para. 541 :-"  It  seems  that  where  the	petition  prays	 the   seat,recriminatory evidence may be offered, notwithstanding, thatthe prayer for the seat is abandoned at the trial.The case of Aldridge v. Hurst (1) elucidates this  position.Grove J. in that case observed as follows:-"  Numerous provisions of the Act have reference not  merelyto  the	 individual interests or rights	 of  petitioners  orrespondents,  but to rights of electors, of  constituencies,and  of the public, in purity of election and in having	 themember	seated who is duly returned by a majority of  propervotes.	It appears to us also that the scope of the Act	 is,that petitions should not be mere pleadings, nor framed	 forthe  purpose  of intimidating or in any	 way  inducing,	 therespondent  to	abandon	 his seat; still  less,	 of  course,should they be collusive; but that they should be real, wellconsidered,  and  not lightly withdrawn either in  whole  orpart .............................................These  section show that not mearely may the  candidate	 whois  not returned claim the seat, or in other words claim  tohave  been   duly elected, but that any	 other	voter  mightclaim the seat for a candidate who has not been returned."This  right    petitioning shows that the Act  contemplates,in regard to petitions, not merely the rights of  candidatesnot  returned, but the rights of the constituency to  insurethat  the person really elected should be their member;	 andthis without the cost and disturbance of a new election,  asthe judge's decision in favour of such claim is final."   "   It appears to us that it would be an  infringement  ofthis  right,  if, a petition having been  presented  by	 oneperson	(in  this case a candidate) claiming the  Beat,	 theclaim  to the seat could be withdrawn by the mere motion  ofthe person presenting it, after the twenty-one days, when noother  petition could be presented, and thus the  voters  beprevented from claiming(1)  (1876) L.R. C.P. 410, 413, 414. 415, 417-627the seat for one who may be the duly elected representative;or,  on	 the  other  hand, from	 shewing  by  means  of	 therecriminative charges which put in issue the claim, that theclaimant  is  not  a person entitled to	 the  seat  by	thatelection  or that he is disqualified for  future  elections;such  withdrawal  not  being accompanied  by  the  power  tosubstitute  another person as petitioner, by means of  whichthe inquiry might be gone into at the trial.  ""  It appears to us that the withdrawal of this	 portion  ofthe prayer- of the petition is in pari materia with, even ifit is not within, the provisions of the Act relative to	 thewithdrawal of a whole petition."" It is also to be observed that, although petitions may  bepresented  at the last moment, it is commonly known  in	 thecounty	or  borough  that such petitions are  likely  to  bepresented  ; and if any suspicion exists that they are	shampetitions,  means are taken by those who are in	 earnest  tolodge  petitions;  and the entire  withdrawal  of  collusivepetitions is guarded against by the provisions of the Act towhich we have alluded.""  In  one  point  of view it is  an  argument	against	 ourallowing  this prayer to be withdrawn, that, if there be  nopower  under the withdrawal clauses to substitute  a  personfor the petitioner as to this prayer, the constituency	willbe  without means of proving either that the  petitioner  isthe duly-elected member, or to answer his allegation that heis elected, or to shew that he is unfit to serve in a futureparliament, he himself having raised this issue by  claimingthe seat."It  is,	 therefore,  clear that there is  no  power  in	 theElection  Commission  to allow a petitioner to	withdraw  orabandon	 a part of his claim either by having resort to	 theprovisions of 0. 23, r. 1, of the Code of Civil Procedure orotherwise.  If that is so, the right of recrimination  whichhas  once  accrued to the returned candidate  or  any  otherparty to the petition under s. 97 of the Act cannot be takenaway,  and the returned candidate or any other party to	 thepetition would in 80628such  circumstances  be entitled to give evidence  to  provethat  the election of the petitioner or any other  candidatesponsored  by  him would have been void if he had  been	 thereturned candidate and a petition had been presented callingin question his election.  The counter petition which has ineffect	been  thus filed by the returned  candidate  or	 anyother  party to the petition must be allowed to proceed	 andthe  right of recrimination should continue to be  exercisednotwithstanding	 the attempted abandonment of a part of	 hisclaim  by the petitioner with the inevitable result that  ifany  corrupt  practice	within the meaning of  s.  123	wereproved	against	 the  petitioner  or  any  other   candidatesponsored   by	 him   it  would   entail   upon   him	 thedisqualification  for  standing as a candidate or  even	 forvoting for a period of 6 years under ss. 140 and 141(b).  Inthe  present case, such proof on the part of  the  appellantwould  have  not  only entailed upon the  lst  respondent  adisqualification  for  voting  but even for  standing  as  acandidate  for	a period of six years, with  the  inevitableconsequence  that  his election to  the	 Mysore	 LegislativeAssembly  from	the Kalaghatgi constituency on	October	 16,1957, would have been void and lie would have been unseated.We  have, therefore, come to the conclusion that  the  orderpassed	by the Election Tribunal allowing abandonment  of  apart of the claim by the first respondent and precluding theappellant from giving evidence to prove that the election ofthe first respondent would have been void if he had been thereturned  candidate was clearly erroneous and liable  to  beset aside.We accordingly allow the appeal and reverse the order passedby  the	 Election Tribunal dated September  26,	 1957.	 TheElection  Tribunal  shall  proceed with	 the  trial  of	 theelection  petition  on the claims as  they  were  originallyincluded  in the petition and will also allow the  appellantto  exercise his right of recrimination under s. 97  of	 theAct.  The first respondent will pay the appellant's costs ofthis  appeal and the costs thrown away before  the  ElectionTribunal.Appeal allowed.629