PETITIONER:JUTE & GUNNY BROKERS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:M/S.  NEW CENTRAL JUTE MILLS CO., LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/01/1959BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  569		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2)  79ACT:       Contract--Validity--Ordinance making Provision of regulation       of trade--Act replacing Ordinance--Deeming  provisions-Legal       fiction--Effect--Raw   Jute   (Central	Jute   Board	and       Miscellaneous  Provisions) Ordinance, 1950 (W.  Ben.  17	 of       1950),  ss.  5,	6 and 7 Raw jute (Central  Jute	 Board	and       Miscellaneous  Provisions) Act, 1951 (W.	 Ben. 6	 of  1951),       ss.5, 6, 7, 16.HEADNOTE:In  respect of a dispute between the appellant	company	 andthe respondent company which was referred to the arbitrationof   the  Bengal  Chamber  of  Commerce	 in  terms  of	 thearbitration clause contained in the contract entered into onApril  6,  1951,  an award was made on	February  29,  1952,allowing the claim of the appellant.  The respondent made anapplication in the High Court for having the award set asideon the ground, inter alia, that the contract was void  underthe  provisions	 of  the Raw jute (Central  jute  Board	 andMiscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1951, inasmuch as it had	 notbeen entered into in the manner specified in ss. 5, 6 and  7of  the Act as required therein.  On December 14, 1950,	 theGovernment  of	West  Bengal had  promulgated  an  Ordinancecalled	the Raw jute (Central jute Board  and  MiscellaneousProvisions)  Ordinance, 1950, for the better  regulation  ofthe  trade,  and  on December 29,1950,	a  notification	 wasissued specifying December 30, 1950, as " the appointed	 dayfor  the purposes of ss. 5, 6 and 7 Of the said	 Ordinance."Subsequently the Ordinance was replaced by the Act which  bys.    16,    provided:..............	any	notificationissued.........	 under the Raw Jute (Central jute Board	 andMiscellaneons  Provisions)  Ordinance, 1950, shall,  on	 thesaid  Ordinance ceasing to operate, be deemed to  have	beenissued	under this Act as if this Act had commenced  on	 the14th  day  of  December	 1950." It  was	 contended  for	 theappellant  that	 the notification dated December  29,  1950,could  not be read as having brought ss. 5, 6 and 7  Of	 theAct  into  force,  because, on a plain reading	of  it,	 thenotification did not purport to bring any of the sections ofthe Act into force, but expressly brought ss. 5, 6 and 7  ofthe  Ordinance into force and that the said sections of	 theAct  not  having been brought into force,  the	contract  inquestion was valid and, consequently, the award was  bindingand enforceable.Held,  that  in order to give full effect to the  two  legalfictions  created in s. 16 of the Act that the Act shall  bedeemed to have commenced on December 14, 195o, and that	 thenotification  issued under the Ordinance shall be deemed  tohave80been issued under the Act, the principle of mutatis mutandishas  to be adopted and the word " Act " substituted for	 theword  " Ordinance " used in the notification dated  December29, 1950.  Consequently, the provisions of ss. 5, 6 and 7 Ofthe Act were applicable to the contract in question.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 92 of 1954.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated January 28,  1953,of the' Calcutta High Court in Award Case No. 105 of 1952.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen,P.   D.	  Himatsinghka	and  B.	 P.  Maheshwari,   for	 theappellant.N.   C.	 Chatterjee,  M. 0. Poddar and Ganpat Rai,  for	 therespondent.1959.  January 20.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyDAS,  C.  J.-This is an appeal filed upon a  certificate  offitness granted by the High Court of Calcutta impugning	 thejudgment  pronounced by the said High Court on	January	 23,1953,  declaring  null and void an award (No. 209  of  1952)made  by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce in case No.  855  of1951, whereby they ordered the respondent company to pay  tothe appellant company a sum of Rs. 1,95,000 besides interestand costs.The  facts giving rise to the present appeal are simple	 andmay briefly be summarised as follows: On April 6, 1951,	 theappellant   company  entered  into  a  contract	  with	 therespondent company for the supply of 5,000 maunds of  Nikhliand/or Ashuganj Jute on certain prices according to quality,"  shipment during July and/or August, 1951,  guaranteed  ".That  contract,	 which was entered into by bought  and	soldnotes  exchanged between the parties through  brokers,	con-tained	a  very	 wide  arbitration  clause.   When  shippingdocuments  were presented to the respondent company  by	 thebankers of the appellant company, they were not honoured  onthe plea that the same were not in order and the  respondentcompany failed to take delivery of the goods.  The last dateon which the81documents  were	 so presented was September  17,  1951.	  OnSeptember  26,	1951, the appellant company,  through  theirsolicitors, wrote to the respondent company intimating	thatthey  had exercised their option of cancelling the  contractand  demanding	the payment of the sum of  Rs.	1,95,000  asdamages on the basis  of the difference between the contractprice and the market price of the goods as on September	 17,1951.	The respondent company having by their letter  datedOctober 25, 1951, denied their liability to pay any  amount,the  appellant	company on November 2,	1951,  referred	 thedispute to the arbitration of the Bengal Chamber of Commercein  terms  of  the  arbitration	 clause	 contained  in	thatcontract.    The   respondent  company	submitted   to	 thejurisdiction of the Tribunal of arbitration by appearing andadducing  evidence  before it.	On February  29,  1952,	 thearbitrators made their award by which they allowed the claimof  the appellant company in full with interest	 and  costs.The  award having been filed in the Calcutta High  Court  onApril 23, 1952, the respondent company on June 9,1952, filedan  application in that Court praying, inter alia, that	 theaward be declared null and void and be set aside.  The	mainground	urged in that application was that the award  was  anullity	 in  that the contract	containing  the	 arbitrationclause	was  void  under  the provisions  of  the  Raw	Jute(Central Jute Board and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1951,(W.  Ben.  VI of 1951) which was then in force.	 In order toappreciate  the	 points	 raised before the  High  Court	 andbefore us it is necessary at this stage to refer to some  ofthe statutory provisions bearing on the question.To regulate the prices of jute and to empower the Governmentto  fix	 its  maximum prices, the  West	 Bengal	 Legislaturepassed	an  Act	 called the West  Bengal  Jute	(Control  ofPrices)	 Act, 1950, (W.	 Ben.  VI of 1950) which  came	intoforce on March 15,1950.	 On December 14,1950, the Governmentof West Bengal promulgated an Ordinance called the Raw	Jute(Central Jute Board and Miscellaneous Provisions)82Ordinance, 1950 (XVII of 1950) for the better regulation  ofthe  jute  trade.  The preamble to  that  Ordinance  recitedthat,  as  the owners of jute mills were not being  able  tosecure adequate supplies of jute on the maximum prices fixedunder the West Bengal Jute (Control of Prices) Act, 1950, ithad become expedient to set up a Central Jute Board in	WestBengal	for ensuring an equitable supply of raw jute to	 theowners of the jute mills.  That Ordinance consisted of	only15  sections.  Section.4 of that Ordinance provided for	 theconstitution  of  the  Central Jute Board.   Section  5	 wasexpressed in the following terms :-"  5. (1) No person shall sell or agree to sell raw jute  tothe  owner of a jute-mill and no owner of a jute mill  shallbuy or agree to buy raw jute save and except in pursuance ofa  contract for the sale or the supply of raw  jute  enteredinto in the manner provided in section 6.(2)  Any contract entered into for the sale or the supply ofraw  jute with the owner of a jute-mill save and  except  inthe manner provided in section 6 shall bevoid and of no effect.(3)  Any  person contravening the provisions of	 sub-section(If  shall be guilty of an offence under this Ordinance	 andshall  be punishable with imprisonment which may  extend  tosix months or with fine or with both."Section	 6 laid down the manner in which all  contracts	 forthe sale or supply of raw jute with the owners of jute millswere to be entered into.  Section 7 ran asfollows:-" 7. (1) No person shall deliver or cause to be delivered tothe  owner of a jute-mill and no owner of a jute-mill  shallaccept or cause to be accepted any raw jute save and  exceptin pursuance of a contract for the sale or the supply of rawjute entered into in the manner provided in section 6.(2)  Any  person contravening the provisions of	 sub-section(If  shall be guilty of an offence under this Ordinance	 andshall  be punishable with imprisonment which may  extend  tosix months or with fine or with both.83(3)  The  provisions  of  section 5,  section  6,  and	thissection shall have effect on and from the appointed day."The  expression	 "  appointed day " occurring in  s.  7	 (3)quoted above was thus defined in s. 2 (1) of that  Ordinance:-"  2  (1) I appointed day' means the date specified  by	 theState Government by notification in the Official Gazette  asthe appointed day for the purpose of this Ordinance; "By  a notification dated December 29, 1950, published in  anextraordinary  issue  of the Calcutta Gazette  of  the	samedate,  December 30, 1950, was specified as "  the  appointedday  for  the  purposes	 of  ss. 5, 6  and  7  of  the	saidOrdinance."The  said  Ordinance  was subsequently replaced	 by  an	 Actcalled	the Raw Jute (Central Jute Board  and  MiscellaneousProvisions)  Act  (W.  Ben.  Act VI  of	 1951),	 hereinafterreferred  to as " the Act ", which came into force on  March21.,  1951.   The  first fifteen sections of  the  Act	werealmost verbatim reproductions of the fifteen sections of theOrdinance  and	only  one  new	section	 was  added  as	 thesixteenth section reading as follows:-"  16.	The Central Jute Board constituted, any	 rule  made,any notification or licence issued, any direction given, anycontract  entered  into, any minimum price  fixed,  anythingdone  or  any  action whatsoever taken under  the  Raw	Jute(Central Jute Board and Miscellaneous Provisions) Ordinance,1950,  shall, on the said Ordinance ceasing to	operate,  bedeemed	to  have  been	constituted,  made,  issued,  given,entered into, fixed, done or taken under this Act as if thisAct had commenced on the 14th day of December, 1950.  "	 TheAct was in force at all times material to these	 proceedingsthough the same was subsequently repealed on August 5, 1952.It may be mentioned here that both when the Ordinance was inforce and after the Act had come into operation, the CentralJute  Board  issued  a,	 series of  circulars  by  which  itauthorised the owners of jute mills to purchase raw jute  upto the extent of quotas84respectively  allotted	to  them  through  "  normal   tradechannels  " subject to their furnishing particulars  of	 thecontracts  and of deliveries under them to the	Board.	 Thecontract in question was entered into through " normal tradechannels  " and not in the manner specified in the said	 Actor the rules framed thereunder.	 Indeed, it is conceded thatno application had been made by the appellant company to theBoard  under  s. 6(1) of the Act, that the  Board  did	not,under s. 6(2) of the Act select any jute mills as buyers  ofthese  goods, that the respondent company had not  signifiedin writing to the Board its intention to buy the raw jute inquestion, that the Board did not specify a date within whichthe  contract was to be entered into and that, finally,	 thedelivery  period fixed in the contract was in  contraventionof  the provisions of the Act and the rules and,  therefore,the contract was void under s. 5(2) of the Act, if ss. 5,  6and 7 were in force at the date of the contract.The  respondent company's aforesaid application for  settingaside  the  award having come on for  hearing,	the  learnedSingle	Judge  sitting, on the Original	 Side  reported	 thematter, under r. 2 of ch.  V of the Original Side Rules,  tothe Chief Justice for forming a larger Bench for hearing  ofthe  said  application.	  A Special  Bench  was	 accordinglyconstituted by the Chief Justice and the application came upfor  hearing  before that Bench.  Three	 points	 were  urgedbefore	the High Court, namely, (1) that the Act  was  ultravires the Bengal Legislature; (2) that even if the Act	wereintra  vires  ss. 5, 6 and 7 of the Act were  never  broughtinto  force and (3) that there was a subsequent	 independentagreement  to refer the disputes to the arbitration  of	 theBengal	Chamber of Commerce.  The High Court  negatived	 allthe  contentions raised by the appellant company and by	 itsjudgment dated January 23, 1953, allowed the application anddeclared  the  award to be null and void, but  directed	 theparties	 to bear their own costs.  This appeal,	 as  alreadystated,	 has  been filed against the judgment  of  the	HighCourt  upon  a certificate of fitness granted  by  the	HighCourt.85The  learned Attorney-General appearing in support  of	thisappeal	has  urged  before us only the	second	point  urgedbefore	the  High Court, namely, that even if the  Act	wereintra vires ss. 5, 6 and 7 had never been brought into forceand,  therefore,  the contract in  question  containing	 thearbitration clause was valid and consequently the award	 wasbinding	 and  enforceable.   He does not  dispute  that,  byvirtue	of  s.	16 of the Act, the  notification  issued  onDecember 19, 1950, under s. 2(1) of the Ordinance has to  bedeemed	to have been issued under the Act, but	he  contendsthat  even  so	the notification dated	December  29,  1950,cannot	be read as having brought ss. 5, 6 and 7 of the	 Actinto  force, for it, in terms, specified December 30,  1950,as the appointed day " for the purposes of ss. 5, 6 and 7 ofthe  Ordinance ". He urges that this Court has to  take	 thenotification  made  under the Ordinance as it finds  it	 andthen,  under s. 16 of the Act, to deem it to have been	madeunder  the Act.	 According to him the fiction created by  s.16  ends as soon as the notification is deemed to have	beenmade  under the Act and goes no further.  He  concludes,  onthe authority of the decisions in Hamilton and Co. v. Mackieand  Sons  (1)	and T. W. Thomas & Co.	Limited	 v.  PortseaSteamship  Company Limited (2), that, on a plain reading  ofit,  the notification, when it is deemed to have  been	madeunder  the Act, makes no sense, for it does not	 purport  tobring  any  of	the  sections of  the  Act  into  force	 butexpressly brings ss. 5, 6 and 7 of the Ordinance into force.He  submits that it is not for the court to alter the  termsof the notification so as to make it possible to read it  asa notification made under the Act.  We are unable to  acceptthis  line  of	argument.  The decisions relied	 on  by	 thelearned Attorney General can have no application to the pre-sent case.  In those cases there was no statutory  provisionfor deeming the provision of the charter party referring alldisputes  under	 the  charter party  to	 arbitration  as  anintegral  part of the provisions of the bill of lading	and,therefore,  the only thing to be done in those cases was  tolift bodily the relevant provision(1) [1889] 5 T. L. R. 677.(2) L.R. [1912] A.C. 1.86of the charter party and to insert it in and to read it as apart  of  the bill of lading.  It was held that so  read  itbecame	insensible, for an arbitration clause referring	 alldisputes arising out of the charter party was wholly out  ofplace  and meaningless as a term of  the bill of lading.   Acursory perusal of s. 16 will, however, show that there	 aretwo  fictions created by that section: One is that  the	 Actshall be deemed to have commenced on December 14, 1950,	 andthe  other  is	that  the  notification	 issued	 under	 theOrdinance shall be deemed to have been issued under the Act.If the Act fictionally commenced on December 14, 1950,	thenthe Ordinance would have to be treated as not promulgated atall,  for the two could not have coexisted and when the	 Actprovided  that the notification, which, for  identification,is  described  as having been issued  under  the  Ordinance,should	be  deemed  to have been made under  the  Act  then,unless	we read the word " Ordinance " 7 as " Act ",  we  donot  give  full effect to the twin fictions created  by	 theAct.  In other words the creation of the statutory  fictionscompels us to adopt the principle of mutatis mutandis and tosubstitute the word " Act " for the word " Ordinance "	usedin  the	 notification,	so as to give  full  effect  to	 thefictions  created  by  the statute.  We	 see  no  reason  insupport of the contentions of the Attorney General that	 thefiction	 raised by s. 16 stops short at mere issuing of	 thenotification.	The  ambit of the fiction appears to  us  tocover  not  only  the issuance of the  notification  but  toextend to our reading it as having been one issued under theAct.  We cannot read it as having been issued under the	 Actunless	we  read  the  word  "	Ordinance  "  used  in	 thenotification as " Act ".No  other  point has been urged before us  and	for  reasonsstated above this appeal must be dismissed.  In view of	 thecircumstances referred to in the judgment of the High  Courtand  appearing in the record we make no order for  costs  ofthis appeal.			       Appeal dismissed.87