PETITIONER:SARDAR SYEDNA TAHERSAIFUDDIN SAHEB	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:27/11/1957BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  253		  1958 SCR 1010ACT:  Practice-Appeal-Maintainability---Suit  based on  Personalright-Death of plaintiff pending appeal-Bombay Prevention ofExcommunication Act, 1949 (Bombay XLII of 1949).    Supreme  Court-Appeal  against  interlocutory   finding-Certificate by High Court-Competence-Constitution of  India,Arts, 132, 133.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	as the religious head of his  community	 ex-communicated T who thereupon filed a suit for a	 declarationthat  the  order of excommunication was invalid.   When	 thesuit  was pending the Bombay Prevention	 of  ExcommunicationAct,  1949, was passed and one of issues raised in the	suitwas  whether  the order of excommunication  was	 invalid  byreason	of the provisions of the Act.  This issue was  triedas a preliminary issue and(1) (1948) L.R. 75 I. A. 30.1281008as it raised the question of the vires of the Act, the Stateof Bombay was impleaded as the second defendant in the suit.The  Bombay  High  Court  decided  the	issue  against	 theappellant,  but	 granted  a certificate	 to  appeal  to	 theSupreme Court under Arts. 132 and 133 Of the Constitution ofIndia.	Pending the appeal the plaintiff died and the actionwhich  was  personal  to him consequently  abated.   It	 wascontended for the appellant that as the State of Bombay	 hadbeen  impleaded as a party and that as the decision  on	 thequestion  of  the  vires of the Act had been  given  in	 itspresence, the appellant was entitled to continue the  appealagainst	 the  State without reference to the  plaintiff	 andseek the decision of the Court on the validity of the Act :Held, that the appeal must be dismissed as not maintainable,because	 (1) the appeal was only a continuation of the	suitwhich,	in the events, had abated, and (2)  the	 certificateunder Arts. 132 and I33 of the Constitution was incompetent,as  it could not be granted in respect of  an  interlocutoryfinding.The United Provinces v. Mst.  Atiqa Begum and Others, [1940]F.C.R. 110, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 99 of 1954.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated the  20th  August,1952,  of  the Bombay High Court in Appeal No.	43  of	1952arising out of Original Suit No. 1262 of 1949.N.   C. Chatterjee, J. B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, forthe appellant.Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1957.  November 27.  The following Judgment of the Court wasdelivered byVENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-On February 28,1934, the Appellant	 whois the religious head of the Dawoodi Bohra Community, passedan  order excommunicating one Tyebbhai Moosaji	Koicha.	  OnJuly 17, 1920, the appellant had excommunicated two persons,Tahirbhai  and Hasan Ali, and the validity of the order	 wasquestioned  in	a  suit	 instituted  in	 the  Court  of	 theSubordinate Judge, Barhampur.  The litigation went up to thePrivy  Council,	 which	held  that  the	 appellant  as	 thereligious  head had the power to excommunicate a  member  ofthe  community, but that that power could only be  exercisedafter observing the requisite1009formalities, and as in that case that had not been done, theorder  of  excommunication was invalid.	 Vide Hasan  Ali  v.Mansoorali (1).Apprehending  that  the order dated February 28,  1934,	 wasopen  to  challenge  under  the decision  in  Hasan  Ali  v.Mansoorali  (supra) on the ground that it had  not  compliedwith the requisite formalities, the appellant started  freshproceedings, and on April 28, 1948, passed another order  ofexcommunication.   Thereupon,  Tyebbhai	 Moosaji  filed	 thepresent	 suit  for  a declaration that both  the  orders  ofexcommunication dated February 28, 1934, and April 28, 1948,were invalid and for other consequential reliefs.While  this  action  was pending,  the	Legislature  of	 theProvince   of  Bombay  passed  the  Bombay   Prevention	  ofExcommunication	 Act  (Bombay  XLII  of	 1949)	 prohibitingexcommunication,  and  that came into force on	November  1,1949.	The  plaintiff	contended that the  effect  of	thislegislation  was  to render the	 orders	 of  excommunicationillegal.   The	answer of the appellant to  this  contentionwas,  firstly, that the Act had no retrospective  operation,and that, in consequence, the orders passed on February	 28,1934,	and  April  28,	 1948,	were  valid,  and   remainedunaffected  by	it; and secondly, that the  Act	 was  itselfunconstitutional, because the subject matter of the impugnedlegislation was not covered by any of the entries in List  2or  3  of Seventh Schedule to the Government of	 India	Act,1935,  and the Legislature of the Province of Bombay had  nocompetence to enact the law.  After the coming into force ofthe  Constitution, the contention was also raised  that	 theright of the defendant to excommunicate members of the	com-munity was protected by Arts. 25 and 26 of the Constitution,and that the impugned Act was void as infringing the same.The  issues in the action were then settled, and  issue	 No.19,   which   was  raised  with	 reference  to	 the   abovecontentions,  was  as  follows:" Whether the orders of excommunication made in 1934  and/or1948 are invalid by reason of the(1)  A.I.R. 1948 P.C. 66.1010provisions  of the Bombay Prevention of Excommunication	 Actof 1949?"This was tried as a preliminary issue, and as it raised	 thequestion of the vires of a statute, the State of Bombay	 wasimpleaded  as the second defendant in the suit.	 Shah  J.whotried	this   issue,  held  that  the	impugned   Act	 wasretrospective  in  its	operation, that it  was	 within	 thecompetence  of the Provincial Legislature, and further	thatit did not offend Arts. 25 and 26 of the Constitution.Against	 this  finding, the present appellant  preferred  anappeal	to  a Bench of the Bombay High Court, and  that	 washeard  by Chagla C. J. and Bhagwati J. who held	 that  underthe  Act,  excommunication  meant  the	condition  of  beingexpelled,  that it was a continuous state during  which	 theperson	excommunicated	was  deprived  of  his	rights	 andprivileges,  and that, therefore, the Act would	 operate  toprotect	 those rights from the date it came into  operation.They further held that the Act was within the competence  ofthe Legislature, and they also repelled the contention	thatit infringed the rights guaranteed under Arts. 25 and 26  ofthe  Constitution.   In the result, they  concurred  in	 thedecision  of Shah J. and dismissed the appeal but granted  acertificate to appeal to this Court under Arts. 132 and	 133of the Constitution.  Hence this appeal.Pending	 the appeal, the plaintiff died on March  11,  1953,and his daughter applied on May 22, 1953, to be	 substitutedin  his	 place.	  But  eventually  she	did  not  press	 theapplication, and that was dismissed on October 5, 1953.	  Inthis  Court by an order dated November 21, 1955,  the  causetitle  was  amended by deleting the name of  the  plaintiff.Thus, the only parties who are now before the Court are	 thedefendant and the State of Bombay.The  question is whether in the events which have  happened,the  appeal can proceed.  We are of opinion that it  cannot.It  should be remembered in this connection that  no  decreehad been passed in the suit.  Only a finding has been  givenon a preliminary point, and it is that finding that has beenthe subject of			    1011appeal	to the High Court of Bombay and thereafter  to	thisCourt.	 There are other issues still to be tried,  and	 theaction is thus undetermined.  Now, the claim with which	 theplaintiff   came   to  Court  was  that	  he   was   wronglyexcommunicated, and that was an action personal to him.	  Onthe principle, actio personalis moritur cum persona when  hedied the suit should abate.  As a matter of fact, his  legalrepresentative	applied	 to be brought on  record,  but	 theapplication  was not pressed.  The result is that  the	suithas  abated.  This would ordinarily entail the dismissal  ofthis appeal.Mr.  N. C. Chatterjee for the appellant argues that  as	 theState  of Bombay had been impleaded as a party, and that  asthe  decision  on the question of the vires of the  Act	 hadbeen  given  in its presence, the appellant is	entitled  tocontinue  the appeal against the State without reference  tothe  plaintiff	and seek the decision of this Court  on	 thevalidity  of  the Act ; and relies on the  decision  of	 theFederal	 Court in The United Provinces v. Mst.	Atiqa  Begumand  others (1).  There, a suit was filed by a landlord	 forrecovery  of rent.  While it was pending in appeal,  an	 Actwas  passed  by	 the Legislature  of  the  United  Provincesvalidating  certain Government notifications  requiring	 thelandlords  to  give to the tenants remission of	 rent.	 Thelandlord contended that the Act was ultra vires, and a	FullBench  of  the Allahabad High Court, for whose	opinion	 thequestion   was	referred,  agreed  with	  this	 contention.Thereafter,  the  Government  of the  United  Provinces	 gotitself	impleaded as a party to the appeal of the  landlord,and a decision having been given therein in accordance	withthe opinion of the Full Bench, it preferred an appeal to theFederal	 Court on a certificate granted under s. 205 of	 theGovernment  of	India  Act, 1935,  and	contended  that	 theimpugned Act was valid.	 The judgment-debtor himself did notfile  any appeal.  The question was whether  the  Governmentwas  entitled  to  file the appeal when the  party  had	 notchosen	to contest the decree.	It was held by	the  FederalCourt that the scope of(1)  [1940] F.C.R. 110.1012s.   205 of the Government of India Act was wider than	thatof  s.	96  of	the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  and  that	 theGovernment  was	 entitled to file the appeal for  getting  adecision on the validity of the Act, notwithstanding that ithad no interest in the claim in the suit.  This ruling	has,in  our opinion, no application to the facts of the  presentcase.  Here, the action itself has abated, and there can  beno  question of an appeal in relation thereto, as an  appealis  only  a continuation of the suit, and there	 can  be  noquestion of continuing what does not exist.But apart from this, there is another formidable obstacle inthe way of the appellant.  Under Art. 132, an appeal lies tothis Court only against judgments, decrees or final  orders.That was also the position under s. 205 of the Government ofIndia  Act.   Now,  the order appealed	against	 is  only  adecision  on one of the issues, and it does not	 dispose  ofthe suit.  In The United Provinces v. Mst.  Atiqa Begum	 andothers (supra), there was a decree, and the requirements  ofs.  205 were satisfied.	 Here, there is only a finding on  apreliminary  issue, and there is no decree or  final  order.The Explanation to Art. 132 provides that:"For  the  purposes of this Article, the  expression  'finalorder' includes an order deciding an issue which, if decidedin  favour  of the appellant, would be	sufficient  for	 thefinal disposal of the case."Applying this test, even if we accept the contention of	 theappellant  that	 the  impugned Act is bad,  that  would	 notfinally	 dispose  of the suit, as there	 are  other  issues,which have to be tried.	 We are clearly of opinion that	 theappeal is not competent under Art. 132, and the fact that  acertificate has been given does not alter the position.	  Itis  said  that the certificate is also under Art.  133,	 butunder  that  article  also,  an	 appeal	 lies  Only  againstjudgments, decrees or final orders, and no certificate couldbe granted in respect of an interlocutory finding.The  result  is that this appeal must be dismissed,  as	 notmaintainable.  We should add by way of abundant caution thatas we express no opinion on the1013correctness  of the decision under appeal, this	 order	willnot  preclude the appellant from claiming such rights as  hemay have, in appropriate proceedings which he may take.	  Inthe circumstances, there will be no order as to costs.		     Appeal dismissed.