PETITIONER:CT. A. CT.  NACHIAPPA CHETTIAR AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:CT. A. CT.  SUBRAMANIAM CHETTIARDATE OF JUDGMENT:13/11/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  307		  1960 SCR  (2) 209 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC 908	 (20) R	    1967 SC1030	 (4) R	    1967 SC1032	 (5) R	    1972 SC1507	 (22) RF	    1981 SC2075	 (14) D	    1988 SC1520	 (18) RF	    1990 SC1340	 (13,16) RF	    1992 SC 732	 (10,20,22,33)ACT:Arbitration-Partition suit-Preliminary decree-Appeal to HighCourt-Reference	 to  arbitration by  Trial  Court-Competency-Foreign  immoveable  Properties  excluded  by	 preliminarydecree-Whether reference and award include such	 properties-Construction-Indian  Arbitration Act, 1940 (X of  1940),  s.21.HEADNOTE:In a suit for partition of the joint family properties filedby  the	 respondent  against  his  brother  and	 his   sons,appellants  1 to 5 respectively, the latter while  admittingthe relationship of the respondent and his half share to thefamily	properties, pleaded, inter alia, that the court	 hadno jurisdiction to divide the immoveable properties situatedin  Burma and in the Indian State of Pudukottai.  The  trialcourt  passed  a  preliminary  decree  excluding  from	 itsoperation the aforesaid immoveable properties.	Against	 thepreliminary  decree appeals were preferred before  the	HighCourt by the several parties on various grounds, but in	 hisappeal the respondent did not -challenge the finding of	 thetrial court that it had no jurisdiction to deal with foreignimmoveable properties.	During the pendency of the  appeals,on  the	 joint application made by the	parties,  the  trialcourt  made an order referring for determination by the	 twoarbitrators  named by them " all the matters in	 dispute  inthe suit and all matters and proceedings connected therewith".  In	due course the arbitrators gave an award  which	 wasthen  filed  in	 the trial  court.   As	 regards  immoveableproperties  in Pudukottai the award recited that  since	 theparties had separated and the properties in suit before	 thearbitrators  had been actually divided by metes and  bounds,the  two branches shall enjoy the Pudukottai  properties  inequal  halves;	while with reference to	 the  properties  inBurma  the  arbitrators	 asked	the  parties  to  hold	 thedocuments of title half and half for safe custody and  addedthat  when the parties decided to divide the properties	 allthe documents would have to be27210brought together and a partition made according to law.	 Theappellant  challenged  the  validity of	 the  award  on	 thegrounds	 inter	alia (1) that the reference  and  the  awarddealt with immoveable properties in Burma and Pudukottai andso they were   invalid, and (2) that the trial court was notcompetent to make the order of reference under s. 21 of	 theIndian Arbitration Act, 1940.  Held:	  (1) that the reference and the award could not  bechallenged  on the ground that they purported to  deal	withforeign	 immoveable properties because (a) at the time	whenthe  matters in dispute were referred to arbitration it	 wason  the	 basis of the finding of the trial  court  that	 thecourt  had no jurisdiction to deal with	 foreign  immoveableproperties,  and  (b)  the award did  not  divide  the	saidproperties  or	declare	 their shares in  them,	 but  merelyrecited the fact that the parties having become divided	 andaccepted  a  half share in each of the branches	 they  wouldhold and enjoy the properties half and half.  There	 is a distinction between a mere recital of  a	factand something which in itself creates a title.   Bageshwari  Charan Singh v. Jagarnath Kuari, (1932)	L.R.53 I.A. 130, relied on.  (2)	  that the words " suit " and " court " in s. 20  ofthe  Indian Arbitration Act, 1940, include  appellate  courtproceedings and appellate court, respectively.  Abani	 Bhusan	 Chakravarthy  and  Others  v.	Hem  ChandraChakravarthy and Others, A.I.R. 1947 Cal. 93, disapproved.  Thakur  Prasad v. Baleshwar Ahir and Others,	A.I.R.	1954Pat.  106, Moradhwaj v. Bhudar Das A.I.R. 1955 All. 353	 andSubramannaya Bhatta v. Devadas Nayak and Others, A.I.R. 1955Mad. 693, approved.  (3)that the word " judgment " in s. 21 of the Act means ajudgmentwhich finally decides all matters in controversy  inthe  suit and does not refer to the various interlocutory  -orders	and judgments that may be passed during the  hearingof the suit. (4) that  a  judgment delivered by a court in	a  partitionsuit  which  is followed by a preliminary decree  is  not  afinal  judgment	 in  the  suit and  that  a  court  after  apreliminary decree has been passed has jurisdiction to	makean order of reference under s. 21 of the Act.    Jadu  Nath	Roy  and Others v.  Paramesway	Mullick	 andOthers, (1939) L.R. 67 I.A. 11, relied on.  (5)	  that where a preliminary decree has been drawn  upand  an	 appeal has been filed against it,  both  the  trialcourt  and the appellate court are possessed of the  mattersin  dispute in part and it would be open to either court  tomake an order of reference in respect of all the matters  indispute between the211parties; that as in the present case proceedings  subsequentto  the	 preliminary decree were pending  before  the  trialcourt,	the latter was competent to act under S. 21  of	 theAct.JUDGMENT:  CIVIL	 APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos.  112  to116 of 55.  Appeals  from	 the  judgment	and  order  dated   December14,1951, of the Madras High Court, in AAO 210 of 1946, C. M.Ps.  Nos. 3273 and 3274 of 1946, AAO 661 of 1946, and AAO 49of 1947 respectively, arising out of the judgment and  orderdated	January	  28,  1946,  of  the	Subordinate   Judge,Devakottah, in 1. A. No. 18 of 1945 in O. S. No. 91 of 1941.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, K. Parasaran and M.S.K. Aiyangar,for the appellants.K.   Rajah  Iyer, R. Rangachari and R. Ganapathy  Iyer,	 forthe respondent.1959.  November 13.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR J.-These five appeals arise from a  partitionsuit  (O.S.  No.  91  of  1941)	 filed	by  the	  respondentSubramanian   Chettiar	against	 his  brother  Ct.  A.	 Ct.Nachiyappa  Chettiar  and his four sons, appellants 1  to  5respectively,  in  the	court of the  Subordinate  Judge  ofDevakottai, and they have been brought to this Court with  acertificate  granted by the High Court of Madras under	Art.133 of the Constitution.  The principal appeal in this groupis  Civil Appeal No. 112 of 1955 and the questions which  itraises for our decision relate to the validity of the  awardmade  by  the  arbitrators to whom the	matters	 in  disputebetween	 the  parties  were referred  pending  the  present-litigation.  It would, however, be convenient at the  outsetto state broadly the material facts leading to the suit	 andindicate  the  genesis	and nature of  the  five  respectiveappeals.  The	appellants   and  the  respondent  belong   to	 theNattukottai  Chettiar  community and their family  which  isaffluent  had  extensive money-lending	business  in  Burma.Chidambaram  Chettiar,	the father of appellant	 1  and	 therespondent,  died  on August 20, 1926.	At the time  of	 hisdeath the respondent was an212infant	6  years  of  age.  Appellant  1  had  already	beenassociated with his father in the management of the businessand on his father's death he became the	     manager of	 thefamily and took charge of its affairs	and  business.	  OnSeptember 6, 1941, the respondent gave notice to appellant 1calling	 upon  him  to	effect a  partition  and  to  renderaccounts of his management and the properties of the family.This  demand  was not complied with and	 so  the  respondentinstituted the present suit on September 24, 1941. According to the plaint the assets of the family  consistedof  immoveable properties in India which was then  describedas British India and in Pudukottai, an Indian State.   Theseconsisted of Items Nos, 1 to 12 and Item No. 13 respectivelyin  Sch.   'A'.	 The jewels and moveables belonging  to	 thefamily were set out in Sch.  'B', whereas two  money-lendingfirms  which  the family owned and conducted at	 Minhla	 andSitkwin	 in  Burma  were set out in Schs.  ' D '  and  'E  'respectively.	The plaint further alleged that	 ChidambaramChettiar  had entered large amounts belonging to the  familyin,  the  names	 of the members of the family  in  what	 arecalled	Thanathu  maral	 accounts  and	these  amounts	wereinvested  in various firms or lent to  several	individuals.The  total of these investments came to about Rs.  15,00,000described in Sch.  'C'.	 The assets thus described in  Schs.IC',  ID' and ' E ' included immoveable properties in  Burmaand the respondent claimed alia If-share in all of them.  Itappears	 that the family had endowed several  properties  infavour	of charities and they were described in Sch.  '	 F'.The  respondent claimed that in effecting partition  betweenthe parties a scheme should be framed for the management  ofthe said respective charities.	According to the  respondentappellant I had in the course of his management	 manipulatedaccounts and had in fact misappropriated large amounts,	 andso he claimed an account from appellant 1. That in brief  isthe  nature  of	 the claim made by  the	 respondent  in	 hisplaint. At  the date of the suit appellants 3 to 5 were minors	 andthey  were  represented by appellant 1. It  appears  that  awritten statement was filed by appellant 1 for213himself	 and  as  guardian of his minor sons  in  which	 therelationship  of  the respondent and his half-share  to	 thefamily properties were admitted.  Several contentions  were,however,  raised with reference to the properties  availablefor partition.	It was alleged that Items Nos. 10 and 11  inSch.   'A'  were  dedicated  to	 charity  and  as  such	 notdivisible  and that Item No. 3 was being used as  a  school.The written statement referred to some more properties whichhad not been included in the plaint though they were  liableto partition.  In regard to the jewels and moveables it	 wascontended  that several items not belonging to	the  family,and some not even 'in existence, bad been shown in the	saidschedule.  It was also alleged that some of the jewels shownin  the said schedule belonged to the several appellants  astheir separate property.  Then as regards the Thanathu maralaccounts  the  appellants  gave a detailed  history  of	 theamounts	 and  their investments.  It was admitted  that	 thesaid  amounts belonged to the family though the	 investmentshad  been made in the names of the different members of	 thefamily.	 It was, however, urged that the total value of	 theassets	enumerated in Sch.  'C ' would be only Rs.  9,00,000and  not  Rs. 15,00,000 as alleged by the  respondent.	 Therespondent's case that appellant I had manipulated  accountsand  misappropriated  family funds was denied,	and  it	 wasurged  that for the purpose of partition the assets  of	 thefamily as they stood on the date of the partition should  betaken  into account.  The appellants also pleaded  that	 thecourt	had  no	 jurisdiction  to  divide   the	  immoveableproperties situated in Burma.  According to them there was aspecial	 practice  obtaining  among  the  families  of	 theNattukottai Chettiar community according to which  appellantI  was entitled to a decent remuneration for the  managementof  the joint family business and properties.  According  toanother custom pleaded by the appellants it was alleged thatprovision  had	to  be made for future	Seermurais  for	 theunmarried  daughters  of the family.  Broadly  stated  thesewere the pleas raised by appellants 1 and 3 to 5.  Appellant2 who was a major filed a separate written214statement generally adopting the written statement filed  byappellant  1  ; nevertheless he put the	 respondent  to	 thestrict proof of the allegations made by him in the plaint insupport of his claim.In  reply to the contentions thus raised by  the  appellantsthe respondent filed a reply.  In this statement he  pleadedinter alia that there was a custom amongst the community fora  member  of the joint family to set up a  separate  familyafter marriage and that monies drawn by him thereafter wouldbe entered in a separate account called Pathuvazhi and	thatat  the time of the partition the amounts appearing  in	 thesaid  account  would  be debited to the	 said  member.	 Therespondent claimed that account should be made in accordancewith  this custom in affecting the partition of the  family.On  these pleadings the learned trial judge  framed  fifteenissues.It  appears that an attempt Was made by the parties to	havetheir  disputes	 referred  to arbitration,  and	 in  fact  areference  was	made  on April 6,  1943,  but  this  attemptproved,	 abortive  and	the suit was set  down	for  hearingbefore	the  court, and the hearing  actually  commenced  onDecember   11,	1943.	Meanwhile,  on	December  6,   1943,appellant  2 filed an application under 0. 8, r. 9,  of	 theCode of Civil Procedure for permission to file an additionalwritten	 statement.  This application was numbered as I.  A.No. 988 of 1943.  It would be relevent to refer to the	pleawhich  appellant 2 sought to raise by this application.	  Healleged that the deceased Chidambaram Chettiar bad set aparton March 25, 1925, two sums of money of Rs. 2,10,251-4-0each separately in the name of the respondent and  appellantI  so  as to vest the same in them forthwith, and  he  urgedthat  these  amounts  and  their  accretions  were  not	 theproperties  of the family liable to partition in  the  suit.This application was opposed by the respondent.	 On December14, 1943, the trial judge dismissed the said application  onthe  ground that it sought to raise a new  and	inconsistentplea  and that had been really inspired by appellant  1.  OnDecember 29, 1943, the learned judge delivered his  judgmentin the suit and it was followed by a preliminary decree.215Against	 this decision three appeals were  preferred  beforethe  High Court of Madras.  A. S. No. 115 of 1948 was  filedby appellant 2 and No. 199 of 1944 by appellants 1, 3 to  5,whereas A. S. No. 499 of 1944 was  filed by  the respondent.It appears that under his appeal No. 115 of 1944,  appellant2 made an application for stay of further proceedings beforethe  Commissioner  (C.M.P.  No.	 1402  of  1944).   On	thispetition  the High Court ordered that there was no  need  tostay  all  proceedings before the Commissioner and  that  itwould be enough if the passing of the final decree alone wasstayed.	  As a result of this order interim stay  which	 hadbeen granted ex parte was vacated.  After the final order onthis  application was passed the Commissioner commenced	 hisenquiry, but before the enquiry could make any progress	 theparties decided to refer their disputes for arbitration. Accordingly on July 18, 1944, a joint application was filedby  the	 parties before the trial judge	 requesting  him  torefer  to  the arbitration of Mr. VE.  RM.   AR.  RamanathanChettiar  of  Kandanoor	 and  RM.   AN.	 S.  RM.   ChellappaChettiar  of Kothamangalam " all matters in dispute  in	 thesuit and all matters and proceedings connected therewith  ".An application under 0. 32, r. 7, was also filed since threeof  the	 parties to the dispute were minors.   On  July	 21,1944,  the  trial  court allowed the  said  application	 andcertified that the proposed reference was for the benefit ofthe  minors and so referred " the matters in dispute in	 thesuit  and all matters and proceedings connected therewith  "for  determination  by	the two	 arbitrators  named  by	 theparties. The  arbitrators then began their proceedings and  made  aninterim	 award on August 1, 1944.  It was followed by  theirfinal award on December 6,1944.	 This award was filed in thetrial court. On January 3, 1945, the appellants filed a petition (I.  A.No.  18	 of  1945)  under  ss.	30  and	 31  of	 the  IndianArbitration  Act  (hereinafter	called the  Act).   By	thispetition  the appellants urged that the award should be	 setaside  on  the grounds enumerated by them in  the  petition.Their case was that the reference to arbitration216had been brought about by coercion and undue influence, thatthe arbitrators had not held any proper Chettiar enquiry andthat  they  were  partial and biased.  Thus  the  award	 wassought to be set aside on the ground that the reference	 wasbad and that the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct.	 Thevalidity  of the award	was- also challenged on	 the  groundthat' both the reference and the award were invalid  becausethey contravened the principle of private international	 lawthat  courts  in one country would have no  jurisdiction  toadjudicate  on	title to immoveable property situated  in  aforeign country or to direct its division; the reference andthe  award dealt with immoveable properties in Burma and  sothey  were invalid.  The appellants further  contended	thatthe  reference	to  arbitration was opposed  to	 the  orderspassed by the High Court in C.M.P. No. 1402 of 1944, and  assuch it was invalid. This  application  was	 resisted  by  the  respondent.	  Hetraversed  all	the allegations made by the  appellants	 andclaimed	 that  a  decree in terms of  the  award  should  bepassed.	  At the hearing of this petition no  oral  evidencewas led by the parties; they were content to base their caseon the documents produced on the record and on points of lawraised by them. The  trial  judge rejected the appellants' case  about	 thealleged	 misconduct of the arbitrators.	 He also found	thatthere was no substance in the contention that the  referencewas  the  result  of undue influence or	 coercion.   He	 wassatisfied that the arbitrators had made a proper enquiry andthat the award was not open to any objection on the  merits.He,  however,  held that the reference	to  the	 arbitratorswhich  included	 matters in dispute in	the  suit  comprisedquestions  of title in relation to immoveable properties  inBurma,	and so it was without jurisdiction and invalid.	  Inhis opinion the reference also included the dispute relatingto  the sums of Rs. 2,10,251-4-0 which had been	 entered  inthe   Thanathu	maral  accounts	 of  appellant	1  and	 therespondent  and that this part of the reference	 contravenedthe  order  passed by the High Court in C.M.P. No.  1402  of1944.  He thus upheld these two217contentions  raised  by	 the appellants and  set  aside	 thereference and the award.  It was against this order that therespondent preferred C.M.A. No. 210 of 1946. The High Court has allowed the respondent's appeal.  It hasconfirmed the findings of the trial court in respect of	 thepleas  raised by the appellants as to the misconduct of	 thearbitrators  and as to the invalidity  of  the	reference onthe  ground  that it was the result of	coercion  and  undueinfluence.  It has, however, reversed the conclusions of thetrial  court that the reference and the award  were  invalidinasmuch  as they related to immoveable properties in  Burmaand  contravened  the stay order passed by the	High  Court.The  High Court has construed the order by  which  referencewas  made to the arbitrators in the present  proceedings  aswell as the award and has held that they are not open to  bechallenged  on	either	of  the two  grounds  urged  by	 theappellants.   It was also urged before the High	 Court	thatthe  order of reference was invalid because under s.  21  ofthe  Act,  the	trial court was not competent  to  make	 thereference;  this contention has been negatived by  the	HighCourt.	 In  the result the High Court has  found  that	 thereference and the award were valid and it has directed	thata  decree  should be passed in terms of the  award.   It  isagainst	 this  decision that Civil Appeal No.  112  of	1955arises;	 and,  as we have already mentioned,  the  questionswhich it raises relate to the validity of the award on whichthe  two  courts  have differed.  Before we  deal  with	 themerits	of  these points, however, we may indicate  how	 theother appeals arise. In  A. S. No. 115 of 1944 filed by appellant 2	 before	 theHigh Court the appellant presented Miscellaneous ApplicationC.M.P. No. 2374 of 1946 under 0. 23, r. 3, for an order thatthe  interim  award (Ex.  P. 15) passed by  the	 arbitratorswhich  had been signed by all the parties in token of  theirconsent	 should	 be  treated as a compromise  and  a  decreepassed	in  accordance with it under 0. 23, r. 4.  The	HighCourt  has observed that in view of its decision  in  C.M.A.No. 210 of 1946 it was really unnecessary to pass any  orderin  this  appeal; but it thought that since the	 matter	 waslikely to go 28218in appeal to this Court it would be better to make a  formalorder  and direct that a decree in terms of  the  sayinterimaward  should  be  drawn under 0. 23,  r.  3.  Against	thisdecision the appellants- have preferred Civil Appeal No. 116of 1955 in this Court. The appellants had made a similar application in A. S.	 No.199 of 1944 and it was numbered as C.M.P. No. 3273 of  1946.The  High  Court has allowed this  application	for  similarreasons and its decision has given rise to Civil Appeal	 No.115 of 1955.  In  the trial court the appellants had filed	two  similarapplications  under 0. 23, r. 3; but they had been  rejectedby  the	 trial	court; these orders had given  rise  to	 twoappeals in the High Court, C.M.A. No. 661 of 1946 and C.M.A.No.  49 of 1947.  The High Court has allowed  these  appealsand has ordered that a decree in terms of compromise  shouldbe passed under 0. 23, r.     3.  Against  the	orders	thuspassed by the High Court in   these   two   appeals,   CivilAppeals Nos. 113 and 114 of   1955, have been filed in	thisCourt.	 That  is  the	genesis	 and  nature  of  the	foursubsidiary appeals in the group.  We will now revert to	 thepoints	which arise for our decision in the principal  CivilAppeal No. 112 of 1955.The first ground on which the validity of the reference	 andthe award is challenged is based on the assumption that	 thereference  involved  the  determination	 of  the  title	  toimmoveable  properties	situated in Burma  and/or  that	 theaward  has actually determined the said question  of  title.The  appellants	 contend  that there can be  no	 doubt	thatcourts	in  this country have no jurisdiction  to  determinequestions  of title in respect of immoveable  properties  inforeign	 countries  or to direct a division  thereof.	Thisposition is not and cannot be disputed.	 The rule of law  onthis subject has been thus stated by Dicey: "The courts of aforeign country have no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon	 thetitle  or  the	right to the possession	 of  any  immoveableproperty  not situate in such country."(1) It is also  urgedthat where a court has no jurisdiction to determine any (1) Dicey's " Conflict of Laws ", 6th Ed., pp. 141 and 348.219matter	in  controversy	 such as the question  of  title  inrespect	 of  the  foreign  immoveable  property	 it  has  nojurisdiction  to  refer	 it for	 the  determination  of	 thearbitrators.   This  position  also is	not  and  cannot  bedisputed.   The	 appellants  further  argued  that  if	 thereference  includes  properties	 over which  the  court	 hadjurisdiction  as  well	as  those  over	 which	it  had	  nojurisdiction the whole of the reference becomes invalid	 andin such a case it is not permissible to separate the invalidpart  of  the  reference  from that  which  is	valid.	 Thecorrectness   of   this	 contention  is	 disputed   by	 therespondent; but, for the purpose of the present appeal,	 therespondent is prepared to argue on the assumption that	eventhis  contention is well-founded.  The respondent's case  isthat  neither the reference nor the award purports  to	dealwith any immoveable property in Burma; and so the  challengeto the validity of the reference and the award on the  legalpoints	raised	by the appellants cannot  succeed.   It	 is,therefore, necessary to examine the reference and the  awardand  decide  whether  the factual  assumption  made  by	 theappellants  in	urging	their  legal  grounds  against	 thevalidity of both the reference and the award is justified.In  dealing  with  this question it is	necessary  first  toascertain the scope of the request made by the parties	whenthey  applied  to  the trial court for	reference  of  theirdispute	 to arbitration.  In their application (Ex.  P.	 12)the  parties  have  briefly  indicated	the  nature  of	 therespondent's claim and have stated that the dispute  betweenthe  parties was then pending before the High Court  in	 theform of three appeals preferred by them.. Then it is averredthat  appellants 3 to 5 are minors but it is added that	 theproposed  reference  was for their benefit  and	 so  anotherapplication  had  been	separately  made  for  the   court'ssanction  to  the  said reference in  respect  of  the	saidminors.	   The	parties	 desire	 and  agree  ",	  said	 theapplication,  that all matters in dispute in this  suit	 andall  matters and proceedings connected therewith  should  bereferred  to  the  unanimous  decision	of  the	 two   namedarbitrators".  They had also agreed that they would abide bythe220unanimous   decision  of  the  arbitrators  and	  that	 thearbitrators should be empowered to partition the  propertiesof  the	 joint family between the parties and  if  necessaryalso  by  payment of monies to equalise the shares  and,  totake  the. necessary accounts and to decide all	 matters  indispute	 between  them	including costs.   The	parties	 hadfurther agreed to produce their own papers and copies beforethe  arbitrators  and  that if the  arbitrators	 needed	 anyfurther	 papers, accounts or documents which had been  filedin   court  they  should  be  authorised  to   require	 theCommissioner to send them to the arbitrators.  It is on thisapplication that the court made the order that " all mattersin  dispute  in this suit and all  matters  and	 proceedingsconnected  therewith " be referred for determination to	 thetwo  named  arbitrators, The question which arises  for	 ourdecision  is: What was the scope and extent of	the  mattersthus  referred	to arbitration ?  In other words,  did	thisorder  of  reference include the respondent's  claim  for  ashare in the immoveable properties in Burma ? The appellants contend that the order of reference includesnot  only  all matters in dispute in the suit but  also	 allmatter,-, and proceedings connected therewith and their caseis  that  these	 clauses  are wide  enough  to	include	 therespondent's claim for a share in the immoveable  propertiesin  Burma.  There is no doubt that the latter clause  refersto matters and proceedings connected with the suit; but	 theappellants'  contention	 can be upheld only if it  is  shownthat the respondent's claim for a share in the properties inBurma  was  connected  with the suit or was a  part  of	 thematters connected with it at the material time. What then was the nature and extent of the dispute  betweenthe  parties  at  the material time?   Let  us	examine	 thepleadings  of  the parties, the issues framed by  the  trialcourt, the decision of the trial court on them and ascertainthe nature and extent of the subsisting dispute between themwhich was pending in the High Court in the three  respectiveappeals.   There  is  no  doubt	 that,	in  his	 plaint	 therespondent had claimed a share in the immoveable  propertiesin221Burma.	In regard to this claim his allegation was that withthe  aid of the advances made by the family  firms  in Burmaand  of	 those in the accounts described as  Thanathu  maralaccounts, lands and other properties had been purchased	 andthey formed part of the assets of the firms and the Thanathumaral accounts.	 The written statement filed by appellant  1admitted that there were Thanathu maral transactions  duringthe lifetime of Chidambaram Chettiar and that all sums takenfrom  the  family assets, though invested for  the  sake  ofconvenience  in the name of one or the other member  of	 thefamily,	 belonged  to  the family and had  been	 treated  asfamily	assets.	 According to the appellants,  however,	 theextent	 of  the  Thanathu  maral  transactions	  had	beenexaggerated  by	 the respondent.  On the whole	the  writtenstatement clearly admitted that the branches of appellants 1to  5 on the one hand and of the respondent and his  son  onthe  other  are	 entitled to a, half-share  each;  but	theypleaded that the said shares have to be allotted only  aftermaking some provisions out of the joint family funds for thepayments of the future Seermurai etc., due to the  unmarrieddaughters in the family.  They also contended that the courthad  no jurisdiction to divide the immoveable properties  inBurma  though  it  was	admitted  that	the  respondent	 wasentitled  to  the relief in respect of the division  of	 thefamily	assets as set forth in the written statement.	Thiswritten	 statement  was adopted by appellant 2 though  in  ageneral	 way be denied the allegations in the  plaint  whichhad  not  been	expressly admitted by  him  in	his  writtenstatement.   It	 would thus be seen  that  the	respondent'sshare  in the family properties was not in dispute  nor	 washis  share in the properties in Burma seriously	 challenged.The only plea raised in respect of the latter claim was thatthe  court bad no jurisdiction to deal with it.	 This  stateof  the pleadings in a sense truly reflected the  nature  ofthe  dispute between the parties.  It is common ground	thatthe  family is a trading family and there could be no  doubtthat  the  assets of the family were  partible	between	 themembers of the family.	It was on these222 pleadings  that the trial judge framed fifteen	 issues	 andset  down  the case for hearing.At  this  stage	 appellant 2  wanted to	 go  back  upon	 hiswritten	 statement by making further and  additional  pleas.That  is  why he filed an application (Ex.  P.	3  (a))	 forleave  to file an additional written statement.	 As we	havealready mentioned this application was rejected by the trialcourt;	but  for  our  present purpose	it  is	relevant  toconsider  the  pleas  which  he	 wanted	 to  raise  by	thisadditional statement.  He wanted to contend that the amountsset  apart  in	favour of appellant  1	and  the  respondentrespectively  by their father remained	invested  distinctlyand  separately	 during his lifetime and that  in  law	theyought to be taken to be separate properties belonging to thetwo  respective	 branches.  In other words,  the  plea	thussought to be raised was that by reason of the investment  ofthe  amounts in the names of appellant 1 and the  respondentrespectively the said amounts constituted the individual andseparate  monies  of the respective persons and	 became	 theseparate  properties  of their branches.  Appellant  2	thusraised	a  Contention  about the character  of	the  amountsinvested  by  the deceased Chidambaram Chettiar in  the	 twonames  of his sons respectively and in that sense the  issuewhich  he sought to raise was in regard to the character  ofthe  amounts themselves.  It had no direct reference to	 anyimmoveable properties in Burma.Since the trial court refused to allow appellant 2 to  raisethis additional plea he proceeded to try the issues  alreadyframed	by him, and, as we have already indicated,  he	heldthat  he  had  no  jurisdiction	 to  deal  with	  immoveableproperties in Burma, and appointed a Commissioner to make anenquiry	 in  pursuance	of  the	 preliminary  decree.	 Thepreliminary decree in terms excluded from its operation	 theimmoveable  properties	in Burma as well as  in	 the  IndianState	of  Pudukottai.	  In  the  proceedings	before	 theCommissioner parties agreed that the properties in Burma andPudukottai  should be left out of account and so no  disputeappears223to  have  been raised before him that the  accounts  of	 thefirms in Burma should be taken by him. In the appeal filed by the respondent against thispreliminary decree he did not challenge the decision  of thetrial  court  that  he	had no	jurisdiction  to  deal	withimmoveable  properties	out of British	India.	 His  appealraised some other points which it is unnecessary to mention.This fact is very significant.	It shows that the respondentaccepted the finding of the trial court and did not want theHigh Court to consider his claim for a share in the excludedproperties.   In the appeal preferred by appellant 2 he	 hadurged  inter alia that the trial court should  have  allowedhim to raise the additional pleas and it appears that he hadalso raised a point that the trial court bad no jurisdictionto direct a division of the moveable properties of the firmsin  Burma.   The grounds taken by appellant 2  in  his	memoleave  no  manner of doubt that none of the pleas  which  hesought	to raise before the High Court had any reference  toimmoveable  properties	in Burma.  It is,  therefore,  clearthat  in none of the three appeals pending before  the	HighCourt  was  it	urged  by  any	party  that  the  immoveableproperties  in Burma should be brought within the  scope  ofthe partition suit.The application made by the parties for arbitration to whichwe  have  already  referred has	 deliberately  set  out	 thependency  of  the  three appeals in the High  Court  at	 thematerial  time	in  order  to  furnish	the  background	 fordetermining  the extent and nature of the dispute which	 wassought	to  be referred to  arbitration.   The	respondent'sclaim  for a share in the properties outside India had	beennegatived  by the trial court and the decision of the  trialcourt had become final because it was not challenged by	 therespondent and so there can be no doubt that the said  claimwas-  outside  the  purview of the dispute  which  was	thenpending between the parties in the High Court.	It was	not,and could not have been, intended to be a matter in  disputein   the  suit	between	 the  parties  or  any	matter	 andproceedings connected therewith.  Therefore we are satisfiedthat the High224Court  was  right  in  coming to  the  conclusion  that	 thereference  did	not  include any claim with  regard  to	 theimmoveable properties in Burma.It  is,	 however, urged that the reference did	include	 thepoints	 raised	 by  appellant	2  in  his   appeal   beforethe High Court; and that no doubt is true.  But what is	 theeffect	of the said grounds raised by appellant 2 ?   As  wehave already pointed out the said grounds did not raise	 anyquestion about immoveable properties in Burma.	They  merelyraised a dispute about the character of amounts invested  bythe deceased Chidambaram Chettiar in the names of  appellant1  and	the respondent respectively.  It was  a	 dispute  inregard to monies or moveables and so appellant 2 was  drivento contend that the trial court had no jurisdiction to	dealwith  such moveables.  This contention is obviously  withoutsubstance and has not been raised either in the courts belowor  before  us.	  The  only  argument  raised  is  that	 thereference included claims in regard to immoveable propertiesin Burma and this argument cannot be supported on the groundof the pendency of the appeal by appellant 2 before the HighCourt because, even if the said appeal was allowed, it couldhave  no  reference to any immoveable properties  in  Burma.Thus the attack against the reference on the ground that  itincluded immoveable properties in Burma must fail. Does the award deal with the said immoveable properties  inBurma  ?  That	is  the next  question	which  falls  to  beconsidered.  -If  it  does, it would  be  invalid  not	onlybecause	  it  purports	to  deal  with	foreign	  immoveableproperties but also for the additional reason that it is  inexcess	of  the terms of reference.  At the hearing  of	 thepresent appeals in this Court Mr. Viswanatha Sastri, for theappellants,  attempted	to  criticise the  decision  of	 thearbitrators on several grounds; but we did not allow him  toraise  any  contentions	 against the  merits  of  the  awardbecause both the courts below have rejected the	 appellants'objections  in that behalf, and in view of their  concurrentfindings it would not be open to the appellants to raise thesame points over again.	 That is why we would225confine	 ourselves  to those portions of  the  award  which,according  to  the  appellants, show  that  the	 arbitratorsdivided the immoveable properties in Burma and Pudukottai.In regard to the properties in Pudukkottai this is what	 theaward  says  in	 paragraph  3:	"  The	plaintiff    and thedefendants  shall  enjoy  them	in  equal  halves  as  undermarukkal  kuttu.  In proportion to their respective  shares.the  plaintiff	shall  pay one-half of	the  taxes  and	 thedefendants  1  to  5 the other half.   Since  the  aforesaidproperty  has  been situate in Pudukottai State it  has	 notbeen  divided on the good and bad qualities of the soil;  ifit is necessary, the plaintiff and the defendants shall haveit divided in equal halves later on when required."In  regard  to the properties in Burma, paragraph 1  of	 theaward  recites that " after communications are	restored  inBurma  the plaintiff and the defendants have to	 divide	 thefirms in Burma at the places Minhla and Sitkwin belonging tothem  and  the	lands,	godowns,  homes,  gardens  and	 theproperties  items,  bank  deposits,  jewels,  movables,	 allassets etc., and the subsequent income attached thereto intotwo  halves; and the plaintiff has to take one half and	 thedefendants  the other, half ". Paragraph 2 adds	 that  sinceboth   the  parties  have  agreed  to  divide  the   movableproperties   attached  to  the	said  shop  later   on	 thearbitrators had not divided them.  The award has also statedthat  the sale deeds at Alagapuri and relating to the  landsattached  to the said firms have been divided into two	lotsand for the purpose of safe custody two lists known as Schs.A and B have been prepared and both parties have signed	 thelists.	Later on, at the time of division of the said lands,firms  and  assets,  all the documents	shall  be  collectedtogether  and the parties shall take the documents  relatingto their respective shares. The arbitrators then dealt with the additional plea  soughtto  be raised by appellant 2, and in substance they  refusedappellant  2  permission  to raise that	 plea  because	theythought that having regard to the conduct of the parties  itwas futile to raise such a plea.  That is why they  directedthat " the plaintiff's branch29226and  the defendant's branch have shares in all	the  amountsand  they added that their conduct fully justified the	saidconclusion and the parties agreed to it.  " It  is these portions of the award on which the  appellantsbased	their  contention  that	 immoveable  properties	  inPudukottai   and   Burma  have	been  dealt  with   by	 thearbitrators.   In our opinion this contention is  not  well-founded.   What the arbitrators have done is to	 divide	 theproperties which were then the subject-matter of the disputebetween the parties; and having done so they have  indicatedwhat  the legal position of the parties would be in  respectof the properties outside the dispute.	In appreciating	 theeffect	of the words used in the award we must bear in	mindthat  the  arbitrators	were laymen not	 familiar  with	 thetechnical significance of legal expressions, and so we	mustread  the  relevant  clauses  as a  whole  with	 a  view  todetermine  what	 in effect and substance  they	intended  todecide.	  Now  take  the  recitals  in	the  award  to	 thePudukottai properties.	The award expressly states that	 theproperties  had	 not  been  divided by	them  and  that	 theplaintiff and the defendants shall have them divided when sorequired.  All that the award says is that since the partieshad  separated	and  the  properties  in  suit	before	 thearbitrators  had been actually divided by metes and  bounds,the  two branches shall enjoy the Pudukottai  properties  inequal  halves.	This clause in the award cannot be  said  todivide the said properties or even to determine their sharesin  them.  The shares of the parties in the said  propertieswere  admitted and so the award merely says that as  dividedmembers	 they  will hold and enjoy the properties  half	 andhalf.   Similarly in regard to the properties in Burma the  awardexpressly  states  that	 the said properties  had  not	beendivided and it merely refers to the true legal position thatthey  would  be enjoyed by the two branches half  and  half.The  arrangement proposed by the arbitrators in	 respect  ofthe  immoveable	 properties in Burma  is  very	significant.They merely asked the parties to hold the documents of titlehalf and half for227safe  custody  and  they have added that  when	the  partiesdecide to divide the properties all the documents would haveto  be	brought together and a partition made  according  tolaw.  That again is an	arrangement dictated  by commonsenseand  cannot be said to amount to a decision in any way.	  Itis not as if the award declares the shares of the parties inrespect of the properties.  What it does is no more than  tostate  the true and admitted legal position of the  parties'rights in respect of the said properties.In  this  connection  it would be useful  to  refer  to	 theobservations  made by Viscount Dunedin in Bageshwari  CharanSingh  v.  Jagarnath  Kuari (1).  In  that  case  the  PrivyCouncil	 was called upon to consider the question about	 theadmissibility  of  a petition which was relied	upon  as  anacknowledgment	of liability under s. 19, sub-s. (1) of	 theLimitation Act; and it was urged that the said petition	 wasinadmissible  because it purported or operated to create  ordeclare	 a  right  to immoveable property and  as  such	 wascompulsorily  registrable  under s. 17(1)(b) of	 the  Regis-tration	  Act,	1908.	In  urging  the	 objection  to	 theadmissibility  of  the	petition a large  Dumber  of  Indiandecisions  were cited before the Privy Council dealing	withthe word " declare " used in s. 17(1)(b) of the RegistrationAct,  1908;  and  it was apparent that	there  was  a  sharpconflict  of  views.   In  Sakha  Ram  Krishnaji  v.   MadanKrishnaji (2), West, J., had observed that the word  declarein  s.	17(1)(b) is placed along with 'create'	 'assign'  'limit  ' or ' extinguish ' a right, title or  interest,	 andthese words imply a definite change of legal relation to theproperty  by an expression of will embodied in the  documentreferred  to, and had added that he thought that is  equallythe case with the word "declare".  On the other hand certainother decisions had construed the word " declare " liberallyin a very wide sense and it was on those decisions that	 theobjection against admissibility of the petition was founded.In  repelling  the  objection  Lord  Dunedin  observed	that"though the word(1)  (1932) I.L.R. 11 Pat. 272; 53 I.A. 130.(2)  (1881) I.L.R. 5 Bom. 232.228  "  declare  "	 might be given a  wider  meaning  they	 aresatisfied that the view originally taken by West, J.,  isright.	 The distinction is between a mere recital  of	factand  something	which  in itself  creates  a  title."  Theseobservations  assist  us  in deciding  the  question  as  towhether	 the  impugned	portions of the	 award	declare	 theparties'  rights  in immoveable properties in the  sense  ofdeciding them as points or matters referred to	arbitration.In  our opinion, the High Court was right in answering	thisquestion against the appellants.  Therefore the award is notopen to the attack that it deals with immoveable  propertiesout of the jurisdiction of the court.That  takes  us	 to the next ground of	attack	against	 thevalidity  of  the  award.   It	is  urged  that	 the   awardcontravenes  the order passed by the High Court on the	staypetition filed before it by appellant 2. There is,  however,no  substance in this contention.  All that the	 High  Courtdirected was that pending the final decision of the  appealsbefore	it a final decree should not be drawn.	In fact	 theHigh  Court  clearly observed that there was no	 reason	 forstaying all the proceedings pending before the Commissioner.That  is  the  usual order made in such	 cases,	 and  it  isdifficult to appreciate how this order has been	 contravenedby  reference to arbitration or by the award  that  followedit.   The  award is not and does not purport to be  a  finaldecree	in  the proceedings and the proceedings	 before	 thearbitrators  substantially correspond to the proceedings  ofthe  enquiry  which the Commissioner would  have  held	evenunder  the  order  of  the  High  Court.   Therefore   this,contention must also fail. We must now consider another objection against the validityof the reference which has been seriously pressed before us.It  is	urged that the reference and the award	are  invalidbecause the trial court was not competent to make the  orderof reference under s. 21 of the Act.  Section 21 reads thus:  " Where in any suit all the parties interested agree	thatany  matter in difference between them in the suit shall  bereferred to arbitration, they229may  at	 any  time before judgment is  pronounced  apply  inwriting to the Court for an order of reference."Two  conditions must be satisfied before an  application  inwriting	 for reference is made.	 All the interested  partiesto  the	 suit  must  agree to obtain  a	 reference  and	 thesubject-matter	of  the	 reference must	 be  any  matter  indifference between the parties in the suit.  When these	 twoconditions are satisfied the application for reference	mustbe made at any time before the judgment is pronounced.	Thusbroadly	 stated the construction of the section presents  nodifficulty.  But when we analyse the implications of the twoconditions and seek to determine the denotation of the	word" court " difficulties arise.  What does the word it  court"mean in this section?  According to the appellants " court "means  the court as defined by s. 2(c) of the Act.  S.	2(c)define,% the " court " inter alia as " a civil court  havingjurisdiction  to decide the questions forming  the  subject-matter	of the reference if the same had been  the  subject-matter	of a suit " ; and this prima facie means  the  trialcourt.	 The argument is that an order of reference  can  bemade only by the trial court and not by the appellate court,and  so there can be no reference after the suit is  decidedand  a	decree	has been drawn up  in  accordance  with	 thejudgment of the trial court.  In the present case a judgmenthad  been  delivered by the trial court	 and  a	 preliminarydecree	had been drawn in accordance with it, and  so  therewas no scope for making any order of reference.	 That is thefirst part of the argument which must be carefully examined.  Does	the  "court" in the context mean the trial  court  ?This  construction cannot be easily reconciled with  one  ofthe conditions prescribed by the section.  After a decree isdrawn  up  in  the trial court and an  appeal  is  presentedagainst it, proceedings in appeal are a continuation of	 thesuit; and speaking generally, as prescribed by s. 107 of theCode  of  Civil Procedure the appellate court  has  all	 thepowers	of the trial court and can perform as nearly as	 maybe  the	 same duties as are conferred and  imposed  on	the-trial court.230 If that be so, during the pendency of the appeal can it notbe  said that matters in difference between the	 parties  insuit  continue	to  be matters in dispute  in  appeal?	 Thedecision of the appeal can materially  affect the nature andeffect	of the decree under appeal ; and there is  no  doubtthat all the points raised for the decision of the appellatecourt can be and often are points in difference between themin the suit; and, in that sense, despite the decision of thetrial  court the same points of difference in suit  continuebetween	 the parties before the appellate court.  If  duringthe pendency of such an appeal parties interested agree thatany  matter in difference between them in the appeal  shouldbe  referred to arbitration the first two conditions of	 thesection	 are,  satisfied.   When  s.  21  was  enacted	 didLegislature intend that during the pendency of the appeal noreference  should be made even if the parties satisfied	 thefirst two conditions prescribed by the section ?In  considering	 this  question it  would  be  relevant	 andmaterial  to  take  notice of the fact	that  prior  to	 thepassing	 of  the Act in 1940 the  longstanding	practice  ofIndian	courts was to refer to arbitration disputes  pendingbefore the appellate court between the respective parties tothe  appeals.	If  the	 object of enacting  s.	 21  was  toprohibit such reference at the appellate stage it would,  asthe  High  Court has observed, cause " a revolution  in	 theexisting practice ". Was such a revolution really intended ?Having	regard to the fact that the words used in s. 21	 aresubstantially  the same as those used in Sch. 11,  paragraph1, of the earlier Code, it would be difficult to to  sustainthe  plea that the enactment of s. 21 was intended to  bringabout  such a violent departure from the existing  practice.If  that had been the intention,of the Legislature it  wouldhave  made appropriate changes in the words used in  s.	 21.There-fore, the word " court " cannot be interpreted to meanonly  the  trial  court	 as  contended	by  the	 appellants.Similarly,  the	 word " suit " cannot be  construed  in	 thenarrow sense of meaning only the suit and not an appeal.  Inour opinion, "court" in s. 21 includes231the  appellate court proceedings before which are  generallyrecognised as continuation of the suit,; and the word " suit"  will	 include such appellate proceed_ ings.	We  may	 addthat whereas s. 41 of the Act is  consistent with  this viewno other section militates against it.The next question is: When can an application for  referencebe made ? The section prescribes that it can be made at	 anytime before the judgment is pronounced.	 It has been  fairlyconceded before us that the word "judgment" cannot refer  tothe  various interlocutory orders and judgments that may  bepassed	during	the hearing of the suit; and so the  word  "judgment" cannot be given the meaning assigned to it by s. 2(9)  of	 the  Code.   It cannot	 mean  in  the	context	 thestatement  given by the judge of the grounds of a decree  ororder.	 It must mean a judgment which finally	decides	 allmatters in controversy in the suit.  Thus it follows that itis open to the parties to apply for a reference at any	timebefore	the  final judgment is pronounced in the  suit.	  Ifthat  be  so, can the parties apply for an  order  referringmatters	 indifference between them even though such  mattersmay  have been covered by interlocutory judgments  deliveredin  the	 meanwhile?   The  appellants  suggest	that  thoughreference to arbitration may be made at any time before	 thefinal  judgment	 is  pronounced the  subject-matter  of	 thereference must be such as is not covered by any decision  ofthe court pronounced in the meanwhile.	This argument  readsthe  word " judgment " as judgment in regard to a matter  indifference between the parties; if a difference between	 theparties has been covered by an interlocutory judgment it canno  longer  be	referred to arbitration; that  is  the	con-tention.   We are not impressed by this contention.  In	 ouropinion	 the  scheme  of the section  does  not	 permit	 theaddition of any words qualifying the word judgment " used init.   The expression " at any time 'before the	judgment  ispronounced  "  is only intended to show the  limit  of	timebeyond	which  no reference can be made, and that  limit  isreached when a final judgment is pronounced.  The  provisionthat " any232matter in difference between the parties in the suit can  bereferred to arbitration " cannot be subjected to the furtherlimitation   that  the	said  matter  can  be  referred	  toarbitration  if	 it is not covered by the  judgment  of	 thecourt.	The effect of the section appears to be that so longas  the	 final judgment is not pronounced by the  court	 anymatter-i. e., some or all the matters-in difference  betweenthe parties can be referred to arbitration provided they areagreed	about  it. If a reference can be made  even  at	 theappellate  stage when all matters in difference between	 theparties	 are  covered  by the final judgment  of  the  trialcourt,	it  is	difficult  to  understand  why	in  allowingreference to be made during the pendency of the suit in	 thetrial  court any further conditions should be  imposed	thatonly  such matters of difference can be referred to  as	 arenot  covered by an interlocutory judgment of the court.	  Wewould accordingly hold that it is open to the trial court torefer  to arbitration any matters of difference between	 theparties	 to  the suit provided they agree and apply  at	 anytime  before the court pronounces its final judgment in	 thesuit.  But  this  construction still leaves one  question  to  beconsidered.   Had  a final judgment been pronounced  by	 thetrial  court  in this case at the time when  it	 passed	 theorder  of  reference ?	It had delivered a  judgment  and  apreliminary decree had been drawn up.' A judgment  deliveredby  a  court  in a partition suit which	 is  followed  by  apreliminary decree cannot be said to be a final judgment  inthe  suit.  Proceedings which parties may take	pursuant  tothe preliminary decree are still a part of the suit, and  itis  only with the passing of the final decree that the	suitcomes  to an end.  As observed by the Privy Council in	JaduNath Roy & Ors. v. Parameswar Mullick & Ors. (1) a partitionsuit in which a preliminary decree has been passed is  stilla  pending suit with the result that the rights	 of  partieswho  are  added	 after the preliminary	decree	have  to  beadjusted at the time of the final decree.  This position  isnot disputed.  Therefore, the fact that a preliminary decreehad been drawn up in the present(1)  (1939-40) 67 1. A. I.233case and it was based upon a judgment delivered by the courtcannot exclude the application of s. 21.  The judgment whichhad  been  delivered  by  the court  not  a  final  judgmentcontemplated  by s. 21.	 The trial  court  would, therefore,have jurisdiction to make the order of reference. There	 is,  however,	another	 fact  which  introduces   acomplication; and that is the pendency of the three  appealsbefore	the  High Court at the material time.	As  we	havealready observed the three appeals which were pending beforethe   High  Court  raised  before  that	 court	matters	  indifference  between  the parties in the suit,  and  to	thatextent	the said matters of difference were  really  pendingbefore	the High Court and not before the trial	 court.	  Insuch  a	 case, which is the court that has  jurisdiction  tomake  the  order of reference?	There is  no  difficulty  inholding that if the suit is pending in the trial court and afinal  judgment	 has not been pronounced by it,	 it  is	 thetrial  court  which  is	 competent  to	make  the  order  ofreference.   Similarly, if a suit has been decided, a  finaljudgment  has been delivered and a decree had been drawn  upby the trial court-and no appeal has been preferred  againstit,  the  matter  is concluded and there  is  no  scope	 forapplying  s.  21  at all.  On the other hand,  if  a  decreedetermining  the suit has been drawn up by the	trial  courtand it is taken to the appellate court, during the  pendencyof  the appeal, it is the appellate court that is  competentto  act under s. 21.  These three cases do not	present	 anydifficulty; but where a preliminary decree has been drawn upand  an	 appeal has been filed against it  the	complicationarises	by reason of the fact that the disputes between	 theparties are legally pending before two courts.	 Proceedingswhich  would  have to be taken between the parties  in	pur-suance	of, and consequent upon, the preliminary decree	 arepending	  before  the  trial  court;  whereas	matters	  indifference  between  the parties which are  covered  by	 thepreliminary  judgment  and  decree are	pending	 before	 theappellate court.  In such a case it may perhaps be logicallypossible to take the view that30234the  arbitration in respect of the disputes in	relation  toproceedings  subsequent	 to the preliminary  decree  can  bedirected   by	the   trial   court,   whereas	 arbitrationin respect of all the matters concluded by the trial   court'spreliminary judgment which are pending before the  appellatecourt can be made by the appellate court; but such a logicalapproach  is not wholly consistent with s. 21 ;	 and  ratherthan help to solve any difficulty it may in practice  createunnecessary complications.  In most cases matters in disputebefore	the trial court in final decree proceedings  are  soinextricably connected with the matters in dispute in appealthat  effective	 arbitration  can be  ordered  only  by	 onereference  and not by two.  We are, therefore,	inclined  tohold  that in a case of this kind where both the courts	 arepossessed of the matters in dispute in part it would be opento either court to make an order of reference in respect  ofall  the  matters  in dispute between the  parties.   It  isargued that on such a construction conflict of decisions mayarise  if two sets of arbitrators may be appointed.   We  donot  think that such a conflict is likely to occur.  If	 theparties	 move  the  trial  court  and  obtain  an  order  ofreference  they would inevitably ask for appropriate  ordersof  withdrawal or stay of the appellate proceedings; if,  onthe  other  hand, they obtain a similar order  of  referencefrom  the  appellate court they would  for  similar  reasonsapply  for stay of the proceedings before the  trial  court.In   the   present  case  proceedings  subsequent   to	 thepreliminary  decree were pending before the trial court	 andso  we must hold that the trial court was competent  to	 actunder  s.  21.	 On  that view	the  objection	against	 thevalidity  of the reference based on the provisions of s.  21cannot succeed.We  may now briefly refer to some of the decisions to  whichour  attention	was invited.  Before the Act was  passed  in1940, the procedure for referring matters in dispute betweenthe parties in pending suits was governed by the  provisionsof Sch. 11 to the Code of Civil Procedure.  There appears tohave  been a consensus of judicial opinion in favour of	 theview  that under Sch. 11, paragraph 1, the  appellate  courtcould make235an  order  of  reference in respect of	matters	 in  disputebetween the parties in an appeal pending before it.  A	noteof dissent had, however, been struck by a Full Bench of	 theCalcutta  High Court in Jugessueur Dey	 v.  Kritartho MoyeeDossee	(1).  In that case the question for  decision  aroseunder the provisions of the Code of 1859 and the Full  Benchheld that an appellate court had no power even by consent ofparties	  to  refer  a	case  for  arbitration	 under	 thearbitration sections of Act VIII of 1859 which applied	onlyto  courts  of	original jurisdiction  nor  was	 such  powerconferred  on  an appellate court by s. 37 of Act  XXIII  of1861.	One of the reasons which weighed with Couch, C.	 J.,who  delivered the principal judgment of the Full Bench	 wasthat  according	 to  him  neither  reason  nor	 conveniencerequired  that	the appellate court should refer a  suit  toarbitration  after the matter had been decided by the  trialcourt.	  Kemp,	 J.,  who  concurred  with   the   decision,apprehended  that  "  if the parties are  allowed  to  refermatters	 to  arbitration  after	 a  case  has  been  finallydisposed  of by a court of justice such a  proceeding  mighttend  to bring lower courts into contempt ". In our  opinionthis apprehension is not well-founded.	Besides it is  well-known  that  when  parties agree to  refer  the	 matters  indispute between them in suit to arbitration they desire thattheir  disputes	 should be disposed of untrammelled  by	 therigid technicalities of the court procedure.  A search for ashort-out  by means of such arbitration sometimes takes	 theparties	 on  a	very long route of litigation  but  that  isanother matter.The  Calcutta  view was dissented from by  the	Madras	HighCourt in Sangaralingam Pillai(2) in somewhat emphatic words."Entertaining  all respect for the opinions of	the  learnedjudges	of  the High Court of Calcutta by whom the  case  ofJugesseur Dey (1) was decided ", observed the judgment, " weare  not convinced by the reason given in the  judgment	 forholding	 that an appellate court might not, with consent  ofthe  parties, refer the matters in dispute in the appeal  toarbitration." Having thus expressed their disapproval(1) 12 Beng.  L.R. 266.	    (2) (1881) I.L.R. 3 Mad. 78.236of  the Calcutta view, the learned judges proceeded  to	 addthat  in  the  case before them an order  of  reference	 wassought	for under s. 582 of the Code of 1877 and  they	heldthat  under the said provision the appellate court is  giventhe  same  powers  and	is  required  to  perform  the	samefunctions as nearly as may be as the trial court.  The	viewthus  expressed	 by the Madras High Court  was	subsequentlyaccepted and approved by the Calcutta High Court in  BhugwanDas  Marwari & Anr. v. Nund Lall Sein & Anr. (1) and  SureshChunder Banerjee v. Ambica Churn Mookerjee (2 ). As we	havealready	 observed, prior to the enactment of the  Act  therehas been a longstanding judicial practice under which ordersof reference have been passed by appellate courts in respectof matters in dispute between the parties in appeals pendingbefore them.The  construction  of  s.  21 has led  to  a  divergence  ofjudicial opinion.  In Abani Bhusan Chakravarty & Ors. v. HemChandra Chakravarty & Or8. (1), the Calcutta High Court	 hastaken the view that the court as defined in the	 ArbitrationAct.  does not include an appellate court  and	consequentlythere is nothing in the Act which enables an appellate courtto  refer  to  arbitration matters in  dispute	between	 theparties.  This decision proceeds on the erroneous view	thatthe it	  court"  in s. 21 means only the court	 as  definedins. 2(c)  and that the considerations based on	 the  powersof   the  appellate court prescribed,by s. 107	are  foreignto   the  Act.	It also appears that the learned  judgesweredisposed to think that if the matter in dispute between	 theparties	 at the appellate stage was referred to	 arbitrationit  might  tend	 to bring the lower  courts  into  contempt.There  is  no doubt that a court cannot	 claim	an  inherentright  to refer a matter in dispute between the	 parties  toarbitration.   Before  a  matter can  be  thus	referred  toarbitration it must be shown that  the court in question hasbeen  statutorily  clothed with the power to  make  such  anorder; and that would depend on the construction of s. 21 ofthe  Act.   The Calcutta High Court has-construed  the	saidsection in(1)  (1886) I.L.R. 12 Cal.  173.  (2) (1891) I.L.R. 18	Cal.507.(3) A.I.R. 1947.  Cal. 93.237substance consistently with the view taken by it in the caseof Jugesseur Dey (1).On the other hand the Patna High Court has taken a  contraryview  in  Thakur  Prasad  v. Baleshwar	Ahir	&  Ors. (9).Jamuar,	 J.,  who delivered the judgment of the	 court,	 hasconsidered  the decision of the Calcutta High Court  in	 thecase of Jugesseur Dey (1) and has dissented from it.  In theAllahabad  High	 Court somewhat conflicting views  had	beenexpressed on different occasions; but, on the question as towhether	 the appellate court can refer a matter	 in  disputebetween	 the parties to arbitration or not, and whether	 thesuit  includes an appeal, the decision of the Full Bench  ofthe  Allahabad	High Court in Moradhwaj v.  Bhudar  Das	 (3)seems  to  be on the same lines as that of  the	 Patna	HighCourt.	 This Full Bench also considered the question  aboutthe applicability of s. 21 to execution proceedings but withthat  aspect  of  the matter we are  not  concerned  in	 thepresent	 appeal.  The Madras High Court has taken  the	sameview  in  Subramannaya Bhatta v. Devadas Nayak &  Ors.	(1).However,  none of these decisions had occasion	to  considerthe  question about the competence of both the	trial  courtand the appellate court in cases where a preliminary  decreehas  been  passed and an appeal has been filed	against	 thesaid decree.  It would thus appear that the majority of	 theIndian High Courts have construed the words 11 suit " and 11court  "  used	in s. 21 liberally  as	including  appellateproceedings  and the appellate court respectively.   In	 theresult	we hold that the trial court was competent  to	makethe reference and its validity is not open to any objection.That leaves only one point to be considered.' It is urged bythe  appellants	 that the arbitrators  acted  illegally	 andwithout	 jurisdiction in directing the Appellants to pay  tothe  respondent	 Rs.  2,682-6-0 by way of  interest  on	 theamounts	 specified in the award up to December 5, 1944,	 andfrom  that  date at the rate of 5as. per cent.	per  mensem,thus imposing on(1)  12 Beng. L.R. 266.	 (3)  A.I.R. 1955 All. 353.(2)  A.I.R. 1954 Pat. 106. (4)	   A.I.R. 1955 Mad. 693.238the   appellants a total liability of Rs.  2,36,782-11-9.Theappellants have also been directed to pay future  intereston  the	 same amount at 8as. per cent. per mensem  from	 thesaid date until the date of payment. This argument is  basedsolely	on the observations made by Bose, J., who  deliveredthe  judgment of this Court, in Seth Thawardas	Pherumal  v.The  Union of India (1).  It appears that in that  case	 theclaim  awarded	by  the	 arbitrators  was  a  claim  for  anunliquidated  sum to which Interest Act of 1839	 applied  asinterest  was otherwise not payable by law in that  kind  ofcase.	Dealing	 with the contention  that  the	 arbitratorscould not have awarded interest in such a case Bose, J., setout four conditions which must be satisfied before  interestcan  be	 awarded under the Interest Act, and  observed	thatnone  of them was present in the case; and so  he  concludedthat  the arbitrator had no power to allow  interest  simplybecause	 he  thought that the payment was  reasonable.	 Thealternative  argument urged before this Court that  interestcould be awarded under s. 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure,1908, was also repelled on the ground that the arbitrator isnot a court within the meaning of the Code nor does the Codeapply  to  arbitrators.	 Mr. Viswanatha Sastri	relies	uponthese  observations  and contends that in no  case  can	 thearbitrators award interest.  It is open to doubt whether theobservations  on which Mr. Viswanatha Sastri relies  supportor  were intended to lay down such a broad  and	 unqualifiedProposition.   However,	 we do not propose  to	pursue	thismatter	any further because the present contention  was	 noturged  before  the High Court.	It was no doubt taken  as  aground	of appeal but from the judgment it is clear that  itwas  not  urged	 at  the  time	of  hearing.   Under   thesecircumstances  we  do  not think we would  be  justified  inallowing this point to be raised before us.  The  result  is that the conclusion reached  by  the	HighCourt  is  right and so its order that a  decree  should  bedrawn in terms of the award must be confirmed.	Civil AppealNo.  112  of 1955 accordingly fails and	 is  dismissed	withcosts.	It is conceded that -if the(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 48.239principal appeal fails it would not be necessary to make anyeffective  orders on the rest of the appeals in this  group.The  said  appeals also fail and are  dismissed;  but  therewould be no order as to costs.			   Appeals dismissed.