PETITIONER:R.   S. A. C. KASI IYER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE  COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,  MYSORE,  TRAVANCORE-COCHINDATE OF JUDGMENT:01/09/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASAYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  210		  1961 SCR  (1) 466ACT:Income-tax-Merger  of  Travancore-Cochin State	with  IndianUnion-Government  of India's power to direct  assessment  orreassessment  proceedings Travancore  Income-tax  RegulationVIII   of   1096  M.  E.-Travancore   Taxation	 on   income(Investigation	Commission)  Act, 1124 M. E. s.	 8,  sub-ss.(2),  (4),(5),	(6)-Opium  and Revenue	Laws  (Extension  ofApplication) Act (33 of 1950), SS. 2, 3, 3(c).HEADNOTE:The  State of Travancore-Cochin merged with Indian Union  onMarch  7,  1949, but the Travancore  Income-tax	 Regulation,VIII of 1096 (Malayalam Era) and the Travancore Taxation  onIncome (Investigation Commission) Act, II24 (Malayalam Era),continued to apply to that area not withstanding the merger.On  August 6, 1949, the Travancore-Cochin Government  passedan  order referring the case of the appellants to  the	com-mission constituted under the 'Travancore Taxation on Income(Investigation	 Commission)   Act,   1124-   M.   E.	 Theinvestigation  commission  held	 by  its  report  that	 theappellants  had made a secret profit in the accounting	year1118 M. E., which was not included in the income-tax  returnsubmitted by the appellants earlier.  The  Travancore-CochinGovernment accepted the report and directed recovery of	 thetax  due by its order dated February 14, 1950.	The  Income-tax   Officer	without	  holding   any	  fresh	  assessmentproceedings, issued a demand notice.The  Union  Legislature enacted the Opium and  Revenue	Laws(Extension  of Application) Act (33 of 1950)  providing	 forextension of certain opium and revenue laws to certain partsof India.  In exercise of the authority under s. 8(2) of thesaid Travancore Investigation Act, read with S. 3, cl.	(c),of  the	 Opium and Revenue Laws (Extension  of	Application)Act, the Government of India, on October 25, 1951,  directedthat appropriate assessment proceedings under the TravancoreIncome-tax  Act be taken against the appellants with a	viewto assess or reassess the concealed income which bad escapedassessment.   The  Commissioner of Income-tax  withdrew	 theearlier	 notice	 of  demand and	 thereafter  the  Income-taxOfficer	  after	  reassessment	proceedings   directed	 theappellants to pay income-tax and super-tax on the  concealedincome.The said orders of the Government of India and of the			    467Income-tax Officer were questioned by the appellants and thematter was referred by the Commissioner of Income-tax to theHigh Court.  The High Court held that the orders in questionwere  valid  orders.  The appellant  appealed  with  specialleave.Held,  that the Government of India had the powers under  s.3(c)   of   the	 Opium	and  Revenue  Laws   (Extension	  ofApplication) Act, 1950, to direct proceedings for assessmentor  reassessment under the Travancore Income-tax  Regulationafter  consideration  of the report made by  the  TravancoreInvestigation Commission.The order passed by the Government of India on February	 14,1950,  was  not inconsistent with the order  passed  by	 theTravancore-Cochin  Government.	Liability to pay  income-taxwould  arise only on an effective order of  assessment.	  Nosuch  order having been passed by the Income-tax Officer  inthe  instant  case,  there  could be  no  doubt	 as  to	 thecompetency of the Government of India to direct	 proceedingsfor  assessment.   There  is  nothing  in  s.  8(2)  of	 theTravancore Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Actwhich states that action may be taken thereunder only  once,and  if an unauthorised direction is given thereunder  thereis nothing which prevents rectification of that order.By  sub-s. (4)'of s. 8 of the Travancore Taxation on  Income(Investigation	 Commission)   Act  the	 findings   by	 theInvestigation  Commission  are final in	 all  assessment  orreassessment  proceedings.  Section 8(2) of the Act  removedthe bar of limitation which arose by s. 25 of the Income-taxAct.   Consequently,  it  was competent	 to  the  Income-taxOfficer to reopen the assessment proceedings notwithstandingany  lapse of time and the previous order of assessment	 didnot operate as a bar to such re. assessment.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 304/56.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly 19, 1954, of the former Travancore.  Cochin High  Courtin Income-tax Reference No. 5 of 1952.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, R. Ganapathy Iyer and G.    Gopalakrishnan,for the appellant.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  September 1. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySHAH   J.-The  Commissioner  of	 Income	 Tax   for   Mysore,Travancore Cochin and Coorg at Bangalore 60468referred under s. 8(5) of the Travancore Taxation on  Income(Investigation	 Commission)  Act,  1124  (Malayalam   Era)-hereinafter  referred to as the Investigation Act read	withs.  113	 of  the Travancore  Income   Tax  Regulation,	1096(Malayalam  Era)-hereinafter referred to as the	 Income	 TaxAct,   the  following  questions  to  the  High	  Court	  ofTravancore-Cochin:(1)  Whether  on the facts and in the circumstances  of	 thecase,  there was any evidence before the commission to	cometo the conclusion to which it came in its report ?(2)  On	 the facts and in the circumstances of the case	 wasthe  order  C.	No. 76 (1) I.T/51 dated	 25-10-1951  of	 theGovernment  of India passed under the provisions of s.	8(2)of   the  Travancore  Taxation	on   Income   (InvestigationCommission) Act read with s. 3 of the Opium and Revenue Laws(Extension  of Application) Act of 1950, a legal  and  validorder ?(3)  Whether  on the facts and in the circumstances  of	 thecase,  the  order  passed  by  the  Income  Tax	 Officer  inpursuance of the directions of the Government under s.	8(2)of   the  Travancore  Taxation	on   Income   (InvestigationCommission) Act, 1124, was a legal andvalid order?The   High  Court  answered  the  three	 questions  in	 theaffirmative.  Against the order of the High Court  answeringthe  reference, this appeal has been preferred with  specialleave.The  facts  which  gave rise to the  reference	are  brieflythese.	 The appellants are a firm of merchants carrying  onbusiness  in  yarn  in	the  Districts	of  Trivandrum,	 andNagercoil   in	 the  Travancore-Cochin	 State.	   For	 theaccounting  year 1118 M. E. (August 17, 1942 to	 August	 16,1943),	the appellants submitted a return under	 the  IncomeTax Act showing a net return of Rs.4,78,5945-0 as assessableincome,	 and they were assessed to income-tax and super	 taxby  the Income Tax Officer on that return.  In 1124  M.	 E.,the Legislature of Travancore enacted the Investigation	 Actconferring  authority upon the Government of  Travancore  toconstitute   a	commission  to	be  called  an	Income	 TaxInvestigation  Commission to investigate and, report on	 allmatters			    469relating to taxation on income, with particular reference tothe  extent  to	 which the existing  law  relating  to,	 andprocedure  for,	 the  assessment  and  collection  of	suchtaxation  was inadequate to prevent evasion thereof  and  toinvestigate in accordance with the pro-visions of the Act incases referred, on or before February 16, 1950, to it  unders.  5. The Government was authorised after consideration  ofthe  report  to direct that proceedings be taken  under	 thevarious Acts including the Income Tax Act, in respect of anyperiod	commencing after August 16, 1939.  By sub-s. (4)  ofs.  8, all assessment or reassessment proceedings  taken  inpursuance  of the direction under sub-s. (2),  the  findingsrecorded  by  the Commission on the case or  on	 the  pointsreferred  to it were, subject to the provisions	 of  sub-ss.(5)  and (6) to be final.  Sub-section (5) of s. 8  providedfor  a	reference to the High Court on any question  of	 lawarising out of any order made by the Commission.The State of Travancore-Cochin merged with the Indian  Unionon   March  7,	1949,  but  the	 Income	 Tax  Act  and	 theInvestigation	Act   continued	 to  apply  to	 that	areanotwithstanding	  the  merger.	 On  August  6,	 1949,	 theGovernment  of Travancore-Cochin passed an  order  referringthe   case   of	 the  appellants  to  the   Commission	 forinvestigation  and  report under s. 5 of  the  InvestigationAct.  On the evidence led before it, the Commission held  byits  report dated February 1, 1950, that the appellants	 hadin  the accounting year 1118 M. E. made a secret  profit  ofRs.   1,31,750	which  was  not	 included  in  the   earlierassessment.   The Commission then proceeded to	compute	 thetax  payable by the appellants and found that the amount  oftax  payable by the appellants on their true income was	 Rs.1,35,736-8-0  and that they were liable to pay	that  amountsubject to credit for the tax, already paid, The  Governmentof  Travancore-Cochin  by  order dated	February  14,  1950,accepted  the  report of the Commission	 and  directed	thatimmediate  steps be taken to recover, under the	 Income	 TaxAct,  from  the	 appellants the tax  due  according  to	 thefindings  recorded  by	the Commission.	  Pursuant  to	thisdirection, the470Income	Tax  Officer, without holding any  fresh  assessmentproceedings, issued on March 15,1950, a demand notice  unders.  42 of the Income Tax Act for the additional tax  imposedon   the  appellants  according	 to  the  findings  of	 theCommission and called upon the appellants to pay Rs. 13,337-13-0  as additional tax.  The Union Legislature	 enacted  onApril  17,  1950, the Opium and Revenue Laws  (Extension  ofApplication)  Act  providing for the  extension	 of  certainopium  and revenue laws to certain parts of India.  By s.  2of  that  Act,	amongst	 others,  the  Taxation	 on   Income(Investigation Commission) Act, XXX of 1947 (enacted by	 theCentral	  Legislature)	and  all  rules	 and   orders	madethereunder  which  were	 in  force  immediately	 before	 thecommencement  of Act XXX of 1950, were extended to the	restof India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir, but by s. 3,in so far as it is material, it was provided that, " If immediately before the commencement of this Act  thereis in force in any part B State other than Jammu and Kashmirany  law (x x x x) corresponding to the Taxation  on  Income(Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 (XXX of 1947); that lawshall  continue	 to  remain in	force.	with  the  followingmodifications,(a)  all  cases	 referred  to or pending  before  the  StateCommission  (by whatever name called) in respect of  mattersrelating  to  taxation	on income  other  than	agriculturalincome,	 shall stand transferred to the	 Central  Commissionfor disposal:Provided ...................................(b)	.....................................(bb).........................................(c)  Any  reference  in the State law, by whatever  form  ofwords,	to  the	 State Government or  the  State  Commissionshall, in relation to income other than agricultural income,be construed as a reference to the Central Government or theCentral Commission, as the case may be;".Purporting  to	exercise  authority under  s.  8(2)  of	 theInvestigation Act read with s. 3, cl. (c), of the Opium	 andRevenue Laws (Extension of Application) Act,			    4711950, the Government of India, on October 25, 1951, directedthat appropriate assessment proceedings under the Income TaxAct be taken against the appellants with a view to assess orreasses	 the  concealed	 income of Rs.	1,31,750  which	 hadescaped	 assessment On January 1, 1952, the Commissioner  ofIncome	Tax  withdrew the notice of demand dated  March	 15,1950,  and  thereafter	the  Income  Tax  Officer  commencedreassessment  proceedings against the appellants and by	 hisorder  dated March 29, 1952, directed the appellants to	 payincome-tax and super tax on the concealed income.At  the instance of the appellants, a reference was made  tothe  High  Court of Travancore-Cochin under s. 8(5)  of	 theInvestigation	Act   and  the	three  questions   set	 outhereinbefore  were referred to that court.  ID the  view  ofthe  High Court, there was evidence on which the  Commissioncould  arrive at the conclusion recorded by it.	  Evidently,the  High Court was incompetent, in answering the  question,to  enter upon a review of the evidence in exercise  of	 itsadvisory  jurisdiction; and Mr. Viswanatha Sastri on  behalfof the appellants has fairly not attempted to challenge	 theanswer recorded by the High Court on the first question.The  Government	 of  India had, on a  consideration  of	 thereport of the Commission, directed on October 25, 1951, thatassessment  proceedings be started against  the	 appellants.Section	 8(2) of the Investigation Act, in so far as  it  ismaterial, reads as follows:"  After  considering the report, our  Government  shall  byorder in writing direct that such proceedings as they  thinkfit under the Travancore Income Tax Act, VIII of  1096......shall  be taken against the person to whose case the  reportrelates	 in respect of the income of any period	 commencing-after the last day of Karkadagom, 1124 (August 16, 1939) andupon  such a direction being given, such proceedings may  be taken   andcompleted  under  the  appropriate  law	  not-withstanding  the  restrictions contained in s.	 25  of	 theTravancore Income Tax Act, VIII of 1960......		 andnotwithstanding any lapse of time or any decision to472a  different  effect  given in the case by  any	 Income	 Taxauthority or Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ".By  s.	3  of  the Opium  and  Revenue	Laws  (Extension  ofApplication)  Act,  XXXIII of 1950,  the  Investigation	 Actcontinued  to  remain in force with  the  modification	thatreference  in the State law to the State Government  was  inrelation  to  income other than agricultural income,  to  beconstrued   as	a  reference  to  the  Central	 Government.Whatever  authority  could be exercised by  the	 Travancore-Cochin	Government  before the enactment of  the  Opium	 andRevenue	 Laws  (Extension of Application) Act,	1950,  couldtherefore,  since the application of that Act, be  exercisedby  the Central Government, and the latter Government  coulddirect	in respect of a case that proceedings for  reassess-ment  be  commenced against a tax payer.  The  case  of	 theappellants  was referred to the Investigation Commission  bythe Travancore-Cochin Government and report was made to thatGovernment  by	the  Commission, and the  authority  of	 theGovernment of Travancore-Cochin to take action on the reporthaving been conferred upon the Central Government by s. 3(c)of  the	 Opium and Revenue Laws (Extension  of	Application)Act,  the Central Government was primal facie  competent  todirect	that proceedings under the Income Tax Act as may  bejustifiable  be	 taken	against	 the  appellants.   But	 Mr.Viswanatha  Sastri  appearing on behalf	 of  the  appellantscontests that view on two grounds:(1)  that  the Central Government may direct proceedings  tobe  taken under the Income Tax Act only if the	report	wasmade by a commission appointed under the Taxation on Income(Investigation	Commission) Act,, XXX of 1947, and not on  areport	made  by a commission appointed by  the	 Travancore-Cochin State under the Investigation Act, and(2)  that the Travancore-Cochin Government having once takenaction	directing  recovery  of	 the tax  due,	it  was	 notcompetent  to  the Central Government under s. 8(2)  of	 theInvestigation Act again to take any action on the report.			    473In  our	 view,	there is no force in either  of	 these	con-tentions.   The expression " the report " in s. 8(2)  refersto  the	 report	 made under s. 8(1) by the  members  of	 theCommission  appointed  by the  Travancore-Cochin  Governmentunder  the Investigation Act and on a consideration of	thatreport, the Government of India has, since the enactment  ofthe  Opium and Revenue Laws (Extension of Application)	Act,1950, power to direct that proceedings for assessment or re-assessment be taken under the Income Tax Act.  On the  plainlanguage used by the Legislature in s. 3(c) of the Opium andRevenue	 Laws  (Extension  of Application)  Act,  1950,	 thecontention   raised   on  behalf  of   the   appellants	  isunsustainable.By  order  dated  February  14,	 1950,	the  Government	  ofTravancore-Cochin had accepted the report of the  Commissionand  had  directed the Board of Revenue	 to  take  necessaryaction	for  recovery  of the amount of	 tax  due  from	 theappellants, and pursuant to that direction, without  holdingproceedings for assessment or reassessment, a demand  noticewas  issued by the Income Tax Officer.	The order passed  bythe  Government of India on October 25, 1951, is not in	 anyway  inconsistent  with the order dated February  14,  1950.Both  the orders direct that steps be taken for recovery  ofthe amount of income tax due from the appellants But, if  asappears	 evident  from	s. 8(4) of  the	 Investigation	Act,liability to pay income-tax could arise only on an effectiveorder  of  assessment,	the Income Tax	Officer	 not  havingassessed the income before the demand notice was issued, theGovernment  of	India, was, in our  judgment,  competent  todirect that proceedings be taken for assessing the liabilityof   the  appellants  to  pay  tax  consistently  with	 theprovisions  of the Income Tax Act.  The order passed by	 theGovernment of India on October 25, 1951, may there. fore  beregarded  as  effectuating the earlier order passed  by	 theTravancore-Cochin  Government on February 14, 1950.  In	 anyevent,	there  IN  nothing in s. 8(2)  which  justifies	 thecontention  that action may be taken thereunder	 only  once.If an unauthorised474direction  is given under s. 8(2), there is nothing in	thatprovision which prevents rectification of that order.By sub-s. (4) of s. 8 of the Investigation Act, the findingsrecorded  by the Commission in cases or points	referred  tothem  are  made	 final in  all	assessment  or	reassessmentproceedings.  The Act has, by sub-s. (2) of s.	  8  removedthe bar of limitation which arose by s. 25 of the Income TaxAct.   It was competent therefore to the Income Tax  Officerto  reopen  the assessment proceedings	notwithstanding	 anylapse  of time and the previous order of assessment did	 notoperate	 as a bar to such reassessment.	 The High Court	 wastherefore in our judgment right in recording its answers  onthe three questions submitted by the Commissioner of  IncomeTax.   In that view, the appeal fails and is dismissed	withcosts.				Appeal dismissed.